

II
e
m
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
BURNS JOHNSON SIDELIGHTS -PMMjs
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3927
May 18, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
ST. MICHAEL'S, PARISH CHURCH
OF MELBOURNE, ENGLAND
r T'HE English Melbourne is the “kitchen
■*- garden” of Derbyshire, for it is situated in
pleasant rolling country, eight miles from
Derby and is the centre of a market-gardening
community (population 4200). Its chief feature
of interest is Melbourne Hall, the birthplace
of Viscount Melbourne, after whom the capital
of Victoria was named.
The town itself has a long and notable
history, and it is recorded in the Domesday
Book- (1085) as a royal manor. A castle was
established there in the 14th century, and it
was there that John Duke of Bourbon, the
most important prisoner taken at the Battle of
Agincourt (1415), was held a prisoner for
nineteen years. His captivity, however, was not
apparently too unpleasant for he was allowed
to incur debts totalling £2OOO. By the 17th
century the fortress was completely in ruins
and only the scantiest remains exist today.
As befits a town possessing such an ancient
past, Melbourne has a splendid parish church.
When it was built it was the largest and most
important church in south Derbyshire. Its
name is St. Michael’s Church, and it is shown
in the accompanying illustration. It was built in
the early years of the 12th century, and is one
of the finest examples of Norman architecture
in Britain. A feature of the interior is the
great horseshoe arches of the nave, which are
supported by pillars as round and as massive
as stately oak-trees.
The church has in addition to its square,
embattled main tower two pointed towers at
its western end, which have the appearance of
Kentish oast-houses.
Near by is the beautiful Queen Anne
mansion—Melbourne Hall—which was built
during the 16th century but considerably
altered and enlarged by Thomas Coke in 1721.
Some of the stones used in the building were
taken from the castle, mentioned above, by
Sir John Coke, who was Secretary-of-State to
Charles I (1625-49). By the marriage of his
daughter to Sir Matthew Lamb, the Melbourne
property changed hands. The second Viscount
Melbourne, Queen Victoria’s first Prime Minis-
ter, was the most notable member of the
Lamb family. His father had taken the title
from the name of the township, and it is after
the second Viscount that the capital of
Victoria was named. A silver trowel displayed
in the Library is the one used by Lord Palmer-
ston in 1853 to lay the foundation-stone of the
Melbourne Athenaeum.
A humble cottage on the estate was the birth-
place in 1808 of Thomas Cook, founder of the
world-wide travel-agency, and benefactor to
his native place.
"No. 246: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


TRAINING PAYS
**. yp u the urge to write and the
express jour thoughts on paper,
SO.OIT S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
earnings from my writing total almost
£7O. (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
4<l had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.B C ” *
“ 'ssr&rsr ffi
plj'for mr'ccuSe"''" “ I ° M wm almost
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereaeh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
'"- —CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —-
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1055) \GE
Let BQOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK-
HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney. Quick
service moderate charges.
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit the metropolitan area
and pay cash. Correspondence
from country or inter-State
invited.
BERKELOUW
THE KINGSWAY,
ROSEVILLE, N.S.W. JYII3I
The Red Page
POWYS ON SCIENCE
Atlantis (MacDonald), John Cowper
Powys’s latest novel, opens at dawn on
the island of Ithaca, which has been
shaken by a mysterious tension ; an
elemental vibration. The scene is a cor-
ridor in the palace of Odysseus, and the
characters present are a house-fly, a
moth, the Sixth Pillar of the corridor,
an olive-shoot, and the club of
Herakles. The youth Nisos and the
middle-aged cowherd Tis are sleeping
on goat-skins on the floor of the corri-
dor.
There is some talk between the fly,
the moth, the olive-shoot and the club
which does not mean anything in par-
ticular and is not meant to. It is de-
signed to establish them as conscious
entities in an atmosphere which vaguely
bodes disaster. Nisos and Tis wake up,
and Nisos, in the colloquial idiom of a
modern schoolboy, exchanges some
palace-gossip with Tis, who talks in the
vernacular of an English yokel.
They go off, and Arsinoe, the Trojan
girl, emerges from the palace secretly
carrying her little carving-tool with
which she has carved a life-size wooden
statue of Hector in the heart of the
Melian Grove, on which she now places
the helmet of Achilles, stolen from the
palace. Here she finds the wounded
hawk Heirax, who whistles to her a
mysterious message about Hera alone
on Olympus, Trojans rebuilding Troy
in Italy, Chaos come back, etc. En-
raged at this latest news about the
Gods, Arsinoe wrings the hawk’s neck,
and after some talk with a philosophic
worm, she goes off to beg a drink of
milk from Tis, who is milking the cow
Babba ....
In short, a narrative constructed on
the irresponsible idiom of a fairytale,
in which events may be mere freaks of
fancy or may contain hints of a pro-
fundity to be revealed. As in a fairy-
tale, the reader is reprieved of all emo-
tional contact with the characters, who
act and speak on some purely arbitrary
principle which has nothing to do with
any psychological concept of human
behavior.
The reader really does not care a
damn what happens to them, and some
pretty terrible things do happen at
times. Half the time he can’t make up
his mind whether Powys is not having a
lark with hinu or with himself. And
though at times an effort to retain a
sense of sequence in events that appear
to have no relation to each other, or
any central theme in the novel, comes
near to exasperating him, he keeps on
reading for the pure satisfaction of a
prose so lucid in itself, so colorful and
full of unexpected turns of phrase, and
of such an inexhaustible gusto, that to
my mind it comes closest to that of
Rabelais in its frequent extravagant
squandering of words for the mere
sounding delight of them.
And this exuberance of style be-
comes the binding unity of a Powys
novel. It is like the perfectly-controlled
impasto of a painting which may be
completely surrealistic in its sequence
of forms, but which is held together
constructively by the hand and mine
of the painter himself. For myself
reading a novel like “Atlantis,” or his
previous phantasmagoria of post-
Roman times in Britain, “Porus,” is
the fascination of reading a concept of
life generated by the mind of John
Cowper Powys.
It is an amazing, a unique mind, a
mind of an encyclopaedic culture; a
mind which has absorbed every facet
of the human ego’s struggle to estab-
lish itself as a conscious entity in time
and space.
Not only the whole output of classi-
cal antiquity in the arts, or any period
since which has produced great or
significant works, but all byways of the
normal or abnormal in the way «f
myths, legends, demonologies, mytho-
logies, cults, ritualisms, or any other
lore generated in the prehistory of man-
kind have their place and significance
in John Cowper Powys’s concept of
life. Plus all that, he adds to it a
practised ease in the stark realism of
modern prose-writers. In short, if Pan
came down from Olympus to write
novels he would write like John
Cowper Powys.
There is one other content in the
Powys concept of life which may seem
to add the faculty of seer and mystic
to that of novelist, but there is no fog
of metaphysics over a forthright accept-
ance by him that cosmic forces operate
on the passion and drama of human
life on earth, as surely as they affect
all seasonal and climatic changes in its
physical stability. What may often
seem most fantastic in his symbology
may be reduced to plain factualism, as
for instance, in the worm’s complaint
to Arsinoe:—
“Aren’t you ashamed to talk
so loud that a person ca.n’t hear
Echidna’s answer to Eur/bia? Is
it nothing to you what has caused
this terrible Pandemonium which
is shaking the bowels of the uni-
verse, cracking the kernel of the
cosmos, splitting the fundament
of the crustaceous globe and dis-
turbing every civilised and schol-
arly and sophisticated and weapon-
less worm who dwells below the
vulgar and brutal surface of this
blood-stained and desecrated
earth?”
And that little passage, with its key
of Rabelaisian laughter, touches on
the profundity which underlines all the
thought of John Cowper Powys, and
which is the basic theme of “Atlantis.”
As defined in his own words, it is this:
There are so many varieties of
consciousness that it would seem as
if it ought to be possible for us to
relax .the thought-pattern of human
beings, or perhaps stretch it a little,
till we could pass into the con-
sciousness of a fish or a reptile or
an insect or even a plant or a tree.
If that passage is kept in mind, much
that seems irrelevant and freakish be-
gins to take its place in the novel’s basic
theme, though it requires a considerable
exercise in concentration to divine that
theme, or to define it in lucid terms.
It is based on the greatest of all pro-
fundities. One might say it is the only
profundity, since it embraces all other
possible profundities. The. necessity of
finding a label for the inexplicable has
defined it by the word “consciousness.”
Without consciousness, the human ego
could have no being and the universe
would be a vacuum.
If we cannot know what generates
consciousness, we do know what gives
it the power to express itself in sen-
tient terms, and that is Art. Art, by its
symbols and imageries defined in
words, forms, and sounds, has made
the human ego sensitive to all sensory
impressions from without and all emo-
tional stimulus from within. The
human ego has so long automatically
absorbed this genesis of self-aware-
ness and external perception that it
accepts consciousness as a self-generated
process, blandly ignoring the long-
sustained and exhausting struggle of
creative art which has evolved it from
a primordial savage to a civilised entity.
Consciousness has one major objec-
tive, which is to increase the content of
the human ego. To deepen and widen
its awareness of the passions and aspir-
ations of its being and sensitise it to
the beauty and mystery and horror of
the conditions under which it exists.
But with the mechanism which has
generated those conditions it has no
concern. Yet there is one facet of human
consciousness which concerns itself
only with that mechanism, and that
facet has been labelled Science . . .
Here, then, is the conflict-motive of
“Atlantis.” To that warm, passionate
need of the human ego to experience
the adventure of life by an inspired
urge of self-creation, Powys opposes
the cold, heartless, unhuman curiosity
of Science to discover and meddle with
the mechanism which holds in an un-
stable unity those external conditions
under which human life exists. Ali
that has gone to the creation of con-
sciousness in the human ego means no-
thing to it. Driven by a mental mech-
anism as soulless as one of its own
machines, it has finally arrived at dis-
covering the principle by which matter
is held in a coherent unity. From that,
the discovery of a principle which can
disintegrate matter was inevitable
At that pass the security of human
life on earth stands today. Life, yes,
but not consciousness! On that
supreme crisis Powys ends his novel.
He has given it its title because the
great civilisation of Atlantis was de-
stroyed by a man-made cataclysm.
Powys goes to Homer for his setting,
because with Homer was generated that
imagery in words which human con-
sciousness still expresses itself insentient
terms. He takes Odysseus as his central
protagonist, because Odysseus, the
adventurer, the discoverer, the eternal
man of action, has given, and still gives,
creative art the subject-matter it needs
to recreate the passion and drama of
life in an imagery which may be ab-
sorbed into human consciousness. To
the old Odysseus he adds his young son
Nisos, who symbolises youth as it
stands at present, on the verge of an
unknown future. To Nisos he adds the
fly and the moth, as entities symbolis-
ing a state of awareness in animate life
in all its forms, as all poets sensitively
attuned to Nature have endowed it
with a pantheistic consciousness.
Finally, to those is added the club of
Herakles, that symbol of the heroic
conquest of evil and monstrous things.
And though the arrows and the
brazen club of Orion are unable to
demolish the Science-Horror, the self-
brandished elub of Herakles, the heroic
destroyer of evil monsters, smashes it
till there is nothing left of it but “a
revolting mixture of blood, flesh,
bones, seaweed and sand, streaked with
filthily bedaubed tufts of hair,” leaving
Nisos io reflect over its remains:—
“That awful Being had cer-
tainly no sympathy with anybody
or anything. We were all the same
to it. It would cut to bits, it would
burn to cinders, a hero, a lion, a
dolphin, a bird, a frog, a worm, a_
maggot or a flea. And all this to
understand life!
“It didn’t enjoy anything, or
like anything, or admire anything
or pity anything. And yet it
wanted to explore everything,
and understand everything. What
an appalling way of under-
standing things! All it could
understand of anything was how
that anything reacted to torture .
and compulsion .... I now know
that I shall be a prophet when I
am a man. I’ll be a prophet for
the putting of Science in its place.
Its place is the servant, not the
master, of life, the friendly
‘doulos,’ or obedient slave of living
things, not their pitiless ‘basileis’
or ‘royal despot’ . . .”
On that key “Atlantis” ends, with
Odysseus, Nisos and the Trojan girl
Arsinoe sailing away on a tranquil sea
to land and safety; to the eternal con-
tinuity of life which cataclysm may dis-
rupt but cannot destroy. And for
myself, believing that there is no greater
mind than that of John Cowper Powys
functioning on this earth today, I accept
as authoritative his denunciation of
Science, not for its threat of inflicting
atomic cataclysm on the earth, but for
its effort to dominate and corrupt the
sole reason for which an earth exists
and that is that consciousness should be
sustained at its height by all that sen-
sitises the human ego to awareness
of its own being and the conditions
under which it exists.
To the black pessimism over the
future which haunts every thinking
mind today, Powys brings a joyous note
of reassurance. That seemingly ruth-
less monster, the Science-Horror, is a
poor feckless thing, after all. It will
never succeed in subjecting mankind
to its law of soulless, machine-made
existence while the soul of Odysseus,
the adventurer, the self-willed seeker of
a dangerous destiny, dominates the
heroic will to self-creation in man.
Norman Lindsay.
Chaucer and Dylan Thomas
Seven hundred years of English
poetry is a lot to be included, or repre
sented, inside the covers of one book
of 450 pages. So that it is not possible
to be too critical of Professor A
Norman Jeffares if in his Seven
Centuries of Poetry (Longmans) there
are “omissions and inclusions that
seem capricious”—quoting his own
introduction to the volume.
It is the inclusions that most often
seem capricious; the omissions may be
pardoned on the ground that the pro-
fessor’s aim was to make an anthology
that “should supplement the poets
studied in detail and indicate the
gaps to be filled.” Though it seems
a pity to include a meagre extract, and
not even the best parts, of Coleridge's
“Dejection”; and surely it gives, a
wrong emphasis for the novelist George
Meredith to occupy as much space
(four pages) as such poets as Coleridge
and Blake! (Southey rates five.)
Professor Jeffares has also a per-
sonal predilection for the 18th cen-
tury, and gives its minor poets full
space. But none will quarrel with his
selections from Pope and Crabbe, or
the delightfully whimsical “My Cat
Jeoffrey” of Christopher Smart: —
For I will consider my cat
Jeoffrey,
For he is the servant of the living
God, and daily serving him:
For firstly he looks upon his fore-
paws to see if they are clean ;
For secondly he kicks up behind
to clear away there . . .
For in his morning orisons he
loves the sun and the sun loves
him.
In trying to avoid well-worn
anthology pieces—and this is a really
difficult task for the anthologist today
—Professor Jeffares sometimes makes
an arbitrary choice of an inferior piece
that is less-known. Byron, represented
by snippets from long poems, suffers
in this way and does not appear at all
as the fine lyric poet of “When We
Two Parted.” “She Walks in Beauty”
or “We’ll Go No More A-Roving.”
Gray’s “Elegy” is inevitably omitted,
and his stiff “Sonnet on the Death of
Richard West” (“The Birds in vain
their amorous descant join ”)
included. Yet Blake’s “Tiger, tiger,
burning bright” is in, when there is so
much else that is good and yet little-
known in Blake; and nothing could be
more hackneyed now than W. H.
Davies’s “Leisure.” This is atoned
for by two excellent selections from
Emily Bronte.
Among the modem writers, perhaps
W. J. Turner suffers most. Of course
anthologists can’t go on serving-up
“Romance” forever, but the wordy
(Continued on page 35)


mm
m
Straight from the iamb’s bach .
Our
l
Fleecy Finings
This is our lamb. He’s the most go-ahead" little lamb in the world, for his woolly fleeces
line the warmest boots in the world . . . our very own Snowboots! Naturally his fleece is
white as snow . . . BUT a bright, glowing 90 deg.
warmer ! ! He snuggles closely to your feet
(right to the ankle) in the most blizzardly weather. But
because he’s a fleecy lamb, four feet have space to breathe, to move, relax.
The boots he lines are hide leathers in zipper and lace-up styles. Whether
you’re relaxing about the home, whether you’re a busy doctor, a shift worker,
you’ll warm to our lamb !!
UIBiMMJmUI
Brown suede zipper boot, lambswool lined with a choice of foam
or leather soles. Sizes 5-11, foam, 52/6; leather, 63/6.
Ideal for the professional man this tan boot has a zip fastening
and stout sewn leather soles; they are fully lambswool lined and
are available in full and half sizes 5-11. Price 85/-.
1
i
1
■
Her& is a snowboot in a range of two colours: tan willow or black,
made from “Box Calf” with genuine welted soles and lambswool lined.
Full and half sizes from 5 to 10. Price 102/-. Size 11, 105/-.
mm
i
Soft, warm brown suede snowboots for lounge-room comfort, lined with
lambskin and incorporating pump leather soles for long wearing.
All sizes 5-10, and priced at 71/-. Size 11, 73/6.
These Snowboots in black or tan hide are just the thing for chilly days
ahead. They are laco-ups in “Derby” style—fully lambswool lined. Full
and half sizes 5/10. Price 76/6. Size 11, 79/-
MAIL AND PHONE ORDERS—ANTHONY HORDERNS' POSTAL
• -t'- ■ .-.ii'-' V; ,V-
-BOX 2712,
•.0., SYDNEY, PHONE B 0951.
ami


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 18, 1955
Vol 76—No. 3927
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD 'Phone C BU 5m. Street ’ Sydney: Box 2521 -
Victoria : Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. •
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
PUBLIC-SERVICE PRESSURE-GROUPS
HANDSOME salary-increases to top public
servants in New South Wales—first prize of £875
p.a. on top of his previous £5OOO p.a. to Railways-
commissioner Winsor, whose railways were reported
a tew-days later to be certain to record another
deficit this year—followed similar increases in the
Federal public service. “Other ranks” in the N. S.
Wales public service got their rise a few months ago.
It was a fairly substantial schedule, but their spokes-
men expressed dissatisfaction on the grounds that it
wasn t as generous as that granted to the Common-
wealth pubhc service. That the increases are to be
used as an argument for giving Cabinet Ministers
and Members of Parliament a bigger hand-out from
public funds goes without saying.
Announcement of the latest increases brought
comment about the high salaries now enjoyed by
some of the “tall poppies” of the public service, but
if horticultural metaphors are to be used poppies,
tall, short or medium are somewhat out of season-
under the conditions of 1955 the vast army of public
servants in Australia must be likened to orchids,
raised under hot-house conditions, nurtured at
great expense, and protected from the cold winds
that blow outside. Demands for higher salaries or
better conditions for public servants—the latest a
demand for a 35-hour week—are usually accom-
pamed by the plea that only by granting them can
the drift away from the public service be stopped.
What is this drift aWay from the service? Where
do the drifters go? No statistics are ever produced
to support the plea.
When price-control was discontinued it was
announced that most of the men who had been
engaged on that work had been transferred to other
departments. Not many of them seem to have taken
the opportunity offered by the closing-down of their
department to seek better jobs outside.
There was a time when the public servant was
poorly paid in comparison with those doing similar
work in private industry. He was considered to
be compensated by security of employment, long-
service leave and pension-rights on retirement. He
still enjoys these rights, but he can no longer be
said to be underpaid.
General secretary O’Neile, of the Public
Service Association, claims to speak for 150,000
public servants. Presumably that is the combined
membership of the associations in the various
States, but it by no means completes the list of
those on the public payroll. To it must be added
the vast numbers employed on Government rail-
ways, tramways and bus-services and other Gov-
ernment activities also local-government em-
ployees. At the end of January the Commonwealth
Statistician put the total in Government employ,at
701,000 persons, which is 26 per; cent, of the wage-
earning population, and potentially the biggest
pressure-group in the Commonwealth. The pressure
has been applied, too. On more than one occasion
railway unions in N. S. Wales have talked the
Government into short-circuiting the Arbitration
Court when some of their claims have been opposec
by the commissioner. Last December the Sydney
City Council granted salary-rises to council-
employees without recourse to the court. The
recipients appeared well satisfied—until State public-
service salaries were bumped up in February.
Now they are hopping-in for their cut once again’
and the council’s “Labor”-dominated finance-
committee, the chairman of which is also assistant-
secretary of the Municipal Employees Union, has
refused a suggestion that the request be referred
to the Arbitration Court; it will negotiate direct
with the union as it did last December. “Drift from
the service is again being trotted out to justify a
second pay-rise in less than six months. But
pressure-tactics are not confined to demands on
Government (or councils) in office. They are also
being used as threats or bribes at election-time.
A year ago, with the Federal election-
campaign in full swing, general secretary O’Neile
made an extraordinary announcement, to the effect
that his organisation intended to make abolition of
the means-test the main issue of the election He
said:—
We are a little tired of promises on this issue,
and are looking now to take political action. The
federation has asked Mr. Menzies to meet a
deputation.... to outline to them the Govern-
ment’s intentions on the means-test. The federa-
tion has also asked the Federal Labor leader, Dr.
Evatt, to supply in writing Labor’s proposals for
abolishing the test. When we have both policies
before us we will determine which is the more
worthy of support and instruct our
accordingly.
Subsequently O’Neile announced that Dr. Evatt
had given the federation “an unqualified under-
akmg „that he would abolish the means-test if
.Labor won the election and that Mr. Menzies
had refused to meet a deputation, “claiming that he
1S Il US £ ’i_,- Thls was being passed
on the the Public Service Associations in each State.
The deplorable thing is that O’Neile and other
officials of the Public Service Associations—the
approach to the party-leaders was made as a‘ result
of a decision by all the State executives—should
think it nght and proper to put the votes of their
members up for auction. The facts admit of no
other interpretation than that the public-service
vote was to go to the party which gave the most
favorable reply on the means-test. All other matters
of national policy—defence, foreign affairs, housing,
ealth, financial stability and national development
—were to be ignored and the votes of public servants
were to be cast on the narrow, personal issue of
which party was willing to offer them the best
pension terms on retirement.
Are the mass of public servants so careless of
national problems and so selfish in their political
outlook that they would allow their own pockets to
be the sole determinant of their vote? If so, then
them? S ° r * serv * ce can fo e public expect from
The pay and privileges of the public service
and its growing strength and power are matters
Which concern the whole of the community. Army
heads in Britain and America have recently become
concerned at the disproportionate growth of the
administrative “tail” of the armed forces at the
expense of the combatant “teeth.” The analogy is
hardly m accordance with natural history, but'the
assumption is that the “teeth” of the army can’t
function without the help of the “tail,” but that the
tail must not be allowed to get so big that it
gets in the way of the “teeth,” which, after all, have
to do the biting. In civil life industry and commerce
ma y be likened to the “teeth”; the civil service
to the “tail.” And in Australia there is good reason
to believe that the “tail” is getting a trifle heavy.
All large-scale enterprises have sooner or later
to tackle a problem of this kind. In private enter-
prise the balance between “teeth” and “tail” is
subject to the automatic check of economics. If
profits fall a reason must be found; if it is traced
tQ too much top-hamper then the axe is brought
out. Governments are not, except in times of grave
emergency, subject to that stern watchdog. The
needed spur must come from without.
. If not suggested that the public-service hive
is peopled entirely with drones. On the contrary,
the greater proportion of public servants are prob-
ably, within their limits, conscientious men. But it
is not merely a matter of whether a man is putting
m his full time on the job, or even whether he is
doing his job conscientiously. The point is whether
the job he is doing fulfils any useful purpose. How
many public servants are merely doing work which
provides jobs for other public servants? Or which
justifies the up-grading of a senior public servant?
To provide an answer to these questions will
not be easy. No public servant could possibly make
an independent inquiry. He would be handicapped
from the start. Perhaps the Bland Committee might
be able to tackle it, though it would have to con-
fine its inquiries to the Commonwealth service.
Probably the only way to have a proper overhaul of
Australia’s administrative “tail” would be to engage
a top-line firm of British or American business
consultants to investigate the whole system. But
have we any Government that is prepared to risk
the wrath of the pressure-groups concerned?
Training Future Generals
“MUGGA WAY”: On March 18, 1954, the Com-
mandant of the Royal Military College at Dun-
troon sent his report for 1953 to Army H.Q. in
Melbourne, but Parliament was not allowed to see
it until May 3, 1955, which seems extraordinary.
It can be hoped that our future generals who get
their training at Duntroon are taught to move with
a little more celerity than A.H.Q.
However, the belatedly-tabled report repays
study. It sets out in considerable detail the kind
of things which the cadets learn: The solid curricu-
lum includes military leadership, military history,
tactics, military engineering, staff duties and related
subjects, as well as general educational and
academic subjects; and cadets who complete the
four-year course (49 graduated at the end of 1953)
are fi regarded by Australian universities as having
completed the first two years of a degree course.
Cadets in their final year are now attached to
Natronal Service units for two weeks, and spend a
week at the School of Artillery and a week at the
School of Military Engineering. The commandant
reported that most cadets were well aware of th
importance to their future careers of a continuec
study of military history. The study of campaigns
was helped by the making of models of the area
The classes about to graduate were given a bac
ground of instruction “against which world even
and trends could be studied and analysed,
involved a detailed study of the Communist wor
—Soviet Union, China, Eastern Europe —and
study of the major countries and organisation
aimed at halting the expansion of Communism
the United States, United Kingdom, NATO, E.D.C
and ANZUS.”
The new cadets learned of the major qualitie
of leadership through a special R.M.C. film, “Caree
to Command,” and of man-management throug
another film, “The Way Ahead” and consideratio
of everyday problems confronting junior com
manders.
The report sets out in considerable detail th
syllabus dealing with war administration, armo
and military engineering. Under the heading o
“infantry” it is stated that more time was devotee
to exercises in the field, the warfare training includ
ing “the necessary proficiency in the use of the lighi
respirator and . . . knowledge of war gases anc
equipment.” It is announced that the hours allottee
to drill and ceremonial instruction have gradually
decreased over the years, but as a result of voluntary
practice “normal standard has been maintained.”
Ordnance, army service and mechanica
vehicles were among other subjects, and “lectures
were given on atomic and biological warfare. This
instruction enabled cadets to appreciate the prob-
lems introduced by this type of warfare.”
Physical training progressed well, and Can-
berra sporting teams which meet the cadets in
competition will be interested to leam that special
emphasis was placed on conditioning for the
various seasonal sports. “Cadets were taught a
series of special exercises designed to warm the
body, to increase the flexibility of the joints, and
to develop strength. Pre-session conditioning is
considered essential to obtain best results, and mini-
mise injuries.”
At the other end of the instruction-scale, weak-
nesses were found in English Expression. Among
the new students there were still a number at the
end of the year whose work was below pass stan-
dard. It is to be hoped that those who may be
writing their memoirs somewhere around A.D. 1990
(if any generals or anyone else survive to that
year) will have improved their prose style by then.
A Road Freak
A FREAK motor-driver has appeared on the
Sydney roads. He seems to be incapable of using
his horn, he keeps well to the left when travelling
slowly, calls overtaking traffic past with a wave of
the hand, does not creep past standing trams and
generally conducts himself in a most astonishing
fashion.
When other vehicles cut in on him in the
accepted Sydney manner of beating the other fellow
to the turn, this unique driver slows to let them by.
When somebody blares a horn at him on a hill and
rushes by he remains calm and unruffled. At inter-
sections he makes sure the traffic-cop sees him
before going on. He never makes the slightest
right-hand turn without a hand-signal, nor does he,
when leaving the kerb, shove his right hand out
and shoot the car into the traffic without a back-
ward look, as is the accepted style.
When he sights another vehicle trying to turn
in heavy traffic this curious specimen stops his own
car and the following traffic and signals the turner
through. Sometimes the startled recipient of the
unusual courtesy is visibly affected. Our subject
encounters a wandering pedestrian, either drifting
across the road at a tangent or propping like a
startled fawn. Does he blare the horn savagely,
glare ferociously and scream abuses? He does not!
He slows right down, or stops, checks oncoming
traffic with his hand, and with a tolerant grin,
signals the offender to safety.
He was followed from Watson’s Bay to Mac-
quarie-street in peak-hour traffic. Along Hopetoun-
avenue he kept at a steady 28 m.p.h. Among others,
a big yellow car hooted him aside and rushed by.
At the Double Bay diversion the freak, though
he could have shot through the turn, stopped for 20
seconds to let a ute come on and pass, then rolled
on. He averaged about 20 m.p.h. round the diver-
sion, entered the main stream and went serenely on.
For left-turns he was in the left stream of traffic,
in the right for the right, crossed nobody, edged
nobody, and displayed patience all the time.
In Macquarie-street he was captured and in-
terrogated. “I drove in Sydney for twenty years,”
he said. “The last six months I’ve been driving in
England. The English example is irresistible.”
“But if everybody drove like you we’d never get
.” “That’s what I used to think” he said, “until
I went to England.”
Maybe the insurance companies would save
millions by spending some thousands in sending
batches of Sydney motorists to England for driving
lessons.


THE FIZZER


PLAIN ENGLISH
Red China Is the Danger
Tihe Prime Minister has given
the clearest warning that Communist
China is the present and prospec-
tive menace in this part of the world.
The increased economic and technical aid
which Australia is to give to South-East
Asia is to counter Chinese subversion in
that area; the sea, air and land forces
which we are to send to Malaya as Aus-
tralia’s contribution to the British Com-
monwealth’s strategic reserve there are to
be a symbol of the real strength which
will be promptly available at need.
There has been no indication of the
real nature of our defence in depth, but
Mr. Menzies has pointed out that in the
present state of Communist thinking and
practice, Laos, Cambodia, Siam and
Malaya are constantly exposed to attack
from without or from within, and that
Australia’s free existence would be chal-
lenged if the Communists “overran South-
East Asia, subverted Indonesia and stood
at the very threshold of our northern
door.”
We have been at grips already with
this enemy in Korea. We have seen its
destructive force in Indo-China. We know
something of the pressures building up,
helped by “enormous armed manpower”
and the stern Communist control of the
fertile land of China, for use against
Formosa and perhaps against areas nearer
to us. Our own survival can be assured
only by our own exertions and what the
Prime Minister calls “the co-operation of
powerful friends, including the U.K. and
the U.S.A.” In helping to keep our
northern neighbors free we shall help
ourselves, and Menzies rightly has found
“unbelievable” the idea that any respon-
sible Australian should think that we
could be effectively defended either by
our own efforts within our own borders
or by resolutions of the United Nations
which could be rendered impotent by the
Communist veto.
Our battleline is far to the north of our
northern coast, and it is to be hoped that
the Opposition will take some time off
from its cutrrent brawling and look
objectively at the defence situation. The
futile resolution carried in Hobart by
the Federal semi-executive of the party
should be forgotten, and “Labor” should
make an effort to look clearly at what is
now involved in the defence of this con-
tinent. Parliament has, of course,
approved the Government’s plans (the
Prime Minister remarked jocularly to
reporters that his “habitual pessimism is
a little lightened” on that score), but it
would be more reassuring for our friends
and more emphatic a reminder to our
enemies if all political parties were to
show enlightenment on the subject, and
a readiness to face the realities. The
advance of Communism must be halted
by every means in our power, and a
degree of national unity in the face of
the new and menacing “yellow peril”
would be a helpful consummation, especi-
ally if it involved dropping Dr. Evatt and
spme of his group from their present
posts.
In the meantime the Government must
continue to keep the Australian people
aware of the nearness of the danger in
distance and time. Any delay will be
dearly bought, any slackening of defence
efforts will court disaster for all of us.
Vandalism—Plain and Fancy
Vandals have been having an open season
in Sydney lately, and no historic relic or
tomb, no work of art seems safe from
their desire to destroy or deface. A fort-
night ago police were called in to investi-
gate the smashing of two vaults in the
churchyard of St. John’s, Parramatta, one
of the oldest buildings in Australia, dating
back to the pre-Greenway era. One vault
was that of Surgeon John Harris, who
came out with the First Fleet; the other
held the remains of the Rev. Samuel
Marsden and his wife.
Apparently a slab of sandstone had
been pushed into Harris’s coffin ; a skull
found nearby was presumed to have been
taken from the grave. The Marsden vault
was still intact, but a stone wall around
it had been smashed. St. John’s is situ-
ated right in the heart of Parramatta,
and, for its historic connections, should
have a place in the heart of every
citizen of Parramatta, yet, according to
report, drinking-parties in the cemetery
are of frequent occurrence.
Last week a similar story came from
Camperdown cemetery, like the Parra-
matta churchyard the last resting-place
of people associated with the early days
of New South Wales. In both cases the
culprits appear to be adolescent louts who
get around in gangs and find malicious
pleasure in such acts. Savage races almost
'without exception show respect for the
dead, even though in many cases it
springs from superstitious fear. Sydney’s
young savages have lost their superstitious
fear without''replacing it with civilised
respect.
As even the hybrid “social studies”
which have replaced history in the cur-
riculum of N. S- Wales schools seek to
inculcate some respect for the early
pioneers, it can only be assumed that
the louts responsible for the desecration
of tombs are unteachable as well as
incorrigible.
The same excuse cannot be advanced to
condone the conduct of the students who
disgraced Sydney University last week by
an outbreak of vandalism masquerading
as “student fun.” The'Archibald Foun-
tain, the finest piece of sculpture in Aus-
tralia and a monument to the comrade-
ship of French and Australian troops in
War I, was daubed with yellow paint. So
were the anchor and gun of H.M.S.
Sirius, the oldest historic relics of the
founding of the colony. Most disgraceful
of all was the pouring of green chemicals
into the Pool of Remembrance at the
War Memorial.
Undergraduate humor seldom rises to
brilliant levels. At best it is good-
humored fun; more often it is no more
than rowdy horseplay and noisy ribaldry.
There is seldom anything original about
it, and there was nothing original in'last
week’s outrages; they were all of a piece
AUSTRIA AND THE
SOVIET—Page 28
with the desecration of graves at Parra-
matta and Camperdown. But surely in
seeking models for Commemoration Day
pranks the students can set a standard a
trifle higher than the uneducable louts
who smashed the vaults at St. John’s. Or
do they think that was funny, too?.
inflation and the Budget
“In the ACT”: Some disturbing aspects
of the economy must be worrying the
Treasurer in the present preparations for
the Budget—which may, of course, be an
election Budget. This Government, which
came into office proclaiming that people
should be left with as much of their own
money as possible, is likely to end the
1954-55 year with a cash surplus of
between £4O million and £6O million, and
with the knowledge that if the tax-rates
are reduced a powerful impetus will be
given to inflation in a community where
there is still full employment with rising
wages.
The current expedient of import-restric-
tions is curtailing some avenues of spend-
ing, but is leaving more money for the
purchase of locally-produced goods on
which production-costs are often abnor-
mally high. The restrictions, designed to
protect the shrinking overseas reserves,
are inviting retaliation by those countries
which normally buy our exports, and
exports are not rising rapidly enough in
quantity or showing sufficient cutting of
costs to make long-term improvement of
those balances assured. The expansion
of Australian population and the pro-
gramme of near-feverish development are
both'resulting in greater demand for local
goods, thus reducing the quantities avail-
able for export.
The need for a wide range of imports
is one aspect of the economy Which is
worrying the experts. The value of im-
ports, as a proportion of local factory
production or of national income, is now
higher than in 1938-9, which means that
local production at competitive prices is
not really taking the place of imported
goods. The protection offered by the
tariff, plus import-restrictions, is not mak-
ing for efficiency, and the rising wages
which are stimulating internal demands
are also lifting production-costs to a level
which makes competition abroad with the
exports of other countries more difficult.
National development has been stimu-
lated by the high rate of migrant-intake
and by borrowing from the International
Bank (about £AIIS million in five years).
This expansion, seen largely as essential
for national survival in our geographic
situation, thus poses major economic
headaches.
The present intention Is to get more
migrants here, and presumably the effects
on production and consumption have
been assessed somewhere. At the same
time the rapid rate of population-increase
adds to certain shortages, and thus helps,
for a time at least, to increase inflation-
ary pressures. The Treasurer’s real pro-
blem, which is, of course, the concern
of the whole Government, is to encourage
a major increase in productivity and to
give true incentives to efficiency designed
to cut down costs. This should not be
insoluble. Successful achievement will
be of lasting benefit to Australia.
Travel at Your Peril
When this was mitten no fewer than 16
people had fallen from Sydney electric-
trains in four months, nine being killed.
City Coroner McNamara more than once
slated the railways for not providing
safety-doors, shocked citizens demanded
them, a group of alarmed parents (many
of the fallers were schoolchildren) formed
a “safety-doors league,” and the daily
press attacked both the Railways Depart-
ment and the Government which runs it.
Before the latest tragedies both Com-
missioner Winsor and Railways Minister
Wetherell said they’d agreed that it would
be too costly to instal safety-doors, that
trains would be too stuffy with them, and
gave other excuses. They’ve changed
their tune. Now they’re to instal the doors
on an eight-car train “as an experiment,”
with the warning that this will mean one
train out of action for some time and will
be “a serious thing, as ill trains are
needed for existing schedules.”
It is to “take two months to fit the
experimental train,” and, “if the train
proves to be all right and the policy is to
go on with the installation of the doors
we will do the other trains one by one.”
A large part of Sydney’s public-trans-
port chaos is caused by the tendency of
Sydney people to crowd doorways.
Trains, trams, buses—nobody will stand
inside unless they’re pushed in. The
struggle at crowded pick-up places in
peak-hours beggars description. In the
city streets thousands risk death and
injury every day climbing in or climbing
out the wrong side of trams, causing
traffic-halts and accidents. The dropping
and locking of a simple cross-bar at the
tram terminus —as is done in Melbourne
—would stop it.
But simple remedies have no appeal for
the people running Sydney’s public-trans-
port. They must have conferences, they
must consult the Minister, consult the
union, build experimental trains, fob off
demands for safety-appliances with
excuses about “cost” —in short, they do
nothing but talk nineteen to the dozen
and prepare long “reports” and “study
information on the types of doors used
in other countries” and all the rest of it.
While the people they’re supposed to
transport in speed, comfort and safety
keep on getting killed or mangled, parents
never know whose child will be next,
and the City Coroner almost daily has to
pass judgment as to how another victim
of this lackadaisical and irresponsible
system met his fate.
Wine Research
“Mugga Way” : After many years of
discussion on the, problems of the wine
industry, a Wine Research Institute is
to be set up, using the £500,000 from the
“Encouragement Account” which was
created in 1930 by raising the excise-duty
on spirit used for the fortification of wine.
Bounty-payments on wine ceased in 1947,
when it was considered the industry was
in a healthy state, mainly due to increased
sales in Australia, and the £1,100,000 in
kitty provided a windfall of £600,000 for
the Government. The balance of £500,000
went into an “Assistance Account,” from
which payments were subject to Tariff
Board approval. The board turned down
an application in 1949 for £300,000 for
advertising purposes, and in 1951 the
winemaking and grapegrowing interests
suggested, through the Wine Board, the
establishment of the Research Institute.
The Tariff Board found that there was
scope for an extension of research, and
suggested an investigation which was
shared by the Wine Board, the C.5.1.R.0.,
the Customs and Commerce departments,
State Departments of Agriculture and
the industry. The result is the present
plan, now before Parliament, which pro-
vides for the registration of the institute
in South Australia, as a company limited
by guarantee and not having a share-
capital. It will be managed and con-
trolled by a council, and it will start with
a pleasant nest-egg of £500,000, of which
up to £lOO,OOO may be spent on land,
buildings and equipment.
One important aspect of the plans is
that promotion of export trade in wine
must remain one of the permanent objec-
tives of the institute. Australia has suf-
fered a disastrous setback in the United
Kingdom market under the competition
of South Africa and the Continent, and
the institute should ascertain promptly
the possibility of putting a better selection
of our better wines on that market, of
obtaining more sympathy from the U.K.
Government, and of “plugging” our
superior varieties in the right quarters.
There is much to be done also in Aus-
tralia, including an inquiry into factors
which affect wine-consumption. Prices
in various parts of the country should
be examined, the provision of lighter table-
wines which will compete with the stand-
ard Australian drink of beer at all times
and places should be considered. The
institute, of course, will investigate other
matters, including the scientific aspects of
grape-growing and wine-making. It pro-
mises to do much for the Australian in-
dustry, and if rim on the right lines should
do a great deal also for Australians who
appreciate the rightful place and use of
wine in civilised living.
\ __
Petrov Commission
Some of the evidence heard by the Petrov
Commission at private session in Sydney
in February and March was released last
week. “Mrs. A” —the commissioners
directed that her true name should not
be revealed —said she had worked for
Naval Intelligence during the war and
later had been in touch with the Com-
monwealth Investigation Service and the
Security Intelligence Organisation. She
had also worked on public relations with
the Department of Post-war Reconstruc-
tion. In 1950, while a journalist on the
“Daily Telegraph,” she had joined the
Democratic Rights Council. She had
asked Rex Chiplin’s advice about joining,
and he had sent her to see Harold Rich.
For some time she did much work for the
Democratic Rights Council, but later
dropped it at the persuasion of Chiplin
because “he did not want me to be pub-
licly associated with these people.”
At about the middle of 1951, said
“Mrs. A.,” she went to the Department
of National Development as assistant
to Commander Jackson. This was done
at the suggestion of Mr. Whitrod, a
Security official. Only Commander Jack-
son and Dr. Raggatt knew the real reason
of her joining, which was because Jack-
son tad approached Whitrod regarding
matters of Security concern. In Canberra,
Chiplin had questioned her about Jack-
son’s activities in the department, about
American investments, plans to make
Australia “a food arsenal” ; he had asked
her to “get any possible information
you can on defence plans.” She had
given him certain information after
having it “vetted” by Whitrod.
While at the Department of National
Development she had discovered that a
whole cabinet of documents from a sec-
tion of the industrial development
division had disappeared assessments
of Australian industries made during the
war and complete records “of every firm
in every industry in Australia.” As far
as she knew it was still missing. Under
cross-examination by Mr. Hill (counsel
for Chiplin) “Mrs. A.” said she had joined
the Democratic Rights Council under the
direction of Security. She had also tried
to join the Communist party, but Ric
Oke, who was to finalise it, did not keep
the appointment arranged.
When Mr. Hill suggested that “Mrs. A.”
had handed Chiplin a document regard-
ing a proposed treaty of friendship with
the United States, Ligertwood, J., inter-
posed: “You are not suggesting that she
gave it to him; that your client committed
perjury?”
Mr. Hill: My instructions are that this
lady handed him a document in Canberra.
“Mrs. A”: I did not give it to him.
Later, Rex Chiplin, “Tribune” journal-
ist, said that he had said in his paper
that the treaty was in force because
“Mrs A.” had told him it had been in-
itialled. When, in previous evidence he
had said, “A highly-placed Government
official revealed the existence of the treaty
to me because he was disgusted,” he was
using the word “he” as an all-embracing
term.
The chairman of the commission,
Owen, J., said that his impression was
that Chiplin had first said that a man had
given him the information in the Parlia-
mentary Library and that he had handed
the document back to the man after copy-
ing it. He had denied that “Mrs. A.” was
the source of the information, thinking
her a pro-Communist friend. Later,
finding that “Mrs. A.” was a Security
agent, lie had decided to change his evi-
dence. “Mrs. A.” had denied the alle-
gations, and her diary and reports to
Security seemed to establish that she had
not been in Canberra at the time men-
tioned (between November 4 and 14,
1951).


j? 55
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS
What is my business?
To be the objective judge between points of view.
What tools do I need for the job?
Facts —nothing but naked facts, as recorded in KRESING’S
—leaving you free to form your own opinion.
What is KEESING’S?
The one and only KEESING’S is an ingenious News-plus-
Reference service. It is issued every week in loose-leaf
supplements which record the important happenings of our
time, registering all the essential data on Politics, Eco-
nomics, Social Questions, etc., throughout the world.
What is unique about it?
Its “living” Index which is constantly renewed to embrace
the latest items, giving immediate access to every entry,
while the special Binding Case is designed to hold the
loose-leaf material in solid book form for permanent
reference purposes —and so you build up your own
authentic work of reference on present-day developments:
unbiased, concise and always up-to-date.
What is my next step?
Just fill in the coupon, post it now and look forward to full
particulars about this useful and fascinating requisite for
minding your own business efficiently, responsibly,
objectively.
Published, by
KEESING’S PUBLICATIONS LTD.
OF BRISTOL, ENGLAND
~ POST THIS COUPON NOW
Australian Representative
JOHN GILMOUR & SONS
(Contact Mr. Gilmour at Office 1, Floor 10,
Challis House, 10 Martin Place) SYDNEY. BL 1133.
Please supply free details of KEESING’S service.
NAME
ADDRESS B 3
POLITICAL POINTS
There will be no exchange of pre-
ferences between the two Victorian
“Labor” parties on polling-day. But
plenty of compliments are being ex-
changed at their election-meetings.
• •
Free of foreign occupation for the first
time since Hitler marched into Vienna in
1938, Austria will still have to pay Russia
£6B million (in goods) in return for the
release of concerns seized by the Russians
as German assets ; also a million tons of
oil a year for 10 years.
•- •
Suspicions that the Soviet change of
front over a peace treaty for Austria was
a direct result of the Western Powers
agreement with West Germany became
a certainty on Sunday when Molotov
broadcast Moscow’s desire to see a simi-
lar treaty with Germany, with the two
sectors of the country reunited and
disarmed.
• •
A further sequel to the Paris Agree-
ments is the projected visit of Krushchev,
Bulganin and Mikoyan to Yugoslavia “to
improve relations between the two coun-
tries and strengthen peace.”
• •
Accusations of drunkenness made by
one Federal member against another will
in future be judged by the House. No
blood-tests will be permitted ; judgment
will have to depend on the evidence of
eye, ear and nose.
Ward is the most persistent offender in
flinging the charge of" drunkenness
against his opponents. Alcoholically he’s
a teetotaller, but in looseness of tongue
he is the most intemperate man in the
House.
• •
The House of Commons takes less
time off for its elections than is custo-
mary in Australia, as a comparison be-
tween the election schedules of Britain
and Victoria shows:
U.K. Vic.
Dissolution May 6 April 20
Nominations May 16 May 6
Polling Day May 26 May 28
• •
After London newspapers resumed
publication the Commons discussed the
relative merits of spoken and written
news. It seemed to be felt generally that
news over the air (even from the 8.8. C.!)
was no real substitute for the written
word. Some members felt the news-
bulletins during the strike should have
been longer, others that they were too
long. One Laborite said the 8.8. C.
should have given betting odds, and
another responded by saying it might as
well have been asked for stock-exchange
prices. (Both are given by the A.8.C.).
One member quoted a professional
journalist who, after listening for several
days to “impartial news,” said how glad
he was, when the newspapers resumed, to
get something with “good, robust bias
in it.”
• •
Two N. S. Wales local-government in-
spectors are investigating the affairs of
the Shoalhaven Shire Council. Names?
—Hunt and Hawkshaw.
• •
Closest fight in the Brisbane Murjicipal
Council election was in Kelvin Grove,
where Alderman Glover (“Labor”) lost
to Alderman Cornelius (Citizens’ Muni-
cipal Organisation) by two votes. Glover
is appealing for an Election Tribunal to
consider the handling of informal votes
at the election, also a charge that double-
voting occurred.
Alaska and Hawaii will not become the
49th and 50th States of the American
Union yet awhile ; a bill to admit the
two territories to Statehood has been
defeated in the U.S. House of Represen-
tatives by 218 to 170. At the last census
Alaska had a population of 129,000;
Hawaii, 500,000.
• •
It is probably true that more promises
are being made in Victoria than in any
previous election campaign in the State’s
history. And it is probably just as true
that promises will have less influence on
the voting than in any previous campaign.
•■\ ■ •
• On thfe hustings the two “Labor” fac-
tions in • Victoria are showing more in-
terest in attacking each other than in
fighting the official Opposition. There is
to be no exchange of preferences, it is
inconceivable that either will win suffi-
cient seats to form a Government alone
and equally unthinkable that in their
present mood they could combine for the
purpose, even if they won enough seats.
Of the Opposition parties, the Libs. are.
hoping for an overall majority, but are.
leaving the door open for collaboration
with the Country party, just in case. The
declared policies of the two parties don’t
show any vital points of conflict such as
might prevent this. The Hollway Libs,
hope to hold the balance of power, but
will probably be extended to retain their
present four seats.
SCRAPPY LANDINGS!
“Well, there goes Cain, Joe. You’re next!”
In the debate which followed Speaker
Cameron’s suspension of the House,
Wheeler, M.H.R. for Mitchell, summed up
neatly what is wrong with the Reps.:
A sense of dignity is something that should
be fostered and cherished by all honorable
members regardless of their political beliefs.
If the occupant of the chair is not assisted by
honorable members themselves, the dignity of
the House is lowered accordingly.
• •
Playford’s law requiring registration of
heavy inter-State vehicles using South Aus-
tralian roads is being challenged in the
High Court. Pioneer Tourist Coaches
Pty., Ltd., which has a fleet of vehicles,
some registered in Victoria and some in
N. S. Wales and which visit South Aus-
tralia in the course of inter-State trade,
is pleading Section 92. The Full High
Court is to decide the case.
• •
Australian, U.K. and N.Z. Govern-
ments are to hold an ANZAM maritime
exercise, with naval and air units, at the
end of the month, beginning from Dar-
win. The official announcement said the
exercise would provide “an effective
demonstration, of the mobility of the
Commonwealth naval and air forces,” but
did not state whether those eminent
strategists Haylen and Ward had been
invited to attend.
• •
•
There was some comment in the Can-
berra lobbies at the fact that the Govern-
ment, instead of taking some action
against members who offended in the
demonstration that compelled the Speaker
to leave the Chair, permitted a censure-
motion to be launched against the
Speaker'as a sort of smoke-screen of
larrikin actions. One Lib. back-bencher
remarked that it was like “putting the
victim in the dock and allowing the mur-
derer to serve on the jury.”
• •
Anyone got any right ideas for using
the £5OOO which Canberra has in kitty
out of the operations of the defunct Hide
and Leather Industries Board? The
money is to be used “for research or other
activities designed to improve hide pro-
duction in Australia, and to benefit the
cattle industry.” Political hides don’t
qualify.
• •
S.A. Assembly gets its youngest member
in 25-year-old Robin Millhouse who
won the by-election for the Mitcham seat
by over 6000 votes in a poll of 17,000.
In all subdivisions the Liberal vote was
up considerably compared with figures at
the Federal election last year.
British Conservatives are rejoicing at
their gains in the local-government elec-
tions—about 350 seats. As a pointer to
the general election the gains are not so
encouraging as they seem. They merely
show that the Conservative vote has im-
proved since 1953 when Labor gained the
seats they have now lost —and many more
besides. What Eden and Co. need on
May 26 is a bigger vote than 1951.
• •
Prime Minister Menzies brushed aside
the suggestion by Playford and some of
the “Labor” Premiers that a conference
should be held on the mental-hospitals’
plan. He was not prepared to concede
that accommodation for the mentally ill
was a Federal matter ; he claimed that
the suggested Commonwealth donation of
£lO million, on the basis of £1 for every
£2 provided by the States to overcome
the serious situation disclosed in the
Stoller report, was “a very handsome pro-
posal.” There were signs that “Labor”
hoped to move for the payment of social
services benefits to the mentally ill, despite
the warning by Earle Page that no Gov-
ernment “of any color” had ever been
prepared to give subsidies in that way
either to State Governments or to the
relatives of the sick.
• •
So the 1951 double-dissolution papers
are being tabled at last! Calwell showed
a little bravado when he said that “Labor”
wasn’t worried what they might disclose.
Perhaps he felt that nothing could add to
the party’s troubles.
■ • •
No matter which party tops the poll
for Anglesey at the British general elec-
tion a Hughes will win the seat. The
three candidates are Cledwyn Hughes
(Labor), John William Hughes (Liberal)
and Owen Hughes (Conservative). Pre-
sent holder is Cledwyn, who won the
seat from Megan Lloyd George in 1951
after she had held it for 22 years.
• •
Another of those queer crimes in which
Sydney seems to specialise has been
sheeted home and punishment exacted.
An upholsterer, needing some extra
money through sickness in the family,
asked his boss for some weekend work.
As a result some chairs were delivered
at his home and he put in five hours work
on them on Sunday. Sequel: He was
fined £5 and his boss £7 for a breach of
the Factories and Shops Act. As usual
in such cases the informing union got
half the fines.
• •
“Spasebo”: Curious how traditions
persist. Back in Tsarist times I pulled out
a camera on a Siberian railway-station
and started to take snaps of the village
and a gang of convicts at work. I was
immediately rushed at by a dozen horri-
fied bystanders and one, a friendly
Russian colonel, whispered to me to put
the thing away. Later, in the railway
carriage, he told me that if I wanted to
take photographs in Russia I would have
to become a member of the Imperial
Camera Society and that was a very dull-
cult thing to do. 1 didn’t feel imperial
enough for that, so handed my camera tc
an official and got it back when 1 left
the country. It now appears that after
nearly forty years of the proletarian revo-
lution, the very word “camera” is
regarded with suspicion ; but the ban is
to be lifted. Amateur photographic
clubs are said to be springing up all over
the country and next year the Soviet
expects to manufacture 1,000,000 cameras.
It produced 300,000 in 1950 for a popula-
tion of more than 200,000,000. I don’t
suppose the shutter-clickers will be
allowed to take snaps of any creases in
the Iron Curtain, but there’ll be millions
of pictures of smiling workers shovelling
gravel and smiling peasants weeding
parsnips.
• •
F.J.N. (Norfolk Island):
Our petition (B. 13/4/’55) brought to light
an interesting and somewhat disturbing fact —
that Australian citizens are no longer able to
appeal direct to their sovereign. We posted
our petition to the Governor-General for
forwarding to her Majesty, as we presumed this
was the correct channel. However, a letter
received from his Excellency’s secretary
informed us that under the Australian Constitu-
tion the Governor-General is empowered. to
deal with such petitions himself, and accordingly
had handed it over to his Ministers and was
“not pleased to forward the petition to her
Majesty.”
I would like to correct the impression given
by the last paragraph of your article dealing
with repeal of the 1913 Act. Prior to this Act
Norfolk Island was administered, under
Orders-in-Council made by Queen Victoria, as
“a distinct and separate settlement” supervised
by the Governor of New South Wales. The
island was ruled by a Council of Elders elected
by the citizens once a year. This Council had
almost complete executive and judiciary
powers—the chairman was also the Chief
Magistrate. The power to make laws was the
prerogative of all the adult citizens of the
island in public meeting. Any Act approved
by public meeting became law immediately,
even prior to signature by the Governor. The
only sovereign power denied the citizens was
the repeal of laws which had to be approved
by the Governor. We had almost pure
democracy, unpractised since its early years in
Greece, and we should be delighted to return
to this set-up which, it appears, would be
legally restored by repeal of the 1913 Act.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
. "pROM our (Tasmanian) parish
1 magazine:
A jumble sale will be held in the church hall
on Saturday, May 14. This is a chance to get
rid of anything that is not worth keeping, but
is too good to throw away. Don’t forget to
bring your husbands.
Nubs.
❖ *X+
“L.K.”: A patron of Chicago’s
Erlander theatre, I thoroughly enjoyed
a spirited performance by Katherine
Hepburn in Shakspeare’s “As You Like
It” late in 1950 and had a satisfying quizz
of the Hepburn legs. Minus make-up
she might manage to look her 40-odd
years above the belt, but below she could
pass for 20-odd. It’s certain Miss Hep-
burn must have been dowered at birth
with limbs destined to be shapely. But
development was aided by athletics. She
can—when she chooses —hold her own
with the near-great in golf, and not so
very long ago she was a figure-skater of
note on ice.
“Myope”: An optical company has
discovered that it takes a fifth of a second
to blink, and that a person blinks 25 times
a minute. If you average 40 miles an
hour on a motor-trip for 10 hours, you
drive 33 miles with your eyes shut.
# *
❖ ❖ ❖
'“I Askew”: # At least one misprint in
the Brisbane Courier Mail was not in-
appropriate. Beneath a photo, of a re-
cently married couple we are informed
they are signing the register after their
welding. “Same thing, different universi-
ties,” as the comedian Mark Sheridan
used to say.
“Kablir”: It is so simple ! Quizmaster:
“What does venison come from?” Con-
testant:. “Deer.” Q.M.: “Any special
kind of deer?” C.: “Dead deer.”
❖ +>
“Chink”: Biblical history brought up-
to-date. A youthful class had been told
of the Garden of Eden, and at the lesson’s
end the teacher asked for sketches illus-
trating some phase of the affair. She was
thunderstruck when an eight-year-old girl
produced an angelic figure at the wheel
of a rickety motor-car, with a forlorn-
looking and not-overdressed man and
woman as passengers. “What on
earth does this mean?” the teacher asked.
The child, in turn, was astonished.
“Please, miss,” she stammered, “you said
Adam and Eve were driven from the
Garden of Eden.”
*
“Wooll”: In an outer Sydney suburb
I had my hair cut by a Latvian woman—
the best haircut I’d had for years. She
told me that, while a woman cutting men’s
hair seemed to be a novelty here, it was
the usual thing in Latvia ; indeed, it was
there unusual to find a male hairdresser.
I could not help noticing how clean
everything was. She told me she was still
not satisfied, because it was difficult
thoroughly to sterilise the electric-
clippers ; whereas in her native country
every hairdresser had an alcohol-lamp,
made for this purpose, these lamps were
not available here.
❖ *l* *S
“Uramao”: Auckland is thick with the
name of Eden in acknowledgement of
“Go and shave this instant, Alwyn, or Well be late .”
what New Zealand as a colony owed the
family of Britain’s new Prime Minister.
Mount Eden, Eden Park, Glen Eden,
Eden Heights and Eden vale are examples.
The family-name of the Lords of Auck-
land is Eden: N.Z.’s first Governor,
Hobson, named the city after the then
Lord of the Admiralty, Lord Auckland.
Sir Anthony noted all these evidences of
his family’s name when he dropped in on
his way to the Empire Press Union con-
ference in Australia in 1925. He made
a second visit in 1949.
»5» *l*
“W.P.T.”: On a holiday at Katoomba
(N.S.W.) my wife took a fancy to a
souvenir-corkscrew in a shop-window.
When told that the price was 13s. 6d. I
bucked. Two doors further down the
street the same souvenir was priced at
95., and still further down the street I
could have bought it for 7s. 6d. So
sudden a scale-down shows that visitors
to Katoomba are less fond of hiking than
they used to be.
❖ ❖
“Mullum”: I see that the organisers of
the Redex Trial have decided to do away
with secret controls, chief reason being
that they do not remain secret for long.
Why they did not decide to make them
really secret I don’t know. Surely it
“The windswept hair-style will suit madam’s face.”
would be easy to observe the cars pass-
ing from an upstairs-window in a town
on the route, noting the number of the
car and the time it passed. Several
locally-organised trials in this northern
part of N.S.W. have used the system with
success, and they were tough controls.
One was where the route took a right-
hand turn, and drivers lost points for not
giving correct hand-signals. Another was
at a roadside pub, drivers who entered the
bar being penalised.
❖ +$ ♦>
“Layman”: “E.&O.E. (B. 4/5/’55),
true to his pseudonym, omitted saying to
whom he referred as the “virtuous
woman” of the Bible. There are scores
of women mentioned in the Bible, virtu-
ous and otherwise —e.g., Ruth, Jezebel,
Eve, Dorcas, Mary. I spent an evening
among them, and was at last, I think,
rewarded. According to the -4 u tfK>rised
Version, Ruth was told, “Thou art a
virtuous woman” (Ruth 3, verse' 11). But
Monsignor Knox’s translation reads, “A
bride worth the winning.” When, in Pro-
verbs 31:10 and 12: 4, that great philan-
derer and polygamist Solomon talks of
a “virtuous woman,” Knox translates
“vigorous” woman. Maybe virtue, like
beauty, is in the eye of the beholder.
, ❖ *X* ❖
“Geep”: Asked the English master,
“Who has read Paul Brickhill’s Reach
for the Sky ?” Green’s hand was among
the dozen or so that shot up. Lads of
15 have this in common with their elder
brothers and uncles: they hate to admit
they haven’t read the current best-seller
The master picked on Green. “And what
do you consider the main theme, Green?”
“Crime, sir.” “Crime? What sort of
crime?” “Gunplay, sir.” Don’t tell me
kids can’t get inspiration from comics.
❖ ❖ *
“Ex-Chicken Runster”: David Camp-
bell’s “Shearer in William-street” (B.
11/5/’55) is chatted by a “lady of the
night” who invites him to buy her dinner
and wine and offers the usual compensa-
tion free because “it’s my birthday.” Is
this, then, a standard opening gambit' in
this kind of deal? A few months ago in
London’s Trafalgar Square a large
brunette first of all insisted she’d met me
at a party the night before, then said it
must have been at Chelsea Flower Show
finally said it didn’t matter, and would w
go somewhere and have a drink becaus
“it’s me buthday, luv, an’ a gel’s gott
be kind on ’er buthday.” I wished he
many happy returns.
O
“Stoker”: She braked up to stop along
side the stationary car. “In trouble?
she inquired. “Flat battery,” he repliec
“Then I can be of some help to you,
she trilled. “I have a pump in th
boot.”
❖ <* ❖
“8.A.K.”: A word with an even more
interesting philology than “lady” (B
4/5/’55) is “daughter.” I nominate i
as a word with acceptable roots in more
languages than any other word used in
English. In Dutch it is “dogter,” in
Persian “dochtar,” the Germans use it as
“tochter,” Sanskrit makes it “duliter,’
Greek had it as “thugater,” contracted to
“thug’ter” and the Saxon of it was
“dohter.” Any one of them could have
been the parent-word from which our
“daughter” descended, and . all could have
derived from the same source. Most dic-
tionaries state that “daughter” derives
from “Anglo-Saxon ‘dohtor’ ” or “Middle
English ‘doghter’ ” ; but my old school-
teacher was adamant that the word came
direct from the Scandinavian with the
Danes, and meant “milker of cows,” that
chore being the daughter’s job.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Spokeshave”: The new religion. Two
Preston footballers, struck by
lightning during practice when a freak
storm smote Melbourne, were so thankful
when they found they hadn’t been reduced
to a cinder that they hurried off and look
a ticket in Tatt.’s
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pawang”: When television comes to
Australia I hope experiments by doctors
will be strictly barred. The 8.8. C. put
over a programme called “Mind and
Body,” in which two girls and a young
doctor were tortured to show how shock
and drugs cause gooseflesh and gummy
hands. A doctor jabbed a lighted ciga-
rette on the forehead of the guinea-pig
doctor, and a machine recording heart-
beats and other manifestations showed
his reactions. A blank pistol-shot was
fired, and the girls gasped—the test would
have been more impressive if they had
scratched the demonstrator’s eyes out.
One viewer of the idiocy said that she
thanked goodness the children were in
bed, and others switched their sets off.
The object was to show how our emotions
affect our bodies. It has taken a long
time for the doctors to discover what
Socrates observed 2400 years B.C.
* ❖ ■**
“Doric”: We pulled in for afternoon-
tea at a roadside 'settlement. The wit of
our party remarked “Every house around
here 'seems to be called ‘Hot, Water.’ ”
“That ain’t the name of the houses,” our
little bush waitress explained. “They
put them signs up to let people know
that they sell hot water for people who
want to make tea.”
THE MAIDEN’S COMPLAINT
“Miss Katharine Hepburn, whose wardrobe
was thought to contain only slacks, attended
her Sydney civic reception in a formal dress.”
“When Hepburn came to Sydney Town
She aired no elegances;
She said she hadn’t a dress or gown,
Just seventeen pairs of pantses;
She wore them out to big affairs,
Which only the great ones dare do —
So l ordered myself a dozen pairs,”
Said the girl with the horsetail hair-do.
“Ah, cruel to make of maids a mock —
I was foolish to believe her!
She was all got up in a formal frock
When the Mayor was to receive her !
‘All this and Hepburn, too!’ cried he —
/ say it’s not a fair do,
Misleading an innocent child like me,"
Said the girl with the horsetail hair-do.
‘I can understand it was not her wish,
And agree with her sincerely,
To serve up such an original dish
As a second helping, merely ;
But it’s time the most practised of
Shakspeare’s “Shrews’
Should know, as all women who care
do,
Who wears the dresses and who the
trews,”
Said the girl with the horsetail hair-do.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
DEATH IN THE AFTERNOONS
Hail to Sydney’s virile press!
Freer it’s never been,
And only pikers see an “ob”
As prefix to the scene.
LOVER BATTERS GIRLFRIEND!
MANIAC KILLER ESCAPES!
TEENAGE MODEL LIVES ALONE
WITH ANTHROPOIDAL APES!
All features are “exclusive”
But not, alas, unique:
STAR’S SHOCKING BEDROOM
SECRETS !
{To be laid bare next week!)
Bosoms, thighs and mayhem,
CHILD-WIFE TAKES TO DRUGS!
You ought to be in Sydney now
To learn to know your thugs.
Vivid, human copy,
Ruthless, rugged prose:
BRUTE FINDS GIRL IN DOORWAY,
RIPS OFF ALL HER CLOTHES!
Every day’s exciting
GROOM SAYS WIFE TOO FRAIL!
VAUCLUSE GIRL IN HAREM!
The press is on her trail.
Hail to Sydney’s virile press!
Banner headlines flying,
Watch our circulations grow —
And prestige slowly dying.
N.S.W.
OBSERVER.


THE fairies in our street are far too
rich. They have been handing out
two-bob a tusk to kids shedding their
first set of teeth. Now that our nipper is
being're-toothed not only is the inflated
market forcing me to shell-out beyond
my meagre means, but a continual jaw-
survey for the least looseness goes on,
and “pull-outs” are made to occur before
their due date, for economic reasons. —
“Metax.”
♦♦♦ +*<■ ♦♦♦
“Quo Vadis”: Employees’ perks
(“Wondi,” B 6/4/’55)? What about local-
authority power-house employees? Light
and power is often supplied free to their
homes. Some use this concession to the
utmost and ,have an electrified house:
stove, fridge, wash-boiler and washing-
machine, vacuum-cleaner, radiators, irons,
kitchen-appliances, workshop-motors, 100-
watt bulbs in every light-socket. It does
not take long for the big saving in fuel-
and electricity-charges to pay for many
of the items installed. The time-and-
energy factor is a further boon to the
householder’s family. That the cost of
the benefit to the worker has to be met
in some way by the unlucky rest of the
community is conveniently forgotten by
the L.A. and employee alike.
*X+ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Doynest”: With the opening of book-
ings for Melbourne’s Olympic Games a
week or so ago, there has already been
talk of “scalpers” buying-up choice seats
for the more important events and offer-
ing them at a substantial profit. The idea
spreads. My youngster came home from
school the other day with a couple of
tickets for the college play ; he told me
that all the best seats had been bought
by some enterprising schoolfellows who
were offering .them at 50 per cent, above
the official price. As the number of seats
was limited and the show was quickly
booked-out, they had no difficulty in
cleaning-up. They’ll get on!
*1* *X* ***
“L.K.”: Let’s settle once and for all
this business of driving on the left- and
right-hand side of roads. The origin of
the left-hand rule in Great Britain was
the need for preparedness of the earlier-
day horseman to present his sword-arm
to strangers encountered along the way.
The left-hand rule in Australia derived
partly from British custom imported to
Australia, but more from pioneer team-
sters and coach-drivers requiring room
to swing their whips. The cause of the
right-hand rule in America was the'Cones-
toga Wagons, the driver of which rode
the left-hand rear horse ; in our language,
“postilion.” He drove on the right-hand
side of the road in order to observe wheel-
clearances when passing other vehicles
on the then narrow roads.
*x* k 4 ♦>
“C.A.L.”: The hardware sales-assist-
ant was in a happy frame of mind, for
his customer was placing a large order.
The customer made one stipulation—
“And that's Mum”
that the goods must be delivered on the
morrow. Yes, the h.s.a., would see that
they were. But was the h.s.a., certain
they would be? Quite certain; the
goods would be given a top priority for
the next day’s delivery. “Well,” the cus-
tomer was slightly convinced. “I hope
you keep your promise.” “Have no fear,”
replied the h.s.a., smiling expansively,
“I’m not like a politician, making a lot
of empty promises.” But here he said
a word' or so too much. What quickly
turned out to be an ex-customer was a
member of the State Legislative Assembly
without a sense of humor.
, +♦♦ ♦♦♦ *X*
“Jock”: I call on ex-servicemen in
North Shore (Sydney) hospitals as a
member of our R.S.L. hospital visitation
committee, and through the years I’ve
met hundreds of First War Diggers. Some
of them have been 20th Battalion men,
and I’ve cracked the usual joke: “Aha,
who lost the trench-mortars?” I’ve seen
fights in France over this question
between unit-proud 20th Diggers and
others; but I’m blessed if I know what
it implies. Just what are the facts of
this famous raid by Fritz on the 20th?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: Frantically busy on
night-duty in a four-tent ward, I just
prayed the wardmaster would riot send
“I’m not payin' out good cash just to be told I'm not as young as I
used to be.”
me y e t another raw recruit in the medical-
orderly set-up. The prayer could not
have been earnest enough, because there
stood one, reporting for duty ... I did
no t know then, as I found out later, that
he was lately transferred from canteen-
service, but, too busy to quiz him much,
I said: “Nip into the next tent will you,
and see if those two drips are 0.K.?”
He disappeared, but did not return. So
later, catching up with him again, I
said “Were they running?” “Nope,” he
drawled, “everyone was in bed s’far as 1
could see.” Obviously, the only drips he
had encountered were not of the intra-
venous variety.
*X* *X* ❖
“Wusslean”: Four consecutive entries
in the Melbourne telephone-directory
provide food for thought. '
Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria.
Anti-Corrosive Pipe & Lining Co. Pty.,
Ltd.
Anti-Corrosives (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
Anti-Smoking League of Victoria.
To devotees of the fragrant weed, like
the writer, the juxtaposition appears
ominous.
* ❖ ❖
“Fair Mac”: All the old axioms are
coming unstuck these days; but the one
passed on to his nephew by the English
nobleman: “Never chase your hat, my
boy; somebody will always bring it back
to you—and be glad to do so,” was as
true yesterday as it was on The day it was
uttered. This morning, however, my own
hat blew off and went bowling down the
street. I set off in futile pursuit, but a
stranger darted off the footpath, made a
grab, missed, tried again, failed again,
then leapt into the chase. He was within
inches of the quarry when he stopped
abruptly, wheeled, and dashed off at a
tangent. A cab went over my cady. What
caused the pursuer to abandon the chase
so abruptly? A gust of wind had swept
his own hat off and sent it soaring acrpss
the road. He couldn’t have known the
axiom.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Lao-dah”: The Russian-style purge
by the Chinese Communist party, which
has resulted in the sudden disappearance
of a dozen highly placed officials, is no
new thing in China. It was started by
the Christian Marshal Feng Yu-hsiang
before World War I. A rebel general
was defeated and captured in fair fight
in which a few thousand common soldiers
were slaughtered, but instead of allow-
ing his adversary to remove himself (and
the million dollars he had made in his
fight for freedom) to the International
Settlement of Shanghai, Feng-horrified all
right-thinkers by chopping the general’s
head off. Since any Republican general
was likely to become a rebel overnight
and any rebel general a Republican, this
was simply not done, and the controversy
that raged around Ceng’s action con-
vulsed the press of China. An unfor-
tunate precedent had been established ~
but the fact that it was contrary both to
old Chinese customs and the Christian
principles of the marshal does not make
it any less acceptable to the new-model
Chinese.
* ❖ ❖
“Tos”: We really must stop these “top
American artists” from coming here. I
asked a boy in the Intermediate class
what was the name given to the fifth pro-
position of Euclid. He replied much to
the delight of the class, but also to my
discomfiture —“Pons Assinatra! ”
+X+ *X* *t+
“Bimbi”: Signalling a left-hand turn
by flapping the hand up and down several
times (B. 4/5/’55) is still common prac-
tice in Queensland, though I’m not sure
whether it is legal. One thing drivers of
long-distance trucks and buses find diffi-
cult to remember is that when they cross
the border into Bananaland they must
give signals by hand —not with the mech-
anical-hand so familiar to southerners.
There has been agitation for an Australia-
wide code of signals, but no State has
yet been willing to admit that its own
system is not the best.
* ❖
“Fitz”: For some inexplicable reason,
whenever confronted with the name
Alfred I confuse it with Arthur, and
vice versa. The confusion is not limited
to names of persons, but applies to street-
names as well. Not long ago an elderly
woman alighted from a tram in that pait
of Sydney’s Circular Quay called Alfred-
street and asked me whether she was in
fact in that street. Positive in my mind
that she wanted Arthur-street, which is
out towards Moore Park, at least a mile
and a half from the Quay, I told her she
was a long way from where she wanted.
Either she was a stranger to Sydney or
a simpleton, or else I was extraordinarily
convincing ; any rate, she allowed me to
steer her to a tram, which she boarded
after I’d given her precise directions.
Not till the tram wtes rattling up Pitt-
street did it dawn on me that I had sent
the old lady on a terrible wild-goose
chase. The other evening—the wettest
in Sydney for 90 years —this confusion
of the two names happened in reverse.
This time I ventured forth in the down-
pour and hailed a taxi, to pick up three
New Zealanders staying at Arthur-street,
Lavender Bay, and take them to a party.
It was not until I had rung a dozen door-
bells in Alfred-street in the same locality
and was thoroughly soaked that I realised
that the strange transference of the two
names in my mind was again in opera-
tion. Heaven help me should I have
occasion to visit Alfred Town, near
Wagga (N.S.W.). I would probably
end-up at Port Arthur (Tas.).
THE SKIN GAME
“Beauty trends have swung away from the
suntanned outdoor look. The face pale ,
wan is coming in, with lipstick in subdued
shades, and flavored —mint is to be popular.
The wide-eyed look is a ‘must.’
Jean, is the windblown look your forte ?
June, are your eyes with health aglow ?
Joan, have you ruddy cheeks from sport ?
Jane, does the sunbeam-paint still
show ?
Then dice these things! 1 would exhort;
’Twill spell disaster, you should know,
If you pursue ideas outmoded.
As man-attractions they’re exploded.
You should appear, girls — well, at least
As if your face had stopped some flour,
Or you’d been shocked by some wild beast
About to spring and then devour ;
As though you’re close to being deceased,
Grimly awaiting your last hour;
Or been most terribly affrighted
By Frankenstein’s but lately sighted.
#
Eschew, too, the incisive glance —
The use of that no more compels.
Your pulchritude you will enhance
By wearing eyes like a gazelle’s.
You might seem in a chronic trance,
Your lamps like a dead mackerel’s.
Your air will seem like stupefaction —
But that is really the attraction.
And watch your lipstick; just make sure
It’s something with a deathly tint;
So that it won’t be too obscure,
Plaster it on, dear, without stint . . .
You will exude intense allure
If it is redolent of mint.
Then, all you need, to gain full favor,
Is powder with a roast-lamb flavor!
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Dropped in from Tokyo with the visit-
ing American basketball team —object, to
spend a month’s leave with his parents in
St. Kikla, Melbourne —Captain Keith
Young, late of the southern city, now
U.S. citizen and commandant of the U.S.
Air Force Evasion and Escape School in
Etajima, Japan. The U.S. service-publi-
cation “Stars and Stripes” calls Young
“the most fabulous character in the
American Air Force.” However that
may be, he certainly rates a degree of
versatility—in the U.S. in 1938, writing
scripts for six-gunner Buck Jones, he
signed-up with Army Intelligence after
Pearl Harbor, went into Normandy with
the invasion forces, dug-in with the
French Underground, and won Croix de
Guerre therein. More peaceful pursuits
take in piloting with a flying-circus, pearl-
diving, and authoring
three books, one of them, Born For
Adventure, his autobiography. Now, in
Etajima, off Kure, one of his jobs ri im-
personating a Communist commissar and
putting on a turn for U.S. wherein
he mouths, snarls, yells, pleads and gener-
ally gives an impression of the treatment,
they can expect if shot down and captured
in China. Also teaches prospective
prisoners how to scrounge off the land if
they’re not captured.
R. D. WIN DU ST —started telling with
the Bank of Australasia at Whangarei
( N.Z. ), way back, became accountant in
Auckland in 1948, sub-manager ‘in Mel-
bourne after the Union and Australasia
got together, has just been appointed
chief-accountant of the composite A.N.Z.
Bank in Collins-street.
Percy Valentine Storkey makes a habit
of surfing in summer and fishing when-
ever the Law lets him out to cast. In his
17 years as presiding judge in northern
N.S.W., this has not been often. Now,
recently resigned from the District Court
Bench and as chairman of Quarter Ses-
sions, he’ll have more time to indulge his
twin vices. An Enzedder .admitted to the
N.S.W. Bar in 1921, before going to the
Bench he was kept busy circuiting round
south-western N.S.W., Crown Prosecu-
tor. As well as LL.B., he rates V-C. after
his name —an addition won when Captain
Storkey and co. took on a strong German
position in Hangard Wood, Villers Bret.,
a month over 37 years ago.
• •
“Macneli”: What Sir George Creasy,
C.-in-C. Home Fleet, doesn’t know about
the Atlantic (and what can' be expected
to skulk in its depths in another war) it’s
not much use asking Neptune about.
When Hitler let go, Creasy was in com-
mand of the Ist Destroyer Flotilla, and
for the first bitter years of U-boat attacks
in the Atlantic he was responsible for
directing the Royal Navy’s anti-submarine
warfare. Having, with his incredibly
hard-worked destroyers, frigates and
corvettes, broken the back of the sub-
marine menace, he shifted to the bridge
of battleship Duke of York. In her he
came upon Schamhorst, trying to get at
a British convoy, barred by a small force
of cruisers and destroyers. Creasy
wasted no time. In the high-latitude
afternoon darkness he opened with star-
shell, silhouetting the German’s bulk, and
let go with full broadsides of his 10
14-inch. Suffering heavy damage, Scham-
horst ran. But the punishment she’d re-
ceived slowed her down. Hanging on’their
big friend’s flank, the vengeful destroyers
saw their chance, raced ahead of the
German and hit him with a shoal of
torpedoes. Then up came Duke of York
again. The destroyers saved 36 of Scharn-
horst’s complement of over 1500. Per-
haps Creasey’s biggest job was his appoint-
ment as naval chief-of-staff to Eisenhower
for the Normandy return. To round-off
his knowledge of what goes on in the
Atlantic, he finished the war as admiral in
charge of submarines. Now 59, 46 years
in service, he’s just gone up to full
Admiral of the Fleet, the truck of naval
promotion.
• •
L. H. Bird, senior chemist (whose writ-
ings abroad on the biochemistry of fer-
menting doughs brought him wide
recognition), is leaving the New Zealand
Wheat Research Institute after 18 years
with it. He goes to the Agricultural
Research Station at Wagga (N.S.W.),
cereal-chemist.
• •
New Head of Malvern Grammar
(Melbourne), R. D. Goodman holds
degrees in Arts and Education, is part-
way'through his LL.*B. course, and re-
cently presented his thesis for a Doctor-
ate of Philosophy: Melbourne and Aus-
tralian National Universities his venues.
The 2nd A.I.F. added a bit more —learnt
in Tobruk, the Western Desert and
Borneo; period of enrolment, six years.
Before returning to high-school teaching
after the war, he put in two years as
organiser and administrator of an educa-
tional-therapy programme for disabled
Diggers in Victoria.
• •
“Coll”: A record of versatility pos-
sibly unequalled since Snowy Baker is
claimed for 42-year-old Westralian
Charlie Norman. Before steering trotters
to victory, he was an amateur jockey;
off the course he was State amateur light-
weight wrestling champ, from 1931 to
1940, and held the amateur featherweight
and welterweight boxing titles in 1936,
besides being runner-up in an open
amateur middleweight competition. As
an amateur cyclist, he rode in many long-
distance races; as a runner, he won the
State mile in 1932 and broke records for
two and five miles. Also, he was in the
State junior surf-lifesaving championship
team, has played in tennis competitions,
and has hoofed the ball under both Aus-
tralian Rules and Rugby codes. Now he’s
taken on ventriloquy.
• •
“In the ACT”: Dean of the diplomatic
corps, J. Aubrey Martensz, C.8.E., High
Commissioner for Ceylon, arrived in Can-
berra on February 7, 1949. His impend-
ing departure will be regretted by those
in the capital and elsewhere who have
enjoyed both his hospitality and his in-
formed comments on men and events.
He has been.an able representative of
his country and a popular member of
many Canberra activities, especially the
educational. Dean of the corps when the
Russian Ambassador left suddenly last
year, Martensz will be succeeded in that
position by High Commissioner for New
Zealand G. E. L. Alderton, here since
September, 1950. The new High Com-
missioner for Ceylon, P. R. Gunasekera,
has been a member of the Ceylon judicial
service since 1946, and was formerly
principal of Mahinda College, Galle.
• •
Appointed, at 35, Professor of Animal
Husbandry and Genetics at Sydney 1 Uni-
versity, Dr. L. Robinson is a Westralian
who got to Cambridge on a Hackett
Scholarship. He held a Navy commission
in War 11.
• •
Taken the final count, Noah Rrusso
(fighting name, Tommy Burns); bom
at Hanover, in Canada, a few days less
than 74 years ago. He had, at the end,
just arrived in Vancouver to enter a
religious order when his fighting heart
gave in. Since his last match in 1920,
he had run a hotel in London, operated
a speakeasy in New York, and in his
later years turned evangelist. He was
ordained a minister in California on
Christmas Day, 1948. Australia saw him
in 1908, the year he thrice defended his
world heavyweight title —against Bill
Squires in Sydney, Bill Lang in Mel-
bourne, and again in Sydney, with Jack
Johnson in the opposite comer. Norman
Lindsay’s black-and-white impression of
the main actors in that epic stoush is on
Page 25 of this issue, along with a “velly
funny” account of some of the happenings
connected with the scrap.
Federal Attorney-General Spicer will
leave for England at the end of May to
attend the Commonwealth and Empire
Law Conference, due in London in July.
He will attend as delegate of the Law
Council of Australia and as Leader of
the Bar in Australia —a bit of a cry
from the days when he appeared before
the Victorian Transport Board on behalf
of small motor-firms seeking road-
licences. Many legal luminaries from
Australia will attend the conference,
which follows the initial one promoted
by the Australian Law Council four years
ago.
• •
Sighted in Fremantle for the first time
in 49 years, J. Bolguardsen, 68-year-old
skipper of the new fast German freighter
Ludwigshafen. His last visit to Westralia
was in the steamer Kiel, in 1906. Most of
his seafaring has been in windjammers,
for which he has always had a preference
—even though, as mate of the Preussen,
a five-masted 8000-tonner, he was
wrecked on the Dover coast in 1910. As
master of the German sailing training-
ship Hamburg, he visited Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Hobart in 1925, delivering
cargo and sailing away with grain. Fre-
mantle was by-passed on that voyage.
• •
Though not a big man physically, L. F.
Kelly, Westralian Minister for Mines,
Fisheries and Industrial Development,
has never been dismayed by the size,
number and variety of his jobs. In addi-
tion to his threefold portfolio, he has
just taken over the job of Acting-Minis-
ter for Lands and Agriculture during the
serious illness of the Minister, E. Hoar.
Kelly is no stranger to landmatters. In
pre-political days he spent many years
on nor’-west sheep-stations, managing
one holding of 27,000 sheep, and also
he was farming in the Bullfinch country
from 1927 to 1931.
• •
Each year the Aero Club Federation
of Australia awards its Oswald Watt
Medal for the most brilliant performance
in the air or the most notable contribution
to aviation by an Australian. The 1953
medal has just gone to Wing-Commander
D. R. Cuming, for his London-Christ-
church air-race effort in the .Canberra jet
and his work as the R.A.A.F.’s senior test-
pilot. The 1954 award settles on Mervyn
Waghorn, who made a record single-seater
flight in a glider—3o3 miles, from Narro-
mine to Wangaratta.
• •
This is Aubrey Murphy, Mayor of
Katoomba (N.S.W.). Born back of the
Blue Mountains at Orange (thus, he grins,
making a Murphy an Orange-man), he’s
son of Stephen Murphy, one-time City
Coroner and S.M., Sydney. With his
early education somewhat delayed
through his being shot in the head with
a double-barrelled shotgun (at a bit over
three years), he eventually went on to
Newingjon College (Sydney) and left
for a five-bob-a-week job with Holds-
worth Macpherson’s, in the building now
The Bulletin’s. There followed law,
then theological study, both of which
callings he had to give away because of
recurring eye-trouble from the early gun-
wound. He found his metier in hospital
work, and for years was assistant-secre-
MAYOR MURPHY,
tary to the Royal Alexandra Hospital for
Children, and, later, organising-secretary
of Royal North Shore. Then local-gov-
ernment took hold. In 1947 one of the
aldermen of the first elected council of
the Blue Mountains city, he’s remained
in, for the last two years as mayor.
When western N. S. Wales was flooded
recently he promptly got things moving,
and as well as collecting upwards of
£5OOO, had food and medical-supplies on
the way west within hours of the flood’s
striking. He’s 67.
Angus McNeil known
as “Mick”) was born close to the Tweed
(the N. S. Wales one), at Murwillumbah
—he has stayed pretty well all his life up
that North Coast way, to the considerable
benefit of, in particular, Kempsey and
parts adjacent. Long, lean, alert, he is
a medico by profession, an organiser by
nature. Kempsey alderman for six years,
this year he took on the mayoral chains:
he has presided over the local R.S.L., over
Legacy for six years (leaving that post
for the mayoralty), and for nine years
MEDICO McNEIL
was secretary of the Eastern District sub-
branch of the B.M.A. During the 1949-
50 deluge up there he had the sizeable
job of handling flood-relief funds. He’s
sat for his portrait before —in oils, done
by the senior official Japanese war-artist
in the S.-W. Pacific; what can be called
legal fraternisation, McNeil being in
charge of the medical supervision of
20,000 captured Japs in two hospitals in
the Celebes, after he had landed at Balik
Papan with the 2/6th Field Ambulance,
Seventh Div. He finds time to hobby,
seriously, with a farm down-river from
Kempsey. In Kempsey itself you’re likely
any time to meet four generations of the
name, his father being Angus McNeil, his
grandfather Angus McNeil and his son
yet another Angus McNeil —a record
probably rare even on Barra, the clan’s
wind-swept and brine-and-whisky-pickled
ancestral rock off Scotland’s west coast.
• •
“Uramo”: New Professor of Political
Science at Victoria University College,
Wellington (N.Z.), R. S. Milne, of
Bristol Uni., takes over the post from
R. S. Parker, now Reader at the Aus-
tralian National University. An exhibi-
tioner at Queen’s College, Oxford (1937-
40), Milne has lectured, under a Fulbright
scholarship, at Ohio (U.S.A.) State Uni-
versity. In Hitler’s war he was a captain
in the Royal Artillery, later serving on
the Military Commission for Germany.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Portland (Vic.), at 95, Edwin Davis, who
must have been Australia’s oldest working
newspaper proprietor. Until two years ago
he had been hand-setting type since 1889, when
he bought the Portland “Observer.” As
well known in Portland as the Henty’s, he
started in the printing-trade there with the
“Guardian” at 2/6 a week; shifted to the
“Observer” at 5/- a week, later bought it
and was there until a few weeks before the
end. His son and four grandsons will bring
the paper out.
At 81, in Melbourne, Henry Masterton,
chairman and managing-director of the
century-old firm of coal-merchants and tug-
owners, James Paterson and Co., and a
former noted racehorse-owner. A nephew of
the firm’s founder, he had been with the
business all his working life; son Leith is
manager.
In Northumberland (Eng.), at 86, Sir Ralph
Mortimer, who was in with Baden-Powell at
the founding of the Boy Scout movement.
Scout-commissioner for Northumberland, he
was president of the county’s cricket-club,
and played for his own county and for
Lancashire.
In Melbourne, at 84, Frank L. Baker, who
pioneered X-ray in Australia and New Zealand.
He started supplying equipment to hospitals
only two years after Rontgen discovered the
rays, when they were still an amusing novelty
for bazaars and parties. He founded in Aus-
tralia the branch of the London firm of Watson
and Sons, now Watson Victor, and, as well as
being a good businessman, was fascinated by
science. He was first in the radium-supply
field and one of the first amateur wireless-
operators in Victoria.
At Croydon (Eng.), at 90, James Walter
Burkitt, well-known on both Brisbane and
London Stock Exchanges. Soldier, and
brother of H. F. Burkitt, Probate and Succes-
sion Valuer for Queensland.
In England, at 78, Basil Gill, who toured
Australia at the end of last century as Marcus
Superbus in “The Sign of the Cross,” just
before Julius Knight made that part famous
when Beerbohm Tree engaged him, with Maud
Jeffries, to tour Australia and New Zealand in
the same play. Gill’s career as a Shakspearian
actor lasted 50 years.


THINGS YOU’D LIKE TO DO YOURSELF
(A Do-it-yourself Exhibition has been opened at Sydney Town Hall, emphasising the idea that everyone can have a hobby.)


ABORIGINALITIES
C HOOKS’ feathers flew in all direc-
tions as the fast “goods” ploughed
through the flock feeding near the station.
The driver braked the train to a crawl
and anxiously looked back. As the
guard’s-van passed through the still-
flying feathers the guard waved the “all
clear.” With a grant of relief the driver
got the train going again on schedule.
At the next station the driver handed
down the bucket of hot water to the
guard. “Them chooks must be gettin’
a wake-up; only one this time,” com-
plained the guard. “Yairs,” replied the
driver, watching the plucking operation.
The fireman said nothing. He was busy
smearing the shovel-blade with fat. —
“J.C.P.”
*** * *
“The Red Dam”: Recent strong sou’-
easterlies carried to Lake King (W.A.)
rare visitors: two albatross. The birds
had an estimated wing-span of 7ft. The
point about it is that Lake King is 80
miles inland from the south coast. Any-
one seen the graceful flyers further
inland?
* * * *
“Harden”: It lay on the Hume High-
way, just at the turn-off to Rurrinjuck
Dam. “Look!” Junior squealed. “A
brand-new suitcase. Must’ve dropped off
a truck!” On went the brakes, open
went Junior’s door, and just as he was
about to hop out and retrieve the case, a
figure appeared from behind a kurrajong.
Porkpie hat, grey slacks, blue sports-
coat, natty bow-tie. With his right
thumb he gave the “Going my way?”
sign. It deserved a lift and he would
have got one, but we were turning off for
the dam. In the rear-vision mirror I saw
him philosophically nudging the suitcase
a little nearer to the yellow centre-line
on the highway.
“Burna”: Once saw a six-foot ant-hill
in the N.T. which slowly burned away
inside for two months before collapsing.
If that was a fair sample, then one day
white-ant-nest briquettes should be
standard slow-combustion fuel; the N.T.
supply would last a long time.
* * * *
“Bongroo”: This Kelly business is
even more complicated than “H.A.L.”
(B. 20/4/’55) suggests. Leach’lists three
birds of the species, the Australian raven
and the little crow, both of which have
white eyes, and the Australian crow, with
hazel eyes. It seems to be generally con-
ceded by most observers that the little
crow restricts his diet to fruit and insects,
being particularly useful because of his
partiality for grasshoppers at all stages
of growth. But which of the other two is
the villain, and which the farmer’s
friend? I have shot and trapped quite a
number of persistent raiders of the hens’-
nests, and all of them have possessed the
distinctive white eye. On the
other hand, on the compara-
tively rare occasions when I
have succeeded in shooting
one of the cunning rogues in
the act of attacking a cast
ewe, or a new-born lamb,
without exception the culprit
has sported brown eyes. Then
again, the birds that work the
paddocks when the ’hoppers
are on the move are quite
obviously white-eyed. And so
over the years I have come to the
conclusion that, unless he gets into the
habit of egg-eating, the white-eyed bloke
isn’t such a bad sort, but the brown-eyed
cousin is a rogue of deepest dye, his one
redeeming feature being the way he cleans-
up carrion.
* * * *
“Ajax”: Not all mail-coaches still
extant and claiming to be Cobb and Co.
survivors are genuine. Ring-ins are easily
distinguished, being mounted on steel -
leaf springs, whereas the real McCoys
were suspended on laminated .leather
straps about 4in. wide. They had a
canvas-covered boot resembling a tail-
board at the rear, for carrying mails and
luggage. The top was railed-in for a
similar purpose. The coveted position was
the “box-seat,” alongside the driver and
well above the horses’ backs. This seat
rated a premium in the form of a gener-
ous tip. The inside passengers faced each
other three on a seat. The standard color
was “Wing Kat” or Chinese vermilion—
the bright Royal Mail red. I have painted
many Cobb and Co. coaches with the
official V.R. (Victoria Regina) mono-
gram and “Royal Mail” printed in gold-
leaf on the sides in traditional “fish-tail”-
type letters.
* * * *
“Edx”: Why don’t 'some of these
Aboliars learn their country’s geography?
Here’s “Quo Vadis” (B. 9/3/’55) with a
“Shor'torn-run in Central Australia,”
400 miles s.-w. of Alice Springs, 200 miles
“'Women and children first —that's enough, cast off!
west of Qodnadatta, and 3000 ft. above
sea-level. There can be no such place.
The general locality indicated is in the
Great Victoria Desert, halfway down
South Australia, 100 miles from the Trans-
line, less than 200 from the coast. If
“Quo” had £lOOO for every portly portu-
lacca-punishing Shorthorn he could find
there, even at 1500 ft. above sea-level,
he’d be broke.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Double-banded dotterels
now seen on our coasts are autumn visi-
tors from New Zealand ; the dot. has the
distinction of being the only bird that
habitually migrates to Australia from the
south. The rest of our 30-odd overseas
“Have you ever hunted with the scarlet?”
migrants are from the north —a few from
the near-north, but mostly from Asia.
Some, including the grey-plover, the
turnstone and the sanderling, make the
almost incredible journey from Arctic
areas,
* * * *
“Heresone”: Bunya-pines in Queens-
land (their home State) bear better than
the Horsham one (B. 13/4/’55). In my
schooldays, when we raided the bunyas
ripe ones were picked and broken-up, and
the nuts taken out and cached, to be later
boiled, a dozen or two at a time, in a
treacle-tin of saltwater. Often a tree
would furnish four or five cones, and I
would say that 141 b. would have been a
common weight of one.
. * * * *
“Old-timer”: The boss was prowling
through the accounts and nearly hit the
roof when he totted-up the month’s bill
for vegetables, bought from the town 10
miles away. “Whyinhell don’t we grow
our own?” he demanded. Forthwith a
patch was cleared on the bank of the
creek and planted with tomatoes, pota-
toes, lettuce, pumpkin, and what-have-
you. When the first shoots showed, the
rabbits thought it was Christmas. A
netting-fence was run round the plot.
The shoots thrived, until flocks of wood-
duck and other feathered friends des-
cended on them. The boss armed the
wood-and-water joey with gun and cart-
ridges, but when the lad’s ordinary work
was neglected while he bombarded the
birds the boss had poles erected and a
netting-roof put over the plot. This didn’t
keep out pumpkin-beetles and grass-
hoppers, so insecticides were bought.
About three months later we harvested
a few tomatoes and dug up some spuds.
The boss then went through the accounts
and found that the veges cost roughly
225. 4d. a pound to produce. Two days
later the town greengrocer was back on
the books, and another attempt at self-
help had gone west.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Yes, “Notaword”: (B.
20/4/’55), the sight of those seagulls at
Coward Springs, Centralia, does make a
bloke wonder if he had one too many at
the previous stop. The “water-tank” is
actually a spring ; this is the region where
the edge of the artesian-basin finds the
surface, and the water welling up near the
siding dribbles into a drain cut for a few
hundred yards east of the line. If you
had only strolled out past the two
big date-palms at the far side of the pool
you’d have seen a few terns mixed with the
gulls, and poking along the edge of the
soak plovers, dotterels, and—if in summer
—some of the migrant waders from Asia.
Ibis, egrets and stilts dabbled in the
shallows last time I was there.
* * * *
“Jas”: In the huge web of a massive
spider of the Naphila species I counted
no fewer than 23 parasites. Two of these
were males, minute creatures compared
to their mighty mistress. The balance
were tiny spiders whose bodies had a
curious metallic sheen in the sun. The
shining spiders were apparently scavengers
who cleaned-up the many minute insects
which immolated themselves in the mon-
ster’s web. I noticed that Naphila herself
scorned the smaller insects, which, left
alone, would have cluttered-up the works.
I concluded it was for scavenger services
rendered that the boarders owed the
tolerance they received from the.ferocious
householder.
* * * *
Mechanisation hasn’t softened the
breed. Wally, working on one of
the Alligator River (N.T.) uranium pro-
jects, was flown from El Shrana to
Mamoona to pick up a bulldozer and
drive it to the Northern Hercules gold-
mine workshops to have the blade welded.
The first night out he camped by the
road, started at daylight next morning,
came to a creek about half-past nine
and decided to bathe and boil the billy.
His foot slipped when he jumped down
from tha ’dozer-seat, something cracked
and Wally hung head-down, his foot
trapped between the ’dozer-frame ana
the ’dozer-track.
After half-an-hour of agony he clawed
his way up again and got his f° ot tree ;
From the knee down the leg wobbled
like a jelly. He thought the leg was
broken. Despite the pain, he got two
sticks for splints and bandaged each side
of the knee. .
Thus crippled, he got back into the
’dozer-seat and set out to drive to the Her-
cules. After what he mildly calls a night-
mare drive,” during which he couldn
even get off the seat for a drink, he
reached the mine at six that night. The>
gave him first-aid, kept him overmgh ,
and next morning took him to Pine Creex.
There he waited all day for an
ambulance from either Katherine
or Darwin, but when none ha
arrived by 7 p.m. he rang Katherine
for a taxi, which got him to Darwin
(at a cost of £33) next morning.
He’ll be in Darwin Hospital for a
long stretch.
RUMJUNG.
HOME THROUGH THE
MOUNTAINS
Ninety-five horses, shut in eight cylinders,
Kicking the pistons and rearing to go;
Fretting in road-b’locks where skyscrapers
threaten them, . „
Chafing at traffic lights, signs saying Slow.
Straining to shake off the draglines of Sydney,
Right out to Penrith' the cars hold us back;
Nose through the farmers’ trucks full ol
comestibles,
To leap at the sight of a traffic-free track.
All of a sudden we’re climbing the mountains;
Stare from the eminence down on the roots.
Thrusting the air over wide, metal shoulders,
Ninety-five horses with tough rubber hoots.
Blurring the view as we race through the
tunnels of . , ~
Twisted shrubs, lurching trees, earth-clutching
goxses;
Climbing to crests where the westerly buffets us,
Dropping down valley-sides, resting the horses.
Where Blaxland and Lawson fought for each
furlong, . , ,
We relax in a sun-windowed, steel-and-giass
bubble; .
Juliet sleeps to the songs of her mother
While the road rips beneath with a rattle ot
rubble.
The ranges of mountains subside as' we
conquer them, .
Distance is ravaged, while time only creeps ,
Two boys in the back seat return to their
comics. . , ■ , . .
Two-hundred miles gone; still, the little girl
sleeps.
Carcoar and Cowra. Now there are
wheatfields;
And blocking the roadway, making us wait,
Our first flock of sheep, which a pleasant young
farmer , , .
(Who looks like our neighbor) compels through
a gate.
Greybox and ironbark; a set of wheat-silos,
And somnolent rail-tracks where trains never
come; _ ,
Flat roads that don’t need a half of our horses.
A hundred-miles only—“ That’s practically
home!” . \ .
But wonder of wonders, near home it is
raining! .
Ninety-five horses with two pairs of eyes.
Jerk at their wipers; churn with their rubber
feet ’
Splash the rain-puddles back to the skies.
And snug in their stable, those ninety-five
horses,
Cool off their pistons in absolute sleep.
Tomorrow we’ll take them, phlegmatic and
rustic, ,ii *
To nose through the pastures and look at
the sheep.
N.S.W.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.


Old lush songs
John Meredith’s note: Two songs which are in the repertoire of almost
every old bush-singer are “The Wild Colonial Boy” and “The Old Bark Hut.”
In the several versions of the latter song which I have recorded the tunes are
practically identical. This tune is representative of those sung to me by Mrs.
Scrivener, Erskineville (Sydney), Mr. Goodwin, Falls-street, Leichhardt (Sydney),
and Mr. Fernside, of Wamberal (N.S.W.).
THE extraordinary energy displayed by
every member of the honeyeater clan
suggests that the nectar in our native
flowering-fauna must be chock-full ol
vitamins.
The small birds are tireless foragers,
streaking from flower to flower in rapid
rotation, while many of the big fellows,
and some of the mediums, will fight at the
drop of a feather.
Mostly they brawl about blossoms,
but any excuse will do. Local residents
show special resentment at the intrusion
of nomads —and many of this tribe are
nomadic. ""
Of course, at nesting-time a lot of
fighting must be done to save the family
from predators, and in this task the gill-
bird is without peer amongst avians.
Even the iron-beaked butcher-bird steps
aside when Gillie goes on the warpath.
It has lately been argued by naturalists
that nectar is only an insignificant item
on the honeyeater’s menu. Certainly the
bird stokes-up extensively on insects, but
nevertheless nectar must be of supreme
importance to its economy. Otherwise,
why the specialised beak? Nature
wouldn’t have done a job like that for
nothing.
Saaedi.
* * * *
“Morayda”: The camp shifted into
gidgee country for a yard-building job.
On the first day the camp-fire was lit,
and not another match was used to re-
kindle it in the whole fortnight’s stay.
Gidgee-wood gives off terriffic heat and
produces fierce red coals, which should
be used sparingly when cooking ’in a
camp-oven. When the cook got up in
the morning he would rake the white ash
in the fire-site, and there were always
big, glowing gidgee-coals beneath.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melburnians don’t have to
go to distant caves to see stalactites and
stalagmites. There are specimens 4ft.
long hanging underneath the Shrine of
Remembrance in St. Kilda-road, with
others coming up from the floor to meet
them. In a natural cavern a deposit of
carbonate of lime of this length, accord-
ing to a geologist of the Mines Depart-
ment, should take hundreds of years to
develop. The part of the Shrine where an
electrician found the stalactites is less
than a quarter of a century old.
* * * *
“Freddie”: Despite the slap at pursers
(B. 4/5/’55) “banyan” days werp for-
merly Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays
—days on which no meat was issued in
the R.N. The practice ceased in 1884.
The term is derived from a vegetarian sect
in the East. Its use survives in the term,
“banyan-party,” which means a cheery
sort of picnic-party. Present meaning is
probably derived from the fact that sailors
were accustomed to save up odds and
ends of therr rations in order to make
delicacies to tide them over the meatless
days.
* * * *
“Clyde”: “H.C.8.” (B. 20/4/’55) could
give the impression that I said casein-
glue is derived from slaked-lime. I did
not even allude to its derivation ; I took
it for granted that its origin was common
knowledge. What I did state (and still
do, confidently) was that “the water-
resisting agent in the more common
casein-glues is calcium hydroxide (slaked
lime.)” Note casein-glue, as distinct from
casein. To enlarge: Skim-milk is soured,
the whey drawn off, and the curd washed,
ground and dried. Sodium fluoride,
borax and sodium phosphate are added
to make the casein soluble in water.
Slaked-lime also is added, but the fact
that the lime is soluble in water does not
prove that it is therefore incapable of
making the glue water-resistant when set.
Setting is by chemical action. Also,
“H.C.8.” insists that, to loosen the joints,
he ran warm water under them, not in
them. I would point out that glue is
always in joints. “H.C.8.” says the diffi-
culty was in dealing with glued cleats.
Even assuming that cleats are joints
(which they are not), what I advised
about using methylated-spirit instead of
water when animal-glue is old can be
counted on ; it is a trick of the cabinet-
making trade. Incidentally, cleats across
the grain on solid timber should not have
been glued in the first place.
* * * *
“A.H.”: “H.E.” (B. 27/4/’55) raps my
knuckles for stating that there are no
black-snakes in Tasmania, and I have to
confess that I have not had an oppor-
tunity of personally studying the reptiles
of the Apple Isle. My only comfort is
that such well-known authorities on Aus-
tralian natural history as Messrs. Lucas
and Le Souef ( The Animals of Australia)
and Charles Barrett (An Australian
Animal Book ) support my blasphemy.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The private telephone-
company with headquarters at Middleton,
half-way between Winton and Boulia
(W.Q.), is claimed to be the only one of
its kind in Australia. Initiated in 1914,
the co. lists only 12 subscribers, but
recently had to contribute £3OOO for new
line and repairs. Each subscriber also
pays for his own line at a cost of £4l a
mile, and annual maintenance is estimated
at £lOO. In 1931 and again in 1952 the
P.M.G. was approached to take over the
network, but was not interested.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Having never been person l
ally introduced to him, I accept the claim
made by some Aboliars that the Port
Jackson shark is a harmless and sociable
gentleman. I have, however, met some of
his cousins in Torres Straits waters, the
“gummies” —and these chaps’ amiable
disposition can certainly be ruffled on
occasion, as a Jap diver in the pre-war
shelling-fleets found when, with a stout
kick he disturbed a specimen taking a
siesta on a rich shell-bed. Momentarily
sloughing his politeness, Gummy in-
flicted a nasty calf-wound necessitating
medical attention at Thursday Island
hospital.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: In the lunch-hour our
tame Socialist got going again, pouring
it into us about the great days ahead
when the worker would come into his
own and everyman be a king or some-
thing. Every time he paused for breath
Mat cried, “Hooray, that’ll be the day!”
On went the prophet and at every chance
Mat came in with, “Hooray, that’ll be the
day!” Then the prophet soared to his
climax. “An’ when equality is achieved
an’ the land is full of the ringin’ sounds
of the chains failin’ from the workers’
limbs an’—an’ ” “That’ll be the day!”
Mat howled. The Socialist glared at him.
“Are you havin’ me on?” he demanded.
“No ruddy fear,” Mat said. “I say that’ll
be the day, an’ I mean it. Because when
the times comes blokes like you’ll have
no more to talk about an’ a man’ll be
able to have his lunch in peace.” Then
the whistle blew and everybody went back
to work.
SCIENCE will not back the statement
that cyclones move clockwise in the
Southern Hemisphere and anti-clockwise
in the Northern.
The wind-circulation round the centre
is in accordance with the law of Professor
Buys Ballot (1857), which states: “In
the Northern Hemisphere, if you stand
with your back to the wind, the pressure
is lower on your left hand than on your
right, whilst in the Southern Hemisphere
the reverse is true.” In other words, the
wind blows clockwise around and in to-
wards the cehtre of the system.
Identification of a low-pressure suffi-
ciently intense to be designated a cyclone,
typhoon or hurricane is easy, but there
are no rules for forecasting the variables
—movement, speed and life —although
in the Southern Hemisphere the track is
frequently from east to west and from
north to soutfP
Water down a plug-hole tends to follow
a clockwise spiral, more so if the hole is
small, but is easily diverted to run either
way.
A wandering human or animal tends
to follow a circle, and it would be interest-
ing to know if this also varies according
to hemisphere.
K. A.
THE OLD BARK HUT.
Oh, my name is Bob the Swagman, before
. you all I stand,
And I’ve had many ups and downs while
travelling through the land.
I once was well-to-do, my boys, but now
I’m all stumped up,
And I’m forced to go on rations in an
old bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
I’m forced to go on rations in an old
bark hut.
Ten pounds of flour, ten pounds of beef,
some sugar and some tea,
That’s all they give to a hungry man,
until the Seventh Day.
If you don’t be mighty sparing, you’ll go
with a hungry gut —
Fof that’s one of the great misfortunes in,
an old bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
For that’s one of the great misfortunes
in an old bark hut.
The bucket you boil your beef in has
to carry water, too,
And they’ll say you’re getting mighty
flash if you should ask for two.
I’ve a billy, and a pint-pot, and a broken-
handled cup,
And they all adorn the table in the old
bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
And they all adorn the table in the
old bark hut.
Faith, the table is not made of wood, as
many you have seen —
For if I had one half so good, I’d think
myself serene —
’Tis only an old sheet of bark —God
knows when it was cut —
It was blown from off the rafters of the
old bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
It was blown from off the rafters of
the old bark hut.
And of furniture, there’s no such thing,
’twas never in the place,
Except the stool I sit upon—and that’s an
old gin-case.
It does us for a safe as well, but you must
keep it shut,
Or the flies would make it canter round
the old bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
Or the flies would make it canter round
the old bark hut.
If you should leave it open, and the flies
should find your meat,
They’ll scarcely leave a single piece that’s
fit for man to eat.
But you mustn’t curse, nor grumble—-
what won’t fatten will fill up —
For what’s out of sight is out of mind
in an old bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
For what’s out of sight is out of mind
in an old bark hut.
In the summer-time when the weather’s
warm this hut is nice and cool,
And you’ll find the gentle breezes blow-
ing in through every hole.
You can leave the old door open, or you
can leave it shut,
There’s no fear of suffocation in the old
bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
There’s no fear of suffocation in the old
bark hut.
In the winter-time —preserve us all! —to
live in there’s a treat,
Especially when it’s raining hard, and
blowing wind and sleet.
The rain comes down the chimney, and
your meat is black with soot —
That’s a substitute for pepper in an old
bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
That’s a substitute for pepper in an
old bark hut.
I’ve seen the rain come in this hut just
like a perfect flood,
Especially through that great big hole
where once the table stood.
There’s not a blessed spot, me boys,
where you could lay your nut,
But the rain is sure to find you in the
old bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
But the rain is sure to find you in the
old bark hut.
So beside the fire I make me bed, and
there I lay me down,
And think myself as happy as the king
that wears a crown.
But as you’d be dozing off to sleep a flea
will wake you up,
That makes you curse the vermin in the
old bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
Which makes you curse the vermin in
the old bark hut.
Faith, such flocks of fleas you never saw,
they are so plump and fat,
And if you make a grab at one, he’ll
spit just like a cat.
Last night they got my pack of cards,
and were fighting for the cut —
I thought the devil had me in the old
bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
I thought the devil had me in the old
bark hut.
So now, my friends, I’ve sung my song,
and that as well as I could,
And I hope the ladies present won’t think
my language rude,
And all ye younger people, in the days
when you grow up,
Remember Bob the Swagman, and the
old bark hut.
In an old bark hut. In an old bark hut.
Remember Bob the Swagman, and the
old bark hut.


Experienced I Management of
ricultural and Pastoral Properties
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTB.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
TK^.19.35
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, has a wide association with the administration of rural properties.
It provides efficient management, safeguards ■ the interests of dependents,
and provides ample security for the performance of Trusts at a fixed and
moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £ 971,002.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., (?.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.B.
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Metropolitan Cement
SURROUNDED by an aroma
of "Labor” politics, Metro-
politan Cement, in spite of many
political favors granted to it, is
still —six-and-a-half years after
its optimistic flotation —slipping
further to the bad financially,
most of its original plans having
gone astray. The extraordinary
kindness of the Rural Bank of
N. S. Wales has been relied on
to carry the co.’s losses and throw
further money into plant in order
to make the original second-
hand purchase “come good.”
All to little avail so far as
financial results to date are con-
cerned. Last year, partly be-
cause manufacturing operations
were upset by the installation of
two new calcinators for the kilns,
with an interference to the year’s
clinker production (which fell
below the previous year’s level),
there was a loss of £211,593,
Compared with £107,767 in the
preceding term. In both years
only about £BO,OOO of deprecia-
tion was charged on fixed assets,
in the books now at £3,103,840,
and it would appear that the
Rural Bank is not overcharging
the co. in interest on overdraft.
The year began with an 0.-d. of
£3,208,683 and finished with the
figure at £3,278,365. On this
and £lOO,OOO of debentures the
interest-bill was £150,415 for the
year (up £17,432).
In spite of the consistent de-
mand for cement during most of
the period in which the co. has
been in production, it seems now
to be in a position of great diffi-
culty. Apart from the high ulti-
mate cost of installing a second-
hand plant (bought in the
U.S.A.), there appears to have
been a lack of balance in the
productive capabilities of the
various sections, and this the co.
is now endeavoring to make
good. But another heavy dis-
ability the co. is carrying arises
from its transport arrangements.
The whole plan on which the
project was based has misfired
badly. The intention was to
bring the raw materials to the
Sydney metropolitan area and
make the cement there and so
take advantage of the N.S.W.
Government railways’ freight-
concessions on ores as opposed
to manufactured cement.
< In the end the works were set
up at Maldon, near Picton.
Coal is brought from the co's
colliery at Berrima, limestone
from itS Marulan quarries. In
the latest report of the directors
it is stated that “cartage of the
co.’s raw materials is the biggest
individual item in our costs;
your directors are investigating
proposals for alternative methods
of transport which would reduce
this expenditure in a very sub-
stantial manner.” If they have
any success in what is clearly
a very acute problem they will
deserve congratulation.
Interest and depreciation
charges, though plainly on the
light side, are a weighty burden
in relation to the co.’s output of
cement. The undertaking is
heavily overcapitalised in rela-
tion to its competitors, and
cement prices which others in the
industry find quite profitable
show a loss in the case of Metro-
politan. What will happen when
the co. gets a clear production-
run is not clear. The board has
hopes:
With the calcinators and other
additional plant operating since
April 30, 1955, the co.’s trading
results should show an improved
position over the current twelve
months’ operations. Increased out-
put is essential to place the co. on
a profitable basis. To this end the
installation of a third kiln and an-
cillary equipment has been author-
ised and the work actuaUy com-
menced. It is expected that toe kiln
will be in operation within twelve
months, from which time the co.
should commence to show profits.
There are still many ifs and
buts about the co.’s prospects.
The annual report does not say
what output will be if all the
plant gets into balanced, satis-
factory production, and it is
therefore difficult to gauge
accurately what the unusually
heavy overhead which the co.
must continue to bear will be
per ton of cement produced. The
capital cost of the plant per ton
of capacity will undoubtedly be
very high, however, and in no
year to date has the profit on
trading been sufficient to meet
the interest-bill, let alone
depreciation-charges.
As can be seen from the fol-
lowing table, the Rural Bank has
more than £3 at risk in the
enterprise for every £ put up by
shareholders:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,004,306 £1,004,306
Debentures .. 100,000 100,000
Overdraft . . 3,208,683 3,278,365
Creditors .. 51,425 66,521
£4,364,414 £4,449,192-
Freeholds .. 139,164 J 39.912
Cement works,
quarry, colliery,
plant, etc. .. 2,888,531 2,964,928
Shares sub. co. .. 226,844 226,844
Shares other co. .. 5,265 5,265
Stock .. . . 529,788 292,938
Debtors .. .. 102,068 136,150
Cash .. .. 504 312
Intangibles .. 330,030 330,030
P. and 1. debit .. 142,220 353,813
£4,364,414 £4,449,192
Even a first glance shows the
great expenditure involved for
a comparatively small produc-
tion and earning potential,
especially when compared with
others in the industry. In the
event of any general overpro-
duction of . cement which
certainly is not yet in sight—
old-established cos. with a low
capitalisation per ton of produc-
tion-capacity could make con-
tinued existence particularly hard
for Metropolitan Cement.
The £1 ord. shares dropped by
Is. 6d. following publication of
the latest accounts. At 3s. 6d.
they are a gamble on the course
of many future events.
Sterling and U.K. Election
From Throgmorton - street,
London, May 6: “I have just
come back from a brief visit to
the Continent, where I found
well-entrenched confidence in
sterling. However, this is an
attitude which would be
drastically * reversed if •* the
Socialists were to win the forth-
coming election. At the moment
my view is that the Conservatives
will be successful.”
Anthony Hordern
The writing-up of £2,675,519
in the fixed assets of Anthony
Hordern and Sons, Ltd., Sydney
departmental storekeeper and a
national institution, has brought
the book-value of net tangible
assets (including £875,000
of depreciation and other
reserves taken into account for
the first time as general reserves)
to over 88s. per ord. share.
Paid capital is £2,000,000 in
1,250,000 £1 ords. and 750,000
7|- p.c. cum. prefs. This is the
second writing-up of assets in
the past decade —there was a
comparatively minor revaluation
of plant in 1945, when, as a
result, all intangible assets,
including goodwill, w'ere written-
out of the books.
In the term to February last
profit was equal to 19.5 p.c. on
“B oy — you’ll never beat this rap!”
ord. capital, compared with
12.4 p.c. in the preceding year.
The ord. div. was lifted from
8 p.c. to 10 p.c. •
After several weeks of specu-
lative activity, the ords. shot up
from 335. 6d. to 38s. on the day
following the revaluation
announcement. The market for
retailer shares is very “takeover-
conscious” at the moment.
Exmouth Gulf Structure
L. Owen summarises: The
announcement by Wapet that
improved seismographic equip-
ment is being assembled at Perth
for use in the further examina-
tion of Rough Range is a
courageous, though tacit, admis-
sion of the shortcomings of the
early, and even of some of the
more recent, geophysical work in
that area.
Rough Range is now recog-
nised by all concerned to be
very different from the “perfect”
structure envisaged by most of
the reporters prior to drilling.
Unfortunately, this “perfect”
structure myth persisted even
after the strike, in Rough Range
No. 1 well, of a long-distance-
migrated, filtered and inspissated
crude oil at the 3600 ft. horizon.
The obvious inference from
that strike was not (as the
popular and some “expert”
imagination had it) that a com-
mercial “pool” had been pene-
trated, but that the oil was part
of a “fossil” seep which occurred
along the trace of a fault-zone up
which the oil had migrated to the
then surface at some time
between late Permian and early
Cretaceous.
I make no apology for
reiterating an opinion so often
expressed and subsequently
shown to be in conformity with
the results of drilling and testing
in all the Rough Range wells—
but I do deplore that the almost
total disregard of the correct
forecasts, given should have led
to the expenditure of so much
time and money (which could
more usefully have been
employed in other work) without
tangible result and the con-
sequent loss of faith in Australian
oil potentialities. I cannot stress
too strongly my conviction that
much more time spent at out-
crop, before attempting to
interpret geophysical data from
what is, admittedly, a highly
complex structure with a very
involved geological history,
would pay handsome dividends,
however up-to-date the geo-
physical equipment may be and
however competent the observers
and interpreters.
Even today, good mud-bricks
can’t be made without straw!
One hopeful aspect in Wapet’s
search for oil is the increasing
emphasis placed on structure-
drilling ; but here again the
value of slim-hole data would
be vastly augmented by
exhaustive outcrop - studies,
carried out, of course, by
geologists experienced in this
specialised class of work.
Additional confirmation of
the “fossil-seep” hypothesis
comes, rather unexpectedly,
from the unsuccessful attempt to
reopen the 3600 ft. oil-impreg-
nated sand-lense in Rough Range
No. 1 well. It is highly improb-
able that the complete degree of
sealing of this deposit by cemen-
tation could have been accom-
plished except where a shatter-
zone existed. And it may be
noted in passing that the success,
or otherwise, in striking oil in an
offset-well (even only 30ft.
away), as is now being attempted,
will depend largely on the
orientation of the offset.
The failure of Cape Range
No. 2 well to discover any oil at
the Birdrong Sand horizon
within that structure is still
further confirmation of the fact
that the presence of oil at that
horizon in the Rough Range
No. 1 well is fortuitous. The
striking of it was, indeed, a
“million-to-one chance,” but not
in the sense meant by the
originator of that statement in
December, 1953.
Let it be clearly understood,
however, that all this does not
damn the hopes of worth-while
oil in Australia. There is still
plenty of virgin ground to be
explored, and Rough Range
itself, when its true structure is
more completely understood and
its geological history is better
revealed —or even by lucky
chance —may yet yield com-
mercial petroleum.
Selected areas on the main-
land are still a good oil-risk, and
none will be better pleased than
I if, and when, success is
achieved. That has been the
object, from the start, of the
critical articles which have
appeared under my name.
Longreach Oil
The first bit of excitement in
the oil-share market for months
came last wdek when Longreach
Oil, Ltd., reported a showing of
“free oil” in a core from its
No. 4 well in the town of Long-
reach (Q.). The 2s. 6d.-paid
shares jumped from 6d. to 3s.
overnight. The core was takdn
from between 3220 ft. and 3226 ft.
A test later gave negative results,
and the shares dropped back to
6d. After further reports of oil-
traces they firmed again.
A hole drilled at Longreach
during 1929-31, about 500yds.
from the present No. 4 well,
struck dry gas at 2336 ft.
and 3229 ft., wax at 2910 ft., and
some oil at 3227 ft. Bedrock was
encountered at 3254 ft.
Westland Oil’s permit area
adjoins that of Longreach Oil in
the town itself, but it has been
drilling at Warbreccan, 110 miles
to the south-west, where the
basement is deeper. It is now
drilling its second hole.
J. Gadsden Aust., Ltd.
As suggested in The Bulletin
of March 2, J. Gadsden Aus-
tralia, Ltd., has raised its interim
to the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., as
against 7 p.c. in the last full
year. As usual, the distribution
is tax-free. On an 8 p.c. basis
there is still about 2\ years of
tax-free distributions left in
reserves. The co. is in the can-
making and general container
business, and has been a leader
in the industry for 75 years. Most
of its expansion up to 1954 was
financed out of profits.


AN HISTORIC
DOUBLE-SIZE
WOOL ISSUE
of
WILL BE PUBLISHED
ON JUNE 1.
Ninepence, as usual .
Your Surest Investment
at
4 Sty
4/0
per annum
IS
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
CASH AND CONVERSION
LOAN
GUARANTEED BY THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT •
The Sydney Water Board is the largest public utility of its kind in Australia.
The value of its fixed assets exceeds £100,000,000. Every investment is secured
on the Board’s annual income, now £8,500,000. Principal and interest are
also guaranteed by the State Government.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT
IN N.S.W., QUEENSLAND, TASMANIA
AND WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Subscriptions, interest, and repayment of principal at maturity are free of
exchange in terms of the Prospectus. Half-yearly interest may be credited to
your bank account.
CONVERSION OF EOAN No. 40 (maturing Ist June, 1955). Holders have only until
28tli May to convert to the new Eoan and gain HIGHER interest.
INVEST PROMPTLY AND PROFITABLY!
Apply at your nearest Commonwealth Trading Bank, the Sydney Water Board, or
through any Stockbroker. Instalments are Ask for a Prospectus and
application form.
Issued at par for £1,775,000, Eoan No. 134 closes on or before 28th May, 1955.
Underwritten by Charles A. Ord & Minnett, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney, Members of
The Sydney Stock Exchange.
YOUR de-luxe
Winter Holiday
with
realistic economy*
LIVE IN AUSTRALIA'S FRIENDLIEST HOTEL
PERSONAL ATTENTION IS OUR HALLMARK!
Swim, play tennis, dance every night, ski
(1 hrs. run) —Live in luxury—walk in glorious
surroundings. Hobart boasts 5.8 hrs. sunshine
daily—annual rainfall below Sydney or
Melbourne. Boom and Breakfast from 40/-.
Inclusive terms from 57/6 daily—May to Sept.
Special rates for conferences up to 150.
Write for Free Booklet.
WREST POINT
RIVIERA HOTEL
HOBART, TASMANIA.
Fuitti in th e
Future
n
Water is so vital in the Australian economy
that any scientific attempt to put more of it into the
drier regions of the world must claim our immedi-
ate attention.
So we can take much interest in the fact that
the United States Congress has voted two million
dollars for research into the production of fresh
water from the sea.
The directive to the laboratories is to find a
formula that will turn salt water into water that
can be used for agricultural, industrial, and other
purposes; not only that, but to see whether salt or
brackish water can be made a substitute where it is
now thought that only fresh water can be used.
America is primarily pushing this work for
its own urgent purpose: the satisfying of future
demands for water for its growing cities and vastly
expanding industry. But the whole world would
benefit from the result.
Come to think of it, the wholesale condensing
of sea water seems a relatively simple hypothesis
alongside the other nature-dividing conquests of
Man in our time —the atom, for instance.
The ocean has water in boundless supply.
Unlock this key, and only the pipelines and pumps
would be needed to carry it to the parched interiors
of any land.
Think what that would mean to Australia —in
productive development, in a more distributed
population.
\
The long reticulation of water is no “pipe
dream.” More than half a century ago—in 1903
—the Mundaring pipeline was opened to deliver
water to Kalgoorlie, Western Australia.
It was piped 348 miles, partly across desert, to
that rich and famous goldfield from a catchment
nearly 400 miles away. • -
Water made Kalgoorlie. And I believe that
water for the inland —whether it be rain stored
now or sea water condensed in the future —is going
to make Australia.
T
//MtsA
Q,e'te^
7
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Paper and Heavy-water
NOT long ago the centre of the
North Island of New
Zealand was an unwanted waste
of scrub-covered pumiceland.
Then private enterprise, followed
by Government activity, trans-
formed it into a great potential
sterling-earner and dollar-saver.
Towns, railways, roads are
thrusting themselves into the
heart of a great asset —the largest
man-made forests of the world.
The other day a match fired a
steam-raising plant at the huge
Tasman Pulp and Paper project,
setting the spark to the paper-
mills which will soon roll into
production. From the paper-
making machines will come
75,000 tons of newsprint a year,
a stream of paper running for
24 hours a day at 23 m.p.h. A
saving of millions of dollars and
unassessed sterling-earnings are
expected. By June-July, things
should be in full swing.
Whakatane Board Mills (card-
board) and N.Z. Forest Products
(softboard and kraft-paper) are
also in the field, but there has
been planned co-operation.
There are many bitter memories
of Maoriland forest ventures in
the past, but things look like
working out this time.
On the other side of the
thermal area, £NZ6 million will
be spent by the Maoriland Gov-
ernment and British capital
before N.Z.’s first atomic-age
contribution comes to light with
dollar and sterling earnings.
Bores have tapped geothermal
steam, and this will be harnessed
to a power-plant. N.Z. scientists,
with Harwell help, have worked
out a method of producing
heavy - water, an important
ingredient for atomic-power
reactors, by a special distillation
process; present cost of heavy-
water is nearly £5O a pint; at
Wairakei it will cost ££s.
Significantly, overseas capital
has largely assisted the paper and
heavy-water projects.
Interest-rates
Loan-hungry local bodies are
wooing Maoriland investors with
4 p.c. loans. Capital shies at the
offer. Big, sprawling Auckland
had talks with a Treasury big-
wig about its difficulties in raising
the £3,000,000 it wants for a
multiplicity of purposes.
Changes are likely in the present
set-up for raising municipal
loans, because the problem will
have to be attacked pretty soon.
N.Z. local bodies want over £2O
million for street works alone,
and they must catch up with
deferred maintenance, provide
modern transport services, water-
supplies and sewerage-services—
the hundred-and-one things
demanded by rapidly-growing
populations. Many millions will
have to be found, just for local
bodies. But the Government
wants capital, too.
Expanding Economy
Statisticians have figured that
N.Z.’s population will increase
from two to three millions in the
next 20 years. Prime Minister
Holland listed problems this
increase will bring with it. Apart
from housing, £7O million will
have to be spent on highways;
20 Karapiros and 12 Roxburghs
(mighty hydro schemes of the
North and South Islands) will
have to be built to meet an
eightfold increase in the demand
for power; 6000 more class-
rooms and more than 3000
hospital-beds will have to be
provided.
Present and future Govern-
ments face a formidable bill.
There will have to be a big
increase in production, particu-
. larly primary. Maoriland spends
so much on social services, with
resultant high taxation, that
industry is left with little to
plough back. New techniques
are needed. Aerial topdressing
has pointed the way, private
operators having added 20
million to the farmers’ cheque
already. Private enterprise must
discard a lot of present out-
moded production-methods. The
protection-through-tariffs many
local industries still require
indicates that sections of
Maoriland manufacturers aren t
as streamlined as they should be.
Costs are too high, even after
conceding the extra charge of
the 40-hour week and high
wages.
There’s going to be some
scraping the coffers before N.Z.
can pay the bill for present and
future capital works and to
provide for increased production.
Private industry faces a future
full of opportunity, but it must
have capital—and labor.
Eight years ago there were
30,000 vacant jobs in N.Z.
Around 100,000 immigrants have
since been added to the labor-
force, and there are still nearly
30,000 vacancies. This worries
chamber-of-commerce and indus-
trial leaders. Overfull-employ-
ment causes wastage of capital
plant and adds to costs, they say.
More immigrants to fill the
empty jobs isn’t the answer. One
of the root causes of the drift of
labor lies in the housing shortage.
More and more employers find
they must provide houses for
key employees, and transport to
and from the factory. It’s time
industry and State put their heads
together and worked out a
planned-housing scheme—hous-
ing jjreas near industrial areas
or near convenient transport, and
so on.' There must be a better
distribution of labor—but that’s
a pipedream, because N.Z. labor
hates regimentation. As for the
factory-methods and planning
wou.d help compensate for that.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you-desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
F. H. Way (Chairman) •
Dr. G. M. Barron , 0.8. E.
( V ice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
G. B. Kater
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officer:
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.IOO.IS
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
York Motors (Hold’g), Ltd. (Syd.)
TX/ILL the reorganisation of Nuffield
** franchises for N7S. Wales jeopardise
York’s prospects of maintaining a 30 p.c.
distribution? The market answers the
question by pricing the f.-p. ss. shares at
17s. 6d. as against an equivalent 16s. 9d.
a year ago—the old £1 shares were split
into ss. units in November last. The
return at 17s. 6d. is 8.5 p.c. so long as
the 30 p.c. distribution continues, or 7.1
p.c. on a 25 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 19s. 4d. Obviously anticipations
are that whatever the co. loses in one way
it will pick up partly or substantially, in
another. The 30 p.c. distribution, of
which 5 p.c. is labelled bonus, has been
an annual event for the last four years,
with comfortable margins.
In N. S. Wales York has lost the
country and half the Sydney franchise for
Nuffield products, and acquired half the
city franchises for Riley and Wolseley
cars. Nuffield (Aust.) Pty. has itself
taken over the country distribution, and
the other half of the city trade has passed
to Peter Lloyd Industries.
Two new offshoots —Lancaster Motors
Pty. and Rose Motor Pty.—will handle
York’s distribution of Morris cars and
commercial vehicles, and Wolseley and
Riiey cars and Nuffield tractors in the
Sydney and Parramatta areas respectively.
Two other subsidiaries —York Motors
Pty. and Dominion Motors Pty. Ltd. —
hold franchises covering the whole of
N. S. Wales for. Chrysler, Rolls-Royce,
Bentley, Singer, Studebaker and Willys
cars and commercial vehicles, as well as
for Fargo trucks and Ansaldo crawler
tractors.
York’s Queensland franchises, which
have not been disturbed, are handled by
another two offshoots —U.K. Motors Pty.,
which distributes Austin cars and trucks,
and Dominion Motors (Q.) Pty., which
trades in Willys cars and commercial
vehicles and Oliver tractors and farm
equipment.
The surplus funds that will become
available in N. S. Wales are to be used
to finance hire-purchase transactions of
the group there, through Glasgow In-
vestments Pty., formerly a non-operating
subsidiary. Also the N. S. Wales fran-
chise for a new medium-priced car, with
“scope for development,” is soon to be
taken over. And, through its holding
(about 30,000 shares) in Howard Auto-
Cultivators, York has received about
18,000 shares in the profitable Ausdis
Holding co., previously Austin Distribu-
tors, Ltd. (Melb.), which has just acquired
the ( Australian assembly- and distributing-
rights for Simca-Aronde cars. -
York doesn’t broadcast details of its
vehicle sales, but the Morris and
Austin agencies have been the
moneyspinners since war ended.
According to Government statistics,
new motor-vehicle registrations last
year were: Morris in N. S. Wales 5818
(up 688), of which 2874 were metro-
politan, and Austin in Queensland 3312
(up 516). On the basis of these figures,
appearances are that, under the new
arrangement, the co. will lose about 75
p.c. of its Morris vehicle sales, which will
be partly offset by the new jointly-held
Riley and Wolseley franchises, and by
other developments already outlined.
Last term turnover of the York group,
to which sales of parts and servicing, etc.,
contributed substantially, increased by 21
p.c., reaching £14,400,000. Gross profit
was £1,796,529 (up £203,588), of which
exes, took £1,006,197 (up £67,344), depre-
ciation £19,909 (up £1756) and tax pro-
vision £268,059 (up £45,224). The net
result was thus £502,364, a gain of
£89,264:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Year. f Dividends ——> To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. - Total, serves. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ . £
1950.. 995,669 25 149,000 846,569 1,265,474
Added intangibles, £1430 .. ..1,264,044
1951.. 929,?66 30 204,000 726,256 1,989,300
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 1,969,300
Less net adjustments, £4B .. .. 1,969,262
1952.. 480,521 30 223,833 256,688^,225,940
Add net adjustments, £689 .. ..2,226,629
1953.. 413,100 30 272,000 141,100 2,367,729
1954.. 502,364 # 30 272,060 230,364 2,598,093
* After deducting intangibles, written out of
accounts in 1953.
The £502,364 was 55.4 p.c. on capital as
against 45.5, 53, 136.7 and 146.4 p.c. back
to 1950 —in 1952 shareholders put up
£226,666 of fresh share-capital.
The board gives no hint as to what
rate Of distribution can be expected for
the current term. With things as they
are net earnings might not fall much, if
anything, short of 30 p.c. on capital; but
money will be wanted in the business for
development of new projects, so repetition
of the 30 p.c. distribution is by no means
certain.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect the
year’s bigger trading, and a sound finan-
cial position:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital . . £906,666 £906,666 £906,666
Reserves .. 2,226,704 2,367,729 2,598,093
Creditors, etc. .. 654,033 1,023,683 709,059
Tax provision .. 562,090 223,746 268,763
Staff fund .. 20,000 25,000 25,000,
£4,369,493 £4,546,824 £4,507,581
Freeholds, etc. .. 457,840 596,865 584,087
Plant .. . . 169,680 158,983 161,302
Stocks* .. .. 2,559,068 2,452,528 1,907,505
Debtorsf .. . . 989,428 1,007,319 1,269,625
Investments .. 68,210 68,177 68,177
Cash .. .. 124,503 262,952 516,885
Goodwill .. .. 764
£4,369,493 £4,646,824 £4,507,581
•After deducting special reserve, £200,000.
f After deducting specific reserve, £60,000.
The large holding of cash (up £2,53,933),
which would be further strengthened after
the close of accounts, places the co. in a
strong position to develop new interests.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd. .
'THE co.’s scrip possesses all the in-
gredients of a sound industrial
equity, and the business continues to
move steadily from strength to strength.
But the board, which has always been
conservative in matters of finance, has
not hastened to meet the market’s san-
guine anticipations of benefits to share-
holders.
The price of the f.-p. £1 shares has,
therefore, fluctuated within narrow limits,
and the immediate return has remained
comparatively moderate. Over the last
12 months the price has eased from 455.
of 425., due to the strengthening of
interest-rates generally. At the lower
figure the immediate return is 5.3 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div., which has been an an-
nual event for the last six years—lo p.c.
Fiji is equal to 11.1 p.c. in Australian
currency at the present rate of exchange.
Net tangible cover is 48s. 5d., and some
of the assets are believed to be worth
considerably more than their book-value.
The investor who looks for 6.-3 p.c. on
his money, or thereabouts, counts on a 12
p»c. distribution (13.3 p.c. Australian cur-
rency), or a one-for-four bonus share-
issue and maintenance of the div. at 10
p.c., either of which would be a com-
fortable matter on the basis of earnings
over the last three years.
At lanuary 31, 1955, reserves stood in
the books at £1,067,459, or £317,459 more
than paid capital. And £582,151 of the
reserves came from undisclosed sources
since 1943. Also shareholders’ funds need
turn in only 4.1 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. on
capital alone, whereas last term’s £113,137
of profit was equal to 6.2 p.c. on these
funds. No bonus-scrip has been scat-
tered to date, nor has there been any
writing-up of the book-value of assets.
For the 20 years to 1940 divs. averaged
6.1 p.c., then 7.6 p.c. for the nine years
to 1949, followed by a steady 10 p.c. to
the close of last accounts.
Although the trend of commodity prices
was downward last term, copra and other
island produce continued to fetch satis-
factory figures, and the co. reports general
improvement in the overall volume of
trade at all centres, which, of course,
helped shipping earnings along, too. The
spring in gross profit (£530,836) was
£75,438. Exes. (£337,785) took £34,899 of
the gain, and after allowing for deprecia-
tion (£58,196, up £22,817), bad debts
(£12,682, up £4877) and contribution to
the staff fund (£9036, up £631), the net
result was £12,213 stronger:
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. f —Dividends— N serves. serves.
1950.. 96,702 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,702 848,897
Unexplained addition, £44,111 .. 893,008
1951.. 99,573 10 p.c. = 75,000 24,573 917,581
Unexplained addition, £16,463 .. 934,044
1952. . 96,441 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,441 955,485
Unexplained addition, £9563 .. 965,048
1953. .106,831 10 p.c. = 75,000 31,831 996,879
. Unexplained reduction, £4865 .. 992,014
1954. .100,924 10 p.c. = 75,000 25,924 1,017,938
Unexplained addition, £11,384 .. 1,029,322
1955. .113,137 10 p.c. = 76,000 38,137 1,067,459
The £113,137 of profit claimed was 15.4
p.c. on capital as against 13.4, 14.2, 12.8,
13.3 and 12.9 p.c. back-to 1950. That
leaves out of the figuring £11,384 dropped
from somewhere into the general equali-
sation reserve (now £580,240).
A sound financial structure and con-
tinued growth of the organisation are
features of balance-sheet figures:
1953. 1955.
Capital .. .. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Reserves .. .. 996,879 1,017,938 1,067,459
Owing to subsidiary 624,593 643,377 688,912
Creditors, etc. .. 875,272 850,020 886,168
Final div, .. 37,500 37,500 37,500
Total .. .. £3,284,244 £3,298,835.£3,430,039
Properties, ship-
ping, etc. .. 238,249 251,395 297,088
Shares subsid. .. 314,960 314,960 341,960
Investments .. 813,571 944,425 942,162
Stocks, etc. .. 1,497,892 1,239,430 1,254,407
Book debts .. 270,944 395,148 488,233
Cash .. 148,628 153,477 133,189
Total .. .. £3,284,244 £3,298,835 £3,430,039
To meet net additions totalling £153,735
to fixed assets (up £45,963), stocks (up
£14,977) and book-debts (up £93,083),
only £36,148 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors and £45,535
to the amount owing to the subsidiary,
which was formed in 1948 to take over
the parent’s assets in the New Hebrides.
Union Trustee Co.
THE trustee cos. continue to render a
wide range of essential and complex
services, which call for highly specialised
knowledge and experience, at moderate
charges which are yielding very little in
the way of profit.
From the testator’s point of view, the
altered, and still changing, conditions of
today call for a revision of all but
recently-made wills, especially in relation
to investments. The prescribed list of
trustee investments makes it very difficult
for a trustee to secure a reasonable income
for the life tenant, and at the same time
keep the capital intact for the remainder-
man, unless the settlor “contracts out”
of the Act by inserting a clause giving the
trustee special powers in relation to in-
vestment. The cos. keep each trust port-
folio under constant review by a staff of
experts, who are at all times ready with
advice on the many new problems now
constantly cropping up.
Apart from returns from the co.’s own
funds, which are a protection for clients
as well as a source of income for share-
holders, net earnings depend mainly upon
the relative levels of charges, costs and
the volume of business. Pre-war expand-
ing business more than took care of tne
moderate growth in costs. After the war
costs began to win the race, due mainly
to the effects of inflationary pres-
sures on wage-rates. The Union’s
profits fell from an average of
£13,098 for the six years to 1940
to £10,447 for the next six years, and to
£9527 for the the seven years to the close
of accounts in 1953. Indeed, for the two
years to 1953 the co. was handling the
trustee section of its business at less than
cost.
The outlook changed in 1952, thanks to
belated amendment of various State
Trustee Acts providing for small increases
in the scale of statutory charges The
new scale, like the old one, is static and
applies only to new business, which means
that the full benefit to' net earnings will
be spread over a period. Whether the
effects of creeping inflation upon wage-
rates will rob the cos. of the benefits
provided by the amended Acts remains
to be seen. A more equitable solution of
the problem would have been a formula
providing for a sliding-scale of charges
based upon officially ascertained costs, as
the “Wild Cat” pointed out at the time.
One of Australia’s largest corporate
trustees, the Union operates in the three
eastern States, and has strong connections
in pastoral circles. For many years there
has been a steady growth in the volume
of business (amount not disclosed) en-
trusted to its care. Last term commis-
sions (£289,605, up £16,395) and rents, etc.
(£18,732, up £757) turned in ah extra
£17,152:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes. Earnings.
1950 .. .. £196,568 £183,340 93.2
.1951 .. .. 221,077 209,126 94.6
1952 .. .. 268,483 260,999 97.2
1953 .. \ 281,965 274,497 97.3
1954 .. .. 291,>76 281,133 96.5
1955 .. .. 308,328 294,102 95.4
Exes, took £12,269 of the increase, leav-
ing the net result £4183 better at £14,228,
which, with one exception (1945), is the
best showing for the last 24 years. It
was 10.3 p.c. on capital as against 7.3, 5.4,
8.7 and 9.6 p.c. back to 1950. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was 6.1 p.c.,
which suggests that the trustee section is
still turning in very little profit. A point
was added to the div., making it 8 p.c.
and the £3226 that remained lifted
reserves to £95,286.
The co.’s £137,500 of paid capital is
in 100,000 shares of £2 10s. paid to
275. 6d. each—of the difference £1 is a
reserve liability callable only if needed
in the event of liquidation. The capital
and reserves, together with provision
for taxation, etc. (£26,652) are repre-
sented by freeholds (£163,575), book-debts
(£883) and Government securities and
cash (£100,480).
Doubtful of the future trend of costs,
the market prices the scrip at 325. (275.
a year ago) to return 6.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is 465. 6d.
Goliath Portland Cement
/CONSUMPTION of cement in Tas-
mania has risen from 10,000 tons in
1936 to 96,000 tons last year, and is
expected to steadily increase for some
time to come. Goliath has virtually a
monopoly of the trade in its home State,
and its plant, at Railton, is alongside good
shale, clay and limestone deposits, which
means much so far as costs are con-
cerned. And alongside the cement-works
is an asbestos-cement factory, put up in
1947, but output is still below capacity..
Last term the cement kilns, which oper-
ated to capacity, turned out 124,000 tons
(up 10,000 tons) cement. The surplus
oyer local requirements found a ready
market on the mainland, chiefly in Vic-
toria, where some of the asbestos-cement
products are sold v too. But one of the
kilns —which accounts for about 20 p.c.
of total output —is old and not as efficient


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins .Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Qverseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore. Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
OJION
A/*
H
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors:
SIR VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE.
A. C. MAITLAND,
Managing Director.
N. E. MANIOrV.
Manager.
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Commonwealth of Australia
Dept, of Labour and National Service
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NATIONAL SERVICE ACT 1951-1953
BRITISH SUBJECTS and HEW AUSTRALIANS
THE UNDERMENTIONED MALE PERSONS ORDINARILY RESIDENT IN AUS-
TRALIA AND NOT EXEMPT UNDER THE ACT FROM LIABILITY TO REGISTER
ARE REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN
18th MAY and Ist JUNE, 1955
BRITISH SUBJECTS
who have attained or will attain the age of T 8 years
between Ist, January, 1955, and 30th June, 1955,
inclusive
NEW AUSTRALIANS
— 1 '—
(NOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
AND NATURALIZED BRITISH SUBJECTS NOT ALREADY REGISTERED
Male Persons who are not British Subjects, and Naturalized
British Subjects not already registered, who attained the age
of 18 years between IST JANUARY, 1954, 'and 30TH
JUNE, 1954 (inclusive) and were in Australia on 18TH
MAY, 1954.
A person who intends to make his home in ,Australia is regarded as
ordinarily resident in Australia as from the .time of his arrival. A person
who is absent from Australia during the period within which he is required
to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
ANY PERSON WHO IS REQUIRED TO REGISTER AND WHO FAILS TO
DO SO IS LIABLE TO THE PENALTIES PRESCRIBED UNDER THE ACT.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Act,
- (c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S. 1) are available at all Money Order Post
Offices and District Employment Offices. Addresses of the latter offices are
in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are in the
Registration Form and the Sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it.
N.5.R.3.93.45
as it might be. So it has been
decided to instal a new unit with
a potential capacity of 95,000
tons p.a., lifting aggregate plant
capacity to 190,000 tons p.a.,
thus placing the co. in a posi-
tion to meet anticipated demand
in the foreseeable future.
Work on the new plant will not
begin for some time. To help
meet the outlay 414,586 new 10s.
ords. are to be issued at par
toward the end of 1955 —one for
three to those on the ord.
register and two for three to
holders of pref. shares. That will
lift paid capital to £830,073, of
which £143,092 will carry a
cumulative 7 p.c. The pref. div.
and 8.3 p.c. to the ords. would
then call for £14,255 less profit
than was claimed last term.
This and other things enhance
the attractiveness of the scrip as
i holding proposition.
On an 8.3 p.c. div. basis, the
ords. at the current price of
17s. 6d. (14s. a year ago) give an
immediate return of 4.7 p.c., or
5.2 p.c. at the ex-rights price of
15s. 9d. The investor who looks
for 6.4 p.c. on his money counts
on a 10 p.c. distribution, which
was more than earned last term ;
and that makes no allowance for
what the £207,293 of fresh
ord. capital may contribute to
the pool.
After setting aside the usual
£lO,OOO for depreciation, £59,112
(up £4938) for taxation and send-
ing £40,000 (up £5000) to plant-
renewal reserve (now £200,000),
the board claimed a profit of
£81,284 (up £10,352):
/ Dividends
Net Pref. Be-
Sept.,Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
’5O. .39,563 10,016 11.1 = 28,782 110,038
Bevaluation freeholds, £202,797 312,835
Keserves capitalised, £127,917 184,918
Add plant res., etc., £20,023.. 204,941
’51..31,174 10,016 6.6 = 25,583 200,516
Add plant reserve, £30,000 .. 230,516
’52..45,271 10,016 7.5= 28,782 236,990
Add plant res., etc., £35,014.. 272,004
’53..70,932 10,016 8.3 = 38,370 294,550
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. 292,550
Add plant reserve, £40,000.. 382,550
’54..81,284 10,016 8.3 = 39,974 363,844
The £81,284 covered the pref.
div. and 14.8 p.c. on ord. capital
as it now stands, compared with
13.1, 9.2 and 5.4 p.c. for the
three preceding years. Too much
notice need not be taken of the
drop in the div. from 11 p.c. in
1950 to 6.6 p.c. in 1951, because
it followed a 50 p.c. bonus scrip-
issue. The board “deemed it
advisable” to keep the div. at
8.3 p.c. last term, because of the
heavy capital outlay ahead.
The financial position was
further strengthened, the
improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£381,358) being
£62,813:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954.
Preference .. £143,092 £143,092
Ordinary . / 479,688 479,688
reserves .. .. 292,550 363,844
Final divs. .. 28,993 28,993
Creditors .. .. 85,602 60,515
Tax provision .. 60,000 65,000
£1,089,925 £1,141,132
Freeholds, plant .. 481,119 488,716
Shares other cos. 115,669 116,550
Stocks .. .. 280,565 257,061
Debtors .. .. 138,730 164,685
Cash, Gov. bonds 73,842 114,120
£1,089,925 £1,141,132
Shareholdings include 25,000
f.-p. £1 shares in North Aus-
tralian Cement (Townsville),
which commenced production in
October last, and a half interest
(£74,500) in an asbestos-mine in
Southern Rhodesia Humes,
Ltd., is the other partner. Later
it is proposed to form a public
co. to take over and work this
ore-body.
Kundang Tin Dredging
After the Jap occupation of
Malaya, the co. was left with
292 acres of paydirt but no
dredge—it had been, dismantled
and removed. However, a couple
of years ago, London-controlled
Taiping Consolidated was
induced to work the area with
one of its spare machines. The
agreement provided for payment
to Kundang of £66,500 for
dredging rights, which has been
received and placed to reserves,
as well as for sharing of annual
profits on a 50-50 basis.
The reassembled dredge got to
work in September, 1953, and
has given a good account of itself
since. For the year to December
31 last it handled 3,274,000 c.y.
(45.8 acres) of 0.441 b. ground at
an average cost of 9.52 d. per
yard. The yield of tin concen-
trates was 646.4 tons (assay
75.9 p.c.), containing 490.8 tons
metallic tin, which realised an
average of £694.3 per ton.
Kundang’s share of the profit
(£147,050) was £73,525. After
allowing for sundry receipts and
exes., including £28,000 written
off cost of dredge removal, etc.,
and £ll,OOO for taxation, net
profit was £35,437, equal to 28.3
p.c. on capital. Divs. (after
deducting 30 p.c. Malayan tax)
totalling £35,000, or 28 p.c., were
paid.
When the books closed the co.
was holding £159,224 in cash,
debtors’ balances, etc., to meet
current liabilities (including final
div.) of £18,375. The property,
in which there is about five years
remaining life at last term’s rate
of digging, is in at £17,000, and
the cost of dredge removal
(originally £77,024) had been
written down to £51,924.
Average London spot-price of
tin for 1954 was £S7I9 per ton.
The figure for January, 1955,
was £5693, and for the next two
months £5712.5; on May 12 it
stood at £S7I4. Under the pro-
posed international tin agree-
ment (yet to be ratified) the aim
is to keep price - fluctuations
within the £S6SO-£SBOO bracket.
World outlook for the metal
is one of overproduction. Much
will depend upon whether the
U.S. Government continues to
stockpile through its Indonesian
contracts, and upon whether it
closes down the Texas smelter
on June 30 next, which would
divert the flow of Bolivian ores
to European markets.
On Sydney ’Change Kundang’s
f.-p. £1 shares fetch 425. as
against 395. a year ago.
Rio Tinto and Uranium
Rio Tinto, the big London-
controlled investment and pros-
pecting co., which has substantial
uranium interests in Canada,
holds an authority to prospect
for uranium and other minerals
over 200 square miles in the
Northern Territory. It is now
about to test, by drilling and
other means, the Manton Dam
section of this area some 40
miles from Darwin. Here surface
material is said to be low-grade,
but if the aggregate tonnage is
large enough, it could become
a “very payable” proposition.
Rio’s manager for the Territory,
R. Mathieson, says.
Rio has already examined a
number of uranium prospects in
the Territory, but there the
matter has ended to date. It
recently withdrew its offer in
connection with the large-scale
development of the Sleisbeck-
Alligator River area, when two
of the cos. concerned refused to
go ahead because the terms were
too stiff. Later it made a more
generous offer for an interest in
the Mary Kathleen leases
(N.Q.).
At the moment the crux of
the whole position in respect of
uranium is: Can you sell the
stuff? If so to whom? The
Atomic Energy Commission has
definitely stated that it will only
accept ore “amenable to treat-
ment” at the Rum Jungle plant.
And the maximum quantity is
limited to 20,000 tons p.a. from
any one supplier.
Excepting the S. Australian
Government’s plant at Radium
Hill, which doesn’t cater fo
customs ore from other States
there is no other plant in Aus
tralia at which uranium-bearing
sulphides, not acceptable at Rum
Jungle, can be concentrated
Also, if low-grade ore is to be
treated at a satisfactory profit
it needs to be handled on the
hell-for-leather principle, which
means erection of a suitable
treatment-plant on the field
concerned.
The rise in the price of
wolfram—the stuff recently
fetched around £SI3 per unit
in London as against £SIO 11s.
a year ago and £SI7 3s. a
year before that has
brightened the outlook for
Pioneer Mines, N.L. Adelaide-
controlled, the co. owns the best
tungsten mine in the N.T., and
it put up a commendable per-
formance until the sharp fall in
prices squeezed the profit out of
production before the mine and
plant could get into full swing.
The mill recently started up
again with a small order for
run-of-mine concentrates for
May delivery; buyers pre-
viously insisted upon clean pro-
duction. If the price keejjs up
the co.’s chances of getting a
sizable period - contract are
encouraging. The f.-p. ss.
shares, which fell from 7s. in
1953 to a low’ of 9d. in 1954,
recently fetched Is. 4d.


Womew’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The University’s Centenary Fair was
opened by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. F. P.
Selleck, in chill, gusty weather ; a wan
sun appeared later, to make things -look
brighter, though not much warmer. The
University grounds were gay with the
varicolored awnings of the many stalls ;
there were small boys carrying sandwich-
boards, and notices on practically every
tree. Girl students in gowns sold pro-
grammes.
There were stalls galore, from week-
end produce to party-needs (this, con-
ducted by Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer
and her helpers, did a roaring trade), and
from handcrafts to ties and handker-
chiefs.
In Union House a most attractive exhi-
bition, aranged by the All Nations Group,
featured special exhibits which had been
flown-out by parents of students from
many Asian countries. Here also an Old
Colonial exhibition, which included many
historic documents, was opened by Sir
Russell Grimwade.
The Centenary Pageant, organised by
Mrs. James Buchanan, gave evidence of
careful research. This was held in the
Union Theatre, and 80 men and women,
comprising both graduates and students,
portrayed many of the outstanding
figures who have passed through the
’Varsity and depicted events in the life
of their Alma Mater.
☆ ☆ ☆
Denise, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. A. French, of Brighton, has be-
come engaged to Bruce, only son of the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Cr.
and Mrs. F. P. Selleck. Denise is a Sister
at the Royal Melbourne Hospital. The
engagement was celebrated at a party at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. French. The
wedding is planned for early next year.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 1955 Douglas Cox collection shows
frocks made in the new permanently-
pleated cotton. This pleating, which can-
not be washed out (syds. is pleated into
lyd.), is used as a full skirt with similar
unpleated material making the bodice, or
it can be used to form groups of pleats.
In all cases smudgy vista-prints or baya-
deres are used to show the full effect.
The fascinating prints show scenes from
Amsterdam, Vienna and Switzerland,
and one very attractive print was of the
River Seine.
The silhouette is an adaption of both
the .A- and H-lines, and in most of the
frocks the long torso-line predominates.
Belts made from the material are still
a la mode. Colors are Turkish Delight
(a pink), Bahama-blue, Gold Coast
(lemon), Carribean (aqua), Capri (light
green), Tyrol (dark green), Canyon-red,
Jamaican Spice (beige), Californian
Blush (cyclamen), Tasman-blue (navy),
Havana-brown, Sphinx-lime and Prussian-
blue.
Of cool, crisp Arctic-white cotton was
a charming sports-frock. The bodice had
a scoop-neckline, and the full skirt fell
into a front pleat. The H-line was seen
to advantage in a white Arctic pique
striped with pink. It was caught on the
shoulders with a bow of the material, and
the skirt was full.
Nylon, patterned in a muted scenic
design, made a day-frock which featured
a pleated inset on Empire-lines, tucked
bodice, the skirt full and pleated. Iced
with white pique cuffs and collar, a
black-and-white chessboard cotton shirt-
frock was attractive.
Most of the bodices were simply cut.
The scoop-neckline was used for sun-
frocks and was seen in Californian Blush
printed in a river-pageant design.* This
had a dropped waistline, with skirt pleated
in front, and with it went a brief fitted
jacket with a heart-shaped neckline.
Sphinx-lime cotton, woven in a jacquard-
pattern, made an afternoon-frock. Jet
buttons led up to a softly-draped V-neck-
line, and the full skirt had unusual darts
at the waistline.
# V V
Christ Church, South Yarra, was setting
for the marriage of Pamela Maire Ann,
elder daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
G. R. P. Farrell, of Upper Norwood,
London, and Squadron-Leader Kevern
George Brinsley. The bride wore a gown
of white pure-silk organza, with white
lilac-blossom on the bodice; the full,
slightly-trained skirt had the waist de-
fined with a sash, finishing at the back
in a bustle-bow. A coronet of rhinestones
and white lilac held in place the fingertip-
length tulle veil. The bride’s sister Eliza-
beth, Barbara Shellew and Rosalind
Peatey were bridesmaids. Their frocks
of white figured-organdie featured scoop-
necklines and tiny puffed sleeves, with
sky-blue velvet ribbons- at the waist.
Matching velvet ribbons were worn in
their hair. The bridegroom is the only
son of Mrs. E. F. Brinsley, of Ivanhoe,
arid the late Mr. A- Brinsley. Best man
was Squadron-Leader A. J. Bunyan,
A.F.C., and groomsrpen were Squadron-
Leader J. E. Gerber, A.F.C., and Squad-
ron-Leader J. C. Thorpe.
Mrs. James Buchanan, who is organiser
of the pageant which celebrates Mel-
bourne University’s centenary (proceeds
will go to the University Centenary
Appeal ), is great-granddaughter of Dr.
Godfrey Howitt, who was a member of
the original University Council, and she
is a daughter-in-law of Melbourne Uni-
versity’s pioneer woman medical-gradu-
ate, Dr. Freda Gamble. Mrs. Buchanan,
tall, slim and blonde, is the wife of Dr.
James Buchanan, of Toorak, and is
mother of four daughters: Primrose (who
is doing Science at the Uni.), Phoebe-Ann
{nursing at the Alfred Hospital) and Ros-
lyn and Rowena, who are still at St.
Catherine’s. Mrs. Buchanan is a member
of the committee arranging the Victoria
League Empire Dinner-ball. to be held
at the Roy ale Ballroom on May 19, ticket-
secretaries for which are Marjorie Tat nail
(WF 4304), and Adrienne Maxwell
(UY 3315).
Members of the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital met
at the South Yarra home of Mrs, Givon
Parsons (wife of the U.S. Consul), and
over coffee and hot pecan-buns discussed
plans for the Fourth of July Ball, pro-
ceeds of which will go to that hospital.
While Mrs. Gerald Warner (wife of the
U.S. Consul-General) supplied suitable
background-music, Chief Coffee-in-the-
Pot (Mrs. W. W. Killough), dressed in an
authentic Seminole Indian-squaw frock,
and with beaded headband and red
feather in her hair and matching moc-
casins on her feet, mingled with the
guests. The Red Indian atmosphere will
be the theme of the Koshare ball (the
name means merry-makers in Red Indian
language), which will be held at the St.
Kilda Palais de Danse on Friday, July 1.
Mrs. Givon. Parsons is in charge of pub-
licity; Mrs. Tom-Blarney will handle
decorations. Tickets at £2 12s. 6d. each
may be obtained . from Mrs. Charles
McKay, 73 Talbot Crescent, Kooyong
(BY 2266).
* ☆ ☆
At the meeting of the National Council
of Women of Victoria the possibility of
Melbourne’s acquiring an amenities-
centre, which would provide facilities for
mothers with children, evoked lively dis-
cussion. Sydney has one, provided by the
City Council, and it is reported a great
boon. The president, Mrs: R. T. Breen,
was in the chair, and the special address
was delivered by Major-General A C
Shortt.
SYDNEY
Event of the week was the Old Vic
Company’s opening at the Tivoli on
Saturday. Everyone (or nearly everyone)
got themselves up as glamorously as pos-
sible Mrs. M. Helpmann was with
Sheila in red organza in one of the boxes
(it reminded one of “we all went down
our own to hear as holy triumph
crowned them,”. and what a triumph
Robert Helpmann had!).. The Anthony
Horderns were in another box ; Gladys
Moncrieff, all white fox, in another.
Mrs. George Strauss, a director of the
Old Vic, flew out specially for the open-
ing, Mrs. Frank Tait came up from Mel-
bourne, and looked most striking in
bronze faille. The Premier and Mrs.
Cahill, the Lord Mayor and Mrs. Hills,
with leading lights of the Elizabethan
Trust and of the A.8.C., sat in the front
row of the circle.
It was rather a chill night, and there
was plenty of mink, ermine, fox, mus-
quash, etc., to be seen, but no rabbit.
(What has happened to the rabbit? Per-
haps it’s the myxomatosis, or maybe it
has merely turned into coney.) On the
whole it was a bright and creditably-
dressed audience, but it grew more and
more mundane as the fairy-like shimmer
of the settings and the sight of Katharine
Hepburn skimming round the stage in
petal -pink gossamer and a dew-drop-
studded ruff, with Jessica in golden gauze
and Nerissa in drifting clouds of pale-
blue, made reality and the 20th century
somehow seem devoid of magic.
■V V V
Concluding their International Art
Festival, which has been celebrated for a
week by the New Australian Cultural
Association, the Concert Ball was held
at the Town Hall on Friday night. Immi-
gration Minister Holt and Mrs. Holt re-
ceived 10 debutantes, including a repre-
sentative of Australia, Miss Margaret
May.
Mrs. Holt (who flew from Melbourne
for the one night) wore a beautiful dress
of cream chiffon with a strapless, draped
bodice and a skirt composed of plaited
swathes of the material over stiffened
petticoats. Around her shoulders she
draped a silk-brocade scarf in peacock-
blue. Miss Arline Lower, in lemon geor-
gette, was hostess, and Dr. C. Wouters
was M.C.
Mr. and Mrs. R. J. F. Boyer, Mr. and
Mrs. Erik Langker, Mr- and Mrs. Furley
and Dr. and Mrs. Louat were among the
guests. Before the dancing started a
concert was given by New Australians,
and throughout the night Dutch, Hun-
garian, Latvian, Rumanian, Polish, Slo-
vakian folk-dancing (with some Croatian
fencing) was interspersed with the ball-
room-dancing.
The engagement of Alison Mackay,
younger daughter of Sir Iven and Lady
Mackay, of Turramurra, to Duncan
Mitchell, only son of Mr. and Mrs. Athol
Mitchell, of Morville, Tobeah (Q.), has
just been announced. Her ring is a dia-
mond with sapphires, and the engagement
will be celebrated at a party given by her
parents this week. This is the second
engagement in the family; Sir Iven and
Lady Mackay's elder daughter, Mrs. Jean
Travers, who is living in London, has
just become engaged to John Doolette
{also an Australian in London ), and the
marriage will take place in July. Alison
and Duncan plan to marry some time
next year. {Photo by Hugh Spencer).
Many will find the exhibition of em-
broideries by Con Bolton at David Jones’
“small gallery” w T orthy of attention,
though if they go expecting to see hand-
crafts they will be surprised, for these are
all done on a machine. Each is a framed
picture, with subjects including Indian
' legend, saints, glades, moths and the caves
of night. Their artistic content is high
according to the critics (who should
know), and the idea of someone having
manoeuvred a piece of cloth round and
round a sewing-machine-needle to pro-
duce them is rather startling. Con Bolton
is a woman, and is a teacher of art; she
lives in England. The exhibition remains
open till next Saturday.
V- V V '
Child With a Cockatoo, the new book
of poems by Rosemary Dobson published
by Angus and Robertson, contains a
section of the lovely poems about paint-
ings which have become associated with
her name. Miss Dobson is particularly in-
terested in art, was an art-student for some
time and herself designed the cover of
her latest book. Since her previous col-
lection of poems was published she has
married and is in private life Mrs. Alec
Bolton. She has one baby girl, five
months old, called Lissant Mary.
☆ ☆ ☆
From Calen, near Mackay (Q.), comes
a report of the birthday-party of Mr.
Robert Wales, The Bulletin’s oldest
reader, who cut his 100-candle cake at the
public party given him by 700 residents
of the town on Tuesday night. His two
daughters were present, and 91 descend-
ants are alive. He received greetings from
the Queen, the Governor-General, the
Governor of Queensland, and The
Bulletin, for its part, wishes him many
more years to read (as he says) “the jokes
within the red jacket.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. Colin Roderick has written a song
which might be suitable for a national
anthem. Its name is “Our Father’s
Charge—Australia.” Well, our Civic
Fathers do, at any rate.
☆ ☆ ☆
The audience at the opening night of
the Phillip Street Theatre’s new revue,
“Happy Returns,” was particularly well-
dressed and good-looking. Dresses were
mostly ballerina-length (definitely the
most suitable thing for the theatre), and
the tie-silks, nylons and brocades showed
to advantage in the bright little theatre.
After the show everyone, cast and
audience, went on to Prince’s for supper
and champagne (the tickets were two-
guineas each and included all this), so
that one danced around with Margo Lee
(the golden-girl, who, however, had lost
her voice and couldn’t sing in the show
that night), June Salter (who has such a
way of singing a torch-song), Shirley
Sunners (like Audrey Hepburn and
dressed in a turquoise taffeta dress of
1920-type, dipping from, short to long),
Diana Davidson, Lyle O’Hara (off to
England soon) arid Madge Ryan (who
showed a lively sense of vigorous humor
in “Happy Returns”).
The Phillip-street Theatre is one year
old, but it seems as though it has been
with us always, so much has it become
part of the life of Sydney. By the way,
noticed its director, William Orr, in the
very front row of the opening of the Old
Vic Company. Now, what will come out
of that?
☆ ☆ ☆
Many representatives of the Consular
and diplomatic corps were present at the
cocktail-party on Friday in aid of the
International Ball. About 150 guests
gathered at the Rural Bank to be greeted
by Mrs. C. M. Guiney, the ball’s presi-
dent, and by Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Honner,
representing United Nations. The ball
is to be held on August 4, and once more
is to have a pageant, though featuring this
year a different theme front those in the
past.
V V #
Who noticed that Prince Charles was
referred to as the Duke of Cornwall in
the letter issued from Buckingham Palace
about the intended expansion of his
education? Some say that it is incorrect
to refer to the Queen’s son as “Prince”
until he is created Prince of Wales. The
Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh seem
generally to speak of him simply as
Charles. But, incorrect or not, “Prince
Charles” he is likely to remain to prac-
tically everyone in the English-speaking
world.
☆ ☆ ☆
Conversation at Canterbury: “Let’s
back Golden Honey because this is
Honey Week.” “No, don’t let’s. Billy
Cook is on it, and you don’t cook honey
as a rule.” (Post-mortem: Golden,
Honey won at eight-to-one, because you
can cook honey if you want to.)


YOU CAN DECIDE
How Many Children
SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY
The Viennese scientist, Dr. Knaus, and Dr. Ogino, of Niigata,
have discovered a means of determining with certainty the exact
time of fertility and sterility in the individual woman. Therefore
from how on one can dispense with poisonous chemicals and harmful
appliances—with all contraceptives as being unethical, unreliable
and opposed to religious principles.
A NATURAL METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL
and Family Planning, easy to follow and absolutely reliable. This
O.K. system enables people to whom children have been denied for
years,to calculate accurately the woman’s fertile times and thus
know when conception may be fostered. On the other hand, it
encourages young couples to marry early by enabling them to settle
clown properly before assuming the responsibilities of parenthood.
Then when both are fittest, they can fix the date for conception and
the birth of their first child and later, according to circumstances.
THE ELIMINATION OF RISK
In the past, a woman could never be sure; she had to take a big
risk. Now, with the O.K. system she can know with certainty.
CHURCH SANCTIONS NATURAL METHOD
World medical authorities highly recommend it. The “O.K.
MARITAL. ADJUSTMENT COURSE" gives complete guidance for
the happy and successful regulation of the marital relationship
in all its aspects. It contains the “WOMAN’S CYCLE CALCULA-
TOR,” invented by DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc. Their information
is guaranteed reliable and enables you to plan your family with
certainty.
Price of FULL COURSE and CALCULATOR £3
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, Dept. 8.N.2, Box 3584, G.P.0., Sydney
.MAIL NOW—DON’T WAIT—AND BE SORRY
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc.,
Dept. 8.N.2, Box 3584, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
(12 Alan St., North Sydney. Phone XY 6789.)
Please send me, under plain sealed cover:—
Further information re both. I enclose addressed, stamped envelope.
The FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR I enclose £3
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS
8.N.2 18/5/’55
V»ur
SPECIAL ENERGOL
VISCO-STATIC
The only 4-GRADES-IN-l
visco-s
MOTOR
MOTOR OIL
REDUCES
ENGINE WEAR
Completely eliminates engine wear at start up . .
at least doubles time between overhauls .
cuts petrol consumption up to 18% • • •
adds years of life to a good used engihe.
SAVES SO MUCH MORE THAN THE EXTRA IT COSTS!
Metropolitan prices: 19/6 per gallon, 5/6 per quart
(Prices vary slightly in Queensland, Tasmania and country areas)
Marketed throughout Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
an associate of The British Petroleum Company ltd ii/c2SS/IO2S ,
m
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Merchant of Venice”
Having enjoyed Katharine
Hepburn’s film-appearances for
so long, one almost had the
words ready for her Portia
before the Old Vic company
opened with “The Merchant’ at
Sydney Tiv.
And, indeed, when she first
came on the stage, looking quite
beautiful and exquisitely dressed,
it seemed that the anticipation
was about to be fulfilled.
Then, for the best part of two
or three hours, Miss Hepburn
made it very plain that, whoever
Portia was, Miss Hepburn is
Miss Hepburn.
True, Miss Hepburn has a
light and lovely way of skittering
about the stage and a whole
alphabet of quick and natural
touches to decorate her acting,
but there was so much breathless
fluttering about some of her
scenes that one almost expected
her to launch into the Bluebird
dance from “Aurora’s Wedding,”
while the dying fall she gives to
her lines (a device which seemed
so effective in short exchanges in
filmed comedies) becomes, as it
runs on, a kind of monotonous
undulation of which the
appetite soon surfeits.
And while one might accept,
with a slight shudder, that “The
quahlity of mercy drahpeth
as the gentle rain ” the
pauses and inflexions that Miss
Hepburn gave- the rest of that
speech hardly evoked any mercy
for what she did with it; nor for
the way in which she dragged
the bow slow and hard across the
G-string in her more dramatic
or emotional moments.
For a few lines —“If you had
known the virtue of the ring,”
etc. —Miss Hepburn suddenly
seemed to forget she was playing
Shakspeare, and her quick
shrewish scolding was a
delightful promise of what she
might do with “The Taming of
the Shrew.”
By way of compensation,
Robert Helpmann’s Shylock,
black and heavy with gold, was
wonderfully mannered and
dressed and, as might have been
expected, as exactly articulate
in movement and gesture as in
words. He took the middle
course, trying to wring neither
compassion nor hate from the
audience, and if that deprived
him of one or two of the
customary grand moments it also
left him with a much tidier
version of the Jew.
Shylock is, after all, neither
the heart of a tragedy nor the
ghoul of a horror-play ; he’s a
rattling good villain in a melo-
drama, and that was pretty well
what Helpmann made him.
A stylish villain, though, with
his swift black sweep across the
stage, his cries of anguish and
his quick pounce of hate.
Someone remarked in the foyer
after the show that Helpmann
had “missed the essential
tragedy of the man.” But
where is the “tragedy” in* this
shrewd, double-dealing, blood-
thirsty moneylender who loses
his daughter because his “house
is hell”? Even the eloquent
plea that some players choose to
give him- (or themselves) seems
more to be spat out after “To
bait fish withal” and has more
of hate and pain than humanity
in it.
Even his hate and pride lack
the saving grace of any deep
strength—despite his protesta-
tions about swearing on the holy
Sabbath to have' his bond, about
his “oath in heaven” and laying
“perjury upon my soul,” it all
fizzles very quickly when his
ducats are threatened. If there
were more than shallow vicious-
ness, if there were real hate and
pride, surely he would take his
bond and the consequences with
it.
Still, Mr. Helpmann’s per-
formance didn’t really raise
those arguments. He was a.
magnificent villain, and left it
at that.
For the rest, an efficient sup-
porting cast neither faltered nor
distinguished itself; the pic-
turesque affectations of Loudon
Sainthill’s setting and costumes
matched the mood of the pro-
duction, and Michael Benthall s
swift and graceful producing
seemed only astray where it did
Morocco out of his dignity and
made a foppish idiot of Arragon.
♦> ❖ ♦>
Barbirolli
On this his second visit Sir
John, of the Halle promised to
introduce seven new works. One
of these he presented at the open-
ing concert of his Sydney
season: the Symphony No. 3
by the contemporary English
composer Stanley Bate. It
seemed to constitute more a
threat than a promise.
The work, which lacks a
scherzo, contains no more than
about five minutes of listenable
music, all this only either when
the string-choirs were singing
softly or the woodwinds were
allotted harmonic work on their
own. For the rest, the develop-
ment sections were too diffuse
and the subject-matter was of
poor’invention.
There was another
porary piece, “Colos Breugnon”
Overture by the Russian
Kabelevsky. But this was strong,
rhythmic and coruscating, in
style almost indistinguishable
from that of the brilliant Rossini,
The orchestra obviously took it
to its collective heart and played
it with enormous vitality.
The big work of the night was
Brahms’s First Symphony, and
whether he was delineating tragic
power, serene resignation, or, as
in the final phase, hammering out
a pzean of restored hope, the
nine-stone dynamo on the
podium drew from his forces
music of remarkably high
standard.
Sylvia Fisher sang Wagner’s
“Wesendonck Lieder.” These
four songs reflect little of the
passion which the composer
entertained for Mathilde Wesen-
donck ; perhaps his inspiration
went a bit cold at the thought
that her husband —there was
always a husband with Wagner
—might get wind of it.
♦> ❖ *
“The Sleeping Prince”
The Terence Rattigan who
wrote “Separate Tables” isn’t the
Terence Rattigan who wrote
“The Sleeping Prince,” nor is
the Ralph Richardson who acts
the part of a Carpathian regent
in the second opus the craftsman
he was in the first play at Mel-
bourne Princess—he is more of
a skilled tradesman.
As it is a part that nobody
could feel, one can’t blame the
actor —Mr. Rattigan’s puppets
are mildly amusing, but charac-
terless. There is His Majesty
King Nicholas VIII of Car-
pathia, His Royal Highness the
Grand Duke Charles, who is
the king’s father and also Prince
Regent, Her Imperial and Royal
Highness the Grand Duchess
Charles, Her Royal Highness
the Archduchess Ferdinand of
Styria, and numerous other
royal highnesses, baronesses and
what-not.
• They all meet in the Royal
Suite of the Carpathian Legation
in London, where an of
the Foreign Office is instrumental
in introducing Mary, a song-and-
dance artiste, to the Prince
Regent, view to an evening’s
pleasure, which, unfortunately,
develops on the lady’s part into
a deep attachment most em-
barrassing to His Royal
.Highness.
The thin story is spread over
three acts and gives Dame Sybil
the opportunity of some engag-
ing acting as Her Imperial and
Royal Highness, who hasn’t the
least objection to letting Mary
share what she herself hasn’t got
—the affection of her husband.
Meriel Forbes gives the
American actress a dead-pan
voice and a vivacious manner,
and Frederick Gibson is suitably
gawky as the adolescent
monarch.
Artbursts
With a Sewing-machine
Apparently using a sewing-
machine, Miss Con Bolton,
whose curious wares are at David
Jones’ “little gallery;” Sydney,
does embroideries of Indian
goddesses, Japanese women,
puss-moth caterpillars, seaweed
. and “Heavenly Jerusalem” which
are framed and hung as pictures.
She is an Irish-born artist, now
teaching at the Bromley and"
Hammersmith colleges of art,
London.
Whether it is art or fancywork
this commentator hesitates to
' say. Her colors are often
rococo; her drawing (with the
sewing-machine) lame. Never-
theless “Silver Figure,” with the
silvery lady sitting under a golden
'sun against the woodland, the
black landscape of “Night” and
the decorative “Woman and
Vase” with a nude outlined in
red stitches against a rich green
background are certainly attrac-
tive and presumably one
knoweth not these mysteries —
extroardinarily clever things to
have done with a sewing-
machine.
Talkies
“Carmen Jones” (Sydney
Mayfair): The basic plot and
the score of Bizet’s opera
“Carmen” have been grafted on
to a modern American setting,
all-negro characters, and bright
lyrics by Oscar Hammerstein 11.
It is finely directed by Otto
Preminger, and the result is a
film of unusual beauty and
power.
The title-role is taken by
Dorothy Dandridge, who has a
personality that almost leaps at
you, a shining intelligence, and
the ability to project passion of a
voltage that makes the usual
opera-stage Carmen seem as
fiery as an elderly kindergarten-
schoolteacher. As her rejected
lover, Harry Belafonte acts with
burning intensity. The singing
throughout is excellent
* ❖
“Henriette”: French, with a
play-within-a-play technique to
gently satirise the type of film —
and prose —one sees most often.
It is not an unqualified success,
but, from that viewpoint alone,
it is entertaining. And from the
bickerings of the two script-
writers, oddly engaged (shaving ;
in bed; in a bath), aided by
comments and suggestions by
secretary and wives or mistresses,
the story of a midinette’s July 14
holiday and birthday comes out
surprisingly clear and true.
One script-writer is for glamor,
mystery, mayhem ; the other has
the extraordinary notion of a
simple love-story, about two
ordinary people, compressed,
into 24 hours—conflict, yes, and
action, but nothing approaching
the mountains of corpses and
creaking machinery suggested by
his colleague, with the audience
getting full benefit of each, sug-
gestion in shots reminiscent of
“The Third Man” with a dash of
Spike Jones.


The Archway
by Daucd
Campbell
WHEN their mother spoke
about men, the children
had visions of grave,
bearded, courteous
giants who sat at the tops of
tables like their grandfather and
stood up when ladies came into
the room, and gave considered
opinions over whiskies at their
clubs. But sometimes these
giants relaxed, and then they
tossed for sovereigns on the top
step of Petty’s Hotel and galloped
tandem-pairs over five-bar
gates ; and if money was needed
for a good cause, they auctioned
their hats for one-hundred-and-
fifty guineas in the foyer of the
Hotel Australia.
“Well, that is what men have
told me,” she would say, open-
ing her brown eyes; and that
was the end of the argument.
Mr. Marshall, the overseer,
was a man.
Mr. Marshall had curly brown
hair that the children liked to
pull when he sat in the sun
under the elm-tree on Sunday.
The muscle of his right arm was
so strong that it would burst
his coat if he put it up to show
them; and he came from the
north-west plains where their
grandfather lived.
“Tell us how you tripped the
emu,” Janet said, sidling on to
his lap.
“Yes,” said Billy, flopping
down on top of her.
“I want to sit on his knee,
too,” Babs wailed.
“Now then, children,” Mrs.
Graham said. “Leave Mr.
Marshall alone.”
And her eyes met Marshall’s
in a smile of sympathy, for Mrs.
Graham loved her children and
Marshall was a little in love
with her.
“Mr. Marshall,” Miss Frost
said, “I wonder if you would
help me get this nail out of my
shoe?”
Their governess always
seemed to be having trouble
with her clothing when the
children played with the
overseer.
II
TT was nearing the* end of
winter, and each evening
before their bath the children
ran up the frost-hardened road
to the stables to meet Mr.
Marshall coming home from the
lambing-paddocks. Usually on
the way they met their father
striding in thought between the
darkening elms.
“Well,” he said. “Well!
What have you three been up
to today?”
“Oh, just mucking about,”
Janet said, dragging her foot
behind her on the gravel.
And their father laughed or
made some joke; and some-
times he lifted one finger and
caught it in the palm of
hand and said, “Come on now,
you must have done something.
Tell me one thing, one thing”-
catching and releasing the finger
while -the children stood dumb,
running back through their
minds and finding the day a
blank behind them.
“Did you go riding?”
“Oh yes!” Billy said, stepping
forward with relief. “Yes, we
went riding to Spring Creek.
And—and we saw a fox.”
“Well, there you are then” —
rumpling Babs’s hair with his
hand. “That’s better than
‘mucking about,’ isn’t it?”
And while the children raced
each other up the hard red
road, he continued down the
road. The veranda-boards rang,
the gauze-door banged ; and at
the sideboard Colonel Graham
unlocked the decanter and took
out one of the thin, silver-
necked bottles. Glass at arm’s
length, he-poured out one inch
—the daily measure —added
soda, and with feet apart, he
drained his whisky at a draught.
“They saw a fox,” he said,
wiping his greying moustache.
And for some reason he hesi-
tated a moment before relock-
ing the decanter and striding off
to his dressing-room to change.
HI
AT dinner their father sat at
the head of the table and
their mother at the other end
said grace. Miss Frost bowed
her head and kept her eyes side-
ways on the children; Janet
looked under her brows at Billy ;
Mr. Blake, the jackeroo, looked
embarrassed; Mr. Marshall
smiled down at his brown hands.
Then they all lifted their heads
and whisked away their table-
napkins out of their rings and
their father ground knife on
steel.
“Ah!” he said. “I see we’ve
got bird again. No trouble in
the fowlyard, I hope?”
He looked serenely over his
reading-glasses down the long
table at'his wife.
Miss Frost gave a little shriek
of delight and horror, and Billy
said, “Foxes!”
This was his table-trick —the
short, well-timed, humorous
aside of no more than six words,
or there he was in the silence.
It never failed to please his
father, who glanced at him. with
momentary interest while he
laughed.
“Well, well,” he said, looking
up through his glasses. “I
thought there must be something
more to that fox you saw. Very
good.”
But their mother had flushed
a little and was explaining:
some of the fowls were moult-
ing ; she was weeding-out the
ones that didn’t lay. Colonel
Graham only laughed the more ;
and rising, he pinioned a ruddy
chicken with the twin prongs of
the fork.
“There’s only one way to
carve a bird,” he said. “The
secret is, never move the fork!”
Dexterously he dismembered
the fowls and laid back the
creamy shavers of breast. It
was like the dismantling of a
machine or the perfect analysis
of a problem. While he carved,
no one spoke. The yellow-box
log cracked in the* open hearth,
a possum whispered from the
roof, Elsie carried around the
plates, her chin wobbling at
each step.
“Drumstick for you, Billy?”
It was a Sunday joke, and
Billy laughed, although he
always got the drumstick.
“Please don’t wait,” their
mother said, smiling and sitting
forward. “It will only get
cold.”
TANET put a hot potato in
J her mouth, turned very red
and cough-coughed, turning her
head to® one side, swallowing it.
Mr. Marshall slapped her back,
feeling the delicate thin bone
beneath his hand.
“You should have put it out,
dear,” their mother said.
“Too late now; I’ve
swallowed it. I can still feel
it though—just about here.”
She smiled round the table
through tears, her face still
burning, and reached for the
water.
“Like a little coal!”
And Billy laughed.
“Always put it out,” their
mother’s smile was troubled.
“It could be very bad for you.”
“Never be afraid to spit it
out,” their father said. “You’ve
got a very good precedent in
Dr. Johnson. He was dining, I
think, at Mrs. Thrale’s. Only
time he was ever caught-out, to
my knowledge.”
Colonel Graham had taken off
his glasses and was glancing
down both sides of the table,
rounding-up attention. Billy
rolled his bread-pills under his
plate; Mr. Blake paused with
his fork halfway; Miss Frost
blinked into a bright smile, and
put Jier grey head on one side
for listening.
“Yes —rat Mrs. Thrale’s. He
was dining in very good com-
pany when the same as
happened to you, Janet,
happened to him. He put a
hot potato in his mouth." But
unlike Janet here, the great maft
spat it back, and glancing round
the table” —Colonel Graham
lifted his own spiked brows and
gazed imperiously down his
nose—“glancing round the table,
he said, ‘A fool, sir, would have
swallowed that I s ”.
Miss Frost began to titter.
“Hold on! Hold on! ‘A
fool,’ said Johnson, ‘would have
swallowed that!’ But someone
on his left —I forget who ; one
of the lesser guests—caught him
out beautifully. ‘Ah, but then,
Doctor,’ he said, ‘a wise man
wouldn’t have put it in in the
first place!’ Completely
stumped him! You can
imagine , . .” Graham’s wind-
veined face had crimsoned with
delight and he sat forward ; but
Janet had flushed too.
“IVn not,” she said.
Her long lashes were down
and her pouting lips trembled.
- Their father was taken aback.
The laughter in his eyes greyed
to steel and he lifted his head.
“Not what?”
“I’m not a fool,” Janet
shouted, and burst into tears.
There was a moment’s silence.
Then Mr. Marshall’s handker-
chief was out and Janet was
blowing into it, and their mother
had reached out and was
smoothing her Ijand.
“Your father was talking
about Dr. Johnson, darling;
not about you at all.”
“Leave me alone,” Janet
whispered, catching jagged
breaths. “I’ll be all right, in a
minute.”
“Really, Josephine,” their
father said, “Janet will have to
have early tea with Babs if she
can’t behave better than this.
To take up a thing like that —
a story about Johnson. Only
by the widest stretch . . .”
“I’ll speak to her afterwards,”
Miss Frost said through straight
lips. Janet lifted raw eyes.
6 4 T'vINNER is a time for good
talk,” their father was
proceeding. “Goodness knows
it’s hard enough to lift the con-
versation above sheep and flies.
I keep my end up. Sometimes
I think I talk too much; anc
quite purposely, I say nothing
What happens? There is
silence.”
He paused. Down by th
creek a curlew cried.
“When I was young m
father sat at the head of th
table —brurrh! ”
Colonel Graham put a fist a
each side of his plate, hollowec
his back, thrust out his lips anc
glared through twinkling eyes
“There we were, five girl
and four boys, and your grand
mother in a lace collar at th
far end. That was before the
big drought, of course.”
And suddenly his eye
softened, seeing it all as he
knew it as a child, but with new
knowledge—before the dry year
that broke his father. The
curlew haunted the darkness.
“A fine man!” he said. “A
fine man! Yes, as I was saying:
There he was, head of his own
table. And it was: ‘And wha
do you think, Richard?’ ‘And
what is your opinion of that
Joan?’ Oh, very different
indeed from these days! You
spoke when you were spoken
to. ‘Little boys,’ he would say,
‘should be seen and not heard.’ ”
“Like the Queen and the
salad,” said Billy.
Colonel Graham checked;
he laughed ; he threw back his
head. Tears of laughter came
into his eyes.
“Oh, very good. I told you
that, did I? About the Queen
and the salad? Very skilfully
timed. Real wit.”
And he took out his glasses
and looked oyer them at Billy,
smiling and curious, puzzled by
this shy boy of his, these
momentary glimpses of a mind.
“I told you that, did I?,”
And he went on to retell the
story of Queen Victoria eating
the slug after silencing the
prince.
“Yes,” he said. “Perhaps things
are better nowadays. Let the
young have their head! You
picked me up very well.”
Billy having said seven words
for the meal, smiled modestly
at his plate while glory burned
his ears. Janet kicked him
under the table. It was only
then they became aware that
their mother was talking to Mr.
Marshall.
She was leaning sideways
towards him, nodding and smil-
ing as if at a dinner-party, and
when she listened, her fair face
lit up expectantly or a dreaming,
brooding mood narrowed her
wide eyes.
“Yes,” she said. “After the
ball they all came home in four-
in-hands. There were I can’t
tell you how many in the house!
We had to set-up card-tables in
the dining-room-. You remem-
ber Jim Allenson?”
“Yes,” Marshall said, sud-
denly conscious of the heat of
the fire. “We’re talking of the
Goolah picnics, Colonel.”
“Yes, yes,” their father said.
“We’re out of the way here. A
dull district. Golf with Grant
on Sundays.” He sighed, long-
sighted eyes lost with the
curlews by the creek. „ “It was
different in the mess during the
war . . . men from all walks of
life „ . . Well,” his hands were
on the arms of his chair. “Are
we ready, my dear?”
Mrs. Graham rose. There
was a grinding of chairs.
IV
AFTER dinner the children
always changed into
pyjamas before going into the
sitting-room to say good-night.
In slippers and belted dressing-
gowns, they slithered to the
MR, SEXTON BLAKE
The hero of three-thousand episodes,
jut-jawed and leather-haired, leans out
his carriage-window, scrutinises mobs;
perennially immaculate, alert.
His hundred Boswells follow every move
from Hampstead to the Hebrides and back
via Bali. There’s no time for love,
children, security, while at the beck
of monsters and mad doctors, demons, come
bursting upon our quiet suburban wall
forces primeval to destroy the dream
and bring to dust the white and beautiful.
That’s where he enters: there’s where he set out —;
hailing a cab in eighteen-ninety-three—
on a strange highway heading straight for doubt.
Resource, determination, set him free
and made a folly of the plotters’ toils.
Restless and batlike then, he craved for blood—
for evil victims of his lawful coils
acute to scent the crime—to whom it led.
Year after year, wearing a blazing cause
through wars and famines, floods and sorceries,
before and after us, timeless, he goes—
the future solved—least of the mysteries.
Deathless knight-errant who assures our sleep
though empires fall, 01* stars; though space and Time
burn in the offing, will his vigil keep
to name one hellion father of the crime.
N.Z.
LOUIS JOHNSON.


ms
■ 'V
'fi&W ms
■
gg m
m
COOWAC
•IM (
COURVOISIER
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
NEW SOUTH .WALES
FESQ & COMPANY Pty.
Ltd. 193 Gloucester Street,
SYDNEY
QUEEN SI/AND
THOMAS BROWN & Sons
Ltd., Eagle Street,
BRISBANE
VICTORIA *
TAYLOR FERGUSON &
Co., 127-129 King Street,
MELBOURNE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WALTER REYNELL
& , Sons,
BE^NELLA
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
DALGETY & Co. Ltd.,
P.O. Box 94,
PERTH
TASMANIA
BURGESS BROTHERS
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box «6D,
HOBART
door; there were scuffles and
broken whispers ; demurely they
tiled through the tall room with
its chintz coverings and burning
hearth.
Their father sat in his own
leather chair, a coffee-cup on
his knee, an open book on his
lap, talking politics or pastures
with Mr. Marshall. Miss Frost
stitched, her eyes on the
children ; their mother dreamed
over her embroidery ; Mr. Blake
yawned at the fire.
“Good-night, Dad.”
Janet kissed his forehead.
Billy shook his hand. '
“That’s the boy.”
A Wink and a nod.
Then they hugged their
mother.
“Don’t forget to say your
prayers, darlings.”
And passing Mr. Marshall’s
chair, Janet flicked his knee with
the tips of her long fingers, blue
eyes to the side, merry and
proud ; and said, as light as you
like, “Good-night!”
“Janet!” Miss Frost had
stopped stitching. “Ladies do
not act like that in front of
gentlemen.”
“Her!” Japet said, climbing
in between frosty sheets in their
sleepout. “What does she
know about it, anyway? She
isn’t even married!”
“I wonder . . .” Billy said.
He was hollowing a warm hole
in the pillow for his head. “I
wonder what they do now,
Jan?”
“I know what Mr. Blake
does! ”
The children giggled, feeling
their beds warming and closing
around them.
TN the sitting-room the golden
log broke; the scattered
coals darkened.
“Well, to the office!” Colonel
Graham rose.
His steps rang on the
veranda ; his voice echoed from
the telephone. “That you,
Dick?” Through the thick
plaster-wall they heard the
snapping of a typewriter, the
minute tinkle of its bell. Mr.
Blake yawned again at the fire
and looked at his watch, notic-
ing the fine hairs on his wrist.
“Time to turn-in,” he said.
“Early to bed and early to rise.”
He looked down at Mr.
Marshall with subtle composure.
“Good-night! ”
But as the light closed behind
him his heart was beating.
Would she be there? He was
meeting Elsie, the housemaid,
behind the woodheap at nine.
On silent soles he felt his way
down the dark passageway and
let the side wire-door close
behind him on his hand. Ten-
thousand stars shot their arrows
through the night.
Marshall rose restlessly,
stretched, and smiled quietly
down at lifted toes; his back
to the fire.
“What are you making?” he
said.
“Oh, this is only the children’s
mending,” Miss Frost shrugged.
“It’s a little d’oyley,” Mrs.
Graham said, “to stand the
flowers on on the piano.”
She held it up, smiling. For
no reason, this was the happiest
time of her day. Her work was
over ; the children were in bed.
She could knit and muse and
talk to these two friends. It
was a fortune that they got on
so well together.
“Now the. flowers you’ve got
there now,” Marshall was say-
ing, nodding towards the piano.
“Wouldn’t they be Narcissus
polyanthusV'
He had put his hands in his
pockets and closed them, parad-
ing his knowledge. Really,
sometimes he reminded Mrs.
Graham of her son.
“Nearly,” she said. “They’re
Narcissus poeticus. The first
of the year. It’s spring!”
And laying her embroidery
on her lap, she smiled across at
the other woman.
“Would you believe it,
Frosty? I took him round
the garden last Sunday and he
knew the Latin names of oh —
well, quite a number of any-
way—of the plants and shrubs.
Though sometimes,” and she
laughed, “he mistook them for
very rare species. I didn’t know
before you were so fond of
gardening.”
M*ss Frost bit off a thread.
“Humph!” she said, knotting.
“So that’s what that book was
about that came through the
post a week or two back?”
Mrs. Graham paused. She
laughed.
“Oh, you’re too caustic,
Frosty.”
And she took up her em-
broidery again.
YES, Frosty was caustic. Mrs.
Graham expected it was
because she had not married.
Marriage mellowed a woman,
she thought, doubtfully. At
least that was what people said.
Perhaps it was not too late yet.
She glanced up a moment,
meditating. Miss Frost was
grey—at least ten years older
than herself; but her figure was
still very good. There was no
chance for her here. Perhaps
she might ask someone down?
A row of tiring bachelors swept
off their hats in her mind, and
bowed. So many thinning
crowns!
But Mrs. Graham could not
keep her thoughts on them ; she
could not stop the little smile
at her lips.
Perhaps Mr. Marshall had
cheated ; but didn’t that make
it all the more charming? He
had done it for her.
Mrs. Graham began to hum a
little, to croon over the colored
threads in her Jap.
There was no harm in it.
And it was a delight to share
with someone her passion for
flowers. Dreamily she re-
entered the Sunday garden while
cocks crowed and the little beaks
of the daffodils showed their
first yellow. Very soon the
whole orchard would be in
bloom.
“A penny for your thoughts,”
Marshall said.
Mrs. Graham was quite
confused.
“I’m worried about the
Colonel,” Miss Frost said. “It’s
so bleak and cold in that office
next door —and lonely.”
“Yes, I often tell him. He
should do his work in the day-
time. But it is 'his way; and
that’s that.”
“In the daytime,” Miss Frost
said, “he is out in the paddocks.
The office-work must be done
sometime —I expect.” ’
“It is extraordinary,” Marshall
said, “his planning. You’d
hardly think you could judge to
ten minutes just how much
work twelve men can do in a
day. Yet there it is every
morning, typed out: the day’s
work ; an exact day.”
“There you are then,” Miss
Frost said, settling back and
stitching.
“I don’t see what more I can
do,” Mrs. Graham was nettled,
forced somehow to defend her-
self, a little hurt by the - tone.
“There’s a fire; and I do my
best to make the room comfort-
able. But as you know, the
Colonel likes his things left
alone.” •
“It’s the loneliness I’m think-
ing of.” „ .
“Frosty, now you’re being
absurd.”
“Perhaps I am.”
And she went on stitching at
Billy’s trousers, quick angular
stitches, a button between the
tight lines of her lips.
“What do you suggest? Shall
we all go and sit in there? He
would be pleased!”
“I’m sorry I brought the
subject up.”
Miss Frost fumbled in the
valley of her high chest and
brought out the handkerchief
Mrs. Graham had given her for
Christmas. She blew her nose,
sniffing.
“I was only thinking of the
Colonel, I’m sure. And then
one is misunderstood.”
Really, for all her brusque-
ness, Miss Frost was a wet fish
inside.
“I’d do anything in the world
for the Colonel,” Mrs. Graham
said. “Seriously, Frosty, what
do you suggest?”
“1 don’t know, I’m sure. A
door could be put through from
this room, or, alternatively, an
arch.”
Her nose was now red, and
she blink-blinked at the blurred
wall. To placate her became
suddenly more urgent than the
Colonel’s loneliness. Mrs. Gra-
ham gathered up her embroid-
ery and stood facing the wall.
“An arch,” she thought out
aloud. “Bring one room into
the other. It would not be un-
attractive. But then—and she
dropped her hand from her ‘lip
—“of course my husband
wouldn’t hear of it.”
Then the governess said a
curious thing.
“You don’t know what you
can do till you try,” she said.
“Oh dear! My. handkerchief
is all moist. I shouldn’t be such
an old watercart.”
V
6 6 WHAT is an archway,
Mummy?”
“Sssssssss!” hissed Janet and
Billy.
“An archway?” their mother
said, pouring morning-tea.
“Why, that’s an archway there,
Babs —with, the grapes over it.
What a funny thing to ask!
Billy, take this cup to your
father.”
“Serves you right,” Billy
hissed, passing.
Babs could never keep a
secret.
“I don’t see,” Babs said,
“what would they want one for
in the sitting-room?”
“Thanks, old chap.”
“Ssssssss! ”
“I won’t sssssssss,” Babs said.
“See! I can talk if I want to.
It sounds silly.”
“Babs, what are you talking
about?”
“They won’t let me say a
thing,” Babs . wailed. “Miss
Frost told us. They’re putting
up a silly old archway in the
sitting-room.”
Billy and Janet looked at one
another. Miss Frost sipped tea
with crooked fingers. Their
father rustled his paper, cross-
legged in the sun, hat tilted.
“They’re always teasing me!”
“Billy! ” Their father laid
down his paper. “Are you
teasing Babs again?”
“I only said about the silly
old arch.” Babs was sure of
support from her father. “And
they look at me like ... like . ..”
She stood there in bloomers
and sweater, minute and ruddy ;
and threw back her head and
howled.
“There, there, there.”
“Let’s get to the bottom of
this,” their father said. “There’s
too much teasing in this family.”
“They’re mad. Who wants
an arch in the sitting-room?”
“What is all this, Josephine?”
“It seems,” their mother said,
drying Babs’s eyes —“Blow!
Now the other side! —it seems
that Babs has heard about a
door, or an arch, rather, that I
was discussing with Miss Frost,
between the sitting-room and
your office.”
She looked over at the
governess, who was helping her--
self to a linger of toast.
“An arch! Into my office?
Never heard of such a thing!”
“I was going to mention it to
you —at an opportune time. I
thought you wouldn’t like it.”
“An arch! I should damn’
well think not! Has everyone
here taken leave of her senses?”
“There is no need to shout,
Andrew—there you are, Babs,
you’re tidied up again—we’ll
drop the subject.”
“Shout! ”
Colonel Graham stopped
shouting. He put on his glasses
and looked over them at his
wife. His voice became smooth,
bantering. Women were child-
ren, after all.
“And who is shouting? Ah!
A door —or an archway, rather
—into my office. Very good.
Why not two archways? Or a
row of columns? And who was
the—ah —architect of this
plan?”
“I think it would be nice,”
Mrs. Graham said simply. She
glanced again at Miss Frost;
then meeting her husband’s eyes,
she drew an archway in the air
with her hands. “It would bring
one room into the other!”
“Bring the sitting-room into
my' office? Or perhaps you
mean, my office into the sitting-
room ! And where do you
suppose the work of the
property is to be done?”
\ “I was only thinking of you,
Andrew.” Mrs. Graham’s voice
was level, but the color had died
in her cheeks and the tea spilled
as she put down her cup. “It
is too cold and lonely in that
room every night.”
“Lonely! Lonely! Now let
us understand this, Josephine,*
once for all . . .”
Miss Frost rose silently.
Silently she herded the children
before her down the veranda.
As the door closed they heard
“ work to do without pulling
the house down”; and their
mother’s stubborn “I am very
keen on the idea.”
“There you are, Babs,” Billy
said. “Now see what you’ve
done!”
“Don’t speak to her,” Janet
said.
“Children! You must learn
to be more charitable. She is
only a little girl.” .
Their mother did not come in
for lunch. She was working in
the garden.
VI
6WT WILL not . . .” Mrs.
Graham drove the fork
into the rich brown tacky'loam.
'T will nor —laying over a sod
—“have him speak to me like
that!” The sod burst under the
silver prongs. Worms, colored
like veins, moved blindly in the
sunlight. The magpie stepped
closer, beat one against a stake.
“He has never done it before —
in front of the children.”
She paused and pushed back
brown hair from her damp fore-
head. The mild wind chilled
her face.
“Oh!”
The governess was coming
down the path with a mug of
soup and biscuits on a tray.
“Thank you,” Mrs. Graham
said. “I’m not hungry. I
just forget time when I’m
gardening.”
Miss Frost was hurt. She
stood looking at the magpie.
“It was not my place to say
anything. Babs will chatter.”
Mrs. Graham took the soup.
“I made them promise,” Miss
Frost said. “Oh, I’m just a silly
old fool!”'
(Continued on next page)


a GIAnT of a chain saw
..in a ONE-MAN package
When you receive your Mobilco in its fitted timber
case with fuel tin, oil measure, high quality tool kit
and guarantee card, it's a good enough sight and if
spells quality all the way through . . . But it is not
until you take this mighty little monster and press
the chain deep into a hardwood log that you realise
what a good machine you have got. There is light
weight here and full genuine five horsepower
performance . . . enough to keep a man going day
after day, year after year, turning timber into
profit at a.minimum of toil and sweat.
Write for all the details now. They
will be posted to you right away.
Mobilco
ONE-MAN
CHAIN SAW
m
Vs
i
■V
vm.
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mobilco
chain saw.
Name
Address
You can get your Mobilco on terms.
A reasonable deposit and monthly
payments well within your reach will
start earning money and saving effort
for you right away. There's the
coupon at the left. Fill it in and post
it for full details pn the Mobilco.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONES: YX 1244-5 - - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
TASMANIA CAMERON & SUTHERLAND LTD., HOBART AND LAUNCESTON
She took out the Christmas
handkerchief. Mrs. Graham
took a biscuit.
“I don’t know why I’m alive! ”
Mrs. Graham drank the soup.
It was hot, delicious. It com-
forted. She bit the biscuit.
“Oh, Frosty,” she said. “I
don’t know what I’d do without
you ”
“I can’t understand the
Colonel,” Frosty snivelled. “It
was so unlike him. As if you
weren’t mistress in your own
home!”
She raised her eyes. Mrs.
Graham replaced the empty cup
“Thank you,” she said. “That
will do.”
She was not going to discuss
her private affairs with the
governess!
But the peace of the garden
was gone. She toiled on until
late afternoon, turning and
breaking the sods, her strong
brown arms smeared with soil
and sweat, her bro,wn hair falling
now and then • over her eyes.
Early mists crept up from the
creek, chilling her. The cock-
crows sharpened. She would
have to go in.
But her gaze lingered like the
light in the garden as she turned
towards the house of which she
was no lpnger mistress.
VII
T TSUALLY their mother’s
smile was like amber: you
imagined you could see the
centre of it right down inside her.
But the next morning it was just
a tightening of her curved lips;
and her brown eyes were restless.
The children began to fight with
one another.
“Billy!” Janet said. “I won’t
play with you if you cheat.”
“I’m not cheating. You don’t
like being beaten, that’s all.”
They were playing table-
croquet on the front veranda.
A thin wind bared the white
sticks of the gumtrees.
“You did”
“I didn’t.”
Janet laid down her mallet.
“I won’t play with you,” she
said. “I won’t play with you
ever again.”
“I don’t care.”
“I won’t play with you at
anything. I’ll never play with
you. Babs will be my friend.”
“I won’t play with you either.”
Janet put her arm around
Babs’s head.
“We’re girls, aren’t we, Babs?
We won’t play with him, will
we? Then you’ll see.”
“Who’d be a girl, anyway?”
“There’s only one of you,’
Janet said. “Just think: all your
life and never ever anyone to
play with.”
“When I grow up,” Billy said
uncertainly, “I’ll go droving;
and, and—drive four-in-hands
over gates.”
“They don’t have them now;
they have cars —see ! You would
look silly—and all on your own.”
Janet pirouetted in the sun.
“Come on, Babs,” she said.
“Let’s go and play dolls. We’ll
leave him.”
“Oho!” Babs said, taking her
hand. “Can I hold Yvonne?
We don’t like boys.”
Left alone, Billy played the
colored balls around the table.
There was nothing—absolutely
nothing—to do. He dragged the
sleeve of his jersey along his
nose. A lonely desert track
stretched out before him, the
skyline broken by vast croquet-
hoops. His mother kept coming
out of the sewing-room and look-
ing up the front path towards
the stables.
“Billy, has your father gone
out to the paddocks yet? Go
and see.”
“In a minute.”
Janet and Babs were coming
along the side-veranda past the
potplants with a pram and an
armful of dolls. They settled in
the sun by a veranda-post,
propping up the dolls and laying
out tin tea-things. Billy became
absorbed in his game.
“Whissss!” he whistled to
himself. “Through two hoops
at the one time! ”
“Which do you like the best,
Babs?” Janet was holding up
two party frocks. “The pink or
the blue?” Her fair hair hung
down to one side as she con-
sidered. “Pink, don’t you think?
They’re all girls!”
‘ r We’re not listening to him,”
Babs &aid.
“Billy!” Their mother stood
in the doorway of the sewing-
room. “How many times have
I got to tell you? Does no one
listen to me any more?”
“It’s always me! ” Billy’s lips
went down, he turned his jaw,
round tears squeezed out between
the lashes. “They’re all against
me.”
And with his face in the crook
of his arm, he ducked over the
lawn, between the mandarins, to
skulk and mope under the may-
bush. Janet watched him,
smiling.
“I don’t know what’s got into
you children this morning,” their
mother said. “Just >vhen I’m
worried and upset myself! ”
She walked with quick agitated
steps up the path towards the
blacksmith’s shop and the stables.
Babs’s eyes closed, her button-
lip went forward.
“Shush,” Janet said. “There.
Don’t cry. Look! I’ll give you
Yvonne —all to yourself.”
VIII
TS7HEN Billy came back, kick-
ing pebbles up the gravel
path, he found his mother, the
girls and Sol Jones in the sitting-
room.
Sol Jones did the blacksmithing
and carpentering about the place.
He had black hair and warts on
his nose and blackheads on his
neck like frogs’ eggs in the dam.
His waistcoat hung open and his
grey - striped working - trousers
were, hitched to police-braces
with nails. But in the black-
smith’s shop on wet days, he was
like some dark king, beatingLgold
shoes in the blue light of the
forge and tossing them to sigh in
a Laurel tin while he talked
gently to the tethered horses.
Somehow, though, he looked out
of place in the sitting-room.
Their mother was explaining
about the arch, carving half-
circles with her hands, while Sol
nodded, a mattock over his
shoulder.
“You see, it’s quite simple,
Sol. Just a matter of knocking
the wall in. In fact, quite a small
hole would do for the time
being.”
“I get y’, all right,” Sol said ;
“as the saying is, Mrs. Graham.
You want a big sorter doorway
—a harch, like.” He fumbled in
the pocket of his loose waistcoat.
“There you are now! I’ve gone
and left the makings in the shop.
There wouldn’t be a smoke in the
house by any chance, would
there, Mrs. Graham?”
“Why, of course, Sol. I’m so
sorry.”
Their mother hurried out as if
she had negected a favorite
visitor.
“This harch, now,” Sol said.
“We’re mates, ain’t we? Y’r
Mum seems terrible steamed-up
—terrible *steamed-up over some-
thing. The Dad would know
all about this harch now,
wouldn’t he?” jerking his
charcoal head towards the, wall.
But Janet had set her lips and
shaken her head at Babs.
“Ah!” breathed Sol. “Yes, I
was just saying to the kids here,
Mrs. Graham: That seems a
terrible nice sorter wall to be
knocking a hole in Thank
you, I’m sure. It’s not every day
y’ get a tailor-made, if you
catch me.”
“Well, Sol, you_ know what’s
to be done.”
“Here,” Sol said, stepping after
her. “Just a shake, Mrs.
Graham. Them joists, now.
Might bring the whole house
down over our ears.”
“Don’t be silly, Sol. Those
walls are two-foot through.”
“Two-foot? Now would they
be that now? Two-foot! Hum.
then there’s not much use
titivating ’em with the mattock
then. That’s a certain.” And he
sighed. “Tell you what, now.
I’d best talk this over with the
boss. Two-foot! ”
“Sol,” their mother said. “Are
you going to knock a hole in that
wall or aren’t you?”
“Now if you put it to me like
that, now, Mrs. Graham . . . ”
Sol was fumbling in the other
pocket of his waistcoat.
“Wouldn’t be a light in the house
anywhere, would there? Seems
I’ve left the matches, too.”
“Give me that pickaxe,” their
mother cried. “Men! They call
themselves men !"
And seizing the mattock in
her sinewy brown hands, she
swung it behind her head. A
split ran up the wallpaper.
Plaster fell. Three times she
struck before, pale and straight,
she handed the mattock back to
Sol.
“There,” she said. “Carry
on.”
“Well, now.” Sol gazed in
admiration at this wild young
wife the boss had taken. “Well,
now, Mrs. Graham, that makes
all the difference! How big
would you be wanting this hole?”
But she had walked quickly
out of the room.
“Lend a hand now, Billy,” Sol
cried. “I’ll be wanting some
trestles.”
“Sssssss! ”
Janet caught Billy’s arm.
The curtain over Miss Frost’s
door, stirred. A latch clicked.
“She was listening!”
IX
'T'HAT night there was an angel
A passing.
The Colonel saw the hole as
he squared his feet to drink his
whisky. Luckily the decanter
was at hand. He broke the rule
of several year? and felt better.
Conversation that night was
about women in history and the
consequences. The children went
to bed hushed. Nothing was
said about the hole.
The trestles stood against the
wall of the sitting-room; the
plaster lay where it had fallen;
the snapping of the typewriter
and the ringing of its warning
bell sounded 7 clearly through the
gap. But otherwise it was as if
it had never been. This went on
for five days. On the sixth, the
Colonel began to move his files
to a room in the old part of the
house. On the seventh, he left
for Sydney to attend a military
dinner.
The angel had passed.
“I don’t know what it is,” Mrs.
Graham said, turning to find
Marshall beside her in the garden
after Sunday-lunch. “Spring
seems to have hidden away this
year. And then suddenly it is
like an explosion! ” She paused,
head on one side, as if listening.
“You can almost hear the
report.”
Down in the valley, the pallid
cuckoo laid his equal notes.
“Now, that there,” Marshall
said, pointing his toe, seeking a
concrete image for his feelings.
“Wouldn’t that be . . . ?” He
scratched his curly head.
“Ah,” said Mrs. Graham with
a little smile. “That you would
not know. It is not mentioned in
Thwaits.”
X
“THAT you, children?”
The children stirring in
their sleep'-out, looked at one
another.
“Yes, Dad,” Janet said.
It was the first they knew of
their father’s return.
“Well! Well! Haven’t you
got a kiss for your poor old
father?”
In a moment pyjama’d figures
were clambering over the sill
into the shadowy bedroom.
“Don’t forget your dressing-
gowns,” from their mother. But
it was too late. They were
already bouncing on to the wide
brass-knobbed bedstead where
they all had been born.
Their father was lying back
with his teeth out, his moustache
raised in a smile, the abrupt line
of his collar showing at his open
neck.
“That’s the kids! That’s the
kids!”
Janet covered him with kisses.
Billy, wondering whether to
shake hands, was pulled down,
too. Babs rode ride-a-cock-
horse on his blanketed toe.
Their mother lay beside him,
smiling and rested, the plaits of
her brown hair out on the pillow
like a girl’s.
“Well now, well now,” when
the first excitement was over.
“Billy, go to that cupboard there
and bring me —ahrum —there’s
something there.”
And Janet’s eyes were plates
as he brought out a new cowtail
stockwhip.
“Whizzz! ”
He ducked for the door,
remembered, kissed his father;
and the next second the fall
stung, echoing in the frost.
“Billy! You’ll catch cole.”
“I got myself a good one,” he
said, returning, showing the red
weal.
In the second cupboard was a
brass sewing-machine for Janet,
and more abandoned kisses while
Babs spied through the crack of
the third.
“It really works,” Janet said.
“Andy, you’ve been
marvellous! ” *
“Chose ’em all myself,” smiled
their father. “Took the whole
morning. Now Babs: yes, that’s
right.”
The little girl turned crest-
fallen from the open cupboard,
a thin-spouted watering-can in
her hand. She looked at it, she
looked up, her lip trembled.
“Is this all?” she said.
“Darling, how marvellous!”
called their mother, while Janet
and Billy pulled faces and
scowled. “Now you’ll be able to
help me water the garden.”
“Would you like something
else, Babs?”
“Yes,” she said over her lip.
And this fabulous new father
clambered long-legged out of


&
mm
MOTHERS!
be sure
IT’S “STAMINA”
. . . because Stamina tunics
are scientifically stronger .. .
made to take extra years of
rugged, school-time wear and
tear . . . made stronger,
tougher, better, with an extra
wide hem so the tunic can
grow with the girl.
And, like all Stamina clothes,
these attractive tunics are
cut from the very finest, all-
wool worsted material ob-
tainable in Australia cloth
woven from top-quality pure
Australian Merino wool.
Available in a full range of
sizes, and priced from 62/- to
112/6d., Stamina school tun-
ics cost much less and last
much longer.
And, girls remember, there is a
free, special gift packet of those
famous “Women of Stamina” cards
in the pocket of every tunic. It is
put there just for you.
The Stamina label means guaranteed
goodness.
CLOTHES
ASK FOR
Stamina
SCHOOL TUNICS
[ED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
ST 1.113
bed, and came back from his
dressing-room with a bar of
chocolate. Babs took it and
smiled. For once there was no
mention of not eating before
breakfast.
“Usually,” their father said,
lying back with his family around
him. “Usually I don’t bring
presents. I like to be welcomed
for my own sake. But since I’ve
broken the rule . . . Janet, is
there anyone we’ve forgotten?”
“Ah! ”
“Yes, Josephine,” he said
seriously. “I saw Braddocks on
the way in. He’ll have men out
in a day or two to put that arch
through and plaster the other
room.”
The ring was complete.
“Yes,” he said later. “After
thinking it over—l like the idea.
It’ll be somewhere to sit at;
night.”
“These men ...” Mrs.
Graham’s voice was tentative,
for she knew her husband’s
moods. “You say they’ll be out
in a day or two?”
“Women!” the Colonel
laughed. “Women! They go
on as if life will be over at
any minute!”
XI
AND, indeed, life was very
different for five or six days.
The table-talk swaggered with
military terms; Mr. Blake was
drawn out and found to have
wit; their father’s face glowed
like the hearth; and the arch
went through.
Miss Frost was a treasure at
this time, sitting into the still
of night stitching curtains ; pins
and thread sprouting like hairs
from her thin lips. The late hours
are the hours of intimacy, and
the two women, bent over the ash
of coals, would meet each other's
glance with the smile of
conspirators.
“No, no, Frosty. I give you
all the credit.”
On the opening night there
was wine for dinner —crusted
bottles borne lovingly from the
box-room, that burnt in the
mind like dusty jewels—and the
children were allowed to stay up
late in pyjamas and dressing-
gowns. The pianola had been
moved into the new bright room
with its sweeping arch and
striped curtains, and they all
stood around it, their father
singing in a sad old-fashioned
voice, their mother’s notes
climbing, and the governess and
overseer high and low behind.
Only Mr. Blake excused himself ;
he left before nine to write some
urgent letters for the morning
mail.
O wert thou in the cold blast,
on yonder lea, on yonder
lea . . .
Their father pedalling, took
their mother’s hand, his eyes
away with the curlews, remem-
bering his own Scottish mother
and the alien drought outside.
Miss Frost’s head settled a
moment against Mr. Marshall’s
arm.
“Oh, I’m so sorry! I must
have dropped off to sleep.”
“Yes,” said their mother. “It’s
late. The children are tired.”
Babs was curled up on a
cushion, pink hand open and
spread.
“Ups-a-daisy!”
The two women looked down
at the sleeping heads in the sleep-
out. A kiss and tiptoe out.
“Yes,” said Mrs. Graham in
the hall. “It was a great success.
Thank you.”
“You know,” said Miss Frost,
feeling for the Christmas hand-
kerchief. “I’ve never had a friend
like you before. I feel I could
tell you anything.”
“Yes, my dear. I feel the
same.”
“Then perhaps I should tell
you. I’m older than you are.
There’s been talk.”
“Talk?”
“Oh, I know it’s not true. I
don’t believe it for a moment.
But I should warn you. There’s
been talk about you and Mr.
Marshall.”
“Mr. Marshall!”
“Yes, my dear. I wouldn’t
walk with him in the garden if I
were you.”
“Miss Frost!”
Mrs. Graham’s heart was
fluttering like a bird gripped by
hands ; but the governess’s eyes
were steady.
“You know what people say.”
. “Miss Frost! I’ll ask you—
I’ll ask you please to go away.”
The governess turned and
walked into the sitting-room
without a word.
“Oh.”
The side-door creaked’behind
her, and the arrows of the stars
found her heart.
“Oh, how could she!”
Mrs. Graham was feeling sick.
She walked on loose legs to the
gate by the rubbish-bin and
leaned over it, her mind numb,
gazing out over the woodheap
to the glassy paddocks beyond.
How long she leaned there, she
did not know—an eternity of
pain. She was roused by
scufflings in the woodshed and
found she was shaking all over.
Two figures were coming
towards her in the shadow of the
elms. Mrs. Graham crouched
down behind the rubbish-bin.
They brushed past her, giggling
—Elsie and Mr. Blake.
XII
NEXT morning their mother
had a bad cold. Miss Frost
made her hot lemon-drinks and
foments, but she refused them,
whistling about her housework
as if nothing was the matter with
her—a faint high whistle with a
trailing tail.
“Mummy,” Janet said. “I
think you should be in bed.”
“No, no. I’m all right, dear.
Now I must get on with my
work.”
And she set about her duties
with a new briskness and
efficiency.
“Billy,” she said. “I wish
you’d wipe your boots before
coming into the new room.”
After dinner she and their
father carried their coffee
through the archway, and Mr.
Marshall’s eyes followed the
children curiously as they trailed
through to say goodnight.
“Ah,” their father said, look-
ing over his glasses. “Very nice
to be reduced to the family
again!” He went less to the
office now, and had set himself
to reread Dickens. The book
lay open on his lap. “Pity about
that cold, Josephine.”
As they walked back through
the sitting-room, Mr. Marshall
was stretching a skein of wool.
“And if you’re a good boy,”
Miss Frost was saying archly,
“I’ll knit the next pair for you.”
But when her cold cleared a
little, Mrs. Graham was forgiv-
ing. The governess had been so
good about the archway and her
hot drinks.
“Frosty,” she began. “I’ve no
doubt you meant well . . .”
The eyes that met hers were
cold and grey.
Mrs. Graham turned away
haughtily. The ritual was
established.
XIII
THE main trouble about the
move was Babs’s ducks.
“But Babs,” their mother said,
holding her chest and coughing,
“we’ll be coming back; we’ll
only be at grandfather’s a month
or two. Oh, this wretched
cough!”
It shook her lean body, paling
her lips—a cough she could not
shake off.
Babs’s lips went down.
“But Miss Frost won’t feed
them. They’ll die, I know.”
In the end the five ducks were
crated and went forward with
the luggage. At the station, the
children walked along to the
brake to see them.
“See, they still know me,”
Babs said. “Now then, Sam,
girls first.”
The ducks savaged the lettuce-
leaf, long, colored snake-heads
through the bars of the crate.
“Look after yourself,” their
father said at the window. “I’m
glad I insisted. Two months is
too long for a cough like that.
We don’t want to lose her, do
we?”
They kissed.
“And don’t worry about me.
Miss Frost can look after things.”
He stood for a long time with
his hat high, watching the toy
train curve through the bleached
paddocks.
Mr. Blake was travelling in a
different compartment.
“Janet!” their mother said at
the junction. “I forbid you to
speak to him. Mr. Blake is in
disgrace.”
“He doesn’t seem to know,”
Billy said.
“That’s enough, Billy. Besides,
he’s not even a gentleman!”
Elsie had been found to be
with child.
“What does a gentleman do?”
Janet asked.
Mr. Blake, standing beside his
golf-clubs, waved. One lip
curled a little as if he knew a
secret. The children marched
off up the platform to water the
ducks.
XIV
TT was early winter before they
returned. Yellow leaves
mottled the drive and horses
threw their heads in the frosty
air.
“And to think we were in
shirt-sleeves!” Billy said.
“Here’s mych better,” from
Janet.
“Oh, yes. Of course.”
Miss Frost cried when she met
their mother at the gate.
“You look so young,” she
said.
But Mrs. Graham had a new
composure.
“And Mr. Marshall!” She
took his hand. “Do you still
know the names of those
flowers? Oh, dear, how long ago
that does seem—a lifetime!”
And she sighed, walking down'
the front path. How much
smaller the house and garden
seemed! A little sad, somehow,
with the bare trees and blowing
leaves. Almost shabby.
In the study after dinner*,
Colonel Graham dropped his
voice, nodding his head towards
the archway.
“Funny thing,” he said. “Like
a couple of turtles! Can’t see it
myself.”
But his wife was stirring her
coffee, Smiling gently at the heart
of the fire.
SONG IN THE HUTT
VALLEY
Cirrus, stratus, cumulus,
Gentle or giant winds
Invoke the trees and cabbages;
The rising jet-trail finds
Space out of sight and valleys
Where the muddy river runs
Past houses, groves and alleys
In the residential sun.
The placid eaves of evening
Purpled by homing sun
Take small account of reckoning
Broadcast by weatherman.
Houses still grow, the children
Like cabbages are seen;
Grandfather’s thoughts are
hidden
Upon the bowling-green
The sky’s enough ambition
For anyone to eye;
Forecasts of xiimbus, aeroplane,
Pass over, and pass by; ,
And sleeping home, the passive
With some feet on the ground
Sleep though the radio-active
Have a new formation found.'
The weather is established—
It will be wet—or fine:
The houses have been furnished
Since eighteen sixty-nine.
No need to worry, hurry.
The weather yet will keep.
The clouds and airmen marry
And the boisterous children sleep.
N.Z.
LOUIS JOHNSON.


\
\
/
N
s.
.-ns
■/
\ '
S. '«■.
m
' ///I!
U) W
(/) h
lii «/)
<
X
o
3
O i/)
O 5
o
ft,
Tyres racing up ramps . . •
hurtling through the air . . .
to batter into the bitumen
at 60 M.P.H. . . . tyres jug-
gernauting their way across
railway sleepers . . . tyres
spiked with nails and still
running safely. That's the kind
of torture that proved Good-
year Tubeless the toughest,
safest tyre ever built.
good/tear
TUBELESS
THE TYRE OF TOMORROW TODAY
PD2
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PAUL JOHN GANNON late of 43
Mary Street St. Peters in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that VALERIE EILEEN GANNON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 407 of
1955 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Second day of July 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHILLIP HUGH GALLEN late of 31
Spring St., Bondi June.—TAKE NOTICE
that FREDA MARGARET GALLEN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2840 of
1954 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 25th July 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
J. F. RICHARDSON & CO., Solicitors, of
333 George Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANGESTELLTE LIESELOTTE
MAROSZ late of 40 Mona Road Darling
POINT.—TAKE NOTICE that TADEUSZ
MAROSZ has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3853 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 30th day of July
1965 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. LIGH-
TOLLER TALTY & BROOKE, of 2b
Castlereagh St., Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BABREBE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who'have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3n), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of A Drum for Ben
Boyd (1948) and Leichhardt in
Theatre (1952), both by Francis
Webb.—6os9.
To buy copy of Vaudeville by
Ronald McCuaig.—6o6o.
To buy copy of Insects of Aus-
tralia by Tillyard and What Butter-
fly Is That? by Waterhouse. —6058.
Information Sought
A few particulars about Muntz
metal ?
Muntz metal is a brass contain-
ing 60 per cent, copper and 40 per
cent. zinc. It is also known as
“yellow metal” or 60:40 brass, and
is described in a pamphlet “Copper
and Its Alloys in Engineering and
Technology” (Copper Development
Association, Trafalgar Square, Lon-
don). It is manufactured in the form
of hot rolled-plate, and is largely
used for the sheathing of small
craft, the end-plates of condensers
and similar purposes. As it is non-
ferrous, it will not rust. The
corrosion-resistant properties of
Muntz metal are described in
“Corrosion Resistance of Copper
and Copper Alloys” (The American
Brass Co., Connecticut, U.S.A.).
Copper and copper-alloys, in general,
have good resistance to corrosion.
Muntz metal is described as not
suitable for use with, e.g., ammonia
or acetic-acid.
* * * *
Who .was the censorious being
known as Mrs. Grundy?
Mrs. Grundy was the name of an
imaginary English character who
typifies the disciplinary control of
the “proprieties” of society over
conduct, the tyrannical pressure of
the opinion of neighbors on the acts
of others. The name appears in a
play of Thomas Morton, “Speed the
Plough” (1798), in which one of the
characters, Dame Ashfield, continu-
ally refers to what her neighbor Mrs.
Grundy will say as the criterion of
respectability. Mrs. Grundy is not
a character in the play, but is a
kind of “Mrs. Harris” to Dame
Ashfield.
* * * *
How to tan a kangaroo-skin, or
where could I get it tanned in
Melbourne ?
Soak the skin in clear water for
four hours, then run off the dirty
water, and cover with clean water
for 24 hours. If the skin has been
dried before treatment, a further 24
hours should be allowed for soaking.
Make up a- hair-remover by putting
151 b. lime in 50 gals, water, and
immerse skins. Handle each day,
and leave until the hair comes off
easily (six or seven days). Wash well
with a lot of water after removing
hair, pieces of flesh, fat, etc. Tan
in a solution of £lb. alum and jjlb.
salt in one gallon water; remove
when tanning appears to be com-
plete (probably in two or three days).
Drain well, but do not wash. When
fairly dry, rub in neatsfoot-oil, hang
up, allow to dry slowly. Pull and
stretch to make soft. To have the
work done by a tanning-firm, consult
the pink pages of the Melbourne
telephone-directory under “Tanners.”
* * * *
Would a snake die if run over by
one wheel of a 30cwt. car on a hard
road?
h£r. J. R. Kinghom, at the Aus-
tralian Museum, Sydney, advises
that: “No hard-and-fast rule would
govern this matter. On a normal,
unsealed country road a snake might
be killed immediately or receive only
minor injury, depending on the speed
of the car and the condition of the
road-surface. In personal experi-
ence on the soft, dusty roads in the
irrigation - areas of south - west
N. S. Wales, I have run over brown-
snakes with varied effects. The back
of one was broken because the snake
was pressed against a small stone.
Another had its head squashed;
others did not appear to suffer very
much. They lashed about and dis-
appeared into the grass with unknown
results. On a hard, metal-surfaced
road, with some loose gravel, I have
run over and killed two copper-
heads. This was between Jenolan
and Oberon (N.S.W.), with a car of
21cwt. I have had no experiences
with snakes on first-class sealed-
roads. A good deal would depend
on the condition of the tyre. A hard
tyre, with good tread, should kill a
snake despite speed, whereas a well-
worn, soft tyre might pass over it
without apparent injury. However,
should a tyre pass over a snake near
or over the heart, I have no doubt
that internal injury would eventually
result in death.”
*** ' *
Is it now believed that the Gospel
according to St. Mark is the oldest
Gospel ? Why ?
Yes. Most Christian scholars now
hold that the Gospel of Mark was
the first of the Gospels to. be con-
signed to writing. The dates usually
accepted for the Gospels are Mark
(a.d. 65-70), Matthew about 75 and
Luke 80-95. Main proof that Mark
is the oldest is that Matthew and
Luke both rely on Mark for part of
their narrative. If material common
to the three is arranged side by side
the order of passages is sometimes
Matthew and Mark against Luke,
sometimes Luke and Mark against
Matthew, but never Matthew and
Luke against Mark — prima facie
evidence that it is Mark that is
copied. {Matthew, it is now regarded
as certain, was not written by the
Apostle.) John is dated later than
the other three— a.d. 135-140 by
Professor Alfred Loisy.
Brief Answers
C.L.: An atomic bomb was first
detonated experimentally on July 16,
1945, and first used operationally at
Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, and
at Nagasaki on August 9, 1945
E.K.: Frank Gardiner, the bush-
ranger, was released from jail in
July, 1874, when he had served 10
years, on the understanding that he
would leave Australia. He went to
San Francisco and lived an honest
life until his death, which probably
occurred in 1890 H.M.: You will
find references to him in Philip
Mennell’s The Dictionary of Aus-
tralasian Biography, Percival Searle’s
Dictionary of Australian Biography,
J. A. Froude’s Oceana and Stanley
Brogden’s The Sudan Contingent....
A.A.: Lake Eyre North was reported
to be two-thirds covered at the
beginning of April, with water still
flowing .into it from the Frome,
Macumba and Diamantina Rivers.
Water from Cooper’s Creek is
expected to enter Lake Eyre in June,
but it is considered unlikely that the
level in the lake this year will reach
that of 1949-50...'.J.J.: The article
“Wren and His Ruffians: A
Notorious Bird of Prey” appeared in
“The Lone Hand” for May, 1907,
pages 82-89....J.J.: P. I. O’Leary’s
Bard in Bondage published by Haw-
thorn Press, Melbourne, 1954; price
275. 6d W.L.: The book was
M. E. Herman’s The Early Austra-
lian Architects and Their Works,
published by Angus and Robertson,
Sydney A.K.McK.: Write Book
Collectors’ Society of Australia,
Box 905, ' G.P.0., Sydney ....
W.WJ.: Holtermann’s Nugget was
found at Hill End (N-S.W.) in 1872.
Its gross weight was 75600 z. and it
was valued at £12,000. An article
on Holtermann appeared in The
Bulle’tin as faf back as March 3,
1880 L.M.N.: J. F; Archibald’s
famous advice to Bulletin contri-
butors before submitting a manu-
script to “boil it down” appeared in
The Bulletin of May 14, 1892.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
F.W.: Not keen on that smile-
all-the-while sort of thing J.M.S.:
There is apparently a laugh in it
somewhere, but it has eluded us.
.... 8.L.: “The Coronation of King
Billy” is an ambitious but unsuccess-
ful attempt... .P.T.: Received with-
out any hosannas R.D.: No, we
wouldn’t call your swan a goose,
but it isn’t quite thf bird for us.
A.D.L.: One stanza from the
tribute to your friends .“beyond the
city’s gates”:—
So here’s to the mates that are toiling
outback,
The hardboiled sons of a roistering
crew,
Away in the mulga lands, doing their
whack
On bully-beef, damper, mutton and
stew!
C.SX: Your knowledge of the
Nullarbor Plain doesn’t seem to go
beyond spelling the word correctly.
A.F.: Should have gone to the*
paper which published the original
stuff... .V.M.: The teetotaller who
gets drunk on “non-alcoholic” beer
has ceased to be funny.. ..H.J.8.:
It would be hard to frame any
“apologies to Mr. Kipling” that
would meet your sad case....
G.P.S.: Before we were half-way
through your rhymed rigmarole we
found ourselves bogged to the axle.
. ...P.W.: Your modesty disarms
any criticism except that you fail
to rise out of th& commonplace
W.K.L.: Embittered reflections of
“Old Jim” on the flash coots and
scented hussies of the city strik
no new note... .N.A.: Read fewe
thrillers, and don’t call your yam
“Retribution” L.T.D.: How d
these crooks get hold of poison
“unknown to medical science”? .. •
A.R.: The girl who began to fin
previously undiscerned shortcomings
in her lover after having shaken
hands with the Lord Mayor strain
our credibility... .F.K.R.: There i
only one good line in it and tha
is a quotation E.C.: Tired o
simpletons who beat cardsharpers a
their own game. Still, yours was
slight variation; usually the hero i
a parson H.M.P.: “Think: o
the child, Harold, your child, my
child.” Now, where have we heard
that before? F.J.N.: Four lines
from your poem describing “A
narrow escape from a four-wheeled
juggernaut recklessly driven in
George-street”:
For old codgers that walk for pleasure
Or little toddlers strolling with their
mars,
Each modem highway full of peril is
From the wild drivers of motor-cars.
D.M.C.: “Excuse the typing!"
We’ll excuse anything but the verse.
K. : “Hail! Happy Day”
wasn’t hailed at this end R.S.:
Young man unable to pay for an
engagement-ring, picks up fifty
quid, everything all right—what an
exciting plot! P.P.: The killing
of one’s closest friend before recogni-
tion is on our list of hackneyed
plots... .WJ.W.: Once more the
providential gold-nugget comes to
the rescue of the short-story writer
stuck for an ending C.McK.:
Send that drunk to a Rechabite
journal S.McA.: Throws no new
light on the uselessness of fleas
N.G.: You had one thin story to
tell, so you entwined it with another
thin story with the idea of making
one strong one. It didn’t work
L. : Tooth-pulling episode was
rejected for the third time. Appar-
ently you have only one story to
te11.... C.F.: Same old tale about
the precious stone which brings death
to all that own it H.W.Y.: A
rather aimless description of a pub
brawl... .P.S.: The dream-ending is
generally used by an author trying
to explain the seemingly incredible.
....J.S.: “Don’t waste words!”
Thanks for supplying the criticism
of your own story L.J.K.: If
you continue to turn out such
atrocities you’ll need a larger incinera-
tor... .S.G.S.: Your timely warning
must have a place:—
Beware of the urger with the oily tongue!
Beware of the wicked racecourse tout!
Many are in jail and ought to be hung,
But a lot of them are roaming about.
W.H.D.: Nothing to say about
that sort of verse except that school-
girls can do it by the furlong
H.Q.: Too many unimportant
characters obtrude E.McC.: “It
may be love, I cannot say.” It reads
more like the aftermath of ’flu.


Burns-Johnson, Larry Foley Sidelights-
“Velly Funny Gentlemen”
By GEORGE LAURI
IN 1908 an American Fleet
visited Australia. Out of
that visit the subsequently
world - famous Sydney
Stadium was born.
Not long before the visit a
man who was destined to become
a world-figure in pugilism had
emerged from the chrysalis of
catering, and had tried his
’prentice hand at promotion, in
connection with a £lOOO cycle-
race. Hugh D. Mclntosh.
The results were not entirely
satisfactory, but the bug had
bitten deep, and Mac’s ardor
was not dampened. With the
Fleet’s visit in mind, Mac
promoted a company called
Amusements, Ltd. With charac-
teristic promptitude, he cornered
all available launches, seats,
public recreation-grounds, etc.,
he could find in Sydney, with a
view to creating a monopoly over
all outdoor amusements.
At the time Sydney’s amuse-
ments included, incidentally; a
very peaceful Wild West Show at
the Agricultural Ground, and a
band-contest, sparsely attended,
at the Sports Ground,- where
“Gus” Slapofski, the judge, sat
in a tent which was eventually
pulled down about his ears by the
fury of defeated bandsmen when
his decision was announced.
Music may soothe the savage
breast and yet have no softening
effect on the civilised soul of an
enraged euphonium-player.
As a graceful tribute to the
visiting Yanks, Mac had engaged
the then world’s champion
Tommy Burns to come to .Sydney
and knock the block off Bill
Squires for the third or fourth
time —I really forget which.
And now the difficulty arose of
a location whereon a building
might be erected capable of
accommodating 20,000 people.
Sites were sought. There was
an ideal one in Moore Park, but
the Sydney Council’s terms were
prohibitive. Mac was in despair,
when one of the Wynnes (of the
old “Daily Telegraph”) dropped
on the present site at Rushcutter
Bay, and secured it for the extra-
ordinary rental of £6 a week,
with an option of purchase.
Meanwhile, George Hudson
had prepared rough plans to fit
in with any size or shape of
ground. Within a few hours of
the lease being signed the timber
was on the location and they had
started erecting the Stadium—a
name suggested to Mac.
It was all done on the
travelling-circus principle, and
practically held itself together.
Came the day of the fight. The
Stadium was staffed with men'
employed in all branches of the
theatrical working-departments
(actors and producers barred).
The doors opened as the last
reserved chair was ticketed, and
that day, without a hitch, the
place seated 14,000.
What Burns did to “Boshter”
Bill amused everyone but Bill.
Flushed with success, Mad went
to Melbourne and staged the
Burns-Lang fight, and nearly
died of heart-failure when Lang
knocked his drawcard kicking in
one of the rounds. Tommy got
going after that —but why dwell
on a strong man’s agony? Lang
lost, that’s all.
Later came the black prince,
Jack Johnson. The übiquitous
Percy Hunter had booked up the
big darkie for Mclntosh in
Paris. There ensued a whirlwind
publicity - campaign. Public
interest rose to fever-heat, and
seats were booked from all parts
of Australia. The fight was listed
for an early hour on Boxing
Day, in order not to clash with
the Randwick race-meeting.
At 8.30 on the Monday morn-
ing Mac called the attendants’
roll. The appointment of a
referee had built a pack of
trouble, and the cullud man’s
calm and lofty assurance when-
ever an argument arose did much
to unnerve and upset the highly-
strung Burns.
At last, in desperation, Mac
appointed himself.
The police had warned that a
forged lot of the cheaper-priced
seats were on sale. Mac laughed
the idea to scorn, as the genuine
“briefs” were all printed on
specially watermarked paper and
had Amusements, Ltd.’s seal
impressed before issue. Sixty-
pounds’-worth of forged tickets
were presented, and the holders
passed in before the fraud was
detected. The police then
arrested some men at the top of
Bayswater-road.
It later transpired that the
bogus tiqkets had been printed
in North Sydney, and the com-
pany’s seal had been imitated in
Melbourne, but Mac never found
out how the information as to
the quality and color of the
genuine tickets got out of the
office.
The crowd stretched from the
Stadium up to King’s Cross.
Mounted-police did their best to
regulate traffic, but many ticket-
holders never reached the gate.
Mr. Bateman, a well-known
publican, had sent in a hamper
of champagne and chicken. Mac
blessed him for his kindly act,
and fell to. Later he found that
the hamper was intended for Mr.
Bateman himself and some
friends, who arrived just as he
was brushing away the crumbs
of the feast.
To add insult to injury, Mr.
Bateman had also had his name
taken in vain that morning. Mac
received a message that he was
outside and couldn’t get in, so
went along and found not the
famous publican, but a well-
known Turf laddie of the same
name. The artful one pleaded
with Mac to pass him through to
the ringside. Mac couldn’t do
that, but told him that if he
could work his way in he
wouldn’t interfere with him.
Later, when Mclntosh went into
the ring to make the official
announcements he happened to
glance in the direction of
Johnson’s corner. There, grin-
ning up at him, was the rugged
countenance of Master Bateman.
Regarding the fight, what hap-
pened to Burns needs no retelling.
For the first time in the history
of pugilism the world’s heavy-
weight championship passed into
the keeping of a blackskin.
Mitchell, as police superin-
tendent-in-charge, stopped the
slaughter in the thirteenth round.
When Johnson left the
Stadium a big chap jumped on
the footboard of his car and
punched him on the nose. The
big darky merely flashed his
golden smile.
Mac took £34,000 at the fight
and £36,000 for picture-rights.
With the Burns - Johnson
fight safely tucked away, life in
Sydney dropped back to normal
—at least as normal as life could
be in that city then.
One Frank Guellette, an
American with large sporting-
interests in China and elsewhere
about the Far East, had during
the weeks prior to the fight
become a great friend of mine.
Over the glass that cheers, he
suggested that I needed a holiday.
“Perhaps a run around China
and Manila would do you
good?” he said. “Oh,” —seeing
my look of amazement —“it will
be no trouble for you. Allow
me to explajn ...”
And so I found myself with a
round tin-box in which reposed
Mr. Jack Johnson and Mr.
Tommy Burns figures on
celluloid. Cinema.
For six months I toured China
with my little tin-box, and Jack
and Tommy proved to be the
comedy sensation of the cinema-
theatres !
“Most amusing, velly funny
gentlemen, much considered
superior to Charlie Chaplin,”
was the general verdict.
During the tour I found time
for fun-and-games, and time for
much thought, too —what with
Chinese heads being chopped off
and stuck on long poles, a warn-
ing to bandits of what happened
when they were caught; a dinner
with a mandarin and his four
wives, which lasted for five
hours;. the ever-hot towel after
every course, with which one
wiped hands and face; the sing-
song girls doing slow-motion
movements to strange music;
sweet white wine, which, after a
time, closed the eyes, sending
dreams of fiery dragons, about to
devour you; the air filled with
the perfume of joss-sticks; the
soft rustle of the silk and satin
trousers of the little Dresden-
china wives, as they toddled
along on feet not more than
4in. in length. Plenty to think
about.
Showing two men, the big
black and the rugged white, try-
ing to slaughter each other was
indeed funny to the Chinese sense
of humor, but to the one who
gave the running-commentary,
always a round or two behind
the action of the film, so that it
had to be stopped while he
caught up, it wasn’t so funny.
Anyway, the film was a great
comedy - success throughout
China. And, in fact, by the time
I arrived back in Shanghai I was
myself beginning to believe it
was as funny as the Chinese
believed it to be . . .
4- +
And then, too, there was the
old White Horse, that then
famous sporting hostelry in
Sydney’s George-street.
In the saloon-bar champagne
flowed freely and young-’uns of
the Corinthian clan sipped their
pleasure gaily. Here the young
squatter, future judge, Queen’s
Counsel and budding mandarin
of medicine hobnobbed with
members of that band of
bruisers whose amazing fighting-
quality was to plant Australia’s
boxing-banner on the highest
peaks of world pugilism.
Black-browed Slavin ; modest
Jackson, swart and suave;
freckled Fitzsimmons, ape-
armed and spindle-legged; Griffo,
the incomparable, with his
bobbing bullet-head and amazing
skill; and Dawson, Gentleman
George, polite and unassuming.
Overall, with a rod of iron,
ruled the noblest Roman of them
all, Larry Foley.
A first-rate publican—fore-
runner of many famed fighters
who have followed this other
noble art, down to the latest, and
one of the best of them, Jimmy
Carruthers—Foley never let time
hang on the fists of his warriors,
or the thirst of his customers.
“Lissen t’ me, gents, d’ y’ see,-
,there’s a couple of willin’ lads
hoggin’ f’r blood, and if y’ pass
the hat round we’ll set ’em
goin’,” said Foley.
In a few minutes the “purse”
would be collected. Then an
adjournment to the gym. and
the joy of a desperate fight to a
finish between a couple of pugs
whose skill and bottom would
compare favorably with that of
any of the present - day
champions. Ah, well, Foley
sleeps with his Hibernian
fathers, the White Horse is but
a memory, and the grass is green
above a goodly number of its
roystering company.
I knew Foley well. He was
one of the people, shrewd,
diplomatic and honest in his deal-
ings with his patrons. These
qualities in his later years made
of him a successful businessman.
Economy decreed that I
should live‘at Waterloo. Foley’s
home at the time was on the same
route. Late at night I used to
make it my business to wait for
Larry, and we would walk home
together. As the garrotting
gentry were very busy at the
time, this was a wise precaution.
Foley’s magnificent shoulder-
spread was a veritable passport
to a peaceful evening stroll. Not
one or two or three garrotters
in their right mind would have
dared to intercept Mr. Foley.
The story goes that when Larry
was supposed to be training for
his bout with “Professor” Miller,
a sporting writer of the period
became persistent in a desire to
see Larry’s training-operations,
in order that he might convince
his readers that the great fighting
o Continued on page 34)
Burns and Johnson, as Norman Lindsay saw them at the time.


Research in Industry
No. 13 of a Series
trjny
ml
m
L
oj/T^
\\«3\ **
SSvSIkK
'Porcelain and Tower
Even on sunny, days the hiss and crackle of lightning
can be heard in a high building not far from Stourport-on-
Severn. Here there is an 1.C.1. factory producing electrical
ceramics, and almost every day huge porcelain insulators
are tested to the limit of their endurance in the factory’s
million-volt laboratory one of the largest in England.
High-voltage insulators made by Steatite and Porcelain
Products are serving the. electric power system of nearly
every country in the Commonwealth and, in particular,
they are being used in Tasmania’s hydro-electric scheme.
Equally important, though less spectacular, are the tiny
ceramic parts which the factory turns out at the rate of
millions a week for radio, television and radar equipment.
Some of these small pieces measure less than a tenth of an
inch across, and one has to be finished to an accuracy of a
quarter of one-thousandth of an inch before it can play its
tiny but essential role in the push-button tuning equipment
of radios. For the great and complex installations of the
world’s electricity networks, electrical ceramics made by
Steatite and Porcelain Products Ltd. are helping to make
electrical equipment of all kinds more durable, more com-
pact and more efficient.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
■ L.718.1377*
N3H3IIM WtOA HOI
HNIS 133JU3d 3 HI
Beautifully finished
polished stainless steel,
kind to dishes, saves work,
everlasting. There's a
size to suit your kitchen-
single or double bowl—ready
for installation.
For illustrated folder and
prices, see your hardware
merchant or write to
Wunderlich Limited,
Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
i§§
w
m
I STAINLESS
STEEL
SINKS
ASK FOR THEM AT YOUR
LOCAL HARDWARE STORE
SPORTIN NOTIONS
Melbourne’s best slayer,
Hellion, top-weight with 9.3 for
the Brisbane Cup, put up a grand
performance to win the Heroic
Handicap at Caulfield with a
welter-weight of 9.11. Although
the track was heavy Hellion
started a warm favorite. To
runner-up Sir Hamish he con-
ceded 381 b., and to third place-
getter Command 331 b. Hellion
may be given another Melbourne
outing before going north. His
four successive wins included the
Sandown and Australian Cups.
It is no wonder he can stay well;
his dam, Marie Annette by
Ronsard (imp.), traces back to
Martagon, sire of many stayers
in the past.
Redfield, a bright prospect for
the V.R.C. Grand National
Hurdle, to be run at Flemington
in July, has won at his last three
starts, and recorded his second
hurdle win when he easily
defeated the favorite, David
King, and Providore in the
Fiscom Hurdle, carrying 9.11.
Caulfield’s two-mile steeple
record was equalled by Noble
Law, who humped 12.2 over the
big stuff in and won by six
lengths.
Adelaide’s famous Goodwood
Handicap went to Copper Year,
favorite, who just got home in
a cracking finish from the flying
three-year-old Matrice. The six
was run in 1.1 If. It made
Copper Year’s sixth consecutive
win since he came back to
racing after being out nearly a
year—after winning the S.A.
Stakes as a two-year-old he
galloped on himself and badly
injured a foot.
Cragsley’s win at Canterbury
Park (Sydney) was his fourth in
a row, and made him outright
favorite for Brisbane Stradbrpke
Handicap on June 11. His only
run again before the Stradbroke
may be in a Doomben sprint.
Cragsley thrives on racing and
track-work. He carried Bst. at
Canterbury and drops 41b. in the
Stradbroke.
• V •
Apart from Cragsley, the only
other sprinter to draw attention
to his prospects in the Stradbroke
was Birdwood, who was having
his first run for three months.
Birdwood was a sprint highlight
in the autumn of last year when
he won the Victorian double,
the Oakleigh Plate and the New-
market. He then was regarded
as the best sprinter in Australia.
He returned to form in June of
last year, winning at Rosehill,
but again lost form and later
had a. change of stables. He
carried 9st. on Saturday and
drops to 8.10 in the Stradbroke.
The .seven furlongs of the Strad-
broke may be more to Bird-
wood’s liking than the Canter-
bury six and the longer straight
at Ascot should suit him.
Golden Honey was a ready-
made tip for the fillys’ division
of the Canterbury Two-year-old
Maiden, for the day concluded
“Honey Week” in Sydney.
Backed from 14’s to B’s, and with
W. Cook in the saddle, the
“honey-blonde” filly came home
to down the second favorite.
Rahuti, by a neck. Golden
Honey was bred by Eric Hadley
and is by A 1 Dakhil (imp.) from
Capel by Brueghel (It.) from
Kapuya by Linacre (imp.) and
tracing back to Chester.
Golden Galleon’s Canterbury
win was the N.Z. stayer’s third
Australian start and a smart
improvement on prior displays.
Sellwood had the visitor ready
for a flying start and he led all
the way. Golden Galleon is in
the Brisbane Cup on 8.4, which
is 81b. less than he, carried on
Saturday. He is bred to stay for
a week, and has won upwards
of £lO,OOO in stakes in New
Zealand.
The two-year-old Near Way
(imp.) colt, Timor had an impres-
sive win at Canterbury in Maiden
company. Though drawn wide,
his apprentice rider, E. Lee,
got him away smartly and he led
almost from start to finish.
Timor’s sire is a son of Nearco,
while his dam Ennyeye, is by
Genetout (imp.) from Aiwai by
Chief Ruler (imp.).
At Canterbury Daring Mac
won the second division of the
Ashbury Stakes. A week earlier
on the same track and with the
same weight and jockey, E.
Selkrig, he missed a place. This
time Selkrig rode him more
patiently and he went on to win
well.
Midget apprentice L. J. Bridge
is indentured to Randwick trainer
J. W. Cook. Though weighing
less than 6.7, he has a perfect
balance, good hands, and gets
everything from his mounts.
The stable gave him the ride on
Gypsy Tide (owned and trained
by his master) in the First Ash-
bury Stakes at Canterbury, and
the chubby-faced youngster
brought Gypsy Tide through well
in the straight. The lad wore a
broad smile as he passed the post
a clear winner.
“J.L.”: Brisbane’s veteran
jockey N. Percival, who won a
Melbourne Cup on White Nose,
claims that in his time he has
piloted just on 3500 winners.
‘You re not bringing that aboard, record or no record !”
“Kune”: At Coonabarabran
(N.S.W.) races the other day
there were only 13 horses, but
24 bookies. The first race was
abandoned because there were
no starters (all 22 nominations
scratched) and the other four
races had, respectively, three,
five, two and three starters. Yet
most of the fielders said they’d
had a good day!
» * m
N.S.W. Trotting Club held
the Trotters’ Derby at its out-
of-town course, Menangle Park.
Usually the race is anythipg but
spectacular and was again so.
The one horse to stand out was
the Victorian Trotters’ Derby
winner, Count Mirando. He
raced erratically, as in Mel-
bourne, but his speed carried
him through. He is a son of the
imported Medoro, the sire of
brilliant Victorian filly Medorina.
An eight-event programme at
the Melbourne Showground
wound-up the Victorian
Trotting Club’s current season.
In the Farewell Free-for-All
Avian Derby (1952 Inter-
Dominion winner) made a re-
appearance from stud duties
and went out second favorite to
his half-brother, Avian Again.
The old champion finished out
of a place, while Avian Again
was third, a head from the
winner, Derby Call, who was
half a head to the good of
ex-Enzedder Victory, Dale at
the finish. ,
Springfield Guy -paced his
way to an easy win in the fast-
class May Handicap at Syd-
ney’s Harold Park. With his
races always carefully chosen,
this brilliant five-year-old son of
Springfield Globe is an infre-
quent member of the also-rans.
He was a dashing winner of this
year’s Easter Handicap and his
name is being linked with the
next Inter-Dominion, to be run
at Harold Park.
Two other Springfield Globe
horses were impressive winners
at the Harold Park meeting,
Legal Claim and Glenwarree. A
four-year-old, Legal Claim easily
won his Qualifying Stakes.
Glenwarree is another smart
grandson of the mighty Globe
Derby.
New Zealand sire Gold Bar
was represented at the meeting
by two granddaughters, who
stepped it out nicely to win.
They were five-year-olds Fire
Barque and Final Choice. Fire
Barque is by Fire Bar, whose
blood on the dam’s side traces
to the Peter the Great-
Axworthy cross. Two wins in
two weeks are drawing atten-
tion to this mare. By the none-
too-famous Platinum Bar, Final
Choice is another speedy mare.
She had an easy passage and is
always hard to run down.
+
City beat Country 31-18 in
the Rugby League game at
S.C.G., eight points in the last
four minutes making the game
seem more one-sided than it
was. Three of Country’s key-
men were injured. Sporting
gesture by City allowed Brogan
to replace Country- and Test-
centre Harry Wells, out with
concussion after being heavily
tackled by City-centre Greg
Hawick. But, before Brogan
took the field, City added a
quick 10 points.
• *
The big Rugby Union game
was the University-Manly clash,
from which University emerged
the winner, 11-6. Manly won
the ball often in scrums, line-
outs and loose rucks, forwards
working furiously; and Manly
backs launched attack after
attack. Very fine defence by
University held Manly, and
points came from a crashing try
by Thornett and two penalty-
goals and a goal kicked by
Dowse. Manly’s new winger,
John Stanbrook, from Yeoval,
did well.
• • • •
In other R.U. games in Syd-
ney, Gordon beat St. George
14-3 ; Eastwood beat Northern
Suburbs 25-6 ; Eastern Suburbs
made a late rally to defeat
Randwick 17-6, and Parramatta
had a surprise win over Drum-
moyne 11-9.
* * •
Melbourne —they used to be
called Fuschias, but it’s Demons
now —remain undefeated in the
V.F.L. Though they started the
last quarter 1.2 behind at
Essendon, the Dons only got
three more behinds while Mel-
bourne kicked 3.7 to make it
10.13 to 8.11. At Carlton the
37,000 saw Collingwood race to
a 9.7 —3.1 lead and then outstay
the Blues for a 17.12 —12.17 win.
The rejuvenated Fitzroy made
it 15.9 —11.11 against Richmond,
South Melbourne swamped St.
Kilda by 25.16 to 4.8, Hawthorn
lost a hard game against North
Melbourne by two points
(13.15 to 14.7), and Footscray
went down to. Geelong and
defeat by 12.12 to 10.12.
The Ampol people announce
a golf-match for charity at
Sydney’s The Lakes course on
June 5. Competitors: Bob
Hope, Jack Davey, N. Von Nida,
O. Pickworth and “a leading
amateur.” Might be worth
seeing: A five-ball match should
be something out of this world.
* * *
Two 12-rounders headlined the
latest Leichhardt programme,
both exceptionally good. Charlie
Smith 9.7 met Bruce Blake 9.9
in the first, and Smith looked
like the best fistic prospect seen
about Sydney for a long time.
Blake’s southpaw stance seemed
made to order for Smith, who
kept leading rights at his
unorthodox opponent, although
it was a left that floored Blake
four seconds before the bell
ended the third. Smith was
always on top from then on,
and when another left dropped
Blake in the ninth, referee Jack
Burns counted five over him,
and then declared Smith winner
on a t.k.o. Another promis-
ing young boxer, Harold Piper
(9.0), met Max Simpson (9.2|).
Inches taller and longer in
reach, Simpson was speedier
than Piper, but the lighter lad
piled up points in almost every
round to win well.


JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
4T
A
wWA
«SBsi*
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
&
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Brushing your teeth with Colgate Dental Cream
instantly removes enzyme-producing bacteria and
/prevents tooth decay. Scientific tests showed that
the Colgate way of brushing teeth right after
eating stopped more decay for more people than
ever before reported in all dentifrice history.
ONE Brushing with Colgate Dental Cream removes
j Enzymes that cause Bad Breath end Tooth Pecay I
“moT
Holden value is
still further improved
Continuing the Holden policy of
constant improvement-, General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd. has pleasure
in announcing further engineering
advancements in Holden.
New front springs, new GMH Delco
shock absorbers front and rear, the reloca-
tion of rear shock absorbers forward of the
axle and new larger bumper rubbers result
in an even smoother ride. Steering is
improved by a new linkage which cushions
road shock particularly on harsh surfaces.
And further improvements have been made
to increase the life and economy of the
Holden engine already proved by more
than 180,000 owners.
Nozo —more than ever —Holden is
Australia’s finest value and a demonstration
ride will convince you.
Holden is the only car designed and built
for Australia and the only car offering this
ideal combination —six cylinder perform-
ance, six passenger comfort, low first cost,
high resale value, outstanding depend-
ability and 30 m.p.g. economy as reported
by many owners. A further advantage is
the ready availability of low cost factory
guaranteed Holden parts and service.
In view of the very heavy demand may we
suggest that you place your order as soon
as possible.
Holden*
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
* Registered Trade Mark
LIST PRICES
HOLDEN STANDARD SEDAN £B7O
HOLDEN BUSINESS SEDAN £893
HOLDEN SPECIAL SEDAN £915
All prices subject to Sales Tax
084
Convenient hire purchase arrangements are available through GMAC —General Motors’ own hire pur
company. • There are mo Air Chief car radios specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S ltd.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced bv Holden dealers throughout Australia
Barqain with Aarris
By D.J HisLop
DARKIE pulled the utility
off the road and watched
the cattle. There were
seven of them, walking
slowly along the pad at the side
of the road. The last of the six
limped on the near hindleg.
He had almost passed them
before he realised that the last
one limped. Then he remem-
bered seeing them when he’d
made the previous trip to
Mareena. But they were fifteen
miles away then, walking stolidly
along the pad at the side of the
wire fence that lined the coast
road. In four days they’d strayed
fifteen miles. Now they were
heading in the direction of the
turn off to Harris’s slaughter-
yard.
He pressed the button of the
starter, slipped the vehicle into
gear and the utility moved slowly
in the wake of the cattle. When
he could see the gate of the yard
he pressed harder on the
accelerator. As he was about to
pass them the front two beasts
stopped and looked at the
vehicle. Then the others stopped.
They stared morosely as the
utility passed, then, bowing
their heads, they continued the
slow swaying gait.
Just beyond where the track
led off the road and through the
gate he pulled the utility over so
that it blocked their progress.
As they came up to it, with him
standing beside it, his hands
raised and motioning them on,
they paused and looked at him
stupidly. Then they moved
forward slowly, through the gate-
way of the yard and along the
track that led down to the
slaughter-house. He drove the
utility into the paddock, shut
the gate, then, climbing back
into the driving seat, he went to
look for Harris.
Dressed only in shorts, Harris
was standing outside the
slaughter-house filling in a hole
with a spade when Darkie pulled
up at the ramp. Instinctively he
wondered what was in the hole,
but, whatever it was it was
covered when he got there.
Harris looked up at him in
surprise. “Early, aren’t y’„?” he
said.
“I don’t want my stuff yet.”
“Just as well. I haven’t
knocked it over yet. Was going
to tackle it soon as I finished
this.” He nodded at the hole.
“There’s something coming
along the track I want you to
look at. Do you know a brand
‘MRN’?’;
“Don’t mean a thing. Lot o’
those brands belong up the
scrub somewhere, sometimes
right up north. Wait a
minute” —— .He looked at
Darkie keenly as he paused in
what he was saying, “could I be
Morrison’s, over the Valley way.
That’s the dirty swine who
nearly got me in the blue last
year. Why?” he* said
sharply. “What about the
brand?”
Darkie opened the door of the
utility. “Hop in and I’ll show
you.”
'THEY had only gone about a
quarter of a mile along the
track when they saw the cattle
coming towards them. Darkie
pulled the utility off the track
ten yards wide of them. The
beasts paused just before they
drew level with them and lifted
their heads and stared. One of
them mooed and then began to
move forward. The others,
lowering their heads, followed
slowly along the track. ’
Darkie looked at Harris.
“What’s that lot worth?”
“Three-hundred quid.” He
said it automatically, without
thinking, as though the figure
was already in his mind the
moment he saw the cattle. He
was watching them through
narrowed eyes as they drew
further away. The expression
on his face showed how the
streak of greed in the man had
been awakened. “The swine,”
he said viciously, “he had nothin’
on me last time. I never touched
his blasted stock, and he nearly
got me put inside.” He'turned
to the man sitting beside him.
Darkie could feel the hard black
eyes of the man prying deep
into him. “I’m not keeping these
things here tonight”
“Well, what do you reckon?”
Harris stared at him a moment,'
trying to read his mind. “If
you want to be in it, we’ll knock
’em over tonight, the whole
bloody seven of ’em and you can
take ’em off the yard. I won’t
keep ’em here tonight at any
price. Give me a hundred-and-
fifty quid and we’ll call it quits.”
“You’re a bit hard”
Darkie grinned uncertainly.
“Hard me .” Harris half-
turned his head away in a gesture
of contempt. “What d’ you
reckon I ought to get out of it?
It’s my slaughter-yard. I’ll be
doin’ the killin’. I’ll be takin’
the rap if anything goes wrong.
You’re on a good wicket, mister.
You’ll clear a hundred-and-fifty
quid on this. What’s it t’ be?”
There was an ugly note in his
voice that couldn’t be missed.
Darkie said shortly, “All
right.”
“We’d better get ’em into the
pen and get stuck into it straight
away. It’ll probably be midnight
before we’ve fixed ’em.”
“Can’t you get any help?”
Harris shook his head
definitely. “Wouldn’t want any
help on this . job. Never trust
anybody to keep his mouth shut
unless he’s mixed' up in it him-
self.” He said it in ‘such a way
that Darkie couldn’t help but
see the point. “We’ll see what
you’re like with a .22.”
shot the first three
beasts. His first shot was
bad, and as the half-crazed
animal plunged Harris grabbed
the rifle from him, loaded
quickly, stood perfectly still while
he got his aim and then pulled
the trigger; The beast dropped
immediately.
Harris pointed to the spot
where the bullet had entered the
skull. “That’s the spot. See
what y’ can do with the other
two after I got this one fixed up.”
He made a good job of the
other two. He’d got over his
nervousness then.
It was dark by the time Harris
had cleaned the three bullocks
and thrown the twelve quarters
into the back of the utility. He
had lit a pressure-lantern which
threw a bright light over the
entire slaughter-house, garishly
highlighting the jumbled mess of
red and grey organs that littered
the floor.
The sight almost sickened
Darkie even now, after he’d
been working amongst it with
shoes and socks off and trousers
rolled above the knees for over
three hours.
While he was washing his feet
down and putting his shoes and
socks on, Harris had shot the
next animal and was already
setting about cleaning it.
“It’ll probably be a couple of
hours by the time I get this lot
off.” He called back to him as
he walked towards the utility.
“When y’r ready.” He didn’t
even look up from his work. So
obsessed with the task did he
become once he had started that
Darkie wondered if perhaps he
did not actually love the work
he was doing.
Outside the cold seemed to bite
into the skin of his face and
hands. But it was clean and fresh
after the foetid atmosphere of
the slaughter-house.
He pulled the canvas over
securely to hide the meat, and
{Continued on page 34)


BABCOCK
FULLY EQUIPPED
WITH FACILITIES AND EXPERIENCE
TO HANDLE ALL CONTRACTS
FOR STEAM-RAISING PLANT
Uf
This hydraulic press for bending steel plates
up to 5" thick Is one df the many items
of equipment recently installed at Regents
Park Works for the production of fusion-
welded boiler drums and pressure vessels.
The installed capacity of Babcock boilers has reached a
total of approximately 4,000,000,000 lb. of steam per hour.
This represents thousands of installations in central power
stations and industrial steam plants throughout the world,
providing ecQnomical steam generation with all types of
fuels of widely varying characteristics, from coal and oil to
bagasse and sunflower seeds. This wealth of experience
gained, plus intensive and continuous research work, is
embodied in all Babcock boilers and auxiliary equipment.
Babcock has maintained its pre-eminence in the field of
steam engineering and is proud of being entrusted with the
manufacture and supply of the steam-raising plant for the
first atomic power station at Calder Hall in the U.K., which
is now under course of construction. Extensive and superbly
equipped works at Renfrew, Scotland, and Regents Park,
N.S.W., provide unrivalled facilities for the manufacture of
boiler units and all the additional equipment, such as coal
and ash handling plant, which is used in the modern boiler
house.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
'Travelling Requisites
C.. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SENT) FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the Quest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupll
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
fimilr entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. . .Docket Book. Co. (Aust.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AUSTRIA AND THE SOVIET
Russia’s sudden haste to
restore Austrian independence
after 10 years of stalling is almost
unanimously interpreted by the
British and American press as a
change of face rather than a
change of heart.
The Russian move came only
when ratification of the Paris
Agreements to rearm Western
Germany was inevitable; and,
as the commentators have it, a
free and united Austria .is a
Soviet bait to lure West Germany
away from the idea of rearma-
ment and partnership in the
Western alliance and towards
some hope of achieving German
unification by making a deal with
Moscow.
As Lord Vansittart comments
in a letter to London “Daily
Mail,” “this change of tactic
[by Russia] has misled people
here [Britain] to believe in some
change of Communist heart” :
“The British, American and
French representatives held
nearly 400 meetings with the
Russians in the endeavor to
conclude the treaty with
Austria. At the last attempt the
Allies gave way on every out-
standing point, but still the
Russians would not conclude
and clear out. They wanted to
keep their troops as far west-
ward as possible.
“But the Communists had an
even more overmastering desire.
For four years they have
strained every nerve to wreck the
unity of Western Europe, so that
they may more easily destroy
us. The Paris Agreements were
a heavy defeat for them.
“Now the Kremlin has simply
decided to reverse its obstruc-
tion in Austria in another
manoeuvre to prevent Western
Germany from being aligned
with the West. Austria, they
proclaim, can be evacuated and
reunited if it is completely
neutralised.
“So can Germany—and a
neutralised Germany would be
at Russia’s mercy; the prime
objective of Soviet foreign
policy. Thus Russia would control
Europe, including Britain.
“This Soviet trick, so far from
betokening any change of heart,
shows clearly that Soviet inten-
tions are entirely unchanged.”
♦ *' ' m
Other typical findings:
“New York Times" editorial
comment: “The Moscow agree-
ment pledges Austria not to join
any military alliances or permit
military bases on her territory
and to pursue a policy of inde-
pendence in regard to all States.
This means no new Anschluss to
Germany, already prohibited in
the treaty-draft. It also means
that the Soviets translate ‘inde-
pendence’ as neutrality and
enjoin Austria from joining the
Western European Union, the
North Atlantic Alliance or the
Balkan Alliances, or any other
‘military grouping.’ ,
“In return for these advantages
the Soviets undertake to with-
draw their troops by the end of
this year, to return to Austria all
the properties they have seized,
including the oilfields and
refineries, and to relK*;e all
Austrian prisoners they still
hold, but only on payment of
another $150,000,000. Though
the Soviets have already bled
Austria of more than $1250
million, not to speak of the
oppression and pillage com-
mitted with impunity by the
Soviet troops, the Austrians are
willing to pay the additional
ransom to get rid of the Soviet
incubus. In this effort they
deserve the sympathy and aid of
the Western nations.”
The same: “As far as the
Western Powers are concerned
such a treaty could have been
signed at any time during the
past 10 years, and the only
Power which prevented this was
Soviet Russia, which, in over
300 meetings, advanced one
pretext after another to delay
agreement while it bled Austria
of a large share of her wealth.
These pretexts, raising succes-
sively the issues of the German
assets, of Trieste, of a German
peace treaty, and finally of the
Paris pacts, have now been
dropped.”
m' * *
C. L. Sulzberger, in “N. Y.
Times”: “It is precisely because
of those [Paris] agreements that
Austria will finally receive inde-
pendence. When Moscow saw
it could no longer block ratifica-
tion of the Paris accords it sought
to prevent their implementation.
The first expression of this tactic
is the Austrian peace. For it is
hoped by the Russians that the
example of unification and
freedom in the Danube Valley
in exchange for a promise of
neutrality will appeal so
dramatically to West Germany
that it will never take the neces-
sary steps to rearm. Thus
Germany would be in Nato but
not of it.”
• * •
London ‘‘Daily Mail” editorial
comment: “Of course it is a
trick. But it is one the Russians
could have played any time since
the war. They have not done so
because there was no need. Now
there is. Suddenly they hand
Austria everything on a plate.
Why? Not because they have
turned meek and mild and gentle,
but because Germany is to be
rearfned and included in the
Western Alliance.
“This has so terrified the
Russians that they have tried
every device to call it off. The
Austrian agreement is intended
to induce the Germans to become
neutral, too. It will not succeed.
But the point is that the West
have forced this line of action.
By standing firm-, by insisting—
against delay, disappointment
and Bevanite folly that
Germany must be rearmed, we
have compelled the Russians to
do the decent thing by Austria.”
* * a
Walter Lippman, in New York
“Herald Tribune”: “The effect
in Germany was no doubt an
important reason for the
decision. Bub was it a sufficient
reason? It may be a wild guess,
though I do not think it is, that
the Kremlin has decided for
appeasement in Europe in order
to secure the Soviet rear in case
of war in East Asia.
“The threat of American
deterrent power against the
Soviet Union can in fact be
exercised only from Europe—
only, moreover, with the willing
collaboration of the Western
European democracies. What
could be more logical, what
could be more characteristically
Russian —whether Tsarist or
Communist —than to do a great
act of appeasement in Europe in
order to close the door to Euro-
pean intervention in case of an
East Asian war?”
* * *
Donald McLachlan, in London
“Daily Telegraph” 1 : “Mr.
Molotov has lost little. His
troops move back 50 miles across
good tank-country to the terri-
tory of satellite allies; ours
climb back a long way over the
Alps. He has made economic
concessions which are important
for Austria but only marginal
for Russia.' He can balance the
kudos won in Western Germany
against the speculation caused in
captive Eastern Europe. He has
given the Opposition parties of
the West a whippy stick to beat
—New York “Herald Tribune”
IT’S A VERY RARE SPECIMEN
their Governments with. The
moral is clear: progress over
Germany will be bought,, only at
a stiff price.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“At any time during the past
decade Russia could have granted
Austria her freedom. She has
not done so because the Occupa-
tion gave her a pretext to keep
troops in her East European
satellites ‘guarding lines of com-
munication.’ The recent forma-
tion of an ‘Eastern Nato,’
allegedly to counter the threat
of West. German militarism, has
now replaced this pretext.”
• * *
London “New Statesman":
“There is something desperately
wrong with an Anglo-American
policy which is so obviously
embarrassed when the Kremlin
behaves reasonably and does
precisely what we have asked it
to do. The fact is that, since
1950, we have come to rely on
Russian intransigence and com-
mitted ourselves to cold-war
policies in Europe which were
bound to collapse unless that
intransigence continued. Now
Mr. Molotov has decided not to
oblige us any further. There is
consternation jn all the Western
capitals as the realisation dawns
that the walls of Nato could fall
flat as soon as the Russian
trumpet sounds a peaceful note.”
* • »
London “E c o n o mi s t” :
“German public opinion is
fascinated by the prospect of
Austria regaining its freedom and
getting rid of the Red Army.
The Russians have carefully
made it appear that the way to
obtain such prizes is to make
pilgrimage to Moscow, and that
sight, too, is not lost on the
Germans. ‘Pravda’ and other
Soviet organs have laid out a
simple, engaging pattern:
Austria should follow Switzer-
land along the path of comfort-
able neutrality, and Germany
should follow Austria. The
German Social-Democrats have
lost no time in leaping to the
conclusion they were meant to
reach. Their spokesmen attribute
Austria’s success to the fact that
it had not bound itself to the
West, and it is further argued
that Austria has shown the
impossibility of securing both
national reunion and allies.
“Yet a coach-and-four can be
driven through the kind of facile
reasoning evoked in Germany.
The simple historical record
reveals that the encouraging
terms now offered to Austria are
the product not of an Austrian
refusal to attach itself to the
West, but German
decision to do so. No hint of
such a pond offer was held out
bv the Russ ans until they
me Kusslans unul me^
became resigned to the Parlia-
mentary ratification of the Paris
agreements. Indeed, if Austria
now wins its freedom, posterity
may record that as the first fruit
of the agreements.”
The same: “The cases of
Austria and Germany, super-
ficially so alike, are in essence
utterly different —as the Austrian
Social-Democrats have been
quick to point out to their West
German counterparts. In terms
of the crudest Realpolitik, a small
country like Austria can be


Only Genuine
EB
GO
CD
GO
CD
true stamina and staying power of your
thoroughbred INTERNATIONAL truck!
ET true power from your thoroughbred
International truck by replacing worn
or damaged parts with only genuine I H
parts. Genuine I H parts fit better and last
longer because they’re the same as the
original! Worn parts waste power, so get
the performance of your International truck
checked regularly. Your local I H dealer is
a truck specialist he is ready to restore
the original stamina and staying power of
your thoroughbred International truck. He
gives specialised I H service and uses only
genuine I H parts. Make an appointment
for your truck now!
They’re the some os
the QM6IHAU
p-tcT
made s * ec y°“ ;
truck- That's why genuine
| H parts 9 ive i ust “
a „d trouble-free service as
the original.
There's an INTERNATIONAL for every job /
MODEL AR-110
MODEL AR-160
■
-Btf
1
p
MODEL AR-130
MODEL AR-162
There's also a line of heavy-duty imported:
International models. Call, phone or write
your International Branch or dealer about
the right truck for your job.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
INTERNATIONAL
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
TRUCKS
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. WORKS; DANDENONG AND GEELONG, VICTORIA.
\ FMTSB9-36
‘carried’ by a strong and united
West; although disarmed and
helpless under the shadow of
totalitarian power, it can hope
to maintain its democratic life
because stronger democracies
have an obvious interest that it
should do so.
“But Germany is too big a
weight for the West to carry in
the same way ; and if Germany
became a power vacuum, how
could the West support even the
smaller neighboring demo-
cracies? It is not surprising that
Austrian voices «hould now be
raised begging the West Germans
not to follow Austria’s example.”
Russia and U.N.?
As against those who hold that
Russia’s performances at ths
United Nations have a definite
propaganda value to the Allied
Powers, David Lawrence, editor
of “U.S. News and World
Report,” puts the case for
expulsion oif the Soviet and
suggests the procedure by which
this might be accomplished:
“Much of the trouble in which
the free Governments of the
world find themselves today is
due to a failure to steer by the
compass of moral principle.
Governments that appease the
aggressor go from the frying-
pan into the fire as they build up
complications for themselves by
their successive retreats.
“The indictment was summed-
up succinctly by [U.S.] Secretary
of State Dulles when he said:
‘The United Nations Charter of
1945 binds sixty nations to
refrain in their international
relations from the threat or use
of force. But there has been
armed aggression in Korea
which was promoted by Soviet
Russia, and later Communist
China was found guilty of armed
aggression there.’
“The world for some time has
known about the repeated viola-
tions of the U.N. Charter by the
Soviet Union. The principal
evidence was furnished by its
own representative, who publicly
boasted to the U.N. in March,
1953, that the Soviet Union had
supplied armaments to the Red
China Government throughout
the Korean war. In that war
more than 33,500 American boys
were killed and 103,000
wounded.
“The Soviet Union, moreover,
gave military assistance to Red
China, notwithstanding the fact
that in February, 1951, the
Peiping Government was
formally declared by resolution
of the U.N. to be an ‘aggressor.’
The Moscow Government
ignored the U.N. warning that all
members should refrain from
rendering assistance to the
aggressor.
“The act of aggression is even
more flagrant because it has been
directed against the armed forces
of the United Nations itself. '
“The United Nations is still
in a state of war with both the
Communist Chinese and the
Communist Government of
North Korea. An armistice has
been signed, but no treaty of
peace has been consummated.
Nevertheless military aid to the
aggressors from Soviet Russia
continues. Russian-built MiG’s
are commonplace in the skies of
Korea.
“This is in the face of the
plain language of Article 2 of the
Charter, which provides: ‘All
members shall give the United
Nations every assistance in any
action it takes in accordance with
the present - Charter, and shall
refrain from giving assistance to
any State against which the
United Nations is taking preven-
tive or enforcement action.’
“The United Nations Charter
specifies exactly how offences of
a traitorous member shall be
dealt with by the other members.
Article 6 reads as follows: ‘A
member of the United Nations
which has persistently violated
the principles contained in the
present Charter may be expelled
from the organisation by the
General Assembly upon the
recommendation of the Security
Council.’
“It will be argued, of course,
that the Security Council would
not so recommend because the
Soviet Union could block such
a step by exercising her veto.
The fact is, however, that the
Soviet Union, being a party to
the dispute, would have no right
Ho vote at all. Article 27 of the
Charter covers that point by
declaring that decisions of the
Security Council shall be made
by an affirmative vote of seven
members, including the concur-
ring votes of the permanent
members, provided, however,
that ‘a party to a dispute shall
abstain from voting.’
“It has been contended that
the Soviet Union had obligations
under a treaty with China to
come to the assistance of that
country on the basis of an offen-
sive and defensive alliance. But
Article 103 says: ‘ln the event
of a conflict between the obliga-
tions of the members of the
United Nations under the present
Charter and their obligations
under any other international
agreement, their obligations
under the present Charter shall
prevail.’
“The Charter declares that
membership in the United
Nations shall be open to ‘peace-
loving States’ .willing to accept
the obligations of membership.
The Soviet Union, however, has
disregarded its obligations to the
U.N.
“By aiding Red China and
North Korea, which are at war
with the United Nations, the
Soviet Government has forfeited
its seat in the U.N. That seat
should be declared vacant by a
formal resolution. It would con-
stitute notification to / the people
of Soviet Russia that their Gov-
ernment had demonstrated its
incapacity to fulfill international
obligations, and had become a
menace to peace-loving nations.
The kind of Government a'
nation chooses is its own affair,
but only up to the point where
such a Government does not
become a threat to world peace.
“Some day, when a free Gov-
ernment arises in Russia, the seat
in the U.N,. declared- vacant
could’be awarded to such a new
Government. But today the
Moscow regime must be expelled
if the United Nations is to retain
the respect of the world as an
organisation obedient to law —
the words of its own Charter.”
The Commonwealth
In a joint-letter to London
“Daily Telegraph” Air-Chief-
Marshal Sir Hugh Lloyd and Sir
Clifford Heathcote-Smith, vice-
president and vice-chairman
respectively of the British Migra-
tion Council, ask: “How much
longer will our Governments
look on while the disintegration
cracks in the Commonwealth
grow and multiply?”:
“This time an ominous call
comes from our near kinsmen.
An Australian weekly, with the
phenomenal circulation of one-
million in a total population of
nine-million, puts the case for
hitching up With the United
States with brutal frankness,
thus :
“ ‘lt appears’inevitable that the
past close relationships between
Australia and England are drift-
ing apart. ...it is foolish to
suggest that we have any other
alternative but to stand solidly
alongside the United States, the
only nation in the world that can
give us the protection we wi
undoubtedly need in the future
“Of .course, a policy of rea
Commonwealth partnership tha
could be devised would both welc
us all together in growing
mutual strength and retain the
goodwill and support of the
United States, without the United
States playing the role of the
residuary legatee of a disintegrat-
ing Commonwealth.
“Such a policy could capture
the imagination of the millions
now fed on a largely exclusive
diet of parochial matters. Our
statesmen in their hearts one and
all know the Commonwealth
cannot be taken for granted. It
must be achieved, and the
achievement must be constantly
renewed.
“Should not the British Gov-
ernment invite the Australian
Government to examine together
how far in still closer partner-
ship they can plan ahead jointly
in the fields of finance, of
development, of migration and
of scientific technology, let
alone defence proper? Without
such organic partnerships the
Commonwealth’s days are
numbered.”
Various Voices
Sir Anthony Eden : “I believe
that the sensational in diplomacy
is dangerous and frequently
wrong. Diplomacy is a plodding
art. One must work hard at it
and persevere, and often, just
when success seems most remote,
a sudden break of fortune can
transform the project.”
Dr. Jamali {lraki delegate to
Bandoeng) “Today the Com-
munist world has subject races
in Asia and Eastern Europe on
a much larger scale than the
colonial Powers. Under the
old form of colonialism some
form of opposition was allowed,
but under Communist domina-
tion no such cries are permitted
to be heard. Communism is a
new type of colonialism devoted
to conquest and domination.”
Mr. A ttlee: “Coexistence is
better than war. lam quite sure
if you attack China you will
only more and more draw the
people to the [Communist] re-
gime. If you attack China by
trying to draw a sanitary cor-
ridor around her you will drive
her into the arms of Russia.”
Sir John Kotelawala (Premier
of Ceylon ); “If we [delegates to
Bandoeng] are united in our
opposition to colonialism, should
it not be our duty openly to de-
clare our opposition to Soviet
colonialism, as much as to
Western imperialism?”
Mr. Hoover: “The United
Nations is beset by the same
forces that succeeded in destroy-
ing the League of Nations. But
the United Nations has shown
more strength. It has hung to-
gether more cohesively, and it
has made more direct accom-
plishments.”
U.S. Democrat Senator
George ( chairman, U.S. Foreign
Relations Committee ): “It never
has and never will be appease-
ment for any strong Power to
say that we are willing to sit
down and talk about the prob-
lems that concern you and con-
cern the world.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Compulsory Blood-tests
“M.F.D.” is astray concerning blood-
tests for alcohol. Having made some
study of the matter, I am all in favor of
them. But there are inaccuracies in the
case quoted by “M.F.D.”
First, if the driver of the car had had
two beers four hours previously, and
only two, there would not have been any
alcohol left in his blood at all. It takes
from an hour-and-a-half to two hours
for alcohol to be fully absorbed into the
blood, and once it is so absorbed it begins
to be eliminated by oxidisation. That
elimination takes place at the standard
rate of 0.17 per cent, per hour.
Two middies will produce a concen-
tration of .034 per cent, in the blood at,
say, the two-hour limit, and that concen-
tration will be entirely eliminated in two
hours. Therefore, if the driver had had
drinks four hours before his arrest, he
must have had at least five middies in
quick .time when he had the drinks.
Conversely, if his test showed .055 per
cent, alcohol in his blood, he must have
had at least three middies at not more
than two hours prior to arrest, and in
quick time, too —and that is assuming
that the blood-test was made immediately
on arrest, which is unlikely. If it was
made an hour later, he must have had at
least four middies about two hours prior
to arrest, or a greater quantity over a
longer period.
And I doubt if any analyst would opine
that .055 per cent, would have entirely
no effect. I have seen persons certainly
under the influence after two middies,
and that gives a concentration of .034 per
cent. only.
Incidentally, a concentration of .05 per
cent, of alcohol in the blood is sufficient
in the Scandinavian countries and in
some American States to disqualify a
driver from driving for all time! To say
that it has “entirely no effect” is ridiculous.
Probably the best-known authority on the
subject in N. S. Wales defines “under the
influence” as being a “departure from nor-
mal behavior due to alcohol.” And the
concentration is determined by milli-
grammes in millilitres, not millimetres.
I agree that the smell of alcohol will
persist for some hours, even after one
drink, and the intensity of the odor
depends on the type of liquor consumed.
In estimating the number of drinks taken
(and this can be done exactly, given com-
mencing and finishing times of drinking)
from the percentage of alcohol in the
blood, it is interesting to note that one
middy equals one measured nip of
whisky, rum or gin, or about 2\oz. of
fortified wine. Each contains approxi-
“ Okay — let's go!"
mately half-an-ounce of pure alcohol.
Proof spirit contains about 80 per cent,
pure alcohol, so that a drink which con-
tains 60 per cent, proof spirit has about
48 per cent, of pure alcohol in it. This
leads to confusion in terms: e.g., N. S.
Wales beer contains about 7 per cent,
proof spirit; that is roughly per cent,
pure alcohol. ,
I’d say “M.F.D.’s” driver was lucky.
—Macropus (N.S.W.).
Society and Religion
Too many of us seem to consider that
our schools give sufficient and satisfactory
religious instruction, although such in-
struction consists of only a short his-
torical discussion for about an hour a
week. The present reticence to discuss
anything “controversial” connected with
religion is one certain way of destroying
any benefit that can be obtained from it.
There is a tendency for toleration to
shade into indifference.
• This is one problem in which we can-
not safely segregate the religious from the
secular sphere. The values which our
community cherishes are based to a con-
siderable extent on religious doctrines.
If we wish to preserve those values we
should be prepared to explain their basis
—including their religious basis. The
problem of juvenile delinquency is ex-
plainable to some extent by our failure to
convince the younger generation that we
are right in holding certain values. Pro-
bably in some cases we are wrong, but
we should not shrink from presenting our
case.
Education should not cease when a
child becomes a competent typewriter and
adding-machine. If it does, then we should
not condemn our children for activities
which we regard as anti-social. They do
not even comprehend, let alone agree
with, our basic assumptions.—MacD.
(Vic.).
Opera and Ballet
Opera’s troubles in Australia stem from
people’s lack of knowledge of opera itself,
the various operas and their composers.
The reason for that is bad public-relations
by the opera companies and their casts.
I remember well, as a cadet-reporter in
the 'thirties, meeting Edouard Borovan-
sky, very new to this country and very
keen to remain here, but admitting: “I
will not do any good until Australia
learns "more about ballet, as they have in
America.”
S 6, with his equally capable wife, he
set off to teach and give Australia ballet.
No one will say that he has not suc-
ceeded. His success-story' is an inspira-
tion. How did he achieve it? He worked
hard, but he worked to a plan that has
paid him and Australian theatre handsome
dividends.
First he started a school for teaching
ballet, the story of ballet and the im-
portance of the corps de ballet. Gradu-
ally, as his school and the interest grew,
he put on his first ballet, very “small-
time” when compared with his present
ballet, but nevertheless a ballet which at
least paid its way —although the dancers
did their own decor and made their own
costumes, because they, like Boro., were
keen to give ballet a new lift.
Then, as the performances became more
regular, Boro, started lecturing on ballet
to a group of public organisations as
varied as the ballets he taught. He broke-
down the “sissy” stigma against ballet,
spoke of its development, of the debt the
world of ballet owed to 19th century
Russia and how, with a little knowledge,
more and more people could love the
ballet.
As the public rallied behind him he
began his campaign to “sell” ballet to his
followers by telling them all he could in
the programme. I have collected most of
these, and it is a pleasure to read the
wealth of information he has packed into
them.
That, in brief, is how Borovansky
climbed the ladder of success. There were
plenty of rungs missing, but he’s right
on top now, with a handful of overseas-
stars to pass on the latest trends in ballet
to his Australian company. At present
Boro, and his ballet are in New Zealand.
He wants to go further afield —to Asia,
the Continent and even America. He’s
confident he will succeed.
That has all happened in a brief 20
years. It could happen in half the time
with operp. if this same line were followed.
“'Watch my heat , and try and keep time together!”
Opera in America was at a very low ebb
until some prominent citizens, like David
Sarnoff (chairman of the Radio Corpora-
tion of America) and a few of his friends,
backed it and “sold” it to the people.
It’s rivalling ballet today, and the pair are
giving the cinema as good a go for its
money as TV. — Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Centralisation in Queensland
The simple and hard truth, Clem Lack
(B. 4/5/ ’55), is that most State’ Govern-
ments in the last 20 to 30 years have done
precious little about the problem of cen-
tralisation. As a consequence, the great
bulk of Australia’s population has been
centred in and around the large cities
and towns.
No one would contend that centrali-
sation of population in a young country
like Australia, and in this A-bomb and
H-bomb age, is wise. City people are
becoming less and less aware of the
existence of country people; State legis-
lators, anxious about their political safety,
deliberately design legislation to catch
the city-vote—the 40-hour-week ‘Was an
example. The development of outback
and country areas is falling behind, and
the number of city-dwellers dependent on
country people for their food is alarming.
Save for wool, not one other Australian
primary product can hold its own com-
petitively in world markets. This is not
necessarily the fault of the farmer;
rather is it the result of the producer
having to contend with high costs of
machinery and equipment, produced for
the most part under a 40-hour-week.
Centralisation of population, with its
attendant evils, measurably contributes to
the topsy-turvy cost-structure now under-
mining Australia’s economy.
The argument that centralisation can
destroy the economic equilibrium and
moral strength of a nation may seem odd
to many people. But history has it other-
wise.
Good transport and good educational
facilities can be incentives to people to
get away from the large cities and towns.
Queensland has one of the worst trans-
port-systems of any State in the Com-
monwealth. Save for the Mt. Morgan
deviation and the Callide rail-link (built
for political purposes, and together
amounting to less than 16 miles), not one
mile of railway has been built in Queens-
land in the last 23 years. Indeed, 72
miles of railway are to be closed.
Royal commissions in 1920 and 1939
recommended the building of the Charle-
ville-Blackall railway-link, yet nothing has
been done. Queensland roads are a
scandal. Horror-stretches in car-relia-
bility trials are over what is described as
a “main road.” Road-construction goes
on at a snail’s pace. Last year the Main
Roads’ Commission had nearly £\\ mil-
lion surplus, while urgent road-works
were ignored.
The Queensland education-system is a
sorry set-up. Teaching-methods and
school-accommodation are plainly inade-
quate and antiquated. Queensland school-
teachers are poorly paid and badly
treated. The teaching profession in
Queensland is losing its professional
status and character. The Commonwealth
Grants Commission’s 1954 report revealed
that Queensland spends less per head of
population on education than any other
State. The position is:
Qld. . . . £4 9s. 7d. N.S.W. .£6 Is. 2d
Vic. ... £5 Is. Bd. S.A. . .£5 7s. 4d,
W.A. . .£6 12s. 7d. TaS. . .£6 7s. 6d
Queensland is potentially the richest
State in Australia, but its potential will
never be properly realised under Labor.
What attempts have been made in
Queensland at decentralisation are of little
account when compared with what is so
desperately needed. —D. J. K. (Q.).
Lawrence of Arabia
I can’t see how “L.R.M.H.” (B.
4/5/’55) decides that most of my criticism
of T. E. Lawrence appears in, and is
rebutted in, Seven Pillars of Wisdom.
That literary epic is the last place in
which to search for information as to
the real character of its author, and even
the critically and pertinently annotated
French (1936) edition fails in that respect.
In some instances, “L.R.M.H.” seems
to have misinterpreted my remarks com-
pletely. For instance, my objection to
Lawrence’s pose as a Prince of Mecca
was not to the wearing of ordinary Arab
clothing. In the desert it is far more com-
fortable than Western tropical kit, and in
many parts of outback Arabia, even in
peace-time, its inconspicuousness averts
the unpleasant experience of being used
as a target by the occasional errant
bedouin.
Arab etiquette demanded that Feisal’s
gift to Lawrence should be of the best,
but I am certain even that romantic
chief did not anticipate that the
fine silken raiment would be worn,
day-in, day-out, with all the trap-
pings of a Prince of Mecca, which
normally would be reserved to the
direct descendants of the Prophet or his
immediate entourage. To devout and
educated Muslims such garb used by an
infidel (which Lawrence was in their eyes)
caused, at least, disgust.
To Lawrence himself it was merely un-
adulterated'theatre, but, unfortunately, the
dressing-up was continued after Akaba
before an audience largely unfamiliar with'
Lawrence’s histrionics.
Allenby described Lawrence’s work as
“of nuisance value in annoying the Turks,
but of little help to me” ; and any efficient
sapper would agree that the railway-
demolitions, as chronicled in Seven Pillars,
were as amateurish as any work which
has ever found a place in history.
. The term “unlimited funds” was cor-
rectly used in my letter —more gold was
delivered than could effectively be distri-
buted among the relatively small com-
pany attached to Lawrence. That pro-
bably explains the reason for the astound-
ing cascade of sovereigns which descended
on the Arab hordes (many of whom got
on to the bandwagon after any risk of
serious oppositon was over) between
Akaba and the theatrical entry into
Damascus. — Abdul Assiz (N.S.V.).


Established 1868
Contractors to Govtrnment, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3ACKSOM
OSUI I JVApf. y
Vj'
TRADE
MARA
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
TTRAT) OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
carton Manufacturers
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Ausfralian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 2/-
Yearly 22/6
3 Z
as.
If
& £
J
Powered, sized, equipped &
priced for versatile work
It’s right—it’s FARM-RIGHT!
With more farm-right features than any other tractor, Fordson Major is unequalled for all-
purpose capacity and all-job economy. The latest overhead valve, low-friction engines
deliver much more power, use less fuel and work longer . . . 6-speed transmission . . . “touch-
control” hydraulics . . . 3-point linkage . . . range of “Crown” and matched implements and
equipment, and many other advances result in savings of time, labour, and money. See your
Fordson Dealer, he will show you, feature by feature, why Fordson 1
is farm-right for you.
TWO
kerosene model
£9lB
with pneumatic tyres
DIESEL model
*1077
with pneumatic tyrps
Optional equipment —
Hydraulic lift and 3-point linkage only £76.
FM26A-4Q
Your Fordson Dealer will supply further details •
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 64 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
Booked Seats on Trains
I’recently asked at a N.S.W. country
railway-station for a seat to be reserved
for me on the Flyer from Sydney to New-
castle on a particular date, at the same
time tendering the money for the reser-
vation and my ticket from Sydney to
Newcastle.
I was asked for my ticket between the
station I was at and Sydney, the official
explaining that I would have to get to
Sydney somehow to take the train to
Newcastle! He assumed I intended
travelling by train and, if I weren’t, he
couldn’t do anything for me about a
booked seat.
I sdid a friend was taking me to Sydney
by car on the day I intended to travel to
Newcastle, but to make sure of a seat I
wished to book on the Flyer well ahead.
The official replied, that he was sorry, but
“regulations were regulations,” and unless
I could produce a ticket to Sydney or was
willing to buy one on the spot, he couldn’t
help me.
The stationmaster was sympathetic and
passed me on to another official, who told
me the Railway Department looked coldly
on my proposal to travel to Sydney by
car before getting aboard the Flyer. If
I agreed to travel by train instead, or at
least buy a rail-ticket to Sydney and then
travel by car if I wished, he would be
happy to help me. Finally, after a good
deal of argle-bargle, he agreed, as an act
of grace, to make the booking this time,
and I went away pleased, but puzzled over
the department’s conception of public
service.
Perhaps, I thought, country railway-
officials weren’t up-to-date in Mr.
Winsor’s new “streamlined service,” so
when passing through Sydney I stated my
case to the inquiry-officer on Central-
station. He assured me the country
officials were correct, and was horrified
when I told him that I had persuaded them
to make the Sydney-to-Newcastle booking
for me. I still feel that a would-be train-
traveller should be able to book a seat
from Sydney to any other point in the
State at his local station, irrespective of
how he may intend to travel to Sydney. —
M.F.D. (N.S.W.).
Housing the People
In the latest boilover on the subject of
Melbourne’s No. 1 slum, Camp Pell,
politicians vied with each other to pro-
mise speedy extinction of this relic of the
earlier post-war housing problems.
The public also joining in the barney, but
so far nobody has pointed out the obvious
fact that the State has attempted an im-
possible task in endeavoring to shoulder
the burden of housing for the community
in general.
Camp Pell was established at the end
of World War II by the erection of Army-
huts on city parklands to provide tem-
porary accommodation for the homeless.
In 1947 it had 3000 inhabitants; there
are still 3000, in spite of firm promises
about every six months that the place
would be evacuated within a year.
“Camp” is a misnomer. Life in Army-
tents, under military-control, would be
comparative paradise to the conditions
prevailing there. The inhabitants have
been permitted to do as they please with
the result that most of the huts, equipment
and facilities have been damaged, crime
and disease have been commonplace, and
existence has been made a misery for the
proportion of decent families living there.
Obviously, so long as the State offers
accommodation, even of a wretched type,
for an insignificant rent there will always
be people who will accept it rather' than
make any effort to help themselves.
There is no valid reason why the State
should provide housing, any more than
it should provide food, clothing or other
necessities, except for those who are
absolutely incapable of making any pro-
vision for themselves.
The sooner the authorities adopt that
view the better. They are only making
difficulties for themselves which will in-
crease so long as housing is regarded as
an essential function of the State. Hous-
ing for the aged, the afflicted, the destitute,
yes; for the loafers, the criminals and
the spineless creatures who accept State
aid as a right—no!— Wusslean (Vic.).
“Keep Costs Down”'
Victorian Minister for Agriculture
Stoneham said lately that farmers “must
keep costs down” in an effort to over-
come the problem of this country’s being
priced out of markets overseas.
Doesn’t the Minister know that most
costs are well beyond control of the
cocky? Customs-duties, rail-freights,
taxes of different sorts and a hundred and
one other things all contribute to produc-
tion-costs. And not the least item is high
wages.
Does Mr. Stoneham, as a Labqr man,
propose that wages should be reduced,
or that his Government should reduce
freights? Or has he any useful ideas
about reducing the colossal cost of Gov-
ernment. Would he be prepared to take
a cut in salary?
Fruit-growing in the irrigation-areas is
in a deplorable financial position (wages
have a lot to do with that), and, with
competition from countries such as, South
Africa, Greece, Italy, Spain and Palestine,
seems to be headed down the drain.
What is Mr. Stoneham’s suggested remedy
there? — Ceg (Vic.).
What of Uranium?
Before too much money is invested in
uranium-mines, shouldn’t the Federal
Government make a clear statement on
the probable demand for the stuff during
the next 10 years?
An official of the U.S. Atomic Energy
Commission' has said that America has
adequate supplies and that big deposits
are likely to be found in western U.S.A.
Does this mean the overseas market for
Australian uranium is likely to disappear,
or that the market will be Britain and
some other countries instead of primarily
the U.S.? Has any proper estimate been
made of the amounts which Australia
could profitably employ as soon as
facilities are available, and of the amounts
which may be needed as opportunity
expands, especially in areas remote from
other sources of power?
Why is Australia lagging behind
Britain in making use of atomic energy
for industrial purposes? These questions
should be answered in the interests of
all. — Mugga Way (A.C.T.).


(Q
“Since we bought THE WORLD’S
FINEST COOKER we have a
WONDERFUL HOT WATER SUPPLY!”
AGA
Re yd. Trade Mark
I
aa mm
/L
&
4b <s*' v
of coke now in
ample supply.
®</
4*4
* O*
***.
*0
'f/y
4 9<>
"ist t
*S
"tty
H'Or/
'*»£
ft*
I
">al
“It not only cooks the most delicious
meals effortlessly, but it supplies all the
hot water we require . . . direct to our
kitchen, laundry and bathroom.”
“And that’s not all! Its fuel consumption
is incredibly low ... in fact, it’s guaran-
teed never to exceed 5 tons of coke per
year.
“Our AGA has two hot-plates and two
ovens, one oven for roasting and baking,
and the other for simmering. It can cook
a meal quite by itself, and creates no
fumes, smoke or soot.
“Believe it or not, AGA even helps to
‘air-condition’ our kitchen."
“There were no extras when we purchased
our AGA. Levin & Co.’s expert installed
and demonstrated the cooker. They also
supplied a wonderful set of utensils and
all the flue materials, which were in-
cluded in the price. AGA to me has been
a wonderful investment.”
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in New Zealand in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for
ASA Cooker and Bendix Home Washer
POST TO-DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
N. S. WALES: 51-57 Goulhurn St., Sydney
VICTORIA: 432 Bourke St., Melbourne
Q’L AND: Cnr. Margaret & Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: 113 Grenfell St., Adelaide
T’MANIA; A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart
West Aust. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
Sole AGA Agents for W.A.
Learn ALL the facts
NAME _
about AGA, including
the details of other ADDRESS
outstanding models.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY
HOE
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particulars
and for free demonstrations of ttie
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd .
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land') Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOX."
MESQUITE
VISITING U.S. botanist Pro-
fessor W. S. Phillips recently
warned the W.A. Pastoralists’
Association of the danger of the
introduced mesquite-tree becom-
ing a pest.
The tree has been growing in
this country for many years. As
far back as 1877 N.S.W. Govern-
ment departments were experi-
menting with seeds from the
Arizona mesquites. Seeds of
the Mexican variety were
imported by the Victorian
Forests Department in 1916.
These were obtained from. the
U.S. Department of Agriculture
in Hawaii, where the tree
flourishes.
By 1917 the mesquite was
firmly established in a number
of pastoral areas throughout
south-west Queensland, whefe
advantage was taken of its
ability to thrive in hot, arid
areas.
The tree has been reported as
a success when introduced into
other countries, notably India,
South Africa and the Hawaiian
Islands. But these reports may
well have been a little prema-
ture, for, as Professor Phillips
points out, the tree may show
no tendency to spread danger-
ously for many years until a
succession of exceptionally
favorable seasons set it on the
rampage.
A South African drought-
investigation commission
reported that the tree furnished
a valuable fodder relished by
cattle, horses, sheep and pigs.
The commission recommended
planting it in dry areas where
poor soil or eroded ground
would not support better crops.
In Hawaii the mesquite-bean
was found to keep stock alive,
and even fatten them, during
long periods of drought. The
yield was estimated at 100
bushels of beans per acre. The
tree prevented serious erosion
on previously treeless areas, and
yielded firewood and tan-bark,
while the blossom was found
valuable for its honey.
It is claimed that in Northern
Argentina the bean forms a
staple food for men as well as
stock.
There is no doubt that the
pod and bean of the mesquite
can be used as a fodder. Fed
in the form of meal, the beans
are said to be next in value to
barley. The pods, according to
botanist Von Mueller, contain
25 per cent, sugar, 14 per cent,
starch, 9 per cent, proteins, and
are comparatively rich in
potash, lime and phosphorus.
However, the opinion has
been expressed by many Aus-
tralian pastoralists that, as a
fodder-plant, the mesquite will
not bear comparison with miany
cereals or legumes; that as a
stand-by in time of drought it
does not remotely compare with
silage.
Preservation of the bean for
winter-feeding has been only
partly successful: mainly
because of weevil-attack.
The wood is of high calorific
value, is durable and very hard.
Fences made of this timber have
been known to stand in a perfect
state of preservation for more
than 50 years in southern Texas.
The high sugar-content of the
pods make them suitable for the
manufacture of alcohol and
vinegar.
In appearance, the tree is
most attractive. A fully-grown
specimen may attain a height of
60ft. to 70ft., and it certainly
has virtues *as an ornamental
shade-tree.
So, on the, surface, the mes-
quite seems a welcome migrant.
“ Please , Bill, don't force me t' break me resolution."
It provides material for stock-
feed, everlasting fences, fires,
home-brew, tannin and honey.
Little wonder, then, that it is
regarded by some as a blessing.
But there are also those who
regard it as a menace. And
these seem to be the people who
know most about it. Anyone
who has seen the impenetrable
thicket produced by mesquite
run riot, and the consequent
exclusion of all other vegetation
in the area, would agree with
Professor Phillips that it can
become a serious pest.
Professor Phillips didn’t think
any known method of control
was likely to be successful in
W.A.: apart from the possibility
of biological control. But
there’s a snag there; mesquite
is related to the acacias and an
insect capable of destroying the
pest might also wipe-out native
acacias.
So think twice before you
plant mesquite. Better still,
give some thought to native
trees that provide fodder in
times of drought: kurrajong,
red-ash, mulga and cattle-bush.
We know'how they behave.
Geep.
Conservation Costs
“S.” (B. 13/4/’55) has quoted
useful figures concerning the cost
of soil-conservation work by
contour-furrowing.
To go a step further, it would
be interesting to know what
exactly is meant by the item
“renovation” in his summary of
costs. If this refers to cultiva-
tion (or chiselling or ripping) on
the contour, it is quite probable
that control of run-off could be
achieved without the use of
contour-furrows at all —a saving
of £1 an acre plus a good deal
of time and labor.
We already have evidence that
relatively deep tillage on the
contour is effective in preventing
runroff and in holding the rain
where it falls, thus saving the
soil from erosion and preparing
it for pasture-improvement. The
work of P. A. Yeomans and his
“keyline”-plan are so well known
to your columns as to need no
further mention. In Victoria
also, the Soil Conservation
Authority is interested in this
method of holding the land. On
their demonstration-area at
Glenmore, near Bacchus Marsh,
one of the most seriously eroded
areas of this State, a hillside,
formerly sheet-eroded, which had
been treated by ripping on the
contour with a three-point-
linkage tiller, showed no
measurable run-off through the
heavy spring rains of 1954.
In association with the S. C.
Authority my own company has
demonstrated the value of this
method of conservation, using
crawler-tractors and deep-tillage
implements. Where the subsoil
has poor structure and is liable
to tunnel-erosion, spring-shank
cultivators spaced a foot apart
are used to about 6in. depth.
Pasture-establishment can follow
immediately, or the ground can
safely be left for later sowing.
On more stable soils, chjsels,
operating up to 18in. deep, can
be employed. In the U.S.A. sub-
soilers operating as deep as 2ft.
have been used successfully.
They are spaced so that the dome
of unbroken soil between the
chisel or subsoiler cuts is about
a foot wide at the surface.
The effect is the same as
contour-furrowing—a series of
small dams are provided which
hold rainwater in the shattered
but still unexposed soil on the
contour-lines. The water is held
below the surface, not on it, and
the chisel-cuts are spaced much
more closely than furrows
normally are —thus more water
is retained, and in such a way
that it cannot break through
weak points and cause further
erosion. Furthermore, you can
cultivate lightly or sod-seed to
establish pasture over the chisel-
cuts without destroying their
effectiveness.
These points—and the fact that
no obstacles to tractors,
machinery or stock are created —
appeal strongly to the landowner
who, until now, has had to put
up with machines being damaged
in the rough going, lambing-
ewes becoming cast in the
furrows, and, quite often, severe
new erosion following the break-
down of a system of furrows
under a heavy load of water
concentrated behind them.
When the slopes of a catch-
ment are thus made safe, such
other works as tunnel-destruc-
tion, building of diversion banks
and control and filling of gullies
can proceed with safety.
Trials with the contour-
ripping method are proceeding.
Given the success we anticipate
with run-off control, the “renova-
tion” item of your corres-
pondent’s balance-sheet will
represent the whole cost of
machine-operation, and at least
£1 an acre plus labor will be
saved in this most vital work.
J. E. Slee
(B.Ag.Sc.; Agricultural Con-
sultant, William Adams Tractors
Pty., Ltd.)
Parakelia
“Norque”: Saw a lot of
parakelia in sundry parts, but the
best was in the north-west of
S.A. A pigweed (bushman’s
description) like an open hand,
palm upwards, with fleshy
fingers; flower-stalk from the
centre, carrying a flower of
apricot-shade, toning into a
purplish tint.
A property westerly from
Pimba, on the Trans-line gets its
name of Purple Downs from the
color of the dominant parakelia;
most striking effect as the sun
goes down.
But parakelia’s life isn’t quite
so transitory as D. D. Mackinnon
(W.A.) suggests (B. 27/4/’55).
On Andamooka (west side of
Lake Torrens) surface-water
dried-up in a large paddock, so
the wethers were moved from
there to Adelaide markets. Top
price of 235.-odd—a great price
for those times.
Not less than 12 months later
we mustered another dozen or
so of the stragglers from the
same paddock, which was still
“dry.” One killed for rations
was as good mutton as could be
reared anywhere; just a small
spoonful of fluid in the bladder.
The fleece, although overgrown,
was remarkable.
The only source of moisture
was definitely parakelia. There
are not many other forms of
herbage, grass, etc., which will
maintain condition and fatten
stock, so- my vote still goes to
parakelia.
'Hopper Warning
“Millewa”: Great egglaying
activity by grasshoppers which
have damaged young crops in
northern Victoria this autumn
gives a warning of possible wide-
spread trouble later in the year.
In a recent leaflet the Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture advises that the ’hopper —


‘PHENOVIS’ —Brand of phenothiazine
fine
tWs’HKNOVLS"
FINE stuff this ‘PHENOVIS’ ... yes “fine” is the right word. No ready-
to-use worm drench on . sale in Australia contains phenothiazine more finely
ground than ‘PHENOVIS.’ For the treatment of gastro-intestinal worms in
livestock, there is nothing as good as ‘PHENOVIS,’ containing extremely fine
around phenothiazine particles.
ORDER
'PHENOVIS'
LIQUID or POWDER
from your supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF.AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
■PHE.34X.1168.
m
Soon You Will Hove
Your Opportunity
To Invest In
More Hoddon Rig Sires
Next month a particularly strong and uniform
team will represent Haddon Rig Stud at the
Sydney Ram Sales. These splendid rams
possess all the exceptional qualities that buyers
are accustomed to 1 expect from Australia’s
foremost Merino Stud, with its unrivalled
record of 73 years of consistently successful
breeding.
The 1955 Sales Team compares very favour-
ably with its predecessors, not excluding the
117 rams that secured top aggregate last year
—the FIFTEENTH successive Sales at which
this distinction has gone to Haddon Rig.
Drought and flood during the last twelve
months emphasise that Haddon Rig Sires are
sturdy, robust and adaptable to all conditions.
Five Special Stud Rams will be offered. The
leader is No. 137, sired by No. 70, one of
whose progeny brought 3000 guineas at the
1954 Sales. The balance of the team com-
prises 41 Stud Rams and 68 Selected Rams.
Outstandingly uniform in quality, all are
worthy representatives of Haddon Rig.
Whether you will be bidding in person or
through an agent, remember that Haddon Rig
Rams are an investment that is second to
none.
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Tel.: Warren, 74
or plague-locust can be
controlled by baiting or spraying.
Bran-baits, taken by young
'hoppers when they are 10 days
old, can be made by mixing
1101 b. of bran with Ulb. of 20
per cent. B.H.C. dust, or lOoz.
of 50 per cent. B.H.C. dust.
Before making a general distri-
bution have a small-scale trial-
baiting to be sure the ’hoppers
are feeding.
Spread the bait (dry) at 301 b.
an acre, or 601 b. (wet) an acre,
in front of the ’hoppers. If the
swarm is large, scatter bait right
through it. Better results on
dry ground, or in short grass,
than in good pasture.
But spraying is more con-
sistently effective than baiting,
and difference in costs isn’t
great. B.H.C. and aldrin are the
two principal spray-materials.
Lindane is also quite suitable.
Dieldrin, chlordane and toxa-
phene are also used against
’hoppers.
A knapsack spray-pump is
very effective in destroying
freshly hatched ’hoppers not old
enough to take the baits. Action
now will save a lot of trouble
later.
Neither B.H.C. nor aldrin is
highly poisonous, but either can
be absorbed through the skin
when in oil-solution. Therefore,
avoid contact between your skm
and the spray-concentrate. Also,
keep spray-materials away from
foodstuffs.
Honey Containers
“B-herd”: The 601 b. honey-
tin (4gal. can) is on the way-out.
It never has been satisfactory.
for one thing, its high price-
over five-bob now —and another,
its flimsy structure ; it lost shape,
concertinaed, and leaked honey
under the N.S.W.G.R.’s some-
times peculiar methods of hand-
ling freight.
The N.S.W- apiarists’ execu-
tive is now trying to have use
of the second-hand tin for pack-
ing prohibited by the Govern-
ment. Reason, risk of disease.
If this regulation is passed,
there’ll be a quick swing to either
sgal. drums made expressly for
honey-transit, three times or
more stronger (and, oddly, about
the same price as the unsatis-
factory tin) or a bigger swing to
the use of 44gal. drums.
Western Australian bee-
keepers, with their big crops, are
finding the 44’s the best for
honey-transit from field to
factory. In N.S.W., although
leading men in the game recom-
mend using 44’s, not much
interest has been shown by pro-
ducer or packer. The packer
says he can’t handle the weight
(about 6501 b.); the man in the
field says it puts his truck out of
use till the honey is delivered.
Under present conditions, the
60’s can be stored anywhere until
the time comes to transport them
to market; the 44’s, because of
their weight, must remain on the
truck and be filled there from
the extractor. But the 44’s are
almost indestructible; and, over
the years, they amount to free
packing for the producer; as
against the present levy of a
penny a pound.
Wool Lectures
“J.F.”: Last year’s special
lectures for woolbrokers and
woolbuyers, organised by the
Sydney School of Wool Tech-
nology, brought to light some
interesting material, which has
since been published. This year
the audience aimed at is some-
what wider —woolgrowers.
Lectures will be held at the
Wool Sale Room, Royal
Exchange, 21 Bridge-street, on
May 26 and 27, the Thursday
and Friday immediately prior to
Sydney Sheep Show. Fee for
the series, one-guinea. Applica-
tions (with money) should reach
the Registrar, University of
Technology, Kensington, not
later than Friday, May 20. For
further details, ring Professor
McMahon (FA8225-ext. 14).
Deficiencies in Citrus
“Cufeczn”: When the leaves
of citrus-trees become yellow in
the centre, diagnosis is mineral-
deficiency. The backyard-
orchardist may remedy this by
cutting up small pieces of
galvanised-iron and copper-wire
and placing them round the base
of the trees.
Rain, or irrigation, will dis-
solve enough minerals from the
metals to freshen the affected
trees. The galvanised-iron
supplies zinc and iron; enough
copper will dissolve from the
wire to be of distinct advantage.
Farm Hints
“W. 0.”: Location of water for
bees has an important bearing
on their safety. Long flights
increase the danger of their
being eaten by birds or other
insects, straying, being caught in
rain-squalls or trampled to death
by stock at the edges of watering-
places. If water isn’t reasonably
close to the hives, provide an
artificial supply.
“Ninety-nine”: Empty and
scour the pigs’ milk-drum regu-
larly—brownish curds that crust
inside and fall into the milk are
definitely harmful. Pig-manure
and waste bedding should be
ploughed under —not allowed to
lie in' heaps as breeding-places
for flies. Water-troughs should
be cleaned regularly, and fresh
water supplied daily.
“A.M.N.”: If you’re nof
strong on compiling records, one
way to remember the age-group
of dairy-cows is to name all
calves born in the one year with
names starting with the same
letter. Thus: 1955, Amy, Alice,
Ann. 1956, Bonnie, Barbara,
Beatrice ; and so on. All that is
necessary then is to remember
the year the letter represents.
“Dusty”: To keep mice out
of hessians on a dried-fruits
block, sprinkle a handful of
sulphur on each bundle of
hessian before rolling it up. An
old lOOOgal. tank makes a good
mice-proof, rain-proof store for
hessians and bags, says Jack
Bail, Mildura (Vic.), in “Mallee
Horticulture Digest.”
“M.”: For woolly-aphis,
spray in late winter with red-oil
emulsion, 1-in-20. Applied at
high pressure, the nozzle held
close to the cluster, this mixture
will kill the aphis, but won’t havq
any serious effect on the parasitic
wasp that preys on them. For
the small garden with only one
or two trees, try painting each
colony with methylated-spirit
after the leaves fall.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(8/5/’55)
The heavy rains at the close of April coincided with
a sunspot outbreak, which has the effect of intensifying
rainfalls. The sun is now clear of spots.
Further heavy rains are likely on the coast of N.S.W.
about the middle of the month and towards the close. of
May, and further flooding may occur. General rains
should fall in the rest of the State.
General rains should also fall-, in Victoria and South
Australia this month. Rainfall should become poor in
Queensland from June on, with little relief before November,
although the Main cycle indicates good rains on the Darling
Downs in June and July.
LENNOX WALKER.


lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON If PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESFNTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
WUMAM S I REF |, MELBOURNE, C ‘
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
' •
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £Z
Foreign .... £2/10/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
man was genuinely fitting him-
self for the fray. Larry, was too
busy attending to his business to
train, so this didn’t suit his book
at all.
“But,” protested the elderly
scribe, “I haven’t seen you do a
lap yet, Mr. Foley.”
“Lissen to me, d’ y’ see, it’s
dis way,” said Larry. “Every
night when the pub shuts I put
on sweaters and walk home four
miles. I’m feelin’ fine.”
“Go on,” said the scribe.
“Well, I feel like a walk myself.
I’ll walk with you tonight.”
That night Larry .and the
scribe set off at a brisk pace.
By the time they reached Pad-
dington Town Hall the old-’un's
tongue was hanging out and he
was knocking at the knees.
Foley now set off at a brisk
run. “Hey,” yelled the victim,
“what are you doing?”
“Lissen ;t’ me, d’ y’ see,”
replied Foley. “I always run the
rest of the way,” and off he went
again, while the puffed-out scribe
made back to, the city.
Foley returned and sat on the
Paddo Town Hall steps.
Presently his private cab drove
up, and mine host of the White
Horse entered and was driven
home.
Next morning a glowing
account of Foley’s spartan
devotion to training appeared in
the press.
Not long before Larry died
he, I and the late W. F. Corbett
embarked on a sentimental
journey. Our idea was to try to
find the spot on the banks of
either the George’s or Cook’s
River (I forget which) where the
ring had been pitched on that
memorable morning in 1869
when Larry whipped the Orange
champion, Sandy Ross.
Foley’s recollection was hazy,
and we tramped up and down in
fruitless search until we chanced
across an ancient fisherman
mending nets. Sure, he knew the
spot, and would guide usr to it.
Arrived, Bill Corbett and Larry
removed their hats and stood in
silence. To them it was holy
ground.
Forty years earlier that
secluded spot had been for Foley
a field of glory. The old pugilist
gazed on the ground where he
had fought the good fight. So
Wellington may have gazed on
the field of Waterloo had he
revisited it 40 years after.
We turned away. “A dour,
bitter man, Ross; game, too.
They had to drag him away,”
muttered Foley.
On our way to the boat our
ancient guide told us: “I saw the
fight. Sandy was a great man.
The Irisher won by v trickery.
The likes of him could never
have stood’up to our Sandy.”
“What became of Foley?’’
queried Corbett.
“I dunno for certain,” replied
the old-’un, “but I did hear as
he was hanged in ’Frisco, and if
he was, all I say is that hangin’
was too good for the villun.”
“No doubt it was, no doubt
it was,” said Foley gravely.
And so we left the old boy to
his nets.
Larry was a great frequenter
of secondhand-sales. He would
buy any old junk, but he invari-
ably turned it to profit.
Once I remember he bought
the late Sir Alfred Stephens’s
coach and pair. Evidently the
coachman was included in the
sale, for I was on the pavement
when Larry drove up in state and
tried to sell me the lot as it
stood. I declined, but he insisted
on my taking a trial drive round
the Domain. So off we went,
to the accompaniment of a loud
outburst of mirth from the boys.
At the time I couldn’t have
bought even the harness.
When we arrived back I
thanked Larry for the outing and
gave him the distressing informa-
tion about my finances. He
laughed. “Lissen t’ me, d’ y’ see,
I’ll sell it afore tomorrer.” And
he did.
Larry had a firm friend in the
Hon. E. W. O’Sullivan, Minister
of Works, and blossomed out as
a professional house-demolisher.
One of his jobs was the pulling
down of Her Majesty’s Theatre
after the “Ben Hur” fire, a blaze
almost as notable in its day as
Larry himself.
Probably his most notable
performance in that line was pull-
ing down Anthony Horderns’
after the fire which swept through
the huge place from end to end.
Larry, it is recorded, got together
f dk the job a team of Sydney’s
then plentiful pugs—a nice lot
for any misguided spectator to
pick on.
Larry Foley was the epitome
of a type of sporting man that
would seem to have vanished.
He started life as- a hod-carrier,
and in turn became a champion
prizefighter, famed publican and
successful businessman. He died
full of years and honor and
leff his charming family well pro-
vided for. Peace be to his manes.
then went round and climbed
into the driver’s seat. As the
bus pulled heavily back on to
the sand-track, he decided that
he’d call in at Joe’s home on the
way back and see if he’d help
him off with the meat. Having
decided that, he felt better.
TyrO sooner had they pulled up
outside the cool-room door
than Aileen came round the
corner of the butcher’s shop into
the glare of the overhead light.
“I was beginning to get
worried,” she said, obvious relief
in her voice. “I thought you’d
be back by six. What
happened?”
“It wasn’t ready.” Darkie was
impatient to get the meat off.
Joe was already tugging at the
nearest forequarter. He turned
to help him.
' “Don’t be too long. Tea’s
ready to dish up.”
He shook his head. “I won’t
have time. I’ve got to go back.
You go and have yours”—- He
nodded his head impatiently in
the direction of the house. His
tone was one he might have used
to five-year-old Phyl to dismiss
her when she became a nuisance.
Then, ignoring her, he and
Joe were awkwardly lugging the
quarter of beef through the
door of the cool-room.
Aileen stood there a moment,
uncertain, then walked up to the
house. When she opened the
door she couldn’t see Phyl. As
she turned she saw her still
hiding behind the door, her
finger to her lips, an air of
expectancy about her. She saw
the disappointment creep into
the little face as she said, slowly,
“It’s no good, Phyl . . . Daddy's
not coming up. You’d better
come'and have your tea.”
It was half an hour before
Darkie came up from the cool-
room. He turned on the tap over
the sink, and began to wash the
blood off his hands and fore-
arms. Aileen said, without very
much enthusiasm, “Are you
going to have something to eat
now?”
“I’ve ■ got to get Joe home.
He’s going out tonight.”
“He’ll be in fine condition to
go out if he’s anything like you.”
He looked down at his clothes.
Blood had stained his trousers
and shirt in a dozen places. “I
can’t help that,” he said shortly,
“I’ve got'to get more meat yet.”
“What’s that for? You don’t
usually”
He turned on her wearily.
‘‘l’ve got to go back— that’s all
that matters.”
“Why don’t you tell me to
mind my own business?” she
asked quietly, looking directly at
him.
He half opened his mouth as
though to speak, hesitated, and
then said, very levelly. “Aileen,
I don’t want to start a fight now.
I’ve got enough to worry about
without that. The meat’s waiting
out there, and there’s a man
staying with it till I get
there”
“What time will you be
back?”
“I don’t know. It might be
midnight” ,
He saw the look of surprise
on her face. “He’s probably still
doing the slaughtering”
He realised he had slipped
when she said, “In that case you
could have a cup of tea, at least.”
“I’m going back now.” He
turned and walked out of the.
kitchen.
. “Daddy.”
Aileen heard him mutter some-
thing impatiently as Phyl
clambered down from the chair
and ran after him. Then she
heard him run down the ramp
as Phyl came back, wide-eyed,
into the kitchen. Aileen bent
down, put her arms about her as
she suddenly burst out crying,
“I only wanted to kiss him good-
night.”
“Daddy’s got a lot of work to
do, darling . . . ” She was look-
ing over Phyl’s shoulder at the
table she had laid almost two
hours ag o, and the food she’d
be B un t 0 dish U P when she had
heard the welcome sound of the
ufflto ramtojl down the drive.
She didn t feel very hungry now.
She heard the sudden roar as
the motor started, and then, a
few seconds later, she heard the
utility pulling up the drive and
out on to the road. When they
were gone the house and its lone-
liness seemed to close in on her.
TT was half-past one when
A Darkie left the slaughter-yard,
They’d cleaned the mess up then,
buried the offal in the pit he’d
dug for the purpose a couple of
hundred yards away in the bush,
He didn’t throw the hides after
it. “Too risky,” said Harris,
when he mentioned it. “If they
start askin’ questions they might
want to dig that up. They can’t
tell one set of innards from
another, but hides are different.”
He’d hidden them instead in
bushes a quarter of a mile away.
“I’ll bury ’em later on when I
get time,” he said. Darkie
wondered if he would. He hoped
he wouldn’t be fool enough to
try to sell them, valuable as they
were. Knowing the avaricious
nature of the man he felt a little
uneasy as hd thought of it.
When he climbed into the
utility Harris was washing his
legs under the tap in the shed.
“You might be able to let us
have that dough next time y’
come down,” he said.
Darkie saw the light burning
when he was still half a mile
away from the butcher’s shop.
Aileen had probably left it on
to help combat the loneliness.
When he let the back of the
utility down and saw the pile
of meat waiting to be shifted, a
feeling of hopelessness took
hold of him. It would take at
least an hour of tugging and
dragging and lifting to get it on
to the hooks in the cool-room.
If he ever got it there.
He was standing there look-
ing at it, when Aileen came
round the comer of the butcher’s
shop. She looked sleepy; her
hair was untidy. She smiled
uncertainly as she came, and
stood at the back of the utility
and looked first at him and then
at the meat.
He looked at her without
speaking. Something of resent-
ment still burned in him, but the
sight of her standing there, sleep
in her eyes, disturbed him.
“Why didn’t you go to bed?”
She shook her head. “I didn’t
want to.”
“You never had to stay up for
me.”
“I know I didn’t. But I wanted
to,” she said, quite frankly.
He looked at her for a moment
without speaking. Then looked
down at the meat. “I’ve got to
get this off.”
“I’ll help you.”
He didn’t try to stop her. He
just couldn’t see how he’d ever
have managed on his own.
A FTERWARDS he hosed the
bus down, and then climbed
slowly up the ramp and went to
the bathroom for a cold shower.
Then, dressed in pyjamas, he felt
almost clean again. The smell,
the warm, sickly smell of the
slaughter-yard and the newly
killed beasts he couldn’t get rid
of. And there was a taste in his
mouth he couldn’t get rid of.
For a while after he got into
bed he thought of Harris. He
wondered what would happen
when Morrison couldn’t locate
the cattle. Then suddenly he
realised his tiredness, the aching
tiredness in his shoulders and
back and legs. He was asleep five
minutes after he lay down. But
all through the night he tossed
and turned, and sometimes
Aileen, wakened by his restless-
ness, heard him mumble some-
thing she could not understand,
She didn’t sleep for a long
time, but lay there, wide awake,
staring into the darkness,
wondering.
THE BEACHCOMBER
I have lit upon the old man’s secret, know
The error on his brow is like the error
Of the fragile wave whose mirror
After mirror crashing, builds yet its character. So
I know he likes the ocean beach best, will escape
Only on Sundays to the lee of the cape.
It is his converse with the breakers, playing ducks
And drakes with our conventions, make him somebody
Excusable: one man like a poet, shoddy
In morals, quarrelsome, who bucks
Society, and, for his sane rebuke,
Is allotted the spaceroom of the beach;
Respected there, given a friendly look
If they Can nail him; sought for his fish-tail speech.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


Available from all booksellers
POMPEY’S HEAD by HAMILTON BASSO
“THREE SUPERB NOVELS IN ONE . . .
A NOVEL OF SUSPENSE
NEVIL SHUTE
Requiem for a Wren
As Great a Story as Nevil Shute Has Ever Written
At All Booksellers - - - - 13/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
RONALD SEARLE
T0 ”82. , 355 M - SS^T' 8/9
These' three boohs feature mainly the doings of the bloodthirsty girls of St.
Trmwn’s , vnth sidelights on other subjects such ns fine arts and the writing public.
THE TERROR OF ST. TRINIAN’S (with
Timothy Shy) —The story of how love came
to St. Trinian’s 10/9 (post <d.)
DOWN WITH SKOOL and HO W TO BE
TOPP.— These masterpieces of co-operation by
Geoffrey Williams and Ronald Searle reveals,
in wicked spelling and magnificent cartoons,
what life is like at the boys’ school of St.
Custards. EACH 10/9 (post Id.)
SOULS IN TORMENT. —This book presents
all aspects of Searle’s cartoonist and comic
genius. A section deals with the Doom of
St. Trinian’s —the last appearance in book
form of the Searle schoolgirls. 15/6 (post 1/1)
You’ll find all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
reash Street, Sydney :: GG-G8 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
Cl.
'“Poetry and Science” is not even
poetry: —
Latest begotten of Lights
progeny,
Proton and Neutron have large
unfound kin
Awaiting birth; some stay name-
less heroes
Of stories not yet written, some-
stars in films —
Lie, celluloid unremembered,
packed in cans . . .
This is the only poem of Turner’s
given, when we might have had
“Silence,” or that lovely poem, “The
Seach for the Nightingale,” with its
memories of the Australia where he
was bom: —
Beside a stony, shallow stream I
sat
In a deep gully underneath a hill.
Lifting my head, I gazed upon a
world
Carved in the breathless heat as
in a gem,
And watched the paroquets green-
feathered fly
Through crystal vacancy, and
perch on trees
That glittered in a thin, blue, haze-
like dream.
And I ached then
To hear that song burst out upon
that scene,
Startling an earth where it had
never been.
Which makes one realise why the
late R. C. Bald wrote that Turner, had
lie stayed here, was “the one man who
might have given Australian poetry the
stimulus and tradition it needed.”
Apparently he was unaware of Kenneth
Slessor’s work.
As a Professor of English literature
in an Australian university, the antholo-
gist no doubt expects this book to be
used by Australian scholars and
students, and so it is right that he
should include some contemporary
Australian poets Kenneth Slessor,
Douglas Stewart, Judith Wright, David
Campbell; though one would have
expected to find in this group the
names of Robert D. Fitz Gerald and
Kenneth Mackenzie at least.
The Australian poets are included
as a part of English literature, just as
are the Irish and Scottish poets, with-
out any indication of nationality. But
surely, then, American poets —as dis-
tinct from T. S. Eliot, who is English
by adoption—should be included just
as naturally? Does this mean that
America has an indigenous literature,
separate from English literature, while
Australia has not? These four Aus-
tralian writers seem to have been
negligently dropped in, like plums into
a pudding to give a new flavor.
However, in spite of questions that
inevitably arise, this anthology shows
scholarship and originality. As Pro-
fessor Jeff ares says in his introduction,
he has tried to provide “a skeletal per-
ception of the subject: the tree-like
growth of English poetry from its
gnarled roots in the dark Anglo-Saxon
soil to the modern blossom, the
anthos.” In this he has succeeded,
though some may feel that he has left
a good many blossoms ungarnered:
John Drinkwater, Laurence Binyon,
Alfred Noyes, Wilfrid Wilson
Gibson . . .
But there is Alex Comfort s power-
ful last-war poem,' “So like a ship the
dead man comes to shore,” and Edith
Sitwell’s magnificent “Still Falls the
Rain,” the exuberance of Dylan
Thomas, and Louis MacNeice’s
delightful “Bagpipe • Music.” That is
the beauty of this anthology. It is no
dead academic tome, but is full of
vigorous life, coming right up to the
present day with a clinical study in
verse of (believe it or not) “A Mitral
Stenosis Valvulotomy in the General
Infirmary at Leeds.”
N.C.
Reviewed Briefly
World Without Mercy: The Story
of the Sahara: Rene Lecler (Werner
Laurie). Here is how to go to Tim-
buktu ; in fact, how various different
explorers travelled in the Sahara: De
Foucauld the French saint; Barth the
German; Laperrine, the French
soldier who died there after crossing
it 11 times from end to end ; Caillie,
who was “the first man to return from
Timbuktu (1828).” M. Lecler gives
the palm to Barth, who entered Tripoli
in 1855 after 5£ years in which he had
“crossed the world’s greatest desert
twice, travelled extensively all over
the Sudan from the Chad to Tim-
buktu and covered a distance of over
6000 miles.” With 12 plates from
photographs.
* * $ *
A History of the United States: D. C.
Somervell (Heinemann). It is some-
thing to learn from this book the origin
of the phrase “not worth a continen-
tal”: “continentals” were worthless
paper-money with which Washington
paid his troops. But how much more
one can learn, in the way of vivid
detail, when Mr. Somervell says that
the War of Independence “regarded
as a military event” is “one of the
least interesting in history,” is proble-
matical. It is a compact and fluent
survey, in a simple style, without much
life or color. A tepid account of
Emerson, Longfellow and Whitman is
to some extent offset by some
interesting reflections on Dickens’s
“Martin Chuzzlewit” and “American
Notes” as a contribution to Anglo-
American misunderstanding.
* * * *
Michael Faraday: James Kendall
(Faber). Faraday must have been an
extremely vexatious man to the spooks
in his day, as he was also to Elizabeth
Barrett Browning, who called him a
“shallow materialist” ; for, when table-
turning by the spirits was all the vogue,
he proved that it could not have been
done by electricity and then, by an
arrangement of levers, pins and card-
board, proved that it wasn’t the spirits
either but simply “unconscious mus-
cular action on the part of the experi-
menters”—the hands become numb and
stiff while waiting, the resultant
pressure builds up into the force that
moves the table. Faraday also, of
course, invented electricity ; started as
a newsboy ; was inspired by and dis-
agreed with Sir Humphry Davy;
investigated a coal-mining disaster and
found himself sitting on a keg of gun-
powder ; toured Europe and found the
ladies of Italy “pert, indolent and oh,
so naughty” ; wrote poetry ; married
. . . And Professor Kendall has written
a very pleasant book about him.
* * * *
John Ruskin: Joan Evans (Cape).
Everybody who knew Ruskin in his
younger days spoke of his effeminacy
and his “boyish” gaiety ; Miss Evans,
having his eventual collapse too much
in mind from the outset, portrays his
effeminacy—especially in his strange
marriage—well enough but misses the
gaiety. However, this is a full-scale
biography; long, solid, informative,
obviously reliable, and giving as a
whole a very curious picture of the
sometimes acute and sometimes
muddle-minded critic whom Carlyle
wickedly described as “a bottle of
beautiful soda-water.”
* * * *
Drama Library publications from
Heinemann include The Second Book
of One-act Plays (Rubenstein’s
“Bernard Shaw in Heaven,”. Hubert
Nicholson’s “Port and a Pistol,”
Kenneth Lillington’s “The Devil’s
Grandson” and Emlyn Williams’s
“Vigil”) and Two Saints’ Plays, com-
prising Leo Lehman’s “St. Chad of the
Seven Wells” and Robert Gittings’s
“Man’s Estate.”
* * * *
Captivity Captive: James B. Chutter
(Cape). Senior Chaplain of the South
African 2nd Division, the Rev. Chutter
tells the story of the capture of the
division, with its attached Scottish,
English and Indian brigades and
battalions, all under General Klopper,
when Tobruk fell to Rommel in June,
1942, and goes on to the trek through
prison-camps on the “Chieti-Moosburg-
Trubau-Brunswick circuit.” Chieti
was their happiest camp; Moosburg
the worst —there is a story, at second-
hand, of starving Russians howling
invective in the bungalow of their com-
pound: the German guards let loose
three wolf-hounds in the bungalow;
but later, when they cautiously opened
the door, they were pelted with the
skins and heads of the hounds—the
rest being in the bellies of the Russians.
Perhaps the best part of the Rev.
Chutter’s story —since life in prison-
camps hardly varies for the hundreth
account—is the story of the slow train-
journey from Brunswick to Annaburg
as the Russians advanced, and then
the march through the forests to the
Mulde River, where they met the
liberating American Army: German
guards bargaining to be kept with the
column, out of reach of a rumored
pursuit by S.S. and, of course, Russians.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 330
Across
I—Parent1 —Parent managed nothing b‘ut a
Federal electorate when a N.Z.
monster swallows an Irish isle.
(7)
s—Bob for a crossword-maker and a
dominion that is south. (7)
■9—Dramatist has to furnish an
account of this to the tax-office
of the Crown and its relatives.
(7)
30 — One who mocks the South
Carolina bid at auction. (7)
31 — Wycliffe’s followers behold 50
fats. (8)
33 —Gregory was one who was
responsible for such a century
against Hampshire. (6)
35 Prosperity bar across the harbor
bittern’s cry. (4)
36 — Petty crook smashes the ink-safe.
(5-5)
19 — Raging wool-producer and Father
George love America to crash
headlong into buttons and then
ring you and me. (10)
20— African heads off Zanzibar
University’s lady undergraduates.
(4)
22 — The people in the drama in iront
of the French chateau. (6)
23 — Developing another state when
enhancing one’s looks. (8)
25 Insect swallows citrus food. (7)
26 — Equipment for fencing and
wrapping? (7)
27 Roy Rene is to doze, but I see
like a mournful ode. (7)
28 — Early boy among bees —or a
futile suggestion to the yellow
press. (7)
Down
I—Allies1 —Allies might be bought at such a
counter town in W.A. (6, 3)
2 —Percentage paid to the ruling
family investigation into matters
of state. (5, 10)
3 Of absolutely no effect like
clubs. (6)
4 Unspecifically one heart for
Tanya. (3)
5 Henry of Navarre thought Paris
was worth one mother-ship. (4)
6 The beginner they open differ-
ently. (8) .
7 Funnel-shaped batting diversion
with much laughing jackbone
before you take 51 for 1000. (15)
8— Classifies the crumb in the
steamer. (5)
12—Bottom’s top mgiht suggest this
scale in which Bradman sings.
(6)
14_Greeting a state instrument with
50 in some cookery. (6)
17 — They enable two fish to breathe
in a pint. (4, 5)
18 — Where the trains terminate
N.S.W.’s Mr. Winsor or Vic-
toria's Mr. Clapp, for instance.
(8)
21— Poetry equipment for trapping
an offspring. (6)
22 — Entrance in March. (5)
24 —Love some muscular twitch of
the ear. (4)
26—Where the bath-water is not only
turned on but turned up, too.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 329


Successful Results Can be Ensured Only by
Correct Use of Suitable Hormone Sprays...
growth
Before undertaking spraying, information regarding the correct type of spray for the
and type of crop, should be obtained. Your district Agronomist or any reputable manufacturer of Hormone
Sprays will help you in this regard.
THE M.V. 30ft. BOOM
SPRAY
A bove sketch shows
position of nozzles, and
protective skids which
are mounted at each
end of boom.
THE EXCLUSIVE FEATURES OF MOFFAT-VIRTUE BOOM SPRAY...
suitable both for crop and pasture spraying.
The Plant is fully articulated, per-
mitting both arms to be folded back
at right angles. A special Gravity
Hinge (Pat. Pending) allows each
side section to swing back and up,
if it hits an obstruction.
When the Boom is clear, it swings
back under its own weight and locks
in the normal position. The ex-
clusive high - pressure, fan-type
nozzles ensure even application,
and are fitted with inbuilt gauze
strainers.
The Roller Spray can be adjusted
to give a complete range of pressures
up to 3001b. per sq. inch without
fluctuations. This is the unit which
was used so successfully by the De-
partment of Agriculture, in the
eradication of the Argentine Ant
(both in N.S.W. and in West Aus-
tralia).
Further particulars of the M.V.
JBoom Spray Equipment may be
obtained from any of the Interstate
Distributors listed at the foot of this
page.
THE MOFFAT-YIRTUE
Roller Spray Plant...
The M.V. Roller Spray Plant has
been found to be the ideal unit for
powering the Boom Spray, and the
former can be used independently
for spot spraying by using a 60ft.
Hose assembly. The Roller Spray
can be adjusted to give a complete
range of pressures up to 301bs. per
square inch without fluctuations..
m
This is a fast, efficient spray plant...
light, compact and easy to carry. It
is fitted with a patented needle
roller eccentric drive, which gives a
smooth action and long hours of
trouble-free pumping. Powered by
a reliable air-cooled four-cycle
engine, it will maintain a steady,
even pressure... up to 301bs. per
square inch, and is equipped with
extra long, light-weight hoses.
Built to last a lifetime with: —
1. Non-corrosive air-bottle.
2. Non-corrosive pump body.
3. Non-corrosive ball-valve.
4. Replaceable valve-seat inserts*
and non-corrosive valve springs.
5. Non-corrosive cylinders and
pistons.
6. Renewable cylinder liners.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
SOUTHERN Q’LAND: Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide ; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide,
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited*
Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
m.v. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page b a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
May
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1955
160 MILLION BUSHELS OF WHEAT Will Be
Harvested This Year IF Farmers Protect
their crops against
weeds — m Your* Be Safe ?
Sawing is under way again, so this is the time to prepare to meet the
dangers of weed growth. Modern farmers everywhere have shown that,
where the season is right, weeds can be stopped dead, and a bumper
crop ensured, when the new shoots are sprayed with Hormone Weed
Killers.
Despite poor seasons, and decreased
acreages sown, over the past few
years, figures show that yields have
not appreciably fallen. A great deal
of the credit for this must be given
to the increasing use of Hormone
Sprays.
That farmers have tried them and
found them successful is shown by
the enormous increase in the use of
Hormones since their introduction.
Manufacturers have reported spec-
tacular increases in sale of Hormone
Sprays over the past few years.
The big advantage of spraying with
Hormones is that the farmer can
cover large areas quickly and indis-
criminately, without fear of damage
do his crops, as these Hormones,
when correctly used, will only attack
the particular weeds he wishes to
destroy.
Naturally, the effective application of
Hormone Sprays depends greatly
on the suitability of the equipment
used for spraying. Moffat-Virtue
Limited spared no efforts in design-
ing and manufacturing a machine
to make the best use of these won-
derful new weed killers.
The Moffat-Virtue Boom spray
equipment is the result of sound en-
gineering design and thorough test-
ing under actual working conditions.
In order to obtain best results with
Hormone Sprays, good penetration
is required. This is accomplished in
the Moffat-Virtue Boom Spray
Equipment by the incorporation of
the M-V Roller Spray Plant which
allows for spraying at the right pres-
Diagram illustrates correct height of boom for proper single or double cover, and
results of Incorrect boom height. Note that double cover does not increase the
amount of spray applied per acre. A, height for single covet age, 8, height jot
doable coverage; C, improper height {incomplete cover); D improper height
(unequal cover); E. degrees of spray (an width (fan angle); F, nozzle spacing.
sure, and at the same time has the
advantage of “low volume” delivery
from the spray nozzles, which pre-
vents wastage of the valuable spray-
ing fluid through “drift” or excess
saturation of the crop.
Using a Moffat-Virtue Boom
Spray a farmer can effectively cover
as much as 252 acres of his crop in
one day with Hormone Weed Killer
depending on the rate of application
required. However, the farmer must
be careful to follow the instructions
on Hormone application given by
the Manufacturer.
The ease of application and the time
saving alone, make the Boom Spray
Equipment a necessary investment
for every wheat farmer.
Since the correct time to spray is
rather limited, you have only a few
weeks to consider the purchase of
Hormone Spraying equipment.
We therefore urge every farmer to
contact us, or any of the State Dis-
tributors listed at the foot of .this
page, for further particulars and
illustrated literature.
