

SNOWY PLAYGROUND
PAGE 25
e
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3939
Wednesday, August 10, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 258: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
THE KING'S LYNN GUILDHALL, WHERE OLD-TIME MERCHANTS PLANNES THEIR SALES
TTTNG’S LYNN, situated on the shores of the Wash near the
mouth of the River Ouse in East Anglia, is one of England’s
most historic towns, and for many centuries it has been an important
shipping centre. When King John visited the town in 1204 the port
dues then collected were about two-thirds those of London, and it
was the third-largest port in the Kingdom owing to its nearness to
the Continent. King John granted a charter which made the
Borough of Lynn a free Borough, and he also created the Trinity
Guild, a Corporate Guild of the leading merchants.
The present Guildhall, shown in the accompanying illustration,
was originally the hall of the Trinity Guild. This remarkable
building, built in 1423, with a chequered black flint and white stone
front, bears the arms of Queen Elizabeth I above the entrance porch.
The hall has a beautiful 15th-century window and an impressive
banqueting hall on the walls of which are the portraits of many
famous men of King’s Lynn ; they include Sir Robert Walpole,
M.P. for the Borough 1702-42 and Prime Minister for twentythree
years, Lord George Bentinck, M.P. • 1828-48, and Captain George
Vancouver, the famous navigator who sailed with Captain Cook
and whose name was given to Vancouver Island off the coast of
British Columbia.
Through the centuries King’s Lynn has had many royal visits,
and in the Borough archives are no fewer than nineteen Royal
Charters which conferred various powers on the corporation. In the
Town Hall are displayed records which go back to the Middle Ages,
and the valuable regalia includes the elaborate King John cup and
a sword presented by King John in 1216.


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—Action, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
ROUND THE WORLD IN NOVELS
France
There seem to be two kinds of French
novels these days, the grim and sordid
like those of Sartre and Simenon, the
rustic and Rabelaisian—though that
is too heavy a word for the type—like
those of Chevallier. Marcel Ayme’s
The Green Mare (Bodley Head), trans-
lated by Norman Denny, is one of the
rustic and Rabelaisian variety.
It is, in fact, very much like a
thinned-out version of “Clochemerle”:
there is the green countryside, having
less to do here with grapes than with
pigs and cattle and hay; ther* are
farmers and villagers feuding and
bargaining; there is the conflict between
Puritanism and gaiety; and, from the
children to the greybeards, there is
everywhere a charming and amusing
preoccupation with l’amour—in fact,
Marcel Ayme, through the mouth of
his oracular green mare, offers the
interesting theory that all differences
and dislikes between families, and
thence between sects and nations, have
their origin in the different patterns of
love-making that each household
develops.
The looseness of the novel, in the
literary, not the amatory, sense, is
extreme. One would think it was a
first-novel, so very uncertain is it in
construction and movement; but M.
Ayme is the author of at least seven
other novels translated* into English.
He never really seems to know what
this one is about. There is the green
mare which was born in an earlier
generation, establishing the fortunes of
the Haudouin family; the portrait of
which animal, gifted with the power of
meditation, from time to time interrupts
the course of the story to comment on
the action and to talk about love—a
perfectly preposterous device. There
is the village postman, who loses a
letter which reveals the skeleton in the
Haudouin cupboard and who turns up
at the right moment to save a Haudouin
daughter from being ravished by their
enemies the Malorets—another device
to link the stoiy together, failing to
do so because the postman is too much
offstage.
There is the antagonism between the.
vigorous Honore Haudouin and his
miserly and . puritanical brother
Ferdinand: which never comes to any-
thing of note. There is the feuding
between the Haudouins and the
Malorets, reaching one of its climaxes
when each family tries to ravish a
daughter of the other, but not very
effective because the attempts are
unsuccessful and unemotional.
The true central theme of the novel
is, perhaps, rather more dramatic than
the author cared to handle: something
for a Maupassant. Because of infor-
mation given by a Maloret, Haudouin’s
mother was assaulted—not altogether
to her disapproval—by a German
officer during the Franco-Frussian war;
and in the end, after vaguely drifting
towards revenge, Honore Haudouin
inflicts an appropriate punishment on
the wife of the informer. But the
theme of revenge, whether it is to be
grim or gay, is never clearly enough
developed to make the novel a unity.
The book is to be read for its idle
charm, as a typical village entertain-
ment, closely resembling the French
films everybody likes so much.
Italy
Nothing New Under the Sun, by
Riccardo Bacchelli (Hutchinson), com-
pletes Bacchelli’s tremendous trilogy
“The Mill on the Po.”
“Nothing New Under the Sun” can
be read as an entity; it carries the saga
of the Scarcerni family which began
during the Napoleonic wars, up to the
death of a young Lazarro Scarcemi on
the Piave in 1918, so that this family,
whose fortunes were begun on the
Beresina during the Moscow retreat,
and whose history flowed and ebbed
like the great river where they made
their home and livelihood, ends appro-
priately at the bank of a stream.
There is, of course, conscious
symbolism in this, but the real symbol
continues to be the flour-mill which
the indomitable mother, Cecilia, is
managing in terrible difficulty and
poverty throughout most of the book.
The tragedy of the Scarcemi family
and the neighboring peasants is the
tragedy of proud and independent
people too ignorant and perhaps too
wise to conform to bureaucratic
nationalism and the industrial age.
Unfortunately a too-careful and woe-
fully dull translation makes it very
difficult for English-speaking readers
to judge this book accurately.
Bacchelli’s work has been compared to
“War and Peace”—a valid comparison;
but one has read “War and Peace”
most beautifully translated, and there
is no comparison to be made in actual
reading pleasure with this version. This
reviewer understands from an Italian
source that Bacchelli is admired for his
prose style in Italy, and one can only
hope that, some day, an adequate trans-
lator will be found for his work—it is
quite important enough to justify it.
Portugal
How distance and the thaumaturgic
reverberation of place-names do lend
glamor to foreign parts! Here is
Jacinto, the Portuguese hero of The
City and the Mountains, by Eca de
Queiroz (Reinhardt), trotting through
the Bois de Boulogne in the ’nineties,
and it looks the most enchanting place:
While, to the noble trot of his
superb mares, we drove up the
Avenue du Bois, rejuvenated by the
tender lawns and the young shoots,
Jacinto, blowing the smoke of his
cigarette through the carriage win-
dows, remained the good comrade,
with the lovable character, with
whom it had been so pleasant to
ramble philosophically round Paris
~. ..When we passed the gilded gates
of the Bois and came into the Avenue
des Acacias, insinuating ourselves
into the long files of carriages de
luxe.... he would murmur a name.
Thus I got to know the curly
Hebrew beard of the banker
Ephraim; the long patrician nose of
Madame de Treves mounting guard
over a perennial smile ; the flaccid
cheeks of the neo-platonic poet
Dornan; the long pre-Raphaelite
plaits of Madame Verghane . . .
Even if you are not allowed to walk,
far less to sit, on the tender lawns, the
Bois is, to be sure, very pleasant for a
city park; quite as charming as Cen-
tennial Park in Sydney, if hardly to be
compared with the lovely wilderness
of King’s Park in Perth, so soft with
smoke-bush and gay with kangaroo-
paws. But as for seriously comparing
it for a moment with any wild bit of
the Dandenongs or Kuringai Chase
that has not yet been flattened by bull-
dozers or defiled by rubbish-dumps, it
is just not in the picture. Mother
Nature is a very tame old lady in the
spaces where the cities of Europe let
themselves out to breathe.
And that, precisely, is the theme
of this delightful book by Portugal’s
greatest modern novelist, who was born
in 1843 and who has been excellently
translated into English by the poet Roy
Campbell.
That and no more: you would
wonder how a novel could possibly be
sustained on so slender a drama:
simply the contrast between city and
country, something that has been
done a thousand times since Horace.
The story is no more than that,
wealthy and wearied to death after
trying-out every refinement of 19th-
century civilisation in Paris, Jacinto
returns to his ancestral estate in the
mountains of Portugal, and there
among the summer vines and the winter
snows finds health, happiness and a
wife.
From where does the sustaining
interest come, to make so simple a
tale give pleasure all the way through?
It is hardly in Jacinto’s personality,
for although one sees him clearly
enough in Paris as a sort of princely
dilettante, like Oscar Wilde at his best,
he is rather lost from sight amongst
the scenery when he comes home to
Portugal. Neither is it altogether the
personality of the narrator, for, though
he has one bizarre love-affair and is
always good-humored, we really do not
follow his career very closely either.
Nor, for the same reason, is it Jacinto’s
negro servant, who appears only at rare
intervals to lose the masses of luggage
or to grumble at the austerities of the
mountains.
The appeal of the novel must be
made-up of many small attractions, all
combining in the end as the single
expression of a lyrical and amusing
talent: the glimpses of these three
principal characters; the sympathy
which De Queiroz manages to infuse
into Jacinto’s dilemma—he is so wist-
fully unhappy amidst all his luxuries;
the touches of grandeur and spacious-
ness, both in the mansion in Paris,
crammed with books, bric-a-brac,
courtesans, grand-dukes and gadgets,
and in the ruinous establishment in
Portugal; the unfamiliar pictures of
Portuguese life, or so much of it as
we see in a few meetings with awed
and poverty-stricken peasants; above
all, the sincerity and freshness with
which De Queiroz sets down his affec-
tion for his native countryside—of
which, since he spent his life travelling
in the Portuguese diplomatic service in
Egypt, Palestine, France and England,
he must have seen even less than
Jacinto.
VARIOUS VERSE
YARRABANDAI
The plains are wide, the plains are hard;
smoke smells good.
The pale sun is leaving us. Mutton stew
is food.
Burn your feet at the fire, as your back
dies cold;
Tobacco and a mug of rum are worthier
than gold.
Pull the blankets over your head; let
the fox cry.
Talk to yourself and the tin roof, crack-
ing its reply.
Ten degrees or more of frost, and kooka-
burras laugh—
A bird has a feathered overcoat, a bird
has a feathered scarf.
Fingers die at the match-flame, and the
billy is slow to boil.
A pale moon and a pale star and a long
day’s toil.
Sun and frost and clouded breath, and a
crow flies high—
Tug at the frozen earth, my boy; laugh
at the frozen sky.
N.S.W.
JOHN O’GRADY.
BEFORE THERE WAS ONE
MACHINE
Before there was one machine
the silence of the world.
The unexpected variousness of sound
before the drill
the engine
the clock
or the first turning wheel.
Before, even, the monotonous water-wheel.
Silence. Or sound with nothing to
measure it out,
nothing to time it by.
Before speech or song,
earlier than rhythm clapped out by hand
or stuttered on drum.
The silence of the world.
For even the surf
or water on stone falling
by single drop and drop
alter, increase, diminish and falter.
The silence of that world
its only regular sounds
being soft breathing and the animal
heart.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
THE PASSIONATE SHEARER
He: Come live with me. We will go
droving;
The river-bend s the place for Ipving
With johnny-cakes and parrakeet,
And stars and blueys for a sheet.
We will go down the Lachlan-side
And sing like Clancy as we ride;
As soon as shearing-time comes in,
We’ll toss our swags and choose a
pen.
I will be ringer of the shed,
Then we’ll have breakfast served
in bed
By slattern maids in cotton caps
In trouble with their shoulder-
straps. ’
She: And while you shear the tender
sheep,
I a faithful count will keep;
For rouseabouts I’ve ballet-girls
With combs and cutters in their
curls,
Who, when the smoke-oh whistle
blows,
Will dance a number on their toes
With jugs of beer and violets
For weaving garlands round your
hats.
I will twine myall through your hair
And sing most sweetly, “Shearer,
shear I
Since Time’s a shearer, where’s the
sin
In kissing in the super-bin?”
a.c.t.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
New York
In Most Likely to Succeed (Hale)
John Dos Passes traces the career of a
young American Jew who has been
voted by his college-class in terms of
the title: he is shown returning from
Europe in the arms of a rich young
woman during the boom before the
depression; he is about to be divorced
from his wife and to produce a Leftist
play as part of a Greenwich Village
set-up financed by a New York capi-
talist, and he is living with, and some-
what on, a beautiful New York artist
and illustrator.
The fever of New York life and
thought as it centres round the theatre,
and the freedom of its morals, are pre-
sented here with considerable force, and
the effect is intensified by a visit to the
Cape Cod holiday-cottage of the girl-
artist’s well-to-do parents and a wild
party there; the New York intellect
burns with the flare of intentions, atten-
tions and contentions well-soaked in
spirits.
From there the action moves to
Hollywood, where the playwright be-
comes one of the most successful of the
film-writers, and is drawn further and
further towards actual membership of
the Communist party, while his wife
bears him children at considerable
danger to herself and develops an
earlier tendency to drink too much;
with resulting complications.
These later chapters are a kind of
nervous breakdown: the people act
like phantoms, puzzling, one sus-
pects, not only the reader but the
author. The jacket simplifies the hero
to “a man who not only destroyed him-
self but dragged to ruin those he had
helped make victims of a false
doctrine,” but this is not borne out by
the book at all. Maybe he was a “mis-
guided, destructive citizen who seeks to
change a way of life that benefits him”;
but his troubles are not all shown to be
of his own making: he is less a speed-
boat than a piece of driftwood bump-
ing against other pieces of driftwood
on Mr. Dos Passos’s sea of uncertainty.
Chinese Contribution
The versatile Dr. Lin Yutang pro-
vides a most delightful fantasy in his
latest novel The Unexpected Island
(Heinemann) —a very wise and wily
work it is.
Set some fifty years hence after two
more world wars, it concerns the fate
of a young American girl who, engaged
on a geodetic survey for the World
Commonwealth, is lost on an uncharted
Pacific island.
The island, Thainos, is inhabited by
a group of Europeans (nearly all
Greeks and Italians) and its native
population, all entirely cut off from
the world. The Europeans had formed
an expedition in the 1970’5, led by a
wealthy Greek financier and inspired
by “Laos,” a philosopher half-Greek,
half-Chinese.
On Thainos the world of ancient
Greece has been to some extent
(<Continued on page 35)


(IV)
X
All the quality and tradition
of German craftsmanship is
in these barometers. Finely
finished and mounted in
polished wood, they make
a handsome ornament for
home or office and give
a touch of Continental distinction to any room.
n
m
m
l!i r i
mmzM
-o-
\v>-
P^J
m
m
2s.
mm
%
■5
( -
■w?
w
ms’
Q'\ , =^o
1
m
m
m
WmM
&
CO
s.»- :
ss
BfggJSl
£
'0
3d
P
1
Barometer No. 651 is attractively set
in ship’s wheel design, in smart polished
wood. Priced at only £4/16/3 each.
s?'
m
\
AO
VTrs
/
vtO
OOdOk>J> O' OO) O M 0)0) ON-f
iftlffii °| ° j?' ° l” Tifii.
ih/ii i in ni iiiu nim'Hi 111 mi innriiriu iiTiiuiii mi m 11 1 mu
ri i?im
T M
n
wW°lwilwL>;L4>iX
U)LJI
))
3>
HI III! 11l
a) n
1111 Mill 111 l
t- 1 a
o o
Barometer No. 615-3 J is set
in a round wood case. Suitable
for use in the home or office.
Priced at only £3/16/- each.
Barometer No. 4259 has thermometer
attached. Set in highly polished wood, it’s
distinctively styled and finished. £7/4/9 each.
Left: British household Thermometer, 8/6.
Right : Thermometer for sweetmakers, made
by Zeow of London and priced at 21/- each.
M !■
"TRUTH IN,ADVERTISING
BAROMETERS, GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 10, 1955
Vol 76—No. 3939
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521%
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
STEERED TO RUIN
IN all the circumstances the results of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. conference, which is to be held
on August 13-14, seem to be evident before the
Donnybrook is fought out.
Almost any political prophet could have
estimated the general course of events. It was as
certain as night follows day that there would be a
general arraying of union strength for and against
industrial-group control. It was certain that the
preponderance of that strength, seeing, that Dr.
Evatt has the full and affectionate support of all
the big Red unions, would fall on his side. It was
equally certain that on the Sabbath before the trial
of strength in conference the “great liberal” of the
United Front would make a sensational utterance,
during which he would drag Santamarias out of his
hat by the hair and do his best to spread alarm
among the waverers and fear among his opponents.
Any political writer could have described the speech
in advance—strident, specious, panic-mongering.
It was a foregone conclusion, too, that, with
the experts in manoeuvre whom he has on his
side, men trained in Communist tactics before
they became “Labor” men, there would be a
tortuous organisation in being to see that as little
opportunity as possible was given opponents of
the Pride of Barton to exhibit their personalities
or to take the initiative. For many years the basic
organisation of “Labor” has been on a Communist
model—there has been an “agenda” committee to
try to see that nothing unpalatable gets before the
conference, nothing which might be carried against
the organisers if it were proposed. There is, in
times of stress, a “steering-committee” which in
advance acts with more boldness and less, or no,
scruple. The duty of the steering-committee is to
steer adversaries into oblivion and to make no bones
about it. It is a magnificent device which can be
used to secure minority-control of a body, to close
awkward moulhs and to give the side to which the
steerers belong absolute ascendancy in the meetings
as well as absolute initiative. Not only will it
attempt to see that nothing or nobody comes before
the conference which Dr. Evatt does not want
discussed, but that the discussion is confined within
limits that suit him.
The Doctor may not have learnt a great deal
from experience in his long career, but he has learnt
an awful lot from Lenin and Trotsky, who secured
the dictatorship of Russia by methods similar to
those he is now adopting and whose successors have
kept control of the Soviet Union ever since by the
same system, applied in a manner somewhat more
absolute but not yet possible in Australia.
One of the first actions of the Combined
A.L.P. Unions’ Steering Committee, the political
standover- and pressure-group which is to operate
on this occasion, was to reject the “unity-ticket”
proposal. This came from the N.S.W. A.L.P. and
Federal officers of the party. Had it come from the
Communist-led unions it would, as in the A.R.U.
elections in Victoria, have been all right. But there
was no need to discuss a unity movement as between
Communist-led bodies and the Evatt section
involved. They already were one big family.
However, coming from the Cahill party, the
unity scheme was at once rejected. In the mean-
time, Dr. Evatt’s Sabbath rally had been advertised
not for the purpose of allowing the Great Man to
air his views so much as to force every member of
the two Parliamentary parties, Federal and State,
to exhibit theirs.
Combined with the steering-committee’s opera-
tions against a unity move—unity, incidentally,
being the first, the primal, the basic theory of
“Labor” progress—the rally was called to sift
the victims from the executioners.
There were soon signs that the doomed have
no intention of going willingly to the scaffold, and
the number of politicians who refused to put their
hands behind their backs to be bound, as a pre-
liminary to political immolation, was astonishing
in a world of indiarubber-men, or would have been
if the future of the resisters had not been anyway
painfully bleak and hopeless in surrender.
Mr. Cahill, for instance, had been doomed, if
the Evatt party became dominant, ever since
Dougherty branded him with the mark of Santa-
maria. And while Dr. Evatt had been ready to
stomach in the party such adverse personalities as
Messrs. Daly (Federal Whip), Dan Minogue,
Stewart, W. O’Connor, Gordon Anderson and
Senator Armstrong (because he had little alterna-
tive) they had shown no disposition to stomach him.
It appeared that all of them would refuse to
associate with Dr. Evatt on the Town Hall platform,
which is an impossible position for the leader of a
great party to be put in by his followers, and
particularly by his Chief Parliamentary Whip and
his Deputy-Leader in the Senate. The announce-
ment by Mr. Cahill that his Cabinet would boycott
the meeting was a rallying-ciy to most of the 89
“Labor” members of the N. S. Wales Assembly and
Council—leaving only the loyal members of the
House of Representatives and a dozen State
members as possibilities of support. Added to this,
it was an open secret that Alderman Hills, Sydney’s
acrobatic Lord Mayor-M.L.A., would put his weight
behind his friend Dan Minogue. It would be
unthinkable if it were otherwise—those who know
Mr. Hills’s Parliamentary bailiwick recognise that
without the help of Mr. Minogue it would be
doubtful if Mr. Hills could remain in politics.
The Federal A.L.P. president, Mr. Chamber-
lain, is alleged, with other Federal officers, to be
against any conference not on a unity basis and to
have been opposed particularly to last Sunday’s
rally. But Dr. Evatt appears to be past caring what
anybody thinks. He has become a man obsessed, a
parallel in “Labor” politics to the Lang of 1932,
guided by frantic ambition rather than reason, and
talking in slogans like a Malenkov. He is in the
amazing position, with Parliament meeting in
Canberra on August 24, that he has challenged
those who have remained inside the party, though
opposed to him in order to support the standard
“Labor” policy of unity, to break with him now.
This may seem the act of a politician demented, but
it is not so. **
It would seem, on present showing, that Dr.
Evatt has come to the desperate conclusion that
there is only one issue on which he might scrape
back to Parliament with a sizeable following at
the very possible early Federal election—the
sectarian issue. And obviously he is prepared to
come at anything, whatever happens to the party
afterwards.
Artesian Fancy and Fact
THE artesian-water system of Australia does not
nowadays attract the public interest it did a couple
of generations ago, when its possibilities were just
beginning to be exploited and its potentialities were
thought by some to be virtually unlimited. The
Snowy Mountains scheme and other projects for
harnessing the surface-waters of the continent have
now captured the public imagination. But to the
people living in the drier parts of that area artesian-
water is still of prime importance and its continued
flow a vital factor in the welfare, if not the very
existence, of the stock-raising industry.
The Great Artesian Basin extends over (or
under) a large portion of Queensland, north-western
New South Wales and north-eastern South Aus-
tralia; it laps into the Northern Territory south of
the Simpson Desert, maybe even including it. Its
total area is estimated at 670,000 square miles, equal
to the whole of Queensland, and as 60 per cent, of it
lies within that State, Queensland has always taken
more interest in the future of the supply than have
the other States.
The first artesian-bore was sunk at Kallara,
between Bourke and Wilcannia, in New South
Wales, in 1879; it struck free-flowing water at
140 ft. Most bores are of greater depth, many of
them going down thousands of feet—the deepest
about 7000 ft. In speaking of underground-water,
the term “artesian” is applied to water which, when
tapped, reaches the surface under the compulsion
of purely natural forces; if it rises above the level
of the stratum pierced by the drill, but not high
enough to reach the surface, it is termed “sub-
artesian,” and may be utilised by pumping.
“Ground-water” is that to which access is gained
by digging or boring but which does not rise above
its original level when tapped. Ground-water is
usually contained in shallow, uncapped sandstone
strata into which it has soaked from above.
Artesian water is imprisoned, often at great depth,
beneath impermeable rock, often at a great distance
from its point of origin. On the piercing of the
overlying rock the repressed tendency of the water
to find its own level asserts itself, bringing the water
to the surface.
Shortly after the Kallara bore was proved, R.
Logan Jack reported to the Queensland Govern-
ment that he felt it probable that below the western
plains was a large artesian basin in which was
trapped “the greater part of the drainage of the
Dividing Range between the Flinders and the Burde-
kin.” As a result of the 1885 drought he and J. B.
Henderson were appointed to select sites for testing
this theory. Flowing bores were obtained near
Cunnamulla, Barcaldine and Blackall, and once the
possibility had been established dozens of Govern-
ment and hundreds of private bores were soon
drilled. Some yielded only small returns—sooo to
10,000 gallons a day; others topped the million-
gallon mark. For one bore near Cunnamulla a
daily-rate of 4,500,000 gallons has been claimed.
Much of the artesian water was too alkaline for
agricultural use, but most of it was quite suitable for
stock, and it made possible a great extension of the
pastoral industry. Private bores on pastoral leases
were supplemented by Government bores on stock-
routes —the Birdsville Track is one route which
would be impassable except in good seasons without
the bores—and for a while everyone acted as though
the underground-tank would go on yielding increas-
ing supplies for ever. In Queensland the yield
reached its peak in 1914 at about 355 million
gallons a day, but by then many bores had already
ceased flowing and anxiety was arising concerning
future supplies. Diminution continued, and by 1945
the output was down to 230 million gallons,
although there were 800 more bores than in 1914.
By that time the Queensland Government had
appointed a committee to study the problem of
diminishing supply. Its interim report, issued in
1945, said that it had been established that the rate
of diminution was declining. Appendices recently
published discuss the geological and hydrological
aspects of the problem, the former the field of
Professor Whitehouse of the University of Queens-
land and the latter that of C. Ogilvie, former
district-engineer of the Queensland Irrigation
Commission.
Shorn of technicalities, their findings are that
never again can the big flow of 40 years ago be
expected; that the ultimate flow can, by intelligent
action, be held to round about 110 million gallons
in perpetuity; that steps should be taken at once to
ensure this; and that much better use could be made
of the flow, most of which is at present lost by
evaporation and seepage.
Contrary to general assumption, the reduced
flow is not due to a big depletion in the aggregate
amount of water stored deep down in the basin; it
is estimated that the entire withdrawals in the whole
70 years of exploitation have not lowered the water-
level in the storage-rocks by more than one inch—
and the water-bearing strata are in many places
hundreds of feet thick. What the draw-off has done
is upset the equilibrium of forces in the basin so
that the hydrostatic pressure is no longer high
enough to maintain the rate of flow. It is now
realised that if more water is taken out in flow
than can be replaced at the intake region on the east
of the basin diminution must occur. As Mr. Ogilvie
puts the maximum recharge-figure at 135 million
gallons a day, it is clear that the safety-point was
passed long ago.
It is a curious anomaly that although the ulti-
mate flow is governed by the intake, in the early
days of boring the sinking of bores actually
increased the intake. Apparently the reason for this
is that, vast as the basin is, there is a limit to the
amount of water it can absorb and that in the course
of geological ages saturation-point had been
reached. As a result new water could force its way
in at the intake only to the extent necessary to
replace the loss through natural springs—a very
limited quantity. The first few hundred bores had
the effect of relieving the back-pressure at the intake
so that greater quantities of new water were
admitted, but this phase soon passed as the
maximum intake-figure was reached. Further
boring diminished the flow, not because it
was drawing upon the capital reserves of water but
because it was reducing the general pressure-force
by a greater degree than could be compensated by
the pressure of the maximum intake.
Mr. Ogilvie’s findings seem to be that if
remedial measures—such as restriction of flow on
some of the more wasteful bores —are taken the
dwindling output will be stabilised at 110 million
gallons after allowing for leakage and natural
springs. If nothing at all is done about it the
residual flow will still settle down at 110 million
gallons. The layman may well ask what the experts
are worrying about. The answer is that the best-
flowing bores and the ones with certainty of
perpetual youth are not necessarily in the areas
which most need their water. The problem is to
gear-down some of these so as to guarantee a
continued flow in bores of weaker pressure in more
arid areas.
The necessary power to carry out this policy
is already possessed by the authorities, and the
report considers the capital cost would not exceed
£lj million. Expenditure would be spread over the
next fifty years at an average of only £30,000 a year
—about three times that figure in the early years,
tapering-off later. As Mr. Ogilvie puts it: —
This is equal to about one-twentieth of a
penny per lb. on the State wool-dip, whereas a fair
infestation of noogoora burr costs 6d. per lb., and
ordinary preventive treatment for blowfly,
without stock losses, costs more than Id. per lb.
Obviously something must ultimately be done
to reduce the huge loss due to evaporation from
the drains —in some cases up to 90 per cent, of the
volume—but the matter of the greatest immediate
importance, as stressed in the reports, is to ensure
that the residual flow is drawn off in those parts
of the basin where it can do the most good.


NOBODY’S BABY NOW!


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Dose of Election Salts
Dr. Evatt solemnly holds that, in
passing the Communist-party Dissolution
Act, the Menzies-Fadden Government
sought to set-up a “police State” in Aus-
tralia. This was his principal accusation
—the hardest thing he could say against
the present Government at his meeting in
Sydney on Sunday. But he said nothing
about another attempt to establish a
police State in Australia against which
it would have been possible to make out
a much stronger case than against the
Menzies measure—the Fourteen-points
legislation which he himself tried to
sneak on to the statute-book during the
war, and which was modelled on the
Soviet Union Constitution.
Having paid tribute to the unparalleled
strength of world labor, the Doctor next
turned to the fifth-columns which were
“trying to undermine the A.L.P. today”
—that is, trying to undermine Dr. Evatt
—and, led by Mr. Santamaria, to
“destroy the Chifley legend” because
“Mr. Chifley stood for vital Labor prin-
ciples and social democracy”:
These people say that because they don’t
believe in Communism no country in the
world can have it and we should wage
war against countries to stop them
having it.
So he wants to have unity in the “Labor”
party to fight against Australian monopo-
lies —and, of course, the opponents of
Communism. Apparently the Dr. Evatt
who once brought in a bill to defend the
Woomera Rocket Range against the trea-
sonable activities of the Communists has
gone with the wind. The one who has
taken his place is a changeling who, in
some strange way, finds that everything
and everybody opposed to him is also
opposed to Communism.
He has become a danger to Australia,
and it seems in the present state of the
world quite unsafe to have him in the
Constitutionally confidential position of
Leader of the Opposition.
There is talk of an election in Decem-
ber. There almost certainly will be a
general election before the sands run
out for the election of the half-Senate,
which is necessary next year under the
provisions of the present absurd Electoral
Act. With industrial strife looming, with
the Communists climbing back into
power on Dr. Evatt’s willing back, with
all the great nations of the financial world
nervously taking action to stave-off
inflation, and a world competition
developing which threatens Australian
primary-product prices while Australian
wages start rising again, it seems that a
poll can’t be taken too soon.
“Labor” is obviously split to the heart,
judging by the absentees from the Evatt
rally, which was boycotted by 80 per
cent, of State members and by a solid
proportion of Federal members, includ-
ing the Opposition Whip and the Deputy-
Leader in the Senate. And whenever
“Labor” is split Communism creeps in
and takes control. Mr. Menzies should
give the electors the earliest chance pos-
sible to decide for themselves what they
are actually voting for when they vote
for “Labor”—a Communist-controlled
“Labor” party camouflaged by Dr.
Evatt, or just a plain Communist-union
party led by the Doctor.
Results of Geneva
Following the Geneva Conference, the
gestures of the Soviet Union have
divided themselves into two types—bie
and little. *
The little ones have been invitations
to delegations, back-slapping expeditions,
exchange of visits from which the Russian
visitors return far richer than those of
Western countries. While the West
sends with a social objective, the Russians
concentrate in their bodies of visitors as
much technical talent as they will hold.
There are incidents like the release of the
U S. fliers who crashed in 1953 while on
a Korean-war mission, and who were
promptly grabbed and used as propa-
ganda bait—“warmongering spies flying
over Manchurian territory on an aggres-
sive survey-flight of the Chinese Father-
land’s defence in the interests of Wall-
street.” But there have also been naked
acts of brutal murder, like the shooting-
down of the Israeli passenger-aircraft
with all its passengers along the Greek-
Bulgarian border.
It remained for the meeting of the
Supreme Soviet, the so-called “Parlia-
ment of the U.S.S.R., to provide the
first indication of how real or otherwise
was the sincerity of the Kremlin dele-
gates at Geneva. There was no doubt
about official attitude to President Eisen-
hower s plan. Bulganin told the meeting,
which had been called as an extra-
ordinary session to hear the delegates’
report, that the proposal, which involved
an open exchange of military secrets and
the extension to all countries of the right
o f military air-reconnaissance and photo-
graphy, could not have any great
significance.
The Russian scheme remains in essence
what it'always was—gradual percentage-
reduction of armaments, culminating in
the prohibition of the atom- and
hydrogen-bombs.
The percentage - reduction scheme
which Russia favors is calculated to excite
just as much laughter in the West as
the Western scheme excites in Moscow.
Since Russia has devoted itself mainly to
arming for the past 15 years, putting
more than 2,000,000 recruits into con-
scriptive-training every year, it has a
huge pool of fightable gunfodder. And
on a percentage basis it could reduce
%-% with the West to its own advan-
tage.
The view of Salvador de Madariaga,
the Spanish historian, that the West at
Geneva suffered a “serious defeat,” that
the Russian policy amounts merely to a
reversal of method to win the cold war —
attraction instead of repulsion—is gaining
ground. His points are unassailable —
that Russia did not yield on two main
issues—self-determination of the Eastern
European peoples and the question of
Communist activity in the free world.
His comment on the “apologetic
embarrassment” with which these matters
were even mentioned by the Western
delegates is also pertinent; as pertinent
as his peptonised epitome of the out-
come: “Seldom, if ever, in the history of
international communiques was so much
said by so many about so little.”
*
Universities and the People
Students of Melbourne University are
to be congratulated on having the good
sense to reject the proposed “one-day
strike” and a march on Government
House. The inspiration for the one
comes from Communist-dominated trade-
unions and for the other from student
demonstrations in South American
republics. Neither example is worthy of
emulation by young men and women who
aim to become tomorrow’s leaders in the
professions. The proposed action was to
have been taken in protest against an
increase in fees thought to be impend-
ing, but at a stormy meeting the students
decided instead to approach the Uni-
versity Council on the matter.
Melbourne University is not alone in
finding it difficult to balance its budget;
its fellow-institutions in other capitals are
also feeling the financial strain. Govern-
ment grants have not kept pace with
rising costs, and latter-day benefactions
have not been on the scale of some of
the endowments of earlier decades. To
some extent the tendency of the universi-
ties to live a life apart from the rest of
the community has been a contributing
factor in this. People are perhaps less
aware than they should be of the part
played by the universities in national life,
and Governments, accustomed to being
pushed and pulled by this or that
pressure-group, have doled-out ' the
financial grease to the wheels that
squeaked the most.
Apparently it is in recognition of this
weakness in public-relations that Mel-
bourne University has published its first
issue of “Discovery,” a booklet designed
“to show that research in the University
has a silent impact on society.” It is this
silence that has probably reacted to the
disadvantage of the universities in a
world in which every other body is loudly
advertising its own achievements.
“Discovery” does not attempt to cover
all the research activities of Melbourne
University, but four professors, assisted
by excellent photographs, mostly the
work of the university’s visual-aid
department, manage to cover a very wide
field. In the section “Man and Industry”
A. J. Francis, Professor of Civil
Engineering, tells how laboratory-work
has helped in the development of Vic-
toria’s brown coal, of the metallurgy of
rare metals ; how mathematics is helping
the planning of water-supply storages;
of work on soil-chemistry ; of the use
of radioactive isotopes in medicine and
industry. Professor Rubbo, of the
Department of Bacteriology, in “Man and
Medicine,” carries on the story with
examples of the practical application of
research to the tracking-down of the
causes of disease —the typhoid-desiccated-
coconut tie-up of 1953 ; the outbreak of
Murray Valley encephalitis; work in
pathology; in the detection of poisons;
of hypnotic and anti-hypnotic drugs; of
developments in biochemistry, physiology
and genetics.
“Man and Society,” by R. M. Craw-
ford, Professor of History, and “Man
and the Arts,” by Professor A. R.
Chisholm, Professor of French, give
some idea of the work the university is
doing in the humanities and social
sciences and the unsuspected impact these
studies have on the life of the com-
munity. In a foreword Vice-Chancellor
Paton says that
the University sees clearly the need for
basic research and for fundamental creative
work, but it also realises that it has a
responsibility to make immediate and
practicable contributions. This volume
will justify these statements and I trust will
call forth genuine financial and moral
support from our reading public.
In publicising the work of Melbourne
University, “Discovery” does a service to
all Australian universities. All are greatly
in need of publicity and all can well do
with increased “financial and moral
support” from the public.
Unbuckling the Green-belt
Almost every second family in Aus-
tralia has a legend about the land that
grandpa used to own but sold for a song
and which is now worth a small for-
tune. Most of our grandfathers were
apparently very poor judges of land-
values ; other peoples’ grandfathers had
only to come along with a little ready-
cash and they’d hand over the title-deeds
without even dickering about the price.
For their errors of judgment in real-estate
dealings the old folk had only them-
selves to blame ; in those days there were
no forward-planning authorities like
Sydney’s Cumberland County Council
and a green belt merely meant one made
of raw-hide.
Today things are different. The grand-
fathers of tomorrow who own land in
Sydney’s green-belt are not rushed by
eager buyers. They are not permitted to
build on the land they own, and if they
do find a buyer the price offered is only
a fraction of that for similar land outside
the green-belt. And in view of the pub-
licity given to recent land-transactions in
two shires within the County of Cum-
berland, owners of green-belt land are
going to be mighty suspicious of any
offers made for their land.
A few weeks ago it was revealed that
shortly after a land-owner in Sutherland
Shire had sold his property—having been
assured that there was no chance of its
being re-zoned for residential use —he
found that it was being subdivided for
building purposes. The buyer was the
engineer of the Sutherland Shire. Last
week Sydney “Sun” published statutory
declarations relating to land-deals in
Blacktown Shire. Again green-belt land
had been sold after the owner had been
assured there was no hope of its being
released for building purposes and again
the release had come through shortly
after the sale. In this case it was alleged
that the shire-clerk had told the owner
there was no chance of re-zoning and had
offered to put him in touch with a buyer.
This buyer turned out to be the
managing-director of a building-company
which has since built on the land. A
further feature of the Blacktown' deal
was that the Cumberland County Council
had refused to recommend the release
of the land from the green-belt and that
the re-zoning had been done by the direct
act of the Local Government Depart-
ment. The sale-price of the land was
£3500. Its reputed value today is £25,000.
Now if only our grandpa had been
astute enough to buy that land off some-
one else’s grandpa sixty years ago. And
if only we still owned it today. And if
only the Local Government Department
had agreed to unbelt it for us !
(
Nearer and Nearer
While trade-unionism in Australia is
making war on the community, holding
a gun at the head of employers and
demanding more and more wages, with
the inevitable results detrimental to
industry, transport and defence, danger
creeps imperceptibly nearer from the
North, as well as from within. What is
happening is only imperceptible because
of the concentration of attention on the
results here of diversionary tactics.
The Communists in Australia are
surely and rapidly reassuming the control
of industry through the unions, and have,
as well, made their plans in case any
unforeseen move by the Commonwealth
should destroy their first-line organisa-
tion. Their panacea for official inter-
ference is the old one of the “united
front” with “Labor,” which involves
honeycombing of the leadership to the
very highest stratum and the creation of
an underground which appears moderate
and which cannot easily be connected
with Communist organisation, but which
can operate effectively—just as effectively
and with more security than the party
itself under its own name.
The progress of this development can
be read in the snatches of Communist
double-talk and jargon which appear in
the pronouncements of official “Labor,”
even in the utterances of the most august.
Meanwhile, near Australian shores, the
danger closes in rapidly. Indonesia is
out of control so far as civil government
goes. While Dr. Soekarno, the President,
was away in Mecca wooing the Moslem
vote for the elections of September 29
the Army virtually suppressed the
Ministry, threw out its Leftist Minister
for Defence. Dr. Hatta, who was acting
for Soekarno, was told peremptorily—
or so it seemed —to form a new Cabinet,
but three timid gentlemen whom he com-
missioned declined hastily, and the two
leading political parties disagreed about
a method which would allow Hatta to
carry out the task himself.
On Thursday last the Army proved
how little chance its opponents would
have of holding office, by virtually
establishing a dictatorship through the
illegal, but quite effective, arrest of Jan
van Dulken, deputy-chief of Foreign
Exchange Department, who is being
“held for questioning” about corruption
in his department which was said to have
involved £A9O million. Soekarno, return-
ing from Mecca next day, solved his own
problem by the well-known Indonesian
method of “Let George do it.” He merely
announced that he would take formal
leave-of-absence till August 15, and in the
meantime Dr. Hatta could carry the baby.
Even if the Moslem party were to
win at the elections it would not find
itself in absolute control of the situation.
The trade-unions, with their Communist
backing, are very powerful and will put
up a fierce struggle, which might lead
ultimately to insurrection. The Army
is still there to oppose.
Not much farther from Australia, the
new Malayan Government’s first act has
been to announce that it will parley with
the outlaw Communists, and has adopted
the principle that “we must accept the
Malayan Communist party in time.”
Farewell to a Colleague
Charles Shaw —author, bush-balladist,
“Bant Singer” of the Delaney thrillers.
Bulletin staff all-rounder, “Mat’s Mate”
and “Old-timer” of countless pars., as
straight and staunch a little fellow and as
authentic a bit of natural Australia as
you’d come across —died in Sydney late
in the afternoon of August 1, nine days
short of his 55th birthday.
Next morning a trunk-call came
through from the bush ordering a
wreath for him, “preferably wattle.”
Whether or not they had ever met per-
sonally, the caller —contributor “Wippe-
gong”—knew his Charles Shaw. The
expression of bush sentiment could not
have been more right. It was so because,
for one thing, it was exactly what Charles
himself would have done for a fellow-
bush-Australian. It was an exact echo
of one of his strongest characteristics:
that warm kind of bush sentiment was
always close to the surface in him, and
it went deep down.
Also, it was singularly right because—
though actually he was city-born, in Mel-
bourne, on August 10, 1900, and though
it was back in the ’thirties, after some 20
years of bush battling from when he was
orphaned at 14, that he found the Sydney
answer to the great Australian alterna-
tives, and had not had to face them
again, giving the bush-work away for
keeps and earning a crust, plus overseas-
publication garnishings, with a fountain-
pen and a typewriter—Charles himself
remained recognisable and unchangeable
bush to the end ; and the pen might have
been a kookaburra-quill and the type-
writer shaped from a mallee-root.
The city life neither polished nor tamed
him. Its politics and rush and rackets,
though he wrote scornfully about them,
left him more puzzled than anything
else; interesting him more as a doubtful
spectator than as a crusader. When he
talked about them he used to end in a
bewilderment, as things beyond an
honest bloke’s comprehension. He wrote
easiest and best about the bush. That, as
Charles saw it, was at any rate clean
and blokes were mostly matey —and what
more d’you want?
But his pen covered the continent—
“from Cape York to the Leeuwin,” to use
an expression of his own. No one in
Australia resented more the bureaucratic
restrictions on freedom of inter-State
o Continued on next page)


transport; Section 92 of the Constitution
to him was almost an eleventh Command-
ment. And, incidentally, when he wrote
of State borders one always felt he had
in mind the River Murray, which, as a
youth, he knew so well.
Last year, on the strength of his over-
seas book-earnings, he had his first look
at the world at large, and came back
liking Australia better than ever. He
could have walked out of The Bulletin
office on the morning of August 1
and gone off again to any of his
old outback haunts and occupations, and
they’d have accepted him there as one
of themselves —given him a fencing-job
up along the Big River; taken him on
again as cook in the droving outfit; put
a few bob in the hat he carted round up
Gawler way while his mate Emil the
Dane entertained them per mouth-organ ;
given him time off to go down in his
brand-new city-made suit to back King
Ingoda when the son of Comedy King
won the Melbourne Cup; or joined him
humping the swag- when things were
tough, taking on any old job they might
have the luck to strike west of sunset.
There was a good deal of all that
authentic Australian background in his-
Delaney thrillers (better appreciated in
the book-reading, perhaps, than in serial-
publication) ; there was a whole lot of
it in his week-to-week journalism—as
when, for example, he’d take such a sub-
ject as the odd and multitudinous jobs a
bush copper cops, and find the item,
because of its authenticity of setting and
feeling, reprinted in the John Hops’ own
journal and very widely in the Australian
country press as w'ell.
And years before Australian politi-
cians, public men and public had got on
to what it meant, he was hammering
away on the then-unheard-of theme of
erosion of the good earth as a real threat
hereabouts: this, too, was typical of
Charles Shaw, along with such qualities
as his bush character, his bush generosity
and the gameness implicit' in his career—
he saw the threat as the wasting-away of
some of this Australia; of some of him-
self, really. He was exactly that kind of
bush-dyed national Australian. The
wreath of wattle, the exactly right tribute
to him.
POLITICAL POINTS
Evatt at the Sunday-night rally: “The
Labor Party does not exist as an instru-
ment for the use of certain people.” Oh,
Doc.!
• •
Cahill appointed a committee of two
Ministers, two public servants and two
members of the Trades and Labor Coun-
cil to “examine the whole aspects of the
basic-wage question,” and in particular
the matter of whether quarterly adjust-
ments should be restored. Eric Hearn-
shaw, Liberal M.L.A. for Eastwood,
asked permission to give evidence before
the committee. Chairman Moloney,
M.L.C., refused, saying “This is not a
basic-wage inquiry.” What is it, then?
• •
International goodwill is all very well,
but it hardly justifies a Sydney paper’s
calling the British Prime Minister
“Anthong.”
• •
Victorian Government is financing a
trip to America for two officials of the
Shop Assistants’ Federation to study the
working of staggered hours of trading.
Staggering has been suggested as a device
for easing the problem of peak-hour
traffic on public transport. In the past
the S.A.F. has strongly opposed the idea ;
Transport Minister Warner thinks a little
firsthand experience of how it works out
in practice may make a difference to the
union’s viewpoint.
• ©
Ex-Prime Minister Bruce is Chancellor
of the National University at Canberra,
and now his former Treasurer Earle
Page has become first Chancellor of the
University of New England.
• •
Bulganin has turned-down Eisen-
hower’s proposals for exchange of mili-
tary secrets. Reporting this to the
Soviet Parliament he said that aerial
photographs of defence installations in
the U.S.S.R. and U.S.A. would not give
satisfactory results because the terrain
of the two countries “would permit
camouflage of anything desired.” But
surely he doesn’t mean that the peace-
loving Soviet would try to hide any-
thing?
• •
Australia was not alone in seeing a
favorable trade-balance in 1953-54 change
to an adverse one in 1954-55; New
Zealand’s deficit for the year ended June
30 was £42 million compared with a
surplus of £25 million the previous year.
But that doesn’t make the blot in our
copybook any smaller.
• •
“Labor” Governments in Queensland
have consistently refused to fall into line
with other States and make use of
Federal electoral rolls, though by doing so
they would put a stop to perennial
charges of roll-stuffing made against
them. After complaints about the Bris-
bane City Council elections the Attorney-
General ordered a check on the rolls in
18 metropolitan electorates. This has
resulted in the removal from the rolls of
7522 names —apparently those of electors
who have died or left the city. Opposi-
tion-leader Nicklin wants to know
whether the rolls for other electorates—
there are 75 seats in the Assembly—are
in a similar condition.
It has been a wry joke in Brisbane for
years that everyone in Toowong cemetery
votes “Labor,” and the gag is repeated,
with local variations, in every town in
the north.
• •
Dr. McNair Scott, an American
authority on virus diseases, isn’t keen on
the Salk polio-vaccine. He said in
Sydney:—
I think Australia would be wise to let the
United States be the guinea-pig with the
Salk vaccine It has a narrow margin
between being dangerous and being effec-
tive It might be made safer by changing
the strain of polio virus in the vaccine, but
we do not know what that will do to its
effectiveness.
Dr. Scott, who will have discussions on
the subject with Sir Macfarlane Burnet
of the Walter and Eliza Hall Research
Institute, remarked that the vaccine was
“such an emotional subject” in America.
It has been that here, too. When the
discovery was first announced emotional
“experts” and publicists abused Earle
Page, the Federal Government and the
health authorities for not being ready to
inoculate every child in Australia at a
moment’s notice. Those critics have been
very quiet lately.
• •
Seems the only subjects on which all
nations can agree are the ones that are
“out of this world.”
• •
For £lOOO Victorians are being
promised a five-roomed concrete home,
“almost fully assembled,” by their Hous-
ing Commission, subject to Government
approval. The commission will supply
stumps, erect walls, place roof-timber in
position and tile it and package the floor-
ing timber, leaving the spouting to be
added, ceilings to be plastered and fittings
in the bathroom and kitchen to be
installed by the delighted owner himself
or by hired labor. “It would help young
couples to acquire their own homes at
reasonable cost,"” says chairman Davey.
The total cost is estimated at £2200.
Sounds good ; but so did the £lOOO dream-
home erected in Fitzroy Gardens amidst
a spate of Commonwealth and State
Government oratory at the beginning of
the housing crisis. The same house
couldn’t be bought today under £3500.
"TOREADOR! TOR-E-A-DOR!"
When end-of-session time comes round,
particularly at Christmas-time, Aus-
tralian politicians tend to get sentimental
towards each other, even to the extent
of saying kind things about political
opponents. But it isn’t usual for them to
burst into song, as did U.S. Congressmen
last week on the last sitting-day for
1955. Members joined in a chorus of
“Moonlight and Roses,” some rendered
parlor tricks, a page-boy (!) sang “The
Lord’s Prayer” and another “The Face
on the Bar-room Floor.” Perhaps Can-
berra will yet hear Bob and Bert in the
vocal duet “The More We Are Together.”
The House of Commons still has vivid
memories of a day in 1945 when Labor
members, jubilant at their election vic-
tory, rose in their places and sang “The
Red Flag.” Many of the singers would
now like to forget the performance.
• •
There’s a murky smog hanging over
Sydney’s green-belt.
• •
When Sydney’s master-bakers were
ordered under reintroduced price-control
to reduce the price of bread by a
ha’penny a loaf their spokesman said
bakers would be forced to buy cheaper-
quality flour, and that this would result
in a lowering of the standard of bread.
So it can get lower!
e • <
A roneoed-sheet called “Single Purpose”
and “the official organ of the combined
naval establishments disputes committee,
Sydney,” complains about “the silence
of the press and radio on our dispute.”
It describes the activities of the com-
mittee of management. One portion
reads: —
The Relief and Welfare Committee
visited small farms round the Pendle Hill
district; Maltese and Australians cultivate
these selections. Committee reports
response from Australians was not good,
but Maltese people gave vegetables and
eggs. Also, £8 10s. was donated. One
Maltese woman whose husband died three
weeks ago has six children and no farm,
could not afford money or vegetables, but
invited the six members of the Relief and
Welfare Committee to a good lunch.
So the committee seeks publicity? Well,
then. A band of six husky strikers drive
out to Pendle Hill, descend upon a
Maltese woman, widowed only three
weeks, with no farm and six children to
support. She probably knows no more
about the merits of the strike than the
man in the moon. But the six welfare men
sit down to a good lunch! To quote
another section of the committee’s
report: “They deserve special commenda-
tion for a fine display of leadership and
trade-union consciousness.”
• •
Although Queensland grows most of
Australia’s tobacco crop the State’s
tobacco - manufacturing industry has
slumped 60 per cent, since 1952. In that
year 10 factories produced 500,0001 b.;
this year’s output will be about 150,0001 b.,
from four factories. Main reasons given
for the drop are competition from south-
ern factories and a decline in the number v
of smokers who “roll their own.”
• •
Trade-publicity in the U.K. is to cost
the Commonwealth a quarter of a million
in the next year, including £166,000 just
approved for the first stage of the pro-
gramme. 'The idea is to meet the market-
ing situation which has developed in
Britain under the new and keenly
competitive trader-to-trader conditions.
There will be displays, demonstrations,
“Australia Weeks” and similar publicity
moves, mainly aimed at increasing the
demand for Australian butter, cheese,
eggs, wine, dried and canned fruits. These
products at present yield about £lOO
million a year on the British market. An
increase would be good for the producers
—and for Australia’s trade-balance.
• ®
“Wusslean”: If anything was needed
to convince the Victorian Government
that it should heed the requests of citizens’
organisations for a metropolitan trans-
port authority, the announcement that
from July 28 to August 13 both trams and
buses would run along Bourke-street
should have done it. Traffic conditions
on this route, which traverses the busiest
shopping areas in the city proper and
adjacent suburbs, were bad enough when
the buses alone operated, and were
worsened by the advent of the trams ;
with both plying private transport is
virtually pushed off the road. Cynics
aver that the buses have been brought
back by the Tramways Board in case
the new “noiseless” trams break down
again, as has occurred twice already in
the few weeks they have been running.
• •
The Doc. is rapidly becoming as big
an asset to the Libs, as Lang used to be
to the U.A.P. Every time he opens his
mouth he puts a few more votes in
Menzies’s box.
• •
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne tram-users
can get some consolation from the great
success of the Hong Kong tram-service.
Unlike Melbourne’s, the trams that
meander about and clamber the slopes
of that rocky island actually make a
profit—last year £395,000. They carry
more than 140 million passengers a year,
claimed to be a world record. Each
Melbourne tram packs-in a quarter of a
million sardines a year, the Hong Kongers
a million. Chinese are as fat and thin,
hard and soft, and have as many corns
on their feet as the citizens of Melbourne,
but apparently they have more
endurance.
• •
When someone spread a report that
the Victorian Government was about to
introduce round-the-clock trading-hours
for petrol-stations a spokesman for the
trade said dolefully that this would add
a shilling a gallon to the price of petrol.
Acting-Premier Rylah replied that trad-
ing-hours were being examined, but that
the Government had never planned a
24-hour service. He added that trading-
hours had been extended in N. S. Wales,
yet no extra charge had been found
necessary there.
• •
“In the ACT”: What with warnings
from the Prime Minister and Treasurer
and pleadings by pensioners and others it
looks as if the average taxpayer is being
nicely conditioned to expect nothing at
all from the Budget. In my club in the
evening I sit at a table where all the
other members are either on the public
payroll or on public-service superannua-
tion. When I reflect on how many more
beers I could afford if I didn’t have to
contribute towards the upkeep of them
all I’m often tempted to pass my turn
to shout.
• •
Delayed by its author’s illness, the first
volume of Harry Truman’s memoirs will
go on sale in Kansas City on October 12 ;
the second will be published in February.
“Life” magazine will serialise the
memoirs.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
'THEATRE quiz: How far back is a
back-stall? When does a front-stall
cease to be front? These days you’ll dis-
locate your eyeballs staring vertically up
at the screen from a “back-stall.” Con-
versely, at a flesh-and-blooder, hearing-
aids and binoculars are indispensables
for some “front-stalls.” —“Viper.”
“Nonnel”: The breakfast-announcer
at 2NZ (Inverell, N.S.W.) announced
dramatically that the North-West mail
was running on time. He paused, repeated
it with emphasis—and then played a re-
cording of raucous laughter that he uses
to touch-off his morning wisecrack. It
was the first time that the old lady had
been on time since the February floods.
Only a flash in the pan, though. She
clocked-in 17 minutes late the following
morning.
❖ * *
“J.D.W.”: Parking-meters are steadily
invading New Zealand’s bigger cities.
Only canny Dunedinites fight back. Two
meters have been wrenched ( from their
steel standards in the heart of the city
and gone missing. But Dunedin is staid
as well as canny. “This type of vandalism
will not be tolerated,” declared a City
Father. “Vandalism!” said an unofficial
Dunedinite. “What a way to speak of
thrift!”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Justin Thyme”: For “Quondong’s”
information regarding the term “spin”
for a £5 note (B. 27/7/’55). Some years
ago, when I took my weekly soaking in
the eighteen-footers, we dubbed the note
a “spinnaker,” denoting something extra,
for none of us included a fiver in his
weekly wage, and to possess one certainly
seemed something extra. So “spin” may
have originated in this way. The £1
note was a “toadskin” or a “froggy” ; as
for the tenner, I could have hurled a
real brick at the chap who beat me to
the first one I ever saw, as it lay flutter-
ing on the front steps of the George-
street branch of the ’Wales. He called it
a b miracle.
♦J* ♦*+ ■>£♦
“Poppa”: Newest sink for pocket-
money is red rubber moulds of animals.
They pour plaster-of-Paris all over the
bathroom and some of it gets into the\
moulds and hardens, and with luck the
rubber-moulds can be peeled off leaving
the dog, panda, sheep, or squirrel to be
painted with water-colors. When they
have sixteen similar dogs, pandas, sheep
and squirrels scraping scratches on the
table and the newly-polished cedar
cabinet they exchange the dog-, sheep-,
panda-, or squirrel-moulds for Peter’s,
Geoffrey’s, Jimmy’s and Reg’s newly
hatched chicken (very difficult), Toby-
mug, Merino-ram, seal —it looks as
though there will never be any end to it.
❖, ❖ ❖
“Recla”: A Sydney judge recently
censured a woman for having short hair
and wearing slacks. He declared it was
not womanly. Would the accused have
been in contempt if she had asked his
honor if it were manly to appear in
public in a long-haired wig and a flowing-
gown?
❖ <♦ ❖
“Llehsioidar”: Although hospital man-
agements in Bananaland still believe in
the Debbil-debbil system of driving the
evil spirits causing one’s ailments away
with roaring loudspeakers in every ward
going from 6 a.m. till 10 p.m., the Queens-
land Government Railways still allow one
to snooze, relax or otherwise make one’s
“How do they feel in the saddle ?”
self at ease without being earbashed in
their super-comfort trains, the Sun-
lander, Inlander, Midlander and West-
lander. Here’s hoping they don’t get
any ideas from the N.S.W. Railways’
Cooma-Sydney Express (“Metralia,” B.
29/6/’55). The excursion-boats in
Queensland’s ports might take a hint that
silence is golden. Public-address systems
may have their uses, but it’s generally
abuses.
Bernard Manning: Apropos the cover-
picture of the church at England’s Mel-
bourne (B. 18/5/’55); I am a native of
thereabouts, and when J. C. Williamson
brought me out in 1926 for their Gilbert
and Sullivan season, I was, as one of their
principals, invited by the then Lord
Mayor of Melbourne (Sir George Wales)
“I 'card.”
to an after-theatre party in the mayoral
rooms at the Town Hall. There I talked
to Cr. Nettlefold, who told me he was
taking a trip “home” in the near future.
I told him that by no means should he
miss visiting the original Melbourne. He
didn’t know that there was such a place.
He went, and heard the bells of St.
Michael’s —only four —and was so im-
pressed by the beauty of the countryside
and the sound of the bells that he pre-
sented four more bells to make up the
full peal, the octave. On V.E.-day, Mel-
bourne, Australia, heard the peal wel-
coming the glad news of victory from
little Melbourne, Derbyshire. It might
be of interest to readers to know that
the name Melbourne originated from the
fact that there was (and is) a Mill on the
Bourne. Hence Melbourne.
❖ ❖
“Allan B.”: Melbourne’s junior
Chamber of Commerce members, as part
of their road-courtesy week in August,
will paint glaring 12-foot scarlet crosses
on crossroads where death became per-
manent. The sedate city has also had on
display on prominent corners stacks of
smashed cars lined up in a bunch to show
what our cars could look like unless we
are careful. In Sydney, these are known
as car-auctions.
<£♦ +J+
“Alma”: Oh, come, come, “Doynest”
(B. 20/7/’55), let’s have our innocent
fun! You must admit that “lingerie,”
however pronounced, seems to hint at
silks and satins and lacy-what-have-yous,
whilst “underwear” positively prickles
with the good, woolly, down-to-earthness
of combinations and virtue.
* ❖ *>
“Collar”: Apropos “O’Johnno” and
the turning-away of rabbit-skins, etc.,
from the new Launceston automatic-
exchange building (B. 27/7/’55), it is a
remarkable coincidence that at the same
time in Hobart, and in similar circum-
stances, tradesmen are turning away
frogskins from would-be customers.
Alterations being made on the ground-
floor of the old Commonwealth Bank,
next-door to the G.P.O. and now the
G.P.O. annexe, are interrupted daily by
potential clients trying to transact bank
business, from deposits to the opening of
new accounts. So far as is known all
“deposits” have been knocked-back by
the workmen. This, despite the oblitera-
tion of all Commonwealth Bank signs, a
large notice on the door indicating
removal, and the occupation 12 months
ago by the Commonwealth Bank of its
new million-pound premises amid a fan-
fare of publicity.
4 + 4
“Chevroford”: I see that Mrs. E. Hart,
of the A.L.P., has asked Victorian Acting-
Premier Rylah to get women included on
juries in shoplifting cases or in cases
where women claimed damages following
a car-accident, because of their “special
knowledge, intuitive or acquired.”
Women jurymen may of course “acquire”
knowledge of shoplifting by shoplifting,
but I haven’t seen any more evidence of
intuition in women than in men. Gener-
ally women are more careful drivers
than men, but they react in a crisis in
much the same way. It was a woman who
drove a car into a Melbourne garage
stuffed with £5000 models, stuck her
head out of the window and shouted to
a mechanic, “Have you a fire-extinguisher
—my car’s on fire.”
❖ ❖
“Baksac”: “O. K. Lee,” who spent
several days packing and crating his
goods and chattels for transport, then
found that the furniture-removalists pulled
them all out again and packed them
their own way (B. 20/7/’55), was more
fortunate than an English radio-comedian
whose name escapes me. He packed all
his wife’s crockery in a box, labelled it
very conspicuously “China” —and never
saw it again. The removalists put it on a
slow boat.
“Beejay”: In Geelong (Vic.) the Beak
had to deal with a philatelist presented
on four counts of having affixed used
postage-stamps to letters for postage.
The letters had been self-addressed covers
for the Cocos Island mail. Soaked £20.
& +jf
T REJOICE that research-work in
beautification is at last yielding con-
crete results.
One application of a new lipstick due
on the market shortly will last 12 hours
without retouching, and is completely
kissproof. Males who prefer mush to
drinking beer will save much time and
mineral-turps.
Doubt has not yet been resolved
whether the flavors enjoyed by addicts
in the past will be lost to them in the new
kissproofs.
The use of fish-scales in cosmetics is
undoubtedly a forward step, though hus-
bands who are more concerned with the
practical side of female beautification—
that is, in paying for it—will uot be
satisfied until the less-expensive by-
product of mullet-gut is available as an
ingredient.
A new liquid rouge is'now available,
an achievement that can only increase
misgivings among husbands who see an
extra chore for them — spray-painting
missus, with the concomitant tasks or
gumming-up her mouth (in itself no bad
thing), plugging her lugs, etc.
Lastly, there is to be a compressed
face-powder. This one is indeed a puzzle.
Surely nobody but a hard-faced blonde
would want to rub her dial over with a
powder-Zw'cA: /
KEEP IT CLEAN
“American industrial-chemist, Mr. G. W.
Boyd, guest-speaker at the seventh national
convention of the Australian drycleaning-
industry in Sydney, said Australia was lucky to
be four years behind America, as the time-lag
saved Australians from having their clothes
spoked by unsuccessful new processes.”
Time-lags,
Says Mr. G.' W. Boyd,
American authority on cleaning rags,
Are why Australian clothes are not
destroyed.
For when the Yanks develop a new
process
And hurry-up to try it on the dog
Dry-cleaners in Australia hold their
bosses,
Awaiting an approving epilogue.
O American public, you are the buffer
for us:
Your coats protect us from your
chemists' tricks!
O American public, how you suffer for
us:
Your pants take all the kicks!
However, I can think of one machine
That somehow has evaded the attacker,
More true than “dry,” more absolute than
“clean”—
I speak of Zilch’s Acme Button-
Cracker.
With this I couple Krug’s De-Nappifier
That seeks out every thread and lays it
bare,
Removing, on a brush of sharpened wire,
The nap that knits the ravelled sleeve,
with care.
I also think of Chugal’s Mirraneat
That takes the silver cloud inside the
lining
And spreads it on the elbows and the seat
And leaves them permanently shining.
So, if I might be so bold,
I’d say to Mr. Boyd, "It would be
beaut.
If American dry-cleaners experimented
by giving the public new clothes
for old,
And ours (not waiting four years but
taking a risk on public approval)
followed suit.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


of Melbourne’s nicest radio-
announcers opened his mouth and
put four feet in it reporting upon the
thriving condition of the Lucke
“quadrupeds” at Bundaberg.—“H.K.”
❖ »*♦
“Recla”: Well-aware that his cream
trousers had not kept pace with his ex-
panding figure, the old boy was rolling
his bowls up very cautiously. This battle
between fat and flannel was not lost on
the club wag, who picked up his polish-
ing-rag and waited. Zzz-i-p! went the
rag when the old chap bent over to
deliver a ball. A hand slid round and felt
the rear seam. No. It was apparently all
right. But another bend and another zip
of the rag sent the bowler scuttling to
a secluded spot to investigate. He re-
turned shortly with a bewildered look on
his face, and no doubt he is still
wondering.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Clyne”: “8.C.A.” (B. 20/7/’55) is
right an article in a London paper
some years ago pointed out that there was
no such position as Lady Mayoress.
There were, however, no cities men-
tioned as exceptions, as “8.C.A.” affirms.
There is a story of an excited usher who
announced the Lord Mayor of Sydney
and his wife arriving at a function as
The Lord and Lady Mayoress.”
“ Pearls , yes—from Woolworth’s.”
“Benbow”: Former Sydney water-
front identity Captain Harry Fahr told
me that, as a boy, he had been becalmed
in the sailing-ship Ben Cruachan within
sight of another windjammer, to which
a visit was paid by ship’s-boat. The Ben
Cruachan boat’s-crew walked for’ard to
fraternise with the other crew. One was
the carpenter, who met the other car-
penter working at his bench in the waist.
Unknown to each other, they turned out
to be both Finns, both from the same
town, both from the same street, both
from the same house, both from the
same family. Brothers, in fact (B.
27/7/’55), who had not previously met.
A puff of wind filled the sails and they
parted again.
❖ ❖
“G’pa’s Understudy”: I saw part of
the shooting of the 1918 “Sentimental
Bloke” film in the Eastern Market, Mel-
bourne, where Doreen inspected the
brums at Steeny Isaacs’ stall, an episode
from “The Intro.” Steeny was the late
Alex Kerr, who had a picture-framing
business in the market adjacent to the
brummy-stall. He was no mean artist.
His “farewell shot” to every purchaser
at his shop was “Hope you like it when
you get it home.” It is safe to assume
these were his words to Doreen after his
sale at. the brummy-stall. My memory
of the occasion is heightened by the clean
artist’s-smock Alex wore for the
occasion.
• • • • • ®
“R.C.P.”: The Bloke in the second
“Sentimental. Bloke” film was Cecil Scott,
who at the time was appearing on the
Tivoli circuit.
& »> *j»
“C.P.G.”: Shifting statues (B. 6/7/’55)
brings to mind an attempt to shift the
Peter Lalor memorial from the main
street of Ballarat (Vic.). At 2 a.m. on
April 7, 1916, an explosion alarmed near-
by residents, and it was found that the
coping-stone had been shifted and part
of one Lalor foot blasted off. Some weeks
later an Italian was arrested, tried and
found guilty, but medical evidence proved
that he wasn’t sane, and he later died at a
mental-home. The portion of Lalor’s
foot is now an exhibit at the town
museum.
❖ -> *
“A.C.T.”: It would be interesting to
learn how much foreign currency has
gained from philatelists as a result of the
pretty-frequent changes of stamps these
days. Another nation which hopes to get
something from this easy and profitable
market is Indonesia, which celebrates the
10th anniversary of its declaration of
independence on August 17 and on that
date will issue stamps and first-day covers.
The stamps will be in denominations of
15, 35, 50 and 75 cents (approximately
lid., 3jd„ sd. and 7id.).
*t* *X*
“Dicky”: “Metralia” (B. 20/7/’55) is
a bit off the beam about gondolas. They
are more like taxis, and strictly for the
wealthy; most of the ones I saw in
Venice were occupied by American
tourists, as the musical and likeable
bandits that ferry them ask about £1
sterling an hour for their services, which
is beyond many wanderers’ pockets. The
vaporetto i$ the “tram” of Venice, being
a cumbersome barge-cwm-gondola affair,
holding 20 or more people and ferried
across by one man. Although the larger
canals have efficient and fast ferries and
motor-boats as a means of transport, the
vaporetto remains my favorite means of
travel in Venice. Passengers arrange
themselves along narrow seats around
the edge, sometimes sitting on each other’s
knees, clinging round each other’s necks,
and often getting more than a little damp
in the passage across the canal, since
the driver always loads his vehicle
perilously close to the Plimsoll-line;
someone breathes garlic down your neck,
someone bursts into song, if you are
female (and obviously a British tourist)
someone will probably pinch you and
regard your reactions with amused
detachment. The whole trip is sur-
rounded by a cheerful friendliness —the
cheapest thing in entertainment and
transport combined that you are likely to
find anywhere.
❖ * ❖
“Zorok”: The chief of the Seminole
Indians has petitioned President Eisen-
hower to decide who’s to bring-up five
motherless Seminole children. The
President’s Solomon act is necessary
because tribal custom prescribes that chil-
dren “follow the clan of the mother” but
the father wants them instead. What
intrigued me, though, was the informa-
tion that Pop, a Seminole, “has adopted
white men’s ways and makes a living
wrestling alligators.” Wrestling alliga-
tors! White men’s ways, indeed!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hallcraft”: Advertisement in a Mel-
bourne paper: —>
Just for You —We offer the largest
selection of wedding gowns (and veils)
in Melbourne. Gowns from £25 to £5O!
Bridesmaids as low as £l5.
This explains the plight of the heroine
of the popular pre-World-War-I song,
“Why Am I Always the Bridesmaid?”
Obviously, she was a low bridesmaid.
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.D.W.”: If a bloke couldn’t attend
a public function to do a spiel you used
to sigh with relief. But when C. G. E.
Harker, a member of the New Zealand
Parliament, could not be present to open
a new post-office in his electorate he
recorded a speech in Wellington and
had it played at the ceremony. Posterity
will see this century as that in which
science ended the world-of-the-lucky-
break.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Retired Volt”: Was interested to read
(B. 27/7/’55) that the spiritual respon-
sibility for Cocos Island has been
assumed by the Archbishop of Perth,
and that an archdeacon who rowed for
Cambridge has flown across to give the
160 parishioners uplift. When I was on
Cocos—before two wars, the Emden, the
Sydney, the Japs, radio and air-transport
had swept the lonely atoll into the stream
of modern progress—the spiritual respon-
sibility was vested in the superintendent
of the cable-station on Pulau
Tikus (alias Rat Island),
much as it is vested- in the
captain of a liner. His duties
were light. So far as I know
he never had held a service,
except to splice the main-
brace ; he never had occasion
to splice humans since no
women, white or native, were
permitted on the island,
though some were said to
have occasionally swum
across the lagoon from Gov-
ernor Ross’s islands. In the
station-library there were
several shelves of ecclesias-
tical literature, including
Bibles, prayerbooks and hymnbooks
sent out by head-office in London, but
they were heavily outnumbered by
Rationalist reprints, left behind by a
cableman who was a passionate mission-
ary for that ungodly doctrine. He was
the prime mover in a petition sent to
London in which the staff complained
of the very bad way the Chinese washer-
man dealt with their dress-shirts, and
requesting the company to allocate to the
island six Japanese laundresses young
enough to stand the climate. The peti-
tion was rejected. It is a great relief to
know that the spiritual darkness of Cocos
is to be lifted.
“Melbn”: Melbourne expects more
than 800 journalists from 83 countries for
the Olympiad, plus 140 photographers
and 140 broadcasters. The Russian
press-team will number 50; the British
and U.S. about the same. At the M.C.G.,
the centre of the frenzy, there will be
3000 phone-lines, leaking out telecom,
and overseas phonograms and picture-
grams and possibly television. In addi-
tion to the overseas 800, about 1000
Australian and N.Z. newsmen are ex-
pected. The Bungs of 80 hotels have
been approached to give them nourish-
ment and welcome. The organiser is
Ted Doyle, one-time editor of the
“Argus” and one of the triumvirate who,
over a cup of tea at Melbourne Town
Hall, came to the original decision to get
the Games for Melbourne. He was grow-
ing potatoes in retirement when called
from the plough to take on the press side
of the Olympics.
“P.0.M.C.”: References to pennies on
ledges remind me that while playing swy
in a deserted steelyard outside Charleroi,
Belgium, in 1918, I spun two pennies up,
but only one came down —the other
balanced flat on a small power-cable sus-
pended 15ft. over our heads. They barred
that spin, and I tailed ’em next time.
♦jf +s»
“J.H.”: I thought we had everything
—fruitologists, morticians, beauticians,
cemetery-groundsmen (“gravediggers” to
Hamlet) —but I have ju6t caught up with
“lube-operators” (offered £2O a week,
plus overtime and free uniforms), wanted
by a company to glamorise the oil-can
and the sump.
•£♦ ♦!*
“W'illpar”: Described as Australia’s
“rebel” chair-designer, Mr. Featherston
is quoted as saying: “The ideal chair is
a negative of the human body. Where
the body has bulges, the chair should
have dips, and vice versa.” And so to a
chair for every member of the family,
discarded and replaced like clothing as
the positive no longer fits into the bulge
of die negative. A press-photographer
calls on a suburban home. “Your
daughter,” he reports, “has won the Miss
Body contest. Is she available to be
photographed?” “No, but that’s her
chair,” says Mum. “Wow,” says the
photographer, “ what a body! I’ll make
a cast for posterity.”
❖ * ♦>
“Qwert”: A big Sydney firm was fined
for having a faulty lift. Automatic lifts
are the ones that need checking. Hopped
into one the other day, shut the door,
and down she sped. Since that was my
direction, I offered no defence. At the
third floor it stopped with a bang and a
demure office-girl, carrying two teapots
brimful of hot tea, stepped in. She
yelled as I almost pressed one of the
safety-gadgets, but relaxed as we des-
cended towards the ground-floor. Here
the lift made a sudden decision and shot
skywards. It then bounced us up and
down an embarrassing number of times,
and, with tea spilling everywhere and a
greenhorn at the controls, it was a case
of laugh while you can. Miraculously on
terra firma again, the girl confided: “This
is a funny place.” But I prefer my vaude-
ville-turns at the theatre.
AN OPEN GO
“Diners Cannot-be condemned wholly for the
serious decline noted in table-manners in
public. The conditions operating in so many
restaurants today are partly to blame.” —Radio
speaker.
See that diner over there,
On his shoe-sole strop his knife;
It's not his fault the damn’ thing’s
so blunt, is it?
He leans over in his chair,
Snatches menu from his wife —
Well, the waitress gives him little
time to quiz it.
With both elbows sticking out,
And his head down, watch him hew
So savagely, and making heavy
weather
Of the fob. He’s not a lout,
But he has got to subdue
That gristled, muscled slab of sable
leather !
Should he reach across your bows
To retrieve the distant salt,
Using an arm that’s almost telescopic,
Don’t, I beg you, knit your brows,
Thinking this a grievous fault —
It could be that he thinks that you’re
myopic.
When he blows into his tea,
And creates a little storm
(He’s already poured the stuff into
his saucer),
It is probable that he
Merely hopes to get you warm —
Don’t just assume he’s coarse and
getting coarser.
Men who bang their forks and spoons
With a din to lift the roof
In order that they may get some
attention,
Aren’t to be condemned as goons;
They afford no living proof
Of public-eating manners in declen-
sion.
They, and those who soak up soup
In the best bravura way,
Fortissimo, and with exhilaration,
Form, indeed, a worthy troupe.
For you must admit that they
Do help to drown the inane conver-
sation !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERIONAL ITEMS
Wanted, maths, prof., very long experi-
ence, conscious of the subject’s importance
in this scientific age, with qualifications
likely to endear him to students. Thus
Queensland University could advertise if
it hopes for a man to replace, in kind,
Eugene Francis Simonds, just vacated
the Mathematics Chair up north after
ably filling it for almost half a century.
The other day turned 70, a Ph.D. of
Columbia (U.S.), and one-time lecturer
at Illinois University over there, the prof,
learnt his own two-times-table at Glen
Innes (N.S.W.) and his differential calcu-
lus at Sydney Uni. He’s brother to the
Most Rev. Justin Simonds, appointed
Archbishop of Hobart in 1937, first Aus-
tralian-born R.C. Archbishop.
• •
Succeeding Vice-Admiral J. P. L. Reid
as Flag Officer (Air) in the Mediter-
ranean and 2 i/c of the Fleet there, Vice-
Admiral M. Richmond is a New Zea-
lander who joined the Royal Navy in
1918. He was a destroyerman in War 11,
covered the Norway and Dunkirk with-
drawals, and as commander of an escort-
group prowled the Atlantic and up to
Murmansk.
GEORGE ALEXANDER BELL, Bris-
bane Rotarian, prominent in uniting the
National and Queensland National Banks
in 1948, now Queensland manager of the
National. Plays golf at Royal Queens-
land, where his medical-student son is
junior champion.
When Ralph Hart left Australia In
1951 to “take over Europe” for Colgate-
Palmolive someone raised the question,
“How’ll he make out with Eisenhower?”
(“Ike,” a fellow-American, at that time
having a job more or less covering the
same territory, though not in the same
line of business). At this distance there
are unfilled gaps in the story, but it is
a historical fact that in 1952 Eisenhower
suddenly quit Europe and decided to run
for President of the United States.
Columnists and other political experts
are now pondering the significance of a
new 'coincidence: Ralph Hart has quit
Europe to become president of the
Colgate-Palmolive International in New
York. No doubt the matter can well be
left with Winchell. In Australia Ralph
is well remembered as an invaluable
man in a golf fourball to pair-off with
the lowest marker of the four in order to
make it fair to the other side.
• •
“Uramao”: Revisiting his native New
Zealand, Fraser McKenzie, Professor of
French Language and Literature at Bir-
mingham University, a post he diversi-
fies by hoisting himself temporarily every
second year into the Chair of French at
the University of Montpellier, where he
holds an honorary doctorate. After War
II he was the first foreigner to receive a
State doctorate at the Sorbonne. The
French Government, recognising his ser-
vices in promoting goodwill between
Britain and France, awarded him the
Legion of Honor a year ago. Son of one
of the first professors at Victoria College
University, he will put in a year tutoring
at that institution.
• • r
John Gilbert Castieau, reckoning 40-
odd years of public service enough, is
gettihg out to grass. The past nine years
Commonwealth Public Service Arbitra-
tor, he’s a lawyer by training, and before
he took to Solomonising was assistant
Parliamentary draftsman in the Attorney-
General’s Department. Sixty-two.
Judith Anderson, due to open an Aus-
tralian season in Sydney in October, is
one of those few actresses who allow their
age to appear in Who’s Whoses. Bom in
Adelaide, she made her first appearance
in “The Royal Divorce” at Sydney’s
Theatre Royal in 1915, returned wearing
‘The Green Hat” 15 years later, and has
since been seen many times on the screen,
notably as the weird housekeeper in
“Rebecca.” The rest of her career has
been spent in New York, playing the
highest types of plays, such as “Mourn-
ing Becomes Electra,” “Strange Inter-
lude,” Euripides and Shakspeare. To
New Yorkers she is something the same
sort of institution as Dame Sybil
Thorndike in England.
• •
Promoted engineeer lieutenant-com-
mander in the R.A.N. Reserve, Max
Shean, of Manning Park (W.A.), had dis-
tinguished service in contrasting climates
in War 11. In an X-craft (midget sub-
marine) for the raid on Bergen, Norway,
in 1944, he won D.S.O. In June, 1945,
he added a bar to it for outstanding work
in another X-craft, cutting the Singapore-
Saigon-Hong Kong cables.
• •
J. R. Isackson, who had a leg ampu-
tated on a French battlefield at the age
of 16 in World War I, was the Australian
Legion’s first advocate before pension-
tribunals in World War 11. A tribunal
refused him a hearing, and he attacked
the Repatriation Department week after
week in “Smith’s Weekly,” at the same
time going to the High Court, he and
another Legion official sharing the
expense themselves, for a writ of man-
damus. Their case was won by barrister
Howard Beale, now Commonwealth
Minister for Supply ; and John Isackson,
having been replaced in the Legion, made
a last appearance before the tribunal, and
left it at that. He then went into the
car-auction business and later emerged
as boss of University Motors. In death,
he returned to the old stand, making the
front page of Sydney “Sun” in his family’s
indictment of repatriation-hospitals; a
tough, unconventional, all-in fighter, and
one of the reasons why the rights of
soldiers cannot always be delicately
pigeonholed away.
• •
From Reader to the Chair of Applied
Chemistry at the N.S.W. University of
Technology goes David Paver Mellor, to
work closely with Professor Alexander,
head of the School of Applied Chemistry
there. A Launcestonian, the new prof,
has behind him researching at the Com-
monwealth Solar Observatory, and at the
Pasadena (U.S.) Institute of Technology.
One-time president of the N.S.W. Royal
Society and of the Gemmological Asso-
ciation, he is known (remotely) to
thousands of N.S.W. students —as chief-
examiner in chemistry-physics for the
Leaving examinations.
• •
“C. 8.”: A Melbourne “Herald” book-
reviewer asked who was the Australian
lieutenant, known to the mountaineers of
Crete only as “Johnny,” who in 1942
painfully hobbled his way from a prison-
camp to the coast and so escaped to
Egypt. He was L. T. Frazer, Melbourne
City Engineer, one of seven Australians
of the Sixth Division who went off into
the mountains with friendly Cretans
when the British forces on Crete capitu-
lated in June, 1941. He moved from
cave to cave, nourishing his frame on
goats’ milk, cheese and dandelions for
12 months, finally getting down to the
coast, where a boat was to pick him up
and take him across to Egypt. The Cretan
who guided him to the coast at the risk
of his life was George Psychoundakis,
author of the book reviewed by the
“Herald.”
• •
This is the jet-plane age. Producer
Lionel Harris, brought to Melbourne to
vet. the Richardson productions, got
“The Sleeping Prince” and “Separate
Tables” going at the Princess, flew to
Sydney and produced “The Duenna,”
flitted back to Melbourne to stage “The
Little Hut” at the Princess, rushed back
to Sydney to catch up on the Richardson
productions, looked in again on Mel-
bourne, and the next day flew to New
York to give “The Duenna” a kick-off
there.
To be built on a property at Macedon
(Vic.), the Commonwealth Civil Defence
School will train key men as the core of
an anti-atomic organisation. Appointed
commandant, Air-Commodore Ernest
Knox-Knight has for some years been
in charge of the R.A.A.F.’s overseas head-
quarters, in London. He’s son of a
colonel. The school’s medical adviser,
Major-General Kingsley Norris, retired
recently as D.-G., Army Medical Ser-
vices. For his medical advising in the
Owen Stanley campaign, he was awarded
C.8.E., adding it to a 1941-vintage D.S.O.
• •
George Benson, Melbourne aVtist who
went to Perth in 1931 to paint the mural
decorating the ceiling of Winthrop Hall
in the University, has been commissioned
to do another big job—a series of murals
and panels at Kwinana for the Shell
company; the main theme the story of
oil, others symbolising the evolution of
transport on land and sea. After the
Winthrop Hall mural (for which Napier
Waller did the fine mosaic over the door-
way) Benson stayed west, painting land-
scapes and holding one-man exhibitions
at least once a year. He also did some
fine murals on public buildings and in
Perth’s arcades. Official war-artist in
War I (a comrade-in-brushes with Will
Dyson, Louis McCubbin, Arthur Streeton
and others whose works now hang in
Canberra’s War Memorial), in War II
Benson enlisted as a private and was again
commissioned as a war-artist, in charge of
camouflage for Westralia. He is now flat-
out on the Kwinana job, which must be
completed by October, the date scheduled
for the official opening by industrial
V.I.P.s from England.
• •
Notched 90 in Perth, Joseph Wood
Langsford, head of a city real-estate firm,
and well-known over many years in the
religious and public life of Westralia.
Born in South Australia, he was a
schoolboy when he saw John Forrest
arrive in Adelaide at the end of his over-
land journey, in 1874. Twenty years
later, Mayor of Claremont (W.A.), he
held an umbrella over Sir John at a local
Arbor-Day celebration. From 1903-08
M.L.C. for the Metropolitan-Suburban
Province, he has been for more than 70
years a Methodist lay-preacher and is
a life-member of the Y.M.C.A. in Perth.
Navigates the city’s streets under his own
power.
• •
H. H. Germon, new chief executive
officer for 73 Sydney suburban branches
of the ’Wales, is a Westralian who’s been
in since 1923. Specialist in foreign-
exchange, and transferred to London in
1936, three years later he went to Bris-
bane, then across to New Zealand. Since
then, secretary of the Bank, and manager
in Adelaide and supervisor for South
Australia.
• •
Herewith is Reginald West, Australia’s
No. 1 commercial traveller —president of
the Federal association of those itiner-
ants. He himself deals in wool, got into
that trade in 1910 (Melbourne), then
Sydney, and in 1925 opened a branch in
South Australia for Wenzel’s, wool-mer-
TRAVELLERS AND TOPS
chants, and has managed the branch
since. Two breaks with wool —the first
when, at 21, he had a shot at trading and
planting in New Guinea. This ended
when he moved overseas as a sergeant of
the 7th Battalion. Blown-up, he was in-
valided home. President of the C.T.A.
in South Aus. between 1944-46, and
again last year, he deputy-chairs the
R.S.L. distressed soldiers’ fund in his
State.
Ernest Currey (here .depicted), never
known to be other than dapper and wear-
ing a grin, rates Commander (S) before
his monicker. The rank takes in close
on 40 years in the Navy; the brackets-S
means he’s in the supply-branch, and that
can mean anything from responsibility
for prunes and sailors’ clothes, marlin-
spikes for splicing and spares for aircraft,
to being the captain’s secretary. And,
of course, the “pusser’ ? has his normal
PRUNES AND PROPELLERS
fighting action-station. One of the very
few still serving to wear the campaign
medals of three wars, Currey was in
battle-cruiser Australia in the War I
North Sea, and (then a snotty) saw the
German Fleet trail into Scapa Flow for
the surrender. Before the next outbreak
he was borne in most ships of the R.A.N.,
and when the balloon did go up he had a
series of fortunate leavings —left cruiser
Perth before the Japs got her, left cruiser
Canberra before her sinking, and left
cruiser Australia before that flock of
suicide-bombers fell upon her and made
a pincushion of her upper-works. And
he had six months in Korea, carrier
Sydney. He’s son of Norman Currey,
till he retired in the ’thirties Registrar-
General of Victoria.
• •
Elected Chancellor of the University of
New Zealand, the Rev. H. J. Rybum
succeeds the Rev. Dr. D. C. Herron,
retired. Master of Knox College, Dun-
edin, a member of the University’s
council and of its senate, the new Chan-
cellor accompanied the N.Z.E.F. overseas
on Kaiser business and as a Rhodes man
had three years at Oxford.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 83, Henry Arthur Pitt,
C.M.G., 0.8. E., stockbroker, vice-president ol
the Lawn Tennis Association of Australia for
25 years, and life-member of the Victorian
Tennis Association; after Sir Norman Brookes,
the “grand old man” of Australian tennis-
administration. He retired from the L.T.A.A.
post last year, shortly before Sir Norman
announced his own retirement. In the Vic-
torian public service very early, he was head
of the Victorian Treasury Department between
1923-37, acted as State Agent-General in
London (1927), and was on a number of boards
and commissions. He was also chairman ol
directors of Georges, Ltd.
In Sydney, at 88, Alex A. Smith, governing-
director of Smith and Lane, commercial
printers. ' For more than 70 years a he
was known well at Warringah Bowling Club
and Vaucluse Masonic Lodge.
At 52, Fred W. Buddee, medico, mayor for
four years and an alderman for 11 of Glen
Innes (N.S.W.). A Sydney University man,
he went to Britain for further experience,
returned in a small cargo-ship, and performed
an urgent, successful operation on a crew-
member —with inadequate facilities and in a
full gale. A pleasing singer—opera-star Guido
Cacialli awarded him a Clement flosking
scholarship in 1924 and later he had more vocal
tuition in London —he was the inspiration o
most cultural activities in Glen Innes. One
of his healthiest babies is the Glen Innes
Eisteddfod; and the Arts Council, the Presby-
terian Church and pretty well every club in tne
place owe him much.
In Perth, Mrs. Agnes Philomena Durack,
widow of Jeremiah Brice Durack, drover or
the north. With his two brothers he J®
Cooper’s Greek early in June, 1883, with 70W
head of cattle. After nearly three years on tne
track, in some of the worst country in Aus-
tralia, they arrived on the Ord River in VY.A.
at the end of 1885, having covered over 3UUU
miles. Mrs. Durack was a South Australian
from Whyte, Yarcowie, where her family nau
farming interests.
In Fremantle, Jean R. Gibson, wife ° r
former Mayor there Sir Frank Gibson, M.L.e.
In Brisbane, at 90, Cyril H. E. Lambart,
grandson of the Marquis Conyngham, and born
in Dublin Castle, where his father was the
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland’s househo
comptroller. His aunt, Lady Jane ChurchUi,
was for half a century Lady-in-Waiting to
Queen Victoria, Earlier an officer of , y
Dublin Fusiliers, C.H.E. settled m Bn
before the turn of the century; all his cffildre
except Terence Lambart (Bulletin cancat u
and Brisbane radio-announcer) are on the ianu
in Queensland.


THE MAESTRO


ABORIGINALITIES
CAN I come in? It’s about all this
bushcraft. Have spent 70-odd years
mostly in the backblocks, and can say
that any man —black, white or brindle —
can be bushed under certain conditions.
The newchum or old-timer who gets
twisted with the sun shining would prob-
ably get lost buying a platform-ticket; he
should never be let loose without a bell
on. Can’t see any sort of bushman
getting lost while the sun is up—or while
he can see distant objects such as moun-
tains. But on level or undulating and
small-hill country, with short visibility,
heavy clouds, no wind and in strange
country anybody can go wrong. Inci-
dentally, I’ll back a chappie with a six-
penny compass to do better on a straight
line than an abo. in unknown country
“Canopus.”
* * * ®
“Boro-Belle”: When the O'Connell
River (Q.) was in flood lately a black-
polled heifer was swept away from its
Bloomsbury location. Crocodiles and
sharks missed it, and it swam 15 miles
from the coast across to Lindeman
Island —where it was identified by its
brand. A record swim by Daisy?
* * * *
“Vim”: Letter just received from a
very small youngster in the outback, lick-
ing any photograph hollow: “We have
little baby kan-ga-roo. He spills his milk
so mum-my has to put a rag round his
neck.”
« * * *
“Centraller”: Slight diversion in Alice
Springs when the J. Arthur Rank film-
unit came to town to take outdoor shots
for the film “A Town Like Alice,” based
on Nevil Shute’s novel. They had the
main street cleared and cordoned off
(apparently the. sight of all the flash
new cars would spoil the “atmosphere”)
and were busily taking pictures when a
girl on a motor-bike roared through their
cordon and past the cameras. A great
length of film and several tempers were
ruined. Incidentally, Alice Springs is
now considered too big to pass as the
Alice of Shute’s book. So most of the
“Alice” scenes were filmed in Tennant
Creek.
* * * *
“B-herd”: He went into Queensland
and took up a wild selection, but the tall
trees stood no chance to block out his
first love. In fact, he took advantage
of them, turning them into open-air
garages for the trucks and cars, bombs
and jalopies that gravitated to his selec-
tion. That they were most, if not all,
love-jobs for the battlers about mattered
nothing to him. The things were sick,
needed attention and he could give it —
a doctor dedicated to succoring the bat-
tered and off-color. How much he felt for
a sick engine would be hard to gauge, but
once I tried to find him in a maze of
gutted engines. When I did locate him he
was coiled under a Ford of still present-
able appearance. Some fool had driven
it without oil until the thing could go no
further. The bearings were lumps of
chewed white metal. He squatted under
the sump, this car-doctor, and cradled the
bits of metal in his hands, and as I came
by, unknown to him, I heard him mutter
“Poor little things!”
* * * *
“Web”: Touching the old custom of
placing a sovereign under the heel of a
ship’s mast (B. 20/7/’55). About a year
ago, during her rejuvenation, the masts
were removed from the veteran clipper
Cutty Sark, which is being preserved
as a memorial to the windjammers of
days gone by. She was built in 1869 by
Scott and Linton, at Dumbarton (Scot.),
the building being completely supervised
by Scottish shipbuilders. The rejuvena-
tors, aware of that old custom, eagerly
watched the unstepping of the mainmast.
Under it—a few buttons and a halfpenny!
* * * *
“Taswegian”: A Bulletin short story
has given me a greater respect for the
gang with which I picked rasp-
berries and currants in the hills
behind Mt. Wellington (near Hobart).
In the story Ellen Thomson “could
pick her hundred pounds a day with
the best of them, but it meant starting
early and working till dusk.” With us
1001 b. (unless the fruit was terribly poor)
was only an average picker’s tally; the
ones we rated good pickers, if they
started early, would pull off a couple of
hundred. One bloke in the Speck (in-
credible though it seems when you con-
sider the size and weight of a raspberry)
picked 3501 b. in a day ; he and his wife
got over 6001 b. between them. That’s
picking. And I remember an old woman
at Collinsvale, where we picked one
season, who used to snatch off about
2501 b. a day; we kids reckoned that she
lay on her back and picked with her
hands and feet.
* * * *
“Hist”: Picked an electroplated
chrysalis from my oleander shrub —about
fin. long, it dangled by one end from a
leaf and sparkled in the sunshine. Thought
I had something new and that the insect
world had entered the chromium age, but
the Australian Museum informed me
that these metallic chrysales were first
spotted by Captain Cook in 1770. They
are the pupae of the oleander (or crow)
butterfly (Euplcea core corinna ), a black
fellow with white markings on its 3in.
wing-span. Its range is from the islands
of Torres Strait, down the east coast from
Cape York to Sydney; also around Dar-
win and Broome. It is intermittently
common about Sydney—in 1947-48, for
instance, and again during the past
summer. First time I have seen it here
—central-western N.S.W.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: The plumage of the
jabiru, Australia’s only stork, appears
from a distance to be plain black, like
Kelly’s, with a touch of white. However,
this baby-abo. carrier is a really colorful
“You do better at corroboree than on A.B.C., Mary.”
bird. Lower wings, lower back and tail
are metallic-green tinged with gold, head
and neck are the same green with purple
lights, rest of the plumage is white, and
the legs are bright red.
$ * * *
“Zanda”: Browsing through an old
issue of “The Lone Hand” I came across
two photographs that instantly reminded
me of “C.S.’s” snake-goanna scrap (B.
13/4/’55) and the subsequent criticism
from “A.H.” (B. 4/5/’55). The first
showed a “gohanna” (a huge one) stand-
ing victorious over an unidentified snake.
An apparently sadistic go., he “amused
himself by repeatedly carrying the snake
up a tree and dropping him down,” in the
act of which he is snapped in the second
photo. The photos were taken in a barren-
looking area near a Gippsland railway-
line, but since there is no accompanying
description of how the pair came to
holts “A.H.'s” theory on “defence, mating
and quest for tucker” can’t really be
ruled out.
* * i * *
“C.P.G.”: Spud-diggers are getting into
the big-income class. They’ve been earn-
ing up to £5O a week harvesting the Bal-
larat (Vic.) district potato-crop, working
six days a week. Ballarat has the biggest
potato-production in' Australia, with
11,000 acres within a 100-mile radius and
more than 600 growers running farms
from two to 200 acres.
* * * *
“Jock”: Turning over what came
round the meat I belatedly read a Sydney-
daily columnist recalling the buckjumping
contests of early in the century, and
adding: “A great feature of the con-
tests was the famous outlaw Bobs, ridden
by only one man, a darkie whose name is
forgotten.” Well, well! Memories are
short. The man who conquered the
redoubtable Bobs was Billy Waite, an
aborigine. I was a boy at the time, but
I recall the thrill I experienced whenever
the bandy-legged Billy, clad in immaculate
moleskin breeches, came into the arena
to mount the snorting brumby.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Maybe, as “Salmon
Gums” says, it will puzzle old-timers
how a man could catch a horse and ride
2\ miles with a fractured pelvis and thigh
and internal injuries (B. 6/7/’55); it
won’t puzzle medicoes. The pelvis is
covered with a tight-fitting skin which
has been known to hold a fracture in
position—a doubtful blessing, since the
break is often undetectable on an X-ray.
A man I knew was treated for muscular
contusions following a fall from a high
scaffold. After six weeks of physio-
therapic exercising he stumbled while
walking home, “felt something click”
and reported his condition as deteriorat-
ing. The doctor agreed to another X-ray.
The result caused a stir in the radiolo-
gist’s rooms —patients suffering from a
fractured pelvis and two crushed verte-
brae do not generally walk in to be
X-rayed. Medical opinion agreed that the
stumble had parted the fracture and
caused it to show ; as for the vertebrae
injury, it had been overlooked because it
was incredible that a man could have
walked around with such an injury.
Exceptional muscular development and
amazing fortitude alone had made it
possible, as with “S.G.’s” young stock-
man.
* # * *
“C.P.G.”: Sunday, July 24, was Coro-
nation Day for the Witchety Club, west
of Mildura (Vic.). This club, which is
dedicated to eat witchety-grubs in all
forms —raw, sweetened, browned, filleted,
roasted, or just plain cooked —runs to 23
members. They cordially welcome any
visitors strong enough in the stomach to
have a go at eating the grubs.
* * * *
“ r_ rHE doleful whoop of the Swamp-
'S- pheasant,” said a recent Aboite ; but
that clown of the bush has several calls.
Two pairs live in my N.Q. garden all
year round, their calls a constant delight,
especially when night is closing in. They
treated me to an outburst of hisses, sneers,
and threats when I found their nest,
hanging a few inches above ground be-
tween two pineapple-shoots. The young-
sters were a quaint-looking pair, two
black balls from which protruded long,
thin, white hairs, rudiments of feathers.
Had it not been for their gaping yellow
mouths they would have been more like
sea-urchins with bleached spines than
baby birds.
Their parents, however, thought them
beautiful. It took them only three days
to advance their offspring forcibly to the
grown-up stage and get them out of the
danger-zone.
In courting, the cock bird, on the top-
most bough of a giant mango-tree, pokes
most of himself up through the thick
foliage to voice an invitation to his lady-
love, adorning the top of an avocado.
He starts on a deep, melodious strain, and
she joins in with softer voice, but in
perfect harmony, “Cook-cook-cook-coo'
cook,” the final gutturals scarcely
sounded, the vowels slow, rich, and pas-
sionate. At about the tenth repetition o
the strain, the cock will give one or ms
rare performances, an indescribani
gurgling finish, like liquid pouring from
a narrow-necked bottle. ,
Banfield, in Last Leaves from Dunk
Island, pays tribute to the swamp- P e
sant’s varied calls, including its 9 UIC !
crisp trippingly airy outburst ot mem
ment.” A long way from only doletui.
Konmak.
SUNNYSIDE
Cocked like a brummy epaulette on the
shoulder of Mount Wills,
Sunnyside the gold-town of eighty years ago
Is now a gap in the messmate, a patch in the
hills
Only a little greener than the bared earth
higher, under the snow.
This was the town like a flash girl gay before
age’s rub,
Prettied-out in sequins among the shanty
drunks
With big breasts bared for grabbing hands and
a bed in the nearest scrub
And childhood lost under frills in old
cabin-trunks —
She who had once known gold like rain on
her painted face
Flung on her in that hunger of men that lust
will never cure, .
Who had known the price of living was the
luck of the yellow race .
And finally known her doom in the end of her
own bright lure —
Sunnyside the gold-town at the neck of the
Knocker pass,
Left after lust’s usage to the whim of suns and
snows
With her only pretties a mess of broken glass
And her souvenirs—bottles up-ended in the
N.S.W.
A. McD. CAMERON.


IXL - AJC
OK - VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies s~»
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
NOW - 2 Mobilco Junior Models
Mobilco Junior £l6B
with 5.2 h.p. Mobilco Engine
THE LOWEST-PRICED 4
Mobilco Junior 7 Hjjy
with B.S.A. 7 b.h.p. 4-stroke Engine Mm * V
GEAR DRIVEN SWING SAW
F.O.R. Melbourne, Blade Extra,
Smaller brother to the Mobilco Bush King
and Model B Saws, the "Junior" is the
ideal lightweight for the farmer, grazier,
contractor or even the man who clears land
on a week-end basis. ,
V„u get "the lot"-LOW PRICE plus VALUE plus MOBILCO'S 6
GUARANTEE plus these MOBILCO SUPER FEATURES:
•jAr In-built gear reduction
'fa Finger-tip control Easy
positioning for cutting at any
angle Drives up to 36" blade
Spindle mounted on ball
bearings -fa Undercarriage gives
ample clearance for ripping on
ground 5.2 h.p. Mobilco
engine. Runs 4Vi hours on one
gallon of petrol.
POST NOW FOR
DEMONSTRATION
f would like to see a demonstration of
the Mobilco "Junior" as soon as possible.
\
Address
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
50-S4 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN PHONES: YX 1244-5 - - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY *
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
YX7ELL over 40 years ago Teitzel Bros.,
** Mt. Dangar (N.Q.), helped pioneer
tobacco-growing in the district and as a
spec, decided to grow calabashes for pipes
—an off-the-beaten-track undertaking
which provided a lucrative sideline. A
contract was signed with a Melbourne
firm for a yearly supply of 50,000 cala-
bashes at 4d. each, and the crop was
planted. Some types of the gourd grow
wild along river-banks, but we imported
special seed from South Africa. As the
calabash developed it had to be shaped
gradually and when mature sawn off. It
was then boiled, the flesh scraped out and
the skin scraped off. The shell was then
dried in the sun for a few days, packed
in cases and sent to Melbourne. The
addition of a mouthpiece and, presto, the
pipe!—“A.L.T.”
* * * *
“Emel”: Local ratepayer, on the due
date, paid-up by cheque His accompany-
ing note ran: “As you see, this cheque
is ‘not negotiable,’ like the roads out my
way.”
* « * «#
“Konmak”: English scientists claim to
have found a deadly poison akin to
morphine in specimens of the Queens-
land finger-cherry sent to them for study
by our C.5.1.R.0. Most of us had learned
previously that blindness had resulted in
some cases when this fruit was eaten by
soldiers in New Guinea. But how
comes it that abos in Cape York
Peninsula eat the finger-cherry with
impunity? Cassowaries, too, are partial
to it. It cannot be that our fruit lacks
the poisonous matter found in the New
Guinea variety, for some of the specimens
supplied to the C.5.1.R.0. for dispatch
to England were sent in by'my next-door
neighbor here in N.Q.
* * * *
“Dorian”: During an ant-invasion of a
Berlin street two ant-eaters were com-
missioned from the local zoo to deal with
it. But the tongue-flickers haughtily
ignored the feast, their attendant explain-
ing that “they were only, used to white-
ants.” Could this be the solution to Aus-
tralia’s white-ant problem?
* * # •
“Kelms”: At a time when poultry-
farmers are battling for a living and many
are being forced out of the game (see
any egg-board excuse for increasing egg-
prices), a W.A. country show committee
is offering a prize for an eggless-cake.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: The gum of the W.A.
redgum-tree checks dysentery (B.
20/7/’55) because it is an astringent.
More effective, however, are the leaves
of a bush-plant with the botanical name
Grewia polygama. Early in the last war
half the men of my unit went down with
dysentery. I ate grewia-leaves and advised
others to do the same. And the remedy
worked. Incidentally, grewia-leaves and
gum from the redgum are the only bush-
remedies in my experience which have
any value whatever. Even so, they will
work only with the comparatively mild
form of dysentery. If your trouble is the
amoebic or bacillary type, it’s a hospital
job.
# * * *
“Saaedi”: Most Australian birds move
about a lot, but our two greatest eagles
tend to live out their lives within a small
area. I’ve known a pair of wedgetails to
use the same nest for 10 years. A large
pile to begin with, it became monstrous
through annual additions. Though con-
stantly working in adjacent country, I
never saw the eagles further than three
miles from their nest, which, whether in
use or not, was the focal-point of all their
activities. Similarly, the white-breasted
sea-eagle. If a background of rugged
timber is available a pair will often estab-
lish themselves beside a seaside town,
where they will use the same nest over
and over again, and continue prospecting
the same limited range.
* * * m
“Sati”: Half-a-century ago in the
Suttor country a day’s brumby-hunting
was a test for men and mounts. Dotted
about the brumby-country were stallion-
mounds over 3ft. high, to which the equine
lords resorted to announce their suprem-
acy. On our run we had a son of Chester,
“I ’m still sticking to the old-fashioned Way”
Melbourne Cup winner, as speed was
essential to swing the wild gallopers into
the calico-wings leading to a brumby-
trap yard. Those broken-in were not
equal to the station prads, being sulky and
prone to knock-up. On droving trips they
usually cleared out in hopples, heading
back to their beloved towrai. Brumby
Bob, Brigalow Jack and other fearless
riders who tore through dense scrub,
yelling and wheeling the breakers, put on
a show seldom seen nowadays. Chester,
by the way, has a grave and headstone
in a corner of Kirkham Lane golf-course,
near Camden (N.S.W.).
“Whipper-snapper”: Charlie was one
of those blokes who make you
wonder why they call women ear-
bashers. The strongest leg of the
biggest iron pot wouldn’t stand
a chance with him. Always good for a
rumor, never stuck for an excuse. At the
country trot-meeting he had a drive. He’d
borrowed a sulky, a whip and a pair of
shin-boots, and was throwing the gear on
“Old Bones” when someone asked,
“How’ll he go, Charlie?” Spitting out a
hunk of tobacco, Charlie replied, “Should
take this lot!” The old moke jumped
well and Charlie bustled him to the front,
threw everything at him, and was still a
length to the good with a couple of fur-
longs to go. Then the old fellow started
to fold-up. As the field bunched-up on
him, Charlie shouted at them not to
crowd him, while, leg dangling, colors
blowing out and cap askance, he thrashed
the last bit out of the nag. He finished
a distant third. Same bloke went to him
later. “Ol’ boy’s improvin’. Ran a good
race, Charlie.” “Yair,” said Charlie.
“Jus’ think what ’e’d ’a’ done to ’em if I’d
been tryin’! ”
THRUSH TO HIS MATE IN THE
MORNING
Listen, I’ll call up the world for you,
Spinning from darkness a bubble of light.
For your delight.
See, I draw from my throbbing throat
A gilded tree and a glittering sun,
My pretty one.
Whistle some shadows, sing in a creek,
And there for you is this shining thing.
O sing! O sing!
N.S.W.
ANNE BELL.


NOW OPEN
AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT
TERM to
H
0
Interest
(per annum)
4}% . .
4% , .
31% . ,
35%
Currency
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
a s a •
TO
0
2
Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from —
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES - VICTORIA - QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA - WESTERN AUSTRALIA - TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: Ian Potter & Co., Melbourne and Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to the public to
subscribe for the Stock mentioned herein.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Profits from the Holden
nrHE Holden car has become
big business in Australia to an
extent that has startled some ob-
servers. But car-manufacturing
has to be big business. If it isn’t,
its products are invariably costly.
G.M.-H. sold their first
Holden towards the end of 1948.
Prior to that there was an exten-
sive period of tooling-up and
heavy capital-outlay. In 1950
the first ordinary div. for five
years was paid to the U.S.
parent. That was when produc-
tion began to get into a smooth
swing. Since then there have
been spectacular increases in
profit as output of cars increased
—54,796 Holdens last year,
compared with 20,150 in 1950.
Plans are in hand to raise
output of Holdens to 100,000 a
year.
Last term profit of the co.
from all sources (it assembled
and distributed 15,592 Vauxhalls
and Bedfords, as well as 3666
Canadian and U.S. models, in
addition to refrigerators and
other products) was £9,829,566,
compared with £7,236,239 in the
preceding year. The dividend
to General Motors (U.S.A.) was
raised to 260 p.c. on the ordinary
capital, compared with 100 p.c.
in 1953. It called for £4,550,000
(against £1,750,000). The cost,
in dollars, of these dividends
should be considered in relation
to the dollar cost of fully
importing cars similar to the
Holden.
Last year’s profits and divi-
dends came from sales totalling
£7O million. And though
ordinary capital appears in the
co.’s books at £1,750,000, it had
the help of £22,500,000 of
ploughed-back profits at Decem-
ber 31 last, thus making the
dividend look much richer than
it really was. (The board has
explained that it has not capital-
ised these ploughed-back profits
for the reason that to carry out
such a formality would involve
a tax-penalty.)
Up to December last 184,238
Holdens had bpen turned out.
The price'was reduced by £7O
during 1954; with sales-tax
taken in, the drop was £B4.
There have been no reductions
since, but increased steel and
other costs have been absorbed.
Over the 10 years 1945-54.
total sales of all G.M.-H.
products were £323 million —
just a little less than the proceeds
of last year’s Australian wool-
clip. Its profit from that turn-
over amounted to £29 million.
Of the profit, nearly £2l million
was kept in the business to
finance further expansion. Only
£8 million was transmitted to the
overseas shareholders who put
up the original stake.
In respect of 1953 and 1954,
just under £ll million of the
profits earned was retained for
the purpose of extending manu-
facturing and similar facilities.
A programme of further expan-
sion over the next five years,
involving an outlay of £2l
million, is to be financed out of
ploughed-back profits.
The large profits earned by
G.M.-H. have naturally aroused
criticism. Big figures excite
attention in Australia any time,
especially if the word “profit” is
associated with them. But while
the matter is worth the critical
study of all concerned, it should
be remembered that high profits
afe the customary thing in
successful car - manufacturing,
and that they are apparently
“So you Want a rise , Jenkins. How much would you like ?”
necessary for the development of
the industry. The Nuffield
benefactions are illustrative of
the profits made in England
from Morris cars, and those gifts
were made after the Morris
companies had, presumably,
ploughed-back sufficient profits
to perpetuate and improve the
species.
Nuffield (Australia), Ltd., in-
cidentally, in a couple of years
should be turning out Aus-
tralian-made Morrises, Austins,
etc.,, in competition with the
Holden from its Victoria Park
(Sydney) factory. The Holden
should welcome such competi-
tion.
Countering Inflation
Last week reserve-banks of
West Germany, Belgium and
the United States raised their
discount-rates in an effort
to durb inflationary pressure in
their particular economies. It
was commented in Washington
that in the United States “the
business boom is getting pretty
exuberant,” and that it was the
consensus of opinion on the
economic and financial side of
the Administration that the Gov-
ernment should exert some effort
to keep it orderly.
Britain moved in the same
direction earlier this year, and
Mr. Butler announced further
financial measures a fortnight
ago. Since then it has been
revealed that Britain’s gold and
dollar reserves fell by 136
million dollars during July—on
July 31 they stood at 2544
million dollars, compared with
3013 million a year earlier.
Over the past year, in the face
of increasing overseas - trade
problems, advances by Aus-
tralian trading-banks increased
by £l3B million to £916 million
—a record total. The ratio of
advances to deposits grew during
the period from 53.8 p.c. to 62.6
p.c. This was in the face of
heavy pruning of unessential
accommodation by the banks.
Treasurer Fadden will have a
number of problems to ponder
over as he frames his Budget for
\the 1955-56 financial year,
especially if it is to be election-
year.
Rough Range Tests
From L. Owen: A summary
of test-production up to June
27 from Rough Range offset-
well No. la, 30ft. east of the
No. 1 well, was given in
B. 6/7/’55.
On July 4 the hourly rate was
approximately 16.3 barrels of
oil and 2.5 barrels of water
through a {-in. choke over 24
hours. Tests were then switched
to {in., {in., {in. and 3/16in.
chokes, but no details were pub-
lished, the only statement being
that, during a recent test with
a {in. choke, the well flowed
at the rate of 16.9 barrels (pre-
sumably of mixed oil and water)
an hour. Assuming that the per-
' centage of water had not in-
creased above the average figure
of 16 for this size of choke, this
flow would represent 14.2
barrels of oil with 2.7 barrels of
water an hour.
The total fluid produced dur-
ing the tests was 20,585 barrels,
containing 16,896 barrels of oil
and 3689 barrels (nearly 18 per
cent.) of water.
The official comment is that
the data obtained provide no
definite evidence regarding the
size of the oil-bearing reservoir
pierced by the Rough Range
v)ells No. 1 and No. 1a or its
potential productive capacity,
but that “this one lone well does
not represent commercial pro-
duction in such an isolated area
as Exmouth Gulf.” That state-
ment is qualified by saying that
“the tests appear to indicate that,
as part of a major producing
field, the well would be a satis-
factory producer”—which would
be equally true of a 10-barrel
“stripper.”
In my opinion, the tests point
definitely to a very limited
volume of oil-impregnation —at
least as far as this one bead
in a possible necklace of oil-
lenses is concerned and that
this small reservoir is under
hydraulic control; this opinion
is reinforced by the company’s
statement that “the producing
characteristics of the well
remained more or less constant
during the duration.” The limited
extent of the “pool” is further
demonstrated by the decline in
the production of fluid, and the
increase of the percentage of
water it carried, during the with-
drawal of only 20,585 barrels.
This fact also indicates that the
life of Rough Range No. 1a
well would have been short even
if production were limited by a
{in. choke.
It may be possible, of course,
that the current seismic survey
of the Rough Range 1 area may
discover anomalies which, in
turn, may lead to the striking of
another oil-lense, but this chance
will be vastly increased if the
interpretation of the seismic data
is accompanied by a meticulous
and very detailed study of the
intriguing geological history ol
the Carnarvon Basin.
Rough Range wells Nos. 4 to
8, if they have served no other
useful purpose, will at least
have produced data which allow
the existing published papers on
this subject to be augmented.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
OSIUUYAN
TRADE MARR
Jackson & O’Snllivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
I
as
Tf 1 ' -*!
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
YOU WILL
STOP SMOKING
OR YOUR MONEY WIU
BE REFUNDED
You can relieve your system of the desire
for tobacco, absolutely and completely,
-'or you can reduce the amount of tobacco
you consume to any extent desired.
You can do so quickly in the safe,
mild, pleasant and reliable way under a
money-back guarantee at a cost of less
than one week’s tobacco with
VERMARK
ANTI-SMOKING TABLETS
PEICE 10/- for bottle of 50 tablets.
20/- for bottle of 100 tablets.
Post Free.
The 50-tablet bottle will be sufficient to
cure moderate smokers, but heavy smokers
will require the bottle of 100 tablets.
Vermark Laboratories,
12A Springfield Ave., Kings Cross,
X.S.W., Box 744, G.P.0., Sydney.
RHEUMATISM ■ ■ -
ARTHRITIS - - -
A new highly-active lodised
Salicylate Cream can give you
quick relief from pain and long-
term remedial action.
AMPLISAL
MASSAGE CREAM
Send 6/6 for full-size jar.
Archer Laboratories,
POST OFFICE, PARRAMATTA.
Mm
1111—11
- \ ■■■■■■■
H
/
rl
BUDGETING
... an A.N.Z. Cheque Account
much more convenienf
Let responsibility rest gently upon your
daughter’s shoulders. Encourage her to save
her money, to budget well, to pay her
accounts by cheque.
By using her regular Bank statement she sees
the cumulative effect of small transactions and
is provided with a sound basis and incentive
for long-term budgeting.
Using an A.N.Z. cheque account has helped
many girls to develop confidence and a
business-like attitude towards financial matters
in general.
Why not solve that gift problem by starting
an A.N.Z. cheque account for your daughter
or for any other member ef your family?
A-N-Z
y
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London. Agents throughout the World.
- ANZ.66.1388*
PRESSURE
KEROSENE
MS*
lamps
Juirn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
, 123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Londan Airmail
From Herbert Holman
A SOLDIER uses his know-
ledge of unarmed combat to
kill the man whose wife he
covets and then arranges the
body so that it looks like an
obvious suicide. He later marries
the widow and is brought to
justice Only after a long interval
of painstaking inquiry.
A woman, spurned and badly
treated by her lover, goes “over
the top” in the white heat of
mental agony and frustration,
slips a revolver into her hand-
bag, seeks out the man and
empties all the barrels into him.
The soldier lives. The woman
is hanged by the neck. Both
murders were wilful, the one
coldly premeditated, the other a
crime of passion. Both criminals
were British subjects and both,
it is true, were sentenced to
death. But whereas the woman
shot the man outside a Hamp-
stead pub the soldier slew his
victim in a foreign country
(Germany) that has abolished the
death penalty. The law forbids
his deportation for the purpose
of its administration, so he gets
away with a life-sentence in an
English prison.
Justice is not, in the event,
done. Positively, it is not seen
to be done.
In the face of strong protests
from outside the Home Office,
both “expert” and lay, the Home
Secretary can hardly feel at ease
about his responsibilities; nor,
indeed, about the rigid antiquity
of the law—the more particu-
larly as a predecessor of his has,
in the light of subsequent find-
ings, admitted his distress on
learning that a man he failed to
reprieve was almost certainly
innocent.
Monetary Quirks
Industrial profits are high and
will be higher. Yet the pound
continues to fall. Investors are
queuing-up to place their funds.
Yet there is a shortage of stock.
The weakness in sterling makes
gilt-edged securities look pallid.
Yet the gap in yields between
gilts and equities averages at
only 0.06 p.c. (compared to 1
p.c.-li p.c. a year ago). The
credit “squeeze” is an embarrass-
ment to bank-managers because
it means the denial of advances
to private customers —yet not to
the nationalised concerns.
The increase in bank-rate to
4i p.c. has proved inadequate as
an instrument of fiscal control.
Why? Because everybody (i.e.,
the great mass of wage-earners)
is prosperous, having more and
more money to spend. So Mr.
Butler, steadfastly holding out
against well-tailored trade-dele-
gations, has to clamp down on
hire-purchase.
Meanwhile, overfull employ-
ment and wage-increases add
more shillings to the pay-packets
of the workers (and that means,
more-or-less, anybody of either
sex over school-leaving age who
isn’t senile or handicapped by
young children). What will they
spend their money on if they
can’t contract for television-sets,
washing-machines, furniture and
cars on the dot?
On buying their own homes,
perhaps? They are certainly
encouraged to do so, since
Churchill’s Government agreed
to guarantee 95 p.c. advances
and a 30-year term now
virtually the standard one for
a mortgage. They would like
to —if the building-societies
would help them.
But the latter are short of
money. There’s a run on de-
posits and an increased demand
for mortgages. The rate of
interest is that fraction too low,
but if they increase it there’s all
the extra strain on an insufficient
staff; and—who knows—bank-
rate may come down again. So
it is next to impossible to get a
mortgage on a house built before
1918 and difficult to place one on
property built between the wars.
Mortgages now are hand-picked
and subject to a quota.
Those other substantial
backers of a property-owning
democracy, the life-offices, are
also jibbing at mortgages. What-
ever the reason may be, it is
certainly not due to shortage of
money, since industry pumps a
considerable proportion of its
considerable earnings into their
pension-funds. And investment-
managers just can’t find enough
first-class equities for their needs.
Which is where we came in.
Song-and-Dance
The playbill discloses that
about two-thirds of London’s
theatres are given over to the
lighter stage. Of these, no fewer
than 16 (nearly half) are partly
or substantially musical. To the
sophisticated theatregoer a
glance at the billing is generally
more than enough. Experience
rather than prejudice causes an
instant recoil from recording
stars, whatever their country of
origin, and from so-called spec-
tacular revues especially if
“Paris,” “Night” or “Amour”
appears in the title.
Broadway importations, of
which there are four, are cer-
tainly not to be decried because
of their origin. They give us
what we can’t ourselves afford —
opulence in production costs.
But sometimes they need trans-
lating. An abundance of spec-
tacle, too, can be tedious.
Despite Alfred Drake’s stupen-
dous personality, all the
“Oriental” magnificence of
“Kismet,” with music from
Borodin and tensile midriffs
from the Home Counties, is
really not much more than
pantomime (without a Dame,
too!). All that it seems to need
for completeness is a floor of
ice.
Meanwhile, British writers,
composers and impresarios are
doing their best to compete at
a much-reduced financial level.
“Salad Days,” the slight but
accomplished home-product of
the Bristol Old Vic. Company,
is still doing well, while the con-
tinued success of “The Boy
Friend” (the first British musical
comedy ever to storm Broadway)
is fantastic.
The naivety and insouciance
of both these shows has set a
fashion which is more likely to
fade out than to become a cult.
In “Wild Thyme” (Duke of
York’s Theatre), a trifle of
crossed love in a railway-station
and on a Devon beach, there is
much that is pleasing but little
that is distinctive or enduring.
Donald Swann’s music is essen-
tially forthright in melodic tune-
fulness and rhythmic pattern, but
its very simplicity, like the deter-
mined ingenuousness of the play,
soon cloys. There is neither the
effervescence of “Salad Days”
nor the nostalgic burlesque of
“The Boy Friend.” Wendy
Toye’s direction is agile, fast-
moving and entirely from the
’twenties, but the players* with
few exceptions, are strange to
the idiom. Yet the jocose angu-
larity and bucolic squiggles of
Ronald Searle’s sets are witty
and striking.
An intimate revue, “From
Here and There,” succeeds the
long-running “Airs on a Shoe-
string” at the Royal Court
Theatre. The thirty-six items are
too many by half, and some are
pointless, a few really bad. It
is noteworthy that two of the
half-dozen best numbers are by
writers from outside the theatre,
Paul Dehn and Justin Richard-
son. For the most part, the
other sketches are below
standard and lack finesse.
Though falling short of the
required versatility, a mainly
young company reacts with
vigor and zest to a polished
production.


Cope Yarf
\
QUEENSLAND
X
* 4
NEW SOUTH WALES
TORIA
"From Cape York to Portland" —
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K«- :
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.JU.cr.,
C. N. McKay; S. M. Ivimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams. _ „ al j
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Kiverina: S. L. G. Macuon ,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Dearmontb.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson. C.M.G.. M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Granam
Waddell. K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon.
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Mr
Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
T. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman); Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); c
Brenan; A. E. Axon, M.E., M.I.E. (Aust.); W. Hamilton Hart.
Manager: C. E. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Johst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley. ...
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Char evi «•
(Incorporated in Victoria)
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
TPHE business falls into two parts, ship-
ping and investments. The fleet con-
sists of two passenger-vessels (Wanga-
nella and Westralia), half-a-dozen
freighters, and some tugs, lighters, etc.
The lot, together with plant, etc. (includ-
ing subsidiaries), stands in the books at
£1,472,805. Investments total £2,637,030,
of which £1,117,754 is represented by
Government securities and £1,519,276
shares in other cos. The latter include
two colliery subsidiaries (Hebburn and
Metropolitan Coal), as well as substan-
tial holdings in J. and A. Brown and
Abermain-Seaham, also in the coal trade,
and in A.W.A., Melbourne Steam,
A.N.A. (20 p.c.) and Tasmanian
Steamers (50 p.c.).
Over the last couple of years the out-
look for both- inter-State shipping and
the coal trades has improved consider-
ably ; and so have net earnings of those
engaged in the two industries. The back-
ground to the improvement is persistent
growth in the volume of cargoes handled,
steadier operating costs, prompter adjust-
ment of freight-rates in relation to move-
ments in operating costs, and a little
relief from the heavy burden of income
tax.
Earnings of the two sections are not
separated in the published accounts, but
investments (including the subsidiaries)
still appear to be turning in more than
shipping. The figures, however, are so
well compounded that it is difficult to
say just what total profit has been earned,
except that it seems to be more than
claimed.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests, declared profits of parent and
subsidiaries combined compare as
follows:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1950. .130,009 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 10,009 2,545,361
Unexplained additions, £95,138 .. 2,640,499
1951. .148,482 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 28,482 2,668,981
To replacement reserve, £121,850.. 2,790,831
From Federal Govt., £20,000 .. 2,810,831
Unexplained addition, £46,884 .. 2,857,715
1952. .121,966 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 1,966 2,859,681
To reserves, £159,685 . . .. ..3,019,366
Unexplained addition, £67,670 .. 3,086,986
1953. .139,952 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 19,952 3,106,888
Profit sale assets, £265 .. .. 3,107,153
To reserves, £161,896 .. .. 3,269,049
Unexplained addition, £28,233 .. 3,297,282
1954. .150,321 30,000 14p.c.=105,000 15,321 3,312,603
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
Last term’s £150,321 (up £10,369) of
profit was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 16 p.c. on the £750,000 of ord.
capital as against 14.6, 12.2, 15.8, 13.3 and
11.7 p.c. back to 1949. So a 2 p.c. bonus
was added to the 12 p.c. div., making
14 p.c. for the year.
The year’s net figure was written after
allowing £257,230 (down £30,580) for
depreciation and openly sending £161,896
(up £2211) to reserves, which also bene-
fited by unexplained additions of £28,233.
Of the £161,896, £40,000 was earmarked
for tonnage-replacement, because official
allowances for depreciation are inade-
quate to maintain real capital at today’s
cost of replacement. In coalmining the
depreciation problem has been recently
. put on a more satisfactory basis.
Treating the £40,000 as a genuine
charge, and the remaining £121,896 to-
gether with the unexplained addition
(£28,233), as profit, the year’s net earn-
ings were £300,450 (up £13,243). On that
basis the allowance for taxation
(£186,053, down £7342) was 7s. Bd. in
the £. The £300,450 was enough to cover
the pref. div. and show 36 p.c. on the
£750,000 of ord. capital; on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) it
was only 6.6 p.c., the size of reserves
(£3,312,603) being largely responsible for
the high ratio of profit on ord. capital.
The co. is well-shod financially:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Reserves .. .. 2,859,681 3,106,888 3,312,603
Outside interests.. 55,776 60,137 59,547
Sundry creditors* 1,326,550 1,418,009 1,608,021
Inter-co. balances! 193,503 185,711 36,902
Final divs. .. 67,500 67,600 82,500
£5,753,010 £6,088,245 £6,349,573
, Freehold & leasehold 614,103 643,546 723,413
Ships, plant, etc. 1,360,967 1,288,568 1,472,805-,
Government bonds 1,007,222 1,023,142 1,117,754
Shares, etc. . . 1,472,463 1,489,630 1,619,276
Stores . . . . 260,110 255,152 286,196
Sundry debtors .. 1,036,053 1,116,978 1,097,934
Cash .. .. 2,092 271,229 132,195
£5,753,010 £6,088,245 £6,349,573
* Including taxation.
+ Due to variation in balancing-dates.
The net addition of £184,237 to ships,
plant, etc., mainly reflects the co.’s half-
interest in a new tug, advance payments
on a new cargo vessel, due for delivery
about a month ago, and capital expendi-
ture at the collieries. All but £91,696 of
the £1,608,021 coming to sundry credi-
tors, etc,, was covered by the total of
book-debts, stores and cash. So most of
the fine pile of Government securities (up
£94,662) is available for further expan-
sion of the co.’s interests, or such other
purposes as the board may ultimately
decide.
Prospects for the current term are
bright enough. Cargo- and passenger-
bookings remain high, and there has been
a small increase in charges to help offset
the spiralling of wage-rates, etc., and
production and earnings in the coal
trade remain on a high level
Over the last 12 months the market
lengthened its bid for the f.-p. £1 ords.
from 545. to 635. At the higher figure
the return is 4.4 p.c. on a 14 p.c. distri-
bution. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 225. 6d. yield
5.3 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £9 2s. 6d. prefs. and 108 s. 4d. ords.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
THIS old-established Ballarat brewer
has £750,000 of capital to feed in
125,000 6 p.c. “A” and a like number of
5 p.c. “B” prefs., and 500,000 ords. —
the latter includes £250,000 of bonus-
scrip issued in 1951 from a reserve of
£588,173 created by writing up the book-
value of hotel properties. Net earnings
have yet to feel the full benefit of the
big programme of extension and mod-
ernisation of brewery and hotel interests,
including plant, on which about
£1,250,000 has been spent over the last
half-dozen years. The market therefore
prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at 345. (355. a
year ago) to return 4.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c?.
div. basis. The “A” prefs. Vt 20s. 6d.
yield 5.8 p.c. and the “B’s” at 18s. 5.5
p.c. Net tangible cover is £l4 13s. “A,”
£l2 4s. 3d. “B” and 565. Id. ords.
Two of the most important develop-
ments have been (1) purchase, in 1953,
of the Volum Brewery Co., Geelong, for
£421,143, and with it 21 hotels, mostly
in Geelong, thus widening and tightening
the co.’s hold upon the trade in a thriving
industrial centre, and (2) installation of
a large new bottling-plant at Ballarat. At
Geelong, where most of the old plant
was scrapped and replaced by modern
equipment, output more than doubled
during the year to May 31 last, and the
extra beer was sold locally in the co.’s
own hotels. The bottling-plant at Bal-
larat came into production in December
last, and output is nearly equal to that
of the two old units there, and there
has been a substantial saving in costs, the
benefit of which should be felt in the next
accounts.
Sales at Ballarat increased, too, except
for inter-State bottled beer. In this latter
field competition increased as new plant
installed by other brewers came into
production. Prices for raw materials
hops, barley, sugar, etc.—were relatively
steadier, but other operating costs, in-
cluding transport, continued to creep
upward, and are likely to accelerate their
pace during the current term. After
allowing £35,184 (up £1210) for depreci-
ation and £50,650 (up £450) for taxation,
the cautious board wrote net earnings
£16,220 stronger at £99,076:
r —Dividends 1
A B
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
May. Profit. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 10 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1951.. 65.054 7.500 1,562 37,500 8,942 692,250
Surplus sale plant, £2157 .. .. 694,407
Deterred lease premium, £5725 .. 700,132
Profit sale hotel, £48,212 .. .. 748,344
7i p.e.
1952.. 50.007 7,600 6,250 37,500 —• 747,100
Consolidated Figures.
Profit sale plant, £449 .. .. 748,257
Deferred lease premiums, £4533 .. 752,790
1953.. 76.266 7,500 6,250 37,500 25,015 777,805
Transfer to p. and 1. a/c, £24,656 .. 753,149
Profit sale assets, £16,097 .. .. 768,246
Tax overprovided, £41,599 .. . . 809,845
1954.. 82.856 7,500 6,250 37,500 31,606 841,451
Profit sale assets, £6494 .. .. 847,945
Purchase rebate, £6923 .. .. 854,868
Net unexplained additions, £1739 .. 856,607
8 p.c.
1955.. 99.076 7,500 6,250 40,000 45,326 901,933
The £99,076 was enough to pay the pref.
divs. (£13,750) and show 17.1 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 13.8 p.c. and 12.1 p.c.
for the two preceding terms. That leaves
out of the reckoning adjustments inter-
lined in the table. So nothing had to be
strained when the cautious board added
half-a-point to the div., making it 8 p.c.
The £45,326 (45.7 p.c.) of the year’s profit
that remained lifted reserves to £901,933,
or £151,933 higher than paid capital.
The co. owns some 90 hotels scattered
throughout the country districts in Vic-
toria and the N. S. 'Wales Riverina. Last
term a freehold adjoining the brewery at
Ballarat was bought, and the co. switched
from wooden to steel beer-barrels. The
net addition to brewery and hotel pro-
perties was £51,754 and to plant, etc.,
£22,786:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954, 1955.
Pref £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 500,000 500,000 500,000
Reserves .. .. 777,805 841,451 901,933
Mortgages .. 50,000 50,000 550,000
Unsecured notes.. 222,016 222,016 222,016
Overdraft . . 266,562 396,082
Creditors . . 74,582 109,318 109,323
Tax reserve .. 88,496 42,731 56,001
Final div. .. 29,375 29,375 31,875
£2,258,836 £2,440,973 £2,620,148
Brewery, hotel s,
etc 1,601,130 1,625,254 1,677,008
Plant, etc. .. 213,058 351,242 374,028
Stock .. .. 136,239 147,182 133,946
Debtors . . . . 306,751 315,389 335,273
Shares other cos. 347 347 347
Cash, etc. .. 1,311 1,559 99.5T6
£2,258,836 £2,440,973 £2,620,148
Elimination of the overdraft (£396,082
at the previous balance) and the raising
of £500,000 on mortgage for 25 years at
5\ p.c. has given the financial structure
more stability. When the books closed
there was 10s. Bd. of outside money in
the business for every £ belonging to
shareholders.
Prospects of a better showing at next
balance look bright enough, notwith-
standing the upward trend of costs.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
ON a date presently to be announced,
Kandos (paid capital £748,736) and
Australian Cement (paid capital
£947,766), the two equal partners in Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Pty. (paid capital
£2,500,000), biggest cement-producer in
the Commonwealth, will each reward its
shareholders with an issue of bonus-scrip.
Each co. will charge the issue against
portion of the reserves created by
writing-up the book-value of their hold
ings in the operating co.
Kandos will firstly write-up the face-
value of its own f.-p. 16s. shares to £1 each,
and then issue one £1 bonus-share for
each two shares held. The two parts of
this gift will call for £187,184 and
£467,960 respectively, a total of £655,144.
Paid capital will be thus raised to
£1,403,880, on which the board expects to
pay a 10 p.c. div., which will be equal
to 18.8 p.c. on capital as it stood before
the hand-out.
The price of Kandos’s 16s. shares
advanced briskly from 365. 9d. early in
1955 to 565. in June, and has remained
fairly steady since. Last week the figure
was 565. 9d. Net cost, after exercising
the rights and allowing for brokerage,
would be 265. 2d., and the return a satis-
factory 7.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
For the nine years to the close of
accounts in 1954 Kandos paid a steady
10 p.c., followed by 12} p.c. last term,
when the operating co. appears to have
lifted its distribution from 6 p.c. to
8 p.c. :
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 70,098 10 p.c. = 67,386 2,712 529,545
1951.. 69,778 10 „ ~ 67,386 2,392 531,937
1952.. 76,276 10 „ ~ 70,883 6,393 537,330
1953.. 83,020 10 „ „ 74,869 8,161 645,491
Prom tax reserve, £7OOO .. .. 652,491
1954.. 83,328 10 p.c. = 74,874 8,454 560,945
1955.. 102,378 124 „ .. 9ji,592 8,786 569,731
The exact amount by which the holding
in the operating co. has been written-up
(since the close of accounts) has not yet
been announced.
Kandos’s own balance-sheet figures,
which don’t tell much, compare as
follows:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £748,736 £748,736 £748,736
Reserves . . .. 545,491 560,945 569,731
Creditors and tax
provision .. 10,078 3,280 3,506
Proposed final divs. 37,437 37,437 46,796
£1,341,742 £1,350,398 £1,368,769
Shares in Aust.
Portland Cement
Ptv. Ltd. (at
cost) . . . . 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Debtors . . . . 9,000 ' 9,000 9,000
Cash, bonds, etc... 82,742 91,398 109,769
£1,341,742 £1,350,398 £1,368,769
The position is obviously comfortable.
Since the curtain is kept drawn over
the operating co.’s figures, outsiders can
only guess at the real position. To enable
Kandos to pay 10 p.c. on its increased
capital, the operating co. will need to
send along 10 p.c. Over the last half-
dozen years it has been committed to a
programme of heavy capital expenditure,
now practically complete. To help meet
the outlay involved, it increased its own
paid capital by £500,00(1. To meet its
half of this increase Kandos called the
remaining Bs. on 187,184 of its 16s.
shares and drew upon its holding of
Government securities and cash for the
balance.
The operating co.’s two plants, one at
Fyansford (Vic.) and the other at Kandos
(N.S.W.), have a combined annual capa-
city exceeding 500,000 tons cement, over
26 p.c of total Australian production of
the stuff for the year to June 30, 1955,
which was 1,900,000 tons (up 200,000
tons). The Fyansford plant (capacity
over 300,000 tons) is capable of taking
care of all but a small fraction of the
Victorian market. The one at Kandos
(capacity 200,000-odd tons) shares the
N. S. Wales market with five other
producers.
At both centres a lot of materials-
handling equipment and other labor-
saving devices have also been installed,
thus increasing efficiency and reducing
operating costs per unit of production.
Moreover, the two plants are known to
be moderately capitalised per ton of
capacity. All this means much when it
comes to profit-earning in a market
which, though still expanding, looks like
becoming increasingly competitive in the
years ahead.


DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced Imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
s 7
»
v
Z' **o-2,
£
HOp s
0
0
r
o\
tfO;t
CO
180.18
ROW
available
at ail
hotels
The Stout
tfiot keeps
you fit)
v
anew ED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH ft CO LIMITED
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
as at 30th June, 1955
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
LIABILITIES
Authorised Capital—
-300.000 Preference Shares of £lO each .. .. £3,000,000
14,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10/- each .. .. 7,000,000
Issued and Fully Paid Capital—
-211,735 Preference Stock Units of £lO per unit.. £2,117,350
6,105,868 Ordinary Stock Units of 10/- per unit.. 3,052,934
Paid-up Capital £5,170,284
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank).. 3,100,000
Final Dividends proposed payable, August, 1955 .. 194,994
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 206,559
Total Stockholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including pro-
visions for Taxation and Contingencies .
Notes In Circulation .. ..
Balances due to Other Banks
Amount due to Subsidiary "Company
£8,671,837
190,414,198
5,102
2,923
100
£199,094,160
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obligations
of Customers, and others on Letters of Credit, Drafts,
Guarantees, etc.) 12,172,046
£211,266.206
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Notes and Cash at Bankers .. £8,287,302
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks 5,934,903
Balances with and due from Other Banks 339,568
Money at Short Call in London .. .. < 687,500
Treasury Bills —
Australian Government 7,000,000
Public Securities (at or under market value)
Australian Government £15,856,507
Other Government 1,170,910
Local and Semi-Government Authorities .. 133,968
17,161,385
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia .. 28,748,000
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 15,936,050
Stamps 124,958
£84,219,726
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting pro-
vision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful) .. .. 110,648,088
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost, less amount
written off) .. .. .. .. .. 4,226,246
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Company (at cost). (The
Subsidiary Company has not traded at any time, and has
made neither Profit nor Loss; its only Asset is a Deposit
of £lOO with this Bank) 100
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra 12,172,046
£211.266,206
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1955
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
To Expenses—Head Office, 695 Branches and Agencies (includ-
ing Directors’ Fees £4,500) £5,136,204
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes 757,841
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down .. 554,387
To Reserve Fund
„ Amounts written off Bank Premises
„ Dividends —
Interim paid February, 1955
Final, proposed payable August, 1955
„ Balance carried forward
£6,448,432
£lOO,OOO
50,000
£194,993
194,994
389,987
206j559
£746,546
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Commissions
and Other Income after deducting Interest Paid and
Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills Current at balance
date and Appropriations to the credit of Contingencies
Accounts (out of which Accounts provision for all Bad
and Doubtful Debts has been made) £6,448,432
£6,448,432
By Net Balance brought forward £192,159
„ Net Profit for the Year 554,387
£746,546
By Balance £206,559
I, EDWARD COOK, General Manager of THE COMMERCIAL
BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used in the business,
and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account
of the Bank are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in every
particular.
Names, addresses, and occupations of the persons who are the Directors
of the Company at the date of the Statement: WILLIAM SYDNEY
REID, Manufacturer, Melbourne; VICTOR YULE KIMPTON, Flour
Miller, Melbourne; STANLEY THOMPSON EDWARDS, Shipping
Director, Melbourne; COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, Solicitor, Melbourne;
NORMAND HILL, Wool Broker, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the
Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration
punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 28th day of July,
One thousand nine hundred and fifty-five.
Before me— EDWARD COOK.
D. W. STRIDE.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.”
We, WILLIAM SYDNEY REID and COLIN FORSYTH MEARES of
Melbourne, being Directors of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUS-
TRALIA LIMITED, do hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing
Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a
true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs, and that the
Profit and Loss Account exhibits a true and correct view of the results
of the business of the Cojnpany for the year.
On behalf of the Board,
W. S. REID.
COLIN F. MEARES.
Dated at Melbourne this 28th day of July, 1955.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO STOCKHOLDER^
Melbourne, 28th July, 1955.
To the Stockholders of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the
year ended 30th June, 1955, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is
properly drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of the state of
the Company’s affairs and that the Profit and Loss Account is properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the results of the
business of the Company for the year, according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books
of the, Company.
The London Office Return to the 30th June, 1955, duly audited by
Messrs. Jackson, Pixley & Co., has been submitted to us, the Assets
and Liabilities at the Branches being taken on the Certificates of the
Managers and Accountants.
We have received every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and
they have supplied us with all the information and explanations we
have required.
We are, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
E. FOOKES.
Wm. S. PHILIP,
Chartered Accountants (Australia).
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
This big Sydney-controlled
Malayan tin-dredger, operating
in the Rawang and Serendah
valleys, has given a very good
account of itself since repos-
session of its properties after the
Jap occupation. Shareholders
got back into the picture with a
net dividend of 4 p.c. in 1950,
followed by 13 p.c. and two lots
of 17.5 p.c. to the year to March
31, 1953, when the old leases
were worked out.
No. 2 dredge ceased opera-
tions in the Serendah area in
April, 1952, and began work
again on some old sluicing
ground in November, 1953, pre-
paratory to entering the new
Sungei area. Cost of removal,
etc., was £120,713, and was
charged against a reserve of
£300,000 accumulated for the
purpose.
No. 3 machine s topped
digging in June, 1953, and began
commercial production again on
the new Sungei Kuang site in
January, 1955. Cost of removal
and reconstruction was £114,869,
which, together with £23,435
spent on river-diversion, was
met from the balance of the
reserve just referred to. The
remaining £40,983 of this reserve
has been transferred to p. and 1.
account.
Transfer of the two machines
was nicely timed, enabling the
co. to earn enough profit to pay a
10.5 p.c. div. in 1954. For the year
to March 31 last No. 2 dredge
got fully into its stride (No. 3
operated for only three months),
and a profit of £165,964, equal
to 18.9 p.c. on capital, was
earned, and the div. was lifted
to 17.5 p.c.:
Re-
Dredged. covery.
’OOO. t.o. Profit. Divs.*
c.y. Tons. (17.5%)
1952.. 6593 1163.87 £224,307 £153.300
(17.5%)
1953.. 3674 800.48 224,606 153,300
(10.5%)
1954.. 1874 895.92 95,027 91,980
(17.5%)
1955. . 4403 869.05 5 165,964 153,300
* Figures in brackets are net rates of
dividend, after deducting Malayan
income-tax, now 30 p.c.
Tin ore produced last term
was equal to 664.1 tons metallic
tin, which realised £461,447, an
average of £694.8 per ton.
Sundry income (£51,173) was
equal to another £77 per ton,
making total income £771.8 per
ton, of which costs (including
taxation) gobbled £522, leaving a
profit of £249.8 per ton metallic.
On the basis of these figures (in-
cluding sundry income) the co.
could win a profit of over 15
p.c. on capital with tin at £650
per ton at Singapore smelter.
And No. 3 dredge has yet to
make its major contribution to
the pool.
For three months to June 30
last, the London spot price of
tin averaged £S7IB. On August
2 the figure stood at £S76O.
Heavy U.S. consumer buying,
superimposed upon a strong
demand elsewhere, has been
mainly responsible for the rise.
London opinion is that the price
is likely to hold above the £S7OO-
- until the end of this year
at least. By then producers hope
that the international tin agree-
ment will have come into force
—France and Indonesia are the
only two countries whose sup-
port is required to satisfy mini-
mum conditions for ratification.
When the books closed the co.
held cash, book-debts, etc.,
totalling £568,715 to meet
current liabilities (including final
div.) of £152,703. Stores and
spares figures at £273,648.
The price (Sydney ’Change) of
the co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares, which
fell to 9s. 3d. in 1953, has lately
been fairly steady around 13s.
Wellington Alluvials, Ltd.
The co.’s big electrically-driven
bucket-dredge is digging auri-
ferous flats on the Macquarie
River (N.S.W.), and it has
£250,000 of capital to feed. For
the 12 months to April 30, 1950,
a profit of £21,644 was won, and
shareholders were handed 8.3
p.c. For the next three years
losses aggregating £BB,OBO
showed up, and no divs. were
paid. Rising costs, difficult
digging and below-average
ground were the chief troubles.
Then the machine got into
better ground, and handled more
of it. So, despite a further rise
in costs, a profit of £51,588 was
earned in 1954, and shareholders
got back into the picture with
12} p.c.:
Year. Handled.
April ’OOO Yield,
SO, C.y. Fine o*. Profit. Divs.*
(8.3%)
1950.. 2474 9,567 £21,644 £20,833
Loss.
1951.. 2311 7,355 26,744 Nil
1952.. 2218 6,895 46,078 Nil
1953.. 3633 11,551 15,263 Nil
Profit.
(12}%)
1954.. 8234 17,030 51,688 81,250
(16§%)
1955.. 3489 17,728 63,028 41,667
* Figures in brackets are rates of
dividend.
Last term net earnings advanced
by £11,440, reaching £63,028,
equal to 25.5 p.c. on capital, and
the div. was lifted to 16f p.c.
The better profit resulted mainly
from a reduction of Id. per c.y.
in working costs (14.72 d.), due to
larger turnover, and partly from
an increase in the value of indus-
trial diamonds recovered
(£11,214, up £2737).
The average recovery of 2.44
grs. per c.y. was about 81 p.c.
of estimated average value of
ground handled, which included
1,476,000 c.y. of overburden.
During the first half of the term,
when the dredge was in the river
channel, recoveries were 117 p.c.
of estimates; but they later
dropped to around 52 p.c., when
the machine was diverted out of
the stream and met with a rock-
bar and some heavy sunken
timber. The position has im-
proved considerably since the
close of accounts.
During the year 31 days’ dig-
ging were lost on account of
repairs (21 days) and floods (10
days).
When the books closed current
assets totalled £221,910, of
which stores, etc., accounted for
£44,349. Current liabilities, in-
cluding final div., amounted to
£59,297.
Subject to unexpected develop-
ments, prospects of a better
showing at next balance look
bright enough at the moment.
The market, which prefers to
wait-and-see, prices the f.-p. 2s.
shares at 3s. 9d. as against
4s. lid. a year ago.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The stamina of theatre- and opera-
lovers has been tested and not found
wanting in Sydney during the past week,
with opening-nights of “Aida” (Grand
Gala), “La Boheme,” “Separate Tables”
(at the new Elizabethan Theatre) and
“La Traviata” treading, as it were, on
each other’s heels. At “Aida” there was
a great galaxy of opera-stars in the boxes,
sparkling with animation and diamonds
and draped in luxurious furs, such as
milk-mink, which everyone thought was
chinchilla.
Signora Daneo, wife of the Italian
Consul-General, wore a beautifully-
draped gown of grey chiffon in two tones.
Mary Tait, who attended with her father,
J. Nevin Tait, draped a scarlet-lined stole
round a dress of cream-and-gold-striped
grosgrain. Prominent first-nighters Mr.
and Mrs. Don Service, Mr. and Mrs. M.
Selby-Davidson, Mr. and Mrs. M.
Dekyvere and Miss M. Gillespie were
present; also, Dr. C. F. Laidlaw, Miss
Mona Cahill, Dr. Tony Pelly, Miss
Colless, Mr. Noel Pelly, Mrs. Margaret
Fountain and the Count and Countess
Pietrasanta Sauvaigue.
At the opening of “Separate Tables”
there was again a great assembly of
first-nighters, with Mrs. Garnet Carroll
looking very sparkling in white and
scarlet in one of the boxes, Lady Braddon
with General Cariappa in the other. Sir
Frank and Lady Berryman were present,
also Mr. and Mrs. P. A. Yeomans, who
were accompanied by Sir Stanton Hicks,
and who went on to Prince’s after the
show. The crowds which greeted the
opening of the Elizabethan Theatre have
now disappeared, and the brilliant
dressing is becoming somewhat subordin-
ated to practical needs of transport, but
the atmosphere of the theatre remains
romantic, its loftiness and spaciousness
making it one of the most beautiful
theatres (though not in its foyer and
outward aspect) in Sydney.
☆ ☆ *
There was much to interest and enter-
tain the 1000 guests who attended the
International Ball at the Trocadero on
Thursday. Elaborately decorated tables
depicted scenes of national life —Greek-
shepherd dolls tending tiny model sheep,
a model of a Korean temple, a cut-out
of the Statue of Liberty, a Philippine
house and tree made of seashell were
some of the most striking pieces. Pretty
girls in national dress sold programmes,
some wearing embroidered floral scarves
and carrying baskets of flowers; the
Sydney Male Choir gave a beautiful
rendering of Beethoven’s “Creation
Hymn”; and later in the evening a
cabaret arranged by Mrs. Lucille Rath
represented “a trip round the world in
30 minutes.”
Hostess for the night was Mrs. C. M.
Guiney, who, wearing a sheath-gown of
pale-gold brocade, received representa-
tives of all the consulates with Mr. and
Mrs. R. Honner and Mr. and Mrs. J.
Minter, representing United Nations.
Some beautiful dresses were worn.
Mrs. C. R. McKerihan looked very
attractive in old-gold brocade with quilted
embroidery, and Mrs. Klingenberg’s
draped chiffon in oyster and grey was
much admired. Mrs. H. J. Levelt, wife
of the Dutch Consul-General, wore a
beautiful pendent of old Indonesian work
with her gunmetal silk-and-nylon dress
and tulle stole. Among those who wore
short dresses was Mrs. W. L. Christie, in
black velvet; her party included Dr. and
Mrs. R. E. Bell, from Tamworth, and
Dr. and Mrs. John Ward. Mr. and Mrs.
Ronald Lay entertained a large party,
and among the official guests were Mrs.
Jean Daly (recently returned from a ses-
sion of U.N.) and her husband, Dr.
Harry J. Daly.
V V if.
The exhibition of ceramics at Anthony
Horderns’ Gallery caters for all tastes,
and consequently misses that element of
unity which makes an exhibition beauti-
ful in itself. Still, there is evidence of
originality of design in the exhibition,
such as the Egyptian-inspired pieces by
Florenz Potteries (this display includes a
lampshade made by a rubber-plant twin-
ing itself round an iron frame), and the
Italian designs of pieces from Studio
Anna Australia. There are some attrac-
tive tiles and some amusing novelties,
such as spirit-bottles in the shape of
books, and wrought-iron book-ends
holding little pots of cacti. Great
interest has been shown in the exhibition,
crowds attending it every day, and the
practical demonstrations holding people
fascinated at all sessions.
Barbara Toy, whose travel-book
“A Fool on Wheels ” has just been pub-
lished, is an Australian whose years
abroad have been spent in many interest-
ing ways. She has done dramatic work
in England, travelling round with a com-
pany for a while and then working as
continuity-girl in a film-studio. During
the war she drove an ambulance and
wrote plays: “Life Line,” with Norman
Lee. and “The Moon to Play With.”
She then turned to producing (one was
the musical-comedy “Spring Meeting”),
worked for the J. Arthur Rank organisa-
tion, and dramatised several stories of
Agatha Christie. At present she is in
Seyuin, via Aden, after six months of
travelling about the, Persian Gulf, getting
down to work on another book and taking
lessons in Arabic from the local school-
teacher. Miss Toy has connections with
THE BULLETIN, her father having been a
member of the literary staff before becom-
ing the first editor of “The Woman’s
Mirror.” Photo by Paul Tanqueray.
Nearly 600 people attended the recep-
tion held by the Conference of the Joint
Empire Societies at the Trocadero in
honor of Dame Sybil Thorndike, Sir
Lewis Casson and Sir Ralph Richardson.
Lady Richardson, whose young son
Charles (known in the family as
“Smally”) had arrived for his school-
holidays the previous evening, was un-
able to attend, but 16-year-old Jane
Casson was present. The hall was beauti-
fully decorated with scarlet-and-gold
streamers, and the small tables set at
intervals around the room gave the party
a pleasant and somewhat informal atmos-
phere. Sir Ralph made a very amusing
speech and Dame Sybil spoke in a warm
and gracious way of the love she and
her husband had for Australia. Mr. Ivan
Black, representing the Royal Empire
Society, welcomed the guests with Mrs.
H. H. McNall (Victoria League) and Sir
Keith Smith (Overseas League).
☆ ☆ ☆
Flowers in red-white-and-blue and a
multitude of flags made an appropriate
decor for the English-Speaking Union
Ball, held at Prince’s on Friday night to
coincide with the union’s conference in
Sydney during the week. State president
Mr. Justice Richardson welcomed 200
guests, who included Australasian presi-
dent Sir Owen Dixon and Lady Dixon,
America’s Deputy Consul-General Moore
and Mrs. Moore, and Lady Mcßride,
from Adelaide. Younger Set president
Colin Webster flew down from Brisbane
especially for the dance and escorted
Michelle Frenaud, who looked attractive
in black trimmed with silver satin. Other
young people who added to the atmos-
phere of glamor and gaiety were Jan
Williams with Robert Hardwick, Lilian
Herz (wearing a dress of filmy hand-
painted organza), Pat Reed with Richard
Sherwood, Helen Reed and lan Whynd-
ham, Joyce Deane (in flame nylon-tulle
sprinkled with black lace appliques)
partnered by Ron Pascoe.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the cocktail-party given by Swiss
Consul-General H. Hedinger and Mrs.
Hedinger to about 300 guests at the Rural
Bank to celebrate the Swiss National Day,
an interesting film was shown of the
Jungfrau and its railway, which is an
amazing feat of engineering. Representa-
tives of the diplomatic corps, the
Consular corps and the Government, and
of every branch of Sydney’s commercial
and artistic life, were present. If was
pleasing to meet Mrs. Florence Taylor
there, chatting with Mrs. Persia Porter
and Miss Elinor Manning.
MELBOURNE
At the University Centenary dinner-ball
held at the Palais de Danse, St. Kilda,
decorations included the University
Angel crest and flag, and cut-out card-
board figures in colors representing
various faculties, wearing mortar-boards.
The Governor was accompanied by Lady
Brooks, whose gown of delphinium-blue
faille had bead-embroidery on the bodice.
University Chancellor Mr. Justice Dean
and Mrs. Dean (she wearing orchid-pink
chiffons), assisted by Major-General
Kingsley Norris and Mrs. Norris,
received the official party, which included
Sir John and Lady Latham, the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. Frank
Selleck and Mrs. Selleck), Brigadier and
Mrs. R. Irving and Mrs. G. Paton, wife
of the Vice-Chancellor.
Mrs. Selleck wore nylon-tulle in cloud-
pink, the bodice of matching duchesse-
satin encrusted with Silver-thread and
beads. Mrs. Bruce Rose, one of the
ticket-secretaries, chose orchid-pink
satins. Mrs. E. W. Tipping’s wide-
skirted frock was of brocade-patterned
black polished-cotton.
Born in Bendigo, June Barton began
serious voice-study in her mid-teens, and
has won prizes in various competitions.
David N. Martin considers hers a voice
of fine promise, and is going to assist
June in going to London and Paris for
further training. She will sing at the Lord
Mayor’s command-performance at the
Town Hall on August 21, and will have
a spot in the new Tivoli show which
opens shortly afterwards. Photo by
Harry Jay.
At a reception to visiting soprano
Mattiwilda Dobbs given by the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra Subscribers’ Com-
mittee Mrs. Guy Bakewell, smart in a
coat of watermelon-pink wool and dark-
green velour beret, made a charming
little speech of welcome. The guest-of-
honor, who wore an ocelot coat over
a black frock, was accompanied by her
sister, Mrs. June Butts, whose azure-blue
wool frock was designed and made for
her as a gift from her sister while they
were in Spain. Keith Halliday received
the guests, among whom were the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Lady Angliss
(in mink jacket, black frock and small
black velvet hat), Dr. Ivan Maxwell and
his daughter Mrs. Kenneth Hunt, Anne
Howatt, Sybil Hewitt, pianist Vera Brad-
ford and singer Winifred Gardner (Mrs.
Vernon Westley).
When she appeared as soloist with
the Symphony Orchestra conducted
by Walter Susskind, Mattiwilda looked
lovely in a gown of azure-blue
nylon-tulle. The skirt had three wide
tiers, the first fluting-out from the long
bodice, which was embroidered in silver
sequins. From one shoulder was attached
a long stole, which fell across the
shoulders to a long drape to the floor.
This had the hem embroidered to match
the bodice. And such was the perturba-
tion of authority at the possibility of
such sartorial elegance gathering up the
stage’s dust that floor-covering was
provided!
Most charming feature of the dance
given by R.A.A.F. h.q. officers’-mess at
the Palais de Danse was the receiving of
every one of the 800 guests by mess-
president Group-Capt. I. D. Yeaman and
Mrs. Yeaman.
Air-Marshal Sir John McCauley and
Lady McCauley were there, she wearing
a hooped gown of delphinium-blue satin.
Their daughter Anne wore navy-blue
organza. With Sir Laurence Wackett
was Lady Wackett, whose gown of pearl-
tinted satin had a pattern of pansies
worked in gold. The wife of Air-Vice-
Marshal J. E. Hewitt wore a lampshade-
gown of white chiffon shirred in large
folds from waist to hem; Air-Vice-
Marshal F. W. Scherger was accompanied
by his wife, she wearing a burgundy
satin gown and short jacket of pale-blue
Chinese brocade.
Mrs. Teddy Baer (her husband,
Group-Capt. Baer, is R.A.F. liaison-
officer with the R.A.A.F.) chose a black
gown and white flower-embroidered
shawl. Lady Jones, wife of Air-Marshal
Sir George Jones, chose oyster satin-
brocade. A Grecian gown of white
chiffon with silver bugle-beads on the
bodice, repeated in stripes down the
graceful skirt, was worn by Mrs. E. C.
Wackett. With Major-General A. C.
Shortt was Mrs. Shortt, wearing black
chiffon with jet trimming the bodice.
The wife of Wing-Commander D. W.
McCarthy was attractive in a short, full-
skirted frock of garnet-red Chantilly lace.
* ☆ *
Victoria’s Loveliest Mother Quest
raised £95,600 for Prince Henry’s Hos-
pital building-appeal, the winner being
Mrs. Dorothy McNaught, sponsored by
the Leather Footwear and Allied Trades.
Mrs. McNaught’s tdtal was £15,742.
The Lord Mayor (Cr. Frank Selleck) pro-
claimed the winner and place-getters, and
the Lady Mayoress presented the sashes.
After the function Cr. and Mrs. Selleck
entertained all the entrants, their spon-
sors and friends at supper. Among the
guests were chairman of the building-
appeal Cr. Maurice Nathan and Mrs.
Nathan, Mr. and Mrs. Graham Nathan,
Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside and their
daughter Mrs. D. Raeburn-Browne, the
Matron of Prince Henry’s (Miss A.
Morgan), Mr. and Mrs. Tom Fogarty,
the Roy Andersons, Mr. and Mrs. Jack
Horn, Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Anderson and
Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay Cust.
☆ ☆ ☆
At a party and meeting at Chevron of
the American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital president of the
auxiliary Mrs. R. Van Zytveld handed to
Mrs. Alistair Mackinnon, president of all
the hospital auxiliaries, a cheque for
£l7OO, proceeds from the Fourth of July
Ball. Mrs. Mackinnon, on behalf of the
hospital, presented life-governorships to
Mrs. Givon Parsons (wife of the U.S.
Consul), Mrs. G. K. Warner, Mrs.
Richard Chaney, Mrs. M. D. Hudson,
Mrs. Chester Mayhew, Mrs. Benjamin
Bragg.
☆ ☆ ☆
The many spring touches in the
dressing at Caulfield on Saturday made
brave defiance of the bleak day. Notable
was Lady Clarke’s little yellow straw
sailor-hat trimmed with clusters of
mimosa and black velvet ribbon. Another
attractive hat was that worn by Lady
Mayoress Mrs. Frank Selleck. Of jade-
green satin, the front was clustered with
jet trimming. Mrs. Alan Powell’s black
pixie cap was worn with a black suit.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, also chose a black
suit and a matching hat.
☆ ■& ☆
The annual Wool Ball, which helps the
Opportunity Clubs, was held in the
Royale Ballroom, 1200 attending. A
large gilt replica of a ram in front of a
huge map of Australia made of white,
fluffy wool dominated the decorations,
which also included large colored posters
emphasising the “wool” theme, bunches
of colored balloons, and, on each table,
cardboard cut-outs of sheep’s heads.
Wattle and gumtree branches were
arranged, with yellow and white balloons,
in the foyer.
In the official party were Eugene Gor-
man, Q.C. (president of Opportunity
Clubs), club-chairman B. Atkinson and
Mrs. Atkinson (she wearing a soft-blue
satin gown with a matching pink-lined
stole), general-secretary Cecil Greaves and
his wife (whose gown of pink tulle had a
pink guipure-lace strapless bodice) and
public-relations officer Mrs. Iris Clarke
(in a short bouffant frock of white lace,
the strapless bodice sewn with sequins, the
v/ skirt with cabochon pearls).


Missing Friend
TO ETHEL DUGANZIC formerly of 78
Mason Street South Yarra but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband STIPON DUGANZIC has
instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the grounds of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the 30th day
of November 1955 the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs—A. NEWTON SUPER, of
243 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor
for the Petitioner.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Aida”
The Italian Opera Company
began its Sydney season auspi-
ciously with a production of
Verdi’s opera in which the accent
was always on visual splendor.
Part of the continuing popu-
larity of “Aida” rests in magni-
ficent spectacle. There is the
Temple of Vulcan (a fine setting,
bathed in blood-red light and
with the fumes rising from the
incense-burners); the sumptuous-
ness of the apartments of the
Princess Amneris ; the Consecra-
tion Scene and the Grand
Triumphal March; the moon-
drenched Nile, with the Temple
of Isis shaded by palms as a
background for intrigue and
treachery; and the final scene
set in the tomb below the Temple
of Vulcan, in which the lovers
sing their death-farewells against
the heathen chanting of the
priests above.
When “Aida” was first pro-
duced in Cairo in 1871, the in-
evitable cry arose that Verdi had
been influenced by Wagner. The
Italian never was. His increas-
ing stature as a musico-dramatist
was a natural evolution of his
earlier processes. In this opera
he never makes the voice, as
Wagner did, subservient to the
orchestra. And the voices are
well served here in splendid
melodies both for solos and
concerted work.
In the title-role Elisabetta
Barbato sang “Return Vic-
torious” in a soprano that
responded well to the conflict-
ing emotions inherent in it; and
there was suitable despair in the
nostalgic “My Native Land.”
The blending of her voice with
that of Rhadames in the final
duet, “Farewell, O Earth,” was
quite effective. Unfortunately,
the make-up which lent convic-
tion to her Ethiopian origin also
gave her in certain lights an all-
teeth-and-eyeball look, and her
slinkiness was at times over-
emphasised.
As Rhadames, Umberto Borso
sang “Heavenly Aida” with good
ringing head-notes and his con-
certed work was well up to
standard. But as a lover! His
final farewell to his dying love
could have been the speedy
peck of a 30-years-married
suburbanite as he shoots out the
door for the 8.16 a.m. As a
victorious commander, too,
Umberto was- anything but a
martial figure.
Dora Minarchi raised a rich
mezzo to warble of her frustrated
love and she contrived to exude
an immense self-satisfaction at
having been born a Gyppo
princess. In the role of the King
of Egypt, Franco Pugliese used
a richly sonorous basso. Guilio
Mastrangelo, as the Ethiopian
King, looked rather like Robin-
son Crusoe without his hat, but
he sang with spirited defiance in
a weighty baritone.
The orchestra under Maestro
Ziino gave a reasonably good
account of the score.
♦> * *
“La Boheme”
In this second of the operas
presented at Sydney Empire there
stepped on the stage a lover who
was willing to grasp a lady’s
hand as if it wasn’t an adder and
pour out in thrilling tones an
uninhibited avowal of his love.
This was Australian tenor Ken-
neth Neate, who, as Rodolfo,
started the vocal proceedings by
singing in beautiful voice the
famous “Your Tiny Hand Is
Frozen,” and in the ensuing
“Lovely Maid in the Moonlight”
joined his love in a bout of
fervid love-music, both singing
as if they meant it.
The other Bohemians —Ferdi-
nand li Donni, as Marcel;
Augusto Romani, as Colline;
John Shaw, as the musician
Schaunard were all in
character: gay in spite of being
perpetually hard-up, while their
horseplay in the attic, particu-
larly where they confuse the im-
portunate landlord Benoit, was
well managed.
Rina Malatrasi used an air of
helplessness to enhance her ap-
peal and contrived to die with
the right spirit of apology for
all the trouble she had caused.
Her soprano was heard to best
advantage in the plaintive “My
Name Is Mimi.”
Clara Scarangella’s Musetta
had a fair degree of coquettish-
ness, but her Waltz song was
barely adequate.
Animation was very well main-
tained in the Cafe Momus scene
—always a difficult thing—and
it culminated very nicely in a
Septet sung with great verve.
*s• ❖ ❖
Mattiwilda Dobbs
Melbourne’s resident conduc-
tor, Walter Susskind, resumed
his occupation on the Town Hall
rostrum for the sixth of the 1955
subscription-concerts, and an
evening of jollity resulted. Even
the “Planets” suite of Gustav
Holst had an air of gaiety about
it, especially that section of it
which apparently deals with the
amatory adventures of Jupiter
the god rather than Jupiter the
star.
The overture from “The Silken
Ladder,” one of Rossini’s earliest
operas, was a delicious morsel in
which the conductor got the full
rush of Rossini’s music out of
his orchestra. The Fifth Sym-
phony of Schubert, somewhat
subdued in tone and texture, was
another merry item.
Mattiwilda Dobbs was heard
for the first time in Melbourne,
and her singing of both the high
and low notes in the arias from
“II Re Pastore” and “The Magic
Flute” of Mozart was superbly
controlled and gentle. The de-
lightful ease with which she ran
through the whole gamut of
notes in the recitative of her last
song without seemingly taking
breath made her audience
ecstatic.
Add to which, she is a. lovely-
looking woman with a natural
stage-deportment, and if any
adjective is needed to define
her charm and talent it is
“universal.”
❖ ❖ *l*
John Cameron
The Australian baritone,
returned for a tour after six
years abroad, showed at his
Sydney Con. recital why he has
achieved such success in the
operatic, oratorio and concert
fields. His voice, strongly
resonant and produced without
sign of strain even when he
ventures to both limits of the
baritone-range, has acquired
great dramatic force, and his
interpretative powers have
sharpened considerably.
These were well evident in the
recitative “Everything’s Ready”
and the aria “Fools You Are”
from “The Marriage of Figaro.”
The irony, part-humorous, part-
bitter, vented by the Barber
when he believes that Susanna
has deceived him, was unmis-
takably projected. There were
poignancy and anguish in
another fine Mozart air, “Now
That I Leave You, My
Daughter.”
The allegation that Beethoven
didn’t write well for the human
voice is effectively refuted in
the six magnificent songs which
comprise the cycle “To the
Loved One Far Away”—songs
which, as with Mozart’s “Das
Veilchen,” clearly anticipated
Schubert and the lied which was
to come to full flower under the
inspired hand of the younger
man. Cameron sang these with
exceptional insight and beautiful
tone —the best baritone singing
heard in Sydney since William
Warfield.
A bracket of four Brahms
songs included the nostalgic
“Bottschaft,” “Verrath” —full of
dramatic urgency —and “Mein
Maedel hat ein Rosenmund,”
replete with bantering gaiety.
“Two Holy Sonnets of John
Donne,” by Dorian Le Gallienne,
were worth a place in the best
companythere were three
“Don Quixote” songs by Ravel,
strongly rhythmed; some
English art-songs, and some
from Scotland including the
manly “The Bonny Earl o’
Moray.”
Olga Krasnik accompanied
with artistry.
* * *
“The Little Hut”
This, at Melbourne Princess,
is adapted from Andre Roussin
by Nancy Mitford, and appears
to be an Aristophanic approach
to a real problem, with Parisian
undertones suitably subdued for
English ears. It is played by
Marsha Hunt, Peter Gray and
John Lee in a crazily inconse-
quential fashion had it been
played more seriously it might
have been too painful for
modern stomachs.
A financier decides to take his
beautiful wife on a holiday-trip
to the Pacific Islands, but he has
a bachelor friend from whom
he can’t bear to be parted, so he
takes him along, too. There is a
shipwreck and they are cast up
on a tropic island. The married
couple are all right—they have a
nice little hut and he can go
fishing, just as he used to go to
the office, in the firm belief
that he will find his wife waiting
for him when he comes home in
the evening.
The bachelor-friend is not so
fortunate. As he points out,
there are no women on the island
—his friend has a monopoly in
that direction, and what is he
going to do about it? There is
nothing he can do —that is one of
the few things in this life that one
simply can’t share. “Oh, can’t
we?” says his friend. “We’ve
been sharing for the past seven
years, although you didn’t know
it.” So the husband, now
he knows it, goes off fish-
ing, and leaves his wife and
his friend together. The play-
wright proceeds to exploit
this situation with relentless
logic. The repression has been
lifted, with the natural result
that the lovers can feel nothing
in relation to one another
because the principal ingredient
of their love —the taboo upon
it —is missing. With much wit
and great gusto M. Roussin
tosses the ball to wife, husband
and lover to the final curtain.
Marsha Hunt plays the wife in
too giddy a fashion, perhaps, but
she is amusing. Peter Gray as
the cuckold possesses the
comedianship which gets laughs
where the author probably didn’t
want them. John Lee, as the
bachelor, is a bit more
thoughtful.
iji
Borovansky
The Borovansky Ballet closed
its season at Melbourne Her
Majesty’s with a programme of
exceptional merit.
It was exceptional on three
counts. It gave Kathleen Gor-
ham, the company’s most natural
dancer, the fullest scope yet for
her natty little talent as Pine-
apple Poll in the Gilbertian skit
of that name danced to Sullivan’s
music, wfiich, for some reason
or other, sounds like anybody
else’s music, none of the com-
poser’s catchiest, liveliest or feest-
known lyrics having been
included.
As captain of the Hotcross
Bun, Paul Grinwis was also
excellent, dropping his tragic
role more easily than might have
been expected.
Another masterly performance
was Trunoff’s as Fate in “Pre-
sages,” which has been refurb-
ished by choreographer Shabel-
evsky and provided with some
astonishing ensembles.
Nobody likes “Petrouchka”
less than the present annotator,
buj he will give Vassilkovsky
full marks for making the tragic
progress of the clown through
his various transformations less
boring than usual.
A.B.C. Finals
All the mothers and fathers
and aunts and uncles and sisters
and cousins rolled-up to see their
young gladiators enter the arena
for the Commonwealth finals
of the A.B.C. concerto and
vocal competitions at Melbourne
Town Hall —the judges, Tibor
Paul, Colin Horsley and baritone
John Campbell, who won the
competition in 1948.
Romola Constantino tackled
Beethoven’s Emperor Concerto
and, where the orchestra didn’t
overpower it, her touch sounded
beautiful, though too slight for
its setting. The applause was
overwhelming.
Neil Warren-Smith brought
a worthy baritone to bear on
“II pocciato spirito” from Verdi’s
“Simon Boccanegra” ; the recep-
tion was enthusiastic, and he won
the vocal. Margaret Baker’s
soprano coincided beautifully
with the flute in the “Bell Song”
of Delibes; she brought the
house down, and some were
heard to murmur that she should
have won it.
Josephine McKimmie, who
played the Nursery Variations
rather tonelessly and with a
touch that was sometimes heavy,
got a good reception. John Mal-
linson played Handel’s Concerto
in D Minor on the Town Hall
organ, and that instrument was
so surprised at being awakened
from its long sleep that it
responded adequately, if not
brilliantly, to his fingers. He was
well received. Carmel Kaine gave
an appealing quality to the
second and third movements of
the Beethoven Violin Concerto
in D Major, though the fast
movement was rather labored.
She was well applauded for the
way she handled the treble.
Barbara Hoad, who used her
clarinet to good effect in Weber’s
Concerto in F Minor, got a very
good reception, and the judges
confirmed the audience’s judg-
ment by naming her first in the
concerto section.
Roger Holmes played the
Liszt Piano Concerto in E-flat
Major. He handled a difficult
choice with great mastery and
depth of feeling and there was a
birdlike quality in his treble. He
brought the house down for the
second time in one evening and
some were heard to murmur that
he should have won it.
The judges escaped without
injury. In a more robust era they
probably would have been
thrown to the lions.
♦jt
“Lost in the Stars”
Alan Paton’s novel of South
Africa, Cry the Beloved Country,
is the basis of this new Maxwell
Anderson tragedy, presented by
Twelfth Night Theatre in Bris-
bane. The use of a chorus
chanting in Zulu fashion gives
the adaptation the atmosphere
of a folk-opera of the kind that
negroes do well. Sooner or later
a composer will set the whole
piece and make it follow the
success of Gershwin’s “Porgy
and Bess.”
Operatic treatment might dis-
guise the episodic plot that robs
this play of the directness of
Anderson’s earlier “Winterset.”
Relationships between white men
and natives are dealt with in the
story of a native minister’s son
who leaves his bush home for
the adventure of a big city. Quite
unstable, he turns to minor crime,
goes to jail, is let out on parole,
and finally shoots the son of a
European landowner in the
course of an attempted burglary.
The most moving scenes are
those between the old minister
and his repentant son before the
murder-trial begins. Lew Luton
played the son sympathetically,
his softness of voice passing well
for the pleasant brand of Eng-
lish often spoken by natives.
Lionel Jones kept his big voice
within reasonable limits to bring
gentleness to the role of the
minister. Both were successfully
blacked-up, and no unintended
humor spoiled the sombreness
of the play.
Eunice Hanger produced, but
could not get rid of the
monotony of some stretches of
the script. Visually, there was
much that was attractive, and,
against the starkness of a bare
stage, the lighting at times turned
actors into striking silhouettes.
D. J. M.
Artbursts
Two Shows
Two shows jointly occupy the
walls at the Victorian Artists’
Society in Melbourne. Rollo
Thomson’s portraits, still-life and
landscape reflect her teacher,
A. D. Colquhoun, both in their
virtues and their defects. There
is a slight paintiness about them
which does not appear in her
foreign sketches, which, being
sketches, were probably thrown
off without too much reflection.
“Portugal,” “Fishing Village;
Lexioes” and “Fisherman
Returns” have an immediacy
which is lacking in the more
studied efforts. His pencil-
sketches done in England are
charming.
C. W. J. Buchanan was for a
time a pupil of Max Meldrum,
and the master’s influence shows
in “Mountain Stream” and
“Windy Day, Mordialloc.” Most
of the others are overstated.
Talkies
“The Blackboard Jungle”
(Sydney St, James): A stark
study of juvenile delinquency in
a New York slum-school. Glenn
Ford is the new teacher deter-
mined to subdue his class of
hitherto undisciplined hood-
lums ; they respond with every-
thing from mayhem to poison-
notes, Ford’s performance is
outstanding, and Vic. Morrow,
as the vicious leader of the
toughest “scholars,” also turns
in good work.
♦!* *
“Interrupted Melody” (Sydney
Regent): Although this
M.-G.-M. version of the life of
Australian dramatic - soprano
Marjorie Lawrence places most
stress on her courageous fight to
regain the opera-stage and con-
cert-platform after having been
struck dowii by polio, the purely
musical features are some of the
best encountered in a film of this
kind. Excerpts from the operas
in which she first attained fame
are lavishly produced, and the
dubbed-in voice of Eileen
O’Connell does fair justice to the
original. Eleanor Parker, as
Miss Lawrence, captures much
of the enormous vitality which
marked the singer’s career
before her illness. Glenn Ford’s
Dr. Tom King is sketched with
sympathy and understanding.
❖ ❖
“Three-ring Circus” (Sydney
Prince Edward): Comedian
Jerry Lewis muscles into the
sawdust-ring business with Dean
Martin and becomes “king of the
clowns.” As such, he is intro-
duced as “brilliant,” but the
coruscation isn’t noticeable.


Lohnson
wins
a hand
by Raderick m.
Daw
JOHNSON and I cross the
Tibooburra street to book
our seats on the mail. The
dust swirls and eddies
round our feet. It sure is hot.
And why wouldn’t it be? It’s
New Year’s Day and I’ve never
seen Tib. on New Year’s Day
when it hasn’t been hot.
We book our seats with Bill
and set a determined course for
the Family. She’s a low, ram-
shackle joint, the Family, but
they can pull beer all right.
It has been quite a day. Last
night we arrive back in Tib.
from a slight poddy-dodgin’
operation on the Queensland
side. It was a matter of 150
cleanskins at two-quid a head,
which were needed down in
New South Wales. Johnson,
who is a long, horse-featured
cove about six-feet high, is a
terrible feller to booze when
he’s finished a job ; so the night
we get back we are taken
suddenly drunk at about
midnight.
We don’t wake up till midday,
and the first one we see is
Ab. Kerr, the policeman, who
lumbers us for cattle-stealing.
It is a most unpleasant feeling.
However, it’s only a mock-court
to raise funds for the Flying
Doctor, and we get off with a
two-quid fine. I have still not
got over the fright I had when
Ab. says he’s arresting us for
cattle-stealing.
I think the bloke who said a
coward dies a thousand deaths
certainly knew his vegetables.
There are a lot of people in the
bar and Warrigul is making
them laugh about the way
Johnson and I nearly get hung,
in the courtroom, for cattle-
stealing. I think it is one of the
most unfunny jokes I’ve heard
for a long time.
Warrigul is one of the local
cockies, probably the toughest
proposition in the West Darling.
He would be 40-45, tall, gangly,
and essential on your side in a
fight. Everyone likes Warrigul,
but he’s hell on wheels when
he’s playing. I’ve seen Warrigul
drink everything he can lay
hands on for a week with only
five or six hours’ sleep. And I’ve
never seen him walk unsteady
or be thick in his speech. There
aren’t many left like Warrigul.
He’s got a nice little place of
four- or five-hundred square
miles down the track a bit.
He’s laying it on pretty thick,
so I buy him a drink to shut
him up. A couple of others are
in the school. It’s very pleasant.
Warrigul has the idea that we
all oughter go down to Mil-
parinka and prepare for the
dance. They don’t have many
dances at Milparinka, but it’s
a poor old dance that doesn’t
go for two days and one night
up that way. I go out and tell
Bill we’ll catch-up with him next
trip. This should be quite a
dance.
So Warrigul, Johnson, myself
and a couple of others get into
Warrigul’s car and head south
for Milparinka. It’s about 25
miles, but we’ve got some cold
ones in the boot to save us all
from perishing.
'T'HIS Milparinka is a ghost-
town, there’s only the pub
and the town-hall left. The
back-room of the town-hall
houses the post-office. All the
rest of the town is houses with
their roofs off and windows and
doors gone. Inside there is a
fair collection of rubble, old
tins, dead-marines and tiger-
snakes.
We go into the bar and there
is a good cross-section of
villains present. They, too, are
preparing for the dance.
Warrigul takes up his favorite
position in the corner of the bar
on a high stool. This, I think,
is something like. Yes, sir. I
think it is a very good thing to
be in good company, with an
unlimited supply of good beer
at hand and a few quid on the
hip.
Towards evening we clean-up
and have tea. Around nine-
o’clock we have a look at the
dance. Everyone is having a
high and far-off time.
There is a blonde there that
would knock your eyes off, so I
have a dance with her. Then I
have the next three dances with
her just to prove my technique
is still working. I am getting a
poor reception from half-a-
dozen characters who are trying
to win this baby. It is no time
to be buying fights, so I grab
Johnson and we go looking for
Warrigul.
Strangely enough he is sitting
in the corner of the bar, of all
places. We pull-up a coupler
stools and have one. Sure is
dry work that dancing. Old
Ernie is making a damn’ nuisance
of himself as usual. Ernie
arrived-in yesterday with an
Aspro-bottle of gold-dust which
he’d collected over the past three
months.
He had long since spent it,
one way and another, mostly
one way, and for the past four
hours had been bumming drinks
off Warrigul. Now don’t get me
wrong, Warrigul. is a patient
man,, but I’ll guarantee Ernie
would test Job out if Job
happened to be drinking when
Ernie was broke. Warrigul has
had Ernie by the time we get
there, and he leans over the bar
and speaks to the barman. The
barman looks a bit startled but
he does what Warrigul says. I
watch the barman mixing this
drink, is it a micky-fin, or is it?"
Warrigul \hands it to Ernie and
Ernie downs it at a gulp, sucks
his lips and passes-out.
We pick Ernie up, cart him
across the street and lay him
gently in the fireplace of one of
the old houses. Then we get a
large sheet of iron and prop it
up against the opening to
prevent Ernie making a
comeback.
It is one of those nights.
Everyone is happy, there are no
fights, we are all brothers. Most
of us are taken suddenly drunk
at two-o’clock, except Warrigul.
Warrigul reaches that wonderful
stage when no amount of strong
drink will affect him. He is
walking straight and talking
clearly and telling the most
colossal lies ever told in the
north. He tells ’em so well we
all believe him, even though we
know it ain’t the truth.
I guess it would be about
three-o’clock when Warrigul is
leading a section who wants to
buy the bar, and everyone who’s
in stays in, and everyone who’s
out bloody well should be. I
think about people bein’ outside,
and I think of Ernie. I say,
“Hey, Warrigul, what about
Ernie?”
Warrigul says, “Hell! I’d
forgotten about Ernie.”
After some trouble we find a
“larrican”-lamp, because the
moon has set, and we all go over
to find Ernie. Warrigul is
feeling sorry for him, he says,
“Poor old cow, I didn’t mean to
leave him all this time; bet he’s
sober now.”
We go into the old house and
take the tin away. Ernie is not
there. We all allow that this is
mighty peculiar. We each in
turn look up the chimney; no
Ernie. Some fool says “wrong
house,” but we howl him down.
I pick up the lantern and head
round the back with the rest on
my heels.
Ernie is sitting with his back
pressed firmly against the outside
of the chimney. He sees the
lantern and yells, “Watch where
y’ goin’, boys, there’s wells
round here everywhere ; I’ve fell
down two of the flamin’ things
tonight.”
We resurrect Ernie and throw
a few rums into him back at the
bar. After he’s had a few he’s
certain that he’s fell down four
wells. No amount of explaining
will convince him he’s been
climbing up the insides of
chimneys and falling down the
outside. We buy him a bottle
of rum and put him happily to
bed.
TT’S starting to get light, so it’s,
obviously too late to sleep, so
we go back and have one.
Johnson and I grab the next
mail to Broken Hill.
It is a ride to forget. I think
a man is not very shrewd to be
getting tangled-up with people
like Warrigul. Not very shrewd
at all.
We book-in at the Willyarma,
which is a good pub, and suits
us nicely. Next day we cash the
cheque for the poddies and we
get a hundred-and-fifty quid
each, which in them high and
far-off times is a lotter hay.
Yes, sir.
The following day we take it
easy, and why wouldn’t we? We
have got something like four-
hundred quid between us and all
the time about the place. We
make plans in a lazy sort of way,
then call them all off and have
a few beers. I think sometimes
life can be very pleasant indeed.
Mostly a man works like a
nigger for months on end, hits
town and spends the whole shoot
on booze and sheilas. Not this
time. We have got the game
skun. Johnson and I have two
plans. We will do one of two
things: either we will drift
gently down to Renmark and go
fruit-picking or we will go to
Sydney.
Now there are sure to be
mobs of blondes down at
Renmark, and blondes are
something I go for in a big
way; but look at it this way—
there will be mobs of blondes in
Sydney town, too. Won’t there?
Next day Johnson says we
would be wise to give the game
a flutter. This is O.K. with me
except that I have lost an extra-
ordinary amount of money at
this two-up game over the years ;
I distrust .myself. Eventually
we compromise. The deal is
that we take £l5O to the game.
If we lose we go to Renmark
fruit-picking, and if we win we
go to Sydney and buy a jeep.
That night we go down to the
Broken Hill game. It is a very
well-run game, and if you win
nobody leaves the room until
you’re well away.
When, we get there the heads
are falling. I am a tails-bettor,
so I hand the £l5O to Johnson.
I say, “Look, Johnso, take it
easy, boy, maybe these heads are
about to stop. They reckon it’s
been raining heads all night,
maybe we oughter wait a bit.”
Johnson has had just enough
beer to be cheeky; he says,
“Faint heart, Herb, never won
the bonzer sort” ; and he goes
right in and bets £5O on the
head.
Down comes a tail and
Johnson sobers-up a bit. The
heads are definitely failing; I
have got that feeling about tails
that only comes once every blue-
moon.
I’m partially wrong. Johnson
turns the £l5O into £250. Then
the tails start to fall and I take
the original £l5O away from him
and back the tail. Johnson
looks on.
I make about £lOO on the tail
when it comes my turn to spin.
I have never spun more than
four consecutive heads in my
life, so I only spin for a fiver. I
spin four heads and the centre
is worth £BO. I know that I
should have a draw of that £BO,
but I don’t.
Then Johnson says in a loud
voice, “I’ll cover the centre.”
And he does cover it, too.
I spin the most beautiful pair
of tails you would ever see. It
is very nice going ; I’m proud of
Johnso. He has turned his £BO
into £l6O for the cost of a fiver.
This is something like. I con-
tinue to back the tail and
Johnson keeps out; I turn the
original £l5O into £4OO and quit.
Johnson thinks I should go on,
but I talk him out of it. A quid
in town is worth a hundred in
the bush, as the man said.
We go over to the pub and
put all the dough in the publi-
can’s safe. We save ten pounds
for drinking purposes.
The next day we go into
serious conference.
We will first buy the sort of
clothes as befits men in our
position and we shall fly to
Sydney, saunter gently round
the nightclubs, find ourselves
some gorgeous honeys, and have
ourselves a high and far-off time.
Yes, sir.
I buy myself a blue suit for
nightwork and a lot of Arrow
shirts. Taking the view that this
sort of thing may never happen
to me again, I buy a grey and a
fawn suit, twenty pairs of socks,
two pairs of shoes and four pairs
of elastic-side boots. I stick a
fiver in the toe of one of those
boots because I’ve got no faith m
our ability to be financial when
we get back.
I go round the corner of the
shop to see how Johnsons
THE OBSERVER
The autumn storms that wrecked the boats and drowned
the men,
Disturbed the squid under the rotting pier
And scattered long Eights of gulls before the wrack,
Left untroubled the blue-capped kingfisher.
AEoat a splintered bough
I saw him in the morning when the waves
Rolled the loose shells to pearl along the beach,
Examining the spoils with nodding head.
He is a civilised bird—
Though 1 admit he did not show much pleasure
To note amid the scattered bones of storm
A pigeon lying dead.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL.


Choose the MODEL for your JOB from
THE BIGGEST LIGHTWEIGHT
LINE-UP£s£K IN AUSTRALIA
AR-UO Utility, 115" w.b., 12 cult, capacity
(above) AR-112,115" w.b., 12 cwt. Panel Van
(below) AR-120, 127" w.b., 20 cwt. with tray body
and drop sides
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital
Cjties.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
Now is the time to choose your new
truck from the world’s best truck in-
vestments—lnternational trucks. Every
truck in the famous International
family has all the heavy-duty engin-
eered features and long-life perform-
ance that sets International ahead of
every make. Compare each model for
value feature by feature then you
must buy International.
If you’re a tradesman, a carrier, con-
tractor, builder, or farmer or grazier—
there’s an ‘all-truck’ lightweight Inter-
national with just the right capacity
and stamina for your job. See your
dealer NOW!
INTERNATIONAL truck features include:
if 100 max. H.P. engine for heavy loads, if 3-speed
transmission for more usable power, if Proven duo-servo
brakes for positive safety. -Jr Heavy-duty chassis design with
straight frames. -Jr Natural angle steering ensures comfort—
lessens fatigue, -ft Comfo-vision cab—room to spare for three
big men—wide angle vision, if Low-loading for ease of
transfer of loads, if Long semi-elliptic springs for heavy
loads. .. smooth riding, if Nation-wide dealer organization
for competent service, if International trucks are Aust-
ralian-made—ensures full supply of parts.
FMT 702-36
INTERNATIONAL
THE WORLD'S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
) r.'f
CKS
getting on. He is a sight for my
poor, weak eyes, Johnson is. He
is wearing a navy-blue suit, tan
shoes and a purple-striped tie.
Nothing fits. I guess it takes
me two hours un buying all the
things he’s bought, buying other
stuff and getting everything
altered for the long cow. I think
the hell with him.
Then I go and buy the plane-
tickets for Sydney. I promise
myself some fun with this
Johnson when I get these tickets.
I wire Dave Mashado we’re
coming. Dave useter have a pub
in the Hill but he shifted to
Sydney some time back.
Next day we get on the
aircraft and we’re on our way.
The little hostie is short and
dark and beautiful. Johnson
nearly twists his long neck off
looking at her. He is sitting
just forward of me on the other
side of the aisle. When the
hostie comes with the cup of
tea I have speech with her
regarding Johnson.
After that Johnson gets so
much attention it’s not true.
Naturally he thinks he’s doing it
all himself. On his way to the
toilet he leans down and
whispers, “Cop me personality,
Herb, I’m winnin’ this little
sheila like nothin’; boy, oh
boy, ain’t she a honey!”
It’s like that all the trip. One
minute she’s askin’ Johnso if
he’d like a rug round him, and
when he says yes she leans down
and tucks him in. I think he’s
going to faint from joy. Next
minute she’s back with a maga-
zine and asking him if he’s com-
fortable. Johnson turns round
and winks at me and smiles his
enormous smile. When he
smiles his eyes almost disappear.
It’s worth making him laugh just
for the view.
we hit Mascot Johnson
hangs back. I’m on him
like a rocket. I outwait him and
he’s got to go ahead. He pauses
overlong to talk to the hostie at
the door. I give him a shove.
The hostie says, “Good-night,
Mr. Johnson, I hope you feel
better soon.” Then she says to
me, “Good-night, Doctor.”
Johnson is full of questions
but I hustle him into the waiting-
room. He says, “What’s all this
doctor business, and me getting
better, sport?”
I grin at him. “You’ve been
my patient for the last few hours,
Johnso, oP boy, ol’ boy.”
“You lousy bee ; that sheila
thinks I’m too ill to take her
out, I suppose.”
“She thinks, Johnso,” I tell
him, “that you are nuts.”
He stares at me until it sinks
in. Then he makes up his mind.
“I’m goin’ straight in there to
tell her.”
He starts off and I grab his
arm. “She’ll call the cops,
chum, that’s what she’ll do. She
reckons you’re crazy as a march-
hare, I told her so.” I’m laugh-
ing so much it hurts.
Johnson is fuming. “My
mate, my dear old poddy-
dodgin’ mate, my trusted friend,
I’ll get even with you for this
one if it takes a lifetime.”
We grab a taxi and Johnson
sees the funny side of it before
we get to the pub.
Dave Mashado is a large man
with a lecherous turn of mind.
It is the first time I’ve seen him
since he left Broken Hill. He
shakes hands and sits down
behind his desk again. “Can’t set
you boys for accommpdation,
Pm afraid,” he says sadly. “No
staff.”
"Hell, Dave, we gotter stay
somewhere,” I tell him. “How
you short of staff down here?”
“Well, it’s like this, Herb,”
he explains; “we get plenty of
starters, but if they don’t co-
operate my way I fire ’em, and
if they do the old woman fires
’em, so”—he spread his hands—
“we got no staff.”
He is sad about it.
Johnson says, “Now look,
Dave, you got kitchen- and
dining-room-staff, ain’t y’?”
Dave nods.
“Well, if we make our beds
and sweep the room out you got
no worries, eh?”
Dave gives it some thought,
“0.K., boys.” He reaches for
some keys. “She’s all yours.”
We go upstairs, shower, shave
and get into Arrow shirts and
blue suits. I ring the bloke at
Princes’ and book us a table,
Might as well show Johnso the
sights straight away.
The waiter recognises me, and
Johnson looks at me with vast
respect. We get a table above
the dance-floor. It’s a glittering
and exciting sight after years in
the bush. Johnson is very
careful; he watches what I do
all the time. We have a bottle
of champagne to celebrate our
week’s good luck. Johnson
watches the waiter cooking the
steak-Dianne at his elbow. The
champagne is making him
loquacious.
“You could,” he tells the
waiter, “get a job any time up
our way, sport.”
When the waiter leaves
Johnson says, “Yep, I can see
him now cooking for Scotty
Shide on the Diamantina track,
Haw, haw.” The thought
amuses him. He leans over the
ta^le and says seriously. “She’s
not a b & d eat_u P joint, Herb,
* s she?”
“No, Johnso,” I tell him,
“she's not a re °l had eat-up
joint.”
We’re tired and happy when
we hit the tiger-skins that night,
the next few days we take
R Then we spend a
COU P^ e days at the used-car
joints looking for a jeep,
Eventually we find a reasonable
sort a mac hi ne > and after a
l° tter haggling beat the man
down to £250.
She’s a bit of a roughie, I’ll
admit that. But can she move?
I suspect that the previous
owner had her hotted-up. In
straight-and-level flight she will
do seventy-five with her ears
pricked. Johnson and I take
her back to the pub and give her
a coat of green paint. She is a
thing of beauty and a joy
for ever.
Our host Dave Mashado has
employed two new chamber-
maids since we’ve been there,
and his wife has fired both of
them. We are still making our
own beds. Possibly the one
thing old Dave loves more than
chambermaids is Boozer.
Boozer is a damn’ good Boxer
dog which stands about twelve-
feet high. He’s a lazy, big
b , Boozer is. His favorite
occupations are drinking beer
and resting. He is also a bum.
He wanders round the bar
poking his nose into drinking-
schools. Someone without fail
buys him a beer and pours it
out on the floor for him. After
he’s finished he gazes intently
at the floor where the beer was,
then slowly raises his head and
fixes the next buyer with a warm,
unwinking stare. He always
knows whose turn it is to buy.
I think it is a pity that Boozer
is not a salesman, then I think
maybe he is. Lotter salesmen I
know would give their eye-teeth
to have Boozer’s technique.
Johnson and Boozer are great
friends; sometimes I think they
have a lot in common. I guess
you may say it is Boozer who
causes us our next spot of
bother; at least he is a
contributing factor.
There is a baby I know who
is nursing down here; she is a
honey-blonde, but this one is
really something. Yes, sir. She
is maybe five-feet four-inches,
with a trim waist and as neat a
pair of ankles as you’d see east
of Bourke. I am a feller who
always notices ankles, and the
way sheilas walk. Her name is
Annabelle and she has got the
walking-around game sewn-up.
When I am walking down the
street with Annabelle I am
always crooked on myself
because I am not ten-feet behind
her, watching. But you can’t
have everything, can you?
She has a girl-friend called
Mary that Johnson is flying for.
Mary is about twelve-feet high
and as awkward as Johnson, so
they are a pretty good pair. I
always promise myself I will one
night sneak up and watch
Johnson being courtly with
Mary. Privately I think Mary
would do better in New Zealand
standin’-in for a totem-pole.
The girls get Saturday-night
off, so Johnso and I book a table
at Chenky’s nightclub. Johnson
has not been to a nightclub
before and he is very intrigued
with the idea. The girls are
keen because this sort of thing
does not happen all the time.
We rig-up a comfortable seat
in the back of the jeep for
Johnson and Mary, take the
hood and side-bars off and fold
the windscreen down on to the
bonnet. She is a very sporty
little bomb when all this has
been done. We decide to call
her Mehitabel after a cat I
read about one time.
Well, we call for the girls in
Mehitabel and hyper-off to
Chenky’s. Chenky’s is a very nice
sort of a place with a very good
floor-show. The only drawback
is that on Saturday-nights it is
very crowded. The tables are
very close together and there’s
not a lot of elbow-room.
We have a dance while we’re
waiting for our dinner. It is hot
work and I find it’s better to
tread-water in one spot than try
to get clean round and back.
After a while Anna belle and I
go back to the table and drink
some beer. Me, I think this
Sydney beer has been drunk
before, so I order champagne.
Johnson returns flushed and
triumphant and admits it’s a
“sweaty ol’ business out there,
Herb.” Mary is happy because
she has got a man she can look
up to at last, and she sure as
hell ain’t going to let him get
far without her. They lower
themselves like a pair of
dinosaurs into their chairs.
Johnson bumps the character at
the next table, who spills his
beer on himself, and Mary
knocks over her champagne.
All in all, we get out of it
light.
The floor-show starts and a
red-headed thrush begins singing
into a hand-microphone. She
walks around past the ringside-
tables. She stops at our table
and sings just for Johnson for a
few seconds. Johnson is wear-
ing his most foolish expression
and lapping it up. Half-way
through the song the redhead
pauses, leans over and caresses
Johnson’s hair and murmurs,
“Hello, handsome man,” in a
soft sexy whisper; then
straightens-up and drifts away.
She is wearing a green sheath
of an evening-gown with a very
deep, plunging neckline. When
she leans over Johnson I think
for one magnificent second that
{Continued on page 34)


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Ho. 6
>tr
SSr
Pf.
m
* Diggers on their way to the fields
THE GOLD FIELDS
Gold has been found in every Australian State,
but by a long margin the discoveries in Victoria
_ and Western Australia were the richest. j
Production in N.S.W. reached its peak in 1852 and “
was soon outshone by the amazing finds in Victoria,
t- particularly at Ballarat, Bendigo, Beechworth and j
' Castlemaine.
[ Australia’s main periods of gold output were in
t 1852-60, when the annual yield exceeded £11,500,000,
and 1898-1911, when production was about
£13,750,000 yearly. In the first of these periods,
Victoria produced about 87% of the total. The
1_ astonishing richness of the Victorian finds is attested
a- by the fact that, of the 15 biggest nuggets found in
’ Australia, twelve came from Victoria.
The chief fields in N.S.W. were at Cobar, Adelong,
Gundagai and Araluen. In Queensland, the leading
field has been Mt. Morgan (discovered in 1882),
although valuable finds were also made at Canoona -
(1858), Gympie (1868) and Charters Towers (1872).
Tasmania’s Mt. Lyell was opened up in 1886.
Western Australia’s major finds were made towards
the end of last century. The Kimberley field was
discovered in 1886, Yilgarn in 1887, Coolgardie in
1892 and Kalgoorlie in 1893.
In the second of Australia’s main gold periods
(1898-1911) Western Australia produced about half
the Commonwealth total —much of it from the world-
famous "Golden Mile” at Kalgoorlie. -
The discoveries in South Australia have been
relatively small, although the field at Teetulpa (opened
up in 1886) produced £300,000 worth of gold in an
area of a square mile.
Value of the totai recorded output of gold for Australia
since 1851 is some £800,000,000.
* Print by courtesy of the Mitchell Library
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER AND COMPANY PTY. LTD. EST. 1838
GF6
The Twig
that lied
by H.G Burnside
JOE took a long, slow draw
at the loose weed, his lean,
tanned body glistening in
the hot sun. He shook his
head.
“Naw, I reckon it’s nothin’
but guesswork, Matt,” he
drawled. “What else can it
be?”
Matt Hardie, tall, tough, and
taciturn, merely shrugged.
“Haggerty ain’t the only dowser
in circulation,” he growled.
“Must be something in it or
there wouldn’t be so many in
the game.”
Joe glanced at him im-
patiently. “But that don’t mean
a thing,” he snorted. “There
must be tons of the stuff down
there and yet you reckon the
twig’ll only dip when it’s right
on top of it. Why, it’s on top
of it all the time!”
It was a point that had
troubled Matt before; only
now did he think he had hit on
the answer. “Hold on a
minute, though. If it ain’t
water that does it, what does?
And how come only here and
there?”
“Because —well” a frown
darkened his brow. “How on
earth do I know!”
Big Matt went in for the
kill. “I’m telling you, Joe, if
you’d only listen,” he thrust.
“There must be something in
it. Wait till Haggerty’s had a
go—wait and see. I bet you’ll
think different then.”
But Joe Dougan was still
sceptical. “And what if I
don’t?” he asked.
“If it’s the cost o’ the job
that’s worryin’ you”; Matt
began, but Joe cut him short.
“Hell, it ain’t that and you
know it. I’m thinkin’ about the
consequences if Haggerty’s off
the track. I’ve more to do than
dig holes all over the block.”
Matt rubbed the thick edge of
his nose. “Tell you what I’ll
do.” He spoke slowly, deliberat-
ing the proposition in his mind.
“If Haggerty misses-out I’ll lay
you a fiver for expenses. If he
don’t, then you can square him
up for doing my place in a
coupler weeks. What d’ you
reckon?”
Joe stared hard at him. “A
guy could be lucky” he
began.
“Aye, and he can be every
bit as unlucky!” Matt said.
“But if you’re afraid to take a
chance on it. ..”
Joe scowled. The barb had
sunk in a tender spot. “0.K.! ”
he grunted. After a moment’s
pause he asked, “When d’ you
want to bring him along?”
“Tomorrow, if that’s O.K. by
you.”
Joe glared up at the sky.
“Better make it late arvo, then ;
say, about four or so.” He
drew the back of his hand across
his brow. “This heat’s a bloody
killer!”
Matt nodded sympathetically.
“We’ll be here on the dot,” he
promised. “There’s no need
for you, though, if you don’t
feel like it. I’ve got a fiver at
stake, don’t forget.”
Joe joined in the laugh. “I
reckon I’ll be around, then,” he
chuckled. “Who knows, a
guy’ll mebbe pick up a coupler
hints. There must be a lot
harder ways of making a quid! ”
Big Matt shrugged, but kept
his thoughts to himself. If only
Joe wasn’t so damn’ cocky!
“Well, we’ll let it go at that,” he
said, muffling a yawn. “I’ll
have to be goin’.”
Joe took a last, long pull at
what was left of the cigarette
and crushed it to shreds with
his heel. “Yeah, 1 reckon I’ve
had enough myself,” he agreed.
He suddenly grinned. “S’matter
of fact, I figure on doin’ some
dowsin’ myself, right now —all
“Try mine for size, madam.”
the way to McLarty’s. Now
there’s a waterhole if ever there
was one!”
“Aye, you’re right at that,”
Matt nodded. His eyes lit up
with humor. “So handy to have
it above the surface, eh?”
“My oath!”
No longer antagonistic, they
headed for the utility that
crouched patiently on the rough
bush-track bypassing his block.
The utility was Matt’s and he
lived about three miles further
up the track, away from Goanna
Creek. Joe’s place was on the
outer fringe of the small,
straggling township, cheek and
jowl with the bush.
Matt got in and, after some
spluttering protests and visible
exertions, the truck started off.
Joel watched absently as the
ancient miracle lumbered along
the track, every board on its
battered old frame objecting
vehemently to the corrugations
that bumped and shook it. Only
after it was lost in the swirl of
dust it was churning-up did he
break from the reverie.
“Dowser —my eye!” he
snorted, and turned away in the
general direction of the public-
bar of McLarty’s hotel.
TOE paused to roll another
” smoke.
Eight hours in the blistering
heat made a guy ache all over.
Eight hours of solid effort, with
the sweat just oozing out, and
the flies tormenting all the time.
Eight hours of back-breaking
drudgery—scrub-bashing!
Still, it would be worth it, he
decided, his burning eyes
wandering slowly over an acre
that almost looked cleared.
Anyway, it had to be done.
Mebbe, if the wife had been
agreeable, they could have
settled for the adjoining block,
where the gravel could be seen
in great patches from where he
stood. It would have been a
cinch to clear that in half-a-day.
But Nell was all for having a
garden—a decent garden!
Anyhow, the job was almost
finished now.
The growing clatter of some
vehicle, distant but clearly
querulous, made him glance
towards the track. That must
be Matt heading this way now
with old Haggerty. Haggerty,
the dowser! He grinned to
himself at the thought. He was
just in the mood for a good
laugh.
Tapping the loose tobacco in
at both ends, he put a match to
the finished article and drew a
few quick, eager puffs as he
settled down on one knee to
await their arrival.
The utility loomed through the
thinning scrub, bouncing and
rattling as it quivered to a stop
exactly where he hoped his
front-gate would stand some
day. He waved carelessly as he
saw Matt clamber-out, and went
on smoking.
Old Haggerty, cherubic and
starkly human in singlet and
shorts, frisked round behind the
truck to join Matt. Not a bad
sort, the old guy, Joe mused as
he watched them approach.
Used to drink gallons in his
younger days before the debbil-
debbil bug had got into him.
Now he never touched the stuff.
No doubt that would account
for the water act!
“Been keepin’ you waitin’?”
queried Matt. “Had bother
with the damn’ ute ...”
Joe rose from his half-crouch,
grinning.
“I wouldn’t know,” he replied.
“Never carry a ticker myself,
and the sun only works in hours,
not minutes. Hullo, Ned.”
The old dowser nodded
agreeably.
“She’s hot, Joe,” he opined.
“Matt tells me you’re for sinkin’
a well. Nice block you got
here. Any ideas?”
Joe tried hard not to smile.
Everything about Haggerty, his
careless manner of dress, short
but heavy stature and his high-
pitched voice that had a sharp,
pert edge to its questions, seemed
so incongruous. He looked
quizzically, first at Matt, then at
the old man.
“Ideas? How d’ you mean?”
“Where you want it —here? —
over there? —mebbe down by
the track? —depends where you
aim to build.” He eyed Joe
keenly. “I suppose you know
where you are pitching the
house . . .?”
Joe flushed slightly. He
sensed, rather than saw, the dry
smile that flitted across Matt
Hardie’s face and it annoyed
him.
“Yeah right here,” he
grunted. “And I’m not pitching
it; I’m building it! ”
Old Ned seemed oblivious to
the other’s tone.
“Good-oh, we can get a move
on, then,” he said affably. “I’ll
just nip-up to the ute and get
me stick.”
Joe looked askance at Matt
as the old man toddled away,
but Matt kept his uneasy gaze
on the retreating singlet and
pants. Even a dowser might
have his pride.
In a matter of seconds
Haggerty was back, flexing and
tensing the slender, forked twig
as he came. The look of earnest
simplicity on his face reminded
Joe of a kid’s expression when it
got its first toy.
“Before you get on with it,”
he said, “you know the —the
arrangement between me and
Matt?”
“Aye, Matt was tellin’ me—
but you’ve nothin’ to worry
about. It’s no go, no dough—
and I ain’t here to fool around,
neither. You want me to find
you water and I’ll do just that —
if it’s here for the askin’.” He
paused, then added, “Regards
the money, we can dicker on
that any time you like after.”
“Fair enough,” Joe replied,
testily.
“Good-oh, we’ll get on with
it, then,” Haggerty suggested.
“I’m thinkin’ you’ll mebbe want
it nearer the back here for
preference?”
“Yeah, as near by that jarrah
as you can make it.”
Haggerty nodded in agree-
ment. “Right-oh, we’ll have a
go there for a start.”
WITHOUT more ado the old
’ * man gbt down to the
serious task of dowsing, followed
closely by Matt Hardie. Joe
stood where he was, in no mood
to appear overwilling about the
venture. The jarrah he had
spoken of lay only thirty yards
or so away so he could see all
that was going on without
budging from the place.
As Haggerty advanced towards
the log, elbows braced into the
sides, the twig pointed like some
enormous wishbone, Joe thought
he detected a downward move-
ment. ' Frowning, he stared
intently as old Ned came to
within a foot of the dead trunk.
Even as he watched the divining-
rod began to dip, vibrating, and
the next step brought it tugging
straight down as the diviner
stopped astride the log. Pausing
a moment, as though to con-
firm the finding, Haggerty
straightened-up and beckoned
Joe.
Without a word he joined
them. He knew that a grin was
fighting hard to break-out over
big Matt’s ugly face, and the
knowledge did nothing for his
mood.
(Continued on next page )


Missing Friend
WOULD anyone knowing the present
address of JAMES McMULLEN, born
Ireland, who married ANNIE AUGUSTINE
in Queensland about 1925, advise E. O’S.,
C/o Box 484, G.P.0., Sydney?
Divorce Notices
TO LILIAN MAUD GASPARRO late of
King George V. Memorial Hospital Syd-
ney New South Wales Australia and
formerly of 45 Cecil Avenue Plymouth
Devon England A Petition for Divorce
has been filed against you Upon an appli-
cation by letter to the District Regis-
trar District Registry of the High Court
Pearl Assurance House Royal Parade
Plymouth Devon England a copy of the
Petition will be sent If within 57
days hereafter no application has been
made nor appearance entered the Court
may hear the Petition and pronounce
judgment.—E. S. DOBELL, District
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RONALD NORMAN HADLEY late of
Eungai Rail via Kempsey.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARY HADLEY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3343 of 1953
on the grounds of your desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17th of
October 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL JOSEPH MORGAN late
of Brooklana near Dorrigo in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that PATRICIA JEAN MORGAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2105 of
1955 on the ground of habitual drunken-
ness and habitually leaving the Petitioner
without means of support for three years
and upwards and on the ground of
habitual drunkenness and habitual cruelty
towards the Petitioner during three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 7th October 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. MARSHALL,
MARKS & JONES, Solicitors, of 67 Cas-
tlereagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
The
‘WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
How
GOODYEAR
TUBELESS
got so far ahead in
so short a time
AIRTIGHTNESS
IS
ENGINEERED
GRIP-SEAL
CONSTRUCTION
SUPPLIES THE ANSWER
Only Goodyear has it this better-than-ever way to make a tube-
less tyre! Only Goodyear Tubeless tyres have the amazing GRIP-SEAL
construction! This unique Goodyear process fully integrates the
tyre cords with special rubber compounds so that every element is
welded into one single air-tight unit. Air-tightness is really
engineered in to make it the most efficient air container ever put
on wheels. With Goodyear Tubeless you get a tyre that gives vastly
increased puncture protection, greater blowout safety and longer,
safer tyre life. See your Goodyear Dealer about Goodyear Tubeless
the next time you need tyres.
GOODYEAR
TUBELESS and TYRES-WITH-TUBES
. “air
“D’ you reckon it’s right
here?” he stubbed the log with
his toe.
Haggerty nodded emphati-
cally. “Sure. Did you not see
me? I’d say it was about
fifteen-feet down.”
Joe did not reply instantly.
Something about the log when
he had prodded it had given
him an idea. Aware of their
concerted gaze, he nodded
doubtfully.
“I reckon I’ll take your word
for it,” he conceded grudgingly.
“But you might as well give the
rest the once-over now that
you’re here.”
Haggerty grinned amiably.
“Sure, I’ll work back from here
up to the track,” he agreed.
“Yeah, I’d like you to do
that,” Joe grinned. “It’s rather
a long block and I might want
a well up there some day.”
He caught the sidelong glance
from Matt as the big fellow went
off with Haggerty. There was
no doubt in his mind what the
other was thinking. But Matt
was wrong; he would be no
easy convert.
As they trudged back through
the scrub, weaving and circling,
he sat on the jarrah to bide his
time. He must not spoil every-
thing by being too hasty. It
would be done in a matter of
seconds. But they were taking
their time . . .
Now! They had their backs
to him and were almost on the
track. He slid off the log and
got his shoulder to it in one
slick move. A solid push, a
sudden pull, an almighty heave,
and it began to move forward.
He tripped, but followed-
through on his knees, straining
to keep it on the run. He got
it on to the incline ; it was slight
but it helped. Another push, an
unexpected burst, and it lay
where he wanted it. Sore and
out of breath, he cast a quick
glance back at the others, but
they were too intent to notice
what was going on. He might
just have time to nip back and
kick a bit of gravel across where
the log had lain.
In ten seconds he was back
astride the jarrah. Tugging out
the inevitable weed, he set about
shaping a smoke, one eye on
the dowsers. As he drew the
edge of the paper across the tip
of his tongue he saw that they
were turning back.
“Nothin’ doin’?” he asked as
they drew near.
Haggerty shook his head.
“Naw,” he agreed, dolefully.
“Seems to be all down this end.”
“But that’s something!” Matt
interjected. “At fifteen-feet it’s
a cinch.”
“Yeah, s’ long as I have got
it this end,” Joe said.
Matt stared hard at him. “I
don’t get you, Joe. You saw
Ned yourself. You agreed he
was”
“I agreed nothin’!” Joe inter-
rupted hotly. “All I’m sayin’ is
that fifteen-feet’s a helluva
distance to go down for nothin’.”
“Fair enough,” old Ned cut
in. “We’ll give it another fly.”
Without waiting for any
response from Joe, he backed
away about ten-feet and began
the same routine.
Joe watched in silent mirth;
big Matt, anxiously. What
would they say when nothing
happened, the sceptic was think-
ing. Old Ned didn’t know it,
yet, but this was his second time
over this strip! Even now, with
only a yard to go, he could see
the puzzled frown forming on
Haggerty’s weather-beaten face.
Another couple of steps and he’d
be right on top of the jarrah—
and still nothing was happening.
Joe suddenly stared hard.
The fork hovered level with his
eye above the inert trunk for a
split-second, then dipped sharply
down. Haggerty looked at him,
one quizzical eyebrow raised.
“Satisfied?” he prodded.
“But—but”
“Yeah?” the dowser pressed.
Joe turned red. Second-
thoughts checked the protest
that rushed to his lips. The twig
had lied —but he could not tell
them; not now. That would
involve an explanation, and he
wasn’t ready for explanations.
This was the spot he had picked
himself, so now he could go
ahead and dig without further
interference from dowsers. As
for the fiver —time enough to
reveal the trick when he’d struck
water. A guy could hardly
expect to cash-in on methods
that were clearly unreliable!
“Something on your mind,
Joe?”
It was Matt who spoke; he
sounded half-accusing.
“Naw, nothin’—it’s O.K. by
me,” he blustered. “This time
tomorrow week I reckon I’ll be
wallowing in the stuff. Fifteen-
feet won’t take me long.”
“Reckon you’ll need more
than a week!” old Ned inter-
posed, soberly.
Joe glanced sharply at the old
dowser. Was that sarcasm? A
jibe at his prowess with the pick
and shovel? Hell, the old fool
must know that this sand made
for clay and for easy digging.
“Make it four tomorrow
week! ”he insisted tersely. “We
can fix the finances while we’re
at it.”
“Good-oh,” Haggerty agreed,
looking across at Matt.
“Yeah, that’s O.K. with me,”
Matt nodded. “C’mon, then,
Ned, we better hit the track or
you’ll never make Goanna
before the store packs-up.
S’ long, Joe.”
“S’ long,” Joe responded.
“See you anon.”
Some of the heat left his mood
as he watched the truck bundle-
off to Goanna. Yeah, he’d see
them anon. Old Ned would get
his dough sure enough, but it’d
be Matt Hardie, not Joe Dougan,
who’d be doing the paying. The
thought refreshed him and he
took up his mattock. There’d
be no objection to him having a
start now, and, anyhow, it was
so much cooler with the sun on
the way out.
T>ANG!
The blast sent earth and
rock flying into the air, scatter-
ing it in all directions. Joe
winced as a flying piece of flint
cut into his cheek. Just a sliver,
but it hurt.
But it wasn’t the only part of
Joe that hurt. Already two-
o’clock, a week and a day since
Matt and his dowser had been,
and he was still blasting.
Blasting at ten-feet! Only, two
hours to go and not a sign of
water 1
He’d never have believed it.
All that sand looked so easy,
but it had only been a shallow
layer of loamy soil sitting on top
of a pillar of rock, leaving him
no option but to blast his way
through. Now, with the
calluses raised by hours of
drilling burning into his hands,
he lowered the bucket into the
rough depths and let himself
down after it. Then he began
the same dreary task of clearing
away the rubble.
At four-o’clock Joe wasn’t
trying any more. When Matt
and old Ned clattered-up they
found him sitting with his back
to the jarrah, a spent weed
drooping from his bottom lip.
He looked exactly what he was
—a man who had dug a well and
got nothing but a hole.
“What, you made it, then?”
Matt ejaculated, as they reached
him. “Hope we haven’t been
keepin’ you hangin’ around?”
Joe looked up at him sourly.
“Yeah —I mads it!” he
grunted.
Matt exchanged a quick
glance with Ned. The old
dowser just shrugged and looked
across at the hole. Curiously,
Matt hurried over and peered
down.
“Good depth, Matt? ”
Haggerty queried.
Matt wheeled round, his face
blanching.
“Dry!” he gulped.
“You’re a liar,” Joe retorted,
but there was neither anger nor
conviction in his tone; just a
thin edge of irony. “Hell, it
can’t be dry down there —not
after all the bloody sweatin’ I’ve
done today!”
Matt looked sorely perplexed.
“I’m sorry, Joe,” he mumbled,
avoiding the other’s eyes. “But
I’ll pay the lot”-
“I’m thinkin’ mebbe Joe
would rather do the payin’
himself!” Haggerty suddenly
interjected.
Joe glared up at him in brazen
anger, but the old dowser’s eye
was fixed on a spot some yards
along the ground. Joe’s gaze
followed the same direction and
he suddenly knew what was in
the old fellow’s mind.
Haggerty knew, must have
known all along! It was all so
clear now.
He could feel Matt’s puzzled
stare, but he dared not look at
him. Nipping the stub with
his finger-nails, he flicked it
high into the air, but did not
watch it fall.
“Yeah—l’ll pay,” he said
simply, his gaze still on that
patch of ground where yester-
day a dead jarrah had lain.


t*--
"Wv "IVi
C==SS=======^
iir#
OODDDO
?=§?
3
Q O D &
Vr
o
T-
H
' v b
9
m
□u
)s
cran
rm
ryv^
ft
e
nm
rn^
m~\
nrr\
r~r~^
om
rr
nTY%
'Y'ITV
f 6
f-
BP
AVIATION
. ..
°y
CO
SERVICE
j
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
9[5S
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Microbe Hunters,
by Paul de Kruif. —6118.
Words of old bush poem
beginning:—
This is the story of Mulga Jim
And of the dreadful things that happened
to him.
He was a bushman, lank and brown,
Splashing his cheque in Sydney Town.
—6120.
To buy copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm, published by The
Bulletin. —6ll9.
To buy copy of “Bulletin” Reciter.
—6122.
To buy copy of Letts’ Interest
Time-tables (pub. Cassells, approx.
1901).—6121.
Information Sought
Biographical details concerning
Constable John Howe, of Windsor
( N.S.W. ), who, prior to Oxley, dis-
covered, without knowing it, the
Upper l Hunter River?
Accompanied by his wife and their
two children, he arrived as a
passenger in the convict-ship Coro-
mandel on June 13, 1802. He settled
on a grant of 100 acres at Lower
Wilberforce, about eight miles from
Windsor. His wife died in 1808. On
December 29, 1810, he was appointed
auctioneer at Windsor. On May 18,
1811, he married at Parramatta Jane
Kennedy, of Parramatta, by whom he
had four sons and five daughters. On
October 24, 1819, he left Windsor on
a exploration survey to the Hunter
River, which he reached on Novem-
ber 5. At the time he was chief-
constable at Windsor. In 1833 he
was an auctioneer and coroner at
Windsor. Other references will be
found in the “Maitland Mercury,”
Nov. 9, 1927, Nichols’s “Historical
Notes on the Hawkesbury” and
“Royal Australian Historical Society’s
Journal,” No. 14, 1928.
(7) Correct food for goldfish? (2)
How often should the water in their
aquarium be changed ?
(1) Chopped-up earthworms or
mosquito larvae (wrigglers). If these
are unobtainable, finely-shredded raw
beef may be substituted. Ground
puppy-biscuits or prepared foods sold
by dealers are usually fairly satisfac-
tory, but the fish thrive best on live
foods. A little vegetable diet, such
as chopped-up lettuce, cabbage or
spinach leaves, should be added
occasionally. (2) An aquarium cannot
be kept successfully without plenty of
aquatic plants growing in it, and if
these are thriving the water never
requires to be changed. For further
details Roughley’s Cult of the
Goldfish is recommended.
* * * *
Who wrote the lines “I tell thee
love is Nature’s second sun, Causing
a spring of virtues where he shines,’’
and some information on the author ?
Th 6 Elizabethan poet and play-
wright George Chapman (c. 1559-
c. 1634), in his comedy “All Fools,”
published in 1605. Chapman, in all
probability the “rival poet” of
Shakspeare’s sonnets, and renowned
as a scholar, is chiefly known now
for his translation of Homer. (He
also translated from Petrarch,
Juvenal, Hesiod, etc.) Swinburne
and others have drawn attention to
the remarkable quality of his dramatic
works. His principal tragedies were
“Bussy d’Ambois,” “The Conspiracy
and Tragedy of Byron,” “The
Revenge of Bussy d’Ambois,”
“Caesar and Pompey” and “The
Tragedy of Chabot.” His comedies
included “The Blind Beggar of
Alexandria,” “An Humorous Day’s
Mirth,” “The Gentleman Usher,”
“Monsieur d’Olive” and “Eastward
Ho!” He also published the
involved and obscure poem “The
Shadow of Night” (in which he
claimed to receive supernatural
inspiration in and from the night),
“Ovid’s Banquet of Sence” (described
by Middleton Murry as “a frigid
piece of pedantic obscenity” aimed to
compete with Shakspeare’s “Venus
and Adonis”) and a continuation of
Marlowe’s “Hero and Leander.”
His comedy “Eastward Ho!
written in collaboration with Ben
Jonson and Marston, gave offence
at Court, and led to the temporary
imprisonment of the authors.
* * * *
(7) Origin of the word squatter?
(2) Does it refer to a large or small
sheepfarmer ? (3) What is the differ-
ence between a pastoralist and a
squatter ?
(1) It was originally applied to the
cattlemen and sheepowners who
“squatted,” without legal right, on
land outside the region in N.S.W.
where settlement could legally be
established, with view to later secur-
ing full title to the land. Governor
Brisbane encouraged the practice,
disapproved by Macquarie, and
allowed them to settle on Govern-
ment land under legal restrictions.
(2) The squatters usually occupied
large areas and raised sheep on an
extensive scale. (3) A pastoralist is
one who raises sheep or cattle. A
squatter could be any sort of farmer,
though he usually did go in for
livestock-breeding.
* # * *
(7) Some general information on
Ferdinand de Lesseps, builder of the
Suez Canal ? (2) Did he marry, and
how many children had he ?
(1) Born in 1805, at Versailles
(France), he joined the French diplo-
matic service, and while vice-consul
at Alexandria (Egypt) received the
Cross of the* Legion of Honor for
heroic conduct during an epidemic
(1834). Soon afterwards he was
appointed consul at Cairo, and while
there began his plans for constructing
the Suez Canal. In 1854 he was
given (he concession authorising him
to pierce the isthmus of Suez (the
canal being finished in 1869); for his
efforts he received the Grand Cross
of the Legion of Honor and an
English knighthood. In 1881 he
began the Panama Canal; but here
he ran into political and other
troubles; in 1888 the company
formed to build the canal was
wound-up, and the directors charged
with fraud (De Lesseps was later
exonerated of complicity). He died
at La Chenaie, in Berry (France), in
1894. (2) He was married twice. By
the first marriage, to Mile Agathe
Delamalle in 1837, he had five sons;
by the second, to Mile Autard de
Bragard (in 1869), 12 children, 11 oi
whom survived him.
* * * *
What is the difference between
woodcuts and wood-engraving?
In woodcutting, softwood such as
sycamore, cherry, holly or maple is
used. The cutting is done with a
knife and gouges. The knife is held
like a pen, and gives a line
“V”-shaped in section, which is made
try two oblique cuts. The gouges
are like those used by a woodcarver,
but only five or six inches long. The
work is done along the grain, which
is used to heighten the effect of the
design wherever possible. Wood-
engraving is done on a block of
hardwood, usually box, which is cut
across the grain. The cutting is done
with gravers and scorpers very
similar to those used in metal-
engraving. They are solid in section,
not hollow on their upper surfaces
like a gouge, and the front cutting-
face slopes backward at an angle of
roughly 45deg.
* '* * *
What were the circumstances of the
expulsion in the 1880’s of Dr. Chas.
Strong, of Scots Church, Melbourne ?
In 1881 Dr. Strong was asked-to
explain certain statements which he
had made in an article on the
Atonement in the “Victorian Review.”
At first he refused to reply; eventually
he agreed to a resolution which
urged him to make prominent in his
preaching certain fundamental
Christian truths. On August 1, 1883,
he invited to his pulpit in the Scots
Church a Unitarian layman, who
lectured on religion and science, and
spoke against the divinity of Christ
without protest from Dr. Strong.
After various moves the General
Assembly declared Dr. Strong no
longer a minister of the Presbyterian
Church.
* * * *
(i) What steps were taken to send,
back to England from Australia in
the early days those convicts whose
sentences had expired ? (2) Was any
provision made to bring convicts
families to Australia ?
(1) No provision was made for the
repatriation of convicts when their
sentences expired; those who did
return to Great Britain either paid
their way or worked their passage,
or, in the case of some women,
returned as companions or wives of
members of the ship’s crew. (2) No
provision was at first made to enable
a convict’s wife and family to follow
him to the colony; but in 1812 the
committee on transportation recom-
mended further facilities and Bathurst
informed Macquarie that provision
would be made fpr women
recommended as industrious and of
good character to join their husbands.
An experimental group of 10 women
was sent out at public expense. The
Governor was also instructed to
receive applications from convicts or
emancipists who were in a position to
support a family, and a number of
lists were forwarded to England; but
the authorities were disinclined to
incur the risk of having to maintain
these persons in the colony, and the
practice did not seem to have
developed to any great extent.
* * * *
Who was Baron Miinchhausen ?
When was his book first published?
Were any illustrated editions
published? . , . ,
He was Baron Karl Friedrich
Hieronymus Miinchhausen (1720-97).
He served in the Russian Army
against the Turks, and on his retiring
to his estate of Bodenwerder amused
and astounded his friends and rela-
tions by extraordinary tales of his
adventures during the war. A man
named Rudolph Erich Raspe collected
these tales, and, adding many incidents
from other sources, published a book
in 1785 called Baron Miinchhausen’s
Narrative of His Marvellous Travels
and Campaigns in Russia. It was
published anonymously with a preface
by Burger, who was at first believed
to be the author; a second edition
was printed in 1786, and two other
editions rapidly followed. The narra-
tive in illustrated form ran serially
in an English magazine. Cruikshank
and Gustave Dore, among others,
made illustrations.
* * * *
(I) How many fights did Les
Darcy have during his ’ ring career,
and how many did he win, draw and.
lose? (2) Did he fight in America?
If so, whom, and with what result ?
(5) Did he fight other than as a
middleweight ? (4) Where, when and
from whom did he win the world’s
middleweight championship ?
(1) After winning several tourna-
ments at Newcastle in 1910-11 Darcy
had 44 fights for 40 wins and four
losses. (2) Not publicly. There is a
story that he beat Fred Fulton in a
private fight in New York, but it has
never been authenticated. (3) Before
beating Englishman Jack Clark at
Newtown (Sydney) Olympia on
January 5, 1914, Darcy fought as a
welterweight, but he grew into a
heavy middleweight later, and was
hard put to it to make list. 41b. (the
middleweight limit then) in 1916. (4)
It was supposed that Darcy won the
world’s middleweight championship
at the Sydney Stadium on December
27, 1915, from Eddie McGoorty.
Authorities overseas never recognised
the Darcy-McGoorty contest as a
championship, however. Neither
American nor British record-books
mention that Darcy was ever
middleweight champion of the world.
Brief Answers
P.D.: Write A. S. Johnston,
honorary - secretary, Royal Geo-
graphical Society of Australasia
(S.A. Branch), Institute Building,
North-terrace, Adelaide....G.B.H.:
The verse “Shouting for a Camel”
was written by A. B. (“Banjo”)
Paterson and appears in any edition
of The Collected Verse of A. B.
Paterson F.W.: Booralkoo means
“native companion”; Girrahween,
“place of flowers”; Mongabarra,
“pigeon”; and Nerriegundah, “where
edible berries grow” W.M.F.:
Write A. W. Dye and Co., T. and G.
Building, Elizabeth-street; R. K.
Newman and Co., 17 Bond-street;
Sydney Testing Laboratories Pty.,
Ltd., 287 Elizabeth-street; or W. H.
Black, 185 Oxford-street —all Sydney.
....L.J.N.: Some Sydney suburban
suppliers of aquariums and goldfish
are Amron Aquarium, 81 Amy-street,
Campsie; Austral Aquariums, 25
Henson-street, Marrickville; Pacific
Aquariums, 7 Illawarra-street, Alla-
wah; and Toy Fisheries Pty., Ltd.,
3 8 Flavelle-street, Concord.... R.C.:
See Nettie Palmer’s Bernard O’Dowd,
published by Melbourne University
Press J.V.A.: Write Repatriation
Department, the Grace Building, 77
York-street, S y d n e y.... R.L.M.:
Write Alex Morrison, honorary-
secretary, the Historical Society of
Queensland, Box 1811 w, G.P.0.,
Brisbane J.H.: Write Australian
Red Cross Society, 27 Jamison-street,
Sydney....R.W.B.: Yes, the Royal
Historical Society of Victoria has
offered.a prize of £lOO for the best
10,000-word historical essay in the
“Arthur Wolskel Essay Competition,
1955-56.” The subject of the essay,
which is open to all Australian
residents, is “The General Economic
and Political Development of Port
Phillip to June 30, 1851.” Entries
must reach the secretary of the
society at 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
before June 30, 1956... .J.P.W.:
Nellie Stewart, the Australian actress,
died after a snort illness on June 20,
1931 H. 8.: Evelyn Threlfall wrote
two books of verse —Starlight Songs
and Dreams and Other Verses....
W.H.L.: For biographical notices
concerning Rose Scott see Perciyal
Serle’s Dictionary of Australian
Biography; article by Miles Franklin
in book, The Peaceful Army; “The
Lone Hand,” November, 1910; “The
S. M. Herald,” April 22, 1925;
The Bulletin, April 30, 1925; and
the Melbourne “Argus,” February 20,
1937....W.W.: H. V. McKay, the
inventor of the Sunshine harvester,
established McKay’s Harvesting
Machine Co., Ltd., in Dawson-street,
Ballarat (Vic.), in 1891 R.J.M.:
E. A. Petherick, the book-collector
and bibliographer, had done much
work on a “Bibliography of Aus-
tralasia,” but did not live to com-
plete it. Sections of it were published
in the “Victorian Historical Maga-
zine” in 1911 and 1912... .F.8.K.:
“Galloway Advertiser and Wigtown-
shire Free Press/’ 8 Castle-stfeet,
Stranraer, Wigtownshire, Scotland—
J.P.J.: Information respecting the
tuberculosis allowance, and all other
social benefits, is readily available
from the Director of Social Services,
Australia House, 52 Carrington-street,
Sydney J.G.: Write Standards
Association of Australia, Science
House, Gloucester-street, Sydney....
H.L.: Melba’s Gift Book was edited
by Franklin Peterson .and was pub-
lished in 1915. The entire profits
from the sale of the book were
devoted to the Belgian Relief Fund.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned un ‘
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.H.8.: When you’ve finished
gnawing that bone you might try
us with a fresh idea—
Girls have treated us that way, too,
but we don’t tell the whole world... •
H.N.: Can’t share your enthusiasm
for “thrilling adventures with Myalls
in the dead heart of the continent.
.D.P.: You’ve been hammering
at the same nail for six months.. • •
T.C.: You sprawl, over a large area
in a slipshod fashion F.D.L. :Un
thing about your stories— they re
always sure of a mention m tn
column. ... F.W.C.: “Confound you,
Jasper Jarman, you double-dyed
villain! You’ve stolen my wifejmd
ruined my daughter. You ve
That will be sufficient, thank y°“-•; •
C.F.: Get down to the yarn without
airing your vocabulary.. •
Not for us “the stirring, story ot an
epic fight between justice andM*
powers of evil J-H.a - i 1
the best missile you can find witn
which “to assault our defences y
might as well beat a strategic retreat
V.H.B.: “Is there the slightest
possible chance there .
inch of space in your highly-regarded
journal where this little poem Jj
find a resting-place? res, r g
here:
With every stifled cry
My soul sinks in the mist.
I fear that I shall die
Ere the dawn of to-morrow.
Oh, could I find some ear
In which to pour my sorrow.


Mechanising Our Winter Sports
APPRECIATING THE ALPS
By GRAHAM PHILLIPS
SK.IING offers you a
complete mental holiday.
This is because it is
impossible to think about
anything else while you are
actually skiing.
Some people are exhilarated
by the business of shooting down
an icy mountain at 50 miles an
hour —if possible, without break-
ing a leg. Others are frightened.
I personally am one of the
frightened ones. But in either
case all usual worries are effec-
tively turfed out of the brain.
You will soon be able to have
much more enjoyable ski-
holidays in the Australian Alps
than has previously been
possible. This is because our
Alps are at last becoming more
widely mechanised. Ski-tows
are being installed on a number
of new runs.
You think of skiing as being
an effortless pastime combining
high speed with the grace of a
seagull; but without a ski-lift
it consists mostly of toiling and
moiling to the tops of moun-
tains. If you resemble any bird
at all it is a Muscovy duck.
It may take twenty minutes to
get to the top of a mountain, yet
only two or three minutes to
zoom down it. With the instal-
lation of even the most primitive
tow, however, the balance is
reversed. Only a small part of
the day is wasted in climbing the
mountain and the remainder is
left free for you to enjoy being
exhilarated, or frightened, as the
case may be.
Ski-tows are among the most
extraordinary forms of human
transport. In their simplest form
they consist only of a rope which
revolves round a motor-driven
drum at the top of the mountain
and a pulley affair at the bottom.
As the rope moves up the
mountainside you grab it and
slide up, too.
Since skis average about 9ft.
in length, it takes a bit of practice
to grab the rope and start moving
uphill without falling over.
Things are not too secure even
once you’re moving. Engines
that drive ski-tows have usually
seen better days driving some-
thing else. What with age and
the cold climate, they stutter and
stop a good deal. The track
beneath the tow-rope is, inevit-
ably, no longer snow but solid
ice. So it’s really quite easy for
a novice to fall over more times
going up the mountain than
coming down it!
According to a popular Alpine
rumor, this falling-over on the
ski-tow is highly profitable to
anyone who makes a point of
being around when the snow
melts in summer. The tow-path
is said to be a sort of Golden
Mile of lost property—ballpoint-
pens, diamond-rings, etc.
The moving-rope type of tow
has many disadvantages. For one
thing, it hurts the hands when
you grab it, even with gloves on.
And an enthusiastic skier can
wear out a pair of gloves on the
skirtow in a day or so. The
sport is quite expensive enough
without that.
The Chalet at Charlotte Pass
in the N.S.W. snow-country has
a more elaborate breed of tow;
but I’ve never been able to catch
it in working order. It’s a solid
job. The motor has all the
sterling workmanship of its day,
circa 1900. But there’s now
some understandable difficulty in
getting hold of spare-parts. I
believe guests who happen to
be engineers sometimes put in a
very busy holiday indeed.
To be fair, I hear that this
venerable machine worked
perfectly all last winter. I have
seen it often —not working—and
it appears similar to one I used
in Switzerland ; one, in fact, of
which I was secretly terrified.
With this kind of tow the mov-
ing cable is high in the air. From
it dangle long springs, and from
each spring dangles a T-shaped
affair of thin metal.
No ski-tow ever stops for you
to catch it. You grab one of
these T-affairs as it swings past.
The spring to which it’s attached
begins to stretch, giving you a
moment’s respite. During this
moment you place the crossbar
of the T across what you hope
will prove to be your posterior’s
point of balance. (It’s important
not to actually sit on the T, but
to merely lean against it. Any
attempt to sit on it will land you
flat on your face.) By this time,
and often sooner, the spring
comes to the end of its tether,
and the T-thing, in a very
peremptory fashion, starts
moving uphill again. The effect
is as if an outsize in goats had
butted you good and hard. It
is very important to be ready to
move off.
In Europe I seemed almost
never to be ready to move off. I
Would sprawl at the feet of the
skier catching the T behind me.
This always seemed to be a
beautiful European woman who
had obviously been born on skis.
Her sticks would dangle by their
thongs from her wrist, and she
would be smoking a cigarette as
she waited to catch the lift. This
she was unable to do until I'd
wriggled out of her way. It
was impossible to tell from her
expensively enamelled face
whether she was looking con-
temptuous or not.
In the French Alps I struck
a variation of this type of lift in
which the T-thing was replaced
with a sort of hockey-stick. This
you straddled like a witch her
broomstick.
Another French variation was
the most difficult of all to hitch
on to. And it was reserved, with
Gallic whimsy, for the beginners’
slope. In this case the T and
hockey-stick were replaced by
large triangles hanging from the
cable by their points. The bases
of the triangles swung past at
about the level of a man’s chest,
and you grabbed one point with
each hand. After a second, the
triangle did its best to jerk your
arms out of their sockets and
occasionally, I was told,
succeeded.
Apart from this, its peculiar
difficulty lay in that, instead of
shoving you from behind like
any other ski-tow, it dragged
you head-first from above.
Whereas a propelling force
applied to your posterior does
at least keep your centre of
gravity more-or-less where it
belongs, a force dragging from
above seems altogether to dis-
pense with centres of gravity.
In time one learnt to re-
arrange the layout of one’s body
to conform with the require-
ments of this tow. A careful
study of successful travellers
revealed the necessity of looping
one’s back like an angry cat’s,
of keeping arms and skis as far
ahead of everything else as
possible.
It took some time to master
this. The moment the tow
started in the morning a crowd
of French people hurried
towards it to laugh at beginners
falling off. One old couple
used to bring their lunch.
One thing all these ski-tows
have in common: you pay to
use them. There’s even a super-
luxury kind for which they sock
you about 10s. a trip.
This luxury type, however,
whisks you up a mountain the
height of which begins where
Mt. Kosciusko leaves off. * It
took more than half a day to
ski down again. Mercifully, in
view of distance to be covered,
this tow offers very much easier
travelling. Hanging from its
cable is a cabin holding about a
dozen people and their skis all
standing upright.
It was a spectacular trip. The
cabin would swing past the white
mountain’s unthinkably huge and
almost vertical walls. Groups
of descending skiers looked like
brightly colored fleas.
We swung past a row of red
flags. These marked a point at
which the mountain abandoned
all pretence of just, sloping and
turned into a thousand-foot cliff.
“Beyond the flags you must not
ski, otherwise ...”
This type of ski-lift has
another inestimable advantage.
If, when you get to the top, the
mountain doesn’t seem to offer
quite such tempting skiing as you
had expected you can get back
into the cabin and go down the
way you came up. This costs
another 10s., of course, but
some people seem to think it
well worth the money.
This was at Chamonix, which
lies almost in the shadow of
Mont Blanc, the highest peak in
Europe. It is noted for per-
pendicular ski-runs, and I would
myself have gladly forked out
10s. to escape that mountain.
“John, catch me!”
Unfortunately I was the only
“Monsieur Anglais” in the
party —an attempt to explain
that you came not from England
but Australia seemed to be
regarded by the French as split-
ting hairs —so I felt some hazy
British obligation not to turn
tail and run.
I can’t imagine how they got
it up there, but this Alp has a
luxury hotel built on top of it.
And to this hotel we repaired
for lunch. Next to myself, the
worst skier in the party was a
young French boy. During the
meal he raised his glass to me
and, in French, said: “Our last
meal.”
For once I understood French
instantly.
To my private satisfaction, the
Australian Alps offer no thrills
of this order. The oldest
mountains in the world, they
have been eroding since the
small hours of geological time.
Their once-jagged European-
type pinnacles have long since
been worn away. In winter, the
view from the top of an Aus-
tralian Alp suggests a landscape
of rather impressive blanc-
manges.
Nonetheless, they not only
offer excellent skiing, but are
annually covered with more
snow than the whole of Switzer-
land. It is a great puzzle to
some Europeans why we don’t
make more use of them.
The scarcity of accommoda-
tion and its high cost keep many
people away. And, because of
the way our snow-country hotels
keep burning down, accommoda-
tion is now scarcer than ever.
However, during the last few
years, skiers have taken to build-
ing their own accommodation —
some of it quite lavish, too.
Moreover, the Tourist Bureau
is throwing the N.S.W. snow-
country wide open to private
enterprise. Sooner or later
private enterprise will realise that
big mountains are big business.
It’s reasonable to suppose a
development similar to America’s
will then take place here. Over
there, skiing was until recent
years a comparatively unpopular
sport. It was the installation
of ski-lifts which made it boom
overnight.
Summer visitors to the Snowy
scheme, too, should enable at
least one new hotel to run at a
year-round profit. Also, the
scheme’s roads are opening up
valleys hitherto inaccessible to
skiers, and improving Alpine
transport generally.
I have said little about the
technique of skiing for the very
good reason that the particular
technique I learnt has recently
gone. completely out of date.
From what I’ve seen of it, the
new ski-technique is easier for a
beginner to learn. This will help
further to popularise the sport.
Within the next couple of
years regular mountain-towns
should really get going. A
mountain-resort could mush-
room into being, in the way that
Surfers’ Paradise has done, in
a very short space of time.
People who love mountains in
Europe continue to love them
after they come to Australia.
For this reason our ski-resorts
have, and will continue to have,
a pleasantly cosmopolitan flavor.
Now, cosmopolitan flavors
are all very well ... so long as
they can answer in English
when spoken to. I had a humili-
ating experience the night I
arrived in the fashionable St.
Moritz. I had gone there, not
because it was fashionable, but
because it happened to be the
easiest place to get to. I had
been in Italy sampling spaghetti,
Old Masters and vino rosso, and
found, when it was time to
move on to Switzerland, that
there was a direct bus to St.
Moritz from Milan.
The bus-ride was hair-raising.
The road through the Alps is
mostly hairpin-bends, and all
drivers place inordinate faith in
the klaxon-horn. Over there
they allow the kind that plays
a bugle-call, and after a while
it gets to sound like the Last
Trump.
The setting sun suffuses the
snowy peaks with an apricot
light which is downright vulgar.
To finish things off, the Swiss
Customs officials at the border
wear musical-comedy uniforms:
capes, hjjts with plumes . . .
At night St. Moritz is a cross
between Paris and Fairyland.
The streets are covered with
blue, red and purple snow in
accordance with whatever neon-
sign is closest. Most signs were
in German, but one was a
reminder that, for rich Ameri-
cans, Europe is a suburb of New
York. The sign was that of the
Elizabeth Arden Salon.
I went up to an elderly Swiss
gent, with a red nose and
managed to get across to him
the name of the hotel I wanted.
With great kindness he took me
there himself.
On the way I foolishly tried
to make small-talk in vile
French. I’d been taught at
school that all Swiss people
spoke both German and French.
I said:
“Nous avons parti de Milano
a quatre heures cette apres-midi,
par l’autobus.”
He said: “Sorry, I not speak
English” . . .
When developed, mountain-
towns here would offer many
pleasures in addition to skiing.
It’s safe to say that a good half
the visitors to European Alpine
towns don’t go skiing at all.
They’re there to get above the
clouds of the lowland, to restore
their health with Alpine air, or
simply to enjoy the night-life.
This approach to Alpine holi-
days is, of course, scorned by
those grim devotees who seem
actually to like the whole thing
to be as unpleasant as possible.
However, hundreds of miles of
snow-country will remain un-
touched. Tlie ardent athletes
can slog out into it and build
remote, uncomfortable huts in
which to spend remote, uncom-
fortable holidays.
An American authority lays
it down that a ski-holiday is one
of the few upon which an
unchaperoned young lady may
accompany a gentleman without
damage to her reputation. In
Australia I have known people
of the most unquestioned
respectability to do this on all
sorts of holidays, but I cannot
help puzzling over the American
approach to this matter.
Is it that skiing is expected
to make a gentleman too tired to
forget his manners? Or is it
that the young lady is supposed
to profit by the example of the
driven snow around her?


mm
mm
m
m
mm
m
m
mm
J %
Nuffield Universal
Tractor, equipped with
hydraulically operated
Horndraulic front-end
loader and hay sweep,
shown stacking hay.
Such jobs become easy
work when you use
the Nuffield Tractor
and its many and
varied "approved-
after-test” matched
implements.
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS?
The Nuffield. Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 11 x 36 rear and
6.00 x 19 front tyres, costs only *
£978/18/- (Cap. city).
At this competitive price, your Nuffield tractor
includes the following standard equipment:
Hydraulic lift, 3-point linkage, p.t.0., belt
pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter
and horn, headlight, agricultural rear light, tail
and side lights, heat gauge, hour meter, foot
plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters.
Other tyre sizes available: 13.50 x 24R, 6.00 x
16F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x 16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x
18F; 11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies
accordingly in price.)
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement
Division, Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range
and “Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME
l
ADDRESS.
Place X in this square if for school project.
C 5
<3SE2fc
BMC
@|
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
_
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
%
I'SPvlh >
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTV. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUS'TRALIfI) PTY. LTD,
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, diverticulitis
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For ehroint
conditions. Postal note for 1-/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
I Maloney St., Mascot.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Spring racing in. Sydney will
start on Saturday week at
Warwick Farm. Main events
will be the Hobartville Stakes
for three - year - olds, the
Campbelltown Handicap for the
best sprinters and the August
Handicap for middle-distance
horses. In all three New
Zealand-owned and -trained
horses will provide keen com-
petition for local topliners.
Latest New Zealand contingent
to arrive in Sydney includes Red
Craze, one of the Melbourne
Cup favorites; Gold Scheme
(Sydney Cup winner); Sir
William; Romanos, staying
three-year-old by Midday-Sun
(imp.)—a classics prospect; His-
toric Era and Sumersette. Red
Craze has won 11 races and has
earned £12,345 stakemoney.
Segenhoe (Scone, N.S.W.)
studmaster Lionel Israel was at
Canterbury Park to see Corsini
win the three-year-old Maiden
for colts and geldings and My
Hali add to his sprint-record by
scoring in the Clissold Handi-
cap in record race-time. Israel,
whose Nilos have proved top
winners, bred both Corsini and
My Hali. The latter is by A 1
Dakhil (imp.). Corsini is by
Emperor (imp.), French-bred
sire by Djebel. Dagmar, dam
of Corsini, is by Medieval
Knight (imp.) from Rapina, a
half-sister to New Zealand
stayer Rapine. My Hali was
ridden at Canterbury by Neville
Sellwood, who had previously
won the Clissold on Regoli,
Osborne and Persian Prince.
The stable thought so little of
Passion Queen’s winning pros-
pects in the Canterbury Three-
year-old Maiden for fillies that
it iqvested a few pounds only,
but, as 250 to 1 was secured in
odd places to £4 and similar
amounts, the return was hand-
some for a small outlay. Apart
from race form being poor, she
drew the extreme outside barrier
position, and that also scared the
stable. However, Passion Queen
showed pace from the jump and
hung on well to beat the
strongly fancied Sky Bound and
Nice Rose. Passion Queen is
by Persian Book (imp.), as is
Sky Bound.
Grand Charles and jockey J.
Thompson are a successful com-
bination. Thompson has won on
the four-year-old Wayside Inn
horse at last three starts, and
also was successful on him at
Hawkesbury in June. In win-
ning the Canterbury Handicap,
Grand Charles scored first-up in
open company.' He’s now ex-
pected to tackle the Metro-
politan, in which he has a
featherweight 7.4. His earlier
races will include the Newcastle i
Cup on September 3. In the
Canterbury event favorite Gypsy
Tide failed by only half a head.
Top Ruler’s third indicated he
is about ready to win.
Seacraft, which changed hands
about a month ago for more
than 2000gns. at auction, came
from the rear of the field for a
brilliant success in the 1\ fur-
longs Canterbury Welter. Sea-
craft, which has had two starts
for his country owner, S. Lork-
ing, for a second to Compound
at Canterbury and his latest win,
was heavily backed from sixes
to fours on the strength of a
brilliant track trial, in which he
beat stablemate Joy Lad, who’s
particularly smart over a sprint
course. Sellwood had to use all
his vigor on the five-year-old
to land the big bets.
The Australian Steeple, to be
run at Caulfield this Saturday,
may be won by Blue Lagoon
from Cyrette and Footbolt.
Cyrette has had a real toughen-
ing-up for the event. He has
been produced on three succes-
sive Saturdays for as many wins.
He led all the way to win the
Godfrey Watson Steeplechase, 2
miles 3 furlongs, at Caulfield
last Saturday.
Having her first run in four
months, Melbourne filly Arbo-
lado, from the Des Judd stable,
evidently wasn’t thought to be
ready to win Caulfield’s Second
Elsternwick Stakes, as she went
out at a long price. She had an
easy task over another “roughie,”
Filante, and the favorite, Fel-
pura. Arbolado, who cost
D. J. S. Mackinnon 750gns. as a
yearling, is one of the few of
the progeny of the imported
Woodburn (by Bois Roussel) to
win; his oldest gallopers, how-
ever, are now still only young
three-year-olds. She was bred by
Victorian studmaster D. Reid at
Glen Cairn, Nagambie.
Murray Grand, who opened
his winning-account in runaway
style in the Albion Park (Q.)
First Maiden, is by Murray
Stream, winner of 19 races and
£28,762 in stakes; dam, Real
Grand, is by Grand Prodige.
Murray Stream’s wins included
the Metropolitan (twice) and the
Doomben Ten Thousand.
+ ■+"
Shirley Strickland, surmount-
ing stupid -obstacles to her going
abroad again, this time to race
at Warsaw —one requirement
was that the Westralienne, a
married woman, should be
chaperoned—has proved herself
fleeter than ever. She won the
80 metres hurdles, defeating the
champions of East Germany and
the U.S.S.R. in the final, with-
out having to reach her Olympic
record of 10.95ec., and went on
to vanquish the slickest of all
the Iron Curtain girls in the 100
metres, slicing a tenth of a
second off Marjorie Jackson’s
world record of 11.4 sec.
* * *
Australia duly won the Davis
Cup inter-zone semi-final against
Japan, and now meets Italy.
Rosewall won the first singles
comfortably, but it took Hart-
wig all his time to beat Japanese
champion Kosei Kamo. Hoad
and Hartwig easily in the
doubles.
* * *
Victorian roadman Eddie
Smith, probably Australia’s best
at the moment, won his second
successive 125-mile Australian
professional road-cycling cham-
pionship, raced round Centennial
Park, Sydney. Riding well
within himself throughout, he
broke away with 10 miles to go,
and won easily. Time 6hr. lmin.
* * *
N.S.W. won this year’s Clax-
ton Shield, baseball’s equivalent
to the Sheffield. It defeated last
year’s winner, Victoria, in the
final, 7-1, winning with a
brilliant batting effort in the
seventh inning when six runs
came from seven hits. Eighth
time N.S.W. has won the shield.
* * *
Australians excel in most
sports, but one they have never
mastered Soccer football.
Whatever the cause may be—
perhaps it is that the finest foot-
ball types prefer other codes—
they have never reached inter-
national SoCcer class; and
judging by their feeble displays
against teams from Hong Kong
and Vienna, except here and
there in mining towns, standards
have not improved for half a
century. Always keen on
“gates,” the crowd in control
are arranging a match between
the ever-victorious Austrian and
Chinese sides. It will be a dread-
ful showing-up for Australian
“form”; but that doesn’t matter.
* * *
One of the two V.F.L. matches
of the day was the thriller
expected. In a strong wind
Geelong led Footscray 4.7-0.2
at the first change; ’Scray
levelled at 6.7 at half-time;
Geelong went further ahead in
the third quarter; ’Scray, ip a
sizzling ,last term, making up
most of the leeway, but still a
couple of points shy at the finish,
10.16-10.13. Melbourne, in a
erne-sided game, thrashed Essen-
don 16.23-7.12 in the other
encounter. Wherefore Essendon
and Footscray remain level on
points, but ’Scray scrapes back
into “the four” ahead of the
Dons on percentage.
* * *
“Old Rep.,” on a Union
jubilee:
The Australian Rugby Union team
touring New Zealand is celebrating
something of a jubilee. Just 50 years
ago Stan Wickham captained an Aus-
tralian team that did well across the
Tasman.
The team was managed by Jimmy
Henderson; and Billy Hill, now
retired from chairmanship of the
Sydney Turf Club, was a young and
promising forward in the side. Bede
Smith, of Orange, who passed on
recently, was the scoring winger.
I was present at the Test in
Dunedin, which town had been so
deluged during the preceding week
that every known ground was at
least a foot under water, and up till
10-o’clock on the day set down it
looked as if the match would be
cancelled —a desperate step for N.Z.
Rugby. But rescue came from the
Tahuna Park Trotting Club; and
there, out in the middle of its course,
the game was played to a big crowd,
who stood around the hastily
marked-out ground.
The Australians were well beaten.
The spearhead of the Maorilanders’
attack was Colin Gilray, who lately
retired from headmastership of Mel-
bourne Scotch College. Colin had
then just returned from a season in
Scotland, where he got his inter-
national cap. In the game in ques-
tion, he was well served by A.
Wrigley, of Wanganui, of whom N.Z.
saw little afterwards. Wrigley’s
brilliance was not lost on the then-
budding League, and he went off to
Yorkshire with a substantial fee, but
soon faded out.
While the game at Tahuna Park
was on, the famous “original” All
Blacks were returning from their
devastating tour of the U.K., led by
Dave Gallagher and coached by
immortal (in N.Z.) Jimmy Duncan.
Later the two All Black teams were
matched to settle many a past
argument. The result was a heavy fall
for the men who had put the name
of All Blacks at the top of the
Rugby scroll, so that the defeat of
the Australian team of 1905 was not
without some credit to themselves.
If the present boys do as well, it
will be something of a guide as to
the state of the older code today,
for it is still on top over there.
The present tourers in N.Z.
won the opening skirmish —a
tough one—beating Thames
Valley-Bay of Plenty 14-9.
In Sydney’s annual R.M.C.-
G.P.S. Rugby Union engage-
ment the Duntroon boys held
too many guns—2s-6. In a hard-
fought Union grade - round,
Gordon downed Norths 18-6;
University tossed “the bolters,”
Parramatta, with a last-minute
try, 11-8; Rand wick beat Manly,
16-14; Easts had a 15-6 run
against Drummoyne; and skin
and hair flew in St. George’s
12-9 win over Eastwood. With
two rounds to go, the semi-
finalists are decided Uni.,
Gordon, Easts and Saints.
* * *
“F.C.”: Smiths must go for
some other sport than Rugby
League. In Sydney’s Rugby
League comp, there are seveji
O’Briens who play, and till
recently there was another—a
ref. (he has now given it away).
But I’ve yet to come across a
Smith, although Joneses are
fairly prominent, with three.


Answer Should Be "Yes"
Can We Sell More to Canada?
By LOUIS KATIN
FROM; year to year there is
a marked, though not
violent, fluctuation in the
trading relationships of
Australia and Canada. Total
purchases swing up and down
in dollar-value, the quantities of
individual items soar to new
heights, or drop to new
depths. One factor, however,
remains constant over the years
—an adverse balance of roughly
to $1 in favor of Canada.
The figures for the last three
Canadian fiscal-years are typical.
In 1952 Canada sold $5O million-
worth of goods to this country,
but bought less than $l9 million
worth in return. That huge gap
was somewhat narrowed in 1953,
but last year the ratio was again
widened, nearly $46 million-
worth of goods streaming from
Canadian ports across the
Pacific, and less than $25
million-worth flowing in the
opposite direction.
Why is it that Australian
farmers and industrialists can-
not sell more of their products
to so prosperous a member of
the same family, despite enjoy-
ing most-favored-nation tariff
treatment?
There is no single answer to
this question. There is, for
example, no prejudice or hos-
tility against Australian goods.
On the contrary, they go down
well in Canada, especially the
raisins.
For each product that Aus-
tralia sells, or wants to sell, to
Canada there is a separate
answer. Each product has its
own sales-problem to settle.
Take, for instance, the export
to Canada of non-sparkling
wines. In the first place, out-
side of Quebec province, the
Canadians are drinkers of rye-
whisky and Scotch rather than
wine. Secondly, Canadians have
their own developing wine-
industry, mainly located in the
Niagara Peninsula. Further, the
Australian exporter has powerful
rivals in the field, France taking
the lead.
Last year Canada imported
nearly $1 million-worth of non-
sparkling wines from France
and just over $500,000-worth
from this country. The U.K.
sent $450,000-worth, and Italy,
Portugal, Spain and South
Africa rather smaller quantities.
But in regard to brandy, France
swamped all opposition, sending
six times Australia’s $200,000-
worth.
Like Australia, Canada has
settled over a million European
immigrants since the war, and as
many of these are by custom
wine-drinkers they tend to raise
the annual consumption. But
the grim obstacles which the
provincial Liquor Commissions
put in the way of adequate
advertising and window-display
undoubtedly have an adverse
effect on imports.
By adroit public-relations and
advertising where possible, com-
peting vintners are overcoming
these difficulties. Considerably
cheaper than many European
wines, and well liked by
Canadian consumers, Australian
wines require far more boosting
than they at present receive.
Wool exports to Canada have
their own small circle of com-
petitors to contend with—Great
Britain, New Zealand and the
United States. But, in this
instance, a more insidious factor
than competition is the tendency
for Canadian garment-makers to
use, on an ever-increasing scale,
either 100 per cent, synthetic
fibres, or mixtures of synthetics
and wool.
The clothiers’ heavy demand
for both synthetics and mixtures
is supplied by the country’s own
textile-industry and by the
d r es fl |tice £ d ,h ":
masse during the Korean war,
when the price of wool
rocketed; and, on account of
cheapness and appearance it is
now firmly established in
popular favor.
Australia’s $5 million wool-
sales to Canada last year repre-
sented a $1 million drop com-
pared with the 1953 sales. Yet
there is an excellent chance of
the loss being made good, for
quality-texture clothing tends to
draw a growing public in
Canada, despite the inroads made
by the synthetics’ side of the
industry.
Response to Australian efforts
to self worsteds and serges has
been disappointing enough, even
the $137,000 sale of last year
being smaller than the previous
year’s. Exporters know that,
even though the high quality of
their offerings is recognised,
they still have to reckon with
the conservatism of the im-
porters, who prefer to buy
worsteds and serges from the
suppliers they have always dealt
with- -the U.K. (which last year
sold them the colossal total of
$2l million-worth), Italy, France
and the U.S.A. It’s a matter of
holding on until importers realise
the value of the Australian
product.
In this the Aus-
tralian exporters may
well be encouraged by
the example of their
Italian opposite-
numbers, who exhib-
ited profusely at the
Toronto International
Trade Fair last year,
and are doing a
heavily expanding
trade in bolts with the
Canadian importers.
A trump-card in
the Canadian market
is the Australian
raisin and its satel-
lites, the dried-currant
and the dried-apple.
Canadian housewives
and chefs last year
used s4£ million-
worth of Australian
raisins, a total which
“upped” the 1953
figure by 16 per cent.
The dried-currants
and -apples easily outdistanced
those of the U.S.A., their nearest
competitor.
Australian raisins are sold on
a substantial scale by the super-
market chains, which like to buy
in bulk and pack the fruit in their
own transparent bags. , This
method of marketing gave the
Australian raisins last year a 75
per cent, lead in dollar-sales over
their strong Californian rivals,
which mainly come packed in
printed cartons.
Austr?Jian canned-pineapples
also did tery well last year, earn-
ing $600,000, an encouraging sum
considering Hawaii’s nearly $4
million hold on this market.
Canadians are becoming some-
what more aware of Australian
foodstuffs in the retail-stores,
especially so since their purchase
of $2,300,000-worth of Aus-
tralian canned-beef last year. A
campaign to orientate extra
public attention in this direction
is to be launched upon Greater
Vancouver’s 750,000 population
in September. Co-operating in
an Australian Food Week,
departmental- and chain-stores
and supermarkets will devote
press and radio advertising
space-time and window- and
counter-displays to all Aus-
tralian eatables. A special pub-
licity committee will go into
3r a a,a the m
Brn.sh for t e
campaign is a natural one. au
««*merffdise goe toough
°Radian Pacific ports to Aus-
and goods va i ued at about
3*5 ’ cent . of that figure enter
tbe same ports from Australia,
most i y to be sold in British
Columbia. Even though ship-
p j ng freight-rates have increased
severely in the past year between
the two countries, it is stiff
cheaper to send goods all the
way by sea to Eastern Canada
ra ther than unload them at Van-
couver and forward them by
rail.
Actually, Australia’s greatest
dollar-earner in Canada last year
was raw-sugar for refining,
Canada, a member of the British
Commonwealth Sugar Scheme,
bought more than s7£ million-
worth of the Australian product,
thus making this, country her
third-biggest supplier of raw-
sugar, with British East Africa
first and British Guiana second,
It is clear that, apart from
wool in the grease or washed,
what Canada needs most from
Australia is food-products. Both
importers and consumers are
favorably inclined to Australian
foodstuffs, perhaps on the
grounds of family loyalty, and
certainly on the grounds of price
and quality combined. How can
Canadians, then, be persuaded
to increase their purchases?
Australia has two Trade
Envoys in Canada, one based on
Montreal and covering the
eastern provinces, the other on
Vancouver and covering the
western. It is not their job to
run publicity- and promotional-
campaigns, yet undoubtedly far
more sales-publicity is needed
throughout Canada, couched in
both French and English.
The Food Week Scheme is an
instance of what can be done,
but the advertising for it is to be
initialed by the participating
Canadian firms. With this
example in mind, it seems logical
to suggest that Australian
exporters, individually or by
groups, should step-up their
advertising - budgets in the
Canadian market, and intensify
their efforts to get the importing
wholesalers and retailers to
co-operate.
Because of consistent British
advertising, the Canadian con-
sumer is always aware that he
can drop into any departmental
store, supermarket, drugstore or
corner grocery and buy food-
products and manufactured
articles coming from Britain
What Australian export ng
d , Q Australian
P ?f plenty of Canadian tourists
could be- induced to take the
voyage to Australia that would
be a superb way of making the
prodqpts better known—and with
the added advantage that it
would cost the exporter nothing ,
But not many Canadians are will-
\ n S to embark on the long
journey merely out of curiosity,
and a Vancouver travel-agent
told the writer emphatically that
this shyness will continue as long
as Australian hotels are what
they are and the plumbing what
tt is. Otherwise, he thought,
» S all ?° S 2SM round-
trathc tor an all in souo r
trip, starting from Vanco
?>an Francisco,
Another hurdle to be over-
come before the trade-gap can
be filled-in is the problem of
shipping. Although there are
now four or five lines sending
vessels to eastern and western
Australian ports, the frequency
of runs is still unsatisfactory,
and delays occur en route, too.
Thus, one freighter arrived at
Vancouver six weeks overdue
from Sydney,
Among Canadian shipper?,
Australian ports, have a bad
turnaround - reputation. One
western timber-director bluntly
said the turnaround was “the
worst in the world.” Although
others did not agree, they
thought there was much room
for improvement.
More shipping may also be
the answer to the young manu-
facturing industries which are
struggling for a foothold in the
Canadian market. Australian
hand- and machine-tools, on
account of price and the super-
lative quality of the steel
employed, are forging a reputa-
tion with Canadian users. But
some tools cannot be promised
delivery for as long as nine
months, and, as one import-
agent‘in Canada explained, “Our
customers will not wait that long.
U.S. exporters are on the door-
step and they make the sales.”
Or, again, the answer to this
problem may be: Release more
steel for the exporting industries.
In addition to tools, an increas-
ing trade is. being done in
Australian-made replacement-
parts and accessories for British
cars, for similar reasons of price
and quality. Here, the market is
largely confined to western
Canada, where small British cars
have a big sale. But the market
is also, interestingly enough,
extending to western U.S.A.,
where thousands of British
sports-cars take the road between
Seattle and Los Angeles.
Quite an assortment of non-
mechanical manufactures are
being sold through Canadian
agents. Toy koala-bears have a
following, and are being given
good displays in the store-
windows as articles from
“Down Under,” but they have
not achieved the mass sale
hoped for. Although cheaper
than a comparable teddy-
bear, they are not cheap
enough for the mass outlets of
North America.
Torches, fishing - tackle,
records, pruning-hooks, and
blackwood veneers are some of
the other wares dribbling in small
lots across the Pacific. There
has been some attempt to sell
wool garments, but the makers
can hardly hope to keep pace
with the swiftly changing
fashions that thrust across the
border from New York and
Chicago.
However, it is pleasant to
record that Australian exporters
have sold £l6O-worth of cricket-
gear to British Columbia, where
the last surviving rebels against
baseball hold out in the
municipal parks.
In return for cricket-bats,
foodstuffs and wool, Australia
buys from Canada numerous
items, but mainly timber, news-
print, motor - vehicle parts,
aluminium and asbestos.
Although the home industry now
produces 70,000 tons of news-
print yearly, the cutback on
dollar-imports will not affect the
purchase of Canadian newsprint
in the present year. Similarly,
Canadian timber-exporters do
not expect to suffer. From the
point of view of goodwill alone,
this is just as well.
West-coast fishing interests,
however, are worried over the
failure of Australia to buy more
than a token supply of canned-
salmon, and an Ottawa Trade
Envoy in this country has
written sorrowfully that “a
generation is growing up who
have never tasted Canadian
salmon.”
Cariadian fishermen, casting
their nets in political waters,
would like to see high-level con-
ferences held between the two
countries to ensure greater
mutual trade. They have hinted
that Ottawa ought to send a
delegation here to negotiate
reciprocal-trade arrangements, as
was done last year with Britain.
Britain then agreed, among other
things, to buy many more
Canadian apples, while Western
Canada agreed to buy British
steel-rails. It was all very
gentlemanly, with no vulgar
bartering!
Perhaps, after all, the fisher-
men of Canada’s Pacific coast
have hit on the best overall way
to get to grips with the trade-
problem. In the meantime, a
step in the right direction has
been taken with the formation
of an Australian - Canadian
Association, whose function will
be to promote between the two
countries greater knowledge of
each other in both the social and
commercial spheres.
This move has the blessing of
Sir Douglas Copland, Australia’s
High Commissioner in Ottawa,
and the chairman of the new
association is Mr. James Duncan,
head of the Massey-Harris-
Ferguson motor concern. The
innovation is timely enough, and
its fruits, let us hope, will be dis-
cernible in trading figures in the
not-distant future.


mum.
■
WCffH
m
makes Holden the car for you
In all the things that matter most
in a car you can expect more for
your money in Holden. The
main reason is that Holden is the
only car designed and built for Australia.
Only Holden offers the ideal combina-
tion of six cylinder performance and six
passenger comfort with high resale
value, 30 m.p.g. economy and out-
standing dependability as reported by
many owners.
The best proof of Holden long life
and trouble-free performance is given
by owners themselves. Early this year
Mrs. A. W. Amiatt of Wilson Street,
Harbord, Sydney, wrote to GMH
saying that: “/ have a 1948 Holden
Sedan , and I have just clocked over
300,000 miles. It has never had a rebore
and is still running on Standard rings.
It is on the road all day every day, and it
never gives me any trouble of any kind ...
Petrol consumption is still very good.”
Holden offers further economies with
ready availability of low-cost, factory
guaranteed parts and service. No other
car combines all the advantages of
Holden and at such low cost. Holden is
Australia’s Own Car—Australia’s Finest
Value. In view of the very heavy demand
may we suggest that you place your order
as soon aS possible.
HOLDEN *
Australia's Own Car
¥r REGISTERED TRADE MARK
LIST PRICES
FROM £B7O PLUS SALES TAX
• Convenient GMA C hire purchase available • Air Chief is the GMH car radio
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE '• PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealera throughout Australia
New wonders of
"silent sound"
In many U.S. factories to-day,
motionless drills, operated by
high-frequency sound waves,
bore through the hardest
metals and alloys. August
Reader’s Digest Jells the
amazing story of s *
sound,” now being use *
everything from boring
in teeth to taking spots off
clothes; from bloodless birai
surgery to measuring t
on beef cattle. .
You’ll And SI absorbiuK art
Icles in August Reader s Digest,
including “Ways to V >
motion sickness, D
afraid of sentiment, plus
25-page book c0 “? c “ E ,” t t rama
-The Lonely Sky.” eP>e *ama
if newsagent,
and bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NUCLEAR WAR
r pHE warning and appeal
issued by Earl Russell
and eight other eminent scien-
tists (including Einstein) is,
as London “Daily Telegraph”
comments, “batfling in its
simplicity”:
“All future world-wars, they
[the scientists] say, will be
fought with thermo - nuclear
weapons. Widespread use of
such weapons will destroy the
human race. Therefore, any
future world war will destroy the
human race. Stated in this form
the argument is irrefutable.
“Having laid down this
dreadful proposition, the scien-
tists advocate the following
solution. They urge Govern-
ments to acknowledge publicly
that their ‘purposes cannot be
furthered by world war’ and ‘to
find peaceful means for the
settlement of all matters of
dispute between them.’ As so
often happens when the scientist
advises the statesman, the
diagnosis of the problem is a
good deal clearer than the
proposed solution.”
The general tone of comment
in both British and American
papers is that the scientists’
appeal is as commendable as it
is unrealistic. Thus “New York
Times” asks “what can cure this
sickness of our generation?”:
“The answer that Lord Russell
and his associates have given can
be effective only as it persuades.
More than this, it can be effec-
tive only as Governments have
reason to trust one another. For
this answer is not merely to
prohibit nuclear weapons, which,
as the Russell statement predicts,
would certainly be resorted to if
war broke out. The answer is
an agreement not to go to war.
Such an agreement would not be
an act of sacrifice. It would
simply accept the fact that this
ancient institution must be dis-
carded because it can no longer
produce any result beneficial to
any nation; because, in grim
truth, world-wide war would
now be suicide for all concerned,
aggressors and defenders alike.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” sees
“no harm in trying to drive
home this lesson, but the scien-
tists do not seem to have any
new ideas of how to avert the
holocaust”:
“Renunciation of weapons
would be as effective as the
renunciation of war made about
30 years ago in the Kellogg pact.
There is no use calling for the
abolition of nuclear bombs
unless we are told how to deal
.with other armaments as well,
and how to remove international
distrust and suspicions. From
this statement one would not
think that the leading countries
have been grappling for years
with the problems of dis-
armament, and lack of progress
is not due to ignorance of the
fearful power of scientific
weapons.”
That still leaves what New
York “Herald Tribune” calls
“two grim alternatives” —the
impossibility of waging war and
the seeming impossibility of
abolishing it: “It is just possible
that man will creep between the
horns of that dilemma, extending
the area of peace, enlarging the
underlying agreements, relaxing
tensions and diminishing fears.”
Possibly the most outstanding
comment on the scientists’
appeal is that of London “Time
and Tide,” which, in an admir-
able expression of human
courage and intelligence, noted
that “respect for the intentions
and the character of the signa-
tories cannot conceal the
untimely simplicity of the
document”:
“We are solemnly warned that
war with thermo - nuclear
weapons may mean the extinc-
tion of all civilisation as we
London “Daily Mail”
THE FIFTH POWER
know it and even of human life
on the planet. This is, alas, no
news, and the scientists under-
estimate the intelligence of
statesmen, soldiers and the
general public when they
assume, as they seem to, that
only they are aware of the
dangers. It is not unawareness
of the danger which prevents
any simple action being taken
to prevent, or to put beyond the
bounds of possibility, a final
conclusion sp horrible as that
which may loom before us.
“There is in this statement —
as in many others less well
phrased and less weighty, that
have been made from time to
time as man’s capacity for
destroying his own kind grew
greater that ingenuousness
which often characterises the
political thought of even the 1
cleverest men whose ways have
been cast outside politics.
“It seems to be often assumed
that statesmen are ignorant of
the danger and are therefore
doing nothing about it. But in
fact statesmen, and possibly
even more soldiers, have as clear
or clearer an idea of the ulti-
mate consequences of thermo-
nuclear warfare than scientists.
To what else are all their
endeavors in the foreign field
bent, if not to the prevention of
war?
“It is an adolescent fantasy
unrelated to the facts to imagine
statesmen as some kind of
irresponsible breed, light-
heartedly settling the fortunes of
millions round a green table
before hurrying off to some
splendid speech-making lunch.
It is an adolescent fantasy to
imagine that signatures and
scraps of paper rule the destiny
of man. Unhappily this point
of view, greatly put about by
poets and romantics, has an
irresistible appeal to all those
whose abilities and judgments,
however great, have not been
exercised on problems of poli-
tics. The present appeal from
the scientists, though couched in
terms of the greatest thoughtful-
ness, has none the less an
element of this fantasy about it.
“The question of war and
peace is not and has never been
a simple matter. No civilised
people, no responsible statesman,
has wanted war for its own
sake. If that were so, it might
indeed be possible for the priest-
leader-scientist to persuade them
of a simple doctrine: abandon
your weapons, do not fight and
all will be well.
“But the issue is not simple;
there are things to be saved by
fighting and things to be lost by
surrender, and these things
throughout history have by no
means always been trivial. Very
often they have been worth
more than life itself, which was
why men fought for them. This
is an element in the situation
which remains constant, whether
the weapons are bows-and-
arrows or hydrogen-bombs. It
is an element for which the
signatories of this appeal have
too little understanding. There
are those who feel that the
extinction of all the values for
which they care would be more
terrible than the extinction of
human life on the planet,
“Why do they feel this? They
feel it because they are con-
vinced that there is something
in man greater than the mere
‘unfeathered two-legged thing’
whose body needs food and
warmth and enjoys comfort and
care. We have seen throughout
history men and women who
thought themselves better dead
than condemned to live in a way
from which their souls revolted.
Why, then, is it surprising that
there are many, now, who in the
last resort will take a risk involv-
ing the physical survival of the
entire human race, when they
feel that its spiritual survival is
doomed otherwise?
“Things have not yet got so
far and there is sober reason to
hope that they never will. On
both sides of the divided world
there is great intelligence, and,
although neither party will yield
in essentials, both are fully
aware of the enormous disaster
that must ensue from a war with
thermo-nuclear weapons. Safety
lies in the parity which will
preverit them from using a
Torm of attack which is bound
to prove equally fatal to both.
“Among the statesmen on
either side in the divided world
there is anxiety and responsi-
bility and the desire to prevent
a total disaster. Why else the
organisation of U.N.0., or the
meeting at Geneva? These
things may seem to the unpracti-
cal idealist very inadequate safe-
guards, but they are practical
safeguards, whereas the call to a
general renunciation of thermo-
nuclear warfare is not practical.
It postulates a world undivided,
a world in which nations can
entirely trust each other, a
world in which both sides respect
the same rules. The world
today is not like that. Scientists
and many other men of goodwill
may wish that it were so, but
statesmen must work as best
they can in the situation at
hand.
“Another element in Earl
Russell’s statement calls for
comment. What hope is held
out to us if we avoid the present
danger? We are told that
humanity has before it a choice
between ‘continual progress in
happiness, knowledge and wis-
dom’ or universal death. But on
what guarantee have we this
‘continual progress’?
“Are we not here faced with
the very limited conception of
humanity’s position in the world
which is typical of 19th-century
materialism? Are we being
offered the earthly paradise,
where atomic energy will heat
the bath-water and all of us
will be clean, healthy and ade-
quately looked after in a world
which has solved every material
problem and no spiritual one?
There is great weakness, indeed
tragedy, in this kind of thinking.
It is easy for scientists, who have
achieved so much, to convince
themselves that the remarkable
intellect of man, unaided, can
solve every problem. But the
history of ‘progress’ in the last


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
mm
m
8/SlOHSdifflSj 3MI 01
X3JSMW
A brilliant flash of “sunlight” is at your command with the
Kodak FLASHOLDER
JIODO2 ?
n
The new Kodak Flasholder, usable with Kodak
and most other cameras, brings you the tun
of "flashsnapping"—the craze that is sweeping
England and America. With the Flasholder
you can get pictures you'd never have
attempted before—brilliant snaps of intimate
family life, parties, social occasions, fine pictures
on dull days or at night.
Price for Flasholder ...
.... £2/10/-
Bulbs
from 1/4
Fitting* for
flash*synchro. cameras
19/3
FROM YOUR KODAK DEALER
Kodak (Australasia) Pty. ltd., Branches In all States.
300 years has been an object-
lesson that we are perhaps now
only beginning to understand.
“We have mastered the
resources of nature, created
great riches and made our
physical welfare possible to a
degree undreamed of before in
the history of man. But we have
also, as a crowning achievement,
discovered how to destroy our-
selves utterly. Is the one not
related to the other? Scientists
have done great good, but can
they assume that all the good
has been theirs and all the evil
the outcome of the foolishness
of others? The good and the
evil go together, and if the evil
at this moment threatens, once
and for all, to destroy the good,
the fault lies in man’s over-
confidence in his intellect and in
his attempt to meddle unaided
with all the mysteries of the
visible world.
“It is no use urging men to
choose between progress and
annihilation. Something in man
compels him to make a different
choice, a choice between the
spiritual thing which is in him
and its denial. That choice no
sensible material argument can
take from him. Our hope lies
in humble acceptance of the
appalling problem we have
brought on ourselves. We must
strive to meet it with deeper
understanding of the higher
powers we have never under-
stood, with deeper conviction
that our cleverness alone can
bring no solution, with hope,
with faith, and with an effort
inspired not by selfish desires to
keep our comforts, but by
sacrifice and prayer.”
Malta
In the negotiations between a
Maltese delegation and the
British Government over the
future status of Malta, the Prime
Minister, Mr. Mintoff, has pro-
posed that the island should be
“integrated” with the United
Kingdom by an Act of Union
on the lines of the union between
Scotland and England in 1707.
The proposal envisages
Maltese representatives—prob-
ably three —in the House of
Commons and a gradual social
and economic integration.
Malta would become subject to
British rates of taxation, but
would have British social-service
benefits.
It is also hoped by the Maltese
Government that, whereas the
island’s economy at present
hangs on the threads of British
defence-spending and war-
damage payments, union with
the U.K. would attract industries
to Malta because the island’s
wage-costs are 40 to 50 per cent,
lower than Britain’s.
Commenting, London
“Economist” considers that “the
British Government would be
wise—and brave —to accept
these proposals”:
“Two or three Maltese M.P.s
at Westminster would have as
little effect on party fortunes as
two Sinn Fein M.P.s do now ;
on the other hand their ability
to speak, vote and ask questions
would give the Maltese the all-
important sense of being free
men, able to influence their own
destinies. As to the precedent,
the number of colonies likely to
opt for integration rather than
Commonwealth-country status —
or independence or enosis—i s so
small (some would say so
significantly small) that the argu-
ment of precedent is really only
an argument of prejudice.”
To which London “Observer”
adds that “Malta’s position is an
anachronism in the Common-
wealth —a highly civilised colony,
which placed itself voluntarily
under British protection in
Napoleon’s time, and has stood
bravely by this country in two
World Wars, has been told that
it cannot aspire to complete self-
government” :
“The proposals put forward
by the Maltese Prime Minister
are the only constructive sug-
gestions yet made. If the British
Government does not accede to
them, or something like them, it
can have no moral ground for
refusing the demand of the
[Maltese] Nationalist Opposi-
tion for ‘dominion status,’ or
indeed for preventing the Maltese
doing whatever they like.
“The [British] Government has
a plain choice between granting
Malta integration into the United
Kingdom or granting the island
independence. Either course
wguld be reasonable. To follow
neither course would be to invite
trouble.”
Less enthusiastic, London
“Financial Times” considers
that “a good deal of sentiment”
has been lavished on the idea
that Malta should return M.P.s
to Westminster.
“The truth is,” it comments,
“that by becoming a part of the
United Kingdom the Maltese
would have the privilege of
enjoying British social-services
at the British taxpayers’ ex-
pense. The Maltese would no
doubt gladly take advantage of
this opportunity, and grand news
for the Treasury this would be.
“An awkward precedent would
be set our Colonial improvers if
Malta were represented in the
United Kingdom Parliament by
half-a-dozen M-P-S.
“Ought we to solve the Cyprus
problem by bringing Cypriots
into the House of Commons and
putting Archbishop Makarious
on the bench of prelates in the
House of Lords? Should there
be a Member for the Falkland
Islands and Antarctica, in order
to show President Perdn where
he gets off? And what about
Hong Kong? With more than
2,000,000 inhabitants, it would
return some 40 members.
“One thing is certain, however,
about any plan for the represen-
tation of outlying territories: the
Isle of Man and the Channel
Islands will opt out. They have
no desire to ‘invest in prosperity’
by sending members to West-
minster. Their income-tax is
respectively only ss. and 4s. in
the pound.”
U.K.-German Shipping
The placing of orders in
German shipyards by British
shipping firms has lately been
mentioned here ; a further recent
development is a sharp protest by
the secretary of the U.K. Boiler-
makers’ Society, E. J. Hill, who
calls the transactions “placing
orders at scab prices”:
“If shipowners persist in
placing orders abroad where
wages and working-conditions
are below the standard in this
country [Britain] we shall have
to consider what measures
should be taken to remedy this
evil.”
Commenting on Hill’s protest
—and also that of G. B. H.
Currie, Conservative M.P., who
urges shipowners to regard the
welfare of British workers as
well as their own profits—
“ Manchester Guardian” notes
that “these protests are under-
standable, but protests and
appeals to patriotism will not
bring down British shipbuilding
costs or improve dates of
delivery”:
“The Germans at present can
quote prices some 15 per cent,
below those asked here [Britain]
and they promise firm delivery
dates —accepting penalty clauses
if the dates are not kept. Ger-
man shipbuilding has been sub-
sidised by tax-concessions allow-
ing the profits from investments
made up to the end of last year
to escape tax if they were put
back into the business, but it is
also greatly helped by the readi-
ness of German trade-unionists
New York “Herald Tribune”
WHICH COMES FIRST?
to work 48 hours in a week, to
do shift-work, and to avoid silly
little disputes about the precise
‘demarcation lines’ between the
jobs of different craftsmen.
“It is all very well for Mr.
Hill to denounce German wages
and working-conditions, but the
German workers (whose trade-
unions are not weaklings) do not
seem particularly unhappy about
them. The 44-hour week is not
a natural law —and the rest of
the world does not owe our ship-
yards a living.
“If our present working-con-
ditions are to be maintained they
must be justified by increased
productivity within them. They
probably can be justified—but
not by complaints that other
people are prepared to work
rather harder.”
Sir Winston
London “Daily Telegraph”
tribute to Sir Winston on his ap-
pointment as deputy-president
of the English-Speaking Union
of the Commonwealth:
“Of all the thousands of
members who believe so ardently
in the Atlantic alliance, Sir Win-
ston has best succeeded in
breathing life into the pious
platitudes. All the travelling
lecturers, politicians, trade-
unionists, film-stars and other
ambassadors of mutual under-
standing are, by comparison,
like schoolchildren trying to
empty the great ocean that
divides us with toy buckets. Sir
Winston Churchill bridges the
gulf because he is the first Eng-
lish statesman whom the great
mass of Americans have liked,
understood and trusted and who
has liked, trusted and understood
the great mass of Americans. He
is, after all, half-American
himself.
“When last Sir Winston
Churchill was out of office, his
voice was heard almost as often
in the United States as in
Britain. He fought his great
campaign against appeasement
with one foot in the Old and
one in the New World. In the
coming months he will be using
his unrivalled knowledge of, and
influence over, both peoples, not
to shape their future but, in the
long-awaited History of the
English - Speaking World, to
chronicle their past.”
Various Voices
Averell Harriman: “It’s sig-
nificant that if you lose power
in Russia today you don’t have
to be shot. It has taken forty
years for that to happen. Nowa-
days, they want to live for the
revolution, not die for it.”
George Drew (Leader of the
Opposition in Canada ): “We
have common ground in that
the Russians as well as ourselves
want to live.”


THE OT HER FELLOW'S MIND
“Produce More: Save More”
So goes the slogan for the cure of our
economic ills; but, sound as the advice
may be, there is one thing against the
“save more” part of it —our old friend
the means-test, applied to applicants for
pensions.
Exactly how the means-test is to be
abolished, whether by a contributory
scheme or otherwise, I don’t know, but
I do know that it is the essence of bad
tactics for a Government, looking to the
general public to fill the Commonwealth
loans, to penalise those who heed its
advice as regards saving.
It now seems fairly clear that there
will be provision in the forthcoming
Budget for an increase in the rate of
pensions, which will make the last half
of the slogan more futile than ever.
Savings-bank figures indicate that much
money is being saved, but considering
the much-depreciated purchasing-power
of the £A the average balance per head
of population is nothing wonderful. Of
course, the totals should be much higher,
but so long as we have a means-test the
spending-spree will continue.
Australians are becoming increasingly
pension-minded ; the old view of “taking
the pension” has long since gone by the
board. Small wonder that life-policies
are being surrendered, modest pensions
commuted to a lump-sum payment, and
any available cash blown-in on this, that
and the other, so that the person con-
cerned can qualify for the pension.
Notice how the tourist-class mail-boats
are packed with passengers, many of
whom are spending their savings on a
hitherto undreamed-of world tour. They
know that when they return to their
homes, dispossessed of those disqualifying
savings, a nice little sum of £l4 a fort-
night will be available to them tax-free.
In fact, the sum might easily be £l6 in
the near future for husband and wife.
Not so bad, with no rent or tax to pay,
but one could hardly call such a bait an
incentive to save. — Ceg (Vic.).
Coach Doors
Regarding the excellent Lionel Lindsay
etching on the Cobb and Co. stamp, a
debate has raged in the Sydney press as
to whether the artist was right ip depict-
ing the coach without doors.
According to Mr. H. A. Fry, of Pater-
son (N.S.W.), he was quite right in draw-
ing a pioneering coach without doors —
Mr. Fry should know, since he and his
“Sorry we can't publish your book—the Obscene Publications Act,
you know.”
father oefore him drove and built coaches
for the N.S.W. Maitland-Dungog run
until the opening of the North Coast
railway in August, 1911. Naturally, the
Frys were interested in the structure of
the Cobb and Co. coaches, and often
travelled by them to centres not visited
ow n vehicles.
Ihe American firm of Cobb and Co.
was a wide-awake business-concern, so
the coaches it turned out were those most
suited to the conditions for which they
were required. In the pioneering days
the roads were shockingly rough; hence
it was the aim of the coach-builder to
construct a vehicle as strong and light
as possible.
American hickory was used for the
framework of the coaches because its
strength, its lightness and its pliability.
Not one ounce of unnecessary weight
went into the structure —and that is the
whole secret of why there were no doors
on the coaches. In dry weather clouds
of dust billowed through the coach and
in wet times mud splashed in, so blinds
of light duck were tacked above the
doorways to be lowered when required.
At other times these blinds were rolled-up
and secured with a leather strap.
Passengers were not only restricted in
the amount of luggage they could take;
they had to get out and lighten the load
on steep grades and even grab hold of the
spokes and put their shoulders to the
wheel in a crisis. In the early days of
roadmaking it was safer for a coach to
proceed right up and over a hill than
run the risk of being tipped into a gully
in attempting to skirt round the side of
the rise. It was not unusual, on such
steep grades as the Wallarobba hill on
the way to Dungog, for all hands to bail-
out, shoulder the mail and baggage and
toil over the crest on foot.
In addition to the vehicles being as
light as possible they had brace-built
bodies with leather springs, as a coach
with rigid springs could never have stood 1
up to the jolting—and neither could the
passengers.
Mr. Fry, who took his first coach-ride
at the age of six in 1880, says he never
saw a coach built by Cobb and Co. with
doors on it. Cobbs built some of their
vehicles in Maitland, where Frys had
their own factory.— Recla (N.S.W.).
Surveyors
“Pommy Surveyor” (B. 20/7/’55) can-
not have sighted the actual examination-
papers for our Australian licence. Only
constant cramming right up to the
moment of the exam, can get you
through. After that, the scope of your
real fieldwork is confined to a small frac-
tion of all that you had to learn, so that
you forget most of it.
It is generally recognised that the Aus-
tralian licensed-surveyor is one of the
most highly qualified men in that game
today, since no other country insists on
such a wide scope before permission to
practise is granted and official recognition
given. As for “typical subjects”—all I
know is they’re there all right, and you’ve
got to learn them.
“P.S.” gives the game away a bit when
he complains about there being no Ord-
nance Data. Of course it’s all very nice
and tidy when you can lean on an O.D.
benchmark every few hundred feet, but
how does he think J. F. Morgan ran the
survey of the North Kimberleys recently?
That job called for the very highest
qualifications and field ability: Aus-
tralian -surveyors are not “restricted in
practice,” as “P.S.” states, but, as I
pointed out, they have managed to re-
strict themselves, deliberately or other-
wise, to boundary-definition almost to
the exclusion of everything else. Now
not only is this (comparatively simple)
work well in arrears, but little or noth-
ing has been done about high-order geo-
detic surveys—hence the absence of O.D.
The cry that qualified men from over-
seas—doctors, dentists, lawyers, etc.—
are unfairly prevented from practising
here can often be justified in particular
cases, but generally speaking the safe-
guards are warranted.
Few jobs carry such responsibility as
that of the land surveyor, and it is mainly
for that reason that the Institute has so
far resisted all efforts to broaden its
scope. It is my opinion that they should
do so, but most certainly not on the
basis of any Johnny-come-lately waltzing
in with strange credentials and being
given an open go. “P.S.” would be the
first to admit that they don’t do things
like that at “home.”—R. H. G. (W.A.).
. .
rrice-nxing
Just after reading “Peter Simple’s”
letter on fixed prices (B. 6/7/’55) I read
elsewhere that the British Government
would enforce registration of price-fixing
“Car twentyfwe—en route Kiama via short-cut .”
bodies. This follows the report of mem-
bers of a Government-appointed Mono-
polies Commission asking that restrictive
practices be made a criminal offence. In
its report, the commission listed six broad
categories of agreement between trading
bodies, including collective discrimination
by sellers and collective enforcement of
conditions of sale. \
This latter “price-fixing” has gained
a hold on Australian business. Like
“Peter Sinfple,” I know of several in-
stances where small storekeepers were
threatened with the cutting-off of sup-
plies unless they toed the line and charged
what the wholesalers ordered.
It is well known that, with various
commodities, there is an “honorable
agreement” among sellers that prices to
shopkeepers will be maintained at a
certain figure. There is also the arrange-
ment by which the storekeeper can only
obtain certain lines by purchasing other
items which he may not want.
Customers are frequently told by the
retailer that prices are fixed at figures
quoted, and in verification he will turn
up a thick book of current prices; these,
of course, are not “Government-control”
figures but those “fixed” by the business
firms. Fair competition between traders
has no chance under this system.
When official price-controls were
abolished there were many people who
predicted that prices would begin to soar.
That has happened here in Tasmania in
more than one line, and Attorney-
General Fagan threatened to reimpose
controls unless there was better behavior.
The Retail Traders’ Association said it
would not make increases unless “un-
avoidable circumstances” arose, which
gives a pretty wide margin.
Possibly something in the nature of
the legislative measures being adopted in
Britain may be necessary in Australia if
the uncurbed “price-control” methods
enforced by big business continue to
expand.— O’Johnno (Tas.).
No Jubilee Year ?
The other day a Perth man convicted
of drunken driving was fined £5O and
had his driving-licence suspended for
12 months, the severity of the sentence
stemming from the fact that it was his
second conviction for that offence. Fair
enough, perhaps, but the previous offence
occurred 30 years ago, when drunken
driving wasn’t regarded as seriously as
it is now and didn’t carry even a com-
parative sentence. Yet that conviction
is held over this man’s head for the rest
of his life.
A worse example is provided by a
friend of mine who was convicted of an
offence when he was a youth in the toils
of the depression. That was his one and
only lapse. Since then he has lived
entirely within the law, enlisted early in
the war and served in the Middle East,
and was discharged medically unfit after
five years’service. His service disabilities
carry a pension hardly worth collecting
—possibly because he won’t apply for
an increase—but they seriously limit his
choice of occupation. For his family’s
security he thought of entering the civil
service, for which he’s fully suited. He
finds he’s not eligible, not because he
lacks any qualifications, but because on
the application-form there’s provision for
the record of any previous conviction,
including traffic-offences,
Possibly a minor traffic-offence
wouldn’t debar him. A small jail sen-
tence almost certainly would, and in any
case he won’t take the chance of having
his reputation ruined by resurrecting a
youthful lapse that’s been forgotten by
his old friends and is unknown to his
neighbors.
When the tribes of Israel were nomads
without a homeland they had their
jubilee-years when everything was for-
gotten and forgiven. Possibly something
of the same charity and forgiveness could
be added to our present-day law.—
Felon (W.A.).
Buying a Home
“Jindivick’s” contention (B. 13/7/’55)
that the housing position is “impossible
all round” sidesteps my point that most
people don’t rate saving for a home as
sufficient inducement to practise a little
self-denial —not for others, but for the
security of their own future.
Most people want all the amenities
now on a 40-hour-week economy, instead
of deciding on the essentials and going
flat-out for them. We all want too much
without working anything like a full
week; we won’t wake-up to a realistic
attitude of balancing effort with result;
and we won’t wait until we have earned
what we want. And this at a time when
full employment and the highest wages
ever should make for a more independent
spirit!
Part of the difficulty young couples
experience in getting finance for houses
is caused because the house they want
to build is larger and more expensive
than is justified by their present resources
and future expectations.
“Jindivick” states that “far too many
homes built by amateurs look the part.
Why not, provided they comply with
building-regulations? After all, a house
may be an eyesore to the aesthete and
still be the owner’s pride and joy. Any-
way, most spec, and Housing Commis-
sion dwellings look the part deplorably,
while too many architect-designed
homes have the look of the planner
rather than the liver.
Everything has to be paid for sooner
or later, and I wonder if a lot of the
people wanting Government or ottler
assistance to buy a home belonged tor-
merly to the group which was happy
to rent a house, putting capital into in-
vestment or fun and games. Rising ren
have made that way of hving less , aU ,
tive, so house-ownership is demande
financial terms which mean that, o
working-life, a man is paying off a
gage at little more than rent. ,
As an old Australian, I am intereste
to note that New Australians conung
from Europe to a strange culture an^
climate, are finding the ° house
many of them seem able to b y
or small business within a few y
John Hogarth (Vic.).


Jutiih in ihc
mm
Few things are more precious than a piece of
new knowledge gained.
Many times in my life I have felt the force of
that tremendous truth as I have travelled and met
people and seen Providence working on the destinies
of the human race.
But never have I been so conscious of it as
on my present visit to America.
Maybe that is because one sees here in fast
momentum the post-war race to knowledge and
achievement. It is something that one can see, as
yet, only from a distance in Australia.
New in the hands of men are sources of power
that were, a mere ten years ago, still in the realms
of fantasy.
Every year—almost every month, every week —
brings out some fresh development in performance
or learning.
It is a flowing process: a rising on the sands,
some new deposit left by the tides of Matter on
the shores of Time. Left for man, under God, to
use in his wisdom.
One senses it in gatherings of men. And I have
been able to read the human gauge rather closely
in recent weeks; for the series of business
conferences I have been attending has brought
together delegates from 46 countries, representing
every continent and many of the major island
groups that scatter the seas.
To meet these men is, in itself, an excursion
in knowledge. To hear them speak, to see their
various cultures shining through in word and
gesture; to realise that we sit round a table striving
for a common purpose, in an age when there is
such a brilliant opportunity for people to weld
their world by Faith in themselves and in one
another—all this, I say, has been a liberal education,
and a grand experience.
In such concourse as this lies the hope of an
increasingly wonderful world.
//
* 4
ruaaoer.
m
Si s
M#*'
i
For your next suit • • •
. . . you’ll find Crusader cloth is better . Your new suit
is going to cost you good money, so make sure you are
getting the best cloth. And Crusader is best the
result of over forty years experience in weaving fine,
woollen fabrics.
I’ve just been looking through Crusader’s new 1955-56
range, and you can take it from me, it’s the most attrac-
tive selection of modern suitings I’ve ever seen. In
fact, this range is as good as the world’s best.
You can always depend on Crusader, because the
Crusader Mills guarantee their cloth. They guarantee
that only pure Australian merino fleece wool is used
in the weaving. They guarantee that no synthetics or
substitutes of any kind are added. They guarantee that
Crusader cloth will give years
of hard wear. And they
guarantee it will never fade
or shrink.
What more do you want?
The smartest suit in town? If
you use Crusader, that is
what you’ll have. So ask
your tailor to show you the
new Crusader Pattern Book,
and you’ll see what I mean.
Special
Selection.
double warp
doubl£weft
CnisaJlet
SU*XZ*2£jl
Crusader doth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 6.113
Workers* Compensation
As from July 1 this year premiums
payable by employers for workers’-
compensation insurance in Victoria were
substantially increased, thus adding con-
siderably to overhead costs in industry.
Insurance companies, in passing on the
bad news to their clients, pointed out
that the spope of “accidents” entitling
employees to benefits had been so
widened by recent amendments to the
law that the term “workers’ compensa-
tion” was a misnomer.
In faqt, as the law now stands, the
whole scheme amounts to a non-
contributory benefits - system for em-
ployees, covering all kinds of mishaps
which are in no way related to their
activities as employees.
For instance, as the scheme now
operates, an employee is insured from
the time he leaves his front-gate until he
returns home from work ; even an elderly
employee’s death from natural causes
while travelling in a vehicle has been held
to be an accident “arising out of or in
the course of his employment,” and
therefore entitling his dependants to a
substantial sum.
Doubtless, in necessitous cases of this
type, some aid should be given to the
employee’s widow, but it seems wrong
that the employer should, in effect, be
blamed for the victim’s death —that is
virtually the case, as he is called upon
to foot the bill through his insurance
premiums. If the State thinks it right
that the dependants in such an instance
should be assisted financially, let the State
accept the responsibility, not the
employer, who is already burdened
heavily by the State’s restrictions and
taxes, direct and indirect. — Doynest
(Vic.).
Woomera
I don’t know about Kwinana (W.A.),
but “Waddlin’ Willie” (B. 22/6/’55) has
his facts mixed when he insists that
British brains are behind the preserva-
tion of Australian flora at Woomera.
That town’s population is predominantly
Australian, and, by. his accent, the bloke
who runs the “arboretum” must have a
couple of generations of dinkum Aussies
behind him.
Before construction of the village was
commenced Australian workers had
established a nursery and were applying
their knowledge of dry-country horticul-
ture, with the result that visitors to the
Weapons Research Establishment are
now astonished to see streets lined with
blossoming gums.
The many acres of plantations are the
work of a crew of Australians and
European migrants. The chief problem,
evaporation of the irrigation water, has
been solved by a technique used by
graziers in the area for years past —by
sinking a stone pipe to a depth of 3ft.
beside the young tree.
“W.W.’s” final point doesn’t hold
water, either. Real Aussies don’t wait
for the “Gov’ment” to, do things for
them, as a look at some of the gardens
outside Woomera homes will prove.
Several Australians are also privately
conducting breeding-experiments with the
desert wildflowers.
Incidentally, a couple of South African
importations outperform the local
article in hot, dry conditions. The
tamarix, or athel-tree, reaches a shady
height of 30ft. in five years, and Norman
Lindsay’s “vicious South African grass,”
kikuyu, needs little water and has been
rechristened locally “Mau Mau.” — Burr
Imul (S.A.).
Punishment in Schools
The subject of physical punishment in
schools has been raised again in Victoria,
a leading educationist asserting that it all
depends on “personality” —if a teacher
has that, then he or she would (or should)
have no need to use the cane or strap.
It’s a myth! My wife, a teacher of wide
experience in all types of schools, used
to believe that, through personality, a
teacher could, in time, overcome e\ery
problem in the handling of children.
Our views on educational methods were
profoundly shaken after a few months in
Melbourne, so much so that we sought
the views of as many other teachers as
possible. Briefly, the general opinion
seemed to be that in any group of chil-
dren from a comparatively poor, densely
populated area there are almost always
few who are untouched by anything
like personality, however patient the
teacher may be in his quest for contact.
Their lives have given them so much
premature experience that they have been
forced to develop skins of incredible
toughness.
In many cases these youngsters come
from homes in which the parents are
patently hot qualified for their position.
For someone to mean what he says, to
be consistent, is something beyond their
comprehension. Thus obedience, which
is a necessary part of successful educa-
tion, has no part in their make-up. In
some schools there is simply no lever
available by which the teacher can make
a child do what it should.
In such a setting something which will
really impress itself as a punishment is
essential; otherwise the education of
the majority of the children will be im-
peded by the aggressively uninterested
few. And that applies whether a school
is overcrowded or not. —Q. E, D. (Vic.).


LYSAsicrs/
00
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
i > „«
*- v "
: ' ■
Ml
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lyscsghf Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, BlackwaU Pi. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
THE USEFUL EARTHWORM
'T'HERE is a general lack of
appreciation of the useful-
ness of the common earthworm.
No argument about their role in
enriching and making soil —
Darwin and later workers have
demonstrated that up to the hilt.
But though all this is known,
practical farmers and graziers
seldom apply the knowledge to
their own land.
One of the interesting things
about the earthworm is the fact
that it does turn. Darwin, in his
Humus and the Earthworm,
says: “When a worm comes to
the surface to eject earth the
tail protrudes ; when it collects
leaves its head protrudes.
Worms, therefore, must have the
power of turning round in their
closely fitting burrows ; and this,
as it appears to us, would be a
difficult feat.”
After 40 years of fascinated
study, he wrote: “It may be
doubted whether there are any
other animals which have played
so important a part in the history
of the world as have these lowly
organised creatures.”
Many students have given
population - figures. Darwin
found concentrations of between
25,000 to 53,000 per acre.
Hamblyn, of the N.Z. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, says pre-
liminary counts give numbers
ranging from 1,500,000 to
3,500,000 per acre on sheep-
country hillsides.
Reports from the Sudan state
that earthworm-castings in the
Valley of the White Nile, during
the six months of the active
growing - season, amount to
119.79 tons per acre. This is
rich soil. Dr. C. L. Curtis, of
the Connecticut Experimental
Station (U.S.), has demon-
strated that worm-casts contain
five times more nitrogen, seven
times more available phos-
phorus, 11 times more potash
and 40 per cent, more humus
than is found in the soil from
which they derive. Sir Albert
Howard, a British scientist,
supplies similar impressive
figures.
It seems that the casts are
produced in the alimentary
canal, from animal, vegetable
and mineral particles in the soil.
In the digestive passage this
crude food is neutralised by
constant addition of carbonate-
of-lime from three pairs of cal-
ciferous glands near the gizzard.
Here it is ground prior to diges-
tion. Earthworms have the
effect of correcting acidity in
soil; also, of reducing alkilinity
in overalkaline soils.
The earthworm, then, is a
highly specialised digestive sys-
tem, blindly eating its way
through soil, compacted soil,
dead roots and what-have-you ;
when an obstacle cannot be
eaten a track is eaten around it.
It tunnels and aerates to a depth
of 10ft. and more, and, apart
from this beneficial physical
effect on the soil, brings to the
surface plant-food of the highest
quality. Bringing to the surface,
too, minerals, from a depth well
below that worked by the
average implement; and these
minerals are in a condition
which makes them immediately
available to plant-life.
The working-habits of the
earthworm help aeration of the
soil, and aeration permits bac-
terial life to function vigorously
by providing water and oxygen
at depth. Thus the cycle is
complete.
It is fair to say that millions
of acres of Australian pasture
have not been touched by the
plough for decades, and that
thousands of acres of stubble
have been burnt. In both cases,
at varying depths between 3in.
and sin., there is compaction.
Below this invisible barrier
plant-nutrients are, so to speak,
locked out.
Man cannot bring sub-soil to
the surface and turn it into good
soil without long periods of
weathering. Earthworms can. It
has been recently demonstrated
that, given moisture and food,
earthworm repopulation is rapid
on poor land. The food isn’t
expensive—any sort of vegetable
trash worked into the soil.
The earthworm is both male
and female (hermaphrodite), but
is not self-fertilising. Any two
can mate. Copulation is neces-
sary for eggs to become fertile.
Under ideal conditions, when
food and water are plentiful and
the weather is mild, a lemon-
shaped capsule containing from
two to 20 fertile eggs is produced
every seven to 10 days. Incuba-
tion period is from 21 to 30 days.
It’s difficult to detect the young
worms, which are like small ends
of white thread, gradually
changing to dark purple. Im-
mediately after birth they start
on the cycle of break-down of
organic matter, and, according
to the quantity and quality of
food, thrive or are starved.
It is difficult to estimate what
population of earthworms an
acre, or a thousand acres, of
land would hold under ideal
conditions. But, given those
conditions, the rate of increase
must be rapid. Dr. T. J. Barker
supplies some basic figures :
“From a culture of 500 worms
55,000 capsules were developed
within one year.” Assuming an
average of 10 young to the cap-
sule, 500 worms produced
550,000 progeny.
It’s worth while running a few
million to the acre. They’re
cheap, too —dirt cheap. But they
must be giyen the right condi-
tions of moisture and organic-
matter. The dividend see
Dr. Curtis’s calculations is
fantastic.
F. G. DILLON.
WrcKsg Tree
Statement by “Bass” (B.
20/7/’55) that “honey-locust is
one of the mesquites, and they’re
bad trees to have anywhere,” is
a bit loose to accept as a logical
argument. The honey-locust and
the mesquite are members of the
same family—the Leguminosce
—of which there are some 7000
species.
Apart from that, at no time
in New South Wales, or, so far
as I know, in the Common-
wealth, has the honey-locust
assumed pest-growth propor-
tions.
The botanical name of the
honey-locust is Gleditschia tria-
canthos, and it is deciduous ; the
botanical name for mesquite is
Pro so pis juliflora, and it is an
evergreen. A native of North
America, where it is considered
one of the most beautiful trees,
hundreds of thousands of honey-
locusts have been cultivated on
farms in southern U.S. for their
beans, which make nutritious
stock-fodder. This species has
rosettes of strong thorns round
the trunk, and thorns also
appear on the branches.
The thornless honey-locust
(Gleditschia triacanthos, var.
inermis ) is also beautiful and
useful. Now increasing in popu-
larity in Australia, it should be
giyen preference over the thorny
variety.
These are the only two species
of honey-locust. Both attain
from 30ft. to 100 ft. in height,
according to climate and soil,
and both make good ornamental-
and shade-trees in paddocks.
Bean-crops may be expected
at from seven to 10 years. Bean-
pods range from 12in. to 20in.
in length, are flatfish and often
curved in shape. Their sugar-
content averages 29 per cent,
and crude protein 13.4 per cent.
Total nutriment value compares
well with wheat-bran, which is
the standard nutriment for the
dairy-cow in U.S.A.. Under
favorable conditions mature
honey-locusts may bear several
consecutive crops.
On U.S. farms cattle and
pigs wait under the trees for
the beans to fall, and eat them
with relish. Fed beans regularly,
weight of stock is said to
improve.
Both species are drought-
resistant, and to some extent
frost-resistant, and both grow
fairly quickly.
It was pleasing to read
“W.C.Q.’s” suggestion that the
trees should be planted on the
Darling Downs (Q.); they
should do well there.
Regarding the mesquite:
while there are several varieties
of, this tree, there is, to date,
only the one botanically named
species. In Kansas and Texas
it has formed spiny forests
which are almost impenetrable.
As evidence of its toughness, it
is also to be found on the floor
of Death Valley, California,
where, as one writer puts it, it
forms “welcome spots of green
which protect man and beast
from the scorching, sun.” Other
varieties turn up in Peru, Argen-
tina, Mexico and Pakistan.
U.S. farmers do not cultivate
this tree for its beans, but these
are eaten by Indians and by
animals. Unlike the honey-
locust’s beans, they are rela-
tively short, and of the cork-
screw type —hence, in some
countries, the name “screw-
bean” for the tree.
Seeds of the honey-locust
average 2800 per lb., those of
the mesquite 14,000 per lb. This
prolific seeding, together with its
bad suckering habit, are respons-
ible for the mesquite’s rapid
pest-growth establishment.
In conclusion: The mesquite,
in its present form, should not
be grown in Australia. The
honey-locust should not be con-
fused with the mesquite.
But mesquite is one of the
very few trees that will grow in
very poor or dry, gravelly soils,
or in shifting sands, where
drought incidence is high and
summer rainfall averages 6in. to
lOin. a year.
Research might evolve a
hybrid tough enough to stand
up to these conditions, but with
its pest-growth reduced or
eliminated. As research would
have to cover test-plantings, it
would take a long time. But it
might produce a safe tree-cover
for deserts.
Judith Cassell.
Australian Wheat
Except to an economist, it seems
queer that half the world should
be undernourished, while four or
five countries in the other half
of the world have surpluses of
wheat that will be reduced only
by restricting production.
The trouble is that the hungry
countries are poor and cannot
afford to buy wheat from Aus-
tralia, Argentina, Canada and
U.S.A. So, because they have
little money, the wheat that
might give them strength to
make more just stays where it is
—in the silos of the producing-
nations.
To provide poor countries with
money is an operation involving
high finance and politics; to
provide hungry Asia with a
taste for wheat instead of for
rice is a less difficult problem;
but, still, a problem. The prob-
lem Australia can tackle straight
away is costs. If costs of wheat-
production are lowered, our
farmers can make the same
profit whilst selling more wheat,
more cheaply, to the hungry
nations.
This would have the following
advantages:
1. Australia would sell more
wheat, and thus make more total
profit.
2. The poor countries would
benefit, and their strengthened
economies woulct make them
potential markets for other Aus-
tralian products.
3. The wheat-surplus would
have been translated, not only
into money, but also into good-
will and security.
How can costs be lowered? It
is evident that the whole econ-
omy, not just the farmer, is in-
volved in the problem of high
costs. And for a satisfactory
solution the national economy
will need to be examined
seriously. For a start, costs of
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. Arid that's when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


The "FARMERS' BOY" SS.* “t N ’ s P i£
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
STEPPED-AXLE PLOUGH
consisting of 22 x 4in. metal cleated wheels, heavy
plough beam, fully adjustable disc coulter, breast
share, landslide and the UNIQUE STEPPED AXLE
\vhich keeps the machine level when ploughing. The
ower wheel rides in the completed furrow, the stepped-up wheel on
, , e , higher ground not yet ploughed, the correct balance thus ensuring
full application of the GEARED STRENGTH of the FARMERS’ BOY.
Write Qr telephone your nearest State Distributor for free particulars and
Von , . ____ for demonstrations:
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth, Aus.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Qland: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STORES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
INTRODUCING TO ALL
FARMERS AND BUILDERS
THE WILLIS "STANDARD" LEVEL
WORLD WIDE SALES
THIS IS A MUST FOR ALL
No extras/ to buy—complete with
Carrying Case, Tripod, Target,
Staff and Instructions.
m ■
m
Irrigation
and
Drainage
Foundations
and
Contour Work
Horizontal
Angles
£l7 FREE ON RAIL
WILLIS INDUSTRIAL
SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.,
31 Queen St., Melbourne.
NEW IMPROVED
SHEEP BRANDING FLUID
ra
S-
(
4
S
'j
u
Manufactured by the major wool processing company in Australia.
The company that knows from years of experience what can and
what cannot be removed from shorn wool.
Exclusive use of SI-RO-MARK enhances the
value of your clip because although durable, it is
readily scourable
HENRY B. SMITH LIMITED
AT THE GATEWAY TO MELBOURNE
559-565 SPENCER STREET. Tel. FJ 1608
If you have any difficulty in obtaining supplies, mail this coupon to—
HENRY SMITH LIMITED
Box 4506 G.P.0., Melbourne
Please Dispatch to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Number of Tins 1 Gal Red Green Blue @ 25/-
£ Gal. Red Green Blue @ 13/4
such items as fertilisers and agri-
cultural machinery, which affect
the farmer most directly, might
be looked into.
On the farms, costs can be
lowered in two ways: by in-
creased production per man, or
by increased production per acre.
For the first to be effective,
action would have to be taken on
the assumption that one-man
farms are less economic than
larger concerns employing many
men. It is, perhaps, too much to
expect that the far-reaching
changes implicit in this will ever
occur.
But production of wheat per
acre can be increased, and in
many ways. That it is, on the
whole, not good enough can be
seen by comparing the average
yield with the yield of the
champion wheatfarmer in each
area.
In most cases—in Victoria,
anyway the winner of the
competition has a yield twice as
high as the average; and this
despite the fact that average
production per acre has been
rising and is now roughly a
score of bushels. But considera-
tions of yield should not be
allowed to outweigh any concern
for protein-content.
Many methods can be used to
achieve this general rise in yield
and quality per acre. Most of
them are aimed at increasing the
soil’s content of organic-matter
(for even superphosphate is
“fixed” in the soil unless suffi-
cient organic-acids are present
to liberate it). Probably the most
important single method is the
clover-ley system, which entails
a change from traditional mono-
culture of wheat to running
sheep, as well, to feed on the
pastures. Rutherglen Research
Station, where this was tested,
achieved a stupendous rise in pro-
duction, with the income from
the sheep as an “extra.”
It is quite clear that there is
plenty of scope for more efficient
wheatfarming methods in this
country. Once these methods are
widely adopted we shall be able
to, and should, sell our wheat
more cheaply.
R. B. Cook.
Twins
“Stepout”: When twins are
born in the flock, mark each
lamb and their mother distinc-
tively with a scourable brand.
The twin which inevitably gets
separated from the rest of the
family can then be easily identi-
fied and returned to mother.
Another hint is to hobble the
mother of twins with twine, so
that she can’t clear out with the
stronger lamb and leave the
weaker to the mercy of foxes.
By the time the twine frays and
breaks, both twins are strong
enough to follow the ewe any-
where. Of course, feed must be
plentiful enough for the ewe to
get enough grass within a small
area while she is hobbled.
De-salting Land
“8.J.”: P. W. Geytenbeck, a
S.A. soil-conservation official,
has been investigating means of
eliminating salt-pans from pro-
perties. The problem is a fairly
common one in the peninsula
and lower-north districts.
It is most important, Geyten-
beck says, to maintain tKe sur-
face-cover of the area affected.
This can only be done by im-
proving the water-intake, to
enable the salt in the surface-
layer to be washed down.
He advises initial ripping of
the salt-pan (on the contour, with
furrows 6ft. to Bft. apart if the
land is sloping) and sowing with
barley at 60-701 b. per acre, with
lcwt. of super., to which can be
added a pasture-mixture of 31b.
lucerne, 21b. barrel-medic, and
21b. Wimmera-rye. Barley
should be sown shallower than
usual and the pasture-mixture
just scratched into the surface.
If the remainder of the pad-
dock is not being sown at the
same time the area should be
fenced-off. After harvest, straw
from adjacent crops should be
brought to the salt-patch and
spread in a fairly thick mat.
It may be necessary to add
further seed in the following
year. In any case, the area
should be topdressed again.
Care of Lambs
“Billjim”: Whatever the
season, some troubles are always
experienced with lambs.
Entero-toxaemia is a common
problem on Victorian pastures,
and if the ewe has not been
vaccinated a month before
lambing this complaint can be
expected. After an outbreak,
dose every lamb with anti-toxin,
which will give protection for
two or three weeks and tide it
over the critical period.
Arthritis also claims a few
victims in every flock. If this
is found before marking, dress
the navels of new-born lambs
with some antiseptic such as a
weak solution of bluestone in
water.
At marking, see that instru-
ments are clean and lambs are
kept in temporary yards; if
yards are not available, keep the
lambs away from germ-laden
soil and manure.
To guard against scouring,
watch the rotations of stock
closely and see that sudden
changes of feed do not occur.
If ewes are fed well and are
drenched with phenothiazine a
month before lambing, worm-
infestation, which also can
cause scours, will be kept at a
minimum.
Tetanus (or lockjaw) is
another possibility with lambs.
Preventive measures are similar
to those for arthritis —care at
lambing and marking.
Scab by-mouth occurs only
where there are plants such as
thistles to injure the skin.
Control is obtained by vaccina-
tion at marking-time, but, as the
vaccine contains the live germ,
which can live in the soil for
years, vaccination should not
be done unless it has been estab-
lished that the disease is active.
New Concentrate
“Billjim”: A new type of
concentrate, called “protess,” has
emerged in the U.K. Organic-
matter is fed into a machine
which separates protein, carbo-
hydrates, minerals, oils and
vitamins from the water and
fibre, which, of course, limit the
amount of nutriments an animal
can absorb.
Four kinds of protess are pro-
duced : liquid, which contains up
*to 90 per cent, moisture; paste,
or “cheese,” containing 80 per
cent, moisture; cake, or biscuit,
low in moisture-content; and
meal, obtained by grinding
protess-cakes.
From one ton of greenstuff of
80 per cent, moisture, up to
l|cwt. of dried protess and
between 2% and 4cwt. of dry-
fibre residue can be obtained.
All types of the new concen-
trate are suitable for incorpora-
tion with cereals and grass, and
are very suitable for breeding-
and growing-stock. Also, they
can be stored for long periods
without deterioration.
The extraction-machines have
been successful on a wide range
of materials, among them cas-
sava, meat, fish, seaweed, sun-
flower-husks, apples, garbage-
waste, and even dung. They are
also used for extracting oil, fruit*
juice and drugs from plants and
herbs for use in the medicinal
and pharmaceutical industries.
The hew process has been
hailed as a means of increasing
the quantity and reducing the
cost of the world’s fodder-
supplies.
Farm Hints
“Sundowner”: Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture advises
use of sulphate-of-ammonia in
potato-scab country. Disease
usually appears in alkaline soils,
and for that reason no lime or
alkaline manures' should be
applied. Plough-in green-manure
crops where the soil is poor in
organic matter.
“Chuck”: Poor germination
of carrot- or parsnip-seed is
often due to deep sowing or
allowing the top-soil to harden
before the plants are well
through it. A soil-depth of |in.
to fin. is sufficient seed-cover.
Unless the soil is friable and
deep a satisfactory crop is
unlikely. In heavy soil friable
conditions can be made by spad-
ing trenches 15in. deep and
refilling with one-part compost
and four-parts soil.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(31/7/’55)
Moderate rain in N.S.W. during August on the table-
lands, central-west and south-west slopes, with light rains
elsewhere. The coast from Sydney northward, generally
poor, although better rains are indicated on the south coast.
The present sunspot group should confirm the possi-
bility of some further rain about August 9 and 10.
Good rains may occur in Gippsland! and part of the
north-east, light to moderate rain elsewhere in Victoria.
Reasonably good rains are likely in South Australia,
with a continuation of good rain in Western Australia, but
the West Gascoyne light, and the lower south coast below
average.
LENNOX WALKER.


Would you like good
whisky better?
y* 3*
r~
BELtS
»0% SCOTCH WHjSKIfS
ttSIUUO ABO BUK«"
'jIH SCOTIAH3 .
O| STILLERS «»TH J
CSTAdIISMEO. '
Of Sgffipgg
** T COHTtMTS * I «*» * ,kW
II&4I
If whisky is really good,
made in Scotland—can one
ask for anything more ? We
think you can—that it
should bear the name
‘Bell’s’. We are independent
distillers. Independent to
go on making the finest
whisky our long experience
can produce. Buy a bottle
of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if
it is not Scotch Whisky at
its spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISkY
Arthur BeU&Sons Ltd.,Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
Empire
£2
Foreign .. • • £2/10/“
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
she has leaned too far. I am
wrong, unfortunately.
After about ten minutes
Johnson breathes again, grabs
his champagne and downs the
lot. He is still red from blush-
ing. He leans over to me says,
“You know, Herb, she wasn’t
wearing any wats-is-names.”
He’s like Crusoe the day he
saw the footprint. I think, God
help the delicate ears of the poor
stockmen when Johnso gets back
to the cattle-camps.
He is in the process of being
deliciously scandalised. Mary is
saying things about undressed
hussies that are not complimen-
tary to the lovely redhead.
I tell him, “Boy, you ain’t
seen nothin’ yet,” and hope I’m
right.
He says, “Cripes, does it get
better?” I wink at him and fill
his glass.
The chorus-line swings into
action and you could have
lassoed Johnson’s eyes with a
two-inch rope.
Right at the end the lights
go off and a spotlight centres on
a girl over the stage. She is
motionless with her hands above
her head. She is quite naked.
The drums roll to a crescendo.
Johnson is saying, “Cop the sort,
cop the sort, cop the sort,” like a
cracked record. The drums stop,
the light goes off, and the audi-
ence applaud. When the lights
go on Johnson is still looking
above the stage. It is a good
night. We have all got a taste for
champagne, so we have some
more.
A ROUND eleven-o’clock a
bunch of bodgies and wid-
*>ies take the table next to ours
and talk and perform as they
usually do. They intrigue John-
son, and every so often he sneaks
a long look at them. I have a
duty-dance with Mary. She
sticks her behind out and
crouches over me like some mad
vulture devouring its prey. It is
a dance to forget. As soon as I
decently can I lead her back to
the table.
Annabelle has gone to the
powder-room and Johnson is
looking at the bodgie-widgie out-
fit. He doesn’t look up as we
sit down. He looks too long,
and the biggest bodgie says,
“Who do you think you’re staring
at, pal?”
Johnson grins, “You,” he says
with vast good-nature; “you
must be one of them bodgies
I’ve been hearing about.”
The gentleman in the frock-
coat and snakeproof pants is not
amused. He makes a major mis-
take, he leans over and smacks
Johnson across the face with the
back of his hand.
I drink the rest of my cham-
pagne quickly and regretfully,
because it will certainly be the
last I’ll drink here.
The bodgie says, “Yair, that’s
right, pal,” and stands up. John-
son can, when necessary, move
incredibly fast.
The bodgie has barely stood
up when Johnson fits him. It is
a clean, beautifully-timed blow,
and it lifts the man on to his
table and over the other side into
a widgie’s lap.
I move in beside Johnso and
flatten the first one who stands
up.
There are five bodgies, two
down and three to go. They
make themselves a little difficult
for a few seconds until Johnson
has another victory. Then I feel
a firm hit on the back of my
head ; it’s not hard enough, and
I start to get cross.
The widgies have worked
round the back and one tried to
bottle me. However, we needn’t
have worried, Mary has come
into her own, she is a sight for'
my poor weak eyes. Deadly,
methodically, she is pasting every
widgie within reach. And Mary
has a mighty long reach.
Then the waiters arrive and it’s
all over. A big bouncer lays a
hand on Johnson and Johnson
says slowly and clearly, “Take
your hands off me, boy” ; and
the bouncer does exactly that.
He asks us nicely if we’ll leave.
We reply certainly, we were go-
ing anyway.
Annabelle is waiting at the
door, so we get our coats and find
Mehitabel.
It has been a good night. Yes-
sir. Mary and Johnson are con-
gratulating themselves on being
a good fighting-team. Johnson
says, “Ah, me brave Mary, and
what a set of champions we’ll
breed.” Mary goes girlish and
coy, which is a wonderful thing
to behold.
We take the girls back to the
hospital because they have to
check-in by midnight.
'T'HE night is really only a pup.
I get on the ’phone and ring
a friend of mine who has a share
in another night-club. He fixes
everything and we are welcomed
in a manner befitting friends of
the owners.
We catch the last part of the
second floor-show and have a
certain amount of strong drink.
We leave about three-o’clock and
Johnson has a brilliant idea. He
must at all costs buy a dozen
nice hot pies for Boozer.
After some trouble we find a
pie-cart and Johnson buys his
pies. “The hell with you, John-
son,” I say, “and your flamin’
pies.” It is not all that cosy in
an open jeep at three-o’clock and
the morning.
I’m damned if I know what
I do wrong, but we are driving
serenely home, minding our own
business, interfering with no one,
completely in accord with the
rest of the world, and who should
pull alongside but one sitting-
down policeman with friend. It
is one of the few sidecar outfits
I’d seen in Sydney on this trip
but they are sure there now.
The jeep being left-hand-
drive, they motion to Johnson
to slow down. Johnson turns
his empty hands upwards and
says, “Look, no hands.”
This makes the policeman
cross and he starts to threaten
Johnson with all sorts of things.
Sure, sure, I know I should have
stopped. But I didn’t.
Johnson takes umbrage at
being spoken like this, reaches
into the paper bag, and, from a
distance of four feet clobbers the
copper with a hot meat pie. He
says, “Pull up the anchors, Herb,
boy, we’re not here.”
I feed Mehitabel the herbs
and she lays back her ears and
leaves. I am cursed with the
sort of humor that makes me
laugh at the most unfunny
moments.
That policeman trying to clear
his eyes of pie-juice and control
his machine at 40 miles per hour
at the same time is one of the
most unforgettable sights of my
life. I think I must preserve my-
self for my grandchildren. I
whip the jeep round the first
available corner, then around
the next. We are about two
seconds too slow. The police-
man in the sidecar has control
of the steering while his mate
attends to his toilet.
They are a good combination,
these two. I am helping them
too, because my eyes are full of
tears from laughing and I can’t
see straight.
A few more corners and I’m
as lost as Burke and Wills. Then
the coppers are on us again and
Johnson kneels on his seat and
hurls a pie; he misses. The next
one hits the sidecar-man, which
of course doesn’t stop anyone.
“Wait till you see the whites of
their eyes, Johnso,” I yell.
The next pie has the driver’s
name on it. He ducks into it,
and slows down fast. This time
I think we are free for sure.
Then Mehitabel starts missing.
I dive for the choke and she
picks-up for a while, but she’s
not her old self at all. Right
ahead is a landmark and I know
where I am. Once again the
policeman has seen us turn the
comer.
Mehitabel comes-good for
nearly a mile apd we put on the
big wheel. I can hear their siren
getting closer when we start to
slow-down. More choke and we
pick-up. We dive round the
corner where the pub is, but
they’re right on us and we have
to keep going.
We do a circuit of the block
and they’ve caught us. Johnson
in desperation throws all the pies
in rapid succession. One must
have hit the spark-plug because
we leave ’em for dead.
TlfE slip her into the garage in
’ v back of the pub and I head
upstairs, fast. Boozer bounds
out of whichever dark corner the
drunken bum happened to be
and falls over Johnson. John-
son stops to pat and console
Boozer on the loss of his pies and
* keep going. When I reach our
room I fly into bed boots and
al'™d pull the covers over my
Jobnson doe „ n > t comp i Clir<sp
J onns on doesn t come. 1 curse
hin ‘ a {l d wait ‘ A n< wait a^ d
wait Damn you, Johnson, why
don’t you come. I think as sure
as (j od niade little apples these
CO pg w j]j fj nc t Johnso and all
because he stops to talk to a
bloody great pooch who is nearly
as dumb as he is.
Then , hear a foot on the
stai then another and another
j think we , re we . re
we - re ruddy well gone. I think
of what old other used to
Say regardmg my associating
with people like Johnson. Is she
■ h , r *j h ,
k rh ’ e door the light
on and a bi /S and fumb les for
m y bedclothes, gets a grip, and
pl f lls everything off me I stop
to snore. Doesn’t
hardly scem to be much use wi , h
me in fu|l march i n g-order.
They have got Johnson and
Johnson is very glum. The No.
1 policeman - has got meat and
gravy all over his uniform and
cap. I feel like grinning but
don’t.
It seems we have committed
something like fifteen offences.
They sound very serious and
formidable the way these cops
tell it.
I am starting to sweat a little.
Every time I start to speak they
shut me up. They seem to have
a set on me and I never threw a
pie all night. After a while it is
plain we’re going to get at least
five years for our night’s work.
These boys really give me the
business and I don’t mean per-
haps. That twenty-minutes I
would rate as the most uncom-
fortable I’ve ever spent in my
life.
Then Johnson says, “Well, I
suppose we’d better have one.”
I look at him like he’s nuts.
The cops stand back and grin.
I don’t get it, I just watch.
Johnson says, “Herb, do you
remember our plane-trip down?”
I nod, Johnson grins. “Let me
introduce you to Mounted Con-
stable Follet, late of Tibooburra,
and Constable Minsky, late of
White Cliffs.”
I shake hands. Follet says,
“You’re a lucky pair of peanuts
you picked on me and Minsky
for your pie-throwin’ act. Any
of the other boys would have
lumbered you good.”
Johnson says, “Herb, go down
qnd get four bottles of cham-
pagne off Dave, will you?” I
head for the door, and Johnson
says sternly, “Don’t forget the
proper glasses now, Herb.”
J hand it to Johnso he’s got
me good for that plane-trip
business.
Dave takes some finding. He’s
in his own bedroom of all places.
He smartens up when I tell him
the story.
When I get back upstairs
Mounted Constable Follet is re-
porting to headquarters. He does
not give his exact location. The
next time he reports it’s from
somewhere else. Every half-hour
he reports. He’s getting better
every time, too. Four bottles
doesn’t last long. By eight-
o’clock Follet has chased four
suspected car-thieves and done
all manner of intrepid things.
We see these boys off and
stagger back to bed.
“Johnso,” I say, “ole boy, ole
boy, this Sydney town is gettin’
too hot for us, Johnso ; let’s go
back to the Centre, or down to
Renmark, grape-pickin’; they
say there’s thousands and thou-
sands of blondes down in Ren-
mark, Johnso. Thousands and
thousands of ’em. Do you know
that, Johnso?”
But my friend Johnson would
appear to be asleep, and cradled
in his arms is his great friend,
Boozer.


CAKE IN THE HAT BOX
Arthur Upfield
A new Napoleon Bonaparte detective novel
t At all booksellers - - - 11/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : s SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
OUTSTANDING NEW BOOKS
PRISONER IN PARADISE
by Garet Rogers —“....a rough, tough and
long medical n0ve1.... compelling and diffi-
cult to forget” —-(Saturday Review), “....a
sympathetic study of a complex, violent and
fully believable person—the raw stuff of
life the portrait is as frightening as it
is merciless.” —(New York Times)
15/6 (post 1/1)
BY REEP AND PALM
by Louis Becke —a collection of fourteen of
his best short stories of the Pacific Islands.
13/6 (post 7d.)
CAKE IN THE HAT BOX
by Arthur Upfield—the latest Napoleon Bona-
parte mystery. “Even by Upfield’s best
standards, it’s an unusually engrossing and in-
tensely colourful case.” —(New York Times').
11/6 (post 7d.)
NOT AS A STRANGER
by Morton Thompson —“....a triumphant
and powerful novel about the medical pro-
fession... .When all the shouting is over, I
think the critics will place it among the
great works of American fiction.” —{Chicago
Daily News). 22/6 (post 1/5)
You’ll find these, and all the books you want at .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95
lereagh Street, Sydney
- 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
Available at all booksellers
PRAY FOR A BRAVE HEART
An exciting new novel by the author of “I and My True
Love” and “Above Suspicion.”
HELEN MacINNES
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
re-created. The pagan gods are
worshipped along with the conflicting
orthodoxies of the Greek and Roman
forms of Christianity. No one had
consciously set out to make a Utopia.
Suggestions that Utopia has been
attained are frowned on. What has
happened is that life proceeds, regu-
lated and graced by a composite of
world thought and religion (Confucian-
ism included).
The book has a plot. So far, so
good, and very good indeed. But what
Lin Yutang has in reality created most
subtly is a glorious vehicle for a sort
of series of parables that comment on
human life and thought as they are at
this year of grace.
There is, incidentally described, the
unexpected result of the United States
undertaking to provide every Soviet
citizen with a pair of shoes. There are
the shrewdest and most unobjection-
able comments on world religions. It
is all very gentle and very, very clever;
and, then, there are some wonderful
characters to round it out completely.
Czechoslovakia
There really isn’t any excuse for
reviewing Jaroslav Hasek’s The Good
Soldier Schweik at this date. It has
been knocking around as a Penguin for
years, after “sweeping all Europe with
the virility of its satire,” and only
happened to fall freshly before the
present reviewer’s eyes because John
Fountain lent a copy to Norman
Lindsay; and Mr. Lindsay, sharing
one’s own inability to wrap up parcels,
asked one to return it.
But it would be a pity, not having
been able to resist reading it in transit,
and finding it so delightful, to let it go
back to its rightful owner without some
passing word: if only to say how oddly,
being a comparable modem picaresque,
it reverses the motifs of Malory and
Cervantes.
For Don Quixote, even if Cervantes
did set out to satirise the kind of
knight-errantry which Malory delighted
in, still went searching for the joy of
battle; and so, too, though private
fisticuffs and duellings sufficed him in
peaceful England, did Tom Jones: but
here is this good soldier Schweik —in
and out of military prisons, malingering
in hospitals, magnificently missing his
train on the way to the front, resolutely
wandering in the wrong direction “to
rejoin his unit” and at the last seen
gently stealing away from the spectacle
of World War I —doing everything he
possibly can to avoid the alleged joys
of battle.
No wonder, seeing the time Europe
has had of it, that Schweik has become,
as Mr. Fountain from his war-time
travels assures one, a figure something
like Babbitt on the Mad Continent,
only infinitely more beloved: the artful
dodger, the professional malingerer, the
worst batman in the world, the true
modem hero who, when he meets the
bureaucracy, confounds it by his cheer-
ful imbecility and, when he meets a
war, walks, with the utmost good sense,
instantly in the opposite direction.
Schweik is the eternal Common
Man who outlasts all wars and
tyrannies and —stubborn, solid and
humorous as the earth itself, obscured
a little in propagandism in the anti-
clerical chapters, superb in all his con-
flicts with officialdom, a Sancho Panza
too shrewd to believe in a Quixote —it
is a rare pleasure to meet him in the
midst of modern Europe.
Africa
One day someone will discover
something really nasty in whatever the
Eskimos use for woodpiles—or . the
igloo-people will start terrorist move-
ments or something—and then a dozen-
score of competent novelists will exploit
the Arctic.
But, meanwhile, the steamy African
jungles still hold these gentlemen’s
attention, and The Village in the Trees,
by Jonas Lamptey (Heinemann), is the
latest (but not, one feels only too sure,
the last) of its tribe. It’s all about a
young man with no attachments of any
sort in England, who goes to Nyankwa
to supervise mine-loading and gets
mixed-up with local nastinesses among
the blacks, whites and what-have-yous
of the community, not to mention the
horrid secrets of the fetish grove.
To think such wickedness could be!
Not badly written, either.
South Sea Island
Green Heart of Heaven, by Roderic
Owen (Collins), is an extraordinary con-
fection which might have been more
successful had the author allowed his
material to develop as the satire it so
often nearly becomes.
Well-written and intelligent, the
novel tells of the beautiful daughter of
an English Governor of a South Seas
island group, and of her love affair
with the Oxford-educated son of the
High Chief.
The main characters fail to engage
one’s sympathy as they should if the
book is to, be read as “romance,” be-
cause their creator insists on viewing
them and their actions with the amused
detachment of the satirist; and at the
same time the satirical fantasy fails to
develop because the method keeps
changing from the slapdash to the
serious.
Two from England
The Even Keel, by Rayne Kruger
(Longmans), is a thoroughly competent,
entertaining, run-of-the-mill novel by
an author who, a few years ago, seemed
likely to be going to make a really
original contribution to English fiction.
Here the hoary theme of two brothers
who love the same woman is given a
degree of urgency and interest by good
characterisation of all concerned, and
by the background—a large shipbuild-
ing company whose affairs, in the
hands of an unscrupulous financier,
provide the subsidiary theme and the
momentum that sets the characters
spinning.
Rayne Kruger can certainly write
—his descriptive passages, both of
landscape and shipbuilding yards, are
excellent. Perhaps his weakness in
this book, as in its predecessor, “My
Name Is Celia,” is that, while the
central female characters are made
quite credible, they never seem quite
to “belong” with the fairly normal men
of the stories or with their accidental
backgrounds.
Not Honour More, by Joyce Cary
(Michael Joseph), concludes the trilogy
of the career of the Liberal politician
Chester Nimmo. New readers could
probably start here, but truly to appre-
date the book prior knowledge of
Nimmo and Nina, his ex-wife, would
be an advantage.
The narrator of “Not Honour More”
is Captain Jim Latter, Nina Nimmo’s
first love and last husband. Latter is
one of those rare uncomfortable people
whose absolute honesty is only matched
by their pig-headedness. Nimmo under-
estimates these qualities of Latter’s as
he plays him (or tries to) like a puppet
in the games of love and politics.
He tells his tragic tale in an arid,
brittle, ruthless style which, if one
accepts his character, is extraordinarily
effective. Not everyone’s book, but
none the worse for that.
The Deep South
Pompey’s Head, by Hamilton Basso
(Collins), is a really satisfying novel
by an author who has written for
the “New Yorker”—a qualification
that allows it to be taken for granted
that he has style.
He has more than that, however—
he can tell a good story at length
and in a most complicated form
combining the “flashback” device
with a plot that goes relentlessly for-
ward. Pompey’s Head is a town in
the deep south, and the story is about
Garvin Wales, a grand old man of
American fiction, blind now and
dominated by his wife, who has accused
the editor of her husband’s publishing
firm of embezzling $20,000 of his
royalties.
Basso writes from a particularly
sane and restrained standpoint. This
is not the steamy world of Faulkner,
Truman Capote and Eudora Welty—
or, rather, it is exactly the same world
differently (and very refreshingly)
emphasised.
Another from the southern American
States is The Beggars in the Sun, by
Paul Darcy Boles (Cape), a thoroughly
entertaining novel that just misses being
outstanding because of a slight excess
of homespun sentimentality,
It is told by Carp Rambo, a singer of
folk-songs who hates steady work
largely because the bars and cabarets
which would employ him like him to
sing in what he calls the “hill-william”
style. Something of a poet, too, this
man, who sets out one spring day to
buy a hound for his 19-year-old wife.
In the company of another youth—
John Virgin (nicknamed by opposites)
—he acquires, that day, not only a fine
coon-hound but a congenial job and
the love of a fine lady,
The rest of the book covers the
following year—Carp loving and loved
by his wife and the lady, hated by the
lady’s husband and getting involved
in sundry adventures. The yarn is
spoken in Carp’s idiomatic drawl, and,
with its picaresque inconsequence,
makes most agreeable reading. Graced
by a beautifully drawn cover, the novel
is done no service by its flippant and
inaccurate blurb.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 342
Across
I—Who1 —Who throws Bradman into a
horse-race? (9)
s—Bet often against this party
laughter for a letter. (5)
8 — Stop the ill-favored ruffian. (4-4)
9 Amatory Eric swallows Otway.
(6)
11 — Catch on a branchlet. (4)
12— In the centre of cricketing
Johnson, the first person set back
such Biblical characters. (10)
14—A member of the Sara family
exhibits her fury before I am a
Sunday at the beginning of Lent.
(12)
16 —Very close hybrid with a hair-do’s
fare for Easter. (3, 5,4)
20 — Renown is not talent. (10)
21— Willows turned pink. (4)
24 — The force of a collision agree-
ment is against him in a careless
moment. (6)
25 — This piece of geography is to
make Chopin’s lady-friend behave
in an unladylike manner and
shingle mine. (8)
26 — Dries out of such journeys by
horseback. (5)
27 — State name given to a craft
which stood up to the flood with
a stationery sign. (9)
Down
1— Boozed on the way up into this
base for stores. (5)
2 Misrepresenting a lunatic of the
sea. (8)
3 Musical instrument turned up to
border upon a conjunction. (4)
4 The throne of Tal is occupied by
him, not mum. (7)
5 Article written on King George
with nothing fogless to finish off
an expert in farm management.
GO)
6 Small, dainty and chic favorite
takes it over the East. (6)
7 Habituates the current to the
luggage-searchers. (9)
10 —Hurries a greeting to Esmond.
(4)
13 — Hunchbacks’ footballers are out
of sorts. (10)
14 — Queer Lin can become more
regal. (9)
15— This makes Kemal sum up the
strike with mirth. (8)
17 — A reason for some snivelling
century long in the tooth. (4)
18— The 10th batsman dismissed is so
to stay longer! (7)
19 — Arrest Edward! Excavated store-
houses are overturned. (6)
22 Club Eisenhower curtailed
Javanese wax painting. (5)
23 — Rode into a river. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 341


r
:«Sili«iiiiWiilig
mgmfi
...
mr\
ST*
-tin.
1»
Vm v
mhdik
N’i
StC*
£.:&#4«ttfck
rr.tnwirx t ™.
SW*»
i- ...
**>
ii,m i :
* 1
ti
W
sS
r
sfe»
/ 7'
**
///
51W
*r
ML Isa cleans up
You can see it any day of the year, but you’ll always remember
the first time.
Dry, rocky outcrops, sprouting clumps of spinifex. The hot,
barren Western plains stretching away to the horizon. The
rearing smoke stacks and massive slag heaps of Mt. Isa etched
dark and grim against the sky.
It’s an almost outer-space landscape, shimmering in a heat
haze that causes distance to slide and merge, plane upon plane,
like the emulsion on a badly developed negative.
There’s a muffled throb all around—a puzzling vibration that
seems to make the hot, still air quiver, and you look frowning
at the jumbled rocks, expecting them to suddenly open and
disclose the mystery.
Then you top the rise and you’re upon it—the vast crater
with the jagged lips that stretch 300 feet at the widest
point: Mt. Isa’s “Glory Hole.” A cloud of dust, swirling
turgidly in the harsh sunlight, makes the drop deceptive;
the screen lifts briefly and a sudden flash of light catches
the rugged shapes of the diesel tractors at work hundreds
of feet below.
On die floor of the great crater you can see that the big
machines are filling in the big stopes—the disused shafts —
that once were alive with activity.
With a sudden burst of thunderous noise, a giant Caterpillar
D 8 Tractor lowers its blade and attacks an immense heap
of blasted rock, thousands of tons of it, and slowly but
inexorably thrusts it towards the open mine, then backs
away on sure-footed steel tracks across the uneven rocks
for another onslaught.
Tons of rock roar down the slope and you watch apprehen-
sively as the operator nonchalantly stops his machine just
short of the drop and pauses briefly, angled dramatically
against the floating dust cloud.
★ ★ ★
The big earthmoving project at Mt. Isa is one that demands
tough machines and tough operators. It’s pretty rough.
“Conditions for the machines are as bad as you could get,”
says Garage Superintendent, Syd. Pengelley, “but we’ve
never had an outright failure. These Caterpillar track-type
Tractors are ideal for the job-—couldn’t be bettered.”
Everywhere throughout the mines the story is the same:
men keen to get on with the job, happy with the machine
they operate. The Company has ten Caterpillar track-type
Tractors and three Caterpillar stationary Engines and,
when new machines are necessary, “Caterpillar” is the
word . . . for sheer, rugged power and dependability that
can be really measured on the right side of the ledger in
pounds, shillings and pence.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
CK-TYPE TRACTORS •
MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING—QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD., BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DEERING (N.T.) PTY.
LIMITED, ALICE SPRINGS & DARWIN
NEW GUINEA: HASTINGS DEERING (NEW GUINEA)
PTY. LIMITED, LAE.
