

sdfg
THE HOUSE
df
V
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
SWAN RIVER CHIEFTAIN— page 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3908
Wednesday, January 5, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
COLCHESTER, AMONG THE
EARLIEST OF
ROMAN TOWNS IN BRITAIN
T ONG before the Romans sent their
legions across the English Channel,
Colchester, or Camulodunum as it was
then called, was an important centre on
the River Colne in Essex. Nearly two
thousand years ago it was the Royal seat
of King Cunobelinus, who was later
immortalised by Shakespeare in his play
“Cymbeline.” Many coins of this period
found in Colchester are preserved in one
of the town’s museums.
In a.d. 44 the Roman emperor-Claudius
captured the town and established there
a colony of veterans, making Colchester
one of the first Roman towns in Britain.
Seventeen years later Boadicea, the
British Warrior Queen, at the head of her
tribes, the Iceni and Trinobantes, routed
the Roman garrison and put Colchester
to fire and sword.
Revenge was exacted by the Roman
general Suetonius, and Boadicea, seeing
the rout and slaughter of the army which
she had led from her famous chariot,
ended her life by taking poison. Soon
after this event the Romans built a wall
to protect the town, and today the remains
of this wall can still be seen in Colchester.
It extends for a mile and a half, and one
section adjoins the ancient r Church of
St. Mary-at-the-Walls. This 15th-
century church was damaged during the
76-day siege of 1648 when Cromwell’s
Ironsides rose against King Charles and
the town was garrisoned by Royalist
forces. After the bitter fighting all that
remained of the church was the lower
portion of the tower, and upon this, in
later years, was erected a belfry in red
brick.
The oldest church tower in Colchester,
however, is that of Holy Trinity, shown
in the accompanying illustration. The
tower dates from the year 1050 and is a
fine example of late Saxon architecture.
In the north chapel of the church is a
monument commemorating William
Gilberd, M.D., physician to Queen Eliza-
beth I, who was also a pioneer of
electrical science and was famous in his
day throughout Europe.


LOOK DOWN THIS LIST
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-studv
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, ot Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Qrenleil
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
J To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
I obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in
{ MY NAME
I ADDRESS . .
{ (S.B. 155) AGE......
BOOKSEARCHING
is our business. We locate new or
out-of-print books in any language.
Send to us for that book you can’t
find; we get results.
THE WAKELYS
C.P.O. Box 2656, Auckland, C.l, N.Z.
Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK*
HUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. Quick service moderate charges.
The Red Page
NEW ZEALAND SAILOR
In its unpretentious way, P. A. Eaddy’s
Sails Beneath the Southern Cross
(Reed ; Wellington) is an excellent book
for those who like to read about the great
days when the sea really was the sea,
and it is a pity that Mr. Eaddy has
somewhat clogged it for the general
reader by interrupting his fine personal
reminiscences (he was a sailor from the
age of one, when he toddled out from
England to Auckland in 1883 on the
Shaw Savill barque Clyde) with slabs
of statistics about the Auckland regatta
and long, bare tabulations of lost ships.
However, these chapters may add to
the special interest of the book for
yachtsmen and old salts, and there
remains so much admirable auto-
biography that it is still too good to
miss. There is, for instance, as lovely a
piece of seascape as one could ever hope
to come across, when the author is
rolling from New Zealand to Port
Adelaide through the Bass Strait in the
old Neptune with a load of sawn timber:
The passage was made in midwinter with
continual westerly gales following one upon
the other to retard us. One stormy moon-
light night during this voyage we saw a
particularly fine lunar rainbow, and sailing
under its spectacular arch to windward of
us was a splendid four-masted barque
under all plain sail. It was one of the
most beautiful sights that I have ever wit-
nessed at sea. The full moon riding high
in the heavens, silver and scintillating, with
the never-ending procession of dark clouds
mounting upwards and turning white as
they raced across the moon’s face, and the
two lonely ships battling across that stormy
stretch of sea and passing each other under
the arch of that wonderful lunar rainbow.
There is, too, a magnificently fresh
splash of saltwater when, full of the
vigor of youth (having got over his
fearful seasickness and the minor irrita-
tion of the rats that ate his toes in the
gloryhole at night), Mr. Eaddy is off to
Tonga on his first open-sea voyage in
the Ysabel, with three horses and a
dozen sheep on deck, crates of groceries
in the hold and a buggy and two carts
strung up in the mizzen rigging:
From then on I devoted all my attention
to the steering 1 was fascinated by this
headlong flight, when, at one moment, one
would b‘e watching the sudden dazzling
burst of snow-white froth around the bows
as they sheared through the green of a
towering comber, and the next instant
finding oneself gazing into a liquid wall of
white foam-flecked sea which had reared
up to leeward and was now running parallel
with the ship. The color of the sea changed
with lightning-like rapidity in the grow-
ing dawn and when, with a burst of light,
the sun itself shot high above a falling
sea-top, its beauty was intensified a hundred-
fold.
Mr. Eaddy makes one share his regret
at how difficult it is for a young fellow
to get to sea these days (partly a result
of the vested-interest of the unions, one
might add); how different it all is from
the days when Auckland was “the port
of registry for dozens of small sailing-
vessels,” upon almost any of which a
boy could set off to the South Seas,
England or Valparaiso, and when
Circular Quay in Sydney—where Mr.
Eaddy took his choice between going
back to Auckland on a timber-ship, sail-
ing for Vladivostok in a tramp-steamer,
taking an intercolonial barque for Fiji
or a schooner for the New Hebrides—
was the same. Jack London’s yacht the
Snark, down from the Solomons, was
lying in Johnston’s Bay on that occa-
sion; Mr. Eaddy and his shipmates
passed her on their way to Newcastle,
where they decided to join the Carnarvon
Bay for Valparaiso.
Not, though, that Sails Beneath the
Southern Cross is all scenery and glamor.
Mr. Eaddy does say that he never sailed
under the traditional bullying mates or
captains of fiction, and he seems to have
escaped being knocked down with a
belaying-pin; but there were certainly
plenty of rats, cockroaches and storms,
with an occasional fall into the sea from
the rigging. There was Kow Kow West,
the Greek skipper who, en route to
Rarotonga, thoughtfully put back to
Napier to slay his wife’s lover; there
was the Malay cook named Willie aboard
the Tom Fisher at Cairns, who ran amuck
with an axe but fortunately turned his
attention to the mainmast, which he
accused of following him around—the
skipper knocked him down with a
hardwood hatch-batten and there
were some pretty grim adventures
when the author and his friends humped
their blueys into North Queensland to go
“tin-scratching” and found, after they
had pushed out from Chillagoe (“one of
the most God-forsaken spots I’d ever
landed at ) that they d come in the dry
season when there wasn’t any water in
the creeks to sluice what tin they found,
-t., . , ~ r ,
The, most dramatic of Mr. Eaddy s
adventures was when the Carnarvon Bay,
en route from Portland, Oregon, to
England, struck an iceberg in a fog off
Cape Horn ; an incident which subse-
quently so affected the steersman, Old
Tom, who first sighted the berg, that he
«?<* to counting the stars at night “and
pity help any unfortunate shipmate who
interrupted him in his astronomical cal-
culations, for he would turn round in a
fury and demand to be left alone.” The
Carnarvon Bay was lucky enough not to
be holed below the waterline by the
collision, striking with her port yard-
arms and, losing the wind,
coming to a standstill alongside the iceberg
which towered above her in a sheer cliff
as Perpendicular as the wall of a great
building We had struck the iceberg a
glancing blow on the lee side, and the ship
now lay in calm water....as quiet and
still as though she were in a dock alongside
a h ‘ Bh block of “•»'
So large an event as this must of
course be mentioned in a review, but
P erha PS the greatest interest of Sails
Beneath the Southern Cross lies nearer
home: in the lively account of Mr.
b ° yhood f «>* north and
at Auckland (swinging from rata-Vines
into the swimming-hole ; or stealing their
own boat back from the harbor authorities
w , ho were holding her for salvage dues
after s h e had got adrift) ;in the descrip-
tion of Auckland’s oyster-girls and in
the stories of the almost-forgotten coastal
vesse ls in which Mr. Eaddy began his
career , sailing out from the Waitemata
for the far north or the Ba Y of Plenty,
Timber-barques and shingle-scows
may not sound the epitome of Conradian
romance, but it is surprising what
adventures they had when the whales
snorted in the night or the surf crashed
on the coast.
How Are Your Billbergias?
It may seem a little arbitrary to
approach Mr. Richmond E. Harrison’s
large and lavish Handbook of Bulbs and
Perennials for the Southern Hemisphere
with a critical eye on what he may have
to say about billbergias; but it is a fact
that one’s billbergias are not looking at
all well.
It is not, on reflection, that billbergias
are particularly dear to one. Their name
sounds pleasantly like Bill the Burglar,
and they are amiable-looking: reedy
things with tassels; but there are literary
problems of more moment to engage one’s
anxieties.
However, a colleague who rejoices in
the mellifluous nom-de-plume of “Bo”
brought them into The Bulletin most
tenderly wrapped in wet newspaper—
how we have all fallen into respectability
since everybody came in roaring drunk,
leading a crayfish on a string!—and one
planted them. They exist, and they pine.
Mr. Harrison seems to have the answer
to all that in one word: they ought to
be in the shade.
There is another grave problem to
which Mr. Harrison supplies the answer.
The last time one wrote something about
transplanting wildflowers from the bush
(it was a banksia ; and did very well, too)
there came to the Red Page such a heart-
rending cry of agony from the Wild-
flower Protection Society that one shrank
ashamed into a corner and very nearly
planted oneself in the wastepaper-basket.
And yet one would like some Christmas-
bells. Mr. Harrison, who, for a mere New
Zealander, seems to know a great deal
about Australian wildflowers, and condi-
tions over here generally, tells us pre-
cisely how to grow Christmas-bells from
seed (they generally flower the second
season after planting); so that is all right
and the Wildflower Society may rest in
peace.
Thus Mr. Harrison’s book is obviously
of immense utility to a common (or gar-
den) amateur, and no doubt experts will
find it equally respectable. He deals, to
put it briefly, with every bulb and peren-
nial one would think of growing in Aus-
tralia or New Zealand and is, according
to the dustjacket, “the best-known nur-
seryman in New Zealand.” Keeling and
Mundy Ltd., of Palmerston North, New
Zealand, have published the book, which
is a very handsome production illustrated
with 300 color-plates. They should, of
course, be reproductions of paintings
instead of colored photographs, but that
will not worry the billbergias.
Spanish Paradox
The Golden Century of Spain by R.
Trevor Davies (Macmillan), first pub-
lished in 1937 and now reprinted, is a
fine example of the modem historian’s
ability, backed by the minute and
detailed research of many monographing
specialists, to resolve the contradictions
of history , and present them in clear
patterns within reasonable space.
The years 1501-1621 which comprise
this history are the years in which Spain
threw the bullion of America into the
currencies of Europe. It is estimated
that at the time of the discovery of
America, the total of Europe’s gold and
silver currencies was about £33,400,000.
Between 1503 and 1620, Spanish imports
of gold and silver bullion from America
were about £180,000,000. During the
century prices in Spain quadrupled. Yet
during this period the Spanish Govern-
ment was always hard-up ; and at one
point bankrupt. Debasement of the cur-
rency sent gold and silver coinage out of
circulation ; settlement of large debts was
made in copper money, so that “the
money paid for wax candles would weigh
nearly three times as much as the candles
and occupy almost as much space.”
That was in the reign of Philip 111,
who had given the govermnent over to
unprincipled and rapacious Ministers;
but the initial cause of Spain’s bank-
ruptcy was the noble foreign-policy of
Philip II:
For Europe as a whole, perhaps, the
most important effect of American treasure
was Philip ll’s foreign policy, the most
expensive and ambitious known since the
days of aheient Rome. Without the steadily
expanding stream of silver from America
such a policy would have been unthinkable.
When the stream ceased to expand, and
began to contract after the turn of the
century, disaster was almost inevitable.
Philip 11, Mr. Davies thinks, sub-
scribed to the current belief that more
than one religion in one State would
bring it to destruction. Either you had
a Catholic State or a Protestant State.
That is why Philip, a Catholic of
Catholics, strove to ease the persecutions
by his first wife, Bloody Mary, of her
English Protestant subjects. That is why
the Protestant Elizabeth of England con-
gratulated Philip on the Duke of Alva’s
execution of thousands of Dutch Calvin-
ists when they rebelled against the
Spanish authority in 1566, sacking
monasteries, killing and maltreating
monks and nuns and looting Antwerp
cathedral.
Elizabeth the Protestant was Philip’s
worst enemy, yet his whole policy was to
keep her on the English throne: she
was his sole bulwark against, of all
people, the Catholic Mary Queen of
Scots. To have a Catholic Queen of
England would have been one thing ; to
have had Mary, who was one of the
House of Guise, would have been
another. For the Guises, those plotters
who make such marvellous villains in the
Dumas romances, hoped to get by force
or inheritance the kingdom of France:
then, with a Guise also ruling England,
there would come into being a “Guise
empire” which would be fatal to Philip
ll’s Weltpolitik
For twenty years, Elizabeth could do
anything she pleased with Spain ; then the
possibility of a Protestant France with
the Protestant Henry of Navarre at its
head gradually threw Philip and the
Guises together. He gave them money;
they gave him assurances that, as Queen
of England, Mary Queen of Scots would
be a good Spaniard. This new develop-
ment was Mary’s death-warrant. Philip
then became party to rebellions and plots
against England and Elizabeth; and then
went on to the Armada:
English writers have usually sought to
■ heighten the dramatic effect of the destruc-
tion of the Armada by picturing it filled
with pride and overweening self-confidence.
This picture is far from true, as Philip’s
many “instructions” show. To the Spanish
leaders it was a desperate adventure against
overwhelming odds—a forlorn hope,
almost.
The expulsion of all Moors from Spain
in the early 16Q0’s will seem a final
symptom of this rich and fortunate
nation’s decision, with the most Christian
motives and the most gentlemanly ideals,
to ruin itself. Among the 500,000 Moors
expelled were Spain’s “most skilled agri-
culturists, artisans, weavers, metal-
workers, tradesmen and financiers” ; they
were, moreover, among the few of
Spain’s 8,000,000 citizens who cared to
work. The American colonies were a
further drain upon Spanish workers. By
1570, a “quarter of the adult population
was clerical; there being 400,000 monks,
312,000 priests and 200,000 in minor
orders.” There were some 150,000
beggars.
keviewed Briefly
Kemlo and the Crazy Planet and
Kemlo ancl the Zones of Silence: E. C.
Eliott (Nelson). Two of a series of space-
adventures for boys. Cloth-bound and
cheap. One took them to offer to a boy,
hoping that, being brought up in a good
home, he might reject them with con-
tempt. But he did not.
* * * *
Out of the Dark ; Poems: Phoebe
Hesketh (Heinemann), These are the
kind of poems, once you pick them up
you can l see why she put them down.
But they are very well written.
* * * *
Pope: lan Jack (Longmans for the
British Council). No. 48 of the “Writers
and their Work” pamphlets, with portrait
of Pope and his dog (Bounce). Mr. Jack
touches lightly upon the variety, smooth-
ness and compression of Pope’s couplets,
and considers he was at his greatest in
satire ; but when he gives him also the
“sadness-at-the-heart” of Mozart’s music
he perhaps forgets the malignant little
spider’s web of persecution around Lady
Mary Montague.
* * * *
Pottery Making from the Ground Up :
York Honore (Museum Press), An
interesting and constructive book, mainly
for amateurs of ceramics. It covers the
manufacture of pottery from the actual
digging of suitable clay to the final firing.
Particularly helpful to home pottery-
makers are the sections on the construc-
tion of a kiln and potter’s-wheel. Simply
and clearly written with excellent
descriptive illustrations.
* * *
My Name Is Celia: Rayne Kruger
(Longmans). Rayne Kruger, further dis-
playing his versatility, sets his latest novel
in post-war Berlin. Celia Dewberry, wife
of a successful London surgeon, mother
of a small son, competent hostess, talented
painter—an apparently contented and
fairly respectable middle-class woman-
had a German uncle with whom she had
stayed in Berlin as a girl. He had said
that if the Nazis became much worse he
would convert his fortune into gold and
bury it for her in his garden. In search
of this money, only half-believing in its
existence and against the reasoning of her
husband, Celia goes to Berlin. The people
she meets there, some living in the ruins
of her uncle’s bombed-out house, are
demoralised by their experiences, accord-
ing to their natures and age. Gerd, the
young man of the house, is a violent
psychopathic type—crook, spy and pimp ;
but Celia comes under his evil influence
physically and spiritually. As a mildly-
spicy adventure story the book is good
and competent enough, but not compar-
able with the young South African’s three
previous novels —books which, each quite
different, have given him his high repu-
tation. The main fault in My Name Is
Celia is that real evil is almost never
contrasted with good, the total effect being
one of sordid misery rather than that
clash of values which tragedy requires.


Telephone
WHY OUR
number has been changed
TO
*****
ill
m$
m
Ml
m
hi
S' - •;
80951
{, ' u;.‘.
• • • The story of the development of the telephone in Australia is one of ever-increasing expansion and
planning for the future. This expansion has played an enormous part in the prosperity and growth of Anthony
Horderns’ whose problems of providing a better telephone shopping service has always been a major consideration.
With over 360,000 'phones connected in Sydney alone, and with Exchanges continually being enlarged to cope with
the increasing demand, it is little wonder that even such a network of lines as we have, must eventually become
overburdened and inadequate. Our inward and outgoing calls amount to millions per year, so, in order to provide
for the increase in service, the Telephone Department found it necessary to give Anthony Horderns’ an entirely
new number, thus: 80951- We hope you will soon become as familiar with 80951 as you were with the old number. We are
sorry to lose it, but as the Department explains: "A new range of numbers, together with special equipment has been
Because
m
m
designed to provide improved service where a high calling rate is involved. This
equipment is also designed to provide the most efficient service where a
large number of lines are associated with a single number
So 80951 has been allotted to Anthony Horderns’. It’s a good number. For over
131 years we have been continually building a reputation for service in every
avenue of retail supply, and, consistent with our famous motto, "While I live I’ll grow,”
here is yet another invaluable extension of service to our customers.
90 lines always at your service, day or night, at Anthony Horderns’.
To save yourself time, money and effort, just dial 80951 and do all your shopping through
T.O.P.S.
>ur streamlined
Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping team of pleasant, helpful experts will do all your-shopping for you. Put 80951 in your diary,
on the front page of your ’phone book, on the back of the kitchen
door, but most definitely put it in the page of your memory where
important ’phone numbers are kept ! Remember, H 0951 is
OUR NEW TELEPHONE NUMBER !
SsSSf
SS!"


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 5, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3908
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
BLOCS AND WORLD SECURITY
THE Asian Prime Ministers’ meeting in Java as a
preliminary to the Asian-African Conference next
April has some features which have special interest
for Australia. One in particular is that Australia
has not been invited, which is something of a snub,
considering the vigor with which Mr. Chifley and
Dr. Evatt and his Dr. Burton, and later Sir Percy
Spender, propagated the view that this country
belongs to the South-East Asian zone. Nehru had
proposed that Australia and New Zealand should
be invited, but the suggestion was coldly received
—so coldly that it was not mentioned again.
Indeed, it looks as if it may have been mentioned
at all only to provide a peg on which to hang an
invitation to Red China.
At first it was given out that India was against
sending an invitation to Peking, which would
have suggested a complete reversal of Indian policy,
the Government having snuggled as closely to Mao
as possible ever since it became independent. Then
came the hint that China, Australia and Maori-
land might be asked, and out of this arose the
participation of the Chinese. South Africa —most
pointedly—was not invited.
Following on the visit of Marshal Tito to
India and the adoption of the Indian Government
of Socialistic proposals for compulsory acquisition,
requisition and regulation of private property along
lines suspiciously like the Communism of Yugo-
slavia, a pattern somewhat disconcerting to the West
seems to be developing in Asia, with a clear-cut
division between European and Asiatic and with
the exclusion of any elements which seem to trend
towards subjection to American policies. At the
same time the nationalistic and anti-“colonial”
trends are being used for all they are worth by
Asian agitators.
The Prime Ministers who held preliminary
talks to arrange the personnel and broad agenda
for the April conference were those of India,
Pakistan, Burma, Ceylon and Indonesia. Not one
of these States is as yet really stable in either
domestic or foreign relations. Burma lives in one
piece largely because of the inability of its main
factions to arm themselves. India and Pakistan
exist almost on the rim of war through territorial
differences and natural antipathies as between
Moslem, Sikh, Hindu and other religions.
Indonesia is a national volcano with chaos in its
government and Communism Steering it towards
the chopping-block. Yet these nations are pre-
pared to take the initiative in settling the affairs of
the world on a basis which, ostensibly, is aimed at
peace, but which must, if the trends obvious at the
preliminary meeting are followed, end in cleavage
from the West.
They have invited both Red China and Japan.
And all the Arab countries, if countries most of
them can be called—lrak, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon,
Yemen, Libya and Jordan —have consented to be
present in April to plan with the rest for lessening
tensions between the Communist and Western blocs,
for the liquidation of “colonialism” everywhere,
and for mutual economic and cultural co-opera-
tion, so long as they are* not asked to lessen the
tension with Israel, which they all hope to smash.
Indonesia, of course, will fight to the death for the
liquidation of “colonialism,” so long as it is allowed
to colonise —by force if necessary, according to
Soekamo —the geographically and racially alien
Western New Guinea.
India, in its latest economic manifestations,
• seems to face everywhere at once. Nehru, whose
education is British and who speaks with the accent
of Cambridge, imbibed Marxism at some political
mother’s-knee and has never recovered from it.
His is a bewildered mind somewhat like Dr. Evatt’s.
He loathes the thought that India should be
developed by foreign money and hates “the profit
motive,” lauds Britain and —if his sister may be
believed —despises the United States as an
immature nation. He would like to promote Asian
nationalism, yet he has no wish to cut his painter
from British and American defence support. He
will not co-operate actively in U.N.O. opposition
to aggression, but he still will not leave U.N.O. or
yet fall in with its majority policies.
All the South Asian nations which are prepar-
ing to fight “colonialism” at the conference in April,
of course, accept the implications of the Colombo
Plan —or Spender Plan —under which the “im-
perialists” pour out hundreds of millions of pounds’-
worth of materials, education facilities and know-
how, to develop Asian independence.
All no doubt accept this display of generosity
by countries whom they malign as tyrannical to
poor colored peoples—Mr. Nehru’s group speaks
of all that India has suffered at the hands of the
British—as weakness and, in typical Asiatic fashion,
admire far more the bullying displays of strength
and wily bargaining, which is not dictated in any
spirit of goodwill, in which Moscow and Peking
indulge. Something-for-nothing is a doctrine no
Asian understands.
• The Colombo-planners are being repaid only
in ingratitude whioh manifests itself in many
devices. The tea-industry in Ceylon is a case in
point. It exists almost entirely as the result of the
enterprise and ability of European organisers and
planters. But Ceylon now submits the planters to
a rising plantation-tax with a view to getting as
much out of them as possible. Australia is Ceylon’s
second-best tea-buyer—it takes annually about
52,000,0001 b. And it is also—or so its “diplomatic”
Ministers claimed —the originator of the Colombo
Plan, and contributes to it on a scale and with a
promptitude and enthusiasm unmatched, popula-
tion and resources compared, by any other country
in the world. Its payments into the fund are
£17,800,000 in this year. And by way of reward,
apart from the impost levied at the source in
plantation-tax, Ceylon imposed an export-tax of
a rupee—ls. 10|d.—on every pound of tea sent to
this country.
Britain, which, with Australia, makes the
Ceylon and Asian tea-industry possible, is suffering
in the same way, and is momentarily expecting a
new rise as a result of Indian and Ceylonese taxa-
tion and restrictions and of the higher standards of
wages and the more liberal standards of strike and
stop-work which our own democrats, during years
of international busybodying, have been urging
the downtrodden Asians to adopt in imitation of
the Watersiders and other unions of Communist
caste. f
Simultaneously with the announcements of
plans for the April conference the United States
Government has released its programme for Asian
defence against Communism during the coming
year—subventions of about £500,000,000 to For-
mosa, Japan, the Philippines, Indo-China, Thailand
and Pakistan. About 80 per cent, of all military
aid abroad will go to Asia, apart from huge
economic aid through Colombo and otherwise.
Seato, meeting in Bangkok six weeks or so ahead of
the April Pan-Asian conference, will discuss the
growing flow of arms to Asia.
Basically, the general run of these conferences
disturb rather than promote world peace. They
all represent movements away from the ideal
towards which only a few clear-thinking minds—
that of Mr. Paul Hasluck is one of them—reach
out, a programme of world security under clear-
cut leadership, as opposed to bloc security and
regional community of interest. There is only one
menace in the world today—Communist world-
revolutionary doctrine. Issues of nationalism are
completely subordinate. Unified defence, military
and universal among all nations, European, Asian
and African, is the primary essential.
Federal Redistribution
FOR many Federal politicians the most interesting
Government activity listed for this year will be the
redistribution of Federal electorates. In the State
Parliaments the decision that the time has come
for a redrawing of electoral boundaries rests with
the party in power, and the privilege has been
abused so frequently that it is almost accepted that
the main object of a redistribution is to strengthen
the ruling party’s grip on office.
With the periodical Federal redistributions
there is not much ground for such suspicions,
although it does seem that the sponsors of the
1948 reshuffle —which almost amounted to a fresh
deal, as it more than doubled the size of the
Parliament and drastically altered the method of
voting for the Senate —hoped that “Labor” would
be very much the gainer. One Minister, a chief
advocate of the change, made no secret of this —a
fact which he must have regretted later when the
redistribution turned out to be, if anything, to the
disadvantage of his party, as his colleagues were
only too happy to remind him.
Earlier redistributions had been routine
affairs, carried out in obedience to the Constitution,
which is very precise on the matter. A quota is
obtained by dividing the population “as shown by
the latest statistics of the Commonwealth” by twice
the number of Senators. This quota is then divided
into the number of people in each State to decide
how many representatives each State shall have.
“Latest statistics of the Commonwealth” is inter-
preted as meaning the most recent census, and in
accordance with this an adjustment has been made
after each decennial census. The unusually short
gap between the 1947 and 1954 counts explains
why the need for fresh boundaries has cropped up
only seven years after the Great Expansion.
The formula for redistribution affects the
electorates in two ways. Uneven growth of popula-
tion as between States may mean a change in their
relative strengths in the House of Representatives,
with, of course, a redrawing of divisional boun-
daries in the States affected. Uneven growth within
a State also necessitates an adjustment of divisional
boundaries.
In the original House of Representatives the
.State representation was New South Wales, 26;
Victoria, 23; Queensland, 9; South Australia, 7;
Westralia, 5; Tasmania, 5. These numbers were
based on pre-Federation statistics, and although a
census was taken in 1901, the first adjustment was
not made until 1906, when New South Wales gained
a seat at the expense of Victoria. In 1912 Victoria
lost a seat to Queensland, and in 1922 another to
New South Wales. South Australia dropped a seat
in 1936, but as no other State showed sufficient gain
in population to complete another quota, the total
number of members was reduced from 75 to 74
(excluding the voteless member for the Northern
Territory). Along with these alterations went
considerable changes in electoral boundaries, and
quite a number of changes of name, with a tendency
to substitute the names of pioneers and legislators
for geographical names. Thus Northern Melbourne,
Southern Melbourne and Moira gave way to
Batman, Fawkner and Henty. Coolgardie disap-
peared in 1912 and Dampier replaced it, to be
superseded ten years later by Forrest. Other politi-
cal leaders honored included Griffith (Q.), Deakin
(Vic.) and Reid and Watson (N.S.W.). Among
picturesque names which disappeared from the
Victorian electoral - map were Corinella (1906),
Laanecoorie and Memda (1912).
By the time the Evatt-Calwell expansion took
place in 1948 the State figures were New South
Wales, 28; Victoria, 20; Queensland, 10; South
Australia, 6; Westralia,"s; Tasmania, 5. Whatever
adjustments might have been necessary under the
1947 census were swallowed up in the general
increase which took the voting strength of the
House to 121, composed of New South Wales, 47;
Victoria, 33; Queensland, 18; South Australia, 10;
Westralia, 8; Tasmania, 5. To enable this expan-
sion to be made within the Constitution the Senate
was enlarged from 36 to 60 members, producing
the strange anomaly in the case of Tasmania of
two Senators to every M.H.R.
As a result of the census taken last June, New
South Wales will for the first time lose a seat;
South Australia and Westralia will each gain one,
so that the House will now number 122 members,
plus the representatives of the Northern Territory
and the Capital Territory. In addition to the
changes involved in this adjustment, there will also
have to be a major reshuffling of boundaries
through movement of population within the States,
particularly in metropolitan areas.
At the election last May most country
electorates showed very little difference in numbers
enrolled as compared with the 1949 poll, but in
the‘capitals there was a uniform pattern of move-
ment from inner to outer suburbs. This was
brought about by the increasing industrialisation
of inner areas and vast home-building programmes
further out. Of 28 Sydney metropolitan seats 15
have an enrolment lower than the average for all
Federal seats, which is about 42,000. West Sydney
has only 33,000; Cook, 35,000; East Sydney, Phillip,
Kingsford-Smith, Dailey, Parkes and Grayndler
each 36,000. In contrast, some of the 13 above-
average seats have swollen towards bursting-point;
Mackellar and Robertson each muster 50,000;
Mitchell, 51,000; Reid, 55,000; Banks, 59,000;
Werriwa, 63,000.
In other capitals the picture is similar. Mel-
bourne’s smallest electorates are Hoddle, 33,000;
Melbourne, 34,000; Melbourne Ports, 35,000. Its
biggest are Deakin, 60,000, and Latrobe, 65,000. In
Brisbane the range is from 32,000 to 58,000; in
Adelaide 35,000 to 60,000; in Perth 32,000 to
56,000. Even in Tasmania, granted by the Consti-
tution the minimum of five seats and still on a
population basis entitled to no more, there is
considerable disparity between highest and lowest
enrolments.
During the next few months three electoral
commissioners in each State will work on the job
of determining the new boundaries. They will take
evidence on population-changes and prepare maps
of proposed new electorates for submission to the
Government, sitting members, political parties and
others interested, who will probably be given a
month in which to voice objections and suggest
alterations. Provided the commissioners have done
their job properly only minor alterations will be
necessary. There will be no question of putting in
a boundary-loop to lasso a bunch of “our” voters
from an adjoining electorate or of inserting a
re-entrant angle to exclude a pocket of “theirs.”


THE DEMON BOWLER


PLAIN ENGLISH
New Guinea and the Islands
A sound resolution for the New Year
should be one to forward the aim of the
incorporation of New Guinea and the
Solomons and British New Hebrides into
Australian territory.
It is a matter which grows more
urgent every year from a defensive view-
point, apart from the question of develop-
ment. It is becoming clear that Australia
must look to these islands very soon for
products which now come from Asia and
other tropical countries. It is clear also
that the education of the natives and
settlement in New Guinea are proceeding
not according to Australian interests and
conceptions of security, but according
to the “ideals” of the United Nations,
whose meddling committees have the
right to oversee New Guinea’s policy and
administration. . .
At present much of the policy is infil-
trated with a saccharine sentimentality
and with the flavor given to world
opinion of the “colonial” and “native
questions by Russian and fellow-travel-
ler propagandists. Anthropologists teem.
The natives are being taught an exagger-
ated view of their own importance in the
scheme of things and infused with a con-
viction of their right, even while at an im-
mature stage of civilisation, to self-deter-
mination as races separate from, and
antagonistic in some senses to, the whites.
Public views are formed for them by
half-baked bureaucrat scientists, often
young ladies who delight to dally with
totemism and the social life of villages,
and their theories, relayed through the
universities and the soft-shell press, infect
Administration policies.
The fact is that it will be half a century
before the New Guinea and Solomon
Island native —in the Solomons the policy
is more robust—can be trusted to have
the share in public administration and
legislation which he already has been
granted under “trustee” government. And
it is doubtful whether he is not being
educated along lines which gradually
destroy any sympathy he has with this
country. He is being taught by the Exter-
nal Affairs Department that this zone,
for instance, is part of South-East Asia,
and he may come to believe it.
It would be very much better if he
were taught firmly that he is an Aus-
tralian who should be proud to share
the Australain tradition and that he must
look southward and not to Asia or to
U.N.O. headquarters for his source of
culture and security.
Especially with the development of the
guided-missile, which can reach our
cities from the fringe of islands round
the east and north coasts, it becomes
imperative that Australia should have
full control of their defence, unfet-
tered power to exclude any nationals
from the islands, and to deal with the
spy and the saboteur, who now has special
advantages through U.N.0., in whose
name espionage can operate openly.
The Solomons are British, but they are
a natural appanage of Australia, and
would be better administered by the
Commonwealth. It seems to be a matter
on which Mr. Menzies might well have
some preliminary discussions when he
goes to England this month.
Capitalism and Labor
The Australian “Labor” party not only
creaks; it has gone rusty, particularly in
the parts where it used to keep its brains.
Maybe the brains are still there, and
capable of working, j If so they’re being
drowned in the sludge and numbed in
the rattling from the other parts.
It is extremely unlikely that “Labor” has
yet caught a gleam of the great truth which
has been confronting it ever since the
war —the truth that, whereas Capitalism
has learned its lesson, “Labor” has not.
What Capitalism has learned, and is
using both to its own benefit and that of
the workers, is that a country’s economic
fate rests on a partnership between
employer and employee. Thus the boss
has learned, among other things, to spare
the physical strength of his workers by
using efficient machinery, up-to-date
process systems, smoother production
routines, shrewd -advertising and modern
distribution. These things, helped by
others, assist him to pay good wages and
provide good working conditions so his
workers may give him good service. True,
there is still plenty of room for improve-
ment, but, taken generally in this country,
Capitalism’s outlook in this matter is
away ahead of “Labor’s.”
Whatever individual prejudices may be,
and however tolerant the view taken, it
is impossible to discover in “Labor”
policy any practical expression of part-
nership between worker and employer.
In the early years of the century union-
leaders and Labor politicians held the
boss up as a bogy to be reduced by fair
means or foul. If foul means were ques-
tioned, the answer was that the boss was
foul, anyway, and would stoop to any
foulness to keep the worker down.
It may have been partly true forty
years ago, though it can be said that never
in Australia’s history has the employee
been as badly treated as he was, and often
still is, overseas.
The point is, however, that it isn’t true
now. Not only because the employer has
learned that good wages and working con-
ditions keep his workers happy and his
production high, but because the national
laws provide a set standard of wages and
conditions and he is dashed well forced
to obey them.
The A.L.P. frequently claims all the
credit for improved wages and conditions.
So do its representatives in Parliament.
If that be true, having got the boss where
they want him, having elevated workers
to this happy position, “Labor” keeps on
holding up the boss as a bogy still to be
reduced by fair means or foul. And
whether he be private individual or com-
pany, or Government enterprise paid for
out of the workers’ taxes, he must be got
at somehow. If we can’t get more money
out of him, boys, we’ll close his factory
or stop his trams ; or we’ll do it anyway,
just to show him.
Any “Labor” man who publicly
advocated that, having imposed duties
and responsibilities on employers, em-
ployees must accept duties and responsi-
bilities (such as doing a fair day’s work)
would have the party watchdogs on his
tail at once. Some of them have tried it
—seldom more than once.
Not to make more of it, it is clear that
Australia, facing 1955 with a vast new
manufacturing industry developing
rapidly, with natural advantages that
stagger visitors from overseas, with a
virile and forward-looking people, and
free of real class-divisions, with the rest
of this century wide open for expansion
and development, finds something
dragging—something on its back.
It is not, as so many believe, a hatred
of work, for nobody can work like an
Australian if he’s left to it. Nor is it a
national obsession with booze and betting,
for, Australians compare very favorably
with their American exemplars in both.
It is not a lot of other things.
It is simply that “Labor,” both politic-
ally and industrially, has refused to accept
what may be termed its own victory. It
hasn’t the gumption to stop jumping on
the corpse of what it set out to destroy
and get busy learning to exploit the new
opportunities and teaching the workers
that now they’ve got the prize, now
they’ve forced Capitalism into demanding
a partnership wtih them, the quicker they
accept the partnership the better.
Whether this up-and-coming country
will keep on carrying these surly old-
timers on its back will have to be decided
very soon.
Fair Exchange
Admiral McGrrrrr retires from the
Maritime Services Board next month.
While wishing the old seahorse a long and
happy retirement, The Bulletin
expresses the hope that in choosing his
successor the Cahill Government will
select someone who has already acquired
his nautical experience and doesn’t have
to imbibe it on the job by sitting at an
upstairs,window of the Maritime Services
Building watching the Manly ferries com-
ing into Circular Quay. This, of course,
would exclude Cahill himself and most
of his colleagues—a purely incidental
effect, but nonetheless to be applauded.
The appointment of a man who knew
something about the sea would, it is
admitted, be a distinct departure from
the traditional policy of the Cahills, but,
after all, this is 1955. Appointments in
the old tradition include former Prices
Minister and electorally rejected F. J.
Finnan to the chairmanship of the
Hunter River Water Board; A.L.P.-boss
J. A. Ferguson to the chairmanship of the
Milk Board; former Deputy-Premier
Baddeley as Director of State Coal
Mines; Trades Hall secretary J. Shortell
to a seat on the Maritime Services Board.
Not quite in the same class, but redolent
of the same spirit, was the recent choice
of Cahill’s private secretary C. T. Tallen-
tire as Director of State Lotteries.
At about the same, time as the Mc-
Grrrrr retirement, another member of
the board, Captain F. Murchison, is also
due to retire, so that two positions will
need to be filled. According to press
reports, two men with considerable mari-
time experience have expressed willing-
ness to make it available to the board.
They are Rear-Admiral H. A. Showers,
Flag-oflicer-in-Charge, East Australia
area, who is due to retire from the Royal
Australian Navy next month, and Cap-
tain D. Mcßae, harbormaster in Syd-
ney. It has been raised as an objection
to the appointment of both these men
that it would upset the balance of the
board by giving it a preponderance of
nautical members. It is hard to see the
reasoning behind this. Surely it would
merely preserve the status quo —a captain
for a captain and an admiral for an
admiral!
Catching-up in Defence
One of the most dangerous factors in
security, as well as one of the most
marked evidences of the eagerness for
peace among Western nations, is the
sensitiveness with which Governments
react to the Kremlin attitude.
The mild, delusive twilight which has
reigned since Malenkov took office has
increased the relative strength of Russia
tremendously at no cost to the U.S.S.R.
The Malenkov attitude affected both the
readiness of the Allies to compromise in
Korea and the willingness of the non-
Communist nations to accept the
dangerous agreement which allowed the
Communists to move southward in Indo-
china.
It has so far modified the American
outlook during the past year that there
has been a consistent weakening of U.S.
forces in all crucial zones —withdrawals
from Japan and Korea, some slowing-up
in Europe. Partly this may have been
due to the fact that the initial measures
were improvised and temporary —make-
shifts to see defence through until the
new techniques had been perfected and
applied to weaponry in bulk. But still,
very largely, they have been the result of
an easing of tension which never should
have been relaxed. The latest result,
viewed with alarm in Western Europe,
where it has no doubt profoundly helped
the opponents of German rearmament in
the French National Assembly, has been
the decision taken by President Eisen-
hower during December to reduce the
planned U.S. active establishment within
the next 18 months by 400,000 men. The
Secretary of Defence, Mr. Wilson, fully
supported this move. But it has created
sufficient adverse comment to cause Mr.
Dulles to try to justify it.
His explanation, after conferring with
the Nato command in Europe, is that
though the command is unanimous that
the Russian menace is as serious as ever
—or perhaps growing more serious, since
the time is running out during which it
is possible for the U.S.S.R. to keep huge
aggressively armed forces in being with-
out using them —the rapid evolution of
tactical atomic weapons capable of
defending western Europe justifies the
reduction in manpower.
Orthodox military thinkers cannot yet
see the full force of this representation.
It is being asked why, if the position is
as represented, it is necessary to raise
German divisions as a vital need of the
North Atlantic Alliance. And modernisa-
tion is certainly a trend which is not
showing itself in Australian military
organisation, which is proceeding very
much along lines applicable to a conflict
of the type of World War 11. It is, of
course, not fair to criticise this
approach at this stage.
Military innovation in Australia is
always delayed, but usually to the
advantage of the country in that it is
apt to get the latest developments in a
time of urgency. At the same time
there is room for a thorough and con-
tinuous Parliamentary vigilance to see
that methods, particularly of localised
defence, do not fall so far behind that
industrial centres, on which the per-
manent features of security in a war
depend, are wide open to early destruc-
tion.
In the United States, for instance,
a programme is well in being to defend
all large cities with radar-guided Nike
missiles which are said to be mortal to
any kind of air attack when fitted with
suitable war-heads.
What, apart from experimental work
with guided missiles at the Rocket Range,
is being done in Australia along the same
lines?
Strikes and Contracts
When the Constitution and the law are
amended to place Federal Arbitration on
a rational basis, the reformers might do
well to go to Sweden for a little inspira-
tion as to how to deal with Communist
sabotage by union-leaders of the type
who make life and reward so chancy for
companies in shipping and other major
industries.
Recently dock-workers in Sweden,
part of the world-wide network of Com-
munist-run or Communist-influenced
transport bodies, staged a strike of the
familiar kind, which came suddenly upon
the ports, immobilising some of them
for six hours and some for six days.
There wgre 2004 dockers involved, and
the owners sued for damages for breach
of an industrial agreement in the
industrial court at Gothenburg, which
consists of three impartial members and
two representatives each from the
employers and the unions.
The union characteristically sought to
clog-up the court with evidence, but in
its stolid Swedish way it took the whole
1100-odd witnesses in its stride, and fined
2000-odd dockers £23,000 damages,
ranging in individual cases from £3 10s.
to £l4, according to the length of time
they had been on strike. The total prob-
ably did not compensate the employers
by any means, but it is certainly the kind
of action which is deterrent.
The Communists are the most ardent
advocates in Australia of the “sacred
right to strike,” which, when wantonly
applied for a seditious purpose, is as
much a right as the right to murder. And
it is about time that workers and their
unions were given a choice —either the
right to arbitrate and to have the shelter
which the law affords them and the
facility for negotiation which arbitration
systems provide, or the right to exercise
the law of the jungle at their own peril.
It is also time that an agreement at
law in the arbitration field became subject
to the same penalties for wanton breaches
and negligence in execution as ordinary
agreements —that is if it is not so already.
It might be worth the while of some
harassed industries which can produce
evidence of constructive industrial sabo-
tage to try an action at common law
against the promoters and perpetrators
of these outrages.
With evidence that the organisers are
Communists, with Communist instruc-
tions as to their procedure, methods and
objectives before a jury, the results might
be salutary.
Towards Convertibility
“In the ACT”: When the Prime
Ministers of the British Commonwealth
gather in London at the end of this
month their old friend, the problem of
convertibility of sterling, will still be with
them. The last year saw several steps
towards the objective of complete con-
vertibility, including extension of the
area in which sterling is used in inter-
national trade, the reopening of the
London gold-market and the Liverpool
cotton-futures market, and the relaxing of
import-licensing in Britain and Australia.
There have been semi-official hints
that complete convertibility must await
the emergence of an international balance
of payments in which the non-dollar
world will show equilibrium with the
U.S., without the aid of American
economic or military assistance or similar
temporary factors. The figures to be
placed before the Prime Ministers have
not been disclosed, but the U.K. Treasury
recently announced that Britain’s own
deficit on current account, excluding
defence aid, with the dollar area has
dwindled to almost nothing.
British exports to the U.S. and Canada
have fallen rather disappointingly, but
imports have fallen more. Sterling-area
gold-sales in the U.K. are now much
larger than previously, and in the whole
sterling area s transactions with the non-
dollar world gold and dollars are actually
being gained instead of lost as previously.
The sterling area, in fact, has been run-
ning a surplus instead of a deficit with
the European Payments Union, making
the general appearance of the gold and
dollar accounts much healthier.
Mr. Menzies has not said whether he
is going to the conference with any pre-
determined policy on sterling in his brief-
case. He would probably say, if
questioned, that he will wait to see what
the position is when the conference
meets. He will certainly find it much
better than when he was last in London,
and he will be briefed on the likely short-
term and long-term effects on Australian
primary and’secondary industries if any
change is announced in the near future.
The trends are obvious, but the dates
and extent of any alterations are still
uncertain.


POLITICAL POINTS
Controversy is raging in the Sydney
press as to whether admission to high-
schools should be by intelligence-test or
examination. Candidates for Parliament
get in without either.
• •
Just before the N. S. Wales election in
1950 Premier McGrrrrr said his Govern-
ment intended to complete the Maryvale-
Sandy Hollow railway, begun in 1936.
Three years later, in the course of
another election - campaign, Premier
Cahill told a meeting at Mudgee that he
had inspected the line (or what there was
of it) and was “very worried.” He said,
“This work must go on to completion.”
Two more years have passed. The work
has not gone on to completion and all
the talk now indicates that it never will.
Still, there’s another election looming-up,
so at least there should be another
promise.
• •
On Monday a start will be made on
moving the town of Tallangatta (Vic.) to
a new site five miles from its present
location, which will be flooded when the
extensions to the Hume Dam are com-
pleted.
. • •
A meeting of the central executive of
the Queensland A.L.P. tomorrow should
decide which faction will present the
branch’s viewpoint at the Federal con-
ference on March 14. J. M. Schmella,
secretary of the executive and one of
the Queensland delegates to the Federal
executive, is a strong anti-grouper;
tomorrow’s meeting is to determine
whether he still retains the confidence of
the Q.C.E.
® •
Ever the perfect diplomat, Calwell
burst into print to say that Australia
should demand an invitation to the Afro-
Asian conference. In the unlikely event
of the demand being made and of a gilt-
edged invitation-card arriving in Can-
berra, Calwell is the obvious pick as
goodwill delegate. This would give him
the opportunity to repeat his tactful
remark about black, brown and brindle
and his brilliant, if slightly shop-soiled,
epigram about two Wongs not making a
white. As an encore he could remind the
gathering of his great work for Aus-
tralian-Asian friendship in his treatment
of Mrs. O’Keefe and Sergeant Gamboa.
• •
Reginald Rudall, Playford’s Attorney-
General, dead in Adelaide at 69, had
held that post since 1946 ; before that he
had been Minister for Lands, Repatria-
tion, Irrigation and Education. A First
War Digger, he was South Australian
Rhodes Scholar in 1908 and the many
public positions he held included mem-
bership of the Rhodes Scholar Selection
Committee. Rudall was 21 years in Par-
liament —M*H.A. for Barossa 1933-38,
M.H.A. for Angas 1938-44, M.L.C. for
Midland District since 1944.
• •
Most of the blocks cut out of the
65,000 acres resumed for soldier-settle-
ment in the Cobram-Echuca sector of the
Murray Valley have now been allocated ;
422 dairy-holdings and 60 fruit-blocks are
occupied, and four factories are produc-
ing butter and cheese from milk from
the area. All blocks are irrigated.
• •
Pity the unwilling peer! Anthony
Wedgwood Benn, Labor member for
Bristol in the British Parliament and heir
to his father’s title, Viscount Stansgate,
doesn’t want to take the handle as it will
cost him his seat in the Commons. He
is petitioning the House of Lords for
permission to introduce a personal bill
renouncing his right to inherit the title.
He might bring it off ; but when Quinton
Hogg, who stepped into his father’s shoes
as Lord Hailsham in 1950, tried something
similar, he was unable to avoid his fate.
The present Viscount Stansgate, for-
merly William Wedgwood Benn, was a
Liberal M.P. from 1906, until he joined
the Labor party in 1927. As a Labor man
he continued in the Commons until 1941,
held several portfolios, including Secre-
tary of State for India (1929-31) and Air
(1945-46). He’s all in favor of his son’s
move, but it seems rather late in the day
for thinking of it. The more appropriate
time would have been 1941, when he
accepted the title.
• •
India is moving closer towards becom-
ing a Socialist State. The Imperial Bank
of India and several smaller banks are
to be taken over and amalgamated to
form the State Bank of India. At the
same time it is proposed to amend the
Constitution to restrict the right to chal-
lenge nationalisation in the courts. The
thought of this should make the mouths
of Australian Socialists water.
• •
Funny how sections of the Press make
headlines of anything likely to discredit
the Menzies Government. Yet there
were no headlines for the fact that 1954
was a record coal-production year.
When Menzies came to power in 1949
all Australia was suffering blackouts,
hold-ups and unemployment for want of
coal.
• •
In the Victorian Assembly Liberal
member Rylah was arguing that legisla-
tion providing for the adoption of
SOCIALISTIC MASTERPIECE
(After 15 years of war-time and post-war price-control and implementation of the Welfare
State, Australian prices have established a level about three times higher than in 1939.)
“It seems an awful lot bigger than what I had in mind at the beginning.”
children should be considered from the
point of view, of the thousands of cases
that go right, not from that of the isolated
cases that go wrong. Chief Secretary
Galvin interjected with a reference to the
Murray case and the Hamilton case.
Mr. Rylah: That is still only two cases
out of thousands We know of only one
case of a member of Parliament who is
alleged to have represented himself to
certain business concerns in order to obtain
credit, but I do not think the Chief Secre-
tary would agree that legislation should
be passed to provide that all members of
Parliament should be put under the “Dog
Act.”
• •
The old year closed with a warning to
Queensland wharfies that they were
“striking themselves out of work.” Strikes
and stop-works (if there’s any distinction)
cost the State’s ports 600,000 man-hours,
setting back nearly 400,000 tons of cargo.
With the roads now open to inter-State
haulage and the railways forced as a
result to go after business by offering
reduced freights and faster delivery, it
isn’t hard to see which way a lot of cargo
will go if the wharfies don’t watch out.
• . •
Londoners a few years hence may
begin to miss their killing winter fogs. A
special committee has proposed measures
aimed at reducing smoke by four-
fifths in from 10 to 15 years, with heavy
penalties for offenders and with financial
aid to householders for the replacement
of old-fashioned heating-appliances by
modern equipment. The committee says
that air-pollution on the scale familiar in
Britain “is a social and economic evil
which should no longer be tolerated.”
Sydney’s smoke-problem does not
approach the seriousness of London’s, but
it is getting to the stage where it cannot
be ignored much longer.
Queensland’s Beer and Betting Bills
passed all stages before the Assembly
adjourned for Christmas and also
received the Royal Assent, but they
have not yet been proclaimed. A
“Courier-Mail” reporter tips that s.-p.
bookies at the South Coast pleasure-
resorts will move their headquarters
across the border to Tweed Heads to
avoid trouble.
• •
According to Nehru’s sister the
Indian Prime Minister “brooks no criti-
cism and will not even suffer advice
gladly.” Still, he’s always glad enough to
give it.
• •
Another “Labor” M.H.R. is getting
morally rearmed. He is ex-parson Gil
Duthie, member for Wilmot (Tas.) since
1946, who is attending the M.R.A. world
conference in Washington. The party will
be watching Duthie with some anxiety
and wondering whether he’ll come back
with his conscience showing, as Kim
Beazley did from a similar trip.
• •
U.S. Secretary for Agriculture Benson
believes farm incomes in 1955 will recover
—and at least hold 1954 levels. In addi-
tion, he says, atomic aids may cause
deserts to bloom, speed-up plant-growth
and change the cycle of marketing. Won’t
all the" Australian marketing-board
officials have a high old time with that
last bit of prophecy?
• •
“Moresby”: In December Administra-
tor Cleland announced that 56 Papuan
natives had been awarded the Loyal Ser-
vice Medal: recipients had given at least
25 years’ unblemished and loyal service to
the Administration, or had rendered out-
standing service to the Administration or
in the interests of the native people. Two
of the latter were women. The citations
of these interpreters, advisers, instructors,
clerks and others were an effective token
of the manner in which Australia is aiding
the natives to fit themselves for an in-
creasing degree of self-government.
Typical of the citations was that of Nepu-
Teau-Veata, a nursing assistant of Pinu-
paka village, Roro:
Nepu joined the Administration in Janu-
ary, 1926, and his early years were spent
on patrol in every district of Papua. In
1932 he was posted to Kairuku, and carried
out his duties through the whole of the
subr-district and into the Goilala. He con-
tinued with his medical work throughout
the war, attended a training school during
1944, and returned to Kairuku. His standard
of work and conduct is high at all times,
and he is very well regarded by those with
whom he has contact.
• •
“X.S.”: The aim of S. H. Porter, former
A.I.F. major-general, later staff-manager
for the Myer Emporium and now Mel-
bourne’s Police Chief, is to put his cops
on view everywhere “because the preserva-
tion of law and order depends largely on
the number of police seen in the streets
and on the roads.” That’s true enough,
but it also depends on how wide they
keep their eyes open. There is a major-
stop sign right in front of the Russell-
street headquarters and upwards of 500
Johns near by, but if anybody wants to
see the law broken twenty times in
twenty seconds he needs only to stand
at the intersection and count the number
of cars, police vehicles included, which
break the regulation.
• •
On Friday the N. S. Wales Industrial
Commission gave judgment on an appli-
cation by 70 State unions, supported by
the N. S. Wales Government, for a mar-
ginal adjustment on the basis of the
Federal court’s ruling in the metal-trades
judgment. The Full Bench found no
warrant in that judgment for a “general
or all-round uplift in the State award
rates”; it said many State awards had
been reviewed more than once since 1947.
The application of each union will be
considered on its merits.
• •
“In the ACT”: Wentworth, M.P., is
advocating another permanent Antarctic
base to the east of Adelie Land, which
could have its own coal-supplies from
rich seams in the vicinity. He suggests
a site slightly inland to avoid coastal
winds, and serviced by aircraft from Aus-
tralia. Rock exposed above the ice, he
says, would provide a fruitful field for
geological investigation, and the fact that
Australia would then have bases in each
of its sectors would strengthen its legal
claims to the territories.
• •
A by-election in Higinbotham Pro-
vince in the Victorian Legislative
Council, to fill the vacancy caused by
the death of Sir James Kennedy, will be
held on January 29. High-school teacher
L. H. S. Thompson is the L.C.P. candi-
date, chosen from a field of 19 ; A. E.
O’Connor is “Labor’s” choice and J. A.
Mackie will stand as a Hollway Lib.
• • -
According to the International Air
Transport Association 1954 was the first
year in which more people travelled
across the oceans of the world by air
than by ship. International air-liners car-
ried 58 million people during the year.
•. •
Crude-oil production in the “free
world” increased by 221 million barrels
in 1954, to a total 0f4968 million, says the
American Petroleum Institute president.
Still, we must admit that we wouldn’t have
needed it if the Russians hadn’t invented
roads, carburettors, rear-lights, or the
rest of the paraphernalia of motor-
transport.
• •
C. G. McCathie becomes Queensland
Minister for Mines in succession to the
late E. J. Riordan. In caucus-ballot he
polled 37 votes ; Dr. Dittmar, 11.
• •
“Actin’’: Steep rises in prospect for
Federal public servants are causing the
Government concern, and it is reported
in Canberra that this week’s Cabinet meet-
ing in Melbourne will consider both their
effects on the Budget and on the economy
generally. Risks of inflation are apparent
in current wage- and salary-trends, and
several Canberra public-servants are
reported to be putting low deposits on
as many cars as possible with the dual
object of paying them off out of salary-
increases and of reaping a profit when
prices increase under inflationary
pressure.
• 0
By next winter Melbourne’s gas-supply
will be augmented by oil-refinery gas
from the new Vacuum plant at Altona;
a pipeline which will take the gas 8|
miles to the gasworks at West Melbourne
should be completed next month. By
the end of 1956 most of the city’s gas will
consist of a mixture of refinery-gas and
brown-coal gas from Morwell.
e o
The Road Safety Council should ask
the Commonwealth Government to
inform Commonwealth drivers —
especially those racing home from work
—that they definitely have not the same
privileges on the roads as fire-brigades,
police-cars and ambulances.
0 0
Soustralia’s Leigh Creek coalmine sold
455,510 tons of coal last year, giving it its
third successive surplus after the initial
period of struggle. The mine supplied
more than half the fuel used during the
year at Osborne power-station, from
which Adelaide draws most of its
electricity.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
l
YjWE had listened to a Sunday afternoon
of music. The quartet of enthusi-
astic amateur musicians had played
Bach, Brahms, Beethoven and Schubert,
and the evening was approaching. It
was seven-thirty and we had had no
dinner, and I said to our host, who
played the ’cello, “Well, Franz, I’m
afraid we must go now.” He looked
disappointed, but showed us out to our
car. Feeling faint with hunger and need-
ing some stimulus to face the perils of
the home-going Sunday traffic, I said
“What about one for the road, Franz?”
Franz’s face beamed with pleasure. “By
all means—come inside,” he said. And
we all went in and sat down and listened
to a fifth quartet which lasted 40
minutes. —“Pawang.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Piper”: The saddest last-minute
Christmas-shopping story concerns a
woman who discovered a couple of days
before the festivity that she needed about
two-dozen more cards than she’d bought,
and, if they were to catch the last mail
delivery, she had to get them in a hurry.
Her local newsagent had almost sold out
his stock, but she selected a couple of
boxes of cards of the plain and tasteful
variety she preferred and, without bother-
ing to more than notice that they had
“Christmas Greetings” printed on the
front, filled in the cards and posted off
18. Then she took time to read the
inscription inside the two remaining bits
of pasteboard and found to her horror
that the legend 18 of her acquaintances
would receive went:
This little card is ju&t to say
A tiny gift is on the way.
"What I was going to ring you about has gone clean out of my mind.”
“Melbn”: The last stronghold of the
free male in Melbourne fell when a
woman dived nonchalantly into the water
at the Middle Park baths, a sanctuary for
the nude male for fifty years. A knight, a
couple of M.P.s and a number of busi-
nessmen who have sequestered there for
many years watched her sullenly, then
went into their cubicles and exchanged
the towels round their waists for trunks.
South Melbourne Council had decided
that women should be allowed to swim in
the baths and had erected a notice:
“Nude persons must not bathe, lie or
loiter shore side of this board.” Visitors
to the Olympic Games from Sweden will
be discommoded.
“Hallcraft”: One of the world’s most
unusual trade-unions is in course of for-
mation in Melbourne. Race-broadcasters
met to discuss a union to “protect their
rights, standardise race-broadcasting con-
ditions, set fees for course-descriptions
and country meetings and generally
benefit both broadcasters and racing
clubs.” It will not be called a union: it
will be known as the Racing Commen-
tators’ Association of Victoria. I reckon
their best protection would have been to
take out insurance-policies on their
voices: even leather wears out in time!
❖ ❖
“Bo”: The Davis Cup Challenge
Round was remarkable not only for the
fact that no player cast himself down ,on
the sward and sobbed on being foot-
faulted, but that the gaiety of nations
was not enlivened by the scribes. My
fondest memory of their efforts was in a
previous Davis Cup match in Sydney,
when one of them gave high praise to a
player for his “cleverly concealed lobs.”
As an old ball-boy’s laborer I have always
been under the impression that the only
way one could conceal a lob would be to
use the stroke when there was a cloud-
ceiling of about 30ft. As on the day in
question there was only light cumulus at
about 7000 ft., which is slightly higher
than the altitude usually achieved by a
tennis-player, I have been puzzled by the
description. But perhaps I’m even duller
than I thought.
❖ *X*
“M.1.G.”: Best piece of Christmas
cheer to date, for me, was finding Douglas
Stewart’s Fire on the Snow among a pile
of books my son had brought home
from school, ostensibly to study over the
holidays, in preparation for next year’s
Leaving Certificate. There are always
those who declare that studying for exams
has turned them off classics for life. But
how many of these can honestly say that
they didn’t, after all, enjoy them? I’m
all for setting good books for examina-
tions, and if the good book happens to
be a contemporary Australian’s work, all
the better.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Mississee” (Japan): “I, Paul Hossen-
lopp, of French nationality, bom
in Shanghai, intend to apply for
naturalisation.. .” read the notice in
a • , U^ ETIN T of some time a B° (date
mislaid) I wonder how many
old Melbourmtes recognised in Paul
the son of Marcel Hossenlopp who ran
Ihe Vienna m Little Collins-street so long
ago. Too young to go there and enjoy
its imagined goings-on (“Do you know
f“? y , s ?!^ et ‘ l u es da nce on the tables?’
• °° + ? h ’A’ ,!• later enj °y ed tea and cakes
m the Collins-street cafe of the same
na me . In the early ’thirties and living in
Shanghai I saw Marcel himself in
Marcel s, the cafe he ran there, and “the
place was mine because I spoke of The
"Uranium, b-r-r-rr! Let me know when you find some plum-pudding."
Vienna and his lovely Austrian wife (then
dead). Later he lost a leg by poison from
a fishbone puncture, but he carried on
with the help of his pretty Russian
second-wife and a reliable Chinese staff
until in the ups and downs of Shanghai
he was driven out of business. He died
before 1941. Paul came out with the
many who were anti-Communist, and so
the wheel of time found him where his
father had prospered before W.W.I.
“Woodenit”: When you have reached
the top rung of the ladder, when there is
no higher position to which to aspire
within your profession, then you can
relax and let appearances go. A public
servant in this happy situation gave a
Christmas party for members of his staff
and their families. The guests arrived in
their Sunday best, perspiring under coats,
collars and ties, to be greeted by a host
perfectly at ease in an unpressed,
unbuttoned sports shirt which he had
inadvertently put on wrong-side-out. No
offence meant; the party was a great
success.
❖ ♦+♦
“Mac Hoots”: What a terrible thing it
is to return after six months abroad and
find that your radio, which was perfectly
happy when you locked it away in the
spare room, won’t go. For the benefit of
those whose technical and mechanical
ability equals my own, I release the result
of two months’ researches into the set’s
horrible, wiry interior. As well as the
switch which switches-on at the plug in
the wall, -there is a switch on the set —
lurking rather unfairly round the corner.
When you find this one, and switch both
switches on, the set goes. Thus there is
no need, after all, to take the confounded
thing into the radio-shop.
ijt
“Jez”: A collector was calling upon
our town’s residents for donations to the
newly established ambulance-centre. Mrs.
Tight kept him on her doorstep in the
sun while she fired many questions ; then
told him to call back later. Next day
she informed him she had discussed his
request with her taxi-driver husband and
they had decided not to give, on prin-
ciple, as an ambulance-centre would take
customers from them.
“Fair Mac”: The cleaners were busy
after the matinee at our picture-house
when a schoolboy sneaked in and began
casting around in the front stalls, To an
inquiry he mumbled that he’d “lost
somethink,” and kept searching. His
sister came in, asked an anxious question
and receiving a short shake of the head
joined in the search. “But what was it
you lost?” pursued the cleaner. The bov
obviously didn’t want to say; he kept his
head down lower than the seats and went
on looking. A man hurried down the
aisle. One question ; then he, too, began
to cast to and fro like a beagle-hound
He it was who made the find. The lad
accepted it with unsmiling pleasure wiped
it on his pants and shoved it in his mouth
A couple of Christmases ago a popular
song said: “All I want for Christmas is
my two front teeth." The kid in the
picture-show must have had a premature
visit from Santa —and came very near
to wanting another.
* * *
“Eve”: Down Sydney’s Oxford-street,
where‘the big fire was, a black cat has
had its habitat in the remains of what
was a shoe-store window. Evidently some
good-hearted people worried about it,
despite its obvious outlet through the rear
of the window; anyway, this notice was
pasted on the part of the window where
Puss usually likes to sit: “This little pussy
is fed and has milk daily. Also will have
a Xmas dinner .” Attached to the notice
a signed R.S.P.C.A. sticker, no doubt
ensuring for some Oxford-street shoppers
a happier Christmas.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cyda”: Returning in the Stratheden
late in ’53 we had half a day to kill at
Adelaide. For exercise I walked along the
foreshore, until, suitably tired, I arrived
at a level-crossing, alongside of which
was a tiny railway-station named Draper.
A very ancient engine clanked up to the
crossing and stopped. A venerable guard
descended from a guard’s-van which com-
pleted the “train” and held a red flag
aloft while the “train” crossed the road,
whereupon the guard ascended to his
solitary grandeur, and the whole outfit
clanked away. “Fifty years out of date,”
I thought, but I’m not so sure now. On
v the evening of Dec. 17, 1954, a crowded
workmen’s train crashed into a passenger-
bus at this crossing, killing five people,
and, among other damage, smashing the
little ticket-office where I eventually
bought a ticket back to Outer Harbor
and modern ocean transport.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: A tourist highlight in
North Queensland is Paronella Park,
near Innisfail, the work of a Spanish
migrant. In the 13 acres stands a replica
of a Spanish castle, built entirely with his
own labor of local timber and stone.
Jose Paronella also planted thousands of
trees, hewed walks, made paths and
bridges, and tunnelled 240 ft. to a water-
fall. The castle includes a ballroom and
picture-show, and power is supplied by
a small hydroelectric plant on Mena
Creek. Cost of the project over a period
is estimated at £30,000. In 1946 the
buildings withstood the worst flood in
the district’s history. Paronella died in
1948.
“SOME FELL ON STONY
GROUND”
I guess I’m one of those who don’t
Show much responsibility
When listening as is my wont
To newscasts from the A.8.C.;
They open on a proper plane
For minds not only half-employed,
But wandering vaguely through my brain
Goes Doktor Konrad Adenoid.
He bows, parades and genuflects,
A wordy princeling of romance,
And wonders, with his best respects,
Will Cinderella Mendis-Pants ?
Meanwhile 1 want the latest score,
Or who has landed what big double,
But Doktor Adenoid talks some more
On Mendis-Pants’s Chamber-trouble.
By fire, by shark, by cliff, by car,
By lightning people meet their doom;
I wait reports of who they are,
Or who with what has murdered
whom ;
But on the bland announcements go
As though to say “What’s that to you ?
You’d want to know U Nu, you know,
If you knew UNO knew U Nu.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“CjlX Songs by Australian Composers”
sounds very nice on an A.B.C. pro-
gramme, but why don’t these musicians
“Marvellous stuff, only four-and-eleven a yard—
before the War, of course."
put their tunes to Australian words?
There were settings of Tennyson’s “Break,
Break, Break” and Burns’s “My Love’s
Like a Red, Red Rose” and only one
Australian item, a lively rendering of
Paterson’s “Shift, Boys, Shift.”—“S.”
“Pat”: More apparent than ever at
Yuletide the fundamental changes in
family life and duties. A club put on a
7 p.m.-lO p.m. Christmas show for the
kids. Fathers organised the entertainment,
passed round refreshments, played Santa
Claus, ran films and stood guard over
their offspring’s wants and needs.
.Mothers clung round the bar, enjoying
their beers and cigarettes.
■4+
“Blue P.”: “S. M. Herald” turned one
of its lyrical writers on to a third leader
to celebrate the Test-match in Sydney just
before Christmas. He remarked that
“It is nice to see that old cliche, the
‘unpredictability of cricket,’ refreshed by
the constant fluctuation of fortune in
this memorable encounter.” Apart from
the second and third cliches in that
sentence, the quoted one should have read
“the glorious uncertainty of cricket.” So
he can congratulate himself on coining a
new cliche.
<<■
“Nunk”: The new office-boy who
didn’t know his firm’s name (B. 22/12 / ’54)
hardly amused me. On my first day in a
Sydney warehouse in 1924, aged 16, when
I was told to ring someone up, I had to
ask them how to use the telephone.
*£♦ +J+
“Simon”: To a recent listing of former
Australian students taking oh regular
jobs while getting through their studies
can be added a New South Wales example
just through with honors. While at high
school he did three months behind the
counter of a store. His next job was
driving a tractor, after that a job in the
Kanimbla Valley. Then he was general
laborer on a wfieatfarm, next on a poultry-
farm, then on a dairyfarm at Robert-
son, afterwards cutting cabbages at the
same place, then packing fruit at Leeton.
After a turn as builder’s-laborer he spent
three months on the Snowy River
scheme.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: The country post-office
customer expressed his doubt about the
validity of a 10s. note received in change
and checked at the near-by bank, which
pronounced the currency defunct. The
P.O. official refused to make the note
good, stating that “regulations” were that
the customer had voided any claim when
he left the counter. Timely intervention
by the postmaster saved the official from
annihilation, and the note-value was
refunded. “Regulations-happy” would
seem to be the appropriate diagnosis of
this disease of some “civil servants.”
❖ ++♦ ❖
“Combo Waterhole”: Queensland is
watching with interest the experiment at
the little, inland township of Winton,
where one of the poshest pubs in Aus-
tralia, the North Gregory, of “Waltzing
Matilda” fame, is almost complete. Cost
to date is touching £200,000, and the
Local Authority, unable to finalise negoti-
ations for a lessee, has appointed a man-
ageress from Brisbane, with Government
consent. If the undertaking can be pro-
fitably run by the L.A. at Winton, it may
be only the first venture of this kind. If
it fails to pay, it may be the last. Almost
the full burden of building costs, 97
per cent., falls on graziers ; and, with no
tourist traffic, on them will fall the biggest
onus of patronage. Some are fully con-
fident of its success, but others think
dubiously of their recent rate-notices,
“Owing to rising costs, I'll have to divorce about forty of you."
where a blank space appears after the
words: Hotel Special Loan Rate.
* ❖ *
“X.S.”: A 76-year-old pensioner who
has published several books of poems was
lately discovered in Melbourne to have
had a total of 102 years’ imprisonment
recorded against him, of which he has
served 52 years at time of writing. His
offences ranged from shooting with in-
tent to murder to forgery and horse-
stealing. When he came before the
Bench for the umpteenth time the judge
didn’t say to him, as Louis XI said of
another poet: “I cannot afford to hang
Francois Villon. There are a hundred
thousand rogues in France as great as he,
but not such another poet”—he released
him on a £lO bond to be of good be-
havior for three years and abstain from
liquor.
❖ ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: On the wall of a Paddington
(Sydney) hairdressing-saloon is a glass-
case filled with shaving-mugs and
-brushes. Each bears a number. The
barber tells me they were the property
of his regulars back in the days when
particular customers each had his own
shaving-mug and -brush and paid a
weekly fee for the barber’s services.
There were hotels, too, at one time where
regular customers had their own private
tankards hanging in the bar.
♦ * *
“H.A.L.”: Similar to the lad who
hoped to inherit the family two-up school
(B. 8/12/’54) was the Adelaide schoolboy
who told the headmaster that his father
would “take him into the business” next
year. The master, scornful when told
that the “business” was a city news-stand,
met the father to persuade him to give the
boy a better chance in life. The father
produced vouchers for his last five
income-tax payments. The master, who
in those days earned £5OO a year, was
staggered to find that the news-vendor
earned four times as much as he did.
❖ * ❖
“Ceg”: She was about 20 and her name
must have been Shirl. She was in deep
conversation with her friend, who natur-
ally would have been Merle, behind the
cash-register. After permitting me to
wait long enough to debate whether I
should try the next shop, she sidled
across. Parking her chewing-gum in the
pouch of the right cheek, and directing
her gaze out of the window to avoid
the discomfort of looking at me, she
drawled out the Great Australian Ques-
tion: “Yeeaah?” I was after black olives
from South Australia, put up in tins.
Her vacant dial became blanker.
“Olives?” she said, “We ain’t got none
—I think.” Turning to Merle, she sought
confirmation of her hope. Then, it
appeared, they did sell olives, but whether
they were blue, black or brindle she
hadn’t a clue. A glass jar of fat Spanish
Queens was produced. I repeated that it
was a tin of black South Australian
olives that I craved. This necessitated
consultation with a man half a mile
further down the counter. Back she came,
and dragged forth a yellow, kerosene-size
tin, plastered with inscriptions in Italian:
but still the olives were large, green and
expensive. By this time, although full
of the milk of human kindness, I was
becoming testy. I suggested that the
olives she was handling were imported.
“That’s right,” she said; “Japanese, I
think.” 1 said that they appeared to be
of Italian origin. “Might be,” she con-
ceded. “I can’t read foreign writing.”
The interview then closed. A wages’
board rated her services at £7 ss. 6d. a
week.
♦ * *
“Melbn”: A girl graduate of Mel-
bourne University, doing a postgraduate
course in social studies in London, was
invited to visit the English Melbourne;
there she was received by the mayor,
and given a magnificent reception and a
dinner. She had brought along a bag of
Victorian tinned-foods just to show what
Australia could do in that line. At the
dinner a beautiful silver-chased tureen
was brought in by a lordly butler, and
she wondered what magnificent English
dish lay underneath the cover. When it
was lifted she saw one of her camp-pies.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Viper”: Scene: Ten-o’clock swill
(a.m. version, Saturday) in decrepit shed
our Bung calls his “Beergarden.” A lady
flits among us, soliciting. She’s old for the
job, immensely respectable: in fact, a
major in the Sallies. She offers her coin-
box, peers through steel-rim specs—
whispers: “New Slipper for the first.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pat”: With his three small children
and wife in the car, a good citizen drove
up to his bowling-club on a quiet Mon-
day evening to return three empty pres-
sure-kegs and four-dozen glasses. The
place looked deserted, but the good citi-
zen, anxious to discharge his duties, left
his family in the car and went to check
the door. He found it open, took a step
inside and —“Brrr . . went the burglar-
alarm. The G.C. rushed back to his
terrified family and announced that they
must wait for “the cops.” They waited
ten minutes, while the bell shrilled on.
No cops came, a few apathetic onlookers
gazed over their garden-fences, then
wandered inside to their dinners. His
children in tears, his wife demanding
speedy retreat to home, the G.C. marched
over to one lady character who, with her
five offspring jabbering excitedly beside
her, seemed rather more interested than
other residents. “What’s up?” demanded
the lady. “Just set off the burglar-alarm,”
explained G.C. “Oh, is that all?” said the
lady deflatedly. “I thought it must be
the ambulance for Mrs. Higgs this time,
for sure.”
❖ ❖ *
“Perks”: The Department of Taxation
received a typed income-tax return from
a bachelor who listed one dependent son.
The examiner returned the blank with a
pencilled note: “This must be a
stenographical error.” Presently the blank
came back with the added pencil-note,
“You’re telling me!”
MORE CONSIDERATION
WANTED
“A family-welfare expert says that when
parents have rows these should be in front of
the children, and not covered up. This would
help to bring the children closer to the parents
through understanding.”
If a remark you’ve made has drawn
some hisses,
And, flint-to-steel, you leap straight off
your bike,
Grinding your molars, savage at your
missus,
Rearing to hop into a ding-dong yike;
Desist, 1 beg— at least, until you gather
An audience; and what better could
you get
Than those who have acknowledged you
as father?
They’ll take a lively interest in the
slather-
And-whack, you bet!
Some, in the cut-and-thrust of verbal
sabres,
The bandying of home-truths scorch-
ing-hot,
Give buckshee entertainment to the
neighbors.
And yet the very ones whom they begot
Are often barred from sharing in such
pleasure ... .
Lack of consideration, it appears.
Why shouldn’t they enjoy, in fullest
measure,
A “blue” the memory of which they’d
treasure
In after years?
Besides, you’ll find you fight in greater
fettle
When there are keen-eyed critics look-
ing on;
Their presence tends to put you on your
mettle . . .
You might emerge as quite a paragon.
In any case, as soolers and inciters,
Kids simply can’t be bettered at the
price —
Themselves pretty experienced as fighters,
You may depend upon the little blighters
To give advice.
Think of the joyous peals of filial
laughter
That Father could evoke, too, in the
home
(Also applause for accuracy ) after
Mother had bounced the teapot off his
dome!
But why should the parental invitation
Limit the kids to come and have a look
A t their indulgence in fierce altercation ?
Why not some audience-participation,
A Donnybrook ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Captain F. Murchison berthed his
weather-signed Scots face in the N.S.W.
Maritime Services Board towards the
end of 1952: he takes it into dock for
retirement early in the New Year. As
well-known among seamen as Macquarie
Light, Murchison’s first salt was tasted
in a 600-ton barquentine-rigged yacht
trading to Norway ; first Australian land-
fall in a wool-clipper at the turn of the
century. Before taking to piloting in
Sydney, he skippered windjammers on the
Sydney-’Frisco run; he’s been piloting
for 23 years, and became Sydney’s
harbormaster in 1943. His last piloting
job, before anchoring in the Harbor-
Trust building, was the Queen Elizabeth
in War 11. His only son, pilot of cruiser
Canberra’s amphibious aircraft, went
with the ship off Savo Island.
• •
The lines of this rugged phiz, spell
“fighter”—etched there on the battlefields
of War I, and the football-fields and
streets of Sydney; street-fighting, let it
be known, in its noble form —armed with
an axe, a length of hose and capped by
a fireman’s helmet. Young Ted Griffiths
joined the N.S.W. Fire Brigade when 16
“because my mate was in it and I liked
horses.” Six years ago he became the
brigade’s Chief Officer. He retired the
other day after 47 years’ service, inter-
rupted to distribute ammo in France with
the Ist Div. Ammunition Column and,
later, hurl it about with the 110th Howit-
zer Battery. Before the war, from 1909
to 1914, he played first-grade Rugby
League for Eastern Suburbs, with time off
FIRES
in 1910 to fight his first big fire —at
The Bulletin’s old home, 214 George-
street, when the P.M.G.-half of the
building was gutted. Griffiths helped save
The Bulletin on that occasion, but later
the same year The Bulletin’s process-
engraving department, despite his efforts,
was completely destroyed. Holder of the
King’s Police and Fire Services Medal
for outstanding bravery in the line of
duty, the chief did not retire behind his
desk once he had reached the top of the
fireman’s ladder ; although around 60, he
continued to lead his men into all major
fires. His ability to do this could have
stemmed from his water-logged condition,
resulting from a daily soaking, winter and
summer, in the Domain baths.
• •
T. F. Mornane, who succeeds F. G.
Menzies (brother of R. G.) as Crown
Solicitor in Victoria, was assistant Aus-
tralian prosecutor at the Japanese war-
crimes tribunals when Tojo and 26 other
major figures in the atrocity drama were
. tried under Mr. Justice Mansfield.
When Mansfield returned to Australia
the new Crown Solicitor took over his
job. Six years of War II Diggering.
• •
“Pip Tok”: Met in Perth at the start
of an extended tour of Australia and
New Zealand, Viscount Brookeborough
of Colebrooke, Prime Minister of
Northern Ireland since 1943. A trim,
soldierly-looking legislator, he claims to
be more interested in his country’s eco-
nomic and industrial development than
in the routine of politics, stressing its need
for greater overseas trade. A captain in
the 10th Hussars in War I, he won M.C.
and Croix de Guerre with 1 Palm ; he had
left the regiment before its command was
taken over by Westralian Governor Sir
Charles Gairdner. As the first British
Commonwealth Prime Minister from
overseas to visit Westralia, he has been
given the freedom of the City of
Fremantle.
Roy Vivian Nevile, Q.C., commences
1955 as president of the Westralian Arbi-
tration Court. A rangy six-footer, one
of the most scholarly of Westralia’s legal
lights, he has crowded much practice into
his 50 years. Going to the University on
an exhibition from Perth Modern School,
he took his B.A. at 19, and was one of
the first three to graduate in the newly-
formed faculty of law. Admitted to prac-
tice in 1930 and appointed Crown Solici-
tor in 1946, he took silk last December.
War service was with R.A.A.F. Intelli-
gence in Northern Australia and Dutch
New Guinea. Out-of-court he has tutored
in law subjects and lectured in economics
at the Westralian University.
• •
“Macnell”: Part of the training of
cadets at the R.A.N. College on Western-
port Bay takes in boat-sailing—seaman-
ship still being the prime concern of a
fighting fleet. You can bet a jib to a
bob-stay that three young-’uns down
there (name of Graham, Dodd, Jones)
will pass-out in the subject. They’re
members of the crew of the Navy’s Tam
O’ Shanter, the six-ton, 34ft., ocean-going
Bermuda-rigged sloop used normally for
training, and given a fly in the Hobart
yacht-race. She’s skippered by Ronald
Robertson, D.S.C.; at other times com-
mander at the college. Son of a First
A.I.F. captain, big “Robbie” (never known
to really bark, never known without a
grin) had, at first, a sort of evacuating
war—at Dunkirk, at Crete, at Tobruk;
and, on the exchange side, in the Nor-
mandy comeback, at Lingayen and
aboard U.S.S. Missouri for the signing in
Tokio bay. A signals expert, he’s been
flag-lieutenant (part of the branch’s
perks) to Farncomb in the Pacific.
m a 1
“X.S.”: When Yehudi Menuhin’s
wife was confined in a Melbourne hospi-
tal Yehudi came along every day and
played his Stradivarius at her bedside.
Occupants’ beds on the same floor were
absolutely delighted with his entertain-
ment and looked forward every day to a
free concert from the virtuoso. A patient
on the floor above, however, sent for the
matron and bitterly complained that a
hospital was no place for a person to
practise music in. “I wouldn’t mind,”
he said, “if the fellow was a decent
player.”
• •
A Stateless father, Percival C. S. Willix,
and his 22-year-old son, Rodney, are
among the latest batch of Westralian
residents to become naturalised Austra-
lians. Though English by race and
British subjects by birth, they were bom
in Burma and lost their British status
when Burma went out of the Common-
wealth. The son was well acclimatised
before he became naturalised. He has just
taken his finals for the Westralian Uni-
versity’s B.Sc. degree, and, three years
ago, in the belief that he was still a British
subject, did his National Service training,
and is now sergeant in the Westralian
University Regiment.
• •
“M.G.”: Met in his hometown of Mel-
bourne, Alfred Daff (B. 29/12/’54), is
unimpressed by the direction Austra-
lian films are taking—as president of
International Films, he has had some
experience of them. According to Daff,
the average American doesn’t want to
know about our empty, arid spaces, our
sheep and cattle dying from lack of
water, our “Waltzing Matildas,” willy-
willies, Dad and Dave and our rich,
storied past packed with convicts and
Ned Kellys. They would sooner hear
about our modem cities, our industries
and our modem people who are opening
up a new world.
• •
“Westral”: Passed on in Perth, at
85, Dr. William Somerville, veteran
Labor man identified with the cultural
life of Westralia for more than 40 years.
Son of a Newcastle (N.S.W.) miner, he
served his apprenticeship as an engineer,
and remained a member of the Amalga-
mated Engineers’ Union for the rest of
his life. He crossed to Westralia at the
turn of the century; where his sturdy
figure and strong mind soon made him
a leader in industrial circles. For several
years employees’ representative on the
State Arbitration Court, on the cultural
side he was a trustee of the Perth Public
Library, Museum and Art Gallery, and
a foundation-member of the Westralian
University Senate. That body honored
his services with a Doctorate of Law.
He was largely responsible for the choice
of the site of the University (in face of
considerable opposition) and the laying-
out of the University grounds. A strik-
ing feature of these is the outdoor
theatre in the sunken-garden, now called
the Somerville Auditorium. His booklet
on the auditorium’s history was pub-
lished a few days before his death.
Another job of landscape-decoration was
his planting of trees on Perth’s holiday-
resort, Rottnest Island. This was done
while he was on the Rottnest Board of
Control from 1929 to 1951.
• •
“X.S.”: I see that Namatjira has been
lobbed for having partaken of a drink
from £ bottle his half-caste tribal brother
brought him, probably to celebrate
Christmas. Always dignified, Namatjira
said in court: “I am not a drinking
man. I am an aborigine, and I know it
is wrong.” The simplicity of this retort
upon the white-man could be equalled
only by the remark of ah aborigine once
made about W. McColl, of the Native
Affairs Department, who testified at
Namatjira’s trial to the honorable good-
living and impeccable character of the
accused, “Have you seen this Son of
God?” said the abo. to a white man com-
ing out of a revival meeting. “No.” “Oh,
you haven’t seen him?” “No —why?”
“Well, I was just wondering if he was
Billy McColl, the protector at Alice
Springs.”
• •
A New Zealander, Colonel Richard
Home Studholme, is to fill the vacancy
in the Court of Aldermen of the City of
London—Australian Sir Leslie Boyce,
lately London’s Lord Mayor, having
resigned. Colonel Studholme, raised a
solicitor, was in Hitler’s war —Deputy
Director of Artillery, and also qualified
as a parachutist.
© •
“I have,” said the gentle, mellifluous
tones at the door, “come to inquire after
Harry Julius and John Barr and Percy
Lindsay.” The inquirer, Clement May,
shook his head a little wistfully when
told that Julius and Barr and Percy
Lindsay had passed on into the silence.
“I knew them,” he said, “but it was a
long time ago.”
It was indeed —way back before World
War I, when May was playing at Sydney
Tiv.
Born at Bendigo, he won at the
National Eisteddfod at Ballarat in speech
and character-acting (Peter Dawson won
the year before). After that, May took
naturally to the stage, at one time play-
ing many of Bland Holt’s roles after
Holt retired. He had his doubts when it
was suggested that he should try some
Shakspeare and Dickens characters in
variety programmes at the Tiv., and was
pleasantly surprised to find that
audiences “ate them.”
That was the beginning of a long
career, with mainly Dickens and Shak-
speare, which took him six times around
the world. Once, during a five-weeks’
season in Delhi, he consented to do an
outside show, which turned out to be a
recital of Dickens at a Mohammedan
wedding; after the show most of his
audience of 300 men were eager to dis-
cuss, in Oxford or Cambridge accents,
! the merits of Shakspeare, Dickens,
Thackeray and Burns.
May gave his last legit, performances
in Barrie plays at the Pasadena State
FOOTLIGHTS
Playhouse in California before retiring
to Vancouver Island in British Columbia,
That was about 15 years ago, since when
he has given lecture-recitals on Dickens
and Shakspeare at high-schools and uni-
j i r + .
versities up and down the length of the
Pacific Coast, from Canada to Mexico,
covering about 137,000 miles and reciting
to 290,000 students before he finally
. ~ t . j. J
retired last year his last audience was
2500 Students at Portland, Oregon.
“Uramao”: Collected a fellowship in
dental surgery of the Royal College of
Surgeons, Edinburgh, John Warren, Pro-
fessor of Conservative Dentistry at Otago
University Dental School (N.Z.). He
served six years overseas in War ll—two
years with the Kiwis, the rest in captivity
—and took his doctorate last year at the
Australian College of Dentistry.
DON CHIPP, selected by Melbourne
City Fathers to organise their side of the
1956 Olympic frenzy — visitors’ accom-
modation, co-ordinating entertainments,
decorating the city.
“In the Act”: Jim Odgers, Usher of the
Black Rod in the Federal Parliament, is
due to leave Sydney next week for three
months in the U.S. studying Parliamen-
tary procedure, especially the working of
the Senate there. He will travel on a
Smith-Mundt grant from the U.S. State '
Department, and will probably visit
England (and the Mother of Parliaments)
on his return voyage, timed to end before
Parliament assembles in Canberra.
Odgers, who dons the ruffles, silk knee-
breeches, buckled-shoes and cocked-hat
on State occasions, has come under notice
through his close studies of the Constitu-
tion and the working of Parliament. His
writings on the subject have attracted
attention abroad, and his report on the
coming trip will be: awaited eagerly by
Senators, of both sides, who are anxious
to increase the prestige and influence
of the Upper House. Odgers is also
secretary of the Parliamentary Foreign
Affairs Committee.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wonthaggi (Vic.), at 74, Cyril Victor
Davies, one of Australia’s first country news-
agents to deliver the dailies by car. He started
off with a “T”-model Ford which became as
familiar in the district as the pit-heads. At the
turn of the century he captained Wonthaggi at
the annual, country cricket-week in Melbourne;
some years earlier he had laid the town’s first
turf-wicket.
In London, at 78, Major-General Sir John
Davidson, War I Director of Military Opera-
tions in France. He was C. 8., D. 5.0., held the
American D.S.M., and had eleven “mentions.”
From 1937-49 he had been chairman of the
Union Bank of Australia, and for almost the
same period chairman of Dalgety’s.
In Perth, at 87, Arthur George Hewby, for
years manager of the Agricultural Bank (now
the Rural and Industries). Particularly remem-
bered for his forceful drive when the late Sir
James Mitchell introduced land-settlement and
immigration schemes in the early 1920’5.
In Sydney, at 68, Albert Baldry Abel, founder
and former managing-director of two large
margarine and nut-food firms in Sydney.
Technically-minded as well, he pioneered several
production-advances in his industries, and was
continually experimenting in agriculture, horti-
culture and plant-biology. Well-known at
Tatt.’s.
In Los Angeles (U.S.A.), at 54, James Hilton,
of the well-remembered Mr. Chips. He
authored just under a score of novels, most of
them in the past 10 years; some of them, like
Random Harvest, Knight Without Armor and
Lost Horizon, widely popular.
At Baulkham Hills (out of Sydney), at 56,
Eric Dare, g.m. of Mullards, the radio-valve
manufacturers, and of Condor Lamps. For
long in the radio-electrical industry, in 1927
he and Ray Allsop organised, through Holland,
a rebroadcast of the 8.8. C first time
London was heard, generally, in Australia. In
War I in the Wireless Corps, later lieutenant
in the A.F.C., in War II he was in charge
of the Cumberland (N.S.W.) division of the
Air Training Corps. Worked well for Legacy.
At 58, in Sydney, Gordon Barr, 40 years a
schoolmaster, secondary schools’ representative
on the Teachers’ Appointment Board. He
relieved James H. Killip (after Killip’s 16 years
of headmastering Sydney Boys’ High School) in
1951.
At Apia (Samoa), at 51, Percy William Glover,
astronomer with the New Zealand Department
of Scientific and Industrial Research. His main
study was air-currents, with his h.-q. at
Wigram, one of N.Z.’s first airfields and train-
ing-centres. Appointed to the Apia Observatory
in 1930, retired therefrom in 1934, he wrote many
papers on astronomy, some published in
French scientific journals.


w,
SINCE I GAV£ UP
GOLF IVE PROVED THAT
BOWL.S IS DEFINITELY
CHEAPEN THAtsf GOLF ... .
T
[N THREE YEARS
of puay (Ve never,
lost A Bowl. . v
NO ROUGH


ABORIGINALITIES
IF there is one animal that has contrived
to do a bit of social-climbing since I
was a kid it is the goat. Then, anybody
who couldn’t afford a goat couldn’t afford
anything.
Recognised price for a healthy, weaned
kid was four-bob, 7s. 6d. for a nanny at
the flapper-stage, half-a-flag to twelve-
and-a-break for a young milker. Wil-
liam’s services were valued at Is. 3d. a
time, or a bob if he was asked to commit
bigamy for the same owner.
To-day “nanny” is out —she’s been
elevated into a “doe” —and to offer less
than a tenner for a spinster doe would
be to insult the owner or have him
insult you.
Stud-fees are spoken of in professional
guineas. And the party of the second
part is never referred to as a “billy”; he
is now a “buck.”
But —buck or billy—you never think
of attar of roses when you pass near
him.
Sackfair.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Know a Monaro (N.S.W.)
cocky who pins his weather-forecasting
faith to the skin of a red-bellied black
Joe Blake hanging under his veranda.
When water begins to drip from it he
starts to batten-down the hatches.
Jupiter P. can be depended on to open
the flood-gates within 24 hours of that
happening.
* * * *
“A.J.S.”: The old saw about feeding
strawberries to pigs gained new point
in a Westralian police-court case. A
settler charged a neighbor with having
“unlawfully detained one pig.” De-
fendant produced photos of Dennis
making a hog of himself in his straw-
berry-patch, and considered he was
entitled to impound it. Unfortunately
for him, the pig escaped and couldn’t
be found. The Beak was sympathetic,
“A coat of paint, and you wont know WHAT it's built of."
but under the law fined defendant two-
quid and ordered return of Dennis within
48 hours.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: A pity the dies which
moulded the first bricks manufactured in
Australia (B. 24/11 / ’54) can’t be found.
Probably the “frog”—the indent formed
in the bottom of the brick to give extra
“key”—was in four patterns: heart,
spade, club and diamond. I’ve pulled
down and relaid a number of very old
hand-made bricks with such “frogs.” The
early bricks are easily recognised by
their thinness, since they conformed to
the English sizes: 9in. long, 4fin. wide
"It wasn't an accident exactly, Doc.; I was out I.b.w."
and 2fin. thick. Each course was in-
tended to rise 3in., the mortar-joint taking
up the remaining -|in. Later Australian
brickmakers decided on a brick 3in.
thick, bringing about a saving of one
course in every eight courses laid.
Except for some ornamental types, the
thicker brick became the Australian
standard, but the English brickmaker
stuck to the old sizes. The American
evolved his own dimensions —a ridiculous
Bin. long, 4in. wide and 2iin. thick.
Thus, to equal the face-afea of a thousand
Aussie bricks, the English bricky must
lay about 1225 and, despite the much-
boasted American efficiency, the Yank
has to get in something like 1500.
* * * »
“Bogaduck”: Not only does “Q.V.”
(B. 15/12/’54) doubt if white cockatoo
can be rung-in as wild-duck; he also
puts the former bird into the well-nigh
inedible class. As a cook, “Q.V.’s”
obviously hopeless ; but for others here’s
some advice: Reject birds whose corru-
gated beaks and scaly claws show they
might be venerable. Pluck and draw
the rest and hang for from one to three
days, depending on the weather —don’t
put them in a refrigerator. Now put the
birds, after stuffing them, into a large
boiler with a close-fitting lid. Put an
inch of water in it and stand the birds
on a wire grid to keep them just clear of
the water. Steam very gently until a
knitting-needle will go through to the
breastbone. Now place in the baking-
dish side by side with the wild-ducks,
and roast. Use the water left in the boiler
to make the gravy. Carve the cockatoos
so the shape doesn’t give the show
away, and don’t put any cockatoo-bones
on the plates. It has fooled thousands.
* * # *
“Slip”: We kept a cow in a Perth
suburb when I was a kid, and I scored
the job of taking it out to graze in
various paddocks, and bringing it home
after school for Mum to milk. Well, I
didn’t mind that so much, but I was
crooked on the Old Man when he copped
me riding it home and promptly
flattened me. Comfortable saddle, those
two high hipbones.
“H.C.8.”: For 40 years Alby had lived
alone in, apparently, contented
bachelordom. Then, with no preliminary
weakening or tangible reason, he married
a widow whose previous husband had
committed suicide nagged to it, so
local rumor said. Within weeks Alby’s
bliss seemed to fade. He ceased to sit
and smoke on the veranda of his little
weatherboard cottage —no matter when
you passed he would be working in the
garden or on odd jobs. Sounds of verbal
strife frequently floated out in one-sided
argument, a sample of which Charlie was
sorrowfully rehashing to us when 1
happened to look out the window.
“Lord,” I gasped, “poor old Alby’s hung
himself.” Clearly defined through the old
chap’s window was the bottom half of his
body, elevated so that his shins were about
3ft. off the floor. Never have four blokes
taken off more rapidly. As usual, 1 came
fourth in the race. But I got there in
time to hear the crusher delivered:
“Albert is too busy to come out now;
he’ll talk to you when he has nothing to
do.” It was Chick who had the courage
to go around the side and peep in the
window. Old Alby was standing on a
table, savagely painting the ceiling.
THE VALLEY
No place where I have heard a lyrebird
sing
Is ever common in my memory
But brightness runs through all its leaves
like water;
How clear then on the soft grass of this
valley
Far in all lands the light will fall for me
And on the high, dark-bearded hills that
hold
In their rough grasp this secret cup of
gold.
And quiet fills it up, song-rippled
silence . . .
It seems you are first-foot here since time
began
So deep that dreaming—but over the
native trees
The dusky spire of the Norfolk Island pine
Gives warning. Last rearguard of defeated
man, f
The square stone chimney keeps his post,
vines climbing
Pale as wreathed smoke up through his
blackness now,
And under the lillypillies by the spring,
Like the end of an old song, ihe English
violets,
Then in dry grass the dark bones of a
plough
And up the hill, zigzag from sun to shade,
The high-piled stonework where a road
was made.
So there were voices here in the noon hush
(How long ago!) and the heat flung back
again
From the rockwall ringing with picks into
sweaty faces,
Feet slithering on sheoak needles, rolling
stones . . .
Dusk found them here at the world’s end
then, those men
Brought out from the bustling towns,
hedged fields—that hour
When even to the native-born the bush is
eerie
When trees look back at you, and their
twisted limbs
Glow strangely on, though the red sky
has faded.
And westward, ridge on ridge, the darken-
ing sea
Of land, a continent without a light—
How small their twinkling fires under the
height!
Still lonelier when they had gone; the
nights in winter
Were long, for the shade falls early here,
and slow
For the woman who planted the violets
and watched by this hearth
While her children slept—the children who
should inherit—
Till the window paled with blessed dawn,
to show
The white mist creeping cold with the
narrow tide
That the mangroves and the folded hills
let pass
From the unseen river. And still the grey-
green flood
Gleams through the leaves each day, laps
the gravestone sinking
In salt mud, and ebbs; but over the yellow
grass
Comes in the shining blue-green tide of
the bracken
Towards the rusty plough, and will not ebb
again.
In the city 1 have thought with horror
(knowing
I walked above dank sewers where slav-
ishly'
Crawled the dumb creeks that sparkled
once and sang
Through flowers to the clean shore), A
day will come
When we shall look through this whole
land and see
Our ugly trail, all her dear wildness gone.
But here that dread is mocked. Into the
sun
Her eyes of stone stare blind across the
valley
Where her vast, awful ages have gone by
And man’s brief, twisting day, snake-swift,
has run.
She has no need to rouse herself and kill,
She has only to wait, and soon the grass is
still.
And part of me is content it should be so
While from the gully’s tangled green is
poured
The song of songs in glory to God (one
song
Had not been enough for that voice of
power and wonder).
Still in his ferny kingdom he is lord
Dancing for joy there, the innocent,
beautiful creature;
But what are we, and where have our
highways led
That 1 should not be glad at least this
road leads on
To nowhere now, with wattles and five-
corners
Thick in the fading wheel-ruts marked by
the dead,
Only from deep-blue shade to golden
sun—
That here our journey is ended, our
travelling done?
But part of me, reconciled to my own poor
kind,
Worst and best of things, whose pain is
holy yet,
Must grieve for the aching backs, the road
built in faith,
For feet trudging after the plough in hope
of harvest,
For hands that made a garden in love, and
set
The fire on the hearth—for all that came
to nothing
In this lost valley where the lyrebirds sing.
N.S.W.
NAN McDONALD.
POETRY IN PIES
WAY down in the Victorian Western
District in the good old days my
father ran a pie-shop. One day there
wafted in a long-nosed cove who put it
on Dad for a buckshee feed. Dad, who’d
got a little tired of giving handouts, was
reluctant about it, whereupon the drifter
grabbed a pencil, sketched a figure reclin-
ing under a tree with a dream floating
above its head, and wrote this beneath:
Alone upon a lonely track
A main lay sleeping on his back;
A vision • rose before his eyes—
Shaw’s pies!
Dad was so taken with this that he fed
the cove and sent him on his way. Then
he got four large sheets of cardboard,
copied drawing and doggerel on to them,
and nailed one to each of our four shop-
veranda posts.
Across the street there was an Italian
in the same line of business as Dad, and
this display of erudite publicity moved
him to bribe sundry small boys to throw
mud on the signs. My sister and I cap-
tured one of the throwers and Dad made
him confess.
Dad then went to the pub, had a
couple, came back, invaded Italy, grabbed
r that Italian man, bounced him up and
down and threw him outside. He was
throwing most of the shop after him
when the police arrived.
It cost Dad eleven-quid in fines and
costs, but, as the Italian man burst into
tears and offered to pay half, the whole
thing ended in amity.
OLD-TIMER.


/CRICKET problems can take an odd
twist in bush games. During a match
in s.-w. N.S.W. a farmer’s fence pro-
vided one side of the boundary. A bats-
man skied the ball, which fell into a
hollow fence-post and couldn’t be
recovered. The batsmen ran six. With
the umpires undecided, one scorer
recorded six, the other four. Without
these runs there was a difference of five
between the totals of the two teams.
Then the argument started. It’s still on.
-“Slog.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Fishing on a moonless
night at a Diamantina (Q.) waterhole,
we puzzled over how the bait was disap-
pearing from our shrimp-bag, suspended
in shallow water from a tree. Our sur-
prise equalled the culprit’s when we
landed him by torchlight—a very large
wild-cat. His modus operandi, we
deduced, was to crawl out on the sup-
porting limb and use his claws on the
rope to lift the bag from the water, and
then chew the meat-bait loose from its
tie. Booty in hand, down went bag and
away went cat, leaving nary a tittle of
evidence.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were shovelling
gravel into motor-trucks out of Ballarat
(Vic.) and the boss had a habit of coming
to the job, grabbing a banjo, working
furiously for about 20 minutes, then giv-
ing us a look as much as to say, “That’s
the way to do it,” and rushing off some-
where else. Mat oiled me up one day,
and when the boss appeared and hopped
in we dropped our shovels and sat down.
“What’s up with you two?” he demanded.
“Nothing,” Mat said. “It’s just that we
love to watch you. Go ahead and shovel,
were willing to learn.” That cured
him.
* * * •
“H.A.L.”: All modern breeds of
domestic pigeon seem to have descended
from the blue rock-pigeon of North
Africa, first domesticated about 4000
years ago by the Gyppos, who also were
first to discover the presence of homing
instinct, when birds sold or traded flew
back to their birthplace as soon as the
new owner released them. To use them
for carrying messages was an obvious
step. It was done first by releasing them
from caravans crossing the desert, to take
back progress reports, news of attacks
by hostile tribesmen or —with birds bred
at the destination —a message giving the
expected day of arrival. Gradually this
was expanded into the famous pigeon-
post of the Fatimid Caliphs of some 1000
years ago. Relays of birds, with the aid
of stations at oases en route, carried
messages from Cairo to Basra, on the
Persian Gulf; thence another relay of
birds took messages to Constantinople—
total distance covered, about 2000 miles.
Until the coming of the cable and the
telegraph, merchants in India used the
Basra-Constantinople link of the pigeon-
post to get urgent messages to Europe.
* * * *
“Morayda”: The expression of grief
among abos here in the Centre may take
any form. Immediately on being told of
the death of his cousin, a massive
six-footer named Kingy picked up
a butcher’s knife and laid open
the calf of his leg. The wound
was so severe that the doctor was
called from Alice Springs. Kingy is his
grinning, carefree self again, but he will
always have a limp as, a memento of
his reaction to the news of his bereave-
ment.
* * * *
“Baksac”: The white fungus we used
to gather when we were kids, not from
dead, damp wood but from the bark of
living box-trees, had no visible luminous
properties in its natural state, but a
scientifically minded membeT of our
hockey-team nutted out its possibilities.
He soaked some in kerosene for several
days, then painted our primitive goal-
posts with the fluid for night-play. Our
sticks were the root-and-stem of a tea-
tree shrub, the ball a treacle-tin. But
we were proud of those illuminated goal-
posts: they stood out like jazz-caps at a
wake.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: The peat-swamps of by-
gone ages have been of immense econo-
mic importance, for in them were laid
down the great beds of vegetable-matter
which became the coal-seams of today.
Those of a later vintage have been of
great service to science ; the tannin in
them acts as a wood-preservative. From
peat-swamps, too, have come wooden
weapons and implements of Stone-Age
man in a surprisingly good state of pre-
servation. One of the most important
finds was made in New Zealand ; when a
North Island swamp was drained it re-
vealed a beautifully-carved door-lintel,
hundreds of years old, evidently hidden
there by some Maori people while await-
ing an attack by another tribe. Today it
serves as a connecting-link between the
original art of Central Polynesia and the
very distinctive form of wood-carving
which the Maori people had developed by
the time white settlement in Maoriland
had begun.
OLD BORE'S ALMANACK FOR 1955
Jan.: A day will pass without Dr.
Evatt issuing a statement, and alarm will
be expressed in A.L.P. circles as to his
well-being. A Hollywood star will obtain
a divorce from her ninth husband, and
by an oversight, owing to the loss of her
diary, will remarry for the third time her
second husband. Sydney tram-crews will
call a “lightning” strike and leave thous-
ands of holiday-makers stranded as a
protest against the design of their uni-
form-buttons. The organiser of the
Banana-benders’ Union will have his
yacht stolen.
Feb.: “Red Star,” official organ of
the Red Army, will disclose that the
archimedean screw was the invention of
a brilliant Russian military engineer,
Serge Archimedikoff. A Government
marketing-board which has just disclosed
a loss of £116,000 on last year’s opera-
tions will move into its new one-and-a-
quarter-million-pound building. A major
shake-up of newspaper executives will
follow appearance of an afternoon issue
which fails to include a photo of a
grinning flapper in a bra.-top swim-suit.
A workman will be found on Sydney
City Council’s municipal golf-course who
isn’t a relative of a “Labor” alderman.
Mar.: An amateur fisherman will be
fined for failing to throw back several
undersized flathead he caught, and Dr.
Evatt will claim that this is a cunning
move in a plot to wreck the Labor
party and discredit him as its leader.
Following his criticism of the method of
running collectivist lotteries, the secre-
tary of the Hungarian Young Com-
munists will go to Moscow for health
treatment; subsequently the Kremlin
will announce with regret his death from
shingles, and he will be accorded a State
funeral. N.S.W. Premier Cahill will
promise a deputation of churchmen to
“give consideration” to their request to
have the Easter Show closed on Good
Friday.
Apl.: A foreign correspondent will
predict that a serious shortage of birds’-
nests for soup, bamboo-shoots and gold-
fish will force Chinese Communist Presi-
dent Mao into a south-west martial
adventure to divert his people’s thoughts
from the regime’s shortcomings. Good
“What's your vitamin-content ?”
Friday attendances at the Sydney Easter
Show will break all records. Pierre Bal-
main will order the world’s women to
drop their waistlines 6in. A Brisbane
wharfie will be found drunk at midnight
on a wharf beside an opened case of
whisky, and next day the port will be
tied-up in protest against the Stevedoring
Industry Board’s refusal to pay him
penalty-rates for overtime.
May: Dr. Evatt will claim that refer-
ence in a medical-journal article to the
need for care in cutting the toenails con-
stitutes a thinly veiled attack on himself
and the “great party he has the honor
to lead.” He will send a long telegram
to Mr. Menzies. There will be a thunder-
storm in Sydney with some chain-light-
ning, and every city newspaper will
describe it as a “freak” storm. Holly-
wood will screen a Dickens masterpiece,
“Mine's the wan whitewashed yeller .”
and in the list of “credits” issued by the
studio the author will be allotted 5 p.c.
and the make-up man 45 p.c. A gossip-
columnist will unaccountably leave his
name out of a par.
June: A four-line poem written by
Emperor Hirohito in praise of the silver-
fish which ate a hole in his military uni-
form will win a nation-wide competition
in Japan. Only 14 police will be needed
to escort the referee of a Footscray-
Fitzroy football match to the dressing-
room, and old-timers will deplore this
evidence of the game’s deterioration.
Jakob Malik will smile during a U.N.O.
session, and afterwards will have to seek
medical treatment for a sore face. A
publican, winner of a big inter-State
lottery, will remark on being told of
his win: “So what? It’s just chicken-
feed.”
July: At a 17-course banquet thrown
by Malenkov to the Foreign Ministers
of the three Western Powers the Russian
Premier will express his personal satis-
faction at the lessening of tension be-
tween East and West, and will describe
as “a traitor to mankind” anyone who
sets out to reverse the trend. Next day
“Pravda” will make a violent attack on
the “bloodthirsty warmongers of the
West.” There will be a Donnybrook
between three factions at a meeting of a
State A.L.P. executive, and Dr. Evatt
will describe newspaper reports of it as
“a desperate attempt by the capitalist
press to sow discord where in fact none
exists.”
Aug.: An 18-year-old player at
Wimbledon will create a sensation by
appearing in a thigh-length skirt and
diaphanous monogrammed briefs.
Though beaten 6-0, 6-1 in her opening-
round match, she will immediately be
offered a £5OO-a-week contract by Holly-
wood, and also have offers for a profes-
sional-tennis tour. There will be 18
minutes of sunshine for England’s Bank
Holiday, and London “Times” will
welcome the return to normal of England’s
summer weather. A migrant named
Stincker will change his name by deed-
poll to Smellie.
Sept.: Spokesmen for Sydney breweries
will express confidence that unlimited
quantities of bottled beer will be avail-
able for the public at Christmas. A man
from Tucsa (Okla.) will get a divorce
on the grounds of mental cruelty, he
having proved his wife had the habit of
filing her nails with an emery-board in
bed. The Watercress Marketing Board
will be established in N.S.W., and the
ex-secretary of the Feather Mattress
Stuffers’ Union will be appointed its first
chairman at £3OOO p.a. “because of his
specialised knowledge of the industry.”
The invention of a corset which stretches
seven ways will be announced.
Oct.: It will be reported that Sydney
fielders suffered their most serious losses
for years at the big spring meeting. On
the night of the final day seven of
Sydney’s biggest bookies will be seen
playing bung-rules at a well-known night-
spot, using as a ball a tied-up bundle of
£lOO notes. A Labor M.P. who owns
seven blocks of fiats and a chaffeur-
driven limousine will tell a by-election
audience that his proudest boast is that
he has never lost the common touch. A
major shake-up among executives of a
Sydney afternoon - paper will follow
appearance of an issue in which a girl
charged with murder is not described as
“attractive.”
Nov.: Defending the record of the
Labor-run Sydney City Council, an
alderman will claim that the strictest
economies were being practised. Two
hundred dozen oysters and 16 dozen
bottles of champagne will be consumed
at a banquet given by Sydney’s Lord
Mayor in honor of 30 distinguished
guests who comprise officials of the
Municipal Employees’ Union and those
of several Labor leagues. A man who
fired a gun at a number of radio tots
singing “I Like Somebodee’s Jellee” will
be charged with attempted murder, but
will be discharged without the jury
leaving the box.
Dec.: Bottled-beer in Sydney will be
rationed to two bottles a week, and only
for regular customers holding bar-tickets.
A message from the N.S.W. hamlet of
Bunyip Springs (pop. 232) will reveal
that the licensee of the only pub has had
to have an extra shed built to accommo-
date the 1580 dozen bottles of beer he
had just received from Sydney breweries.
Dr. Evatt will declare that alterations to
the shape and color of lolly-pigs made
by an Adelaide confectionery concern
are part of a general conspiracy to split
the “Labor” party and drive him from
public life.
BO.


TO ANY EXECUTIVE
FROM HIS SECRETARY
I read that advertisement
recently, and I must say I feel
sorry for you! How you
manage to carry on under that
awful pressure, I can’t imagine.
We all worry about you—we
hate to see you looking so
tired and old, because you’re
a nice, kind person, even if you
do get irritable at times. But
it’s really your own fault. Why
don’t you do as the ad. says
and get a Dimafon?
Apart from what a Dimafon
will do for you, think of what
it will do for me. Don’t you
realise how much better I
could handle your correspond-
ence if I could transcribe it
through the day, instead of
popping in and out of your
office whenever you have time
to dictate? You could get it
olf your mind at any old time.
I could type it off while you’re
busy doing other things, or
out on business. There’d be
no five o’clock rush, no frantic
last-minute scurry to get the
mail done. Your letters,
reports and what-not would be
done on time —and done
accurately.
Am I boasting? Not a bit!
You see, it’s so easy with a
Dimafon. Every word comes
out clearly. I can take a few
words—or a phrase—or a
sentence —at a time just
whatever I can type comfort-
ably. If there’s anything I
don’t understand, I can go
back over it to make quite
sure. No tricky gadgets to
operate either—just that simple
foot control for start —stop—
reverse.
Believe me, Boss, a Dimafon
would make us both a lot
happier.
Phone Chartres Ltd. for a
demonstration —M 0425
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited ,
Manufacturers and Packers of/—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
TIMBER MERCHANTS
SAW MILLERS
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Investment Outlook
It is unlikely that Australian
sharemarkets will make any
spectacular move forward
during the first two or three
months of 1955. Money avail-
able for investment has shrunk,
as has been disclosed by the
undersubscription in December
of the £5O million 4i p.c. long-
term Commonwealth cash loan
by £l3 million. Tighter
bank - credit conditions are
shown up clearly in the rush
on to the market by terms-
finance cos. for new ord.-share
capital and offering 6 p.c. and
7 p.c. for four-five-year deben-
ture-money. Greasy wool at
auction averaged 71.9 d. a
pound during the first five
months of 1954-55, compared
with 85.3 d. in the same period
of the preceding financial year.
Wheat is pretty sick for the
present. Our external income
has fallen, and the screws have
been reimposed in some sections
of the import trade.
Consumer-spending may re-
main mostly high, but invest-
ment funds have shrunk.
Investors will be seeking
bigger yields generally, and they
will be more selective than usual
in their buying. Individual
stocks should make headway,
according to improvement in
their individual trading results.
Interim dividends should start
to come along in February and
March. But it is unlikely that
there will be as many increases
in the interim-rates as there
were last year, even though most
of last year’s increases may stay
put. Though trading results for
the first half of the current
financial term should be better
for many manufacturers and
retailers than for the same half
of the preceding term, higher
finance-costs in some cases,
tighter credit-conditions, the
increased price of steel and the
lift in marginal rates of pay
will create a cautious approach
in boardroom dividend-policy.
Many industries should con-
tinue to notch new records in
output from now to the end of
June. The demand for steel and
cement, among other things,
should remain high. And the
curtailment of various imports
will strengthen the selling posi-
tion of some industries. But in
others, such as the woollen-
textile trade, there is likely to be
a small setback.
There may be dividend-
increases from some concerns
which were overcautious in
respect of the 1953-54 term. And
some manufacturers of special
lines are catering for a market
which is obviously under-
supplied. Two examples which
come quickly to mind are
Masonite (compressed building-
board) and Minster (rubber-
based carpet). But there are
problems to be taken intp
account in all cases. Often a
company which is unable to
satisfy the demands of all its
customers is using part of its
profits to finance the necessary
plant-expansion. And Masonite,
in its special case, has a complex
capital-structure which inhibits
div.-policy.
The major cement companies,
Kandos Cement and Australian
Cement, have been extra-
ordinarily cautious in their div.-
policy. Whatever their boards
may do in respect of the present
year, there is little doubt that
both enterprises could well
afford to increase their distribu-
tions to shareholders.
But the overall investment
picture remains one in which it
should pay to wait a month or
two for any bargains that may
show up. A good deal of
money has been drained-away,
for the present, from the
market for industrial shares.
Some share-prices should show
the effects.
Oil in the West
West Australian Petroleum is
shifting its T 32 rig from Cape
Range No. 1 (now abandoned)
to Warroora, 100 miles south of
Rough Range, and drilling will
be carried out in the salt-marsh
area. Rough Range No. 1 is
drilling at 13,560 ft. in grey lime-
stone. No. 6 is at 2525 ft. Grant
Range is down to 5546 ft.
Consumer-credit Boom
On September 30 the balances
outstanding under hire-purchase
agreements issued by finance
companies totalled £142.7
million, an increase from £94
million 12 months earlier. The
significance of the growth in
consumer-credit over the year
may be gauged from the fact that
during the same period the total
advances, discounts, etc., of the
major trading banks rose to
£B4l million from £694 million.
The expansion in consumer-
credit advances has been at a
much more rapid pace than in the
case of bank advances to
industry.
The growth in hire-purchase
finance over the past 12 months
has brought its own stabilising
influences. Between September
and December, 1953, the increase
in balances outstanding was
15 p.c. In the next quarter the
growth was 9 p.c., next 11 p.c.,
and 9 p.c. between June and
September last year. Over the
year there has been a slight
increase in the proportion of the
sale-price financed. This, too,
has now tended to stabilise.
The chairman of the Bank of
N. S. Wales has pointed out that
the growth in hire-purchase
finance, which involves the
borrowing of money as well as
the lending of it, may mean that
banks will be unable to accom-
modate this particular type of
borrowing client to the extent
that has been done in the past.
Sir Colin Sinclair, in comment-
ing on the inevitable “sophistica-
tion and specialisation of the
money system” as the economy
develops, sounded a warning that
“recent expansion in the
facilities for financing consumer
goods, quite apart from its
potential economic effects,
demands the continued accept-
ance of standards very similar to
those which have become tradi-
tional to bankers, both to safe-
guard those who have lent the
funds and to preserve the stability
of the business.”
Within the past six months
there has been a pronounced
tightening-up in the amount of
bank-credit available for hire-
purchase financiers, in accord-
ance with central-bank policy,
and the almost immediate result
has been a rush to the public
offering shares, notes, debentures
and other forms of security at
increasing rates of interest.
An outstanding example of
what has been going on is the
case of the Custom Credit Corp.,
in which the National Bank of
Australasia owns 40 p.c. of the
capital. After its initial term to
June 30 last paid capital of
Custom Credit was £500,000, and
unsecured-note liabilities, mostly
short-term and carrying up to
4 p.c., amounted to £2,764,000.
Soon after the close of the year
capital was trebled. Then
£750,000 of debenture-stock was
offered to the public, carrying
5 p.c. for two years, 6 p.c. for
four years and over. More than
double the amount asked for was
offered—and accepted.
Custom Credit Corp. is now
on the market for an additional
£3 million of first-mortgage
debenture stock, offering 6 p.c.
“ Clumsy! You don't smash THAT hard before you grab!”
for four years and longer, 5i p.c.
for three years, 5 p.c. for two
years, 4 p.c. for 12 months, and
down the scale to If p.c. for call-
money.
Australian Guarantee Corp.
will ask for £2 million of
registered - debenture money
early in 1955, and will offer
6 p.c. for five-year money, 5f p.c.
for three years, 5 p.c. two years,
4 p.c. for 12 months and 3f p.c.
for three months.
Alliance Acceptance recently
offered 7 p.c. for two-year
deposits and 6 p.c. for one-year
money.
Of all the hire-purchase busi-
ness done in Australia, about
80 p.c. is in respect of motor-
cars. And at present motor-car
sales are at a record high level,
with customers waiting in a long
queue. About 58 p.c. of the
purchase-price of the average
motor-vehicle bought under a
h.-p. agreement is financed on
terms. Plant and machinery
averages 62 p.c., household and
personal goods 80 p.c.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOIy a
osuixnAx
tv wtcud. ’■
S BRftS?" V
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUI/' WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
ROTARY DUPLICATORS
‘PROTECTA 5 ’ SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
'
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOLi situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER. 8.A.. B.Sc.,
mm
m
WM
lil
i&i&S&i
m
gsB»
BjrcSSj!
it
m
m.
SR3
«
L ' .Ufr^V
-S
inventor stamps on bill
A specialized knowledge of electronics and photo-
graphy enabled the owner of these hands to install
a photo-finish device of his own invention at a well-
known trotting track. Here, as Overseas Clerk in a
Bank of New South Wales branch, he uses a rubber
stamp to endorse a bill of lading—a document of
title to goods the shipment of which has been financed
by the Bank.
There are over 8,000 pairs of hands working in
the “Wales”— providing the banking services essential
to modern trade and industry. They are willing to
work for you, too.
VV*
tJoB
Consult and use
d
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5425C
THE FINEST AUTOMOBILE HIRE SERVICE
to Britain and the Continent
m
mm
--
UNHNV* ted j
mileage I
at an all-in rate
Full 5/6 Sealers
Radio
Air Conditioned
and MANY other EXTRAS
1955 VAUXHALL CARS
Here’s a luxury self-drive hire-
car at economy rates. Big car
comfort, speed and amenities at
one all-in charge. A week’s
travel wherever, whenever you
like for £BO (Stg.). Whatever
the mileage there are N O
EXTRA CHARGES. 1955
Vauxhall 5/6 seater cars backed
by General Motors service in
Europe, ensures economic,
trouble-free travel. Book
GOIDENWAY for faultless
service throughout your stay.
AVrite, phone, cable or call
NOW for details.
WE EXCLUSIVELY
USE and RECOMMEND
GOLDENWAY
AUTOMOBILE HIRE COMPANY LIMITED
tsso
PETROL
(Aust. Div.) St. John’s Wood Roundabout, London, N.W.B
’Phone: PRIMROSE 6412. Cables: G'OLWAYHIRE, LONDON.
’Grams: GOLWAYHIRE, NORPHONE, LONDON.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
It is questionable which is the
greater force: the influence of
television on the public or the
influence of the public on tele-
vision. At all events, both are
distinctive and sometimes alarm-
ing phenomena of our life and
times.
At a quarter-to-eight on a
Sunday evening a whole nation
sits up with hopeful apprehen-
sion that one of its household
names, a benign and avuncular
gentleman, will live up to his
reputation for intermittent rude-
ness. If he is testy and irritable
with a guest in the panel-game,
the 8.8. C. telephones immedi-
ately ring in angry protest. The
unfortunate official who faded-
out a football-match a few
seconds before the decisive goal
was scored had personally to
appear twice before the cameras
and bite the dust with embarrass-
ing contrition.
Then there was the terrific
rumpus over the Orwell political
satire, “Nineteen Eighty-Four,”
which began with a heavier-than-
usual flood of telegrams and
phone-calls to newspaper-offices
and the 8.8. C. ,and grew and
grew until it extended to motions
in Parliament. The dramatised
novel had not been on the
screens for two minutes before
protests began to pour in. These
were politically inspired and not
spontaneous. Later, the grim-
ness and brutality of the torture
and brain-washing scenes re-
leased a wave of indignation that
stirred the nation into taking
sides. An inoffensive citizen of
Woolwich, a stevedore by trade
but George Orwell by name,
was fetched out of bed to
answer the furious telephone.
Ironically, posthumous fame
(or, at least, notoriety) has come
in deluge to a serious-minded
author who enjoyed only a
limited success during his life-
time. The “Daily Express” (cir-
culation over 4,000,000) is serial-
ising “Nineteen Eighty-Four.”
An American film company has
secured an option on the play.
“Animal Farm” is to be made
into a film cartoon. And, since
the cinemas were empty on the
night of the repeat-performance,
it may be assumed that every-
body who missed the play on the
previous Sunday made sure that
they weren’t left out of the con-
troversy.
Undoubtedly the fact that the
cast took place on a Sunday
night, when so many English
families are at home, exacerbated
the strong feelings. But it is also
true that they prefer Sunday
evening for their play-watching.
The 8.8. C., in the face of
impending commercial television,
has considerably enhanced its
prestige by refusing to capitulate.
Viewers were warned that the
play was “different” and not for
the squeamish. And, if they
didn’t like it, they were under no
obligation to watch it.
In sum, considered opinion is
less concerned with the merits, of
“Nineteen Eighty-Four” as Sun-
day-night entertainment than
with the forces which tend to
reduce this most potent medium
to the mental level of a ten-
year-old. By sticking to its guns,
the 8.8. C. has established a vital
artistic precept.
Prosperous New Year?
The continuance of our buoy-
ant prosperity, so welcome a
feature of 1954, is naturally
uppermost in mind as the year
wears out. Will it go on?
The year’s record of success is
remarkable. Production, in-
comes, share-values, dividends
and the national income have all
moved confidently upwards. De-
spite the overhanging shadow
of a recession in the U.S.,
the balance-of-payments has
strengthened. Unemployment
figures are the lowest ever. Not-
withstanding the constant threat
of Germany and Japan to our
export trade and comparative
figures that are something in the
nature of a warning, our power
to compete is still considerable.
Sterling persists in its weak-
ness, but Mr. Butler evidently
prefers to let things take their
course; to a mild degree, the
money market has already given
signs of adjusting itself by the
effect of dearer short-term
money.
There are rumblings on the
labor-front, especially on the
railways. The Minister of Trans-
port rightly refused to allow
them what, for all its ingenuity
of phraseology, merely amounted
to a subsidy to pay higher
wages; and, because of deep-
rooted prejudices and restrictive
practices, long-term reorganisa-
tion, with the necessary
modernisation and switching of
staff, presents difficulties that
offer no easy solution. The coal
situation is unsatisfactory and
written off as such. But, largely
because of its own success,
private industry can support
wage-increases, so long as they
are kept within reasonable
bounds. The danger of pricing
ourselves out of the markets is,
of course, ever-present. And
capital investment falls short of
the desirable. Perhaps it is true
to say that the prospect of a rash
of wage-claims, once so uncom-
fortable a thought, is a little less
frightening.
In the simplest language, what
Britain needs for continued
prosperity is a bit of good luck
—a bit more, in fact. No wars,
crises, political upheavals or
blunders and no bad . manage-
ment. That is to say, a reason-
able measure of stability. And
stability, in these uncertain times,
is, after all, largely a matter of
luck.
Tamer and Tamed
“Time Remembered” (Lyric,
Hammersmith) is a light, unsub-
stantial romantic comedy. There
is no subjective cynicism, no
despair, none of the rancid
sensuality of “Ardele” nor yet
the supercharged netherworldli-
ness of “Point of Departure.”
It is rather as if M. Anouilh, in
light-hearted rebellion against his
reputation, had temporarily for-
saken the concert-hall for the
palm court, there to state a
theme, sketchily to indicate the
scoring and to leave the interpre-
tation to individual taste and
improvisation.
William Chappell’s production
takes the hint, and is creative
rather than derivative. It seeks
to fuse Chekhovian idiosyncrasy
with Barrie whimsy. If the
action should flag, there is the
appealing stylism of the decor, a
subtle change of lighting or
simply a Viennese waltz. The re-
sult, without adding up to any-
thing readily definable, is to
actors stimulating, to critics
tonic-giving, and to televiewers
something so alive and colorful
as never to be recaptured for the
Sunday-night play-session.
The theme is the impact of
commonsense sanity upon a
bunch of loonies. The Duchess
(Margaret Rutherford) is harm-
lessly nuts. Her nephew, the
Prince (Paul Scofield), is sick
from love of self and (fancied)
love of an eccentric ballerina,
with whom he had spent three
days before she absentmindedly
strangled herself with her scarf.
On a pretext, the Duchess en-
tices Amanda, a Paris milliner
who resembles the ballerina, into
her Heartbreak House with the
object of bringing the Prince to
his senses. She is young, beauti-
ful and down-to-earth. Mary
Ure, who plays Amanda, is all
these things and has been
acclaimed, unfairly, as an over-
night sensation. Her perform-
ance is no more sensational than
her success is justly deserved, for
it is founded on hard-earned
orthodoxy and a refinement of
technique remarkable for one so
young and unheard of. Especi-
ally commendable is her ability
to express character from within,
as it were, without straining and
without mannerism.
The Old Vic “Taming of the
Shrew” is essentially visual, no
doubt because the play acts
badly. Denis Carey’s production
abounds in comic business that
is often less than funny.
Paul Rogers’s Petruchio
rather suggests a muscle-bound
conquistador in the early
Douglas Fairbanks style to
whom quiet-voiced persuasion
comes easier than hoarse swag-
gering. Ann Todd’s Katharina
is not so much a spitfire as a
harassed and inhibited terma-
gant, but her characterisation is
individual and well-sustained.
The supporting players, merci-
fully obliged neither to tame nor
to be tamed, for once have the
better of their principals.


Cap* tati
QUEENSLAND
★
★Jr
N/"
NEW SOUTH WALES
★
txA/
VICTORIA
★
Portland
"From Cape York to Portland" —
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
fgh
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8.,
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.;
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir
Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398402 Queen Street, Brisbane
Queensland Board: Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V.D. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Vice-Chairman); A. E. Axon,
M.E., M.T.E. (Aust.); W. Hamilton Hart; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : C. D. Wrigley.
Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.
IN Australia’s sheltered post-war
markets, where demand was
spurred by quick growth of popu-
lation and “full” employment at
high and rising wage-rates, output and
sales of local manufacturers of ethical
and other drugs and proprietary medicines
(including those for veterinary use), cos-
metics, toilet preparations and surgical
instruments, etc., bounded along, reach-
ing their peak in 1951.
Then turnover received a sudden jolt,
following the flood of imports
and growth of competition from
abroad, which brought with it
some price-cutting and adjustment
of inventory values. Net earnings
of the big D.H.A. group dropped from
£443,629 in 1951 to £366,491 in 1952,
and then fell abruptly to £178,491 in
1953, when a couple of points were clipped
off the div., reducing it to 6 p.c., which
called for £61,490 more profit than was
claimed that year—an indication of the
board’s belief that the worst of the co.’s
troubles were then on the way out.
Helped by import-restrictions, and other
things, the swollen stocks of distributors
were much reduced by the time the books
were ruled off in 1953, and D.H.A.’s out-
put and sales strengthened as the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
advanced, though competition from
overseas remained very keen. The in-
creasing prescription of ethical products
by the medical profession, and pharma-
ceutical benefits under the National
Health scheme, were important factors
contributing to the recovery in sales.
Imports of drugs and medical
preparations for the year to June
30, 1954, increased by over 50 p.c.,
and again stock-values had to be written
down, “but not nearly on the same scale
as in 1953,” to keep them in line with
overseas prices.
The surprising feature is that the group
was able to show £267,397 more profit at
£445,888, which was £2259 in excess of
the 1951 figure. Among other things, it
suggests that the writing-down of stock-
values in 1953 was pretty thorough on
most lines. Of the £267,397 in-
crease, £41,038 was in respect of over-
provision for taxation in 1953 ; the bal-
ance was mainly the result of increased
turnover, steadier raw materials and oper-
ating costs, and prompt tightening of out-
lets following a reorganisation of the
undertaking:
Drug Houses and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends— Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.f
£. £ £ £ £
1951 443,629 6000 8i p.c. =285,707 151,922 2,201,588
Share premiums, £157,394 .. ..2,358,982
From tax reserve, £68,415 .. .. 2,427,397
Unexplained additions, £49,828 .. 2,477,225
1952 366,491 6000 8 p.c.=299,755 60,736 2,537,961
Written off intangibles, £595 .. 2,537,366
Profit sale property, £19,813 .. 2,557,179
Tax overprovided, £3573 .. .. 2,560,752
Unexplained additions, £33,508 .. 2,594,260
1953 178,491 6000 6 p.c.=233,981 2,532,770
Written off intangibles, £567 .. .. 2,533,337
Tax overprovided, etc., £41,038 . . 2.574,375
Profit sale assets, £1998 .. .. 2,576,373
Unexplained additions, £657 .. . .2,07i,030
1954 445,888 6000 7ip.c.=293,601 146,287 2,723,317
* After deducting outsiders’ interest. f Subject to
intangibles, now £1,165,819.
After paying the pref. div. (£6000), the
balance of the year’s profit was 11.2 p.c.
on the £3,914,687 of ord. capital as
against 4.4, 9.6, 13.0, 10.6 and 7.2 p.c.
back to 1949. The div. was lifted from
6 p.c. to 7f p.c., the final being at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a.; and it is doubtful
whether better than 8 p.c. need be ex-
pected for a while. The £146,287 that
remained lifted reserves to £2,723,317,
subject to £1,165,819 of intangibles.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
mainly reflect the erection of new fac-
tories —too late to affect the year’s net
earnings— at Adelaide and Perth, pur-
chase of warehouse sites at Hobart, New-
castle and Tempe (near Sydney), con-
tinued modernisation of plant and the
revival of turnover:
D.H.A. and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £3,996,808 £3,999,687 £4,014,687
Reserves .. .. 2,537,961 2,532,770 2,723,317
Outside interests.. 1,753 3,817 2,456
Mortgages .. 44,250 49,147 79,637
Sundry creditors.. 2,137,767 1,509,996 2,077,007
Tax reserve .. 378,820 177,180 301,096
Final div. .. 299,755 233,981 156,587
£9,397,114 £8',506,578 £9,354,787
Freehold, plant, etc. 1,341,611 1,462,200 1,807,977
Shares, etc. .. 269,510 267,089 277,154
Stocks .. .. 4,387,179 3,368,804 3,613,159
Book debts .. 2,157,310 2,054,424 2,357,123
Cash, etc. .. 43,299 153,776 100,603
Suspense account.. 42,766 44,814 32,952
Excess cost shares 817,990 818,393 823,391
Goodwill, etc. .. 337,449 337,078 342,428
£9,397,114 £8,506,578 £9,354,787
The net addition to the book-value of
freehold and plant was £345,777, to
stocks (in at cost or under) £244,355, and
to book-debts £302,699. To help meet
the outlay an extra £30,490 was raised on
mortgage and £567,011 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
There was a slip of £151,959 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus, or working capital
(£3,766,644), due to the additions to fixed
assets.
To meet the growth of competition
from abroad, which calls for a reduction
in costs, attention is being given to im-
proved methods of manufacture and dis-
tribution, including more modern and
efficient equipment and a rearrangement
of warehouse and other layout along
flow-lines. The co.’s multi-storied ware-
houses in the heart of the main capital
cities are to be replaced by single-storied
units on the suburban periphery. No
estimate of the cost has been given, but
financially the programme will be largely
self-supporting through sale of city pro-
perties as they become redundant.
The group consists of parent holding
co. and eight manufacturing and twelve
merchandising subsidiaries scattered
throughout all the Australian States and
New Zealand. An offshoot in London
looks after overseas buying, and the parent
is also substantially interested (but not
to the extent of control) in four other
manufacturing concerns in Sydney and
Melbourne. The current reorganisation
of the undertaking aims at “rationalising”
manufacturing and distributing pro-
cedures, and the major operating units
have been renamed by substituting the
initials of the parent and the State or
district of operation in each case..
The co.’s performance fitted in pretty
well with market anticipations. At
31s. 9d. (31s. lid. a year ago) the f.-p.
£1 ords. return 4.7 p.c. on the basis of
last term’s distribution, or 5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. The investor who looks for
5.7 p.c. on his money counts on the div.
reaching 9 p.c., or other benefits. The 6
p.c. prefs. at 235. yield 5.2 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover is £55 14s. sd. prefs. and
275. lid. ords.
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd. (Syd.)
DESPITE growing competition from
overseas, this 18-year-old manufac-
turer of high-grade Axminster body- and
other carpets and rugs, etc., aims to cap-
ture a still bigger share of the expanding
Australian market. A battery of broad-
and small-looms, together with ancillary
plant, has been bought from the Bigelow-
Sanford Carpet Co. (U.S.), which has also
undertaken to service the equipment and
provide technical personnel. First ship-
ment of this equipment is scheduled to
arrive about the end of March next. The
price isn’t mentioned in the directors’
report, but payment is to be made in
scrip, at a premium of 15s. a unit, over
a period of 18 months.
To finance erection of new buildings,
etc., to house the plant, shareholders were
offered 115,474 new £1 shares at par on
September 30 last. That will lift paid
capital to £577,370, on which 10 p.c. will
call for £18,767 less profit than was
claimed last term.
Development has been rapid and pro-
fitable, thanks largely to sheltered and
expanding war and post-war markets, and
reserves have not been neglected. Paid
capital advanced from £72,849 in 1939
to £461,896 at the close of last accounts.
The div. climbed from a maiden 5 p.c. in
1940 to 10 p.c. in 1947 and remained
steady until 1951. It dropped to 5 p.c. in
the following year, when earnings received
a severe jolt—due to now-well-known
causes —from which a heartening re-
covery has been made, as the following
table shows:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. t Dividend N serves, serves.
£j £ £ £
1950 .. 47,673 10 p.c. = 33,659 14,014 79,491
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 77,491
1951 .. 89,607 10 p.c. = 34,642 54,965 132,456
To staff fund, £7OOO 125,456
Share premiums, £57,709 .. .. 183,165
Profit sale assets, £1286 .. .. 184,451
To taxation, £7990 .. .. .. 174,461
1952 .. 7,262 5 p.c. = 20,207 163,516
To staff fund, £396 163,120
Share premiums, £2B .. .. •• 163,148
1953 . . 59,732 9 p.c. = 41,569 18,163 181,311
' To staff fund, £5OOO 176,311
Tax overprovided, £10,940 .. .. 187,251
1954 .. 76,504 10 p.c. = 46,190 30,314 217,565
To staff fund, £9OOO 208,565
Import-restrictions and an appropriate
monetary policy adopted by the Govern-
ment and the banks provided the initial
impetus to recovery. Turnover, which
picked up as traders’ excess stocks were
reduced, was stimulated last term by the
growth in home-building and expansion
of consumer credit. Also wage-rates and
prices for raw materials —the latter, in-
cluding wool, account for nearly two-
thirds of carpet-manufacturing costs —
were comparatively steady.
After allowing for depreciation
(£42,767, up £11,271) and taxation
(£52,000, up £7500), declared net earnings
were £16,772 stronger at £76,504. That
leaves out of the figuring £10,940 over-
provided for taxation in 1953, when the
subsidiary sent along £9052 in divs.
Nothing was received from the offshoot
last term. The £76,504 of profit was 16.5
p.c. on capital employed as against 12.9,
1.8, 25.8, 14.1 and 11.2 p.c. back to
1949. A point was added to the div.,
making it 10 p.c. again, and £9OOO was
sent to the staff fund. The £21,314 that
remained lifted reserves to £208,565.
The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£100,873) improved by £31,422:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. . . £461,841 £461,896 £461,896
Reserves .. .. 170,638 183,829 208,567
Mortgage . . . . 3,333
Overdraft . . . . 243,425 100,344 110,782
Sundry creditors .. 92,708 82,974 89,369
Tax reserve . . . . 5,000 44,469 52,000
Final divs 20,207 23,095 23,095
£997,152 £896,607 £945,709
Premises .. . . 254,759 288,852 272,345
Plant 192,655 186,829 204,069
Shares subsid 93,076 93,076 93,176
Stocks 368,316 207,534 271,138
Debtors 79,824 111,794 103,976
Cash, etc 1,005 1,005 1,005
Intangibles .. .. 7,517 7,517
£997,152 £896,607 £945,709
To carry an extra £63,604 of stocks (in
at cost or market price whichever is
lower) and add £17,240 net to plant, the
co. went to its bankers for an extra
£10,438 and increased the amount coming
to sundry creditors by £6395.
The subsidiary, Sydney Woollen Mills,
Ltd., in which Carpet Manufacturers
holds 51 p.c. of the ord. capital, is ex-
panding, too. Besides carpet and other
yarns, it turns out blankets, rugs and
tweeds and does commission carbonising
as well. Last term it made a public issue
of 150,000 £l6 p.c. prefs., and doubled its
ord. capital by a one-for-one bonus share-
issue. Paid capital was thus lifted from
£98,605 to £347,210. For the year to
June 30, 1954, it netted £10,744 (down
£2880), trade being affected by a poor
winter demand for women’s tweeds, etc.,
and by overseas competition. No div!
was paid, money being wanted in the
business. Over the last four years net
earnings averaged £19,497, or sufficient to
pay a full year’s pref. div. (£9000) and
show 5.3 p.c. on ord. capital as it now
stands.
For the parent the current term has
opened well: but the subsidiary is find-
ing trade sticky, though it is still earning
profits. Overseas competition apart, the
recent easing of wool prices and pending
increase in marginal wage-rates will tend
to squeeze profit-margins a little.
The market expresses its faith in the
future of the undertaking by pricing the
parent’s f.-p. £1 ords. at 345. 6d. (295. 6d.
a year ago) to return 5.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Including the new capital, net
tangible cover is 275. 2d.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
"D ECORD business was transacted last
term by this manufacturing, import-
ing and merchandising organisation,
whose progress over recent years has been
surprisingly rapid and profitable. Manu-
facturing activities, based mainly on Mel-
bourne, include Healing bicycles, Golden
Voice radios, Thor washing-machines, and
vacuum-cleaners, batteries, etc. The co.
also holds local and overseas agencies
covering a wide range of components in
the automotive, refrigeration, radio and
other electrical-appliance trades. Future
plans include the manufacture of tele-
vision-sets under licence from the Du
Mont Co. (U.S.). Work on laying-
out the co.’s radio- and television-
factory is expected to be under way by
June, 1955, and production of the first
units by the end of the year.
Turnover at £6,627,000 for 1953-54
was the highest yet recorded, and is 21.1
p.c. up on the previous year. For the
first quarter of the current term the chair-
man reports a further improvement in
sales. However, competition is now being
felt “very strongly,” and the increased
business is being written on a narrowed
margin of profit.
Earnings have been noticeably suscept-
ible to general economic conditions:
A. G. Healing and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends \
, Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 15 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ p
1950.. 185,876 5984 3012 56,185 120,695 744,551
To staff fund, £14,161 .. .. 780,390
Unexplained additions, £24,526 .. 754,916
1951.. 273,968 5984 3012 58,125 206,847 961,763
To staff fund, £15,411 .. .. 946,352
Proceeds sale assets, £12,946 ..959,298
Unexplained reductions, £5946 .. 953,352
1952.. 208,758 5984 3012 58,125 141,637 1,094,989
To staff fund, £12,501 .. .. 1,082,488
Intangibles appear, £8325 .. ..1,074,163
Profit sale assets, £4296 . . . . 1,078,459
Unexplained additions, £6346 .. 1,084,405
1953.. 139,471 5984 3012 106,875 23,600 1,108,405
To staff fund, £13,019 .. .. 1,095,386
Profit sale assets, £9528 .. .. 1,104,914
Unexplained additions, £23,613 . . 1,128,527
1954.. 177,499 5984 3012 106,875 61,628 1,190,155
To staff fund, £17,755 .. .. 1,172,400
* After deducting intangibles, now £l.
Last year’s profit was written after pro-
viding £95,400 (up £23,100) for taxation
and £64,743 (down £19,379) depreciation.
It was £38,028 better than the 1953 figure,
but £96,469 short of the peak profit of
1951. After paying the pref. charges
(£8996), the balance of the year’s profit was
23.6 p.c. on ord. capital, as against 18.3,
51.5, 68.3, 47.2, 43.7 and 57.6 p.c. back to
1948. The lushness of these ratios
owes much to the size of the
reserves. On total shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) last year’s


The name is
(O c Ccdlums
the whisky is
tf'Callunj's
Scots CUhisky
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC2I/3.Z
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Fty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3446. BU 3446, BU 1409.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .... 2/-
Yearly [<L .. 22/6
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
Providing profit-
able protection
for policyhold-
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
Urti
!«in
fun
H!U
UHffl
■■ill
Every Year
a Boi
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'lcl 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
profit was 8.8 p.c., compared
with 7.2 p.c. in 1952-53 and
13 p.c. for 1951-52.
To offset the effects of the
down-trend in selling-prices and
up-trend in costs, albeit at a
slower pace, the co. has sought
an increased share of the market
by expanding distributing outlets,
now located in every State, and
additional plant has been
installed to quicken the output
of the co.’s existing manufac-
tures.
During the year £282,476 was
added to the overdraft, sundry
creditors rose £107,290, and loans
on mortgage and balances out-
standing on property-deals were
up £217,713. The increase in
external indebtedness financed
additions to freeholds and lease-
holds (up £68,913), plant (up
£52,474), inventories (up
£126,282) and book-debts (up
£302,691). At June 30 there
was 235. lid. of outside money
in the business for every £1
belonging to shareholders :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £837,500 £837,500
Reserves .. .. 1,103,033 1,172,401
Overdraft . . .. 917,413 1,199,889
Mortgages, etc. .. 311,250 528,963
Sundry creditors . . 564,231 671,521
Tax provision .. 291,240 147,840
Provident fund .. 6,088 15,921
Final div. .. 111,373 111,373
£4,142,128 £4,685,408
Freehold and lease-
hold .. . . 639,042 707,955
Plant, etc. . . 266,207 318,681
Stocks .. .. 2,113,440 2,239,722
Book debts . . 1,105,709 1,408,400
Investments and cash 10,083 10,649
Intangibles .. 7,647 1
£4,142,128 £4,685,408
The issue, since close of
accounts, of £175,000 in £1 6 p.c.
prefs. will provide additional
funds for expansion at a time
when the banking system is
tightening-up credit-extension.
At 16s. 6d. (13s. 9d. a year ago)
the f.-p. ss. ords. return 4.5 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The £1
8 p.c. and 6 p.c. prefs. at 295. 3d.
and 21s. 6d. yield 5.4 p.c. and
5.6 p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover is £l6 Is. 6d. prefs. (both
classes rank equally for capital)
and 13s. 3d. ords.
Eroken HiSI South, Ltd.
T}bß the year to June 30 last
the South and its wholly-
owned subsidiary, Barrier
Central Pty., crushed more high-
grade ore at less cost per ton,
and the allowance for taxation
and royalties was lower. But the
gains in these respects failed to
offset the effects of the drop in
metal prices, and there was a slip
of £224,481 in net earnings.
Yet the div. was lifted from
120 p.c. to 130 p.c., thanks to
the improved outlook and
strengthening of prices in world
metal markets toward and since
the close of accounts: —
Re-
Jne., Profit.* , Dividends serves.t
£ p.c. £ £
’52. .1,516,524 160 = 1,280,000 3,598,366
Sale leases, £700,000 .. 4,298,366
Long-leave, £200,000 .. 4,098,366
Add adjustments, £6583 .. 4,104,949
’53. .1,543,790 120= 960,000 4,688,739
Capital profit, £8362 .. 4,697,101
Long-leave, £70,000 .. 4,627,101
Add adjustments, £27,137 .. 4,654,238
’54. .1,319,309 130 = 1,040,000 4,933,547
* After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests.
t Not including depreciation reserve,
£2,359,882 at 30/6/’54.
The £1,319,309 of profit was
written after allowing £162,046
(up £9860) for depreciation and
£690,358 (down £152,842) for
taxation and royalties. It was
equal to 164.9 p.c. on the
£BOO,OOO of share-capital as
gainst 192.9 p.c. and 189.5 p.c.
fSt the two preceding years.
That leaves out of the reckoning
items interlined in the table. So
nothing had to be strained when
the div. was lifted from 6s. to
6s. 6d. per ss. share. The gross
return from investments was
£380,147 (down £16,796), equal
to 47.5 p.c. on capital.
Crude ore treated by each co.
in the South’s mill, and its head-
value, compares as follows:
r~ Assay \
Crudes, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
South—
-1953 .. 233,896 12.4 C. 9 10.9
1954 .. 272,670 12.1 6.4 10.5
Central—
-1953 . . 59,082 12.0 9.3 11.0
1954 .. 82,620 12.6 10.2 11.8
Total feed last term was thus
355,290 tons (up 62,314 tons), of
which nearly 77 p.c. was drawn
from the South’s leases.
In the aggregate 51,558 tons
of lead concentrates were pro-
duced, containing 40,775 tons
(up 6489 tons) lead and
2,324,1150 z. (up 343,1780 z.)
silver, and 65,498 tons of
zinc concentrates, containing
33,217 tons (up 5282 tons) zinc
and 135,5660 z. (up 45,7860 z.)
silver. The lead concentrates are
smelted at Port Pirie and the
metal is sold on both local and
overseas markets. The zinc
concentrates are sold to Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co.
Mine working and treatment
costs per ton of crude ore were
£8 os. 4d. (down 21s. 7d.) South
and £9 Is. 3d. (down 365. 6d.)
Central. The reductions were
due mainly to the bigger tonnages
handled. Another contributing
factor was a shrinkage of 235. Bd.
in the average weekly lead-bonus
(£ll 7s. 3d.) paid to employees.
Average yearly payment (wages
plus lead bonus) per employee
was £1517.
Average prices received per
ton of metal sold during the
year were lead £lO7 Is. lOd.
(down £4 15s. 6d.) and zinc
£92 (down £l2). Silver
remained steady at 7s. 6d. an
ounce. In London lead averaged
£S97 Bs. Id. and zinc
£S7B 2s. 4d. for the three months
to Sept. 30, 1954. On December
28 the figures were lead £SIO4,
zinc £SB3 10s. No sharp reces-
sion in metal prices is antici-
pated at an early date. The co.
is therefore expected to show a
better profit at next balance.
Measured ore reserves at June
30 last were conservatively put
at 1,926,000 tons (down only
61,000 tons), equal to about
years’ work for the mill at last
term’s rate of throughput. How-
ever, the remaining life of the
mine is not expected to exceed
eight to 10 years.
The co. is therefore on the
hunt for major new deposits of
lead, zinc or copper. It is jointly
interested with North Broken
Hill in the Oceana lead-silver
mjne at Zeehan (Tas.), where
milling of ore from a body of
moderate dimensions began in
July last. At the Conrad lead-
silver-copper mine, near Inverell
(N.S.W.), production on a small
scale is scheduled to begin early
in 1955. Here narrow ore-bodies
have been proved down to 875 ft.,
present lowest level. At Mt.
Elliott (Q.) some copper ore-
bodies are being tested by
diamond-drilling.
Next table shows the co.’s
financial strength. No large
capital expenditure is con-
templated :
B.H. South and Subsidiaries.
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £BOO,OOO £BOO,OOO
Reserves . . 4,688,739 4,933,547
Depreciation . . 2,286,920 2,359,882
Outside interests 468,419 540,531
Overdraft . . 1,455,557 3,049
Sundry creditors 1,098,318 1,126,997
Tax provision, etc.* 1,366,631 1,115,901
Pinal div. .. 480,000 560,000
Total . . £12,644,584 £11,439,907
Freeholds, etc.f 1,020,757 1,018,084
Plant, etc. . . 3,300,237 3,324,478
Investments .. 3,303,212 3,452,186
Current assets .. 5,020,378 3,645,159
Total .. £12,644,584 £11,439,907
* Includes provision for long-service leave
and contingencies.
t Includes leaseholds and No. 7 mine
shaft.
For the investor the two most
important features there are the
excess of current assets over
current liabilities, which amounts
to £6,291,398, or 395. 4d. per
share, and the big investment
portfolio, which has a book-
value equal to 21s. 7d. per share,
and is worth a lot more. Of the
investments, £1,065,177 is repre-
sented by shares listed on the
Stock Exchanges, and their
market-value in October last
exceeded their book-value by
about £1,100,000. And the
£2,377,009 of unlisted securities
are worth more than their book-
value, too, the chairman says.
During 1954 the price of the
co.’s own f.-p. ss. shares, which
largely follows the market for the
metals, fluctuated between 545.
and 70s. 6d. At the close of the
year the figure stood at 68s. 3d.,
giving a return of 9.5 p.c. on a
130 p.c. div. basis.
The Tariff Board has recom-
mended the Government to
reject any claim by Australian
copper-producers for protection
by way of tariff-duty or bounty
while the price of the red metal
remains at or above £A2SO per
ton. The Copper Producers’
Association had asked for duties
on imported copper to give a
local price of at least £A32O per
ton. The domestic price, fixed at
£A3IO per ton on September 6
last, was decontrolled in Octo-
ber, since when it has risen to
£A3SO per ton, which is approxi-
mately in line with overseas
markets. The board has, how-
ever, recommended that a duty
of £4 a ton be imposed on refined
copper—both refined and unre-
fined copper are now admitted
free under Customs by-law—im-
ported from all sources. Because
of lack of refining-capacity in
Australia, Mt. Isa has exported
thousands of tons of blister
copper for refining, and re-
imported the refined copper for
sale in Australia. The board
also said that it was doubt-
ful whether Mt. Isa and Mt.
Morgan would have asked for
assistance had it not been for
the position of Mt. Lyell, which
is working a very low-grade
deposit, and which asked for
special assistance to ensure a
price of £A34O a ton.
Faith in the
Future
Things have been going well for us here in
Australia. There is full employment. People enjoy
a greater measure of general prosperity than ever
before.
That is good. But if we take time to reflect,
we see that our standards depend wholly on the
strength of the national economy.
In exports our chief “bread-winner” is wool,
which brought £37 million less at auction this year
than in 1953.
The fluctuation in wool prices is an ever-
present problem. That’s why I would urge higher
efficiency in ALL our industries, primary and
secondary, as the best insurance for a continuance
of good times.
Some people think of efficiency only in terms
of the wage-earner. Numerically, it does rest
chiefly on the employee; for a nation can only
increase its efficiency to the extent that the
individual in industry adds to his efficient strength.
But the responsibility is no less on management
to see that Australia attains to more and better
production.
At the moment there is an acute shortage of
■manpower. More than 60,000 registered jobs are
going unfilled. This brake on efficiency can be
eased by immigration, and by wider mechanisation.
Along with the scarcity of labour goes a short-
age of “finance-power”—investment. That factor
also must be borne in mind when considering the
needs of the future.
The two, in conjunction, mean “work-power,”
and in that you have the key to this country’s
development.
I believe that the next 25 years will unfold an
amazing story in Australia’s progress; let us not
under-estimate it, or ourselves.
Whatever we achieve is going to be done by
Work —well-directed and work faithfully and
efficiently carried through.
H. Hastings Deening


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
This time last year it was regretted that
the housewife’s hopes of cheaper milk
and better bread had not been realised
in 1953, and now, with 1955 here, the
housewives are still hoping. During the
past year coffee went up in price and
coffee-drinkers changed over indignantly
to tea. Then tea went up, and there was
a rush back to coffee. It is to be hoped
that this is not the beginning of a zigzag
movement for 1955.
☆ ☆ ☆
What is 1954 memorable for? The
Queen’s visit, of course, and how every-
body stared, but it turned out later that
Sydney people did not stare nearly as
much as people in other places (except
Dunedin, N.Z., where they didn’t stare
at all ); and how some folk thought
Sydney decorations were gay and striking
and others thought them garish and
tawdry, which shows what an individu-
alistic people we are ; and how houses
that hadn’t seen a paintbrush since
Federation were slicked-up, with the
result that the city is gradually acquiring
a “new look” ; and how people were so
scared of dense traffic on the morning of
the Qqeen’s arrival that they stayed home
and came streaming into the city later
in response to messages over radio and
telephone, “Come on in, there’s plenty of
room” ; how it was said that Melbourne
women stole the sartorial honors during
the visit and Canberra the social honors,
but Sydney people knew that there was
nothing to compare with Our Harbor on
that sunny morning of early February,
when the Queen first set foot in Aus-
tralia.
☆ ☆ ☆
What did we talk about during 1954?
There was the Liquor Report, of course
(what a long time it was coming out,
what a squib it proved when it did come
out, why the Government didn’t take
steps), all about the referendum (how
first of all “six-o’clock” had it and then
suddenly it was “ten-o’clock,” why you
can’t get bottled-beer at Christmas, etc.,
etc. This is a topic of conversation which,
regrettably, is likely to occupy at least
the second page of the newspapers for
many a long day to come.
☆ ☆ ☆
Among the other things we talked
about were the baby-kidnappings at the
beginning of the year, one from St. Mar-
garet’s hospital and the other by trickery,
and how they were not for money, but
because the kidnappers “always wanted
a baby.” There was another saddening
year of litigation regarding the Murray-
Mace baby ; and the world watched the
story of Isabella Patino and James Gold-
smith, who eloped to Scotland followed
by her angry father: how they at last
won their parents’ consent; how their
baby was born, and Isabella died.
We also talked about the Petrovs and
Jimmy Carruthers’s tapeworm, and how
Jimmy retired from being a boxing
champion and bought a hotel; about
planter-hats and barrel-jackets and ear-
rings ; about Shirley Beiger; about plans
for an opera-house ; about uranium, and
how it might possibly be in our own
backyard; about French films, and
Florence Desmond’s farewell in Sydney
to a wonderful career; about Walter
Gropius and whether houses should have
“the floating look.”
And there was Elizabeth Northcott’s
wedding, and talk, too, about Dame Sybil
Thorndike’s voice and personality, Sybil
Connolly’s lovely Irish clothes; about
Dame Flora Macleod, and what a lot of
people there are in Sydney who can play
the bagpipes (is this a sign of decadence
or the reverse?); and about all those
American entertainers, Artie Shaw, Lou
Armstrong, Johnny Ray, etc., who have
been swooping down on the Stadium at
short intervals, giving forth each accord-
ing to his kind, and then flying off again,
much richer, if no wiser. We also talked
about the Davis Cup and how we were
sure to retain it—and the men talked
about Gipsy Rose Lee.
☆ ☆ ☆
Palm Beach has filled-up for the
January holidays (they always start,
really, with the Pacific Club’s New Year’s
Eve Party). Among the “regulars” are
Mr. and Mrs. Reg Gaskell, with their
children Caroline and David, and with
Mr. and Mrs. Chip Hill, of Quirindi,
and their daughter Adrien as guests. Mr.
and Mrs. Neville Goodall have Mr. and
Mrs. Bill Fenner, of Adelaide, staying
with them, and another Adelaide visitor
is Mrs. Bill McGregor, house-guest of
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Copeland. Mr. and
Mrs. Peter Spender and Mr. and Mrs.
David Pratten are also Palm-Beaching.
Two popular New Year’s Eve parties
were those given by Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
McWilliam and by Mr. and Mrs.
Rudolph Mueller, when the still, warm
evening, the view of the beaches and
headlands, • the lovely rooms and the
open aspect made welcoming the New
Year as joyful as possible.
Several Australian women whose ser-
vices have been recognised by the Queen
received the Order of the British Empire
(officers) in the New Year bestowal of
honors. They include Lady Lloyd Jones
(social-welfare services), Miss Doris
Fitton (services to the theatre), Miss
Jane McLeod (social-welfare), Mrs. K.
Sandover (public- and social-welfare
services).
Members of the British Empire
include Mrs. Elizabeth Bailey (for
philanthropic and social-welfare ser-
vices), Mrs. Moya Bailey (Dr. Blackall,
noted Canberra medical-practitioner),
Miss Marjorie Blaxland (social-welfare
services under Red Cross), Mrs. Annie
Book (charitable work), Mrs. Catherine
Cameron (educational and social-welfare
services), Miss Annie Crome (public and
social-welfare services), Miss Evelyn
Evans (general-secretary of the Australian
Physiotherapy Association), Miss Rhoda
Felgate (services to cultural movements),
Mrs. Charlotte Jackson (services to
patriotic and charitable movements),
Mrs. Eileen Johnston (services for Red
Cross and other welfare-organisations),
Miss Lily Taylor (social- and welfare-
work, especially for ex-servicemen).
Miss Pat Gregory, who is perhaps the
most famous of Australia’s women-
skaters, is appearing in two shows in
Sydney at present, “Puss in Boots on Ice”
at matinees and “Rose Marie on Ice” at
the night performances, both at the
Empire Theatre. Pat (in 1947 ) was the
first Australian to win the International
Gold Medal for figure-skating since new
tests were introduced in 1941, and has
starred in pantomimes on ice and in “Rose
Marie” in London.
A charity for the New Year is the
club and night-refuge for aged and desti-
tute women which the Daughters of
Charity hope to establish in Sydney. The
Daughters of Charity, who wear the
distinctive “butterfly” head-dress, are
known to those they help as “The White
Wings that never grow weary,” and to
the poor and distressed they bring
cheerfulness and laughter as well as
material help. To provide a hot meal for
aged women, to give them a place for
recreation and rest, is now their aim, and
if there are funds enough they will also
establish a night-refuge for these aged
women similar to that conducted by the
Daughters of Charity near Westminster
Cathedral in London. Donations are
tax-free.
☆ ☆ ☆
Note on the drama in London from
Robin Lovejoy, recently returned and
looking forward now to producing for
the National Opera Company: “The
most popular type of play in London is
drawing-room drama. They’re still play-
ing Lonsdale, but the cucumber-
sandwiches have now been replaced by
cups of coffee. The rattle of coffee-cups
on the stage in London nearly had me
crawling up the walls!”
MELBOURNE
For their many years of service in
nursing and hospital administration three
women have received well-deserved recog-
nition in the Queen’s New Year’s honors-
list.
Well-known for her unselfish devotion
to the work of the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital, Mrs. H. R. Hamer has been
rewarded with the 0.8. E. Twenty-eight
years ago Mrs. Hamer joined the hospital-
committee; she is now senior vice-presi-
dent. For many years she has also worked
for the Victorian Children’s Aid Society,
of which she is a vice-president. Mrs.
Hamer has three sons and one daughter
and eleven grandchildren. The daughter,
Mrs. Finlay Patrick, is an assistant-lec-
turer at the University.
Matron G. Burbridge, of Fairfield Hos-
pital, also received the 0.8. E. She trained
at the Royal Melbourne Hospital, then
went to the Alfred Hospital as tutor-sister.
In 1939 she went to Fairfield as matron.
She did post-graduate work in England
and has written three text-books on nurs-
ing. Matron Burbridge is also on the
executive-committee of the Melbourne
School of Nursing, and is censor-in-chief
of the Australian College of Nursing.
Lieut.-Col. E. J. Bowe received the
award of the Royal Red Cross, formerly
deputy to Miss A. M. Sage, she assumed
cohtrol of the Royal Australian Nursing
Corps when Miss Sage retired in 1952.
Matron Bowe saw service in England, the
Middle East and in Australia during the
last war, and since her appointment as
Matron-in-Chief has visited Army sisters
serving in various hospitals in this country
and has made several trips to units in
Japan and Korea.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the gayest of New Year’s Eve
parties was that at Chevron, with 300
there. Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus
entertained a large party at dinner, the
hostess wearing black French-brocade
colorfully patterned with bullion-thread.
Mrs. S. Aarons chose a short black Chan-
tilly-lace frock mounted on a palest-blue
satin. Mrs. Frank Christie’s parchment
moire-taffeta frock had the rounded-neck-
line outlined with rhinestones. Mrs. C.
Bolthober allied a black-satin skirt with a
bodice of white guipure-lace. Mrs. Her-
man Bruner (a visitor from the U.S.) wore
a ballerina frock of cyclamen tulle, Mrs.
Ralph Barnes a full-skirted frock of black
taffeta, and Miss P. Knight’s white satins
were patterned in a floral design.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a time when cotton was the
Cinderella of fabrics, but now it is almost
as popular as silk. With months of warm
weather still ahead, a pretty cotton frock
will go anywhere—on the beach, to a
cocktail-party, or to an informal dance.
Samples of lovely and unusual cottons
have arrived from the Sydney salon of
Beril Jents, and in their design and weav-
ing original effects have been achieved.
One of the prettiest among them is
a jacaranda-blue cretonne embroidered in
a white wire-pattern with the several lines
of white knotting in the corners and
forming a square. Another, as soft as
silk, is in a brown snakeskin-design. Most
attractive is a fine white pique, its sur-
face broken here and there with a flower
woven in fine black crinoline-straw. A
light brown cotton looks deceptively like
guipure lace, but it is woven from hemp,
is cut into the design and then appliqued
on beige linen.
A most unusual wine-red cotton is
criss-crossed with sparkling aluminium in
the same rich shade. There is also a
heavy beige linen patterned with white
eyelet embroidery; a light brown linen
patterned with a trail of white embroid-
ery, and cotton-lace in shades of ink-blue
and brilliant emerald-green.
☆ ☆ ☆
That evergreen old lady “Charley’s
Aunt” is on again at the Comedy Theatre,
with William Hodge giving a rollicking
performance in the part of Aunty. The
audience, in holiday mood, dressed for
the occasion in ballerina- or cocktail-
frocks. Outstanding was Mrs. Royden
Honeyman’s bouffant ballerina frock of
black, silver-threaded nylon. Mrs. Dan
Reddan dressed formally in a gown of
rose-pink French-crepe, with the bodice
featuring an off-the-shoulder line. The
short evening-frock worn by Joan Cun-
liffe was of heavy white faille and had an
unusual trimming on bodice, hemline and
sleeves of tiny white silk tassels with gilt
tops ; the full skirt also had the tassels
set in circular motifs. Margot Henry
wore a bouffant floral-cotton ballerina,
Virginia Parris a white nylon blouse and
a full skirt of black faille. Mrs. M. J.
Clarke’s taffeta frock was in slate-blue
tonings, Mrs. Humphrey Beecher’s was
checked in pink-and-beige. Irene
Mitchell’s ballerina frock was of black-
and-white-striped taffeta; Elizabeth
Taylor wore with her full-skirted white
, linen frock an emerald-green linen stole.
Mrs. Alyson Syme, chosen by the Vic-
torian Furniture Industries to do special
decor at the Ideal Home Show which
opens at the Exhibition Building on
February 18, is one of this city’s best-
known freelance interior-decorators. She
returned recently after having spent two
years studying decor and architecture in
America, Europe and Britain. At the
Ideal Home Show Mrs. Syme will do
two dining-rooms, two bedrooms and two
living-rooms, three of the rooms to be
furnished in the contemporary mode, the
other three with the most popular furni-
ture sold today in retail-stores. As could
be expected, Mrs. Syme is fond of home-
crafts, especially cooking, and she also
finds time to work’ on the committee of a
large public hospital. Spencer Shier photo.
New Year’s Day weather was ideal for
watching the Test cricket. Most popular
choice, of headwear chosen by girls were
little white cotton cricket-hats or -caps.
Lady Bradman, who was with her son
John, chose a pale-pink linen frock and
a wide-brimmed white straw hat. In the
official enclosure Lady Herring sat with
Mrs. Keith Tolhurst. Mrs. T. T. Hollway,
wearing a grey-and-white-checked cotton
frock and small white hah was with Mrs.
Max Little, who was hatless and wore a
tangerine linen frock and pale-yellow
cardigan.
Noticed, too, were Mr. and Mrs. Ross
Grey Smith, Mrs. Massey Burnside and
Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs. John Rodd
with small son Michael and daughter
Diana, Mrs. A. E. Head and her daughter
Mrs. Dick Noone (she in a pale-blue sun-
dress) and granddaughter Anne Noone.
Mrs. Geoffrey Watson, of Moama
(N.S.W.), was accompanied by her
daughter Jennifer. With Mrs. lan Bayles,
of Nagambie, was her son Alastair.
* ☆ ☆
New Year’s Day racing at Flemington
was pleasant and uncrowded, for many of
the usual racegoers were either away for
the school-holidays or at the Test. One
of the smartest ensembles was worn by
Mrs. Ray Joseph. Of powder-blue shark-
skin, it was cut on slim, tailored lines.
With it was worn a stole lined in navy
to match the large navy crinoline-straw-
and-tulle picture-hat.
Lady Dixon wore a frock and jacket
in grey silk spotted in white and a black
straw hat. Mrs. A. G. Silk’s frock was
of white embossed-cotton and her small
white hat was trimmed with a white rose.
Iris Vincent-Smith also chose the all-
white ensemble.
Lady Lienhop wore a forest-green silk-
tweed suit and small white hat. Mrs.
Bowen Allen’s outfit was outstanding.
With a very wide skirt of black Italian-
strawcloth she wore a white silk blouse
leopard-spotted in black; Mrs. Fred
Hardy’s white polished-cotton frock
striped in lime and black was worn with a
white straw beret.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Between
Ourselves
X
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Rose Marie on Ice”
One might be pardoned for
having thought that “Rose
Marie” was put safely on the ice
a long time ago ; but here it is,
taken off the ice, as it were, to
be put on the ice at Sydney
Empire. And if that sounds a
little mixed, it is nowhere near
as complicated as the mixture of
skating, variety and musicomedy
which Armand Perren has
whipped together under the title
of “Rose Marie on Ice.”
“Rose Marie, I love you,”
sings someone, and everybody
promptly skids about like
delighted penguins in a flurry of
slurring blades and showers of
ice ; or “I’m always dreaming of
you,” sings someone else, and the
ladies of the chorus, disguised as
rather full-bosomed and broad-
beamed Mounties, glide and
whirl around the place like so
many puffed-up robin-red-
breasts ; or “You come weeth
Wanda,” says Pat Gregory with
a wicked gleam in her eye, and
the stageful of skaters take-off
like illuminated totem-poles, with
Miss Gregory flashing around
and through them with all the
speed and grace of anything, if
there is anything, that can flash
about with all the speed and
grace of Miss Gregory.
Since anything seems to go in
these goings-on, one is not really
surprised when the Maxwells
interrupt and slowly, tiredly, go
through some dexterous,
Herculean acrobatics on ice; or
when four Mounties, apparently
on a jag or something, skedaddle
about the ice like a quartet of
intoxicated seals; or when Kenny
Lamb, as Rose Marie’s parent
after taking one over the eight,
does a delightful skittering little
dance on the ice, looking rather
like an exuberantly chirpy willie-
wagtaii; or when the scene
suddenly shifts to a haunted
cellar where a demented ghost
beats-out a frenzied “Totem Tom
Tom” on a phosphorescent
xylophone.
And so forth, and more of it,
with, somewhere in the proceed-
ings, the lovely Wanda sticking a
knife between Black Eagle’s
shoulder blades, with young Jim
Kenyon being blamed for the
dastardly deed and pursued by
the Mounties, with Rose Marie
on the brink of marrying the
scoundrelly Edward Hawley to
save honest young Jim, and with,
of course, the young lovers every
so often hooting the “Indian
Love Call” across hill and valley
to each other like a couple of
musical wolves.
The present commentator,
having skated once and for all
some years ago and sworn there-
after to have nothing to do with
ice except in drinks, is hardly
in a position to appraise the
merits of the evening’s skating.
It seemed, however, that all of
them—and particularly Pat
Gregory, Britta Rahlen, Reg
Park, Kenny Lamb and Joe
Whitehouse did so many
suicidal things at such breathless
speeds that if they tried them
outside the theatre they would
promptly be run-in for dangerous
driving, with nary a hope of
getting-off except, perhaps, on a
plea of beauty and public
interest.
-tj* £«
“Charley’s Aunt”
Melbourne had to get through
the holiday season as best it
could with two pantos —
“Aladdin” at the Princess and
“Jack and Jill” at the Tivoli.
J. C. Williamson added
“Charley’s Aunt” at the Comedy,
and what an excellent farce
it is! Written in 1892 by
Brandon Thomas, it has been
playing somewhere or other in
the world ever since, and will
probably go on living for ever,
and without growing whiskers.
The venerable antiquity is
being played with reverential
correctness and great vigor by
William Hodge and others.
The Princess’s Aladdin is
Ursula Irving, who has a well-
“Did you do that ?”
proportioned figure, and its
Dame is Eddie Edwards, whose
laughter is infectious. It is an
ornate production, but not more
so than the Tivoli show, whose
Simple Simon is Roy Barbour.
❖ ❖
“Coconut Grove”
“Coconut Grove,” at Sydney
Tivoli, is smooth and lively holi-
day fare, well-dressed, -produced
and -rehearsed, even if it lacks
novelty. The star, David Hughes,
talented and ornamental, comes
up with some very dusty
numbers, “Old Man River”
among them.
Max Reddy is funny and sad
at the right times and does the
old actor reminiscing quite as
well as this familiar act has been
done here in the past; the Bal-
combes do their inspired ladder-
balancing again; and Warren,
Latona and Sparks give a brief
but vigorous apache-dance.
With Harry Jacobson at the
piano, a “straight” (and very
popular) violinist, Jan Van Dyke,
the skilful Tivoli ballet, two
soubrettes and some comedy
turns, the bill adds up to
a night’s light entertainment.
Artists by Artists
Seen in mass at the National
Gallery, Melbourne, the “Artists
by Artists” exhibition is surpris-
ingly disappointing. Melbourne,
at least, is well represented by
the self-portrait of Max
Meldrum, probably the best
souvenir of himself that artist
has left on record—it could stand
without blushing alongside the
Rembrandt self-portrait in the
gallery adjacent, though there
isn’t the same quality in his
portrait of John Farmer.
A. D. Colquhoun’s portrait of
Amelie Colquhoun and of him-
self standing behind her has
some distinction, though a trifle
photographic. With the excep-
tion of Dobell, the Sydney
examples are either photographic
or illustrative, like Henry
Hanke’s portrait of himself.
Russell Drysdale’s picture of
Donald Friend and John Pass-
more’s of Arthur Freeman are
ordinary illustration. Dobell
raises the standard with his
portraits of Margaret Olley, Sir
Charles Lloyd Jones, James
Cook and Elaine Haxton.
An inexplicable omission is the
Justus Jorgensen self-portrait —
one of the few Australian
pictures in the possession of the
Melbourne Gallery that has the
universal quality of the
Rembrandts.
F. S.
♦> ♦>
Student Show
The final results of the year’s
work by students are hanging
at the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne, and show a remarkable,
if not profound, change in the
methods of teaching in the
school over which Barnie Hall
so long presided.
A strictly academic teacher,
Hall insisted on the student
doing what he said and not what
the student fancied, just as he
insisted on the student learning
the fundamentals of his craft by
hard practice. The rule now
appears to be to give the student
a few lessons in the convention
of life-class drawing and then
encourage him to indulge in
“free” expression.
The results have shocked even
the judges, who remark in their
report that “the general standard
of all work in the drawing-
section is not as high as it
should be,” which is putting it
pretty mildly.
First-prize in the landscape-
section goes to K. McFadyen
for a street seen from an
unusual angle, and second-prize
to J. Howley for a freshly
painted boat and a beach-hut.
M. Punkinson gets first-prize in
the still-life division for some
apples, wooden but nicely
colored, and C. Ockenden the
award for “painting from the
antique” with a geometrical
study which looks as if it had
been done with a ruler instead
of a paintbrush.
F. S.
Talkies
Drive-in Theatre
Another drive-in theatre,
bigger than the first, has opened
in Melbourne on the outskirts
of a huge housing-commission
project outside Preston. Flanked
on one side by a disused quarry,
by the lights of Melbourne on
the other, backed by a distant
range of mountains and roofed
by the paling hues of sunset, it
has a most peculiar effect on a
spectator inured to suffering his
entertainment in the confined
spaces of concert-halls and
theatres.
The screen is enormous, but
dwarfed by its surroundings,
and Charles Laughton, hamming
a part in “Hobson’s Choice” —
an English comedy of conven-
tional cut about a bootmaker
trying desperately to prevent his
daughters marrying beneath
them—seemed to be making a
ridiculous fuss about nothing.
The fact that most of the
thousands of suburban houses
silently surveying the picture
could probably have presented
drama and comedy more real
than that on the screen made
Mr. Laughton seem more futile
than ever. The cars assembled
in serried ranks confronted the
screen with their eyes shut and
in deathly silence. One had to
put one’s head through a win-
dow to discover that each car
was full of parents, of children
being scolded and of the sound
of Mr. Laughton’s bellowing
and shouting.
The only indication that Mr.
Laughton was getting his audi-
ence with his wisecracks was an
occasional honk from a horn,
which only accentuated the
sense of remoteness. It was like
a scene from another planet,
and if an observer on a flying-
saucer had seen it he would
never have imagined for one
moment that it was a form of
human entertainment.
M. G. S.
* ❖
“Romeo and Juliet”
Magnificently staged in ' the
superb architecture of the High
Renaissance, this very free
adaptation of Shakspeare’s
romantic story by Italian director
Renato Castellani must rank
among the best attempts yet to
screen Shakspeare. Not a false
note is struck by Laurence
Harvey as the frantic lover,
Susan Shentall as the diffident
beloved or Flora Robson as the
earthy nurse devoted to her
unsophisticated mistress.
Castellani has made a fine
film, in which Mervyn Johns’s
Friar Laurence, Norman
Wooland’s Paris, and the feud
between two great Italian families
are sharply etched against a
beautiful background in techni-
color—photographed by Aus-
tralian Robert Krasker.
At the Melbourne Grosvenor.
♦J* <£♦
“The Living Desert”
Another successful Disney
venture into the natural-history
field, this is an absorbing docu-
mentary on the lives and habits
of the many creatures which,
surprisingly, inhabit the forbid-
ding stretches of the Great
American Desert.
It must have taken immense
patience to photograph the many
battles -to - the - death between
desert enemies: tarantula and
rattlesnake, ant and wasp, hawk
and snake, kangaroo-rat and
side-winder, this last a photo-
graphic gem, capturing every
lightning move in the deadly
game in which the seemingly
defenceless rodent uses sand-
kicking, audacity and high-speed
manoeuvres to frustrate the
lidless-eyed snake.
At Sydney Paris.
❖ *l* &
“The Kidnappers”
A warm, rich humanity invests
this film about two orphaned
brothers, aged eight and five,
sent to live at the Nova Scotian
backwoods-home of their hard
and pious Scottish grandfather,
who hates his Dutch settler-
neighbors because his son had
been killed in the just-concluded
Boer War.
The film’s main charm derives
from the beautifully natural per-
formances by the children who,
starved of the affection they
crave, kidnap a neighbor’s baby
(the next-best substitute for the
dog they are forbidden to keep)
and hide it in their cubby-house,
surreptitiously feeding it and
playing with it while the district
searches.
Duncan McCrae draws a
strong portrait of the bearded,
slit-mouthed old Caledonian who,
keeps his loaded rifle slung on
the wall immediately beneath a
religious text. Jean Anderson
and Adrienne Corri are the wife
and daughter whom the tyrant
keeps under an iron-hard thumb.
At Sydney Embassy.
❖ ♦>
“Three Coins in a Fountain”
When in Rome one tradi-
tionally does as the Romans do;
and one of the things young
Romans make a habit of doing
is tossing a coin into one of the
city’s most famous fountains,
thus giving the barque of
romance a smoother voyage.
Three American girls working
in the Eternal City follow the
lead, and the effect on their
separate affaires d’amour com-
prises the light-hearted doings of
this 20th Century Fox opus,
which throws in for good
measure some splendid
Cinemascope shots of Rome and
Venice.
Excellent performances from
Clifton Webb, as an unromantic
writer of romantic novels, and
from Maggie Macnamara, Jean
Peters and Dorothy Maguire.
At Sydney Regent.


The Noisy Ditta
By M.G. Vincent
THE noisy-pitta, or dragoon-
bird, is a small fellow who
lives in the big scrubs of
the north. As he keeps
mostly to the ground in the dense
brush, he is not a familiar bird;
and, although he is brightly
colored with a yellow collar and
waistcoat setting off a blue-and-
olive jacket and red pants, the
casual tourist trotting along
scenic paths and exclaiming over
lookouts rarely sees him.
Even the people living in the
towns which have ousted the
scrubs to the mountain gorges do
not know of his existence.
Perhaps some ardent Gould-
leaguers have sighted him, pug-
naciously slaughtering snails, or
a few adult ornithologists have
tracked him down and sat for
hours observing him. The men
who work in the scrubs know
him, of course; but to many of
them he is nameless. They are
content to label him “One of
those scrub-birds.”
Knowing this, it is easy to
understand that the discovery of
him at dawn in Murchison's
backyard caused town-wide
" interest.
The night preceding his
appearance was one of extra-
ordinary violence. Not even old
Naylor could unearth from his
memory a more devastating gale.
For over a week the rain had
been sheeting down like the over-
flow from a vast reservoir ; but
during this particular night ten
inches fell in nine hours, accom-
panied by a wind so fiendishly
ferocious that even the blatant
agnostic, Horace Hebblewaite,
said a prayer when his front
porch was torn from the house
and draped like washing over his
neighbor’s wind-break of stalwart
pines.
Old Kemp’s shanty collapsed
on fop of him, but he emerged
unscathed. A sheet of iron from
Kenny’s store spun two miles
across the valley before it
shattered a skylight in the Show
pavilion. Mrs. Boxton’s second-
best corsets disappeared from the
line on her back veranda, where
she vainly had been striving to
dry them for over a week, and
were found, of all places, on the
front-steps of the Masonic
temple. She heard all about the
discovery, but made? no attempt
to claim them. Countless trees
were uprooted, thousands of
green branches littered the roads
and paddocks, and old sheds and
ramshackle lavatories collapsed.
The next morning miraculously
dawned cloudless. The sun
climbed into a sky of spun glass
which held the iridescence of the
drenched land, and on all the
undulating plateau only the roads
and streams were unclean, turgid
with mud.
Young Brock Murchison, clad
m the patched pyjamas which
had been handed down to him
from his eldest brother Clem,
via Gill, raced out to the fowl-
yard to see if his precious
bantams were still alive. He
found the dozen bantams ranged
at the rickety gate, looking first
with one eye and then with the
other at the dejected bundle of
feathers blobbed in the centre
of the path. Brock joined the
bantams in their amazed
scrutiny.
At last he bent down, and
finding that the dazed morsel
made no effort to elude him, he
picked it up and held it tenderly
in the cup of his hands. His
face was smooth with the
tranquil delight which makes
youth so pitifully vulnerable.
With one finger he gently stroked
the small head. All of the bird’s
habitual inquisitiveness had been
buffeted from him, and he
received the petting by sinking
his head a little further into his
neck-feathers.
“What’ve you got?" demanded
Clem’s voice. Brock closed his
fingers over the bird and turned
to face Clem, who was on his
way from the bails to the house
with a can of milk.
“Nothink,” said Brock.
“Come on! ” commanded
Clem, reaching for Brock’s ear.
You can’t have him. I saw
him first. I’ll tell Mum on you.
I’ll tell Netta Humphries I saw
you cuddling that Smith sheila.”
Clem began to twist the big
floppy ear, as though he were
experimenting.
Brock sniffled and opened his
hands. “He’s mine!” he
whispered. “I saw him first.”
“Christopher!” muttered
Clem. “What is it?” When Clem
made no attempt to snatch it, a
little of Brock’s joy in his dis-
covery returned and he cried
eagerly, “It’s a bird. Do you
think perhaps it’s been blown
from the zoo?”
“Sure. Sure,” said Clem
sarcastically. “Three - hundred-
and-fifty miles’d be nothing to
that giant.” He turned again
towards the house. “It’s come
from old Ma Baker’s aviary,
that’s where it’s come from.
And you better get it back to
her before the old bag starts
saying you’ve pinched it! ”
Brock trailed mournfully
behind Clem. “It hasn’t,” he
cried in a loud, indignant voice
as though by vociferous denial
he could dismiss all claims by
Mrs. Baker.
“How d’ you know? Has it
got a tag on its leg? Or did it
tell you? Ha-ha.” Clem planked
the can on the table. “You
better go and get dressed. You
have to come and help, me on
the cart. That old stringy’s
fallen on the dairy. Gill has to
help Dad.”
“I know it’s not Mrs. Baker’s
’cause every time I go there I
look in the aviary and there’s
never been a bird like this.
See.”
“Look here: You can do what
you like with the lousy bunch
of feathers. You can wear it on
your head or stutf it and bake it,
it’s all the same to me. But get
a move on. You’re coming with
me in five minutes and you can
like it or lump it.”
T>EFORE he dressed, Brock
installed the bird in a boot-
box with a tobacco-tin of water
and a mound each of rolled oats
and wheat. He could not decide
where to leave the box, and tried
several places before he finally
left it (forced to a decision by
Clem’s angry yells) in the book-
case. He felt reasonably sure
that here the bird would be safe
and undisturbed. He pulled on
trousers and coat over his
pyjamas, crying out from time
to time, “I’m coming,” and
“Here I am. Just a tick.”
Once they were perched on
the cart, Clem ceased to grumble
about Brock’s tardiness, and
began to whistle. They passed
through the gate and mudhole,
and jolted on to the bitumen of
the main road. The pony was
fresh, and gleefully whisked the
cart and its occupants down the
long, gentle sweep towards the
town.
The boys were happy. With
the hill falling abruptly away
from the built-up embankment,
it seemed as though they were
skimming over the tops of the
willows which clustered in
graceful groups in the paddocks
below. The land lay immaculate
in the sunshine, which, having
been absent for so long, was now
welcomed as a guest. Even
Brock felt gratitude and
expressed it by saying, “Jeeze,
it’s a beaut day.”
His enjoyment was short-
lived, for with a skidding of
hooves they stopped in front of
Mrs. Baker’s. Clem stared at
the big aviary, built against the
hedge of fragrant budley-trees,
but all he said was: “One pint,
and for Gorsake be careful you
don’t spill a drop. She measures
it.”
Poor Brock was so beset with
apprehension at the sight of Mrs.
Baker’s imposing aviary that
long before he reached her back-
door many drops had escaped
from the shaking-pot.. As he was
pouring the milk into the beaker,
Mrs. Baker opened the door. All
Brock could think of was the
bird, and thinking of it he was
overcome with confusion so that
he instantly looked guilty. Mrs.
Baker waited till he had finished
pouring, then she took up the
beaker from the stand and
looked into it. Her lips turned
down a little further at the
corners, so that the pale-pink
line became an inverted “U.”
“Now,” she said, like a judge
addressing the jury, “I saw you
pour that milk in. You saw me
take it. I didn’t spill any milk,
did I?”
“N-n-n-o-o-o,” stammered
Brock, completely at her mercy.
“Then,” commanded the irate
Mrs. Baker, “look into this jug!
There are the markings clearly on
the side. Now don’t breathe into
it! There’s no hope of inflating
it, and how do I know what
germs you're carrying around!
Just over three-quarters of a pint.
But I am charged for three-
quarters? No!” She advanced
her bosom three inches, and
withdrew her head slightly so
that, looking up timorously,
Brock could see only the point
of her aggressive nose. “You go
straight back to that cart, my
lad, and bring me up a quarter-
pint immediately.”
Clem was furious. “Didn’t I
tell you ...” he began. Then
broke off. “Take the old sow
up half a pint and overflow the
blasted jug.”
Brock took up half a pint.
Before the keen eyes, he filled
the jug to the brim. “There’s no
need to go beyond the pint,” she
said crisply. “Although heaven
knows you must owe me
gallons, the short measure’s been
going on so long.” She eyed
Brock coldly. “You’re much
too young to be entrusted with
the delivery of milk,” she said.
“You don’t look more than
seven.”
“I’m eight,” whispered Brock.
“Well, that’s too young. And
next time I see your father I’ll
tell him you’re too young.”
Brock mumbled hoarsely, “I
don’t come generally, but a tree
fell on the dairy and Gill’s
helping Dad.”
“Hm,” said Mrs. Baker, as
though this wasn’t much of an
excuse for sending out a mere
babe-in-arms to short-measure
her milk.
The urgency of his desire gave
Brock courage to ask the
momentous question: “You
didn’t have any accidents here,
did you?”
Mrs. Baker was incensed.
“This is a solidly-built house.
Not a ramshackle contraption.
Of course there weren’t any
accidents.”
Brock felt he was tempting
fate to mention the birds, but he
had to know one way or the
other, so he said, “I thought it
might’ve hurt the poor little
birds.”
Mrs. Baker’s face instantly
softened. “Do you like birds?”
“Yes’m.” The palms of his
hands began to perspire and his
eyes pricked.
“Well, I must say it’s very
pleasing to find a boy of your
age interested in birds. I mean
nicely interested, instead of look-
ing on them merely as catapult
targets. Have you a catapult?”
“Yes’m. But I only use it on
rabbits.”
“I’m pleased to hear it.”
Brock made another attempt.
“They look all right. The birds
I mean.”
“They’re all right. I had a
good look at the little darlings as
soon as day broke, and they’re
as good as gold.”
A rapturous smile displayed
all the gaps in Brock’s teeth.
“Gee, I’m glad,” he cried. Mrs.
Baker, confronted with such
sincere thanksgiving, actually
turned up the corners of her
lips. “I must say,” she said
magnanimously, “that I don’t
think you deliberately short-
measured me. Just be careful
it doesn’t happen again.”
“Yes’m,” said Brock,
happily . . . Leaving the door-
step he broke immediately into
a skipping run.
got into you?”
’ " demanded Clem.
“She hasn’t lost any birds.”
“Ah,” said Clem, flicking the
reins. “You’re still worrying
about that bit of fluff.”
Brock said cheekily, “You’ve
got bits of fluff on the brain.”
Clem grinned. “You want to
be careful, or I’ll clip you over
the ear.”
During the round Brock told
two people about the bird. The
first he honored was his school-
mate, Jimmy* Trent.
“Gee,” cried Jimmy, “I wish
it wasn’t hols. You could’ve
made that slimy Dickson look
sick with his tortoise. I suppose
it’ll conk out before next week.”
Brock, who had gone pale at
the thought of making a public
exhibit of his treasure, now
looked ill. “Die i” he cried,
greatly shocked. For a moment
he dwelt on the possibility of
such a calamity. “It doesn’t look
as if it’s 'dying,” he muttered.
“Just a bit knocked up sort-of.”
He felt a great desire to see and
feel the bird again. Instantly.
Perhaps there wasn’t enough air
in the bookcase or the cats might
have broken the glass and
munched the bird. He said,
“Hooroo. See you after
breakfus,” and ran swiftly to
the cart.
“What’s biting you ?”
demanded his brother.
Brock licked his lips. “Can't
we go any quicker?” he asked,
adding immediately, “D’ you
think my bird’ll die?”
“Sure thing, you goof,” said
Clem cheerfully. “It’ll turn up
its toes before the week is out.”
“It won’t!” cried Brock,
angrily, this time defying death.
“Okay, it won’t,” said Clem
agreeably. “It’ll live a hundred
years like a ruddy cockatoo.”
Brock was so anxious for
comfort, he was oblivious of the
satire. “Gee, that’s right,” he
cried joyously. “I’ll ask Netta
Humphries—if she’s up. She
knows all about birds.”
“No wonder. She’s cuckoo
herself.”
“She’s not.”
“She’s got legs like a sparrow’s,
eyes like a tomtit’s and a beak
like a parrot’s and a pigeon-
chest,” said Clem as though this
cataloguing appeased an aggra-
vating ache he refused to even
acknowledge.
With the unerring instinct of
children, Brock found the sore
spot. “You only say that because
she wouldn’t have the medley
with you at the fancy-dress ball.”
“Ha-ha. That’s a good one!
Think I’d ask her for the medley.
I’d be seen dead first.”
“Well, you did. See. I was
looking through the window
bang behind her and I saw you.
You’re nuts about her. See.”
Clem dismissed this evidence
airily. “I was j us t filling-in time.
And you listen to this —I’ve got
more sense than to be nuts about
a stuck-up little piece like her.


TUCKER&CO.
PTY. LTD.
ESTB. 1838
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
"The Brandy of Distinction "
CAPSTAN
Old Itav£
RUM
OF
THE CHOICE
ROYALTY
BITTER ALE
“.4 Popular Ale"
C=3
□
31
WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTORS OF
WHISKY
• The Preferred Whisky"
BOLS
V.O. GEN EVER
and LIQUEURS
"WORLD FAMOUS SINCE 1575"
| EACHER S
highland cream
''Perfection of
Old Scotch Wh'isty
LAGER BEER
“ Lager at its Best "
Thinks she’s too good to dance
with a milkman.”
“I’ll tell her you’re going to
be what’s-it-name to Mr. Lober
and you’re going to be a lawyer,
if you like,” offered Brock.
“You keep your mouth shut,”
commanded Clem ungratefully.
A T Humphries’, to Brock’s dis-
appointment, everyone was
in bed. He rattled the lid on his
milkpot. He whistled shrilly all
the time. At last, hope gone,
he disconsolately turned: but
spun around when he heard a
back-window squeak. He gazed
with delight on Netta.
“I found a bird in our back-
yard this morning,” he burst out
immediately, his voice jerky with
excitement. Before she had time
to speak, he gave her a breathless
description of the bird, ending
up, “What do you think it is?”
“Wel-1-1,” she said slowly, “it
sounds like a noisy-pitta or
dragoon-bird, but I don’t see how
it could be. They live on the
ground in the dense scrub.”
“Could it live to be a hundred,
do you think?”
“Heaven’s above!” cried
Netta, astounded.
Brock looked woebegone.
“Fifty, then,” he bargained.
“Really, Brock, I haven’t any
idea. But I think it extremely
unlikely.”
“Well, cockatoos live to be a
hundred,” said Brock, pug-
naciously.
“But this isn’t a cockatoo.”
Brock looked resentful. “If a
silly old cockatoo can live that
long, why can’t this what’s-its-
name?”
Netta evaded an answer by
inquiring where was he keeping
the bird and what food was he
offering to it. He told her. She
was dismayed. “Well, if you
must keep it,” she said, “you’ll
have to get a decent cage. And
if it is a dragoon-bird it lives
on snails and insects ; not wheat
and rolled oats.”
, Brock had been shuffling
around so much his pyjamas
started sliding into view, so he
began stuffing them back again
up his pants. He looked so
ludicrous Netta laughed.
After a while she said: “If I
have time I’ll come over.”
There was a hint of excitement
in her voice which escaped
Brock’s notice. He brightened
up. “Gee, that’d be great!” he
cried.
He ran back to the cart, and
as he scrambled up he told his
brother, “Netta’s going to come
and look at it.”
“You could make some dough
out of that bird if you had your
head screwed on right,” com-
mented Clem, refusing to talk
about Netta. “You could charge
admission.”
Brock took this seriously, and
was considerably alarmed at
such a prospect. He imagined
crowding, covetous faces sur-
rounding his treasure, and he
felt for the first time in his life
that nauseating fear which
assails all property-conscious
people. “It’s mine!” he cried
belligerently. “I don’t want
everyone gawking at it.”
“Okay. Okay. Keep your
shirt on,” advised Clem, amused
at his brother’s vehemence. “You
have got it bad. Worse than me,
as a matter of fact.” His eyes
lost their twinkle, and he lapsed
into a reverie which persisted for
the rest of the round.
Brock made quite a stir when
he confronted the family with
the bird. It was not a spon-
taneous action on his part, but
one forced by Netta’s advice.
“Stone the crows!” exploded
the father. “What has that kid
got hold of now ?”
The mother looked unhappy ;
not so much because of the bird,
but because she apprehended the
grief which she felt convinced
was lurking not far away. She
knew the tenderness of the boy’s
heart, and often tried to shield
him from disillusionment, in
spite of her husband’s reiterated
“He has to learn to take it.”
CHE found Brock the cage she
had used long ago for her
canaries, and she helped him find
some snails among the
geraniums. The bird took no
notice of their ministrations.
Although it stared fixedly at the
snails, it did not show any
inclination to attack and
slaughter.
“It can’t be a what’s-its-name,”
declared Brock, violently disap-
pointed.
“Perhaps it is, but it just
doesn’t feel like eating.” The
mother looked from the bird to
the boy and back again. At last
she said, “I don’t think it likes
swinging about up there. It’s
tottering a bit. Perhaps we better
put it on the ground.”
“And the cats and dogs’ll
snuffle around it.”
“Well, we’ll put it on top of
the old ice-chest.”
That’s where the cage was
when Jimmy arrived with five
schoolmates in tow. Before
“We don't know WHAT they are —We lost
the seed-packet."
Brock could stop them, they
crowded around the cage,
whistling shrilly and poking their
fingers through the bars. “Fair
go,” Brock kept crying, but all
to no avail.
“Open the door and make him
sit on the perch!” commanded
Bobby, the biggest boy. Nothing
ever quite satisfied Bobby. The
sight of a strange bird squatting
on the floor had soon palled, and
he desired action. “See how he
goes on the swing!” he cried,
inspired.
He put out a hand to open the
cage-door, but Brock yelled out
hysterically, “Mum, make them
leave my bird alone.”
The boys fell back from the
cage, their faces stolid with
embarrassment. Bobby muttered,
“I wasn’t going to hurt your
mangy old bird.”
The mother, who had appeared
in the kitchen doorway, knew of
only one escape. “I was coming
to see if you’d all like some
lemonade and cake,” she said
brightly. “If you would, I’ll take
it out on the front veranda.”
They had finished the cakes
and drink, and were playing
holey, when Netta came in the
front - garden gate. “Hello,
there,” she greeted Brock. “You
see, I’ve kept my word. Where’s
this marvellous bird?”
Bobby said, glancing sidelong
at Brock, “You better not get
too close to it, or Brock’ll have
pups.”
“Oh, shut-up,” muttered
Brock. He led Netta through the
hall.
She looked sympathetically at
the miserable bird, and in the
direct, thoughtless way of the
young she stated emphatically,
“You’ll have to take him out to
the mountain-top and take him
down into the bush. Poor little
thing.”
Brock began to tremble. He
did not say anything, but, moving
closer to the cage, clutched the
side of it.
“It’s a pitta all right. I thought
it must be. And you really can’t
keep it cooped up in a cage sit-
ting on an ice-chest. It’ll never
be happy there. It’s cruel to
keep it.” Brock’s face became
white and tense, but he remained
silent.
“Listen to little Miss Bird-
lover,” came Clem’s voice,
heavily sarcastic.
Netta did not turn from her
inspection of the bird. “He’ll
die if you keep him,” she said,
raising her voice a little. “You'll
just have to take him back.”
“And what’ll the bird do
then?” sang Clem. “Find his
way home like a bow-wow?”
She compressed her lips. “I
suppose you think you’re funny.
Why don’t you get back to your
milk-cans?”
“And why don’t you get back
to your fancywork and leave the
kid alone? To hear you talk
you’d think he only had to stick
that biird in any bunch of trees
and it’d be happy. It’d probably
be kicked from pillar to post
and die in any case.”
“I might have known you
would have no finer feelings,”
cried Netta, at last facing him.
“I can see it’s no use trying to
show Brock how wrong he is if
he’s aided and abetted in this
cruelty. I’m just wasting my
time.”
“You said it, sister,” agreed
Clem. His remark and his smile
infuriated her, and without
another word she left. Clem
watched her walk all the way to
the gate. He didn’t say anything,
but despite his antagonism there
was a dream in his eyes.
When she had passed from
view he turned irritably to Brock,
Who was sniffling miserably,
every now and again drawing
the sleeve of his sweater under
his nose, leaving glistening
streaks like snail-trails all over
his cheeks and chin.
“What a boob you are,” com-
mented Clem.
“Why can’t everyone leave me
alone?” groaned Brock.
“You asked her about it. It’s
your fault she came up. You
were singing and dancing about
her coming up this morning, and
now you’re moaning and groan-
ing because she came and said
something you didn’t like.”
“I didn’t ask her to poke her
nose in,” said Brock resentfully.
“It’s my bird and I’ll do what
I like with it.”
With a wisdom not wholly
realised, Clem said bitterly, “It’s
yours all right, but you’ll have
to fight to keep it. And if you
think you’re going to be left in
peace you’ve got another think
coming. They’ll all be at you
when the news gets around.”
AND so it proved. The next
morning when Brock was
pouring the milk into Mrs.
Baker’s beaker, the door
opened: but this time she
had not come to check the milk.
She said archly, striving to make
friendly overtures but actually
alarming him, “Well, I believe
you’re starting a rival aviary—
er —Brock. That’s the name,
isn’t it? A very unusual name.
I don’t think I’ve ever heard of it
before.”
“Yes’m,” said Brock, retreat-
ing a few steps.
“Does that mean you are start-
ing an aviary?” she smiled.
“No’m,” said Brock.
“But this little bird you have,
a very pretty bird, I believe —
you’re surely not going to keep
it in a cage just by itself. It’ll
fret, you know, Brock. Birds are
like humans and they must have
company. Especially little birds.
They like to keep together.
Haven’t you seen the swallows
and the tits and the wrens, and
the sparrows? They’re all in
flocks.”
“Not pittas,” said Brock
sullenly. “I looked them up in
a book.”
“Now, truthfully, Brock,”
said Mrs. Baker, ignoring this
remark, “don’t you think your
little fellow would be happier
if he were in with my birds? You
could look at him every day,
and perhaps if you were very
careful and moved slowly you
could sometimes go into the
aviary and feed them. Now,
don’t you think that would be
a simply splendid idea?”
Brock was far from thinking
it was a splendid idea: he was
terrified, and began to edge to-
wards the side of the house.
When he reached it he dashed
around it like a hare, fleeing
swiftly from her covetous eyes.
He was sobbing when he
climbed on to the cart. “ ’Struth,
what’s wrong with you now!
You do nothing but blubber,”
commented Clem.
“She wants my bird.” In a
frenzy he cried “Why doesn’t
she go down into the bush and
get one the same instead of
wanting to pinch mine?”
“It wouldn’t be the same,”
said Clem, in his new harsh-
ness ; “she wants yours.”
“I’ll get a lock, see. You pull
up at Gelberg’s coming home
and I’ll get one.”
Thinking of the lock, Brock
fel,t much safer and therefore
happier.
He arrived home in good
spirits with the lock and went
straight to the cage. He quaked
when he found young Don
Snedder, cub-reporter from the
“Courier,” poking a long finger
through the bars. He sprang
forward.
“You get away from my
bird!” he yelled, and there was
in his face the desperation of
the primitive who finds his
stronghold menaced. With
fumbling fingers he clasped the
lock through the mesh of the
door and cage and locked it.
Don looked astounded. “Look
here,” he said, “I wasn’t going
to pinch it. It looked so seedy
I just wanted to see if it’d take
any interest in anything.”
Brock did not answer. His
anxious eyes consumed the
moping bird.
“You know, old chap,” con-
tinued Don, “it does look pretty
seedy. Netta Humphries thinks
you should take it back to the
bush. It’d be a darn sight
happier there, you know. Look,
I’ll give you five-bob if you
take it back.”
Brock, in his extreme misery,
had only one answer to that.
“It’s mine. I found it. I’m
keeping it”
“It’s yours, all right, old
chap,” conceded Don, and then
added with a grin, “till death
do you part.”
“It won’t die,” yelled Brock.
Don, feeling his inadequacy
to cope with such emotional
stress, withdrew.
A FTER tea that evening Clem,
who was reading the local
paper, said gravely “Well,
Brock, you’ve made the news
tonight. Let’s see —ten lines.
Not bad for a start. Of course
your fame rests solely on that
bit of fluff.”
Brock looked up from his
construction - set bridge.
“W-w-what does it say?”
“Oh, just that you found the
bird and that’s about all. Some-
thing about Mr. Lovejoy says
he can’t understand a ground-
bird being caught-up in a gale
and blown so far from home.”
The boy’s head came peering
over Clem’s crooked arm. “Get
out! I’m reading the paper.”
Clem sounded flustered.
“It’ll only take me a minute.
Where is it?”
“Here, take the cursed thing,”
said Clem, and, thrusting the
paper in a heap at the boy, he
went out to the kitchen.
It took Brock some time to
find the par., and then he read
it slowly. When he came to the
last sentence the rest of the
paragraph faded from his
memory. It said:
Mr. Lovejoy does not think
the bird will survive in cap-
tivity.
Brock walked unsteadily from
the room, clutching the paper
to his chest. He wasn’t posi-
tive about the meaning of “sur-
vive,” but had grave apprehen-
sions, so was going to his mother
for enlightenment and comfort.
His mother and Clem were
standing by the sink, their backs
to him.
“I’ve been wanting to see you
by yourself all day,” his mother
was saying. “I was in the bush-
house while you were talking to
Don. Now, I wasn’t eavesdrop-
ping. But I wasn’t going to
make fools of the three of us by
coming out in the middle of an
argument. Now, what’s this
about Netta?”
o Continued on next page )


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS ..
12 months £ 1/1 6/ —
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 765 Wellington, N.Z.)
■"INSURANCE —for your protection —
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131 (4 lines)
Manager.
“You heard what we said.
I don’t have to go into it all
again, do I?”
“Don’t be impertinent.”
“Crikey, Mum. You heard
it all! Can’t you put two and
two together?”
“What I want to know is how
you put two and two together
and came to the conclusion
that Netta had asked Don to try
and get Brock to let the bird
go.”
“Well, if you must know, it
was a shot in the dark. He’s
got his eye on her, and he
doesn’t give a tinker’s curse
about birds. He certainly doesn’t
care five-bob’s-worth. And
that’s the bribe he was
poking under the kid’s nose.
When I heard him spouting all
that tripe, I got the idea Nett’d
put him up to it. She probably
told him she’d go to the Girls’
Friendly dance with him if he got
Brock to let the bird go. So I
told him so.”
“And what’s this he said about
you not having a chance with
Netta? Are you wanting to
have a chance?”
“Maybe.”
Great concern came into the
mother’s voice as she said
urgently: “Then I hope you
weren’t serious when you told
him that he could tell Netta
that if Brock did let the bird go
it’d be through your influence,
and that you’d claim the reward.
I hope you’re not going to make
that poor little fellow’s life more
miserable than it is. You know
how keenly he feels everything.”
Clem stamped his feet in
embarrassment. “Crikey, Mum,
you’ll have the kid growing up a
sap if you keep on coddling him
the way you do. And look at
the way he’s got the bird under
lock and key. He’d be better
off without it.”
In her agitation the mother
flapped the twisted dishcloth in
front of Clem. “And whose
fault is it he’s growing up
suspicious and holding onto
things for dear life? You boys.
With all your teasing. I know
you both think it’s a joke, but
he takes it in earnest. Poor
little fellow. It makes my heart
ache every time I see him with
a treasure.”
“I say, you’re laying it on a
bit thick,” protested Clem, now
angry. “A kid has to get used
to teasing and tussling. What
do you think goes on at school?
He can’t go around all his life
bathed in a holy glow!”
“Clem !” Clem banged the
saucepans into the cupboard
under the sink. The mother
said emphatically “If you can
only gain Netta’s favors by
bribery she’s not worth having.
You’ll be paying through the
nose all the time. And just one
last thing. It seems to me that
everyone is very concerned
about the bird, but has one
thought been given to Brock?
No! After all, a child should
be more important than a mere
bird.” She turned from the
sink and of course saw Brock,
petrified in the doorway.
“Don’t you dare touch my
bird!” was all he could say, and
as he had said this so often it
now had the intonation of a
parrot-cry.
“God !” groaned Clem. “What
a helluva fuss about a bird.”
As he went to the back door
he called back “Why don’t you
sleep with it, and then you’ll be
happy?”
nr HE father came out from the
lounge-room. “What in the
name of heaven is all this row
about?” he demanded in his
usual good-humored drawl.
“Clem is going to pinch my
bird and give it to Netta so as
she’ll go to the dance with him.”
The father looked amazed.
The mother placed a firm
hand on the boy’s head. “Now,
son, listen to me. I don’t think
Clem has any intention of taking
the bird.”
“He’s keen on Netta,” per-
sisted Brock, longing for the
comfort of assurance, but at the
same time fearful of relinquish-
ing his suspicions.
“Maybe,” sighed the mother,
“but he’s very fond of you.”
From the lounge-room came
Gill’s voice, derisive with dis-
gust. “Aw, you make me sick.
I’ve never heard such twaddle
in my life.”
The father’s lips quirked
briefly, but all he said was “You
better get to bed, son. And if
you want to, take the con-
founded bird with you. And
you needn’t go on the cart in
the morning.”
Brock took the cage into his
room. During the night he
imagined he heard someone
creeping down the passage, so
he got up and locked the door
and window. At last feeling
safe, he fell into a heavy sleep,
exhausted by his emotions.
■jVrEXT morning the bird was
not mentioned, and by
lunch-time Brock had lost his
hunted look. He even decided
to take the bird out for an air-
ing, and stood the cage under
the lucerne-tree. Clem, on his
way to the bails, stopped when
he saw them. Clearing his
throat he said “Mr. Lovejoy’s
coming up the path. I suppose
he wants a screw at your bird.”
Brock clutched the handle of
the cage and crouched against
the trunk. Clem said irritably,
“Look here, kid, no one’s going
to pinch it. Least of all old
Lovejoy. Let him look at it, for
Pete’s sake. He might be able
to tell you how to get its pecker
up.” He went on to the bails.
After several minutes Brock
decided that perhaps Clem was
right: Mr. Lovejoy might be
able to help. He 'took the cage
inside and surprised his mother,
who had unburdened her
worries on the visitor, by going
straight to Mr. Lovejoy with
the cage. The man put the cage
on a chair, and, hunkering down,
he scrutinised the bird for a long
time. At last he said gravely
“He was probably severely
buffeted by the gale.” He
looked up kindly at the anxious
boy. “He’s not too spry, is
he?”
“No,” admitted Brock Un-
willingly. He did not want to
say the hateful words, but
found himself comjpelled. “Netta
Humphries says I should take
him back to the bush. Do you
think I should?”
“Well, now, I wouldn’t like
to say. That’s hard to say. But
I tell you what: Is there any-
where out in the open you could
leave him for a while? Some
protected place where the big
birds won’t attack him?”
“There’s the chicken-run,”
said the mother instantly. “It
has overhead netting, and he’d
be quite safe there, Brock.”
“You think that’d be a good
idea?” Brock appealed to Mr.
Lovejoy.
“I certainly do. Just put him
in there, open the cage door and
leave him to himself for a
while.”
When Brock came back from
the chicken-run his mother and
Mr. Lovejoy were having a cup
of tea. “Well,” said Brock, as
though he had abandoned an
only and ailing child in a flood,
“I’ve left him there. He’s still
in the cage, though. He won’t
come out.”
“Good fellow,” said Mr.
Lovejoy. “He can’t come to
any harm.”
Brock wandered aimlessly
about the room, running his
fingers along the walls and
dragging his toes over the
linoleum. At last his mother
said “What about going over to
Mrs. Longdon’s for me, Brock?
I want a loan of her pinking-
scissors. That’s a good boy.”
“Oh, I suppose so,” mumbled
Brock; and after making sure
that the chicken-run gate was
still latched and the bird safe,
he set off.
YI7HEN he returned half an
' ' hour later he went straight
to the chicken-run. The cage
was no longer there, nor was
there any sign of the bird. He
rushed into the house. “Where
is it?” he cried hysterically.
“It’s gone. You’ve let Mr. Love-
joy pinch it.”
“Now listen to me, dear,”
beseeched the mother. “Mr.
Lovejoy didn’t touch it.
Now . . .”
“Well, Clem’s pinched it. You
let him. You tricked me.” She
blanched, an,d her hand as she
raised it to her damp forehead
was trembling.
“Now, Brock, please, just
listen for a moment.”
“You let Clem take it.”
She did not deny this. The
father came in. Without
thinking he declared “You should
have let him see for himself.
I thought it was damn’ silly
idea.” He was at last angry.
The peace of the household had
been disturbed just a little too
long.
“Oh, go away,” cried the
mother wearily. “I’m tired of
trying to deal with all of you.
I think sometimes I could run
away.”
“I’ll run away!” shouted
Brock. “I hate you all. I’m
running away, see, and I’m never
coming back.”
As he ran from the house he
heard his mother crying and his
father shouting “Let him run.
It might knock some sense into
him.” But she ran after him
calling out “Brock! Do you*
hear me? Comeback! Wait till
I tell you.”
A frenzied anger gave him
strength to prolong his burst of
speed, and by the time he came
to the main-road he had left
his mother far behind. He ran
on down the road till he came
to the sloping paddocks with
the willows. Seeing them he
had an inspiration. He would
take shelter in their branches
till dark and then it would be
easy to make his escape from
a searching family and an odious
town.
TTE turned from the main-
road into the side-street so
as to avoid the banks of black-
berries which an exasperated
shire - council had found
ineradicable. As he turned the
high-banked corner he met
Netta pushing her bike up the
hill. At the sight of her his
anger found vent. “I hope you
enjoy the dance,” he croaked.
“I hope you and Clem fall on
the floor and break your necks.”
She was bewildered. “What
on earth do you mean?”
“It’s all your fault Clem took
my bird.”
A faint lengthening of the
pretty scarlet lips showed her
suppressed satisfaction, and
Brock felt an impulse to kick
and scratch her. Instead he
picked up a piece of blue-metal
and shouted: “Go away or I’ll
land you one in the moosh.”
He had frequently heard the
big boys calling this out, and
was very pleased with the imita-
tion of their bullying swagger.
Netta glanced briefly at him
and made for the main-road.
When she was out of sight he
ran to the nearest willow and
hauled himself into the lithe
branches.
He had been there only a
couple of minutes when Clem
cantered down the main road
on old Belle. This sight gave
Brock great satisfaction. He
decided grimly that he would
stay in the tree till he starved
to death and then his corpse
would drop from the tree and
everyone would be sorry. He
savored their grief, dwelling on
the graveside scene with Clem
well to the fore, haggard with
repentance and grief. He forgot
all about the bird. Like most
apprehended Calamities of youth,
the excessive misery of pre-
meditation had robbed the
climax of tragedy. He was too
young to be aware of the
panacea which now allowed him
to concentrate blissfully on
another drama.
The graveside scene was wal-
lowing towards a melodramatic
conclusion for the third time
when he saw Netta pass by on
the bike. As she turned into
the side-road Clem came gal-
loping up the hill. Brock
watched their encounter.
“Have you seen Brock?”
inquired Clem with a hostility
that verged on contempt.
“Yes. Here about twenty
minutes ago. And he told me
about the bird. Really, Clem,
you shouldn’t have taken it
from him. If you couldn’t
influence him to do it of his
own accord, then . . .”
Clem interrupted contemptu-
ously. “You do think you’ve
got influence, don’t you ! Think
I pinched off with the bird to
get in sweet with you: is that
it? Well, I didn’t! The bird
died and I pitched it in the fire
so he wouldn’t see it. What do
you think I am? Such a damn’
sucker I’d pinch a kid’s bird to
get a date! If that’s the sort
of bloke you want you’re
welcome.”
Netta flushed. She said
shrilly: “Well, even if you had
released it, I wouldn’t have gone
to the dance with you! ” Despite
her wrath, the statement had the
sting of reprisal, not truth. She
set the bike rolling down the
hill.
/'''LEM turned slightly in the
saddle and watched her.
There was no expression on his
face. At last he straightened,
and, reining the horse in against
the fence, he stared into the
willows. His voice sounded
weary and spiritless when he
called out flatly: “I thought
you’d be there. Are you coming
out yourself or do I have to
come in and drag you out?”
Without demur Brock left his
shelter and clambered up be-
hind Clem. They rode home in
silence.
The family was in the kitchen,
the father and Gill already eat-
ing their meal. After a brief
glance at Brock the mother took
three plates from the oven and
placed them on the table.
“Curry and rice," she said,
eager to please. “Sit down right
away.”
Without looking up from his
plate Gill mumbled “And if
you want to come to the Metro
with me you better get a move
on.”
Brock forgot all his em-
barrassment instantly. “Gee!
Can I go? Dinkum?”
“Oh, I suppose so,” grumbled
the father. “But don’t think
you can start pestering m e every
week.”
Brock exclaimed with excite-
ment: “It’s a pejrter! There’s a
guy can crack a fellow’s neck
like a carrot and there he is on
a presipus wrazzling like mad
with two blokes and then over
they go, I mean the baddies, like
—like eggs, perlongk! on to
the rocks hundreds of feet
below.”
“How ghastly!” cried the
mother. “I really don’t
think . . .”
“No, Amy,” said her husband
quietly.
She sighed. Her glance
flickered from one face to the
next, resting at last on Brock’s.
She thought with a strange
irritation: “So that’s the end of
the dragoon-bird. All that
anxiety for nothing. He’s just
the same as the rest of them.”
THE RASHER
Between the bacon and the sty
What skills and arts and crafts \ must lie!
The butcher comes with cruel steel
To launch aloft the maddening squeal,
Then the singeing, shaving, chopping,
Limbs from carcass cleanly lopping,
Now the slow mysterious curing,
The last indignity enduring;
Then the holy hush in hanging,
Gentle handling, no rough banging;
Then the stentorian voice you hear
Of the callous auctioneer;
Then the salesman’s curious arts
Demonstrate the choicest parts;
Then the smooth revolving sheer
Making the leanest bits look nicer;
Then the weighing and the buying
And at last the fragrant frying,
And the tempting, appetising
Odors from the rasher rising.
NEW ZEALAND.
ARNOL WALL.


r
Hat/e you a
BFG farming
job Id do?
a
£1
GL
m
'mmm
3£G
jggjj|gij!gg|
m
CCS® 3
9 Bedrock economy.
9 Absolute reliability.
9 Develops maximum
power at low working
speeds.
9 A full range of
"MATCHED - AFTER -
TEST IMPLEMENTS"
make it a Task Force
in Itself!
tyge
Sold and Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and
Dealers everywhere.
•he NUFFIELD
DIESEL TRACTOR
Basie Tractor with Heavy Duty Wheel Equipment
DOWN PAYMENTS FROM
£345
with generous Terms of Repayment
Your local Nuffield Dealer will be glad to discuss
a trade-in of your present tractor as part-payment
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINEk PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
559
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NT.27.32
BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A
BUS TO BURTVILLE
By Gooff Dingham
MR- ECKERSELY strode
down the main street of
Ellaville. It is a fact that
a short and fairly stout
n^^. rnay register more easily the
emotions of indignation and
Et mined opposition, his stature
g such that those feelings are
e t Phased. Mr. Eckersely, in
addition to being stout and
fP 1 ossive, gained from the facts
‘tv he Was a man of business,
„ also > or perhaps more than
c,, e hie president of the
bnaville Chamber of Commerce.
It needed not, then, much intel-
ligence to perceive there was
something wrong in the town
tnis sunny morning, and whereas
others lazed gently along Main-
street, Mr. Eckersely strode
impressively, and with his feel-
ings rising to the boil. Clutched
in his hand was a newspaper,
and his succeeding passage of
emotions caused him to
crumple it further.
At the office of Layman and
Layman, solicitors, he did not
pause, but entered, and his
clutched paper he shook at
Simon Layman, the last of a long
line of Layman and Layman,
also solicitors. This Simon
Layman, a young man, seemed
a. trifle tired, probably because
of his being the remaining and
sole Layman, but then his looks
belied an excellent mental
capacity.
Thrusting the “District Star”
into the face of his solicitor
friend Mr. Eckersely said
explosively, “That, Simon,
explains everything.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Simon, so that
he did not commit himself. It
was a family habit Mr. Simon
retained, of allowing others to
commit themselves. However,
as the president did not offer an
explanation he said, softly,
“Explains what, Arthur?”
“E xpl a i n s,” said Mr.
Eckersely, “the frequent visits of
that Burtville taxi and bus
fellow, what’s his name? —
Reynolds.”
“Ah, yes ; young Reynolds,”
said Mr. Simon. “What’s he
been up to this time?”
“He,” said Mr. Eckersely,
with no little indignation, “is
running a bus from Burtville to
here, back to Burtville and
finally to return here.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Simon, again,
“so that’s his caper, eh?”
“Caper! ” exploded Mr.
Eckersely. “Caper? I’ll caper
him. I’ll run his damned bus
out of town before it reaches
here.”
Mr. Simon noted the slight
anomaly, but allowed it to pass.
“We won’t,” he said firmly,
“allow him to come here.” He
rose, placed a hand on the
shoulder of the chamber’s presi-
dent, and said, “It would ruin
our business, Arthur.”
“Ruin our business!” said
Mr. Eckersely, shrilly. He
breathed hard upon his solicitor
friend. “I’ll tell you what,
Simon,” he said. “It’s like their
confounded hide. As though
we want to shop in their blessed
town.” He paused.
“As though, anyway,” he
added, “anyone wants to shop
there.”
TT was a fact, unacknowledged
A by Mr. Eckersely, that Burt-
ville was composed of brisk
businessmen, boasted up-to-date
stores, and was set up in modern
fashion. Ellaville, on the other
hand, although it did possess a
fine store, which under the name
and management of one A.
Eckersely, Draper and Store-
keeper, also had stores which
went near to being described as
‘tumbledown,” despite the
periodic articles in the “Star”
urging the storekeepers to show
more pride in their town.
For that matter, Ellaville pre-
ferred to sleep in its hollow and
hills, and none noticed the slip-
ping-away of it into the past.
Now, for Burtville to invade the
sleepy contentment of this town
enraged the successful store-
keeper beyond measure. That
anyone would choose to shop
outside Ellaville was incompre-
hensible to him.
“Mustn’t come,” agreed the
solicitor. “Must see to it that he
doesn’t.” He was firm on that
point.
“Bah! ” said Mr. Eckersely.
There being no response from
his colleague he repeated, “Bah! ”
and this time Simon Layman
noticed. He looked up with an
inquiring air, for he had the habit
of pondering, chin on chest and
seeming removed from this
world. “What is it, Arthur?” he
asked mildly.
“Look,” commanded that
man, and when Mr. Layman
looked at the “Star” he saw that
Mr. Reynolds had devilishly
designed his bus to arrive at
Ellaville that very morning, the
same day of the paper’s issue,
and now, he, Mr. Reynolds,
would take a busload of Ellaville
people to shop at Burtville. The
very thought was appalling. Yet
not for nothing had the solicitor
sunk his head into his chest.
“Arthur,” he said solemnly,
and at the very tone of his voice
a mild gleam of hope appeared
in the draper’s eye.
“Yes, Simon,” he said.
“Of course,” said Mr. Eayman,
warily, “you’ll have to take credit
for anything that happens. Any
incident, I mean.”
“C re d i t,” affirmed Mr.
Eckersely.
“Then it’s like this,” said Mr.
Simon ; and, seated, the two men
bent over the desk, their eyes
following the lines and circles
described by Mr. Layman on his
blotting-paper. There were a
few words spoken, a few delicate
gestures of the Layman hands,
and it was all perfectly clear to
the chamber president. When he
looked up at his friend it could
be noted that he was a changed
man. Indignation had softened,
emphatic protest no longer
existed, and Mr. Eckersely was
one with the mellow sun, mildly
delighted, and, to show that,
rubbing his hands.
“Excellent, Simon,” he pro-
nounced. And, rubbing his
hands more, “Couldn’t be
better.”
The golden moment of joy
was broken when Arthur
Eckersely realised suddenly that
time was precious. At any
moment, now, Mr. Reynolds was
due to arrive.
“Not much time,” he observed,
“that fellow will be here soon.”
As he bustled out of the
solicitor’s office he continued
chuckling, and repeating to him-
self, “That fellow indeed.” He
then discovered, as he was walk-
ing down Main-street, that it was
not Mr. Reynolds to whom he
was referring as “that fellow,”
but actually Mr. Harold
Thompson, of Burtville, for it
was patent to him, now, that Mr.
Thompson must have engineered
this bus-trip.
Mr. Harold Thompson, being
the president of Burtville's
Chamber of Commerce, had very
little appeal to Mr. Eckersely’s
mind. He was even inclined to
dislike the Burtville president,
although, to date, they had not,
as it were, crossed swords.
Altogether, this morning, Mr.
Eckersely was inclined to hate
his Burtville counterpart, but the
small scheme that wriggled about
in his mind eventually led him
to tolerate Harold Thompson,
and even, to an extent, pity him.
Before the arrival of the bus
Mr. Eckersely was busy. He had
various people to see, and a
number of phone-calls to make.
These were executed with
unusual rapidity, and any scheme
he may have had appeared likely
to succeed. It wanted only the
arrival of the bus, and that was
not long in appearing. Mr
Reynolds announced his arrival
in Ellaville t>y loudly tooting
his horn, but had he not done
that the very rattling of the bus
over the corrugations would
have proved to be fair enough
warning.
AND Ellaville was there to see
the bus. It crowded from
the pubs and stores, flowed from
the tumbledown post-office, and
emerged from the two banks.
There may have been wistful
hearts in that crowd of people,
for some adventurous souls may
have wished for an escape, if
only for a day, to the bright
lights and modernity of Burtville.
If so they did not reveal their
wishes, for it was firmly under-
stood, by now, that it would
be treason to board the incoming
bus. Others spoke with
enthusiasm about “Ecker,” and
how Burtville would never
beat him, and neither they
would, either, if the Ellaville
people had their way.
Mr. Reynolds, the driver of
the Burtville bus, was not lacking
in confidence or self-esteem. On
this occasion he had the backing
of the Burtville Chamber of
Commerce, and its president, Mr.
H. Thompson, and next to the
Almighty, there inight be no
better authority, and even the
Almighty, in matters of business,
might take second place to the
chamber. Also Mr. Reynolds
agreed it was time the Ellaville
people were rescued from their
tyrannous storekeepers. The
people were overdue for a trip
to Burtville, and here was Mr.
Reynolds to rescue them. He
felt, in a way, that his bus was a
vehicle of liberation.
He did not stop exactly where
the crowd gathered, but a
little further along the main
street. He then showed his
indifference to the Ellaville
stares by making a smoke with
one hand, licking the paper with
a large tongue, rolling the whole
together with one finger, flicking
the cigarette into the air, and
catching it with his upturned
mouth, at the same time, with
the other hand snapping a fuel
lighter into action and lighting
his smoke.
Contemplating, he drew on
the cigarette, a long breath which
he expelled with some emphasis,
after which he gazed about him,
at the Ellaville people with a'
look which indicated, plainly,
“Now come on; we haven’t all
day. Now’s your chance.” “To
escape,” Mr. Reynolds might
have added, but he did not. He
was lacking somewhat in
imagination, being, like his bus,
fairly stolid. On the other hand,
of- course, that stolid bus, in
action, could be a hoppity-kate
o Continued on next page )


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C LEWlSjfChainnan). p. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
biRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JL E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
sort of an affair; and at the
moment Mr. Reynolds was trust-
ing it would not be too heavily
loaded. That it might not be
loaded at all never entered the
driver’s mind.
“Bus to Burtville! ” he cried.
At first it seemed there was
none to heed his response, but
no sooner had the cry left his
lips than he perceived Mr.
Arthur Eckersely walking rapidly
towards him. Now, of all people,
Mr. Eckersely was the man the
bus-driver did not wish to meet.
He had been expressly warned
by Mr. Harold Thompson to
avoid him. However, Mr.
Eckersely was having none of
that sort of thing.
“Why, Bill Reynolds!” he
exclaimed, as though, of all
people he had missed seeing over
the past weeks, it was Bill
Reynolds.
“Ha,” said Mr. Reynolds,
suspiciously.
“This is great,” said Mr.
Eckersely emphatically.
“Ah,” said Mr. Reynolds
again. He was sure, now, that
Mr. Eckersely did not under-
stand his presence and the reason
for it.
“See the ‘Star’ this morning,
Mr. Eckersely?” he asked
casually.
“ ‘Star’? See it? I should
say so,” said Mr. Eckersely.
“Never miss the ‘Star’,” he told
the bus-driver. “We business-
men can’t afford to do that, eh?”
he laughed. “Ha! Ha! By
joves, no.”
Then he stared at Mr
Reynolds. “Now we mustn’t
hold you up, Bill,” he said
affably. “You must fill up your
bus and get going. Can’t keep
the Ellaville people waiting, nor,
for that matter, the storekeepers
of Burtville. No fear.” Mr.
Eckersely seemed positively
delighted to hasten shoppers
away from their home-town, and
to assist the business of the
Burtville commercials.
TJLAINLY flummoxed, Mr.
Reynolds could not under-
stand it at all. He might have
dithered there for ten minutes,
on the footpath, only that Mr.
Eckersely propelled him to his
vehicle. “Into the bus, Bill,” he
advised that man. “Big event,
this. Up at the Council
Chambers. Now you know
where they are.”
Wfell, so Bill Reynolds did, as
did everyone in the shire. The
placing of the Council Chambers
in Ellaville had, local-govern-
mentally speaking, rocked the
entire shire, for it was obvious
that Burtville was the more
central and up-to-date centre for
Council Chambers. To the con-
troversial chambers, then, drove
Bill Reynolds. The sight of the
people crowding the footpath
and lined along the Council
Chamber steps made the bus-
driver believe it to be a great
occasion, so that he revved his
engine loudly, and the bus
quivered with pride and drew
up, still quivering, before the
people.
And Mr. Eckersely was there,
Mr. Eckersely with all the pomp
that could be fitted into his short,
and softly to the bus-driver, said
he was sure that he, Bill
Reynolds, represented the
successful figure. He presided
over the congregation of the
people. He spoke words gently
people of Burtville, and would,
therefore, understand, for all
Burtville, the gesture that was
here being made.
Yes, Bill Reynolds under-
stood ; and at that Mr.
Eckersely said he would delay
no longer. The crowd parted,
and the bus-driver beheld a sea
of dark countenances, and a riot
of color that, no sooner than was
beheld, flowed down upon him,
darkness, color and all, and past
him, into his waiting vehicle.
The same surprising sea, which
the driver now recognised as
formerly inhabiting the Ellaville
aboriginal reserve, filled his bus
to overflowing, hastily boarding
for fear the splendid venture
might be revoked, and all the
time gesticulating, shouting and
laughing ; at the same time bang-
ing empty cases into racks, and
making a great to-do of noise.
The bewildered Bill Reynolds
could only watch, his stolid self
hopelessly lost, his cigarette cold
and limp in his hand.
And Mr. Eckersely considered
the matter finished. He slapped
his hands together as though, in
one way, he was brushing chalk-
dust from them, and as though,
in another way, he was washing
his hands of an affair completed.
The Ellaville folk were com-
pletely without laughter, for they
would not use the dark people
as the butt of the joke. But
when, finally, the discomfited
Bill Reynolds entered his bus,
revved the engine, and drove off,
hoppity-kating along the red-
rutted road, the people did laugh,
uproariously and in groups, and
they opined, happily, that the
Burtville people were in for a
shock.
Mr. Eckersely, who felt
absurdly happy, suddenly
remembered his Burtville
brother -in - commerce, and
hastened to the post-office to
ring him. The special priority of
a chamber-president got him
directly on to Mr. Thompson.
“You there, Harold?” he
asked.
“Harold Thompson, here,”
said the Burtville man.
“Ha—hah!” said the Ellaville
commerce - president. “Look
here, Harold, Eckersely here.
Damn’ fine scheme that, of
yours. Damn’ fine.”
“You think so?” said Mr.
Thompson cautiously.
“Oh, absolutely,” said the
Ellaville draper. “No doubt
about it.”
“Isn’t there?” said Mr.
Thompson, with chagrin.
“And you must arrange a
reception for our people when
they arrive,” barked Mr.
Eckersely happily, into his
receiver.
“A reception?” said the
slightly-dazed Mr. Thompson.
The amazing Mr. Eckersely had
rung off.
'’THIS brief conversation caused
Mr. Thompson to pause.
Locally known as “no fool,” he
felt all had not been revealed to
him in that short talk. He placed
a finger on his lower-lip and
pondered. Now, he believed,
there was something fishy about
the bus-load of people travelling
from Ellaville to Burtville. He
looked at his watch, and put a
call through to the exchange. He
wanted Jim Whalen’s orchard.
He reckoned, Burtville time, that
Bill Reynolds would be due past
the orchard any time. Here he
was a trifle at fault for the bus
had already passed. Had Jim
Whalen seen that bus? Jim
Whalen had! What, he wanted
to know, was the idea of loading
it with aboriginals. Every blink-
ing one of them, too. Mr.
Thompson did not wait to
explain that matter. He rung
off.
He left his phone, and his short
slight figure bounced frenziedly
along the Burtville main-street.
He knew his public pre-
eminence depended upon a
successful outcome in this
matter of rivalry with Ellaville.
Now, it appeared that public pre-
eminence was doomed. That
was, until he had an idea which
sent him back to his office and
to the phone. He put through
an urgent call to the editor of the.
Ellaville “District Star,” and
caught that great personage at
his office.
“Listen,” he told him ; “I want
a ‘Star’ man to report the recep-
tion we are giving your folk from
Ellaville.”
Both Mr. Thompson and the
editor knew there was only one
reporter on the “Star,” one other,
in fact, than the editor himself.
However, the editor was con-
cerned. “Now, look here”
he told Mr. Thompson.
“Can’t wait,” said the Burt-
ville man. ? “Must have him,
immediately.”
“Oh, then, if that’s the case,”
said the editor, “the consequences
be upon your own head.
“Exactly,” said Mr. Thompson
happily, “but I want a reporter
“aTthe bis’” P
“Shouldn’t be difficult,” said
the “Star” editor. “They’ll have
to wait a few minutes for the
engine to cool when they get to
the top of Harper’s Hill.”
“So they will,” said Mr.
Thompson delightedly. He
blessed the distance between the
two townships, and especially he
blessed Harper’s Hill.
After that it was a matter
of racing against time. Mr.
Thompson popped in and out of
offices and stores, and sometime
afterwards there were others
doing a similar popping; and
then the baker drew up at the
Town Hall and unloaded trays of
small cakes, and the Co-operative
Store’s lorry rolled slowly down
Main-street bearing the device,
Welcome to Burtville, EUaville
Folk!
There were streamers and
bunting, too, hung across the
street, and the people gathered
about the Town Hall, for the
news had not been long in filter-
ing through. These preparations,
however, were barely completed
when fhe bus hove in sight and,
tearing frantically ahead of the
bus, the “Star” reporter, who
appeared to believe he was on a
railway-accident or explosion-
disaster assignment.
Mr. Harold Thompson was
particularly solicitous of the
reporter’s welfare. He even sug-
gested, for the sake of better
hearing and better reporting, that
the pressman might like to take
a seat beside him, on the dais.
The “Star” man was nothing
loath, and the sound of scribbling
that began, as he described for
the “Star” readers the color and
splendor of that gathering, was
a sort of music in Harold
Thompson’s ears.
did the “Star” man miss
much. He saw the bus-load
arrive at the Town Hall steps.
He saw the multicolored dresses
of the women and the equally
brilliant shirts of the men, and
as those folk were about to
depart from the bus he saw them
held up by the president of the
Burtville Chamber of Commerce
people, too, flocked about,
gathered together ’ st °PP ed
2? c f 3m Stre Jf’
f5 0m f ? tptb a “ d spdled on
road, and when they ceased
milll " g s °? ew T hat ’ a ? d Uletened
a £ lfle ’ , Mr - Harold Thompson
up hls s ™ ali £ and and ari ?>
“f br ° UBht immediate
"
Citizens of Burtville,” he
said, and there was a murmur of
a PPy ova l.
* am not ur ma y° r »” Mr.
Thompson informed them
unnecessarily ; and then thinking,
perhaps, that the dark people did
not completely understand,
added, “As you know, we have
no mayor in Burtville.”
He dropped both head and
voice a trifle modestly. “Were
we to have a mayor,” he said
with conviction, “then I doubt
n ot that you might select me.”
There was another murmur from
the crowd, whether of approval
or not Mr. Thompson was
unable to conclude.
“However,” he went on, “it is
as your representative I welcome
these folk who have today done
us the honor to visit us from
Ellaville.”
Now there was a cheerful note
of agreement. With satisfaction
Mr. Thompson noted, from the
corner of his eye, that the “Star”
reporter was scribbling rapidly.
“We consider these people as
truly representative of Ellaville.”
Cheers. Emphatic cheers. “We
think”—pause—“that Ellaville
could send no finer! ” Applause.
“We think,” said Mr. Thompson
warmly, remembering the detest-
able Eckersely, and yet really
believing all he said, so taken
he was with his own oratory and
thought, “that they are the true
Australians.” Terrific applause,
convincing both the people and
Mr. Thompson. No cessation of
reporting by the “Star” repre-
sentative.
“To you people then, and for
this day,” said Mr. Thompson,
pausing lovingly over the Queen’s
English, “we give the freedom of
this town. Go where you like.
Select what you like. It is all
free to you. We would not have
it said that we did not treat
Ellaville people with appropriate
warmth.”
This was all very puzzling to
the bus-load of people. They
stood before the Town Hall,
slightly awkward, and much
bewildered, lost amidst the
applause, and, as the “Star”
reporter was to write, “.... an
indictment of the people of
Ellaville, especially of Mr.
Eckersely, who so infamously
arranged the trip.” All this said
much for the provisional wisdom
of Mr. Simon Layman, solicitor.
“But before you go,” said Mr.
Thompson, “we wish to welcome
you in appropriate manner.”
So saying he swept open the
doors of the Town Hall, and
within, beneath the glowing of
the electric lights, was a feast set,
the small cakes from the bakers,
and ice-cream, sweets and soft
drinks, all things to delight the
aboriginal heart.
“Go to it,” said Mr. Thomp-
son with imperious grace, and a
gesture, again, of his hand, so
that the dark people hurried by
him to the unbelievable feast.
One, almost the last, said,
“My word, this is very good, I
think.”
A/TR. THOMPSON thought so,
too. He thought that when,
later, he saw them about town
selecting their presents and
stuffing their cases. A dazed
look was on all their faces, but
delight broke through, and Mr.
Thompson was able to view it
all, dreamily, and with pleasure.
He noticed the dark folk were
not immoderate in their requests.
They accepted their gifts with
shy thankfulness, and, when it
was time for their departure,
reluctantly piled into Bill
Reynolds’s bus.
That bus-driver was consider-
ably cheered as he hopped,
skipped and jumped his bus
along the road to Ellaville. He
could see the bus arriving, about
dusk, into the town, and the
aboriginals, like children, sing-
ing and waving their stuffed bags,
and displaying their colored gifts.
Ahead of him drove the “Star”
reporter, who had been warmly
thanked by Mr. Thompson, x on
behalf of the people of Burtville
and the Chamber of Commerce.
And in the evening Mr.
Thompson believed all to be well,
better, perhaps, than ever it had
been. In the distance jwere the
merry cries of the contented
Reserve people, and Mr.
Thompson derived satisfaction
from visualising the countenance
of Mr. Arthur Eckersely as he
watched the return of Bill
Reynolds and his bus-load.
And his supreme satisfaction
from imagining that man’s
reaction to the next issue of the
Ellaville “District Star.”
FROM CIRCULAR QUAY
Who would weary of watching water:
Harbor water, coiled and oily
Round wharves and moorings;
Or fresh and glistening
Out in the channels where currents tumble it'?
And who would tire of listening?
Hearing water whispering on beaches,
Lazily slapping the boards of row-boats,
Roaring and spitting to spray on headlands,
Quickening the sluggish blood of the dullard,
Hiss, ripple and lollop
On buffer and bollard.
When we were children
Travelling on ferries
We would listen and watch till the water
And engines mingled their sounds; deceiving
Us at the moment when the wharves receded . . .
Or was it that the craft was leaving?
Whether the ferry was
Cleaving water
Or that the Quay with its pigeons and peanuts
Now left behind it
Was vanishing with every other brief pleasure
So seeking again you might not find it.
When we were children
fishing from a dinghy
Hauling bream from their green invisible
World, we watched them for some token
As if they must not die in our element.
Their gasping death was a trust broken.
When we were children our gaze would follow
Down lines and anchor-chain from the angles
Where light deflected them through green
To their disappearance, down, down . . . Frowning
We thought we should live in the fishes’ element,
Kellick and sinker discounted drowning.
When we were children watching water
Or fire, or air we were fish, bird, salamander;
Instantaneous, shallow and hollow.
Water was only the limpid hour
Reckoning neither with squalls nor oceans
Or rolling and crashing love and power.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


"The Wallace of the West"
Swan River Chieftain
By W. CHARNLEY
Regarded now, after a
lapse of more than a
century, the Swan River
Settlement, founded in
June, 1829, had one distinct
advantage over its sister-
Australian colonies—it was the
only one of them in which real
consideration was given to the
ways and life of the aboriginal.
Elsewhere he was mostly
looked upon as a rather
unpleasant feature of the native
fauna. With Perth, however, we
even find his doings chronicled
in the newspapers; for Perth
had its newspapers within two
years of the hoisting of the flag.
The aborigines among whom
the settlers there—chiefly half-
pay officers from the Army and
Navy—found themselves were
possibly the highest in social
development of any in Australia.
They were, too, by their own
standards, a proud, powerful
people. The Bibbulmun nation.
Their domains were extensive.
When one of them stood on the
brink of the coastal escarpment
at what today is known as Green-
mount his eyes roved over a
landscape of surpassing beauty
and verdure: the choicest part
of the Land of Derbal —which
meant, in the native tongue, the
Land of Plenty.
It has been said that the Aus-
tralian aboriginal recognised no
chiefs or rulers in the hereditary
sense. He, however, did have
head-men —men of great strength
and courage who fitted naturally
into the position of leader; and
among the tribes with whom the
Swan River settlers first made
contact several names stand out:
Yalagonga, leader of the tribe
of Karrakatta, the native name
for the site of Perth;
Midgerooroo, who claimed
leadership of the area across the
Swan over what is now South
Perth; Munday, who led the
people of what is now the
Middle Swan ; Weeip, who took
leadership of the people of the
Upper Swan and well up on to
the scarp of Greenmount.
Rather far to the south the tribe
which roved over the quarter-
million acres assigned as the
Peel Estate gave heed to the
councils of the warlike Galute.
In 1838 H.M.S. Beagle, the
ship in which Charles Darwin
sailed the globe collecting
material which later led to his
writing The Origin of Species,
called at Fremantle preparatory
to starting on a survey of the
north-west coast of Australia.
With the idea that he might prove
of use as an interpreter a young
member of the Karrakatta tribe
was taken along: Migo, an
aboriginal ©f considerable
intelligence.
Asked one day what had been
the reactions of his people on
the arrival of the white men,
Migo said: “We thought the
ships were floating islands; the
masts and spars trees that had
lost their leaves. And when the
white men came ashore we took
them to be nganga” (the dead).
Isolated on their continent for
unnumbered centuries they had
no conception of the existence
of other living peoples; thus
they could only conceive of these
white newcomers as their own
dead, returned and bleached
white by long interment in the
earth.
When the whites began to
settle on sites known to the tribes
as being the favored camping-
places of men now dead, this
further identified them with the
dead, returned again in life to
the places they had earlier loved.
This illusion did not last long.
Soon the natives came to
recognise that these white new-
comers were humans like them-
selves. Irritation arose regard-
ing the manner in which the
whites slaughtered the game —
kangaroos, etc. —and chopped
down the trees. The slaughter of
trees was particularly resented.
Midgerooroo, dominant head-
man, had several wives, and a
number of sons, Yagan, Eagen,
Domchum, Narral and others.
The strongest was Yagan.
In the beginning Yagan was
popular with the settlers. Tall
and well-built; his teeth, of
course, perfect; highly intel-
ligent. He soon learned to speak
English. Among his own
people he was regarded as a
great warrior.
It became fashionable among
the rulers of the settlement to
invite him to dinner. Captain
Irwin and the officers of the
company of the 63rd Regiment
more than once had him in to
the evening-mess. His table-
manners were good; he readily
learned the use of the knife and
fork.
Yagan shared the almost
universal desire of the aboriginal
to don a uniform. So, since he
was recognised as a prince of his
people, the officers found him a
pair of nankeen breeches, orna-
mented with gold-braid, such as
they themselves wore, and a pair
of Wellington-boots. Lieutenant
Maude, of H.M.S. Sulphur, made
up the suit with a blue frock-coat
and a cocked-hat. Further glory
was added by a set of epaulettes
given by Colonel Hanson, of the
East India Company, on a visit
to Perth; September, 1831.
Yagan , took pride in his
uniform, which he wore only on
Sundays and gala-days. At other
times he strode about clad only
in his kangaroo-skin cloak.
He even learned the use of
money. The settlement was
always short of food, though the
river swarmed with fish. The
women of the tribes were expert
fishers. So, while the lesser
members of the tribes caught the
fish, Yagan attended to the sales-
department.
With money to spend he was
often to be found at Mayo’s
Perth Hotel, where he could
outclass any white player at the
old-fashioned game of skittles.
But he showed no fondness for
alcohol. Actually, few primitive
aborigines did: the prime craving
which so much dominated their
acts was for flour and potatoes,
farinaceous food; a hunger
which had haunted their race for
numberless generations. Most of
the native troubles of the early
days arose because of simple
things: bread and potatoes.
Wearing his uniform, playing
skittles, dining occasionally at
the white-man’s table, brought
Yagan peacefully to the end of
1831.
It has often been said that the
Australian aboriginal was devoid
of all religious beliefs. While
this is true with regard to dogma,
the aboriginal was not without a
code which materially guided
him along a path of what might
be called rightness, essential to
his living in social relationship
with his fellows.
His code and beliefs might be
defined as Natureism. Dwelling
for most of the time in the forest,
walking most times naked as the
sky, he found in himself a kin-
ship with all Nature. From this
derived the belief in Totemism,
which was really a code which
prevented the indiscriminate
slaughter of the other animals,
to whom the aboriginal felt
himself akin.
Likewise with regard to trees.
A dead tree was an act of
Nature, just as men grew old and
died with the effluxion of time.
A killed tree, on the other hand,
was an outrage. When the
aboriginal found it necessary to
strip bark from a trunk he was
careful to leave an unbroken
strip through which the sap
might continue to flow, and so
the tree live.
It was this matter of trees
which first brought the amiable
Yagan into con-
flict with the
white invaders.
About half the
year 1832 had
passed; then, on June 14, Perth
was astounded to learn that
Yagan had been guilty of
murder.
The main tributary to the
Swan is the not-insignificant
Canning. On a selection on the
upper reaches of this river two
laborers were busy clearing the
land. Suddenly Yagan, returned
again to the primitive savage,
appeared at the head of a
number of followers. One of
the laborers, a boy of 14, scent-
ing trouble, ran at once. But
the man, William Gaze, was
slower of foot and the spears
brought him down. Gaze was
still alive when the boy brought
the soldiers from the tiny fort
of Kelmscott; but Gaze died
later.
The boy testified that Yagan
had thrown the first spear, and
this, after his long contact with
the whites, marked his act in
the eyes of the settlers as
wantonly wicked: he certainly
should have known better.
The settlement at that moment
was under the guidance of
Captain Irwin, Governor Stirling
being away to the Court of St.
James. On the advice of the
Executive Council, Irwin issued
a proclamation offering £2O
reward for the capture of Yagan.
But Yagan was not to be easily
captured, though to many of the
settlers £2O would have seemed
a fortune.
Three months passed. One of
the peculiarities of the aboriginal
mind was the belief that the white
man would forget; that after a
time it would be safe to venture
near his settlements again.
The Swan River, as a noble
sheet of water, runs through
Perth. Just under the crest of
Mount Eliza, which dominates
the scene, the stream, or rather
estuary, draws in to what is
called The Narrows, where early
in October of that 1832 several
whites were fishing by the
southern bank. Presently Yagan,
with two other young aborigines,
came along the river-edge.
Separated by the width of the
river from Perth and its soldiers
they felt quite secure.
The white men, however, had
some bread. And by this lure
Yagan and the others were
enticed into the boat, leaving
their spears ashore. Promptly
they were fallen upon by
superior numbers, triced-up with
fishing-line and carried in
triumph to Perth.
Perth at that time was merely
a village, and it seethed with
excitement at the news that
Yagan had been taken and was
soon to be landed at the foot of
Barrack - street. Practically
everyone hastened to the scene,
some no doubt hoping to witness
the spectacle of an immediate
hanging.
Among the spectators who
watched the captives being led
up the short length of street to
the Barracks at the intersection
of St. George’s Terrace was a
Mr. Robert Lyon. To Mr. Lyon
the sight was one to evoke pity.
Being a man of some wealth and
influence, he at once sought an
interview with the Acting-
Governor.
Captain Irwin had fought in
the Peninsular War. He was a
gentleman and a Christian in the
truest sense. He agreed with
much that Mr. Lyon had to
say—that Yagan should be
regarded as a warrior defending
his country; that he should be
treated as a prisoner-of-war, not
as a criminal; that there should
be no immediate execution.
Mr. Lyon went further: the
natives should be taught
Christianity, and so might be
induced to live peacefully with
the whites. To this end he
offered to share Yagan’s prison-
cell, there to instruct the young
chief, while he himself might
secure a knowledge of the
aboriginal tongue, with the view
to going among them as a
missionary.
Captain Irwin approved.
Out from Fremantle lay the
small island of Carnac. There, in
surroundings quite pleasant, but
isolated by miles of water from
the mainland, Yagan and his
companions would be placed;
Mr. Lyon to live with them as
guardian and teacher. Two
soldiers were to be stationed on
the island as guards.
So on October 8, 1832, Mr.
Lyon and his charges were
landed on Carnac. Sufficient
stores were left, also a small boat,
with which communication with
Fremantle might be made should
such become necessary.
Mr. Lyon’s first move was to
have the shackles removed from
the prisoners. Although their
island was but of a few acres, and
condemned as barren, the
liberated aborigines found some
slender saplings, which they con-
verted into spears. Wading the
shallows of the island’s few
coves they speared fish, keeping
the camp well supplied.
Intent on teaching his charges
the benefits of industry, Mr.
Lyon set about the building of a
stone house. It was in connec-
tion with this that a dispute
arose, which gave occasion for
a display of Yagan’s indomitable
temper. One morning one of the
guards' officiously ordered the
prisoners to get a move on and
start work. Not having finished
his breakfast, Yagan made some
demur.
The soldier ran to the guard-
tent and procured a pair of
handcuffs. On the sight of these
Yagan at once seized his spear.
The second guard then arrived,
armed with a musket. The
moment was critical.
Just then, however, Mr. Lyon
appeared. He was unarmed, and,
having ordered the soldier to
lower his musket, he turned to
Yagan and asked him to hand
over his spear. He quite
expected, in view of Yagan’s
reputation, that he himself would
be speared. To his relief, Yagan
instantly obeyed, placing himself
under Mr. Lyon’s protection.
Thus Yagan showed that he was
prepared to fight and die rather
than again submit to being
shackled.
By this incident Mr. Lyon
thought, hopefully, that he had
gained an ascendancy over the
young savage. He was soon to
be disappointed.
Early in the morning of
October 15 the prisoners took
the boat, and escaped.
Next day the abandoned boat
was found in the surf off Wood-
man’s Point, nearly eight miles
from Carnac. Word filtered into
Perth, via aboriginal gossip, that
Yagan and
his companions
were back with
their tribe, safe
in the forests.
The escapees had had only a
minimum knowledge of boats.
Only twice had they been in one,
the first time at their capture,
the second on the long journey
down the Swan and out to their
island; on both occasions as
bound prisoners. Yet they had
set out across the midnight sea,
a wide stretch of dark ocean,
seldom other than turbulent.
Captain Irwin was a good
loser. On Yagan’s letting it be
known that he intended to
conduct himself more peacefully
in the future the Lieut.-Governor
decided that he should be
allowed to roam his native
forests unmolested.
Christmas saw Yagan even
back in Perth, demanding from
his fellow-aborigines a share of
the bread and other good things
distributed by the Government.
So Yagan found himself
forgiven, although he had killed
what would be considered an
unoffending white man.
It went even further than
forgiveness. Yagan’s fine appear-
ance, the pride with which he
stalked the soil which was soon
to be taken from his people, his
readiness to defend himself or
any of his weaker brethren, led
to his being given the sobriquet
“The Wallace of the West.”
In August, 1832, while Yagan
was still an outlaw, Mr. Johnson
—a wealthy merchant who had
come from Van Diemen’s Land
and opened a general-store in
Fremantle —became involved in
a duel with a fire-eating Scotch
lawyer, William Nairne Clarke.
Fought with pistols at Richmond,
a spot on the south side of the
Swan, adjacent to the present-
day traffic-bridge, the duel
resulted in Mr. Johnson’s being
mortally wounded; he died
within 24 hours. He being a
bachelor, with no heirs in
Western Australia, his store was
placed under Government seal
pending the arrival of a claimant
from Hobart.
Communication, however, was
slow in those days, so it was on
towards the end of April of the
next year before a claimant
arrived ; the seals were taken off,
and the store with its contents
offered for sale. Of course,
an unoccupied store, stocked
with valuable goods, made a
tempting mark for robbery, and
on the morning of April 30 such
an attempt was made. But a
watch was being kept; one
burglar was shot dead, the other
fled. The dead man was found
to be the earlier-mentioned
Domchum, son of Midgerooroo
and brother of Yagan.
That night Midgerooroo,
Munday, Yagan and others of
their tribe were encamped on
the north side of the mouth of
the river, opposite the village of
Fremantle, where word of the
shooting reached them.
Some miles up the river, at
Preston Point, Mr. John Weavill
o Continued on page 30)


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WADES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Owner E. R. Williams and
trainer T. J. Smith were not the
only ones surprised when 25-to-l
Castillo won Tattersall’s £2OOO
Cup (1| mile) at Randwick in the
slow time of 2.35? (due to
muddling tactics and the
apparent desire of most of the
eight riders to secure the last
run).
Castillo had been a moderate
performer since his win in the
1953 Queensland Derby. The
one glimpse of form in recent
outings had been his close second
at Rosehill early last month,
when he also started at 25 to 1
and was narrowly downed by
Royal Forest. He had shaped
poorly in two subsequent starts.
First leg of the Tattersall’s
double, the Carrington Stakes,
had proved a soft snap for Gay
Vista, who beat Stirrup Cup and
Triclinium. Doubles book-
makers had a skinner when
Castillo won the second leg, even
though Gay Vista started
favorite in the sprint.
Twelve months ago at Ascot
(Brisbane) Proletaire had an easy
win in the Christmas Handicap
(11 furlongs). He was then trans-
ferred to Sydney, and went into
the stables of Rosebery mentor
Reg Ferris after Maurice Mc-
Carten had tried him for some
weeks. Proletaire filled nine
minor platings and cost the
Ferris stable plenty before win-
ning his first Sydney race, the
Alfred Hill Handicap, on the
second day of the Tatt.’s Cup
fixture. Various jockeys, includ-
ing the stable apprentice E.
Clarke, who rides the horse in
all his work, had been tried
unsuccessfully to get a win from
the former Queenslander ; it was
left to Bill Fellows to bring him
home.
• • • •
Somebody missed a bargain
when Master Hua was put into
the Randwick yearling auction-
ring in April last year. Bidding
ceased at 225gn5., whereupon the
Hua colt was passed in. One of
the draft from St. Aubins stud
(Scone, N.S.W.), he is now raced
by W. J. Smith and John L.
Nixon, and is being trained at
Randwick by George Corrie,
who was sanguine of success in
the Tattersall’s Juvenile Novice,
in which the colt was well ridden
to victory by N. Sellwood. Bred
to stay, Master Hua thus won
Sydney’s first six-furlongs event
for two-year-olds. His dam, My
Miss, is by Manitoba (imp.) from
Snow Queen by Beau Pere (imp.).
He is closely related to Saluta-
tion, a winner of the New
Zealand Oaks.
Tattersall’s Two r year - old
Novice winner Spanish Fiesta is
another of the progeny of Kia-
Ora stud’s Delville Wood, and is
from a sister to Tranquil Star.
Flighty, dam of the Randwick
winner, is by Gay Lothario (imp.)
from Lone Star by Great Star
(imp.). The filly is trained at
Randwick by E. D. Lawson for
R. Baker and A. Young.
It is easy to criticise stewards
after the event. However, it
seemed that the A.J.C. stewards
at Randwick should have taken
hot-favorite Devil Dancer from
the Tattersall’s Nursery after
the filly had been involved in a
barrier mishap. The filly must
have been severely tried in run-
ning a close second to Sound Off.
Devil Dancer had won at her two
prior starts.
. „ • •
Four wins in as many starts
to his credit, Sydney youngster
Apple Bay could develop into a
fine sprinter. Prior to success
in TattersalFs New Year’s Gift
he had stylishly won in restricted
events, but he came through his
latest engagement (a three-year-
old event) with full honors.
Carrying 9st., he conceded
weight to recent winners. With
his brilliance he could win, say,
an Oakleigh Plate or a New-
market. The T. J. Smith stable
plans to set the Newtown Won-
der gelding for important Mel-
bourne and Sydney sprints in the
autumn. Maybe his major test
will be in the A.J.C. Challenge
Stakes (six furlongs) on January
29. The New Year’s Gift was
run at seven furlongs, and
Apple Bay had just about had
enough when the winning-post
was reached.
All seven favorites at Flem-
ington last Saturday were
beaten, while the winners in-
cluded 40-to-l Vernet, 25-to-l
Pushover, 16-to-l Aussie Bear
and 12-to-l Cowboy Bill. Four
of the losing favorites were
ridden by Jack Purtell. Two,
Lady Chloe and Planetarium,
started at odds-on.
Dark Silk, the only other
runner well back to beat odds-
on Lady Chloe in the V.R.C.
Stradbroke Stakes (two-year-
olds), duly landed the money.
An attractive black colt by
Empyrean (imp.) from Tres
Chic by Law Maker (imp.) from
Viennese by The Night Patrol
(imp.), Dark Silk was a 2600gns.
yearling at the Melbourne sales
in March last year. Raced by
N. H. Peel, he’s another mem-
ber of the successful F, W.
Hoysted stable, and is from a
sister to Ungar. He was bred
at Kismet Park, Sunbury (Vic.).
As it was only Dark Silk’s
second start, he should now go
on to further wins.
The V-R.C.’s Standish Handi-
cap, first leg of the New Year’s
Day double, has been won by
leading Melbourne trainer Fred
Hoysted on five occasions, and
his son Norman carried on the
good work on Saturday when
Cowboy Bill got there at 12
to 1. Cowboy Bill, raced by Sir
Rupert and Lady Clarke, was
having his second outing after a
spell. Fred Hoysted’s winners
of the Standish were Gay Saint,
Ungar (twice) and David’s Last
(twice). Favorite for Cowboy
Bill’s race was former Sydney
galloper Iroquois, who is costing
Melbourne racegoers a lot of
money; he has yet to win the
southern capital.
Auckland £12,500 Cup (two
miles), most important race of
the New Zealand Turf and run
at Ellerslie, was won by six-year-
old Arawa, a gelding by Ruthless
(imp.) from Foxola. The winner,
owned by Sir Ernest Davis, was
ridden by Grenville Hughes, who
has ridden with success in Mel-
bourne and is expected to soon
settle in the Victorian capital.
Arawa’s time, 3.19J-,' equalled
the race- and course-record.
Arawa and minor placegetters
Swift Gold and Rose of France
were all outsiders.
• • • •
Brisbane trainer A. Strong
secured a reasonably cheap
yearling at the New Zealand
sales last January when he paid
350gns. for the filly by Pheroz-
shah (imp.) from Miss Broiefort
by Broiefort (imp.) and now
racing as Pictawyn. She won
the Eagle Farm Two-year-old
Maiden for fillies in easy
fashion, starting second-favorite.
January and February are
important months in Tasmanian
racing. The Launceston Cup
carnival extends over January 22,
26 and 29, and the Flobart Cup
meeting will be on February 12,
16 and 19. There’s a combined
southern benefit race-meeting set
down for this coming Saturday
at the Elwick track, with four
Tassie clubs contributing to an
attractive programme.
A. Ward, now leading- the
riders in the Sydney competition-
table with 34 firsts, is in rare
form, and, of course, is getting
the pick of the mounts. He is
first jockey for leading trainer
T. J. Smith, who has a big team
in work at Randwick. Smith has
now won a record number of
races (40) for the first five months
of a season.
New Zealand’s national sales
of thoroughbred yearlings will
be held at Wellington on Mon-
day, January 17, and Thursday,
January 20, when 258 colts and
“ Anyway, Tiger, you’ve still got your memories.”
162 fillies will be submitted by
Wright Stephenson and Co.
Among the offerings will be full-
or near-relations of top-line
winners this season both in New
Zealand and Australia.
Rosebery trainer Leo O’Sulli-
van has the right idea with
horses. He goes where “the little
fish swim” and in the process
picks up many races. He often
finds his horses quoted at favor-
able odds. O’Sullivan is a regu-
lar at provincial and Newcastle
meetings, and at the latter track
on December 18 won races with
Petit Point and Red Flag.
O’Sullivan’s best results were
Gilltown’s wins in 1939 and 1940
Moonee Valley Cups, and latest
Carrington Stakes at Randwick
with favorite Gay Vista.
* * *
In the third Test, for the first
time this series, the captain
winning the toss elected to bat.
England found the pitch to have
the “life” in it that Hutton
expected to find, and didn t,
when he sent-in Australia in the
first Test. Miller, whom some
critics have long been writing-
off as a bowler despite his con-
tinuing to get good wickets, was
at his most devastating (3-5 at
one stage off 9 overs!). England
were 4-41, and all out 191.
Australia collapsed before the
pace-bowling of Tyson and
Statham, with some assistance
this time from spinners Apple-
yard and War die. The two
speed-men both come from the
same county, Lancashire: Tyson
was born in Lancs., but was
rejected by his own county, and
went instead to Northampton.
Tyson’s in good enough com-
pany: when Miller first tried-
out for Melbourne’s St. Kilda
club he was told he “wasn’t
good enough” for any of the
club’s five teams.
Cowdrey, with his classic 102
in a total of 181 made at the
time of his dismissal, put up the
first day’s best performance.
Bailey was next-best on the
English side, with a useful 30.
Cowdrey has batted well in the
three Tests, improving in each.
He’s certainly lived up to the
promise he showed when, at 13,
he played for Tonbridge school
at Lord’s, youngest player ever
to play there in what is regarded
in London as “an important
match.” (No other player in
the match was younger than 18,
and Cowdrey made 75 and 44,
and took 8-117.)
Last time an Australian
wicketkeeper had to be omitted
through injury was when Old-
field was struck on the head by
Larwood in the acrimonious
third 1932-33 Test; Bert took
no further part in that Test, and
was unfit for the fourth, in
which he was replaced by
“Hammy” Love, of Mosman
club (N.S.W.). Love did all
right —caught three in England’s
first innings—but it was thought
that either Victorian Ben
Barnett, who had to wait till
1938, or Charlie Walker (S.A.)
should have gone in. This
time, after Langley was hurt in
the S.A.-v-Queensland Shield
game, the selectors straightway
brought in the right man, Len
Maddocks, of Victoria. Mad-
docks “kept” well in England’s
first innings, and with the bat
on Saturday showed some of the
more seasoned batsmen how it
should have been done.
On the opening day of the
N.S.W. -v - Queensland Shield
game N.S.W. early crashed
badly. Briggs played a
“Cowdrey” knock, making a
round 100 out of a total of 199.
Young Manlysider Peter Phil-
pott, all-rounder, playing in his
first State game, stayed well
with Briggs for 71 ; Philpott has
been rapping on the State door
for some time.
• • •> •
In Sheffield Shield games Vic-
toria defeated N.S.W. outright
by 36 runs, and by close to the
same margin (34 runs) Queens-
land defeated S.A. outright. Vic-
toria, 352, 253; N.S.W., 206,
363. (Noteworthy effort,
Hawthorn spinner Alan Dick’s
eight wickets, including 5-31 in
the first innings.) Queensland,
338, 176 ; S.A., 262 (Hole 140),
218.
* * *
Australia lost the first two
singles of the 1939 Davis Cup,
but won the doubles and the
remaining two singles. (This was
the first time Australia had won
the Cup, though it had been
in these parts before that, when
Australia and N.Z. played
together as Australasia.) When
the competition was resumed in
1946, and for each year to 1949,
Australia every time again lost
the first two singles; and every
time there were fervent hopes
that “1939 would be repeated.”
It never was; nor was it in the
1954 Challenge Round, though
the same fervent hopes were
expressed.
The two Americans, Trabert
and Seixas, had played in their
first singles as effectively as had,
in 1939, Riggs and Parker
in demolishing, respectively,
Bromwich and Quist. The latter
pair began their fight back to
victory by defeating an inexperi-
enced doubles-pair, Kramer and
Hunt. Hoad and Rosewall in
their turn met an experienced,
tight-playing, determined pair,
playing to a pattern: driving
deep into the court, and smash-
ing away the return. The boys
tried hard —in one game, down
0-40 on Rosewall’s service,
actually saving four match-
points—but when the doubles
was over U.S.A. had won back
the Davis Cup.
• • •
Trabert and Seixas both played
tenaciously to win the first two
singles; each had to fight his
way out of trouble. The blustery
wind on that first day upset the
Australians’ game; Rosewall
especially, with his reliance on
passing shots and lobbing
accuracy, couldn’t cope with the
conditions. At the same time the
two Americans adapted their
play much better, and so deserved
to win.
• • • •
Trabert v. Hoad was of the
same pattern as their epic contest
last year, though it didn’t
produce as great a tension.
Trabert was far the more con-
sistent this time ; Hoad, brilliant
in patches, at times was listless.
Seixas, who’s been the weak
link in the past two or three
years (though always a pretty
strong “weak link”), played a
big part in the American win. In
his first singles he overcame the
Rosewall “hoodoo,” changing his
game to concentrate on Rose-
wall’s forehand, forcing him
more and more into error. And
he was the dominant partner in
the doubles.
The two concluding singles
were won by Australia (U.S.A.
thus winning 3-2); but it was
easy to see that the Americans
were “coasting.” Nevertheless
Rosewall played really well to
defeat Trabert, in straight sets,
the only rubber not to be decided
in four sets ; and Hartwig, in
place of an injured Hoad, after
looking the loser in the first set
and early in the second, played
a good all-round game to beat
Seixas.
Results: Trabert beat Hoad,
6-4, 2-6, 12-10, 6-3 ; Seixas beat
Rosewall, 8-6, 6-8, 6-4, 6-3;
Seixas-Trabert beat Hoad-
Rosewall, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2, 10-8;
Rosewall beat Trabert, 9-7, 7-5,
6-3 ; Hartwig beat Seixas, 4-6,
6-3, 6-2, 6-3.
After the war the U.S.A. held
the Cup for four years, till the
then-rising stars Sedgman and
McGregor (with Bromwich help-
ing in the doubles) brought it
back in 1950. Australia, too,
kept it for four years. The
history of the Cup shows that a
winning country often holds on
to it for a stretch of years ; still,
it’s quite on the cards that the
rosebowl will be on its way back
here later this year.
“Kooyong”: In the Challenge
Round Hartwig defeated Seixas,
Seixas defeated Rosewall, Rose-
wall defeated Trabert and
Trabert defeated Hoad. But does
this automatically make Hartwig
No. 1 seed?
* * *
The cutter Kurrewa IV,
“mother-ship” of the race, was
first across the finishing-line of
the Sydney-Hobart yacht-race.
As Morna she’d been first across
in 1946, 1947 and 1948. Despite
bad weather and a broken back-
stay, torn mainsail, etc.,
Kurrewa finished the 680-mile
course in five days 6 hrs. 9 min.,
nearly 27 hours better than the
record established in 1951 by
Margaret Rintoul. The next
half-dozen or so yachts also
beat that time. The sloop Solveig
won the race on handicap.


The Picture Today
Korea and Its Problems
By "EK DUM"
J~\ FTER four years, during
f I which Korea has been in
| the news every second
day, its name has slipped
out of print, without many
people having learnt anything
much about it.
The whole of Korea—north
and south together—is about
2000 square miles smaller than
Victoria ; its pre-World War II
population 23 million. It is one
qf the world’s strategic areas, and
must continue so as long as East
and West are divided.
To Japanese eyes it is, and
always has been, a “dagger pre-
sented at the heart of Nippon.”
To Asia it is the land-bridge to
Japan; to the Communists a
stepping-stone for the control
and intimidation of that country.
To the Koreans themselves it
is a homeland cut in halves, its
north occupied by an enemy ; its
south subject to the inconveni-
ences of a defensive foreign
Occupation, no matter what
Western money and modern
facilities may be poured into it
in consequence.
Not that the South Korean
is concerned about the Occupa-
tion discomforts. A year or so
ago, when the writer was there,
the main stock question asked
eagerly by every South Korean
was, “Do you think the Ameri-
cans will leave us presently at
Communist mercy?” And since
retirement of the U.N.O. allies
would mean exactly that, it seems
that the West must sit pat in
South Korea for a long time if
the Red tide is not to be allowed
to flow southward to Pusan,
within 15 minutes’ bomber-
flight of the Japanese coast.
And it is difficult to achieve a
condition of security while at the
same time establishing some sort
of permanent policy of progress,
especially with the most indus-
trialised half of the country cut
off.
A very distinguished woman-
graduate Korean said quite truly
that South Korea must live for a
long time much like a log-cabin
housewife in the American west
of the 1850’s —with a loaded rifle
on the kitchen-dresser while it
goes about its chores. Its people
must live, its children must grow
up amidst an economy fed by
transfusions from outside the
country and constructed with one
eye to the possibility that at any
minute it may be swept away by
a spate of tanks or MiG’s.
It is a very trying way of
living which might be fatal to
any other people but the
Koreans, who are a tough, tight
little race, without much senti-
ment about internationalism, but
with a very real one about their
own home. In fact, the Koreans
are a very domesticated race, in
many ways much like the Swiss.
Australian troops knew some of
them at their worst during World
War II when Koreans served
with the Japanese ; but they saw
them also at their best in the
trying conditions of their native
land in the years after 1951.
They showed themselves to be
a merry people in the worst of
circumstances, a tough people, a
tidy people who could not
occupy a headquarters without
building neat and artistically
planned pictorial gardens round
it, even in the most adverse
circumstances—the 3rd Battalion
of the Royals took over one of
these in Fort George on the
Imjin front.
They are a musical people
always singing gay folksongs,
which, like Japanese music, but
unlike any other Asiatic music,
can be appreciated by the
Western ear —songs that sound
like lively waltzes, instrumental
music which is food for the
National Symphony Orchestra in
Seoul, which has always been the
pride and joy of the Korean
heart, even during the generation
in which the Japanese tried to
integrate Korea into Japan and
destroy its individuality.
In that effort the conquerors
certainly did not succeed, as they
were first to admit. For the
Korean seems to thrive on
destruction, however uncomfort-
able it may be, and has condi-
tioned himself to reconstruction
and division as successfully as
the lizards do to losing their tails.
Everybody within reach seems
to have destroyed Korea at some
time. The Chinese ravaged the
place in the dawn of history.
Genghis Khan plundered it
empty. At the beginning of the
17th century the Japanese beat
and burned flat every town and
village in the peninsula. But less
than half a century later North
China had to do the job over
again.
So a Japanese occupation of
35 years was not of much con-
sequence, and the war of 1950-54
was merely another puzzle
stepped into beside the long road
of history.
Now the war is over the
Korean is quite ready to resume
his life among the interminable
mountains which make up his
country’s terrain, and in the
worst parts of which, according
to a national saying, the tigers
come out in summer and eat the
farmers and the farmers go in
in winter and perforce eat the
tigers, to make up for the lack
of grain, of which there is dire
scarcity when the bitter Man-
churian wind blows and what
seems like the coldest snow in
the world lies in the valleys.
Coming back to peace now,
however, means a great deal of
change for the Korean.
Of yore rehabilitation was a
simple process. The Korean
collected enough straw to thatch
a new hut to replace the burnt
one, reploughed the narrow
paddy-fields, acquired a new
“A”-frame (the typical imple-
ment on which a Korean carries
loads which would reduce a
European to a concertina), and
replanted the lovely gardens—
for Korea is the Eden of some
of the loveliest specimens of
plant-life, the azalea and the
Japanese blossom-cherry.
He then resumed the old
culture natural to a race which
had rain-gauges before Europe
thought of them, an encyclo-
paedia before almost any other
nation on earth, an alphabet
which ensured literacy well
ahead of the nations which deal
in ideograms, movable type half
a century before Gutenberg
“invented” it, and the ironclads
of Yi Sun-sin which wiped out
a Japanese fleet more than
300 years before Admiral
Rodjesvensky came to grief.
But this time South Korea will
emerge as a modern nation, with
the civil-law system which it
adopted from continental
Europe and developed, the
hospitals and schools which it
has acquired from the West, the
machinery of industry which it
has learned to use, added to its
other natural resources and
sparse engineering potential.
It has become inured to
Western ways, accustomed to
Western contacts, after having
been the most aloof and isolated
nation on earth outside Tibet.
It will continue to maintain
diplomatic and trade relation-
ships with the countries of
U.N.O. —it has a Consul-
General in Australia. Its world
propaganda, developed under
American coaching, but charac-
teristically Korean, is among the
best in the world.
Yet its policy remains, as
always, a stout, sturdy and
patriotic one, in which the first
principle laid down by President
Syngman Rhee reads:
Self-help: To the largest extent
practical Korea should be recon-
structed from Korean resources, by
Korean labor, through Korean
initiative.
The task does not look very
simple. Firstly, the 600,000
Korean homes destroyed in the
war have to be replaced as
rapidly as possible as a first
necessity. Even admitting that
a house in Korea does not mean
the same as in Australia, this is
no light task, especially since the
limited coal-production was
reduced to nothing at one stage,
and the electricity potential of
one plant, Yeung-wol, for
example, was whittled down
from 120,000 kw. to 8000 kw.
When the war ended, all the
country’s textile-, rubber- and
cement-plants were out of gear;
all its fertiliser and clothing
sources needed reconstituting.
The Government, with the help
of its foreign advisers, is not
being content with mere restora-
tion. It is setting out upon plans
to clothe Koreans from local
rice-straw rayon, to expand the
mineral industries and the export
of, particularly, tungsten, to
develop the fisheries beyond their
pre-war levels, to clean out rivers
and build for prevention of
floods —an ever-present source
of heavy loss, apart from the
waste of farmlands due to the
existence of huge flats along the
peculiar rivers, which flats are
inundated annually to the extent
of perhaps 150,000 acres, with
25,000 houses under water or
swept away.
In the year of record loss
340,000 acres were flooded,
338,000 tons of crop lost and
176,000 houses submerged. But
by dredging the badly silted
rivers, by dyking and piping off
water it is hoped to mend this
position, while at the same time
providing irrigation-water for
parched areas.
On top of that there is a
reafforestation programme which
calls for the setting-out of 460
million saplings.
The job is being attacked in a
brave and workmanlike way,
with some lavishness by Asiatic
standards, and with an overlaid
cultural and health programme,
the whole, economic and
cultural, being tied to spending
which by June 30 last, under the
agreement signed with the
United Nations Command on
December 14 last year, had
reached near to £A2SO million.
The basic theory has been that
relief-expenditures should be
kept at a minimum to provide
for pouring the maximum
amount of capital into the con-
struction of the new Korean
industrial set-up, a process which
is not made easier by the natural
tendency to inflation in such an
unstable economy.
This is especially difficult,
seeing that the application of
free-market principles is part of
the creed of the reconstructors.
The free-market price, it was
announced at the beginning,
is to apply to “aid goods”
whenever possible ; and the price
was never to be allowed to sag
below the landed cost plus cost
of distribution.
In consonance with these prin-
ciples, and the aim of making
Korea self-supporting as quickly
as possible, it was certainly
somewhat of a task to peg
currency in a place in which, at
the end of 1953, retail prices, in
terms of the local hwan, had
increased 7200 per cent, since
1947, and there were spectacular
price-increases in progress in
such essentials as cement- and
steel-products.
Success in the programme is
naturally only qualified and
subject to severe setbacks. How-
ever, everything considered, and
despite the unrest caused by an
inescapable flow of propaganda
and propagandists and saboteurs
from the Communist north to
contend with, the programme is
being more -or - less steadily
moulded into shape from the
ground upwards.
In the agricultural and forestry
field, apart from the immense
plantings going on, plans are
well forward for an £8,000,000
fertiliser-plant to turn out
320,000 tons of ammonium-
sulphate a year, with other
fertilisers.
The coal-programme, very
nearly realised, called for
1,000,000 tons of coal to be pro-
duced this year, against the war-
time low of 116,000 tons in 1951.
The ultimate coal-target for the
present is 2,400,000 tons. It was
proposed to turn the Samchok
cement-works output of 72,000
tons in 1953 into 300,000 tons
during 1954. Some of these
projects are only in the paper
stage yet.
Altogether U.N.K.R.A., the re-
habilitation agency, budgeted to
outlay about £4O million on its
industrial task in the year 1954.
In 1954 Korea’s own part of
the financial effort was naturally
relatively small, but most impres-
sive having regard to the general
state of the country and its
defence needs. It laid aside
about £2O million out of its own
resources for the year and
another £lOO million for 1955 —
sums which look comparatively
small to Australian eyes, and
especially beside the £4OO million
three-four-year U.S. programme,
but which are not so small in
terms of Asiatic costs, especially
of labor.
All plans depend for realisa-
tion on U.N. countries keeping
their financial promises, which
in some cases have been slow of
realisation. Great Britain,
Canada, Australia and the United
States were prompt to meet their
obligations, but the Micawber-
like attitude of the rest —some
of which seemed to feel that any
time would do for payment,
while others regarded their
promises as liquidated when
made—has resulted in consider-
able slashing of immediate
aspirations.
And the manpower problem
is a live one. Apart from 130,000
South Koreans killed, only
15,909 of the 166,000 captured
by the Communists, according
to Seoul’s statistics, have been
returned or accounted for under
the armistice agreement.
Red-tape, again, has bogged
down a lot of progress; but
that progress has nevertheless
been swift is shown by the fact
that even up to last February
the 2,000,000 receiving a free
ration in the war-torn country
had been reduced to 800,000.
And the reduction has been sub-
stantial since.
This winter the preoccupation
of the Korean Government has
become once more the danger
from the north, as U.N.O. forces
are being withdrawn—about
seven U.S. divisions have gone
out since just before the
armistice, and nothing the South
Koreans can do can replace these
100,000 men and their
tremendous air-support thus lost.
The Communists are alleged to
be building up their strength—
to have added over 100,000 men
to the North Korean forces,
together with 300 heavy guns and
a background of 36 new airfields,
since July, 1953, and within a
few miles of the demilitarisation
zone. They are supposed to have
six air-force divisions, including-
-255 jet-fighters and 42 medium-
bombers, against the 85
obsolescent F-51’s owned by the
South Koreans.
But this nervousness is pro-
duced by proximity to the enemy
rather than by the reality of any
apprehension that South Korea
would be deserted in real crisis.
Any all-out attack on South
Korea would have a significance
that it did 1 not have before. It
would certainly be taken in
Washington and London as a
signal that the Communists were
aiming for world war, and would
be met by the United States,
without doubt, with a preventive
attack on China.
FOUR SLANTS ON JACK SPRING
I.
The day the back lavatory
Went down the creek,
Boys looked from the orchard
And up strode Jack.
“There’s ten bob in silver
For the first son of mine
To own that he pushed it
And speak like a man.”
“Father, I did it.
I only meant
To ease her a little
And in she went.
“That’s ten bob, father.”
“Now hear me, son:
I’ve five white florins
For Washington
“And the father of a hiding
Unless you prove to me
The father of George Washington
Was up the cherry tree.”
11.
Twice a week Molly
Swung a yellow light
As a sign that the old man
Would die that night;
And in the white ranges
Stringy-bark Jack
Saddled his pony
And rode to the shack.
“You eat like a horse, Jack;
Father would die
If he could see the tucker-bill.”
Jack said, “Why
Not show it to him, Molly?
Then I can stay home
For there’s fly in the wethers
And the bay mare’s lame.”
A.C.T.
When the old man died
And the will was read,
Jack put his hat on
And scratched his head.
“He promised me the orchard.
May his soul,” cried Jack,
By some wandering dogman
Be shot for a hawk.”
111.
Jack Spring went
To his old man’s wake
And one by one
They stood and spoke
Of the dead man’s virtues;
And up stood Jack
And drank his rum
And wiped his eye
And said, “There, gentlemen,
In death you see
The best hand with a cattle pup
On the Murrumbidgee.”
IV.
When the buyer came down
To buy Jack’s goats,
They’d stripped the gumtrees
To the roots;
They’d cropped the beards
At their throats.
‘Let’s see,” said Jack;
“There’s half of ’em gone!
Where’s Molly’s blue goat
And Henry’s roan?
Where’s the little white kid
Of Sylvia Anne?
“Just now,” Jack said,
“They were hereabout,
(Where’s my bony goat?)
But your luck’s out.
Where’s grandmamma’s
Old hairy goat?”
DAVID CAMPBELL.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
The book of 1000
tongues
Last year a society of 4,954
B'ible salesmen distributed
more than 15 million Bibles,
in 144 languages to people in
48 countries, risking death in
jungles and on South Sea Is-
lands to spread God’s Word.
In January Reader’s Digest,
highlights from the society’s
annals tell the story of this
astonishing publishing venture.
January Reader’s Digest
brings you thirty other stimu-
lating articles, including “Don’t
let etiquette stop you”, “Can
we farm the ocean?” “Twenty
questions on dogs.” Plus a 24-
page book condensation of
foreign correspondent Harrison
Salisbury’s “Russia Re-Viewed”.
Don’t miss January Reader’s
Digest on sale now 1/6 at
all newsagents and bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EUROPEAN BUSINESS BOOM
“U.S. News and World
Report” comment on Europe’s
“new mood of confidence, self-
assurance, even exuberance”:
“Industrial production [in
Europe] climbed 9 per cent,
in a year when U.S. output fell
by almost precisely the same
amount. The boom has lifted
300 million Europeans to levels
of prosperity never before known
oh their side of the Atlantic.
People are producing more,
earning more, selling more
abroad and living better than
ever in their history. The busi-
ness peaks of 1929 and 1951 both
have been surpassed.
“For the first time since World
War 11, prices are steady while
production soars. Inventories
are normal. Not a sign of infla-
tion has appeared, even in
France, which is accustomed to
chronic inflation.
“The forward surge in the
midst of a U.S. decline has
imbued Europeans with a feeling
of strength and independence.
Together with growing military
power under the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation, the new
prosperity is restoring Europe's
belief in itself.
“For the U.S., Europe’s new
mood means new problems in
its relations with its allies. The
Europeans take less kindly now
to American advice and leader-
ship. They welcome President
Eisenhower’s new policy of the
‘good partner,’ which has made
the U.S. seem more like a silent
partner in recent months.
“In such matters as East-West
trade or South-East Asia affairs,
there is to be more consultation
by U.S. with its allies. Co-
existence with Russia, recogni-
tion of Communist China,
atomic development—all the
major issues of world affairs are
beginning to see Europeans shar-
ing more and more with the
U.S. the making of policy
decisions for the West that
Washington once made alone.
“The whole thing goes back
to the business boom which itself
has come as a surprise to the
experts on both sides of the
Atlantic. Hardly a month goes
by now without some new record
being set in Europe.
“Steel-production in Britain is
climbing toward a rate of 20
million tons a year. Italian
automobile output has gained
31 per cent, over 1953. The
percentage of unemployment in
Germany is lower than in the
United States. France’s gold and
dollar reserves have gone above
the $ 1000-million mark.
“Sleek new automobiles fill the
traffic-jammed streets of ancient
European capitals from London
to Berlin. Europe this year will
produce more than 2.5 million
passenger-cars and trucks. The
Continent is getting its first taste
of an economic revolution that
the U:S. experienced when mass-
production of automobiles hit
its stride in the ’twenties.
“In Britain, a million
television-sets have been sold in
12 months. The home-building
record of 1937 is being matched
with 350,000 dwellings going up.
The last rationing restrictions
have gone and British tourists
are roaming the Continent again.
“In France, the number of
automobile-owners has jumped
700,000 in 36 months, a 50 per
cent. rise. Home-building, after
years of the doldrums, is 60 per
cent, over 1953. With 190,000
dwellings scheduled for com-
pletion, 1954 looks like the
second-biggest building-year in
French history.
“In Holland, Switzerland,
Britain and the four Scandi-
navian countries, unemployment
is down to 1 per cent, or less —
smaller than the minimum
hitherto thought possible.
German exports are expected to
cross the 5-billion-dollar mark
this year. Sales abroad have
jumped 46 per cent, for German
automobiles and 38 per cent, for
electric machinery in 12 months.
Austria, a chronically sick
country until 1953, has quad-
rupled its foreign-exchange
reserves.
“The economists advance
many reasons for Europe’s seem-
ing immunity to the decline in
the U.S. But one factor
dominates the scene: Europe’s
productive-power, helped by
years of U.S. aid, finally has been
restored and revitalised.
“In every country and in every
industry, war losses have been
more than replaced. Plant-
capacity is at an all-time high.
Productivity is on the rise. New
spindles are replacing old ; auto-
matic lathes are displacing hand-
machines. Output is climbing
faster than employment and
hours worked. The work-week
now exceeds 48 hours in
Germany and Holland, 47 hours
in Switzerland, 45 in Britain, 44
in France and Austria.
“The growing productive-
power has lessened Europe’s
dependence on U.S. food, fuel,
raw materials and machinery.
Aid grants from America no
longer are needed except in a
few hardship areas such as
Berlin. Otherwise, no new U.S.
economic aid is being asked or
granted.
“Europe can and does pay its
own way at last. The smoking
factories of the Ruhr and
Lorraine, Milan and Manchester
are pouring staggering quantities
of goods into world markets.
Sales abroad by European
countries have almost doubled
in volume since the first year of
the Marshall Plan and are now
at the rate of nearly $30,000
million a year. Between the first
half of 1953 and the first half
of 1954, sales to the U.S. dropped
13 per cent, in value. But for
each dollar of lost sales to the
United States the Europeans
gained more than $2 in increased
selling to other overseas areas.
“For Americans, as U.S.
officials see it, the chief objective
of U.S. policy of the last decade
now seems within reach —a
vigorous Europe capable of con-
taining the Communists at home
and able to fill a role in the world
as a full partner of the United
States.”
Peaceful Coexistence
Asked by two “New York
Times” correspondents to define
“coexistence,” U.S. Senator
Knowland replied:
“One of the great problems
confronting the world today is
that the term has a different
meaning for different people. It
is the same problem that we ran
into at Yalta and some of the
other conferences where they
talked about free elections.
“Our definition of a free elec-
tion was different from the
Communist definition of a free
election in Poland, for example,
and, because it was not spelled
out and clearly defined, the
Communists took a perfectly
good word or two and twisted
them to their own meaning. They
call their totalitarian Communist
Governments people’s democra-
cies. They are neither run by
the people nor are they
democracies.
“So that the term ‘peaceful
coexistence,’ as I believe the
Soviet Union has used it, is not
a new term. Lenin used it, and
it has been used by the Soviet
hierarchy ever since that time.
I think what they mean by it is
that the free nations of the world
will be able to exist or coexist
until they either subvert them
from within or successfully com-
mit overt aggression on them
from without.
“Consequently, I think it
would be a fatal policy to go
into any conference with the
N. Y. “Herald Tribune.”
PERHAPS HE COULD HELP?
Soviet Union on a policy of
so-called peaceful coexistence
unless we and our allies had
pretty clearly defined just what
it was we were going to consider,
and be sure that the Soviet
Union had the same interpreta-
tion of it that we had.”
British
Fighter-production
Mentioned in the cables the
other day as causing some
concern, the lag in British fighter-
production is ascribed to various
causes by London “Economist.”
“It has become increasingly
plain,” the “Economist” notes,
“that something was wrong with
fighter deliveries as planned in
the 1950-51 rearmament pro-
gramme.
“Canberra bombers had come
into service on schedule;
Viscounts and Comets were
delivered to the airlines and went
into service on time, but the new
fighters, the Swifts and Hunters
ordered early in 1951 and
evolved each from a long line of
prototypes, are still [lagging],
and their record raises fears that
the pattern may be repeated
when the time comes to deliver
the big bombers, the all-weather
fighters, and the supersonic
generation of machines already
treading on their heels.
“The responsibility for this
sorry record is divided fairly
equally between the Ministries
involved and the aircraft-
industry. Some of the reasons
for delay go right back to 1951,
when the performance require-
ments for the two fighters were
first drawn up. These were a
great deal less stringent than the
standard of performance that the
same aircraft are expected to
meet today.
“The power of the Avon
engines in the fighters has risen
from 65001 b. thrust to a figure
in the region of 10,0001 b. The
standard 20mm. cannon have
been replaced by heavier, faster
firing, more powerful 30mm.
cannon that were themselves
only on the drawing-board when
the fighters were ordered. Radio,
too, has changed, and combat
altitudes and relative speeds.
“However much ‘stretch’ may
have been designed into the two
machines —and the evidence
suggests it was not too great—
these changes in elements outside
the designer’s control mean modi-
fications ; modifications mean
time and time means delays.
Some delay has therefore been
inevitable. Its cause lies in the
relaxation of international
tension that gave the Services
time to reconsider their require-
ments in the light of new
technical advances.
“Other delays, however, have
been due to defects in the aircraft
themselves. Almost all aircraft
go through the equivalent of
teething-troubles, but some are
affected more seriously than
others. The Swift has had a
fairly unfortunate history of
minor ailments, the Hunter has
had to undergo one major modi-
fication and its equipment has
needed adjustment. This is
where the industry must bear
a big share of the blame for
delivery delays. It is difficult not
to believe that the most serious
troubles of the two fighters could
not have been recognised far
sooner than appears to have been
the case.
“This is, after all, the purpose
of test-flying. Earlier and more
vigorous action in the factories
to correct defects in design could
have cut months off the time it is
going to take to get these
machines into service. In the
industry there seems to have
been a general, and understand-
ably human, reluctance to
acknowledge that the designs
were capable of, or indeed.
needed, improvement, and the
faults in either aircraft do not
seem to have come to light until
they were handed over for testing
by Service representatives.
“In some other countries’ air
forces these troubles are allowed
to work themselves out as the
aircraft goes into service. The
test-flying that brings such
defects to light is done in this
country [Britain] at research-
establishments owned by the
Government, although the pilots
are many of them Service pilots.
In other countries this procedure
is simply replaced by what
amounts to test-flying by certain
selected squadrons. This gives
the impression of rapid aircraft
development and delivery, and it
quickly accumulates a substantial
volume of test-flying experience
on any given aircraft. The
British procedure is slower, more
methodical and probably less
costly in terms of Service pilots.
A trained test-pilot is less likely
to come to harm in a new and
temperamental machine than an
enthusiastic Service flyer.
“There is no reason to believe
that delays occur at the produc-
tion-stage. Tooling and produc-
tion seem as rapid here as in any
other country; fresh modifica-
tions have in fact led to the
piling-up of half-finished aircraft
and parts in factories while new
drawings were prepared. The
Hawker factories producing
Hunters contain two- or three-
hundred complete and half-
complete machines waiting for
their new dive-brakes. The
danger period lies rather in the
interval after the first machine
has flown and before it is cleared
for service—in other words dur-
ing development flying.
“During this period, the test-
aircraft has to serve two masters;
it belongs to the manufacturer
who built and designed it, it is
also the special concern of the
Ministry of Supply. It is test-
flown by the civilian pilots
employed by the manufacturer
to see that it meets the design
specifications. It is test-flown
by the Service pilots at Govern-
ment experimental establish-
ments to test its efficiency as a
fighting machine, and it is at
this second test-stage, after the
civil pilots have done their work,
that most troubles come to light.
“A heavy responsibility
therefore rests on the manufac-
turers ; if their testing pro-
grammes are not sufficiently
comprehensive, defects in per-
formance that should have come
to light earlier will go undetected
until the aircraft has passed out
of their hands and into those of
the Government’s test-establish-
ments.
“This is what seems to have
happened with both the Swift
and the Hunter. Fortunately,
there is no evidence yet to
suggest that it will happen with
other aircraft on order, even
though some, like the Javelin,
have had considerable develop-
ment difficulties. These were
foreseen, and the Javelin is
running on schedule.”
Uranium Gift
As the “U.S. News and World
Report” sets it out, the idea
behind America’s gift-offer of
2201 b. of processed uranium—
enough for 11 atom-bombs —
“is to put more of the world’s
brain-power to work on finding
peace-time uses for the atom,
using U.S. materials for research
in new parts of the world”:
“As a practical matter, the
uranium to be given away will be
made ‘not adaptable for military
use.’ It will not be shipped until
each recipient country signs a
detailed security-agreement with
U.S. Not much will go to any
one country.
“The 2201 b. is far from an
insignificant amount. It costs
about $2,000,000 to produce. If
used as atomic fuel, in theory,
it could produce in an efficiently
built atomic generator about
250,000 million kilowatt-hours
of electric-power, or as much as


/
A
F*
\
I
77
%
r
Higher than man had flown before
One day, in 1932, Captain Cyril
Uwins flew higher than any man had
flown before. By reaching a height of
43,976 ft. in a Vickers Vespa biplane,
fitted with a Bristol Pegasus engine,
he brought the world’s aeroplane
altitude record to Britain for the
first time.
The special fuel used on the flight
was developed and prepared at
A.1.0.C.’s Sunbury Research Station.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to
keep pace with future developments
and demands, it is ready at all times
to provide aviation fuels speedily and
efficiently.
.AVIATION
urn
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
1/54
is produced by all of the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority’s hydro-
electric generators in a month.
“Yet the whole amount of
processed uranium involved, if
brought together, would make a
sphere only B£in. in diameter,
about the size of a soccer-ball.
Grey in color, ‘greasy’ in tex-
ture, this metal is much heavier
than lead, 24 times as valuable
as gold.
“Shipments, when made, will
be in very small quantities, pro-
tected by thick metal containers
and armed U.S. guards. Con-
signments will go directly to the
receiving countries, not first to
an international clearing-house.
“Before any shipments take
place, however, some inter-
national organisation is to be
set up to administer a world-
wide research-programme, one
which has some connection, as
yet undefined, with the United
Nations. Then separate security-
treaties, now required by Con-
gress, must be signed between
U.S. and each receiving country.
“That’s all to take probably a
year, at least, before any gifts
of U.S. uranium actually are
shipped.
“The atomic material then is
to be directed into experimental
research, largely by countries
which have no big atomic pro-
grammes at this time. This, in
turn, means the building of
dozens of new atomic furnaces
around the world.
“Research projects, for this
first offer of U.S. uranium, are
expected to run into the hun-
dreds. Most are likely to involve
ways of producing cheap atomic
power for commercial use. But
other things are to be sought as
well —atomic medicines, medi-
cal- and research-tools, atomic
fertilisers, new industrial uses,
for the atom. No limit is to be
placed on experiments except
the ban on making atomic
arms.”
Spain
F. A. Voigt, author, and editor
of London “Nineteenth Century
and After” from 1938-46, was
pro-Republican during the
Spanish civil war. As London
“Daily Telegraph” notes, his
views have since changed and,
writing in that paper on Spain
today, Voigt explains why.
During the civil war Franco’s
forces called their opponents
“Reds”; the other side called
Franco’s followers “Fascists.”
“Both terms are misleading,”
Voigt comments. “For the sake
of convenience, call them
National and Republican”:
“Franco’s National forces
were victorious in the end,
because they subordinated all
‘ideologies’ (including Fascism)
and all regional nationalisms to
the cause of Spain as a nation.
This preserved their unity, even
after the war was won.
“The Republicans, on the other
hand, were not able to sustain
an overriding cause. The savage
battle of ‘ideologies,’ which
began soon after the Republic
was established, raged with
growing intensity on Republican
territory during the civil war.
All chances of an honorable
peace (for which there was con-
siderable secret support on both
sides) were wrecked by the Com-
munists, who, strong beyond the
strength of numbers, because
they, rather than the Republican
Government, had the direct
support of the Kremlin, pursued
one supreme purpose —to
prolong the war.
“The civil war was bloody
and destructive, and far more
men perished by massacre than
in battle. In Madrid alone the
Republicans executed some
40,000 of their political
opponents. The murder of
priests and the burning of
churches were the rule on
Republican territory, though not
in the land of the Basques. The
National forces also executed
political opponents en masse,
and continued to do so for some
time after the Republican battle-
front had collapsed.
Now that more than 15 years
have passed since the civil war’s
end, we can judge the conse-
quences by considering the
present condition of Spain.
“Spain has been washed in
blood, and she has been washed
clean —clean of all the ‘ideologies’
that were her greatest affliction,
whether they were specifically
Spanish, like Anarchism, or
international, like Socialism and
Communism. Even Fascism has
been washed away, for the
Falangistas on Republican
terxitory (which included Spain's
two largest cities, Madrid and
Barcelona) were massacred and
the party that survived retains
only a few dregs of its Fascist
content.'’
Today, Voigt continues, Spain
is a “benevolent despotism”
recalling, in some ways, England
under the Tudors —“a similar
deep aversion from anarchy,
sedition and civil war, and a
similar general desire for lasting
tranquillity under a strong
Government.”
Franco and the regime are dis-
cussed freely, even with strangers,
and the Spaniards, never servile,
are far from cowed: “They do
not, as they talk, look around
lest any agent or informer be
listening. The despotism,
although severe, is neither
terroristic no r discernibly
inquisitorial. But even those who
discuss it in caustic terms, as
many do, admit that the only
alternative is civil war.”
Although the severity of the
regime has eased during the last
few years, there has been no
revival, or desire for revival, of
the “ideologies”:
“Communism is, perhaps, in
a slightly different case; the
existence of the Soviet Union
saves it from oblivion. No doubt
there is in some regions of Spain,
especially in the more prosperous
industrial north, something of a
Communist mood with a vague
dream of wealth common to all
and of the Soviet Union as the
land of the future. But it is a
mood, not a movement. There
is probably not a land in Europe
securer against Communism than
is Spain.”
Noting “a distinct bias in
favor of ‘welfare,’ thanks largely
to the church,” and the fact
that “nowhere else in Europe is
there a more willing spirit than
there is among the Spanish
workers today,” Voigt con-
cludes :
“Those who have known the
Third Reich, Fascist Italy or
countries under Communist
domination will be struck in
Spain today by the absence of
fear, of suspicion and of propa-
ganda. It is true that [Franco’s]
head is on the stamps and
pictures of him constantly appear
in the press, but the purpose of
such publicity is ceremonial
rather than propagandist; it has
more analogy with the tributes
paid to royalty in the British
Commonwealth than with the
enforced deification of a Hitler,
a Mussolini or a Stalin. Spain
is no longer the land of slogans
as she was under the Republic.
“Considering her recent
history, it is astonishing that
Spain should have preserved her
organic structure. There is still
an aristocracy (though modest in
terms of wealth) and a middle-
class with its own pride. But
every class including the
peasants, who comprise the
greater part of the population,
and urban labor —has its own
pride and an aristocratic touch.
“The only defence against the
domination and exploitation of
one class by another, namely, the
balance of classes, has been pre-
served as in few other countries.
There is a singular absence of
that envy which is, perhaps, the
greatest of the evils injected by
the modern ‘ideologies’ and,
although in some regions
poverty is extreme, that con-
tented poverty which seems to
have vanished from other
Western countries is still wide-
spread in Spain.
“The present regime is
admittedly one of transition.
Transition to what? Not to
democracy, which would be
regarded as retrograde in Spain,
although the Spaniard would not
suggest that democracy is not
best for Great Britain or the
United States. He would only
urge, in the light of long and
hard experience, that for Spain,
democratic institutions and
Parliamentary government mean
civil war.
“The broad trend, fostered by
the regime itself, is towards a
restored monarchy which will, so
it is hoped with some confidence,
place the Spanish order on a
basis of legitimacy and give it a
permanence which no dictator
and no party or combination of
parties can give.”
U.S.-China Treaty
Typical U.S. and British press
comment on Uncle Sam’s
mutual-defence treaty with
Nationalist China:
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”: “The
treaty does not alter the foreign
policy of the United States, nor
does it change the immediate
situation in the Far East. What
it does is to make it clear,
‘beyond a peradventure of a
doubt,’ in Mr. Dulles’s words,
‘that Formosa and the Pesca-
dores are not on the bargain-
counter for international trad-
ing.’
“The new treaty is on the
model of other treaties of the
sort; it does not provide for
automatic action in defiance of
American Constitutional prac-
tice if Formosa is assaulted, and
does not set down precisely
what the United States will do
in such -a case. The guarantees
of the pact do not extend beyond
Formosa itself and the near-by
Pescadores, but provide that it
may be extended later to other
territory owing allegiance to the
Nationalist Government.
“Then, in a practical sense,
the treaty will not go further
than the American Government
has already gone in offering
assistance to Chiang Kai-shek.
The status of the Nationalist-
held islands near the mainland
remains the same—the United
States may or may not inter-
vene in case of a major Red
attack on the Tachens or the
Quemoys. It is neither bound
to take action nor debarred from
doing so.”
* * *
O. H. Brandon in London
“Sunday Times” : “The [U.S.]
Administration told Chiang Kai-
shek that he could have a
mutual-defence pact only if it
excluded the offshore islands
and was limited to a defensive
alliance. As it now stands, the
treaty can be interpreted as
leaving the door open for Chiang
to liberate China (though every-
one knows he could not attempt
it without American help, which
is now definitely denied); at the
same time it can also be read as
divorcing the problem of For-
mosa from that of China, with
a view to creating an indepen-
dent State of Formosa, thus
leaving a possibility of some
ultimate accommodation with
Peking. But, in the present
atmosphere, the pact is more a
warning than an invitation.”
* * *
London “Observer”: “The
treaty is explicitly defensive.
What is more, it contains no
reference to Quemoy or to the
other islands held by the
Nationalists whose proximity to
the mainland makes them useful
for harassing Peking’s shipping,
but liabilities in the defence of
Formosa itself.
“The American mood has
been considerably changed
recently by the emergence of
President Eisenhower as a firm
and calm leader, knowing the
meaning of war and determined
to maintain peace. The Presi-
dent deserves the full support of
this country [Britain] in his
attempt to reduce the dangers
of the Far Eastern situation —
but should this not include our
participation in the defensive
guaranteeing of Formosa, a
commitnity of over nine-million
people? Doubt on our attitude
may add to Peking’s tempta-
tions.”
* * *
“N. Y. Times ”: “This action
in relation to the free Govern-
ment of China has profoundly
significant political aspects.
They outweigh the military
commitment. The United States
is willingly placing itself on the
record as believing in the future
of a free China. Indeed, the
‘flexible clause’ of the treaty
indicates the possibility that
there will be areas not now free
that will later come under free-
Chinese rule.
“At this point it does not
seem likely that the military
situation will be modified by this
agreement. The United States
was already committed to the
defence of the major Nationalist
bastion.
“On the political side, how-
ever, such a treaty means that
the United States is not ready
or willing to sell-out its Chinese
allies to obtain some sort of
spurious ‘easing of tension.’ ”


Insuro with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
(who had been a minor partner
of Mr. Johnson) had established
a ferry across the Swan. Making
now an early-morning crossing,
he and his assistant found
Midgerooroo and his tribe wait-
ing, and ferried them across.
The warriors, a dozen or so of
them, all armed with spears, set
off in a hurry to the southward.
Weavill wondered where they
were going, and why such
unusual hurry.
Among the Bibbulmun people
the vendetta had the power of a
religious belief. Blood wantonly
shed must be avenged by more
blood. The avengers in this case,
however, did not go after the
actual killers of Domchum, the
brothers Chidlow (that was to
come a few years later, at the
hands of the York tribe;
Chidlow’s Well, now a station on
the Trans-Australian railway,
some 30 miles east of Perth,
commemorates the brothers). The
ones selected for the avenging
of Domchum were two other
brothers, John and William
Velvick, against whom Yagan
held a peculiar and personal
grudge.
Records of the early Swan
River tell that these Velvicks
were the cause, indirectly, of
Yagan breaking off his friendly
relations with the whites and
reverting to savagery. Un-
educated laboring men, the
brothers enjoyed a crude joke.
One Sunday morning early in
1832, when they were indulging
in a weekly clean-up and shave
at the door ,of their hut, Yagan
happened along. Like all adult
aborigines, Yagan wore a beard,
one of the marks of his man-
hood. The Velvicks persuaded
him to submit to what they made
a clean shave.
Now the beard to the
Bibbulmun warrior was of great
significance. So when Yagan
arrived back at the main native-
camp on Mount Eliza his father
Midgerooroo found no pleasure
in the sight of him: named him
a smooth-faced woman, and
called all the women of the tribe
to bring their digging-sticks and
drive this intruder woman from
the camp. Which —since these
women, given such encourage-
ment, could fight like Amazons —
was speedily done. Nor was
Yagan permitted to return until
his beard had partly grown again.
Worst of all, this disgrace
became known to the whites.
Yagan had felt himself a figure
of dignity among them;
now he had become a figure
of fun. He was deeply sensitive
to ridicule. And so, discarding
his uniform and his skittle-
playing, he had returned to the
life of the forest.
Among the Bibbulmun a very
efficient system of intelligence
operated: the Velvicks were
known to be working with a
bullock-wagon carting goods
from the landing-place on Bull’s
Creek, a tributary of the
Canning, to Major Nairn’s farm.
An ambush was laid. From
spears cast with the speed and
accuracy of a bullet there was
no escape. In the eyes of the
aborigines, Domchum was
avenged.
Yagan now became again a
fugitive, with a price on his
head, dead or alive. And with
him were posted his father, and
his uncle Munday. The rewards
offered for them, £2O each; for
him, £3O.
Old Midgerooroo did not long
remain at large. Eighteen nights
later he was taken by the police
while camped on what then was
called The Peninsula, a bend of
the Swan just above Perth,
today the Maylands aerodrome.
Brought to trial before the
Executive Council he was con-
demned not for the killing of the
Velvicks but for an earlier
offence, the killing of Amion
Entwhistle, on Butler’s farm on
the lower Swan. This had been
an act of vendetta, and as such
had been for the time over-
looked. Now it was brought,
fully proven, against him. Every-
thing was strictly in accordance
with British law: his death-
warrant signed by the Resident
Magistrate of Perth.
It is said that Captain Irwin,
as Lieut.-Governor, was against
the death-sentence being enforced
—that he favored exile, but
public clamor swayed a majority
of the council against him. How-
ever, he insisted that the old
warrior should be given a
soldier’s death, as against a
public hanging. So, one morning,
Midgerooroo was stood against
the barracks wall, and fell before
a firing-squad.
Quitting the lands of his tribe,
Yagan now sought sanctuary
with Weeip, the leader whose
domain was a few miles up the
river from Perth. Here Yagan
was fed by the women of his
tribe, who, in turn, obtained
much of the provisions from a
friendly settler, Lieut. Henry
Bull, the same who had given
his name to Bull’s Creek.
Lieut. Bull might be regarded
as the leader of the “Wallace”
sympathisers those who
regarded Yagan as an aboriginal
patriot standing up for the rights
of his people. Another who
here enters into the story is
George Fletcher Moore, historian
of the early Swan River. A
native of Northern Ireland,
Moore had arrived with sufficient
influence to receive the appoint-
ment of Advocate-General, an
office which combined that of
the modern Attorney-General
and Crown Prosecutor.
A man of parts, Moore was
lawyer, literary man, farmer,
explorer. He was a member of
the Executive Council Which
had tried and condemned
Midgerooroo. His holding was
part of the area over which
Yagan, outlawed, roamed with
comparative indifference, and it
was to ascertain the fate of his
father that Yagan, one evening,
sought an interview at Moore’s
homestead. Yagan was quite
aware of the office Moore held.
To use Moore’s own words:
2Tth [May, 1833]. Have had a long,
angry, and wholly unexpected con-
ference today with the very spirit of
evil himself, I mean the notorious
Yagan. On seeing several natives
approach the house I went towards
them.... On looking around I then
saw Munday himself (who is pro-
• claimed, with a price on his
head) at last I saw Yagan, stand-
ing a little aloof, scrutinising my
countenance narrowly and my
manner of receiving them seeing
that I knew him perfectly he avowed
himself, and entered into a long
argument and defence of his con-
duct.... and I confess that he had
almost as much of the argument as
I had.
Both parties [Moore by this time
had been reinforced by his three
farm-laborers] seemed to consider
us as respectively arguing the ques-
tion. Yagan listened with respectful
anxiety, and used bold and emphatic
language and graceful gesture, with
abundant action; he delivered him-
self boldly... .leaning with his left
hand on my shoulder, while he ges-
ticulated with his right, he delivered
a sort of recitative, looking earnestly
at my face.
I regret that I could not under-
stand him, but I conjectured....
that the purport was this: “You
came to our country; you have
driven us from our haunts, and dis-
turbed us in our occupations; as we
walk our own country, we are fired
upon by the white men: why should
the white men treat us 50?”....
After a short interval the chief
approached me again, and, fixing his
eyes as if he read my countenance,
said inquiringly, “Midgerooroo
shoot? walk?” (meaning was Midge-
rooroo dead or alive). I felt that
the question was full of personal
hazard to me, and gave no reply.
However, my men assured them that
Midgerooroo and his son had gone
on board a ship.
Yagan still continued to read my
countenance, and when he could
obtain no answer from me, he said
with extraordinary vehemence of
manner, distinctness of utterance
and emphasis of tone: “White man
shoot Midgerooroo, Yagan kill three”
(holding up three fingers). He
scowled a look of daring defiance,
and turned on his heel with an air
of ineffable contempt.
During the latter part of this con-
ference, he held a beautifully tapered
and exquisitely pointed spear,
grasped like a stiletto, about four-
teen inches from the point, while the
shaft lay over his shoulder, with a
seeming carelessness. He evidently
suspected treachery and was on his
guard against it....
Nothing short of an overpowering
force (which I did not possess), or
a cold-blooded, deliberate treachery
(of which I was incapable), would
have enabled me to secure him as he
then stood: it was perhaps my duty
to have attempted his arrest, dead or
alive; however, consider the circum-
stances of my situation —I had gone
among them unarmed, little thinking
that the “Wallace” of the tribe
was there; he did not relinquish his
spear till he was certain of my
pacific intentions
I dispatched a letter instantly to
Mr. Bull, as a magistrate, appraising
him of Yagan’s vicinity. He went
off for the soldiers; and in the mean-
time this proclaimed and dangerous
outlaw.... in sight of military
quarters, hemmed in between three
or four settlements, and almost in
the presence of a large ‘force of
armed men, was suffered to escape
unmolested....
The conference happened on
May 27. After it, alarms and
excursions stirred the settlement.
It remained for two boys to
bring the outlaw to his end.
At Fremantle lived a dissolute
innkeeper named Keats, with a
numerous family. His two eldest
boys, William and John, stood
out as hardy, reckless young
adventurers. Aged 17 and 15,
they both owned double-
barrelled guns, and earned a
living as kangaroo-hunters. To
such youths the reward on
Yagan’s head was tempting:
wealth indeed. They determined
to claim it.
The locality now known as
Bassendean, some six or seven
miles up-river from Perth, was
then wild b'ushland, some of it
the estate of the then Colonial
' Secretary, Peter Brown. Wander-
ing this bush, pretending to be
on the lookout for kangaroo, the
Keats brothers, on July 13, came
upon a party of natives on their
way to the homestead of Lieut.
Bull for a free distribution of
flour. Yagan was with them.
By telling him, quite falsely, that
soldiers were waiting in ambush
at Bull’s, the Keats boys
deterred him from going any
further. The other natives went
on.
Knowing these brothers well,
from having met them while
hunting, Yagan decided to wait
in their company until his people
returned. Presently he was
joined by his brother Eagen.
The two white boys kept
company with the two blacks
almost the whole of the morn-
ing. It speaks volumes for the
trusting nature of Yagan that he
permitted it, but probably he did
not anticipate treachery from
persons so young. Still, he kept
a watchful eye on the guns, push-
ing the muzzles aside with his
spear whenever they, seemingly
by accident, pointed in his
direction.
At length, tiring of the game,
William Keats tried to shoot him
behind his back. The gun missed
fire. Hearing the trigger fall
Yagan became suspicious and
ordered the boys to leave him.
Here was the big chance pass-
ing: it must be now or never.
Pretending to agree, William
Keats turned to go, his gun lying
across the crook of his left arm.
For a moment it was in line with
Yagan’s head: and he pulled
trigger.
Seeing his brother fall, Eagen,
spear uplifted, sprang to avenge
him. But John Keats was ready
for this: Eagen in turn fell.
Unluckily for the boys the
party that had gone on to Bull’s
was now coming back. Hearing
the two shots, Weeip, their
leader, came running. John
Keats tried to stop him, but his
shot missed.
The two lads had now only
one loaded barrel, and that a
misfire, between them. There
was no time to reload: nothing
for it but to run. Dropping his
gun, John ran —for the safety
of the river. Half-way across
he looked back. He saw his
brother already dead.
Hardened as they were to the
news of killing and reprisal, the
people of the Swan River were
shocked at this tragic affair.
John Keats was paid the reward,
then hurried on board a ship just
about to sail for Hobart; safe
from inevitable native reprisal.
His brother was buried on Mr.
Shaw’s farm, Belvoir, just across
the river from where he fell.
No punitive action was taken
against the aborigines for the
killing of William Keats: it was
felt by the Executive Council
and the Lieut.-Governor that
enough blood already had been
shed. The proclamation of
outlawry was lifted from
Munday and he was invited to
an interview with Captain Irwin,
who granted him a pardon.
For years after, a low mound
by the river at Coulston, the
estate of the Colonial Secretary,
marked the grave of Yagan. But
not all of the aboriginal
“Wallace” lay there. Let the
journal of George Fletcher
Moore speak again:—■
16th [July, 1833]. On Saturday I
saw at Mr. Bull’s the head of Yagan,
which one of the men had cut off for
the purpose of preserving. Possibly
it may yet figure in some museum
at Home.
The head of Yagan, labelled
as that of the redoubtable chief
of the Swan River, was exhibited
first in Sydney and later in
London.
Moore also tells: —•
Yagan had a very particular mark
of tattooing extending over his right
shoulder and down his back.... This
peculiar cicatrice was flayed from
the body by the man who is preserv-
ing the head.
This strip, tanned and made
into a belt, was for years a
curio owned by a well-known
doctor of Perth.
New Guinea Dialogue
By JACK LUSBY
« 0 F course,” said the Lady
Anthropologist, sipping
tea on the District Commis-
sioner’s veranda, “it’s not a
homogeneous race.”
“Agreed,” said the Assistant
District Officer, “though
basically negroid.”
“With a pronounced Semitic
strain,” added the Visiting
Journalist, peering at the plumed
and painted savages strutting on
the airstrip.
“Blowed if I know,” said the
Planter. “Forget the color and
you see plenty of faces that
could pass for European. Some
of those maries, for instance.”
“Or those up the top of the
Sepik,” cut in the Recruiter.
“Damned handsome, some of
’em.”
“It’s really wonderful how
quickly they’re bridging the gap
between their Stone Age culture
and ours,” began the Lady
Anthropologist hastily.
“They’re pretty short on cul-
ture in the house-cook,” said
the Commissioner’s Wife feel-
ingly.
“Tell me, Doctor,” effervesced
the Orchid-Hunter. “Do they
use those axes?”
“Chust like ve use our hands,”
replied the European Doctor.
“Slap ze baby, thump ze wife,
strike ze rival —my hospital iss
full of them.”
“Extraordinary,” gasped the
Orchid-Hunter. “D’you mean
they still fight one another?”
“If they think we’re not look-
ing,” said the Commissioner.
“But with your Administra-
tion taking them so generously
under its wing—l mean, what
on earth have they to fight
about?”
“Land, pigs and women.”
“But can’t you —I mean,
dammit”
“Exactly.”
“And these, ah, sing-sings
where they work themselves up
so—do they have some toddy
or tipple to?”
“No, they’re quite unsophis-
ticated in this area.”
“No kick of any kind!”
exclaimed the Orchid-Hunter in
horror. “Good Heavens! ”
“Skull measurements indicate
a definite African affinity,” the
Lady Anthropologist was say-
ing, “but”
“And linguistically?” asked
the Visiting Journalist.
“Less reliable; so many ex-
traneous influences over thous-
ands of years of separa-
tion” —
“But of course you teach
them to natter away in pidgin,”
said the Orchid-Hunter.
“New Guinea pidgin is a
Melanesian language,” said the
Commissioner; “we learn it
from the natives.”
“How extraordinary! ”
“The stone club-heads and
axes are definitely prehistoric,”
said the Lady Anthropologist.
“That serrated specimen, for
instance, is at least four thous-
and years old.”
“D’you really mean /y they’ve
been shivering up here at
Heaven knows what altitude all
that time and haven’t learned to
make clothes?”
“Well, what they do wear
seems to suit them admirably.
“True!” said the Recruiter.
“Tell you what I think about
missionaries and their Mother
Hubbards”
“Lo, the poor Indian,” burbled
the Orchid-Hunter, “whose un-
tutored mind ... I say, what are
those necktie whatsits on their
chests?”
“Oh, they’re just dozens of
short bamboo sticks tied to-
gether ; length indicates the
exact state of the bloke’s ‘bank-
balance’ in kina-shell or equiva-
lent,” explained the Commis-
sioner. “One stick means ten
shells as a rule.”
“I see ; and if the chappie has
to ‘shell out,’ ha, ha, he just cuts
off a few sticks?”
“I daresay.”
“Have they any value, the
shells?”
“They’re worth a pound,
thirty-bob, sometimes two-quid
each up here.”
“And this old fellow coming
along with the turban arrange-
ment and beard and one of
those whatsits how many
shells would he own?”
“About a thousand.”
“A thousand! Extra-
ordinary ! ”
“Artistic ally undeveloped,”
the Lady Anthropologist was
saying. “Not to be compared
with the Sepik wood-
carvers” —
“No,” agreed the Visiting
Journalist. “Their art stops at
crude phallic hieroglyphics and
personal decoration, though, of
course”
“All master, missis b’long
’ini, ’e got big fella talk?” asked
the Police-boy, jerking his chin
at the group on the veranda.
“No got,” answered the
Native Interpreter. “Talk, tha’s
all!”


Missing Friends
Would MARGARET ELLEN (PEGGY)
BIRD, a daughter of William Watson
Bird, who died at Auckland, N.Z., on
11th November, 1954, or any person
knowing her present whereabouts, please
communicate with the District Public
Trustee, Auckland.
HIGGS. —Information is sought regarding
the whereabouts of Roy Erskine Higgs
and the next of kin of Walter Lonsdale
Higgs sons of Walter Higgs deceased
and Alice Ellen Higgs (nee Medwin)
deceased and both formerly of Tasmania
last heard of in New South Wales where
Walter Lonsdale Higgs is believed to
have died. Please communicate with
RITCHIE & PARKER ALFRED GREEN
& CO., Solicitors, P.O. Box 184 C, Laun-
ceston, Tasmania.
Missing Beneficiary
KING, FREDERICK, otherwise known as
PATRICK, last heard of at St. Mary’s
New South Wales, formerly of Echuea,
Victoria, and bom in Ireland, a brother
of Julia King, late of Echuca. The above,
next-of-kin, or anyone knowing of his
whereabouts, are asked to contact the
undersigned in connection with his sister’s
Estate.—STEWART, SONS & DONOHUE,
Solicitors, Box 17, Echuca.
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
(UOO-
r
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ SAFE —SIMPLE —CANNOT SPILL
★ 12 LIGHTER HOURS BURNING ON
ONLY l| PINTS OF KEROSENE
★ NO SMOKE —NO SMELL
★ WILL GIVE A LIFETIME OF SERVICE
★ 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H; BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
MB
Circular Charts for ail types
of Recording Instruments
tor mjr class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
'oTILUVANPaL
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
JACK
Public Notice
I, IRENE ILONA CSALAN, of Hungary,
born at Budapest, resident seven years in
Australia, now residing at 8 Bennett Ave.,
Enfield, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND TOWNSVILLE
MR. JUSTICE T. C. O’HAGAN Matri-
monial Jurisdiction No. 128 of 1954
BETWEEN: GRACE ISOBEL JESSIE
ELIZABETH STACEY Plaintiff and
ROBERT JAMES STACEY Defendant.
TO: ROBERT JAMES STACEY formerly
of Innisfail in. the State of Queensland
and of Ford Street, Footscray, Melbourne
in the State of Victoria but now to be
believed to be of a place unknown in
the State of New South Wales and whose
present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced in the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Townsville in its Matri-
monial Jurisdiction (No. 128 of 1954)
against you by your wife GRACE ISOBEL
JESSIE ELIZABETH STACEY for the
dissolution of her marriage with you on the
grounds of desertion without cause con-
tinuously for three years and upwards
from on or about the twentyseventh day
of August one thousand nine hundred and
fortysix.
If you desire to defend the said action
you must cause an appearance to be
entered in the Registry of the said Court
at Townsville within fortyfour (44) days
after the publication of this Notice and
you must also file- your Defence in this
Action in the said Registry within
twentyone (21) days after the time
hereby limited for your appearance and
in default of your so doing your said
wife may proceed and judgment may
be given in your absence.
A copy of the Writ of Summons and
Petition may be had upon Application to
ROBERTS LEU & NORTH, Solicitors, 6
Denham Street, Townsville, as Town
Agents for J. R. BOYETT & STUBBIN,
Edith Street, Innisfail, Solicitors for your
wife.—H. R. FITZPATRICK, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALADMYR PETRUNIUK late of
11 Brussels Street, Granville in the State
of New South Wales and Rosshire Road
Newport in the State of Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that JAN LESCZYNSKI has filed
an Answer to Petition No. 964 of 1953
praying for Divorce from MARIA
LESCZYNSKI on the grounds of her
adultery with you If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 18th March 1955
and obtain a copy of the Answer free of
charge from DONALD E. GLASSON, Soli-
citor, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney, the
City Agent for MESSRS. W. S. KAY,
DAVIES & CHAMPION, Solicitors, 16
George Street, Parramatta, in the State
of New South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
you get down
to bedrock cost!
"Ik
FREE
Write to —
Wunderlich
Limited, Baptist
Street, Redfern,
for a copy of
the Small Homes
Booklet.
READILY
AVAILABLE
FROM LOCAL
DISTRIBUTORS.
You save money when you
build a "Durabestos" Asbestos
Cement timber frame home—save
by using "Durabestos" for exterior
walls, interior walls and ceilings—
save on foundation costs as well.
"Durabestos" is adaptable to all
design trends, easy to erect and
paint, fire resistant and vermin
proof—ideal for Australian homes.
EtoAoon
14'a »•
LiViNC ft/T
PLAN
No.
244
URABESTOS
ASBESTOS-CEMENT BUILDING SHEETS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To sell the Journal of Marie
Bashkirtseff.—s96s.
To buy Handy Hints for the Farm,
published by The Bulletin. —s 966.
To buy copy of Charles Lever’s
picaresque novel Charles O’Malley. —
5967.
Who knows author of the following
lines:
The floods were down on the wilga swamps,
Three feet over the mud,
And the teamsters stood on the rising
ground
And cursed at the rising flood.
—5968.
Words of verse “An Orangeman’s
Experiences in the Land Beyond.”—
5969.
To buy copy The “Bulletin” Reciter.
— 5970 .
Information Sought
List of winners of the Nobel prize
for literature since its inception ?
1901, R. F. Sully-Prudhomme; ’O2,
T. Mommsen; ’O3, B. Bjornson; ’O4,
F. Mistral and F. Echegaray; ’O5,
H. Sienkiewicz; ’O6, G. Carducci;
’O7, Kipling; ’OB, R. Eucken; ’O9,
Selma Lagerlof; TO, P. Heyse; ’ll,
Maeterlinck; T 2, G. Hauptmann;
T 3, R. Tagore; T 4, no award; T 5,
Romain Rolland; T 6, Verner von
Heidenstan; T 7, K. Gjellerup and H.
Pontopiddan; TB, no award; T 9, C.
Spitteler; ’2O, Knut Hamsun; ’2l,
Anatole France; ’22, J. Benavente;
’23, W. B. Yeats; ’24, W. Reymont;
’25, Bernard Shaw; ’26, Grazia
Deledda; ’27, Henri Bergson; ’2B,
Sigrid Undset; ’29, Thomas Mann;
’3O, Sinclair Lewis; ’3l, Eric Axel
Karlfeldt; ’32, Galsworthy; ’33, Ivan
Bunin; ’34, Luigi Pirandello; ’35,
no award; ’36, Eugene O’Neill; ’37,
R. M. du Gard; ’3B, Pearl Buck;
’39, F. E. Sillanpaa; ’4O to ’43, no
award; ’44, Dr. J. V. Jensen; ’45,
Gabriela Mistral; ’46, Hermann
Hesse; ’47, Andre Gide; ’4B, T. S.
Eliot; ’49, no award; ’5O, Bertrand
Russell; ’5l, Par Lagerkvist; ’52,
Francois Mauriac; ’53, Winston
Churchill; ’54, Ernest Hemingway.
* * * *
When General Eisenhower was
elected U.S. President I recall reading
that he could be numbered as either
this or that President. What number
President is he, and why the doubt?
Grover Cleveland (1837-1908) was
Democrat President (1885-89) and,
with the 1889-93 term of the Republi-
can Benjamin Harrison intervening,
was re-elected President in 1893 for
another four-year term. If he is
counted as the 22nd and 24th Presi-
dent, General Eisenhower is the 34th.
If Cleveland is only counted once,
Eisenhower is the 33rd President.
All the other Presidents who had
two consecutive terms, and Franklin
D. Roosevelt (who had three, and was
re-elected for a fourth, just before his
death), are, of course, counted in only
once.
* * * *
Difference between crocodiles and
alligators ?
There are no alligators in Australia.
True alligators are only to be found
in the southern States of North
America and in China. In the croco-
dile the fourth tooth on each side of
the lower jaw is much enlarged, and
fits into a notch in the upper jaw,
being plainly visible when the mouth
is closed. In alligators a similar tooth
fits into a pit in the upper jaw; the
typical alligator, moreover, has a
more rounded head, and is more
sluggish than the voracious crocodile
with its pointed snout. Crocodiles,
besides being found in Australia, also
inhabit Africa, South Asia and tropical
America.
* * * *
Whence comes the expression
“halcyon days’''?
In Greek mythology Halcyone (or
Alcyone), a daughter of ALolus, lost
her husband, Ceyx, in a shipwreck.
Halcyone was warned in a dream of
her husband’s fate, and when she
found, on the morrow, his body on
the shore, she threw herself into the
sea. Halcyone and Ceyx were changed
into the birds that bear her name,
which are fabled to keep the waters
calm for the 14 days they nest. Hence
the expression “halcyon days” for a
period of peace and tranquillity.
* * * *
Some information on U.S. Senator
Taft, the Republican who was beaten
by General Eisenhower for the last
Presidential nomination ? Has he
since retired from public life?
Senator Robert A. Taft died on
July 31, 1953, from malignant tumors.
Son of William Howard Taft (1857-
1930), who was U.S. President from
1909 to 1913, he was born in Cin-
cinnati in 1889. A lawyer, he gradu-
ated B.A. from Yale (1910) and LL.B.
from Harvard (1913); he practised in
Cincinnati. Elected to the Senate
from Ohio in 1939, he was twice
re-elected. From 1940 he three times
tried and failed to secure Republican
nomination for President; the last
occasion was in 1952, when General
Eisenhower was selected. After fail-
ing for nomination in 1952, Taft
worked actively for the General, and
in the first months of the Eisenhower
Administration proved one of the
President’s most valuable assets in the
Senate. In 1947 he was largely
responsible for the Taft-Hartley Labor
Act.
• * * *
(7) Pronunciation of “laboratory” ?
(2) Pronunciation and meaning of
“labret” ?
(1) The Oxford English Dictionary
gives la/bora/teri (the first “a” as in
“add,” the “o” as the first “o” in
“borrow,” with the main accent after
the first syllable). Webster’s gives the
same as the British pronunciation,
with different accents —either on “lab”
or on “bor” (with a short-“o” sound).
As the American pronunciation
Webster’s gives lab /ora/ to / ri, a short
“a” in “lab” and long “o’s” (as in
“orb”). Accents on the “lab” and
“to.” We can find no justification
for eliding the second syllable;
“lab-ra-teri” would be incorrect.
(2) La-bret, a long “a” as in “lay.”
Meaning, a piece of wood, shell or
stone worn in a perforation of the
lip as by many native races of low
culture.
* * * *
How to make wine?
The following method is given by
Everyman’s Encyclopedia: The fruits
chosen are sound, ripe, clean and dry.
Boiling water shortens the process of
making. One gallon of water is
generally allowed to 71b. of grapes.
Very strongly flavored or acid fruits
are given double the quantity of
water. The grapes are crushed and
covered with cloth, and left from three
to 10 days. Sugar (2|lb. to 3^lb.
per gallon) is added and dissolved
after the liquid is strained. A table-
spoonful of brewers’-yeast will help
to secure quick fermentation; the
wine should be allowed to ferment in a
temperature of 70 deg. to 80 deg. F.,
and fermentation is usually completed
in four to six weeks if the tempera-
ture is maintained. The wine is
thoroughly stirred, left for four days,
then strained through a clean flannel
bag into a cask or into bottles. New
corks should always be used and
placed'in lightly until all sound of
“working” has ceased; then corks
should be driven in tight. The wine
should be left in a cool, dark place for
12 months to mature.
* * * *
(7) Recipe for waterproofing
umbrella, etc., containing alum and
lead? (2) Any alternative method?
(1) First sponge material with warm
water to which has been added a few
drops of liquid ammonia. Then
wipe off moisture and apply follow-
ing mixture: Dissolve 2oz. each
powdered alum and sugar-of-lead in
one gallon of water. Stir well, leave
24 hours, pour off clear liquid and
sponge material while it is damp, and
dry in shade in breeze. (2) An alter-
native method is to use alum and
soap. Dissolve £lb. good laundry
soap in one quart hot water. Dissolve
ilb. common alum also in one quart
hot water. Put the garment into the
first solution, leave for half an hour,
wring and put into the other (alum
bath) for the same time. Wring, rinse
in clean water twice, wring again and
hang to dry in shade, then press. Will
be a little stiff, but quite waterproof.
* * * *
How to remove sweat-stains from
polished table?
Rub marks with warm raw linseed-
oil. Rubbing should be slow and
done in a circular motion. Leave on
for an hour or so, then remove with
more warm linseed-oil, wipe off excess
and polish with fluffless cloth. A few
repetitions if need be and furniture
should be clean and polished.
* * * *
(7) What are the income and expen-
diture relating to the Sydney Harbor
Bridge ? (2) Has the bridge always
made a profit ?
(1) For the year 1951-52, latest
figures given in No. 54 (1955) N.S.W.
Official Year-book, issued by the
N.S.W. Bureau of Statistics and
Economics, are: Income —road-tolls,
£582,764; railway-tolls, £127,952;
tramway- and omnibus-tolls, £27,318;
other, £13,517. Total income,
£751,551. Expenditure—maintenance,
£82,016; collection of road-tolls,
£55,109. Loan charges—interest,
exchange, etc., £244,675; sinking-fund,
£66,477; other, £11,934. Total expen-
diture, £460,211. Surplus, £291,340.
(2) The Bridge Account had a credit
balance of £94,059 at June 30, 1939,
but, because of war-time restrictions
on motor-traffic, there were deficien-
cies in each of the years 1939-40 to
1945-46, net accumulated deficiency at
June 30, 1946, being £545,241. How-
ever, there has been a surplus each
year since 1946-47, permitting the
deficiency to be wiped off and a
balance to be transferred to a Reserve
Account.
Brief Answers
D.W.H.: (1) and (2) Unable to
trace any. It seems most unlikely that
any balloon-flight which was made in
Australia had any important influence
on the advancement of flight
L.H.: Kuttabul, “wonderful”;
Kirrule, “aroused”; Kirawa, “look-
ing for them”; Koompartoo, “a
fresh start” C.WJ.: Thanks for
information on “Smiler” Hales’s Black
Prince Peter: The Romantic Career
of Peter Jackson. Will pass it on
to the inquirer E.H.W.: Thanks
for writing R.G.MacF.: The “New
Statesman and Nation” is “Lett-
ish” J.P.: Write Department of
Public Health, Macquarie-street,
Sydney M.H.C.: Urticaria is a
disease of the skin characterised by
the development of raised red or
white weals similar to those produced
by the sting of a nettle, accompanied
by a burning and itching sensation.
It is caused by a digestive upset. Best
treatment is administration of a
purgative combined with an antacid,
such as magnesia K.J.T.: The
Socinians were adherents of the re-
ligious beliefs of Fausto Paolo
Sozzini (Socinus), a 16th-century
Italian theologian. Socinianism was
vigorously opposed by both Catholics
and Protestants, and, though it
flourished in some countries for a
while, has long since ceased to exist
in organised form J.J.P.: There
are two distinct types of mange in
dbgs, and they require individual
treatments. The more common type
is Sarcoptic mange, and a suitable
remedy is the weekly application of a
solution of benzene hexachloride,
which may be obtained with the
necessary directions at most chemists.
The other is Demodestic mange,
which generally affects the muzzle,
around the eyes, on the elbow and
stifle regions. The only treatment for
this is the regular application of
1 p.c. solution of rotenone....
G.E.H.: It is one of W. S. Gilbert’s
Bab Ballads. .. .D.J.N.: Snapshots
are not used with pars. Appropriate
photos are sometimes published to
illustrate articles such as those
featured on the Man-on-the-Land
page. Special articles on, say, the
Northern Territory or the Centre
could perhaps be suitably so illus-
trated Bardia: Sorry if you
thought we were “cruel.” As for not
“receiving encouragement,” The
Bulletin is, of course, well-known for
the encouragement it gives and always
has given to writers and artists....
Harry H.: The Landlord and Tenant
Bill was passed by the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly on Dec. 8, 1954. It eases
certain provisions relating to the
owners of single homes evicting
tenants in order to obtain repossession.
F.E.W.: Section 51, sub-section
xxxv, of the Federal Constitution
gives power to the Commonwealth to
make laws for “conciliation and arbi-
tration for the prevention and settle-
ment of industrial disputes extending
beyond the limits of any one State.”
There is no section at present dealing
with “compulsory unionism.” The
N.S.W. Institute of Public Affairs,
which is seeking Constitutional revis-
ion, has suggested a new section which
says, inter alia, that “The Parliament
shall not nor shall any State make
hereafter any law (iii) Compelling
any person to join any trade-union or
other association or placing him
under any disability for not so doing.”
....Bert: “May” is, in most of its
usage, an auxiliary verb (present
tense), followed by the infinitive
without “to”; “might” is the past
tense of “may.” Both are therefore
correct usage... .A.C.: You appear
to be buying a pig-in-a-poke. Go
ahead at your own risk M.H.C.:
(1) The Australian note-issue will
continue to expand with the expansion
of the economy. (2) It is covered by
the following assets (figures as at
June 30, 1954): “Gold and balances
held abroad (including money at short
call),” £120,735,869; “Government
securities (including Commonwealth
Treasury Bills),” £231,001,975;
“Other assets,” £47,708.


MTS
LYS
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
.
wWSraWeW&fcS***#'
.
$ jb£&: ;
H
#p||
®PP*
K H SR# KSHB
■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
■S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
SPECIFY 11 LYSAGHT
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
KEYLINE PLAN
I APPRECIATE Mr. Yeomans’s
invitation to visit his property
Nevallan (JB. 15/12/’54), and
hope to take advantage of it
when I come to Sydney this
month. But I don’t think the
visit will materially alter my
opinion of the keyline-plan as a
principle. In any case, isn’t it
unwise to argue from the par-
ticular to the universal?
About Nevallan: I’ve read
the book, studied the photo-
graphs, etc. I’ve also discussed
the place in some detail with
men who have seen it, a grazier,
a land-agent and the o.i.c. of a
major soil-conservation station
in south-western New South
Wales. They have all assured
me that it is a remarkably well
developed farm ; that its fertility
is obvious and impressive. They
are sure the place will come to
no harm under the present
system of management, and they
are unanimously of the opinion
that the same system could be
successfully undertaken by
anyone who didn’t have to make
a living off the land.
As for the cultivation, I have
no strong objections to the
method, in specific cases. Even
if it gets off the contour in
places, it is a great deal better
than the round-the-paddock (and
sometimes up-and-down-hill)
practices of the average farmer.
But when the author of Keyline
Plan becomes careless about the
gradient at which he runs water,
I really must protest. s
I must insist* that practices
which are safe at Nevallan could
be highly dangerous on land that
has been subjected to severe
exploitation. Take the “keyline”
drains which lead the water to
the big Nevallan dams. Mr.
Yeomans is not greatly con-
cerned about their exact
gradient; it is sufficient for him
that they are parallel to his basic
keyline.
Because these drains are well
grassed they do not erode
even if they have a slope of,
say, up to 1 in 50. Yet in con-
structing new water-diversion
banks on poorly grassed land
any gradient of more than 1 in
200 will very soon result in
disastrous erosion.
It is Mr. Yeomans’s attempt to
apply universally the lessons he
has learned on a single and quite
untypical farm to which I object.
Hence the recommendation of
the eminent agriculturist to
“Come and see” isn’t likely to
alter my opinion. I can’t agree
that all the hard-won experi-
ence of the Soil Conservation
officers should be scrapped in
favor of the short-cuts and
approximations of the keyline-
plan, as it now stands.
A pity Mr. Yeomans had to
go as far afield as Natal, South
Africa, to find a conservationist
to support his views ; significant,
too, that this authority should be
so careful to stipulate that the
keyline-plan “embodied a purely
technical truth,” which would
apply to a “certain topographical
formation.” At the same time
it says a good deal for Mr.
Yeomans’s fairness that he
quotes this qualification.
The New Guinea patrol-officer
who “saw key lines in every
valley” was undoubtedly report-
ing his observations in good
faith; but there is a very great
difference between recognising
that the valley-floors meet the
hillsides at a definite level and
proving that all manner of water-
diversion works could be safely
carried out on a line parallel
with that so-called keyline.
To illustrate my point that
lines parallel to a given level line
soon depart from the level (which
Mr. Yeomans has more-or-less
ignored) let anyone who has
travelled by rail on, say, the
N.S.W. South Coast line imagine
the impossible ascents and
hazardous descents a train would
have to make on a parallel set
of rails laid only 100yds. farther
inland than the present set.
Lest Mr. Yeomans should
protest that a coastline is not a
keyline, let me reply immediately
that the hillsides adjacent to a
valley floor are just as likely to
be irregular as those adjacent to
the coast.
In any case, eminent
authorities, if unnamed, tend to
lose their authority. Let me
give the opinion of a practising
soil-conservationist of the N.S.W.
department, Mr, K. Woodham,
who has designed many erosion-
control schemes, and whose
reputation has had to stand or
fall by the success or failure of
their functioning. My italics:
Keyline is a guide to farm-planning
and theoretically the plan has definite
advantages. In practice, however, it is
realised that in farm-land subject to
bad erosion it is imperative to have
installed a well-designed absorption
and/or diversion type of works with
correct levels taken, which will hold
or safely divert damaging run-off.
The extent of the work will depend,
of course, on such factors as the slope
and type of land, the intensity and
duration of storms, and many other
factors.
Any other schemes which are imple-
mented in the control of serious
erosion in which levels of controi-
measures are not definitely known,
would have to be viewed with grave
caution. Moreover, even the most
carefully designed soil-conservation
structures need to be followed by
wise land-use if the full benefits are
to be gained.
This supports my opinion that
Mr. Yeomans’s vision is too
much dominated by the parti-
cular topography of his coastal
region, which is, after all, only
a minor part of the continent.
Very different from the rolling
tablelands, the undulating slopes
with their abrupt outcrops of
hills, or the more-or-less level
plains.
If he would give his full con-
sideration to the large areas of
wheatland which have been so
meticulously levelled by wide,
multiple-tyned farm-implements
and deprived of essential humus
by the current farming practices,
or the vast stretches of grazing
lands, often eaten bare of grass,
parched with heat and trampled
into dust, he would get a more
reliable conception of the
quantity and the velocity of
water run-off, and the vulner-
ability of much of our soil to
erosion.
In these situations the storm-
water charges over the surface as
it would off a corrugated-iron
roof, and even the slightest
deviation from the true contour
in control-structures will lead to
a new erosion across the slopes
almost as bad as that down the
slope which the measures are
designed to control.
I know that Mr. Yeomans
has travelled considerably and
seen a lot of country, and I am
definitely puzzled that a man of
his obvious capacity should put
such faith in his keyline-plan.
But, after all, when a man gets
bitten by this sort of grand idea
he tends to concentrate on it to
the exclusion of contrary
evidence. For the man who has
“I'd like to be doing the trowelling, but Phil says
it's terribly skilled.”
to make a living out of his land,
economic factors provide a
useful corrective.
Now, after these somewhat
disagreeable comments, I would
like to assure “Man on the
Land” readers that I have a great
admiration for Mr. Yeomans's
land-salvation enthusiasm. We
are both preachers in the same
crusade, only I happen to believe
in the orthodox creed, while he
has invented a slightly off-
contour doctrine. Moreover, to
prove that I am no anti-
Yeomans bigot, I would like him
to know that I have'bought one
of his Graham chisel-ploughs,
and I find it a very versatile and
valuable farm-implement.
E. O. Schlunke.
Fogging
Although it is 10 years since
modern synthetic insecticides
were released for general use, the
arsenical dips, with their many
hazards and objections, are still
generally used.
Leaving aside the hazards, it
is estimated that cattle lose as
much as 41b. to 51b. weight of
beef per head during the process
of passing through the three or
four dipping treatments
demanded by the regulations of
the Tick Control Board.
There is not the same com-
pulsory dipping of sheep
suffering from lice. When
animals are found to have lice,
the flocks are placed in quaran-
tine. Lambs, and ewes in lamb,
cannot be dipped.
The failure of the synthetic
insecticide dip to meet the
standard of efficiency required
by the Department of Agricul-
ture is not a reflection on the
chemicals themselves. They are
still far superior to the
arsenicals, in the considerable
reduction of hazard to both
animal and man, the fact that
they exert a contact as well as a
stomach action and in their
residual effect.
The trouble is simply that the
chemicals have been formulated
for their employment in dips,
whereas, if more attention were
given to suitable equipment for
their more-efficient application,
indications are that they would
take a major part in the control
of insect pests of stock.
Of all the finance allocated
for research to the Government
departments concerned, little or
none is available for the
research and development of
equipment. An outstanding
instance of this is the use of the
T.I.F.A. fogging - machine,
which showed such early
promise in the treatment of live-
stock against ectoparasites, and
in many other fields of noxious-
pest control.
The T.I.F.A. could not be
examined by the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, except by
favor of outside owners. Even
today, the machine used by the
department for its experiments
is on loan from a commercial
concern.
I have a personal interest in
this, having evolved equipment,
as the result of some eight years’
work on insect-pest control,,
which is of value to the
Commonwealth. So far I haven’t
had much success in getting
Government departments
interested in my idea.
Results have proved that by
using established insecticides
with machines made for the
purpose, it is possible to:
1. —Blanket an area to control
the bush-fly as effectively and
cheaply as has been done with
the malaria-mosquito in other
parts of the world. I did this at
Duntroon during the Queen's
visit.
2. —Employ an oil-based solu-
tion (which, by the way, is in
use in the T.I.F.A. fogging-
machine) for the control of
cattle-tick, sheep-lice, etc.
3. —Eliminate, by use of a
hand-size machine, the irre-
sponsible and wasteful system of
the use of the swab for applying
blowfly-dressing to sheep.
In the development of the
above equipment, full attention
has been given to the tremendous
bill for wasted material and the
hazard to which animals are
exposed by the uncontrolled
application of poisons.
As an instance of the neglect
of this vital matter of precision-
dosage, no attention has been
paid to the amount of the active
ingredient retained on the body
of the animal under treatment,
either in dips or sprays. As far
as my inquiries have gone, these
figures are not available in
Australia.
It ought to be possible, as a
preliminary, for representatives
of the Graziers’ Association and
the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture —a veterinary officer,
say, from the department, and a
member of the association —to
investigate these claims.
C. Martin.
Sod-seeding
The idea of using a heavy
implement to sow pasture-seeds
directly into native pastures has
been enthusiastically advocated
by the firms selling the needed
machinery but treated with
some reserve by N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture experts,
who possibly fear that graziers
will be tempted to abandon
proved methods of ploughing,
working-down and sowing on
a seed-bed.
But, to do justice to the manu-
facturers, they have never
claimed that the method is a
substitute for orthodox prepara-
tion of the seed-bed.
Where large areas of arable
lands of good quality exist, no
doubt ploughing and thorough
preparation of the soil is to be
preferred, as pastures can be
established on the New Eng-
land by these methods even in
the worst seasons. However,
once steeper country, which is
usually broken by rock out-
crops, is tackled, these methods
become tedious, expensive and
ruinous to machinery.
A large proportion of the best


Best
Mineral
Supplement
*
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
QS
CM
BOWS
w-***
t d ! u-€a£6L
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. tee 3SU.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Bo> 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
80, 712 F. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. 80, 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80, 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
fire, marine and accident insurances
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States .
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
drg
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.8.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
m
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS'
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIO.:
S.A.:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
W.A.
TAS.
grazing country on the New
England consists of flat-topped
basalt hills which are stony
but contain areas of deep-
chocolate and red-loam soil
between outcrops. This country
could be ploughed only in a
very rough fashion and would
be subject to severe erosion. The
finer grasses still prevail on this
country because of its high
fertility, and if clovers were
sown-in with a sod-seeder it
would become good winter
country in one year.
Lighter soils broken by out-
crops are a less attractive
proposition: clovers are diffi-
cult to establish even in the best
circumstances: and if ploughed
and sown the carrying-capacity
is light for many years, as the
build-up of soil-fertility is slow.
If sub.-clover is sod-seeded
into this country the summer
grazing from the native grasses
is retained. After a year or two
it will probably maintain
wethers all the year round, and
eventually it will be possible to
sow-in cocksfoot.
For the man who has sown
his arable land down, and is
now in a position to treat big
sections of his higher country,
the sod-seeder appears to be a
good investment. The machines
are expensive, but their cost is
trifling if they will enable hun-
dreds of acres of additional land
to be improved. A number of
shrewd men are selling their
original machines and buying
bigger ones, while men with
smaller areas are eagerly buying
any secondhand ones that
become available.
w. w. s.
Maize Yields
“Cocky F.”: Records of 170
bushels or more per acre were
produced in the R.A.S. maize-
championship competition on
the N.S.W. South Coast and in
official yield-tests of hybrids in
the same region last season.
These are the highest official
yields of maize known in Aus-
tralia. The record in America
is believed to be 233 bushels.
The A.B.C. recently had a
guest-speaker in its Rural Hour
telling how Australian growers
may get 200 bushels or more
per acre “this summer.”
Suggested use of about three-
quarters of a ton of fertiliser at
a cost of about £3O per acre,
however, makes the method a
bit impractical.
After giving some sound
advice that fertiliser recommen-
dations may vary in different
areas, and that only accurate
tests can prove the most desir-
able application, the speaker
went on to state that he has had
excellent results from an appli-
cation of half a ton of complete
fertiliser per acre along each
third plough-furrow (apparently
in the early preparation of the
soil) with a further 3cwt. of
complete fertiliser at planting-
time, and possibly additional
sulphate-of-ammonia as a side-
dressing during the growth of
the crop.
Deep-placement of fertiliser
has an advantage in drier
regions or seasons in which the
main bulk of the maize-roots
tend to go down to deeper soil-
levels in search of receding
moisture, but 200-bushel yields
are hardly likely to be obtained
under such conditions.
In high-rainfall regions or
seasons, or under irrigation,
where the chances of obtaining
such yields on rich soils are
much better, many farmers will
pour much of their money
“down the drain” if they use
heavy quantities of soluble
nitrogen-fertiliser so much in
advance of sowing, for much of
this nitrogen could be lost by
leaching before the maize crop
is started, or at least before it
is mainly required—in the
middle and later stages of
growth, when the demand for
this element is very heavy.
Under good rainfall or irri-
gated conditions, moreover,
there is no need to incur the
additional “funeral” expense of
burying wholly soluble nitrogen,
or even potash. Surface-appli-
cation of these fertilisers does
very well, and it has to be done
that way during the growth of
the crop to cause the least
injury in side-dressing.
The placement of phosphates
near the seed is essential to give
the crop a good start and to
help it keep ahead of weeds, but
below the seed-level is much
better than above it or scattered
around it, as much maize-sowing
machinery in Australia at
present" does.
Advice to growers to watch
the lower leaves for evidence of
nitrogen-deficiency, to deter-
mine whether side-dressings with
a nitrogen-fertiliser is required,
is misleading. When a crop
reaches that stage you can be
sure that several irrecoverable
bushels have already been taken
from it.
F*" 1 ■ 1 1 m
Topdressing and
Fertility
“Billjim”: Tests by the
C.5.1.R.0. in the Crookwell dis-
trict of N.S.W. have demon-
strated that major increases in
soil-fertility follow topdressing.
Each cwt. of superphosphate
applied to improved-pastures
resulted in an accumulation of
nitrogen in the soil equivalent to
3|cwt. of ammonium-sulphate.
This applied to paddocks
which had received as much as
13cwt. of super, over a 26-year
period, as well as those which
were improved more recently.
As a final stage in the investi-
gation a small oaten-hay yield-
trial was established on two dif-
ferent sites. First was a typical
unimproved native pasture;
second an area that had been
sown to improved-pasture for 20
years, and had received a total of
7cwt. of super, in that time.
Without any fertiliser at all the
yield of hay in the improved area
was 33.8 cwt. per acre and on
the unimproved pasture B.6cwt.
per acre. The application of
of sulphate-of-ammonia
raised these figures to 56.6 cwt.
and 18.8 cwt. respectively.
The investigation proved that
under the influence of super, and
sub-clover granite soils of low
fertility in this district have been
raised to a point where many of
them may now be classed as
moderately fertile. Percentages
of total nitrogen, phosphorus
and sulphur have more than
doubled, and under the system of
husbandry practised the built-up
fertility is continuous.
The Crookwell district was
one of the first areas where the
Department of Agriculture in
N.S.W. demonstrated the value
of superphosphate and clover,
and these latest studies by the
C.5.1.R.0. were made possible
by this pioneering work, which
began over 25, years ago.
The trials open up new possi-
bilities for the use of land in this
and other areas of southern Aus-
tralia where virgin soil on
clearing is of such low fertility
as to offer prospects for grazing
only at very low rates.
Grazing
“Skyline”: Experiments by
the U.S. Soil Conservation Ser-
vice showed that grass kept right
on growing after 40 per cent, of
the top-growth was cut off.
When 50 per cent, was cut
off a slight stoppage of the
roots was noticed; but when
90 per cent, of the tops went all
growth stopped for 17 days, and
half the roots were inactive a
month later.
Repeated removal of half the
top-growth (such as in rotational
grazing) held back growth 25 to
40 days. Be particularly careful
to avoid close grazing in dry
times and late autumn.
Grass Silage
“Con.”: With increased
development of pastures has
come recognition of the fact that
the total quantity of feed
obtained from a given acreage
in actual grazing is not as great
as that which could still be pro-
duced from heavy-yielding crops.
Pastures have their flush
periods, and additional stock
cannot generally be obtained to
graze the pastures to their
capacity at these times; on the
other hand, stocking to such
capacity throughout the year
would find a severe shortage
during other periods.
Good grassland - farming
therefore demands that surplus
pasture produced in spring and
at other flush periods should be
conserved in some form for later
use. So it is pleasing to learn of
an increasing conservation of
pasture as meadow-hay in
Australia.
Australian landholders are,
however, still fighting shy of
conserving some surplus pasture
as silage, as is being more exten-
sively done with increasing
pasture-production in other
countries.
With much better mechanical
facilities now available for tak-
ing a good deal of the manual
labor out of silage-making, it
should be realised that an acre of
pasture conserved as silage will
produce more milk or meat than
when conserved in any other
form.
Early cutting of surplus
pasture for silage makes suc-
culent high-protein feed and gets
weeds before they seed, while
late cutting for hay gives fodder
of much lower nutritive-value
and allows many weeds to seed.
An ensiled surplus of lush
pasture is valuable in late
summer, 'early autumn, winter
or early spring, when grass is
either short, or dry and low in
feed-value.
In cool climates, the curing of
hay to a 25 per cent, moisture-
content for safe storage requires
15 to 20 hours’ sunshine, with
risk of loss from bad weather,
while only one to three hours of
sunshine are needed for grass
with 65 per cent, moisture for
ensiling.
Colored Fleeces
“Indigo”: Heavy rains and
mugginess in southern Australia
during October and November,
1954, produced nearly all colors
of the rainbow in some fleeces.
Some were banded in different
colors; others were bright
green.
Cause: bacteria which nor-
mally live harmlessly in the
fleece, but break into techni-
color under suitable conditions
for their growth.
This condition often increases
the wool’s attractiveness for
blowflies. Open-fleeced sheep
seem more liable to the condi-
tion than others.
Young Farmers
“G y p s u m”: Woomelang
(Vic.) senior Young Farmers
had outstanding success in open
company in 1954. Back in
August their chief adviser, Allen
Barbary, won the pasture con-
test for Mallee wheatgrowers,
and now president Ken McClel-
land is open champion wheat-
grower of the Mallee.
Ken’s crop of Insignia yielded
about 13 bags an acre —a clear
winner over old-timers Bill
Mclnerney, of Sea Lake, and
lim Cooper, of Nullawil, and
young Hofmaier, whose father
has won many contests around
Hopetoun.
All finalists grew Insignia.
Geese
“C.A.A.”: According to
M- D. Hall, Victorian poultry
expert, geese would become more
popular table-birds if marketed
in better condition. Remedy, he
says, lies in a little forced-feeding
before marketing.
Supplementing what grass they
get on free-range, geese need at
least one feed of mash and one
of grain each day; quicker
results from mash at both feeds.
Potatoes may be included in the
ration, the following mixture
being a good evening meal:
potatoes 401 b., ground-wheat
401 b., bran 151 b., meatmeal
51b.
Remove any stale food in the
troughs before adding the fresh.
Milk is excellent and can be
included in the mash.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
There seems little doubt that the forthcoming season
will be a combination 'of both the Main and Single Croham-
hurst cycles, in that order, and these would repeat deficient
years in the eastern States, but agricultural South Australia
may experience a fairly good year, as should the south-
west of West Australia.
The influence of the Uranian cycle definitely appears
to be waning, as instanced by the negative result of the
cyclical test of late, and it is extremely doubtful if it
will modify the year to any degree.
Moderate rain may fall 'on the coast, north-west slopes
and plains, and portion of the tablelands, but the balance of
N.S.W. should be generally dry.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Amending the Constitution
It is arguable whether “an amendment
to the Constitution by the Imperial Parlia-
ment in any circumstances is no longer
practical politics” (B. 15/12//54).
With the adoption of the Statute of
Westminster it certainly appears that the
Imperial Parliament abandoned the
right to alter the Australian Constitution
without the consent of the Common-
wealth Parliament. Section 4 of the
Statute does, however, provide that legis-
lation of the United Kingdom can apply
to a Dominion if that Dominion expressly
requests it. Depending on the character
of the legislation, a virtual alteration to
the Australian Constitution could
possibly be effected by a Federal Parlia-
ment requesting United Kingdom legisla-
tion to apply to Australia.
When the draft of the Statute was
being considered by the Commonwealth
Parliament in 1931, Sir John Latham
(the then Leader of the Opposition)
warned of some of its inherent dangers.
He declared:
I am afraid that if the Statute of West-
minster, which purports to define and settle
inter-Governmental practice, is passed in its
present form, the practice of the British
Government will be to accept, without
examination, any request from the Govern-
ment of a Dominion and to legislate
accordingly... .1 say with hesitation, but
with a sense of responsibility, that in the
unsettled economic and financial condition
of the world at the present time, and in
view of what may happen in the next few
years, recourse to the supreme legislature
of the British Empire may be a valuable
privilege, especially having regard to the
legal complications of the Australian
Federal system.
In the same speech Sir John suggested
that “nothing in the Statute of Westmin-
ster shall be deemed to authorise the
Parliament or the Government of the
Commonwealth to request or consent to
the enactment of any Act of the Parlia-
ment of the United Kingdom on any
matter which is within the authority of
the States of Australia.” His suggestion
did not meet with approval.
Dr. Evatt, in his work The King and
His Dominion Governors, also saw
elements of danger in the Statute of
Westminster. He wrote:
It is one of the paradoxes of the Consti-
tutional position evidenced by the Statute
of Westminster that, without the slightest
reference of the issue to the people of a
Dominion, the status of any of the
Dominions may be formally surrendered by
its Parliament (for the time being) request-
ing. the necessary Constitutional legislation
from the Parliament of the United King-
dom. That this is not a mere hypothesis
is shown by the diminution of Constitu-
tional status accepted by the Parliament of
Newfoundland without any express consul-
tation of the people of that Dominion.
Later on in the same work Dr. Evatt
observed:
It will therefore have to be considered
by the Dominion peoples whether special
“ Pieces-of-eight! Wouldn't be worth pieces-of-sixteen these days!"
safeguards are not required to prevent a
complacent Parliament from surrendering
Constitutional powers by the method per-
mitted by Section 4 of the Statute of
Westminster, and without the specific con-
sent or authority of the Dominion people
concerned.
But then Dr. Evatt developed an affec-
tion for politics, and for Socialist politics
in particular, and his ideas about “special
safeguards” atrophied. As Attorney-
General in the Curtin Government in
1942 he piloted the bill ratifying the
Statute of Westminster through the Com-
monwealth Parliament with indecent
haste, flatly refusing to consider any
modification to the legislation.
Apparently Dr. Evatt was abundantly
aware of the possibility that the Statute
of Westminster could provide a means of
increasing the legislative power of the
Commonwealth. In his second-reading
speech on the Statute of Westminster
Adoption Bill on October 2, 1942, Dr.
Evatt said:
Yesterday I received from the Premier of
Victoria a letter in which he again suggested
that there should be inserted, not in the
Section [i.e., Section 4], but in the preamble,
a provision to the effect that it would not
be in accordance with practice that the
Commonwealth should make such a request,
unless the matter were within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. Of
course, I do not think that the House
should adopt such a formula. Our right
to request should not be limited to matters
within our exclusive jurisdiction, but to
matters within our jurisdiction.
Before the advent of the Statute of
Westminster the Imperial Parliament
held the right in law to alter the Aus-
tralian Constitution, but Constitutional
convention would have restrained it from
so doing. Now it appears that, notwith-
standing conventions or customs, a mere
request from an Australian Parliament
for United Kingdom legislation to apply
to Australia could have the effect of
altering the Constitution,
Nothing is very certain about the
Statute of Westminster. Indeed the only
certainty about it is its uncertainty. Its
full implications and possibilities remain
perilously unexplored. It is,. as Lord
Jowitt described it, “a Statute of stupend-
ous Constitutional importance.” Above
all, there remains a clear need for deter-
mining whether a Socialist Government
of the Ward variety in Australia could
connive with a Socialist Government of
the Aneurin Bevan variety in the United
Kingdom to use the Statute of Westmin-
ster to smash the Australian Federalist
system and erect a Socialist State in its
stead.—D. J. K. (Q.).
TV and Reading
Many critics have bewailed the possible
decrease in reading as a national habit
under TV. I suspect that the majority
of these must be newspaper-proprietors,
owners of poster-hoardings or opticians.
The aim of reading is not merely
to develop a skill, but to supply facts,
ideas or entertainment. And reading is
not the only avenue for that.
Much can be gained from talk. I
wonder how much reading was done by
Plato and his mates. It seems pretty clear
from the form his works took when
reduced to paper (for the sake of pos-
terity) that talk was more important in
his school than ink or paper. Yet their
ideas are a basic part of civilisation.
There is nothing like the cut-and-
thrust of good verbal discussion to
stimulate thought. A man’s out on his
own then, and must think for himself
without benefit of reference-books.
Widespread reading habits can be
blamed for the shallowness of modern
table-talk. Most people prefer to read
even the labels on the pickle-jars and
jam-tins than to join in serious dis-
cussion.
Worse than that, the sense of hearing
as a line of communication has lost half
"If there's nothing comin' across, madam , I'll play the wheezy thing."
of its Usefulness through atrophy. Ask
a chap just finished listening to the news
on the radio for details, and see how
much he can tell you.
It is also astonishing to note the extent
to which the written word and phrase
have become divorced from the spoken.
A passage from Shaw or Shakspeare takes
on an entirely different meaning when
read by one who has made a study of
the art of speech. As one of an audience
with whom John Casson tried the experi-
ment during a lecture last summer I can
testify that the difference is considerable.
We take it for granted that reading
should be silent; St. Augustine, on the
other hand, was amazed and a little
alarmed to find Ambrose running his eye
over the page “though voice and tongue,
were still.” Masefield and others hold
that poetry, to be properly appreciated,
should be read aloud. Nor is there any
doubt that a good story gains in dramatic
quality from being told rather than read.
For 30 years now radio has attempted,
without much success, to restore to man
this partly lost channel for ideas. Now,
with the powerful aid of TV, it may
finally wean him from the misty chimera
of the half-world of print and paper.—
L. R. M. (W.A.).
Critics
A well-known Australian author has
been refused permission to go to Arn-
hem Land to make drawings of aboriginal
art because he is regarded as a critical
of the Administration. He is just the
man they should allow to go—that is, if
they want to know what is happening
up there.
The Empress Dowager of China was
wiser than Canberra in this connection.
When provincial Governors petitioned
her to have the first native newspapers
suppressed because they criticised the
Administration she said, in effect, “You
be blowed. They are my only source of
information about you.”—X. S. (Vic.).
St. Kilda Baths
Sydney’s Domain Baths, which seem
to have been granted a reprieve, are a
pleasant resort, but, at best, have never
been more than a pale reflection of the
great sea-enclosure at St. Kilda, Mel-
bourne, which dates back to the 1860’s,
and which has been allowed by the local
council to fall into an ugly ruin.
Its great size (560 ft. by 195 ft.) and its
orientation made it ideal for the confirmed
sunbather —deep saltwater to dive into,
deck-space to lie on, pegs to hang your
clothes on, but few other amenities. Yet
it had an atmosphere of complete relaxa-
tion and democratic companionship
which cut across all ages and classes of
the male population. It had become an
institution which was probably unique.
Nudity was taken for granted, appar-
ently from the earliest days of the baths,
though in more recent years this was
not strictly in conformity with the local
council’s regulations.
Among regular patrons of the baths
were laborers and lawyers, bookmakers
and students, tramwaymen and pro-
fessors, priests and doctors, business-
executives, tradesmen and messenger-
boys. To my own knowledge it was
patronised by a Chief Justice and a
Governor-General—the latter tumbling
into the water with youngsters who
guyed him by holding pennies in their
eyes. An earlier patron, I am told, was
Archbishop Carr.
The baths are remembered and dis-
cussed with affection in many parts of the
world. I have encountered “old boys” in
a London tube, on a Swedish freighter
and in the corridors of the Vatican.
The pity is that, whatever we indi-
viduals may think or do, public authority
in Australia takes no account of these
things. Belatedly, we are beginning to
attach some value to the history and
associations of our homes, churches and
public buildings. But, from the attitude
of the St. Kilda Council, it seems we are
not yet sufficiently adult to understand
the value of an indigenous tradition like
St. Kilda Baths. — Rigel (A.C.T.).
Pro- or Anti-?
Agreed that the Communists, even in
countries such as this, are remarkably
successful in protecting their friends and
persecuting their enemies (B. 8/12/’54),
but, even so, anti-Communism isn’t the
seal of virtue.
To be anti-anything is, at best, a
negative and barren attitude. If we
believe in God, in democracy, in the
rule of law, in the inalienable rights of
every man and woman, in even-handed
justice and an inflexible moral code
ruling both public and private life ; if
we really and passionately believe in
these things, so that we will strive and,
if need be, die for them, it goes without
saying that we are implacably opposed to
Communism, for it is the antithesis of
them all, and of everything else we value
in life.
But one can be violently anti-
communist and still not be all, or indeed
any, of these things. Hitler and Musso-
lini' proved that to the hilt, and plenty
of others since have rammed home the
lesson Chiang Kai-shek, Syngman
Rhee, Senator McCarthy, to name a
few.
Communism is a serious and immedi-
ate threat to everyone, but it is not our
only problem, nor our chief one. If
Communism and all its adherents could
be swept into limbo tomorrow we would
still have widespread starvation, disease,
ignorance and despair. There would
still be industrial strife, political bicker-
ing and, from time to time, war, with
the atom-bomb in the background. There
would still be crime, corruption, oppres-
sion and other evils innumerable.
At the root of all our troubles is lack
of faith, the faith that raised our fore-
bears from savagery to civilisation, and
it is the decay of this faith that has
turned so many to Communism, with its
false creed of materialism and its absurd
dogma.-— Magnoon (Q.).


Australia Overseas
I doubt if appointing a woman to Aus-
tralia House in London (B. 1/12/’54)
would do much to enlighten people about
living conditions out here. It is, how-
ever, high time something was done
about overseas ignorance of Australia
and things Australian.
Hitch - hiking around England, my
cobber and I met a fair cross-section of
the community, and our Australian ego
was continually being deflated as we
found how little most people knew of
our homeland. Everyone knew we grew
wool, blackfellows and kangaroos ; some
knew that we had a city with a beautiful
harbor; and those who had served with
Australians during the war had a touch-
ing respect and admiration for them ; but
there it all ended.
It is not the fault of the people over-
seas—everywhere we went, as soon as
they discovered where we came from,
we were bombarded with questions, most
Of them intelligent and the questioners
eager for information.
Australia just doesn’t publicise itself
abroad. Any bookstall will have a selec-
tion of Continental, Canadian and
American magazines on view. Delv-
ing will sometimes bring out some-
thing from South Africa or N.Z., but
rarely anything Australian. Travel-
agencies display posters enticing tourists
to go everywhere but to Australia, and
the occasional Aussie poster is so bad
that it wouldn’t make anyone want to
come, anyhow.— Dicky (N.S.W.).
Literary Magazines
H. A. Lindsay’s article (B. 8/12/’54)
on literary magazines recalls some which
had all too brief a life. “Heart of the
Rose” lasted four issues in 1907, but its
contributors in that time included Bern-
ard O’Dowd, Christopher Brennan, Lionel
Lindsay, A. T. Strong, Louis Esson and
Frank Williamson.
After that came two small poetry
magazines, “Birth” and “The Spinner.”
The former ran from 1920 to November,
1922, under several editors ; “The Spin-
ner” for part of 1924-25. “Vision”
(1923-24) has been described as “a maga-
zine that carried forward the Norman
Lindsay touch and attempted a frontal-
attack on Australian provincialism for
four issues.” Kenneth Siessor and
Robert D. Fitz Gerald were two of its
contributors.
Percival Serle, the bibliographer and
one-time bookseller, began a bi-monthly
magazine of verse in 1929, “because most
Australian journals are curtailing the
space allotted to contributors in verse.”
Besides the familiar names, work by Paul
Hasluck and Ethel Davies and others of
the younger generation of writers began
to appear in its pages. It expired in the
middle of 1933 —“financial malnutrition.”
In 1931 “Stream” appeared. It sought
out “only what is vital and genuine in
contemporary art, literature, and
thought.” It was an attempt to refresh
Australian intellectual life and bring it
closer to European literature and thought.
With the outbreak of World War II
once again Australians were stimulated
to express views; many new magazines
sprang up and grew vigorously. Two
conceptions of literature found expression
in- “Angry Penguins” and “Australian
New Writing.” The ’forties saw the
rise of “Meanjin,” “Southerly,” “Poetry,”
“Design” and “A Comment,” and a
junior-group produced “Barjai” for a
year in Queensland. But casualties were
high.
“Meanjin” was born in December,
1940. Behind the first issues loomed the
questions: Can we survive? What must
be the part of literature in the struggle
for survival? In the first number
the editor pointed out “that it would
be a grave error to suppose the nation can
drop its mental life.... .for three or five
or more years.... and then pick every-
thing up again as though nothing had
happened.” These were frightening
years, and the protest of this group of
writers was directed against standardisa-
tion and neglect of the person. That was
the background. The magazine’s develop-
ment from a bi-monthly handsel of
Queensland verse into an outstanding
literary review, and its present healthy
condition, are well-known. (“Meanjin”
came to Melbourne “as a guest of the
University” in 1942.)
The history of Australia’s literary
magazines is a sad one, no less so because
it is parallel to what has happened in
other countries. English poet Stephen
Spender, reporting the American literary
scene for “Horizon” (long since defunct),
found “a lack of any large, consciously
cultivated reading public, interested....
in seeking-out and supporting the best in
contemporary writing.”—P. M. (Vic.).
Rail Transport
In modernising their rolling-stock the
N. S. Wales Government Railways are
withdrawing from service their “D”-
“It’s sort of high finance—the plain is credit and the spot is debit.”
trucks (10-ton capacity) and it is under-
stood that “S”-trucks (15-ton) are also
to be scrapped progressively. The
emphasis now will be on large trucks of
steel construction, which no doubt will
reduce the maintenance-bill. That looks
like sound policy until you consider the
customers’ point of view.
Merchants, manufacturers and farmers
know that the most economical freight-
rate is obtained by consigning in truck-
lots, but in many types of business the
practical tonnage is restricted to 10 or
15 tons —customers cannot handle larger
consignments. With 10- and 15-tonners
no longer available, what are these clients
of the railways to do?
Apparently the new trucks going into
service will be 24- and 28-tonners, and —
here’s the catch —if you load less than
that tonnage into one you are still up for
freight for its full capacity. If, alter-
natively, you are content to load your bit
of stuff into a mixed truck with other
people’s goods you lose the advantage of
the truck-rate and are charged freight
on a much higher scale.
Admittedly there are still 12-ton
louvred-vans on the rails, but there are
not enough of these to go round, and,
in any case, vans are not suitable for all
types of goods.
It does seem as if the railways have
looked at their rolling-stock problems
from one angle only—and that not the
customer’s. — Reddit (N.S.W.).
“Puffing Billies”
It is a pity that Argentina should have
to set us an example in the preservation
of railway relics (B. 10/11/ ’54). Despite
many appeals to house one of the old
“Puffing Billies” in permanent display
somewhere near Fern Tree Gully railway-
station at the foot of Victoria’s Dande-
nongs, the official answer has come that
all three of them are to be broken up.
The last trip by one of these little AN-
class engines was made recently, when it
surprised the locals by chuffing up the
hill to Belgrave, where it collected some
rolling-stock that seemed to have been
overlooked in- the rush to close the old
line down.
It could never be maintained that
public interest is not sufficient to warrant
the effort, because one of the main attrac-
tions at the Victorian Railways’ recent
centenary exhibition was a “Puffing
Billy.”
The narrow-gauge railway through the
ranges from “the Gully” to Gembrook
is a famous bit of Victoria’s past. As it
evidently hasn’t been possible to preserve
even part of it as a tourist attraction,
the other obvious move would have been
a sensible —and relatively inexpensive—
gesture.—Karrimba (Vic.).
Libraries
The only cogent reason that can be
advanced for the financial support of
libraries by Governments and municipali-
ties is the encouragement of the reading-
habit among schoolchildren. Against
that, however, most schools and colleges
have excellent libraries which are not
confined to school text-books.
Here in Victoria nearly half the out-
put of municipal libraries is fiction —
popular novels read mostly by the
married women of the community for
their time-passing, entertainment value.
People don’t expect their picture-
shows, sport or even their radio entertain-
ment for nothing. Why should they get
their reading free? Municipal libraries
should not handle fiction —that could be
left to the libraries connected with news-
agencies, one or more of which exist in
most townships in Australia. — Plain
Australian (Vic.).
Road Congestion
Much of the traffic-congestion on our
main roads at weekends and holidays can
be attributed to the fact that the main
roads are practically the only ones that
the motorist can drive on in reasonable
comfort without damage to his car and
risk to his life.
There was a time when the weekend
motorist got off the highways and explored
the interesting country along the byways.
Today the country along the byways is
just as interesting and the motorist is
just as keen to explore it, but the roads
are in such a condition that all pleasure
would be taken out of the trip if he left
the highway.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.)
Blarney
I thought “Ek Dum’s” review of John
Hetherington’s Blarney (B. 15/12/’54)
was better than the book. I suggest that
it is “Ek Dum” who should write “as
good a book as could be written about
him” (Blarney).
Nearly 50 years in the Department of
the Army gave me many opportunities
of following the career of General
Blarney. When on duty with the Minister
for Defence (the late Sir George Pearce)
in London, in 1919, I was not surprised
to find that on each occasion when the
Minister conferred with General Bird-
wood or General Monash, Blarney was
always present. That is significant.
It was a surprise to me to learn that
Blarney was ever such a devout church-
man as “Ek Dum’s” review states. From
time immemorial there have been great
soldiers who were great Christians or
men who feared God —Moses, Joshua,
Gideon, Cromwell, Gordon and others
—and I admit that I should not have
been surprised to learn what I did about
Blarney.
One great British general in World
War II was Lieut.-Gen. Sir William
Dobbie, defender of Malta. Dobbie
was a deeply religious man, who even
went so far as to write a book (A Very
Present Help ) to prove that his faith in
God had a tremendous effect on the fate
of Malta. The book has a whole chap-
ter devoted to the subject of “Christianity
and Military Service,” in which Dobbie
puts the case from the standpoint that
the Holy Scriptures contain no prima
facie case for the assumption that the
profession of arms is unlawful for a
Christian. Rather does it appear that
there is an overwhelming one for the
converse.
He points out that it is noteworthy
that the four (Army) Centurions men-
tioned in the New Testament are all
spoken of with a greater or lesser degree
of commendation. Two especially (the
Centurion at Capernaum and Cornelius)
are held up as being God-fearing men,
whose faith God honored. There was no
vestige of a suggestion that they were
exhorted as men of faith to give up their
Army career; rather can we assume that
they were encouraged to honor God in
it.—Tas (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 311
Across
I—The1 —The tune is looked after like
people who don’t think so very
highly of the army and navy.
(3-6)
s—Aromatic Muriel goes to heaven.
(5)
7 —Where the Australian variety
might be expected to put four in
to the limber at a Latin point.
(6, 8)
9—Ball men lie for a great soprano.
(6, 5)
12 —Indulge in sport on the water
squabble. (3)
14 —The surf isn’t dangerous for
crooks. (4-8)
17—Candelae lighted on bonfire night.
(5, 7)
19 — Polled the five of Irish Edward.
(5)
20— Depressed by exercise, and yet
it’s one way of getting to the
Riviera. (4, 5)
21 — They’re not power-houses but
they contain a lot of “force”
where charges may be legally
made without the Prices Com-
missioner's consent. (6, 8)
24 —It is quite unpleasant turning an
abode for a hog. (5)
25 —Frank fed an aspirant who
questions Diana’s ability to make
assignations. (9)
Down
1— A six-footer with a nurse and
2-down without the 51 regarded
as capital by Madagascans. (12)
2 The king-emperor takes Volume
I to read one of Napoleon’s
earliest battle successes. (6)
3 Milly will have none of my
crook. (3)
4 Live 500 in the pink and obscene
turn before 50. (5)
5 Cat upset this dictum. (3)
6 Wines go wrong in the Aunt Sally
stalls. (8)
B—The8 —The disposition on a painting
medium. (7)
10 — Having no beard, West separates
Ina from Kelly. (7)
11 — Airline nuisance with a foot. (7)
13 —It takes nous across the Channel
to the rear, and is Channel-cross-
ing the member of the Hebrides
group? (7, 4)
15 — Fortification about uncertainty.
(7)
16 — Feelings of East with groundwork
for resolutions? (8)
18—This is a city in Washington,
thinks to the deep stupor. (6)
20—Victorian town makes a worker
(or a drone) stand on the current.
(5)
22 — Why four is the first creeper. (3)
23 N.Z. bird. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 310


IN
1111111111 l
i
'mi
Helping to maintain our standard of living by the manufacture
•I*
of high-quality wrapping papers and. paperboards that simplify
the transportation and distribution of many basic commodities
that enter our homes daily
* The term paperboard embraces cardboard,
fibreboard and other heavyweight papers.
Basically the same raw materials are used for
paperboard and paper.
A.P.M.
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Mary vale and Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; and Petrie, Qld. (under construction)
