

/
e
i
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
STRIKE-WAVE WORLD PATTERN
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76 —No. 3936
Wednesday, July 20, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Offiee, Sydney, N.S.W- Australia, tor transmission by Post as a Newspaper
THE WONDERFUL CLOCK
AT WELLS
PLAY-ACTS THE PASSING HOURS
AMONG the many outstanding
features of Wells Cathedral in
Somerset is the famous clock in the
north transept which is a special
attraction for visitors from many parts
of the world who visit the cathedra!
every year.
The clock is six hundred years -old,
and was invented by Peter Lightfoot,
a monk of Glastonbury (c, 1335). In
addition to telling the time it records
the phases of the moon and the position
of the planets, and at first sight it looks
like man’s first attempt at making an
automatic calculating machine. The
original works, still in working order,
can be seen in the Science Museum in
London. The dial is a mass of lines
and numbers and is six and a half feet
in diameter. It consists of a large outer
circle which is divided into the twenty-
four hours of the day, and around
which moves a star; the minutes are
indicated in a smaller inner circle.
The quarters are struck by a seated
figure in the costume of the time of
Charles I, which sits high up on the
west wall to the left of the clock dial.
This figure is known locally as Jack
Blandiver* and he heelkicks two bells.
Simultaneously outside the cathedral
two figures in 15th-century armour and
known as “Quarter Jacks” strike two
bells with their halberds. The hours
are sounded by a bell in the central
tower, while inside the cathedral, on
the platform above the clock-dial, four
mounted knights revolve in a tourna-
ment. Two come out of the cave on
the right and two from the left, and at
each revolution one is knocked back on
his horse by the sword of his adversary.
The tournament spins round to a
standstill until Jack Blandiver starts
the whole mechanism in motion again
an hour later.
No. 255: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


LOOK DOWN THIS LIST
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc , that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
‘My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
‘During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
‘I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
‘I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount 1 shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
‘I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
umq
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereaeh St
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
—CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
address
(S.B. 1455) AGE
BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
select and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
The Red Page
FISH STORIES
Mr. G. B. Hobbs’s Fisherman’s
Country (Geoffrey Bles) has come just
at the right time when the trout are
all down among the stones debating
whether they will take Tup’s Indis-
pensable, the Burrinjuck Wonder or
nothing at all next season and when
anglers have nothing to do but read
books about fishing, try to remember
to take that broken ferule to Sil Rohu’s,
and tell lies.
And what colossal stories—not to
use the more impolite term —Mr.
Hobbs does tell! There was the time
in Otago when he caught the brown
trout weighing 37£lb. ... well, not
quite. Somebody else caught that,
years ago. It was the New Zealand
record; and now, says Mr. Hobbs
sadly, “anything over 101 b.” is rather
uncommon. But here is Mr. Hobbs
himself at work, and not doing too
badly:—
Despondent at the lack of fish in
the stream [the Irwell, where it flows
into Lake Ellesmere, Canterbury,
N.Z.] and at the signs of other
anglers still having sport at the mouth,
I finally remained opposite the
“dimple,” and for half-an-hour fished
it continuously. Twice more the fly
seemed to hesitate, then, apparently,
it was fast in the bank. But the
bank moved! My line began to
travel upstream and I knew I had a
trout at last. The fight was of the
heavyweight kind, plenty of cruising
about and little exciting movement.
A lucky stroke with the gaff, for I
was without a torch, brought it to
an end after quarter of an hour, and,
in the dark, I tapped a good fish on
the head and resumed my fishing.
Presently the other men packed
up...,. . Their torches soon revealed
my fish lying peacefully in the grass,
but, under the beams of light, sud-
denly grown wonderfully large.
Excitedly they weighed it for me,
12|1b.!
Here he is at Lake Tarawera, in the
North Island, apparently in consider-
able danger of being knocked down by
the herds of trout milling round him
like bullocks: —
Beside the Te Wairua stream we
pitched a small tent and unrolled our
sleeping-bags .We presently set
up our rods and stealthily
. approached the mouth of the stream.
There the lake water went down
steeply into considerable depths, and
the ripple from the stream was
quickly lost upon the surface, thus
revealing some 30 or more rainbow-
trout which milled round and round
like yearlings in a rearing pond.
These, however, were of about six
pounds in weight! With a new
lure I soon caught two fish of
between 51b. and 61b., and my
companion made a similar catch.
He told me that just after Easter,
1943, he and another angler had
caught six trout between them in
this same place, but their fish had
weighed from 1 lib. to 121 b.
Of course one’s companion has
always caught half-a-dozen twelve-
pounders last year, and usually lost
a battleship; but one must not doubt
Mr. Hobbs’s stories. He is a New
Zealander (now exiled for his sins to
the chalk-streams of England) and a
fisherman: two unimpeachable guaran-
tees of veracity. Ajid, besides, by
sheer cumulative weight, ton after ton
of trout pressing in in evidence, his
stories gradually become not merely
credible but normal. Instead of plod-
ding twenty miles of water in rain and
wind to come home triumphantly with
a two-pounder and a cold, it seems
perfectly natural to go out in Lake
Wakatipu and see and do things like
this:—
Moving back from the bank, I
passed beyond the first rapid, seeing
as I went two big fish lying in its
foot-deep, broken water. From
behind a bush I studied the first
pool. The water flowed slowly
between clear banks, and it was full
of large brown trout. They were big
spotted ones —nothing smaller than
31b., the heaviest probably 71b. At
the head of the pool some half-
dozen of them rose as they cruised
slowly up into the tail of the rapid,
then slowly back again. Opposite
me, midway down the pool, the
current was against the far bank,
and there a trout was rising every
few feet. Where the pool shallowed
at its tail they rose continuously;
one fish alone would make about
four rises in a minute. Never before
had I seen such a rise, let alone such
big fish rising so freely. I had a
small Red Spinner on, and a
3X cast.
It begins to seem a fact that in one’s
own first boyhood season one strolled
down to the Avon at Christchurch and
caught two trout on worms and two on
the dry-fly, improving the next year to
47 on worms and 31 on fly; and if
memory preserves a dim and awful
record of no fish at all in the first
season and only two the next —and
those taken in a half-comatose condi-
tion in a public park at New Plymouth
—it seems memory, and not Mr.
Hobbs, that is misleading. And in the
end, after one has fished those won-
derful waters with Mr. Hobbs from
Taupo to the Bluff, one is completely
prepared to share his disappointment
in that lamentable evening on the
Hawea when, fishing with the ranger,
“We did get three each, though nothing
over 31b. Had more caddis-fly been
about we would have done better, but
it was a coldish night and still rather
early in the season.”
But the sad truth is, even in New
Zealand this is not normal fishing. For
one thing, Mr. Hobbs got most of his
material, and his trout, apart from his
boyhood recollections, from a special
fishing-trip he made on a return to his
native land; and on that trip, whether
at Taupo or in the bleak South Island
lakes, he fished hard and long and far
in a way that is hardly possible either
for the New Zealander with a week-
end to spare or the tourist over from
Australia for two or three weeks. For
another thing, this is a most formidably
expert fisherman—he even caught trout
in the Hutt at Wellington—and if he
freely tells what flies and methods he
used (and confirms one in a long-held
suspicion that when the trout seem to
be rising freely at a hatch and yet will
take nothing they are really feeding on
nymphs on their way up to the surface:
so that one uses a wet-fly instead of a
dry) one scarcely hopes to emulate
such prowess.
Still, two, if not three, three-pounders
would do very well on a poor evening;
and if it is only a matter of sticking
at a tiny “dimple” for an hour it may
be possible for anyone, one incredible
night, to lay a twelve-pounder calmly
in the grass. Some sort of fishing like
this is available to every visitor in New
Zealand, and anyone from Australia
who intends to fish that fortunate
country should not fail to read Mr.
Hobbs; for, along with his own experi-
ences, including salmon-fishing in the
South Island and a superb journey in
a home-made flat-bottomed boat down
the swirling snow-waters of the Wai-
makariri, he has written what amounts
to practically a complete fishing-guide
for both islands.
If he has omitted one’s own favorite
stamping-ground of Taranaki, concern-
ing which he makes the outrageous
assertion that the trout there poison
themselves with beetles that have been
eating the a fish-
story that is! —it must be admitted that
the Stony, the Patea and the Wai-
ngongoro, delightful little streams as
they are, do not exactly teem with
37^-pounders.
Dufy and Memlinc
One of the more ingenious devices
of contemporary art-criticism is to say
I that a thing which is clearly not so is
so; thus are the heathen confounded.
For instance, about the most
unlikely feat which Dufy, the French
painter of carnivals who was born in
Le Havre in 1877, could hope to
accomplish in art was to paint an
equestrian portrait. George Lambert
in Australia would have been able to
do that, though one forgets whether
he did or not. Sir Alfred Munnings of
the Royal Academy certainly could do
one, and has done them by the
thousand; and, glossy and machine-
made though his pictures looked in last
year’s Royal Academy, Sir Alfred has
done a lot of fine work in his day, as
his horses under the trees in the N. S.
Wales National Gallery attest.
But Dufy—slight, childish, gay;
pretty and ephemeral as a butterfly—
genuine equestrian portraiture was
altogether beyond his range. So. M.
Pierre Courthion, writing the com-
mentary for the Faber Gallery Dufy,
blithely asserts, on the strength of the
pleasant and elementary little sketch of
“Les Cavaliers sous bois”:—
Dufy was probably the only
artist of our time who could paint
an equestrian portrait-group of a
whole family as here.
M. Courthion also likes to believe
that Dufy was “a man of the Renais-
sance,” which he most obviously was
not —he was a man of the early 20th
century in Paris; that “he knew his
ships and boats,” which he clearly did
not, painting merry little wobbly toys
precisely in the manner of a child; that
his habit of doing little white
squiggles to avoid the difficulties of
painting water may reasonably be
described as his “circumflex-accent
calligraphy”; and that, in the age of
Orpen and Augustus John, “portrai-
ture is a neglected art in our epoch.”
These flights of fancy seem to have
troubled the editor of the volume,
R. H. Wilenski, who, in quite an
unusual outbreak in this series, con-
tributes some anguished, if diplomatic,
footnotes, wisely referring the reader
to “the English school.”
However, the commentary reads
very well if you have a due apprecia-
tion of what Dufy actually did—to
make a very pleasant, childish carni-
val of the races at Deauville and the
puppet-shows, hot-dog stalls and
swings along the Champs Elysees where
the children dash themselves to-and-
fro for 30 seconds at threepence a
pop—and if you accept the fact that
M. Courthion generally means the
opposite of what he writes . . . that
Dufy was not, as on page 4, “a
magician who never repeated his
effects,” but rather, as the commentator
puts it in a lapse into accuracy on page
3, an artist who “restricted himself to
certain themes, chosen from the visible
world, repeating and expanding them
untiringly.”
Keeping quiet company with the
artless piping of Dufy is the Faber
Gallery “Memlinc” with a commentary
by Charles Johnson; and there, from
this Flemish painter born in 1438,
coming suavely down the centuries
from an epoch when portraiture,
though but recently developed in
Europe, was certainly not neglected,
are the serene and profound master-
pieces of “Head of a Man.” “Man
Holding a Coin” and, most beautiful
of all, accepting the attribution to
Memlinc, “A Young Man in Prayer.”
And when Mr. Johnson writes:—
All his pictures clearly show that
his genius consisted in giving
reality to a world, not as it is,
disfigured by destruction, violence,
pain and hatred, but. as we can
occasionally imagine it, when in
solitude or communing with a
gentle spirit among green pastures
and beside still waters —
it really is pleasing to learn, from a
contemplation of the pictures, that he
means, and they mean, exactly what
he says.
Reviewed Briefly
Birds as Individuals, an exceptionally
interesting nature-book by Len
Howard, has been added to the Collins
Fontana series. Other recent titles are
Neville Cardus’s Autobiography, Ngaio
Marsh’s Final Curtain and Helen
Ashton’s Doctor Serocold.
* * * *
Divided We Stand: Michael Sheehy
(Faber). A southern Irishman and a
Catholic, Mr. Sheehy in this short book
advocates continuance of the present
partition of Ireland; citing the Scandi-
navian and Iberian peninsulas as
proofs that two nations can amicably
cut-up between them a piece of ground
which geologically seems to be a
unity. A very pretty argument; how
they’ll take it in Cork and Kerry is
another matter.
* * * *
Beverley Nichols’ Cat Book: Beverley
Nichols (Nelson). Slim volume of cat-
photographs with milky text by the
author.
TV T- * *
Requiem for a Wren: Nevil Shute
(Heinemann). The latest of Nevil
Shute’s destined-to-be-bestseller “Aus-
tralian” novels: in this one the narra-
tor, heir to a huge sheep-station,
returns home from overseas to find
that the parlormaid has just suicided.
She was a girl who had endeared her-
self to her employers by her thought-
ful winning ways. Her identity is a
mystery until the hero discovers her to
have been a most unusual person—an
ex-member of the Women’s Royal
Naval Service with an extraordinary
war record and fairly credible motives
for retreating to the outback. It may
not be Mr. Shute at his best (which
seems to have been about 10 years
ago), but it’s a craftsmanlike job in the
lightweight -novel class without any
mistakes about the Australian back-
ground.
jt jN** «i< i| t ♦
The Urn Returns: A. E. R. Gilligan
(Rigby). Arthur Gilligan was captain
of the 1924 English team in Australia,
and has been out with the last three
English Test sides as a commentator
for the A.B.C. Sub-titled “A Diary of
the 1954-55 M.C.C. Tour of Australia,”
this book is just that. There are signs
that it was a rush job—many mis-
spellings of cricketers’ names, with
correct as well as incorrect spellings
often on the same page: Maddocks as
Maddox, Mackay in three different
styles, Brennan for Drennan and
Horsall for Horsnell, the English
tourist Andrew as Andrews, McCartney
for Macartney, etc. The figures are
reliable, though in one place noted
“346” should have been 246.
Make Your Stories Sell: D’Arcy
Niland (Angus and Robertson). The
advice to the young short-story-writer
is all very sound, and most of it, with
reservations, could be of use to the
writer who wants to make art as well as
make money. But it is a pity that Mr.
Niland chose to adopt a style so vulgar
and an outlook so remorselessly com-
mercial. A useful addition would have
been , a chapter on the magazines in
Australia and abroad to which the (
beginner can contribute his stories, and
the kind of material they will accept.
* * * *
A World of Love: Elizabeth Bowen
(Jonathan Cape). The extraordinary
thing about Miss Bowen’s new novel
is that one finds oneself reading it
afterwards, when thinking it over,
almost more than when actually perus-
ing its nearly too-mannered pages. The
characters only really come “round”
when the story is completed, for only
then does the reader possess all the
relevant information about their past
histories and present predicaments. The
background is an Irish estate which is
running to seed and “haunted” by a
soldier who died in the 1914 war.
How the “ghost” is exorcised and a
more wholesome state of mind and life
is achieved by the main characters is
really the theme of the book. Admirers
of Miss Bowen’s superbly individual
style may be dismayed by one or two
infelicities —like the one describing a
woman “being never not known to be
either indisposed or away on holiday.”


1
m
rcO
t 5 4
w
1
!• s ' tt
:. e
•?
asWfiV“
$ % '
n
.8 ■,_^
s:
o*'
" U
<J a.o
■
Sj
2 &>
cL
(ptA 1
£
tfS*
■Mm
Made strong for a longer life
"Roamer” 17-jewelled Swiss watch is an ideal watch for the active
man on the land. It has a strong lever movement, and it’s waterproof,
dustproof and shockproof. With a sweep seconds hand for split second timing,
luminous dial, and strong leather band. Chrome with a stainless steel back
is priced at £l6/5/*, and gold-filled with a stainless steel back
is priced at £l9/18/-.
“Tudor Oyster” 17-jewel
Swiss lever, waterproof,
dustproof, shockproof,
sweep seconds hand. Lumi-
nous dial. Priced at £26.
?'
:,r-
-. .
'• n
■
Wm
HBRIH
■
“Mulco” Swiss 15^jewel,
lever action, with sweep
seconds hand. Gold filled
case, steel back, pigskin
band. Priced at £l2/5/'.
“Lupus” Swiss 15'jewel,
lever action, with chrome
case. Priced at £B/5/6.
.3-,
I
m
1
' Wi
ms
: m
WBlm
?•
mm
mts m
“Oris” 7'jewel Swiss
pocket watch. Lum. dial,
£4/17/6; plain, £4/12/6.
Ar '5 U.T.H l \ ADVt? R:T.f
nthony Horderns’
il
m
m
:
Zeiss 8 x 30 Deltrintem
with centra) focusing. Ideal
for all sporting events, etc.
Weighs only 16 ounces. Priced
at £42/10/'. Easy terms.
“Binoctem” 7 x 50. Favourite of
pilots on sea-going vessels.
£64/19/'. “Dekamen” 10
x 50, for discerning objects
at great distances. £7l/10/-
JEWELLERY, GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET.
TELEPHONE: 80951. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 20, 19SS
Vol 76—No. 3936
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings 0 opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
WORLD STRIKE-WAVE
SINCE the advent of the Menzies Government
there has been, until lately, almost a quiet industrial
front. This was mostly because of the ousting of
Communists from the leadership of key unions by
use of the Arbitration Act amendments providing
for supervised ballots at union elections.
The era of peace now seems to have ended.
There has been an outburst of industrial pressure
applied with new techniques and so world-wide
that it seems to have a common origin, a common
guidance and a common direction.
The new strike is unofficial. Ostensibly it
breaks out in defiance of union-leadership, which,
however, does not seem to do much to end it. It
is common to branches of great industries at long
distances from each other. Its manifestations
obviously have a rhythm and a timetable which in
some cases look accidental. The parallel opera-
tions of illegally striking groups at different ends
of the earth present such similarities as to give rise
to suspicion. They are usually in unions in which
there is a Communist ingredient, though sometimes
not. But they are all of a pattern both as to location
m the industrial body and as to method.
In Australia last year there was trouble on the
waterfront, overtly generated in the first place
outside the union executive. Immediately after-
wards the same sort of trouble developed among
the dockers in Great Britain. The dock-strike of
1954 ending in the United Kingdom, there was a
wave of waterfront trouble round the world in such
strange places as Zanzibar and Singapore, followed
by more wharf trouble in Australia and another
unofficial dockers’ strike in the United Kingdom.
As in Australia early in 1954, so in Britain and in
Singapore these troubles antedated an election
campaign.
In Sydney last year there- was a lightning
outburst among bus mechanics which closed-down
bus-transport suddenly and callously in some
suburbs. Within a few weeks in the same union,
in the same sort of circumstances, a lightning strike
closed down bus-transport in parts of London
without a pretext that was worth a button. A long
newspaper-strike in the United Kingdom at a
moment when it was known that an election was
approaching was followed almost at once by diffi-
culties in the newspaper business in Sydney.
The strike-wave in Sydney is an alarming mani-
festation. The entry into the field of those unions
on whose services the health and safety of )ives and
property depend is something so wanton that it is
difficult to comment on it with restraint. The fire-
men’s irresponsible outburst was bad enough, and
the fact that it was generated in premises owned by
the biggest and most lawless Communist-led union
in Australia invests it with an aura of suspicion
that there was more behind it than the mere
impatience of a body of men which in the past has
found its conditions lagging compared with those of
other bodies of workers. The gas-strike is even
more reprehensible, since the time chosen for it is
a bitter period of winter when sickness is rife. It
runs with the normal pattern of gas-strikes. It is
obviously Communist-based, and is accompanied by
the usual demand for nationalisation of the gas
companies so as to place gas-users even more
under the thumbs of the agitators than at present.
It is in the sanitary-workers’ strike, however, that
the wantonness of unionism reaches its zenith.
Some unrest in Australia is based on
selfishness and attempts to capitalise on last year’s
decision by the Arbitration Court on metal-trade
margins a decision deplorable not in itself but in
its aftermaths, since a fairly reasonable award to
one branch of technical trade which was meant to
reward genuine skill has been used as a pretext by
unions which have not the remotest claim to
consideration.
c ,^°?P e un i° ns can’t be blamed perhaps
for feeling the need for increases and for failing
to appreciate the inevitable effects when they are
given the lead by senior officers of the civil service.
But often it is not the body of unionists who
provoke the pressure. It is margins which have
provided the pretext on which malign agitators
have been able to stampede workers into unofficial
strikes.
In the morbid atmosphere of grab which now
prevails, it seems difficult to reason with the public
and make it understand that every pound it gains
in wages has a cumulative and multiplying effect
on the rise in prices. It is just as futile, perhaps,
to bring it home to the strikers in the present out-
breaks that they have a responsibility to the
community and to the wives and families of tens
of thousands of workers in other trades.
At least, however, Governments and poli-
ticians might try. But a remarkable feature of the
present situation is the dead silence of all politicians
who are not on the side of disorder. Mr. Menzies
and Dr. Evatt might not exist for all they have had
to say in the present crisis, and Mr. Cahill and his
Ministers have never been more tight-lipped. Yet
it is essential that the whole situation and its effects
should be clearly explained by those in authority.
The effects of marginal increases should be stated
in plain figures for everybody to know, and the
dangers that lie ahead should be highlighted. Both
the Commonwealth and New South Wales Parlia-
ments should be in session to forestall the major
industrial crisis which will certainly come if the
effects of increasing wages, side by side with
increasing and spreading idleness and sloth, in
industry continue to pile up.
As Mr. Chalmers, an independent “Labor”
man in the N. S. Wales Parliament, said, “In a
crisis like the present it is not adequate just to have
an executive Government.” Strike results promise
to be such, along with mounting costs of
food and services produced by fraudulent pressure
for so-called “margins,” that it is time the whole
question became a non-party responsibility which
all sides should combine to discharge.
Local-government Under Cahill
WHEN the doleful history of “Labor’s” long reign
in New South Wales is written it is probable that
the sorriest chapter will be that covering the party’s
doings in the field of local-government—a field on
which the name of Cahill is indelibly stamped, first
as Minister for Local Government under McKell
and McGrrrrr and later as Premier. Paternity is
not always a simple matter to establish, but there
is no room for doubt that Mr. Cahill is the father
of all the amalgamation-schemes which took the
“local” out of local-government and put party-
politics in.
Greater Sydney is the prize pie-melon of the
Cahill Plan, although it is not as swollen and
bloated as conceived in the original prospectus.
But although its scope was reduced as a result of
vigorous protests, the ultimate intention of its
sponsors remains unchanged. That the Cahills still
cherish an Elgar-like obsession to make their
Greater Sydney greater yet is shown by a comment
of Minister for Local Government Renshaw that
“at the appropriate time” Woollahra, Waverley,
Randwick, Botany, Marrickville and Leichhardt
would be dragged into the municipal grasp of the
“Labor” Caucus Council. Unfortunately, in local-
government affairs, “greater” seems merely to mean
bigger in area, number of electors, revenue and
expenditure and number of men on the payroll. In
practice it has assuredly not meant greater in
achievements, in service or in prestige and popular
esteem.
The same plan which produced Greater
Sydney and amalgamated out of existence two-
thirds of the local-governing bodies in the County
of Cumberland, was also responsible for dotting
the map of the county with a rash of Greater Thises
and Thats, mostly against the wishes of and often
in the face of strong protests from the communities
concerned. Wollongong and Shoalhaven were two
areas which had greatness thrust upon them in this
manner. The way had been paved by a Cahill-
devised amendment to the Local Government Act,
abolishing the right of ratepayers to demand a poll
in such cases. A royal commission in 1946 recom-
mended that ratepayers should be given the right to
vote on amalgamations, but its advice, being out of
step with “Labor’s” desires, was ignored. When a
deputation from Nowra sought an interview with
Mr. Cahill to protest against the Shoalhaven plan
he refused to see them.
The absorption of industrial suburbs gave
“Labor” permanent control of the new Sydney City
Council, leaving the business and commercial
houses which really are the city and which provide
the lion’s share of its revenue almost unrepre-
sented. In order to tighten “Labor’s” grip on
councils generally compulsory universal suffrage
was introduced in the name of democracy. It was
a specious plea. But it produced a fecund crop
of “Labor”-dominated councils, peopled with
loyal party-men eager to keep in with the State
executive and make their marble good for future
vacancies in the State and Federal Parliaments.
There is little doubt that the final pattern of
“Labor” local-government includes paid aldermen,
thus severing the last link with the tradition of
service to the community in local-government.
If Greater Sydney had lived up to the professed
expectations of its begetters the N. S. Wales capital
would by now be the best-administered city in the
world. Instead . . . well, by 1953 allegations of
mismanagement, waste, trafficking in licences, and
worse, reached such proportions that even the
Cahills themselves apparently decided that there
was room for improvement, though they repeatedly
refused a royal commission. Their “improvements”
took a strange course.
In November, 1953, about a month before
local-government polling-day, they announced
sweeping changes in the system of election and
representation. The changes were unsought and
unwanted; nor did they conform to a consistent
pattern. In Sydney the ward-system was abolished;
the whole of Greater Sydney became one electorate
voting under proportional-representation. The
number of aldermen was reduced from 30 to 20,
and the Lord Mayor, instead of being chosen by the
aldermen from among their numbers, was to be
elected by popular vote of the whole electorate.
In other municipalities wards, no longer the right
thing for Sydney, remained perfectly fitting and
proper, as did the traditional way of choosing
mayors and shire-presidents.
It was no doubt one of those remarkable
coincidences which are barred from fiction, but
which cannot be prevented from happening in real
fife, that the abolition of the Sydney wards made
possible the elimination from the City Council of a
group of “Labor” aldermen who had become a
little off-side with the party executive. A similar
fortunate coincidence avoided a conflict between
two of “Labor’s” favored sons for the honor of
being Lord Mayor during the Queen’s visit; the
new system enabled the A.L.P. executive to
nominate one of ’em, making his election automatic.
But although an unpleasant smell still hangs
over the whole of Greater Sydney, it is in some
of the councils outside its boundaries that the lid
has really been lifted off the municipal dustbin.
Two suburban councils, elected on the Cahill
democratic principle with big “Labor” majorities—
in one case an entirety—have had to be suspended
for malpractice and their areas put under the
administration of an officer of the Local Govern-
ment Department.
The circumstances are well-known. In
Leichhardt the charges included the use of muni-
cipal staff, equipment and materials for work done
on the property of aldermen and their wives; prefer-
ment to relations of aldermen; flagrant waste of
public money in the purchase and disposal of cars;
purchase of cars for employees with avoidance of
sales-tax and financed by loans of council money
free of interest; bribe-taking and -seeking. The
departmental report said that it was “clear that
the corrupting influence of the aldermen had
affected the whole administration of the council.”
The fifteen aldermen of Leichhardt Council
were removed from office in April, 1953. Some
time later ex-mayor Erwin went to jail on charges
arising out of the inquiry.
The Bankstown affair was not, at the time, so
extensive, but after investigation of repeated com-
plaints, the council was dismissed and an administra-
tor appointed. The chief charges concerned the
misdemeanors of the assistant-electrical-engineer,
J. Fitzpatrick. The report stated that he “had tried
to mislead the council and its officers in reports
about purchases of electric-motors and that no
reliance could be placed on his reports.” There
were other charges of electrical appliances being
wrongly sold and allegations that contracts for
blue-metal and gravel had gone to Fitzpatrick’s
contractor-brother (now in Canberra lock-up on
charges of contempt of Parliament) improperly.
Fitzpatrick was dismissed by the administrator. He
appealed, but the Industrial Court upheld the dis-
missal. Both Leichhardt and Bankstown are still
without a council.
Minor rumblings have come from other
councils. The Marrickville municipality was
admonished for “saving” sales-tax on cars for its
employees; “cement” is a word that still causes an
awkward silence in Baulkham Hills; requests for
an inquiry into the affairs of Greater Shoalhaven
have met with no success.
The latest material for the chapter comes from
Sutherland Shire, where a former shire-president is
asking for an inquiry into the circumstances of
land-transactions by the former council-engineer.
It is alleged that the engineer bought for £lO5O a
tract of land which was within the defined “green-
belt” of the Cumberland County Council and that
the land was subsequently re-zoned as a residential
area with the result that the engineer was able to
sell at a profit of about £27,000. The Minister has
commented that although the transaction does not
appear to be illegal, it is contrary to the accepted
standards of public administration and is “morally
unjustified.”
Legal or illegal, transactions of this nature
shake public confidence in the whole system of local
government. The shire-president has said that
“the shire-engineer should not be placed in a differ-
ent position from the outside public.” In the reverse
sense to that intended by the president that is just
what the outside public may fear has happened.
The remark is peculiarly akin to one passed by one
of the Leichhardt aldermen a couple of years ago:
“We were just as entitled to get a job done by the
council as anybody else.”


THE STRIKE WEAPON


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Common Aim?
This week began with the East and West
limbering-up for the Geneva Big Four
Conference, with expressions of hope
and promises of conciliation on both
sides.
The announcement by President Eisen-
hower that at this first conference between
heads of the great Powers since the meet-
ing at Potsdam in 1945 the West will try
to “end the spiral of alarm, suspicion
and distrust among nations” is normal
to his habit and to what the West has
been eagerly working for since the end
of the war- —peace, which it has been
unable to attain because of the deliberate
aggressive thrust and menacing attitude
of Russia and its conquered satellites.
What is abnormal is the Russian atti-
tude, but whether it is abnormal in
essential policy or only abnormal in line
remains to be seen. Marshal Bulganin,
spokesman for Khrushchev, says that he
hopes to find a common language with the
West at Geneva, and declares that “we
never intended, and do not intend, to
attack anybody—that would contradict
our principles.... ..it is our deep convic-
tion that a system of collective security
in Europe is a practicable matter. Some
people think capitalism is better than
Socialism..... .this is an argument which
cannot be settled through war. Let every-
body prove in peaceful competition that
he is right.”
This is Communist double-talk. It flouts
all the theories on which Marxism-
Leninism are based. It has always been
Communist theory that capitalism must
be “overthrown,” world-wide. It has
always been agreed at the Kremlin that
“peace is indivisible,” and can only be
obtained when there are no “imperialists”
left to divide it. It has always been
agreed that this peace can be attained
only through violence and a period of
world-dictatorship of the proletariat in
which the exploiters shall be “crushed.”
The military strength of Communist
armies has always been a fetish with
their organisers as an incentive to
encourage local revolution and intimi-
date the weak.
The suggestion of peaceful competi-
tion with capitalism is, in fact, immoral
by Communist theory, and the claim that
it would “contradict our principles to
attack anybody” should raise a loud and
cynical laugh in the Baltic States and
Finland and Poland, not to mention
Turkey and Tibet.
The position seems to be either that
Russia is abandoning Communism alto-
gether or it isn’t. It certainly can’t con-
tinue to exist if its Russian exponents
propose to follow in future the principles
adumbrated by Bulganin. If he is, as he
says, going to Geneva “for very serious
purposes, an attempt with my colleagues
to change the spirit that has characterised
all Governmental relationships of the
world during the past ten years,” his own
Government’s outlook must first suffer a
revolution.
This the world devoutly hopes has
happened. But Moscow will have to
prove it and answer a lot of questions
before outsiders accept proof. Why, for
instance, a system of collective security
in Europe if the antagonism between
East and West has been liquidated?
That question seemed to be answered
by Russia’s very next move after Bul-
ganin’s statement. Collective security in
Europe seems to mean an election to suit
East Germany as a basis of German
unification, immediate neutralisation of
Germany and the stripping of the West
of Nato and all defences as a preliminary
to anything else if the scheme announced
following Bulganin’s approach means
anything.
Without Backbone
Following the gas strike, the meat strike,
the firemen’s strike, the sanitary-workers’
strike, naval-dockyard workers’ strike,
the newspaper strike and the various
waterside strikes which dot the history
of every year in Sydney, there is now to
be a transport hold-up.
It is a moot point which is more
feeble in its reactions—the public
or the N.S.W. Government. Both
seem prepared to accept any atrocity
by strikemongers in a humble spirit
and without reprisals. The sabo-
teurs are clear in their intention The
meeting will involve 2000 workers and
will paralyse Sydney’s transport services
—deliberately and with blackmailing
intent. The Railways Union is joining in
and threatens that this first essay in
stiong-arm tactics will be only a preview
of what is to come.
It demands for its members “margins”
—irrespective of skill, of course, for the
term “semi-skilled” by which it seeks to
lend a semblance of legality to part of its
proposed exactions has only a formal
implication. And if no “margins”
are forthcoming it will hold a
State-wide stoppage, no matter who
suffers.
The Government affected merely looks-
on. Mr. Wetherell, Minister for Trans-
port, wrings his hands and says that the
department can’t provide emergency ser-
vices, but will be graciously pleased to
allow private firms to carry their staffs to
work if they care to go to the expense of
putting seats on lorries and burning their
own petrol. The Premier, Mr. Cahill, on
these occasions, disappears into the red
or somewhere and has nothing to say
against illegality and strong-arm methods.
The custodians of the “Labor” platform,
which plumps for an arbitration-system
based on law, are as silent as the grave.
New South Wales seems to be com-
pletely in the hands of a lawless industrial
AUTOMATION BOOSTS
OUTPUT—page 28
element which is fast becoming its real
Government.
And nobody seems to care. Those on
the receiving end merely sit down and
wait for the trouble to blow over. One
day they will be surprised to find a
depression on their hands as the result of
the cumulative effect on these sporadic
and purposeful stoppages which the Com-
munists are hailing with so much glee.
Any Government which owned three-
pence-worth of intestines would call
Parliament together and pass special legis-
lation to make the disrupters sorry they
had ever been born. But the miserable
crew in Macquarie-street will put up with
anything so long as it is perpetrated by a
union. Any employer who attempted the
illegalities which have been routine among
unions would be dealt with as if he had
been hit by a cyclone. Illegality is the
prerogative of only one class in the class-
war.
Who Are the Winners?
“In the ACT”: When Labor Minister
Harold Holt declared that in the long
run there would be no winners from the
strike-wave in N.S.W., he forgot for a
moment that Australia’s competitors and
enemies would undoubtedly benefit from
the disruption of production and the
general setback to the economy. He
warned that most of the strikes were the
result of demands for payments above
award rates, a process which, if success-
ful, would set in motion another spiral
of salary- and wage-increases. He also
pointed out that the bitter faction-fight
still raging in the industrial movement
had distracted union officials from
counsels of restraint, and led many of
them into a contest of “militancy.”
The Communists, he added, had con-
centrated at the shop and factory level,
supporting propositions such as a basic-
wage increase and a doubling of margins,
which had specious attractiveness. The
rank-and-file unionists had failed to
realise they were being exploited for the
Communists’ own purposes. It would be
unfortunate if the union movement, which
had benefited for some years from the
boon of full employment, did not now
have sufficient strength of leadership and
responsibility to make a continuance of
full employment possible.
Certainly the main losers are the union-
ists out on unjustifiable strikes, their
families, and the rest of the suffering com-
munity. The “bosses,” so-called, suffer
less material hardship, although they see
me fruits of skilled planning and long
labor going down the drain as part of a
major national loss. The Communists
win, and the rest of the field is nowhere.
Cahill's Bull! Pass
When Premier Cahill, with an impos-
ing cohort of shock-troops, moved
into Bulli electorate a few weeks ago to
open “Labor’s” campaign in the by-
election for the Assembly vacancy he
warned his supporters in the district that
'-'pP osl ti° n was watching Bulli hope-
fully for signs of a “Labor” setback. In
words that probably implied more than
ne ieit, he assured his listeners that such
hopes were vain, and that the result of
tne poll would prove it. It is not
recorded that his words brought forth the
mocking laughter they deserved, but
anyone who took them as revealing
Cahill’s real expectations must now be
wondering what sort of political prophet
the N. S. Wales Premier is.
Bulli has always been a “Labor”
stronghold—so much so that the Liberal
party has seldom put up a candidate. At
the previous election, in 1953, the late
L. B. Kelly had only a Communist against
him, but in 1950 he was opposed by a
Liberal, L. Strachan, as well. On that
occasion the voting was “Labor,” 9963 ;
Liberal, 4688 ; Communist, 1422. At the
by-election on July 9 Strachan stood as
an Independent and the Liberal candi-
date was L. Jarratt. “Labor’s” man, the
winner, was R. F. Jackson, and the
Communist starter L. Boardman.
Final scores were: Jackson, 8726;
Jarratt, 3811; Strachan, 3359 ; Boardman,
1187. Thus the combined “Labor”-
Communist vote was down 1472 on the
1950 figures and the anti-“ Labor” vote
was up 2482. The swing was not suffi-
cient to lose the Government the Bulli
seat, but if repeated throughout the State
it would, on the basis of the 1950 figures,
be enough to cost Cahill Armidale,
Bondi, Canterbury, Concord, Coogee,
Drummoyne, Dulwich Hill, Dubbo,
Goulburn, Hurstville, Kogarah, Mudgee,
Randwick, Rockdale, Ryde, Sutherland
and Young.
It is too soon yet for the N. S. Wales
Libs and Cockies to throw their hats in
the air and start planning a Cabinet, but
the sitting “Labor” members in all those
seats would do well to begin looking
round for an alternative occupation.
The "Struggling" Cahills
A Melbourne paper said last Wednes-
day: “Sydney, Today.—State Cabinet is
struggling this afternoon to find a # way
to end the Sydney strike-wave, the most
serious since the coalfields’ strike in
1949.”
The “struggle” must have been weak
and short. Since the beginning of July
Sydney has been threatened with a gas-
shortage, a third of its citizens have been
deprived of sanitary service, its meat-
supply looked like collapsing, part of its
eastern suburbs was without buses, and
presently its daily and Sunday newspapers
ceased publication. All because of strikes.
What did Premier Cahill have to say
about all this? Nothing!
What did the N.S.W. Cabinet do about
all this? Nothing!
All the strikes began as revolts against
decisions of the arbitration courts and
industrial commissions. Nobody is more
vociferous than this Cahill Government
about standing by industrial arbitration
and upholding the law.
But vociferous is all. The people can
go without gas, or sanitary services, or
meat, or anything else without this
“Labor” Government even making the
motion of flexing one little finger of
action to help them.
However, something did come out of
the “struggle.” According to the State
political roundsman of “The Clarion,” a
paper enthusiastically supported by Dr.
Evatt as “championing the rights of all
Australians,” the Cahills “will soon have
to consider new taxation and increased
tram- and bus-fares.” The new taxation
is tipped as coming from increased
betting-taxes and imposition of entertain-
ments-tax.
So, digging a hole for his sanitary-pan,
while his wife tries to cook the meatless
dinner on a spirit-stove, the Sydney citizen
may reflect that the Sydney Government
is far from idle.
Victorian Complaint
Melbourne “Herald” went to some
trouble last week to convince Victorians
that they “are getting a bad deal on roads
—paying more than they are receiving.”
This was based on Commonwealth allo-
cations of petrol-tax to the States and
Victorian Premier Bolte’s statement that
Victoria got back only 40 per cent, of
what its people paid in petrol-tax.
The argument was that the formula for
allocating petrol-tax funds was 30 years
old, and, therefore, out of date ; and that
petrol-tax grants to the States totalled
£24 million last year, of which £900,000
was set aside for strategic roads, N.S.W.
got £6.3 million, Victoria £4.1 million,
Queensland £4.4 million, S. Australia £2.6
million, W. Australia £4.5 million and
Tasmania £1.2 million.
This is claimed to be unfair to Victoria
because it has four times more motor-
vehicles than W.A. and twice as many as
Queensland. In other words, it means
that a State should get money for roads
from the petrol-tax fund only in propor-
tion to the number of vehicles registered
in that State.
It’s a bad case of parochialism. Roads
are a national asset, just as they are a
national liability. If it is right for the
Commonwealth to collect a tax from
motorists for the building and upkeep of
roads, and for the States to spend the
money on roads, then an allocation to
each State purely on the number of
motor-vehicles it may own would be all
wrong. A not illogical end to that would
be Australians practically prisoners in and
around their big cities because no good
roads led away from them.
The derided formula of allocation is
that Tasmania receives 5 per cent, of the
fund, the others then divide the remaining
95 p.c. by splitting 57 p.c. in proportion
to population and 38 p.c. in proportion
to area. Since, with regard to defence
and national transport, areas which roads
will serve are almost as important as
populations, this seems fair enough.
Mr. Bolte is, perhaps, justified in join-
ing in the general howl of the Premiers
for more money. But, like the other
Premiers, his outlook must have some-
thing national about it, particularly in
regard to roads. Victoria’s economic
welfare depends on the economic welfare
of all Australia. A good road from Dood-
lakine to Katanning is almost as im-
portant to that welfare as one from Foots-
cray to Mirboo North —no matter who
pays for it.
We Remember Malaya
“Actin’’ : Surely no one in Australia, not
even the bemused adherents of the Evatt-
Burton line, will disagree with the Prime
Minister’s statement that “from Austra-
lia’s point of view it is vital that Malaya
and Singapore should be defended with
success against attack.”
The key words, which will ring in the
hearts of everyone who recalls the bitter-
ness of the fall of Singapore, are “with
success.” It is on that aspect that Aus-
tralia must inevitably feel some misgiv-
ings, and must require the strongest
assurances. The memories of what hap-
pened in 1941-42 and later are addition-
ally burdened by knowledge of the terror-
ist campaign still being waged in Malaya
by Chinese-supported Communists.
This is the disturbing background of
the area on which we must build and
safeguard our outer defences. The
Malayan peninsula itself is more vulner-
able than in 1941, perhaps, to attack by
land, by air (with the range of aircraft
vastly increased and with guided missiles
as a new menace), and by sea (from long-
range and large submarines carrying new
weapons).
Portion of its population is disaffected,
and even non-Communist elements are
infected with the virus of “nationalism”
and “anti-colonialism” which has swept
Asia and made the West unpopular in
many areas. This hostility is unjustified
in Malaya, but its existence cannot be
denied, and it poses an additional security
problem there for the bases which are
ta be expanded or established.
Australians will not welcome the
kind of assurances that were still com-
ing out of Singapore in the middle of
1941 from those who either should have
known better, or who knew better but
felt unable to say so. We shall need to
know that the ability of the 'bases to
withstand any attack is no matter of
words, but of deeply-based and adequate
military and political provision. If, in a
future war, our bastions in Malaya fall,
we shall be vitally and perhaps mortally
Wounded.
Equality and the Law
The Ruth Ellis case in London provides
another instance of the difference between
British and Australian methods, and is
one more pointer to the reasons why law-
lessness is growing in some parts of this
country. The difference is that the law
in Great Britain always runs; in Aus-
tralia only sometimes. In Britain it
matters not what party is in power: a
statute is a statute, or a common law a
common law, to be enforced. In Aus-
tralia, Parliament is fast becoming a
subsidiary manifestation in lawmaking,
its statutes only enforceable so long as
the party in power feels that it ought to
enforce them. Regularly when “Labor”
is in power a large body of statute-law
is placed in abeyance for the duration and
treatment of criminals and conventions
about remissions cease to be governed
by the careful rules established by experts
and jurists. They are subordinated to
the will of some Minister who makes his
own rules to suit his political feelings.
Mrs. Ellis was young, good-looking and
the kind of woman to appeal to the
flapper press. In Australia the atmos-
phere created round her both before and
(<Continued on next page)


during her appearance in court would
have had an ingredient of sympathy
which it would not have been permitted
to have in England.
Every precaution was taken to see that
her trial was dispassionate, that advocacy
was limited to the actual issues of truth
and contributory circumstances. And let
it be said that counsel for the defence, as
in most cases, was no less scrupulous in
his fairness than the prosecution. It was
established that the lady procured a
revolver, loaded it fully, went several
miles to look for her victim, fired at him
in a, public street to the danger of the
passing public (one of whom came out
of the affray with a permanently injured
right hand), shot him again, and then,
after he fell bleeding on the footpath,
put two more bullets into him.
The murderess was sentenced to be
hanged in three weeks. A wave of the
same sort of sentimentality as is apt to
sweep the evening-press in Sydney on
such occasions, and which does so much
to sell papers, then burst its bounds. In
fact, in respect of the case after it had
been tried, London might have been
Sydney. The “victim’s” memoirs were
published, her glamor was advertised,
the horrors of hanging were described
in macabre and thoroughly inaccurate
detail by columnists and others who
obviously had never seen anybody
hanged. But it was all of no avail.
Thanks to the mock sentimentality of
“Labor” in Australia towards criminals,
deterrents are gradually being whittled
away. In some States the deterrent
against murder involved in capital-
punishment or any other punishment has
almost ceased to exist. The most brutal
N.S.W. murderer need fear no more than
12 years’ detention in a comfortable jail
like Goulburn, where, if h*e is of suffi-
cient talent, he can expect to take
University examinations or learn music.
It is no wonder that murder and
attempted murder seem often to be com-
mitted here on the most trivial pretexts.
In Britain the woman poisoner, the
deliberate murderer, need have no doubt
about her —or his —fate if proved guilty.
Neither glamor nor sex has any effect on
justice. In Australia, both in regard to
the criminal and in other fields, law is
a party matter which means that in
certain circumstances there is no law and
“glamor” is a distinct advantage in a
criminal trial.
POLITICAL POINTS
Sydney strike-front. On Monday morn-
ing papers were on sale on pre-strike
conditions; gasworkers were meeting to
consider settlement - terms ; sanitary -
carters were holding an unofficial open-
air meeting; slaughtermen at Homebush
abattoirs were debating whether they’d
report for “limited killing”; tram- and
busmen were planning a stopwork meet-
ing to protest against one-man buses;
railwaymen were still considering their
threat of a 48-hour hold-up; Garden
Island dockyards were still idle; Parlia-
ment was still in recess.
• •
The Czech Government has allowed
Mrs. Sispera to return to England. The
Polish Government has allowed Mrs.
Paszukow to return to England. The
Cahill Government has evicted Mrs. Jones
from her farm.
• •
Like the High Court, the Privy Council
did not take long to make up its mind
on the Browne-Fitzpatrick case. Five
minutes after Sir Hartley Shawcross (for
the appellants) had completed his submis-
sions their lordships dismissed the petition
without deeming it necessary to hear the
Government’s case. So much for the
eminent authorities, learned and un-
learned, who claimed the sentence was
unconstitutional!
• •
Comment of an indignant woman as
she knocked-back the proffered copy of
the Sydney newspaper-proprietors’ com-
posite “Daily Herald-Sun-Telegraph-
Mirror” at Wynyard-station bookstall:
“No, I wouldn’t buy that. It’s the
strikers’ paper.”
• •
Urangan, 22 miles from Maryborough,
on the Queensland sugar coast, began
its first day last week as a separate port.
A wharfie wanted the job of billy-boiling,
cleaning the mess-room and acting as
reliefworker when someone was tempor-
arily absent. He didn’t get it. He was
told to do other work and refused. So
the 60 wharfies struck. The ship they
were working then sailed with only 15
tons of a 350-ton sugar consignment.
Separate it may be, but in this respect
Urangan is one with all the other ports.
• •
Lithgow’s Saturday-shopping argument
is still going strong. Shops, or a large
proportion of them, opened last Saturday
and their proprietors claim to have done
a roaring trade. Shop-assistants again
boycotted the shops and called upon all
unionists to do likewise. Judging by the
number of customers in the shops there
must be a great number of non-unionists
in Lithgow,
• •
Cost-of-living figures for the June
quarter, released by the Commonwealth
Statistician last week, maintained the
slight upward trend of the two previous
quarters. The C-series index for Sydney
rose by 0.7 per cent., for Melbourne
1.2 per cent., Brisbane 0.5 per cent., Adel-
aide 1.8 per cent., Perth 2.2 per cent.,
Hobart 1 per cent., six capital cities 1.1
per cent. Had basic-wage adjustments still
been in force, these changes would have
meant weekly increases varying from Is.
in Brisbane to 6s. in Perth. Factors con-
tributing to the rise were increased mar-
ginal payments, higher rents and fares.
Agitation for a restoration of quarterly
adjustments may be expected as a result
of these figures, but it seems unlikely that
the court would consider the movement
of sufficient dimensions to justify defrost-
ing the basic wage. The total upward
movement since September, 1953, is 2.9
per cent. In 1952, when inflation was
really at the gallop, the index rose by
more than 5 per cent, in the June quarter.
Evatt still isn’t satisfied with the statis-
tician’s figures. He “feels certain” that
the actual cost of living has increased “by
more than is recognised by the statisti-
cian’s limited estimate.” The statistician
more or less exploded that story last year
when he disclosed results of a new index
which had been compiled over the two
previous years on a regimen more in
keeping with present conditions than the
old C-series regimen. There was scarcely
any difference between the results of the
two methods.
• •
Irreplaceable documents in the office of
the War Historian are not merely subject
to the risks of storage in an old wooden
building, though that is bad enough. After
a recent weekend the staff found that
possums had got through the ceiling and
played old Harry among the papers.
Fortunately they hadn’t tackled the more
valuable ones, but the loss was appreci-
able.
• •
Queensland Premier Gair has been hot
on the trail of Bukowski, State A.W.U.
leader. B. is a disciple of the Evatt fac-
tion, G. wants “unity.” So all North
Queensland grinned when someone
remarked, “Gair is putting his faith in the
machine, but he is seeing that it is well-
lubricated.” With the dinkum oil?
• •
“Liberal Opinion,” organ of the N.S.W.
Libs, says a Bankstown (N.S.W.) Council
employee told police he’d been assaulted
by a taxi-driver. A man was arrested and
committed for trial. Nothing more has
been heard of it. “Liberal Opinion” went
to ask Attorney-General Sheahan about it
—but he was on the high seas en route to
Europe. Bankstown? Yes, the same
place.
NATIONAL EMBLEM
Victorian Premier Bolte, asked to com-
ment on reports that increases in tram-
and rail-fares were imminent, said such
rumors were “pure speculation, which
served no useful purpose” and only con-
fused the public. No half-baked state-
ments would be made on Budget-policy ;
the Government’s decisions would be
made at the proper time. Quite right—a
Government can’t give previews of its
Budget. But surely Mr. Bolte doesn’t
want to stop the public’s traditional sport
of guessing what the Budget will bring?
• •
Someone asked Frank Beaurepaire if
he intended to stand for Lord Mayor of
Melbourne this year—the term of office
would cover the period of the Olympic
Games. He replied that he’d certainly
consider it if asked. It would be hard to
find a more appropriate candidate.
Beaurepaire repped for Australia (swim-
ming) at the 1908, 1920 and 1924
Olympics, was an official at three others
and was Lord Mayor 1940-42.
• •
After the 17 new Vic. Legislative
Councillors elected at last month’s poll
had been sworn-in J. A. Little (Anti-
Communist “Labor”) informed the presi-
dent that he had been chosen as leader
of the State Labor party in the Upper
House, in place of P. L. Coleman, who
had lost his seat. This brought to his feet
J. W. Galbally, one of Cain’s ex-Ministers,
with an indignant denial of the right of
Little and his colleagues to assume that
title for their party. He said the Victorian
electors had given a clear indication on
which they considered the real “Labor”
party. At this stage the president inter-
rupted with the remark that the House
could not go into the details of the inter-
necine warfare of what was once a unified
party.”
Galbally’s protest at Little’s claim is
quite understandable; his faction has 10
members in the Council against Little’s
five, all of whom are hangovers from the
old’Parliament. At the same time, he
made no protest last April when Cole-
man laid claim to the same title.
• •
Claws are being sharpened in Sydney
in preparation for the special A.L.P. con-
ference called for August 14 to elect a
new State executive. The Evatt group
is planning a big rally to be held about
a week before D-day to pledge support
for the Hobart resolutions. Idea is to
invite all N. S. Wales “Labor” members,
State and Federal, to take the platform.
This will mean that fence-sitters will have
to declare themselves before, instead of
after, the conference. And there are quite
a lot of fence-sitters.
• •
According to Wheat Board chairman
Teasdale wheatgrowers face “a very seri-
ous crisis” and may have to stop grow-
ing wheat. What about all those Wheat
Board blokes who’ve been careering round
Asia, sending back reports of big “poten-
tial” markets?
• •
Victorian Transport Minister Warner
has asked 11 organisations to give him
three names each, from which he will
select 11 men to constitute a State Trans-
port Authority. After that he will create
a Metropolitan Traffic Committee. The
Authority will “advise” on this and that,
“assist” on that and this, “consider” any-
thing left over, and “concern” itself with
operation of road-, rail-, and air-services.
This is only “the first step” in the “trans-
port-co-ordination plan” of the L.C.P.
What the last step will be nobody knows.
• •
Seven of Sutherland’s 15 shire-council-
lors offered to resign and contest another
election provided the other eight would
resign with them. The president, Council-
lor O’Brien, replied that the majority of
the council would reject the suggestion.
The majority consists of seven “Labor”
councillors and an Independent.
• •
Rival “Labor” factions in Victoria are
still trying to sort out the shoap from the
geets. The Evatt-Cain executive has
expelled six suburban councillors for
failure to give an affirmation of loyalty.
All are supporters of the Anti-Communist
“Labor” party. A Footscray councillor
has been readmitted after agreeing to
toe the line. In Tasmania, Senator Cole
has officially confirmed his adherence to
the Joshua group in the Federal Parlia-
ment.
• •
More c.-0.-l. statistics. In 1952-53 (no
later figures available) the people of
N. S. Wales spent £2l per head on alco-
holic beverages and £8 Bs. on tobacco.
When it is remembered that the State’s
million children do not smoke or drink
and that the adult population contains
quite a lot of total abstainers and an
even greater number of “moderates,” it is
clear that someone is getting through a
whale of a lot of grog and smokes. The
comparable figure for food is only £7l
a head —and there are no total
abstainers from food.
• •
Advocating indentured Asiatic labor
for northern Australia, L. C. Canfield,
general-manager of Prudential Assurance
in Australia and New Zealand, says he
has seen what can be done with a cheaply
paid work-force in the Middle East, the
Sudan, Egypt and Palestine and that “the
unions are taking a shortsighted view in
opposing this policy, which, in the long
run, will prove against their own
interests.” The gentleman seems to be
about 60 years behind the times. The
White Australia policy is not the property
of the trade-unions; all political parties
in Australia are pledged to it. Further-
more, it is most unlikely that any Asian
country would permit its nationals to
enter Australia as indentured laborers
without the right to remain as free citizens
—and rightly so.
• •
Because buses have been substituted for
trams at weekends on some routes
trammies at Rozelle depot in the Sydney
metropolitan area will be rostered for
work on weekdays only. This has brought
from the secretary of their union the
complaint that the men “will lose all week-
end penalty-rates and have broken shifts
as well.” The argument for penalty-rates
is tfcat they compensate men for losing
weekend leisure. To speak of “losing”
penalty-rates because no weekend work is
required makes nonsense of the whole
argument.
• •
Britain’s Labor party has appointed a
committee of four to “probe” the party’s
general organisation in the light of its
defeat at the general election. It’ll be a
terrible thing if they report that it wasn’t
so much a matter of organisation as of
policy.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
'T'HE Cobb and Co. stamp, designed
from a Sir Lionel Lindsay original
and certainly one of Australia’s neatest
issues, has come just 115 years after the
invention of postage-stamps. The first
known collector, incidentally, was a
demure governess of the Isle of Wight,
who had the police knocking at her door
as soon as her mysterious hoarding mania
was discovered. The cops realised the
innocence of her strange hobby and left
her to it. When he heard of this, Eng-
land’s penny-postage pioneer Sir Rowland
Hill conceded: “Ah, well, ladies are
notorious for collecting all sorts of
rubbish! ” —“Moorapi.”
❖ ❖
“Bullswool”: As the trees in my front-
garden grow, branches sometimes touch
the incoming telephone- and electric-light
wires. Then a P.M.G.’s man asks per-
mission for his men to lop. In similar
circumstances, the Victorian Electricity
Commission sends me an ultimatum
threatening me with the rigors of the law
if I don’t have the job done within 14
days. I think the P.M.G.’s Department
is a very good department.
>!♦
“Piper”: George, becoming thirsty
during one of the current Old Vic per-
formances at Sydney Tivoli, slipped
across the street for a beer at the interval.
Business was far from brisk, a fact he
mentioned to the barmaid. “Yes,” she
said, “they’re funny shows they’re
putting on now, all right. Usually at the
interval we put on an extra girl. But
this crowd’s funny. Don’t seem to need
a drink. Nice people, you know, but
peculiar l"
❖ ❖ ❖
“8.C.A.”: Reference in The Bulletin
and lesser papers to the wife of the Lord
Mayor as “the Lady Mayoress” is in-
correct. With the exception of,the cities
of London, York, Belfast and Dublin,
wives of Lord Mayors do not share the
title. I presume the correct title for this
lady would be “the wife of the Lord
Mayor, Mrs. Hill.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Peter B.”: Tell “Jindril” (B. 29/6/’55)
that the upper-lip stubble seen on the
pastoral fraternity has a practical use for
some of us. No mo. in summer and my
lips burn, peel and crack.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: These cold nights conjure up
memories of a superlative fireplace I
inspected in Sydney’s suburb of Castle-
crag. A cheerful fire was crackling in it
when I came into the living-room, but
when my host fiddled with a gadget near
the mantelpiece, lo! the wall behind the
hearth —it looked like copper—turned a
somersault, then descended near the front
of the hearth and the fire was cut off
from us. He escorted me into the bed-
room on the other side of the wall, and
there the same fire was going its hardest.
Picture yourself sitting by the fire all
evening, then, when you decide to call
it a day, you turn a knob and undress in
your bedroom before a roaring fire.
❖ *
“Old Repertorian”: “Sundry Shows’”
comment that J.C.W.’s sunshine throws
no shadows (B. 29/6/’55) reminds me that
when Gregan McMahon gained a striking
effect with a moonbeam shining through
French-windows the then J.C/W. star-
producer (long since, we hope, enjoying
Eternal Light) was so struck by the idea
that at the next opportunity he had a set
with French-windows at the back and a
window on either side —and a moonbeam
shining through each! •
❖ ❖ *
“Ikew”: Soon after arriving in London,
and while waiting for a permanent job, I
became secretary to an exotic interior-
decorator. A chaise-lounge upholstered
“Oh, no—I love to hear you talk about the Catt agreement. Do
tell me—what ARE Gatts?”
in white goatskin was ordered, and I was
told to find the skin. It was a bit of a
poser for a new arrival, but, starting with
the telephone-directory under “G,” the
Goat Club seemed the answer. When I
stated my business, emphasising that the
skin must be white, there seemed some
confusion at the other end. “But isn’t that
the Goat Club?” “Yes,” said the clipped
female voice, “but this is a naval officers’
club.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Metralia”: A Sydney store has been
holding an Italian exhibition. Between
men's hats and winter underwear I came
across a Venetian gondola. Painted black,
it put me in mind of Wagner’s death in
Venice. True to lifelong dramatic form,
he had a gondola-funeral, for which, true
to lifelong financial form, someone else
very likely paid. But, whatever its roman-
tic uses, the gondola doesn’t come up to
“We might have better luck at the back-door.”
scratch on the practical side: length about
that of a tram, yet seats only four. Our
transport-boys should clout on to so
gloriously inefficient a vehicle for use
on the harbor.
❖ ❖ ❖
“O. K. Lee”: My experience with
furniture-removalists has apparently been
different from that of “In the ACT”
(B. 29/6/’55). My entire household
furniture survived literally without a
scratch the long haul between Brisbane
and Melbourne. Watching two rather
abbreviated removalists casually stroll
with my piano up a rather narrow stair-
way to a second-story flat, I could not
help recalling how some 19 years ago
I’d seen a crew of 16 Torres Straits
Island “boys,” each 6ft. and 12st., make
heavy weather of shifting the same piano
down a gentle slope to a landing-stage.
I’m content to give the removalists their
head now, since the time I spent several
days packing and crating my goods and
chattels, only to find that this service was
part of the removal-contract and that my
work was all undone, and the same goods
stowed in less than half the cases, in under
two hours.
❖ ♦> *l*
“Pip Tok”: Ever noticed the political
propaganda put over by shop-assistants?
Or is this sort of thing confined to my
own town, where higher prices, com-
modity shortages and poor quality of
goods are all attributed to some sin of
omission or commission by the Federal
Government? The Shirl who recently
served me with black-pudding answered
my comment on a rise in price by explain-
ing that the higher price resulted from
short supply caused by the Federal Gov-
ernment’s action in starting blood-banks.
In my simplicity, I’d always thought
the main ingredient of the good old
blut-wurst was bullocks’ and not human
blood. In censuring the Government, my
informant forgot to credit Mr. Menzies
with checking a form of cannibalism by
the unwitting.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Geisha” (Tokyo): Business entertain-
ment in Japan is usually conducted in a
geisha-restaurant. You eat sitting cross-
legged on the tatami floor, to the accom-
paniment of singing and dancing by the
geisha-girls. When liberal quantities of
sake have been consumed, the men join
in these gayer activities, and on such
occasions I am invariably eventually
asked, “Now you sing us some of your
songs?” As “Alma” (B. 25/5/’55) says,
there is only “Waltzing Matilda,” The
Bulletin's recent publishing of old
bush ballads has been of assistance, but
either Australian music was not designed
for Japanese instruments or vice versa.
❖ ♦♦♦ *
“Nakhoda”: Tell “H.A.L.” (B.
6/7/’55) that it is over 30 years since I
visited my native city and nobody bothered
to inform me that Colonel Light had
been shifted from King William-street to
Montefiore Hill, where I helped to cele-
brate Queen Victoria’s diamond jubilee.
Perhaps, since he seems to be on the spot,
“H.A.L.” can tell me where Hercules is.
There would have been more good reasons
for Adelaide aldermen shifting him than
shifting the founder of the city, since it
was a favorite sport of youths to delete
his figleaf. It invariably took the
aldermen several weeks to hear of it.
Meantime the stream of pedestrian-traffic
into King William-street would increase.
Then a monumental mason would be
sent along to restore the figleaf, and the
traffic would drop to normal. Also,
there’s the Aphrodite which stands, or
used to stand, on Victoria-terrace, and
which occasionally received similar atten-
tion. Whenever this happened my father
used to hurry down and interview the
lady for his paper, to see if her ideas on
purity and beauty coincided with those of
the City Fathers.
* *
“Doynest”: A word invariably mis-
pronounced by radio-announcers (B.
6/7/’55) is “lingerie.” Instead of angli-
cising it into linger-ree, which would have
some justification, the radio chaps always
use the pseudo-French “refined” speech
of the shopgirl and call it “long-jyer-ay.”
I can never fathom why they will not con-
sult their studio dictionary, and say
“lan-jyer-ee,” which is close enough to
correct French for English ears; or,
better still, drop the word altogether in
favor of the plain English “underwear.”
“Narumee”: Another word frequently
mangled in pronunciation is “cyclamen,”
over which I heard a heated argument in
the cold office of a senior Government
official between the official and his secre-
tary, she barracking for “syke-lammen,”
and he drawing her attention to “sick-
lammen,” as prescribed in several dic-
tionaries. The lady retired to her
dudgeon. “Greek and Latin are dead
languages, aren’t they?” she shrilled. “So
how does anyone know how they’re pro-
nounced?” Those may have been the
sentiments of the Melbourne “Age” news-
announcer, referring to Wilson’s Promon-
tory, who gagged, recovered himself, and
brought out, in five rolling syllables,
“Prommonnottary” 1
* s * * •
“Peter Simple”: Take the every-day
word “solder” and see how few people
stick to the dictionary-recommendation:
“so-der.” Go into a shop and ask for a
stick of “so-der,” and the assistant will
probably produce some carbonate of soda.
And yet Fowler’s Modern English Usage
says that “only half-educated people pro-
nounce it as other than ‘so-der.’ ” Most
dictionaries insist on that pronunciation,
too, although the O.E.D. says that
“so-der” is favored by only American
dictionaries and the word can be cor-
rectly pronounced either way.
BERT, TOO
When Einstein lay dying
His noble aplomb
Was disturbed by the thought:
“I invented the bomb.
I didn’t know what
Human beings would do” —
And Bert Evatt added
‘‘Me, too, sir; me, too”
Yes, Einstein had come
To the end of the road ;
He exclaimed in dismay
“Why, the world may explode!
I gave them the formula —
That’s all, it’s true —
But it causes me grief”
“Yes,” said Bert. “And me, too.”
“In fact,” went on Bert,
“Though I’m not so well-known,
I invented a formula
All on my own:
To my shock and surprise
It exploded, and blew
My party to ribbons —
Me too ; yes, me, too.
“Oh, I know what it is
To be out in the cold.
It’s as though you’ve been buried
Without being told—
Like most Hiroshimans
I haven’t a clue
As to where l have gone
Or they’ve scattered me to.
“If I hadn’t invented
That brilliant idea,
That magical formula:
‘Santamaria,’
I might still be a leader
With my own point of view
Instead of an echo :
Me, too; yes, me, too.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TTAL GYE (illustrator of The Senti-
mental Bloke ) gave an afternoon-
talk to the Melbourne Poetry-Lovers’
Society on June 24 on his days with
“Den” and The Bulletin. I told him
of the wedding of a friend of mine, the
bride was Doreen, the husband Bill, so
a copy of the book seemed the thing;
but the dear old soul who gave the book
carefully removed all Gye’s drawings of
Cupids wearing only their expressions and
a straw hat or beaded handbag. “Oh,”
said Gye, “that’s nothing. ‘Den’ gloated
for years over a review of the Bloke in a
South African paper in which the critic,
“Well, I'll leave you two to talk about old times."
after giving the book most lavish praise,
besought all readers first to remove the
illustrations before settling-down to enjoy
the book.” “Den’s” laugh fell flat when
George Robertson, of Angus and Robert-
son, sent Gye a wire about his Glug
drawings saying his drawings would sell
even a Dennis book. Brian Elliot said in
“Southerly,” 1952: “Hal Gye’s illustra-
tions should never be lost; they belong to
the Bloke like his overcoat—if not his
skin.” Quits—and a great combination,
—“Kate.”
“ Margreth ” : “Doric”
(B. 22/6/’55) reminds me
of the politeness of Sydney
cops. Two businessmen
from Melbourne driving
around Sydney streets
came to a five-ways where
a laconic policeman was
on duty. Wanting to
make a right-hand turn,
they pulled to the centre of
the road beside the cop.
Unused to Sydney traffic,
they waited a couple of
seconds; then the driver
asked was it O.K. to go
around now. Back came
the reply: “You’d better,
son, if you don’t want my
bloody arm to fall off.”
♦> ♦> ❖
“Bo”: Unless the cus-
tom in the U.S. is different
from that of other parts of
Christendom, the director
of that fine film “A Man
Called Peter” notched
quite a blue in one
sequence. Dr. Peter
Marshall, the Scotsby-
terian preacher whose
hard - hitting sermons
stacked ’em in the aisles in
Lincoln’s old church in
Washington, reaches the
capital late at night on his
way to his new incumbency and decides
to look over the big church with his
young wife. They both enter, she hatless
—not even a hanky or a scarf to coyer
her perm. She the Meenister’s guidwife,
and he doesn’t even deliver her a sermon!
As Rabbie mightn’t have said:
Waesucks, ye gowk, I’ll wad a boddle
There’s whigmeleeries in your noddle.
+> <♦ ❖
“A.W.”: One notes that the Sydney
gas workers’ strike involved a Mr. Justice
Ashburner.
* ❖ *
“Birrana”: Like “Mac Hoots” (B.
6/7/’55), we also have New Australian
neighbors with language - difficulties.
Karl’s main trouble is not so much with
the pronunciation as with the meaning
of words. When he told me that his
kinder had taken home a push-cart to
catch mice I worked it out that he meant
“puss-cat.” And when one morn-
ing he said he had painted his sore
“kneck” with a bottle of iderdown
I again guessed his meaning. But
he fairly flattened me when he came to
me in the garden and, my wife looking-
on, asked for the bloomers I had
promised his missus. It certainly took
a bit of quick thinking to get myself out
of this, but in a flash it came—bloomers,
blooms, flowers!
“F.A.M.”: I accept the correction of
“Airs-crew” (B. 29/6/ ’55). I had seen
Neville Duke’s Test Pilot and Sound
Barrier on the shelves at Greenslopes
Hospital, in Brisbane; a bad blue on my
part, including him in a list of Australian
authors. I think I am right in saying the
library at Greenslopes has only one of
P. G. Taylor’s books — Call to the Winds.
Other Queensland writers, as well as Mr.
Lamond, have presented this library with
autographed copies of their books, notably
R. S. Porteous, Roy Rulcock, Bernard
O’Reilly. An admirable gesture on their
part, and any writer who cares to imitate
it will be assured of appreciative readers.
* ❖ ❖
“C.P.G.”: The old game in Melbourne
of trying to land pennies on the ledges
of the Princes Bridge buttresses has
caught on with New Australians; there
seems to be something about it that
fascinates them. One part they haven’t
learned yet is the old lurk of sticking
some chewing-gum on the end of a
weighted string and retrieving the cash.
It’s a fair test of skill, and all you string
you get.
* ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: One scissors-snipper of my hair
(B. 6/7/’55) would hold forth on the
benefit of vegetarian food. I didn’t mind
that so much, but what he regarded as
the piece de resistance for breakfast was,
as he put it, “a hegg hand a honion” —
with the aspirates well-and-truly breathed
out. Those allergic to the herb’s too-
obvious charms found it advisable to go
for a haircut in the afternoon.
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“W.O. Two”: To our World War II
libraries-branch of Army Education in
Sydney came one day a stammering young
padre who, after several false starts,
asked for a copy of Virgins All Upturned.
“It is for a young fellow in my unit,” he
hastened to explain, “not for myself.”
The title had me baffled for a- few
moments, until it suddenly struck me that
what the Sky-pilot was wanting was
Mikhail Sholokhov’s Virgin Soil Up-
turned, a novel which deals profoundly
with the great problem of rural Russia,
the collectivisation of agriculture.
❖ * ♦>
“Hale”: A Perth medico attended an
auction-sale of the contents of an old
home. When the bidding for a faded old
print reached 18s. the doctor, who suffers
from a mild nervous affection, gave an
involuntary nod, and the auctioneer
promptly knocked the small lot down to
him. Rather than explain matters, he
paid-up. Some days later, a visitor, also
a collector, identified the picture as an
early Joshua Reynolds’ print, with a
present-day catalogue-value of 100
guineas.
♦♦♦ <£♦
“E. &O. E.”: Buddhist temples that
depict scenes of violence (B. 15/6/’55)
are not alone in that. Most of the old
churches in Europe have the most ghastly
pictures of tortured Christian martyrs,
more horrifying than the purely-imagin-
ary ones of Judgment Day, etc. Accord-
ing to any theory of child-training such
pictures should either terrify the rising
generation or turn them into little thugs.
But I doubt whether they ever notice
them; if they do, it could be that some
children may show a preference for one
church over another because of the funny
pictures.
“Burr Imul”: Let’s get it straight. In
Herbert Holman’s “London Letter” (B.
22/6/’55) the psephologist was described
as the man behind the electronic brain.
Psephology comes from the Greek word
for vote, and means the study of election-
returns. A newer word is “cybernetics”;
it is the science of electronic computers.
*l* ❖
REMARKS by Ronald McCuaig on the
new edition of Lennie Lower’s Here's
Luck (B. 29/6/’55) remind me that when
George Robertson published that book in
1930 he did so because he shared in
advance the McCuaig appreciation of
Lennie’s sting-in-the-tail technique.
G.R. stroked his beard and chuckled
as he told me: “I’ve just accepted a manu-
script, by a fellow named Lower, after
reading only the first few paragraphs and
the last. It’s a merry thing about a fellow
who had a troublesome son and he ends
by arranging to send the lad to a fairly
remote lighthouse. ‘A remote lighthouse’!
—what a bright idea! ” And the Old Man
chuckled again.
One of my own personal experiences
of Lennie was in Melbourne in the early
1930’5, when he turned up with an assign-
ment to put Test-cricket into proper
perspective.
From the orthodox viewpoint, Lower’s
knowledge of cricket amounted to an
infinite deal of nothing, but that mere
detail, of course, did not cramp his style.
Thus he wrote: “The boys are belting the
ball about with bold and boisterous
briskidity....,l have just eaten the last of
Arthur Mailey’s sandwiches.” What
more elevating information could any
cricket-fan desire?
Anyway, I encountered Lennie near the
press-box at the cricket-ground. We were
standing at the top of the stairs, and on
the landing below us C. B. Fry, famous
English batsman-tumed-correspondent,
was demonstrating to an elderly citizen,
with the aid of a folded umbrella, how
certain strokes should be played. That
sight gave me an idea.
“I’ll bet you two-bob you can’t touch
C. B. Fry for two-bob.”
Lennie didn’t hesitate over this chal-
lenge to his ability. “Right,” he said,
and immediately went down, tapped Fry
on the shoulder, and said peremptorily,
“Lend me two-bob.”
The monocled Englishman stared in
amazement for a moment. Then he
rapped out, “Pardon me, I was address-
ing this gentleman heah!” —and went on
swinging the bat-umbrella.
Lennie allowed a couple more swings
before he resumed his attack. This time
he smote Fry’s shoulder with some fervor,
thrust out a hand, and said very tersely,
“Two-bob! ”
Fry, staring coldly, determined to re-
solve the matter. “I refuse,” he told
Lower, “to have any financial transac-
tions with you whatsoever.”
“ ’Strewth!” gasped Lennie. 'Hie Fry
method of repulse was something out-
side his experience. It left him flum-
moxed. “You win, boy,” he shouted up
the stairs. “You win.”
Hearing this concession, Fry gazed up-
ward and saw me grinning. He also saw
Lower giggling. Accordingly (being him-
self no mean humorist) he, too, relaxed.
“Ah!” he exclaimed. “I thought there
was a catch in it, somewhere!”
A.H.C
RELIABILITY TRIAL
At the 'wheel I take my place,
Resolute and set my face.
I’ve made most comprehensive prepara-
tion
For this truly nightmare drive:
So I’m hoping to survive
The hazards — they’re all in my calcu-
lation.
I have tightened all the nuts
’Gainst the menace of the ruts
So deep and wide and plentiful. I
know it —-
I’ve traversed the route before
And have been its conqueror,
Using many swear-words apropos it.
There are “ horror” stretches, too,
Where the surface is like glue —
There’s no control in that if you start
skidding.
When it’s dry you bear the brunt
Of the dust from cars in front;
Horizon’s zero — brother, that’s not
kidding !
Of stamina it’s a test
Of man and car. The best
Only of both, I vow, could be
emerging
Triumphant. Nerves of steel
I’ll be needing at the wheel
When on disaster’s brink I could be
verging.
Well, I’m set to go, though dread
Be the trials that lie ahead.
If I’m lacking in alertness, woe betide
me !
I have tow-rope, spares and all
On which I may have to call,
And my navigator’s sitting here beside
me.
Oh, I’m no competitor
In the Redex trial; no score
Of points they’ll tab me with. But I’ll
be cursing
On this Sunday p.m. run
With the family. It’s no fun
Our suburb’s thoroughfares to be
traversing!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
William Dudley Refshauge jumps up
from colonel to major-general, and into
the Army’s top medical post, D.-G. of
Medical Services. He’s an obstetrician,
but there’s nothing strange in that —
“obs” and “gynos” are, of course, skilled
in normal surgical procedure. In any case,
the new D.-G. had seven years in the
Second A.1.F., in the Western Desert,
Greece, Crete, Wau, Salamaua, Ramu
Valley and North Borneo, commanded
the 2/2nd and 2/15th Field Ambulance,
and ended-up in charge of the Seventh
Div.’s medical services, with four “men-
tions.” A trifle over 40, he relieves
Kingsley Norris.
• •
From Hawaii, Professor A. Grove Day
(herewith) is looking over Australian
literature on a senior Fulbright Fellow-
ship, with emphasis on historical
novels. A quietly-friendly ambassa-
dor who thinks Louis Becke produced
some of the best writing ever on the
Pacific, the visitor is based at Sydney
University (secondary h.q., Fisher and
Mitchell libraries), and is shortly off to
Queensland, first to read a paper at the
Modern Language Association gathering
in Brisbane, second to roam over the
Reef. Back in the pineapple island he’s
in the English and American Literature
Department of Hawaii University, to
which he gravitated after 20-odd years of
teaching at Stanford University, Cali-
fornia. A Philadelphian, boyhood in
HAWAIIAN PROFESSOR
Mexico, he has himself put between
covers 12 books (the thirteenth now in
type), their subjects ranging from a social
history of Hawaii and a college-reader
for Spanish to the history of Coronado’s
expedition of 1540 (discovered the Grand
Canyon and the Pablo Indians), an an-
thology of great American short-stories
and books for boys. His wife, Fulbright*
ing with him, teaches high-school.
• •
Captain D. S. Bull was a deckboy at
14, first-mate at 19, had his master’s
ticket at 21. Now he’s appointed Com-
monwealth Director of Navigation. He
had an anti-submarine trawler in the
Mediterranean in War I, and for the past
12 years has been principal nautical- and
ship-surveyor with the Department of
Shipping. Handing over, Captain N. G.
Roskruge has had the top post since 1949,
and in his time has been in charge of
Queensland’s and N. S. Wales’s naviga-
tion and lighthouses. A navigating lieuten-
ant of the R.A.N. for most of War I,
after it he was responsible, as Naval
Transport Officer, for disembarking all
returning Diggers landing in Sydney. He
leaves shortly in the Strathmore, to carry
his oar inland in England.
• •
William Leopold Rush, retiring, has
been Comonwealth Public Service Inspec-
tor in Victoria for the past two years,
and in the p.s. for the past 48. An M.8.E.,
he holds a Diploma of Commerce, is
a qualified accountant and a licensed
shorthand-writer. Not by any means
chair-bound—played V.F.L. football with
Melbourne (the Redlegs, now Demons)
and the Richmond Tigers, pennant cricket
for Richmond (captaining first and second
Xls), baseball, too, and helped found the
Southern Golf Club. Administrator as
well—on the Australian Board of Cricket
Control for years, its hon. treasurer since
1952, and last year appointed vice-presi-
dent of the Victorian Cricket Association,
Somewhere in New Guinea with an
anthropological expedition when his
appointment came out, N. W. G. Macin-
tosh will go on return to the Challis Chair
of Anatomy at Sydney University. Bodily
structure has been his subject there for
the past decade, lecturer, senior-lecturer
and reader. The new prof, has been up
to Arnhem Land twice, anthropologically,
and for three years in War II ranged wider
afield, navally.
• •
Francis G. Bradshaw, appointed
Superintendent of Secondary Educa-
tion in Westralia, has been a
high-school district-inspector, master,
deputy-head and headmaster. As a lec-
turer in the Claremont Teachers’ College
and as part-time lecturer in the Westralian
University he taught scores of teachers
how to teach. Awarded a Carnegie
travelling-fellowship some 18 months ago
he spent it seeing how secondary schools
are run in the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and
Europe. Out of school he cabinet-makes
and book-binds. With the-32nd Battalion
A. in War I.
• •
Coming to judge the canines at the
Royal Show in Melbourne, Captain Will
Judy has already judged dogs in the
farthest-north show —Alaska. He had a
connection with Australia —was attached
to Monash’s h.q. in 1918. Captain Judy
and his wife are regarded as the world’s
leading international dog-show judging-
couple. His wife comes with him.
• •
“Pip Tok”: Met in Perth, at the be-
ginning of a lecture-tour of Australian and
New Zealand universities, Professor N.
B. Jopson, a burly scholar who recently
resigned from the Chair of Comparative
Philology at Cambridge. At the beginning
of War I he joined-up as a private, but
the Foreign Office pulled him out to do
a job he won’t talk about even now. In
the more recent disturbance he was in
charge of the Uncommon Languages
Department of British postal-censorship.
He considers the present tendency to
simplify English grammar and cast-off
what he calls “hideous inflections” is
making English the strongest contender
for world-wide usage ; the English spoken
in Australia, he says, is practically the
same as that of England 150 years ago.
That agrees with the view of a writer in
the old “Lone Hand,” who said that most
of the so-called Australianisms were sur-
vivals of older English that had gone out
of fashion in the land of their origin.
• •
M. F. Hardie (Q.C., 1947) goes to the
Bench of the N.S.W. Supreme Court, and
as an additional judge of the Land and
Valuation Court. In law for 20 years,
with comprehensive experience in Con-
stitutional and equity jurisdictions, he was
plaintiff’s senior counsel in the Joynton
Smith equity suit, which ran the longest
of any case heard in the Supreme Court.
He’s an accountant as well.
• •
“G.P.”: Charles Edmondson skippers
a slice of the Snowy scheme: Island Bend
and surrounding Alps. Island Bend is a
mushroom-metropolis; surrounding Alps
contain such knick-knacks as Guthega
dam, M unyang powerhouse. All this
causes much work for Mr. Edmondson.
He likes work. But sometimes he sneaks
off with palette and brushes to commit
the upland scenery to canvas. “Just the
hobby I’ve always wanted.” “Get the
idea from Churchill?” “No—showing
small son to use his paintbox.” As a boy,
he himself got away to a bad start when
the depression wet-blanketed things; he
caught up on the academic side by dint
of midnight oil, determination and black
coffee; put in war-flying with R.A.A.F.
over Italy, East Balkans, Western
Desert, squadron-leader; chuckles over
war’s-end lecture by gloomy dis-
charge-officer: “None of you officers
can expect ever again to hold such respon-
sible positions.” Somebody described his
present job: “He’s in charge of every-
thing that moves.”
• •
Gone on in Perth at 78, Baronet Frank
Hillyard Newnes, head of the British pub-
lishing house founded by his father. A
Cambridge M.A. and LL.B., he was
called to the Bar in 1899, but preferred
publishing. From 1906 to 1910 he repre-
sented Bassetlaw (Nottinghamshire) as a
Liberal M.P., leaving politics to take over
the Newnes business when his father died.
Early in War I he was a sub-lieutenant
in the R.N.V.R., left the sea for the
barrack-square in 1917, and finished as a
captain in the Bedfordshire Regiment.
For years one of his jobs was reading
Sherlock Holmes proofs before printing
in the recently-defunct “Strand Maga-
zine.” With his wife (formerly Dorothy
Darlot, daughter of a well-known Wes-
tralian pastoralist), he arrived in Perth
last month on what was to have been the
first phase of an extended holiday in
Australia.
• •
After three years as R.S.L. president
in Westralia, Fred Chaney is handing over
the gavel. The first airman and first War
II serviceman to hold the office, Chaney
was a flight-lieutenant whose service com-
menced in 1941, wafted him over New
Guinea, and into operations over Borneo,
which brought him the A.F.C. Outside
League affairs he is deputy-head of Vic-
toria Park, one of Westralia’s largest
State schools.
• •
“Uramao”: Apart from members of
the Royal family, Bailiffs Grand Cross
of the Order of St. John are restricted to
10. One of these, recently appointed,
is Lieut.-Colonel Sir James Elliott, of
Wellington (N.Z.). This makes the second
Enzedder admitted, the other being Sir
R. Heaton Rhodes, created a Bailiff eight
years ago. Sir James has been medically
prominent in New Zealand for years;
one of his enthusiasms was the St. John
Ambulance Association in Wellington.
He attended the Empire conference of the
Order in London in 1949. Was a medico
in Kruger’s war, and in a hospital-ship
in the Kaiser’s.
Also appointed Bailiff Grand Cross —
the first Australian —Sydney surgeon Sir
Hugh Poate, for his conspicuous services
to the Order. He is Chancellor of the
Priory in Australia.
• •
Old Digger, organist and choirmaster,
Owen Egan lays down the baton after 26
years as superintendent of music in the
Westralian Education Department, follow-
ing 23 years of ordinary teaching. He
did much to raise the standards of choral
work and musical appreciation through-
out Westralian schools and churches.
His war-service was with the Ist A.I.F.
in France.
• •
If you hail a cab at Adelaide’s railway-
rank it’s likely enough that tall, easy-
going “Steve” will do the honors; and
you’ll be in luck. Steve’s a cabby par
excellence. He’ll drawl a casual query
about directions in excellent English
with the slightest of accents, and with his
unobtrusive personality make you feel
you own the diesel Mercedes. Born in
Hungary 38 years ago, Istvan Adorjan
won a four-year scholarship to the Hun-
garian National Academy of Music in
Debrecen at 21. When he graduated, the
National Theatre Opera took a fancy to
HUNGARIAN BASS
his fine bass voice and engaged him for
two years. Followed opera, concerts and
broadcasts. Migrating to South Australia
in 1949, Istvan dragged on any jobs
going—handyman, gardener, spotwelder
—while keeping his voice in trim at
Adelaide’s Conservatorium. An A.B.C.
audition a couple of years ago led to an
immediate series of broadcasts, which still
continue. His favorite spot in opera is
Mephistopheles. And several nights a
week he slides out of his cab to become
Istvan Adorjan, a teacher of singing.
“Jemac”: Remembering a brew called
Younger’s Beer dispensed in Service canteens
from Malta to Haifa and Bombay back in
pre-war days, there was some feeling of kin
with Kenneth Younger when —somewhat
freckled, somewhat sandy-haired—he dropped
into The Bulletin in between preparing his
Dyason lectures for the Australian Institute of
International Affairs. The Oxford-spoken,
easily-fiuent visitor corroborated the kinship,
though pointing out that his father’s (Lord
Younger’s) brew comes from Scotland, and
has no connection with that other, more-
widely-dispensed English fluid of the name.
Beer aside, the younger Younger is member
for Grimsby in the Commons, and had been
Attlee’s Minister of State, a sort of Deputy
Foreign Minister. Earlier in War II attached
to Intelligence in England, he shifted to
Algiers with the landing in North Africa, was
on Monty’s staff for the Normandy planning,
went in shortly after D-Day, went on through
France, Belgium and Holland, and ended-up
on the Elbe. A week before the scrapping
ended he was recalled home for another stoush
—the 1945 election which swept Attlee into
LONDON LABORITE
power, and Younger in for Grimsby, which seat
he still holds.
In 1946 he was with the delegation which
chose the site for U.N. headquarters at Lake
Success. The Assembly was then sited in the
Sperry factory on Long Island —it seemed there
would be little use for bomb-sights and such.
Back over there in 1950 (leading the U.K.
delegation to the General Assembly) Younger
noted the ironic situation of Sperry (snowed-
under with war-orders) trying to hustle the
peace-people out and into their then almost-
completed glasshouse.
In Australia he is lecturing on British foreign
policy since the war, with topical emphasis on
affairs in South-East Asia. He was born at
Dunfermline, county Fife, birthplace ot
Andrew Carnegie.
• •
Sir Frank Beaurepaire, former Olympic
swimmer and one of the delegation which
got Melbourne the Games, has a simple
solution for the liquor problem. Finding
that Finland t had tighter laws than ours,
but that there tourists could drink till two
in the morning, he asks: “Who are we
to prevent people drinking when and how
they are used to?”
• o
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 57, Charles Harriot Henning,
with the 10th Light Horse in War I, with the
2/28th Battalion in the Middle East and
Tobruk in War 11. One of three representa-
tives of the South-West Province in the
Westralian Legislative Council, and chairman
of the Drakeford Road Board, between wars
he went as a major of the Australian contingent
to the coronation of George VI.
At 83, in Melbourne, Sir James Macfarlan,
one-time senior puisne judge of the Supreme
Court. Graduating from Melbourne Univer-
sity, he became one of the strongest cross-
examiners in private practice. Appointed Law
Professor at the University of Tasmania in
1898, he subsequently returned to Melbourne,
became K.C. in 1918 and judge in 1922. His
quickness of perception speeded the tempo of
court proceedings; he established a local record
when he disposed of 173 divorce-cases in one
month.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 51. the Rev. John
Dieter, R.C. Vicar Apostolic of Western Samoa.
A native of Germany, he arrived in Samoa just
before the outbreak of World War 11, put
immense energy into his work among the
Samoans, and became an orator in their own
tongue.
In Perth, at 63, Gavin Hugh Findlay, Old
Digger and former head of the C. 1.8. in Perth
and Fremantle. He joined the Westralian
Police Force in 1912, was overseas ' with the
Bth Battery, A.1.F., and was back on the beat
in 1919, transferring soon afterwards to the
C. 1.8. Since his retirement three years ago he
had been an usher of the Supreme Court and
State Arbitration Court.
In Melbourne, at 87, William Leech, one of
the south city’s first holders of a car-driving
licence. Founding the firm of W. Leech in
1889, he carried iron and steel before the
development of B.H.P. His father, Captain
Leech, was shot by bushrangers while
commanding a gold-escort.
At Busselton (W.A.), at 98, Edward Pettit,
retired master-mariner and island-trader, who
had lived at Busselton as a boy, and there again
since he came ashore, after the wreck of the
vessel Agnes, which he had owned in partner-
ship with Captain Douglas, of Albany. At
Busselton, until he retired finally at 76, he used
his boat to take the port doctor out to ships
arriving direct from overseas,


* m
Is* T 'T'H-lS
/%WMT4/M AIK,
AWLiKtiy M^frlQOg'?
1 N&VfK
W\US£P 6 &08&
T+-lAT IT ■
so
V
DOWNS AND UPS


ABORIGINALITIES
VAICK came back from milking and
reported that a mob of white-
cockatoos were tearing into the carcass
of a sheep we’d skinned overnight.
Mick’s a new hand, and wouldn’t be
expected to know, of course. But it just
gives an idea of the sort of frosts we’ve
been getting. It’s sometimes 9 a.m. before
the crows resume their usual clobber.—
“Hist.”
* * * *
“N.D.P.”: This might rock the
theorists who hold strong views about
hemispheric effect on wind-circulation in
cyclones and direction of water whirling
down plugholes, but during the recent
“wet” in Mareeba (Q.) I noticed that the
direction of flow in the vortices above
each of two adjacent pipes carrying water
under a creek-crossing was clockwise and
anti-clockwise respectively.
# * * *
“Salmon Gums”: If “Naturala” (B.
22/6/’55) had stated simply that lost
humans follow a circle because one leg
is shorter than the other I’d have been
happy to leave him with that rather naive
belief. But when he claims that “science”
has “proved” it I must protest. There
was once a theory that the circle-wander
was due to one leg being “stronger” than
the other, but that’s mostly all rot, too.
Why shouldn’t a man walk in a circle ?
He s walking on a globe, beneath a circu-
lar dome, surrounded by a circular hori-
zon. Everything around him, from the
tree-trunks to the holes made by burrow-
ing animals, is round, and so is the limit
of his vision. Nature abhors straight lines
and favors curves, yet we’re apt to assume
that, without any guide or knowledge of
where he s going, a man would naturally
walk in a straight line. If he did, then
you could start examining his legs or his
general make-up. He’d be unnatural.
* • * *
“Recla”: The cows were stringing
obediently up from the lucerne-patch to
cries of “ ’Way back there, Spider!” and
“Git along there, Brownie!” Leaning
against the gate-post and delivering the
orders was our dairyman neighbor, but of
Spider and Brownie there was no sign.
“Wot, no dogs?” I asked. “Don’t know
where those two hairy toads have got
to,” said Tom, “so I’m putting over a
bit of bluff.” Certainly it worked.
* * * *
“Bass”: An English magistrate was set
a ticklish problem when some bakers
were lately charged with selling under-
weight loaves and the defence was that
the bread contained caraway-seeds and
therefore was a fruit-bread, which was
exempt. It was sold as Continental Fruit
Bread, and a witness from the natural-
history section of the British Museum
said that the caraway was half of the fruit
and he wouldn’t describe it as a seed. At
the same time he admitted that if he
ordered fruit-cake he wouldn’t expect to
get one with caraway-seeds in it. The
magistrate seemed to think he wouldn’t
either, but he dismissed the case.
* * * *
“Macnell”: Heard “B. A. Ker’s” pipe
for help (B. 29/6/’55). Was up the mast-
truck at the time, hence the delay in
answering. The ex-matelot (not “mat-
low”) truck-driver is nearest —the “truck”
is the very top of the actual mast, which
is usually covered with a small circular
piece of wood. Through this is sometimes
—as in a smaller ship—rove a halliard.
But the truck is not the highest part
of the ship—above it, in a battleship or
cruiser, is usually fitted a signal flashing-
lamp, then, supreme above that, the
lightning-conductor. The main-truck in
a battleship can be 170 ft. above water-
line. The lowest part of the mast is the
heel, snugged-in well down; under it,
before it is stepped, is placed a sovereign.
And, as we’re all technical, next time I’d
be gratified if I were not “piped for.” Was
commissioned from the lowerdeck, so
would appreciate being “sent for.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: North of Clare (S.A.) one
wild, wet night, we got on to a patch of
open flat and, as far as they could pene-
trate the rain, the headlights showed
tracks running in all directions. There
was no formed road and about an inch
of muddy water lay over the visible land-
scape. We stopped the car, got out in
the wet, and slopped about looking for
some sort of a lead. Then a faint light
appeared in the gloom, came on through
the rain, and turned out to be a hurricane-
lamp swinging under a sulky. We hailed
the driver. “Is this the right road to
Terowie?” “Terowie! Terowiel B
and X- Terowie. That’s where some
pinched me dawg!” And he
whipped his horse and vanished into the
saturated night.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: There were few
doctors in W.A. in the early days, and
“Better get your curlers off. We go on parade in half-an-hour."
the settlers who scattered over a wide
stretch of country had to find their own
cures for the more common ailments.
Stomach-disorders were prevalent, and in
1841 Archdeacon Walliston noted that
the standard remedy was a couple of
small pills made from the gum of the
redgum-tree (this tree takes its name
from the red gum it exudes, and not from
the wood, which is a dirty grey). There’s
nothing in the gum to suggest medicinal
properties to the layman, and it isn’t the
sort of thing anyone would nibble from
choice, so it’s almost certain the settlers
got the knowledge from the natives. And
it’s certainly an effective cure. The old
bloke who put me wise to it prescribed
the dose —one pill, or at most two, about
the size of a pea. I was surprised at the
effect of the smaller amount, and won-
dered what would happen if I took a
lump the size of a marble. “Boy,” he said
solemnly, “you’d be hermetically sealed.”
* * * *
“Kelvin”: The joke - block (B.
29/ 6/ ’55) in which the cannibalistic
“If I Was your boss, Blue, I wouldn't even pay you APPEARANCE -money.”
paterfamilias warned his young hopeful
that, until he had eaten his missionary,
he could not have any ballet-dancer was
culinarily astray. A plump clergyman,
especially one lately arrived in the
mission-field, should provide far juicier
steaks than the sinewy hindquarters of a
ballet-dancer, be she ever so lithely built
and beautifully featured. Old Maino,
last of the mamooses of the tribe of Tutu
on Yam Island in Torres Straits, coyly
admitted to me that he had sampled
long-pork as a very small boy. The front
parts of the body, he said, were scarcely
worth the trouble of preparing, since the
flesh was, by exposure to the elements,
invariably stringy, while the rear, par-
ticularly the hindquarters, was “proper
No. 1,” though the absolute titbit was
the tongue, which was always reserved
for the tribal-chief of the victors.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: My guess is that “short-
legged, long-eared pooches such as spaniel
and dachshund” (B. 29/6/’55) won’t
appreciate that plastic bowl designed to
keep their lugs out of their tucker. Dogs
dislike feeding from deep containers;
unless persuaded otherwise by training,
they’ll deliberately upset the works rather
than suffer their vision to be obscured.
Stray mongs overturn garbage-cans and
drag out the contents with their paws, but
seldom, if ever, poke their heads in.
* * # *
“Burna”: The Greeks believed Mercury
tried to steal the thunderbolts forged
underground by Vulcan and his Cyclops.
Certainly observant, those ancients, in
associating lightning with underground
caves. Scientists, seeking an explanation
since a man was struck 200 ft. below,
have propounded a theory: radioactive
matter is leached out of rocks by seepage,
and becomes concentrated on the walls of
underground caves. As caves “breathe”
in sympathy with variations in atmos-
pheric pressure, a current of this ionised
air could be led by convection towards
deep cumulus clouds. The lightning-
discharge would then choose the easy
path to the mouth of the cave. It seems
another old mystery is solved.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d just come off the
bridge into Echuca (Vic.) when we
spotted eight or nine blokes having an
all-in brawl down on the river-bank. We
stopped to watch as fists, boots, cuss-
words and hair flew. Some others joined
us. One of them, a sturdy young woman
with a baby in arms, suddenly cried,
“That’s my Jack down there! ” She swung
the baby into Mat’s arms, said, “Hold
her,” and raced down the slope. She
went straight into the storm, and came
out of it holding a man by one arm and
cuffing him soundly. All his attempts to
break free were vain. The fight died down.
She lugged her Jack up the bank,
recovered her baby from the dumbfounded
Mat, said, “Thanks, mister,” and, with
baby and man, headed for Moama.
“Wimmen!” said Mat, disgustedly.
“Couldn’t even let the bloke have his
brawl in peace.”
* * * *
A SUMMARY of the career of Tom
Petrie (B. 29/6/’55) took my thoughts
back 30 or more years ago, to when I
went bush with Walter Petrie, son of the
old-time mate of aborigines.
Like Tom himself, Walter was a natural
bushman, and he was in his element as
a field-worker for Queensland’s Depart-
ment of Forestry. But what I remember
Birds are not usually deceived by imi-
tations of either the calls of their own or
other species—if they were they would
get into a woeful tangle by listening to
lyrebirds and certain other master-
mimics—but when Walter Petrie went
into action he always got results,
chiefly about him, apart from his sturdy
figure and general good-nature, was his
extraordinary ability as a bird-mimic.
Once, as a flock of honey-parrots flew
blithely overhead, he imitated the cry of
a goshawk, upon which every one of those
parrots dived headlong for the nearest
trees.
Another time, when we were camped-
out on Fraser Island, a koel-
cuckoo roused us at dawn with his
“cooee” cry, and, apparently as a matter
of courtesy, Walter acknowledged the
call. Then, warming to his work, he con-
tinued “yarning” to that misguided cuckoo
while we were dressing, breakfasting and
packing, and, with an occasional “cooee,
he caused the lovelorn bird to follow us
along the track for at least a mile.
PHIL ANTHUS.
CHUPATTY CHANT
For as long as I can remember, twenty years
or more,
My mother’s made chupatties sitting cross-
legged on the floor.
With her sari falling round her in gleaming
folds of white,
She would mix the dough and knead it, her
fingers quick and light,
And the bangles danced and jingled like bells
upon her arms
As she shaped the flat chupatties between her
clapping palms.
She was there throughout our schooldays
when, holding back our tears,
Like hunted forest creatures we fled the white
child’s jeers.
We’d creep in and sit beside her, in silence, for
we found.
There was comfort in her nearness and that
homely clapping sound.
For though the heat was wearisome and though
the day wore long,
My mother made chupatties and sang a Hindi
song.
I well recall the morning that the shed went up
in flame.
My father ran down shouting and calling
Allah’s name.
Rashida grabbed a sugarbag and Mena took
the pail,
And little Lal-Muhummad came following on
our trail.
The baby, big-eyed' Jamila, crawled crowing
to the door —
And Ama made chupatties sitting calmly, on
the floor.
There came a time when rabbits tunnelled
through our land’s good heart,
So round the boundary-fences we took the
poison-cart.
My father puffed and sweated beneath his
broad hat’s shade
While we tagged along behind him, more a
hindrance than an aid,
All through that steaming summer and when
winter cold winds fanned —
And Ama made chupatties to warm the heart
and hand.
Now, living in the city, we may sit and take
our ease;
There are no droughts to worry us, no dust and
flies to tease.
For those nagging inland problems we do not
give a rap,
There’s water for the asking had by turning on
a tap;
And we have a modern kitchen with gadgets
by the score—
But Ama makes chupatties sitting cross-legged
on the floor.
N.S.W.
MENA KASHMIRI ABOULLAH.


Research in Industry
No. 15 in a Series
Crystal Gazing
THE MODERN WAY of making salt by boiling down brine
in closed vessels heated by steam and under vacuum yields fine,
free-running salt crystals which consist of tiny cubes excellent for
the table but unsatisfactory for many important industrial uses.
To produce other forms of crystal it has hitherto been necessary to
simmer the brine in open pans a process that has remained
almost unchanged since the Roman soldiers introduced it to England,
two thousand years ago. This old method is wasteful alike in fuel
and labour, and 1.C.1. research workers have long been seeking
something better. Now they have succeeded in producing salt
crystals of an entirely new kind.
Known as Dendritic salt, these crystals have the advantages o£
‘open-pan’ salt, yet they can be made by the modem, efficient,
vacuum process which cuts the fuel bill by two-thirds. They are
therefore considerably cheaper. Dendritic salt is bulky and absor-
bent. It does not harden when stored, and does not settle to the
bottom or rise to the top when mixed with powdered foods. It can
be used in humid tropic countries without trouble. For some pur-
poses curing sausage skins, for example it is even better than
open-pan salt. The production of Dendritic salt is but one of the
fruits of I.C.L’s £8 million-a-year research and development programme.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
/
ICI
■ 1.738.1398 i
n y • I'm'
'A
V HI ML^il
m
-.r
Tooth's Lager
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY [TOOIH & CO. LIMITED
KB- 187-tfl
asyw
/ffeft/
TVURING June three bitches whelped
on this Swan Hill (Vic.) property.
First a Border Collie bitch, four pups, all
males; next a terrier, four pups, all
males, then another Border Collie, six
pups, all males. This surely must be
close to a record. —“C.R.M.”
* * * *
“Spinifex”: Reported that the first
kangaroo in the Baltimore Zoo (U.S.A.)
to bear a joey spurned her offspring be-
cause it limped and couldn’t get back into
the pouch unassisted. Of course, if Mum
really wanted the young fellow back in
the old home she’d soon toss him in,
limp or no limp; but she probably
barred Joseph because there’s a new
tenant occupying the premises.' There’s
nothing strange about that; but what
puzzles me is how does a kangaroo
progress when it limps?
# » * *
“Archaen”: In references to the abori-
ginal “firestick” (B. 22/6/’55) the plural
should be used. Except with such a wood
as Queensland gidja, which smoulders
away without bursting into flame, and
the dried roots of some gumtrees, which
do the same, it is hard to keep a single
bit of wood burning, no matter how much
you wave it or blow on it. But two sticks,
burning side by side, are easy to keep
alight. The abos used to grip them with
the fingers, keeping the butts apart and
the burning tips in contact. As they
walked, they swung the arm to and fro
gently and the sticks kept on fire. There
was another advantage: in very cold
weather —and it can be freezing in Central
Australia from May to August—it helped
keep the carrier warm.
* * * *
“J.E.M.”: Our new pony sports a bob-
tail hair-do, too. A poddy-calf chewed
it.
“Gravelsnatcher”: No genuine 4 bush-
man I’ve come across preferred tea made
in a china pot from a kettle of boiling
rainwater” (“Mingari,” B. 22/6/’55). His
real preference—tea made per billy has a
flavor you can’t capture in a china pot.
It isn’t the flavor of gumleaves; rather,
it’s the aroma of gum-smoke, but there s
something else, too —the real tea-flavor
which you don’t get out of teapots be-
cause you can’t brew tea by pouring boil-
ing-water over the leaves. A bushman
stands over the billy with a fistful of tea,
waits till the water is boiling furiously,
then throws the tea in. The boiling ceases
for a second, then it’s off again, with the
leaves churning through it. A minute or
so of that, and the billy is lifted off and
“There's another one got out .”
left to stand. That way you get all that’s
in the leaves.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Watch a mob of ants at
work, and they live up to the old saws
that glorified their capacity for co-opera-
tion and hard graft, but an individual
without boss or pacemakers often acts
like an aimless dill. Watched a green-
head wandering round like a born-loafer
battling to put in time. Finally his aim-
less fossicking produced a dead moth,
which he took in tow. A brisk wind was
blowing, so what must this joker do but
drag the corpse along with wings erect,
the resultant wind-resistance making his
job harder. After zigzagging around for
a while, he dragged the trophy into a
cleft formed by two dandelion-leaves,
where it stuck fast. For about 10 minutes
he tugged in a spasmodic sort of way
without results, and then left it there.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: The difference between
lobster and crayfish isn’t that the former
has claws and the latter none, but simply
that the true crayfish lives only in fresh-
water. Some lobsters also live in fresh-
water —we have a prickly one, now be-
coming rare, in the Murray—but all our
marine “crayfish” are really clawless
rock-lobsters. The world’s biggest cray-
fish, attaining a length of 18in., inhabits
rivers in northern Tasmania. The best-
eating crayfish is the marron of some
rivers in the south-west of W.A.; it goes
up to nearly a pound weight. Why it
hasn’t been introduced to the rivers of
eastern Australia is a mystery. Unlike
its much smaller cousin, the yabbie, it
wouldn’t damage levee-banks by burrow-
ing ; it doesn’t excavate holes to camp
in, but makes its home in submerged
hollow-logs and under stones. Anyone
who has eaten marrons will vouch for
their being better in flavor than anything
else in the way of crabs, crays, lobsters,
shrimps or prawns.
* * * *
“Spin”: They’re trapping rabbits on
the Nullarbor, and many who look on
that area as a barren desert are wonder-
ing who’s off the beam. You can het the
rabbit-trappers aren’t, and if you figure it
out you’ll see it’s only logical that
occasionally Bunny should be quite
plentiful out there. After all, he’s been
there for over 60 years, which has given
him plenty of time to become acclima-
tised. In fact, he’s got to the stage where
he can outlast many of the desert natives.
Long after the drought has left other
skeletons bleaching on the plain, Bunny,
emaciated but still alive, is groping along
the dongas for some of the native plants
with long tap-roots. Other animals may
have eaten them to the ground, but the
rabbit goes further. He eats the plant
down below the crown, then sucks the
sap which the roots are still drawing
from the film moisture scores of feet
below. Although his numbers may be
decreased, enough of him lives on to
better times ; and after a good season, like
the present one, the Nullarbor carries
enough feed to keep stock going for up
to 18 months. That’s plenty of time for
the rabbit to build up a big population
and make trapping worth while.
* * * *
IN California about 50 years ago the
Santa Fe Railroad Co. acquired
part of an old Spanish land-grant and
planted it with eucalypts. The company
planned to save money by growing its
own railroad-“ties” (sleepers to us). The
eucalypts grew all right, a forest un-
equalled in the Western Hemisphere, but
the company cut no sleepers from it.
An expert denounced its eucalypts as the
world’s worst wood for “ties.”
Maybe the expert was right about the
variety grown there; but when malaria
so weakened workers on the Madeira-
Mamord railroad in the Amazon Valley
that they could no longer cut “ties” from
the hard local timbers, the management
imported Australian eucalyptus sleepers.
And these they continued to import until
health-measures got the malaria under
control, and “ties” could be cut locally
again.
However, the planting was not a dead
loss. The eucalyptus forest, subdivided
and sold as real-estate, paid very good
dividends. Douglas Fairbanks estab-
lished his home, Pickfair, there.
Writer Jack London also planted a
eucalyptus forest. The vines in the old
Californian vineyards he bought were
exhausted; also, he felt sure Prohibition
was coming. So he had 700 acres cleared
of vines and fertilised, and then spent
46,862 dollars on planting 140,000
eucalypts.
Right about Prohibition, he was quite
wrong about the future profits from
“Circassian walnut,” a hardwood in
vogue for building and decoration, which
he planned to cut from his eucalypts.
While the trees were growing “Circassian
walnut” went out of fashion and left
Jack London with 140,000 trees useless
for anything, but firewood.
Y MAR.
THE KNOCKER
The Knocker’s the road to Sunnyside,
The Mitta to Sunnyside track,
Out of the river and up the hill . . .
And it’s certain to knock you back.
There’s gold at the top of the climb, of course,
Good gold if you make your strike,
But you’ve got to get over the Knocker first
And it’s never an easy hike!
You’ll find as you climb, each bit of the way,
Smashed wagons and busted carts
And the bones of nags and a steer or two . . .
And maybe the broken hearts
Of men who went over the Knocker track
To get at the Wombat gold
And went without luck or whatever it is
That makes the done man hold
To the last mad hope for the last hard mile
That gets him to Sunnyside
To scrabble the hills for the pay-dirt’s gleam . . .
And know himself fool to have tried.
The Knocker’s the track to the gold-rush town
And the Knocker’s a duffer’s way—
But it leads from the valley into the sky . . .
And it knocks a man a day.
N.S.W.
A. McD. CAMERON.


COX BROS
IN FIVE
STATES
ECONOMIC
STORES
PERTH
SNOWS
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
COLAC
ADELAIDE
DEPARTMENTAL STORE RETAILERS OF CLOTHING, TEXTILES, FURNITURE
AND FOOD
COX BROTHERS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
[(lncorporated under the Companies Act 1915 of the State of Victoria on 24th January, 1928)]
HEAD OFFICEt 75 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
.e
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £2,000,000
REGISTERED
MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
1
3
o
2
CURRENCY .. 9-10 YEARS
ISSUE NOW OPEN
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS OBTAINABLE FROMt
MEMBERS OF ALL STOCK EXCHANGES
All Branches at
ifHE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
and
iHE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
TRUSTEE FOR THE DEBENTURE STOCKHOLDERS
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne 31 Hunter Street, Sydney
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLYj This is not a Prospectus or an advertisement of a Prospectus end
does not constitute an invitation to the public to subscribe for the Debenture Stock mentioned herein.
ACCOUNTANT
Young qualified accountant re-
quired by mining company
operating in Northern Territory.
Attractive salary. Good oppor-
tunity for advancement. Modern
mining camp and amenities.
Apply Secretary,
North Australian Uranium
Corporation, Sydney.
FINANCIAL DIARY
CJOON the early birds among
the public companies of Aus-
tralia will be putting forth their
1954-55 balance - sheets for
shareholders’ inspection. There
are nearly always 'one or two
before the end of July. But
already some final dividends
have been announced. Among
these is that of Australian Con-
solidated Industries, which has
added a bonus of 2\ p.c. to the
two half-yearly distributions of
5 p.c. each. The market appeared
to anticipate the new rate some
weeks in advance. There was, in
fact, a drop from 545. to 525. 6d.
after the announcement. The
final 1\ p.c. is payable on Sep-
tember 30.
Generally, the strength of the
industrial sharemarket was sus-
tained in all capitals in spite of
Sydney strikes and the patchy
national balance-sheet as revealed
in the wool-cheque, the trade-
balance, production statistics and
the uncomfortable banking
figures.
Outstanding among stocks to
advance was Electrolytic Zinc,
which rose from 465. 6d. on
July 6 to 535. 6d. on July
11, then slipped back to
50s. Following the bonus-issue
announcement, Kandos and
Australian Cement scrip retained
the market ground they had
made, and McPherson’s shares
kept around 525., to which they
rose following the new-issue an-
nouncement a few weeks earlier.
The retailer group remained in
a state of pleasurable anticipa-
tion, speculation extending even
to the pref. shares in Farmer and
Co. (Sydney); these 6 p.c. and
7 p.c. issues ranging between
355. and 40s. The ords., which
rose to over £5 10s. following
talks of capital-reconstruction,
came back to £5.
Henry Jones, to which atten-
tion was drawn in these pages
when they were at 475. 6d., have
moved up to 575. 3d. Shares (par
10s.) in Minster, Ltd., holding-
co. for Westminster Carpets,
Ltd., have gone on strongly to
30s. Plant is to be duplicated
without asking shareholders for
any further capital, and other
moves are in the wind.
The 6i p.c. registered un-
secured notes offered by A. G.
Healing, Ltd., are an indication
of the attractive interest-rates
being offered for comparatively
short-term money these days.
The notes have a currency of
five years. They have no specific
security, nor do they have any
floating charge over the assets
of the company ; they rank with
the unsecured creditors, ahead
of the preference and ordinary
shareholders. As at June 30,
1954, each £lOO of unsecured
liabilities had a cover of £l9l
of tangible assets. Profit of the
Healing organisation, before tax,
for 1953-54 was equal to over
13 times the interest charge on
the notes. The interest will be
paid half-yearly. Healing’s makes
and sells bicycles, radios, wash-
ing-machines, shock-absorbers,
etc. The new funds are needed
mainly to look after the hire-
purchase end of the business, and
the issue has been underwritten
by Melbourne brokers Vinton
Smith, Dean and Dougall.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd., is also
offering 6£ p.c. registered deben-
ture-stock, currency 9-10 years.
On July 11 directors of the
Electric Light and Power Cor-
poration, Sydney, the assets of
which have been taken over by
the State electricity authority,
said that the proceedings to
determine the corporation’s
value as a going concern had
concluded on June 30. They
were not able to forecast the
basis upon which the court will
fix and determine the value. The
resumption occurred more than
five years ago. The £1 shares,
both ord. and pref., have sold
recently at 555. 6d.
Money conditions in Australia
have not been tighter for many
years. Life-assurance offices are
turning down most attractive
lending propositions, and trade-
debtors are becoming more and
more longwinded. It was particu-
larly hard to get money in
around June 30. Banking figures
for May showed a continued
strain in the deposits-advances
situation —deposits falling, ad-
vances rising. On June 22 the
special accounts of the trading-
banks lodged with the central
bank totalled only £2BO million,
compared with £353 million a
year earlier and an average of
£469 million for the financial
year 1951-52. (The average for
1952-53 had dropped to £213
million.)
Apparently because, partly, of
the difficulty experienced by
retailers in financing stocks, in
April output from many types
of factories showed a distinct
falling-off.
The National Council of Wool-
selling Brokers has given the
official figure for 1954-55 season
wool-sales at £352,691,825, which
is £3B million under the total
for the preceding year. The
number of bales sold was a
record at 3,955,476, but the
average price was 71.21 a pound,
compared with 81.95 d. in the
preceding period.
Omati No. 2 (Papua)
From L. Owen: The
announcement by the boards
of Australasian Petroleum and
Island Exploration that the
drilling of Omati No. 2 well
has been stopped at 10,880 ft.
has come as a surprise and as
a disappointment.
The news, in fact, was broken
at a most inopportune time for
the Australian member of the
operating group of companies,
Oil Search, Ltd., which is
attempting to raise additional
capital to maintain its 10 p.c.
interest in the venture.
But it is worth while consider-
ing whether the decision to
abandon Omati No. 2 is as ill-
advised as it would appear super-
ficially. The reason given by
the directors for closing-down
the well is that “in the opinion
of their technical advisers there
is no prospect of encountering
commercial gas or oil within
reach of the drill in this hole.”
That is a very bold statement
in view of the fact that lateral
variation of strata in Papua-
even over a distance of only two
miles, and even within a struc-
ture with the characteristics of
the Western Papuan Basin—is
substantial. Past statements by
the companies involved, how-
ever, have invariably been
candid and factual; sometimes
they appear to have been almost
tactless and unnecessarily
abrupt.
In the present case, taking the
worst aspect first, Omati well
No. 2 represents an enormous
expenditure to provide access
and in preparation of the
drilling-site. On top of that are
rig-erection and the cost of
drilling to nearly 11,000 ft. The
remaining 3000 ft. to be sunk to
reach the wet - gas - bearing
horizon of the No. 1 well would
thus represent only a small per
centage of the total cost. Why
not, then, have taken a chance on
possible non-commercial pro-
duction, particularly as the diffi-
culties ahead, in each section of
the drilling, could be anticipated
and preparations made to meet
them in view of the data and
experience gained during the
drilling of Omati No. 1?
There must exist, therefore,
important data known only fo
the inner council of experts to
enable them to take, so defin-
itely, the drastic step now
announced. What may be
regarded as one reason for the
abandonment of Omati No. 2
was forecast in the Oil Search,
Ltd., report of December 9,
1954, where it was stated that:
Companies’ technical advisers,
appreciating that the deepening ot
Omati No. 1 into the gas zone at
13,743 ft. would be an extremely
difficult operation, decided to pro-
ceed immediately with a second
drilling-site, two miles to the West
of No. 1, in order that there would
be no delay in obtaining informa-
tion of the zone of interest in the
event of failure to reach it again
in the first weU.
My own opinion, for what it
is worth, is that, additionally,
the cumulative information
(mostly unpublished), obtained
from geological and geo-
physical surveys and from drill-
ing, points to brighter hopes
west of the Omati meridian, and
that it has been decided, there-
fore, to conserve all available
funds for the search for petro-
leum in the area lying between
Omati and the Netherlands New
Guinea border.
Hire-purchase Growth
Total outstanding hire-
purchase balances at March 31
were £l7O million, against £l6O
million three months earlier, and
£ll9 million in March, 1954.
With a tightening of credit
facilities since September, 1954,
of increase has slowed
down, and it is unlikely that the
amount of business outstanding
will double over the next two
years, though that is precisely
what happened between March,
1953, and March, 1955. This
slowing-down is something that
needs to be considered where
finance companies have recently
doubled or trebled their own
capital, on which dividends
must be earned.
The theoretical rate of interest
earned by hire-purchase com-
panies ranges from about 11 p.c.
p.a. on first-class securities
(such as new motor-cars) up to
around 20 p.c. or more on
secondhand cars and the like.
They also usually get insurance-
commissions on the same trans-
actions. But in order to earn
the optimum rates they need to
get prompt repayment of instal-
ments and to re-lend these funds
immediately.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
69 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
HE HAS
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
| No Pads —
I No Springs
The NEO-BARRERB
acts like a hand
•when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. Sr), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
A
ARTS
Circular Chartt for all typaa
of Recording liutrumanb
hr Mf dui of M»cMoor?
•r Equipment
WETER CHARTS • Sport**?
JAoIIStfO’SILLJVAN^IL
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Missing Friend
O’BRIEN, James William or William
James, deceased. Any persons knowing
the whereabouts of brothers and sisters
(or their issue) of the deceased, namely,
DANIEL TIMOTHY, JULIA ANNIE,
THOMAS PATRICK, KATHLEE, JOHN
JOSEPH, LEO KYRA and VINCENT
STANISLAUS, please inform the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Room 204, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
At the point of your pen •. •
u
There's a wonderful sense of convenience
in a Bank of New South Wales cheque
book. Payment of bills is so easy and
safe, for a cheque in the post saves
much time and trouble. Once cashed,
your cheque is proof of payment, and
cheque butts and bank statement pro-
vide a convenient and accurate record
of expenditure. Finally, you won't need
to carry large sums of money when you
have a cheque book in your pocket.
Why not put one there today?
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INOOBPOBATHD IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)'
A5512C
Bf
ANNOUNCES
it will shortly file and issue a Prospectus
for an issue at par of
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
Interest Currency
41% . . . 12 months
4% .. . .9 months
Interest Currency
3f% ... 6 months
31% ... 3 months
LONG TERM
Interest Currency
61% ... 10 & 15 years
6% ... 4to 9 years
Interest Currency
5i% 3 years
5% 2 years
per annum, interest payable quarterly,
free of exchange
Requests for a Prospectus, when available, may be made to
all members of Stock Exchanges
and all Branches of
Industrial Acceptance Corporation ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES VICTORIA QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA WESTERN AUSTRALIA TASMANIA
Londan Airmail
From Herbert Holman
"At length they all to merry
London came,
To merry London, my most
kindly nurse,
....Where now the studious
lawyers have their bowers
—Edmund Spenser.
"EXCEPT for fairly heavy
•*-' traffic outside (it lies on a
short-cut between Hyde Park
Corner and Westminster Bridge)
the conference-hall which is now
temporarily given over to legal
exchanges of a decidedly out-of-
court flavor lies in one of the
pleasantest corners of West-
minster. Those delegates who
are staying in Mayfair can walk
to their deliberations across St.
James’s Park, and others no
doubt will enjoy a whiff of
flower-scented freshness before
10.30, between 12.30 and 2.30,
and after 4.30.
But if the conference hours
are not long, the programme is
a full one. The executive com-
mittee have cut-down plenary
sessions to two, apart from the
opening and closing sessions.
They are devoted to professional
ethics and the fusion, from the
point of view of service to the
public, of the two legal branches.
The outcome of two of the
11 committee sessions will be
of much interest to British
professional men, for it is
noticed that the subject is the
vexed (and vexing) one of
retirement-benefits. It was a
group of barristers who first
drew attention to the taxation
anomaly between the self-
employed and the pensionable.
And now, with the Millard
Tucker Report a full twelve-
month old, the self-employed
consider their pleas for justice
have some urgency.
This is the first Common-
wealth and Empire Law Confer-
ence. The delegates will number
some 750 (including 140 Aus-
tralians). Wives and guests
make a further 550.
There are many official recep-
tions (no charge), a ball at the
Hurlingham Club (£2 10s.), a
conference banquet at Guildhall
(£4 10s.) and a score of coach
excursions, ranging from an
afternoon round the West End
to a weeds: in the English Lakes.
All the latter are oversubscribed.
A congenial touch to the pro-
vincial trips is the practical
welcome extended by local law
societies. At Stratford-upon-
Avon, for instance, the War-
wickshire and Birmingham Law
Societies are to provide lunch in
the Memorial Theatre, and,
after the matinee, the Mayor
and Corporation will entertain
the visitors at tea in the Mayor’s
Parlor.
Although Covent Garden and
the Old Vic are closed, there is
plenty of interest in and around
London for those who are
unable to get coach-reservations.
They may see ballet at the
Festival Hall, go to the Proms,
the International Horse Show,
Goodwood or Canterbury dur-
ing its Cricket Week. Some will
be privileged to attend the Royal
garden - party at Buckingham
Palace ; but they will be few. So
many more Australians than
usual are in London that the
High Commissioner has had to
prepare them for disappoint-
ment. It seems that not more
than one in 10 of those who
apply can hope for an invitation.
Monopolies
The subtle and darkly-kept
devices which groups of manu-
facturers adopt in order to
protect their interests originated
in times of depression, but
during the boom of the last few
years they have spread fast. It
may even be that the Mono-
polies Act of 1948, instead of
serving as a deterrent to the
parties in question, caused them
precipitately to reorganise their
defensive structure. At all
events, by 1952 restrictive prac-
tices were considered to be so
widespread as to call for an
investigation by the Monopolies
Commission of their impact
upon the public.
This report has now been
published, and its findings have
provoked much interest. Not
often nowadays do we find
such diverse journals as the
“Daily Herald,” the “Daily
Express,” the “Manchester
Guardian,” the “Financial
Times” and the “Investors’
Chronicle” broadly unanimous
in their editorial views. But
these papers and practically all
comment (except, of course, the
manufacturing interests them-
selves) are agreed that restrictive
practices are considerable, are
against the public interest and
should be stopped.
The commission comes down
heavily on three in particular:
retail-price enforcement,
exclusive dealing, and the
pressure on retailers to concen-
trate on one line of goods by
offering them “aggregated
rebates.”
How are these practices to be
curbed? Here unanimity
breaks down. The ten members
of the commission were divided.
A minority of three advocated
the registration of restrictive
practices so that they could be
examined, while the other seven
recommended their forthright
prohibition, except where it
“could be proved that they are
in the public interest.” The
majority-view is the one to
command the greatest outside
support.
The problem is a tricky one
for the Government, and not
merely because of the difficulty
of devising, and drafting, a
legislative instrument which can
be, in the first instance, no more
than a “pilot” bill. It is to be
expected that business interests
—the great and worthy even
more than the narrowly self-
seeking—will bring eloquent
pleading and persuasion to the
issue, which is anything but a
clear-cut one.
Whale and Ham
The two go very well together.
The one is Moby Dick and the
other Captain Ahab. And the
place—the Duke of York’s
Theatre.
Who ever heard of Moby
Dick on the stage? And what
man of the theatre would dare
to present it, himself adapting
the novel, producing and playing
the leading part? The first
guess is the right one: Orson
Welles.
The result is an experience
that no theatregoer would want
to miss. If there are stretches
of nothingness as vacant as the
ocean during the quieter periods
of ill-fated Pequod’s quest these
are thankfully accepted, for so
much of this seemingly-casual
experiment in stagemanship and
virtuosity is enthralling to
behold. It is no wonder that a
chorus of “bravos” greeted the
quiet, anti-climacteric ending.
Mr. Welles’s artfulness is
manifold. He gets round the
difficulties of staging the scenes
ashore at Nantucket, afloat in
the Pequod and in the open sea
by ignoring them altogether.
The entire action takes place
backstage at a first-rehearsal
with only such properties as are
ready to hand. He contrives a
furious and most convincing
storm at sea with nothing more
than ropes dropped from the
flies, lighting- and sound-effects,
and the skilful bustle and
lurching of his actors.
His next piece of cunning is
to act the rehearsal in a provin-
cial American theatre in the
’nineties. Why? To give
credulity to his barnstorming
style of acting with its terrifying
rolling of eye, extravagance of
gesture and plunging excesses of
diction. (And, just to show that
he’s not type-cast, he also plays,
in a quiet, remote key, the
seaman’s padre, Father Mapple.)
The rehearsal also permits of
a white girl in a long dress
as Pip, the Negro cabin-boy,
and causes no physical discom-
fort to Mr. Welles’s right leg,
since he doesn’t need to strap it
back. Instead, his Captain
Ahab thumps about, using a
stick in place of the vengeful
peg-leg.
Nor does he steal all the
thunder. Much of the time he
is upstage in a half-light, still
dominating the play, but entirely
in character as the monomaniac
skipper. Gordon Jackson gives
the narrator, Ishmael, a noble
mien and a keen literary sense,
while Patrick McGoohan
heightens the dramatic tension
by his dignity, strength and
restrained doubting as Starbuck,
the first-mate.
Orson Welles intends “Moby
Dick” to be the first of a season
of repertory. On this showing
the prospect is an exciting one.


Discussion of your needs—in complete
confidence —is cordially invited . Call
or write for a copy of Important
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors,
Trustees!”
A SERVICE OF GREAT VALUE TO
Business and Professional Men
To the man who has acquired valuable business
interests and seeks an assurance that there will
be no dislocation or lack of efficient control
after his death, Union Trustee provides the
solution.
By appointing Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney, such a man
ensures sympathetic, efficient administration
of all his business and individual requirements
and the future security of his Estate.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1883
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Swan Brewery Co. (W.A.)
TT has always been a lush profit-earner
•*- and dividend-payer, and looks like
remaining so. Still, apart from periodic
strengthening of the rate of distribution,
the two-for-one gift scrip-issue in 1951
and last term’s cash-issue of 3,389,581
new ss. shares at a premium of Is. each
are likely to mean that benefits to share-
holders will be more widely spaced than
of recent years.
Headquarters are at Melbourne, and
have been since 1887, but the breweries
are in Westralia, where the co. has
swallowed one competitor after another,
including the Lion, Castlemaine and Emu
breweries, and the Kalgoorlie Brewery and
Ice Co. It thus now enjoys virtually a
monopoly of the trade in the thirsty and
expanding West, where beer-consumption
per head of population is above average
for the Commonwealth.
Large - scale extensions to and
modernisation of the breweries and hotel
properties is now under way. Brewing
and storage facilities at the Emu division
are being approximately doubled, and the
work is expected to be finished before
next balancing-date. The new share-
capital, and more besides, will then be
fully employed, and earnings can be
expected to benefit. The co. has also
developed an export trade, the volume of
which is undisclosed, but it makes “quite
a contribution towards Australia’s foreign
exchange,” the chairman claims.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests and allowing £132,376 for depre-
ciation and something for taxation and
contingencies, there was a slip of £63,651
in last term’s declared net earnings of
parent and subsidiaries:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends ■,
Tear Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
31, £ £ p.c. £ £ £
1951.. 021 3000 25 = 206,912 35,109 3,960,523
Reserves capitalised, £1,716,268 .. 2,244,255
Unexplained addition, £62,204 .. 2,306,459
1952.. 391 3000 7.5 = 193,186 2,269,075
Unexplained addition, £170,238 .. 2,439,313
1953.. 3000 8.3 = 214,651 56,096 2,495,409
Unexplained addition, £108,274 .. 2,603,683
1954.. 763 3000 8.3 = 214,651 74,112 2,677,795
Profit sale assets, £4072 .. .. 2,681,867
Share premiums, £84,740 .. .. 2,766,607
Tax overprovided, £13,192 .. .. 2,779,799
Unexplained addition, £221,428 .. 3,001,227
1955.. 3000 9.1 = 278,485 2,947,854
* After eliminating outside interests.
t Excludes depreciation reserve, £912,879 at
31/3/’55.
The £228,112 of profit claimed covered
the pref. div. and 7.4 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 11.2 p.c. for the
previous term. That leaves out of the
reckoning unexplained additions to
general reserves of £221,428, some of
which might be due to a change in the
method of presenting the figures. It also
excludes £13,192 previously overpro-
vided for taxation, a profit of £4072 on
sale of assets and £84,740 of share
premiums. Yet the div. was lifted from
8.3 p.c. to 9.1 p.c., which suggests that
the profit was conservatively stated and
that the board is satisfied with the
outlook.
Australian production of beer for the
12 months to March 31 last increased by
nearly 10 p.c., or at about the same rate
as for the previous year. The growth
was most marked in bottled beer, which
is more profitable than bulk sales. Costs
were relatively steady, and there was no
rise in the rate of income tax. In excise,
taxes and duties of various kinds the
organisation dredged up £6,466,431 for
the Treasury last term, or nearly 23 times
the amount paid to shareholders in divi-
dends. A small lift in the co.’s selling-
price of beer in May last should help
offset the effects of the rise in marginal
wage-rates and increases in the cost of
raw materials and transport, etc.
During the year the book-value of
freeholds increased by £220,548, plant,
etc., by £302,680, and the holding of
cash, etc., was strengthened by £254,523:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord 2,575,813 2,575,813 2,999,510
Reserves .. .. 2,495,408 2,677,795 2,947,854
Depreciation res... 736,277 796,098 912,879
Outside interests.. 30,174 13,356 23,003
Mortgages .. 47,753 47,747
'Overdraft .. .. 74,662
Tax provision .. 272,763 311,553 375,729
Creditors, etc. .. 491,046 217,637 250,780
Final divs. .. 130,291 130,291 172,660
£6,829,525 £6,894,952 £7,732,415
Freeholds .. .. 3,876,328 4,016,499 4,237,047
Plant, etc. .. 1,831,412 1,988,674 2,291,364
Stock .. .. 644,247 646,629 570,026
Debtors .. .. 810,749 317,806 354,121
Cash, etc 266,789 25,344 279,867
£6,829,525 £6,894,952 £7,732,415
Only half the new share-capital (£423,697)
and share-premiums (£84,740) was
gathered during the year, leaving like
amounts on each account due for pay-
ment in May last. Despite the growth in
fixed assets, net working capital
(£404,845) also increased by £256,956.
The market sums up prospects for the
undertaking by pricing the f.-p. ss. ords.
at 9s. 3d. (10s. 9d. a year ago) to give
an immediate return of 4.9 p.c. on a 9.1
p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover is
9s. 3d. The well-protected prefs. seldom
appear on ’Change.
Bankers and Traders Insurance Co.
'T'HIS 34-year-old Sydney-controlled
fire, marine and accident office has
world-wide connections. Over the last
few years its harvests in the underwriting
field have been lean, due to unprofitable
foreign operations. Shareholders, how-
ever, have had a steady 12| p.c. since
1949, thanks to returns from investments.
For the 12 months to March 31 last net
earnings from this source were £43,341
(up £1784), or £12,681 more than the
12i p.c. div. called for.
The policy has been to keep the annual
distribution within the return from in-
vestments, a practice long followed by
leading British and other offices, thus
leaving the underwriting surplus during
the good years available to swell reserves
and returns therefrom. In the lean years,
when underwriting is unprofitable,
reserves for unexpired risks cushion the
bump. In the long-run gains have far
outweighed losses. At the close of last
accounts the co. had accumulated reserves
of £889,041 (including £508,000 for
unexpired risks) to support and assist the
£245,281 of share-capital.
After earmarking £13,000 for unex-
pired risks, there was a slip of £llO2 in
last term’s profit from all sources:
To Re- Re-
March, Surplus. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1950 .. 65,422 12$ p.c. = 26,367 29,055 694,750
To reserve unexpired risk, £54,000 .. 748,750
1951 .. 53,062 12$ p.c. = 30,660 22,402 771,152
To reserve unexpired risk, £50,000 .. 821,152
1952 .. 23,571 12$ p.c. = 30,660 814,063
1953 .. 28,766 12$ „ „ 30,660 812,169
1954 .. 63,147 12$ „ „ 30,660 32,487 844,656
To reserve unexpired risks, £13,000 .. 857,656
1955 .. 62,045 12$ p.c. = '30,660 31,385 889,041
•Includes reserve unexpired risks, £508,000 at
31/3/’55.
The £62,045 was 25.3 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 25.7, 11.7, 9.6, 21.6, and
26.2 p.c. back to 1950. The net return
from investments was £43,341, or 17.7
p.c., and underwriting £18,704, or
7.6 p.c.
After two years in retreat, net premium
income advanced by £32,908 last term —
continued expansion of the business in
Australia outstripped further contrac-
tion of takings overseas:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses.* Ratio. Ratio.
£ £ £
1952. 1,337,250 814,315 529,596 60.9 p.c. 39.6 p.c.
1953. 1,266,418 782,079 488,831 61.7 „ 38.6 „
1954. 1,236,778 754,246 460,942 61.0 „ 37.2 „
1955. 1,269,686 796,569 441,413 62.7 „ 34.7 „
* Excludes tax on investment income.
Another pleasing feature is the saving of
50s. p.c. in the expense-rate, due largely
to withdrawal from India and Pakistan,
where most of the trouble has occurred
of recent years. So, although losses
gobbled an extra 345. p.c., there was a
gain of £10,114 in the gross underwriting
surplus (£31,704). But after sending
£13,000 (nil previous year) to the reserves
for unexpired risks, the net underwriting
surplus was £2886 lighter at £18,704. The
total amount set aside for unexpired risks
(£508,000) is equal to 40 p.c. of last term’s
net premiums, which is the ratio usually
considered adequate for the purpose.
Policyholders and shareholders are both
well-protected:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £245,281 £245,281 £245,281
Reserves .. .. 812,167 844,654 889,039
Sundry creditors* 240,247 178,683 161,802
Outstanding claims,
etc 543,122 566,869 570,705
Final div. .. 18,396 18,396 18,396
£1,859,213 £1,853,883 £1,885,223
Freeholds .. .. 324,095 356,538 365,906
Advances co-ops.t 203,988 215,293 215,279
Shares subsids. .. 69,995 69,995 69,996
Shares other cos. 253,149 250,741 253,327
Book debts, etc... 308,042 257,999 251,032
Gov’ment securities 595,064 564,477 642,575
Cash .. .. 104,880 138,840 87,108
£1,859,213 £1,853,883 £1,885,223
* Includes provision for taxation, f Advances to
building co-op. societies.
Some of the assets are worth more than
their book-value, and Government
securities and cash alone were equal to
nearly 92 p.c, of last term’s total loss
claims.
In the underwriting field the board
expects to obtain more profitable results
from overseas, following the withdrawal
from India and Pakistan. In South
Africa, where the business is still expand-
ing, three Australian underwriters recently
decided to operate jointly, the aim being
to reduce excessive competition, eliminate
price-cutting, stabilise exes., and curb
development costs. And more sub-
branches are to be established inside Aus-
tralia, where satisfactory overall under-
writing results are being won, despite
mounting claims and narrowing margins
in connection with motor-vehicle and
workers’-compensation risks.
Altogether the trend in the co.’s affairs
has fitted in pretty well with market anti-
cipations. At 40s. (same as a year ago) the
£1 shares paid to 12s. 6d. each return
only 3.9 p.c. on a 12i p.c. div. basis, or
4.7 p.c. if the distribution is lifted to 15
p.c. Including the provision for unexpired
risks, net tangible cover is 575. lOd.
Pierwood Plastics, Ltd. (Sydney)
A LTHOUGH trade in plastics is expand-
ing, competition is keen, and Pier-
wood, which is carrying a heavy load of
outside debts, has stumbled again. If
current negotiations for absorption of
the business by Australian Consolidated
Industries, Ltd., are successful, the co.
will withdraw from the race under present
ownership. The talks are still in progress,
but nothing has been finalised yet, nor
has any hint been given as to what A.C.I.
has offered, or is likely to offer. At the
moment it is therefore not possible to
say exactly what lies ahead of the under-
taking and its shareholders.
Paid capital is £487,101 in 100,000 £1
5 p.c. prefs. (taken by City Mutual Life)
and 1,548,404 ss. ords.; and at December
31 last reserves exceeded intangibles by
only £1927. In the market the price of
the ords. fell from a peak of 7s. 3d. in
1953 to ss. 4d. at the end of 1954. The
figure eased to 4s. 9d. in March, 1955,
strengthened to ss. lid. in May, fell
sharply to 4s. 3d. at the end of June,
following publication of the latest
accounts, and then strengthened to
around ss. 4d., after the chairman’s
announcement of merger negotiations,
but slipped back to 4s. 9d. at the end of
last week. The return at 4s. 9d. would
be 5.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Net tan-
gible cover (book-value) is a wink over
ss.
Formed in June, 1948, to take over a
small privately-owned concern, the busi-
ness expanded rapidly, and divs. averag-
ing 11.5 p.c. were paid for the 2\ years
to December 31, 1951. In the following
year the co. was caught with large stocks
on a falling market, and a heavy writing-
down of inventory values, and provision
of £19,000 for losses on a large purchase
of defective raw materials from overseas,
resulted in abrupt contraction of profits,
and the ords. were passed by. There was
a marked improvement in both turnover
and profit in 1953, and a generous 10
p.c. was distributed.
During 1953 activities had been
expanded by purchase of a half-interest
(£100,000) in a new co., M.I. Products
(Aust.) Pty., which took over Moldex’s
injection-moulding department in Mel-
bourne, and “operated profitably” for its
first six months to December 31, 1953.
Pierwood financed its part of the deal as
to £50,000 by the issue of 6 p.c. notes,
and the balance from working capital.
For the year to December 31 last, turn-
over increased by about 5 p.c., but the
profit claimed was £27,423 lower at
£23,512, which was £843 less than the
pref. div. and an interim 5 p.c. to the ords.
called for—no final div. was paid:
Pierwood Plastics and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends *
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1950*. .36,841 1250 6* p.c.= 12,562 23,029 75,866
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 86,866
Intangibles written off, £6653 .. .. 79,213
Taxes previous years, £779 .. .. 78,434
1951 ..56,590 5000 10 p.c.= 28,190 22,400 100,834
Intangibles written off, £10,360 .. 90,474
1952 ..14,342 5000 Nil 9,342 99,816
Intangibles written off, £5OOO .. 94,816
1953 ..50,935 5000 10 p.c.= 37,810 8,125 102,941
Intangibles written off, £30,000 .. 72,941
To stock revaluation res., £20,000 .. 62,941
1954 ..23,512 6000 5 p.c= 19,355 52,098
* Six months. f Subject to intangibles,
£50,171 at 31/12/’64.
The chairman says “it was necessary to
make far greater provision for deprecia-
tion of stocks than was at first expected
....and to write out of the accounts
expenditure incurred in development of
new projects.” The amounts involved
were £20,000 and £30,000 respectively.
Taking only the writing-down of stocks
into the reckoning, the year’s profit was
£3512. The allowance for depreciation
was £36,786 (down £9968) and for taxa-
tion £7059 (down £21,366), or 4s. 7d. in
the £. After capitalising £14,205 spent on
purchase of new rights to moulding-
machine improvements, etc., intangibles
now stand at £50,171.
The financial position worsened, the
contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£82,271, including shareholdings)
being £117,778:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 387,101 387,101 387,101
Reserves .. .. 99,815 102,940 62,097
Outside interests 3,982
Mortgage .. 35,000 32,500 60,000
Unsecured notes .. 50,000 75,000
Overdraft .. .. 212,227 233,391 292,408
Creditors, etc.* .. 150,126 324,824 278,632
Final divs. .. 19,355 19,355
£984,269 £1,250,111 £1,268,575
Freeholds .. .. 146,704 149,006 180,002
Plant, etc. .. 182,943 195,020 230,736
Shares other cos. 73,327 179,319 179,810
Stocks .. .. 375,989 380,298 335,754
Debtors, etc. .. 164,449 298,966 291,201
Cash .. .. 1,306 1,536 901
Intangibles .. 39,551 45,966 60,171
£984,269 £1,250,111 £1,268,575
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet net additions of £30,996 to free-
holds, £35,716 to plant, etc., and reduce
the amount coming to sundry creditors
by £46,192, the co. went to its bankers
for an extra £59,017, and increased the
sums raised on mortgages by £27,500 and
notes by £25,000. Of the reduction of


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt,
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
c c
m
v\
ctJ
DO
do
no D Q 0 □
II II II l|
" " " M « « « II H II II II
nn
Co-operation with Producers
is the business of this Bank
When The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited, was established in 1834, it set out to co-operate
with competent producers—on the land—and later, in
secondary industries, so that they might produce more
profitably for the benefit of us all.
Down through the years we have aided such men in
their schemes of sound development. We have stood by
them in difficult times.
Today, this Bank, owned and staffed by Australians,
offers the same co-operation, the same efficient, friendly
and helpful service—and the benefit of its long experience
to enterprising men engaged in profitable production.
At Head Office or the branch nearest to you, our officers
will gladly give particulars of our service.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which Is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Divorce Notices
TO ERNEST ANDREW ROBERTSON
formerly of Darwin but now of parts
unknown. —NOTICE is hereby given that
MARJORIE LOUISE ROBERTSON of
Darwin has issued a Writ out of the
Supreme Court of the Northern Territory
in an action in which she claims an
order for Divorce from you on the ground
of your adultery and is claiming costs
against you If you desire to be heard
in opposition to the claim you must file
an appearance in the office of the Master
of the said Supreme Court at Darwin
on or before the Twenty-first day of
August 1956 otherwise you may be found
guilty of adultery and orders may be
made againßt you in your absence. —A.
BROUGH NEWELL, Darwin, Plaintifl’s
solicitor. '
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN MERVYN CUSBERT LONG-
WORTH late of 102 Walker Street North
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE
MAUD LONGWORTH has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4677 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 9th day of September 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. J. McLACH-
LAN, lIOARE & CO., Solicitors, of 6
Wynjard Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Fuitli in th e
Future
jmf,
mm
One of the most moving stories I have heard
for years concerns a New Australian —a Latvian
woman.
Unable to speak a word of English, she has
come to Australia with her family and is going to
school to learn the language—at 73 years of age.
What spirit this woman must have!
How many of us at her age, transplanted to a
foreign country, would set about mastering its
tongue?
She chose to be articulate. And in that, I
believe, she has served up a valuable lesson for us
in Australia.
In today’s world we must be articulate as a
people, so that Australia will be better known and
better understood.
Our diplomats have been doing an excellent
job abroad. Radio Australia is performing an
invaluable service in sending out news and com-
mentaries to nations beyond the seas. In various
ways our voice is beginning to be heard and our
viewpoint respected.
But there is still an enormous untouched field
for the cultivation of closer understanding—of our-
selves, of the policies we pursue and why we pursue
them. There is a need for carrying constantly the
message that racial hatred is not in our hearts, and
that our purpose is to contribute to the building of
a better world.
In my opinion, that is as important to Australia
as her own internal prosperity.
Let us be true with ourselves: There are degrees
in expression. A babe in its mother’s arms can be
articulate, but it has not the expressive strength of
a grown man.
The world is going to judge us not by what we
say, but by what we do and how well we do it.
And in the end it comes down to the effort each
one of us is prepared to make—just as it did to the
good lady from Latvia.
T
////asfc
ee^icix.
7
£44,544 in stocks (in at or below
the lower of cost or market-
value), £20,000 was in respect of
the writing - down already
referred to. Wten the books
closed there was 265. 2d. of out-
side money in the business for
every £ belonging to share-
holders.
The position has been eased
somewhat since the close of
accounts by sale of the holding
in M.I. Products (in at £125,000)
to Moldex for a cash payment
of £50,000 and cancellation of
the 6 p.c. unsecured notes
totalling £75,000.
Swallow and Ariell (Melb.)
C|CRIP of this old-established
biscuit-, cake-, plum-
pudding and ice-cream-making
business has some attractive fea-
tures as an investment. The co.
has an extensive goodwill,
valued in the books at £42,393
and worth a lot more, there has
been no writing-up of the book-
value of assets, share-capital is
moderate, reserves are strong
and earnings are robust. Aver-
age profit for the last five years
more than twice covered last
term’s all-round 12| p.c. div.
When the books were ruled-
off at April 28 last, the £300,000
of capital (unchanged for over
30 years) was backed by
£551,637 of reserves, subject to
the goodwill item just mentioned.
Net earnings shot up from an
average of £12,702 for the 10
years to 1940 to £48,707 for the
next decade and to £78,581 for
the five years to the close of last
account. The marked improve-
ment in the figures is evidence of
how the business has responded
to reorganisation, plant-additions
and modernisation, buoyant
post-war markets and the exten-
sion of activities to Tasmania,
where the biscuit-making busi-
ness of C. D. Haywood Pty. was
taken over by a new subsidiary,
Swallow and Haywood Pty.,
about five years ago.
There was a slip of £10,295
in combined net earnings of the
group last term, due mainly to
the experience of the Tasmanian
offshoot, whose turnover shrank
while costs swelled. The Ice
Cream co. earned more and the
parent’s profit was only slightly
less: —
Swallow and Ariell and Subsidiaries.
r —Dividends—Re-
Apl., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ £ £
’52..58,427 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 455,590
To staff fufid, £4500 ..451,090
Loss on sale assets, £1314 .. 449,776
’53..65,084 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 484,860
To staff fund, £3310 .. 481,550
Provision long-service leave,
£18,500 463,050
Profit sale assets, £1293 .. 464,343
Tax overprovided, £13,317 .. 477,660
’54..90,901 12£p.c. 12 jp.c. 37,500 631,061
To staff fund, £3135 .. 627,926
Provision long-service leave,
£18,500 609,426
Net loss sale assets, £895 .. 609,031
’55..80,606 12£p.c. 12$p.c. 37,500 552,187
To staff fund, £5OO .. .. 551,637
* Subject to £42,393 of goodwill at
28/4/’65.
The £80,606 of profit, which was
written after allowing £42,812
(up £1490) for depreciation and
£47,884 (down £16,928) for taxa-
tion, was 26.8 p.c. on capital as
against 30.3, 21.8, 19.4, 32.6 and
20.8 p.c. back to 1950. So
maintenance of the 12j p.c. div.,
of which 2} p.c. is tax-free,
remained a comfortable matter,
making average distribution over
the last five years 11 p.c., com-
pared with averages of 6.3 p.c.
for the preceding decade and 2.2
p.c. for the ten years before that.
The year’s net additions of
£83,803 to plant, etc., and
£12,992 to freeholds reflect
further modernisation and
expansion:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital— £ £
Pref. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Ord. .. 200,000 200,000 200,000
Reserves .. 481,551 627,927 561,638
Creditors, etc. 211,034 311,444 328,754
Tax prov’n 130,755 64,812 79,327
Final divs... 19,500 27.000 22,500
1,142,840 1,231,183 1,282,219
Freeholds .. 255,822 297,115 310,107
Plant, etc. 276,888 292,212 376,015
Stocks .. 200,616 185,606 191,779
Debtors .. 205,837 256,645 233,531
Cash, etc. .. 162,284 157,212 128,394
Goodwill .. 42,393 42,393 42,393
1,142,840 1,231,183 1,282,219
The net addition of £17,310 to
the amount coming to creditors,
etc., was on account of provision
for long-service leave. The con-
traction of £68,084 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£123,123)
was due to the outlay on fixed
assets.
The struggle during the
current term will be to offset the
uptrend in wage and other costs
by an adequate growth of turn-
over and increased operational
efficiency. Both classes of scrip
recently sold at 445. 6d. (445. a
year ago) to return 5.6 p.c. on a
12% p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 535. lid. per share —the
100,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs. advance
with the ords. in any distribution
beyond that rate and share in
surplus assets.
Thabawleik Tin Dredging, one
of the Austral Malay group,
operating in Lower Burma, has
informed shareholders that the
Burmese Government has de-
cided to deduct a super-tax of
26.5 p.c. on all dividends paid
to shareholders. Although
Sydney-controlled, Thabawleik
is registered in Malaya, where
the tax on dividends is 30 p.c.
This means that should the co.
declare a dividend of Is. (stg.)
per share (which was the rate
paid on March 25 last) share-
holders will now receive a net
amount of only 6.18 d. (stg.), or
about 7fd. in Australian
currency. The chairman says
shareholders can obtain a refund
of the Burma tax if their total
income from all sources is less
than about £5600 (stg.). Appli-
cation for the refund should be
made to the Income Tax Officer,
non - residents refund circle,
Rangoon. The co. has a paid
capital of £BO,OOO in f.-p. 10s.
shares. On Sydney ’Change the
price of the scrip fell from 355.
in December, 1954, to 195., or
thereabouts, last week.
* * *
Blue Spec, on the faraway
Pilbara field (W.A.), is in diffi-
culties again. With debts total-
ling about £60,000 and an empty
till, shareholders were asked on
July 8 to consider voluntary
liquidation. On a show of hands
a majority decided that another
blood-transfusion might bring
the show back to life again. The
co. wa§ reconstructed a year or
so ago, and fresh capital was got
in on the strength of the board’s
high hopes and expectations —a
profit of £600,000 from 2\ years’
work was mentioned. The f.-p.
ss. shares now fetch around 6d.
each in the market. Efforts to
interest other cos. in the venture
have failed. Whether the board
is now likely to succeed in rais-
ing fresh capital remains to be
seen.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
A fanfare from the silver trumpets of
the R.A.A.F. Central Band heralded the
arrival of the vice-regal party at the
Town Hall for the ball given to more
than 3000 guests by the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. P.
Selleck). Scarlet-coated officers of the
Royal Melbourne Regiment formed the
guard-of-honor past which the Governor
and Lady Brooks, Chief Justice Sir
Edmund Herring and Lady Herring,
Premier Henry Bolte and Mrs. Bolte and
their host and hostess walked to the dais.
The arrangement of the National Anthem
used at the Queen’s Coronation was
played by the combined Royal Mel-
bourne Regiment and R.A.A.F. Central
bands and the organ.
The approaching Olympic Games set
the theme for the decorations. Larger-
than-life figures of two athletes, holding
an Olympic torch above a huge revolv-
ing globe, dominated the stage. Above
them was an illuminated map of Australia
topped by a set of Olympic circles, and
on each side was arranged a Grecian
background of graceful temples, with the
original Olympic torch burning. In front
of this was a scene of Melbourne’s land-
marks, flags in Olympic colors, gardens
and banks of shrubs, greenery and masses
of pink and white cyclamens.
Lady Brooks wore a lovely gown of
pearl-pink satin, the off-the-shoulder
bodice encrusted with pink pearls and
sequins. She added a diamond tiara and
a white Arctic-fox stole. A picture-gown
of cloud-pink nylon-tulle was worn by
the Lady Mayoress. The bodice was over-
laid with pink Brussels-lace patterned in
flowers and butterflies outlined with silver
thread and silyer beads. The skirt had
a straight panel in the centre, with layers
of tulle coming from the lower hipline.
Mrs. Bolte’s gown of shell-pink lace was
finely pleated; the fitted strapless bodice
being edged with narrow lace. Black
velvet flowers were appliqued on the
bodice and hipline.
V V V
The Myer Mural Hall was transformed
into a charming setting of the exterior of
one of the oldest sections of Rome, the
Piazza di Spagna, for the gala dinner-
parade of Italian fashions. These (valued
at £25,000), from Italy’s top designers,
were shown by four Italian and five Aus-
tralian mannequins. The gala-night,
which was attended by the Governor and
Lady Brooks, will aid Prince Henry’s
Hospital building-appeal.
Lady Brooks wore a full-skirted gown
of white-and-gold brocade with an ermine
cape. Mrs. Norman Myer’s sheath-frock
was of white guipure-lace, Mrs. Sydney
Ba’llieu Myer’s orchid-pink pure-silk
gown carried in the back stripes of grey
and lime. Others in the official party
were the Lord Mayor and Mrs. Selleck,
Minister for Immigration Harold Holt and
Mrs. Holt, Mr. A. G. Warner (represent-
ing the Premier) and Mrs. Warner, Cr.
M. Nathan (representing the hospital)
and Mrs. Nathan, Mr. and Mrs. A. H.
Tolley, the Kenneth Myers, and Minister
for Italy Dr. Daneo and Signora Daneo.
Among many beautiful gowns were
noted Hilda Corbett’s short white guipure-
lace under a sable-trimmed coat of tur-
quoise-blue velvet; Mrs. Francis Gal-
bally’s honey-toned nylon-net, with its
bands of gold embroidery: the silver
brocade with deep, rounded neckline
trimmed with grey squirrel worn by Mrs.
John Galbally; Mrs. Gladys Myer’s
champagne-toned chiffons; and the white
floral-patterned silks of Mrs. Dorothy
Gitsham.
ft ft ft
A coronet of frosted white mink held
the short tulle veil worn by Carol Thelma
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George
Griffith, of Toorak, when she was married
at St. John’s, Toorak, to Barry West. The
full skirt of Carol s gown was of sunray-
pleated nylon-tulle ; a satin princess-line
overdress swept from the shoulders of
the lily-neckline bodice to the end of the
train, and opened in front to reveal the
pleated tulle. Her bouquet was of white
orchids.
Bridesmaids Robin Kaye, Kath Mc-
Calpin and Joan Bilceaux wore short
frocks of white velveteen cut on princess-
lines. The V-necked bodices had three-
quarter-length sleeves; the skirts very
full. Bandeaus of velveteen were in their
hair, and they carried white fur-muffs
The ’groom, who is the only son of
Mr. and Mrs. W. M. West, of Brighton,
had Tom Crow as best man. Groomsmen
were Peter Watkin and Bill Gluth.
Reception was held at the home of
the bride’s parents, where a pink-lined
marquee had been erected on the lawn.
The raised bridal-table was festooned
with palest-pink chiffon caught with
clusters of pale-pink camellias. Tall white
candles were set in silver candelabra, and
at the side of the marquee the swimming-
pool carried masses of large white
balloons. A large Valentine, a white heart
edged with white lace, was set in the
entrance-hall, and on this were pinned
the cables and telegrams of good-wishes.
Mrs. Griffith wore a sheath-frock of
orchid-pink lace which had a drape of
matching satin. The full-skirted frock
of dove-grey Chantilly-lace worn by Mrs.
West had a Peter Pan collar. Among the
guests were the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Frank Selleck),
Minister for Immigration Harold Holt
(who proposed the main toast in a witty
speech) and Mrs. Holt, Miss Joan Duff
(from New York), Mr. and Mrs. Ernest
Turnbull and Mr. and Mrs. Syd Albright,
from Sydney, and Mr. and Mrs. John
Roark, from Tasmania.
The only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. H. Tolley, of Balwyn, Jennifer, who
has just announced her engagement to
John, only son of Mr. and Mrs. John
Ward, of Clayton, was educated at
Fintona and Invergowrie. After return-
ing from a holiday overseas she joined
the educational staff at the Myer
Emporium. Jennifer’s main outside
interest is show-riding, which she has
been doing since she was six. Her
fiance is on the editorial staff of Mel-
bourne “Herald.” John Warlow photo.
Noted at the first night of “My Three
Angels” at the Comedy: Mrs. Frank
Tait’s lovely bouffant gown of aqua-
blue tulle with its bead-encrusted bodice,
and her theatre-coat of black faille ; Mrs.
John Casson’s maize chiffons and short,
bronze quilted-satin jacket; Mrs. Eric
Rogers’s short black faille frock and
white Arctic-fox stole; Mrs. G. Potter’s
pearl-pink satin frock; Mrs. Dorothy
Gitsham’s warm-red jersey ballerina
frock and the embroidered bodice of
Margot Henry’s bouffant black frock;
Mrs. Peter Watkins’s black-and-gold
brocade frock and theatre-coat of old-
gold satin; and Mrs. Peter Gray’s H-line
frock of Chinese-red silk patterned in
gold horses.
* ☆ ☆
Navy League Sea cadets formed a
guard-of-honor for the Governor and
Lady Brooks, when, with members of
their staff, they attended the Royale Ball-
room for the Navy League Ball. From
a sea of greenery in the foyer rose a
miniature lighthouse showing a flashing
beam, and miniature ships’ wheels
carried the number of each table. Green
candles in silver candelabra, white and
green hydrangea, white-frosted twigs and
white arum-lilies were arranged in the
official enclosure.
The vice-regal party and other official
guests were received by the league’s
president, Commander R. A. Nettlefold,
and Mrs. Nettlefold, and president of the
ball committee Mrs. Arthur Laver and
her husband. The First Naval Member,
Vice-Admiral R. R. Dowling, and his
wife, Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins and
Lady Collins, Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
C. C. Clark, Commodore and Mrs. J. C.
Morrow and Commander and Mrs. Neil
Mackinnon were in the official party.
SYDNEY
Considering all its strikes, Sydney
wasn’t quite such a stricken city as one
might have supposed last week. Two
emergency newspapers were printed, and
although one didn’t get all the news of
the winter-sales, nobody missed up-to-
the-minute information on the Bundaberg
quads. The white-collar workers kept
up such an excellent supply of gas that
housewives who had been toying with
the idea of buying an electric-stove
changed their minds over-week. There
was plenty of meat, though fewer people,
it seemed, to serve it. Of course, people
affected by the sanitary-workers’ strike
were by no means happy, though when
the spring comes they will reap a reward,
for (so scientists say) it is their gardens
which will then bloom most brightly.
ft ft ft
Many beautiful furs were to be seen
at the opening night of “Simon and
Laura” at the Royal, and there was a
very gay atmosphere generally, which was
stimulated by the liveliness of the show.
Lady Moxham was there in a black
velvet and a long mink coat, Mrs. Charles
Chauvel in pearl-studded pink satin and
a silver - fox cape. Mr. and Mrs.
Laurence Byrne were with Mr. and Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere; Mrs. John Bovill’s
dark-red faille ballerina was much
admired; Mrs. lan Jacoby’s platina-
mink stole looked very glamorous;
Frank Clune entertained his whole family
in honor of son Tony’s 25th birthday
(they occupied one of the boxes); and
Dr. and Mrs. Bateman were accompanied
by Mrs. Bateman’s sister, Melbourne
visitor Mrs. Bing Molyneux, and her
husband.
Hilary Bamberger has won the coveted
part of “Lotus Blossom” in J. C. William-
son’s production of “The Teahouse of the
August Moon,” to open in Melbourne in
August. Hilary, who until this week
played juvenile-lead in the Independent’s
“Living Room,” has been in Australia
for three months, having come from
England with her parents, the well-known
variety team Freddy and Pam Bamberger.
Now 19, she has already visited America
(where she made her first stage-appear-
ance at the age of 12), Canada, South
Africa and France, and last year
in England she acted in 48 repertory
plays. In “The Teahouse of the August
Moon” she plays opposite John
Bonney, who also leaves for Mel-
bourne this week. Her part in “The
Living Room” will be taken by Toni
Palmer. Photo by Montgomery Dunn.
There seemed to be quite an influx of
Melbourne visitors to Sydney during the
week. Lunching at Prince’s were Mrs.
J. K. Peterson, up from Toorak on her
annual winter visit, with her cousin Mrs.
Francis Due, of Darling Point. Near by,
Mrs. Standish Falkiner, with small
daughter “Lilybel” (Sarah really, but she
refuses to be called this!), caught up on
the chatter with Mrs. Jimmy James, in
Sydney for the day from her home,
Kaiviti, Camden. Mr. and Mrs. Morris
Sallmann, en route to Brisbane, lunched
with their daughter Mrs. Eric Abraham
and Mr. Abraham —a small family-party.
Also at Prince’s were Mr. and Mrs.
David Downes, of Cobbity, in town for
the day with Mrs. Douglas Murray and
her husband (they were all busy collect-
ing their equipment before going with
friends to Kosciusko for a skiing holi-
day), while at a near-by table Sarah
Hordern, one of Sydney’s most popular
girls, lunched a deux with Captain
Weber Brown.
V • #
Many of Sydney’s younger matrons
will arrange table-settings for the “Dining
in Color” exhibition organised by the
Kuringai Karitane Mobile Clinic com-
mittee, to open at David Jones’ on July
27. They include Mrs. Robert Minter
and Mrs. John Minter, Mrs. David Lloyd
Jones, Mrs. Bill Tilley, Mrs. James
Petrie, Mrs. Phillip Berry-Smith and Mrs.
John Swain. The exhibition, which will
include two novelties, a “Babies’ Corner”
and a boudoir-setting, will feature a new
type of colored Portuguese Madeira-work
cloth called Marghab linen. It will be
opened by Mrs. Robert Cleveland.
# &
To welcome distinguished British law-
yer and politician Kenneth Younger,
Dyason lecturer for 1955, the Australian
Institute of International Affairs held a
reception at the Rural Bank building dur-
ing the week. As Mr. Younger is interested
in folk-music and had expressed a wish
to hear some Australian folk-songs during
his visit, honorary secretary of the Aus-
tralian Folklore Society John Meredith
arranged for members of the Bush-
whackers’ Band to play some Australian
bush-songs at the function, thereby giving
it th?t little extra touch of interest and
gaiety which cocktail-parties these days
seem to need. Major-General C. A.
Osborne and Mrs. Osborne welcomed the
guests, and their daughter Hilary was
also present. Noticed Miss Marjorie
Jacobs there, also Dr. Karen Helms, Mr.
H. D. Black, Mr. and Mrs. Ray Watt,
U.K. Trade Commissioner Bruce and
Mrs. Bruce, and Mr. Noel Griffiths.
ft ft ft
A plaque commemorating the benefac-
tions of the late Sir Hugh Denison and
Lady Denison was unveiled at the Royal
Empire Society by the Governor, Sir
John Northcott, on Thursday, when Sir
Hugh was referred to as the “backbone
of the society” in N.S.W. from its inaugu-
ration in 1922 (then known as the Royal
Colonial Institution). The plaque, in
bronze mounted on Queensland walnut,
was designed by Hungarian sculptor
Andor Meszaros, who has also designed
the Olympic medal.
Guests welcomed by Dr. and Mrs.
Garnet Halloran included members of
the Denison family, Mr. B. J. Waterhouse,
Mrs. Louise Wykeham-Smith, Sir William
Durrant, Mr. and Mrs. F. E. Manning,
and Adelaide visitors Mr. and Mrs. Ray
Salas (she is well-known as couturiere
Kathlyn Hecker).
It will be remembered that the beautiful
building in Bligh-street where the Royal
Empire Society has its home was the
gift of Sir Hugh Denison.
# S V
One of the most beautiful concert-
platform gowns seen in Sydney for quite
a time was worn by American soprano
Mattiwilda Dobbs at her first appearance
on Wednesday. Of heavy white satin, it
was cut narrowly in front but pleated to
greater fullness at the back. The waist-
length jacket, with three-quarter sleeves,
was sprinkled with embroidered roses and
green leaves which glittered here and there
with diamente, and this embroidery was
repeated in a band which ran down the
sides of the dress and across the hem at
the back. It was one of those few dresses
which can be called both spectacular and
simple.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sir Eugene Goossens will be present at
the reception which Madame Mathy will
give for her pupil John Cameron next
Saturday at her Double Bay home.
Other well-known people who have
accepted invitations are Consul-General
for Korea Dr. L. H. Kim and Mrs. Kim,
G. W. James, H. P. Tinkler and Eugene
Prokop. The guest-of-honor will give
a recital, sponsored by the A.8.C., on
July 29.
ft ft ft
Women are certainly taking a promin-
ent part in the work of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, for its Drama Company
has as director Miss Elsie Beyer, and it
in turn will bring to Australia for its
first season the Adelaide-born tragic-
actress Judith Anderson, who will star
in the Robinson Jeffers version of
“Medea” with an all-Australian com-
pany directed by Hugh Hunt. All will
remember Miss Anderson’s part as the
housekeeper in the film “Rebecca,” but
it is on the stage that she has become
most famous, and the opportunity to see
her (she will play a short season in every
Australian capital) will be very welcome.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notice
IN DIVORCE.
TO KAZIMIR RACZYNSKI (also known
as CASIMIR RACZYNSKI) formerly of
Sydney, Professional Wrestler, but now
of parts unknown, the husband of GRACE
RACZYNSKI, of the City of Wellington,
New Zealand.—TAKE NOTICE that a
Petition for Divorce by your wife on
the grounds that you and your wife
are living apart and are unlikely to be
reconciled and have been living apart
for not less than seven years has been
filed in the Supreme Court at Wellington
New Zealand and that unless within 28
days from the date of publication of
this advertisement you flle_ in the said
Court an Answer to the Petition you wnl
not be entitled to be heard except on
questions of costs and maintenance and
the Court may proceed to determine the
Petition in your absence Further that
until you have given an address for ser-
vice you will not be entitled to receive
notice of any further proceedings A
decree for dissolution is made by Decree
Nisi in the first instance and until such
Decree Nisi is made Absolute the mar-
riage is not dissolved A Decree Nisi
is not a defence to a charge of bigamy.
A copy of the Petition and of a Notice
to you will be supplied to you on appli-
cation at the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington, New Zealand. DATED at
Wellington this sth day of July, 1955.
J. L. W, GERKEN, Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him this adver-
tisement. Mr. I. L. McKAY is the Soli-
citor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the offices of MESSIEURS
SWAN, DAVIES & McKAY, T. & G.
Building, Grey Street, Wellington, New
Zealand.
IN WHITE HORSE, at the hand of Time, a great
and generous spirit has learned to be gentle.
To know it is to be charmed by its mild, good
manners; to be thrilled by the thought of such quality
under control. By its character subdued and superb,
delicate bouquet and heartening glow, you
recognise a thoroughbred among whiskies.
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
"uuar
; &s
’Sti.--*
-nr
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Herman Outback
Since Drysdale and Nolan,
following the trail pioneered by
Heysen and Murch, have gone
exploring outback there has
developed a very comfortable
formula for a saleable and
“typical” outback picture. It
consists of a dilapidated shanty
sitting in the middle of no-
where ; and it looks so delight-
fully easy to do that this com-
mentator has half a mind to
have a shot at it himself.
In the meantime, until that
dire day dawns, there are some
pleasant expressions of the
formula by Sali Herman at
David Jones’, Sydney. Mr.
Herman has obviously had no
trouble at all in shifting
his favorite Woolloomooloo
shanties to somewhere back of
Bourke; all you have to do is
to knock down the neighboring
buildings and there you are . . .
with the same old shanty in the
wide open spaces.
Mr. Herman has also faith-
fully followed another of Sidney
Nolan’s devices, borrowed from
aboriginal art, of painting a
scraggly fa9ade of trees, without
perspective, to represent the far,
wild forests ; and he has fol-
lowed Drysdale in tackling the
shanty-town aborigines (who,
dilapidated as they undoubtedly
are in life, are considerably more
so in Mr. Herman’s strange pot-
shots at representing the human
form). It may have been Drys-
dale, too —unless, after all, it
was Nature —who piled the
rocks one on top of another for
him in “Devil’s Marbles” ...
very amiable rocks they are, too,
if it weren’t for the awful white
dog.
With Woolloomooloo still
tumbling down on the opposite
wall, accompanied by some por-
traits which, in contrast to the
old buildings, have the immortal
rigidity of waxworks, it is, on
the whole, a pleasing exhibition
in its bright, shallow style ; lack-
ing in light and heat, but
acquiring an unexpected weight
in the dusk of “Evening,
Northern Territory.”
But why doesn’t one of these
painters have a go at the real
vitality of the outback, the life
of mustering, branding and
riding on the cattle-stations
which, if anyone has the tech-
nique to do it, could still be
painted with the vigor of Tom
Roberts’s “The Breakaway” and
“The Shearing-shed”?
♦S ♦> ❖
Drawings
Drawings of various kinds at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries
make a show which, if never
wildly exciting, is generally
interesting: for the wit of Imre
Szigeti’s outline of goings-on on
Bondi beach and of Judy
Cassab’s very feminine ballet-
dancer ; for the sharp observa-
tion of Margaret Olley’s
“Donald Reading” (seen before)
and the charm of Paul Hae-
fliger’s girls from the early
Picasso; for the promise of
paintings to come in Russell
Drysdale’s children emerging
from a desert of sepia and in
John Passmore’s empty, inky but
lively “Prawn Boat”; for
Margaret Preston’s wildflowers,
John D. Moore’s meticulous
anatomy of Sydney Harbor, and
for such oddities as Elaine
Haxton’s fairytale owl with the
glaring headlamps and Frank
Hodgkinson’s hairy head of a
child.
* ❖ &
Pottery
In David Jones’ Little Gallery
there are pots, coffee-sets and
the like by David and Hermia
Boyd: some of the bowls etched
strikingly in an effect of black-
and-white with Kleelike motifs
from the signs of the zodiac ;
others elegantly striped ; and one
of the coffee-sets in a curious,
gunmetal color and another
sharply decorated with stylised
cats and birds: all work that
should appeal to anyone who
likes a touch of life in his (or
her) crockery.
Stage and Music
Julius Katchen
In his first two Sydney recitals
American pianist Julius Katchen
demonstrated that, in addition to
a technique of resourcefulness
and facility, he has a distinct
feeling for big works. He in-
cluded three Titans in his first
programme.
The Sonata Op. 111, the last
of Beethoven’s 32, is a challenge
to the intellect rather than to
mere digital command. The
changes of mood and tempo are
many and swift —and often with-
out apparent cogency—and the
composer stretches the sonata-
form outside its usual bound-
aries. Movements flow one into
another without pause, there is
a peculiar blending of sonata
with fugue, strongly reminiscent
of Bach’s polyphonic style. Kat-
chen’s reading was uniformly
strong, the emotion in the
beautiful arietta most compel-
ling-
Brahms’s Sonata in F. Minor,
Op. 5, written when Schumann’s
“young eagle” was trying his
already-strong pinions, is of
symphonic proportions. From
the bold exordium which opens
it the pianist moved through its
five movements incisively, evok-
ing the lyrical qualities of its
folklike themes, building
climaxes of fine strength, piling-
up thick chords in the bass and
working with craftsmanlike ease
on the intricate figurations which
bind the recurring arpeggios.
“Pictures at an Exhibition,”
one of the most ingeniously de-
vised pieces of scene-painting in
literature for the keyboard, is a
severe test of the executant’s
ability to sustain pure sonority—
a necessity due to Moussorgsky’s
inspired use of doubled chords.
The sonority was duly achieved,
but dynamics were inadequate
in the short, incisive “Cata-
combs” section, while the episode
of the two Polish Jews lacked its
full quota of subtlety.
Two Fantasies were included
in the second programme: the
D Minor of Mozart (K. 397), an
exquisite miniature full of lyrical
episodes, and the C Major of
Schumann, his finest work for
the instrument. Notable features
in the playing were the impas-
sioned rhapsody injected into
the first movement, and the
splendidly-sustained vigor of the
March.
The “Appassionata” Sonata,
if not the “tempest of the soul”
that Beethoven intended it to be,
was, in the first and last move-
ments, of at least cyclonic
violence.
♦> ❖
Borovansky
The language of the leg found
its fullest expression during the
second-innings of the Boro-
vansky Ballet at Melbourne Her
Majesty’s in “Symphonie Fan-
tastique,” the choreographic
symphony in five acts which the
company’s ballet-master, Kiril
Vassilkovsky, attached to Ber-
lioz’s music.
“Attached” is the right word.
Berlioz was a musical man of
violence. He resigned from the
medical profession by the sud-
den process of jumping out of
the window of a hospital during
an operation, and he subse-
quently founded an orchestra (to
play his own music) so huge, it
was said, that it could be heard
not only in the concert hall but
all over Europe.
Mr. Vassilkovsky hasn’t taken
Berlioz as his model but a young
musical no-hoper of unhealthily
sensitive nature, who, having
been given-up by a young lady,
takes opium—not enough of it
to cause death, but enough to
give him nightmares in which
his unconscious finds violent
expression.
There is a peaceful moment
in the third movement in which
a pastoral idyll is enacted while
the musician sits on a stump and
contemplates Nature’s beauties.
However, he soon starts wonder-
ing again what his girl is up to,
and, instead of this putting
erotic or musical images into
his head, he dreams of murder.
He is condemned to death and
led to the scaffold, where his
head is chopped off and he wakes
to find himself amidst the
obscene rites of a Witches’
Sabbath to which the beloved
contributes some of the vulgar-
est dances. He is finally carried
off by monsters, witches, ghouls,
vampires, spectres, furies, monks
and devils to be flung onto the
Eternal Dustheap.
Whatever he thought he was
doing, the choreographer tells the
opposite of Berlioz’s story, but
he paints an effective portrait of
the romantic noodle for which
Paul Grinwis, tall, pale, thin,
dolorous and as elastic as an
animated ramrod, was eminently
suited.
♦> ❖
“Simon and Laura”
At Sydney Royal, this comedy
by Alan Melville is a pleasant
froth about an actor and his
actress-wife who, continually
barneying with each other, are
on the verge of separation when
they are offered a handsome
8.8. C. contract to appear on a
TV series as the ideal married
couple.
Ginger Rogers and Fred Allen
did something very similar on
the screen a year or two ago,
and what they did with commer-
cial radio was quite devastating ;
Mr. Melville’s occasional jabs at
the 8.8. C. and TV are much
more mellow, though none-the-
less amusing for that, and some
of the best laughs of the evening
come from the second act,
wherein the TV gang moves
with all its paraphernalia into the
home of Simon and Laura.
Mr. Melville is rather hard-
put to sustain the brittle comedy
of the first two acts and has to
wind-up in the third with a cer-
tain amount of sentimental
make-do. Still, it gets by, and
the audience seemed happily
satisfied with the ultimate fates
of Simon, Laura, the 8.8. C. pro-
ducer and the loveily script-
writer.
The most distinctive thing
about the performance was the
general and smooth excellence of
the production and of the acting.
Googie Withers and John
McCallum take the leading roles
very pleasantly; Miss Withers,
in particular, animating her part
of the business with considerable
charm. Charles Tingwell, Wil-
liam Rees, Letty Craydon,
Collins Hilton and Bettina
Welch are all very good indeed
—so good, in fact, that one
wonders why the standard they
set isn’t maintained all the year
round on the Sydney stage.
Talkies
“Underwater” (Sydney
Plaza): Of incidental interest in
this opus about aqua-lung divers
searching for treasure in a
sunken galleon is the fact that
Gilbert Roland has no trouble
in opening doors which have
been submerged for centuries in
saltwater. Otherwise there is
nothing of note, except, perhaps,
that Jane Russell (who fills a
most revealing swimsuit with
much more aplomb than she
does her role) survives the dread-
ful menace of a beautifully-
made rubber shark.


The Joker
by Jack
Lusly
CASEY so enlivened work
on the “Post-Record” that
it’s cheering to remember
him. A bom newsman,
his stuff had a gutsy dash and
sparkle that was its warp and
weft and survived any but the
harshest handling by subs. In
an emergency he could sit in any-
body’s chair, and the morning’s
paper be none the worse for the
substitution.
Casey’s ability was untainted
by ambition; he was happy in
the hurly-burly daily hunt for
news; and made no enemies,
despite the fact that he was
known to indulge in peculiar
practical jokes. Spontaneous and
almost . involuntary, Casey’s
stunts were conceived in a flash
and carried to varying conclu-
sions, unknowingly, by other
hands; often by the sufferers
themselves.
Because of his lack of execu-
tive ambition Casey had been
called a drifter; but he drifted
on a tide of excellence. When
you visited his flat you found
good books filling his library and
good food and drink on his
table. He shut his ears to any-
thing but good music ; and good
writing was the structure of his
work.
Casey’s history was a string of
unobtrusive incidents always
good for a laugh, and Casey got
a lot of fun from telling them.
Such as the time, years earlier,
when the “Post” and “Record”
merged to become the “Post-
R e c o r d.” Most staff-men
received two letters, one of dis-
missal and the other of re-
engagement on the new paper.
Casey picked up his mail in the
“Post’s” reporters’ room and
ripped open the first envelope. It
contained the notice of dismissal.
Impetuously pocketing the
remaining correspondence un-
read he grabbed his hat and
went out to celebrate the end
of his world.
A week later, fumbling un-
certainly through his pockets in
the hope of finding perhaps a
crumpled and miraculously over-
looked ten-bob note, Casey
pulled out an unopened letter
and read of his engagement with
salary-increase on the merger-
daily. With this to restore his
credit he embarked on a week
of wassail to mark his resurrec-
tion. Then he reported for duty,
explaining what had happened.
That was a good many years
before I met him for the first
time.
Between five and six in the
afternoon most “Post-Record”
newshands repaired to a favored
near-by pub for a thirst-quencher
and breather before the pres-
surised toil of the evening. A
newcomer, I was being made
known to a few of them when
the circle widened to admit
Casey.
He’d come in out of a sudden
summer doWnpour. A wide felt
hat was pushed carelessly back
on his head, and water dripped
from his long loose-flapping
raincoat. A thin, wiry, elfin-look-
ing fellow, perhaps forty. Thick
black hair flopped on a quizzical
grid of wrinkles, pale above the
dark eyebrows. A thin, wide,
toothy grin ran river-like be-
tween sharp-pointed nose and
chin. The bony shoulders held
a suspicion of stoop, and he
filled his clothes like a coat-
hanger.
Casey’s grin acknowledged a
chorus of varied greetings as he
gained the bar a shade unstead-
ily, hooked his elbows on it and
hung there like a bat.
“We-ell! Speechless! ”
“He certainly looks it.”
“And right on top of the
world.”
“Half his luck.”
“Bessie, I love you,” said
Casey.
“Beer, Mr. Casey?”
LASS in hand, Casey turned
and pointed his face at us
affectionately.
“Had a wonnerful day-off,”
he said. “And got ’nother one
tomorrow. Two wonnerful days-
off.” A gay, nasal voice, and not
unpleasant. Made you want to
laugh with him.
“Tuesdays an’ Wednesdays
Casey belongs t’ me,” he gurgled
on. “ ‘Pos’-Record’ and Sir
William, S’Will, S’Bill can go
bowl a hoop. Wonnerful feeling.
’Nother beer, Bessie. Listen,
Bessie, let’s see a show t’night.
Know a good show?”
Some worried looks were ex-
changed. Blanning, a sub.,
stepped forward and turned the
reveller to face him.
“Forget about Tuesdays and
Wednesdays, Casey,” he said.
“This is Thursday, and in twenty
minutes you’re acting chief sub.!
Remember?”
“Nonsense, nonsense”
“You’re all mixed up, Casey.
’Struth, man, it’s Thursday and
twenty-to-six! ”
“Yes! Smarten-up, Casey—
ask Bessie, there.”
“A beer, Bessie darling, and
name the day.”
“It really is Thursday, Mr.
Casey.”
“Bessie ! Would you join them
against me?”
“Look, Casey old boy, go and
ask the publican; ask anyone.
There’s your s.p. bookie—ask
him.”
Casey wandered away in the
smoky babble of the crowded
bar, made inquiries, got amused
replies, and returned.
“A plot! Plotters! All in it.
Causing confusion —pranks . . .”
They took Casey up the back
way in the goods-lift, hot-and-
cold showered him and put him
in the chief sub.’s chair. Copy
had begun to pile up, but Casey,
head in hands, stared unwaver-
ingly at the table for a few
moments like a mesmerised
chicken. The men round the
table stared at Casey.
Suddenly he reached for a
sheet or copy and read it
swiftly.
“Kill this bloody Town Hall
hand-out,” he said, and was
working with a happy precision
that completely belied the report
that had preceded him to the
subs’ room. Relieved laughter
rippled round the big table.
“Casey, you old cow,” said
Blanning.
A very few minutes later the
subs had an unusual visitor. The
door swung open to admit the
managing - editor. Something
about the room’s normality and
quiet industry seemed to surprise
him.
“Er h’m. Good-evening,
gentlemen. Everything going
well, Mr. Casey?”
“Much as usual so far,” said
Casey, turning in his chair.
“Anything special coming up,
Mr. Harrison'?”
“No, no . . . Good-night.” The
door closed behind him.
Casey seemed to find some-
thing funny in the cable before
him. Cables all round the table
became momentarily amusing.
, ~ r ,
Wdl somebody s face be
red! muttered Blanmng.
“It’s crool,” half-sobbed Me-
Kenny. “Crool and unfair to
tittle-tattles.”
XXARRY GREG was a radio
11 gag-writer from the broad-
cast set-up in the “P.-R.” build-
ing, and often spent an off-hour
at night yarning with anyone not
too busy in our reporters’ room,
He was about fifty, short and
thickset, with a deep-lined face
and a mop of grey hair. He
wore loud sports-coats and bow-
ties.
“Funny thing about Casey,”
Harry said a few nights after
I’d joined the paper; “he looks
remarkably like a journalist.
Just try and see him as anything
else.”
I looked across the big room
to the open cubicle where Casey’s
typewriter was drumming and
pinging. The expressions on his
face mirrored the matter under
his racing fingers. His eyebrows
seemed to soar over queries and
plunge on periods. Disgust,
censure, benignity and for a
moment a look of Mephisto-
phelian sadism took their turn
on Casey’s face.
“Get that dead-pan!” said
Harry. “What’s he doing—draft-
ing a leader?”
“He could be doing anything,”
said a long sad fellow perched
on the corner of a near-by table.
“Did my police rounds for a
week once; and damn me if
he didn’t witness that gun mur-
der in Carlo’s Cafe! Just hap-
pened to be there having a
midnight pie-an’-peas! ”
“Jones, my dear old funereal
friend,” said Harry, “I wish
you’d keep that sorrow secret
—l’ve heard it so often I’m
word-perfect. ‘And Casey had
Hardtman with him, camera and
all ■’ ”
“Ah, don’t turn the knife in
wound,” pleaded the
mourner-for-lost-glory
a weird bloke,” said
young Howe-Burton, carefully
puckering his fair, film-star face.
SI Didn . t he ever married or
anything?”
“Yes,” said Harry, “he mar-
rjed early in life. Married that
rattling machine and his job. All
he’ll ever be married to.”
Jo Browne came in then;
walked over to her desk and sat
down. She fished some notes and
a packet of smokes from her
handbag and put them beside
her machine. She was one of
the most beautiful girls I’d seen,
and it wasn’t skin-deep beauty.
A trim vision with turbulent
red-gold hair, intelligence and
something more stirring in the
calm, dark-lashed eyes, humor
in the generous mouth. In the
dingy night-time disorder of the
reporters’ room she flamed like
a torch.
“Marriage!” Harry Greg was
saying. “Look at Jo over there,
and try not to think about
marriage! You know, Smithy,”
to me, “she’s got §o much of
everything these young fellers
are scared to go near her. Left
on her own half the time.
Amazing, isn’t it? Gawd, she’s
a lovely thing. Hey, there, Ugly!
How’s things ?”
“Hullo, Harry,” Jo laughed
back. “Pretty good, thanks.”
Young Howe-Burton drifted
over and sat on Jo’s desk and
accepted one of her smokes.
Harry turned to me and pushed
his theme a bit further.
“Amazing in a newspaper-
office —girls like Jo—looked on
as reporters. Nothing more.
Different in radio or stage.”
“I suppose on radio or stage
they’re heard and seen,” I
hazarded. “Playing parts, being
women, their sex is important
and played-up. Affects the atti-
tude of the men towards them.
Here they’re getting news or pic-
tures —a pretty sexless job.”
“Bah!” said Harry with feel-
ing. “Ruthless machinery of the
press. Wish I were twenty years
younger! You know, Casey
takes Jo out for a beer when he
thinks of it. So do I. Casey and
Greg ! It wouldn’t occur to these
young feliers that a hardworking
reporter like Jo might like a
drink occasionally. Might like
to be invited out for lunch. I’ve
got work to do.” The clock had
caught his eye. He gave his
quick, deep-creased grin and
raced for the lift.
Typewriters were still rattling
in the big room and adjacent
cubicles. Casey had gone.
Heads were bowed over late
copy in the glassed-in chief-of-
staff’s sanctum. My piece was
finished. I had a last look at Jo,
working with easy concentra-
tion ; then walked across the
growing litter on the floor to
my own cubby-hole, got my hat
and went down in the lift to the
cool, neon-lit canyon of the
street. The greatest pleasure,
working on a daily, is walking
out into the street when your
job i§ done. That “Village
Smithy” feeling.
About five in the afternoon
a week later, Casey came into
my room, wide-brimmed hat on
the back of his head and elfin
eagerness on his face.
“Come on, Smithy,” he
grinned at me, “Let’s take Jo
out for a beer.”
jIjROM the door of the
reporters’ room he panto-
mimed across at Jo, who gave
a big smile and waved okay.
We walked to a quiet place a
block along the street. It was
airy and pleasant inside. We sat
at a window-table and ordered
three beers.
“Thanks, fellows,” Jo said.
“This is very good of you.”
“Quiet, woman, I’m concen-
trating,” said Casey. He was gaz-
ing at her like a yogi and inhal-
ing deeply. Suddenly he relaxed.
“Ah-h-hh! Refreshed in mind
and body!” he exclaimed.
“May I speak yet?” asked Jo.
“I may as well tell you,
Smithy,” said Casey, ignoring
her, “that Jo is the elixir of life.
The cure for all ills and anxieties
that assail the human frame. If
he gaze on her and take six
deep breaths the sickest man is
well! Remember that. There
may come a time”
“I can remember that
already! ”
“There may come a time,
Smith, when that knowledge
will save your life! ”
“Do shut up, Casey. Here’s
the best!”
“I’m looking forward to my
next indisposition. I can hardly
wait.”
“You, too, Smithy—it goes on
all the time. It’s ridiculous.”
“Jo’s right, Smithy. Stop
pestering her. Here’s health!”
FEAR GOD
Hate snakes and fear them; am afraid before thinking of
sheen
and of slime, the subtle certainty of coil-uncoil,
of glint unpupiled eyes, their alien thought.
Was never beauty in patterns scaled, in warmth
of sunlight seeped so strangely into flex, in warm
and cold. Its sun-drugged laze of length was there,
thick on a red road, rope green and warm red, to make
heart burst, mind dark, eyes plummet; habit hands
to keep the bike from toppling at the glance’s push.
Walked back so firm; to walk the road so firm,
to see that snake was dead, head bashed, and heart
falling from some height found me in sunlight on a soft
dirt-powdered road. Not touch snake, not yet, so soon,
but conscious of some difference in my eyes.
Talked once with William, called Old William;
a man with a face like a problem, so many wrinkles,
and lips drawn in, with blue sunk-English eyes,
the whole flesh hanging, to reveal the bone; a man
they called Old William, legs like sticks, tongue loud
as a chimney, more long-winded; called the windbag.
A man for talking. Older than I am. More
to be said. The day we walked talking, all sun and clear
light,
was trembling on legs like reeds as he held high
the snake he’d killed. Black brute, he said, black brute.
When I was young 1 killed these for my living;
they put the fear of God, of God in me.
No mirror needed then for I could tell
we two had not a difference in our eyes.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


INTRODUCING TO ALL
FARMERS AND BUILDERS
THE WILLIS "STANDARD" LEVEL
WORLD WIDE SALES
THIS IS A MUST FOR ALL
No extras to buy complete with
Carrying'Case, Tripod, Target,
Staff and Instructions.
Irrigation
and
Drainage
Foundations
and
Contour Work
Horizontal
£l7 FREE ON RAIL
WILLIS INDUSTRIAL
SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.,
31 Queen St., Melbourne.
Of
*7.
,
Come and take a closer look
at the brilliant
((UK
4-CYL. WYYERN
6-CYL. VELOX
We extend this invitation to those people who know and appreciate
fine cars. For Vauxhall styling was never so distinctive . . . interiors
never so rich . . . Vauxhall ride and running never so quiet, smooth
and steady. And in the exciting new Vauxhalls you will find the
motoring enjoyment that comes with ample power, generous room
and effortless handling ease. Enhancing all this is the knowledge
that here you have a truly distinguished car without high cost.
See your local Vauxhall Dealer NOW !
The beautiful new Vauxhall interior seats
5 or 6 in comfort . . . features colourful
new styling, improved driving vision, and
handsome new instrument panel as
practical as it is beautiful.
Vauxhall features integral body con-
struction, controlled synchromesh
gears, ‘balanced-ride’ suspension,
shockproof re-circulating ball steer-
ing. Both the vivid 23.44 h.p. O.H.V.
6 cylinder Velox and the thrifty
15.63 h.p. O.H.V. 4 cylinder Wyvem
engines are further improved with
chromed top rings for longer bore life.
Ask your Vauxhall dealer about the
G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase
arrangements. Ask your dealer , too ,
about the built-for-Vauxhall Air
Chief" Car Radio.
PRICES: Wyvern £920; Velox £9BO. (All Drices plus tax.)
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-H OLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall dealers throughout Australia VP3/33.
It was half-an-hour of non-
sense ; the kind of nonsense that
makes you wonder why you’re
laughing. Refreshing nonsense.
Jo talked in short bursts, with
animation, hardly interrupting
Casey’s grinning flow of foolery.
There was nothing remote about
her. I decided they were both
top company.
Back in the office I sat in my
room and thought for a minute
or two. Casey was guiding-uncle
to half the staff, and it was likely
enough that Jo was included
under his wing as a matter of
course. It was just that the
scene down the street had been
one of unexpected harmony and
understanding. Like father and
daughter? Uncle and niece? No.
Different. Aw, what’s wrong
with you, Smith? Casey’s dif-
ferent. Jo’s different. Anything
to do with them would have to be
different. Idle thoughts. I got
on with my work.
Strikes were looming on the
waterfront about this time, and
a crucial meeting called by
union leaders was barred to the
press. A violent clash between
factions seemed likely, and un-
usual precautions were being
taken to keep the donnybrook
“in the family.” A reporter and
photographer went along to pick
up what crumbs fell their way
on the outer, and Casey was sent
to have a crack at the inside.
“Watch you don’t get a black
eye, Mister,” Stackerton, the
editor, told him.
Casey saw and heard the
whole of the proceedings, and
his front-page lead story in the
morning was lifted high out of
the ruck with a leavening of
humor. The whole paper was
good that morning. The leader-
writers and cartoonist had risen
to the occasion,* and Hardtman
had got a crackerjack picture of
the burly, dethroned strike-
leader hanging onto his hat in
a gust of wind before the meet-
ing. The “hat” picture went on
the front page beside Casey’s
piece.
Stackerton and the news-
editor felt so uplifted that dur-
ing the afternoon they took
Casey out to buy him a beer at
the pub, and an hour later
invited him to come along and
join their club. The club sec-
retary showed surprise when
Casey filled in “Occupation” as
“Reporter.”
“First ‘reporter’ to join us,
sir,” he said. “All our other
press-members are ‘journalists.’ ”
“Aha!” said Casey. “They’re
being modest.” To Casey
reporting was among the finest
of the arts.
time Casey plucked me
out of my cubicle to “take
Jo for a beer,” Jo showed signs
of distress.
“I’m awfully sorry, fellows,”
she said. “I’d love to, of course
—l’ve promised Tom Howe-
Burton to go for a spin in his
new car. He’s terribly proud
of it.”
“With you riding on the
handlebars I’d be proud of a
push-bike,” Casey grinned down
at her over the desk. “I hear it’s
a helluva fast car, Jo. Don’t
do anything to upset him!”
“I’ll be very careful, Casey,”
she said, the big smile there
again.
Hardtman and Sharpe, the
cartoonist, were waiting for the
lift, bound for steak-and-
spaghetti at the Napoli. We went
along with them. Hardtman was
a tall streak of a man with a
brown hat, brown, lean
face, and always wore a
brown suit. Sharpe called it a
good beer-colored ensemble.
Hardtman never moved without
his camera, and carried a tiny
spare camera in his coat pocket
in case of accidents. Sharpe was
a small, neat fellow with a lot
of fair hair brushed back
smoothly on his head, a hooked
nose, slightly protuberant blue
eyes and an air of permanent
curiosity. He was one of the best
billiard-players in the city. He
smoked small cigars.
The only space at the Napoli
was at a long table half-occupied
by a group of the “Post-
Record’s” top men. We filled up
the spare end and Guiseppe took
the order.
The talk at the other end of
the table was of travel. The
“Post-Record” and its allied
papers sent bright men overseas
in rotation for experience, and
this was a bunch of “those who’d
been before” welcoming home
the latest globetrotter, who
seemed to have an endless stream
of overseas experience to get off
his chest. The others were get-
ting in a Stockholm flight, Lon-
don nightclub or New York
interview whenever he paused
for breath. As the meal pro-
gressed Casey’s interest showed
signs of wear.
We were mopping up the last
elusive strands of spaghetti when
the gallivanting gourmets
switched to “Who’ll go next?”
One of the nearest turned to
Casey.
“Have you heard any whis-
pers?” he asked.
“No,” said Casey, achieving
a dreamy grin. “But I daresay
they’ll keep on sending the
blokes who need broadening.”
In the short, hard silence,
Casey reached for his hat and
got to his feet. He hesitated, a
thoughtful look on his face, then
rested his hands on the table and
leaned over.
“I’ve heard no whispers,” he
told them. “But, come to think
of it, I did hear the tail-end of
a conversation on Monday. Sir
William was muttering some-
thing to Harrison about ‘Lon-
don’ and ‘Pilkington.’ That’s all.
Mightn’t mean a thing.”
“Hell!” exclaimed Jason, sit-
ting at the head of the table.
“It’s fantastic; but it could
tie-up.”
“He’s been doing a lot of stuff
on Royalty,” said someone else.
“And the big show’s on over
there shortly”
We moved out of hearing.
Down in the street Casey’s meal-
time depression had vanished.
He was bubbling over. Sharpe
laughed aloud. Hardtman strode
along shaking his head sadly.
“You’re a no-hoper, Casey,”
he said.
“You wouldn’t spoil an old
man’s fun?”
“No-o-ooo! Might even kick
it along a bit.”
PILKINGTON had joined the
paper as a gossip-writer on
the strength of his “connec-
tions” ; and had written some
rather cloying articles about the
Royal family which hinted at
special and intimate knowledge
on the writer’s part. Royal affairs
being very much in the news at
the time, the stuff had a good
following. One piece mentioned
that the writer had been Major
Pilkington. Casey, after some
private research, discovered that
Pilkington hadn’t given his full
rank. It should have been
sergeant- major.
Casey had divulged this with
relish in trusted company,
describing Pilkington, inter alia,
as “an impostor on probation.”
Casey rarely indulged in per-
sonal sniping, but balloons made
him itch for a pin. The way
he saw it, Pilkington’s whole
structure collapsed with the one
deception.
This victim was portly,
pompous and thirty-five. An
unctuous writer. Very soon after
the spaghetti-dinner he began to
hear whispers that made him
prick up his ears. A big news-
paper is an echoing-gallery of
whispers. The Pilkington whisper
began to sound like the voice
of authority, and people relay-
ing it did so in the best of faith.
The conceit of the portly
poseur made him credulous, and
he began to drop hints himself.
“Matter of fact, I happened
to hear something not con-
firmed, of course—but just a
chance I may pop over to Lon-
don —cover-the-Wedding sort of
thing.”
“Good luck to you! Matter of
fact, I heard somebody say
something only the other day
about your name cropping
up . .
True to his undertaking to
kick it along a bit, Hardtman
burst into Pilkington’s room,
camera at the ready.
“Hold it just like that, Pilk.
old feller looking up, still
thoughtful, about to welcome a
visitor!” Flash!
“What on earth?”
“Don’t ask me —they get these
bugs. Memo on my desk, that’s
all. Bye-bye.”
In his flat Pilkington was “on
standby.” Half-packed and all
set to come to readiness and
depart at short notice. He'd
dropped hints of a cosy little
farewell party. Waiting for the
word of confirmation he was
getting jittery. He admitted this
in the pub one afternoon.
(Continued on next page)
REBUKE TO A DYING ANT ON A TABLE-TOP
I see you struggling there
in the glassy light and bell of the breeze
that occasionally cools
your sticky-knitted wriggling minute knees.
Why did you dare to climb this Everest
to die like a mountaineer upon its crest
not in white-death snow
but patent cough-mixture?
after all;
you could have lived below,
on dry old sunbaked hills of crumbs
and lakes of dew,
for many another hour or so.
N.S.W.
BRIAN ROBSON.


There'll be one
next door tol
you soon!
because
Life is easier with a
o ep°»"
\n«- ‘ a *
LIKE
DEMONSTRATION
I would like a demonstration of
Mobilco Motor Mower at home*
Name
Address.
the* 1
Mobilco it right out in front with its big 98 c.c.
Villiers engine . . . its special clutch which lets
the cutting blades drive without the ground roller
being driven excellent for neat trimming under
trees, around shrubs and along edges . . ..its
splendid performance and absolute ease of
handling. SIX MONTHS GUARANTEE AND YOURS
FOR CASH OR EASY TERMS.
LONG-GRASS CUTTER
Ajguick-tt Rotary Long-Grass
Cutter available at extra cost.
Heal for cleaning up back
yards and neglected grass
growth. Drives from power
take-olf pulley.
MOBILE
INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT
LIMITED
50-54 SILVERWATER
RD., AUBURN.
Phones: YX 1244-5
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Ettablished 1878-
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N* E- MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
“Well, why don’t you go and
see the big boy?” someone sug-
gested. “You know the line he
hands out: ‘My door is always
open.’ Tell him you need to
know a definite departure-date if
he really intends to send you,
so you can arrange your affairs,
He’ll appreciate your position.”
“By jove, yes! I’ll do that,
Should have thought of it
myself. Thanks, old boy.”
Later that night it was a
stunned, shaken and deflated
Pilkington who trod trance-like
through the reporters’ room to
the sanctuary of his cell. For
a fortnight he worked behind
a closed door and was rarely
seen.
The big boy was no fool.
(Casey, too, had occasion to
interview him ; but emerged in
good humor.
SHORTLY after this we again
“took Jo for a beer,” and
Harry Greg came with us. Casey
was in his ordinary everyday
bubbling-over good spirits. Get-
ting to know him better, I’d
noticed an odd thing about his
face. He laughed only with the
bottom half of it. There was a
high gaiety in the irrepressible
toothy grin and the sharp dark
eyes, while his wrinkled fore-
head, monkey-like, stayed grave.
The mobile eyebrows divided
his expression.
We went along the block to
the same place, Scotty’s Bar
they called it, and sat at the
window-table. Through the
thick glass you could see the
silent bustle of the street. Harry
Greg was asking me how I
liked the job. Jo was laughing
and getting something off her
admirable chest to Casey.
<lv „ . a .. ..
. You stop floating these
todies What possessed you to
s tlat Pffkmgton thing.
Obviously, the notion of
starting it possessed him,” said
Greg. “It’s a kind of epilepsy,
The fit comes on him
and he just can t help it.
Like incendiarism, klepto-
mania’
“Mountains from molehills,”
said Casey. “And your
psychiatry’s shocking. Aha! The
beer! Thanks, Scotty. How’s the
bambino?”
“Got her back home yester-
day, thank ye, Cecil, an’ doin’
real well!”
Scotty’s dour face cracked in
a split-second greeting to us,
and he moved away, followed by
shouts of approval from Jo and
Greg and a snake-like stare from
Casey.
“Is Cecil your name?” I
asked.
“Some subversive huckster
convinced Scotty, years ago,
that Cecil’s the name,” said
Casey. “And Scotty’s convic-
tions are unshakable.”
“But it is his name, Smithy,”
cried Jo. “Isn’t it, Harry! It’s
his Achilles heel! ”
“Of course it’s his name,”
said Greg. “One of the many
defects in his character is that
he attaches some detrimental
significance to it.”
“What’s wrong with ‘Cecil’?”
I asked. “Think of Cecil Rhodes,
And the Cecils of old England
|p n B an< * noble lineage”
*'l* doesn’t go with ‘Casey,’ ”
sa M Casey. “It’s a plot to belittle
’■> a furtive whispering cam-
paigu- My enemies have struck
shrewdly. A certain Foreign
Power . .
I discovered some time later
that his front name was Dermod.
J° had to leave us early. As
she stood to go Greg broke
softl Y into song. That old
music-hall ditty about “Dorothy,
Dorothy Dean” and the “man in
his flying machine.”
It really does seem to fly,”
saK * “But Tom handles it
very well. ’Bye, fellows.” We
watched her go out.
Tes, Tom’s making great
pr°& reas » said Greg. “What
y° u inm, Casey?”
* think he’s making great
P r °2 ress because Jo needs com-
P an y her own age,” said Casey,
As to Howe-Burton, at pre-
sent.. J l6 doesn’t show lasting
fl ua hties. May turn out all
ri B^ lt -. Work shows sparks of
P romi s e - Unstable tendency in
himself. Jo could do better.”
shrewd and serious Casey
... _ . _ _
. mis her first flutter? I
e< h It seemed a silly ques-
„
No,” said Casey. A few
’ when Jo y barel
eighteeQ s she was engaged \
hell of a fine young bloke. Their
car turned over down near the
beach. Killed him, and Jo had
six months in hospital. Left
her with a horror of riding in
cars. She’s often a bundle of
nerves on jobs in office cars,
Our drivers take it easy with
her.”
“You know, Casey, I never
heard that before,” said Greg,
“Before you came.”
“What about this tearing
about in Howe-Burton’s racing-
job?”
“I don’t know how good
Howe-Burton is for Jo,” Casey
said. “But his bloody high-
speed juggernaut has crashed
her through a mental barrier
she’d built up. That car’s the
best thing that ever happened
to Jo. I could bust a bottle of
bubbly on its big red snout.”
Casey was grinning again,
“Time for another beer?”
That explained a lot about
Jo. And it told me a lot about
Casey.
'THE Lord Mayor was leaving
for America to float a loan
for the city. Howe-Burton, on
city rounds, was sent to ask the
Town Hall’s locum tenens
what works he planned to push
ahead during his chief’s absence.
Howe-Burton got mixed up in
a farewell celebration at the
civic centre and came back to
the office that night long over-
due and hilariously under the
weather. A couple of reporters
got up from their work and
came over to quieten him. Jo
slipped quickly from behind her
desk.
“Quiet, dear, please she said.
“Have you got your story?”
“Pocketful of story,” said
Howe-Burton loudly. “Got
whole thing i’ m’ pocket.” He
was weaving about and looking
pretty conspicuous. The high
lift before the pass-out.
“Stand still, for Gawd’s sake!
Here it is ; I’ve got it. Jeez,
what a mess!”
“Got his stuff?” Casey had
popped out of his cubicle.
“Good. Get him out of sight.
He’s okay, Jo. Benny—sit him
down in Sharpe’s room. Sharpe’s
“The flies certainly ruin one's complexion.”
gone home. Stay there for a bit.”
Exit Howe-Burton with Jo and
Benny.
“Look at his shorthand,
Casey. Can you read it?”.
Casey grinned at the crumpled
heap of paper on the desk.
“Some party,” he said. “It
must mean something, though.
I’ll have a go at it if you like.”
“You’re welcome.”
It was an important story, and
it was well placed in the morn-
ing’s paper at the top of page
three under a three-column
head. It read so well I thought
Casey’d invented the content.
“Casey about?” Howe-
Burton asked when he came in
that afternoon. Wants to say
“thanks,” we thought.
“Look, Casey,” Howe-Burton
said. “About that Town Hall
story —you got one fact wrong.”
“There, there, sonny,” Casey
said. “Run along, now.”
“I’d have felt like smacking
him,” I told Casey.
“Not while the speed treat-
ment’s going on. Mustn’t upset
’em,” he said.
“That louse couldn’t take an
upset.”
“How right you are! ”
“I’ll see you on my evening
rounds, Nurse Casey.”
I didn’t know whether to be
glad or sorry that Jo had missed
hearing Howe-Burton’s grati-
tude.
Later the handsome youth did
make an apology. Hangover
after the Town Hall party. Not
himself. Sorry. Handsomely
accepted. He went so far as to
ask Casey’s advice. There was
an opening on a London daily.
He’d airmailed an application
accompanied by a good recom-
mendation and a couple of
letters of introduction which he
felt might clinch it. He under-
stood Casey had worked in
London. Did Casey think the
post should be grabbed if
offered? Casey certainly thought
it should be grabbed; and good
luck to him.
CJHARPE’S room was a
haven. In there you could
sit in the worn old “visitors’
chair” for a quiet smoke and a
yarn remote from the racket of
the news-rooms. Sharpe was
much imposed-upon. Casey and
I were imposing on him one
night as he was finishing his
cartoon. There was a long
fluorescent-tube over Sharpe’s
drawing-board, and we were
talking about fluorescent-light-
ing.
“When they were first in-
stalled,” Sharpe said, “a rumor
got about that constant exposure
to them would eventually affect
your sanity.”
“That’s boloney,” said Casey.
“Wish I had one in my room.”
“Sure it’s boloney,” said
Sharpe. “But one man in the
office still believes it. Hibble.”
“Hibble believes in lepre-
chauns,” said Casey. “Do you?”
“No,” said Sharpe.
“Can’t be the fluorescent-
tube, then,” said Casey. “Where’s
Hibble’s room?”
“Cubby-hole up on the radio
floor. Got one of these lights
right over his head like I have.”
“If he believes that about ’em,
doesn’t it worry him?”
“Not any more,” said Sharpe.
“Somebody told him metal
would shield his brain from
fluorescent-rays. When he’s
working up there now he wears
an old Yank steel-helmet.”
“What? Have you seen it?”
“Seen it several times. I
illustrate his musical stuff now
and then. Go up there to talk
about it.”
“Have you met Hibble,
Smithy?”
“Seen him about; haven’t met
him.”
“Come up and meet him.”
We left Sharpe yawning and
stretching and reaching for his
coat.
Hibble was the music critic.
A little man with a big forehead.
He leaned forward when he
walked, and walked with little,
quick steps. He was in his room,
cowering under the Yank helmet
and doing some one-finger
typing. He turned round,
startled, as though we were a
couple of Japs. Casey intro-
duced me to him.
“It’s these lights,” Hibble said
about the helmet.
“Yes. You’ve got to be care-
ful about things like that,” said
Casey. “We still have the old
lights in our department. Naught
to worry about.”
Casey asked him about the
length of his piece for the morn-
ing, and we left him.
Next afternoon we had a
couple of drinks in the pub with
Morgan, the head electrician.
Morgan told Casey it would be
no trouble to plant batteries in
his overalls pocket and light-up
a globe held in his hand.
“I can run the wires inside my
sleeve to the bulb,” he said.
“Can you make it just glow,
then light-up strongly?”
“Yes, we’ll fix that.”
“Okay, Morgan, it’s all
yours.”
I gathered that, in one respect,
Morgan and Casey were birds of
a feather.
“TTOPE we’re not disturbing
you, Mr. Hibble,” Morgan
said. “Just checking for
fluorescent ray-activity outside
the tube. Matter of fact, the boss
said to check every tube in the
building.”
“No, no, not at all. Do go
ahead. I’ve worn this helmet for
quite some time as a pre-
caution.”
Morgan looked concerned.
“I don’t know whether that’s
been wise, Mr. Hibble. But
we’ll soon find out for you.”
Morgan fished a small light-
bulb from his overalls pocket
and held it near the wall of the
little room. It glowed dully.
“It’s showing, Mr. Morgan,”
said his assistant.
“H’m. Yes, there’s a slight
ray-escape here. Nothing much,
perhaps.”
Hibble’s eyes followed the
bulb anxiously. Morgan held it
near the tube. Still a dull glow.
Up near the ceiling. The bulb
went dead. Near the typewriter.
Dull glow again. Near the rim
of Hibble’s helmet, just in front
of Hibble’s eyes . . .
“My God !” squeaked Hibble.
The bulb was lit with a dazzling
brilliance.
“Steady, Mr. Hibble, steady.
We must make absolutely
certain.”
Morgan moved the bulb
slowly up over the crown of the
helmet, around its sides, and
back in front of Hibble’s face.
The room remained flooded with
a death-chamber incandescence.
Morgan moved away till the
bulb again glowed dully, then
went out. He returned it to his
pocket. Hibble had a handker-
chief and was wiping his pale,
damp forehead.
Still silent, Morgan switched-
off the fluorescent-tube. A
corridor-globe twilit the room.
“How long have you been
using the steel-helmet, Mr.
Hibble?”
“Oh, good heavens —about
two months.”
“It’s not only not been a pro-
tection, it’s been absorbing the
rays. Absorbing almost all the
rays in your room.”
“Yes, yes, I saw”
“My assistant will rig-up an
ordinary daylight bulb for you
straight away. You’ll have it in
a few ijiinutes. I think it would
be wise not to mention this to
other people in the building
immediately. Might cause some
panic and interrupt work.”
“Of course. Please tell
me”
“It’s quite possible there’ll be
no lasting effect. You’ve felt
nothing so far?”
“No-no —I don’t think so.”
“Then, if I were you I’d try
and put it out of my mind. Go
on working under the fresh light
we’re fixing for you. It’s most
likely that within a week or two
you’ll feel an improvement in
health —a lifting of any mental
depression you may have felt.
D’you mind if we take that
helmet away, Mr. Hibble?”
Casey had picked the right
man for the job and briefed him
well. In the following days
Hibble was noticeably more
buoyant and went happy and


DONT BUY
A NEW COOKER
until you’ve checked the extra value of AGA
A new Cooker is perhaps the most important
purchase you ever make for a home. You need to
be absolutely certain that the model you select will
prove the best investment. What makes AGA a
better investment? This. The AGA is the ultimate
in cooking appliances—it costs less to own than
any other—in time it will pay for itself in fuel
savings.
If you can’t see AGA demonstrated, fill in the
coupon below and we’ll post you a booklet giving
you all the facts.
HERE ARE JUST A FEW REASONS
WHY AGA OFFERS BETTER VALUE:—
•It’s the world’s most economical cooker —it
cannot bum more than the guaranteed small
amount of fuel.
•You can cook for 2 or 10 at the same low cost.
'""roiffiimiiiiHSn
™*SjsSsj!
£IS3
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
51-57 GOULBURN ST.. SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST.. MELBOURNE
113 GRENFELL ST., ADELAIDE
MARGARET 8c ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
MALLOCH BROS.
SO WILLIAM ST.. PERTH
•Provides, at no extra cost, constant 50 gallon
supply of hot water. You enjoy ample hot water
for the laundry, bathroom and kitchen.
•Ready for instant use 24 hours a day—never
goes out.
•The CB model has two ovens—one for roasting
—one for simmering. Both thermostatically
controlled.
•Even oven heat guarantees fine cooking—just
like a baker’s oven. You can go out for the day
leaving the dinner in the simmering oven.
• AGA-CB has simmering and boiling hot plates.
Boiling plate boils four pints of water in four
minutes.
•Better insulated than any other cooker. Keeps
kitchen warmer in Winter and cooler in Summer.
•Children can’t bum themselves by leaning on it.
• 10 years’ guarantee means that actually you get
a lifetime of service from your AGA.
i
•Easy terms are available and fuel savings pro-
vide a substantial part of your payments.
•Included in the price of the AGA is a wonderful
-set of cooking utensils specially machine-based.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details
free and without obligation.
NAME
address
SB/2
unhelmeted about his work. And
the lighting in Casey’s cubicle
was much improved.
TTOWE - BURTON got the
London job. At a farewell
gathering in the reporters’-room
Stackerton made a little speech
and presented the lucky fellow
with a travelling-bag from the
staff.
Stackerton said he’d been
given permission, on this occa-
sion, to make an announcement
which gave him great pleasure.
He announced Howe-Burton’s
engagement to Jo. He under-
stood the engagement had be-
come effective that very after-
noon. And because he believed
that very shortly Jo would leave
the “Post-Record” for the wed-
ding in London he felt very
much like a father giving a
daughter away. His closing
remarks were lost as the women
swooped on Jo with shrieks of
excitement. Howe-Burton was
suitably pump-handled.
Jo broke away and came over
to Casey, who kissed her on the
tip of her nose and gave his con-
gratulations.
“Could I see you fellows at
Scotty’s tomorrow?” she asked.
“It’ll be calming for me!”
“Deeply hurt as we are by
that remark, we’ll be there, my
dear,” said Casey.
Apart from the flash of cold
fire on her finger, she was the
same warm, laughing Jo, sitting
at the window-table in Scotty’s
Bar.
“You’re quiet, Smithy,” she
said.
“I’m trying to be ‘calming*’ ”
I said.
“Well, stop it at once,” said
Jo. I stopped it.
Harry Greg had on a louder
sports-coat than usual and an
even more flamboyant bow-tie.
Special occasion, he said.
“What would you wear to the
wedding?” asked Casey.
“My wardrobe has hidden
reserves,” Greg threatened. He
was holding his beer up to the
light and peering at it.
“What do you see?” asked
Jo.
Greg ran a hand through his
mop of grey hair and the quick
smile creased his face.
“Aw, I just see a couple of
lonely old men,” he said.
Jo had to go.
“Bloody good of her to pop
down here,” I said. “He’s going
in two days.”
“A genuine and significant
gesture,” said Greg.
TO’S letters from Howe-Burton
indicated that everything was
on the top line in London. He
sent back a couple of smart
articles. One was from the Near
East, where he was sent to cover
some trouble. He was on the
up and up. Three months after
his departure he wrote for Jo
to pack up and catch a plane.
For the last time we took Jo
out for a beer.
“Look—l’m crying into my
beer,” said Jo. “I’d often heard
of it, and now I’m doing it!”
“I’ve just caught a look in
Smithy’s eye,” said Casey. “It
means that if he weren’t a man
of irreproachable respectability
he might Lochinvar our Jo for
us.”
“No; you and Greg snatch
her while I get the horses.”
“Please don’t talk about me as
if I weren’t here!”
“And you will call him ‘Cecil,’
Jo, won’t you!” said Greg.
The plane shrank to a silver
glint in the sunset and we drove
back to town.
“Three, Mr. Casey?”
“Bessie, you look more beauti-
ful than ever.”
“Now, why does Jo marry
him?” I said.
“It was with him that she
came good, at about seventy
miles an hour in the car,” said
Casey. “She associates him with
the release and relief from the
mental handcuffs and chastity-
belt she’d been wearing. The
crash, the smashed lover, the
sudden physical frustration, the
lasting shock of her own injuries
-7-all these she’d focused into a
simple horror of riding in cars.
With him she overcame this—
Lord knows why or how, per-
haps it was just then ripe to
burst—and with it went all the
other things. With him she
found freedom, and gratitude as
deep as hers is as near to love
as most people can get.”
“A pretty speech,” said Greg.
“And does he love her?”
“I think he loves himself,”
said Casey.
“Look, Casey,” I said, “your
psychiatric outpourings are be-
ginning to give me a rare insight
into the human soul. Yours, for
instance. I see burning passion
for a secret love.”
“Do tell,” said Greg. “What
is it?”
“Hearing his own bloody
voice!” I said. “And having a
gaping audience at his fumbling
vivisections.”
Greg grinned and said, “Same
again, Bessie. To think I was
about to leave.”
“But, my dear Smith,” said
Casey, “throughout this import-
ant vivisection you’ve been the
audience. Remember? Hanging
on the students’ handrail. Peer-
ing pop-eyed through the glass.
Don’t come busting in. You’re
allowed to gape.”
“He laughs uproariously as he
cuts,” said Greg.
“He’s only cackling,” I said.
“He’s laid an egg.” Casey’s
laughter subsided and his grin
returned to half-stretch. He
wiped his eyes.
“You should water your wit,
Casey,” I said. “Some day you’ll
kill yourself.”
“The beer, the beer,” said
Greg. We picked it up.
“Your trouble, Smithy, you’re
too serious,” said Casey.
“That’s right,” I said. “Given
up toys. Given up playing with
people. Today, for some reason,
you don’t make me laugh.
Better go home and polish the
act.
“Reminds me,” he said, “I’ve
got to go and polish a story.”
He said so-long and went off.
“Wouldn’t surprise me if he
did polish an act,” said Greg.
“He must be about ripe for
another stunt. You’ve been
lucky; you haven’t provoked
anything. Until now.”
“Don’t quite know why I got
hot under the collar,” I said.
“Suddenly he got in my hair.”
“You know, Smithy, I begin
to suspect that today anybody’d
get in your hair,” said Greg.
“Well, ’bye now, I’ve got to
think up some gags. I’ll prob-
ably see you on the wrong end
of Casey’s next one.”
He gave me the old creasy
grin and went. The rest of that
day I kept seeing Jo in the type-
writer. She’d be getting near
Darwin now.
ABIT of talk began to float
round the office about
Darwin. A new man would
have to go there. The “Post-
Record’s” current man had
sweated it out for a longish
stretch and was getting restive.
“Well, I don’t blame him,” I
said to Casey. Casey had come
into my room with Jo’s arrival-
cable from London. Blanning,
the sub., was with me. We got
talking about Darwin.
“I hear they’re likely to pick
an up-and-coming junior for the
job,” said Blanning. “Responsi-
bility - good - for - promising -
youngsters stuff.”
“Damn’ good idea,” I said.
“Personally I hate the sight and
sound of the place. Had two
long stretches there, both disast-
rous. I get a pain just thinking
about Darwin.”
“Let’s see,” said Casey.
“Weren’t you up there for
Walmsey Press? Luggers and
contraband story?”
“If the grin’s about that story,
Casey,” I said, “wipe it off.
Some things are best buried.”
“Is that all you’ve got against
the place?”
“Look, I just don’t like any-
thing about Darwin. It’s where
I don’t have luck. It’s where I
don’t like the work, the town, the
summer climate or the insalubri-
ous sea. It’s even where I got
shot down and had to kon-tiki
home in a rubber dinghy twice.
And, furthermore, it’s where a
man borrowed a brand-new
Saigon-linen suit from me and
that night his house got burned
down.”
“Come, come, you’re just
rationalising,” said Casey. “The
truth of the matter is that you
don’t like Darwin.” He went
out of the room giggling.
“You’ve given him his funny
story for the day,” said Blan-
ning. “He’ll build on that till
he’ll have half the blokes in the
pub howling their eyes out. Ho,
hum. Work to do. See you
later.”
Next morning two or three
people greeted me with “Hear
you know all about Darwin!”
Even the editor was in the joke.
That afternoon he went to the
trouble to telephone me about
it.
“Yes, Mr. Stackerton?”
“Could you come round to
my room, Mr. Smith?”
He asked me to sit down and
pushed the smokes across. He
said a worry had been removed
from his mind. It was only
during a chance-conversation
with Mr. Casey at news-con-
ference he’d learned the “Post-
Record” had a senior man with
long Darwin experience. Up to
that moment he’d been some-
what concerned because very
shortly the Darwin man would
have to handle a serious inter-
national matter centring there.
In this matter sound local know-
ledge would be of considerable
help. No, no, Mr. Smith, you’re
being modest. Very man for
the job. You’ll go immediately,
of course. Good luck!
Well, there was Darwin,
twirling on the wingtip as the
plane turned for a landing.
Boonk! The plane door opened
to a blast of heat and the
passengers filed out. My depart-
ing colleague met me with a
battered, sun-hot jeep. He wore
shirt and shorts, pith-helmet and
a soon-I’m-off grin. On the
drive to town he said he’d stick
around for a week with me
before he left.
I dumped my gear at the hotel
and we drove to the club. A
few introductions and a few
familiar faces. I maintained a
brave front, but with some
effort. The place bores me stiff.
Henton, the man I was reliev-
ing, spent the next few days
bringing me up to date spas-
modically in gaps between
making farewell visits to the club
and homes of friends. I met and
talked to a few men and got the
feeling of the meeting. I spent
most of my time cursing Casey.
And even more bitterly cursing
my own incredible folly in con-
fessing Darwin to him. I gave
Henton a message to convey to
Casey. I’d left too hurriedly to
attend properly to this before.
On his second-last day Henton
brought the jeep to a spectacular
standstill outside the office and
came in through the door at his
second attempt.
“Morning, Smithy, ol’ feller,
h o w s i t goinghowsitgoinghowsit-
going?” he said, and sat with
fair accuracy in the spare chair.
“Got y’r mail here somewhere.
All yours now. Don’ wanna read
it.”
The cable from Stackerton was
apologetic. Translated, he was
sorry to push me around. Gerard
in London had a nervous break-
down in the midst of something
important. Being already in
Darwin I was their nearest re-
placement with the right experi-
ence. Passage had been fixed
on the next plane. Nothing had
been overlooked. There was
even a word for Henton. He
was to hold the fort at Darwin.
I read the cable to Henton,
then put it in his palsied hands.
As I started the jeep a spine-
chilling scream of anguish came
from the office.
I drove to the hotel, made a
couple of phone-calls, packed
and headed for the drome. There
I sent a message off to Casey:
Is your face red ? Lochinvar.
T'jARWIN shrank away below
in the heat-haze and the
motors synchronised into a
steady, lulling drone. I relaxed
back in the big, soft chair and
thought that was a damn’ silly
thing to send to Casey.
Lochinvar. I began to think
more about Jo. It would be
pretty good to see her again in
London. More than good.
Getting drowsy. Dum diddi dum
diddi dum diddi dum. Through-
out the wide border his horse
was the best. Smithy’s got eight-
thousand pulling him west . . .
I woke sometime later to the
sound of my eight-thousand
horses thundering evenly on
each side. I woke with an
urgent wish that the driver of the
chariot would dig the spurs in.
Gerard and his nervous break-
down seemed suddenly to have
dropped out of the picture.
Howe-Burton’s unpleasant face
filled the frame, and, as I rode
the hours west, became increas-
ingly unpleasant.
It began to look like the color-
shot in the “Dorian Gray” film.
Between Singapore and
Karachi it became evident that
if Jo had got herself irretrievably
wedded while this obsolete hunk
of scrap-iron loafed around the
sky, the “Post-Record” would
have another nervous crack-up
on its hands.
With Cairo sinking astern,
the patient pulled himself to-
gether. Came out of a fatalistic
coma. London and reality lay
ahead. To hell with Jo and
Howe-Burton and Casey and
high-altitude pipe-dreams. Little
boy I-want-it-I-want-it stuff.
Leave it alone, Smith. Grow
up. There’s work to do. And
leave that loving couple well
alone.
The weather at the airport was
a thick smear of sleet and smog.
About the first thing I saw
among the waiting people was
Jo’s flaming torch of hair. She
had a little car and had driven
out there to meet me. As she
drove this bug along the greasy
roads to town she plastered me
with questions. I gave half-
stunned replies.
“And how is Casey?”
“Don’t talk to me about
that”
“I wrote him an awfully long
letter a week or so ago, about
Tom and everything”
“Tom? Howe-Burton?”
“That’s all washed-up, of
course. Casey simply cabled me
to meet you. He’s a dreadful
correspondent! ”
Back home months later, when
Casey called round to our flat to
“buy Jo a beer,” he pushed the
old hat back and wagged his
grinning, thin face at us.
“Well, you must expect some
stunts to go wrong,” he said.


La
HOS9*'*Z
M
SSSSja
Wi
sons
iivnyr
9 g&,
Oa
CHATEAU TANOHDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
N.S.W. Agents: TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD. ESTB. 1838
■ CTB
FOUR-CYCLE SACA
by H. Clive
morton
ABOUT the time in a boy’s
life when washing behind
ears becomes voluntary
and hatred of girls grows
less, an interest in the secrets
of things that compress and
explode is born.
“Nick,” said Gilly to his
brother, “how does a chop-
engine work?”
Nick had the impatient
teaching-approach of all in-
spired mechanics. After ten
fruitless minutes of explanation
around a greasy chop-engine, he
clasped his hands to his fore-
head and bellowed, “You pair
of beggars can’t see any further
than the blackheads on the end
of your bugle.”
“We can, too,” protested
Gilly. “How do you expect a
man to understand how an
inlet-valve works if you can’t
see the damn’ thing for grease?”
The sharp edge of his logic
cut across the core of Nick’s
impatience. “Um,” he grunted,
“tell you what, I’ll show you on
the old Indian; at least it s
clean.”
He strode across the yard to
where the motor-cycle-engine sat
at its driving-station by the saw-
bench. “Now,” he began.
“Nick,” I ventured, “would
that engine fit on the frame of
that old motorbike in the
stables?”
“What do you mean, fit on?”
Nick snorted. “It belongs to the
flamin’ thing.” He sat on the
bench. “Used to be a bloody
good bike that,” he remembered.
“Got it secondhand for thirty-
five-bob and a five-pound barra-
mundi. It never let me down,
ever. It was so good I nearly
registered the flamin’ thing
once.”
He shook his head at
the memory of his near-
extravagance.
“Could you get it going
again, Nick?” Gilly inquired
eagerly.
Nick’s face flushed at the
sting of the insult. “ ’Course I
could,” he growled. “Some man
made it, didn’t he?”
“Why don’t you, Nick?” I
asked.
Nick swung his lean face at
me. “If I fixed it, what would
I use to saw-up house-wood
with then?”
“We could get a big load on
the weekend,” Gilly announced.
“Enough to do all the year, and
you could saw it up, and then
you wouldn’t need the engine
for a while and . . .”
“And what the aitch would I
want to get the bike going for?”
demanded Nick.
Gilly’s eyes rose in surprise at
the superfluous question. “For
us,” he said.
Nick leapt to his feet. “Break
it up. Do you think the old
man’s going to let you go charg-
ing round on a motorbike at
your age? You get into enough
strife as it is.”
“We’re nearly fourteen.”
Nick cocked an eyebrow.
“Well, thirteen and three
weeks,” amended Gilly. “Any-
way we only want to ride it
round the farm for practice, so
we’ll know how when it’s time
to get a licence.”
“Don’t feed me the raw
prawn,” exploded Nick. “The
old man wouldn’t hear of it, and
if you think I’m going to muck
around all this weekend fixing-
up a bike for you, you’ve got
another think coming.”
A CTUALLY it didn’t take all
the weekend. The job was
finished by three-o’clock Sun-
day. Nick rode experimentally
up and down the headland a
few times. Gilly and I stood
and watched in a passive
frenzy.
“Give us a go,” pleaded
Gilly.
“Now look here,” Nick said
decisively; “you might have
trapped me into fixing the thing,
but you’re not getting out of
stacking that wood in the tank.
That was the arrangement. And
you needn’t think I’m going to
help with the stacking. Go on,
you two —bore-in.”
Even with the three of us
stacking, darkness robbed us of
a chance to ride the cycle.
“I’ll show you how to ride it
next Saturday,” Nick promised.
The week crawled past like a
turtle with rheumatism . . .
It was always easy to get up
early on Saturday mornings.
On this occasion even the
natural resistance to instruction
had vanished. I cantered past
the sleeping household to the
stables, and realised the house-
hold was not entirely asleep.
Gilly hailed me from the fowl-
house, his voice rich with
misery.
“We got to sweep the fowl-
house first, Nick says, otherwise
no teaching.”
In a month we were both
masters of that type of straight-
backed, wide-armed, lynx-eyed
school of riding the design of
1927 motor-cycles developed.
And we grew to understand
engines. This understanding
was born of curiosity, but
developed through necessity.
There is a world of malfunction
built into the workings of a
1927 cycle.
Even though the delicacy of
registration prevented us from
passing .through town to the
shanghai paradise of the river,
we now had a scope undreamt
of in our unsnobbish pony- and
pushbike-days, in the range of
our stuttering straight-through
exhaust. It was a wonderful
month, marred only by little
nagging doubts at the back of
our minds that things were too
good to last.
YS7E should have recognised
’ ’ the signs when we heard
that Pawpaw had acquired a
racehorse.
Fate, which always conspired
to turn our most innocent and
well-intentioned dealings with
Pawpaw into a nightmare, could
hardly have been expected to
resist the temptation of inter-
fering with a combination as
unusual as Pawpaw and a
racehorse.
There must be a moral some-
where in the passage of events
centring around Pawpaw’s entry
into the world of racing. A
moral, and a commentary on the
twin influence of circumstance
and possibility.
A man named O’Toole, a
canegrower by accident, and a
gambler through racial heredity,
went hopefully and unsuccess-
fully through the three available
avenues of racecourse-revenue.
As a punter he lost £5OO, as a
bookmaker a thousand, and as
a horse-owner his hope and his
reputation for maintaining a
farm free of overdraft. His
reactions to all three were
typical. As an unsuccessful
punter he tore up his betting-
tickets, as a frustrated bookie
he flung his bag in the river,
and as an enlightened owner he
led his horse to a far paddock
to shoot it as a symbol of the
determination bred from his new
knowledge.
Pawpaw, riding home on his
pushbike after unsuccessfully
following a rumor of a dumped
but workable Model B crank-
case, rode straight across his
sights.
“Hi,” said O’Toole, who was
at heart a kindly man.
Pawpaw stopped. There is
that aura of authority surround-
ing a man with a raised rifle.
“Yair,” said Pawpaw agree-
ably.
“Do you want a racehorse?”
inquired O’Toole.
“Aw, yes,” agreed Pawpaw
slowly.
“Here,” said O’Toole. Paw-
paw took the proffered reins.
“Thanks,” he said, and led
the horse away from death and
into our lives.
Nick fell in love with it on
sight. From an inspired
mechanic, dedicated to horse-
power, he changed to an
enthusiastic worshipper of horse-
flesh. Eyes that once only
glinted at the mention of high-
compression cylinder-heads now
followed form-guides, alight
with interest.
Pawpaw was a good business-
man. He led Nick’s enthusiasm
into a partnership for £2o—on
an asset that had cost him
nothing initially.
Gilly and I watched all these
things with disgust and dismay.
Disgust at Nick's fickleness, and
dismay at the frequent. visits
from Pawpaw his fickleness
bought. Pawpaws visits were
embarrassing and dangerous It
was hard to flee to dhe bush
from the house with dignity
when Pawpaw approached.
While we were confident ot
our fleetness with Pawpaw on
foot, Pawpaw, racehorse-
mounted, was a very different
proposition. And though by
now we had accepted as inevit-
able the fact that some day
Pawpaw would have to kill us
to retain his self-respect, we
still harbored a burning desire
to avoid giving him opportunity.
These frequent visits of Paw-
paw made us see the motor-
cycle in a new light.
“By gee,” said Gilly, “a man
will have to look after it now,
and keep it full of petrol all the
time. It’s our only chance if
Pawpaw ever afters us on that
nag.”
I nodded solemnly.
Then Gilly’s father walked
into the shed and dropped a
bombshell. “You young
beggars are using more juice in
that damn’ thing than I use in
the truck all the week cane-
hauling,” he complained. “From
now on I’m giving you a gallon
a week, and that’s all. You
shouldn’t have it at all,” he
offered as a salve.
After a while his rationing had
little effect. There is a great
scope for a siphoning-hose
around a mechanised farm. i
t
/"THERE came a time when I
walked into the stables after
school and saw Gilly gazing into
the cycle petrol-tank with
tragedy in his face.
“What’s up?” I inquired.
“She’s empty,” Gilly intoned
heavily.
I brightened. “Well, let’s go
and milk the truck.”
Gilly sighed. “The old man’s
a wake-up,” he announced.
“He’s locked the petrol-cap on
the truck.”
I cast my eyes around the
shed and smiled. “Well, let’s
hit the chop-engine.”
“He thought of that too —it’s
empty.”
“What about the car?”
“He thought of that too —he
locked it in the shed.”
“Did you try the tractor?”
“Yair.” He indicated a bottle
of petrol with his big toe.
“That’s all that was in the
petrol-tank of that.”
“What about the other tank?”
“That’s power-kerosene.”
“Wouldn’t it go on that?
Tractors do?”
“It might—if we got it hot on
petrol first.” He strode to the
tractor, siphoning-hose in hand.
I took position near the wall,
i
cockatooing for approachers,
and looked out at the figures of
Nick and Pawpaw drawing near.
“Look out,” I whispered.
Gilly flashed me a startled
glance. “Who?”
“Nick and Pawpaw.”
“There’s no time to go bush,”
he decided. “Quick, up into
the loft —they mightn’t see us
there.”
I rushed up the ladder and
draped myself across a rusted
10-20 crankshaft. We heard
voices directly below. The
crankcase threatened to break a
brace of ribs. I eased sideways.
Gilly flashed me a look of
horror. I settled back. to the
torture.
“Then she’s all set,” came
Nick’s voice from below.
“Yair,” said Pawpaw. “Every-
thing’s under control. I saw
the other three jockeys and
they’re right, and I got your
thirty-quid on at four to one.”
“You don’t think anything
can go wrong?” said Nick.
“Not a chance—even our
bloke bet on her, and he’s riding
the flamin’ thing—he ought to
know.” .
“Don’t you think we might
have got longer odds next
Saturday?” ,
“Can’t do. Charlie reckoned
if he had to pull the bloody
thing again it’d break its neck,
reckoned its eye-teeth are facing
back already. You got to
(i Continued on page sv)
ALL HALLOWS EVE
All Hallowa Eve. The angel on the stone
Of Mary Johnson spreads her marble wings;
White crosses like bare boughs find leaf and bloom;
A cherub sings
From his long-frozen heart a joyful hymn.
And hears it chimed by other cherubim.
A red rose cries: “Oh listen to me now.
My cruel dear, for I have come to plead
For Paddy Moore, in whose red heart I grow.”
“Have you indeed?”
The white rose mocks; “Then say to Paddy Moore
That Hannah says the same she said before.”
All Hallows Eve. The boobook owl takes fright
At all the ghosts and hides, moon-eyed with fear:
The foxes, cringing, slink back to the night.
Oh listen! Hear
The sad lost lovers crying: "Are we Dead?”
Twining like clematis in d%rk secret bed.
W . A .
RANDOLPH STOW.


Snowy Scheme Dynamos and Dams
Rearranging the Rivers
By GRAHAM PHILLIPS
r\ USTRALIA spills most of
ri its rainwater into the sea.
fl This amounts to a spill-
ing of money from the
pockets of every one of us.
Divert one gallon of water
inland: a small slice of desert
will bloom with £s. d. Divert
enough gallons and you boost
Australia’s wealth. That means
certain our Snowy
Sim^y‘ 0
Clarence °"
Nature made a poor fist of
Australia’s layout : more rivers
need turning inland like the
Snowy, to swell our bank-
balance instead of the sea. The
sea is not short of water.
Think of the Snowy scheme
as a try-out. Even if you live
on the other side of Australia
you may, then, feel a personal
interest in it. For one of your
SS
century Mountains are being
dTeTat“?peed e so b tha!
Snowy waters may join in
marriage with the western rivers,
On the way they will generate
more power than is now pro-
duced in the whole of Australia
-paying the clergyman, as it
were.
The old Snowy River will
then become as legendary as the
noted horseman who came from
those parts. Science has a short
way with sentiment. What poet
could work himself into a lather
over “The man from Guthega
Project”?
Guthega is first-finished of the
Snowy projects. On your way
up to see it you pass through
another future romantic
casualty: Jindabyne town and
valley. The valley is big and
very beautiful; the town is
small, not so beautiful. Prob-
ably they’ll make a better job
of the town when they shift it.
When the shift does take
place I hope the pub takes its
teapot with it. For at Jindabyne
it has long been the sinful tradi-
tion to pour beer from this
innocent utensil.
However, neither pub nor
teapot is equal to present
demands. When thirsty workers
came swarming to Jindabyne
the licensee could perhaps have
put on more barmaids, bought
more teapots; but he had no
room for the drinkers. So next-
door a weatherboard bar was
built, of a proper size to meet
the demand. Not only does it
dwarf the old pub; it dwarfs
the rest of the town as well.
From Jindabyne the road
swoops upward in real earnest.
After climbing a long time, a
sign at the roadside announces:
“This Will Be The Top
Waterlevel.”
You drone on upwards, so
long that you begin to feel
some dramatic change in the
scenery is overdue. At last, if
your car is open, the air
suddenly claws at you in the
unfriendly manner called
“bracing.” And about this time
you see your first snow. This
usually looks like a dollop of
shaving-soap mysteriously spilt
at the foot of a gumtree.
Snow shows-up in more im-
pressive amounts, the road forks
to the right, and as it does so
you catch a glimpse of the
burnt-out Hotel Kosciusko. The
Government has been offering
to lease the remains, but so far
there’ve been no takers.
You come to the brand-new
city of Island Bend. I suppose
the Army would call Island Bend
a camp. It is, in fact, built of
Army-type huts, and looks like
an Alpine Ingleburn ; but the
huts are more comfortable than
Army huts ever were—or, for
that matter, than what I remem-
ber of the late Hotel Kosciusko.
On arrival on the present
trip I was escorted to an
attractive European woman,
the housekeeper. She produced
the key of a room in E-block.
As we proceeded to E-block,
my escort remarked: “The
best block. You must have a
way with women.” Reflecting
briefly on previous experience
with women I sadly decided
that, whatever the reason for the
housekeeper’s kindness, this
wasn’t it.
The hall-lights are set near the
floor, flush with the wall.
Though the carpet thus lighted
is merely coconut-fibre, the
effect is one of singular luxury.
No glare if in summer you
sleep with the door open.
Designing the hut, somebody
remembered that people were
going to live in it.
Rooms have home-comforts
plus h.- and c.-basin with
printed warning that water is
well and truly h. The home-
comforts are marked-off on a
printed inventory behind the
door. From this inventory I
learnt of a distinction between
rooms for men and for women.
There’s a “loughboy with mirror
for females,” but “a loughboy
without mirror for males.”
Male vanity is evidently a
possibility not admitted.
Through a square hole over
the door electrically-heated air
softly hisses into the room. It’s
quite tropical.
There’s a lounge, on the wall
of which a lengthy circular was
pinned: “It is evident that the
dog-population of Island Bend is
on the increase. It is incumbent
upon dog - owners ,” etc.
You can feel sympathy with this
piece of official exasperation:
Island Bend is alive with dogs.
I went out and ventured into
the canteen, which proved to be
extremely “wet.” Though wear-
ing shabby sports-clothes, I at
once felt absurdly overdressed.
Beards and old clothes were the
thing.
I nervously got talking to
some chaps who looked very
tough but turned out to be
extremely kind. Glasses of beer
sprouted before me at an
alarming rate; no chance of
paying for anything.
“Nothing to do but drink,”
they explained. “Noticed the
number of dogs round the place?
Terry there woke up one morn-
ing sharing a kennel with a
rcd'Scttcr.”
Singing in Italian, the crowd
at the next table burst into a
Neapolitan ditty.
“Those Spaghetti so-and-sos
are always singing,” cheerfully
explained the leader of my
group.
With his arm he made wind-
ing motions at the Italians, and
it dawned on me that he was
imitating an Italian organ-
grinder. The Italians grinned,
sang louder than ever.
“Are there many fights?”
“Not many.”
I learnt that Italians here
form 70 per cent, of workers ;
the other 30 per cent, come from
about 30 different nations. This
whacking majority perhaps has
something to do with the
scarcity of fights.
I suppose no Australian group
has ever considered itself to have
a surplus of beer. At 10 p.m.,
however, the Italians deemed
they had a surplus lined-up and
forgivingly offered them to us.
It’s more usual for unwanted
singers to become soured.
I asked one from what part
of Italy he came. He said
firmly: “Griffith.”
Next morning I set out with
Mr. C. E. Edmondson on a tour
of the dam and powerhouse.
Mr. Edmondson skippers this
hunk of the Snowy scheme, and
I was lucky to have him as a
guide. He’s keen about the
future of such schemes applied
to the rest of Australia, and his
keenness is the kind that glows
from inside.
First stop was to look at a
cliff on whose near-vertical face
Munyang Powerhouse, the Snowy scheme’s first-completed producing-unit. Claimed that power from it is
now paying for the scheme. (Photo by courtesy N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau.)
somebody seemed to have been
gardening.
“Mud is a dam’s greatest
enemy,” said Mr. Edmondson.
“People say, ‘What’s the use of
dams? They can silt-up in
twenty-five years and lose half
their storage-space.’
“We’re not going to let that
happen here. We’ve brought out
a soil-expert, from Austria I
think; his name is Mueller. As
soon as we dig some ground
bare, he treats it to prevent
erosion.” He waved at the
cliff. “Dr. Mueller has unusual
ideas. Simple, too. See those
stakes, now?”
At intervals down the cliff-
face rows of willow-stakes have
been driven into the ground. On
these stakes long, pliable
branches are woven, forming
wicker-fences about 2ft. high.
As rain washes soil down, the
fences filter it out and turn into
mud ramparts. Grass - seeds
strewn on the slope will take
root, adding more cohesion.
And, for that matter, the fences
themselves will take root. The
man-made scar on the hill will
be healed.
We crossed the road. Here
the slope continues down to the
valley-floor, but with somewhat
less Gothic steepness. It is,
however, still steep enough for
the new lawn growing on it to
be something of a shock.
Mr. Edmondson explained:
“For this sort of slope Dr.
Mueller has rolls of turf brought
up on trucks. We just unroll it
on to the hill, and there you
are.”
On all slopes some natural
gutters have formed where heavy
rains have cascaded down. No
amount of greenery would
entirely prevent this. But, to
prevent more earth from wash-
ing down, these gutters have
been disciplined fitted with
metal linings in the shape of a
shallow “V” about 2ft. wide,
lft. deep.
These metal gutters will duti-
fully guide their silt-free water
into the main scheme. Too
small a quantity of water to
bother about? No. For,
despite the inland oceans it
handles, this could be the
scheme’s motto: Not one tea-
spoon of water shall be wasted.
We looked across the valley.
It there slopes down with less
abandon, and I could see that
it has been terraced in more con-
ventional style with a bull-
dozer. Through the blue haze
this rippling, curving giant’s-
staircase was staggeringly
beautiful.
You expect visual splendor of
such a scheme in such a setting,
of course ; but you expect it to
be mostly in the grand manner.
However, in spring, these
Alpine avenues and vertical
lawns will be laced with a color-
burst of mountain flowers, and
thus a more unexpected quality
will be added —prettiness.
One thing may be lacking
from this display: spring lambs
gambolling about to complete
the scene. For Dr. Mueller
advises, as another anti-erosion
measure, banning of sheep from
the upland grass in summer. It
hardly needs saying that this
proposal is extremely unpopular
with some Monaro graziers.
Quite understandably, the
graziers feel that “harvesting the
snows” to enrich the bloke down
below is all very well; but not
if it means taking their living to
give it to him. They feel that
(Continued on page 27)


r
4
v
W.
COGNAC
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
NEW SOUTH WAXES
FESQ & COMPANY Pty.
Ltd. 193 Gloucester Street.
SYDNEY
/
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WALTER REYNELL
& Sons,
EEYNELLA
QUEENSLAND
THOMAS BROWN & Sons
Ltd., Eagle Street,
BRISBANE
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
DALGETY & Co. Ltd.,
P.O. Box 94,
PERTH
VICTORIA
TAYLOR FERGUSON &
Go., 127-129 King Street,
MELBOURNE
TASMANIA
BURGESS BROTHERS
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 96D,
HOBART
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. |or chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTV. LTD.,
I Maloney St., Mascot.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Most interesting runner at
Rosehill this Saturday will be
Aboukir, one of the best two-
year-olds of the season. The
Gold Nib (imp.) colt, who will
become a three-year-old on Aug.
1, proved his class when he
cleared out with 9.4 at Canter-
bury on Feb. 10. Prior to that
he won the A.J.C. Canonbury
Stakes at Randwick, beating
Sir Newton and Aquarua,
and had also won the V.R.C.
Maribymong Plate. Kingster
beat him in the A.J.C. Breeders’
Plate. Aboukir is trained at
Randwick by F. Dalton for
Norman Fraser.
Some good ones are back in
training in Sydney after resting
over the winter. Among them
are Prince Cortauld (topweight
in the two Cups), Knave, Far-
quhar, Connaught, Beaupa and
Empire Link. This year there
will be a change in Warwick
Farm spring meeting, which will
extend over two Saturdays,
August 20 and 27. The Hobart-
ville Stakes (three-year-olds) and
the Campbelltown Handicap (six
furlongs) will be features of the
first day, while the Warwick
Stakes (w.f.a., 7fur.) and the
Spring Handicap (llfur.) will
highlight the second day.
It may have been the jockey
who made the difference to The
Fluke’s prospects in the Canter-
bury Park Handicap, which he
won easily with McGrowdie in
the saddle. Blazeaway retained
consistency by his second, but
the 8.8 was too much for
him. Triple Flow, third, had
won at Newcastle a week earlier,
with The Fluke down the course.
Prior to that run The Fluke,
whose pedigree is unknown, but
who really knows how to put his
feet down, had won in
Encourage company at Rand-
wick over a 11 mile.
• • * e
A late plunge on Birdwood,
winner of the Oakleigh Plate-
Newmarket Handicap double
last year, failed at Canterbury
Park (Sydney). Firming from
12’s to s’s, he was nicely
weighted at 8.10, inclusive of a
51b. allowance, but he faded
after making a bit of a dash at
the home turn, plainly short of
a gallop or two.
King Boonala, winner at his
last two starts at Warwick
Farm, made Snow Dust look a
second-rater at the Farm on
July 2, yet the latter cleared out
with the Canterbury Two-year-
old Handicap on Saturday,
covering the 7|f. in I.3t£> which
cut the race-record by two
seconds. The moral of this
could be horses-for-courses, or
pick-’em-on-their-day.
Looking well after his early
winter spell, Cromis has returned
to training in Melbourne. He
will be a five-year-old on August
1 and is one of Melbourne’s best.
He has been out of a place only
three times in 29 starts. Stake
earnings to date, £21,828.
In July last year Bexley had
a surprise' win at Canterbury
Park (Sydney). Last Saturday
he bobbed up in Melbourne,
winner of the 13f. Moonee
Valley Hallam Handicap at 11
to 2. He’ll be eight-year-old on
August 1.
Ena was a brilliant mare in
Melbourne. She won several
good races, including the Edward
Manifold Stakes, and dead-
heated with El Golea in 1938
Toorak Handicap. Her two-
year-old grandson, Chief Aim,
was among the winners at
Moonee Valley. He’s a Palm
Vista (imp.) colt from Guidena
by Kinderscout (imp.) from Ena
by Liberal. Bred at Northwood
Park Stud, Seymour (Vic.), Chief
Aim cost Mr. and Mrs. J. M.
de Zoete 475gns. at the Mel-
bourne yearling-sales in March,
1954.
a • • •
Rope Trick, Moonee Valley
First Lyndhurst two-year-old
winner, got his name from his
dam Bowknot (imp.), previously
known as Bowline, who’s by
Nearco from Sword Knot by
Trimdon. The colt’s sire, Dhoti
(imp.), has sired winners of up-
wards of £133,000 in stakes.
Rope Trick was bred at Minta
Stud, Beaconsfield (Vic.), by
M. L. Baillieu, who races him in
partnership with I. Baillieu.
Follow the favorite and go
broke! Seventeen Melbourne
favorites have failed on end.
Last Saturday in Sydney five
favorites won, and the only out-
sider was The Fluke, and he was
backed from 20’s to 14’s because
McGrowdie was the jockey,
“I'll go easy on YOUR face if y' promise not to
damage MINE.”
Imported French sire Ninth
Duke sired two of the nine
winners at the B.A.T.C. meet-
ing. They were Ontara in the
Second Maiden and Davcha in
the Second Fifth Division
Handicap. Davcha is a three-
year-old gelding from Lady
Gem, a mare bred 13 years ago
by Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes, by
Simeon’s Fort (imp.) from Miss
Midilli by Rivoli. Lady Gem
has Carbine blood. Ontara’s
dam, Tara Speed, is by Speed
On (imp.) from Lady Tara by
Seremond (imp.).
• * • •
Dark Strung, second-favorite
and winner of Brisbane Two-
year-old Handicap, could de-
velop into a useful stayer in the
new season. She is a daughter
of Highstrung and Dark Veil by
Wise Force. D. W. McDougall
bred Dark Veil in 1939, and she
belonged to an old family line.
Her dam, Chanteveil, was got by
Chantmerle (imp.), a good stayer
of his day.
Gosford Maiden winner Avril
has the background of a stayer,
but has a long way to go yet.
After winning the Maiden he was
saddled up later in the day and
was unplaced in modest com-
pany. A top-ranking English
performer, Ki Ming, is included
in his bloodlines. Ki Ming won
£17,394 in stakes. The pedigree
also includes (on the dam’s side)
a number of Irish performers of
note, best being Ballynahinch,
winner of races over two miles
in England. Avril is by Gaek-
war’s Pride (imp.) from Rand-
wick winner Belle Cherie, by
Manitoba (imp.) from Cap
Ferrat (imp.) by Ballyferis.
* * *
Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide metropolitan trot-
courses are dormant, and Glou-
cester Park (W.A.) wrapped-up
its current season on Saturday
night. First back into stride
will be Sydney’s Harold Park
with a meeting on Saturday-
week. Fancies for the big sprints
will be showing a leg or four on
the newly top-dressed circuit,
while early fruits of the £500,000
spending-spree should be ripen-
ing in the background. Yarra-
siders will have the Show trots
in September, with increased
prizemoney to spur them on.
+ +
In Adelaide the S. Aust. side
paced it with a Vic. 18 at Aussie
Rules, scores being Vic. 10.10
to 8.10 at the last change. Then
the Yarrasiders bolted and it
was 15.11 to 9.10 at the finish.
Meantime in Sydney a Tas-
manian side walloped N.S.W.
by 21.18 to 7.12. At Rugby
League N.S.W. beat the French
37 to 23, and at Union N.S.W.
wiped Queensland 45 to nix—a
record of its kind.
On its home-ground, Geelong,
which goes on defeating good
sides in the V.F.L., seemingly
against all the rules (for one
thing the team was recon-
structed this year, and has a
hefty proportion of young and
first-year players), toppled Mel-
bourne by 10.11 to 6.16. The
Demons shot away to a 4.4-0.1
lead at first change, but then
Geelong, trailing for the first
three quarters, began to match
them and won with a brilliant
five-goal burst in the last quarter.
With one fewer scoring-shots
Richmond surprisingly beat
Footscray, 8.9-6.12, and in
another surprise Carlton, after
trailing right through, added five
goals in the last quarter to down
Hawthorn by 10.19 to 9.9. Fitz-
roy easily knocked South Mel-
bourne, 14.16-6.10, and in the
only two expected decisions
Collingwood beat North, though
only after a hard fight, 15.9-
13.14, and Essendon maltreated
poor old St. Kilda, 10.11-5.7.
“Goalsneak”: Melbourne
football team’s 10 successive wins
this year in the V.F.L. competi-
tion is no record. Collingwood
won 18 games straight in 1929,
Geelong won 13 straight in
1953, South Melbourne won 10
straight in 1932. Geelong’s 1953
run was stopped by Collingwood,
as was Melbourne’s this year.
Collingwood was the only one
to go on and win the premier-
ship.
• • • •
“Wusslean”: A charge by a
Kyneton (Vic.) full-back that he
had been struck by a boundary-
umpire during a football-match
between Castlemaine and Kyne-
ton made sensational news for
followers of Aussie Rules in Vic-
toria. The charge, unprecedented
in the code, was dismissed by
the Bendigo Football League
committee for want of evidence.
* * *
By the same 4-goal margin
by which they won the first
Soccer Test, Austrian Rapids
beat Australia in the second
Test at Newcastle; this time it
was 5-1. Down 2-1 at half-time
the Australians had just about
held their own, but couldn’t go
on matching the pace and wili-
ness of the Austrians. In Mel-
bourne a Chinese team, after
earlier in the week making chop-
suey of Victoria, beat a Com-
bined XI, mostly Victorians, by
5 to 3.
* * *
Adelaide “Advertiser” seems
to think things are evening them-
selves out in cricket and that
members of the British Common-
wealth of Nations are becoming
equal in this, if nothing else. It
notes that some time ago the
West Indies won a Test against
the then-supreme Australia;
South Africa then won two and
drew one Test in a series, Eng-
land then regained the Ashes.
But in the West Indies England
“barely escaped with her reputa-
tion,” lost a Test to a new chal-
lenger in Pakistan, came to Aus-
tralia and swept the board. Now
South Africa is holding Eng-
land in a Test-series in England
and the Australian team is home
from a “cloud of glory” in the
West Indies.
After a race against time
South Africa beat England in
the third cricket Test, to make
the series 2-1 England’s way.
The second Test had seemed to
be the Springboks’ till a Tyson
effort by Statham (7-39) bowled-
out their chances. Apropos, this
third-Test result points to
Statham’s value to the side and
to Tyson in particular; with
Statham out through injury a
lot of the wind went out of
the Typhoon.
* * *
Olympic athletes will use a
modern all-purpose sports centre
to be built by the University of
Melbourne to provide for
athletics, swimming, boxing,
wrestling, gymnastics, football,
cricket, hockey, squash, and
other sports.
* * #
Six thousand competitors and
officials will be transported in
200 buses 7| miles from Olympic
Village to the Melbourne Cricket
Ground for the opening cere-
mony of the Olympic Games on
November 22 next year. The
convoy will extend over 3| miles.
Teams will travel in the order
in which they will march in the
parade of nations, with Greece
leading and Australia last.


this particular suggestion of Dr.
Mueller’s may be too drastic.
All agree that overstocking
the mountains would be an evil.
The grass would be nibbled
away and the naked soil eroded.
But quite definitely these moun-
tains are not overstocked. Sheep
allowed up for a summer
holiday are kept to a cautious,
official quota.
A Cooma bank-manager later
told me: “Even towards the end
of the grazing-season it’s hard to
see what effect sheep have had
on the grass. In fact, even
though you know they’re there,
it’s hard to find a sheep actually
engaged in eating grass!
“I don’t say Mueller’s wrong,”
he added. “There must be other
sides to the story.”
Here’s one of the other sides:
To provide tasty new grass for
their sheep, graziers have in the
past been allowed to burn-off
old growth. Especially in
the mountains, burning - off
enormously hastens erosion.
We drove on towards the dam.
Rounding a bend I was startled
by a roadside gibbet with
“corpse” attached.
“When they finish a job,” said
Mr. Edmondson, “the Nor-
wegian boys hang a dummy
corpse.”
Looking very clean and new,
the dam came into sight. First
thing I noticed was an odd-
shaped concrete trough in front
of and at the foot of it.
“What’s that?”
“We’ve learnt from blunders
of dam-builders all over the
world,” said Mr. Edmondson
happily. “When the dam over-
flows, water roars over the spill-
way and starts a sort of baby
maelstrom at the foot. Danger
comes from water curling back.
In time it gnaws away the dam’s
foundations. The trough stops
the water curling back.”
We drove clear on to the dam
and got out. Over handrails
painted turquoise and yellow we
looked down at the water, which
was mostly covered with thick,
sulky-looking ice. Since the dam
wasn’t full, the ice just lay there ;
but should more water arrive
than the dynamos could drink,
the ice would wake up and try
to run over the top with the
water. Dams at high altitude —
most power-dams are at high
altitude —must take hammerings
from tons of ice as all in the
day’s work.
Some ass had been chucking
rocks on the ice to see if it
would break (it hadn’t). Mr.
Edmondson looked quite cross :
“Who’s trying to fill our dam
up already?”
From the dam water gushes
down a tunnel to whir through
the turbines of Munyang power-
house. I’d already glimpsed the
powerhouse from about three
miles back down the valley. As
we drove on for a closer look I
saw a heap of rubble by the
mouth of a small tunnel. Mr.
Edmondson explained that in
tunnelling it’s a confounded
nuisance to cart rubble right
back to the mouth. Instead,
rubble is often slipped out
through side-burrows or through
funnels put down from the
mountain-top. Rubble, by the
way, is more professionally
known as rockspoil.
Munyang power h o u s e
crouches beneath two mighty
pipes that swoop down out of
the sky. From the point where
they take over from the rock-
tunnel to where they enter the
powerhouse, the pipes narrow
from 10ft. 6in. to sft. 6in.
Water is almost unsquashable.
This narrowing increases the
downward thrust.
Munyang is a most elegant
powerhouse. Outside, its archi-
tecture is just pleasantly modern,
but the inside looks as if it
might have been “done” by a
fashionable lady interior-
decorator, and for all I know it
may have been. This is not to
make fun of it, for the power-
house has the best kind of
modern beauty ; the kind which
is built-in, not plastered-on
later.
Chief electrician at Munyang
is Mr. Gordon Shane. Mr.
Shane has the quiet confidence
that goes with pipe-smoking,
and perhaps being in command
of 60,000 kilowatts also has
something to do with it. He
squares with my notion of an
Oxford don; a young one with
a sense of humor.
First he showed us his switch-
board. This looks like some-
thing out of a spaceship. It is
about 18ft. long and 9ft. high,
and is tastefully enamelled a
delicate green.
“This is a push-button switch-
board,” said Mr. Shane, and
pushed a button to show us. A
little pink light came on, prov-
ing some giant circuit had
obeyed the button.
These buttons are even smaller
than the light-switches in your
home. They are really only
switches to switch on the real
switches. The real switches are
enormous.
In the centre of the board
some slightly larger switches
were marked with electrical
symbols. The symbols were
highly ornamental, being raised
from the switchboard in relief-
work, and done in exciting
colors. The garish color-
scheme has a down-to-earth
reason: some operator, new to
the board, might have to find
them in a hurry sometime.
Mr. Shane pointed to a
purple circle embracing an
orange triangle:
“That is the symbol for a
transformer. After the power
comes from the dynamo we
have to break it down by half.
Otherwise we’d need a copper
cable as thick as your arm to
carry it. Can’t have cable that
thick. Too dear.”
In front of the switchboard
is a long desk. This, too, is
covered with push-buttons and
little pink lights.
“Of course,” Mr. Shane said,
“a blown light-bulb could, by
not coming on when you pressed
a button, make something seem
to be wrong when it’s not. To
guard against that we have
another button for testing all
the lights belonging to all the
buttons at once.”
He pressed this master-button
and the whole place lit-up like
fairyland.
“And what if something does
go wrong?” I asked. “Does the
trouble report itself?”
“Yes. For instance, if the
dynamo develops a small
trouble, one that can wait, it
rings a bell. For one that can’t
wait it blows a siren. But if it
develops a fault so serious that
it won’t work at all there’s just
a silence. Bell . . . siren . . .
silence.
“If, by some unthinkable mis-
chance, someone should put a
direct short - circuit through
64,000 volts, giant fuses would
stop the place from blowing-up.
Just like the fuse-box at home,
only bigger.”
“Do you run the dynamos all
the time?” I asked.
“Unfortunately, no. We
haven’t enough water yet. Pity.
Although the capital outlay is
high, water-power is cheap
once the plant’s installed.”
“How long does the plant
last?”
“Well, everything runs in oil,
you know. I know one dynamo
in India that’s been running 25
years.”
One of the two dynamos was
then actually running, and, in
keeping with the place’s robot-
bias, a busy little machine was
acting as its overseer, Behind a
glass panel an automatic pen
affair was scuttling back and
forth, recording just what the
dynamo was up to. The robot-
pen has a transparent belly
through which you can see its
stock of purple ink.
“When it runs out of ink does
it ring a bell?” I asked.
“Unfortunately, no. We have
to watch that.”
The phone rang. Mr. Shane
spoke on it for a moment.
Cooma wanted him “to give
them 30,000 kilowatts for two
hours at five-o’clock.”
Wearing a dedicated expres-
sion, a boy started polishing the
switchboard.
“Nice color, isn’t it?” said
Mr. Shane. I agreed. “Eau-de-
Nil it’s called,” he told me;
“eau-de-Nil.”
I’d been struck by the hush in
the powerhouse. Torrents, I
felt, should romp through
turbines with a dramatic roar.
And so they do. But until then
a wall of glass had shielded our
ears.
The turbine-room is like a
city hall: big, high, echoing and
empty. On the floor there are
two dynamos and a telephone.
From the ceiling hangs a crane.
The room contains nothing else.
The turbines which spin the
dynamos are under the floor.
It’s important to distinguish
between a turbine and a dynamo.
A turbine is a set of blades set
spinning by water; there’s
nothing electrical about it. A
dynamo is a set of coils and
magnets which, when set spin-
ning by a turbine, makes electric-
current ; there’s nothing watery
about it.
Imagine two wedding-cakes,
each the size of a haystack.
This is what the dynamos look
like. By stooping you can see
the only visible moving part.
This is the shaft that comes up
through the floor from the
turbine. It’s as thick as the
trunk of a grown-up pine-tree,
spins 500 times a minute.
Feeling fatuous, I said:
“Must be good steel not to fly
to bits at that speed.”
“There’s an even bigger strain
inside the dynamo,” said Mr.
Shane. “It broadens out.
Think how much faster it must
be spinning there! Even one
small part has a force of many
hundredweight dragging at it.
They take extraordinary pre-
cautions to stop bits flying off.”
I learnt that the water-tunnel
under our feet came round in a
loop. The turbine was in the
centre of this loop; had to spin
with the man-made vortex.
Particularly when two
(Continued, on page JO)
One to Test the Toughest
Commando Way
By NORMAN KING
/I RMY authorities may not
f \ even be aware of its
| existence, but almost at
Sydney’s back-door they
have a natural commando
training-area.
In many respects the area,
from the old shalemining town-
ship of Newnes, deep in the
Wolgan Valley, through the
Capertee and Colo River valleys
to the broad Hawkesbury,
provides greater natural hazards
than the famed Canungra jungle-
training country in Queensland.
Six coalminers from the State
mine at Lithgow successfully
completed the arduous journey
in nine days, instead of the fort-
night expected; two fierce
storms, which caused the Colo
River to rise more than 6ft. in
an hour and a half, caused a
stepping-up in their rate of
progress. Further flooding could
have forced them to climb the
almost-sheer rock-walls above
them, to be marooned there on
ledges till the rivers subsided.
The six adventurers —W.
Wells, F. Dean, L. Morrison, C.
Delaney, W. Pillans and E.
Lloyd—organised the hike for a
twofold purpose: to complete a
journey on which others have
failed, and the toughness of
which has become almost
legendary in the western coal-
fields ; and to investigate uncon-
firmed reports that there was
splendid trout- and perch-fishing
in the almost inaccessible upper
reaches of the Colo River and
its tributaries. All members of
the Lithgow Workmen’s Club
fishing committee, the hikers had
visions of finding a fisherman’s
paradise in the rock-pools of the
fast-running rivers.
Setting out from the pic-
turesque ghost-town of Newnes
—scene of part of the minor
Australian film classic “A Bush
Christmas” —the six each carried
a pack weighing about 801 b.,
mainly tinned-food in case of
their being marooned on the
rocky ledges. A bottle of rum
was included, in case of snake-
bite.
Now a wild, lonely valley,
sheltering a few families where
once Australia’s first ill-fated
shale-oil enterprise employed
thousands, Newnes has one
essential adjunct to clinch its
claims as a sound proposition
for a commando-school—a still-
vigorous bush pub with a
bottled-beer quota based on the
lush years.
Striking down from the ghost-
town, the hikers gained an escort
of inquisitive miniature ponies,
tiny fellows less than ten-hands
high, descendants of pit-ponies
that had escaped from lives of
drudgery in the shalemine and
taken to the ranges.
Having seen few humans, the
ponies were almost friendly
enough to be handled. All were
sleek and glossy, almost in show-
ring condition.
Further down towards the
river the hikers saw mobs of
scrub cattle, wild and unbranded,
believed to be the progeny of
rustled cattle which gained
freedom while being driven over
the “rustlers’ track,” a little-
known ridge-hugging track which
is supposed to fink the lonely
valley with the lately flooded
Singleton district on the Hunter.
[C.M.F. training, which was to
include a jungle-fighting course,
was being started near Singleton
when the floods struck.]
Down on the Capertee River,
which flows through Glen Davis
Australia’s second ill-fated
shale-oil township, only a couple
of ridges away from Newnes- —
the six hikers saw the sky above
them narrow into a small cleft,
and things became unbearably
hot. .
Day after day passed with the
small oblong of sky above them,
rock walls on each side, and the
Capertee River narrowing to
little more than 20ft. m places
where flood-debris was piled 30ft.
above them.
Many times the hikers had to
* ea y e river and climb among
rocks, trees and tangled thorn-
Hden vines which plucked at
clothes and flesh. Always it was
singly Hot and the fl.es were
maddening.
Kiver, rorms me upper v_,oio, uic
°
they took to the river
itself, trudging with their heavy
packs through the knee-deep
water, but making better time
till they struck the quicksand,
which sucked them waist-deep.
Often it took an hour to get aii
a
One of the men fashioned a
ro , 8 ~ , y the 12 miles
an ’ Creek t h e y
r °, thfi? of the
m
t nt
~ , wa iked P from
t y y restin®
f ' tbpn con t
nnM the a temoon, then con
Swarms of flies gave up at
ffi 2$
b t tbe
ffies or the Lts and mosquitoes
always waited on bank.
Fishing-lines in the packs went
unused. Many schools of perch
were seen in the Colo River.
Eels, too, were plentiful, and at
Tambo Creek, well down
towards the junction with the
Hawkesbury, the miners saw
crayfish averaging about a foot
long.
Now and then black swans
flew through the narrow defiles,
or an occasional duck or cor-
morant would be sighted, but
there was little other sign of life.
The penetrating call of the whip-
bird was the most familiar sound
in the oppressive stillness.
Two savage storms brought
lashing hail, thunder and light-
ning, which magnified a hundred-
fold in the narrow, rocky chasm
Where they sheltered.
Watching the startling rise of
the river, the party decided to
step-up its rate of travel. The
river became too muddy for
drinking, even in tea, and quest
for clear water took the
explorers up many small creeks.
The long, exhausting hike
ended when the party came
through into the orchard
country of the Windsor district.
Newnes’s claims as a
toughening-up centre for troops
were first advanced, officially or
otherwise, in August, 1940, when
the Seventh Division, its train-
ing completed, began a memor-
able route-march from Ingleburn
to Bathurst, The march was led
by one of the most famous
A.I.F. battalions, the 2/ 13th, the
only Australian unit to see the
siege of Tobruk through from
beginning to end. It was while
the 2/13th was on the first leg
of its 130-mile route-march that
old-timers, who had made the
trek from Newnes, more-or-less
politely expressed opinions con-
cerning its toughening-up possi-
bilities for combat troops.
Army administration could be
carried out from “Hoaxville,” the
combined Army-R.A.A.F. estab-
lishment at Marrangaroo, where,
during the 1939-45 war,
camouflage-experts produced a
masterpiece of deceit by trans-
forming a big ammunition- and
explosives - depot into what
appeared to be an innocent, time-
weathered country tovra,
complete with the peeling paint.
Newnes, with its little bush
pub and its memories, is only a
few miles over the ranges from
“Hoaxville,” which has its own
branch-line from the main
western line at Marrangaroo.
Certainly the six miners who
made the tough journey agree
that their route would provide a
splendid obstacle - course for
commandos, particularly as the
uninhabited valleys would
be safe for anything from small-
arms to artillery barrages.
Commandos, tough men
though they undoubtedly are,
would probably have other ideas.


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jackson^
OSUtUV&H
PIT ITU
MtfS
tKAOE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORI
Manufacturers of:
JAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERB
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
( “NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL” BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS"
"AUTOMATION"
“ A UTOMATION” is a word
***which crops-up with more
and more frequency in the
American press; it does not yet
appear to have entered the Aus-
tralian vocabulary, but the word
and the subject are receiving an
increasing amount of attention
in British papers.
Thus, London “Daily Tele-
graph” in what is as good a
definition as any of the new
giant on the industrial
landscape:
“The first industrial revolu-
tion, by harnessing steam-power
and creating the repetitive
machines of mass-production,
provided a substitute for human
muscle - power. This second
revolution, as well as promising
more energy from the atom, is
about to offer a substitute for
human brainpower by develop-
ing electronics.
“For electronic devices can
themselves do the repetitive
work which ordinary machines
have up to now demanded from
their human operators: elec-
tronic machines can themselves
repeat operations indefinitely,
test their own products and
correct their own mistakes.”
These machines, in one form
or another, are not something
on the way. They are here. As
the same paper points out, a
machine has been operating in
America for the last three years
producing six-cylinder engine-
blocks from rough castings,
virtually without human inter-
vention, and has cut the time
needed from nine hours to 15
minutes.
“In another American fac-
tory,” the “D.T.” adds, “automa-
tion (as it is called) has cut the
direct labor-force employed on
producing wirelesses from 200
to two.
“In this country [Britain] an
electronic computer, developed
by Lyons [the London caterers],
will soon be calculating the
weekly wages of a staff of 10,000,
as well as handling all the orders
from the teashops to the central
bakery. In Russia, where
cylinder-blocks have been made
automatically since 1948, there
is a machine now which will
automatically test the surface-
finish of machined products
without error.”
London “Daily Mirror”
spreads the subject over a half-
page with 2in. headings and
such comment as:
“They can bake pies. They
can make motors. They can
answer the telephone. They can
fashion jig-borers. They can
add-up, subtract, divide. They
can write. They can speak.
They can pen love-letters. They
can do all these things without
any help from you.”
Further:
“When a machine takes your
job and does it for you, that’s
automation. When a machine
takes molten metal and turns it
into a wrapped-up car-part
without any human hand touch-
ing it, that’s automation. When
a machine can swallow-up in
one gulp the work that once
took 200 men to do, that’s
automation.”
Also:
“J. Lyons and Co. have an
electronic office called Leo. It
works out the weekly wage-
packets of 7000 people in 40
minutes. Once this job took a
battery of clerks 225 hours.
“Fourteen machines make 90
per cent, of America’s electric-
light bulbs —producing them at
the rate of 1800 a minute.
“The Russians have an auto-
matic factory manned by nine
men that turns out piston-heads
for the entire Soviet light-car
industry.
“The Americans have a
machine that works out the
salaries, taxes and pensions of
200,000 New York City
employees. It replaced 50
clerks.
“Robots worked out this
year’s British income-tax tables,
involving 750,000 calculations,
in 10 hours. The task used to
take a skilled staff weeks.
“The Ford plant in Cleve-
land, Ohio, has a battery of
electronic brains and automated
machines serviced by 250 men
doing twice the work that 2500
workers used to do.
“The Pittsburg power-plant,
now being built, will need only
six men to furnish electricity
for a whole city the size of
Manchester.”
Behind the note of mild
wonder in all the comment on
automation is the concern that
its increasing application will
cause considerable disturbances
in the present industrial balance.
The London “Daily Mirror”
claims that the purpose of its
prominent half-page articles is
to draw attention to that possi-
bility ; it recommends that both
sides work to ensure that auto-
mation brings “more leisure and
less drudgery to working
people” and not “mass un-
employment and the dole-
queue.”
London “Daily Telegraph,”
too, adds that “it is worth a
slight caricature of possible
effects to provoke a more general
discussion than has yet taken
place”:
“On the one hand [automa-
tion] will shift the demand for
labor, in banks and in offices,
and in some sections of manu-
facturing industry, from the
unskilled to the skilled —indeed
to the highly skilled. At the
same time it could create, for
the 1960’s and 1970’5, fear of the
type of unemployment that was
the nightmare of the Luddites.
“For all our immediate prob-
lems, some investment of fore-
thought now would be an insur-
ance at the least —and might
make the second industrial
revolution more fortunate in its
social effects than the first.”
British Shipbuilding
Several orders for ships from
British firms have lately gone to
German shipyards, and shipping
authorities seem uncertain
whether it is a matter for regret
or reproach—regret that British
yards are unable to handle the
business because they are work-
ing to capacity, or reproach be-
cause British costs are too steep
and uncertain and the time-lag
from order to completion too
long.
Edinburgh “Scotsman” sees
the decision of the Shaw Savill
Line to order three motor cargo-
liners from the German Bremer
Vulkan shipyard and only one
from the Clyde as another warn-
ing for the British shipbuilding-
industry :
“This is said to be the first
time that this British company
has placed a contract for new
ships outside the United King-
dom, and evidently the departure
from tradition was made with
great reluctance. As the chair-
man of Shaw Savill explained,
the ships are needed quickly, and
the German shipbuilders were
able to promise delivery at least
a year ahead of the British yards.
Moreover, the German price
was considerably lower than
that of their British competitors.
“Shaw Savill are not the only
British shipowners to send their
business abroad, as the Blue
Star Line last year ordered
three cargo-liners from the same
German shipbuilders, while a
few small orders from Scotland
have also gone to German
yards,”
British yards are unable to
promise early deliveries, and
that, with the trend of rising
prices, makes it difficult to
quote fixed prices. “Thus,” the
“Scotsman” continues, “the
chairman of the Shaw Savill
Line remarked that the ‘escalator’
clause in British tenders provided
for almost unlimited increases in
price should costs rise, whereas
the corresponding provision in
the German contract was limited
to per cent.
“It would be unfair to blame
the trade-unions entirely for the
difficulty of forecasting ship-
building prices; their wage
claims, which contribute largely
to increases in costs, may be
justified by the general inflation-
ary tendency. But output is
slowed-down and made more
expensive than it need be by
restrictive practices. The demar-
cation system by which work is
distributed among unions is a
source of disputes and an
obstacle to the efficient use of
manpower.”
Cyprus
Anti-British riots in Cyprus
are not new —Government House
was burned down 20 years ago
—and the latest outbreaks of
violence and agitation for enosis
(union with Greece) have, as
London “Spectator” puts it, a
“blessed ineffectualness” about
them, having “led to only two
deaths since April,” while “the
violence and grandiloquence of
the extracts from the Greek press
which the Athens radio has been
broadcasting are not an accurate
measure of what is going on”:
“We [Britain] could certainly
hold Cyprus in spite of Greek
Cypriot opposition. We could
certainly make a good case for
doing so on the familiar ground
that the Cypriots are much better
off as they are, that we have
repeatedly offered them liberal
Constitutions which they have
rejected, and that we have obli-
gations to the Turkish minority
as well as to the Greek majority.
“We could fortify our case,
as we habitually do, by pointing
out that the movement for uni-
fication with Greece has been
deliberately and probably fraud-
ulently stimulated, and we could
drive all these points home by
spending more on propaganda
in Cyprus.
“The moral objection to this
policy of ‘have and hold’ is
simply and overwhelmingly that
it involves imposing a regime
which everybody knows to be
resented with more or less bitter-
ness by most of the people who
live under it; and the political
objection, which is equally
strong, is that it involves per-
petuating a running sore in
Anglo-Greek relations. Besides,
‘have and hold’ is a policy which
calls for skill as well as courage,
and skill has been pathetically
absent from British policy
towards Cyprus in recent years.”
On the other hand, London
“Time and Tide” considers that
“the excesses of the Cypriot
nationalists are such that the
British authorities are entitled to
regard them as constituting an
armed rebellion”:
“They are certainly seditious.
There can be no question of
negotiating with any Cypriots,
New York “Herald Tribune”
“HE MIGHT GIVE YOU A GAME."
and the sedition must be dealt
with by the lawfully constituted
Government. But it is not a
purely local matter. Great Britain
must consolidate her alliance
with Greece and with Turkey,
for the Turks are disquieted and
are being driven into hostility
towards Greece by a sedition
which is so injurious to the
Turkish Cypriot minority.
“The Greek Government tried
for years to restrain the Cypriot
nationalists, but the demand for
enosis has the support of Greek
public opinion. Pro-British
feeling was stronger in Greece
than in any other European
country, but it is being converted
into bitter hostility.
“It is, of course, impossible
for Great Britain to give up
Cyprus as a military-and-naval
base. The present conflict im-
pairs the security of this base.
If war were to break out, Great
Britain could not, if things
remain as they are, count on the
loyalty of the Cypriots and it
must be recognised that the
Greeks could hardly be expected
to be as wholehearted in support
of Great Britain as they were
in the last war. The whole con-
flict plays into the hands of the
Communist Powers. Rumania is
already making overtures to
Greece and the Greek and
Rumanian Ministers in The
Hague have met to promote
better relations between the two
countries.”
Greece and Rumania are not
the only possible complications.
As London “Daily Telegraph”
comments, “when we remember
the complex of treaties and
arrangements including Greece,
Turkey, Yugoslavia, Irak, Persia,
and Pakistan, it can be seen that,
in the event of trouble with
Greece, the consequences would
be extremely grave.”
London “Economist,” too,
recalling Gladstone’s remark that
“he would feel satisfaction if
he could see ‘the population of
that Hellenic island placed in
organic union with their brethren
of the Kingdom of Greece,’”
adds that “it would not be so
easy today”:
“For one thing, it would not
be so easy to save Britain’s face
—not merely the Prime Min-
ister’s face after the very dog-
matic stand he took during his
visit to Athens in September,
1953, but also the face of the
British people after the stands
they have not taken in other
parts of the Middle East. In
Palestine, in the Canal Zone, in
the Sudan, at Abadan and else-
where —in all these instances
the British, saying they would
ne’er consent, have consented
to surrenders great or small.
“If now, having been even
more dogmatic than usual, we
run away from an ambitious
cleric, a parcel of politicians in
Athens and a handful of hooli-
gans in Nicosia, it will be the
final proof to all the wiseacres
in the Near and Middle East.
From Corfu to Karachi, it will
be difficult ever again to con-
vince anybody that the British
are in earnest.
“The second thing that has
changed is the attitude of Turkey.
From the time that theoretical
Turkish sovereignty over Cyprus
ended in 1920 until very recently,
Ankara showed no noticeable
interest in Cyprus. But now it
takes a strong interest, and
declares that it will fight rather
than permit the sovereignty of
the island to go to Greece. How-
ever the new' Turkish interest
in Cyprus arose, it is genuine
enough, and there is no reason
to suppose that the Turkish Gov-
ernment is not in full earnest.
“The third thing that has
changed has been the decision
to build in Cyprus the main
British military-and-air base for
the Middle East. This is the last
place in the whole area to which
the British forces can go ; if they
are forced out of Cyprus, they
have to go back to England.
To suggest to the Service chiefs
that they could get all they want
out of a long-term treaty with
Greece after the island had be-
come Greek, with the added
advantage of a friendly popula-
tion, is to excite the most violent
reaction.
“The Services know from
experience that ‘friendliness’ can
be turned on and off at the tap
by any politicians who get into
control. The military view is
that every penny of the many
millions of pounds that are
being spent at Dekelia and
Akrotiri is being thrown away
unless the assumption of con-
tinuing British sovereignty holds
good.”


V,
£
TO
serve
country
z
your
VOUKSUW
mp
A
Help NOW to strengthen Australia’s Northern Gateway by helping to build
up Queensland’s power resources ! The Queensland State Electricity Loan has
a lustrous record/ It’s a gilt-edged security, completely safe with repayment
in full at maturity guaranteed by the Queensland State Government There is no
safer, more worthwhile investment to protect and profit YOU and AUSTRALIA.
INVEST IN THE
QUEENSLAND STATE
[isaa
6 OR 15 YEARS TERM
mmmm
PER
tNT6REST
NOW OPEN/
Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the Queensland Government.
• Interest rate is MORE than DOUBLE Bank Interest. Payable half-yearly.
• You can invest £5O or any multiple of £5O for 8 or 15 years term.
Subscriptions free of exchange
APPLY through any branch of the Commonwealth Bank, any Stockbroker, or
direct to the Queensland State Electricity Commission in Brisbane.
The Loan is underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
LOAN CLOSES JULY 30, 1955


FINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
jw.i2sa.ixc
Missing Friend
MRS. ROSA FRIEDMAN (sometimes
called ROSE FREEDMAN), last heard ol
in 1939 residing at 69 Diettelsgasse,
Entrance Brrosowa 4, Cracow, Poland.
Will anyone having any news of her since
then communicate with DWYER &
THOMAS, Solicitors, Perth. W.A.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..,
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques.
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
remember he’s pulled it six
times for O’Toole.”
We heard the “karr-peff” of
Nick spitting thoughtfully.
“But O’Toole lost on him,” he
said.
“Aw yes, but that was differ-
ent —one of the other blokes had
a battery the day O’Tople had
the big money on.”
“Couldn’t we use a battery
and make sure?”
Pawpaw’s voice floated up
slowly, laden with disgust. “Aw,
come off it,” he protested.
“That wouldn’t be honest.”
Feet shuffled.
“I better take it home before
dark,” Pawpaw said. “I’ll lock
it in the house-yard, and feed it
there. We don’t want anything
to happen to it before
tomorrow.”
t “Right,” Nick put in briskly.
“I’ll see you up here at the ramp
in the morning and give you a
hand to load it on the float.”
We heard the patter of depart-
ing feet. I undraped from the
crankcase.
“You know,” said Gilly
thoughtfully, “I think there’s
something crooked going on.”
We looked out at Pawpaw
riding proudly down the
headland,
“Bejeezers, that horse’s got
long legs,” Gilly worried. “A
man wouldn’t have a chance if
ever Pawpaw took-off after him
on it. We’ll just have to get the
bike going. Pawpaw’s just as
liable to chase us with the nag
in the morning just to see how
fast it can go.”
“I wouldn’t put it past him,”
I agreed.
IyrOTOR-CYCLES are reluct-
ant burners of power-
kerosene. Even when first
warmed by petrol poured into
its ample carburettor, the motor
ran as unbalanced as a horse
with legs of different length.
Gilly closed the spark and killed
the thudding, spasmodic cough.
I watched him scratch his head
worriedly through a pall of
white, pungent exhaust-smoke.
“She’s running a bit rough,”
he claimed. His mind fled to
the remembered principles of
four-cycle.
“It’s a question of octane,” he
.brought forward learnedly.
“How do you fix that?” I
inquired unfairly.
“Beggared if I know,” Gilly
admitted. The admission
chafed him. “I was reading the
other day that those speedway
blokes use ether and something
to give her the octane,” he
announced brightly, satisfied in
the knowledge that we had none
of the materials available to test
the fidelity of his theories.
“Of course we haven’t got
anything like that here,” he said,
underlining the words in air
with an emphatic nodding of his
head. I felt the urge of
initiative.
“Isn’t there anything else we
could use?” I wondered aloud.
We surveyed the interior of
the stables hopefully. Gilly’s
eyes rested on a forgotten drum
of carbon-bisulphide.
“I wonder how that would
go?” he pondered.
“It burns good,” I remem-
bered. “How about that time
you lit a bottle behind the
school?”
Gilly smiled at the memory
of lost eyebrows. “We’ll try
it,” he decided.
Wives have left husbands who
use carbon-bisulphide at work.
“Jeezers, it stinks,” I said, as
Gilly poured a cupful into the
cycle-tank with the kerosene.
“Hop on,” Gilly invited. I
looked hesitantly at the pillion.
“What if she blows up?” I
inquired.
Gilly flashed me a look of
contempt. “What are you
worrying about?” he demanded.
“I’m the prawn that’s sitting on
top of the engine.” He kicked
the engine into life.
“She’s running all right,” I
decided.
“ ’Course,” Gilly scorned ;
“it’s still on petrol, that’s why.
We’ll belt her down the road till
she warms up, then we’ll switch
on to homebrew.”
We charged down the head-
land. Gilly throttled-down for
the bridge.
“I’ll switch it over,” Gilly
yelled, leaning down to the fuel-
tap.
We thundered up the hill.
“It ought to come in any
minute now,” Gilly prophesied.
We rose to the crest of the
hill like a startled swallow.
“It won’t be long now,” Gilly
yelled.
I caught a sudden vision of
Pawpaw mounted on his race-
horse a stone’s-throw ahead.
Gilly swung to avoid him. Even
in the shrunken seconds as we
drew level a frightening pre-
monition tugged at my mind.
The horizon was filled with the
startled face of Pawpaw and the
rolling eyes of his racehorse.
T TNDERNEATH me some-
thing roared like a naval-
gun. The straight - through
exhaust flashed backwards like
a launched torpedo.
A sheet of blue flame singed
my bare leg, and a thunder of
backfires rang in my ears.
Above us the rearing legs of a
racehorse pawed at the sky.
The final backfire as the motor-
cycle crashed to a halt was the
loudest of all.
And the most spectacular of
effect. It brought the head of
Pawpaw’s racehorse within
inches of the ground and drove
its hind legs high into the sky.
We watched fascinated, Paw-
paw soaring like a great mis-
shapen eagle, hairy legs and
arms outstretched.
“We should have waited and
used ether or something,” Gilly
decided.
The heavy thud of Pawpaw’s
descent acted as a full-stop to
the sentence. Pawpaw rose
groggily to his feet. He must
have been very wild. Even
though he had become a horse-
owner, Pawpaw would still
normally have remembered
certain basic principles concern-
ing exhaust-pipes.
“I’ll kill you,” he gasped, and
fastened two hands like hams
right around the hot exhaust-
pipe lying on the road.
Above the heavy competition
of the sulphurous fumes rising
from the crashed cycle we recog-
nised the smell of roasted flesh.
“Ahhhhhh! ” bellowed Paw-
paw in agony.
“I think,” said Gilly slowly,
“we had better go.”
■yjJE did a Landy down the
” headland in the wake of
the fleeing racehorse.
“Cornstalk” Cavanaugh, chip-
ping a block of plant-cane a
mile down the road, afterwards
claimed that he heard the roar
of our departing exhaust-pipe,
the thunder of backfire, saw
the passing of Pawpaw’s race-
horse, and heard the clatter of
its hooves on the Forestry
bridge two miles away, all in
the time it took for him to
straighten his back from the
cane-row.
But this is a lie. If it were
fact we would have heard the
double clap-clap of a broken
sound-barrier.
A blackboy from the mission
has a story about a racehorse
he once saw in the bush, head-
ing north in the general direc-
tion of Cape York, shedding
sections of saddlery as it went;
and his story is sometimes
believed.
_ But these occasional specula-
tions by outsiders on the fate
of Pawpaw’s racehorse only
serve to strike chords of
memory.
Like errant thoughts of
Nick’s face strangely bleak, as
he paced up and down the
stable-yard muttering, “Over
fifty-quid in cold blood —fifty-
quid, mind you!”
And a vision of Pawpaw limp-
ing round with cupped and
bandaged hands.
Or shadowed visions of Gilly
and me late in the afternoon of
that fateful Friday, sitting on
the bridge by the cutting, look-
ing dolefully downwards at
bubbles rising gently from their
birthplace deep in the muddy
waters, while our minds played
hopefully with thoughts of
salvage.
And Gilly’s hushed voice,
clear in the cool of evening,
vibrant with feeling, as he
claimed, “I don’t care what they
did to us, but they shouldana
tossed that motorbike in the
creek!”
dynamos work as a pair it’s
essential that the speed be
steady. The governors which
see to this are similar to those
on old-fashioned spring gramo-
phones : metal balls that fly out
and put on the brakes when
spun too fast. In this case,
putting on the brakes means
partly closing the giant water-
tap. Of course, the metal balls
are too weak to do this. They
make an electric-motor do it
for them.
Twin dynamos must both spin
at the same speed because the
electricity they make performs—
as does all alternating current —
a shuttling motion between plus
and minus poles: they must
shuttle “in step” or else blow
every fuse within range.
Water is sloppy stuff, not
easy to control—as is, say, the
electricity it helps to make.
Particularly when a turbine is
shut-off does this sloppiness have
to be allowed for. One moment
there are tons of water rushing
down the tunnel, through the
turbine, and out the other side.
The next, this water is blocked
by the great tap to the turbine.
The surplus surges violently
back up the pipe ; were there
not some place for the water to
go it would certainly burst the
pipe.
It goes into the surge-tank.
This is a safety-valve placed on
the last steep drop to the
powerhouse. The shock-wave of
water taken care of, the water
in the pipeline loses its momen-
tum, gradually comes to a
standstill.
When a turbine is opened the
reverse takes place. It’s a little
time before the water gets
moving from the dam higher
up ; meanwhile the aptly-named
surge-tank keeps things going by
releasing its stored water.
Air must be able to circulate
into the top of the tank; other-
wise the water-level would be
prevented by air-pressure from
varying. However, too much of
the air that circulates at
Kosciusko would soon freeze the
tank out of action. It has
therefore to be heated.
The great thing about water is
that, having turned one set of
dynamos, it is quite ready to go
on downhill and turn another
set. Unlike coal or oil, it is
not bumed-up. In time the
water will run down Munyang
tailrace to turn many other
dynamos. And it will have
turned others before it gets to
Munyang. These will be at
what is to be the highest dam of
all, Spencer’s Creek.
Spencer’s Creek will be a
very important dam —for two
main reasons. One is that water
at so great an altitude is good
for many trips through the
powerhouse. The other is
because of the deep snowfields
up there, to catch the thawed
product of which many miles of
viaducts will be built.
Snowfall and rainfall have not
so much in common, by the way.
I quote from a U.S. review of
The Moving Waters, by John
Collis:
Is anyone inclined to think of a
snowflake as frozen rain? It is
nothing of the sort In their poetic
way, most snowflakes crystallise
around microscopic particles of star-
dust which fall continuously on the
earth from outer space.
This is why, acre for acre,
heavy-snow areas provide far
more water than heavy-rain
areas.
At Spencer’s Creek a curious
experiment is being carried out
in preparation for this snowiest
of the Snowy dams. I first
learnt about it when I bumped
into a Norwegian I know.
“What are you doing?” I
asked him.
“I am refrigerating the
ground,” he said.
“Seems a bit unnecessary up
here.”
“Come down and have a
look,” he said.
Several days later I got a
chance to hike to Spencer’s
Creek and see what he was up
to. Spencer’s Creek is almost
6000 ft. up. Snow was lying
about on the ground. The
refrigeration-plant is in a tin
shed, right beside the creek.
Chunks of ice were floating in
the creek, snow was piled-up
against the shed. The plant
seemed more superfluous than
ever.
But in these parts there’s no
rock-base suitable for holding up
a dam. So it is proposed to
freeze the ground solid and
build on that, instead.
This will mean keeping the
ground frozen for ever, but,
since there’ll be plenty of cheap
hydro-power for the purpose,
it’s not so extravagant as it
sounds.
Freezing the ground will offer
another advantage. It will
prevent water-loss from the dam
by seepage. That is, if it
works: things are still in the
experimental stage.
My Norwegian friend showed
me the great pipes which circu-
late freezing brine to a depth
of 69ft. As all other machines
in the area seem to do, the
machine just about thinks for
itself. Thermometers are placed
at various levels to see how the
ground is freezing-up. The
machine takes all their tempera-
tures and writes them down.
I asked: “Suppose this freez-
ing idea works, and they build
on the frozen earth, what will
happen if the refrigeration-plant
breaks down? Won’t the whole
dam collapse?”
“Oh, no.... Maybe sag a
little.”


A HAPPY HOME—
THROUGH FAMILY PLANNING!
Humanitarian scientists have discovered a means of determining
with certainty the exact time of fertility and sterility in the
individual woman. A safe, natural method allowing one to dis-
pense with poisonous chemicals and harmful appliances.
NATURAL METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL
It is simple, easy to follow and makes Family Planning absolutely
reliable. It enables people to whom children have 1..-n denied for
years to calculate accurately the woman’s most l. iille time to
foster conception. On the other hand, it encourages and enables
young couples to marry early and to settle down first before lixing
the date for conception and birth of their first child and later,
according to circumstances.
ELIMINATION OF RISK
In the past, a woman could never be sure; she had to tbite &
risk. Now, she can know with certainty. Thousands of clinical te
have proved it.
CHURCHES SANCTION NATURAL METHOD
Medical authorities highly recommend Dr Al „*?°iL r , eS ;™idarme T for
ADJUSTMENT COURSE’’ giving .com pletenati ral guidance ro
the happy and successful regulation of the marital relations
in all its aspects. It contains the “WOMAN S CYCLE CAE
CULATOR,” invented by DR. E. ALEXANDRE, . ntee d
shows a woman’s fertile and sterile days, and is B uaranieea
reliable.
Price of CALCULATOR £1
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, Dept. 8.N.8, Box 3584, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
-DON’T DELAY—MAIL AT THE EARLIEST
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc., Dept. 8.N.8, Box 3584, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. (13 Alan St., Nth. Sydney. Phone XV 6789)
q Please send further information re both. I enclose addressed,
n under plain, sealed cover the WOMAN’S CYCLE
LJ CALCULATOR. I enclose £l.
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS
(State)
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
ZE AND TYPE _ §
FOR £/&YFARM!
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
AUTOMATIC
PICK-UP BALERS
Engine Driven B-45
I
m
m
i
H
:-'•: - n
Gentle-acting, low-level
balers with capacities from
5 to 10 tons per hour!
THERE’S a McCormick Inter-
national pick-up baler for
every crop and every condition of
hay making. Whether you have
steep hay paddocks, a large acre-
age or a heavy crop there is a
McCormick International low- cost,
Zoio-level automatic pick-up baler
to do a better, faster job of baling.
Choose from McCormick Inter-
national and choose from the
greatest selling line of balers in
Australia! Place your order now
with your local IH dealer.
Write to International Harvester Com-
pany, Box 4305, G.P.O. Melbourne, for
a free copy of a booklet “Silage making
with the B-45”.
The most sought after
baler in the worldl
B-45 PJ.O. driven.
01.602-36
Twine and wire tying
55 series with capaci-
ties up to 10 tons per
hour.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities. Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Vic.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy, secondhand, copies of
books by Rider Haggard.—6lol.
To buy copies of Budgeree Ballads
(1908) or How Doherty Died, by
Thos. E. Spencer; or, failing copies,
words or poem “Billygoat Flat,” by
the same author. —6104.
To buy copy of Landtakers and
Inheritors, by Brian Penton; also
Capricornia, by Xavier Herbert.
—6105.
To buy copies of The Hidden Tide
(1899), The Circling Hearths (1901)
and Poems (1920), by Roderic Quinn.
—6106.
To buy copy of Sweet Boronia: A
Story of Coolgardie, by E. G.
(“Dryblower”) Murphy. —6107.
Does Anybody Know?
Who named, when and why, Round
Hill Head, Bustard Bay (Q.), also
Round Hill, about seven miles inland
from that spot?—6lo2.
Information Sought
What constitutes a city in N.S.W.?
Names of cities in N.S.W. and their
populations ?
Under the N.S.W. Local Govern-
ment Act, 1919, the Governor may
proclaim as a city a municipality
which has, during the five years pre-
ceding such proclamation, had an
average population of at least 15,000
persons, and has during the same
period had an average gross-income
from all sources of at least £20,000.
It is necessary for the area to be
an independent centre of population
and not a suburb, whether residential,
industrial, commercial or maritime,
of any other municipality or centre
of population. Cities proclaimed
before the commencement of the
Local Government Act, 1919, con-
tinue as cities under that Act. The
cities in N.S.W. and their popula-
tions as at June 30, 1954, are as
follows: Sydney (city area), 192,869;
Newcastle, 134,057; Albury, 16,779;
Armidale, 8658; Bathurst, 16,087;
Blue Mountains (Katoomba), 22,952;
Broken Hill, 31,355 ; Goulburn,
19,161; Grafton, 9765; Lismore,
17,370; Lithgow, 15,123; Maitland,
21,328; Orange, 18,262; Parramatta,
76,100; Tamworth, 13,617; Wagga
Wagga, 19,243; and Greater
Wollongong, 90,811.
* *— * *
(I) What is the procedure in
adopting a State orphan (boy) in
N.S.W.? (2) What age are boys
when free for adoption? (3) What
is the co-st of complying with the
legal formalities? (4) What guaran-
tee does one have to give ? (5) Is
any personal history supplied with a
State orphan ?
(1) Adoption-orders in N.S.W. are
made by the Supreme Court, and the
Child Welfare Department acts as an
agent for the placement of children,
who are placed at its disposal for
adoption, with approved adopting-
parents. When a child has been
placed with prospective adopting-
parents the department proceeds
with the necessary application to
the Supreme Court. Most children
placed by the department for
immediate adoption are not State
wards but new-born babies, the
parents (or parent, if the child is
illegitimate) of which have asked for
adoption to be arranged. When an
adoption-order is made with respect
to a State ward, it is usually made
in favor of foster-parents in whose
care the child has been for a con-
siderable time. (2) Children are
available for adoption when the
necessary consents have been given,
and adoption-orders can be obtained
in respect to children or young
persons who are under the age of
21 years. In the case of a child 12
years of age or over, the consent of
the child, as well as the natural
parents, is necessary. (3) If an
adoption is arranged by the Child
Welfare Department no costs are
involved. (4) Full investigation is
made by the department as to the
suitability of persons wishing to
adopt children. (5) The fullest
information about the child offered
for adoption is given to prospective
adopting-parents.
* * * *
Some information on Unesco ?
Unesco is based on the assumption
that a lasting peace cannot be built
exclusively on political and economic
arrangements, but must be founded
also on the intellectual and moral
solidarity of mankind. It is there-
fore concerned with a broad range
of activities in the fields of education,
science and culture (literature, arts,
etc.); its task is to advance mutual
knowledge and understanding of
peoples, give fresh impulse to popu-
lar education and the spread of
culture, and to increase and diffuse
knowledge. One of Unesco’s first
post-war duties was to rebuild war-
destroyed schools, libraries and
museums. Unesco grants are made
for books and periodicals and such
things as sound-projectors for schools
and laboratory- and museum-
supplies. It also publishes a quarterly
journal and various pamphlets on
U.N. activities, and organises con-
ferences, educational missions, etc.
At Aug. 1, 1951, there we:e 64
member-countries in Unesco.
In what play or story occurs the
phrase “Sister Anne, is there anyone
coming ?’’
In the French legend “Bluebeard.
Bluebeard’s last wife, Fatima, in his
absence, discovers the bodies of his
previous wives; on his return he
orders her death. She begs a little
delay to prepare herself for death by
prayer (in Perrault’s version) or, in
another version, to wear once again
her wedding-dress. She sends her
sister Anne, who happened to be
there, to the top of the tower to look
for her two brothers, who were
expected on a visit: “Sister Anne,
Sister Anne! Do you see anyone
coming?” To which Anne’s reply
several times was “Nothing but the
white dust Mowing and the green
grass growing” (Perrault). At last,
however, it is “I see a cloud of dust
on the road from Baghdad,” the
brothers appear, and Bluebeard is
slain.
Brief Answers
F.McA.: The poem is “The Shep-
herdess,” by Alice Meynell. The
opening line reads: “She walks —the
lady of my delight—a shepherdess of
sheep”... .L.S.: The islands of Hen-
derson (12 sq. miles), Ducie (2± sq.
miles) and Oeno (2 sq. miles) were
annexed in 1902, and are included in
the Pitcairn group... .L.M.: Write
W. C. Betts, secretary, the Taxpayers
Association of Queensland, 165
Elizabeth - street, Brisbane... .H.G.:
Two Songs of '57, notes by Hugh
Anderson and lino-cuts by Ronald G.
Edwards; published by Rams Skull
Press, Lower iFerntree Gully (Vic.),
1954; price 26s J.S.: Queen
Elizabeth II was born on April 21,
1926; was married on November 20,
1947; and succeeded to the crown on
the death of her father on February 6,
1952 .RF.: It was Alexandre
Dumas the Younger (1824-1895) who
wrote ‘ Business? It’s quite simple. It s
other people’s money” L.C.R.:
The Royal Marriages Act arose out
of the marriages of the Duke of
Cumberland (1745-90) and the Duke
of Gloucester (1743-1805) to Mrs.
Horton and Lady Waldegrave respec-
tively. By this Act, passed in 1772,
all descendants of George 11, other
than the issue of princesses marriea
into foreign Royal families, _ rnust
obtain the sovereign’s consent belore
marriage, which is otherwise void....
G.M.R.: ‘‘Mummy-wheat, so canea
(the wheat found in tombs of ancient
Egypt), has been popularly reported
to have been observed to germinate
after being sown. However, there
seems to be no truth whatever m
the story. Careful scientific experi-
ment has shown that all real
mummy-wheat has completely lost its
vitality....F.A.: (1) No information
(2) The Manton-guns have not been
made anywhere for many years.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany . MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C.D.: The resemblance you profess
to detect between the pipes of Pan
and the wild laughter of the kooka-
burra has never occurred to us... •
R.H.T.: Unmoved by the damsel who
“inspired heavenly anthems who her
snow like purity” U-E.r. ;
“Kangaroo” went out in one bound.
J.H.J.: “Shucks,” said Bud.
“You guys sure is a lot of hot
palookas. Sorry, but we t
bring out an American edition....
W.D.: Not for us “the plaintive-
sounding note of the curlew’s call,
nor yet “the raucous bellow oi a
bull” J.8.R.: “The Singing
Drover” was gagged and sent home.
K.N.: You’ve earned one dis-
tinction ; yours was the only mother-
in-law yarn to arrive this week....
P.D.: “He rushed through the door,
sprang into a tram, leaped out and
ran madly in the opposite direction.
After that we lost track of him....
J.W.: “Uncle Bill Goes Down the
Mine.” As far as we are concerned
he can stay there K.G.: The
“wailiilg wind” and “moumiul
music of the morning” almost tore
“tempestuous tears” from our eyes.


Nearly four hundred million
pounds for wool alone! It’s a
fabulous sum—the return for
Australia’s 1953-54 Wool Clip.
To the men who have played so
vital a part in Australia’s
prosperity—the pastoralists and
graziers whose enterprise and
industry have produced such
spectacular results must go
thanks for an epoch-marking
achievement. None are more
worthy of the nation’s gratitude.
Elastrator (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. is
proud of the assistance given by
Elastrator Rings to the wool and
meat industries. In no small
degree the Elastrator method of
tailing and castrating has helped
to preserve the health and vigour
of lambs and calves when cruder
and less modem methods could
prove fatal.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Col*
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
ment illus-
trated is the
world -
famous
“FARMERS'
BOY"
ROTARY
SCYTHE
Write or telephone pour nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest youl
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd-
-46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 9U
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Buzacott’a (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
'Sole Australian Agents f
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
14 Castlereagii St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
STOCK WATERS
/CONCERNING the tolerance
of stock to saline waters
(B. 22/6/’55), it’s impossible to
lay down hard-and-fast limits
for the salt-concentration that
different animals can tolerate.
There are so many variables in-
volved. The nature of the salts,
for instance, also the type of feed
being used, climatic conditions,
the age of the stock and purpose
for which it is being raised.
Various State authorities sug-
gest maximum concentrations of
soluble salts above which a given
type of animal cannot be ex-
pected to thrive. That these con-
centrations vary from State to
State may be due to different
compositions of the saline waters
in those areas, or different con-
ditions of feeding. Other reasons
for this lack of uniformity are
the difficulty of carrying out
controlled experiments with
grazing stock and the scarcity of
reliable detailed observations
from the pastoralists.
It should be helpful if it were
possible to amass data from
pastoralists and farmers all over
the country concerning the
reactions of their animals to-
wards waters of known salt-
content under different feeding
and seasonal conditions. The
services of Government labora-
tories are available to anyone
interested in the analysis of their
water-supplies.
Horses and pigs are less
resistant to saline waters than
cattle. Sheep, on the other hand,
can tolerate higher salt-contents
than even cattle, which is a good
thing for this country’s economy.
As would be expected, animals
living on saltbush cannot handle
so much saline matter in the
water as those feeding on more
succulent herbage. Horses that
are being worked require better
water than those at grass. A
water that will keep an animal
alive in winter may kill it in
summer.
If the dissolved salts contain
unusually high proportions of
magnesium and sulphate, the
water will be less suitable than
one of the same concentration
containing only sodium-chloride.
Magnesium - sulphate (Epsom-
salts) and sodium - sulphate
(Glauber’s-salts) are much more
drastic in their effects than bi-
carbonates and sodium-chloride
(common salt).
Here in Western Australia the
proportion of sodium-chloride to
total salts is fairly constant
around 80 per cent., so the total
salt-content becomes a reason-
able measure of the suitability or
otherwise of a water.
As regards the actual content
of dissolved salts, all States agree
on at least one point: that water
containing less than 300 grains
of salts per gallon is suitable for
sheep, cattle, horses and pigs.
Variations, however, are wide in
the figures given as the maxi-
mum amounts tolerated by these
animals. Figures (in grains per
gallon) from different authorities
in various States, together with
a few from the U.S.A., are given
in the following list:
Pigs: 300 (W.A.), 500 (S.A.),
700 (U.S.A.).
Horses (working): 440 (S.A.),
450 (W.A.), 500 (S.A.), 550
(N.S.W.).
Horses (at grass): 550 (S.A.),
950 (N.S.W.).
Cattle (dairy): 500 (S.A.), 500
(W.A.).
Cattle (beef): 700 (S.A.), 700
(W.A.), 1000 (N.S.W.), 1050
(U.S.A.).
Sheep: 600 (Qld), 700 (S.A.),
(us ( a’ A ), 1350 (N - S-W - ) ’ 1750
Sheep (on saltbush): 880
(S.A.).
Sheep (on grass): 1100
(S.A.).
For those who prefer ounces
to grains, loz. equals 437*
grains. And, as a basis for com-
parison, sea-water contains about
2300 grains of dissolved salts per
gallon.
The list i§ a pretty good indi-
cation that no rigid limits can be
laid down for salinity of stock-
waters. It gives figures which
may be used as a guide, but
which must be interpreted also
in the light of experience of
local conditions.
“Warrabulla’s” observation
that sheep will switch straight
from a fresh water to a saline
one without showing any reluct-
ance to drink could apply to
waters in the vicinity of, say,
500 to 600 g.p.g. But for them
to tolerate the higher figures in
the above table, it’s a safe bet
that careful conditioning would
be necessary.
Geep.
Queensland Cattle
“Billy Bloodwood”: Re the
quotation from W. Beatty’s
Survey of the Cattle Industry in
Australia (B. 30/3/’55 The
Bully takes some time to reach
us in these parts, being passed
around a bit; and we’ve had
two “wets” this year with
phenomenal rains in May).
Mr. Beatty’s opinion is that
only about one-third of the
calves born in the remote west
of Queensland would reach
maturity because of the inability
of small calves to “stand the
long droving-trips” when “so
many of this district’s cattle find
their way south to better pastures
there during the hot season of
the year.”
Remoteness, of course, de-
pends on the writer’s position.
From where I write, Brisbane
and Sydney seem somewhat
remote. And so does the quoted
opinion. Drovers don’t start
from this end until after “the
wet.” 'Diey can’t. Mobs can’t
move in the mud. Nor would
anyone attempt to move stock
in the heat.
Again, cows and calves aren’t
included in the drovers’ mobs,
to any considerable extent. Cows
are kept for breeding future
mobs. It’s rare to see calves
among cattle being driven from
point to point in this part of the
world, and when they are born
in a mob of travellers they are
usually handed over to children
or women along the route, to be
reared as poddies.
Youngsters around the rail-
head at Kajabbi—this small
trucking-centre loads between
40,000 and 45,000 head each
season for coastal markets—do
pretty well from such pickings.
Footrot
“W.W.”: “B’gar” (B. 29/6/’55)
gives poor advice on footrot.
Half-measures, such as drafting-
off lame sheep, will never
eradicate the disease.
To give full instructions on
how to go about eradicating
footrot would take far too long
for this page. However, the basis
of any scheme must be hard
work and thoroughness in paring
every foot of every sheep in an
infected mob.
The missing of one foot may
make ineffective all the rest of
the work.
This must be followed by
isolation of all doubtful and in-
fected sheep from apparently
clean sheep. Feet of the latter
must be thoroughly soaked in a
footbath for a quarter of an
hour; then they must go on
clean ground and into a clean
paddock.
It is necessary to recheck this
apparently clean mob in about
a month to make sure no case
has been missed.
It is a help in eradication to
do the job during the dry
summer months, when the
disease is in its least active state.
For methods of treatment of
infected sheep a veterinary officer
of the Department of Agricul-
ture would give sound advice.
Thorough instruction in paring
and treatment, by an experienced
man before tackling the job, will
save a lot of time and wasted
effort.
The recent Department of
Agriculture survey of the disease
in Victoria showed that about
a quarter of the Victorian
flocks have at some time had
the disease and it has been
eradicated. What their owners
can do can be done by all, pro-
vided the job is approached on
sound lines. *
Branding Cattle
“Rufus” : “Vega” (B.
29/6/’55) describes the pro-
cedure for scruffing calves, an
operation which has little to
commend it, being a time- and
labor-consumer. The work is
hard, tempers become frayed
and the animal suffers in con-
sequence.
A much more enlightened
method is the use of a branding-
cradle, in which the calf is
adequately restrained, and which
leaves all labor free to perform
any desired combination of
operations.
In the fenced breeding-areas
of Queensland, where the prac-
tice is to brand, castrate, ear-
mark, dehorn and innoculate at
the one time, the branding-
cradle has proved indispensable,
permitting a tally of from 40 to
60 calves an hour to be put
through—this without undue
stress on the operators.
In the unfenced areas, of
course, the bronco-rail reigns
supreme.
The correct age to brand is
from three to four months (an
ideal not always attainable on
the bigger runs). Calves branded
at this age have ample time to
recover completely before wean-
ing, and there is considerably
less set-back than when they are
branded later.
Unbranded calves of the eight-
to 12-month age-group present
one of the major hazards of the
beef-industry, particularly where
fences are inadequate and mobs
cannot be separated with any
degree of certainty and perman-
ency. Nondescript bulls beget
their unattractive progeny and
heifers are put in calf before
they are properly developed.
Not much progress in up-
grading a herd can be made
under these conditions. Some
of the big stations tackle the
problem by employing men to
shoot the mickies.
Trees for Nowhere
“Bass”: “W.C.Q.” (B. 29/6/’55)
says the honey-locust is a good
tree for planting on the Darling
Downs. It isn’t. Honey-locust is
one of the mesquites, and they’re
bad trees to have anywhere.
For confirmation of this ask
the pastoralists of nor’-west
W.A., whose stations are being
overrun with mesquite, or the
W.A. Agriculture Department,
whose officers are aerial-spraying
it without much success. Or ask
Botany Professor Phillips, of the
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(10/7/’55)
Rainfall during August should be poor on the N.S.W.
coast from Sydney northwards. Better falls may occur on
the coast to the south, with moderate rains on the table-
lands, central-west and south-west slopes. There is also
the possibility of a cyclonic disturbance moving up the
south and central coasts of N.S.W. towards the close of
July, giving southerly gales and rough seas.
Good rains should continue in Western Australia
during August, and! the n.-w. coast should receive good
falls, with rams extending through the south-west agricul-
tural areas and south-eastern division.
Southern Victoria should receive good falls, hut in
the northern half rain may be lighter than usual.
Moderately good rain should continue in South Australia,
but not the interior.
LENNOX WALKER.


The price of the
BUNYIP LEVEL
was inadvertently omitted from the advertisement which
appeared in 13th July “Bulletin” and should have read
£ll/17/6.
YEOMANS Proprietary Limited,
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
•Phenov!*’—Brand of
Phenothiazine.
SI
0
1
tablet form
liquid,powder
or
in
The most effective drench
/
cheep
for
worms m
Available NOW from Your Usual Supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
N
ICI
.PHE.3SX.IUB.
University of Arizona, who
visited W.A. recently and de-
scribed mesquite as a “vicious
tree.” He also said he’d seen
better—well, anyway, bigger-
mesquites in W.A. than in their
native America, indicating that,
like a lot of other pests, the thing
thrives in this country.
The mesquite was introduced
into W.A. about 30 years ago
as a shade-and-fodder tree. At
that time there was a belief that
two varieties of this tree existed
—one a thorny or spiny type,
the other spineless ; and the ones
brought to W.A. were thought
to be spineless. Certainly they
didn’t have spines, but their
descendants have, and now it’s
accepted that there isn’t a spine-
less type at all. In fact, botanical
societies have offered a big
reward for a variety in which
spinelessness has been definitely
Iked, and no one has applied
for it yet.
Because it has a double-root-
system, mesquite thrives in
either wet or dry conditions. One
set of roots are surface-feeders
which nourish the tree during
the wet-season. They’re so
effective that nothing worth
while can grow within 40ft. of
the butt. The other set of roots
go down like tap-roots, but with
practically no diminution in size.
This is a common arrangement
with drought-resistant plants,
but in the mesquite it’s pro-
nounced.
So the plant grows all the
year, which gives it an advantage
over most native shrubs. The
deep roots will penetrate over
100 ft. below the surface, and
if the tree is chopped down or
bulldozed out these roots send
up shoots and carry on even
worse than before. It seeds fairly
prolifically, and if conditions are
unfavorable for germination the
seeds can remain dormant and
viable for years—so years, the
professor says.
How big does the tree grow?
Depends on the conditions, and
the size is an indication of the
depth of the water-table in dry
country. Where this is within
40ft. of the surface the tree will
be 40ft. or more high; if it
grows into just a fair-sized
shrub, then it’s had to go 60ft.
or more for water; and if it’s
only 2ft. or 3ft. high the water-
table is over 100 ft. down.
Already the prospects in W.A.
are frightening. On one north-
west station 1 saw a few trees —
less than a dozen —20-odd years
ago. When I visited the place a
few years back the pest had a
firm grip on 20,000 acres and
looked like taking over the entire
property. And the owner hadn’t
a clue on how to even start
attacking it.
The Wet
“Nedrium”: Land-men have
been hit hard in Queensland’s
far-north by the prolonged
“wet” this year. The area has
known few wetter six-month
periods than that to June 30,
1955 (84in.).
Cane-planting has been cut
by half in many areas.
Normally planting is done in
May or June, but by early July
many farmers had still to plant.
Mills have been held up: in the
early stages many of them were
treating green cane.
Up in the tablelands the story
is much the same. Peanut-yields
are well down, and maize-crops
have been cut by nearly half (a
£200,000 blow to the industry).
Sawmillers are worse off. Logs
which they have already paid
for are lying in forests being
eaten by borers. New logs have
not been cut because trucks
haven’t been able to get to them.
The ground is too boggy and is
taking too long to dry-out after
each fall.
Vegetable-supplies from the
tablelands to the big Cairns
market are well down on normal
years. The position has been
"Well have to eat him raw —the lighter's run out of juice.”
made worse by the grasshopper-
plague from Ravenshoe to Dim-
bulah early in the year, which
stripped cabbages and caulies.
Further down the coast,
Mackay has had one of the
worst years on record for local
vegetables.
Agricultural Courses
“Peter B.”: E. O. Schlunke
(B. 8/6/’55) is a bit hard on the
courses at N.S.W. agricultural
high schools. Admitted there’s
a lot of the useless “mangel-
wurzels” type of thing included,
but what school-subject is devoid
of this? How much algebra does
Mr. Schlunke use on his farm at
Temora?
At Yanco Agricultural High
School in 1932-33 and ’34
the practical work included
blacksmi thing, tin - smithing,
carpentry, hand- and machine-
milking, vegetable- and flower-
growing, orchard-work (pruning,
budding and the like), apart
from crop- and stock-work.
Soil-erosion was in the curricu-
lum in soil-physics, though its
importance was not emphasised
then as it is now.
To gain full benefit from any
of the agricultural high schools
the student should go on to
Wagga or Hawkesbury. As a
small farmer and grazier, I look
forward to sending my two sons
to Yanco when the time comes.
Sow Wheat Early
“Ghurka”: Sowing has been
delayed in Victoria’s Wimmera,
but cockies aren’t particularly
worried. Perhaps they’re a bit
too complacent.
True, good yields followed late
sowing up to early September, in
two recent years, but these
seasons finished exceptionally
well.
Heavy rains in October-
November-December are the ex-
ception, and not the rule. Late
sowing this year followed by an
early finish to the season could
be the end of crops before the
ear begins to rise in the sheath.
Wheat-plants need time to
grow and mature. The later the
seed is sown, the lower are the
chances of a good crop. Re-
search results at Longerenong
College, Horsham, and the
Mallee Research Station, 130
miles further north, are all in
favor of early sowing.
Early-sowing risks are not so
great these days, when selective
weedicides kill charlock and
other weeds you used to have to
kill by cultivating the fallow
before sowing the seed.
Next season, and every other
season, sow at least part of your
fallowed area before there is
any risk of tractors and com-
bines getting bogged.
Russian Comfrey
“F.S.’s D.”: Russian comfrey,
a little-known crop, when fully-
established on good land yields
very heavily. A perennial, like
lucerne, it lasts 20 years on the
same site without deterioration,
Its bunches of leaves look rather
like foxglove-plants before the
flower-stalk grows up. It gives
six or eight cuts of hay, accord-
ing to season, and has a high
ratio of protein to fibre, making
it highly-suitable for pigs and
poultry, apart from other stock.
Ever since it was introduced
from Russia into England about
1870 by Henry Doubleday, a
Quaker smallholder in Essex, its
yield and agricultural value have
been the subject of controversy
rather than research. Re-
discovery of the methods used
by Henry Doubleday and his
contemporaries to grow the
heavy crops reported by the
Royal Agricultural Society of
England in 1882 has revived
interest in this plant.
Some farmers in Britain and
Eire are co-operating in a series
of trials in growing-methods and
economic effects. On a stud-farm
at Little Weighton, Yorks, com-
frey is fed to stallions valued up
to 12,000gns. each.
It is the traditional crop fed
to pigs and calves to prevent
scouring, many farmers growing
it without a knowledge of its
other high potentials in food-
value.
Comfrey is grown in America,
New Zealand, Pakistan, El Sal-
vador and Africa, but not yet in
Australia. It must be grown from
rooted offsets, which at present
can only be obtained (with Gov-
ernment consent) from J. E.
Gibson, St. Martin’s, Guernsey,
Channel Islands.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: Grow green-
manure crops on empty
vegetable-beds during winter,
particularly in sandy soils. Bar-
ley, oats and rye should be
sown at loz. of seed to the
square yard, broadcast. Sow
broad-beans 4in. apart in rows
lft. 6in. apart; lupins, loz. to
three square yards, and peas li
to the square yard. The legumes
are best suited to the loamy
soils, the cereals to light-sandy
and heavy-clay soils.
“W. Court”: Stopping the
vines from rooting at the joints
will increase the yield from
sweet-potatoes. Cutting the
vines back periodically isn’t as
good as training them up a wire-
netting fence, or over a wall of
brush laid beside the row. With
joint-rooting checked, the vines
develop big tubers. Keep plenty
of soil up to them to block
weevils, and spray the tops with
lead-arsenate lib. to 40gal.
water.
“Solo”: Branches of fruit-
trees infected by wood-rotting
fungi should be cut off and
burnt. All cuts and scars on the
trees should be covered with a
bituminous paint and kept
covered until callusing is com-
plete. The fungus is closely
related to mushrooms and toad-
stools. It is generally fan- or
lumped-shaped and of a corky
texture. If the tree-trunk is
infected pull out the tree.
“Doc.”: Cows that are drying-
off need not be milked right out,
as any milk in the udder will be
reabsorbed in the bloodstream.
Dried-off cows should not be
put in a paddock and forgotten.
Given suitable and sufficient
feed, they will repay the care at
the next milking-period.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There** a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that's when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, dassers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too —7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Aboriginal Problem
The row over the barring of aborigines
and colored people from certain ameni-
ties controlled by Moree (N.S.W.) muni-
cipal authorities brings to notice a condi-
tion not peculiar to that part of the con-
tinent. On the outskirts of a good many
of our country towns there are collections
of huts, shacks and cribs where relics
of the indigenous population, despite well-
meaning efforts by the Protection Board
and some others, not only disfigure the
landscape, but jar the consciences of
many a thoughtful witness.
- A few years back I saw something of
these shanty-towns, and if they have not
improved greatly since then, we Austra-
lians should consider to what extent we
are justified, logically and ethically, in
spending millions on the so-called back-
ward peoples in Asia while these deplor-
able conditions obtain at home.
The extent to which the abos of settled
areas are deficient in hygiene or moral
conduct is also the extent of our failure
as their protectors and mentors. The
responsibility rests squarely on us, more
particularly on our politicians ; if we can
show nothing better after a century and
a half of contact, we have made a pretty
poor fist of the job to which so much
lip-service is given.
If an aboriginal boy or girl passes a
school-examination, or attains to a career
that is commonplace among us, it makes
headline news. If an aboriginal boy
reveals a tendency to athletics, he is
exploited as a pug; otherwise he is
relegated to any kind of unskilled job
beyond the ambit of urban life.
To compare the aboriginal with the
Maori in relation to white men’s tutelage
is a false analogy ; the two races are dis-
parate both in origin and attributes.
Nevertheless, it is sobering for us to
know that, because of the generally en-
lightened attitude of New Zealanders over
nearly a century, Maoris have attained to
the highest offices, politically and pro-
fessionally, in the Dominion ; and while
old “wahines” may still smoke their pipes
in “whares,” their sons and grandsons
take their places in a mixed society, with
credit to themselves and to their white
compatriots.
Witness Sir James Carroll, Deputy-
Prime Minister of New Zealand
for many years; Dr. Peter Buck,
Director of Public Health; and
a host of other scions of a savage
stock. Who can doubt that, given like
treatment, the sons and daughters of our
indigenous people would, despite their
rapidly fading numbers, leave a mark on
the life of this country as have their
brown brothers across the Tasman?
The problem is not one for sentiment-
alism or humbug; it is one that will
“At least We've still got our health .”
suiely bring a heap of trouble to this
country unless tackled as a matter of
policy, directed by justice. If the Aus-
tralian attitude towards, and treatment of,
< ? ur ab orig^ es fell within the ambit of
■~ e / r . us / ee Council of the United Nations,
that international body would ask for
something more than the work of Albert
Namatjira and some diaspora of shacks
r\i catlon * or our trusteeship.—F. A.
(JN.b.W.),
Surveyors
“R.H.G.’s” claim (B. 22/6/’55) that
the Australian licensed-surveyor is the
most highly-qualified man in the world
at his game at present is nonsense. In-
deed, his information that, in one recent
year, not one candidate in W.A. and only
one in Queensland passed their exams,
suggests that only limited training is
available to these would-be surveyors.
The subjects referred to by “R.H.G.”
are “typical subjects” only, and are ex-
pected of any surveyor worthy of the
name in any country. The Royal Institu-
tion of Chartered Surveyors, London, lists
all those subjects, and many other “non-
typical” subjects, in its series of qualify-
ing exams, for all branches of the calling.
It is, perhaps, the lack of these non-
typical subjects that so restricts the Aus-
tralian licensed-surveyor: He is also
restricted in practice, being mainly con-
cerned with suburban subdivisions. The
absence of a. national Ordnance Survey is
also another setback for more advanced
work; a surveyor without an ordnance
as the very foundation of his work is
rather like a musician playing without a
score.
I don’t know the laws elsewhere, but
in Victoria it is impossible for an over-
seas surveyor to obtain a licence unless
he qualifies locally, and in order to do
that he must become an articled pupil.
There is no direct examination —which
might be the best way to test all who
come here claiming to be surveyors.
It is indeed a closed shop, as “R.H.G.”
claims, and that is not to the credit of
the calling.— Pommy Surveyor (Vic.).
Maitland and Floods
While committees deliberate and
opposing factions rail against each other
over the proposal to shift the flood-
shattered city of Maitland (N.S.W.) to
higher ground, some of the citizens seem
to have had no difficulty in deciding their
course.
The spectacle of houses being towed
along the Pacific Highway to the high
ground can be seen almost daily, and
many more houses, observed during a
recent visit, carry signs announcing their
impending flight from the danger-zone.
It was also noticed that the expressions
of those home-owners remaining left
little room for doubt as to what they’d
do if they had land elsewhere and the
money to move.
Most of the shops in High-streeti
appeared to be back in business, though
many still carry on their walls the brown
stain left by the floodwaters; the
shopping-centre seemed to lack its former
air of solid security, based on more than
a century of stability and prosperity, and
there seemed fewer people about than
formerly.
From trees and fences in other parts
of the town there still hang long
streamers of washed-out crops and grass,
as high in some places as the adjoining
rooftops. The most convincing reason
I saw for moving lies in a deep hollow
beside the highway—a vast mudheap into
which bulldozers were still pushing silt
and debris, and from which protrude the
gaunt remains of flood-shattered furni-
ture and sodden lumps of bedding, once-
prized possessions now not worth even
the trouble of identification,
The “stay-put” advocates claim that to
move the business-section would cause
hardship ; if that’s the case, then I’d be
interested indeed to learn their term for
what they endured—with amazing forti-
tude—a few short months ago.
My own views are colored by still-
vivid memories of long night-hours spent
at a mike, broadcasting messages that
might never be heard by those for whom
they were intended, or bulletins telling
of suffering no human being should have
to endure. Imagine, for instance, that
you’re a man marooned, with a wife near
her time and a fear-crazed child, in waist-
deep water and pouring rain for hour
after hour of darkness —that’s just one
case I recall.
As I write this, rain is falling again
over the Hunter Valley. Maybe it will
clear tomorrow or the next day, but
thousands in the area, glancing at the
grey skies, cannot but remember that
they thought the same thing last
February.— Gulliver (N.S.W.).
Protected Birds
In Geelong (Vic.) City Court five New
Australians were fined a fiver each, with
costs, for having shot native birds in a
“Shh, dear! Poor things cant help looking funny."
sanctuary at a near-by forestry reserve,
They apparently had a shot at everything
they saw on wings—the charge-sheets
mentioned red wattle-birds, white-winged
choughs, fantail-cuckoos, eastern-rosellas
and crimson-rosellas.
The excuse given by the offenders, all
of whom bore distinctly Italian names,
was that the birds were good for eating,
If we are to protect our native birds—
and, from the frequent accounts of
indiscriminate shootings by new arrivals
in this country, they need more effective
protection than they are getting—
measures will have to be taken to impress
on the new citizens that, with few excep-
tions, the destruction of our feathered
fauna is absolutely prohibited.
A good deal of useful publicity could
be given to our game-laws with the co-
operation of shops and stores selling
rifles, shotguns and ammunition. These
could display suitably worded warnings
in several European languages. Multi-
lingual notices could also be displayed in
country areas, particularly in the various
reserves and sanctuaries.— Doynest
(Yj c \
The Little Shopkeepers
During his Australian visit, Mr. C. I.
Johnston, chairman of directors of the
United States Chamber of Commerce,
stressed the danger of stifling free enter-
prise with an increasing blanket of con-
trols. His statement undoubtedly reflected
the view B of most U.S. businessmen. In
N. S. Wales, however, there has been a
tendency for business to go along with
the Government rather than to defy its
intrusions into free enterprise.
Notable exceptions are the small shop-
keepers, of whom more than 1000 have
united under the banner of the Shop-
keepers’ Political Action Committee for
a successful drive to rid themselves of
the shackles of price-control. Within less
than a year they have become conscious
of their own latent political strength and
are aware they can build or shatter politi-
cal fortunes. They know that, because
they meet the nation’s women, they can
achieve even more than can a solidly-
organised trade-union. A simple story,
simply told, can easily be handed over
the counter with the change.
The Shopkeepers’ Political Action
Committee (S.P.A.C.) hit-back at the
Trades Hall snoopers who had been
hounding shopkeepers for the “crime” of
selling food to harassed housewives after
an arbitrarily-fixed closing-hour. For
five days an S.P.A.C. man checked the
dozens of cars parked in the prohibited
Trades Hall area. At least 30 motorists
consistently broke the law by parking
there for hours on end. Most, it was dis-
covered, belonged to Trades Hall officials
and union-bosses. S.P.A.C. sent the list
of offenders to Police Commissioner
Delaney. Next day the “brown bombers”
were assiduous in the locality.
S.P.A.C. made good propaganda use
of the fining of a Pendle Hill woman for
selling a roast chicken to a Sunday
traveller. Her fine was paid by S.P.A.C.,
and the public, through newspaper pub-
licity, became aware of the wicked
“common informer” system whereby a
prosecuting union pockets half the fine
imposed by the Industrial Court.
Through sheer pressure of public opinion
prosecutions dwindled to a mere trickle,
and Shop Assistants’ Federation secretary
Ernie O’Dea was forced to transfer his
attentions to centres far distant from
Sydney.
Last June S.P.A.C. paid the fines of
three hard-working milkmen who were
actually fined for starting work too early
in an honest attempt to give their custo-
mers efficient service. S.P.A.C. also
financially assisted a number of struggling
Sydney and Newcastle storekeepers fined
for selling such items as butter and head-
ache-powders after 5.30 p.m. This year
the committee will inaugurate a fighting
fund” to provide legal and other aid for
traders.
S.P.A.C. has vigorously campaigned
against the Government’s move to license
and regiment traders of every kind and
place them at the mercy of a horde of
inspectors and snoopers. S.P.A.C. has
even sponsored an independent anti-
Socialist-Labor candidate to oppose the
sitting member for Bondi, Mr. A. Landa
(Minister for Labor and Industry), at
next year’s elections,
Many small shopkeepers in N. S. Wales
have in the past voted for Labor’s high-
wage policy because it increased the tum-
over of their shops But they have had
them fill of controls and ot toeing
Socialist line Each year they are obliged
to seek almost numberless hcences,
including a shop-trading licence, tobacco-
permit, milk-vendor s licence smallgoods-
lienee and mflammable-spints licence. It
they want to open for an hour or wo on
the Sabbath there is the Sunday-trading
licence. Any one of these may be witn-
held or denied at the whim of an
inspector or departmental pen-pusher. —
A. Brammall, N.S.W. secretary, Shop-
keepers’ Political Action Committee,
M j Grow Rich
For oye ° ~ j have been buying
from a po ultryfarmer, and going by
moani over that iod> he has
al been mnning his farm a t a loss.
This week he told me he could pro duce
fi to shf)w k was costing him a
shmi a dozen more to pro duce eggs
than he was receiving f or them. Each
time there is a rise in the price it is always
too small, and every time there is a drop
be claims that it is unjustified and that he
j s seriously thinking of going out of the
egg-business and taking a job on the local
c ~ nciL
During this period of running his farm
at a j oss be bas budt a new home costing
over £5OOO, and another new home, almost
as costly, for his son. He buys a new-
model car about every three years, takes
a month’s holiday every year, and gener-
aby enjoys the good things of life,
This is not just an isolated case, either,
Almost any poultryfarmer will give you a
similar mournful story, criticising the
Egg Board, the Government and every
other body.
After listening to the tale of woe for
years I thought I would be able to buy
one of these poultryfarms at a bargain-
price, but what a different story then,
The farmer will produce figures to show
just what a thriving busines he owns; it
is only because of sickness, old age, etc.,
that he is selling. —Eureka (N.S.W.).


Money or Leisure?
Much of the argument against the 40-
fiour week springs from that old human
desire to look back on the good old days
(which usually exist only in a bad old
memory) and a refusal to see things as
they are today.
Certainly, men do not work as hard
today as they did a mere 20 years ago,
particularly on the bullocking jobs. Why
should they?
Work for the sake of working has
little to recommend it. If it took 1000
navvies with picks and shovels to build
a road 50 years ago, and the same road
can be built today by 100 men with four
bulldozers and other machines, is there
any virtue or sense in refusing to use the
machines?
The bulldozer-driver works hard, but
not so hard as his father did on the wheel-
barrow. There’s no reason why he should.
Because his efforts produce more by the
use of machinery he must be given a share
of that production, and he can take it out
in more leisure or more money.
As things have happened, he has
decided to take some of each. It is quite
natural that he should want still more —
we all do.
This applies throughout industry and
particularly where the man or woman
plays only an insignificant part in pro-
duction. The tendency is to want more
and more leisure' rather than more and
more money, if only to get away from the
monotony of the job.
Where a man is working at the job he
likes he will work the most outrageous
hours and is often exploited for that,
although in other cases he may pile up
tremendous overtime payments or, if
working for himself, a decent-sized bank
balance.
But it’s all a matter of choice—more
leisure or more money or more satisfac-
tion in a job well done and enjoyed in
the doing. Basically, there is nothing
wrong with any of those choices.—
Mutton Jeff (Q.).
Troops for Malaya
For anyone who has lived in Malaya,
it is impossible to believe, as “8 Punjab”
suggests (B. 8/6/’55), that Australian
troops could be held there as a “strategic
reserve” without participating in tne
lighting against Communist bandits.
Troops stationed anywhere on the
mainland of Malaya are likely to be in-
volved at any time in action against the
bandits, who do not move in recognised
military movements, but are terrorists
likely to strike unexpectedly.
Would Australian troops stand by and
watch other troops—of whom there are
many thousands of various nationalities
—do the fighting? If I know anything
of the spirit of Australian soldiers —1
seived in the infantry from the Landing
to the Armistice—they will be in any
fighting that is on and would not look to
other troops to protect them.
The only alternative—if the troops were
to be deliberately kept out of the fighting
—would be to quarter them in barracks
on Singapore or Penang islands. The
former is a British colony and is not
included in the Federation of Malaya.
Penang was a colony until the formation
of the Federation after the 1939-45 war,
when, much against the wishes of the
inhabitants of the island, it was included
in the Federation. Terrorist activities
are not unknown in Singapore and
Penang, but they are spasmodic and on
a smaller scale than on the mainland.
Australian troops would not appreciate
being stationed in comfortable modem
barracks on islands while soldiers of other
nationalities are serving under more-or-
less active-service conditions on the
mainland. Added to which, the experience
they will gain of jungle-fighting will
stand them in good stead should large-
scale warfare eventuate.— Orang Puteh
(N.S.W.).
Radio-announcing
Ask the average Australian adolescent
whether or not, given the opportunity, he
would like to be a radio-announcer, and
nine times out of 10 the answer will be
“Yes.” Yet seldom has he the necessary
initial qualifications.
First, he must have a flair, a distinct
aptitude for the calling (interest is not
enough); a naturally pleasant voice (cul-
tivated tones are rarely acceptable); and,
as he is, in effect, an actor, he must have
a measure of histrionic ability.
An academic education is desirable,
though by no means essential, but a know-
ledge of English and a reasonably com-
prehensive general knowledge are
necessary.
It has often been suggested that an-
“I've got a search-warrant, miss.”
nouncers are non-ereative, yet much of a
trained announcer’s time is devoted to
surely. I am not
talking about the specialist—the sports-
commentator, the interviewer, the news-
reader, etc. —but about the microphone-
man known as the “duty”-announcer, who
presents general programmes and, if in
commercial radio, reads credits and
advertising announcements. These latter,
for various reasons,-often need paraphras-
ing, editing and general tidying-up by the
announcer.
An announcer’s nerves must be sound,
he must be capable of making split-second
decisions, and he must be prepared to
accept responsibility for errors which very
often originate in departments other than
his own. The microphone is regarded—
naturally enough, I suppose —as a “mis-
take-filter.”
Despite some popular assumption,
“routine” announcers do not receive
enormous salaries. The present award is
£l5 10s. in Sydney and Melbourne and
ss. less in Brisbane and Adelaide. Those
rates are based on the Federal basic wage
(capital cities weighted average), plus a
margin for skill. Few receive much above
the award.
Broken shifts and much late-night and
weekend work are not confined to radio-
announcing, but a good nine-to-five, five-
day-week job has its advantages by
comparison.
I’ve had nearly two decades at metro-
politan microphones and enjoyed them,
but my advice to aspiring radio-
announcers who cannot meet the require-
ments and conditions listed in the fore-
going is the same as that of Mr. Punch to
those contemplating marriage.— Mike
(Q).
Helicopter Services
The' helicopter 'should be particularly
suitable as a means of transport to close
but inaccessible districts, such as most
cities possess.
Kurnell, near Sydney, is one. On the
south side of the entrance to Botany Bay,
it can be reached from the city only by
tram to La Perouse and across the heads
by launch —or miles round by road.
There is no direct rail- or bus-connection.
Kumell is a tourist-attraction, having
its small part in Australian history: there
Captain Cook landed from the Endeavour
on April 30, 1770, the first time he set
foot on Australian soil. Up to date it has
been too difficult to get to, to be the
tourist-resort it should be. Now it is the
site of a big oil-refinery, at present under
construction.
Better transport-facilities to .Kurnell
are needed, and for passengers the heli-
copter seems the complete answer.
The helicopter should prove particu-
larly suited for conveyance over water
wherever traffic is sufficient. As well as
Sydney to Manly (the proposed inaugura-
tory service) and Sydney to Kurnell, New-
castle should have profitable routes for
the rotor-plane. Also, as has been sug-
gested, Melbourne to Queenscliff and
Geelong across Port Phillip Bay.
Indeed, helicopter-services should be of
all-round advantage to Australia and it’s
to be hoped there is no great delay in
starting them. — Kaymara (N.S.W.).
British Liberals *
The British elections kept Liberal
strength in the House of Commons to
six, as in the previous Parliament. On
the decline for about 40 years, the party’s
strength shows no signs of recovery. Only
the introduction of proportional-repre-
sentation could increase the number of
Liberal members.
In spite of this, the Liberal summer-
school and -conference, which has bred
many a valuable political- and social-
survey, has had its influence on Tory and
Socialist alike. Indeed, it has often been
suggested that one reason for the Liberal
decline has been that Right and Left
have steadily annexed all the best points
of policy offered by the Liberals.
Sir Anthony Eden is now suggesting
profit-sharing (“call it co-partnership or
whatever you like”) as a solution to the
nation’s industrial troubles. Co-partner-
ship has been the main Liberal plank for
at least the last seven years. Sir Anthony
will be able to find many pointers in the
files of the “Liberal Magazine” and in
reports of Liberal conferences to help in
his industrial-partnership schemes.
Perhaps the Liberals will finish with
no Parliamentary representation at all,
but as long as the party’s organisation
remains the fount of dependable advice
for all parties the major part of the
present Liberal influence will remain.—
Bruce Muirden (Q.).
U.K. As Supplier of Capital
There was an increase of interest
by American organisations and indi-
viduals in the opportunities for invest-
ment offered by Australia just around
the time of the British “election” Budget.
The opportunities are certainly available
in Australia, but the Americans are not
going to have it all their own way. Britain
is coming back into the investment
market strongly, and is going to use all
the advantages of Commonwealth
association in Australia and elsewhere.
The Chancellor, Mr. Butler, told the
Commons that Britain now had to resume
its “traditional position as main supplier
of capital for the development of the
Commonwealth and colonial empire
which offers such inspiring oppor-
tunities.” He said that heavy liabilities
had been taken on for the colonies and
the Colombo Plan, and that increasing
facilities were being made available to
Commonwealth Governments in the
London market.
The Chancellor showed that the
remarkable expansion of the economy
which has enabled this burden to be
undertaken at a time when taxes could
also be cut was due to the continuously
rising production, which was making the
United Kingdom “increasingly inde-
pendent.” This, he declared, would “have
profound effects on our economy, our
morale and our influence in world
affairs.”
During 1954 industrial production
rose by more than six per cent., the
increase in exports was well maintained
and the rise in investments continued.
Britain still adhered to her policy of the
collective approach with the Common-
wealth, Europe and the U.S.A. to a solu-
tion of world trade and currency prob-
lems. She still sought to find with her
partners the best method of freeing her
payments to match the widening of her
trade and the opening of markets. These
were encouraging statements, carrying
implications worthy of study by Aus-
tralian politicians, industrialists and
thoughtful wage-earners alike. — In the
Act (A.C.T.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 339
Across
I—Reckons1 —Reckons Miss Hepburn is to
behave like Miss Henie. (6-5)
6—Father has reduced, but hasn’t
lost the thing that most reducing
is aimed at. (3)
B—Cowboy’s epitaph was unable to
tie to the tie when art students
are violently forced to work.
(6, 2,3, 4)
30— Miss Williams’s nephew regards
her as such an international
examination by her, but there’s
tuna in it. (4, 6)
31— Kitty crying after the south
seabird. (4)
14— Seabirds turning into a seabird.
(4)
15— Until Asia fits into Portugal. (9)
17—The o.c. is put in irons during
operations. (9)
20—Rose to stab. (4)
22 Shot into boloney. (4)
23 — A primitive music-maker intro-
duces Taurus and Leo, perhaps.
t. 4-6)
25 —Some share in plotting a result
of careless butchering and careless
cookjng. (1, 6,2, 3,3)
27 — Impose upon a drone. (3)
28— Hard-working river ensemble
going to America. (11)
Down
1 — He avoided open battle with the
great Hannibal character in
“Twelfth Night.” (6)
2 Simple ties for “The Sydney
Morning Herald” what may be
made by ships on the move.
(6,5)
3 Again put up with a dance
attended by a girl and a boy.
(10)
4 Hers comes after the six-footer
stamen-tops. (7)
5 Where the commonest vowel
might be found hiding paradise.
(4)
6 First way off the wood. (3)
7 Bush clothes are not suitable for
such a pull by the north-west
listener. (4-4)
9—Alcibiades as an infant aggre-
gate. (5)
12 — Operatic heroine affected by the
heat, but not too much, accord-
ing to musicians. (2, 3,6)
13 — She who produced thne pace? (10)
16—Drinking money? (4, 4)
18— Bribed with pennies not shaped
like pennies. (7)
19— Essay on equipment for fishing
fizzy drinks. (7)
21 —Treves’s people who don’t give
in easily. (6)
24 —I have a broken leg at first, but
he is Italian here. (4)
26 —Some science or religion when I
am on the bench. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 338


THIANSWIR
TO RtSMO
=instal
Mars Modern Machine Tools
for immediate results
MARS m" X 22" SWING
A.G.H. LATHE
Heavy Duty Lathe.
15 H.P. Drive.
Precision Roller Bearing Headstock.
Forward and Reverse Control.
Injection and Umbrella Lubrication.
Wide Bed.
Large Removable Gap.
Available 63in. to 144 in. Centres.
s
■ n
BR
p . * „it'.«**{ft"-
s?i
nUPjungffiPS
B
4NWAs* '■■** * ■*.■
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
VA
a:
apfir
m .■
Sr
W*
m-
m
m
11
«as
■
■ »'!
i
il
BRf
=7
?-v"C:
H
MARS No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
9 Wide range of speeds and feeds.
• 10 H.P. Drive.
® Rapid Power Traverse.
® Meehanite Castings. @ Ball and Roller Bearings
throughout.
© Supplied under signed warranty.
• Supplied under Schlesinger Comparison Certificate.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
MARS 14i" X 60" SWING
A.G.H. LATHE A
Lathe bed weight—7 tons.
3 Bearing Main Spindle.
60in. Swing through Gap.
Triple Slideway Bed.
Force-feed and Umbrella Lubrication.
Forward and Reverse Control.
Heavy Duty Design.
25 H.P. Drive.
Wlr
*mg£ §l®
m ¥ •
:
Hh
■ -
SB^::-r
ft:.'
WigL^JHi
p m
WU i
■*
x ; -::v'v:-:o:.,;;-:-:-vW^^ : : : :v
IMifPMi®;
»i x i
■ |».. ■ gr ~ ■
iiagiliMißßsgl 1 " ■ T "' -* r
™mmS J ''
IMMEDIATE DELIVE
■
23S
a.
1
■
£
;
m
s
o
V
E
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. VIC.: Herbert
Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. N.S.W. AND QUEENSLAND: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co.
Pty. Ltd., Brisbane. TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins Street, Hobart. INDIA, BOMBAY PROVINCE: R. S. Mehta & Co. (
Ali Chambers, Fort, Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaw Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
MAKING THE LARGEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S, Advert
