

t
okP m '
I
*
e
SWEET OR DRY
555Z32E32J3
The Bulletin
SOME WOMEN ARE LADIES — PAGE 27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3943
Wednesday, September 7, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W„ Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 262: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
IN THE GRAND PUMP ROOM OF BATH MANY FAMOUS MEN HAVE MET
THE Georgian city of Bath lies in the Avon valley at the junction of the
Memdip range of hills and the Cotswolds in Somerset. It is essentially
an 18th-century city, the finest example in existence of the civic-planning and
dignified architecture of that decisive period in English social development.
Its handsome streets and magnificent buildings, such as the Royal Crescent,
the Circus, Queen Square. Pulteney-street and the Parades, are monuments
to that great architect, John Wood. He and other architects of the 18th
century, who built these stately edifices, appreciated the natural beauties of
the situation, and realised the possibilities of the honey-colored Bath stone
as a building-material.
One of the finest and most widely-known buildings in Bath is the Grand
Pump Room, built in 1797 to replace an earlier one of 1706, which stood on
the site of the Roman Temple of Sul-Minerva. During excavations many
Roman relics were discovered, the most important of which included a bronze
head of Minerva and fragments of a stone-pediment, on which was carved a
representation of the head of the Gorgon Medusa. In the spacious interior
of the Pump Room, where the waters are served for drinking, is a statue of
Beau Nash, the self-appointed master-of-ceremonies in the early 18th century.
He organised entertainments and attracted society to Bath, which became the
resort of fashion and the leading health-spa in England,
The Pump Room incorporates a modern bathing-establishment, where the
famous hot-springs rise at a temperature of 120 deg. F. at a constant daily
flow of half-a-million gallons of the most highly radio-active mineral-water m
the British Isles. The Hot Springs Physical Treatment Centre is one of the
finest in Europe.
At the height of its fame Bath attracted many people famous in litera-
ture, art and science, or in the service of the State, such as Admiral 1 hillip,
founder of Australia, who lived at No. 19 Bennett-street. Other famous names
associated with Bath were Gainsborough, Jane Austen, Dickens, Wordswoit ,
Goldsmith, Sheridan, Fanny Burney, Mrs. Siddons, Chatham, Burke ana
Clive of India.


iiiikl
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“1 bad four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
tohdmm
! 100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St,
j Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
'- —CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— —-
! To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
! gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
• your Literary Courses.
[ MY NAME
| ADDRESS
| (S-B. 1755) AGE
BOOKHUNXER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obta
volume, let us find it for you— fiction, text boo ,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if -
The Red Page
LOUIS BECKE
Louis Becke’s stories in Angus and
Robertson’s reprint of By Reef and
Palm read better now than I thought
them to be. There is a nostalgic
flavor of the lost island life about
them; and what a spiritual loss those
islands are now to the dream of escape
they once inspired, generated by
“Typee” and “Oomoo”!
I knew Becke slightly in his last
years and (at “The Bulletin’s” invita-
tion) will try to set down some personal
recollections —though I have very
little worth recalling. It annoys me
now that I didn’t try to gamer some
of Becke’s own personal recollections,
for I have been told that he was a
better raconteur than a writer, though
that counts for little when the spoken
word is transferred to writing. But
perhaps it was too late to extract from-
Becke some essence of the man he had
been, for he was in the last stages of
t.b. and dying on his feet; a thin,
hawk-faced, emaciated man with a
ragged, drooping moustache, muffled
up in an ulster and speaking in a husky
voice that had lost all resonance.
It was at “The Bulletin” that I met
him first, where he had come to see
me about designing a cover for some
Bully Hayes stories he had written for
Rowlandson of the N.S.W. Bookstall
publications. Rowlandson had sent
me a proof-copy of the stories, which
I had read, but have now forgotten.
I suspect they were a hack job, to
make a little money, for Becke, like all
his generation of writers, could never
have made even a bare living out of
his writings. I discussed a suitable
cover-subject with Becke, and he
selected an episode of Hayes fighting
another character. As there was no
portrait of Hayes extant, I had Becke
describe him to me, and kept making
sketches from his description, which
Becke kept correcting till he was satis-
fied that I had got a fair enough
representation of Hayes.
As an amusing footnote to that
experiment of portraiture by use of
another person’s eyes, I was shown that
cover many years later by a man who
did not know that I had perpetrated
it. He was collecting material for a
life of Bully Hayes, and told me that
the Hayes of my cover was under-
stood to be an authentic portrait of
Hayes, as it had been drawn by a
man whp had known him. I was able
to enlighten him as to what authenticity
the portrait possessed.
I next met Becke in Rowlandson’s
office, when I brought in the finished
cover. On leaving we turned into a
pub, and over a couple of drinks we
had some talk, of which I recollect
only one item. In my teens in Mel-
bourne I had worked for a frowsy little
crime-and-sporting rag named the
“Hawklet,” on the staff of which there
was an old journalist named Watty
Watkins. He had followed many
devious occupations in his time: actor,
butcher, prospector, sailor, island-
trader; and in that last capacity, like
Becke, he had served for a time as
supercargo to Bully Hayes. He told
me that Hayes had a wife aboard, a
fine stamp of a woman, according to
old Watty, but a bit of a termagant in
her cups. On that score, possibly,
Hayes decided to dispense with any
more marital conflict by taking her for
a row in the harbor one night and
throwing her overboard. At least, he
rowed off from the schooner with her
and came back without her, so the
throwing overboard was presumed.
I repeated this story to Becke and
asked him if it was true. He said he
had heard some yam to that effect, as
happening before he met Hayes. He
seemed slightly reticent about his per-
sonal contact with Hayes, which may
have been due to a nostalgic partisan-
ship for the tough characters of his
youth, or perhaps he was too tired to
pump-up talk about them.
His death followed shortly after
those brief meetings, which occurred
at the time we were all pitched up to a
high state of enthusiasm over starting
the “Lone Hand” magazine. That
production, by an editorial inspiration
from Archibald, was the means of
killing Becke. Archie was in a tremen-
dous state of exhilaration over
inaugurating the magazine, erupting
ideas for stories, illustrations and
feature articles with hectic exuberance,
and one of his notions was to send
Becke up to Kosciusko to describe the
snows. Becke went, and the snows
killed him before he had time to
describe them. A good ending for
Becke, whose life had never designed
him for an ignominious bedridden
conclusion.
Norman Lindsay.
THE SPRING
That spring of words, that gush of joy,
The fountain from the heart of dark
That scatters into brilliant light
Refracted in a thousand stars
Is locked in the plutonic night
At the deep bottom of my mind.
I took my trembling hazel-rod
And with the longing of despair ,
Divined, divined in the dark night
Over the barren scarps of thought
For that clear spring, that secret source
Where all unwritten poems lie.
The rod was bent, the spring released,
The dark erupted into day,
Stars that were words, words that were
stars
Shot upwards in a stream of light
And in their falling radiance
I stood amazed, bedazzled, blind.
Like thirsting, shipwrecked sailors who
Cup hands to catch the falling rain
I stretched my hands to catch the words
And caught as much as may be kept
In the threads of nothing’s net
Or in the eye of violet.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Ants and Butterflies
If only because he has some surpris-
ing information about Australian ants,
Colin Wyatt’s Going Wild (Hollis and
Carter) should be read with special
interest in this country. Mr. Wyatt’s
hobby is butterflies, and here he found
“a genus of most gorgeous butterflies,
the Ogyris,” whose larvae, as soon as
they hatch high in the gum-trees, are
seized by large black-and-yellow sugar-
ants and carried off to the ants’ under-
ground nests: —
These larvae do no harm to the
ants ; quite the contrary. They are,
in fact, the ants’ cows. They secrete
a honey-like fluid from a gland
behind the head which the ants value
highly. All day long the ants keep
them in stables down in their nests,
milk them assiduously, then at night
drive them 50 or 60 feet up the tree
to pasture on the mistletoe. They
guard them carefully, driving them
back again to the nest before
dawn The caterpillars seem in-
capable of finding their own way to
pasture, and the ants herd them,
just like a cowherd, prodding the
stragglers to make them keep up with
the rest, heading back on the course
any that wander off sideways by
butting them with their heads.
Mr. Wyatt has, in fact, quite a lot to
say about the birds, beasts and bugs of
this country. He caught Sydney’s first
specimen of the cabbage-eating Small
White when, in 1941, it arrived in
N. S. Wales as a small token of esteem
from Melbourne (which got it from
New Zealand). He has watched the
platypus and the echidna. He thinks
our humble flannel-flowers are ‘‘much
more ‘noble’ and much more ‘white’ ”
than edelweiss. He has ridden after
brumbies with George Day, whose
“ranch” lies “right under the 6000 ft.
western face of the Australian Alps.”
During the war he was doing camou-
flage in N. S. Wales and elsewhere, and
catching butterflies at Kiama. He has
been to the Barrier Reef, where: —
Rocky cliffs rose out of the water,
festooned with long sprays of brown-
and-yellow orchids that sprang from
every crevice. In every glade great
black-and-white Crow butterflies
(.Euploea spp .) flapped lazily about
to the peaceful accompaniment of
cooing pigeons occasionally flashing
overhead, gleaming white and
black.
And he is one of the very few travel-
lers from abroad who, far from finding
our bush “monotonous,” know, as not
all Australians themselves yet know,
the proper way to look at it; which is
to look into it:—
I have often heard people call the
Australian bush monotonous, and so
it may be if one merely looks at it
from a distance. To appreciate it
you must get inside it and walk along
the sandy tracks through thickets of
white, red and golden-flowered
shrubby plants in the dappled sun-
light beneath the smooth columnar
trunks of the gums. These are of
every imaginable hue, some, in the
deeper valleys, a smooth shining
silver... . Others are a soft lilac,
others a salmon-pink, yet others a
soft, pale yellow. Many are slashed
and striped with colors as gay as a
woman’s dress.... ..And often
through the undergrowth rise the
wattles, our mimosa, soft feathery
sprays of gloriously perfumed golden
yellow.
It is a pity, since he thus tastes all
countries for their essences, that Mr.
Wyatt did not make a similar connois-
seur’s approach to Australian history,
instead of just saying that we haven’t
any. After all, Europe itself has had
quite a deal of history in the last 150
years; and so, to say nothing of what
went before, have we. But that, in a
book generally so free from superficiali-
ties, is a minor detail.
Still touching on places of immediate
interest to readers in this half of the
globe, one can follow Mr. Wyatt to
New Zealand, where in his capacity as
a council member of the Ski Club of
Great Britain he was invited in 1936 by
the N.Z. Government to advise on
winter-sport development and to set
standard courses for ski-tests, and
where he had a great night stalking
kiwis at Doubtful Sound; or up to New
Guinea, where he met the superb Bird-
wing butterflies, saw ants making a
bridge of their own bodies like Dr.
Doolittle’s monkeys, found a grass-
hopper tenanted by a tapeworm more
than Bin. long and, trying to climb a
mountain in Papua when prowling
Japanese stragglers were likely to add
to the excitement, got most memorably
bushed:—
Eventually we faintly heard the
roar of the river and struggled to-
wards it, but even this small aid in
direction was lost when a terrific
thunderstorm opened up, completely
drowning every other sound. It was
a nightmare. We were in thick
jungle and had to hack every foot
forward. The torches just showed
a tangle of stems. All around us
were luminous fungi, and long bits
of luminous wood gleamed weirdly
with a green light. Curious noises
came from the darkness, and
leggety insects kept running across
our faces and necks. At last we
found the river and crossed it, only
to find that it had forked and we
had the worst branch ahead!
But, with his special interests of
butterfly-hunting and skiing to give
point to his wanderings and to take
him far from the tourist-routes, Mr.
Wyatt is the ideal travel-writer, and
it is just as interesting to go with him,
miles from our own shores, to the
mountains of Switzerland, where he
learned both skiing and bug-hunting in
his boyhood; to Lapland, where (being
also an artist, with an observant eye
for color) he gives a most vivid descrip-
tion of a caravan of Lapps on the
march with their heavy fur smocks
embroidered with red - and - yellow
seams, their women in dark-blue gowns
and red poke-bonnets, all gliding
silently over the snow on their long
birchwood skis while their herd of
reindeer, 3000 strong, trudges before
them “looking like a dead forest on
the march”; or to the Atlas mountains,
high and snowy in hot Morocco, where
he fraternises with the Berbers, fishes
for trout with lumps of old salami-
sausage (unsuccessfully, thank Heaven)
and, no doubt as a punishment for this
crime, gets notably lost again; or to
Norway, where he skis in the mid-
night sun; or to Canada, where he
hobnobs with bears and catches male
butterflies of the rare and handsome
fritillary. Boloria Astarte, by signalling
to them with a bit of orange glass from
a broken beer-bottle which they mis-
took for the flashing yellow wings of
the females.
Mr. Wyatt skims from country to
country, from mountain to mountain,
with some of the apparent inconse-
quence of his own butterflies: one day
watching the goats in the trees in
Morocco, the next day studying ants in
the trees at Townsville; one day catch-
ing processionary caterpillars in the
Basses Alpes of France, the next day
telling how Dr. Waterhouse caught the
caterpillars that, shedding their hairs
from the sheoaks above the tents, were
causing a mysterious skin-infection in
the men at a military camp in the
Hunter valley; one day relating how
the huge Caligo butterflies of South
America frighten their enemies by turn-
ing themselves into “owls” (they have
two big eye-spots on the hind-wings),
the next day describing the “powerful
and majestic Panjandrum with Two
Tails” of the Costa Brava in Spain, a
creature which, in spite of its resound-
ing name, is, alas, “an inveterate
tippler, and can most easily be
caught at the bung-holes of wine-
vats or beer-barrels.” But, like
the butterflies, Mr. Wyatt is really going
straight to the point all the time: what
matters, what lives, what has the honey
in it, what is really worth preserving
from his experiences; and he has
packed into this delightful book, light
and easy to read as it is, material that
would have served lesser men for a
dozen books of travel.
HERE, UNDER PEAR-TREES
Here, under pear-trees, on the broad
verandas,
Children like sleeping gods play games;
Surprised, awake in picture-frames,
Leaving a stuffed grouse, debts and ten-
thousand acres,
An ancestral trick of speech or way of
standing.
Their ponies with skinned-back lips
devour
The blackboys, stolen in an hour
Time slept through, drugged by birds in
the summer garden.
Horses and stolen roses, fine-woolled
rams;
Frail, youthful grandmothers who say
That things were different in their day,
Hearing the jets smash windows over
the township.
Between the grey lake and the lyrebird
peak,
A fleece of haze. Now tractors move.
By careless roads of hate and love
They go to serious parties, gay com-
mittees.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Inside Russia
Marshall Mac Duffie, an American
lawyer who distributed millions of
U.N.R.R.A. dollars in Russia in 1946,
developed a considerable respect for
Nikita Khrushchev, then Governor of
the Ukraine; and when, in the reshuffle
after Stalin’s death, he saw that
Khrushchev had replaced Malenkov as
Secretary to the Communist party, he
sent a cable asking whether Mr.
(“Red Page” continued on page 35)


: :.:•••• ....
mm
■L-:**.:.* :j
HQ
tft*p§£
iM|
.
m
IflilMß
mi
■
it
Model .22 Sako
First release of this repeating Rifle
Sako’s new small bore repeating rifle has an easily inserted and detached i
6-cartridge magazine, and fires either .22 long rifle or .22 short cartridges.
Locking time is fast with firing pin travel of only 6 m.m. (.234in.), and the
adjustable trigger has a two stage pull. Each weapon is test fired and after rifling
every barrel is lapped to a high polish. The Sako P-54 is equipped with a blade
front sight on a matted ramp, and an open rear tangent sight on the ban el for
any range between 25 and 100 metres. The walnut stock is fitted with pistol
grip and sling swivels, and neatly checquered. Specifications: total length
39.768 in. Barrel length 23.031 in. Distance between front and rear sights
18.504 in.; between trigger and butt 13.583 in., weight 5.51 b., 6 grooves.
Priced at £27/10/0.
nthony Horderns’
-TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
*7
Parker Hale, 3-piece 12G. cleaning
rod. This rod is priced at 27/6.
'
wA %■%sssss&
•J
m
.22 rifle cover, canvas, and leather
with sling. Priced at 35/- each.
1*
wms
11
-
; v
-s/
-y
m
'mil
/
'*■<*. g sjgsis js®3§
fpiisi
#l|||lili!
*
Combination knife, leather handle.
Blades, sin., 2fin. Price, 37/6 each.
I§ll
m
Strong belt for .22 cartridges is
sensationally priced at only 12/6 ea.
IS
mm
mm
3 in 1 oil. Priced at 2/6 per tin.
.22 Cal. pull through, at 3/6 each.
85si
Combination stag-handle knives.
sin., 2fin. blades. Sheath. 39/6 set.
Waterproof shooter’s jacket
Jacket especially designed for
shooting comfort has four large
pockets, and is completely water-
proof. With full fleecy lining for
extra warmth. Available in chest
sizes 40 inches, 42 inches, and
44 inches, priced at £6/10/0.
WHY NOT LAY-BY
You can easily lay-by any of these
goods; just a small deposit (4/-
in £) will secure them and you
pay the balance off as you wish
in easy instalments.
Gun Department, Lower Ground Floor.
BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. 80951
m
1
wm
i
:


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 7, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3943
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 S)
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
A CLEAN-UP WANTED
WHAT is happening in Canberra now is a lesson in
the essentials of popular government. The system
functions in two dovetailing halves—the construc-
tive, as represented by the party in power, and the
critical Opposition, which tests the expedients of
the ruling party in the light of day. One is as
essential as the other. But one in Canberra now is
lacking. The Federal Opposition is like the rudder
of a ship which has been hit by a whale. There
is nothing left of it but splintered shreds and
dangling obstructions.
The exhibition which the Opposition gave last
week showed that it is ineffective for its purpose;
that it has lost its principles and its cohesion. And
this is not healthy; a Government without the brake
of an effective Opposition is something which does
not work at its best.
If Dr. Evatt had a shred of reputation for
responsibility or for leadership, he lost it last week
in the debates on the Budget and the motion by
Allan Fraser, M.P., for the release of the “Banks-
town Martyrs,” Fitzpatrick and Browne.
In the Budget debate Dr. Evatt obviously had
not the slightest understanding of his own financial
arguments, if arguments they could have been
called. They excited only laughter among Gov-
ernment members and a wriggling and silent dis-
comfort among his own; and it would have been
little to the credit of members if it had been
otherwise.
The spectacle of the leader of a party —once
great —solemnly devoting himself to the thesis that
the population of Australia is actually going short
on nourishment was absurd. This pity was wasted
on people able in the past year to spend something
over £3OO million on tobacco, beer and cigarettes
and hypothecate about £lBO million on time-
payment, mostly for luxury goods, buying motor-
cars on a scale hitherto unknown. Yet the
impression which Dr. Evatt seemed bent on giving
was that Australia, under the influence of the stay-
put Menzies Government, was slipping into a con-
dition of malnutrition, if not of absolute starvation.
And this, it appeared, was the result of the
machination of “monopoly,” greedy for profit—
the same monopoly that Dr. Evatt in his recent
election-campaigns was not prepared to fight
against, since his weapon of socialisation had,
according to him, been taken from his hand by
the High Court, which had declared nationalisation
beyond the powers of the Constitution. Dr. Evatt
at the last hearing had been ready to feed this
same monopoly by substantial tax-concessions, but
he —or whoever wrote his speech—is now a con-
vinced Socialist once more, unswerving (momen-
tarily) in his conviction that the Fat Man is the
source of all the country’s ills and of the grinding
of the faces of the poor.
On these matters Dr. Evatt is positive, but
shows only a simulated heat. In fact, the only
warmth observable in his peculiar advocacy
developed when he attacked the defence policy of
the Government and its determination to join in the
strategic defence of South-East Asia, which he
apparently deplores as much as Peking and
Moscow. His policy is of the same kind as the
Communist bloc’s. He is prepared to rest
Australian security on hope:—
I am not referring only to the defence policy;
I am referring to the expense of it. I say that at
this moment in international affairs, after the
success of the four main leaders of the world con-
ference at Geneva, it is wrong to continue with
this old policy of “put in the £l9O million, nobody
will query it We will try to get the defence
forces to expend some of it; never mind about an
increase in child-endowment, we can forget that;
never mind the needs of wage- and salary-earners
of this country; put it into defence,” That is con-
trary to the opinion of this country, and it is
contrary to good international relations.
This was in line with his protest against the
Government’s “indulgence in international smears
at the expense of regimes simply because we do
not accept them”—the regimes, of course, of the
Russians and Communist Chinese, whose masters
are no doubt heartily in accord with Dr. Evatt’s
protest against the Government’s “miserly hoard-
ing... .crimping of our household budget,” while
spending money on a national-defence system
against a threat which is pressing down on the
very shoulders Asia and coming
nearer to the Commonwealth every week.
If the utter bankruptcy of the “Labor” party
had not been made evident by its leader’s curious
exhibition of its views and capacities on the Budget,
its nature would certainly have been self-evident
in the Fraser incident.
There was nothing abnormal in Mr. Fraser’s
own action. He is a man who is constantly suffer-
ing at the hands of his former colleagues of the
press who urge on him that because he is a member
of their craft and has a mind well stored with
ancient platitudes he also is a God-given statesman,
sent to save the liberties of a downtrodden land of
tyranny and wrong. Mr. Fraser’s inner conviction
about his mission and his innate confidence in his
own capacities and powers of oratory are inherent
in all his proceedings. When he speaks the wraiths
of Demosthenes, Danton, Hemy Clay, John
Brown’s body and Little Lord Fauntleroy sit on
the edge of the Clerks’ Table waving the Copyright
Act and jeering at familiar passages in his orations.
His performance in the matter of Fitzpatrick
and Browne —no relation to John Brown of the
“body”—was normal save in its loneliness. Its
interest was not in the fact that, having agreed to
all the procedures and decisions of the House save
the imprisonment of the two men (in place of fining
them, as he advocated), Mr. Fraser now repudiated
everything for which he had formerly stood and
voted. Since his attitude had the approval of an
enthusiastic daily press it was normal to him. It
was equally normal in the situation that Mr.
Menzies, in his analysis of the speech, should
have made its author sound like a somewhat
illogical third-form schoolboy. What was abnormal
was that the avatar of freedom, who not long since
had been held up as a possible leader and savior
of his party, should have been utterly deserted by
it save for a voteless brother, together with a
couple of anti-Communist “Labor” men.
The spectacle of the “Labor” party, headed by
its Deputy-Leader, with all its principles of mate-
ship flung into the dust, clustered, as the division-
bells rang, round the Chamber doors like snigger-
ing boys, while an overwhelming vote humiliated
a loyal follower, was enough to make John Curtin
turn in his grave. And the unedifying nature of the
incident was accentuated by the conclusion that
Dr. Evatt had egged-on his quondam rival and then
abandoned him.
An election is obviously necessary to allow the
country to speak its opinion not so much of the
Government, which at present has general con-
fidence and a record of stability and capable
finance behind it, but of the Opposition. The
electors of Barton and Melbourne should be given
a chance as early as possible to say whether they
are prepared to allow such men to continue to
represent them. It is in the interests of the country
and of “Labor” that there should be a strong and
Constitutional-minded Opposition. Even if they
were misguided and Leftist in theory, the Scullin,
Curtin and Chifley “Labor” parties were basically
Australian and basically Constitutional in outlook,
whatever minority politicians like Dr. Evatt and
Eddie Ward, Dedman, Holloway and Morrow
might represent. But the existing Opposition
serves no purpose, except that of the enemies of
Australian progress. It is not an Opposition—it
cannot unite, on any essential issue, to oppose.
Perplexity and Sincerity
THE Federal Treasurer’s Budget-speech appeal for
more restraint in spending received a chilly recep-
tion in some quarters. Apart from the always-
expected criticism by political opponents and com-
plaints of spokesmen of organisations with axes
to grind and “experts” who won’t have Fadden
at any price, his comments seem to have aroused
some honest perplexity. This is not surprising, as
throughout his Budget speech the Treasurer was
alternately painting a picture of a Commonwealth
enjoying more prosperity than ever before and
cautioning everyone against excessive spending. He
emphasised that the prosperity he was talking of
was a “substantial prosperity and not the illusory
kind that goes with mere abundance of money.”
Yet at the same time “the current need is for
restraint on the part of the banking system, on the
part of business, on the part of everyone who has
money to spend.”
Budget critics accustomed to considering
finance exclusively from the viewpoint of the
family-budget naturally find it difficult. To the
average citizen prosperity means having money to
spend. An “Other Fellow’s Mind” contributor,
writing just before the Budget on similar exhorta-
tions to save, put the case for the spender;—
The money’s going round and prosperity is
thus maintained If everyone did become so
thrifty, where would we get? No one would buy
anything not really necessary—most industrial
wheels would slow down to a halt and mass-
unemployment would follow.
A correspondent of a Sydney daily had similar
doubts. Expressing himself puzzled and “all at
sea,” he asked; —
How can the country go on developing and
industry keep on expanding, keeping us all in
jobs, if we don’t spend what we earn? If we hang
on to it, won’t the demand for goods drop,
industry slow down and leave us jobless?
Both these writers are right, in a way—the
individual way. But they make no mention of how
the money is to be spent. It is probably obvious
to most people that a week’s pay spent entirely
on beer or betting contributes nothing to prosperity.
Money wagered at the races may go round several
times in one afternoon, but it keeps no industrial
wheels turning, unless those of the totalisator can
be so regarded. But when criticism is switched to
spending in less-wasteful channels—on what are
known as consumer-goods—the soundness of it is
not so obvious.
The truth is that the philosophy of the spenders
is right only in a relative way. It’s a matter of
times and conditions. A little more spending in
the early 1930’s would have helped to keep men
in employment and the wheels of industry turning.
The trouble then was that no one had any money
to spend; they’d spent it all—and more—during
the boom-times of the 1920’5. For 1920’s substitute
1950’s and read Fadden’s warning again!
It is true that if everyone stops spending
industry will slow down —more than that; it will
close down. It is also true that if everyone stops
eating we will all die. But no one is advocating
either the first or the second of these courses.
Doctors do, however, frequently advise a patient
to cut-down on his eating, drinking or smoking—
with beneficial effects on the patient’s health. That,
roughly, is what the Treasurer is advocating when
he urges restraint in spending.
The Australian economy at the present time
is in the position of the patient suffering from
digestive troubles. A little judicious dieting might
do it a world of good and spare it far more
drastic treatment later on. When there is any
degree of unemployment the curtailment of spend-
ing will probably aggravate the situation and cause
further unemployment; but when, as at present,
there is full, even overfull, employment, additional
spending on consumer-goods cannot provide any
additional employment; it can merely, by accentu-
ating competition for available labor, force up
prices and feed inflation.
In the year ended June 30, 1955, personal
incomes of all Australians totalled £3833 million,
an increase of £157 million on the previous year.
But in the same period consumption-expenditure
increased by not £157 million but £268 million,
with a corresponding drop in savings, which had
already declined by £l2O million in the preceding
year. And it is from savings that any expansion of
industry must come, not, as the correspondents
quoted earlier apparently think, from spendings on
consumer-goods.
In the five years since 1950-51 consumption-
expenditure rose by £lOBO million and yearly
savings fell by £175 million. The money for this
increased expenditure came chiefly from the wages-
and-salaries section of the national income, which
increased over the period by £833 million; farm-
incomes declined by £243 million.
These figures are prepared by the Common-
wealth Statistician; they are available for public
information but are seldom seen or read by the
average citizen —which accounts for much of the
perplexity and puzzlement admitted above. No
such excuse can be offered on behalf of another
critic, Dr. Evatt. He should not be puzzled, nor
does he admit any puzzlement. Perplexity is left
to those who try to follow his reasoning. Using
presumably the same figures on which the Treasurer
based his warning—unless Evatt has established
his own private statistical bureau—he has arrived
at the conclusion that consumer-spending, far from
being too high, is not high enough and that this is
because wages have not increased enough. Con-
currently, company-incomes have increased too
much and companies have put too much of the
increase into investment, thereby causing inflation.
His remedy is higher wages and a higher rate of
consumer-spending. This, he says, is a logical
course to check inflation.
The logic might be apparent to Jock Garden,
allegedly the Doc.’s mentor on economics, but even
he would probably have to use his other hobby,
astrology, to get a proper appreciation of it.
Authorities unguided by the stars would expect
such a course to aggravate rather than check infla-
tion. Realising this, Evatt says that if the wage-
increase led to higher prices, then profits should
be pegged, not; wages, and “tax-reduction on lower
incomes and increased tax to prevent profiteering
at top levels would both seem logical remedies.”
It would be carrying charity too far to believe
that Evatt really believes in the queer medicine he
is prescribing. One example only should be
sufficient to show the insincerity of “Labor’s” new
economic expert. Evatt is criticising companies for
applying their profits to expansion of plant. In his
election-speech 16 months ago he promised, if
returned to power, to restore allowances for initial
depreciation of plant in order to encourage expan-
sion of industry. Was he sincere then or is he
sincere now? Is he ever sincere?


pjp^ G s,s]
THE CANBERRA SAGE
“You are old, Dr, Evatt,” the young man said,
“And reckoned by some erudite;
And yet you incessantly stand on your head—
Do you think, at your age, it is right?”
“In my youth,” Dr . Evatt replied to the lad,
“I sat at the feet of Jock Garden;
So if my economics sound perfectly mad,
I'm asking for nobody's pardon.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Defence and Dr. Evatt
The Second Battalion of the Australian
Royals, which will have sailed for
Penang by the time this is published, goes
with the uneasy knowledge that it repre-
sents a divided country. The unease will
not come from the mere disagreement
but from the fact that it leaves behind a
political and unionist section whose
hearts axe not with them.
The disturbing factor in this situation
is not that this element exists —there are
always a proportion of cranks in any
community—but that it is led not by
Burtons and Sharkeys but by Dr. Evatt
and other chieftains of the Australian
Labor Party whose proximity to the
Communists in policy becomes almost
every day more apparent. A reading of
the speech of Dr. Evatt on the Budget on
August 30 and his statement to the press
of September 4 makes “Labor’s” shame-
ful policy clear enough. It needs dissec-
tion to reveal its nature. Dr. Evatt said
on August 30:
It [the Government] is determined to
show what it is going to do in defence.
What it has done, above all things, has
been to bring Australia into contempt by-
sending a special force to Malaya.
Into contempt with whom? With the
United States, the British Common-
wealth? Certainly not. The Australian
force is part of the strategic defence pro-
vision of the Western Pacific Powers, all
of whom are contributing. The United
States is doing its part on a grand scale
from the Pole to the Equator. The United
Kingdom is so much moved by the
necessity to build a barrier against the
. southward Communist flow that it is
sending its young men, whom it desper-
ately needs in industry, to help defend
Malaya and adjacent countries.
The only people who are likely to feel
contempt for the Australian move are
those in Peking, who must laugh a little
when they regard the small effort which
the British Commonwealth is able to
make and their own plans, as set out by
Mao in March, 1953, in an unrepudiated
document read into the Congressional
Record by Senator Knowland on April
29 last year:
BURMA, THAILAND, INDONESIA AND
MALAY PENINSULA.
After the liberation of Indo-China,
Burma will fall in line as good founda-
tion has already been laid there. The
then reactionary ruling clique in Thailand
will capitulate and the country will be
in the hands of the people. The libera-
tion of Indonesia, which will fall to the
Communist camp as a ripe fruit, will
complete the circle around the Malay
Peninsula. The British will realise, under
these 'circumstances, the hopelessness of
putting up a fight and will withdraw as
quickly as they can. We expect that the
whole process will be completed by 1960.
Plans for the overthrow of the
Japanese and for the isolating of the
United States, for the gradual mobilisa-
tion of an irresistible force of 25,000,000
men in East Asia follow.
Hear Dr. Evatt further on the Malayan
force: —
What is the position now when the new
Malayan Federation is proposing an
amnesty which would end the guerrilla
warfare? Everyone who has any regard
for good international relations can
only hope that this is agreed between
them. But will the force still go to
Malaya ?
The reference to “good international
relations” seems to have been a slip. Dr.
Evatt has always held that the guerrillas
of Malaya were patriotic nationalists
representing the aspirations of a people
down-trodden by “colonialism”—blessed
Communist word! But now he seems to
regard discussion between the new
Malayan Parliamentary leadership and
.the bandits as a matter of international
relations. For once he is rights The
real base of the operations of the
guerrillas is Peking.
On September 4 Dr. Evatt deliberately
advocated “substantial reduction” of the
defence vote and declared that the inter-
national situation permitted it. He re-
peats the lie that the Government’s action
in appointing the Petrov commission and
giving sanctuary to Petrov cost the
country £27 million in wool trade last
year. It didn’t. Russia bought through
other countries, and the quantity of wool
sold by Australia in 1954-55 was an all-
time record. He used the Communist
quip that the Government “feared that
peace would break out” and the insult
that a Government, consisting largely of
returned-soldiers who know the horrors
of war from first-hand, had been living
on a “political meal-ticket of inter-
national fear and national hysteria.”
His statement was a wanton dis-
couragement to recruiting at a time when
the forces are suffering from manpower
shortage—an encouragement to Com-
munists to sabotage defence industry.
U.K. Recession
One of the most upsetting phenomena
in the economic world as it affects Aus-
tralia is the rise of trade-union demands
in the United Kingdom for wage-increases
at a time when world competition with
British exports abroad is sharpening.
All basic industries in Britain are faced
with demands for wage-increases on a
scale which doesn’t look imposing by
Australian standards but which is, in
fact, in some cases calculated to be lethal
in heavy industries competing with the
world even now on a shoestring of
margin and confronted in the future with
trade-war.
Following the unofficial dock-strikes,
there have been all-round demands in the
engineering trades for an overall average
increase in wages of 10s. a week. And
the restive railway unions have followed
suit—their contribution to new burdens
would be considerably more than that
imposed by engineers. “Back-shift con-
tract-workers” in c0a1—35,000 in York-
shire alone—were threatening strike a
week ago unless there were substantial
rises (somebody suggested to £l5 a week
for this class of work), thpugh generally
it is agreed to be a matter calling for
pit-to-pit adjustment. In Manchester
textile-workers’ leaders last week were
discussing whether nine unions should
permit three-shift operation in certain
mills. About 600,000 farm-workers are
now putting forward a claim for the
advance of the minimum wage from
£6 75., the figure established by a rise
of 7s. last January, to £7. About 100,000
in the furniture trades are asking for
another 4d. an hour for adult male
workers and a proportionate rise for
women. And more than 75,000 bakery-
employees will have their hours cut from
46 to 45 a week, with more wages, more
overtime. Film-workers have had a sub-
stantial rise all round. And almost every
day there are more demands from
unions, or from bodies acting unoffici-
ally, for concessions and rises and less
work.
However, the incapacity of the
export industries to bear more
wage-rises, direct and indirect, to-
gether with hours-reductions, is best indi-
cated by the increasing number of daily
reports of big contracts lost to foreigners
—of compressor-contracts, held for
years with the S, African mines, going
to the Belgians; of Germans outbidding
the U.K. for railway rolling-stock in
Nigeria; of the outbidding of the U.K.
last week by the United States, France
and West Germany in competition for
the colossal Persian Government con-
tracts for the expenditure of Persian oil-
revenue on schools, hospitals, electrical
power, irrigation, sanitation and road-
building. The U.K. drew none of the
prizes. In India the same week the U.K.
lost huge contracts for locomotives to
West Germany, Japan, Czechoslovakia,
Austria and Hungary.
All this may shortly affect the power
of the United Kingdom—whose dollar-
balance along with its export-balance is
shrinking seriously— to buy Australian
products, including wool, at current
prices.
"Are You Alive?"
“In the ACT”: Parliamentary-pensioners
may well resemble ancient warriors in
incredible longevity, but apparently the
Treasury in Canberra isn’t prepared to
take any chances. It has reminded the
recipients of what are politely known as
“Parliamentary retiring-allowances” that
a person to whom, or in respect of whom,
pension-payments are being made shall
submit evidence satisfactory to the trust
that he is alive.
Each communication enclosed a form,
to be signed in the presence of “an
authorised person.” It seems regrettable
that the late W. M. Hughes didn’t
survive to receive and answer such a
letter, but at least one of the surviving
“old boys” of the House of Reps, has
risen to the bait.
“Bernie” Corser, for many years repre-
sentative of Wide Bay (Q.), who almost
created a record by retiring voluntarily
in 1954, has replied that the “very crude”
demand resembles a bit of bone-pointing
procedure by a hungry abo. He is
surprised that the trust, which includes
three Queenslanders, asks such a question
after his separation from them of only a
few sitting-weeks, and he surmises that
the objective is to bridge the Budget gap.
He also wonders if payments to the
accounts of world-visiting Ministers
cause any departmental concern, and if
they (the Ministers) receive pink forms
calling on them to prove that they are
alive. He asks if Percy Spender’s bank-
account is continually replenished,
“without your fear, during his visit
through the republics of South America,
that he is not alive —where his only
safety is in the fact that he will not be
understood.” Finally, after a sprightly
suggestion that the crest of the trust
should be a skull and crossbones, Mr.
Gorser ends by saying, “I hope you are
as well as I am. Had you written me
on your own initiative, I would know
you were not healthy.”
The Treasury query directed to those in
the shadows of retirement might well be
sent also to a large quota of those still in
Parliament. If they were asked “Are
you alive?” and required to produce
proof of some real and useful activity
to support an affirmative reply, they
might find themselves in greater difficulty
than the very much alive and still-
kicking Mr. Corser.
Slugging the Sick
To excite pity, some Indian beggars
deliberately hurt themselves. They strap
a limb in some distorted position until
its flesh withers, muscles atrophy.
Having done this, with an air of unassail-
able virtue they fish out their begging-
bowls.
Both in its self-wounding and in the
white robe of virtue it assumes, the
N.S.W. “Labor” Government emulates
the Indian beggar and his commercialised
woes.
The newest begging move is, as usual,
directed against the taxpayers, and, also
as usual, disguised in being directed via
a reproach to the Federal Government.
And this reproach is expertly timed from
the standpoint of political cunning.
A few seconds before the Budget was
announced N.S.W. hospital-fees were
taken with dropsy. They were not merely
increased; they were increased by half
as much again.
By now, however, the N.S.W. Govern-
ment has had a decade or so of practice
in shifting all blame for bitter political
medicine to doctors within the Federal
territory: a kind of geographic sleight-
of-hand, and very useful it is, too.
Only a few days after the Budget, the
usual Canberra-corollary followed the
N.S.W. hospital-increase. Mr. Watkins
(Lab., N.S.W.) showed commendable
solicitude for the sick in N.S.W. “Did
the Federal Government intend to
increase its subsidy to N.S.W. hospitals?”
Sir Earle Page replied that the N.S.W.
Government had not warned the
Commonwealth of its decision to increase
hospital fees. It had —though he did not
say so —chosen to keep the impending
hospital inflation to itself, until just
before the Budget.
“Everyone knows,” Health Minister
Page went on, “that before a member
of a hospital-contribution scheme can
transfer to a higher rate there must be
a lapse of time.”
Did the N.S.W. State Government pre-
fer not to know? One is reminded of
the Indian beggar.
The N.S.W. State Hospitals Commis-
sion then sprang a 6|- p.c. cut in hospital
subsidies “pending 1955-56 State Gov-
ernment Estimates.” Money has to go
further because hospitals have 1000 more
beds this year than last.
However, showing more consideration
for the sick than the State Government
shows, many hospitals refuse to put up
charges.
If anybody ultimately extracts more
money from the sick, one hopes some
finds its way to nurses’ pay-envelopes.
The numerous gentlemen who more
officially glory in the title “public ser-
vant” place a higher price on their
labors ; but to nurses it may seem their
own labors are almost as onerous.
"Labor's" Other Expert
Federal “Labor’s” deputy-leader Arthur
Calwell has been rather quiet recently on
matters of financial policy. It has almost
seemed as though he had given up think-
ing of himself as the ghost-Treasurer of
“Labor’s” Shadow Cabinet and had
accepted Evatt at the latter’s own valua-
tion as the party’s financial expert. How-
ever, last week, after his leader had
walked off with the wooden spoon for
producing in his speech on the Budget
the plan most likely to get the finances
of the country into a hopeless mess,
Arthur apparently decided it was time
he asserted himself in an effort to win
back the title.
had complained that the big
industrial concerns were putting too high
a proportion of their profits into invest-
ment. Calwell inferred that they were
not putting enough:
To enable the Australian worker to have
at his disposal as much horse-power as is
available to the American, the capital
investment in new plant and equipment in
Australia last financial year should have
amounted to approximately £614 million,
whereas the actual investment was only
£285 million.
But the half-shadow Treasurer made no
attempt to show where the extra invest-
ment-capital was to come from; instead,
he followed the line of his leader and
attacked Fadden’s plea for a reduction
of spending on consumer-goods. Only in
one section did he suggest a possible
source of capital—the prohibition of
motor-car imports, so that the British
and American manufacturers would be
forced to produce their vehicles entirely
in this country. x
It is true that Australia would be the
gainer if more companies followed the
General-Motors-Holden’s example, but
Calwell’s criticism is unfair to several
big concerns which already have large
plants in Australia and which do the
major part of the work on vehicles for
the Australian market in Australia.
According to the Federal Chamber of
Automotive Industries the Australian
content in vehicles produced by four
overseas manufacturers ranges from 70
to 95 per cent, and “in the case of
most of the remainder ... 50 per cent.”
Most of these companies are pro-
gressively increasing the proportion of
the Australian content of their vehicles,
and only a week before Calwell spoke
another American concern announced its
intention of opening a plant in Australia
Calwell and his kind of little Austra-
lians seem to base their ethics on those of
Persia, Mexico and the less-reputable
South American, republics, which
encourage the entry of foreign capital
and then expropriate the industry when
it becomes profitable. General-Motors-
Holden’s was welcome to risk its capital
on producing an Australian car. Now it
is abused for taking its profits out of the
country —and alternatively for using
them in extension of plant.
Education and Discipline
“R.A.”: The dust blown from old educa-
tional theories has apparently blinded
anyone with new ones, with the result
that the N.S.W. Teachers’ Conference
hasn’t got anywhere in particular. Not
that much was expected ; there are too
many available side-issues. Teachers
are probably the worst people to discuss
teaching, anyway: tape-recorders con-
cealed in class-rooms might help.
The doubtful issue with our school-
system is whether changing from the bad
old days of “Cane, cane and a bit
more cane” to the “Turn-the-other-
cheek” attitude of the new-educationists
would be progress.
We must have a discipline policy.
Teachers become embittered and
cynical over mumblings from the beards
of departmental heads. My own experi-
ence was that teachers can generally be
divided into three classes: tyrants, cynics
and “softies.”
Our N.S.W. education-system has been
in a bad way for a long time: it is neither
one thing nor the other. Parents say to
their children: “You get it a lot easier
than we ever did.” The children wonder
—whether they are getting it easier,
whether they should be, and, if they are,
whether it’s doing them any good.
A clear solution lies with the younger
generation of schoolteachers. There have
been other young generations of
teachers, of course ; but now it is being
realised that something has been wrong,
and the chance is undoubtedly there for
the young teacher of this era.
Moscow's Plans
The relationships between the Com-
munist countries and the West are reach-
ing testing-point at a stage when there
is enough unrest in the world to sink a
continent —fighting in Morocco, rebel-
lion in Southern Sudan, Communist
activity in Vietnam and Korea, martial
law in Buenos Aires, and Israel and
Egypt involved in one of their occasional
border shindies in the air and otherwise.
In the last week of August and on
the days which formed the threshold of
the 16th anniversary of World War 11,
the acid seemed to be biting nearer the
core of international relationships, as
evidenced by two sets of events.
In the United States Messrs. Dulles
and Shigemitsu, meeting on behalf of
the United States and Japan, were
thrashing-out details of Japan’s role in
the defence of the Pacific as a preliminary
to moves to admit Japan to the United
Nations, a consummation to be achieved
as quickly as possible. The Americans
appear to be working towards the point
{Continued on next page)


at which Japanese troops might take
part in the general defence of the South-
East Asian zone, with Japanese defence
forces reaching 360,000 by 1960. Such
an aspiration involving the sending of
Japanese troops abroad would scarcely
be welcomed either by the Japanese them-
selves or by some other countries, includ-
ing Australia, which is not yet quite ready
to accept such a view. The director of
the Japanese Self-defence Board has
announced that “overseas service by
Japanese troops is against the Constitu-
tion,” and that this is the concerted view
of the whole Japanese Cabinet, which
knew nothing about the Dulles-Shige-
mitsu communique.
While these discussions were in pro-
gress a sudden announcement was made
that Communist forces were being cut
all round. Russia had already announced
a cut of 640,000 men by the end of the
year “because of a certain amount of
reduction in international tension,” and
now Czechoslovakia weighed-in with the
news of a cut of 34,000' and Poland
47,000. These reductions mean exactly
nothing against the background of
Russian- bloc might. They are merely
gestures in line with the limited ihter-
change of visits between East and West,
which affect nobody outside official dele-
gations and nothing as yet but the splash-
ing around of extra vodka. They were
preliminary to the discussion at the con-
ference on disarmament corollary to the
Geneva Conference, for which six points
have been listed by the Russian delegate
Arkady Sobelov as the major issues of
debate.
In terms of reality the future doesn’t
seem to be very bright for the disarma-
ment conference in which the U.S.S.R. is
aiming to have it both ways—to win a
dominating military position by a per-
centage reduction of armaments favorable
to itself; or to win a favorable world
political position by being able to blame
the Western “aggressors” for failing to
accept a proffered hand holding an agree-
ment couched in double-talk and designed
for the world victory of the Communist
revolution.
POLITICAL POINTS
Tim-ber-rr!
• •
Who’s going to untie the Winsor knot?
• •
Clive Evatt has threatened to resign
from the A.L.P. if it expels Fraser. It
is understood the party is holding out for
a better offer.
• •
There’s talk in Fadden’s electorate,
Macpherson, of putting up an opponent
against S’Artie for the Country-party
nomination —the Treasurer and Com-
merce Minister McEwen have trodden on
the dairymen’s toes. At a meeting at
Warwick one speaker said Fadden was
“dangerous to dairymen” and that some-
thing should be done to “get” him; an-
other suggested that they should con-
sider forming their own party or amal-
gamating with “Labor.” Times have
changed. Billy Hughes went to Warwick
and was greeted with an egg; Fadden
gets sour milk.
Whatever grouch the dairymen may
have against the Government, they can
have none against Nature or their cows ;
production of milk for the year ended
June 30 was a record —1322 million
gallons, an improvement of 11 per cent,
on the previous year. Butter-production
was 188,192 tons —20 per cent, better
than in 1953-54.
• •
Definition of unity is still causing
headaches in A.L.P. circles. At the unity
conference last month Red unions were
solidly behind Evatt, and now rank-and-
file tickets including “Labor” and Com-
munist candidates are being organised for
union-elections, despite the alleged A.L.P.
ban on such compacts. The N. S. Wales
executive is threatening disciplinary
action against party members who allow
their names to be linked with Reds in
this way, but it’s going on all the same.
• •
Some of the smaller hire-purchase
shows are offering fantastic interest-rates
for money on deposit. One is advertis-
ing for amounts of £250 and upward,
minimum term three months, interest 12
per cent., payable monthly. Another
offers 13 per cent., payable monthly or
quarterly.
• •
Bolte survived his first challenge in the
Vic. Assembly with the failure of Cain’s
no-confidence motion in the wee sma’
hours of Thursday morning. Debate on
the motion, which had a twofold basis
—increased freights and fares and failure
to reintroduce price-control—lasted 16
hours before it was rejected by 42 votes
to 19, the Country party voting with the
Government. The Premier has agreed
to talk the rail situation over with the
Country party and he says he will listen
to constructive criticism. Whether this
will be forthcoming from the C.P. remains
to be seen.
• •
A mapping-expert from the Depart-
ment of the Interior has revealed that
some country towns are in the wrong
position on the map. That’s nothing!
The February floods revealed that plenty
of ’em are in the wrong position on the
ground.
• •
After displaying towards the curiously-
sudden relaxation in world tensions a
degree of caution that was criticised in
some ill-informed quarters, R. G. Casey
is setting out for Anzus, a Colombo Plan
meeting and the U.N. General Assembly
with the announced intention of finding
out if the Geneva-conference atmosphere
of mutual trust and mutual respect is to
develop. If it does, he hopes for some
constructive discussions on important
issues, and he finds “room for some
optimism.”
• ©
Vic. Housing Commission homes are
to be offered for sale to tenants at a price
equal to one-half the cost plus one-half
the present value. Deposits will be very
small and payments will extend over 30
years, with free assurance coyer on the
life of the tenant,
American experts claim that improved
aerial-photography, aided by “new
scientific developments,” make quite
feasible Eisenhower’s plan for mutual
aerial-inspection of Russia and the U.S.
New instruments, aerial geiger-counters
and radarscope-photography, are the keys
to the plan, but the Soviet’s reactions
suggest that such surveys may have to
await the production of a satellite or
something of the sort.
• •
Lord Mayor Hills suggests a skating-
rink in Sydney’s Prince Alfred Park. To
enable aldermen to practise skating on
thin ice?
• •
Appointment of Judge Maxwell as
chairman of one of the new television
companies promises well for the enter-
tainment-value of TV programmes. His
chairing of the Liquor Commission kept
public interest at a high level throughout
its protracted proceedings. If only he
can sign-up George and Peter his net-
work should be assured of a good audi-
ence from the start.
• •
Lithgow’s Saturday-shopping war is
still raging. Since Judge De Baun’s
TOO MUCH FOR HIM!
refusal three months ago to prohibit
Saturday-trading most shops have opened
for business on Saturdays; most shop-
assistants have stayed home. For the
first few days of last week the shoppies
were on strike; on Thursday those
employed by shops which do not open
on Saturdays returned to work. The rest
stayed on strike. Asked by the
N. S. Wales Industrial Commission to
explain the union’s action, Ernie O’Dea
said that he had visited Lithgow and had
directed his members to obey the law,
but that the Lithgow Trades and Labor
Council had taken the dispute out of the
union’s hands. Referring to the Lith-
gow T. and L.C. as an unregistered body,
the commission said the union, as a
registered body, had a duty to control its
members. If it did not do so it placed
its registration in jeopardy.
• •
Dame Florence Cardell-Oliver, M.L.A.
for Subiaco in the Westralian Parliament
since 1936, is retiring at the end of the
current session. She was the first Aus-
tralian woman to reach Cabinet rank —
McLarty made her Minister for Health,
Supply and Shipping in 1947.
• •
Are there hints of the shape of things
to come in the fact that tactical instruc-
tion for the graduating class of staff
cadets at Duntroon now includes jungle,
mountain, desert and Arctic warfare?,
Australia’s representatives at the annual
meeting of.the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank will be the
Treasurer and Roland Wilson. lue
meeting will begin next Monday m
Istanbul, Turkey.
- • •
Southern Rhodesia’s Prime Minister
suggests that the new Central African
Federation should be granted assistance
similar to that given to Asian nations
under the Colombo Plan* Fair enough ;
but it should be a condition of any grant
that none of the money is to be spent on
Cadillacs for diplomats.
• •
A. D. Fraser has been reported to
N.S.W. “Labor” Executive and the
Federal secretary of the party for dis-
obedience,” but it wouldn’t take a Nostra-
damus to predict the fate of the report.
Fraser will have a hard job to hold Eden-
Monaro next election, but no other
“Labor” man would stand a dog’s
chance.
• •
After the N.S.W. secretary of the
“Labor” party, W. Colbourne, had urged
the party’s youth conference in Sydney
“to lift themselves above faction-fights”
the delegates promptly voted against com-
pulsory-unionism and endorsed Aus-
tralia’s membership of Seato. No
public comment from Cahill and Evatt.
Demise of Adelaide’s trams and their
replacement by buses is being speeded-up
and the changeover is expected to be
completed by 1957 instead of 1963, as
originally planned. Single-decker diesel-
buses will be used and they’ll have three
doors, which should answer the criticism
that buses cannot fill or empty as easily
as trams. Trams will be retained on the
Glenelg line, where a special type of
vehicle is used, virtually an electric train.
\
• •
In the scornful chorus that has been
levelled at the R.A.A.F. over the Auster-
plane episode a point that has been over-
looked is that the Navy Sea Furies that
ultimately shot it down were alerted and
directed by the Air Force. R.A.N.
planes while land-based are under
R.A.A.F. control.
• •
Increased mechanisation of coalmines
is shown by N.S.W. Mines Department
figures released last week. Of the total
underground production of 13,703,000
tons last year 7,891,000 tons, or 57.6 per
cent., was mechanically cut; 8,436,000
tons, or 61.6 per cent., was mechanically
loaded. In 1945 the corresponding per-
centages were 36.9 and 22.5. Mechanisa-
tion is highest on the southern fields.
• •
“Melbn”: Now that the Melbourne
City Council has committed itself to the
skyscraper with all its implications in
traffic-congestion and so on, it might
usefully consider what Leonardo da
Vinci had to say on the subject 400 years
ago. In a note on town-planning he
wrote: “Let the street be as wide as the
universal height of the houses.”
• •
Heading of a press handout by the
Minister for National Development,
Senator Spooner, was “Building Rate
Improves.” Study of the document bore
out the truth of the assertion, but the
really serious news was that costs by the
end of last year and early this year were
up by 5 to 8 per cent., owing to marginal
increases for building-workers and trades-
men, and that “the full effect of the cost-
rises may not yet have been felt.” The
department expects this year’s costs to
be about 10 per cent, more than in mid-
1954—doleful news for those saving to
build homes.
• •
“A.C.T.”: What has happened to Aus-
tralian participation in the Common-
wealth Development Finance Co., Ltd.?
In its second financial year the company,
formed by the Bank of England and
U.K. industrial, mining, shipping and
banking concerns, negotiated new invest-
ments of about £4.8 million sterling in
Commonwealth development projects—
but none was in Australia. Canada got
a loan of 3,600,000 dollars and New’
Zealand one of £2,500,000. The total
investments and commitments at the
end of March was £9,751,000 sterling;
profit for the year was £25,016. The
company operates when applicants are
unable to raise' the whole of the neces-
sary capital in their own areas, but can
provide reasonable amounts out of their
own resources. Expert management has
to be promised, and projects must have
reasonable prospects of paying their way.
In addition, the project must not only
assist the development of the resources of
the country concerned, but should also
strengthen the balance-of-payments of
the sterling area. Surely Australia has
something worth while to offer on those
lines.
• •
“Biblio”: Expenditure on the Com-
monwealth Library this year will be
£153,000; the increase, about £ll,OOO, is
mostly due to higher salaries. There had
been some hopes that a larger amount
would be allocated to the Commonwealth
Literary Fund, but the total of £lO,OOO
is £2OOO less than last year.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
to Parramatta Park to watch
TT the Redex trial competitors depart.
This is a public park, but I had to pay
2s. for the car, 2s. for myself, and 2s. for
each passenger. Every year the Parra-
matta Park Trust takes advantage of the
Mental Hospital’s wistaria-fete to charge
motorists a parking-fee of 25., since it is
necessary to drive into the park to reach
the hospital grounds. The hospital gets
nothing at all out of it. Surely the time
“Ma! Fetch the tape-recorder !”
has arrived when public parks should be
leased to concessionaires capable of
exploiting them all the year round, and
not in this piecemeal manner! —“W.P.T.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ***
“Fitz”: Conversation overheard on a
Woollahra (Sydney) tram. First young
matron: “My husband says that he has
had it. If I have any more low-boys
he’s going to shoot through.” Second
young matron, with raised eyebrows:
“Low-boys! My dear, low-boys!”
First young matron, with giggles: “Did
I say low-boys? I mean lay-byes, my
dear.”
♦>
“P.M.”: The hefty cove had ordered
sandwiches, and intently watched their
preparation. “Ham’s pretty thin, mate,”
he growled. “Yes, this’s the best cutter
we’ve ever had,” the shopman side-
stepped. “You’re telling me!” Samson
exploded. “You could see the ruddy
butter through it if you’d put any butter
on!”
❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: The new house next
door at St. Ives, N. S. Wales, is
for sale, and we have been study-
ing the antics of the land-agents. One
man, to stop his rivals using the key,
which is supposed to be left in the
switch-box, simply took it away with
him. But we enjoyed more the other
agent who, having shown his clients
through the house, decided to hide the
key. He shifted aside an old petrol-
drum near the back-door, dug a little
hole like a bandicoot’s in the dust, buried
the key in it, replaced the petrol-drum
and departed. Then, fearing no doubt
that he himself might lose track of the
key if anybody moved the drum, he
came back, lifted the drum, uncovered
and reburied the key in the same spot,
replaced the drum, carefully marked the
location with his eye; examined the sky
for spies, and so once again departed. I
suffer from a terrible temptation to nip
over the fence and bury the key some-
where else, just to watch him searching
for it.
*l* ♦> ►>
“Ham”: Unusual uses for goalposts,
“X.S.” (B. 17/8/’55)? One of an impro-
vised pair used while I was one of
Adolf’s unwilling guests during the last
stoush concealed the aerial for our
verboten radio underneath the field and
entered via the latrine. Said post was
sawn lengthwise with a saw made from
a strip-spring taken from the bunk of
one of the guards. Also, often used one
of a pair to anchor nightly a removable
transmitting-aerial from my third-floor
room overlooking a Rose Bay (N.S.W.)
park.
❖ *t* ❖
“Maitri”: The . news that Judith
Anderson is to star in “Medea” will take
many Sydney theatre-goers back to the
days of Dorothea Spinney. Using Aus-
tralian Gilbert Murray’s translations of
Euripides, her only stage-props two
large torches which threw shadows of
the classically-arrayed actress on the back
curtain, with the effect, when needed, of
suggesting a crowd, she acted all the parts
cl Iphigema, Medea, and Alcestis.
She had a strong expressive voice and
the unique gift of being able to identify
erself with the characters heroes,
heroines, kings, shepherds, messengers,
chorus and the rest: we forgot it was
all the work of one person, pie one
other stage-personality I remember who
was able to bring this off successfully
was Ruth Draper. I have never found
full-cast performances of the tragedies
quite as satisfying as the Dorothea
pmney solo efforts her treatment of
the chorus was as indescribable as it is
ro\ f °ii§ e j tab 6 -' o ln <r ldental ly> the good
(!) old days m Sydney there was scarcely
“Wakey, wakey, dear—breakfast by courtesy of Electric
Blankets, Limited."
a dramatic school which did not stage
“The Trojan Women” at least once a
year. N .
❖ p
“Jobber”: “Macquarie” (B. 24/8/’55)
is only partly right in his quotation from
“The Sick Stockrider.” - My copy of
Gordon’s verse, printed in 1901, has the
last four lines running:
Should the sturdy station children pull the
bush flowers on my grave,
I may chance to hear them romping
overhead.
When I opened my copy to verify this
an envelope containing a sprig of pressed
wattle, which I took from Gordon’s grave
in 1904, fell on to the table.
❖ ♦> *
“Tonsi”: With Melbourne’s Degraves-
street subway at last receiving the finish-
ing touches the only remaining problem
is to work out what it’s for. It’s obvi-
ously for people who want to buy tickets,
but whether it’s for Tatt.’s customers who
want to travel by train, or for railway-
passengers who want to buy Tatt.’s
tickets —well, that’s anybody’s guess.
❖ ❖ *
“Doric”: I sometimes buy a carton of
sweets at a city shop and the girl atten-
dant always says, “Do you want it in a
bag?” I have often resolved to give a
cutting answer, but was beaten to it by
a lordly-looking person, who proclaimed
loudly, “My deah girl, if you think I’m
going to carry that around the city
dangling from one fingah, you’re vawstly
mistaken! ” He then stalked out from the
tittering shop with a bagged packet in
his hand. And I am no longer asked if
I will carry my carton unwrapped.
* ❖
“C.P.G.”: In 19 Saturdays Ballarat’s
new training-centre for retarded children
was put up by voluntary labor provided
by the Master Builders’ Association,
Allied Trades, and the Young Men’s
Club; and its playground equipped by
the Travellers’ Social Club. They should
be let loose on Australia’s Retarded
Housing scheme.
♦S ♦> *
“Bo”: How sensitively does the world
of commerce react to the slightest change
in the international barometer! For
years Sydney shops have been offering at
fancy prices a line of tinned salmon to
which Soviet exporters gave a name which
was the closest they could get to “Sock-
eye,” the famed Canadian product. It
was not so much the price as the origin
of the food which made some people hesi-
tate on political grounds. Then came a
seeming change-of-heart in place of the
former surly intransigence: the big party
thrown for the families of Western diplo-
mats, with Bulganin and Khrushchev
falling over backwards to make hearty
fellows of themselves, and later still the
jovial offer to have a couple of English
cricket-teams come to Moscow to show
the happy toilers in the Paradise what
really keeps the Commonwealth together,
The time was considered ripe for cordial
relations to swipe prejudice over the scone
with a tin-overcoated fish. Eschewing its
former almost-apologetic air, one Sydney
chain-store last week went the whole
hog and boldly proclaimed the salmon’s
Russian origin.
“’Herd”: You don’t know what’s in
the air for you. A helicopter wove
through the Queensland sky for nearly
a week, shepherding kids round school-
grounds in the Brisbane area, hovering
bee-like over the bright colors of Coolan-
gatta beaches, then darting back to put
in a couple of . days rescuing “flood-vic-
tims” in the middle of the Exhibition’s
arena and setting them down gently into
deck-chairs on Army ducks waiting on
the sidelines. All to the plaudits of most
of Queensland’s population. Ambling
home to wherever it hives south of
Sydney, it alights at Coff’s to rest itself
and with a mere half-dozen or so watch-
ing it tries to chew a corner off the
hangar. The big screw flies to pieces
and one piece savages a bystander’s foot
nearly off. Just goes to show there
couldn’t have been a bee-herder at Coff’s.
He would have rushed off and lit the
smoker.
❖
“C.A.L.”: Proud of the patronage his
diesel rail-cars are winning back to sub-
urban rail-transport, Westralia’s Minister
for Railways is not at all happy about
level-crossing accidents to 20 of the 22
cars in the last six months. Motorists
blame their color, which they say merges
with the scenery; others blame their
silent approach to level-crossings. So
different color-schemes are being tried
on the front of the cars, blinker-lights
and powerful klaxon-horns. No ways
have been found to distinguish the
“whispering deaths” at a distance, like
the steam-train’s tell-tale plume of smoke.
One correspondent suggested that each
car be equipped with a cylinder of com-
pressed smoke.
❖ *i* ***
“Doynest”: My office lasses are quiet
and nicely-spoken (to me at any rate);
not the type you expect to hear really
bad language from. So it was a shock
when I came upon them counting the
contents of a small money-box, and, on
asking what it was for, was informed,
“It’s our swear-box, Mr. D. What do
you think—we’ve got almost enough for
a night-out at the theatre!” Consider-
ing what an evening’s entertainment costs
these days, this was pretty good going, as
the pair have only been with me four
months. Pennies comprised the bulk of
this penance, I’m glad to say, indicating
that their lapses were mainly venial;
a few odd trey-bits and sixpences repre-
sented more serious falls from grace, I
was given to understand. I’m still
wondering just what a solitary shilling
stood for. • --
APPRECIATION
“To the first glance of a European eye the
life of an Australian writer may seem a poor
and solitary thing. There is no large and
prosperous educated class, no intelligentsia to
discuss his work, appreciate his talents, and
invite him to dinner.” London “Times
Literary Supplement.”
The lone Australian author in his hovel
Engaged upon a poem or a play
Or putting vulgar people in a novel
Is unhappier than anyone can say:
No millionaire calls on him to appraise
him
And tell him what a clever chap he is,
No wealthy, lovely, learned girl waylays
him
And tucks him in at bedtime with a
kiss.
In England, now, Sir Anthony is waiting
To welcome any budding novelist,
And Mr. Butler ceases calculating
At the thought of some young poet
feeling triste:
"Still working on ‘The Ashes of
Repentance’?” —
They phone if Winstons taken out the
car—
" What? Six more words! That’s almost
half a sentence !
I just can’t wait —do tell me what they
are !”
Or some stockbroker says, "You’re look-
ing thinner ;
We worshippers at Beauty’s shrine, old
boy,
Are better for an intellectual dinner —
You’ll join me, will you not, at the
Savoy?”
And then they set their starving mouths
to working
On bordelaise combined with Baude-
laire
1 ill the sounds of brilliant literary
gurking
And gay iambic hiccups fill the air.
Oh, l wish I had a millionaire advising
In the tasteful, rich seclusion of his
home
In a manner both expert and
sympathising
On what to do to finish this here
pome !
I might even, for a cheque for fifty
thousand,
In poor appreciation of my wit,
Give the millionaire the poem like a
mouse, and
My own advice on how to deal with it.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


XT’S amazing how little or how much a
second-hand car can be worth.
Bought mine two years ago, paying £225,
plus interest, for it. Tried to trade it in
for another. Market-price according to
advertising-columns is still from £lB5 to
£225. Best offer I could get was £lOO.
Decided to cut my losses and advertise
it privately for £l3O. Got one bite—a
dealer, who again offered me £lOO. Put
another advertisement in, asking £l5O.
Got half-a-dozen bites, and finally sold
it for £l4O. Now tell me how much it
was worth?—“No Sirrah.”
♦> ❖ *X*
“Peers”: At the science conference in
Melbourne the mathematical fraternity
were about to appoint a committee, when
a delegate suggested that they might
be represented by their professor-elect,
“who is on the verge of being appointed.”
Came a voice from across the room:
“Daddy got it with the bumper-bar on the New England Highway.”
“Suppose that means a virgin professor. ’
That’s pure mathematics for you.
+♦♦ *X+ ❖
“Harbel”: Near the toy-counter
of a big Sydney store in front
of a display featuring bow-and-arrow
outfits, a boy of about five stood, a bow
in his hand and the happy smile of
accomplishment on his face. I followed
his aspiring gaze—an arrow hung, tail-
down, from the ceiling, firmly defying
gravity with its rubber suction-cap tip.
The kid’s mother was standing staring,
obviously stumped. Up spoke the girl
behind the counter, “It’ll be all right;
don’t bother about it.” “Don’t bother
about it, be blowed,” retorted the mother.
“I’ve just bought it!” Don’t know what
.arrangement was made, but I saw them
in Pitt-street later, the mother leaping
upon the embryo William Tell just as he
had a bead drawn on a policeman.
*i* ❖
“Mugga Way”: Confusion caused in
the highest circles in the U.S. by the
mistaking at Houston, Texas, of the
"Indian Ambassador for a negro recalls
that a few years ago a Deep South negro
donned a turban and did the rounds
of ighklars hotels in several large cities,
announcing himself as the Rajah of
Somewhere-or-Other. He was received
with great ceremony and permitted to
occupy the best apartments. He dis-
closed his real identity in a magazine-
story that caused a furore in Mississippi
and Georgia. In Houston myself three
years ago I asked the president of the
Rice Institute there if he admitted colored
students. He said that unfortunately the
college’s constitution forbade it. “But
you have some Chinese students,” I said.
“Yes,” he replied, “but of course they’re
not colored .”
* * ❖
“Emjai”: Reference to the copying-
presses of other days by “Ceg”
(B. 17/8//55) reminds me of a hefty
young bank clerk who left a trail of
broken presses in his progression through
the branches. He developed into an
inter-State oarsman. He outdid wrest-
lers Ted Thye, Mike Yokel and Clarrie
Eckland on the grip-testing machine at
their training-quarters during theifv first
visit to Melbourne, and in his mature
years branch juniors goggled while the
big chief held the heavy office poker
horizontal with a two-finger grip near
the point, bent it around his biceps and
straightened it with his hands. Presses
were out by then. But he had a lighter
touch, too. He wielded a nice brush on
watercolors; was an artist at leather-
plaiting, from fine sixteen-strand wrist-
watch bands to mammoth stockwhips;
and could make a typewriter throw
sparks. In between, he was a crack
rifle-shot and keen fisherman, and a
skilled woodworker and model-engineer,
his workshop turning out operating
Steam-engines and speed-boats complete
in all details. He was general-manager
of his bank when he passed on some
years ago.
“Artist’s studio, please."
“S.”: The sarsaparilla, trailing its long
stringy tendrils and tiny purple pea-
flowers over the ground, is now in full
glory around Sydney; and my neighbor,
thinking she might be able to loot a
plant for her garden, took hold of one
of the tendrils in the scrub by the road-
side and began to trail back along it
yard by yard to the parent plant. Two
blokes came by. “What y’ doin’ there,
Mum?” they asked. “Fishin’?”
* ❖ ❖
“Ranji”: In the local library a series
of romantic novels by an author named
Trask are neatly bound, with the titles
hand-printed in indian ink. The last book
in the group, Love Brings a Song , might
be thought to be by the same author if it
were not clearly lettered TRASH.
&
“Baggyduds”: One Sydney Bung has
no-balled with his lounge murals. A
notice says, “Herein are depicted scenes
from Australia’s natural rural beauty” ;
then a quotation also extolling our bucolic
charm:
With natural glories she is blessed,
And bounteous to behold.
But depicted are Rhododendron, Apple,
Cherry, Lilac and jacaranda festivals!
Cor lumme!
+X* ❖
“Norque”: Julian Huxley in From an
Antique Land tells how England deprived
itself of precious condensed-milk so that
the morale of the Cretans during the
German Occupation could be maintained.
After the war a Cretan woman, asked if
they had not been grateful for such a wel-
come addition to the children’s food, said
that they would never dream of eating
the stuff or forcing it on their children,
but it did help rear very big and fat pigs
which they sold to the English, when they
came back, at a very good price. Yes,
they were very grateful.
. ♦> ♦♦♦ v
“Peter Simple”: Last December when
the letter-boxes in our village were being
repainted, the painter left out holiday
clearances. The district postal-inspector
was told about it, made an inspection in
January and promised the omission
would be rectified “as soon as possible.
It was done today, August 25, and now
everyone is happy again.
*** ♦♦♦ ❖
“Ventam”: How do they do it? In a
busy (Friday night) suburban street, a
policeman motioned a motor-cyclist to
the kerb. Apparently drunk, the rider
managed to pull his machine in. He then
“alighted” and, with a burst of Dutch
courage, attempted to make a run for
it. After a few strides he collapsed in a
forlorn heap on the footpath.
* ❖ ❖
“X.Q.X.”: The make-believe atomic
bomb fired at Greenbank, near Brisbane,
sent my mind back to 1939-40. We had
four guns in the regiment, and no doubt
they had been very good guns in their
heyday, but most of our gun-drill was
done with four stones, one to represent
the muzzle, one the trail-eye and one
each wheel of an imaginary gun. Em-
barking for the M.E., where, we were
told, there were plenty of guns, we left
the old 18-pounders and the stones for
the next batch of recruits. In England,
soon after the fall of France, we became
footsloggers, counting ourselves lucky
when we got a worn-out rifle apiece. By
the time we embarked again we had
three Brens and one Tommy-gun per
company. On arrival in Palestine a few
of us wangled our way back to the
artillery, where we found gunners going
through their paces round the familiar
four stones. Again we had a strange
collection of out-of-date guns ; we finally
got something serviceable (four 25’s and
four 18’s) en route to battle-stations at
Mersa Matruh. At least the present-day
trainees have something that produces a
loud bang and a lot of smoke, so it seems
they are one-up on us.
' *x* ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Tin Pan Alley comes to
light with unashamed nonsense ad lib.,
but one monger from that address may
have been more astute than even he rea-
lised when he produced a waggishly
satirical little number called: “All I
Want Is All There Is—And Then Some.”
The sentiment of this pop. fits the
philosophy of the modem generation
perfectly.
THE WRONG APPROACH
“Yogi is a form of self-discipline which can
be beneficial to all, from the lover to the
law-maker.” —Radio speaker.
Observe that young man with the chocs.
And the theatre-tickets — he’s silly!
He hopes to possess her,
And thinks they’ll impress her;
But her response, though, could be
chilly.
He also is in for some shocks
If later, as homeward they’re wending,
On fondest professions
And loving expressions
He’s foolishly, rashly, depending.
If only he’d see his mistake !
Much surer he’d be in commanding
Her steadfast affection
By hour-long reflection
The while on one hoof he was standing.
Hot kisses won’t give him the break ;
But if on one elbow he’s leaning,
Refraining from blinking,
And even from thinking —
She’ll see in that love’s tender
meaning.
You see politicians get in;
They’ve snored and they’ve bored as
they spouted;
They’ve sworn and they’ve ranted,
And. humbly recanted —
And then next election been outed.
It’s hard, we admit with a grin.
Yet they’ve only themselves to be
blaming,
With “aye”-ing and “no”-ing
And hot-and-cold blowing,
And given to heated declaiming.
But the M.P. who’ll stick to his seat
(And yet paradoxical, this is)
Is he who’ll cut twaddle
And stand on his noddle —
He’ll really find, then, what true
bliss is.
The ballot-box bogy he’ll beat. .
And remember this also, my brothers:
In such a position
This strange politician
Would be as much use as the others.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
A HEAD TOO HIGH
A WEATHER-BLEACHED old piece
of passenger rolling-stock, weed-
bound at the end of a disused siding near
Sydney, made me rub my scalp reflec-
tively when I counted the six squat
cylinders spaced along its peeling roof.
These cylinders were the emplacements
for the oil-lamps which lighted the
coaches of the vintage to which the
museum-piece belonged, and led to my
premature baldness at the age of twelve.
Just before the turn of the century, a
party of us lads, making a trip from
Parramatta to Sydney, noted the absence
of the oil-lamp. Probably it was being
cleaned in a porter’s office ready for the
night-journeys.
The empty port fascinated us,
especially as the hinged lid on top could
be thrown open to make an observation-
post. By mutual consent I, being the
youngest, was to try it out.
For a time I enjoyed vistas of Gran-
ville, Clyde and Auburn from a new
angle, but trying to pull my head in
(after catching a cinder in the eye) I
found it wouldn’t come down. Worse
still, the overhead bridges as we reached
the more populous suburbs grew more
numerous and appeared lower, and I
expected decapitation with the train’s
passage of each.
Several mates tugged at my legs, but
the thought of hanging or choking to
death made me yell to them to desist.
Beheading would be quicker.
Then came the “bottle-neck” tunnel
with its ceiling of soot, slag and slime
from thousands of steam engines which
had passed beneath the low . arches for
nearly 40 years. The black mat hung
inches thick, and my head carved a wide
swath through it, the speed of the train
causing no little friction between the top
of my cranium and the dark felt layer,
tugging out quite a bit of hair and
scorching the scalp.
Shaking with fright, and risking having
my ears tom off, I kicked madly, and my
head popped its way out of the cylinder
like a tough cork from a bottle.
Never again did I wonder what the
scenery looked like from a carriage-roof,
and, fortunately for other inquisitive
youths, it was not long afterwards that
the railways installed mantle gas-lamps
in carriages.
C.A.L.


Keep in
good
spirits
Ghlandfc
AdNVua
IVXMSOH d
HI9NS
ais a'"*'
PERSONAL ITEM!
Sydney’s Savage Club has notched its
majority: for almost the whole of that
time, under the secretaryship of Adrian
Ashton, who has produced, in book-
form, the club’s history. Formed to bring
together men connected with musical
and artistic life of Sydney, the club has
some prominent monickers on its mem-
bership-list. Under music, Alfred Hill,
Sir Eugene Goossens, Ronald Dowd,
John Fullard, Lindley Evans and Frank
Hutchens; art, Ted Scorfield, John
Frith, Monte Luke, Jim Russell and Les
Dixon; radio, Wilfrid Thomas, Ellis
Price, Marshall Crosby, Eric Pearse. Sir
John Northcott’s an honorary member.
• •
Back in 1930 John Walton (pic-
tured here) and James Colgan
joined, almost together, the Aus-
tralian side of America’s National Cash
Register company. Today they’re still
working in close cahoots —in Walton’s,
soon to be Walton-Sears. A good indi-
cation of how Walton’s has shot ahead
since it first hit the buying public in the
three Eastern States with a spectacular
burst of advertising in 1953 is the fact
that Sears, Roebuck (which does more
business than all the chain-stores in the
U.S. combined) has agreed to come in
PSYCHOLOGY
with it. Junior salesman with the
cash-register people, in less than
five years a director, and then
managing-director (the first Australian in
that post), Walton started his advertising
on a Thursday. On the Friday he
opened for business. The expected
opening-rush brought in half a handful
of customers. Colgan and Walton looked
at each other. They went upstairs, not
knowing that there had been a break-
down in the electric-train service. Half-
an-hour later came an urgent call for all
hands. Colgan, one-time cash-register
expert, took station behind one of the
machines he used to sell. Two hours
later, when his wife forced her way
through the milling mob, she asked:
“Why don’t you take your hat off?”
Later on Walton’s surprised Sydneyites
by arranging free train-travel for all
customers on special occasions. Today
Walton’s run 22 stores in Queensland,
N.S.W. and Victoria.
• •
D. F. Lawden, senior lecturer in Mathe-
matics at the College of Technology in
Birmingham (Eng.), goes to a similar
post at Canterbury University College,
New Zealand. In Hitler’s war he was
in charge of radar-operations in sea-
defence at Gibraltar; instructed in artil-
lery survey in Britain, and lectured on
fire-control computing instruments.
Expert, as Well, on ballistics and rockets
in the upper atmosphere, he is a member
of the council of the British Inter-plane-
tary Society.
Dr. A. Talbot Rogers, a councillor of
the B.M.A. in London, in Sydney for
the medical congress, was born at Port
Wallaroo (S.A.). His father was chief-
chemist at the Wallaroo smelting-works.
• •
“O.D. 11”: The Navy’s worried about
its recruiting-lag. If anybody can raise
the bodies, it’s the two men most
interested —Commodore James Cairns
(“Copper”) Morrow and Captain lan
Hunter McDonald. Morrow (just
appointed naval A.D.C. to the Queen)
plans to correlate his recruiting drive
with a migration scheme—bringing out
trained R.N. men, with their wives and
families. McDonald (recently appointed
Inspector of Recruiting) will have on his
slop-chit the efficiency of recruiting-
staffs in all capital cities. Both officers
are essentially destroyermen. Morrow
had Voyager in the Scrap-Iron Flotilla,
and in 1944 added D.S.C. to his D.S.O.
for sinking, with destroyer Arunta, a
Jap submarine off Moresby. On college-
graduation he won the King’s Medal for
“having exhibited the most gentleman-
like bearing and good influence.” He
still exhibits those qualities. McDonald
(one-time captain of destroyer-cwm-
cruiser Tobruk) has the same quietly-
efficient, approachable mark of the com-
petent destroyer-man. They should team
well together.
• •
Taking on Knox Grammar in Sydney,
Dr. Thomas Ross McKenzie moves south
from the Brisbane Boys’ College, princi-
pal. Widely-educated—universities of
Queensland, Melbourne, London —the
new head has taught as widely: Albury
Grammar (N.S.W.), Thornburgh College
(North Queensland) and at the Royal
Merchant Navy’s school in Berkshire
(Eng.). He was head of Albury Grammar
at. 23. Extra-tutorial interests have
ranged from presidency of the northern
State’s Headmasters’ Association and of
the G.P.S. Sports Association to chair-
manship of Brisbane’s Shakspeare
Society and a councillorship of Boy
Scouts.
• •
“C.Q.”: Melbourne has acquired
another centenarian —Percy Summers, of
Fitzroy. Bertrand Russell said that what
kept Bernard Shaw alive was controversy.
What has kept Mr. Summers alive is
draughts. He is secretary of the Mel-
bourne Draughts Club, has been playing
draughts for 50 years, and played a game
to celebrate his hundredth summer.
• •
“Allan B.”: Ever heard of a Cabinet
Minister, apart from Churchill, who
could paint? Not paint the town
golden with promises, but really
paint well enough to get exhibited in
the Artists’ Society. One such is Vic-
torian Minister for Labor, John Staughton
Bloomfield, who on the day in 1953 he
was sworn in as a member had a painting
chosen for exhibition for the first time.
He’s been exhibiting regularly since.
Tall, military-looking, Bloomfield was
bom in his own electorate of Malvern,
educated at Geelong Grammar (rowed
in the 1920 head-of-the-river crew), and
won his Blue at Melbourne University.
He won the Malvern seat at a by-election
on the death of the Liberal-leader,
T. D. Oldham, with whom Bloom-
field was in legal partnership. An
Army legal officer early in War H, rank
of captain, Bloomfield later crossed to
the artillery. He served in the Western
Desert and New Guinea, ending-up a
regimental commander and lieut.-colonel.
• •
Called it a day after 50 years in the
Westralian Education Department, Victor
F. Box, in his time headmaster, Superin-
tendent of Secondary Education and
Deputy-Director of Education. Will
brush up on geography, on an extended
tour of the British Isles.
A. D. Macdonald, a genial cleric now
in the pulpit of St. Mary’s, Perth, has
resumed an old friendship with his Arch-
bishop, Dr. R. W. H. Moline. He was
on the staff of St. Paul’s, Knightsbridge,
when the Archbishop was rector there,
and a War II air-raid warden. Macdon-
ald himself did intelligence work through-
out the war; his wife won M.B.E. for
her work with women’s service in the
same shindy.
• •
An important visitor to Australia is
Dr. Luther H. Evans, formerly librarian
of the U.S. Congress and a professor of
Princeton University, but since 1953
Director-General of U.N.’s Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organisation. On
the way from his Paris headquarters he
visited Egypt, India, Indonesia and
New Zealand, and he’ll take a look at
Pakistan on the return trip; since his
Unesco appointment he has visited 46
countries. A big, pleasant cove, he really
wants to know what Australians think
of the organisation’s work—not interested
in polite compliments, but real criticism.
He listens to all you have to say with a
dead-pan face, then breaks into a cap-
tivating smile when you’ve finished. At
present an exhibition of our aboriginal
culture is touring the U.S., and an out-
standing Unesco publication is the
album containing reproductions of
Binghi paintings.
• •
Twenty-five years back Gordon Troup,
of Christchurch (N.Z.), won a travelling
scholarship to the University of Poitiers,
France. His research in arranging French
phonetics for teaching the language to
English-speaking people has just brought
him, from the University of France,
award of the Licence des Lettres.
• •
Cyrus Townsend Brady, Junior, is, as
one might guess, an American. And
(which is also not strange) the principal
cities of the world are as familiar to
him as is Paris to a Kansas City tourist.
Son of a well-known American author,
Cyrus graduated from Harvard in 1908,
and thereupon began his travels. By
profession a civil-engineer, for 37 years
he represented a leading U.S. steel-
exporting firm in the Philippines and
South America. By choice (in retire-
ment) a photographer and anthropologist,
he’s taken in a lot of South Africa, and
has been several times to this country.
On his 1949 visit he put on a large
photographic display in Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide; his
present exhibition—titled “Men of One
Mind,” and designed to show the con-
necting pattern in primitive art through-
out the world —is showing in the South
Australian Museum, and is due in
Sydney’s National Gallery in November
next. Last year, at the Cartoonists’ and
Illustrators’ School in New York, he dis-
played a show of Australian humor-art,
composed mainly of original Bulletin
PHOTOGRAPHY
drawings—Norman Lindsay, Unk White,
Ted Scorfield, with some Weps and
Merciers. The secretary of the National
Cartoonists’ Association was so fas-
cinated with Norman Lindsay’s tech-
nique in one of his back-block joke-
blocks that he got hold of it to hang in
his office, swapping therefor some of
the work of America’s best-known
cartoonists, including a sketch of Walt
Disney’s.
“H.H.” (London): There surely never
was a more indefatigable patron of the
arts than Val Vallis, the Queensland
poet (and Bulletin “Sundry Show-
man” in Brisbane), now home
after an eventful two years in
Europe on a Queensland University
travelling scholarship. Immediately
on arrival at Euston from Liver-
pool he hurried pell-mell to the Royal
Festival Hall to hear Kirsten Flagstad’s
PHILOSOPHY
farewell performance. In his first week
he saw eight shows and in his first fort-
night 15. He visited France, Germany,
Italy, Austria, Holland and Ireland,
mainly in search of the best opera that
could be found in a European summer.
These included “Parsifal” at Bayreuth and
“The Ring” at Munich. He saw Feucht-
wangler at Salzburg and —one of his best
memories—the Marcel Marceau Mime
Show in Paris. In London he found he
preferred Sadler’s Wells to Covent
Garden and was so carried away by the
Old Vic’s Henry IV, part I, that he
cancelled a trip to Scotland in order not
to miss part 11. His academic purpose
was to study aesthetics, and in between
wanderings he found time to prepare and
write a thesis. The result is a just-
awarded Ph.D.
9 •
Into the Silence:
In Auckland (N.Z.), Elsey Arthur Cook,
managing-editor of the Rodney and Otamatea
“Times,” Warkworth. Earlier in the Adelaide
branch of the Bank of N. S. Wales, at the
outbreak of War I he joined the A.1.F., was
at the Landing, later in France, and was twice
wounded. Joining the New Zealand High
Commissioner’s office in London after the war,
he was one of the first Enzedders to qualify
for a pilot’s licence in England.
In Sydney, at 65, a few months since retiring
after eight years in the Sydney Chair of
Physiology, Frank Stanley Cotton, remembered
by War II fighter-pilots for his anti-G, anti-
blackout flying-suit. He applied his widely-
known physiological theories of athletic
training to himself —winning a Blue for
swimming and the N.S.W. 440yds. and 880yds.
swimming titles in 1921; he also held for over
20 years all Sydney University swimming
records from 220yds. to one mile. He had
trained many world-known Australian athletes
—swimmers, scullers and runners.
At 78, in Broome, Con Gill, one of the
town’s most colorful personalities. Jamaican-
born, he deserted his ship at the pearling-
town in 1902, to become bosun of one of
Broome’s largest pearling-fleets. In 1915 he
joined the Rodriguez family at the Continental
Hotel and remained there through the many
changes of ownership until his death. He
wielded a strong influence among Broome’s
colored population and acted as intermediary
in many disputes among pearling-crews. A fine
judge of pearls, he was called in on many
business deals, and knew well most of the
big pearl-buyers of the world. He is featured
in books of Idriess, Henrietta Drake-Brockman
and Ernestine Hill.
In Sydney, at 59, Frederick Charles Wootten,
for five years head of Canterbury (Sydney)
High School. A sergeant of the old 55th, he
was severely wounded in France, and lost two
brothers ther6.
In Melbourne, at 63, Major Percy Lay, whose
portrait, as typifying the Australian Digger,
was hung in the National War Museum. On
Gallipoli and in France, he won M.C., D.C.M.,
M.M. and Croix de Guerre, and was back in
uniform, administering, for War 11. At
Alphingon (Vic.), he ran a property, formerly
the country home of Governor Latrobe. Well-
known in the Naval and Military Club.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 52, Horace Hollin-
rake, Professor of Music at Auckland Univer-
sity College since 1935. His son Roger carries
on, lecturer in musicology at the same college.


SHEEP-TO-THE-ACRE COUNTRY


ABORIGINALITIES
THE so-called “lost tribe” of Bindaboos
whose “Shangri-la Valley” has
aroused such a hullabaloo in the southern
press do exist, but they are not, and never
have been, a “lost tribe”; nor is their
country a “Shangri-la.”
They are actually the Pintibu tribe,
known to the Wailbris of Central Aus-
tralia as Pintubis. Their existence has
always been known to the other Cen-
tralian tribes, and they have, from time
to time, come in to Mount Doreen and
even Yuendumu on ceremonial occasions.
Only a week or so ago a party of seven
Pintibus came into Mt. Doreen for a few
days on corroboree business.
The Pintibus are real desert Myalls.
They are skinny, with matted hair and
great bushy beards. The seven at Mt.
Doreen were naked, but had their own
style of adornment —one had his beard
divided in two and tied at the bottom
with the tail of a desert-rat.
The country these people live in north
of Lake Mackay is so arid they are
forced to live in family groups, coming
together only at corroboree times. They
do not use the boomerang; their only
weapons are the spear and throwing-
stick.
Veritas.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Touching on “Howie Wing’s”
claim that the farmer’s first reaction on
seeing a cow dozing is that she may be
sick (B. 3/8/’55) —I worked for a cow-
cocky during the depresh and I still recall
vividly his reaction when he caught me
dozing once just after midnight. When
he found I wasn’t dead he sacked me.
* * * *"
“Bass”: Reported that a W.A. farmer,
driving a utility, saw an emu with two
“D'y' think he's sneering at us?"
chicks ahead and drew to the side of the
road to avoid them, but as soon as he
was past the chicks the emu charged,
getting in a hearty chest-blow on the
driving-side door. Maybe it’s a “record”
for a bird to attack a car, but I’ve seen
an emu turn on an attacking dog and
strike it with the hard structure on its
breast, and a dog struck fair and square
retires hurt. An emu with chicks is
usually spoiling for a fight, so maybe it
would just as likely attack a car as a dog.
The report said it was a “mother” emu
—presumably because it was with the
chicks. I’ll lay the odds it was Dad.
Mum doesn’t take much interest in the
eggs after they’re laid; she leaves the
bulk of the hatching to her mate —a long
job taking nearly nine weeks —and she
doesn’t help much with the rearing until
the chicks are nearly old enough to look
after themselves. In fact, the male will
often shepherd the chicks away from her.
* * * *
“Allan B”: In a little church at
Warrion (Vic.) the organist suddenly let
out a squeal. A long snake was gliding
towards her. The singing stopped, there
was dead silence, and all the women in
the congregation stood on the seats. A
burly bloke rested his hands on the pews
and raised himself up, and as Joe wriggled
away from such a lot of unfriendly
un-Christian characters he thumped down
with his hobnailed boots. “We will now
begin Evensong all over again,” said the
minister,
* * * *
“Moontongue”: I’ve been doing post-
mortems on snakes on and off for half
a century, but I have yet to see a tiger
with 100 young in its body—the most
I have found is 22; they usually range
from 18 to that number. The young in
the oviduct are neatly curled up, and
appear to be in a cellophane egg, as they
are quite visible. Many people kill small
carpet-snakes in mistake for tigers, and
it may be possible for a large one of this
species to have 100 young. Also, I doubt
if the female snake would eat its young
at birth, but they would fall easy prey
to crows, magpies, kookaburras and
butcher-birds.
* * * *
“Nangabrook”: What’s miscalled
“dry-rot” is a fungoid growth, or the
result of one; and the presence of a
fungus is often almost impossible to
detect until it sends out fruiting bodies.
Until then the whole body of the fungus
is simply a mass of very fine threads.
Each thread, or hypha, begins as a spore,
probably consisting of only one cell,
which divides into two, the two into four,
and so on, the growth being only length-
wise. This thread isn’t to be confused
with a root. It feeds along its entire
body, and it can grow only when it’s in
contact with suitable organic substance
such as decayed animal- or vegetable-
matter. A dead or dying tree, or a post
or a heap of manure may be threaded
through and through by myriads of
hyphse (which together form a mycelium)
before the fungus reveals any evidence
of its presence. When two distinct hyphas
in a mycelium come into contact with
each other under suitable conditions they
conjugate, or fuse, and from the junction
a swelling develops which becomes the
fruiting body—a mushroom, toadstool, or,
in the case of dry-rot, one of the many
varieties of “blackfellow’s bread.”
This conjugation is the fungal equivalent
of pollination in flowers, and the body
it produces yields spores instead of seeds.
“Is she moulting, Dad?”
“Kerba”: If ever there is a world’s
championship for the biggest insect
(judged on length, not girth or weight)
Australia might win with the stick-insect.
This unbelievable creature can measure
9in. to Ift. from tip to tip without stretch-
ing its long, bramble-like legs forward or
behind. The stick-insect must also repre-
sent Nature’s masterpiece of camouflage:
a boobook owl, sitting motionless on a
branch with beak pointed upwards, can
give a creditable imitation of a broken-
off limb, but the bird would not deceive
a really observant eye; it is virtually im-
possible, however, at a quarter the range,
to identify a thin, dead stick attached to
half-a-dozen twigs as being a living
creature.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: Jack, an old abo. well-
known throughout a large section of the
N.T., could be 80, 90 or even 100 years
old, but, like most natives, he has no idea
how old he really is. A young abo. was
asked by a visitor his own age. “Me
thirty-three,” was the prompt reply. “And
how old is that fellow Jack?” the visitor
pursued. “Jack close up twenty, boss,”
the youngster said.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: A harsh cackle mingled
with discordant cawing high overhead,
and I looked up to see a white-breasted
sea-eagle cleaving its regal pathway
through the sky, assailed by angry crows.
Kelly’s malice towards the great sea-
eagle—very evident round this stretch
of central N.S.W. coastline —is, at first
sight, a bit of a mystery. Neither Kelly’s
person nor eggs are menaced by the
eagle, and high flyers are usually more
tolerant about territorial rights than their
more earthbound brethren. However,
what is at stake in this case is regional
rights of a sort —actually beachcombing
rights. Coastwise crows earn their living
partly from offal and carrion left by
the tide. Here they enter into serious
competition with the sea-eagle, also an
assiduous scavenger of the water’s-edge.
Hence the hostility.
* * * *
“Old Black Joe”: “Jock” (B. 10/8//55)
mentions that Billy Waite, the aboriginal,
was the only man to have conquered the
outlaw Bobs. True, Waite rode the horse
with some success, but it was L. Y.
McLean who beat Waite on points by
riding Bobs to a standstill.
* * * *
“Warrakoo”: The little sunbirds were
obviously an affectionate pair, and we
hadn’t the heart to refuse them the use of
our back-veranda. They annoyed us a
little by hogging the bathroom at odd
times, and we thought that he was slightly
effeminate in the way he spent so much
time before the mirror. The few bunches
of bananas hanging on the veranda some-
what discommoded the little lady, so we
moved one away to allow more sunlight
in. And then she really got busy. It took
her only two days to construct on the
wire a dainty little nest (which had a
tailpiece flapping in the breeze and a
neat porchway over the entrance), made
of pieces of bark, spiderweb, chicken-
down and other odds and ends, including
several strands of' plumber’s hemp filched
from a recently-installed water-system.
I admire her industry, zeal and skill, and
also her patience—she has an eight-day
sitting before she starts on the intermin-
able to-and-from flights to feed the twins
when they arrived. But most of all I
admire his technique. He hasn’t done a
darned thing since the show began except
admire his reflection and sit around on
the cannas twittering useless advice.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: No questions asked by
Queensland Railways as to our mong’s
pedigree, health-status, etc., when we
railed him from an inland sheep-town to
the coastal port. Trouble on the return,
though. Did we have a certificate of
freedom from “stickfast flea-fever”? We
didn’t: had never heard of it. But we
got one. Our pooch didn’t have the
malady, and we missed the train. Appar-
ently it was O.K. to bring the “s.f.f.” to
town, but not to take it out. Anyway,
anybody know anything about it?
* * * *
AS a native of Winton (Q.) I’m
familiar with the tree “Diamon-
dem” (B. 6/7/’55) describes. The Mexican
mesquite and the algaroba have taken pos-
session here. Winton Council was respon-
sible for the importation of the trees for
street-beautification over 25 years ago.
While the mesquite took hold and ran
riot in the Diamantina River channels
around the town, the algaroba comman-
deered the town itself. Now it’s every-
where and is generally a curse. As I
write I look at half-an-acre of it/in mad
profligacy in the heart of town; some
of the trees sport heavy green thorns like
saddlers’ awls, up to 3in. long.
A trial-area of mesquite was sprayed
some months ago ; the outer branches and
young growth died, but the trees are
shooting strongly again. Unseasonal May
floods may have helped them to survive;
the experiment can hardly be conclusive
in this case. Just out of town are many
splendid specimens of mesquite, huge,
shady and ornamental; these big trees
far outclass any local algarobas. It
would be regrettable if they were
destroyed in this tree-starved country,
but the outstanding exceptions do not
compensate for the acres of thorny
mongrel growth with which they are sur-
rounded ; in the town the algaroba stands
similarly condemned. I recommend
neither for planting in any pastoral
district. They are a lesson that other
governing bodies could profit from.
The “Aboriginalities” scribe was right
who said that, instead of new tree-
importations, we would do well to stick
to our native friends!
Wintonite.
WEST-NORTH-WEST
This is the wind that so surprises,
Waking up from uneven rest
The ups and downs of the stony rises
Out of the north, out of the west;
Roughing the winter-coated cattle
Looking for herbage hard to find
Down where the withered reed-beds rattle
Like an ancient cane veranda-blind.
This is the wind goes out a-hunting
By lone farmhouses where clothes-lines nap
An SOS with distressful bunting
And frenzied windmills chatter and clap;
The bully that pushes the spring-time back,
Stripping the fruit-blossom, flooding the lanes
Where the farmer wears an inverted sack,
Pixie-fashion, against the rains.
This is the wind that whoops and whistles
The tempest up and the trampling hail,
Seizing the down of the last dried thistles,
Tossing it out on the long, long trail:
Weed-seed, storm-seed, seed of the rain
And the cold and the turmoil above, beneath —
This is the hand of Jason again
Sowing, sowing the dragon’s teeth.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


/"''LARA is in charge of the N.G.
native-village school.
“I have one boy,” said Clara; “his
name is Angapoo, and he comes from
Timbunke ; he’s really the brightest kid
in the school. Now and then, when he
had done a particularly good piece of
work, I used to say to him: ‘You are
very good, Angapoo.’
“After a while, whenever I commended
him in any way, he would say, himself,
‘I am very good!’ until, of course, I had
to stop him. Well, yesterday, I was
telling the class the meaning of the word
‘beautiful.’ I said, the sun is beautiful,
the moon is beautiful, the birds and trees
are beautiful, everything that is good is
beautiful. A little later I was correcting
Angapoo’s sums; they were all right,
and neat into the bargain: I said I was
very pleased. Angapoo started: ‘I am
very’
“ ‘Angapoo, that’s enough! If you say
you are very gobd I shall be cross.’
“ ‘No,’ said Angapoo, ‘I am very
beautiful! ”’
Peter Piper.
* * * *
“Sixtoes”: After reading what the
Chief of the Imperial General Staff had
to say about the Enzed troops’ “lemon-
squeezer” hat—“ghastly and terrible and
useless in any form of recognised com-
bat,” but admitting that it did stand for
New Zealand in the eyes of the world —
I was so touched I went and got mine off
a nail in the woolshed, brushed off the
cobwebs and promoted it to the hat-rack
in the hall. It was a treat to see the
missus wearing it to feed the fowls this
morning, and, as if to give the lie to the
general, she came back with the eggs in it.
* * * *
“Kesem”: Leichhardt’s “unknown”
glucking-bird, first heard on an 1844
moonlight night just south of the Great
Dividing Range in what is now South
Queensland, has never been identified.
Alex Chisholm suggests it was the large-
tailed nightjar, whose ornithological name
means “goat-sucker.” Local birdmen
argue that this bird is not found as far
south as the 26th Parallel. One observer
“It'll have to do, Dunks —beggars can't be choosers .”
believes the glucking-bird was the coucal-
cuckoo (swamp-pheasant), as the glucking
or gurgling sound is characteristic of the
cuckoo’s night-call. Leichhardt’s remark
that the female echoed her mate’s call on
a lower key also substantiates the claim.
In his description of one of the coucal’s
calls Banfield uses the word “glucking.”
But surely friend coucal’s moonlight
barolling would have been familiar to
Leichhardt, who had wandered over the
Moreton Bay district before setting out
on his expedition?
* * * *
“Q.V.”: The big white Muscovy duck
had become a household pet, but she was
sold along with the rest; both wings
were clipped before delivery. A week
latei: a weary, footsore and pitiful-look-
ing creature staggered into the duckyard,
at the end of what must surely be a
record Muscovy-duck-walk. The buyer’s
home was five miles away. We called
the deal off.
* * * *
“Bushman”: Drover came into Alice
Springs with a big heap of dirty clothes.
Called at a friend’s house to wash them
and decided to try out the newfangled
washing-machine in the laundry and put
his clothes in for 20 minutes or so. When
he took them out they looked as though
they had been through a mincer. The
irate drover then woke up. It wasn’t a
washing-machine ; it was a potato-peeling
machine.
* * * *
“Sackville”: I was a youth assisting
an old-timer to split logs into fence-posts
with maul and wedges, when a wedge
dropped down inside the hollow of a log.
My hand was just reaching inside to
retrieve it when I caught a swift cuff
from a huge, calloused palm. “Never
put y’r hand into a log,” growled
the old bushman. “Wedges can
spring out o’ green timber as easy as
winkin’, and if your hand’s inside and
you’re on your own you can stop there
and die like the other feller did.” I’ve
often wondered who “the other feller”
was. Over the years I’ve heard the same
story told in a vague way, but nobody
seemed to know who was the man or
where the tragedy occurred. Maybe he
was like that other universally-known
unknown, the boundary-rider who
reached for the parrot’s-nest and finished
up by hacking his arm off. Still, both
tragedies could easily happen to the care-
less, even if they didn’t.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: For its strength and
size a bird has the lightest frame and
skeleton in the animal kingdom with
the possible exception of some reptiles—
a condition it achieves by having its bones
hollow. Where extra structural strength
is required the bones carry small, well-
placed struts inside the hollows. It has
a strong heart and rich blood, and it can
maintain its body-temperature in almost
any weather by a simple adjustment of
its feathers. Place a man in a snowstorm
with ample food and he’ll still freeze ; a
bird won’t as long as its food-supply
holds out.
* * * *
“Spin”: The Coolbaroo League, an
organisation run by and for W.A.’s
aborigine population, holds its own
dances both in Perth and in country
centres, has its own club, and publishes
its own newspaper—a very good publica-
tion. Now it’s planning to open a shop
in Perth to sell native-made articles and
native art-objects. The league officials,
all fine types of natives who are making
their own way in the world with the help
and encouragement of the Native Welfare
Department, reckon there’s a wealth of
native talent going to waste, particularly
in the outback, and they’ve written to
the mission-stations to see what they can
get. There should be plenty, if they can
only capture the natives’ undoubted
imagination. Not every native is an
artist, but the percentage is high enough
to meet what may be a considerable
demand. Native art is something entirely
on its own, and attractive. Our aborigines
produced fine carvings on some of their
special weapons when the reward for good
work was their own satisfaction or the
envy of their tribesmen, or when the work
“Nurse! Heal the soldering-iron, please.”
was done to propitiate or please a god.
They could still do it if the same sort of
demand is made and they’re uninfluenced
by the white man’s concept of art.
* * * *
“R.G.”: I have known stonemasons
and quarrymen take practical advantage
of water’s property of expanding as it
freezes (B. 27/7/’55). Trick was to
diamond-drill a line of holes in a rock
and fill them with water before nightfall.
Following a heavy frost the rock would
split.
* * * *
“Camel Creek”: The finger-cherry may
be eaten with impunity (B. 10/8/’55), if
you know when to eat it. I grew up in
the scrub-coimtry back of Tully (N.Q.),
where finger-cherries were plentiful. The
local blacks gave us the office: when
the cherries are covered with a fine fuzz
they must not be eaten or touched. When
without any sign of fuzz they are quite
safe. The abos. knew all about their
blinding properties.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Shifty was a poor fireman;
the drivers carried him, even though
they regularly answered “blisters” for
lost running-time due to Shifty’s lack of
steam. He was firing for old
Crusty, and their train was
heading towards the- steep
bank. Crusty rose from his
seat, lurched across the cab
and tapped Shifty on the
shoulder: “Hey! Listen ’ere!
If we stall on this bank
through not enough steam it’s
you an’ me on the ground,
an’ me with me coat orf.”
From then on the steam-
gauge rose and the train flew
over the bank with the safety-
valves roaring. Crusty eyed
Shifty and rounded-off judg-
ment: “Y’ won’t be braggin’
about drawing the biggest
overtime cheque in the depot
when y’re firin’ - for me.
Understand?” Soon the news
got around. Now Shifty has
the ultimatum delivered to
him by every driver he fires
for.
* * *
“Kelms”: Riding through
heavily - timbered country
in south Westralia during
a gale, I saw an example of
a peculiarity I’ve noticed
before about storms in these parts.
A tree not 50yds. ahead of me
lost a big branch, torn off about 70ft.
from the ground; yet where I was there
was hardly a breath of wind. These gusts
are features of our big blows, and I think
they’re the cause of some otherwise in-
explicable bush tragedies. A man not on
the lookout for it could walk or ride
into a falling branch during what he
thought was a lull in the storm.
MRS. WEBBER
(From a story told by Ernestine Hill.)
At Kyabra, near Thylungra,
Mrs. Webber’s iron will
Sent the men to herd the cattle,/
Bent the creek around the hill.
Forced the blacks to Sunday-worship,
Forced the rose from stony ground;
Now she can’t believe she’s vanquished
By the years or by the mound;
At Kyabra, near Thylungra,
There’s a mirror in the hall
That reflects her indignation
That she is not real at all.
Do not wander, Mrs. Webber,
Climb into your earthy bed.
Tall and self-willed Mrs. Webber,
Don’t you know that you are dead?
N.S.W.
PIXIE O’HARRIS.
PRESERVING OUR PAST
St. Malo is an historic and architectur-
ally attractive building set in spacious,
old-world grounds overlooking the Lane
Cove River, adjacent to Fig Tree Bridge,
Hunter’s Hill (Sydney). The recent
acquisition of St. Malo by the National
Trust of Australia provides for the pre-
servation of this charming landmark,
A non-proprietary body established
‘‘for the preservation of historic build-
ings and natural beauty,” the trust has
obtained a twenty-year lease of St. Malo.
Similar to the policies of English and
Scottish national trusts, the Trust Council
has sub-let the property, making it self-
supporting. Although the sub-tenants
intend using the building for wedding-
receptions, dinners, luncheons and after-
noon-teas, they are carefully renovating
and refurnishing in period style and,
under the agreements, St. Malo will be
periodically open for public inspection.
To assure that the cottage and its setting
will not be marred, the firm in occupancy
has at its own expense bought the adjoin-
ing Mary Reiby Cottage—another house
with a history. While his home, St.
Malo, was being built, Didlier Numa
Joubert lived in Mrs. Reiby’s cottage.
One of the earliest settlers in the dis-
trict, Mary Reiby arrived in Sydney in
1790, married Thomas Reiby in 1794,
and was widowed a few years later. Tak-
ing oyer her husband’s business, she
soon owned three stores in Sydney and
seven farms on the Hawkesbury. Reiby-
place in Sydney is named after her. On
a grant of land at Fig Tree, Mrs. Reiby
built Reiby Cottage and Fig Tree House,
the latter a sandstone structure built by
convict labor.
The Joubert brothers, Jules and Didlier
Numa, came to Australia in 1841. Chan-
cellor to the French Consul in Sydney,
an energetic member of the N.S.W.
Agricultural Society, notable for his work
in publicising Australian goods, and
active in local development of the sugar-
beet industry, Jules had a claim to versa-
tility. As well, he promoted many inter-
national exhibitions and received the
Ribbon of the Legion of Honor for his
services as N.S.W. representative to the
Paris Exhibition in 1878.
In 1847 the brothers settled in Hunter’s
Hill; Jules had bought land on the water-
front east of Fig Tree, and Didlier Numa
bought from Mrs. Reiby 200 acres of land
at Fig Tree, bounded by Mount-street
and Church-street. Skilled craftsmen
brought out from Italy set to work on
St. Malo in the 1850’s. Descendants of
these men, who also built other large
houses which were sold by Jules, still live
in the district.
Italian black and white marble tiles
were imported for the veranda-floors.
Some of the original rosewood, together
with the Italian-marble mantelpiece and
large gilt mirror, still remains in the
drawing-room of St. Malo. When Rurde-
kin House in Macquarie-street was
demolished about 1930, the carved
colufnns from the fafade were next seen
stalking the front verandas of St. Malo.
The old kitchen, separate from the
house, was built of hand-made red bricks
from Brickfield Hill; the original brick-
oven is still in position. Along the
Joubert-street frontage runs a stone wall
built from the convict-chiselled rock of
the old Commissariat stores at Circular
Quay—the convict markings are still
plainly visible.
The National Trust regards the acquisi-
tion of St. Malo a major success in its
plan for preservation of Australia’s old
buildings.
R.A.


ORC
It
111
M
t W/
mm-
Nuffield Universal
Tractor in action,
equipped with a 13-
tyne cultivator. This
is one of the many
"approved-after-test”
matched implements
available that speed
up your work . . .
make it easier.
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS?
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 13.50 x 24 rear and
6.00 x 16 front tyres, costs only
\ £1,015/18/- (Cap. city).
At this competitive price, your Nuffield tractor
includes this standard equipment: Hydraulic
lift, 3-point linkage, p.t.0., belt pulley, draw-
bar, drawbar extension, seat cushion, canvas
tractor cover, electric starter and horn, head-
light, agricultural rear light, tail and side lights,
heat gauge, hour meter, foot plates, chaff
screens and radiator shutters. (Alternative
magneto ignition can be supplied at slightly
extra cost.)
Other tyre sizes available: 11 x 36R, 6.00 x
19F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x 16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x 18F;
11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies
accordingly in price.)
Nuffield (Australia) Fty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement
Division, Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range
and “Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
□ Place X in this square if for school project.
C 7
BMC
ptt\
NT.35.32
iwffc *
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Business Rollery Ete.
SORTING-OUT INVESTMENTS
'T'HE economic situation, from
the point of view of the
sharemarket, remains a matter
for shrewd study. The urge of
the country to expand, which
nobody can deny, must not be
overlooked in assessing long-
term prospects of investments in
essential industries. But for the
present that urge is being frus-
trated by a number of factors
Which continue to stack-up with
rather depressing regularity.
Chief problem is that of costs
of production. Australia is
away behind other industrialised
countries in its man-hour output
of goods requiring a fairly high
degree of processing, and in the
circumstances the 40-hour week
is years ahead of its time. Pro-
duction-costs are now tending to
rise further following increases
in marginal rates of pay, and
there is a threat of more cost-
increases in the N.S.W. Govern-
ment proposal to unpeg the
basic wage.
Costs as well as the drop in
export prices enter into the
adverse balance -of - payments
position. Many overseas markets
have been closed to Australian
manufactures (and some land
products) by competition from
other countries which are able
to undercut our high-cost quota-
tions. And some land industries
have become overcapitalised
because of the high level of hot-
house prosperity enjoyed during
the period of food-scarcity fol-
lowing World War 11. Proper-
ties bought at 1951 levels may
not pay at present prices.
To add to the difficulties of
an already-ticklish situation, the
wool-market has opehed below
the level of last season’s closing
prices, which means that they are
down even further on last
season’s average. The position
has not yet clarified itself, and
prices may improve as the
season progresses, but for the
moment all the sharemarket can
be sure of is that prices are down
about p.c., and that the
increase in the clip will not
compensate for a price-reduc-
tion on that scale if it persists
through the season.
Wheat has already taken a
heavy fall, though the position
just now is comparatively stable.
Some other land products, and
metals, have brought us an
increased export Revenue. But
it takes a big rise in “other pro-
ducts” to make up for a small
drop in wool prices.
The Budget, though it added
nothing to the taxation burdens
of companies, did nothing to
relieve them. There was no
modification of depreciation
procedure, no attempt to cope
with capital-erosion. And there
was no rectification of the
inequity of double-taxation of
company dividends.
The money-market remains,
extremely tight. Most firms are
carrying more debtors than they
have done previously, and have
had, in fact, to assume some of
the functions of the banking-
system, without, however, re-
ceiving remuneration for it.
Interest-rates are still rising in
the competition for debenture-
and note-issue-money by finance
and industrial companies, but
there is a tendency for hire-
purchase activity to steady.
Capital-multiplication by hire-
purchase cos. is not, in any case,
likely to go on at the rate Aus-
tralia has seen over the past few
years. A little bit of arithmeti-
cal exercise will demonstrate
that.
Liquidity of the trading-banks
has worsened since the present
financial year opened. During
July there was a fall of £2B
.million in deposits and a rise of
nearly £l7 million in advances.
It has been calculated
officially that net farm income
fell by about £72 million (to
£468 million) in 1954-55. This
followed a drop of £4l million
in the preceding year. Because
of increased costs, the decline
in net farm income exceeded the
drop in value of farm output by
over £3O million. This is indeed
a disconcerting feature of our
present problems—costs rising
while export prices are falling.
The balance-sheets and p. and
1. accounts of public companies
which are now coming forward
with a rush show a variety of
results. A few losses are being
shown in industries where there
has been overproduction or
overexpansion. Sound basic
industries usually have done
well. But, on the whole, results
have not improved to the extent
that they did in 1953-54. There
has been a tendency for profits
to stabilise or react, even though
continued shortage of some
basic commodities has meant
that increased production of
those commodities has brought
a corresponding rise in earnings
from them.
In the sterling area there is
a disposition to restrict inter-
national trading. Britain is try-
ing to improve its balance-of-
payments position, and so is
Australia. Some industries will
profit by restricted imports;
others will be hurt. National
economies will not gain. Aus-
tralia is seeking an international
loan in order to maintain its
intake of capital goods so neces-
sary now to its internal develop-
“A smile, sir ?”
ment. But, whatever happens
to inflow of goods in the coun-
try during the current financial
year, the sharemarket will have
its problems in sorting-out the
favored type of investments
from the other kind.
Mining in the N.T.
The value of mineral-produc-
tion (excluding uranium) in the
Northern Territory during
1954-55 was a record at over
£1,500,000, compared with
£1,100,000 in 1953-54. Apart
from uranium, gold is the prin-
cipal mineral mined. In addi-
tion, copper, wolfram, mica and
tin are being produced.
The most interesting mining
development has been the dis-
covery of further deposits of
uranium-bearing ores at Jtum
Jungle, Adelaide River, South
Alligator River and other places.
The Atomic Energy Commis-
sion is primarily responsible for
the development of uranium-
mining, but the Northern Terri-
tory Administration provides
access-roads and other services
to facilitate prospecting. The
Administration also issues
mining-leases. The first full-
scale treatment-plant was opened
at Rum Jungle on September
17, 1954, and there is now con-
tinuous production of uranium-
oxide at the plant.
An important development of
copper-mining has occurred at
the Peko mine at Tennant Creek.
Excluding uranium, copper is
now second to gold in importance
in value of production.
Three permits to search for
oil in the Northern Territory
were granted during 1954-55.
Several other applications for oil-
permits are now under examina-
tion. It is expected that oil-
prospecting activities will be on
a much larger scale during
1955-56 than hitherto.
A new Director of Mines and
three new inspectors of mines
were appointed last year to cope
with increased activity.
Improvements are to be made
in the service given to the mining
industry, in services of mining-
inspectors, provision of assay
and laboratory facilities and the
provision of Government bat-
teries. The 1955-56 estimates
provide £24,750 for maintenance
of Government batteries and
ore-sampling and £4OOO for
purchase and treatment of tail-
ings. It is intended that the
Tennant Creek battery will be
brought up to first-class condi-
tion and put back into operation.
Access-roads and water-supplies
will be provided to encourage
the development of promising
mineral areas.
When suitable staff can be
made available the three tailings-
dumps at Tennant Creek battery-
sites will be check-bored. It will
then be possible to make arrange-
ments for the construction of
the most suitable form'of treat-
ment-plant for the recovery of
the gold from the tailings.
McPherson’s
An increase in the div. by
McPherson’s Ltd., from 11 p.c.
to 12| p.c., follows a lift in the
earnings to around 26 p.c. on
ord. capital,- allowing for em-
ployees’ shares. The co. and its
subsidiaries make tools, pumps,
nuts and bolts and engineers’
supplies, and are very solidly
entrenched in their line of busi-
ness. A new issue of ord.
shares, one for four at par, is
to be made soon, and presumably
the new dividend will be main-
tained on the increased capital.
The co. has been expanding
rapidly since the war along
sound fines.


HE HAS A
RUPTII
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARBERB
acts like a hand
•when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3u), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
HOMESTEADS-
any Plan, any Layout,
Single or Two-storey
Plan with
BOW AS
for—
★ Homesteads
★ Country
Cottages
★ Managers'
Residences
★ Overseers'
Quarters
★ Shearers and
Station
Accommoda-
tion Buildings
to your design
Bowas homesteads and country cottages
are of good appearance and are solid,
permanent structures unaffected by white
ants or dry rot.
Bowas buildings are easily erected with
the simplicity of timber frame construc-
tion—yet have the strength and durability
of steel, due to the patented Bowas steel-
wood-steel structural member of heavy
gauge steel and dressed cypress.
These members are precision cut for ease
of assembly by bolting— but all walls, both
inside and out, flooring and roofing are
nailed on as in timber frame construction .
Plan for a Bowas better-looking, sounder,
easier-to-build homestead or cottage —our
architects will design any plan, single or
two-storey, to meet your wishes.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Williams Steel-Fraim Buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qfcf.r 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE ALBERT JANES late of
Chatswood N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY JANES has filed Petition No. 2378
of 1955 for Divorce on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry King Street
Sydney by the 15th November 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor,
of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO NEVILLE GEORGE JOHN HOL-
LAND late of Frankston Victoria.—TAKE
NOTICE that VALERIE IDA HOLLAND
has commenced a suit No. 1782 of 1955
against you in the Supreme Court of New
South Wales and exercising Federal Juris-
diction and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of three
years’ desertion under Victorian law and
is asking the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion in her favour under S. 84 (1) of
the Marriage Act 1928 (Victoria). If
you wish to defend you should enter an
appearance at the office of this Court at
King Street Sydney on or before the 20th
day of October, 1955. A copy of the
Petition may be had free of charge on
application to J. B. MOFFATT & SON,
Solicitors, 104 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
» ' .■■■■—■ —w
Missing Friend
Relatives of JAMES WARD, who was
bom at Bendigo, Victoria, on August 12,
1885, are asked to communicate with
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Waipukurau, New Zealand.
Feiitti In the
Future
While I was staying at the King Ranch in
Texas I had the misfortune to jamb a finger in
the door of Mr. Bob Kleberg’s car. It was painful
for a while, but all is well now.
In any case, I had little time to think of minor
mishap, with so many interesting things to see at
this home of the famous Santa Gertrudis breed of
cattle.
I never thought, for instance, that I would
come upon a place where they conserve
prickly-pear, and even plant it, for the drought
feeding of stock.
The King Ranch is in semi-arid prairie land
down near the Gulf of Mexico. It is subject to
periodic long, dry spells. With no springs or
permanent creeks, it has an extensive system of
dams, and it pumps water from artesian wells.
So pear is precious in dry years—and this
year is one. Its fostering will be of interest td
Australia, where pear was a pest, and where 60
million acres between Maitland and Mackay were
reclaimed from it by the introduction of the
cactoblastis insect after 1925. v
Men with miniature flame-throwers bum the
spines off the large species of pear, and it is a sight
to see the cattle following in their tracks to get at
the succulent growth.
Another spectacle on the King Ranch is the
large-scale clearing of land with a huge tractor
unit, which is two Caterpillar tractors joined
mechanically together.
By this technique, hundreds of thousands of
acres are being cleared of mesquite and other bmsh
that would creep over great tracts of land if it
were left unchecked.
Now it seems to me that this has definite
possibilities for the wholesale clearing of
Australian land for settlement.
And beside that thought—what was the detail
of a mere crushed finger?
// j
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
HARD on the heels of two in-
creases in reserve ratios by
the Reserve Bank came an in-
struction to trading-banks that
all overdraft-limits must be
reviewed and reduced. Only in
exceptional circumstances can
an extension of bank-credits be
expected. The Reserve Bank has
set a reasonable term to allow
borrowers to set their houses in
order and to discourage their
entering into commitments in the
expectation that bank-managers
would be open-handed when the
bills came in. There will be
many heartburnings and anom-
alies, however, because so much
will depend on the individual
managers of the six trading-
banks. \
Already there have been what
appear to be reasonable com-
plaints by farmers in the Auck-
land area. Maoriland farmers
have always depended largely on
stock-and-station agents and
banks for finance. There is the
difficulty of financing operations
in the off-season when the cream-
cheque isn’t coming in and
development work must be
undertaken, of paying for new
stock before the new season’s
money comes in. The inevitable
chain-reaction has started. The
trading-banks are required to
increase their balances at the
Reserve Bank; they call for a
reduction in their customers’
overdrafts ; the stock-agents ask
farmers to pull their horns in,
and the farmer says it’s no use
asking him to reduce overdrafts
when he must pay for essential
work. Wait until the new season,
he says. And the many busi-
nesses that depend on the
farmer’s spending find his money
tighter.
The New Zealand farmer is
aggrieved at the moment. A
reduction in the guaranteed price
for the dairy industry will
represent an average reduction
in individual farmers’ incomes
of about £9O to £lOO, it is esti-
mated. The farming industry
claims that it has faced the
situation realistically. It recog-
nises that it can’t expect con-
tinuing high prices on overseas
markets and has accepted a
reduction in reward. The credit-
squeeze now being applied is
resented.
Other industries will feel the
pinch, particularly those which
have leaned heavily on their
banks for financing stocks and
imports. Hard-going, indeed,
will the way be for those which
can’t face up to free, competitive
trading; there are some large
firms in this category in the
clothing-manufacturing trade.
Consumer-resistance
The consumers’ price-index
shows that prices are slowly
being stabilised, and the Govern-
ment is keeping its fingers
crossed, hoping there will be no
large increase in the future.
Consumers are becoming
increasingly restive at any in-
crease in the costs of staple items.
When tea went up to 9s. a
pound a united howl by house-
wives, accompanied by limited
imports and sales by them,
forced the price down to 7s. Bd.
Tea-importers were shepherded
into the fold of price-control.
As a result of free trading by
growers on the municipal market
at Wellington, fruit and vegetable
prices were reduced locally.
Also, the Government has been
compelled, by pressure,
to review the whole question of
growers not being allowed to
have unrestricted licence to sell
on the open market. The set-up
of producers’ boards will be
amended, it is almost certain.
Apart from these direct attacks
on food prices, there are other
signs that the consumer is becom-
ing selective and careful in his
spending. He will undoubtedly
become so, and manufacturers
would be well advised to heed
the portents.
Hire-purchase
The president of the N.Z.
Retailers’ Federation recently
made a strong attack on the
Budget hire-purchase and credit-
restrictions, declaring that the
trade was up in arms over the
matter. Why weren’t we con-
sulted first? asked he. It is hard
to see that the retailers have
any substantial complaint. Cer-
tainly, many retailers sold goods
on a no-deposit basis, but these
were mainly lower-priced items.
The new restrictions on hire-
purchase are not harsh and
appear to conform, in the case
of motor-vehicles and washing-
machines and so on, to ordinary
trading practice. If the restric-
tions have, in fact, materially
affected retailers’ business then
that is an indication that control
was needed.
Retail Trade •
Retail-trading figures for the
three months ended June 30
show that turnover increased by
7 p.c., and that stocks decreased
by 4 p.c. Strangely enough,
chemists showed the biggest lift
(9 p.c.), followed by household
appliances, radios, etc. (7.2 p.c.).
This latter group sells largely
through hire-purchase, and the
figures for the present three
months will make an interesting
comparison.
A spotlight was thrown on the
activities of the much-maligned
Capital Issues Committee when
its chairman, retired banker
P. L. Porter, gave evidence
before the Royal Commission on
Monetary Affairs. Finance
Minister Watts had recently
told the committee to adopt a
tougher policy, the commission
was told. Up to the middle of
August nearly half the applica-
tions for new finance had been
turned down or deferred ; in the
first half of the year the figure
was 43 p.c. For the whole of
last year £21.4 million was
applied for and £lB million
granted. So far this year £12.8
million was wanted and nearly
FI million nlearerl
million Cieareu.
TTip mmmittpp has been
ine committee nas oeeu
placing primary and associatea
industries and most manufactur-
..-.. . , ~
ing industries high on tne
priority list. It is significant that
\ J . . , ,
the committee has been severely
restricting finance for the retail
motor-trade and hire-purchase
nf
SaieS OI Consumer gooas.
Takimr a Hiffprent view from
1 atmg a oinerent view irom
that of the Reserve Bank at
nrMpnt Mr Pnrter caid in-
present, Mr. sorter saia m
creases in bank-overdrafts were
nnlv a minnr factor in New
omy a minor lacior in pyew
Zealand’s present troubles,
Money can’t care for the sick,
he said. Big hospitals were being
built, but fiiere weren’t enough
nurses. The same thing, OI
course, could be said about fac-
. ’ , , i ,
tones and labor-shortages. The
Capital Issues Committee is
evidently taking the attitude that
it’s no use permitting unbridled
industrial expansion where
will pjhisp CFini-
lapor snorrages will cause capi
tal wastage and Where no great
addition will be made to
production.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one parson. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
giVes security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management,”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( V ice-Chairnum)
A. E. Bond
F . B. Fleming
/. R. Faviell
G. B. Kater
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officer:
M. A. Foulcher ,
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.100.18
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
nrHE demand for steel in Australia con-
tinues to run ahead of production,
and the B.H.P. group has been pro-
gressively adding to its plant-capacity at
Newcastle and Port Kembla in N.S.W.
and Whyalla (S.A.). By the end of 1956
steelmaking capacity will, since the war,
have been doubled at Port Kembla, where
greatest activity is now centred. Next
year the new steel-rolling mill at Kwinana
(W.A.) should be in operation. But the
greatest development of all has been the
completion of the wide continuous hot-
strip mill at Port Kembla—the largest
installation ever undertaken by the steel-
industry in this country. Flat-rolled steel
is the principal component of tinplate,
car-bodies, refrigerators, washing-
machines, a variety of building materials
and a host of other items.
During the past five years the B.H.P.
group has spent £s6y million on plant
and equipment. A higher rate of expendi-
ture is envisaged over the next five years.
But, the board says, the programme can’t
be carried out unless a major portion of
the cost is met from the organisation’s
own internal resources —in other words,
from ploughed-back profits. Even with
things as they are issued capital of
B.H.P. has grown to close on £3O million,
and there is million of outside in-
terests in subsidiaries.
New plant is very dear plant, and new
steel-capacity means dearer steel. There
was a lift of about 9 p.c. in steel prices
in November, 1954, and there has just
been a further rise of 5 p.c. B.H.P. finds
itself faced with rising costs of materials
and labor, with increased depreciation
and amortisation charges on costlier
plant, and bigger allocations for plant-
replacement and -expansion. Even so,
according to the co.’s calculations, Aus-
tralian basic structural steel is 39 p.c.
lower than the landed cost of duty-free
steel from the U.K.
Modernisation and extension still goes
on at Newcastle. But most development
has occurred in the big subsidiary, Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel (Port Kembla), in
which B.H.P. owns all the ords. During
the year to May 31 last chief items of
production of the group in N.S.W. and
S.A. were as follows:
Blooming
Coke, Pig-iron, Steel Ingots, Mill,
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Newcastle 790,052 646,102 969,890 879,936
Pt. Kembla 1,061,976 1,030,295 1,167,192 1,012,252
Total, 1955 1,852,028 1,857,233* 2,138,363* 1,892,188
Total, 1954 1,817,426* 2,067,615* 1,778,984
* Includes Whyalla.
For the second year in succession
ingot-steel output has exceeded 2,000,000
tons. And other output has moved
accordingly. Provided B.H.P. is able to
carry out present plans (and that will
depend partly upon the availability of
materials and manpower, as well as on
economic conditions), the steel-shortage
should be gradually overcome. But it will
not be a rapid process.
B.H.P. itself showed a profit of
£3,441,204 for the term to May 31, includ-
ing £244,214 of capital profit on sales of
shares, etc., and a 6 p.c. div. from
A. & S. But consolidated figures moved
as follows:
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earrings— 1952. 1954. 1955.
Working profit £8,132,290 £12,474,818 £13,927,358
Divs., etc. .. 371,616 507,290 681,674
Total . . £8,603,906 £12,982,108 £14,609,032
Depreciation .. 2,798,416 4,367,635 5,038,538
Provision plant
replacement .. 852,000 838,000
Taxation .. 3,092,877 3,512,243 4,009,022
Other exes. .. 325,781 " 397,197 403,603
Total exes. £6,217,074 £9,129,075 £10,289,163
Net profit .. 2,286,832 3,853,033 4,319,869
Profit, sale assets 11,397 83,897 21,245
Higher depreciation (£5,038,538, up
£670,903) and tax-provision (£4,009,022,
up £496,779) took most of the increase
(£1,626,924) in gross profit. Provision for
plant-replacement was £14,000 lower at
£838,000. The profit figure of £4,319,869
(up £466,836), with small items added,
the co. itself calculates to represent 8.3
p.c. on shareholders’ funds, compared
with 8.2 p.c. in the preceding term.
The dividend for the year on B.H.P.
ords. was lifted to 9.16 p.c., with 10 p.c.
indicated for the current term. The rate
had stuck at 8y p.c. for the previous seven
years.
All the B.H.P. subsidiary cos. are now
showing the benefits of post-war expan-
sion. Rylands Bros.’ annual capacity for
wire is now 135,000 tons a year, though
production is limited by steel shortage.
Lysaght Bros, have also expanded.
B. By-Products, Titan Manufactur-
ing and Commonwealth Steel have in-
creased their scope and output. The
numerous associated companies have
been generally busier.
The massive nature of the undertaking
is clear from the following tables:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
B.H.P. —j Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.t
££>£>£>
1950.. 17,7 77,083 12,107,414 2,293,532 9,516,265
1951.. 20,S 52,300 14,443,636 2,310,002 12,095,927
1952.. 24.! 14,196 16,786,062 2,336,221 17,134,832
1953.. 24,1 39,074 17,553,565 2,368,463 26,758,048
1954.. 24,6 ( 9,074 19,753,496 2,462,928 30,394,974
1955.. 26,1 , 8,190 22,377,798 2,496,536 33,970,747
Fij ed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Storeß, Etc. Debts. Assets.
& £> £
1950.. 22,517,069 8,838,696 2,811,249 7,627,170
1951.. 26,889,915 10,593,218 3,001,402 9,717,330
1952.. 82,407,341 14,341,154 4,590,866 9,891,940
1953.. 41,019,273 19,145,584 6,072,277 5,402,066
1954.. 46,905,758 20,429,614 5,726,316 4,618,784
1955.. 51,642,019 21,503,971 6,453,341 6,943,940
* Including proportion reserves, t Includes tax
provision.
The organisation leant a little more on
outside finance last year, but, in addition,
put out an extra 4,993,815 new
shares in October, 1954, at a premium of
10s. a share. At balance-day these shares
were paid to 6s. Bd., and 3s. 4d. of the
premium had also been met.
These contribs., with a liability amount-
ing to 20s. a share in calls and premium,
sold at 20s. 6d. last week. The fully-
paids are at 425. 3d., at which figure the
yield is 4.7 p.c. on the new 10 p.c. div.
basis.
There has been very little in B.H.P. as
an investment for shareholders over the
past 16 years. During the war B.H.P.
supplied the Government with steel at
cost price, and since then the cost of
expansion and maintenance has been
extraordinarily heavy. If the announced
policy of financing further heavy expan-
sion mainly out of internal funds is
adhered to, benefits to investors in the
shape of new issues or increased distribu-
tions should be moderate until the new
capital expenditure really starts to pay-
off.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
nrHE year would have been a better
one for Melbourne Steam but for the
effect over the second half of the term
of increased wages and higher costs
generally, which, according to chairman
D. York Syme, made it difficult for the
company’s ships to show a reasonable
profit. Active competition from rail,
road and air transport, he adds, would
make it hard for the co. to attempt to
recover its position by an increase in
freight-rates.
The company’s is one of the smaller
fleets operating on the Australian coast;
it includes the passenger-vessel Duntroon,
three cargo-ships and a number of smaller
vessels. As well as its shipping'interests
the co. is agent for a number of steve-
doring cos., air- and shipping-lines, etc.,
and three engineering subsidiaries located
at Williamstown (Vic.), Sydney and
Fremantle also contribute to earnings.
Reflecting the adverse trend of costs,
the group’s profit for the 1955 term fell
£3405 to £58,186, after provision of
£50,951 for depreciation (£49,211 in
1954):
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES.
—Dividends ——, Re- Re-
June Profit. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. tained. serves.
SO, £ £ £ £ £
7$ p.c.
1951 .. 32,651 1560 25,500 5,591 306,187
Profit sale Coolana, etc., £14,660 320,847
8 p.c.
1952 .. 37,568 1660 27,200 8,808 329,655
Net reductions reserves, £14,527 .. 815,128
1953 .. 47,928 1560 27,200 19,168 334,296
Net reductions reserves, £7631 .. 326,665
9 p.c.
1954 .. 61,591 1560 30,600 29,431 356,096
Tax overprovided, £7500 .. .. 363,596
To provision for overhauls, £12,500 351,096
Unexplained reduction, £264 .. 350,832
1955 .. 68,186 1560 30,600 26,026 376,858
Expressed as a percentage of the £340,000
of ordinary capital, the profit, less the
pref. div., was equal to 16.6 p.c. as against
17.6 p.c. 1954, 13.6 p.c. 1953, 10.5 p.c.
1952 and 9.1 p.c. 1951. On both classes
of capital and reserves combined the
respective showings were 7.8 p.c., 8.5 p.c.,
6.8 p.c., 5.4 p.c. and 4.8 p.c. As inter-
lined in the table, the co. wrote-back
£7500 surplus tax-provision to reserves,
which were also drawn on for £12,500
to strengthen the provision for overhauls,
the cost of which is increasing.
Not less a problem is that of tonnage-
replacement. With present cost-levels
many times those of twenty to thirty
years ago, when most of the existing fleet
was built, there is, according to chairman
Syme, no indication of an easy solution.
In the balance-sheet the co.’s fleet is
shown at cost at £1,099,039. Other plant
and freehold property bring fixed assets
to £1,357,334, against which is set total
depreciation of £833,705. There are also
reserves for special renewals and replace-
ments (£147,905) and insurance (£79,981),
and an omnibus entry (£233,502) which
covers provision for overhauls, taxation
and staff-bonus:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1£54. 1955.
Pref £26,000 £26,000 £26,000
Ord 340,000 340,000 340,000
Reserves .. .. 334,296 356,096 376,858
Creditors, etc. .. 442,059 496,915 464,343
Sundry provisions 219,576 215,874 233,502
Final divs. .. 16,080 IT7TSO 17,780
£1,378,011 £1,452,665 £1,458,483
Ships, freeholds,
etc 554,200 511,457 623,629
Shares .. .. 57,654 68,326 69,788
Stocks .. .. 86,710 85,530 150,239
Debtors .. .. 432,926 507,940 429,355
Cash, bonds .. 246,177 289,154 294,936
Intangibles .. 344 258 636
£1,378,011 £1,452,665 £1,458,483
Net tangible support for the 26,000 £1
prefs. is £2B 11s. sd. and for the 340,000
ords. 425. 2d. On latest quotations of
225. 6d. the prefs. and 30s. 3d. the ords.
the yield is respectively 5.3 p.c. and 5.9
p.c.
Swan Portland Cement, Ltd.(W.A.)
REATLY increased kiln-capacity and
buoyant demand from within the
building-industry have produced a
quite spectacular rise in the profits
of this West Australian com-
pany, although it appears as though
for the immediate future the period of
fast growth noted will give way to one
of consolidation of gains made.
For the year to June 30 last, after pro-
viding an extra £14,956 depreciation
(£100,618) and an undisclosed amount for
taxation, there was an improvement of
£22,889 on the net £89,458 earned in
1954:
Re- Re-
June Profit. —Dividend N tained. serves.
30 £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £748 .. .. 76,206
1951.. 30,117 Hi p.c. = 19,545 10,572 86,778
Share-premiums, £64,506 .. .. 151,284
Profit sale assets, £756 .. .. 152,040
1952.. 22,434 lli p.c. = 23,617 150,857
Share-premiums, £22,362 .. .. 173,219
Loss sale assets, £26 .. .. .. 173,193
1953.. 52,462 12$ p.c. = 40,720 11,742 184,935
Profit sale assets, £lB5 .. .. 185,120
1954.. 89,458 15 p.c. = 52,120 37,338 222,458
Profit sale assets, £534 .. .. 222,992
1955. .112,347 17$ p.c. = 60,808 51,539 274,531
The £112,347 of profit was equivalent to
32.3 p.c. on paid capital of £347,474,
compared with 25.7 p.c. in 1954, 16.1 p.c.
1953, 10.6 p.c. 1952 and 17.3 p.c. in
1951. Dividends have been stepped up
from lli p.c. to 17i p.c. in 1955, although
a 50 p.c. premium charged on the co.’s
one-for-one issue in 1951 makes the
actual return to shareholders less attrac-
tive. j
Since the co. oegan its expansion pro-
gramme six years ago sales of cement
have risen in the following manner:
~ Tons. Tons.
1950 .. .. 61,870 1953 .. .. *97,761
1951 .. .. 70,864 1954 .. .. 124,378
1952 .. .. 75,138 1955 .. .. 140,085
* Production figure.
Last year’s figure was only about 20,000
tons below plant-capacity.
The chairman says that when improve-
ments to plant and materials-handling are
completed this term, and unless there are
offsetting increases in materials, fuel or
labor costs, the co. will be in a position
to reduce the price of its product. Such
a move would be well-timed at present
when there are indications that the State’s
cement-making capacity will soon be
well in excess of its rate of consumption.
The balance-sheet discloses a comfort-
able financial position. Plant has been
written-down heavily, and cement stocks
have remained fairly stable, indicating
that sales have not fallen behind pro-
duction. The rather less-liquid position
this term is explained by the investment
in company debentures, which, including
accrued interest, are in at £151,247:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £347,474 £347,474 £347,474
Reserves . . .. 184,936 222,458 274,531
Creditors .. .. 88,273 68,378 108,513
Tax provision .. .. 59,869 77,489 113,877
Final divs 24,431 34,747 34,747
£704,982 £750,546 £879,142
Land, buildings, plant 430,806 395,088 414,070
Debentures .. .. 151,247
Stocks 131,980 122,024 126,930
Debtors . . .. 117,388 139,386 140,472
Cash, etc 24,808 94,048 47,423
£704,982 £750,546 £879,142
Taking a cautious view of the position
the market prices the co.’s £1 shares at
around 295. 9d. (31s. a year ago) to
return 10.1 p.c. Net tangible cover is
355. lOd.
Gold in the Solomons
TN The Bulletin of April 20, 1955, a
-*■ revival of interest in gold-prospecting
on the island of Guadalcanal, in the
British Solomon Islands, was discussed.
The Western Pacific Commissioner at
Honiara had announced the discovery
of gold-lodes at Gold Ridge, and said the
lodes were believed to be important.
They were considered to be the source of
concentrations of alluvial gold in the
Tsarivonga, Sorvohio and Metapona
Rivers on the northern side of the central
mountains of Guadalcanal, and were
described as a tricky type of deposit, with
surface indications resembling those of
the Fiji goldfields.
As The Bulletin pointed out, fre-
quent attempts have been made over the
past 25 years to find the “mother lode”
in this area. Alluvial gold in the rivers
has been the lure.
But there has been a succession of
disappointments. The Prattens and T. R.
Victor are among those who looked


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers ot Classifiers,
Water Eilters, Steam Valves,
etc.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States.
Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
ON
%
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General insurance
Directors:
SIR VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE.
A. C. MAITLAND,
Managing Director.
N. E. MANIQN.
Manager.
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
)
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Choose the MODEL for your JOB from
THE BIGGEST LIGHTWEIGHT
LINE-fiP/ft9R IN AUSTRALIA
(above) A.R-112, lIS' w.b., 12 ewt. Panel Van
(below) AR-120,127' w.b., 20 cwt. with tray body
and drop side*
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria!
District Sales Offices in all Capital
Cities.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
Now is the time to choose your new
truck from the world’s best truck in-
vestments—lnternational trucks. Every
truck in the famous International
family has all the heavy-duty engin-
eered features and long-life perform-
ance that sets International ahead of
every make. Compare each model for
value feature by feature then you
must buy International.
If you're a tradesman, a carrier, con-
tractor, builder, or farmer or grazier—
there’s an ‘all-truck’ lightweight Inter-
national with just the right capacity
and stamina for your job. See your
dealer NOWI
INTERNATIONAL truck features include:
if 100 max. H.P. engine for heavy loads. 3-speed
transmission for more usable power, if Proven duo-servo
brakes for positive safety, if Heavy-duty chassis design with
straight frames. if Natural angle steering ensures comfort—
lessens fatigue, if Comfo-vision cab—room to spare for three
big men —wide angle vision, if Low-loading for ease of
transfer of loads, if Long semi-elliptic springs for heavy
loads... smooth riding, if Nation-wide dealer organization
for competent service, if International trucks are Aust-
ralian-made —ensures full supply of ports.
*1
as
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
...THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
the area over before World
War 11.
An official announcement just
to hand from the U.K. Infor-
mation Office in Sydney says
that, following an inspection by
the Acting High Commissioner
for the West Pacific (R. J. Min-
nitt) and the senior geologist for
the area (J. C. Gover) of the
Gold Ridge goldfield in the
Guadalcanal mountains, a new
gold-bearing orebody has been
discovered in the south of the
field near the 2000 ft.-contour on
the ridge-crest. Samples have
been taken, but no assays are
yet available, and the extent of
the body is not known. Explora-
tion by means of tunnelling and
deep costeans is being carried
out by the Balasuna Syndicate,
and it is likely to be some time
before details will be available.
This is the fourth gold-bearing
body discovered this year by the
geological survey on Gold
Ridge.
The recent fortnight’s exam-
ination was made in the light of
the assays available from the
routine samples taken in March.
The area of Gold Ridge is a
large one, measuring two miles
by a mile, and it hasn’t been
possible with the personnel avail-
able to explore further the Tino-
meat lode in the north of the
field, where the sparse assay data
indicate lower-grade material
than was expected.
Similarly, the southernmost
lode, which had been explored by
two tunnels, has been shown
to be too limited in size and
low in value to be of immediate
interest. No work is being done
on these two areas at the present
time, although both areas could
be of interest to any company
established on Gold Ridge in the
future.
All resources are being con-
centrated on the new discovery
and on the lode in the centre of
the field at Kuper’s Creek.
The Kuper’s Creek orebody,
thought at first to be only 4ft.
wide, is at least 16ft. wide and
may be much wider, says the
report from Honiara. Neither
face of the crosscut has emerged
from the lode, which has so far
been opened up across its width
for 20ft. horizontally. The true
width will not be known until
this development - work is
finished.
Assays from this orebody are
now available from a 20ft. drive
along the length of the body and
over a true width of about 13ft.
A possible value of foz. to the
long ton is indicated, although
this includes two very low 60in.
assays of only ldwt. and I.24dwt.
Omission of these two low values
raises the grade of the ore to
above an ounce to the ton.
Both these places have been
check-sampled by the senior
geologist and assays are awaited ;
the low values are thought to be
erratics in the light of near-by
assays, which are much higher.
In addition, the assays include
one in excess of 2oz. and one in
excess of 2|oz. to the ton. These
are not exceptional, as there are
patches in the veins which are
richly studded with gold; they
have been included.
The sampling analysis is of
considerable interest in the light
of the recent examination, and
the much greater width of the
orebody is intriguing.
A light portable diamond-drill
unit has been ordered from
Canada, and it is proposed that
the geological survey will carry
out a scout-drilling programme
in all gold-bearing areas on Gold
Ridge. Owing to a considerable
depth of weathering products,
surface-prospecting is difficult,
and it has been decided that drill-
ing is the only, efficient way to
investigate the field.
Gold Ridge has been aban-
doned for many years, and it
has been necessary for file Bala-
suna Syndicate, which has taken
over, to reopen communications
with the existing road-system on
the coastal plains several miles
to the northward. From the Tin-
shula roadhead, near the foot-
hills, a foot-track has been
cleared as far as Gold Ridge.
For the first part the track fol-
lows gently-rising grassy hills
and thereafter the jungle-covered
ridges. No attempt has been
made yet to build a motor-road.
Farmer’s
A slackening of speculative
interest has brought about a
drop in the shares of Farmer
and Co., Ltd., Sydney, to 91s.
They had touched £6 earlier.
Itself the subject of takeover
speculation for some time past,
Farmer’s arranged a few weeks
ago to take over all the shares in
Way Trust Pty., Ltd. (owning
the freehold), and E. Way and
Co. Pty., Ltd. (conducting the
retail business). The transaction
will give Farmer’s an additional
frontage of 71ft. to Pitt-street
in addition to the 170-odd feet
already held. Farmer’s building
then runs right round the
Market-street frontage into
George-street, where the frontage
is about the same as in Pitt-street
prior to the Way acquisition.
The business of Way’s will be
carried on for the present. Cost
to Farmer’s will be over £600,000,
and it will be paid in cash. No
share-issue by Farmer’s is con-
templated.
Farmer’s present building-pile,
probably the choicest retail-site
in Sydney, was in the books last
year at £1,378,168. Paid capital
is a round million, of which
only £400,000 is in ordinary
shares. Capital is predominately
preference—£2oo,ooo 6 p.c. first
and £400,000 7 p.c. second. This
unusual capital-gearing has
helped the co. to show extra-
ordinarily high returns on ord.
capital in recent years—6s p.c.
in the 1953-54 term, when the
ord. div. was 15 p.c. Net
tangible assets, on conservative
book-values, then amounted to
over £5 per ord. share. Addi-
tional benefits should accrue to
shareholders before long.


Womeu’s Letters
SYDNEY
It has been a week of varied interests
and activities. Spring sidled in with a
smile, and the school-holidays brought
thousands of twittering youngsters into
the city, so the atmosphere was lively
enough. Two of the films put on for
the children are “The Wizard of Oz” and
an ancient Charlie Chaplin short, which
seems to indicate that not enough films
for the young are being made today.
Fashion-note among the little girls is the
grey flannel jacket with pleated skirt and
collar and cuffs of red tartan —very
attractive.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Sydney Stock Exchange Club’s
annual dinner-dance, held at the Aus-
tralia’s Rainbow Room, and this year
organised entirely by the men’s commit-
tee, was a bright and particularly well-
dressed function. Club-president B. B.
O’Connor, with Mrs. O’Connor (whose
dress was of .champagne taffeta with a
small black chenille spot), entertained a
large party. Stock Exchange chairman
Ralph King was present with Mrs. King,
whose attractive dress of floral chiffon
had a soft pink drape.
Quite a number of ballerinas were
worn, a very pretty one being Mrs. A. H.
Urquhart’s navy nylon-net with its white
guipure-lace top. Others present included
Mr. and Mrs. L. P. Plasto, Mr. and Mrs.
L. A. McFadyen, Mr. and Mrs. Pat Levy
and Mr. and Mrs. Paddy Russell (she
was formerly Rada Penfold Hyland and
is at present on a short visit to Sydney
from London).
☆ ☆ ☆
The Red, White and Blue Ball, run
by the junior committee of the joint
Empire Societies, was pretty and spring-
like. The ballroom at the Wentworth
was decorated airily with red and white
blossom and blue delphiniums, and every
table had a centrepiece of daffodils.
There were about 200 young people
present at this annual get-together of
friends from three different societies.
Judy Berckelman, who was accompanied
by Graham Martin, wore a bouffant
dress of pearl-pink nylon-net with a
faille sash. Helen Burt’s midnight-blue
organza had tiny seed-pearls embroider-
ing the bodice; her partner was Rick
Walker. Janett Wall, accompanied by
Dick Smidlin, wore pink-and-white
nylon-net with white guipure-lace medal-
lions. Jann McDonell, who was escorted
by John Reid, topped a black net
ballerina sprinkled with red sequins with
a black velvet stole lined with white fur.
J ☆ ☆ ☆'
The exhibition of the Handweavers
and Spinners’ Guild of Australia was
opened by Sir Frank Berryman at
C.E.N.E.F. on Saturday and drew much
interest, visitors coming from as far
afield as Tasmania (Miss Dunbabin came
over specially), Brisbane (Mrs. L. B.
Lambert and Miss Avis Wood) and Mel-
bourne. Many types of loom are shown,
from the primitive broomstick to the
elaborate 16-shaft type, and several
spinning-wheels, including two Nor-
wegian wheels and a tiny antique. There
is an interesting display of work done
by mental-patients, and some curiosities
such as cloths made of typewriter-
ribbon, or of bandages and a small rug
made from old stockings. Several men
have pieces on display, including the
president, Professor Priestley, whose
tapestry firescreen is most attractive.
New Australians are represented by some
beautiful work, including Mrs. Erica
Semler’s colorful pair of curtains and
handwoven dress. Today (Wednesday)
is the final day of the exhibition.
☆ ☆ ☆
A beautiful wedding during the week
was that of Ruth Moore, youngest
daughter of the Liberal party’s president,
Mr. Lyle H. Moore, and the late Mrs.
Phyllis Moore, to George Baur, who is
the only son of Mr. and Mrs. Norbert
Baur, of Gordon. The bride’s dress of
stiff, delustred satin featured a very full
skirt with a short-sleeved jacket finely
pin-tucked and sewn with crystal beads.
The two matrons-of-honor, Mrs. Derek
Webster (Guyra) and Mrs. Donald
Gordon (Strathfield), with the brides-
maid, Rosemary Baur, wore somewhat
similar dresses of delustred satin in shades
of rose-pink and cyclamen. After the
wedding at the Congregational Church,
Killara, a reception was held at the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron’s premises there,
Mr. and Mrs. Moore welcoming 140
guests.
☆ ☆ ☆
“That little added human touch”
which voluntary organisations give to
welfare-work was referred to by Mrs.
W. H. Cullen, president of the Country
Women’s Association, when speaking at
the 55th annual meeting of the District
Nursing Association during the week.
The district nurses last year made a
record number of visits to the sick in their
own homes throughout the metropolitan
area—lol,3Bl visits in all—and brought,
according to many who have received
their care, not only skilled attention but
friendliness and relief from loneliness
also. Started 55 years ago by social-
workers attached to St. James’s Church,
King-street, the association is today
classed as a public hospital of 100 beds,
and is subsidised by the Government. The
chairman of the board, Miss Elizabeth
Teece, presided at the annual meeting and
later entertained friends of the associa-
tion at afternoon-tea at the nurses’ home.
Mrs. Cecil Morgan will be matron-of-
honor at the Lady Mayoress’s Ball, to be
held at the Town Hall on September 30,
when 16 debutantes, escorted by Air-
Force cadets, will be presented to the
Governor, Sir John Northcott. Photo by
Dayne.
The Y.W.C.A. is organising, as a
climax to its world centenary-year, an
International Festival of Christmas, the
first of its kind ever to be held. National
groups will take part in a display of
Christmas decorations and demonstra-
tions of national customs; there will be
a gallery of illuminated “stained-glass”
windows; artists, photographers and
song-writers will present work on the
theme of Christmas (there are competi-
tions in these three sections); the India
League will be represented by the
“festival of lights”; and handcrafts of
the Australian aborigine will be on dis-
play. Organiser of the festival is Miss
Joyce Trickett; chairman of the com-
mittee, which had its first meeting on
Thursday, is Sir Bertram Stevens.
☆ ☆ ☆
Speaking of Christmas . . . there are
some colorful and attractive cards already
for sale at the United Nations office in
Bligh-street. They depict children of all
lands and are painted in the gay modem
manner. They cost about Is. each, and
every box that is sold helps the little
ones under the care of Unicef, so they
foster the spirit of Christmas in more
ways than one.
* ☆ *
Two fashion-shows to take place
shortly:
“Fashion Forecast,” at the Trocadero
on Thursday, September 15, will com-
bine a musicale, a mannequin-parade
and afternoon-tea, all in aid of St.
Joseph’s Children’s Home, Croydon,
where children from two to seven years
of age are cared for.
Red Cross will benefit from the
“Corroboree in Color” at the home of
Lady Fairfax, Double Bay, on Saturday,
September 10, when Frank Mitchell will
present his spring fashions and Gladys
Moncrieff will officially open the show.
MELBOURNE
This Letter offers warmest congratu-
lations to Mrs. Frank Selleck, who is
again Lady Mayoress for the next 12
months. Councillor Selleck’s re-election
as Lord Mayor was celebrated with a
family dinner-party at Menzies’, attended
by their son Bruce and his fiancde
Denise French, their son-in-law and
daughter (Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson),
Mr. and Mrs. W. Tolson and Mr. and
Mrs. E. A. French.
☆ ☆ ☆
The theatre-coat and hat seem to have
displaced in popularity more formal
evening-wear, judging by the number
seen at the performance of “Measure for
Measure” at Her Majesty’s. Lillian
Wightman wore a short, full theatre-coat
of black velvet with facings from the
neckline to hem of silver-fox fur. Mrs.
Richard Linton’s was of old-gold satin.
Mrs. Frank Tait,* who draped a very full
stole of ice-blue faille over her black
frock, had as guests U.S. Consul-General
Gerald Warner and Mrs. Warner, and
U.S. Consul Givon Parsons and Mrs.
Parsons. The attractive theatre-hat worn
by Mrs. L. R. Buxton with her black
paper-taffeta ballerina frock was small
and close-fitting, of black silk-straw with
a straw-mount. Her daughter, Mrs. Ross
Batten, also chose a short, full black
taffeta frock.
Anne Curtis wore a ballerina frock
of quilted ice-blue satin. Mrs. A. G.
Silk’s short full black taffeta frock had
the skirt embroidered with clusters of
gold and colored sequins. The pattern
of Mrs. Ada Colman’s black guipure-
lace sheath-frock was outlined with jet
beads. Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn wore
pastel-pink Chantilly-lace, Mrs. Alan
Scott grey shot-taffeta.
☆ ☆ ☆
The engagement has been announced
of Judith, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs, J. U. Leask, of Camberwell, to
Capt. Michael Reyne, Royal Marines.
The only son of Rear-Admiral Sir Cecil
and Lady Reyne of Alverstoke, Hamp-
shire, he is aide-de-camp to the Gover-
nor, Sir Dallas Brooks; before that he
was aide-de-camp to the Governor of
Malta. Judith, an Arts graduate of Mel-
bourne University, returned a few months
ago from a three-years’ stay in Europe,
during which time she worked at the
Australian Embassy in Paris.
Over and above her official duties as
the wife of the Premier, Mrs. Henry
Bolte leads a busy life. She is a member
of the Girl Guides' State Executive and
is a District Commissioner, as well as
being president of the Red Cross branch
at Meredith, where she and her husband
have a grazing property. Mrs. Bolte,
who while Parliament is in session
occupies her Queen’s-road flat, is always
in strong demand as a guest-speaker.
John Warlow photo.
The ballroom at Greenknowe, St.
George’s-road, Toorak, will be the setting
for a mannequin-parade on September 16,
at which Le Louvre will show fashions
specially flown out from Paris, whilst
hats will be from the Sydney salon of
Henrietta Lamotte. Lady Knox is presi-
dent of the organising-committee, with
Mrs. James Buchanan in the chair.
Members of the committee include Mrs.
D. J. S. Mackinnon, Lady Hyde, Mrs.
J. S. Bloomfield, Lady Burston and Lady
Clarke. Proceeds will go to the Univer-
sity centenary appeal: Tickets at two-
guineas each may be obtained from
Mrs. Ronald Nott, 63 Lansell-road,
Toorak (BJ 4961), and Miss Gillian Pain,
70 Avoca-street, South Yarra (BM 1392).
Parade begins at 5.30, when cocktails
will be served.
☆ ☆ ☆
The impact of a garrulous society-
woman, her husband and daughter on
the other guests at a snowbound hotel is
the theme of N. C. Hunter’s play “Waters
of the Moon,” at the Arrow Theatre.
Producer Irene Mitchell’s team of talented
amateurs do quite well in it.
Action is rather subdued until, under
the stimulus of champagne at a New Year
party, the guests become animated—so
does the play. Julie Cotton is admirable
as the chattering dame, and Dor Summers
handles the role of the hotelkeeper’s
daughter with aplomb. Murielle Hearne’s
Mrs. Whyte is a keen portrayal of one
of the new-poor, who sheds her cloak of
dignified self-pity when she swallows
sufficient grog.
Gabriel Baraker as the remote Austrian
refugee, Kevin Colebrook as a retired
Army officer living on past achievements,
and Albert McPherson as the son-of-the-
house whose life is dominated by the
weakness of his chest, contribute well to
the character-drawing.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Max Dietrich, chairman of the
house-committee, gave a luncheon-party
to celebrate the opening of the new
restaurant at the English Speaking
Union’s residence in Toorak-road.
Among the guests were Mrs. Gerald
Bacon, Mrs. W. J. Wark, Mrs. Ann
Holter, Mrs. L. C. Lowrey, Mrs. Sydney
Smith and Miss Margot Seward.
☆ ☆ *
President of the Australian-American
Association Sir John Latham and the
executive committee plan to acquire a
building wherein the association’s func-
tions can be held. The women’s group of
the A.-A.A. is also helping with fund-
raising efforts. Mrs. Ada Colman is the
group-leader, and Mrs. Frank Callahan,
a charming American, is chairman for
all meetings. In the group are Mrs. T.
Spensley (the association’s public-rela-
tions officer), Mrs. Cyril Cox, Mrs.
J. M. B. Connor, Mrs. E. Cowell, Mrs.
W. L. Cook, Miss C. Coulter, Miss F.
Coombs and Miss J. M. Cox. First func-
tion will be a bridge-party on September
27 at Mrs. Cook’s home in Kensington-
road, South Yarra.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted at the V.A.T.C. meeting at
Caulfield: the black suit, ermine jacket
and green cloche of Mrs. Robinson, wife
of the club’s chairman; Lady Clarke’s
cloche of tangerine melusine; the Lady
Mayoress’s coat of Ming-blue mohair-
tweed and little feather-cap in the same
toning; Mrs. W. K. Burnside’s velvet
pillbox-hat trimmed with pearls; Mrs.
Geoffrey Tolson’s pale-beige cloth coat
worn with a deeper-beige straw cloche;
the collar of silver-beaver fur on the
mole-brown cloth coat worn by Mrs.
J. A. Anderson ; Mrs. L. R. Buxton’s coat
in deep-rose wool, with its long revers
of civet-cat; Mrs. Alfred Fowler’s off-
white wool coat worn with a flat platter-
hat of black velvet.
☆ ☆ ☆
A lovely bouquet of spring flowers
was presented to Katharine Hepburn
when, with Robert Helpmann, she was
guest-of-honor at a reception at the
Civic Centre. The Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Frank
Selleck) were host and hostess. Miss
Hepburn’s slim frock of charcoal
shantung had a high collar and elbow-
length sleeves. A red satin bow was
caught in her upswept hairdo. Blue
velvet flowers were featured in the mist-
blue velvet hat worn by Mrs. Selleck.
* ☆ ☆
To mark their appreciation of the work
done by him on their behalf, members
of Melbourne’s Greek community,
headed by Basil Logus, gave a late-after-
noon party at the Delphic to Eugene
Gorman, Q.C., who has resigned after
several years as Consular representative
for Greece. Guests included Sir Horace
Robertson, the Lord and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. and Mrs. Selleck) and Cr. Bernard
Evans. Mr. Gorman was given a silver
cigarette-box from Greek residents, and
a Bible from the chief priest of the Greek
Orthodox Church. At the party Captain
Browning, of the Victorian Division of
Red Cross, presented the Insignia of
Greek Red Cross (for work done for
Greece during the war, and for assistance
to Greek migrants) to Mrs. Basil Logus,
Mrs. A. Vrachnas, Mrs. Kosmos, Mrs.
Milly Lucas, Miss A. Ragos and Mr.
Chris Pappas.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country* !
EXCELLENT CLIMATE ;
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
DUPLICATOR
Hot all the finest features
ci high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines al only a trac-
tion ol their cost The
“National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
A m/Ir until til k iBU/g&j Km
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY ANDjJUUSBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. v. Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement* of claims
Directora: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairmans F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON,
'Phone: BW 8881.
Managing Director.
P. BUBDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends
WOULD BILL E. RODDA, or any person
knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with ROY SCHILLING & CO.,
Solicitors, 379 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria 1
TO RONALD RAYMOND POWELL for-
merly of Geelong Gaol Geelong Labourer
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ALISON JOYCE
POWELL (otherwise VICKERS) has in-
stituted proceedings against you for a
Declaration of Nullity of Marriage and
unless you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Deputy Prothonotary at
Ballarat Victoria within Twenty-one days
of the Bth September 1965 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs. —W. H.
HEINZ & GORDON, 22 Lydiard Street
South, Ballarat, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OFNEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BARRY JOHN LINCOLN ANDREWS
late of “Warrawuna” Station Bourke.—
TAKE NOTICE that CATHERINE
MURIEL ANDREWS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1742 of 1965 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 14th day of November 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. DUDLEY WEST
GARTH & CO., Solicitors, of 369 George
Street, Sydney.—J. D. DOUGHAN.
Registrar.
inmmi te-ttieSAVoy"'
iMeWA
&
m
&
the
But
"CARRINGTON"
....at KATOOMBAI
Comparable with anything in the world .
* LUXURIOUS
24-HOUR ROOM SERVICE
Day or night at any hoar an
efficient staff looks after
your smallest needs.
laptiOM 3JUB3S
lejunow an|g o
o|6Ul||3
pyiapuoM •
ipiwma ©
m ©
S|UU9I •
SupUBQ •
INS NJBA9I3 •
}B9fl l BJ l U9 3 •
jaJot{
pAiaxa s,9M9m
nailv Holiday or Weekend tariff available. Individual
vnnmq from 13 giis. weekly. PHONE OR WRITE NOW
FOR FULL DETAILS WITHOUT OBLIGATION.
CARRIHGTON HOTEL
Phone Katoomba 1 (One)
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Mattiwilda Dobbs
Mattiwilda Dobbs became the
most discussed star of Covent
Garden in recent times after her
appearances in two lavish pro-
ductions —“Le Coq d’Or” and
“Tales of Hoffmann”—and it
was from these operas that she
chose arias to present with
the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra. Perhaps because
she lacked the exotic Sainthill
costuming and setting, her
“Hymn to the Sun” sparkled a
little less brightly, but the encore
demanded and given to her
singing of Olympia’s aria was
merited by her flawless vocal
characterisation of the mechan-
ical doll able to perform inter-
minable coloratura fireworks on
the adequate turn of a key.
Hearing the Queensland Sym-
phony after two years’ absence,
the present writer was struck
by the improvement in its
quality, and, if several of the
“Pictures at an Exhibition” it
presented on this occasion were
still only studio sketches, the
vast mass of sound that Joseph
Post drew from the orchestra
in the closing section of the
work was exciting by any
standard.
For all her accomplishment as
a coloratura singer in a group
of Mozart arias and an excerpt
from “Lucia,” and for all her
promise as a lieder-singer in a
Schubert group, it was with four
Milhaud settings of Ronsard
and two “conversations” from
Menotti’s one-acter, “The Tele-
phone,” that Mattiwilda Dobbs
captivated her Brisbane recital
audience.
Although she brought well-
nigh perfect technique to the
coloratura numbers, it seemed
that her whole personality was
attracted to the modern works,
and, however slight the Menotti
may appear to be musically, she
showed how remarkably effec-
tive it can be when given
sympathetic performance.
Her concluding group of
Negro spirituals did nothing to
lower the standards set in Aus-
tralia by Todd Duncan, William
Warfield and Dorothy Maynor.
y.v.
* * *
Hans Hotter
A gigantic fellow of athletic
build, the German baritone
revealed himself at his Sydney
recital as an admirable artist. His
voice, produced with facility and
by strictly orthodox method, is
an organ of tremendous power
and, even under the most intense
pressure, its splendid quality is
unimpaired.
Hotter had occasion to call
upon these great reserves of
strength in the operatic excerpts,
and he made it plain that his true
forte is the dramatic-baritone
role in opera. His singing of the
“Credo” from Verdi’s “Otello”
was electrifying as, in whipcrack
staccato phrases, he expounded
with zest the cynicism of lago’s
twisted creed. In “The Wounded
Spirit” from “Simon Boccanegra”
the anguish of a grief-stricken
father was projected with moving
power and the attacks on high
notes —one of the most difficult
points of a singer’s art were
confidently hit in mid-note. He
was forced to the limit of his
high register in the aria, “Vedro
Mentr’io Sospiro,” from “The
Marriage of Figaro”—Mozartian
singing of sparkling worth.
In the field of the lieder Hotter
was hardly less convincing. He
used the half-voice most
effectively in Schubert’s “Wan-
derer” and “Greeting,” and even
when his voice died away almost
to a whisper it still carried well.
Brahms’s “In Summer Fields”
and “Love-Song” and Hugo
Wolf’s “Holy Island” were
interpretations of rare sensitivity.
Pergolisi’s “Nina” was a fine ex-
position of legato singing.
Three negro spirituals and an
attractive Appalachian folksong
completed a richly-varied offer-
ing.
Henri Penn accompanied with
his customary unobtrusiveness
and discretion.
♦s ► ♦> ♦>
“To sea”
Any production of “Tosca”
depends largely on the role of
Baron Scarpia, the Police Chief,
and, in the Italian Opera Com-
pany’s production at Sydney
Empire, John Shaw was an out-
standing success as that ruthless
arch-hypocrite. In the best act-
ing of the season, and using his
powerful baritone with admir-
able judgment, he played-down
the usually-emphasised sinister
aspect of the part and put the
accent most effectively on the
life-and-death power which
Scarpia wields.
Elisabetta Barbato, in tbe
title-role, managed the big aria,
“Vissi d’Arte,” with plenty of
controlled volume and a deal of
pathos, but her stiff, jerky stage-
movements are a big handicap.
Umberto Borso, as Cavara-
dossi, mollified his jealous Tosca
adroitly enough, and he made
such a good job of the opera’s
best-known aria, “E Lucevan le
Stelle,” that he had to repeat it
—the first such tribute to
any singer during the season.
The brief spot of humorous
by-play allowed the Sacristan is
the only gleam that lightens the
otherwise gloomy proceedings,
and John Young wrung every
drop out of the role that he
could; as well, he used his
baritone to good advantage.
❖
“We Find the Bunyip”
Ray Mathew’s play “We Find
the Bunyip” is like a bubble of
beer floating around the kitchen
of the Australian country pub
in which it is set.
It has the grime of the frowsy
pub on it, but it shines with the
lustre of poetry, comedy and
compassion. Within its airy
globe, filled with the scent of
gumleaves as well as of beer,
and touched with moonlight or
sunlight from the hot nights and
days outside, patterns of words
and patterns of people float and
revolve in curious circular
rhythms, like bubbles within the
bubble.
Different as it is in every way
except in this fragile projection
of a bubble, meant as an image
of life rather than as a plot and
a story, it might almost be called
an attempt at an Australian
“Ring Round the Moon.”
And, that being so, it surely
needs the lightest, the most deli-
cate, the most atmospheric
handling if the bubble is to float.
Something did come glimmering
out of the production by
Geoffrey Thomas’s Theatre for
Playwrights at Sydney Independ-
ent. AH faults taken into
account it made a pleasant and
most interesting evening, particu-
larly when the third act revealed
that, after all, Mr. Mathew had
a plot and that something—no
less than a hasty wedding, a
baby and a new hope for life
was going to happen.
There were a few good per-
formances by the actors, particu-
larly Peter Barclay’s amorous
rouseabout, which —except per-
haps for Richard Lett’s almost-
inaudible accordion-player
was the only piece of portraiture
that really had the bush drawl
in it. Jill Bloomfield’s “Blanche
the Barmaid” also made a
pleasant note; she was natural
and plausible and nobly
refrained from waggling her hips
as all other stage barmaids
always do. And Marie McKern’s
sprightly widow was engagingly
sprightly. There were plenty of
laughs.
But not nearly enough of the
real quality of the play—uneven
though it is—emerged. Surely
the setting need not have been
quite so repellent. Surely we
could have seen something,
through door or window, of the
sunlight, the moonlight and the
gumtrees outside. Surely it was
an error to have an impersona-
tion so drab, shrill and negative
as Kathleen Skehan’s Mrs. Pocks
(the landlady) right in the centre
of affairs all night. Surely both
Mrs. Pocks, who is supposed to
have a bosom, and Mr. Pocks,
who is supposed to be fat, were
meant to have a touch of
Rabelaisian rotundity about
them. Surely the silent drunk
Paddy should either have been
made funnier or eliminated.
Surely “Tony the talker” is sup-
posed to be a coruscating and
vital Italian-Australian. Surely...
The play itself has faults
enough. Mr. Mathew will never
write a “Playboy of the Western
World” (which it seems he has
a mind to; and to which pin-
nacle he may yet climb near
enough) while he gives us a
"view of life” instead of a witty
or powerful plot and while so
much of his dialogue consists of
“Damn!”, “Shut up!” and “You
make me sick!” His bunyip,
clearly meant to be real as well
as a symbol of life’s magic
potentialities, is never firmly
established: the playwright
doesn’t believe in it and neither
did any of his actors.
His pub is curiously placeless,
with no-one from the near-by
stations dropping-in on Saturday
night to talk about sheep-sales
and the price of wool the
characters seem more like the
assembly you would find in a
dead-end country boardinghouse
than in a hotel.
The repetitive dialogue is
pleasant and has a purpose; but
the first act needs cutting and so,
unless it could be infinitely
better played, does the long love-
scene at file end of Act 11.
But, with a little revision and
a richer, more sensitive produc-
tion the faults could be mini-
mised and the play could very
likely turn out delightful; and it
can never, because it is alive and
Australian, the writing of a poet
with a genuine talent for the
theatre, fail to be less than
enjoyable. In the barren ground
of the Australian theatre, Mr.
Mathew is a plant worth
watching.
*
“Jokers on the Loose”
Melbourne Tivoli has started
educating its patrons up to
grand-opera standard, judging
by the fact that the best item
on an exceptionally good bill is
June Barton, a Bendigo teenager
who sings the classics like an
angel. After a bit of training—
which, it is understood, Mr.
David Martin, who found her,
is going to give her —she should
sing like an archangel. Present
commentator’s memory may
have been playing him false, but
some of her notes seemed as
liquid as Melba’s.
Red Moore, ex-Kiwi, gives a
comic reflection of Johnny Ray
which is desperately funny, and
a team of Continentals calling
themselves Trio Gypsy play
tricks with each other’s bodies
which make the flesh creep.
When the flesh has stopped
creeping the Wiere Brothers
stroll on and play ducks and
drakes with their fiddles and the
audience’s emotions until the
house is sick with laughter. It
is then served a dose of grace
and beauty by Phillida Cooper
(a local dancer who has whirled
her way overseas into the
Russian ballet) and her husband
and partner James Upshaw.
Artbursfs
Minor Paintings
The unpretentious, conven-
tional little landscapes which get
into the Australian Art Society’s
exhibition (at David Jones’s,
Sydney) are paintings which
could hardly be hung at the
Watercolor Institute or the
Royal Art Society and which
yet, for good intentions, for a
touch of feeling in a landscape,
for a piece of technique that
nearly succeeds, have sometimes
a grain of merit. When painters
of higher quality do appear in
it they frequently use it to show
works not really worth exhibit-
ing ; as, with die exception of
“Cronulla” (the sandhills rather
too painty, but a fine skyful of
light), Garrett Kingsley does
here.
It is doubtful whether the
exhibition, though it would be
well enough in the suburbs, is
of a standard to hang in the
city; but v those who see it will
find a mild pleasure in Alan D.
Baker’s “Magnolias,” T. de Roty
Fodone’s “Bush Track” and the
watercolors by Marjorie Steel,
Mollie Flaxman, John Upton,
Claudia Woodgate and Alison
Faulkner.
$ <►> ♦>
Showing at the Sedon Gal-
leries, Melbourne, is George
Pennefather, an Irish artist,
nine months in this country,
who paints Australian landscape
in the English watercolor tradi-
tion. As he neither shows any
interest in modern idioms nor,
apparently, has seen what the
late Max Meldrum did with the
Australian landscape, he seems
curiously old-fashioned on both
counts.


The afternoon of the long knives
by Noel Donnan
IN his office, the door shut to
hold back the din, Mr.
(“Call Me Joe”) Maypole,
the first liberal headmaster
at Smithtown Central School,
was constructing the third book
of that great series: “Smith-
town’s Model School,” “Super-
Education and Smithtown,”
“Smithtownians at Work and
Play.”
“In the series of projects given
at this school,” began the head-
master in his crisp style, “the
boys display an uninhibited
interest and delight in their
activities never achieved under
the antiquated academic system.”
There he paused, his line of
thought punctuated by a particu-
larly unholy row coming from
John De Wilton’s room. Glanc-
ing through the window, he saw
crowds of boys crossing the play-
ground, apparently to sop up the
spilt ink and debris. For Smith-
town boys were encouraged to
clean up their own messes.
Mr. Maypole smiled benignly.
He had struck ore again. Raising
his pen, he wrote: “Let us make
provision for the creativity of
children and their hunger for
construction, as we have done at
Smithtown.” He related one of
those charming little anecdotes
for which he was famous, of a
boy whom he had saved from
delinquency by allowing him to
insert some panes of glass in
place of the windows he had
smashed.
“That boy today ” he con-
cluded, “is one of the most
promising young men in the
community. All through a little
word in time, a few panes of
glass, and a tin of putty. Thus,
through practical psychology, we
fit our boys at Smithtown (where
all these educational experi-
ments are taking place) for their
role in society.”
He blotted the page and,
grinning hugely, began to reread
it when the noise from John
De Wilton’s roorif, always
formidable, spiralled into a
series of hoarse screams:
“Don’t! Don’t!” followed by a
dull roaring and laughing and the
crackling of flimsy departmental
furniture. Then a rush of feet
down the corridor and the door
opened to reveal Jack Cooper,
his harassed deputy.
“Mr. Maypole, would you
come down to 2D-room?”
“What has happened?”
“John De Wilton . . . the boys
. they . . . they’ve got his
pants -own!”
“Ah-hJ” Mr. Maypole waved
3 chair. “Sit down, Jack, and
take it easy.”
“But”-
“I ouldn’t upset myself over
? I --itle thing like that,” the great
said soothingly. “As far
goes, I think it may be
for the best. He’s a bit of a
prude, you know. . . Never
knocked ' round enough to be a
teacher . . Do him good to
meet a t of life in the raw.”
TpHFA 'ere all on the brink of
*• re ition. Even the mildest
were ; ting around like in-
furiated deep. Alan Coleman,
o Wi in charge of English
and Social-studies in the school,
harangued them.
“The tragedy of these kids,”
cried Coleman, “is that they
should still be swinging through
the trees. Our tragedy—or farce
—is that we have to go on
throwing artificial pearls to real
swine.”
“Hear! Hear!” said Frank
Gollan, in his tone of habitual
cynicism.
Coleman brandished some
projects. “Look at this tripe!”
he cried. “The best of them
pretty pictures, the worst of them
not fit for the rubbish-dump.”
He held up compositions
where the original writing could
still be seen, protruding through
masses of red ink.
“And this dirty scribble! If
someone took down the jabber-
ings of apes in phonetics the
results would be more intelligent
than these. And those are the
kids that Maypole reckons can
do no wrong! Never cane them,
he says, you might give them
neuroses. What about us?
Doesn’t it matter if we get
neurotic?”
“You’re neurotic already,
Coleman,” Gollan jeered.
“There goes Cyril,” Len
O’Connor interrupted. “He
couldn’t wait till this afternoon.”
The teachers hurried over to
the window. Across the play-
ground, Bodgie Rodgers, a surly-
looking boy in a Hawaiian
beach-shirt and dusty jeans, was
slouching up a flight of stairs
towards an isolated room, called
somewhat innocuously the
“clerks’ cupboard.” He was
stalked from a distance of about
forty yards by a large man
shaped like a concentration-
camp attendant.
The teachers, their eyes fer-
vid, crouched at the window.
“Here he is!” and “Good on
you, Cyril!”
The door of the little room
opened and Bodgie emerged,
doubled up, his face apparently
splitting into pieces, squeezing
his hands under his arms. He
ran into the drink-shed. The
teachers smiled.
A few minutes passed before
Cyril appeared. Strolled
casually into the playground.
Paused to light a cigarette.
“Just like y’ said , Boss— eight-hundred pounds on the railway-station—
less tuppence I'ad t ’ pay for a platform-ticket."
Simply out for a saunter in the
afternoon sunshine.
The teachers at the window
cheered, and Cyril’s beefy face
suddenly turned pink with
embarrassment and guilt. “1
g-gave that c-cow f-freedom!”
he cried. “M-Maypole can put
that a-activity in h-his
b-b-books.”
T EN walked out to take his
class. He had no heart in
the job today. He bellowed at
the children to get their books
out, but it was a formal bellow
and it didn’t fool anybody; he
ignored the sporadic rain of
pellets and the inevitable squad-
ron of paper-aeroplanes which
took the air. Dismally, he stared
at Heckyll and Jeckyll as if they
held the answer to his problems.
Heckyll and Jeckyll were his
greatest failures. High comedy
left the twins cold. Len baited
them with farces, rip-roaring
what-nots, tripe-hounds at bay;
he ranted, gesticulated, hammed,
and sang; but they just sat
there, for ever it seemed, abso-
lutely motionless and expression-
less fixtures. He would not have
been surprised if they sprouted
twigs and leaves.
Once, he had mentioned their
case to the headmaster.
“I wouldn’t worry about them,
Len,” the great man said. “As
long as you keep at it, their
personalities are bound to
expand . . . bound to . . . You’ll
see. I had a visit the other day
from the twins’ brother, he’s
working as a cleaner down at
Wynyard. . . fitting in very well,
too. He didn’t seem to be getting
much out of the course when he
was here, but now you should
see him. Fine bearing . . . good
address ... a really mature per-
sonality. Ambitious, too . . .”
Heckyll and Jeckyll always sat
in the front seat, arms sagging,
mouths slightly agape, their hair
spattered about their heads like
sugarcane thrash. In the front
seat, they led their serene exist-
ences, members of a race apart.
And yet, during the course of
the afternoon, Len witnessed a
leavening of their spirits which
seemed to him to be just short
of miraculous.
It was a faint expression at
first (he was sure it was an ex-
pression) in Heckyll’s eye. But
it grew in time to a definite
twinkle, and then it spread to the
other eye, until both eyes were
filled with a pleasure, almost a
delight* such as Len had never
seen there before.
And then, while he watched,
hypnotised, Heckyll withdrew
his long, bony arm, and some-
thing like a smile glimmered on
his lips while he drove his fist
suddenly, and with all the power
at his command, into the muscle
of his twin.
At first Len thought that he
had dreamed it. But Jeckyll,
who had remained inert for a
second or two after the blow,
began to register signs of con-
sternation and rubbed the in-
jured muscle. It was true, Len
reflected, it did happen. He ran
to the door. He felt like
shouting.
It was quiet outside —an un-
usual, monstrous quiet. Pall
upon pall of silence had settled
upon the stairs, the dusty corri-
dors, and the bleak rooms. The
screaming of John De Wilton
and his charges was stilled; the
dog-boxes, prefabricated class-
rooms scattered in anarchical
confusion over the playground,
were caught in that enveloping
mood. Fold upon fold of silence
wrapped the great school round.
Mr. (“Call Me Joe”) Maypole,
the first liberal headmaster of
Smithtown, was on his way to
the Educational Conference, and
he was having a word with his
deputy, Jack Cooper, before he
went out the school-gates.
“If anything crops-up this
afternoon, Jack, you deal with
it the way you think fit,” the
great man said benignly.
The school was busy thinking,
realising, that, officially and off-
handedly, Mr. Jack Cooper was
acting-headmaster of Smithtown
for the rest of the afternoon.
AS soon as the figure of the
head disappeared over the
crest of the hill, there was the
usual, hurried consultation be-
tween the acting-headmaster and
the senior-subject-masters, Mr.
Alan Coleman and Mr. Cyril
Pressick.
“Cyril,” said Jack Cooper,
with feeling, “where are those
canes you had the day of the
last education-conference?”
Cyril unlocked his press and
extracted three long, bamboo
rods, burned black at the tips.
He bent them proudly; they
were very flexible.
“I o-oiled ’em y-yesterday,”
said Cyril.
“Right,” said Jack Cooper,
taking one of the canes in a
firm, brown hand. “Look out,
2D, here I come!”
The big three moved off in
different directions.
And now the silence which
had fallen upon the school grew
deeper, straining, like a gigantic
bubble trembling over the
school, grew like some impos-
sibly deep stillness to its climax
and then as suddenly snapped
into the staccato swishes, cracks,
and yelps which, Len reflected,
were the traditional marks of
the trade.
Len walked inside. A new
terror, the new chaos, had
arisen. An old Irishman pass-
ing by selling clothes-props
hurried away from “the mad-
house,” as he called it, crossing
himself. The last time he was
there a horde of boys issuing
from the school had seized his
clothes-props and fled, leaving
him dazed on the road.
TN at the educational confer-
ence, Joe Maypole was
making converts: dried-out in-
spectors, progressivist head-
masters . . . converts even from
the. ranks of those whose own
roads to success lay over bruised
hands, pink ears, and sore
knuckles.
He spoke frankly from the
outset. It was time, he said, for
a change in educational theory
—it was a political necessity.
But, besides being expedient,
such a change as he was imple-
menting at Smithtown was wise
and good, based as it was on
the soundest of educational
and psychological practice.
(Applause.)
It led, on the teacher’s side,
to a love and understanding of
children; it inspired teachers
with a new idealism and a sense
of mission as urgent as the im-
pelling faith of the earliest
Christian missionaries. (Vocifer-
ous applause.)
Briefly, Joe indicated the
evils of the authoritarian regime.
When he began to plead before
that great assembly of head-
masters and inspectors that ex-
aminations, repressive pro-
cedures such as. semi-military
assemblies and marching, and
above all, canes, should be abol-
ished as had been done at
Smithtown, there was something
quietly inspiring about his
words, something mellifluous
and soothing like St. Francis
murmuring to the doves.
His address concluded, a row
of celebrated authoritarians re-
canted and many other hearts
warmed to the new liberalism.
Professor John Garton wrote an
account of the success which
attended Mr. Maypole’s liberal
experiments at Smithtown and
stressed the importance of this
new thinker in the educational
field.
A/jE AN WHILE, at Smithtown,
IVX tti e members of Mr. May-
pole’s staff, so long frustrated,
so harshly stripped of the right
to wallop, regained their historic
privilege—for the rest of that
afternoon, anyway.
Reaction had triumphed, if
momentarily, under the very
nose of progress. Freud, Dewey,
and Mr. Maypole might never
have existed. Only Mr. Squeers
was there —or some claimed he
was: a mere ghost of his former
self, though merry enough, as he
ran around whacking poor
damned souls. But the majority
denied it. They were not
Squeerses, they said: they
would have none of him. Nor
was this simply a battle for la
gloire or for mere revanche:
it was a struggle for survival.
Most of the teachers felt this
to be true. Several of their
weaker members had long since
gone, some lucky enough to be
transferred, others in hospitals
or rest-homes on account of dis-
orders and overstrain, while a
couple of the older ones quickly
found their way into then-
graves, overcome by the break-
down of traditional academic
standards and codes of conduct
or simply rolled under by the
violence which accompanied the
educational revolution or the
mere exertion of trying to turn
back the wave which had sud-
denly fallen upon them.
The last casualty was a re-
tread nicknamed “The Preacher”
by the boys because of his
interminable dissertations on
manners. He had a cold, steely
smile which ordinarily would
have commanded respect among


INSURANCE
—for your protection -
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines)
W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
m
m: ■
CLOTHES
They’re better dressed
in STAMINA
... from every point of view.
Better, because your sons look smarter and neater.
They have that “Good morning” brightness which
draws so many admiring glances and comments.
Better, because Stamina clothes stand up to tougher
treatment and harder wear. They have special,
built-in strength that adds years of life to every
suit.
Better, because Stamina gives protection. The pure
wool Crusader cldth provides natural insulation
against sudden changes of temperature, thus pre-
venting coughs and colds. Stamina keeps boys
healthy.
Better, because Stamina clothes cost so much less.
Let the Stamina brand be your guarantee of
goodness. s
ASK FOR
Stamina
BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
TAILORED FROM
CRUSADER
CLOT
8W5.113
scholars; but at Smithtown his
habit of saying “I want my boys
to be little gentlemen” or
"‘You’re a lout, son, I don t like
louts! ” earned him the oppro-
brium of the school gangs with
which he waged unrelenting war
until his decease.
The boys used to lie in wait
for him and call out as he went
by: “Hey, Preacher! Don’t you
like louts?” Gradually, he grew
thinner, more nervous, and his
face lost its customary lustre.
He refused, however, to accept
Joe Maypole’s principles and in-
sisted that the headmaster
punish “miscreants” whom he
took to the office for punish-
ment. These were promptly
dealt with by the great man, who
sent them on messages or to
paint and work jigsaw-puzzles
in an activity-room designed for
the purpose.
Very soon “The Preacher”
was taking dozens of boys up
to the office daily and the acti-
vity-room began to take on the
atmosphere of an overcrowded
guest-house. Then, one
while frog-marching a “mis-
creant” across the playground,
“The Preacher” had one of his
seizures and died of a heart-
attack. A two-minutes’ silence
was observed in his honor the
next day. .
To replace him the depart-
ment sent along Dr. Ivan
Kalinov, Ph.D., a distinguished
European scholar who was wait-
ing for a chair in one of the
universities. Dr. Kalinov was
a very fat man with sagging mid-
riff and undercarriage, a pallid
face and big, bulging black eyes.
Into his forehead and neck tiny
black curls had been delicately
screwed. His skin was very
sallow, and this, together with
his general flabbiness and
renowned capacity for sustained
hothouse scholarship, was taken
as an indication that he was
unhealthy.
The boys, who had become
expert in calculating a teacher’s
possibilities, predicted that he
would not last long.
Dr. Kalinov was a social-
scientist. Some practical-joker
in at the department had told
him that he would have an
interesting field of study at
Smithtown, and that the school
should prove all the more attrac-
tive, as it was run by an
advanced thinker along liberal
lines.
The doctor did not succumb
without a struggle. But in half
a day he was obliged to relin-
quish his liberalism. At mid-
day he rushed into the staff-
room, his pallid face the color
of a ripe tomato. Perspiration
was streaming out of his curls
and pouring like a divided water-
fall down both sides of his face,
while he tore at his throat to
loosen his collar and his stomach
heaved in protesting dismay at
his unusual exertions.
“Give me a cane,” he cried,
“and I vill go to vork! ”
The odds at Smithtown were
heavily weighted against Dr.
Kalinov. The accented voice,
his tiny, manicured hands which
flourished elegantly around his
words, and his vast store of
erudition inspired Smithtownians
with a kind of frenzied delight.
Even with the cane he could not
keep them at bay. Calling out
“Pedro!” and “Baggy-bum!”
they pelted him with paper,
banana-skins, bread and butter—
anything. It was a relief to the
staff when he disappeared that
afternoon. Whether the uni-
versity or the school gangs got
him, no one bothered to inquire.
There were some interesting
conjectures, however, on the
doctor’s disappearance; and
some of the boys with a flair for
mystery said that he was a
foreign spy or the accomplice of
a criminal band out to steal the
school cup. But the majority of
boys genuinely regretted his
passing and for weeks inquired
after Dr. Kalinov’s health and
asked when he would be
returning.
TMTEMORIES of these, their
‘ vx fallen comrades, spurred the
reactionaries on to bold, even
desperate deeds this afternoon of
the educational conference, or,
to give it its more appropriate
nomenclature, “the afternoon of
the long knives.”
“Right-oh, 2D —in a straight
line. Hah! Hah! That’ll do
you. Get your hands up,
Thomas! Up, I said! Ah!
Hah! Now, my friend, Jones.
This is going to hurt you more
than me, Jones. Hah! Hah!
Smith, you can wait till last,
I’ve got something special for
you. Thank-you, Butler. A
little higher, please . . . Hah!
Hah! You fellows can cer-
tainly hand it out, I’ll say that
for you, you’re not so good—
hullo, Mr. Coleman, what’s the
trouble?”
“Wicksy here reckons he won’t
take the cane. Says he wants to
see Mr. Maypole about it. How
do you like that?”
“Won’t take it? Come onr,
Wicksy, get it out, quick and
lively! That’s right! Hah!
Hah! Come on! Again! This
is for trying to be the bush-
lawyer. Hah!' Hah! Won’t
take it! I don’t know what’s
wrong with kids these days. I
could take twice as much when
I was only half their age. Come
on, Bill, you’re next!”
At first Jack Cooper and the
S.S.A.s had a lien on the
punishment, but the fury of
reaction in the air eventually
affected everyone on the staff.
Len, who firmly believed in
democracy and the common
man, and who had been one of
the few on the staff who sin-
cerely supported Joe Maypole’s
liberal experiments, found him-
self with his hands around a big
boy’s neck shouting, “Out!
Out!” as he thrust him to the
door.
“Y’re chokin’ me! Y’re chokin’
me!” the lad yelled. He broke
free and opened his knife. “I’ll
stab y’ in the bloody eye!”
Len grappled with him again
and managed to wrest the knife
from his hand, but the boy
wriggled free, and, howling
curses, ran down the playground.
Len returned to the class-room.
Before his iron gaze the rest
of the class filtered back into
their seats; and there was
quiet.
Len sat at the table. Was
there any democratic education?
he asked himself bitterly.
Could you ever get it with Cali-
bans who hated authority and
yet who openly derided the offer-
ing of freedom: rebels and
reactionaries at the same time?
He stared coldly at Heckyll and
Jeckyll. Dully, unseeingly, they
returned his gaze. And then, as
he watched, Jeckyll smiled
secretively; his eyes shone with
gleeful malice; and he clenched
his fist and struck out at his
twin’s muscle. It was Heckyll’s
turn to suffer.
Len was impressed once more
in spite of his feelings. First
Heckyll, now Jeckyll had
asserted his existence. The great
man had been right, then. They
had reacted at last to the
cultural environment.
The class was quiet, working.
Quiet reigned again at Smith-
town that afternoon.
AT three - twenty the bell
sounded. There was to be
an assembly after school. The
teachers marched their boys into
the assembly area. Several of
the older members of the staff,
Len noticed, were wielding canes
and calling out: “Left! Right!
Left!”
When all were present, Jack
Cooper, the recalcitrant deputy,
appeared at the window-micro-
phone. He looked out at the
playground littered with idly-
floating papers, squashed
bananas, overturned garbage-
bins and other products of self-
expression.
“I have never—never in my
life, seen such a disgusting mess
in a playground before,” he
began quietly. “Some animals
—get out that fellow laughing!
No, not you, stupid. Third
from the end in the sixth row.
Yes, you’re the fellow—get
along to my office . . .”
Len took his brief-case and
left. The gentlemen of the staff
could go, said Jack Cooper, but
the boys . . .
Len looked back once. The
emu-parade was in full swing.
Jack was walking amongst them
with a bamboo-cane in his
hands. It looked like the
beginning of a new era.,
Actually, it was the end of
one: tomorrow, liberalism
would triumph once more.
Len strode towards the station.
He wondered what Joe Maypole
would say if he heard about
this afternoon’s show. Probably
nothing, he decided. Or very
little, anyway. For, above all,
Joe believed in graceful living.
Bitter wrangles with his deputy
and the S.S.A.s would not be
part of the life Mr. Maypole had
mapped out for himself. He
would reinstate liberalism im-
mediately, of course, pretend
that nothing had happened. He
didn’t want any bad publicity.
Anyway, what else could he
do when his whole life was com-
mitted to saying everything in
the garden was always lovely?
Graceful living like that was not
ethically sound, Len concluded.
But then, what about caning
boys?
Len reflected a little on the
hallowed charms of the good
old days. The thumbscrew, the
rack, the cat —and their poor
country cousin, the cane. He had
used it, himself, he remembered
—so had Joe Maypole before
he jumped on the modern-
education tripe-wagon. But use
it again?
“Rag-mop!”
Len spun round. “Rag-mop”
was his nickname. On account
of his mane of curly black hair.
“Ah, O’Connor! Rag-mop!”
He saw them then across the
road at the hotel comer. There
was the youth he had scuffled
with earlier in the afternoon and
two ex-pupils whom he had
heartily detested in bygone
days. They had middies of beer
in their hands.
Involuntarily, Len walked
more quickly, but they followed
him up the road, the two ex-
pupils chanting the words of the
popular song:
“One, two, three, four! Rag-
mop!” and his enemy of the
morning yelled out threaten-
ingly: “We’ll get y’, O’Connor!
We’ll get y’ for that, O’Connor! ”
People began to stare curiously
at Len. He felt as though he
had snatched a lady’s handbag.
A barber in front of his salon
grinned sympathetically at him:
“I wouldn’t have your job for
all the money in the world.”


CHATEAU TANUNDA
No. 7
A bushranger pursued by two mounted police officers.*
THE BUSHRANGERS
t
£
f
The heyday of Australia’s bushrangers occurred
after the discovery of gold in New South Wales
and Victoria, but there were bushrangers in
Australia long before the 1850’s.
The word was used as early as 1806 to describe con-
vict escapees. Later, many of these escapees became
outback robbers and murderers, but towards the end
of the 1840's the vigilance and sternness of the
police had crushed most of the gangs.
Gold discoveries brought a new type of bushranger.
Instead of escapees, bushranging became the pursuit of
the so-called “wild colonial boys," who were mainly
adventurers with a distaste for work and a reckless
hunger for easy money. They made most of their
biggest hauls by robbing gold coaches.
One of the most notorious of the new bushrangers
was Frank McCullum (“Captain Melville"); his un-
savoury exploits in Victoria were equalled by the
brutal Daniel Morgan, who shot unarmed men and
tortured women. Among less brutal (and more success-
ful) bushrangers were Frank Gardiner—whose gang
staged the Eugowra escort robbery in 1862, which
netted £12,000 in coin and gold dust—John Piesley,
John Gilbert, John Dunn, Ben Hall, the Clarke
brothers, and Frederick Ward. Ward, who became
known as “Captain Thunderbolt,” is generally re-
garded as the last of the N.S.W. bushrangers.
The last and perhaps the most celebrated bush-
ranging gang was headed by Ned Kelly. Like many of
the earlier bushrangers, Kelly and the three other
members of his gang, gained much of their immunity
through the activities of “bush telegraphs”—people
who warned them of the movements of police and
trackers. The Kelly gang began their audacious ex-
ploits in 1878 and continued them until 1880.
* Print courtesy of the Mitchell Library.
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W. -
TUCKER AND COMPANY PTY. LTD. EST. 1838 '
o GF7
The Sulmarine Ehost
by Eavus S.Casey
ANDY MACTAVISH had
knowledge that gave him
power.
He had, also, a cautious
faith in small profits and quick
returns that is rarely part of the
make-up of a marine engineer,
and does him little good if it is.
But it meant success for Andy
throughout most of a life that
was cut short lamentably in its
prime.
It all began when he was about
thirty, content with his profes-
sion but sometimes dreaming of
greater, surer things, and un-
comfortably aware that one of
the shortcomings of seagoing was
in the sketchy, usually unsatis-
factory matrimonial arrange-
ments it imposed on those who
followed it.
“Ah, laddie,” Andy used to
say, gloomily, “Ah’m no’ a
marryin’ man, and I’ll no’ be
until I can offer a lassie more
than any lassie can get from a
seagoing engineer.”
He talked like that for years,
advising the young or commiser-
ating with the old, but he could
never work out how he could
make money that wouldn’t melt
away in a few gay nights ashore,
and then accumulate enough of
it to plan for early retirement
and comfortable leisure. But
when, at last, his chance came,
Andy was quick to see and to
grasp it.
“Well, my boy, we’re going
to give you a spell from the sea,
for a while,” Willie Firth, the
marine superintendent of the
Tartan Banner line of tramp-
steamers told him.
“An’ why would that be,
Muster Firth?” Andy asked,
filled with quick, hostile sus-
picion of some sort of plot
against him.
“We’re getting a new ship
built,” Firth said, beaming. “The
best and fanciest Ireland and
South have ever turned out of
their yard. And when it’s
launched and in commission
you’ll be able to use that chief’s
ticket of yours, laddie.”
“An’ what in the meantime?”
asked Andy, better pleased but
still suspicious. “Ah canna give
up eatin’ for a year while they
build it.”
“A lovely spell ashore —a paid
holiday,” said old Firth, slapping
him on the back. “Shows what
the company thinks of you,
m’boy. They want you to watch
the job for them. Just living
ashore, and drawing your money
to watch other people work,
that’s what it’ll be—with a nice
bonus when she’s launched, for
sure.”
“When wull ma chief’s pay
start, Muster?”
“Not until she goes to sea,
of course, laddie. But it’s the
chance of a lifetime. You’ll be
the youngest chief in the line,
and a sure thing for other big
jobs after this one.”
Andy chewed his long, Scot-
tish upper lip and looked
mutinous. Second - engineers
pay isn’t bad, but it puts nobody
in the idle-rich class when he
is not at sea, with food and
accommodation provided, and
a lot of the other necessities of
life dirt-cheap outside anybody’s
three-mile limit. But then Andy
smiled happily. The shiewd,
fast-moving mind that made him
a fine engineer, but that he had
begun to lose faith in as an
instrument to solve the financial
and potential matrimonial prob-
lems of seamen, had spun into
gear. In a flash he saw the future
assured, and accepted the plan
as quickly as possible, before
anybody could change his
mind.
Firth had, in truth,
* * imagined would be an easy
year for Andy, “just watching
other people work,” became the
busiest of his life. When Firth
paid his occasional visits to Ire-
land and South’s shipyard, the
supervisor-on-the-job was always
acting true to type, lounging
about with bored superiority as
he watched the quality of the
materials that went into the ship.
But when Firth wasn’t 'there,
which was most of the time,
Andy Mactavish presented a
very different picture.
He seemed to be on the job
day and night, and to take a
keen interest in every detail of
every operation, however small.
He was everlastingly in earnest
conference with welders, riveters,
gang foremen, lesser engineers
and, when the ship was launched
and being fitted, with carpenters
and electricians, refrigeration-
men, and everybody else who
did anything anywhere. It might
also have been observed, had
anybody taken the trouble to
follow him around, that small
but useful sums of money
changed hands from time to
time, always passing from Andy
to the other party.
Andy was investing his life’s
savings, and the worry of that
plus all the work he did might
have reduced a lesser man to
nervous prostration. But Andy
was tough so tough that he
even managed simultaneously to
carry out the project that was the
other half of his plan for the
future, that of getting married.
He had some disillusioning
experiences with feather-headed
girls who seemed to regard the
pictures, sweets, rich foods and
drink, clothes and ornaments as
more desirable than airy talk
about some vaguely prosperous
future. But eventually he noticed
Maggie.
Maggie was a widow, and
landlady to himself and another
young man in the lodgings he
was occupying while his shore-
job lasted. He saw her every
day for a long while before he
particularly noticed her, perhaps
because, although he was a
reasonable lump of a man, she
was four inches taller, an axe-
handle wider across the beam,
and about five years his senior.
He might never have noticed her
but that no man of his pattern
of mind could fail to be im-
pressed sooner or later by the
tremendous number of pots of
tea Maggie got out of a half-
pound packet, the innumerable
serves of reasonable food that
came, in her house, from a
simple neck of mutton.
“Yon’s a thrifty lassie,” Andy
told himself, approvingly.
, “Beauty’s only skin deep, an’ a’
that, an’ Ah don’t doubt she’s
the gumption to know that a
second husband wad be worth
cherishin’, for she’d never get a
third.”
He started his courting with a
cautious invitation to the pic-
tures, and it progressed rapidly,
not without occasional moments
of alarm for him. Maggie’s
ardor was apt to be overwhelm-
ing, and she had more of it than
he had ever suspected. “Ah,
weel,” he reflected, “Ah sup-
pose a wumman’s a poor, weak
creature, even if she’s the size o’
two or three, an’ Maggie has a
kind heart and a shrewd head.
Ah ken Ah could do worrrse.”
“Andy lad, it’ll be gey awful
when you’re at sea,” Maggie told
him once, when she was cuddled
up to him rather like a moun-
tain landslide in the course of
engulfing a sturdy hill.
“Ye ken it’ll no’ be for long.
Ten years at the outside,” Andy
told her, firmly.
“Ah don’t know what Ah’ll
do, the long nights. Ah’m a
lassie wha needs her mon.”
“Weel, Ah’m the mon ye need,
and ye know it.” Andy was
masterful, and deeply worried.
“Ye ken I’m one that likes a
romp as well as ony, an’ we’ll
have them, too, wumman. But
there’s business as well as plea-
sure in this. Do you bank what
I send, an’ we’ll have our bit
of fun together whenever I can
get home, and in ten years ye
can live like a lady. We’re
partners.”
“Ye’d tell me more about this
business, if we were really
partners.”
“Things a wumman dinna ken,
she canna babble about,” said
Andy, with finality.
TAESPITE his occasional fears
Maggie grew to look more
and more like the lass he wanted,
and her huge, rosy embraces be-
came satisfying, except when
they put him in danger of being
smothered. They were married
a month before the new Tartan
Emblem was ready for the sea,
and by that time the worry, the
work, and Maggie had brought
Andy’s weight down nearly a
stone but there was a new, keen
light in his eye.
His reputation stood high with
the owners because of a report
they had had from the
construction-manager of Ireland
and South, that the company’s
representative on the Emblem
job had been “the snoopiest,
never - sleeping, nosy, over-
energetic damn’ nuisance” they’d
ever had on a job, and that any
future contracts the builders had
with Tartan Banner would have
a clause forbidding him within
five miles of the shipyard.
This flattery caused an early
crisis in the affairs Andy had
thought would run comfortably
and profitably for years. When
Tartan contracted for another,
bigger ship, to be made by
different builders, they wanted
him to go ashore for another
year or so, this time at ( his chief’s
salary; and Firth was aston-
ished at the ferocity with which
he opposed the idea.
“It shows how highly they
think of you, my boy,” Firth
pointed out, soothingly. “Why,
one or two more jobs like that
and you’ll have mine—you’ll be
marine-supervisor when I retire.”
“I’ll no’ have y’r job, then or
ever. Muster Firth,” said Andy,
passionately. He went on, in
startling contradiction of views
he had been expressing for years,
“Ah’m a mon o’ the sea, and
I could no’ be happy ashore
wi’ five-thoosand a year. If they
think so highly of me, why don’t
they leave me alone?”
They thought him queer, but
after that they left him alone,
and for almost the ten years he
had planned he sailed the various
seas. From the ports of the
world he sent cautiously affec-
tionate letters to Maggie, always
with money in them —and some-
times, in the interests of safety,
three or four letters from one
port in the course of a few days.
Each time he came home him-
self Maggie’s admiration for
him grew, as it might have been
expected to for a man who got
such sums of money from some-
where or other, even though she
never knew where it came from.
When disaster eventually
struck, Maggie was inconsolable,
but she was set up for life, with
bank-accounts that would have
astonished anybody who had
known of them, and no need
either to work or worry about
another husband for the rest of
her days. She never did find
out where the money came from,
for she was not really an in-
quisitive woman.
What happened to Andy was
one of those simple, sad things
that should never happen at all,
and seldom do. Off watch, in
moderately rough weather in the
Indian Ocean not far from the
Western Australian coast, he was
strolling about the deck, as he
often did, smoking and thinking
with satisfaction about Maggie’s
bank-accounts. Then a wave
bigger than the rest arrived,
caught him in a careless moment,
and sent him overboard into
water not angry enough to
trouble the stout ship Tartan
Emblem, but far too rough for
Andy.
Lifebuoys were flung, the
alarm given, the ship stopped
and turned, and a boat was
launched rather hazardously.
But nobody ever saw Andy
again. There was sadness on the
Tartan Emblem for an hour or
two, then a series of shocks as
certain people remembered
various things, then a frenzy of
racing about in activity that
accomplished almost nothing.
After that there was some bitter
unfriendly talk about a late mate
who, as a believer in small profits
and quick returns, had never
overcharged those for whom he
did small favors.
OADNESS first changed to
alarm when Joe, the third-
engineer, lounging in a corner of
the saloon with Fred, the second-
officer, suddenly spilled his gin.
and said, “Cripes! My Yank
cigarettes! ”
He glared around him insanely
for a moment before Fred real-
ised what was in his mind. When
he did, Fred snarled, “Hell! The
nylons for Joyce! Kitty’s per-
fume! I wonder if the silly old
cow had a plan anywhere.”


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862*
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, O. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J, K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
Jl
fXtGiDOAf I ™"
KNOCK/
m
: -
' ■;;;;
m
m
m
m
YOUR
YOUjPfi
foot down
Think oi it!
No longer need you "nurse" your motor to avoid knock and ping on hills or
in quick getaways. With sensational new Atlantic Extra there's smooth,
effortless, knock-free power instantly ready to answer your throttle call
knock-free power you've never had before because Atlantic Extra is the
highest octane fuel ever sold in Australia. Yes, power to spare, plus extra
economy, because Atlantic Extra gives you more miles per gallon, so it
actually saves you money to pay the few more pence that this truly superior
fuel costs.
AT
rwi
ic
AE2M
'Jhe Spirit of Happy Motoring'
The pair got jammed in the
doorway, in a simultaneous rush
for the little cabin Andy had
occupied, and as he disentangled
them the chief-steward, pale-
faced and haggard, muttered,
“May I come with you, please,
gentlemen? I well, I’m prob-
ably more used to going through
luggage and furnishings than
you are, and should there be a
plan I’d find it faster.”
“Sure, Harry,” Joe told him.
“You find a plan, and you’re on
four cartons of Chesterfields.”
“Thank you, sir,” said the
steward, sadly, as he led the way.
“I’ll be well content if I can
just recover my bolts of silk.
I have connections on the Mel-
bourne waterfront who will be
very angry if I can’t produce the
silk.”
After that, everybody began
to realise the predicament in
which they were all left. There
was no plan, and there was a
furious searching of the Tartan
Emblem from stem to stern. For
Andy had taken with him into
the depths of the Indian Ocean
all the human knowledge that
existed of the scores of secret
compartments he had bribed
various tradesmen to build into
the hull and fittings of the ship
in the year he had spent super-
vising its construction.
All the profitable contraband
they had been paying Andy a
small rake-off to stow away for
them was lost to them for ever,
hidden in holes and crannies,
behind sliding panels that had
successfully defied the world’s
keenest Customs officers for ten
years!
In a way, the situation was a
great equaliser and worked for
true social democracy, when the
skipper, a lofty personage com-
monly thought to be above a bit
of smuggling, became as anxious
and excited as anybody else.
What the captain seemed to be
worrying about was so small a
package that some of the men
and the junior officers leeringly
told each other that there was
no doubt about it, the Old Man
was in the drug-running racket,
the pompous* hypocritical old
swine.
But what happened ajso
created ill-feeling among friends.
The solitary cache that was un-
covered yielded up 20,000
American cigarettes, and owner-
ship of all these, and in some
cases more, was claimed by 24
members of the crew, who
fought about it for the rest of
the voyage to Sydney, all the
way back to England, and, in
the cases of particularly cranky
individuals, for all their lives
whenever they met in ships, pubs,
or streets.
Bitterness against the late
Andy grew intense, for not only
did the loot seem lost, but the
whole profitable contraband-
trade of the Tartan Emblem was
ruined until the hiding-places
could be found aboard for future
use. In Sydney, Joe, the third-
engineer, brought aboard a
shabby, shifty-eyed character
who, to the amazement of some,
he plied with drink, flattery, and
money.
“Keep it dark, but he’s the best
cracksman in the city,” Joe con-
fessed to Fred. “Find anything
and pinch anything, this bloke.
If he can’t find Andy’s hideouts,
then nobody can.”
But the cracksman couldn’t.
It was another profitless effort —
or it was thought to have been
so until it wgs discovered that
the ship’s compass and half the
radar-equipment, the skipper’s
shore-going uniform, and most
of the officers’ saloon-cutlery had
apparently gone down the gang-
plank with the safebreaker, who
had thus ensured that the ill-
wind should blow at least him
some good.
“Bah!” said Fred, after the
dismal experiment. “The best
burglars in the world are in
London, anyway. Wait till we
get to London.”
LONDON, naturally, was
reached in due course, but
the finest criminal talent of the
mighty city found itself helpless
against the talent for conceal-
ment of a skilled marine-engineer
who had had a hand in building
the ship. And, of course, with
the good times over for Tartan
Emblem crews, the secret leaked
out.
Customs-officers grinned the
wolfish grins they are wont to
indulge in every few years, when
what they see as poetic justice
overtakes smugglers. Some crew-
members shipped off the Emblem
in disgust, and others left wrath-
fully because tattered tempers
and no profits above pay were
making it into a hell-ship. The
Emblem became satirically
known on the waterfronts as
“the treasure galleon.”
Butjt had no trouble in getting
full crews, because the world
was full of seamen who fancied
their chances of being smarter
than all who had gone before,
and uncovering at least some of
the loot Andy had hidden for
his clients.
The next time the Emblem
headed out on the Australia run
it carried a cheerful, cynical-eyed
young steward with a new idea,
and this young man made no
effort to keep it to himself.
“What’d be the good?" young
Margate Charlie confided to the
men who had been in the crew
in Andy’s day. “I might have
luck, of course, but if you ask
me the ones Andy’ll want to get
in touch with will be his old
pals, like you blokes. You’re all
in on it, as long as you’ll give
me a bit of a cut.”
Mighty promises of magnifi-
cent cuts were made, and a man
as yet unacquainted with what
was going on wanted to know
what it was all about.
“He’s got a ouija-board,” he
was told. “When we’re where
poor old Andy went down we’ll
try to get in touch with him,
away in the other world.”
“Away at the bottom of the
sea,” sneered a disbeliever.
“Ghosts are bunk. We oughta
train a fish to go down and have
a yam with him.”
“I’ll throw you overboard, and
you can have a yarn with him,”
roared a passionate optimist.
“This spirit-business mightn’t be
all Charlie thinks, but it’s worth
a try, ain’t it?”
As far as most of the crowd
could see, they had tried every-
thing else, anyway. There was
great consultation of the ship’s
log and charts of the fatal
voyage on which Andy had gone
overboard, and when the exact
latitude and longitude were
established the captain agreed
without hesitation to pass as
nearly over the spot as he could.
As it drew closer, shifts of off-
watch old-timers who had been
more or less intimate with Andy
crouched anxiously over the
ouija-board, and some of the
results were queer, to say the
least of it.
Once, during a session when
Margate Charlie was a partici-
pant, indistinguishable doodling
suddenly became swift and eager
writing. Messages flashed some-
how all over the ship, and soon
everybody except the men on
the bridge and the firemen and
others who had to * keep steam
up was crowding around the
table. They were grimmer-faced
and more silent than the on-
lookers at any poker-game for
fantastic stakes, as the questions
were put and the answers
came :
“Is that you, Andy?”
“Ma bluidy oath, it’s ma.”
“It’s him, all right,” said
somebody happily. “He writes
Scots, not English.”
“Are you all right, Andy?”
the questioner went on,
cautiously, before getting down
to what was really in his mind.
“Nae.”
“It waj, a sad thing, Andy.
Your old mates’ll never forget
you.”
“The laddies that are owin’
me money will.”
That was the opening, and
Charlie suggested, tactfully,
“You left some of them in a fix,
you know, Andy.”
“Aye, tae ma eternal sorrow.”
“Well, old mate, tell us where
the stuff is. Tell us, and we’ll
send your cut straight to
Maggie.”
“Ah canna ken the Maggie,
but the stuff’s in Battersea.”
Ouija-boards are supposed to
be approached with reverence,
and direct questions, but that
astonishing answer brought an
incredulous roar of “Battersea?”
from all throats allied to ears
within hearing.
“Aye. Where the bobbies gave
up the chase, o’ course,” wrote
the moving pencil.
“He’s not Andy Mactavish,”
said someone, in a despairing
voice. “He’s some other Andy.”
The scrawl racing onto the
paper under their collective
hands read, “Ah’m no’ a Mac-
tavish, God be praised, an’ Ah
ken Ah’m no’ in the right com-
pany, so Ah’m awa, an’ to hell
wi’ ye all.”
AFTER that, for a long while,
the board would do nothing
but draw caricatures of the late
Herr Hitler, write extracts from
Lincoln’s Gettysburg address, or
utter obscenities. The scoffers
scoffed more loudly than ever,
but Margate Charlie had staunch
supporters.
“We got a spirit, didn’t we?”
challenged Charlie. “Happened
to be the wrong Andy, and what
the hell Battersea Andy was
doing so far from home I don’t
know, but it was just like a wrong
number on the telephone. We’ll
keep on trying.”
They did, and some of the
results were amazing, particu-
larly when Charlie had his hands
on the board. The most note-
worthy and nerve-wracking
occasion was when they made
contact with what seemed to be
beyond all doubt the genuine
Andy Mactavish. But to the
horror of some and the firm dis-
belief of others Andy seemed to
have got religion in that other
world beyond the skies or
beneath the waves, or wherever
it was.
“Ma sorrow is sincere, but
Ah’ve seen the light,” Andy
wrote.
“You can’t let your pals
down,” chorused the old-timers
and the newcomers, in anguish.
“Sairvice tae morality an’
human decency is mair than
auld friendships. Ah wish ye
luck, but no’ in wicked schemes
tae circumvent the Customs.”
After that, somehow, Mar-
gate Charlie’s popularity with his
shipmates declined. He was
regarded with suspicion not
eased by the amused leer that
seemed to have fitted itself to
his face, and to become more
offensive in the presence of some
people, mostly officers.
But hope dies hard and when
the Tartan Emblem’s very next
voyage was again to Australia
a peculiar situation arose after
she had been several weeks at
sea. The captain, popping un-
expectedly into the saloon to
inquire into the thirsts of his
officers, found them entertaining
a lean, soulful individual he had
never seen before. His eyes
bulged, and without conscious
thought he automatically emitted
a series of wrathful bellows
which shook the ship.
Later, in the greater privacy
of the skipper’s own cabin, Fred,
the second-officer, tried to
explain.
“Yes, sir,” Fred admitted.
“We’ve had him aboard ever
since London. But we thought,
sir, you’d approve. We thought
you’d agree with us, but that
you wouldn’t be able to do so
officially.”
“To hell with him!” the cap-
tain roared. “I had enough
hanky-panky with that damned
steward, last voyage, without a
stowaway this time.”
Fred drew himself up, haught-
ily, and said, “This is not hanky-
panky, sir. We’re educated men,
not clowns like that Margate
Charlie. This man was the most
highly - esteemed spiritualistic
medium in London, and he
wished to get to Australia purely
for health reasons. We’re sure
he’ll find —ah, well, the facts that
Andy didn’t give us when he
was alive, sir.”
“That doesn’t interest me,
blast you! ” But the captain was
thoughtfully scratching his chin.
“For me, it was only,a matter
of a few bottles of Scotch for
my brother in Adelaide, mind
you. But my brother’s very fond
of Scotch, and this will be the
third voyage now I’ve had noth-
ing more than an odd bottle for
him. I’ll admit I’d like to get
hold of that Scotch.”
Fred grinned happily, with
relief and confidence, and in a
matter of days Opus Ami, the
Pathway to the Past, was no
longer a stowaway. He was an
honored guest on the Tartan
Emblem, his health and well-
being a matter of concern to all,
and his slightest wish gratified
with increasing eagerness as they
approached the place where the
waters had engulfed poor Andy.
HTHE shifts of would-be com-
-*■ municants with their departed
(i Continued on page 34)


4
-4-
4-
l“vV
•+
f-jh
a
i i!
“m
s '/
///
!•«»
I '/£
«,»•
III!
• l*i‘
(%)
'••I
, AVIATION
m
'SERVICE
'll til///
//*'//<
••ill
I ••
I'l
fl'l'l
t*
«/ l/
©
<5
' V'*
•' /
&
» * *
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
t/6f
What do you mean
by ‘Scotch’?
BELfcS
SCOTCH ww.SSrt
WtlUtO Al>o
jWTcOTIAH# fa
Distillers «™
iPtCIAL Rf J i
There are many very good
Scotch Whiskies. But when
a connoisseur thinks of
‘Scotch’ he thinks of Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky. Bell’s
are an old firm of independ-
ent distillers. Independent
to go on producing whisky
possessed of all the skill and
knowledge of generations.
Try some yourself. Savour
the smooth, elusive flavour
of a whisky carefully blend-
ed, well-matured. If you’re
a connoisseur Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky will delight
you.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur BeU <k Sons Ltd.
Distillers, Perth, Scotland
Established 1825
II
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem “My Brother Ben
and I.” —6145.
To buy copy of “Bulletin” Reciter.
—6146.
To buy copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm. —6l47.
To buy copies of books by “Bill
Bowyang.”—6l4B.
Information Supplied
With reference to the wreck of the
Countess Russell near Bustard Bay
(Q.), Captain R. G. Ledley, of Bris-
bane, supplies the following informa-
tion : The Countess Russell, of
Quebec, was stranded and lost 15
miles south of Bustard Bay in
August, 1873. The captain and
boats’-crew reached Keppel Bay and
arrived at Rockhampton on August
25. The wreck was sold by auction;
the stores realised £BOO. Queens-
land Marine Board held an inquiry,
and suspended the master’s certificate
for three months; September 15,
1873.
Information Sought
Make-up of the undercoat or size
used by artists to prepare canvas for
■ oil-painting ?
All canvases bought ready-stretched
are prepared for painting and need
no further treatment. For home-
stretched canvases or inferior pieces,
there is nothing better than artists’
flake-white, well rubbed into the
canvas with a stiff hogs-hair brush.
Two or three coats may be used,
each rubbed in thinly. Inquire for a
prepared dressing at any art-material
shop.
* * * *
What did the term “emancipist”
signify in early New South Wales ?
It was applied to men who had
been convicts but had regained their
freedom, either by pardon or expira-
tion of sentence. Phillip was
instructed to grant 30 acres of land
to each emancipist, with a further
grant if he were married, but as the
results of this munificence often
proved unsatisfactory it was later
only made applicable to men who
had accumulated a little capital.
Macquarie encouraged the emanci-
pists’ social ambitions by appointing
them to his official positions, and
extending an invitation to his private
table and society. This antagonised
the military officers, who were the
centre of social life in the colony,
and for a number of years feeling
was very high over the matter. Those
who opposed the admission of the
emancipists to full civic-rights were
termed “exclusionists” or “free
settlers.”
* * * *
What diseases infest gladioli, and
how can they be overcome?
Gladioli are subject to soft-rot,
hard-rot and scab. For the two
former there is no known cure, but
scab may be checked by dipping the
bulbs about 15min. in a solution
made up of half-a-pint of formalin
to 12gal. of water,, or by soaking for
20min. in a solution made up of
15grs. of bichloride-of-mercury to a
gallon of water. Scab is brought
about by a number of causes, the
principal being freshly-manured
ground or the breaking of the plants
by strong winds. Should the latter
be the case, lift the bulbs immedi-
ately (even if only half-grown), and,
after placing in one of the above
solutions, dry and put away until
next planting-time,
♦ * * *
What is the cause of freckles?
Can they be removed?
Facial freckles are due to an
increase in the natural pigment-
matter in the skin. Excess of iron
in diet tends to aggravate the trouble.
Upon exposure to direct sunlight,
the pigment coloration is influenced
by chemically-active rays; fair com-
plexions are especially susceptible to
their action. Apart from the neces-
sary protection, use a lotion of equal-
parts lemon-juice, glycerine and
orange-flower-water as a bleach.
Dab over the freckled-area daily,
after bathing the face with tepid
oatmeal-water. If trouble persists,
either a peroxide- or mercurial-cream
may be used at night—the latter must
be applied sparingly if the skin is
sensitive. Calamine-lotion is a useful
covering-liquid for day-application;
it also serves as a protective when
exposed to weather extremes.
* * * *
What were the "Port Phillip" gold-
pieces ?
They are gold coins struck in Vic-
toria in 1853. On the obverse of the
design are the words “Port Phillip,
Australia” incised upon a broad rim,
which is in relief. The date is placed
under a kangaroo. On the reverse
are the words “Pure Australian
Gold,” with the weights in words and
numerals of the various pieces
struck —ioz., £oz., loz. or 2oz. It
was intended that these pieces should
pass current locally at £l, £2, £4 and
£8; but by the time the machinery
was in working-order gold was
fetching £4 4s. an ounce, and English
sovereigns were plentiful. The local
currency was therefore abandoned.
It is probable that only a single set
was ever issued in Victoria, but
replicas have been made from original
dies for museum purposes.
* * * •
How did the term "blue-stocking”
come to be associated with the higher
education of women ?
The expression originated with the
evening-parties held about 1750 in
the homes of three women of culture
and intelligence, Mesdames Vesey,
Ord and Montagu, who endeavored to
substitute a more intellectual recrea-
tion for that of card-playing, then the
principal diversion. Eminent men-of-
letters attended and took part in
literary discussions at these gatherings,
and, the dress being informal, many
wore colored stockings in lieu of
black. Among them was Benjamin
Stillingfleet, who habitually appeared
in blue worsted—thereby leading to
the expression “Blue-stocking
Society” being applied to the coteries.
Boswell, among others, has given an
account of these clubs. The term
later came to be applied to
women of intellectual or scholastic
attainments.
* * * *
What is the story of the Franken-
stein monster?
Frankenstein, or the Modern
Prometheus is a tale of horror by
Mary Godwin, daughter of Mary
Wollstonecraft and wife of the poet
Shelley, at whose suggestion it was
written. It deals with a science-
student who constructed the
semblance of a human-being from
portions of bodies collected in
churchyards. The creature was given
life, was endowed with supernatural
strength, and was revolting in appear-
ance, inspiring loathing in whoever
saw it. Made intensely unhappy on
this account, it conceived a hatred
for its creator, and took its revenge
by slaying Frankenstein’s nearest and
dearest. It also pursued Frankenstein
through various lands, finally destroy-
ing him in the Arctic regions.
* * * *
What were the first newspapers
published in Melbourne ?
The first newspaper, the Melbourne
“Advertiser,” was issued in March,
1838, numbers one to nine being
published in manuscript. Each issue
was probably limited to about a
dozen copies, and very few of these
are extant. Number 10 and a few
later numbers were printed, but as
the paper was not licensed it was
suppressed by order of the com-
mandant. The first authorised news-
paper printed in Victoria was the
“Port Phillip Gazette,” which Arzen
and Strode began to publish on
October 27, 1838. Early in 1839
John Pascoe Fawkner obtained a
licence, and on February 6 reissued
the “Advertiser” under the title of
the “Port Phillip Patriot and
Melbourne Advertiser."
Brief Answers
D.H.: Mentioned in Story of Aus-
tralian Art in connection with the
early steps taken in etchings: “A
set of ‘Twenty Scenes from the
Works of Dickens,’ etched by
Christopher J. Coveny [no “e”] in
1883, attracted some attention . . .”
No other information available....
L.R.D.: Paint a picture in oil-colors
on a sheet of glass. Place paper
over the picture and apply pressure
by rubbing with handle of spoon or
burnisher. Different papers produce
different effects. Try several; thin
cartridge-paper is quite effective. If
necessary, thin the oil-paint with a
touch of kerosene... .G.S.S.: (1)
Until recently on Lord Howe Island
a bonus of 4d. per tail was paid for
rats’-tails. Interest in collecting
tails has waned and only trivial
amounts have been paid for several
years. Because of this position, the
Lord Howe Island Board, on the
suggestion of the Island Committee,
suspended the bonus-payments and
in lieu is meeting the purchase-cost
of a poison to be used in a drive
against the rats being undertaken by
local residents. Fifty-pounds’-worth
of poison is being sent to the island
for this purpose. (2) Palm-seed
exported during the year ended
December 31, 1954, amounted to 384
bushels. (3) A collection-rate varying
from 12s. 6d. to 255. per bushel is
paid by the board to seed-collectors —
the rate varies according to the type
of seed. (4) At present there is no
proposal under consideration to
erect a Government guesthouse
F.R.8.: “When truth embodied in a
tale Shall enter in at lowly doors”
is from Tennyson’s elegy to his
friend Arthur Hallam (1811-33), “In
Memoriam,” XXXVI R.C.T • (1)
lan Gilmour. (2) “Weighing the
Fleece” was purchased by Sir
Baldwin Spencer from the artist,
and is now in the possession of Mr.
and Mrs. Clive Rowan, of Victoria—
Mrs. Rowan is Sir Baldwin’s
daughter. Reproductions have no
value as works of art; a signed
copy may have some small value.
No exact sum can be given
W.F.C.: Use water-glass (potassium-
or sodium-silicate) and gelatin. For
tinting: water-soluble aniline-colors
or ordinary watercolor paints.
Gelatin solution: not too thick
(uneven or lumpy on the glass); a
non-drying material such as glycerine
added to prevent cracking. Globes:
clean and free from grease before
dipping. Materials from any paint-
shop or supplier of artists’-materials.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on dll
MSS. No liability is undertaken ro
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.S.: Too much an echo of A. B.
(“Banjo”) Paterson J.W.: High-
jinks on Corunna Downs not for us.
....D.8.: Let us hear from you
again when you are a few years
older W.F.: If you were as
“painfully aware” as all that of
“their shortcomings,” one wonders
why you sent them forth... .P.E.:
No anchorage in The Bulletin for
that craft MJ.: We have had
our fill of “wild winds howling” this
week, thank you S.G.McD.:
Little boys who torture kittens are
strictly banned from our pages
J.McL.: We silenced the voice in the
kitchen... .A.S.McL.: It didn’t stand
a chance D.F.H.: It went out
with the ebb-tide 8.C.8.: Still too
fragmentary... .A.H.L.: Tour lines
of your epic:—
Now that pubs at ten are closing,
Froth that glistens amber-white,
Flows o’er the brim in icy fingers
All through the merry night.
R.E.: Can’t print, but glad that
“The Crisis” is 0ver....R.C.: Too
many poets of late are climbing
Everest... .F.C.8.: It cheered us to
learn that:—
Australia stands
Strong as the granite crags beneath our
skies—
A virile nation envisaged by prophetic
eyes.
C.J.A.: Also cheered to receive
the news that “slowly but surely the
sun is creeping back from northern
parts to Australia’s great outback.”
D.E.: Having read “The Frighten-
ing Years,” the Religious Editor still
has the shakes J.S.K.: Don’t take
it to heart. When one is young one
often writes like that R.W.Y.:
Those “eyes red-glaring in the silent
black” sent us racing out for a
stimulant J.V.S.: Don’t tell us
that you are another young poet who
has been jilted by his girl-friend?


N.S.W. Railways Notch Their Hundred!
Centenary for the Iron Horse
By M. F. DIXON
IT will be 100 years on Sep-
tember 26 since the first rail-
way-line was opened in New
South Wales —14 miles of
single track from a point about
midway between what is now
Sydney’s Central station and
Redfem station to Parramatta
Junction, at Granville, near
“The Dogtrap,” where Wood-
ville-road crosses the present
railway-line.
The first sod of this line was
turned on July 3, 1850, after
more than four years of agita-
tion by a group of enterprising
citizens to have the work under-
taken.
The actual turning of the sod
marked the beginning of the first
railway-project in Australia, but
Victoria beat New South Wales
to the distinction of running the
first steam-traction train by
opening a track linking
Melbourne and . Sandgate (Port
Melbourne) on September 15,
1854.
The first line (for steam trac-
tion) in South Australia was
opened a year after N.S.W.it
linked Adelaide and Port
Adelaide. Queensland did not
take the plunge until 1865, when
a line was opened between
Ipswich and Bigge’s Camp (later
Grandchester). Western Aus-
tralia and Tasmania were six
years later 'in getting their
railway-systems going.
In January, 1846, a group of
citizens met in Sydney to discuss
ways and means of introducing
railways to Australia. Twenty-
one years earlier George
Stephenson had inaugurated, in
England, the first public
passenger-carrying railway in
the world, from Brusselton to
Stockton.
James Macarthur, of Camden,
was chairman of the Sydney
meeting, at which it was decided
to invite public subscriptions to
cover the cost of surveying a
line from Sydney to Goulbum.
The contract was let to Lieut.
Moore, who took nearly two
years to prepare his drawings.
In the meantime, in 1848, Earl
Grey, Secretary of State for the
Colonies, recommended to the
Governor the adoption of a
uniform gauge of 4ft. Biin.
The New South Wales Legis-
lative Council passed several
resolutions favoring the proposal
of the Sydney meeting, and the
Government then agreed to sub-
sidise the money raised by public
subscription to carry out the
survey. A company was formed
with a capital of £lOO,OOO in £5
shares, and Charles Cowper,
regarded by many people as the
“father of the Australian rail-
ways,” was elected chairman.
The city surveyor, Shields, was
appointed engineer to the com-
pany, and it Was at his instigation
that the Government put through
a bill fixing the gauge at sft. 3in.
This was really the beginning of
the “gauge”-battle which was to
prove such a costly experiment to
Australia ; the State variations,
of course, still handicap our
transportation-system.
When Shields retired in 1853,
his successor, Wallace, persuaded
the authorities to revert to the
4ft. Byin. gauge, eventually
accepted as standard for N.S.W.,
despite a strong attempt by
Wallace’s successor, John
Whitton, in 1857, to return to
the wider gauge.
The settlement of the gauge
problem, however, did not
materially hasten the expansion
of the railway-system. The
colony was passing through a
depressed period, and at times
Charles Cowper, as head of the
company behind the project,
despaired. In a letter to his
brother, the Rev. Dean Cowper,
he set down his feelings in plain
terms:
“Your zealous men are gener-
ally so impetuous,” he wrote,
“and your prudent men so timid
and chicken-hearted that,
although we have a most respect-
able body of men united
together, we seem to be making
very little progress.”
The Government had told the
company that as soon as it
deposited £lO,OOO with the
Treasury it could proceed with
the building of the line from
Sydney to Parramatta. Plans
were therefore made for the
turning of the first sod on July
3, 1850, at a spot where the
“fly-over” crossings for the
suburban electric-trains are now
located.
It was a cold, wet day, but the
people were so enthusiastic about
the undertaking that fully 10,000
turned out for the occasion. The
ceremony was performed by the
Hon. Mrs. Keith Stewart,
daughter of the Governor-in-
Chief of the Colony, Sir Charles
Augustus Fitz Roy.
It was not until March of the
following year that the £ 10,000-
tender of one Wallis was
accepted for building 4j miles
of line from Haslam’s Creek
(Rookwood) towards Sydney.
Work was begun almost
immediately, but the discovery
of gold in the Bathurst district
about the same time robbed the
contractor of practically all his
labor, and those who remained
demanded greatly increased
wages. Wallis, in turn, was given
a 30 per cent, increase in his
contract-price, and was also
granted an extension of time.
Despite these concessions, he
later had to be released from
his contract.
Soon afterwards another con-
tractor, Randle, undertook to
build a portion of the line
between Cleveland Paddock and
Ashfield, but he, too, had to
give up through shortage of
labor, and the company then, in
desperation, persuaded the Gov-
ernment to bring 500 navvies
from England to complete the
work.
The men arrived in August,
1853, and the contractor put
them to work immediately ; but
another difficulty soon loomed—
the company’s funds ran out,
and it had to appeal to ths Gov-
ernment for help.
The Government made
£150,000 available ; also it took
over portion of the contract, but
it, too, soon found itself in
trouble. Solution was to set up
a joint board, consisting of its
own nominees and representa-
tives of the company, to control
the venture.
The company then increased
its capital by another £lOO,OOO,
and the Government provided
still further financial help. Costs
went on rising, however. The
estimate for building the Sydney-
Parramatta line in 1853 was
£218,420; the ultimate cost was
well over £400,000.
In fact, one reference in the
Colonial Secretary’s papers in
the Mitchell Library says the
Sydney-Parramatta junction-line,
of slightly under 14 miles, cost
more than six times as much as
the shareholders were originally
told it would take to build a line
from Sydney to Goulburn, 130
miles!
The Sydney-Parramatta line
eventually to be relaid at a
cost of nearly £70,000 ; final cost
per mile was not less than
£50,000. History has repeated
itself in many railway-lines built
since then.
The company, which origin-
ally undertook the building of
the line, finally became so hope-
lessly bogged-down with costs
that the Government had to take
over all its assets and liabilities.
The Government deciding to
vest control of the railways in
three commissioners, equip-
ment for the almost-completed
line to Parramatta was imported
from England—four 33-ton loco-
motives and a number of horse-
boxes, open and covered wagons
and stock-vans.
Wooden rails were used in the
early construction-work; they
quickly wore out and eventually
were capped with iron-plate. The
day of these ended when iron
rails arrived from England in
1853.
The opening-day for the line,
September 26, 1855, was pro-
claimed a public-holiday. Like
the day on which the first sod
was turned, it was wet and
gloomy, but the biggest assemb-
lage thus far in N.S.W. turned
out to see the official train leave
the Sydney station.
It consisted of two first-class
carriages, four second-class and
five third-class. The Governor-
General, Sir William Denison,
travelled in the first carriage.
Fares were 4s. first-class, 3s.
second-class, 2s. third-class.
The rush to get aboard was
so great that many of the invited
distinguished had to scramble
through the windows.
The train took 45 minutes to
make the trip; it carried, in all,
3554 passengers.
At the official luncheon, held
at William’s Family Hotel, Parra-
matta, the Governor-General
said: “I have great faith in the
future of the iron horse.”
That same night, at a gather-
ing of the locals in the Red
Cow Inn at Redfern, other senti-
ments were expressed. A burly
bullocky, Jack Beaver, is
recorded as saying that “iron
horses were agin Nature ; and if
the building of railways went on,
the day would come when horses
and bullocks wouldn’t be worth
the price of their hides.” Rail-
ways were a “hazard to life and
limb,” he told his audience (no
doubt, loud applause).
Probably because of the diffi-
culties which had attended the
building of the first short line,
further expansion of the railways
in New South Wales was slow.
Liverpool was linked with Syd-
ney in 1856; but the line was
not extended to Goulbum until
1869. The western line to Pen-
rith was opened in 1863, but did
not reach Bathurst until 1876.
The northern line did not extend
past Strathfield until 1886,
though the line from Newcastle
to Singleton was opened in
1863. Newcastle and East Mait-
land were linked by rail as early
as 1857.
The first railway-bridge over
the Hawkesbury River was
opened for traffic in 1889 ; direct
rail - communication between
Sydney and Newcastle dates
from that year. The South Coast
line, Sydney to Kiama, was
opened in 1887.
By the end of 1864, the total
mileage open in N.S.W. was 143
and the annual mileage-run was
about 165,000. Today more than
6000 miles of line are in use and
the annual mileage-run is about
44,000,000.
In 1858 the staff totalled about
200 ; by 1864, it had grown to
400; today,, it is about 60,000
and the cry is for still more.
Tasmania Preserves a Historic Home
NARRYNA FOLK MUSEUM
By AMY ROWNTREE
JT\ NOTHER of the few old
f \ homes belatedly being
I preserved from the
spoilers is Narryna, on
Hampden-road, Hobart. And it
is to be Australia’s first Folk
Museum.
It is fitting that the house
selected for this purpose should
stand on a part of the 30 acres
granted to the Rev. Robert
Knopwood in 1804, and that
it should be in the old-world
suburb of Battery Point. It was
built by Captain Andrew Haig
during the years 1835-6.
Haig’s first visit to Van
Diemen’s Land was in 1826,
when he arrived in his own little
vessel, Snipe. Attracted by the
beauty and the prosperity of the
colony, he then bought a strip of
the Knopwood farm.
For seven more years Haig
sailed the seas, saving and plan-
ning for his dream-home.
The “Hobart Town Courier”
of August 30, 1833, a trifle sourly
commented:
“We are glad to hear that Cap-
tain Haig, who has returned to
the colony in the Sir John Rae
Reid, is about immediately to
improve and will erect a suitable
building on his allotment, which
has so long in its neglected state
been a disgrace to the improving
neighborhood of Battery Point.”
Haig built a handsome stone
warehouse and there he set up
as a shipping-agent.
There are indications that
his taste was beyond his
means, and that he waged a more
successful battle against the
winds and waves than in that
of commercial competition, and
in 1842 his dream home was
offered for sale. Macmichael, the
auctioneer, secured it for £l7OO.
The house is built mainly of
the glowing red brick of the
period, but the dignified facade
is of dressed stone, said to have
been brought from Scotland. It
stands well back behind trees and
lawns, girt by a stone wall which
is topped by an iron fence. The
massive 6ft. pillars supporting
the iron gates have been hewn
from a single piece of stone.
The slate roof, Georgian door-
way, pleasant entrance-hall and
main staircase are all in good
repair, as are also the many-
paned windows and folding
shutters. There are eight large
rooms in the main block' and
four in the servants’-wing.
Haig was one of the men who
worked to secure St. George’s
Church for Battery Point. Dur-
ing his residence in the colony he
was a marine-surveyor for
Lloyds of London. When a
change of surveyor was sug-
gested, 50 Hobart Town mer-
chants forwarded a petition to
Lloyds asking that Haig’s ser-
vices be retained and speaking
in the highest terms of his “atten-
tion and carefulness.” For some
years he was manager of a ship-
building company, with yards on
Battery Point. He died in Crom-
well-street in 1871 under the
shadow of the church he had
helped to erect.
The Tasmanian Government
now owns the property and pro-
poses to spend generously in
restorations and in fitting-up the
caretaker’s quarters and the
coffee-room.
Eight trustees, to whom the
home will be leased, have been
appointed. The Folk Museum
is to form a permanent memorial
to the men and women pioneers.
The trustees feel that it repre-
sents the beginning of a move-
ment that will spread through-
out Tasmania as the National
Trust has spread through
England.
Tasmanian Education Department Photo.
Not all of them demolished . . .


NOW OPEN
AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
l2 months
4% . . s . . 9 months
3f%. .!!! 6 months
3J%. . . . ; 3 months
LONG TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
6i%
o 10 & 15 years
6%. . . . 4 to 9 years
5}% ...... 3 years
5% 2 years
Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES,
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
ltd.
son^ W S °UTH WALES VICTORIA QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA - WESTERN AUSTRALIA - TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
IAC-C
Missing Friend
WOULD anybody knowing tie present
whereabouts of THELMA ELIZABETH
EADE (formerly JAMES), please com-
municate with J. McNEILL SIMPSON,
Solicitor, Hay, N.S.W.?
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
AXiDAN MURRAY PTX. LTD.,
Maloney St., Mascot.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
mam
Ettabliihed 1808 in Reign d|
George ///.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
NJ3.W. Branch:
g Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
t Sporting Notions
YOUR SHOUT/
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Tattersall’s Club will stage at
Randwick this coming Saturday
what looks like being the most
keenly contested Chelmsford
Stakes for some seasons. Prince
Cortauld, winner of this race
last spring from Lindbergh, and
Advocate, could repeat the per-
formance. He is in the right
racing condition to do so.
• • >
Two weeks ago Prince
Cortauld led most of the way
and narrowly defeated New
Zealand’s champion, Somerset
Fair, and Advocate. At time of
writing, all three are engaged in
the Chelmsford. Others in the
entry-list include Ray Ribbon,
Gold Scheme, Swift Gold 11,
Electro, Prince Morvi and
Persian Link. However, main
interest will centre in the second
clash between Prince Cortauld
and Somerset Fair; on their
fine Warwick Farm performance
there’s little between them.
The Chelmsford is a weight-
for-age contest run over nine
furlongs under penalty and
allowance conditions. New
Zealander Limerick won the
race three times, on the first
occasion (1926) defeating two
crack stayers of the period,
Windbag and Rapine. Last-
named won the Chelmsford in
1923 and Windbag in 1925.
Phar Lap, Ammon Ra, Beau-
ford, Defaulter, Rogilla, Royal
Chief, Beaulivre, Beau Vite and
Gold Rod were other winners of
the race, most of them N.Z.-
bred. Delta was successful on
three occasions (1950-51-52),
and his 1.49| in the last-named
year is still the Australian record
for nine furlongs.
Randwick racegoers on Satur-
day will pay close attention to
performances by horses engaged
in the Tramway Handicap and
the Spring Handicap; both
fields will include prominent
candidates for the A.J.C. spring
double. Last year Connaught,
narrowly beaten in the Tramway
by Bronze Peak, won the Epsom
from Prince Cortauld, who had
easily won the Chelmsford.
Winners of the Tramway-
Epsom double in recent years
have been High Law (1952);
De La Salle (1948); Shannon
(1945) . .
As a guide to A.J.C. Dprby
chances the Canterbury Guirieas
wasn’t of much value. In the
first place it was too much of a
rough - and - tumble affair, in
which the chief sufferers were
Teranyan, Kingster, Landy and
Tranquil Lass, while in the final
few yards Knave shifted out
sharply. Also, the course itself
isn’t suitable to stayers. There
are too many turns for long
striders, and maybe it would be
best to wait for the running of
the Rosehill Guineas before
selecting likely Derby aspirants.
Teranyan got into all the
bother about the place in the
Guineas, and his connections
are well justified in trying him
again at Rosehill. Actually,
Knave’s run was the most
impressive of the Derby hopes.
Guineas winner Aboukir, a
smart galloper, was suited by
the Canterbury turns, and he
was expertly handled by Jack
Thompson. Cara n n a came
home with a burst too late to
trouble the winner, though he
got close to him on the winning-
line.
In winning Saturday’s Canter-
bury Handicap Ace Pilot indi-
cated that he will be a strong
contender for the Metrop., in
which he has 7.12 ; he won with
31b. more than that at'the sub-
urban track.
Five of the 12 starters in the
Canterbury Stakes (six furlongs ;
w.f.a. with allowances) had
strong backing, but there was
only one in the race from the
start. Carrying the colors of the
A.J.C. chairman A. G. Potter,
Star Realm, a real speedster,
shot to the front as soon as the
starting-gates opened, and
Thompson kept up the pressure
so strongly that the winner had
four lengths to spare at the finish.
His time, 1.1 U, equalled the
course-record held by Beaulivre
and Humming Top. The Star
Kingdom colt is regarded by
Thompson as one of the fastest
horses he has ever ridden. Vali-
care, one of the fastest and best-
performed fillies of her time, is
included in the colt’s family-
lines, and his pedigree also in-
cludes stayers Maikai and
Artilleryman.
Grey galloper Magic Carpet
11, a New Zealand-bred four-
year-old horse by Pherozshah
(imp.), had a brilliant success in
the Canterbury Welter. He came
with a great run from the home-
turn, after punters, who made
him a 5-to-4 favorite, had
visions of having to tear up
their tickets. He was weighted
at 7.9 for the Epsom.
Trainer H. Wolters turned
three-year-old Magic Nib out in
fine fettle to win the First
Warriston Handicap at Caulfield
on Saturday, and the son of
Gold Nib (imp.) now enters the
fist of A.J.C. and Victoria Derby
prospects. The colt was ridden
by Reg Heather, back one week
from Ceylon. Magic Nib is
raced by W. Balloch. A 750gns.
yearling, he is descended from a
half-sister to the dam of Hurry
On, champion English galloper
and sire. He also has the neces-
sary breeding background to
give him a classic chance, as he
is from Happy Issue (imp.) by
Coup de Lyon from Early Doors
by Call Boy. Last autumn he
ran third to Knave in the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes.
In finishing third at Caulfield
to The Orb and Baroda Beam
over the 10 furlongs of the
Heatherlie Handicap, Sydney
galloper Connaught drew atten-
tion to his Caulfield Cup pros-
pects. In that mile-and-a-half,
to be run on October 15, Con-
naught has 8.10. Saturday’s
run was his first Melbourne
outing this season, but he likes
the Victorian way round. He
came home strongly.
In Caulfield’s Memsie Stakes
(w.f.a.), run at a muddling pace
and on a heavy track, Cop-
pice repeated his victory over
Cromis in the same event last
year. Coppice opened up an
unbeatable lead shortly after
entering the straight; there was
no semblance of a fluke in his
win. Arlunya, on trial for the
A.J.C. Derby, shaped badly
enough to cause a change of
plans; he will remain in Mel-
bourne. In finishing fourth
Rising Fast indicated that he is
getting back to form.
Newcastle’s Cup went to
Triatic, leading most of the way
and escaping trouble which
didn’t assist the prospects of the
favorite, Regal Glitter. Triatic
was ridden by a 17-year-old
apprentice, W. Pankhurst, now
apprenticed to Randwick trainer
Jack Green.
* * *
The first signs of spring were
visible in the keenly-contested
racing at Harold Park trots on
Friday night, and most impres-
sive were the wins of Tantalus
and Merry Bar. A flighty little
chestnut, Tantalus is by Dillala,
a winning son of Globe Derby,
out of a Jack Potts mare, Pottery
Mountain. Sure to be in the
winning-list again soon, Red
Slipper is out of the same mare.
Tantalus works himself into a
sweat before his races, and,
dancing from the mark, often
gives enormous starts. In his
Qualifying he gave his oppon-
ents 60yds. self-imposed start,
but gathered them and swept to
the front to win like the
champion he promises to be.
Trainer, driver and part-owner
of Merry Bar, J. C. McCall is a
baker. He runs his business with
the help of his sons, who lend a
hand with the horses when
work’s over; his daughter has
the other half-share in Merry
Bar. Though not long in the
game, McCall has shown the
know-how of a veteran: first in
persevering with Dusty Doolan,
with whom he tallied a string
of wins; then in his recent pur-
chase of Merry Bar. Solid
enough to do a run in the bread-
cart, Merry Bar is by the Gold
Bar sire, Fire Bar, out of a Lawn
Derby mare, Merry Maid. With
a mile-gait of 2.8-f, Merry Bar
ran the fastest time of the night.
McCall is confident of taking
the Cowra Cup with Merry Bar ;
asserts he hasn’t yet reached his
top. He’s one to watch for in
bigger things.
In mud and slush, conditions
thought to have suited Colling-
wood, Melbourne beat ’Wood by
11 points in the second V.F.L.
semi-final (8.8-6.9). There were
59,000 at the game. It was even
going, with both sides having an
equal run of the play. Mel-
bourne’s defenders, who’ve been
extra-solid all through the
season, were rocklike, and were
the decisive factor in victory.
Melbourne was, however, more
purposeful in attack, too ; out-
standing in this was rover Stuart
Spencer, who kicked five goals
and generally played splendidly.
The Demons now go into the
grand-final, to play the winner
of Saturday’s Geelong v.
Collingwood.
It was even-slogging in a
scoreless first half and anyone’s
match to the last 12 minutes,
when the All Blacks scored their
points to beat the touring
Aussies 8-0 in the Second Rugby
Union Test on Saturday. A
try that could have given the
tourists the lead —and the match
—was stopped short by a dis-
puted forward-pass ruling. Two
up now, the Enzedders can’t lose
the series.
University goes in to the final
of Sydney’s Union comp, for its
16-8 win over Gordon in Satur-
day’s semi. Bullied-about to be
down 3-8 at “lemons,” the Uni.
boys gave the ball too much air
for their opponents in the second
half and tallied 13 points. With
Gordon to meet Easts in next
week’s final, the teams may yet
meet in the decider.
* * *
It was footbrawl for a while
at Sydney Cricket Ground, when
Newtown beat St. George 11-8
in the second Rugby League
semi-final. What football was
played was of a doubtful qual-
ity ; infringements, and penalties
therefore, were legion. Newtown,
noted for its defence, stood up on
St. George all through; still, the
Saints “bombed” several tries,
and should have won. Newtown
scored the only try. Now
it’s St. George to meet South
Sydney, which won the first
semi-final, the winner of that
to play off with Newtown for the
title.
Don Murdoch has been South
Sydney Rugby League reserve-
grade fullback since 1948,
but has never been promoted
to be regular first-grade
fullback. That’s because Test-
captain Clive Churchill has
been with Souths for the same
period, and Murdoch has only
played in the firsts when Chur-
chill’s been injured or away with
a rep. side. (He’s been a capable
substitute, always.) With Chur-
chill out injured now, Murdoch’s
a key man in the Rabbit-ohs’
quest for their fifth crown in six
years. #
* * #
South Africa beat Australia
3-0 in the first Soccer Test in
Brisbane, after leading 2-0 at
half-time. Australia’s team,
rearranged into new combina-
tions and permutations, was
makeshift, and looked it. The
Springboks are very good if not
really brilliant; but they’re not
“drawing” as did the Austrians
and Chinese. Perhaps it was a
mistake to bring them out so
soon after the others.
* * *
To reach the final of the
Avondale Bowl, visiting British
woman golfer Veronica Anstey
holed in one at the seventeenth
to snatch victory from Aus-
tralian June Gillespie. In the
final Miss Anstey lost to fellow-
countrywoman Jeanette Robert-
son 2 and X-
With a record card of 73, 16-
year-old Kevin Donohoe won
the N.S.W. Schoolboys’ Golf
Championship. Playing on the
6646yd5. Pymble -course, Don-
ohoe went out in 39 and covered
the last nine in 34 (one under
par). Donohoe won from about
140 other competitors whose
ages ranged from 11 to 17.


There Were Three In Canberra
Some Women are Ladies
By C. McNEIL
SOME time ago the chief
sub-editor on a big
morning-newspaper waved
some copy at a new
reporter.
“Look here, old boy,” he said,
“you say in this that a ‘seventy-
five-year-old lady won the
national award for needlework.’
Remember this —as far as news-
papers go all ladies are women,
but not all women are ladies.
So always call ’em women.”
In the few years since, the
reporter has written about a lot
of women; three, in particular,
he’d classify as ladies.
A/fRS. EVDOKIA PETROV,
it turned out, when the
Petrov Royal Commission
opened in Canberra on May 17
last year, was an expert cipher-
clerk and a captain in the M.V.D.
The reporter had no way of
knowing that as he walked
through the gates of the yellow-
brick Russian Embassy in Can-
berra about a month earlier,
on April 14.
The reporter rang the doorbell
and waited, noting the optical-
glass spy-hole in the door.
He knew that Mrs. Petrov was
at the Embassy, but, of course,
it would be impossible to get
in and see her. He was just
giving it a go.
He would ask if he could see
the Ambassador, Generalov, and
when he was refused permission
he could go back to his desk in
the press-gallery and do a story,
of sorts: “The Embassy has
become a little Kremlin. . . .”
A short, solid Russian opened
the door. The reporter started
talking hard.
“I was speaking to Mr. Gen-
eralov on the phone last night,”
he said. “We spoke of the dis-
appearance of Mr. Petrov, and
I think Mr. Generalov would
like to talk to me some more.”
The first part of this was cer-
tainly truth Generalov had
talked to the reporter the night
before by phone about half-an-
hour after Mr. Menzies’s shock
announcement of Petrov’s
defection. Generalov had been
caught on the hop because the
Government had given him no
notification, and he had not been
listening to Parliament on the
radio. It was doubtful that he
would want to talk to any
reporter any more.
“You wait,” said the Russian,
and he went inside.
The reporter waited. He
looked over the close-clipped
cypress-hedge to the big modem
Hotel Kingston across the road.
Some of the drinkers were look-
ing at the Embassy, for in less
than 24 hours it had become a
major show-place. Cars passed
slowly, with faces framed in the
windows. Some newsreel-men
had set up shop in the Nature-
strip in the middle of the
road. . .
The Russian came back to the
door, and the reporter, a little
shaken, found himself being
ushered into the big entrance
foyer of the Embassy. An official
showed him to a sofa, and then
stood near, watching over him.
Molotov and Stalin frowned
down from their frames on either
wall.
Away in the distance at the
far end of the foyer was a big
desk, and behind it sat a well-
dressed, hornrimmed Russian
working an abacus.
In the 20 minutes that passed
about a dozen Russian heads
popped out of doorways in a
hall leading from the foyer,
studied the reporter, and then
popped back again.
A tall Russian approached and
proved to be Kharikovetz, the
Press-Attache. He led the
reporter into another room and
introduced him to Generalov,
the Ambassador.
There was a small round
veneer-topped table in the room
with four heavy armchairs
around it, practically touching
each other.
They sat down, leaving one
chair empty, and Generalov, in
halting English, began.
All these stories from
beginning to end were nonsense
. . . reasonable people could
understand . . . there was no
foundation for the rumors that
Petrov had defected ... it was
difficult for him to explain what
the reason was for all the pro-
vocation.
“Mrs. Petrov, has she elected
to stay here?” the reporter
asked.
“Oh, that is true,” said
Generalov.
The reporter opened his mouth
to ask another question, but the
Ambassador was saying that he
had said all he was going to.
It occurred to the reporter to
ask if he could see Mrs. Petrov.
They could only say no. They
couldn’t shoot you for asking—
or could they?
“Could I talk with Mrs.
Petrov for a moment?” he said.
Kharikovetz looked at Gen-
eralov, and they talked rapidly
for a time in Russian, and at
last came to a conclusion.
With a smile, Generalov said
“Yes.”
Kharikovetz picked up the
phone and spoke in Russian,
and about a minute later the
door opened.
A newly lit cigarette trembled
in her fingers. Her eyes were
misty. She looked from one face
to the other. Generalov indicated
the remaining armchair and they
all sat down again, Mrs. Petrov
on the reporter’s left.
The reporter’s first question
was: “Are you staying here of
your own free will?”
He was looking at Mrs.
Petrov, but he could see the
attache stiffen. It was evident
the question was not considered
in good taste.
“Yes,” said Mrs. Petrov.
“And what do you think about
your husband’s disappearance?”
the reporter asked her.
She said it was difficult to
speak now ... she did not
believe her husband would go
to Australia like that ... he
wouldn’t do that himself ... she
thought he was kidnapped . . .
otherwise he would have wanted
to speak to the Embassy ... he
would have tried to get in touch
with her ... he wouldn’t leave
her because they had married
each other.
Generalov rose and said
“Thank-you” . . . and that was
that.
As he left the room the
reporter told Mrs. Petrov, “I
hope everything works out all
right for you.”
The days passed, and it be-
came obvious that things could
not have been worse for her.
She was held prisoner at the
Embassy. When she eventually
left there she was sandwiched
between two hulking Russian
couriers in a big black Zis sedan
on white-walled tyres that
screamed with diplomatic
immunity out of Canberra’s 30
m.p.h. limits.
High over the still land she
wept in the dark that night, and
in the morning when the sun
came up at Darwin, she said
she wanted to stay.
She may have lost a shoe in
that yelling mob at Mascot, but
she acted like a lady all the way.
TN Commonwealth - avenue,
Canberra, close to the Albert
Hall, there is a Nature-strip in
the middle of the road. At its
point nearest Sydney this grass-
patch divides the traffic coming
from and going to Civic Centre.
Only grass shows now on the
point of the traffic-island, but
there once was a lady fixed there
on a solid block of masonry.
She had done point-duty there
for 20 years. Motorists from
Sydney, hopelessly lost in the
labyrinth which serves the
Federal capital for streets, were
cheered immensely by the sight
of her. She really socked you in
the eye.
She wore a grim helmet with
a skull in its crest. She wore
nothing else, as far as you could
see, as the masonry-block took
over at her midriff. She had
heroic proportions. She was
Bellona, the Goddess of War.
That was two Februarys ago.
The Queen and Duke of Edin-
burgh were coming to Canberra,
and officials had everything
“Do sit down , lovey , your blood's a bit thin yet."
planned to the second. The vari-
able thing in their plans was
Bellona.
Mostly, she was just a piece of
bronze, beautiful with ageing in
the weather.
But sometimes, well, there
were parties and things, the wine
flowed. Maybe it was a celebra-
tion, and some wag would bring
up the subject of the goddess.
There would be talk, chuckles
and people stealing out into the
night towards Commonwealth-
avenue.
Next morning, early bus-
travellers would see Bellona
wearing a blouse, a singlet, or a
brassiere. Sometimes she might
have spots of paint here and
there. t
Since she was placed in Com-
monwealth-avenue, more than
20 years before, Bellona had
been part of many notable
practical-jokes.
She was variable, all right, and
the officials worried what she
might perpetrate in honor of
the Royal Visit. The Royal Pro-
gress was scheduled to pass
within a few feet of Bellona.
Reports began leaking out that
officials had ordered the removal
of Bellona. The response from
Canberra’s art-circles was im-
mediate and vehement, but the
letters to the editors were only
half-finished when there was an
official denial of the whole thing.
It went after this fashion:
“No, we weren’t going to
remove Bellona. At least, we
weren’t going to move her be-
cause the Queen is coming here.
Bellona is going to be removed
eventually, of course, to her
rightful place in the War
Museum —but that won’t be for
a while yet. The Queen will see
her.”
The art-circles put down their
pens, having, they thought,' won
a bloodless, even inkless, battle.
The prudes had struck their
colors.
This announcement that
Bellona would stay came fairly
late one Wednesday afternoon.
On the Thursday morning an
officer of the Department of the
Interior, which did its best to
control Bellona, was on his way
to work a little earlier than usual.
He was stunned to see a group
of workmen digging around
Bellona’s foundations and lifting
her.
The officer rtished to a phone
and got on to the Department
of Works. He told them that
Bellona was to stay —didn’t they
know that?
They didn’t, but immediately
dispatched some officers to save
her.
The officers arrived too late.
Bellona had had it.
Now it is a fact that all over
Canberra, at exactly 4.50 p.m.,
public servants put on their hats
to go home.
A “ten-to-five job” has become
a colloquialism for the occasion
when a memo is placed on a
desk at about ten-to-five and,
because the desk’s owner is then
engaged in the really serious
business of getting out of his
door, the memo is not seen by
Ijim until next morning.
This “sufficient unto the day”
attitude has been the cause of
some memorable evils thereof.
It was said freely at the time
that Bellona’s removal was a
“ten-to-five job.”
It was rumored that an order
to remove her went out, and
then an order to let her stay,
but this second memo, did not
quite make it in time to be read
that night. And so the job went
ahead.
The art-qircles fairly spun,
but it did no good.
Having got Bellona on to a
truck and having ripped-up
her foundations, there was little
point in putting her back —she
had to go to the War Museum
sooner or later. That was her
“rightful place.”
Unfortunately, there was no
rightful place ready for her at
the Museum. This unannounced
guest couldn’t be placed just
anywhere, an official of the
Museum said at the time. You
couldn’t just put her in a corner
—the room would need some-
thing else to balance her. Any-
way, Bellona was relegated to a
dark spot in a dusty corridor,
well out of sight.
The Queen and the Duke did
not see the lady. They probably
would have liked to.
■pOLICE and doctors could
-*■ not at first believe the girl's
performance was possible.
The detective who saw her at
the hospital, however, came
away convinced that her story
was true. It would be hard
to find more granite-like indi-
viduals than a pair of detectives,
but these two were emotionally
disturbed.
When a reporter asked them
the routine question of whether
they would charge the mother
with abandoning the baby, they
looked at him as if he disgusted
them.
The mother was 22. The
detectives started looking for her
one Sunday night when a baby
boy was found wrapped up snug
and lying asleep in a soap-carton
on the steps of a church.
The carton was near a\ door
which was normally in use. But
this was a special Sunday, mark-
ing a ' special festival for
members of that church. They
had gone to the city for religious
celebrations and the door at the
top of the steps was locked.
Some people, heard a baby
crying as they passed the steps,
and walked up and found the
box.
Police took charge of the baby
and rushed him to a big matern-
ity hospital near by. He weighed-
in at 71b. 50z., and with the
right sort of tucker he soon
settled down. He was very fit.
Doctors at the hospital came
to the conclusion that the baby
had been delivered under proper
supervision. This should have
made the task of the police
easier, but it led them into one
dead-end after another.
The Monday morning-papers
carried the story of the little
fellow and his cardboard crib.
The early editions of the after-
noon-papers took it up and
found 11 families who offered
to take care of the baby, and
some of them offered to care
for the baby’s mother, too, if
she would come forward. It
was the big story of the day. . .
An elderly couple who had
been away for the weekend got
off their train from the moun-
tains and took a taxi out to
their home.
On the way they bought a
paper, and, like everyone else
who had read the story, they
wondered where the mother was.
They paid-off the cab and
went up to their flat and put on
the kettle. They were drinking
their tea when they heard move-
ments in one of the rooms. It
was odd, because the girl who
shared the flat with them was
always at work at this time.
The wife went in and found
the girl in bed. The girl told
her she had a cold and that was
keeping her home from work.
She thought she would be feeling
fine in the morning.
The wife took her in a cup of
tea and sat on the bed talking
to her for a while, telling her
about the lovely weekend she
had had. The girl did not seem
very well.
This was about noon. Later,
the wife was getting some lunch
in the kitchen and she glanced
again at the newspaper on the
kitchen-table.
Some sort of feminine instinct
started reacting in her mind, and
she began thinking about the
girl in the next room and the
story in the paper. She thought
of a lot of little things which
added up to something that made
her feel quite weak.
The church where the baby
was found was in the same
suburb as the flat, and the girl
belonged to that church. But
the whole thing was impossible.
The girl had not looked any
different from normal recently. . .
No, it was impossible.
Then the wife thought that
perhaps she had looked a little
different. Sometimes it was diffi
cult to detect anything. Some
women showed practically noth-
ing. It was winter, too, and the
girl, like everyone else, had been
wearing an overcoat when she
(Continued on page 34)


IXL
This World Famous Brand Is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of •
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
- CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
The power
of prayer
As a Christian, Madame Chi-
ang Kai-shek prayed daily.
But — like many of us —
she found it hard to “love
thine enemies,” or feel Christ
really died for her.
In September Reader’s Di-
gest she tells the moving story
of how she finally found true
faith . . . and why she be-
lieves small daily prayer
groups can help the whole
world find peace.
You’ll find a wealth of
stimulating articles in Sep-
tember Reader’s Digest, in-
cluding “You’re braver than
you think,” “This bosom busi-
ness,” “Sir Isaac Newton,
explorer of the universe.” On
sale now — one shilling and
sixpence at all newsagents
and bookstalls.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
J ACKS OX^
OSIIIJ-JVAx
mm*
Mg
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
■SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SECOND THOUGHTS ON GENEVA
npHE new-found cordiality of
-*■ Moscow towards the West
and the proposed visit of Khrush-
chev and Bulganin to Britain
have evoked what Henry Fairlie
describes (in London “Specta-
tor”) as “froth of goodwill” in
a large section of the British
press. Another fairly substan-
tial section, however, takes a
very cautious view of the new
Russian mood:
Typical comment:
London “Spectator ” : “It
would be a thousand pities if
people here [Britain] and in
America mistook manner for
matter and began to believe
that all our troubles are over.
We do not suggest that the
Russians necessarily have some
diabolical trick up their sleeves ;
only that the lyrical reaction of
some part of the Western press
tcf Russia’s joviality and Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s optimism
must be successfully obscuring
from many of their readers the
uncomfortable fact that
the smile there stands the same
old tiger straddling half Europe.
The situation today is precisely
as it was before Geneva. Russia
has given away nothing but a
few merry parties and appropri-
ately jolly words.
“All the countries of Eastern
Europe still lie frozen in the
deep frost of Russia’s unrelaxed
control. The entire system in
which Eastern Europe lies
frozen is contrary both to the
general principles which must
inform the policies of the West,
and to the Yalta and Potsdam
Agreements and the various
peace treaties. The democratic
parties are suppressed; their
leaders are in exile, in prison, or
dead; anybody suspected of
sympathy with their forbidden
ideals does not long remain at
liberty.
“Mr. Khrushchev will crack
a joke, but not the Police State
apparatus, with uncontrolled
arrest and concentration camps,
which remains unaltered. The
forcing of a Communist
economic system upon unwilling
populations is gathering strength
again, after the very partial
relaxation of two years ago.
The indoctrination of men,
women and children in every
satellite country with propa-
ganda hostile to the West con-
tinues unabated. The preven-
tion of the flow of free ideas —
by radio jamming, for example
—has never ceased.”
m
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “One
wonders what Mr. Molotov
made of it all. Did he in his
hearts of hearts say to himself,
‘This is all very well. It is a
change of method. Things
become more complicated when
one has to pretend to be friends,
but the realities of opposition
between East and West remain,
and Bulganin and Khrushchev
will find that out in due course’?
“He-has seen Russian friend-
ship for this country and that
wax and wane so often. He
was one of the architects of the
treaty with Nazi Germany. He
presided over Russian foreign
policy during the war-time
friendship between Russia and
the Western Powers. He has
watched Russia and Yugoslavia
in friendship and in enmity, and
it may be that a season of
friendship has opened. Perhaps
he sardonically asks himself,
‘What is friendship?’
“The change in Russia’s
tactics might be ascribed to
greater confidence in her own
position, although what really
brought her to Geneva was the
determination of the Western
Powers not to be intimidated
but to go on with their plans for
the rearmament of Germany.”
¥* *
“ Diogenes ” in London “Time
and Tide”: “After co-operating
—London “Daily Mail”
PLENTY TO MELT
with the British and the
Americans in the war against
Hitler’s Germany, the Russians,
at the war’s end, were permitted
to establish, by intrigue and
force, Communist regimes in
many Eastern European States
and to make them satellites of
Moscow. They were allowed to
inflict on the body of Poland a
third dismemberment.
“Having established in
Europe a completer military
hegemony than the German
hegemony which we went to
war to overcome, the Russians
ever since have kept the world
in a ferment. They have organ-
ised and subsidised ‘colonial
wars for freedom’ designed to
injure the economies of Western
metropolitan States ; the Com-
munist parties within the demo-
cracies, directed from Moscow,
have done their best to bring
about industrial chaos; the
Russians have maintained in
every democratic country an
elaborate spy system, in which
Russian Consulates and
Embassies have played a shame-
less part, and have suborned
many citizens to betray their
countries.
“In short the Communist
States have made evident in
speech and action their deter-
mination to overthrow all non-
Communist States and to
supplant their regimes by Com-
munist dictatorships. They have
driven the Western Powers into
a vast rearmament plan which
has gravely strai-ned the
resources of all. They have
impelled the free nations into
an alliance of mutual defence.
“What did the free nations
get out of Geneva? Precisely
nothing. None of the items
which were discussed came
within miles of being settled.
All of them were referred to a
later Conference of Foreign
Ministers. It required an
immense amount of ‘double-
think’ and ‘double-talk’ to get
agreement even on the ‘refer-
ence’ to the Foreign Ministers.
It was got ultimately on the
basis of language which means
one thing to free men and quite
another to Communists.
“What did the Russians get
out of Geneva? A semblance
of respectability which goes a
long way to make people forget
the past and take a rosy view
of the future. That rosy view
has already led in Britain to
new demands that the period of
national service should be
reduced. Its general effect will
be to make rearmament the
more difficult to maintain.”
* * *
“U.S. News and World
Report ”; “At a time when
American officials from Presi-
dent Eisenhower down are try-
ing to reach agreement with
Soviet Russia and Communist
China to settle the troubles of
the world, this is what is going
on:
“In less than a week after the
Big Four conference at Geneva,
Bulgarian troops shot down an
unarmed Israeli transport plane
that got off course and flew over
the Iron Curtain. Fifty-eight
people were killed, among them
12 Americans.
“Despite the talk of a cease-
fire, Red China’s armies are
keeping things hot in Formosa
Strait, bombarding the islands
held by Chiang Kai-shek off the
coast of mainland China.
“Armed Communists are at
war with the British in Malaya’s
jungles and threatening to
reopen the Indo-China war.
“Communist agents are ex-
ploiting Arab uprisings against
the French in North Africa —
close to some of the biggest U.S.
bases. They are fomenting
strikes, rioting and bloodshed in
Singapore—Britain’s key base
in the Pacific. They are stirring
up trouble between India and
Portugal, spreading anti-U.S.
rumors in Iran, Afghanistan,
Syria and half-a-dozen other
places. (
“Communist politicians—
trained in Moscow and Peiping
—are moving in on South-East
Asia. They are putting the
pressure on Laos and South
Vietnam. They have emerged
from underground to seize the
balance of power in the Parlia-
ment of Indonesia, where their
recent attempt to take control
of the Army caused a Govern-
ment collapse.
Communist
armies everywhere are pushing
their preparations for war.
Fresh Soviet troops with
modern arms are moving into
East Germany. Communist
military equipment is pouring
into North Korea and North
Vietnam under the shelter of
truce agreements with the West.
Red China is concentrating
fighting power Within striking
distance of Formosa.
“European experts who just
left Geneva and Asian experts
who took their places for the
talks between the U.S. and Red
China agree that the basic issues
of the cold war still are nowhere
near solution. Despite the out-
ward affability of their leaders,
the Communists aren’t budging
an inch on the big things.”
# * *
David Lawrence in “U.S.
News and World Report ” :
“How can we make worth-while
agreements with a group of evil
men who run a Police State and
keep millions of persons in
Siberian prison camps? A dicta-
torship can arbitrarily start a
war of aggression without
giving the people a voice in such
a momentous decision. We can
photograph each other’s military
installations to satisfy a world
craving for steps toward pre-
venting war, but nobody can
photograph the minds of evil
men who can conceal from the
camera their satanic purposes.
How can we negotiate effectively
with rulers who permit no
political opposition, no free
elections, no guarantees of
individual rights?
“The answer is that we cannot
achieve peace with such a
Government, and the sooner we
acknowledge that fact the
clearer will be the air.
“We should, moreover, use
every device of publicity and
communication to analyse the
causes of the tension of today
between East and West and
carry the case to the court of
public opinion throughout the
world—and this includes Soviet
Russia.
“Why not ask the Soviet
regime to permit inside all
countries a free discussion of the
causes, of mutual distrust? Why
not iirge Moscow to stop
‘jamming’ the Voice of America
and our radio broadcasts? It’s
a simple way to bring out the
truth. And if the Soviet rulers
aren’t afraid of argument—if
they think they can answer it
all persuasively why should
they not welcome the chance for
the moral forces of the world
to pass judgment on the debate?
“War is not a solution. Com-
promise with principle is not a
solution. But the building of a
bridge of trust with the Russian
people is a solution. Govern-
ments come and go—but rela-
tions with peoples can be placed
on a basis of enduring and
understanding friendship.”
Atomic Utopia?
At the atomic-energy con-
ference at Geneva the star of
the show was the U.S.
a small, working atomic reactor
submerged in 20 feet of water.
Almost as impressive were the
salesmen from a group of


KEROS ENF
[ijMiy
PRESSURE
Regd.
\v t /
X
'/I \ '
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT IN OROUTOF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY iRD PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
* MAN UFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE :
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
o*
e*
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
,
and stops tooth decay BEST
Every time you brush your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream, you can actually feel how smooth
and clean they are. Your teeth are whiter . . .
brighter . . . and you are assured of round-the-
clock protection against decay-causing enzymes.
That's why Colgate Dental Cream is Australia's largest—
America’s largest—the world’s largest selling dental cream.
Get the family economy size and save at least 1/5.
Tl 9
British companies ready to dis-
cuss with potential customers
prices and delivery dates for
atomic reactors.
At the same time the Ameri-
can announcement of prices at
which they were prepared to
sell and lease essential reactor
materials like uranium and
heavy water was, as London
“Economist” comments, a
“move to tempt customers by
offering cut-price fuel”:
“The American price for
heavy water, $2B a pound, was
freely admitted to be below the
cost of production. The prices
of $4O per kilogramme for
natural uranium and $25 a
gramme for the lease of uranium
containing an additional 20 per
cent, of fissile atoms also smack
of a bargain offer. The Ameri-
can Atomic Energy Commission
has been at some pains to avoid
direct association with the
United States companies’ export
drive, but there is no doubt that
this announcement was intended
to help American manufacturers
at Geneva.”
While these things were going
on, London “Time and Tide”
couldn’t help but note that “a
quite unbridled optimism seems
to be the order of the day on the
hitherto sombre theme of
atomic development.”
Adding that it is only a few
months since “there were, on all
hands, lurid prophecies of
imminent and total doom,”
“Time and Tide” goes on to
comment that “now, in the
twinkling of an eye (is it un-
charitable to suspect that it may
be the shrewd old eye of
Marshal Bulganin?) the world
hears a mighty different tune”:
“The blithe scientific prog-
nostications that are filling
newspaper columns make
racing tipsters seem hardheaded
and cynical realists. Nothing
like it has been experienced
since a young H.. G. Wells (he
changed his tune later) gleefully
predicted the imminent arrival
of a materialist’s millennium
which seemed to less progressive
intellects a nightmare mixture of
a gymnasium and a somewhat
laxly conducted chocolate shop.
It is ironic, if hardly edifying, to
reflect that the latest thunderous
serenade to the glories of the
day after tomorrow is coming to
the world from Geneva. If the
shores of that clean, wind-
garnished little city could but
comment . . .
“Further discoveries about
atomic energy, recently so
hideous a prospect as hardly to
be tolerated, now seem as cosy
as a new gas-stove, much
warmer and much more reliable.
Britain, it appears—while the
more sensitive among us
wondered what devilry was
being cooked up in that fear-
some incinerator on the Berk-
shire Downs —has been quietly
evolving a keenly competitive
line in nuclear reactors (civilian
type) which, according to Mr.
Moore Patterson, a leading
American atomic expert, put
this country far in the lead in
the peaceful uses of atomic
energy.
“No sooner has the ordinary
newspaper-reader ceased preen-
ing himself over this than he is
told that our scientists are
—London “Daily Mirror”
THE GAP
experimenting with atomic pro-
pulsion for ships. And immedi-
ately afterwards he is rendered
completely and conclusively
bomb-happy by reading that
Professor Bhabha, a dis-
tinguished physicist from
Calcutta University, said:
“ ‘I venture to predict that a
method will be found for liberat-
ing fission energy in a controlled
manner within the next two
decades. When that happens
the energy problem of the world
will have been solved for ever,
for the fuel will be as plentiful
as the heavy hydrogen in the
oceans.’
“Given this encouragement
over several days, the majority
of British newspapers, being
thoroughly well schooled in
axiom of the Beaverbrook
Foundation that ‘the noos that
sells is good noos,’ have uttered
shrill whoops of glee and
scurried off into the rosiest and
wildest of daydreams.
“Nobody enjoys being a Mrs.
Gummidge, nobody really likes
shaking a warning umbrella at
all this innocent merriment. But
before the whole thing gets
utterly out of hand and before
the National Coal Board begins
buying (at vast expense) tanks
of sea-water to replace the coal
which Italians cannot be allowed
to cut in British mines, it might
be as well to point out that this
is all pie in the sky. The whole
world has not, by a nuclear
short-cut, arrived suddenly but
permanently in a happy land
far, far away; the millennium
will not, like a colossal village
fete and jumble sale, be opened
tomorrow afternoon punctually
at two-thirty, with the massed
bands of the International
Association of Scientific
Workers playing it in.
“There is a deal of injustice,
evil, heartbreaking suffering and
callous indifference to be dealt
with yet a while. Prisoners-of-
war have been —and probably
still are being—brain-washed and
tortured. Mr. Nehru is having
his annual hot-weather outburst
of irritation over Goa. The
British Transport Commission is
still closing ‘unremunerative’
canals and running unpunctual
and dirty trains. As a rector
in a Lincolnshire village was
constrained to observe in his
sermon last Sunday:
“ ‘Here we trim our paraffin-
lamps and read about plans to
launch earth-satellites and space-
rockets. Maybe after the trifling
venture of reaching the moon
has been accomplished the
authorities will attempt the
gigantic task of bringing elec-
tricity a few yards down the
lane.’
“It is impossible not to sym-
pathise ; but it is doubtful if
the scientists themselves are
directly to blame. The pseudo-
scientists and the scientific
popularisers are. The lay public
is fantastically and fatalistically
ignorant of the elementary
vocabulary of real science ; and,
emboldened by this widespread
ignorance, the pseudo-scientists
and popularisers prance and
grimace like witch-doctors, sum-
moning rain and bidding the
mountains topple. Their song,
for long an excessively melan-
choly one, has now suddenly
turned lively and cheerful. One
set of predictions is likely to be
as misleading as the other.”
Germany
The rise in the German bank-
rate and the sharper squeeze on
credit are, as London “Financial
Times” comments, “not to be
regarded as anything more than
precautionary measures” and
reports from most other ob-
servers take much the same view.
The general tone of comment,
in fact, continues to be one of
mild amazement at German
recovery since the war and its
increasing prosperity:
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune ”
editorial comment: “Each new
report on West Germany’s
foreign trade adds new evidence
that Teutonic drive and single-
mindedness are factors to be
reckoned with in the world, for
that country’s comeback from
prostration is nothing short of
fabulous. West Germany is now
the No. 3 trading nation of the
world, behind only the United
States and Great Britain, and
so far this year exports are run-
ning 19 per cent, ahead of last
year, with imports up 31 per
cent.
“German sales representatives
are everywhere, in Europe, the
Middle East, Latin America and
the United States, and the fac-
tories that were blasted and
burned by Allied explosives
during the war are now promis-
ing faster deliveries in many
cases than the Americans and
British can offer.”
* * *
Roscoe Drummond in New
York "Herald Tribune": “Ger-
many’s solidly earned prosperity
creates the best possible soil into
which the new German democ-
racy can put down its roots. It
contributes to the strength of«the
West in all its dealings with the
Soviet Union.
“It barricades another large
area of the world where Com-
munism has lost its breeding-
ground.
“It offers a magnet to the
18,000,000 Germans imprisoned
in the Soviet East zone and
shows what could be theirs when
they throw off, or win their
freedom from, Soviet occupa-
tion.”
* * *
Karl Robson in London "News
Chronicle “ Germany’s good
fortune has been the special post-
war demands of a world calling
for new ships, new cars, new
machines and goods of all kinds
which were not being made for
a long time and which Germany
knows how to make well. More
than a third of Germany’s
engineering output is being sold
abroad.
“There is really no reason at
all why other countries should
be alarmed by Germany’s
achievements. Watchful, yes;
stimulated, yes. But not hypno-
tised into a mood of failure and
inferiority.
“For one thing, the German
with money to spend is good for
us all. Two years ago Germany
was buying £4,000,000-worth of
goods from Britain every month.
For the past six months, thanks
to her increased prosperity, Ger-
many has been buying nearly
£8,000,000 of goods from Britain
every month. What is wrong
with that?”
* * *
London “Economist”: “Wages
[in Germany] have risen by 14
per cent, in the last two years ;
but so far the increases have been
outstripped by soaring produc-
tivity, as well as by the increase
in production. This is a phase
which may, however, now be at
an end and in future the rise
in wages and productivity must
go hand in hand. This may be
possible to achieve, as German
industry is reaping the benefit of
the modernisation programme
which is still in full swing. In
the first five months of this year,
production went up by 16.4 per
cent, compared with the same
period in 1954.
“Steel leads the way. This
year, West Germany will produce
21 million tons, or more than
Britain, and plans to provide
for further increases. A few
years ago, for instance, the grass
was growing on the destroyed
and dismantled Thyssen works.
Today the company is nearing an
output of 1.8 million tons, and
is looking forward to being once
more the largest plant on the
continent, with 2.4 million tons
of steel to feed its new strip-
mills. And so the German
miracle goes on.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIMD
Australian Beef
“Too much of your beef is too tough
—that’s all there is to it,” commented
Gerald M. Rankin, stud-cattle-breeder
of Brechin, Scotland, when interviewed
after a tour which took him as far north
as the Queensland Gulf Country. He
went on to say that North Australia must
face the fact that, in another 10 years,
there would be no market at all, any-
where, for the tough four-year-old.
Comments such as these do not bode
well for an industry which has played
a major part in opening-up the North.
Most cattlemen in the North have
already realised the need to produce
younger, better steers. The main limit-
ing factor is inadequacy of transport-
facilities ; many northern cattlemen are
forced to try to fatten steers on country
suitable only for breeding. When the
steer eventually does fatten —usually as
a four- or five-year-old—he is subjected
to a long and arduous trip to a coastal
abattoir. Little wonder Australian beef
is hard to sell on competitive overseas
markets!
To produce the kind of baby-beef the
consumer is demanding, steers would
have to leave the breeding-areas as year-
lings and then spend a year in a
fattening-area, preferably as near a treat-
ment-plant as possible. In most areas
of the North a steer needs to be two
years old, at least, before he will stand-
up to the walk to the railhead and the
subsequent endurance-test in the rail-
wagon.
Both Argentina and the U.S.A. have
had to face similar problems. In the U.S.,
particularly, breeding- and fattening-
areas are sharply defined. Calves raised
on poorer country are shipped, usually
as weaners, to fattening-farms and feed-
lots where they are within easy reach
of abattoirs. This means that they reach
the killing-floor with a minimum of
bruising and wastage. This system is
made possible by efficient road- and rail-
transport.
In the past, all reports on the develop-
ment of the N.T. have stressed the need
to extend existing railways to tap the
more promising areas. The history of
the development of older countries bears
out the fact that development has usually
stopped where the railways stopped. The
solution seems obvious enough, but the
official attitude has been that the cost
of constructing such lines could not be
justified.
From a purely financial viewpoint that
is possibly correct. One has only to
glance at a map, however, to see that
North Australia, with a population
numbered in thousands, ■is but a few
days’ sailing from islands which number
their peoples in millions.
The question soon may not be: “Can
Australia afford to develop the North?”
but “Can we afford not to?” —R. G. K.
(Q-).
Drainage Schemes
The Victorian Government is con-
sidering allocating loan-funds to drain
the 50,000-acre expanse of Lake Coran-
gamite and its surrounding catchment-
area in south-western Victoria by build-
ing an outlet-channel to the sea.
Estimated cost is between two and
three million pounds. The plan would
include an eight-mile diversion-tunnel
through the Otway Ranges into Toma-
hawk Creek, which would, in turn, feed
the Gellibrand River emptying into the
sea.
The scheme would release for intensive
cultivation some 300,000 acres of the
lake and catchment-area in one of the
most productive parts of the higher-rain-
fall belt of the State. It would also
minimise present flooding in the fertile
Barwon River Valley, a matter of much
debate and inquiry for decades and more
recently the subject of an investigation
by a State Parliamentary committee.
Lake Corangamite is salt and is not
the habitat of much wildfowl. For this
reason the balance of nature will not be
disturbed by the drainage-plan, as could
happen if it were a large freshwater lake.
—Plain Australian (Vic.).
Dairying
Taxpayers were no doubt surprised to
learn that the dairy-industry has been
paid subsidies amounting to more than
£100,000,000 during the past six years.
It is ('arresting to analyse the effect of
dearer butter and cheese, with a reduced
local consumption per head of popula-
tion. Wealthier dairymen and inflated
prices for their properties have followed,
together with the quota-system of mar-
keting milk from the cowyards, thus
creating a close preserve for those en-
gaged in the industry. If it is not profit-
able, why the present prices for dairy-
lands and dairy-cattle?
Gradually the. movement is catching-
up, and a sorry fate awaits the industry
unless home-prices are reduced, thereby
increasing local use of all types of dairy-
produce. Our overseas prices must also
be made truly competitive to hold exist-
ing markets and enlarge others. The
present system won’t do it and won’t
allow the industry to expand to the
essential extent at home or abroad.
The scaling-down of monetary returns
to dairymen is inevitable, and increased
output at lower prices is the answer.
Taxpayers must be relieved of the costs
of propping-up the calling, and it is just
as well to start on something which
everyone requires and is beneficial to the
general health of the community. Other
sections of the public will, in the end, be
forced to follow suit.
Thoughtful landmen must realise the
basic commonsense of the foregoing
views. In a nutshell, we must have in-
creased production at lower prices, and
the existing system will not do the trick.
—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
To many people, particularly those on
fixed incomes, butter is now in the luxury-
class. Many cannot afford it at all, and
the obvious alternative is margarine, but
whether they can get that or not is another
matter.
Hear the Victorian leader of the
Country party on the subject: “We will
fight with everything we have to stop a
rise in the margarine quota. My party
realises the prosperity of many of our
country centres depends on the great
dairying-industry.”
As is usual with such minority view-
points, the plight of the unfortunate con-
sumer is completely ignored. The C.P.
leader went on to say that efforts being
made by Queensland and N. S. Wales
were to the detriment of the dairying
States —N. S. Wales had increased its
margarine-quota from 1248 tons to 2500
tons a year, and Queensland from 645
tons to 4236 tons. Victoria’s quota had
remained stationary at 1196 tons since
1940.
If those reported figures are correct, it
is high time that Victoria substantially
increased its quota —that is, if we must
have such things as quotas. A good deal
of juggling seems to be going on with
butter-prices, subsidies, etc., and because
of the failure to permit a few honest
natural laws to operate the dairy-industry
is. in something of a mess.
Last year 24,000 tons of butter were
“If clock 'ad n' stopped, Cap’n, I'd'a' been'ere before I left 'ome.”
sold for export at Is. a pound less than
the Government’s guaranteed price; this
year the difference is expected to be
between Is. 4d. and 2s. a pound. Pro-
ducers are to continue receiving 49.29 d. a
pound for butter irrespective of the fall
in export-prices, and export-cheese will
be similarly subsidised. In addition, on
butter sold in Australia, producers would
receive about 7£d. a pound on about
120,000 tons.
It means that, on top of the high retail
price for butter, consumers also pay in-
directly by way of taxation for these
subsidies. Sooner or later the whole stupid
structure must come tumbling down, but
in the meantime is it any wonder that
dairyfarmers continue to pay record
prices for cows and good dairying land?
—Ceg (Vic.).
Coach-doors
I can corroborate “Recla’s” story of
the Cobb and Co. coaches (B. 10/8/’55).
As a lad, last century, I heard Mark
Twain lecture in the old Exhibition Build-
ing (Sydney) on
“American Virtues
and Vices.” He dis-
cussed the tobacco-
chewing habit of his
compatriots, and
mentioned that their
coaches were door-
less, so as to give an
outlet to the copious
expectorations of the
chewers.
By way of con-
trast, he stated
that the railway-
carriages (“ box-
type”) with their closed doors were
frequently flooded with what he called
“a Virginia high-tide” of tobacco-juice.
“Recla” also mentions the efforts of
Cobb’s passengers to assist on the ups-
and-downs of steep mountain-tracks.
Many a time I shared in the pushing and
pulling on Barrengarry and. Cambewarra
Mountains on the Moss Vale to Nowra
route. As it was not unknown for the
brakes to fail on steep down-grades, ropes
were attached to help lower the coach
down the worst parts.
Another feature was the rear or “China-
man’s” seat looking back along the road.
Many a proud native considered it
derogatory to be put in this seat. But
on one occasion, when footing it from
Broken Hill to Menindie, my mate and
I were cheered by a bottle of Scotch tossed
to us from the rear seat by a party of
shearers who had just cut-out on one of
the Darling stations.— Justin Thyme
(N.S.W.).
Subversion in Asia
In casting some doubts on v the
value of Seato, the Dyason lecturer,
British Labor member Mr. Kenneth
Younger, referred slightingly in Canberra
to the clause on subversion in that admit-
tedly somewhat vague agreement. His
audience was not permitted to ask ques-
tions (although Dyason was a great
believer in controversial argument), but
some on this point would have been per-
tinent because the subject of subversion
in Asia is looming large in all recent
statements by External Affairs Minister
Casey on Asian matters.
In a comment on Chou En-lai’s pro-
posal for a collective peace pact between
Communist China, the U.S. and all other
nations of the Pacific and Asia, for ex-
ample, Mr. Casey suggested that security
in the region could be firmly based only
if the Communists “gave evidence that
they renounced force as a means of
achieving their objectives, and if they
abandoned the use of subversion in other
Asian countries.” He went on to indi-
cate that Australia was as much con-
cerned with the possibility of subversion
as with the chance of aggression, and
suggested that subversion was the work
of anonymous agents fomenting dissen-
sion in south-eastern countries, and thus
creating conditions in which stability and
peaceful progress in those countries were
threatened.
This is a thought-provoking definition.
Australia is at present undertaking a
substantial programme in Asia, with the
use of skilled propagandists in certain
key Embassies and Legations, and with
a strengthening of the Radio Australia
programmes which are readily heard and
extremely acceptable in many Asian
areas. Certainly this work is not anony-
mous, and we would claim, of course,
that we do not intend to stir up any
dissension. Yet our enemies might sug-
gest that we are doing so, and that our
propaganda might have the very effects
that we profess to fear. At the same time
they could blandly deny any association,
actual or implied, with “anonymous
agents” who are certainly actively at
work at present through South-East Asia,
as elsewhere.
The fact is that the world at large is
being subjected to mass propaganda-
attacks, some of the most insidious kind
and some openly aimed at the great
groups of the unthinking. This “war”
is not likely to grow any less if a bit
of the heat goes out of the cold war, and
in fact it is likely to be intensified as
offering the best and perhaps the only
means of achieving objectives which were
formerly the subject of the policy ot
force. What Mr. Casey should do is
to give some positive examples of sub-
version in action in Asia, and some indi-
cations of how Australia proposes to
conduct its counter-attack. There is little
or no need for secrecy in this matter, and
the revelations might benefit many Aus-
tralians—and Mr. Kenneth Younger,-
Mugga Way (A.C.T.).


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD. .
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SIROMARK
(REGD. TRADE MARK OF C.5.1.R.0.)
SHEEP BRANDING FLUID
Available in three brilliant colours
RED, GREEN and BLUE (L.B.E. BLACK also available)
CAN be used ON WET
ORDER NOW
FROM YOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
Marketed in. Auttralia by
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD
51R.1X.1983
Costs and Work
The week before the Budget Mr.
Menzies grumbled over a luncheon in
Sydney that the costs of running Govern-
ments was going up just the same as
everything else these days. The day
before the Budget 100 old-age pensioners
descended on Canberra to air the plight
in person. It is hard not to wonder how
they raised the return-fare from
Melbourne.
After these prognostications, Treasurer
Fadden preached his way through a
gloomy Budget. And certainly there is
a lot to be gloomy about whatever the
Pollyanna press pretends.
Perhaps the most curiously unreal atti-
tude was that of the Sydney “Sun,”
which somehow contrived not to know
what its better-half the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” was saying. The “Herald”
properly admitted the gravity of our
overseas trade-deficit of £256 million and
deplored that to show for it there is a
rise of only £l2O million in stocks of
goods. But that evening the “Sun” —
though now a vehicle of the same news-
paper-group—could only twitter of our
boom economy and pretend the Treasurer
was a sort of bogy-man.
Treasurer Fadden did in fact do his
best to look for gold linings to economic
clouds. He admitted that import-restric-
tions imposed last year are only now
beginning to button the national purse.
Another £9O million of foreign capital
came to Australia last term. The roaring
success of the Holden venture and the
flyer which Sears Roebuck are about to
take may well lead to more foreign capital
coming our way.
Whatever the disadvantages of such
money, the Treasurer suggests it is the
only kind we are likely to get from
abroad. He warned against the notion
that institutions all over the globe are
itching to lend us money.
However, the real trouble, and the text
of Sir Arthur’s sermon, is that we have
been too extravagant: both in fondness
for spending-money and in fondness for
leisure. “We have prematurely attempted
a too high standard of living.” Hire-
purchase and the forty-hour week are the
two villains.
One factor contributing to last year’s
high fever of spending may have been
overlooked: during the previous year we
had gone through a brief recession. Not
being able to walk from one job to
another seemed like doom to many
people. For almost a year, housewives
soft-pedalled their demands for washing-
machines and new hats.
When full-employment came surging
back there was a buying-lag to catch up
with.
Sir Arthur is faced with a political
paradox: Australia is prosperous in the
wrong places. What steps might he have
taken to channel this prosperity into the
right places? As he obviously realised,
almost any such step would be too
unpopular for voters’ consumption.
In the U.K. they whack roughly a
third purchase-tax on all luxuries. And
what does the U.K. choose to connote by
the word luxury? Practically everything.
And it was a Labor Government that
made the decisions.
But it is more than doubtful whether
any party out here could risk its political
charm by making and implementing such
unpopular decisions.
It has been suggested—and pretty
often —that a reduction of tax on over-
time would induce people to work harder.
This is said to be behind Germany’s
economic recovery. But there is a differ-
ence: whereas the German worker will
work hard all day and half a night as
well, too many Australians would (and,
indeed, do) loaf all day to extract the
maximum possible overtime.
One thing is certain, however. It is to
be hoped Sir Arthur will not too long
“defer” consideration of plant-deprecia-
tion allowances. And the newest
machinery is one “extravagance” to
be encouraged everywhere. Perhaps
machinery that works hard is the only
answer to the Australian worker. —G.P.
(N.S.W.).
Goa
One of the world’s minor trouble-
spots, the Portuguese enclave in India,
is still causing excitement in Delhi
and Lisbon. With rail - services
from India stopped, Nehru has denied
that he discussed Goa with the Pope
during his visit to Rome. “All that I
“ 'Bye-bye , pet.”
said to his Holiness was that this was
not a religious issue, and the Pope said
he entirely agreed.” Nehru said the
clarification would be helpful because the
Lisbon Government was saying that
Portuguese control of Goa was in defence
of Christianity, European culture, “and
some things like that.” Nehru added,
“I suppose European culture today is
finding its finest flowering in Portugal.”
Attacking portion of the British press
for its attitude, he said it was “fantastic
nonsense” to be told that there was an
agreement between Portugal and Britain
in the 15th century “about exchange of
bows and arrows and whatnot,” and that
hence the Portuguese could hold on to
Goa. “Let the world take notice, let the
Atlantic Powers take notice, that we will
tolerate no nonsense about Goa from
wherever it comes, from big or small
Power.”
After this remark he added that India
would adhere to the path of peace, and
predicted that the regime in Goa would
collapse, and, also, perhaps, the regime
in Portugal.—D. D. D. (A.C.T.)
“News”
The first serious accident in the Redex
reliability trial involved car No. 116,
driven by John Green, with Bill Sadler,
of the R.A.A.F., as navigator. It crashed
about 24 miles out of Rockhampton.
Both men live at Glenbrook (N.S.W.)
and the first news of the crash came in a
telegram to Sadler’s wife late in the
afternoon saying they were both in Rock-
hampton hospital but adding they were
not seriously hurt. A telephone-call to
the hospital confirmed the telegraphic
message and both wives settled down to
listen to the A.B.C.’s “Redex Summary”
at 6.30 p.c. The summary merely men-
tioned there had been a crash and that
neither Sadler nor Green had been seri-
ously hurt. For good measure it added
that Sadler was in hospital but said noth-
ing further about Green.
Then came 2GB’s news-broadcast at
6.45 p.m. It headline*! the crash and said
the two men were in hospital in a serious
condition. This raised anxiety to fever-
pitch and another trunk-call was booked
to the hospital. The two wives were
determined to get the truth if they could.
In the meantime relatives and friends
telephoned from near and far, all de-
manding to know exactly how the two
men were. I tried to comfort them by
saying the A.B.C.’s news broadcast at
7 p.m. was bound to put the position
right. The A.8.C., however, said exactly
nothing about the crash.
Happily the trunk-call came through
soon after the news-broadcast and the
hospital assured the anxious wives that
their husbands were not seriously hurt.
Green had a probable fracture of two
ribs; Sadler a broken left forearm. An-
other driver who was at the hospital
added that Green had been driving when
the car overturned and was pinned
underneath, hence the injured ribs.
Sadler had been thrown clear.
Nothing more to do now but await
the full report in next morning’s papers.
And what a mass of inaccuracies and
contradictions they served up! The
“Daily Telegraph” said Green had a
“severely crushed chest and internal in-
juries,” which was an exaggeration, and
Sadler a “badly smashed right arm.”
The “Sydney Morning Herald” said the
two men were “veterans who had com-
peted in the two previous Redex trials.”
Actually this was their first entry. It
said also that Sadler was driving, when
it should have been Green, that Sadler
lives at Brookfields-road, Glenfields, in-
stead of Brooklands-road, Glenbrook,
and that Green lives at Gowrie-road,
Glenwood, instead of Lucasville-road,
Glenbrook. It got the name of Green’s
house mixed up with the street.
The “Herald” then went on to say
that Sadler had a crushed chest and
Green a fractured arm, whereas it
was the other way about. The only
accurate portion of the report was that
the two men were in a satisfactory con-
dition. More frantic telephone-calls from
Sydney to Glenbrook followed the read-
ing of the two contradictory reports, rela-
tives demanding to know just what was
the truth about the whole affair. They
were reassured, as far as possible.
Another long-distance call confirmed that
the two men were “comfortable.”
About the only one to come out of the
affair on the credit side was P.M.G.
Anthony, whose receipts must have been
swollen appreciably by the inaccurate
and contradictory newspaper and com-
mercial radio reports.—M. F. Dixon
(N.S.W.).
_____
Trade-marks
Manufacturers of practically every-
thing from corsets to caterpillar-
tractors should be interested in the con-
ference on patents and trade-marks, to
be held in Canberra in November. A
representative of the U.S. is expected to
attend, and there will be discussions on
improving and simplifying procedures, on
reducing administrative costs, and on
helping firms and individuals seeking
patents or trade-marks in more than one
Commonwealth country. Continuous
contacts and exchange of information
between patent offices will be proposed,
and there’ll be some preparatory work
for the next diplomatic conference of the
44-nation International Union for the
Protection of Industrial Property, to be
held in Lisbon, probably in 1957. —Cee
Emm (A.C.T.).


lFsaShts
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
every Roll of Netting
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
i
.. (,:■:
•vv
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
THE MAN ON
The LAND
“DON'T WORRY IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
DESERT FODDER
T7ARIOUS people from various
* States, who, between them,
have contributed a swag of in-
formation on the drought-
resistant succulent, parakeelya,
have so far failed to mention
that not all herbage-eating
animals like the stuff; horses
and camels don’t.
When I was mining mica on
the Hasty Range Feld, east of
the Macdonnell Ranges, in 1918,
T 9, ’20,1 made several trips into
the top end of the Simpson
Desert with Louis Bloomfield,
manager of Loves Creek Station.
Loves Creek, 50 or 60 miles
from Alice, was one of the great
horsebreeding properties of those
days. Remounts for India, out
of half-draught mares by
thoroughbred sires.
Louis was looking for stray
horses and cattle, I was keep-
ing an eye open for mica out-
crops on the southern end of the
ranges. On each trip we picked
up a few cattle —some of them
cleanskins —in fair condition
considering our three-year
drought, but we didn’t see any
horses or tracks or droppings of
horses. As my camels and
Bloomfield’s horses wouldn’t
look at the parakeelya, we could
only spend, one night dry camp-
ing before making back to the
rock-hole on the range. After
penetrating the desert about 20
miles on each occasion, and
only finding patches of para-
keelya here and there, we came
to the conclusion that the Simp-
son Desert is a poor standby,
even for stray cattle in a drought
season.
As for pie-melons, which also
are drought-resistant, there are
plenty of them among the gullies
and creek-banks through the
Macdonnell and Hasty Ranges:
these, too, may be all right for
cattle, but if you want to save
yourself trouble, keep your
horses away from them. Horses
will nibble them, but some toxin,
in the melon itself or in the
runner or leaf, causes a scum
to form over the horses’ eyes
which, if not treated, will send
the animals blind.
When this happened, Louis
Bloomfield used to put a small
amount of dry, fine salt on a
spill of paper and blow it, with
a quick puff, into the infected
eye. The salt cuts away the film.
If you’re trying it, make sure
you succeed first time. The
horse may not give you another
chance.
M- M.
%
Use for Maize Cobs
“B.B.”: New and varied uses
for waste maize-cobs have been
discovered in the United States.
The new demand, both from
industry and agriculture, is lead-
ing many farmers to shell their
maize carefully. Before it was
often fed to livestock on the
cob.
Before War II less than 5000
tons of cobs was sold commer-
cially. Research in the last 10
years has led to an increase of
60 per cent, in the commercial
use of the cobs during the last
five years.
Half the cobs now marketed
are used in the production of
furfural, a chemical required in
the manufacture of Pylon, syn-
thetic rubber, resins, pharma-
ceuticals, industrial solvents and
in the petroleum-refining pro-
cesses. Most of the remaining
500,000 tons is distributed
among a variety of products.
A part went into livestock-
feeds (a cob provides nutrition
equal to the same weight of hay),
derivatives were used for smooth-
ing, cleaning and polishing
metals, glass, plastics and
moulded - rubber articles.
Ground-cobs also serve as a
carrier for insecticides and be-
come a constituent of plastics
and tread-stock for motor-car
snow-tyres.
Whole or coarsely ground, the
cobs are used for poultry litter,
livestock bedding, garden-mulch
or for filling lowlands and pre-
venting soil-erosion. Some far-
mers grind the cobs on their
own land and return them to the
paddocks to maintain humus
condition and loosen heavy soils.
The original use of the cobs, for
tobacco pipes, has become one
of the most minor.
Perhaps the most striking
example of the new uses for the
cob is in livestock-feeds. Both
coarsely-ground cobs and the
chaffy fractions removed before
the cobs are ground to finer sizes
for industrial use are mixed with
molasses and protein-supple-
ments for fattening beef-cattle.
Further tests are proceeding
to determine the feed-value of
chaffy-cob fractions compared
with the woody components and
to disclose the effect of particle-
size on cob-utilisation by cattle.
Buying Cows
“Remo”: Safest way to buy
dairy cows is to select on a basis
of records of performance. But,
of course, this isn’t always poss-
ible. Some points to keep in
mind when picking milkers are:
Cows should be free of splay-
footedness or any hoof- or leg-
defects likely to interfere with
ability to walk and gather food.
Capacity to digest food easily is
important. An indication of this
is a full bright eye, moist muzzle,
a healthy coat coupled with
alertness and activity.
The structural formation of
the animal must ensure the carry-
ing of a large udder without dis-
comfort. The udder itself
should be broad and long with
a soft satiny skin and protected
by low flanks.
Cows with round thighs and
heavily fleshed hindquarters
should not be considered as,
obviously, their food is being
used to develop meat to the
detriment of milk-production.
Buffel-grass
“Geep”: The W.A. Agricul-
ture Production Board aims to
clear a couple of thousand
mesquite-infested acres in the
Onslow district by logging,
raking and burning, followed by
ploughing and the planting of
perennial, tussock - forming
buffel-grass.
This would replace one im-
portation by another, for buffel
(Cenchrus ciliaris ) is not a native.
It occurs in tropical and sub-
tropical regions of Africa and
Asia, and is believed to have
been introduced into our north-
west from India about 1910,
probably accidentally in im-
ported camel-fodder.
It’s a near relative of Bird-
wood-grass, so named because
it was the field-marshal who first
sent samples of the seed from
India to this country during his
early soldiering days.
Buffel-grass, though of the
same genus as the native
gallant’s-curse or cheeky-grass
(which is regarded as a pest in
W.A- and NX), is itself accepted
as a safe and valuable pasture. It
is drought-tolerant, but also
thrives in such heavy-rainfall
areas as Darwin and Katherine.
It will not do well in areas where
frosts are frequent.
Once established, it stands up
well to heavy grazing. It can be
cut and baled as a hay having
good feeding-value and keeping-
qualities.
The grass is readily established
from seed. The seeds must be
mature, and must be sown on
“If’s no use — it Wont even budge!”
broken ground and covered
lightly. The seed is available
commercially in Queensland and
W.A., but is not cheap because
its collection is costly. Efficient
mechanical means have not yet
been perfected: meanwhile,
most of the seed in W.A. is
collected by aboriginal labor.
W.A. Department of Agricul-
ture says that the role of buff el-
grass in the north-west “could
almost be comparable in im-
portance with that of subter-
ranean-clover in the southern
portions of the State.” That’s
saying a lot.
. In the meantime, the attempt
by the W.A. authorities to re-
place mesquite-thicket by buffel-
pasture will be followed with
interest not only here, but in
Queensland, too.
Soil Conservator
“Beulah”: Fifteen years ago,
Fred Hofmaier of Hopevale, on
Victoria’s famous barley-
growing Rosebery Ridge, came
into prominence by winning the
State’s third Hanslow Cup for
soil-conservation in the wind-
erosion area.
The publicity which followed
this win led many other Mallee
farmers to follow Hofmaier’s
method of oversowing stubble-
trash with oats. Before he
showed that a disk-harrow and
drill-box could do the job in
one operation, most farmers used
to burn stubble with consequent
increased susceptibility of the
soil to erosion.
Late in July, 1955, more than
a thousand farmers gathered at
the Hofmaiers’ to see what Fred
and his five sons had done to
win their second Hanslow Cup
on the property, which had now
grown to several thousand acres.
There, visitors saw how
hundreds of acres of lucerne
and barrel-medic had become
established to provide good
sheep-feed and increase the soil-
fertility. Vegetative cover had
also been established on several
salty patches.
Besides looking after her hus-
band and their boys, Mrs. Hof-
maier finds time to grow one
of the best gardens in the South-
ern Mallee.
Pine Plantations
“G.C.”: Pine-plantations—
over a period of years—showed
a higher return than sheep!
Authority for this is Mr. N. R.
Wilson of Kyneton (Vic.), who
is commissioner of the Kyneton
Shire Waterworks Trust.
Wilson suggested to the tmst
that, instead of the trust acquir-
ing land for catchment-
afforestation, it should plant
pines on farmers’ land. The
landholder and the trust would
share equally the profits when
the trees reached maturity.
Clovers and
Weedkillers
“Billjim”: An important con-
clusion from long research by
N.Z.’s Department of Agri-
culture is that preparations of
D.N.B.P. are valuable in weed-
suppression in clovers only when
the weeds are young.
For young pastures that con-
tain white-clover as the main
clover-species, water-based 2,4-D
preparations cause less damage
than similar mixtures of M.C.P.
If the pasture contains red- and
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(28/8/’55)
Rainfall should be very poor in Queensland during
September, with little relief until December.
Conditions should vary considerably in N.S.W. during
September: good rains on the coast from Newcastle south-
ward and moderately good rain on the south-west slopes
and Riverina; tablelands, light to moderate, but only showers
and light rain in the rest of the State. Sydney should
receive rains above average, with the main rains occurring
to September 10.
Reasonably good general rains should continue in
Victoria, with the heaviest falls in Gippsland.
South Australia should also receive general rains, and
in Adelaide rainfall should be above average.
September should be a poor month in W.A., with rain
below normal in the agricultural areas, and light thunder-
storms on the goldfields.
LENNOX WALKER.


The "FARMERS' BOY"
does a MAN’S job
about the place
Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
SXEPPED-AXLE PLOUGH
consisting: of 22 x 4in. metal cleated wheels, heavy
plough beam, fully adjustable disc coulter, breast
share, landslide and the UNIQUE STEPPED AXLE
which keeps the machine level when ploughing. The .
lower wheel rides in the completed furrow, the stepped-up wheel on
the higher ground not yet ploughed, the correct balance thus ensuring
full application of the GEARED STRENGTH of the FARMERS’ BOY.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor for free particulars and
for demonstrations: v
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUI6II.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8661.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1661.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Oastlereagh St., SYDNEY.
P|
1
r
&
tr.
SC
V
So much
Costs so ■eaxk,
when you own a
iaftmichael "4QD
THE CONTINUOUS BURNING
INSULATED COOKER AND
WATER HEATER . . .
MORE
COOKING SPACE
COMPRESSED INSULATION saves
space, allowing greater cooking area.
The hot plate is bigger, too, with
room enough for six 6" saucepans.
FASTER.
CLEANER OVEN
The roomy oven of the
Carmichael "400" is
specially designed to
heat up faster, last for years, and.
being porcelain enamelled throughout,
is so much easier to clean.
AMAZING
FUEL ECONOMY
The Carmichael "400” is always ready
for use and gives a greater fuel
economy than ever experienced with
ordinary fuel stoves. It will burn con-
tinuously on any type of solid fuel,
including satisfactory wood.
i'l
8
m
* The Carmichael "400” can even he allowed to go out overnight if
desired as the hotplate can reach full cooking heat in 15 minuteu
HOT WATER LUXURY THAT COSTS YOU NOTHING ..
Connected to your home hot water service, the Carmichael
“400” will supply hot water throughout the day or night. It
can service a 40-gallon cylinder, enough to provide for all
normal household needs.
Naturally it cooks perfectly . . • It's a Carmichael
Makers of fine fuel stoves since 1892
A UNIT OF EMAIL LIMITED
y/rlte today for free illustrated literature to Department B:
W. T. Carmichael Ltd., Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W. Buzacott (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
W. T. Carmichael Ltd., Brisbane and Hobart. James Balfour & Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Adelaide Perth. Also at Email Display Centre, 115 Oxford Street, Sydney.
white-clovers, a water-based
M.C.P. preparation is advisable,
as 2,4-D is more damaging to
red-clover than M.C.P. to white-
clover.
Therefore, the department
advises, in mature pastures, if
weeds can be controlled by
water-based M.C.P. preparations,
these should be used, as least
clover-damage results. Water-
based preparations are recom-
mended in preference to oil-
based esters of M.C.P., 2,4-D or
P.E.G., 2,4-D if weed-control
results from the use of water-
based preparations.
The investigation revealed that
preparations of 2,4,5-T are very
toxic to clovers at all stages of
growth. With 2,4-D this
chemical forms a valuable weed-
killer in playing greens, but if
used for scrub-spraying, spray-
drift on to pastures should be
avoided.
The department found that
both I.P.C. and C.I.P.C. cause
little or no damage to clover
species. Up to 161 b. of I.P.C.
per acre was applied without
suppressing clover establishment.
So far as T.C.A. is concerned,
the department advises that it
should be used only on mature
clovers. It was found that
mature white-clover was not
affected by rates up to 201 b. of
T.C.A. per acre.
If hormones are to be em-
ployed to deal with difficult-to-
kill weeds, such as docks, the
department recommends spray-
ing in summer when clover
damage in a new pasture is less
serious. Use of 2,4,5-T to
control gorse should also be
restricted to summer.
Where frost follows spraying,
greater clover damage, particu-
larly of red-clover, usually
results.
Incidence of clover in a new
pasture sward may be reduced
by hard grazing before spraying.
Fertile Eggs
“Nangabrook”: For the last
12 months the W.A. Egg Board
has been stressing the import-
ance of poultryfarmers making
absolutely sure that as few as
possible fertile eggs are mar-
keted ; yet during this last
winter season alone the board
has lost nearly £7OO on fertile
eggs. As summer comes on the
loss will increase very consider-
ably unless the farmers do some-
thing about it.
There’s no place for cockerels
on an egg-farm. Even if they’re
penned separately an odd one
will fly over to the hens ; causing
trouble on the grading-floors and
in the housewife’s cooking.
Last summer, when the board
penalised producers who mar-
keted fertile eggs without indi-
cating that fact on the box,
several were astounded at the
damage which resulted when one
cockerel was left in a run for a
day. The producer markets his
eggs in good faith as infertile,
an odd one beats the grader—
especially if they’re graded im-
mediately—and a few days later
a bad egg turns up in a kitchen.
That’s one family that won’t
favor eggs for a while, and the
home-market is the one pro-
ducers have to look to, now that
the English and continental mar-
kets aren’t what they used to be.
When a spate of bad eggs
reached the Perth shops during a
heat-wave early this year, sales
dropped alarmingly. In almost
every case the trouble was a
fertile egg.
Here’s what happens when a
fertile egg is marketed. As soon
as the temperature reaches 70
degrees the germ starts to
develop, and continues to
develop while the temperature
is favorable. That means the
chicken has started to grow. It’s
alive. But if the temperature
drops much below that, and
stays there for a few hours, the
germ dies. Then you have a
dead egg, which becomes pro-
gressively bad.
If it’s placed in cool-store, as
on a trip to England or in a
shop-refrigerator, the deteriora-
tion is halted; but it recom-
mences as soon as the egg is
removed from the cool-store and
by the time it’s passed over the
counter it’s bad.
The only way to make sure
that you’re not in danger of
marketing fertile eggs is to have
only female birds on the farm.
That’s not always easy, because
sometimes a male bird fails to
develop and can be mistaken for
a pullet. But you have to be
absolutely sure. One cockerel on
a farm is a menace. If you’re a
breeder as well as an egg-pro-
ducer it’s worth thinking over
whether you shouldn’t drop one
or the other activity. Both are
full-time jobs. If you intend to
produce eggs it’s better to
become a specialist in that field,
and buy your chicks from a man
who’s a specialist in his.
Aero and Myxo
“Bert H.”: Two compara-
tively recent developments—one
above the ground and the other
below the surface —have con-
tributed greatly to a big increase
in production right along the
Murray Valley, especially in the
east end.
The two developments are
aerial topdressing with super,
(which is placing the fertiliser
where not previously reached, on
the sides and tops of steep hills)
and the almost complete exter-
mination of rabbits by myxoma-
tosis.
Results have been amazing.
Lush growth has appeared where
it was thought the trees were
robbing away nutrients and
moisture. Stocking-rates have
increased greatly on most
properties. Dairyfarms are pro-
ducing more milk and butter
than previously (consider the
great expansion of Kiewa
butter-factory), and grazing
properties are supporting more
and more cattle to cope with
the rank growth before the sheep
come in with the shorter bite.
Crosscuts
“C.A.A.”: Expected to play
its part in the future mechanisa-
tion of the farm is a hydraulic
platform that can raise two men
to heights of 40ft., exhibited at
the British Industries Fair.
Besides many industrial uses it
can be applied to speed-up fruit-
picking and tree-spraying. The
machine also has a considerable
value for fire-fighting and rescue
work. V - L ~
* * *
“Wilco”: India has com-
plained that we’ve sent her grain-
sorghum loaded with seed of
Datura. The Datura weed is an
import from India, well estab-
lished on the Queensland coast,
where it reaches almost small-
tree size in rubbish-filled gullies.
It seems to like the bagasse
around sugar-mills. The seed,
abundant and fertile, resembles
a miniature thomy-apple, hence
the common name thorn-apple.
Another name is stramonium,
and the dried leaves of the
shrub are an ingredient in
asthma cigarettes. The plant con-
tains a powerful stupefying drug
that is sudden death to stock.
* * *
“A.”: Victorian Department
of Agriculture is experimenting
with the Cinnabar-moth to
eliminate ragwort. The Cinna-
bar, an Italian importation, is
noted for an insatiable appetite
for this particular weed. The
department is working with the
C.5.1.R.0. in Gippsland.
“C.A.A.”: A marked control
of weed - growth has been
achieved by the use of sawdust
in Victorian Department of
Agriculture tests on apple-trees
in the Upper Beaconsfield dis-
trict. Four inches of sawdust
was used, and, in addition to
the weed-control, soil-moisture
was improved through the
summer. The experiments also
have revealed that trees under
sod made much less growth than
those receiving sawdust or
clean-cultivation treatment.
* * *
“0.W.W.”: Seems as if
rabbits will soon be as scarce
as kiwis in N.Z.: Department of
Agriculture reports that a stage
has now been reached “where
rabbits are doing little or no
damage in the country.”
Poison distributed by planes is
mainly responsible.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ....
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire ..
.. £3
Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
AH Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED,
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
comrade were this time gather-
ings very different from those
assembled by the regrettably
frivolous and cynical steward.
Opus Ami was easily upset, and
he made sure everybody knew it.
He had dim lights and soft
music, and spoke with tongues.
Unfortunately the tongues
were apparently those of ancient
civilisations rather than that of
modem Scotland and Andy Mac-
tavish. Quite a few people be-
came well fed up with Opus
before the critical hour or two
when they should sail over
Andy’s last resting-place. But
when that time arrived, there
was new trouble.
A considerable sea had built
up. It was very much of the
kind that had licked its white
tongues at the dark sky the
night Andy had gone not
enough to worry the stout ship,
but calling for some vigilance,
and quite sufficient to worry
Opus. Most people were so busy
looking after Opus, and keeping
him on the job, that some grew
a little careless about looking
after the ship.
After the event all hands and
the cook stood by the captain,
but the fact remains that in
that sort of weather he should
have been on the bridge, and he
was not. Down in the saloon,
purple in the face, he was' tell-
ing Opus he would make him
walk the plank if he didn’t con-
quer his queasy stomach and
keep on trying to make super-
natural contact with Andy. Then
the crash came. After the crash
he was on the bridge in about
five stupendous leaps, and the
crew swore he’d been there all
the time.
It wasn’t a reef, of course. It
was the submerged but still float-
ing wreck of a nor’-west pearl-
ing-lugger, an insignificant
structure of ancient timber and
copperplate compared with the
steel might of the Tartan Em-
blem. But because of the way the
waves tossed the Emblem on top
of it, it broke her back and sank
her almost as quickly as a tor-
pedo or a floating mine could
have done it.
The crew returned to practical
things from its probing into the
supernatural with lightning
speed ; but Opus, unused to such
emergencies and troubled by his
stomach, reacted less swiftly.
Boats hit the turbulent water,
and men leapt, fell, or were
pushed into their appointed
places, and they had got well
clear before “the treasure gal-
leon” headed for the bottom,
urged on the way by the weight
of all her hidden nylons, Scotch,
silk, American cigarettes, and
goodness knew what else, as well
as her legitimate cargo.
AT dawn, in a calmer sea, the
captain signalled the boats
together, and shouted instruc-
tions on the ways that would
best ensure that they reached the
not-too-far-distant land. From
one of them, Fred, the second-
officer, yelled cheerfully, “She’s
gone right down on top of old
Andy, sir. He’ll be able to open
up all his secret panels, now,
if he wants to.”
Then there was a scratch roll-
call, and it was found that all
were present, wet, cold, dismal
but alive—except Opus Ami, the
Pathway to the Past, recently
leading spiritualistic medium of
London.
“Where’s that —that bloody
conjurer?” bellowed the captain.
There was a pause, while they
all looked around, as though
they expected to see him under
a seat.
Fred did some swift, practical,
unethical thinking, winked at
the sailormen in his boat, and
stared blankly across the
sparkling waters.
“Everybody on the ship’s books
accounted for, sir,” he called,
gravely. “There’s no record of
anyone else being aboard.”
The skipper looked thoughtful,
then rueful, and bawled back,
“Nice idea, Mister, but it
wouldn’t work. Somebody’ll be
looking for him sooner or later,
and somebody’ll know he was
with us.”
“Not a chance, sir,” Fred
yelled, cheerfully. “As a matter
of fact the police were looking
for him when he left London,
and neither they nor anybody
else know where he dis-
appeared to.”
The captain went purple at the
unscrupulous audacity of some
junior officers, but after a few
gulps he kept his mouth shut.
There was work to be done
before the survivors were safely
ashore. Nothing could be done
for Opus Ami, anyway. The in-
fernal paper-work of accounting
for both his presence and his
disappearance could be thought
about later.
The captain set a course,
planned methods of maintaining
contact and meeting possible
emergencies, bellowed instruc-
tions to the other boats, and
settled down to a slow, sweaty
journey, beset by certain fears
that proved unjustified about
how reliably the crew would
stand by his story that he had
been on the bridge when his
ship had struck the derelict.
Later, when they were safe at
Fremantle awaiting transport to
England and making statements
on the disaster that had struck
the Emblem, they never got
around to thinking much about
Opus Ami. Gone the way of
various better men, such as poor
old Andy Mactavish himself,
and leaving behind nothing
much except mild anxiety in the
hearts of the London police, he
seemed to have become a sort
of extraneous matter. Without
many words on the subject they
left him in whatever peace there
was at the bottom \>f the Indian
Ocean, and memories of him
grew vague.
With the Emblem and her
contraband gone for ever, the
men went to other ships, and the
“treasure galleon’s” history be-
came just another story for the
waterside-pubs and boarding-
houses of the world, helping a
little to maintain the supersti-
tions of seamen because of the
remarkable coincidence of the
ship’s sinking virtually at the
point where Andy Mactavish had
been lost.
''y'EARS rolled on. Those who
-*• had suffered when Andy
took his secret knowledge with
him overboard suffered other
strokes of good fortune and
bad, and one of the lucky ones
was Fred.
In due cofirse, a solider and
less frivolous man, he found
himself captain of a passenger-
liner on the Australian run, a
man of substance and affability
who seldom even thought of the
Emblem or his past sorrows as
his new, swift, comfortable com-
mand ploughed the Indian
Ocean.
However, there came an even-
ing when, as he wandered
amiably through the first-class
saloon looking as much as pos-
sible like a bluff, blunt,
thoroughly efficient and reliable
sea-dog, his memories of the old
freighter were jolted to life. In
a corner a crowd of giggling pas-
sengers were amusing themselves
over a ouija-board, and he
remembered with interest that
they would, sometime very near
to now, be passing almost over
whatever was left of the Tartan
Emblem. He was irresistibly
drawn towards the group.
“It makes words, but the
words don’t make sense,” com-
plained one of the passengers.
“What’s all this nonsense about
a tartan wreck, anyway? Oply
tartan wreck I ever knew of was
an ex-colonel in the Seaforth
Highlanders.”
Captain Fred felt the hair
bristle on the back of his neck,
and in his excitement it was all
he could do to stifle an eager
yelp. But he controlled his voice,
and said, “There was a wreck
about here some years ago, sir.
Ship called the Tartan Emblem.
Ask if that’s the one.”
The ouija-board answered
with swift decision that it was,
and the captain looked around
suspiciously, for a moment,
seeking anybody present who
might be of such practical-joking
calibre as Margate Charlie. But
these were first-class passengers,
without the cockney wit of
Charlie, let alone any knowledge
of nautical history. Despite him-
self, his interest increased.
“Ask if the ship’s still whole
and the cargo sound,” he almost
ordered.
With a slowness, that seemed
sad, the moving pencil wrote,
“Cigarettes too sodden to light.
Whisky looks wonderful, but no
corkscrew here. Nylons wrong
design for mermaids. All use-
less.”
“My word, it’s old Andy Mac-
tavish, all right,” the captain
said. “Tell him an old shipmate
wants to talk to him.” Then
he called, himself, “Andy! Andy
Mactavish; is that you?”
If ouija-boards can possibly
tremble with rage, that one did.
It jerked into a furious, wrathful
scrawl. The first word was
“NO!” Then it went on, “I am
Opus Ami, the Pathway to the
Past. Ido not talk to Mactavish,
or any of his shipmates.”
After that there was nothing
but surly silence—or rather surly
stillness.
The passengers,.to whom it was
all still double-Dutch, wondered
Why the skipper looked so angry
and upset. As he finally strode
away he was heard muttering
indignantly, “Opus Ami! Opus
Ami be shugared! Who’d want
to talk to him, except the police,
anyway?”
When the story got round
among the crew, some of them
put two and two together and
were amused, but Fred, the cap-
tain, wais cranky-tempered and
kept very much to himself for
the rest of that and for several
ensuing voyages.
Thereafter, however, various
new ship’s-officers, to whom the
tragic story of the Tartan Em-
blem wasi only a sailor’s yarn,
probably wholly invented, used
to wonder why this particular
skipper set so unusual a course
over one section of the Indian
Ocean.
A few of the old-timers could
have put them wise. He really
didn’t want to talk to Opus Ami,
the Pathway to the Past, any
more, and he was just
avoiding that seer’s last,
watery resting-place by as
far as he possibly could
without wasting too much time
or too much of the owners’
meanly-provided oil-fuel.
went out. But surely the people
would notice when she took her
coat off at the office. If she took
it off. . .
The wife picked up the news-
paper from the kitchen-table and
took it into the next room. She
handed it to the girl and asked
her what she thought of it.
The paper had a front-page
photo of the' baby.
She looked at the girl’s face
and one look was plenty. The
wife went to her phone and
talked to the matron at the hos-
pital and the matron arranged
the ambulance.
Later the matron talked to the
girl in the hospital bed. She had
to find out what doctor or mid-
wife had attended the girl. The
police agreed with the matron
that it was better at this stage
that she should ask the questions,
with the girl so weak.
The girl told her there hadn’t
been any doctor or midwife.
She said she was completely
alone in the flat at 3 p.m. on
the Saturday afternoon, but at
4 p.m. she was sharing it with
her son.
She had delivered the baby
herself, attended to him and
herself, dressed him in the baby-
clothes she had bought for him,
and wrapped him up comfort-
ably in a shawl.
Before dawn on the Sunday
morning she had dressed the
baby again, settled him down
in the soap-carton, and opened
the door of the flat.
She had carried the baby and
box down three flights of stairs
and walked to the church, a
quarter of a mile.
She had believed that people
coming to the early-morning
service at the church would find
the baby within about 20
minutes. She did not remember
that there would be no service
at the church that day.
Then she went back to the
flat.
She had eaten nothing from
her light lunch on Saturday
until the cup of tea the married
couple had made her at noon
on Monday.
Under the matron’s care the
girl and her son left the hos-
pital about a fortnight later, both
well.
Where they are now heaven
only knows. Wherever they are,
I’d say she belongs to the lady
category, too.
The sub-editor was probably,
right. All women may not be
ladies. The ones that are fit
into a pattern of quality. It’s
elusive. Not easy to pin down.


Available at all booksellers
Love Is Eternal
by IRVING STONE ■ - «/»
Author of “Lust For Life”
A Novel of Mary Todd and Abraham Lincoln
COLLINS
OUTSTANDING 800K5....
MAN OF EVEREST
The autobiography of Tenzing, as
told to James Ramsey Ullman. In
spite of Tenzing’s fame, little is
known about him as a man. This
book gives the story of his life, and
tells his version of the differences that
arose during the ascent of Everest.
36 pages of illustrations, including 4
in colour. Book Society Recommenda-
tion and Illustrated Book Choice.
23/6 (post 1/1)
JOHN MACARTHUR
by M. H. Ellis—the first full-length
biography of John Macarthur, founder
of the New South Wales wool in-
dustry, and prominent in early Aus-
tralian commercial enterprise and
political agitation. Ellis, author of
“Francis Greenway” and “Lachlan
Macquarie,” once again shows his
skill in presenting history in an enter-
taining way.
50/- (post 1/1)
You’ll find these, and all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
THE DOLLMAKER
Harriette Arnow
A powerful and moving American novel which has been
on the American best-seller list for ten months.
At all booksellers - - 18/9
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : :
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
Khrushchev would let him tour Russia
with a camera. It was a bow-at-a-
venture, and no one was more sur-
prised than Mr. Mac Duffie when Mr.
Petrov of the Russian Embassy in the
U.S. called to arrange the details. His
account of the 65-day tour, mid-
October, 1953, to late-December, 1953,
is in The Red Carpet (Cassell).
Travelling mostly by air, but some-
times by rail and road, he went from
Moscow to Minsk, Kiev, Zaporozhe,
Kharkov and Poltava; then in a vast
movement east to Aktyubinsk, north
to Kustanai, east again to Karaganda
and south to Alma-Ata, Tashkent,
Samarkand; west to Baku, Tiflis,
Astrakhan, Stalingrad, and so back to
Moscow. Wherever he met people or
sat beside them on trains or in aero-
planes, he asked them how much they
earned and how much they paid for
their clothes; and he records a lot of
these replies in roubles, and changes
them into dollars —which, he says,
doesn’t make the comparison very
clear, the Russian exchange-rate being
arbitrary; and in the same way, the
dollars turned into £Australian give
an even more muddled picture. Men’s
suits at 325 dollars in Kiev; women’s
artificial-silk dresses 15 dollars —they
must be short of wool.
The comparison of earnings between
Russian and Russian is more interest-
ing. An unskilled worker may make
only a few hundred roubles a month;
an architect 8000. In Zaporozhe, “the
Pittsburgh of the Ukraine,” while
women pushing a small car got about
700 roubles, metal-pourers were on
1300, while steelmakers averaged 2500
roubles. The rector of the university at
Baku earned 11,000 roubles a month,
and his wife 1000 as a schoolteacher;
they paid 200 of these as rent for their
commodious and well-furnished flat.
The president of the local Academy of
Sciences made 20,000 roubles a month,
and of the Federal Academy, 25,000.
But the only couple higher paid than
the Baku university rector, whom Mr.
Mac Duffie met, were “a man and
woman in Tiflis who each made 8000
roubles monthly and who had been
awarded a 100,000-rouble Stalin prize
for their work as co-managers of the
Georgian folk-dance ensemble.”
His conclusions are that there is too
much difference between rich and poor
in Russia; that the Marxian rule, “from
each according to his ability, to each
according to his needs,” has never
been applied there; but that it cannot
be supposed that most Russians are
unhappy, and certainly not supposed
that they would rise against their dic-
tators. This is borne-out by the con-
versations he has with workers, profes-
sors, students throughout his tour. They
crowded round him in factories,
apparently without fear, to ask him
questions and give him answers. Every-
where he asked why Russia was pre-
paring for war; why did he see so
many soldiers about. Everywhere he
found amusement at the thought that
Russia was preparing for war: did not
everyone wear a peace-badge? Did not
the leaders talk constantly of Russia’s
efforts for world-peace? As Mr. Mac-
Duffie points out, this universal feeling
that Russia wanted peace could easily
turn to anger at any nation which could
be represented as attacking Russia. And
everywhere, in answer to any questions
he asked, or from Russians off their
own bat, he would be asked, why was
America threatening Russia with
encircling bases? Why did America
discriminate against negroes? Why did
America invade Korea? The minds
were so conditioned throughout the
length and breadth of Russia that on
his return to Moscow the press-heads
could tell him before he told them
what questions people had asked him.
He considers there were between
150,000 and 300,000 television-
receivers in Russia, with smaller
screens than the American, but better
definition (625 lines); he found that
although American propaganda-broad-
casts to Russia were jammed, some
Russians listened to them, but most
preferred the British broadcasts, which
gave straight news instead of propa-
ganda. He found that Russia adver-
tised everything from wines to theatres
in a big way; also peace. He caught-up
with the highly advertised film, “Silver
Dust,” in Tashkent —it is about an
American lieutenant-general who buys
the formula for preparation of deadly
bacteria so that it may be manufactured,
by a trust owned by his relatives; a
Nazi cslonel, an evil clergyman and the
Ku Klux Klan co-operate; and the
sheriff, explaining that Korean war-
prisoners are too far away to experi-
ment on, frames negroes by bribing a
bar-room floozy to accuse them of rape,
whereupon they are transported to the
bacteria-test laboratories . . . That is
the other side of the world-peace front.
At Alma-Ata he saw his largest
Soviet collective farm: 25,000 acres,
with 150,000 acres of State grazing-
land, running 30,000 sheep, 1200 cattle,
1300 horses, 450 pigs, 4500 fowls and
135 camels. There were 10,000 people
on it. It had 52 accountants,
maintained 15 produce - stores in
the city, and in 1952 its income was
1.820,750 dollars. He saw several
court cases tried; the appeal of a
health - service doctor from being
directed from work, on patients to work
in laboratories; a colonel’s divorce; a
driver who was drunk after a wedding.
Mr. Mac Duffie himself had a few
brushes with police; he went as far as
grabbing the shirt-front of an obvious
M.V.D. operator whose attentions in a
train he resented; but he went very
quietly with three policemen who took
him to the police-station in Kharkov,
feeling, indeed, that this might be
where the gloomy predictions of his
U.S. friends would be fulfilled. On the
other hand, he saw police, pushed aside
by a big Russian drunk, merely gaping
after the disappearing drunk in sur-
prise; and when one of his interpreters
pushed inquiring police aside and
slammed a tram-door in their faces
there was the same surprise of men
not quite knowing what to do in this
unusual situation.
Sometimes his use of a camera was
allowed without question, other " times,
as on the day of the big parade in the
Red Square, it was prohibited. One
rather pities the high officials who
were there to give frank answers to his
questions and (often) accusations: to
appear to hesitate would be to give an
impression of evasion; to laugh gaily
when he asked why, if it was a free
country, no one ever dared to criticise
Stalin. . . Either way, they must have
been glad to see the last of him. There
is an amusing account of the show of
ease and gaiety Molotov and some other
Soviet great men put on at a diplomatic
do:—
At one time in the evening
Molotov and Bulganin were convers-
ing rapidly in Russian until Molotov
remarked, “Be careful, Bohlen
[American ambassador] mustn’t over-
hear our secrets—he understands
Russian.”
Marshal Bulganin answered, “I
know how to solve that —let’s make
him our Foreign Minister.” Then
Mrs. Bohlen, on behalf of the house-
wives, proposed a toast to Mikoyan,
who had recently made an important
speech on the consumers’ goods pro-
gramme. “You mean, you read my
speech?” asked Mikoyan.
“Well, at least somebody’s read
your speech,” cracked Molotov.
Greatness in Russia, Mr. Mac Duffie
thinks, is to be noticed at parades or
meetings where many leaders are on
the platform: those who are brave
enough to hold private conversations
while someone else is addressing the
people or taking the salute are the
great ones. The Red Square marches-
past, he says, are a bore to all those
in the official grandstands, except those
actually taking the salute.
It is always possible to criticise a
leader who has been executed or dis-
owned —then, indeed, his whole life is
found to have been crooked. And there
is considerable freedom for funny-men
where the joke reinforces an economic
point, such as the cartoon in “Croco-
dile”: “Let’s report that we have ful-
filled half the plan by 100 per cent.”
Rykin, their best vaudeville-satirist,
goes as far towards laughing at Soviet
red-tape as the story about the life-
guard who wouldn’t throw the lifebelt
to the drowning woman because it was
Government property and he had no
authorisation to throw it away, and
the skit on the Stakhanovite prize-
workman who is given a package as a
reward. He opens it and shouts: “This
is a swindle. This is the suit I worked
on!” The manager then says that for
his part he is proud to wear his factory’s
products, and moves away from his
desk, disclosing a pair of pants with
half a leg missing.
Altogether, it is as sincere and care-
ful a book as could be got in the time
and the circumstances, and probably
gives as good a picture of Russia today
as is likely to be painted by anyone
who goes into Russia and manages to
come out again.
Athletics: by members of the
Achilles Club, edited by H. A. Meyer
(Dent). The contributors, who hold a
total of 14 Olympic medals, 43 A.A.A.
championship titles and 28 “English
native” records, tell the young athlete
how to hop, skip and jump; and he
who digests them thoroughly may hop,
skip and jump his way to the Olympic
Games.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 346
Across
I—Sly chap may let it with some
fellow feeling. (15)
B—How8 —How were the ’Nineties and a
Thousand to a little aria show?
(7, 8)
10— Henrietta trades the bird for a
song mentioned elsewhere. (7)
11 — Were confused by the pitcher. (4)
13— Just the drink for sailors. (3)
14— Court figure of Roman times
thrown off a workplace for
shearers. (8)
15— Umbrella is interrupting the
general practitioner. (4)
17—Fellow who is the Iberian version
of Roy Rene? (4)
19 —Recollects writing fluids named
after Eliza. (8)
21 —Gilbertian swearing against the
publicity pop. (3)
23 — Reason for a rise in temperature
by the east chimney. (4)
24 — German beer is thus causing a
bad row? (7)
27 — Tree’s boys around the news-
papers in an original estimate.
(5, 10)
28 — Brief reflections which sometimes
correct 27-across, but shall I
throw in the towel or not? (6, 8)
Down
1 — What goes on foot to the forest
canonising the founder of some
children’s homes. (10)
2 Current loathes this trusty
comrade. (7)
3 Wild punch which produces
winter feed. (8)
4 A steer confused a problem. (6)
5 Bellringer with a wild fancy. (7)
6 A composition for sealing the
joints of a pipe instrument for
old-time musicians. (4)
7 The article town in Victoria gives
no contradiction. (3)
9 —My well-formed ear is thus
almost unboiled. (8)
12 — Watch parts in a sequel to
rubbing restorer on bald heads;
(4-7)
13 — Composer mentions the price
when starting on a metal one. (8)
16—Time put to the blush by a
Russian Army achievement. (3, 5)
18 —A half-caste. (7)
20 —Alfred’s love is in the midst of
very little French money. (4-3)
22—Given a wave by a university
faculty. (6)
25 — Half of the cricket field. (3)
26 — Bear away from the hill-slope in
Scotland. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 345


WRAPPING UP A USTRALIA
W////////W-
-m.
If 3
M
Up
1%,
1%%S
1
0
A
i
jj.
#
*1
%
/✓/'
m
Cf
w
%
m
m
%
%
m
m
I
m
N
a
I
g®sl
\M
fttui
M
Vs
>\VA
•-V
J
$4
r
f
mm
mllli
,
paper saves
-*•
mon
• , 1
in your home
'HEN you put down linoleum in your home, an
W underlay of Lino Felt ensures that your linoleum
gives maximum wear, affords a soft resilient surface on
which to walk, and makes a sound-absorbent base for
domestic traffic. In addition, Lino Felt acts as an excellent
floor insulation, giving warmth in winter, coolness in
summer. Consequently, money which would have been
spent on heating, insulation, and in frequent linoleum
replacements is saved.
Lino Felt is a kind of paper, and is one of the products of
A.P.M.—Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.
In all, A.P.M. makes 160 kinds of paper and 140 kinds
of paperboard*. These are sold to other manufacturers
who make them into a great variety of finished products
that make work easier, or reduce costs, or make life more
pleasant in countless ways.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard, fibreboard and other
heavy-weight papers. Basically the same raiv materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in Victoria,
Botany, N.S.W., and Petrie, Q’ld. (under construction)
