

EL
\
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Sei>pelt can arrange im-
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Your nearest oilice of B. Seppelt & Sons
Ltd. will supply details of this service. Orders for
delivery in Great Britain before Christmas must be
placed before 16th November.
Full Details from
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E,
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64,
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
G.P.O.
G.P.O.
The Bulletin
INFILTRATING EXTERNAL AFFAIRS -page 25
4 ‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3948
Wednesday, October 12, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W, Australia, for transmission by Post a? a Newspapet_
KEW PALACE, OFTEN THE
RESIDENCE OF GEORGE III
AIUCH of Britain’s history is written
on the mellow walls of its ancient
castles and cathedrals, its stately
country houses and its palaces. They
reveal many styles of architecture, and
at Kew Palace, illustrated here, the
Dutch style can be seen to best
advantage. It stands in the Royal
Botanic Gardens at Kew beside the
Thames on the western outskirts of
London.
The mansion was originally known
as Dutch House, and it first became a
Royal residence when it was leased to
Queen Caroline, wife of George 11,
who created Kew Gardens. In 1731
Frederick, Prince of Wales, took up
residence at Kew, and after his death
and that of his wife, the house was
often the residence of George 111.
Kew Palace is famous for its associa-
tions with the Hanoverian dynasty.
Queen Charlotte died at Kew in 1818
at the age of seventy-two. Although
she had fifteen children, no grandchild
remained to her after the tragic death
of George IV’s daughter, Princess
Charlotte; an event which was followed
by a scramble for respectability and
legitimate heirs by many of George
IV’s brothers.
The Palace, which is open to the
public, no longer serves as a Royal
residence; it contains some attractive
pieces of furniture, some pleasant
Dutch pictures, and its interior decora-
tion is in keeping with the Dutch style
of architecture.
No. 261: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
BUSH BALLADISTS
The anthology of Australian Bush
Ballads now published by Angus and
Robertson, and compiled by Douglas
Stewart and Nancy Keesing, is a work
that had to be done for the sake of
Australian literary history as well as
for the enjoyment of readers; and it
could hardly have been done better.
Out of a vast mass of material the
best has been selected and produced
in a handsome format which any Aus-
tralian with a respect for his country’s
tradition must have on his book-
shelves.
I handle this anthology with a pleas-
ing sense of an aspiration achieved
without any exertion on my part. For
years I meditated compiling such a
work,' for it was obvious with the
passing of the bush ballad that signifi-
cant examples of it should be collected
in book-form. The culture of every
country begins with its folk-songs, and
its later sophistication owes much to
their inspiration. Burns turned back
to the ancient Scottish minstrelsy for
much of the form and spirit of his
immortal lyrics, and Beethoven also
drew many of his themes from folk-
songs.
But when I contemplated the labo
involved in compiling a selection of
the ballads resolution fainted into my
boots. I have been in touch with the
editors of this anthology while they
were at work on it, and commendec
the discretion, or funk, which stallec
me off from attempting such
laborious job. Every page of the big
“Bulletin” files was turned for a pos
sible item. Libraries were searched
a vast mass of defunct printed-mattei
sifted; hundreds of books of verse
examined; in short, over 150 years o::
journalism and publishing brough
under an exacting inspection. All tha
apart from the sifting and resifting of
selected material for its precise relation
to the ballad-form.
Now we have the ballads from the
bushranging days down to World War
I, neatly arranged in their relation to
the various aspects of outback life, in
a dozen or more sections ranging from
“Bushranging” to “Tall Stories,” from
“The Irish” to “Horses and Horsemen.’
I read them through from first to last
page, and was aware of a unity they
made both in an outlook on life and
on the aesthetic of the ballad itself. The
better qualities of verse absorbed the
lesser, but all were equally pregnant
with vitality.
No doubt the great period of the
ballad was in the ’nineties, with
“Banjo” Paterson as its dominant
expression. Not that the ballad in
that era was greatly respected as
form of art. It passed as a casual pro-
duct of journalism, and the poets striv-
ing for a more difficult and subtler
verse-form hated it. That was inevit-
able, with a large public eagerly read-
ing the balladists and the poems of
those poets unread. I recall that I
was ashamed to admit that I had a
sneaking partiality for the ballads; but,
then, my work did not come into com-
petition with them. I illustrated a
good many of them in “The Bulletin”
and in book-form, and the fact that so
many snatches of them remained in my
mind over the years is the evidence
that they had in them the stuff that
endures. But now that major poetry
is written in Australia, antagonism to
the ballad no longer exists. Indeed,
some very brilliant poetry has been
written of late years in the ballad-
form—but that has been the product
of a technical command over poetic
idiom. The ballad proper, as exempli-
fied in this anthqlogy, was a spon-
taneous outburst emanating from the
people at large.
I do not think the balladists them-
selves had any sense of conflict be-
tween tljat poetry which seeks an image
for reality, and the easy running
verses which make a transcript of it.
In my talks with Paterson I do not
remember that poetry was ever men-
tioned, but I do remember him dis-
cussing the old bush songs that he was
collecting at that time. And the only
reference to verse that I remember
Lawson making was that, in his
opinion, “Mary Pity Women” was
Kipling’s greatest poem; which I think
is a sufficient estimate of Henry’s
response to poetry. Though in the
’nineties every youth with an oppressed
spinal-column was industriously writ-
ing imitations of Kipling’s too-efficient
machine-made verses, I’m glad to note
that he had hardly any effect on the
bush balladists. Gordon, it must be
admitted, with his “Sick Stockrider”
and his “How We Beat the Favorite,”
did set a key which vastly stimulated
the writing of ballads, but the faculty
and the urge to express it were there
already; products of a tremendously
enlivened sense for life as it was lived
in the outback.
Life in the bush had already been
established in a tradition by the men
who had mastered its tough conditions.
Theirs was no longer the haphazard
struggle of the early colonists, who
had no ebullient urge to chant ballads
about it. But the subsequent genera-
tions, born into the bush, knew
how to cope with it. Heroic
figures emerged from them: drovers
who brought the sheep overland
in periods of drought; teamsters
who got the wool-bales through,
bogged to the axles in mud; mailmen
who swam their horses across flooded
rivers; prospectors who explored
unknown country in quest of gold;
ringers of the shearing-sheds and riders
no outlaw could throw. Men were
tested by a severe standard of excel-
lence in all these vocations, and most
of all by their courage and endurance
under appalling hardships, where
failure often meant a lonely death in
the desert. The spirit engendered by
such a life had to find a voice. Those
tough denizens of the outback already
had their oral tradition, carried from
coast to coast of Australia by the
drovers, shearers, teamsters and
miners. So the balladists arrived to
give their campfire yarns the enduring
reality of the written word ...
And an amazingly complete job
they made of it. Every aspect of bush
life is covered by this anthology. There
is no pretence of psychological
subtlety in the presentation of its
inhabitants. Labelled Bill or Jim, the
individual is submerged in the type.
One set of characters does for all.
Only the bushrangers are named as
real identities; for the rest, a drover,
a shearer, a teamster, a miner, a
squatter, a cocky-farmer, a swagman,
serve each balladist impartially.
It is almost exclusively a male earth.
Women were few and far between in
the vast, arid spaces of the outback. A
drover’s wife, a cocky - farmer’s
daughter or a shanty barmaid about
make up the list of available femininity,
and the barmaid is presented as a
rapacious harpy rather than the
gracious consoler of man’s amorous
ardors. Ladies of the squattocracy
were of a social altitude not to be
scaled by the tough denizens of the
shearing-shed, though there is one
dolorous ballad by a rouseabout crav-
ing one of those ladies to come down
from Olympus and share his humble
lot. A girlless earth is the inspiration
of Lawson’s enchanting “Shearer’s
Dream”: —
Oh, I dreamt I shore in a shearin’-shed,
and it was a dream of joy,
For every one of the rouseabouts was a
girl dressed up as a boy . . .
There was three of them girls to every
chap, and as jealous as they could be—
There was three of them girls to every
chap, and six of them picked on me;
We was draftin’ them out for the home-
ward track and sharin’ them round
like steam,
When I woke with my head in the blazin’
sun to find twas a shearer’s dream.
I regard this as an inspired chant,
for it is every man’s dream. In short,
casually written as most of the ballads
are, they present the outback of their
day with a vividness that no later
reconstruction can hope to do. Most
important of all, they compact in stark
terms all that is admirable in the
national ego. There is in them no
taint of that sentimentality which sheds
a tear for man’s tragic lot. The major
note of the ballads is a rejection of
false sentiment. Death is a theme for
sardonic humor. The bushman carting
home the corpse of a mate who has
pledged him to have it decently buried,
when caught in the rain at night ejects
the corpse from its coffin and takes
cover in it himself. Two roistering
drunks prop a dead mate at the bar o
a pub and insist on buying drinks f
him. In that little elegy for a ma
who has perished in the desert (poet
in my opinion)
The coolibahs quiver,
The snakewood moans,
And the bower-birds play
With Lin Bower’s bones,
sentiment is rejected with a shrug
humor: —
They buried him there
With the Chinese cook . . .
And for irreverence to Omnipotenc
and its pantomime heaven nothin
could be better than the swearin
bullocky “Holy Dan” and the rough
riding “My Mate Bill.”
But in his admirable prefac
Douglas Stewart has said everything
that need be said of the quality anc
significance of these ballads, and a]
I can contribute to it is some brie
notes on some of the balladists I knew
ghosts of my own past. “Banjo
Paterson, who has the leading place i
this anthology, I saw a good deal o
at various times, but I could not claii
intimacy with him. I never knew any
one who could. Emotional warmt
of any sort was not a commodity h
dealt in. A great horseman in his time
with his hawklike, handsome face, cu
in hard, precise lines, and his- slightly
hooded eyes, which looked past but no
at one, he presents himself to m
always as the living embodiment o
the ballad itself; the national ego com
pacted in one man.
Ted Dyson, of the “Rhyme
from the Mines,” I knew inti
mately from my earliest days. He
also, was a typical product of the era
defined by the ballads, with a pungen
wit derisive of what Nietzsche callec
the vulgar display of generous emotion
He had worked as a miner in the bij
Ballarat mines of his youth, and stii
had the stocky, muscular figure
acquired by hard physical labor when
I knew him in his maturity. He made
a considerable income from freelance
journalism, turning out verse, short
stories, pars and articles with amazing
facility. Too much facility. Of all his
works, I think, only his best mining
stories and his “Factory ’Ands” wil
live. Both should be republished.
Randolph Bedford, represented here
by a goldmining ballad, “The Days of
’84.” was another who squandered a
faculty for easy writing, but he hac
not in him the quality of mind to pro-
duce much of lasting value. As
mining engineer he covered all the
early goldfields, and had a superb
mass of first-hand material if he had
been gifted with the art to use it effec-
tively. Short and broad-built, with
bald head, a predatory hooked nose
and a big blond moustache, he was
dynamo of inexhaustible energy.
Arrogant, pugnacious, witty, with a
Falstaffian sense of humor, he
dominated any group he foregathered
with. I never knew another man with
such a command over swift incisive
speech, and he was also the best
raconteur I ever listened to, but when
he wrote those yarns it was astonish-
ing to note how pedestrian they were.
No writer can be afflicted with a
greater curse than rhetorical ease of
speech. Bedford’s novels are forgotten
and his prolific output of verse has
gone the same road. I could never
away with his ballads myself; there
was too much cloak-and-dagger fustian
in them. He was much given to recit-
ing them in bars, and I must admit
that in that sympathetic setting the fire
and energy with which he • delivered
one of his piratical ballads made it
sound prodigiously well. It was the
sound that bemused one’s critical
faculty. As a personality, Randolph
was really a tremendous figure, and I
would overload this review if I gave
instances of the devastating things I
have heard him say when flooring an
opponent in a conflict of opinion.
Of the lesser balladists who appear
in the anthology there was Alexander
Montgomery, that gentlemanly man.
Very erect, very precise of speech, with
a clipped brown beard, his talk
emanated a flavor of scholarly erudi-
tion, and he always seemed to stand
apart from the Saturday-morning
group of “Bulletin” camp-followers
who gathered at the front counter to
collect small sums owing, or cadge
something on account, before depart
ing in a body to the pub two doors u
George-street. He was on “Th
Bulletin” staff when I first joined it
but left later.
The name of “Steele Grey,” of th
ballads of “Post-hole Mick” and “Th
Girl at Native Dog,” hooks out of th
cheerful limbo of my student days
Melbourne a hazy, boozy, whiskerec
moonface wearing a high, flat-crownec
boxer-hat, and the rest of it attired in
respectable grey trousers and a blac]
cutaway tail-coat; strange garniture fo
a bush-balladist, though he at least so
far authenticated that profession by
never going abroad without a bottle
of rum—whi£h he called his baby-
in his coat-tail pocket . . . for which
he was always welcome when chance
doddered him into one of our student
groups. Anybody in those days who
his verses published in “The
Bulletin” was distinguished above the
common human herd.
The name of Sorenson —
Though many ask; ’tis a nut to crack,
Where old Bill Brown is now;
He was heard of last on the Prospect
T rack
Astride of a camel cow—
fills another blank space in memory,
but he was a genuine bush product:
awkward, reticent, slow-spoken, with
sleepy pale eyes and of such a general
sandyness that his face merged into one
tone with his hair, which was of such
a fuzzy texture that it looked more
like fur than hair. I recall that hair
bringing down great confusion on me;
for, being with A. G. Stephens in his
office, I chanced to remark that Soren-
son reminded me of a native bear.
Within a short time of my making that
casual comparison some imp of malice
elected to lure Sorenson into the office,
on which A.G. greeted him with
“Lindsay’s just been saying that you
look like a native bear, and so you
do.” I never met Sorenson after that
without seeing “native bear” in his
eye.
Well here they all are, balladists of
mark and forgotten ghosts—Paterson
and Lawson, Brady and Dennis, “Dry-
blower” Murphy and John O’Brien,
“Riverina” and Roderic Quinn, Dyson
and W. T. Goodge, Ogilvie and Bar-
croft Boake, Adam Lindsay Gordon
and “The Breaker” —compacted be-
tween the covers of a book destined to
be the classic compilation of the bush
ballads. Already they make a time-
factor which has nothing to do with
time as ticked off on clocks. Time is
only measurable as a content of human
consciousness, and now that poetry has
reached its maturity in Australia, these
bush ballads seem to have been written
in a period as remote from us as the
Border ballads were to the Eliza-
bethans. Already they have acquired
a patina of charm like Percy’s
“Reliques” of the Border ballads.
Norman Lindsay.
The Evangelist: Howard Otway
(Seeker and Warburg). In the Middle
Western cornbelt, revival-meetings used
t 0 be a form (° ften the onl y form ) of
entertainment available to the poverty-
stricken farmers’families. The evange-
ilsts supplied surrogates for drama, art,
literature and, too often, religion,
Slster Edlth Flemming ,in this novel
graduated from being the beautiful
unsatisfied wife of a genuinely and
conventionally religious preacher to a
loveless, unprincipled, hypocritical and
famous national figure who could fill
the Chicago stadium and induce a
crook t 0 s P end a mi H lon dollars on a
tabernacle for her. And then she met
a famous painter of stained-glass win-
dows—a genuine and daemonic artist
who succeeds in stripping her soul and
bod y to ori g inal nakedness, but who
was not sufficiently sensitive to re-clothe
hls Pygmalion with either dignity or
hope. So the novel ends tragically—
and flatly. It nearly was a really good
novek but like so many recent authors
writer couldn’t decide whether this
was sadre or sentiment and fell between
two s t o ols. Howard Otway is not a
Sinclair Lewis yet. But he has some-
tj^n„
s ' ' ‘


Contemporary Cane
Direct from Hong Kong
The real cane story
Only the highest quality cane is
used in this light, easy-to-move
furniture, and it’s made to last
by oriental craftsmen who have
centuries of knowledge behind
them. All the latest designs are
here in our Contemporary Shop,
and our experts will be glad to
assist you with your choice. In
our Contemporary Shop we
have a range of modern furniture
and furnishings that can not be
equalled in Sydney.
A. Woven cane round tray table is 25
inches in diameter. Priced at £5/16/-
B. Woven cane chair is made for all-
purpose use. Priced at £4/16/1 each.
C. Teapoy with fixed legs. £3/12/5
D. Saucer chairs priced at £6/10/- ea.
E. Rectangular table with tray top, size
36 inches x 18 inches. Price £7/13/6
Matchiny extra items
Our buyers have gathered a
wonderful variety of con-
temporary accessories from all
over the world.
A. We have a large range of contem-
porary lamps and shades in a variety
of shapes, colours and designs. Illus-
trated lamp base priced at £3/16/6,
and the shade priced at only £2/4/6.
B. American style small cushions in
modern colours and textures. From 30/-
G. Salad set in smooth wood. Large
wooden salad bowl £6/6/-, salad
servers 10/11 each.
’
wm&
' A
I 43m
v
m i
m '
' "*
:: :
m.
. .
SS f'Wf.'t- ).< *
- ■■
V.
v v
■'
Sfr
m
;:>
m
■ i m
11111111
•«:
—■
Wm, imm
:m. : -
vBi' i * p*
•*!,'».'* 4 i?@BL ,'T
■: ; -
i 1
/
i m
mm
m
i
T
■-■■: ' : -
:
- ■•:
'*»!
'A VX
:■■<■J
. . :
CONTEMPORARY SHOP, THIRD FLOOR. BOX 2712, G.P.O. TELEPHONE:


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 12, 19SS
Vol. 76—No. 3948
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;]
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
IMPEACHMENT AT THE POLLS
THE Federal session—about the most barren Can-
berra has known for years—is teetering to its end.
It has been a sovereign illustration of the need for
a strong Opposition and for solid parties with
members who are able to devote themselves to their
jobs as Parliamentarians and not to internal strife.
It might be said of this Parliament that it
suffered from thallium-poisoning almost from birth.
Its hair began to fall out under the influence of
the Petrov affair before it had more than sprouted.
And although it is the fashion with certain sections
of Parliament and the press to suggest that the
Petrov allegations have proved a mare’s-nest, the
clutch hatched by the mare has been about as lively
and terrifying as any in living memory.
Every recent happening in Federal politics
has been dominated by the proceedings and reve-
lations of the commission and its witnesses. The
outcome has tom the “Labor” party to bits and
revealed it for what it has become—a huddle of
divergent elements, mainly opportunist, cemented
together by self-interest and a keen sense of
self-preservation.
In the scatter which has resulted from the
revelations of witnesses and the Moscow docu-
ments “Labor” has ceased to be a party. The great
bulk of the membership of the Parliamentary party
makes no pretence to believe anything permanently.
It has adopted the Communist practice of tollowing
the line which seems to suit the needs of the
moment. It is Socialist today and non-Socialist
tomorrow; its only consistency is in its universal
willingness to oblige anybody who wants it to
oblige. At the election a year ago its leader was
almost in tears at the thought of the sufferings of
the downtrodden capitalist firms which were suffer-
rng the tyranny of the bmtal Sir Arthur Fadden,
the withholder of depreciation-allowances. Last
week and the week before it was outraged at the
atrocities being perpetrated against both the wage-
earner, who is being robbed of his pay-rises, and
the time-payment merchant, who is robbed of his
free hand. This week, when pensions are a matter
of debate, the cry will be that the pensioner comes
first—pensioners have a lot of votes, and their
numbers are steadily increasing.
Those Parliamentarians who are clinging to
the rock of Dr. Evatt and his Communist policy
of supporting Russia in Asia and at Geneva are
agreed at the moment on only one issue—the need
to save their political lives, come what may. At
the same time a good many of them are not
unmindful of the perilous ahd rotten state of the
rock to which they are clinging, and they will hang
on only so long as it suits them.
Meanwhile, they have the knowledge that in
supporting Dr. Evatt they have killed the Parlia-
ment and perhaps killed the “Labor” party through
dissension. A leader whose department, while he
was Minister for External Affairs, was provably
riddled with Communists, Communist sympathisers
and. associates, some of whom were pouring infor-
mation from even the Minister’s room itself into
the lap of a Russian spy, seems scarcely either an
inspiring or a likely choice for next Prime Minister
And the possibility that the people will be given a
choice within a few weeks or months is lending no
zest to those members of his party who will be
offered at the polls, along with him, at bargain
prices. But it is lending incentive to those who
have the decision to make to send Parliament to the
country again.
On present appearances, though Mr. Menzies
has given no indication of when and how, the
chances seem to favor an early election; perhaps
as early as December or as late as May.
Whatever the date, it will be an election in which
the issue will be primarily whether the people
intend to keep in Parliament not the Government
itself but an Opposition which is against defending
the approaches to Australia, which is against pro-
viding the means of defence to the limit agreed on
with our allies, which supports Russian rather than
Western policy and whose financial policy is merely
to oppose anything the Government proposes. The
electors can scarcely overlook that the Evatt party is
to a large extent politically financed and supported
by the funds of Communist-run unions and is under
strong suspicion of having received a large sum
of money directly from a Communist union to pay,
or help pay, for its defence of the Communists at
the Anti-Red referendum; that this money, on the
basis of the somewhat startling evidence given
before the Petrov commission, may have come from
Moscow, via Mr. Sharkey. I
It is the knowledge that public opinion should
be informed on this question that will be the
decisive factor in determining whether an election
will be held. The campaign, if it comes, will, in
effect, constitute an impeachment by the Govern-
ment of the Opposition on the gravest of charges
—the charge of consorting with treason —that can
be levelled against a corporate body of men in
responsible positions and who have sworn allegiance.
How Dr. Evatt can defend himself and his
followers in the face of their record and Hobart
policy it is difficult to say. They are in a spot in
which defence by bluster will scarcely serve them.
And Red herrings have become a drug on the
market.
To the Liberal party and especially to the back-
benchers, the temptation to go to the polls is over-
whelming under present conditions. The reports
from the electorates are such as to indicate a prob-
able debacle for “Labor.” Forecasts go to the point
of holding out hopes of winning two extra seats,
Perth and the new Swan, in W.A.; one seat in
S.A.; one in Tasmania; two in Queensland and a
double-handful in Victoria and N. S. Wales.
Only two of these, Hume in N. S. Wales and
Leichhardt in Queensland, would be Country-party
seats, and even if Liberal hopes were only partly
realised there would be at least a long chance that
the dream of the Liberal organisations of the
Eastern States would come true and that it would
be possible to form an all-Liberal Government
with the Country party on the cross-benches.
The idea has attractions for some Liberal back-
benchers with whom the reconstruction of the
Ministry, the retirement of older Ministers and the
introduction of a good deal of new blood is almost
as much a primary issue as the expulsion of Dr.
Evatt and some of his henchmen from Parliament.
The session is already dreaming its way to the
close with the Speaker still ill, Parliamentary disci-
pline at an all-time low level and speakers on the
estimates proceeding with their tasks with the air
of sleep-walkers.
Cahill's Underground Workers
THOSE eccentric people who delight in inventing
or popularising long or pretentious names for
occupations or pastimes for which perfectly satis-
factory names already exist—mortician, lubritorium
and fruitologist are frightful examples—gave the
world a few years ago the word speleologist. This,
as a#y radio-quizmaster or crossword-puzzle addict
can now tell inquirers, denotes a person who
explores or is interested in underground caves and
caverns. The tnen who first ventured into the
Jenolan, Naracodrte or Yallingup caves were prob-
ably content to think of themselves as cave-explorers
and that only when actually engaged in the task.
The “ologist” suffix seems to imply a full-time
occupation, and most of those who grope their way
through caves do so only as a pastime. A spele-
ologist, surely, should be on the job all the time;
subterranean passages should be his whole life.
There is one bunch of men who by this defini-
tion might almost be classed as true speleologists;
the interest in underground passages displayed by
members of the Cahill Government in New South
Wales amounts almost to an obsession. This interest
does not manifest itself so much in the exploring
of existing caves as in the planning or dreaming of
new ones. It is almost as though they are toying
with a theory that all the world’s problems can be
solved by digging holes. Is it the parking problem
that presents difficulty? Dig a hole. Pedestrian
traffic? Dig a hole. Congestion on the Harbor
Bridge? Dig a hole.
The Cahills inherited quite a collection of
subterranean passages from previous
but, generally speaking, these have not interested
them overmuch; their fancy turns rather to new
excavations. One such cavern was brought to
public notice three years ago in the form of a
subway under College-street, Sydney, in the vicinity
of St. Mary’s Cathedral.
It was rather a mystery tunnel. No one seemed
to have asked for it, and official sources were
unusually reticent as to who authorised it, and
why. And when it was finished no one used it.
For a while questions were asked about its cost—
an estimated £48,000, which ultimately proved
very inadequate, even without allowing for the
replacement of tiles which developed a habit of
disappearing from its walls—but after a while it
was forgotten. As far as is known it is still there.
If so, then the National Trust should place a plaque
upon it to record the fact that it is the first concrete
evidence of the speleological tendencies of Ne
ooutn Wales “Labor” leaders. It remains the on
concrete example; the rest are still in the menta
blueprint stage.
Among these is Mr. Mallam’s dream of
tunnel under the Harbor, which Premier Cahi
described in a broadcast as a “useful and constru
tive idea, but which he seems subsequently to ha
forgotten or perhaps he preferred to leave it :
me daydream stage for fear it might be spoilt
crude handling. The Harbor tunnel would ha
been a long, skinny sort of cave. Much shorter, b
tar tatter, was Lud Mayor Hills’s first speleologica
fantasy a big cavern under Hyde Park, to be usee
to solve the parking problem. Not that the Hyd
: c &ve is the exclusive dream-property of tl
Lud Mayor; if he claimed the copyright he’d fin
many of his colleagues disputing it with him. B
Hills, who is also “Labor” M.L.A. for Phillip, ha
several other ideas for underground activities;
seems to be challenging Mallam for the title o;
Chief Speleologist.
One of Hills’s recent burrowings brough
forth a suggestion for speeding-up the train
service in Sydney’s underground tunnel
Having decided that too much time w <
wasted in emptying the trains of the;
passengers, he advocated the introduction of movin,
platforms, travelling at the same speed as the trains
so that the passengers could step on and off with
out the necessity of stopping the trains. At th
time he made this proposal the Minister for Rail
ways and his Chief Commissioner were busily
engaged in a hot argument over another tunnel, so
the Hills plan attracted scant notice, but this didn’
deter the member for Phillip. He took thought anc
added another tunnel to his mental-collection. This
was a subway under Queen’s-square, to cater fo:
passengers alighting from the underground trains
at St. James station. There is more merit in this
suggestion than in most of the others. If a subway
is needed anywhere in the vicinity of St. James
station, that is the logical spot, as was pointed oui
by many people at the time the College-street tunne'
was built near by.
But why on earth go to the expense of a
new tunnel when there is a perfectly good one going
to waste just around the comer? Surely it would be
a much better proposition to wrap up the College-
street subway and take it around to Queen’s-square,
where it could be laid down at the most convenient
spot without going to all the trouble and expense of
a new excavation? Of course the question then
arises; Would the people use it? Mr. Hills
apparently fears they wouldn’t, for he has dis-
covered that they don’t use existing subways, and
he thinks he knows why. It’s because they don’t
like the steps. From problem to solution is no
distance at all to the Phillip speleologist. The
answer, he says, is to equip the subways with
escalators.
The problem which prevented the Minister for
Railways and the Chief Commissioner from giving
the moving-platform idea the attention its originator
thought it deserved concerned a tunnel constructed
long before the current epidemic of speleological
fever. This was the Scarborough railway-tunnel on
the South Coast line. It appears that Sydney “Daily
Mirror” reported Commissioner Winsor as warning
of the imminence of a major disaster owing to the
condition of the Scarborough tunnel. He was
quoted as saying that his department had appealed
to the Minister, Mr. Wetherell, a number of times
for £2 million “to reconstruct the line and build a
new tunnel.” He had had no reply to his latest
letter.
Mr. Wetherell then denied the truth of this
statement, and for some days Minister and Com-
missioner were kept busy explaining what had been
and what had not been said. Ultimately the
Minister took a party of speleologists, including
Mr. Winsor, the two top-ranking engineers of the
Railways Department and the members for the
district down to inspect the tunnel. “The con-
clusion by all present, including the Commissioner
for Railways, was that the tunnel was safe.” Mr.
Winsor said his remarks had been wrongly inter-
preted by the “Daily Mirror,” and Mr. Wetherell
said “one of the most sensational stories of our
time ends with a most sensational indictment by
the Commissioner for Railways of a newspaper.”
All of this, of course, was just clean fun to provide
an excuse for members of the Cahill Speleological
Club to practise their hobby.
To explain this obsession of the Cahills for
tunnels and suchlike in ordinary terms is rather
difficult. It seems more a task for the psychologist.
Perhaps it is an echo of adolescence; of bygone
visits to Luna Park with ninepences squandered in
the River Caves and the Tunnel of Love. Or may-
be it is an instinctive urge, in a world living in the
shadow of the hydrogen-bomb, to get underground
to shelter and safety. A Freudian psychologist
with political knowledge might follow the safety
idea even further and explain the outbreak of
speleology as a subconscious desire of “Labor”
Ministers, after 14 years of the cares of office and
with stormy election-clouds looming-up, to creep
back into the comforting womb of Time, safe from
the troubles and wrath that threaten them.


OLD ACT—NEW PERFORMER


PLAIN ENGLISH
Unity in Effort
In tackling problems similar to those
which face Australia, Mr. Butler,
Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer, is
able, with confidence, to demand “more
sacrifices” and to know that even the
trade-union leaders will co-operate to see
that rising costs in contrast to cheap
labor and long-hours competition from
the Continent do not produce disaster.
He has the advantage of knowing that
large blocs of key-unions are not led, as
in Australia, by key men who deliber-
ately work for chaos and revolution and
who therefore have no interest in pre-
serving the solvency of the country.
But it is an inescapable fact that what-
ever the United Kingdom does under
present conditions can only be a pallia-
tive of difficulties which increase yearly.
Nearly all the leeway has been taken up,
short of reducing living-standards. The
out-of-date farming system of thirty years
ago has been replaced by the most highly-
mechanised efficiency in the world, with
a background of untouchable quality in
stock and farm-produce and a know-how
in basic agricultural matters born of
hundreds of years of experience.
British industry is the world-leader in
invention, even if the country has not the
large-scale domestic market of the United
States, which enables it to develop the
techniques initiated in Europe, or the
cheap labor of Germany and Japan,
which gives them a flying start in the
export-markets.
The population is still growing; in
England and Wales there are 45-million
people on a space five-eighths the size
of Victoria, and living at standards nearly
100 p.c. better than pre-war. To defend
this population and the other six-million
in Scotland and Northern Ireland, a tax
which runs well on towards 9s. in the £
has to be levied.
The limits are being reached in a
country which stripped itself of every-
thing, including the flower of its youth,
in two great wars inside a generation.
The need is for a redistribution of
British population on a larger scale and
in a more organised way, along with a
redistribution of industry. Modern com-
municatioris have begun to pull what
used to be a scattered Empire into a
closely-knit Commonwealth of which all
parts can now be brought into contact
by the fastest aircraft inside any 24 hours,
while the radio-telephone makes conver-
sation between London and Sydney a
commonplace.
The Conservative-party conference at
Bournemouth has been looking at
Britain’s problems with these facts in
view. It was urged by one speaker that
the U.K. set out to help develop the
resources of the undeveloped parts of
the British Commonwealth rather than
to look fruitlessly for salvation through
waiting for the United States to lower its
tariff walls. The conference passed a
resolution urging the Government to a
bolder and more imaginative policy to
strengthen Commonwealth economic and
traditional ties.
There is certainly a great deal to be
done in the redistribution of British Com-
monwealth population and capital to
develop resources in the newer Domin-
ions and to keep the British racially pre-
dominant in areas like parts of Australia
and Canada where British blood is being
heavily infused with that of influxes from
Europe.
The subject might well become the
central theme for discussion at the Prime
Ministers’ Conference which is to be
held in London next June and at which
all the Dominions and leading colonies
will be represented. Not only the future
of the U.K. but of all British countries
is involved.
Hire-purchase Curb
As a sequel to their talks with the Prime
Minister a few weeks ago representatives
of 43 hire-purchase finance companies
agreed last week on a policy designed
to limit the growth of h.-p. business.
These companies include all the major
operators and they are trying to get those
retailers and semi-Government bodies
which finance their own h.-p. sales to
co-operate. In future the companies will
require a minimum deposit of 15 per
cent, on electrical and household equip-
ment (under N. S. Wales law the legal
minimum deposit is 10 per cent.). For
motor-cars the minimum deposit will be
33 per cent, and the maximum period for
repayment 2\ years.
In addition the companies will put
limits to the expansion of their business
by pegging their outstandings to the
September, 1955, figure plus 10 per cent.
The huge growth in h.-p. business in the
last few years has been largely accounted
for by phenomenal sales of motor-
vehicles. The import-restrictions will, in
any case, reduce the figures considerably
this year; the extra cars just won’t be
there to sell.
As far as domestic appliances are con-
cerned—washing-machines, refrigerators,
radios and so on—there is the complica-
tion that several big concerns have
recently been selling on time-payment
instead of hire-purchase, thus avoiding
the no-deposit ban.
To what extent the agreed-upon curbs
will affect the overall borrowing of the
hire-purchase finance companies, which
have been paying fantastic interest-rates
for short-term money while banks have
been limited to low rates both on over-
drafts and deposits and Government
loans have been difficult to fill, remains
to be seen,
Ominous Portents
The position in Morocco and Algeria
and the resulting French withdrawal
from the United Nations Assembly poses
a problem for U.N.O. in which its
existence is at stake. The Asian and
African “nations” have exhibited their
power to dominate U.N.O. with the help
of the Communist bloc. Moscow is only
too ready to play their game, to humiliate
the West and to promote the tactic of
world revolutionary conquest through
the local Communist-party agitation
against colonialism. The plan works in
two stages —oust in the name of freedom
the Western Power which is the suzerain,
leaving a weak, inexperienced and Un-
protected local Government; then Red-
ant the weaker Government, subvert its
authority and take over.
The tactic may be seen at various
stages of advancement in a number of
countries from Indonesia, where at the
elections the Communists have polled
5,500,000 votes —mostly cast by hysterical
and illiterate mobs who have no idea
what Communism is—India, where the
Government is imperceptibly moving
slowly but surely into the arms of
Moscow, and Egypt, which is to be
armed from Czechoslovakian factories
under Soviet control.
France is a Great Power, possessing
the veto. It is also one of the most
liberal-minded Powers, with a traditional
leaning towards the Soviet and Com-
munism, which Moscow has been only
too eager to capitalise. Such efforts have
ended disastrously before, and France
has not forgotten the betrayal of 1939-40
when the Russians left them in the lurch
and formed an alliance with Germany.
The latest event came as a cold shock to
the French and their action was typical.
Now the position is rather frightening.
They have divorced themselves from
U.N.O. on the grounds of its having
exceeded the powers of its charter by
interfering in the affairs of an area which
is considered to be part of metropolitan
France. They have broken at a stage
when the fate of Indo-China is being
moulded and when world-peace plans are
in the preliminary stages of discussion.
The sincerity of the Communist bloc
in its apparently conciliatory “peace”
programme can be judged by, the fact
that the break seems to be regarded as
a matter for jubilation in Moscow —as
something which has made a rift in the
Western front and which might provide
Communism with an excuse to interfere
in Morocco and Algeria in the same way
as it did in Spain before World War II;
there is little doubt that the Moroccan
rebels are being armed from somewhere
—and it is not from Western arsenals.
To the West the situation is not re-
assuring. U.N.0., supposedly a world
body, is rapidly becoming an organisa-
tion external to Europe. Save for
Britain there is not a single big European
Power participating. France has with-
drawn its delegation. Italy, Western
Germany and Spain are not members.
In Asia two out of the three greatest
Powers—Japan and Red China —are still
outside: The only strength on the side
of peace among the Great Powers is in
the hands of the Anglo-Saxons. And the
point is being reached when they will
have difficulty in remaining in the
organisation.
The seeds of world war are in the
North African rebellions, which seem to
have been fomented from without and on
a grand scale. There is nothing the
Kremlin would like better than to gener-
ate a Moslem crusade against the West.
Its policy of embroiling the United States
with China and South-East Asia with the
British is similar to its plan of the ’thirties
to promote the embroilment of Germany
with the rest of Western Europe and thus
to weaken everybody involved to the
point at which Russia could take over
some or all of Western territory.
A glimpse at the world map will show
how rich was the encouragement to the
Kremlin plotters to repeat the technique
when opportunity offered.
One-man Buses
Once again the New South Wales
“Labor” Government has been brought
face to face with the problem of decid-
ing whether the primary purpose of a
public-transport system is to serve the
public or the men employed to run it.
The problem has been with them for
years and various Transport Ministers
have from time to time uttered bold
words which encouraged the thought that
the public interest was about to be de-
clared paramount. But the words have
seldom been translated into deeds ; union
demands, with or without Trades Hall
backing, have usually won the day or at
least secured a compromise. The latest
“crisis” arose out of Auditor-General
Campbell’s report, which mentioned
among many other interesting items that
in the last financial year the department
could have saved £BOO,OOO by making
full use of its fleet of 256 one-man buses.
Owing to the opposition of the tram
and bus unions only a limited use had
been made of this type of bus; even so
Mr. Campbell estimated that they had
saved £300,000.
It then came out that a committee,
under the chairmanship of Mr. Moloney,
Minister without Portfolio, had been set
up last July to inquire into ways and.
means of expanding the one-man bus ser-
vices. During the period since then Mr.
Moloney had not only been without a
portfolio; he had also been without a
committee —not one meeting had been
held, chiefly owing to the unwillingness
of the unions concerned to cc-operate.
Last Tuesday Premier Cahill announced
that the committee had been disbanded
and the matter had been referred back
to Transport Minister Wetherell. Mr.
Wetherell then told the press that the
buses would be put into operation on 18
additional routes in Sydney and New-
castle “in about a fortnight,” and that
others would be added later. This an-
nouncement brought from a union official
the retort that “if this is intended as a
challenge, it will be accepted by the bus-
men.”
One-man buses similar to the type
used by the N. S. Wales Transport De-
partment are in operation in large cities
in many countries and reasonable opinion
holds that their use imposes no hard-
ships on the men who run them. That a
commonsense decision to do something
to cut down the huge transport-deficit
by putting to economic use assets which
are lying idle in the bus-depots should
be taken as a “challenge” is indicative of
the irresponsible spirit which actuates
the Tram and Bus Employees’ Union.
And this spirit has been encouraged by
the attitude of compromise and sur-
render adopted over many years by the
Cahill Government in its dealings with
transport problems.
Late Closing at Canberra
“Mugga Way”: It is a little too early
to assess the real effects in Canberra of
10 p.m. closing, which is in operation
without the meal break which in N. S.
Wales gives publicans and breweries the
benefits of the six-o’clock swill plus the
extra money to be gained from opening
at night. On the first evening of the ex-
tended hours, a Saturday, a cloudburst
around 6 p.m. may have dampened the
spirits (if that is the correct phrase) of
those setting out to celebrate the new
freedom, and the Monday was a public
holiday, which was hardly a fair test.
The police have kept a watchful eye on
bars and lounges, and there has been
little drunkenness, although some exuber-
ance, which was perhaps natural in the
circumstances. One hotel, visited on the
last night of 6 p.m. closing, presented all
the disagreeable aspects of restriction —
a noisy crowd, a dirty floor, sloppy
counters and a piling-up of glasses as
zero-hour approached. At 6.20 p.m.
there were still about 20 men left, talking
loudly and with a fair amount of beer in
front of them.
The following night there were com-
paratively few left at 6.30 p.m., although
it was then legal to buy. Some came
along later, but one publiqan, spoiled,
perhaps, by years of concentrated and
hard drinking before six-o’clock, said the
evening was a “flop,” and that takings
would barely meet the extra wages cost.
The hotel - lounges, especially in one
hotel which has been putting on
an excellent floor - show for several
months, were well patronised by family
parties, and there was a good deal of
quiet and harmless celebration. Some
snacks and light refreshments were pro-
vided, and generally it could be said that
the excitement and the behavior were
better than expected by the police;
takings were less than hoped for by th
licensees. However, the combination o;:
doubtful weather and the holiday week
end, with its influx of visitors, made
fair assessment impossible. It may b
several weeks before the full impact o'
the change is known. One thing is cer
tain. The bars are less crowded at 6 p.m
and many regular drinkers are goin
home to dinner with less under their belt
than in the past. Some return to th
hotels after their meal. More do not
As the weather gets warmer, as th
hotels improve their entertainments anc
refreshments, and as Canberra people be
come accustomed to being able to drop
in for a drink at any reasonable time in
the evening, there may be more patron
and less consumption of liquor. Tim
will tell —but it is already apparent tha ;
the absence between 6 p.m-. and 6.3 b
p.m. of the “Time, please!” call is con
ducive to saner and more restrained
drinking.
Key to the Senate?
“In the ACT”: Few people seem to have
realised how greatly the whole political
situation has been changed by the death
of Senator McLeay, who was among the
Senators due to retire on June 30 next.
Even before his death, the Government
had been concerned at the prospect that
it might fail in South Australia, and in
South Australia alone, to secure that
majority of the Senate seats which it needs
in every State to hold its Senate
majority. “Labor” is less wracked by
dissension in South Australia than in
other States, and there had been doubt
whether the Government would win
three of the five vacancies there.
McLeay’s death will make the task
harder; it might even provide one
reason for deferring the poll for both
Houses until April or May.
There is another reason, also not gen-
erally realised. If the casual vacancy is
filled by the South Australian Govern-
ment, then that nominee (certain to be
a Liberal, of course) will sit only until
election-day, and not for the full un-
expired portion of McLeay’s term.
Therefore, if the Government holds an
election in December it risks losing con-
trol of the Senate from election-day.
This will happen if in South Australia
a “Labor” man, who is not one of the
four sitting Senators (two Liberal and
two “Labor”) now seeking re-election, is
the first non-Senator candidate elected —
in other words, if “Labor” wins three-to-
two. The first non-Senator elected will
take his seat at once to fill the vacancy,
holding it until June 30 next, and then
for six years. He will be in the Senate,
therefore, for the vital period to the end
of June, and if he is put there by a
December election, and proves to be
“Labor,” he will be in a position to
embarrass the Government considerably
for the ensuing six months.
Foreign-office Blues
From London: What’s done can’t be
undone, and it may well be that the
shock to the Foreign Office of the
Maclean-Burgess affair brought about
the very reorganisation that was so
badly, and sadly, needed.
But the general opinion is that the
explanations given in the White Paper
are lame and defensive, to say the least.
It seems incredible that the resources of
the Secret Service did not permit of a
24-hour surveillance at the time shortly
before the flight when Maclean was under
suspicion. Were the Macleans so
perspicacious that one extra person in
the isolated Surrey village of Tatsfield
would have been noticed? Moreover,
while security methods used in other
countries may be. anathema to the British
way of honoring the citizen’s liberty,
Maclean was surely no ordinary citizen.
He was a Counsellor in the Diplomatic
Service under suspicion of treason. Was
it too much to expect that he might have
been quietly buttonholed at the port of
embarkation?
The fumbling statements in Parlia-
ment and the hopelessly vain efforts that
were made to try to cover up one of the
biggest “stories” that has ever plagued
the tenacity of the popular press are also
evidences of muddled and unrealistic
(i Continued on next page)


thinking. Could not the Foreign Office
have killed the “story” before it grew to
such gigantic and far-reaching propor-
tions?
One disquieting fact, which the” public
finds impossible to assimilate, is how
Maclean (and, to a lesser degree, Burgess)
could continue to hold responsible posi-
tions tvhen they were notoriously
unstable and given to orgiastic binges in
public places. Something deeper than
class-consciousness is stirred when,, as it
seems, the “right social background” can
afford such protective extenuation.
A puzzling aspect is the obvious deter-
mination of the “other Power” to get
the two men, and, later, Maclean s wife
and family, behind the Iron Curtain.
Soviet Russia does not have the reputa-
tion of keen solicitation for the persons
of its spies, especially when they are no
longer able to function. Either the two
men are extremely valuable to them or
else —and more likely—it was feared that
interrogation might have led to dis-
closures so incriminating as to be
avoided at all costs.
POLITICAL POINTS
some obvious difficulties. A high propor-
tion of petrol was consumed by road-
using vehicles, but a large part of diesel-
fuel was consumed in stationary
industrial-engines and in other non-
road uses.
• •
Dr. Callaghan, S.A. Director of Agri-
culture, has warned wheatgrowers that
although there has been an increase in
wheat-production of 1.3 per cent, over
the past 16 years, it is not enough to
keep up with population-growth and
export requirements. He estimates that
an annual increase of 2.4 per cent, is
needed.
• •
N. S. Wales Libs, have very sensibly
decided to oppose any move for a rise
in Parliamentary salaries at present. At
the same time they, like their “Labor”
opponents and all parties at Canberra,
must feel somewhat envious of Queens-
land M.P.s who have just received a rise
of £451 10s. a year, retrospective to
July 1. At £2475 a year they are the
most-highly-paid M.P.s in Australia.
Gair’s men found a very simple
formula for ensuring that members did
not miss out on pay-rises; they passed
a law tying their salaries to those of
N. S. Wales is to re-introduce
quarterly-adjustments of the basic wage
for all workers under State awards.
Variations will be calculated on the
Commonwealth Statistician’s “C”-series
price-index. Trade-union pressure has
been on Cahill for some time, but
hitherto he had resisted. His surrender
now, at a time wfien he should be
urging restraint on the unions in the
matter of wage-demands, is on all-fours
with McGrrrrr’s premature introduction
of the 40-hour week. Of course, there’s
an election round the corner, as there
was on the earlier occasion.
• •
Clive Evatt had a “please explain”
session with the A.L.P. executive last
Wednesday. It isn’t clear yet who did
the explaining.
• •
After the Bolte-Cahill confab, on
uniform-taxation the Victorian Premier
announced that he intended to challenge
the u.-t. legislation in the High Court —
a threat made by his predecessor
McDonald, but not proceeded with.
Bolte has written to the P.M. asking for
return of taxing-powers and the High
Court appeal will follow if Menzies’s
reply is not satisfactory.
The joint statement issued by Bolte
and Cahill had all the marks of a com-
promise. The Vic. Premier appears to
be genuine in his desire for a return to
State income-taxing; the N. S. Wales
Premier appears to be pretending to be
genuine. A repeal of the uniform-taxa-
tion laws would rob Cahill of his favorite
excuse for financial mismanagement.
• •
All this outcry for decentralisation of
industry may not be wasted, after all.
The latest report issued by the Upper
Murray Regional Development and
Planning Committee remarks that “a
large brewery at Albury seems a certain
development if only for economy of
marketing,”
• •
British Labor went to its annual con-
ference at Margate on Monday with its
ears red after studying the report of its
probing committee which described
Labor as “an ageing party” with no
appeal to youth and complained at the
falling-off in numbers and enthusiasm of
voluntary helpers. Poor organisation
was blamed for losing the last election
and the report suggested that top party
leaders should be appointed as a perman-
ent directorate to supervise organisation.
• •
Nominations for preselection as
“Labor” candidates at the Queensland
State election closed on Saturday. Pre-
selection ballots will be held on
November 26.
• •
Jeff Bate, M.H.R. for Macarthur, com-
menting on a suggestion by A. R. Downer
(Angas) that fruit-juices might be sub-
stituted for milk as a free beverage for
schoolchildren:
I would hesitate to replace milk —that
delectable beverage from the queen of the
animal kingdom, the cow—with fruit-
juices. Anyone who fed a young calf on
milk, and then tried it on fruit-juices,
would soon see a difference in the animal.
Downer represents a dairying district;
Bate a fruitgrowing area. No, the other
way round!
• •
International politics in South
America aren’t as sporting as they used
to be. Argentina is demanding that
Paraguay expel ex-President Pjeron, who
has sought asylum there.
• •
Rates of duty on petrol are to be
“reviewed,” probably before next June,
but the Government will await the Tariff
Board’s report before acting. The P.M.
disclosed this in answering a “Labor”
question as to why no road-tax was
imposed on diesel-fuel, despite the dam-
age done to roads by the heavy vehicles
using it. He said that a decision on
diesel-fuel was being deferred until the
whole question of duty on petroleum
products was considered, but there were
“Mr. Menzies and Mr. Cahill appear to be involved in a battle of wits over the timing
of their elections.” —Press report.
"NO, YOU SHOW ME YOURS FIRST!"
under - secretaries. On Friday the
Industrial Court gave substantial rises
to the public service, so up went
members’ screws, too.
• •
.Esthetics in unexpected places! Tas-
manian Treasurer Madden, looking up
for a moment from the script of his
Budget-speech:
I might perhaps interrupt at this stage
to say that the Government has decided to
issue a new series of revenue-stamps. For
a long time I have felt that the present
design has no artistic merit whatever.
There might be an idea in this for Mr.
Cahill, whose revenue-stamps are also
devoid of artistic merit, and have the
additional disadvantage (since October 1)
of costing much more. New designs
might soften the blow.
• •
“Stromlo”: Of the 971,000 migrants
who arrived in the ten years to last June,
Britain contributed more than 473,000,
or about 48 per cent. Next came 113,000
Italians (11.6 per cent.), followed by
Poles, 72,000 (7.4); Dutch, 70,000 (7.2);
Germans, 42,000 (4.3); and Greeks,
31,000 (3.2). One surprising figure was
10,399 Americans —mostly ex-servicemen
who arrived soon after the war. The
Immigration Department is now concen-
trating mainly on Dutch, Germans,
Italians and Austrians—in addition to
British, of course. /
• •
Dr. J. J. McGirr, nephew of a
N. S. Wales Premier and son of the first
and only N. S. Wales Minister for
Motherhood, but better known as the
former manager of Jimmy Carruthers,
will oppose Dan Curtin for the Kings-
ford Smith seat at the next Federal elec-
tion. The other political McGirrs were
“Labor” men; this one has twice stood
as a Country-party candidate (in Darling
and Paterson) and will fight Curtin as a
Liberal.
• •
Greek Prime Minister Papagos, dead
in Athens at 72, is the man who com-
manded the Greek army which threw
back the Italian invasion of his country
in 1941 with such success that Mussolini
had to call on the Germans for help.
The Nazi occupation forces captured him
in 1943 and he spent two years in con-
centration camps. In 1949 he was again
called to lead his country’s forces—this
time against a Communist insurrection
financed and directed by Russia. . After
order was restored he resisted invita-
tions to enter politics, but in 1951 formed
the Greek Rally, which a year later had
an overwhelming victory at the elections.
He remained in office till his death. The
new Prime Minister is Constantine
Karamanlis, formerly Minister of Public
Works.
• •
Russia’s answer to Britain’s “flying
bedstead” is a “flying bottle.” Powered,
no doubt, with vodka.
• •
The usual fustian debate on pensions
which must be authorised by Parliament
before they can be paid will give an
opportunity for campaign window-
dressing aimed at the bloc vote of the
retired and the invalid. The debate on
the Petrov commission, opened probably
by Dr. Evatt, if he does not shirk the
job, with Messrs. Menzies and Keon
following, will bring the effective part
of the sittings to a close, probably with
a large explosion. Whatever may happen
afterwards will be pure anticlimax.
• •
Mr. McColm, Liberal M.H.R. for
Bowman (Q.), wants Papua and New
Guinea to send elected representatives to
the national Parliament. That sounds
all right on the surface, but it is hardly
practical. If New Guinea were to
become a seventh State its people would
have to be given equal citizenship-rights
throughout Australia which would
mean the end of the White Australia
policy.
Our proper policy towards the island
territories should be to educate the
natives towards eventual self-government
—but not inclusion in the Federal
system.
• •
Death of F. Guthrie, “Labor” M.L.A.
for Bunbury in the Westralian Parlia-
ment, means that for the time being
Government and Opposition numbers
are 24-all on the floor of the House, so
that “Labor” relies on the Speaker’s vote
to keep it functioning. A by-election is
to be held next month, with the fate of
the Hawke Government depending on
the result. There’s a general election, due
next year, but if Bunbury goes against
“Labor” Hawke might beat both Cahill
and Menzies to the polls.
• •
Oversea shipping freight-rates are to
rise per cent, instead of the projected
10 per cent. Extra cost to shippers in a
full year will be about £2| million.
■ • •
As a sequel to the latest outbreak from
Melbourne’s Pentridge, arrangements
are being made to issue later-model
rifles than the 82-year-old Winchesters
now used by the warders. Perhaps the
Army Department could spare some
Boer War relics: after all, they’d be
twenty years closer to modernity than
the present equipment.
• •
“Chevroford”: Melbourne police and
City Council traffic experts have
inaugurated what they call the “platoon-
system” in at least one major street. Cars
are assembled in batches like Olympic-
runners and are started-off with a stop-
watch at a fixed speed of 23 m.p.h.,
traffic-lights en route having been
synchronised so that each platoon arrives
at each intersection exactly at the split-
second. On the first day, except when
someone stalled through overanxiety and
the traffic snarl snarled worse than ever,
the scheme worked smoothly; but in
relation to the overall traffic-muddle,
what does it amount to? An ocean liner
once lost its screw off the Australian coast
and a howling gale started to drive it
towards the South Pole. The captain
rigged up a sea-anchor to check the
liner’s progress to destruction. The chief
mate said, “He might just as well have
spat in the wind.” The liner was finally
picked up somewhere inside the Antarctic
Circle. The City Council might just as
well spit in the eye of Melbourne’s
traffic chaos as expect to solve it with
piecemeal measures. There’s only one
effective solution. The trams, which are
the worst offenders, ought to be put
underground where they would cease to
be a nuisance. The construction com-
pany which finished the Eildon weir ahead
of schedule could do the job within
three years.
• •
Announcing that the plans for the
R.A.N. were the minimum to prepare to
meet potential war-commitments, and to
be able to expand readily to take an
active part in the cold war in the Far
East as required, Navy Minister Francis
gave five roles for the Navy in war.
These were: (1) to secure local sea-
communications ; (2) to assist in securing
the sea-communications of the Anzam
area ; (3) to prevent an attack on Aus-
tralian territories by enemy seaborne
forces; (4) to escort Australian land-
forces where required, and subsequently
to assist in their support; and (5) to con-
tribute to the whole of the Allied naval
forces assembled for offensive action
against the enemy and enemy-held
territories.
• •
“In the ACT”: Strategically situated
on a lush clover-paddock at the junction
of the roads leading from Canberra to
Sydney and Melbourne, the Federal
capital’s first motel is now being built.
Minister for the Interior Kent Hughes
turned the first sod before a small crowd
of politicians and others, Calwell gave
the project his blessing, and one of its
directors, Lyle Moore (who elsewhere is
president of the N.S.W. Liberals), aroused
a slight stir when he urged that the mem-
ber representing Canberra in Parliament
should have a deliberative vote. As the
sitting “Labor” man, Jim Fraser, and the
Liberal candidate, Mrs. Mary Stevenson,
were seated almost next to each other,
this was a moment of mild tension. Kent
Hughes said Canberra got 250,000
tourists each year, 110,000 of them com-
ing by road, so the motel should flourish.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
nrHOSE who visit our large and not-so-
large country towns must be amazed
at the amenities in country clubs. Rooms
carpeted, modern furniture, chrome
everywhere, landscape - windows over-
looking smooth bowling-greens. A year
or two ago many of these clubs were
struggling to make" ends meet. Now,
thanks to batteries of one-armed bandits,
all their worries are forgotten, and the
committees’ only worry is to account for
the unaccountable profits. Unfortun-
ately for the clubman seeking peace in a
place where he could down a beer or two,
most of the country clubs are now
inhabited by morons pouring two-bobs
into the fruit-machines. Small-town
clubs are making as much as £15,000 a
year from the machines, and I hear of a
club in one of our larger country towns
which has 50 one-armed bandits ranged
in two batteries on two floors- of the
building. Conversation piece: “Clunk
. . . whirr. ‘Got change of a quid,
Bert?’ “B. the B.”
"He's trying to remember whether he filed his lunch under 'L' or ‘S.’”
“8.N.”: Our (Adelaide) morning-
paper is running one of those competi-
tions which require not only a working
knowledge of comparative philology and
the possession of numerous dictionaries
but lots and lots and lots of time. The
winners for the last two weeks have been
public servants.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Q. Ree”: Visiting Fiji, an American
Professor of Geology told us that when
“We missed-out on the ' Findaword ’ —we put pub instead of tub."
an Australian reporter persistently asked
him about finding oil, he tried to change
the subject, saying “Oh, let’s forget it!”
Next day the paper carried the headline
“Visiting Professor Says Forget About
Oil in Australia.” For the rest of his stay
in that city instead of giving his name
when answering the phone he’d say
“Hullo? Oh, he’s not in.”
*** ♦♦♦
“Hallcraft”: London “News Chron-
icle” reports that striking stevedores in
London’s Victoria Dock rejected an
appeal to unload 41 tons of melons going
overripe in a British ship. The melon,
they said, was not a working-man’s fruit.
❖ ❖ ❖
“G.F.K.”: Melbourne’s Lord Mayor,
Cr. Selleck, on the air trying to boost
Olympic Games: “Now, you’ve all heard
of Operation Kickero ?” Did he
mean the Rules grand-final? No room
there for sisseros!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Stone”: A move is afoot in Bendigo
to name a proposed music-shell, being
erected by the Civic Fathers, after “Bob
Brothers,” the central character in Law-
son’s short story “Send Round the Hat.”
It will serve as a memorial to the writer
and at the same time give effect to the
last sentence in the story, “Ah, I wish
I could immortalise him.” Bendigonians
are anxious to discover whether the story
has any factual background and whether
“Bob Brothers” has been identified/
♦> ❖ ❖
“Bung”: I submit a new word,
“basing,” for judgment. It appeared in
the Albury “Border Morning Mail” of
September 25 : “Mr. is in Mel-
bourne ‘basing’ with the spare-parts
houses to ensure an adequate supply
.... ” The word is suggestive enough of
a seaside-holiday for two, but for that
reason a buyer reporting to his firm that
he spent his time “liasing” in the city is
liable to be misunderstood.
* ❖ ❖
“G’pa’s Understudy”: During
Randolph Bedford’s (B. 28/9/’55) color-
ful career in Melbourne his play “The
Lady of the Pluck Up” was staged. The
posters were done by Norman and Lionel
Lindsay. Norman’s illustration of the
barmaid was a gem and should have
attracted the crowds that did not attend.
Part of the lines of one of the actresses
read: “I wonder if I’m acting crook?”
A cad from the gods left her in no doubt
by shouting “My oath you are! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Avon”: You can never be certain
when a small port has had its day.'
Kaiapoi, just north of Christchurch
(N.Z), had its first caller in 1831. In the
’sixties 80 small craft traded there till
rivers were bridged and roads built.
Rail-connection sounded its doom, and
in 1935 the old Foxton carried away the
last cargo—spuds for Wellington. Now
they’re planning to resume the service
north with scows'and similar craft. Cargo
is plentiful, and merchants, harried by
delays through Lyttelton, where business
is booming, promise patronage to a port
hitherto considered a dead loss.
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.D.W.”: New Zealand’s Education
Department has told the Napier High
School board that, while it will subsidise
school-bands, pipe-bands don’t come
within the definition. Just let ’em tell
Otago that bagpipes aren’t musical instru-
ments and there’ll be unreckoned con-
verts to the home-rule cause.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Baggyduds”: An Australian army-
officer who served on Gallipoli and
returned for a look at some of his old
possies said that the clearest evidence of
the Anzac visit was the numberless
apricot-trees. These, he contended, came
from the seeds out of that “ghastly jam.”
But wouldn’t the processing kill the seed-
germ? Alternatively, were the Anzacs
supplied with fresh fruit?.
*> *5
“Avon”: A few years ago a 1939 model
American car with half-a-million miles
on the clock passed from one New
Zealand Government-department to
another for a fiver. Subsequent routine
depreciation reduced its book-value to
five-bob (I’m assured it’s dinkum). The
other day department No. 2 got rid of
it to a taxpayer for £295. A mechanic
assures me that after it’s had a needful
£l5O or so spent on it the veteran wbl still
be* near “normal second-hand value.”
ij*
“G’pa”': “Muskeen’s” par. (B.
28/9/’55) on the Rising Sun prompts the
question, When was it first used? I say
it was on a medal struck in 1853 in
Tasmania to mark the end of transporta-
tion. This medal is of heraldic interest,
as the emu is on the dexter and the
kangaroo on the sinister side. The shield
is surmounted by a rising sun.
“J.S.J.”: Officialdom was set back on
its haunches when Government architects
proposed to furnish the waiting-rooms
of a newly-erected Sydney maternity-
hospital with the usual wooden forms.
As it was a subsidised £-for-£ affair, the
sisters of the religious order concerned
had some say in the selection, and held
out for chromium and leather, similar
to what was in use in the private section
of the hospital. The ladies won, of
course, and scored another victory for
democracy.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Dick Turpin”: Swung off the high-
way at Glenrowan, determined to visit
the scene of Ned’s battle and sample the
beer at the pub. Even though the
original shebang was burnt down during
the donnybrook almost 80 years ago,
I wasn’t prepared for the chromium-
decorated austerity of the interior, as
modern and efficient as that of any
suburban beer-palace. And not one
relic of the Kellys, or the battle. Not so
much as a picture, or even a plaque to
celebrate the occasion. They do much
better by Ben Hall at the Cobector pub
in N. S. Wales.
“E. & 0.E.”: The rise of public-
telephone calls to threepence reminds me
of my first day in Cape Town, trying to
use a South African telephone. In the
very dark booth I could not find the slot
for the pennies. Appealing to the
exchange, I was told to put in a tickey,
for which a smaller slot was provided.
“Whatever is a tickey?” I asked. It was
the popular name for a threepenny-piece,
one of the most used coins in South
Africa, for the telephone, tram-fares, etc.
The Australian P.M.G. intends to
demand three pennies, no doubt feeling
that conversations that generally begin
with a wait should be given due weight.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Narumee”: We took a neighbor, an
old lady, to revisit her birthplace,
Dandenong (B. 14/9/’55). She eyed the
rearing phalanxes of factory-buildings,
the desecrated farmlands, and said: “I
don’t understand. There are all those
horrible slums in Melbourne. Why don’t
they pull them down and build the fac-
tories there? And why can’t the people
from the slums live out here?” I began
to parrot about decentralisation, pre-
vention of air-pollution, zoning and
industrial areas. Then I found myself
unconvinced and asking “Why, indeed?”
We’re going to need a National Trust
here very soon, or factories will be
rising on Phillip Island, and housing-
commission estates on Cape Schanck, and
there won’t be a market-garden or a
dairyfarm within a hundred miles of
Melbourne.
♦♦♦ *X*
“Mullum”: Books that come flooding
after every Test-cricket series follow a
common pattern: detailed description of
the Test-matches, pages of statistics and
records, praise or criticism for the selec-
tors—the players are treated as cricketing-
machines rather than human beings.
When I had contact with a touring team
I was pleasantly surprised to find that the
players were human. Most, I discovered,
drink beer and enjoy it. One or two, when
Test-matches are not too close, drink
rather too much. They dance, sing and
tell yarns just as you and I do, and the
single ones, at least, have their romantic
moments. Some obviously enjoy playing
cricket, others treat it more as a business
and, as the tour progresses, you will find
some getting quite fed-up with the game.
I remember one player who, for two days,
sat with his back to the dressing-room
window, writing letters. A cricket-tour
would provide enough material for several
books without mention of a ball bowled,
LAST STANZAS
“Discussion of variorum and suppressed last
stanzas of Gordon’s ‘The Sick Stockrider’ in
these columns have reminded the author of a
new set of last stanzas only recently taken
down at a spirit-stance, and here printed for
the first time.”
Now my slumbers in the hollow where
the wattle-blossoms wave
Are more likely to be shared than
shaken, Ned,
By the visitor to Melbourne who stumbles
o’er my grave,
Looking for a place to lay his head.
For the fever of the spring l sang has
come around again
Reviving in the parties and the pomp
Of the sturdy station-children who have
grown-up into men
And have gathered in the cities for their
romp.
The September Sydney season, with its
air like draughts of wine,
Is over, and now Melbourne’s filling-up
With people busy putting-up, and
setting-up the line
Or round of Cups that circles round
y the Cup.
I’ll tell you, thdugh, what pleases me in
racing-men today
In their revels in the pubs or on the
course;
As a lover of swift horses, l can only
praise the way
They share their wild excitement with
the horse.
Yes, the lowliest of horses need no longer
lose the hope
Of joining in the seasonal felicity
When his loving owner shouts him to a
shot or two of dope
Or the tingle of a charge of electricity.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


HPHE quiet air of Palmer Place, North
-*• Adelaide, resounds with crumbling
masonry from which waves of history-
laden dust are rising as the reputedly
oldest house in Adelaide is demolished.
The whitewashed walls, red-brick frieze
and slate roof set in an old-world garden
have been generally accepted as Colonel
Light’s cottage. But as he stands day-
and-night a few hundred yards away on
Montefiore Hill, Adelaide has concluded
“Well, you make it hard for me to say 'No.'"
that he just doesn’t want to go home.
“8.N.”
* ❖ *
“Narumee”: Overheard outside the
suburban greengrocer’s: “... .And Tojiy
made a mistake over her change —he gave
her two-bob too much. My dear, the
woman actually pointed it out to him!
Now doesn’t that prove what I’ve always
“How do you like my horse-tail hair-do?”
said —she has no idea of the value of
money! ”
$ ❖
“Eureka”: At the unveiling of the rail-
way centenary monument near the dog-
trap gates, Granville, on September 26,
things I noted were: About 40 people
in the official enclosure, all men except
one, and she was a press-representative.
The absence of youth ; of the 40 guests
in the enclosure at least 30 per cent, were
either bald or on the way. The apparent
lack of interest in things historical. Also,
a handful of children from one of the
local schools, with their teacher, occu-
pied the most dangerous position about
the monument —right beside the railway-
line. Maybe they believed that the “rail-
way is the safe way” even in a position
where they could have been prosecuted
for trespass.
❖ ♦♦♦ *i*
“8.C.”: My son, a recent acquisition
of Scotland’s Education Department, was
experiencing difficulty with the broad
dialect of the 30-odd children assigned to
his care. In the back row a hand waved
wildly. “Please, sir,’ v said a small earnest
voice,J‘do you think you could teach us
your language one day?”
/ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Another Learner”: The car which
“No Sirrah” sold for £l4O brings back
memories of being offered a tractor to
sell for £l5O with commission of 10 per
cent. I advertised it, fortunately neglect-
ing to state the price. Three days later
a dealer called, and, when told the price,
remarked, “You’ll never sell it; it’s too
cheap. People will think there’s some-
thing wrong. Put another one hundred
pounds on and you’ll have no trouble.”
A week later I sold the tractor for £250,
and the buyer considered he’d bought a
bargain. This all happened in 1935 when
a pound would buy 17 bottles of XXXX
with twopence change.
<♦ ♦>
“Tas.”: “S.A.K.” (B. 21/9/’55), on
messenger-boy being virtually the only
way of entering the public service before
1920, is talking through his hat! The
Commonwealth Public Service Act of
1901, which divided the newly-created
Federal P.S. into divisions and classes,
made provision for all kinds of examina-
tions —chiefly for the clerical division. I
sat in Hobart in 1902. Started in Customs
at £4O p.a. When I had reached £6O p.a.,
by two annual increments of £lO each, I
was transferred to Defence, Sydney. The
P.S. Commissioner expected me to go
and live in Sydney on the £6O p.a.; but
a vigorous protest, which nearly got me
the sack, resulted in a living-allowance
of £4O p.a. until my salary (only) reached
£lOO p.a. After being three years in the
clerical division you could sit for a
special examination in your duties. If
you passed you were entitled to the
minimum adult wage of £llO. I was
examined on military and Treasury regu-
lations, passed, lost my living-allowance
and got the £llO as salary.
❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: Blaxcell-street, Granville
(now just a suburb of Parramatta), is
known to taxi-drivers as the “Golden
Mile.” It is the main route from Gran-
ville railway-station to South Granville
and a big industrial area. Taxis get a
full load on the outward journey and a
full load on the return trip. It’s not
unusual for a taxi-driver to collect a
pound for a mile or so out and back.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Hist”: Suggest to “Dix” (B. 21/9/’55)
that a “sense of false security” and a
“false sense of security” mean different
things. A “false sense of security” implies
that you feel safe when in fact you
are not: a “sense of false security” that
you suspect you are not safe despite cur-
rent indications to the contrary. For,
instance, the kid who has been at the
jam-cupboard has a false sense of security
while he remains unconscious of the
fact that Mum has already detected his
crime, but has not yet got round to
dealing with him. He has a sense of false
security when he knows darned well that
he has been found out, but retribution
has been postponed.
❖ ❖ *
“Rita”: The crossword craze has
cleaned-out country post-offices through-
out New South Wales of postal-notes in
the smaller denominations up to two-
shillings. Smaller Riverina towns cannot
obtain supplies from the larger cities, and
the air is ringing with the curses of those
debarred from collecting alleged easy
money. The P.M.G. will miss the
poundage to be made from the craze,
but there will be a respectable profit,
nevertheless, from the sale of postage-
stamps at 3|d. a go on this unexpected
cargo in her Majesty’s mails.
* ♦♦♦ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: With H.M.A.S. Sydney
around the Althorps and settled in our
waters, Adelaide went, to quote one of
my patients, “hegg-beater ’appy.” At
breakfast-time the announcer said, “A
flash —a helicopter has just landed on
Government House lawn,” adding in
parenthesis, “I heard it go over, but I
didn’t know whether it was one of theirs
or ours!” And as patients and staff
leaned out of the hospital-windows to see
it land for the second time on vice-regal
sward, one remarked, “It’s the Admiral;
he’s come in to grass!”
* ❖ ❖
“J. 8.”: I’d also like to know what
exactly constitutes the covering of a
woman’s head for church-attending pur-
poses (B. 17/8/’55). Back in the
’twenties, I remember a lass who was
refused admittance to a fashionable even-
ing wedding because it was ruled that the
artistically arranged flower she wore did
not cover her head. Unperturbed, she
flicked her immaculate escort’s handker-
chief from his pocket, tied a knot in
each corner bushman-style, spread it over
her coiffure, and marched in, St. Paul,
if not decorum, apparently satisfied.
■* *> ❖
“Curio”: The spelling with an “r”
instead of an “n” of the name Nebucha-
drezzar by Dr. Brasch (R.P. 21/9/’55) is
merely sound scholarship. The “n”
spelling occurs in the Book of Daniel,
whereas the “r” usage, which is to be
found in Jeremiah (who also uses “n”)
and Ezekiel, is the older and more correct
form. Daniel is much later than either
Jeremiah or Ezekiel, so that the “r”
version, being the earlier, is correct. A
transliteration of the cuneiform charac-
ters in which the king’s name is written
gives “Nabu-kudurri-uzur” meaning “O
Nebo, defend the landmark.” And, in-
deed, one of his works, the Hanging
Gardens of Babylon, was one of the
seven wonders of the world. The Greek
version in the Apocrypha is different
again—“Nabuchodonosor,” which prob-
ably explains the development of the
corrupt spelling. Greek influences were
strong when Daniel was written (about
168 8.C.), so that the Greek spelling
would then affect the Hebrew.
* ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Suffering from noise-raw
nerves when living in a tenement at
Coogee (N.S.W.) I once wildly offered
the cove in the next flat ten-bob to turn
his ruddy radio off. Now I read that
Westminster (London) County Court had
assessed interrupted television-viewing at
more than £4 per week. Declaring that
life was grim without it and that he’d
rather have had TV than compensation,
a plaintiff was awarded £5O against a
repair firm for loss of 12 weeks’ viewing,
plus £29 for repairs because his set was
still on the blink when returned. Perhaps
I’m not air-minded, but such incidents
confirm my suspicion that the little screen
enslaves as surely as it entertains.
* ❖
“Doynest”: When my senior office
lass confided that she was to be married
in a couple of months’ time my heart
missed a beat or two. It had taken weeks
of courageous advertising to obtain the
offer of her services ; she had only been
with me six months, and, for these care-
free days of full employment, takes her
job seriously. The thought of.launching
out on the almost hopeless quest again,
spending pounds on ads. and interviewing
a rare and obviously unsuitable applicant
occasionally threatened to send my blood-
pressure soaring. But I needn t have
worried: in the next breath she merely
asked for a few weeks off for her honey-
moon and time to settle down to married
life. If I’d remembered it was 1955, not
1935, I would have saved myself that
momentary anxiety,
DOGS’ LINES
“A Canadian authority says dogs have
nothing for which to thank man for having
bred them so far away from their natural
state. Many dogs as a result lead lives quite
foreign to Nature’s original intention, and some
even look comical.”
I’d often watched my pooch curled up,
a-dreaming
(Spasmodic twitching had denoted
this),
And, apparently lacking gumption,
I had leaped to the assumption
That his doggy dreams were filled with
doggy bliss,
Such as of fummies past his kennel
streaming,
Of masters sharing hatred of a bath;
Being mixed up in a melee,
Having someone scratch his belly,
Of a light-pole every foot along the
path ;
Of large and angry tykes to be defying
Behind the safety of a six-foot fence;
Rolling on a fish that’s rotten,
Finding bones so long forgotten ;
A boss who doesn’t ask obedience.
That 1 have misinterpreted his sighing,
His dreams, l now confess. Their
subject’s been
To be owner of a chassis
He’d regard as pretty snazzy —
Proportioned, streamlined, curved, yet
rather lean.
His head and face, 1 grant, are all too
shaggy;
He has a terrier’s front, a bulldog’s
stern ;
His shape is somewhat fiddle-
Like. He dips down in the middle,
And his back-legs no encomiums would
earn.
His body generally is pretty baggy;
His paws are like those of a lion cub.
I’m conceding that old Nigger
Has a funny sort of figure,
And it’s obviously in this he finds the
rub.
The hybridist’s brought flowers to
perfection.
Yet what a deal’s been handed man’s
best friend!
Dogs themselves are dumbly pleading
’Gainst the horrors of cross-breeding,
And, frankly, it’s a thing we can’t
defend.
I am reminded now, upon reflection,
Of many reproachful looks Nig’s bent
on me
As I’ve scratched his lug. I wonder —
Does he blame me for the blunder ?
It’s strange how sensitive a pooch can
be.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


as
1
sssiaaitiittais
TAA
INTRODUCE A NEW ERA OF AIR TRAVEL
The four Rolls-Royce propeller-turbine engines run
so smoothly that a pencil may be stood upright on
the arm of your chair. Research has proved that
vibration causes air travel fatigue. That’s why you
feel so fresh when you step off your TAA Viscount
the smoothest, fastest, most comfortable airliner
in Australia.
TAA
Reservations: TAA BOOKING OFFICES ALL STATES
or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPVI2B
PERSONALITEMS
. Academically medical, recreationally
aquatic, Alan Davis goes to Oxford as
the N. S. Wales 1956 Rhodes man. In his
final year of medicine at Sydney Univer-
sity, a Wesley collegian there, he has
rowed for both college and ’Varsity, was
in the. North Wollongong (N.S.W.) junior
lifesaving team when it won the State
championships, and is one of Wollon-
gong’s strongest surf-racing men. Con-
sistently outstanding throughout his five
years of medicine, on one of his uni-
versity vacations he signed-on as a
medical assistant in New Guinea, patrol-
ling for three months through the
Busu-Markham Valley. Twenty-two,
with physiology and biochemistry his
targets.
• •
Willian Gwinnett (here pictured), who
played host to 300 top-flight South Aus-
tralian industrialists recently when his
firm celebrated the completion of its first
million motor-car wheels, just can’t help
running a factory. His father and grand-
father were factory - managers in
England’s Midlands, and when Bill was
21 he was telling some 40 men how to
TURNS OUT WHEELS
make steel-shelving and filing-cabinets
he had helped to design. Nine years ago
he realised his ambition to go overseas
and help start a new industry when the
Owen organisation of Great Britain, a
£ 15-million family-business, sent a few
key men to Finsbury, near Adelaide, to
launch the firm of Rubery, Owen and
Kemsley. Three years later, at 38,
friendly, plain-speaking, pipe-smoking
Gwinnett was managing-director of the
outfit. He’s not lost a minute’s produc-
tion through any internal industrial dis-
pute, and he’s not had any tariff aid—
which says something for his managerial
know-how.
• •
The Westralian University’s long vaca-
tion this year was no holiday for
Randolph Stow, a 19-year-old third-year
Arts student. He spent the three months
writing a novel (85,000 words), which
has been accepted by a London pub-
lisher. The book, The Haunted Land,
deals with the countryside around Ger-
aldton, his home town. Stow started
writing verse as a boy at Guildford
Grammar, and has since found publica-
tion in magazines and newspapers.
• •
When, 30-odd years back, Midship-
man David Hugh Harries left the R.A.N.
College at Flinders he had in his ditty-
box the Grand Aggregate and history
prize, and firsts in physics, chemistry,
English, French and seamanship. A
couple of years back 20 of 22 awards
to R.A.N. men in Korea went to carrier
Sydney—which is something of a measure
of how the erstwhile snotty had trained
the ship he then commanded. His share
was C.B.E. An austere-looking, tightly-
knit figure, Harries early in War II had
a minesweeping flotilla, and was execu-
tive-officer of cruiser Shropshire for a
deal of her Pacific fighting. She was
recognised as the finest radar-ship in
those heavily-shipped waters, and re-
ceived the unusual distinction of a cita-
tion from the White House. In charge
of Balmoral naval base (Sydney) before
he took over the Sydney, he came ashore
again to command the huge depot down
south from which he had graduated long
leagues before. Now, rear-admiral, head
of the Australian Joint Services Staff in
Washington, he has been selected as the
next Flag Officer commanding the Aus-
tralian Fleet. Navigator by trade, with
foreign languages for relaxation.
• •
E. L. Stevens, of Stevens, Rymill,
Boucaut and Jacobs, is the new president
of the South Australian Law Society.
Succeeding F. E. Piper, Q.C., Stevens
has had some 16 years of lecturing in
Equity and Conveyancing at Adelaide
Uni.
• •
“M.G.S.” greets Grainger:
Percy Grainger, greying but as wild with
energy as ever, is back in Melbourne with the
Norwegian wife who has been the subject of
much of his music. He’s organising the curious
collection of musical oddities he assembled in
the odd wheel-shaped museum he had erected
at his own expense in the grounds of Melbourne
University.
Among fresh exhibits he’s brought is a set
of color-photographs of the eyes of contem-
porary composers, intended to illustrate another
of his unusual viewpoints. He wants to prove
that all the great British composers had light-
colored eyes—from blue to grey and amber —
although all the portraits of composers of other
centuries showed dark eyes: this came about,
he says, because of the common Belief that all
culture came from the south only.
Also in his baggage are the plans and specifi-
cations of the new “free music” which uses
wind and electronic gadgets, and renders
orchestras and even virtuosi like himself
superfluous.
His childhood piano, on which he practised
in Adelaide, his toys, the clothes he and his
wife designed, the original scores of the many
composers he knew and his own scores (which
look like willy-willies) are included.
Seventy-three, he hasn’t changed much since
the night 17 years ago when he played soloist
to his own symphony at the Melbourne Town
Hall by opening the lid of the Steinway and
tapping the notes out with a little hammer on
the wires.
• •
Taking his 93rd birthday briskly,
Michael Carmody at 20 was the hero of
the Australasian Mine disaster at Cres-
wick (Vic.). It happened in the ’seventies.
A plateman, he ran half a mile through
rising waters to warn his mates that the
mine was flooded. One of the 22 drowned
was his father. Michael lives at
Nazareth House, Ballarat.
• •
Gone up to brigadier, and in charge of
Eastern Command’s administration, A. S.
Andersen is one of those Diggers who
were worked extra hard on both sides of
the War II world. A Duntrooner polished
in India, he served in Libya, Greece and
Syria with the Sixth Division, then came
across for more in New Guinea. He
commanded the Ist Field Regiment for
the Bulolo Valley campaign of 1943
(0.8. E.), was in the Philippines (Aus-
tralian observer), and ended his war
commanding the 4th Field Regiment on
Bougainville. For three post-war years
he was in charge of the Army School of
Artillery. Forty-three, born in Papua,
he’s the first from those parts to reach
brigadier.
• •
“M.F.D.”: Rudolph Bronner, retired
as A.B.C. director of youth education,
was more than headmaster of Australia’s
biggest school —he was the very soul of
educational broadcasting in Australia.
Bronner had a distinguished career
before joining the A.B.C. in the early
’thirties —he served in War I, passed
through Oxford and was Professor of
English at an overseas university before
taking a similar post in Adelaide. When
I first met him at the A.B.C. in 1936 he
was running the talks-department as well
as school-broadcasting, and was expected
to keep an eye on news, too, for which
he had no feeling. The only time\l can
recall Bronner being really upset was
when, in an unguarded moment, he
agreed to programme a series of news-
broadcasts for schools and had to rely
on outsiders to prepare the material.
Inevitably, a few complaints came in
from people who thought the news was
biased at times. After persevering for a
few weeks he got permission to abandon
the service and thereafter was his happy
self. Bronner has a first-class mind, and
I am sure many people will share my
regret that age caught up with him before
he was able to launch TV education-
broadcasts in Australia. However, his
successor, Charles Bull, who has worked
with Bronner for some years, is qualified
in every way to carry on the torch.
• •
Down to earth in his birthplace, Perth,
after an absence of 20 years, 71-year-old
A. O. Speight, in his time sailor, sweet-
maker and steeplejack. Three years ago
he was news-photographed in Johannes-
burg, shaving himself with a cpt-throat
razor on top of a 252 ft. smokestack. He
went much higher in his trade before he
left Perth in 1935 —when he painted the
400 ft. wireless-mast at Applecross. That
job was done in 19 days, which, he
reckons, was three times as fast as the rate
today.
• •
John Cameron Stewart (herewith),
C.O.R.’s staff-training officer, has the
academic qualifications which seem
nowadays to be as much sine qua non
with oilmen as they used to be with pro-
fessors. Born in Sydney 36 years ago, he
was educated there and at Edinburgh
University and Oxford, proceeding
thence into the Queen’s Own Camerons.
He served in the Middle East and the
Far East, rank of captain. In between
he sandwiched a sojourn in Italy with
the Resistance forces. An M.A. (Oxon)
in jurisprudence, just returned from a
five-months’ visit to the U.K., Germany
and the U.S., he studied management
problems in industry and commerce and
the part staff-training plays in ensuring
greater efficiency and know-how; was
much impressed with the increased im-
TRAINS STAFF
portance given to work-study in factory
and office, and noted that in England
this method of streamlining production
is gaining acceptance by the trade-union
movement, which sends its own reps, to
be specially trained in work-study. Was
staggered with the tremendous German
effort in the way of re-establishment and
reconstruction similarly affected by
America’s efforts compared with the
more leisurely pace in his homeland.
To determine if its mikes could stand
up to the close-range bombardment of
Hans Hotter’s baritone the A.B.C.
measured his voice in terms of decibels.
Decision: that it was the most power-
ful yet projected into the Australian
ether. The tremendous volume is under-
standable —it issues from a 6ft. 4in.
frame, powerfully proportioned. This
welkin-buckling quality, however, is re-
TESTS MIKES
served mostly for the heavy Wagnerian
roles for which Hotter is in great demand
in the opera-houses of Europe; on the
concert-platform the German’s forte is
his native lied, of which he is one of the
world’s top exponents. A product of
Munich University, where he mixed
philosophy with musicology, he went on
to that city’s Music Academy for organ,
piano, counterpoint and allied studies to
prepare for a conductor’s career; then
he discovered he had a voice. Having a
range which enables him to take both
dramatic-baritone and some bass roles,
Hotter is now at the peak of his career.
• •
“F.S.”: Melbourne music-lovers have
cause once more to regret the loss of an
eminent impermanent conductor —Walter
Susskind. They have already lost three
others for the same reason —disagree-
ment between the conductor and the
Musicians’ Union as to how a Govern-
ment-controlled orchestra should be
conducted. One is reminded of Pablo
Casals, the brilliant composer, conductor
and violoncellist —though Casals didn’t
have a Government and a union on his
back from the word go. He went about
things in a different way. In 1919 he
organised the Pablo Casals Orchestra in
Barcelona, and he conducted it for 20
years, building it into one of the finest
orchestras in Europe. He didn’t go to a
musicians’ union or call in professional
musicians. His orchestra was recruited
entirely from the ranks of workers, who
had to rehearse after a hard day’s work
in Spanish factories.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 50, Dr. Montgomery White,
Fellow of the Royal Australian Chemical
Institute, for 14 years in charge of the Queens-
land Agricultural Department’s chemical labora-
tory. Long-experienced in problems of agri-
culture and stock, he did outstanding work in
helping overcome copper deficiency in cattle
and sheep, and fluorosis in sheep. Bom at the
Tate tinmines in North Queensland, he took
his Ph.D. in London, and was known widely
and well, both personally and in an advisory
capacity, to men on the land throughout
Queensland.
At Portland (Vic.), at 73, Hugh Vernon
MacLeod, for nine years, till the recent Vic-
torian elections, Legislative Councillor repre-
senting Western Province. One-time Mayor of
Portland, he was bom in Westralia, of a
pioneer pastoral family. He trained and raced
a big string of horses.
In Adelaide, at 64, John Christian Mayo,
Old Digger medico and world-recognised radio-
therapist and radiologist. For more than 20
years a specialist in cancer, and chairman since
1951 of Adelaide University’s anti-cancer
campaign committee, he’d been executively
connected with most State and Australasian
organisations representative of his subjects.
He was brother to Sir Herbert Mayo, Supreme
Court judge, and to Dr. Helen Mayo, a
foundation Fellow of the Royal Australian
College of Physicians, and widely known for
her work with children.


0, 6 (&S—ALU
i WMTsp m$ a m«&or/ y
FORCE OF HABIT


ABORIGINALITIES
TTS7HY isn’t speech instinctive ? It must
be one of the most important of
the attributes or faculties —it’s used for
communication, courting, and defence
among birds and animals—yet the young
of every species must learn its own
peculiar tongue. Even young birds must
be taught by their elders, and, in some
Gunpowder—there ain't a man 'ad more experience widdun!"
species, such' as the kookaburra, the
tutoring is a long and arduous process.
Nature makes one concession on this
score —young birds learn their parents’
calls more readily than those of other
birds, and if several species are caged
together each learns its own call first,
though each picks up a smattering of the
others too.
Nesting, on the other hand, is an in-
stinct. I took two young canaries from
a nest and placed them in an aviary
with budgerigars. They never learnt to
sing properly and their calls had more
than a little of the budgy in them, but
when nesting-time arrived they didn’t
even bother to inspect the hollow
scattered around the aviary—the only
nests they’d seen since the nesting-stage.
Instead, they built a nest of grass,
twigs, and string, just as their ancestors
had been doing for centuries.
Bass.
* * * *
“Eureka”: This time of the year an
old chap is busy collecting trogs and
placing them in a small tank. Soon he
will take out a required number of frogs,
fasten a name to the leg of each and put
them in a dish. The dish is carefully
turned upside-down in the centre of a
ring, with the frogs under it, and then
the dish is lifted and the first frog to
hop over the ring is the winner of the
Melbourne Cup. He reckons his method
works, too.
* * * 41
“Peter Simple”: Stories of a dog’s
faithfulness to his master are legion;
but I know of a big strapping border-
collie, Simon, whose heart is wrapped-up
in a motor-car in which he rode almost
every day from the time he was a pup.
. The car was sold to a man along the
street, and a gleaming new one replaced
it in the garage. Simon was given to
understand from the outset that he
wouldn’t be allowed to ride in the new
car ; but he couldn’t have cared less. He
scarcely deigns to look at it as it moves
in and out; but the moment the engine of
the old car starts-up he races along to
the garage and escorts it into the street
with joyous barking and tail-wagging.
Simon’s no longer invited to ride in the
old car, but that makes no difference to
his loyalty.
* * * *
“Dick Turpin”: We were driving along
the Narrandera-Wagga (N.S.W.) road
when a flock of the pink-breasted birds
took-off from the bitumen ahead. Instead
of keeping going, they wheeled back, low,
and I collected two with the windscreen
and a couple more with the radiator-
grille. Crows aren’t so imprudent; they
flap away from their carrion on the road-
way long before there’s any danger of
collision, and flap back just as leisurely
when the juggernaut has passed. Maggies
get caught only occasionally. No wonder
human mugs are referred to as “galahs.”
* ,
“Kelms”: Old bushmen once argued
that a female ’roo could prolong the
gestation period, at will, to provide for
the birth of the joey at a suitable time,
They quoted prolonged droughts, when
few joeys appeared for a couple of years,
and also does in captivity which pro-
duced young after long separation from
males. That theory was exploded,
scientifically, along with the one that
"Hey!"
joeys were born on the teat. Now it
seems the old bushmen weren’t so far
wrong. Professor Waring, of the Uni-
versity of W.A., has crowned a long
study of marsupials with the discovery
that a doe may carry a fertilised ovum,
which develops to a certain extent and
remains at that stage as long as the doe
has a joey on the teat. When the joey
leaves the pouch, or dies, the ovum pro-
ceeds with its development and the birth
occurs in the normal time from then.
All the professor now has to find out is
how the progress of the ovum is
arrested.
* * * *
“J.E.W.”: I was sitting on the veranda
when from the flat across the creek came
a magpie’s snake-call. I went across and
shot Joe, to the obvious joy of Mr. and
Mrs. Mag. Next afternoon I was again
sitting there having a cuppa when the
snake-call came. I stayed put. Over
came the male bird and settled on the
veranda near me. He seemed agitated,
and flew back and joined his mate in the
alarm-calls. I went over again and
skittled Mrs. Blake a few yards from the
first one. Loud cheers from Mr. and
Mrs. Mag.
* * * *
“Peter Piper” (New Guinea): “Boro
Belle’s” black-poll heifer which swam 15
miles to Lindeman Island (B. 10/8/’55)
is a mere sprinter beside a local duck,
which, having paddled out into the
middle of the Sepik; River for a feed of
mayflies, drifted lazily down to the mouth
(60 miles) and then—whether for may-
flies, adventure, or because of domestic
troubles at home isn’t known —swam on
out to Blup-Blup Island, 20-odd miles
offshore. Risks? Crocodile - hunters
have shipped over 10,000 skins in the last
couple of years without any visible
diminution of the saurian population;
from the coast to Blup-Blup is thick
with sharks. Donald was eventually
picked up and returned to the mainland
by a casual trading-schooner.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: It shouldn’t be very
long before Queensland has another
plague of bush-rats. Roughly, about
every 10 years they ravage the pastoral
lands in millions, eating the roots and
seeds of fodder-grasses, ringbarking trees,
polluting stock-watering places, stripping
station-homestead orchards and gardens,
mutilating the ringers’ boots and the
boss’s sombrero alike. In the towns the
bodies of trapped, poisoned, shot, or just-
plain-killed rodents lie everywhere. The
domestic cats, ultra-keen at first, eat fur
and all, but soon give the new diet away,
An adult rat would be a nose-to-tail-tip
14 inches, with chisel-edged, curved
bottom fangs up to an inch long meeting
a similar but short pair in the upper jaw.
This formidable dental equipment acts
like a carpenter’s paring-chisel. The fur
is long, greyish-white to brown, and little
possum-ears appear above a long snout;
inky-black eyes contrast with white
whiskers. The short front legs are fixed
to tiny paws strangely resembling human
hands in miniature. They arrive in waves
of varying numbers, and usually dis-
appear entirely in about eight weeks.
Strangely, they are apparently not germ-
carriers, for no incidence of disease
follows in their wake.
* * * *
“Fairf”: I suppose it has a scientific
name, but I’ve never heard it called any-
thing but “crab-claw” grass, and no
name could more aptly describe it. Some
years ago a Sydney bird-breeder gave me
some of the seed (imp.) to broadcast for
the benefit of our native birds.
Apparently he gave some to others, too —
or else the birds themselves effected the
transfer, for recently I saw the grass
flourishing in the main street of
Gerringong (N.S.W.), some 80 miles
south of Sydney. Its tough “claws” had
lifted and broken asphalt paving an inch
thick. I, too, curse that altruistic bird-
breeder every time a clump of crab-claw
grass stops my mower and bounces it
back on to my chest.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: During the tough days
of the early ’thirties a battling builder
allegedly secured a job from, an Irish-
woman by telling her he’d build the
framework in Irish pine. He subse-
quently kept her happy by showing her
the invoices for “O’Regon pine.” True
or false, the timber is more often faceti-
ously called Irish pine than Oregon in
the trade today, which must cause rumb-
lings in Scottish coffins, since the wood’s
proper name is Douglas fir.
* * * *
'T'HE news-bulletin said the R.A.A.F.
was searching for one or two
corvettes broken adrift while being
towed in heavy seas off the Queensland
coast to Japan; no doubt they will be
broken-up.
It seems ironic to one who helped keep
a corvette afloat during the war years
that a corvette was being towed any-
where, any time, any place. It was
always the other way round. They had
such power and control, with so little
draught, they made ideal tugs in awk-
ward places.
When a Greek freighter went aground
outside Fremantle in January, ’52, we
hooked on to her with all 2000 horses,
and after trembling and straining for
hours we stretched that freighter at least
6ft. She came out of the sand like a cow
out of a bog. The Navy Board had
complaints from Subiaco residents about
the sand precipitated on their beach from
the thrashing of our props., and the
freighter, going home via Panama and
being checked into the locks, was found
to be 7ft. longer than her designers
showed on her plans.
MATELOT.
THE CENTRE EVER CALLS ME
The Centre ever calls me now that winter’s o’er
the land,
With trees and bushes blooming on the rolling
hills of sand,
With shades of color changing on the rugged
azure hills,
And frost on winter’s morning lies as silver on
the rills.
Gaunt Gillen guards the Alice, and the Alice
serves the land
Where gnarled gums are dreaming by the Todd’s
broad band of sand.
Juritja gazes downward on the restless human
flow,
Ungwala bids them welcome, but Yeralba sees
them go.
The winds of Larrabuka swirl on grey Umberla
plain,
And Chappie looks o’er Wirmbrandt’s rock
t’wards Napperby’s terrain,
Where by the Stuart Bluff ranges the dread
Wanaras dwell,
To roar as whirlwinds through the trees beside
the Oongra well.
Karinyi hums its acolian tune beside Kumalba
spring,
And Liebig throws the echoes where
Mungraka’s chasms fling
The song towards Oopunda where the
honey-totems dream,
And gaze on craggy Zonder, brooding by
Finke’s salty stream.
The mission bells are ringing where Ridjingga
gazes down
And sees Elkarna’s cycads by Iljalma’s stony
crown.
And out by Running Waters where the oak-trees
wave and sigh
The Palmer River ranges rise into the western
sky.
There Omrod looks where Wilbia guards the
sacred ochre caves,
And Wilbia feeds the Yerka spring and, west
o’er sandy waves,
Larinya’s massive dome of rock squats strange
on desert lands
And frowns on Kudajuda’s many heads above
the sands.
i
The graded roads we travel are the trails the
blackman trod,
The hills and waters places where the tribesmen
sought their God;
And by the wells of Walra, to the dingoes’
dismal wails,
Come tribal elders chanting o’er the grim red-
ochre trails.
The mulga fires are glowing by the camps on
station run,
And herds are slowly grazing out towards the
setting sun.
Tradition’s roots are nourished by old songs
engraved on stone,
But Gillen guards those secrets, and the Dog-
man broods alone.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


SOME animals seem to deyelop a total
immunity to plants usually classed
as highly poisonous. A pet lamb we
once had developed a craze for the spiky
pods of the stramonium ( Datura ) and
nearly wiped it out around the house.
About the same time a cow took to
eating the leaves of the same pest. Both
thrived. One old horse loved the little
wild-cucumbers, and used to down them —
bushes, berries and all; and, though they
are reputed to cause blindness in horses,
his sight remained unimpaired. Recently
one of my springing heifers started on a
diet of Darling-pea. She couldn’t pass a
bush without taking a mouthful. Since
calving, a couple of weeks ago, she has
got over her strange craving. Mother
and daughter are both doing fine, and
Ma is milking like a champion.—
“Heresone.”
* * * *
“Peter Piper” (New Guinea): Resi-
dents of the tiny settlements on the Sepik
River were very interested when mem-
bers of an Australian film company on
location showed them the latest in port-
able “smoke-machines” —a small engine-
driven anti-mosquito spraying-device.
Just like magic: every time the film-
crowd shifted to a new camp the man
with the machine walked round the site
spreading his lethal fog and, presto! no
more mosquitoes! It was fascinating.
“Why don’t we get one of those?” asked
the mosquito-bitten residents of one
another. But when they finally found
out that the little machine had been
loaned to the travellers by the New
Guinea Department of Public Health,
fascination turned to damnation. Or, at
least, the language did. .
* * *
“J. 8.”: Up here on Bananaland’s
Gold Coast, lush with modern archi-
tecture, cocktail-bars and barbecues, we
“If you’ve landed on one before, you go first.”
have our plumbing problems, caused by
Freddo’s twin brother. Having cause to
enter the “smallest room” in my friends’
modern flat, I was goggle-eyed when con-
fronted with a strategically placed
notice, “Please close lid, as frogs enter
septic.”
* * * *
“Saaedi”: “Sackville’s” statement that
“when Nature makes a noticeable dis-
tinction between the sexes of birds it is
the male she glorifies” (B. 21/9/’55) is a
shade too sweeping. There are excep-
tions, with the red-sided parrot, or Grand
Electus, of Cape York Peninsula our
most notable. The beautiful Grand
Electus cock is outshone by a still more
magnificent hen, and so great is the
difference between the sexes that for a
long time they were held to be different
species.
„* * * *
“Jobber”: “Dick the Fossicker’s” men-
tion of a mine called Queen of the
Earth (B. 24/8/’55) reminds me
of an expedition to the West-
ralian goldfields in the late
’nineties. A syndicate in Syd-
ney sent three men —Roxburgh
(whose Christian-name I have
forgotten), David McGregor and
Fred Weston to find what they
could. After tea one evening
McGregor poked about and
found signs of gold close to the
camp. They pegged-out a claim
and got to work, quickly strik-
ing the real McCoy. McGregor’s
favorite song was “Queen of the
Earth,” so the name went on to
the claim. It wasn’t long before
an English representative, after
close inspection, made an offer
of £30,000. The leader, Rox-
burgh, wired to Sydney recom-
mending a sale at that figure.
The knowalls in Sydney turned
it down and in very little time
the Queen was found to be
worth about two-bob.
“Roni”: He was a “spin-a-day” man
temporarily employed to cut wood for
the station. For three long days he ate
at our table, and during meals the sound
of his voice never ceased. Even while
he was working outside we could hear
his eternal monologue. Most of it con-
cerned his own prowess in all fields of
human activity, and the tallness of his
tales was exceeded only by their length.
We considered he had finally surpassed
himself when, after some comment on
the manager’s baby, he vowed that at the
age of eight months he had to make his
own bottle and wash it afterwards as
well. This week he returned to do some
fencing with a mate who boasts he is the
world’s foremost authority on engines,
and just about everything else under the
sun. Heaven help us!
* * * *
A. H. Chisholm: Since recording the
salvaging of the DIG Tree of Queens-
land’s Mackenzie River (B. 31/8/’55) I
have gazed on the relic itself, which has
come to rest on the veranda of old New-
stead House in Brisbane, headquarters
and museum of the Queensland Historical
Society. The sight filled me with some-
thing approaching awe —not because of
the tree’s associations with Leichhardt
and co., but because it is surely Aus-
tralia’s bulkiest historical exhibit. Mr.
A. Morrison, the society’s secretary, tells
me that a staggered carrier gave its
weight as two tons and that transferring it
from a truck to the veranda was a job
and a half. Now he wonders —and so do
I —how the lads of the Woorabinda
Aboriginal Settlement, who rescued the
tree on behalf of the Government,
managed to get that huge trunk out of
the bush, on to a motor-truck, and then
on to a rail-truck. Apparently the whole
tribe rallied to the cause. Anyway, they
did the job thoroughly (taking not only
the inscribed portion but practically the
whole trunk) and their effort was worthy
of the old-timers in England who hoisted
great stones aloft at Stonehenge. The
only regrettable factor is that the salvag-
ing was not carried out several years ago,
when the inscription was reasonably
clear. Now it is difficult to decipher.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Rich pockets of gold
found in Western Australia usually occur
at the junction of a quartz reef with iron-
stone, greenstone, jasper, or some similar
ore. When the earth was fluid, a river
“ Don't just stand there — FIELD it!”
of molten, gold-bearing quartz, pouring
into a crack in the earth’s surface, met
a bar of, say, hard jasper, and the flow
stopped; then the gold, being heavier,
settled down through the quartz and con-
centrated at the lowest point, which was
usually at the junction of the two metals.
That gave it its name —contact-gold, as
distinct from reef-gold—and explains why
no experienced miner would think of
cutting through a jasper bar to see if the
reef went past it. He’d be pretty sure it
didn’t.
* * * *
“Papalangi”: While there is no
evidence, as “A.C.T.” says (B. 24/8/’55),
that “ti” was an aboriginal name for
“tea-tree,” the name is used by some Poly-
nesian peoples for various species of
Draccena and Cordyline, the ornamental
“palm-lilies.” The name “tea-tree” has
been used in N.Z., as in Australia, for
species of Leptospermum, but the only
Enzedders I have heard speaking of our
local species have used the Polynesian
word “Manuka.” What Captain Cook
said privately to botanist Banks about
the flavor of his nice strong “cuppa”
should have been worth hearing— tea-tree
oil may be an excellent antiseptic, but its
flavor is hardly that of Flowery Pekoe or
Hang Mee.
* * * *
“Kenyas”: Visiting tearfts of wild birds
don’t make the cost of living lighter for
householders in suburbs bordering the
bush. Take our North Shore (Sydney)
establishment, for example. There are
seven kookaburras on the strength for
meat-rations, and they have become
rather choosy with the years. Hand-fed,
of course, as they all line-up on the
veranda-rail. Then there is a pair of
magpies, tenants of a big gum near by,
who have for long regarded us as their
sole means of support —and, of course,
of their innumerable offspring. Usually
it is the father-bird who calls —he main-
tains a shuttle-service between nest and
veranda, but often insists on being fed
himself before he returns home with the
family rations. Even butcher-birds and
curra wongs are lining-up nowadays:
peewees, soldier-birds and large flocks of
pigeons are content with crumbs they
gather on the lawn. Jacko and Mag
often express impatience if kept waiting,
and both adopt standover methods with
the smaller fry.
* * * ' *
“Salmon Gums”: When Lieut. Grey
was exploring the country south of Perth
he formed a very high opinion of the
natives as blacktrackers. He was travel-
ling with his usual guide, Kayber, when
they came across a bull and a couple of
heifers, apparently gone wild. The hilly
country and a near-by lake reminded
Grey of a scene in Scotland; and,
responding to the mood, he galloped after
the bull in a mad race over stony ground.
A mile or so later he realised that he’d
lost his watch, and asked Kayber if he
could back-track him and find it. Kayber
doubted it; and so did Grey, but he
feigned disgust at a native who couldn’t
perform such a simple feat, and Kayber
set out. He found the watch in half an
hour. Grey said later it was the finest
example of tracking he’d ever seen.
* * * *
“Cliaman”: In a large house 100
or so miles north of Sydney, a
manorial type of dwelling, the chimney-
shafts were enormous—four or more
flues to each. There was a ding-dong
battle between two magpies on top of
one of the stacks, and after half-an-hour
only one was left and he with an inquisi-
tive eye cocked down the chimney. All
day and night and throughout the follow-
ing day, ominous noises suggestive of
poltergeists were to be heard; then, next
night when the family was gathered in
the sitting-room, to the accompaniment
of a cloud of soot the vanquished magpie
landed in its midst. What with birds
and possums adventuring through the
chimneys, a sweep was never needed in
that house.
WINE
There is no whine from any tree
save the grape
we rape.
There is no growl from any sheep,
no howl from the cow
whose milk we keep.
There’s bull’s bellow
for his mate
to create
as the seed in the fallow.
We grizzle and growl
like the howl
of the pup
when all’s up.
Why can’t we accept,
become quite adept
like the tree
and the flea
with the soil or the flesh,
be not caught in the mesh
of the things we can’t do,
skin and cause we can’t woo.
Be content to create
what we can
in the pan,
to learn
what we earn,
to sow
what we know
before it’s too late.
W.A.
OLIVE PELL.
TROUTING IN TANTRUMS
TTPPER MURRAY streams are now
clearing again. In the past few
months they have been restocked with
yearling trout, and the fly-fisherman
should have good sport.
Last season I strayed into an area
where the dry-fly purist pities the wet-
fly man ; one where the wet-fly man pities
the spinner ; and where all these hold the
fresh-bait man in abhorrence.
I followed the stream on poor roads,
asking occasional locals for directions to
a good camping-spot, with easy access to
the water. The information was always
readily given, but before parting the last
question invariably was “What fly are
you using?” in a tone one would use in
humoring a halfwit.
At last I found the right spot, 30 miles
from anywhere. Another trout-maniac
was camped by the stream, and after I
had settled in I went over to his tent to
talk about rods, tapered lines and flies.
He had flies enough to fill a showcase,
in plastic cases, special aluminium boxes,
in his hat, and especially in a number of
tobacco-tins. From the clutter of tins
I picked up and opened one, and at that
moment all hopes of a pleasant camp were
destroyed. The tin was filled with mud-
eyes, the deadliest trout-bait obtainable
in these Murray River tributaries.
After that there was nothing to do but
go fishing. As a tackle-shop dry-fly
purist myself, I cannot condone the use
of the mud-eye, but I must admit it will
greatly assist in getting the trout-man a
quick feed. This small creature can be
found at the edge of the stream where
the water is warmer. Here it begins the
process of becoming the glittering
dragonfly.
Step into the water where it’s an inch
or two deep and carefully turn over the
small flat stones. Be careful not to stir
up mud, and you will most likely find
several. Dark brown, almost black, up
to an inch and a half long, a fairly large
head for his body, six legs and tiny
wing-cases on his back will identify him.
In a good spot you can get about 30 in
half-an-hour or so, more than enough
for a day’s fishing and a full bag.
Hook him through from under the
head and bring the point of the hook
through the tail again. Use one or two
lead-shot on the hook and your finest
cast. Work upstream, cast lightly about
15ft. ahead, bring the rod slowly up as
the bait passes along towards you to be
ready to strike. You won’t have to wait
long.
FAR AND WIDE.


USURER
is the OP* spirit
v
m
v
m
m
m
Optimum
Performance
2i litre Maseratti
W Any experienced racing driver will
_ tell you the addition of extra BENZOL
to his fuel is a must to get OP* from his engine.
Gruelling racing speed won’t interest private motorists
but all the OP* advantages of BENZOL will. .. You’ll appreciate
the quicker starting, livelier acceleration and
| smoother, more positive power of BP
' SUPER or C.O.R STANDARD, the
only motor spirits containing BENZOL
BP
SUPER
SUPER
both containing
BENZOL
TANDARD
BP,SUPER, like Special Energol VISCO-STATIC Motor Oil-the original « grades in I oil
acclaimed by world motorists—ls worth so much more than the extra it costs. j
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Co Ltd
“T/T:
m
mm
m\\ i ×&?\
sm
tffi tms //<-&?*
T r ~ -1 f% >
j MF
;^| ; ' v - ; :f
£33
Ms.
mm
[hREPpI
rrrT-’fm-gaa
•••- m ■ ■ •■••:• -•- • • ■•■ •••■• gfeRM
6
a
o*o
: wm
ii
A 5 ?L>J
There are no
BETTER CEILINGS!
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings are renowned, not only for
their beauty of design, but because they are truly
permanent and trouble free. Decide now on INEX-
PENSIVE Wunderlich Metal Ceilings—Ceilings that
• LAST A LIFETIME • SELDOM NEED REPAINTING
• DO NOT STAIN OR CRACK 9 NEED NO REPAIRS
Ideal also for covering over faulty or dilapidated
ceilings in old homes.
Ask your local hardware merchant, 'phone MX 2411 or
write to Wunderlich Limited, Dept. M, Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for prices and illustrated catalogue.
modern
METAL CEILINGS
62 MV
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Coal Taxes and Prices
According to the Joint Coal
Board’s report for 1951-52,
allowable deductions under the
Income Tax Assessment Act now
relate to the following items of
expenditure —
(a) Miningr plant.
(b) Development.
(c) Housing and welfare buildings.
Colliery-proprietors are now
given several options in recover-
ing the foregoing expenditure—
(i) By annual instalments ascer-
tained by dividing residual capital
expenditure at balancing-date each
year by the number of years remain-
ing in the life of the mine. In this
case it is for the taxpayer to deter-
mine the remaining life, but a maxi-
mum period of 25 years is provided
for as at each balancing-date.
(ii) By deducting capital expendi-
ture on plant and development from
the income of the year of expendi-
ture, plus amounts appropriated from
the income of that year and to be
expended in the f<?llowing year on
plant and development. Any un-
expended balances of such appropria-
tion must be brought in as assessable
income in the following year.
(iii) An election may be made to
deduct specified units and/or portions
of plant and development expenditure.
Any expenditure not included in the
election becomes part of the residual
capital expenditure and qualifies for
deduction under (i) above.
(iv) Expenditure on housing and
welfare-buildings can only be de-
ducted in accordance with (i) above.
After considering all aspects
of an expert committee’s report,
the Joint Coal Board on January
23, 1952, advised all interested
parties of the following changes
in the pricing policy—
(а) That the existing basic margin
of profit would be increased to 6s.
a ton.
(б) If a margin of 6s. a ton did
not yield a return (after making pro-
vision for dividends bn preference
capital) of 25 p.c. on capital
employed up to a maximum of £3
per annual ton, the margin would be
increased to achieve this result before
providing for income-tax.
(c) Capital employed would '■com-
prise the proprietor’s paid-up capital,
plus any balance of profit-and-loss
account, general and contingencies
reserve, but would not include
specific provisions for income-tax,
depreciation or amortisation.
(d) Where a proprietor carried out
operations other than coal-production,
an allocation of shareholders’ funds
as between coal-production and the
other operations would be made.
(e) Amortisation and depreciation
would be allowed as a production-
cost at the rate of 10 p.c. per
annum on capital expenditure, or
such greater rate as would be
required if the remaining life of the
mine was less than 10 years. If for
income-tax purposes a higher rate
was allowable, the board would con-
sider the adoption of that rate. Since,
however, the Income Tax Assessment
Act now allows several alternatives
in writing-off capital expenditure
incurred after July 1, 1951, any
colliery-proprietor who proposes to
adopt a greater rate than 10 p.c.
should confer with the board as to
the rate to be adopted for price-
fixing purposes. Depreciation would
apply to the book-value of all active
colliery fixed assets as disclosed in
audited accounts as at June 30, 1951,
after deduction of amounts written-
off, or reserved against such assets.
Capital expenditure incurred after this
date would be treated on the same
basis. Capital expenditure in excess
of £3 per annual ton would not rank
for the depreciation-allowance.
(/) So far as specific cost-increases
of a general nature were concerned —
e.g., basic-wage variations —the board
would take the initiative in adjusting
prices. Where cost-variations were
of an individual nature, it would be
for the colliery-proprietor to present
a case for the board’s consideration.
It was a condition of all price-
fixations under this policy that
dividends in excess of 10 p.c. p.a.
could not be paid without the
approval in writing of the board.
The policy as set out in the
foregoing applies only to under-
ground mines ; prices for open-
cut mines being determined on
the’ circumstances and merits of
each individual case. Wherever
a proprietor operates an opencut*
mine in conjunction with under-
ground operations in the same
area, an average price is deter-
mined for the total production
from all sources.
Fiji Calling!
Authorities in Fiji are
encouraging the setting-up of
new industries and business
enterprises, and have pointed out
to The Bulletin that a new
company pays no company tax
on the first £5OOO (£lOO Fiji =
£ll2 Australian) of its net
profits for a period up to five
years if its objects are approved
by the Government as being in
the interests of the economic
development of the colony. A
company starting a new
secondary industry would, for
instance, qualify for this
concession.
Initial allowances of 20 p.c.
and annual depreciation allow-
ances are granted for income-tax
purposes on industrial and agri-
cultural plant. In the case of
buildings the initial allowance is
10 p.c.
Any person or company
engaged in an industry which
will encourage , the economic
development of the colony is
granted a special depreciation
allowance of 10 p.c. for the first
five years, in addition to the
initial and annual depreciation
allowances already mentioned.
Expenditure on improvements
to land, such as fencing or drain-
age, removal of timber or weeds,
preparation of land for agricul-
ture and prevention of soil-
erosion, may be offset to a con-
siderable extent against charge-
able income in any year.
Arrangements with the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Gov-
ernments for reciprocal tax-relief
provide that an Australian or
New Zealand company pays tax
on its Fiji profits at the lower
(i.e., the Fiji) rate. Companies
based in the United Kingdom
pay on the higher of the two
rates.
Special taxation concessions
have been granted to the gold-
mining industry to encourage
mining exploration.
In 1955 the basic income-tax
rate was reduced to Is. in the
pound. The rate increases by
.012 d. for each pound of charge-
able income until the maximum
of 6s. in the pound is reached
on £5OOO. Surtax is payable in
addition on chargeable incomes
above £lOOO. In addition to the
statutory allowance of £l5O, £250
is allowed for a wife, £5O for
each- child or other dependant
(up to five in number), up to
£5OO, or one-sixth of income, for
life-assurance premiums or super-
annuation payments, and the
annual cost between £5O and
£250 of educating each
dependent child.
The Government has given an
assurance that it will not pursue
a proposal that dividends should
be taxed in the hand of the share-
holder. Dividend-income is
liable to surtax only when the
total chargeable income exceeds
£lOOO. It is included in charge-
able income for the purpose of
determining the rate of normal
tax, but is itself not taxed.
The Protected Industries
Ordinance makes it possible for
the Government to give protec-
tion in the form of licensing to
new industries which might not
succeed unless protected in their
early stages.
An Agricultural and Industrial
Loans Board has been set up to
grant loans to farmers and to
small and medium-size business
undertakings.
The Commerce and Industries
section of the Secretariat will
answer inquiries from business-
men or potential investors, and
will help in the investigation of
promising industrial or com-
mercial possibilities. Letters
should be addressed to the
Commerce and Industries
Officer, Secretariat, Suva.
The Public Relations Office,
Suva, is able to give general
information about Fiji. The
Fiji Visitors’ Bureau (with
offices in Suva and at Nadi
Airport) will help visiting busi-
nessmen with travel arrange-
ments and accommodation.
Aramia Well, Papua
L. Owen comments: The
striking of basement-rocks in
the Aramia well in Western
Papua at the unexpectedly
high level of 6614 ft. has caused,
quite unnecessarily, some alarm
in investment circles. This, in
the jittery state of the Australian
oil-share market, was to be
anticipated, although any real
justification for the scare is as
difficult to deduce as most of
the other oil-share price-move-
ments —up or down.
Aramia was located, pre-
sumably, on a geophysically-
indicated strati graphical “high”
north of the Fly River, but it is
unlikely that the geophysical
interpreters forecast a rise of
around 800 ft. —if not more—ili
just over the 100 miles of westinj
which separates Aramia frorii
Omati.
My opinion—in spite of Stock
Exchange pessimism—is that the
occurrence of a very marked
stratigraphical (and possibly
structural) high in the Aramia
area is all to the good. Not
only does it prove the existence
of heavy warping within the
Western Papuan Basin, hut it
brings, also, the expectation of
the existence of commercial
petroleum at a commercially-
workable depth in that region—
a matter which will greatly
reduce both exploration and
exploitation drilling-costs.
Apart from commercial con-
siderations, the Aramia location
is of considerable geological in-
terest as data from it may offer
clues a§ to the conditions con-
trolling the west-east direction
of the lower reaches of the Fly
River and of the coastline, to the
south, for 150 miles east from
the Dutch New Guinea border.
For these and other reasons,
the drilling of the Morehead
well, about 80 miles south-west
of Aramia, is a particularly im-
portant operation. If it provides
evidence —which it well may do
—of rhythmic conditions of de-
position within the Western
Papuan Basin, the expectation
of commercial oil in south-west
Papua will be augmented to a
very considerable degree.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIH 4
OSUIJJVAtf
OTTO
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
‘ JAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
( “NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
For every gift occasion
m
m
■
wu'f-f&i-;
❖
s@
>r
4-
3»
>•; s
.T
Sr
• BIRTHDAY
• WEDDING
• CHRISTMAS
• GENERAL PURPOSES
GIVE
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
GIFT CHEQUES
ASS3OC
DONT BUY
A NEW COOKER
until you’ve checked the extra value of AGA
A new Cooker is perhaps the most important
purchase you ever make for a home. You need to
be absolutely certain that the model you select will
prove the best investment. What makes AGA a
better investment? This. The AGA is the ultimate
in cooking appliances—it costs less to own than
any other—in time it will pay for itself in fuel
savings.
If you can’t see AGA demonstrated, fill in the
coupon below and we’ll post you a booklet giving
you all the facts.
HERE ARE JUST A FEW REASONS
WHY AGA OFFERS BETTER VALUE:—
•It’s the world’s most economical cooker—it
cannot burn more than the guaranteed small
amount of fuel.
•You can cook for 2 or 10 at the same low cost.
» nn
" '"""WiiSiß
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
51-57 GOULBURN ST., SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
113 GRENFELL ST.. ADELAIDE
CNR. MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
MALLOCH BROS.
SO WILLIAM ST., PERTH
g 153
I
I
f
•Provides, at no extra cost, constant 50 gallon
supply of hot water. You enjoy ample hot water
for the laundry, bathroom and kitchen.
•Ready for instant use 24 hours a day—never
goes out.
•The CB model has two ovens—one for roasting
—one for simmering. Both thermostatically
controlled.
•Even oven heat guarantees fine cooking—just
like a baker’s oven. You can go out for the day
leaving the dinner in the simmering oven.
• AGA-CB has simmering and boiling hot plates.
Boiling plate boils four pints of water in four
minutes.
•Better insulated than any other cooker. Keeps
kitchen warmer in Winter and cooler in Summer.
•Children can’t burn themselves by leaning on it.
• 10 years’ guarantee means that actually you get
a lifetime of service from your AGA.
•Easy terms are available and fuel savings pro-
vide a substantial part of payments.
•Included in the price of the AGA is a wonderful
I set of cooking utensils specially machine-based.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details
free and without obligation.
NAME ....
‘- ' '
ADDRESS nnmr*
SB/2
London aiunail
From Herbert Holman
WHEN those purveyors of
homely fun, Wilfred and
Mabel Pickles, were married in
1930 they could scarcely have
imagined that the celebration of
their silver wedding would be a
public affair, enjoyed aurally
by hundreds of thousands and
visually by millions of folk.
Nor could they have had any
idea that this immensely popular
item of entertainment, indebted
entirely to their fame and
felicity, would happen, by for-
tunate coincidence for the
8.8. C., in the same week as the
inauguration of commercial
television.
At all events, nothing was
spared to make the two hour-
length features (prerecorded on
sound and “live” on TV) glitter
with celebrities, from J. B.
Priestley to Vera Lynn. Another
couple, Dorothy Ward and
Shaun Glenville, many years
senior in their married state,
sang the songs that Wilfred and
Mabel heard when they were
courting. Also present to give
testimony were the man who
introduced them, the man who
sold the wedding-ring, the lady
who made the wedding-dress
and the two people who know
them best —their mothers.
In fairness to Mr. and Mrs.
Pickles, who are to be seen
occasionally in the stalls on
second-nights, it must be said
that they seem to be a charming
couple, modest, sincere and
altogether nice to know. No
few words can pay tribute to the
infectious joy and real comfort
they have brought to so many
people, especially the sick and
underfavored. Nor are there
many achievements in life more
rewarding or more worthy of
congratulation than unbroken
marital felicity.
May Mr. Pickles, wife at
side, long continue to cheer the
multitude! And may they both
be allowed \o enjoy their mutual
domesticity—in private! For,
in their anxiety to compete for
the attention of the Common
Man, our providers of popular
entertainment are losing their
sense of proportion of what is,
and is not, good taste. With
high-pressure advertisers, too,
liable to join in the scramble,
the outlook for the intelligent
or discerning viewer is anything
but promising.
Political Snatches
Neither party is particularly
happy at present. When Par-
liament returns at the end of
October, after the exchange of
polite Tory confidences at the
Bournemouth conference and
the grimmer soul - searching
among the Socialist delegates at
Margate, there will be plenty of
accumulated trouble to harass
the Government Front Bench.
Cyprus, defence - expenditure
and national service are three
points of controversy. The
Maclean-Burgess affair, though
both parties are involved, will
undoubtedly become a party
issue. So, too, will Ministerial
statements on such vexed ques-
tions its the need to cut down
the wasteful and growing sub-
sidies on housing, bread, milk
and agriculture.
Inflation remains the major
worry, with a bursting and
irregular queue of wage-claims
at its heel. Mr. Butler’s smiling
attitude of leave-it-to-me-and-
everything-will-be-all-right will
need some demonstrative back-
ing if he is to regain the prestige
he has lost with his own back-
benchers and with his indepen-
dent well-wishers. Ministerial
changes are also due, that at
the Ministry of Labor being the
most important.
The Labor party, furrowed in
brow, will have learned why It
happened. It is unlikely that the
hard core of elderly diehards on
the constituency committees will
submit to re-thinking and
acknowledge that their immut-
able belief in “a more vigorous
Socialist policy” as a panacea
for all electoral ills is more
responsible for defeat than an
inadequacy of paid agents. So the
Labor party will be where it was
—in the words of a “Times”
leader, “an ageing party,
divided within itself, lacking
vigor at the top and zeal at the
bottom, inadequately organised
and inadequately financed, un-
able to attract the young men •
and women who might rejuven-
ate it.” (The number of League
of Youth branches has fallen
from 670 to 237 in three years.)
Mr. Attlee has had a slight
thrombosis and wants to retire.
But he can’t be spared. There’s
no one else, except perhaps Mr.
James Griffiths (65, and not the
best of administrators), who is
acceptable to all factions. Mr.
Gaitskell is next in line for the
succession, save only by a panic
compromise, and he’s a man of
positive action who is unlikely
to keep the peace by sitting
quiet, tight-mouthed.
There is a certain shift of
emphasis, though. Nye Bevan
likes his pigs and Buckingham-
shire estate. He seems to have
lost his taste for political cru-
sade. But what is more signifi-
cant is that his former lieu-
tenant, Harold Wilson, has
edged away from him, is in high
favor as seeker of electoral
home-truths and as the future
manager of the party. Thus a
working arrangement between
the Centre, identified with Mr.
Gaitskell, and the Left, identified
with Mr. Wilson, may ultimately
come about.
Affairs of State
The Old Vic “Julius Caesar,”
lately at the Edinburgh Festival,
is the most graphic, easy-to-
follow presentation that we have
seen. As if in answer to a
challenge, the producer, Michael
Benthall, has set out to tell the
story with emphatic directness
and simplicity.
To avoid confusion between
the several conspirators he has
chosen men of astonishing dis-
similarity in build, voice and
mien. The silences are long
(sometimes they suggest that the
prompter is not wideawake) and
the grouping is orthodox. The
players are kept moving up and
down steps, giving an uneasy
but apt restlessness, as of appre-
hension, to the earlier scenes.
There is also real distinction and
the reward of much painstaking
rehearsal in the expressive and
sensitive reactions of the crowd.
On the whole the acting just
fails to honor the production.
Paul Rogers, as Brutus, looks
nobler than he sounds, though
he conveys intellectual repose.
The Julius Caesar of Gerald
Cross has no voice of authority.
Portia (Wendy Hiller) is quite
away from tradition —an agon-
ised, self-pitying neurotic. The
astringency she imparts is un-
expected, leaving a sour coun-
tenance and a whining voice
engraved in the memory. An
old-fashioned radiance hangs
over John Neville’s handsome,
eloquent Marc Antony: he not
only epitomises the line of great
tragedians, from Betterton
through Kean and Macready to
Gielgud, but is nobler than
Brutus, Sir Galahad and Sidney
Carton together.
Fell conspiracy is also the
theme of “The Burnt Flower
Bed” (Arts Theatre). This is
one of 26 plays by the late Ugo
Betti, an anti-Fascist judge who
died last year, and who, because
of Henry Reed’s translations,
promises to become an intel-
lectual vogue.
It is an obtuse, highly-charged,
throbbing affair which defies a
brief and tidy summing-up. A
noxious politician (Leo McKern)
and his ailing Prime Minister
(Esme Percy) combine to per-
suade the former Prime Minis-
ter, an idealist and man-of-the-
people (Alexander Knox), to
return to office from seclusion.
Promise of peace is the sop, but
a war-provoking double-cross is
the intent. By way of subsidiary
theme, the idealist has a neurotic
wife (Yvonne Mitchell) verging
upon madness and their young
son has crashed to death in cir-
cumstances which, by implica-
tion, inculpate the father’s
conscience.
Here is an author who evi-
dently took to heart the mischief
that men do, their absence of
moral values under compulsion
of professional exigencies and the
appalling cruelty of human
behavior.


Have you time for
ALL your duties as
PROB^ E?
o
m
Executor?
If the complex problems of Estate administration are
too burdensome for you, as a private executor or
trustee, why not transfer your responsibilities to
Union Trustee? The Company may be appointed
to act in your place, or jointly with you as
co-executor.
With almost 70 years of experience in the adminis-
tration and management of Estates, the Company
is well qualified to render comprehensive service in
protecting and conserving Estate assets.
Call or write for a copy of the booklet “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees /’
V THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPART OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
QBMrponted fat Victor!*) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albnry, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Bockhampton and Ctaarleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
nrHIS is the big and still-expanding
industrial organisation which turns
out most of Australia’s paper-board and
kraft requirements. Over the last decade
the story has been one of marked and
persistent growth, the aim being to cap-
ture —partly with the aid of the tariff —
that section of the local market previ-
ously supplied by imports. Since 1945
the growth in total assets has been
£26,105,750 net, of which £19,981,357 was
in respect of fixed assets —freeholds,
plant and shares in subsidiary forestry
and brown-coal ventures —and the bal-
ance stocks and book-debts. To help
meet the outlay paid capital was increased
by £13,774,812, reserves by £3,022,386
(including £2,227,790 of share-premiums),
£3,250,000 was raised on debentures,
£1,864,975 on overdraft, and £1,323,216
was added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors.
Each year large sums have been
locked up in new plant, etc., which con-
tributed little, if anything, to net earn-
ings. Meanwhile the business proved
sensitive to changes in economic condi-
tions, as the setback in 1953 showed—
heavy imports, overstocking, price-
cutting, rise in unit costs and fall in
sales resulted in shrinkage of nearly 50
p.c. in both profits and the ord. div.
However, an excellent recovery has
been made since, and, with the major part
of the big programme of development out
of the way, earnings are now getting
more benefit from operational efficiency
and bigger output. The two principal
items of the programme awaiting com-
pletion are No. 2 paper-mill at Maryvale
(Vic.), expected to be in production early
in 1956, and the new 200,000-ton board-*
mill at Petrie (Q.), scheduled for comple-
tion by mid-1957.
The co.’s five mills —Maryvale, Mel-
bourne, Fairfield and Broadford (Vic.)
and Botany (N.S.W.) —are fed partly
from its own pulping plant and partly
from imported pulp from Scandinavia
and New Zealand, and are largely
powered with their own generating equip-
ment, while most of the feed for the
boilers comes from a jointly-owned
brown-coal deposit at Bacchus Marsh.
A.P.M. Forests Pty., which owns large
stands of pine and eucalypt, looks after
the supply of pulp-wood. A research
and development section wages constant
war against costs by steadily improving
technical and operational efficiency, and
by opening up new uses and therefore
markets for the co.’s varied products.
Last term more new items of plant
came into continuous production, and
output of basic materials and unit costs
benefited:
/— I—Production 1 —Production N Sales.
Wood Paper and Paper and
Tear to Pulp, Boards, Boards.
June 30, Tons. Tons. Tons.
1951 .. .. 43,283 148,194 147,892
1952 .. .. 47,535 160,037 154,662
1953 .. .. 36,307 102,317 96,143
1954 .. .. 61,609 166,276 168,976 .
. 1955 .. .. 73,245 196,008 188,358
Sales increased by 11.4 p.c. in tonnage
and by 6.3 p.c. in value (£20,031,867, up
£1,195,687). On the average the co.’s
own selling-prices were reduced, while
those of competitive lines from overseas
increased, due partly to tariff adjustments.
After setting aside £1,397,238 (up
£385,430) for depreciation, £1,205,900 (up
£84,700) for , income-, payroll- and land-
taxes and £150,000 (down £50,000) for
long-service leave, the net result benefited
by £213,381:
Parent Only.
—Dividends; ——^
Net Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. 11.2 p.c. serves. serves.
£/ £/ & £/ £»
1951.. 668,978 60,000 519,500 89,478 1,674,951
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 1,649,951
Share premiums, £1,054,674 ..2,704,625
8.9 p.c.
1952. .1,070,299 60,000 769,500 240,799 2,945,424
To staff funds, £25,000 .. .. 2,920,424
Issue exes, written off, £44,844 .. 2,875,580
Share premiums, £420,411 .. ..3,295,991
4.5 p.c.
1953.. 549,426 159,956 575,500 3,109,961
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..3,099,961
Reserves capitalised, £492,859 .. 2,607,102
Tax overprovided 1953, £95,000 .. 2,702,102
Unexplained reduction, £8765 ..2,693,327
6.5 p.c.
1954. .1,476,708 190,312 893,363 393,033 3,086,360
Unexplained reduction, £6BOO ..3,079,560
7.5 p.c.
1955. .1,690,089 210,000 1,010,611 469,478 3,549,038
The £1,690,089 of profit claimed was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
10.9 p.c. on ord. capital as against 9.4,
3, 11.7, 13.1 and 9.4 p.c. back to 1950.
A point was added to the div., raising it
to 7i p.c., leaving £469,478 (27.7 p.c.)
of the year’s net earnings to plough back
into the business.
The year’s net addition to the chief
earning assets (freeholds and plant) was
£883,611:
Parent Only.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. £2,843,328 £3,500,000 £3,500,000
Ord. .. 13,638,212 13,474,812 13,474,812
Reserves .. 3,099,961 3,086,360 3,549,038
Debentures .. 3,250,000 3,250,000 3,250,000
Mortgages .. 554,389 523,173 503,192
Overdrafts .. 2,963,955 936,284 1,864,975
Other cr’tors.. 865,116 1,142,402 1,574,000
Tax reserve .. 1,665,169 2,478,697 1,874,103
Staff funds .. 60,000 260,000 360,000
Final divs. .. 641,534 643,992 711,367
Total .. £29,581,664 £29,295,720 £30,661,487
Freehold and
plant .. 19,758,861 20,237,900 21,121,511
Shares other cos. 1,249,079 1,239,999 1,084,998
Stock .. . . 5,213,107 3,960,411 4,174,450
Book debts .. 3,338,535 3,829,330 4,258,028
Cash, etc. .. 27,082 28,080 22,500
Total .. £29,581,664 £29,295,720 £30,661,487
The additions to stocks (up £214,039)
and book-debts (up £428,698) reflect
bigger trading. To help meet the year’s
net outlay the co. went to its bankers
for an extra £928,691 and increased the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£431,598. Excluding the provisions for
tax, staff and final divs., there was only
7s. of outside money in the business for
every £ belonging to shareholders when
the books closed.
Import-restrictions should help the
current year’s sales, though rising costs
can be expected to gobble much of the
gain. Doubtful of what the future holds,
the market prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at
21s. lOd. (225. 6d. a year ago) to return
6.8 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 19s. Bd. yield 6.1 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £5 17s. 3d. prefs. and 255. 3d.
ord.
Berlei, Ltd.
nrHE name Berlei is more widely known
to women than to men readers of
these columns. The parent co. and its
three Australasian offshoots —Berlei Pty.
(Melbourne), Warner’s “Le Gant” Pty.
(Sydney) and Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd. —are a
well-handled and prosperous group to
which a fourth unit, Sarong Foundations
Pty. (Sydney), was added in January last.
The new co., which is still in the prepara-
tory stage of operations, holds the Aus-
tralian franchise of world-patented
Sarong garments, which are ‘‘expected
to achieve a popularity similar to that
which they have earned overseas,” the
board says. Another subsidiary, Berlei
(U.K.), Ltd. (London), is also a good
profit-earner, whose turnover exceeded
£1,000,000 last term, to which manufac-
ture and sale of Sarong garments con-
tributed substantially.
Over the last decade £519,153 —it
brought with it £122,343 of share-
premiums—was added to the parent’s
paid capital, raising the figure to
£709,210, of which £50,000 carries a
fixed cumulative 8 p.c. In December,
1953, the ords. were rewarded with
£188*346 of bonus-scrip, two for five,
thus making the 10 p.c. div., which has
been an annual event since 1936, worth
14 p.c. on capital as it stood before the
gift. In February, 1954, the board issued
£250,000 of 5£ p.c. registered unsecured
notes, redeemable June 30, 1959, by
allotment of ord. shares at a premium of
6s. Bd. each, or in cash at the option of
the holder.
These and other things, including the
history of the dividend rate, suggest that
the distribution might be maintained at
10 p.c. for a while, at any rate. Still, the
market, which likes the way the business
is shaping, is prepared to wait for further
benefits. It therefore prices the f.-p. £1
ords. at 435. 6d. (425. 9d. a year ago) to
give an immediate return of 4.6 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 5.7 p.c. should the
rate be lifted to 12* p.c. The pref. div.
and 12i p.c. to the ords. on capital as it
now stands would call for £42,000-odd
less than average net earnings for the last
two years. The well-protected prefs. at
265. yield 6.1 p.c. After sales of the £lOO
notes at £126 10s., buyers recently offered
£127 with sellers standing off at £l3O. At
the middle price of £l2B 10s. the return
on conversion would be \5.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, or 7.3 p.c. on a 12£ p.c.
distribution, with prospects of a capital
gain as well.
Australian production of foundation-
garments has moved in this way over the
last three years:
Corsets. Corselets, Brassieres,
’OOO ’OOO ’OOO
Dozen. Dozen. Dozen.
1952-53 .. 117.6 4.6 329.7
1963-54 .. 148.4 7.0 416.9
1954-55 .. 138.8 6.8 398.9
For the 12 months to June 30 last out-
put of corsets was down 6.5 p.c. and of
brassieres 4.3 p.c. The co.’s turnover,
however, was only £4650 lighter at
£2,070,107, despite the fact that the
factories were involved in “a good deal
of developmental work, which caused a
temporary drop in production per man-
hour.” So, although the subsidiaries
sent along more (£50,428, up £21,054)
and the allowance for taxation was
lighter (£32,000, down £21,000), there
was a contraction of £22,153 in net
earnings:
, Dividends \
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Berves.
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 58,859 4000 10 p.c. = 28,750 26,109 416,618
Surplus tax, £lBOO *18,418
To staff fund, £8450 .. .. .. 409,968
1952.. 60,657 4000 10 p.c. = 37,544 19,113 429,081
To tax reserve, £lBl3 .. .. ..427,268
To staff fund, £9913 .. ..417,355
1953.. 82,627 4000 10 p.c. = 47,086 31,541 448,896
Assets revaluation, £11,316 .. • •
Reserves capitalised, £188,346 .. .. 271,866
From tax reserve, £7956 net .. • • 279,822
To staff fund, £8948.. •■I 70,743 350,565
1954.. 140.194.4000 10 p.c. = 56,503 J
To staff fund, etc., £9541 .. \ 38,578 389,143
1955.. 4000 10 p.c. = 65,922 )
The £118,041 of profit covered the pref.
div. and 16.1 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 20.6, 16.7, 15.1, 19.1 and 20.9 p.c.
back to 1950. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was a comfortable 10.7 p.c. So
the note (£250,000) and mortgage
(£100,000) moneys are earning more than
their keep.
During the year a new bulk-store and
garage premises were bought, and free-
holds increased by £63,936 and plant by
£14,971:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £519,369 £709,210 £709,210
Reserves .. .. 448,896 350,565 389,143
Notes .. .. 217,875 250,000
Mortgage . . .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Overdraft .. .. 8,820 285,371 238,106
Creditors, etc. .. 154,198 139,004 171,884
Tax provision .. 50,000 54,913 31,990
Final div. .. 25,543 34,960 34,961
Total .. £1,306,826 £1,891,898 £1,925,294
Freeholds .. 135,201 134,339 198,275
Plant .. .. 90,808 112,482 127,453
Investments* .. 140,875 167,815 239,187
Stocks .. .. 700,666 1,204,891 1,106,979
Book debts .. 235,,499 269,545 246,588
Cash, etc. .. 3,777 2,826 6,812
Total .. £1,306,826 £1,891,898 £1,925,294
* Shares in subsidiary and associated cos.
The price paid for the Sarong business
isn’t mentioned, but shares in subsidiaries
increased by £71,373. The drops in stocks
(down £97,912) and book-debts (down
£22,857) reflect the more difficult trading
conditions.
Turnover has picked up since the close
of accounts, and import-restrictions will
lessen competition from overseas.
Malleys, Ltd. (Sydney)
36-year-old and its recently-
acquired subsidiaries turn out
builders’ and plumbers’ hardware and
sheet-metal products, as well as bath-
heaters, hot-water systems, dairy utensils,
washing-machines, kitchenware, and steel
porcelain enamel baths, etc.
On the heels of a one-for-two issue of
bonus-scrip in 1951, and the co.’s with-
drawal from the retail field, which meant
closing three branches in and around
Sydney and one at Brisbane, came a
slackening of activity in the building
trade. There was a sharp recession in net
earnings in the 1953 and 1954 terms, and
it looked as if the 8 p.c. to the ords.—
worth 10.3 p.c. on capital as it stood
before bonus share-issue —might be in
danger.
In 1952 A. Joyce and Co. (Melbourne),
makers of dairy utensils, was taken over,
and additional plant was installed for
manufacture of a fuller range of the
parent co.’s products. At the same time
the small business of National V'ater
Heaters Pty. was absorbed into the
parent’s business. In the following year
another small concern!, John Roberts
Pty. (Sydney), which turns out washing-
machines, was taken over and output
expanded. And in 1954 a new line, steel
porcelain enamel baths, was added to
the list of manufactures. The inevitable
dislocation which followed reorganisa-
tion and extension of activities had its'
effect upon net earnings, too.
However, no time was lost in the re-
construction, and profitable employment
was promptly found for the £191,859
of fresh share-capital gathered about
halfway through the last term. With the
help of a strong revival in the building
and ancillary trades, and comparatively
steadier operating costs, all sections of
the undertaking contributed to the re-
markable resilience of net earnings for
the year to June 30 last.
After allowing £29,046 (up £10,510)
for depreciation and whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation, the net
figure took a leap of £86,349, reaching
£128,596, which is over three times better
than the previous year’s result:
Parent Co.
f-> Dividends —^
Pref. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ &
1951.. 80,565 2,700 10 p.c. = 42,500 35,365 423,674
Reserves capitalised, £212,382 .. 211,292
Net share premiums, £7600 .. .. 218.892
Surplus sale assets, £44,055 .. .. 262,947
June, 8 p.c.
1952.. 88,237 2,441 8 p.c. = 51,863 33,933 296,880
Share premiums, £3654 .. •. 300,534
Capital profit, £633 .. .. • • 301,067
1953.. 63,078 2,400 8 p.c. = 57,028 3,650 304,717
Reserves disappear, £4460 .. .. 300,257
1954.. 42.247.2,700 8 p.c. = 57,028 , 282,776
To bad debts reserve, £7908 .. .. 274,868
Capital loss, £6516 268,352
1955 128,596 2,700 8 p.c. = 63.933 61,963 330,315
Share-issue exes., £4524 .. • • 325,791
t After deducting intangibles, £22,682 at 30/6/’55.
The £128,596 of profit was equal to 15.1
p.c. on average capital (pref. and ords.
combined), compared with 5.6, 8.5 and
11.8 p.c. for the three preceding terms.
That leaves out of the reckoning a capi-
tal loss of £6516 on sale of a Melbourne
property which was charged against re-
serves. A year ago the co.’s articles
were altered to allow the board to con-
vert the 30,000 £1 9 p.c. prefs. into ord.
shares on a basis to be determined. No
action has yet been taken in the matter.
The ord. div. was maintained at 8 p.c.
Of the £61,963 (48.2 p.c. of the year’s
profit) that remained, £4524 was used to


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
1 Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
of experience in supplying the farmer
with dependable power for every purpose
HUSTON HORNSBY
DIESEL ENGINES
yi' vV
«J im
m
\y L
SHEARING
There’s a Ruston & Hornsby diesel engine available for
every one of the varied power needs of the man on
the land. The complete Ruston & Hornsby range in-
cludes both vertical and horizontal engines, and all
models are available from stock or for very early delivery.
You are invited to contact us, using the coupon pro-
vided, concerning your own individual power require-
ments. By doing so you will have all the advantages of
dealing directly with the makers, and benefit from
Ruston & Hornsby’s 60 years experience in supplying
dependable power for every agricultural need.
RUSTON & HORNSBY
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
42 Pacific Highway, North Sydney.
174 King Street, Melbourne.
83 Albert Street, Brisbane.
198 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
I AFTER SALES
AND SPARE PARTS SERVICE
Ruston & Hornsby’s first-class, after-sale, and spare
parts service guarantees trouble-free operationof
your Ruston & Hornsby diesel engine.
TERMS AVAILABLE
To Ruston & Hornsby:
Please send me full particulars of Ruston & Hornsby {
Diesel Engines—with prices including terms.
Approx, h.p. required is j
for driving j
NAME {
ADDRESS
R.H.34.24.8.
Faith in Ihc
Future
Some beautiful cotton fields which I saw at
Casa Grande, Arizona, reminded me of the
potential for cotton-growing in our own Australia.
Once —the sight recalled to me —a friend had
wagered and won, in my presence, on the fact
that as far back as the 1860’s, during the American
Civil War, the cotton State of Queensland was
producing more cotton than it has been for many
a recent year.
The reasons for the industry’s long series of
ups-and-downs are political and economic, and
we need not dwell upon them here.
Suffice it to say now that cotton is the one
rural industry in Australia with big possibilities
that still remains to be developed to supply a major
home market.
It is a well-established truth that only a small
fraction of our raw cotton requirements is pro-
duced in our own country; the rest is brought in,
chiefly from the U.S.A., India, Pakistan and
Brazil.
And in addition to the raw cotton introduced
for the spinning mills, a still greater volume is
imported in the form of manufactured goods.
At this stage of Australia’s progress, when
the balance of imports and exports is vital, and
when dollar-spending is highly important, it seems
to me the natural time to give cotton a permanently
stable place in the nation’s agricultural economy.
I see two excellent “plus-signs”: The Com-
monwealth Government has extended the Cotton
Bounty Act to provide a guaranteed price for seed
cotton to the end of 1958; and the Queensland
Government is taking positive steps to encourage
plantings.
When I return to Australia soon I hope to
bring with me the latest information on American
cotton culture, and on the methods employed in
mechanical harvesting.
For I am convinced that in this, as in so many
of the industries with which the Australian future
is linked, the answer to cost and labour difficulties
is Mechanisation.
7
write off the cost of the last new
share-issue.
Movements in balance-sheet
figures are in step with expanding
activity:
Parent Co.
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £742,854 £934,713
Reserves .. 305,458 348,473
Mortgages .. 50,000 50,000
Overdraft .. 324,164 335,592
Creditors, etc.* .. 157,231 341,933
Final divs. .. 57,636 63,933
£1,637,343 £2,074,644
Freeholds, etc. . . 336,194 300,644
Plant, etc. .. 244,704 286,138
Shareholdings .. 180,302 180,302
Stocks . . .. 442,193 688,601
Book debts .. 410,678 595,413
Cash, etc. .. 590 864
Intangibles 22,682 22,682
£1,637,343 £2,074,644
* Includes provision for taxation.
The reduction of £35,500 in free-
holds reflects sale of the Mel-
bourne property already referred
to. The proceeds, together with
the new capital (£191,859), an
extra £11,428 from the bank and
£184,702 from sundry creditors,
went into stocks (up £246,408)
and book-debts (up £184,735).
Turnover has continued at a
“satisfactory” level since the
close of accounts. But the
market, doubtful of what the
future holds for the business,
prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at 235. 6d.
(21s. 6d. in January last) to
return 6.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. 'At 245. 3d. the prefs.
yield 7.4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribu-
tion. Net tangible cover is £42
prefs. and 275. Bd. ords.
Elphinstones, Ltd.
'T'HE post-war boom in the
motor trade sent paid capital
of this small Brisbane wholesale
distributor of automotive parts
and accessories up from £40,739
in 1948 (when the public became
interested) to £151,978 at Feb-
ruary 28 last. Of the increase
£40,739 was a one-for-one bonus
scrip-issue and the balance cash,
including £40,500 of 5 p.c. pref.
money. Originally there were
three classes of ord. shares —
ords., B ords. (bonus-shares
which didn’t participate in tax-
free divs.), and C ords. (new
issues since 1952). The lot were
merged into one class in August,
1953.
To help finance further expan-
sion, especially at the Towns-
ville, Rockhampton and Too-
woomba branches, those on the
register (pref. and ord.) at Sep-
tember 23 last were offered
37,994 new £1 ords. at par, pay-
able ss. application and allot-
ment November 15, and three
calls of ss. each on March 1,
June 1 and September 1, 1956.
When all the money is in paid
capital will be £189,972, on
which the pref. div. and 8 p.c. to
the ords. will call for £3672 less
profit than was shown last term.
The f.-p. £1 ords. at 275., ex
rights, return 5.9 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The rights
recently sold at ss. 6d., making
total cost, including brokerage,
255. 10d., at which figure the
return would be 6.2 p.c. on the
same div. basis. The prefs. at
17s. 9d. yield 5.6 p.c. Net tang-
ible cover (including the new
issue) is £6 6s. prefs. and 225. 7d.
ords.
Backbone of the business is
the sole agency in Queensland
for Lucas batteries and C.A.V.
diesel-fuel-injection equipment.
Other agencies cover a wide
range of accessories and replace-
ment parts for cars, motor-cycles
and bicycles, and the co.’s own
workshops, specialising in elec-
trical repairs and servicing,
make a handy contribution to
the pool, too. The growing
number of ageing vehicles on the
roads has strengthened demand
for replacements, and profits
have responded to expanding
turnover:
f* —Dividends Re- Re-
Feb., Prft. Pref. Ord. Total.serves. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
’51..10,719 5 12i ■= 6/49 4,470 74,169
Profit sale assets, £4793 .. 75,962
Reserves capitalised, *£40,739.. 35,223
Unexplained addition, £185.. 35,408
'52..13,779 5 7}f= 7,118 6,661 42,069
Profit sale assets, £4479 .. 46,548
Share-issue expenses written
off, £l3BB 45,160
Unexplained addition, £lB3O. . 46,990
’53..15,686 5 19J*= 10,449 5,237 52,227
’54..18,205 6 8 =10,943 7,262 69,489
Net loss sale assets, £998 .. 58,491
’55..17,655 5 8 = 10,943 6,712 65,203
17-J p.c. original ords., 5 p.c. B ords.
* 194 p.c. tax-free to original ords., nil
B "ords., and 8 p.c. on new O ords.
The slip of £550 in last term’s
net earnings was due to pro-
vision of an extra £lOOO (£2OOO
in all) for long-service leave and
of £1750 (nil previous term) for
doubtful debts. The £17,655 of
profit claimed was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 14
p.c. on ord. capital as against
14.5 p.c. for the previous term.
The div. was maintained at 8
p.c. Too much notice need not
be taken of previous distribu-
tion rates, which were on a mixed
scale, for reasons already
explained.
Continued growth of the
business and modernisation of
premises are the features of
balance-sheet figures:—•’
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. £40,500 £40,500 £40,500
Ord. . . 111,478 111,478 111,478
Reserves .. 52,226 59,489 65,203
Mortgage .. 14,700 14,100 13,500
Overdrafts . . 9,843 45,887 47,697
Creditors, etc. 37,806 43,329 66,350
Tax prov’s’n 31,313 29,447 30,059
Final divs. 8,424 8,918 8,918
£306,290 £353,148 £383,705
Freeholds .. 88,480 109,604 114,086
Plant, etc.. . 16,151 22,926 25,511
Stock .. 122,540 134,445 148,202
Debtors .. 75,290 81,908 91,535
Cash, etc. .. 3,829 4,267 4,371
£306,290 £353,148 £383,705
To meet the year’s net growth of
£30,557 in total assets, mainly
stocks (up £13,757) and book-
debts (up £9629), the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
was increased by £23,021 and the
overdraft by £lBlO. Excluding
tax-provision and final divs.,
there was 10s. 3d. of outside
money in the business for every
£ belonging to shareholders when
the books closed. . The co.’s
experience in 1952 and 1953
suggests that import-restrictions
might have little effect upon net
earnings.
Central Victoria Dredging
It has been a disappointing
venture for shareholders, who
have never received a div., and,
unless something unexpected
happens, don’t look like ever
getting one. Mounting costs,
spurred by inflation, and the
difficult nature of some of the
ground and failure of recoveries
generally to live up to bore-
values have been the chief
troubles.
Operations for the year to
March 31 last resulted in a loss
of £18,444 as against a profit of
£4483 for the previous term. The
co. has two big and efficient
dredges, each capable of
handling 2,000,000 c.y. p.a. The
one on the Jim Crow area, New-
stead (Vic.), closed down in July,
1954, and has been placed on a
care-and-maintenance basis. It
earned a working profit of £4404
during its last four months’
work. Its transfer to the near-by
Guildford area (1.91 gr. ground)
would be uneconomical.
The other machine, on the
Amphitheatre area, Avoca (Vic.),
handled 1,290,521 c.y., averaging
1.54 gr., at a working loss of
£16,801. It had been digging
its way back into better-grade
ground, which averaged 2.14 gr.
for the last half of the term.
Still, with costs at 15.09 d., 2. Mgr.
yields a profit of only 1.6 d. per
yard with gold at £l5 12s. 6d. a
fine ounce. So, even with the
gold subsidy added, shareholders’
prospects are not bright.
At March 31 last, cash and
book-debts, etc., totalled £12,390
and stores £66,842. There was
£77,000 coming to Western
Mining Corp. (which owns half
the capital), £5359 to sundry
creditors, and £9044 was ear-
marked for land reconditioning.
Paid capital is £390,000 in f.-p.
10s. shares, which now fetch
around Is. 6d. in the market as
against a high of 18s. 6d. in
1953.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Bowls of pink roses, iris and- pink and
white blossom decorated the home of
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. J. E. Hewitt
when they entertained about 100 friends
at a late-afternoon party. Wearing an
A-line frock of black silk organza, Mrs.
Hewitt was assisted by her daughters
Barbara, Jennifer and Gillian. Among
the guests were Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins and Lady Collins (she in a frock
of caramel-toned silk and tiny matching
cap), Lieut.-General Sir Sidney Rowell
and Lady Rowell, Sir Lawrence and Lady
Wackett, and Sir John and Lady Teas-
dale; Mrs. F. H. Wright, her son Heqth-
cote and his wife, Air-Commodore Denis
Creal and Mrs. Creal, French Consul
M. le Bas de Plumetot and his wife (her
choice a black velvet ballerina skirt and
black chiffon pleated blouse), the Earl
Daums (her navy silk frock patterned in
red and white coin-spots), the W. W.
Killoughs, Mr. Justice Dean arid Mrs.
Dean, Mr. Justice Sholl and Mrs. Sholl,
Mr. and Mrs. John Cassori, Mr. and Mrs.
Keith Morrison, Dr. and Mrs. K.
McLean, the Norman Robinsons, Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Gove and U.S. Consul
Givon Parsons and Mrs. Parsons.
☆ ☆ tf
At the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. annual State
Ball, held at the Royale, 40 girls from
all over Victoria competed for the honor
of becoming R.S.L. Belle of Belles. After
the other girls had been presented the
winner, Ellen Paterson,,of South Gipps-
land, danced with the Governor, Sir
Dallas Brooks. Red, white and blue
balloons were used in the decorations,
and the official enclosure was, with
shrubs and small trees, a miniature
replica of a bushland scene.
Caroline and Lynette (schoolgirl
daughters of the State vice-president,
Mr* M. Bouchier, and Mrs. Bouchier),
dressed as an early-Victorian pair in
ruffled laces and powdered wigs, pre-
sented Lady Brooks and other women in
the official party with flower-sprays. The
official guests were met by the State
president, Mr. D. Wilson, and his
daughter, Mrs. D. J. McLean, whose ice-
blue satin gown was patterned in deeper
blue flowers. They were assisted by the
senior vice-president, Mr. D. Routley,
and Mrs. Routley, and Mr. and Mrs.
C. W. Joyce. 1
Lady Brooks wore a flowing aqua-blue
crepe romaine gown, and Mrs. Henry
Bolte (who \accompanied the Premier),
wore bouffant pink laces with black
velvet ribbon outlining the ruching on
skirt and bodice. Mrs. Harold Holt, who
was one of the competition-judges, chose
a full-skirted gown of white satin, the
strapless top embroidered in gold. Others
in the official party were Vice-Admiral
Sir John Collins and Lady Collins,
Colonel R. W. Spraggett and Mrs.
Spraggett, Colonel and Mrs. Allan
Spowers, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. Selleck), Prof,
and Mrs. A. Amies and Air-Commodore
and Mrs. H. G. Acton.
* a ☆
Mr. and Mrs. Athol Teare, of Toorak,
invited many friends to a midday party
to celebrate the engagement of their
younger daughter Marion to John
Raymond Hyde, younger son of Mr.
and Mrs. W. J. Hyde, of London.
Marion, who is in England (she is one
of the seven hostesses at the Australian
Food Fair in one of London’s largest
department-stores), met her fiance last
January. They plan to marry late next
year.
☆ ☆ ☆
Prince Henry’s Hospital will benefit
from the Cordiality Club’s annual ball,
held in the St. Kilda Town Hall on
Guineas Eve. Club president Ralph
Bryant and Mrs. Bryant (her strapless
gown of pale-blue Chantilly-lace) received
the official guests, among whom were
the vice-president of the hospital, Mr.
W. K. Burnside, and his wife (her full-
skirted gown of gold shot-taffeta), Mr.
and Mrs. I. L. Schroder, Mr. and Mrs.
R. L. Thomas (she in midnight-blue
faille), Mr. and Mrs. F. Tripper, Colonel
Wallis, Beverlie Bryant and Dr. lan
Warner.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the buffet-dinner party given by Mr.
and Mrs. Gray Staley at their Brighton
home host and hostess had the assistance
of their daughters, Mrs. Betty O’Connor
and Mrs. Bryan Boston. Among the
guests were Sir Norman and Lady
Martin, Dr. and Mrs. J. O’Collins, Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Hobbs, Mrs. Margaret
Saker and her Mrs. Edna
Taylor, Mrs. Constance Day, Mrs. H.
Silk, Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus, Mr.
and Mrs. Saul Aarons, Mrs. Harry Wiere
and Mildred Seymour.
Morgan St. John, who will play the
role of Lalume in the musical “Kismet,”
is a blonde, tall American with a spark-
ling personality. After having studied
drama and singing she graduated into the
Chicago Light Opera Co. and appeared
in many productions. Morgan also
danced with the Stigler Dancers, a group
specialising in modern and classical
ballet. “Annie Get Your Gun” and “My
Pal Joey” are two musicals in which she
has appeared. She has also sung in
opera, and had her own television-show
in the U.S. Photo by Bruno (Holly-
wood).
Some ensembles noted at the Guineas
meeting at Caulfield:
Mrs. Len Buxton’s oatmeal tailored
suit, pepped-up with cerise velvet gloves
to match her tiny straw hat trimmed with
small flowers; Mrs. Dougal Donald’s
oatmeal tweeds, worn with a small white
hat finished with a halo of wattle ; Mrs.
Norman Robinson’s rose-petal hat,
which went with a black-wool frock
draped to one side and trimmed with
black buttons; Mrs. Alan Powell’s
black-wool suit, which had a front drape
lined with black Persian lamb to match a
huge muff; Lady Mayoress Mrs. F.
Selleck’s frock of fine navy wool, which
had a posy of white violets in the square
neckline, and her tiny hat of blue-and-
white'woven straw.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Saul Aarons, who with her
husband recently returned from an over-
seas tour, was guest-of-honor at a
luncheon-party given by Mrs. Royden
Honeyman and Mrs. Constance Day at
the Hotel Australia. Smart black
ensembles were worn by Mrs. Honeyman
and the guest-of-honor ; Mrs. Day chose
a grey suit and swathed grey velvet head-
hugging cap. Among the guests were
Mrs. P. L. Coleman, Mrs. A. Griffiths,
Mrs. Eric Cottrell and Mrs. H. Silk.
# V V
At the English Speaking Union Ball
at the Palais de Danse, St. Kilda, official
guests included the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Selleck), she
wearing a gown of pale-champagne satin,
the bodice overlaid with self-toned
Duchesse lace embroidered with rhine-
stones and pearls ; U.S. Consul-General
Gerald Warner and his wife (her gown
of turquoise - blue guipure lace);
Canadian Trade Secretary Roy Blake and
Mrs. Blake (her white slipper-satins
patterned in an applique lace-design);
Mr. and Mrs. Max Dietrich (her gown
of black satin having jet beads on the
bodice); Major-Gen. F. Kingsley Norris
and Mrs. Norris, and Mr. Justice Sholl
and Mrs. Sholl.
Mrs. Dan Reddan chose pink satin,
Pamela Middleton aqua-blue satin. Mrs.
W. Banks’s frock of magnolia satin was
trimmed with cabochons and seed-pearls.
Winifred Coates danced in haze-blue
shot-satin, Joy Bones in white satin
striped with gold.
SYDNEY
Confirmation of the claim that the
Black and White Ball is the best-dressed
event of the year was amply supplied in
the crowd of over 1000 at the Troc. last
week. The ball lent great aid to the
Royal Blind Society of N.S.W. About
95 per cent, of the dresses kept either one
or other, or a mixture of both, of the
title-colors ; the rest were either blues or
reds. The H-line and the “Trumpet”-
line had their devotees, but the great
majority of frocks and gowns were full-
skirted, the accent .on grace and elegance
rather than on the bizarre. *
Mrs. Noel Vincent’s decor made strik-
ing use of black-and-white streamers
hung canopy-fashion all round the ceil-
ing ; white trellis-work carried trails of
black ivy ; official-enclosure couches and
the foyer-lounge were treated effectively
with black-and-white ticking. Enormous
papier mache flowers adorned the foyer.
The Governor, Sir John Northcott, and
his daughter, Mrs. Russell Nash (who
wore her parchment brocade wedding-
dress), were received by the president
of the ball-committee, Mrs. Dick Allen,
whose draped’ white French crepe gown
was encrusted with rhinestones. The
ball’s patroness, Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere,
wore satin gloves with her sheath-gown
of white ribbon-lace, which flared from
the knees.
Prize for the best dress in the Marrieds
section went to Mrs. Clive Hall, whose
beautiful strapless black velvets had a
flounce of taffeta at the back of the slim
skirt. Mrs. F. J. Palmer was second in a
graceful long-sleeved white gown which
had a ruched tulle skirt banded with
guipure-lace. Barbara Potter carried the
banner of the Single Girls with a dress
of white organza which had an apron-
front ; the full skirt was slightly trained.
Lorraine Wilson was runner-up in a slim-
fitting dress of patterned Oriental bro-
cade that featured a circular flounce
below the knee.
The official party included Vice-
Admiral Sir Alan Scott-Moncrieff and
Lady Scott-Moncrieff, Rear-Admiral H.
J. Buchanan and his wife, Air-Vice-
Marshal A. L. Walters and Mrs. Walters,
and Lieut.-General E. W. Woodward and
Mrs. Woodward.
Among notable frocks were Mrs. John
Atwill’s satins, cut on princess-lines;
Romayne Hordern’s white ruched chiffon
ballerina, with a shoulder-strap of pink
and white flowers ; Mrs. Hector Living-
stone’s black brocades, the neckline
edged with strawberry-pink chiffon; Mme.
de Montrousse’s Jean Patou of black
organdie with its overblouse of matching
lace ; Ann Livingstone’s black-and-white-
spotted silk-taffetas; Mrs. C. Ryrie’s
white flounced with black organdie; and
Mrs. D. Cross’s full-skirted black nylon-
net with bodice of white guipure-lace.
ir if it
Vice-Admiral Sir Alan Scott-Moncrieff,
K. R.N., C.I.C. Far Eastern Station,
swiftly and lucidly limned the world
scene and the part our combined navies
can play in it in his speech at the reception
given by the Royal Empire Society, at
which he and Lady Scott-Moncrieff were
guests-of-honor. The address of welcome
was given by the society’s president, Dr.
Garnet Halloran, whose wife wore a
frock of mushroom-pink French-wool.
Lady Scott-Moncrieff wore with her grey
suit and pale-cream coat a small
hyacinth-blue hat.
Present were: Mrs. H. J. Buchanan
(wife of Rear-Admiral Buchanan), in
flecked stone-colored suit and small white
hat; Lady Snowden, who allied a light-
navy suit and a matching toque which
had a rhinestone studded mount; Mar-
garet Gelling, in deep-caramel frock and
black ballibuntal hat; Mrs. David Lind-
say, in embroidered grey taffetas;
Mrs. C. M. Guiney, whose flower-
trimmed hat was quite notable ; and Mrs.
J. B. Reed, in another striking hat —hers
massed with lily-of-the-valley, which
motif was repeated in the dress.
☆ ☆ ☆
“The Deep Blue Sea,” the Terence
Rattigan drama which opened at the
Royal on Friday night, has a special
appeal to women, for a woman’s poig-
nant problem is its mainspring. The
title has nothing to do with affairs nauti-
cal —it is one of the two things a clergy-
man’s daughter finds herself caught be-
tween (the other is the Devil) when, hav-
ing run away from a loveless marriage to
a distinguished jurist, she finds that the
former fighter-pilot she is now living
with is becoming less and less interested
in her. Even wan make-up and an un-
glamorous dressing-gown couldn’t detract
from the attractiveness of Googie Withers,
who in the leading role is on stage
throughout except for a few minutes.
☆ ☆ ☆
Glorious weather for Ladies’ Day
brought Randwick out in a positive rash
of spring hats, from the tiniest head-
huggers to the brolly-size cartwheels.
The large hats were mostly in fine straws,
with black and white predominating;
toques and cloches sported almost every
color in the spectrum. Frocks and light-
weight dressmaker-suits shared equal
favoritism, with pale-creams, string, deli-
cate pastels and off-white spotteds lead-
ing the color-range. The A- and H-lines
were thrust aside by waistlines anchored
where Nature intended them. Dior
trailed the field throughout the day, and
the bizarre was a non-starter.
Mrs. Tom Carlyon, of Melbourne, wore
one of the largest hats ; of fine straw,
it was black to match her frock of light-
weight wool. Mrs. Peter Muller was also
a devotee of the large black hat —hers of
faille to offset her black-collared cham-
pagne shantung suit. Googie Withers had
a large contrasting hat for her slim-
fitting frock of cream guipure-lace. Mrs.
Bill Adams’s dove-grey linen shantung
frock carried navy piping.
☆ ☆ ☆
Events coming up:
Tonight, Wednesday, October 12, at
the New Commodore, 85 Goulburn-
street, the Spring Ball, under the aegis of
the N.S.W. Liberal Party Youth Council.
Tickets from Paulette Hogan (8L3355)
or Miss H. Hunter (BL1401).
A Grand Fete and Baby Show on
Saturday next, October 15, at No. 6
Wentworth-street, Point Piper, to aid the
Ave Maria, Retreat House for Women
and Girls. It will be opened at 2 p.m. by
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. P. D. Hills.
Young Sydney pianist Romola Con-
stantino, who was State winner in this
year’s A.B.C. Concerto competition, has
been awarded the Italian Government
Scholarship for 1955-56. This will
enable her to take special courses for
performers at the Santa Cecilia Academy
in Rome. Pupil of Alexander Sverjensky,
Romola will give a farewell recital at the
Con. on October 28 under the auspices of
the Dante Alighieri Society.
There is hope for those who simply
can’t resist the temptation to eat bread.
Lillian Roxon, of Anthony Horderns’,
reports the formation of Fatties Anony-
mous, which will dispel the horrors of
the bread-addict. The firm’s restaurant
now has available a special slimmmg
luncheon which includes a Norwegian
flatbread that is satisfying, tasty, yet
calorie-free, and wheat-hearts which, with
tomato-juice and a vegetarian salad, pro-
vide the necessary vitamins. It seems
like the answer to the plumpies’ prayer.
9- # #
Last Saturday at the lovely Middle
Harbor home of Mrs. George Foote
about 60 guests attended a musical
evening in support of the Sydney Opera
Group, which has presented opera at
Avalon in the open air, at the Inde-
pendent Theatre and the Conservatorium.
Dorothy Odell sang a sequence of Eng-
lish, Scottish and Irish folksongs, with
commentary by her husband and with
George Humphrey accompanying and
John Stender giving violin solos. The
guests were a mingling of artists and
scientists among the former Hal
Missingham, Mervyn Horton and Eileen
Mayo; among the latter Prof. Rupert
Myers and Dr. Paul George. The fourth
such function at Mrs. Foote’s home is
due early next month.


Country Newspaper for Sale,
Queensland Coastal Area, includes Complete Plant
and Freehold. Could Finance on £3OOO.
Reply care BOX 569 J., G.P.0., BRISBANE
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND CAWLEY and to MAR-
GARET ELIZABETH THORNE.—TAKE
NOTICE that WALTER PERCIVAL
THORNE has filed a Petition lor Divorce
No. 116 of 1954 on the following gfounda
(1) That on the 4th December 1953 the
said MARGARET ELIZABETH THORNE
committed adultery with the said RAY-
MOND CAWLEY (2) That during three
years prior to the 9th January 1954 the.
said MARGARET ELIZABETH THORNE
has been an habitual drunkard and has
habitually during that period rendered
herself unfit to discharge her domestic
duties It is alleged that this last men-
tioned offence was condoned by the said
WALTER PERCIVAL THORNE but that
the said offence was revived by the
said MARGARET ELIZABETH THORNE
continuing habitual drunkenness and
habitual unfitness to discharge her
domestic duties within one month from
the date of condonation Jf either of you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 11th
November 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition free of charge from J. C.
RICKARD, SYMONDS & CO., Solicitors,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK CARTER formerly of Wollon-
gong. —TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE
ETHEL CARTER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 439 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Sydney by 28th December 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CURTISS, DEZARNAULDS
& BUTTFIELD, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Regis-
trar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN LESLIE PLANT.—TAKE
NOTICE that JESSIE MARGARET COR-
DELIA PLANT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3372 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 21st day of
December 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from E. G.
SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Joseph Krips
Genial and easygoing in
appearance, Viennese conductor
Joseph Krips is a firm dis-
ciplinarian of the concert-
platform. His impetuous ges-
tures are for the orchestra’s
benefit, never glamor-beats for
the audience, and if he directs
a concert without the score, he
can also rehearse without it.
Under him the Queensland Sym-
phony Orchestra gave well-
drilled performances, achieving
precision without forfeiting
spontaneity.
A subscription-concert began
with Brahms’s St. Anthony
Variations, notable for the song-
like phrasing of the quieter
moments rather than for the
touch of the heroic in the finale.
The most exciting playing of
the concert was reserved for the
first Tschaikowsky Piano Con-
certo, in which Ventsislav
Yankoff joined with the
orchestra in an urgent perform-
ance that drove brilliantly and
sometimes ruthlessly through the
meanderings of the first move-
ment, paused but restlessly in
the slow movement before
rounding-off the final movement
in a fashion that was dazzling
both musically and visually.
There may be other ways to play
this concerto, but none of them
makes the work sound as con-
tinually interesting as that of
the energetic Krips and Yankoff.
So much did Krips whip-up
the orchestra that the players
seemed a little too tired to put
all the necessary rhythmic
buoyancy into Beethoven’s
Seventh Symphony —it should
send an audience back into the
street light of heart and foot.
At a Youth concert a few
days later, the first half of the
programme was less demanding
on the orchestra’s stamina, and
Krips was able to drive them to
a more satisfying Beethoven per-
formance. This was a tightly-
reined Fifth Symphony, quite
free from tricks of over-
interpretation and, if one re-
members that in a Youth audi-
ence there must be many
listeners whose acquaintance
with the Fifth is only nodding,
the ideal way to play it.
Later, in Melbourne, Krips
wrote his name large in Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra
annals at the last and best
Youth concert of the season at
the Melbourne Town Hall. He
led his cohorts through the
intricacies of the score of
Mozart’s Jupiter Symphony with
superb precision, which, how-
ever, didn’t exclude any of the
nuances of the lovely cantabile
in the slow movement, and he
followed that with a spirited
performance of the Eroica
Symphony, of which the funeral
march is one of the noblest
things in all music.
The orchestra was keyed-up
from the beginning, which was
the “Der Freischutz” overture
of Weber, and the audience of
teenagers gave evidence that
they were keyed-up, too. Some
of the pianissimos were just one
degree this side of silence.
“The Barber of Seville”
All the stilettos which had
been working overtime during
the two months of the Italian
Opera Company’s season at
Sydney Empire were parked in
the wings for this one perform-
ance of Rossini’s opera buffa ;
nothing more lethal is used than
the imitation cut-throat razor
with which Figaro scrapes off
the shaving-soap he slaps in Dr.
Bartolo’s eye to stop that
tyrannical guardian seeing his
ward flirting with the phony
music-master.
Successful presentation of
this opera stands or falls by this
last act and depends largely for
its comedy on the characters of
Bartolo, the Barber himself, and
Basilio, the real music-master,
whose inconvenient appearance
threatens to wreck the course
of love.
Producer Bruno Nofri drew
upon some of the best singing
and acting talent in the com-
pany to fill the roles. Salvatore
Catania, following a fine per-
formance in “Faust,” was a
most impressive Basilio; Ferdi-
nand Li Donni was an ebulli--
ent, cheerful Barber ; and Afro
Poli admirably 'fussy as the
doddering Dr. Bartolo. Catania’s
singing of the “Slander Song”
and Li Donni’s treatment of
that joy and despair of the
world’s baritones, the famous
“Largo al Factotum,” were the
highlights of the opera.
The 21-year-old coloratura-
soprano Ginetta La Bianca,
making her bow in a top role on
a first night, was a charming
and vivacious Rosina. After an
uncertain vocal start she settled
down and sang extremely well,
especially in the difficult “Una
Voce Poco Fa.” The only
weakness was Augusto Pedroni;
a rather pale, insipid Count.
The orchestra under Maestro
Ziino skipped lightheartedly
through the sparkling Overture,
and elsewhere treated the score
—and the singers—with respect.
* ❖ <
Goossens and Friedlander
Ernst Friedlander, the Austrian
’cellist, was soloist with the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra under
Goossens at the Town Hall on
Saturday night. The Rococo
Variations he played can scarcely
be deemed of Tschaikowsky’s
best—the work has little thematic
strength, and the variations are
of only modest invention —but
so fine-drawn, warm and felici-
tous was the ’cellist’s tone that
it made pleasurable listening.
Sibelius’s Symphony No. 6,
shorter than the other eight, has
all the color and warmth of early
autumn, and Goossens lived up
to his reputation of doing
Sibelius uncommonly well. In
this mellow reading the upper
strings were at their best.
Apart from Vaughan Wil-
liams’s “The Wasps” Overture,
the rest of the programme was
given to music set in the Iberian
Peninsula. There were Goos-
sens’s suite “Don Juan de
Manara,” richly orchestrated and
with the accent on tone-color, at
the expense of melody and
rhythm, Manuel de Falla’s
“Three Cornered Hat” pieces, in
which the orchestra was at its
ebullient best; and Goossens’s
arrangement of Albeniz’s “Ron-
dena,” very skilfully contrived
and played with verve.
“Pro Musica” Concert
At Sydney University Pro
Musica Society’s annual summer
concert,'Lennox Berkeley, com-
poser of the sprightly little
opera “A Dinner Engagement,”
appeared in a hair-shirt in his
setting of “Four Poems by St.
Teresa of Avila” for contralto
(Hazel Reader) and strings, a
first Australian performance.
Berkeley is older than one
imagined ; 52 ; a pupil of Nadia
Boulanger’s, well-soaked in
Parisian music of between-wars ;
and the French clarity of these
settings admirably meets the
ferocious fervor of the superb
translations by Arthur Symons,
without, in the curious deadness
of its contemporary idiom, draw-
ing attention to itself as music.
Professor Peart, who con-
ducted throughout the evening,
balanced these four modern
settings with the Bach Cantata
No. 39, “Bring the Hungry Thy
Bread,” in which the arias and
recitatives for soprano (Norma
Steadman, who was in one aria
given a fine recorder-accompani-
“Boy! Will l be glad when the summer comes!"
ment by John Champ), contralto
(Hazel Reader) and bass
(Stewart Harvey) proceeded with
what Constant Lambert called
Bach’s “sewing-machine counter-
point” until the concluding
chorale, “Blessed they who
from compassion,” quietly and
beautifully sung by the choir,
reasserted the inspirational
quality of Bach’s genius.
Here was what one misses
from most of the music in the
contemporary mode, which, like
the Lennox Berkeley settings,
so brilliantly serves any purpose
but that of music itself. “Ah,”
say the experts, “wait until you
get used to the idiom.” But
what can one do except say with
Wyatt,
And as I find,
So will I trust
To which they have the obvious
reply, “Farewell, unjust!”
Vanessa Merry played an
oboe-concerto by Benedetto
Marcello (1686-1739) with the
strings more pleasantly than
forcefully ; and the performance
of Schubert’s No. 5 Symphony
in B Flat was no doubt intended
to show how it might have
sounded when done by the
informal gatherings at Schubert’s
home for which it was written.
♦> *
“Macbeth”
Despite a poor beginning, in
which Duncan looked more like
a Roman official in a “Punch”
cartoon than a Scottish king, and
Macbeth and Banquo, at their
first entry, like two puzzled
Public School boys, Canberra
Rep.’s performance of “Mac-
beth” came suddenly to life
when Macbeth was first tempted.
Then, for 30 minutes or so,
Ric Throssell rose to great
heights as Macbeth, with Robin
Ashwin an effective contrast as
the “normal” Banquo, his eyes
dewy with admiration for the
man possessed. And even
though Lady Macbeth’s clothes
were more suitable for a nun,
and her face belied the words
Shakspeare makes her speak, Joy
Warren managed to make her
contribution to the mounting
tension and the sense of doom.
In the second half, however,
the whole thing petered out.
There were a magnificent ghost-
scene from Banquo and a terri-
fying murderer from Terry
Juliff, but when the theme of
evil merged into the political
theme, the interest of the audi-
ence began to flag. Perhaps it
was because all the players —or
the producer—believed it was
possible to increase tension and
sustain interest by speeding-up.
Perhaps it was because of the
mediums both for the punish-
ment of Macbeth and the return
of political “health” were just
not equal to the task.
As Malcolm, Tony Dingle did
not lack dignity, but he lacked
conviction ; and though Macduff
had the face to express the horror
of the good when crossed by the
damned, and struggled hard to
revive the attention of the audi-
ence, by then the magic spell
which Throssell had created in
the first half had disappeared.
At the end one did not feel either
pity or terror at the dissolution
of a big man; only vaguely
embarrassed.
M. C.
Artbursts
Chinese Paintings
An unusual phenomenon in
Melbourne’s art world is the 72-
year-old Chinese artist Madame
Yee-Ping Shen Hsu, who is hang-
ing silk scrolls at the Peter Bray
Gallery. Because of a serious
eye-operation Madame Hsu was
compelled to adopt a free im-
pressionistic style in painting
Australian birds and flowers, but
they still conform to the cen-
turies-old tradition.
Technically speaking, Chinese
art came to a dead stop probably
somewhere about the beginning
of the Christian era. There is
no reason to believe that the
Chinese artists lacked observa-
tion or didn’t feel what European
artists like Titian or Rembrandt
felt when they looked at Nature.
It was their lack of a plastic
technique which kept their art
crystallised in a medium
relatively simple and uncomplex.
On its own level, however,
Madame Hsu’s art is quite
charming, though it is not quite
so charming where it shows evi-
dence of some bits of Western
training. The worst fate that
could befall her would be to get
caught up in modern fashions.
€► ❖ ♦!«
Tasmanian Artists
In the pearlshell-like interior
of the Tasmanian Government
Tourist Bureau, Melbourne, the
Art Society of Tasmania, which
is housed in a lovely old
historic mansion outside Hobart,
is hanging pictures by its
members.
Tasmania believes, not with-
out reason, that it is the world’s
loveliest island, richly endowed
by Nature and more richly by
man who, in the person of the
convicts, left behind him these
architectural relics which the
Apple Island is carefully pre-
serving. Its artists aren’t pulling
down art traditions, either, to
replace them with modern
fashions.
It is a gentle exhibition. The
modern idiom apparently hasn’t
leapt Bass Strait to acquaint the
Taswegians of the awful things
they have in their unconscious.
There is the familiar waterfront
of “Constitution Dock, Hobart,”
by J. L. Koskie, and anybody
who likes boats will get a thrill
from “Looking up the Der-
went,” by N. W. Enser.
In “Old Farm House, Ross,”
A. J. Grieve has a sombre
landscape with a strong light
falling on the centre of the pic-
ture, and in “Granite” Tasman
Fehlberg has given the move-
ment of the ocean along a
broken coastline.
Harry Buckie is topographical
rather than soulful in “Victoria
Dock, Hobart,” but at least you
know what he is describing, as
you do in J. Carington-Smith’s
“Low Tide at Simpson’s Bay,
Bruny Island,” and “Track to
Cloudy Bay, Bruny Island.”
Talkies
“The Gates of Hell” (Sydney
Paris): No foreign film since the
Swedish “One Summer of
Happiness” has dealt in such
sheer beauty as this Japanese
tragedy set in medieval times.
The ceremonial costumes, the
simple interior settings with
their filmy draperies and the
artistic use of flowers, the
beautiful landscapes and the
moon-drenched gardens —all are
admirably served by color as
good as any the Occident • has
so far produced. The dramatic
action is natural, and the sus-
pense of the impending tragedy
is built up with skill and
imagination. The emotions of
the three main characters are
projected with something more
than the supposed Oriental
restraint.
The story is a simple one —
that of a Samurai who covets
the devoted wife of another;
of the degradation of character
which his desire engenders ; and
of the Gilda-like sacrifice of the
wife to save her husband when
the crazed lover takes to the
sword. The pathos is quite
moving and the unusual denoue-
ment convincing.


DAWNIG OF DOUBT
by H.C. MORTON
50METIMES, Gilly’s big
brother, Nick, went to
town on Saturday morn-
ings. To prepare his con-
science for the trip he would
hammer an hour beforehand, at a
thin, brittle shaft of excuse, built
of a broken plough-part or a for-
gotten drum of tractor-kerosene,
until the shaft was forged sharp
enough to cut and release the
strings of duty.
We liked seeing Nick go to
town, Gilly and I. The trans-
formation of Nick leaving home,
a sketchy, inadequate conversa-
tionalist, into Nick returning an
hour or two later full of beer,
benevolence and reminiscence,
held for us an eternal fascination.
Nick looked good dressed up.
A man who can sit in the kit-
chen in singlet and shorts, and
still retain the elegant aura of
an Eden, always does.
Nick invariably brought the
mail home when he went to
town. He had a formula for
mail-bringing. If his father’s mail
was burdened with many bills,
Nick brought with him a bottle
of beer to soften their effect.
Thus, over the years, Gilly and I
made the price of many ice-
creams from empty-beer-bottle
barter.
YjyE were sitting in the stables
' * drying out a motor-cycle
generator, which had been
soaked by cruel misfortune in a
deep part of the creek, the day
a returning Nick stepped from
the truck with a wedge of letters
in his shirt-pocket and a bottle
of beer in each hand.
Gilly’s eyebrows raised.
“Look,” he squeaked. “Two
bottles! Quick, let’s go up to
the house, we’ve got to see this
for sure.”
We followed Nick to the
kitchen. The eyes of Gilly’s
father roamed from the bottles
in Nick’s hands, up his arm to
his shirt-pocket. He shuddered.
“Crack a bottle first,” he
moaned, “before I open any-
thing.”
Nick poured sympathetically.
Gilly’s father let his hand stray
to the first unopened bill Nick
flung on the table. His fingers
touched the envelope, then
recoiled in horror.
“Pour us another glass,” he
pleaded weakly. He drank in
silence, braced himself, and
tore open the envelope.
“A man’s only working for
garages and oil- and fertiliser-
companies,” he announced.
“They make a fortune from this
farm.”
We watched garage-proprietors
glance at the cheques of Gilly’s
father, as they walked to wait-
ing Cadillacs, and managing-
directors beam as they followed
the trend of .last month’s farm
bill for oil and fertiliser.
“When did we get three ton
of sulphate?”' Gilly’s father
flung at Nick.
“Last month,” Nick
announced.
Gilly’s father grunted. He had
an abiding suspicion of the
accuracy of double-entry book-
keeping. Deep within him burned
a t conviction that any errors in
bills always erred to overcharge.
His fingers tore open a fresh
envelope. He squinted at a
folded form.
“What’s this?” he demanded.
Nick looked across.
“It’s either the truck-
registration, a piece of Japanese
invasion-currency, or your rate-
notice,” he said amiably.
Gilly’s father adjusted his
spectacles and peered intently at
the form.
“The rotten, robbing, Social-
istic bureaucrats!” he bellowed.
Nick cocked his head. “It must
have been the rate-notice, all
right,” he decided.
Gilly’s father leapt to his feet
and paced up and down the kit-
chen. “It’s a plot,” he an-
nounced. “This bloody Queens-
land Government’s been at it for
years. They’re trying to reduce
us to a race of peasants, that’s
what they’re trying to do. They’re
going to starve us out—-you see.”
Gilly and I felt the sharp tug
of hunger-pains, Gilly’s father
went on unabated.
“All they want is a race of
peasants with a mob of civil
servants bossing them. Talk
about Commos —they got noth-
ing on these blokes. The damn’
Government’s always been
against the man on the land.”
We cowered against an
advancing horde of civil servants
intent on turning uS to slaves.
“But,” Nick put in, “it’s not
the Government that sends you
a rate-notice —it’s the council.”
Gilly’s father flung his arms
high. “Council, Government;
what’s the difference? They can
get away with anything. If any-
one else tried to rob a man like
this, they’d toss them in clink.”
We saw an anonymous robber
frog-marched to jail while Gov-
ernment hordes plundered
unchecked.
Nick picked up the rate-notice.
“It says something on the
bottom here about appealing
against the valuation.”
Gilly’s father grabbed the
notice eagerly, and scanned it
anew. “I’ll do it,” he
announced. “I’ll go in there
and tell them all about this farm.
I’ll show them their valu-
ation’s too high. Fancy them
saying it’s worth so much.”
He walked to a window. “Look
out there !” he invited. “Just
look at the color of that ground.
How do you expect white clay
like that to grow cane? Ten-
bob an acre that’s worth; not a
penny more. And look at all
those gullies running through
the farm. Every one of them’s
taking a thousand-pound off the
value. Think of all the erosion.
A man must lose tons of top-
soil every wet season with them.
The whole farm will go one of
these days.”
Gilly and _ I watched farm
and houses slowly slide away
into liquid obscurity.
“That’s what I’ll tell them,”
Gilly’s father announced. “You
see if I don’t.”
IT was then that the man came
to sell us the radiogram.
Altogether it was a wonderful
day. Gilly’s father, inspired by
a two-beer-bottle sheaf of bills,
was rare and wonderful enter-
tainment ; Gilly’s father combin-
ing bill-ranting with salesman-
baiting was magnificent. For
Gilly’s father clung to the old-
fashioned belief that a salesman
should sell.
We watched the man step
from a blood-red utility. He
stood on the headland adjusting
his smile. He had large, very
white teeth. There is a man in
contemporary radio-programmes
given to running his tongue
along his teeth who would have
gone into ecstasies at the sight
of this salesman.
We watched the man walk to
the door. Then we sat down as
audience.
“Good-morning,” smirked the
man. “My name’s Hogan. I’m
from Mata Hari Radio Shop.”
Gilly’s father sniffed.
“Sounds like an advertisement
for hair-tonic,” he decided.
Hogan made further adjust-
ments to his smile.
“Mr. O’Shaunnesy said you
might be interested in buying a
radiogram,” he advised.
Gilly and I settled back, sens-
ing a calculation by O’Shaun-
nesy. He, too, was hard on
salesmen, and a believer in the
genius of Gilly’s father.
“Is that so?” said Gilly’s
father.
Hogan’s smile slipped. “I
have some information about
our five-valve Inca-Gram,” he
tried. “Now this ’gram has
world-range and”
“Can it pick up Iceland?”
Gilly’s father interrupted.
“Well, not exactly,” Hogan
admitted.
“Ha!” said Gilly’s father.
“Thought you said it had world
range?”
“Up to a point,” declared
Hogan.
“Up to a point’s no good,”
protested Gilly’s father. “I
always believe a man should get
his facts and opinions sorted out,
and stick to them. One thing I
can’t stand is chopping and
changing.”
“Well,” said Hogan, sensing
defeat, “I just wondered if you
were interested in a ’gram, that’s
all.”
Gilly’s father scratched his
head. “I wouldn’t mind one,”
he admitted.
Hogan’s eyes showed a new
interest.
“But,” said Gilly’s father, and
Hogan’s face fell at the tone, “I
always hate planning buying
anything new. It’s the bloody
Government,” he explained.
“They’re at me all the time.
Even when I was a kid, knee-
high to a cane-knife, they
wouldn’t leave me alone. My
old man promised me a push-
bike, and what does the Govern-
ment do? Sends home all the
kanakas and we lose money
chasing cane-cutters and I get no
pushbike.”
We watched his mind search-
ing for further evidence of‘offi-
cial inconsideration. “Same when
I got the new ute,” he remem-
bered. “Just getting used to it;
then the war gets bad. Along
comes the Government and takes
it off me and plonks a C.C.C.
foreman in it. Carted beer in it
all the war. Beer, mind you,
while I’m lumping me beef home
on a pushbike, with me own
boy”
Here he cast a look of pride on
Nick. “ with me own boy
over there fighting thousands of
German soldiers for his
country.”
Gilly and I glowed at the
vision of column after column
of Afrika Korps, fleeing before
the lone, advancing figure of a
tight-lipped, iron-jawed Nick.
Nick immediately spoilt the
effect by roaring with laughter.
“What’s so flamin’ funny?”
demanded Gilly’s father.
Nick lapsed into silence.
“You see how it is, Mr. Hogan,
a man doesn’t know what to do.
If the Government would only
leave me alone I’d buy one of
your radiograms, but like it is
I’m not game.” He shook his
head mournfully. /
“There’s seven or eight million
other Australians,” he went on.
“Why’s the bloody Government
got to pick on me all the time?”
Gilly and I bristled at the
unfairness.
Hogan rose to his feet. “Well,
perhaps you’d like me to call
back some other time, when
things are not so bad,” he said.
He paused at the gate. “There’s
just one thing,” he said
earnestly. “If you’re going to
buy a ’gram, you can’t go past
an Inca, there’s not another
make on the market anywhere
near its class.”
/'MLLY’S father spent a lot of
time over the valuation-
appeal.
His rehearsals took many
forms. Sometimes we watched
him drive the tractor, sitting
with corrugated brow and mov-
ing lips, framing inspired sen-
tences. At times he posed before
the wardrobe-mirror perfecting
a variety of appealing gestures,
and developing a lean and
hungry look.
In deference to his expected
audience he attempted to culti-
vate a servile approach, but the
individuality bred from almost
forty years of cane-growing
frustrated his endeavors. We
were glad when the day of rate-
appeal arrived. We had grown
miserable on a diet of words of
protest. Gilly’s father left for
town, his face clouded with
pessimism, but returned radiat-
ing hope.
“You know,” he said, “the
old fellow who heard the a’ppeal’s
not a bad old codger—reckon
he must have been reared on a
farm himself. He gave me a
good hearing—not like some of
the beggars you hear about. He
told me he’d see what he could
do. Reckoned they’d write and
let me know their conclusions in
a few weeks. He was very
decent about everything. Real
nice old codger.”
The weeks crept by as we
waited for the reply from the
nice old codger. Nick brought
it home with the mail. Gilly’s
father tore the letter open
eagerly. “Oh, the swines!” he
bellowed. “The deceiving
swines.” He flung the letter to
the floor.
“What can you expect from
a damned public servant?” he
roared. “A man couldn’t expect
any understanding from them.”
“But I thought you said he
was a nice old man,” Gilly’s
mother put in.
“Don’t nag me, woman,”
Gilly’s father yelled.
We sat shocked at the treach-
ery of the nice old man, while
another letter from the pile on
the table was opened.
Gilly’s father read it through,
laid it carefully on the table, and
cradled his head in his hand.
Nick glanced at him worriedly.
“What is it?” he asked.
“It’s the finish —the end of the
line. It’s an account for worker’s-
compensation. Just look at it.
A man pays hundreds of quids
to the bloody Government for
insurance for every Tom, Dick
and Harry that even spits on
the farm as he rides past, while
me own boy”—here he flung a
compassionate look at Nick
“while me own boy could lay in
hospital for months with two
broken legs and never collect a
penny compensation.”
Gilly and I sat overwhelmed
with sadness at the sight of( a
bent and broken Nick. Gilly’s
father leapt to his feet.
“I’m through,” he moaned.
“The bloody Government’s won
at last. I’m sick of fighting
Socialism — they can have the
farm.”
He flung an arm sideways.
“I’m selling out. I’ve made up
my mind. This is the finish. A
man can stand no more. . .”
i
GILLY and I sat in the
stables under a great cloud
of sadness.
“I wonder where you’ll go
after you sell out,” I asked.
Gilly shook his head. “Don’t
know. The old man reckons
he’s going to get a job working
on the council. He says he’s
been paying money for years to
make a Welfare State, now he’s
going to get some good out of
it.”
“Maybe you won’t go too far
away.”
Gilly shook his head again.
“Don’t know about that, either.
The old man reckons you got to
get out of Queensland — he
doesn’t like the Queensland
Government much.”
I caught a glimpse of Gilly’s
family setting out on a southern
pilgrimage. I gazed forward
into a future barren of hope,
filled with a terrible, aching void
of loneliness.
“When are the new buyers
coming out to look at the farm?”
I asked.
Gilly screwed up his face.
“After dinner,” he murmured
dolefully.
Actually we hadn’t quite
finished the meal when they
arrived.
“Come in,” boomed Nick.
Nick had been strangely cheer-
ful in the circumstances. The
two men walked in, accepted a
cup of tea, and immediately
began a discourse with Gilly’s
father concerning the infamies
of cane-cutters. An hour later
they reluctantly tore themselves
away from the universal appeal
of the subject to discuss their
prospective investment.
“She’s a good farm,” Gilly’s
father began. One of the men
gazed out of the window.
“She looks a bit clayey,” he
declared.
Gilly’s father looked horrified.
“Oh, no,” he explained. “That's
just a splash of color —though,”
he admitted magnanimously,
“there is a bit of clay here and
there. But it’s not that hungry
clay that’ll grow nothing; it’s
got plenty of body in it, this clay.
Plenty of body.”
“Seems to be a few gullies
running through her,” one of the
men decided.
“That’s just what you want,”
(Continued on page 30)


Australian Paper
Manufacturers Ltd.
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE: Aikman Street, South Melbourne, Victoria
Mills at Melbourne, Broadford, Fairfield, Maryvale (Victoria), Botany (N.S.W.) and Petrie (Q’ld.) under construction
EXTRACTS FROM THE ADDRESS OF THE CHAIRMAN
(MR. E. TELFORD SIMPSON)
TO STOCKHOLDERS AT THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
ON MONDAY, 26TH SEPTEMBER, 1955
THE YEAR’S HIGHLIGHTS
Sales . • • Highest yet achieved at 188,358 tons of papers
and boards, being 11 % better than last year.
Papers and Boards Highest yet at 196,008
tons.Woodpulp. A record output of 73,245
tons.
<£1,683,089 An increase of 15% over last
year which had been highest recorded. Profit as
return on stockholders’ funds of £20,495,855
was 8.2%.
Average selling price of papers and boards
£lO5 per ton as compared with £llO for the
previous year. Increases in costs offset by
improved efficiency and greater production.
Several major items of new plant brought into
operation. A new paper machine at Maryvale,
Victoria, scheduled for operation in January,
1956.
Splendid co-operation at all levels. Further
progress with work study and bonus schemes.
Collaboration with customers in developing
new markets. Policy of concentrating on pro-
duction and sale of products and not entering
into conversion is proving fully successful.
Continued research achievements.
Successful forest activities.
Production ......
Profit
Selling Prices
Construction
Employees
General Progress . .


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
The GHOST IN THE
HOUSE
By
margaret
Clarke
I'T’N HEN my landlady leaned
forward anxiously and
YY said: “Perhaps you are
a natural medium,” my
blood was chilled.
It is true that one side of my
family is Irish and that in some
respects I take after the Irish
ones. But I was brought-up by
my English grandmother and
have never cultivated Celtic
feyness. On the contrary, I
usually shy-off anything to do
with superstition.
Put yourself in my place. I
had rented half-a-house in one
of Sydney’s prettier suburbs.
The house was furnished in a
cultivated and tasteful way,
with brocades and period-pieces.
You can imagine the atmos-
phere. I moved in and un-
packed, feeling pleased with
myself, thinking my housing-
problems were over at last.
The only misgiving I had was
about my landlady. She had an
intense, nervous way about her.
Her eyes were large and dark
and hypnotic. And she talked
a lot about her brother who,
apparently, had recently died
and whom she missed sorely. I
assumed that she was letting
half the house to have someone
around.
Her brother was seldom out
of the conversation. She kept
on mentioning articles of furni-
ture she had bought for him.
The Persian-design wall-to-wall
carpet, for instance, which
looked newly laid, she had
chosen “to please a man’s
taste”; the Jacobean suite in the
sitting-room she offered me was
“the sort of thing for a man to
relax in, don’t you think?”
This kind of talk, the day I
came to look over the place,
struck me as being a bit morbid,
but it didn’t occur to me that
there might be anything un-
natural about it. I only hoped
that she would soon accept her
bereavement and stop talking
about her brother.
The strange events I want to
describe to you happened the
first night I spent there. I had
gone to bed early, about eight-
o’clock, because I had to get
up at four the next morning.
At the time I was working in
the radio-newsroom of a daily-
paper and we all took turns in
preparing the 7.45 a.m. news-
bulletin.
I settled cosily into my
Queen Anne-style bed, cedar,
with little bandy legs and rose-
pink blankets. Thinking how
charming the house was, I fell
asleep.
thing I remember I
was wide-awake and rigid
with fright. I could feel the
hair rising on my scalp and my
skin contracting with goose-
flesh. The room felt chilly.
There was no light by the
bed, so I hopped out and over
to the door, where a cord
dangled. I simply thought then
that I had had rather a bad
nightmare, and would feel
normal again as soon as the
light was on. But I did not; I
was enveloped in cold, clammy
fright, standing right in the
middle of something horrid.
Puzzled and perturbed, I
retreated backwards to my bed,
got in and pulled the clothes up
around me, but keeping an eye
on the corner of the room by
the door.
I could feel something staring
at me, some kind of invisible
presence. I sat up in bed
perplexed and annoyed, not at
this stage seriously frightened.
However, I could not think of
getting up and turning out the
light and settling down to sleep.
One could not sit up in bed
all night watching the corner
of the room. Resolutely I
sprang out, streaked through the
door ugh! —and down the
passage to find Miss X.
She was sitting up in bed
reading. Previously she had
told me that since the death of
her brother she had slept badly.
Her bed was opposite the door
and I did not go into the room,
but stood on the threshold.
I felt a fool standing there in
my nightgown saying apologeti-
cally, “Has anything odd ever
happened in this house? I mean,
well —oh, I know it sounds
idiotic, but my room” I
broke off, embarrassed by the
fantastic implications of what I
was trying to convey.
How comforting it would
have been if only Miss X had
given a gay laugh and said in a
natural tone of voice: “My
poor child, you must have had
a bad dream. Do pull yourself
together and go back to bed.”
That was what I had hoped
for ; but no. The expression on
her face changed to one of
intense interest. She leaned
forward as if agitated and said:
“What sort of thing? What
did you see?”
Now I was really frightened.
Instinctively I felt that my best
defence was to make light of
what I had said, brush it aside.
I grasped the lintel of the door
for support and tried to say
casually: “Oh, it’s nothing. A
nightmare, I suppose. I don’t
w.ant to worry you.”
I left her and stood in the
passage between her room and
mine trying to bring the situa-
tion into focus. What should I
do? My heart pounded, and
horrifying speculations began to
race through my head. Was
she a criminal? A homicidal-
maniac who murdered her
tenants after nearly frightening
them to death? A psychopath
with some kind of morbid
urge to satisfy? Or was her
brother not dead at all, but a
lunatic who prowled around the
house after people had gone to
bed? Could the house be
haunted?
To tell you the truth that was
my real fear ; the thing . that
had awakened me was some-
thing incorporeal, something
able to see and not be seen, to
enter and leave the room like a
breath of wind.
I could scarcely prevent
myself from screaming at the
top of my voice and racing into
the street. But supposing I did,
where should I go? You can’t
rush into a strange neighbor in
your nightgown and beg refuge
from a haunted house. I heard
myself give a faiht cackle of
laughter.
I must pull myself together.
If I got hysterical I should be
in her power, and what would
happen then? No, I should
have to spend the night pretend-
ing there wasn’t anything
wrong.
I looked at the telephone in
the hall. Could I call a
taxi without her knowing?
Obviously not. It was a long,
dark walk to the tram.
I paused in my doorway,
goosefleshy at the prospect of
walking through that cold,
clammy thing again. But the
thing had gone, from the door-
way, anyhow. Gingerly I
moved into the room in case it
was eyeing me from some other
corner.
The room seemed free from
any presence and the air had
warmed again. I got into bed,
lay down and pulled the sheet
over my face. With an early-
morning rising ahead I must try
to get some sleep.
Outside the window on to the
sunroom a man coughed, a hard,
dry sick man’s cough.
MY ears rebelled. I sat
bolt-upright in bed, and
waves of terror rippled through
me.
It simply was not possible to
get out of bed and look through
the window; I had not the
strength. I knew I should see,
or sense, something terrifying,
something unnatural, something
that should not be there.
Footsteps pattered down the
passage. Nervelessly I sank into
my pillow and hid my face and
waited . . .
The voice I heard was a
human voice, belonging to
Miss X. I turned round and
smiled foolishly.
She said, “Are you all right?”
Her tone was full of solicitude
and her expression anxious.
She came in and sat down by the
fireplace in an armchair.
My scalp was prickling, but I
said crossly, “Of course, why
wouldn’t I be all right?”
What did she expect? To
find I had died of fright?
“I thought you might be ill ”
she said mildly. “Do you often
suffer like this?”
“No, I don’t,” I said, sitting
up and facing her. I had no
intention of letting her hypnotise
me into admitting I might be
neurotic; then I should be
truly in her power. “And I’m
not ill. I have never felt better
in my life.”
“Mm,” she mused, looking
around her. Then, veering-off
on a different tack, she
murmured, rather as if talking
to herself and reminiscing: “I
do hope this room isn’t going
to get yon down.”
“I can’t imagine why it
should,” I said with feigned
irritability, ignoring the horrid
implications of her fervidly-
expressed wish, “though the
wallpaper is a bit oppressive—
for my taste.”
Rich gold roses embossed on
a thick cream ground. Expen-
sive, luxurious, suitable only for
a reception-room in a palace.
While I was talking I could
hear feet padding over the
sunroom-floor. The boards
were creaking in regular succes-
sion as if someone fairly heavily-
built was crossing them in
slippers. Then I heard a sigh
and the creak of cane being
settled into.
“My brother,” said Miss X,
“he liked those roses.”
My hands were sweating, and
I grasped the sheet. In the
mirror opposite, at the end of
my bed, I could see my face.
It looked pale and drawn.
Miss X kept on talking. Now
she was asking me questions,
directed towards finding out
exactly what had frightened me
and my attitude towards the
supernatural. It was now that
she suggested that I might be
a natural medium.
How could I be sure I was
not? The possibility appalled
me. Aloud I strongly denied it.
“Are you interested in
spiritualism?” she said, insistent
on her theme.
• “Not in the least.” I tried to
yawn and sound bored, but in
fact was on the edge of panic.
Her questions in a haunted
house in the middle of the night
were more than anyone could
be expected to bear.
The day I had come to see
over the house she had wanted
to know was I a Catholic.
When I said “no,” she seemed
relieved, but immediately said
she was one herself. At the
time this had seemed odd. Now
I was beginning to understand.
I wished then that I had with
me —a crucifix, a statuette, some-
thing. I was sure that then I
could have made her afraid and
in my power. As it was, the
battle between the two of us
continued.
I believe that she would have
liked me to have confessed to a
leaning towards spiritualism. If
I had allowed that I might he
a natural medium she would
have had me get to work there
and then.
She got up and came over to
the end of the bed and looked
intently at me.
“You’re very sensitive,” she
said at length. Then looked
towards the sunroom, and
around and about. “I didn’t
think anyone knew about this
except me.”
About what? If only I could
have known exactly what, found
it out without asking her any
questions.
The thing on the sunporch
coughed again. I looked at her
to see if she betrayed any
knowledge. She seemed
abstracted, as if she had
forgotten me. That was dis-
concerting. I exercised my
willpower hard, telling the
thing to go away, and thought
about crucifixes and suchlike.
TN a moment or two the atmos-
phere became normal and the
tension relaxed. Miss X said
in an everyday voice: “I think
we might have a cup of tea;
you stay in bed and I shall' go
and put on the kettle.”
The sound of cups rattling in
the kitchen and presently the
liiss of the kettle was comfort-
ing, like the light of a cottage
suddenly appearing before a
traveller through a stormy night.
The next half-hour passed con-
versationally in a pleasantly-
lighted, cosy bed-room, where
two people drank tea and talked
about books and films and such-
like. I felt refreshed and ready
to settle-down.
She took away the tea-things,
and I was just dozing-off when
she returned with a bedside-
light. “You’d better have this,”
she said, “you’ll never get any
sleep with that light streaming
on your face.” She plugged the
light into the wall.
No suggestion that I should
sleep in the dark! I remembered
that she had been concerned
because I hadn’t brought a
bedside-lamp with me; said the
one belonging to the room was
broken, but that she would get
me another.
At the time I thought how
kind she was ; now I realised
that she had known all along
that I might not be able to
stand the room without one. I
looked at her aghast.
She did not say anything, but
went away, closing the door
behind her.
I tried to remain lying-down
and to sleep, but I could not
because the Thing had come
. back into the room. I had to
sit up and contend with it.
How, you might ask. Simply
by concentrating on keeping it
away from me. I wished I
knew some spells or had had
some kind of training in
dealing with psychic pheno-
mena. As it was I could only
keep my eyes on the corner of
the room and wall. I found it
exhausting, almost intolerably
so. I know now what soldiers
go through when they are on
sentry-duty at night.
The door on to the passage
glided open noiselessly. Dis-
traught with weariness and fear
I watched it, morbidly anxious
for the Thing to do its worst and
do it quickly. I was almost at
the end of my resources.
It was Miss X who appeared.
She was carrying a glass of
water in one hand and three
large tablets in the other.
Tablets the size of half-crowns;
I had never seen anything like
them.
“She’s going to poison me, ’ I
thought, and gave a faint giggle.
“It’s only bromide,” she
reproved, as if reading my
thoughts. “It will calm your
nerves.” She held out a tablet
so that I could inspect it.
I licked my finger, touched
the tablet and licked my finger
(I Continued on page 24)
FISHERMEN, WINTER
In the bay across the broken threshold sand
beyond the turning of the bird-walked beach,
deserted as a room though birds and jetsam and
flotsam are always there—each belonging to each:
all morning they have sat there silent and alone
in a dinghy rocking on the sea like a gull,
while the mad beach birds for hours flown
and knocked by the light that cuts like a stone
walk on the wheeling water, treack the broken glass
of the air ...
And light congeals on faces, a wing or a hand . . .
In the tides of shadows the slow nets drag
where the bells of , the sea ring into the land.
From the land ... the dinghy rocking gently as a gull
they work and drag their net's as patient as the sea,
who gather what it offers: fish, crab and shell;
letting slip the shadows, the light of wings, the sea.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


m
H
Put yourself in this
Track operators
ishoes!
The smart truck operator has the right truck
for the right job! He doesn’t use a sledge hammer
to crack walnuts, and he doesn’t send a 30 cwt.
truck when a 12 cwt. will do the job faster, more
economically.
Many fleet owners find new operating economies
never before thought possible in the big line-up
of International Trucks.
International lightweight line-up gives you lower
first cost, lower fuel costs, low all-round operating
YT
AR-112, 127" w.b., with drop side body. Featuring
low-loading for easy transfer of goods; long semi-
elliptic springs for heavy loads smooth-riding,
proven duo-servo brakes for positive safety.
costs on a wide range of operations in city and
country hauling.
Every truck in the famous International family
has all the heavy-duty engineered features and
long life performance that sets International ahead
of every other make. Compare each model for
value, feature by feature then you must buy
International.
See the ‘all truck’ lightweights by International at
your local IH dealer today and put yourself
in the smart operator’s shoes.
! I
AR-110 Utility, with 115" w.b., 12 cwt. capacity.
Features include 100 max. H.P. engine for heavy
loads, three speed transmission for more usable
power, new wide angle windscreen for all-round
vision, and natural angle steering ensures comfort,
lessens fatigue.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
District sales offices all Capital cities.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
T our de Force
by Bernard Haris
«ir-NHAT’S this?” asked
\\ I Red as we stood
yy idly about waiting to
embark.
“This” was a callow youth
with waving hair, deep dimples
and downy, pink-cheeked face,
who came stumbling towards us
under a mass of gear bulky
enough for a battle-wagon.
“I’m Donald Talbot,” he said
as if in answer to Red’s ques-
tion. “I just arrived from Bris-
bane and they said at the office
I was to go with you.”
His voice was of the kind
most fitted to discuss concertos,
checkers and exquisite views,
with a tone in it which might
have resulted from enlarged
tonsils or from an ingrained
belief in the propriety of affec-
tation, the voice of a working-
man’s son reared to everything
his mother had missed.
“Hop in, then, mate,” said
Red, and we somehow managed
to find room in the aircraft for
Donald’s wardrobe. Then
Donald stood with us, goggling
at the mighty juggernauts of
war which comprised our initial
flying-equipment, ten miserable
vehicles mournfully squatting
in various stages of readiness
for take-off about the be-
draggled Cairns drome.
“This is my first posting to a
flying-unit,” said Donald. “I
was thrilled when I learned I
was to make this tour overseas.”
He politely wandered away a
bit to get to closer quarters with
the decrepit, mouldy-looking
aircraft, leaving me to philoso-
phise on starry-eyed youth
plunged from the sheltered
obscurity of some superior home
into the wide, wild world.
“I hope his nurse turns up in
time,” said Red hopefully.
Although most of our main-
tenance-gear had gone by sea
with the bulk of our men, the
fitters flying with us finally
brought their servicing to a
successful conclusion, except
with one old crate, which re-
sponded neither to coaxing nor
command and was to be left
for further attention. Then Red
and Donald and I installed our-
selves in our vehicle, which,
after a shaky start, warmed-up
successfully and taxied to the
end of the runway, where, after
a lot of fiddling and muttered
words, Red pulled her aside and
waved the others through.
“Dropping revs.,” said Red,
and Donald looked as if he
wanted to run back and pick
them up. We sat there miser-
ably watching the grand armada
of eight struggle off the runway
and climb away northward for
its dash towards Higgins Field
at the tip of Cape York Pen-
insula and thence for points
unknown; then we taxied back
for further treatment.
Though Donald was obvi-
ously disappointed he took the
matter philosophically enough;
but he was hard to entertain,
for he did not drink or smoke,
and showed no disposition to
bludge ; however, while Red and
I played poker, he settled down
to write a long letter home.
Red went out of his way to be
kind to him, for, noticing that
he winced at the slightest
“darn,” Red conversed in
nothing but the King’s English.
TUST after dark some bright
J erk finally picked up our
revs., and out we all went again,
and settled ourselves in the air-
craft, which presently taxied to
the northern end of the flare-
path and at length roared into
its take-off run. We had not
been long airborne when the
i
aircraft gave a sudden, lurching
roll, and for a moment 1 thought
she was going in on her back ;
but she as quickly regained
stability and fairly leaped as
Red put her through the gate.
Red made some very queer
sounds into his throat-mike
before his voice became
intelligible.
“The bloody artificial hori-
zon,” he said. “We’ve been
going round like a bloody stick
on a string and just missed
dropping in on the duty-pilot.
I’m going back in.”
“Where’s Donald?” I asked.
Donald had been sitting below
Red, but now the seat was
empty.
“Fell out, I suppose,” said
Red.
When I moved to look, there
was Donald lying still and
crumpled-up among the baggage
in the nose. He looked dead,
but when I had sorted him out a
bit I found he was breathing all
right.
So back we went to the
Cairns drome, where we wanted
Donald to see an M. 0.; but he
quietly insisted that he was all
right; and, except for a black-
eye which promised to close
right up, he looked well
enough.
The fault quickly rectified,
we took off again and climbed
steadily northward to 4000 ft.;
and I‘was just starting to get
pleasantly homesick, drowsing
in nostalgia even for Cairns, the
last town we would know for
perhaps 12 months, remember-
ing through a retrospective mist
of beauty and charm the dirty
backwaters to the south of the
town where Asiatics of uncer-
tain origin existed in tiny houses
on stilts, the backyards of which
were sparkling pools at high-
tide and foul mud patches at
low, the old Chinamen selling
peanuts—when Red came up to
say that his bloody oil-pressure
was on the nose; and then we
turned round again and shortly
found ourselves once more on
the Cairns drome.
“We’re stuck in this place for
the bloody duration,” said Red ;
and I suggested a run into the
town. We did not know what
else to do about Donald, so we
took him with us. >
The town was a hive of
activity with crowds of 7th Div.
troops from Atherton Table-
land and British marines from
ships in the harbor wandering
aimlessly about.
Red wanted to dance, and we
had just climbed the stairs and
poked our noses into a dance-
hall when a marine trod on a
soldier’s partner’s toe and it was
on. The blue quickly over-
flowed from the hall in a thin
stream down the stairs and then
surged in a great wave up and
down the main street and round
the town —England versus Aus-
tralia —and civilians out of the
ring.
Somehow we lost Donald,
and when we found him in the
street he was in the middle of
it, getting it from all sides.
Evidently both soldiers and
marines had thought, “He’s not
in our jersey and he’s got the
marks, so he’ll do.” When we
got him clear he was intact, but
only just.
“If we don’t keep an eye on
this bloke,” said Red, “we’ll
never get him there.”
■OUT when we finally shook
the dust of Cairns from our
undercart next morning, Donald
was as blithe as a lark, two
black eyes and sundry lacera-
tions and all. He was in a pro-
longed frenzy of articulate
ecstasy as we passed at three-
thousand feet along the Great
Barrier Reef; he glued his eyes
to the magnificent hues of each
wondrous spot as if he would
never tear them away.
This first leg was otherwise
uneventful, though at lunch at
Higgins Field I had a premoni-
tion of disasters to come when
there was one fly in the unit’s
soup and Donald got it.
When we took off from
Higgins after lunch Donald,
convinced that we were now
launching into the tiger-
country, had ready to his hand
his entire tropical equipment
which he had heroically received
at Brisbane —webbing, water-
bottle, haversack, gas-mask,
jungle-knife, rifle, bayonet and
ammunition and, apparently for
health reasons, ground-sheet and
mosquito-net.
But, as I watched him happily
scanning the heavens for a sight
of a Zeke or a Betty or a Dinah
or of anything else made in
Japan, and for the first time
noticed the length to his chin
and the cut to his jaw and the
steadfastness about his eyes, I
began to realise something of
what Red meant by “keeping an
eye on this bloke.”
Donald may have been
trained in some peaceful head-
quarters orderly-room; maybe
he liked nothing better than to
listen to classical music and to
attend soireesperhaps he even
longed to organise circles of
culture; but, now that he was
leaving civilisation behind, the
barriers were coming down, he
was reverting to the cave,
happily contemplating tearing
someone to bits, feverishly will-
ing mortal combat in which he
would wield his official pen like
some modern Excalibur, visualis-
ing himself as the means of
bringing the enemy to his knees
with furious jottings in triplicate
on orderly-room paper; and to
while away the time he was
o Continued on next page )


The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
again: the cold, metallic taste
of bromide.
She held out two tablets —an
awful lot of bromide, but I took
them obediently, though it was
one-o’clock, and in three hours
I should have to get up. At the
time the only thing that
mattered was relief from fear.
I believe I would have taken
arsenic had she offered it.
I remember dropping-off to
sleep, thinking how silly I had
been to allow myself to be
“Mind you, I think these new import-restrictions will cause
a buttoning-up in this game”
frightened by an intense and
overwrought woman. Sleep
. . . sleep, and though the light
was still burning, I slept.
SUDDENLY I was wide
awake and sitting up in bed,
my eyes starting out of my
head. The curtains over the
sunroom-window were rising
into the room and a vague
outline of something was
coming in behind them. The
air was cold. In front of the
mirror on the dressing-table
opposite me the petals of some
flowers in a vase were curling
up as if a lethal wind was
passing across them. I think I
must have fainted, because I
don’t remember anything more
until the alarm-clock tinkled
in my ear.
Stupefied by lack of sleep and
the bromide I had taken, I
stumbled out of bed and across
the sunroom to the bathroom.
Some reflex - mechanism was
working to get me to the office
on time.
I was cleaning my teeth when
something compelled me to
look towards the door. I
suppose I was too bemused to
feel afraid because I simply
stood and looked at him. Now
he was not menacing, but looked
at me imploringly, sadly. I
noticed his likeness to his sister,
and I noticed the design of
his dressing - gown. Then he
vanished.
The reflex - mechanism and
sheer sense of responsibility got
me to the office and through my
script. As soon as the news-
reader arrived I went into the
reporters’ - room and rang
Dr. Y, whom I knew well, and
whom Miss X happened to
have mentioned as having
attended her brother in his last
illness.
I hoped that Dr. Y would
assure me that Miss X and her
brother were an agreeable pair,
and that he did not know of
anything unusual about them.
Instead he said sharply, “That
house! You can’t stay there!”
I told him my story, and
every comment he made con-
firmed the truth of my experi-
ence. Yes, the brother had had
a hard, dry cough ; he had spent
many hours on a couch in the
sunroom; his dressing - gown
was such-and-such. This sober
corroboration of all I had seen
and sensed was more disturbing
than the events of the night
itself. Then he said, “Odd that
I should remember a patient so
clearly after so many years.”
“So many years'.” I said.
“But surely!” The carpet,
the wallpaper, the lounge-suite —-
none of those were years old.
My brain reeled.
“Before the war,” Dr. Y said
with certainty. “Wait a second
and I shall tell you exactly.”
I could feel my ear sweating
against the telephone. “Novem-
ber, 1937,” Dr. Y said presently,
“longer ago than I thought.”
“Nineteen - thirty - seven! ” I
gasped. “Then she must be
mad. Furnishing a house for
a dead man!”
“Not mad, so much as evil.”
Dr. Y’s voice was sober. “You
mark my words, where you find
a spirit haunting a house it is
an evil spirit, or there is evil at
work. Come over and dine
with us and I’ll give you an idea
of what I mean.”
Medical etiquette prevented
him from giving away too much
in too-direct words, even about
a patient long dead, but from
his oblique remarks and general
observations I managed to piece
together a shocking story.
“He died without confessing
his sin,” Dr. Y said, for Dr. Y,
like Miss X, was a Catholic.
“And she, far from confessing
her part and having a priest
exorcise the house, is deliberately
and wickedly cherishing this
earthbound spirit.”
That is one explanation.
With a different outlook on life
I have worked out another, less
spine-chilling and evocative of
grisly thoughts about the pros-
pects of a life hereafter. I like
to think that Miss X,
abnormally devoted to her dead
brother, has by constant brood-
ing and unnatural concentra-
tion, made her thoughts visible
to people with a certain kind
of sensitivity. I have read of
Eastern mystics being able to
perform at will such apparently
supernatural feats. A kind of
telepathic - communication or
thought-transference.
At any rate, such an explana-
tion seems to me to belong more
to the climate of contemporary
thought than the acceptance of
an objective spirit of a dead
man haunting the place where
he sinned, tied there by his sin.
However, when I returned to
the house to collect my clothes
I found confronting me an
objective confirmation that
something strange had happened
during that night. On my
dressing-table, in front of the
mirror by the sunroom-
window, was a vase of dead
flowers, brown, dried and
shrivelled, as if they had been
there for years.
Yet my other vase, picked
from the same garden at the
same time, and standing on the
bureau by the bed, was still as
fresh as when I put them there.
looking about for a Jap plane
to have a pot at.
I felt that Donald had chosen
the wrong mustering, or, more
likely, that doting parents had
chosen it for him, for I believed
that, given his head, he would
have enlisted as a human-
torpedo.
I was roused from these vain
musings by Red coming up to
say that his starboard motor had
the sulks, and presently we
turned towards Moresby,
because we were likely to get
everything we needed there. As
soon as we hit Jackson’s Strip
Red got shooting lines with an
old squadron cobber who was
hibernating there, leaving me to
mind Donald, who showed an
indefatigable disposition to
study such items as an old
Liberator undergoing inspection,
three Dauntlesses fuelling-up
and two tough-looking
W.A.A.C.s taking a breather
from a C 54 transport.
When I became too footsore
I borrowed a jeep and rested
while he romanced over a few
boongs spraying little puddles
with D.D.T. and Korean
prisoners pottering about on the
roads, who looked up like
startled cattle at every
movement.
Finally I got him safely back
to our revetment and induced
him to settle down in the shade
and watch three erks dismantling
a hut; but I had no sooner
dozed off than there was panic
on the hut-top, the workmen
made hurried forced-landings in
the sand and lit out for the
scrub, while the entire personnel
of the wasps’ nest which they
had disturbed, totally disregard-
ing everybody else, dropped
straight on Donald, did him
over as only tropical wasps can,
and then went bristling back to
their home among the malthoid.
As soon as Red saw him, he
said, “We’ll stay the night
regardless, and see if he swells
up and busts. We don’t want
him tq do that on fmr hands.”
But when we took off from
Jackson’s next morning, Donald,
though not exactly the boy we
had taken delivery of, was sitting
up and taking happy notice,
thrilling at the Kokoda-trail
and its rugged terrain as we
chugged through the Gap.
AT the coast we altered course
and had soon left Papua
far behind and were well out
over the green water. Donald
now proceeded to recheck all his
gear for any emergency; but he
was interrupted in this by Red’s
telling us that the bloody star-
board donk. had thrown it in
at last and that this bloody old
coffin wouldn’t get us to the
races on one motor; so we
turned towards the nearest
strip, Kiriwina.
From former visits I knew
Kiriwina as a jewel of the
Pacific, a waterlily-leaf floating
on a limpid pool, a rich mass of
foliage riding ,on the waves, but
it looked worse than a dump to
me when, with Red committed
to his approach with wheels and
flaps down, a jeep went to duck
across the strip, stalled right in
the middle of it and the driver
got out of it and tried to push it
out of the way.
Red held off as long as he
could ; then he gave her the gun,
cleverly veered to starboard and,
with the port-motor fairly heav-
ing and in the final stages shoot-
ing out smoke like a rocket and
the aircraft flying tail-down like
a kite and fighting a losing
battle with gravity as with her
flaps and wheels down she
lugged half the Kiriwina atmos-
phere along, he hugged her into
a position over the sea, where he
made a cartwheel-turn and came
in with the wind, looking as if
he would not make it but finally
staging a weird, lolloping touch-
down which gave me the shivers.
“He just loved it,” said
Red. “He’d have liked it better
if we’d ground-looped.” Then
he went away to entertain the
jeep-driver, leaving me to cope
with Donald and the island 0.c.,
a browned-off ex-W.A.G. pilot-
officer, who had apparently been
filed for future reference on this
rundown strip and forgotten.
Donald had indeed loved it
and he was tickled pink at being
cast on this island paradise. He
and the young o.c. dragged us
along after lunch to. swim in a
coral lagoon, and we had just
begun to enjoy it when a group
of dusky Kiriwina maidens
with baskets on their heads
approached the palm-fringed
shore, sending us hastening for
cover in the deep water.
Donald, wholly absorbed in
the coral glories as he wandered
along the beach, did not know
that his triple-dye-decorated
frame was the object of interest
for so many eyes until he heard
a titter, looked up and saw the
maidens and promptly dived
into the nearest depression,
where he lay as still as the
hermit-crabs under him until the
girls strolled chattering away.
“We should have yelled out,”
said the o.c. “His modesty’s
hurt.”
“Let him look after his
own modesty,” said Red.
“We’ve got enough on our hands
looking after him.”
Donald came out'of his refuge
scratching, and it was very
soon obvious that it was not on
account of his wasp-stings or
abrasions. He shortly became a
picture of woe, grey in the face
and shivering with pain. Inspec-
tion of his late shelter revealed
a few little hairy grubs, which
the o.c. was confident he knew
all about. At first Donald went
red in great patches ; then he
broke out in big lumps over
which presently spread a blister-
like film like cake-icing.
“This is as far as we’ll get
him,” said Red; and, when
back at the camp the o.c.
poured over him a bottle of
something which for a start
brought a couple of sharp yelps
out of him and then sent him
into a kind of coma, I thought
so too.
“Anyway, he’s quiet and oh
his spine,” said Red. “Now we
might have a rest.”
TT was remarkable what that
coma did for Donald, for
next morning when we left,
black eyes, abrasions, wasp-j
stings and wog-bites notwith-
standing, he was obviously look-
ing forward eagerly to the
heroic deeds awaiting him in the
tiger-country; and when within
an ace of our goal two Yank
Corsairs came sniffing at us
because we had no I.F.F. and
then stayed to escort us in, he
had a great time with that gear
of his because for a while he
thought he had met a Zero at
last.
But we had not got him home
yet, for, when our destination
at last came up, the strip was
blanketed in a heavy storm and
closed to traffic, and Red,
dubious about his starboard
motor, put down at Torakina,
an emergency-strip on the coast,
where the slaving fitter we had
carried all the way again got
busy. Immediately Donald
suggested a swim.
“What about your lumps?” I
asked defensively.
“He said salt and sun would
be good,” said Donald.
So we both went along to look
after him, and we were begin-
ning to enjoy ourselves frolick-
ing about in the ripples that
passed as breakers when the
storm moved over us and pain-
fully pelted us to shelter.
It was not until the storm had
passed that we missed Donald,
who was not among the troops
on the beach or back at the air-
craft. I suggested he might
have drowned, but Red thought
we’d never get rid of him as
easily as that.
Then a Yank told us that just
before the storm he had seen
someone walking south along
the beach towards a distant cape
which marked the southern end
of Princess Augusta Bay; so
Red and I set out, mainly
because on my map that cape
was shown as the seat of a Jap
fight a.-a. battery, but really
because of our ignorance of the
locality.
“I wouldn’t wish him on my
worst enemy,” said Red. “The
poor bloody Japs have enough
to put up with here without
him.”
As we walked on and on
without sighting him, it became
obvious that he was intent, not
merely on seeing and collecting
exotic trifles, but also on coming
to grips with the enemy without
the slightest delay. The sun
grew hotter and- the sand —
coarse, black volcanic stuff —
hurt our feet. We tried walking
in the water, but the sand
seemed to cut more there ; then
we tried to find a path off the
sand, but a fly could not have
crawled into the jungle at any
point.
“We’re bloody fools,” said
Red at last; and just then we
came upon Donald straining
pool-water through a towel to
study small life. He had shoes
on and a shirt over his white
shoulders. He solicitously gave
Red the towel to put over his
baked ginger back, but there
was not much he could do about
our feet.
By this time the soles of our
feet were raw-red, and walking
on the sand was like treading on
crushed glass ; but we had to
get back somehow. Donald’s
boots were three sizes too small
for either of us, so we could
not take turns with them as
Donald suggested. We walked
on our heels and on our toes;
we tried walking deep in the
water and swimming ; Red even
went so far as to try walking
on hands and knees.
At last Red, whose feet were
worse than mine, wrapped them
up in pieces of Donald’s towel;
and that is how we managed to
get back. Red somehow took
off and dropped us at our
destination, where the three of
us went to an N.Z. m. 0., who
rubbed stuff on Donald and put
Red and me on our backs in
the sick-quarters.
“You’re going bad,” the m.o.
told Red two days later. “I
think I’ll send you back for
treatment, and if I don’t do it
quick we might have our own
Legs Bader.”
CO Red finished his year’s tour
in five days, but he must
have been tickled to have his
name in the papers in the
Accidental Injury Overseas list,
“The ship won’t turn up for a
week,” said Red. “If you want
to be in one piece then, let him
go out and be eaten by a
crocodile.”
But I have a soft heart, and
I could not help seeing his fond
parents soundly sleeping at
night in the confidence that
their eagle was in a safe muster-
ing ; anyway, in a week he would
be doing furious battle in the
safe captivity of the orderly-


Infiltrating External Affairs
The Petrov Report - II
By "EK DUM"
IN his evidence before the
royal commission Petrov
swore that he had heard
from Pakhomov, Tass news-
agency and M-V.D. representa-
tive, that an earlier espionage
“Resident,” Makarov, had
used as his agent the Tass
News representative, Nosov, who
himself was a secret Soviet Gov-
ernment agent. Nosov, in turn,
obtained his spy material from
one man, who “operated a group
of agents in Australia, who re-
ported information to him.”
Petrov declared:
I do not know the name of the
party man who at that time
(1945-48) reported to Makarov, but
his code-name was C10de....1 know
he was in close contact with Miss
dean Ferguson, of the Australia-
Russia Society, and Rex Chiplin, of
the “Tribune” the Communist
party here had a group of External
Affairs officers who were giving
them official information.
This information was dictated
to a Security man and written
down by him. When the code-
name came to be considered by
a skilled translater it was found
that the correct transliteration
from the Russian to the English
alphabet was “Klod.”
The only information which
Petrov swore that he had of
“Klod” was as follows:
One of Clode’s group was Ric
Throssell, an officer of the Depart-
ment of External Affairs. Throssell
had a code-name, “Ferro.” He
is the son of Katharine Susannah
Prichard he is not active now—-
he is very still... .1 think he is
afraid. Moscow sent me a cable
during 1953—1 t was in June —in-
structing me he was a very im-
portant man and that I had to
arrange personal contact with him
for Mr. Kislytsin In my opinion
the party contact of Throssell was
Rex Chiplin—but I am not sure of
this.
The Hunt for Klod
The information given by
Petrov, including that about
Throssell, was, of course, based
on hearsay. And he did not
know the indentity of the
mysterious go-between for whom
Moscow used the code-name of
“Klod.” The first problem,
therefore, was to identify
“Klod,” this mysterious agent
of the Russian Embassy’s im-
portant spy-system.
The first clue was found in the
“G” series of secret documents,
which Petrov had taken out of a
sealed envelope before leaving
the Embassy. These documents
in several places referred to a
person “K,” who obviously was
a. group-leader or chief contact-
agent, and who had been pass-
ing on information to the
M.V.D.
The indications were that he
was “Klod.”
Then there was found, in a
copy of a memorandum by
Sadovnikov, one of Petrov’s pre-
decessors in the M.V.D. “resi-
dency” in Canberra, a reference
to Mr. C. R. Tennant, 50 Bun-
darra-road, Bellevue Hill, Syd-
ney,- witfi a telephone-number
and the letter “K” beside it.
The Petrovs believed that
Tennant must be “K,” but the
story, as it unfolded before the
commission, was this:
The wife of t. R. Tennant, a
diplomate in Commerce of Mel-
bourne University, joined the
Communist party while it was
illegal in 1942 and remained a
member until about 1945. At
some time—she thought in 1942
or 1943 —a man named Walter
Seddon Clayton came to her,
though she did not know him,
save by repute as a party func-
tionary, and asked if he could
use her address to receive letters
for him in the name of Suther-
land. He used to telephone and
ask if there were any letters for
him and, when there were, he
would call for them.
Clayton, as a matter of fact,
was one of the best-known
Communists in the country. He
had first become really
prominent in 1939. Round July
and August, before war broke
out, and just before the signing
of the Russo-German trade-
agreement, the Communist
party of Australia suddenly
bulged with unexplained money
and was able to expand its
feeble “Workers’ Weekly” into
the bi-weekly “Tribune,” and
Clayton was in charge of the
operation of expansion and
extension of the journal’s circu-
lation.
By 1942 Clayton was one of
the four members of the Con-
trol Commission —the supreme
court, intelligence section and
disciplinary body of the Com-
munist party of Australia a
body whose relationship to the
Communist party of Australia
was very similar to that of the
M.V.D. to the Government of
the Soviet Union. (Tennant did
not know anything of his wife’s
arrangement with Clayton. He
was not, he swore, a member of
the party and disapproved of
his wife’s membership.)
Clayton later, when he was
found, admitted that he had
used the address as sworn by
Mrs. Tennant, but, he said, only
in the years 1940-42, when the
party was under ban. She said
the address was used until 1945.
Clayton was unable to explain
“the curious circumstance of the
Tennant address and telephone-
number —thus secretly used by
him—being found in an M.V.D.
document in an M.V.D. Resi-
dent’s handwriting, kept in a
sealed envelope in the M.V.D.
safe at the Soviet Embassy.” It
was proved that Clayton used
several other addresses in much
the same way.
Dr. Evatt’s New Typist
The commissioners now
turned to another document
from the M.V.D. safe which
made reference to a lady:
(6) Bernie Franciscka —born 1923,
worked as a secretary-typist in the
Secretariat of the Department of
External Affairs in Sydney. Under-
cover member of the Communist
party since 1913. “l£" was in con-
tact with her personally and re-
ceived interesting information from
her.
This young lady had the code-
name of “Sestra” —‘'Sister.” The
commissioners found that she
was “employed in the Depart-
ment of External Affairs from
November 20, 1944, to April 12,
1946, as a stenographer in the
office of the Minister, who was
at that time Dr. Evatt. She was
born in 1922, and in 1941 —again
when the party was illegal—she
joined the ' Communist party,
which directed her to join the
Federated Clerks’ Union (then
under Communist control). She
became a committee-member of
the Clerks’ Union Youth Sec-
tion and in this capacity helped
to form the Eureka Youth
League, which took the place of
the Young Communist party. Of
the Eureka League she “became
full-time paid administrative-
secretary,” though she had to
give up the work though ill-
health, while remaining a mem-
ber of the Communist party.
As secretary to the Eureka
Youth League she should have
been a familiar figure to the
Security Department, which was
then under Doctor Evatt’s
(Attorney-General’s) control and
had been since some time in 1942,
and in fact during the whole
period of the Communist infiltra-
tions into his department.
Miss Bemie’s statement was
that in 1944 she had answered an
advertisement calling applica-
tions to fill a clerical position in
the office of a member of
Parliament. In response to her
application she was interviewed
by Allan Dalziel, one of Dr.
Evatt’s secretaries, to whom she
did not disclose her party affili-
ation. She was appointed
temporary stenographer in the
Sydney office of the External
Affairs Department:—
and vo i un t e ered to report anything
she cam© across which might be
interest to th ® part /- X'X
told to take such information to
ciayton.
Miss Bernie was given “a room
to herself which adjoined the
Minister’s room with a connect-
ing door.” She “said she took
documents to Clayton on a
In t jjj s second c f three articles analysing the findings in
the report of the Petrov Royal Commission, the writer describes,
from those findings and the evidence, the war-time Communist
penetrations into, or links with staff members of, the Common-
wealth Exte mal Affairs Department in Canberra.
number of occasions.” Clayton
did not tell her that the informa-
tion was going to the Soviet, and
she did not greatly concern her-
self with the use that might be
made of it.
Dalziel, Dr. Evatt’s private-
secretary, was mentioned in the
Moscow documents. He had a
code-name, “Denis,” in Sadov-
nikov’s secret “G” documents.
Antonov reported to Moscow
Centre of the M.V.D. on his
meetings with Dalziel and in
1954 suggested “Sluga,” mean-
ing “servant,” as a code-name
for Dalziel, he and Petrov being
unaware that Dalziel already
had a code-name in Moscow.
He produced a medical certifi-
cate which led to his evidence
being given in private, though
it was afterwards printed and
circulated. He told the commis-
sioners that he met a number of
Soviet Embassy officials in the
course of his duties and was “a
frequent visitor” to the flat of
Zaitsev, Nosov (described by
Petrov as the go-between used
by the M.V.D. Resident and the
mysterious “Klod”) and
Antonov, the Tass man who
received shelter in the Embassy
after Petrov’s defection.
The commissioners report
that:
Dalziel tola us that he became
very friendly with Nosov and had
many discussions with him on poli-
tical and social matters. His associ-
ation with all these persons was
open.
He also gave evidence in which
he admitted having signed a
letter on behalf of the Legion of
Christian Youth, dated Sep-
tember 25, 1941, in which he had
written that “all work and pro-
duction should be directed
towards the common good and
not, as at present, into the over-
flowing bank-balances of a few
self-centred, power-drunk indi-
viduals who are now running
this country” ; also, that “it is to
Russia the people look for a
practical example of what can
be accomplished in a system
differing from ours. What
better way could the Govern-
ment show their sincerity than
to implement social legislation
now, using Russian principles as
a basis?”
In 1947, when he was a
temporary officer of the Depart-
ment of External Affairs, he was
sent abroad as the Australian
representative on the Human
Rights Drafting Committee. This
was at the juncture when ques-
tions about him were being sup-
pressed in the House of Repre-
sentatives.
The commissioners found in
their report that “Dalziel was
undoubtedly of interest to the
M.V.D. His position as Dr.
Evatt’s private-secretary “would
have made him a valuable
source of information if he had
been prepared to assist the
M.V.D., and this, no doubt, pro-
vides the reason for the [Moscow]
Centre’s interest in him. There
is no evidence that Dalziel im-
P f rop ® rly 8^ e a ° d y confidential
of a secret and connaenu i
either or unwitfihgly!
p etrov sa ; d ; n evidence that Pak-
l etrov said in
homov reported to him that ‘he
f , , nalziel was
himselr telt that Dalziel wa,
sympathetically disposed to-
wards the Soviet Union, although
Dalziel was always very careful
and reserved m what he, said at
his meetings with him.
The commissioners found
regarding Miss Bernie that, while
she occupied the room next to
Dr. Evatt, the Minister, her evi-
dence made it clear that she was
the woman indicated in Sadov-
nikov’s memorandum, and that
between 1944 and 1946 Sadov-
nikov was receiving information
from the Department of Ex-
ternal Affairs through her, and —
“what is even more important
—that this fact was made known
to the M.V.D.” in Moscow.
Clayton admitted that he knew
the lady, but denied that she had
given him any confidential docu-
ments. Miss Bernie said that she
had embraced Communism at
,19 in 1941 and had joined the
party a year later and given it
up in 1946.
Canberra Pilgrimage
The next person investigated
in following the trail was Jack
Legge—described by Moscow as
“chemistry scientist, member of
the Communist party since
1936.” Moscow reported that
“when the Communist party was
in an illegal situation ‘K’ used
the house of Legge (J.) for the
publication of the newspaper
‘Tribune.’” Legge “carried out
missions of the Communist
party when he visited Scandi-
navia A relative of ‘L’
works in the political Intelligence
Department of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs.”
He had been a member of the
Communist party since 1935. He
agreed that when the party was
under ban his house was used
for the distribution of the illegal
“Tribune,” which was one of
Clayton’s party tasks. He ad-
mitted that when in Scandinavia
he made touch with the Com-
munist parties there.
He was senior lecturer in Bio-
chemistry at Melbourne Uni-
versity when the commission sat
—several university colleagues
protested against his being inter-
l2 years earlier,
during the war in 1942, in the
days when he was publisher of
the illegal Communist journal,
“he joined the Munitions Depart-
ment and was engaged in secret
research related to defence
against chemical warfare.”
The commissioners were con-
vinced that he and Clayton
visited Canberra together for the
purpose of sounding-out George
Legge, a cousin of Jack and
Second Secretary in the Euro-
pean, American and Middle East
Division of the External Affairs
Department, to see whether he
would supply to Clayton confi-
dential information acquired in
the course of his official duties.
George Legge failed to disclose
to his superiors that this im-
proper approach had been made
to him—a fact which George
Legge admitted, though he said
he had “told Clayton and his
cousin that he would have none
of it.”
The List of “K’s” Contacts
Next for the consideration of
the commissioners came a docu-
ment in the handwriting of
Sadovnikov, Petrov’s predecessor
as head of the Australian branch
of the M.V.D., which was
headed “Contacts K.” There
were 11 names or code-names.
The eleventh was “B-Dep.
Director of the Department of
External Affairs.”
The commissioners wrote that
“this entry clearly refers to Dr.
John Wear Burton.” Dr. Burton
entered the department in June,
1941, in a junior post and rose
later, under Dr. Evatt, so
rapidly that by March, 1947,
he had become Secretary and
Permanent Head.
The commissioners found that
“an explanation of Sadovnikov’s
reference to Dr. Burton as a
“Contact ‘K’ ” was to be found
in another entry on the list of
contacts—“(B) Sister of the wife
of B.”
This lady turned out to be a
Mrs. P. H. Beasley, sister-in-law
of Dr. Burton, who joined the
Communist party in 1945, and
was still a member of it when
the commission sat. Her hus-
band was a member of the com-
mittee of the Sydney Metro-
politan District of the Com-
munist party. She knew Clayton,
met him casually with other
Communists, and he called on
occasions at her home.
The commissioners had no
evidence before them to allege
that Clayton ever contacted Dr.
Burton or that Clayton ever
obtained any information either
directly or indirectly from him.
They thought that Dr. Bur-
ton’s important position in the
department was in itself suffi-
cient to account for the M.V.D.
interest in him, if only for the
purpose of obtaining information
“in the dark” from him. And
they were satisfied that he had
nothing to do with the appoint-
ment of a Miss Newbigin, a
Communist sympathiser, to the
Registry of the Archives of the
External Affairs Department,
though she claimed that he had
secured her appointment.
All Boys Together
Of the other names on Sadov-
nikov’s list of contacts with
Clayton or “K” in Dr. Evatt’s
department, there were seven of
interest. The first was “Tourist,”
which the commissioners were
satisfied covered the identity of
James Frederick Hill.
The ' code-name “Tourist”
also appeared in another docu-
ment in Sadovnikov’s calli-
graphy which referred to “Wil-
bur Christinson” code-name
“Master,” described as “husband
of sister of ‘Tourist.’ ” The com-
missioners identified “Christin-
son” as Wilbur Norman Chris-
tiansen, whose wife was a
sister of E. F. Hill, secretary
of the Communist party of
Victoria, a member of the
central committee of the
Australian Communist party
and leading counsel for the Com-
munist party and various mem-
bers of it before the commission.
The other brother Hill, J. F.
(“Tourist” to Moscow), was a
graduate of Arts and Law at
Melbourne University. He had
joined the Communist party in
1937-38 and became secretary of
the Moonee Ponds branch. He
declared that he dropped out of
the party during the war and did
not renew his membership.
In June, 1945, the External
Affairs Department appointed
him to a temporary position as
research-officer in the Post-
Hostilities Planning Division of
the External Affairs Depart-
ment. At the time he was ap-
pointed the head of the depart-
ment was lan Milner, who
became a subject for suspicion
later with Security long before
Petrov defected.
In 1953, Petrov had been
asked by Moscow (which de-
tailed Milner’s travels abroad
as an Australian diplomat) to
find out how the Australian Gov-
ernment would be likely to react
if Milner returned to New Zea-
land for permanent residence.
Mrs. Petrov said that while
(Continued on page 27\


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street] Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PVBLIO
Circular Charts for all type!
of Recording Instruments
tor v\f (Um •< HkMmq
•» Cqwipmcnt
MfT6« CMABTS • Spedahr
JACI®fSrO , SULIJY/IN^.U
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
With the completion of the
A.J.C. spring carnival it’s now
Cups time! First of the string
of them, the £lO,OOO Caulfield
Cup, plus a £350 trophy (H
mile), will highlight the V.A.T.C.
meeting this coming Saturday.
Practically all the best horses
from the various States of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand will be
in the Caulfield Cup line-up.
Form has been well exposed
during the past few weeks, and
at the meeting at Caulfield today
(Wednesday) there should be
additional form pointers, as
several Cup horses are due to
run in the £3OOO Caulfield Stakes
and the £l5OO Coongy Handi-
cap ; winners of these are not
subject to a Cup penalty.
For the Caulfield Cup: Red-
craze, 1; Cromis, 2 ; Ribera, 3.
At Caulfield last Saturday
Rising Fast, second at his two
prior starts, won the
Herbert Power Handicap. It
was a striking performance, as
he carried 9.8 on a heavy track.
He’s due to have a shot at his
second Caulfield Cup, in which
he has what looks a crushing
weight, 9.10. He is similarly
weighted in the Melbourne Cup.
Amounis’s win 25 years ago with
9.8 is still the Caulfield record
weight-carrying performance.
Rising Fast won the Caulfield
Stakes last season from Cromis
and Hydrogen in the smart time
of 1.49 f. Rising Fast then
won the Caulfield Cup from
Electro and Advocate. Peshawar
won the same double in 1952, as
did Columnist in 1947, Tranquil
Star in 1942 and Amounis in
1930, so the weight-for-age race
has been a Cup guide. It could
again prove a pointer to the
rich mile-and-a-half.
French-bred Atout Maitre,
sire of winners of upwards of
£45,000 in England and in
other parts of Europe, has begun
well as a sire of Australian
thoroughbreds. He is by Vatout
from Royal Mistress by Teddy,
and himself won races up to
two miles in England. Mistomer,
surprise winner of the opening
event at Caulfield on Saturday,
the Debutante Stakes for fillies,
is a daughter of Atout Maitre
and Saya and is closely related
to the brilliant Estache. Saya, a
winner in Perth, is a half-sister
to the well-performed New Zea-
lander Royal Chief (£18,697).
She is by J. R. Smith (imp.)
from Modiste II (imp.) by
Franklin.
Winner of the Rosehill
Guineas, the A.J.C. Derby, and
now the Caulfield Guineas at his
last three starts, Caranna needs
only to be fit on the day to add
the £7OOO Victoria Derby to his
list. That classic will be run
on the opening day of the Mel-
bourne Cup meeting at Fleming-
ton, Saturday, October 29.
Caranna*is the best three-year-
old in years; he has now won
£15,453 in stakes. It is 17 years
since a three-year-old won both
the AJ.C. Derby and the Caul-
field Guineas, last one being
Nuffield.
Odds-on Updraught, convinc-
ing winner at his only prior
start, at Flemington, was easily
defeated into third place by Fly-
ing Raven and Meadow Sun in
Caulfield’s First Debutant Stakes
(colts and geldings). Flying
Raven was having his first start
in public, and a saloon-passage
on the inside of the track at
the home turn assisted in his
victory. He is another by suc-
cessful Empyrean (imp.) and is
from the Kinderscout (imp.)
mare Kinder Guide, tracing
back to Comedy King (imp.). A
first foal, Flying Raven is from
the family which produced Red
Dome, V.R.C. Newmarket
winner.
Rimveil, winner of the Epsom,
and Amata, a Newmarket
winner, belong to the family
which produced Vinic, winner
of Caulfield’s Second Debutant
Stakes (colts and geldings) at
long odds. It was his first start.
His trainer, H. Wolters, also
supplied third-placegetter, Stra-
loch. Vinic is a Whirlaway
(imp.) colt. A first foal, he is
from Cuvee by Brueghel (imp.),
and goes back on the dam’s
side to Wallace, son of Carbine.
The AJ.C. should revert to
the old order of running the
Epsom on the opening day of
its spring carnival and the
Metropolitan on the second
day. Its experiment of chang-
ing the sequence of the big races
seems doomed to failure, and
the early acceptance for the
Metropolitan took a lot of
interest from that £6OOO contest.
The original acceptance of 29
dwindled to such extent that
only 13 horses went to the post.
That should convince the AJ.C.
that taking a final acceptance
nine days before an important
handicap is farcical.
Beaupa (15 to 1) won the
Metropolitan nicely from New
Zealander Toparoa and the un-
lucky Electro, whose jockey, W.
Camer, had a hard-luck story to
tell. Ray Ribbon hit the front
in the straight, but failed to
see the journey out, as did the
favorite, Port Arthur (fourth).
The Port Arthur Metrop.
rumpus subsided with his de-
feat. Had Port Arthur been
an outsider maybe nothing would
have been said officially about
his starting in the long race.
Owners are supposed to be
guided by the rules of racing,
and can be punished for not
obeying them, but the official
move in the Port Arthur case
will do more to keep owners
from racing than attract them
to the sport. Owners have their
rights regarding the running of
horses, and to retain their con-
fidence they should be given a
better deal. After all, it is cost-
ing them a fortune to keep in
racing, and they have to win
races to remain adtive partici-
pants. Then, again, Port Arthur
was only one of 16 scratchings
after final acceptance for the
Metrop.
Jockeys of beaten horses
generally make some excuse or
other, but none was forthcoming
when Hans downed New Zea-
landers King’s Fair and Magic
Carpet II in the Epsom. The
sixry ear-old sprinter had shown
consistent form leading up to
the big mile, which was worth
£4027 to owners C. F. and F. L.
Mills. Ridden by an apprentice,
E. Lee, Hans was one of the
smallest horses in the field, but
he was handy to the lead all the
way.
Gimcrack winner Sajax is a
daughter of the French sire
Tsaoko (by Vatellor) and Ajalon
by Ajax from Minnamurra by
Brueghel (imp.). Ajalon is a
sister to Achilles, a winner of
the Epsom and the All-Aged
Stakes.
My Kingdom, A.J.C. Canon-
bury Stakes winner, followed
Royal Kingdom into the Rand-
wick yearling-sale ring earlier
this year. In the Canonbury
My Kingdom beat Royal King-
dom, but the latter’s winning
turn might be close at hand. As
their names indicate, they are
sons of imported sire Star
Kingdom ; Bara m u 1 Stud,
Kerrabee (N.S.W.).
Supporters of King Boru, win-
ner of Randwick Chester Handi-
cap, were prepared for a quick
sell-out when the course broad-
caster commented, “King Boru
is a ‘mile’ away, last,” as the
field began to round the home-
turn. However, Kirig Boru’s
jockey, N. McGrowdie, is one
rider who never gives up, and
he got his mount home a neck in
front of Aquarua, with Arkban
third. King Boru must have
covered his final three furlongs
in remarkably fast time ; it was
an amazing burst of speed.
Early two-year-old form in
recent seasons hasn’t been too
“Blasted flat tyre!”
difficult to follow, but so far this
season, in both Melbourne and
Sydney, surprises have been in
store for odds-takers. Royal
Maureen, at 15 to 1, improved
sharply on her Gimcrack Stakes
failure to down the hot favorite,
Sweet Apple, with Flag Top
third, in the A.J.C. Widden
Stakes, restricted to fillies.
She is a Gaekwar’s Pride
(imp.) filly from Ophelia by
Felcrag (imp.). She is closely
related to Nagpuni, winner of
the Doomben Ten Thousand and
now winning races in fast time
in America.
* * *
Mohammed won the first
Spring Cup warm-up, the Flying
Mile, on the opening night of
Harold Park’s Spring Carnival.
The Trotters’ Free-for-All was
a breeze for Sandan; she broke
only once —a few times less than
her nerve-wracked supporters
are accustomed to seeing.
Mohammed and Sandan are
two of the smallest trotters
racing, but they both take
inordinate strides for their
inches. The moral of the night’s
racing was: Don’t discard a
horse because of its size or, in
Sandan’s case, its moodiness.
Mohammed is by Rex Oro,
son of King Oro, now leading
sire in W.A. His dam, Delhi
Cross, is by Double Cross, from
Dolly Blac, by Walla Walla,
from Ukelele Girl, by Machine
Brick. A nice pedigree. His
main virtue is his ability to rise
to the occasion—always a factor
in a big run. Sandan is by
imported U. Scott from the
Wrack (imp.) mare Sea Gift. A
similar display of manners in
next week’s Trotters’ Cup will
mean another victory for the
best square-gaiter in the land.
First of the qualifying heats
of the Spring Handicap pro-
vided a brilliant finish and a
reward for the consistency of
Finley’s Air. * Despite the
critics, his young driver, C.
Daley, drove like a veteran.
Efforts of runners-up Prince
Gordon and Dress Sense were
good. They could qualify next
week. Esquire was a brilliant
winner of the Second Division.
He was boxed with a furlong to
go, raced four wide at the turn
and finished with a burst that is
becoming instinctive. By Lawn
Derby from the Childe Wood
mare Child Silk, this fellow
appears to have struck a
perfectly-timed purple patch.
The other qualifying heats
were won by Van Hall and
Worthy Carl. Racing for the
first time in bandages, Van Hall
returned to his best form, clock-
ing a mile-gait of 2.Bl—best
of the four heats. Van Hall’s
trouble has been his breaking—
if not at the start, during his
races. He kept at his task on
Friday, and may now hold his
form to be a threat in the Final.
Another of the Lawn Derbys,
. Worthy Carl made a sudden
return to the form that was
expected of him in his earlier
years to take the Fourth Divi-
sion. Mineral Spring, an early
choice for the final, ran into all
the bother possible in this race,
still to finish fourth. Five
horses, winners and the fastest
second —Silver Hero —go into
the Final. The same applies
next week, when Mineral Spring
and Marine Dealer (scratched
on Friday) have to win before
they can pull off the Final. *
All trotting-centres are back
from hibernation now except
Victoria. When the Victorians
get over their exhaustive trot-
programme at the Royal Show
they’ll open their new season on
October 21, the main race on
the programme the £6OO Federal
Free-for-All. They lead up to
their big Christmas Carnival,
culminating in the running of
the £3OOO A. G. Hunter Cup,
which this year will probably
attract many of the best in
Australasia, by then cruising
round prior to the February
Inter-Dominion in Sydney.
+ -I-
Peter Thomson won his fourth
N.Z. Open with 10 strokes in
hand from fellow-countryman
Kel Nagle. Thomson missed a
record total for the event by one
stroke. His four-round aggre-
gate was 280.
Melbourne is planning a big
golf carnival to coincide with
the 1956 Olympics. All the
State’s golfing heads are devising
the programme. It is hoped that
arrangements can be made to
stage the Canada Cup in either
Sydney or Melbourne.
* * *
At the 60th G.P.S. carnival
at Sydney Cricket Ground eight
records were broken and six
equalled: which is in the usual
nature of things—last year
records in all were broken o
equalled. Outstanding efforts
this year were those of Hatcher
of St. Joseph’s, clipping 3.2 sec
off the half-mile record, to win
in lmin. 56.3, and also winning
the mile; Swinburn, of Shore
winning the sprint treble, 100
220-440yds.; and, among the
juniors, Hennessy (Joey’s
winning five events (setting two
records), and High’s sprinter
Lewis, who, in three runs, broke
one record and equalled two
others. Joey’s, winning both
divisions, senior and junior, wa
champion school.
* * *
The various State cricket-
squads from which Shield teams
will come have now been
selected. The Queensland squad
was picked as early as mid-
August; it and the Victorian
party have been given a course
of physical-training. N.S.W.
which won the Shield last year
is not going in for anything so
drastic; but with eight Test-
players and other good-’uns it
should be again hard to beat
With a tour of England ahead,
this year’s Shield season should
produce some tip-top cricket.
W.A. is in the Shield again
this year on the modified basis
on which it has been since its
entry in 1947-48 —two matches
at home and two away. Last
year the whole Shield pro-
gramme was modified, and W.A.
had only two games, both
against S.A. This year—not
for the first time —the Sand-
gropers pleaded for the same
number of matches as the
other States play; but the con-
trolling body, doubtless thinking
of the cost involved, again said
No.
\
“Roscoe”: Postscript to Des
Healey’s being knocked cold by
“Bluey” Adams in the Mel-
bourne grand-final (B. 28/9/’55).
Batting for Collingwood firsts in
the first pennant-round Healey
was out caught-and-bowled—
Adams! (Same Healey, but a
different Adams.)
* * *
“Otakou”: In B. 14/9/’55
“0.V.” pulled-up “Old Rep.” for
stating that Colin Gilray, who
played for N.Z. against the tour-
ing Australian Rugby Union
team at Tahuna Park, Dunedin,
in 1905, had just returned from
Great Britain as a Rhodes
Scholar with a Scottish cap. But
“0.V.” himself erred in saying
that the whole three-quarter line
for N.Z. that day came from
the Otago University team. The
three - quarters were Gilray,
Bennet and Macpherson—all of
Otago province, but not all of
Otago University. Bennet, the
centre, was a member of the
Alhambra Club.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: On October 1,
7000 lifesavers began a 24-hour
round-the-clock vigil on Aus-
tralian beaches. In 48 years
members of the Australian Surf
Life Saving Association have
saved 96,000 lives. At Torquay
(Vic.) in November next year a
special display will be put on
for Olympic visitors. Teams
from Great Britain, South
Africa, New Zealand, Ceylon
and Hawaii have accepted invi-
tations to attend.


I
Not too BIG;
Powered, sized, equipped &
priced for versatile work!
m
s
It's right—it’s FARM-RIG HT!
With more farm-right features than any other tractor, Fordson Major is unequalled for all-
purpose capacity and all-job economy. The latest overhead valve, low-friction engines
deliver much more power, use less fuel and work longer .. . 6-speed transmission ... “touch-
control” hydraulics . . . 3-point linkage . . . range of “Crown” and matched implements and
equipment, and many other advances result in savings of time, labour, and money. See your
Fordson Dealer, he will show you, feature by feature, why Fordson ’
is farm-right for you.
TW°
FARM-R«G HT
MODELS
kerosene model
£9lB
vritb pneumatic tytes
diesel model
£ 1077
tyre.
Optional equipment—
Hydraulic lift and 3-point linkage only £76*
EMraSKSDOE!
FM26A-40
Your Fordson Dealer will supply further details.
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 64 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
working in the External Affairs
Department Milner had given
information to the M.V.D.
through ‘*Klod” (Clayton),
according to the cable from the
Moscow M.V.D. Centre.
Petrov used Chiplin, a reporter
of the “Tribune,” whose name
appeared in the Moscow letters
and who was “regarded by the
Moscow Centre as an agent”;
to try to ferret out the Govern-
ment’s attitude on Milner.
Milner was a Rhodes Scholar,
from 1940-44 lecturer in Political
Science at Melbourne Univer-
sity. His pro-Soviet writings
were well known when he was
added to Dr. Evatt’s staff in the
Post-hostilities Planning De-
partment despite strong protests
made by “two responsible per-
sons, on the ground of his pro-
Soviet sympathies,” as evidenced
in his writings.
Within a few weeks of his
appointment as investigating
officer, and during the absence
of the head of his division over-
seas, he became acting-head of
the division, and in that capacity
represented the department on
the Defence Post-Hostilities
Planning Committee, a com-
mittee which included representa-
tives of the three armed forces
and “dealt with highly secret
material, some of it supplied by
Australia’s friends.”
On January 3, 1947, Milner
left External Affairs to become
a political-affairs officer in the
Security Council Secretariat of
U.N.0., and in the course of his
duties he spent some time in
Korda. In 1950 he resigned and
went to Czechoslovakia to take
up, under the Communist regime,
a post at the Charles University,
Prague.
Security in 1948-49 found that
while acting on the Defence
Post-Hostilities Planning Com-
mittee he had secret documents
in his possession in circum-
stances which gave rise to grave
suspicion as to the use he made
of them.
This, then, was the head of the
Post-Hostilities Division of Dr.
Evatt’s department, with J. F.
Hill —on his own statement ex-
Communist —brother to one high
Communist functionary, his
sister the wife of the Super-
vising Engineer of A.W.A.’s
Beam Wireless Development
Laboratory and later Principal
Research officer in Astron-
omy Section, Radio Physics,
C.5.1.R.0. The husband was a
member of the Association of
Scientific Workers, a body of
which the commissioners said
that in it the Communists were
active.
The commissioners were told
by Dr. Burton that some sus-
picion fell on Milner and Hill
when the Security Department
was reorganised by Mr. Chifley
in 1949, but Dr. Burton
said “he always regarded
Hill as a reliable officer.” He
said that he “thought the lack
of security in respect of the two
men” related to “unimportant
matters.”
Their Honors, however,
remarked that “our fuller know-
ledge, gained from the material
we have examined, leads us to
the conclusion that he [Dr.
Burton] was quite wrong in his
evaluation of the importance of
the relevant matters.”
Hill in 1950 was questioned by
Security in London, where he
was acting First Secretary.
He had advanced through three
grades in less than five years.
It was suggested to him that leak-
ages had occurred through him ;
but this he denied. He said that
he had never met Clayton or
improperly disclosed anything.
In February, 1951, he was trans-
ferred out of the External
Affairs Department into the
Legal Service Bureau and
shortly afterwards left Govern-
ment employ.
Rose By Other Name
Next came a person named
“Joe/’ said to be in the archives
section of the department. No-
body was able to identify Joe ;
but there was more success with
a girl who was described as
“member of the Communist
party, having finished the school
of the Department of External
Affairs, will go to work in the
department.”
She was proved to be a
Miss June Barnett, another of
the teeming Communists whom
Melbourne University seems to
have fed into the public service.
Miss Barnett was a W.A.A.A.F.
during the war, took her B.A. in
1945, was selected in 1948 as a
cadet for the External Affairs
Department. She joined the
Communist party in 1944 while
a member of the Air Force and,
after discharge, the Camberwell
branch of the party, but said she
resigned in 1948, when she
became a candidate for the Ex-
ternal Affairs Department and
had taken no part in Com-
munist activities since.
Her inclusion in Sadovnikov’s
list as a contact of “K” was ex-
plained as follows:
She was introduced to Rose
(a Communist who was
appointed, in 1946, to the
Department of Post-war Recon-
struction and who at first
refused to answer ques-
tions before the commission) by
George Legge, the cousin of Jack
Legge. She often visited Rose’s
home. Rose asked her to
“meet a Communist official
from Sydney in order to
discuss with him her rejoining
the Communist party or helping
it in some way, and that after
some hesitation she agreed to the
meeting, although she admitted
she presumed she was going to be
asked to help the official in
relation to her work in the
department.”
This proved all too true. She
was introduced to the man she
met “by a name which she could
not remember” and her
description of him “would have
fitted Clayton”; but she de-
clared, when Clayton was put in
the box, that she was unable to
say one way or the other whether
he was the man.
Despite denials by Clayton and
Rose of the whole incident, the
judges were satisfied that Clay-
ton did attempt to suborn
her as an officer of the Govern-
ment. She stated that she refused
his suggestions.
Their Honors wrote:
At the time of the approach to her.
Miss Barnett was an experienced,
intelligent woman of 30. She made
no disclosure to any of her superior
officers Qf the improper approach
to her, and she continued to visit
Rose's home thereafter. We should
point out that such a non-disclosure
by a public servant is no offence
against Australian law, as it now
stands.
Now came a very interesting
character, referred to among
“K’s” contacts as “(9) Don
Woods —Secretary of the Ad-
viser of Dr. E. on ‘Enormaz’ ”
the Moscow code-word for
“atomic energy.”
The adviser was Dr. Briggs,
Chief of the Division of Physics
in the National Standards
Laboratory of the C.5.1.R.0. He
was seconded to the External
Affairs Department in 1946 and
again in 1947 in order to accom-
pany and give technical advice to
an Australian delegation to the
United Nations Atomic Energy
Commissipn which was headed
by Dr. Evatt for part of the
time. Dr. Briggs was chosen
because he had had some know-
ledge of the early research into
nuclear physics.
A Moscow letter dated June
14, 1948, had instructed the
M.V.D. Resident at the Can-
berra Embassy to communicate
further evidence about “Don
Woods,” then described as
“former secretary of the adviser
of Dr. E. on atomic energy of
Briggs.”
The commissioners had no
hesitation in coming to the con-
clusion that Woods was actually
Woodward, secretary to the De-
partment of Physics, a London
University man who joined the
C.5.1.R.0. in 1943 and in 1945
was in the radio-physics section,
and who in 1945 became secre-
tary to Dr. Briggs’s division.
He joined the Communist
party in 1944 or 1945 while in
the department and became
chairman of the Woolwich
branch. He did not tell Dr.
Briggs a “man of high
integrity” and under no sus-
picion—that he was a Com-
munist. He said he remained
in the party about two years
and did not know Clayton, but
had known one Greenfield, who
was a paid organiser of the
party when Clayton also was a
paid organiser. He was “an
unsatisfactory witness,” and the
evidence caused the commis-
sioners to believe that “Clayton
had brought his particulars to
the notice of the M.V.D.”
The Case of Throssell
Ric Throssell had been men-
tioned to Petrov by his prede-
cessor as “one of ‘Klod’s’
group,” whom Moscow had
“instructed me was a very im-
portant man... .in my opinion
the Party contact of Throssell
was Rex Chiplin (‘Tribune’
reporter).”
Throssell, joining the Ex-
ternal Affairs Department in
1943, was added to the Post-
Hostilities Planning Division and
served as Third Secretary at the
Moscow Embassy, 1945-46.
Early in 1949 he was sent to be
Second Secretary at Rio de
Janeiro. In 1947 he married
Eileen Dorothy Jordan, a
librarian in the External Affairs
Department, later a records-
clerk. .
Throssell said that he did not
know Clayton and that he could
not remember circumstances in
(i Continued on page 30)


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE — MARINE — ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
oTRUAN/ ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “Tbe Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to-—.
NAME ,
ADDRESS
r<
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Before young
people marry
In over two decades of pre-mar-
riage connselling, Dr. Abraham
Stone has helped hundreds of
couples understand the physical
and emotional side of marital
relations. Now, in the October
Reader’s Digest, Dr. Stone ex-
plains what such a ion
consists of; how it can lead to
a happier marriage.
You’ll enjoy the variety of
stimulating articles in October
Reader’s Digest, which features
many new improvements to add
to your reading pleasure: higher-
quality paper, easier - to - read
type and attractive modern bind-
ing. At only 2/- it’s unparal-
leled reading value for all the
family. Now on sale at all
newsagents and bookstalls. Make
3ure of Reader’s Digest today.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GREECE AND TURKEY
HTHE consensus of press-
opinion on the Cyprus situ-
ation is—as the following typical
comment indicates that the
developing strain on relations
between Greece and Turkey,
and, therefore, on the Balkan
Pact, is more serious than
Britain’s more-or-less personal
troubles with the island and the
resurgence of “union - with -
Greece” feeling:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Far more critical than the
domestic problem now confront-
ing British policy in the island
[Cyprus] is the enmity between
Greece and Turkey which this
issue has crystallised. A link
in the free world’s defences is
being strained to breaking-point.
Greece has boycotted Nato
exercises ; the Balkan Pact, join-
ing her with Turkey and Yugo-
slavia, is threatened. This is
not, of course, the result of
British policy on Cyprus. Cyprus
is merely the catalyst that has
set latent enmities into explo-
sive reaction.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“The demand of the Cyprians
for self-determination the Turks
brush aside as illogical, unhis-
torical, unrealistic. Economic-
ally, they argue, Cyprus is not
self-supporting, but was depend-
ent on Turkish imports when
cut off from British supplies in
World War 11. Strategically,
Turkey cannot permit Cyprus
to become the last link in a
chain of Greek islands encircl-
ing the Turkish shoreline.
Ethnically, Turkey fears
domination of the Turkish
minority in Cyprus by the over-
whelming Greek majority.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times”:
“ ‘Self-determination,’ the Greek
slogan, has become the catch-
word of the controversy. But
it is no more than a catchword.
It is no answer to problems of
divided communities; for it
merely leads to another ques-
tion ‘self-determination for
whom?’ ”
* * *
“New York Times”: “Because
the population of Cyprus is
nearly 20 per cent. Turkish this
is one of those cases where the
enforcement of the will of the
overwhelming majority mijght
make trouble. Indeed the mere
suggestion of it stirred up riots
in Turkey and has led to terrorist
threats in Cyprus itself. These
are serious enough to cause the
British to reinforce their troops
and to set up a blockade to cut-
off the running of arms from
Greece. The handful of Com-
munists in the neighborhood
seem as usual to be making as
much trouble as they can.”
* * *
London “Spectator”: “It
should be no secret to the Greek
Government that, if a choice had
to be made between Greece and
Turkey as allies in the Eastern
Mediterranean, it is Turkey, the
stronger and richer Power, that
would be chosen.”
* * *
A letter from E. Hinterhoff to
the “Manchester Guardian”:
“The following solution seems
the best possible way out from
the present stalemate:
“To transfer British
sovereignty to Nato ;
“To transform Cyprus from
a British military base into a
Nato naval, military, and air
base, with a High Commissioner
appointed by Nato, replacing
the present British Governor ;
“To garrison the island not
only with British troops but also
with token contingents from all
the Nato countries, including
also a contingent from the
United States;
“To hammer-out in the Nato
Council of Ministers, in co-
operation with the parties con-
cerned, a new Constitution, with
an emphasis on the international
character of the island ;
“Such an arrangement to last
for the duration of the present
political and strategic emerg-
ency—i.e., as long as Nato will
exist.”
• mm
London “Observer”: “The
British proposal for self-govern-
ment, with safeguards for the
Turkish minority, combined
with the formation of a tripar-
tite British-Greek-Turkish super-
visory commission (which should
be offered greater prominence
and responsibility) represents
the only fair solution. The
Turks could not seriously hold-
out against this offer if the Greek
Government, on second
thoughts, decided to accept
some such way of ensuring both
the democratic rights of the
Greek population and its own
association with the administra-
tion of the island, instead of
continuing on the more primi-
tive road of ‘all or nothing’
nationalism.”
A National "Love-
Affair"
The U.S. is already prepar-
ing for its 1956 Presidential
campaign and sorting-out some
of the issues on which it will be
fought. “Congressional Quar-
terly,” a non-partisan news-ser-
vice which concerns itself with
the words and deeds of Uncle
Sam’s Federal legislators, lately
asked them their ideas about
the central issues of the forth-
coming campaign.
Those who answered —286 of
the 96 Senators and 435 Re pre-
—London "Daily Mail"
IN MEMORIAM
sentatives —ranked the issues in
this order: taxes and Govern-
ment economy/ farm price-sup-
ports, prosperity and employ-
ment, foreign aid, Eisenhower-
support, military strength and
spending, power- and w'ater-
development, highways, school-
aid and the draft (i.e., compul-
sory service).
Issues which loomed large
only a few months ago, such as
the record of the Truman and
Roosevelt Administrations, and
Senator McCarthy, were way
down the list —27th and 46th
respectively in a total of 50.
Commenting, Boston (U.S.A.)
“Post” described the list as “of
academic interest only, for the
crux of the 1956 elections is
President Eisenhower’s decision
on running for another term”:
“The poll didn’t ask for views
on whether the Congressmen
believed that he would. The
Republicans probably all would
have said that he will run again
and the Democrats probably
would be split, with most of them
wishing that he wouldn’t.”
That was written before the
President’s illness, which could
have a considerable bearing on
his decision about running for
another term. Also written just
before his illness, James Reston’s
evaluation (in “New York
Times”) of the President’s popu-
larity is quite an impressive
testimony.
This popularity, Reston notes,
has passed “the bounds of
reasonable calculation”—it is no
longer “a remarkable political
fact, but a kind of national love-
affair, which cannot be analysed
satisfactorily by the political
scientists.”
When the Republican State
chairmen met in Washington,
Reston adds, they considered
such problems as war, juvenile-
delinquency, the decline in
farm-prices, parental irresponsi-
bility, the division of Europe and
Germany, polio, death on the
roads, the school-shortage and
all the rest. They “came to the
same conclusion about every-
thing—lke was the answer”:
“To a man they agreed that
if he should refuse to stand for
re-election next year the con-
fusion in the party would be in-
describable, but even in their
private sessions with one an-
other they refused to consider
an alternative.” ,
They may have to, of course,
but in the meantime it is, as
Reston says, “a remarkable
psychological situation”:
“Roosevelt at the height of his
popularity never had it so good.
The Democrats were just as
single-minded when they based
all their hopes on the re-election
of F.D.R., but they were much
more cynical about it, and even
when they backed him many
of them criticised him openly.
“Eisenhower today not only
commands the overwhelming
support of his party, but the
affection as well. There is some-
thing very personal about his
following.”
The President, Reston con-
cludes, “is indeed a symbol of
the atmosphere of the time :
optimistic, prosperous, escapist,
pragmatic, friendly, attentive in
moments of crisis and compara-
tively inattentive the rest of the
time.
“What America is, at this
moment of her history, so is
Eisenhower, and the Democrats
don’t know what to make of it.
They are trying to criticise him,
but, as ‘Peck’ Trussell of ‘The
Times’ said, ‘ln politics, you
can’t kick a man when he’s up.’ ”
British Air-power
Whatever else Britain’s R.A.F.
ma y be short of at the moment,
lt certainly doesn’t lack critics,
°he of them, Air-Chief-Marshal
Sir Phili P Joubert, writing cur-
rently in London “Daily Mail,”
seems fairl y satisfied with civil
aviation—the Comet IV “may
weli be a world-beater”; the
Viscount is “an outstanding suc-
cess” l and the Britannia “a
worthy follow-on”—but he is
“far from happy about the new
Service aircraft.”
His misgivings are based on
the belief that the British
Ministry of Supply is en-
couraging or allowing the
aircraft-industry “to pro-
duce prototypes that are far too
much akin to the operational
aircraft of 1939-45.”
He puts the theory that the
days of dogfights between, and
ground-attack by, single-seaters
are gone, and that interception
by fighters of modern bombers
of almost equal speed would be
extremely difficult. He suggests,
instead, the development of an
interceptor-fighter “something
like a glorified Canberra” a
three-seater, with pilot, radar-
operator and rocket-gunner, and
with rockets capable of 3000
m.p.h. The two-seater Javelin,
he adds, is an approach towards
this idea, but its endurance is too
limited, and, anyway, it is not
yet in service.
Of bombers, Joubert asks “is
it essential when carrying the
atom-bomb to use an aircraft
as large as the ‘V’-type?”
(Valiant,-Victor and Vulcan.) He
has seen drawings, he claims, of
machines much smaller and
much faster than the “V’s” and
quite capable of carrying an
atom-bomb.
Joubert’s conclusion is that
the policy of the Ministry of
Supply with Service aircraft has
been misconceived and is a
failure; he suggests that “the
whole business of aircraft-design
and -production should be
handed back to the Air Ministry,
thus bringing the user and the
maker into the close contact that
alone can assure success.”
Coming to the defence from
a long way off, Baltimore
(U.S.A.) “Sun,” “without pre-
suming to argue with Sir Philip
on this matter,” recalls that, “15
years ago, in September of 1940,
the R.A.F. was supposed to be
pretty much obsolete”:
“A certain Hermann Goering
was convinced of it: all he had
to do, he thought, was to snuff-
out the last vestiges of life.
“How wrong Goering was is
written brilliantly in history.
The R.A.F. refused to die. Short
of planes and short of men —
though some of the planes were
Spitfires, and most of the men
heroes —it fought off the worst
the Luftwaffe could give, and
emerged victorious. Britain was
saved from invasion. The United
States was given time to prepare.
A long, bloody passage lay
ahead, but Hitler had in fact
lost the war.
“It may be that today’s Royal
Air Force needs improvement;
but the R.A.F. saved the world
once, and we would still bet
on it.”
Germany
The will to work and a pros-
pering economy, plus the wise
and patient diplomacy of Dr.
Adenauer, have contributed
greatly to aligning West Ger-
many on the side of the Western
Powers. The problem of Ger-
man unification remains, how-
ever, and every blandishment
from the Soviet must be con-
sidered in that light.
Russia, as London “Econo-
mist” comments, is “playing for
high stakes —no less than part-
nership with Germany”:
“It is inevitable that thoughts
should leap back to days when
German leaders imagined that,
without friends in the West, they
could collaborate with the East
—the days of Ribbentrop, Gen-
eral von Seeckt and Bismarck.
“The comparison between
those times and now is reassur-
ing. There is no harm in recall-
ing how vastly different the
situation is at present, if the
exercise does not induce com-
placency about the future. Two-
thirds of Germany is now allied
to the West, and it has been for


DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
26 Chase Road, Turranmrra.
NOW OPEN
AN ISSUE AT PAB OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
41%
12 months
4% . i i i, s 9 months
3|%. iE! . 6 months
3J%. ; 3 months
LONG TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
6i7<
010 &15 years
6%.... 4 to 9 years
5i% ...... 3 years
5% 2 years
Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES,
t
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES VICTORIA QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA WESTERN AUSTRALIA TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to die public to subscribe for the Stock mentioned herein.
lAC-C
years working loyally and fruit-
fully in the economic organisa-
tions of .the free world. The
success of the Organisation for
European Economic Collabora-
tion would have been impossible
if it had not been for the Ger-
mans’ complete change from
autarchy—the economy of pre-
paration for war —to persistent
liberalism and the search for a
Western European Union.
“Fortunately, liberalism and
collaboration have paid the
Germans dividends, and pros-
perity is continually spreading
into the ranks of the working
classes. It is essential for the
Germans to see that freedom
and partnership with the West
are in their interests, and so far
this aim has been largely
achieved, though the West has
yet to prove that it can unite
Germany in freedom. Life in
the proletarian police-State
across the Elbe-Werra-Fulda line
is no advertisement for Com-
munism, and two million Soviet
Zone refugees have ‘voted with
their feet’ in favor of the
Federal Republic.
“So far so good, it may be
said. Western Germany is too
prosperous to feel the pull from
Russia; and it is led by the
greatest German statesman since
Bismarck, who does not follow a
Bismarckian policy. Dr. Aden-
auer has not raised Germany to
a place among the great Powers
by blood and iron or alliance
with Russia, but by single-
minded insistence on collabora-
tion with the West, and by ‘die-,
tating’ patience and ethics to his
countrymen.
“Dr. Adenauer is faced with a
dilemma which can be simply
stated, but not so easily solved.
Neither Dr. Adenauer nor the
Western Powers can accept the
continued division of Germany
as the basis for relaxed inter-
national tension. Co-existence
must not be another word for
the status quo. Still less must it
be camouflage for plans for re-
uniting Germany on Communist
terms. Diplomatic relations
with Moscow must not lead to
recognition of the illegitimate
and hated ‘Democratic Repub-
lic.’
“In this country [Britain], the
fact has been somewhat over-
looked that, as far as Germany
was concerned, the ‘Summit’
conference was in no way a suc-
cess. There is some fear among
Germans that the Western coun-
tries will now settle down with
relief to winding up the cold
war with Russia, and put Ger-
many into the background of
their thoughts. Official assur-
ances have been given from
London and Washington, but
hopes of reunion are dim, and
the ‘Summit’ conference was fol-
lowed by a fresh wave of re-
fugees from the Soviet Zone to
the west.
“In fact, there is no likelihood
that the German status quo will
continue. There are any num-
ber of reasons why the situation
will continually change. And
the time cannot be more than a
few years ahead when Dr. Aden-
auer himself will no longer
direct German affairs. What
happens thereafter is still a mys-
tery, but it cannot be an im-
provement on the present leader-
ship.”
Boom Around the
World
is outrunning supply in country
after country of the West”:
“Almost everywhere, jobs are
abundant. There is an acute
labor-scarcity in Britain and in
Germany. Skilled workers often
are hard to find in the United
States. Labor-shortage, in turn,
is sparking a continued rise in
pay. Higher pay has a way of
translating itself into higher
prices. A threat of higher prices
causes buyers to rush in ahead
of the rise.
“This is the stuff that runaway
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s precautionary moves
against inflation are not symp-
toms of a peculiarly Australian
problem. The U.S., Britain,
Germany and other countries are
facing similar problems in a
greater or less degree and taking
appropriate steps to meet them.
As a “U.S. News and World
Report” survey puts it, “demand
—New York “Herald Tribune"
WELL CHAPERONED
inflation can be made of, unless
restraints are applied. It also is
the stuff that deflation can be
made of, if restraints are delayed
until boom excesses develop and
then are so drastic that an upset
in business follows.
“That line of thinking is being
heard, more and more, around
the world as Governments shape
the first mild restraints on the
boom.
“The U.S. boom keeps gather-
ing strength. Demand for steel,
for cement, for copper, for
aluminium, for some other
materials, is running ahead of
supply. ‘Blackmarkets’ are re-
ported for some products. Here
and there, prices at retail are
going up.
“Yet the cost of living for
the average American is increas-
ing so slightly that the rise is
almost imperceptible. Many
food-products are down in
price. New cars of the 1955-
model-year can be had at big
discounts from quoted prices.
People are able to buy televi-
sion-sets, refrigerators and most
other household products at
prices under those listed by the
manufacturer. If one manufac-
turer’s product is short, there
are other makes in abundant
supply.
“The fact is that inflation-
control in the United States is
regarded as a relatively simple
task. Borrowing of money is
being made a little more diffi-
cult and somewhat more costly.
But borrowed money remains
relatively cheap when compared
with most periods of the past.
There is some restraint also on
the use of credit in buying
stocks. Government is cutting
down on its spending to some
extent as private spending rises.
Here and there, industries are
allocating their products. But
nobody is talking of a need to
increase taxes or to ration goods
or to take really drastic steps to
limit the use of borrowed money.
“Inflation - control in the
United States is to take the form
of mild restraint on private
borrowing, plus moderate reduc-
tions in spending by Govern-
ment.
“Swiss bankers, who tend to
look at world financial affairs
against a broad background,
hold the private view that Gov-
ernment plans in U.S. are related
to a desire to keep activity high
and rising through the election
year 1956. They foresee neither
runaway inflation nor severe
restraints within that period.
“The British problem is dif-
ferent, and concern is mounting.
Incomes are up sharply. Prices
are rising. Wage-increases are
going along with extreme labor-
shortage. The demand of British
people for goods is so heavy that
the country has been unable to
sell goods abroad in the volume
needed to pay for imports that
must be had to satisfy home-
demand. Result is a drain on
gold- and dollar-reserves.
“There is a growing rumor
that the British may bd forced to
devalue their currency or to
impose rigid controls over im-
ports. The Conservative Gov-
ernment, however, will resist
any pressure to devalue the
pound sterling. New import
controls are distasteful. The
effort will be to control inflation
instead by increasing taxes and
ultimately by reducing spending
for defence. These steps will be
aimed at controlling the public’s
ability to buy, at the same time
increasing the supply of goods
and manpower for civilian de-
mand.
“Britain is the real danger-
spot. If events force drastic
action in that country, repercus-
sions will be felt throughout
Western Europe and even in the
United States.
“Germany’s prosperity is real
and strong. In the last year, in-
dustrial output has been in-
creased 16 per cent. Imports
are rising. But supplies of goods
fall short of demand. Skilled
workers are at a premium. Wages
are up.
“If rearmament goes ahead,
new demand will be piled on
top of a present civilian demand
that strains German industry.
Still, officials appear confident
that the boom can be kept in
hand. Credit is being tightened
moderately. Direct controls—
rationing, price-regulation, wage-
controls are not planned.
Prices, in fact, have not shown
any marked rise to date except in
construction.
“The official view in Germany
is that, with expected further
increases in production, a run-
away boom will be prevented
by the play of the market-place.
Rearming will be a slow process.
Non-military construction may
have to be reduced. Govern-
ment spending, except for mili-
tary, probably will be cut back.
“In other countries, as well,
the boom is being watched with
concern.
“Sweden has had a heavy dose
of inflation, with goods short and
prices rising. The Government
has applied restrictions, how-
ever, and now reports that
dangers are subsiding.
“France remains fairly calm.
Prices have been stable for about
three years. Wages are up,
though, and the pressure is on
for further increases. Money in
circulation and bank-deposits
are climbing. A danger-signal
is seen in continuing Budget
deficits. Some fears are ex-
pressed for the franc.
“Canada faces a labor short-
age, although the boom has not
reached the same high level as in
the United States. Mild
restraints are being applied
on the supply of credit. No
further controls are planned
immediately.
“What the world is seeing,
apparently, is a continuing
reaction to war. The war led
to a great increase in the supply
of money. Also, it caused a lag
in construction and in modern-
isation of industry. Now, with
peace in the air, the world is in
a mood to spend, to catch up
on delayed needs and desires.”
Various Voices
Harry Douglass (general-sec-
retary of Britain’s Iron and Steel
Trades Confederation ): “The
vodka parties should blind
neither politicians nor trade-
unionists to the sinister menace
of these movements [Communist
influences]. Their aim is to
undermine and dissipate the
strength of the trade-unions and
to wreck the economy of all
democratically-run countries.
They have achieved no little suc-
cess in this country [Britain] and
the realisation of this by the
public was not without effect at
the last general election. Sup-
port for the Labor movement
from such sources is, indeed, the
kiss of death.”
* * *
Khrushchev: “Anyone who mis-
takes our smile for a withdrawal
from the policies of Marx and
Lenin is making a mistake. Those
who expect this will have to wait
until Easter falls on a Tuesday.”
* * *
U.S. Deputy Under-Secretary
of State: “We are eager to see
tensions relaxed ; we feel it would
be exceedingly dangerous to
relax our vigilance or sub-
stantially to alter programmes of
collective security. We want to
be sure that the recent change
of attitude is not merely an ap-
plication of the classical. Com-
munist manoeuvre known as ‘zig-
zag.’ In pursuing a policy of
reciprocating the present Soviet
attitude and conduct, we do
not intend to sanctify the status
quo, replete as it is with many
international injustices which
should be corrected.”
* * *
Mr. Nehru: “The guns were
[six months ago] all loaded and
fingers were on triggers. Guns
are still loaded but fingers are
not on triggers. Perhaps the big-
gest thing that has evolved in
people’s minds is the realisation
that modern war does not solve
any major problem and that
problems should be approached
peacefully.”
* * *
Dr. P. P. Townend, a senior
lecturer in the University of
Leeds Department of Textile
Industries: “It anyone thinks he
can go to Australia and tell them
something new about develop-
ments in the wool-textile in-
dustry, he is mistaken. The Aus-
tralians are fully aware of the
most recent developments.”


Gilly’s father declared. “Per-
sonally I wouldn’t have a farm
without a few gullies. These flat
farms take too much draining.
Nothing like a gully or two to
put value on a farm.”
“Isn’t that tea-tree growing
along the edge of that cleared
land?” a buyer asked. “Doesn’t
tea-tree only grow on poor soil?”
“Ah yes—but that’s just a bit
along the fringe we never cleared
past. All the rest of the ground
was good wattle and bloodwood
country.”
The swell of pride Gilly and I
felt at this new knowledge of the
farm’s worth was marred but
slightly by the memory of Nick
grubbing out the last remaining
huge tea-tree from the middle of
the farm the year before.
“How’s she in the wet
season?” one of the men asked.
“Does she wash much.”
“Next to nothing,” Gilly’s
father declared. “Pick up all the
ground we lose in a bucket.”
A vision of Gilly’s father
holding a bucket full of soil,
smiling sedately through a
tropical downpour, clouded my
mind.
“Well,” said one of the men,
“what say we walk around her
and have a look?”
Everyone stood up. . .
On the headland Gilly and I
stood watching his father escort
the buyers around the farm. In
the distance we heard his
father’s words of praise as he
foupd new potentials, and drew
them to the buyers’ notice.
“We’re sunk,” Gilly declared.
“They’ll take it for sure.”
Behind us in the garden Nick
snorted. We swung on him.
“What’s up, Nick?” I asked,
sensing emotion on his part at
the coming loss of the farm.
Nick snorted again.
“What you doing, Nick?”
Gilly inquired.
“You blind or something?”
Nick demanded. “Can’t you see
•—l’m, planting a mango-tree.”
Our eyebrows raised in unison.
“What you doing that for?”
Gilly asked.
Nick flung down the shovel
in disgust and shook the small
mango-plant at us.
“Because I like mangoes, of
course—what in the aitch do
you think I’m doing it for —
exercise?”
“But,” calculated Gilly, “they
take years to grow, and we’ll be
hundreds of miles away from
here by then. What’s the use of
planting a tree for someone
else?”
Nick snorted again, and went
back to the planting. We watched
him in wonder. He had finished
when the buyers returned. They
looked very unhappy.
“Well,” said one, “if you’ve
made up your mind, 1 suppose
there’s nothing we can do about
it. Beats me why you got us out
here in the first place, though.”
Gilly’s father shrugged his
shoulders. “I’m sorry about
that,” he apologised.
The buyers looked out at the
farm with longing in their eyes.
“I suppose your answer’s
really final?” one inquired
hopefully.
“Yes,” Gilly’s father declared
adamantly. “She’s not for sale.”
He stomped into the house.
The buyers, walked to their car
and drove away.
“They must have had a row
with the old man about the price
or something,” Gilly decided.
“Row be beggared,” Nick
declared. “It’s not that at all.
The old man got so carried away
telling them how good the farm
was, he ended up convincing
himself she was too good to sell.
It’s easy to see you can’t follow
the old man.”
Gilly and I walked with our
wonder to the stables, and exam-
ined it over two pipes of
banana-leaf. We had just
knocked the ash out of them
against the galvanised-iron wall
when the man with the red
utility and the radiograms drove
up.
“How’s your father today?”
e XT . ~ - ,
he asked of Nick in the garden.
Mr Hog , Nick declare ,
if you cant 1 him a gram
today you never will. Right now
ve/anda looking out at his faTm
thini-inr, 1.,.-, iw,,- „ff 7”
thinking he s better off than an y
’ Australia.’
TTOGAN looked at Nick in ill-
-*-1 concealed alarm hacked
Tso httleHentemtoment
sa^ d £ M r r r -Ho g an” began
G r s ’ fat »« .
Hogans face lit up, and his
WES „
xj Ive come about the g ra m,
u A .
a y atbe F 1 cached in the
dr f^ er fO F a che qv, e - b °° k - .
COU T’ b f beamed-
’ 't b » WCnt ° n ’ Im gomg
t 0 buy l '
Hogan relaxed - T oull never
regret lt? su *’” be said.
GiUy’s father expanded with
the sir.
“Yes,” Hogan continued, “I
can fully recommend our Briar
Radiogram. There’s not another
make on the market can come
anywhere near it.”
j ust a minute,” put in
G jj ly > s father. “Last time you
were h ere you were selling
anot her brand.”
“ oh ’ you mean the Inca ”
said Hogan casually. He became
fidi ,
„ As a matter o£ £actj ,. he ex .
P“ de l r
ro , om or hidden eavesdroppers,
lot'ofTompldnts.
tuke the
Hogan'. C ° me ’ n ° W ' Cgan
“No!” thundered Gilly’s
father. “That’s the finish,
Your Briar might be the best
radio in the world, but that’s
beside the point. I won’t touch
it with a long stick. It’s not the
brand; it’s the principle of the
thing. I would have bought an
Inca even if it wasn’t so hot,
but I won’t buy your Briar. If
y o u thought the Inca was good
last time, you should still think
so. I believe in a man sticking to
his guns. If a thing’s right one
day it must be right the next,
I’ve always stuck to that myself,
and I’ve got no confidence in
anyone who doesn’t do the same,
“If there’s one thing I can’t
stand it’s this chopping and
changing. I always maintain
that a man should make up his
mind aboUt somethin g> and keep
to it good or bad, no matter what
it costs.”.
He looked at Hogan wi(h the
to 2 7°“ ”‘
to get on in life, me boy, he
devTop
&o 8 g £ °° ***
hais'and p^es^Ld"SaTked
and thoughtfully down the
headland to the promise of
minah-bird-shooting at the
bridge by the cutting. Hogan
and his red utility passed us by
the bridge. His passing brought
recollection.
“Your father didn’t like the
idea of him changing those
radiogram brands, did he?” I
asked listlessly.
“No,” Gilly said without
enthusiasm. He did not.
Loyally I explored my mind
in search of a spark of self-
righteousness to bring forward
to aid and abet the indignity of
his father. I found none. Over
the past few weeks I had joined
Gilly and his father in so many
communions of emotion, in
wrath, rebellion, self-pity,
righteousness and indignity, that
now I had nothing more to
offer. We sat down carefully on
the rough planks of the br f dge .
. GUly’s face mirrored his feel-
mgS as he, too, searched
torlghhis *008^"“^
d ° Ub '- ’ -u hh.
1 wonder aboUt the
u ' , ~ . , f t
H * g a zed sadly*d tl
m( J. untain l s ’ pai " ted l ma ™;
and royal purple by the
su f’ „ . .
“Yes,” he went on slowly,
“sometimes, I, just canT make
him out - ;
He spat thoughtfully into the
darkening water,
“You know,” he decided,
“sometimes, I think he’s a bit of
a bloody liar. . .
which, wittingly or unwittingly,
he might have given information
to any Communist. In the light
of the lack of specific details
about the information allegedly
given by Throssell to “Klod,”
save that Moscow Centre re-
garded it as “important and
valuable,” the commissioners,
especially in the face of Thros-
sell’s denial, felt that “it would
be wrong to hold that he had
been a member of the ‘Klod’
group or that he had wittingly
given any information.”
They considered, however,
that die reason for Moscow’s
interest in him after his return
from Brazil was to be found in
his association with Com-
munists and their sympathisers.
Throssell himself said he had
never been a member of the
party. But his mother, with
whom he lived in Canberra
prior to his second marriage,
was “reputed to be a prominent
Communist.” His wife
another graduate in Arts of
Melbourne University had
been a member of the Uni-
versity branch of the Com-
munist party, and though she
allowed her membership later to
lapse she retained both her
beliefs, “with reservations,” and
also her Communist associa-
tions, being before her marriage
a regular visitor to the flat of
a Miss Beeby (correspondent of
the “Tribune”), where Com-
munists or Communist sym-
pathisers congregated.
Both she and Throssell visited
the home of Rose in Can-
berra. Throssell was a close
friend of J. F. Hill, E. F. Hill’s
brother, and also knew Milner,
the commissioners remarked.
During his examination the fol-
lowing passage took place:
PHILP, J.: So far as I can see,
what you are saying: is that,
although you are a member of the
staff of the Department of External
Affairs, it is of no interest to you
whether the people you meet or
associate with are Communists or
not Communists.
WITNESS: I do not consider it
my concern....l can only say it
seems to me to be their own busi-
ness.
The commissioners thought
that Throssell might have let
drop information which he him-
self did not regard as im-
portant, but which was regarded
as important by a Communist
group which included “Klod,”
who passed it to Moscow. But
they thought there was no doubt
that Moscow regarded Throssell
as having been “a source of
valuable information,” and that
they wanted him cultivated by
Petrov and Kislytsin (the secre-
tary elected to escort Mrs.
Petrov home to Moscow).
Throssell’s solicitor when he
appeared before the commis-
sion was Miss Jollie-Smith, a
member of the foundation
executive of the Communist
party of Australia.
Clayton’s Job
On the whole, Clayton
appeared to the commissioners
an important “functionary”—
which in Communist jargon
means paid officer —of the Com-
munist party. “We find his
name, through the letter ‘K,’ or
the code-name ‘Klod,’ linked
with no fewer than 19 people in
M.V.D. communications, eight
“For Petes sake , Eth , keep away from here in that
damned fur-coat!”
of whom were at one time and
another officers of the External
Affairs Department. And:
From all the material which we
have examined we are satisfied that,
as Petrov said in his statement of
April 3, 1954, “between 1945 and
1948 there was a very serious situa-
tion in AustraUa in the Department
of External Affairs,” and that there
were serious leakages of informa-
tion from that department to the
M.V.D. We believe that Clayton,
who bore the code-name “Klod,”
was the principal channel through
which it was supplied.
Clayton went into smoke
when the commission began to
sit, and all efforts to find him
failed for several months. He
seemed to have got out of the
party organisation about the
time the Security Department
was reorganised in 1951.
Sharkey, Dixon and Hughes,
heads of the party, admitted in
the box having had “social” con-
tacts with him as late as 1953.
On March 4, 1955, when the
commission had been sitting
about nine months, Clayton sud-
denly appeared and the com-
missioners had “no doubt he
deliberately hid himself, or was
hidden, in order to avoid appear-
ing before us until it was con-
fidently felt that all the evidence
concerning him had been given
and he had full opportunity of
shaping his story to meet it.”
He said that he had heard over
the air a suggestion that he was
connected with Soviet espionage
and that he had therefore come
to clear his name.
“In this,” wrote the commis-
sioners, “he signally failed.”
They wrote: “Instead [of
straight answers], we were met
with evasions, equivocations,
refusals to answer questions and
lies.” He refused to say where
he had been since 1951, assert-
ing that he had given up his
work with the Communist party
because of ill-health. And the
whole tale of his operations
during the period when he was
supposed to be the M.V.D.’s spy-
master was one of false
false transactions,
elusive movement, chicanery and
deceit.
Outside his operations other
contacts between Communists
and the External Affairs Depart-
ment were brought to light.
There was a man, F. J. Maclean,
who was too ill to come to give
evidence. He had been recruited
by Dr. Evatt from among a
group of journalists on an elec-
tion-tour ; he had a code-name
and was referred to in the Mos-
cow letters as being in the
Political Intelligence section of
the department. He was
described by Sadovnikov as
having access to secret docu-
ments. The Embassy made a
second note about “increasing
his activities.” He had originally
been engaged as a temporary
First Secretary “to work on
documentation and assembly of
data for the Minister.”
Maclean made a statement
that he knew Allan Dalziel, Dr.
Evatt’s private-secretary, very
well. He admitted that while a
journalist he had met Nosov
several times and had visited his
flat, but he denied having given
any information or having dis-
cussed anything serious with
the Russians. He said he had
been a member of the Com-
munist party very briefly about
1942-43, when Communism was
popular. After the Federal elec-
tions of 1946 he became Dr.
Evatt’s press-liaison man and
worked in. the Political Intelli-
gence Department, where he
had access to secret documents.
He ranked as First Secretary. He
was “always pleasant to the
Russians, although he always
regarded them with a certain
amount of suspicion.”
There was also Miss E. M.
Newbigin, who was closely asso-
ciated with a Communist group
in Canberra, especially Miss
Beeby, the “Tribune” corre-
spondent, to whom she let
her flat. She was brought
from the War Crimes Division
to reorganise the registry
of documents in the Ex-
ternal Affairs Department in
1945 and afterwards was brought
to Sydney to reorganise the
registry there, housed in the De-
partment of Investigation. She
resigned in 1946 and almost
immediately afterwards joined
the Communist party and be-
came secretary of a branch.
Also there were others —not
to mention the persons above
suspicion, including a chief of
protocol, whom the Russians set
out with great diligence to en-
snare or trap. There was one
whose bedroom had apparently
been thoroughly gone through
while he was on duty in Moscow.
Sieving of employees does not
seem to have been troubled
about by the External Affairs
Department during the rule of
the Labor Government while
Dr. Evatt was Minister. And it
can be taken for granted that
the evidence did not cover all
the actualities. The commission
\yas dependent entirely for basic
clues on the limited number of
papers which Petrov had
snatched up when he left the
Embassy and on a Security
Service whose experience as an
effective body did not reach
behind, 1951.
Moreover, the commission
was concerned only with the
activities of spies and not with
those of persons whose activities
in the promotion of the “cold
war” against the Australian
people was restricted to the use
of “such weapons as propa-
ganda, the fomenting of indus-
trial, . political, social and moral
unrest.”
[A further article will deal with
the commission’s report on the
M.V.D.’s dealings with foreign
diplomats and others.]


Missing Friend
WOULD DAVID WILLIAM HENRY
FEARN, a son of WALTER FEARN and
MARIEA FEARN, nee McINTOSH, who
was bom at Carlton, Victoria, in 1915,
or any person knowing his whereabouts,
please ''ommunicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria.
Divorce Notice
TO K&iTH STEVENS sometime of Big
Bell W.A. address now unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife DORIS STEVENS
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of
desertion by you for a continuous period
of three (3) years or more IF YOU
DESIRE TO DEFEND such proceedings
you must file your defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth Western Australia within
forty (40) clear days from the date of
this publication IN DEFAULT of your so
doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence
DATED this 30th day of September, 1955.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. Note:
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of the
said KEITH STEVENS is specially re-
quested to inform him of the contents
of this notice. WHEATLEY & SONS,
of 49 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, in
the State of Western Australia, Soli-
citors for the Plaintiff.
s
mt
.
i
'
* *
Two ways of looking at the new
Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe Utility
From the point of view of good looks there’s nothing smarter on the road
than the new Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe Utility. All the brilliant style touches
of the new Vauxhall saloons are retained. There’s seating for three in
luxurious comfort-and sure, safe handling is assured with Vauxhall ‘balanced-
ride’ suspension and new flexible coupled steering.
On the other hand, the spacious (57#" x 80") Vauxhall load compartment,
sturdy chassis frame with heavy-duty springing and rugged 8" diameter clutch
are designed to handle reliably all the jobs you expect a good Utility to do.
Powered by the famous 6-cylinder 23.44 h.p. O.H.V. Velox engine of ‘over-
square’ design, the new Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe Utility offers all-round engin-
eering worth and outstanding utility value.
See the hew Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe Utility at your Vaqxhall dealers now.
NEW front end styling with a
new, lower bonnet silhouette, im-
proves vision.
NEW interior Comfort and
Beauty with an entirely new instru-
ment panel, restyled door trim.
NEW electrical system control
. . . ‘interruptor’ unit prevents com-
plete light failure.
NEW longer life piston rings.
The top and second ring are now
thicker for better oil control.
10CWT.
COUPE
★ Ask about G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase arrangements and the
built-for-Vauxhall ‘Air Chief Car Radio.
★ Vauxhall 10-cwt. Coupe-Utility is priced at £950 plus Sales Tax.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL HOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
W4/24
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
* > To buy J. D. Fitzgerald’s Rise of
the Labour Party (1920), H. L. Hall’s
Victoria’s Part in the Australian
Federal Movement (1931), E. M.
Hunt’s American Precedents in Aus-
tralian Federation (1930), L. C.
Jauncey’s The Story of Conscription
in Australia (1935), W. R. Mac-
Laurin’s Economic Planning in Aus-
tralia, 1929-31 (1937), and K. O.
Warner’s Problems of Australian
Federalism (1933). — 6170.
To buy Lloyd Ross’s William Lane
(1935), V. Gordon Childe’s How
Labour Governs (1923), H. B.
Higgins’s A New Province for Law
and Order (1929), George Black’s
History of the N.S.W. Labour
Party (1910), V. S. Clark’s The
Labour Movement in Australasia
(1906), C. H. Curry’s Politics and
Parties in Australia (1927), and F. W.
Eggleston’s State Socialism in Vic-
toria (1932). —6171.
To buy James McAuley’s Under
Aldebaran and Robert Lowell’s
Collected Poems .—6173.
Words of verse or song begin-
ning:—
Heart to heart and hand to hand
Beneath the Southern Cross wd stand
And shout God bless our glorious land.
Australia! Australia 1
—6177.
To buy copy of The Sphinx of
Eaglehawk: A Tale of Old Bendigo,
by Rolf Boldrewood. —6178.
Words of verse known as “Hard
Tack,” about a shearer who had to
shear a few sheep on a vineyard at
Yenda and took six weeks to do
it—6l79.
Information Sought
Best method of cleaning cement,
plaster, and soot- and smoke-marks
from bricks?
Mortar or plaster may be cleaned -
off the face of brickwork with a one-
to-six solution of spirits-of-salts in
water. Apply the solution with a
stiff brush and, if necessary, remove
thick spots of mortar or plaster by
rubbing with a small piece of brick
or stone. Immediately after the
application of the solution brush the
surface over liberally with clean
water. Soot- and smoke-stains may
be removed to some extent by first
scraping off all surface-deposits and
then scrubbing well with a solution
of washing-powder and water. Again,
wash surface well with clean water.
* * * *
Why does home-cooked asparagus
differ so from the tinned variety?
Mine is shrunken, bleached and
soggy. Is there any special recipe ?
Commercial canners use bleaching-
and steaming-plants which produce
results beyond those of the home-
cook; but try this recipe: Cut the
stalks to an even length, removing
the hard bit at the bottom; scrape
the white portion downwards until
clean; tie all in small bundles with
clean white thread; stand them up-
right in a saucepan, tips above the
water. The water should first be
boiling, and may contain a squeeze
of lemon-juice. Cook gently for
20min. to 30min. with the lid on;
try with a fine knitting-needle—not
a fork. Lift out carefully, drain
well, put on a slice of toast in dish
or into a special asparagus-dish.
Serve oiled butter mixed with a few
drops of lemon-juice in separate con-
tainer, preferably a tiny jug for each
person. (Asparagus grown too fast
with water and too much fertiliser
may tend to become soggy and weak
for cooking.)
* * * *
Some information on old-age
pension-scheme in New Zealand ? Is
there a means-test ? How long may
a pensioner remain out of the
country and still draw a pension ?
Age-benefits are payable in N.Z.
at age 60 to persons residentially
qualified, income and property within
the limits laid down by the legisla-
tion. The residential qualification is
that where an applicant was not a
resident of N.Z. on March 15, 1938,
he is required to have resided in
N.Z. for a period of not less than
20 years. Agreeifient between N.Z.
and Australia allows residence in the
one country to be treated as residence
in the other; but where these pro-
visions are invoked, the qualifying
age in N.Z. is males 65, females 60.
The present rate of age-benefit for a
single person is £3 10s., for a married
couple, £7 a week. There is a means-
test, the maximum rate of benefit
being reduced by £1 for each com-
plete £1 of income in excess of £7B
a year and by £1 for each complete
£l5 of property in excess of £5OO for
a single person and £lOOO for a
married couple. The Social Security
Act, 1938, provides that where a
person receiving a benefit leaves
N.Z. he may remain absent for up to
five years without having to re-
qualify on his return. However, the
N.Z.-Australia agreement will apply
here. Any further information from
the Chairman of the Social Services
Department, Private Bag, Wellington,
C.l, N,Z.
* * * *
(1) What system is followed in
compiling the list of the top 100
candidates in the N. S. Wales Leaving
Certficate ? Do honors and ordinary
papers rank equally? (2) Is an
average-basis adopted? (3) Is there
any advantage one way or the other
between the student who takes five
subjects and three honors and the one
who takes six subjects and two
honors ?
(1) The first 100 candidates in the
N. S. Wales Leaving Certificate are
decided' on the aggregate marks
obtained in all papers (i.e., both pass
and honors). (2) An average-basis is
not adopted. (3) There is no
advantage.
* * * *
Some information on the tragedy
in which aviators Anderson and
Hitchcock lost their lives?
Australian aviators K. Anderson
and R. S. Hitchcock lost their lives
while searching for Squadron-Leader
Charles Kingsford-Smith, who, in
company with Flight-Lieutenant
C. P. Ulm, wireless-pperator T. G.
McWilliams and navigator H. Litch-
field, had made a forced-landing in
their Southern Cross 30 miles south
of Port George on the Kimberley
coast, not far from the Drysdale
Mission. The bodies of Anderson
and Hitchcock were found on April
21, 1929, beside their aircraft, the
Kookaburra (a Westland Widgeon
monoplane), 80 miles north-west of
Powell's Creek. A “diary’’-note
inscribed on the fuselage of the air-
craft by Anderson gave a brief record
of the tragedy: both died from
thirst, hunger and exposure; Hitch-
cock died first, and Anderson con-
trived to bury him in a shallow grave
beside the aircraft; some days later
Anderson died. The Kookaburra
had been forced down when the
engine had failed through one of the
push - rods becoming displaced.
Though the plane was not damaged
in landing and the engine-fault was
soon repaired, the airmen were unable
to take-off because of thick scrub.
First news of the tragedy came from
Captain Lester Brain (then a Qantas
pilot and now general-manager of
De Havilland Aircraft Co., Banks-
town, N.S.W.), who, flying a DH6I
Canberra, was one of a number of
air-searchers. A ground-party from
Wave Hill later brought out the
bodies. The aircraft was left to
disintegrate.
* * * »
What is the difference in the duties,
in relation to government, of British
Crown and U.S. President ?
Briefly, in principle the powers of
government in the British Common-
wealth are vested in the monarch; in
practice the monarch is outside
politics. “Parliament,” to the Con-
stitutional lawyer, is “the Queen in
Parliament,” the Queen being an
integral part of the legislature.
Nowadays, however, the Queen sits
in Parliament only once a year. Royal
assent to bills is necessary, but purely
formal, and if a bill has been passed
by both Houses of Parliament it
becomes law. Still, the Queen is not
a mere figurehead: “She does not
steer the ship, but she has to make
certain that there is a man at the
wheel” (Sir Ivor Jennings, The
Queens Government). The U.S.
President, on the other hand, is the
executive; he is independent of the
legislature, and able to resist it. He
is empowered to assess and collect
taxes, declare war, raise and main-
tain an army. “He is the sole organ
of the nation in its external relations,
and its sole representative with
foreign nations. While the Senate
must advise and consent to any
treaty, the President has exclusive
initiative in their negotiation” (George
Fort Milton, The Use of Presidential
Power). He cannot initiate laws,
except by recommendation, and may
veto any bill passed by Congress (in
certain conditions, his veto may be
overruled). Responsibility to the
people rests with the President,
except where Congress fails to pass
the laws he requests or to supply the
money needed to implement his
policy. (In Britain, the Ministry,
which is in fact the executive, is
responsible, through Parliament, to
the people.)
Brief Answers
F.S.C.: The relevant quotation
appears on page 77 (not page 136) of
our Outline of History. H. G. Wells,
though trained in biology, was never
much more than a gifted amateur in
science; this opinion of his certainly
seems a bit-raw. Worth noting that
Wells doesn’t mention it in his
collaborated work The Science of
Life, where one would expect him to
repeat it. Still, most of the men in
the region probably are tall
C.H.C.: The final meeting of. the
League of Nations Assembly was
held on April 8, 1946. By this time
the United Nations Organisation had
already replaced it; Uno has since
taken over the league’s material assets
and assumed its political and techni-
cal functions P. 8.: T.A.A. began
operations in 1946.. In 1949-50 it
made a profit of £214,818 and in
1950-51 £205,799. In December,
1952, the Civil Aviation Agreement
Act was passed by Federal Parliament
to ensure, among other things, that
competition between A.N. A. and
T.A.A. would henceforth be fair and
without favor. (Beforehand, for
instance, T.A.A. had not been subject
to income tax.) R.J.A.: The Syd-
ney representative for Robert Hale,
Ltd., is Hicks, Smith and Sons Pty.,
Ltd., Macdonnell House, 321 Pitt-
street, Sydney F.McA.: Write to
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., at either
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, or 66
Elizabcth-street, Melbourne.... F.F.:
Australian agents for British Schering,
Ltd., London, are Young and
Fennell Pty., Ltd., 268 Kent-street,
Sydney F.McL.: Write George G.
Harrap and Co., Ltd., 182 Fligh
Holborn, London, W.C.I
R.W.D.: C. W. Stainsfield’s The
Tradesmen's Tokens of the Aus-
tralasian Colonies was published in
1888, and sells in secondhand-
bookshops at about a guinea
A. 8.: Methylpentynol is marketed
in Australia, both in capsule form
and as an elixir, under the trade-
mark “Oblivon,” by Young and
Fennell Pty., Ltd., 268 Kent-street,
Sydney P. 8.: The words of
“Parson Hogg” and “Blue Muslin”
are given in Songs of the West, edited
by Baring Gould and Fleetwood
Sheppard. This collection also con-
tains the words of “Green Broom,”
another version of which will be
found in Folk Songs from Somerset,
edited by Cecil Sharp J.K.R.:
Lacrosse, national ball-game of
Canada, derives its name from the
resemblance of the curved, netted
stick, with which the game is played,
to a bishop’s crosier A.P.: The
first meeting of the South-East Asia
Collective Defence Treaty Organisa-
tion- was held in the Throne Room
of the Assembly Hall at Bangkok
from February 23-25 H.A.K.:
The issue in Switzerland of a public
loan to the Federal Government,
announced on February 4, was for
60,000,000 Swiss francs (approxi-
mately £6,000,000); it was the second
such loan. The new loan is for 15
years, with an option to repay wholly
or in part after 10 years, the interest-
rate being 3£ p.c., the tissue-price
99£ p.c. As previously, certain Swiss
taxes connected with the issue and
servicing of the loan are payable by
the Federal Government. The loan
has been approved by the Australian
Loan Council 8.M.: Australian
jockey Frank Wootton was four times
winner of the English riding cham-
pionship. He rode 882 winners from
3866 mounts in England L.F.: (1)
A record total output of 19,757,000
tons of black coal was produced in
Australia in 1954. This exceeded the
1953 figure by 1,137,000 tons. (2)
All States, except Victoria, achieved
greater total output. (3) N. S. Wales
had a record total output of
15,083,000 tons. (4) Production by
open-cut decreased slightly S.M.:
Write the Taxpayers’ Association of
Victoria, Collins House, 360 Collins-
street, Melbourne W.D.: Write
Gordon R. Pittaway, Box 28, 230
Collins-street, Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
P.N.: We bolted and barred our
doors against your visitor from
Mars L.S.: That ancient arrives
without fail about this time every
year W.C.J.: Didn’t fancy the
little girl who wanted to turn her
brother into a toad T.C.D.: “It
was suggested to me that I try my
hand professionally.” Suggest you
apply for reinstatement as an
amateur V.J.: Immediately
bought a single ticket for poem
crying “Take me to the bushlands,
to the country that I know”
H.R.G.: That gaunt gum has been
standing on the hilltop like a sentinel
for years and years end years
R.S.F.: If ever there was such an
indulgent station-manager we’ll eat
his riding-boots F.8.A.: Welcome
to our tried old friend the jackeroo
who turns out to be the long-lost
heir to a peerage N.H.: “The
Old Bush Coach” is rumbling along
home... .A.N.: The opening stanza
will be sufficient, thank you:
She said, “Oh, Harry, will you be true?”
Said he, “To my darling wife, not you! ”
The jilted girl did then scream and shout
Of the wrong done by an amorous lout.
F.E.P.: Impossible to tell
whether sundowner in your verse was
carrying a swag or a dead mate
W.T.C.: You’ll need better powder
than that to blast your way into these
pages R.G.G.: Welcomed the
henpecked husband who ran off with
the woman next door as an old, old
friend T.S.: “Are these of any
use?” Only as examples of how not
to write a yarn K.S.: It swings
along well enough, but it’s hackneyed
and sentimental M.C.8.: Four
lines from “The Eternal Triangle”:—
I laugh with glee, my dear, how
Your poor husband tries
To find out what we’re doing now
By shadowing us with his spies.
W.A.: Still trying to fathom who
was the sleuth, who was the
murderer and who was his victim
8.W.V.: Shorten, clarify, polish and
resubmit H.M.: “Aunt Matilda’s
Indiscretion” was frowned upon by
the Religious Editor D.N.: For
heaven’s'sake stop sending in daily
instalments of that serial H.R.F.:
“When the Sea Gives Up Its Dead”
the basket claims its own J.W.:
You’ve been reading too many horror-
magazines C.S.D.: “I have several
other yarns about the same subject.”
We have 953,275 about the same
subject in the office morgue
G.T.: The curate at Wombat Greek
steals the church funds, goes on a
spree at Hogan’s pub, knocks out
the local bully, and takes Hogan’s
barmaid as his de-facto wife. Out.
C.N.K.: Ghosts, murders,
doubloons hidden in the old farm-
house! What are you giving us?
....D.H.: Your confidence-man
couldn’t talk his way into a free
sideshow L.E.: Is that all you can
do with a shipwreck? L.8.A.:
Sorry to hear that you were jilted by
Sadie; sorrier still to read your
verse C.L.: Fair, but don’t think
even the missing last page could
turn it in your favor... .EJ.O’B.:
They’d probably earn him good
marks in the classroom, but they’re
no use beyond that B.N.S. (Mel-
bourne): Only a Yarrasider could be
so wrong about the location of the
Sydney Harbor Bridge:—
We walked the Bridge with many a song
Full length from Lavender Bay to Benne-
long.
We walked it home after a happy day
Full length from Bennelong to Lavender
Bay.
J.F.: One or two neat character-
studies, but generally wearisome
E.M.S.: Muddled.... R.P.: Too
slight.


HITS
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK tor Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
T
m
. **., , vi' »
*xjs> \i. «"
PI
4 '"'* . j rt *
* '* I * W<l?*@V*T j
?■■:
j 4aP* > #l , » « ' >
__
#**:# H
' JL? 'wj
;• ',,
m u
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SHEEP AT MELBOURNE
A BIG entry of Dorset Horns,
representing four States, led
one of the classiest exhibitions
ever to appear at Melbourne
Royal Show.
Border Leicesters, Southdowns,
Ryelands and Romneys were all
well represented, and there were
good entries of Corriedales and
Cheviots. There was only little
competition among the English
Leicesters, Suffolks, Shropshires
and Dorset Downs.
Judges were almost unanimous
that this year’s exhibits were
the best they had seen in Mel-
bourne. In most breeds, com-
petition was very even with little
or no “tail” in the classes.
An outstanding feature was
the good performance of young
sheep. Ip two breeds, cham-
pions were selected from the
pen-classes. In general, ewes
were better than rams.
In contrast to the previous
Thursday, when cattle-judging
was almost washed out in a
downpour, conditions were ex-
cellent for judges, exhibitors
and the crowded ringsides of
spectators who followed awards
keenly throughout the day.
The Royal Agricultural
Society deserves high praise for
the way in which this year’s con-
tests were staged in grassy rings
with ample facilities for on-
lookers. This long-overdue in-
novation was a huge success.
Although South Australia took
the honors of the day among
the 231 Dorset Horns, Victoria
(ram championship), N.S.W.
(ewe championship) and Tas-
mania (ewe reserve-champion-
ship) were all represented among
the major awards.
G. R. M. Smith, who judged
the rams, said that they were the
best he had seen “right down the
line” at any show in Australia.
In the even line-ups, he noticed
excellent toplines and shoulder-
settings and particularly good
fleshing around the hindquarters.
There was a little too much
wastage in the legs of some
entries and a slight lack of style
in others.
The champion ram, exhibited
by K. G. Luke, of Romsey (Vic.),
was hard to fault, especially in
view of its age and service. It
displayed a good head, excellent
bone, even top and underlines,
and good balance and fleshing
in the twist.
A very close contest for the
reserve-championship was won
by a shorn 2-tooth entered by
W. J. Dawkins Newbold, Ltd.,
of Gawler River (S.A.). Its
conformation and extra-meat-
producing potentialities won the
award.
Allen Day, of Alma (SAT
said he had never judged a
better lot of Dorset Horn ewes.
The champion, bred by A.
Taylor, of Cudal (N.S.W.), won
a close contest from W. and E.
Roberts Thomson’s (Table
Cape, Tas.) ewe. The winner
had a beautiful head and was
more mature than Roberts
Thomson’s reserve - champion.
The yearling-ewe class was out-
standing, said Mr. Day.
Other leading breeders among
the Dorsets included W. S.
Martin and Sons, of Sandy Creek
(S.A.), C. M. Hart and Co., of
Two Wells (S.A.) and J. A.
Thomas, of Mulwala (N.S.W.).
George Starritt, of North
Mooroopna (Vic.) —well-known
breeder of Border Leicesters,
Southdowns and Shorthorns and
father of Ray, who judged the
Southdowns said that the
Border Leicester rams which
A. Facey and Sons’ ( Millicent, S. A.) champion Ayrshire bull, Glengowrie Baron Willie 2, at
Melbourne Royal Show.
came before him were remark-
ably well grown and very well
prepared for the ring. There was
surprisingly little “tail” and the
young classes were particularly
good.
He awarded the championship
to G. F. E. Hosking’s (Kerang,
Vic.) under-2|-year-old ram,
which was very low and thick-
set. It had an excellent carcass
and was denser in the wool than
the reserve-champion, exhibited
by Roy King and his son John,
of Warracknabeal (Vic.);
which had an excellent frame
and carcass qualities. It was
better behind the shoulder than
a ram which pressed it closely
for the honor.
Ewes were judged by C. Squire,
of Cowra (N.S.W.), who was
particularly pleased with the
young ewes. He found it very
hard to pick the winners of the
class for pairs of young ewes.
Mouths were much better than
he had seen when he judged in
Melbourne two years ago.
The champion ewe, exhibited
by Wilson G. J. Beer and Sons,
of Nanneella South (Vic.), had
a pair of twins at foot. It
handled particularly well, was
low-set, and had good length
and depth, a good head and a
heavy fleece of typical Border
Leicester ewe’s wool. Its better
back and covering gave it the
edge on Mr. Hosking’s reserve-
champion, which, however, had
the most typey fleece among the
Border Leicester ewes.
R. R. King and Son’s reserve-
champion ram is a son of their
ram which won the champion-
ship two years ago.
A. J. McLachlan, of South
Morang (Vic.), and W. A- Jones,
of Geelong (Vic.), won blue
ribbons in the novice classes.
G. R. Hall, of Moola (N.S.W.),
had to withdraw his entries
because of floods.
Southdowns showed a wel-
come return to popularity in an
entry of 134. The judge, Ray
Starritt, found the quality to
be very good and even. In
most classes, any of six sheep
would be worthy of a first prize
at most shows, he said.
The judge found a ram of his
own breeding—now owned by
C. H. Hawkins and Son of Shep-
parton —in the line-up for the
championship. He called in
George King, of Scott’s Creek
(Vic.), to make the award. Mr.
King finally gave it to the
Starritt-bred ram: a solid,
squarely set animal, with a lot
of length and a good fleece and
head.
The reserve - champion,
paraded by R. J. Heazlewood,
of Whitemore (Tas.), was very
well fleshed and balanced. It
was stylish and paraded well.
Hawkins and Son completed
a double by capturing the ewe
with a ewe which,
although heavy in lamb, was full
of quality and had a typey fleece.
It could have been a little better
behind., but had enough quality
and bloom to defeat the reserve-
champion, exhibited by Mrs.
Kinsella and her Comely Banks
Stud, of Cora Lynn (Vic.). The
reserve-champion had two
lambs at foot: it had a good
head, plenty of length and
handled very well.
Others to win blue-ribbons in-
cluded E. W. Ham and Son, of
Goorambat (Vic.), F. H. Bad-
cock and Son, of Hagley (Tas.),
W. S. Hogarth and Son, of
Western Junction (Tas.), R. A.
Hughes, of Longford (Tas.), Jim
Mclntosh, of Nar Nar Goon
(Vic.), and Miss Lyla McLean,
of Scott’s Creek (Vic.).
Frank Hancock, of Warrack-
nabeal (Vic.), who won the recent
Australian lamb-carcass contest,
was prominent in several classes.
Ryelands displayed continued
progress and popularity in well-
filled classes throughout the day.
In general, ewes were better than
rams. Their type was more even
and fleeces were better than in the
rams, which tended to looseness
indicative of poor fleshing. Some
young sheep were weak in the
hocks.
The champion ram, bred and
exhibited by John Mclntosh, of
Merrigum (Vic.), doyen of Rye-
land breeders in Australia, was
a beautiful aged sire with a good
head, low-set and square, and
with typical sire’s fleece.
J. Lilford, of Merrigum (Vic.),
who judged the Ryelands, pre-
dicted a great future for
the young reserve-champion,
paraded by Robert Alston, of St.
Germain’s (Vic.). Although not
in top condition, Keith Drum-
mond’s (Wodonga, Vic.F'cham-
pion ewe was a lovely breeding-
type which finished out well right
over the tail.
In the judge’s words, the
reserve-champion, entered by
Messrs. M. and T. Paternoster,
of Furaer (S.A.), was “young,
small, tidy, and sweet.” Other
winners (all Vic.) of classes
included D, Wadelton, of Gir-
garre, A. F. Tyack, of Yalca
South, Brian Whiteley, of Paken-
ham, and Mrs. lan Blyth, of
Rosebud, who won both novice
classes.
Romney Marsh competition
suffered by the absence of Ivor
Manton’s team, which had a
long and successful show-season
early in the year. Nevertheless,
C. R. Rundle, of Salisbury (S.A.),
who judged, was very pleased
to find that breeders were settling
on such a good commercial type.
Several teams showed signs
of the wet winter and lacked
show-condition. Some of the
younger sheep lacked develop-
ment as well. The championships
went, with a swag of major
awards, to Howard Yelland, of
Newlyn (Vic,). His champion
ewe was the outstanding exhibit
of the breed. It was exceptionally
large-framed and well-balanced,
and had a very heavy fleece of
strong bold wool with a very
thick lock.
Competition was weaker
among the rams. The reserve-
champion, a hogget, showed a lot
of promise. K. F. Dureau, of
Melbourne, and R. H. Meaklim,
of Mooroopna (Vic.), were the
most successful of the other
breeders.
Corriedale rams showed a
slight improvement and evenness
over previous exhibitions at
Melbourne Royal. Conforma-
tion was good, and entries carried
mainly strong wool of good
sire’s character.
The champion ram, selected
by R. W. Pettitt, of Geelong, was
bred and exhibited by R. H. R.
Baker, of Baringhup. Its fleece
was more stylish than the cover v
ing on the older reserve-cham-
pion from the same stud.
There was a “tail” in some
small-owners’ classes, in which
there is plenty of room for im-
provement in preparation—espe-
cially in feeding.
In a very close contest, H. P.
Herman’s (Rosebud) larger and
more even ewe won the cham-
pionship from Mr. Baker’s
slightly younger entry. Arch E.
Mclntosh, of Ellam, had several
successes with his young ewes.
J. E. Broadbent, of Harcourt,
was most successful of the novice
entrants.
Cheviots had a well-put-
together entry of 50 sheep, from
which championships were dis-
tributed evenly between J. H.
and D. R. Myers, of Sunshine
(champion ram), John Lyne, of
Powranna, Tas. (reserve-cham-
pion ram), R. M. and E. K.
Metherall, of Tooradin (cham-
pion ewe), and Miss Norma
Tailford, of Romsey (reserve-
champion ewe).
John Lyne won the Cheviot
Breeders’ Plate for the most suc-
cessful exhibitor.
English Leicester competitions
were a two-way struggle
between Williamson Bros., of
Carisbrook (Vic.), who won all
three of the major awards, and
lan Morrish, of Kingston (Vic.),
who paraded the reserve-cham-
pion ewe.
The reserve-champion ram
was from a pen-class. Both
champions displayed good con-
formation, fleshing, and fleece-
qualities.
Among the Suffolks, Richard
Shipp, of Kerang (Vic.), had the
better of his old rival Stan Porter,
of Orford (Vic.), whose only
major win was the ewe reserve-
championship.
J. J. Christie, of Byaduk (Vic.),
and E. W. Ham and Son, of
Goorambat (Vic.), were again
the only exhibitors of Lincolns
and Shropshires respectively.
Walter Turnbull and Sons, of
Wedderburn (Vic.), exhibited
two very well grown Dorset
Downs, which were adjudged
worthy of championships.
DIDGEROO.
Guernseys at
Melbourne
“Lowana”: Because of the
huge entry of dairy-cattle at Mel-
bourne Royal Show, the 231
Guernseys were judged later
than the rest.
Miss I. K. Hearn, of Rochester


Australian Broadcasting Commission
presents
"THE KEYLINE PLAN-
WILL IT PAY 7"
A Discussion In The Series
“THE LAND AND ITS PEOPLE”
Chairman :
John Douglass, Director of Rural Broadcasts.
Panel:
P. A. Yeomans, President, Keyline Foundation.
W. R. McKerihan, President, Rural Bank of N.S.W.
J. Breakwell, M.Sc.Agr., Leading Pastures Advisor,
Friday, 14th October-8.15 p.m. (A.E.T.)
2BL, 3LO, 4QR, SAN, 6WN, 7ZR
and Regional Stations
$
SEPTIC TANKS
eNiHsnoyi
3HJ.VD
Ildr.
WELL
LININGS
□
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE,
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOBS A MAN'S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, eto.
The attach-
ment illus-
trated ie the
World-famous
“FARMERS ’
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you :
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1611.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 5561.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’EAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagb. St., Sydney.
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
-4
n—i
. . .
■
ii
%
si
Ike
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed Into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
VIO.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
W.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne ;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
N. Guinea : Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
Loading is *»*¥“
Slackingjsrast.
to
and jf's all done wif/i ONE
Mobilco machine - - - -
If you had all the time in the world to get your hay
in ... if you had labour to spare you wouldn't need
to worry about machines for your farm. But as this is
not generally the case, just think over the savings this
Mobilco Loader/Stacker will make. It's a machine that
loads AND stacks bales, bags and other bulky
materials. It's a machine that hitches to your truck
"to go with it" at business-like speed to pick up and
stack those bales at the right time, and you know that
for best quality hay there certainly is a right time.
Mobilco loads and Mobilco stacks. With eleva-
tor lowered it picks up from the ground . . .
with elevator raised it loads to the stacks. For
stacking, elevator pivots through 90° so that
you can put the bale off just where you want.
1 h.p. Jap engine supplies the power. Mobilco
suDolies the guarantee and offers convenient
terms. POST THE COUPON FOR THE FULL STORY.
QUICK REPLY COUPON
I'd like all the details of the Mobilco Loader/
Stacker posted today.
NAME »eaeooeeoeae>a>»aeeeeaoooee>eoaeoooeeeeoeeoeoaeooaeoeoieaai—
ADDRESS
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
S£i OFFICE^4IO-4,6^WHIT*HORSE^
W" J«” 'V"? •- BRA - KCH - ES: AND i.ol*OT
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote your a price for the original.
(Vic.), paraded the champion
cow and bull and won the award
for the most successful exhibitor.
An unusual feature was that
none of the four major prize-
winners was bred by its owner.
Miss Hearn’s champion cow,
Gunyah Dairymaid, bred by
Capt. A. E. T. Payne, completed
a fine double by winning the
mature class for type and utility.
Her champion bull, the three-
year-old Franchester Free Yan-
kee, was bred by Mr. C. B.
Bolten in the U.S.A.
The reserve - champion cow
was the imported Worthy
Robert s Programme 5, bred by
Mrs. K. E. R. Butchart and ex-
hibited by R. G. Watson, of the
Overport stud, Frankston (Vic.),
I. R. Fitzgerald, of Nuna-
wading (Vic.), won the bull
reserve-championship with the
five-year-old V ermont Ideal,
which was bred by Dr. F. G.
Stephens, of Vermont (Vic.).
Most successful sire was
Yarraview Dauntless, bred by
Capt. A. E. T. Payne, which
sired the champion cow, Gun-
yah Dairymaid.
Fertility and
Machinery
“Bindaroo”: Improved soil-
fertility and a strong scarifying
implement such as a chisel-
plough were probably among the
reasons why certain paddocks in
the Victorian Wimmera could
be worked quite easily this wet
winter, while those just through
the fence were too boggy for
machinery.
One of the big advantages ot
a fertile soil —kept so by clovers
such a§ sub. and barrel, and
avoidance of overcropping—is
that aggregates of earth are kept
big enough and stable enough to
allow the water to run through it.
In the process, these particles
in a good structure store enough
moisture for the growing crop.
Humus helps to keep the par-
ticles in desirable aggregates, and
also supplies some plant-food.
On the other hand, an infer-
tile, structureless soil becomes
boggy quickly after rain. When
it dries-out, it gets as hard as
concrete. Most of these soils are
on paddocks which have been
overcropped.
The answer: More clovers
(encouraged by super.) and
less cropping. Simple and
effective.
The strong scarifier has con-
tributed to the dryness of pad-
docks in wet districts, breaking
up the ploughsole (“hard pan'')
which formed an impenetrable
layer to water in land which
has been cropped for many years.
This mechanical effect is prob-
ably the implement’s No. 1 value.
Centro
“W.C.Q.”: Queensland Agri-
culture Department recom-
mends Centro, a climbing
legume, as a cover-crop to limit
water-erosion in the very heavy
rainfall areas of the north. A
sowing of from lib. to 21b. per
acre will give good cover in six
months; a heavier sowing in
drills up to 3ft. apart, at a rate
of 41b. per acre, will cover
quicker. The legume is very
good for stopping fast run-off
and increasing take-in of rain in
banana- and citrus-patches on
hills.
The legume was first brought
into the north to mix with para-
and guinea-grasses, which lose
the bulk of their protein in the
winter months. It needs a rain-
fall of 80in. to lOOin. and a
mild to hot climate to grow
well. Cattle like it.
Wool Shrinkage
“C.A.A.”: While the perfect
method of preventing wool from
shrinking has not yet been
evolved, considerable progress
has been made in this research.
A technique developed at the
Geelong Laboratory (Vic.) in-
volves depositing a small
amount of synthetic resin on
the wool. By “spot-welding”
the fibres to one another so as
to stabilise the fabric structure,
the resin prevents shrinkage
caused by wear and washing.
The process, known as
si-ro-fix, is already being applied
commercially to the treatment
of men’s and boys’ socks and
will soon be used for other
garments.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(2/10/’55)
The reappearance of the sunspot outbreaks may
accentuate cyclonic activity in the southern section 'of Aus-
tralia until the middle of October, when the spots should
move over the edge of the disk.
During November, rainfall should be patchy in N.S.W.,
although moderately good rains should occur on the coast,
with moderate rains on portion of the northern and southern
tablelands and Riverina. The remainder confined to light
rain and showers.
November should be a p | oor month in Victoria, Tas-
mania and South Australia, and high temperatures should
predominate, particularly in S.A.
In Western Australia good rains should occur in the
East Gascoyne, becoming heavier over the goldfields area.
The lower south coast should also receive good rains; light
elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“Wage Injustice”
This slogan is commonly used by.
Socialist leaders whenever anything
sends the price of commodities up a
shilling or two. Not much agitation is
needed to set the ball of basic-wage
increases rolling and, along with that,
down goes the value of the pound by the
sum of the rise, or more. And then we
are just where we were before, except
for the lucky ones without family
responsibilities.
As for the welfare of the State, not
a pennyworth of benefit has derived from
the millions dished-out by Arbitration
Court awards since the 40-hour week
was introduced. Higher production, if
any, has come the expensive way—
through penalty-rates or overtime.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the
original 20 per cent, depreciation of our
currency from sterling is no longer
sufficient to ensure the holding of our
overseas markets. Every wage-
movement in this land since the 40-hour
week came to plague us has done its
bit to aid Australia in its slide towards
financial difficulty and other dangerous
problems.
Buyer-resistance is here at home as
well as abroad, and efforts to boost sales
by every known means, including the
lure of no-deposit on hire-purchase, have
been tried. When the tightening of
finance from normal sources seemed to
have effect, abnormal sources were quick
into the breach and lavish supplies were
made available at rates of interest that
have been termed fantastic. The result
is that a large part of the community—
so hard-up that it needs another 7s. 6d.
a week to save it from penury—is in
debt for several years to the tune of
scores of millions of pounds.
We are, in fact, in the same kind of
boat that landed the U.S.A. in trouble
in the 1930’5, when falling trade and
saturation-point in the market for con-
sumer goods closed down the works and
the doors of hundreds of American banks.
It is a ludicrous situation. We have
a people with some £l2OO million in
savings-banks, and much more in stocks
and shares, loans, etc., being urged by a
rise of a few shillings in the cost of
living—the value of half-a-dozen pints
of beer or three packets of tailor-mades —
to demand a basic-wage rise which every-
body knows will mean another price-rise,
which in turn will create a demand for
more rises.
The pounds already in issue are worth
little more than ss. of the 1935 currency
and they are steadily losing value. All
these hard-up people are plunging into a
vast indebtedness for things they cannot
afford to buy for cash and, in the doing
"If you ask me, I think he only uses one hand to be flash.”
of it, are aiding the kind of unnatural
distribution of goods that leads straight
to saturation-point and unemployment.
America, self-sufficient with its 160-
million population, may be able to sub-
sidise its production and so keep the
wheels of industry turning even if it has
to give the produce away, but Australia
cannot do that. We must have overseas
markets and we must be able to compete
with overseas competitors. How can we
do that on a 40-hour working week?
We have seven sets of sovereign Gov-
ernments on our backs, each with its
great army of public servants, most of
them unproductive as far as produce for
trade is concerned. Our actual produc-
ing population is relatively small and
hundreds of thousands of days are lost
by industrial disputes. The fact is that,
but for wool, we could easily be in
Queer-street.
And now, when somebody has tried
to open a coal-trade between Hong Kong
and Newcastle, seamen —who could not
be found to man a vessel loaded with
Government stores a week or so ago—
put a black ban on the ship unless they
can have a joyride with return fares paid.
And that on a ship which is the property
of Chinese owners! Shellback
(N.S.W.).
Try the Bush
With the current housing-shortage and
continual complaints about the cost of
living, I wonder why more young married
couples don’t try a few years in the bush.
In Queensland a man can earn
£l2 4s. 4d. for a 40-hour week as
gardener or cowboy—cowboys must be
able to ride a little and milk, but garden-
ing should present no problems. Book-
and storekeepers earn £l2 13s. 4d. —here
the ability to drive a car is an asset,
though not always necessary.
As cook, the wife can earn £8 18s. 3d.,
with £2 3s. for the seventh day. For
general housework she would get
£8 12s. 6d., with £2 Is. 7d. for the
seventh day, if worked. Both man and
wife are provided with free accommo-
dation and food.
That means an unskilled couple can
earn £22 18s. 5d., plus food and housing,
and with two weeks’ holidays on full
pay each year. I don’t know why more
of them don’t try it. —W. J. I. (Q.).
Cars or Babies
Statistics showing that more new
motor-vehicles were registered in Aus-
tralia than babies bom in 1954 are not
really surprising.
Both cars and babies cost money, but
there is a vast difference between the
two propositions, which, for many
families, present themselves as alterna-
tives. A car is available on easy terms
and, with the present high level of earn-
ings—particularly with two or more
members of the family working—no real
sacrifice is needed to acquire it. A baby,
however, means a considerable outlay in
hard cash and an increasing expenditure
for many years.
Further, the family’s income is greatly
reduced if the mother was working previ-
ously, and it is usually several years
before she can return to work. And, as
any parent knows, the additional work
and worry attached tp owning a car is
small compared with that involved in
having and rearing children.
There is also the question of social
prestige. Australians seem to be adopt-
ing the American criterion by which a
man or a family is judged according to
its automobile or automobiles. An old
model, or the lack of any is
apparently a social shortcoming, and
children find it difficult to accept the
parents' plea that a car cannot be
afforded.
It’s no wonder, then, that the number
of new cars exceeds the number of babies
“Now sign me up for two-thousand a week”
born. Perhaps we should be grateful
that the margin is so small—some 208,000
new cars as against 202,000 births. But
unless a radical change takes place in
the community’s assessment of the rela-
tive importance of things, that margin
will probably increase considerably in the
next few years.— Doynest (Vic.).
Stickfast Fleas
“Quo Vadis” (B. 7/9/’55) should know
that certain areas in Queensland are
designated quarantine or restricted areas
by the Department of Agriculture and
Stock. It is unlawful to remove stock
from these places unless special per-
mission is first obtained, the reason being
to check the spread of pests and diseases
which may abound in these areas.
About 1943-44 some schoolchildren at
a small country School in the Boonah
district developed a feverish condition
traced eventually to the stickfast-flea, a
parasite primarily of poultry, but also
known to infest dogs. A survey showed
the parasite to be present in poultry over
a wide part of the locality. A line of
demarcation was at length drawn on the
map and all inside was gazetted a
restricted area for movement of, among
other livestock, dogs. I understand this
restriction is still in force. I was an;
inspector of stock at Boonah during
inspections and treatment for stickfast-
flea.
The idea seems to be: Take your dog
into the area at your own risk, but do
not risk spreading the disease by taking
him to a “clean” area unless he is first
treated or examined.
The parasites attach themselves to the
fowl usually on the feet in an immature
stage. As they progress through their
moults they also travel over the bird
until they stick fast on the comb or
wattles and engorge themselves. When
fully engorged they look like small black
shot.
Eradication is a slow, tedious and
costly process. —Arbic (N.S.W.).
Rules and Regulations
If all the passage-workers, stowaways
and pier-head jumpers who landed
“illegally” in Australia in the old days
had been deported (“Avon,” Bj 24/8/’55)
it would have caused quite a depopula-
tion problem. And we might have lost
the ancestors of some of our leading
families.
Before World War I it was considered
a good way to see the world by many
enterprising young men. Passage-
workers were acceptable in most lines
and it often cost a quid or so of graft-
money to get a job. Even stowaways,
after being blasted by the skipper, were
put to work and told to disappear when
they arrived at the destination. It was
advisable, and helped a lot, to have one
or two a.b. discharges. If you didn’t
want to go to the trouble of staying at
sea long enough to earn them, they could
always be bought for a few bob in any
big seaport. Passports were only neces-
sary in a very few countries and, to the
wanderer, getting them continually
visa’d would have made them more
nuisance than they were worth.
In 1908 I jumped a British freighter to
Antwerp. Two-and-a-half years later I
joined another ship in Le Havre and
worked a passage across to New York.
In the interim I had lived and worked in
Belgium, Holland, Germany, Switzer-
land, Italy and France. I had no pass-
port, but I was able to speak French and
took care never to be involved in trouble.
Of course all the countries had their
passport regulations, but, generally, they
were not stressed unless you got into
trouble.
No sane person would want to see
conditions at sea revert to those days
when ordinary seamen were paid £2 a
month and fed on Board-of-Trade scale
rations —often to be “logged” out of one
and robbed of the other. But it is a long
way from there to where a country’s
shipping can be held-up because there are
not two kinds of fruit in the fo’c’sle.
It seems ridiculous that, as “Avon”
records, a man can be deported from the
country in which he was born because he
entered into an agreement in another
country, without which he might not
have been able to return to his own. I
was taught that laws were made to cover
every possible contingency, but to be
applied with discretion. With Govern-
ments, boards and unions making laws
and regulations by the dozen —not to
mention shipping-companies making their
own if they can get away with it—it
must be getting more and more difficult
to find enough men of discretion to apply
them.
But cheer up, “Avon.” The itching
feet of young men never have been
hobbled by rules and regulations, and I
guess there are plenty of them getting
around the world today under their
own steam, just as we did 50 years
ago.—H. W. F. (Q.).
/V
Interest-rates
Who’ll beat the drum for the thrifty?
Even the new N. S. Wales Savings Bank
can only allow the standard rate of
interest on deposits, which means that
anyone depositing £l5OO can only
receive £25 interest a year.
Consequently the Government has to
ask for financial pity from hire-purchase
traders and others who are lawfully
getting the thrifty’s savings.
Why not increase interest on savings
to, say, five per cent, and allow the banks
to charge what they wish on overdrafts?
Then the savings would go to the banks
and so come under central-bank control
and be rationed out to borrowers accord-
ing to the dictates of the economy.
And overdraft-rates being higher
would mean less borrowing for
unessentials and more reserves in the
banks in a situation like the present one.
—Emcroke (N.S.W.).


Bank Liabilities
I was interested to hear on the A.B.C.
news-session that savings-bank deposits
in Australia have reached a figure well
over £lOOO million. That’s a lot of
money, inflated or otherwise.
I don’t know what ratio of cash to
these “call”-liabilities is held by all the
savings banks, but the last balance-sheet
of the State Savings Bank of Victoria
disclosed “Depositors’ Balances
£245,606,909.” The other side of the
balance-sheet showed £47,545,713 held in
coin, notes, fixed deposits of other banks
and “other liquids,” whatever they might
be.
The actual position would have been
better disclosed if all those items had not
been lumped. Assuming, however, that
the whole lot were in actual coin and
notes, it will be seen that something less
than 4s. in the £ is held to meet a sudden
demand from depositors.
Raising the wind after all cash had
been paid-out would then depend on the
bank’s ability to sell its other assets on
the open market. These assets consist
largely of Commonwealth bonds and
local-government securities, and if they
were suddenly dumped on the market
only one result would be possible. Prices
would be forced down to a figure at
which loss would result. That was the
experience of the old Government
Savings Bank of N. S. Wales.
The Commonwealth Statistician has
released figures showing that the average
deposit for each operative account in
Australia is £157 (the Victorian average
might be a little better). Now, £157
doesn’t go far these days and, in the
event of another depression or setback,
it’s a fair bet that those average balances
would soon be drawn.
With the eight principal trading banks
a much better ratio is disclosed. Their
“call”-deposits averaged £1,195,797,180
for last May, against which they held
£425,150,157 in gold, coin, Australian
notes, cash with Commonwealth Bank,
Treasury bills and special accounts with
the Commonwealth Bank. In other
words, or figures, they held over 7s. in
the £, and it is unlikely that the trading
banks would be confronted with such
a sudden and extensive demand for
repayment as would the savings banks.
That was my experience in N. S. Wales
during the run on the Government
Savings Bank. That unfortunate institu-
tion finished by closing its doors and
suspending payment, while the trading
banks went quietly on with their business.
The point of these remarks should
be obvious. It could all happen
again.— Ceg (Vic.).
Teachers
Teachers have been getting more
publicity than usual, but if some of the
correspondents who write so glibly about
discipline had to stand in front of a class
of 40 pupils they might write a little less
nonsense.
The best advice ever given me before
I began to teach was, “As for discipline,
well, just remember it’s either you or
them, and it’s got to be you.”
I have taught next-door to a teacher
who “didn’t believe in discipline” ; the
noise was an indescribable example of
“student-participation” run riot. On the
other hand I have many memories of a
class and its teacher enjoying a joke,
with, the teacher in control of the class.
What a difference!
A writer said recently in The Bulletin
that, from his own experience, teachers
could be “divided into three classes:
tyrants, cynics and softies.” He must
have been unfortunate in his youth.
Tolerance and a sense of humor are two
of the greatest gifts a teacher can have,
and he won’t learn them at any teachers’-
college.— Marquita (N.S.W.).
Darwin
Virchow’s opposition to evolution on
the grand scale (“Kros,” B. 15/9/’55)
had more to it than socio-political
grounds, since he said expressly that the
only statement science could make about
the origins of life on this planet, con-
sistent with its dignity was to confess its
ignorance.
The Darwinian doctrine of natural
selection failed on methodological lines
to impress him, as it did Nageli, who
said of it, “Selection is in no way favor-
able to the origin of new forms.” In
Germany there were also Dacque, Wolff
and (later) Driesch, who said, “For men
" Two-Way STRETCH? But I Want something that will contract !”
of clear intellect Darwinism has long
been dead.”
To “Kros” I concede Haeckel, who did
a little faking of embriological diagrams
in favor of evolutionary theory—the sort
of thing that culminated in that very
successful “missing-link” hoax, Piltdown
Man. Haeckel in his later phase was
little better than a publicist, like Julian
Huxley today in his latest phase, and
like McCabe, whom “Kros” quotes. The
three of them put together never counted
for much in strictly scientific fields, and
don’t add up to one Nageli.
Darwin himself is a horse of a different
color, though even here theory and fact
are easily confused. Many preceded
Darwin with evolutionary ideas, and
notably Lamarck. Darwin differed from
nearly all of them by insisting that he
had, in natural selection, the key to how
it happened, but his contention has not
been well supported since the time of
Mendel and Bateson. Darwin observed
pretty well, and saw what might be
termed conclusive evidence that minor
evolution had occurred (i.e., in the flora
of the Galapagos. Islands), but when it
conies to major evolution (i.e., between
the genera) then “we cannot assert on
scientific grounds that evolution is a
fact,” as Dr. W. R. Thompson, F.R.S.,
put it.
That is where caution and even scepti-
cism are necessary, since the story told
by the rocks is that every new type of
animal recorded therein appears suddenly
with all its characteristic attributes, and
remains almost entirely unmodified until
now or until its extinction. There is
none of the gradualness, there are none
of the many gradually - intermediary
forms that Darwin postulated and of
which he anticipated the discovery.
The fossil-record is, of course, defec-
tive, but not so defective now as some
try to make out. In any case, true
science can appeal only to the actual
evidence and not to possibilities. Geologi-
cal evidence does not support major
evolution, particularly when it is recalled
that the earliest rocks bearing fossils
indicate a great and diversified flora and
fauna already in existence.
Finally, here is a list of eminent bio-
logists who have, since about 1930, either
questioned or expressed disbelief in major
evolution:
Vialleton, Lefevre, Guydnot, Thomas
(entomologist), and Lemoine all of
France ; Fleischmann in Germany, and
Nilsson in Sweden; O’Toole, Merson-
Davies (palaeontologist), Grant Watson,
Chance and Dewar (ornithologists),
Hebbert, Kelley, Rendle Short, and W- R-
Thompson (entomologist), of England
and the U.S.A.
It would seem that in this and in other
matters the 19th century was altogether
too rash in generalising on too little
evidence, for, as always, hasty generalisa-
tion is the enemy of true science. In the
matter of major evolution the evidence
so confidently expected has not been
forthcoming. And without evidence, no
science.— Martin Haley (Q.).
From Canada
The winding-up of the Petrov inquiry
in Australia has caused much interest
here, largely because of the precedent set
by Canada’s own spy commission,
instigated when Igor Gouzenko deserted
the Russian Embassy at Ottawa some
10 years ago.
Canada’s royal commission was con-
ducted in very different fashion from
the Australian inquiry, and apparently
earned much censure for its drastic
measures. It was given special powers,
and used them. Those suspected were
arrested and held for long periods without
trial. Questioning was carried out at
secret hearings, and later several people
were tried on charges of giving away
official secrets.
One daily paper here rates the Aus-
tralian Communist party as “probably
the most active and militant in the
English-speaking world,” and goes on to
comment on the involvement of the Left-
wing of the Labor party and recent rifts
in Labor circles. The Australian Com-
munists may or may not deserve this
description, but, it is certain that other
“English-speaking” countries, including
Canada, have their own troubles with
the party.
Much publicity has geen given lately
to the Communist-controlled Canadian
union of the International Mine, Mill
and Smelter Workers. It was expelled
from the Canadian Congress of Labor
in 1949, but has progressed steadily until
it now dominates some of Canada’s most
important industries —the lead- and zinc-
mines at Kimberley and Trail in British
Columbia and the nickel-mines at Sud-
bury, Ontario, which employ a greater
number of workers than any other
Canadian mines. The uranium-mines
in the Lake Athabasca (Saskatchewan)
region are also under this union’s control,
and at present it is working to obtain
similar control of yet another uranium
field, that at Blind River in northern
Ontario.
Employees are free to choose their
own representatives here, but many
people feel that it is courting trouble to
leave such important mines under Com-
munist control. In the event of a war
crippling damage could be caused by
strikes in these key centres.
But, if they have their Communist
troubles here, the scales were recently
balanced by anti-Communist troubles —
troubles which have damaged Canada’s
reputation for hospitality and may
involve considerable loss of revenue. A
delegation of Russian farmers was met
by so many unofficial “unwelcoming
committees” that much of their tour had
to be cancelled. The Russians were
apparently genuinely interested in an
exchange of farming ideas, and had
intended to place orders for machinery
with various firms, in particular Massey
Harris, of Toronto. The delegation
blamed former Nazis for the riots, but
whether Nazi or not they obviously had
strong feelings about Russia.
An American comments that Canada’s
reactions were far more honest than those
in his own country. In the United States,
where to possess a Communist father
may still involve one in considerable
trouble, the Russians were greeted in
friendly fashion everywhere. It is thought
that the change in attitude of the
American people is due to Russia’s more
open behavior in Geneva and elsewhere.
Apparently a large number of new
Canadians are not so trustful as their
counterparts in the U.S. — Patricia Scott
(Edmonton, Alberta).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 351
Across
I—Stem1 —Stem innings is not up with the
clock. (10)
6—Tax Mac. (4)
9 —Love to spoil the world’s most
famous tent-maker. (4)
10 —Indian city protuberance to
anger a football official. (4, 6)
13 — The reds went off. (4)
14 — Double the Maori encouragement
to a fisherman. (4)
16 —Pain a boy in hell. (7)
18 —Popped in wine. (2, 4)
20 — Harmless tavern of the Irish
dough. (8)
21 — Mrs. Washington suggests where
to sell laughter. (6)
23 —They are of assistance to
climbers. (3-3)
25 —Hebridean score at Rugby is a
fraudulent practice. (8)
28 — Make an entreaty to one and
beat it! (6)
29 — Are bone and oriental money
seen together in a Melbourne
suburb, girl? (7)
32 —Braces? (4)
34 —A type of dry sherry backing
Boldrewood. (4)
36 — A hundred chopping timber
which is sold by confectioners?
(7, 3)
37 — Tittle letter for a Greek. (4)
38 — Ginger Meggs’s girl is to kiss a
mischievous young girl. (4)
39 —Corroboree noise-maker is influ-
enced by Taurus and perhaps
Leo. (4-6)
Down
1 — Swamp with too much talk on
the crook article town of N.S.W.
GO)
2 The infidel is to cook poultry. (7)
3 Disney character is speechless
with love. (5)
4 It is after some publicity
entrance of mine. (4)
5 Buck’s wife. (3)
6 Volatile is often the word for
such a girl. (3)
7 Called out like a rooster shot
down the gully to introduce a
hairdressing style. (4-3)
8— This is so long with thanks a
couple of time. (4)
11 — Fretting for the Japanese up over
one island Japan invaded. (6)
12 — Check about batting. (4)
15 —Three sat in places where there’s
room for many more. (8)
17—Landscape gardening achieve-
ment is to shake around a table-
game that demands steadiness.
(4-4)
19 —A famous Sydney draper, in
early days, suggests a one-time
occupation of Gilbert’s Butter-
cup. (4-6)
22 —Manpower is usually enough to
run this place to drink and
squabble. (6)
24—Mr. Ingle confused the spirit of
the airmen. (7)
26— Bird what adds years to the
duration of' sunburn? (7)
27— Girl in a Hebrew house. (4)
30— Reed. (5)
31 — Drop is taken after the medico
* appears. (4)
33 —Crook contradicted such comfort
for the thirsty. (4)
35 — A Hollywood studio animal. (3)
36 — Hansom. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 350


■ssb
%-Jtk
»
k*
s&
*-a.
Sfr
*
1
553 S
I yuj«&**2&kv t~y**'
t 4Ht*b*Kia*:l
lUiT,*'
SfSPIN
*=3=2t
SifeJfS
vpSSs.
.■~r»K*- :
e
s
When an engineer tnrns farmer in earnest, you can expect
mechanisation in a big way.
Here’s the plain, unvarnished story of a man and his machines.
Mr. W. L. Stephens, Victorian industrial engineer and
businessman, knew there was truth in the old adage “Go West,
young man,” and, in 1945, go West he certainly did.
He left his industrial engineering business at Abbotsford,
Victoria, and bought 8,036 acres at “Woolawa,” Walebing,
Western Australia about a hundred miles from Perth.
Although only 1,200 acres were producing, the property had
great possibilities.
The basic principles of sound farming he learned from a
neighbour, Mr. John Lefroy, then turned his engineering brain
to the problem.
First thing he realised was the tremendous advantage of
track-type tractors over wheeled types. Soon, with a bulldozer
blade and logging winch mounted on his Caterpillar D 4 track-
type Tractor, he had cleared 700 acres, ploughed, cropped
and harvested it.
In his second year he added a Caterpillar D 2 Tractor to the
team and cleared another 1,200 acres. 600 acres, then 800,
1,300 and 700 acres were cleared in the following four years.
The year 1952 saw the purchase of a new Caterpillar D 2
Tractor (with increased horsepower) to replace the old one.
The same year he put another 536 acres of idle land to work.
Confident of the powerful tools at his command, Mr. Stephens
purchased 8,000 acres of virgin land adjoining “Woolawa.”
He added a Caterpillar D 6 Tractor to his fleet, cut new road,
then, with a Malice Root Ripper (weighing 4 tons) and a
20ft. Scrub Roller, cleared 1,200 acres. With twin disc
ploughs cutting 34 furrows behind his big yellow machine, he
ploughed his new land; then it was cropped and harvested.
He sold his adjoining property and, with greater pastureland
in mind, bought 4,000 acres at Moore River, on Western
Australia’s coastal plain. A new Caterpillar D 4 Tractor
cleared, ploughed and seeded the whole of the area. To-day,
it is lush with clover, oats and lupins and carries 2,600
sheep and 90 head of cattle. 26,000 sheep and 200 head of
cattle is the ultimate goal.
Back at 44 Woolawa,” in addition to his extensive grain growing
activities, he runs 8,500 sheep and 120 head of shorthorns,
with a new 36,000-bushel oat bin to care for them.
That’s the factual story of the engineer-turned-farmer and
the big yellow machines which cleared, ploughed, cropped
and harvested his lands in the West . . . big, powerful
Caterpillar track-type Tractors . . . the tools that harvest
the earth: the best in the world.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT * INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING—QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD., BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART,
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DEERING (N.T.) PTY.
LIMITED, ALICE SPRINGS & DARWIN.
NEW GUINEA: HASTINGS DEERING (NEW GUINEA)
PTY. LIMITED, LAE
