

sf
/
-m
gs
dfg
T OR DR
£9
|l , \
The Bulletin
FLYNN-OF-THE-INLAND’S CHURCH —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3937
Wednesday, July 27, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post aa a Newspaper
No. 256: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
WILBERFORCE HOUSE COMMEMORATES THE GREAT EMANCIPATOR
HULL, the third largest port in the United Kingdom, stands on the north
bank of the Humber. Six-hundred miles of inland waterways serve the
port, connecting it with the industrial-area of the Midlands and West Riding
of Yorkshire. The docks at Hull extend along the river frontage for seven
miles,, and cover a water-area of 250 acres. Its fishing-industry is the biggest
in the world, and it is also the largest vegetab'le-oil manufacturing centre.
The earliest inhabitants of Hull were of Northern origin who braved the
perils of the North Sea, perhaps in search of better living conditions or
perhapsdn search of adventure. Edward I (1272-1307) bought the land from
the monks of Meaux, and the creation of the new township of Kingston-
upon-Hull dates from that period. The right to elect a mayor was obtained
from Edward 111 (1327-1377). Today the Lord Mayor ranks as “Admiral of
the Humber.” In the 13th century Hull was a flourishing port with large
exports of wool.
The port has always taken a large share in the defence of the realm.
It provided ships and men to fight the Spanish Armada, and in the 18th
century the port was noted for its warships. During the Second World War
Hull was subject to intense bombardment from the air. A house of great
historical and architectural interest, known as Wilberforce House, narrowly
escaped destruction but it still stands today as a monument to William
Wilberforce, the “Emancipator of Slaves/’ This splendid Elizabethan man-
sion dating from 1590 was the birthplace of Wilberforce m 1759, and he
inherited the house and his father’s for tune. Befoie that, however
belonged to the Lister family, and King Charles I was entertained theie 1
1642 The house is maintained by the Corporation of Hull as a museum for the
exhibition of relics of the Slave Trade and personal items relating.to Wi Iter-
force. In recent years many of the rooms have been furnished to iUus
their appearance from Elizabethan to Victorian times, and notable examples
of period furniture are displayed.
Wilberforce entered Parliament at the early age of 2 1 •
intimate terms with the leading statesmen of the day. He was l
front of many philanthropic movements, but the great work of his life was
in connection with the abolition of slavery, a c ass ,
leadership in 1787. It was, however, not untiUJMpjMplfctohw death,
that the Emancipation Bill was passed ancUiHMF^ or pF ad Tg^achievea.


You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
Will find it for you —any book from any-
where. ... Quick service moderate charges
Write to BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN FROM FERGUSON
The importance of J. A. Ferguson’s
Bibliography of Australia, the fourth
volume of which has now been pub-
lished by Angus and Robertson, can-
not be overemphasised. In its all-
inclusive range it resembles that other
great bibliography, Sabin’s “Dictionary
of Books Relating to America.” In
arrangement, however, it is much more
effective than Sabin’s, because its
chronological presentation gives a
strikingly clear picture of the growth
and development of this country.
The fourth volume covers the period
1846-50, and completes Mr. Justice
Ferguson’s original plan to include in
the work all printed matter (as distinct
from manuscript) relating to Australia,
wherever published, from 1784, when
the colony of N. S. Wales was first
projected, to 1850.
Judge Ferguson claims that “no book,
pamphlet, broadside, newspaper, maga-
zine or report of any importance has
now been omitted” from the four
volumes. Yet it is more than likely
that new discoveries will continue to
come to light, for more than a quarter
of the fourth volume consists of items
that have turned up since the publica-
tion of the three earlier volumes.
Among these recent discoveries are
“Prospectus of the Grand Pantomime
of Perouse: or the Desolate Island,” a
rare fictitious account of the adven-
tures of the lost La Perouse; a copy
of the first issue of Queensland’s first
newspaper, the “Moreton Bay Courier”;
a report of the trial of Macarthur in
Sydney in 1808; a broadside advertising
a menagerie in the Strand, London, one
of the exhibits being “a kanguroo [sic]
from Botany Bay”; and a very rare
chapbook acquired by the Mitchell
Library in 1953, the memoirs of J.
McAlpine, “a native Highlander,”
which contains a description of Botany
Bay. There is also an 1813 “Racing
Kalendar,” probably the earliest issued
in Australia, and “Buffer, Don’t You
Cry for Me,” a broadside of five ribald.
verses about a convict transported for
seven years,
A number of similar broadsides are
listed in the addenda to Vols. I-III —
such pieces as “Henry’s Downfall,”
“Disconsolate Maid,” “The Convict’s
Child,” “The Irish Transport” and
“The London ’Prentice Boy.” Among
other interesting items are Martyn’s
“A Dictionary of Natural History,”
which describes the emu as “an
American bird”; the first number of
the “Hobart Town Chronicle”; the
curious “Tegg’s Mariner’s Marvellous
Magazine”; George Barrington’s
“Annals of Suicide”; and an extremely
rare booklet on Michael Howe, the
Tasmanian bushranger.
Mrs. Francis Vidal (1815-69), first
Australian woman novelist, is repre-
sented in Vol. IV by three novels —a
third edition of her “Tales for the
Bush,” “Winterton” and “Cabramatta
and Woodleigh,” all printed in Eng-
land. Charles Rowcroft’s “The Bush-
ranger of Van Diemen’s Land” (three
volumes) is listed; also his “Fanny,
the Little Milliner” and “Tales of the
Colonies.”
Mrs. Vidal and Rowcroft are fairly
well known to students of early Aus-
tralian literature, but who today has
read George Rodwell’s “Woman’s
Love” or W. H. Leigh’s “The Emi-
grant”? And who has ever opened
the pages of “Lucy Marline; or the
Bushrangers,” by Louis A. Baker, the
first book of American fiction where
the scene is laid in Australia? It was
printed in Boston. The foregoing, and
G. P. R. James’s “The Convkt,” repre-
sent the whole of the fiction
Australian interest published in bo|| : -
form from 1846 to 1850. Jm],
The poets were a little MdSf
numerous, but were as undistinguished!
as the novelists. They ate only interest-
ing as curiosities, or for historical
reasons. For instance, Edward Kemp’s
“A Voice from Tasmania” will always
have an interest because it was the
first book of verse published in
Tasmania by a native-born writer. It
contains many uncomplimentary
descriptions of official and other per-
sonages in Van Diemen’s Land in the
early days.
Ferguson tells us that Thomas Simp-
son, author of “Poems and Sweet
Flowers from the Glen,” was a plasterer
and that the “flowers from the garden”
had been published “in order to rescue
them from the forays of the silver-fish.”
Edward Silvester’s “Thy Greeting
Home,” “a paean on Leichhardt’s
return from Port Essington,” is said to
have pleased the “Australian,” “Atlas”
and “Herald” critics; and George
Morgan’s “Settlers in Australia” won
a prize at Oxford and concluded with
a glowing prediction of Australia’s
destiny. Laurence Halloran was a
doctor in divinity who robbed the
post-office of lOd. and was transported
to Australia for seven years. Receiv-
ing a ticket-of-leave, he opened a
school and became, in Macquarie’s
words, “The best and most admired
instructor of youth in this colony.”
He wrote “Newgate: or Desultory
Sketches in a Prison,” and other books
of verse.
This volume lists many narratives
by convicts, some of whom should
never have been sentenced, let alone
transported. Among the innocents was
Henry Easy, who wrote “Horrors of
Transportation: or the Danger of
Keeping Bad Company, or Being Care-
less in the Choice of Companions.”
Easy was sentenced to 14 years for
the theft of a watch. After his arrival
in Van Diemen’s Land his innocence
was established and he was released.
He stayed out here for a while as a
free settler, but later returned to Eng-
land. William Henry Barber, a London
solicitor, was another who should
never have been transported. His
innocence was also established, and he
was released after undergoing great
suffering. His “The Case of Mr. W. H.
Barber” ran into no fewer than nine
editions. And, although his innocence
was never established, it is possible
that Joseph Lingard was not guilty of
the charge of having stolen goods in
his possession. Lingard’s “A Narrative
of the Journey To and From New
South Wales” is a very rare convict
narrative.
Typical of many of the convict
narratives is “Life of John Broxup,
Late Convict at Van Diemen’s Land.”
Broxup recounts the harsh experiences
of the convicts in Tasmania. He
received many floggings and was con-
demned to the chain-gang, “com-
monly termed by convicts hell upon
earth.” Another convict, Joseph Platt,
received 100 lashes for running away
from his master, and survived the
ordeal to tell of his hardships in a
penny pamphlet published in Birming-
ham. A few fortunates, like Charles
Adolphus King, managed to escape
and make their way back to England,
where, apparently, it was not difficult
to find a publisher to print their
narratives.
Similarly, in Canada and America
there were publishers eager to put into
circulation the stories of the released
“Canadian exiles” the “political
prisoners” who were transported to
Australia for their part in the 1838
Canadian Rebellion. Ferguson lists
six narratives by Canadian prisoners
in his fourth volume, including Linus
W. Miller’s “Notes of an Exile to Van
Diemen’s Land,” “a most vivid and
interesting account of the convict
' system in Tasmania from within.” All
these Canadian Rebellion items are
very rare, and seldom, if ever, make
an appearance in Australian book-
shops.
Browsing through this volume one
continually encounters American
editions of Australian items. There is
the scarce Philadelphia edition of “The
Convict Ship,” “a narrative of the
results of scriptural instruction and
moral discipline on board the ‘Earl
Grey,’ ” by Dr. Colin Browning, a
naval surgeon. Appropriately it has a
preface by the Rector of the Church of
the Epiphany, Philadelphia.
It was to Earl Grey, after whom the
convict-ship was named, that Caroline
Chisholm dedicated her famous letter:
“Emigration and Transportation Rela-
tively Considered”—the fight against
transportation is at its height in the
hard-hitting pamphlets of this volume.
And while this was going on Leichhardt
was continuing his explorations. Judge
Ferguson lists the rare journal of
Leichhardt’s expedition to Port Essing-
ton in 1844-45, published by W. Baker,
Sydney. Various journals of E. B.
Kennedy and Sir Thomas Mitchell, two
other explorers, also fall within the
same period.
There is a spate of books dealing
with the aborigines in the different
colonies, one of the most important
being Heinrich Meyer’s “Manners and
Customs of the Aborigines of the
Encounter Bay Tribe, South Australia.”
It would be interesting to discover
whether “The Life and Adventures of
James F. O’Connell, the Tattooed
Man, During a Residence of Eleven
Years in New Holland and the Caro-
line Islands,” lived up to the promise of
its title. Also, whether “Her Majesty,
Queen Victoria and the Royal Family
and the Principal Nobility, Gentry and
Clergy,” by whom it was said to be
patronised, enjoyed Charles Good-
ridge’s “Narrative of a Voyage to the
South Seas and the Shipwreck of the
Princess of Wales Cutter.” Goodridge’s
is only one of about ten shipwreck
narratives listed, including “The Ship-
wreck of Mrs. Frazer and Loss of the
Stirling Castle.” A colored frontispiece
shows Mrs. Frazer, who had escaped
from the wreck in the long-boat, being
seized and stripped by New Holland
savages; and doubtless the book found
many readers in its day.
Judge Ferguson has tracked-down an
extraordinary assortment of almanacs
and directories —all useful reference-
books for anyone wishing to recreate
the past. Also helpful are such publi-
cations as Joseph Fowles’s “Sydney in
1848,” which was originally published
in 20 fortnightly parts containing
copper-plate engravings, Conrad
Martens’s “Sketches Illustrative of the
Scenery of New South Wales,” and
John Skinner Prout’s “Views of
Melbourne and Geelong.”
Ferguson plans a fifth volume
covering the period 1851-1901, up to
the establishment of the Common-
wealth. This final volume will be of
a different, selective kind, omitting
classes of material that are fully covered
elsewhere; and in it authors will appear
in alphabetical and not chronological
order.
W. E. Fitz Henry.
Ethel Anderson's Stories
In “The Bulletin” of July 13 was
published the last of Ethel Anderson’s
stories about Parramatta in the second
half of last century; a period which, as
short-story writer or historian, she has
used with a unique charm.
The series was planned, a story each,
about the Seven Deadly Sins. Mrs.
Anderson’s view of these had the
wickedness of the most subtle and
graceful casuistry. “Gluttony,” for
instance, concerned the crime of a
little girl in eating a doctor’s cherished
plum: the parade of children, each
with a bowl, each given an emetic to
determine who stole the plum, will
never be forgotten by at least one
reader.
The stories are full of such pictures:
young ladies driving off to swim naked
in those days of starch and ribbons;
the gay young wife at the ball at Parra-
matta, draped in the bolt of cloth
brought from Italy for the vicar’s
church-vestments; the scandalous and
diverting matter of the noble lord’s
visit to Australia to care for his father’s
sinister offspring; the strike of
parsonage workers determined not to
work more than a 24-hour day . . .
Mrs. Anderson has the suave air of
telling a fairytale; but if you look
closely at this airy prose you will find
it is made up of countless little histori-
cal facts—the price of satin in 186-;
the exact fashion of a ball-gown for
those days; an ostler’s wage; how a
doctor would speak to a patient; the
staff and their duties at a doctor’s or
a clergyman’s residence; the structure
of different carriages; and, above all,
the people’s conversation on ephemeral
matters of the time—all taken and
worked-up, I believe, from stores of
old letters.
With the art that conceals art, Mrs.
Anderson subdues innumerable such
precise details to their places in
atmospheres of a water-color clarity,
very much as she charms the sins of
man into smiling and serene art. Only
the finest of craftsmen, and the most
profound of understanding, could have
produced from the chagrin of the little
boy at the destruction by an oaf of
his pet ducklings a story of such com-
pelling beauty and philosophic insight
as that which was reprinted in the first
volume of “Australia Writes.”
It seemed proper to “say some-
thing” on the appearance of the last
of this closely integrated series of
stories, published over a period of
several years. Their effect, together,
should be of a novel. It is no use
looking for new Australian writing if
such masterpieces as these do not get
into a book.
Ronald McCuaig.
The Overland Telegraph
Like many of Ms other books on
Australian themes, Frank Clune’s
Overland Telegraph (Angus and
Robertson) is so closely fastened to a
piece of our essential folklore that one
cannot but welcome it, cannot but
recommend it—and cannot but wish
it were infinitely better.
The chief obstacle to one’s apprecia-
tion is not, as of long ago, the exuber-
ance of Mr. dune’s prose style; that
has been so much toned-down of late,
perhaps as a result of “the literary
assistance of my editorial guide,
philosopher and friend, P. R. Stephen-
sen,” that Mr. Clune may now be said
to have no style at all. The objection
is rather that, promising to tell a story
which every Australian would want to
read—how they set up the overland
telegraph—Mr. Clune never really gets
down to telling it; or at least not until
page 179, when his book has only
another 54 pages to go before it is
finished.
The plan of the book, bom of Mr.
Clune’s passion for the kind of facts
and statistics of which encyclopaedias
are made and with which guide-books
and tourist-offices bombard the unfor-
tunate traveller (who can never hope
to digest such a mass of miscellaneous
information), involves an opening at
the very beginning of Australian
colonisation. Indeed, in order to set
the stage for his drama, Mr. Clune
actually begins long before that, in the
“incoherent grunts” of the caveman,
“such as babies still use today,” and
“the earliest days of existence on this
peopled planet” when the problem of
communications first “exercised the
brainpower of that biped mammal
known as Homo Sapiens.”
Thereafter, for the benefit of those
biped mammals who have survived this
formidable opening, follows what is
practically a complete, potted history
of Australian exploration, particularly
those adventures which had to do with
exploring the Centre or crossing the
continent: Burke and Wills, Stuart,
Sturt, Leichhardt, Kennedy and a host
of lesser-known figures. Much of this
material is interesting in itself, for the
valor and sufferings of these great men,
reinforced with quotations from their
journals, always make heroic reading;
and, since the continent had to be
explored and crossed before the tele-
graph could be established, Mr. Clune
can fairly claim that all this is relevant
to his theme.
But it cannot be denied that the
reader who is hoping to see, in a book
about the overland telegraph, at leas?
one telegraph-pole planted, must wait
a very long time, and cross many long
miles of facts and' deserts and financial
and political wranglings (all, again,
admittedly relevant) until at long last,
on that fateful and glorious page 179,
to the accompaniment of deafening
(Continued on page 35)


<? £ * -
■.». ? | »•..
mamm
iiiiiiii
in
. ...
Hi
ii
■KT”
lili»ti m glte
r:
{.Mi
n
M'UirU n
* "/
>hi
n l
V'N
VVC \\\\l
v - Vi V Vs
V
fljflrtjjfc
m
mM
SH? "w
■•■:■ V' •
•~l' -W-. . -MU. t, «.»<«■ *'»»«-—r*
.
i
■ . ' .:
%
111 1
,fr.
1
' ”
1
mvr *
==;
M
4
O l
U
. '
»
r
111:
X
WM
wmmmam. \
.
»*■ J
HHH
*U««
SSi
, ,
'
i
; 1
/'y
mii
: • " : :
iMiinHSHppH^s
: i- \
■■<-"' , : "'"''''
■•.■:•■ ■ ■ ... ... ■■ .. ■.. '.. ■ . .
r ■■' >\. / % vs' .. tjs%f
mmm .
„— ;
i
.
aiiiiiiiiiai
• •
mmm
: :
■• • V:
:i
More executives prefer grev
in the affice 9 especially
“STEELBILT”
grey
Yes you can have “Steelbilt”
From Left to Right:
Executive Locker with reinforced, self-closing flush door. Sk;e is
sft, llin. x 15in. x 18in. deep, complete'with coat rod, two side hooks
and a hat shelf. These lockers are priced at only £9/13/6 each.
Four-drawer Filing Cabinet in foolscap size at £33/15/- each.
“Steelbilt” executive cupboards built for a lifetime of service.
Sise: 3ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. x 18in. deep. They have two roomy
shelves. Are extraordinarily good value at only £lB/19/9 each.
Roomy, all-purpose storage cupboards, si?e 6ft. 6in. x 3ft. x
18in. deep. Five shelves. And priced at only £2B/16/9 each.
Above: Swedish-type Desk, in genuine maple, with three large
drawers. Sise: 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. And are priced at £35/5/3 each.
Four drawer simple pedestal rolktop Desk in wailnut or maple
colour. 3ft. x 2ft., £44/14/4. 4 drawer, 3ft. 6in., £49/0/4.
8 drawer, 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. is priced at only £72/13/7.
_ l-fsi : lM IN ADVi : R
[Anthony Horderns’
sdf
OFFICE FURNITURE, FOURTH FLOOR. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE T.O.P.S. FOR SERVICE 80951
-


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 27, 19SS
Vol. 76—No. 3937
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
GENEVA REALITIES
THOUGH the Geneva Conference seems to have
shown that Russia has genuine apprehensions about
the outcome of an atomic war, it produced no
practical decision—merely a restatement of already
postulated aspirations.
The Russian delegates, as usual, have shown a
propaganda approach to the problems discussed. In
particular, they have professed a genial friendliness
towards the United States delegates which doesn’t
ring true in the face of their contemporaneous
barrage of propaganda in Asia alleging that the
Americans are brutal aggressors. A huge subsidy
to the Communist-run Vietnam, obviously meant to
be an election bribe, and other current actions cast
doubt on the Kremlin’s show of willingness to
abandon Communist propaganda overseas. There
is no real indication that there is anything in Nehru’s
prophecy that the Cominform will soon cease to
exist—unless something else is to take its place.
The trend of Russian thinking is shown by
the matters which were raised primarily for dis-
cussion at Geneva and which, after the leaders had
failed to agree, were referred back to the Foreign
Ministers, to whom they were no novelty. As
formulated for dissection at the lower level, they
cover German unification within the context of
overall European security, a security-pact for
Europe—“or part of it”—the limitation and inspec-
tion of forces in Germany and neighboring
countries and the possibility of a demilitarised
area between the Eastern and Western blocs.
It seems almost inconceivable that thinking
men should approach the problem of World peace
along these lines. The whole of the questions
raised are basically matters of detail in global peace
strategy. About the only thing true and acceptable
to all minds which have concentrated on the prob-
lems is that peace, as Litvinov declared, is
indivisible. . And it can’t be attained either by
concentrating on European peace or by the creation
of artificial barriers to aggression.
The limitation of forces in Germany,
potentially the strongest and, among Western
European countries, the .most populous and
vigorous, is an impracticable measure so long as
the Germans are not conceded equal rights with
other countries. Moreover, no matter what other
countries might agree to % the Germans themselves
would never agree to a condition of insecurity which
would leave diem at the mercy of anybody who
took it into his head to roll over them to get at an
enemy on the other side. They themselves rolled
over a guaranteed Belgium, and their opinion of
the value of Russia’s agreements to do, or refrain
from doing, anything is no doubt the same as the
rest of the world, having regard to what has
happened in China, Manchuria, Korea and a dozen
other spheres in which treaties have been flagrantly
broken.
The first concession as a precedent to peace is
admission of the equal right ,of nations to defend
themselves. The second seems to be an arrange-
ment by which nations will mind their own business
entirely and will not interfere with the internal
politics and systems of other countries. Only when
these preliminaries are agreed to can the question
of disarmament be turned over on a practical basis
as between possible opponents. When the world
agrees on them there will then be little or nothing
in principle to fight about. But in the present
atmosphere there is no chance of their being agreed
upon.
Russian public opinion is now the main
stumbling-block, for it cannot be expected that a
people which has been bred for 40 years in seclusion
and taught that the countries outside its boundaries
are inhabited by savage and aggressive races,
deterred from descending on the good things of the
U.S.S.R. only by organised force, can be brought to
a state of mind in which they are prepared to disarm.
The Russian of this generation has never
known a condition of affairs in which he has not
lived amid armed and aggressive might and to the
tune of loudspeakers declaring that there can be
no security until world capitalism, imperialism,
colonialism, warmongering and whatnot are ruth-
lessly rooted out after having been crushed by the
might of a world-wide Communist dictatorship of
the proletariat. He can scarcely accept, as the result
of agreement arrived at in a few hours or months,
the idea of disarmament, even if his leaders are
earnest in wanting it. The Russians need some
preconditioning and the chance to make up their
own minds about the intentions of the outside
world before they are ready for world disarmament.
There are, of course, no signs that the Russian
leaders want general disarmament They want to
create a climate of public opinion in the West so
strongly favorable to disarmament as to make it
difficult for Western Governments to maintain their
defence-systems. They want Germany neutralised
because it is becoming the most powerful European
bastion both against Communism and against
attack on the Atlantic seaboard countries. They
want agreement against the use of nuclear weapons
because, on the basis of old-time ground-armies,
they have an immeasurable advantage in that their
supply of trained gun-fodder and slave-labor
exceeds that of the rest of the countries of the world,
especially now that they have drawn China into
their bloc. In any war on World War II tactical
basis they could hope to fight, as the North Korean
war was fought, preponderantly with Chinese
mercenaries, who would draw the strength of the
West perforce to Eastern Asia while their own
hordes rolled over Western Europe.
One merely has to read the standard text-books
from which Communists are uniformly trained in
every country in which the creed operates to see
the impossibility of agreement obtained through the
present angles of approach. These books are still
authorised by the heads of the Russian Government.
It is taught that the capitalist system “means
the most shameless exploitation and the most
inhuman oppression of hundreds of millions of
the population of vast colonies and dependent
countries”; that capitalist imperialism has “not only
brought it about that revolution became a practical
inevitability—it has also created favorable condi-
tions for a direct attack on the citadels of capital-
ism”; that Russia can’t confine its operations
“within the narrow limits of the Russian revolu-
tion.” It is taught in Russian schools, and in
training-colleges for Communists everywhere, that
it is inadequate to regard revolution as being
possible in a single country —it is “necessary to
speak in terms of world-revolution,” and Lenin is
quoted as setting the objective by declaring that the
task of victorious revolution is to do “the utmost
possible in one country for the development, support
and stirring-up of the revolution in all countries.”
It seems that the preliminary task for Western
diplomatists is to dissipate these beliefs, which
have become by now part of the innate
thinking of all Russians. And the first step towards
this seems to be not regional agreements concerned
with defence of localities —no matter how large—
but the opening of the borders of Communist
countries to trade and tourist-traffic, the persuasion
of the Communist countries to allow their citizens
to leave their prison-house and travel the world at
will like other civilised peoples, so as to see for
themselves how empty are their fears. This,
together with the liquidation of Communist revo-
lutionary organising in non-Communist countries,
would be half the-battle in attaining a peaceful
world which it is obvious cannot be constructed on
the artificial bargainings about the physical features
of defence-systems or artificial disarmament.
Production and Industrial Peace
MANY recent strikes have begun through the
action of a small number of men in one section of
an industry, but have spread or become prolonged
through the unions concerned making the men’s
cause their own and subsequently receiving the
backing of the Trades and Labor Council. On the
theory, fallaciously put forward by some, that strikes
betoken prosperity, this means that a large section of
the “Labor” movement has committed itself on
the judgment of a handful of men who, as likely
as not, have acted on the spur of the moment,
and who certainly are not competent to assess
economic trends.
If the problem were looked at in this light
no sensible body of trade-unionists would be pre-
pared to stake their future on the judgment of a
handful of sanitary-carters, or gasworkers, or, for
that matter, a small section of printers or journalists.
But the “Labor” movement does not seem to see
it in this light, and if this is evident in the case of
strikes it isn’t surprising that it is even more so
where dissatisfaction with living-costs doesn’t
extend to strikes but manifests itself in constant
agitation for increased margins.
“The Bulletin” has always supported the prin-
ciple of margins for skill, and it believes that much
of the present discontent stems from the fact that
skilled workers have seen their advantage over the
unskilled whittled down almost to vanishing-point.
There is no disputing the moral right of skilled
workers to a greater share of the wage-fund than
they have received over the last few years, and
there are considerable grounds for thinking that
unless the next decade makes amends for the mis-
takes of the last the whole nation will suffer for
its failure to offer sufficient inducement for .young
men to acquire the skills and techniques necessary
to maintain industry at its present level, let alone
provide for further development.
But it is one thing to have a moral right to
improved economic status; it is another to secure
the conditions of prosperity which make its achieve-
ment possible. In the long-run wage-earners must
improve their own conditions by their own effort;
there is no other way.
A dissection of the national balance-sheet
would show that the relative decline in the position
of the skilled worker has not occurred through his
giving up some of his share of the pudding to the
interest-, dividend- and rent-drawing classes. His
loss has been the gain of the semi-skilled and
unskilled workers—a far more numerous and there-
fore a far more politically-powerful class.
The Federal Arbitration Court, in its first
margins judgment in February, 1954, remarked on
this when it said that the tendency of arbitration-
tribunals since the war had been to raise real
standards generally “without regard to the differing
worth of the contributions of skill and effort applied
in the output of the wage-earners concerned,” and
that this had been done at the instance of the unions.
The cost of this, said the judgment, along with the
extension of social-service benefits, the forty-hour
week, paid annual-leave, weekend penalty-rates and
other wage-gains had been ultimately paid “out of
the national-production returns.” The court said
that although the skilled employee had shared in
most of these improvements his position as to his
award-wages had deteriorated in comparison with
the unskilled man.
Unless there is a compensatory rise in pro-
ductivity in real terms it is apparent that, generally
speaking, a levelling-up of minimum living
standards must involve some levelling-down of
higher standards.
This truth is one that the “Labor” movement is
reluctant to accept, and it continues to plug the
theme of margins-for-all, to the detriment of the
interests of the really skilled men.
While admitting the plight of the skilled
workers, the court did not feel that in the “present
economic situation” a case had been made out to
justify increased margins. It therefore adjourned
the case for eight months. In the following
November it granted marginal increases to skilled
workers in the metal-trades industry equivalent to
2\ times the 1937 rates. Smaller increases were
given to semi-skilled men, and the margins of the
unskilled were left unchanged. Explaining its award
and reiterating that any increases in the general level
of minimum wages must be within the capacity of
the national economy, the court said it had come
to the conclusion that Australia’s economy could
support the marginal increases it was granting.
It will be noted that the court saw no justifica-
tion for increases for unskilled workers, realising
that this would be an increase in general wages, a
thing it had already refused to grant. In continuing
to press this point the “Labor” movement is follow-
ing a course which would nullify the gains made by
those skilled workers who have already benefited
from the court’s decision. And by encouraging
strikes and unrest which disrupt industry, the
movement is lessening the chances of other skilled
men gaining a similar measure of wage-justice.
Despite the court’s optimism of last November,
everything is not lovely in Australia’s economic
garden. In considering the economy, the court
remarked of the country’s oversea-trade position
that although it might not be as favorable as the
previous year it was no worse than many earlier
years and better than some. In the year 1953-54,
the last complete year the court had under
consideration, our oversea-trade account was
virtually in balance. In the year just closed—four
months of it had passed when the margins judg-
ment was given—we had an adverse balance of £6B
million, to which must be added invisible imports
—interest, freight, insurance and capital movement
—estimated at £135 million, which makes the total
deficit for the year something over £2OO million.
The importance of the overseas-trade position
is that Australian living-standards are still largely
based on the prosperity of its primary industries.
Last year’s wool-clip was a record in volume, but
values fell by per cent, from the previous
year. In secondary industry there is no sign
of the necessary productivity from which alone an
improvement in living-standards can come; April
production-figures, the latest available, show more
declines in output than increases.
All this seems to show that the economy has
not yet fully digested the forty-hour week and the
other elements of the post-war wages-system. The
process of digestion is being hampered by the
outmoded and unreal policy of the “Labor” move-
ment towards industry. Visiting British Parlia-
mentarian Kenneth Younger has spoken of the
need of the Labor movement for a new objective,
and in this he seems to be a long way ahead of the
leaders of Australian “Labor.” For years they
have claimed that higher wages would bring
industrial peace. It might be a good idea if they
reversed their terms and began to seek and preach
industrial peace as a means to securing higher
wages and living-standards.


THE GREAT (WOULD-BE) DICTATOR


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cahill's Long-shot
That Premier Cahill, of N. S. Wales,
should have become suddenly arbitration-
. conscious in a big way fits-in with
various other events in the industrial
world which presage unpleasant times for
the whole community.
First has come a serious outbreak of
irregular strikes, illegal and irresponsible,
and ostensibly not sanctioned by the
unions whose members are involved in
the first instance. With them has been
a ballooning campaign for “margins.”
Side by side with this, as the impact of
margins already granted has begun to
make itself felt in the cost of living, two
other features of the situation have
appeared.
There has been a renewed demand for
the return of the system under which the
basic wage was adjusted quarter by
quarter, cost-spiral following wage-
spiral. Also, the Communists, who had
. sat aloof like vultures for a long time
waiting for a pretext to pounce when an
issue arose which suited them, have come
into the arena demanding the application
of the United Front tactic to force wage-
rises and “improvements” in workers’
conditions.
Mr. Cahill’s plea appeared like the
right piece in a jigsaw-puzzle during a
week when rumors which had been rife
for days that a one-day Australia-wide
general strike was planned for August,
largely for political purposes, assumed
solid flesh. The A.C.T.U. executive
decided to seek the views of the State
Labor Councils throughout Australia as
to whether such a strike should be held
to protest against the arbitration court’s
use of the penalty-clause against the
Boilermakers’ Union, a Communist-led
body, whicH was fined because its
members contributed to a fund to support
illegally-striking ironworkers at Mort’s
Dock. Mr. Holt, Federal Minister for
Labor, has since called a conference of
employers and trade-unions for August 5.
Perhaps Mr. Cahill knew this was in the
wind.
ft was not so unnatural as might first
appear that Mr. Cahill should concern
himself so suddenly with arbitration
matters, especially since he prefaced his
resume of conditions by the remark that
recent and threatened disputes in
N. S. Wales, with a single exception, had
all been governed by Federal awards and
that this made it difficult, if not impractic-
able, for action to be taken by any State
Government. Apparently it is not even
possible for the N. S. Wales State caucus
to discipline its Legislative, Councillors,
who are leaders of the N. S. Wales
Trades and Labor Council, if they join
in Mr. Monk’s strike plan—or is it
Comrade Healy’s plan?
Apart from the fact that it gives him
a chance to impress on the electorate that
all industrial troubles are the Federal
Government’s pigeon, Mr. Cahill has
certain embarrassments particularly
pressing because he has a State election
looming.
Hitherto about the only attempt made
by the Cahill party in the settlement of
unrest was the introduction of abortive
compulsory - unionism, which was
intended to bring every employee in the
State within the- clutches of the union
juntas, thus turning the country into a
single large industrial pressure-group
which could have written its own ticket
in every sphere irrespective of arbitra-
tion courts. And every section will,
therefore, be inclined to astonishment at
the change of heart which has so suddenly
turned Mr. Cahill into a reformed
industrial character and led him to
recognise that co-operation might be
better than the class-war.
But with political “Labor” rent in
pieces a frantic search for glue and
cement is going on in the movement.
The weakening of the Right-wing has
naturally strengthened and given fresh
heart to the Left-wing militants, and Dr.
Evatt’s attitude has perforce made the
Communists almost respectable again
with the party and given it openings for
industrial disruption which it has not
had for years. It has become very diffi-
cult for the political leadership to hold
indiscipline in check on the industrial
side because it cannot now afford to
offend the Left-wing bloc which forms
so large a part of its forces for the defeat
of what Dr. Evatt calls the “Menzies-
Santamaria-Keon-Fascist group.”
So Premier Cahill has produced his
“appeal” to the Prime Minister. It is a
pretty long shot. But desperate men try
desperate measures.
Making Wages Buy More
Premier Cahill, of N. S. Wales, fearing
“industrial unrest” because the arbitration-
system doesn’t award trade-unionists just
what they want immediately they ask for
it, has asked Prime Minister Menzies
to convene a conference of Premiers to
see if arbitration can’t be streamlined so
as to make all the trade-unionists happy.
Mr. Cahill is also concerned —or says he
is—about the effect of the “frozen” basic
wage at a time when the rise in margins
for skill is having the effect of increasing
the overall cost-of-living. Because some
prices are now rising for this and other
reasons (the lift in the price of butter is
caused mainly by the overseas price
falling, with “equalisation” coming into
effect), the same Premier of the same
State is hinting at a return of price-
controls.
Mr. Cahill, as “Labor” leader in N.S.W.,
might first of all do a little soul-search-
ing (if such a phrase is permissible).
In 1948 trade-unionists got the 40-hour
week, after McGrrrrr, Cahill’s predeces-
sor, introduced that measure ahead of the
Federal Arbitration Court’s finding.
The immediate effect of the 40-hour week
was to reduce not only weekly output but
hourly output from each worker, on the
average. Then in 1950 came the “pros-
perity” loading of £1 a week, which
raised real wages by about 6| p.c., money
wages by 10 p.c. (for a start) and costs by
considerably more. Then prices began to
chase costs, in spectacular style, and
money-wages soared.
It was not until just recently that output
from the average worker in the manufac-
turing industry caught up with the weekly
average established before the coming of
the. 40-hour week. In some industries
(chiefly transport) the effect of the 40-hour
week cannot be overcome. And, all-
round, Australian manufacturing produc-
tion, per worker, is far below that of most
other industrialised countries of the
world. Which means that the cost-of-
living in this country is correspondingly
higher.
It is now over four years since the wage-
earner had his income boosted so con-
siderably by the pound-a-week “pros-
perity” loading. He has been given every
encouragement to put value back into the
£in the meantime. Only recently have
the more skilled of his fellows been
granted wage-margins more in keeping
with the inflated basic wage, and it
appears that, as a result, there has been
a loss of about 3 p.c. in the buying-power
of the basic wage, the money-figure hav-
ing been held static in the face of some
rise in living-costs. But real wages are
still higher than just before the 1950
“prosperity” loading was awarded.
The wage-earner’s remedy is to do a
better job. Only by producing more will
his wages buy more. Anyone who says
otherwise is a shamelessly false counsellor.
The Asian Champion-belt
Emerging from the flutterings of Mr.
Nehru from China to Peru, a new and
curious feature seems to be slowly emerg-
ing in the politics of Asia —one which
may yet have the most remarkable effects.
At first it seemed that Nehru was either
innocent of guile or still suffering from
renewed attacks of his early Marxism in
the same way that many of his com-
patriots suffer from recurring attacks of
malaria. Perhaps either is true. But the
suspicion seems to be slowly dawning on
the Communist world that what he is
actually doing is competing for the
leadership of South-East Asia, while at
the same time Moscow seeks the leader-
ship of India.
His progress through Russia, his
enthusiastic receptions in China, have
been publicised on a grandiose scale,
especially with moving-pictures and the
radio which reaches throughout South-
East Asia. In fact, the impression must
be prevalent in all the area which Indian
radio reaches* that he was received as a
sort of Messiah everywhere—not exclud-
ing Moscow and the United Kingdom.
He himself has come back each time
with a fresh political gift for somebody
accompanied by a fresh political blow for
somebody else. After his return from
China last year he outlined his Socialist
pattern for society which left the Indian
Socialist Party with no thunder in its
orchestra.
His personal import from India,
accompanied by a promise by Premier
Bulganin to visit India, was a sort of
charter of peaceful co-existence which
includes a declaration that no party shall
interfere in the internal affairs of another
Power for “any reasons of an economic
political or ideological character ” This
declaration hit the Indian Communist-
party leaders as hard as the Socialist
party had been hit after the hegira to
China. When last heard of the leading
members of its polit-bureau were pro-
ceeding groggily to Moscow for re-educa-
tion in the new line they are expected to
follow.
Agreements of this sort are not treated
very seriously in Europe. They have
proved empty again and again. But
Nehru is using it in backward Asiatic
countries where there are liberation-
movements, with the obvious intent of
advertising himself as the producer of it
and getting into position to denounce
anybody who proves unfaithful to his
undertaking. This certainly helps both
to cut the ground from under Russia’s
intrigues in minor Asiatic countries, and
the game is being carried still a little
further by a newly bom Indian
impatience with the partisan attitude of
Communists in the neutral commissions
in the Indo-China area.
Nehru’s attitude at Bandoeng and his
sudden zeal that the affairs of South-
East Asia should be considered at
Geneva smack of a glad-handing policy
aimed towards leadership of the whole
area, with a foot in each camp, East and
West. Somebody remarked that his policy
was “poker all the way.” Its outcome
will be interesting, and the game will
become harder to play if Indonesia goes
Communist and he finds India in the
position of the herring in a Red sand-
wich. But, whatever the outcome, it
should be an interesting game to watch.
The Way of Eagles
A, certain Richard Gardiner Casey,
being of sufficient means to own his own
small aeroplane, flew himself and his wife
to North Queensland for a holiday. As
one way of passing the time he conceived
the notion of flying about in the heavens
and potting at wedgetailed eagles.
Because this Mr. Casey happens to be a
Federal Minister, and his doings are
therefore worthy of note in the evelr-
watchful press, he told a reporter about
it and, sensitive of the fact that the
eagles have defenders who wouldn’t be
pleased by the spectacle of a Federal
Minister setting out to commit aerial
mayhem on them, added that he was
assisting the pastoral industry or some-
thing.
Presently a local ornithologist mildly
expressed some doubt of Mr. Casey’s
venture. This was followed by an
English voice condemning Mr. Casey’s
eagle-hunt as “a deplorable practice”
which, the Englishman hoped, would not
become common.
At that stage the matter could have
dropped. But then the press came out
with large pictures of Mr. Casey aiming
a gun from his aircraft, an eagle falling
“after being hit,” and Mr. Casey photo-
graphing a “wounded” eagle on the
ground.
This, as was to be expected, brought
down execration on the poor old holiday-
maker, who then rushed into print with
statistics —very dangerous things to use:
The area concerned.... depends on the
annual crop of lambs to perpetuate the
sheep-industry. The average estimate of
responsible people in the area is that an
eagle destroys something like a lamb a day
during the three months in which the lambs
are small and vulnerable. Say that a lamb
....is worth £2....each eagle destroys
about 100 lambs the killing of 265
eagles in two years has resulted in the
saving of about 10,000 lambs —£20,000-
worth of lambs —per year... .1 would
expect that the economic loss to Australia
of the wedgetailed eagle is several millions
of pounds a year.
Prominent defenders of our wild life
bristled at this, and Mr. Crosbie Morri-
son produced confuting statistics:
Twenty rabbits a day for nine months
[Mr. Morrison doesn’t agree that an eagle
takes a lamb a day for three months, but
lets Mr. Casey have it] means 5460 rabbits
per eagle per year. Six to 10 rabbits
destroy as much pasture as one sheep
On Mr. Casey’s basis of £2 a lamb, this
means a saving of £1092 to £lB2O giving
each a credit balance of £9OO to £l5OO a
year At best, each eagle is worth well
over £lOOO a year to Australian primary
production.
Whether the matter continues to excite
the nation remains to be seen. The truth
is that Mr. Casey isn’t likely to shoot
many eagles from his aeroplane, what the
eagles do to the sheep-population is noth-
ing to what other preventable causes do,
eagle-lovers will never see eye to eye with
eagle-haters, and had Mr. Casey been
plain Joe Blow and gone and shot an
eagle there wouldn’t have been the
slightest fuss.
The moral seems to be that next time
Mr. Casey takes a holiday he shouldn’t
tell the press what he intends to do—or
have himself photographed doing it.
Now for the East
“In the ACT”: No one at Geneva,
apparently, was prepared to regard those
talks as offering the proper Opportunity
for discussion of the most disturbed and
menacing section of the world today—
the Far East.
Mr. Casey said, without offering
explanation off his meaning, that Australia
considered that “while this conference
was not a suitable medium for seeking
definite decisions on particular Far
Eastern problems, it was an occasion for
seeking a better understanding of basic
attitudes towards them.” He went on to
hope that such a discussion might point
the way to possible methods of resolving
them.
All this would have been more satis-
factory if there had been a clearer idea
of when and where some firm discussions
would be possible, and agreement on who
should be represented. The Russians
introduced the subject of Formosa early
in the Geneva talks, on a note that didn’t
seem especially conciliatory, and it is
obvious that one of the earliest matters
must be a decision on whether both
Peking and Formosa will be accepted by
all parties as active participants in what-
ever Far East discussions are eventually
held.
There will be complaints by some
South-East Asian countries at Communist
infiltration, and probably counter-
complaints by the Communists about
methods- adopted to prevent subversion.
At the same time the problems
offered in some parts by popu-
lation-pressures, and by the almost
universal low standard of living of the
great majority of Eastern people* will call
for, dispassionate and helpful discussion.
If means can be suggested for maintain-
ing the independence and sovereignty of
the nations of the East, including those
still suffering birth-pangs, and for safe-
guarding them from open or concealed
attack while they work out their own
salvations, then a great further step will
have been taken in the direction of
prolonged peace.
In these and associated matters Aus-
tralia has a considerable responsibility.
It has taken the lead on occasion
on matters closely related, and
could act as an interpreter in some
respects of Western opinion for the
Eastern peoples close to it geographically.
It should not be not merely defining what
Mr. Casey terms “basic attitudes”; it
should be considering some constructive
means of bringing the parties together, of
framing a useful and effective agenda,
and of bringing into practical and prac-
ticable terms the theories of men and
nations of goodwill for the future of this
area of the globe and its relations with
the rest of the world.
Courtesies of Debate
One of those panel-games on A.B.C. the
other day had to deal with the question
of whether or no schoolchildren should
be taught the art of public-speaking and
debating. A few days later Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” was so impressed with
the tone of a debate in Brisbane City
Council that it featured it.
The question was that a person be
allowed to set up a snack-bar in Mon-
tague-road, West End (Brisbane). The
debate went like this:
ALD. BENNETT: There has obviously
been political interference with departments
officers.
ALD. WHITE: Withdraw that.
ALD. BENNETT: All right, but the
decision [to allow the snack-bar] is heinous.
It will become a bodgie-widgie exhibition
... .it could become an eating-house for
men visiting the near-by brothel....
ALD. GREGORY: The snack-bar will
serve workers only during the day. Aid.
Bennett has defended proprietors in
court
ALD. BENNETT: Take that back or
I’ll smack you in the mouth.
ALD. GRAY: Get into him properly.
THE CHAIRMAN: Watch your
language.
Aid. Gregory withdrew his remark.
ALD. RUDD: Aid. Bennett and Aid.
Gray infer that the law is being constantly
broken. That’s a reflection on the police.
ALD. GRAY: He will withdraw that or
I’ll push his head down the lavatory.
In- all, the debate lasted for H hours.
So there you are, kiddies.
The Railroad to Ruin
Each year brings the crisis of the railway-
systems of Australia nearer. Had the
situation been taken in hand a decade
ago it might have been dealt with, but
the accumulated losses, the accumulated
dilapidation and the increasing cost and
accelerated slow-down of labor seem to
spell doom for them.
Travel on some suburban Sydney
(iContinued on next page)


lines is an experience not merely of un-
certainty but of dismay, in such bad con-
dition are part of the lines and rolling-
stock. The cost of repair and replacer
ment is getting every month further out
of the reach of State finances, and more
and more Government freight is being
farfned out to private road-carriers.
These concerns can afford to carry it and
make a substantial profit while taking it
off the hands of the railways and paying
them some profit as a middleman —a
practice, of course, utterly pernicious by
“Labor”-party standards.
One of the largest road-transport com-
panies in N. S. Wales —it has grown
large only by reason of the Government’s
incapacity to cope with heavy haulage
offering—is paying als per cent, dividend
this year.
The State Government transport ser-
vices, on the face of their balance-sheets,
make a strong contrast to private
enterprise. Mr. Cahill actually had
the impudence to complain that
the fact that the raffway lost £2,000,000
during last year, in contrast to
an expected surplus of £500,000, was
partly due to “the loss of inter-State road-
tax collections” levied to kill private com-
petition. N.S.W. Government tram and
bus services lost about £3,325,000 last
year. And it is officially predicted that
when the effects of increased wages and
margins are felt the annual deficits begin-
ning next year will be even bigger than
at present. They will also, except on a
few lines on which N.S.W. Trans-
port Commissioner Winsor has be-
latedly installed so-called luxury trains,
become more and more subject to the
hold-ups and inefficiency and delays in
both passenger- and freight-transport
which are the products of the rapidly
deteriorating condition of rolling-stock
and morale.
It is relatively the same in most other
States. Victorian Government trains
logt £3,850,000 overall last year, though
with the excuse that £750,000 in conces-
sions had been given to secondary indus-
tries —concessions which do not prevent
the roads between, say, Melbourne and
Geelong being jam-packed with heavy
transport of goods which manufac-
turers find cheaper and quicker to send
by motor-power and private enterprise.
There seems little hope ahead. The
secret of failure lies in two avenues. First,
as Mr. Warner, the Victorian Commis-
sioner, pointed out in his report, wages
make up 85 per cent, of the total of all
costs of the departments—and the pro-
portion is increasing. Siiice 1939 subur-
ban fares in Melbourne have increased
only 70 per cent, while wages have
increased 270 per cent. Second, work per
man has probably fallen off nearly 50
per cent, as compared with 1939, though
nobody dares to make an estimate. And
the per-hour output of energy taken all
round gets less and less every year where
the Government-stroke prevails.
Already about one worker in every
four is a civil servant of some kind. And
the breed is multiplying.
POLITICAL POINTS
At least one good thing can be said
of the Geneva meeting. It was a
conference of grins instead of growls.
• •
It’s out-of-session time at Canberra but
there’s more than one way a politician
can keep in the news. Casey shoots
eagles Guilett gets beaten-pp.
• •
Cahill asked Menzies to call a
Premiers’ conference to discuss industrial
unrest. When asked about it, Rylah,
acting Vic. Premier, thought “it would
be undesirable for Victoria to express
any opinion on problems which appeared
to be peculiar to N.S.W.”
• •
A London firm is marketing a noise-
cancelling “mike” which can be used with
complete efficiency in the noisiest condi-
tions, “such as in a ship or dockyard.”
Canberra’s Parliamentary Broadcasting
Committee should buy a few to cut out
the asides and the coughing. Better still,
they might use them to eliminate the
remarks of the speakers.
• • *
New Zealand’s Budget will whet the
appetites of those who are hoping for
Fadden handouts next month. Income-
tax rates have been cut by up to 20 per
cent, and sales-tax has been removed from
many items. Estate-duties have been cut
and the age-pension increased by ss. a
week. And there’s no election due for
two years.
• •
Conjectures that the Federal Govern-
ment would not reopen for the Budget
session until after the release of Browne
and Fitzpatrick on September 10 so as
to avoid a debate on their sentence until
it had become past history seem to have
been as ill-founded as the outcry against
their imprisonment. Parliament is now
expected to resume on August 16 or 23,
and the Budget to be presented on August
17 or 24.
• •
Malaya’s first general election will be
held today. Voters will choose the 52
elective members who with 45 nominated
and 3 ex officio members will make up the
new Legislative Council of the Federation
of Malaya. The new system will be a
long way from complete self-government,
but at least it’s a step on the way.
• •
Sydney tram- and bus-employees are
still putting up a gallant fight against the
foolish idea that public transport should
be run for the convenience and benefit of
the public when everyone should know
by now that its proper function is to
supply jobs for members of the Tram and
Bus Employees’ Union. At a meeting
scheduled for yesterday their officials
were to discuss a 24-hour stoppage in
protest against one-man buses and the
running of buses on some tram-routes
during slack periods.
• •
After being stored for 15 months, the
furniture (and typewriters?) of the
Russian Embassy in Canberra is to be
sold at public auction. It was mostly
pretty shabby, according to reports, but
souvenir-hunters may put the prices up
a little. No decision has been reached on
the future of the embassy building, but
the sale of the furniture is thought to
show that there’s nothing in the rumors
of resumption of full diplomatic rela-
tions. These had* been floating around
as a result of the Soviet’s peace-offensive
and its interest in the Olympic Games.
• •
Only a week or two before a jet-
bomber went around Australia in a few
hours, the film-division of the National
Library received a film made from a
negative which had been in storage since
1924 —the record of the first air-
circumnavigation of Australia. This was
the flight of Wing-Commander Goble
and Flight-Lieut. Mclntyre in a Fairey
seaplane, and it is historic for some of
the shots made from the airv and for the
great welcome which the pioneers got
when they beached their craft at St. Kilda
about 40 days after setting out. The
flight was made at an average air-speed
of about 90 miles ail hour —about a sixth
of the jet’s speed.
• •
Fadden announced a £7O-million
surplus on July 6, whereupon Premiers,
pensioners, taxpayers’ associations and
others swamped him with pleas and
demands. Fadden waited till the noise
died down, then added that “after
financing certain outlays” he had a
surplus of only £3O million.
• •
No mention yet of Fitzpatrick and
Browne getting appearance-money . . .
• •
At a time when most Governments and
transport-authorities are looking for
ways of reducing the death-toll from road-
accidents the N. S. Wales Commissioner
for Road Transport has reduced the mini-
mum age for drivers of heavy motor-
lorries from 21 to 19. Reason given is
that employers are finding it hard to get
drivers. Plenty of other jobs in industry
are also hard to fill, but that’s no excuse
for relaxing safety-standards.
• •
Those clamoring for a return to price-
control must have short memories. Our
PURSUED
“Menzies! Menzies! Help me, can’t you? This thing keeps dogging
me like my shadow!”
worst bout of inflation occurred while
the prices of a large range of essential
items were still “controlled.” The lesson
that should have been learnt then was
that so-called price-control doesn’t keep
prices down; it merely records their rise
—a long time after the event.
• •'
“Mugga Way”: At the suggestion of a
travelled member of the Reps., the
National Library in Canberra has
installed a large perspex terrestrial globe,
which is illuminated internally, and can
be moved on its axis by electricity. Later
it is planned to instal a celestial globe as
well, perhaps for members interested in
the possibility of inter-planetary con-
stituents. The terrestrial globe suffers
from the disadvantage of the Southern
Hemisphere being rather close to the
floor for inspection in comfort. Indeed,
members anxious to study Antarctica may
have to stand on their heads, but this
should offer little difficulty to the
majority of politicians. The globe
emphasises certain aspects of Australia’s
proximity to Asia not always apparent
from atlases, and its presence in the
library may result in better-informed
debates on foreign affairs. I
• •
The Australian Hauliers’ Association
wants a fuel-tax and a tyre-tax “to provide
money to build and maintain highways in
Australia.” That’s all right, so long as
the money is used for that purpose.
C. E. Clements, president of the Royal
Automobile Club of Victoria, also has his
eye on money for roads —in particular for
a 2800-mile highway which would “sweep
in a huge arc (from Cairns to Pt. Augusta)
to provide a first-class dual two-lane
or three-lane road, linking up the four
main States.” He estimates the cost at
£3OO million and reckons the job could
be spread oVer 20 years, requiring annu-
ally “half the sum now collected each
year in Federal sales-tiax on motor-
vehicles and -parts.” So far, so good,
but urging the value of his scheme from
the defence viewpoint Clements argues
that if the unspent portion of last year’s
defence-vote had been put into road-
building 150 miles of his highway could
have been built “without exceeding the
defence-allocation.” What he overlooks
is that the money was unspent because
enough men and materials were not
available to employ it. Similarly, the road
could not have been built without for-
going some other part of the defence-
programme.
• •
Melbourne’s statue of Blarney will
depict the field-marshal “standing in a
jeep, holding the windscreen.” That will
be more emblematic of War II than the
alternative suggestion of mounting him
on a charger; it will also probably make
T.om the first national figure since
Boadicea to be immortalised in a wheeled
vehicle.
• •
Westralia has been experiencing a
boom in recent years with the erection of
the huge oil-refinery and other works at
Kwinana and expansion in other indus-
tries. But the State has been taught a
sharp lesson in economics-—that the rate
of development can’t far outstrip growth
in the work-force without causing infla-
tion. Living-costs in Westralia have in-
creased to a greater extent than in any
other State.
• •
Discussing the growth of Queensland’s
population, Brisbane “Courier-Mail” says
that at the present rate it would take 27
years to reach two-million, and that “the
parents of the two-millionth Queenslander
might not even be bom yet.” This places
a great responsibility upon present
Queenslanders because obviously if those
parents don’t get born the two-millionth
Queenslander will never be bom.
• •
Sydney residents with good memories
who recall that during the 1920’s they
were confidently expecting the Quay rail-
way to be finished within a few years
will be comforted to learn that according
to the best authorities work on the line
is “slightly ahead of schedule.” Latest
estimate is “by Christmas.” Year not
stated.
• •
A year ago “Labor” was explaining
the unrest among skilled workers by the
fact that they resented the decline in
value of their margins for skill. Now
they are excusing the unrest among
unskilled workers on the grounds that
the court has given skilled men.higher
margins, but has not increased the wages
of the unskilled.
Cables tell of a “thinking factory” in
New York” run on electronic brainpower
which will solve anyone’s problems for
a fee; “it can do homework or balance
the family budget.” Homework perhaps ;
as for the family budget—well, the
factory might be able to calculate it, but
balancing it is a different matter.
• •
Menzies said in Brisbane, “By what
right Dr. Evatt started a sectarian issue
is completely beyond me.” Evatt replied
that the P.M. was “again filling the role
of a political huckster whose soiled and
sectarian wares are aired in an atmos-
phere of intrigue and chicanery It is
not I, but Mr. Menzies, who stands con-
demned for sectarian intrigue.” Just a
moment was it Bob or Bert who
discovered the Santamaria’s nest?
• •
Adelaide may get the famous plane in
which Ross Smith and his team made the
first flight from England to Australia in
1919. It has been removed from the
National War Memorial in Canberra to
make room for “G for George,” a War II
veteran, and Senator Laught has put in
a plea on behalf of South Australia,
home-State of Ross and Keith Smith.
• •
The Macquarie-street talking-shop will
reopen for business on August 24. This
will probably be the last session of the
present Parliament, with an election early
next year.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
"DLACK-EYES and broken toes are all
in a day’s work for Victoria’s tough
Bishop of Ballarat (Dr, W. H. Johnson).
He says in a diocesan letter that
in his rounds through western Victoria he
decided to cross the S.A. border and
have another look at the old family home
nehr Adelaide. It was being done-up
after having been damaged in the
earthquake 15 months ago. On arrival
they found a fallen tree blocking the way.
The Bishop, with three companions, tried
to shift it. It fell, and broke his Lord-
ship’s big toe. It was now dark, so the
Bishop’s wife decided to go inside and
make a “cuppa.” She could not find the
light-switch and, unaware of a nest of
23 pots of paint just inside the door, sus-
tained a black-eye. Besides, his Lord-
ship said, “she looked as though she was
wearing Joseph’s coat of many colors.”
—“Doormat.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“S.A.K.”: The Yanks never lack an
explanation, frequently more interesting
than convincing. Army badges of com-
missioned rank range from a single gold
bar (because gold is heaviest and therefore
lowest down) through silver to oak-leaves
and the Stars of top-brass. Elemental, in
fact, my Yank mentor assured me.
❖ ❖ *
“Willpar”: Biochemists now claim
that worry—one moment, while I take my
"Marry one of the Jones twins? Not me —I like to be exclusive."
asthma pill—is the cause of many
common ailments. Worry, they say, acti-
vates some gland or other which then
expels a chemical which, designed for
good, like alcohol, if present in too great
a quantity, has a —excuse me ... ah, that’s
better . . . pain in my left kidney . . .
nothing really—detrimental effect on the
whole of the system. All very interesting,
but when one thinks of the lack of control
one exercises over one’s glands—well, it
must be very worrying to the worrying
type, very worrying indeed. Biochemists
would argue, no doubt, that worry could
have been responsible some time ago for
my mental blackouts when, periodically,
three horses asking the barmaid to adjourn
the meeting provided there was sugar in
the cement, I would completely lose my
train of thought and talk all kinds of
drivel, but they could be wrong. Why,
I have just completed my income-tax
return and feel fine.
+*♦
“Freddie II”: When “K.A.” says there
is nothing new in marching displays by
women (B. 6/7/’55) he is only too right,
but he errs on the modest side in taking
it back to ’42 only. Mark Twain, in
Life on the Mississippi (1883 edition),
wrote:
In the west and south they have a new
institution—the Broom Brigade. It is com-
posed of young ladies who dress in uniform
and go through the infantry drill with
broom in place of musket....l saw them
go through their complex manual with
grace, spirit and admirable precision. I
saw them do everything a human being can
possibly do with a broom, except sweep. . .
But I know they could learn.
+X+ ❖ <♦
“Cag.”: Liftmen are born, not made.
A Melbourne emporium tried to “make”
one. Leo gained practical experience by
working the goods-lift; he was schooled
in the technique of floor-announcing,
coached in general deportment, and
measured for his uniforms. He graduated
and was allotted an elevator. His debut
coincided with a much-publicised Monday
sale. Having rehearsed his patter all the
weekend, finding a most impressive
8.8. C. voice in the process, Leo now
stood by his lift, resplendent in new
uniform. The store-doors opened, and
in surged thousands of women. AH'
elevators were quickly crammed; Leo
pulled the lever which started his lift on
its spasmodic eight-floor ascent. In pon-
tifical tones he announced its approach to
“First-floor —ladies, corsets, underwear,”
and whatnot. As the lift-doors opened
he began a bow most courteous. A
moment later a tidal wave of bargain-
huntresses spun him round, dashed him
hard against the lift-wall, and deposited
him on hands and knees outside the door.
Enraged by the indignity of it all, he rose
up and screamed, “You hungry lotta
bitches!” He never made the Bth floor.
He was sacked and replaced at the 6th.
❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: When Christmas comes
around again in Sydney (with pleas of
goodwill to all men) and that glib rhyme-
ster leaves his verse, in touching terms
and phrases terse on yellow card, im-
printed neat as pie, upon my closet-seat
one pleasant morning in December, pan-
handling my grace to remember that I’m,
say, two-bob in his debt, I promise him,
/ shan’t forget!
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.K.D.”: A Brisbane schoolteacher,
charged in the Criminal Court with
assault, was giving evidence in his own
defence. He said he’d suffered a blackout
and the first thing he remembered was
being told at the watchhouse that he
“Best of luck , old chap!”
would be charged with assault. Gently
leading him, his counsel said, “And you
then said, ‘Who did I kick?’ ” Directing
a look of chilly reproach at his counsel,
the schoolteacher replied frostily, “No,
I did not say that. What I said was,
‘Whom did I kick?”’ Acquitted.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Parritch” : Pennies on the ledges of
Melbourne’s Prince’s Bridge (B.
20/7/’55) remind me of, pennies—and an
occasional trey and more‘occasional zac
—in the Wishing Pool in Jenolan Caves
(N.S.W.), and, och, it makes Australians
look a threefty race. For at the head of
Loch Katrine, in Scotland, you may peer
through pellucid waters at a positive pave-
ment of shillings and florins on the rock-
ledges below. I disremember whether
’tis a wish one buys there or protection
from some misty wraith, but the marvel to
me is that the local small boy ignores the
wealth awaiting the diver. On one broad
length of rock alone —and the area is full
50yds. long—l counted 43 florins gleam-
ing up at me.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: Music not only soothes the
savage breast; it has soporific effects
(and I’m .not referring to lullabies). A
husband and wife I knew in Melbourne —
he was a lawyer, but repented and died
a bishop—had to entertain an important
visitor to this country, so they wined and
dined him at a fashionable hotel and then
carted him off to Wagner’s “Valkyrie.”
Halfway through the first act the husband
began to snore, and the wife had barely
brought him to his senses when the dis-
tinguished guest started on the same
racket. By now the high-minded near
them were signifying displeasure, so all
she could do was marshal her party and
slink ignominiously out. Twenty years
ago I attended an exceedingly “social”
but devastatingly boring piano-recital in
Sydney to which many an unwilling hus-
band had been dragged by the missus.
Some slept through the worst of it, others
just counted the minutes and shook their
watches to make sure they hadn’t stopped.
All of a sudden the Sahara-like flatness
of a sonata was interrupted by an old
dame dropping her bag and breaking the
medicinal flask of brandy in it. As the
pungent, inviting aroma scented the desert
air, all the menfolk came to life and
sniffed like bloodhounds.
“C.A.L.”: Each day I have to read the
detail-slips from the cash-registers in a
chain-store. I was puzzled that one
register’s daily index showed so many
“no-sale” registrations. Though the girl
was always correct with her takings, I
confronted her with an offending slip
and asked for an explanation. “Well,”
she explained, “when I try and talk a
customer into buying something and I’m
not successful I ring up ‘no sale.’ ”
Seemed screwy to me till I realised that
she honestly thought the entry on the
register was for this purpose. Her “no-
sale” percentages to cash-purchases were
not very high, so she could not have made
a bad fist at what is known as “breaking-
down sales-resistance.”
♦> ♦>
“X.N.0.”: “Zorok” (B. 6/7/’55) has
the popular but erroneous conception of
Captain Kidd as a bad, bold pirate.
Financed by a committee of English poli-
ticians and peers, which included the
then-First Lord of the Admiralty, Kidd
sailed from London in 1696 to privateer
against the French and the Red Sea
pirates. His captures were only six
vessels, a small French craft, three Arabs
from which he took only stores, and two
Armenian ships sailing with French
passes. He returned to New York, his
home-port, after sharing the plunder, such
as it was, with his crew, according to the
privateer custom of the time. This left
too little to satisfy his backers, and they
had him proclaimed, arrested and later
tried (four trials) as a pirate. His trials
were masterpieces of injustice and delay.
Eventually he was hanged and his body
suspended in chains near the Thames as a
warning to unsuccessful privateers. The
arch-pirate of the period, and a very
nasty bit of work, was Every, who
escaped capture and is believed to have
retired to Ireland with a fortune. Kidd
was a poor sample of the brethren; he
owes his reputation to spleen and
publicity.
*l* +♦+ *i*
“Bagot”: Annual stocktaking-figures
at a Perth warehouse revealed an alarm-
ing shortage of valuable piping. Many
members of the staff were under suspicion
until a frantic investigation exposed the
culprit—a junior clerk. In subtracting a
last-minute sale of 200 ft. after the piping
had been counted and measured, he
placed that figure beneath the first three
digits of the quite correct total of 30,000.
♦ * ❖
“St. Ruth”: My recollection of the
film “The Sentimental Bloke” goes, back
to its casting-days (“Spinifex,” B.
13 /7 / ’55). There never was a doubt about
who should play Doreen. Lottie Lyell,
to whom a commemorative plaque is
surely due, was the first Australian actress
to merit the monicker “film-star,” and she
was a natural choice. The trouble was to
find a suitable Bloke. Den himselt
selected Arthur Tauchert for his hero,
after a long search. In fact, the moment
Den clapped eyes on Tauchert his actual
words were: “There’s my bloke!” He
was dead right, too.
“Sebak”: There were two “Sentimental
Bloke” films. Lottie Lyell and Arthur
Tauchert played the leads in the flick of
T 8 vintage; it was in the talkie made
about ’33 that Rae Fisher .took the part
of Doreen. Don’t remember who was the
Bloke in this one —maybe because his
cobber, “A rorty bloke, a naughty bloke,
wiv rude expression fick in his casual con-
versation,” plus a fine sense of wicked
comedy, completely outshone him.
those days I couldn’t afford a radio, but
years later I formed a strong liking for
a radio-personality named Tal Ordell. It
came as a pleasant surprise, later again,
to discover that he had been the Ginger
Mick I enjoyed so much.
LOOKY STRIKE
“Union officials at Newcastle claimed that a
contemptuous look caused a waterside-worker
to loie his job. After the dismissal 59 other
waterside-workers stopped work and walked off
a ship.”
He didn't shout or raise his hand,
He didn’t swear or go off crook,
He merely, so. I understand,
Give him a look.
He didn’t whinge or make a fuss,
He didn’t say he’d sling his hook,
But, quietly contemptuous,
Give him a look.
Well, someone must have been on edge;
His boss has gone and flung the book
At him, because he (friends allege)
Give him a look.
Was someone hard , on this poor lad ?
Was someone just a bit mistook
When he (perhaps it’s all he had!)
Give him a look ?
A man might well go off his bean
If Ava or some other chook
L,ike Rita, Greta, Jane or Jean
Give him a look.
A man might well get off his bike
Because of graft, or jiggerypook;
But what a reason for a strike —■
“Give him a look !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TN a Smithfield (N.S.W.) church where
they have talkies some nights, Sunday
service was in progress when I passed.
On the door was a poster advertising
“Mother Wore Tights.”—“W.P.T”
“Tonsi”: “Renault’s” par. on the
lighting-regulation (B. 13/7/’55) encour-
aged me to have another go at translating
“ Twenty-one Squadron-eyes right!”
the instruction on my Tasmanian land-
tax demand:
The amount assessed above should be
paid to me at the State Treasury, Murray
Street, Hobart, within thirty (30) days from
the day on which this Demand should be
received at the Post-Office at which letters
addressed as herein are finally received for
delivery.
Do the Speck’s bigger sisters issue
equally-explicit instruction when they
come the legalised Ned Kelly on property-
owners?
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Venum”: News-readers who have
gibbered over Victorian Premier Bolte’s
name shouldn’t hesitate to give a signifi-
cantly distinct stress to the final “e” in
the quad-family Lucke’s name—unless,
of course, they’re downtrodden family-
men.
*** ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Quondong”: Adelaide can go one
higher than Melbourne or Sydney with
first-section tram-fares (“Wusslean,” B.
6/7/’55). Originally Id., it is now sd. to
ride one section on Adelaide’s trams and
buses, which has driven even city-coun-
cillors to protest, and to ask for a 3d. fare
within the city-proper limits.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Ranji”: Rise in Melbourne haircuts
to 4s. “ordinary” and 4s. 6d. “special”
makes barbering a brisker business than
Bankstown. But before the rise I had-a
trim every three weeks —17 sittings for
595. 6d. I’ve decided that a month will
now do —12 sittings for 48s. That leaves
me 11s. 6d. better off.
“Major Monsoon”: The young
housewife (“Eureka,” B. 6/7/’55)
who found that her key opened the
back-doors of all six cottages in a
row had no cause to be astonished.
Ordinary rim-locks respond to a
variety of keys of a similar pattern.
Locks of “Yale pattern,” not neces-
sarily Yale locks, are supposed to
be more selective ; keys belonging
to different locks are thought not
to be interchangeable. When my
elder boy married a girl in a
different suburb from ours and
went to live for a while with the
girl’s parents, he was astonished
to find that the key which fitted the
lock in his parents’ home also
opened the door to his in-laws’
home —a notable case of love laugh-
ing at locksmiths.
“Postal Inspector”: The Moodlu (Q.)
edifice lately mentioned among small
post-offices was closed in September,
1953. I measured this office before it
closed and found it was 6|ft. square. I
also found in the office-file an extract
from a newspaper with a photo-
graph of the structure and a footnote
saying it was the smallest post-office in
Australia. When travelling along the
Great Northern railway-line in 1944 I
was told that the Nonda post-office was
the smallest in Australia; I accepted that
until I saw Moodlu, which put Nonda
out of the race.
♦5- *i+ »s
“Taffy”: The New Australian who
wanted to rent a house for her sister (B.
29/6/’55) was using purer English than
“El Arem” appears to realise. Up to a
couple of centuries ago (and much later
in parts of rural England) “rent” could
mean either to take or to grant a lease.
It is still so used in the U.S.A. General
William Tecumseh Sherman is reputed to
have said that, if he were given both
Texas and Hell, he would rent (that is, let)
Texas and live in Hell. In Spanish, a
much more precise language than English,
“alquilar” and “arrendar” cover both
renting (modern sense) and letting.
■£♦ ♦♦♦ ♦!*
“Sack”: Not all authorities support
“Tidak Makan’s” placing of “medicine”
amongst the three “most often mispro-
nounced words in the English tongue” (B.
6/7/'55). True, Fowler plumps
emphatically for the omission of the first
“i,” but Collins and the Modern Standard
English Dictionary allow both pronunci-
ations : with and without the middle
syllable. For a mispronounced word to
take its place I submit that most over-
worked of all modern words “definitely.”
Not only do the vast majority of its users
sound an “a” instead of the last “i” but
most of ’em write it the same way. Try
it on the kids and work up to the office
taipist.
“Canuck”: The “Newcastle” issue
marked Australia’s debut in really good-
class stamps. The reproduction of State
stamps, excellent, especially the W.A.
black. The Red Cross, Railways and
Rotary issues, mediocre. The U.S.A.
Memorial was outstanding; and Cobb
and Co. balanced, simple and direct.
However (Switzerland notwithstanding),
the world’s most beautiful stamp is the
10 cent Canadian showing the Eskimo in
a kayak on a glassy sea with the vague
outline of an iceberg in the background.
I lived for many years in Arctic Canada ;
my first word, on seeing this stamp, was
“True.”
❖ ❖ *X*
“Strict Veg.”: Olympic visitors will
have some compensation for Melbourne’s
dismal Sundays. Under the sponsorship
of the Games-committee a leading bar-
tender has confected an Olympian cock-
tail, the initials of whose ingredients form
the word “Olympic.” They are orange-
juice, lime-juice, yolk of eggs, maraschino,
Pernod, ice and Chartreuse. It will be
sold to visitors at ss. a pop.
♦♦♦
“Avoc”: An A.B.C. usage which I shall
condemn to my dying day is the use of
the phrase, perhaps a score of times a day,
“Australian eastern time.” It should be
“Eastern Australian time.” The A.B.C.’s
use of the other way round is with the full
knowledge that when a number of Univer-
sity professors were appealed to some
years ago they condemned it unanimously.
ijt ijt
“Quondong”: It’s not hard to reconcile
the slang-term “brick” for the reddish
ten-pound note (B. 22/6/’55), but whence
comes “spin” for a five-pound note, and
“flag” for the pound-note? Maybe the
fivers’ appellation has some connection
with swy, but, with the inverted meanings
of other slang-terms in mind, maybe it’s
not so simple as all that.
♦j %
“Benbow”: My friends Arrowsmith
and Fletcher are not connected with
archery. Fisher manages a bank, but pre-
serves the family tradition as an amateur
each weekend. The only one whose occu-
pation can be inferred from his name (B.
29/6/’55) is Miller, a bachelor to whom
can be applied the old stave:
There is a jolly miller who lives by himself,
As the wheel goes round he makes his pelf;
One in the hopper and another in the bag,
As the wheel goes round he makes his grab.
He is a ticket-agent for the Queensland
lottery.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bun”: Another cause of blood-
pressure in the home is the tin of
potted-meat put up by some food-
processers. The metal lid is so hard that
one needs a hammer to make an ordinary
tin-opener penetrate it, then a vice to hold
the can down—otherwise it turns in your
hand when working the opener round.
In pre-war days we could buy a tin of
devilled-ham put up by an American
firm labelled: ‘Top of can thin tin. May
be opened with a penknife.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: Amenities of the Queen City
of the South. At the entrance to a build-
ing in Collins-place, Melbourne, is a
chain and hook to which mothers can
hitch their prams to prevent them
slithering away on the sloping footpath.
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.A.M.”: Paid a visit to the re-
modelled Oxley Library in William-street,
Brisbane, which houses most of Queens-
land’s historical records; for me, the
scene of many hours of research some
years ago. In those days it was dark,
cramped and cluttered. The new library
is light and colorful, the books well-
displayed, and a neat and comprehensive
card-index system makes the documents
easy of access. My one criticism is (hat
the tables, modern in design, may be too
light in weight. I shared one of the larger
tables, with seating accommodation for
four, with a student who was making
copious notes. His industry set up in the
table a constant vibration very unnerving
to anyone else working there. Could only
hope the young man leaned on his pen
more heavily than most.
“El Arem”: The department-store was
fitted with the usual gadgets for collecting
cash and disbursing change, and the shop-
assistant sent off the docket through a
tube in the ordinary way. Then she bent
down below the counter. “Saves time,”
she explained as she handed me my
change from a box of coppers she kept
there.
“Wusslean”: When a building used by
the Little Theatre Group in South Yarra
(Melbourne) was recently demolished a
crowd collected to witness the removal
of the foundation-stone, rumored to con-
ceal coins and other relics placed there
during its erection in March, 1900. The
building was originally a chapel-of-ease
for the Church of Christ, but although
one of the spectators had been informed
by his wife, who had been present at the
ceremony, that she had herself placed a
florin underneath the stone, a close search
failed to yield even a threepenny-bit. The
theory is that some of the men who put
up the building took the same attitude
as the undertaker’s assistant who was con-
victed the other day of having souvenired
a couple of silver-plated fittings from a
coffin ; his defence was that it was a pity
to see something valuable being put out
of sight underground.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“O’Johnno”: Technicians installing
the new automatic-telephone exchange at
Launceston (Tas.) have had to stop work
every now and then and send away
people with bundles of rabbit-skins,
wallaby-skins, sheep-skins and other
animal outer-coverings. The building
was formerly owned by a firm of wool-
and-skin merchants, and their name con-
tinued to stand out in large letters on the
front. Painters have been called in to
obliterate the trade-legend and give the
technicians a*chance: hide-sellers should
get a better hearing from the P.M.G.’s
telephone-accounts section.
it*
“JJ.A.”: Old traditions die hard. Time
was when car-patches were supplied in a
tin, either the bottom or the lid of which
was perforated for roughing-up the tire
before putting the patch on. The new
plastic containers have the same device,
useless except for striking wax-matches.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: A scene which would have
delighted the lesser novelists of the 19th
century was enacted in a Melbourne
home when a 40-year-old man, for the
fust and only occasion in his life, gazed
on the face of his father, who had died.
The youngest of a large family, he was
handed-over shortly after birth to a child-
less couple, his own parents being poor.
His foster-parents moved to ariother part
of the country. During the last war he
met his eldest brother, who was serving
in the same Army unit, and the relation-
ship became known ; but after the war the
brothers lost contact again, and it was
only through the announcement of the
father’s death that the youngest son learnt
of his brother’s whereabouts. He met
his other brothers and sisters for the first
time at his father’s funeral.
TROGLODITIC DUTY
“A discovery in a cave in South Africa has
produced proof that the earliest known ape-
man (Australopithecus prometheus) used tools.”
A hundred-thousand years ago
The ape-man hung-out in his cave;
He had no worries about dough,
He didn’t need a daily shave.
He never knew what it was like
To swing upon a peak-hour strap;
He paid no licence for his tyke.
Nor to hear groaners at a “mike.”
He read no flapper-paper pap.
He never gazed upon a mate
Whose hair was massed with
butterfly-clips.
He wasn’t called on to locate
Some hook-and-eye, or do up zips.
That ancestor of ours, you’d say
(For that he was, though some resent
it),
Led an idyllic life ; not gay,
But livened by an odd affray.
A cave he’d grab—he didn’t rent it!
Yet every Eden has its snake —
It seems fust one of rules.
And in his case he had to make,
As well as use, some handy tools.
No doubt {as I) he’d have preferred
To 101 l a-drowsing in the sun.
By whom, then, was he thus bestirred ?
One guess—his missus ! Hers the word
Which named the yakka to be done.
i
That ancient relative of mine
Acquired, no doubt, a certain skill;
His tools were primitive in design,
Yet. ordered tasks he could fulfil.
Though modern science I may invoke,
At handling tools which bore or
scrape,
Sever or join, 1 am a joke.
Compared, now, with that ape-like
bloke
I fear I’m much the bigger ape !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Retiring after a full 40 years of naval
service, Captain Alvord Sydney Rosen-
thal. Son of World War I General
Charles Rosenthal, he had only one war-
ship command in War 11, but she was
destroyer Nestor, one of the hardest-
fought of a naturally termagant breed.
In her he chased the Bismarck, helped
escort possibly the most-viciously-attacked
of all Malta-convoys (when Admiral
Somerville signalled: “The convoy must
get through”), took in tow the Sydney
Star (torpedoed in the only hold not
carrying petrol), fought off air-attacks and
brought her next day into a cheering
Valetta Harbor. Then, off Cape St. Vin-
cent, Nestor sighted a U-boat, surfaced.
Shells sent him under, depth-charges sent
him right down. For this kill Rosenthal
got a Bar to the D.S.O. the Malta-convoy
brought him. Back in the Med., escort
to another critically-needed Malta-
convoy, Nestor was opened-up by a stick
of bombs, and had finally to be sunk by
a sMer-destroyer. At war’s end Captain
eff the Dockyard in Sydney, Rosenthal’s
lately been Director of Naval Reserves.
He’ll don bowler-hat at 55.
• •
Literally a flying visit has been made
to Cocos Island by Archdeacon Robert
Freeth of Perth ;he went by Qantas. The
visit, on church-business, was the first
made since responsibility for Cocos and
its 160 parishioners was assumed by the
Archbishop of Perth in response to a
request of the Archbishop of Canterbury
in 1951 ; the flight was made possible by
the Commonwealth Government’s coming
to light with a free return-passage. A tall,
distinguished-looking 69, born in Dublin,
Archdeacon Freeth graduated M.A. from
Cambridge, and for several years was head
of Guildford (W.A.) Grammar. He rowed
for Cambridge, and did much to the
rowing-style of young oarsmen at
Guildford.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Australian geologist E. J.
Harrison (not either of the politicians of
that name) has been selected by
Unesco to aid the. Egyptian Gov-
ernment in searching for underground
water in the desert. Harrison used to be
with the Mines Department in Sydney,
but he had a war-time job locating water-
supplies for troops in the Western Desert,
so he should know where to start search-
ing. He will be at the Desert Institute at
Heliopolis for a year.
• •
Owner of the studious face presented
herewith, Owen Jones has spent a good
deal of his 51 years geologising in the field
over quite a bit of Australia and the
Barrier Reef. An honors-science gradu-
ate of Queensland University, Cambridge
post-graduate, and D.Sc. of Queensland
(1949), he has been passing-on his widely-
gathered knowledge to Queensland Uni.
students since 1941, senior-lecturer in
Geology and Mineralogy, and head of the
’Varsity’s seismological station. His
FOSSILS
special interests have been fossil corals
and fossil plants, the geology of Bris-
bane, earthquakes and the application of
seismology to locating cyclones. A raft
of important scientific office-holdings
include one-time presidency of the Royal
Society of Queensland, last year’s chair-
manship of the Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy and current honorary trea-
surership of the Geological Society of
Australia. Weekends, he’s usually to be
found fossicking in the back-garden.
Twenty-one-odd million pounds is big
money in any country ; General Motors-
Holden’s will use it to expand plants
throughout Australia ; managing-director
Earl Daum (here attached) will spend it.
He had 30 years with General Motors,
travelling extensively in two directions:
horizontally over a sizeable slice of the
earth and vertically up through the
important links of the organisation’s
chain of command. Starting in a humble
way in the New York advertising sec-
tion, he was soon advertising-manager,
then jumped to promoting sales in the
Near East and in Egypt. Shortly he was
sales-manager for South Africa, and early
in War II shifted operations to New
HOLDENS
Delhi, director of the technical centre,
where he co-ordinated all h.q. contacts
between G.M., the Indian Government
and the British, Indian and U.S. forces
fighting in the China-India-Burma
theatre. Next, appointed manager of'
G.M.’s U.S. Army vehicle-rgconditioning
plant in Calcutta, then assistant to the
managing-director in Bombay. New
York saw him again immediately post-
war ; then Nordiska, Sweden, managing-
director. He cast-up in Australia in 1948
to join G.M.-H., with results best
measured by counting (with an abacus)
the Holdens on the road.
• •
From County Clare, 43-year-old Mon-
signor John 'J. Rafferty has donned the
episcopal apron as titular Bishop of
Pharan and Auxiliary Bishop of Perth.
Bom at Killaloe, he trained, for the priest-
hood at St. Kieran’s, Kilkenny, and
reached Perth in 1936, a few months after
consecration. Three years later he was
appointed secretary to the Archbishop.
Since his return from a trip to Ireland in
1948 he’s been Dean of St. Mary’s
Cathedral (Perth) and Chancellor of the
Archdiocese.
• •
This year’s award of the W.A. Royal
Society’s Kelvin medal goes to Dr. H. W.
Bennetts, director of the State Agricul-
tural Department’s health laboratories, for
distinguished service to veterinary science.
He took his doctor’s degree in veterinary
science at Melbourne University, worked
in North Queensland, returned to Mel-
bourne Uni. as lecturer in his subject,
and joined the Westralian Agricultural
Department as veterinary pathologist in
1934. In Westralia he found a solution for
entero-toxacmia in sheep (a disease once
called the Beverley sheep-disease, from
its incidence in that district), and later the
braxy-like disease (a scourge of the
pastoral-industry which had long defied
the efforts of earlier researchers). One-
time councillor and president of the Royal
Society of W.A., he was awarded C.B.E.
in 1948.
• •
First Deputy Vice-Chancellor (newly-
created) of Sydney University, C. R.
Mcßae has been in the Chair of Educa-
tion up on the hill since 1940. He’s a son
of James Mcßae, who, bom near Cres-
wick (Vic.), went on to become Director
of Education in Victoria. The younger
Mac went from Melbourne to London on
a P. and O. scholarship, and over there
collected the degree of Doctor of
Philosophy. In 1932 he ranged afield
again, to the U.S., Canada and England,
on a Carnegie grant, and is off again next
year under the same benefit, to visit
universities -in the same countries. His
pet subject is psychology.
From the Sydney suburb of Banks-
town, leaving a new church-building, to
the also-building John Flynn Memorial
Church at Alice Springs will go Scotch-
byterian minister Archibald Grant, for
long a friend and workmate of Flynn of
the Inland (see page 25 for an on-the-
spot description of the church going up
at the Alice). Hailing from Timaru
(N.Z.), educationally polished at Gosford
(N.S.W.) High School, the prospective
Memorial Church minister was early a
garage-worker, then projectionist (his
people owning the cinema at Wingham,
on the N.S.W. North Coast). Moving
into theology at 23, he had several Sydney
appointments before shifting Centrewards
to Tennant Creek. There he met Flynn,
the start of a friendship which was alive
till the pioneer’s death. In Tennant
Creek chaplain to the Army and civilian
construction-camps building the Stuart
Highway, he entered full-time into Army
chaplaining when the Japs came in, was
in Darwin under the Jap bombings, then
in New Guinea before going ashore at
the landing on Balik Papan with an ack-
ack unit. Between war’s end and 1949
minister in Darwin, he has since then been
at the Bankstown Manse. Forty-four.
• •
“Justin Thyme” farewells a friend:
Gone on at Bondi, Sydney, Harry Horne,
M.L.C., at 82. Born at Leadville (N.S.W.), he
was in turn teacher of a small bush-school,
farmer, and then Labor member for Liverpool
Plains at his first attempt. After a short Par-
liamentary career he resigned in protest against
the proposed Neilson Land Act of the Holman
Government, a step which threatened to wreck
his party. Horne settled-down on his farm
at Old Castle, Leadville, but when his sons
were old enough to look after it he decided to
contest his old seat as an Independent. Minister
for Lands Ashford, holder of the seat, sensed
a threat to his stronghold, and persuaded his
party to offer Horne a seat in the Upper House.
This was accepted, and Horne withdrew his
candidature. A courteous, kindly man, popular
on both sides, he held his place till the end.
In the literary sphere, at the inauguration of
the Commonwealth he won second-prize (first
to Essex Evans) for his “Ode to the Common-
wealth,” this success being repeated last year
with another ode, to commemorate Queen
Elizabeth’s opening of Federal Parliament. In
one direction, although bom and reared on
the land, Harry did not shine. He was a poor
horseman in a district which prided itself on
its bloodstock. In fact, he didn’t always
recognise his own horse, and once, after a
dance, unknowingly rode home safely on the
district’s outstanding buckjumper.
9 9
Dr. E. V. Keogh, leader of the fight
against t.b. in Victoria, is resigning, not
to give himself scope for golf, but for
further medical research. Sixty, his life
as an administrator has synchronised with
marked development in the treatment for
victims of the white plague. In 1950,
when he became director, there were 821
beds and a queue of 350 patients. Today
there are no queues, 1144 beds and a new
sanatorium coming into operation with
250 beds. Keogh claims no particular
crdtiit for this, except that he came in at
the right time, when new drugs, mass
X-ray and a change of attitude by the
Commonwealth to t.b. sufferers came in.
• •
Adelaidean Mick Auld (herewith),
elected first chairman of the recently
formed Australian Wine Research Insti-
tute, has been looking through a glass
darkly for pretty well as long as he can
remember. Immediate past-president of
the Federal Viticultural Council and
chairman of the Royal Agricultural and
Horticultural Society, he belongs to the
fourth generation of a family which has
been engaged in the South Australian
VINES
wine-industry since six years before the
colony’s foundation. His great-granddad,
Patrick Auld, planted vines at Magill, in
the Adelaide hills, in 1842.
Keith Douglas Morris (pictured here)
got into the building-trade when he was
big enough to carry a bag of nails. Now,
head or the firm of the name, he rates as
one of the biggest builders in Queensland.
Sizeable projects on. hand include two
hospitals, and the M.L.C. building in
Brisbane. Since the late war he’s put up
four large colleges, three churches, a
BRICKS.
brewery and a sewage pump-works.
Banks and hotels also bear the Morris
mark. A foundation-member of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Builders and coun-
cillor of the State chapter of the body,
he is, as well, directorialfy connected with
insurance. Was once a champion amateur
wrestler; now is satisfied to wrestle with
a golf-stick and a garden-hoe, * in that
order of appeal.
• •
Already well-known in Australian
shipping, Captain Richard Stannard,
V.C., is to berth in Sydney, marine-
superintendent for the Orient Line. Son
of a master-mariner, the new super, has
been with the Red Duster since 1918,
and with the Royal Naval Reserve since
1929. It was under the White Ensign
(anti-submarine trawler Arab) that he
won his Victoria Cross at Namsos,
Norway, in 1940. D.S.O. was put up in
1943.
9 9
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 53, Arthur Thomas Watts,
business-secretary. As C.O. of the 3rd Field
Regiment, he was one of the youngest C.M.F.
officers to attain rank of lieut.-colonel in the
years between world wars. In the late war
he commanded the 109th Tank Attack
Regiment.
At Armidale (N.S.W.), at 66, Ernest Jewell,
newspaper compositor, lately freelance journal-
ist. His War II efforts earned him the gratitude
of thousands, in Australia, New Zealand and
Britain. With his own son, William, in Jap
hands, Jewell monitored Tokio and Singapore
radio-stations, listening for hours to catch the
broadcast names and home-addresses of other
p.-0.-w. He then wrote to the prisoners
families, and received in return upwards of
8000 letters of appreciation. All told, he
traced 12,600 p.-.0.-w. and civilian internees.
One-time bowls-champion of N.S.W., he was
awarded M.B.E. for his voluntary detective-
work.
In Kalgoorlie, at 53, R. J. Boylen, represen-
tative of (?he South-East Province in the
Westralian Legislative Council since 1947. Born
on the goldfields, he had been a chemist, and
for years a member of the Boulder Municipal
Council.
In Brisbane, at 81, William Kerr McLuckie,
widely connected with Brisbane business and
chairman of directors of Overells, Ltd. He
helped found the Queensland Society for
Crippled Children, presided for the past 20
years, and was promisent in Masonry and
Rotary.
At Singleton (N.S.W.), at 84, Alexander
Morrison, who had owned and edited the local
“Budget” for the past 61 years. Earlier on
Hansard staff, and district coroner at Singleton,
he was the last surviving member of the
founders of the Country Press Association.
In Fremantle, Mrs. Constance Pym, daughter
of Lieut .-Colonel Edward Fox Angelo, who
came to Westralia as military commandant in
1879, was afterwards resident-magistrate at
Broome, and then superintendent of the
Rottnest native-reserve. Her husband, Matthew
Lisle Pym, was head-signalman at the Rottnest
Island Signal Office. Mrs. Pym lived for 49
years on the island, and ran the telephone-
exchange there in World War 11.
In Melbourne, at 78, Fred H. Allan, whose
connection with Australian music goes back to
the last century. His grandfather joined Wilkie,
Webster and Allan 100 years ago; F -H. joined
the partnership as a boy and stayed with it tor
63 years at their Gothic-looking building i
Collins-street, a few months ago demolished oy
fire. He had a passion for the piano, ana
over a 50-years stretch helped to bring all tne
big names in piano-playing to Australia.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 72, the Rev. David
Craig Herron, C.8.E., till his recent resignation
Chancellor of the University of Otago. Farm
worker and railway-clerk before he graduated
B.A. and M.A. from Otago, he went in 1911 to
Glasgow University, but was home m 1910 m
join the N.Z.E.F., chaplain, and to win ML
and Bar. In 1948 St. Andrew’s University, Scot
land, conferred on him his Doctorate oi
Divinity.


THE WINNER!
(A talking-contest between two men was held last weekend in an Alice Springs hotel to decide who was the talking champion of the Northern Territory.)


ABORIGINALITIES
STOCKMAN’S DAYLIGHT
“Time is wasting,” he said, in stockman’s
daylight,
His voice easy and dark, with no urgency.
And 1 saw Time, odd and clear, no thing for
laughter,
A full great golden cheese, rich with sun and
grasses—
But the opal mould crumbled over its riches
Faster than I could reach, and break, and
eat . . .
And again, I saw Time, deep-rooted, a black
oak,
And a core of death ate up through the power
of its trunk ,
Reaching to still the supple, the young
leaf-needles
Before they awoke in singing. The panic beat
Of blood dizzied my ears, and mind fell back
From an end before a beginning: “See! I
have shown you .
Two faces of Time —you know them?” Grey
glance left
The palmful of warm tobacco, saw mouth’s
wried laughter
And eyes’ fear. And I had a man’s answer
In a thirsty land: “Time? An old bottle,
dusty,
On its side, and the golden Scotch drips back
to the earth —
A mellow surprise for old bones of
saltbush . . .”
And laughing he wheeled his car in twin
dew-tracks
Over new sysmus grass to the far town
And left me with waking sunlight and last
goodbyes
Easy and warm, with no urgency.,
s.a. ' Ainslie ‘Anderson.
* * * *
THE first time you see New Guinea
natives playing Rugby football is
an experience.
I was told they’d been taught the game
by district-officers, who felt it would
prove a more sporting way of resolving
tribal differences.
They play well, but they consistently
buck two rules—off-side, and that govern-
ing the number of players.
If a team is getting a licking supporters
are co-opted from the sidelines, until
sometimes the field is stiff with players.
Women are not barred, either. In a
match I saw at Goroka (Central High-
lands) the sexes were fairly evenly
divided. The bucks were in string-kilts
fore and fresh leaves aft, the Marys in
string kilts both fore and aft, plus a
string dilly-bag flapping between their
shoulders (the dilly-bag “handles” are
woven into their hair). All players liber-
ally greased with rancid pig-fat.
It was a spirited affair, but I didn’t see
the end of it —the wind was too
changeable.
Camel Creek.
* * * *
“Maitri”: The arches along the colon-
nade of the old building at Newington
College, Sydney, are adorned with gar-
lands of flowers and the like carved in the
stone. The place was built in 1880, which
makes worthy of note the fact that the
wreaths represent Australian flora —75
years ago most decorations had “Old
Country” inspirations. I have had no
trouble in picking out waratahs, flannel-
flowers, wattle and gumnuts. When these
same arches went up they cost a mere few
pounds each: to raise similar ones today
would run into hundreds.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A reviewer has
debunked the bower-bird, claiming that
"Get in the queue!"
its decorating and painting of its bower
has absolutely nothing to do with art.
How does he know that? At the begin-
ning of the breeding-season magpies con-
gregate and carol, each bird taking its part
like the instruments in a well-trained
orchestra. The debunker would call that,
too, a response to sex-urge ; but still I
ask: Is it art? It would be if the carollers
were young humans serenading each
other. When a man paints a picture of
a beautiful woman for other men to
admire it’s art; when a bower-bird con-
structs a playground and decorates it
with articles whose appearance and
arrangement please it and excite its
mate’s admiration, it’s merely responding
to a sex-urge. All right. But is it art?
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The little leaf-cutting
bee was building. With geometrical pre-
cision she fretsawed a threepenny-sized
threequarter-moon-shaped piece from
the bougainvillea-petal, and with her legs
daintily shaped it into the form of a
hollow “U,” held open-side downwards ;
then she sped for home 40yds. away. At
the nest-hole in the hard clay, the piece
of petal was rolled tighter to fit between
her legs, and she entered. Two minutes
later she emerged. Rising almost verti-
cally on invisible wings, the brown, yellow-
striped body hovered, darted forward,
circled twice, got the “on course” signal,
and made unerringly for the bougainvillea,
to repeat the work-sequence. Digging
elsewhere later, I unearthed a perfect
miniature cigar not iin. long, neatly
wrapped in flimsy heliotrope tissue. This,
then, was the loving work of art, the
finished home of the egg of the leaf-
cutting bee. Reverently I replaced the tiny
embryo.
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: Talking of nice work with
a scythe (B. 22/6/’55), a touring English
cricket-team some years ago played at
Ballarat (Vic.) on a wicket which the
curator had prepared with one of those
formidable weapons. And the pitch was
fast and true.
* * * *
t
“Old-timer”: As you know, a sheep
will suddenly go blind through eating
some weed, or because of pink-eye or
just because it’s a sheep. Try to turn it
on its own and it’ll blunder about and,
before long, adopt you and want to stay
right with you, like this one did. Well,
I was thinking about how touching it
was that the poor, blind animal, terrified
and alone, ran to man for company and
protection. Somehow, that didn’t make
sense. Sheep, blind or not, don’t like man
(unless they are pets), and it became
evident that a blinded sheep in running to
man was simply illustrating ovine
stupidity, since the smell should have told
it I wasn’t a sheep. After pondering this
for a while I sought out the boss-drover
gave notice, and a week later was head-
ing for the big city. Yairs, I’d been in the
sheep game so long I’d -started to smell
like one!
* * * *
“Bass”: W.A. is experiencing what
looks like being one of its coldest winters,
and it’s had some record frosts which
have frozen taps and burst hoses left full
overnight; and that’s brought home a
fact which people in temperate climes
are apt to overlook : that water expands
on freezing. That’s why we have temper-
ate climes. Because water expands on
freezing, ice is lighter than water, and
so floats where the sun can melt it in the
summer; if it didn’t ponds and lakes,
and even seas, would freeze from the
bottom upwards and we’d never be out of
an ice-age. Almost as important is the
effect frosts have in building-up the
world’s cultivable land. Soil is composed
to a large extent of rocks which have
been broken-down by weathering agents,
and here frosts work wonders. Water
which falls as rain or dew penetrates
cracks in rocks, and when a frost comes
that water freezes and expands. Nothing
can stop this expansion. It’s just got to
“Don’t go down , dear — they'll just paw you."
occur ; so the rock splits and splinters,
and some more soil is on the way to being
formed.
* * * *
“Squirrel”: Whence do we get the
colloquialisms “playing possum” and “a*
possum” (meaning a racetrack ring-in)?
Ohe could come from “ringtail,” called
“ringie,” hence “ring-in,” but the other
doesn’t seem to have anything to do
with our own inoffensive tree-climbing
marsupial, and I suspect it’s an American
negroism sprung from the very different
opossum of the U.S. My dictionary
explains that the phrases are derived from
the little fellows' feigning death when
caught, which certainly suggests that
the dictionary bloke never caught a
silvergrey. Still, the papers lately had a
report that® victimising an animal-loving
proprietress, two Darwin possums made
short work of bottles of sweet-sherry,
rum, port and liqueur—smashing them
first and swigging them down. This would
seem to fit in with “playing possum” as
the phrase is used —unless, of course, the
report itself was “a possum” in the other
sense.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: Nice to hear that those
voluntary workers from the Parents and
Citizens’ Association at Bulahdelah
(N.S.W.) did such an efficient job in
building a local school (B. 6/7/’55); it
would be even nicer to be assured that
history did not repeat itself. A Volun-
tary Workers’ Association was formed in
our district to build homes for incapaci-
tated ex-servicemen. In due course a cot-
tage was started, enthusiastic workers
rolling-up to begin operations. Next
weekend brought about half the number ;
fewer turned-up the following week, and
so on. Four tradesmen and a willing, if
somewhat unskilled, parson built the
house from then on. When the cottage
was finished there was a gala opening-
procession, an M.P. to turn the cere-
monial-key, and all the trimmings. The
member’s speech was an inspiring thing,
full of congratulation for Mr. President
and the noble job he and his association
were doing. Five members of the audience
would have appreciated the remarks a
little more if Mr, President had not had
to ask his way to the cottage.
"Saaedi”: Often Willie Wagtail may
be seen riding round on a cow’s back.
The bovine flicks her tail petulantly, with-
out in any way perturbing the pied
jockey, who is after something more sub-
stantial than a cheeky frolic. When the
flies he’s mainly concerned with are not
prevalent, he does not always desert his
meal-ticket Sometimes he may be seen
fluttering round her head, even perching
on her horns —his quarry the insects dis-
turbed by the cow when she browses in
long grass.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Whenever the loco.-shed boss
got wind of a derailment he would jump
on his bike and head for town; conse-
quently the sub-foreman always fell for
the job as captain of the breakdown
gang. Then the sub-foreman heard that
the “fast” was off the line. “This is one
job I won’t be doin’,” he said, and made
a beeline for the boss’s bike to remove
the chain and let the tyres down. Smiling
triumphantly, he searched for the boss.
Ten minutes later the breakdown-train
went out with the scowling sub-foreman
in charge once again, and vowing to
deflate every bike-tyre in the shed at
the next breakdown call. Meantime the
boss rode round the town on the sub-
foreman’s grid.
* * * #
BRICK-BURNERS would see nothing
remarkable in the fact that the fire
of a core-oven didn’t go out for a full
year (B. 22/6/’55).
The fires of Hoffman or Hardy-patent
kilns (in which common bricks are burnt)
are lit when the kilns are completed and
do not go out again unless industrial
trouble causes the brickyard to close-
down.
The kilns are shaped something like
an enormous brick oblong around a long
narrow one which encloses the main flue.
In the outer space the bricks are “set” —
stacked honeycomb fashion so that the
fire, fed with powdered-coal dropped
through small holes in the brickwork
overhead, burns through the bricks and
sweeps on into holes leading to the main
flue.
Every 12ft. or so thick brown paper
is pasted completely over the set bricks,
sealing-off the draught and preventing
the fires from roaring forward and en-
gulfing the setters ahead, or licking back
on to the draggers as they take away the
finished bricks.
Thus, like a game of ring-a-rosies in
slow motion, the cycle goes on year after
year: setters ahead, draggers behind, fire
in between.
In boom times, Friday finds the
draggers almost on the fires. Then it is not
remarkable to see barrows or even motor-
lorries catch fire from the heat in the
bricks. But the weekend brings time to
the burner’s aid, and by Monday he has
been able to move the fires on, leaving the
bricks behind cool —well, cool by a
dragger’s standard, anyway.
H. C. B.


LA VINA
&
m
Perfect craftsmanship which the particular will
appreciate ... Beauty in design the discriminat-
ing demand . . . Faithful reliability based on
Swiss Chronometer standards . . . Priced to
suit keen judges of value.
Here are illustrated two new Lavina models in
' the modern trend of larger watches for men and
daintier watches for ladies.
Lavina prices range from—■
Men’s: £l4/5/-. Ladies’: £l4/10/-
LAVINA
gsd
Since 1852
- .<:• ' 'i
130.62
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
i
3ACKSOM4
OSULIJVAV
' v &»s bw'ST
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Ply. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KEROSENE TILLEY PRESSURE
Read.
\\ i /
m
/ /\ \ v
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF - USE IT/NOROUTOFPOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY iiio PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
'T'HE homestead of a cattle-run in the
A Taroom (Q.) district has a living-
room floor of pit-sawn cedar on which
are various mats, among them calf-skins
and a handsome dingo-pelt. The cattle-
dogs, with the run of the house, sleep
indiscriminately on bought mats and
calf-skins alike, but they can’t be
persuaded to put even a paw on the dingo-
skin. If forced into a position where
there’s no other way of getting past
they’ll hurdle it. —“J. 8.”
* * * #
“Mat’s Mate”: It didn’t take us long to
discover that the cocky kept a sharp eye
on us. No matter what part of the farm
he sent us to work there’d always be
himself, or his missus, or one of his chil-
dren hanging about. Even his dashed
cows would come up and look at us, and
Mat had his suspicions about a brown
hen that insisted on perching just outside
our hut. One night, at tea, Mat casually
remarked, “I see one of them travelling
eye-blokes will be in town next week.”
The boss looked at him. “Why, have you
got eye-trouble?” he asked. “No,” Mat
came back, “but you have!” When the
argument died down we were out of work
again.
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: The chief-engineer who
stopped an inrush of water by sitting on
the sea-cock (B. 8/6/’55) reminded me of
a Maori among the troops we had to
sneak ashore one night from a land-
ing-barge in the Pacific. He told
me that long ago the pa of
his ancestors was attacked and
the houses set on fire. Some of the
defenders managed to break out and ran
to the canoes, only to find the paddles
had been removed and a hole chopped in
the bottom of every craft. A girl sat over
the hole in a canoe to block it, the rest
of the party piled in, the men'used their
clubs as paddles, the women and children
bailed with their cupped hands ; and they
got away. We landed the troops before
dawn and by the time I got a chance to
take notes I’d forgotten every name
except the girl’s—Wahine-Rona-Nui,
which can be translated as “Miss Rona
the Very Fat.” Can anyone tell me if this
legend has appeared in print and, if so,
where 1 can find it?
* * * *
“Zanda”: Scientists or no, “S.G.” (B.
13/7/’55) is adamant that all animals get
their 40-winks one way or another. A
Saturday-afternoon petitioner would find
a long list of signatures to endorse the
theory that horses are capable of going
to sleep at the gallop. But, then, the
scientists would want to take a swab,
acquit the nag, and throw a diagnosis of
catalepsy at the jockey. Proof that you
can’t win—not against a scientist, any-
way.
* * . * *
“The Rumpus”: Fifty years ago, with
less than a fiver in my pocket, I left my
native spot in Queensland —a little hamlet
of snugged-in, weatherbeaten houses like
old men, goat-scented, clinging to the
last vestige of life. The waters of the
Pacific lapped at its feet, and at its back
the opaque distances piled up into the
vastness of Nowhere. Nobody living
there seemed to want money, and the
years passed in drowsiness. Still with
small money, I returned to the old town
to gamer some of its contented serenity.
What a shock I got! Its feet were now
dipping right into the ocean and its rear
spread fanwise like a peacock’s tail. The
whole neutral outlook had disappeared.
Money was everywhere; £-notes mere
chickenfeed. I sought the hotel-recep-
tionist. “Could you tell me,” I asked,
“if Mr.' J: D. Brown still fives here?”
“J. D. Brown & Sons,” she answered
smartly. “Directory at your elbow. Shall
I call a taxi, sir?” ... Well, native spot, it
was nice seeing you!
* * *
“Swelpme”: Typing near the glassed-
in side of the veranda, I got a shock as
something black whizzed past my face,
thudded against the glass and fell on my
table. The dazed bird made no attempt
to fly when I walked across and lifted him
off his perch. A scissors-grinder (fan-
tailed fly-catcher), he lay inert on my
hand, feet up, as I regretfully took him
in to show the wife. “He’ll five,” was the
prompt prognosis. “Two or three birds
have done that. Just put him down on the
table; you’ll see.” For several minutes
he sat with claws clenched, too stunned
to realise he was not on a perch, then
suddenly flew to the improvised veranda-
clothesline. Within seconds he was
skipping jauntily (if a little slap-happily)
along the line. Suddenly he took off—
straight into the glass again! Experience
had taught him nothing. Happily, this
time he struck the pane at an angle and
was diverted to the great—and glassless—
outdoors.
“Pat”: The barramundi ( Scleropages
Jeichhardti), which inhabits the Dawson,
Nogoa and Mackenzie Rivers in Central
Queensland, is mentioned in Ogilby’s
Commercial Fishes as also being found in
all the rivers of eastern Queensland, the
Gulf, Darwinia and West Papua. Having
fished most Queensland streams, I claim
that the barramundi is confined exclu-
sively to the central tributaries and con-
tiguous lagoons of the Fitzroy. The book
probably confuses S.l. with the giant
Palmer perch {Lates calcarifer ) abundant
in the sea, estuaries and lower freshwater
reaches of coastal streams northwards
from the Mary. The Nogoa barramundi
is a darker olive-green than the brighter
Dawson fish, and the two to three reddish
spots on the large, ornate scales are less
“DO you think shell need heels , too ?”
conspicuous. Barramundi, surface-
feeders, are taken by casting a thin strong
line, with hook and sinker a few inches
below a float, amid the small schools, and
hauling in rapidly. They go up to 3ft.
long.
* * * *
“Baksac”: In Parramatta Park
(N.S.W.), within 20yds of the English oak
which is picketed-off and marked with an
obelisk as being the fatal tree against
which Lady Fitzßoy’s carriage collided
(Fairfax in his Historic Roads Round
Sydney raises the doubt as to whether the
right one was marked), there stands an
even more interesting oak. Fire has
gutted its 20in. bole, leaving it as an
open-sided cylinder with walls measuring
less than lin. through. The main bough
is hoMowed-out with a charcoal-cored
pipe 6in. in diameter passing right
through it; obviously the pipe formed a
funnel for the fire which burnt the heart
out of the trunk. And yet the tree still
lives! What’s more, at time of writing
leaves are still growing on the straggling
branches, though oaks are deciduous. It
seems incredible that a tree so mutilated
could survive. “Hearts of oak” as a
symbol of courage and endurance was
obviously a very apt one.
* * * *
“Abdul Assiz”: Use of platinum as a
catalyst in the oil-industry is nearly as
old as the industry itself, and it is rather
surprising that in England, of all places,
this should be the ground for claiming
special virtue for “platinum-processed
petrol” (B. 6/7/’55). Probably all the
nationally advertised brands include
platinum as an ingredient. In one
of its more modern applications
platinum has been used for “plat-
forming” petrol in a refinery near
Sydney for almost five years, and its use
will be routine in all the new Australian
petroleum - processing plants. Hackh
describes a catalyst as “a substance which
changes the speed of a chemical reaction,
probably by taking part in it, but which
is formed again as a reaction product;
hence is again present in its original con-
centration at the end of the reaction.” It
is controversial, however, whether cata-
lysts such as platinum or gold take any
active part in a reaction. They are,
therefore, more correctly described as
mechanical catalysts—substances influenc-
ing the speed of a chemical reaction
without themselves undergoing change.
FAIR JOANNA
[From “Songs of Parramatta.”]
Fair Joanna was my name,
Rosehill was my station;
Every Sunday morning fine
I viewed the Lord’s Creation.
All the week from dawn to dark
I sang so light and airy—
A convict I, but none so spry
In John MacArthur’s dairy.
Lighter lashes were my lot
Than others of my fortune,
For Tollgate Tom, the overseer,
Joanna did importune
To be his love—but skies above,
The only man I cherish
Lies over there, and in our hair
Creeps kind earth of the parish.
N.S.W.
PATRICIA FRANCIS.


NOW OPEN!
' , \
THE
SYDNEY WATER
4|% LOAN j
’ * ■ • - /...
Serving 2,069,000 people, the Sydney Water Board is one of Australia’s major public utilities —the capital
value of its assets exceeds £100,000,000. The Board invites you to assist in carrying out its current water
and sewerage construction programme by investing in this £1,250,000 Loan for 10 or 20 years.
THE LOAN IS SECURED ON THE BOARD'S INCOME AND IS GUARANTEED
BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Tasmania and Western Australia.
,
How to Invest Today!
Ask for a Prospectus and application form at any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank. Applications
may also be made at the Sydney Water Board office or through your Stockbroker. Subscriptions, interest, and
repayment of principal at maturity are free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus. You may pay a 10% deposit
and the balance by instalments.
Issued at par, Loan No. 136 is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., and will close on or
before Bth August, 1955.
BOARD
Business, Rollery, Etc.
LONDON SHARE-BOOM
FOR over three months
London sharemarkets have
been buoyant and for most of
that time there has been a boom
on ’Change. And this, it has so
often been said, in spite of pol-
itical and industrial uncertainties.
The two main political events
—the Budget and the general
election —were both discounted,
the one fully and the other sub-
stantially. But the industrial set-
backs in the form of repetitive
strikes have not seriously affected
prices. Why? Simply because the
demand for securities, once the
return of a Conservative Gov-
ernment was established, was
because of, rather than in spile
of, strikes, wage-increases and
all the economic unaccountables
which, in other times, would
have caused investors to be
wary.
The truth is . that anyone
with money to safeguard (and
that means church finance-
committees, colleges and insti-
tutional investors as well as the
comparatively modest capitalists)
was so conscious of “creeping
inflation” as to scamper, hell-
f or-leather, after first-class
equities. And probably an
unsophisticated section of the
public has added its cumulative
force to the upward share-price
movement simply because prices
have already risen attractively.
This flight from fixed-interest
has not only affected the gilt-
edged market but now leaves
the building-societies feeling the
pinch. It is felt that both deposit
and lending rates of interest will
have to be raised.
After the election, the con-
fidence springing from the pros-
pect of a good four years reason-
ably free from interference
boosted equity-share values. But
by no means uniformly. Apart
from selected “market leaders”
which continue to hold the
limelight, appreciation has
seemed to be confined to certain
industries, with steel and
engineering as the most popular.
Opinion in the City is sharply
divided. One opinion is that a
balanced portfolio of carefully-
selected ordinary shares can’t go
wrong in the long-run. Another,
to be found more among the
public investors, is that one
can’t be toQ careful. They look
askance at anything other than
tiptop equities, with low yields,
very well covered by earnings.
The unavoidable inference is
that, in the absence of a more
severe monetary policy, they
cannot confidently rule out the
possibility of a crisis in the
months ahead, perhaps arising
from the balance-of-payments,
perhaps from inflation and high
spending on the home market.
The banks, though they have
no complaints about the year's
trading, are very upset about
the insufficiency of the bank-rate
policy. It seems that the extra
cost of overdrafts has not been
a deterrent to borrowers.
Another grouse arises from a
feature of credit-restriction
peculiar to our times. The banks
are ordered to watch their ad-
vances carefully, but this edict
does not, it seems, apply to loans
to the nationalised industries.
In order to preserve the liquid-
ity ratio they have had to sell
most of their short-term bonds
at a loss. Decisions have now to
be made about the longer-dated
securities, the realisation of
which would involve a heavier
loss. They look, not over-hope-
fully, to Mr. Butlef' for a lead
and would undoubtedly welcome
an effective check to the public s
spending-power.
Australia, Too
Australian sharemarkets are
following a pattern rather like
that in London and in the face
of similar warning lights. Each
country has its own particular
influences, but in general there
is much that is common. A
feature of both economies is the
balance-of-payments position,
growing more difficult in each
country, and rising interest-rates,
with the banks finding it hard
to accommodate their customers.
On the financial page of the
“Sydney Morning Herald” of
July 19 three Australian com-
panies of good standing were
offering 6i p.c. for money on
conditions varying in security
and in terms from five to 9-10
years. And so buoyant was the
sharemarket that in the case of
two of the companies concerned
investors were buying their ordi-
nary shares to give a yield much
lower than that.
Australian population is grow-
ing fast. On March 31 it was
estimated at 9,149,477, an in-
crease of 202,438 in a year. And
there is a lengthening lag in
many types of constructional
activity. Though employment
is overfull, an enormous amount
of work remains to be done.
But in order to get it done
without a major upheaval in the
economy it needs to be done at a
fairly stable cost. Internal costs,
if they rise too fast, disrupt our
external trade position, and
create other acute economic,
political and social problems.
The fall in export prices, ex-
tending from wool and wheat to
butter and eggs, coincides with
pressure on the internal cost-
level arising from increased
marginal wages-payments and
other things, including higher
domestic prices required for
butter in view of the fall in
export prices. This squeeze is
becoming more acute as unions
press for higher wages generally
and strikes affect costs of pro-
duction.
Britain’s costs of production
in most cases are much lower
than those in Australia.
The London sharemarket
seems to be keenly conscious of
“creeping inflation” and desires
to get into equities and out of
money and fixed - interest
securities.
“ Here—have a tailor-made."
In theory that is sound, so
long as too much is not paid for
equities. In Australia all sorts of
“controls” have prevented the
holder of ord. shares in indus-
trial companies from reaping due
compensation (in dividends) for
the depreciation in the buying-
power of paper-money. #
The impact of inflation in Aus-
tralia is likely to be, first of all,
against profits, through higher
costs. Prices usually follow
costs. And should State Gov-
ernments reintroduce price-
control it may be more difficult
still for company incomes to keep
pace with inflating costs.
Many problems confront Aus-
tralia. Import-rationing is now
with us. A further deterioration
of the costs position may revive
pressure for a devaluation of the
Australian pound. These things,
in their effects, might insulate
Australian industry from the
effects of sharpening overseas
competition. But they would
take further value from the Aus-
tralian pound, and in politics,
quite rightly, those are fighting-
words.
New G.M.-H. Plans
The greater portion of the £2l
million which General Motors-
Holden’s proposes to spend on
expansion during the next five
years will be laid out on the new
153-acre site at Dandenong,
about 16 miles out of Mel-
bourne. Vehicle - assembly
operations are expected to be
transferred to Dandenong dur-
ing the first half of 1956, and
after that the body-assembly and
vehicle-assembly of all Holdens
for sale in Victoria will be com-
pleted there. About 40,300
Holden, Vauxhall, Bedford,
Chevrolet and Pontiac cars and
G.M.C. trucks will be assembled,
painted and trimmed at
Dandenong each year for distri-
bution throughout Victoria and
Tasmania.
When the Victorian assembly
is transferred to Dandenong the
Fishermen’s Bend plant will be
used exclusively for the fabrica-
tion of engines and mechanical
components, and £6.6 million is
to be spent on new plant there.
At Dandenong a new
Frigidaire factory will be put up
at a cost of £4 million, and a
new N.A.S.C.O. parts and
accessories warehouse-and-office
will also be erected. A con-
siderable outlay is also contem-
plated in Queensland.
It is aimed to make 100,000
Holden cars and utilities each
year by 1958. Present output is
65,000 a year, and there is a 12-
months’ lag in deliveries. Present
refrigerator-production is 18,000
a year; capacity is being raised
to 40,000.
Of the £2l million to be spent
throughout Australia, £l6 million
would be expended on new
plant, the rest on buildings, etc.
The money would come from
ploughed-back profits, and would
bring post-war expenditure on
new plant and facilities up to
£4B million. General Motors-
Holden’s will vie with B.H-P.
for the honor of being the
largest industrial organisation in
Australia. ...
The G.M.-H. move will
stimulate interest in Dandenong
as an industrial centre. A
number of smaller factories,
including Westminster Carpets,
are already established there.


Divorce I^otice
IN THE SUPBEME COUET OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BEUCE EDWAED GEAEY late of
77 Sussex Street Sydney New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that HAZEL
JOYCE GEAEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1318 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend, you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Begistry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 3rd October
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSES. BOBEBT-
SON PAEKHILL EOFE & MOFFITT,
Solicitors, 12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
in the said State. —J. DOUGHAN,
Eegistrar.
Missing Friend
NICHOLLS, Ernest Thomas, formerly of
59 Denison Street, Amcliffe, who dis-
appeared from his home in October, 1947,
or any person knowing his whereabouts
since that date, please communicate with
the PUBLIC SOLICITOB, 104 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
OLYMPIC
CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES LIMITED
incorporated under the Companies Act 1938 of the State of Victoria
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
£10,000,000
fg
966‘985‘93
nvxidva aanssi
Issue of 1,500,000
o
CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE
SHARES OF £1 EACH AT PAR
• THE OLYMPIC TYRE &
RUBBER CO. PTY. LTD.,
which commenced production
in 1934, has made more than
10,000,000 tyres for passenger
cars, trucks, buses, tractors,
aircraft, etc. About one third
of the tyres used by Australian
motorists are Olympic.
»15
523
• THE BEAUREPAIRE TYRE
SERVICE, founded in 1922,
has 19 tyre retreading and
automobile service stations in
Victoria, South Australia and
New South lts modern
equipment includes Australia's
largest mould for retreading
giant tyres for road graders,
etc.
PAYABLE
(a) In full on application; or
(b) 5/- per share on application; 5/- per share on 31st January,
1956; 5/- per share on 31st July, 1956; 5/- per share on 31st
January, 1957; with the right to pay outstanding instalments in
full on any half-yearly instalment date.
DISPOSITION OF THE ISSUE
Shares '
Reserved for Stockholders 750,000
Reserved for Employees .... .. 50,000 f
Taken firm by underwriters .... 200,000
For public subscription 500,000 -
Total:
1,500,000
APPLICATION LISTS MOW OPEN
OBIECTS OF THE ISSUE
The capital is required by the Company to finance the expanding needs of its
operating subsidiaries, by the purchase of plant and equipment for their
factories, and the provision of additional warehouse space in capital cities.
ASSETS BACKING AND DIVIDEND COVER:
Report by Cooper Brothers, Way & Hardie, Chartered Accountants (Australia)
shows net tangible assets of £6,845,453, equal to £4/2/10 for each
preference share of £1 after this issue, and shows profits for 1954 sufficient
to cover the annual preference dividend charge 141/2 times.
DIRECTORS
SIR FRANCIS JOSEPH EDMUND BEAUREPAIRE, 2 Fordholm Road,
Hawthorn, Victoria, Company Director (Chairman).
CHARLES SINCLAIR BUTT, 19 Hamilton Road, Malvern, Victoria,
Company Director (Vice-Chairman).
CHARLES STRONG GRAINGER, Oravel Avenue, East Malvern, Victoria,
Company Director.
HERBERT ATKINS CHALLINGSWORTH, 25 Riversdale Road, Hawthorn,
Victoria, Company Director.
ARTHUR RICHARD HORTON, 14 Harwood Street, Elwood, Victoria,
Solicitor.
lAN FRANCIS BEAUREPAIRE, 3 Berkeley Street, Hawthorn, Victoria,
Company Director.
• OLYMPIC CABLES PTY..
LTD., produces a comprehen-
sive range of wires, flexibles
and cables for home, office,
factory and industrial needs,
and also lead-covered cables
for heavy-duty power reticula-
tion on electrification projects.
ill!
• OLYMPIC GENERAL PRO-
DUCTS PTY. LTD., formed in
1949, is a merchandising and
marketing unit of the Olympic
group. It markets rubber
flooring and tiles, footwear
soling material, power trans-
mission and conveyor belting,
garden and industrial hose,
and reclaim rubber.
Registered Office of the Company: Cross Street, West Footscray, Victoria
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION upon which the directors will proceed to allotment
is £500,000. This amount is required to be provided for
(a) Expenses of the issue (including underwriting commission and brokerage)
estimated at £70,000.
(b) Working capital which will be used mainly for advances to the company's
subsidiaries or otherwise for their benefit, £430,000.
No amount is to be provided for the matters aforesaid or for the purchase
price of property, or for repayment of monies borrowed in respect of any
such matters otherwise than out of the proceeds of the issue.
APPLICATIONS must be made on the form of application included with the
prospectus.
PROSPECTUS: Copies of the full prospectus with forms of application for
shares may be obtained from branches of Australia and New Zealand Bank
Ltd. throughout Australia, and from members of any recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia.
BANKER FOR THE ISSUE: Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd. will receive
applications at branches throughout Australia.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON.
(THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 137 OF THE COMPANIES ACT OF THE
STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES HAVE NOT BEEN FULLY COMPLIED WITH
IN THIS ABRIDGEMENT OF THE PROSPECTUS OF THIS ISSUE DATED 4th
JULY, 1955, NOR DOES IT FULLY COMPLY WITH THE SECTIONS RELATING
TO PROSPECTUSES IN THE COMPANIES ACTS OF VICTORIA, QUEENSLAND,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND WESTERN AUSTRALIA.)
London aiunail
From Herbert Holman
the breeze drops, the
front at Margate still reeks
faintly of beer and vinegar. An
odd cluster of cockney merry-
makers may even be seen, on
closing-time, paying active
homage to the agility of Mother
Brown. But these are dying
vestiges of a bygone age. The
roisterers are exceptional, and
so are the devotees of whelks,
cockles and jellied eels. Like the
fair on Hampstead Heath, the
harbor at Margate is a last out-
post of traditional cockneyism.
But it is a mile to the east, in
the one-time posh suburb of
Cliftonville, that the changes
wrought by the post-war social
revolution are most clearly
marked.
This resort, justifiably claimed
to be the healthiest in the ’south
of England, developed with the
rise of the middle-class. The Vic-
torian merchant or man-of-busi-
ness, comfortably off on £5OO a
year or less, began to send his
wife, family and unattached
female relations down fear the
summer, joining them at week-
ends by the “husband’s boat.”
The bracing air and splendid
position led to the building of
resplendent hotels for the well-
to-do.
Decline, which already had
set in between the wars, is now
complete except .for a modified
demand on the part of delegates
to the numerous conferences
held at Margate.
Four of the best hotels have
been bought (for a song, it is
said, since they could not be
made to pay) by Mr. “Billy”
Butlin, M.8.E., who started his
project of “All-in Holidays” 20
years ago by building a chalet-
camp at Skegness—and all be-
cause he had spent a dismal
weekend in a “typical” board-
ing-house, at Southend.
His organisation now extends
to some eight coastal resorts and
is growing. It commands the
services of the best-known dance-
bands, entertainers and radio
and television personalities,
offering a lively, hearty, excit-
ing, gregarious and entirely
wholesome holiday to those who
like that kind of .thing—the
500,000 men, women and
children who are lucky enough to
have made their reservations in
time.
Machine Age
There are other significant
changes in a district which, for
years, has depended almost
wholly on the holiday trade.
Neither the high cost of modern
existence nor the wishes of the
residents permit of living for
nine months of the year on the
proceeds of three. The Isle of
Thanet (it was an island 1500
years ago) is classified, like
several other coastal districts,
as a “depressed area,” although
there are certainly no physical
signs of hardship.
Modern factories, often sub-
sidiaries of well-known con-
cerns, are to be noticed on the
outskirts. One hears of “key-
men” arriving in advance to
organise and recruit. The flat
marshy area between Ramsgate
and Deal is to be developed as
an industrial site and port. Here,
between Richborough and Re-
culver, was once the mile-wide
channel that separated the Isle of
Thanet from the mainland. All
the Roman legions landed and
re-embarked at Richborough,
now three miles inland because
of silting-up. And they were
followed over the centuries by
Hengist, St. Augustine and King
Canute. Apart from these rich,
historical associations the dis-
trict has little other interest, but
it is astonishing to notice that
the land reclaimed from the sea
so long ago still looks as if it has
not been lived on.
Some consequences of this
practical, beneficial and most
commendable planning may be
rather disturbing. Are we to
become a nation of technicians
and operatives, with everything
else geared to the industrial
caucus ar>i its bosses? Shall we
lose all our local dialects, peculi-
arities and crafts? We seem to
be going that way, the entire
country becoming urban and
homogeneous, and its broad
pattern of life being governed by
such levellers as mass-produc-
tion and television.
These qualms were given sub-
stance by the presence of dele-
gates to a conference on auto-
mation —something else quite
new and mysterious. We were
soon to leam that Britain is
considered to be behind other
nations in this science and that
there would be no stopping its
advancement. But what we
could not fail to notice was the
seriousness, self-containment and
remarkable earnestness of the
delegates. A body of men rapt,
purposeful and, apparently,
humorless.
So they seemed. But it may
well be that their preoccupation
was not so much over their
science as over its social ramifi-
cations —how to convince the
worker that a press-button
factory is in his own interests.
Greeks “Über Alles”
Giraudoux’s allegory, “Tiger at
the Gates” (Apollo Theatre), has
taken 20 years to reach London.
A diplomat by profession, Girau-
doux knew what was looming
and, in order to express himself
prophetically, wrapped up his
warnings in the Trojan legend.
And ffie play’s original title,
“La Guerre de Troie n’Aura
pas Lieu,” is more indicative of
its message than the translation.
The “Tiger,” revealed as
destiny, is obviously a euphem-
ism for Hitlerism, and the cer-
tainty of war is the inevitable,
classic doom that overhangs the
tragedy. Returning victorious
from the battlefield, the Trojan
Hector is sick of war and deter-
mined that peace is worth any
effort, any sacrifice. He conspires
to rid Troy of Helen, assiduously
smothers jingoistic nationalism,
reaches a statesmanlike rap-
prochement with Ulysses, bears
personal insults without flinching
and, to save further bloodshed,
stabs a warmongering Trojan
Senator.
Here is the tragic irony, for the
dying Senator cries out that he
has been murdered by the
Grecian Ajax. The war is on. Try
as you might, runs the moral,
right and reason and all your
constructive work are sheer
vanity before man’s quick
stupidity and ridiculous pride.
So much has happened during
those 20 years that this parable
has a distracting impact upon
the playgoer, who finds that it
“dates” self-consciously and
that somehow he cannot quite
reconcile it to the age of the H-
bomb. But dramatically it is
interesting, if slow to take shape.
There are two superb perform-
ances : Michael Redgrave’s
Hector, noble, beautifully-
delivered and entirely in the
heroic mould; and Walter Fitz-
Gerald’s man -of - the - world
Ulysses. Christopher Fry’s
translation is direct and effec-
tive. Harold Clurman’s produc-
tion rather wobbles between
classicism in style and realism
in characterisation, but it is bold
and as intellectual as the play.
This realism is surely carried
too far in Diane Cilento’s Helen
of Troy. She is ravishing to
look at but is made to speak and
behaye like a call-girl who has
ingratiated herself into the royal
favor by way of the back-stairs.
Loudon Sainthill has designed
rich and lovely costumes and an
austere, sharp-edged set which
gives a strange, uneasy tang to
the production.


Safeguard ] your Estate
88
2MJ
1b Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
TR.21.3S
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor o)
your Will.
Advantages: Security . . . Continuity . . . Expert Management . . .
Impartiality ... Accessibility ... Secrecy .. . Continuous Audit.. . ModeraU
Charges . . . Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £971,002.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd.
'THE Prestige group is steadily emerg-
ing from the troubles it ran. into when
it launched out into the woollen- and
rayon-fabrics and textile-printing and
-dyeing businesses after the war, thus
enhancing the possibilities of the scrip as
a holding proposition. There is £1,005,028
of capital to feed in 103,050 8 p.c. and
200,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs., all of £1 each,
and 2,807,912 ss. ords. At March 31 last
reserves totalled £1,104,544, subject to
£19,384 of intangibles.
The market prices the ords. at 7s.
(6s. 2d. a year ago) to return a satisfac-
tory 6.4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. The 8 p.c. and 5 p.c. prefs.
at 235. lid. and 14s. 6d. respectively yield
6.6 p.c. and 7 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£7 prefs. (both lots rank equally for
capital) and 12s. 6d. ords.
The group consists of parent and. four
subsidiaries —Prestige Fabrics, Ltd. (paid
capital £500,000, of which £lOO,OOO
carries a cumulative 5 p.c.), Dyecraft, Ltd.
(paid capital £250,000, including 75,000
£l5 p.c. prefs.), Johnson Bros. Pty., Ltd.,
throwsters and crepers to the textile trade,
and Prestige (N.Z.), Ltd. (paid capital
£205,781, of which £30,000 is 6 p.c. prefs.).
In each case the prefs. are held by the
public and the ords., or most of them, by
the parent.
After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests, including pref. div. requirements
in the subsidiaries, and allowing £132,484
(up £25,039) for depreciation and setting
aside £119,602 (up £12,539) for taxation,
combiiled net earnings of the group
stepped-up by £22,290 last term, reaching
£185,499:
Prestige and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves, t
£ P-c. £ £ £
1951.. 259 8&5 10 p.c. = 57,243 65,016 816,898
Share premiums, £80,935 .. .. 897,833
Profit sale assets, £10,591 .. .. 908,424
Add sundry adjustments, £27,894 .. 936,318
To outside interests, £10,982 .. 925,336
Loss.
1952.. 65,062 8&5 5 p.c. = 46,762 813,512
Share premiums, £7,588 .. .. 821,100
Net addition reserves, £12,578 .. 833,678
Profit.
1953.. 620 8&5 7*p.c. = 70,892 69,728 903,406
Net addition reserves, £5149 .. 908,555
1954.. 163.209 8& 5 7* p.c.- 70,892 92,317 1,000,872
Tax overprovided, £2513 .. ..1,003,385
Net reduction reserves, £2918 ..1,000,467
1955.. 8& 5 9 p.c.= 81,422 104,077 1,104,544
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
t Subject to intangibles, now £19,384.
The £185,499 disregards movements in
reserves interlined in the table. It was
enough to pay the pref. divs. (£18,244)
and show 23.8 p.c. on the £701,978 of ord.
capital, compared with 20.6 p.c. and 17.4
p.c. for the two preceding years. The div.,
which had come down from 12y p.c. in
1950 to 5 p.c. in 1952, and advanced to
p.c. for the two following years, was
lifted to 9 p.c., leaving 56 p.c. of the year’s
net earnings to plough back into the busi-
ness. This is in accordance with the
board’s policy of offsetting costs-inflation
by modernisation of and additions to
plant. The full benefits of this policy have
■not yet been felt in the p. and 1. account,
which should further benefit as the re-
organised Fabric and Dyecraft cos. get
more firmly on their feet.
The parent co., whose hosiery and lin-
gerie enjoy a high reputation in the trade,
has always been a very satisfactory profit-
earner. For the 26 years to 1951 the ords.
never failed to receive a div., the average
for the period being 11 p.c. Omitting
dividends from subsidiary and other cos.
(£30,080, up, £5824), the parent netted
£92,080 (up £2554) from its own trading
last term. It was an encouraging per-
formance considering the growing com-
petition from imports, and cut in prices
for imported nylon and rayon yarns.
The trouble in 1952, when group
operations resulted in a loss of £65,062,
occurred in the infant fabrics and the
textile-printing and -dyeing sections, fol-
lowing the import flood and fall in wool
prices. Last term the Fabrics co. netted
£11,316 (down £9879), the contraction
being due to reduction of stocks at cut
prices. After paying the pref. div., the
deficit in the p. and 1. account was
£190,180. Trading results have improved
since the close of accounts. Dyecraft,
Ltd., recorded a loss of £14,506, about
£3OOO less than the previous year’s loss.
The trouble was in the printing division.
There have been changes in management,
and improved sales are reported since the
close of accounts.
The N.Z. offshoot, whose latest
accounts are not yet available, is one of
the leading hosiery- and lingerie-producers
in the Dominion. It appears to have con-
tributed substantially to the improvement
in last term’s group profit.
Movements in balance-sheet figures are
encouraging:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. - .. £303,050 £303,050 £303,050
Ord 701,978 701,978 701;978
Reserves . . . . 903,406 1,000,872 1,104,544
Outside interests.. 213,677 223,079 231,171
Loan 525,000 500,000 475,000
Overdraft . . . . 330,854 734,555 774,205
Creditors . . . . 272,731 290,019 290,711
Taxation . . . . 181,480 181,418 121,097
Final divs. . . 47,212 50,084 61,085
£3,479,388 £3,985,055 £4,062,841
Freeholds .. .. 695,774 718,371 733,415
Plant .. . . 1,101,382 1,256,320 1,353,625
Shares .. .. 65,980 65,980 70,730
Stocks . . . . 1,386,468 1,655,309 1,538,160
Debtors .. .. 213,474 244,361 340,041
Cash, etc 5,109 33,513 7,486
Intangibles, etc. . . 11,201 11,201 19,384
£3,479,388 £3,985,055 £4,062,841
The year’s net addition of £102,349 to
fixed assets reflects the board’s moderni-
sation programme. The reduction of
£117,149 in stocks and growth of £95,680
in book-debts suggest healthier trading.-
At the same time total outside liabilities
(including final div.) were reduced by
£33,914.
The recent strengthening of import-
restrictions should benefit ,sales of the
group, but increases, and pending in-
creases, in marginal wages-rates threaten
to gobble much of the gain. Competition
in-the trade remains keen.
Motors, Ltd. (Adelaide)
TRIGGER profit, a lift in the div. and
announcement of a new share-issue at
par sent the f.-p. £1 shares of this
Adelaide jnotor-distributor up with a
rush from 51s. a couple of months ago to
81s. 6d. last week. Profit for the year to
April 30 last was £9613 stronger at
£85,187, and the div. was jacked up from
30 p.c. to 321 P-c. Paid capital is £lOO,OOO
in £1 shares, wffich are to be split into
ss. units on July 29. To finance further
expansion of the business those on the
register at that date are to be offered
160,000 new ss. shares at par, two for
five. A further 40,000 new shares are to
be offered to employees at par, and
another 20,000 are to be issued at a
premium of 2s. 6d. each to business
associates.
When all the new, shares are out and
the money in, paid capital will be
£155,000, and reserves will benefit by
£2500 of share-premiums, raising them
to £322,039. A 321 p.c. div. will then
call for £50,375, which is £34,813 less
profit than was earned last term, or
£40,617 less than average net earnings
for the last six years.
At 81s. 6d. for the £1 shares the ss.
units would be worth 20s. 4yd. After
exercising the rights, and allowing for
brokerage, the net cost would be a shade
over 165., and the return on a 32£ p.c.
distribution 10 p.c. Theoretical value of
the rights is approximately 11s. Including
the new capital, net tangible cover is
15s. 9d.
The co., which kicked off in 1911 and
joined the ’Change list in 1925, had a lean
time during the slump and war years.
Divs. averaged only 2 p.c. for the 17
years to 1946. But the post-war boom
and the dollar problem, which put the
emphasis on British vehicles, changed the
picture. For the eight years to the close
of last accounts divs. averaged 29.1 p.c.,
and reserves climbed from £8346 to
£319,539.
The co. holds the South Australian
franchises, including Broken Hill, for
Morris, M.G., Rolls-Royce, Bentley and
Hudson cars, Morris commercial
vehicles and Electrice refrigerators, etc.
A subsidiary, Kingsway, Ltd., handles
Wolseley and Riley cars and Nuffield
tractors, etc. The Morris (Nuffield)
franchise is the moneyspinner.
Total sales and new-vehicle deliveries
over the last four years have been as
follows:
New Vehicle
Sales. Deliveries.
1951- .. .. ..£2,834,824 2708
1952- 1,866,379 1687*
1953- 1,425,192 1364
1954- 2,056,076 2068
Last term the order-book ran well ahead
of deliveries, and a “considerable”
number of customers’ deposits had to be
returned. Servicing and sales of parts
and secondhand-vehicles made a handy
contribution to turnover, too.
A pleasing feature of profits was the
growth in the 1954 figure, despite the
drop in turnover for that year: —
To Re- Re-
April, Profit, r Dividends—— > serves, serves.
£ £,£>£>
1951.. 98,216 37* p.c. = 37,5001
To staff fund, £7500 .. f 51,966 151,835
Other provisions, £1250 . . J
Underprovision taxation, £9156 .. 142,679
1952. .127,475 30 p.c. = 30,000'
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 87.225 229,904
Other provisions, £250
1953.. 67,084 30 R.C. = 30,000’
To staff fund, £2500 .. 34,334 264,238
Other provisions, £250 .._
Profit sale assets, £3981 .. .. 268,219
1954.. 75,574 30 p.c. = 30,000 1
To staff fund, £5400 ..j 40 ’ 174 308,393
Tax underprovided, £28,519 .. .. 279,874
1955 T0 rtafTfund!* P i13f022 32 " 500 } 39 ’ 6G5 319 ’ 539
Last term additional tax-assessments
totalling £28,519 relating to stock-valua-
tion in previous years were charged to
reserves. The £Bs, 187 of profit was 85.2
p.c. on capital as it stood at the close of
accounts, compared with 7.5, 6,. 67, 127.5
and 98.2 p.c. back to 1951. So the lift
in the div. was a comfortable matter.
Expansion is the keynote of balance-
sheet figures:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Reserves .'. . .* 264,238 308,393 319,539
Creditors and deposits 75,274 58,313 110,710
Tax provision . . .. 42,355 32,644 35,560
Other provisions .. 3,852 5,856 6,548
Staff funds, etc. .. 3,191 7,500
Final divs 17,500 17,500 17,500
£506,410 £522,706 £597,357
Freeholds and
machinery, etc. .. 108,816 158,952 216,271
Stocks 97,526 143,826 219,491
Debtors 61,697 94,434 118,104
Cash and shares .. 238,371 125,494 43,491
£506,410£522,706 £597,357
The book-value of freeholds increased
by £57,319, stocks by £75,665 and book-
debts by £23,670, while only £52,397 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc.
During the year a used-car department
was established, a new building was
erected at Devon Park (near Adelaide) to
house the production section, and the
premises and business of Boston Motors
Pty., at Port Lincoln, together with an
adjoining property, was bought for
£15,150. Here the intention is to put up
a new building to house a branch which
will operate the Nuffield agencies in that
area. Also a new subsidiary, Motorway
Service and Parts, Ltd., has been set up
in Adelaide since the close of accounts.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
TTARPER’S is a sound stock, offering a
moderate immediate return, with
strong asset-backing and good long-term
prospects. At 375. 4d. (335. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 ords. return 5.3 on a 10 p.c.
distribution. Each lift of 1 p.c. in the
handout would increase the return by
approximately \ p.c. The 7 p.c. prefs. at
235. 6d. yield 6 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £7 4s. Bd. prefs. and 665. lOd. ords.,
and assets are known to be worth more
than their book-value.
Although the wholesale drygoods field
is one of the most difficult sectors of
trade and industry in which to win satis-
factory profits—competition is keen and
margins narrow —the £430,000 of share-
capital, of which £150,000 carries a fixed
cumulative 7 p.c., had the support and
assistance of £735,738 of reserves at
March 31 last. So the two combined need
turn in only 3,3 p.c. to cover the pref.
div. and 10 p.c. to the ords., whereas last
term’s profit was a shade over 5 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds.
Since the war a lot of money has been
spent (out of savings) on modernisation
and extension of the factories at Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth,
which turn out a wide range of well-estab-
lished proprietary lines. Although turn-
over has kept in step with an expanding
market, spurred by immigration and in-
flation, it is only during the last couple
of years that net earnings have got much
benefit from the increased capital outlay
—modern packing-plants and other equip-
ment have substantially reduced unit
costs, as well as enhanced over-the-counter
appearance of the products.
Last term the quantity of rice available
to the co. was greatly reduced, and so
were earnings therefrom. But turnover
in other lines increased considerably, and
further improvement in operational
efficiency resulted in a better rate of gross
profit. -So, despite the uptrend in wage-
rates, etc., the board was able to figure
net earnings only £4174 short of the pre-
vious year’s. That was after allowing
£32,637 (up £541) for depreciation, £3228
for long-service leave and something for
taxation, etc.:
t Dividends
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1960.. 41,249 10,500 19,200 2400 9,149 575,725
Unexplained addition, £6813 .. .. 582,538
Profit, sale freehold, £100,932 .. 683,470
10 p.c.
1951.. 37,581 10,500 24,000 2400 681 684,151
Unexplained addition, £942 .. .. 685,093
Profit, sale assets, £5321 .. .. 690,414
8 p.c.
1952.. 32,138 10,500 19,200 2400 38 690,452
Profit, sale assets, £5555 .. .. 696,007
1953.. 36,407 10,500 19,200 2400 4,307 700,314
Profit, sale assets, £504 .. .. 700,818
To long-service leave provision, £9,000 691,818
• 10 p.c. 6 p.c.f
1954 63,104 10,500 26,400 1200 25,004 716,822
Profit sale assets, £1714 .. .. 718,536
1955.. 58,930 10,500 28,000 738,966
To long-service leave, £3228 .. .. 735,738
* Subject to goodwill, £80,350. t For six months.
The £58,930 of profit was enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 17.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 18.7 p.c. for the previous
term. A 2 p.c. bonus was again added
to the 8 p.c. div., making 10 p.c. for the
year, the average for the last decade being
9.2 p.c. t
The div. has been kept at 8 p.c. ever
since 1918, and sweetened with bonus
additions during the better years. How-
ever, subject to unexpected and severe
fluctuations in trading conditions, a higher
rate of profit than for the years prior to
1954 now appears to be assured. Hence
the market’s anticipation that the board


DAVIES & CQLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—A DVT,
I.A.C.
ANNOUNCES
it wall shortly file and issue a Prospectus
for an issue at par of
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
Interest Currency
41% ... 12 months
4% ... 9 months
Interest Currency
3f% ... 6 months
31% ... 3 months
LONG TERM
Interest Currency
. . . TO & 15 years
6% ... 4to 9 years
sdf
per annum, interest payable quarterly, 1
free of exchange
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to
all Members of Stock Exchanges
and all Branches of
Industrial Acceptance Corporation ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES VICTORIA QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA WESTERN AUSTRALIA TASMANIA
36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camper down,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
&iff iff
m
mx
Illinois is a lovely strip of the earth’s surface;
fruitful in its soil, and vivid.
In this great American State I have just seen
marshalled for a Caterpillar tractor and eauipment
exposition probably more machines tor the
betterment of mankind than have ever before been
assembled at any place at one time.
It is inspiring to see them, these units of
self-help that will be placed in living hands so that
men in many countries may work out their destiny.
Sight of them has brought home to me one of
the truths of the world’s present need:
What the nationals of less privileged countries
want is not so much the generous donation of food
—although that is an immediate necessity in some
cases—but the giving of respect, and the granting of
opportunity to raise themselves up by their own
effort with the help of tools supplied to them . . .
Tools such as these.
Put these earth-using and earth-moving
machines to the work of Nature and what a
sequence you set in train: Nature herself, is Vitality
—Energy. And Life is Energy in flower.
It is not easy to express oneself in a paragraph;
still more difficult to do so in a sentence, and
hardest of all in a word.
But if I were reduced to two words to describe
the part that the makers of this kind of machinery
are playing in the world today I’d say it was
“Kinetic energy.”
That is, mass energy in movement —a principle
well known to engineers. It can be likened to
Influence among men; and in human relations this
force has a spiritual as well as a material quality.
So I have seen more than inanimate machines
arrayed before me in this great 6xposition.
More —and much more—than the material is
working in God’s world when the labours of men
in a tractor plant can richen the fields of life-giving
grain in a country thousands of miles from Illinois.
\
7
will strengthen the rate of distri-
bution when it considers the time
ripe.
Toward the close of accounts
the co. bought the fixed assets of
Malties Pty. at an unstated
figure, thus adding two new lines
of breakfast-food to the range
of products. Freeholds increased
by £11,705, plant, etc., by £3524
and £350 was added to good-
will: —
Paid capital— 1954. 1965.
Pref £160,000 £150,000
Ord 280,000 280,000
Reserves .. .. 716,822 786,738
Tax reserve .. 60,259 48,621
Overdraft .. .. 6,360 93,601
Creditors, etc. .. 163,610 140,769
Final dividend , .. 16,800 16,800
£1,372,851 £1,466,429
Freeholds .. 390,228 401,933
Plant, etc. .. 317,657 321,181
Stocks .. .. 824,668 392,614
Debtors .. .. 173,744 184,355
Govt. securities,
cash, etc. .. 86,654 84,996
Goodwill, etc. .. 80,000 80,350
£1,372,851 £1,466,429
To meet the outlay on fixed
assets, carry an extra £68,046 of
stocks, £10,611 more book-debts
and reduce the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., by
£12,541, the co. went to its
bankers for a further £88,241.
The financial position is com-
fortable, and always has been.
Television Corp., Ltd.
This is the first of the two cos.
granted licences to operate com-
mercial TV-stations at Sydney
to invite the public to come in.
It has a nominal capital of
£2,000,000 in 10s. shares, of
which 800,000 are offered and
underwritten (at 4£d. each) by
lan Potter and Co. (Melb.). The
underwriter has taken firm
500,000 of the shares, leaving
300,000 for subscription by the
public, payable ss. application
and 2s. 6d. December, 1955, and
2s. 6d. March, 1956.
A further 1,100,000 shares are
to be taken (also for cash)
by Consolidated Press, Ltd.
(570,000); Associated News-
papers, Ltd., England, owners of
the London “Daily Mail”
(233,000); Philips Electrical
Industries Pty. (116,000); broad-
casting-stations 2SM (50,000)
and 2KY (20,000); Paramount
Film Services Pty. (31,000);
Tivoli Circuit Australia Pty.
(20,000); Church of England
Property Trust, Sydney (60,000).
The co. will thus start off with
an issued capital of £950,000.
Estimated expenditure over the
first three years is put at
£1,050,000, of which it is in-
tended to raise £lOO,OOO on over-
draft. The money is to go into
land and buildings £150,000,
plant £400,000, preliminary and
formation exes. £30,000, de-
velopment and establishment
costs £lOO,OOO, leaving £330,000
for working capital and con-
tingencies.
It is hoped to begin trans-
mission about July, 1956. The
licence is for a period of five
years, renewable thereafter at
yearly intervals. The freehold,
about three acres in area, is in
Artarmon - road, Willoughby,
approximately four miles from
the Sydney G.P.O. The entire
station, including studio and
transmission-tower, is to be
housed in buildings erected on
the spot, thus eliminating the
need for link-equipment, which
would cost some £27,000.
A large part of the electronic
and other technical equipment
is to be supplied by Philips Elec-
trical Industries Pty., a local off-
shoot of 'the big Dutch firm,
N. V. Philips’ Gloeilampen-
fabreiken, which, with its British,
U.S., Canadian and other associ-
ates and subsidiaries, is one of
the world’s largest manufac-
turers of electrical and allied
equipment, including radio and
television apparatus.
On the operational and
management side J. B. Briton
has been appointed chief-
engineer, C. H. Shiel acting
general-manager and J. R. Kitto
secretary. The selection and
training of technical staff is in
hand, and some prospective
executives have been sent to
America for practical training
in programme work. Later on
leaders in the religious, educa-
tional and artistic spheres are
to be invited to join the co.’s
advisory panel.
No estimate of anticipated
profits is given. It is claimed
that the 429 TV-stations in the
U.S. are operating profitably;
and there the Inland Revenue
code permits the complete cost
of station .equipment to be
written off in four years. Still,
it is doubtful to what extent
American experience can be
accepted as a reliable guide to
what might be expected here,
especially during the early
stages.
It has been estimated that the
sale of TV receiving-sets for
the first four years from the
commencement of services in
Australia would be 9500, 25,500,
78,000 and 115,000, a total of
335,000 in the fourth year. The
cost of a TV-receiver, with a
17in. screen, is expected to be
about £l5O, including sales tax.
So it might be a while before
commercial TV-stations get fully
into their stride so far as earn-
ings, and therefore dividends,
are concerned.
On the board are D. F. H.
Packer (Consolidated Press);
C. V. Hake (Paramount Film
Service); R. A. King (2KY);
Rev. Father M. R. Prendergast
(2SM); D. F. S. McClean (Asso-
ciated Newspapers, Eng.) ; D. N.
Martin (Tivoli Circuit); F. N.
Leddy (Philips Electrical Indus-
tries) ; Major-General the Rev.
C. A. Osborne (C. of E. Property
Trust); and G. F, Sanger,
England.
Olympic Consolidated Indus.
To keep in step with the still-
growing market for its tyres,
insulated cables and other pro-
ducts, this robust and very
profitable group has embarked
upon a two-year programme of
further expansion.
To help finance the work—
mainly installation of new plant
and equipment at the West
Footscray (Vic.) and Geebung
(Q.) factories, and provision of
more warehouse-space in the
capital cities —1,500,000 new £1
6 p.c. cum. prefs. are to be
offered at par. Existing share-
holders (pref. and ord.) have
priority of application for
750,000 of them, and 50,000 are
reserved for the staff. Of the
other 700,000, the underwriters,
J. B. Were & Son, have taken
firm 200,000, leaving 500,000
for subscription by the general
public.
The money is wanted either in
full on application, or ss. appli-
cation and three further pay-
ments of ss. each on January
31, 1956, July 31, 1956, and
January 31, 1957. The issue will
lift paid capital to £8,086,996 in
1,653,467 6 p.c. cum prefs. (the
old 5 p.c. prefs. have been con-
verted into 6 per cents.) and
25,734,116 ords. of ss. each.
Net earnings of the group for
the year to June 30, 1954, were
£1,445,201, or 14.5 times greater
than the pref. div. on the in-
creased capital. And net tangible
cover is £4 2s. lOd. per pref.
share. The new shares thus offer
good protection for both in-
come and capital, and the 6 p.c.
return is. better than that now
obtainable from other first-class
pref. shares on the market.
The profit for the year to June
30, 1954, was enough to pay the
prefs. (including the new issue)
their 6 p.c., and show 20.9 p.c.
on ord. capital; and the
new pref. money is likely
to earn considerably more than
its keep.
Formation of the Olympic
Tyre and Rubber Co. in 1933
(paid capital £100,000) by Frank
Beaurepaire (later Sir Frank)
marked the genesis of a group
of manufacturing cos. which
have been one of the outstand-
ing successes of Australian in-
dustry. Olympic Consolidated
Industries is the holding co.,
formed in 1953, which brought
under one control the activities
of Olympic Tyre and Rubber,
Olympic Cables, Olympic Gen-
eral Products, and two smaller
tyre and garage-service cos.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The activities of the Big Four were in
all minds during the week—the possi-
bility of world peace one of the chief
topics of conversation. Frivolous
chatterers noted that it was the Americans
who served roast-beef at their dinner
(surely it should have been chicken
Maryland?), that the wives of the English,
American and French leaders were in the
news, but there didn’t seem to be any sign
of the Russians’ womenfolk, and that the
friendly relations established by social
activities appear to have been the chief
outcome of the conference (a fact that
will be stored by many women for the
next time husbands grumble at climbing
into white-tie-and-tails).
On a more homely plane conversation
touched on the increased price of butter,
how peas and beans at staggering prices
have introduced novelties to Sydney
tables (red-cabbage at least interests the
children), how parsley seems to have
“gone under the counter,” how Sydney’s
grand-pianos came under fire from visit-
ing musician Julius Katchen, whether
Princess Margaret will announce her
engagement to Captain Townsend on her
birthday, August 21, and the present
remarkable vitality of the legitimate
theatre in Sydney.
v y v
The Elizabethan Theatre is to open
tonight (Wednesday) with “The Sleeping
Prince,” by Terence Rattigan, and
starring Sir Ralph Richardson, Dame
Sybil Thorndike, Meriel Forbes and Sir
Lewis Casson. The cast includes 15-year-
old Jane Casson, of Toorak, Melbourne.
She is a granddaughter of Dame Sybil
and Sir Lewis, and is to appear with them
in her first professional engagement.
There is great interest in this first per-
formance at the Elizabethan Theatre
(formerly the Majestic, Newtown),
especially with so brilliant a cast and
play. Entrepreneur Garnet H. Carroll
leased the theatre from the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, which will start its own
activities in October with Judith
Anderson in “Medea.”
# # #
Next week there’ll be three openin'g
nights of the International Grand Opera
season —“Aida” on Wednesday, “La
Boheme” on Thursday and “La Traviata”
on Saturday. Mr. J. Nevin Tait, director-
general of the company, who came ahead
from Adelaide with his daughter, Miss
Mary Tait, said that Australian audiences
are very appreciative of grand opera and
warm and discriminating in their
approval.
☆ ☆ ☆
From the many beautiful pieces show-
ing at the Antiques Exhibition at David
Jones’ Market-street store, one can begin
to realise how great a treasure of such
things Australia must possess. The
exhibition, organised by the Dr. Barn-
ardo’s Homes women’s auxiliary, contains
nearly 700 pieces, some dating back to
1535, and few (except in the Australian
section) later than 1825. About 620
people bought tickets for the champagne-
preview (the champagne was donated by
a well-wisher), but in the spacious gallery
lit by chandeliers there was room for all.
Welcoming the guests with Mrs. Rupert
Scammell (president of the women’s
auxiliary) were Lady McLaren, Mrs.
Murray Robson and Mrs. Raymond
Green. On the following day the exhibi-
tion was opened to the public by Dame
Pattie Menzies; on the day it closes
(August 2), Dame Sybil Thorndike will
present the George 111 silver teapot to
the owner of the lucky catalogue-number.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the week’s showery days was
brightened by the charming musicale
arranged by Mrs. Hope Gibson in aid
of the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund and
held in the vestibule of the Town Hall.
Guests numbering about 250 were greeted
by the Lady Mayoress (Mrs. P. D. Hills),
who wore a white velour hat with her
black suit and who later entertained all
those present at afternoon-tea. Guest-of-
honor was Mrs. J. J. Cahill, wife of the
Premier, whose grey hat and silver-fox
cape were worn with a black dress.
Soprano Gladys Mawson, flautist Dierdre
Hall, pianist Lindley Evans and baritone
Alan Light were the artists.
An after noon-tea for 1000 of its
workers was given by Sydney Legacy at
the Trocadero during the week. Retiring
president D. J. Cartledge (he leaves
shortly for a tour abroad with Mrs.
Cartledge and their two children) intro-
duced the president for 1955, Brigadier
F. B.'McAlister, who then took the chair.
Guest-of-honor Rear-Admiral H. J.
Buchanan, who was present with Mrs.
Buchanan, made a bright and witty
speech, and Miss Saide Parker, director
of appeals, who said that the 1955 target
of £50,000 was not too much to hope for,
once again demonstrated her power as
an orator when speaking on behalf of
the work and needs of Legacy. Music
during the afternoon was supplied by
James Harris and Valda Bagnall, and
there was a happy and friendly atmos-
phere among the many present.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 2UW Blind Appeal, which last
year raised £14,000 for the Royal Blind
Society, now has an eager Younger Set
working on its behalf, and their first func-
tion is to be a Masked Ball at Prince’s on
August 12. One may there expect
originality, glamor and humor (there is a
prize for each as displayed in the masks),
so it should be a bright night. Among
those working for its success are Maurice
Cramsey (president), Moira Pusterla and
Valerie Maguire.
Mardi Small, whose engagement has
just been announced, is the daughter of
Mrs. T. Small, of Summer Hill, and the
late Captain E. J. Small, who, as a test-
pilot with Kingsford-Smith, was a pioneer
of aviation in Australia. Mardi’s fiance
is Edward Kerr, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
C. Kerr, of Rose Bay. The marriage is
to take place in about 12 months’ time.
Photo by Dayne.
“A Night of Law and Disorder” is the
amusing name given to the dance arranged
by the Junior Committee of the Black
and White Ball at Pruniers on Thursday,
August 11. Prizes are to be given for
best dress as a “Lawmaker” or a “Law-*
breaker,” so there should be plenty of
fun. Members of the committee, who are
rehearsing for the production of “Devil
Wear Black” at the Independent on Sep-
tember 27, include Pamela Macarthur
Onslow, Romayne Hordern, Pam Miller,
Dinah Litchfield, Sonia Storch, Douglas
Agnew, Graham McPherson, Terry Clark,
Norman Coburn, and Peter MacDonald.
The first rehearsal was held at the home
of Mrs. Hans Tronser, Bellevue Hill.
Anyone who has ever appeared in a
play, even if it was only as an elf or a
waif at the age of five, is being asked to
wear the same (or similar) costume to the
Elizabethan Ball at the Trocadero on
September 14. With the theatre-sets with
which the Younger Set intends to decor-
ate the hall, and the presence of many
famous actors, dancers and singers, tne
dance should have an excitingly theatrical
atmosphere. Another feature is to be the
early start, 8 p.m., when sherry will be
served to guests as they arrive, thus main-
taining that intimate, friendly mood which
was so noticeable at the ball last year.
MELBOURNE
R.A.A.F. squadron badges, red, white
and blue balloons, and R.A.A.F. flags
were used to decorate the Royale Ballroom
for the annual cabaret ball of the Air
Force Association. The Governor and
Lady Brooks were present, and were
received by president of the association
Air-Marshal Sir George Jones and Lady
Jones, who were assisted by senior vice-
president Wing-Commander Peter Isaac-
son and Mrs. Isaacson. Lady Brooks
wore a gown of pastel-pink tulle with
the bouffant skirt appliqued with white
guipure lace. A fichu-neckline highlighted
the fitted bodice. Oyster-satin brocade,
patterned in pink roses, was the choice of
Lady Jones. To a very full skirt was
allied a fitted bodice. Official guests in-
cluded Chief of Air Staff, Air-Marshal
Sir John McCauley, Lady McCauley and
their daughter Ann, Air-Vice-Marshal and
Mrs. F. Scherger, Air-Marshal Sir
Richard and Lady Williams, Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. J. E. Hewitt, Air-Vice-
Marshal E. C. Wackett and Mrs. Wackett.
Here is attractive, elegant Marsha
Hunt, American stage- and screen-star,
to play lead opposite English actor
Peter Gray in the comedy “The Little
Hut,” which will open at the Princess
next Saturday, July 30. Films in which
she appeared include “Pride and Preju-
dice,” with Laurence Olivier, “Valley of
Decision,” with Gregory Peck, and “The
Happy Time,” with Charles Boyer.
Marsha lives in an old home in San
Fernando Valley with her husband and
children; she is keenly interested in
painting and interior-decorating.
Minister for Immigration Harold Holt
and his wife charmed members of the
Melbourne Gfeek community with a
glowing account of a holiday spent in
Greece. Setting for the talk was the
Lower Town Hall, when the Greek
branch of the Victorian Division of Red
Cross held a two-day fair to assist funds.
Mrs. Holt, described by the Greek Consul-
General, Mr. Pappadakas, as one of the
most elegant women in Australia, lived
up to it by wearing a beautifully-cut grey-
and-white-flecked tweed frock and full-
length matching coat. Beaver-fur fash-
ioned the collar and was continued down
the front edges of the coat to the hem.
Her small beret was of grey velour.
President of the Greek branch of Red
Cross, Mrs. Vrachnas, introduced the
speakers, and also there were Mr. Basil
Logus (president of the Greek com-
munity) and Mrs.®Logus, Mrs. Sigalis, Col.
Allan Spowers (chairman of the Vic.
Division of Red Cross) and Mrs. Spowers,
and general-secretary Leon Stubbings.
* * *
Musical satirist Anna Russell was at
her best for the concert she generously
gave in the Town Hall for the Edinburgh
Club, which works for Prince Henry’s
Hospital. Beautifully gowned in white
silk-jersey cut on Grecian lines, she kept
the large audience in gales of laughter.
In her act “How to Play the Bagpipes”
she was given the right atmosphere by the
Royal Caledonian Pipe Band.
Noted at the performance were the
president of the Edinburgh Club, the
Hon. Simon Warrender, and his wife’s
mother Mrs. Gladys Myer, Sir Eugene
Goossens, Sir Lewis Casson, Dame Sybil
Thorndike, Mr. and Mrs. Angus Jones,
Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Dooling, Mrs. Roy
Shepherd, Matron Morgan of Prince
Henry’s and Matron Alice Adcock of the
Margaret Coles Maternity Hospital.
After the hon. treasurer of the hospital,
Mr. W. K. Burnside, had thanked Anna
for her generous gesture, nurses from
Prince Henry’s presented flowers, and
Mrs. Burnside gave her a large toy-koala
with a tiny one on its back.
ft ft ☆
Two members of the Ballet Rambert,
with which Walter Gore and Paula
Hinton first came to Australia, were
present in the Union Theatre for the
premiere of the recently-established Aus-
tralian Ballet Company. They were Sally
Gilmour (now married to Dr. Allan
Wynn) and Margaret Scott (her husband
is Dr. R. Denton). Walter Gore and his
wife Paula Hinton are the leaders of the
new company, which presented several
gay and enchanting ballots, in which
were seen a number of promising young
dancers.
The Lady Mayoress (Mrs. F. Selleck)
was in the audience with her daughter,
Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson. Also present were
the Garnet Carrolls, Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins and his daughter Gillian,
Mrs. John Casson, Mrs. Harry Standish,
Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs. Frank
Nicholls, Joanne Priest (Adelaide) and
Laurel Martyn.
# V #
President of the Yorick Club Russell
Gourlay and his wife received more than
200 members and friends at the club’s
annual party. Bowls of spring flowers
mixed with pink carnations, jonquils,
stocks and hydrangea were arranged in
the entrance-hall, where a large fire
blazed.
Mrs. Gourlay, who earlier had enter-
tained at a dinner-party in her home,
chose a gown of smoke-blue chiffon ; the
strapless bodice was topped with a long-
sleeved bolero. Mrs. Ronald Nott’s short
evening-frock was of delphinium-blue
lace and organza, and featured the harem-
hemline. Her sister, Betty Smith, wore
dove-grey tulle embroidered in mother-
of-pearl cabochons.
Mrs. Keith Morrison’s gown of French
organza was in silver-grey tonings striped
in deeper grey ; Mrs. David Elder wore
grey laces over rose-pink taffeta, Mrs.
Lindsay Plant a floral skirt with a black
velvet off-shoulder bodice, Mrs. George
Todner chose a black gown, Mrs. John
Heriot one of black-and-white-striped
taffeta with a halter-neckline.
V V &
There will be a gala film preview of
Danny Kaye’s “Assignment Children,”
followed by Bqb Hope’s “The Seven Little
Foys,” at the King’s Theatre on August
9. The gala night, at which the Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady Brooks will
be present, will aid the United Nations’
Appeal for Children. Mrs. Gerald
Warner, wife of the U.S. Consul-General,
is president of the committee arranging
the night, and Madame Paul-Emile Cattin,
wife of the Swiss Consul, is vice-president.
Members of the committee are wives of
members of the Consular corps. Mrs.
James Pettengell (BJ 4732) is ticket-
secretary and is assisted by Miss Marjorie
Tatnall (WF 4304).
& # #
Having successfully staged a pageant
for the University Centenary, Appeal,
Mrs. James Buchanan is now organis-
ing her next effort for the same
appeal. She will preside over a
group including Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh,
Mrs. Alan Powell, Mrs. Gladys Myer,
Mrs. Robert Lindsay and Mrs. David
Knox. This committee is arranging a
fashion-parade at Greenknowe, the home
of Sir Robert and Lady Knox. Fashions
will come from the House of Le Louvre,
and Lillian Wightman (who is Le Louvre)
is having special fashions flown out from
Paris. Several Western District hostesses
are expected to join the committee, and
the parade will be timed to coincide with
the Royal Show.
ft ft ft
Short theatre-frocks were chosen by
most women in the audience at Her
Majesty’s for the change of programme
of the Borovansky Ballet. There were
two exceptions: Lady Collins, who was
with Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins, wore
a long formal gown of aqua-blue faille
under a full-length black-velvet coat,
and Mrs. Eccles McKay, who was with
her daughter June, chose garnet-red satin
for her formal gown. Mrs. Eric Rogers,
wearing a frock of emerald-green silk with
a sequin-trimmed matching curvette, had
daughter Paulette with her. With Mr.
and Mrs. Gordon Steege was Diana, with
her young cousins Angela and Robin Tait.
Mrs. Frank Tait, who was with her hus-
band and Miss Cecil Tait, chose a black-
faille ballerina with the tulle yoke clus-
tered with sequins. A striking short frock
of brilliant-red jersey was worn by Mrs.
Terry Vaughan. The scoop-neckline was
heavily trimmed with jet and over it she
wore a short, full black-faille coat with
the cape-collar also jet-embroidered.


CUARD
Catit
PROTECTA
HtnL-Sitt HighitJiEiig-
TILL
■%>
Satiable for every type of basineaa it record*
all Sales. Credits. Payout* etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O'SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Ely. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Between
Ourselves
-
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JACK ALDRIDGE formerly of New-
castle New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that BESSIE IRIS ALDRIDGE has filed
a Petition No. 3312 of 1954 for Divorce
on ths grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney on or before the 30th day of Sep-
tember 1955 A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be obtained free of charge
from DEGOTARDI & PAYK, Solicitors,
263 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
YOU WILL
STof> SMOKING
OX YOUR MONEY WILL
BE REFUNDED
You can relieve your system of the desire
for tobacco, absolutely and completely,
or you can reduce the amount of tobacco
you consume to any extent desired.
You can do so quickly in the safe,
mild, pleasant and reliable way under a
money-back guarantee at a cost of less
than one week’s tobacco with
VERMARK
ANTI-SMOKING TABLETS
PRICE 10/- for bottle of 50 tablets.
20/- for bottle of 100 tablets.
Post Free.
The 50-tablet bottle will be sufficient to
cure moderate smokers, but heavy smokers
will require the bottle of 100 tablets.
Vermark Laboratories,
12A Springfield
N.S.W., Box
Ave., Kings Cross,
744, G.P.0., Sydney.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meais
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
.
'
ii mm
m
li
1
Ml
ftfl
M.
t*
H
MS
II
Si
<, —i J*i
■VvifeirHii m
ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Single Rooms —
From 15/- per day
Double Rooms—
From 27/- per day
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephone No. 80522
(16 lines).
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Mattiwilda Dobbs
A coloratura-soprano who
uses the flexibility of a beautiful
voice for purely human effects
is rare indeed —so many try to
emulate the White Leghorn.
The young American negress
has the further advantage of a
charming appearance as
gracious a platform-manner as
present commentator has seen at
Sydney Town Hall —and a voice
which reflects the moods and
emotions of her songs. Her
enunciation is in itself music,
and she has perfect control over
a voice the gamut of which is
spacious and the color-range
wide.
The songs she presented at her
first two concerts included some
newly heard and refreshing. Her
affinity with the Spanish mode
was. reflected in the animation
she brought to four “Amatory
Madrigals” by the contemporary
composer Joaquin Rodrigo.
Among a group of fine Spanish
folk-songs was Nin’s “Song of
Andalusia,” best-known in its
setting for the violin.
Moving to Brazil, Miss Dobbs
brought off as perfect a piece of
voice-control as anyone could
wish for. This was in the aria
from Villa-Lobos’s “Bachianas
Brasileiras No. 5,” in the final
section of which she sang
through clenched teeth, leaping
an octave to land flush on an
extremely high note almost in a
whisper—a most beautiful effect.
The “Care Selve,” from
Handel’s “Atlanta,” is as severe
a test of breath-control, legato
and mezza voce singing as any
in the repertoire, and in it the
singer displayed consummate
artistry. “Oh, Had I Jubal’s
Lyre,” from the same composer’s
“Joshua,” was intricate and
accurate singing of oratorio at
headlong pace.
In a Hugo Wolf lieder
bracket the “Elves’ Song” was
all chuckling mischievousness,
and the witchery of “The Neo-
phite” was captured completely.
Richard Strauss’s “Standchen”
became a cascade of impassioned
rhapsody, his “Morgen” the
essence of delicacy.
Pyrotechnics were supplied by
Egt’s “Variationonen Weiner
Strophenlied,” a show-piece
written in 1937 as an alternative
aria for Rosina’s lesson-scene in
“The Barber of Seville” —one of
the most exacting testing-pieces
for a coloratura after the “Bell
Song” from “Lakme.”
Raymond Lambert’s accom-
paniments were up to the high
standard set by the singer.
& ❖ ❖
“The Merchant of Venice”
After a .iong Sydney run, the
Old Vic Company is now in
Brisbane presenting as an
opener its lighthearted version
of “The Merchant of Venice.”
Ever since Sir Henry Irving it
has been usual to present Shy-
lock as a man of powerful intel-
lect, more sinned against than
sinning ; producer Michael Ben-
thall apparently decided against
making the play the uncomfort-
able sermon on anti-Semitism it
so often is.
Robert Helpmann’s fine, Shy-
lock is really a vindictive money-
lender, and his pound-of-flesh
bond stands out as the product
of an eccentric and cruel mind.
Even in the trial-scene Help-
mann avoided playing for too
much sympathy, thus leaving the
audience enough patience to
watch Portia and the rest of the
cast act out the little plot at the
end without any feeling of anti-
climax. Moonlit Belmont and
the young lovers under the stars
gave the play a perfectly natural
ending, because one was not
given the chance to seethe with
indignation over the treatment
meted out to Shylock.
Katharine Hepburn’s kittenish
tomboy Portia made up in high
spirits what it lacked in poetry.
Verse-speaking is not her strong
point, and the falsetto tones of
ecstasy she adopts to convey her
feeling towards #Bassanio sound
hardly natural. Yet Portia has
little fine poetry to speak, most
of her well-known lines having
a priggish, moralistic tone that
smacks of the schoolbook. Like
Helpmann, Hepburn makes no
attempt to steal every scene in
which she appears.
All in all, many things are
memorable, from the cheerful
loony grin of Gobbo (George
Benson) to the attractive scenery
of Loudon Sain thill which floats
in and out of the sky with an
admirable smoothness.
D. J. M.
4 * *
“My Three Angels”
At Melbourne Comedy, this
French play by Albert Husson —
Americanised by Sam and Bella
Spewak —is set in the parlor of
a store managed by M. Ducotel
in a penal-settlement in French
Guiana.
M. Ducotel’s household is
beset with emotional problems —
the store is a financial failure,
his daughter Marie Louise is in
love with Paul, the son of his
employer, M. Henri Trouchard,
and M. Trouchard himself is on
his way to inspect M. Ducotel’s
accounts, which are in a state of
sad disorder.
The situation seems com-
pletely hopeless, but there is a
ray of sunshine. On the roof,
tiling the store, are three con-
victs —two murderers and the
other a forger. Here are the
perfect instruments for M-
Ducotel’s unconscious, which
would naturally wish to remove
from his path such a formidable
obstacle to his happiness as M.
Trouchard, provided that M.
Trouchard leaves a will be-
queathing his fortune to Paul,
contingent on him marrying
sweet little Marie Louise.
This is where the forger comes
in. Also Adolphe, a little
poisonous pet snake the con-
victs have picked-up in the
jungle. Being in for life and
having no hope, their frightful
sufferings have turned them into
profound psychologists, tender
humanitarians and brilliant wits
whose irony in a better cause an
Anatole France might envy.
They size things up on the
instant and, by the skilful direc-
tion of everybody’s psyche, fix
everything within a few short
hours —M. Trouchard is a
corpse, his will is all in order,
and the only obstacle to Marie
Louise’s happiness is Paul, who
is such a poor fish that
Adolphe’s services have to be
requisitioned once again.
That leaves Marie Louise
without a prospective husband,
but, by way of compensation, a
handsome young sub-lieutenant
appears, and the three convicts
return to their tiling well satis-
fied with their work.
If it sounds grim, it isn’t;
although it is, of course, all un-
mitigated tripe. The French,
however, know how to cook
their tripe —in fact, they are the
only people who do know how
to cook it. With his Gallic
garnishings, M. Hussoiv makes
you unaware of what you are
eating, and the corps- of excellent
Australian actors helps him
immensely in that regard.
Lola Brooks, as the innocent
little French girl, and Hal
Thompson, Leonard Bullen and
Eric Reiman, as the three
convicts, are conspicuously
good.
& * *
Accordion Orchestra
The Hohner Orchestra is now
doing for the accordion what
Larry Adler did years ago for
the harmonica —making it recog-
nised *as an instrument for
serious music as well as for light.
Most members of the audience
at His Majesty’s Theatre in
Brisbane —where the Hohner
Symphony Accordion Orchestra
began an Australian tour —and
subsequently at Sydney Tiv.,
probably thought of the instru-
ment as a pleasant provider of
music for cafes and campfires. It
was a shock to hear the 20 or so
players launch into Bach’s
Toccata and Fugue in D Minor,
one of their showpieces, and
rightly so.
Their performance sounded
authentic, certainly more so
than the orchestral transcrip-
tions sometimes heard in con-
cert-halls. In tone they resembled
a small organ of sweetness
rather than power, and they
played as one man under the
keen eye of conductor Rudolph
Wurthner.
They added power to their
playing in Moussorgsky’s
“Pictures at an Exhibition,”
another piece that has been
arranged for orchestra many
times. To the accordions were
added bells and tympani, both*
enhancing a tremendous climax
in “The Great Gate of Kiev.”
In some lighter pieces there
was not so much imitation of
other instruments, though at
times one might have imagined
that oboes, clarinets and even
saxophones lurked in the wings,
so amazing were some of the
sbunds produced.
Rudolph Glass played a
chromonica solo with agility,
and achieved distinction as the
only member of the orchestra to
smile broadly. The others don’t
always look happy, even when
they play well —no doubt it is
hard to feel gay with an
enormous accordion strapped to
one’s chest.
Conductor Wurthner’s own
solo part in a Liszt Hungarian
Rhapsody was exhilarating to
hear, and indeed the pleasure of
the whole orchestra’s work came
as much from their well-drilled
virtuosity as from their well-
balanced programme. Their
version of “Waltzing Matilda”
is alone worth hearing, and it
looks as though we shall have
to treat the “stomach Steinway”
with more respect in the future.
D. J. M.
if* *>
Orlando Gibbons
The first of two concerts of
Tudor and Jacobean music at
Sydney University’s International
Festival was devoted to Orlando
Gibbons and opened with a de-
monstration by Warwick
Mehaffey of the clarity of Gib-
bons’s music ; now and then such
delicacy as Mr. Mehaffey’s re-
minds us that the organ is a
musical instrument and not an
emotional pump.
Except in the “Lincoln’s Inn
Maske,” Nancy Salas did not
bring the difficult, heavily-orna-
mented harpsichord-pieces alive.
The Eastwood Singers gave
competent renderings of three
madrigals. The University’s Pro
Musica choir, conducted by Peter
Platt, attacked three anthems
with admirable force, and almost
gaiety, and this injection of vigor
into the concert was sustained
by the Pro Musica strings in two
four-part fantasies, where again
was to be found that wonderful
unending flow of the old music,
a secret that seemed to have died
with the makers.
At the second concert the
Sydney University Musical
Society madrigal-choir attacked
some part-songs by John Farmer,
Thomas Vautor and Thomas
Weelkes with such wonderful
force and precision under the
conductorship of David Barkla
as to put in the shade excellent
performances of a Taverner
Sanctus and Benedictus by the
Pro Musica Society, some
psalms, hymns, etc., by .Morley,
Tye, Caustun and Mundy by The
Christ Church St. Laurence
choir, and a set of madrigals and
a Gloria by the Lindfield A
Capella choir.
It was contended by some in
the audience that by singing
concerted ayres, the Musical
Society choir was taking an
unfair advantage of those who
undertook the more involved,
less-controllable madrigal style;
this may also go to prove the
superiority of the ayre over the
madrigal, a matter not generally
conceded except by those who
have to listen and not
perform . . .
The Pro Musica singers rallied
in their closing three pieces by
Richard Dering, on whom their
conductor, Peter Platt, is said to
be an authority: the little
musical epitaph, “Sleep Quiet,
Lee,” was beautifully done, and
the novelty piece, “Country
Cries,” two pages of close-print,
of conversation between farmer
and son, hare-coursing calls,
hawking calls, the cry of the
itinerant gelder, etc., although
not given with complete
certainty, so pleased the audience
with their humor as to require
an encore.
* ❖ ❖
Brahms Lieder
Mary Blake’s voice is difficult
to categorise. Her low register
is pure contralto; in its high
reaches she moves into the
mezzo-soprano class with ease.
Always, however, it is produced
effortlessly and used with
artistry; and it held the special
subtlety demanded in the
Brahms songs she sang at the
Cammeray (Sydney) Music
Group’s concert.
“Meine Liebe ist Grun” is one
of the composer’s most pro-
foundly felt and sensuous love-
songs, and its ardency was well
captured. “Vergerliches Stand-
chen” was notable for the under-
current of seriousness, subtly
conveyed, which is inherent in
this expression of serenading
light-heartedness.
Artbursts
Jean Derrin
The influence of G. K. Towns-
hend is obvious in Jean Derrin’s
watercolors at Sydney Grosvenor
Galleries ; and at the same time
it is interesting to see how Miss
Derrin has developed as a sensi-
tive and accomplished water-
colorist in her own right.
Having the same firm drawing
and, at her best, something of
the same dexterity in laying on
a wash, what she adds to
Townshend, thereby making her
own distinctive statement, is
feminine warmth and softness —
useful qualities, too, to add to
that austere master. The soft
pinks that warm the grass and
grey sky in “Basket Willow,” the
lightness and gentleness of the
greens in “Mordialloc Creek” —
these are the things that Miss
Derrin says for herself; and
says charmingly.
Though she has previously
shown at the Moreton Galleries
in Brisbane, where her work sold
very well, this is Miss Derrin’s
first one-man show in Sydney ;
but she has been coming increas-
ingly into prominence at the
Watercolor Institute and the
Royal Art Society exhibitions
for some years.
Her work is still uneven: in
fact it is on two distinct levels
—one both tonally and emotion-
ally flat, the other lyrical. About
half the pictures are in the flat
category; but the ones to look
at are the other half: especially
(in addition to “Basket Willow”
and “Mordialloc Creek”) “Edge
of the Forest” and “The
Crossing.”


BIELSDOWN WATER
by melva
vincent
IF the bell-ringers had pre-
sented their programme on
Friday instead of Thursday
night, it is safe to say that
the Venables family and Aunt
Mih would never have discovered
the amazing qualities of the
Bielsdown Water.
Because of the bell-ringers’
visit, the girl who “helped” Mrs.
Venables was absent on Friday
and the children were present.
Maggie was absent because she
was bilious. She explained the
next week that “the playing was
so lovely I come to the bottom
of the bag of chocs ’Erb give me
before X knew I’d started.”
The children were present be-
cause they were too tired to go
to school, but they displayed in-
defatigable energy in pestering
the mother. They spent the day
“getting under her feet,” “giving
her the hoopies” and “the
dithers” and, finally, “a splitting
headache,” thus upsetting routine
to such an extent that at six-
thirty little Jimmy was still sit-
ting in his high-chair mashing
a coddled-egg when the rest of
the family sat down to their
creamed-salmon.
By the time the mother sub-
sided on to her chair, her fatigue
was so extreme that the sight of
the food nauseated her. Not one
of her family noticed her col-
lapse. The oldest girl, Marian,
was concocting one of her
extravagant stories; Pen and
Jane were intent on their food,
and the father was mentally
savoring the rolling sentences of
the leader he had written for that
day’s issue of the local news-
paper which he owned and
edited.
The mother dropped her
hands to her lap, and there in
the pocket of her apron she felt
the stiff outline of the letter
which she had not yet opened.
She brought it out, and her gaze
lingered tenderly on the large
handwriting. Perceptibly she
relaxed. “Darling Min,” she
thought. She opened the en-
velope, and less than one minute
later she was crying. Almost im-
mediately she was joined by
Jimmy and Jane.
The father cried out: “Good
Lord! What’s wrong?” Natur-
ally he looked grave because he
assumed that some member of
his wife’s family was either dead
or near death. “Here, give me the
letter. Marian, get that letter!”
The more anxious he became,
the more angry and peremptory
his voice sounded, so that the
room vibrated. This had the
strange effect of quietening the
mother, who sniffed valiantly.
She could not find a handker-
chief, so wiped her face with the
corner of her apron; then she
looked at the apron with sur-
prise, and said unsteadily,
“Good Lor’. I’ve still got my
apron on. Now that shows what
a dither I’ve been in.’.’ By the
>tipie she had untied it and
draped it over the back of her
chair, she was completely
recovered; in fact, she looked
remarkably refreshed.
The father gazed at her with
unmasked amazement. This was
shared, to varying degrees, by
the gaping children, the tears
still wet on their cheeks.
“What got into you?”
demanded the father in a very
aggrieved tone.
“Wel-1-1,” began the mother,
“I’ve had such a day with the
children without Maggie, and
they would keep under my feet
all the time, and I was really fed-
up with the little darlings, and
now ...” .
“Good Lord, why must you
always make a long tale of it?”
cried the exasperated father,
glaring first at his wife and then
at the creamed-salmon. “What’s
wrong with Min?” he demanded
through a mouthful of food.
“That’s what I’m coming to.
She’s very miserable because . .
She hesitated. She sought words
carefully, looking swiftly around
at the children’s anxious faces.
It was obvious they had to be
soothed. “Well, Auntie Min
wants a baby and she —just
doesn’t seem able to find one.”
“Ho,” cried the father. “Ha.
Is that all?” A wide grin
spread over his face.
“Well, now, perhaps I
can give Don”
The mother inter-
rupted hastily, “Marian,
have you a hanky?—
because I’m sure Jane
hasn’t and look at her f ”
TANE relieved the congestion
** with a spacious sweep of her
hand. “Zena Webber has one
she doesn’t want,” she yelled in
excitement. “I heard her say so.
She said: ‘lt’s been a nuisance
right from 'the start and the
sooner someone takes it orf of
me the better.’ She told Mr.
Tuft. I heard her. And she
meant it, because she said, ‘l’m
bloody sure of that even if I’m
not sure of its father.’ What did
she mean? That’s funny, isn’t it?
How could it have any father
when she isn’t married?”
“Amazing,” replied the father,
in excellent humor. “That’s
certainly a poser, madam, that
is. Looks as though variety is
the source as well as the spice
of life.” (
“Oh, dear,” sighed the mother.
“Now, Ray. And I do wish you
would not listen to what people
are talking about, Jane. It isn’t
nice. And that word Zena said,
you know very well you mustn’t
say.”
“Now what have I said?”
demanded the father, looking
pained. “All I said was”
“But I didn’t say ‘bloody.’
Zena did.”
Very flustered, the mother
commanded, “Now please do
hurry up. Oh dear, Jimmy and
Jane should be in bed.”
“Yes, it’s certainly a very
funny thing about Zena,” mur-
mured the father pleasantly,
determined in the fashion of
most fathers to enjoy to the full
the innocence of his children.
Instantly the mother hastened
to attempt a safeguard, realis-
ing intuitively what the father
overlooked. “They talk, you
know,” she said warningly,
pursing her lips and giving him a
critical glance.
Marian, acutely aware of this
undercurrent, realised that here
was a mystery to be solved.
Unlike Jane she never made a
direct approach. She said:
“Mrs. Trimmerton has twelve
children. Perhaps she could tell
Auntie Min how to get one.”
“Excellent idea! ” applauded
the father. Then he added:
“Perhaps they could exchange
techniques to their mutual
benefit.”
'T'HE mother looked very
pained indeed. She said
reproachfully, “Oh, how could
you! ”
But he detected the slight
tremor at the corner of her lips
so, while the going was good, he
continued, “Of course Mrs.
Trimmerton lives right on the
Bielsdown. That probably has a
lot to do with it. How many’s
she had since they came here?
Eight in five years, isn’t it? Yes,
then it must be the Bielsdown
water. It just bears out what
I’ve always said. The water from
the Bielsdown increases fertility.”
“What’s fertility?” asked
Marian. “And I don't see how
it can do anything about babies
because Mrs. Pipson lives near
the Bielsdown and she only has
two.”
“Ah, yes, but Mrs. Pipson has
tanks! She drinks tank-water
most of the time. She’d only
drink Bielsdown water when
there wasn’t any in the
tanks. Now how many tanks has
Mrs. Trimmerton, eh?” He ex-
panded his chest, put a very
comical smile on his face, and
looked around the table at the
children.
“None,” chorused Marian and
Jane.
“That’s why the kids stink,”
stated Jane.
“Jane! ” remonstrated the
mother.
“Well, they do, don’t they,
Pen? Pen had to sit near Deirdre
at Scripshaw and it made her
sick, didn’t it, Pen? And any rate
Miss Wimbles sent Roxy home
to have a bath last week, and his
mother sent him back with a
note, didn’t she, Marian?”
“Yes, she did,” corroborated
Marian. “And the note said she
sent him to school to learn him,
not smell him, and that it was
too cold yet for him to go in the
crick, and if Miss Wimbles
wanted him bathed for her to
come over and draw the water
from the crick —that’s what she
calls ‘creek’ because it took
her all her time to get enough
for them to drink.”
“How much would you have
to get for twelve children to
drink?” inquired Jane.
Pen said in a horrified voice,
“Deirdre picks the dirt off her
knees.” Her clear grey eyes
opened to their fullest extent.
“Does she, indeed?” asked the
father, interested. “With a pro-
tective coating like that she’d
need less clothes. Are all the
children in this happy state?”
The children thought for a
while. At last Marian said
slowly, “You can’t often see
Kerry’s freckles, but you can
when he’s had a drink at the tap.
Just a few of them on his chin
and a bit on his cheeks.”
“I don’t like this conversation
at all,” said the mother firmly. “I
don’t want to hear any more
about the Trimmer tons. Now
will you all please finish your
tea? I started a long while after
all of you and I’m finished first.
So hurry up. I’m going to put
poor little Jimmy to bed. Mind
you, I don’t want to hear any
more about these people. Thank
goodness they don’t belong here
and let’s hope they soon move
away. I can’t understand why
they stay here when Mr. Trim-
merton is always away out
West.”
In the silence that followed
her departure, the three girls
thought of the Trimmertons. As
they ate they looked at a
mental picture of the Trimmer-
tons’ ramshackle humpy. They
saw it as it presented itself to
travellers on the North-
road —a low, flat-roofed
square of rusted kero-
sene-tins, belted out to
a flat, if much dented,
surface. The corru-
gated-iron chimney was
stuck on like a squashed
funnel, and was never
seen without its plume
of smoke. Thinking of
it, the children smelt the
exciting coal-fumes.
Marian whispered,
“The kids get* the coal
from the line. It’s got
such a nice smell.”
“Not now,” said Jane
in her normal tones,
which were loud and
clear. Pen nudged her
with her knee. “Not
now,” hissecl Jane. “I
heard Ricardo saying
that was too slow, so
they wait till no one’s
about and they snitch
it'right from that thing
behind the train-injin.” Her dark
blue eyes danced with delight.
“A-h-h-h,” breathed the father.
“They’re regular trimmers, these
Trimmertons, aren’t they?”
The girls looked at him with
pride. “Oh, Daddy, you're so
clever,” whispered Marian.
Jane laughed, kicking her
heels on the rung of the chair.
Pen’s slow quiet smile disclosed
her tiny teeth and set two stars
in her eyes.
The mother’s voice called them
all to order.
“J can hear you,” she cried.
“You know very well what good
ears I have.”
'The father grinned at the girls.
“Ah yes. We know all about
your mother’s ears. All the
Noptons have long tongues, but
your mother has long ears
as well.”
They waited fgr the mother to
attack, but there was only the
sound of Jimmy being a good
boy. Amost immediately there
was an indignant cry from him.
“They’re listening to me.”
“Oh, dear,’> cried the mother,
now really exasperated. “You
might try to be of some help,
Ray. I’ve had an awful day.
And now see what you’ve done.”
“Me!” cried the father. “It’s
Jimmy who has cut off the
supply. It’s nothing to do with
me.” However, he turned to the
girls: “Hurry up now. Have you
all finished? Good. We’ll get
this table cleared, and hurry off
to bed when you’ve washed up.
You’ve got a big job tomorrow.
Papers to go to the butchers.”
day while the papers
were being bundled up the
subject of the astounding
property of the Bielsdown water
came up again.
All around the foot of the
guillotine the old newspapers
were tumbled, hundreds of Syd-
ney papers and many more
country “exchanges.” Dick, the
linotype-operator, had tossed
them all down from the top of
the long, broad deal shelves
which held the “good” paper
used for the making of invoice
books, bill-heads and letter-
heads. The newsprint was not
stacked here, but stood in eight-
foot-high stacks near the entrance
and down the side of the wall
adjacent to the Wharf dale
printing-machine.
Pen, Jane and Jimmy had been
set to work to stack the news-
papers into flat piles, while
Marian was entrusted with the
important task of withdrawing
from the heap any papers which
had been mutilated by the copy-
seeking scissors. The father was
bundling the stacks into graded
sizes.
Dick was scrubbing with
astounding energy at the formes
of type with an old scrubbing-
brush, which he kept saturating
in a low-cut kerosene-tin half-
filled with kerosene, ink-stained
to a viscous black.
Everyone was happy. The
father was singing cheerfully,
“Ta-ra-ra boom-dy-ay, this is
mother’s washing-day,” in a
pleasant tenor voice, that was
much admired by the children.
“She’s throwing too much
out,” whined Pen plaintively.
Marian, flushed from her exer-
tions, looked up, hurt that her
conscientious thoroughness was
being criticised.
“Butcher Black said last time
he did not want any holey paper
or Government-gazettes,” she
stated with emphasis ; and went
back to her task with renewed
vigor.
Dick lifted a full - sized
kerosene-bucket, abrim with
water. He stood between the two
formes, one propped on each
side of the doorway, and was
flexing his muscles for this
glorious t moment of sluicing
when a voice cried out, “Hey!
Hey! Hold on a minute.”
Footsteps pounded up the
twelve steps, and into the office
dashed one of the bank-man-
agers. “Y’know, Venables,” he
said in friendly disapproval,
“you fellows should shout a
warning before you start throw-
ing that evil mess around.”
“Splash, splash,” went the
water behind him, and over the
floor of the entrance and down
the steps flowed an inky stream.
Little black drops peppered
either side of the indented walls
that faced the steps, and added
another fine coating to the grey-
black selvedge of the pile of
newsprint just inside the door.
He approached the “stone”
where the father was standing.
“Well, have you heard the
news?” His face was so glowing
that it was at once apparent that
the news was good.
“Ah. So it’s arrived, eh?”
“Yes. Son and heir at mid-
night.”
“Good. Splendid! Both well?”
“Marvellous. Thriving.”
The two men had the broad
self-complacent smirk on their
faces that most men display at
the announcement of an event in
which they have had only the
briefest participation.
All the children had paused in
their work, and, seated on the
newspapers, they stared
up at the visitor’s glowing
countenance.
“Have you a new baby?”
inquired Marian.
“Yes, a boy. What do you
think of that? A big, bouncing
boy. Wait till you see him.”
There was only one thought in
Marian’s mind and that was
such an urgent desire that,
swallowing nervously, she asked
clearly, “Did your wife have to
have Bielsdown water?”
The bank-manager displayed
justifiable mystification.
AN explosive laugh burst from
the father, and his face was
tinged with a delicate pink. Even
his bald patch did not escape
the relentless flood.
“H’rump,” he cleared his
throat. “It’s like this, Thomp-
son,” he said. “They can’t under-
stand why their Aunt can’t get
a baby, and everyone round here
can. So I was saying to them
last night that perhaps it was
the Bielsdown water.” As he
talked, his confusion departed
and he was now happily develop-
ing his theme. “In fact,” he con-
tinued, throwing out his chest a
little and straddling his legs fur-
ther apart, “I think we might be
able to make a good tourist-
attraction of it. Try the Biels-
down waters to cure childless-
ness! We might have people
{Continued on page 22)


o
-*v<
0
a
D
o
0
o
O
6
0
&
TELEPHONE
EQUIPMENT
I & Wrs:
n*>
n-ro'"
Needing an efficient, reliable and trouble-free
method of inter-phone communication?
Then, here is the answer.
Easy to instal —foolproof in opera-
tion. Save money, time and labour. Suitable
for operation anywhere, anytime Hotels,
Factories, Farms, etc. Room to Room.
House to House.
OENEY PHONES. Compact wall or desk Tele-
phone. Built into a polished wooden box. Dimen-
sions 92ins. x 7ins. x 32ins. Externally mounted
double-action, loud-ringing bells. Fitted with
standard P.M.G. handset, and generator. Can be
used effectively over distances up to 20 miles.
PRICE (with batteries) £6/10/- each.
FREDDIE PHONES. Entirely self-contained unit,
incorporating: a powerful three-bar hand generator,
externally mounted loud-ringing, double-action bells.
Inbuilt battery compartment, containing two standard
1.5 volt X cells. Complete with standard P.M.G. handset.
PRICE (with batteries) £B/10/- each.
NVWA33AS 303
■FARMERS
■BUILDERS
■SURVEYORS
■SPORTSMEN, ETC.
TELEPHONE WIRE. Don 111 Cable in three-mile reels, £l9/10/- reel. Don 111
Cable in one-mile reels, £6/10/- reel. 600 yd. reels Telephone Cable, £3/10/- reel.
HV39 ONldWnd
gs
TELESCOPES &
SIGHTS
»
FISHERMEN
c
LIGHTING
EQUIPMENT
BATTERIES
• SPECIAL ATTENTION
GIVEN TO MAIL
ORDERS. WHEN
ORDERING PLEASE
QUOTE LETTER “A”
IN YOUR CORRES-
PONDENCE.
PUMP & MOTOR
0
(As illnstrated at left)
The answer to your pumping problems.
Brand new! Suitable for pumping
water or any other liquid. Ideal as
bilge pumi>, small irrigation systems
pump, tank pump, etc. Bump has a
capacity of 400 gals, per
hour. Complete with 24 volt
motor. Beady for immediate
use on 24 or 32 volt systems,
or may be used on 12 volt
at reduced pumping capa-
city. PRICE:—
With Motor (new) £l5 0 0
With Motor (S/H) £l2 10 «
Pump only £3 10 0
700 gals, per hour
model, with Motor
(S/H) £l4 10 0
FUEL PUMPS
These Pumps are suitable for pumping water
or other liquids, and have a capacity of
approx. 400 gallons per hour.
The following types are available: —
English Immersion Pumps, 12 volt .. £5 0 0
English Immersion Pumps, 24 volt . . £3 10 0
Immersion Pumps with adjustable
immerser, 24 volt £5 0 0
BLOWER MOTORS
80 volt Blower Motor. Can' be used with an
8 MFD Condenser or 200 watt globe in series,
and will run direct from 230-240 volt A.C.
PRICE £2/10/-
24 volt model. Can be used on either A.C.
or D.C. Ideal for use with car air conditioning
system. Will operate effectively on 12 volt.
PRICE 39/6
HYDRAULIC RUMPS
The following models in Hydraulic Pumps are now avaUable.
Pesco —34 volt, 95 amp., 4000 r.p.m., 21 H.P., COOlbs. per
sq. ins* Brand new, in original packing
Eclipse—24 volt, approx. 70 amp., 2 H.P., 600 lbs. per sq.
in. Brand new, in original packing
Eclipse—24 volt, approx. 70 amp., 2 H.P., 6001bs. per sq.
in. Used
English—24 volt, 60 amp., 2 H.P., 6001bs. per sq. in.
Brand new
Vickers —pump only, lOOOlbs. per sq. in., piston
operation. New £l5. Used
Three Stage Pumps—l2oolbs. per sq. in. This model-is
especially useful for operating fork lifts, or similar
equipment, £lO. Smaller model, 6001bs. per sq. m.
£6 1(1 0
£5 0 0
£3 10 0
£7 10 0
£l2 10 0
£7 10 0
ENGLISH ANGLE SCOPES
Makes right-angle or vertical vision
easy, cutting down eye-strain and
fatigue. The perfect Telescope for the
marksman, giving a clear X 6 magnifica-
tion of the target, without the necessity
of changing position. Ideal also as a
Spotting Telescope, Astronomical Sight-
ing Scope, etc. Easily mounted by
means of three bolt holes in the mount-
ing .plate. Brand new.
PRICE £5
Postage & Packing 5/-, Interstate 6/6.
TELESCOPIC SIGHTS
* STAR BARGAIN
A snap for the marksman or surveyor! !
These Sights represent remarkable value at
the price. Fitted with finest quality lenses,
easily converted for use as ritte sight, sur-
veyor’s sighting telescope, and many other
uses where a first-class sight is necessary.
Magnification X 3. Dimensions: Length, "2ins
approx.; eye-piece lens, lin.; eye-relief, 3ins.;
weight, 16ozs.
PRICE £2/19/6
Reg. Postage & Packing 5/-, Interstate 6/-.
DIAL SIGHTS
If yon require a cheap and extremely accurate
levelling device, then this Sight is the answer.
Suitable for all types of levelling. Gives 6
power magnification. Incorporates a rotating
objective prism which turns through 360 deg.
A clear azimuth scale is marked below the
rotating head. Permits very fine adjustment.
PRICE £6/10/-
Postage & Packing 7/-, Interstate 10/6.
dfg
Fishermen! ! ! ! If you need a strong, flexible rod,
made from super-tempered tubular steel, costing
a fraction of the price of its commercial equivalent,
then here is good news.
These Tank Whip Aerials are in 4ft. sections, in
i either screw-in or plug-in fittings. Because of their
extreme strength, lightness and flexibility they are
ideally suited for use either as fishing rods,
or car-truck aerials.
The following types are available:—
American screw-in type, brand new, 3 section
(12ft.) Per set 35/-
English slotted type, 3 section (12ft.), per set 22/6
English slotted type, 2 section (Bft.) 15/-
Aerial Bases, to fit above each 5/- and 7/6
Packing and Freight, all States, 5/-.
PRISMATIC
COMPASSES
Prismatic Pocket Compass—stand-
ard Army dry Card type. Compact
and reliable. Fitted with a clear
prism, and hair line, for taking
bearings. Delicately mounted
with adjustable circle, stabiliser
and thumb ring. Ideal for Sur-
veyors, Hikers, Scouts, etc.
PRICE £6/10/-
Reg. Postage & Packing 4/-,
Interstate 5/-. 1
FLYING EQUIPMENT
HELMETS. Ex-Air Force leather helmets, chamois leather lined.
Brand new, fitted with leather covered zipp ear covers, which
take flat type Gosport ehrpieces 35/- eack
GOSPORT TUBES 15 /-
FLYING GOGGLES. Type Mk. IVB. These goggles were manii
factored to a high quality standard demanded by Air Force
specifications. Complete with adjustable sun visor. Suitable for
a variety of purposes in addition to flying—Motor Cyclists,
Tractor Drivers, Truck Drivers 11/6 pair.
Postage & Packing 4/-, Interstate 6/6.
COMPUTORS. Aircraft Navigational Computors. Mk. HID. In
good used condition. Roller blind, with ICAN callibration on
metal cover. Fitted with average, speed, time and distance cal-
culation, which is especially useful to car trial drivers. 45/- each.
Postage & Packing 5/-, Interstate 6/-.
GENERATORS
Precision built, selling for a fraction of original cost. These
Generators are easily adaptable for Industrial and Home Light-*
ing requirements.
30 volt, 30 amp., Eclipse £25 0 0
12 volt, 750 watt, Type LXZ M... £7 10 0
12 volt, 750 watt, Tandem £5 0 0
REG. & CUTOUTS
24 and 30 volt. Brand new. Made by Bendix. Suitable also for
,ise with motors, either petrol or diesel driven.
PRICE £3/10/-
* Postage & Packing 5/-, Interstate 6/-
12 volt, 40 amp 9/11 eacli
12 volt, 60 amp 25/- each.
Postage & Packing 4/-, Interstate 5/-
AMMETERS
50-0-50 D.C. Centre scale reading”. New 50/- each
Postage & Packing 4/-, Interstate 5/-.
LIGHTS
»T tits, STGNAEEING EAMPS. 12 or 24 volt, 36 watt. The perfect light for night
shootfng? moo™ii?ht for boats, or any purpose where a powerful concentrated beam
is needed. Pistol grip fitted with trigger switch, and reflector angle adjustor.
PRICE, Complete with Sight, £l2/10/-; Minus Sight, £4/19/6
U CAS HEAD LAMPS. Brand new, in original boxes. Sin. headlamp with
reflector, adjustable ball joint base fitting. Glossy black finish. 6, 12 or 24 volt, as
required.
PRICE £2/17/6
AIRCRAFT E ANDES'G EIGHTS. 7Jin. sealed beam unit with 24 volt 600 watt Mazda
Lamp. Fitted with 24 volt Motor and gearing to alter angle of beam.
PRICE, with Motor, £2/10/-; less Motor, £l/5/-; Motor only, £l/5/-
TRAFFIC CONTROE EAMP. Used for controlling aircraft from ground. Has facilities
for switching coloured filters in front of the globe to produce clear, green or red colours
by the turn of a handle. These are a Signal Lamp, and not suitable for use as a
spotlight. Complete with leads, and in solid wooden transit case.
PRICE £7/10/-
Brand new—in original storage state —never been charged.
2 volt 20 amp. hour, as illustrated bottom left. In bakelite
case 7ins. x Sins, x 22ins. Weight 321bs. _ Suitable for model
aircraft, flounder spearing, spotlight shooting, etc. 10/- each.
Brand new lightweight aircraft model. 24 volt, .11 amp. hour.
American made. Built in sturdy metal case, as illustrated top
left. ' Ideal for caravan, small ship lighting, and many other
purposes 39 /6 each
Other models in stock are:—
12 volt, 20 amp. hours £2 19 6 each
24 volt, 34 amp. hours £4 17 6 each
PLASTACELE...
WONDER PLASTIC SHEET
Cellulose Acetate Sheet. Made by the Du Pont Co.
of America. Far superior to any other Plastic
Sheet on the market. Fight—Flexible—Clear —
Pliable —Non-inflammable —Durable.
Can easily b« Cut —Formed —Solvent Bonded —
Laminated.
Useful in Caravans, Cars, Boats, Building Con-
struction, Models, Window Display, etc., etc.
Sizes available:—
23in. x 21in. x 3/l«in. .. 45/- sheet
25in. x Slin. x 5/321n. .. 42/6 sheet
50ln. x Slin. x 3/16in. .. 90/- sheet
50in. x Slin. x 5/32in. .. 85/- sheet
Packing' and delivery to railhead
an extra 5/-
"RADIO CORNER"
ATS TRANSMITTER
Complete with 3 x 807 valves, 3 x 6V6G
valves. Good condition £4/19/6
\ ■ *
ATS AERIAL COUPLING UNIT
Complete with all tuning- condensers, Relays
and 0/100 M/A Meter with Thermo Couple.
Good condition £l/2/6
BEACON RECEIVERS
Small sized light weight 5 Valve Aircraft Receiver. Frequency
coverage 195KC-420KC. Suitable to convert to car radio. Height
4in., width 4in., length 6§in., weight 41hs £5/17/6
A
MA
96 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
MAIL ORDER: P.O. BOX 22, OXFORD STREET
TRADING CG
BRANCHES ALSO AT:
319-321 Swanston Street and
393 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE


For Sightseeing! For Comfort!
Fly Kangaroo Route
to EUROPE
m
m
i)
i
mt
''/Z
% Vi
ar i
V, %, t
" >/
,9
I i -*#
rs.
rj
1
YOUR CHOICE OF THESE SERVICES...
The Connoisseur. De-luxe first-class
service. Sleeper chairs. Four cabin attend-
ants. Standard first-class fare.
Qantas Tourist Service. Fly by Super
Constellation at 20% saving on first-class
fare! Stop-over anywhere en route.
Majestic. Luxurious first-class service
on 8.0.A.C. Constellations. Impeccable
service in the finest British tradition.
Coronet. Money-saving Tourist service
cuts costs but not comfort. Full stop-
over privileges.
To Europe and the
U.K. the QANTAS-
8.0.A.C. Kangaroo route
is the ideal way to travel!
Flying in giant Super
Constellation and Constellation
airliners, you may choose
unsurpassed first-class service or
budget-wise tourist service—both
finest in their class ! And, if you
wish, stop-over at any port of call
—there’s no additional air fare!
See the great cities of the Far
East and Europe ! Your
Travel Agent will gladly
supply full details.
Every first-class passenger
enjoys the “Sleeper-chair” for
day and night comfort on
Super Constellation services!
sdf
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., (inc. In Q’land.)
in parallel with 8.0.A.C.
OANTAS MAC
London
Frankfurt
Karachi
Calcutta
Bangkok
Beirut
Singapore
Bombay
Colombo*'* l-1
Rome
Cairo
Djakarta
Darwin
Sydney
35 YEARS OF FLYING EXPERIENCE
coming here from all quarters of
the globe, as they go to Lourdes
or Bath or any of those other
places. -Now,” he said, pausing
and looking directly at the
faintly smiling Thompson, “you
must admit you did not have any
success till you came here.”
“Quite right,” assented
Thompson. In his present elated
state of mind he probably would
have assented to anything.
“There you are, then,” said
the father triumphantly. “And
no doubt you’ve been out picnic-
king since you came here, and
made billy-tea with water from
the Bielsdown.”
“Certainly. That’s a fact,”
agreed Thompson, smiling
benignly on the children.
“Well then, what I’m thinking
of doing is to get a bottle of that
remarkable water and post it to
the children’s Aunt. What do
you think of that?” His chin
sank on to his chest, his cheeks
bulged out, his lower lip Was
thrust upwards, and his eyes
beamed over his gold-rimmed
spectacles. Even Jimmy looked
impressed.
“Oh, Daddy, will you?” cried
Marian.
“We shall see what we shall
see,” stated the father, hedging,
and already regretting his fanci-
ful impulse.
A peculiar choking snort came
from Dick, who was now about
to lift one of the formes on to
the old Columbia press.
“Did you say anything, Dick?”
inquired the father blandly.
It took Dick a long time to
reply, and when he did his voice
was strangled as though his
mouth were full of food. “Musta
swallered a fly,” it said.
“When are you going to
decide?” asked Marian. “This
afternoon?”
“H’mm.” The father con-
sidered. “I must go into * the
matter carefully. We must be
sure first. It wouldn’t do to dis-
appoint your Aunt.” He could
see Marian’s mouth opening, so
he said hastily, “Now line up.
Jimmy first.”
He placed a small bundle in
Jimmy’s arms, as big as a loaf
of bread. “Now, Jane. Ha. Jane
can manage this. And Pen. . .”
“Oh,” groaned Pen, stagger-
ing. “It’s too heavy.”
“What!” cried the father.
“It’s not as big as Jane’s.”
“And she expects to get the
same money!” yelled Jane, rest-
ing her dimpled chin on her
bundle and regarding Pen with
hostile eyes.
“Here you are, Marian,” com-
manded the father, ignoring
them. “Now you’re all set.
Ready. Set. March. And be care-
ful going down those steps.
They’re slippery. Here, Dick,
help Jimmy, will you?”
Dick stood on the dirt-
footpath watching the children
go in Indian-file across the broad
vacant allotment where myriads
of golden everlasting-daisies
lifted radiant disks to the sun.
He could hear Pen saying, some-
what indignantly, “I hope no
one sees us. I’m not. going to
carry any next time, see.
People’ll think we’re common .”
"CARLY that afternoon the
children went out to play in
the everlasting-daisy patch.
All of them carried a quart-
billy made from old syrup-tins,
and into these they pressed the
heads of the gathered daisies.
The girls forked their forefinger
and middle-finger under the
flower-head and,jerkingupwards,
severed it from the stiffly-
upright stalk. They felt the
curious dry petals rasping as they
pressed them into the billy, and
against the tin sides a rustling
sounded like the scraping of
minute crabs. Jimmy grabbed
the daisies in the cup of his hand
and pulled, contorting his face
and breathing gustily, through
dilating nostrils. Often he fell
over, and when he did this he
lay for a while among the
pungent foliage, gazing into the
clear sky.
They were content. Their play
was exalted to the importance of
industry, because this was no
senseless, indiscriminate vandal-
ism: they were gathering pro-
duce. They were as important as
the pea-picker, as diligent as
the potato-gatherer or the
garnerer of grapes; they were
the filchers of fairy-flour: for
this was the secret of the ever-
lasting-daisy: its centre golden
medallion ‘yielded, when prised
from its delicate green socket, a
teaspoonful' of floss that could
be tumbled into a derelict basin
and beaten with an old whisk
until it was judged to be “as
light as a feather,” when it was
ladled into rusted patty-tins and
placed in a decrepit stove to
cook.
Marian was helping Jimmy
fill his tin, and Jane and Pen were
wrangling over some spilt heads,
when Selina Goss arrived. She
was a few months younger than
Marian, but looked older be-
cause she was taller, wore horn-
rimmed spectacles and had a
composed manner. The Venables
children accepted her as their
chief guardian.
“Stop squabbling,” she said
now, with the calm assurance of*
a mother who has just benefited
from a successful holiday. Pen
and Jane opened their mouths
simultaneously, but Selina fore-
stalled them. With practical
good-sense, which was charac-
teristic of her, she said, “I’ll
count them and halve them.”
Order restored, they found
that all billies were full, so went
back to their “kitchen” under the
house. As the block of land
sloped steeply downwards from
the footpath, the back of the
house was very much higher off
the ground than the office, which
occupied the front of the build-
ing. Between the twelve-foot-
high piles various make-believe
rooms were marked off with old
boards and palings. In one of
these the children sat in a circle,
so crowded together that their
elbows were constantly colliding
as they garnered the fairy-flour
and sifted it through their fingers
into receptacles which varied
from a chipped enamel basin to
a handleless soup-tureen/
While they worked they
acquainted Selina with the sad
plight of their Aunt Min and
of their father’s statement that
he might send her a bottle of
the miraculous Bielsdown water.
Well aware that she was being
stupidly audacious, but driven on
by her conscientious guardian-
ship, Selina regarded Marian
gravely. Her head was bent a
little so that her bobbed flaxen
hair fell forward in a glistening
sheet against her beautiful skin.
Her lips moved experimentally
over her prominent front teeth
and her tongue darted out to
lubricate them for their difficult
task: “You know, Marian,” she
said in her slow drawl, “I think
your father’s pulling your leg.”
Marian flushed with anger,
and her chin was squared by the
tightened jaw-muscles. Selina’s
calm green eyes, clear as water
running over sand, regarded that
flashing dark gaze steadily. She
said in a mollifying tone, “I’m
sure if you asked Mrs. Trimmer-
ton you’d find it was nothing to
do with the Bielsdown water.
For one thing everyone says she
drinks mostly beer.”
“Beerl ” all the children
shrieked, except Marian, who
was still brooding. They were
delighted, but aghast. “But only
men and Mrs. Billy Boyce drink
beer,” yelled Jane, and fell over
backwards kicking her fat legs
and shrieking with laughter.
“Daddy said it could be the
Bielsdown water,” said Marian
stubbornly, “and that he’d make
inquiries.”
Selina did not say anything.
She was convinced that the
begetting of children was in no
way connected with any food or
drink, but here her knowledge
ceased. Being of a placid nature
she was quite content to await
enlightenment; but she was
somewhat disturbed by the scowl
which had settled oh Marian’s
face, so to make amends she
said:
“Dad’s going down to the
creek this arvo to get Mum some
maidenhair, so if you like we
can go with him and get a bottle
of water. It won’t hurt to
try it.”
“Where’s the maidenhair?”
asked Marian quietly, and when
Selina replied that it was just
below Trimmertons’ she said,
“Well, I’ll see if we can go. I’ll
ask Daddy.” She did not disclose
a fantastic plan which had just
unfurled in her fertile mind.
The father said he supposed
they could all go if they promised
not to go near the creek them-
selves but to allow Mr. Goss
to obtain the water. This was
a very opportune development,
he decided, because it would
protect him from future pester-
ing. To put it bluntly, his little
joke was beginning to wear a bit
thin. “Go upstairs,” he directed,
“and get a small bottle.”
C'O Marian went upstairs and
asked for a small bottle.
The mother v/as not at all
pleased about this latest decision.
Firstly, she said, she would not
be happy until she saw them all
safely home because she did not
trust any man to look after
children properly ; secondly they
were all untidy, and thirdly she
was very much, very much in-
deed, against this absurd business
of sending Minny a bottle of
Bielsdown water. She was sure
Min would not be at all happy
about this outrageous activity.
She would never, never again
read a letter at the meal-table.
She had never done so in the
past, and certainly would not
do so in the future. If only the
bell-ringers had come on a
Friday! Oh, what on earth
would Min think!
“Rubbish,” the father called
out. “Her mind is as generous
as her frame, and that’s saying
something.”
The mother pressed her lips
together so firmly that they
became invisible, and a long hair
which grew at the left side of
her lips wagged a defiant and
angry tattoo. It was still vibrat-
ing as she watched the children
going through Goss’s back gate,
and she called out sharply to
the father: “It’s all your fault.
Putting such silly ideas in their
heads. I don’t know how you
think of them.”
“What's wrong with you ? You
complain. when they’re under
your feet , all day, and now Gus
is taking them off your hands,
you’re not happy.”
“I’m not happy because I
know that look on Marian’s face.
She’s hatching something. Her
eyes are too bright. I’ve got a
feeling. . .”
“You’ve always got feelings,”
replied the father, grinhing
broadly. “Lord, I’ve never known
a woman to have more feelings
than you have.”
“Well, we’ll see,”. announced
the mother; but it was obvious
that she considered her “feel-
ings” infallible.
If Mr. Goss was surprised by
the acquisition of this unsought
entourage, he made no comment.
A happy-go-lucky man, with a
ready, boisterous laugh and a
constant good - humor, he
accepted his charge cheerfully,
and off they set towards the
creek, with Jimmy on his broad
shoulders. It wasn’t till they
were well on their way that he
learned of the purpose of their
pilgrimage. His mirth was so


Compare BRITISH BCPFORO wrtft any truck
the fads speak for themselves
As a truck operator you will * naturally examine the
market carefully before you buy any truck. A com-
parison of the facts will convince you that British
Bedford is your best truck buy.
FACT 1
Backed by over 20 years of truck manufacturing experience,
you can’t buy better than British Bedford—a General Motors’
product.
Proof of this—official registration figures show that more
Australian truckmen buy Bedford than any other make.
FACT 2
Bedford matches power to payload throughout the range, with
three extra-duty low-rewing 6 cyl. O.H.V. engines . , . B.H.P.
developments from 76 to 114.6 and maximum torque outputs
from 168.5 to 236 lb. ft.
FACT 3
Bedford chassis frames and suspensions are engineered to suit
each model. Such features as worm and sector steering, syn-
chromesh gearbox and triple-safety Lockheed hydraulic brakes
(vacuum assisted on all models above 30 cwt.) highlight
Bedford’s value.
FACT 4
On first cost, running and maintenance cost, Bedford saves you
money. Here’s what Newstead Co-operative Butter & Cheese
Factory Co. Ltd. of Newstead, Victoria, say about tHfcir
Bedfords . . . “We have found Bedford second to none for
all round performance, and find they are capable of over
100,000 miles of trouble-free- running without any major
overhauls. One of our trucks still in constant use has now
covered over 200,000 miles, and, of this mileage, 160,000 was
reached before a rebore” . . .
gsd
Ask your dealer for details of the latest addition to
the Bedford range—the new Bedford £ TON VAN
priced at £BB5, plus tax.
9 G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase arrange-
ments are available for your convenience. Ask
your Bedford Dealer.
• Bedford is backed by a nation-wide service and
parts organisation.
CHECK BEDFORD’S PRICES FOR CHASSIS AND CAB
fgs
Model Wheelbase G.V.W.
5 tons 167' BT. 5 cwt.
5 tons (Eaton 2-speed Rear Axle)
6/7 tons 116" 10T. 6 cwt.
6/7 tons 156' 10T. 6 cwt
All prices plus Sales Tax.
Price
£1,225
£1,377
£1,505
£1,525
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
LTD.
• PERTH
843/36
gargantuan that Jimmy, with a
look of terror, clutched the
shaking head frantically, his
thumbs hooked in the fleshy ears.
“Ooooh, lemme down,” he
cried.
His eyes, large and terrified,
implored Marian to rescue him ;
but nothing could be done until
Mr. Goss had wiped his face
with a huge red square, and
trumpeted his nose several
times. Jimmy was now sobbing,
and in the end Marian had to
take him on her back before he
would quieten. There he clung
like a koala-bear, his head
buried against her neck so that
tears and nasal - discharge
blended in one sloppy mess,
which ran down into the neck
of her dress.
Mr. Goss gave his face a final
polish and then said, vainly
attempting gravity: “There
might be something in what your
father says, at that. Any rate
it’s better than ‘playing with
fire.”
T>UZZLING over this strange
remark, the children followed
him on to the bridge. Pen, at
last deciding that the dignity of
the Venableses had been assailed,
sidled up to Marian and hissed:
“It’s all your fault.”
Marian, with inward eye still
on the distant mysterious goal
of truth, ignored her. Nothing
could deter her once she had
set her mind on a task. Like
the Crusaders of old she was
capable of enduring criticism,
ridicule and even contempt
without deviating from her
purpose.
She did not disclose her fan-
tastic scheme until Mr. Goss was
safely installed with a spade and
bucket in a grove (Si tea-trees
and gums, where the maiden-
hair’s new tendrils crocheted a
filmy pattern of ebony hair-
like stalks and tiny apple-green
leaves above the cushions of the
old, dried growth. Above him
on a grassy platform the
children played, gathering the
creamy clovers. These they
intended to make into chains
for necklaces and bangles. It
was now that Marian said:
“Selina, will you mind them?
I’m going up to Mrs. Trimmer-
ton’s to ask where she gets the
water.”
“Gee whiz! ” exclaimed Selina,
realising that the fat was now
well and truly in the fire.
“Kin I come?” cried Jane
with excitement.
“I think you’re mad, Marian
Venables,” stated Pen flatly.
“Fancy going to that place. I
wouldn’t be seen going to that
place.”
“If I can get Aunt Min a baby,
then I don’t care,” said Marian
stubbornly. ' “So I’m going
whatever you say.”
Selina did not waste her time
in vain exhortations. “Well, if
you’re going, you better get a
leg on. I want to go and see
Rudolph Valentino in ‘The
Sheik’ tonight. So hurry up.”
Marian and Jane set off. They
passed the sawdust-piles of the
old sawmill, the banks of black-
berries around the rubbish-tip,
and came upon the Trimmerton
shack before they were prepared
for it. It was a shock finding it
almost squatting in the black-
berry-clumps. While they had
been walking towards it there
had seemed plenty of time ; but
now they were practically on the
doorstep—although, strictly
speaking, it did not possess a
doorstep—the enormity of the
task she had undertaken almost
paralysed Marian. She faltered,
and after a couple of steps stood
still and gazed at (he shack.
At close quarters it was even
more dilapidated than it
appeared from the North-road.
A couple of flower - beds,
raggedly outlined with the
bottoms of bottles, did nothing
to decorate, as amongst the
seeding forget-me-nots there
glistened tins of all shapes and
sizes, bits of tinsel-paper and a
few bleached bones. On a line
which stretched from the
chimney to the bag-privy flut-
tered some strips of hessian,
dyed a hideous blood-red.
Unconsciously Jane slipped
her hand into Marian’s. She
sniffed. “The place stinks,
too,” she whispered hoarsely.
Marian was to visit this place
many times in her nightmares,
but never was she to feel so
agonisingly the rooting of her
feet to the earth as when she
stood there that day. At last
she moved forward. Twice she
lifted her hand to the door that
gaped a little on its leather
thong. The third time she
managed affeeble knock.
“Who’s there?” a languid
voice inquired.
“Me,” said Marian.
“ ’Struth, and who’s me?”
asked the voice, vastly amused.
The leather thong was whipped-
off the nail by the end of a
stick, and the door slowly fell
open of its own accord.
The two children looked
inside. Mrs. Trimmerton was
seated in a homemade chair of
canvas-and-timber. In one hand
she held the stick with which
she had opened the door, and in
the other was a cigarette. This
was the first time the children
had seen a woman holding a
cigarette, and to them it was as
exciting as coming face to face
with the devil himself. They
gaped.
“Well, luv, and whose kids are
youse?” asked Mrs. Trimmerton
sociably, addressing Marian.
A/TARIAN gulped. “Our name
is Venables,” she said.
Now that she had started it
was easier to keep on and make
a clean-breast of the whole
affair, so in a rush she gasped,
“Our Aunt wants a baby and
Daddy said she might have one
if we send her some Bielsdown
water, and we want t£ know if
you think this, too.”
A very peculiar change came
over Mrs. Trimmerton. All her
lazy indifference left her and she
tautened so that even her face
lost its sloppiness, and the high
cheekbones were at once appar-
ent, throwing her eyes into a
strange shadow, which accentu-
ated their watchful suspicion.
She looked at the children and
they looked at her. At last she
asked: “Who sent youse?”
“No one. We just came our-
selves.” Marian swallowed con-
vulsively. “Daddy said he
wouldn’t send the bottle unless
we had —had . . .” She could
not think of the word, so recon-
structed the sentence. “He said
he’d have to make inquiries first
because it wouldn’t do to dis-
appoint Aunt Min. So I thought
if you said it was the water then
he’d send it, because we
worked-out you’ve had eight
children in five years, and you
always drink the water because
you haven’t any tanks.”
“You’re telling me ! ” mumbled
Mrs. Trimmerton. She lifted the
cigarette to her lips and drew on
it. In a transport of delight
Jane watched her. As Mrs.
Trimmerton exhaled, Jane’s
breath whistled through her
teeth.
“How old are you, luv?”
asked Mrs. Trimmerton
unexpectedly.
“Nine,” said Marian.
“And I’m just six!” cried
Jane.
“I’ve heard your Dad and
Mum wrapped you in cotton-
wool,” was the astounding
response.
Thinking this was a reference
to Marian’s delicate constitution,
Jane said cheerfully, “But she’s
not as skinny as she was.” She
advanced a step. She had never
seen such an exciting place in
her life before, and was anxious
to explore all its fascinations.
Marian, aware of her
intentions, pulled her back.
Mrs. Trimmerton rose from
her chair with a sigh. “Is that
the bottle?” she asked. Marian
nodded. “Here, give it to me
and I’ll fill it with the water /
drink,” she said.
She took the bottle and
plunged it into a kerosene-tin
which stood near the open fire-
place. The children heard it
gurgling. When she withdrew
it she gave it a shake and
handed it to Marian. “There,
luv,” she said, smiling, “send
that to your Aunt with my
blessings.”
A LL this adventure was
repeated in the Venableses’
drawing-room, while the father
and mother and Amy Perry
gazed in awe at the bottle,
standing in all its glory on the
burgundy - colored bebobbined
table-cover.
In those moments of silence
which followed the excited
recital, no one stirred or spoke.
Jane and Marian, with their
smudged faces raised expectantly
for blessing ; Pen, waiting to see
her father’s reaction before
declaring her feelings; the
mother, anxious to protect them
and fulfil their expectations but
with dismay dilating the pupils
of her watchful eyes; the in-
credulous father with two
freckles standing out on his bald
patch like rocks on the sea-
shore, and Amy Perry, her
glasses already misted by labored
breathing: all appeared like
figures in a tableau, which was
reflected clearly in each of the
four big mirrors of the massive
sideboard.
Amy Perry was the first to
speak. “Well, Mrs. V.,” she
wheezed, “it looks as though his
lordship has bitten-off a bit
more than he can chew this
time! ”
“They did it for the best,
Ray,” whispered the mother,
and something of her anxiety
was transmitted to the children,
who darted mystified glances
from one face to the next,
searching for a solution. Pen
muttered: “I told her not to be
mad.”
Marian reached out a protec-
tive hand towards the bottle. It
was evident that she intended
to guard it against all dangers.
She said clearly, challenging the
storm to break and be done with
it: “Will you come in an’ wrap
it up now, Daddy? In that
coriscated cardboard?”
The father’s curiously-inflated
face slowly subsided. The
freckles lay flat on his scalp.
His pent-up breath escaped hiss-
ingly. His thinned lips rolled
inwards and stretched length-
ways, giving him a grimace
which is usually associated with
the eating of bitter fruit.
Marian, clutching the bottle,
stepped forward and tugged at
his sleeve. “Come on, Daddy,
darling. You said you would.”
“H’m,” said the father,
rubbing his hand across his chin.
He cast one belligerent glance
at the mother and Amy Perry,
as though to assure them he
would have a lot more to say to
them at a later time, and turned
towards the office-door. Jane
and Pen followed.
As soon as the connecting-
door closed, the mother
whispered: “Oh, did you see
that look he gave me. Oh, he’s
so wild, and it’s none of my
fault, but he’ll blame me.” -
“Let him,” directed Amy
Perry, sprawling her arms over
the table. “The trouble is, Mrs.
V., he’s got you bluffed.” She
began to chuckle, a rich vibra-
tion that set her ample bosom
leaping. She took off her
glasses and rubbed them on the
table-cover. “Wait till Alf
Trimmerton comes back from
droving and then there’ll be
some high-jinks or I’ll be
jiggered. I wouldn’t be
surprised if he comes barging
down here to knock his
lordship’s block off.”
“Oh . . .” cried the mother,
now shaking with the combined
terror of what had passed and
what was yet to come. “But
w/ry?”
“Why!” cried Amy, still
laughing. “Come off the grass,
Mrs. V. You’ve heard of him,
haven’t you? Always looking
for a fight and here’s one ready-
made for him. It’ll be all over
the town by tomorrow that
Marian asked her for a bottle
of water.”
The mother’s lip trembled. “I
can’t see why,” she reiterated.
“His wife behaved very nicely, I
must say. She must be a much
nicer woman than I took her to
o Continued on page 34)


CLOTHES
tailored£rom
CrusaberCloth
LOOK
KEEP
FEEL Wft/WH
That is what a “Stamina” overcoat will do for you. It revels in
the rain; gives you snug, fireside warmth on the worst
night; makes you want to wear it because it looks so smart.
“Stamina” pre-tailored overcoats are made from double-warp
Pure Wool Crusader Cloth, winter-proofed, water-proofed, to
give perfect protection and years of service.
“Stamina” overcoats come in three styles Raglan, Box
Chester, and Double Breasted Polo and in popular tones of
fawn and grey.
ASK FOR
Stamina.
A
RAIN
COATS
R 2113
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divokce.
TO RONALD FRANCIS MARCHANT
late of Flat 15, 172 New South Head
Road, Edgecliff, New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE HELENA
BLANCHE MARCHANT has filed a
petition for Divorce No. 1818 of 1955 on
the "ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
3rd day of October 1955 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. ROBERTSON, PARK-
HILL, ROFE, and MOFFITT, Solicitors,
12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, in the said
State. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO NITA MAREE CHISHOLM (nee
Hardy) formerly of Auburn, New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ROBERT
EWEN CHISHOLM has filed a Petition
No. 1523 of 1955 for divorce on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the 28th day of September 1955
A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be obtained free of charge from
DEGOTARDI & PAYK, Solicitors, 263
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE USHER late of 4 Ins
Street Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
NADA CLARE USHER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1734 of 1955
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 30th September 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ABRAHAM GEORGE
BRINDLEY, Solicitor, of 195 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friends
yALSH, MICHAEL JOSEPH, known as
JOE WALSH,” formerly of Launceston
Railway, Engine Driver, last heard of
ydney in Uniform. Any person knowing
is present address is requested to com
lunicate with MESSRS. CLARKE
[EE, Solicitors, Launceston, Tasmania.
RS. ROSA FRIEDMAN, sometimes
Hied ROSE FREEDMAN, last heard of
i 1939 residing at 69 Diette^f n a
ntrance Brrosowa 4, Cracow, Po
n\ 1 anyone having any news of her since
len communicate with DWTEK
HOMAS, Solicitors, Perth, W .A,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of “National Geo-
graphic Magazine” for July, 1934. —
6108.
To sell collection of bound volumes
of The B.ulletin, once belonging to
Livingston Hopkins (“Hop”): 1881,
1884-1887, 1888 (Jul.-Dec. only),
1889, 1890 (Jan.-June only), 1891-1925
(2 vols. each year).—6llo.
To buy copy of Baker and Smith’s
Research on the Eucalypts (2nd ed.,
1920) and Hardwoods of Australia
(1919), J. Banks’s Memoirs Historical
and Scientific (ed. by G. Sutton,
1855), N. Bartley’s Australian Pioneers
and . Reminiscences (1886), Beebe’s
Half Mile Down and Belcher’s Birds
of the District of Geelong. —6lo9.
Information Sought
( 1 ) Was Lawrence Hargrave an
Australian? (2) What were his par-
ticular contributions in plane-design,
actual flying, etc. ? (3) Did he
receive adequate recognition in his
lifetime ?
(1) No, he was born in England in
1850, and came to Australia in 1866.
(2) His place in aeronautical history
chiefly rests on his production of
cellular kites, with upper and lower
surfaces curved (convex above and
concave below), which exerted much
greater lift than possible before.
Hargrave’s kites paved the way for
the heavier-than-air flying-machine.
Also, in 1889, Hargrave invented a
rotary-engine. Before his experiments
leading to the cellular kite, he experi-
mented for years on monoplane
models, variously successful, powered
in several ways (screw, compressed-
air, steam, etc.). Later in his life
Hargrave worked on a hydroplane, a
“one-wheeled car” and on “wave-
propelled vessels.” He died in July,
1915. (3) His work was not suffi-
ciently appreciated. For instance,
his 1889 rotary-engine “attracted so
little notice that its principle had Jo
be discovered over again by the
brothers Seguin in 1908” (Serle’s
Dictionary of Australian Biography).
Still, there were some, like Professor
Threlfall, president of the Royal
Society of N.S.W. in 1895, who did
early recognise the great significance
of Hargrave’s work.
* . * '* *
Aboriginal names suitable for a
home meaning “high place,” “many
trees,” “many birds” or some such ?
Attunga, Ben Bullen, high place;
Binalong, towards the high place
(sky world); Bolwarra, high; Illa-
warra, high place near the sea;
Pindari, high ground. Bellata, home
of belah-trees; Binna Burra, place
of white beech-trees; Booyong, place
of ironwood-trees; Burradoo, many
brigalow-trees; Derribong, green
trees; Nilyah, wattle-trees; Yeralla,
featherwood-tree. B'urrawang, wild
ducks; Burren Burren, plenty of
quail; Derrjwong, grey magpies;
Giro, black-satin bower-bird; Gular-
gambone, place of galah-parrot;
Joalah, haunt of the lyrebird;
Milbrulong, rosella-parrot.
* * * *
Some figures relating to the Federal
Parliamentary Pensions Fund ?
Here are the transactions of the
fund (the Parliamentary Retiring
Allowances Fund) for 1951-52 to
1953-54, as printed in the 1954-55
Federal Budget Papers. Expenditure:
Pension payments, 1951-52, £7877,
1952-53, £12,104, 1953-54, £13,149;
lump-sum payments, £6745, £2482,
£16,513; refund of contributions,
nil, nil, £583. Total expenditure,
£14,622, £14,586, £30,245. Receipts
(balance from June 30, 1951,
£55,037): Contributions by members,
£28,479, £28,392, £28,474; repayments
by members, £546, £546, £1583 ; con-
tributions from Consolidated Revenue
Fund —pension payments, £5849,
£9814, £10,490;-lump-sum payments,
£5025, £1379, £9200; interest on
investments, £2195, £2960, £4234.
Total receipts, £42,094, £43,091,
£53,981. Balance —June 30, 1952,
£82,509; June 30, 1953, £111,014;
June 30, £134,750.
* * * *
(i) Suitable soil for growing cacti?
(2) Best situation ? (5) Is it a fact
that cacti do not need watering ?
(1) Looseness of soil is essential.
A soil made up of one-third each of
good garden-loam, well-rotted, leaf-
mould and sharp, coarse sand will
make an excellent compost. To this
should be added a little ground-up
old mortar, as most cacti require a
certain amount of lime. A little
ground-up charcoal will help to keep
the soil sweet. (2) The best way to
grow cacti and other succulents is
on a rockery built in some sunny
position, and not under large trqes.
(3) It is a mistaken idea that cacti
do not need watering. Only in winter
should watering cease, and a little
water will not harm most kinds even
then. In hot weather the soil should
b’e kept at an even dampness. Should
the soil become dry for any lengthy
period in hot weather the roots will
be almost certain to suffer, and
growth will be retarded until a new
root-system forms.
:jc :js * %
How to make unbleached calico
waterproof for camping groundsheet ?
Place one quart best boiled linseed-
oil in a tin over a closed fire, whisk
in 4oz. yellow soap which has been
shredded and covered with boiling
water to form a jelly, and add also
one dessertspoon powdered alum.
Keep the mixture hot until wanted;
it can be made black by adding a
little lampblack. Wring the calico
out in water, hang it up to drain,
and, while still damp, but not
dripping, lay out on a table and
paint with one coat of the hot oil.
Allow to dry thoroughly, then give
a second coating, and then a third
if necessary. If not dried well
between the oil applications it will
be sticky.
* * * #
Gross value of production of wool
in Autralia, also value of sheep and
lambs slaughtered ?
The Acting Commonwealth Statisti-
cian supplies these figures for the five
years ended 1953-54 —Shorn and dead
wool, 1949-50, £271.5 - million;
1950-51, £615.3 million; 1951-52,
£303.8 million; 1952-53, £400.3
million; 1953-54, £388.9 million
(subject to revision). Sheep
slaughtered (including value of wool
on skins and net exports of live
sheep), 1949-50, £47.2 million;
1950-51, £69.8 million; 1951-52,
£57.5 million; 1952-53, £63.7 million;
1953-54, £66.2 million (subject to
revision). These figures exclude the
A.C.T. and Northern Territory,
details of which are not available.
The statistician further states that
“gross value of production” includes
value of sheep and lambs slaughtered
for food-use on the farm and also
production which may not have been
sold or paid for during the season
(such as wool carried over in brokers’
stores at the end of the season); it
does not include payments to wool-
growers from profits under the war-
time Wool Disposals Plan made
during the years shown. “Gross
value of production” therefore is the
value before deducting marketing- or
production-costs.
Brief Answers
R.L.: (1) The belief that there is a
vast difference between the sea-levels
of the Mediterranean and the Red
Sea is completely unfounded. The
difference is, in fact, less than a foot
—the surface of the Mediterranean
being the higher. The Dead Sea,
landlocked in Palestine, is 1300 ft.
below Mediterranean surface-level.
(2) No information as to whether
there is such a scheme, or, if
there is, any details of it....
D.R.-J.: (1) The construction of the
Transcontinental railway was financed
by the raising of loan-money. (2) No
railway has been built in Australia
by bank-credit “on Douglas Credit
lines” A.J.J.: (1) A schooner
Agnes, of 80 tons, foundered off
Brunswick River (N.S.W.) in March,
1890, with loss of all hands. Another
schooner Agnes (43 tons) was wrecked
at Bremer Bay (Q.) in April, 1892.
(2) Can find no record of a Countess
Russel being wrecked north of
Bustard Bay (Q.) J.MacB.R.: (1)
Lionel Sackvllle-West (1827-1908),
2nd Baron Sackville of Knole, had a
long career in the diplomatic service;
from 1878 to 1881 he represented
Britain in Madrid. He had several
children by a Spanish dancer, Josef a
Duran de Ortega, known also as
Pepita de Oliva. (2) Pepita, by
Victoria Sackville - West J.E.P.:
The Bulletin does not use inverted-
commas around names of ships,
houses, properties, etc.; but there is
no fixed law of syntax or language
which says it is wrong to quote such
names J.H.8.: The white cross on
the cliff-top near Mt. Victoria
(N.S.W.) commemorates a member
of the Marcus Clark family of
Sydney retailers; as a boy he
fell, over the cliff there and was
killed. The cross is painted and kept
in repair by the Marcus Clark family.
J.G.A.: The anglicised pro-
nunciation of Strzelecki is, com-
monly, “Strez-lecky,” with equal
emphasis on first and second syllables.
E.M.S.: In general terms it is
not possible to let a property at
more than the rent paid for it, even
though it is furnished by the lessee
before he lets it, unless the rent
(furnished) is determined by the
Rent Controller or a Fair Rents
Board. But much depends upon
when the premises were first let and
what the rent then was... .I.McD.:
The article “Back to Lindsayville,” by
“Newlyn,” appeared in The Bulletin
,of February 17, 1954 R.E.D.: To
obtain an eviction-order, a summons
must be taken out after a notice to
quit has been served and has expired,
and the matter must come before a
Court of Petty Sessions sitting in
open court. It is possible for an
order to be made without the evi-
dence being gone into if the tenant
goes to court when the matter is
listed and consents to the making
of the order... .A.G.: Any person
under 21 must have the consent of
at least one parent before marrying.
A.L.W.: The answer depends in
part upon whether the land is under
Torrens Title or Old System Title;
in fact, upon whether you knew that
“B” was in occupation, and, if so,
to what inquiries you made as to
“B’s” rights; and, in fact, upon
whether you have accepted rent from
“B.” You will require to see a
local solicitor and place all the facts
before him to obtain advice. .
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.C.: Why make your charac-
ters speak like dictionaries?
J.P.C.: Well, for the sake of “Ben
Nevis bank; on, how closed, branch-
line between Ben Nevis and Navarre;
North-west Victoria”; we’ll have
your
LINE CLOSED
Two rusting; ribbons? lush grass en-
shrouds,
On Ben Nevis bank, where quiet cattle
graze.
’Tween sleepers, busy “frilly” hunts her
prey
And chirring bees inspect a shooting
heath’s red blaze.
A broken signal concedes a passing age,
Of steam and rolling wheels on metal
track,
But claims a page in history; ere men
forget
A branch-line helped open a great out-
back.
F.H.C.: Tiddleypom metre and
sentimental fancies M. 8.: “The
Old Brook Road” doesn’t- quite get
there HJ.B.: Would sooner have
your Cobb and Co. memories in
prose N.G.H.: You’ve a long
way to go W.M.F.: Right, we’ll
put you in “Answers” if we
can’t do better J.L.D.: You are
hardly equal to Keats on “Autumn.”
. ...H.8.: “The* N.S.W. Current”
might stand .a chance in another
style; good stuff in it, but all too
Kiplingesque V.F.: You have
poetry in you, but it needs form,
discipline, compactness V.M.E.:
We wonder why you wonder why:
I’ve poems galore
In my head —a store.
But the ruddy Bulletin
Won’t let me in.
I wonder why?
J.K.S.: That “frail ghost” was
“in fiery agony entombed”
F.C.8.: A bit too pompous for us.
J.A.G.: The “Officer of the
Watch” was logged 8.R.: A
callow effort D.N.: Well, at least
its pathway to the basket was strewn
with roses M.D.: Not in the
market for translations... .P.C.:
Can’t allow you to “shriek or sigh
or sob, or rasp an imprecation vile”
in our columns L.S.: There may
be moonlight in your cup of tea, but
there is little originality in your
rhymes.


Commemorates Flynn of the Inland
Memorial at the Alice
By JILL KENT
JOHN FLYNN, riding his
camel on the first Austra-
lian Inland Mission patrols
over the sandhills and
desert of the great outback of
the Australian Centre in May,
1913, dreamed of three ways to
help the Inlander.
Having very limited funds
available, and thinking of practi-
cal Christianity, Flynn’s first
dream was to take up blocks
of land throughout the Centre
for A.I.M. hostels and hospitals,
As Flynn travelled over the
vast interior he acquired several
Mr. Menzies sets the foundation-stone.
blocks of land for the A.I.M. —
blocks with an adequate water-
supply which would be suitable
centres for a radius of 200 or
300. miles. The Padre himself
helped build many of the
hospitals and hostels and even
carted 80 tons of timber from
the surrounding bush for the
Alice Springs hostel in 1925.
A triple-certificated nursing-
Sister, chosen for her personal-
ity, ability and initiative, was
appointed in charge of each
hospital—a Sister who could set
the broken arm of a young
stockman, care for a piccaninny
with pneumonia, extract a
broken tooth from an old bush-
man, tackle breadbaking in a
wood-stove, or face a 200-mile
ride in an old truck to deliver a
baby.
Flynn’s second dream
to break down the loneliness
of the outback required
wireless-bases at various centres,
a wireless - transceiver in each
homestead, a Flying Doctor and
an ambulance-plane. Calls could
be sent through the transmitter
to the base, and the doctor would
advise over the ajr. If necessary,
the plane would be available for
him to fly at once to the patient.
After many years of trial,
Beautiful red sandstone, quarried from the Macdonnell
Ranges, for the east and west walls. All the work is by
hand. [This photo is by Trish Studio, Alice Springs: the
three others are by Mona Byrnes, also of “the Alice.”]
error and disappointment,
success dawned when, with the
help and advice of Alf Traegar,
of Adelaide, John Flynn himself
made the first contact by pedal-
wireless in 1926, from the
lighting - plant - room on the
hostel-block in Alice Springs to
the Hermannsberg Mission
native settlement 83 miles away,
The first wireless-base was
established in Cloncurry (QO in
1928, and the A.I.M. gave many
pedal - wireless - sets to the
pioneers,
Flynn struggled for many
years to arouse public interest
in a Flying Doctor Service and
gradually convinced selected
people of the project’s prac-
ticability, although planes for
civilians were then almost
unheard of.
Flynn maintained that
ambulance-planes were essential
for the outback, to spread a
mantle of safety over the
hundreds of miles where a
stockman falling from a horse
might die before help could be
brought, perhaps leaving a
young wife a widow, or children
fatherless.
Lt. Clifford Peel, A.F.C., a
pilot of the First World War,
encouraged and advised Flynn ;
for the great humanitarian work
the A.I.M. managed to raise
some funds, and the Flying
Doctor Service commenced.
Dr. K. St. Vincent Welch, the
first Flying Doctor, took up his
appointment on Ma.y 5, 1928,
in Cloncurry and made his first
medical flight, to Julia Creek, 12
days later.
Flynn’s third drean§ was to
build a non-denominational
church. He planned to build his
Church for Everyman beside the
Alice Springs hostel. After his
sudden death on May 5, 1951,
the board of the A.I.M. decided
that the greatest tribute it could
pay to Flynn of the Inland
would be to carry on his work
and to build the church as a
memorial shrine to him, to be
symbolic of his life.
Two main ideas which Flynn
had planned to use in building
the church would be included
in the architecture and crafts-
manship: the church would be
filled with light and built of
natural stone, so that the con-
gregation would feel they were
out of doors.
“To design a church which
would be original, beautiful and
a memorial to Flynn,” was the
request the A.I.M. board
made to architect A. A. Philpot,
of - Adelaide. The church which
he designed has now been under
construction for about a year.
It will take a place among the
great churches of the world.
Called the John Flynn
Memorial Church and sited on
the A.I.M. block in Todd-street,
the main street of Alice Springs,
the building includes a nave
58ft. by 28ft., with a circular
Remembrance Shrine imposed
upon it.
The church, facing east, will
have its entrance on the north
side —open to the people of the
Northern Territory and the
Islands. A surround of lawns
and kurrajong - trees will be
established.
To enter the circle of the
Remembrance Shrine one
crosses a bridge over a semi-
circular pool of water —a symbol
in this: water is the life of the
Territory. In this pool there
will be waterlilies and fish.
The wide-open door leads into
the porch, the roof of which is
shaped to resemble the leading-
edge of the Flying Doctor Rlane.
The lower quarter of the side-
walls are green opaque glass, to
give the impression of being out
of doors.
Above this, clear plate-glass
windows let in the light and
allow the worshipper to see the
trees and the blue sky. The top
half of the walls are pink
marble.
Local materials are being used
where possible (“local” in the
Territory embraces the surround-
ing country for a couple of
hundred miles). Alice Springs
men, some the children or
grandchildren of the first
pioneers, have helped in the
quarrying of pink and white
marble 56 miles north of Alice
in the Strangeway Ranges. The
marble slabs, brought by road-
trains, have been taken through
the town to a crushing-plant in
Heavitree Gap, two miles south.
Thence the marble chips have
been taken to the church, where
two Italian craftsmen have faced
13,000 bricks with them —
making 1000 pink bricks and
12,000 white.
When the walls are finished
they will be washed with
sulphuric-acid to polish the
marble and remove all traces of
mortar and lime.
Pink-and-white-mosaic bricks
will form the floor of the nave.
There will be seating-accommo-
dation for 160, with seats made
of Northern Territory bullock-
hide.
Miles and miles of outback
sandhills are reproduced in the
form of two large shields 30ft.
high of red sandstone rocks
from the Macdonnell Ranges.
These shields form the east and
west walls. A stonemason from
N.S.W. has been carefully
chipping round the large stones
and fitting them together.
The red shield across the east
Flynn's successor, Superintendent of the Australian
Inland Mission Rev. Fred McKay, examines one
of the front buttresses. The blocks are faced with
white marble quarried from the local hills.
end of the church seems to push
the white-marble altar and
communion-table out into the
congregation, bringing the most
sacred part of the church to the
people to share. Set into the
shield is a large cross composed
of many St. Andrew’s crosses,
each small cross made of
ceramic which will let in the
light. On the left of the shield
will be the pulpit and on the
right the lectern.
Electric-lights concealed in
niches in the two front pillars
will illuminate the east end.
From the south side of the
nave one enters the far side of
the circle of the Remembrance
Shrine. Here is a low, semi-
circular red - sandstone wall.
About 100 memorial-plaques
will be built into it. One will
be for the first padre of the
outback’ Padre Bruce Plowman,
who, on June 2, 1914, conducted
Vestry roof, its wing-shape symbolic of the Flying
Doctor plane.
the first regular service held in
Alice Springs on a veranda of
one of the few houses in the
town. Another will be for the
first nursing-Sister at Oodnadatta
Hospital, the first hospital to
serve the Territory.
Plaques will be inscribed for
those concerned with the con-
struction of transceivers, and
many tablets will be reserved for
the early pioneers of the land
and mines, for early explorers
and settlers of the Centre who
rode over, the gibber-plains and
through the endless mulga- and
gidgee-scrub on camels men
like McDouall Stuart, Charles
Todd and a score of others.
Situated at the east end, in
front of the lower part of the
sandstone shield, lies the vestry.
Here Flynn’s idea of building
underground for coolness is
observed. Shaped to resemble
the wings of a plane, the vestry
roof symbolises the Flying
Doctor plane leaving the A.I.M.
church and flying to help the
people of the inland.
The west end of the'church
behind the sandstone wall
shelters a small museum.
Flynn’s swag-sheet will be found
here, his quart-pot, the first
telegram sent over the Flying
Doctor network (on June 21,
1929) and other relics.
For outdoor services, a pulpit
will stand in the grounds.
Thus, soon will be realised
Flynn’s dream of an outback
church. The estimated cost of
the church-shell is £31,000, with
an additional £4OOO for the
inside furnishings, organ, pulpit,
font, and the outside work.
About £20,000 has been
collected by the A.I.M. in cities
and towns, with donations from
visitors and friends and fol-
lowers of Flynn’s work the
world over, and contributions by
the outback people themselves.
Many pastoralists have donated
“a bullock” and at their next
cattle-trucking arranged that
the price be paid into the fund.
The Prime Minister, Mr.
Menzies, set the foundation-
stone on June 26, 1954, and the
Rev. J. Gray Robertson dedi-
cated the church. The founda-
tion-stone was a solid block of
cream marble quarried in the
Strangeway Ranges.
Last week the Rev. A. W>.
Grant, of Bankstown (N.S.W.),
was appointed as the church’s
first minister.


T
T
T
N>
T
©
0
<mi
is
T
T
D O
510
/s£M
»
□
U
33
—<S
SERVICER
2
5755 s
HIM I 11 ITT" . |
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
ate
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, diverticulitis
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe, f or -,o
conditions. Postal note for 1-/6 wid
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
I Maloney St., Mascot.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Five of the six topweights in
the Melbourne Cup have the
familiar N.Z. after their names.
The V.R.C. handicapper has
allotted top two-year-olds, King-
ster and Knave, each 7.6, which
is weight-for-age for a three-year-
old in November. No three-year-
old has won since Skipton in
1941. He carried 7.7. Only other
three-year-old winners in the past
30 years were Hall Mark, Peter
Pan, and Trivalve. In earlier
years nineteen other three-year-
olds beat the older horses.
New Zealand’s crack three-
year old, Somerset Fair, hasn’t
been thrown into the Caulfield
Cup with 9.5. The only two
ahead of him in the weights are
unlikely starters, Prince Cortauld
and Rising Fast. All three are
New Zealand-bred or -owned as
is the fourth horse in the handi-
caps, Gendarme. Somerset Fair
will be a four-year-old next
Monday. His 9.5 in the Cup is
51b. above weight-for-age and he
faces a tough task. Manfred, a
great galloper of the mid-
’twenties, won with 9.6 as a four-
year-old. The only other -four-
year-old to win the Caulfield
Cup with more than w.f.a. was
Poseidon (9.3) in 1907.
Melbourne is to have its first
doubles’ tote at the Moonee
Valley Cup meeting on October
22, when upwards of 40 selling-
windows will be open. There
are 29 doubles’ bookmakers now
operating at the Valley and they
will join the straight-out ring,
which happened when the
doubles’ tote was introduced in
Sydney, one of the best moves
in years. Doubles’ bookmakers
offered niggardly prices. The
tpte quickly showed them up.
By The Way had easily
won the Grand National Hurdle,
but El Tirador was confidently
backed to beat him at Caulfield,
and he did so to the tune of 15
lengths. Maybe By The Way
will prove the form wrong when
he competes in the Australian
Hurdle at Caulfield on August
6. “Horses can’t talk, you
know,” was the answer given by
one of the owners of the G.N.H.
winner when asked to throw
some light on the defeat.
Segenhoe (Scone) studmaster
Lionel Israel refused 1500gns.
for his yearling by Nilo (imp.)
from Dress Circle at Randwick
sales last year. The youngster,
now a gelding and racing as
Oxford Blue, impressively won
Canterbury Second Maiden
Two-year-old on Saturday. He
is a brother to First Row and
Paracombe, and is related to
Vatellor, a top-class winner in
France and sire of two English.
Derby winners, Pearl Diver and
My Love.
Landy seems an appropriate
title for a fast two-year-old
son of Midstream (imp.) and
Prestige; he won the Canter-
bury First Maiden stylishly.
Landy, who cost 2000gns. as a
yearling, comes from the
family which produced
Avenger (A.J.C. Derby), Boaster
(Epsom dead-heat and Chelms-
ford Stakes), Swan River (Tatt.’s
Cup and Q.T.C. Moreton
Handicap). Prestige is a daughter
of Double Remove (imp.) and
Gossiper by Legionnaire (imp.).
A. Ward, winner of this year’s
Sydney jockey premiership, has
won two of the last four S.T.C.
Cups—Sir Pilot last season and
Yeoval in 1952—and he might
add another this Saturday on
New Zealander Hutton. In
Saturday’s Rosehill Handicap
Hutton finished fifth with 8.12.
He drops a couple of pounds
this Saturday, but there is an
extra quarter-furlong to travel.
• • • • 0
The smart two - year - old
Aboukir, who won nicely at
Rosehill on Saturday over 6fur.,
is closely related to the noted
Shannon, whose best wins were
from a mile to 1} mile. Shannon
in America equalled the world’s-
record times for both nine and
10 furlongs. Aboukir could make
it tough for Kingster and Knave
in the Warwick Farm Hobart-
ville Stakes to be run next month.
E. Doon won on Tatyoon .at
Rosehill, but his broad grin on
returning to weigh-in disap-
peared when the win was greeted
with hoots. As it was Doon’s first
ride on Tatyoon he was entitled
to feel puzzled over the outburst.
Tatyoon had started favorite a
week earlier with A. Ward in
the saddle, but missed a place.
Switching his i;ides from Magic
Carpet II to Regal Glitter for
the Rosehill Welter Handicap, N.
Sellwood rode the latter home in
runaway fashion. Regal Glitter
comes right into calculations for
the S.T.C. Cup, to be run at
the same track next Saturday and
in which he has 7.9, 61b. from
the limit. Regal Glitter hadn’t
won a race for a couple of years,
but had shown trainer Horton
winning gallops at Rosebery and
had finished third at his previous
start at Warwick Farm. The five-
year-old horse hasn’t been easy
to train.
“P.0.M.C.”: A Sydney vet.
claims to be able to classify
thoroughbreds as good, bad or
indifferent racing prospects
simply by testing for cardiac
abnormalities. Does this mean
punters will soon have stetho-
scopes dangling around their
necks as well as fieldglasses?
• • • •
Because a horse fails in soft
going at one track it doesn’t
follow he will do likewise at
another. The Aquarua stable
wasn’t too keen on the gelding’s
chance in the Second Two-year-
old Handicap at Rosehill when it
was seen the track was on the
soft side, because Aquarua had
twice failed in heavy going at
Randwick. Some big punters
who had noted the Randwick
runs let him run against them,
but thousands of smaller backers
picked Aquarua as one of the
best bets of the day. They were
right, but had jockey J. Thomp-
son to thank for clever riding to
gain victory.
« s • •
Winners at Doomben included
Borambo in the Second Two-
year-old Handicap. He’s a
promising gelding by Tsaoko
(Fr.) from Niwari by Nizami
(Fr.) and was among the moder-
ately priced yearlings sold at
Randwick last year, bringing
300gns. Borambo is a second
foal and is related to Colonus,
a winner the Melbourne Cup.
Other stayers figure in his pedi-
gree. Niwari traces back to
Comedy King (imp.).
* * *
With father under suspension,
young R. Martin has driven
Skystreamer at his last two trot-
ting starts —for two wins. A
speedy old pacer for the first mile
or so, Skystreamer’s winning
days looked to be over. As
well, young Martin hasn’t had
much experience in race-driving.
But at Richmond on Saturday
Martin drove like an old-stager
and Skystreamer responded to
beat a good field of 26-class
horses. By Sky Raider out of
Althena, the aged mare is well-
bred.
+ +
“Finnigan”: The Frenchmen
won the third Rugby League
Test at S.C.G. in a game more
lopsided than the scores—B-5
indicate. Their forwards out-
stayed the locals in the tight
stuff, and their backs handled
beautifully in the mud. They
were fast and looked dangerous
every time they got the ball.
Apart from a forward rush in
the first 10 minutes, from which
Davies scored his try, and a bit
of a scamper just before the final
bell, the Australian movements
had the glum inevitability of a
mar-i butting his head against a
wall.
* * *
Austrian Rapids won the third
Soccer Test against Australia
5-3 in Brisbane, and thus the
series. It was Rapid’s toughest
game of the tour, which points
to the Australians having learnt
something from the visitors.
Another lesson was administered
in Sydney by South China,
which, unhampered by having
to play on a mudpatch, overran
N.S.W. 11-1.
* * #
Richmond Tigers are licking
their chops in the V.F.L. Having
barely digested Footscray Bull-
dogs they pounced on Geelong
Cats on Saturday, and when the
spitting and screeching were over
it was Tigers 14.16, Cats 14.13 —
second team of “the four”
downed by Richmond in two
successive games. Meantime the
first and fourth teams, Mel-
bourne and Footscray, staged a
ding-donger for ’Scray to get
there by a point (11.8-9.19);
’twas Melbourne’s third defeat
in a month. In the other games
Essendon massacred North by
17.23-9.12, Collingwood, Carlton
and Hawthorn all won and “the
four” comprises Melbourne,
Collingwood, Geelong, Foot-
scray, with Essendon and
Hawthorn nudging for a place.
* * *
“Kay”: A famous quartet in
Australian Rules football is the
Cordner brothers —Don (1946
Brownlow Medal winner), Denis,
Ted and John, all of whom
played for Melbourne. S.A. has
the four Williamses, all Aussie
Rulers ; two of them, Fos and
Glyn, played for S.A. against
Victoria the other day (Denis
Cordner being with Vic.). Rugby
Union has the four Phippses,
three of whom strip for Gordon
(Sydney), two, Jim and Peter,
are in the Australian R.U. team
heading for N.Z. Record
number of brothers in one team
could be the five Prentices who
played R.U. together for the
now-defunct Western Suburbs in
Sydney—their sister couldn’t
join them, so she sent her hus-
band to play.
* *. *
“Kooyong”: Tennis has the
like-named Rose and Rosewall,
Trabert and Talbert, Donald
Budge and Budge Patty. Two
opposing players in the recent
Brazil-Cuba Davis Cup tie were
Jose Aguera (Cuba) and Jose
Aguero (Brazil).


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
By Appointment
to H. M. Kino f
frederik IX
By Appointment.
to the tale
Kino George Vt.
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment!
to W. M. the
Oueen of the
Netherlands :
tilll rBCEMRt t> roH**l**l
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Denmark*
Uqueur delight
lor your alter
. dinner enjoyment
(Mf*.
-AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— SWIFT & HORNDALE PTT.
Box-factory Night-shift
Ropes and Knives!
By RONALD McCUAIG
a I"—OPES and knives!
r\ Ropes and knives!”
I \ is not a revolutionary
incitement to the
workers ; but the shift foreman
calls it out a bit defiantly.
Baling is not popular.
Especially with men who have
been working a jack-hammer all
day and have taken-on the night-
shift at the box-factory because
their friends told them how easy
it was to ear*n an extra week’s
wages. For me, an out-of-work
journalist, the one night-shift was
quite enough: there was the
incredible monotony of folding
cardboard boxes, thousands a
night; but I imagine the main
use the firm had for their casual
laborers was baling at night the
work that had been done by
the regular staff during the day.
Time passes more quickly at
baling than at most repetitive
factory jobs ; it is not very heavy
work ; and hands soon get hard-
ened to the hemp rope. But no
foreman has ever been known
to know beforehand how many
bales there are to make. He may
“think there are only seven or
eight”; he may, with subtle
frankness, “know of six on this
floor alone” ; but generally he
“hasn’t had time to look around
yet.”
I have known a foreman spend
an hour or so upstairs laying out
eight bales and stacking the
goods on them before calling the
staff up to bale. He stood around
beaming like a hard-working
housewife at a kids’ birthday-
party. “Wot,” said a callous
baler, “no jellies and hundreds-
and-thousands?” He imagined,
rightly, that such an overture
presaged a night of 50 or 60
bales.
Carrying large balls of rope,
and knives —either their own or
from the armory dangerously
jagging out of the foreman’s
hip-pocket—the balers, in teams
of two, stake their claims of the
12ft. by 20ft. of space which is
rarely to be found on stacked
factory-floors, and one goes
looking for the Jute.
The Jute is not so much a
migrant cousin of the Angles and
the Saxons as a roll of heavy
brown paper about 4ft. wide.
Stepping on the loose end, the
baler kicks the roll down the
passage-way, and paces out the
three, four or five yards he needs
of the unrolling paper. When he
has made the right number of
paces, the paper always looks too
long or too short, so he runs
his knife across it where he
thinks will be the right length,
rips it free from the roll across
the knife-cut, and trails it after
him to the baling-ground.
There his mate awaits him
with packing, which, in a box-
factory, is a pile of imperfect
strips of corrugated cardboard ;
and if they are fairly good stuff
the balers put them out of sight
of the other balers round a
corner. The strip of jute is laid
along the floor, and four pieces
of packing, each about sft. long
by 3ft. wide, are laid corner to
corner, slightly overlapping,
across it.
The balers then stack the
goods in the centre of this card-
board platform; they might be
100 flattened cardboard boxes,
any size from 2ft. to sft. square,
or corrugated cardboard strips
for lining electric-lamp boxes,
etc., for which the order of the
day might be: “Two fives twice
and spread four” —meaning that
you put down two rows of five
50-liner piles, and two more
rows on top of them, and spread
four more 50-liner piles evenly
on top of them —a total of 1200
liners.
The balers score the card-
board along the sides of the
goods with their knives, cut the
board in at opposite sides, raise
it, and fold it so that it makes
sides around the goods. Then,
holding the packing to the sides
with a pressure of feet, shins,
stomachs and arms, they reach
for a looped rope which they
tighten around the sides with a
bow.
Some call this rope a belly-
band, some a surcingle, some a
shirshingle, and one insisted on
calling it a brassiere —but he was
an ex-prisoner-of-war, and used
to making the most of things.
If the packing is tall enough,
all you have to do now is to slit
it at the corners and fold it over
the goods, but if it will not go
the distance, you have to slide
more packing into the sides.
It is here, when two balers
meet for the first time, that one
becomes the baler and the other
becomes his mate, depending on
which is bigger, or seems more
ferocious, or has had more ex-
perience, or so on. And though
they are both equal in the sight
of the employer, the baler who
gets his way on whether to put
in four corners and slit, or fill-
in the top with one piece of
board, or build up two sides and
make a double hood, is thence-
forth the baler, and the other is
his mate.
Balers and mates tend to stick
together. Likewise some balers
avoid others, because they are
too fast, too slow, or don’t know
their knots; and I once heard
a baler justify his avoidance of
another on the ground that “he
had no conversation.”
The bale now looks like a
loosely-made cardboard box,
held round the sides by a looped
rope. Some bales at this stage
are so neatly made that an art-
critic might write them down as
much too chocolate-boxy; but
of most bales this complaint
could not be made.
The balers retire to opposite
ends of the long strip of jute
on which the bale is built, and
bring first one end and then the
other tightly up over the bale,
and the baler stabs his knife
through both ends of paper
where they overlap, so as to
hold the paper firmly round the
bale. I knew one baler who in
this stab seemed to release a
great amount of venom; it was
as awe-inspiring as “the moment
of truth” in Spanish bullfighting
when the matador runs upon the
bull with drawn sword. On the
other hand such a powerful baler
as Gentleman Joe would very
gently insert his knife into the
paper as though it were a scalpel
—perhaps because he always
used a penknife, which might
have closed on his fingers if he
stabbed with it.
The foreman dashes up with
a stencil and scrubs directive
marks on the tightened paper;
and now begins the last stage of
baling—the roping, which, when
two experts are operating, can be
AA- Cross - ropes
BB - Side -ropes
CC - Final ropes
as formal and co-ordinated a set
of movements as a minuet. Don’t
tell them I said so. Or never let
them see a minuet.
When the baler takes the end
of the rope from the coil, and
gravely hands it to his. mate, he
has to bow across the bale; and
this is the first movement of a
minuet. They both stoop, each
grasps a corner of the bale by
its loose paper and raises it;
they- slide the rope underneath
the bale; they rise; the mate
hands the baler the rope’s end
over the top of the bale; the
baler ties a slipknot, winds a few
turns of the rope round six-
inches of broomhandle and, with
his foot against the rope on the
comer of the bale to prevent it
slipping, hauls hard, and when
it is taut enough, hitches the
slack several times over the loose
end of the slipknot and cuts the
rope. '
This movement is repeated at
the other end of the bale ; then,
the bale secured by two ropes
across it, the mate hauls out
the surcingle (even balers who
condone social irregularities un-
known to other kinds of minuet-
ists consider it bad form to send
the surcingle away with the bale),
and folds the paper at the sides
of the bale, pushing the sides in
first and creasing it up from the
bottom and down from the top.
Meanwhile the baler has been
measuring rope, twice along and
twice across the bale, allowing
half-a-yard for ties, cut and
double and cut again; and
they proceed with the second
movement of the minuet,
roping round the sides of
the bale, beginning at oppo-
site sides, baler at the top,
mate at the bottom, passing each
other, and finishing at opposite
sides.
In the final movement they
work together with two more
measured ropes over and round
the remaining sides of the bale,
in a triumphal procession of
clove-hitches, not unlike the last
stages of a minuet.
For a complete demonstration
of the derivation of the minuet
from the older art of baling, and
for a description of each of the
30 knots which go to make a
bale, you will have to wait for
my comprehensive survey and
textbook of the art, “The Ties
of Empire.” Here I shall content
myself merely with touching
upon a few of the problems
which must be solved if the art
is to progress.
The first is: How much
strain? Gentleman Joe often
broke hemp ropes as thick as
your little finger when hauling
on the first two ties across the
bale, and the exuberance of the
neo-primitive treatment is
regretted by us of the suaver
school, who find that it wrinkles
the paper and pulls the bale out
of shape.
Some of us, indeed, secretly
applauded the baler’s-mate who,
when another baler of the
primitive school was throwing
his whole weight upon the rope,
thoughtfully cut the rope and, at
the price of no little obloquy,
secured a more considered
approach to heavy hauling from
his baler thereafter.
Whether the two side-ropes
should be finished simply by
hitching them to the knots at
which they started, or strained
with a double purchase between
the two cross-ropes, may per-
haps be left to balers’ individual
tastes —though I think that the
second method makes for the
elegant bale; but the rope from
which the final tie is started
should be settled once and for
all, because it determines how
the bale must be turned for
knotting the ropes underneath it.
A stylist like Big Harry is im-
peccable authority for beginning
this tie from one of the top
cross-ropes ; against whom one
can cite 01’ George himself, the
mellowed heir of all that is best
in British baling, on slipping the
final tie under the top side-rope
and knotting the end to the
bottom side-rope, completing the
knot on the top side-rope with a
simple overhand tie.
This is the one place in a bale
where an overhand knot is
allowed ; I have had it shown to
me by such another touchstone
of the art as Ol’ Mac; yet I have
seen Gentleman Joe brush it
aside, when it was suggested to
him, much as if it had been a
feelthy picture, and proceed to
complete the tie as a clove-hitch.
Other things being equal, I feel
that we should conserve the
traditions which set a hall-mark
on national craftsmanship; and
it is time a movement were set
on foot to legitimise this single
distinctive overhand knot in the
British bale.
Anyhow, while we have been
talking, we have baled a bale;
and if you think it is a pretty
good bale, I advise you not to
stand off and admire it. Other-
wise, you will notice that the
paper has wrinkled under the
haul of the ropes, or is bulging
at the sides, or the top side-rope
is six-inches nearer the edge of
the bale than the bottom side-
rope, or the ropes don’t snap taut
like a whip, but sag where a
loose knot has been drawn out,
or that the last double-purchase
haul, which pulled the whole
bale tight, has drawn out of
square all the ropes which it
crossed.
I have never seen a bale yet,
which I have had a hand in, that
I could entirely approve of.
Maybe that is why, when I was
beating the brain for the syndi-
cate name of a lottery-ticket, I
finally wrote down:
“Baleful.”


V V
NSK
14
Jr
IV
Mobilgas
SPECMC
The world's greatest selling premium gasoline
with Mobil Power Compound
!'
"Obilubricotion
Mobilgos
m.rS,
Buy Mobil gas Special from
your Mobilgas Service Station
under the sign of the Flying Red Horse'
GSS3
o
VAC U U M
COMPANY
THE 'HU-BRITISH
ft
r^j>.
m
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
Prices from
25'- to W-
Gives Character
to your Writing
CORWIV STEWARTS CO. LTD. 10 H H
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A GUARANTEED WAGE
A NOTHER object coming
over the industrial horizon
with automation (described here
last week) is the guaranteed
annual wage. Only a toddler
yet, it is anybody’s guess as to
what size it will grow to and
how far it will reach.
It has been reported that
Walter Retjlher, president of the
U.S. United Automobile
Workers, was, while * passing
through the Ford company’s
works, asked how he could
collect union-dues from the
machines which had replaced
thousands of workers. What his
reply was then is not recorded;
his answer now appears to be
the successful' negotiating with
Ford and General Motors of a
guaranteed annual wage for
thei; employees, whether they
are working or not.
“This idea,” comments Lon-
don “Economist,” “is not new
in American industrial relations,
and schemes which embody it
have been operated by several
companies in different industries
for some time. It is based on
the concept that the obligation
of an employer to an established
employee does not cease when
the latter has to be laid-off
temporarily, and that it is the
duty of the management to cal-
culate its labor-costs on an
annual basis, as it does on most
other costs, rather than on a
weekly basis.”
New or not, Reuther’s agree-
ment with the automobile com-
panies caused a spate of com-
ment in the U.S., Britain and
the Continent. His original
demand to Ford proposed that
employees with two years of
seniority should be guaranteed
by the company the difference
between their State unemploy-
ment insurance - compensation
and 80 per cent, of their gross
weekly earnings for up to 52
weeks of the year. It was pro-
posed that the company finance
the scheme with a special fund
equal to 20 per cent, of its pay-
roll costs —that would have cost
Ford $l3O million over three
years.
Reuther didn’t get quite that,
but Ford agreed to a three-year
contract which included a
scheme by which the employee
would get 65 per cent, of his net
weekly wages for the first four
weeks of unemployment, and 60
per cent, for the next 22 weeks.
The company refused to be
liable for more than six months
of a year.
After the Ford agreement,
General Motors agreed to an
almost identical proposal.
The possible effects of these
agreements on American (and
other) industry are many and
varied, and comment ranges
from noncommittal caution to
the flatly hostile.
Typical British comment:
London “Economist”: “Pos-
sibly the most far-reaching effect
may be to begin reconciling an
18th-century political system
with a 20th-century economy. In
other words, businessmen, par-
ticularly small businessmen, may
decide that it is better to accept
a higher level of local taxation,
to finance adequate unemploy-
ment insurance-schemes, than to
accept direct responsibility for
the welfare of the unemployed.”
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
new agreement has this in com-
mon with our [Britain’s] situa-
tion—it shows how concerned
the trade - unions are with
security rather than with mere
earnings. The guaranteed wage,
especially if it spreads to other
industries, must work against
American labor’s famous readi-
ness to change jobs. Clearly all
this bounty depends on continu-
ing full employment and mount-
ing production. But both
management and labor seem
confident of a prosperous
future.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Although no more radical in
effect than company-financed
insurance-schemes, the new con-
tract does break new ground at
least in principle. The union has
forced Fords to acknowledge an
obligation to protect employees
from loss of work. Because the
obligation is only partial and
limited, it does not detract from
its significance. The Detroit
agreement is an important mile-
stone in the American march,
not towards a Welfare State,
imposed from above by Govern-
ment intervention, but towards
a Welfare Community volun-
tarily created by capital and
labor working peaceably to-
gether.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“This new idea of requiring the
company to maintain its unem-
ployed' workers is the American
equivalent of our [Britain’s]
union - sanctioned restrictive
practices, and, like so many local
restrictive practices, it has been
brought in to offset the effect
of new labor - saving tech-
niques. The American union
scheme was launched to com-
bat the march of “automa-
tion,” a new word covering
the automatic operation and
control of factories. This prac-
tice has spread quite far in the
American car-industry, where
—Baltimore ( U.S.A .) “Sun”
“I HOPE NOTHING SPOILS OUR PICNIC"
Ford’s new factory at Cleveland
is largely operated by electroni-
cally controlled machines.
“There is a certain rough
justice in the union contracts.
Only a very wealthy company
can afford to pay unemployed
workers, and only a very
wealthy company can afford the
new machines. It is equally
fitting that the Ford Company
should be the first to sign the
new contract. The word ‘auto-
mation’ was first coined by a
vice-president of that firm.”
* * *
Typical U. S. comment:
St. Louis “Post Despatch”:
“If G.M. and Ford can guaran-
tee much greater security for
employees, can small companies
do it? If [the unions] press
their demands for wage-guaran-
teqs throughout t the auto-
industry, how will that affect
the smaller competitors?
“Here is a problem of capital-
ism which has already caught
the attention of in Wes-
tern Europe. It is major news
in French newspapers from the
conservative ‘Le Monde’ to the
popular ‘Paris-Presse.’
“Only big capitalists and big
unions can make such agree-
ments as those at Ford and
General Motors. To European
unions and workers attracted
by Socialist or Communist
thinking, this seems to be a con-
tradiction. For the precedent-
making American guaranteed-
pay agreements have established
the one thing which European
workers have struggled for—a
degree of positive security. No
Communist regime has even
cdme close to organising com-
parably high standards for
workers.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“The subtler effects of the new
contract are even more difficult
to appraise. Stability of employ-
ment and security against loss of
it are good in themselves, but
they can only really be ensured
by profitable production. In a
growing and changing economy
mobility is also desirable; the
‘fringe benefits’ which have
tended to hold workers in a
given corporation or industry
could militate against changes in
techniques and regional develop-
ments which would be for the
good of the economy as a whole.
“Risk-taking is not confined
to capital; there had to be
workers who were willing to
leave the fancied security of, let
us say, a wagon-builder’s shop
to take a chance on the new-
fangled autos. Pension-rights,
hospitalisation, unemployment-
insurance and similar devices,
however valuable in other
respects, discourage venture-
labor.”
* * *
“U.S. News and World Re-
port”: “The principle of pay
while not working was first fixed
on a nation-wide basis by the
Federal Government in unem-
ployment-insurance. When Ford
agreed to a wage-guarantee for
its workers it accepted this prin-
ciple as an obligation of the
individual employer as well as
the Government.
“The principle of the guar-
anteed wage, as it is applied and
broadened through the years, is
expected by many in industry to
have a profound influence. At
the start it is just like a wage-
increase, so much per hour per
worker. In a booming period,
strong companies take this in
their stride.
“Trouble is foreseen as the
plan is pressed on weaker con-
cerns, as it is made more costly
through future union demands


■
I
v.:;
■
' ' *
mmm
K
vmm
£3Bafei^&kfr
■ J ?S'
.
Vl -:i:
: '
-
/’ ::: -;-r : ; • •
Wft**
**s»<'""
1
*/*« . -••- •; j ::
m
ns
■
SUPREME IN TOWN OR OUTBACK- this luxurious Humber Super Snipe is built to give you real driving
satisfaction and pride of ownership. Its dynamic 6 cylinder 4 litre O.H.V. engine only whispers at 90 M.P.H. The massive cross-braced chassis,
heavy duty shock absorbers, outstanding road holding and cornering stability—all combine to ensure safe,
comfortable, fatigue-free motoring over all road conditions. Truly the Humber Super Snipe is
Australia’s biggest big car value'.
£1595 plus Sales Tax Confidential terms. Accredited
finance company Industrial Acceptance Corporation Limited.
PRODUCED IN THE FACTORY OF ROOTES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
'fROOTBS
SfSWCt,
All Authorised Dealers
Display this Sign.
: saoi.nBiMi.sia
QUEENSLAND : John McGrath Motor* (Qld.) Pty. Ltd..
324 Wickham Street. The Valley. Brisbane. L 4871.
NEW SOUTH WALES : John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd.
255-259 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 6838.
VICTORIA: Neal'* Motors Pty. Ltd., 222 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne. FB 3481.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Commercial Motor Vehicles Ltd.,
165 Franklin Street. Adelaide. LA 2201.
WEST AUSTRALIA : Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd,
900 Hay Street. Perth. BA 9361.
TASMANIA : D. L. Hollis Motors Pty. Ltd, York and
St. John Streets. Launceston. Tel. 1676.
By appointment
Motor Car Manufacturers
iiyi
Humber Limited
to the late King George VI
HUMBER
S UPER SNIPE
and as business goes into slack
periods.”
* * *
David Lawrence, editor, “U.S.
News and World Report”: “The
principle of a direct subsidy for
work not done is clearly estab-
lished for the future.
“The implications of this
radical change are far-reaching.
Not only does it start an upward
spiral of prices, increasing the
transportation costs of the
people, but it tends to reduce the
number of competitors in
business.
“What shall we do, also, about
the plight of those companies
which are not in a class with
Ford, Chrysler and General
Motors —the smaller companies
which are having a hard time,
anyway, competing with the
larger enterprises in their field?
Shall we see the ‘big three’
swallowing up the marginal
companies?
“We are told the anti-trust
laws would be invoked to pre-
vent such a monopoly. But this
does not solve the financial prob-
lems of the .smaller companies.
How can they possibly meet the
added expenses being forced
upon big business by big union-
ism? There has always been a
tendency on the part of labor-
union leaders to aim for uni-
formity of pay-scales through-
out an industry. Today more
small businesses have been forced
into mergers with the larger com-
panies as a result of union pres-
sure for higher and higher wages
than because of any other single
economic reason.
“It seems to be old-fashioned
nowadays to argue that men
should not be paid for work
not done. It is held to be out of
step with the times to argue that
business shall remain entirely on
a private-enterprise basis. Yet
how can we expect businesses to
survive under private manage-
ment when the Socialistic trend
is so definitely spelled-out by
recent developments extortion
of large sums of money for
work not done? The penalty for
refusal is a greater loss of earn-
ings through work-stoppages
ordered by union leaders. ‘Nego-
tiation’ is just a euphemism for
modern blackmail.
“Plainly we are facing some
fundamental decisions of policy
that can change the whole nature
of our private-enterprise system.
“The guaranteed annual wage
for work not done has a logical
corollary—a guaranteed profit to
every company which fails to
make the grade, giving it money
not earned. For the recent agree-
ments in the auto-industry pro-
claim a new doctrine —somebody
now must guarantee every
worker not only a job but a
steady flow of money for ser-
vices never rendered.
“How long can that fallacy
be sustained in American private
enterprise?”
Ten Years of U.N.
Bricks and bouquets to the
United Nations Organisation on
the tenth anniversary of the
*» Charter:
„ ... TTT c a i “c, » « Tri
n Baltimore [U.S.A.Y Sun : In
!Sd in
Ko jt’njNl has bv various
gfo*
in none of these places
£ as it found final So i ut i o ns. Final
so ( udo ns may be the work of
decades> But it has moved to-
ward solutions in some spots,
and p reven t ed fighting in others,
and in one notable case troops
a U ±t
K i 0 So
crea tion under United
Nat j ons aa snices of three new
Israel^ 8 Indonesia and
Übyl” ’
' * * *
London “Economist”: “ As the
Luf^rand
U.N. Charter itself provides a
valid non-aggression pact. Since
1945 the member-nations have
been morally and specifically
bound to live together in peace.”
* * *
Roscoe Drummond in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “The United
Nations was conceived to func-
tion effectively in a substantially
united world. It was not built to
function in a world in which the
big Powers were continuously in
conflict.” v
* * *
Alistair Buchan in London
“Observer”: “The value of the
[U.N.] Assembly as ‘The town
meeting of the world’ is too
often dismissed as a platitude. It
is very doubtful if the Western
public certainly American
opinion—would have understood
as early and as unmistakably as
it did the full dangers of
Russia’s post-war ambitions had
the Assembly not existed as a
for uni from which to broadcast
them.”
* * •
“Manchester Guardian”:
“There are 10 non-members [of
U.N.] in Europe alone (not
counting Switzerland). Nothing
seems to have been done [at the
Foreign Ministers’ conference at
San Francisco] to remedy this
state of things, and the [U.S.]
State Department is said still to
oppose a general opening of the
gates. Yet it must become more
and more awkward to do with-
out Germany, Japan and Italy,
for instance. It might be worth
swallowing a few Albanians to
get them in.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“The only real success of the
ynited Nations is anti-colonial-
ism—and there nobody can deny
it. U.N.O. has stirred up ill-
feeling against colonial Powers
all over the world.
“In every dispute the colonial
Powers have been portrayed as
the enemy. Always the forces of
disruption and anarchy -have
been encouraged in their
colonies. Where good govern-
ment prevailed there is now
nothing but bad government.
India, Burma, Abadan, Suez,
the Sudan. A serial of
surrender.
“Trace the weakness back to
Indonesia —the Dutch colony
where even Britain interfered in
effectively dispossessing the
Dutch. Today stable rule under
the Dutch has been succeeded by
dreadful chaos under local
jungle-law. And so it has gone
on and on.”
"A Bit Thick"
A British view (f rom Bradford
«WnS of AmSian
im p orte d wool-products:
f toDma lcers and
Britisn topmaK
combers may well ,feel flatter«l
by^he end P'J tarifl
the recent /vu
inquiry m favor of hig
on imported
was stated that Australian manu-
facturers have not the advant-
ages enjoyed by U.K. topmakers,
because the latter have access
to wor ld mar kets and, by blend-
j ng various types, can produce
at a lower cost.
“One would have thought that,
-J anvone had the advantage, it
surelv the Australian top-
was
on his doorstep , whereas the
British processor has to get his
f thousands of miles away
(even if he is using Cape South
American or New Zealand
And tbenj to send it to
Australia in the form of tops or
worsted cloth, the exporter again
has to pay large
As for blending-in cheaper types,
that facility is not denied to Aus-
tralian topmakers, who, presum-
ably, have the same liberty to
buy in world markets as we in
this country [Britain] have.
“The Australian manufac-
advanced some mfherflig
arguments to support their dami
for heavy mcreases
protection. .They pp -
lieve that import-duties should
S t£
then• ™
should be a littie more
than the price of comparable
Australian products
That might suit the Aus-
tralian mills very nicely, but it
would certainly not benefit the
Australian public. An even
stranger proposition is that lm-
ports of British cloth are a drain
on Australia’s overseas funds.
Considering that Britain has
paid out £617 million for Aus-
tralian wool in the last six years,
that is a bit thick! ”
Various Voices
Britain’s Foreign Secretary,
Harold Macmillan: "Kationalbm
»“• ““ e d „ a a S_
S noTata toa
asa stimulant, not as a drug.
nanonaton Asm^
in f ‘. ho^se o£ c ommunism . These
° countries need patriotism
y g
t ~ t"d from ?he blandishments of
nism masquerad i ng as
„ q ,
R Houldsworth
(cludrmm of Britain’s National
Boar( j\ : must be recog-
nised that this nationalised in-
dustry has also a duty to the
general body of citizens of this
country—the consumers of coai.
It is not surprising that there are
beendone^m
[SoL ® ho work in the industry,
Imild be done for those
SSuflSEtotaSTa?’users of
coa j»
German Chancellor Adenauer:
“ If there were a choice for the
Federal Republic of Germany
between reunification on the one
hand and Nato on the other hand,
and we chose in favor of reunifi-
cation, then I must say within a
very short time Germany would
become a satellite State And
that is not what we want.
' Prime Minister
Ha toyama: “The econo-
mic situation of the Asian
countr ie S , despite their abundant
* man p OWe ’ r and natural resources,
is not fully developed for want
of capital and-technical know-
hoW”
Brazil’s permanent U.N. rep-
Cyroje FMtg
Valle. The
atomic-age may p
cannot be used a y -g
instrument or po icy. ,
have to admit that l is ,
within the framewor
United Nations ey a e
solve their differences, and tnat
atoms for peace are °
and our programme o
future.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Juvenile Delinquency
Harassed parents have been the object
of .too much misguided advice, criticism
and reproof from justices, writers and a
host of other self-appointed authorities
on juvenile delinquency, but parents are
a primary cause only insofar as they have
first chance to mould the juvenile
character.
The basic cause of j.d. is summed-up
in the opening words of the article
“Inquiry Mystery” (B. 6/7/’55): “A fea-
ture of public life in eastern Australia is
the growing indiscipline, and particularly
the disregard for the proper administra-
tion of the law.”
Delete “public” and “eastern” from
that and you have the major cause of the
political skulduggery, racketeering, gang-
sterism and general crime which have
become part of our Australian way of
life. Juvenile delinquency is only a symp-
tom —unfortunately, an important symp-
tom —of the moral degeneration that
afflicts us. Parents, as a section of the
community, have as much chance of
curing j.d. as they had of stopping the
Bankstown (N.S.W.) scandals.
For over 30 years parents have been
advised and criticised about bringing-up
their children. They were told, ad
nauseam, that they must riot inhibit or
frustrate, much less chastise, their
children. Moral suasion must be used.
Self-determination for the young was the
policy, and so forth. Some parents made
this an excuse for letting their children
run wild, but most of them did their best
with the new theories.
The result is domestic and social chaos
and a few more young delinquents appeal-
ing in court —not so many when one
considers the “pushes” of the end of last
century, but still too many. Actually,
parent-child relationship has improved
greatly in the last five decades, as have
teacher-pupil and police-youth relation-
ships. But the “freedom-for-youth”
principle has remained along with more
out-of-the-home amusements. That, with
easier means of getting, outside the home-
district, where supervision is less effective,
has given youth a greater scope for
mischief.
Add a glut of crime- and sex-publicity
—youth reads the newspaper as well as
the domic—and minimum sentences for
maximum crimes, and . . . well, naturally,
youth says, “Go on, they can’t do any-
thing to you.” So they “give it a fly,” even
to rape and murder. —T. K. 11l (Q.).
White-ants
“Howie Wing” (B. 13/7/’55) should
know that ant-capping is standard
building-practice almost everywhere. No
claims are made for creosoting as an
alternative —it is a basic additional pre-
caution, along with inspections and soil-
pretreatment and any other fancy stuff
we care to use.
“Properly-constructed tin shields ensure
permanent freedom. Ants do not build
over shields.” Don’t you believe it! I
have found galleries thicker than a man’s
arm over ant-capping.
Good capping in an infested area may
be cautiously regarded as proof for up
to six months. Then the knowing pro-
perty-owner uses it.merely as a check —
a line for sighting and attacking the ants.
—John Gilmore (N.S.W.).
The Winner Loses
If I successfully defend a civil action
brought against me I can expect the court
to order that my costs be borne by the
plaintiff, irrespective of whether the
latter is an individual, a Government de-
partment or other body. The court takes
the very reasonable view that the loser of
the case, having been proved in the wrong,
should stand the full costs of the action.
If I defend myself against a criminal
charge, however, and the court upholds
my plea of not guilty, I cannot expert any
consideration in the matter of costs,
which may be, and usually are, very
high. An instance of this principle of
the winner being also the loser —in this
case of everything he possessed, except
his life and liberty—occurred in Mel-
bourne recently when a police-constable
was tried for the alleged murder of his
jvife by shooting. His defence was that
the shooting was accidental, and he was
acquitted on both the murder-charge and
the alternative charge of manslaughter.
The trial lasted for nine days, and it
was not surprising that, according to
published statements, expenses incurred
by the defence amounted to £l2OO. Had
the principle adopted in civil actions been
followed, the court would have ordered
the Crown to bear the accused’s costs,
which, after all, would have been fair
enough, since the Crown was responsible
for the charge being laid.
As matters stand, any citizen may be
brought before a criminal court to answer
serious charges which may have, in fact,
no substance. If his life, liberty or repu-
tation is at stake, he will naturally seek
the most highly skilled service available
for his defence, the cost of which may
cripple him financially for many years.
Surely, if he is completely cleared of the
charge laid against him, he should be
also freed from incurring any monetary
penalty.
The principle that the Crown should
bear the costs of an unsuccessful action is
recognised in jurisdictions other than the
criminal courts; its extension would
appear to be both logical and just.—
D. J. G. (Vic.).
Charles Darwin
Don’t hold it against Charles Darwin
that he wasn’t impressed with Australia
and New Zealand (B. 13/7/’55). We can
forgive him, for he did a lot for mankind
in general by opening-up and enlarging
scientific thought.
Darwin’s, trip as naturalist on the
Beagle, during which he visited Austra-
lasia, was, he states in his autobiography,
“by far the most important event in my
life [as it has] determined my whole
career” ; yet whether he came or not
depended for a while on a mere whisker
—or, rather, on the shape of his nose!
Before that he had had to surmount
another hurdle. His father objected to
his going, only qualifying his refusal with
“If you can find any man of common-
sense who advises you to go I will give
my consent.” Luckily for Darwin —and
science in general—his uncle, Josiah
Wedgwood the potter, whom Darwin’s
father considered “one of the most sen-
sible men in the world,” was enthusiastic.
The nasal hold-up occurred when
Darwin reached the Beagle, and met Fitz-
Roy, the captain. Fitz-Roy was an ardent
disciple of Lavater, the 18th-century
Swiss clergyman who wrote on physiog-
nomy, and was convinced that he could
judge a man’s character by the outline of
his features. He doubted whether anyone
with Darwin’s nose could have enough
energy arid determination, and didn’t want
to take him. “But,” says Darwin
modestly, “I think he was afterwards well
“Use your influence, Dave, and see if you can tick up a gallon."
satisfied that my nose had spoken falsely.”
It was from this five-year voyage on the
Beagle that Darwin painstakingly gathered
the information on organic evolution by
natural selection that was included 20
years and more later in the world-shaking
Origin of Species (1859). Incidentally,
two terms, “the struggle for existence”
and “survival of the fittest,” usually attri-
buted hostilely to Darwin, were not
Darwin’s at all. The second was Herbert
Spencer’s, the first was Alfred Russel
Wallace’s, the man who, with far less
work and experiment, had come to the
same conclusion on evolution and natural
selection as had Darwin, and who nearly
forestalled him with his own work on
the subject. (Darwin generously intended
to withdraw, and let the younger man
have full credit; but he was persuaded
otherwise, not the least by Wallace,
equally generous, and so it was
The Origin of Species which appeared.)
Darwin’s ideas, though not really new
(his eccentric grandfather Erasmus Dar-
win, in his Zoonomia, had expounded the
laws of life on the evolutionary principle),
created a lot of antagonism, and they
were held to be disruptive. Yet there was,
in fact, nothing of the revolutionary
about Darwin: he was first and foremost
“I hope the darlings aren't getting into mischief."
an English gentleman, tolerant and
benign, well-to-do, a county magistrate,
active in all parish matters, and said to
be very sensitive where other people’s
prejudices were concerned. He came of
solid bourgeois stock, his father and
grandfather (Erasmus Darwin) being
successful family-doctors and his mother
being of the famous Wedgwood potters.
(Darwin, too, married a Wedgwood, his
cousin.) Two of Darwin’s sons became
scientifically famous, George, physicist
and mathematician, and Francis, botanist,
both knighted; and the anthropologist
Francis Galton, also knighted, was his
cousin.
One mark of Darwin the English gentle-
man was, perhaps, his fondness for dogs.
As a young man he was wont to steal
away the affections of his sisters’ pets. A
story related of Darwin concerns one of
his dogs, a surly creature actually, his
companion at the time of the Beagle
voyage: when Darwin, just returned, went
out into the yard and shouted in his old
manner, the pooch jumped out and set off
with him on his walk, showing no more
emotion or excitement than if their last
walk together had been the previous day
and not five years before. (Apropos,
Darwin made only the one overseas trip;
often in ill-health, he rarely later even
made the 20-odd miles journey to
London.)
Charles Darwin’s work was enduring
and far-reaching. In a chapter in a sym-
posium, Some Makers of the Modern
Spirit, Doris Mackinnon claims that his
work led to immense activity and fruit-
fulness in such sciences as biology, geo-
logy, physics and chemistry; that from
it new sciences sprang up, “for, properly
speaking, there were no sciences of anthro-
pology or sociology before Darwin’s
time, and since his day psychology is
becoming a science which holds untold
potentialities. With psychological science
all modern systems of education are
bound-up. The study of history took on
a new aspect. The study of languages
became a science. Finally, the conception
of evolution had a profound influence on
modern philosophy.”— Kros (S.A.).
Office Discipline
The older order of severity and rigid
discipline has been banished from our
offices (“When in Rome,” B. 6/7/’55),
and a good thing, too ! Whether through
the spread of modern ideas on handling
staff, or through the' pressure of full
employment, office-managers now realise
that all employees, no matter how sub-
ordinate, should be treated as human-
beings and not as mere pieces of office-
equipment.
Undoubtedly there are offices where too
many do too little, but that is the man-
ager’s lookout. From my experience, far
more work, and better work, is done by
office-employees where the general atmos-
phere is congenial and friendly.
With few exceptions, employees play
the game ; if they are treated fairly, do
not feel that the boss constantly suspects
them of wasting time and are encouraged
to work together in a co-operative spirit
they give good service. When the pres-
sure is on they respond loyally and take
personal interest and pride in getting the
job done in a hurry, especialy if manage-
ment sets a good example.
On the other hand, can you blame
employees for adopting the “Why-should-
I-worry?” attitude if in busy seasons the
boss drives off serenely for his mid-week
golf? It works both ways.— Wusslean
(Vic.).
Interest Rates
Probably the most unfortunate feature
of the Commonwealth restricted-credit
policy is the fact that people with ample
sound security are being driven to borrow
money at rates very much in excess of
bank-rate —up to 12 per cent., in fact, on
short-term.
I know our bankers advance well-worn
arguments but these do not alter the basic
fact that deserving citizens -are being
forced, into the moneylenders’ hands. By
deserving citizens I mean home-buyers or
those who want money to, say, connect
the sewer, or to make structural altera-
tions for an increasing family, or to begin
small enterprises.
This state of affairs is not in the best
interests of the community, and it only
needs the Labor party ,to make a feature
of it at the polls and they will take a lot
of votes from the Liberals. The Liberal
party won its post-war majority mainly on
banking and credit-management; the
same thing can easily defeat it.
If anyone disbelieves my contentions,
let him try to borrow, say, £2OOO against
a house-property valued at, say, £6OOO.
Urgent measures are required to meet
this situation. Surely among the econo-
mists, . etc., there are some • with bright
ideas and useful ones. —C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).


A
GRAIN lAUGER
you just curry it around!
■v
SM
The MOBILCO 'Junior'
GRAIN AUGER
ft's pretty bandy you know, to carry a little grain auger to
a bin . . . push one end into the grain and deliver it into
bag, bulk truck or a barrow at 150 bushels per hour.
This miniature auger, with full sized performance, can be
driven by V 2 inch electric drill, V 2 h.p. electric motor, or,
If you are a bit more energetic and money conscious than
the average, by a small crank handle.
If you're using a shovel and a lot of time and
perspiration in handling wheat, oats, rice, corn, small
saw-dust and other small grained bulk material, you're
going to be sorry if you don't look into this new
Mobilco Junior Auger right away. Once you have
tried it we guarantee you'll keep it right by your side
as the best little labour saver you've come across.
The Junior Auger weighs only 40 lbs. It is 31/2 inches in
diameter, 10 feet long, and it sells at a pocket-sized
price, £24/8/-, ready for attachment of your electric
drill or fitted with crank handle and ready for use. Send
an order now for quick delivery ,and a Junior Auger will
be on its way to you immediately.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN - PHONES: YX 1244-5
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC.
WU 1081 (9 LINES) - BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
,.. UH ,_| M ,,
SHUTTLE SERVICE
TO QUALITY
Like so many things at Yarra Falls, a shuttle
leads a most active life . . . millions of
journeys to and fro with only one purpose
. to help produce Australia’s finest
worsteds, which it does from pure
Australian virgin wool.
The Hall Mork of Quality
m
YARRA
FALLS LIM
ABBOTSFORD, N», VICTORIA
Jim Tyrrell Shifts Camp
AS I write this, veteran book-
seller Jim Tyrrell is mov-
ing from near Sydney’s
Wynyard station (the site
has been bought by a bank) to
new premises lower down
George-street, towards Circular
Quay, and only a door or two
from where The Bulletin itself
had its home for 35 years before
moving to its present head-
quarters nearly 24 years ago.
In those days Jim’s new
address —202 George-street—
was a free-and-easy Greek cafe
much patronised by naval ratings
on their nights ashore, and by
Bulletin bards and others in
need of the less-liquid varieties
of food.
In the ’nineties the area was
thickly populated with Chinese
merchants, and The Bulletin
editor could gaze out of his
window at an almost Oriental
scene between the Royal Palace
(now Brooklyn) and the Naval
Brigade (now Newcastle) hotels
on the other side of George-
street.
Louis Esson wrote a memor-
able verse about the surround-
ings, wherein he spoke of “This
crooked street of motley things,
where, day and night, with
colored smells, the aliens take
their saunterings.” But it has
changed character since then.
The new Tyrrell shop abuts on
Underwood-street, which takes
its name from James Under-
wood, who had a shipyard there
in the days when the waters of
Sydney Cove reached back as
far as Bridge-street. From
Underwood’s yard was launched
in 1804 the sloop Contest (44
tons), the first vessel laid down
in the colony in a private yard.
Now 80, Jim Tyrrell sold
newspapers and magazines on
Petersham and Summer Hill
railway-stations for Henry Lloyd
(who founded the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.) before he joined,
in 1888, Angus and Robertson,
who then had a small shop in
Market-street.
Except for a spell when he
ventured into a world of curios
and antiques, stuffed kangaroos
and native weapons, he has been
selling books ever since, to such
diverse famous personages as
David Scott Mit c h e 11, Sir
William Dixson, Sir Henry
Parkes and Billy Hughes, and
a million plain Australians.
In his book of reminiscences,
Old Books, Old Friends,.. Old
Sydney, published three years
ago, Jim recaptured the charm
of the Sydney he knew as a
boy in the days of windjammers,
cab-horses, steam-trams and
eccentric street-characters.
He is one of the last links be-
tween present-day Sydney book-
sellers and those of the previous
century George Robertson,
David Angus, Jeremiah Moore,
William Maddock, Bob Skinner,
Jacob Clarke, Bill McNamara
and the rest.
When, as lads, Jim Tyrrell and
Fred Wymark helped Angus and
Robertson to move in 1890, they
trundled the stock in a billycart
from the Market-street shop
around the corner to 89 Castle-
reagh-street. In the move just
made a pantechnicon has been
carting loads of thousands of
books at a time to the new shop,
which has three floor - levels,
a neon - sign and fluorescent-
lighting.
Somehow, Jim can’t quite
cotton on to the idea that a
second-hand bookshop stands in
need of a neon - sign and
fluorescent-lighting.
When he started in the book
game there were between 30 and
40 second-hand bookshops in
Sydney’s inner city area. Today
there is not half-a-dozen of them.
The expansion of banks, insur-
ance-offices, retail-stores and
Government departments has
pushed most of the old shops
off the main streets, and the side
streets as well.
“It is not a case of lack of
customers,” said Jim to this
writer. “There is still a large, and
steady demand for second-hand
“Jacky likes his gin neat, boss.”
books. No, it is simply that
small premises are being gobbled
up every day by big interests.
The small retailer is being
steadily pushed out. The big
rents cripple him.”
One of those who have been
pushed out of the big streets,
but have managed to get going
again in an arcade or laneway,
is Stan Nicholls, of the Book
Bargain Bazaar, now in Crane-
place, a stonethrow from Jim’s
new address. Stan welcomes Jim
to the Circular Quay area.
“Tyrrell’s will bring a crowd
of new book-hunters and book-
collectors to this end of the
town,” Stan said the other day,
“And I’ve no doubt a lot of
them will drift down Crane-
place on their way to the Quay.”
Jim moved to near Wynyard
a few years before the station
there was opened, fie is now
moving to 202 George-street a
little ahead of the opening of the
Quay railway-station, which is,
at long last, nearing completion.
The whole of the Quay area is,
according to experts, in for a
boom time.
Anyway, apart from all that,
Jim should be at home a little
nearer the waterfront. As a
nipper he lived at Balmain,
where his father’s refreshment-
shop, which included a wine-bar,
was patronised by the piratical-
looking crews of the wind-
jammers that anchored in John-
stone’s Bay. And, again, he is
now in what was once Henry
Lawson’s territory. George-street
North was a great haunt of
Henry’s.
This scribe will miss the old
shop near Wynyard, immortal-
ised in verse by Rod Quinn;
miss its dimly-lit spaciousness
and /engaging disorder; but
he has no doubt that he will
become quickly acclimatised to
the new quarters —neon-sign and
fluorescent - lighting notwith-
standing.
After all, Jim will be there,
very much to the fore; his son
Eric, and Arthur Champion, an
old Angus and Robertson <
identity and an authority on
orchids, and the other present
member of the “family,” Ross
Quito. And, of course, there
will be books at 202 George-
street to be browsed through and
bought. Stacks and stacks and
stacks of them!
I have iust sighted another
pantechnicon full of books roll-
ing down George-street.
FITZ.


INTRODUCING TO AI T
FARMERS AND BUILDERS
THE WILLIS "STANDARD" LEVEL
WOBIiD WIDE SAEES
THIS IS A MUST FOR ALL
No extras to buy—complete with
Carrying'Case, Tripod, Target,
Staff and Instructions.
dfg
Irrigation
and
Drainage
Foundations
and
Contour Work
Horizontal
Angles
£l7 FREE ON RAIL
WILLIS INDUSTRIAL
SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.,
31 Queen St., Melbourne.
7Ae Most Effective Remedy for
- *_• \
MILK FEVER
m mfPa»s cmtt/s
ICI
5AG.35X.735
sdf
HHOTEMIB
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PLACE
Ploughs,, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc^
The attachment illus-
trated is the
“FARMERS
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
<3
Write or telephone
your nearest State .
Distributor for free particulars ana
for free demonstration of t' ie
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd-.
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
William St., Melbourne. MU 8001.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
FLOODS ON THE HUNTER
■DECENT reports of N.S.W.
Government plans for
“short - term flood - control”
measures in the Hunter River
Valley raise the question of
what such terms mean. “Flood-
contrOl” is misleading, since it
implies complete control: that
is, permanent protection under
all conditions.
For a number of reasons,
physical and economic, perman-
ent and complete control is
rarely—or perhaps never —
possible. The best we can hope
for is some degree of flood-
mitigation.
No two river-systems are the
same ; each represents a separ-
ate problem. The shape and
condition of the catchment, the
size of tributaries and the points
at which they join the maim
stream, the tidal condition at
the mouth and many other
factors influence the varying
intensities of floods and compel
a separate study of each river.
The shape of the Hunter Basin
makes a study of its flood-
characteristics difficult. It pene-
trates further inland than any
other coastal basin, and it is
roughly fan-shaped. The main
stream from the north, the
Goulburn from the west, and the
Cockfighter from the south, all
meet not many miles above
Singleton. Should the flood in
each arrive at about the same
time we get a particularly high
river, which, lower down, may
be superimposed on flooding
from Wallis Creek and the
Paterson and Williams Rivers.
Floods in the lower-river may
be accentuated by high tides
and easterly gales, which usually
accompany flood-rains.
Floods on the Hunter are
usually caused by cyclonic dis-
turbances moving in from the
east. These cause the greatest
precipitation on the coastal
range, with, therefore, greatest
flow in the eastern tributaries —
the Paterson and Williams
Rivers and Wollombi Brook, or
the Cockfighter being the chief
ones. The Cockfighter normally
carries the greatest flow and,
incidentally, brings down the
greatest quantity of injurious
sand, the product of the weather-
ing of the sandstone hills.
But the February flood this
year was caused by a cyclone
which moved down from the
north-west. This caused the
greatest precipitation on the
northern and western portions of
the catchment —where the rain-
fall in places exceeded 12in.—
with comparatively fight falls
near the coast. Had the storm-
centre been over the middle of
the catchment—as could easily
have happened—the flood would
have been considerably greater.
The average rainfall over the
whole catchment of 6700 square
miles above Maitland was 10in.,
and the run-off aVeraged 4in.
This gave a total flow past
Maitland, in a period of five
days, of nearly \\ million acre-
feet (an acre-foot being the
quantity of water necessary to
cover an acre to the depth of
one foot) ; or about double the
estimated quantity of water in
Sydney Harbor!
At its peak the flood-flow
reached an intensity of 365,000
cubic-feet per second ; that is,
“All you think of is food! When re you going to fix
the roof?"
2,300,000 gallons per second.
Further upstream, at Singleton,
the peak-flow was 440,000 cubic-
feet (2,750,000 gallons) per
second.
Large as this flow is, it has
been exceeded in other coastal
rivers. In 1950 the peak-flow in
the Clarence at Grafton reached
500,000 cubic-feet per second,
and the total discharge was
three-million acre-feet. In 1949,
in the Macleay River at
Kempsey, the peak-flow was
500,000 cubic-feet per second
and the total discharge two-
million acre-feet. Probably the
highest flood-flow in New South
Wales was in the Nepean River
in 1867 ; the flow has been
assessed, from flood-marks, at
550,000 cubic-feet per second.
From these figures one can
see that problems of flood-
mitigation are not simple. An
enormous amount of water pours
down a comparatively narrow
gutter—the river-channel —ancj
spills over on to the flood-plain.
No river has been designed by
Nature to carry a flood-flow
within its banks. During a
major flood the amount carried
by the river-channel is fre-
quently insignificant compared
with the total flow.
Bearing in mind the individual
difficulties, the basic principles
of flood-mitigation are common
to all rivers. One is to delay
the run-off from the catchment
by soil - conservation works
and afforestation. Measurements
made during the recent flood-
rains indicate that about 4in.
of rain was held on some
soil-conservation experimental-
stations by the usual system of
contour-furrows and small dams.
This would, of-course, have a
marked effect on small floods.
Unfortunately, only a portion of
any catchment can be so treated ;
it is doubtful whether land-
holders can be expected to carry
out work to the extent, and cost,
of that done on experimental-
stations, and, in any case, flood-
rains usually follow a soaking
rain when the furrows and dams
would be filled.
Too much should not be ex-
pected from this form of catch-
ment-improvement. Nevertheless,
it is worth while, particularly as,
apart from flood-mitigation, it
improves any property. '
Another method is to contain
the flood, or a sufficient portion
of it, in flood-control storages.
The stored water is released as
rapidly as possible after the flood
subsides in order that the storage
will be empty to receive the next
flood.
This is the only method of
making a big reduction in flood-
flows ; but it, too, has its disad-
vantages. Suitable sites for ade-
quate storages do not exist on
all fivers. Valuable land may
be submerged—in some instances
the submerged area is greater
than the area of land the dams
protect. However, this inunda-
tion is only temporary and,
probably, infrequent, so produc-
tion is not entirely lost. In
America some flood-storage
basins are regularly cultivated,
the farmers taking the risk of
inundation.
Should two floods occur in
rapid succession the storage-
basins may not be empty to
contain the second flood. But it
is highly improbable that two
major floods should come in
rapid succession.
Another disadvantage is that,
by the discharge of flood-waters
from the storages, the river is
maintained in high condition for
a long time. This may seriously
interfere with the drainage of
land and towns along the flood-
plain.
Improving the river-channel is
another method. A river with
regular and stable banks and
free from shoals will naturally
carry more water than one with
snags and shoals and eroding
banks. It is therefore important
to remove the shoals by dredging
and to smooth out irregularities
in the banks and stabilise them
with a thick vegetative cover.
These measures will enable the
river to carry'medium flows and
freshets, but, by themselves, will
not have much effect on, major
flood-flows.
Levee-banks are cheap, but
dangerous. Protection is given
up to certain river-heights, but
the big flood will inevitably
come when the levees are over-
topped or destroyed. The failure
of the levee-banks near Maitland
caused considerable damage
during the recent flood—the
pent-up water rushing to the low-
lying areas south of the river,
Levees create a false sense of
security, delaying evacuation of
vulnerable areas until, often, it
is too late.
In some locations the use of
levee-banks may be justified. A
settlement, or valuable improve-
.j , .
certain flood-heights, provided
“d W pUr ay ßu, mai unfo°r n
tunately, people buildiAg levees
often try to protect the whole
flood-plain, and the inevitable
happens. It is an axiom that an
area can be protected with levees
only to the detriment of some
nthpr
. T ,
On many rivers Nature has
provided a wide area into which
the flood-waters may spread,
reduemg the height of the flood
and delaying the passage of
flood-waters to the lower-river,
These are known as flood-relief
storages. There a re two such
natural storages on the Hunter
River; the Louth Park aiea
south of Maitland and the
Hexham Swamp.
The first was closed-off by
high banks many years ago,
against the advice of all the
early investigators. The disas-
trous result has been seen in
flood after flood. The Hexham
Swamp remained almost in its
natural condition, although, of
late years, industry has been
encroaching on it.
Apart from other measures—
none of which- should be taken
in isolation—improvement at the
river-mouth has, some import-
ance. It is evident that if the
river-mouth i$ enlarged, or if it
has multiple outlets to the sea,
flood-waters will get away more
quickly. But the normal flow
of a river is only sufficient to
keep a small channel scoured
out, and alternative outlets silt-
up, causing high maintenance
costs ; and, in any case, these
measures would have no effect
on flooding above the estuary.
But the cost of such schemes,
on a scale sufficient to reduce
flood-flows of the order of the
one of February, 1955, to
manageable proportions, would
be enormous. On the Hunter it
might cost £5O million. Can
such an expenditure be justified?
What does a flood cost to the
economy of the Valley?
It’s difficult to assess total
flood-damage, and, so far as
writer knows, no thorough
attempt has been made to do so.
Many miles of road and dozens
of bridges were destroyed or
damaged. At least one rail-
bridge and many miles of track,
signalling-gear and the like
were washed out.,. Rail-revenue
was lost for a long period. Hun-
dreds of miles of telephone- and
electricity-lines were. lost. Water-
mains were broken. Houses,
businesses, were badly damaged
or lost. Farmers lost stock,
equipment, homes and crops.
Some land was lost because of
erosion—possibly 500 acres—
and much land was put out of
production by deposits of coarse
sand - j 1 ?™ ll lives were lost,
b . art , f° express all that in
b “* “V, 1 ”,? 6 of
total loss in the Hunter Valley m
<he February flood might be £lO
eolations, such a flood might be
expected once m a- hundred
t fT 81 ” 6 « 01 *
ml S ht be . expected every 10
W a ™” e ° r *^l anual
ear j‘, 1 ege aanaal
flood-damage, on present-day
valuations, would be of the order
D f £jx million
Q n p Ure economics, we could
afford to expend a sum requir-
payments of £li million a
y ear —that is, allowing for main-
tenance costs, works of a capital
cost of about £2O mi iii on —if
th wou]d eliminate major and
minor floods But such protec .
t j on cou j d no t be guaranteed
for an expenditure under £5O
million. It would seem, then,
that the best course would be to
adopt less-expensive measures
and suffer the floods—mitigat-
ing their effects as much as
possible.
We should move our vulner-
able towns from the flood-plain
to higher ground progressively,
We should move farm-houses
an d buildings to high land and
arrange for the quick drainage of
flood-waters from farmlands,
We should improve the river-
channel so that freshets and
nuisance-floods can pass harm-
lessly, and we should gjpw
forests on our steep highlzmds
and adopt soil-conservation
measures on our slopes.
J.P.
Yellow-box
“Breck”: Yellow-box (Euca-
lyptus melliodora ) is a tree worth
planting in suitable districts.
Though it will flourish in most
soils, poor sandy types excepted,
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(17/7/’55)
It would appear that the Single cycle is still exerting
considerable influence on the season, but the sunspot
activity is apt to upset the cyclical sequence to some extent.
This, however, is unpredictable.
In N.S.W. during August moderate rains are likely on
the tablelands, central-west and south-west slopes, but poor
rain on the coastline from Sydney northwards and the
balance of the State.
The northern half of Victoria, rain also below normal;
Gippsland should have most, with a likelihood of flooding
in portion of East Gippsland.
Serviceable rains are indicated in South Australia, and
good rains in a large part of Western Australia.
LENNOX WALKER.


F,
k
A
vs>
ms
:■ '
'• X
SBSBS
p§
<• '•
H
Nuffield Universal Tractor, equipped with hydraulically operated
front-end loader and 6-ft. dozer blade, shown clearing farm land.
The tractor illustrated is the Nuffield M 4 (kerosene-powered)
with 13.50 x 24 rear tyres fitted to heavy-duty cast wheel centres
(making wheel weights unnecessary).
This model tractor, costing only £1,015/18/- (Capital City), in-
cludes the following standard equipment: Hydraulic lift, 3-point
linkage, p.t.o. belt pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter and horn, headlight,
agricultural rear light, tail and side lights, heat gauge, hour meter,
foot plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters. (Alternate magneto
ignition can be supplied at slightly extra cost.)
Other tyre sizes available: 11 x 36R, 6.00 x 19F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x
16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x 18F; 11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies accordingly in price.)
Ask your Authorised Nuffield Dealer for full particulars of all
models and matched implements.
Tractor & Implement Division, Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range and
“Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
Place X in this square if for school project.
0.4
NUFFIELD (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR
CORPORATION (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
tfnw
BMC
NT.33.3J
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Dealers Everywhere
X
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
gs
SIROMARK
(REGD. TRADE MARK OF C.5.1.R.0.)
SHEEP BRANDING FLOW
in three brilliant colours
RED, GREEN and BLUE (L.B.E. BLACK also available)
CAN BE VSBB ON WET
SHEEP OR WRING RAIN
ORDER NOW
FROM YOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
Marketed in Australia by
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
rZmi
SIR. IX. 1983
it is generally accepted as in-
dication of the good heavy
alluvials. It doesn’t grow on the
black-soil plains. Very fine
specimens are seen in the cooler
districts, where the rainfall is
over 20in.
Given moderately good con-
ditions, the yellow-box makes
rapid growth, stands a fair
amount of cold, and survives
most droughts. It’s a handsome
tree; leaves are green-to-ashy,
in color and have a drooping
habit. Wide-spreading branches
make it an excellent shade-
tree for the stock-paddock. It re-
sponds well to lopping and, as it
is not subject to pests, outlives
many another species.
Nutrient-content of the leaves
is low, but they have saved stock
in drought. Timber makes
durable fencing and is useful
for farm-buildings.
In warm climates the tree may
blossom in winter, but in the
high bee-farming country main
flowerings come in summer,
when the bees can make best
use of the heavy honey-flows.
Flavor of yellow-box honey is
rich and appetising, the color is
light and the texture dense.
Housewives appreciate its tardi-
ness in granulating.
Phenomenal flows of yellow-
box honey in 1948 and 1949
helped to make those the biggest
honey-seasons yet recorded in
N.S.W.
A few years back, overseas
price of yellow-box honey being
higher than the home-price, a lot
was exported. Nowadays the
home-price is the higher, and
quantities of it are used locally
for blending.
The yellow-box is given full
protection in Victoria, but in
N.S.W. the protection is limited.
The Forestry Department pro-
tects it to some degree on areas
under its control, including State-
forests and lands on which bee-
sites are leased to apiarists. But
farmers and graziers are re-
stricted only in so far as they
cannot fell it within a chain of
any watercourse serving a catch-
ment-area.
Algerian Oafs
“Hortus”: The crop grown by
junior farmer Keech (Mudgee
district, N.S.W.) in the 1954
oats-growing championship was
the heaviest crop of oats district
agronomist Filan had ever seen.
Two acres, out of the six
planted, were judged, yielding
121 bushels to the acre and
returning (net) for the six acres
£236 Bs. Bd. The competitor’s
methods and technique were
sound; the outstanding result,
however, was largely due to
deep, rich, blackish alluvial soil
of a good lucerne-flat.
The Algerian variety is more
widely grown than any other,
being useful for green-feed, hay,
silage and grain. It should be
sown (in N.S.W.) between last
week in March and last week in
April for hay and grain.
Don’t sow earlier, except for
green-fodder, otherwise the crpp
is inclined to “lodge” under
favorable weather conditions.
It’s fairly drought-resistant; a
good stooler, with rather fine
stems and purplish straw;
responds much more to heavier
manuring than does wheat.
What’s more, it may be grown
successfully in soil entirely un-
suited to wheat. Crop will do
well in practically any type of
soil, if the soil is worked into
a good tilth and rainfall is not
too low. With poorer soil, of
course, more fertiliser is required.
Maize Yield
“Benroy”: N.S.W. South
Coast competition was very close,
honors going to R. J. Lavis, of
Bodalla, with a crop of Emblem
(160), 141 points ; P. T. Goward,
of Kiah, came next with Sterling
(157), 140|- points; and C. de
Kantzow, of Pitt Town, with
Victory (147), 138 points.
The winner’s crop (last year
165 bushels) was grown on allu-
vial loam ; one acre followed a
paspalum-white-clover pasture
of about 20 years and the other
had maize and beans last year,
following a green-manure crop
of oats.
Comparison of the hybrids
is interesting: in southern
N.S.W., all three winners were
Emblem; in the Hawkesbury,
of eight entries, seven were Vic-
tory and one, the lowest, was
Emblem. .In the South Coast,
winning order was Emblem,
Sterling, Victory and D. 5.99.
Emblem (NEH7), supplied by
the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, in a trial at Denmark
(W.A.), gave the top yield *of 70
bushels p.a. in a very dry year.
Emblem, however, was out-
the Red Range property of E.
Hollis, by NEH 24, NEH 529,
NEH 457 and DS 150. The out-
standing variety, NEH 24, is
midway between Dawn and
Emblem in maturity and has
considerable resistance to blight
and rust. Cobs are well covered
and plants stand well until
harvest.
In the 1953-54 season (Gov-
ernment Statistician’s figures)
hybrids gave a 43 per cent.'
higher yield (33 per cent., 1952-
53) than open pollinated varie-
ties. Approximately 55 per cent,
of acreage sown was with
hybrids, compared with 47 per
cent, the previous season. Ears
of hybrid are not necessarily
bigger than the biggest open pol-
linated ears, but they are all big.
A Potato-digger
“J.K.D.”: A Kingaroy (Q.)
potato-grower plans to cut
farm - labor costs with a
harvesting-machine of his own
design. He claims it can dig,
clean and bag 20Q bags of
potatoes a day.
Powered by the tractor which
tows it, the harvester is oper-
ated by a crew of four, although
the number can be increased to
six if necessary. The crew’s main
task is grading the potatoes.
The machine took two years
to design and nine weeks to
build. It is currently Under-
going field-trials at a Mt. Sylvia
property, near Gatton (Q.), and
was recently demonstrated to
farm-machinery experts of
Queensland Agricultural Depart-
ment. Its designer claims that
it reduces harvesting-time by
about two-thirds.
Farm Hints
“H.”: For successful oversow-
ing, seed must come into contact
with the ground. On sod-bound
pastures, severe harrowing or
light disking may be necessary,
Or grazing the pasture down,
following with light brush-
harrows, may do the job. When
the soil-surface is moist, try
tramping-in the seed with a mob
of sheep,
“Boneo”. Between eveninc
and mnrnin? milking pL
b 4Q r ™ent of her food
, f “ nt nf w
dun / and „ ri „ e Thkrneans that
naddock „ fnr niSHSi *
araduallv [ ncrea ° RS a f
{L J. f d dd k y
p y p
“Sundowner”: To get a
close estimate of the amount of
feed in a stack—useful in work-
ing-out future hand-feeding
reserves — weigh a few bales,
The average weight • per bale
multiplied by the number of
bales then gives the total weight.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
be.” Thinking of Mrs. Trimmer-
ton’s reaction, she gained con-
fidence. “After all, the chil-
dren didn’t do anything wrong.
And how is it going to get all
over the town, anyway?”
Amy wiped her glasses again,
and then settled them firmly in
position. “Well, for one thing,
Jane will tell at least a dozen
people. I’ll certainly tell a few.
I’d burst if I tried to keep quiet,
and what would be the use if I
did? The Trimmerton kids’ll
be on to it, you can bet your
socks. At least one of them
would be slinking, around, I’ll
bet.”
“I can’t see . . .” began the
mother, tearfully. Amy leaned
forward and patted the limp
hands that lay so small and frail
on the arms of the leather chair.
“Never mind, Mrs. V.,” she said
soothingly. “The good Lord
always defends the innocent, and
heaven knows who’s the more
innocent; you or the kids.
Come on, now. Where’s me
cuppa tea? Let’s have it in
peace while his lordship’s got
the kids.”
TT was not till Monday morning
A that the repercussions started.
At precisely nine-o’clock Marian
and Jane marched into the post-
office and reverently laid on the
counter the precious packet.
Very gravely the postmaster
regarded it. He picked it up
and laid it deiicately on the
scales. Then he said gravely,
“If it does the job it’s worth its
weight *in gold, but to us it’s
worth —only sixpence.”
When the transaction was
completed, he said politely,
“Good-bye, little ladies.”
“Good - morning,” they
breathed, and in an aura of
gentility were wafted into the
sunlight, where all respectability
was challenged by an uncouth
chorus of, “Ya-ya-ya, here come
the Bielsdown water-babies.”
Four tousled heads and grimy
faces leered at the girls through
the post-office railings. “Wait
till Pa comes ’ome,” promised
Roxy. “Hi’m gointer tell ’im
’ow youse come sneakin’ around
to pinch hour water. Thought
we didn’t see youse, didn’t
youse? Ya-ya, water-babies! ”
“ ’E’ll give yer old man one
hin the heye,” cried Kerry, “fer
putting tales around habout
hus.”
With what dignity she could
muster, Marian said clearly,
“Your mother gave us the
water. We did not steal it.”
“Ho, ho,” chorused the
Trimmertons, throwing their
arms and legs in all directions
so that they looked like a spider
with four heads. “Think youses
a’ gointer make heveryone larf
at hus. Wait till hour hold man
comes ’ome!”
The next week went by very
slowly for all the Venableses
except Jane and Jimmy. Jane
thought it was all a great lark,
and Jimmy lived in his own little
world like a tadpole secreted in
a guarded bottle.
Pen was humiliated. She
nursed a grievance against
Marian, and twenty times a day
would sidle up to her and hiss:
“It’s all your fault, see. I told
you you were mad.”
Marian did not heed her.
She was concerned only with
this dreadful threat of exter-
mination which was directed
against her father. She scarcely
heard the cries of “Ya-ya,
Bielsdown water-babies,” which
had developed into a war-
whoop so fascinating that nearly
every boy succumbed to its lure.
The only remarks which pene-
trated her misery were scraps of
adult conversation, such as:
“The best fight I ever saw was
the one Sel Hewitt knocked Ike
Tempman out cold and he
didn’t come round for four
hours. Way back in 1913 that
was, you remember. Behind
Doughy Dwight’s. There wasn’t
a place left open in the town.
Everyone was round watching
the fight.”
Or: “Well, Ray, old chap,
your best idea is to get Selwyn
Hewitt to give you a few
pointers” ; and “Alf’ll blow his
top all right. Decent bloke,
Alf, but no sense of humor.
That’s the trouble. Thin-
skinned. Except his hands.
Boy, they look as though they’re
covered with rhinoceros-hide.”
It seemed to Marian that
every time she had an opportun-
ity of listening to adult conversa-
tion it was concerned with gory
fights of the past from which
Selwyn Hewitt had emerged vic-
torious. At last she decided to
ask her mother’s advice about
enlisting Mr. Hewitt’s aid.
The mother was instantly
bereft of physical, strength and
sat down on the nearest chair.
“Now, Marian,” she said
earnestly, “you must listen to
me carefully. You must not go
and see Mr. Hewitt. For one
thing it is years since he had
a fight. He was young then.
Young men used to do these
things, but they don’t as they
get older. And even if he
wanted to he couldn’t because
he was very ill with pneumonia
and nearly died. Now do you
understand? He does not fight
now.”
Marian began to cry. “Then
what is going to happen to
Daddy?” she demanded.
“Ricardo says his father will
make mincemeat of him.”
Jane, who had come in un-
noticed, said, “And Roxy says
his father will black both
Daddy’s eyes, break his nose and
pound his kidneys to pulp.”
“There, there,” whispered the
mother, not daring to leave the
support of the chair. ' “I’m sure
nothing of the kind will happen.”
The connecting-door between
the house and the office opened,
and out came the father with
the pastepot for replenishing.
“What’s all this?” he demanded.
“What’s wrong now?”
There was no concern in his
voice, and when they looked at
him they found that he was in
a better humor than he had been
for days. Several things had
united to produce this welcome
change: firstly, a long-overdue
account for advertising had been
paid; secondly, he had written
another snorter leader; and,
thirdly, there had been such an
influx of letters-to-the-editor
following his last week’s call to
action that he had enough copy
in hand to fall back on for
weeks to come.
Encouraged by his mild
demeanor, the grieving Marian
unburdened her heart at last.
All the week’s garnering was
spilled into his astounded ears.
At last he grinned ruefully, and
with unaccustomed tenderness
closeted her small head in the
palm of his hand, squeezing it.
“Why,” he cried, “I could beat
Trimmerton with one hand tied
behind my back. Don’t you
remember how I felled seven
with one blow in the Boer
War?” *
The children sought in their
minds among the myriads of
fabulous tales they had been
told, burt could not find the
seven -at - one - blow story.
“No-o-o,” said Marian tear-
fully.
“Well, I’ll tell you some time.
Now you can come in and stack
papers for the mail.” He thrust
the pastepot at the mother.
“Not too thick this time,” he
ordered. “And I’m waiting .”
As he turned back towards the
door, he cried: “Why, brains’ll
beat brawn any day. Yes.
Brawn hasn’t Buckley’s chance
against brains.”
npHE next week started-off
very quietly, and probably
the peace would not have been
disturbed if Jane had not felt
impelled to inform Roxy
Trimmerton that her father had
said, “Brains can beat brawn any
day.”
For good measure she had
added pertly, “'Seel And my
father’s got the brains.”
Pen, turning slightly green,
had witnessed the degrading
scene, which had culminated in
a resurgence of the nauseating
chant: “Ya-ya, Bielsdown
water-babies.” She recounted
the entire episode at the tea-
table.
Fortunately the father had
been told only that afternoon
that Trimmerton was making
slow progress somewhere
beyond Milparinka, whieh, as
everyone knew, was miles • out
in the backblocks. So with the
bravado of a person facing' a
hypothetical invasion from
Mars, he cried out, “Yes, quite
right. When I’m finished with
him he’ll be brawn-jelly.”
The mother said crisply,
“You are bringing a lot of
trouble On your head.”
“Oh, that reminds me,” was
the imperturbable reply, “here’s
a letter from Min. You better
see if the bottle arrived safely.”
He handed over the letter. All
the children sat and watched the
mother as she opened it. They
saw her eyes skimming over the
lines. •
“Well?” demanded the father.
“Oh, has she got the baby
yet?” cried Jane.
“Well —no,” said the mother.
“I’m afraid all that it’s given
her so far is gastric trouble.”
There was a glimmer of a smile
about her lips, which she swiftly
suppressed. “I knew no good
would come of it,” she
concluded tartly.
Marian’s lips quivered. Pen
looked disdainful. The father
said cheerfully, “Well, it’s a bit
early in the day. It might take
a month or two to have effect.”
The mother looked up, her
eyes hostile. “Really, Ray,”
she said, “I thought you’d have
learned your lesson by now.”
Rather pontifically the father
stated: “I still have every faith
in the Bielsdown water. And I
hope that when Min —er—
procures this baby she will be
grateful for our help. There are
not many people who’d be
willing to endanger life and limb
for her.”
“Oh,” whispered Marian
faintly, “you don’t think he’ll
try to kill you, do you, Daddy?”
Four pairs of eyes, clear,
lustrous, round, gazed at him
with horror.
The father had the grace to
look a little embarrassed. He
chewed a mouthful of delicate
sponge-cake as though it were
tough steak. Then he said
quietly, “Now hurry-up and
finish your tea, and I’ll tell you
all about the time your Uncle
and I took twenty men prisoner
in the Boer War.”
OEVERAL weeks went by.
The Trimmerton children
found fresh excitement, and
baited the Venableses only when
nothing else offered.
Occasionally they sidled up
to Marian or Pen and hissed:
“Think yerselves because yer
uncle’s hin Parlyment. Think
yer hown the place because yer
bald-’eaded hold - man writes
lies.”
Sometimes Roxy said in a
low, sinister growl, “Me favver’s
bin through fire, flood and
famine, and now ’e’s cornin’
’ome ter skin the ’ide orf
Daddy !”
And then at last, after more
than a month of this refined
torture and nightly dream-
terrors, the fateful day arrived.
It was a Thursday about a
quarter-to-one; the Venableses
were going home for lunch. As
they passed over the culvert just
below the school-paddock four
Trimmertons stuck-out their
dirty faces and cried in jubilant
chorus: “Betta kiss Daddy
‘good-bye.’ Betta say ‘good-
bye’ to Daddy. Pa’s ’ome.”
The three girls stared at their
tormentors, who laughed with
joy when they saw the terror
they had roused.
“ ’Urry hup hor youseill miss
hout. Pa’s hon ’is way right
now.”
The three girls fled. When
they arrived at the office Marian
darted up the steps, but Pen and
Jane did not pause in their head-
long flight to the mother. They
had barely completed the
horrible tale when from the
office trumpeted a colossal
voice:
“Who d’ you think you are,
setting the whole town laughing
at me? Who in the bloody hell
d’ you think you are!”
Right on the vibrations of this
call-to-arms came the ring of the
front-door bell. The mother,
closely attended by Pen, Jane
and Jimmy, answered the
summons. It was the telegram-
boy who presented a sealed
form. With trembling fingers
the mother took it. She was
terrified of wires, but managed
to open it.
A radiant smile spread over
her face. “Glory be!” she
cried.
“What is ’it?” cried Jane.
Pen came closer. The mother
took off her apron with fumbling
fingers and smoothed her hair
back, tucking the straying
1 strands into the bun. “I’ll be
back in a minute, darlings,” she
cried. “Do be good and wait
here.”
Valiantly she entered the
office. The tremendous voice
was now issuing a belligerent
invitation. “Come on outside
and I’ll knock the daylights outer
you.”
Everyone was too upset to
notice that Pa Trimmerton at
least knew where to place his
aitches. All they could concen-
trate on was the huge form and
the gigantic hands.
Mesmerised by those hands,
Marian let out a pitiful bleat.
“It was me,” she whimpered.
“Daddy had nothing to do with
it.”
“Be quiet, Marian, and get
out!” commanded the father.
It might have been the green
eyeshade he was wearing, but
his face looked peculiarly pallid.
“Now, look here, Trimmerton,”
he began.
“Excuse me for a moment,”
said the mother firmly.
It was apparent now that her
timorous meekness was the out-
come of a too-unselfish disposi-
tion, not of cowardice, for her
eyes were shining steadfastly.
She smiled at Mr. Trimmerton.
“A telegram has just come from
my sister,” she said. “She is the
aunt for whom the children
wanted the bottle of water.”
CHE held out the telegram-
form to Mr. Trimmerton.
“I wonder if you would be good
enough to give this to your
wife,” she said with an almost
childlike naivety in her manner.
For once an unusual dignity
defined this simplicity as an un-
shakeable belief in the goodness
of humanity. “Would you tell
her that I feel very grateful that
she was so good to my little
girl?”
Looking very bewildered, Mr.
Trimmerton unclenched one
fist and took the telegram. He
read it, and then stammered:
“The wife kept saying it wasn’t
a joke. She said she bet the
kid sent the water . . . but —well,
she puts a bit over me one way
and another, y’ know, and the
boys kept saying all the town
was laughing at me.”
He grinned sheepishly, “I’m a
bit uv a one with me fists, and
I guess they get a bit uv a kick
out uv it.”
“Confound it all,” bellowed
the father, irritable now the
danger was past. “What’s in
the wire?”
Mr. Trimmerton read out:
“Three cheers for the Bielsdown
water. Expecting happy event
sometime July. Love, Min.”
THE HEADLAND
QUEENSLAND.
The hill of grass near the green sea is
Wave-mocked, wind-raked; never has
Crashed down on the beach. But rocks
In the surf prove, when enough clocks
Have ticked, finally, the sea will come
And comb the feet of the hill. Some
Day—destiny decides it—holocaust
Will break the long grasses’ rest.
Quicker pebbles, first, skipping dpwn
Into the rising sea will drown,
Then the headland will burst open
And all the sloping, silk field shapen
Like a smooth green wave will have
Its kinship proven to surf and a wave.
JOHN BLIGHT.


NOVELS IN CONSTANT DEMAND
SARA'DANE by
BULLS OF PARRAL by
POMPEY’S HEAD by
WILD BROTHER by
SCALES OF JUSTICE by
dfg
COLLINS
REFERENCE BOOKS.
The Shorter Oxford English
Dictionary
Now in one volume, size llin. x Sin.;
completely revised and just reissued.
£7/11/3 (freight extra)
The Concise Oxford Dictionary
A reference work of convenient size;
new edition.
33/6 (post 3/5)
Bartholomew’s Citizen’s Atlas of the
World
incorporates recent changes in national
boundaries. Strongly bound. Size
14£in. x lOin.
£9/1/6 (freight extra)
Concise Oxford Atlas
Contains many new maps, and a
gazetteer of the world.
34/9 (post 1/7)
You’ll find these, and all the hooks you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
cheers in capital letters from Mr. Clune
himself,
Miss A. Douglas, the lively eldest
daughter of the Government Resi-
dent, rammed the earth with a
hardwood rammer polished for the
occasion. “In the name of her most
Gracious Majesty, Queen Victoria,”
she said, “I declare this pole well
and truly fixed.”
There are still, in the 54 pages lei r t
of the book, no fewer than 35,999 pole
to be set up (a piece of statistica
information for which one must expres
due gratitude); and, amidst continuec
entanglements of facts, deserts anc
political and financial squabbles, Mr
Clune does manage to tell us a little
at still longer last, of how som
of them were planted: how S. W
Herbert, a youth of 18 with on
of the line-building parties, hac
“a lovely pair of boils on the back o
my neck, with prickly heat as well”
how the same invaluable youth at Pine
Creek played at “bobbing” for a plum
duff suspended over a lily-pond anc
got a bottle of Jamaica rum for hi
prize; how the linesmen broached the
teamster’s cargo and had a prolonged
spree at a place which, in honor of the
event, we now know as Rum Jungle
how the wiring parties eventually me ;
in triumph; and how, according to the
certificate of the telegraph-men, on
December 20, 1871,
Mr. Thomas Young on inspecting
a portion of the Overland Telegraph
line North of the Charlotte Waters
found the remains of a White man
near an angle pole about 3 miles
East from a well-known water named
the Rocky Camp. On examination
the body was recognised to be that of
C. W. I. Kraegen He had evi-
dently laid himself down and died
from exhaustion for want of water.
It is, then, the method of construc-
tion that is chiefly at fault in this book:
the interminable delay in getting to the
drama of the actual building of the
line. Mr. Clune would probably have
done much better to have gone straight
ahead with this from the very start, in
company with Herbert or some other
diarist, working-in a reasonable selec-
tion of his other material as he went
along. However, here is certainly a
prodigious, and by no means
uninteresting, array of facts about the
overland telegraph.
As to how accurate all this infor-
mation may be, one has no doubt that
in general Mr. Clune has told the
story as it happened. But one must
note that the cutting of the Suez Canal
by De Lesseps can hardly be said to
have “profoundly altered marine con-
ceptions which had endured from the
beginning of human navigation”—
people have been slicing canals there,
on and off, ever since the time of Seti I
in 1380 B.C. And—nobody can write
accurate history when he feels obliged
to lash himself into a state of intense
national and political indignation be-
fore he begins—one really must point
out that Great Britain was never
entirely populated by “poohbahs” nor
New South Wales by scheming land-
grabbers anxious to frustrate all
attempts to populate the Northern
Territory; and that promoters of tele-
graph-companies, however much they
may be annoyed by the “powerful
friends” of South Australians, have
rarely, if ever, been seen to “gnash their
teeth in frustration.”
Microbes in the Soil
Anybody who reads Microbes anc
Us, a Pelican book by Hugh Nicol, j
he happens to be a grower and ha
certain notions about soil, will have h
complacency severely shaken.
Soil in the sense commonly usee
isn’t soil at all—in fact, soil in tha
sense does not exist, according t
Nicol, and if other ways of supportin
plants could be discovered it could b
dispensed with. The present reviewe
has always thought that when he pu
compost, manure and leaf-mould int
his soil he was feeding his plants, bu
he wasn’t. He was feeding microbes
and the microbes are already there
and they are not in the slightest bi
interested in the plants, in fact they
don’t even know of their existence
They are only interested in their own
straggle for existence.
They aren’t even interested in one
another. When one gives them thi
food, natural or artificial, intended fo
the plants, they promptly multiply by
millions—a billion of them can be
accommodated in a salt-spoon. In the
process of fighting one another they
manufacture nitrogen and die by bil
lions, and the nitrogen and the corpses
leave something in the soil which the
plants find Useful.
However, unlike fish, they can’t live
in water, except some special varieties
which have adapted themselves to
those conditions. In order to survive
they must have oxygen, and if oxygen
is denied them they remain static
When water falls into the soil in the
form of rain or rises from the subsoi:
owing to floods or the shifting of the
water-table, since they haven’t the
power to emigrate, they die. In other
words, they are constantly engaged, al]
unconsciously, in establishing a balance
between their numbers and their chang-
ing conditions. Man comes along and
upsets the balance with his fertilisers,
machinery and irrigation and the
microbes promptly multiply like blazes
until a fresh balance is established.
But while the microbes are multi-
plying in the soil man is multiplying
above it; and there’s the trouble. Man
calls the process improved fertility, or
increased production, but he is only
looking at one aspect of the situation.
To produce his fertilisers he has to
burn coal or some other natural fuel,
so if there is increase in one direction
there is depletion in another:—
No organisation [says Nicol] is
concerning itself with the food-and-
fuel problem as a whole. Mankind
being under the delusion that, if it
has not yet conquered nature, great
progress has been made that way,
man is in reality letting things take
a natural course. The effect has been
to accelerate a process. The natural
fluctuations of population have been
exaggerated for a while: that is all.
In short, the situation is completely
artificial. If man stops feeding the
microbes they automatically decline in
numbers. They have no option; but
neither has man. If the microbes stop
feeding man he must decline in num-
bers, but, unless he realises this new
concept of the soil, Nicol predicts that
he will refuse to do it and will try to
stave off the natural process by waging
wars to get the last remaining stores
of natural fuel and grabbing the
territory of his neighbors.
Reviewed Briefly
Latest Pan novels from Collins
include: Who Goes Home, by Maurice
Edelman, Time and Time Again, by
James Hilton, The Consul at Sunset,
by Gerald Hanley. Pan thrillers
include Carter Dickson’s Graveyard to
Let, lan Fleming’s Casino Royal,
Cheyney’s You’d Be Surprised, Conan
Doyle’s His Last Bow, Henry Cecil’s
No Bail for the Judge and Hammond
Innes’s The Trojan Horse. Non-fiction
additions are Philippe Diole’s The
Undersea Adventure and James Avory
Joyce’s Justice at Work —an account
of present-day legal procedure in
England.
* * * *
Apollinaire: Marcel Ademe (Heine-
mann). A sympathetic and clear-
running biography of the plump poet
and playboy who was so much in the
centre of things during the first out-
bursts of Picasso and “les Fauves” in
Paris. The reader without good French
at his disposal will be disappointed that
no attempt has been made to translate
Apollinaire’s poetiy, liberally quoted
throughout; though the stoiy of the
travel-article which he wrote in prose
and afterwards cut-up into lines and
sold as poetry may provide a significant
sidelight on it.
* * * *
Poems: Ivor Guerney (Hutchinson).
The volume has an admirable introduc-
tion by Edmund Blunden, appreciating
the poetry and relating the sad story of
Guerney’s life. He was a musical
composer of great promise (and per-
manent reputation) as well as a poet
of the company of Graves, Sassoon,
Blunden and Brooke until, near the end
of World War I, he suffered a mental
breakdown from which, except at
intervals, he never completely
recovered. He died in 1937. But the
poetry, sometimes influenced b
Housman and Hopkins, sometime
more distinctively his own, alway
earthy and vigorous, is rood enough t
stand by itself without other recom
mendation; for example, the beautifi
little winter-piece entitled “Here, I:
Forlorn”:—
When to Mediterranean the birds
thoughts turn,
Watching the lessening days
And the softer glow
Of sunset “Goodbye” shall I say
And praise their beauty, and pray winter
stern
To hurt nothing those feathers and fairy
grace.
But after a week, in a place
Of coppices
I will count the kinds of birds that do
not go
But for a Shakspeare and rare courage
Keep here, if forlorn
Despite sleeting scorn, and hitter hate
of snow.
A* * *
The Flight of the Skylark: Sylva
Norman (Reinhardt). . Supposed to
deal with “the development of Shelley’s
reputation” after his death, this book
has an interesting final chapter in which
Miss Norman holds up for examination
the extraordinary opinions of T. S.
Eliot, based on his dislike of the poet’s
personality, that “an enthusiasm for
Shelley” is “an affair of adolescence,”
and of Herbert Read with his absurd
Freudian analysis of Shelley’s alleged
“psychosis”—what nonsense they do
think-up about the poet who wrote,
under Shakspeare, the loveliest poetry
of flowers, landscape and sunlight in
the English language! But, wandering
among the confusions and clashes of
personalities in Shelley’s circle after his
death. Miss Norman tends to lose sight
of her theme; and some feeble jokes
about lines in Shelley, Shakspeare
and Coleridge which the critic imagines
to have become “dated” mar what
should be a forcible conclusion. How-
ever, the theme remains dimly per-
ceptible throughout, and it is pleasant
to read a book that, if hardly with the
sure touch of Edmund Blunden’s
biography, has some appreciation of
Shelley’s supreme qualities.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 340
Across
I—Arbitration matter to deafen an
abo.’s wife. (7, 7)
7 —Nonsense which will cause an
English soldier to fall apart?
(5-3)
9—Marsh’s Windhoek is presumably
the capital where such legislators
sit. (6)
11 — The dumb cannot include this
Dorothy. (6)
12 — Flower included in my command
of a subject. (7)
16 — Steam-yacht pinched a heartbeat.
(7)
17— Moslem Messiah. (5)
18 — Boadicea’s people freeze before
turning in. (5)
19— Fix up a Marxist about the
steamer. (7)
20— The “grippe” ruler is succeeding
by mere chance. (7)
21 — Who watched a kettle boil the
French acacia? (6)
25—Also a boy gave a warning to
other motorists. (6)
27 — The Rene men stomach speed
and weight. (8)
28— Lace-up shoes introducing a
vegetable to the French coun-
cillor and the torchbearers. (6-8)
Down
1 — State doubled between me and
the mapmaker’s island change of
form. (10)
2 My spirit is the first game of
cards. (5)
3 Drunk containing lead. (4)
4 Line hubbub. (3)
5 Why are Greek provincial rulers
like car-borne armies and incom-
plete calendars? (9)
6 Tree has changed. (3)
B—Whereby8—Whereby one measures an
enclosure’s credit. (9)
10 —Modest Ken Archer (or Kon-
stantin Abdul) advances money
the first of the month. (7)
13 — Sydney suburban station to
scold those who eat and drink
with moderation. (9)
14 — Like a snake business on salt
water. (7)
15 — I’m sent back to tea with a tree
like September 29. (10)
16 — Any snail can fill this battlefield
hollow. (9)
22 — He, coming after the little bird,
is tenth. (5)
23 — Hamlet’s birthplace canonised
trisecting radii of a circle. (3)
24 — The chamber upset an African.
(4)
26—Newt. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 339


T
ERGJ
BATTERIES
a*®?:
y-2-]
ihblyy.
m&t
w ii 2 ,-•
ifp# |; -•••• •' ■
f* ■ .; :
|ifg§gSl®
g|p•■ •• |p. j, {■ fj|
■Si
Ml
> *<, ■’
8
• ■
J &*!•
ESas
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK. TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street,
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Queensland :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE-
*NoxsaoNnvi ‘SHOinaiaisia ohh
.* VIUVIUSDJ'
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney, ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
