

/
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
“LIMITS OF SOVIET POWER”- page 28
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3961
Wednesday, January 11, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 280: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt
THE HOME OF CAMBRIDGE TREASURES: FITZWILLIAM MUSEUM
ONE of the chief attractions for many visitors to Cambridge is the famous
Fitzwilliam Museum in Trumpington-street, which is renowned for its
valuable collection of prints, drawings, paintings, music and porcelain. Here
can b'e seen the chief works of art belonging to the university as a whole and
which are displayed in galleries that are among the most beautiful in the
world for displaying works of art in an atmosphere similar to that of a
splendid private mansion.
Its collections are more varied, and in some ways richer, than those of
any museum in Britain outside London. The main departments are Pictures
and Drawings; Prints; Manuscripts; Ceramics (English, European, Turkish,
Persian and Far Eastern); Armour; Textiles; Coins and Medals; Music and
the Art Library; Medieval and Renaissance Works of Art.
The museum is housed in a superb building of imposing proportions, and
from an architectural point of view it is in the front-rank of Cambridge
buildings. It was founded in 1816 by Richard, 7th Viscount Fitzwilliam, who
bequeathed a legacy of £lOO,OOO, together with paintings, illuminated manu-
scripts, prints and books.
The architect of the original building, which was built in 1837-48, was
George Basevi. After his death the work was carried on by C. R. Cockerell,
R.A., and completed in 1875 by E. M. Barry, the architect of the Houses ot
Parliament in London. Since that time the generosity of various benefac-
tors, notably the Courtauld family, has resulted in several extensions.
Some of the priceless exhibits which can be mentioned here include a
beautifully carved jade buffalo dating, perhaps, from the Han y
(206 b.c.-a.d. 220); a Roman terracotta head of Jupiter (50 b ;Cj*a.d, 50),
shapely Syrian glass mosque-lamp dating from c. 1355, and notable painting
by Titian. Rembrandt, Rubens, Frans Hals and othei great masters.


BOOKHUNTJEE, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc, Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
KING DICK OF NEW ZEALAND
By M. H. ELLIS
Although R. M. Burdon claims that
his King Dick (Whitcombe and Tombs)
is a “biography of Richard John
Seddon,” it does not fully answer the
description. If it had been called a
“political biography” it would have
been nearer the mark. The private side
of the man is often visible in glimpses;
vivid ones, it is true, but inadequate to
so excellent a subject.
No man ever deserved a Boswell
more than Seddon, that large, uncouth,
powerful, noisy and Falstaffian Lanca-
shire immigrant who landed in Vic-
toria out of the Star of England some
time in 1863, after a 90-day voyage,
and devoted such time as he could
spare from sport, pranks and trade-
union politics to working in the rail-
way workshops in Williamstown.
He was noted in his Victorian years
for brawn rather than brain, and was
to be seen exhibiting himself in the
shop walking round with a 561 b. weight
in each hand and a 281 b. one in his
teeth.
As an athlete he distinguished him-
self by winning the Eight Hours Cup
and various other races between the
100 yards and the 440. His educa-
tional rating at 20 can be judged by his
correspondence: —
Write and let me know how you
are getting on at Daglishs give my
respects to Jim Gallon & Charley
Latham & Jack Burkill I would have
wrote to Jim this mail if I had time
... . Remember me to all enquiring
friends and dont forget to write to
your obedient Prentice Lad Dick
Seddon.
Gold had brought him to Australia
too late for the rushes in Victoria, but
he made a dash for the New Zealand
diggings in 1866 and was catapulted
into the rude and roaring Waimea field
when the district was at the peak of
its production. He worked a few
claims with various mates, but was
rather more interested in the construc-
tion of water-races, acquired a bush-
lawyer’s knowledge of goldmining
law, after a false start set up in a
butchery and store at Big Dam, about
two miles south of Goldsborough,
returned to Melbourne to marry
Louisa Spotswood, whom he had left
to wait for him, using a wedding-ring
made from Waimea gold; then back to
Maoriland, with a near shipwreck on
the voyage, and to Big Dam once more
with packhorses from Hokitika in the
rain.
At Big Dam keeping a store was a
strong-arm business in which it was
sometimes necessary to strip to the
waist and take unpaid accounts out of
the hides of debtors. A liquor-licence
was soon wedded to the shop, which
s'eems to have added to the excitements
of the profession. These were compli-
cated by a first unsuccessful incursion
into politics as a candidate for the
Arahura County Council, followed by
a more fruitful one which saw him
chosen as a member of the Road Board,
of which he became the rugged chair-
man in 1872, having pushed out the
local baker.
The board provided the same sort of
training that might have been had in
Ireland in the Kilkenny Council, and
the members were apt to nourish them-
selves with copious draughts and
revivers which went down in the
accounts, until checked by Seddonian
roars of protest, under the heading of
“kerosene.” In this virile atmosphere,
in which every known electoral vice
seems to have been practised with art
and daring and double voting was de
rigueur in the best circles, he made an
original appearance as a returning-
officer to the discomfiture of the wicked,
of himself and of a successful candi-
date who was unseated. By such pro-
ceedings he gradually became an im-
portant figure and graduated to the new
Westland Provincial Council at the top
of the Arahura poll in 1874. He at
once advertised the nature of his
pristine democracy by resenting the
somewhat pungent press criticism of
the period and calling on the Speaker
to enforce the Standing Orders and
command strangers —meaning the press
—to withdraw from the sacred pre-
cincts of the Legislative Chamber upon
request being made by two members.
Then he gave notice of a motion of
no-confidence in the newly-created
Cabinet without even waiting to hear
its policy, but did not turn up to move
it.
He followed this up by denouncing
the truck system, under which wages
were paid in orders for goods, and was
himself denounced as a devotee of the
system, whereupon he described his
accuser as a “despicable non compos
mentis individual.” In fact, he appears
to have been a worthy member of a
body of whom the Westland “Times”
remarked, as it reached the end of its
first session, that “suicide is seldom
noble, sometimes dirty but the Pro-
vincial Council of Westland could do
no better than cut its throat, or stab
its guts if it has got any.” Seddon
agreed with this, though one of the
worst offenders* and ended a fantastic
legislative performance by moving, as
the session died, that the provincial
system had outlived its usefulness and
should be abolished at the earliest
possible opportunity. It was typical of
the fate of his legislative moves in
those days that his motion was defeated
by a crushing majority.
By now he had become a miners’
advocate in the warden’s courts with
an irresistible flow of language and a
knowledge of every hole, cranny, bend
or twist both in the goldfields and the
laws which governed them. And
largely on the claim that his knowledge
gave him the right to a seat, he turned
to the national N.Z. Parliament in
1875 and was presently heard menac-
ingly demanding a withdrawal and
apology from the editor of the West
Coast “Times,” who, while ready to
admit that he was a past-master in the
art of self-defence, proclaimed him as
a candidate a “tyro in politics.” That
the editor lived seemed to suggest that
there was one hollow log in the Waimea
district of which Seddon did not know.
The latter enjoyed the campaign,
even though he came a bad fourth out
of five. Defeat did not stem the torrent
of his verbosity or add aspirates or an
elementary knowledge of English
grammar to his oratorical stock-in-
trade. Growing larger, louder and
broader, he plunged deeper' into the
abundant litigation which marked daily
life on the goldfields, but spared
enough time to hurl himself once more
info a provincial election. He cele-
brated, this time, a win at the top of
the poll for which he thanked the elec-
tors from a tree-stump, after which he
hastened to transfer his liquor-licence
to the new rush at Kumara, which
later met the fate of a good many
rushes —while he was away on holiday
in Australia betting on no-hopers in
the Melbourne Cup of 1876.
Early in 1877 he found himself in
altercation with Matthew Price,
Warden of Waimea, a forthright gentle-
man who had once pulled two revolvers
out of his frock-coat pockets, laid
them gently on the bench in front of
him and announced significantly:
“Gentlemen, I have come to open the
court at Okarito.” When Price inter-
fered with the convenience of licensees
—having earlier incurred Seddon’s
unforgiving wrath by “rebuking him
sternly”—Seddon got up a petition for
his removal from the local bench, and
sly-grog sellers were nearly killed in
the rush to sign it. Further causes of
differences having arisen, the Lanca-
shire lad fanned the flames by giving
an imitation of Price from a public
platform and then moving an acrimoni-
ous resolution calling on the Minister
for Justice to remove him from office.
As usual, his resolution was defeated
and he himself was badly lacerated by
public opinion and the press and was
glad to retire from the fray, but this
did not prevent him next year from
being elected first mayor of Kumara
when the raw-hide place was made a
borough.
Victory was celebrated by a proces-
sion from bar to bar, the mayor lead-
ing with a loud brass band. After the
brew of many hostelries had been
tested, it was felt better to hoist the
new first-citizen on the fire-wagon and
allow him to continue the triumph in
a red jacket and a brass helmet.
So garbed he led his united sup-
porters to his own licensed premises,
where there was free champagne for
all. Before his home the fire-brigade
staged a tableau complete with colored
lights and spouting hoses displayed
round the central red-coated figure to
the tune of “Rule Britannia” sung with
band accompaniment.
Thus encouraged, his Worship turned
to the affairs of the Westland County
with some remarkable manoeuvres in
the interest of payment of members,
plus travelling- and hotel-expenses.
These might have made even the
Queensland Parliament blush. They
had little effect on his fortunes in the
battle for economic survival which,
with a large and growing family of
young daughters round his neck, he
was now compelled to wage with bank-
ruptcy amid the waning fortunes of
Kumara.
In 1878 bankruptcy won, but
instead of being ousted ignominiously,
in accordance with the law, from the
council in which he held a seat, he
prepared forthwith to stand at the next
elections not for one, but for two,
councils, a procedure which his
biographer describes somewhat inade-
quately as “an exuberant gesture.”
However, his electors succeeded in
making it clear to the insolvent that one
seat might be enough for the present,
and this he won triumphantly. His
creditors then came to heel, hopeful,
apparently, that he might win the presi-
dency and have better means of paying
them. Failing, he refused the chair-
manship of the finance committee and
“bounced out of the council Chamber.”
He was at this time 34 years old and
chairman of the Kumara Liberal Com-
mittee at a moment when there was a
vacant nomination for the Par-
liamentary seat of Hokitika. He had
the Premier’s —Sir George Grey’s—
benediction but the tooth-and-claw
opposition of three other Greyites
already in the field.
Yelling that he was a “radical” —the
West Coast “Times” dismissed him as
“simply a windbag”—he dashed into
the fray and for the first time began to
attract the considered attention of
national political observers, one of
whom summed him up:—
Without a guide, either in politics,
social or general science, he has made
gigantic strides. His memory is
immense, and if his elocution is de-
ficient his perseverance and pluck,
his powers of persuasion, are worthy
of admiration in a man like him. As
a member of our Councils he has
done more work for the public than
half-a-dozen other members put to-
gether. He forces his opinion on
others ; he leads without being the
elect leader. He can’t help himself.
Thus, his huge bulk very much
visible, his huge voice rumbling forth
declamations, denunciations and
promises, he wooed conservative
Hokitika, asseverating that if elected
he would support Sir George Grey
through “thick and thin,” advocating
manhood suffrage, peace with the
Maoris (“more locomotives, less
Gatling - guns”), opposing Chinese
immigration (he was later accused of
being a partner with the Chinese in a
claim under the name of “Bun Tuck”)
and income tax —save as a last resort
at, say, twopence in the £. He de-
manded a railway to Kumara. ful-
minated against the gold-duty amid the
rousing cheers of Waimea.
Horses died on that historic Septem-
ber 7 under the strain of his energetic
polling-day methods, but they died on
the winning side. He came in second,
and. arriving in Parliament, felt over-
awed momentarily for the only time
in his life, “as if he were in church as
he beheld the Speaker in his chair all
dressed-up like a clergyman.” Three
days later he made a speech on a no-
confidence motion which occupied 19
columns of Hansard, whereupon the'
Wellington “Evening Chronicle” rated
him a “rough diamond,” and the Otago
“Daily Times” as “a very noisy
speaker, but very coaxing in tone.”
On the first occasion on which he was
named as a teller in a division he was
noted “cavorting about the House and
lugging less muscular members into
what he considered the proper lobby.”
He was soon recognised as an
acquisition. The press was delighted
with him, and was apt to print his
speeches verbatim and even literally
“without the aitches.” He had a con-
stitution which did not let him down
in the longest and most onerous fili-
buster. His voice never gave out and
his ingenuity was inexhaustible in a
House in which any device went —even
a midnight earthquake did not halt one
stonewall which started on the even-
ing of a certain August 31 and went
on till 5.30 p.m. on the evening of
September 2, when it was abandoned
under protest. In such proceedings
Seddon was apt to suffer the criti-
cism that “his want of education; his
incapacity to reflect; his aversion to
anything like study or application; his
entire ignorance of the subject he pro-
fesses to be talking about; his Lanca-
shire brogue; his intolerable use of his
h’s render him a grotesque caricature
of a legislator.” And as an M.H.R.,
member of the . Westland County and
Kumara Borough Councils and chair-
man of the Arahura Road Board his
career, as a centre of patronage,
scarcely had a “political background
of the kind to foster exalted senti-
ments.” He declared auditors’ reports
on council irregularities false and
forcibly suppressed awkward discus-
sion.
However, rough politicians for rough
electorates were the rule in the turbu-
lent days of Grey, Hall, Whitaker,
Atkinson and Stout-Vogel in the
1880’s. The champion of the abolition
{Continued on page 35)
PROLOGUE FOR FUTURE
VOYAGERS
The Santa Maria, bullet-nosed,
stands a tower of silver metal
banded with crimson. Saltes Bar,*
Harbor of Palos
and a fine August morning. The
Santa Maria
pointing defiantly the new
Atlantic
of Space. Celebration of Com-
munion:
thrice the bell rings out
upon the sacred silence. And the
tongue
pointed of so much evil
is extended, cupped
to take the weightless wafer.
God speed you, mariners,
and a safe return. News, sirs,
of the size of God’s creation!
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
CADDIS CASE
She would be naked as the stalk of a lily
By bitter spring winds lashed, yet still un-
daunted,
Did she not clothe her skin with small un-
wanted
Castaway trash in a tough web woven
slily;
From that dark sheath protrudes her timid
head
Into her inch-wide, watery world to gaze
And marvel at her world’s mysterious
ways
Whence she is miraculously fed . . .
Thus the man’s soul from soundless deeps
emerges
And in an earth-bound cylinder must hide
And live obscurely in a world outside
The prisoning web, stifle her inmost
urges;
Hark to the staring astro-mathematician,
His thousand million galaxies, his vision
Of all her birth-marks and her origin
And why she shrouds in veils her virgin
skin.
N.Z,
ARNOLD WALL.


sssfit
fte#
... .'. ..■■ :I
418
How well do you know
Anthony Horderns
Anthony Horderns’ (for 50 years the “Heart of Sydney
Central”) is a pleasant and interesting place to spend
a day. Our spacious store is packed with a larger
range of merchandise (from all over the world) than
you would find in a day’s march around the City.
Anthony Horderns’ mammoth acre emporium is a
complete self-contained shopping and business area in
itself, “a city within-a-city” store with a friendly,
efficient atmosphere. It’s our policy to offer you more
service, than any other store in the whole of Australia.
For instance , did you know that—
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a complete Post Office for your con-
venience. All postal facilities of the G.P.O. Letters, parcels can
be posted, Money Orders, Postal Notes issued, Telegrams sent,
etc., Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Branch-Agency of the Commonwealth
Savings Bank. Adjacent the Post Office. Just register your signature
| here and make deposits and withdrawals whilst shopping in the store.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Free writing room for your conven-
ience next to the Bank. Writing materials provided.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has 20 public telephones, including one
trunkline booth handily placed throughout the store.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Pharmacy just inside the Pitt Street
entrance. Prescriptions dispensed, including those on the “Free
Medicine” list., Mr. O. K. Small, mjp.s., ph.e., is in attendance.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has an Optical Service which offers you a
detailed eye examination using modern scientific methods and
equipment. Optometrist, T. N. Rice, a.s.t.c., f.i.0., Second Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has an efficient and speedy Dry Cleaning
Service. In addition to clothing, carpets, rugs, curtains, etc., are
accepted for cleaning. Moderate charges. Ground Floor, George St.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has 7 Customer Lounges. These comfort-
able rest alcoves are appreciated by our customers. Located on
most floors.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has more FREE retiring rooms for both
men and women than any other store in Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has Breakfast ready to serve from 8.30 a.m.
Monday to Friday incl. Moderate charges. Dining Room, 2nd Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Beauty Salon and Chiropody section.
Come in and relax while expert hair stylists cut, permanent wave
and shampoo your hair. Manicurists too, will make your hands
prettier and our Chiropody Salon gives you new foot ease. Prices
moderate. Appointment, 80951. Second Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a complete Catering Service. If you’ve
a party, wedding reception or celebration, our experts will arrange
food, decorations and cutlery. We will lend our crockery, cutlery
and glassware for the important occasions, birthdays, anniversaries,
public functions, etc. Charges moderate.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has an Extended Credit Service which offers
you the lowest terms anywhere. Each transaction is treated confix
dentially and terms arranged to suit your individual income. Credit
Manager, Third Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Picture Framing Dept, that will frame
your pictures and photos with taste. Come and see the great
variety of designs. Ground Floor, Pitt Street. "
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Kodak Photo Developing and Print-
ing Service. Quick service. Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Contemporary Shop where three
expert interior decorators will gladly give you any assistance you
may need for furnishing, re-decorating, home painting and planning
to furnish or re-furnish a home. See our magnificent collection of
modern furniture and drapes, etc. Third Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Fine Art Department where you can
buy or sell antiques. Fourth Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ hap a Gardening Expert (Mr. Albert Evans,
f.r.h.s.) always in attendance to give you guidance and information
on garden problems. Fourth Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Clothing Hospital where we expertly
repair and remodel clothing for both men and women. Invisible
mending, alterations, refitting, relining, etc. Grnd. Floor, George St.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a number of Store Guides who will
give you information about the store activities and where to make
your purchases. They will call a taxi for you or a hire car, direct
and help you in every way.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has a Lay-by Section. You may take
advantage of special bargains offered from time to time even though
you may not have sufficient' ready cash with you. Just pay a small
deposit (4/- in the £) and pay the balance at your own convenience.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has no less than 5 different places where
you can obtain a meal whilst shopping in the store. Whether you
want a three course dinner with liquor or a mere snack, come to
Anthony Horderns’. /
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ has the best telephone service in Sydney.
When you call 80951 ask for T.O.P.S. and our efficient courteous
friendly attendants will take your order on the spot and ring you
back in case of a query. Remember ask for TOPS.


The Bulletin
Vol. 77 — No. 3961
Wednesday, January 11, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE REDS ADVANCE
THE circumstances under which the international
year opens must cause wide unease to the free
world. Events are proving the advantage which
dictatorships enjoy in crisis. A few cunning brains
are able to decide a course and follow it unbraked
by public opinion and uninfluenced by a screaming
free press. The natural sequence of events usually
is that the countries in which freedom of thought
and opinion exists, and in which policies are
governed by uninformed popular will, are compelled
to turn themselves temporarily into dictatorships
like their enemies while they fight a war to save
democracy.
To say this is not, of course, to advocate auto-
cracy or tyranny as a system. It is one which always
leads to oppression, cruelty and corruption. But the
fact is inescapable that in conflict between a
centralised autocracy, like that of the Kremlin (unde-
terred by scruple and influenced by nothing but
the end which is being sought), and a soft and
prosperous democracy in which every man and
woman has a right to an opinion, the autocracy is
the stronger force until physically resisted.
The position as between the two systems now in
conflict in a cold war which is heating up is, at
this stage, alarming. In Europe and America
apprehension of Communist aggression which was
at its height two years ago is dying down. The
growing popular feeling seems to be that there
have been so many warnings of danger without
any concrete manifestations of it on a world scale
that there is no real danger except in the fevered
imaginations of politicians. The sight of Western
statesmen busy with the tightening of urgent de-
fences has become so normal as to have no impact
on the minds of most people. The fulminations of
the Moscow leaders seem to the average man to
lead nowhere except towards peace. The Com-
munist policy has been cunningly devised to
sterilise Western campaigns of warning and to lend
color to the constantly reiterated assurances of
Khrushchev and his kind that all Communism wants
is “mir” —which means in Russian both “peace”
and “the world.”
Under the impact of Russian methods cun-
ningly and constantly applied there is no doubt but
that at the moment the Communists are winning
hands down. In the West, leadership is sick. In
the United States the leader, President Eisenhower
is, in fact, physically sick, and in view of the cen-
tralisation of power and the conduct of affairs in
the >\hite House this affects the virility of the whole
Western-bloc policy.
In the United Kingdom the leadership is no
longer robust either—in the hands of a Prime
Minister who has always loved to busybody and
who lacks the drive and forcefulness and confidence
of his predecessor. The country is debilitated by
having an Opposition in Parliament which is
quasi-pacifist.
France, the fountainhead of modem democracy
—and of Communism —is in political chaos, with
an election just over in which the Communists have
won over 150 seats, and the other teeming parties
are in a hopeless confusion which makes stable
government impossible. Italy is almost in the
same position. The most stable major countries
in Continental Europe are West Germany, under
immediate threat from the Russians across the
Elbe, and Spain. But both have great economic
leeway to make up before they can be strong.
In the Eastern sphere it puts it mildly to say
that Australia lives on the edge of a volcano which
might empt at any moment. While the Russians
are playing a waiting game in Europe, Asia and
Africa are their active playgrounds, since they con-
tain the countries in which government is imma-
ture or effete and in which there are huge masses
of ignorant or illiterate depressed classes with
the “muddy brains” which are a prerequisite to
the establishment of slave autocracies of the Mos-
cow type.
The articles of Denis Warner, one of the best
authorities on South-East Asia, have given the
readers of “The Bulletin” some insight into what is
happening along the road from the Chinese border
to this country via Indo-China, Malaya and Indo-
nesia, and of the stakes that are being played for.
The speeches of Khrushchev and Bulganin in
India and Burma —speeches in which they went
the impudent length of suggesting that “the English,,
French and Americans started the Second World
War and sent new troops, the troops of Hitlerite
Germany, against our country”—speak for them-
selves, as well as the outbursts Qf rebellion, racial
hate and sabotage fomented for Moscow’s purposes
throughout the Moslem zone. There is no doubt
that the heat is on, and that, step by step in the
Far East and the Indian Ocean, the Mao Plan
publicised in the United States Senate by Senator
Knowland in April, 1954, is being carried out.
It is well that Australians should realise what
was in the document allegedly framed in 1953 by
Mao and read into the U.S. Senate Records by
Senator Knowland. It mentioned the Communist
bloc’s “amazing achievements .... in the great
task of world-revolution.” It declared that “the
time has come to look upon Asia as our immediate
goal, since vigorous action in Europe, such as
internal revolution, effective infiltration or intimida-
tion into inaction or submission is now impossible
and more forcible measures would bring war.”
It laid down that the United States must be
isolated by all possible means. Britain must be
placated by being convinced that there is a pos-
sibility of settling the major issues between the
East and West and that the capitalist and Com-
munist countries can live together in peace. Trade
opportunities must be used to influence the British.
France’s war-weariness and fear of Germany must
be thoroughly exploited. Japan must be convinced
that rearmament endangers rather than guarantees
her security, and that the United States could not
hope to defend her in a world war. Japan must be
taught that rearmament for defence would be
looked on as an act of hostility by her neighbors.
Japan must be drawn into trade with mainland
Asia so as to secure a grip on the Japanese
economy.
As a final Mao goal there must be in East and
South-East Asia “25 million well-trained men who
can be immediately mobilised.” Their existence
would achieve two purposes. One is to “force the
capitalist countries to keep on increasing defence-
expenditure until economic collapse overcomes
them.” On the- other hand, “a mere show of
force, when the time is ripe, will bring about the
capitulation of the ruling cliques of the countries
to be liberated.”
It was set out that failure by the Chinese in
the Korean war was due to lack of naval strength,
and that Mao had suggested to Stalin in 1951 that
Russian submarines should be used in the Korean
area under some arrangement by which “the Soviet
Union would not be apparently involved in the
war.” But Stalin felt this might give the United
Nations an excuse for extending the war to conti-
nental Asia.
Until we are better equipped for victory, it
is to our advantage to accept agreeable terms for
an armistice.
Official U.S. and Japanese reports this month
concur that there was an immense building-
up of Russian Far Eastern naval strength in 1955.
China was to give maximum assistance to the
Communists in Indo-China. The object was to
“force the French to back out of Indo-China
preferably through the face-saving means of an
armistice.” It was added: —
Once foreign intervention is out of the
picture, vigorous propaganda, infiltration, forma-
tion of united-fronts with progressive elements
inside and out of the reactionary regimes will
~ accelerate the process of liberation. A final stroke
of force will accomplish the task. Two years may
be needed for the task.
Next, “after the liberation of Indo-China,”
Burma would fall in line, as a “good foundation
has already been laid there.” Then “the reaction-
ary clique in Thailand will capitulate.” The libera-
tion of Indonesia, “which will fall into the Com-
munist camp as a ripe fruit,” will then “complete
the circle round the Malay Peninsula,” and the
British will “realise the hopelessness of putting up a
fight and will withdraw as quickly as possible.”
Mao added: “We expect this process to be
completed in or before 1960, by which time China’s
military, economic and industrial power would be
so developed that, with a mere show of force by
China and the Soviet Union, the ruling clique of
Japan would capitulate.” Lest the United States
should interfere, “the defensive and offensive
preparations of the Soviet Union and China, there-
fore, must be completed by 1960.”
Next:—
In the case of India, only peaceful means
should be adopted. Any employment of force
will alienate ourselves from the Arabic countries
and Africa, because India is considered to be our
friend After India is won over the problems
of the Philippines and the Arabic countries can
be easily solved by economic co-operation,
alliances and united-fronts and coalitions. This
task may be completed in 1965.
Then a “wave of revolution will sweep Africa,”
and the “imperialists will be driven into the sea.”
It was added that “this powerful movement may be
under way much earlier.” It is, in fact, under
way now.
Finally, according to the Mao plan, it seems
that “with Asia and Africa disconnected from the
capitalist countries in Europe, there will be a total
economic collapse in Western Europe.” There,
“capitulation will be a matter of course.” Canada
and South Africa will find themselves in a hopeless
position economically as to defence and cave in.
“Twenty years from now” —that is, by 1973
it was planned thaf “world-revolution should be an
accomplished fact,” with Russia the capital of the
globe.
The plan can now be seen in movement
according to timetable, combined with pressures
and diversions designed to distract attention from
the main scene of operation—pressures evidenced
in such matters as the outbreaks in Cyprus, the
fomenting of war between Israel and the Arab
States, the generation of rebellion in North Africa,
the seizure of East Berlin; distractions like the
world-wide campaign of disturbance in transport
industries which is uniformly hitting every British-
speaking country and in the fierce demand, on a
curiously uniform pattern, for wage-increases at a
time when world prices tend to decline.
Nobody studying these matters in detail could
doubt that these things are all a world pattern with
a common purpose directed to serve the ends of
Communism.
The West will have to wake up and resist if
it is to be saved. Especially as a first measure it
will have to root Communism out of its own vitals
before it can fight it abroad. In Australia it is
operating vigorously and disloyally with the so-
called “Labor” party as its instrument and as the
docile creature of its seditious policies.
In the Corner?
RETIREMENT into the healing solitude of
the wilderness for a time has been recognised
through the ages as having therapeutic value for
the tired mind and weary spirit. Politically, how-
ever, the “wilderness” is popularly regarded as a
kind of purgatory in which an Opposition wanders
until it regains its strength and perhaps finds its
soul. Evatt-led “Labor” is once more there, and it
seems doomed to remain indefinitely if Dr. Evatt
is retained in charge.
The only really effective step towards a solu-
tion of some of the Opposition’s troubles would be
if “the Doc.” himself recognised how great a handi-
cap his presence imposes on any proposals for
rebuilding and consolidation of the party. If he
wished he could simplify the matter and add greatly
to his own reputation and prestige by retiring
voluntarily to a bkck-bench seat, and there devot-
ing his not inconsiderable talents to the examina-
tion of legislation, the primary task for which all
politicians are elected. At the same time he might
be prepared to give some thought to the reasons
why “Labor” was so soundly beaten and to
measures which might regain it a little esteem.
This, of course, presupposes that his devious
mind would be capable of so judicial a role; that
he would be ready to forswear ambition for some
time at least, and that he would regard the subject
more honestly than his post-election “whinge” about
the electors being misled under the recent redistribu-
tion of seats would suggest. There is no doubt that
if he does not grab this chance someone else in the
party will, recognising that the man who points
the way to a revitalised Opposition may well be
qualifying himself for the Prime Ministership at
some admittedly distant date.
The precedent, although not quite parallel, is
there. In 1942 Menzies sat in the Opposition
corner, holding no Opposition position and able to
give a great deal of attention to what was happen-
ing in the anti-Socialist parties after their collapse
as a Government in 1941. He made some highly
effective speeches in the House from that position,
which he felt gave him a commanding view of the
Assembly, and he devoted long hours in private to
hard work, varied by long walks to maintain his
physical fitness. The pay-off came when, after the
1943 return of Curtin and Co. to power, he used
his influence, as Leader of the Opposition, to bring
the splinter-groups together in 1944 and form the
Liberal party. •
That party started with a policy which has been
little varied (although a good many members might
be hard put to remember it all). Its basic outlook
was> stated clearly and understandably, and the
results were reflected even as soon as 1946. They
have been apparent to all since 1949.
The question now is whether “Labor” can
follow similar tactics, and whether Dr. Evatt is
the man to give a lead. It is hard to visualise such
a break from the wrangling and opportunism so
prominent in the party in recent years, but unless
something of the kind is attempted the outcome
can be only a still-weaker Opposition and a rapid
disintegration of the “Labor” organisation in all
States.
“In the Act.”


THE HOUSE WITH CRACKED WALLS
(After Cezanne)


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Politicians' Gift
Another row is raging round. the
rfc»voted form of Mr. Clive Evati,
who hi boon kicking hard over the party
traces and has consequently been hauled
before an embarrassed committee of the
NSW A L.P. Executive, over whicn,
de facto the wraith of Big Brother
e d from the newspaper
evidence that Mr. Evatt, showing his
usual independence and contempt for the
party outlook, had given his support at
branch meetings at HurstviUe and else-
where to a scheme propounded by Mr
Morton, Leader of the Opposition,
make the people a present of a Bill ot
Rights guaranteeing them liberty o
speech religion and action— something
presumably so universal that it will even
apply to police-magistrates.
P To his other remarks Mr. Evatt was
said to have added some unkind references
to Mr. Cahill and his Government. As
the result of these utterances the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” announced that the
ALP would almost certainly expel Mr.
Evatt, and the “S. M. Herald” that it
wouldn’t. . ~
Outcome of the carpeting was confus-
ing If the committee could be believed,
Mr. Evatt denied the charges; if the
newspaper reports of his post-operative
lucubrations are accurate, he heroically
affirmed every word he said.
It is not these mechanical details ot tne
quarrel, however, which matter— they are
typical of the muddle, delusion and
straightout lying which characterise
everything connected with Labor
politics. It is symptomatic of the state
of “Labor’s” mind that when the Opposi-
tion puts forward a scheme similar to
one which “Labor” itself submitted to a
Commonwealth referendum a . ,°y^ r
a decade ago with the full weight of the
A L.P. behind it, the A.L.P. should refuse
to accept the Opposition’s conversion and
carpet a member who dares to support
something to which his party pledges
committed him in 1944. But that does
not matter. . .
What is of real moment is the im-
pudence of State politicians, of whatever
party, who profess to be able to give
and therefore, to take away
—the rights and liberties which are in-
herent in all British Constitutions under
the common law.
]T)oes Mr. Morton, like Dr. Evatt, really
believe that it is necessary to legislate
for freedom of speech, religion and poli-
tical action in Australia? Does he think,
in any case, that he can create a differ-
ential set of rights for the people of
N. S. Wales over the heads of the Com-
monwealth and the common law?
If he does, he admits the right of any
Government which cares to legislate on
these matters to take‘these same rights
away.
It is true that Dr. Evatt took the same
view as himself as regards the whole
Commonwealth, but his subsequent
career and associations with the
Communist party, which formed
a joint committee with the Trades
Hall Council in Sydney to pro-
mote a “Yes” vote at his referendum,
illuminate his motives. At the time of
his essay at parcelling-out liberty, those
who owned copies of the Soviet Union
Constitution noted that some of
his proposals came almost word for word
out of that charter of slavery and were
obviously designed to establish the power
of legislative control over public speech
and political action.
Nobody would accuse Mr. Morton of
going to the same source for his Consti-
tutional material. But his scheme, how-
ever well-meant, is that of an amateur
not familiar with the rights of his own
electors or with the full extent to which
they have power over their own destinies
and freedoms —and over politicians.
They themselves are a better guarantee
of their liberty than any ephemeral legis-
lation that Mr. Morton or anybody else
can pass, especially in a State which is
not subject to the same legislative limi-
tations as the Commonwealth with its
written Constitution.
If Mr. Morton wishes to win the com-
ing election he would do well to drop
his plan for establishing codified freedom,
which is about as wise and foreseeing,
and likely to meet the same fate, as Mr.
Cahill’s plan for compulsory-unionism.
Australian Music
The Broadcasting Control Board is to be
congratulated on recommending an in-
crease of Australian music on Australian
stations from the prescribed 2\ per cent.
to 5 per cent. Music can’t be made by
law, but it’s amazing what can be drawn
out of a people when they are shown a
thing is worth trying.
A rash of “hit-parades” bears witness
to the low standard required of overseas
“popular” music, below which it should
be difficult for Australian composers to
fall. The difficulty is in presentation—-it
is obviously easier to import the ready-
made article than to pay for the costly
arrangements, presentation, and pub-
licised singers in Australia.
With symphonic music it is the reverse.
Sir Eugene Goossens has brought the
Sydney orchestra up to world standards
of precision, alertness and sensitivity , it
can present anything to the best advan-
tage. But the discovery of “Corroboree,”
which began Sir Eugene’s Sydney career,
evidently exhausted his taste for explora-
tion ; and we have an Australian orchestra
brought to perfection, and Australian
music left in the desert.
No country can be considered great in
music that is merely a performer of other
countries’ music. Prescription of at least
one Australian work, however short, in
every A.B.C. concert might bore the
regular customers, but such boredom
often enforces better work, and it is
obvious that letting things be is not get-
ting Australian music anywhere.
Mr. Sheahcm's Triumph
For the time being Mr. Sheahan, the
N. S. Wales Attorney-General, appears
to have had it all his own way in his con-
test with Mr. Finlay, the magistrate who
criticised his interference —not for the
first time, it was alleged—with the pro-
cesses of justice in the interests of a
relative.
It has always been a principle m
judicial practice in British countries that
magistrates and judges with full juris-
diction should be fearlessly independent
of everybody, including those who
appoint and pay them, and that they
should be able to—and should—boldly
speak their minds whenever the course of
justice demands it.
It is completely contrary to all
judicial principle and to the public in-
terest that magistrates should be intimi-
dated by anybody. If a private person
whose words are not privileged should
attempt to do it he runs a powerful risk
of being hauled up before the Bench and
committed to Long Bay, even though he
may do less harm than an interfering
official or politician.
However, more and more members of
Parliament and Ministers misuse their
privileged position to suit their own in-
terests or those of favored constituents.
In this instance the magistrate found
a case concerning the relative of a Minis-
ter delayed because the papers had been
sent for by the Minister. It transpired
later that the prosecution had been with-
drawn. The magistrate very properly
made a strong but measured comment
from the Bench, as it has long been the
privilege and duty of magistrates in such
circumstances to do.
He was immediately attacked on the
public platform in abusive terms. Mr.
Finlay then gave the facts from, the
Bench. .
He was again attacked and hauled
before the N.S.W. Public Service Board,
interrogated in private and rebuked and,
it is reported, told “not to engage in
similar controversies” in future.
On the basis of all precedent and right-
dealing Mr. Finlay was fully justified m
his action—as fully justified as the Public
Service Board is unjustified in interfer-
ing with magisterial proceedings.
If any inquiry had been held it should
have been into the conduct of the
Attorney-General, and if Mr. Cahill
doesn’t take the matter up and appoint
a judge to make that inquiry publicly
both the magistracy as a whole, perman-
ent and honorary, and the responsible
law societies should have something to
say.
Among other things somebody should
consider how far the actions of the mem-
bers of the Public Service Board are
privileged and whether the members have
either the right or the duty to act as
dictators of magisterial conduct. If they
have, the law should be altered, and that
quickly, because what has taken place is
completely out of line with all precedent,
and smacks of totalitarianism in its worst
form.
The Opposition should insist that the
papers be laid on the table of the House
when Parliament meets.
Distracted France
The French elections, as was to be ex-
pected, ended in chaos, and the worst
feature has been the distinct drifts to-
wards the extreme Left and the extreme
Right. , . . r
The results present an ugly picture ot
disorder and lack of national unity, not
altogether the product of the country s
disastrous sufferings in two great wars.
It is true that in one war France made
unbelievable sacrifices in blood and trea-
sure, and that in the other it collapsed, as
in 1870, and was occupied by the enemy.
But the basic reasons for present condi-
tions go deeper than that. .
It is a paradox that the land which is
regarded as the birthplace of modern
Continental “democracy” is about the
least suited for democracy on earth, its
people being individualists to the last
man and woman.
Its patriotism, moreover, a modern
growth, is an artificial thing forced on
regions whose racial differences and varied
temperaments are violently apparent.
France, where even the condemned spy
is supposed to murmur, as the handker-
chief falls, Ce pour France, indeed has a
unity very much like that of the Austra-
lian Labor party, of which the motto is
that of the Three Musketeers—“ One for
all and all for one,” but with the signifi-
cant whispered addition: “And the Devil
take the hindmost.”
French politics have become a mass ot
intrigue and chicanery mingled with cor-
ruption and sedition, a morass in the
midst of which only a few idealists exist.
The one consolation in the present
situation is that the Communists
gained their rise in strength rather
through the breakdown of the party
alliance system than through added
popularity. Their vote actually was
less than they polled in 1951. But this
does not affect the realities of the Gov-
ernmental position. The groupings of
the various parties fall into the classifi-
cation of moderate Right, under the out-
going Prime Minister, Faure, the moderate
Left under Pierre Mendes-France, with
the Communists on the extreme-Left wing
and the Poujadists and other Right ex-
tremists on the other.
The problem of stability lies in bring-
ing the moderate Left and the moderate
Right so close together that they can
govern as a coalition, which is compar-
able to the task of making Evatt and
Cahill act like brothers. Failing this
arrangement, no conceivable Govern-
ment can be formed without an alliance
with either the Communists —who are
already shrieking for a “popular front •
or the Poujadists and other Right-
extremists
At best it is a poor lookout. And not
only for France. As ever, the defence of
the West is based on France.
The Kremlin must be shaking-hands
with itself.
The Bodgie Press
A front-page headline in an Australian
paper suggested “Use of Lash on Young
Hoodlums.” The same page that advo-
cated this enlightened approach flaunted
an advertisement which began spicily :
“Sex School for Women Spies.” The
advertisement is for a weekly which can
scarcely be said to cater for the more
salubrious literary appetites, published by
the same house as the daily which sug-
gests a return to the lash.
The weekly in question is, in fact,
reminiscent of a large section of the U.K.
press which—contrary to notions of
staid British character—offers daily read-
ing of a kind here deemed too unsavory
for anything but Sunday papers. (Ran-
dolph Churchill is winning respect in
more responsible parts of Fleet Street for
his war on such papers.)
It is unquestionable that by making
headline-holidays of bodgie-misdeeds Aus-
tralian papers will worsen the trouble.
Part of the psychic mechanism of the
bodgie is a need to attract attention. Per-
haps society itself is sometimes at fault
in having failed to teach him socially
acceptable ways by which he may fulfil
this need and assert his importance. He
compensates. He dresses like a peacock
and behaves like a mad bull. And by
exploiting his exploits in sensational
newsmongering the press gives him pre-
cisely the emotional satisfaction he
craves.
Commonwealth Task?
“In the ACT”: No one who knows
Prime Minister Menzies would imagine
he would be in the least attracted by the
published suggestion that he should retire
to the chilly climate of Great Britain for
the purpose of augmenting the debating-
strength of the House of Lords.
Presumably her Majesty would be
delighted to elevate him to the peerage
if he expressed any desire for it, but
surely his talents, and the statesmanship
he has displayed increasingly in the last
six years, could be devoted much more
usefully to a wider field. It may be
doubted whether he is anxious to continue
much longer in the middle of the storm
of Australian politics, especially as he
has led the party he formed in 1944 to a
position of commanding eminence.
Even the possibility of some difficulties
with the Senate before the end of 1959
may awaken less interest in him than
it might have done a few years ago. The
Parliament would feel his loss greatly
should he relinquish the Prime Minister-
ship, but the present situation ensures that
there would be no loss of administrative
stability.
His retirement at the age of 61, how-
ever, is only likely if he is convinced
that there is an alternative and even more
important task ahead, although an
employment calling for none of the
harassing but minor chores which beset
the chief Minister in Australia. Observ-
ers in Canberra believe that th|re is a
major role in the field of Commohwealtn
relations waiting to be filled, and that
there will be some discussion of it at the
Prime Ministers’ conference in London
next June.
It would be a twofold task. The present
good relations between the eight sovereign
States of the Commonwealth may need
further strengthening in the next vital
years, and the influence of the Common-
wealth as a group in world affairs, in the
crucial struggle now in progress for the
hearts and minds of mankind, must be
reinforced and expressed with clarity;
vigor and fervor. The first and most
difficult problem will be to secure some
measure of agreement among the diverse
(<Continued on next page )
Alt Australian Play
Sydney dailies haven’t been quite
accurate in describing Ray Lawler’s
“Summer of the Seventeenth Doll” as the
first Australian play to be backed by the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust. Though they
didn’t transfer it to the bigger theatre at
Newtown, the Trust previously backed
Ray Mathew’s “We Meet the Bunyip”
at the Independent —and a very useful
thing it is to have the Trust thus pre-
pared to support lively experiment for a
try-out.
But “Summer of the Seventeenth Doll, ’
after its season at the University’s theatre
in Melbourne, is the first Australian play
the Trust has put on at its own hand-
some theatre; and anyone who cares for
the arts in this country, as well as for
the promise of a vigorous night’s enter-
tainment, should make a point of seeing
it.
There doesn’t seem to be much doubt
about the play’s basic quality. The
Bulletin’s Melbourne critic said it was
“the first intelligent play about Melbourne
that Melbourne has seen —Mr. Lawler
has dramatic skill of a high order” ; the
Melbourne dailies were enthusiastic ; and
Sydney “Daily Telegraph’s” Melbourne
correspondent was in such delight over
it that he couldn’t bear to mention the
actors’ names —which tribute the actors
must have received with somewhat mixed
feelings.
In published comments about his play
Mr- Lawler, if correctly reported, hak
counted amongst its merits that it is not
about sheep-stations. What’s wrong with
sheep-stations? The subject has hardly
been overdone in Australian plays, since
nobody has ever written one on it that
got to the professional theatre. What’s
wrong with any aspect of Australian life
as a subject for drama or comedy?
But that’s an irrelevance, and may
have been just “publicity.” The impor-
tant thing is that Mr. Lawler’s play is
about Queensland cane-cutters, and the
dolls they meet when on holiday in
Melbourne: what Dame Sybil Thorndike
has described as “an Abbey Theatre kind
of play; a play of the soil,” the kind
of play that most needs to be written in
this country, for the drama has lagged
far behind the novel and the short-story
in showing us what we are made of.
Australians are now passionately de-
voted to the blameless pastime of reading
books about themselves, and it is un-
thinkable that they should not welcome
the more exciting diversion of actually
seeing themselves on stage. Indeed, on
the grounds of national curiosity alone,
Mr. Lawler deserves an audience, for
most people know nothing about cane-
cutters, while the mere existence of dolls
in Melbourne will come as a surprise to
thousands.


elements represented in the Common-
wealth on such action, and it is possible
that Menzies has already given a good
deal of attention to it.
The British Office of Information,
doubtless aware of impending discus-
sions, recently pointed out that “the
Commonwealth precludes >by its very
nature the possibility of any central
administration laying-down a common
foreign, economic or defence policy.”
However, the Office proceeded to detail
the machinery of consultation developed
over the years, and to stress its frank and
intimate character and the resultant
development of “the greatest possible
measure of community of view and co-
operation in action.” It declared, pre-
sumably expressing the opinion of the
British Government, that the drawbacks
inherent in such a loosely knit associa-
tion, in which member-countries might
pursue individual and perhaps even con-
flicting courses of action, were more than
offset by the mutual tolerance and will-
ingness to co-operate which throve more
readily on complete freedom than on any
form of compulsion.
It is undoubtedly true that none of the
member-countries will ever contemplate
relinquishing its present freedom of
action. But all of them must be conscious
that the changes in the world outlook, as
well as in their own situations, since the
first “Imperial Conference” in 1911,
make some review of the meaning of their
co-operation imperative.
It is no longer sufficient for them to be
fully and frankly informed on each
other’s policies on matters of common
concern. Their internal Constitutional
and political developments do not pre-
clude a wide measure of agreement be-
tween members on matters of world im-
portance, whether expressed in the United
Nations or elsewhere, and such agree-
ment might be increased, and given
greater impact if someone with the pres-
tige and knowledge of Mr. Menzies were
to exert himself to extend it.
The job might require a good deal of
travel; it would certainly involve the
greatest possible amount of vision, of
tact, and of down-to-earth knowledge
of world affairs on the highest level.
Commonwealth unity in such matters
would be so important, and perhaps so
decisive, that the utmost efforts would be
justified in seeking and securing it. It
could be that the British Prime Minister,
now believed to be devoting himself more
to foreign affairs, visualises some such
task for himself. It might be that he
would welcome Mr. Menzies as co-
ordinator and spokesman, with broadly
defined and acceptable duties. This year
may show whether vague thoughts on the
subject can be made explicit, and whether
the great world potential of the Com-
monwealth can be translated into an effec-
tive force for world-wide peaceful
development.
POLITICAL POINTS
It is acknowledged by political
observers who have lived through many
“Uman crises that it is easier to handle
the finances of war than it is to manage
the economics of peace. The world faced
something like an economic crisis in
1951 ; then came the Korean war, and
worid prices recovered smartly. Now
the prices of many raw materials, metals
perhaps excepted, are at their lowest level
since 1948, and a number of countries,
including Australia, have been affected.
Barring another flare-up involving
large-scale military mobilisation, 1956
looks like being the most difficult year,
economically, Australia has had since
1939. Even if world-prices should be
sthnulated artificially by unwelcome
military activity, it will only aggravate
the fundamental weakness in the Austra-
lian economy, which is high costs. A
showdown before long is inevitable.
• •
The new Menzies Ministry will most
likely be confronted with problems in
swift succession during the life of the
present Parliament. It will be a harass-
ing period, in which great skill and tact
will be needed in meeting problems,
because the public will need to be told
some unpleasant truths about the present
Australian way of life. And it is a pity
that a more skilful economist than
Fadden is not in charge of the Treasury.
Though his qualities are many, practical
economics are not Fadden’s strong point,
and to a large extent he is in the hands
of his favorite advisers.
The next three years will call for wis-
dom and determination on the part of
several Ministers if the economic pro-
blems of Australia are to be successfully
overcome.
• •
Meetings of the Government parties in
Canberra before the weekend accom-
plished nothing save to confound the
daily-press crystal-gazers and strengthen
the Prime Minister’s hand. At the
moment of writing (9/1/’56) only one
or two men knew what kind of a
Cabinet organisation would face the new
Parliament —and they were not telling
till ready. Osborne, Cramer, David-
son, Dr. Cameron, Downer, Hulme,
Wentworth, Bostock, Fairbairn, Fair-
hall, Schwartz —all Ministerial timber —•
but 11 into three or five won’t go.
• •
The greatest comedian since “Mo” —
Clive Evatt. Or is it Brother Bert?
• •
Anthony Eden’s Prime Ministership
promises to be a rough passage, judging
by the withering blast of criticism of his
foreign-policy which has struck him from
both sides of the Commons and by Con-
servative papers like the “Daily Mail” and
“Daily Telegraph.” The Government has
found it necessary to deny that he will
resign, but he will face a full-dress debate
organised by Labor after Parliament
meets on January 24, without a solid
party behind him. And unless he handles
it better than he has handled the Middle
East his number is up.
• •
The salient fact about the French
election results is that the Communists,
the allies of Russia, a country eager to
overrun the West and from which the
French could expect only savagery and
ravage, have returned as the strongest
individual party. They went to the polls
98 strong and came back with over 150
seats.
At the other, extreme are the Pouja-
dists, extreme-Right bourgeois fanatics,
who appear to be motivated by an ob-
session for honest government which
leads all other French politicians to vote
them queer in the head. They shuffled
to the vote with a strength of two and
returned with 49, to the great discom-
fort of their fellow-deputies, who note
with concern that the forefront of their
programme is a demand for a stern audit
of all public accounts. It seems to be the
only concrete plank in their platform.
The Republicans fell disastrously in
numbers from 162 to under 100, and the
“Social Republicans,” who used to be
Gaullists, went well on the way to being
extinguished. Their party, last year of
69, holds only 16 as the count stands
when this is written. The various kinds
of Radicals and “Near Radicals,” Socia-
lists and others of their brand all lost
ground.
• •
It is queer that a more resolute and
talented crowd don’t find themselves
attracted to the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly. The poor reputation that the
N.S.W. Parliament possesses at present is
mostly the result of 13 years of “Labor”
misgovernment and political corruption.
A strong Liberal and Country-party team
would find outlets for any amount of
skill and legislative wisdom, as well as
constructive business ability. There are
oceans of reconstruction to be done. The
Government of N.S.W. is a sovereign
body with powers not often understood
by the people, and it fills a key position
in the whole Australian scheme of things.
Its position will grow more important if
economic conditions grow worse this
year.
The need for States is debatable, but
they do exist. Under the present Federal
system, what a good State Government
can do is shown by the steady progress
of South Australia under Playford.
RUNNING OUT
The Liberals in N. S. Wales propose
the restoration of the State Savings Bank,
of which the profits will be used to finance
home-building. There are some snags.
First, the old bank was liquidated by
agreement with the Commonwealth, and
the agreement stands ; second, the optim-
ism arising from the fact that
in Victoria and other States the
savings-banks of the States attract
more business than the Common-
wealth one is false reasoning. In those
States the local institutions were well
established before the Commonwealth
went into the savings business, none of
them has suffered the disastrous liquida-
tion of the Lang days in N.S.W., and
none of them has had so far to compete
with several private banks, as the new
one in N.S.W. will have to compete with
the ’Wales and others.
• •
Proposal by the N.S.W. Libs, to
legalise s.p.-betting is a sensible move.
It is better to have the betting disease
controlled than to let it be a source of
uncontrolled corruption and crime, and
an everlasting temptation to decent
policemen. Also, it could bring in
substantial State revenue.
• •
Judge Foster, of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court, is reported to have
said that it seemed at the moment that
arbitration could not work in Australia.
It certainly hasn’t been working to Aus-
tralia’s advantage since the 40-hour-week
award was made.
One trouble with the arbitration
System, apart from its inherent Con-
stitutional weaknesses, is that it is too
legalistic. For it to work properly, the
economic side must be given as much
weight as the legalistic aspect. And
sound economists are much scarcer than
lawyers.
• •
Even Anthony Eden, always ready to
parley, could not stomach the futile
Labor suggestion that a “new approach
should be made to Soviet Russia asking
for her co-operation to try to preserve
peace between the Arab States and
Israel.” It would be like asking a well-
known fence to put down house-
breaking. President Eisenhower’s sum-
mary of the present Moscow policy is
accurate. It has changed from violence
and threat to “division, enticement and
duplicity,”
• •
Proportional-misrepresentation.
• •
With the election of the Anti-
Communist party’s only successful candi-
date in either Federal House —Frank
McManus, in Victoria, who had first
place on the card —it is assured that after
June the Government can be defeated by
a ghostly casting-vote in the Senate every
time McManus and Cole (who is a carry-
over from the previous Senate election)
vote against it.
Over 200 new public-telephone sets
have been damaged by vandals in Sydney
eastern suburbs in the past month,
Graveyards tom-up, tombstones smashed,
the bones of pioneers scattered, public
buildings defiled, telephones wrecked,
tram- and rail-seats slashed —free, uni-
versal education produces grand results!
• •
On page 14 of this issue there is an
account of the Soviet’s emphasis on
piecework as a means of pepping-up in-
dustrial production. It is aimed at stimu-
lating “the creative initiative of the
working-people... .!in accordance with
the quantity and quality of the work
done.” That is a far cry from the Marx
policy of “From each according to his
ability; to each according to his need.”
But it is undoubtedly a means of increas-
ing productivity, and for that reason
Communist-controlled trade-unions in
Australia won’t have a bar of it. What
is good for the Soviet is not good for
Western countries, in Communist estima-
tion.
• •
Lincoln Electric Co. (Aust.), maker of
industrial and farm welding-equipment,
divided £60,000 of its profits among
employees during 1955. That made
£219,000 so distributed during the past
five years, and £321,000 since 1941, all
exclusive of piecework incentive-pay-
ments and commissions. Bonuses are paid
on the assessed value of each employee’s
contribution to profits. During 1955 in-
creased man-hour output brought about
a 22 p.c. reduction in labor costs, and
enabled the co. to maintain stable prices
in spite of marginal increases and the
like. And so a healthy plant of industrial
commonsense flourishes in a field where
go-slow weeds and trade-union parasitism
are all too common. There seems to be a
lesson in it for managements as well as
wage-earners.
• •
One item which N.S.W. Liberal party
could well put on its policy-programme is
new legislation to deal with illegal usage
of motor-cars. In Victoria the new Act
has gone into effect, and already the
young larrikins who have hitherto re-
garded the sport as good, clean fun have
begun to leam that its trophies are salu-
tary jail-sentences. The first three went
to Pentridge last week.
*
• •
The pressure-groups are beginning
their year well. A large bunch of them
met under the presidency of the much-
travelled Mr. Monk and threatened a
“nation-wide strike from January 23
unless shipowners agree to confer with
. the waterside unions on their grievances”
I —which include failure to accede to
demands for £1 15s. attendance-money
and increased margins, which the court
refused last October. As no attempt
apparently was made to ask the owners
whether they would confer—they were
perfectly willing—the manoeuvre was
obviously designed to display the
A.C.T.U.’s muscles.
• •
The secretary of the Merchant Ser-
vices Guild has told The Bulletin that
the reason why the Guild instructed its
members not to work the Tarinna was
not because the chief-engineer’s cabin was
on the same deck as the captain’s (B.
21/12/’55), but because it simply insists
on the captain having superior accommo-
dation to any other officer.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
I LOVE the trustee co., which keeps my
will decently locked away in a cup-
board, very dearly. But must they send
me a calendar every year, to remind me
that time passes and nearer and nearer
comes the day when they will, so to
speak, execute me? —“Mac Hoots.”
*X* *X* ♦♦♦
“Chevroford”: If there were fewer
accidents in the Christmas season Mel-
bourne’s new-style traffic-police can take
some of the blame. I was driving at my
usual moderate pace past the Exhibition
Buildings when a grave voice said: “You
in the utility, please be careful, you in
the utility, please be careful.” As I
always think I am the sinner I drew into
the kerb and was stopping when I heard
the same voice saying: “You in the
utility, please be careful. You have
two children in the back, remember.” As
I had 200 empty tomato-puree tins in my
back which I was taking home for plant-
pots I concluded that I was not the target
for this polite bombardment and drove
on. But could anything have been more
tactful?
$ ❖
“Sauk”: During the opening weeks of
1955 my life was punctuated with sudden
assaults from undersized Spacemen who,
in strange garb incorporating rockets
attached to the back and fantastically
shaped helmets, seared me to a cinder
with flashes from deadly ray-guns. It
was the era of the Man of the Future.
Today the Spaceman is no more, com-
pletely annihilated by a coonskin-capped
“I hope you don't mind if I blot-out this birthmark , miss
— mucks-up my composition."
figure wearing near-buckskin who just as
callously mows me down, but with a
Davy Crockett muzzle-loading musket or
huge plastic horse-pistol. It is a frighten-
ing thought that 12 months can see our
civilisation go back a century and a half.
& %
“Nunk”: The most noticeable thing
about the recent Christmas beano was
the almost-complete absence of carols.
Leastwise, if they were broadcast, no one
turned them on in our huge block of flats.
During the previous several Christmases,
they had blared through every big store
in town; they had become associated
with trade, and it looks as though it will
be many years before they live it down, i
£4 * S* <s*
“Uramao”: A taxi-driver, appealing
from a decision of the Chiistchurch
(NZ.) Transport Board, told the judge
he had rehabilitated his shattered nerves
with a rest-cure in the city’s council-
cemetery. In 18 months he had dug 90
graves, and tended others, and now felt
a new man. Maybe there would be fewer
accidents if all drivers were made to study
the end-products of the motor-industry.
❖ ♦>
“Maitri”: A woman friend who de-
votes a lot of her time to helping the
blind was asked by a girl thus handi-
capped to guide her through a certain
part of Sydney. She’d secured a job, and,
if she travelled once over the ground with
a helping hand, thought she’d be able to
make-out on her own in future. It was
the most revelatory journey my friend
has ever made. “This is a greengrocer’s,”
announced the blind girl, “this is a boot-
shop, this a tobacconist’s, this a chemist’s.
I don’t know what this is, I can’t smell
a thing! It must be a bank!” Which
proves the ancient Roman contention that
money doesn’t smell.
*l* ❖
“0.W.W.”: Mention of cheap counter-
lunches (B. 14/12/’55) makes me wonder.
In N.Z. most country-town hotels pro-
vide free counter-lunches. For instance,
in Palmerston North’s 12 city hotels hot
savories, savs., sausages, welsh rabbit,
chips, etc., come on at 5 p.m. daily. The
practice began after rationing ended some
years ago.
❖ ❖ *
“Ex-Ped”: The word “lairy” (B.
28/12/’55) goes back much further than
1925. In its older form “learyand still
older “leery,” it appears in early 19th-
century writings, often in association
with “flash.” In George Borrow’s
Lavengro (1851) “the flash leary coves”
were the cunning rogues and vagabonds,
not gipsies, who used “flash talk” —i.e.,
thieves’ slang. As the gipsies’ attire was
often flashy and they were certainly leary/
the two adjectives were later applied to
them also. Gradually the words became
separated, and either could be used to
do duty for both. At school in 1900 we
prized leary, or lairy hats (the more
tawdry the better), ties and socks for
holiday-wear, and about that time there
were lots of flash spielers working the
races, the big shows and Rufe Naylor’s
sporting events. So it would appear that
the adjective preceded the noun and that
a lair is just a laijy cove or bloke:
Oi’m a chic-a-leary bloke, wif me “one, two,
free”;
Woitechepel is ve village I was born in;
End to ketch me on ve ’op wif me chic-a-leary
pop
You must git up rawver early in ve mornin .
❖ ❖ *>
“Baggyduds”: The Brisbane pub
which handles the bulk of my income is
frequented by a gaggle of working lasses.
Drinking is carried on under the Dutch-
shout system, and, as their swallows
cover a wide range, the steward, after
the initial round, is kept busy reporting
with one or two beers at a time. A new
steward took umbrage at burning up so
much shoe-leather and angrily requested
that an attempt be made to co-ordinate
the drinking. Next day the girls marched
in and each, one posted herself at a
different table. Conversation was carried
on as usual, but reached an all-time-
record crescendo. Only the feminine
sense of fitness could have calculated
such fiendish retaliation.
“Doric”: We were driving through
Devonshire, and at the town of Honiton
the womenfolk of the party simply had
to stop to buy some Honiton lace. But,
alas! we were informed by residents that
the younger generation would not trouble
to learn the art, as they could make more
money with less trouble in many other
ways—and so another skilled British in-
dustry has gone into the discard.
♦♦♦ *x* *
“Poppa”: As I passed in the
tram, a small band of early-morning
pioneers paused in the centre of the huge
prairie of Hyde Park. Their leader, in
a coonskin-cap with a rabbit-skin tail,
drew himself to his full height and sur-
veyed the unfamiliar country. Then, with
a magnificent gesture, he raised his arm
and pointed, and, followed by a pigtailed
Girl of the Golden West and an early-
settler of nine, led the way with long,
purposeful strides towards the distant
horizon, where, in an Oxford-street
blockhouse, Davy Crockett was keeping
hordes of baying savages at bay.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lorna Doone”: I didn’t see “Kate’s”
brass spittoon (B. 28/12/’55) in a pub at
Sorell (Tas.), but I did see a square tin
tray on the floor of that spotlessly-clean
hostelry, bearing the legend “In it —not
at it!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“C. 0.8.”: While on the subject of
hotel-names, what about someone giving
the Continental idea a go, and naming
them after saints? I have seen St.
Brigid’s Hotel in Las Palmas. What an
inspiration that would be to the bhoys
just put from the Ould Sod! There
could be St. Andrew’s and St. George
for the Jocks and the Chooms. In Aix-
en-Province I saw a hotel named the Roy
Rene. I don’t know whether they called
it after Mo, but it will be no good
waiting for him to be canonised.
❖ ❖ ♦♦+
“S.”: Every time an N.S.W. politi-
cian talks about housing he quotes such
impressive figures that I’m tempted to
believe him. But here’s my brother-in-
law just been offered a house by the
Housing Commission seven years after
he applied for it. And since then he’s
been moved (he’s in the bank) first to
Queensland then to the Monaro, so he
can’t have the house anyhow.
♦♦♦ +!♦
“Bo”: The old lady in the next street
is very gentle and very eager not to hurt
anyone’s feelings, so it seemed rather
strange when her grandson came to show
her the spanking new sports-car he had
just bought that she should ask him if
he wouldn’t mind parking it a little way
down the street. Grandson, forthright,
asked whaffor. Then the old lady
explained. The doctor would be coming
any minute to see Grandpa ; he had been
very good to them by being easy with the
bills, and if he saw an expensive-looking
car in the runway belonging to a relative
it mightn’t look too good, especially as
the doctor himself apparently couldn’t
afford anything better than the “old-
fashioned, square-looking car that hed
had for some years. Grandson was still
there when the doc. came in his five-
year-old Rolls-Royce!
“Wusslean”: Despite the replacement
of the ice-box by the fridge (B.
28/12/’55), chilling beer by packing ice
around it is still practicable in some
Melbourne suburbs, where a plastic bag
of small ice-cubes is obtainable from a
slot-machine. Cost, a mere two-bob. A
Melbourne hostess tells me that the
fashionable idea for barbecues is to pack
the bottles and ice-cubes in the garden
wheelbarrow, which can then be pushed*
about as required by the host.
♦> * *
“Short Pants”: My Perfectus English
Dictionary, printed in England, defines
“cricket”: (krik’et) n. a small insect; a
game.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Tim”: My next-door neighbor, a
grand old Australian, passed over the
fence the envelope in which had come his
fortnightly pension-cheque of £B. With
a rueful smile he pointed to the words
on the back: “Help keep prices down.
Buy Bonds. Join Savings Group.” “9 n
four-quid a week,” the old fellow said.
“Why not ask us to buy a sheep-station,
the Crown-jewels or even a slow race-
horse?”
* ❖ ❖
“Postscript”: An applicant who waited
years for a telephone had the satisfac-
tion of getting it when the linesman,
punching a hole through the brick wall
(supposedly below floor-level) for the
cable, knocked several square inches of
plaster off the best-bedroom wall and
drove his drill straight through the back
of the wardrobe.
* ❖
“Mac Hoots”: What with a bushfire
ramping along Coal and Candle Creek,
a king-tide thundering up the beaches
and the lifesavers pulling 300 people out
of the water, Sydney began its New Year
in fully traditional style. What I most
like about this carnival is its recklessness.
With huge white seas bursting into them
over the rocks, the baths and childrens
swimming-pool at Mona Vale were
obviously untenable except for blackfish
or seals, yet hardy teenagers were
frolicking in them, parents took their
young to cling to the rails in the hope
of their being washed off, and it wasnt
until one small boy went sailing up-side-
down out to sea —fortunately to be
fished-up by a passing parent —that the
lifesavers closed the baths and the crowd
reluctantly abandoned them. I’m con-
vinced that if it wasn’t for the lifesavers
300 Sydneysiders would cheerfully
drown themselves every weekend; and i
daresay if the firemen hadn’t barred the
traffic to Coal and Candle Creek another
300 motorists, anxious to view the busn-
fire, would just as cheerfully have
incinerated themselves.
ROUNDABOUT
“A U.S. businessman plans to' supply U.S.
minkfarms with Australian whalemeat.”
When love runs into fancy figures
The moaning that such things entail
Is answered from Antarctic rigors
By the blubber of the whale.
For paradoxes still recur
By which the souls of men aspire
To cover-up with coats of fur
The nakedness of their desire.
And thus it is, when girl meets boy,
And whale-meat's mink’s-meat, that
one thinks
How circuitously men deploy
To pacify the wailing minx!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A STONISHING what the average bloke
craves for when it can’t be had.
Not so long ago it was tobacco, sugar
and tinned-fruit, and motor-cars for the
more ambitious. Met a man here in New
Zealand the other day with more plebeian
tastes. After eight years in Australia with
N.Z.’s diplomatic set-up, he came home
on leave. And what he wanted most was
“pea, pie and pud.” A dinkum highlight
was to find a piecart on its old stand in
Christchurch. Pies and Worcestershire-
sauce have for years been a favored
stand-by in N.Z., and from chats with
railway-chefs and going by the produc-
tion-figures it’s apparent this generation
hasn’t lost the appetite for ’em its parents
had. But why couldn’t Melbourne have
satisfied this expatriate’s yearning for a
tasty morsel? Didn’t he look in the right
place, or aren’t piecarts part of the
scenery over there? —“Avon.”
“Quo Vadis”: A tradition of browsing-
foliage tied to street - awning - posts
(B. 21/12/’55) was also observed in
Queensland bush towns at Christmas
years ago. Business-people would em-
bellish their premises, inside and out, and
the whole town would be a blaze of color
and gaiety. Bung’s Christmas-dinner was
free to all, as much as you could eat and
drink; black or white, rich or poor, all
were welcome. They are vanishing days.
The main adornment of these towns for
Christmas, 1955, was lager-bottles, the
contents of each selling at over 6s. a pop.
In the gutters and streets, on the roads
and outskirts, the dead-marines were
everywhere; mostly smashed or empty,
an odd live one ; thousands of mute
symbols of a costly thirst.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Allan B.”: Pilfering and petty shop-
lifting during the Christmas rush-period
provoked shopkeepers to say: “I’ve never
known anything like it before, it’s ter-
rible”; “This thieving is enough to put
a man out of business”; “Worst ever,
we’ve caught six today and more than
50 in the last few weeks.” A man who
caught three in the act within minutes
found one of his own friends among
them. Tricks with grocery-baskets near
doors, umbrellas, and many-pocketed
overcoats, were used on all kinds of
commodities, from deep-frozen ducks to
jelly - crystals. Some thieves are
obviously well off, others just as ob-
viously hard-up ; some are young, some
old ; but the worst feature is the growing
practice of organised family-pilfering,
generally with a pram to cart away the
stolen goods, little kids of four and five
being taught to steal.
“J.D.W.”: Struck a really practical
Christmas-gift-—half-a-dozen tumblers
from T.E.A.L., complete with the com-
pany’s title and emblem-'—in case, no
doubt, any regular traveller has for-
gotten to take some. But who’ll be first
with a sample of the doings to go into
the tumblers?
♦♦♦ *** +**
“Hist.”: During the war, in the inter-
vals when he was not jumping puddles,
Alan Marshall (B. 21/12/’55) guided
servicemen through a course in freelance
journalism under Army Education Ser-
vice. As an ex-pupil I take this oppor-
tunity of paying tribute to his com-
petence, courtesy and kindness. I have
a new grudge against Fate for contriv-
ing the destruction by fire of his home
and treasure.
♦ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: On the way to New Zea-
land, the flagship Arneb, of the U.S. Ant-
arctic-expedition task-force, discovered
a submarine mountain rising 6600 ft. from
the sea-floor 20,000 ft. down—it is not
saying where, except 1400 miles from
N.Z. During the passage, the party took
continuous soundings from vessels strung
across the Pacific at five-mile intervals.
Uncle Sam is learning everything he can
about the sea-bed for the information of
his atomic submarines.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Tackline S.”: They were stared at
by cinemagoers, they wallflowered a
dance, their elder colleagues, also wearing
British Merchant Navy apprentice uni-
form, put on a no-connection-with-the
firm-next-door expression. The truth un-
folded. Leaving the U.K. well thatched,
several who had never crossed the Line
before had been given the whole works
by Father Neptune, including a head-
shave. Their fast ship had rushed them
to Victoria’s cold Christmas before their
craniums had had a chance to re-sprout.
* ♦♦♦ +j+
“Doynest”: Receiving advice from our
bayside (Melbourne) council that future
garbage-clearances would be on Tues-
days and Fridays, and that in accord-
ance with municipal regulations the
garbage-bin should be left inside the
allotment and not more than 4ft. from
the gate, I dumped the container beside
the front-gate, noticing with unneighborly
delight that everyone else had left his bin
on the nature-strip of the footpath as
usual, and wondering how much they
would be fined for their flagrant dis-
obedience of the council’s edict. On
Friday evening my bin was still there, un-
touched. All the others had been emptied.
I rang the Town Hall; the officer-in-
ch arge of garbage admitted apologetically
that Garbage By-law No. 142 did require
bins to be left inside the fence and not
“Thai's not the swimming-pool — We're sinking!”
. ...
outside, and that by rights mine should
have been the only one Mtended-to in
the street. All the same, he added, it
I were you, I’d leave it out on the nature-
ctrin in future ”
P '
♦ * ❖
“D.J.G.”: Narrow houses in Mel-
bourne (B. 21/12/’55) were probably the
result of sticking to building-practices of
England, where urban land was scarce
“ Here's mine , miss.”
and dear, rather than to lack of space.
In the 1880’s my grandfather built a row
of semi-detached brick cottages in Can-
terbury, seven miles from Melbourne
G.P.0., with frontages of about 18ft.
There couldn’t have been more than half-
a-dozen other dwellings in sight then, but
my worthy ancestor was simply repro-
ducing the type of dwelling considered
suitable for the lower middle-classes in
England at that time; and by current
standards they were good, well-built
homes —still in use, after 70 years or
more, and looking like outlasting many
of the cottages put up during the last
decade.
£+
“Deejaitch”: My father, one of the
last of the old 6ft, 18-stone blacksmiths,
had an old-timer’s dislike of the motor-
car. But to avoid offending an old
friend he agreed to take a lift home in a
pre-World-War-II mechanised im rart
When the vehicle pulled un outsSe the
u nno vbuimc puiitu up outside the
h 'watched him fighting a life-
and-death struggle to get out. He finally
wrenched himself free and walked un to
the house. Immediately he got inside he
shook himself vigorously. “I thought the
damn’ thing was still sticking to me ” he
said. ’
C< E VENTEEN-THOUSAND Boy Scouts
in sundry parts of the Pacific and places
beyond had furbished their equipment
for the Jamboree at Wonga Park, 20
miles from Melbourne, where 1000 acres
of bush and park presented by citizens
awaited them with a highly-efficient
organisation, including an espresso-coffee-
bar and other features of the tough Scout
Jife.
Everything was anticipated except Mel-
bourne’s extraordinary weather. Ten
successive days of rain preceded the
encampment; then there was one fine
day, and on the day of the official open-
ing by the Governor-General, Chief
Commissioner Nichols was fain to advise
parents with cars to keep off and parents
without them to wear gumboots, because
the rain was coming down in torrents and
the 17,000 Scouts from 20 countries, the
United States contingent, which decided
to come only 10 days before to represent
3,000,000 U.S. Scouts, the Malay, Chinese,
Annamite, Fijian and Jap Scouts, the
administration staff numbering 1000, and
the Governor-General were involved in
a common sea of mud.
Visitors, if any, barely got away with
their lives. Obeying the fourth rule of
their order only the Scouts were cheerful,
Samuel Lifuka, Laoi and Taburea Toma
especially so. They come from the
Gilbert and Ellice Islands, whose terrain
is entirely sandy—and they were seeing
mud for the first time.
A Walt Disney cameraman took shots
of the Scouts’ doings for an American
television-film which will be viewed by
80,000,000. The average estimated
pocketmoney of each Scout was £8 to £lO
and their bank-deposits amounted to
£lOO,OOO, mainly to be spent on ice-
cream-sodas at the milk-bars.
Times have changed. When I went
camping, before Boy Scouts were
invented, we had a shilling-a-head in our
pockets, an old military bell-tent
(borrowed), a loaf of bread and a tin of
sardines apiece ; and for the rest we lived
off the land by shooting rabbits and milk-
ing the farmer’s cows when he wasn’t
looking. Although we did mighty deeds,
like exploring old abandoned mine-
shafts, we didn’t get a mention in the
papers; the only publicity we got was
when we were seen by the farmer and
greeted with a charge of buckshot.
The Jamboree has its own highly
efficient medical-staff, surgery and dis-
pensary, but we had to pick the buck-
shot out of each other’s behinds with a
rusty penknife. There was too much
individualism in those days, perhaps ; but
perhaps there is too much regimentation
in these.
MELBN.
RELIEF IN SIGHT
“For sale: small-size violin.” "S. M.
Her cad” ad.
Mother, fatuous, fond, indulgent
(“Willie won't be just a hotel
bellman !”),
Sow her offspring as someone refulgent,
Another Menuhin, Kriesler or Elman.
And so she bought him a little fiddle —
He'd graduate later to Stradivarius —
But the notes he could never hit in the
middle ;
His playing was very contrarious.
Far too full of rich, red corpuscles,
Willie would lift his fiddle chin’ards,
And then, exercising nothing but muscles,
Try to saw through to the damn’
thing’s innards.
Here the irresistible met the immovable,
With Willie superb as an errorist;
But making it distinctly provable
That the small boy can be quite a
terrorist.
But now to the near-by, suffering
neighbors,
Who fled like lightning out for the
cactus
Whenever the violinic labors
Developed into long - drawn - out
practice,
This announcement, beautifully laconic,
Must make ’em feel distinctly blither.
Oh, what a longed-for, overdue tonic !
C And certainly not a sol fa one,
either /)
The horsehair’s been for the last time
teased,
The agony’s over at last for the
G-string.
In fact, it seems to have finally eased
For everyone, and for every b
string.
And on “Emoh Ruo” and “Devonleigh,”
Where Torture had till lately attended,
A peace so blissful, so heavenly
Has now (and they hope for ever)
descended.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Home again, and still busy, knight
Ernest Fisk, pioneer of Australian broad-
casting 40 years ago in Sydney. Former
chairman of Amalgamated Wireless, he
went overseas in 1945 under a seven-year
contract to reorganise a big British elec-
tronics firm. For the past three years he
has globe-trotted as a business- and pro-
duction-consultant, in which capacity he
will now carry on in Sydney. An advo-
cate of the use of solar-energy, y he con-
siders that sunpower might make much
of Australia’s dry interior habitable, and
that if only a small percentage of the
millions now being spent on nuclear- and
other power-development could be di-
verted to research in solar-energy the sun
would be one of the country’s great
power-resources. Hopeful, also, on TV
prospects here.
•• • .
Dropped in on The Bulletin, Major
Edgar Thomas Towner, V.C., a tall,
broad, Longreach (Q.) grazier in “laugh-
ing-side” boots with the badge of the
'Ex-Servicemen’s Legion on his summer-
weight suit. The V.C. is for what he
did on September 1, 1918, during the
attack on Mont St. Quentin (the capture
of which Monash called “the finest single
feat o.f the war”) and the badge indicates
War II service. A subaltern at Mont
St. Quentin, Towner had been commis-
sioned in the field, had been “mentioned”
twice and, four months before, had won
M.C. Intensely interested in Australian
history and geography (Fellow of the
Royal Geographical Society of Australia
DOWN FROM LONGREACH
and member of the Royal Historical
Society of N.S.W.), he knocks about over
a fair swag of Australia, particularly the
inland parts. A brochure of his,
Eyre and Its Tributaries,” was favorably
mentioned on the “Red Page” last
August. Also on the Commonwealth
Advisory Council on Migration, and on
the Ex-Servicemen’s Legion State council.
Current N.S.W. trip is to buy rams.
• •
Leaving for the Argentine after seven
years with Uruwira Minerals, Ltd. (Tan-
ganyika), Russ Ewins, mill-superintendent.
A student of mining-engineering at the
Ballarat School of Mines, he had a
distinguished stretch as an R.A.F. fighter-
pilot before joining the staff of Uruwira
Minerals in 1948.
• •
A bit of history in the recent opening
of the Viscount air-service between Mel-
bourne and Coolangatta (Q.) by the Butler
Air Transport people. In 1932 a very
young pilot chalked-up a record by flying
a pint-size Comper Swift in nine days
from England to Australia. On the way
he lobbed into the main street of the
N.S.W. township of Tooraweena, taxied
to a petrol-bowser and asked for fuel. A
somewhat surprised storekeeper, A. E. H.
Garling, supplied it, wished him God-
speed, and never expected to see him
again. A few years later the spaceman
came once more to Tooraweena —and
married Mr. Garling’s daughter. He was
Arthur Butler, now B.A.T.’s chairman
and managing-director. Author of
Aviation and Its Future Relationship to
Transport in Australia, which won the
Bristol and White-Smith Aviation Prize
for 1946, he still holds the record for the
smallest aircraft to be flown from the
Cold Land to Australia. He was born at
Shirley (N.S.W.).
“N.A.8.”: It’s more than 10 years
since War II ended, but J. T. Gillies, of
Wellington (N.Z.), is still doing good
business selling surplus U.S. Army
lorries. He bought a park of 1225
trucks and also the 18-acre lot they
occupied at suburban Seaview. Gillies
gets the trucks reconditioned in batches
of 50, and has sent them to all parts of
N.Z. and to the Pacific islands. With
nearly 300 still to go, he expects to be s
busy for several years yet.
• •
New Knights:
K.C.M.G.:
Sir Charles Lowe, among other exalted jobs,
can claim to be a Supreme Court Judge (Vic-
toria), to have been Chancellor of Melbourne
University, a commissioner inquiring into Jap
raids on Darwin, a royal commissioner inquir-
ing into the deaths of Ministers in an air-crash,
and the royal commissioner who inquired
closely into Communism in Victoria. In 1953
he could call himself the first Administrator of
the Government in Victoria for 29 years.
K.8.E.:
Lieut.-General Henry Wells, whom Hitler’s
opening salvo found instructing in tactics at
Duntroon. Shortly afterwards his classroom
was enlarged to something the size of the
Western Desert, with Greece, Syria and Alamem
to follow. Further Ninth Div. stoushing in
New Guinea and Borneo, to become, after the
tumult had died, commandant of Duntroon.
Now Chief of the General Staff.
Frederick Beaumont Phillips, Chief Judge of
New Guinea and Papua, his judgeship up there
going back to 1928. With the War I A.A.M.C.
overseas, then Australian Flying Corps
observer, then War II R.A.A.F. group-captain.
When Matupi blew its top in a searing blast that
reduced Rabaul and environs to the likeness of
a grey, shaven skull, the judge’s competence in
organising the evacuation earned him C.B.E.
Malcolm Mclntosh, for years Commis-
sioner of Public Works under Playford in South
Australia, in office foi a record term as a
State Cabinet Minister. Went in first as
M.H.A. for Albert (1921), was the Country
party’s first'leader in S.A.
Claude Dixon Gibb went from Adelaide
School of Mines and University to become a
director of the English firm of C. A. Parsons
and Co., and, mid-War 11, to be appointed
Director-General of Fighting Vehicle Research
and Development for the British Ministry of
Supply. Went to England first in 1922 with
an M.E. degree, taking a job as an ordinary
workman at the Parsons’ turbine outfit at
Newcastle-on-Tyne. A.F.C. pilot in 1914-18.
James Robert McGregor, head of the wool-
exporting firm of the name, one-time chairman
of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers. A
trustee of Sydney’s National Art Gallery.
Richard James Boyer, the A.B.C.’s chairman
for the past decade. Grazier of Western
Queensland, former president of the Graziers’
Federal Council, he has been on a raft of
organisations, covering produce, international
affairs, commerce, information. An A.I.F.
lieutenant on Gallipoli and in France.
Kt.:
George Courts Ligertwood, South Australian
Supreme Court Judge. An inquiring man—in
1949 conducted the New Guinea timber-case
inquiry; in 1942 opened the uniform-tax-law
fight between the Commonwealth and States;
concerned in the Bennett-Singapore inquiry;
and, of course, with the Petrov inquiry in
Sydney. Took time off to serve with the A.1.F.,
War I.
Dr. John Victor Hall Best, one-time president
of the Australian Dental Association. Consult-
ing dental-surgeon to the Army in War 11.
Allen Stanley Brown, for six years secretary
of the Prime Minister’s Department in Can-
berra, and secretary to the Federal Cabinet.
Earlier, Director-General of the Department of
Post-war Reconstruction.
Angus Sinclair Mitchell, with Melbourne
Rotary since 1927, first Australian to be
appointed a president of Rotary International.
Works hard for Boy Scouts, the Y.M.C.A. and
crippled children.
Samuel McMahon Wadham, for close on 30
years in the Chair of Agriculture at Melbourne
University. Born in London, educated at the
Merchant Taylors’ School and Cambridge,
known widely for his work on dairying, wheat
and nutrition. C.5.1.R.0. member.
Francis Palmer Selleck, Melbourne’s First
Cit. for the second term; city-councillor for 16
years. From private to major in War I, M.C.
• •
Chief Commissioner Porter made an
award unique in Victorian police annals
the other day when he presented
Sergeant Arthur Feldtmann, of Swan
Hill, with the Chief Commissioner’s Cer-
tificate for distinguished conduct. The
distinguished conduct came as a bright
idea to Sergeant Feldtmann -when he
noticed one day two aborigines with eight
children living in a humpy of bags and
corrugated-iron on the banks of the
Murray. He went to the mayor, asked him
to raise £5OO, and in three months £l5OO
had poured in. With only £2O spent on
wages, the rest done voluntarily, cottages
and dormitories were erected, complete
with water, electric-light, gardens and a
playground; and the family moved in
with 20 of their native neighbors. The
settlement, said to be the most attractive
in Australia, now rejoices in the title of
the Swan Hill District Native Children’s
Recreation Centre.
Mr. Justice Neal Macrossan, Chief
Justice of Queensland, who died at 66,
was an early Queensland Rhodes Scholar,
one of the first to come from Nudgee
College; a son of John Murtagh Mac-
rossan, whose memory is perpetuated by
the family bequest to Queensland Uni-
versity to found the Macrossan Lecture-
ship, and who was one of the founders of
the Commonwealth Constitution. At
Oxford the late Chief Justice was at
Magdalen College, returning to Queens-
land to practise at the Bar (at which his
brother Hugh was already a leading
light). He was a tall, dark scholar, much
of the type of his father, but with no
leaning towards politics. His interests
were almost entirely legal, though he took
some part in public movements and was
president of the R.A.C.Q. for two years.
He was Warden of Queensland Univer-
sity from 1940, the year in which he went
to the Bench, till his death. He was
twice Acting Chief Justice before he
assumed the office permanently in 1946.
• •
Awarded a C.M.G. in the New Year
Honors, Oliver Holmes Woodward re-
ceived no special notice from the daily
press. Yet he is one of the most distin-
guished and useful of Australians, one of
the country’s greatest metallurgists, a
pioneer in the development of Australian
heavy-industries at the raw-material-pro-
duction end. Born at Tenterfield (N.S.W.)
in 1895, he was educated at Newington
and at the Charters Towers School of
Mines. Went abroad with the Ist Aus-
tralian Tunnelling Corps, A.1.F., in 1915,
and was in charge of the party which
fired the mines in Hill 60 on June 7, 1917,
during the battle of Messines. His war-
time decorations were almost unique—
he is a triple M.C. On his return at the
age of 25 he was appointed plant-super-
intendent of Broken Hill Associated
Smelters, and four years later became
general-superintendent, a job he held for
11 years, before becoming a director and
general-manager of North Broken Hill,
Ltd. President of the Australian Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy in 1940, pre-
sident of the Australian Mines and Metals
Association, 1952-54, he has written
extensively on the lead-zinc industry and
published, for the Australian War
Museum and for private circulation, a
detailed account of some features of the
Great War.
• •
This profile belongs to W. A. Milne,
normally with the Kenya police, now
vacationing in Melbourne from a life of
continuous adventure. Previously with
the Fiji police, he had five years with the
War II R.A.F. before transferring to
Kenya. For the last 18 months he has
had command of the rural district of the
Coast province, with h.-q. at Mombasa.
His province extends from the Tanganyika
border to Italian Somaliland, and exten-
sive safaris are necessary to cover a beat
of that size. Travelling is done by launch,
dhow or Land Rover, through unspoilt
Arab towns along a seaboard seldom
visited by tourists, but full of antiquities
that go back to King Solomon’s mines
ACROSS FROM KENYA
and the Queen of Sheba. Quite different
topographically from Nairobi and the
“White” highlands 300 miles up-country,
where the whites live isolated except for
nocturnal visits by the Mau Mau. He’ll
go back to Nairobi —50 years ago a col-
lection of shacks, now a rapidly-expand-
ing city with many large public and
private buildings. Perhaps returning to
Melbourne, but certainly to somewhere
in Australia, on retirement.
Chairman of the Woolselling Brokers’
Association in Sydney, the world’s largest
woolselling centre, Arthur Stanley
Dunstan’s a son of the Sir Albert Di)n-
stan who figured in many crises and
coalitions in the Victorian House
and was Premier of the State
for the record term of 10| years,
A.S.D. took to wool early, joining New
Zealand Loan after an agricultural edu-
cation which culminated in his being dux
IN WITH WOOL
of the Vic. college. After War II (during
which his staff jobs included that of G.S.O.
Air at Blarney’s h.q.) he moved to Sydney
as manager of Schute, Bell, Badgery,
Lumby when that wool-firm was taken
over by New Zealand Loan. Grey-eyed,
moustached, even-voiced and urbane, he
talked about wool and its multiple aspects
—breeding, classing, technology, market-
ing—with a. clarity and ease which
prompted interviewer to suggest a
Bulletin article on the subject.
• •
Met in Perth, Norman Todd, of Tor-
onto, a 22-year-old Canadian who has,
been hitch-hiking around the world since
September, 1954. The long trail has led
him through the British Isles, most coun-
tries of non-Communist Europe, Pakis-
tan, India, Thailand and Singapore. He
will see the Olympics in Melbourne be-
fore crossing back to Canada.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, E. A. Torbet, who can be
thanked, if anybody can, for the fact that
there have been no disastrous bushfires in
Victoria since the frightful one of 1939. With
the Forests Commission since 1921, as fire-
prevention officer he was mainly responsible for
building-up Victoria’s fire-prevention services
from the catch-as-catch-can business they used
to be to the magnificent organisation of today.
He directed operations during the 1939 inferno.
In Sydney, at 74, Harold Harcourt McNall,
member of Sydney Stock Exchange since 1910.
He was trained as a mining engineer, and
when a young man worked in Broken Hill
mines with G. D. Delprat. Later he engaged
in foreign-exchange operations, and then
became a sharebroker; but his interest in mines
and mining never left him. Tall and rugged in
stature, he was a forceful personality in his
business, and at company-meetings a man to
be reckoned with if things weren’t going right.
In private life he relaxed among his fine show
of orchids at Double Bay.
At Dromana (Vic.), at 55, Bill Blackburn,
lecturer and leading authority on the rules of
Australian Rules football. He had been a
senior V.F.L. umpire for 21 years, and as
official V.F.L. umpires’ coach supervised the
training of his fellow-umpires. He was in
charge of several V.F.L. grand-finals, one being
the famous 1938 final, when Carlton defeated
Collingwood before the Australian-record
football-crowd of 96,834.
At Devonport (N.Z.), at 66, Ray Farrell,
prominent city architect. He was a former
president of the New Zealand Boxing Associa-
tion and of the Auckland Boxing Association.
Swept away when his horse stumbled into a
hole in a Lower Hollyford Valley river, Dave
Gunn, at 68, in the New Zealand back-country
he had loved and made popular for years.
Packing stores to a hut on the tourist-tracks he
operated when the end came, Gunn brought the
beauties and majesty of the Eglinton and
Hollyford Valleys of southern New Zealand to
thousands of tourists; he belonged to the
select group who have plaques erected to them
in their own lifetime. His, on a cairn at
Marian Camp, on the road to Milford Sound,
commemorates his astonishing feat in the
1936-37 holiday-season when an aircraft crashed
at Big Bay, on the West Coast, with five occu-
pants. On foot he travelled from the bay to
Marian Camp in 21 hours, instead of the three
or four days normally taken by experienced
bushmen. Beside his tourist-trade, Gunn ran
about 600 head of cattle at Martins Bay, and
for years he drove mobs to sell in Southland, a
journey of 180 tough miles.
In London, at 68, Rev. Ernest Courtenay
Crosse, master at Christ’s College, Christchurch
(N.Z.), from 1921 till 1930. An M.A. of
Balliol College, Oxford, he tutored at Marl-
borough College till the Kaiser’s war saw him
chaplain of the Seventh Division, in which he
won D.S.O. and M.C. He was author of The
God of Battles and The Defeat of Austria.


JOHN ENDEAN.


ABORIGINALITIES
YOUNG Ted, all for progress, bought
a portable circular-saw and was
showing such results with it that his old-
bushman Dad reluctantly agreed to give
the newfangled thing a go. Gingerly the
old chap ripped a couple of branches off
a felled tree, and was beginning to lose
his expression of strained concentration
when a March-fly fastened on his arm.
He put the saw down hastily to swipe,
and next instant, running backwards
from a bucking, revving, dirt-scattering
menace, he fell over and missed having a
foot severed by exactly the thickness of
a sole —the saw having ripped off the
heel of his boot. Ted fried to bring
about a reconciliation between man and
machine. “But you had five stitches in
your foot from an axe-cut once,” he
pointed out. “And what about the time
you slipped and ripped your hand open
on the old crosscut?” The old man
remained unmoved. “Different thing,” he
growled. “They was accidents —but that
blasted thing chased me to do it!” —
“Villefair.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: There can be penalties
attached to killing a snake in Victoria.
A truck was.crossing an intersection,
and the driver saw Joe. He swung his
vehicle in Joe’s direction ; then, when he
thought he had got across him, observed
the correct technique for the job —he
braked sharply. There was a tremendous
crash —the truck crashed into by a fol-
lowing truck. Driver No. 1 subsequently
fined 20s. in the Mildura court for not
putting his hand out. Joe got off scot-
free.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Westralia’s Fisheries
Department is out to prove that oysters
can be produced on a commercial scale
at Shark Bay, 600 miles north of
Fremantle, and as a start has placed
posts in the sea, supporting slats on
which it’s hoped the oyster-larvas can
be trapped and then taken to sheltered
spots to grow. Oysters are thereabouts
in thousands, but left to themselves they
tend to cluster too closely together in
certain spots, and the limited food keeps
their weight down ; where they’re scarce,
anywhere along that coast, they’re of
tiptop size and flavor. There’s one dis-
ability that can’t be overcome. Growing
in an ocean rich in calcium, the shells
are extra-hard—and hard to open. But
that shouldn’t deter a real oyster-lover.
* * * *
“Blubber”: A “herd of whales” was
recently reported stranded in Blackman’s
Bay (Tas.). Whales, of the pilot variety,
do occasionally become stranded, but
mostly this occurs when man drives them
ashore. The Tassie ones were more pro-
bably the dolphin known as the False
Killer ( Pseudorca crassidens ). The False
Killer, a deep-water dolphin, frequently
strands accidentally when it invades
shoal-water looking for food. Schools of
up to 300 have come ashore on beaches
in various parts of both hemispheres.
The “Scottish Naturalist,” reporting on
such a phenomenon some years ago,
noted that in each case of stranding there
has been similarity in littoral-
characteristic —the shore extending into
the sea as a wide expanse of mud and
sand; with only about 2ft. of water at
high tide. On becoming stranded the
False Killer struggles so violently it
embeds itself firmly in the sand.
* * * *
“Harbel”: The owner of the house we
were renovating mentioned mournfully
that the snails, despite his use of sundry
“Keep him distracted , Kath , while I go and get the farmer!”
exterminators, were still laying waste
his treasured garden. At knock-off
Chips handed over a paper-bag full of
something with an obvious sawdust
base; his instructions were to ring each
plant with the preparation. In the morn-
ing a delighted owner was waiting with
22 dead snails and glad tidings: not
a plant touched ; would it be asking too
much for the formula? Chips obliged—
plain sawdust. A snail couldn’t cross
it; the sharp particles stuck to the slime,
irritated the flesh, and prevented the
snail retracting into the shell. Unable
to move or retreat into its refuge, the
pest died. “But,” grinned old Chips,
“it was no use telling you to put down
plain sawdust —you wouldn’t’ve tried it;
it was too simple.”
* * * *
“Saaedi”: “Phil Anthus” (B. 7/12/’55)
has an abundance of authoritative and
popular support for his contention that
“every Australian bower-bird is a dis-
tinctly talented mocker,” but I’ll be a
nark and disagree. Some bower-birds
are good mimics within a limited range,
some mediocre; but 25 years of close
contact with the spotted variety—
probably the most proficient of the bunch
—convinces me that in certain respects
he’s a champion kidder. Many of his
so-called imitations sound to me like
near-misses, or else “natural” calls
vaguely reminiscent of something or
other. It was, of course, the bushmen
—no mean leg-pullers—who first boosted
to the skies this fellow’s reputation as
a mimic. All good fun, particularly if
the newchum was listening with mouth
agape, but not exactly evidence. The
bower-bird needs neither tall tales nor
flattery; in his own well-established
right he is one of the world’s wonders.
♦ * * *
“Culmina”: In his cricket-book
Australia 55 Alan Ross digresses to dis-
cuss surfing on Sydney beaches. “The
technique,” he says, “is simple in ex-
pression, elaborate in its subtle harness-
ing for the body to racing air. For,
of course, it is only the air behind the
wave, not the water itself, that moves.”
The surfer comes in, he adds, “propelled
by the air, and supported by the wave.”
This is all new to me, a surfer of long
practice. Out in the ocean, I’ve always
understood, even in a strong blow each
molecule of water presses against its
neighbor but remains more-or-less in the
one spot; a particular drop of water
doesn’t go from middle of the ocean to
shore, even if there is the illusion in a
wind of movement. But a wave break-
ing near the shore is different; the water
in the wave, like water running down a
gutter, actually does move, does travel
to the beach. Consequently it’s the wave,
not the air, which propels the surfer as
he “shoots.”
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Yes, a bird can manage
without its tail-feathers (B. 14/12/’55),
even in raising a family. A gill-bird hen
had some obscure complaint that caused
her tail-feathers to fall out every year
prior to nesting. Consequently her flight
became clumsy and erratic. Insects on
the wing easily evaded her, as she was
incapable of rapid turns and twists.
However, she did the bulk of the baby-
sitting and while her mate prospected
distant trees for food she worked those
near at hand. She stood her ground and
fought effectively in defence of her babes
when currawongs came raiding. Broods
were successfully raised in three succes-
sive years under these difficult condi-
tions. So far as could be seen the same
cock stayed by her side throughout—
evidently he had taken her for better or
for worse.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Most Victorian ramblers
recognise the single pastel-blue flower of
the sundew, but few are aware that its
“You wont tell the other kids that I'm romantic , will y ', Alison?
flat, ground-hugging leaves reveal the
plant has carnivorous tastes. Myriads of
tiny tubular spikes cover each leaf, and
these are tipped with a sticky secretion
which is a powerful dissolvent, with the
dual.role of trapping insects and at the
same time extracting nitrogenous matter
from the victims’ bodies. Found mainly
in the Wimmera, the plant lives in buck-
shot and gravel surfaces; hence its need
to supplement bare rations available from
the earth.
* * * #
“Jas”: The cuckoo’s /role of para-
site is not always a sinecure. A pair of
koels —big birds with a loud cooee-call—
arrive in my area from the north in Sep-
tember and remain to breed. Avian
population of this hill mostly consists of
currawongs, peewees, butcher-birds, mag-
pies and gill-birds. No sissies in that
mob, with the ferocious and suspicious
honeyeater right out of character in the
role of sucker. From the time he arrives
until breeding ends the showy
bluish-black male cuckoo
spends much of his time in
flight with a posse of feath-
ered furies on his tail. Actu-
ally it is his mission to court
publicity and pursuit. Imme-
diately the pair are attacked
he flies off calling loudly.
Natural, then, for all hands
to join in the tally-ho, and
nice work for the inconspicu-
ous hen cuckoo. But it does
seem absurd that birds should
associate cuckoos with harm,
yet fail to recognise the actual
perpetrator of mischief. In
the case of the koel this
myopia is particularly odd,
for this is our only cuckoo to
have sexes utterly unlike in
appearance.
r’S 6 a.m. and 70 degrees F. in the
little inland Queensland sheep-and-
cattle town.
Rows of small lumpy clouds hide be-
hind the bushfire smoke-haze on the hori-
zon, and the sky above is a greyish-blue.
Hawks flap along at low altitude in
tired morning reconnaissance, and a pair
of wagtails twitter a cheerful roundelay.
Topknot-pigeons and peewees are in
flight, and a raucous radio tunes-up in
readiness to broadcast the doleful “news.”
Mobs of early-morning foraging goats
avidly seek the overnight-fallen beans
from the Mexican fodder-trees, and a
lone woman in a neat floral dress hangs
out the break-of-day wash.
Heat comes quickly; you sweat with
little exertion. The big house-cat seeks
coolness between the rows of home-
grown corn. It’s 100-in-the-shade at 9.30,
and a fitful nor’-westerly blows, but the
sun is a white-hot crucible.
The breeze freshens, but the mercury
still rises. At 110 the tap-water from the
artesian-supply is too hot to handle, but
in the thin canvas-waterbags is cold and
refreshing.
Noon, and white floaters of cloud fleck
the sky. But it’s on now. At 1-o’clock
the reading is 114 and the cloud-spread
heavier. Indoors, chairs and tables are
hot to the touch, and you sweat freely
under the persuasion of the reflected heat
from the iron-roofed dwellings.
Electric-fridges break-down under the
stress; pubs do a roaring beer-trade.
At 3 p.m. the maximum shade-temp,
is 120; incredible youth passes along the
dusty street in cool white frocks, swing-
ing tennis-racquets.
The sky is almost covered with huge
white mushroom-clouds, darkly broken
with distant rain-squalls. Far away up,
tiny pinpoints of silhouette against the
cloud, hawks glide effortlessly.
The heat drops reluctantly—llo at
4.30 —and the overhead clouds begin to
disperse; no rain here today. The air
is still and shadows lengthen ; the birds
of the bush, beaks open and wings spread,
come to the garden-pond for an evening
drink. At 7 p.m. the sinking sun colors
the remaining low-down clouds in vivid
gold, pink and blue ; in this open country
there’ll be twilight for an hour yet.
Presently, a little crescent moon,
cradling the evening-star, outlines the last
disappearing fringes of black cloud. It’s
still 90 degrees at 10 p.m., but a light
breeze has sprung up outside. It cools
quickly now in this land of extremes;
the night will be pleasant; you’ll want
blankets before early morning.
The sky is lightening at 4 a.m., and
the faint wind now blows from the south,
laden with the moist, earthy smell of, far-
away rain-scuds. But in half-an-hour the
rays of a molten sun will show, and the
early-morning forecast for western divi-
sions will be: “Fine and hot.”
There’ll be no relief; until it rains .. .
QUO VADIS.
GOLD TO WIN
What is the search for gold in the ground
never sold,
seldom found?
It’s the sweat and the fear,
the hunger, the beer
that holds in a dream
its sparkle and gleam
quenching a thirst,
dry as cant,
as dying plant,
bursting like cyclonic rain
to drown a taste to mope,
giving hope,
not strength, to face again
the unrewarding track,
that holds the pick, the spade, the pack,
the dust and flies,
heat-faded skies,
the dark confines of the shaft —
and the mate who laughed.
It is to live like mulga-growth,
roots long to find a living spring
deep in the strength that’s loath
to be where creepers cling
and limbs are cut
like freedom in a rut.
It is to have place and eyes to see
sun’s colored ecstasy
changing as great fold on fold
rolls red to untouched gold;
it is to hear the bird,
the unsaid pure word
the soft ’roo stares . . .
to feel protection in a lizard’s skin,
to face the drought all bears . . .
This is gold to win.
W.A.
OLIVE PELL.


HALT
UNK[?]HoTE
“Nedrium”: I’ll wager a dozen rough-
leaf pines that many Northerners cracked
a grin when they came on “Nordbo” (B.
30/11/ ’55) referring to Cairns as a “city
of pleasant people and beautiful beaches ”
“Pleasant people,” I’ll let pass. But
“beautiful beaches”! Where? Cairns
has no beach and not dven a decent
swimming-pool, only huge stretches of
unsightly mudflats bared at low-water:
they shock shipload after shipload of
starry-eyed southern tourists. There are
some stretches of sand a dozen or so
miles to the north and over on Green
Island, but they are nothing to rave
about. And what’s a beach when there’s
no surf?
*** * '
“Oida”: “North Easterner” (B.
21/12/’55) will find a skeleton-suit
referred to by Dickens in at least two
places. Nicholas Nickleby has this on the
appearance of Smike:
Although he could not have been less
than eighteen or nineteen years old, and
was tall for that age, he wore a skeleton
suit such as is usually put upon very little
boys.
The Shorter Oxford Dictionary, defining
skeleton-suit, quotes “a patched and
much soiled skeleton suit: one of those
straight blue cloth cases in which small
boys used to be confined.”
* * * *
“Kelly”: I mentioned to my friend Bill
the newspaper story of the Cooktown
(Q.) nurse who wandered from her home
and was, local police suspected, taken
by one of the crocodiles that infest thfe
Endeavor River (“a breeding-ground”)
and swamps around the town. Bill, who’d
knocked around the area, wouldn’t have
it. “I’ve swum in the Endeavor River,”
he said, “and the frightened little crocs,
there wouldn’t be game to get close
enough to bite. They only grow to five-
feet!”
* * * *
“Spin”: Fishing for tailor (correct
spelling) off-shore along the sou’-Westra-
lian coast, I’ve found that they frequent
the areas just beyond the first line of
breakers, and I think I know why. Most
of what I’ve found in them consists of
very small shellfish, often minute oysters,
obviously dislodged from the rocks each
time a big wave breaks. Presumably the
warmth of the fish’s stomach opens the
shells, which are either absorbed in some
Way or disintegrated and expelled. Hence,
the place to catch these fish is just sea-
ward of the curling wave, and it’s a
mighty dangerous place for a small boat.
Periodically, even in the calmest sea, a
series of three waves comes in, and every
now and again those waves are whoppers.
Fishermen call them “sneakers,” and the
name’s apt —an inexperienced boatman
would say they came from nowhere.
That’s not quite right—you can see them
coming 300yds. away if you know what
to look for, and I’ve found that the
series of three waves comes in very regu-
lar intervals of about 10 minutes. Our
system is to wait for them, get in closer
and fish for a few minutes, then stand
off while the next three break. Strenuous,
but you get plenty fish.
* * * *
“Cisticola”: The ghost of Colonel
David Collins, O.C. Victoria’s first settle-
ment, must be seriously disturbed by
reports of the shooting of harmless
native-birds, particularly by European
migrants. Collins himself became in
some degree an admirer of Australia’s
fauna in his early days at Sydney; on
November 30, 1803. he caused to be
issued at his Port Phillip settlement
General and Garrison Orders that con-
tained this proclamation:
It having been mentioned to the Lieut.-
Governor that many of the people, not
adverting to the consequences, are daily
bringing into the encampment birds’ nests
containing either eggs or young unfledged
birds, he thinks it necessary' to prohibit a
practice at once so cruel and destructive.
Any person offending against this order will
be punished.
At a guess, one would say that the man
who complained to Collins about the
“cruel and destructive” practice of nest-
robbing was Lieut. J. H. Tuckey, who in
1805 published a book containing many
useful notes on the feathered inhabitants
of the area. Anyway, the main point is
that the Collins order —the first bird-
“We better make this the last hundred up, Bill.”
protection mandate issued in Australia —
appears to have been completely effective.
No one thought it worth while to loot
the nest of a wagtail or a robin when the
penalty was likely to be a liberal helping
of lashes on the bare pelt.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: Another artistic bloomer (B.
7/12/’55). One of the Scottish bank-
notes (there are eight different types of
quid-notes in Scotland) has a rural scene
on the back, showing a paddock of
neatly stooked sheaves —all conspicu-
ously hand-tied. Cutting the crop is a
modem binder.
* * * *.
“Brick E.”: To my surprise the cocky
didn’t want the pigsty floor to be of con-
crete, but paved with bricks loosely laid
in sand—as a rat-destroyer. “Your idea
is that you could always pull up a few
bricks to get at a rats’ nest, whereas you
would have to break a hole in concrete,
eh?” I suggested. “No,” he replied. “If
a rat burrows under a brick floor the
sand seeps away, leaving the bricks sus-
pended. A pig is a pretty heavy animal;
when it walks on the undermined spot the
brick goes down and there is a fair chance
of squashing the whole nest of rats.” Not
so very different from the abo. method
of catching rabbit-bandicoots, which,
unlike any of the orthodox bandies, dig
a burrow. In cold weather the animal
does not retreat to the full extent of the
tunnel, but sleeps within about 18in. of
the mouth. The abo. hunter jumps on the
burrow at the estimated spot, either
killing the quarry or blocking its escape.
* * * *
“Papalangi”: Captain Cook’s spruce-
beer (B. 21/12/’55), which he improved
by adding a quantity of the tea-plant, has
a name which is part-translation and part-
adaptation from the German. The brew
is made from the sprouts, or young
shoots, of the spruce-fir ( Sprossenfichte —
i.e., “sprouts-fir”) and the German name
Sprossenbier means “sprouts-beer.” The
sprouts, boiled with sugar or molasses
and fermented with yeast, produced “an
agreeable and wholesome beverage, useful
as an antiscorbutic" So the little spruce-
sprout is another feather in the cap of'
that most humane of 18th-century sea-
captains, who, by his successful fight
against scurvy, earned for British seamen
of the next century the contemptuous
Yankee epithet “blanky lime-juicers.”
They could take it !
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Shooting in the green
mountains of Fox Ground, South Coast
(N.S.W ),T lined up a bunny on the oppo-
site side of a deep, narrow gorge. “Bet
you shoot short,” said my mate. I
did. The range was a bare 60yds., and I
was using an accurate .22. Mate reckoned
anybody taking a normal sight across a
similar gorge would always shoot short.
I maintained that if the gorge affected
the shot at all, the explanation could only
be that an up-draught lifted the bullet.
So I fired at a flaw on a tree-trunk —and
hit beneath it. Another attempt con-
vinced me. Now I’m trying to find a
logical reason why. A magnetic pull
scarcely seems feasible—especially in so
short a range. An authority on shooting,
Zahe Grey contended that when shoot-
ing downhill the tendency is to overshoot,
but gave no explanation. Possibly some
slight diffraction in the atmosphere
causes the shooter to take an incorrect
sight when aiming downhill; in which
case the open space in the gully could
possibly do something similar, with the
reverse effect.
ECHIDNA
Echidna, little porcupine, went walking,
Hump-backed, with little piggy snout held low,
Knowing, no doubt, just where he wished to go;
At dawn, tiptoe, across the clearing stalking,
And, in Echidnic, muttering and talking,
And chuckling to himself for all I know.
My inexperienced puppy found him so
And pounced, alternately charging and balking
In juvenile canine bewilderment,
Barking and growling murderous intent.
But Porky rolled, and head tucked under tail,
Taught him such tactics were of no avail:
Presenting Pup a prickly proposition
Of non-aggressive, passive opposition.
N.S.W. HUI TE RANGIORA.
* * * *
OUR garden boasts a magnificent
liquidambar—its branches cover
about a third of a not-so-small block. In
summer its large leaves make welcome
shade; in autumn it breaks forth in a
pageant of purple, scarlet and gold, while
in winter the graceful silver tracery of
trunk and, boughs is,a constant source of
delight.
There’s one drawback —it certainly
knows how to shed leaves! For the past
two or three years we’ve had to hire a
man to cart them away in his truck.
Most of the birdlife of the place
centres on this tree —butcher-birds, sol-
dier-birds, gill-birds, jackasses, curra-
wongs, magpies, doves, pigeons and, at
night, mopokes all treat it as their forum
or as a rostrum from which they try-out
their varying vocal effects.
I remember bringing it home in the
train from the florist’s. It stood barely
9in. high in its pot; now it has pushed
itself up somewhere between 60ft. and
80ft.
KENYAS.
TRAFFIC-JAM
“'VT'OU want to go to Grafton!” said
A the man from Glen Innes. “You
must have a pretty good reason: nobody
tackles that road for fun.”
“I just want to look at the Clarence
River. You see, I learnt to swim in it
. . .” I tried to explain. But he was not
a nostalgic type, it seemed, for he hastily
downed his middy and bade me good-bye.
I think he thought I deserved what
was coming to me.
My venerable motorbike was soon
coughing its way towards Grafton at
60 m.p.h. Good surface. Bitumen.
After all, the map called it a main high-
way. At this rate I should soon bite
off the 100-odd miles.
Abruptly the bitumen was replaced
with a 4in.-layer of white gravel, loosely
applied to what seemed to be a founda-
tion of uncut tombstones. On this, even
a speed of 8 m.p.h. seemed reckless.
Then, abruptly, with Luna Park aban-
don, the road plunged over a cliff. Dis-
tracted by howls of shock from the gear-
box, I managed to remember that Glen
Innes vies for height with Mt. Kosciusko
itself. And the road seemed hell-bent
on reaching sea-level in the most arbi-
trary of all possible ways.
On a near-vertical surface, gravel-
coated, and confronted with arpeggios of
hairpin-bends, a motorbike becomes an
even more chancy vehicle than usual: the
most gingerly braking spawns a skid
which curdles the liver.
Now, there are run-of-the-mill moun-
tain-roads which are bounded merely by
an abyss on the one side, and by an
implacable skyscraper of a cliff on the
other. Your commercial-traveller will
take these with a schooner of beer in
one hand; but this road was nudged by
an abyss on both sides at once, perform-
ing a Highland-fling down a razorback.
This had a most unsettling effect.
One corner (or contortion) was even
fortified with a double-rank of sawn-off
telegraph-poles: a sort of Alpine stable-
door —shut after the horse (-power) had
gone.
On the Cresta run, at St. Moritz,
sleighers can see from one of the bends
a cluster of crosses in the valley so far
below: these mark the graves of those
who had taken that bend just a shade too
fast.
I slithered down the mountain like a
neurotic snail. It took an hour. At the
bottom the road vanished under a creek,
then blandly shot skyward and repeated
the whole thing with murderous
variations.
The peculiar absence of human life
began to puzzle me. There was no traffic
on the road (understandable) and not a
living thing stirred beside it. An accident
would lead to what was left being found
years later by a venturesome prospector
for uranium . . . There was that sense of
being quite divorced from the healthy-
world which pervades Wuthering Heights .
(Had they been on the market at the time,
Heathcliff, not quite a gentleman, would
surely have owned a ferocious motor-
bike).
Petrol! In this wilderness? As well
hope to find a shop selling pink cham-
pagne. The lonely day blistered on, and
after four more hours I was sure that the
tank contained a dessertspoon of gas at
the most.
In the middle of what looked like
central New Guinea, I came to a shop
at \ last. From just where the owner
scraped-up his customers baffled me.
Perhaps they were hiding behind the
mountains.
I snorted to a halt beside an elderly
bowser and glared at it with suspicion.
No. Not a drop of petrol could have
passed its lips since the heyday of the
“T”-model Ford.
However, the bowser still had a gurgle
left in it, and I rested on the veranda
swallowing A.P.C.s (our national dish)
for the searing headache engendered by
the strain of keeping motorbike, body
and soul united.
From out of the surrounding nowhere
there appeared an incredibly spruce
aborigine. He was Persil black, so to
speak. As we chatted, I asked him his
opinion of the road.
“It’s easier driving on this road at
night,” he said.
I floundered insanely in search of a
polite reply. “Ah,” I said triumphantly,
“the white surface. You mean it shows
up better?”
He said: “Not only that. There’s less
traffic.”
GRAHAM PHILLIPS.


Cap* forit
QUEENSLAND
'
\
★
★*
NEW SOUTH WALES
■k
v/ctorTa _ V
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA* LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Knnpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Rivenna:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman) ;
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; The Hon. Sir Henry
Manning, K.8.E., Q.C.. M.L.C.; Bertram J. F. Wright, M.B.E.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. L.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman):
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT 23
LYSACHT
10,000 GAL.
♦ *
water tanks
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
ORB
TALL
14' 4" diam.
10' 7" high
SI
SQUAT
19' 1" diam.
6' 5" high
II
PRICES
14'4" Dia. I9T* Dia.
I 07" High 6'5" High
BASIC UNIT comprising wall
sheets, jointing material, bolts,
nuts and washers, outlet fitting
and special tools
£ll4 £9O
OPTIONAL EXTRAS
STEEL BASE comprising b««
sheets, solder, sludge outlet
fitting and special tools
£3B £56
CONCRETE BASE by cement-
penetrant method. All materials
supplied except cement, sand
and aggregate —............
£43 £67
Overflow unit available at slight extra cost.
OTHER LYSAGsHT
WATER TANKS
25,000 Gallons —£295
50,000 „ —£4ls
75,000 ~ —£s2o
100,000 ~ —£s9o
Prices F.O.R.
Newcastle
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) m. LTD., IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The 1956 Sharemarket
/''VPENING of the Australian
sharemarkets for 1956
brought no significant trend;
prices were firm, but turnovers
were low for the first week’s
dealings.
Nevertheless it promises to be
a year of changing fortunes, in
industry and on ’Change.
Interim dividends about to be
declared by most established
companies will cause some price-
readjustments on ’Change ; soon
after that financial conditions
may have an effect on market
support; the Federal Govern-
ment’s economic policy may
cause some concern; and after
June 30 reports on the full year’s
trading are bound to show vary-
ing features. There will be many
“downs” among the “ups.” •
It will be another year in
which investments must be
picked very carefully.
Waltons and Cox Bros.
WALTONS - SEARS, LTD.,
has withdrawn its offer to
the ord. shareholders in Cox
Bros. (Aust.), Ltd., fewer than
the minimum 75 p.c. of Cox
shareholders having agreed to
accept the offer. Applications
already received will not be
accepted.
The offer, as details published
previously will indicate, was not
glamorous on the face of it, and
the time allowed for cogitation
was short. It did, indeed, pro-
duce a loud caterwauling from
Sir Frank Richardson, chairman
of Cox Bros., who, though long
discussions had preceded the
offer, showed almost a personal
resentment of what he termed
“blitzkrieg” methods used by
Waltons-Sears in order to achieve
their possessive objective within
two weeks. This included the
issue of persuasive circulars to
14,000 Cox Bros, shareholders
and allegations of “house-to-
house canvassing” (denied by
Waltons, who say not more than
18 shareholders were approached
personally).
Apparently still a little shaken
by the whole episode, on January
4 Sir Frank was demanding,
through the medium of expensive
advertising, amendment of com-
pany legislation to compel take-
over bidders to make their offer
only through the board of
directors of the company attract-
ing their attention. The board
then to notify the Stock Ex-
change, and later to submit its
recommendations or comments
to shareholders. The take-over
man “should be required to
await the directors’ communi-
cation before taking any further
steps.”
Victorian Chief - Secretary
Rylah has said he will ask the
Crown Solicitor to examine the
Richardson suggestion. It cer-
tainly should be considered very
thoroughly before any precipitate
action is taken. Shareholders
should not be denied information
of a constitutional nature while
the board is chewing it over, and
there is little inherently wrong
with the open-market system of
doing a deal when other methods
fail.
Cox Bros, shareholders have
rejected the Waltons-Sears offer
without any of the legislative in-
hibitions suggested by Sir Frank
Richardson, and they would
quite likely have done so anyway.
The fortunes of each com-
pany will henceforth be watched
with interest. Both manage-
ments have a good deal to live
up to in the assessments they
made of their respective com-
panies during the “blitzkrieg.”
Farmer and Co.
FORMATION of a holding
-*• co., Farmers (Holdings),
Ltd., is the upshot of delibera-
tions by the board of Farmer and
Co., Ltd., under influence of
take-over possibilities.
Three new £1 ords. in the new
co. will be issued for each old
one.
Four 7 p.c. prefs. will be
offered in exchange for three of
each class of present pref.
shares, whether now carrying
6 p.c. or 7 p.c. It seems a
reasonable offer, but by no means
an exciting one.
A 10 p.c. div. on the new ord.
capital (which will rise from
£400,000 in the old co. to
£1,200,000 in the new) is fore-
cast. Pref. capital in the new co.
will be £BOO,OOO, against
£600,000 in the old.
In past years only pref.-share-
holders on the London register
were paid in sterling (the old co.
was registered in London). It
has been decided that all pref.-
divs. should have been paid in
sterling, and the difference back
to 1931 will be made up to
present holders in Australia,
which will call for about
£168,000.
Present pref. shares carry one
vote per share without restric-
tion. The new pref. voting-rights
will be restricted to issues where
divs. are in arrears or abrogation
of their rights is being con-
sidered.
The board discloses that the
recent acquisition of Way’s,
next-door in Pitt-street, cost
£662,904, of which £450,000 was
financed on mortgage.
The £1 old Farmers ords. shot
up to £6 following the announce-
ment of the reconstruction
details. They would show a yield
of 5 p.c. on the basis of the new
capitalisation and proposed
dividend.
In future all dividends will be
declared in Australian currency.
The entire proposal is subject to
approval by 90 p.c. of share-
holders.
Wilkatana, S.A.
T}ROM L. Owen: The report
" that an oil - impregnated
limestone and associated rocksalt
was encountered in the Santos
co.’s Wilkatana well in South
Australia at the 574ft.-to-590ft.
horizon and below is encourag-
ing insofar as it shows that con-
ditions favorable to the genera-
tion of petroleum have occurred
somewhere within the strati-
graphic column underlying the
Wilkatana region.
In considering the possible
commercial aspects of the strike,
however, much more information
has to be available as to the
geological history of the geo-
logical province in which the
well was sunk.
The description of the oil as
“heavy, greasy and greenish-
black” immediately suggests a
material similar to that produced
from Rough Range No. 1 well
and its offset; the analysis made
by the South Australian Depart-
ment of Mines confirms that
suggestion. The S.A. analytical
report states:
The sample, composed of saline
dolomitic mudstone, and marked
577 ft. to 579 ft., contains an oily
material, mineral in origin, and
comprises a semi-solid mineral wax
from which liquid oil has pre-
sumably disappeared. It is essen-
tially a paraffin-wax residue.
Accepting, therefore, the
description (long ago used in
these columns to describe the
Rough Range oil), specifying it
“Jeepers, honey -I jest cant figure you out !"
as a migrated crude-oil, micro-
filtered by passage through
restricted channels and subse-
quently inspissated, the necessity
will be realised —as it has been at
Rough Range of a complete
re-evaluation of the geological
information and of the methods
of geophysical interpretation.
In turn, this will require
detailed data as to the geological
history of the region, particu-
larly with reference to the periods
both of marine invasion and of
dry-land intervals as well as to
the types, trends, geological ages
and sequence of the several
systems of faulting.
Incidentally, the application
of such data to oil-finding is a
mental process far removed
from the “normal” development
technique.
Piecework
SPEAKING from Vienna on
January 2, U.S. corre-
spondent Benjamin West made
some interesting comments on
piecework behind the Iron
Curtain.
“The piecework sys t e m,”
Karl Marx wrote a century ago,
“takes the place of the slave-
driver’s whip and the overseer’s
book of penalties.”
From its early days, however
(said West), the Soviet Union
has ignored Marx’s pronounce-
ment and paid large numbers of
its workers on a piecework
rather than an hourly basis.
Today the piecework system is
the foundation of the industrial
speed-up which is being pressed
throughout the Soviet orbit.
The concept of hourly wages
is under fire by Communist
spokesmen, and a campaign is
under way for a wider utilisation
of piecework wage-rates. This
drive is being spurred in the
satellites by the Government-
organised and -controlled trade-
unions.
“The trade-unions,” says a
typical article in the “Corninform
{Continued on next page)


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN G. LEWIS (Chairman). V F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
In 5 Years
Your £5OO must grow to £6lB'ls'
IN THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT GUARANTEES
THIS HIGH RETURN
Your Money earns 4}% per annum for either 5 or 10 years,
at your option, from this Authorised Trustee Investment.
Your Interest is payable half-yearly, direct to your bank
account if you wish, free of exchange.
4
Your Security is complete—both principal and interest are
unconditionally guaranteed by the New South Wales
Government.
Your Investment is quickly arranged at any Commonwealth
Trading Bank, through a Stockbroker or at the Sydney Water
Board offices.
If you hold securities in Loan No. 39 (matured Ist January,
1956), conversion to the new Loan gains you £4/15/- per cent,
instead of £3/11/3 per cent, from Ist January, as well as
ensuring uninterrupted interest payments.
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Loan No. 143 will close not later
than 23rd January , 1956.
WBL9-56
Journal,” the international
policy-organ of the Communist
party, “are working for the more
extensive introduction of piece-
rates, which makes it possible to
heighten the interest of the
workers in the results of their
labor. The piece-rate system
stimulates fuller use of
machinery, better organisation of
labor, and, in consequence,
higher labor productivity.”
Sharp increases in productivity
are also being sought under the
innocent-appearing banner of
“Socialist competition.”
Under “Socialist competition,”
Communist enterprises, groups of
workers and individual workers
pledge to exceed production-
quotas, or “norms,” which
generally are already quite high.
Special “Socialist competitions”
are called on the slightest pre-
text: in honor of Communist
anniversaries, one-party elec-
tions, and Communist-party con-
gresses. The twentieth congress
of the party in the U.S.S.R. is, for
example, being used as the
excuse for a new “Socialist com-
petition” supposedly organised to
show the “boundless love” of the
workers for Communism.
The importance of “Socialist
competition” to progress toward
“building Communism” was
emphasised by Soviet Premier
Bulganin in a report to a plenary
session of the Party Central
Committee on July 4, 1955.
“Socialist competition,” said
Bulganin, “is a mighty lever for
raising productivity of labor.”
“Competition under Social-
ism,” the Premier continued, “is
that constantly active force
which drives forward the tech-
nical standard and organisation
of production, breaks old norms,
and advances new progressive
norms. It is essential for develop-
ment of Socialist competition on
a wider scale.”
At the same time, Bulganin
declared that “for many workers,
especially those paid by the hour,
higher payments are fixed than
is justified by the work done.”
He said it was imperative that
a system of payment for labor
be established for “all categories
of industrial workers” to enable
every worker to “clearly see the
connection between the produc-
tivity of his labor and his wages.”
Bulganin’s report has had its
effect not only in the U.S.S.R.,
says West, but, as was to be
expected, in the satellites as well.
In Rumania, for example,
workers are being told by
Stelian Moraru, Deputy-chair-
man of the Rumanian “Central
Council of Trade-Unions,” that
the piecework system is intended
to stimulate “The creative
initiative of the working-people
in accordance with the
quantity and quality of work
done.”
Londod Airmail.
From Herbert Holman
“/CULTURE” (meaning any-
thing of a serious nature,
whether orchestral music, discus-
sions or documentaries) is prov-
ing a liability to commercial
television. People just switch-
olf. This attitude is less of a
worry to the which
depends upon a flat licence-fee,
than to Independent Television,
which, of course, doesn’t.
So the peak viewing-periods
are to be reorganised. Music
will continue to hold a popular
“spot,” but only in the dynamic
personality of Liberace, the
American showman-pianist. And
the middle-evening is promised,
for maximum attraction, a series
of dramatic films and Westerns.
News-bulletins, “Foreign Press
Club” and even the dog feature,
“Man’s Best Friend,” are per-
force relegated to the quiet hour
before bedtime. So, too, is Sir
John Barbirolli —and this at the
request of the Halle Society,
whose own researches have estab-
lished that 10 p.m. is the best
viewing-time, and that an
orchestral programme of a full
hour is too long by half.
This new arrangement seems
to be an amicable compromise
between the orchestra and Asso-
ciated Redjffusion and still
enables the more discerning
minority to be catered for. But
it also establishes that the wider
public is bored to distraction
with the Enigma Variations even
when, with a Wilfred Pickles
touch, the only survivor of the
“friends pictured within” is
tracked down for a personal
appearance.
Reading between the lines, the
conclusion is inescapable that,
so far, commercial television has
not fulfilled the buoyant hopes
of its promoters. What the
public wanted was an alternative,
and more entertaining, pro-
gramme to the national system.
But the 8.8. C., notwithstanding
serious losses of artists and
technical staff, has been stimu-
lated rather than discouraged by
the presence of a rival. It may
well be that the I.T.V. is less
concerned about switching-o/j 1
than switching-over.
The Gag
There are times when, in the
conduct of its own affairs,
Parliament does not appear to
the best advantage. The so-
called 14-day rule is an example.
Its essence is that Parliamentary
debates must not be anticipated
over the air. And its origin was
a self-protective measure on the
part of the 8.8. C. during the
war. The party-leaders, then
serving together in the Coali-
tion Government, found it
administratively convenient to
come to an agreement with the
8.8. C. that “matters whose dis-
cussion was imminent in
Parliament” would not be
debated on the radio. This was
in 1944. In 1948 “imminent” was
defined as 14 days. Every year
since, the agreement has been
renewed, but earlier this year the
8.8. C, confused and unsatisfied,
brought the matter to a head by
asking for. a directive. Its
strict application had become so
absurd that a discussion on
smoke-pollution had, to be can-
celled because it was due for
debate in Parliament next day.
The whole trouble boils down
to the fact that the party-leaders
(even such a valiant defender of
the liberties as the Prime
Minister’s predecessor) are not
prepared to let principle override
practice. A left-handed discipline
is, in effect, more precious to
them than the right of free
speech. Both parties have
members who are TV-stars;
they are, on the whole, not good
party-men. And there is the
further inconvenience that back-
benchers may embarrassingly
clear the air before the Whips
can get at them. So it is the
dignity —at once stuffy and
parochial —of the Front Benches
which is at stake.
The issue is no clearer for the
free vote, granted only after a
great deal of palaver, for many
of the participants clearly showed
spite towards each other and
envy of the lucky ones in the
public ear and eye.
The “rule” is now due for
consideration by a select com-
mittee, and a “British com-
promise” rather than an
adherence to principle is expected
to be the outcome.
Cleric’s Colony
Fritz Hochwalder’s “The
Strong Are Lonely” (Piccadilly
Theatre) is not so much a
religious play as a play about
religion. To acclaim it as a
masterpiece would be too high hn
assessment, for the piece suggests
the work of a historian rather
than a dramatist. The issues and
conflicts are so tremendous and
clear-cut in themselves that the
trappings of the stage add little
to their purport. They may even,
as in this production, detract
from them.
The French title, “Sur la
Terre Comme au Ciel,” has the
right touch of sarcasm. Better
still would be “In the Name of
God”—for the use and inter-
pretation of this expression is
almost the whole tragedy. It is
at once the fount of inspiration,
the cloak for pride and ambition,
the cover-up for high politics and
the condonation for judicial
killing. . ;
A Jesuit Father Provincial
(Donald Wolfit) is so able an
administrator that Paraguay in
1767 is a prosperous and con-
tented colony. His success in
drawing away the native In-
dians, ostensibly by conversion,
angers the Spanish colonial
planters, who are losing both
trade and labor. The King sends
a deputy in the person of an
old friend who is tactful and
statesmanlike but whose real
mission is to disband the college.
On learning of this, the Father
has him taken into custody by
his quite formidable private
army. He will not sacrifice his
life’s work —nor his pride—to
the ruthless, incompetent
colonists. i \
A mysterious stranger (Ernest
Milton) turns out, in the one
essentially dramatic scene, to be
a higher-up in the Jesuit hier-
archy and devastatingly reminds
the Father of his vow of absolute
obedience to the Order. The
Father is impotent, beaten. His
resistance and strength of
character crumble. He suffers
the bitterest disillusionment on
learning, at first hand, that the
Indians’ conversion is of material,
not spiritual, origin. And he dies,
accidentally shot by those who
are in rebellion against the dis- (
solution.
This play is an imaginative
producer’s delight. The situ-
ations are strong and the part
of the Father Provincial is of in-
finite scope. Neither of these
requirements is fulfilled. The
production is at times gushing
and crude. Donald Wolfit’s con-
siderable but unique art has
immense strength, poignancy and
dignity but his classical (and not
always unmannered) interpreta-
tion seems wrong: he opens in a
foredoomed mood and reveals
only a tragedian’s agony, not a
proud idealist’s soul. Ernest
Milton, too, is strangely indi-
vidual, suggesting the chief
pander at a dissolute Court
rather than a Jesuitical hierarch.
Robert Harris, as the King’s
Deputy, is the only principal to
infuse his characterisation with
intellectual understanding.
Eva le GaUienne’s translation
is not without naivete but the
play merits a wider hearing and
certainly a better placing than
its present one a stopgap
between two musical comedies.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. & G. Mutual Life
TpROM the security aspect there is no
adequate substitute for life
assurance. It provides the assured
and his dependants with an im-
mediate estate, the value of which
steadily increases by annual bonus-
additions, long before it is ever paid for,
an advantage not to be had from any
other form of investment. And a wide
range of contracts provides for a variety
of individual financial needs and wants
outside the bread-and-butter provisions
of social-security legislation. Moreover,
the regular payment of premiums helps
to ease inflationary pressure by reducing
immediate spending-power, and the
accumulated premiums are invested in
Government, industrial and other securi-
ties, and in loans for home-building.
Life assurance thus exerts a very bene-
ficial influence in the individual, social
and economic life of the community.
For these and other reasons an appro-
priate policy with a sound, regular bonus-
paying life office can be recommended as
a sheet-anchor for any investment port-
folio.
It is up to the Government to see that
the savings of policyholders do not run
to waste through inflation. Early post-
war experience showed how inflation,
artificially cheap money, a restricted field
of investment and high taxation pulled
down pre-war rates of bonuses to policy-
holders. Since disintegration of this
unholy combination began, bonus rates
are on the up-grade again.
Latest accounts of the T. and G. —
one of the big mutual life offices which
writes ordinary, industrial and accident
business throughout Australia and New
Zealand—disclose continued improve-
ment, which rests on sound foundations.
Features are (1) a record amount of new
business, (2) growth in the surplus avail-
able for distribution among policyholders,
(3) further increase in bonus rates, (4)
continued improvement in the rate of in-
terest earned, (5) tight hold upon con-
trollable outgoings, and (6) an invest-
ment policy which gives grounds for con-
fidence in the future of the undertaking.
In the two life departments combined,
new business written was a record
£45,690,684 (up £3,los,22s)—ordinary
£38,225,628 (up £3,929,216) and indus-
trial £7,465,056 (down £823,991). The
average amount per ordinary policy was
£767.6 as against £707.8 and £647.4 for
the two preceding years. Group and
superannuation assurance, and the life
cover associated with home-purchase
financed by the co., account for a large
slice of the new business.
Total income, exes., claims and assur-
ance funds in each department moved in
this way:
Ordinary Life Department.
Assurance
Sept., Income, Expenses. Claims. Funds.
1963.. 10,450,853 1,647,431 3,117,363 58,780,031
To state fund, £O9OO .. .. 58,771,031
1954.. 11,660,567 1,776,912 3,523,070 65,131,616
To staff fund, £11,325 .. .. 65,120,291
1955. . 12,994,601 1,948,433 4,008,064 72,158,395
To if fund, £11,475 .. .. 72,146,920
Ii- djstriaij Life Department.
Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds.
£*&&£>
1963.. 5,108,037 1,628,627 2,894,632 27,418,545
To staff fund, £4950 .. .. 27,413,595
1954.. 5,238,109 1,619,355 3,007,020 28,025,329
To staff fund, £Bl5O . . . . 28,017,179
1955.. 5,380,298 1,580,314 3,065,839 28,751,324
To staff fund, £BOOO .. . . 28,743,324
The year’s combined total income was
£18,374,899 (up £1,476,223), of which
£12,994,601 (up £1,334,034) was premiums
and £5,380,298 (up £142,189) interest,
rents, etc. —the etcetera was £60,000
transferred from provision for taxation.
Af(er paying all legitimate claims and
exes., £7,752,774 was added to the assur-
ance funds, making them £100,890,244.
In addition there were investment and
contingency reserves totalling £1,415,972,
which also belong to policyholders, there
being no shareholders.
The amount available for distribution
(excess of assurance funds over liabili-
ties under policies) increased by £417,029
in the O.D. and £66,052 in the 1.D.:
Net surplus— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Ordinary .. . . £1,274,410 £1,568,592 £1,985,621
Industrial .. .. 319,279 332,092 398,144
'Total .. .. £1,593,689 £1,900,684 £2,383,765
Policyholders were handed reversionary
bonuses totalling £1,910,422 in the O.D.
and £352,444 in the I.D. Of the remain-
ing £120,899, £45,000 was earmarked for
actuarial contingencies and the balance
carried forward. The already satisfactory
rates of bonuses in the O.D. were again
increased ; in the I.D. they were main-
tained at the previous year’s level.
Chief factors contributing to the im-
provement in distributions were a rise of
2s. 9d. p.c. in the net rate of interest
earned (£4 2s. Od. p.c.) on the mean
assurance funds, a very favorable mor-
tality experience, and continued reduc-
tion of the expense rate —14.99 p.c. of
total income in the O.D. and 29.7 p.c. in
the I.D. as against 15.24 p.c. and 30.9
p.c. respectively for the previous term.
Last term more attention was given
to mortgages, etc. (up £6,090,964), which
are largely loans from home-building, and
therefore very helpful to new business:
Public 1954. p.c. 1955. p.c.
securities ..£66,957,043 69.1 £68,520,329 -64.6
Mortgages, etc.* 21,403,740 22.1 27,494,704 25.9
Co. debentures 3,629,821 3.7 4,693,069 4.4
Freeholds, etc. 4,092,000 4.1 4,211,904 4.0
Cash, book debts,
etc.,.. .. 942,048 1.0 1,183,072 1.1
* Includes loans on policies.
Public securities increased by £1,503,286,
and the holding of co. debentures by
£1,063,248. Non-interest-bearing assets,
such as plant, furniture, stationery, etc.,
do not figure in the accounts.
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.
/CONSIDERING the diversified nature
of the undertaking and the difficul-
ties in the path, this big and widespread
organisation did well to get through the
12 months to June 30 last with a drop
of no more than £85,162 in net earnings,
which were comfortably in excess of
pref. requirements and 10 p.c. to the
ords.
For a decade after the public became
interested in 1936, the ords. received a
steady 10 p.c., followed by 12| p.c. for
the five years to 1951. In 1952 a loss of
£473,577 showed up, and no ord. div.
was paid—the abrupt fall in wool prices,
slump in textiles, need to write-down in-
ventory-values and to reduce stocks were
the chief troubles. Recovery, however,
was prompt, thanks to a combination of
fortuitous circumstances and steps taken
to correct weaknesses which the change
in conditions disclosed. The ords. got
8 p.c. in 1953, and 10 p.c. for the two
years since.
To simplify administration and pro-
duction, and so reduce overhead, 54 sub-
sidiaries are being wound-up and their
businesses taken over by the parent —19
were absorbed as from July 1, 1954, an-
other 13 have been similarly dealt with
since, and a further 22 are to be treated
likewise over the next couple of years.
The business is now grouped into five
main operating divisions—wool, felts and
carpets, etc.,. footwear, textiles and cloth-
ing—whose products are turned out
from 22 factories in Victoria, eight
N. S. Wales, three each South Aus-
tralia and Westralia and one Tasmania.
The parent also holds a 52.9 p.c. interest
in a N.Z. subsidiary* which paid 8 p.c,
from increased profits last term, and a
41.3 p.c. interest in a South African asso-
ciate, which enjoyed a “satisfactory”
year.
Keener competition from both over-
seas and local sources, the costs problem,
a more cautious buying policy by retailers.
and tightening of credit generally, meant
that the co. had to fight harder to retain
its markets last term, especially in the
textile, footwear, clothing and carpet
sections. The price of fine wools eased,
but not enough to be really troublesome.
In the wool division, whose main func-
tion is to provide the other sections with
their raw materials, the effects were prac-
tically offset by increased exports of tops,
etc. Production and sales of floor-cover-
ings contributed “substantially” to the
year’s profit. '
The slip in group turnover (£32,909,971)
was £287,816, or 0.8 p.c. Based on end-
of-year figures, stock was turned over
on the average 4.4 times as against 4.9
times in the previous term. After allow-
ing for depreciation (£396,272, down
£9078) and taxation (£374,995, down
£35,374), the contraction (£85,162) in net
earnings was 12.1 p.c.:
t Dive —,
Pref- Re-
June Loss.* 6& 4 p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1952. .473,577 64,809 Nil 3,478,173
Added intangibles, £3200 .. .. 3,474,973
Unexplained additions, £8064 ..3,483,037
Debenture sinking fund, £18,145 ..3,501,182
Profit.
1953. .506,054 64,800 8 p.c. = 303,965 3,638,471
From contingencies, £44,261 .. .. 3,682,732
Tax underprovision, £23,629 .. .. 3,659,103
Added capital reserves, £176,773 ..3,835,876
Added general reserves, £14,036 ..3,849,912
Unexplained additions, £21,617 .. 3,871,529
Net addition intangibles, £6027 .. 3,865,502
1954. .702,694 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,123,440
Tax overprovided, £7471 .. .. 4,130,911
Less capital reserves, £31,323 .. 4,099,588
Less revenue reserves, £416 .. ..4,099,172
Net addition intangibles, £11,653.. 4,087,519
1955. 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,260,295
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
t After deducting goodwill, etc., £178,480.
The £617,532 of profit covered the pref.
divs. and 14.5 p.c. on the £3,799,565 of
ord. capital, compared with 16.7, 11.6,
a loss, and profits of 20, 18.6 and 26.3
p.c. back to 1949. That disregards
adjustments interlined in the table, which
are mainly connected with the absorption
of subsidiaries. On capital and reserves
combined, the year’s profit was only
6.4 p.c.
The change in trading conditions
already referred to is further reflected
in growths of £686,681 in stocks (in at
the lower of cost or market-value) and
£167,834 in book-debts:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £5,299,565 £5,299,565 £5,299,565
Reserves .. 2,929,013 4,290,267 4,438,775
Outside interests* 1,078,034 1,201,888 1,340,964
Debentures .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgages .. 2,591,730 2,635,657 2,561,913
Overdraft .. 1,961,374 1,635,313 2,255,201
Sundry creditors,
etc 1,128,755 1,298,209 1,360,772
Tax provision.. 267,025 426,187 405,564
Pinal divs. .. 335,165 221,178 221,178
£17,590,661 £18,008,264 £18,892,932
Freeholds .. 3,898,379 3,908,642 3,900,398
Plant . . 3,419,868 3,471,665 3,475,784
Shares other cos. 447,057 447,049 446,377
Stock .. .. 6,097,890 6,616,696 7,303,377
Debtors, etc... 3,375,161 3,192,827 3,360,661
Cash . . . . 3,418 1,580 2,064
Sinking fund in-
vestment .. 168,145 193,947 220,822
Inter-co. balance 10,502 9,031 4,969
Intangibles .. 170,241 166,827 178,480
£17,590,661 £18,008,264 £18,892,932
* Share capital and reserves.
Of the increase in stocks £346,999 was
in respect of finished goods (mainly floor-
coverings), and most of the balance
represented raw materials to cover orders
in hand. To help meet the year’s outlay,
£619,888 was added to the overdraft —
substantially reduced since the close of
accounts —and £71,563 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors.
Since the books were ruled off F. and
T., Bradford Cotton and Burlington
Mills have together formed a new co.,
Chattanooga Tufted Carpets (Aust.),
Pty., with a nominal capital of £250,000,
to make tufted carpets locally. It has
taken over F. and T.’s old woollen-felt
mills at Botany. Cabin Crafts Inc. (U.S.)
is to supply technical services.
Together with replacement of some
obsolete equipment in the finishing sec-
tion, establishment of a plastic-textiles
factory at Sale (Vic.) and additions, etc.,
elsewhere, capital outlay over the next
couple of years is expected to total about
£525,000. Those on the register will not
be asked for more share-capital, the chair-
man says.
As for the current term, it is claimed
that the drop in wool prices has not seri-
ously affected net earnings. Import-
restrictions should be helpful, but the
full effects of the credit-squeeze have yet
to be felt, and costs will be difficult to
restrain.
At 275. 7d. (31s. 3d. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 ords. return 7.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The 6 p.c. second and 4 p.c.
third prefs. at 20s. 6d. and 12s. yield
5.8 p.c. and 6.7 p.c. respectively. Net
tangible cover (book - value) is
£47 11s. lid. seconds, £7 7s. lid. thirds
and 425. sd. ords.
Samuel Allen & Sons (Townsville)
T)RESENT indications are that this old-
established North Queensland business
should continue to fare well. The co.’s
rapid growth, especially over the last five
years, its varied interests, and an expand-
ing local economy, which is primarily
dependent upon the sugar-, pastoral-,
tobacco-growing and mining-industries,
augur well for shareholders’ long-term
prospects.
In 1950 an engineering-supply and
hardware business, now trading as Wypers
(Cairns) Pty., was taken over; later a
similar class of undertaking, A. E. Clay-
ton and Son. Pty., was acquired at Ayr ;
then a new offshoot, Magnetic Motors
Pty., was formed to handle the parent’s
Ford mo tor-vehicle franchise; and an-
other offshoot, Allen’s Investment Pty.,
was set up to look after hire-purchase
contracts for the group. Meanwhile the
parent’s hotel interests, mainly in the
thirsty areas between Cairns and Bowen
and at Mt. Isa have been strengthened,
its general merchandising activities, in-
cluding a controlling interest in Holli-
mans Pty. (Townsville), have continued
to expand, and so has its list of agencies
to which have been added during the last
few years franchises for the products of
Moffat-Virtue, Essantee Switch-gear,
Hardie Rubber and Carrier Air Con-
ditioning.
To help finance further expansion, in-
cluding extension and modernisation of
hotel properties (not yet complete), en-
largement of Magnetic Motors’ activi-
ties and growth of the hire-purchase off-
shoot, 211,875 new £1 ords. were issued
at par, one for four, in October, 1954.
When all the money on that lot is in—
there was £110,312 to come at June 30
last —paid capital will be £1,059,375 in
71,428 first and a like number of second
prefs. and 916,519 ords.; the prefs.
carry a cumulative 6 p.c., advance with
the ords. beyond that rate and share in
surplus assets. An all-round 8 p.c. div.
will then call for £19,645 less profit than
was earned last term, and earnings have
yet to receive their full benefit from
recent capital expenditure.
Last term the Clayton business .incurred
a loss (amount not stated), but is expected
to contribute to profits during the cur-
rent term. Also the parent ceased trading
in low-profit-yielding lines in the whole-
sale grocery and produce sections, and
“considerable benefit” is expected from
re-employment of the capital thus re-
leased. All other sections of the business
continued to thrive. After allowing
£70,316 for taxation and something for
depreciation, etc., the net result was
£3491 stronger at £104,395:
Parent Co.
t Dividends ~ To Ke- Ke-
June, Profit. Pref. t Old. s serves, serves.*
S p.e.
& £j £ £ £
1950.. 57,813 11,428 8 p.e. = 28,372 18,013 156,143
Revaluation assets, £ 133,985 .. .. 290,128
Share premiums, £96,625 .. ..386,753
1951.. 75,368 11,428 8 p.e. = 39,882 24,068 410,811
Share premiums, £4784 .. .. 415,595
1952.. 90,762 11,428 8 p.c. = 54,578 24,756 440,351
t Parent and Subsidiaries.
Add on consolidation, £29,014 . . 472,435
Goodwill written-off, £3070 .. .. 469,365
Loss realisation subsidiary, £lO9B .. 468,267
1953.. 73,179 11,428 8 p.e. = 56,372 5,379 473,646
Unexplained reduction, £9860 .. 483,506
1954. .100,904 11,428 8 p.e. = 50,372 33,104 516,610
Profit sale assets, £11,461 .. .. 528,071
Unexplained addition, £lO6 .. .. 528,177
1955.. 104.395.11,428 8 p.c. = 58,844 34,123 562,300
* Subject to intangibles, £5344 at 30/6/’55.
The £104,395 was 11.9 p.c. on average
capital (pref. and ord. combined) as
against 11.9 p.c. and 8.6 p.c. for the two
preceding years. The div. was kept at an
all-round 8 p.c., and has been for the last
half-dozen years.
The financial position improved, growth
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£492,032) being £58,235, due mainly to
the introduction of £101,563 of fresh
share-capital:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £142,856 £142,856 £142,856
Ord 704,644 704,644 806,207
Keserves .. .. 473,640 516,610 562,300
Outside interests .. 1,065 1,205 1,284
Mortgage .. .. 247,401 288,452 278,205
Overdraft . . , . 327,193 416,740 422,284
Creditors, etc. .. 350,933 499,107 503,264
Tax provision .. 75,150 76,822 81,080
Final divs. .. 33,900 33,900 36,019
£2,356,788 £2,680,336 £2,833,499
Land, buildings .. 775,588 837,057 916,663
Plant, etc. .. 89,536 89,117 98,608
Govt, bonds, etc... 17,530 15,640 17,623
Stock 790,973 913,723 841,658
Debtors, etc. .. 676,715 818,312 952,415
Cash .. .. 1,102 1,143 1,188
Goodwill .. .. .5,344 5,344 5,344
£2,356,788 £2,680,336 £2,833,499
The year’s net additions of £79,606 to
land and buildings and £9491 to plant
reflect the outlay on hotel properties
(extensions at Mt. Isa were completed in
time for the Christmas, 1954, trade) and
on premises and equipment for the Mag-
netic Motor co. The growth of £134,103
in book-debts was mostly on account of
hire-purchase contracts. Construction of
a new hotel at Ayr and improvements
and additions to the one at Proserpine are
now in hand.
At 235. (265. a year ago) the f.-p. £1
ords. return 7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. On the same div. basis,
the contribs. at 11s. 3d. (now paid to
10s. each) would return 7.3 p.c. when
fully-paid. The prefs. at 235. yield 7.3
p.c. at last term’s rate of distribution.
Including uncalled capital, net tangible
cover, all shares, is 30s. 6d.
R. Fowler, Ltd.
/CONTRARY to the general trend of
the market-price for industrials, which
fell by nearly 9 p.c. during the last five
months of 1955, the price of Fowler’s
f.-p. £1 ords. rose from 30s. early in
1955 to 325. in June last and continued
to advance, reaching 335. 6d. last week-
end. The return at 335. 6d. is 5.9 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for a wink over 7 p.c. on his money
counts on a 12 p.c. distribution, which,
together with the pref. div., would now
call for £1435 less profit than was claimed
last term. The 10 p.c. prefs. at 295. yield
6.9 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £lB 16s. 9d. prefs. and 545. 6d. ords.
Measures taken by the Government to
counter inflationary pressure and redress
the trade balance are remedial only, and
will not affect all businesses in the same
way. Also, doubts about maintenance
of the 10 p.c. div., which had been sweet-
ened with the equivalent of a two-for-
three bonus share-issue in December,
1954, were resolved as the term advanced.
And the demands of a growing popula-
tion, fed by a continued flow of migrants
backed by natural increase, augur well
for long-term prospects of this class of
business.
The co.’s principal works, at Marrick-
ville (N.S.W.), turn out drainage- and


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BABRiSBB
acta Jike a hand
when placed flat
_ upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BAKRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3d), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON^
OSIHJJVAtf
TRADE 'Z3L><S=r MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS and offset printers
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
36in.
r:
■
|‘“P*
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems arid household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— AdVT.
Fuilh in the
Future
\
r
?L
One returns from a highly developed and
heavily industrialised country like America more
convinced than ever that Australia is still fairly in
the middle of its pioneering.
“So much to do,” in the famous phrase of
Cecil Rhodes. ' And such vast opportunity for
doing it. Particularly by the young.
It is to young Australians mostly that I would
address these remarks, for theirs are the precious
years.
Tens of thousands of our boys and girls, fresh
from school, are starting out on their careers.
Employment is plentiful. They will have
little trouble in getting a job. But will it be one
that will satisfy their instinct to succeed —and will
it put their youth-power into the maximum service
of their country?
I feel myself free to ask that because for a
large part of 1955 it was my good fortune to travel
where all that is modern in industry—atomic power,
electronics, and so on —is being marshalled for
an amazing Future; where in science, engineering,
manufacturing, agriculture, in every branch of
industry that is vital to Australia, great new things
are being done.
They are being done in a rich and populous
country that has every modern resource, backed
by powerful finance. And yet the workers in these
brilliant new fields regard themselves as only
pioneers. As, indeed, they are, in terms of the
centuries ahead.
Then how truer is it of Australia, where, almost
168 years after the first white settlement, nine
million people are “scattered to conquer a
continent.”
Our young people are the chief inheritors of
all this. They are the latter-day pioneers of the
land, of industry in all its forms, and more
importantly, of the marvellous modern means by
which labour will be lightened and production
raised.
This is no dream. It is reality. And it is
within the reach of every strong young arm.
// //ctsTu^s
ee4c*x.
7
sewerage-pipes, sanitary- and
other earthenware, as well as
floor-tiles and insulators, etc.
Factories at Melbourne, Bris-
bane and Adelaide concentrate
mainly on sanitaryware and
household crockery. Another
offshoot, R. Fowler Vianini,
Ltd., has been making concrete-
pipes at Marrickville since the
1920’5. Last term all the issued
capital in Mansfield Pottery
Pty., Ryde (N.S.W.), was bought
at an unstated figure, 11,700
f.-p. £1 ords. being issued in
part-payment, thus expanding
the stoneware-pipe section of
the business.
Competition in the trade is
keen, and profit-margins mostly
narrow. Still, turnover
increased last term, especially in
sanitaryware and other ceramic
products, thanks to the high
level of activity in the building
trade and to sewerage extensions,
etc., by public authorities. After
allowing £28,111 (up £1581) for
depreciation and whatever was
considered necessary for taxa-
tion and other contingencies, the
cautious board wrote net earn-
ings £4034 stronger at
£36,839:
f —Dividends \ Re-
Spt. Profit. 10p.c. / Ord. serves.
30, £ £ £ £
’51..28,473 4000 10 p.c. = 15,000 522,155
To tax reserve, £8590 .. 513,665
Added reserves, £976 .. 514,541
’52..21,749 4000 10 p.c. = 15,000 517,290
Profit sale assets, £4630 .. 521,920
'53..22,529 4000 10 p.c. 15,000 525,449
’54..32,805 4000 10 „ „ 15,000 539,254
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO 439,254
Profit sale assets, £5295 .. 444,549
’55..36,839 4000 10 p.c. = 25,585 451,803
A capital profit of £5295 on sale
of assets was sent direct to
reserves. The £36,839 covered
the pref. div. and 12.8 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against
19.2, 12.3, 11.8 and 16.3 p.c.
back to 1951. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., which was equal
to 16.6 p.c. on capital as it stood
before issue of gift-scrip already
referred to. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was a
moderate 4.9 p.c.
During the year £38,569 more
was spent on plant than was
written off, mainly in connection
with the new continuous-kiln at
the Marrickville pottery, which
came into production since the
close of accounts, and the
current term’s earnings are
expected to benefit from the
increased output:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Ord. .. 150,000 150,000 261,700
Reserves . . 525,449 539,254 451,803
Overdraft .. 18,823 20,460
Creditors, tax 88,864 107,303 124,856
Duetosubsid. 62,707 49,738 60,015
Pinal div... 11,400 9,500 16,085
Total .. £897,243 £895,795 £973,919
Freehold .. 368,150 371,240 367,615
Plant . . 144,483 135,278 173,847
Shares subsid. 60,658 60,658 75,387
Advances to
subsid. .. 61,328 64,125 60,674
Stocks .. 132,037 126,767 146,818
Debtors .. 110,337 127,034 149,228
Cash, etc. .. 20,250 10,693 350
Total . . £897,243 £895,795 £973,919
The growth of £14,729 in shares
in subsidiaries reflects purchase
of the Mansfield business, which,
together with the bonus share-
issue, also added £111,700 to
ord. capital. The additions to
stocks (up £20,051) and book-
debts (up £22,194) were on
account of bigger trading. To
help meet the year’s outlay the
co. went to its bankers for
£20,460 and £17,553 was added
to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. Overall it is a
comfortable and well-balanced
financial structure.
Aust. Oil Exploration, Ltd.
If things pan out according to
the board’s anticipations, of
which more should be known
after the extraordinary general
meeting of shareholders in Perth
on January 19, a start might soon
be made with erection of a big
uranium-treatment plant on the
Mary Kathleen leases, about
40 miles east of Mt. Isa (N.Q.).
A.O.E. was launched in Perth
in January, 1954, to hunt for oil.
It drilled two prospecting wells
at Reid’s Dome (Q.), which
failed to strike a commercial
flow. Its areas in the Fortescue
basin (W.A.) were abandoned
after examination, and those in
the Eucla basin have been geo-
logically overhauled, but the
result has not yet been broadcast.
Meanwhile, in August, 1954,
the Mary Kathleen uranium
leases were acquired from the
Walton-McConachy syndicate
for £250,000. Mary Kathleen
Mines, Ltd., was formed for the
purpose, in which A.O.E. held
an 80 p.c. interest and the syndi-
cate 20 p.c., with the right to
5 p.c, of the gross proceeds of
ore won. To finance this deal
A.O.E. issued 5,000,000 new ss.
shares at par in September, 1954.
In the following month A.O.E.
and Petroleum Drilling Corp.
said they were taking joint action
to form a £2,500,000 co.,
Uranium Smelters, Ltd., to erect
a treatment-plant on the area;
but the proposal was not
proceeded with.
Later, in March, 1955, the Rio
Tinto group (London) was in-
duced to come in and complete
the exploration programme, and,
if results justified, arrange finance
for the erection of a treatment-
plant. Under the new arrange-
ment shareholdings in the Mary
Kathleen co. were 51 p.c. Rio,
39 p.c. A.O.E. and 10 p.c.
syndicate.
In September, 1955, Rio
bought 50,000 A.O.E. ss. shares
paid to 2s. at 2s. each, and was
granted an option over a further
450,000 shares, also paid to 25.,
at premiums ranging from 6d. a
share to end November, 1955, to
2s. at end January, 1956, 4s. 6d.
to end June, 1956, and 7s. 6d.
to end September, 1956; all
prices to be increased by calls as
made. Rio had not exercised its
first option at the end of
November last.
Now an amended agreement
has been entered' into between
the shareholders in the Mary
Kathleen co., which relates prin-
cipally to the erection of a treat-
ment-plant at a cost of upwards
of £8,500,000 should Rio decide
to proceed with the undertaking.
The funds are to be provided up
to £9,000,000 at 6 p.c. p.a., and
any amount in excess of that sum
at 10 p.c. p.a. Also A.O.E.’s
interest in Mary Kathleen
Uranium, Ltd., is to be reduced
from 39 p.c. to 35 p.c.
Shareholders anxiously await
announcement of the full terms
and conditions on which funds
are to be provided, and whether
Rio has yet definitely decided to
go ahead with the project. If it
has, it might be up to three years
before the plant gets into full
production. Recent surveys of
Mary Kathleen and adjacent
leases are said to have disclosed
about 50 p.c. more uranium-ore
than was originally counted
upon. Preliminary steps for
selection of a mill-site and the
laying-out of a mine township
are in hand.
Rawang Concessions, Ltd.
The Payable portions of
the co.’s leases at Ulu Yam
(F.M.S.) are just about worked
out. The dredge, a modernised
and efficient unit, is to be kept
running so long as it is able to
earn profits, but is expected to
be put on a care-and-mainten-
ance basis before many months
are out. Still, it should not be
assumed, the chairman says,
that there is no future for the
co. as a dredging concern when
present operations cease.
No suitable property is in
sight at the moment. But since
the emergency situation in
Malaya has improved, Anglo-
Malayan Development—a pros-
pecting co. whose job it is to
search for new areas for all
cos. under the management of
Anglo-Oriental—is investigating
likely new tin-bearing ground,
and hopes are that something
worth while will turn up for
Rawang Concessions.
The co. (paid capital £200,000
in f.-p. £1 shares) is well-
equipped to buy a new property
and finance transfer and re-
erection of its dredge. At March
31 last cash, etc., totalled
£456,368, and outside liabilities
£68,883, including tax-provision
and the final div. Stores figure
at £58,376, and the property and
dredge, etc., had been written
down in the books to £4237 and
£18,208 respectively. Share-
holders could thus see a surplus
of cash, etc., over outside
liabilities of £387,485, equal to
38s. 9d. per share, which recently
fetched 31s. 9d. in the market.
Over the last five years—the
dredge began digging again post-
war in June, 1950 —shareholders
have had divs. aggregating 185.7
p.c. So the investor who bought
the scrip at its then current price
of 235. 9d. in January, 1951, has
nothing to complain about.
Northern Hercules, N.L.
A trial run ,of the co.’s 100-
ton-a-day mill, completed in
December last, showed that the
plant is suitable for treatment
of any variation of ore likely to
come from the mine, the board
says. The treatment problem
stood in the way of development
of this property for many years.
Present plant is designed on the
Kalgoorlie School of Mines’
recommendation of fine-grind-
ing, flotation, roasting of the
concentrate and cyanidation.
Capacity throughput is not
expected for a few months.
Meanwhile, bulk of the feed will
come from a 3000-ton dump of
development ore, which means
that early recoveries are likely
to be lower than can be expected
later on. There are four known
ore-shoots, estimated to contain
62,300 tons, averaging 37.2dwt.
gold. Recoverable grade has
been put at 30.8dwt., and costs
at about £8 per ton, thus leaving
a profit of approximately
£1,000,000 with gold at
£l5 12s. 6d. a fine ounce. Every-
thing will depend upon whether
mine-values live up to expecta-
tions, upon the tonnage of
additional pay-ore that can be
developed, and upon whether
costs can be kept around the
£B-a-ton mark —they are always
a, difficult nut to crack in far-
away localities like Pine Creek,
where this mine is.
Underground development
commenced in March, 1955, the
200 ft. level has been opened up
over a length of some 850 ft.,
and Nos. 1 and 2 ore-shoots are
fully exposed. Values are
“extremely erratic,” but average
results to date are in keeping
with prospectus estimates. Close
assay-control of 'stbping will be
needed to ensure that average
head-value of the mill feed is
maintained.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Glorious weather marked the entry
of 1956 into Sydney, and there were
many happy scenes to be witnessed,
particularly during the weekend, at play-
grounds and beaches, but one of the
happiest sights was that of groups of
New Australians, young men and women,
seated on the grassy slopes of the
Domain in the early-morning sunshine,
awaiting the ship which was to bring
their families and friends into the
Harbor —a harbor in more senses than
one.
☆ ☆ ☆
The author of “The Summer of the
Seventeenth Doll,” Melbourne’s Ray
Lawler, and members of the cast of the
play (now on a three-weeks’ run at the
Elizabethan) were entertained at a
cocktail-party at Usher’s during the
week by the chairman and members of
the Playwrights’ Advisory Board. The
chairman, Mr. Leslie Rees, said the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust had agreed to
give the play professional backing
because of its having shared first-prize
in the board’s recent contest and its very
successful tryout in Melbourne. Sir
Edward Hallstrom presented the prize to
Mr. Lawler and also a special prize to
Miss Eunice Hanger, who came down
from Brisbane for the party and who
had some trenchant remarks to make
about the general drabness of Australian
speech. Dr. H. C. Coombs and Mr.
O. D. Bisset were among the guests, also
playwrights Douglas Stewart, Kylie
Tennant and Gwen Meredith. '
Breathes there a woman who will not
congratulate Senator Agnes Robertson
on being re-elected to the Senate?
Senator Robertson, having been dropped
from the Liberal ticket because of her
age (so it was implied), joined the
Country party and became the first C.P.
woman-member of Federal Parliament.
Actually, the Senator’s age (73) should
be more a qualification than otherwise,
for the very name “Senate” means a
group of people of mature years.
☆ ☆ ☆
Anthony Gibbes, eight-year-old actor
in the Metropolitan Theatre’s “Puss in
Boots.” deserves a special word of con-
gratulation for the way he has mastered
a long and difficult part. He and his
sister Wendy (who is also in the play)
are two very promising young people
for whom a bright future is predicted.
☆ ☆ ☆
After all the talk about Princess Mar-
garet’s way of dressing and how she
should have worn pigskin gloves instead
of suede (or vice versa), she has been
acclaimed by a committee of the highest
authorities to be third-best-dressed woman
in the world, tying with the Duchess of
Windsor. Actress Grace Kelly, who tied
for first place with Mrs. William Paley,
followed-up this glamorous distinction
by announcing her engagement to the
handsome 32-year-old Prince Rainier of
Monaco. Grace Kelly, who is said to
have inspired the new “ladylike-look,”
which doesn’t seem to have taken on in
Australia yet, bids fair to be “the woman
of 1956.”
☆ ☆ ☆
“Diversity with Unity” is to be the
topic of the 14th Biennial Conference
of the Australian Federation of Univer-
sity Women, to be held at the Women’s
College, Sydney University, from Janu-
ary 14 to January 20; Miss Frances
Penington will give her presidential
address on this subject in the Great
Hall at 8 p.m. on January 16. Lady Slim,
who is patroness of the conference, will
be present at the reception to be given
on Saturday, January 14, by the presi-
dent and members of the Sydney Uni-
versity Women Graduates’ Association in
the Great Hall.
☆ ☆ ☆
There is a gay and lively pantomime
at the Tivoli, now showing both in the
morning and afternoon. One of the
amazing things about panto, is the way
children generally accept the fact that
the Principal Boy is a girl and the Dame
is a man. How this tradition came to be
established is not certain, but it probably
goes back to the days when it was con-
sidered the height of revelry for people
to change place with one another, the
master with the servant, the men with the
women. As the first Principal Boy was
played when women’s legs were not
usually on view, it was probably thought
such a good idea that it continued. Nina
Cook, who plays Jack in the Tivoli’s
“Jack and Jill,” certainly looks striking
and has all the dash and verve a panto-
mime hero should have.
Judy Ann James, recently engaged to
Denis Everingham, is wearing a beautiful
square-cut sapphire ring on her third-
finger-left-hand. Judy Ann is the only
daughter of Mrs. Dorothy James, of
Point Piper, and her fiance is the only son
of Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Everingham,
of Vaucluse. Photo by Leighton.
There were not many parties during
the week, people’s party-going propensi-
ties having been well satisfied over the
Christmas and New Year period, but
there was a bright young people’s “do”
in honor of Meredith Roberts, daughter
of Professor and Mrs. S. H. Roberts,
who returned from a holiday in Colombo
with her parents. John Campbell gave
the party for about 40 guests in his
Darling Point flat, and entertained among
them Beth and Jill Campbell, Mary
Stephen, Carol Clark, Wendy Lloyd
Jones, Peter McNeil, Freddy Storch,
Bill Taylor and Peter Headlam.
# i}. #
How men can continue to maintain
that women do all the gossiping in this
world is hard to understand. In fact, the
contrary is the case. Why, the Sydney
“Telegraph” has four paid gossip-
writers, and they’re all men!
a * ☆
. The majority of Sydney’s choirs and
choral-societies will combine for the
World Council of Churches’ Festival of
Faith, to be held in Sydney in February.
Conducting the massed choirs will be
Mr. Gerald Knight, Director of the Royal
School of Church Music, and one of the
greatest living authorities on religious-
music. ,A feature of the Festival will be
the combining of more than 1000 voices
in singing excerpts from Handel’s “Mes-
siah” under Mr. Knight’s baton. Making
a first visit to Sydney, the World Execu-
tive of the World Council of Churches
will be present, as well as leading church-
men from all over the world.
☆ ☆ ☆
A fashion-event to be awaited with in-
terest is the Paris fashion-parade to be
staged by David Jones’ at Easter. About
20 of France’s ace designers will be repre-
sented, and 10 French mannequins will be
flown to Australia for the parades. There
is to be a gala premiere in David Jones’
restaurant on March 19 and the parades
will continue on weekdays until March
29.
a a a
Sailing for a six-months’ overseas trip
in the Orsova on January 27 are Mr. and
Mrs. H. C. Marshall, (he is general-
manager of the Bank of New South
Wales). Mr. and Mrs. Marshall will dis-
embark at San Francisco, fly across
the U.S. and continue their trip
to Britain and the Continent in the
Queen Elizabeth.
Noted that the Davy Crockett caps
have spread to the girls, some of whom
may be seen wearing them in black rabbit
(or lapin if you prefer it) or rather-
battered silver-fox. It may be super-
fluous to add that the caps don t look so
good as they do on the little boys.
* # *
Music-lovers throughout Australia will
be interested in the recently announced
engagement of Marjorie Conley, the pro-
mising young soprano who won the 1955
Mobil Quest as well as many other major
vocal contests, and who is to go abroad
shortly to further her studies. Her fiance
is Geoffrey Chard, operatic-baritone, who
won recognition for his acting and sing-
ing in local opera. Marjorie has also
performed in opera, both in John
AntilFs “Endymion” and as Juliet in the
Conservatorium Opera School’s produc-
tion of “Romeo and Juliet,” in which
she made a marked impression.
MELBOURNE
In a simple but impressive ceremony
the Archbishop of Melbourne, Dr. J. J.
Booth, blessed the seas and fishing-fleets
of the Commonwealth, and, as a symbol
of his blessing, threw a golden cross into
the water. This ceremony is held at
Queenscliff every third New Year’s Day,
and this year there were 5000 people at
the service. The Governor, present with
Lady Brooks, gave the address and
the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice-
Admiral Dowling, read the Lesson.
Preceded by a band, robed clergy, with
choir-boys bearing banners and altar-boys
in red cassocks, carried the Crucifix and
the Archbishop’s crook. The Archbishop
prayed for “such seasonable weather at
all times that our brethren of the fishing-
fleets of the Commonwealth may gather
abundantly of the harvest of the sen.”
As the service was in progress the liner
Strathnaver, which had just entered the
heads, steamed past. The sky, which had
been overcast all morning, cleared during
the service.
Olive Walter should be as popular with
Australians off-stage as she will be for
her work as the frightful mother-in-law
in “Sailors Beware,” which opens at the
Comedy Theatre on January 18. Miss
Walter, who is a cousin of England's
famous comedienne Hermione Gingold,
has appeared with just about every actor
and actress of any note in the English
theatre; she rates almost a page
in “ Who’s Who in the Theatre.” She
came to Australia after a short holiday in
Malaya with her husband, Captain
Burney, who is there with the British
Army. Photo from Allan Studios.
Women who figured in the Queen’s
New Year’s honors richly deserve their
awards. Mrs. R. W. Chambers, who
received the 0.8. E., saw service as a
nursing-Sister in World War I; her honor
is a recognition of the work she has done
for Royal Melbourne Hospital. She has
been president of the Central Council of
Auxiliaries for the past nine years, and
she was for many years president of the
Toorak Auxiliary to the R.M.H. For
the past three years Mrs. Chambers has
been president of the Returned Nurses’
Club.
Miss Jessie Bage, another recipient of
the 0.8. E., also has had a long associa-
tion with Royal Melbourne. She was the
first woman to be appointed to the hos-
pital-board and has been a member of
it for over 20 years. In World War I
she served with the British Red Cross in
England and France.
Colonel Kathleen Best received the
0.8. E. (military division). Her service
as Director of the Women’s Royal Aus-
tralian Army Corps is well known, and
she had a distinguished nursing career
in World War H. For her work in the
A.I.F. evacuation of Greece she received
the Royal Red Cross.
An 0.8. E. was awarded to Mrs. D.
Curtis-Otter for her services to the Girl
Guide Movement, of which she is Victor-
ian State Commissioner. At the begin-
ning of the last war Mrs. Curtis-Otter
joined the first officers-training-course at
Flinders and was one of the first gradu-
ates. She held the position of acting-
director of the W-R.A.N.S. for six months
while the director was in England with
the Victory Contingent.
M.B.E.s were granted to Major Mary
Anderson for a lifetime of service to the
Salvation Army, Mrs. Gladys Isabel
Grant for her work among war-widows
and New Australians, Miss E. L. Archer,
formerly chief librarian of the C.5.1.R.0.,
and (for their work in country centres)
Miss Muriel Bush, of Bendigo, Miss
Margaret Rain, of Learmonth, and Mrs.
F. L. Nance, of Colac.
☆ ☆ ☆
Toorak Presbyterian Church was the
setting for the marriage of Keera, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ronald
Cameron, of Bentleigh. The bride’s
graceful gown of white silk taffeta was
cut on classical lines, with a separate
train falling from the waist; the long-
sleeved bodice had a low neckline
trimmed with a roll-collar. A matching
coronet held her fingertip veil, and she
carried a sheath of white gladioli.
Keera’s cousin, Patricia Crozier, was
bridesmaid; her short frock of deep-
blue silk shantung was worn with a
contrasting Chartreuse curvette, and she
carried a trail of leaves in matching
Chartreuse tones. Bridegroom was
William, third son of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Le Lievre, of Ivanhoe; his
brother John, of Canberra, was best
man. Reception was held at the
Dorchester.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests at the buffet-dinner party
given by Mrs. Saul Aarons at her
Caulfield home sat in the garden under
the lovely trees and, for the first time
in weeks, enjoyed perfect weather. The
party, arranged as a birthday gesture
for Saul and for their friend Mrs. Frank
Hall, also served as an opportunity for
friends to say goodbye to Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Disney and Mrs. Grey Staley,
who leave for abroad in February in
the Iberia.
The hostess wore a full-skirted frock
of grey, black-patterned polished cotton,
Mrs. Disney a frock of rose-beige
Chantilly-lace, Mrs. Staley a black faille
frock with a deep collar of white
guipure-lace and Mrs. Frank Hall, who
assisted the hostess, a simple midnight-
blue silk frock.
Mrs. Honeyman wore an embroidered
black jersey with her full-skirted black
taffeta skirt. Mrs. Jack Langley’s frock
of Parma-violet silk had the bodice
heavily jewelled in matching tones. Mrs.
Norman Lynch chose a frock of Italian-
cotton with a satin finish in shades of
pink patterned in faint gold. Miss Alice
Wyatt wore filmy black chiffon, Mrs.
W. McDermott a grey lace off-shoulder
bodice with a finely-pleated grey silk
taffeta skirt. Mrs. John Carrodus topped
a rose-patterned white cotton skirt with
a white guipure-lace off-shoulder top.
Mrs. John Heath chose a short coral-
pink chiffon evening-frock, Mrs. Bessie
Davidson dove-grey Chantilly-lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lovely weather at the Moonee Valley
races brought out floral silks, cool pastel
cottons, linens and white seersuckers.
Lady Rowell (who was with Lieut-
General Sir Sydney Rowell) wore a
frock and matching jacket of mist-blue
shantung and a small hat in the same
toning. Mrs. Bowen Allen’s silk frock
was in pastel-blue spotted in white.
Mrs. Norman Strange chose a white
embroidered Swiss-linen frock and small
flower hat. Mrs. Sue Cain contrasted
her white sharkskin sheath-frock with a
large black picture-hat.
Mrs. John Newton’s bouffant white
silk frock was scattered with red roses,
and she wore with it a large white hat.
Mrs. Michael Ryan topped her black
linen sheath-frock with a pale-pink straw
mushroom-hat. Mrs. H. Jensen, also in
black, contrasted her frock with a
citron-yellow hat and accessories. Mrs.
Frank Norris wore a cafe au lait straw
cloche with her black frock.


Missing Friend
MRS. EMMALINE SANDERSON, formerly
of Kogarah, New South Wales. —Anyone
knowing anything concerning the above
please communicate with GARDEN &
GREEN, Solicitors, Swan Hill.
Public Notice
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
partnership heretofore subsisting between
LEO JOSEPH MOONEY and IRVINE
ALAN HOSIE carrying on business as
advertising agents at 171 Fitzroy Street,
St. Kilda, under the style “LEO MOONEY
ADVERTISING,” has been dissolved as
from the Twenty-fourth day of November,
1955, so far as it concerns the said
Irvine Alan Hosie, who retires from the
said firm.
DATED this 23rd day of December,
1955.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALEXANDER WALTER BURTON
late of 9 Allen Street, Glebe Point.—
TAKE NOTICE that VERA EILEEN
BURTON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1567 of 1955 on the ground of
habitual drunkenness and habitual cruelty
for three years and upwards and is asking
for exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899-1954 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the First day of
March 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from GOULD &
SHAW, Solicitors, of 72 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DQUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH ALLAN IRVINE late of 43
Highland Avenue Bankstown Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that MAY ACTON IRVINE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4540 of
1955 on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 10th March 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. BRUCE FERGUSON,
Solicitor, of 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
Ca
Cn>
/z s
r-5
V > v',''n
Better Met/mds
of PRODUCTION
Ihe challenge to Australia to-day is to improve
equipment and techniques to a point where more and
better goods can be produced at a price the buyer is
able to pay.
Those who set obt to meet this challenge will find
the many services and helpful advice of this Bank
readily available. The Bank has a long record of
service to its customers —and a broad understanding
of their problems.
At Head Office, or at the branch nearest to you, our
officers will gladly discuss co-operation to this end.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Talkies
“East of Eden”
A film touched with great-
ness. Steinbeck’s story is rich
in understanding, and in it
dramatic ferocity and humaiy
pity go side-by-side. There is a
compelling, direct simplicity
about the narrative, along with
a notable gallery of portraits.
The story is set in California
just on the outbreak of
World War I. The younger son
of a farmer is restless, seemingly
an untamable rebel; the elder
son is sober and pious like his
father. The younger discovers
that his supposedly dead mother
is the town’s wealthy procuress ;
she, too, had been a rebel. With
these components Steinbeck
juggles with unerring skill and
the denouement is powerful and
convincing.
Much of the credit for the
film’s success goes to Elia Kazan
for his inspired direction. His
climaxes are of shattering inten-
sity, as when the younger son,
dragging his righteous brother
to confront his mother, savagely
hurls him at her in the bitterness
that surges over him, bringing
them both down. There is
another finely-handled sequence
in which a mob starts to get out
of hand and threatens to lynch
a German businessman when a
woman reads out a telegram
saying her son had just been
killed in action. Kazan’s use of
the camera is masterly through-
out.
James Dean —killed in a car-
crash some months ago after
making this, his first and only
film brings freshness and
vitality and a sense of intense
drama to the role of the younger
son. In the opening sequences
it appears that he is simply trying
to out-Brando Brando in strong
inarticulation, but he quickly
sets an individual course, and in
his striving to win his father’s
affection he achieves some
moving scenes.
As the father, Raymond
Massey gives what is possibly
the best performance of his
career. Another notable portrait
is supplied by Julie Harris, as
the girl who is expected to marry
the respectable son, but who
gradually comes to appreciate
the true character of the younger
one. Her performance is sensi-
tive and intelligent.
Another good stretch of acting
comes from folk-singer Burl Ives,
as the police-chief-cwm-family-
friend who understands the boy’s
complex character and is swift
and resourceful in scotching an
incipient riot.
Jo Van Fleet, as the mother,
and Richard Davalos, as the
elder brother, complete as sound
a cast as has figured together in
an American film for many a
day.
At Sydney Century.
❖ ❖ *
“Rainbow Jacket” (Sydney
Victory): A simple, well-done
story of the English Turf, in
which a promising apprentice-
boy, with a warned-off hoop for
his coach strikes trouble from the
inevitable crooks. Sentimental,
but unpretentious, the film is a
' pleasant blend of fine horseflesh,
clever close-ups and warm color
in the shots of Newmarket and
other picturesque English
courses. Fella Edmonds has just
the right kind of freckles for an
apprentice-kid, Bill Owen does
a good job as his adviser, as does
Kay Walsh as his mother.
Robert Morley blows-off to per-
fection as a bullying lord.
“You’re Never Too Young”
(Sydney Capitol): Jerry Lewis
escapes from a gangster who, in
a hotel surrounded by cops, has
surreptitiously slipped a stolen
diamond into his pocket so he
will act as a safe courier. Mr.
Lewis dresses as a schoolboy and
casts-up at the girls’ college in
which Dean Martin has the con-
genial job of p.t.-instructor. The
gangster follows, and the
resultant comedy gives the shrill-j
voiced comedian plenty of
opportunities for laughs. Also
he brings-off some skilled
dancing.
Stage and Music
“Simon and Laura”
Alan Melville’s “Simon and
Laura” moved to His Majesty’s
in Brisbane for the Christmas
period, and the comedy about a
husband-and-wife team in a
TV-show was frothy enough to
suit the holiday season and
shrewd enough in its shafts at
TV ballyhoo to suit those who
don’t feel like shedding their
wits simply because they are on
holidays.
Googie Withers continued to
be the main attraction in the
play, proving as attractive and
skilled an actress as her films
always suggested. Her relaxed
comedy-making was a lesson
to other actresses who strain
every muscle in throat and limb
in an effort to be funny.
The private squabbles of
radio-actors have been worked-
over pretty thoroughly in other
plays, but Melville makes this
one spin-out effectively for most
of its three acts by switching
from radio to TV and by litter-
ing his stage with all the para-
phernalia of a TV-studio. When
the plot looks like running thin,
the lights flicker and a pro-
gramme is televised before our
eyes. Not drama, but novel
enough to be interesting.
To this is added the appalling
jargon of TV through the mouth
of a new and amazing creature
in the entertainment world, the
TV-producer. Charles Tingwell
was able to steal several scenes
as he strode through this part
with a robot-like walk and the
necessary heavy spectacles.
As well as playing the husband
of the play, John McCallum was
the producer and, as Brisbane
is his home-town, he was
possibly demonstrating that it
is probably no bad thing that
TV and its horrors still lie some
years off. Brisbane, of course, is
one of the places not on the TV-
schedule for Australia, so it will
be a long time before we sit
solemnly in the evening darkness
watching the activities of the
Simons and Lauras that are sure
to appear on our own television-
screens.
D.J.M.
“Sinbad”
Melbourne Tiv. has resus-
citated “Sinbad,” with Jenny
Howard us that hero, Gordon
Chater as Mrs. Sinbad —whose
inability to pay her taxes
causes her son to become
a sailor Ray Hartley as
the Old Man of the Sea and
Leone Scarlett as the Fairy
Aphrodite.
Except for the Fairy Aphro-
dite’s passion for making long
moral speeches there are no dull
moments in the proceedings, and
the comedy of Low ahd Hite and
the eminent Billy Russell as
Tinbad the Tailor is satisfactory
to the children, who are also
thoroughly enchanted by the
ballets of juveniles brought
before the footlights from the
Olive Wallace school of dancing.
& & ❖
“Puss in Boots”
“Puss in Boots” at the Metro-
politan Theatre, Sydney, is a
play for children, not a panto.
Playwright Nicholas Stuart Gray
has developed the old story with
some charm, but aims at enter-
taining adults also, and, in doing
so, often shoots over the heads
of his juvenile audience.
There is a very good Ogre,
however, with an inferiority
complex and a Lancashire
accent (well played by Phillip
Colledge), a Puss with a well-
defined personality but an
atrocious color-sense, a pretty
Princess (Lynette Potier) and a
rather too ingenuous Hero
(William Hobbs).
The pace of the play, pro-
duced by Lesley Lindsay, is too
slow for children; the scene-
shifting should be simplified to
prevent long, tiresome waits
between scenes.
Artbursts
Student Show
Anyone who wants to know
what Melbourne art was like in
1955, and what its prospects of
development are in the future,
has only to visit the annual ex-
hibition of students’ work at the
city’s National Gallery.
The work of the young
students is as like that of their
adult masters as one Housing
Commission suburb is like
another. Fancy - free, the
students, male and female,
have let themselves loose
among the latest fashions with
all the innocent enthusiasm of
young ladies in a beauty-parlor,
and, to change the metaphor a
trifle, they have all come out of
the shop with the same hat. The
results are so completely accord-
ing to the patterns dictated by the
prevailing arbiters of art-fashions
that even the judges, Messrs.
Arnold Shore, Clive Turnbull
and William Frater, have been
moved to remark regretfully,
apropos the landscape-section,
that “there is a lack of individual
reaction to the Australian scene,
and formula seems to have come
before observation.”
That is putting it rather mildly
—the landscapes can’t be accused
of being natural, any more than
the nudes can be accused of
being fleshy, the threequarter-
nude which won the Grace Joel
prize for a half-nude being no
exception.
How far paint can be tortured
without actually letting out
audible screams is best seen in
the picture which gained first-
prize in the still-life division.
Still, there is nothing else in the
section any better.
The first-prize picture of
Mongol refugees in the subject-
painting section isn’t half-bad,
and, if the judges liked that, why
did they give the first-prize for
drawing to F. F. Macfarlane’s
three dancers resting, which is as
academic as they make ’em?
The general impression given
by this student-exhibition is that
standards of good drawing and
observation have been forgotten,
and that the > future generation
is being taught a lot of fashion-
able nonsense that will land it
eventually on the artistic scrap-
heap—it is an observed fact that
fashions change with every
generation.
M.G.S.
Artists are almost as thick as
possums and koalas on Sydney’s
Palm Beach peninsula, and one
is likely to stumble on all manner
of artistic activity anywhere
between Newport and Barren-
joey. Music, too, apparently
flourishes in the same climate,
the latest manifestation being a
festival of open-air opera by the
Sydney Opera Group at the
Avalon School Theatre. The
dates-are January 14, 20, 21, 27
and 28, and the acceptances in-
clude Wolf-Ferrari’s “The Secret
of Susanna,” Mozart’s “The Im-
presario” and Menotti’s “The
Telephone” and “Amahl and the
Night Visitors.”


The Village Hampden
By
E.O. Schlunke
PART II
STANDING on the sidelines
between these less-than-
satisfactory experiences,
Tom knew that he didn’t
look a particularly happy
personality. It did not
improve his temper to have
Ritter come sidling up to
him. Ritter was there as the
representative of the Belluga
committee, who mever allowed
their players to spend a moment
of their waking lives unsuper-
vised. On Saturday nights, and
on Saturday nights only, a
little relaxation in the way of
staying up late and taking a
few drinks was permitted, but
someone in authority had to be
there to see that a prescribed
moderation was observed.
Ritter, considering the thrashing
his team had received, was
inexplicably cheerful.
“You seem to be a bit out of
luck tonight,” he said.
“Only a momentary infatua-
tion,” Tom informed him.
“She’s been like that before, I
believe. It doesn’t mean a
thing.”
“Ah, not like this,” Ritter
said, nodding his head with an
assurance that made Tom want
to knock it off his shoulders.
Tom moved away and found
Daphne’s father in one of the
smaller rooms of the hall bored
over a game of cards, impatient'
for the dance to be over so he
could go home. Tom helped him
to escape from the cards, got
him a drink of whisky and sat
down beside him, thinking how
admirable was the stability of
the adult person.
“I’ve got a lot of work to do
tomorrow,” McDonald said.
“Sunday is the same as any other
day to me. Has to be, because I
can’t get enough help.”
“Could 1 be of any use to
you?” Tom offered, was
pretty desperate.
“Well, I believe you could,”
McDonald said. “There’s a lot
of book-work to classing a stud-
flock ; you’d probably be able
to do it as well as anybody.”
“I’ll come out tomorrow,”
said Tom. “And on Monday,
too. We’re having a long week-
end*”
“That’s a lot of trouble for
you,” said McDonald. “Why
not come home with me tonight
and stay for the weekend?”
They talked agreeably for a
long time. Tom let him wander
with his sheep, asked him ques-
tions and got to rather like old
McDonald. The old man’s
interests were few, but hfs
knowledge of sheep and wool
was wide, profound and scien-
tific ; and he had that kind of
enthusiasm for his work which
can make a man interesting.
Tom drove the McDonalds’
Jaguar home after the dance,
still talking sheep, while Daphne
went to sleep alone in a bundle
of rugs.
He got hold of some of Mc-
Donald’s books on management
of sheep-studs and spent the
remainder of the night reading
them.
Tom was a quick-study. For-
tunately, his eyesight, also, was
good. There are not many men,
so McDonald assured him, who
can distinguish the various
spinning-counts of wool without
years of training. That Tom
could do it with reasonable
accuracy almost immediately he
thought miraculous.
Tom soon learned something
about the habits of sheep, too ;
how to induce them to go into
the yards when they are nervous
or obstinate; how to hold them
while McDonald examined them
minutely; how to win the co-
operation of sheep-dogs by a
show of exuberance mixed with
firmness; how to please Mc-
Donald by properly-timed ex-
pressions of admiration; when
to keep quiet while he pondered
a difficult decision. He even
showed McDonald how to
simplify his book-work by using
one of the comprehensive tables
he’d studied in the handbooks
between the hours of three and
four that morning.
Altogether a most successful
beginning.
Tom didn’t see much of
Daphne until the afternoon,
when she came to make a be-
lated offer to do some clerical
work for her father. Even then
he didn’t speak much with her,
except to contradict her when
she made a questionable state-
ment about the relative merits
of her father’s best rams.
“AP—-535z wins because he
has superior style,” Tom said,
showing off. That is rather a
failing of Tom’s; he can never
understand anyone resenting his
always being right.
McDonald nodded his agree-
ment.
“He’s a born sheepman,” he
said, grinning at Daphne.
Tom was surprised at the
mortification in Daphne’s face.
He realised quickly that it was
she who usually helped in these
weekend jobs and received her
father’s praise. Now she was
put out.
“I won’t stay here and be in-
sulted,” she said. “I’ll go and
watch the Cup match.”
“But we’re not playing for
the Cup today.” Tom put her
right again.
“I know we’re not, but Wag-
hurst is!”
“Ah,” he said, taking the bait
deliberately, “that fellow. Johnny
Payne. You’d better be careful.
If the committee hears that
you’re encouraging a member
of a rival team they’ll have you
on the carpet.”
“Do you think so?” she asked,
taking a good look at him and,
he thought, enjoying his
jealousy. “Then I’ll go to the
Waghurst match.”
She went, too; leaving Tom
to revise his ideas about her. She
wasn’t quite as innocent as he’d
thought and a bit perverse. But
he didn’t like her any the less
for it, quite the contrary. He
felt sure they’d be good friends
again before the weekeiid was
over, but somehow or other
they’d started a competition,
each trying to show the more
indifference to each other.
CJEVERAL more weekends
Tom went out, and each time
something he said would start
it off again ; he’d just begin to
explain how a radio worked or
why the moon looked larger
when it was rising and Daphne
would say, “There he goes again.
He’s a perfect scientist as well
as a perfect sheepman.”
But Tom and her father be-
came more and more friendly
as he became more adept and
more interested in the work of
the place, and if he didn’t seem
to be making much progress with
Daphne he never lost sight of
The Story So Far: Tom
Mathgson, a schoolteacher new
to the “football-town” of
Belluga, finds himself ostracised
until he pays his subscription to
the football-club. Still rebellious,
he meets Daphne McDonald,
daughter of a grazier who has
“donated” £lOOO towards the
club’s buildings under tacit
threat of having his land
resumed. Tom falls in love
with Daphne, but the football-
committee - members, Ward,
Ritter and Townshend, finding
that the star-player of a rival
team, Johnny Payne, is attracted
to Daphne, have other plans.
These are hinted-at by Ritter at
a dance where Tom has to watch
his beloved being monopolised
by Johnny Payne.
his determination to dethrone
the Beljuga bullies.
One day he said to McDonald,
“Tell me, honestly, just what do
you think of your football-
committee?”
This was, Tom explained to
me, the second crucial point in
his campaign ; he’d been build-
ing up background in several
directions all the time, and now
he was ready for action.
“I don’t exactly like them a
lot,” McDonald said.
“I’m surprised that a man
like you puts up with their
ways,” Tom told him.
“It’s a long story,” said Mc-
Donald. “I was a foundation-
member of the club when it was
a very fine thing for the town.
The football-club was our way
of giving the young fellows
something to think of besides
booze and s.p. It was our idea
to get everyone in the town
working for it. We invented the
rules that made everyone come
in, and we meant well by it.”
“All the same,” Tom persisted,
“don’t you think there should
be a showdown about the way
the present committee goes on?”
“It would be very hard. You
see, everyone feels that his
loyalty is involved. That hun-
dred - per - cent, unquestioning
support has been drilled into
them so long.”
“You’re dodging the issue,”
Tom told him. “Don’t you feel
that you ought to do something
about it?”
“Not unless I’ve got a cleaf-
cut issue that a reasonable num-
ber of people can understand.”
“Well, tell me what you think
of this,” and Tom brought out
the bomb he’d been saving up
for him. “Since I’ve been taking
an interest in sheep and talking
to people about them I’ve dis-
covered that your precious com-
mittee has been questioning
your customers about the quality
of your rams, and they’ve en-
couraged anyone who’s been
inclined to complain. Now,
what do you think of that ?”
“I don’t like it at all,” said
McDonald.
“If they try to squeeze
another thousand-pounds out of
you, will you submit?”
“Oh, they wouldn’t do that,”
McDonald said worriedly.
“They’re decent enough fellows
in their way.”
“My opinion,” Tom assured
him, “is that they’re up to some-
thing nasty. I’ve been waiting
for an opportunity to burst
their show wide open, and this
might be it. So, since it looks
as if you’re going to feature in
it, I want you to know that I’ll
help you all I can.”
“That’s mighty good of you,”
McDonald said gratefully. But
he was uneasy. “You see, last
time they didn’t actually de-
mand that thousand-pounds; I
was in a bad situation and
needed their help.” .
“And they took a mean
advantage of you. But we
won’t let it happen again. I’ll
try to find out beforehand what
they’re up to, so that we can
be ready for them.”
Tom told me how absurd it
seemed to be talking in that con-
spiratorial fashion out there on
the wide-open sheepfarm under
the pleasant late-winter sun-
shine.
X|UT a few nights later the
committee came tramping
up his stairs again. Ritter came
in first, with his affability well
to the fore.
“Nothing to be afraid of this
time,” he said. “We’re coming
as friends.”
Tom couldn’t sink to the
hypocrisy of offering them rum,
or even putting a pile of wood
on the fire.
“For the good, of the club,”
said Ward, “we want a little
help from you, and I feel sure
we’ll get it.”
Whatever Ward said sounded
like a threat. Ritter realised it,
and immediately offered some
of his dubious tact.
“I hear you’ve been out to
McDonald’s lately, learning to
be a sheepfarmer.”
“That’s right,” said Tom. “I
find it very interesting.”
“I suppose he pays you well?”
Ward made this sound very sig-
nificant.
“Weekend penalty-rates and
all that,” Tom winked at them
and rubbed his hands, gestures
he thought they would under-
stand. He’d refused to take a
penny, but he didn’t want them
to know it.
“Never try to do a line with
his girl?” This from the blunt
Pull Townshend.
“I hardly ever see Daphne.
She’s usually away watching the
Waghurst football-team. You
should do something about
that; she ought to be watching
and encouraging her own
team.”
They looked enormously in-
terested in this remark. Ward,
particularly, seemed to be
secretly pleased and amused, but
he said to Tom reproachfully,
“We know when we ought to
take action about the behavior
of any of our members.”
“You wouldn’t be thinking
too highly of a girl who treated
you like that, would you, now?”
Ritter moved in with some of
his second-class subtlety. “That
makes it all the easier for you,
and for us, and, most important,
for the club.”
“I don’t understand,” Tom
said, relieved to be able to make
an uncomplicated remark. “I
can’t see how anything I do is
going to affect the club.”
“We’d better tell him,” Ritter
said to the others ; “then he’ll
know exactly how he’s to act.”
Then, rather reluctantly, they
told him. They were out to do
a masterpiece for their club —
to get Johnny Payne to play for
them without it costing them a
penny. Daphne was to marry
Johnny Payne, and her father
was to set him up as joint-heir
of a valuable property with an
assured income.
The latter part of the pro-
posed arrangement was most
desirable because of the great
uneasiness which assails all
clubs which employ paid players
—the possibility that their
hirelings will be got-at by big
bettors on important matches.
As a wealthy man Johnny Payne
would be immune to bribery.
“It’s a wonderful scheme!”
Ritter was beaming happily.
“Everything perfect.”
Tom swore to me that he
didn’t think it possible for any-
one to be as savage as he felt
at that moment and not show
it. But he managed to keep his
rage to himself ; it was the train-
ing he’d had in the past few
weeks in concealing his feelings.
Moreover, he was now certain
that this was his big oppor-
tunity of getting something he
could use against them.
“I don’t see what this has to
do with me.” He determined to
be as obtuse as possible and to
put on a show of indifference.
“Why have you come to me
about it?”
“To warn you off Daphne,”
Townshend told him with his
usual bluntness.
“I don’t think that’s neces-
sary,” Ward remarked with an
assurance which Tom found
just as maddening ; “but what
we do want is some help from
you in approaching her father.
We want to make sure of him
approving of his daughter
marryirtg Johnny Payne; then
it will be easier to get him to
make the financial arrange-
ments.”


m
m
i
Old heads on
young shoulders
Look this is why Stamina clothes last so long and look so
good! They’re all made from the finest, pure-wool Crusader
cloth! Did you know that ?”
“Of course l It means our Stamina trousers and knickers
are guaranteed to be made from pure wool cloth, and guar-
anteed never to fade or shrink.”
Yes, and Mother says they’re also guaranteed to give years
of hard wear.” 3
“They’re so comfortable and good-looking, too. Somehow
I feel good when I’m wearing Stamina. And that means I
work better and play better.”
“Stamina clothes certainly are wonderful. And Mother
says they cost so very little.”
ASK FOR
Stamina
K-B KNICKERS and
YOUTHS’ TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
8W6.113
“Yes, yes,” Ritter chipped in ;
“it’ll be a very delicate matter
to get McDonald to see it the
right way, and since you are
such a good friend Of his, we
feel that you are the right man
to persuade him.”
'THIS enraged Tom more than
ever—their calm assurance
that they had him under com-
plete subjection. It showed
what an absolute tyranny they
held over the village; that they
expected everyone to work for
them no matter what his private
feelings might be.
“What if he’s opposed to it?”
“He shouldn’t be,” Ward
stated. “He’s one of our oldest
members, and he’s always stood
by us.”
“You’ve never asked so much
of him before, I imagine,” said
Tom.
Ritter came in again with
some of his logic.
“Why should he oppose it?
It’s his daughter that he’d be
helping. She’s in love with
Johnny Payne and he’d
naturally want her to marry the
man she loves. He’d also want
to see that she was set-up in the
comfort to which she’s been
accustomed; she’s his only
child. They’d get his property
when he died. So where’s the
sense in making them wait until
then?”
Suddenly Tom remembered
the inquiries they’d been making
about McDonald’s sheep.
“I’ve got my doubts about
him agreeing to your financial
arrangements,” he said. “He’s
got very conservative ideas
about the wisdom of allowing
young people to have a lot of
money. He’s the cautious old
Scots type, you know.”
“We got a new dressing-shed
out of him,” Townshend
boasted. \
“He’s pretty sore about that.”
Tom became a little imaginative.
“He won’t let you do that sort
of thing again. His property is
safe from resumption this time.”
“Oh, is it just!” It was
Townshend again.
Ritter frowned at Townshend,
but it was too late. Tom sud-
denly saw what they had in
reserve; a move to have the
Lands Department’s decision
about McDonald’s property re-
versed, on the grounds that his
stud-stock were unsatisfactory.
He assured me that he had
gone right past rage; he had
achieved a state of cool clarity.
He suddenly saw a line of cam-
paign, and decided to follow it
immediately, even though it
involved a complete change of
front.
“You needn’t be so cautious
with me,” he told them. “I’m
on your side. You wouldn’t ex-
pect me to feel too friendly to-
wards McDonald if you knew
how I’d worked myself to a
standstill for him for half-a-
dozen weekends, and then his
girl still turns me down.”
Bull Townshend laughed
crudely. “He’s got a right to
be riled.”
But Ritter looked dissatisfied.
“So you didn’t go out and work
there just for the money?”
“Money,” Tom said, with
affected bitterness. “He never
gave me a penny.”
Bull Townshend laughed
again.
“No girl and no money,” said
Ward, looking at Tom as if
he’d been a prize dupe. “He’ll
be on our side all right. I
reckon we can trust him to do
his best. But if you can’t do it
the gentle way, I’ll tell you,
we’ve got a way of putting the
screw on him.”
Ritter still wore a doubtful
air. Tom was afraid he was
going to ask him why he was
prepared to assist in a plot
which would help to marry
Daphne to Johnny, and he didn’t
have a sound answer ready. He
decided that the safest thing to
do was to forestall his question.
“You’ll need to act quickly,”
he said to Ward. “Other clubs
are making their arrangements
for the next season.”
“Gosh, yes, I know that,”
Ward agreed. “That’s the
trouble. That’s why we’ve got
to rush this thing. We want you
to go out to McDonald’s
tomorrow.”
Tom stood up briskly.
“All right, I’ll ,go out first
thing after lunch tomorrow ; I’ll
miss half a day’s school. If
I’m not back at the pub by
dinner-time it will mean that I
need help. Then you can come
in with your heavy artillery ; 'let
McDonald know what he can
expect if he doesn’t co-operate.”
■pROM this stage of the story
on Tom could never sit still;
he’d spring up and march to and
fro on the sands, his eyes flash-
ing and his fists clenched while
he described the final events.
The next morning very
busy with the school duplica-
tor doing a job, which, he told
me, gave him more pleasure
than anything he could remem-
ber except his first dance with
Daphne. He made forty copies
of his farewell-address to his
class, in which he told them
exactly what he thought of
Belluga’s tyrannical football-
committee.
He put the manifestos into
forty sealed envelopes, which he
told the class to take home with
the utmost* secrecy, and open
only when they were alone, at
nine-o’clock that night. By that
time, he knew, he would be an
outlaw in the eyes of Belluga,
and it wouldn’t be safe for him
to appear in the town.
At lunch-time he told the
headmaster he was ill; got per-
mission to return to his hotel,
got on to his motorbike and
was off to McDonald’s.
His plan was by no means
simple. He had to convince
McDonald that the time had
arrived to resist the committee
openly. Then, to protect him
from reprisals, he had to carry
out a delicate scheme, for which
he had already laid the founda-
tions in his last interview with
the committee.
But that was only the lesser
part of his enterprise. He was
going to win Daphne away from
Johnny Payne as well. His
opinion at this stage was that
her dalliance was half a tempor-
ary infatuation and half a means
of deliberately tantalising him,
or punishing him, or something
feminine like that.
At the McDonald homestead
he saw an awkward complica-
tion ; a small car was parked
there, which he recognised as
belonging to Johnny Payne.
However, he walked straight into
the house, as a man accustomed
to the place and not without
some purpose.
McDonald was not at home,
and it was a relief to Tom to
find the two young people
formally occupied. Daphne was
showing Johnny over the house,
talking with much enthusiasm
about the solid old oak dining-
room furniture which had served
the McDonalds for so many
generations, the cedar sideboards
and such things as women grow
proud of.
It was some consolation to
Tom, too, to observe that
Johnny had a decidedly dumb
and awkward look on his face.
He needed a football-field and
a crowd of excited people to
set him off to advantage. It was
a simple matter for Tom to take
Daphne away from him for a
brief private talk.
“Be careful what you do,” he
said, looking her straight in the
eyes, with what he admitted
to me with wisdom-after-the-
event was a severe, school-
masterly manner; “there’s
serious trouble developing for
your father. I walked out of
school to help him, but he’ll
need your help, too.”
“You picked a bad time for
it,” she said; and something
about the way she said it, with
a warning in her eyes, showed
him at last that it was his school-
masterish infallibility and
authority which had provoked
her coolness towards him and
installed Johnny securely in his
place in h6r affections. “You
can see that I’m busy, and
Father is out at the back of the
property somewhere.”
“Look, Daphne,” he said,
taking her hand with a despera-
tion to which she did not
respond in the least, “I’d much
rather stay here and tell you
how fond I am of you, but the’
situation is too threatening for
your father. I’ve got to find him
immediately.”
She warmed a little at that,
though he didn’t know whether
it was out of consideration for
him or her father. He went on
hurriedly.
“Whatever you do, don’t get
entangled with this fellow
Johnny. Wait until I’ve had a
talk with you.”
And without waiting to see
what effect this warning had on
her he rushed off. The after-
noon was more than half gone
before he found the old man.
McDonald was furious at the
coolness with which the commit-
tee proposed to dispose of both
his daughter and his money. He
was also uneasy.
“If they get up a petition to
have my land resumed and col-
lect a lot of signatures, I’ve no
doubt I’d lose my property.”
“I’ve got a plan,” Tom as-
sured. him, and explained it.
McDonald thought it over, and
finally agreed to go through with
it.
“I hope that she isn’t really
fond of that fellow,” he said.
“Somehow I just couldn’t
stomach him. It’s not simply
because he isn’t the old country-
family type I’d hoped she’d
marry. After all you’re not that
type, yet you’d fit in and soon
learn to carry on this place the
way I’ve always tried to run it.
But he would never get the
right outlook at all.”
TDACK at the homestead they
** found that Daphne had pre-
pared an elaborate afternoon- <
tea. It encouraged Tom to see
it; not that he had any appetite
in the excited state he was in,
but it indicated that she had not
been preoccupied romantically.
Like more than one other young
girl, entertaining a young man
for the first time in her family’s
home, she had, consciously or
otherwise, set out to impress
him with her family’s refinement.
The tea was put out formally
in the lounge-room, with the
usual polite feminine impedi-
ments to hearty feeding. Flimsy
little half-a-bite sandwiches, dis-
integrating savories, plates to be
balanced on the knee, cake-forks
to be manipulated, cups so deli-
cately made that a sturdy foot-
baller’s first finger wouldn’t fit
through the handle—it was all
an embarrassment to Johnny,
whose idea of an afternoon-
snack was probably a couple of
hot pies in one hand, and beer
from the bottle. Daphne could
not have been enjoying it, either.
Her father was tense and
worried, and both he and Tom
were obviously eager to have
Johnny out of the way.
“Some young couples,” Tom
said, ostensibly to her father, at
a moment when nobody needed
any of Daphne’s attention, “are
fortunate in having their futures
agreeably arranged for them.
Usually it’s the parents who do
it; not many have the honor of
having it done for them by a
football-committee.”
He was encouraged b y
Daphne’s look of alarm.
“Of course,” he went on,
“when the committee has the
o Continued on page 22)


m
:!f«»
w
Wi
Advance booking essential
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
O Ultra Modern Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Between
Ourselves
■—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
consideration to pick an out-
standingly able and popular
player for a girl who has shown
a decided admiration for that
same young man, the girl should
have nothing but gratitude.”
Johnny gave an involuntary
guffaw. Tom sat staring at him,
waiting.
“I didn’t need much encourage-
ment from them,” Johnny said.
“I’d picked Daphne out as a
good sort long before they put
their proposition to me.”
McDonald winced. So did
Daphne.
“Nice proposition they offered
you too, wasn’t it?” Tom said.
“A lovely girl and a sheep-
station. Did they say anything
to you about expecting you to
breed half-a-team of foot-
ballers?”
Johnny gave a great laugh.
That was the sort of pre-marital
joke he could appreciate. But
Daphne jumped up and ran out
of the room. There followed a
very awkward pause.
“Look here, young man,”
McDonald said in a protective,
fatherly manner, “you’ve been
very much misled. If you suc-
ceed in marrying my daughter I
have no intention of setting you
up in luxury. As a matter of
fact I would not approve of her
marrying you at all, and I feel
sure that presently she will see
things my way.”
Johnny stood up. He still had
a teacup in his hands, but he
didn’t seem to realise it until his
nervous twistings broke the
fragile handle. That seemed to
upset him more than ever.
Daphne apparently had im-
pressed him with the value of
that teaset.
“Don’t worry about the cup,”
McDonald told him. He could
see that Johnny was a decent
young fellow.
Johnny swallowed a couple of
times and put the cup away as
if he was expecting it to
crumble in his hands. “I always
reckoned we weren’t the same
kind,” he said with a sincerity
which Tom found disarming.
“But when that committee of
yours told me it’d be 0.K., and
she seemed to be so nice and
friendly, I wasn’t going to knock
my good luck.”
McDonald went over to him
and put a friendly hand on his
arm. “I’m only concerned
about my daughter’s happiness,”
he said. “I’d appreciate it if you
would just give her a bit of time
to think it over.”
“I’ll do that,” Johnny nodded
his head vigorously. “I’ll go
now.”
At the door he paused and
looked back. He was recovering
some of his assurance. “If you
want somebody to give any of
those committeemen a punch on
the nose, just let me know.”
Then he went. Through the
window they saw him walk
jauntily to his car.
“Now there’s only the com-
mittee,” McDonald said.
T'OM hid his motorbike in one
of the sheds, while Mc-
Donald saw to it that all the
doors and windows of the home-
stead were locked. As it grew
dark, they persuaded Daphne
into the Jaguar, and without
switching on the lights drove
into a patch of trees where the
car would be invisible from the
homestead.
Tom sat alone in the back
seat out of consideration for
Daphne’s feelings. She was silent
for a long time while they
watched and waited. When she
spoke she was reassuringly calm,
and what she said, Tom decided,
was to be considered encourag-
ing.
“Why couldn’t we stay at the
house and tell the committee
what we think of them?”
“It’s no use talking to those
people,” Tom said, trying not to
sound didactic. “They’re so sure
they’re right. It’s just a waste of
time.”
Then along the road from
Belluga came the lights of a car.
It might have been the cold
frostiness of the night, Tom told
me, and the fact that in all the
turmoil he’d forgotten to bring
his overcoat, or it might have
been the nervous tension, but
Tom found that he was shivering
violently. In a delicately sprung
car he couldn’t hide a thing like
that. Presently Daphne said,
“You must be terribly cold back
there alone. Would you like to
come in front and share our
rug?”
He discovered that Daphne
was trembling too, and gave her
hand a reassuring squeeze.
The car turned into Mc-
Donald’s gate and they fell silent.
There was no doubt that the com-
mittee was puzzled by the dark-
ness of the house. Tom screwed
down one of the car-windows.
A violent knocking on the front
door came clearly through the
still, frosty air. Then a torch
shone as the men walked round
the house, and knocked still
more loudly on the back door.
“That sounds like Bull Town-
shend in action,” Tom said.
The visitors prowled around
the place for an extraordinarily
long time; shining their torch
in through windows, apparently
unable to make up their minds
to do.
“They’ll be thinking that this
is a lot worse,” Tom said, “than
knocking on room thirty-seven
when I was in room forty-five.”
The visitors went round to the
front again. The torch shone
steadily for a long time in one
place, then there was a movement
of it for quite a while as if a
discussion were taking place,
then it wavered up and down
to the front-door ; a brief pause,
and then they went down the
path to the garcj|n-gate,, out to
their car and drove away.
The watchers waited until the
headlights had disappeared on
the way to Belluga, then drove
back to the homestead.
Tom ran straight to the front
door; he gave a shout, because,
as he had hoped, there was a
note pushed under it. It was
addressed to McDonald, but he
grabbed it and read it:
We know you are up to some-
thing, but you won’t get away
with it. We can deal with you.
We’ve got a petition already
signed to get your property cut-
up if you don’t do your duty to
the club.
The best of it was that it was
signed by all three of them.
Ritter’s signature was last, and
at a distance from the others, as
if he’d put it down reluctantly
and against his better judgment.
It was the first of Tom’s great
moments on that evening.
“We’ve got them! ” he shouted.
“Clear evidence of attempted
blackmail. Just what we
wanted.”
Highly excited, they made tea,
which they now suddenly needed
very badly. While they drank it
they talked.
“Let them start as much
trouble as they like,” Tom said.
“Then we’ll bring a blackmail
case against them. That will
make a tremendous impact on
Belluga. Just what I want;
something that will shake the
whole community.”
Daphne supported him
enthusiastically.
A T this stage, Tom told me, he
had a feeling that in future
everything was going to go
wonderfully for him; no tele-
pathic warning that the worst of
his trouble was upon him until
they heard a shattering knock
on the front door.
“Bull Townshend,” Tom said
immediately. It had that un-
mistakable sound of threatened
violence. He grabbed the pre-
cious letter, and at the same time
said to McDonald, “You hold
them for two-minutes while I
hide this.”
He had only just time. There
were two of them, Ward and
Townshend, and they were
dangerously angry. It was easy
enough for Tom to deduce what
had happened. On the way back
to Belluga Ritter must have con-
vinced them that it had been a
mistake to leave the letter; or
perhaps someone in town had
done it —in a hotel bar probably.
They both smelled strongly of
rum.
When Tom came into the
room they cornered him.
“You and your lies and trick-
ery,” Ward said, so savagely that
Daphne gave a little cry of fear.
“Don’t argue with him.”
Townshend pushed Ward aside.
“He’ll only try to trick you
again.”
He made a quick grab and got
Tom by the arm.
“Come on,” he said, shaking
him in his powerful grip,
“Where’s the letter? Give it
back.”
Tom struggled but he was a
lightweight. Townshend twisted
his arm behind his back and held
him helpless. Tom turned to
Ward, outraged and indignant.
“Make him behave himself,”
he demanded. “You can’t go
bursting into peoples’ homes
demanding things like this.”
“You asked for it,” Ward
replied, in the tone of virtue
betrayed. “What else do you
expect when you go about trick-
ing decent people?”
“Leave him alone,” McDonald
ordered. “Please remember that
you’re in my house. What he did
was quite justified. I was in it
too.”
“He led you into it,” Ward
asserted.
“Don’t waste time talking,”
Bull Townshend shouted. Then
to Tom with another shake,
“Come on, hand over that letter.”
“Don’t be a fool,” Tom told
him. “You can’t frighten me
into making me do what I don’t
want to.”
“Frighten you! ” Townshend
laughed. “I won’t frighten you.
This is what I’ll do.”
He gave Tom’s arm such a
savage twist that he lifted him
right off his feet. Tom couldn’t
help yelping. Daphne screamed ;
McDonald made for Town-
shend ; but Ward got in his way
threateningly. He was twice as
big a man as McDonald and a
lot younger.
“Ring the police,” Tom
shouted to Daphne.
He admitted to me that at
this stage he was so desperate
that the prospect of Daphne
being forcibly prevented did not
restrain him ; he even anticipated
how effective a few bruises would
be as evidence in an assault-case.
But the committeemen did not
attempt to prevent her leaving
the room. They laughed heartily.
“The police won’t hurt us,”
Ward asserted with his smug
assurance. “We’re their best
friends. They know that we
keep order in the town.”
It was a bleak moment for
Tom. Townshend had started
twisting his arm and demanding
the letter again. When it wasn’t
hurting too much for him to
speak, Tom got some satisfaction
out of telling Townshend and
Ward what he thought of them.
He told them about his letters
to the children, too. When
Daphne returned he’d been
reduced to rather a wreck. All
this, he told me, had a night-
marish quality, but he did
remember how Daphne’s nice,
innocent blue eyes flamed at
Townshend with an anger he
hadn’t imagined possible in her.
“Let him go, you beast!” she
demanded.
For a moment Tom thought
she was going to hit him with
one of the family’s old silver
candlesticks. But what she did
do surprised him.
“If you let him go, I’ll give
you the letter,” she said.
Townshend let go. Tom’s
relief was so great that he
almost thanked him.
“Where is it?”
“First tell me,” Daphne asked
calmly, “what you’re going to
do about Dad’s property?”
They paused, momentarily at
a loss. Tom took advantage of
the situation to give McDonald
a significant look. Daphne
didn’t know where the letter was,
and she was obviously playing
for time. “Yes, what are you
going to do about that?” Mc-
Donald demanded. “If we let
you off the blackmail action,
it’s up to you to undertake to
leave my affairs alone.”
Townshend, whose mind had
been wholly preoccupied with
retrieving the letter, and who
was now full of gratified triumph,
said, “Well, we got what we
wanted! ”
But Ward was more alert.
“No,” he snapped. “When
we’ve got the letter back we’ve
got nothing to worry about.”
“Ah, no,” Tom interjected
recklessly. “You can’t do that;
Daphne doesn’t want to marry
Johnny Payne.”
He declared to me that in his
anxiety to see how Daphne
reacted to this presumption he
forgot for the moment the need
to keep clear of Townshend’s
clutches. It was an, unfortunate
slip. Townshend grabbed him,
and after another one-sided
struggle, twisted his arm again.
"OUT by now Tom, Daphne
" and her father were keyed-up
to the need to keep the discus-
sion going. Daphne asserted
strongly that she couldn’t pos-
sibly marry Johnny ; McDonald
protested that he wouldn’t think
of supporting Johnny in the
manner the committee had pro-
posed, even if she did marry
him. Each time Tom opened
his mouth to join in Townshend
twisted his arm more cruelly.
At last there came a knock at
the door, a good, authoritative
sort of knock. Daphne sprang
from the room before Ward or
Townshend could intervene.
“The police! ” McDonald
shouted hopefully.
The two men looked at each
other unperturbed, even though
they could hear heavy footsteps
coming down the hall, accom-
panied by Daphne’s light ones
which seemed to be performing
a delighted dance, and her voice
explaining excitedly.
“In here,” she said jubilantly
as she opened the door.
It wasn’t a policeman who
came in. It was Johnny Payne.
He took one look at Tom
screwed-up in Townshend’s grip
and at McDonald held at bay
by Ward. He hit Bull Town-
shend a terrific blow on the face
that sent him and Tom down
into an untidy heap on the floor.
Bull scrambled clumsily to his
feet, gave a roar and rushed at
Johnny with his head down.
Johnny chopped his face to
pieces and knocked him out.
Then just as coolly, efficiently
and brutally he did the same to
Ward.
“I hope,” Johnny said to old
McDonald, “that this makes me
right with you.”
When Ward and Townshend
had recovered sufficiently to sit
on the floor with their backs
propped against the wall Tom
gave them a schoolmasterly
lecture. It was exhilarating, he
assured me, to be able to say
what he liked to them without
getting his arm twisted.
“You were in a bad position
when you left your blackmailing
letter,” he reminded them, “but
now you’ve added assault and
battery and attempted robbery
with violence to your crimes.
We’ve got Johnny Payne here
as an independent witness. Even
dimwits like you should realise
by now that you are beaten. You
can’t attempt to put any pressure
on McDonald or anyone else
without obliging us to give you
the whole works in a court of
law. I hope that you can under-
stand that.”
They didn’t say anything, but
it was plain that they were con-
vinced. Then Johnny had some-
thing to say.
“You two better resign from
that football-committee; you’re
giving the game a bad name.
And that little creep Ritter,
too.”
“Yes,” McDonald demanded,
“and when you do it, see that
that old set of rules is ditched.”
“Above all,” Tom added, “get
off the backs of the school-
children.”
They dictated a few more
conditions to them and let them
go. And then Daphne got a
bottle of liniment and rubbed
it into Tom’s damaged arm.
A FTER so complete a victory
Tom could have gone back
to his school; but the raptur-
ously-described events of the
next few hours determined his
future in the sheep-raising
industry. He stayed on at the
McDonalds, and in a few weeks
he and Daphne were married.
From that point on in his
story he wanted to talk of noth-
ing but how happy he and
Daphne were; or about his re-
markable progress in mastering
the art of stud-sheep managing.
But as a teacher I was naturally
more interested in the subse-
quent events in Belluga.
“Oh, yes,” Tom told me,
“Daphne and I went and had
a look at the town after a
while. From what we saw we
could be sure that a revolu-
tionary change had taken place :
although it was in the height of
the football season, all the
schoolchildren were playing
marbles, a thing that hadn’t been
seen there for twenty years.”


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies . ** 2/-
Yearly 22/6
24
How to show your respect
for BelVs
mmm
.
YA
m s
Mss
mm
;% 4 .V.VoV->VAV">*
sUgf
■
mam
P§
1
■
1
mm.
mm
S&t.
m
si
m
VjXSM,
Sniff it .. • Inhale the mild yet full aroma
Sip it.. • How smooth it is, with no trace
of bite or harshness
Down it.. • Feel its warm, friendly glow
You simply cannot drown it!
BEITS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
‘
iioi
A
res
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES DISTILLED
& BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd • Distillers, Perth, Scotland • E5t.1825
The Beauty Treatment
By Nancy
Cato
SUMMER was coming early
this year. The young green
leaves of the plane-trees
lining the streets turned
and swung in a hot, dry wind,
and the blue sky was streaked
with wisps of feathery cloud.
Molly Crofton, before enter-
ing the glass doors of the “Even-
ing Recorder” building, lifted
her sensitive nose and sniffed at
the exciting scents of the land
breeze, that seemed to bring the
whole of the vast dry continent
into the city.
I to the hills will lift my nose,
from whence cometh my help,
she thought to herself.
But unfortunately the hot
wind and the glowing sun
brought to her nose something
far less welcome than the smell
of ripening wheat, the tang of
mallee scrub and eucalyptus-
covered slopes; they brought
also an annual crop of freckles.
She found these a great trial,
especially as her young sister
Celia was immune to them,
besides having enviably rosy
cheeks. To make it worse, her
father would insist that Celia’s
complexion was due to plenty of
sleep.
“Celia was in bed hours ago,”
he would say with a disapprov-
ing glance at the creamy pallor
that went with Molly’s red hair.
“And look what lovely pink
cheeks she has.”
Molly resolved to buy a huge,
shady straw hat and wear it all
the time this season; though it
was already too late —a pattern
of golden-brown dots decorated
each side of her nose. The
spring-sales were scarcely over,
yet the shop-windows were full
of summer hats, light cotton
dresses and bathing-costumes,
which were being sold at great
summer sales at five times their
cost-price and about three times
what they would be sold for at
the end of the season.
A/T ARSHALL’S, the biggest
store, with inter-State con-
nections, was one of the biggest
advertisers in the press and there-
fore a power behind the scenes.
“I want you to go up to
Marshall’s this morning and see
the advertising-manager, Molly,”
said the chief-of-staff in his mad-
dening drawl. “Turn in a puff-
par. on their new beauty-salon ;
about twelve-inches.”
“But I have an interview at
eleven, Mr. Parfitt.”
“I can’t help that,” he said
calmly. “This is important. It’s
got to go in today.” He rubbed
his dark curls slowly with one
hand, on which was a gold
signet-ring.
Molly turned up her eyes and
chewed the end of her pencil.
“Couldn’t someone from the
Social staff do it? It’s women’s-
page stuff.”
“No. They want someone who
can write. Let yourself go on the
color-schemes, like you do on
those art-gallery pieces. I told
’em you were good at that
descriptive stuff.”
Molly crunched hard on the
pencil and spat out several chips.
A puff-par. meant a tie-up with
advertising. It was a quid pro
quo for a paid advertisement;
the beauty-salon had already
been extensively advertised.
She put on her summer-weight
felt of pale yellow and went out,
noting that the jacaranda-trees
were already in bloom outside
the public-library, dropping their
blue flowers on the green grass.
“In sea-blue pools,” she mur-
mured, trying out phrases.
Beauty-salons! Bah!
The advertising-manager was
oilily affable. Before leading her
from his office to the new salon,
he leered at her slim legs. “I
bet you wear out a lot of stock-
ings,” he said. “What size do
you take? I’ll get you a couple
of pairs of fifteen-deniers. We
want this article to be a good
one.”
Molly gave him a look of
great coldness. “I don’t want
any, thank-you.”
She felt like telling him to go
to hell, and that she didn’t take
bribes. But the beauty-expert in
charge of the salon was so
charming, with her quaint
foreign accent, and so delighted
with all the new fittings of pol-
ished panelling and pastel-toned
leather, that she soon had Molly
enthusiastic, too.
“Now we weel give Madame
a sample facial-treatment,” said
the black-haired expert suddenly.
“Oh, no, I don’t” Molly
was protesting, when she found
herself thrust into a long, com-
fortable reclining-chair, her hat
whisked away, and masses of
cold-cream being smoothed into
her face.
“Madame has a nice fine skin,
but a leetle dry. All Australian
women have the dry skins, it ees
the climate.” She spoke sooth-
ingly while an assistant applied
and removed mysterious creams
and lotions.
When the facial and then the
make-up had been completed,
Molly sat up and looked at her-
self in horror. A painted mask
looked back at her: highly-
colored cheeks, carefully shaded
and expertly put on; red lips,
black-pencilled eyebrows, green
eyelids with a black line at the
edge, eyelashes stiff with mas-
cara.
She pretended to be delighted,
and hurried self-consciously
back to the office. She fancied
that there was an immediate
reaction, but not a favorable one,
among the critical boys in the
dogbox. She took off her hat
and popped her head into the
Social room. The editress gave
a raucous shout.
“Great God! You look like
Cleopatra! ”
“I feel like Jezebel.”
“You’d better go and wash
your face, child, before you get
yourself criminally assaulted.”
“I’m not going to wash it off.
It was free, but I can’t bear to
waste it.”
She went round and showed
her friend Roma of the women’s
magazine, who was impressed,
and said she was a fool not to
have taken the stockings too.
'T'HE article appeared as a
normal news-item that day,
on an early news-page, and set
in the same twelve-point minion
as the rest of the paper. There
was nothing to indicate that
thousands of pounds’ worth of
paid advertisements were behind
its appearance.
Molly’s mother made her wash
her face before dinner; she said
that the sight of it would give
her father indigestion. But,
though Molly did wash her face,
under protest, something still up-
set his delicate digestive organs ;
and she heard, after she was in
bed, the thumping and jingling
of loose coins ih pockets which
indicated that her father was
shadow-boxing and running-on-
the-spot in the hall in an effort
to dispel his discomfort by
exercise.
The nexf night Molly rushed
home from the office and washed
her hair before tea, drying it in
the sun where its red curls
glowed like fire. Made beauty-
care-conscious by her visit to
the Marshall salon, she had
bought some eye-shadow and a
bottle of some miraculous face-
pack that was supposed to
remove freckles “in one opera-
tion, absolute effectiveness
guaranteed, and entirely harm-
less to all but the most sensitive
skins.”
The last phrase sounded a
little ominous, but it was worth
trying. She always believed what
she read in labels, and she had
a particular reason for wanting
to have a dazzling white com-
plexion tonight, unmarred by the
small freckles that seemed to her
so large and disfiguring.
She had been asked out for
the evening by a handsome and
sophisticated member of the
staff who must be at least thirty,
if not older, and she was thrilled
that he had even noticed her.
After dinner she went to her
room, shut the door/ carefully
(for her mother was prejudiced
against things in bottles, and
believed that one could be
blinded or lose all one’s eye-
brows by using such prepara-
tions), and opened her bottom
drawer.
She delved for the tissue-
wrapped carton where she had
hidden it among her under-
clothes. It was there, but when
she unwrapped it and drew out
the bottle it was half-empty. She
tossed things wildly out of her
drawer, expecting to find her
things ruined, but the bottle had
not leaked, though the lid was
not tight.
“Frauds!” she muttered.
She took out the little brush
that went with the bottle and
painted the queer-smelling, thick
white stuff over her face, leaving
only her eyes and a thin area of
lips showing. As she peered at
her reflection in the mirror she
felt almost afraid of her own
face. There was something hate-
ful about it, with thin lips and
dark slits of eyes in an unhealthy,
pasty mask. A sudden thump
at her door, which crashed
immediately open, made her
jump.
“I wish you wouldn’t burst in
like that, Celia!” she snapped.
“I’ve told you and told you to
knock before you enter a lady’s
bedroom” ——
“ ’Tisn’t a lady’s bedroom, it’s
only yours,” said Celia. She
tossed her dark plaits, conscious
of her picture-book prettiness.
“00, you’ve got stuff on your
face! Mum-wee! Molly’s
got”
“Shut up!” said Molly, so
fiercely that Celia jumped.
“You do look awful,” she said,
half-afraid.
“Yes, but I’ll look beautiful
when I wash this off.”
“But that’s the stuff I put on
my doll’s face”
‘“yOU little beast!”
1 Molly made a swipe at
her with the hairbrush, but
missed.
“So that’s why the bottle was
half-empty! Do you know what
this stuff costs? Fifteen-and-
six! ”
“But I put it on my doll’s face,
and her face all melted,” said
Celia.
“What! ” Molly looked
anxiously at the white mask in
the mirror. It was now set like
plaster-of-Paris. Did she feel a
burning sensation beneath the
mask? Was her skin being
eaten away? With a yell she
flew to the bathroom and bathed
the horrid stuff off with warm
water. Her skin was rather red,
but did not seehi to be actually
peeling.
She went back to her room and
found Celia using her lipstick.
She snatched it and pushed her
out of the door. She dressed,
wishing that she had a slinky
black dress, and then began to
make-up her face with the
utmost care, the way they had
done it at the salon, but omitting
the rouge and the mascara. The
result was highly pleasing.
She pOsed in front of the
mirror with her tinted lids
droop ed languorously. She
looked down her nose with in-
effable disdain; she looked up
invitingly under her brows,
smiled, frowned, and tossed
back her red curls. Perhaps it
was just the powder over them,
but her freckles did seem to have
faded, and the mask had put a
glowing freshness in her skin.
Should she ask her mother for
a loan of her turquoise ear-rings?
She had been rather reluctant to
lend anything since Molly
borrowed, and lost, her best
brooch. Better not ask, per-
haps . . .
“Molly!”
It was her mother’s voice.
“Where are you going to-
night?” She coughed in the
scented mist of powder drifting
into the passage.
Molly opened the door, keep-
ing her back to the light so that
her mother’s keen eyes would
not see the eyeshadow.
“Out,” she said repressively.
“Yes, but where, and who
with? Your father and I”
“With Matt Anderson, from
the office. We’re going to—to
the pictures.”
They hadn’t decided where
they were going, but she would
have to say something definite.
‘ “I’m afraid you can’t go.”
Molly stared, and misgiving
became certainty. For mother’s
lips were set in a way she knew
well.
“But why ever not, Mummy?”
“Because you can’t. We don’t
know this man, and he seems
much too old for you. You’d
better ring him and say you can’t
come. Couldn’t he spend the
evening here?”
“Of course not!” cried Molly
passionately. She could just
imagine them all in the sitting-
room, her mother asking Matt
what he had for lunch, her
father going out for another
dose of carb. soda and coming
back to burp quietly to himself
behind the paper, Celia peeping
round the door and giggling . . .
It didn’t bear thinking of.
“But I must go! You can’t
stop me now. I’m all dressed
and ready.”
“I can’t help that, dear. You
must just make up your mind
to it.”
MOLLY glared at her help-
lessly. She knew how hope-
less it was to argue when
Mummy took one of these fits;
she would be unmoved by tears
or pleading. . .
“It’s ridiculous!” she cried.
“Treating me like a child. I tell
you I’m grown up, I’m eighteen,
and I’m earning my own living.
You —you”
But disappointment overcame
her, and she flung herself on her
bed, sobbing. Only the thought
of Matt waiting in vain made
her get up and blow her nose,
and go to the phone to ring
him.
“You’re not crying, are you?”
he asked anxiously when she had
explained the situation.
“Of course not! They’re so
stupid that it’s funny, really,”
said Molly with a hysterical
giggle.
She went back to her room
and began to cry again. She
cried loudly, making sure that
her mother could hear, and
hoped that she was causing her
to feel remorse.
She turned the wet pillow
over, and noticed a streak of
green eyeshadow on it.
“What a waste! What a
fearful, frightful waste!” she
groaned.


4
///
7* .*'» \ 4
•MM,
';»»* # 1
4
d*
a
“ii
iii*
Ill'
AVIATION
SERVICE.
‘ill II 111/
as
/ "n>i
r,»" J
'/•"•Hi
>.il> I
-'////A
, V/
//'//
&
<5
»*» *
A/V//
f' ,
« / f
*
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited > London
t/5S
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of the following
Waverley Novels, Border Edition,
edited, with introductory essays and
notes, by Andrew Lang: The Abbot,
The Pirate, The Fortunes of Nigel,
Quentin Durward, St., Ronan’s Well
and The Fair Maid of Perth. —6244.
To buy copies of any of James
Agate’s first eight Eg05. —6243.
Pensioner to help run grazing-
property in the Moxee-Yetman-
Warialda district. Must be active,
with sheep-experience, able to ride;
sober habits essential. Good home,
retainer and bonus. —6245.
To buy copy of “Reader’s Digest”
(about 1932) containing the original
version of “The Dog Sat on the
Tucker Box,” beginning:—
As I was coining down Conroy’s Gap, 1
beard a maiden cry
There goes Bill the Bullocky; he’s bound
for Gundagai
.... Nobby broke his yoke, poked out the
leader’s eye.
And the dog sat on the Tucker Box, nine
miles from Gundagai.
—6246.
Information Sought
(1) Information on the early history
in W.A. of the pioneering Bussell
family ? (2) What was the particular
incident associated with the name of
Grace Bussell ?
(1) Four Bussell brothers, John
(aged 26), Charles (19), Vernon (16)
and Alfred (14), sons of the lately
deceased William Bussell, a Hamp-
shire curate, came out to W.A. in the
ship Warrior in 1830. They arrived
at Port Augusta (south-west W.A.)
in May, 1830, and took up land.
Their capital was limited, but they
had courage and strength of purpose
—which they needed in full, for
disaster and misfortune dogged them
in their first four years. Crops failed,
their homestead with its valuables
was burnt down, and the rest of their
belongings went down in the ship
Cumberland. In 1834 they trans-
ferred to the plains of the Vasse,
near where Busselton now stands-
-70 miles overland from Augusta by
a track blazed by John Bussell.
From then on their luck changed.
They named their new property Cattle
Chosen, because they found on
arrival, in excellent condition, a cow
of theirs with calf at foot which had
strayed away on a trip of exploration
the year before. (A picture of Cattle
Chosen in 1870 shows a substantial
Georgian house with the usual
jumble of outhouses, a well-ordered
garden, trees and good paths.) As
Busselton and district prospered the
Bussells took up other land. Charles
went to Sandiland, Vernon took-up
Reinscourt, and Alfred received a
grant of 60,000 acres in the
Margaret River district. Later Alfred
Bussell settled at Wallcliffe, near the
mouth of the Margaret, which passed,
on his death in 1882, to his son Alfred
John. (A. J. Bussell later sold Wall-
cliffe, but his youngest sister
Philomena bought it back in 1911.)
The Bussells kept diaries and were
prolific writers of letters; these
diaries and letters represent a valu-
able authentic record of the early days
of W.A. settlement. (2) Grace Bussell
was a daughter of Alfred Bussell. At
the age of 16 (Dec., 1876), while her
family lived at Wallcliffe, she rode
her horse into a raging surf to rescue
passengers of a capsized lifeboat
from the steamer Georgette, gone
aground near the Margaret. Her
heroism earned her the title of Aus-
tralia’s Grace Darling, ; a special
gold watch from the British Govern-
ment and the Royal Humane Society’s
medal.
*** , *
(1) How is the New Hebrides
group of islands governed? (2)
Approx, population of the group?
(1) The New Hebrides is governed
as a condominium, as provided for
by the Anglo-French Convention of
Feb. 6, 1906 (ratified Oct. 20, 1906),
and by a protocol signed at London
on Aug. 6, 1914 (ratified March 18,
1922).. For some purposes the group
is administered jointly, for others
unilaterally; .there are both English
and French courts and a Joint Court.
The interests of British, French and
natives are protected. The recruiting
of native labor is regulated, and the
conditions of land-holding are fixed
(ownership of land is at times dis-
puted, and is adjudicated on by the
Joint Court). (2) Natives, about
48,000; British, 372; French, 1311;
foreigners, including Asiatics, about
2500. (All figures for 1952.)
* * * *
(1) How long has the kingdom of
Saudi Arabia been in existence? (2)
Does it include all of Arabia? (3)
If not, are Mecca and Medina in its
boundaries? .
(1) It was founded by Abdul-Aziz
ibn Abaur-Rahman al-Faisal A 1
Sa’ud (1880-1953), who had been
proclaimed King of the Hejaz on
Jan. 8, 1926, and in 1927 changed his
title of Sultan of Nejd and its
dependencies to that of King; he thus
became officially King of the Hejaz
and of Nejd and its Dependencies.
On May 20, 1927, a treaty was signed
at Jedda between Britain and Ibn
Sa’ud, by which Britain recognised
the complete independence of the
latter’s dominions. His State was
changed in name to the Saudi Arabian
Kingdom by a decree of Sept., 1932.
(2) It takes in the greatest part of
Arabia. Other Arabian States are the
British Protectorate of Aden, the
kingdom of Yemen, the dominions
of the Sultan of Muscat and Oman,
and part of the kingdom of Jordan.
(3) Mecca and Medina are both in
Hejaz, in Saudi Arabia.
* * * *
(1) Derivation of the following
lines and (2) some information on
the author?
And what shoulder, and what art,
Could twist the sinews of thy heart?
And, when thy heart began to beat,
What dread hand and what dread feet?
(1) The lines comprise the third
verse of William Blake’s “The
Tyger.” (2) Born in London, the son
of a hosier (James Blake), William
Blake was influenced by the beliefs
of his father, a disciple of Sweden-
borg, who had prophesied that the
year 1757, the date of Blake’s birth,
would be the beginning of a new
world. Blake showed mystical
tendencies from childhood. In 1778
he became an independent engraver,
to which he had been apprenticed
since the age of fourteen. His first
volume of verse, Poetical Sketches,
appeared in 1783 and met with in-
different reception. Experimenting at
the printseller’s shop which he opened
in 1784, he conceived the idea of
engraving his poems and illustrating
them with his own impressions. His
Songs of Innocence was issued in
1789, entirely a product of his and
his wife’s work. Book of Thel
appeared in the same year, this the
first of his “prophetic books,” which
he believed were supernaturally dic-
tated to him. Then followed The
Marriage of Heaven and Hell, The
Gates of Paradise, The Vision of the
Daughters of Albion, America, Songs
of Experience, Europe, The Book of
Urizen, The Song of Los, The Book
of Ahaniah, Jerusalem and Milton.
After the publication of Milton in
1804, he devoted himself entirely to
illustrative work, which included
engravings for Blair’s Grave, and
designs for The Book of Job, Paradise
Lost and the Divina Commedia. It
has been said that had his great
natural artistic genius been dis-
ciplined in conception and expression,
he would have been placed even
higher among English artists. He
died on Aug. 12, 1827.
* * * •*
How to (1) kill a stump? (2)
burn-out a stump?
(1) For stump-swabbing, use a rag
on the end of a pole and keep »t well
soaked with arsenic-pentoxide. Bruise
the stump with the axe to assist
absorption of the poison. Use about
Ub. pentoxide to lgal. water and mix
freely. Scrub-trees may need stronger
solutions. (2) With an auger, drill
an 18in. hole in two or more places
(according to the size of the stump),
then fill-up with saltpetre. Plug
holes with short, round bungs
chopped off any handy sapling : stem,
and seal with wet clay, if available.
Do this in late winter, and then forget
about the stumps until midsummer,
when a match and a few logs rolled
alongside will do the trick.
* * * *
Some information on the breed of
dog known as the papillon ?
The papillon is a breed of toy-dog
deriving its name from the large,
erect spreading ears of the prick-
eared variety. It is a smart breed,
with small, arched skull, pointed
muzzle and dark eyes. The ears are
erect or drooped, according to the
variety, the chest is deep and the
back long. The coat, long and
silky, is usually white, with black,
black-and-tan or red markings, but is
sometimes red, brown or yellow. The
long tail is carried oven- the back.
Maximum height is 12in., maximum
weight 121b. A comparatively easy
dog to rear, the papillon, because of
its intelligence and alertness, has
become very popular.
Brief Answers
J.H.: A “nunatak” is an island of
bare land in a snow-field. Where an
ice-sheet overlies the land, the
summits of hills thrust through the
sheet produce a nunatak. The word
is Eskimo A.M.: R. M.
Bardngton-Ward was assistant-
editor of the “Observer” (1919-27),
assistant-editor of the “Times”
(1927-41) and editor of the “Times”
from 1941 till his death in February,
1948. Winner of D.S.O. and M.C.
in World War I, he died while
returning from a health-trip to
Kenya G.J.F.: Write Breville
Wholesalers Pty., Ltd., 161 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, N.S.W
Constant Reader: You may be
eligible for an age-pension at a
reduced rate. It is suggested that
you forward an application-form to
the Registrar of Social Services (Clerk
of Petty Sessions), Court House,
Katoomba J.B.Y.: No age-
pension can be granted to a woman
under the age of 60 years. The
woman on whose behalf you inquired
should test her eligibility to receive
a widow’s pension as a deserted wife.
The separation-order of £3 10s. per
week would not, in itself, affect the
payment of this pension... .N.K.:
Owing to recent amendments to the
Nationality Regulations, it is not
necessary to advertise in the press
the intention of applying for
naturalisation.... .E.G.P.: Write the
Chief Secretary’s Department, Box
30, G.P.O., Sydney T.L.:
Ajuninster is in Devon, England....
Ted F.: (1) and (2) Write Grand
Secretary, Masons’ United Grand
Lodge of N.S.W., Masonic Hall, 279
Castlereagh-street, Sydney A J.:
Bradman captained Australia in 20
Tests against England—the five
1936-37 Tests, five in 1938 (including
the Test at Manchester, abandoned
without a ball being bowled), five in
1946-47 and five in 1948. He also led
Australia in the five 1947 Tests
against India in Australia R.O’B.:
Britain abandoned the Gold
Standard in 1931 D.L.: The
Captain Cook Dock was completed
in 1945... .G.U.: (1) George Joseph
Smith was found guilty of the
murders of Misses Grundy, Burnham
and Lofty as a sequence of the
“Brides in the Bath” case; his trial
ran from June 22-30, 1915. (2)
“Lord Haw-Haw” (William Joyce)
was hanged on Jan. 3, 1946, guilty
of treason by broadcasting; his trial
took place on Sept. 17-19, 1945....
L.B.D.: Aldous Huxleys one-act
play “Permutations Among the
Nightingales” is contained in the
collection Mortal Coils, obtainable in
Penguin form H.C.: The in-
formation sought on Parliamentary
procedure regarding the establishment
of an excise-tariff appeared in ihe
Bulletin for Nov. 16, 1955 ; that o
sandalwood appeared on Sept. ~ ,
1955... .G.H. : There is a Bungulla
in N.S.W. as well as m W.a.
A.G.P.: The first volume ot
Australian Poetry (1941) was edited
by Douglas Stewart F.A.R.: ; Bela
Bartok died in 1945 KJ. : Falza .
His Life and Letters, by G. D.
Kenney (1878); Balzac, I’homme et
I’ceuvre, by A. le Breton (1905),
Honors de Balzac and his Figures of
Speech, by J. M. Burton (1921); and
W. H. Royce’s A Balzac Bibliography
(1929) P.R.T.: Yes, students at a
theological college are exempt trom
National Service training.. • -G.D.:
The Blue Peter is a rectangular blue
flag with a white square in its centre,
it is flown by a ship when she is on
the point of sailing, usually being
hoisted at the fore-royal masthead.
... .A.S.P.: (1) and (2) The declarer
of Abondance Declaree names his
own trump-suit and has first lead, no
matter where he sits. (3) As to the
stake, Hoyle recognises no hard-ana-
fast rule, but regards six-times Solo
as customary J.A.: (1) During the
process of manufacturing cheese ot
the blue-vein type a pure culture ot
spores of the penicillium-roqueforte
mold is incorporated in the curd
before molding. During the curing-
process numerous holes are punched
through the curd-block; air and
moisture are thus obtained by the
mold-spores, enabling them to grow.
After approximately three months the
blocks are scraped, dipped in tallow
and wrapped, in tinfoil to prevent
further growth of the mold. (2) The
N.S.W. Pure Food Act prohibits the
use of any preservative except salt
in butter and cheese. (3) Section 19,
paragraph 5 of the Pure Food Act,
quotes “Corned-, pickled- or salted-
meat is uncooked meat prepared with
salt, saltpetre (potassium- or sodium-
nitrate), sugar, vinegar or spices,
either singly or in combination.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned u
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.C.A.: “The Hanging Judge” is
now in the hands of the office
executioner... .B.B.: Generally such
nostalgic verses are accompanied by
a bunch of faded violets, but we will
excuse you this time F.J.W.: We
have long given up listening to club
bores P.M.: Reminiscences need
to be more than a mere recital of
names, places and dates... .H.L.:
That honey-tongued orator when last
seen was talking to himself m the
basket H.G.: Scapegoat son ot
wealthy family, reformed by pure
country maiden, inherits family
fortune and marries aforesaid p.c.m.
Ah! That’s the stuff to give them!
D.L.: We have more desert
isiands on our hands than we know
what to do with... .8.J.5.: Your
Mariner rolled into 252 George-street,
shocked the receptionist with a few
salty oaths, and rolled out
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
A.8.D.: That must be the seventh
—or is it the eighth?—time you have
submitted that poem D.W.: Your
tramp cannot use our pages as a doss-
house... .F.R.K.: We faintly
suspect that you are an ardent
admirer of Thomas Bracken’s “Not
Understood”... .L.E.W.: And, of
course, the outsider, a nondescript
neddy owned by a struggling cow-
cocky faced with eviction, won by
several furlongs J.T.: Your bush-
ranger is galloping home T.R.:
Forget about the “Mediterranean
littoral” and give us stories about
Dirranbandi, Noondoo, Cubbie, and
the other places you know
C.0’8.: Absentminded professors
are a zack a dozen W. 8.: Sorry,
William but you are up in the clouds.
A.L.G.: Randolph Bedford first
used the idea, so you had better forget
it for all time S.J.: The Religious
Editor recognised him as an old
drinking-mate and took him out for
a rum. Since then neither have been
sighted W.H.M.: Released con-
vict releases birds from a cage at a
zoo. That’s been done a hundred
times S.C.D.: Seldom do we
encounter pub-crawls in print as tame
as all that K.H.: World-famous
entrepreneur hears village contralto
at Sunday-school concert and offers
her a salary “no prima donna would
be ashamed to accept.” No, Kevin,
it is not “good enough for The
Bulletin’” W.E.8.: Felt sorry for
the man who set out to poison his
mother-in-law and killed his cham-
pion greyhound instead... .E.R.R.:
Not wanting the story of the Senti-
mental Bloke set to prose T.L.:
We seem to remember a Henry
Lawson story about a party of
miners who sank a shaft in a
cemetery G.K.S.: “I have made
a New Year resolution to write you
52 stories in 1956,” Good heavens!
What have we done to deserve that?


Current Centenary
J. F. Archibald, Editor
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
HUNDRED years
I 1 ago next Saturday (on
V_>/ January 14, 1856) John
Feltham Archibald was
born at Kildare, a small village
near Geelong (Vic.), the first
child of Joseph Archibald, a
police-officer from Ireland,
whose young English wife was
formerly Charlotte Jane Madden.
J. F. Archibald is, of course,
well remembered today as one
of the two founders and the first
editor of The Bulletin ; as the
man who instituted the Archi-
bald Prize for the best portrait
painted each year by an Aus-
tralian artist; and as the one
who gave to Sydney the beauti-
ful Archibald Fountain in Hyde
Park, erected to commemorate
the association of France and
Australia in the First World
War.
Yet now, only some 36 years
after his death, the memory of
Archibald is wreathed in myths.
One is that he was of French and
Jewish parentage: this has been
repeated over and over in many
books and in scores of articles.
Archibald himself did much
to give birth to that myth by
his assumption for many years of
the names Jules Francois. It was
stated by George Black, an early
Bulletin sub-editor, that Archi-
bald first used those names to im-
press the leading-lady of a tour-
ing theatrical company, an erst-
while vaudeville actress named
Carrie Godfrey, the singer of
“My Grandfather’s Clock,” but
there is no evidence available to
support the story.
Nearer the truth, perhaps, is
Percival Serle’s statement, in his
Australian Biographical Diction-
ary, “Archibald possibly
felt that his personality had some
affinity with the French spirit.”
Certainly, he always had a
deep regard for the people of
France, and for all things French.
Someone once said: “At times
Archie could be more French
than the French.”
Archibald’s father was in-
terested in literature and instilled
in him an early appreciation of
books. Writing of his father,
Archibald stated: “His favorite
English author was Charles
Lamb, for whom his love
amounted to idolatry; he knew
almost by heart every line Lamb
had written, from The Essays of
Elia to ‘When Maidens Such As
Hester Die.’ ”
If he wanted to be a writer
like Lamb, his father told him,
he must study the classics, and
he was sent to a Grammar
School at Warrnambool (Vic.),
where, among other subjects, he
was taught Latin by a fine old
scholar named Henry Kemmis,
and was initiated by the senior
pupils into the art .of smoking
Barrett’s twist - tobacco in a
meerschaum-pipe.
But before he was 15 he had
left school, and was apprenticed
as a compositor to William Fair-
fax and Henry Laurie, lessees of
the “Examiner” at Warrnam-
bool ; later they gave up their
lease and launched a paper of
their own —the “Standard”—in
the same town, keeping Archi-
bald with them.
William Fairfax was related
to the “Sydney Morning Herald”
Fairfax family; Henry Laurie
was a Scottish University man
who used to ruthlessly blue-pencil
the district - correspondents’
“copy,” an example not wasted
on Archibald, as after-years
proved. In his heyday he de-
scribed himself to Lionel Lind-
say as a “soler and heeler of
paragraphs.” /
Archibald took keenly to his
work, and within two years of
becoming apprenticed could,
given fair manuscript, set 60 lines
of 13-em brevier every hour
“till the cows came home.”
Archibald’s earliest writing
was done for another country
newspaper while he was still a
compositor with the “Standard.”
He first thought of submitting
his “copy” to Laurie in a dis-
guised hand, but, fearing detec-
tion and ridicule, he sent his
first effort —a paragraph—to
George Mott, editor of the
Hamilton (Vic.) “Spectator.”
It was published, and in its
ending revealed that Archibald
even then had the talent for
making a paragraph finish like
the crack of a stockwhip.
The par., for which Archibald
received half-a-crown, had to do
with a military funeral at Warr-
nambool. The members of the
local volunteer detachment, to
which the deceased had belonged,
had just been issued with new
uniforms, of which they were
very proud. The funeral cortege
was comprised of the detach-
ment, which, wrote Archibald,
“made a long detour through
the main streets of the town in-
stead of going to the burying-
ground by the usual direct
route. This struck people as
being more out of respect to the
corps than to the corpse.”
His apprenticeship over,
Archibald went to Melbourne,
first asv v a compositor on the
“Evening Herald,” later becom-
ing a reporter on the “Daily
Telegraph” there. His first im-
portant assignment for the “Tele-
graph” was to report the hang-
ing of John Weechurch, a convict
who had killed a prison-warder
(subsequently his first piece of
writing for The Bulletin was
his graphic account of the execu-
tion of Scott and Rogan, the
Wantabadgery bushrangers, at
the old Darlinghurst Jail in
Sydney).
The “Telegraph” assignment
was an imposed task, and he was
so impressed by the horrible
details of a hanging that when
the opportunity arose for him
to view the execution of Scott
and Rogan he voluntarily sub-
mitted to what was an ordeal to
him in order that he might better
express his hatred of capital
punishment.
He sent a copy of the “Tele 1 -
graph” containing his report of
the hanging of Weechurch to his
father. “ ‘The hangman stole
quickly from his victim’s side! ’ ”
wrote his father (quoting from
his son’s report). “Keep on like
that and you will go far. Be
terse; give forceful word-pic-
tures, and omit as many words
as you can. Edit your own work
severely.”
Tiring of the “Telegraph” job,
Archibald left journalism for a
while, becoming a correspond-
ence-clerk in the Victorian Edu-
cation Department.
As a public servant he enjoyed
lighter work, shorter hours and
a higher salary, but he did not
get on well with his superiors,
and after a difference of opinion
with a departmental head—
Archibald could not knuckle-
down to writing “Public Service
English”—he left the department
and went to Queensland.
There, at Maryborough, he
got a job as a correspondence-
clerk with a firm of engineers
and general merchants, but,
after toying with the idea of try-
ing his hand at medicine, and
actually arranging to go to
Edinburgh with that in view, he
found (as he wrote in after-years)
that “journalism held me in its
vice. It’s like the morphia-habit
—journalism. Once a journalist
always a journalist in spirit.”
So he headed for Sydney, to
become a reporter on the “Even-
ing News.” That was in the days
of Ned Kelly, and one of his
innumerable stories was spun
around his efforts to interview
the Kelly gang.
Years later, long after he had
left the “Evening News,” which
was owned by the Bennett family,
he was in the Athenaeum Club,
Sydney, when a newspaper-war
then raging between the “Even-
ing News” and the “Star” came
under discussion. Whenever the
“Evening News” had reason to
refer to its contemporary it used
to print the heading: “Annanias
Again! ” “Why,” someone asked
Archibald, “does the ‘News’ spell
As he looked in David Low’s “Bulletin” days.
“The Lone Hand” in truth and
fact.,
Twenty-seven years later The
Bulletin founded a monthly
magazine called “The Lone
Hand,” to which Archibald con-
tributed a series of articles under
the heading “The Genesis of the
Bulletin.”
John Haynes, for his part,
preferred “The Tribune” as the
name for what was eventually
called The Bulletin. They also
disagreed on the general nature
of the proposed paper. Haynes
had in mind modelling it on a
successful American paper, “The
Ananias with a double ‘n’?”
“Pure egoism,” said Archibald ;
“there’s a double ‘n’ in Bennett.”
While with the “Evening
News” Archibald met a sub-
editor named John Haynes, who
hailed from the Hunter River
(N.S.W.), where he had been on
the staff of the Maitland “Mer-
cury” before joining the “Even-
ing News.” It was Haynes who
—though he dropped out early in
the paper’s struggle for a crust —
first conceived the idea of The
Bulletin, which the pair of them
were soon to launch.
Though the story of the
launching —at a small office
at 107 Castlereagh-street on
January 31, 1880—is well-enough
known not to need repeating
here —along with the difficulties
with its creditors, skirmishes
with bailiffs, libel-actions which
kept the paper poor for many
years, and one of which, the
Clontarf case, landed the two
proprietors in Darlinghurst Jail
—it is interesting to recall that
the name originally intended for
The Bulletin by Archibald was
“The Lone Hand,” and that in
Archibald’s mind, all through its
early years of battle, the paper,
though called The Bulletin, was
„
San Francisco News Letter and
California Advertiser,” noted
±or its boldness of expression,
P lth Y paragraphs and devastating
cartoons. Archibald’s model was
a short-lived, audacious Sydney
weekly named “The Stockwhip
Satirist” (it had several other
titles during its brief but exciting
car^ er )’ which had battled
gamst , tbe sma f, an I c i£~f* >ectab * e
S unng the 1870 s. The
Bulletin, as it eventually came
u ll *’ represente l d a compromise
these ™ ws and
Archibald’s editorship of The
Bulletin was not continuous,
He was 24 years old when the
paper was founded; before he
was 26 he had vacated the
editorial chair, at the insistence
of the printers, to allow W. H.
Traill to take over the editorship,
and to straighten out the muddle
that followed the Clontarf libel-
action. Ironically enough, as
Vance Palmer has pointed out,
it was Traill, not Archibald, who
had written the offending Clon-
tarf article,
Archibald was 30 when he
resumed the editorship in 1886,
the year Traill sold his interests
in the paper to enter politics,
“One after another of my
comrades rushed gaily into the
delusion and deadly limelight of
politics,” wrote Archibald in
1907. “I was happy to work in
a garret, personally unknown,
the grateful music to my ears
not the applauding handclaps of
the multitude, but the growing
clatter of the printing-presses.
To the man born with ink, the
mercurial enthusiast whose spine
tingles at the rhythm of a set of
fiery or pathetic verses from a
new-found pen, or at the roar
of a passionate leader, what a
fragrance the inky odor of a
dingy printing-office.”
That Archibald had matured
during his absence from the
editorial chair was demonstrated
in the rich, fruitful years of his
second editorship, from 1886 to
1902. He left such an indelible
impression that, for many years
after he had ended all connection
with the paper, he was still in
the mind of almost everybody
“Archibald of The Bulletin.”
As A. G. Stephens (I think)
pointed out, when Archibald
becarpe editor again he was quick
to perceive that the paper needed
brightening on the literary side,
as it had been brightened on the
art side by the engagement of
Livingston Hopkins and Phil
May, and so he embarked on
the plan of throwing the pages
more open to outside con-
tributors. In no time he had
gathered around him a brilliant
group of poets and story-tellers
—men and women to whom he
gave inspiration and encourage-
ment and whom he paid hand-
somely—with hard cash as well
as with praise.
He was a voluminous letter-
writer, and his flood of letters did
much to draw a corresponding
volume of contributions, not
only from all over Australia but
from overseas as well. He was
prompt to suggest ideas for
stories and articles, and when a
writer wandered from the track
he took pains to show him the
way home.
And, as importantly, Archi-
bald paid for every line The
Bulletin printed. Payment for
contributions was then an ex-
ception, and Archibald saw to
it that The Bulletin not only
paid its contributors but paid
them better than did such other
papers as paid at all.
Archibald sat at his desk for
long hours, cutting, altering and
putting vigor into the copy that
came to him. No writer, A. G.
Stephens said, was immune from
his amending pen. Generally he
improved everything he sub-
edited. He devoted as much
time and care to the sub-editing
of paragraphs as he did to stories
and articles.
“Boil it down!” was his con-
stant cry to his staff. “Boil it
down! ”
Or, as he began to slash the
verbiage out of a rambling piece
of prose: “In God we trust —
and in our knife.”
“An editor,” he said, “should
never be known —the unknown
alone is terrible.” Of artists
he used to say: “They are good
fellows who do their work to
time. And, unlike poets, they do
not expect to be paid three times
for their work once upon
delivery, once upon acceptance,
and once upon publication.”
As an editor his strong points
were his journalistic awareness,
his generous encouragement of
young authors, and his policy of
allowing his writers to express
their own opinions. Hostile con-
tributions^—every paper has its
share of them —were turned into
a readable jest with a sparkling
line or two of introduction.
It is doubtful whether Archi-
bald wrote a dozen leading-
articles in all his years. He wrote
ten-thousand pungent lines,
however, and he made phrases,
said a colleague, “as other men
make good resolutions and put
them to much more effective
use.”
He was an incomparable
paragraphist, but he didn’t write
verse or stories. He never pub-
lished a book—good, bad or in-
different. He took a keen and
constant delight in the literary,
artistic and personal side of the
(Continued on page 34)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
International jockeys Harry
Carr (England), Vittorio Rosa
(Italy), H. Wright (Sth. Africa)
and J. Doyasbere (France) did
one thing for the Sydney Turf
Club at Canterbury Park —the
25,500 crowd was the biggest at
the suburban track for many
months.
Rosa was the only rider of the
international visitors to have a
race-mount at Canterbury, but
the horse he piloted, Finisterre,
could do no better than finish
sixth in the Club Welter, after
being fourth at the home-turn.
The four visitors took part in
an exhibition canter round the
course, increasing the pace
slightly in the final couple of
furlongs, but as their mounts
were under strong restraint it
wasn’t easy for the public, nor
the experts, to get a real idea of
their riding-style compared with
leading Australian horsemen.
Carr, however, seemed to stand
out.
In a broadcast interview Carr
recalled having ridden against
Jim Munro when Carr was in
India as a 16-year-old. “And I
learned a few tricks from that
smart Australian,” said Carr,
who will ride one of the
Queen’s horses in this year’s
English Derby. Her Majesty
will have three entries in the
classic. Carr plans to return to
Australia next November to
take a mount in the Melbourne
Olympic Cup.
Commedia, runaway winner
of Canterbury First Two-year-
old Maiden, is a Brimstone (imp.)
colt from Margo Lass, and first
impressions are that he will soon
beat much better company. A
fast galloper, well trained by
C. L. Sheil, he is descended
from an old Australian family-
line. P. B. Byrne bred the colt
and also her dam. Margo Lass
was got by Manitoba (imp.)
from Comargo by Magpie (imp.),
going back to Chester. It was
Commedia’s first start.
Merry Emperor led most of
the way to open his winning-
account in Canterbury Park
Second Maiden Two-year-old
for colts and geldings, improv-
ing on recent displays. He is
trained at Randwick by Harold
O’Dwyer, who is well known in
the southern districts of N.S.W.
Merry Emperor —a, half-brother
to Merry Chief, a Kembla
winner before being shipped to
Malaya, where he was raced as
Cabaret II and won races —is by
Emperor (imp.) from Merry
Shirl by Merry Matthew (imp.),
tracing back to Grafton (imp.).
Both Mid Watch and New
Amber, two-year-old fillies in
the T. J. Smith stable, had solid
support in the one event at
Canterbury. New Amber
showed a lot of pace, but Mid
Watch easily beat her into third
place. The winner is another
of the successful Nilo (imp.)
breed. Her dam, Franjean, a
sister to Romany King, a Rand-
wick and suburban winner, is
by Brueghel (It.) from St.
Blance (imp.) by St. Jerome.
Mid Watch kave N. Sellwood a
first-up winning-ride after his
two months’ suspension.
In the early part of the present
season Magic Carpet 11, from
M. McCarten’s stable, won three
races and was looked upon as a
horse of much promise. He
hasn’t lived up to those hopes:
since early October he has filled
four minor platings but hasn’t
won again. Before the running
of the Canterbury Park Handi-
cap he looked a fair prospect for
that nine-furlongs event and was
always at odds-on, firming from
5.t0-4-on to 7-to-4-on. He
shaped like a 10-to-l shot, being
third in a field of four, at no
stage looking troublesome.
Winner of the race, Hunters
Game led all the way.
The track-gallop by Prince o’
Scots of four furlongs in 52sec.
two days before he raced at
Canterbury was nowhere near a
training-track record, but it was
a sound trial all the same, especi-
ally as he had carried about lOst.
in the early-morning work. He
duly won the Canterbury Welter,
his first win for the best part of
12 months. He’s in such fine
fettle at the moment that he
should quickly add to earnings.
On the grey five-year-old
Nizami gelding Alahvii, one of
Sid Lawrence’s team, coming
youthful apprentice B. Howlett
rode a well-judged race to land
the money in the First Ashbury
Stakes at Canterbury. Howlett,
now apprenticed to Randwick
trainer Frank McGrath, showed
out as a horseman of much
promise when he rode Troy in
two wins at Randwick over the
holiday fixtures. Alahvii hadn’t
won a race for more than 12
months, and is still eligible for
restricted events.
St. Albans Stud, Geelong
(Vic.), bred Selected, who has
had two successive wins and was
not troubled to beat last-start
winner Recount and Battle Order
in the Moonee Valley Youthful
Handicap on Saturday. As
Selected is related to stayers
Aldershot and Engraver, she
could do well over a distance
later on. She is by the English
sire Paramount (imp.) from
Chosen by Enfield (imp.) from
Little Sister by Gay Lothario
(imp.) from North Star by Great
Star (imp.). Chosen was a winner
at Flemington, while Aldershot
won the 1952 Adelaide Cup (two
miles) and various other races,
including the Ercildoune Stakes,
in which he defeated Dalray and
J. M. TAYLOR, caught-and-
sketched Mailey.
Hydrogen by a dozen lengths.
Engraver won the St. Leger in
Adelaide and other staying-
events up to 13 furlongs.
Prince Kaylah -sprang a sur-
prise in the Albion Park First
Maiden Handicap, in which he
was ridden by former Sydney
jockey V. Faggotter. The three-
year-old gelding is by A 1 Dakhil
(imp.) from Kaylah, and is
closely related to Magnificent
(dual Derby winner).
Nawallah, a winner of the
Moonee Valley Cup, is related
to Piper’s Row, easy winner of
a Hawkesbury Two-year-old
Maiden in course-record time.
Mrs. J. Cooper bred the filly at
her Mirridong stud, Cudal
(N S.W.), and retained her for
racing. Harry Plant trains
Piper’s Row, who is by Austra-
lian-bred sire Crown Street by
Genetout (imp.) from Vocal
Charm by Royal Step from
Music by Medieval Knight
(imp.). Back in the pedigree
figures Wallace, a winner of the
Victoria Derby, Sydney Cup and
A.J.C. St. Leger.
Jim and George Fleming, of
Kil k e e stud, Koorawatha
(N.S.W.), bred Ronpera, who
opened his winning-account in
a Hawkesbury Maiden, scoring
by half-a-dozen lengths. Now
a three-year-old, the gelding is
by Nice Day (imp.) from Care-
not by Bullhead (imp.) from
Baralin by Baralong (imp.).
Several Australian owners and
trainers will attend the 30th
annual New Zealand sale of
yearlings at Wellington on
January 16 and 19, when 388
lots will be offered. Among
early youngstersjto be submitted
will be relatives" of winners in
Australia, including Gold
Quality, Chastise, Red Jester,
Rising Fast, Aboukir, Karachi,
Hutton, Top Ruler, Pipes of
Pan and Howe. A Rising Fast
relative is a black colt by
Summertime (imp.) from Inky by
Sir Beau II from Haughty by
Inflation. He is a first foal.
Haughty is a half-sister to Faster,
the dam of Rising Fast.
Changes in the A.J.C.
autumn programme (March 31
to April 7) include the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes of £BOOO (If
mile). This will take the place
of the Randwick Plate of £3OOO.
Total prizemoney will be £64,000.
The Adrian Knox Stakes for
three-year-old fillies, which had
been run at 10 furlongs and was
worth £3OOO, has been bumped
up to £5OOO, with the distance
increased to 12 furlongs. Trainers
will have to start getting their
fillies ready for this staying event.
Owners and trainers can now
get a programme-service extend-
ing over three months. Three-
year-old fillies are to be given
further racing opportunities.
* * *
Handicaps for the Inter-
Dominion Championship,
released by N.S.W. Trotting
Club handicapper Jack Marx
last week, have aroused much
criticism, some of it looking
legitimate. Uncle Joe, who’d
been absent from racing for
over a year and, though he
looked champion-potential, had
never run near world-record
time, is handicapped over the
longer distances on the 48yds.-
mark with world-record holder
and New Zealand record-stakes
winner (trotters and gallopers)
Johnny Globe —and is asked to
stand ground to three Inter-
Dominion winners. No one
envies the handicapper his job
when he’s asked to assess 80-odd
pacers from all over Australasia,
but the reasoning in Uncle Joe’s*
case does seem rather obscure.
The winner of the big run
could well be hidden among the
horses handicapped on the
12yds.-mark. Included are the
promising four-year-olds Set
Point and First Variety, who,
however, may find the grind
beyond them; Moss Hall, a
capable Enzedder; Active Ayr,
the “Grey Flash,” a definite
threat if he puts on a good dis-
play of manners; brilliant five-
year-olds Van Hall and Mineral
Spring; last-start winner Gay
Knight; Inter - Dominion
runner-up, Andi; Hunter Cup
winner Merchant (from S.A.);
consistent Strathfield Jack. But
probably the best-handicapped
pair in the race are Young Wex-
ford, 1953 Sydney Derby
winner, and the very capable
Springfield Guy.
+ +
The Mailey-Taylor testi-
monial-match, beginning in
Sydney on Friday, commem-
orates and rewards the services
to Australian cricket of two
great cricketers, one a bowler,
one a batsman. For some of
the borderliners the match is,
of course, a trial for the tour
of England.
Mailey is the only bowler to
have taken more than eight
wickets in the one innings in
an Australia - England Test
(9-121, at Melbourne ,in 1921),
and he’s the holder of the record
for the greatest number
of wickets taken by an Aus-
tralian in the one Test-series
ARTHUR MAILEY, who did a
fair bit of Bulletin caricaturing
earlier, here performs the
remarkable cricket-feat of catch-
ing himself.
against England (36, in 1920-21)
—and he wasn’t given a bowl
in the second Test! As a bats-
man the less said . . . but Mailey
does hold —with his co-bene-
ficiary, . Taylor—the record
last-wicket partnership for Aus-
tralia against England (127, in
Sydney in 1924-25). Mailey’s
contribution was 46, not out.
He has since become noted as
humorist and cartoonist.
• • • •
Johnny Taylor was a protege
of Trumper’s. Trumper was
instrumental in getting Taylor
into the N.S.W. Colts team to
play Victoria before he’d played
in grade-cricket; Trumper’s
selection was justified, Taylor
notching 216. A brilliant attack-
ing batsman, with a particularly
powerful stroke off the back
foot, he was dogged by illness
from war-service, and often not
at his best. He played in 20
Tests, 18 against England. His
best Test-series was 1924-25,
when Tate, at his best, took his
38 wickets in one series—Taylor
in that series made 541 runs at
54 an innings. He was, too, a
splendid outfieldsman.
• • •
The selectors have done a good
job in choosing the testimonial
sides. The only possible quibble
is that Queensland ’keeper
Grout wasn’t given a tryout.
Langley is our best ’keeper and
sure to tour ; and it may have
been fairer—to Grout himself,
if not to the bowlers who will
tour —to have pitted Grout
against Maddocks in the testi-
monial.
There are others who could
have got in. Hole has shown
flashes of his best form this
year, but has been too incon-
sistent ; Ken Archer, who had
a good chance of forcing his
way back to the Test side, didn’t
make the most of his opportun-
ities ; Sammy Loxton is more
than useful; and Vic. fast-bowler
Power, once hailed as “Lind-
wall’s successor,” though he
has never quite lived up to the
likelihood. The 17 to go to
England appear certain to come
from those in the trial (and, of
course, Miller who isn’t to
play). One or two of these
others could perhaps break in—
but they’d have to do something
really startling.
“Mid-on”: Some Sydney
critics went into rhapsody over
Mackay’s 203 in Queensland s
first-innings win over N.S.W.—
after having castigated him for
his slowness for years. But
there was still plenty of “dead-
bat” in Mackay’s innings ; the
440 min. he took in all hardly
represents attacking cricket. I
consider, however, that Mackay
should be one of the first selected
for England. He should have
been, given at least one Test
against Hutton’s side last season;
and he’ll certainly be needed
in England to give solidity to
Australia’s batting line-up.
“Tom”: Sydney club-cricket
lost a keen player when
Bob Cristofani left last
month for South Africa to
become Australia’s Trade Com-
missioner there. The St. George
all-rounder often got up at day-
break to practise with brother
Vic, also very keen. In 1940-41
Bob, then 19, became the first
and only player in Sydney grade-
cricket ever to take 50 wickets
(av. 15.30) in his first season. A
star of the Australian Services
side in England in 1945, he
scored 110 in 143 min. in the
fifth Victory Test, hitting a six
and 14 fours. In this Test he
also took 5-55 off 22 overs, his
victims including Hammond and
Washbrook. In no subsequent
Test between England and Aus-
tralia has an Australian scored
a century and taken five wickets
in an innings. Cristofani later
was given a couple of Shield
games, but never made the mark
in cricket he was expected to
make after his promise with the
Services side.
“C.A.A.”: Two Australians
who are now mainstays of their
English counties will be given
benefits over there this coming
season. They are Vic Jackson,
of Leicestershire, and Ken
Grieves, of Lancashire. Both
are former N.S.W. Shield players
and both graduated to county-
cricket from the Lancashire
League. Jack Walsh, another
former N.S.W. Shield cricketer
with Leicestershire, is also in
line for a benefit. Other former
Australian representative
cricketers starring in county-
cricket are Bruce Dooland, with
Nottinghamshire (his benefit-
year is 1957), and Jack Pettiford
with Kent, while Colin McCool
starts with Somerset this season.
* * *
Champion girl swimmer
Lorraine Crapp for the second
time set world-record time for
440yds. freestyle —in winning
the N.S.W. title at Sydney’s
Olympic Pool. She clipped
|sec. off the previous record
smin. 7.2 sec. set last year by
Dutch girl Mary Kok. In 1954
Lorraine had set new world-
time for both the 880yds. and
440yds.; her times are in fact
more remarkable than the Dutch
girl’s, who bettered both 1954
times, as they were made in a
longer pool.
* * *
Landy made a great comeback
in the 880yds. at Olympic Park
(Melbourne) a week ago. He
broke away at 220yds., set a
fast pace and was just pipped on
the post by world 880yds. record-
holder Lon Spurrier, one of the
three visiting American athletes.
(Time, lmin. 51.85ec., just out-
side the Australian record.)
Landy could well be on the way
back to the top.
The Americans have all
turned on splendid efforts in
Australia. Bob Morrow, in fast
times, won all the sprints he
went in; Spurrier on Saturday
won the 1000 metres in 2min.
23.85ec., 7.6 sec. better than
Landy’s 1952 Australian record
(also bettered by promising
Victorian miler Merv Lincoln,
who ran second to Spurrier) ;
and Parry O’Brien was, physi-
cally and in performance,
head-and-shoulders above any
local talent in the shotput and
discus-throw.


Australian Preview
TV TRIALS
By GRAHAM PHILLIPS
AN experienced radio-
announcer faces a TV-
camera for the first time.
He smiles easily while
they arrange a microphone
above his head. The micro-
phone hangs from a miniature
crane, and must be as low as
possible without intruding on
the TV picture. There is quite
a delay, and the announcer
swallows a few times.
I don’t blame him. Actors of
the silent days must have felt
something like this with the
advent of sound. It is odd that
after a quarter-of-a-century
science should produce a situa-
tion so precisely in reverse.
These tryouts are being held
in what was once a church-hall.
Now, thirty or forty electric-
suns glare down from its Gothic
beams. The original walls hide
behind acoustic-panels and more
batches of electric-suns. You
walk on a writhing carpet of
electric-cables.
One cable is too thick to walk
on. This is the outsize electric-
artery that feeds the TV-camera
its high-voltage diet. During
most TV-shows both “talent”
and cameras have to scurry
about: it is one man’s job to
keep this cable out of the way.
On one side of the camera itself
somebody has triumphantly
chalked “A.B.C. TV.”
You can watch the announcer
go through his test both in the
flesh and on the TV-screens
which are scattered casually
round the hall. One screen is
placed so that the announcer
can watch himself perform if
he f?els inclined. He does not
look'at it, so either does not feel
inclined or has enough to think
about as it is. \
He sails through his test in
fine style, and is followed by a
lady armed to the teeth with a
flowerpot, some earth, and a
trowel. With these she pro-
ceeds to demonstrate how to give
a young plant the proper start
in life, amiably chatting about
gardening to the camera as she
does so, just as though it were
a human-being.
Skulking in the flowerpot she
finds a live worm. She remains
composed, however, and bravely
holds it up for the camera to
see. The worm comes through
beautifully on the TV-screen
and obliges with a photogenic
wiggle or two.
The test finishes without
further incident, and everybody
then congratulates the lady on
her presence-of-mind. ' Some-
body says: “Being able to
improvise, that’s the great thing
on TV.” Demurely, she con-
fesses to having secretly
arranged for the worm to be
present.
There follows a round-table
conference presided over by a
Mr. Watt. Mr. Watt has come
out from England for this pur-
pose. He has had much TV
experience with the 8.8. C.
He emphasises that the com-
plexity of a TV-production
requires that its producer should
have more authority than has
been the case with any other
entertainment in history. He
must have authority of the fire-
eating sergeant - major kind.
And, just like sergeant-majors,
it is better for a TV-producer to
“be definite and wrong rather
than indefinite and right.”
There follows a discussion of
one of TV’s peculiar difficulties :
When two people talk to each
other they must somehow
wangle the geometry of their
bodies so that they appear to be
facing each other while at the
same time looking out the TV-
screen at their viewers.
A lady pleasantly advises
treating the camera as a third
person present. “To be rude to
the camera is to be rude to the
viewers. This,” she adds, “is
particularly noticeable at the
end of any scene. The parti-
cipants must not merely bid
courteous farewells to each
other; they must also bid a
courteous farewell to the
camera.”
She sounds both definite and
right. And, since it is also
important to seem unaware of
the camera’s presence, it
appears the electronic-age
may pose some delicate prob-
lems in etiquette.
Mr. Watt agrees with the
lady. “However,” he adds
dryly, “some people who have
no business to be looking at
the TV-camera at all have only
to see one to be smitten with
an urge to do so. This is a
great nuisance ‘in the field.’
You know the type; they exist
everywhere else in the world, so
no doubt they’ll turn up here.
Get in front of the camera and
start waving their arms and
yelling ‘Hello, Mum!’”
There is a break for after-
noon-tea, and as we go out into
the garden where it has been
laid-out, I remark on this last
problem to Mr. Watt. He looks
grave:
“Yes,” he said. “Do you
know . . . the 8.8. C. even went
to the length of setting-up a
dummy camera at race-meetings
to draw the crowd?”
He then introduces me to
Miss Kay Kinane, who has been
studying TV in the U.S., and to
Mr. MacCallum, who has been
studying it in the U.K.
I remark to Miss Kinane that
I hear TV-executives in the U.S.
last no time before they crack-
up from the nervous tension.
“They do it to themselves,”
she says firmly. “There’s so
much knifing in the back and
trying to steal the job of the
next man up. This means every-
body has to look insanely busy
even when they’re not; some-
body might notice them looking
relaxed and report it. For
instance, if we were just talking
casually like this in America,
everybody would be waving
their arms and hitting each
other on the back. Have a
biscuit.”
I look reflectively at Mr.
Watt, who has been an English
TV-executive for years. He
looks alert, certainly, but shows
no sign of possible impending
crack-up.
“Do English TV-executives
crack-up like the Americans
do?” I ask.
“No. Different tempera-
ment.”
Then does he think advent of
commercial TV in England will
foment a more American
atmosphere?
He looks more tranquil than
ever: “No. Different tempera-
ment.”
“Utterly,” says Miss Kinane.
A cynic might suggest that
one reason for the preservation
of the English low-pressure
temperament is their high-
pressure taxes. Since nobody
can get rich, anyway, emotional
boiler-busting is not worth the
trouble.
Certainly there is no doubt
that dollar-hysteria lies behind
the U.S. attitude. Anyone who
has read Frederick Wakeman’s
The Hucksters will be familiar
with the system of ratings—
statistics prepared from public-
opinion polls—which make or
break artists on radio-shows.
They now make or break artists
on TV-shows, too ; and not only
the artists, but producers,
advertising-agencies, and, with
increasing frequency, writers.
Sponsors used once to bother
mainly about actors; but one
result of this perpetual analysis
of the entertainment-world has
been the tardy realisation that
a show can be no better than its
writers.
Within the past year or so,
some overseas writers —for long
treated by electronic mediums as
barely-needed accessories to
their shows —have found them-
selves promoted to the really-
high-income aristocracy of the
radio- and TV-world.
James Jones, notable for
wearing a pea-green suit and for
the fortune he made out of his
novel From Here to Eternity, is
now earning a second fortune
under a contract to write TV-
scripts.
Meanwhile, the business of
inserting emotional thermo-
“It’s a small world, after all.”
meters into thousands of sample
mouths continues to flourish.
Polling-agencies call in all sorts
of learned gentlemen to harness
their university educations to
the devising of new techniques
to assess the public temperature.
But still the various polling-
agencies seldom agree about the
merits of a show.
The simplest way to find out
what people like is, of course, to
ask them. And this old-
fashioned method still survives.
Unfortunately—so the pollsters
claim—you just can’t trust
people to tell you the truth about
these things.
The trail which leads to the
truth about taste is obscured by
the monster red-herring of
intellectual snobbery. For
instance, a pollster may ring
somebody up and be told by
that somebody that he’s watch-
ing Toscanini conduct a sym-
phony orchestra, Russian ballet,
or some such highbrow circus.
And all the time what the deceit-
ful fellow is really watching is
a boxing-match, a revival of an
old Mae West film, or some-
body’s grandmother winning a
million dollars for knowing the
name of the batman who
cleaned General Lee’s boots in
the Civil War.
In his investigations into
human preferences in another
sphere of entertainment, Dr.
Kinsey found himself up
against a somewhat similar
problem. The reticence he
encountered may have sprung
from causes other than snobbery,
but was nonetheless difficult to
penetrate. He solved his prob-
lem by firing questions at his
subjects very suddenly, like
bullets. His theory was that this
made people jump, and when
they jumped they came out with
the truth before they knew
where they were.
One enterprising bunch of
TV-pollsters use a technique
which the more delicate nature
of his inquiries precluded Dr.
Kinsey from using. They hyp-
notise such viewers as they can
induce to submit, then, while
the viewers are in a trance and
unable to lie, they conduct a
Freudian probing into their un-
conscious and deep-seated feel-
ings about TV-programmes * . .
Despite the number of
electric-fans the A.B.C. has
thoughtfully provided to cool
the “talent” being tried-out, the
climate in the hall is like that of
a seaside-resort in New Guinea.
Miss Kinane pours us all
another cup of tea to postpone
facing it.
I have heard this word
“talent” bandied about a good
deal in the course of the after-
noon. It seems suddenly to
have acquired a brand-new and
mysterious shade of meaning. I
ask about this.
“Talent,” explains Miss
Kinane, “is the word used to
cover anything that moves in
front of a TV-camera. Any-
thing. Even a cat.”
“Was it an old radio term,
used for anything behind a
mike?”
“No. Completely new word.
TV-productions are much more
frantic affairs than radio ones.
TV-producers have to have one
word that will let people in
front of a camera know they’re
being spoken to a generic
word,” she adds casually.
This erudite adjective re-
minded me that Miss Kinane
has for many years specialised
in the spiky problems of educat-
ing children by radio. She’s
now tackling the even spikier
ones of TV.
I ask if TV is much used for
educational purposes in
America.
“American children watch TV
on an average for about 25
hours a week. Mostly twaddle.
However, parents don’t mind
about this, on the whole: even
twaddle keeps children both at
home and quiet, which is more
than anything else has done
since the world began.”
The “New Yorker” bears out
Miss Kinane’s observations on
the U.S. child’s TV-addiction.
This, for instance, from a short
piece on the hazards encoun-
tered by TV-repairmen when
obliged to remove, for servicing,
a set installed in a house where
there are children:
“Hell hath no fury like that
of a tot about to be deprived of
even an extremely fuzzy image
of Roy Rogers, and repairmen
invariably try to sneak sets out
of the house while children are
at school or (but this is chancy)
napping. Children are known
to have kicked, pommelled,
clawed and bitten men engaged
in removing TV-sets. Children
also go in for making their own
TV-repairs, often by kicking,
pommelling and clawing the
sets.”
Miss Kinane believes Austra-
lian children will develop a
similar fondness for TV ; instead
of fighting this situation, how-
ever, she proposes to work along
with it. She plans TV-shows
which will surreptitiously edu-
cate children while they watch.
This type of show will keep
children at home just as effec-
tively as do the U.S. shows; but
will not always keep them quiet.
The best kind of leisure is not
spent in passively watching TV
or anything else. Participation,
and, if need be, noisy participa-
tion, in some activity is the
thing.
Educators have devised ways
by which youngsters may actu-
ally participate in TV-shows.
For instance, a musical show
may be televised with all the
percussion parts left out: the
youngsters will themselves
supply these (under thp TV-
conductor’s baton) by rhythmic
beating, pommelling, etc., of
any handy domestic utensil. I
can imagine that some parents
will be lukewarm over this
manifestation of contemporary
education-techniques.
Older children will be goaded
by their TV-sets into useful
activities such as woodwork,
drawing and painting. And on
the purely educational side —
where the sugar-coating may be
left off —TV is ideal for certain
phases of teaching. Chemistry-
demonstrations, in particular,
take on almost a personal note:
each student feels he’s standing
right at the teacher’s elbow.
I know a medical practitioner
who hopes to see programmes
designed to encourage adults to
take up hobbies which require
the use of their hands. For a
billion or so years, man had to
make use of his hands if he
wanted to stay alive.
Civilisation has removed the
need, but the racial habit is
built-in. In the case of sick
people, the value of occupa-
tional-therapy has been amply
proved. But healthy people
whose work needs more head-
work than handiwork might feel
healthier still for putting in some
time at making something or
other.
It is even better to make some-
thing completely useless than to
sit too much on the recreational
sidelines. A man who dedicates
his leisure to whittling toy
giraffes which he later locks
away in glass-cases may do
nobody else much good ; but he
may do himself a lot of good.
Some men may argue that
their lawns, their wives, and the
high price of painters already
provide them with plenty to do
as it is. But (wars permitting)
automatization, mechanisation
and the rest of it should provide
{Continued on page 34)


AUGER
you just carry it
m
n
tm
The MOBILCO 'Junior
GRAIN AUGER
ft's pretty handy you know, to carry a little grain auger to
a bin ... push one end into the grain and deliver it into
bag, bulk truck or a barrow at 150 bushels per hour.
This miniature auger, with full sized performance, can be
driven by V 2 inch electric drill, V 2 h.p. electric motor, or,
if you are a bit more energetic and money conscious than
the_ average, by a small crank handle.
If you're using a shovel and a lot of time and
perspiration in handling wheat, oats, rice, corn, small
saw-dust and other small grained bulk material, you're
going to be sorry if you don't look into this new
Mobilco Junior Auger right away. Once you have
tried it we guarantee you'll keep it right by your side
as the best little labour saver you've come across.
The Junior Auger weighs only 40 lbs. It is ZV2 inches in
diameter, 10 feet long, and it sells at a pocket-sized
price, £24/8/-, ready for attachment of your electric
drill or fitted with crank handle and ready for Use. Send
an order now for quick delivery and a Junior Auger will
be on its way to you immed : ately.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
WU loy <9 LINES) - BRANCHES: BRISBANE.
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
What your children
need most
It’s not “love.” Or “sym-
pathy.” Or even “understand-
ing.” No, the one quality they
want most from you is justice.
In January Reader’s Digest,
an educator (who has taught
teen-agers for years) tells the
kind of disciplinary code the
average youngster is glad to
live under: will follow and res-
pect.
Then there’s “Super-aspirins
against arthritis,” “The rich
rewards of compassion,” “Six
ways to beat the heat,” “Fast-
est man on earth,” plus a 21-
page book condensation of “The
Miracle of Lourdes.” Don’t
miss January Reader’s Digest,
only 2/- at all newsagents and
bookstalls. It’s unparalleled
reading value for all the family.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"LIMITS OF SOW POWER"
TN substantial extracts from
*• Dr. Wilhelm Starlinger’s
Limits of Soviet Power, the
“U.S. News and World Report”
gives an uncommonly interesting
survey of the Soviet based on
evidence collected in uncommon
ways over the six years 1947-54.
]3r. Starlinger was a member
of the faculty of Konigsberg
University, and after the city
was taken by the Russians he
remained as medical director of
Yorck and St. Elisabeth’s hos-
pitals. Konigsberg, a city of
350,000 inhabitants, had been
reduced to barely more than
100,000 when the Russians took
over ; after two years of Russian
occupation the population was
reduced to 25,000.
Weakness, hunger, homicide,
illness and “unimaginable con-
ditions during the winter of
1945-46” accounted for the major
proportion of the reduction.
It was, Dr. Starlinger claims,
his inside knowledge of the
Russian part in the decimation of
the people of Konigsberg that led
to his arrest and confinement as
a political prisoner for six years
in Russia.
There was an important
difference between political
prisoners and the ordinary, non-
political criminal. The latter was
regarded as a victim of surviving
traces of a capitalistic environ-
ment and capable of “re-educa-
tion and reclamation” ; the poli-
tical prisoner, however, is “stig-
matised as dangerous to the
State and to society and was
therefore excluded for evermore
from all participation in society.
He was not permitted to return
to his people even after complet-
ing his legal sentence.”
This attitude towards political
prisoners made for considerable
freedom of thought and expres-
sion in the prison-camps, and
authorities were completely un-
concerned with what the
prisoners thought or said so long
as their talk did not disturb
camp-discipline they knew
that ideas and conversations
could never be transmitted out-
side the camp.
Moreover, political prisoners
included only a few “primitive,
unintelligent types” ; the bulk of
them consisted of farmers who
were well aware of the attitude
of the Russian peasants, and of
“persons from the intellectual
elite, the Soviet intelligentsia.”
These included “not only pro-
fessors, students, physicians,
engineers, economic leaders and
journalists, but also Communist-
party officials ranging up as high
in rank as members of the Cen-
tral Committee, State officials
up to the rank of Ministerial
executives, and military staff-
officers up to the rank of
general.”
These prisoners, at first natur-
ally inclined to reticence,
generally realised very soon that,
after a lifetime of enforced
silence, they were now, in the
comparative freedom of the
camp, able to talk their heads
off if they wanted to. This they
generally did, “with a frankness
that is only possible when all
bridges have been burned behind
them.” It was from these people,
from letters from outside the
camp, from evaluation and com-
parison of central and provincial
papers, and from other incidental
sources that Dr. Starlinger col-
lected the bulk of his informa-
tion and formed his conclusions
about the state of the Soviet.
Of the people of the Soviet
themselves, he notes that,
although they consist of a great
number of tribes and groups
and “a small number of nations
still in embryonic stages of
development, there is only one
nation which has become fully
mature and conscious of its
New York “Herald Tribune"
ON THE MOSCOW BANQUET CIRCUIT
nationality and that is the
nation of Great Russia”:
“Its dominance—biologically,
militarily, culturally, economi-
cally and geopolitically—is so
great that it has taken over
leadership not only by claim but
also by uncontestable reality.
“Every international policy
that does not recognise this
fundamental truth is doomed
to failure.
“At present, Great Russianism
is systematically permeating the
entire realm of the Soviet Union.
This is taking place in many
ways, half-consciously, half-
unconsciously. Great Russianism
alone shapes and directs all
present instruments of power:
the Party, the Army and the
State.
“In other words, all so-called
‘Soviet patriotism’ is in the final
analysis Great Russian patri-
otism. At the end of this con-
tinuing process of integration
there will be achieved a vast,
unified domain in which people
not only speak Russian but also
feel, think and act Russian—
unless, of course, this process is
interrupted by force from out-
side
“After attaining its final form,
this Great Russian nation may
then enter upon a new period of
history compared with which all
previous Russian history repre-
sents but a prelude. In Western
history, the relationship of the
period preceding Charlemagne to
that which followed him might
serve as a comparison.”
Starlinger goes on to note
that there is “an astonishing
uniformity of character” despite
the variations existing among
the people of the Soviet. He
lists as similar recurring
characteristics the positive
qualities of “bravery, ability to
live on little and to endure
much suffering, adjustability to
conditions that appear un-
changeable, good - naturedness
when not aroused, ability to
forget quickly wrongs inflicted
on them, enthusiasm for new
ideas that appeal to the
emotions, and, finally, the great
ability to improvise and to
adapt to a new situation.”
Their common negative
qualities he gives as “irrational
instability in everything—in
emotions, thought and actions —
periodic lack of initiative,
extreme laziness, and a general
—although seemingly uninten-
tional and hardly conscious—
untruthfulness and disloyalty,
towards themselves as well as
others.
“These characteristics result
in an incurable inclination
towards lack of planning and
discipline, which Russians
attempt to disguise by elaborate
paper-planning and issuing of
many orders.”
It is suggested that, to make
the least of his vices and the
most of his virtues, the Russian
individual must be subjected to
“complete authority and rigid
collectivism.” It has only been
possible to accomplish this by
total terrorism, whether the
rulers were Peter the Great,
Catherine the Great, Nicholas I,
Lenin or Stalin —“the harsher
the terrorism the greater has
been the achievement.”
Turning to the Soviet’s
population-problem, Starlinger
comments that “one cannot
ignore their [the Russians’]
critical population - problems,
which are causing increasing
concern and effort on the part
of the Soviet leaders”:
“The Soviet Union of today
is a space without a population.
An area of 20-million square
kilometers [7,720,000 square
miles] was populated before the
war, according to reliable
estimates, by no more than 180-
to 190-million people. Now the
population is said to total
220-million. War-losses have
been officially listed as about
18-million.
“If one compares available
figures, one arrives at a present
total population that must be
much less than the 220-million
claimed.”
After noting the danger of
relying on any published figures
in Russia, Starlinger adds:
“The danger of a stagnation
of the population in the relative
vacuum of Russia’s vast area is
a mortal one —not for the West,
but for the East, with its in-
creasingly tremendous biological
pressure. So the entire propa-
ganda-apparatus of party and
State has been thrown into the
fight to increase the population.
“Efforts are being made to
restore marriage-morality, en-
courage big families as a proof
of patriotism, curb divorce,
increase protection for mothers,
reward mothers of large
families, and to prohibit and
punish abortion.
“But these measures come too
late, even if they succeed in
overcoming the effects of earlier
propaganda and laws that
encouraged the systematic
destruction of family and
marriage, that even went so far
as to provide State abortion-
clinics.
“The present measures are too
late because sociological re-
adjustments and developments
have begun which in their
steadily increasing effect cannot
be checked by any kind of
propaganda or laws. Their
overall effects must lead to a
rapid decline of the birthrate.
“The most important of these
influences is the swift urbanisa-
tion of post-war years. This
heavy concentration in big
cities, coupled with a shortage
of housing-space, endangers the
family and makes large families
virtually impossible.
“In addition, this concentra-
tion causes a large-scale separa-
tion of the sexes, not only by the
housing of young people for
many years in mass quarters, but
even more by the mass exodus
of men from the country and
their resulting preponderance in
the cities.”
Returning to the subject of
Soviet nationalism, Starlinger
splits the Russian people into
three main classifications: The
intellectual workers and medium
and higher officials; “former
farmers, insofar as they have not
already been absorbed by the
collective-farms” ; and “the grey
mass of pushed - around
‘termites.’ ”
The last group has little
interest in politics or religion,
and, if handled with the right
psychology and given suitable
incentives, “will not turn against
the political system it hates” ; it
will, in fact, “work and suffer
even more—and will also fight
bravely.”
The second group, the
farmers, have only one desire —
to repossess their own land —
but the systematic liquidation of
the kulaks “has probably broken
the backbone of the old Russian
peasantry.”
It is in the intellectual group
that the main moving thought
and forces originate. In this
group, “Marxism-Leninism, as
something that arouses and
inspires, as pseudo-religion for
which one would fight and die,
and which gave rise to legends
of heroes and saints, is today
dead. And from all its legends
it is no longer possible to kindle
a living reality”:
“Stalin recognised this
development in its beginnings,
and acted with precautionary
foresight.
“Just as it appeared politically
necessary to Stalin to create an
empire under the mantle of the
almighty State, it also must have
appeared to him urgent to
establish a national Russian
foundation upon which its
almighty power might rest.
There is no doubt that toward
the end of his regime, the
achievement of this goal over-
shadowed every other aim.
“After Stalin’s death, this
process did not end, but rather
gained momentum The
glorification of messianic Great
Russian nationalism continues
Therefore it is obvious that
in any conflict between a
foreign enemy and Russia’s


KITCHINGS’
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LtD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
A MODERN
SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
m
r*y c
wm-
m
The
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygela Dissol Venator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the NJi.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS'
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIO.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St.. Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
N. Guinea: Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
present leadership, real Russian-
ism will rise as one man in
defence of holy Moscow.”
Turning to the economic situ-
ation —“typical of over-regulated
State capitalism” and “founded
upon the most horrible exploita-
tion of the peasant”—Starlinger
considers that Russia cannot give
more men and materials to farm-
ing, heavy-industry or the con-
sumer-industries without depriv-
ing any two of them:
“Here then, is the Soviet
dilemma: three bottlenecks, and
to solve any one of them means
making the others worse.
“In the opinion of those Rus-
sians who outlined these prob-
lems to me, there appeared to be
only two courses open to the
Soviet Government.
“One course would be to reim-
pose upon the people absolute
and total terrorism —provided
this could be done.
“The peace of the cemetery
could thus be restored by a
single stroke. Demands for im-
provement in living-standards
could be silenced. People could
be shifted around for more in-
tensive exploitation. The need
for expanded consumption of
consumer-goods would be
avoided, and neither the heavy-
industry nor armament-produc-
tion nor aid to China would need
to be curtailed.
“However, this course would
encounter difficulties. Aside
from the psychological diffi-
culties of restoring mass-terror,
there could be no re-creation of
such an effective Cheka as Stalin
commanded until the tug of war
between the big rivals for power
is settled. This may take years.
“So, the rivals probably will
be compelled to attempt a second
possibility—which may represent
a real and permanent solution.
This second course would have
two tracks, though a single goal.
On the one hand, it would seek
a guarantee of peace with the
outside world for years to come.
This would permit a slowdown
in armaments and in aid to
China and a better balance
between agriculture, light-
industry and heavy-industry. At
the same time, foreign trade
would have to be pushed to the
utmost in order to obtain con-
sumer-goods through imports
and simultaneously to win
foreign countries over as ‘peace
partners.’ ”
In external affairs, Starlinger
concludes that the promptness
with which America acted in
Korea and swept England to its
side had a tremendous effect on
Russian thinking and convinced
the Soviet that it “was neither
militarily nor economically in a
position to defeat a united West
under the leadership of the
U.S.”:
“Meanwhile, revolutionary
events have taken place in the
Far East which sooner or later
must alter the whole military
position of the Soviet Union
toward the West. It is certain
that the Chinese Communists
grew powerful much faster than
Russia expected.”
Only one Power, Starlinger
considers, can give China all the
help it needs —America- —but if
the U.S. keeps its doors closed,
and China has to rely on Russia,
China will be compelled to
“starve herself to greatness”—
London “Daily Mail”
THE HOT SEAT
London “Daily Mail" comment on Mr. Gaitskell’s succession
to Mr. Attlee’s problems.
that is, to industrialise at the ex-
pense of the farmer.
At the same time, however,
it seems probable that China’s
increasing population—growing
at a rate of 12-15-million a year
-—will force the country to turn
north and north-west and bring
it face-to-face with the Soviet
and, “as a consequence, China
and Russia must soon separate,
and then a total realignment of
world-power will follow.”
Starlinger believes America
will come to terms with China —
“neutralising South Korea and
Indo-China” in the process —
gaining in return the swift
detachment of China from
Russia, and opening “the door
again to the world’s potentially
greatest consumer-market.” A
second result would be an easing
of Russian pressure in Europe
as the Soviets strove to protect
their rear.
“Within the foreseeable future
it is possible that a new balance
of power will be established. The
U.S., China and Russia will
emerge as the only great Powers.
“The British Commonwealth
can only be on the side of the
United States.
“Among the three great
Powers, each would strive to pro-
tect itself with the aid of the
other two. The most sensitive
and dangerous area would
remain the region around the
Amur River, between China and
Russia. For this reason, the posi-
tion of the Soviet Union within
this concert of Powers would
have to be the weakest of all
three.
“This permanent weakness of
Russia’s position would provide
a great opportunity for Europe
—and Germany.
“When such an accord has
been achieved, then the time will
come for America, together with
Germany and the rest of Europe,
to talk seriously to Russia.
America can then discuss not
only the present Soviet zone of
Germany, but also the former
German territories to the east,
which were put under Soviet and
Polish administration by the
Potsdam agreement, pending the
final peace treaty.
“Then it will be shown that
today’s Communist masters of
Central Germany can be shelved
by Moscow overnight.”
Nato
Commenting on the “remark-
able achievement” of the 15
member-countries of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation in
the joint-planning of their de-
fence, and “in discussing the
equity of the relative burdens
which each has undertaken,”
Professor J. E. Meade (Profes-
sor of Economics at the London
School of Economics) suggests
in a letter to London “Daily
Telegraph” that there is more
yet for these countries to
accomplish.
His comment prompted by
the recent decision of Nato
Council to construct a unified
air-defence and radar-warning
system for Western Europe,
Professor Meade went on to
suggest that “in order to obtain
as equitable and as efficient a
system of defence as possible, we
need economic and financial as
well as technical integration of
our defence-efforts.
“May I,” he wrote, “explain
my meaning by means of a
fable?
“These [British] islands are
threatened with invasion from
Timbuctoo; we have reached
the point at which the armies
of Kent, Sussex, Hampshire,
Dorset, Devon and Cornwall
have all been put under a
single command and equipped
with somewhat similar, arms.
Indeed, we have gone so
far that some men of Kent are
actually stationed in Devon to
guard Plymouth, because we
expect the Timbuctoo forces to
attempt to land there rather
than at Dover./
“We have also organised inter-
county discussions to consider
whether the total forces contri-
buted by Kent, by Devon, and
by the other counties represent
a fair sharing of the burden of
defence between them.
“On the economic side, how-
ever, our arrangements are still
rather crude. \We take it for
granted that as a general prin-
ciple the men of Kent should
be equipped with arms produced
in the factories of Kent and fin-
anced by the ratepayers of Kent.
“Some of the more obvious
absurdities of this principle we
have mitigated by arranging for
exceptional grants-in-aid to be
paid by one county to another.
But how much more equitable
and efficient our defence-effort
might be if we were prepared as
the normal practice to raise
taxes in, say, the City of Lon-
don to purchase low-cost arms
produced in Birmingham in
order to equip the men of Kent
to stand on guard at Plymouth!
“This latter principle is already
applied in the Nato arrange-
ments for the finance of its -infra-
structure’ programmes for the
building of airfields, pipelines,
and the like. In this case the
countries contribute sums of
money to a central financial-pool
in agreed shares; the works are
put out to international tender
and are thus undertaken at the
lowest cost; the installations are
located in the country in which
they are needed on strategic
grounds; and they are used by
whatever forces happen to be
responsible for that part of the
Nato defence-scheme. But they
account for only a small part
of the total defence-expenditures
of the Nato countries.
“Could we not streamline
Nato on the economic side by
applying this ‘infrastructure’-
procedure to more and more
of the defence-expenditures of
the Nato countries? And does
not the decision to undertake a
unified air-defence and radar-
warning system give us an oppor-
tunity for taking an important
step in this direction?”
Various Voices
Archbishop of Canterbury:
“I believe that every deterrent
to Communism—even the H-
bomb —is good, so long as it
deters. When it is used, it be-
comes absolutely useless. It
becomes as useless as a volcano,
which wipes out life and does no
more. So long as it deters, it
buys time, which is the only
thing that is valuable.”
Sir Anthony Eden: “Funda-
mental Communist policy aims
at world-domination. Coexis-
tence, if it is to succeed, has to
be a two-way traffic, and tole-
rance and understanding has to
be shown by the countries
either side. While we are
ready at all times for discussion,
abuse of our friends only
strengthens our loyalties, and
abuse of ourselves only
strengthens our determination.
The world ought to have learned
that by now.”
Eisenhower’s assistant, Sher-
man Adams: “Ownership of
capital is rapidly moving into the
hands of more and more
Americans. Consumer-plant and
-equipment in the possession of
our people, in homes, auto-
mobiles and durable household-
goods, exceeds by one-third the
value of all industrial-plant and
-equipment in the nation. Almost
everybody has a savings-account,
or life-insurance, or belongs to
a pension-plan.”
Mr. Dulles: “It would seem
unnatural for the Soviet rulers
to provide economic aid to
other peoples when peoples they
already rule are themselves in
dire need.”
Mr. Nehru: “What the world
needs in the atomic-age today
is something dynamic and revo-
lutionary, yet the Indian Com-
munists cling to outmoded and
outdated theories and doctrines
that have no relation to fact
today.”
Dr. Lloyd V. Berkner, of New
York University: “The intro-
duction of the [earth] satellite
as a goal of geophysical re-
search probably will be the most
important step that man has
ever taken toward comprehen-
sion of his environment.”
Harold Macmillan : “We have
got to accept the fact that
for the time being the Russians
are really afraid. Of course, I
don’t mean that they are in the
least afraid of our greater
power or material wealth or
productive capacity. On the
contrary, the Soviet Union is
going ahead with great strides
on all this material side of life.
What they are really afraid of
concerns the other side of life,
the spiritual side. They just
aren’t ready to subject their
doctrines or their institutions to
the same kind of critical exami-
nation, for and against, which
we so much enjoy discussing.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
United Nations
The Bulletin may be right in stating
(21/12/’55) that “the proceedings in the
election of new members to U.N.O. add
point to the now-almost-general belief
in the futility of that expensive inter-
national luxury”: as long as reputable
statesmen pay lip-service to U.N.0., and
ignore the lessons of history, many people
will persist in their pathetic reliance on
charters, pacts, etc., or words rather than
deeds, as panaceas for the inherent evils
of mankind and as short-cuts to world
peace.
Sir Percy Spender’s plea for more
regard to “the logic of circumstances”
would have been echoed by Castlereagh
and Metternich were they alive today.
Describing the Holy Alliance the Con-
gress of Vienna (1815), their respective
comments were “a piece of sublime mysti-
fication and nonsense” and “a loud-
sounding nothing.”
• Two fundamental defects in the Charter
of U.N. are its attempt to graft on to a
disturbed world —containing various civi-
lisations, social ideas and political prin-
ciples—only those ideas which are com-
mon to and imperfectly understood by
Western civilisation. It also has the mis-
taken idea that “No secret treaties”
means “No secret diplomacy,” and that
therefore such delicate matters as foreign
relations are best resolved in a public
forum, whereas practice and experience
show that private negotiations are gener-
ally more successful.
Prior to the League of Nations and
U.N.0., the logic of circumstances
reconciled power and responsibility and
the gradual change in prestige
and responsibilities of what we now call
the Big Powers. The Security Council
and the veto, and the use of force by
U.N., are concessions to the logic of cir-
cumstances. But the Charter specifically
designates who are to be the “Big Five,”
and assumes, in theory, that any change
to meet the logic of circumstances can
be made by debate and decision in a
public forum!
The British Commonwealth is the out-
come of a unique experiment in the poli-
tical development of various races,
cultures and creeds. Much of its success
is due to its adapting itself to circum-
stances and to the fact that its linchpin,
Britain, has an “unwritten” Constitution
evolved from centuries of trial and error,
and has, in the process, developed a’ strong
sense of the rule of law. Can the same
be said of the League of Nations or of
U.N.O. ? Or can the unique British poli-
tical experiment continue if tied to the
chariot-wheels of an organisation which,
however high . its ideal, has a false or
dangerous structure and is a direct invi-
tation to people to rely on words rather
than deeds?— Rusty (N.S.W.).
Liquor Hours
The N.Z. Licensing Control Commis-
sion recently reported to Parliament on
aspects of licensing-laws and their appli-
cation, and on drinking-habits of New
Zealanders.
After condemning overcrowded bars
and “the unseemly gulping of liquor,” it
recorded that after-hours drinking was so
much the usual thing in N.Z. that the law
forbidding it had been brought into dis-
repute; consequently it recommended
that the law be changed.
The trade in N.Z. is seeking a change
to 10-o’clock closing, mainly on me
ground that the later closing would
“restore to public drinking the traditional
atmosphere of sociability, comfort and
moderation which present restrictions do
their best to undermine.”
It seems then that there will soon be
extended hours in N.Z. —or, at the least,
modified hours, with hotels closed tor
part of the day. As always, there is oppo-
sition to longer drinking-hours, hence the
compromise of daylight-closing.
There is no real justification for oppo-
sition to longer hours. In N.S.W. the
dire predictions of increased drunkenness
and greater crime l have not been ful-
filled. Nor is there proof of an increase
in car-accidents being directly traceable
to the longer hours —those who wanted to
drink to excess before 10-o’clock closing
usually found p. way.
Another liquor question, that of hotel-
trading on Sundays, has been lately con-
sidered by both the Victorian and Tas-
manian Parliaments. The matter of who
is, who isn’t and who should be a bona
fide “traveller” has been raised; which
leads to the broader problem of whether
there should be open liquor-trading as on
other days of the week. |
There is a moral istfue here ; and there
is certainly better reason for opposition
by religious and temperance bodies to
Sunday-trading than to, say, the longer
spread of hours on weekdays.
However, it seems high time that the
question was resolved one way or the
other —either bars should be closed com-
pletely on Sundays or they should be
open to all. It’s wrong that liquor can
be sold to boarders in hotels and to
“travellers” while the chap round the
corner can’t walk in and order up.
Overseas visitors to the Olympic
Games, accustomed to buying a drink
without any trouble on Sundays, won’t
be too pleased with our present uncertain
laws. — Keith Ross (N.S.W.).
Savings-banks
“Scorpio” (B. 21/12/’55) says the
Government is assured that the major
portion of savings-banks funds will be
invested in its loans. That, to my way of
thinking, is one of the great weaknesses
in the present system. It is a r most
expensive way of collecting funds for
such loans: depositors should be en-
couraged to subscribe direct, instead of
through the agency of a savings-bank.
This has been emphasised by competent
authorities.
As has been stressed in these pages
before, the original purpose of savings-
banks has been widely departed from in
Australia, and funds which should find
their way into the general banking-
system are shovelled into the ever-open
Government loans. The withholding of
all this money from the general banking-
system has had the inevitable effect of
lessening the trading-banks’ ability to
finance the multifarious activities of the
nation —a function they are expected,
and would be only too willing, to under-
take.
The permissible individual maximum
amount on which the savings-banks now
pay interest has been raised progressively
to a figure which places them well beyond
mere banks for “savings.” They are now
used by all sorts of people for all sorts
of purposes other than the small thrift-
accounts for working-people and the
like for which they were primarily in-
tended. It is, no doubt, because of this
trend (one that was criticised by the
Royal Commission on Banking) that
“And come straight back—no funny business !”
some of the trading-banks are entering
the field. Deposits are the lifeblood of
a trading-bank, and if the foregoing prac-
tices are permitted and encouraged the
trading-banks should not be expected to
remain passive. They must take steps to
protect their business from such inroads,
Certainly the money entrusted to them
will be invested over a very wide field
of activity, and that, from a banking
viewpoint, is all to the good. It is never
wise to put all the eggs in one basket —
which is largely what the savings-banks
do with the money entrusted to them. It
“All right! All right! Wait till I put the orchids away for the night”
doesn’t matter whether Government
guarantees come into it or not —the guar-
antee of the State Government of N.S.W.
didn’t have much effect in stopping the
run on, and subsequent closing of, its
savings-bank.
“Scorpio” also notes that experience is
necessary (and worth money) in the con-
duct of savings-banks. How many of the
commissioners of savings-banks (in Vic-
toria, at any rate) have had any practical
experience of banking as a business? It
is to be hoped that the trading-banks,
in their new venture, meet with consider-
able success, and such considerations as
to whether or not they make money
out of “the savings of the people”
have nothing to do with the
case. They will conduct the business,
through their vast network of branches,
economically in conjunction with their
other business, and, as is always the case
with them, service can be relied on. —
Ceg (Vic.).
Shopping-hours
Despite The Bulletin’s editorial
opinion on shopping-hours (B.
21/12/’55), as a housekeeper I contend
that a woman who cannot make provision
to stock her larder in the hours allowed
for trading is a very poor manager indeed.
It would be a sad thing to see hard-
won “trading-order” slip back to the bad
old days for the little shopkeeper as well
as the big fellow.
I deal at a store where men are
employed, and I have my goods delivered.
It’s one delightful moment of my day
to capture a little gracious attention when
placing my weekly order. All around I
see the once-fine country-stores turning
to “cash-and-carry.” It only needs the
little corner-shop having 8 a.m. to
10 p.m. trading to force the big stores
into that trend of economic-competition
where they will dispense with staff
and introduce self-service—T. M.N.
(N.S.W.). _
Olives
I heard on an agricultural broadcast
the other day that a group of Californ-
ians have provided beyond their most
sanguine expectations for their old age
by growing olives as a sideline.
Although the land they bought was not
first-class, they benefited by recent re-
search and used the most up-to-date
methods in their plantations. Returns
now coming in assure them, and their
heirs for many generations —olive-trees
have an estimated life of 700 years —of
comfortable security and even future
wealth.
The influx of New Australians from
Mediterranean countries has increased
the demand here for olives, both green
and black, as well as for olive-oil. The
market here, says Sir Lionel Horwill —
who has wide knowledge of olive-culture
in Italy and Greece, and who has lately
made a survey of olive-growing in N. S.
Wales, S.A. and Victoria—is practically
unlimited. Further, Victorian olives are
equal to the best he has seen overseas,
This is heartening, both for those
pioneers whose early plantings are now
bearing fruit, and for all interested in
future plantings. Chief among Victorian
pioneers is Mr. J. Friedman, of Horsham,
who, from his experience with olives in
Israel, quickly recognised the possibilities
of olive-culture in his new surroundings,
He soon roused sufficient interest and
support to form a company and begin
olive-plantations in the near-by foothills
of the Grampians and at Edenhope,
south-west of Horsham.
Mr. Friedman’s experience and private
research have enabled the Mount Olive
Verdalion Company, of which he is man-
aging-director, to start with the most pro-
fitable varieties and to avoid difficulties
that beset growers in other parts of the
world.
His experiments in crossbreeding in his
Horsham home-garden have now given
the infant industry a new variety which
fruits even in its first year and which has
been pronounced by a visiting expert—
Dr. Dalpero, Professor of Horticulture
at Florence University—as the best olive
in the world. Dr. Dalpero’s report on its
quality aroused wide interest overseas.
It is now being tried-out in California,
where olives have been grown for over
300 years.
The Victorian olive-plantations have
already, in their fifth year, begun to pay
dividends. This early return is possible
because in the deeper soil the trees mature
earlier, produce more heavily and bear
larger olives. These five-year-old Vic-
torian trees, said Dr. Dalpero, are as
mature as 18-year-old trees in Italy.
The Mount Olive Verdalion Company
plans to increase its present 500 acres of
olive-plantation to 12,000 acres ulti-
mately.—Ymar (Vic.).
Dr. Coombs
Liberal supporters can’t be very happy
about the reappointment of Dr. Coombs
as governor of the Commonwealth Bank
for a further term of seven years.
When he originally took over the post
under the Chifley regime the most vigor-
ous criticism was levelled at the action of
the then-Government by the Liberal
Opposition. This barrage was maintained
before and during the elections, when
bank-nationalisation was the paramount
question. It was implied, stated and
expected that another head of the bank
would be found at the end of the existing
arrangements, but this did not eventuate.
Would leading Liberals please explain?
Many Liberal supporters have lost
faith not only in their leaders but also
in the rank-and-file of Parliamentary
members, who have failed to raise their
voices in protest.
Dr. Coombs is Socialist by background,
learning and associations, and was
picked for the post he now holds by a
Government with the avowed object of
securing complete control of banking and
exchange.
With a seven-year term, the stage is
set for a Labor Government during that
period, and they will inherit from the
Liberals and Country party a financial
expert who will be happy to carry out
their Socialist programme, with which
he will be 100 per cent, sympathetic.—
C.B.M. (N.S.W.).


Loans
Small investors would subscribe more
willingly to loans if the period of redemp-
tion was made substantially shorter.
They would be more attracted by that
than by a higher interest-rate.
A small holder often finds it necessary
to dispose of part, or the whole, of stock
years before the date listed for maturity.
In a period of inflation such as Australia
has had for several years the saleable
value of a bond-issue will decline if new
issues bear higher rates. In 1946, for
instance, Joe Blow put £lOO in a Sydney
Water Board issue, maturing about 20
years later. In 1952 the holding had to be
sold. It brought only £B4. Joe is now
chary, of tying money up in a long-term
loan again, and there must be thousands
like him.
Oversubscription to loans would be
more likely if two classes of bonds, bear-
ing the maximum rate of interest, were
issued —long-term for the financial insti-
tutions and big investors, and shorter
term, with a specific capital-ceiling, to
attract small savings.
Many people with a few hundred in the
bank would support Commonwealth and
public-utility issues if they had to wait
only a few years for maturity and received
a higher return than bank-interest pro-
vides. — Economist (N.S.W.).
Canberra
“Howie Wing’s” reference to
Canberra as a “useless mock-
city” (B. 30/11/’55) was an
unkind cut Few would deny
that Canberra is a mock-city at
the moment, but it will, not
always be so. Since the end of
World War II each year has seen
considerable progress towards the
goal of the planners.
Views such as those held by
“Howie Wing,” especially when
held in high places, have done
a great deal to retard the growth
of the national capital. It’s sur-
prising how many representatives
who sit in the national Parlia-
ment hate the sight of Canberra
and never miss an opportunity
to decry and undermine it.
When influential people like
members of Parliament also
consider that Canberra is a
useless extravagance, it is small
wonder that the Burley Griffin plan should
have been so messed-about and amended
down the years that, today, it is hard to
appreciate that there ever was a plan.
The fact that there are so many ugly
temporary public-buildings scattered over
a beautiful landscape is due almost en-
tirely to the antagonism of members of
Parliament to the establishment of a
national capital.
The hordes of tourists who come to
Canberra from all States of the Common-
wealth show the greatest interest in the
place, despite its shortcomings and the
obvious evidence of cheeseparing. To
judge by the number of amateur photo-
graphers who may be seen any day of the
week snapping Parliament House, the
King George V and Robbie Bums
statues, the War Memorial, and the few
other architecturally presentable struc-
tures, there are some residents of the
States who see something worth while
here. There would be a great deal more
for them to see if the wishes of the
founders had not been disregarded so
often in the interests of political
expedience.
Those who think that expenditure on
Canberra is wasteful and unnecessary
should reflect that Canberra is not the
only artificial national capital in the
world. Washington, Ankara, New Delhi,
and even Bonn, can be placed in that
category. Perhaps the newest capital of
all is Chandigarh, being built in Punjab
to the designs of such great contemporary
architects as Le Corbusier and Maxwell
Fry. If the Punjab can afford to build a
brand-new city from the ground up,
surely Australia, rich by comparison, can
find a few millions for a national city
that will be worthy of us. —A. W. F.
(A.C.T.).
Hadrian
Surely Hadrian (B. 28/12/’55) had
nothing to do with the decline of the
Roman Empire, except in size, and that
to no important extent. He adopted the
sensible policy of consolidation in an
empire that had already grown too large
for efficient administrative purposes,
given the means of communication then
available.
Hadrian’s Wall in Great Britain was
symbolic of his sensible policy, for noth-
ing was to be gained from a conquest of
the Highlands, even if it were practicable.
So in Dacia. Beyond lay the illimitable
Eurasian plains. Again towards Parthia
and Persia. There Trajan had pursued
an expansive policy that nearly resulted
in a supreme disaster. Hadrian was
wiser.
In any case it is very likely that Roman
merchants were already making quite
plain the lessons to be had from such a
book as one of their number was soon
to write, The Periplus of the Erythraean
Sea (see the recent Pelican of Sir Morti-
mer Wheeler: Rome Beyond the Imperial
Frontiers ) —namely, that beyond Persia
there were nations after nations of civi-
lised men, and huge lands stretching out
indefinitely. World-conquest was entirely
impracticable in the circumstances of the
time. Hadrian’s sensible policy acknow-
ledged it. Gibbon, looking merely at the
Roman Empire of the Antonines, had
no right to pronounce that then was the
happiest and most prosperous time ever
“for the human race.” It had already
become apparent that most of the human
race dwelt beyond the confines of Rome,
“You are underweight. Build your-
self up with Bunko's Crunchy
Cornflakes for your breakfast.
Yum yum!”
and this fact as much as any inner defect
broke the Roman imperium in the end.
The manpower wasn’t there to hold even
the Danube Line.
“Kros” mentions Hadrian’s literary
efforts and, like everyone else in reviewing
Marguerite Yourcenar’s novel, mentions
his dying address to his soul, quoting
“Animula vagula, blandula.” May I
“ He's putting the child to sleep!”
offer a translation I made of the full
poem some few years ago:
Winsome little wanderer,
Bosom’s friend and body’s guest,
Pallid, cold, and spirit-bare,
Whither now to thy last rest?
Unwontedly serious . . . Not one jest!
He is better known for that than for
being an Emperor.—M. H. (Q.).
Child-endowment
The granting of child-endowment to
all and sundry while applicants for the
old-age pension have to pass a means test
is not so unreasonable as “Pandanus”
suggests (B. 21/12/’55).
The old-age pension, now £4 a week, is
far more expensive per head than child-
endowment. That factor apart, “P.’s”
argument that many recipients of child-
endowment don’t really need the money
is also applicable to a lot of old-age pen-
sioners. Not a few pensioners own their
homes, free of mortgage, and have rela-
tives living with them who meet the
household expenses. The pension, for
such, is just pocketmoney.
Then there is the growing section who,
having savings in excess of the statutory
allowance, go on an expensive tour
abroad or stock their homes with new
furniture and acquire an up-to-date car,
thus reducing their capital to the limit
that will entitle them to the pension.
Have these people any more real moral
claim to an old-age pension than a young
couple who could bring their children up
without it have to child-endowment?
If the older people didn’t have child-
endowment when bringing-up their fami-
lies, they paid far smaller taxes and
municipal rates. They also found the
cost of living relatively much lower and
they could buy land and get a house
built far more cheaply.— Castlereagh
(N.S.W.).
Harbor “Improvements”
Having seen most of the harbor-works
at such places as Yamba-Iluka, Bellinger
River and Coffs Harbor on the N.S.W.
North Coast, I was very interested to see
what has been done at Apollo Bay on
the southern coast of Victoria, and at
Queenscliff near Port Phillip Heads.
If all these works of man prove any-
thing, it is that wind, sand and water
are the most unpredictable things in the
world. On paper the plans for the works
look all very fine and large, but, almost
inevitably, the end-result seems to be a
silting-up.
The latest experiment at Apollo Bay
has cost about £250,000, and already a
sand-bar has developed across the en-
trance to the new harbor. (By “harbor”
I don’t mean anything capable of taking
other than small fishing-boats, of which
there are only a few at Apollo Bay.)
Two of the larger sharkboat-owners are
reported as leaving in order to fish from
other ports, as they are afraid of being
trapped inside the harbor; some of the
other smaller boats are now mooring
outside.
So much for the expenditure of
£250,000 of taxpayers’ money. Surely it
would have been much more sensible for
the State Government to have presented
the fishermen concerned with £lO,OOO
each. What the Queenscliff works have
cost is anybody’s guess, and, judging by
the fish on sale at the local fishermen’s
co-op.—coota and “flake” —the same
might well have been done there.
Now it is announced that the inevitable
dredge is going to Apollo Bay, but unless
it is to stay there indefinitely anything it
can do will only be a palliative and a
further loss of public money.
The engineer of the Victorian Public
Works Department who went down to
the Bay to inspect the sand-bar couldn’t
have been surprised—a sand-bar was
about all that could have been expected,
and if the engineers are interested in
such things they could study them in
N.S.W., instead of building their own. —
Chas. Cooter (Vic.).
Coal
History doesn’t support “No Sirrah’s”
statement (B. 14/12/’55) that “the indus-
trial nations of Europe did not build their
greatness by exporting coal.”
England, the first European country
to develop large-scale coal-production,
has beeira great exporter of coal, which
could be sold cheaply in world-markets
because it was often carried as ballast
by outward-bound trading-ships. British
control of coal-bunkers at strategic spots
all over the world gave the Imperial Gov-
ernment a big diplomatic advantage from
the beginning of the steamship-age until
after World War I, when oil began to
replace coal as fuel for naval- and
merchant-ships.
The building-up of Britain’s long
supremacy in heavy-industry in the 18th
and early-19 th centuries was made possible
by the huge deposits of iron and coal
close to each other and also within easy
access of inland water-transport and good
ports. These became invaluable with the
discovery, in the mid-18th century, of pro-
cesses of smelting iron-ore with coal and
coke.
Other countries with extensive coal-
deposits—Germany and Belgium, for in-
stance —have also exported large amounts
to countries that lacked adequate sup-
plies or found it more economical to buy
abroad. Iron-ore, too, has been widely
exported by European producers. British
ironmasters, for a good many years past,
have taken large quantities from Bilbao,
in Spain—where British capital has played
a big part in developing the mines—and
from Sweden and elsewhere. — Cunedda
(N.S.W.).
Petrol
Old customs die hard, and the high-
priests of associations connected with
distribution of petrol are still protesting
bitterly against the introduction of rea-
sonable business-hours in Victoria by
the Bolte Government.
Some ridiculous arguments have been
used against the extension of trading-
hours. It has been claimed that self-
service pumps are not safe. Apparently
the : r use in other countries must be due
to the. fact that the people in those coun-
tries have far greater intelligence than
those in Australia.
On the other hand it is suggested that
self-service pumps will reduce employ-
ment. That argument might be tenable
in a period of unemployment, but it is
plainly ridiculous at the present time.
—MacD. (Vic.).
Gordon’s Cottage
In “Brief Answers” (B. 21/12/’55) it
was stated that a photo of Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s cottage at Dingley Dell
would be found in “The Lone Hand” for
October, 1912. This photo would not
give the inquirer a true picture of the
cottage as it is today.
The land on which the cottage is built
was originally granted to Peter Dowding
Prankerd on July 10, 1861. At the time
the area was 101 acres or thereabouts.
On April 7, 1864, Gordon became the
owner. Gordon lost his interest in it on
September 18, 1867. Eventually, after
many changes of ownership, the land
and cottage were purchased by the South
Australian Government as a national
pleasure-resort (February 17, 1922).
The purchase was made on the recom-
mendation of a Mt. Gambier committee
of Gordon admirers, who agreed to fence
the property and renovate the cottage.
The first caretaker was Elliott Perryman,
a poet with a splendid war-record. He
resigned on February 26, 1923. Another
caretaker took charge (Cutting) until
November 11, 1932, when the present
caretaker, F. 8.. Kekewich, took over.
Under his charge the cottage is a very
different proposition from the Dingley
Dell of 1912.
It is to be regretted that the S.A. Gov-
ernment does not build a residence for
the caretaker, so that the whole of Ding-
ley Dell could be a repository of Gordon-
iana similar to that in the Gordon Cottage
at Ballarat, which is visited by thousands
of visitors each year. At threepence
admission-fee, the Ballarat committee has
a substantial credit-balance. No difficulty
would be found in filling Dingley Dell
with exhibits.—,
J. K. (Vic.).


Many cattle-owners consider
that marking calves by Elas-
trator rubber rings means
loss of the cod. If the rings
are used according to in-
structions this fear is quite
unfounded. Amongst thous-
ands of cattle-men who are
now regular users of Elas-
trator rubber rings one
crystalised the experience of
all when, after marking 90
Bull Calves, he wrote—“ The
thing that surprised me
more than anything was
that they were in good con-
dition with fat cods.”
$
m
CATTLE
TROUGHING
Hii Idr.
-ININGS
o
o
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that’s why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE,
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE TUMUT DISTRICT
'TTJMUT, on the N.S.W. south-
-*• west slopes, is one of the
prettiest parts of the State.
Landscape-painters have made
its poplars, its racecourse, its
green river-flats and sharp
backdrop of mountains familiar
to a good many people who
have never seen the place. And,
over the last few years, the
development of the Snowy
Mountains scheme has changed
the character of the town.
But the development of the
district itself, the agricultural
and grazing story, is also
interesting, both intrinsically and
as an illustration of changes
that are taking place in many
parts of the country.
When Hume and Hovell
“discovered” Tumut in 1824,
they crossed the Tumut River
at Blowering station, a few
miles out of Tumut. This
property, now owned by Mr.
Oliver Lodge, has some of the
best country in the district. It
is well known for its Romney
Marsh sheep and Hereford
cattle, and the pasture-grasses
are a special feature. Even the
once-forbidding hills are now
green. Blowering has been
supered by plane in the last few
years.
Talbingo station, on the road
to the Snowy country, has
become well known of recent
years for the intense-feeding
system for cattle prior to truck-
ing to the Sydney market, first
adopted by Mr. Hooper, and
now by the Day family. Moun-
tain cattle, from higher eleva-
tions, too, are much sought after
by buyers (from both Victoria
and N.S.W.) at the Tumut and
Adelong sales. Adelong is 10
miles from Tumut.
The district has many acres of
alluvial river-flats. This low
country grows good clovers, rye-
grass, paspalum and phalaris.
The cultivated portions grow
lucerne, maize, millet and
tobacco.
Gocup, a few miles on the
Gundagai side of Tumut, with
its lush pastures fronting the
Murrumbidgee, is another rich
spot. There you can see
hundreds of Black Poll cattle
grazing on the river-flats.
Carrying-capacity in this area
is about one breeding-cow, or
one fattening bullock, to the
acre.
Tumut has some fine cattle-
studs,, both beef-breeds and
dairy-breeds. As an example of
the latter, C. G. Withers’s pro-
perty, where Jerseys are bred.
The stud is founded on (N.S.W.)
South Coast Jersey, and a recent
importation is from the Isle of
Jersey. Mr. Withers has, too, a
Berkshire-stud.
Mr. Burbury’s property, The
Lagoon, on the Adelong side of
Tumut, has improved-pasture,
cattle and sheep. Mr. Burbury
was a pioneer of pasture-
improvement in the district, and
it is his considered opinion that
most of the grazing-land in the
district could be brought up to
the standard of his own land,
given the right treatment. First,
he says, establish sub.-clover;
then, when the fertility has been
built-up, introduce grasses.
Perennial rye-grass, particularly
Clunes, has been found most
suitable.
Corriedale sheep are run on
The Lagoon. Wool-count is 56
to 58, the greater part 58. Only
wether-lambs are sold, some as
fat-lambs, mainly in Sydney;
others are sold to local buyers
for wool-growing ; in either case
these lambs are sold at the age
of four to five months. The
breeding-ewes and ewe-hoggets
(no wethers) at last shearing
averaged 10|lb. of wool. One
line of 1000 two- and three-year-
olds cut 121 b. of wool per head.
Cattle are run in every
paddock at the rate of about one
beast to every seven sheep.
Bullocks are sold as fats —never
as stores.
The district has also produced
some good racehorses the
Hughes stud is well known.
And, as evidence of another sort
of horsemanship, the annual
rodeo, to which the mountain
boys come down from Yiack
and Lobs Hole, Cooma, and
Nimmitybell. There are still
brumbies in “the mountains.”
Local graziers who hold snow-
leases still join the wild brumby
round-up when they go into the
mountain country to inspect
their cattle and sheep.
A Tumut-district grazier gave
writer a few points on his
management of sheep on his
property at Gilmore. This man
buys Merinos. When I asked
him what extra care these
western sheep needed on Tumut
country he said a strict
drenching- and inoculation-
programme was necessary; but,
generally, the sheep did very
well. For instance, he bought
400 \\ - year - old Willandra
(Hillston) ewes in February,
1955: these were June-shorn
(1954), and cost £6 10s. per head.
The grazier had this fine of
sheep shorn the next month, in
March. Yield of wool was 71b.
per head.
The Willandra ewes were
then joined to Willandra rams
in March and run on heavily-
improved paddocks of sub.-
clover and Wimmera-rye. The
usual drenching-programme was
adhered to.
Inoculation was not neces-
sary, as these sheep came from
very sound country. The sheep
were changed from paddock to
paddock, in rotational-grazing
fashion, every 10 days.
Hillston, of course, is very
flat country; on the Tumut
property the ewes were grazing
on fairly flat country, and one
paddock had a creek-frontage.
In September, 1955, 75 per cent,
of lambs were marked; losses
were caused, in owner’s opinion,
by too much clover and not
enough exercise on the flat
country. Ewes were fairly fat,
and, being maiden ewes, some
losses were expected. They
lambed in cold, wet weather
(1061 points were registered on
the property in August). The
usual dreochmg-programme was
followed again. The wool-
count was about 60’s. Ewes
were fat when bought and were
in forward to fat condition at
the end of the old year.
District resources include
beef-cattle, dairying, sheep,
maize, broom-millet, tobacco—
and also timber. In fact, quite
a lot of timber. There was a
recent timber - conference at
Tumut, with representatives of
the timber-industry and the
Governmental bodies concerned
from New South Wales, Vic-
toria and Tasmania. Main
object of the conference was to
work-out better methods of
seasoning timber. Industries
represented were sawmillers, and
manufacturers of veneers, sports-
“Four salary will be commensurate with your
tractor-manipulation ability."
equipment, furniture, boxes,
hardboard.
A Forestry official said that
Tumut was becoming the princi-
pal centre of the State for the
production of Monterey-pine
(Pinus radiata ).. Two pine-mills
in operation are in the area, and
a third is being built at Gilmore,
a few miles out of Tumut. A
very ambitious tree-planting pro-
gramme has been planned for
the area. The rate of growth is
high, and the quality good.
Plans also provided for the
manufacture of pulp and ply-
wood. The Forestry-man said
that production of the area
would probably rise to
30-million super, feet annually.
The district’s main timber
country is east of Tumut, within
a main altitude-range of approxi-
mately 2000 ft - to 4000 ft.
Native - timber species are
peppermints, messmate, six types
of gums, boxes (where these
grow, especially the white-box,
there is always sound grazing-
country), stringybark (good for
flooring-boards), and mountain-
ash, which is now processed and
called Monterey-pine; this last
is used for interior furnishing,
and as exterior woodwork in
homes now being built (though
precautions must be taken if in
white-ant country). The main
Pinus species planted by the
Forestry Commission is Pinus
radiata. Other exotic . species
that have been planted are
Corsican - pine, sugar - pine,
western - yellow - pine, and
Oregon.
Taken all round, Tumut is a
sound little district, with excel-
lent prospects of development.
Mary Last.
Wild Dogs
“80-peep”: “Geep’s” con-
tribution under this heading
(B. 14/12/’55) will surprise most
pastoralists here in the W.A.
sheep-country. Apart from the
first paragraph, which merely
records aerial-baiting done re-
cently, the whole statement is so
much at variance with the actual
position that it needs correction.
The bonus-system is still
favored by all the district-com-
mittees of the Pastoralists
Association of W.A., and these
are the people who foot the bill
—and they are not fools. Aerial-
baiting is done both by the De-
partment of Agriculture and by
individual pastoralists only
over inaccessible areas and un-
occupied country.
If vermin-farming has been
practised neither the depart-
ment nor individual pastoralists
know anything about it. As for
“Geep’s” statement that “preg-
nant females were unharmed”
—if anyone has devised a
method which will differentiate
between the pregnant female
and any other dingo when trap-
ping, poisoning or even shooting
dingoes, he is wasting his time in
the bush. Or is the dingo
caught and inspected first?
The argument of dingo-farm-
ing is a useful one for those who
oppose the bonus-system, but
no practical man can support
it. The bonus-system has killed
enough dingoes on 200-million
acres of pastoral country in this
State for sheep to be carried in
that country.
Finally, although Government
doggers, generally, do a good
job, it is known that they simply
would not operate in many areas
but for the added incentive of
the bonus —not the £1 Govern-
ment bonus, but the bonus
varying up to £lO paid in most
pastoral country.
Foot-abscess
“Farmer Bill”: A non-con-
tagious infection of the feet of
sheep, foot-abscess is usually
caused by a soil-organism, Fusi-
formis necrophorus. It is com-
mon among the older members
of the flock, a rarity in hoggets
and young sheep.
Animals with overgrown feet,
grazing under the same wet con-
ditions that induce footrot, are
the most frequent sufferers. Mud
packed between the heels can
lead to the trouble. First signs
are acute lameness, the animal
often carrying a leg.
Since footrot, foot-abscess
and separated wall of the foot
may all be present in one flock,
the only safe plan is to examine
the feet of as many of the lame
sheep as possible. Where there
is any doubt whatsoever, a vet.
should be called in: the im-
portant thing is to decide
whether footrot is present or
not.
On its own, or as a complica-
tion of footrot, foot-abscess is
not difficult to recognise. Only
one claw is usually affected, but
that one is hot to the touch and
painful, the animal flinching
when it is pressed. There is no
distinctive smell.
The first thing to do is to clean
the foot gently, using a brush if
necessary.
In the early stages you may
not find an open lesion but when
you pare the sole in the region
of the toe —a job which should
be done carefully—you will find
thick, imprisoned pus.
In the more advanced cases pus
may under-run the sole or break-
out at the coronet, usually above
the toe, sometimes above the
interdigital cleft. This stage of
the condition can result in severe
damage to the internal foot-
structure or the enlargement of
the single claw.
Careful diagnosis is needed
when, due to badly formed feet,
the heels rub together and the
abscess forms in the region of the
heel. This is so close to the
spot on which footrot breaks-out
that it can often be mistaken for
that disease.
However, foot-abscess in this
region is marked by severe in-
flammation, proud-flesh which
bleeds easily, and considerable
pain. Heel-tissues, ligaments and
tendons are quickly undermined
with pus which eventually
breaks-out at the heel or above
the coronet. In some sheep the
infection penetrates through the
minute channel in the toe often
known as the “breather space,”
and from there runs up the inner
wall at the toe.
For early cases, treatment is
simple: when the horn is care-
fully pared away at the tender


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach*
m ent illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS'
BOY"
ROTARY
SCYTHE
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you :
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-opeiauve Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q'LiAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
116 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
HERE’S THE WAY TO SAVE MONEY!
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
3po, i M
f EQUIPMKNT . *
McCormick International 3-point linkage equipment costs less, lasts
longer, is faster and does a more
accurate job. Save money by
choosing your working partner
from this full range:-
■
mmo!
m
§
p
mtflfe
sxx
> d?* &W : W <
••
WmWmm.
■ V,
PLOUGHS: 2 and •? t
2 and 3 furrow 1 1,/™'°"' * sc >
4 furrow toolbar mouldboa d* 3 ’l 3
toolbar. HARROWS- S ' d 5 ‘ ln ft ** *"
yards.
and % yd. CARRY lipt m
RIPPERS- c , UFT PLA TFORM:
RS. Single and double tine.
VI wide range of
equipment for this
Work Zone!
°” *»• *»*
information and .arrange for ! ,f qmpment ’ get fop
equipment y ou choose demonstration of the
International Harvester
Ltd TV m . Pany of Australia Pty
i-td. District Sales . y '
Capital Citfe Wo’fe tT,," *“
“ d G “'=»g, Victoria. ""“ 5
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
Box 4305, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vie.
! Please send me a free booklet on
your 3-point linkage equipment.
NAME
ADDRESS
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
spot until the pus is released, the
animal recovers quickly. Where
the pus has broken-out at the
coronet or between the heels,
trimming of the foot with a pair
of secateurs and keeping the
animal off muddy ground usually
brings about'full recovery. Bjit
if the hoof has become chroni-
cally soft, and the soft tissues
within the foot are also affected,
it is difficult to effect a cure.
While both sulphamethazine
and penicillin may be useful in
early cases, they are of little
value in old and chronic ones.
Foot-bathing gives little relief,
if any.
As always, prevention is better
than cure. Keep the sheep’s feet
in good order by regular trim-
ming, and keep the sheep off
wet ground. Low-lying areas
during heavy rainfalls are
danger-zones.
Seed-potatoes
“Hortus”: Dying and blacken-
ing of tips of seed-potato
sprouts usually cause production
of lateral branches about half-
way down: normal develop-
ment is retarded. On the other
hand, plants from sets not
affected in this way reach mat-
urity sooner. What’s more, they
begin to die-off as much as
three weeks earlier.
Dying and blackening of tips
never occur in tubers sprouted
in good light. Quite a lot of
tubers which sprout while in
sacks are affected. It seems
likely that slight bruising is the
cause of blackening. But when
shoots grown in bright light be-
come slightly bruised, no marked
blackening is noticed.
The remedy is simple. Ar-
range trays in sprouting-room
so that maximum of light falls
on tubers. Don’t put more
than 281 b. seed in an 18in.-by-
30in. tray. It’s also wise to
change position of trays at least
once during the sprouting-
period.
Mallee Champ.
“Minapre”: Comparatively
young Allen E. Barbary, who
won the 1955 Victorian Mallee
wheat-championship with a
record yield of some 46 bushels
to the acre, could lay a strong
claim to being champion farmer
of the State’s north-west
country.
His other successes during the
last few years have included the
Hanslow Cup for soil-conserva-
tion and the pasture-champion-
ship of the Southern Mallee. He
also has a leading Dorset Horn
stud.
Allen’s father, P.D., was one
of the pioneers of the Woome-
lang district. Allen’s son, Rex,
was also a finalist in this sea-
son’s wheat - championship.
Like all other finalists in the
last two years, father and son
exhibited Insignia wheat. Rex
showed some Sherpa in his entry.
In addition to conducting the
Department of Agriculture’s
wheat-plots on his property since
1940, Allen has been a leading
sower of barrel-medic, which has
lifted production and quality
greatly. Last year, he harvested
a lot of medic-seed. This season,
he cut thousands of bales of
grass-hay, including an attrac-
tive oats-medic mixture.
Keep Stock Growing
“San Joaquin”: The advan-
tage of keeping young stock
growing continuously, without
a check, has been demonstrated
in the last 20 years by Hammond
at Cambridge (Eng.), McMeekan
(N.Z.), and by workers in Aus-
tralia and the U.S.A.
In Sydney, before he went
back to the U.S. last year, Pro-
fessor George Hart, of California
University, gave us another slant
on the process when he said that,
although animals that lost or
maintained weight during the
winter made greater gains in the
spring than those that had been
growing continuously because
of supplementary feed, the
starved animals never completely
bridged the gap caused by
weight lost when checked by
poor nutrition.
Good feeding early, followed
by poor nutrition, produced
carcasses high in lean and lower
in fat than when the reverse
occurred even when final
weights were the same.
Good nutrition speeded de-
velopment of thickness-growth
—especially in later-maturing
parts such as the loin and hind-
quarter.
Litchi-tree
“C.P.”: The litchi, a native of
southern China, is one of the
several Asian trees which have
become established in North
Queensland.
This tree thrives in the tropics
and will do well in sub-tropical
areas provided it has wet, humid
conditions and is grown in loamy
soil. Unpruned, the tree will
grow to a height of 40ft., with
dense foliage.
The fruit appears in clusters,
is flattish-oval in shape, and
grows to lyin. in length. The
jellylike flesh is sub-acid in
flavor.
Prospects for marketing litchi-
fruit would be good if its quality
was more widely known. At
present few outside the residents
of Northern Queensland are
familiar with it.
Better Grain, Better
Yield
“Ray Deer”: Victorian Agri-
cultural Department’s plant-
breeders are seeing good results
of long-term work, with release
of a new oat and a new wheat
in late 1955.
The oat, Burke Seln., was an-
nounced at Walpeup field-day in
October. The wheat —Baldmin
by Quadrat —was made known
at Longerenong early in Decem-
ber.
The new wheat (yet to be
named, and unlikely to be avail-
able to farmers before 1957
seeding) has the rare combina-
tion of yield and quality. Lead-
ing plant-breeder Allan Raw
forecasts more varieties with
these desirable characteristics.
Both parents of the new wheat
have done well in Victoria. The
white-headed Baldmin (Bald
Early by Minister) gave good
yield and quality, but brittle
straw.
Quadrat, a brown-chaffed
combination of Ghurka, Curra-
wa, Major and Gallipoli (remem-
ber them?), has been popular
since released about 1942.
The new crossbred is a white-
chaffed variety of a slightly
earlier maturity than the mid-
season Quadrat.
Farm Hints
“S.”: Quality of eggshells
can be improved by the use of
manganese-sulphate. Include
|oz. manganese-sulphate with
every 1001 b. of feed. This costs
less than Id., and is particularly
important during the summer.
Easiest way to give it to the
fowls is to add |oz. to each lib.
of salt and mix this with every
101 b. of meatmeal (given to bal-
ance an all-grain diet). One per
cent, of the manganese-salt mix-
ture should be included in any
mash in which bran and pollard
constitute less than 50 per cent,
of the ingredients.
“Big Billy”: Weevils do a lot
of damage to tomato-crops dur-
ing the hours of darkness. Dust
with 50 per cent, lead-arsenate.
Apply early in the day when the
dew is still on the leaves. As an
added safeguard, when trans-
planting dip the plants in a lead-
arsenate mixture of the same
strength as the spray.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(1/1/’56)
Tropical influences should become . active during
January, and heavy rains should be experienced throughout
the coastal belt and north-west of Queensland. These rains
should extend southward down the eastern highlands of
N.S.W. and into East Gippsland. Good falls should also
move down into the inland pastoral areas of South Aus-
tralia.
During February, heavy rains are likely to continue
in the northern areas and sovfth-west of Queensland, but
light to moderate elsewhere. Moderate rain may be
received on the coast and portion of the tablelands of
N.S.W., but rainfall poor in the balance of the State, with
little general relief until June.
February should prove to be a dry, generally hot
month in Victoria and South Australia.
In Western Australia, portion of the Fortescue and
lower south coast may receive good rains during February,
but light elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tlie Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’* to
be posted weekly to—
NAME . ...r.... .....
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/19/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
COARDX
Ca&k/
stMth/ds
PROTECTA If*
GttnL-S&li RlgUisJurttg
TILL r >
Suitable for every type of business It records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents *—
SYDNEY . W. C. Penfold d> Co. Ply. Ltd.
MELBOURNE , . Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Vardon Price Ltd.
PERTH , . Docket Book Co. (AtuM
paper, and in those directions he
was unrivalled.
Either S. H. Prior or James
Edmond said that he had no
real knowledge of finance and
economics. His political opinions
were clear and definite enough,
but he rarely read-up the evi-
dence for or against them in
books. In fact, books of reference
of all sorts were his bane. When
forced to write about politics he
generally wrote against the
people who advocated the prin-
ciples to which he was opposed.
He took an impish pleasure in
attacking such and such a judge
or such and such a politician
who had aroused his enmity.
Some he pursued to their graves ;
other feuds ended only with his
own death.
Archibald’s handwriting ' —
small, sharp-pointed and indi-
vidual —was an indication of his
mercurial temperament. His
“copy” was most difficult to read,
being a jumble of abbreviations,
emendations and erasures. He
wrote on any old sheet of paper
that was handy; and when he
had finished with a printer’s
proof it was so mutilated that it
almost defied comprehension.
He had no idea of system,
and no printer according to
W. H. East, one-time Bulletin
foreman-compositor—ever had a
more difficult man to deal with.
After slashing and cutting a
manuscript or mutilating a proof
he was extremely reluctant to
pass either on to the composing-
room. The consequence was that
the final rush was something to
be remembered, and his irascible
temper found vent in maledic-
tions on all concerned because
matter he wanted in the issue had
been omitted. . The Bulletin
compositors could not under-
stand how an editor who had
served time as a stone-hand him-
self could show so little con-
sideration for the composing
department.
He had a mania for pigeon-
holing, and his desk was always' *
in such confusion that he could
never find the priceless thing he
wanted. His associate-editor,
James Edmond, frequently com-
plained that his maddening sys-
tem of doling out accepted manu-
scripts to the printers as if he
loathed to part with them
delayed the make-up of the
paper. Archibald would explain
that he was building-up a
“reserve for a rainy day.”
“Rainy day!” Edmond once
exploded. “What you’re saving
up for is the Second Deluge! ”
Archibald’s personal appear-
ance was in keeping with his
mental characteristics. When
young he was slightly above
medium height, of slim build
with dark penetrating eyes. He
was careful of his dress, and
took great pains to have his jet-
black beard pointed and his long
moustache waxed. Mrs. William
Macleod said in her book,
Macleod of The Bulletin, that in
his later years Archibald was
“frail, nervy, mercurial, intellec-
tually arrogant, full of likeable
little vanities, and a continuous
and usually witty and inform-
ative talker.”
Archibald revelled in conver-
sation and could entertain you
by the hour; he was always the
centre of a group at the
Athenaeum Club in Sydney. He
lived well and was surrounded
by friends. He was fond of
vintage wines and delicate dishes.
John Bede Dailey, one-time
Bulletin sub-editor, once
recalled the rapture with which
Archibald described a prawn-
curry dish, made as only Mauri-
tian people can make such a
delicacy, which he had sampled
ages before at a dinner in
Melbourne.
Archibald loved fine jewels
just as he loved fine writing and
good pictures. As Vance Palmer
noted in his Legend of the
’Nineties, Archibald “bought
Longstaff’s ‘Breaking the News’
in days when few bought pic-
tures, and commissioned him to
paint a portrait of Lawson. He
was also instrumental in getting
commissions for the youthful
Florence Rodway, in spite of his
distrust of feminine influence in
the Arts and his oft-repeated
little quip: ‘You can never be
kind to a woman with im-
punity.’ ”
Many of the stories Archibald
told had been related to him by
an old Frenchman who kept a
small tobacco-shop in George-
street, Sydney, not far from;
Circular Quay. The old fellow-
had lost both his hands. Joseph
Conrad used the same
tobacconist as a character in one
of his stories, and in a letter
to The Bulletin said: “He used
to spin long, Melanesian yarns,
but he was not very interesting
—except for the pent-up store
of energy in that maimed body.”
Almost all his life Archibald
was a hypochondriac. His office
was more like a pharmacy than
an editor’s sanctum. John
Farrell, the poet, had the same
passion as Archibald for medi-
cines. The pair of them used to
discuss their ailments together
for hours.
James Edmond said it
would have been better for
Archibald if he had had a
hobby. The nearest he got to
one was fishing in his early
years. But he soon gave up the
habit, said Edmond, or rather
he forgot about the habit in his
journalistic activities.
Being asked once in his twi-
light years if he had any special
amusements, Archibald said he
had devoted some time to collect-
ing and studying bores, whom
he unearthed in clubs and other
haunts, and that he meant to
bequeath his collection to the
nation.
It was said that, sociable
as he was, few people knew him,
though thousands thought they
did, and that he could entertain
you, but he could not open his
heart to you. He was kind to
failures provided they were not
rich and pretentious failures. A
good many budding newspaper
hacks, who looked like becoming
sub-editors to small country job-
printeries in their old age, he
steered with much trouble into
other and more hopeful walks
of life.
Archibald’s retirement from
the editorial chair in 1902, when
he was 46, was caused through
ill-health, but he could not rest,
and was continually at William
Macleod to establish another
paper, either one not quite as
good as The Bulletin which
would us© up some of the over-
flow from the parent paper, or
a high-class magazine. Much
against Macleod’s wish Archi-
bald had his way, and “The
Lone Hand,” as high-class as
money and brains could produce,
began its career on May 1, 1907,
with Frank Fox as editor, and
Archibald acting in an advisory
capacity. It remained a Bulletin
publication for about seven years.
About 1914 Archibald sold his
interests in The Bulletin to its
working partners and remained
out of journalism until “Smith’s
Weekly” was established by
Joynton Smith in 1918. Archi-
bald became literary editor of the
new paper, was responsible for its
form and structure and wrote
largely for its columns.
On his death, on September
11, 1919, a “Smith’s Weekly”
writer summed-up his career:
“Archibald had no fixed idea on
literature and art, no belief in
journalistic formulae ; he trusted
invariably in his intuitions and
they never betrayed him.”
us with more and yet more
leisure to fill.
It may be that TV will provide
its own cure for any tendency
to sit too long and watch other
people do things. A book my
grandmother owned guaranteed
the following as a cure for ,
alcoholism: The drinker’s every
meal was to be smothered in
whatever happened to be his
favorite tipple. His porridge
was to be laced with gin or
whisky, as was his tea, his coffee
and his soup. His eggs were to
be fried in whisky. “At the
end of a week,” said the book,
“Where'd you get this sex-equality stuff?”
“the former drunkard will recoil
violently from what used to be
his favorite potation. He will
be cured.”
The book did not seem to
envisage the possibility that the
drinker might merely switch his
allegiance to some other pota-
tion, or leave home and eat
somewhere else, or even just
give up eating. Nor do I know
if my grandmother tried the
scheme out. The favorite pota-
tion of the member of the
family she wanted to cure was
methylated-spirit.
However, what I’m getting at
is that TV may in like fashion
so glut its viewers with spoon-
fed entertainment that in self-
defence they turn to something-
more active as an emotional foil.
Mr. Alistair Cooke once
described radio as “audible wall-
paper.” TV, of course, exercises
a much more powerful grip on
the eyeballs than does a radio-
set on the ears. But not all
forms of entertainment pass
through a cathode-ray tube with
equal success. I ask about this.
“The simpler themes, emo-
tions and plots are best,” says
Miss Kinane. “Though,” she
adds, “Shakspeare is an excep-
tion-; He comes through well
on TV.”
At this point Mr. MacCallum
intervenes. He has, he says,
seen Shakspeare badly on
TV.”
Miss Kinane sticks to her
guns. “Lear, for instance: that
seemed to gain even more
power on TV . . . the tiny figure
on the moor . . . highlights the
enormity of the tragedy.”
I haven’t seen Shakspeare on
TV, so can’t take part in the
short, good-tempered argument
which follows. But Ido venture
to wonder “whether, the. more
melodramatic forms of stage-
acting are not particularly out
of place on TV?”
Both agree to this. In fact,
sweeping gestures are more than
out of place: the screen is so
small that an actor who delivers
himself of a sweeping gesture
will, as likely as not, sweep right
out of sight!
It is time to go back in. We
find the cameraman anxiously
pointing the camera at a small
chart covered with a geometric
pattern in sundry shades of grey.
With this, he is testing the sharp-
ness of the image coming
through on the screen.
On TV, black is not black and
white is not white; nearest
approaches are very dark grey
and very light grey. These are
called “TV-black” and “TV-
white.” The image of the chart
comes through with a fine show
of realism on the TV-screen, but
Mr. Watt looks pessimistically
at it.
“When you consider the
number of people who habitu-
ally tune their radios slightly off
the station rather than bother to
lower the volume-control,” he
says, “you can imagine there’ll
be a lot of TV-sets never tuned
with sufficient care to get a
sharp image like that.” . . .
The cameraman has walked
away from his camera, but evi-
dently the chap in the control-
room isn’t satisfied with some-
thing. The TV-camera becomes
suddenly imbued with a life of
its own. Its red .eye winks
rhythmically and it makes a
clicking noise, soft but insistent.
Just as though it were a tele-
phone, the operator hurries to
answer it. Cameramen are not
only equipped with earphones,
through which directions may
be relayed to them without dis-
turbing the show, they also have
a mouthpiece to mutter back
through.
The operator puts on his ear-
phones, mutters to the control-
room, and makes the required
adjustment.
Meanwhile, a man with an
anxious look fiddles with the
curtains at the rear of the set.
Mr. MacCallum draws my atten-
tion to the frame which carries
about half-a-dozen curtains of
contrasting patterns and textures.
“The frame is our own
design,” he says. “Saves a lot
of time when all your curtains
hang from one rack. And the
rack itself is mobile. We’ve got
everything on wheels —even the
switchboard!
“Picking materials for cur-
tains in a TV-show, that’s a
great worry. You can never
tell just how something’s going
to look. Best way of judging a
material is to squint at it
through your eyelashes. That
gives you a pretty good idea of
how the pattern and texture will
come through. But you can
never tell quite what a color
will do. We were very worried
about those two shades of green
there. They turned out all
right, though.”
A card with a drawing in
green ink of a large mosquito
confronting a small rabbit is
now placed in front of the
camera. For the next test, a
young man is to deliver a short
talk on the spreading of myxo-
matosis among rabbits per
mosquito.
An ethereal squeak of a tune
comes over the sound-system—
the mosquito’s theme-song.
“I am here to tell you the
story of a mosquito,” says the
young man . . .
But at this point the techni-
cians interrupt and make him
begin again. This happens
several times and, by the time
he repeats his announcement for
the fourth time, a note of des-
peration enters the proceedings.
Only the mosquito-tune retains
its imbecilic gaiety. I begin to
see why TV is the most nerve-
wracking medium ever invented
for those on the business-end
of it.
Finally, they let him get on
with it. He tells how, in Can-
berra, in order to study the
habits of the mosquito, they
built an insectorium: a gauze
enclosure 15ft. high. Note the
height.
Unfortunately, mosquitoes
mate on the wing and, as they
consummate their passion, fall a
distance of about 25ft. The
ceiling of the enclosure was too
low. After about three days
the authorities found the cage
held only a number of females
buzzing angrily, while the floor
was strewn with dead males.
I suppose whoever was re-
sponsible might be forgiven for
failing to realise that so small an
insect requires so much space
for the connubial act. “Any-
how,” the lecturer ended, “they
rebuilt the cage thirty-feet high,
thus allowing five-feet head-
room.”


Available from all booksellers
JUSTIN BAYARD by JON CLEARY
The Australian author of The Climate of Courage has set his new
novel in a remote cattle station in the Australian bush. Here is played
out an exciting human drama, taut with atmosphere and suspense.
16s. Od.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
THE FLOWER PAINTINGS OF
ALBERT SHERMAN
foreword by Howard Ashton. The
finest examples of the work of Aus-
tralia’s foremost painter of flowers are
reproduced in this handsomely bound
volume. There are 18 lovely full
colour reproductions. Limited edition
of 1000 copies. £4/4/- (post 9d.)
PORTRAIT WITH BACKGROUND
by Alexandra Hasluck. The story of
Georgiana Molloy, who, with her hus-
band, Captain Molloy, was one of the
settlers of Augusta in Western Aus-
tralia. It is a portrait of a remark-
able woman, and an authentic picture
of early Australian settlement. Illus.
42/ - (post 9d.)
You’ll find these, and all the books you want at , .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON L
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. : r 66-68 Elizabeth Si
*v.. .v- V , ’>'■ - v ;' • - ■: ••• 7> ! .
of the gold-export-duty was un-
doubtedly the man for the times as
he reached his fortieth year/replaced
his mutton-chop whiskers with a beard
and reached the summit of his physical
strength, which he once demonstrated
by carrying a 20-stone Maori chief-
witness before an inquiry commission
—the whole length of a corridor in the
Parliament buildings. His oratory con-
tinued to be an ungrammatical torrent;
his voice defied attempts to shout him
down; copious draughts at bar after
bar only made him roar the louder and
the longer. He proved himself in-
destructible and impregnable, his
memory for faces and domestic facts
inexhaustible, his geniality to the right
people almost as daunting as his blasts
against those who attempted to thwart
him.
It is a staggering fact that the bright
theoristic, young neophytes of Liberal-
ism who read Henry George and John
Stuart Mill—William Peember Reeves,
Joseph Ward and the irrepressible
Jimmy Carroll—who minced into the
Tenth Parliament, heralds of a new
era, should have been born to become
his confederates and followers. But in
the decade of turmoil during which
Chinese labor, gold-duties, free-trade
and the rise of the trade-unions
marked the advance of civilisation into
Maoriland, strange bedfellows began
to doss together in the most remark-
able surroundings.
Entering on his campaigns “like
some Cherokee Indian on a scalping
expedition” as he rode his hairy-heeled
nag into the muddy-tracked fastnesses
of the Far South, Seddon at length, at
46, found himself Minister for Public
Works in the Ballance Ministry of
1891 among the colleagues who were
to form his general staff for most of
his career. After that everything con-
nected with Cabinet became more con-
vivial and government travelled with
the noise of a hurricane and the clatter
of an earthquake. Within two years
he was Premier. He survived the pro-
hibition fights and the women’s suffrage
fights, the charges of graft and impro-
priety, overt and otherwise, as he sur-
vived everything else. He left the plan-
ning of legislation to others and de-
voted himself to the warfare of party.
He steered his way past the perils con-
cocted by hostile Legislative Councils
—councils so balanced in the late
’nineties that it was safer to bet on
racehorses than on whether the Upper
House would or would not pass any
given Bill. He crushed the life out of
the brasher portion of the civil-service
bureaucracy in the interests of political
preferment, showing a preference in
public appointment to the “right color”
which sometimes caused anguished out-
cries in which the words “graft and
jobbery” were natural ingredients.
Through turmoil and scandal he sur-
vived as Premier for 13 years, becom-
ing a “one-man Cabinet,” the apparent
—if not the true —father of old-age
pensions and “social reform” and of
the solution of the Maori land-question.
England saw him on his first return
thither in the guise of a bulky
imperialist in Windsor uniform who
had two Royal carriages at his disposal
and who visited Gladstone at Hawarden
and was made a Doctor of Laws,
honoris causa, by Cambridge Uni-
versity. It found his oratory “loud-
voiced, strong-phrased, picturesque,
even a little blatant too tempestu-
ous and too loud in key.” But he made
a triumphant tour after the Diamond
Jubilee as he raged full-throated
through his native land, returning a
Privy Councillor to the task of turning
his adopted country into a Dominion
following a rumbustious support of
the South African war and a strange
abortive campaign to suck all the
islands out to Samoa, Tonga and Fiji
into the maw of a new-born New
Zealand imperialism.
He was, in fact, by the onset of the
20th century, showing a disposition to
run not only New Zealand but the
world at large and its issues of peace
and war. This tendency was much mani-
fest on his second world journey in
his later guise of “King Dick” to the
coronation of Edward VII, with a call
at the Cape to settle the problems of
South Africa and win the derisive
attention of “Punch” en route.
In his last days he was a law to
himself, obstinate, eschewing all the
canons of ordinary political morality,
not to mention those of punctilio. He
outlived Maoriland’s pristine age of
building and reform, during which he
rose to power and projected his per-
sonality into an era when a new new-
Liberalism was taking the place of the
old new-Liberalism of his early days.
His last election campaign, beset
by the ghost of scandal, at the end of
1905 was as noisy and tumultuous as
his first. It was one during which, the
Opposition reported, “Mr. Seddon may
be said to have addressed a huge and
mixed meeting by sheer force of lung-
power, with the assistance of the
police.” But having won the father of
all victories, and completely devastated
opposing parties, including Labor,
he collapsed under the strain of con-
tinuing to do the work of his whole
Cabinet.
While returning in the Oswestry
Grange from a visit to Australia in
1906 in his 61st year he suddenly re-
marked before dinner: “I wish I was
back in Wellington and could go for
a ride.” And then, resting his head on
his wife’s shoulder and clutching his
breast over his heart, he died.
He died probably just in time. He
had two years before told the natives
of Wanganui that, as head of the State,
he was “a fixture like Mounts Egmont
or Ruapehu.” Had he essayed another
election he probably would have
learned the same lesson as Governor
Bligh, whose jeering boast that he was
“irremovable as Mt. Ararat” was
swiftly followed by the nemesis of
rebellion.
Mr. Burdon’s book makes admir-
able and colorful reading. It ranks
at the top among antipodean political
biographies.
Poems by Max Harris
After ten years of apparently silent
meditation Max Harris has reappeared
on the Australian literary scene with
The Coorong (Mary Martin Bookshop,
Adelaide) a small book of poems con-
siderably clearer than much of his
earlier writings and with a certain
gritty strength about it.
The Coorong, Mr. Harris explains,
is a salt lake cut off from the sea by
dunes of loose sand, and upon these
dunes grows “coarse vegetation”—
which aptly describes these poems.
They are sandy because of some feel-
ing of doubt and disillusion underlying
them; they are coarse because only
very rarely (as in the lyrical “Happi-
ness” or the moving, bitter little elegy
for “Dead Friends”) does Mr. Harris
care for musical technique, mostly be-
ing content to chip out compact little
chunks of rock, a rather too prosaic
poetry; and they are a living vegeta-
tion because the writer has been
observing Australian scenes and
people, whether in the country or the
city, with a candid and exact personal
vision.
Thus in “Incident at the Alice,” a
subdued, dusty and strongly realistic
picture of a pub and a perish,
Alec Drage moves like a six foot
eagle
Above the browsing bull-ants on the
’drome,
Never looks up, lets his leather
fingers
Be bitten, then crushes them
lovingly;
and in a city pub, remotely echoing
Slessor,
My friends are borne to one another
By their lack of something to say;
The weight of inward thought is
lifted
And they float to each other
Like paper darts: they offer salt of
themselves
Arab-like in hotels,
Humbler than they would have you
believe.
With a few elusive trifles, some love-
lyrics, some literary poems on Piers
Plowman and Goncharov’s dusty and
delightful “Oblomov,” and the sequence
from Alice Springs outstanding, the
collection is slight on the whole, and
one would be glad to see Mr. Harris’s
“sandy idiom” refreshed with a shower
of rain and rhyme.
Wildflowers
Thank you for your very kindly
review of my book Native Australian
Plants.
Of course, your reviewer exaggerates
when he says that the seeds of Sturt’s
desert-pea and its cousins should be
“boiled” to assist in germination. This
would destroy the seed and in case any-
body is misled perhaps it should be
stated that these seeds germinate best
by soaking in boiling water.
A. M. Blombery.
The Long Hop: Margaret Hughes
(Stanley Paul). Margaret Hughes not
only essays to write on cricket but does
it well enough; her book is no more
unreadable than most cricket-books.
She covers well-trodden ground (the
last Test-series in Australia), but can
get away from the beaten track. There
is sound and sensible criticism on the
game, and the droll “Alice in Aus-
tralia” which concludes the book is
worth a rereading. Aside from cricket,
there is some piquant comment on Aus-
tralia and Australians, facets of our
way of life not always strictly recognis-
able (somewhat unrecognisable, too,
the exotically spelt Martyn-place, Mac-
Quarie-street, Gaba ground, etc.). And
a “Bulletin” reviewer can’t just pass
over the writer’s claim that “There are
no national newspapers; there is not
even a national magazine such as
‘Life’....”!
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 364
Across
I—Where jurymen work the results
of dirty football. (8)
s—lt’s all Greek for 1-down and
2-down. (6)
9—Her turned timber is old stuff
served again. (8)
10 and 28 —The “Mikado” has this
protest with the lot under citrus.
(6,3,7)
12—Puts out the little island girls.
(6)
14 — European obtained with aspira-
tion. (4)
15— Australian college spirit. (6)
19— Rational essay by direction. (4)
20 — Corrosion and I whip the editor
which has lived like a peasant.
(10)
25—French moved a bird. (3)
27 Dix travels abroad. (3)
28— See 10-across.
31—The current I had is sour. (4)
34—Arm hit for the Persian sun-god.
(6)
36 Bay bloke. (4)
37 Neglectful about a single
character. (6)
40— Shade ranked in another way. (6)
41— Antiquity darts back to sit across
a violin with pence and the
French. (8)
42 — Ben after paintings wherein the
Camelot king is the subject. (6)
43 Nonsense binder to ring 50. (8)
Down
I—Eye doctor that is a steamer
author. (7)
2—Policemen set over half the
cricket field by the Test captain.
(7)
3 Yokel who is knocked about by
Curtis. (6)
4 Levels the level heart on Nova
Scotia. (5)
6 Eyes Bros* are much disturbed.
(4)
7 A cob tie in craft for the frigid
zone. (7)
8— Not the beginning of 32-down is
scored. (7)
11—Mercury rises for this race
division. (4)
13 —Brush out of this vegetation. (5)
16 — Five score the lot and cry out.
(4)
17— Where to drive off the Maori
Esmond. (4)
18— Successful service. (3)
21 — Sport at St. Mortiz. (3)
22 The programme material it
measures for the printer. (5)
23 A preposition goddess of war in
Syrian-Canaanite tradition. (4)
24 Mire swallows up this potentate.
(4)
26—The silent keep this progenitor.
(3)
28 — Heel interrupting an operatic
song in a pastoral wonderland.
(7)
29 — The Maori spree upset the young
hare. (7)
30 —Grounds for Robert, Nancy,
Dixie, etc. (4)
32 Ibsen heroine swallowed by
Councillor Cheese. (7)
33 Linda to mend a measure. (7)
35—Linda’s modified inch. (6)
38— Won’t I change when no longer
whole? (2,3)
39 — Republic by a horseshoe. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 363


ii* 12 »
rrt
' * V'
..if,
•+**> w
■«-- * -
‘ ’ ~ *
j^y
Sry^
*r«r*.»*
:■ T T.p— r
.-. .*•••■»
, r
kp^.. iSi
w/ir
il'..- . -4*.
■■l
*l.
v '" /
II
m
*4*
\\7 t
, ■"
■..-■■■
BfT2
X'j!
3fe
sfi
*/■
The Hole in the Sand
Wr
\
9
M"‘X.
Beyond the dunes the long white line of breakers curled
over lazily in a shining curve of translucent green, broke,
and rushed towards the beach in a smother of foam. Way
out where the deep blue water touched the sky, a coastal
steamer strained against a leash of thin, black smoke
stretched tautly astern.
There was a sudden roar of a disel engine and we turned
from the sea and looked down into the hole that had been
torn in the white sand. The tractor roared again and moved
forward, tracks almost submerged, a huge pile of sodden
grey sand tumbling ahead of the bulldozer blade.
“The drag-line picks it up,” the foreman explained, “then
it’s carted up to the plant for processing. That’s a Cater-
pillar D 7 Tractor, incidentally, with a Caterpillar 7A bull-
dozer blade and No. 24 cable control. Works like a tiger!”
Back went the yellow machine, steel tracks churning the
water. Down went the blade, bit deep, then with another
burst of deep-throated power, the tracks moved and the
great pile of black sand tumbled forward towards the shore.
“Rutile and zircon,” shouted the foreman above the diesel
engine’s throb, “that’s what’s in that black sand. I’ll show
you the plant back on the headland afterwards. We separate
the minerals mechanically on vibrating tables. The stuff is
drained, dried and electrostatically cleaned.”
“There’s a big market for rutile and zircon now,” he con-
tinued in a normal voice, as the operator cut the throttle.
“What is rutile? Well, it’s an ore titanium dioxide
that contains about 60% titanium. Titanium is a light
metal, corrosion-resistant. One of its uses is as an alloy—
they used it during the war as a substitute for manganese.”
“Zircon? Used in the porcelain industry, among others.
It’s a semi-precious stone, too, of course. Looks like a
diamond but I don’t think you’d fool your fiancee with
it,” he added, with a smile.
★ ★ ★
Stretching from Swansea, New South Wales, right along the
eastern coast to Stradbroke Island, Queensland, are rich
areas of mineral sand containing rutile and zircon com-
mercially important minerals used in the manufacture of
paint, varnishes, lacquers, paper, rubber, plastics, textiles,
floor coverings, ceramics. Rutile mixtures are also used to
coat rods for electric welding
The recent world scarcity of rutile has resulted in a boom
for beach mining companies. Cudgen R.Z., operating at
Cudgen Headland, five miles south of the Queensland
border, is producing rutile and zircon mined from the
mineral sands on the beach and dunes.
Doing the hard, slogging work in the open cut is the Com-
pany’s Caterpillar D 7 Tractor . . . sheer brute force tearing
the rich black sands from the beds. Sixteen hours a day
it works, down in the water in the hole, shifting a thousand
yards of mineral sand a day, helping Cudgen R.Z. to
develop a young industry with important national sig-
nificance, and earn much-needed dollars for Australia.
CATERPILLAR
Reqiitcred Trad* Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING—QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD., BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO. LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DEERING (N.T.) PTY.
LIMITED, ALICE SPRINGS & DARWIN.
NEW GUINEA: HASTINGS DEERING (NEW
GUINEA) PTY. LIMITED, LAE.
