

/
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
CAPTAIN COOK'S OWN STORY: M. H. Ellis
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3977
Wednesday, May 2, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 296: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
LONDON'S HAYMARKET THEATRE KNOWN THE WORLD OVER
3 are no fewer than fifty theatres in central London alone, and they
L usually maintain a tradition as to the type of production staged,
rury Lane, Her Majesty’s, the Stoll, the Adelphi and the Coliseum present
elaborate musicals. The Palace, Princes and Saville are chiefly devoted to
musical comedy and operetta; the Comedy, Whitehall, Garrick and Criterion
specialise in farces; the Old Vic is the chief home of Shakespeare; the Globe,
Lyric. Apollo and Haymarket show straight plays and comedies.
The Haymarket Theatre, a few yards from Piccadilly Circus, and illustrated
here, was built by Nash in 1821. This famous theatre, with its graceful
colonnaded entrance, replaced an earlier theatre on the adjoining site,
known as the Little Theatre. It was in this building that the novelist Henry
Fielding produced satirical plays which caused the Government of the day to
pass the Licensing Act of 1737, requiring all plays to be submitted to the
Lord Chamberlain before their first public performances, and this Act is still
in force today.
In the 18th century a famous manager of the Little Theatre was Samuel
Foote, who, in the year 1749, engaged a conjuror who claimed that he could
enter a quart bottle and while in that restricted position would sing a song.
ITiis was widely advertised and on the first night the theatre was filled with an
expectant audience. However, when Foote announced from the stage that
the conjuror was unable to appear but would enter a pint and sing
two songs therefrom on the following night, the audience rose in anger, and,
led by the Duke of Cumberland with a drawn sword, they stormed the stage
and wrecked the theatre. During the engagement the Duke lost his sword,
which was not surprising, since it had a diamond hilt.
The Haymarket Theatre now has a reputation for polite comedy and is
associated with such famous personalities as Cyril Maude, Sir Squire and
Lady Bancroft and Beerbohm Tree, who, as Svengali in De Maurier’s Trilby,
gave there one of his finest performances. One of the dressing-rooms of the
theatre is reputed to be haunted by an actor-manager named Buckstone, who;
it is said, still opens, shuts and slams doors and drawers.


Learn
Story Writ™
If you have the urge to write and the
express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTI & can train you to write- Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
f JF m writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £2OO ”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lOO/10/9.” 6
“I have had three articles accepted bv 31,0
and broadcast by the A.8.C.” *
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almosf
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in, the ‘Sun’ last week.” r
100 Bussell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St,, Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B, 956) AGE
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for rea'ders. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
ceesful.
The Red Page
THERE ALWAYS WAS AN ENGLAND
Two books arrived at the same time
from Longmans covering the same
scene: Strange Island, Britain Through
Foreign Eyes, 1395-1940, compiled and
edited by Francesca M. Wilson; and
Studies in Social History, a Tribute to
G. M. Trevelyan, edited by J. H.
Plumb.
Miss-Wilson’s book is a kaleidoscope
of Britain taken from the letters and
books of travellers, authors and
Ambassadors from Froissart (1395) to
Maillaud (1940). \Vhen they generalise,
as they do considerably in the earlier
years, they are tedious; as, for instance,
in Pedro de Ayala’s report of 1498 on
Scotland: —
The women are courteous in the
extreme. I mention this because
they are really honest, though very
bold. They are absolute mistresses
of their houses..
But what delight there is in a distaste-
ful report by Busino of the Venetian
Embassy on a masque at the court of
James I, and the junketing that
followed it:—
The King now rose from his chair,
took the Ambassadors along with
him, and after passing through a
number of chambers and galleries he
reached a hall where the usual colla-
tion was spread for the performers
[who included the young Prince, later
Charles I, and Buckingham], a light
being carried before him. After he
had glanced all round the table he
departed, and forthwith the parties
concerned pounced upon the prey
like so many harpies. The table was
covered almost entirely with seasoned
pasties and very few sugared confec-
tions. There were some large figures,
but they were of painted pasteboard
for ornament. The repast was served
upon glass plates or dishes, and at
the first assault they upset the table
and the crash of glass platters
reminded me precisely of a severe
hailstorm at midsummer smashing
the window glass. The story ended at
half-past two in the morning, and
half-disgusted and weary we returned
home.
Travellers rarely see the whole pic-
ture. Through the centuries they write,
and sometimes complain, of the attacks
by London street- and theatre-women
upon their virtue, but that is hardly to
know Englishwomen. Stendhal, par-
ticular in his tastes, writes exquisitely
of two sisters, procured for him by his
valet in a little house in a decayed
suburb, and of the, to them, almost
unbelievable champagne-suppers to
which he treated them; Casanova wit-
nessed the sale of invitations to great
society-functions; another, hearing that
beautiful girls were on the bill-of-fare
at a London inn, demanded to be shown
some, and turned-down several strap-
ping wenches before he discovered that
he was probably having his leg pulled
—although in the 18th century, says De
Saussure, coffee-houses that were also
“temples of Venus” were designated
by “a woman’s hand or arm holding a
coffee-pot.”
One of the few of these travellers to
get into the heart of English life was
Chateaubriand, sheltering, with only 40
crowns, from the French Revolution—
and he, characteristically enough,
painted the English rose a vivid purple.
Falling from his horse in Bungay, he
was looked after by the studious Rev.
Mr. Ives, whose accomplished daughter
fell in love with him. After dinner, on
the eve of his departure, he was left
alone with Mrs. Ives, who announced
her daughter’s affection for him, and
offered him Miss Ives’s hand in
marriage, and the inheritance of their
property:—
Of ail the sorrows I had under-
gone, this was the sorest and greatest.
I threw myself at Mrs. Ives’s feet;
I covered her hands with my kisses
and my tears. She thought I was
weeping with happiness and herself
began to sob for joy. She stretched
out her arm to pull the bell-rope;
she called her husband and daughter:
“Stop!” I cried. “I’m a married
man! ”
She fell back fainting.
Here, again, there is an exotic flavor:
how many such lovely English girls of
property would be offered to penniless
young men, especially Englishmen, on
a plate? In the same way, one may
raise an eyebrow at Misson de Val-
bourg’s note of 1690 on the love
Englishmen have for being hanged:—
The English are people that laugh
at the delicacy of other nations, who
make it such a mighty matter to be
hanged ; their extraordinary courage
looks upon it as a trifle He that
is to be hanged, or otherwise exe-
cuted, first takes care to get himself
shaved and handsomely drest, either
in mourning or in the dress of a
bridegroom. This done, he sets his
friends at work to get him leave to
be buried, and to carry his coffin
with him, which is easily obtained.
When his suit of cloaths, or night-
gown, his gloves, hat, perriwig,
nosegay, coffin, flannel-dress for his
corpse, and all things are brought
and prepared, the main point is taken
care of, his mind is at peace. 1..
sometimes the girls dress in white,
with great silk scarves, and carry
baskets full of flowers and oranges,
scattering favors all the way as they
go.
But maybe he is more right, and
certainly very interesting, on an age-
old English custom:—
11 two little boys quarrel in the
street the passengers stop, make a
ring round them in a moment, and
set them one against another, that
they may come to fisticuffs If a
coachman has a dispute about his
fare with a gentleman that has hired
him, and the gentleman offers to
fight him. to decide the quarrel, the
coachman consents with all his heart
.... If the coachman gets soundly
drubbed, which happens almost
always, that goes for payment....
They use neither sword nor stick
against a man that is unarmed, and
if an unfortunate stranger should
draw his sword upon one that had
none he’d have a hundred people
upon him in a moment.
Writing about the same time,
Jorevin de Rochefort throws light upon
a line of Jonson’s, “Leave but a kiss
within the cup, and I’ll not ask for
wine”:—
But what is to me the more disgust-
ing in all this is, that when one
drinks the health of any person in
company, the custom of the country
does not permit you to drink more
than half the cup, which is filled up
and presented to him or her whose
health you have drunk.
Tajking of drinking, tea-parties were
on the grand scale in 1750, says
Madame du Bocage:—
We breakfasted today at Lady
Montague’s, in a closet lined with
painted paper of Pekin and furnished
with the choicest moveables of
China. A long table covered with
the finest linen, presented to the view
a thousand glittering cups, which
contained coffee, chocolate, biscuits,
cream, butter, toast and exquisite
tea.... The Mistress of the house
.... poured it out herself; this is
the custom, and in order to conform
to it, the dress of the English ladies
exactly suits the occasion—the white
apron and the pretty straw hat
become them with the greatest
propriety.
Pastor Moritz relates how, in 1782,
not being able to find an inn to take
him when on the way to Oxford, he
walked there at night with a gentle-
man who took him to an inn called The
Mitre at midnight, where he found “a
great number of clergymen, all with
their gowns and bands on, sitting round
a large table, each with a pot of beer
before him”; and Voltaire writes of
apprentices staging horseraces and foot-
races on the banks of the Thames—
nor are the observations of Marx,
Trotsky and Dostoievsky neglected in
this excellent bedside-book.
Marxian economic theory has pro-
duced a view of history which runs
parallel with the modern interest in
“social”-history, but the Marxian
explanation of history by purely
economic factors must seem incom-
plete beside the new English school
of social-history begun by G. M.
Trevelyan, to whom J. H. Plumb has
dedicated the “Studies” which he has
collected for Dr. Trevelyan’s 80th
birthday.
These observations of English life
are not the casual notes of foreigners
but the results of profound researches
by a set of English scholars who know
exactly what they are looking for; one
or two of them minor masterpieces.
That on “The Intellectual Aristo-
cracy,” by N. G. Annan, for instance,
brings the reader awake, with some-
thing of a shock, to the fact that Eng-
land is still being governed by an
aristocracy—one peculiar to our age—
of talent.
Family-tree by family-tree he demon-
strates that the Government servants,
philosophers, scientists, novelists,
economists, etc., who really govern
England, and have been making
English opinion for almost a hundred
years, can be grouped into a few great
families, most of them linked by inter-
marriages. Dr. G. M. Trevelyan,
0.M., to whom the book is dedicated,
is married through the Humphrey
Wards into the Arnold family, from
which Aldous and Julian Huxley are
descended; Lord Keynes was only one
of a brilliant scholastic family linked
lately with the Darwins; R. A. Butler,
Chancellor of the Exchequer, is married
to a Courtauld and is only one of a
whole family of Governors of Burma,
heads of university colleges and public
schools related to the Darwins and the
publishing-Fabers. One may well be
bewildered by the recurrent chiming of
Macaulays, Wedgwoods, Babingtons,
Vaughans, and the recital of high public
offices and university-appointments, but
not by the conclusion:-
Here is an aristocracy, secure,
established and, like the rest of
English society, accustomed to
responsible and judicious utterance
and sceptical of iconoclastic specula-
tion.
Another of these studies that seems
remarkably interesting is the story of
how Daniel Finch. Second Earl
of Nottingham, resigned as Secretary of
State in 1693 and set about building a
mansion on the estate of
1694. H. J. Habakkuk has gone into
all the details of this job; how prob-
ably his Lordship designed the huge
place himself; who his overseers were;
even who the masons were and where
they came from; how the Earl decided
on brick linings because stone would
have been cold and clammy for several
years after erection. Then he discusses
the delicate matter of how the cost of
the mansion, about £30,000, could be
balanced against his Lordship’s income
as Secretary of State. His salary, mem-
bers of Parliament may be interested
to notice, was £lOO a year. Then he
had an “allowance” of £lB5O a year.
But his best source of income during
the years 1689 to 1693 was “Secret
Service,” £16,000.
Following the Earl through the
mortgages, etc., by which he kept him-
self afloat, Mr. Habakkuk then con-
siders his household-accounts, and the
means by which he financed the dowries
of his daughters—his eldest daughter
got £2o,ooo—and a £3OOO Grand Tour
of Europe for his eldest son.
In the same solid way, the editor,
J. H. Plumb, considers Sir Robert
Walpole, the Prime Minister, and his
father, the Colonel. The Prime
Minister, Mr. Plumb points out. was the
last king’s-favorite, the last really to
make money out of office; and he cer-
tainly needed it. He had “an excellent
taste in claret”; he had several wine-
merchants, and in 1733 bought from
one alone £lllB-worth, returning 540-
dozen empty bottles within the year.
He bought 1001 b. of chocolates at a
time—£l7 2s. 3d.:—
Between August, 1714, and May,
1718, £152,251 17s. Bd. passed
through his account with Robert
Mann ; of this £61,778 14s. 9d. was
spent on investments, the rest went
in personal expenditure.
Jn “Comedy in the Reign of Charles
1.” C. V. Wedgwood brings to light
the neglected plays of the Court-writers
like Shirley, not for their literary or
dramatic quality, but because
they fix the vivid ephemeral details
of that time, the ordinary pleasures
.... the holiday expeditions to “the
city outleaps,” Islington, Newington,
Paddington, Kensington, to eat
prunes and cream ; the busy bustle
of Hyde Park on a summer after-
noon with a milkmaid leading round
her red cow to offer drinks to the
ladies, and the gentlemen sending
their pages to “Grave Maurice’s
Head” for ale ; the “booths and bag-
pipes upon Banstead downs”
the “handbarrows, what you call
’em? —sedans.”
There are eight of these studies in all.
A. L. Rowse writes on Nicholas
Roscarroek. who escaped execution as
a Catholic and wrote a “Lives of the
Saints W. G. Hoskins rediscovers
“An Elizabethan Provincial Town” in
Leicester —its shops, houses, men. in-
dustries, prices, wages and ups-and-
downs; and G. S. R. Kitson Clark
discusses “The Romantic Element,
1830-1850.”
MYTH
The child ran to find the bird,
light and fire, water, air:
with weeds and shells and sullen fish,
the bird that grew inside her wish:
singing “Here, O here, come here."
The garden opened like a room:
she ran through halls of flowers, wings;
the fountain splashed the weeds, the fish:
“Here, O here; it’s here it sings.”
And see the pond fulfils a sky,
the water opens like a door:
a water snail has no horn.
The light is black and slightly torn.
O hear the bird: it sings once more.
And then the water shut on her
and raped her mind while fish and weeds
struggled in her party frock.
Her bangle broke its colored beads.
Above, the trees sang loud with birds,
the light was bruised, the garden torn;
below, the fish swam on and on.
She floated on the water, born
into a fierce and dying swan.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
New Children's Classic?
Fairies, it must be admitted, are a
bore. Nevertheless, fantasy is one of
the eternal categories of delight; and
to the writer who can invent a new
kind of fairy, something fresh, vital
and a convincing emanation from the
earth—whether it is the White Rabbit.
Eeyore, Toad, the Pushmi-pullyu, or
that snooting, snouting scoundrel the
Possum—generations of children, and
adults who may have to read to them,
will always be grateful.
And for that reason, because she
has invented a new, convincing and
thoroughly earthy kind of fairy, special
notice should be given, even if a little
belatedly, to Mary Norton’s The
Borrowers Afield (Dent).
Miss Norton’s “borrowers” are the
small people, about the size of mice,
who live under the floor-boards and
steal the things that are continually
('Continued on page 35)


Jamec all purpose power tool
Jamec tools have been scientifically designed to do production
work. In kit form, when you assemble a tool you convert the power
unit into a complete individual tool that will operate efficiently
at its correct speed and power to do the job. You can buy any
individual tool and they can be converted into any of the other
tools illustrated by purchasing extra workheads and accessories at
a minimum cost. Jin. Power Unit with all accessories except
550 G, packed in portable steel chest. Priced at £96/10/-.
Available in 110 volt, 50 volt, 32 volt and 12 volt at 52/- extra.
At right. Power unit No. 550 D. Jin. H.D. Drill, 2,400 R.P.M., 500 watts. Priced at £26/-/-.
Post orders to Box 2712 9 G.P.0., Sydney.
warn
mm-
g - 5
K ■
Right-angle Drills, 1,200
R.P.M. No. 556, H.D.,
£4O/18/6. No. 557, L.D.,
£4l/13/6. Attach.,£l4/18/6.
No. 550 W. 4in. Wire
Brush, 2,400 R. P. M.,
£33/2/6. Attach., £B/18/6.
Brush, 18/6 extra.
No. 550P.5. 7irt. Polisher,
1,200 R.P.M. 7in. Sander,
3,600 R.P.M., £4l/7/-.
Attachment only £lB/14/6.
No. 553 D. i inch H.D.
Drill, 360 R.P.M. Priced
at £39/12/6. Attachment
priced at only £l6/-/-.
No. 550 G. 15,000 R.P.M.,
2in. Grindar, £25/10/-
55 O.H.V. H.S. Valve Seat
Hone Drive, £25/10/-.
No. 558. 16 gauge Metal
Shear, £37/10/-. Drill stand
£l3/7/2. Bench Clamp
£5/9/8. Attach., £l3/18/6.
American
Art
Exhibition.
See the exhibition of
“Highlights of Ameri-
can Painting,” a superb
collection of repro-
ductions of American
Fine Art by famous
artists. From now to
May sth in Anthony
Horderns’ Galleries,
4th Floor.
Plenty of
Bottle Beer.
Having a party? Going
to a Ball? Anthony
Horderns’ liquor
Dept, can supply all
your requirements.
Plenty of Bottled
Beer. Daily delivery
in the Metropolitan
Area.
Down Quilts
Remade.
Anthony Horderns’
will remake your old
down quilts to look
like new. We are quilt
specialists and all
quilts are remade by
quilt experts in our
own factory. Only the
best quality materials
are used for the cover-
ings. Please write for
quotations before the
cold weather arrives.
W:i m
1
I
:i§.
Swedish "Motorborr” Reek Driller
Built-in petrol motor .
Made in Sweden and used in every country in the world. Ideal for
Builders, Plumbers, Drainers and Farmers etc., the “Motorborr” Rock-
drilling machine is priced at £295/-/-. Drill Grinding attachment is
priced at £55/-/-. Drill sizes: 16in. at £6/1/-, 32in. at £6/8/6, 48in. at
£6/13/6, 64in. at £6/18/6, 80in. at £7/2/9, lOOin. at £7/15/-, 120 in. at
£B/4/-, 140 in. at £B/12/-, 160 in. at £B/18/- each. “Star” attachment for
steel fence post drilling, 4/6 each. No. 800 Pointed Pick Chisel, priced
at £2/5/-. No. 801 flat poll pick, priced at £3/-/-.
Daiarni "Tornado,” world’s fastest saw
We stock the largest range of Chain Saws in Australia
including the famous Danarm Tornado one man
petrol driven Chain Saw. These have a 22in. cutter
blade complete with 2 cutting chains
and tool kit. Priced at £175/10/-.
3ft. 3in., £255. 350 CC. Motor and
4ft. lin., £275. 350 CC. Motor.
v *r-
■<
c* t :r,
a*
r.
Mnlti- purpose "Bine Streak Minor”
X
' 11
-tc
\ J
l m
£
,mW:
**' Wt Ud/ ''‘-V—. *
!U-‘
IM
£D
k
L
A
Ay^ 1
“Blue Streak” Chain Saw —“Minor”
model, £175/-/-. Post Hole Auger
Bores 11 in. hole, £BO. Flexible Drive
Drill, |in. to hole, £5B/15/-.
Tool Grinding Head, £l4/10/-.
“Minor” Posthole Auger with en-
gine less chain saw attachment
priced at £220/5/-. “Major” model
chain saws. Petrol 48in., £298/10/-;
60 inch, £305; 72in., £312/15/-.


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3977
Wednesday, May 2, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
- H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE KISS OF DEATH
ONE feature of Communist life has not changed in
a changing world. The May Day ceremonies are
normal, but a little noisier than usual. In Aus-
tralia there’s an innovation—Communist Chinese
trade-union officials have arrived to join the local
Communists in their jamboree. They were met
by Comrade Ernie Thornton, who fled to China a
few years ago instead of remaining to defend him-
self on a charge of having been associated with
wholesale forgery of ballot-papers to assure
Communist control of the Federated Ironworkers.
For a few years Thornton was associated with
Communist work in Peking, where visiting Aus-
tralians noted with admiration his commissar’s
black car and his privileges. He has recently been
denied re-entry into the Ironworkers by the
unanimous decision of the State Industrial
Commission. ,
Thornton hugged and was kissed by one of
the Chinese visitors; along with Comrade-Alderman
Tom Wright, of the Sydney City Council, a Moscow,
delegate like Thornton, head of the Sheetmetal
Workers’ Union and the principal financial manager
for many years of the Communist party of Aus-
tralia, whose functionaries solemnly told the Petrov
commissioners—who did not believe them—that
they kept neither minutes nor books of account.
The Chinese visitors are guests-of-honor with
the Communist-led unions. They will be tolerated
by the press, which they will use for the purposes
of their own propaganda. Messrs. Wright and
Thornton may even use for election-purposes the
photographs of themselves hugging the distinguished
guests, party to the slaughter of millions, part of
a national organisation which furnished a million
men to kill Australians, Britons and Americans in
Korea and fabricated the most loathsome charges
of germ-warfare and torture of civilians against
United Nations troops.
The visit of these gentry is part of the Moscow
campaign of infiltration of the Western world, quite
as much as the visit of Bulganin and Khrushchov to
England. Khrushchov and Bulganin ostensibly are
emissaries come with open arms in the name of
love and friendship for the British people whom
they have been seeking for 40 years to destroy as
a nation.
The Chinese have come in the name of trade-
unionism from a country where there is no trade-
unionism as we know it. Trade-unions in China, as
in every other Communist country, are depart-
ments of the Government, and their function is to
ensure that the Government gets the maximum of
labor out of the workers. They come from a
country in which there are no strikes, because any
attempt to strike would be met with military action.
They stand for everything the Thorntons and the
Healy s profess to abhor in Australia—mass-
repression by Government, Government-run trade-
unionism, speed-up, suppression of free speech, and
medals for pace-setter Stakhanovites.
That these people should be allowed to visit
Australia is in accordance with our principles of
freedom of speech, but the weakness lies in the
fact that there is nobody apparently ready to make
it clear on a large scale exactly what sort of trade-
unions they represent and what they stand for. They
will be sheltered from those sections of the press
which might ask them awkward questions, and if
they should be asked them they will turn them
aside with sophistry.
The Khrushchov-Bulganin visit to England has
features as interesting as those of the Australian
visit, but they have to deal with a tougher people,
more aware of what they face in Russia, possibly
because Britain is more homogeneous and longer
established than Australia. The visit was notably
different from those the Russian leaders have made
to other countries, because the British did not allow
them to turn it into a propaganda set-piece designed
to provide evidence that they had taken England
by storm over the head of its Government.
As when Stalin made his pact with Hitler, they
came up against an awkward snag in the British
Labor Party, which is master of its own fate (some-
times), and the dinner which the party gave them
apparently turned into something very like a brawl
when they showed their teeth at being asked to
release Social Democrats imprisoned by them and
their satellites. They angered even such extreme
Leftists as Aneurin Bevan when they tried to
persuade the Labor audience that they had nothing
to do with the control of satellites who turn-over
when Moscow tums-over.
They were subject to a student-demonstration
in Oxford, where they remarked politely that they
had student-trouble in Russia sometimes, too, fail-
ing to add that there had been some at Tiflis as the
result of their repudiation of Stalin and that their
response to that rag had been to shoot-down a
hundred or so of the demonstrators to teach them
that Oxford manners would not be tolerated in
Georgia.
The final party amid the luxurious surround-
ings of Claridge’s was the most turgid since the
famous one given by Billy Hill, with Khrushchov
turning his back on a former Labor Minister who
had been his host at the Labor dinner and photo-
graphed beaming at Charlie Chaplin and looking
as if he would like to hug him, but evidently not
prepared to go as far as Thornton and Wright were
prepared to go with their Chinese visitors.
B. and K. obviously did not kiss or hug either
Anthony Eden or Labor-leader Gaitskell before
they returned home to celebrate May Day in Red-
square under clouds of warplanes and amid
rumbling Stalin tanks —have they renamed them?
—the thunderous singing of “Internationale” and
endless phalanxes of steel-helmeted, heavily-armed
troops and armor, and guns which every year
advertise the peaceful intentions of what the Aus-
tralian Communist Party calls “our beloved Soviet
Fatherland” and the urgent need for world-revolu-
tion and the suppression of the freedoms of the
West under a Russian command as in Poland and
Hungary and a dictatorship of the proletariat sub-
servient to Moscow to blot out all opponents of
Communism.
The British Government, in the face of its
knowledge, can have felt little hope that it would
be able to issue more than the polite double-talk
communique which has been issued after its talks
with its troublesome guests. They must have been
glad the visitors had had the British Labor Party
to deal with instead of the A.L.P., which would
have made the Khrushchov visit all that the Kremlin
could have wished. And they must have been glad
that neither Khrushchov nor Bulganin attempted to
kiss them.
For there is one thing which nations and
Governments, individuals and Communist parties
outside Russia have learned to be invariable, what-
ever variations there are otherwise in the Moscow-
line: that the kiss of Moscow is the kiss of death.
Australian unionism and political “Labor”
branches will learn it, too, if they continue to allow
Communism to infiltrate them with its “united-
front” line, which is at present meeting with such
success under the aegis of Dr. Evatt and Messrs.
Ward and Pollard and their followers and people
like Comrades Healy, Thornton and Tom Wright.
Manufactures and Markets
THE fall in Australia’s export-earnings and the
knowledge that import-restrictions can never
provide a permanent answer to the problem have
set many minds searching for a more lasting solu-
tion. Although the tax-increases and other measures
taken by the Government, and the political storm
they have aroused, have made the general public
aware of the situation for the first time —still only
a very dim awareness as far as most people are
concerned —the problem is by no means a new
one. It has been looming over our economy ever
since the war, but for a long time its threat was
obscured by high prices for our primary products
—kept at artificially high levels by war-induced
shortages. The big drop in wool-values in 1951-52
was a sudden shock to our economic system, but
when, thanks largely to the so-called Horror Budget,
the impact was cushioned and its effect minimised,
the community learnt no lasting lesson from it.
Our export-trade has always meant, in the
main, our exports of primary products —wool,
wheat, barley, sugar, dried-fruits; meat and dairy-
produce; lead and other minerals. Manufactured
goods have contributed to only a minor degree,
necessarily so since manufacturing played, in the
past, only a small part in our economy. But in the
past two decades, and particularly in the years since
the war, there has been a steady transformation of
the local scene. The manufacturing side of our
industry has been growing by leaps and bounds,
and the tendency year by year has been to supply
more and more of our own needs in manufactured
goods. This change has been accompanied by a
fall in the number of persons engaged in primary
industry—though not in the quantity or quality of
primary products —and a vastly more than corres-
ponding growth in the numbers engaged in
secondary industry. In effect, the new factories
have absorbed the natural increase in the popula-
tion, the large drift from the country to the city
and the vast stream of migrants who have come to
Australia since 1946.
It might be thought that this big increase in
manufactures would mean a lessened demand for
imports, but this has not been the case. Great
though the increase in factory-output has been, it
has not been sufficient to cope with the growing
needs of the two-million people who have been
added to the population since 1939, and to the
extent that local goods have not been able to keep
up with the spending-power of the growing
industrial population, importers have tried to make
up the deficiency. Moreover, the factories have
themselves helped to swell the imports through
their needs in raw materials and in capital plant
and equipment. On top of this has been the
formidable list of Government imports—items
needed for the State and Federal developmental
works such as the Snowy Mountains scheme; equip-
ment for new power-stations; replacements for
railway rolling-stock.
The effect of all this is that, despite restrictions,
there must be a limit below which imports cannot
go without affecting both current production and
future development of our own manufacturing-
industry. Further, with domestic consumption
growing with the increasing population, there is a
smaller proportion of our primary produce avail-
able for export than there was in 1939. Wool-
production, thanks to pasture-improvement and the
lessened depredations of the rabbit, may be expected
to expand; so, too, may production of other
primary products. But falling world-prices seem
likely to offset the improvement this would other-
wise make in our balance-of-trade position. In the
forward view, primary products alone cannot
indefinitely pay the bill for our imports; manu-
factures will have to do their part. This means
that it is not enough for our secondary industries
to meet the wants of the domestic market; they
must also produce a surplus for export. With a few
exceptions, Australian industry since the war has
completely neglected the overseas market. For the
most part it has not had to concern itself about
exports, as the home-market has been able to
absorb all its output. On the other hand, there has
been rather too much acceptance of the belief that
Australian manufactures cannot hope to compete
outside our shores because of high wages. That is
a despairing attitude which cannot be supported.
High wages are not an insuperable barrier to export-
trade. Britain was supreme in the export-field at a
time when its workers, however low their wages
may have been by present-day standards, were
highly paid in comparison with Continental
countries. America, a high-wage country, occupies
the same position today. In Australia most of our
secondary industries enjoy the protection of a home-
market, but lead-refining—the one big industrial
enterprise which has to sell its product on the
world-market—is able to hold its own despite high
wages, and the Australian steel-industry tums-out
a product comparable in price to any in the world.
In both cases a high degree of mechanisation and
of managerial efficiency are the explanation.
But although it is easy to talk of expanding
industry, this is not merely a matter of erecting
buildings and engaging labor. There are many
problems associated with the desired expansion,
and one of the biggest is the scarcity of trained
scientists, engineers and technologists. American
leaders have recently expressed concern that
the number of scientists and engineers trained
annually in Russia exceeds the number trained in
the United States. Last July the House of Commons
debated the dearth of technical and scientific man-
power in the United Kingdom. Despite an increase
in science-graduates from 50,000 in 1939 to 80,000
in 1955 and in technologists from 50,000 to 130,000
in the same period, British industry cannot get
enough of either class to keep pace with the growth
of mechanisation. In this country there is a growing
awareness of the need, but not much is being done
to meet it. Recently the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, mentioned the subject when opening
the national conference of the Institution of
Engineers. He suggested that more use could be
made of New Australians with European qualifica-
tions and that facilities should be offered for trade-
apprentices to acquire professional status by giving
them opportunities to study. On the same day Sir
lan Clunies-Ross, chairman of the C.5.1.R.0., told
a Rotary conference that university-education in
Australia badly needed review to meet the shortage
of scientists and technologists. Similar warnings
have been uttered by professors of engineering and
leaders of heavy-industry.
But awareness of the situation is not yet suffici-
ently widespread. What is needed is a campaign
to bring home the seriousness of the position to as
wide a section of the community as possible —the
businessmen, politicians and trade-union leaders,
the young people in industry and the parents who
send their children into dead-end jobs. If the whole
community could be made to realise that in a
Machine Age (and with automation round the
comer) unskilled and semi-skilled workers depend
for their jobs on skilled tradesmen, and that these
in turn depend for theirs on the ability of scientists,
engineers and technologists to keep abreast of pro-
gress, Australia would have no need to harbor any
doubts about its ability to compete with the rest
of the world.


AFTER THE PARTY
“They love me; they love me not..."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mateship and Democracy
The “Labor” policy, as any leader of the
party will aver on the slightest provoca-
tion, is built round the Australian
principle of mateship. Henry Lawson is
Australian “Labor’s” literary idol be-
cause of mateship.
As practised in the A.L.P. mateship
has been seen in full flower in the past
week or two. About the only person
willing to be mates all round is Cahill,
who will back anybody who will keep
him in office.
The plan of the Federal executive and
the Union Steering Committee in the
background seemed to be to convict two
officials of having issued a faked how-to-
vote paper, thus leading the deluded 300-
odd at the last State conference to vote
solidly for the Groups instead of
solidly for Evatt and a Moscow-born
policy. Having convicted the officials
and established irregularity at the elec-
tions, it intended to follow its ethical
outlook by ousting the old executive
(after 11 months in office), appointing an
executive of its own which would steer
the next convention in June in a proper
direction and see that no resolutions
would be put forward to embarrass Dr.
Evatt or the foreign supporters of the
Hobart Conference resolutions.
The issue of three writs against Ward,
M.P., and others by one of the accused
did as much to disrupt this plan as the
fact that the rules of the party seem to
provide that charges of this sort made
against an individual respecting a State
matter should be tried by the State execu-
tive. And these charges seem to be made
only against the persons concerned as
individuals. If it had been possible to
make them directly against the whole
State executive the Federal A.L.P. would
no doubt have made them eagerly, and
the whole position would have been
simplified. As the matter stands, the
worst the Federal executive appears to
be able to do is to allege that the State
executive was irregularly elected because
of some individuals’ irregular behavior,
and to try it (as it was doing at the week-
end) on a charge of “running dead” in
its support of certain Evatt supporters
at elections.
Meanwhile the State conference is
approaching. The State executive is
obviously playing for time to organise
the conference to suit its taste; the
Federal executive is shivering on the brink
of action and wondering whether it will
dare to take the step of dissolving the
present State executive.
There are other embarrassments. Mr.
Santamaria appeared at a conference
with an avowal that six months before
Dr. Evatt suddenly accused him, in the
middle of the Petrov inquiry, of being
the head-and-front of a sectarian con-
spiracy to destroy the “Labor” party
from within, the Doctor had twice
written to ask the supposed wrecker to
help him write his policy-speech. This
was hard to answer except with a definite
denial.
And in the tortuous reply of Dr. Evatt
there is no specific denial. He had no
explanation of how, if the burrowing of
the sectarian gunpowder-plot was in
progress right through the election-period
of 1954, when he was in touch with every
element of the “Labor” party throughout
the Commonwealth, he found out about
the conspiracy only at a moment when
it became clear that the Right and
Grouper wing of the “Labor” party had
become bitterly opposed to his open
association with the Communist counsel
at the Petrov commission.
A further embarrassment has come
with the new challenge involved in the
formation of a Grouper organisation
called the Labor Unions’ Industrial
Organisation, an anti-Communist body
whose president is R. L. Day, former
president of the Industrial Groups
organisation, and which includes Laurie
Short (Ironworkers) and Lloyd Ross,
secretary of the State A:R.U., among its
senior officers.
The list of its officials will make it
very hard for anybody to allege that this
is a sectarian body. It has made it clear
to the Federal executive that “because
the ‘Labor’ party has abandoned the fight
against Communism we are forced to
form our own anti-Communist organisa-
tion.” It has asked the Federal executive
to take the lead in fighting Communism
in the unions or to declare that this is
a matter for State executives.
This is a poser for the Federal execu-
tive. The picture of it opposing Com-
munism under the leadership of Dr. Evatt
sould be very much like a movie of
Khrushchov fighting Khrushchov. And
it cannot refer the matter to the State
executives without a complete backdown.
Without Benefit of Clergy
Thousands of ex-servicemen in New
South Wales, inside as well outside the
R.S.L., deplore the unfortunate decision
which led to the Anzac Day march in
Sydney degenerating towards the finish
into a muddle of confusion out of which
two processions emerged, one proceeding
(as scheduled) to the War Memorial in
Hyde Park and the other to the Domain.
For over 30 years the Domain has
begn the finishing-point for the march
and the scene of a service in which
ministers of religion of various denomina-
tions have participated. This year the
R.S.L. decided to end the march at Hyde
Park instead, and to hold there a short
service of remembrance in which those
present were asked to offer their own
prayers according to their own religious
beliefs, but at which no clergymen were
invited (or permitted) to officiate.
The change was apparently made to
meet the problem of Roman Catholic
ex-servicemen, who, because of their
beliefs, find themselves unable to attend
services conducted by ministers' of other
denominations.
If the hope was to bring about unity,
the move was sadly unsuccessful. The
majority of marchers went to Hyde Park,
but a substantial number marched to the
Domain, where the Air Force Association
had arranged a religious service on the
traditional lines. Police estimates placed
the number of people in Hyde Park at
50,000; at the Domain, 20,000.
Lieutenant-General Gordon Bennett,
who led the march, was among those
who attended the Domain service.
Mr. Yeo, State president of the R.S.L.,
referred to “saboteurs” who “got to work
on this year’s march,” and said that the
confusion was “due to the activities of
people who were anxious to smash the
march.” Claiming that the large number
who attended the Hyde Park service
proved that the overwhelming majority
supported the R.S.L., he asked “Why,
then, should the R.S.L. consider any sug-
gestion from any minority or any altera-
tions to the arrangements for the march?”
This is an extraordinary attitude. In
the first place the change was apparently
made for the benefit of a minority, and
in the second there is every reason why
the R.S.L., as only one —though the senior
and the biggest—of several ex-service
organisations, should consider, though
not necessarily agree with, suggestions
from minorities.
An early indication that not all R.S.L.
opinion was against the Domain minority
came the day after Anzac Day when the
Coogee-Randwick sub-branch, the largest
in N. S. Wales, carried a motion calling
on the League to revert to the old custom
of finishing the march with a religious
service in the Domain. Similar motions
are bound to be proposed when other
sub-branches meet; lots of Diggers are
wanting to know “why the padres have
been cut out?”
When Mr. Yeo said that the R.S.L. had
organised the Anzac Day march since
1918 and had handled it till this year
without any trouble, he didn’t seem to
realise the full import of what he was
saying. In the trouble-free marches of
1918-55 the padres conducted the com-
memoration services. If the R.S.L. does
the right thing they’ll be conducting it
again next year.
Small Industries' Plight
“In the ACT”: Many of the smaller
manufacturing businesses, especially
Melbourne and Sydney clothing-factories
employing from two or three to 20 or so
hands, seem to be facing early extinction
unless there is some revision of the
import-licensing policy. The Government
is adamant at the moment on textiles and
most other imports, but it is becoming
apparent that a refusal to raise quotas
will mean not merely a blow to the private
enterprise which it is Government policy
to encourage but will also mean favorit-
ism to the big firms which can obtain
enough raw materials to continue in pro-
duction, even at a reduced rate. At the
same time the prospect is looming of
retail-firms, finding themselves bereft of
goods as a result of the closing of their
small suppliers, inundating the Trade
Department with requests for quotas for
themselves.
It is believed that the consultative-
committee on import-licensing is about
to examine this problem. Its task will
not be easy. The Government is well
aware of the drastic nature of its deci-
sions, and the Minister for Trade has
virtually refused all requests for personal
intervention, no matter what hardship is
involved. The departmental officials,
most of them recently transferred from
Customs, have been told what the policy
is—including, of course, the aim of
reaching a balance in overseas payments
by the end of June —and have been given
authority to make decisions without more
ado. Even the prospect of large-scale
dismissals now carries no weight. It is
believed in Canberra that a clearer
picture is awaited of what is officially
termed “disemployment” before moves
are made to ascertain the prospect men-
tioned by the Prime Minister in March
of making fuller and more economical
use of existing capital-equipment and
other industrial capacity by such means
as double-shifts. This could mean, there-
fore, that there are hopes for transfers of
employees from “non-essential” indus-
tries now using imported raw materials
into factories where double-shifts could
be worked on the production of goods
for export.
If this is the undeclared policy behind
the squeeze now going on in the clothes-
manufacturing and some other smaller
industries, it seems that a great deal of
hardship and loss will be involved. Some
of the more enterprising firms have
already begun investigations of the pros-
pects of export-markets in New Zealand
and Asia, and their efforts may be
encouraged by enlarged quotas. For the
rest, the outlook is alarming. They should
at least be told as soon as possible what
is ahead.
Commonwealth Defence?
“Stromlo” : Even if we succeed in
selling some wool and flour to Red China,
or boost our rice-output to an extent
which, will offer small Asian countries an
alternative to Communist suppliers, we
shall still be faced with defence prob-
lems of the greatest magnitude. We must
trade with some curious customers in the
next few years if we are to survive in an
increasingly competitive world, but we
must also keep our powder dry. This is
a task of such complexity that most
people appear to have given up the
struggle to keep up with strategy and
tactics, and to be ready to leave it all
to defence-chiefs. Yet we should be
insisting that our politicians as well as
our service-leaders should keep properly
abreast of world politics as well as of
the development of the fateful new
weapons ; that they make it a constant
task to, keep everyone adequately in-
formed, and that there is in every section
of the community the widest degree of
understanding of what confronts us now
and will confront us tomorrow.
Every political columnist can tell his
readers that the Prime Ministers will
discuss Commonwealth - defence in
London next June, but there is little
attempt to assess what this means. Lord
Mountbatten gave a little fillip to thinking
when he remarked soberly that Britain
laid immense stress on a medium-bomber
force, and that a navy was still essential
to prevent isolation and starvation of
much of the British Commonwealth,
although thermo - nuclear weapons
affected the design of ships, the composi-
tion of fleets and the tactics of command
of the seas.
The fact that the “Commonwealth”
itself is a changing concept is hardly
realised in Australia, and there has been
little attempt to explain, frankly and
adequately, just what are the new
strengths and weaknesses of our posi-
tion, what are our defence- and other
associations with the rest of the Com-
monwealth, and what and where are the
war-time roles of our companions in
Anzus and Seato.
The Prime Minister’s defence-state-
ment of last year has already become
out-of-date ; the shifts in world-pressures,
in national alignments, in loyalties and
in the intense struggle for trade and
commercial power and prestige, have
made the picture of a year or two ago
nearly unrecognisable. It may be that
Mr. Menzies feels that he cannot offer
any useful survey before he leaves Aus-
tralia, but he should be determined to
present on his return an unvarnished but
complete indication of what must be done
to allow the Commonwealth to guard the
peace.
Britain's Budget
“H.H.” (from London): Mr. Mac-
millan’s first Budget is the most austere
since the days of Sir Stafford Cripps.
In some respects, the Chancellor gave
what was expected: he intends to safe-
guard—even to increase slightly—his
substantial surplus; he has adjusted the
tax-burden; and, by innovatory and
ingenious methods, he has shown that
he means to stimulate saving. The net
result should be disinflationary—but will
it be enough?
In orthodox financial circles there is
disappointment. Nothing has been done
to promote effort or to increase pro-
ductivity. The Budget lacks dynamism.
It is not very stirring and lacks the grand
concept. In sum, the Chancellor has
missed a splendid psychological oppor-
tunity of convincing the world that he
means business.
The reasoning behind these qualifica-
tions is not hard to seek. A measure
of firm confidence over a steady period
would do the pound-sterling a power of
good. Therefore, the Chancellor must
put himself over in New York and Zurich
and Amsterdam and Brussels.
The reactions showed that he has not
lost any ground ; the money-market
showed a lively burst of activity. It may
well be that his measures will pull us
round. But so much depends on per-
formance deferred. For example, the
promised cut of £lOO million in Govern-
ment expenditure is applauded in the City,
although with the reservation that such
promises have been made before.
But the success of the Budget depends
largely upon the savings-campaign. The
terms are certainly attractive. The new
National Savings Certificates offer a high
redemption-yield; so do the defence-
bonds. By allowing the first £l5 of
interest under Post Office or Trustee
Savings Bank deposits to be free of tax,
the Chancellor has acknowledged the
representations of the National Savings
Movement.
These provisions give added incentive
to the naturally thrifty. But will they
convert the thriftless? Here, everything
depends upon the premium-bond, which,
although interesting and novel in con-
ception, has yet to be delivered.
The extension of retirement-benefits
to the self-employed or other non-
pensionable persons is to be welcomed.
Long overdue, it will divert an immense
sum of money from spending to saving.
Otherwise, the middle-classes are dis-
appointed at being left, once again, in the
cold. Mr. Macmillan has, though, cor-
rected the anomaly whereby purchased
annuities are liable to tax at the full
standard rate. In future, as in Australia,
Canada and the U.S.A., income-tax will
be charged only on the interest-content
of the annuity.
Extradition—to the
Slave-camp
Sir John Latham’s statement that the
Rancic case showed the > need for clarifica-
tion Of extradition-proceedings was
moderate in the light of the position.
If there had not been public agitation
and the Commonwealth Government had
not been stirred to action the chances
are that on a prima facie case being
shown by official allegation, the court
would have had to extradite the unfor-
tunate man, whose charge that he was
being sucked homeward to be punished
for having been associated with General
Mihailovich and anti-Communist move-
ments was lent some color last week.
The belated execution of one of Mihailo-
vich’s lieutenants was reported a few
days ago. Yugoslavia, if not already back
in the Russian camp, is at least outside
the gates waiting for them to be opened.
The existing treaties with Iron Cur-
tain countries are mostly antiquated and
were made with regimes which were
friendly, traded normally, had normal
Western systems of justice and normal
standards of public ethics.
The fact is that east of the western
borders of Czechoslovakia and East
Germany and north of the southern
Russian and Communist Chinese borders
the whole of Eastern Europe and Asia is
/a prison. There are no judicial stand-
ards except expediency. The punish-
ments for the simplest crimes are
barbarous. It has been admitted in
Moscow within the past few days that
during the reign of Vishinsky as head
of the Russian legal system —he was the
Attorney-General, Chief Prosecutor and
the author of the standard work on
' Soviet Union justice—he held as a
principle that truth was not necessary to
justice.
Evidence was and is manufactured on
a large scale, and the idea of submitting
to the Communist judicial processes any-
body who has escaped from behind the
Iron Curtain is unthinkable.
The only consideration which governs
the courts of Iron Curtain countries is
that the Government wants to kill,
imprison or torture the accused, or it
doesn’t. Nothing else counts.
Moreover, even if an extradited
accused were acquitted, even though an
{Continued on next page)


Australian citizen by adoption, he could
disappear or at least be kept in Yugo-
slavia or wherever he is taken under
extradition, submitted to another trial
as a political unreliable and sent to a
slave-camp or merely held incommuni-
cado from his adopted country and the
relatives he had left behind here. Once
he arrived in Eastern Europe there would
be no way of following his movements.
The last few days have provided their
examples. Bulganin and Khrushchov
have tried to cover with shouting and
displays of anger their embarrassment
at being asked to do something for 200
imprisoned Social Democrats, known to
the British Labor Party and who, it is
hoped, are still living. As with the cases
of Maclean and Burgess, and of the four
Jewish writers who disappeared in 1944
and who, it is now admitted, were
secretly executed in August, 1948, they
denied the existence of these people.
The United States has just sent home
two Russian officials working in U.N.Q.
for their part in kidnapping in America
six Russian sailors who did not wish to
go back to their own country.
Australia is full of East European
women who do not know where their
husbands are, whose children had to be
left behind when they escaped their
country, and of the parted remnants of
families, of husbands who do not know
whether their wives are still alive or what
has become of them. Every newspaper-
office, every immigration-official knows
dozens of pitiful tales behind which is the
fact that to leave an Iron Curtain country
is regarded by Communist Governments
in the same way that escape from Long
Bay or Pentridge or some other jail is
regarded in Australia.
And the incidents connected with the
impudent attempt to take Mrs. Petrov out
of the country under a guard of armed
thugs speak for themselves.
To extradite any ex-national of an
Iron Curtain country to his native land
is equivalent to condemning him to death
or exile to a slave-camp.
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Parliament is meeting this week
for the last lap of the period before the
Senate falls under the control of the Anti-
Communist group of two. It has a pro-
gramme large enough for three months’
debate and only a month to carry it
through before Menzies leaves for the
Prime Ministers’ Conference in London.
• •
Russia is reported to have placed an
order in Britain for £l-million-worth of
plastic door-handles. A better buy
would be a shipment of iron curtain-
rods.
• •
Mr. Casey, uttering high praise of the
statesmanlike qualities of Sir William
McKell, has taken him away from his
work of organising out-of-door picture-
shows to exercise his constitutional and
legal talents as the Australian representa-
tive on the commission which is to draft
the Malayan Constitution.
• •
One-hundred-and-fifty-eight nomina-
tions were received for the 75 seats in
the Queensland Assembly election to be
held on May 19. Eight sitting members
will be unopposed —three “Labor,” three
Country Party and two Liberals. There’ll
be three-cornered fights in 12 electorates
and four-cornered in two —Sherwood and
Townsville. The other 53 seats will be
straightout contests.
Queensland, along among Australian
States, sticks to the old first-past-the-post
system in its elections, and, under the
party-system, this does not encourage a
multiplicity of candidates.
• •
A contest which will be watched with
interest will be Frank Forde’s attempt to
retain the Flinders seat which he won
at a by-election last year. On that
occasion there were three candidates
and Forde secured 1176 votes against
Country-party man Lonergan’s 864 and
Independent Corney’s 519. This time
there’ll be only Forde and Lonergan in
the field. The Country party is hoping
for fine weather on polling-day; it didn’t
get it last time.
• •
It had been expected that there would
be a straight-out fight between Premier
Gair and “Labor” rebel Roberts in South
Brisbane, as the Liberals were going to
leave the field to Roberts. But when
nominations were announced it was seen
that J. A. Noonan, a public accountant,
had also entered the lists as an Inde-
pendent. Gair is probably breathing more
freely now.
• •
Australian Communists, who are get-
ting quite hysterical over the expressed
intention of America to explode a hydro-
gen-bomb in the Marshall Islands, are
silent over Khrushchov’s announcement
that Russia has already detonated one,
presumably in Siberia. Don’t, the Com-
rades mind Russian citizens being exposed
to the danger of radioactive dust? Or
does the bomb behave itself better when
exploded by the Reds?
The Doc., too, has ignored Khrush-
chov’s H-bomb claim. Doesn’t he be-
lieve it? Or is it merely that the news
embarrasses his current campaign to
stop American and British bomb-tests?
• •
Playford won the staring-out contest
over freight-rates on coal from Leigh
Creek to Port Augusta, and the construc-
tion of the second big powerhouse at the
top of Spencer Gulf will now proceed
according to the original plan. Last week
Menzies told the South Australian
Premier that the Commonwealth Rail-
ways would do the hauling for 11s. 6d. a
ton. The earlier quote of 30s. sd. had
threatened to put an end to the projected
expansion of the plant. A sequel to this
decision will be a resumption of building
activity in S.A.’s northern seaport, and it
is expected that the S.A. Housing Trust
will resume its suspended programme of
providing 1000 homes in the area.
e ©
Under the new International Wheat
Agreement, Australia’s export quota will
be cut by 15 million bushels; present
quota is 45 million bushels. Quotas for
the other exporting countries will be
similarly reduced. Prices under the
agreement will range from 13s. sd. to
17s. lOd. a bushel.
• •
A switch from rental-building to
building for ownership was announced
by Premier Bolte when he said that Vic-
torian Housing Commission building-
programme would be cut by 20 per
cent, in the coming year, but that from
600-800 more homes would be built
through building-societies. This is the
outcome of the new Commonwealth-
States housing-agreement.
• •
On the test of by-elections _the Bolte
Government is holding its own very com-
fortably in Victoria after nearly a year
of office. The Momington Assembly
seat and the Ballarat seat in the Legis-
lative Council were retained without
much trouble, and the more recent
Camberwell by-election also resulted in
a substantial win for the L.C.P. candi-
date, V. F. Wilcox. Camberwell is, of
course, a safe Lib. seat —the late R. K.
Whately won it by 6774 votes last year—
and its loss was unthinkable. But the
effect of the backwash of the Federal
Government’s tax-measures and the
"SORRY, OLD CHAP!"
possibility of dropping some of Whately’s
personal-popularity support made the
contest an interesting test. Wilcox won
by 4746 in a greatly-reduced poll.
In the circumstances Bolte was justified
in taking this as a vote of confidence and
a sign “that people would support a
Government that did things and tackled
long-overdue reforms.”
■ • •
Narrowest win in the Westralian elec-
tion was that of “Labor” man J. Hall,
who defeated Country-party member
L. L. Hill by 18 votes after the preferences
of the other C.P. candidate, A. T. Gul-
vin, had been distributed.
• •
Other narrow wins were Toodyay, won
by sitting member L. Thorn (C.P.) by 65
votes ; Bunbury —G. F. Roberts (L.C.L.),
99 ; Canning—W. J. Gaffy (Labor), 207 ;
Leederville —S. E. Johnson (Labor),
235 ; Subiaco—P. G. Potter (Labor),
293. In the Legislative Council J. M.
Cunningham (L.C.L.) got home in
South-east Province by 85 votes.
• •
“H.K.”: Few Australians appear to
have appreciated the significance of the
recent visit to Red China of Australia’s
trade-commissioner in Hong Kong, H. C.
Menzies, at the invitation of the official
Chinese purchasing-agency. All foreign
missions in Canberra have displayed
great interest in the trip, during which
sales of Australian wheat and wool were
discussed and in which there was recog-
nition, also, of the restrictions still exist-
ing on exports of strategic materials. Our
present imports from China include
bristles, tung-oil and tea. These may be
increased, especially if Peking shows signs
of becoming an important customer in a
world where many markets are shrinking.
• •
Navy Minister O’Sullivan replied
tersely to Parliamentary questions con-
cerning the refit of H.M.A.S. Hobart.
After disclosing that the refit, in New-
castle State Dockyard, took from Septem-
ber, 1952, to November, 1955,
£1,333,000, the Minister was asked, “Is it
now proposed to sell this ship?” He
replied, “No.”
• •
Mr. Gaitskell, leader of the British
Labor Party, discovered a “terrible ignor-
ance” in Comrades Bulganin and Khrush-
chov about what sort of people the
British are and what British democracy is
like. More important still, he found that
Khrushchov is still a “fanatical Com-
munist”—-which can only mean that he
is still a fanatical advocate of world-
revolution by force, and a fanatical sup-
porter of the idea that Communism can
succeed only by the destruction of the
Western system of democracy.
• •
“In the ACT”: Reported that Minister
for Primary Industries McMahon will be
Acting Minister for Trade when McEwen
goes to London to argue the toss on
Ottawa and GATT. This may make
McMahon a temporary member of
Cabinet, if the current administration
methods are retained. Trade is ranked
with Treasury as one of the top port-
folios. Meanwhile Customs Minister
Osborne, bereft of import-licensing, is
wondering what can be done either to
increase his Ministerial activities or to
find a more useful field of work. No
move has been made concerning the three
Parliamentary under-secretaries. Swartz
has been giving McEwen some unofficial
help in Trade, but has no official or
executive standing ; Hamilton and Howse
are undertaking no extra duties, pending
clarification, long overdue, of their
position.
• •
Frank Roberts, former Lord Mayor of
Brisbane, former “Labor” M.L.A. for
Nundah, who is standing as an Indepen-
dent against Queensland Premier Gair in
South Brisbane, is jumping into the cam-
paign bools-and-all. His slogan as
shown on his how-to-vote cards: “Help
Relieve Queensland of the Gair-Bukow-
ski political Combine.”
• •
Gair told a Dalby audience that his
party made no apology for its policy on
socialisation. He said “Labor” would
nationalise public utilities when the
public interest required it, but “we do not
intend, and never have intended, to
socialise the corner-shop.” Never?
There was a time when Queensland
“Labor” was running State cattle-
stations, meatworks, hotels, butcher-
shops, trawlers, fish-shops and sundry
other sidelines, all of which were
bywords for inefficiency and heavy
losses.
• •
“Wusslean”: Another move in the
lottery “war” ; notice was given in the
Victorian Legislative Assembly of legis-
lation to ban the advertising of inter-
state lotteries over radio-stations. At
present no inter-State lottery may be
advertised in publications in Victoria, but
the ban does not apply to broadcasting.
The proposed legislation, Attorney-
General Rylah says, will “close this loop-
hole.” That it would be in the interests
of private thrift and public investment if
all States banned the advertising of all
lotteries, inter-State or otherwise, does
not seem to occur to our money-hungry
legislators.
• •
“D.W.M.”: Towing-away of cars by
the police in Brisbane has become a
political issue. Minister for Labor Jones,
who is in charge of the police, has
decided that towing is not such a good
idea after all. The more lawful pro-
cedure of prosecuting for illegal parking
is to be reverted to. Five police-cars
equipped with public-address systems
will patrol streets and highways in an
effort to educate motorists and also
prevent parking in prohibited areas.
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Impressed by Dutch
enterprise in the training of Papuans at
Hollandia in nautical matters, the
Administrator of New Guinea, D. M.
Cleland, is considering establishment of
a nautical training-school at Port
Moresby. The idea is to expand and
develop the present system of training
crews for small Government ships. The
Hollandia school teaches seamanship,
signalling, radio - operation, marine-
engineering and associated matters.
Private companies in the Territory are
interested in small ships to a much greater
extent than is private enterprise in Dutch
New Guinea; one firm has already
promised to support the school if estab-
lished.
• •
Undeterred by the increase in air-
travel, the Orient Co. plans a 40,000-ton
liner for the U.K.-Pacific routes. The
ship will have a speed of 27 knots, which
is 4£ knots faster than the Orcades class,
and may make five voyages a year to
Australia, including the round trip via
N.Z. and North America. Her length
will be about 800 ft.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A FEW hours after marching into camp
he asked me how to go about getting
leave for the following weekend. I told
him it was next to impossible, but in any
case he had nothing to lose by making a
written application to the O.C. So the
young Dig applied for leave to attend his
parents’ wedding. The O.C. found it fair
dinkum, and let him go. Seems that they
had been divorced, but had decided to
give double-harness another fly. Four
other Nashos tried the same excuse during
the next week, but no dice. —“Staff.”
)j»
“Nunk”: It is, of course, too late to
remark what everyone is remarking, that
Mr. Les Welch has made an almost un-
believably good job of the pops-song
“Memories Were Made of This”; but
maybe one can be in the first few to
remark on the singing of some French
songs by a Miss Anita Kelly in an A.B.C.
“Young Australia” session from Mel-
bourne a few weekends ago. That
singing of strikingly individual quality
should be still worth remarking-on in
Australia may mean there is room for
much more of it, but it’s encouraging to
know it’s there.
“Doric”: He was fiddling about with
the ash-tray in his car, when a friend
passed. “Do you know how to get these
things out?” he asked. Dual fiddling
followed, but without effect. “That’s the
worst of the cars,” said his friend.
“Every time you want to empty the ash-
tray, the car has to be turned upside-
down.”
<■>
“Wusslean”: Young Wusslean was one
of the cheering, jostling, scrimmaging
throng on the banks of the Barwon (Vic.)
for the Head of the River. His school
lost each of its three races ; he was in
constant peril of being knocked over and
trampled-on, shoved into the river, and
pelted in the eye with apple-cores and
tomatoes by boys from rival schools, who
defied the efforts of their prefects and the
few policemen present to keep them in
order. Young W. came back to our car
after the last race, dishevelled and
bruised, minus his cap and badge, which
will cost me nearly a quid to replace, but
positively radiant with satisfaction.
“Best boatrace-day we’ve ever had,” he
exclaimed. “Absolutely beaut! ” His
remarks were enthusiastically endorsed
by a schoolmate sporting a bloody nose.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Willpar”: Did Richard 111 have a
nose as long and pointed as that attached
to Sir Laurence Olivier’s features in
London Films Shakspearian production?
I doubt it. As a caricaturist, I revel in
an unusual nose, but I have yet to see
one resembling the creation on Sir
Laurence. Apart from abnormal length
and sharpness, in profile it is in the same
unbroken straight line as the forehead —
most unusual. I doubt whether there is
any pictorial proof that the royal probos-
cis had such proportions. Admittedly,
if it had, an artist drawing it accurately
might have gone to the block. But with-
out a written description, accompanied
by 3. surveyor’s certificate, I refuse to
believe it. One publicity “still” shows
Sir Laurence (Richard) kissing Claire
Bloom (Lady Anne) on the bottom lip.
The nose is making what appears to be
a rather painful indentation or her high
cheekbone. Had he kissed her top lip
he’d have poked out her eye.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Mac Hoots”: Invitations to the fare-
well-party in Sydney for the writers,
professors and artists off to China were
addressed to “Dear Friend.” What’s
wrong with “Dear Sir or Madam”?
*+* ♦!+
“Sluefoot”: Fifteen carrying rifles and
bayonets, and looking very slick in their
khaki, marched through the milling
crowd at Eagle Farm (Brisbane) airport.
One stepped forward and informed a
senior-looking policeman that they were
the guard for Louis Armstrong. The cop
admitted he hadn’t been informed about
this, and summoned his 2 i/c. This gent,
remembered “hearing something about a
“When you’re ready , Miss McArdle , I want you to type a
notice of dismissal.”
guard,” and with great enthusiasm said,
“Well, lads, I have a dozen of my men
here as well, and we won’t take any
nonsense from this mob.” So the heroes
spent a rowdy afternoon keeping the
souveniring crowd at bay. Not that the
Army was getting solicitous of “Ole
Satchmo’s” welfare; they were just 15
university-students out for a lark and a
ringside view of “Satch” and his
entourage.
❖ ❖
“Cash Count”: It’-s enough to make
anybody superstitious. On Friday, April
13, the newspapers announced that
“I've stopped going out with the professor. He cant get his mind
off examinations ."
counterfeit fivers were circulating in
Melbourne. Our depositors, who have
been wary of tenners ever since Mr.
One-by-one had his flutter, took their
cash in singles even for amounts up to
£lOO. Strangers came in droves to change
fivers into singles; one old dear brought
a roll of fivers that had lain under the
mattress for years, and even after I had
explained that her notes were a different
series, she still insisted on having them
changed. And, to top it all off, I balanced
up a pound short.
“Narumee”: The week the news of the
fiver-forgeries hit Melbourne’s headlines,
my husband’s fortnightly pay-envelope
contained exclusively fivers, I worried
about being able to change them. I
needn’t have. Reactions were: — A
garage: “Slip next door, Joe, and get
some more singles. We’ve run out
again.” A grocer: “Well, I’m no expert,
but this looks all right to me.” A
butcher: “Mustn’t be fussy. One note’s
as good as another when it’s that color.”
Proprietress of a small shop: “Oh, I’d
never suspect anyone like you giving me
a forged one.” Assistant in a large city-
store: “I’ve had so many instructions
about what to look for, I’ve forgotten
the lot. I’m trusting to luck.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Zorok”: That misplaced “e” for “a”
in Grace Kelly’s “duel” citizenship (B.
18/4/’56) recalls the misplaced “e” when
a big American daily, meaning to give
out the news that President Franklin D.
Roosevelt was laid-up with a heavy cold,
headlined “President in Bed with Coed.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦*+
“Ardoyne”: A couple of the Vic.
Railways’ call-sign sirens have already
been pinched from the trains, and a bar-
rister who appeared in court on behalf
of an alleged culprit—a 17-year-old
youth—raised the defence that the sirens’
noise constituted a public nuisance, and
therefore action taken to abate such
nuisance was within the law. Fined £25.
“B. A. Ker”: Don’t remember that
schoolboy ditty mentioned on the “Red
Page,” “Hugo Tuck was out of luck,”
etc., but I do recall: “Once a Chinaman
ran amuck, parley-voo; And now he’s as
dead as Hugo Tuck”. . . The Chinese in
question “went off his berserk” (as my
schoolmate put it), bailed-up in a house in
an “underprivileged” area of Sydney,
and declared war >on the world. Fire-
men who were called upon to hose him
out were fired at, one being wounded.
The police were keeping at the healthiest
distance when a visiting Yank requested
the loan of a “regular” gun. An obliging
policeman handed over his service
revolver, whereupon the Yank sneaked in
a back window, exchanged two shots with
the Celestial, then strolled out and told
the relieved cops they could take delivery
of the body.
❖ ♦> *Z*
“Sevenelms”: In Adelaide a New Aus-
tralian housewife has been fined for
growing opium-poppies. The prosecutor
stated his belief in her excuse that she
was only using the seeds for sprinkling
on rolls. This was fair enough, as Pap-
aver somniferum is also the source of
commercial poppy-seed, produced widely
in Europe as well as in India. The
Oriental poppy, judging by its frequency
in our gardens, suffers apparently no
official ban, but it is the Armenian and
Turkish source of opium. Which recalls
that H. G. Keith, Conservator of Forests,
British North Borneo, surveying an addi-
tional tract for a large Japanese-owned
rubber-estate at Tawao, was intrigued by
the extent of some large green hedges
interspersing the rubber, and the inability
of the manager to explain their purpose
or species. Upon his return to Sandakan
with a few leaves in his pocket, Jose
Agama, his deputy, quickly identified
them as Erythroxylon coca. The
Japanese manager was firmly told that
the land was for the production of
rubber and not cocaine, and out came the
hedges pronto.
♦jt
“Bo”: Have a Digger mate who had
to go into the Repat. Hospital when
something went wrong with his works.
They fed him a long tube inside which
was a small but strong light, to illuminate
his innards. When he got it down, after
a lot of. manoeuvring, alarm settled on
his phiz. The Doc. looked concerned.
“Anything wrong, old man?” he asked.
Dig pointed to the bottom of his pyjama-
coat, the buttons of which were open.
“Yair, doc.,” he said. “I think you’d
better put a couple of stitches in me navel
—I saw a chink o’ light cornin’ through 1.”
❖ ❖ *X*
'T'HE prophets tell me that Berridale
(N.S.W.), when the rivers are all
running backwards through the tunnels
and the great dams are high over Jinda-
byne and Adaminaby, might become the
biggest tourist-centre in the Snowy Moun-
tains area. In the meantime I celebrate
the glitter of Mrs. Peel’s Berridale Hotel,
which has the most amazing collection
of bric-a-brac crowding the bar-shelves
I have ever seen. There are chamberpots
ingeniously constructed of bottletops, two
brass footballers, a bottle of Bells in the
shape of a bell, another bottle in the shape
of a cannon, stands of ornamental tooth-
picks bristling like porcupines, kooka-
burras made from pinecones, Dutch
youths and maidens in porcelain, china
flowers and china dogs by the dozen,
Balinese wooden heads, miniature barrels
and miniature and oversize bottles, an
enormous challenge-shield and silver
challenge-cups, German beer-mugs, plastic
pelicans, roosters in red and purple that
would scare any hen into laying china-
eggs, elephants, cats, bunches of brass
grapes and, to crown all—among others
too numerous to catalogue—remote on
the top shelf where only the most search-
ing eye will find its reward, a rear-view
of the most delightful little pink porcelain
nude, employed as the handle of a beer-
mug, displaying the rosiest of her curves
as she dives headlong over the rim.—“S.”
A FLUTTER IN THE DOVECOTE
“The 282 delegates to the A.L.P. Women’s
Central Organising Committee screamed abuse
at each other and fought for the microphone at
the Sydney Trades Hall.”
Ah, the pity of it, Bert; the pity, the pity !
See what you've done to your women in
Sydney city —
Disorganised their Organising Com-
mittee !
One envisages them aforetimes, going
great guns:
Repeals, recipes, realignments, reminis-
cences of daughters and sons —
Everyone talking cheerfully to everyone
else at once ;
But now they are divided; gone is that
cheerful tone;
They scream imprecations and grab for
the microphone,
Unfemininely demanding, each, to be
heard alone;
Reminding one — eh, Bert? —of a clever
committee-manipulator
Who wanted to bring about equality by
becoming a dictator
And soon got known as the Great
Disintegrator,
And providing material for political
enemies' pens
And angry pictures for the Sunday
newspaper-lens —
Oh, wretched rooster / Alas, poor
ruffled hens!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T>ACK in the good old days women
were charged less for admission to
places of amusement than men. Few
women went to work in those days, and
when they did, their wages were much
smaller than men’s wages. All that seems
to have gone, with the one exception of
admission to the saddling-paddock on the
racecourses. And here women who can
afford the more expensive enclosure get a
concession denied women who have to be
satisfied with the cheaper enclosures. I
can’t figure this one out. —“W.P.T.”
♦Ji £«
“Opsimath”: A London chiropodist
who took first-floor premises in a district
that appeared ideal for corn-walloping
told the bankruptcy court that he forgot
that “People with bad feet cannot be
expected to walk up stairs.”
“G.A.L.”: Australia will do herself
proud with the proposed stamp-issue for
the Melbourne Olympics. Four values
“What's Wrong, Dad — did I forget something ?”
are to be issued: 3|d., 7|d., Is. and 2s.
along with a booklet of a dozen 3|d. and
a commemorative lOd. - aerogramme.
Best news for philatelists is the P.M.G.’s
word that the two top values will be
printed in multicolored photogravure—
something new here. One is to be pro-
duced by Harrison and Sons, London
printers of Britain’s photogravure stamps,
and the other by Courvoisier, the Swiss
firm that prints stamps for many top-
issuing countries.
“Ceg”: Victorian country cemeteries
are deplorably unkempt. Many epitaphs,
some quite recent, are becoming
obliterated, the graves overgrown, paths
choked with weeds. An air of neglect
overhangs all. Boxthom is taking charge
in many places, and snakes, lizards, etc.,
abound. Why is so much spent on
expensive tombstones and memorials
when, so soon after their erection, they
are allowed to fall into such conditions?,
❖ ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: Reading the results of a
word-building competition advertised in
a Sydney weekly, I noted these words
among the winning entries: Shokk, Jhvk,
qhat, tchah. The advertisement said
they are all to be found in the Oxford
and Webster’s dictionaries, Comes as a
bit of a shokk, qhat?,
* ❖ *
“Hyanlo”: Each year the G.P.S.
Regatta brings out a gathering of “old
boys” to cheer on their former schools,
only to find that their voices will no
longer compete with the barracking of
the young bloods and the screeching of
their girl-friends. Saw a King’s School
master, surrounded by his pupils who
were yelling “Kings! Kings!” solve the
problem quite well this year. “Here, you
boys, quieten down there,” he said; and
then in the lull his own voice came
clearly . . . “Come o-on, High!”
❖ ♦>
“Stan”: If “Sluefoot” (B. 11/4/’56)
heeds the following advice losses on
stamp-machines may be recovered and a
profit result. After inserting the first
penny lift the cover from the slit for
receiving the stamps. If a blank, insert
another penny, without allowing the cover
to fall. In this way I have received
dozens of stamps over a period for less
than cost, the explanation being that
many people insert coppers into the
machine, only to find that the coin to
make-up is not in pocket as expected.
If pride triumphs over thrift, the
customer curses and moves away, leaving
the machine partly “loaded” for the next
client.
“Sevenelms”: Tell “Seppy” (B.
4/4/’56) that Americans become “com-
muters” by buying season-tickets. They
thus commute their daily fares for re-
duced seasonal ones. See Concise
Oxford: “Change one kind of payment
for another.”
£♦
“Noble”: “Cam’s” outcast word
(B. 11/4/’56) has been admitted to res-
pectability to such an extent in an
organisation I know that the trophy for
the week’s best outburst of nonsensical
verbiage is a toy bull, presented at after-
noon-tea each Friday. The donor of the
prize was a young lady of unquestioned
respectability whose fate it is to be the
only representative of her sex on an other-
wise male staff.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: It’s fine that Melbourne’s
station-pier is to undergo a facial for the
benefit of the 15,000-odd visitors expected
for the Olympic Games. No one,
apparently, gave a thought to the first
impressions received by the million-plus
“Turn right by Saturn, past the Milky Way, then straight ahead for
two-thousand light years—you cant miss it."
post-war migrants. I won’t forget my first
view of that stark and desolate structure
in a hurry, or the icy wind that swept
around us while the Customs officials
took their time pulling the baggage of a
very New Australian family to pieces.
Now we pay taxes to provide comfort
for foreigners.
❖ ❖
“D.W.M.”: Yes, “waterproof-watch”
is just another good sales-line with some
dealers. Most watch-cases are designed
to prevent only the entry of moisture. A
watch-case breathes. Although it is a
little box, appearing to the casual
observer to be completely filled with
the movement, nearly two thirds of the
case-interior is air-space. Air expands
and occupies more space when it is hot
than when it is cold; consequently when
the watch is warmed-up the air in it
expands, ejecting a small amount; when
the watch cools-down the air contracts,
causing new air to be drawn in from
the atmosphere. The
new air brings with
it damp and dust,
which is deposited
on the wheels and
pinions of the watch-
movement. A real
waterproof watch
usually has a round
“glass” of unbreak-
able plastic material,
not like the ordinary
unbreakable, but
clamped under the
bezel in a special
manner. Different
manufacturers use
various methods to
obtain watertight
cases.
❖ ❖
“Wandana”: When
a cycle-shop in Port
Adelaide (S.A.) made
a centenary gesture,
offering more than
100 machines at
prices ranging from
Is. to 10s., crowds
waited outside all
night. Door-opening
at eight-o’clock was
like a women’s bar-
gain - sale display.
Three-hundred small
boys were ready to jump the gun, and
surged into the shop after forcing the
doors, smashing glass counters and
damaging merchandise in the mad rush.
One youngster who was slightly injured
in file near-riot was given a bicycle as a
consolation gift, but a couple of hundred
who missed-out in the charge wandered
disconsolately home.
“The Red Dam”: Our Westralian
youngsters and Davy Crockett just didn’t
get along together. But how they have
fallen for the branding-iron! An Aus-
tralian manufacturer of jeans now gives
the kids the option, his trade-mark
branded on the seat of the jeans or the
kid’s own monicker branded on the same
place. Most go for their own name.
A new pushbike goes to the one among
these same kids who sends in most money
for odd-jobs done. Westralian spastic
children benefit from all money collected.
♦> • ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: He was sweeping the
littered gutter in Sydney’s York-street.
Along came the County Council water-
wagon with tank full to overflowing but
dribbling only about one pint per square-
yard. “Turn it on, y’ mug!” he yelled
to the driver. No response as the wagon
went on. Turning to me, the bloke with
the broom exploded with disgust: “You’d
think the lousy was payin’ for it!”
♦>
“P.W.R.”: “Sparks” (B. 18/4/’56) asks
why the names of captains of ships are
omitted from shipping-reports and
advertisements of arrivals or departures.
Well, nowadays a shipmaster is only a
person paid to pilot the company’s vessel
around from port to port. He is no longer
the personage he used to be. The one
time that a master-mariner can be assured
of seeing his name prominently displayed
in print is in reports of a Marine Board
inquiry.
“Saus”: In other times the captain was
very much the man in charge of his ship.
Remember an American skipper who,
just after the big raid, brought his ship
to Darwin with the aid of a school-atlas,
no suitable charts being aboard. “This
will do me,” he said. “For the first time
in my life I’ve really had charge of my
ship without the owners bellowing in my
earhole or having to report to them.
Now I can’t report” (wireless-silence
orders) “and they don’t know where I
am. Boy, is it any good! ”
“P.0.M.G.”: Present-day shipping-ads
omit ships’ captains’ names because (a)
modem costs demand brevity and (b)
clerks in company offices now relieve
masters of business-details handled by
old-time captains. Witness this notice,
front page, in “The Daily Register,”
London, Jan. 1, 1785:
SHIPPING ADVERTISEMENT
For NICE, GENOA & LEGHORN.
(With Liberty to touch at One
Port in the Channel)
The NANCY
Thomas White, Commander.
Burthen 169 tons, Guns and Men
Answerable.
Lying off The Tower, and will absolutely
depart on Sat. the Bth instant.
The said Commander to be spoken with at
Sam’s Coffee House, near the Customs
House; at Will’s Coffee House, in the Corn-
hill ; or at the Exchange house on the
French and Italian Walk, or
WILLIAM ELYARD
, No. 16 Savage Gardens.
BLESSINGS OF PROGRESS
The cavilling strictures
You hear aimed at pictures
Ignore some impressive improvements.
Let’s not be myopic !
The CinemaScopic
Film does make a difference to move-
ments.
Some see it as hateful ;
Yet for it I’m grateful,
For, when lurid luv detonates ’em,
The marathon kissing
I’m mercif’ly missing;
The shallow screen de capitates ’em.
Don’t call it a blunder,
That technical wonder
That’s come to the screen — Vista Vision.
The magnification
And accentuation
It gives won’t excite my derision.
The blues-singer groaning
In voice that needs honing
Is now an ordeal that’s diminished,
Ever since, interest mounting,
I tried this game: counting
Her teeth (if I can) ’ere she’s finished.
With sound-tracks increasing,
More noise they’re releasing;
It’s called, l think, Stereophonic.
Though spoiling your snoozing,
This great sound-diffusing
Is not, as you might think, demonic.
In case you don’t sight it
This puts you aright—it
Pinpoints where a banjoist’s strum-
ming ;
Or, in a crime-thriller,
Should you miss the killer
You’ll hear whence the bullets are
coming !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


slldldS
GOOD
Nl
pß £-*»« STR
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
“C.T.H.”: In addition to the two
graduates of the University of Queens-
land to be knighted (B. 11/4/’56), there’s
a third —Sir Robert Lowe Hall, now a
financial-adviser to the British Govern-
ment. Sir Robert Lowe Hall, Professor
H. C. Burton, of Canberra University,
and Dr. A. J. Foote, of Wickham Terrace,
Brisbane, were all Rhodes Scholars, and
they sat together in the sixth-form at
Ipswich Grammar School in 1918.
a 9
“Fons”: Major-General lan Ross
Campbell, C.8.E., D.S.O. and Bar, Com-
mandant of the Royal Military College,
Duntroon, commanded the 2/Ist Bn. in
Greece and Crete and was one of the
great leaders of that unlucky little war.
The Bar to his D.S.O. was for his d'efence
of the Retimo airstrip (the D.S.O. was
won in Libya); but he finished in the bag.
Promoted to Brigadier on release, he
commanded the Australian p.-0.-w. recep-
tion-depot in England, and commanded it
well. Thousands of newly-freed men
aren’t the easiest blokes to handle. One
day it’s legitimate and praiseworthy to
resist authority, the next day it’s not, and
a habit of years is hard to break. They
resent, most of all, anything approaching
IAN CAMPBELL
a shiny-pants attitude. They respected
lan Campbell.
He was a 1922-vintage Duntroon
graduate and Sword of Honor man. The
usual round of C.M.F. appointments,
broken by a year in India and a staff-
college course at Camberley, then A-
branch at Army H.Q., Melbourne. He
went to the Middle East as 16th Bde.
Brigade-Major, and was later Sixth
Divvy G. 5.0.2. Back in Australia in
1945, his successive appointments were
Deputy Adjutant-General, Director of
Military Training, and the dual post of
Commander of 1 Infantry Brigade Group
and Director of Infantry. For the last
couple of years of the Korean War he
was Administrative Commander of all
Australian troops in Japan and Korea,
and for this job collected the C.B.E.
He came back to Australia in 1953 to
become Commandant of the Staff
College, Queenscliff (Vic.), and a year
later took-over at Duntroon.
9 9
Cyril Glew is calling it a day after 50
years with the W.A. Education Depart-
ment and 12 years as Head of Perth
Boys’ High School.
9 9
Briefly in Sydney after a year’s United
Nations assignment in some dozen locust-
ridden countries, Eric B. Kraus, Snowy
Mountains Authority meteorologist.
Asked what use meteorology was in
locust-control, he explained: The area
affected extends from the Canary Islands
to India, and climatic conditions —rain,
for instance, in Saudi Arabia, and prevail-
ing winds —play a big part in control.
The same winds which blow the Arab
dhows from west to east in spring, back
again in winter, blow the locusts, too —
swarms have been seen 1500 miles out
at sea. The plague hast been going on
since 1949, so countries concerned have
something to worry about. Dr. Kraus,
born in Czechoslovakia.' was trained in
meteorology there and in Norway, served
for a time in the French Air Force in
War 11, and for longer with the R.A.F.,
pilot and squadron-leader. C.5.1.R.0.
recruited him as a research-officer after
the war. In 1947 he made the gloud-
seeding experiments over the Blue Moun-
tains—believed to have been the world’s
first. He’s also on an international panel
of experts concerned with world water-
resources : two Americans, a Frenchman,
an Israeli, a Belgian and an Australian —
not Government nominees, but scientists
selected on the basis of their specialised
skills.
9 9
Baptist elder cleric the Rev. Dr. F. W.
Boreham can still pack ’em in the aisles
at 85 whenever he is summoned out of
retirement to be guest-preacher at Mel-
bourne churches. Since retiring in 1928
he has- fulfilled many preaching engage-
ments, and has also written several books.
Regular articles by “F.W.8.” appear in
the weekly literary-supplement of a Mel-
bourne daily. Originally from England,
Dr. Boreham settled in Tasmania early
in the century after a few years’ minister-
ing in the South Island of New Zealand.
Then 10 years in Hobart, before trans-
ferring to the mainland to be pastor of a
large Melbourne suburban church. For
18 years following his retirement he con-
ducted weekly lunch-hour services at
Scots Church, drawing full houses ; many
of his “regulars” skipped or scoffed their
lunches to be in time for a good pew.
9 9
The first award of the University of
Pennsylvania’s bicentennial fellowship in
criminal law and administration to be
made outside the United States has come
to Ronald Darling Wilson, Assistant
Crown Prosecutor in Westralia. Wilson
flew on active service with the R.A.A.F.
during the Hitler disturbance, and did his
law-course after demobilisation. He
graduated with first-class honors in 1949,
was admitted to practice in 1951, and
appointed Assistant Crown Prosecutor
last year.
9 9
“Jaydee”: The death in Sydney, at 61,
of Arthur Charles White, senior area-
meteorologist at Kingsford Smith air-
port, broke what must have been a record
associated with aviation meteorology
One of the pioneers of the Australian
Meteorological Service, he organised the
met.-office at Mascot in 1937. When I
first encountered him in 1939 I was a
raw recruit to aviation-circles, but Arthur
gave me the same courteous helpfulness
that he extended to the most senior airline-
skipper. At that time a fibro hut housed
both Met. and Radio. Pilots collected
and discussed their weather-forecasts,
cracked a joke or two with Arthur White
and passed the time of'day with the radio-
man in the next room. A.N.A. and
A.O.A. were then separate organisations,
A.N.A. concentrating on services from
Sydney south, A.O.A. running services
north of Sydney. Nowadays the met.-
section occupies about eight times the
original area and teletypes and tele-
printers pour-in an endless stream of
weather-information for 24 hours a day.
As practical examiner, Arthur earned the
gratitude of scores of nervous examinees
who found that under his gentle probing
they knew more about met. than they
had feared. In his later, administrative,
job he had not the same personal contact
with crews that he had before, but all
pilots who were flying in and out of
Mascot up to a few years ago will
remember him and his usual greeting of
“Jolly fine day, old boy, what?” varied
slightly in conformity with the weather ;
and they will regret his passing.
9 9
An unusual honor for a politician, the
award of a gold-medallion and life-
membership of the Musicians’ Union, has
been conferred upon Charles Court, who
retains the Nedlands seat in the Westralian
Assembly, which he won for the first
time in 1953. A fair-haired, square-
shouldered 43, Court is a noted cornet-
player. Before he entered politics he was
bandmaster of the R.S.L. Memorial
Band. During World War II he wore
a captain’s pips in the A.I.F. In quieter
hours he is partner in a Perth firm of
accountants and director of several
companies.
9 ©
Sighted at Fremantle, Johannes
Kniper, who spent 25 of his 36 years’
service in the Royal Netherlands Navy
as a p.-t. instructor of Marines. During
his service he was for 12 years middle-
weight boxing-champion of Holland, a
champion swordsman and an outstand-
ing swimmer. His versatility in sport
earned him the gold-medal of the Dutch
Olympic Committee. Now awaiting con-
firmation from that committee of his
appointment as official masseur of the
Dutch Olympic team in Melbourne this
year, he intends to remain in Australia.
9 9
Now making his second tour of Aus-
tralia for the A.8.C., 29-year-old
Viennese pianist Paul Badura-Skoda is
already approaching the top rungs of the
virtuoso-ladder. Fresh in his approach
to his art, tremendously energetic, he is,
as well as a great interpretative artist, a
researcher of note; he and his wife —
herself a trained musicologist—collab-
orated in a book on the interpretation of
Mozart, in whose music Badura-Skoda
has always taken a special interest. At
the Musicians’ Benevolent Fund con-
cert in Sydney he conducted a Mozart
Concerto from the piano, thereby casting-
back 180 years and re-creating the com-
poser’s own method of conducting his
works.
Badura-Skoda began his serious
career at 16, studying with Professor
Viola Them and later attending Edwin
Fischer’s master-classes in Switzerland.
The concert-halls of Finland and South
America, Europe and Canada were soon
his stamping-grounds, and thereafter he
PAUL BADURA-SKODA
became a featured soloist at the Bach
Festival and the International and Salz-
burg Festivals. The reputation he estab-
lished then he has enhanced since during
four visits to the U.S. —a pointer to this
is the recording-list now to his credit.
He will notch 40 performances during
his current visit.
Jim Bridgland and Mac (christened
David) Brown learnt woolclassing to-
gether at East Sydney Tech. When War
II broke, Jim was studying wool in Eng-
land, Mac classing in Australia. Jim
joined the Royal Navy and saw a lot of
the North Atlantic and something of that
interesting borderland of Slav and Latin
history the Dalmatian coast, at an
interesting time. Mac was in the Middle
BROWN and BRIDGLAND
East with the Ninth Divvy’s 2/17th Bn.,
and later turned parachutist. They met
in Sydney on leave once, and talked-over
a scheme to work for themselves after
the war: not an uncommon war-time
conversation:
Advised against it, they started business
in 1946, repacking for brokers ; a few
years later they started the wool-pooling
side of their business.. They worked flat-
out when the wool came in, doing every-
thing themselves, and played ping-pong
between-times. Soon there was no time
for ping-pong, and they worked a seven-
day week. The office was run mainly
from the Imperial Service Club.
Thus the beginnings of Bridgland
Brown, Ltd. (“Jimac”), the concern
which has given Australia’s first Sheep
and Wool Scholarship. First winner was
announced in March. Another first is the
firm’s holiday-bonus scheme.
In their first year Bridgland and
Brown handled 232 bales of wool. Last
season the firm handled 35,000.
In short, a success-story. They’re
both 35.
• 9
Notched 90, Boxer Rebellion veteran
Jack Raymond, of Waterman’s Bay,
Perth, who also saw War I service in
France. He still enjoys pushing a lawn-
mower.
9 9
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 52, Dr. Harold Love, former
president of the Queensland branch of the
B. physician to in-patients at Brisbane
General Hospital and Repatriation Commission
consultant from 1947 to 1951, and chest-
physician at South Brisbane Auxiliary Hospital.
In War II he served as an M.O. in Tobruk,
England and the Pacific islands.
In Perth, at 77, James Arbuckle, for 25 years,
until he retired in 1952, director of the
vegetable-section of Perth Producers’ Markets;
a pioneer in that line in Perth’s metropolitan
area.
At Canonoque, Canada, at 53, Claude Evelyn
Wright. A native of Christchurch and a gradu-
ate of the New Zealand University, he went
to Canada in 1936, after New York experience
with General Electric. Last year he became
mayor of Canonoque. Chief of Canada’s
naval-gun production in Hitler’s war; M.B.E.
In Perth, at 47, John Dominic Palandri, well-
known city doctor and Army medical-officer
for the Perth district. Born in England, he
came to Westralia as a boy, attended Perth
C. and stroked the school’s Head of the
River crew in 1925. Served in the Middle East
with the 2/7th Field Ambulance, was captured
in Crete, and spent the rest of the war working
in Army hospitals in Greece and Germany.
M.I.D.
At Garden Island (W.A.), at 61, William
Nathan Gibson, late of Watheroo, old 28th
Battalion man who served again in the Second
A.I.F.


It?
to
AR -f
*£•
e 'G Gfr
NUiSaMCB
c aS' CALLg
a o ®
Tut
75 v* r
Pcf Z&U£ uS
~ys
'N°L'P^y-
_ C pfC« up
/WAT
°e
Tc> TH £ office
CHOICE OF TWO EVILS


ABORIGINALTIES
be that in time only old-timers
will recall tasting honey, for I read
that “royal-jelly,” dish of the embryo
queen-bee, is largely responsible for the
Pope’s life and welfare.
Bee-herders have attested the life-
extending qualities of this substance for
generations by quaffing it and living
unreasonably long lives.
Little, scientifically, is known of this
queen-bee’s food. In two countries, at
least, the substance is gathered and
marketed at astonishingly high rates. In
France * milady who wishes to be
beautiful and bewitching for ever is the
chief purchaser, and I’ve seen great
demand for it in American bee-
magazines.
As a result of the cure in Rome, a
world-demand could spring up overnight,
and beemen would welcome the further
string to their bows, for quite often bees
could be farmed for the jelly on condi-
tions too poor for honey- and wax-
surplus.
That it would be expensive goes without
saying, for each hive would produce
only a thimbleful or so over a short
period. Further, the hives would
produce it commercially only when they
were queenless or specially manipulated.
But producing the stuff in quantity would
cause fewer ulcers in beekeepers than
does chasing temperamental honey-flows
over washed-away tracks.
From the taste point it’s good, some-
thing like thick, scalded cream with a
“Were short of stocks tonight”
dash of lemon for flavoring. Mixed with
a hive-tool scrape of sealed-in-the-comb
honey, it’s right out of this world.
B-herd.
• * * *
; Dicky”: Apparently earth has some-
thing to do with the changing of color
of birds’ eggs, and not only with ground-
nesting birds. The peewee seems to have
the ability to vary its egg-color accord-
ing to the mud it uses for its nest, In my
old home-district (Booligal, N.S.W.) the
eggs were usually a pinky-grey, super-
imposed with blotchy markings of deep
reddish-brown and grey, with the grey
usually predominating. Here in the
Warren (N.S.W.) district, where the soil
is redder, the eggs I have seen have been
pinker and the reddish marks more
obvious than the grey.
* * * *
“Kate”: I’ve done my bad deed for
last Friday. Chester and Tommy, each
living in his own hut in our bit of
a township, aren’t as matey as two
Old Diggers ought to be. With
the temperature near the century-
mark, I was in our bigger town’s
main store buying groceries, and
overheard an order for a dozen of
beer to go out on the evening
train to Chester, so offered to take
the beer with me, saving Chester
train-freight. Duly delivered the
beer, icy-cold from a while in our
fridge, to Chester’s hut. How was
I to know that Tommy, to save
face with the chap he sometimes
worked for, had ordered the beer
in Chester’s name, and was, at the
time Chester was thanking me,
pacing the platform wondering
why the beer hadn’t come on the
train as arranged?
* * *
“Salmon Gums”: The old
notion that birds sing because
they’re happy has long been
scrapped. There are three main
reasons for bird-song: to establish
claim to a territory; to attract
or respond to a mate; and to
defend their territory against
invaders. There are other minor
reasons, such as flock-birds calling
to retain contact with each other,
mates calling information regard-
ing food, sentries uttering a
warning; but these calls are
usually distinct from the charac-
teristic song by which a bird is
recognised. In my south-Westralian
district now the magpies are warbling
their territory-song. When they’ve estab-
lished their title to the strip they claim —
it’s never really challenged—the song will
merge into the full-throated love-carols
which make one of the finest and sweetest
sounds in the Australian bush. These
carols will persist throughout the
breeding-season, and they’ll be heard
from the males while the females are busy
building the nests, and even occasionally
while both parents are feeding the young.
* * * *
“A.M.H.”: Bulletin mention of
current Wirths’ Circus turns brought one
back to mind from long-ago Quirindi
(N.S.W.). The clown came into the ring
hell-for-leather through the back entrance
with a big black pig barking at his heels.
A couple of times round the ring, then the
down dashed across to a stepladder
about Bft, high, which stood against the
big centre-post. At the top of the ladder
he turned and thumbed his nose at the
pig, which was then standing with its
front feet up on the ladder and had a
string in its mouth which was fastened
to the trigger of a pistol tied to the ladder
and pointing at the clown. The pistol
went off, and the clown turned a back-
’un onto the pig’s back, the pig turning
and trotting out of the tent, carrying the
clown with him.
*****
“B. A. Ker”: An expression used by
M. H. Ellis (B. 28/3/’56), that John
Macarthur’s fleeces had made his nephew
Hannibal’s look like “bricklayers’ hair,”
might need a little explanation these
days. The fraternity’s lack of tonsorial
immaculateness might appear to make
the simile apt, but the original meaning
hadn’t that intention. Before plaster-
sheets were evolved the practice was to
nail wooden laths to the joists, with
narrow spaces between. Mortar was
pressed up between these laths and
“Two beers , Miss , at the old rates.”
allowed to dry, forming a basis on to
which the next coat could be trowelled.
But to give the mortar a “knottiness”
which would make it cling around the
laths, cattle-hair was beaten into the
lime-and-sand mixture. In the old days
in England bricklayers were also
plasterers, so fellmongers sold their by-
product as “bricklayers’ hair.” All the
ceilings in our earlier buildings were
first-coated with hair-mortar, and it is
not unusual to find partition-walls in old
frame-cottages plastered in the same way.
,* * * *
“Saaedi”: The curled-leaf spider rolls
a pliable leaf into the shape of a cone
which she hangs—large, open end down
—near the centre of her web. She
ensconces herself inside, protected to some
extent from rain, wind and birds. The
crumpled leaf, hanging negligently in its
net, looks for all the world as if it has
been blown there by the wind; but not
all avians are deceived. I have seen a
striated-thornbill go the rounds of a series
of webs, tugging each dried leaf from the
web and prising' out the occupant with
its beak as one might a periwinkle from
its shell. This thombill is not always
triumphant in encounters with spiders;
I’ve seen one held fast in the web of a
garden spider, and imagine that the still
more powerful net of the bigger bloke
would constitute an even greater hazard
to the tiny fowl.
* * * *
“Marrick”: In my apprentice days
carpentry and joinery were all one trade
and everyone wore an apron, which had
to have a fringe at the bottom. I had
fair reason later to discard mine for
good. Was erecting guards around
machinery when my apron got caught
in a motor and was pulling me on to the
belt. I managed to undo it behind, but
I lived years before the tape snapped,
and the old trade tradition with it, for
my part. I thankfully got into overalls.
* * * *
“Dix”: Some 50 years back my dad
paid me five-bob a pound to pick
paspalum-seed during school holidays;
yet in this present time of high wages I
heard a broadcast news-item say that
schoolchildren on the N.S.W. southern
highlands were picking the seed in the
lunch-hour for sixpence a pound,
proceeds to go to some local fund. Those
kids must be enthusiasts for the fund. I
forget how many million seeds go to the
pound; but I seem to remember that it
took two of us nearly a week to earn
five-bob. Paspalum was something of a
luxury when we did our picking, but
today almost every local-government body
in the State would pay well for some
cheap and easy way of getting rid of it.
* w * *
“Culmina”: Talking of Air Force
nicknames (B. 25/4/’56), here are a few
I bumped into: “Jungle Jim,” an officer
who, long before we left for the north,
carried on as if we were in the thick of
the Kokoda Trail fighting; “The Legal
Eagle,” an LAC, older than most of his
mates, who had been a solicitor in civil
life “The Count,” a good-looking young
fellow—otherwise derivation unknown;
“Gruesome,” somehow appropriate to
him but bestowed mainly because his
surname also began with Gr; “Dulcie,”
an easygoing officer with a surname also
alliterative; “Pinhead,” another “six-
weeks wonder” ; “Sh r,” a Don Juan
type (actually most units and squadrons
possessed one so nicknamed); and “The
Screaming Skull,” a diminutive sergeant
wireless-instructor with a loud, high-
pitched rant.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Hands,” Lord Nuffield
is credited with saying, “are still the finest
machines.” It’s a nice thought, but things
get a bit involved when inventors equip
machines with hands. And that’s just
what they’ve done with the fowl-plucking
machine. The appliance consists of a
revolving cylinder to which are attached
72 rubber fingers. The operator holds the
defunct chook against the spinning fingers
as he would,a tool to a grindstone, and
the poultry becomes dressed —or un-
dressed. Half-an-hour’s practice and a
raw mug can denude two fowls a minute.
* * * *
CJIMPLY can’t agree with the notion
that most animals are color-blind.
If nags are, why is it my hack shies
and grows excited on spotting a white
horse or cow, when she ignores all other
colors? If dogs can’t tell the difference,
why does a sheep-pup stare unbelievably
and follow a black lamb through the
mob for a confirming sniff?
Cats, too, and cows are definitely color-
conscious. I have more than once seen
the old milker mistake the only 'Other
silver calf in the mob of reds for her
own until within sniffing-distance.
Sheep accustomed always to a Hack
dog will grow uneasy at file appearance
of a ginger mong. They recognise fox or
dingo far beyond scent-range, and the
ginger mong obviously arouses suspicions
by his color.
A fox, too, will spot the pied or light-
colored rabbit first in the brood on the
hillside; and if birds were not color-
conscious, Darwin’s theory of gorgeous
plumage by natural selection would fall
rather flat.
Further, after watching an old chook
sink her beak unerringly into the only red
tomato in the patch, you can’t tell me
those blighters don’t know!
BETCHA.
KOSCIUSKO
By day you are alone on the vast mountains:
they are dead, these weary shoulders of ruined
stone:
there is no sound here but the wind’s whisper
through the dry grass that shrouds the granite
bone.
Here, your words are thickened, your words sift
confused by the rasp of the wind, by the thin
grating
of straining grassroots: they fall back to silence
and the mountains ring around, humped,
brooding, waiting
for resurrection of the silent night
and the grave ritual of moon and stars,
while the wild torch of darkness heralds back
their ancient gods, in monstrous avatars.
Cloud-shadows march across the pallid snow-
drifts
and the wind rises with its hungry breath;
mist moves uneasily above the summits
as earth is resurrected from its death,
and there is evil here. Black shale and granite
frown down, press in, the stars are cold, and
soon
you see the bleached white fingers of the snow-
gums
claw hopelessly towards the hostile moon.
N.S.W.
ROBERT HUGHES.


THE last of the roadside wine-saloons
are hanging on precariously these
days in Victoria. Pulled into one the
other day where over 30 years ago there’d
be never less than a dozen horse-drawn
wagons pulled-up in front any time of
the day during the wheat-harvest. Now
motor-trucks do all the carting without
pause, and the cars roll away to the towns.
Mine host was the same man, I remem-
bered, but had gone to seed with his
establishment. “They haven’t closed you
up yet,” I remarked. “No,” he replied
sadly. “But I’ll be closin’ meself up
shortly. Me customer died last week.”
—“E.2.”
* * * *
“A.R.”: I sleep on a back-veranda,
and every night my rest is disturbed by
a noise resembling loud snoring coming
from near-by trees. Is there a bird that
snoozes with its mouth open?
* * * *
“Friar”; “Gravelsnatcher’s” mate who
shinned up a tree after a large goanna
(B. 28/3/’56) was luckier than the chap
I saw do it. The big go. jumped down
when given a poke with a stick, but
promptly shot up the same tree again.
This time it was my mate who jumped ;
and a broken ankle taught him that when
it comes to resilience the human frame
isn’t in it with that of the go.
* * * *
“Four Threes”: In driving a double-
header steam-train the idea is for the
leading loco, to have the first few puffs
to take-up coupling-slack. Old Crusty
was having trouble with a too-anxious
young driver on the banker, and the train
was running like a concertina instead of
smoothly, with taut couplings. So Crusty
took action. At the terminal the young
driver was worried: “That loco, of mine
played up bad. Slipped like hell every
time I came in steaming.” “Yeah!”
replied Crusty with mock concern, then
sagely advised, “Y’ musta come in steam-
ing too early.” The young driver walked
away mulling it over. Crusty wiped his
oilcan and gave a satisfied glance at the
convenient hole in the footplate, over the
rail. “A bit of oil is handy in lots of
ways,” he remarked to Bricky, his fire-
man, and drove home yet another point
in Bricky’s* apprenticeship.
' * * * *
“Kerba”: When a dog pokes his nose
into a small receptacle in search of tucker
and finds his head stuck panic sets in
immediately ; but even as he howls blue
murder he swipes at the object with a
paw and generally succeeds in freeing
himself. Felines act differently. Saw a
kitten push her head into a paper-bag
aftfer cake-crumbs; when she tried to
withdraw, the bag, having no weight to
hold it down, rested lightly on her neck.
Although the lightest brush with a paw
would have knocked the bag off, Puss
backed slowly round and round until we
stopped laughing and removed the
blackout.
* * * - *
“Bass”: Scientists, unlike “Bellfield”
(B. 4/4/’56), require greater support for
a theory than the word of a lone gipsy
relayed through a dog-fancier. The latest
Chambers's Encyclopedia states defi-
nitely: “The prevalent belief that the
European fox will cross with a dog is
not supported by an authentic case.” Not
one case—in spite of all the opportunity
for research and for the protagonists of
that theory to prove it! On the other
hand, it’s been established beyond doubt
that the dingo will cross with the domestic
dog and the progeny is fertile. The exact
origin of the kelpie may be debatable,
but in the complete absence of proof the
fox-ancestry theory can be ruled out;
and, as far as can be ascertained, the cross
is as I stated —dingo-collie.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Camels came to W.A. from
India and Pakistan, and they came in
hundreds, with their Afghan drivers.
When motor-transport put them out of
business the beasts were turned loose to
forage for themselves. They thrived to
become a major pest; but they’ve left
one worth-while heritage. One of the
finest fodder-grasses in the north —buffel-
grass —came in with some camel-food
from Asia, landed at a north-west port.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: As well as the presumably
“Christian” arrowroots —“English arrow-
root” from potatoes and “Portland
arrowroot” from Arum maculatum —
there are the original “West Indian arrow-
root,” the rhizomes of which were cut
and applied to arrow-wounds to absorb
the poison; “Brazilian arrowroot”
(tapioca flour); “East Indian arrowroot”;
“Chinese arrowroot”; and “Tahitian
arrowroot” —all from plants of different
genera. The arrowroot grown in Queens-
land, Canna edulis, is, in its unprocessed
state, largely used as stock-food. Flour
from any of them, mixed to a, smooth
paste with cold water and boiled for a
few minutes with milk, makes a quick
(“hasty”) pudding, which may also be
made from cereal flour —Great-grandma’s
“shape,” or more genteel “blancmange.”
* * * *
“Motuku”: As an Aboite lately noted,
gannets are certainly miscalled “boobies”
when it comes to their fishing. With
perfect control of their 6ft. wing-spread
they glide, bank and wheel 60ft. or so
above the surface, beneath which the
light, sandy patches on the little reef are
all darkened by a large school of tailor
feeding on deep-swimming pilchards.
There is a constant rain of birds peeling-
“ Dave—are you SURE you fixed these twin-beds the right Way?”
off like dive-bombing planes as, with out-
spread wings they shoot down at an
angle never more than 30 degrees from
the vertical. Nearing the water the wings
fold back and the live spear-headed
missiles drop like bombs. A vertical
column of spray shoots up 6ft. or more
as a bird disappears, to reappear a few
seconds later, rising and falling on the
swell. A little later there is a quick beat
of wings, an easy take-off and up it
zooms to repeat the performance. Water
"No, sir , We do NOT stock Hopalong Cassidy horseshoe tiepins.”
up the nose does not trouble it: a special
valve takes care of that. A “movie” of
American shows the same
technique, but their clumsy-looking
bodies, their wide, zigzag wings and their
enormous bills, and the terrific splash
with which they hit the water make them
look like grotesque monsters of a Disney
cartoon compared with the graceful
gannets.
**\ * *
“Birdwatcher”: Intrigued by a black-
bird which has the chore of feeding an
almost full-grown thrush. Blackie nudges
the thrush, then puts the food into its
beak. If the blackbird goes away the
thrush stands and chirps imperious de-
mands for its tucker. One can understand
a bird feeding one of its own kind, but
not what appears to be bondage on the
part of a bird of one species to that of
another.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Experiments seem to
show that meteor-dust plays a big part
in producing rain. The theory is feasible,
because, however saturated the air may
be, rain is unlikely to fall unless there
are dust-particles there. The dust provides
surfaces on which the water-vapor can
condense to form the initial droplets
which are an essential prelude to rain;
if one type of dust is a better rain-
producer than another it’s because it
offers a better surface for condensation,
just as dew forms more readily on glass
than on, say, hessian. There’s strong
support for the theory that heavy showers
of meteor-dust occur on specific dates each
year. Pursuing that theory, it’s suggested
that rainfall is greater a certain number
of days —possibly 30 —after a heavy fall
of dust; and if that’s right there may be
some way of introducing meteor-dust into
cloud-seeding operations. The stuff may
have to be collected. It would be difficult
to duplicate an article manufactured in
outer space from possibly foreign
material.
* * * #
“Sister Ellell”: Possibly a false im-
pression, but I always thought “picca-
ninny” an aboriginal term. Called to
revive a fainting lady (and a quick look
told me she should have been in the
Stork’s queue, not the one at the
butcher’s), I offered her some mixture.
She viewed it with suspicion, so I said,
“It will do you good.” Not much im-
pressed, she replied, with careful Italian
accent, “Hurt piccanin’?”
* * * *
“Kelms”: They’ll soon be mining a
beach near Capel (W.A.) for rutile—with
zircon, monazite and ilmenite thrown in.
Umenite and rutile yield titanium, mis-
takenly being called a “new” metal: it’s
been known for 150 years and used for
the best part of 50. Point is, it’s being
put to new uses. It was formerly used to
replace whitelead in paints—it produces
the finest white pigment known to mdus-
try—and it helps in the production ot
rubber and linoleum, with some uses in
ceramics as a glaze and in dentistry to
give natural color to false-teeth. But
these uses are limited, and even when it
was found useful in smoke-screens tfte
demand didn’t put any great strain on
supplies. That happened when its value
in steels became apparent. It s probably
now going into jet-engines and atomic-
plants.
“X.S.”: Nobody liked the look of our
new policeman; a very forbidding cop.
Mad Mick, our metho-drinker, having
been refused service at the hotel, went
to the police-station to make indignant
protest. The new constable came out,
eyed him up and down, said, “You’re
looking pretty crook, Mick. Here’s some-
thing that will do you good,” and handed
him a bottle of wine. The same police-
man said to the doctor, “I see, Doctor,
you’ve just got a load of firewood. You
must be pretty busy with all this gastro-
enteritis amongst the schoolkids, so I’ll
stack it in the woodshed for you.” So
now it’s risky for strangers to make
slighting remarks about our cop.
* * * *
FURTHER to “Kerba’s” par. (B.
28/3/’56) on the Memorial Hospital
at Berry (N.S.W.).
Alexander Berry, a Scottish surgeon,
and his brother-in-law and partner,
Wollstonecraft, emigrated to Australia in
1819. Wollstonecraft received a grant of
500 acres on the North Shore (Sydney),
which he named Crow’s Nest. Berry
received 10,000 acres in the Shoalhaven
district, and built his home there, on
the seaward side of Mt. Coolangatta.
A condition of the grant was that he
should care for 100 convicts.
After Wollstonecraft died in 1832
Alexander persuaded his brothers David
and John to come from Scotland to
manage the Coolangatta (Shoalhaven)
estate. He then retired and lived at
Crow’s Nest and served on the Legisla-
tive Council. He died in 1873.
Control of the estate seems then to
have passed into the hands of David
Berry, and among the many bequests in
David’s will was one of £lOO,OOO for the
building of a hospital. The wooden
building that was the first hospital still
stands on the bank of Broughton Creek,
near the bridge. The trustees soon found
that the task of running a hospital was
too great, and they offered the Govern-
ment the £lOO,OOO, part in cash and part
in the form of some of the land at
Crow’s Nest.
The Government erected the present
building—the David Berry Memorial
Hospital—on the 43 acres made available
for the purpose. By special Act of Parlia-
ment the Government undertook its con-
trol, maintenance and management. As
the hospital cost only a fraction of the
£lOO,OOO, the Government must have
shown a good profit.
The Berry Estate also provided land
for an experimental-farm (now used for
the training of State wards and part for
the A.I. Centre), a showground with
suitable buildings, parks, and land for
some of the churches. The name of
Broughton Creek was changed to Berry
by the citizens to show their appreciation
of the generosity of the Berry family.
The old homestead was destroyed by
fire, but the out-buildings, public-hall,
etc., are still worth a visit.
D. Ex. F.
FARMYARD PLAY
Scene: a north-coast farmyard,
Backdrop of bright blue,
Cornfields in the distance,
A mango-tree or two;
Pied magpies fluting,
Flying overhead —
And gay Shameema dancing
Near the milking-shed.
Sound a distant fanfare.
Beat upon the drums.
From the next-door paddock
The tall dark hero comes ;
Not in shining armor,
No prince of Araby,
Just shy Faizel standing
Beneath a mango-tree.
Shameema turns and sees him,
Lowers merry eyes;
Faizel, shy, embarrassed,
Stares up at the skies.
Shameema dances onwards
Tossing gleaming plait;
Faizel, remembering,
Snatches off his hat.
Shameema smiles at Faizel,
Beckons him to dance;
Faizel, the solemn one,
Stands there in a trance.
Shameema pouts annoyance,
Does not understand;
Faizel, dropping caution,
Runs up and takes her hand.
They twist and twirl together,
Her yellow skirt swings wide;
They clap and stamp together,
His big boots slip and slide;
And here we’ll drop the curtain
Ending of scene one:
Faizel and Shameema
Dancing in the sun.
N.S.W.
MENA KASHMIRI ABOULIAH.


Ihe Ima exjwbiencc Immiulqe
omA niodeAn, WiliiieJ e| tki4 6a4tk..
COM?®®'
Of*
*sol
rrrr
11111
II
s :
m
ms
ras
ahe jeaAed to the needs
OF INDUSTRY and COMMERCE
There are many ways in which the service
departments of this Bank can help its customers,
whether their accounts be large or small.
Service is a tradition with officers of this Bank
and the accumulated experience of the past makes
their advice the more valuable to-day.
sa*i
ft
At Head Office, or at our branch nearest
to you, our officers will be glad to discuss
how the Bank, with its modern facilities and
services, can help you.
THE
MMERCI
SYHEY
OF
ESTA to
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
NKIVO COMPANY
♦ iH
«»s
m
Advance booking essential
Australia's largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
THE SEARCH FOR MINES
( Continued )
By A. G. PALMER, B.E., A.M. Aus. I.M.M.
Deposits Worth Investigation
Apart from minerals with
newly-assumed economic impor-
tance, the truly virgin outcrop is
now extremely rare in Australia.
During the last 100 years the
country has been well scoured
by numerous and active pros-
pectors who have long since
found most of the obvious
mineral-deposits. In conse-
quence, the majority of prospects
offering today are either old
mining-fields or partly-explored
deposits rejected by earlier
investigators. In such prospects
the problem presented may be
one of finding more ore, or,
alternatively, one of knowing
what to do with a mineral-con-
centration whose existence has
already been established.
A mine may be closed down
for a variety of reasons, which
include:
(1) Exhaustion of known ore-
reserves.
(2) A change pf mineralisation with
depth which introduces mining
and metallurgical difficulties.
(3) Low metal and mineral prices.
(4) Prohibitive depth.
15) Premature abandonment.
(6) Inundation by water.
(7) Bad management.
(8) An industrial dispute.
(9) An adverse political situation*.
A prospect is generally rejected
because of:
(1) Lack of ore.
(2) A geological environment not
considered to be favorable for
economic mineralisation.
(3) An excessive vendor’s considera-
tion.
(4) Complex mineralisation not
amenable to normal treatment
methods.
(5) Inaccessibility.
(6) Low metal or mineral prices.
Fortunately, with the passing
of time, many of the issues
deterring the investigation of old
mines and prospects become
automatically solved. New min-
ing and metallurgical techniques,
better communications, improved
geological thinking and firmer
mineral prices are all factors
which can transform an uninspir-
ing mess of old workings or an
outcrop of mineral-bearing rock
into an attractive prospect.
Mineral deposits worth investi-
gation include :
(1) Placers.
(2) Old mines abandoned because
of metallurgical difficulties.
(3) Deposits amenable to group-
operation.
(4) Mining-fields with ore-extension
or repetition prospects.
(5) Large, low-grade deposits.
(6) Non-metallics.
Placer-deposits are formed by
the erosion and decomposition
of rocks containing valuable
minerals followed by transpor-
tation and concentration of the
mineral components by water-
and /or wind-action. Relatively
few minerals having high
specific-gravities and resistance
to weathering can form commer-
cial placers. Minerals lacking
these qualities are rapidly
broken-down and scattered with-
out concentration. The chief
economic placer minerals are:
gold, platinum, gemstones, cas-
siterite, zircon, rutile, ilmenite,
monazite, and tantalite.
Placers concentrated by
stream- or wave-action (allu-
vials) may occur in creeks, rivers,
and along beaches. Beach-
■t deposits are often dispersed and
re-concentrated elsewhere as
’low-grade disseminations. Under
suitable conditions, placers can
form very extensive concentra-
tions amenable to simple testing
methods and large-scale exploi-
tation. Provided the work of
testing and valuation has been
competently performed, a placer
enterprise is one of the safest
forms of mining investment.
Although most of our obvious
placers have been found and
exploited, there are still a few
attractive regions worth investi-
gating. Some of these may reveal
areas suitable for large-scale
dredging operations.
A not uncommon prospect is
the old mine abandoned because
of metallurgical difficulties in-
troduced by a change of miner-
alisation in depth. Such a tran-
sition may be quite abrupt.
Some mines ceased production
almost overnight when amen-
able secondary ores of simple
composition formed by weather-
ing near the surface gave way
to refractory primary-minerali-
sation below ground-water level.
Throughout the world, idle
mines of this sort have been re-
juvenated by the advent of some
new metallurgical process. Re-
sumption of productive opera-
tions at the Lake George mine
at Captain’s Flat, N.S.W., in
1937, after a lapse of nearly 40
years, was only made possible by
the development of differential
flotation.
In various parts of Australia
there are mineralised provinces
which contain numerous small
deposits having similar mineral
composition. Although indi-
vidually unattractive, collectively
the deposits might contain an
amortisation-tonnage if operated
on a group basis. Under group-
working, operations are con-
trolled by one organisation and
ore or crude concentrate won
from single deposits is conveyed
“O.K. , boys, I'll talk —‘Once upon a time there Was
a lovely princess ...”
to a conveniently situated com-
mon mill for final concentration.
Successful application of
group-methods is subject to the
acquisition and consolidation of
mining-rights on reasonable
terms —sometimes a difficult
task. Few companies will build
an expensive mill when they lack
control over their sources of ore
unless the field is large, well-
established and has an assured
future. The Tennant Creek field
in the Northern Territory
would probably have been a
highly profitable mining enter-
prise under group-operation.
As accessible and relatively
high-grade deposits approach ex-
haustion, mining will become in-
creasingly concerned with the
exploitation of hidden ore-
deposits and very low-grade
mineral segregations. In the
search for non-outcropping ore,
present exploration techniques
limit us principally to known
mining-fields having prospects
of extensions beyond known ore-
limits and where something is
known of the habits of ore-
deposition. No doubt as tech-
niques improve exploration will
be extended to deeper horizons
and less-obviously mineralised
regions. Because of the risk-
element and the tremendously
heavy costs involved, deep
ore-search is best left to Govern-
ment organisations or to com-
panies financed with large sup-
plies of highly speculative
capital."
Astonishing developments in
heavy-earthmoving and precon-
centration techniques during the
last 20 years have revolutionised
large, low-grade mining-opera-
tions in other parts of the world.
In the base-metal field the adop-
tion of these techniques to ore-
bodies amenable to their appli-
cation has produced remarkable
results. There are numerous
lead-mines in America and the
Continent profitably exploiting
ores containing 1-2 p.c. lead on
a high-production basis.
Although local conditions
would preclude us from working
ore of this grade on a similar
basis, we should be able to
exploit p.c. ore profitably.
Obviously there is plenty of
scope in the search for mines of
tMs category since our lowest-
grade producer of note is at pre-
sent handling 6 p.c. lead-ore by
conventional methods. How-
? ver » our ias , to . wa , r^s , r ! or . es
1S confined to lead-deposits,
venture to say that almost
every known mineral-field, how-
ever unattractive from the high-
grade aspect, could stand re-
examination as a potential
source of low-grade deposits re-
sponsive to modern mining
techniques,
Though lacking the allure of
metalliferous deposits, there can
be good profits in the mining of
non-metallic minerals and rocks,
Such deposits often form very
regular bodies amenable to cheap
testing and mining. The capital-
investment required for develop-
nient is generally small and the
risk-element low compared with
most forms of metalliferous
mining.
The chief fault with many
non-metallics is their inability
to stand high freights because
they can’t be directly concen-
trated to a high-priced product,
As a result, exploitation is re-
stricted to accessible deposits
handy to markets. Since export
is usually out of the question,
production is governed by local
consumption, which may be
quite small,
However, present limitations
should not deter the search for
this class of deposit. With the
prospect of vigorous industrial
expansion and a rising local
demand for mineral products,
before us, non-metallic minerals
have an attractive long-term
future,
Taxation and Mine-search
The following important pro-
visions of the Commonwealth
Income Tax and Assessment Act
relating to companies have been
introduced to encourage pro-
specting and the development of
(Continued on page 34)


Wise investors have already bought
£1,250,000
in
General Credits Ltd.
HH Ist mortgage debenture stock g
General Credits Ltd. is sponsored by the
Automobile Fire and General Insurance
Company of Australia Limited.
Directors : Sir John Newman-Morris, C.M.G.
(Chairman), J. M. Ford, V. H. Stanley-Low,
(Managing), E. W. Cox, John Glen, Eric
Hughes, J. F. Hughes, F. G. Menzies, C.B.E.
Commencing at 3J% p.a. over 3 months, General Credits Ltd.
offers interest ranging up to 7% p.a. for periods of 5 years
and over. Interest is paid quarterly free of exchange. Cumu-
lative-Stock carrying 6|% compounded on yearly rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus is available at all
branches of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia,
Members of the Stock Exchange or offices of the company.
Underwriters : J. B. WERE & SON
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe for the debenture stock
mentioned herein.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Bitablished 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N* E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In ail States Agencies In all Country Centres
. 9 ;&£■
■> ; w.
Fuitti In tfte
Future
Today is Anzac Day—a day draped with
memories for those of us who have served in war
and marched with our comrades each 25th April,
a day in which pride and sorrow and thankfulness
are mingled in the corporate spirit of the Australian
people.
As a national day it is something quite apart.
For while it primarily commemorates the landing
of Australian and New Zealand forces at Gallipoli,
its significance stretches backward and forward in
time, to take in the heroism of all the men and
women who have died defending our country.
I have often thought, on successive Anzac
Days, how nobly and with what slender resources
the men of the 1914-18 War carried Australia’s
name to the world.
When that war came we were only in our 14th
year as a Federation. The new Commonwealth had
had to build a unified defence system from the very
foundation.
The total military strength of the six separate
States at the end of 1900 was 27,350 volunteers,
exclusive of cadets and reservists. But between
1914 and 1918 out of a total population of fewer
than s,ooo,ooo—little more than half the numbers
we have today—4l6,Bo9 men came voluntarily to
the colours and gave Australia its warrior fame.
They set the tradition that younger men were
to honour so well in the Second World War and
in Korea.
All this we remember today, in Divine services
and in the parade of veterans. To all this we pay
homage at memorials —some of unlettered stone —
where each heart will write its own inscription.
But memory is for more than a day. Most of
these men were young. They gave, along with their
years, the hopes and joys that were the expected
rights of their youth.
And I believe that the best tribute we can
pay them now is in the most devoted, living service
we can give to the country for which they died.
April 25th.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
IF the Monetary Commission’s
500-page report had done no
more than again authoritatively
discredit Social Credit, which
gained 11 per cent, of votes at
the last elections, it would have
more than justified its existence.
The commission found that
Social Credit witnesses had pre-
sented a distorted picture of the
present state of the economy,
that their analysis of the existing
money-system was falsely based
and seriously erroneous, and
that their proposals would pro-
duce most serious and chronic
inflation and gravely disrupt
New Zealand’s economy.
But the commission did much
more. Though it found that no
radical reform of the existing
monetary-, banking- and credit-
systems is necessary, it did not
hesitate to criticise the Govern-
ment, the Reserve Bank and the
trading-banks where it found
criticism needed. It said that
the authorities had permitted
spending to expand unduly and
that too much reliance had been
placed on restriction of bank-
advances with insufficient atten-
tion to other measures.
The past policy of cheap
money was unfitted to today’s
conditions, the commission said.
The ultimate objective should be
the complete freeing of rates
from control. It noted recent
rises in interest-rates, but did not
indicate whether it considered
that they were sufficient. It did,
however, recommend an immedi-
ate increase in saving-bank
deposit-rates as an incentive to
thrift.
“The final decision in major
questions of economic policy
rests with the people themselves
lf the community is to rely
on the Government to guide the
economy toward the objectives
of stability, productivity and
security, it must be prepared to
accept necessary measures, which
will,, in the short run, adversely
affect some individuals and
interest-groups.”
The commission was referring
in particular to the need for
public acceptance of temporar-
ily-unpalatable budgetary- and
monetary - policies, such as
higher taxation and credit-
restriction, designed to reduce
inflationary pressures. But its
words appear equally valid in
other spheres, insofar as they
draw attention to ultimate
individual responsibility for
national prosperity.
There is at every point of time
a limit to the amount which any
country can produce or can obtain
by overseas trade for distribution
among its citizens. This limit can-
not be escaped by any manipulation
of the monetary-, banking- and
credit-systems, but only by increasing
the proportion of workers, improving
the quality of the labor-force, making
better use of natural resources,
increasing the quantity and quality of
the country’s capital, or by an
improvement in the terms on which
goods and services are exchanged
with other countries.
It is plain that the commission
sees inflation as New Zealand’s
primary economic problem. And
it says: “The best remedy for
inflation is a higher level of pro-
duction of consumer-goods and
services, provided it can be
achieved without a dispropor-
tionate expansion of income
such as occurs when there is a
general increase in overtime at
higher penal-rates of pay.”
Discussing productivity, the
report says: “Without making
any allowance for sickness or
absenteeism, but taking account
of holidays and rest-intervals
during the day, actual hours of
work at ordinary rates of pay
probably do not exceed 35f a
week. There has been a con-
siderable reduction in the pro-
portion of males actively en-
gaged after 65 years of age, as
shown by these census figures:
1936, 40 per cent.; 1945, 30.7 per
cent; 1951, 26.5 per cent.
“Overall productivity has
increased considerably since
1936, but part of this increase
has been achieved by working
considerable overtime at penal
rates of pay, which has added to
costs. There has been no
attempt at the extensive use of
shift-work. Since 1949 the index
of productivity per head of total
population has been static,
despite extensions to factories,
installation of new machinery
and recent notable expansion of
agricultural and pastoral
activities.”
Overseas Reserves
The Government is not satis-
fied with the rate of recovery of
New Zealand’s overseas reserves,
the Minister of Finance told
the House of Representatives
recently. This is not surprising.
Between the end of the year and
March 21 reserves recovered by
£22.6 million to £87.4 million.
But they were still £7 million
less than a year before; £41.4
million less than two years
before.
Overseas-reserves always rise
during the first six months of
the year, when the bulk of New
Zealand’s farm-produce is being
sold. This year the rate of
recovery has been better than
usual. It has been boosted by
sales of a big volume of farm-
produce at high prices. But now
prices have begun to fall. Wool,
meat and butter are all worth
less than at this time last year.
Prices may go lower yet.
Though farm-production is
well up, volume of sales will fall
away after June ; most of the
season’s output will be sold by
then. Meantime imports are
still too high. In February
private imports alone were £17.2
million, only £330,000 lower
than in February, 1955. In
January they were £20.2 million,
£144,000 more than in January,
1955.
What will happen during the
lean-income period from July to
December? Finance Minister
Watts says that imports must
and will be reduced by from £2
million to £3 million a month.
He has made it plain that the
Government will not go back to
direct import-control except as a
last resort. He maintains that
direct control would not cure
inflation but would merely
suppress one symptom of it.
Bank overdrafts, which help
to make excessive spending pos-
sible, are still too high. At £lB5
million on March 21 advances
were only £l.l million lower
than a year before, £39.3 million
higher than two years before, in
spite of the credit-squeeze. The
Government will tighten the
credit-squeeze and may, in view
of the monetary commission’s
recommendations, reinforce it
by higher taxation.
The trading-banks’ reserve-
ratios, temporarily reduced to
ease the pressure over the
income-tax period, were lifted
again on April 23. The demand-
liabilities ratio went up from 7
per cent, to 20 per cent., the
time-liabilities ratio remaining
at 3 per cent, meantime. Further
increases can be expected soon.
Before February 29 the ratios
were 26 per cent, of demand-
liabilities and 1% per cent, of
time-liabilities.
Many persons, who dislike
direct control because of the
distortions which it introduces
into the economy, are not satis-
fied that the credit-squeeze offers
the complete alternative, and in
this they now have the support
of the monetary commission.
Shops are displaying an abund-
ance of luxury-goods, which the
individual may be able to afford,
but which the country as a whole
obviously cannot. A prohibitive
sales-tax on luxury-goods might
help. It would leave basic free-
dom untouched, but would
reduce current demand for things
which could well be done with-
out. It would cut waste of funds
overseas and waste of labor,
capital and materials at home.
In the end a nation cannot
spend more than the equivalent
of what it produces. It is the
level of production which deter-
mines the level of national pros-
perity, just as the level of a
man’s earnings determines his
standard of living. No political
or financial juggling can alter
that.
True, production is rising.
With more population and more
use of machinery it could hardly
fail to do so. But it seems evident
that better organisation and more
effort within the 40-hour week
could still add substantially to
the nation’s output without
creating any hardship.
New Zealand today wants
more than it is prepared to work
for. Labor should recognise
that. But management must
accept ultimate responsibility.
There is too much of the cost-
plus-profit idea; too little
encouragement of individual
skill, initiative and effort.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
York Motors (Hold’g), Ltd. (Syd.)
TPHE stinging increase in sales-tax from
16.6 p.c. to 30 p.c. on passenger
motor-vehicles, the extra Is. in the £
added to the tax, on co. profits, the
tightening of credit generally, the pros-
pective growth of competition in the car
trade and its possible effect upon profit-
margins, as well as the slip of £61,734 in
the latest declared profit of the York
group, and an anaemic sharemarket, all
contributed to the drop in the price of
this holding co.’s f.-p. ss. shares from 18s.
to 15s. 9d. over the last month or so.
The return at 15s. 9d. would be 9.5 p.c.
so long as the 30 p.c. distribution con-
tinues —5 p.c. of it is labelled bonus —or
a wink under 8 p.c. on a 25 p.c. div. Net
tangible coyer (book-value) is 21s. 4d.
The slip in declared profit was due
mainly to reorganisation of the Nuffield
(Morris) franchises in N. S. Wales, where
York lost the country and half the metro-
politan franchises —the other half passed
to Peter Lloyd Industries —and acquired
half the city franchises for Riley and
Wolseley cars. Two new offshoots —
Lancaster Motors Pty. and Rose Motors
Pty.—were formed to handle Morris,
Riley and Wolseley cars and Nuffield
tractors in the Sydney and Parramatta
areas respectively. Two other subsidiaries
—York Motors Pty. and Dominion
Motors Pty.—hold franchises covering
the whole of N. S. Wales for Chrysler,
Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Singer, Studebaker,
Willys and Simca cars and Fargo trucks.
Marketing of the new Simca car (a French
product which is expected to make a
worth-while contribution to the current
term’s earnings) didn’t begin until
toward the close of last accounts.
Another development expected to make
a handy contribution to future profits is
that hire-purchase transactions of the
group have now been made a family
matter in N. S. Wales, where it has been
undertaken by Glasgow Investments Pty.,
a former non-operating subsidiary, whose
outstandings at November 30 last
exceeded £1,500,000.
York’s Queensland franchises, which
have not been disturbed, are handled by
two other offshoots —U.K. Motors Pty.,
which distributes Austin cars and trucks,
and Dominions Motors (Q.) Pty., which
trades in Willys cars and commercial
vehicles and Oliver tractors and agricul-
tural machinery, etc.
York doesn’t broadcast details of its
vehicle sales, but whatever it lost in one
way it picked up in another last term.
Gross trading profit, etc. (£1,807,150), was
£10,621 stronger. But the expense
inseparable from the reorganisation out-
lined above added £101,918 to administra-
tive charges, etc. (£1,128,024). There was
a saving of £29,563 in the allowance for
taxation (£238,496), which was equaL to
a shade over 7s. in the £. The net result
was thus £440,630 (down £61,734):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit, f- —Dividends—— N serves. serves.*
1950. .995,569 25 p.c. = 149,000 846,569 1,265,474
Added intangibles, £1430 .. .. 1,264,044
1951. .929,256 30 p.c. = 204,000 725,256 1,989,300
To staff fund, .. .. 1,969,300
Less net adjustments, £4B .. .. 1,969,252
1952. .480,521 30 p.c. = 223,833 256,688 2,225,940
Add net adjustments, £689 .. .. 2,226,629
1953. .413,100 30 p.c. = 212,000 141,100 2,367,729
1954. .502,364 30 „ ~ 272,000 230,364 2,598,093
From stock reserve, £200,000 .. 2,798,093
1955.. 440,630 30 p.c. = 168,630 2,966,723
* After deducting intangibles, written out of
. accounts in 1953.
The £440,630 was 48.6 p.c. on capital as
against 55.4, 45.5, 53, 136.7 and 146.4
p.c. back to 1950. The lushness of those
ratios is due partly to the size of
reserves —£2,060,057 in excess of paid
capital at November 30 last. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was 11.3 p.c.,
which is not excessive. Allowing Bs. in
the £ for taxation, last term’s profit
would be £407,476 (44.9 p.c. on capital),
which covered the 30 p.c. distribution
approximately \\ times. The transfer of
an inner stock reserve of £200,000 to
general reserves can be taken as an expres-
sion of the board’s confidence in the
outlook for the business.
The co.’s entry into the hire-purchase
field sent total assets up by £1,272,456
net:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £906,666 £906,666 £906,666
Reserves .. .. 2,367,729 2,598,093 2,906,723
Overdraft .. 164,578
Notes, etc. ~ 617,493
Creditors, etc. .. 1,023,683 706,000 708,304
Unearned income 3,059 154,025
Tax provision . . 223,746 268,763 237,248
Staff fund .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
£4,546,824 £4,507,581 £5,780,037
Freeholds, etc. .. 596,865 584,087 606,240
Plant .. .. 158,983 161,302 201,830
Stocks .. .. 2,452,528 1,931,408 2,501,671
Debtors .. .. 1,007,319 1,223,914 812,823
H.-p. accounts .. 21,808 1,584,577
Investments .. 68,177 68,177 71,136
Cash .. .. 262,952 516,885 1,760
£4,546,824 £4,507,581 £5,780,037
To meet the extra £1,562,769 put out
under h.-p. contracts, carry £570,263 more
stocks—£2oo,ooo of this increase was due
to disclosure of inner reserves and the
balance mainly to new Simca cars —and
add £62,681 to fixed assets, the co. raised
£617,493 on unsecured 6| p.c. notes, went
to its bankers for £164,578, increased the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
by £368,630 and drew upon cash for
£515,125. The reduction of £411,091 in
debtors’ balances mainly reflects the divi-
sion of the Morris franchise mentioned
above. The more-or-less liquid surplus,
or working capital (£3,065,319), increased
by £305,949.
Coote & Jorgensen, Ltd.
TO help finance what was originally a
A laudable, but has since proved an over-
ambitious, programme of development,
shareholders put up £1,213,000 of fresh
ord. capital during the two years to mid-
-1952, raising paid capital to £1,633,000
in 20,000 7 p.c. and 100,000 5 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 1,513,000 ords., all of £1 each.
The ords. had enjoyed a run of 10 p.c.
divs. for the nine years to 1950, followed
by 8 p.c. and 4 p.c. Then losses totalling
£802,088 showed up for the three years
to June 30, 1955, when £562,238 of the
capital (7s. sd. per ,ord. share) was
unrepresented by tangibles in the books,
whereas three years earlier shareholders
could see the whole of their capital intact
and £177,166 besides. Meanwhile, the
co. piled-up an overdraft of £2,949,673.
Obviously the position of shareholders
is an unenviable one; and it is difficult
to say at the moment what the future
holds for them. Much will depend upon
whether the management is able to induce
the Borg-Warner Corp. (U.S.), one of the
world’s largest manufacturers of motor-
vehicle transmission equipment, to be-
come financially interested in the venture,
and upon what terms. The two most
encouraging features at the moment are
chairman B. O. Smith’s expression of
“some confidence that the shareholders’
investment will eventually be justified by
results,” and the board’s advice “that
shareholders should retain their holdings
at this stage.” The f.-p. £1 shares, which
fetched 15s. 3d. a year ago, are now
priced at Bs. 6d, Net tangible cover
(book-value) was 12s. 7d. at June 30
last.
Here is the picture as the p.-and-l.
accounts, etc., show it over the last
four years:
r- 1 — Dividends
r- 1 - Pref.—, Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. Ords. serves.*
£>£/£> £ £>
1952.101,946 1400 5000 4 p.c. = 30,000 167,363
Tax overprovided, £10,303 .. .. 177,166
Loss.
1953.134,122 1400 5000 Nil 37,144
Profit sale assets, £68,584 .. .. 105,728
Deficit.*
1954.129,975 Nil Nil Nil 24,247
1955.537,991 Nil Nil Nil 562,238
* After deducting intangibles, now £57,885.
Since 1949 the co. has spent approxi-
mately £3,000,000 on the erection of
buildings and installation of plant cap-
able of producing a substantial portion
of the motor-vehicle and tractor-trans-
mission assemblies used in Australia.
This was done during a period of steeply-
rising costs, and, when the plant got into
production, the products couldn’t be sold
competitively with similar imported lines
without tariff aid, which was provided
early in 1954. And interest and deprecia-
tion charges on fixed assets added to the
losses.
Tariff assistance, however, was not the
complete answer to the co.’s troubles.
Despite annual increases, turnover has not
been high enough to ensure overall pro-
fitable operation. To keep plant employed,
excessive quantities of spare parts and
other lines were produced ; and some raw
materials were imported and not used,
because of fading demand for the end
product. And, until last term, stocks and
work in progress had been taken in at
valuation, which was cost, not ultimate
selling-price. Last term’s total loss of
£537,991 was made up of £307,627 on
account of trading operations (after
allowing £lOO,OOO for depreciation),
£66,529 written off on account of expen-
diture on forward projects capitalised at
the previous balance and £163,772 written
off stocks and work in progress applicable
to items existing at June 30, 1954. This
writing-down had to be faced before
negotiations with the Borg-Warner people
could be commenced.
Although losses have continued since
the close of accounts, an adequate volume
of orders is now in hand, and budgeted
figures, based on customers’ advised
requirements, indicate that profitable
operations should be reached before the
end of 1956, the chairman says. The
quality of the co.’s products is claimed
to be comparable with similar imported
lines. The management’s three biggest
problems are finance, volume of output,
which will depend upon the level of
activity in the growing motor-vehicle
manufacturing industry, and costs, which
are difficult to restrain.
Shareholders and a work-force of
some 900 persons can thank the co.’s
bankers for generous financial assistance,
which has enabled the project to be
carried on thus far. Last term £503,928
was added to the overdraft:
1958. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,633,000 £1,633,000 £1,633,000
Reserves .. .. 37,144
Overdraft . . .. 2,162,515 2,445,745 2,949,673
Creditors .. . . 249,521 277,765 153,600
Hire-purchase debt 99,938 92,991 50,283
£4,182,118 £4,449,501 £4,786,562
Land and buildings 716,507 690,250 742,152
Plant, etc. . . 2,039,747 2,219,23 3 2,135,082
Shares .. .. 1,675 1,675 1,675
Stocks .. .. 1,243,291 1,218,744 1,085,132
Debtors . . .. 180,898 295,352 260,283
Intangibles .. 24,247 562,238
£4,182,118 £4,449,601 £4,786,502
The reduction of £133,612 in stocks was
due to the writing-down already men-
tioned. The amount due to sundry credi-
tors was reduced by £124,159, and
£42,708 was clipped' off the -amount due
on plant bought on hire-purchase. When
the books closed there was 58s. lid. of
outside money in the business for every
£ of net tangible funds belonging to
shareholders.
A year or so ago Basil O. Smith and
Colin J. Watt joined the board and,
together with O. H. Jorgensen, were
appointed joint managing-directors.
Mr. Smith, later appointed chairman,
enjoys a wide reputation for resuscitating
corporate bodies which have got into
financially deep water.
Associated Rural Industries, Ltd.
npHE five main factors influencing the
current price of this big holding
co.’s equity shares are (1) the shrinkage
in equity-values generally, due largely
to the hardening of interest-rates, (2)
the mixed nature of the undertaking,
which ranges from rural production to
the marketing of motor-cars and dry-
goods, etc.; (3) the relatively large
amount of outside money employed;
(4) a slip of over 21 p.c. in last term’s
net trading profit, after eliminating out-
side shareholders’ interests; (5) lack of
tangible support for share-capital—at
June 30 last intangibles exceeded
reserves (book-values) by £91,284.
So, despite a lift in the div. from 8 p.c.
to 9 p.c., the market takes a cautious
view and prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at
3s. Bd. (ss. a year ago) to return 12.5 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The £l6 p.c. prefs.
at 16s. yield 7.5 p.c. Including uncalled
capital (£13,759), net tangible cover
(book-value) is £6 3s. lOd. prefs. and
4s. 3d. ords. On issued capital as it now
Stands, the pref. div. and 9 p.c. to the
ords. would call for £78,939, or £17,190
more than last term’s net trading profit,
which benefited from reduced provision
for taxation on account of pre-acquisi-
tion losses in respect of recently acquired
subsidiary interests. Still, subject to
unexpected changes in the economic
climate, and to developments in connec-
tion with the co.’s financial problems,
there are reasonable prospects of the
current year’s trading turning in more
than enough to maintain last term’s
rates of distribution.
Formed in Sydney in 1950, the co.
took over the then 20-year-old Aus-
tralian Rice, Ltd. (paid capital £102,478,
and largest rice-miller in Australia) for
£204,956, paying in its own scrip. The
story since has been one of rapid exten-
sion of interests, some of which are
well-established and satisfactory profit-
earners, while others have recently been
more of a hindrance than a help.
Operating through some 17 subsidiary
and associated concerns, the co. now has
wide interests in the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Area, including rice-milling,
mixed-farming, a winery, starch-manu-
facturing, carrying, farm-machinery and
car agencies, and rice-milling at Echuca
in the Murray Valley. In November,
1953, the business of Parsons Bros.
(Melb.), an old-established manufac-
turer and distributor of grocery lines,
with branches at Sydney, Brisbane and
Perth, was bought for £86,250 in scrip,
plus 2s. per Parsons’ share in cash.
Last term the Parsons business made
a “substantial contribution to the year’s
results,” but there was a fall in profits
from rice, owing to a poor season and re-
ceding prices, and losses exceeding
£30,000 showed up following an overhaul
of stock, plant and debtors’ balances in
the subsidiaries handling farm-machinery,
car-agencies, etc., and one of the cos. has
ceased to trade in motor-vehicle fran-
chises. The co.’s other interests showed
stabilised or improved results, and a
record rice-harvest, from which better
results are expected, is on the way for the
current term.
After eliminating outside share-
holders’ interests, etc., and allowing
£40,870 (up £11,102) for depreciation and
£11,724 (down £37,475) for taxation, the
slip in the net trading result was
£17,225:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
June Profit.* f Dividends •, serves,!
30. £ Pref. Ord. £ £
1953.. 71,808 6 p.c. 7ip.c.= 28,500 147,570
Preliminary exes, written off, £5762 141,808
Capital profits, £158,288 .. .. 300,096
Tax overprovided, £4lB .. .. 300,514
Unexplained addition, £ll9l .. .. 301,705
1954.. 78,974 6 p.e. 8 p.c. = 39,842 340,837
Capital dividend, £86,452 .. .. 427,289
Intangibles written-off, £17,895 .. 409,394
Loss on shares, etc., £8612 .. .. 400,782
Unexplained reduction, £72,053 .. 328,729
1965.. 61,749 6 p.c. 9 p.c. = 46,221 338,257
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
t Subject to intangibles, £429,641 at 30/6/’so.
The £61,749 of profit covered the pref.
div. and 10.8 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 17.2, 21.9, 18.2 and 18.1 p.c.
back to 1951. That leaves out of the
reckoning capital profits and other
adjustments to reserves, etc., interlined in
the table, the net effect of which was a
reduction of £2580 in reserves over the
twelvemonth. The lift in the div. plainly
suggests that the board considers the set-
back in net earnings a temporary one.
To provide more working-capital, etc.,
especially in connection with the Parsons
business, 496,763 new ss. ords. were
issued at par in March, 1955. When the
books closed £110,432 of the money
been received, leaving £13,759 to
come:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 195 3. 1954. 1955.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. .f 300,000 486,250 596,682
Reserves . . . . 147,5 7 0 3 4 0,837 338,257
Outside interests.. 112,69 7 2 30,721 216,290
Mortgages, etc. .. 87,011 66,815 84,896
Overdraft .. .. 257,005 607,981 749,576
Creditors .. .. 372,445 645,622 }
Tax provision .. 56,862 64,259 J ODU,OUI
Final divs. .. 15,000 22,450 27,340
£1,448,590 £2,454,935 £2,673,645
Land, building .. 316,560 406,808 448,014
Plant, machinery,
etc 112,143 249,632 221,722
Investments .. 209,0 4 6 9 3,713 59,338
Stock .. .. 346,816 652,773 808,760
Debtors .. .. 214,926 595,970 651,523
Cash .. . . 112,361 11,559 54.747
Intangibles .. 136,738 444,480 429,541
£1,448,590 £2,454,935 £2,673,645
The fresh capital, together with an extra
£141,595 from the bank and £lB,OBl
from mortgagees, etc., went mainly into
stocks (up £155,987), book-debts (up
£55,553) and land and buildings (up
£41,206). Stock appears at cost or
under, and debtors’ balances after deduc-
ting provision for doubtful debts. When
the books were ruled off there was
265. 7d. of outside money in the business
for every £ belonging to shareholders,
including intangibles. How much of the
overdraft is covered by firm orders of
sale, etc., is not ascertainable from the
published accounts.
F. H. Faulding and Co., Ltd.
HPHIS 110-year-old wholesale-druggist
and manufacturing - chemist has
laboratories and factories in South Aus-.
tralia, West Australia and N.S.W., and
warehouses in all States except Tasmania,
which puts it in a good position to win
its share of trade. And an office in
London looks after the co.’s import
requirements.
The business was first begun in
Adelaide in 1845 by Francis Hardey
Faulding, who later entered into partner-
ship with Luther Scammell. In 1921 two
private companies were registered under
the name of F. H. Faulding and Co., Ltd.:
one in Adelaide, which controlled the
branches in Sydney, Melbourne and Bris-
bane, and the other in Perth, to where the
firm’s activities had been extended in
1894. Conversion of the enterprise to a
public company Was made in 1947.
The following table shows the profits
of the parent and subsidiary companies
over the last six years:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends——To Re- Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.*
30, 6& 5 p.c. 7 p.c.
£ £ £ £ &
Added reserves, £156 .. .. 158,525
1950 .. 53,668 1 0,4 6 0 2 5,697 1 7,511 158,681
Added reserves, £9B .. .. .. 158,779
Share premiums, £55,065 .. .. 213,844
8 p.c.
1951 .. 63,317 10,460 34,324 18,533 232,3 m
Share premiums, £50,706 .. .. 283, 053
Added reserves, £l6O .. .. 283,243
1952 . . 49,336 10,460 39,252 282,867
Added reserves, £9210 .. .. 292,0 m
7 p.c.
1953 .. 58,954 10,460 43,428 5,066 297,143
Added reserves, £ 117 .. .. • • 297,-60
8 p.c. ...
1954 . . 99,882 10,460 49,632 39,790 337, 0 f
Share premiums, £1966 .. .. 339,016
Profit sale assets, £12,000 .. .. 351,01“
1955 .. 105,043 10,460 49,947 44,636 395,6*
* Subject' to intangibles, £20,127 at 30/6/’55.
Profit ojf £105,043 was reached in 1955


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ist Divorce.
TO ZARA VIVIAN HAYWARD late ot
61 Liverpool Street Paddington.—TAKE
NOTICE that GEORGE lIEDLEY HAY-
WARD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1777 of 1952 on the ground
of your adultery with JACK YOUNG and
a supplemental Petition thereto for
Divorce on the ground of your adultery
with HUGH COYLE If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 9th July 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from G. E. QUINN, Solicitor, 52
Phillip Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
DAVIES & COLLI3ON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
■i mm
-v
1
LIFE ASSURANCE
[Service
FOR
YEARS
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
INC.U* OUND l»M.'
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
36in.
:
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Cam per down,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
= THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE CO. LIMITED =
(Established. 20 years)
Offers YOU
This Outstanding Opportunity
© Security of £242 for every £lOO you invest. © An Issue of Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock. © Assets exceed £5 Million. © A hedge against inflation by taking advan-
tage of the Coupons issued with all long-term Debentures.
© Pension and provident fund trustees may withdraw, in any one year, up to 10 p.c. of
the amount invested. © All or part may be withdrawn for payment of death duties. © ®
stockholder may seek withdrawal of stock if he is faced with “exceptional or unusua
circumstances.”
Currency.
(L>ongr Term)
5 to 10 years.
Interest Rates.
6% to
6i% P.A.
Coupons.
25% to 50% of face value of
Debenture Stock.
COUPONS entitle the holder to purchase ordinary shares at par (5/-) on 31st December^
1958, in the proportion shown above.
Also Shorter Term Currency.
3 months to 4 years.
Interest Rates.
3\% to 6%
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY, FREE OF EXCHANGE
Make Your Money Earn the Highest Return
Consistent with Safety
Study the following example:
£5OO INVESTED Mutual Acceptance Co. Debentures
AMOUNT EARNED 5 Years. 7 Years.
(by taking advantage of the Coupons) £lB7/10/- £432/10/-
Savings Bank Interest . . . . . • £6B/15/- £96/5/-
Difference in Your Favour . . . • £llB/15/- £336/5/-
v PROSPECTUS NOW AVAILABLE
Call and discuss the investment —with us or with
ANY MEMBER OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE,
ANY BRANCH OF BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
= THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE CO.
316 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. MA 9701 (19 lines).
10 Years.
£587/10/-
£137/10/-
£450/-/-
Trustees tor the Debenture Issue :
Perpetual Trustee Company.
Brokers to the Issue :
Clarence Degenhardt, Manning & Co. C. B. Quinan & Cox.
The Treasurer,
THE MUTUAIi ACCEPTANCE CO. LTD.,
316 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please forward copy of First Mortgage Deben-
ture Stock Prospectus.
POST THIS COUPON FOR PROSPECTUS:—
NAME
ADDRESS
(BLOCK LETTERS PLEASE)
B 2
after provision of £66,600 (up
£7900) for taxation and an un-
disclosed amount for depreci-
ation. On average ordinary
capital the return was equal to
15.2 p.c., as against 14.4 p.c. in
1954, 7.8 p.c. 1953, 7.9 p.c. 1952,
12.3 p.c. 1951 and 11.8 p.c. in
1950. There was no change
in the ordinary dividend, declared
at 8 p.c. Interim dividend for
the current term is 3} p.c., com-
pared with an interim of 3\ p.c.
and final div. of 4} p.c. in 1955.
Last year was not an easy one
to trade in, according to Fauld-
ing’s chairman. Sales increased in
every State, but competition both
from Australian and foreign
manufacturers was very much
stronger. The cost of many raw
materials was also higher,
whereas selling-prices in some
fields are at ceiling level.
New plant is helping to im-
prove production methods, and
efforts are being made to quicken
stock-turnover. Arrangements
made during the year will enable
the co. to distribute its products
on a fully Australia-wide basis.
It is considered that while com-
petition may slow the growth of
sales in some States, in others the
market potential is “very great.”
An additional £331,799 stock
and £151,408 book-debts Were
carried and £42,986 net had been
spent on fixed assets at the end
of the year, financed by over-
draft and deposits (up £304,600),
trade credit (up £152,698) and
profit not divided among share-
holders :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
6 p.c. pref. .. £38,000 £38,000
5 p.c. pref. . . 163,600 163,600
Ord 620,404 624,338
Reserves . . .. 337,050 895,651
Mortgages . . 51,050 51,050
Overdraft, etc. . . 137,039 441,639
Creditors .. .. 168,312 621,010
Tax provision . . 59,800 68,222
Final div. . . 33,148 83,325
£1,908,403 £2,436,835
Freehold .. .. 374,108 398,602
Plant .. .. 121,440 139,932
Shares .. .. 132 132
Stocks, etc. .. 896,202 1,230,061
Debtors . . .. 490,441 641,849
Cash, etc. .. 5,953 6,132
Intangibles .. 20,127 20,127
£1,908,403 £2,436,835
Working-capital on June 30 last
was £713,846, as against £694,297
the previous year. Inventories
are reported to be in good order
and never so free of slow-selling
items.
Trading in the £1 ords. on
Adelaide ’Change opened in
January at 295. 4d., rose to
325. 6d. by the middle of the
month, and has since eased back
to 295. 3d. At that price the
return is 5.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. Net tangible asset cover for
the shares is 325. 3d.
Kundang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
THIS Malayan tin-dredging co.
proposes to return 19s. per
£1 share at an early date, thus
reducing paid capital from
£125,000 to £6250 in Is. shares.
To meet the £118,750 involved it
had surplus liquids (after allow-
ing for final div.) of £173,686 at
December 31 last. The only other
assets were the property (in at
£11,000), expected to be worked
out in approximately a couple of
years’ time, and some trade in-
vestments (£468).
The market currently prices
the f.-p. £1 shares at 445., or
255. after allowing for return of
capital. At 255. it values the
undertaking at £156,250, of
which £54,930 (Bs. 9d. per share)
is represented by remaining
surplus liquids, leaving £101,320
(16s. 3d. a share) to be recovered
from profit on mining. Divs.,
however, are subject to 30 p.c.
Malayan income-tax. So, to
distribute £101,320 net in
dividends, the mine would need
to earn at last term’s rate of
profit (£44,478) for the next 3£
years.
The profit for the year to
December last was won with tin
(metallic) averaging £5720.25 per
ton. The London average for the
first two months of 1956 was
£SBIO, but the figure had eased
to £5754 on April 25, and is
expected to drop further during
the months ahead.
After the Jap occupation the
co. was left with 292 acres of
pay-dirt, but no dredge—it had
been dismantled and removed.
About three years ago London-
controlled Taiping Consolidated
was induced to work the area
with one of its spare machines
on a 50-50 profit basis. Kundang
has no plant with which to equip
another property, nor is it likely
to be in a position to participate
in further mining operations
after the present ground is
worked out. The co. was first
registered in the F.M.S. in 1924.
The original promoter was
Ratrut Basin Tin, but the co.
later passed into the camp of
Alluvial Tin Malaya, and later
still became one of the Anglo-
Oriental group. ,
Zircon Rutile, Ltd., has
applied for authority to pros-
pect some 32,000 acres of
possible zircon-rutile-ilmenite-
bearing ground at West Rapp-
ville, south of Casino (N.S.W.)
and about 40 miles from the
coast. A lot of scout-boring and
bulk-sampling will need to be
done before any worth-while
idea can be formed about pay-
able deposits in this area. The
co., which has been working
beach-sands at Byron Bay
(N.S.W.) for the last 20 years,
has paid dividends totalling
£160,800 on a capital of
£127,500. For the year to June
30 last it won a record profit of
£84,222 (66 p.c. on capital) and
paid a2O p.c. dividend. For the
current term results are expected
to be better than those for 1955.
Record tonnages and values are
reported, but disputes on the
waterfront have delayed ship-
ment of concentrates. An
interim 2s. per share was sent
out on March 28. The f.-p. 10s.
shares, which had dropped to
10s. 9d. in the market during
1954, are now priced around
755. 6d.
* * *
In an effort to revive its
chances of becoming a profit-
earning and dividend-paying
concern, Silver Valley Uranium,
N.L., has turned to rutile —its
original leases, near Inverell
(N.S.W.), have failed to disclose
anything of commercial import-
ance by way of uranium or
silver-lead mineralisation. The
co. has now taken an option
over 385 acres near Evans Head
(N.S.W.), where prospecting is
said to have disclosed some
25,000 tons of heavy minerals,
estimated to contain 7000 tons
of rutile. An option has also
been taken over the old Great
Western copper - mine, near
Bathurst (N.S.W.), the prospec-
tive value of which has yet to
be proved, and the work is
likely to be expensive. The
vendors took £lOO,OOO in f.-p. ss.
shares for the Inverell leases,
and the public put up £120,000
—of which there is still about
£60,000 in kitty —in 1,600,000 ss.
shares paid to Is. 6d. each. The
contribs., which sold as low as 2d.
in 1955, recently fetched Is. 6d.
* * *
Coffs Harbour Rutile, N.L.,
sponsored by Gold and Minerals
Exploration and Pacific Mining,
is to be launched in Sydney as
soon as a mining permit to treat
beach sands near Coffs Harbof
(N.S.W.) is obtained. The co.
is expected to kick-off with an
issued capital of £150,000, part
of which is to be taken by the
two sponsoring cos. and part
offered to the public. While the
present tightness of the supply-
demand position for titanium
cannot be expected to continue
indefinitely, the long-term out-
look for the metal is an
encouraging one. Meanwhile,
the early birds will catch the
worm, as in the case of uranium.


Womew’s Letters
SYDNEY
More fine weather during the week
brought the sunshine for the month above
average, and it was announced that the
water-temperature at 72 degrees was
perfect for swimming. (Rather late in
the day, was the general verdict.) The
town looked closely at five-pound notes
to detect forgeries, and one salesgirl said,
“I never thought I’d see the day when
I wouldn’t want to take a fiver!”
Friday brought the cool change, and
everyone felt better immediately. Sydney
girls are toying with the idea of cultivat-
ing a Malenkov curl, described as “a lock
of hair falling gently over one eye,” and
sponsored by Princess Margaret. Two
interesting American women visited us
during the week: Mrs. James Doolittle,
wife of the General and here for the
Coral Sea celebrations; and Mrs. A. H.
Means, world chairman of the Girl
Guides’ Association.
Everyone, apparently, is interested in
the Girl Guides., At the reception given
by Lord Mayor Aid. Hills and the Lady
Mayoress for Mrs. Means there was a
bigger representation of Sydney women’s
interests than has been seen for some
time. Lady Lloyd Jones was there, Mrs.
J. Metcalfe, Mrs. H. S. Wyndham (wife
of the Director of Education), Mrs. S. H.
Roberts (wife of the Vice-Chancellor of
the University), and Mrs. Hoon Kim, with
news of a Guide Movement being started
in Korea.
The Lord Mayor, who said that two
of his daughters were Girl Guides,
welcomed Mrs. Means, who spoke of the
warmth of friendship she felt in Sydney
from the first moment she alighted from
the plane.
Mrs. Means, by the way, wears a smart
grey uniform which is the badge of the
World Committee, but she said that in
America (where the word is “Girl-
Scout”) the uniform is green. She her-
self feels, however, that the navy which
is worn in Australia is perhaps the color
kindest to most complexions. On this
her first visit to Australia she will be in
five States in the course of two weeks,
and she will attend the World Council in
Scotland this month.
# V
Newcastle High School, which started
in 1906 as a co-eduhaiional school with
28 pupils and which has expanded into
two large schools with notable records,
will celebrate its 50th anniversary with a
series of social functions spread over
three weeks between May 22 and June
13. They include a combined ex-
students’ ball on the opening-day, a
concert, a civic-function at the Town
Hall, and an unveiling of commemora-
tive-plaques by the Minister for Educa-
tion. A call has been sent out for all
ex-students who can manage it to
converge on Newcastle.
☆ ☆ ☆
Problem of the season is how to make
the men understand that one cannot
possibly wear one of the new bulky hats
on the side, even if, when worn straight
on the forehead, it does add 10 years to
one’s age.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Governor-General, Sir William
Slim, and Lady Slim attended the Gilbert
and Sullivan Society’s production of
“The Sorcerer” on Saturday night; his
Excellency is patron of the society and a
keen Gilbert-and-Sullivan admirer. On
the opening night (Thursday) the presi-
dent of the society, Dr. Laurence Hughes,
was noted in the audience, also the
founders, Miss Norma Morice and Miss
Beryl Morice; and among those whose
names have been associated with G. and
S. productions for some time were Mrs.
Stan Buddie and the Countess de Vilme-
Hautemont (very well-known as actress
and singer Vinia Deloitte).
J? #
There were several luncheons of
interest at Prince’s on Thursday, includ-
ing the party which German Ambassador
Dr. Walter Hess and Mrs. Hess gave in
honor of Dr. Peter Pfeiffer, from Bonn
(Germany). Their guests included
Ambassador for the Philippines Dr.
Roberto Regala and Madame Regala
(whose cream grosgrain coat, hand-
painted in cinnamon, was very striking),
Sir Richard Boyer, Professor Ralph
Farrell, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses,
and Dr. and Mrs. Frank Louat.
At another bright party Mrs. Harald
Bowden entertained Phyllis Ruthven and
Constance Alderton, whose three-months
visit to Australia is now nearly over —
they leave for home, in England, in the
Strathnaver on May 12. They have been
staying with Miss Ruthven’s brother John
during their visit to Sydney and renewing
acquaintance with many of the friends
they made through their Cooee Club in
London.
Also at Prince’s was the party which
Mrs. M. Sharkey-Simpson gave for 20
guests to farewell Mrs. Margaret
Fountain, who left on Monday for a six-
months’ tour of Europe. While in Eng-
land Mrs. Fountain intends to study
interior-decorating. Among those who
wished her bon voyage on Thursday were
her daughter Adrienne, Madame Scott,
Mrs. P. A. Yeomans, Mrs. Walter Bun-
ning, Mrs. Lyle Buchanan, Mrs. Helen
Fitzpatrick, Mrs. John Johnston, Mrs.
Robert Wilson and Madame Marotta
(who, with Mr. Noel Pelly, gave a
luncheon-party in Mrs. Fountain’s honor
at her Neutral Bay home on Sunday).
#
Anzac Week started with the Festival
Concert in the Great Hall of the Uni-
versity on the Monday night, when the
prizewinning Anzac play, “World at
Dawning,” by Kathleen E. Murray, was
performed. In the absence through
illness of Professor Peart, the awards for
play and poetry (both won by Miss
Murray) were presented by Professor
Mcßae. Mrs. W. Yeo, wife of the R.S.L.
president, was present, but it was
regretted that Dr. Mary Booth, who has
been identified with the Anzac Week
Festival since its inception, was too ill to
attend.
Ukrainian-born Clara Skriptschenko,
who will give the first of three recitals at
the Conservatorium next Friday night,
May 4, is a pianist who graduated from
the Munich Academy of Music with
honors, a pupil of Tembaur. While still
in her ’teens she was soloist with Munich
Broadcasting Station, and later was resi-
dent soloist with the International Sym-
phony Orchestra in that city. She also
appeared at the International Festival in
Paris. Miss Skriptschenko (who is in
private life Mrs. Harrison ) will give her
second concert on Friday, May 11, and
her final recital, which will include
Beethoven’s Hammerklavier Sonata, on
May 18. This sonata has not been per-
formed publicly in Sydney by anyone for
many years, and if at all by a woman, not
in living memory.
One of the pleasantest of the teenage
dances on the Sydney scene is that given
by the St, Aloysius’ College Cadet Corps,
which this year celebrated its 10th anni-
versary. The 0.C., Captain L. Skewes,
and senior cadet under-officer David
Strong were hosts for the officers,
N.C.O.s and cadets of the corps. David’s
mother, Mrs. Geoffrey Strong, welcomed
the guests, and David escorted Miss Gail
Treloar. Guests-of-honor were Colonel
J. Kelly and Mrs. Kelly. Colonel J. P.
O’Sullivan and Mrs. O’Sullivan were
present, Brigadier H. H. Edwards and
Mrs. Edwards, and the Rev. J. Casey,
S.J., headmaster of the college. Num-
bered among the 200 guests were repre-
sentatives of Kings, Shore, Riverview,
Knox, Barker, Cranbrook and C.8.C.,
Rose Bay.
☆ ☆ ☆
Six-denier stockings are being made,
so it is reported. Most women will
regard this news with mingled horror
and delight, for these stockings must be
well-nigh invisible, and nylons are about
the only things for which one does not
want to see anything for one’s money.
Their fragility must be extreme, however,
and if there is one thing more than
another that bows the heart down with
weight of woe it is the worry of how long
one’s new nylons will last without a
ladder.
☆ ☆ ☆
English stage- and film-actor Roger
Livesey (remember him in “I Know
Where I’m Going” and as Colonel
Blimp?) has a keen eye for feminine
fashions. At the party given for him and
his wife, Ursula Jeans, by J. C. William-
son only a couple of hours*after his
arrival he said he was delighted to see
that Sydney girls wore their skirts much
shorter than was the fashion overseas.
He was flattering enough to assume that
this was done by choice and not because
we are behind the times, but he was so
right when he commented on the way we
totter along in high heels. Roger and
Ursula are to appear shortly in “The
Reluctant Debutante” at the Royal, the
deb. in question to be played by Diana
ten Hove, who came with them from
England, but who is no stranger to Aus-
tralia—she was at school in Perth during
the war-years.
'☆ ☆ £
Noted that at Stradbroke Island during
the week a Francis Drake, whose toe had
been bitten by a death-adder, calmly
chopped it off, tourniquet to his
leg, then walked to his car and drove a
mile to get some help. Then he pro-
bably had a game of bowls.
MELBOURNE
Old friendships were renewed at the
annual Edith Cavell service on Anzac
Day, when women of British and Aus-
tralian nursing-services met to do honor
to the woman who in World War I gave
her life in the cause of humanity. Also
at the service were relatives of nurses
who lost their lives in the two wars.
Mr. Charles P. Fox, deputy-chairman
of the Edith Cavell Memorial Trustees,
conducted the service, and Colonel Robert
Fowler gave the address. The Lady
Mayoress (Lady Selleck) placed a wreath,
and was followed by Mrs. B. Campbell
(representing the Edith Cavell Trust),
Mrs. R. W. Chambers (president of the
Returned Nurses’ Club), Miss K. Mc-
Millan (Eighth Division Nurses), Miss B.
Poole (Queen Alexandra Royal Army
Nursing Service), Mrs. R. G. Casey (War
Nurses Memorial Centre), Miss Hughes
Jones (Centaur Memorial Trust), Miss
A. M. Sage (former Matron-in-Chief of
R.A.A.N.C.). The large metropolitan and
country hospitals and other nursing-
organisations also sent floral-tributes.
# V #
At the Church of Our Lady of Good
Counsel, Deepdene, Joan, elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Keast, of Balwyn,
was married to Dr. J. J. Campbell, of
Kilmarnock, Scotland. The bride’s gown
of white guipure-lace had a fitted bodice
with long, tight-fitting sleeves ; the skirt,
straight in front and mounted on satin
and net, fell into a long train. A pearl
coronet caught her long tulle veil, and
she carried a posy of gardenias and an
ivory prayer-book. Her sister, Mrs. John
Stafford, was matron-of-honor and Gwen
Greenhill bridesmaid. Both wore bal-
lerina frocks of white velvet, the full
skirts allied to long-sleeved bodices with
heart-shaped necklines. They wore small
white satin beaded caps and carried sprays
of frangipani.
Dr. Wallace Hobart was best man and
John Sawyer groomsman. Michael and
Nigel Sawyer were pages in attendance,
both wearing Campbell kilts, which had
been sent from Scotland by the bride-
groom’s mother. Reception was held at
the home of the bride’s parents. Mrs.
Keast, receiving her guests, wore a short
sheath-frock of charcoal-grey guipure-
lace topped with a tiny jet-beaded cap in
a darker tone of velvet.
☆ ☆ ☆
Cr. and Mrs. John Buchan gave a
dinner-party at the Oriental Hotel for
40 guests to do honor to U.S. Consul
Givon Parsons and his wife, who return
to the U.S. later this month. Guests
included Lord Mayor Sir Frank Selleck
and Lady Selleck, U.S. Consul-General
Gerald Warner and Mrs. Warner, Cr.
and Mrs. Maurice Nathan, U.S. Consul
Joseph Wiedenmeyer and his wife, and
Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Killough.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a choral service for the wed-
ding at St. John’s Church, Toorak, of
Judith Yvonne, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Oswald Bowden, of Toorak, and
Valentine Charles, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. V. Morgan, of North Caulfield.
The bride’s gown was of white pure-
duchesse satin, the Empire-style bodice
embellished by a pearl-and-jewel band at
the waistline. The bouffant skirt of full
inverted pleats had a soft drape at the
hips, where it was slotted-through to the
back to tie in a large bow and ends.
A pearl-and-diamente coronet held the
full-length veil. Carrying cream roses
and lily-of-the-valley, the bride was
attended by Mrs. Peter Scott, Joan
Duckett and Janet Greening, who wore
white frocks of pure-silk Swiss-faille. Re-
ception was held in the Venetian Court
of the Hotel Australia.
Kaye Morrison is the pretty and ener-
getic public-relations officer and funds-
organiser for the Opportunity Clubs,
which operate in the large industrial areas
and concentrate on the welfare of the
boys and girls in these districts.
For the annual ball of the Loreto Old
Girls’ Association, proceeds of which will
go to the Loreto Free Kindergarten in
South Melbourne, the foyer of the’Royale
Ballroom was decorated with chrysanthe-
mums, gladioli and golden autumn-foliage
in white urns, and on the ballroom-
tables there were cerise-and-gold artificial
peony-roses. The 21 debutantes, each
wearing an individual white frock and
carrying a trail of gardenias with green
velvet ribbon-streamers, were presented to
the president of the association, Mrs.
John Dynon, who wore a gown of pale-
blue and silver brocaded-satin.
# & #
Top coutourier Schiaparelli is now
making stockings. Beautifully packed in
a box of shocking-pink (the color she
made famous), with her name in black
splashed across the lid, the stockings are
available in four lovely colors. At a
recent showing at the Australia two
mannequins, wearing gay cancan petti-
coats under dresses of midnight-blue
satin, showed the stockings, which are
being made in this city. Colors are
“pink-sand,” “first-blush,” “neutral” and
“stunning-trend.” They all have an
iridescent look, and they do not change
their color in artificial light. They are
made in 15-denier; price, 16s. lid.
V if. &
When she was married at Melbourne
Grammar Chapel on Friday evening
Janice Gavin, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Gavin Paterson, of East Malvern, wore
white embroidered-organdie, the bodice
of cross-over style, the trained-skirt
finely pleated. A small organdie cap
held in place the tulle veil, and she
carried tuberoses, gardenias and stepha-
notis. Matron-of-honor was the' bride’s
cousin, Mrs. Bill Wakefield, and the
bridesmaid Jan Turner. Both wore white
organdie frocks with cummerbunds of
olive-green and gold satin. They wore
circlets of swansdown in their hair and
carried matching muffs trimmed with
green slipper-orchids. The bridegroom
was Barry Fisher, eldest son of Dr. and"
Mrs. Edwin Johnson, of East Malvern.
His brother Dale was best man and the
bride’s brother Tony was groomsman.


C42&k/
PROTECTA
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents~~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold * Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
, Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established muss m Reign of,
Oeofge 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
NJS.-W. Branch:
8 Spring: Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia end
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street. Melbourne.
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
m
Hi
X
ftgc
GLEANS
YOON
BREATH
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
esnd stops tooth BEST!
Every time you brush your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream, you can actually feel how smooth
and clean they are. Your teeth are whiter . . .
brighter . . . and you are assured of round-the-
clock protection against decay-causing enzymes.
That’s why Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest—
America’s largest—the world’s largest selling dental cream.
Get the family economy size and save up to 1/8
VGSA.
SUNFRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Pekarek and Badura-Skoda
Two overtures and a Mozart
Piano Concerto made up the
major part of the first Brisbane
Youth Concert. “Leonora No.
3” was a sure-fire piece of Beet-
hoven to begin the concert, and
the drama of its swirling
crescendos and trumpet-fanfares
was amply brought out by con-
ductor Rudolf Pekarek at the
helm of Queensland Symphony
Orchestra.
Similarly, the Brahms
Academic Festival Overture, with
its easy-to-remember student-
songs, showed what stirring
things a full orchestra can do
with simple tunes when an
imaginative composer sets them.
The novelty of the concert
was Richard Strauss’s earliest
important tone-poem, “From
Italy,” of which two movements
were played. The music doesn’t
come near the orchestral
splendors of “Don Juan” and its
companion-pieces, but it is
pleasant enough to hear occasion-
ally, and it is a wonder that the
last piece, a hit-and-run version
of “Funiculi Funicula,” has not
lived a comfortable separate
existence.
Paul Badura-Skoda was. soloist
in the Mozart C Minor Piano
Concerto. His exuberance at the
keyboard and his obvious enjoy-
ment of the music were part of
his affection for this composer.
There is no reason why a
pianist should sit like a graven
image before his piano, and
there was, in this performance,
a warmth and vitality that many
performances of Mozart miss.
Mozart having come near to
canonisation in recent years, a
whole tribe of pianists seem to
assume that his music has to be
treated with extreme reverence,
hence the refrigerated atmo-
sphere surrounding their playing.
There was nothing ladylike
about Badura-Skoda’s perform-
ance of this great concerto,
which is a continual alternation
between passionate, stormy
passages and short idyllic scenes
for woodwind. The young
audience seemed to enjoy it«
thoroughly, even though most
of them were hearing it for the
first time. That they liked it was
a victory for pianist and con-
ductor over the curse of un-
familiarity, which is, as ever,
the chief barrier to the enjoy-
ment of music.
d.j.m.
Badura-Skoda included two
contemporary works in his sub-
sequent Sydney recitals. One was
Paul Hindemith’s Sonata No. 3,
a stream of lyricism rather
classical in concept but modern
in idiom. Its rhythmic impulses
are strong and its final move-
ment an exuberant fugue.
The other contemporary work,
a Partita by Hungarian Jeno von
Takacs, is based on the 12-tone
scale, and its total contribution
is a mass of teeth-on-edge, clang-
banging dissonances; It would
be hard to tell whether it was
played well or badly.
One of the Sydney recitals was
an all-Mozart programme. There
was the Fantasia and Fugue,
K 394, with the fugal themes
interwoven with splendid clarity ;
the two contrasting Sonatas of
the unhappy Paris visit; the
charming little Gigue in G Major,
an essay in Bachlike contra-
puntal writing; the sprightly F
Major Rondo ; ,and the Fantasy
in C Minor, more emotionally
profound than is usual in Mozart
—all this was intellectual play-
ing of the highest order.
There were also Beethoven’s
Sonata Op. 109, its great mass
of closely-woven material in the
prestissimo treated with some
violence ; Schumann’s F Sharp
; lir.or Sonata, with its swift
tempo-changes, shifting modula-
tions and strong poetic flavor ;
and the death-charged B Flat
Minor Sonata of Chopin, with
the rolling sonorities of the great
threnody beautifully wrought.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“La Corrida”
At first it seems strange that
Lichine should have made this
ballet of sensuality and madness
to the music of Scarlatti, but
when one hears the harpsichord
effect suddenly sound like the
clanging of Spanish guitars and
the music drive on inexorably it
is immediately obvious that this
Scarlatti will suit the tragedy.
In the Borovansky perform-
ance in Brisbane Paul Grinwis’s
dancing and mastery of the role
were something to marvel at.
In his last throes of despair
the shadow of a bull towers
above him, but it is the shadow
cast by his own mad mind —a
superb stroke of choreography.
Kathleen Gorham, as his
murdered lover, needs borrow
no perfection from Grinwis, yet
they seemed to achieve an
inspired unity of understanding
in their moments together.
On the same programme was
a “Petrouchka” less lovable
than in the Miro Zloch-Peggy
Sager days, and a “Pineapple
Poll” notable for some spirited
featherweight comedy from
Royes Fernandez.
“flie Sorcerer”
The Gilbert and Sullivan
Society made a useful contribu-
tion to comic-opera by perform-
ing “The Sorcerer” at Sydney
Conservatorium for three nights
last week.
This is the work which set the
pattern for all the great G. and
S. operas, and the music is par-
ticularly graceful. With a fresh-
looking set and costumes,
Gregory Stroud directed his
practised company and orchestra
through a production rather
freer than is usual with amateur
Gilbert and Sullivan per-
formances.
The principals sang passably
well. The quintet “She shall
tend him, nurse him, mend
him,” the first of those lovely
madrigals with which Sullivan
enriched the English tradition of
part-singing, was a delight to
hear.
As J. Wellington Wells, the
“dealer in magic and spells,”
Robert Hatherley departed
somewhat from the G. and S.
tradition and gave a robust and
emphatic account of the
comedian’s part, which, though
lacking in subtlety, was very
amusing.
♦j* ♦> ♦>
“Cornerstone”
The Independent Theatre’s
production, at North Sydney, of
Gwen Meredith’s new play sets-
out an efficient, almost photo-
graphic account of the every-
day tragedy of the daughter who
has sacrificed her chances of
marriage in order to look after
her mother, and who, in middle-
age, is called upon to make the
same decision over again.
The characters are recognis-
able types, the dialogue fluent,
and all the surface-values of the
situation are presented in a
simple and straightforward
manner, so that the final im-
pression is that of a sad story
ably told.
Joan Bray’s restrained account
of the daughter was appealing,
and in a competent cast Nellie
Lamport and Edward Howell
were outstanding.
The play, runner-up in the
Playwrights’ Advisory Board
competition of 1955, was pre-
sented under the auspices of
the Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
However, its lack of originality
and its failure to recognise the
subtleties of our national charac-
ter prevent it from adding much
to Australia’s store of native
drama.
Sydney University of Tech-
nology's annual revue, produced
by Bob Bolton and titled “Low
Notes,” moved stylishly through
a series of hits and skits with
everyone obviously enjoying
such items as “Cursory Rhymes,’’
“Hits Through the Ages” and
“Red Tape Blues.” Their band
really played it cool.
“Thieves* Carnival”
The comic Muse is a resource-
ful wench. Frigidly received by
so many English playwrights in
the last few years, she retreats to
Paris and makes spectacular
returns to the English theatre
in such translations as “The
Little Hut” and “Hippo Danc-
ing” (both Roussin) and a whole
parade of plays by Giraudoux
and Anouilh. These, despite
many adjustments to morals and
situations, still seem to retain
more of the comic essence than
the home-grown products.
Brisbane Arts Theatre chose
Anouilh’s “Thieves’ Carnival”
for its second 1956 presentation,
and, although the hazards of con-
fecting such a dish —a whiff of
farce, a dash of satire and a full
flavoring of Gallic wit —with all-
Australian ingredients are con-
siderable, producer Brian
Cannon’s souffle was light
enough.
There is no more than a wisp
of plot—English upper-classes in
love with a resourceful gang of
French thieves bent upon
robbing them —but the effect of
the whole is that of a bright and
twittering cage of budgerigars.
Perhaps Brisbane’s stage-fadlities
caged them in too rigorously,
but the best performances, such
as Lorna Bollman’s, glittered
with joy.
V.V.
Artbursts
N.Z. Art Pioneers
Early settlers’ art is much the
same in any country, so it is not
surprising that the show of
paintings of early New Zealand
from the Canberra collection of
art-dealer Rex de C. Nankivell
should be remarkably like the
early art of Australia in treat-
ment.
Most of N.Z.’s pioneering
painters seem to have been
mainly illustrators, and that
wasn’t such a disadvantage.
They have left us impressions of
ports and harbors packed with
lithe canoes and lordly wind-
jammers, of towering coastlines,
of great sounds sleeping under
snow-capped mountains and of
tattooed and cloaked Maori
gentlemen looking as dignified
as ancient Romans.
One of the few relatively
gifted artists who visited infant
N.Z. was Charles Meryon, who
is represented by an incident in
early N.Z. history. A British
naval-officer in full regalia is
sitting and smiling benignly at a
group of Maori maidens, while
a furious warrior stands behind
him with a club. It is effective
illustration.
Jacob Gerritz Cuyp’s portrait
of Tasman and his wife and
daughter is, of course, in the
great tradition, and so, it seems,
is Louis John Steele’s “Maori
Girl in Hut Before the Tattooed
Head of a Chief”—a dark but
surprisingly luminous piece of
paintipg.
The collection is on show in
the National Gallery in
Melbourne.
Talkies
“The Rose Tattoo” (Sydney
Victory): This is a fine screen-
version of Tennessee Williams’s
play about the Sicilian-born
widow who becomes a half-mad
slattern when she finds that her
dead husband had been unfaith-
ful, and who rehabilitates herself
vyhen a second man comes into
her life. Anna Magnani gives
a performance of extraordinary
passion, and some scenes are
almost painful in their intensity.
Burt Lancaster, as the rumbus-
tious, happy-go-lucky truck-
driver who saves her from
herself, gives excellent support,
while a very sensitive per-
formance comes from Marisa
Pavan as the romance-hungry
15-year-old daughter.
“The Swan” (Sydney Sk
James): Grace Kelly is the
graceful and efficient lead in this
adaptation of Ferenc Molnar’s
play about a Princess who falls
in love with a commoner but
is fated to marry a Crown Prince.
Alec Guiness is cleverly subtle
as the Crown Prince who crosses
verbal swords with his rival, the
tutor-professor, in which part
Louis Jourdain enhances his
reputation for romantic roles.
The dialogue sparkles and the
settings are rich.
“A Star Is Born” (Sydney
Regent): Rehash of the old film
about the unknown singer who
skyrockets to fame under the
tegis of a film-star whose dis-
sipated ways ruin him after he
has married his protegee. Judy
Garland, as the rising star, acts
reasonably well, and James
Mason, as the arrogant alcoholic,
is convincing enough. The best
work comes from Jack Carson as
a cynical Hollywood executive.


School Day
By LYNDALL HADOW
Dziendobry,
Matron!” Mrs.
Podolska said as
Matron appeared at
the kitchen-door, but she made
no move to rise.
Mrs. Podolska had been a
schoolteacher in Poland, which
gave her the right to remain
seated in Matron’s presence,
knowing that Matron was not a
trained nurse, merely a Working
housekeeper with a courtesy-
title used to impress parents and
to assist with discipline. Now
Mrs. Podolska was cook at the
boarding-school, which gave her
a second right, and she used it.
“You lazy big woman,” she
said to Mrs. Rupa, the kitchen-
woman, “get up and say good-
morning to Matron.”
Mrs. Rupa rose from her knees
where she was scrubbing the floor
of the pot-cupboard. Barefooted,
with her head tied in a faded
handkerchief, skirt pinned up
behind her, and a bag apron, she
made a sketchy curtsy. “Dzien-
dobry, Matron,” she said and
stood gaping foolishly. “Pliz?”
Matron said, “Good-morning,
Mrs. Rupa. Did you go to the
employment-office yet?”
The old woman became full
of concern at not understanding
the language of her new country.
“Pliz?”
Matron turned to Mrs.
Podolska. “Did she go to the
employment-office, Mrs. Pod-
olska? They wanted to see her ;
about her age, I think. She
shouldn’t be working, they say.”
At that, the kitchen-woman
forgot her role. “Mrs.- Employ,
she not want me see. She my
daughter want —Lucija.”
She shuffled to her knees and
put her head into the cupboard
where Matron would no longer
see the slitting of her eyes when
she spoke of the employment-
officer. Cook made a gesture as if
to say “We may both be from the
same country, both be working
out here under contract to the
Commonwealth Government, but
she’s a peasant: I’m of a
different class.”
“You can ring now, Matron,”
she said.
“But it’s only five-to-eight.”
Matron glanced at her watch.
“Yes, we’re early, Mrs. Podol-
ska.” Mrs. Podolska was in-
different. “The breakfast will get
cold.”
At the other end of the
kitchen, two trollies stood by
the door, laden with plates—one
thin sausage to a plate, with a
grey dob of greasy gravy.
“But you shouldn’t dish-up so
early, Mrs. Podolska.” Matron’s
irritation sharpened her voice.
“You know by the time they
have had their cereal”
The door from the dining-hall
opened and Mrs. Rymachewska
pushed her way between the
trollies.
“One plate not have Weeties,”
she said, reaching for the big
yellow packet on the serving-
table. Then she saw Matron at
the other end of the room.
“Dziendobry, Matron,” she said
hastily, standing foolishly with
the plate and the packet. “Pliz?”
The interruption gave Matron
the chance to drop the subject
of dishing-up times. After all, a
good cook was not easy to come-
by. The Commonwealth employ-
ment-office in the town had noth-
ing to offer and the immigration-
camp had demands from hotels
throughout the area which were
more easily filled with their
promise of a 40-hour week and a
brighter life than a boarding-
school of boys had to offer.
So Mrs. Podolska it was—with
her fatty gravy, early dishing
and all her other disadvantages,
including the widowed truck-
driver who called at night.
“There were sixty Weeties
when I checked,” Matron said
to Mrs. Rymachewska, who
blushed, looking at Cook for
help. Cook shrugged, fanned
herself with a copy of “The
Good Neighbor.” “The flies must
have eaten it.”
Matron smiled a thin smile.
“I’ll see if the Head is ready,”
she said. The door closed behind
her.
“She think my Jimmy not
have eat! No, I not mind for
her! ” Mrs. Rymachewska
scowled at the space where
Matron had stood.
“Plenty Weeties!” Cook dis-
missed the subject of the double-
issue on Jimmy Rymachewski’s
plate in the dining-hall where the
Head had arranged for him to
eat with the paying boarders.
“Plenty Weeties.’’
“That girl Jolanta” Mrs.
Rymachewska asked, her scowl-
ing finished, “she not here? She
late.”
“Jolanta is foolish girl,” Cook
said mildly.
From her cupboard Mrs. Rupa
snorted loudly. “That one foolish
girl? No! Jolanta she know
where the baby came from.”
“You talk too much,” said
Cook. “You do your work and
you can eat and sleep. You not
worry about babies any more.”
Mrs. Rupa made a coarse
gesture from the safety of her
corner and clattered the scrub-
bing-brush against her pail.
On her way to the front
veranda, Matron glanced into the
Head’s study. The grandfather-
clock showed three-minutes-to-
eight, but the Head was not yet
there. “He does this deliberately,”
she said to herself. “It isn’t fair
to the boys on exam.-day.”
TN the sick-bay, off the side-
■*- veranda, Perry was still
running a temperature. Perry, it
was known, could always run a
temperature when he hadn’t
swotted a subject, but Perry’s
parents would be ready to blame
the school when the results came
out. Wrong food, they’d say;
or, allowed to catch a chill.
“Jolanta will bring you more
lemon-squash, Perry,” she said.
“Just keep drinking it.”
“Will you ring Dad and ask
him to come for me on Friday,
please, Matron?”
“There’s no weekend-leave at
exams ; you know that.”
Perry groaned. “But Padre
said the one that collected the
most for the organ-fund this
month could have it off.”
Matron smoothed the cover on
the second bed, straightened the
chair beside it. “The Padre is not
in charge of your leave,” she
said, “so you’ll just have to make
up your mind that you’re staying
in for the weekend, Perry., And
don’t groan about it.”
She walked to the other side
of the veranda. “Eight-o’clock.
He’s late.”
There was no sign of the Head,
no sign of the boys, only the
sound of their matin, muffled by
the closed doors of the chapel in
the dormitory-block on the
other side of the yard. She
waited, with her hand on the bell-
rope. The morning was clear,
fresh, with a hint of midday heat
to come. Bees went about their
business in the flower-beds that
edged the red, hard-beaten earth-
paths from the main gates and in
the grapevines that covered the
veranda trellises and the tea-tree
hedge that lapped the school.
There was a whistling in the
drive, a cheerful tune as a girl
on a bicycle came up the red
dusty track.
“Jolanta!”
The girl looked around her,
then up to the veranda. Matron
moved from the screen of vines.
“Jolanta!” and the girl jumped


mA
suifed firt.
Ifie
Occasion...
• • •
in a Dinner Suit by Si6GrKuijx&
Your “Special-Occasion” suit has to be
special... comfortable, yet smoothly-fitted; smart,
yet styled with careful good-taste; durable, to
give you years and years of wear.
Stamina Dinner Suits are tailored ...
from top-grade Crusader Pure Wool Cloth
selected, styled, cut by specialists . . . for men of
discrimination.
A Stamina Dinner Suit is pre-tailoring—
at its superb best. ..
ASK FOR
Stamina.
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
D 51.113
ClOTHii
L
off the machine. “Yes, Matron?
Dziendobry, madame.”
“You’re late again!”
The girl looked down at her
sandalled feet. “It is my mother,
she have the sick, Matron. Must
I look to her.”
“Your mother has plenty of
others to look after her in camp:
and a doctor, and nurses. You’re
supposed to be here at seven-
thirty.”
“Yes, Matron.” The girl kicked
a stone expertly in the red dust.
“And that dress. I’ve told you
before, you must wear a plain
dress for work. That one is most
unsuitable.’’
Jolanta looked down at the
low, rounded neckline, smoothed
her small waist. “Yes, madame.”
Then she raised her eyes so that
briefly Matron saw her own
tanned and stringy neck, her own
middle-aged waistline reflected
in the young girl’s glance.
“Well, hurry and get started.
You should have the Head’s
study done by eight-o’clock.”
Jolanta smoothed her hair in
its pony-tail. “The Head say
it doesn’t matter about his study,
early,” she said. Carelessly she
flipped the pedal round and
started off again, whistling,
broadsiding around the corner of
the house as Matron stood
watching.
“Too much cheek for a
seventeen-year-old. I’ll get rid
of her. Ah, at last.”
The door of the dormitory-
block flew open and the boys
came running out, looking up
to the veranda where Matron
stood, her hand on the bell-rope
again. The last ones fanned
aside as the Head appeared,
walking slowly, his heavy boots
under his gown stirring the dust
of the gravelled yard as he
moved, head bent, eyes on the
ground, the book in his large,
heavy hands, the black gown
swirling around him as he
walked.
From her vantage-point behind
the green screen of the vines,
cool in her crisp white uniform,
Matron watched him: the sun
glinted on his slicked red hair,
he looked hot and out of place.
He came up the front steps, let
the wire screen slam as he went
to his rooms. Down in the yard
the boys jostled, and on the
veranda Matron waited. Pre-
sently he appeared again, the
morning-paper under his arm.
“Good-morning, Matron,” he
said. “You may ring.”
The day was on its way.
(II)
AT breakfast she said, “There
won’t be time for sick-
parade.”
The headmaster smoothed the
marmalade carefully on a second
of toast, added cream, cut
the slice in four.
“Gibbs!”
Only the clink of a knife,
caught unprepared, broke the
silence that came to the dining-
hall at the sound of his voice.
“Sir?” Gibbs pushed his way
between the crowded chairs and
stood at the Head’s table.
“Report to me in my study
after breakfast.”
“But, sir”
Gibbs looked at the watch on
his wrist —a man’s watch that his
father had given him at the end
of the Christmas holidays. Gibbs
had spent that holiday working
shifts on the tractor whose roar
barely ceased from sunrise to
sunrise, getting the fabulous
wheat-crop off; and the watch,
a hundred pounds’ worth, was
his old-man’s way of saying
“Good on you, bloke,” to his
15-year-old son.
Now the lad looked at the
Head. “But, sir—the exams!”
“In my study, Gibbs. You
may go.” And, turning, “Sick-
parade as usual, Matron, please.”
He pushed his toast away,
made great play with the folding
of his napkin, the heavy ring on
his large heavy hand and the
napkin-ring both monogrammed.
At nine-o’clock the Treasurer
rang to say he’d be over at 10
and he hoped there’d be some
of Mrs. Podolska’s hot scones.
Matron told the cook, who
agreed to make a batch. “Mr.
Gregor’, he is good man. We
like to see Mr. Gregor’. He every
day—what you say?—he have
the joke.”
Matron went to look for
Jolanta.
Jolanta was in the Head’s
sitting-room, the vacuum-cleaner
running while she sat on the
floor putting together the tiny
ivory oxcart and driver that
helped the miniature dogs, cats,
horses, birds and peasants to
clutter the piano-top. Matron
tripped on the cleaner-flex.
“The girl’s hopeless.” She’d
said that to the Head only
yesterday.
“Let her go then, Matron.
She’s your responsibility.”
But Matron knew there was
little hope of anyone better.
“The Head’s bedroom is a dis-
grace, Jolanta. Go back and dust
it properly. I’ll finish here. And
make sure you’re ready with the
tea by ten-thirty.”
Jolanta got to her feet, leaving
the oxcart in pieces on the carpet.
“The wheels won’t stay on,” she
said.
By 10-o’clock Jolanta had the
Head’s quarters clear of red
dust, vacuum-cleaners and dis-
placed-persons. In the sick-bay
she sat on Perry’s bed, drinking
lemon-squash and telling him
how the kids got out of school
in Tanganyika, where she and
her female relatives and the aged
and infirm menfolk of her
family had spent the war-years
as refugees.
“We would tell the teacher we
had a pain in the stomach and
she would send us for the doctor
to see. The camp-commandant
would always be frightened some
girl would have a baby. Some
girls’ mothers, they had the
babies. One woman she put a
knife in a man in the camp
because he give her daughter a
baby.”
“Did she kill him?” Perry
was interested in the fate of the
philanderer.
“That man he die all right.
And Mrs.—oh, I not remember
her name now —she work right
here and the baby it live in the
camp with her, just like it is her
own child.”
“What happened to the girl?”
“Elsbieta? She not come to
Austrili’. She marry other man
and he take her to England.”
“There’s Mr. Gregory’s car
coming up and he’s got the
Canon with him.”
Jolanta sucked a lemon-rind.
“My sister she had Mr. Gregor’
hear her case. Now we must
go down to the city next month.
Margherita she is having a case
with a man on the railways ...
he say not his baby. I hope-it
we will stay in the. city for one
night. I wish-it we could live in
the city.”
“There’s Matron calling you.
“Eh? Oh, Matron? Pff!” said
Jolanta.
MR. GREGORY was a J.P.
Also a leading businessman.
But he still had time to balance
the pocket-money books at the
school, a job he’d been doing
every month, along with other
little accounting tasks.
The Canon had arrived with
the Treasurer. “Ah, Canonicus
superbus! ” The Head intoned
the words as he opened the fly-
wire screen to admit his callers.
The perspiring churchman smiled
fieetingly. The walk there had
been hot and dusty and Mr.
Gregory’s car hadn’t overtaken
him until he neared the school.
The Canon eased his bulk grate-
fully into the chair by the
window, cool in the lee of the
vine-covered veranda.
“How are the grapes this year,
Head? How are the grapes?”
“I’ll send the boys over with
some tonight, Canon. Your wife
likes them for jam?”
“Don’t run yourself short,
Head ; don’t run yourself short.
And how are the examinations
going? You have some good
scholars here, I’m told; some
good scholars.”
Head admitted that he had
some good scholars. “But the
scholars of today are not what
they were, Canon. Now in my
day”
He looked across at the
framed photograph on the
mantel, the photograph marked
“Oakleaves High School, Sussex,
1930,” the photograph of a
hundred school-caps with faces
underneath, a hundred school-
jackets with boys inside them.
Every boy of such a company
was a scholar, as the Head
saw it.
That he himself at the age of
14 was second from the left
in the fourth row gave him the
right to all things scholarly:
though it could not be forgotten
on occasion that Uncle John had
married and acquired other
responsibilities than an orphaned
nephew to be kept at school with
cap and blazer, so that at the
age of 17 the insignia of the
scholar had been laid aside in
favor of the sober habit of a
clerk in the church-office of this
far distant State of Australia.
An orphan has little chance of
a profession in such an instance:
but when the occasion and the
promotion arrive, he has his
class-photograph for the mantel
of his study. .
“Now in my day” he said.
“Ah, hot scones! Good-morn-
ing, Matron.” 'The Canon was
no longer interested in the
examinations of the good
scholars, nor in the Head’s days:
his mind dwelt on hot scones, jam
and cream burdening the trolly
which Jolanta had left at the
door with Matron. He moved his
bulk in the chair in expectation
of delights to come. “Ah, and
plenty of butter. Plenty of
butter! ”
“I notice,” said Mr. Gregory,
“that Mrs. Podolska is not stingy
with the butter.”
“European cooking is richer
than ours,” said the Canon.
“They have the old, original
recipes, they have the ingredients,
richer on all scores; yes, indeed,
on all scores.”
“Matron, will you pour,
please?”
“I always think tea tastes nicer
when poured by the ladies,” said
Mr. Gregory.
“Just three lumps, please,
Matron,” said the Canon. “Just
three lumps.”
“PJOT scones!” Mrs. Millar
made a face that indicated
she knew a hot scone when she
saw one. Carefully she set
yesterday’s cold hard scone, with
its scrape of butter, on the
windowsill and stirred her tea
with a lead-pencil. “Cold! ” _
The disappointment that
showed was there for a moment
only: Mrs. Millar had faced-up
to bigger losses in her life than
the loss of a cup of tea. Mrs.
Millar, late of London, had been
denied much in her 50 years.
“They don’t know how to make
a cup of tea, either.”
She poured it carefully on the
ground and the red earth sucked
it up. Then she lit a cigarette and
took a couple of puffs, deliberate
puffs, before she looked at
Matron with a dark little twinkle.
‘,‘But thanks for bringing it oyer.”
Matron smiled sadly. “You
should come over to the house,
Mrs. Millar,” she said, thinking
of the table on the veranda by
the kitchen-door, as she had just
seen it—today’s scones from the
same batch that had gone to the
Head’s study, hot and floury,
fresh from the oven: the apricot-
jam, golden in its jellied juice,
and the dish of cream, the
remains of the cream-dish from
the Head’s breakfast - tatye,
gathered every morning for a
week and kept not in the
(Continued on page 23)


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated to the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus ®®
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Snakes and
ladders
by
Brian
[?]aves
WHEN Judy married Tom
Ballard and came to
live on the range, her
greatest surprise was the
house.
“Rough and ugly,” Tom had
told her. No one could deny
its roughness, or its rugged
strength, for that matter, but
“quaint” would have been far
more expressive than “ugly.”
Seeing it first at a distance of
nearly two miles, gay in its new
coat of paint, she had exclaimed
delightedly, “Oh, Tom, it’s
charming! The roof caps it
like a poke-bonnet!”
“I’ve no quarrel with the
roof,” he told her. “If doesn’t
leak, and the shape is fine for
wind; passes over it, sort of.
Not that it was built that way
on purpose,” he added with a
wide grin. “It just grew. The
house has been added to twice;
the original was one big room
and a veranda. I thought you
might find it a bit awkward;
sort of unplanned.”
But it wasn’t so very incon-
venient when she got used to it.
What really astonished, and in
a way unnerved, her was its
height from the ground. She
had known that most Queens-
land country houses were up on
stumps, but never, surely, were
there such stumps as these!
They were like piles beneath a
wharf, and the lowest window
was twelve-feet from yard-level.
Two sets of wooden steps led up
steeply, one to the kitchen-door
at the side of the house, the
other to the front door, which
gave entrance to an Enclosed
porch that had once been the
veranda
“It will be like living in a
tree' ” she said
“I suppose it "is a bit up,” Tom
agreed. “But it has its uses that
way. I can keep the truck
underneath, and haven’t needed
to build a shed. A few years
ago I did all the fruit-packing
there, where my work-bench is
now, and your wash-house is at
the far end.”
, , , .
What a place to wash in!
she said. “The wind will howl
through the piles! ”
„®, . .
Stumps, he said, grinning at
her. You wont be washing
m , „
t There 11 be other winds.
Oh, yes, but not bad—except
the westerlies.”
But what on earth would
happen if a really big cyclone
mt us? It would lift the house
bodily, and we would end-up in
t
We ve had plenty,” Tom told
her. Really big ones, and the
place still stands. The house is
double-anchored on to every
stump. It rocks a bit in a good
blow, but you get used to that.”
“Well,” she said with a deep
sigh, “the snakes can’t crawl in,
that’s one comfort.”
He was about to retort that
most of the snakes about there
were mighty climbers, but re-
membered that she was really
terrified of snakes. The bad
ones, blacks and browns and
copperheads, wouldn’t come in,
and he hoped to cure her of this
nervousness. He would make
her kill one. When she knew
how easy it was she wouldn’t
worry,
TUDY came to the farm in
** early spring, but it was
December, the month of storms,
before she saw her first snake,
Unfortunately for Tom’s plan it
was not one he wanted to kill,
but a lazy old carpet-snake, fat
with rats, stretched along the
top of a row of pines, and half
asleep in the sun. He called
Judy, not telling her what he
had found, and it was a while
before she realised what he was
pointing at.
“They’re quite harmless,” he
told her, “and they get rid of
u lot of rats. I wouldn t disturb
bim at all, but he s got his head
on a ripe pine, and I want it.’
He flicked the snake on the
nose with his glove. When it
drew back its head he quickly
snapped off the yellow fruit and
P ut it in the picking-basket,
Turning then to Judy he found
she was being violently sick.
It wasn t that I was so very
much afraid, she told him,
“with you between me and it.
But it smelt so foul!
“So you re one of those, he
sa id, an d when she asked him
what he meant he told her that
som ® P eo P le t said tbe / could
smell a carpet-snake before they
sa ™ but he ’ d . never known it
make an y° ne S 1^ k befor ®- ,
, Her ***} snake > a P a rt from
three dead ones two blacks
that Tom had killed before she
saw them ’ a “ d a smaU brown
* bat f neighbor s young son
brought to her triumphantly on
the end of a stick—was a green
tree-snake, and it was in the
h ’
QVI '
. She and Tom had been to the
township twenty miles away, in
va ii e y 5 an d on returning Tom
had hurried into his Working-
clothes because he wanted to
start pi c ki n g_ As he pulled his
old, green shirt over his head
the sna k e jumped out through
the neck, landed on the bed, and
from there slithered to the floor,
She was dumb and immobile
with fright, but Tom took no
notice of her. Slamming the
door, he chased the snake
around the room with a boot,
It was some time before he
caught it, and when he had time
to spare for his wife he found
her unconscious on the bed.
That frightened him, but he was
more than ever determined that
she would have to kill a snake;
only by such an act, he believed,
could she extirpate this, to him,
abnormal fear.
The problem was to find one
that was not too lively, and in
such a situation that he could
leave it, and bring Judy up to
it armed and prepared. He
explained to her that the tree-
snake, like the carpet-snake, was
quite harmless, but he cut for
her a light, strong club, with a
bend at the end like a hockey-
stick. This he made her leave
beside the kitchen-steps, and told
her never to walk about the
farm without it.
“Not that you are in the
slightest danger,” he said. “A
snake is just scared of you
as you are of him. But I want
you to kill one.”
She said nothing. She had no
intention of ever killing a snake,
but she carried the stick, and felt
happier.
TCOR a long while she had no
further encounters. She was
bitten by a shellback-tick,
which made her very sick for
two days. Late in February she
met her first cyclone.
Even Tom admitted that this
was an unpleasant experience.*
“At one stage,” he said, “I
thought the house might go. I
kept quiet about it, not wanting
to scare you, but it was a mighty
blow.”
“And you might have kept
quiet about it now!” Judy
thought. Before Tom spoke she
had believed that it was just one
of those things, like snakes, that
had to be endured and weren’t
really dangerous. Now she
thought that he might be
“keeping quiet” about snakes as
well.
The cyclone marked the be-
ginning of the Big Wet, and such
rain as she had not believed
possible. In one period of four
days they had 33 inches. Tom
had to be out in it most of the
time milking, tending stock,
digging drains, doing a hundred
necessary jobs and bringing
dray-loads of red mud and
tankfuls of water into the house,
so that it was impossible to keep
the place even passably
respectable.
First she was mad with Tom
for not taking his boots off out-
side, quite unreasonably she
knew, even at the time, because
if he came in barefooted he
would still drip water and carry
red mud. Then she broke down
and wept. “And the front-door
has swelled up and jambed
tight!” she wailed. “We can’t
get out of this damned house
any way except through the
kitchen! And if we did we’d
have to swim!”
“Don’t worry about it,” he
said, kindly. “There’s nothing
you can do. When this eases
up everything will be bright and
clear. You’ll see it won’t take
any time to get rid of the mud,
and I’ll soon fix the door.”
It surprised her how quickly
and how completely the red mud
did clean up, but the front-door
was still stuck fast —Tom had
been so busy with farm-work —
when her husband had to make
a sudden and unexpected trip to
Brisbane.
“I can’t do it in a day,” he
told her. “But I’ll drive back
through the night. Expect me
about breakfast-time or a little
later.”
When he had gone she really
went to work on the house,
cleaning and polishing, hardly
stopping to eat, and by tea-time
she was satisfied with it, or as
satisfied as a good housewife can
be. After tea she decided to
extend cleaning operations to
under the house. This did not
take long ; the floor was cement-
covered, her own wash-house
end was always spick and span,
and Tom was naturally tidy. By
ten-o’clock she had finished and
climbed wearily up the steps to
the kitchen with no other
thoughts but of bed and sleep.
The kitchen-door was open,
and passing through she
switched on the light and turned
to shut it. Then she saw the
snake’s tail hanging over the
top.
C|HE screamed and slammed
the door. When she took
courage to look again she saw
that she had effectively caught
the snake. It must have been
coming down the inside of the
door when she first saw it, for
less than a foot of its tail was
jam bed against the lintel.
That was enough. It was
long and slim; in the bright
electric-light it shone a metallic
copper like new telephone-wire.
Its neck was extraordinarily thin,
its head broad and heart-shaped.
As she watched, it writhed and
twisted horribly, bashing against
the knob of the Yale lock. She
was terrified by it and yet
fascinated.
It came to her suddenly, like
a physical blow, that she was
shut in with it and alone. The
front-door was stuck beyond
hope of opening, the kitchen-
door was effectively guarded, the
windows were too high to drop
from.
When the first shock had
passed she realised that she must
be safe from it, only confined.
And then another suspicion
struck roots and grew, and
became a certainty. In its
violent struggles to be free the
snake would somehow manage
to extricate itself, or would
wrench off the end of its tail
and drop to the floor . . .
By this time she was in the
living-room, with the door
between it and the kitchen shut.
Looking at this, she was sure
that the crack beneath it would
let a snake wriggle through, and
collecting newspapers she
wedged them under the door,
hard in, with a flat ruler from
Tom’s desk. Moving from
there, but leaving the light burn-
ing because the living-room
switch was on the wall furthest
from her bedroom, she un-
dressed and went to bed,
shutting all her windows,
shutting and wedging with
papers the second door.
Exhausted though she. was,
sleep was not possible. She
could not put the snake from her
mind, or escape the feeling of
being imprisoned with it. With
every crevice sealed, and the
night so hot, she was suffocating.
“And the whole house is a blaze
of light,” she thought. But
what did it matter? No one
would notice it or worry about
it if they did.
Then the wind started ; first
in short, wild gusts, but soon
with a continuous and increasing
fury. The old house creaked,
and she imagined it had swayed
a little. But was it imagination?
She had not had the wireless on
all day. The wind might well
herald another cyclone. She
must get up and listen for news
of it. If a cyclone was threaten-
ing, the weather-bureau gave
frequent reports of its position,
speed and intensity.
She dressed quickly, for what
reason she afterwards did not
know, went into the living-room,
and switched on the wireless.
Only then did she know that it
was in fact too late. She could
get no station, and to know the
time she would have to go into
the kitchen —their only clock
was there. She struggled with
her fear for a long time,
persuaded that the snake must
now be crawling about the
kitchen, but the urge to know
the time, to khow how long she
would have to endure before
daylight brought its own pecu-
liar relief, became greater than
the fear.
There was also the horrible
fascination of the snake. She
wanted to look at it again.
AT first she was sure that the
snake had actually escaped.
Then with a gasp of relief she
saw that it had climbed to the
rail that Tom had put up beside
the door for her saucepans, and
was stretched out along it.
It was still firmly held by the
tail. It lay very still, watching
her with lidless eyes. She
thought that nothing in the
world could be so utterly evil.
And yet it was beautiful.
The wind had reached gale
force, and the house was moving
beyond any doubt, shuddering
and swaying.
Wearily she retreated, shutting
the kitchen-door behind her, but
feeling too hopeless to wedge the
paper beneath it. Only after she
had lain on her bed for half-an-
hour or more fully-clothed did
she realise that she still had no
idea of the time. She had for-
gotten to look at the clock.
Some time later she must have
passed from a. state of hopeless
fear into deep sleep, for she
woke to full day with the sun-
light streaming through her
windows. The wind had
dropped to a gentle breeze. No
cyclone after all. Just a rough
wind.
There was still the snake. But
it did not seem to worry her
that she had to pass through the
kitchen on her way to the bath-
room. In the bright light of a
calm and lovely day everything
seemed different.
The snake was very much
alive, hanging again at full
length, rearing up against the
door, writhing about the lock.
o Continued on page 34)
MAIDEN AUNT
She went upstairs from summer in the garden,
the drone of insects near the wall.
The darkness on the stairs winced cold;
the rose-bowl let a petal fall,
a moth that fluttered through her fear
like heat inside a scarlet flower . . •
“Amelia: are you all right, my dear?”
“I’ll rest a little, just an hour.”
She closed the window, drew the blind.
A moth, a violet, cut the sound,
the hills of summer drenched with light.
An insect spun the room around.
She touched her forehead, sharp with pain.
“O dear: what did I come to find?
Needle, wool, glasses, book?” /
The light fluttered and tore her mind.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


INSURANCE —for your protection-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated in the British Colony of Eong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 813 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
NOW OPEN
an issue at par of £2, 500,000
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organization
Established over 25 years
Assets exceed £40,000,000
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
Industrial
Acceptance
Corporation
LTD.
Sydney— Melbourne —Brisbane—Adelaide
Perth—Hobart 56.3.21.
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
LOtiG TERM
6i%
SHORT TERM
CUMULATIVE
PROSPECTUS
may be obtained from
ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and a!l Branches of
E. S. & A. BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LTD.
and
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LTD.
Trustee for the
Debenture Stockholders
THE PERPETUAL
EXECUTORS & TRUSTEES
ASSOCIATION OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
refrigerator but in the hessian
safe on the veranda.
Gathered at the table were
Mrs. Podolska, Mrs. Rupa, Mrs.
Rymachewska, Mrs. Podolska’s
daughter on her day-off from
the hotel, Mrs. Rupa’s son who
came for morning-tea, afternoon-
tea, whenever he could sneak off
from the superintendent’s garden
at the camp where he was
employed at the basic-wage,
keeping the camp entrance bright
and supplying cut-flowers to the
florist in the township. Matron
thought of the hot scones that
were being eaten by them all, and
by Mrs. Kobylanska and her
daughter Mrs. Kowaljewa in the
laundry.
“Why don’t you come up to
the house for morning-tea?” she
asked Mrs. Millar.
“What, an’ eat their dirty sour
cream? An’ listen to their
jabber? No, I’m one that likes
me talkin’ in English.”
She took a couple of quick
puffs, butted the cigarette care-
fully and put it back in the tin.
“An’ what’s more, they’re dirty,
Matron.” She stood up from
where she was sitting, on the step,
took her broom over to a wire-
netting guard around a small
flame-tree and cleaned the fluff
off vigorously. “You should
have seen these dormitories when
I took them over.”
Matron smiled. “I did, Mrs.
Millar.”
“Well, you know, then.” The
cleaner took up her bucket. “I
wish we could have something
else but this disinfectant. It
brings the flies.”
“It does,” Matron agreed.
“But the Head says we must, so
that’s it. Anyway, I’ll try to get
your morning-tea nice and hot
for you tomorrow, Mrs. Millar.”
“Thanks all the same for
coming over with it, Matron.
It’s nice to have a talk with some-
one that speaks English, some-
times.” She went off to the
second dormitory, whistling “Till
the Lights of London Shine
Again.’’
“Her George Medal hangs a
bit heavy on her,” the Head had
said, after a bout with Mrs.
Millar. “Can’t you get someone
younger, Matron? A D.P.?”
“The younger ones from the
camp won’t come over for daily
work.” Matron knew her dis-
placed-persons. “If they work
here at all, they want to live-in,
and you know we haven’t any
accommodation for the dormi-
tory-maid.”
“That young girl, that —what’s
her name?—the one that does
my rooms: doesn’t she come
from the camp?”
“Jolanta’s an exception,” said
Matron. So the daily Mrs.
Millar it was, with her fire-
watcher’s George Medal and
nothing to stay in London for
when her son decided to try
his luck in Australia. “It wasn’t
much,” she’d say, when you
asked her about the medal: but
the citation said “devotion to
duty” and her son said, “A
hundred-or-so lives and the old-
man did a perish in the same
fire. Game old girl, Mum.”
Matron waved as Mrs. Millar
pedalled off down the drive, her
shopping-basket up in front, the
red dust rising around her, the
roses nodding on her hat.
'T'HEN it was midday and
dinner-time.
“Bless us, O Lord,” said the
Head, “and these thy gifts
which we are about to receive of
thy bounty, through Christ our
Lord.”
The Head intoned, the boys
droned, Matron’s lips moved
“Amen.” The Head opened his
eyes, raised his head, sat. Matron
took two steps back from the
table, opened the door, and Mrs.
Rymachewska pushed her trolly
into the room through the clatter
of 60 boys being seated. There
were 20 places at each table, the
plates passing from hand to
hand down the line. “Healthy
young animals, they eat well.
And that reminds me. I’ve had
a telegram from the Padre,
Matron. We can expect him off
the seven-twentyfive tonight.
He’ll be here for the week.”
“Does he want a taxi?”
“I’ll pick him up. Will you
have a tray in my study? Just
something cold will do, Matron.”
“Cold meat, salad, wholemeal
bread and butter, stewed fruit
and cream, cheese and black
coffee.”
“You’re forgetting the iced
tomato-juice.”
Matron waited to smile until
the Head had laughed.
Conly was on his feet. “Please,
sir”
“Yes, Conly?”
“Please, sir, Gibbs isn’t here.”
The Head picked up the salt-
spoon in his large white fingers,
patted the salt into a mound in
the cellar, flattened it; then, full
of decision, he returned the
spoon carefully to its place,
raised his head to look straight
at the lad.
“Thank you, Conly,” he said.
“Very good 'of you, I’m sure.
Don’t let this get around, though
—‘The Head is blind.’ It mightn’t
be good for the House. Thank
you, Conly, indeed, for telling
the old blind Head that Gibbs
isn’t here. Very kind of you,
indeed.”
“Matron, will you ring for
Mrs. Rymachewska, please?
Conly, you may be seated.”
Mrs. Rymachewska came in
with a whiff of steamed-pudding
from the kitchen. She looked at
Matron, twisting her apron in her
fingers, darting a quick glance
at her Jimmy in his corner. He
was watching her and the Head
and Matron, all the enjoyment
of his food lost in his 10-year-
old concern for his mother.
“Matron? Pliz?” Mrs. Ryma-
chewska, had no words of Aus-
tralian when trouble came into
her life and a summons from
Matron at the beginning of meal-
time could mean noting but
trouble of some sort in this queer
new place. “Pliz?”
The Head said, “Mrs. Ryma-
chewska, if there are only fifty-
nine boys here, why did you
leave sixty dinners?”
“Matron?”
Jimmy half-rose from his seat
in the corner, but Jeffers pulled
him back. The Head turned to
Matron. “Inefficiency, Matron.
Sheer lack of thought. No care,
no thought. You can go now,
Mrs. Rymachewska. Go!”
The door closed behind her
and Matron could dimly hear
the voices in the kitchen . . .
Mrs. Rymachewska explaining,
Mrs. Podolska shrugging it off.
“No worry for us. Matron say
sixty dinners. Matron have sixty
dinners.”
The Head’s voice again. “And
you, Conly; bring that dinner
here!”
“Yes, sir!” Conly brought the
dinner, placed it on the table
in front of the Head, and
returned to his seat.
“Waste, Matron. Sheer waste.”
Matron nodded. “Someone
will eat it in the kitchen. By the
way, where is Gibbs?”
The Head smiled as he put
his empty plate aside. Matron’s
hand went to the bell.
“No, no!” He took Gibbs’s
plate and cut a piece of meat
before he replied. “Gibbs? I
sent Gibbs home!”
Matron was startled. “But. ..
in the middle of exams?”
“Yes, in the middle* of exams.
He went on the nine-thirty. If
you’re interested in his welfare,
Matron, I might mention that I
spoke to his father on the phone
and he will be met on arrival. I
trust that meets with your
approval?”
“It’s getting late. May I ring
for the pudding?”
The Head raised his hand in
a gesture of benignity that
covered the school, the boys, the
Matron and the pudding. “You
may ring, Matron,” he said.
IN the laundry Mrs. Koby-
lanska dumped a basket of
clothes on the bench and went
out into the mid-afternoon glare
for another. “Is not good—
clean, no!” she said to her
daughter, Mrs. Kowaljewa.
“For such place, is good,” her
daughter stated flatly. “This . . .
village! This not city. You
wait, see Sytney ... Is big!”
The younger woman had en-
joyed her two days in Sydney—
one on her way through to a
camp to join her sweetheart and
become Mrs. Kowaljewa; and
one on her way back to join her
mother again in camp here after
Mr. Kowaljewa had run his
motor-cycle into a school-
crossing and killed himself,
along with two schoolchildren
who hadn’t known enough to get
out of his way.
They hadn’t known that Mr.
Kowaljewa had seen many G.I.
Joes in Europe riding motor-
bikes, and many Germans before
them, and that Mr. Kowaljewa
was not a displaced-person
under contract to the Australian
Government, riding to his work
as a daily gardener on the near-
by property of Sir Edward Gil-
ham, but was a Nazi Storm-
trooper and an American Don
R. at the same time, showing
these Australians how a 22-year-
old displaced-person could be a
conquering hero, too.
So it was that Mrs. Kowal-
jewa had seen Sydney. After
her husband’s death she had
decided that so soon as she was
out of her time with the Gov-
ernment she’d give up her job
at the camp to which, on com-
passionate grounds, she had
been permitted to return, and
she would head straight for the
lights and opportunities of the
big city.
In the meantime she’d had the
trip there and back at the Gov-
ernment’s expense, the officer
who had the decision being
malleable where two sweethearts
from Europe were concerned.
She could do her work at the
camp in four hours each day
and still stay on the payroll as a
full-timer, and at the same time
figure on the staff-list at the
school as assistant to her
laundress-mother.
What need it matter to Mrs.
Kowaljewa that the boarders’
clothes were not clean? She
went on folding.
“This only village! Such,
place . . . Pff!”
Her mother* dumping another
basketful, said quickly, “Milcz!
Idzie Matron!” while she stood
bobbing and bowing. Matron
turned over the pile of unsorted
linen. “The Padre’s sheets,
please, Mrs. Kobylanska.”
“The water ... is the water,”
Mrs. Kowaljewa said as she
found the initialled sheets and
handed them to Matron. “My
mother she scrub those clothes,
she wash —oh, the work it is
hard! ” Mrs. Kowaljewa demon-
strated, while Mrs. Kobylanska
bobbed again.
“Pliz?”
Matron said, “Don’t upset
yourself, Mrs. Kowaljewa. Tell
Mother I know she does her
best.” She patted the older
woman’s hand as she passed.
When she was out of sight on
her way to the dormitory-block
Mrs. Kobylanska spat, lit a
cigarette. Her daughter could
spit, too, and she did.
In the dormitory - block
Matron unlocked the Padre’s
room. By right it was Matron’s
room, but to accommodate the
Padre on his more-and-more
frequent visits to the House,
Matron had moved over to a
room in staff-quarters, cramped
and with a bath shared with
Mrs. Podolska, Mrs. Rupa, Mrs.
Rymachewska, Mrs. Koby-
lanska, Jimmy Rymachewski,
Mrs. Rupa’s son and the
widowed truck-driver when they
.came around.
The Padre, elderly and with
an eye to his future, had, when
installed, brought up his books
and tennis-cups and class-ph»to-
graphs and school-pennants, to
establish the permanency of his
biding ; at the same time hand-
ing the key to Matron.
“If you would be so kind,
Matron? That girl Jolanta—she
peeks and pries ; only a child,
really, she means no harm, I'm
sure, but I should take it as a
personal favor, Matron, if you
could make yourself responsible
for the order and cleanliness of
my room.”
THE afternoon passed in the
still, dry heat of midsummer.
At four-o’clock the boys
came in from class. Some
took their books to the dining-
hall, where they sat in enforced
silence until the first bell rang
for tea. Others took cricket-bats
and went purposefully to the
paddock at the back of the
lucerne-patch. Bray, Mashmett
and Collier called on Perry in
sick-bay with a bundle of
comics. Tracy and Vincent
reported to Matron in the
laundry, where they sorted the
stacks of shorts and shirts into
dormitory-piles.
No homework was done in
the dining-hall, no cricket was
played in the paddock, no
comics were read in sick-bay,
errors were made in the sort-
ing: everyone was far too con-
cerned with the mystery of what
had happened to Gibbs.
At half-past-four the tele-
phone rang in the Head’s study.
Before it should wake him from
his afternoon sleep, Mrs. Podol-
ska sent her daughter, who was
visiting her, to find Matron in
the laundry, and Matron picked
up the receiver in time to hear
it click into silence.
She rang the exchange. “Who
was calling us, please?”
Then she wrote on the leather-
bound pad on the polished
jarrah desk, “Head. Please ring
Mr. Surrell. Urgent.” Mr. Surrell,
of the school, was apparently also
(I Continued on page 34)


Unedited Version
Captain Cook’s
Own Story (1)
By M. H. ELLIS
Dance’s portrait of Captain Cook.
One-hundred-and-eighty-six years ago this month Captain
Cook, his scientists and others from the Endeavour were ashore
at Botany Bay. They had first sighted the Australian coast on
April 19, 1770, and landed at Kurnell Point 10 days later. On
May 6 Botany Bay was named, and next day they headed
north, sailed up close to the coast to the Barrier Reef and
beyond, adding new names to geography as they went, and
running into difficulties that would have beaten any less stout-
hearted than themselves and their tough little ship.
It is only now, after all this time, that the first printed
copy of Cook’s own (unedited) version of his tale has been
produced—by the Cambridge University Press for the Hakluyt
Society; the annotation and editing the able and scholarly work
of New Zealander Dr. J. C. Beaglehole.
Its publication has been achieved through the co-operation
of the Commonwealth National Library, which owns the
precious manuscript.
In this article M. H. Ellis summarises details of the pre-
paration for the expedition, the narrative of the voyage, the
mapping of the New Zealand coasts, the landing at Botany
Bay, up to the time of the departure north. In a subsequent
article (to appear next week) Mr. Ellis will continue the story
through the near-shipwreck and other difficulties overcome on
the northern voyage.
IN its more than a century of
existence the Hakluyt Society
has printed and edited for the
use of historians and
geographers no fewer than 200
volumes and brochures; but it
has never undertaken a more
ambitious or useful work than
the publication of the annotated
edition of the Journals of Cap-
tain Cook, of which the first
volume and the portfolio of
charts and drawings have now
been issued.
Three more volumes are to
follow. The completed series will
supply a want much felt by
students of discovery in the
Pacific Ocean, and will supply
it generously. The most authori-
tative and accurate transcriptions
of the journals will be found
in this edition, fully annotated
and introduced, with authority,
by Dr. J. C. Beaglehole, of Vic-
toria University College, New
Zealand.
The first volume runs to 684
pages, inclusive of the biblio-
graphy and index. It deals with,
firstly, all that went before Cook,
which is needed to put his
explorations in proper perspec-
tive in the history of the Pacific
Ocean, and specifically it covers
the voyage of the Endeavour,
1768-1771, the most vital to Aus-
tralians, and in many ways the
most adventurous, compre-
hensive and productive in the
whole history of exploration.
It seems staggering, having
regard to the theories so clearly
expounded by Ptolemy and Pom-
ponius Mela, that the world
should have contained its
curiosity for as long as it did
about the great southern con-
tinent ; almost as staggering that
so large a mark should have been
missed again and again over a
century before it was actually
located and recognised as a
continent, and that then it should
have lain neglected for more than
another century before even the
rough outline of its east coast
was investigated.
Early Venturers
Dr. Beaglehole makes the
reasons fairly clear: the uncom-
prehended nature of prevailing
winds, which took voyagers
whither the breezes blew and not
where they wanted to go; the
fear of unfamiliar tempest, of
reef and lee-shore (the dread of*
every early shipowner); the diffi-
culty of fixing longitude, which
persisted right up to the time of
Cook, and of placing the reason-
ably exact position of ship, atoll
or shore on a chart.
Also, the length of voyage
which every ship must make
under unimaginable conditions
of provenance before even the
potential area of exploration
was reached ; the difficulties of
providoring and of health—of
keeping men at sea for months
on end on a monotonous diet,
or any diet; the tropical diseases
for which remedies had not yet
even been thought of, and which
assailed the crews of all vessels
that touched on the fringes of
the south of Asia (the Indo-
nesian Islands held graveyards in
which sailors from almost every
ship that touched at them were
laid to rest).
Even to get to the Southern
Ocean involved a voyage of
more than six months by what-
ever CQurse was taken, along
sea-routes beset not only by
perils of wind and ocean but
infested also, over long stages,
by pirates and enemies.
However, Australia’s northern
and western coastline and the
western half of its southern
coastline were familiar in better-
than-rough outline before the
great voyagers of 1750-1770 set
out on their Pacific Ocean
adventures.
When in the 17th century
deathless voyagers Tasman,
Pelsart, Dampier and the rest —
did make traverses of parts of
the Australian coast the thought
of the lee-shore and other con-
siderations kept them all away
from the east coast, so that
all who came saw only sand
and barrenness and wild bush
country which offered no tempta-
tions. And it was not till
strategy offered temptation that
the quest became serious with the
British Government.
And then it was not a quest
concerned with this currently
undervalued country but one for
another richer and more
temperate continent which
European authorities suspected
to exist nearer to the South
Pole and, /possibly, South
America.
Lord Egmont, who was First
Lord of the Admiralty when
Byron, Wallis and Carteret sailed
and whose name Cook gave to
Mt. Egmont in New Zealand,
was dreaming, after his venture
into the Falklands, of the find-
ing of a “continent of great
extent never yet explored or
seen between the Straits of
Magellan and New Zealand.”
The fruit of the thought pro-
duced the instructions for the
voyages of Byron and Anson ;
and of Wallis, whose sickly and
scurvy-ridden crews found them-
selves basking on the pleasant
shores of Tahiti the year before
Cook set out on his momentous
voyage—as Beaglehole says,
“one of the greatest achievements
of the human spirit in the history
of the Pacific.”
Wallis, leaving Portsmouth in
August, 1766, with the sound
and seaworthy Dolphin and the
ancient and decrepit and wallow-
ing Swallow, was not back in the
Downs till May, 1768—the
Swallow exactly a year later. But
he had not been nearer to the
Australian coast than Horne
Island, just to the north of Fiji.
Carteret, his second-in-
command in the Swallow, almost
paralleled Wallis’s course, though
crossing it to pass between New
Zealand and New Britain.
French Near-miss
Bougainville did better. His
voyage was the riposte to the
British ventures, and he had
naval ships, for the French (as
Choiseul had said) were ready
to “spare no pains to gain a foot-
ing also in whatever seas the
English attempt to settle in.”
Bougainville’s route almost
duplicated those of Wallis and
Carteret, Roggeveen and Byron,
but with notable variations. After
passing the Horn they had steered
northward, roughly parallel to
the Patagonian coast. They had
woven themselves round the 80th
degree of longitude until they
reached the region of 23 South
Latitude, a little below the Tropic
of Capricorn, when they swept
off in a generally westward
direction, inclining northward
through the delectable —and not
so delectable—archipelagoes of
the mid-Pacific.
Bougainville bore away from
the American coast at a wider
angle ; crossed the 20th Parallel
at the 120th degree West Longi-
tude ; sailed straight onwards,
a bead drawn on the north
Queensland coast; through the
Society Islands; past the
Samoan Group ; across Wallis’s
course near Horne Island, just
north of Fiji; through the New
Hebrides, north of the first
touched land in that region of
Espiritu Santu; and then just
as straight across the Coral Sea.
He named and —vainly—took
possession of every bit of land
in his path. But on the outer
fringes of the Barrier Reef, at the
Diana Bank —coral ahead, and
that in the kind of tracery of
which Flinders wrote that no
man need enter it whose nerves
were not strong enough to thread
the needle through its maze—he
swung away. He had not the
nerve of the great English
navigators.
He swept away north-east,
followed Abound a rectangle of
sea south of Samarai, and in
storm and fog beat past the
breakers of the Louisiades and
back on to Carteret’s general
track. He skirted the north of
New Ireland ; then made for the
Moluccas. He had missed Aus-
tralia by miles.
By the time Bougainville was
home in St. Malo in March,
1769, Cook in the Endeavour
was somewhere near Pitcairn,
seven months out, having sailed
far south of Cape Horn—almost
as far as Roggeveen 48 years
before and then crossed seas
never before crossed by man, in
the loneliest, least-islanded part
Botanical drawing by Parkinson made in Tahiti.
of ths Pacific* where the
Admiralty had hoped he might
find Terra Australis Incognita.
Then he had gone up among
the routes of the earlier explorers
for a while to explore Tahiti and
observe the transit of Venus on
June 3, and had begun the dizzy-
ing convolutions which again
took him southward into the
unknown, to prove what was not
there by questing thrusts, after
which he had made westward
till he reached the New Zealand
coast. He completely circum-
navigated both islands, then
crossed the Tasman, roughly at
the latitudinal level of Cook
Strait.
On April 19, 1770, at 6 p.m.,
in fresh gales and squally
weather, sailing with topsails
close-reefed, they saw land
extending from north-east to
west at a distance of five to six
leagues.
Australia was in sight.
Ship and Men
Dr. Beaglehole has neglected
nothing in his introduction to
the journal of the voyage which,
among other things, explored the
east coast of Australia; easily the
best-documented voyage made to
the southern Pacific, the most
methodically and minutely
recorded in all its phases.
First the . Endeavour is
described. Steps had been taken
to obtain her a month before
Cook’s name came before the
Admiralty as a possible com-
mander of the expedition, but
only two months before he was
commissioned on May 25, 1768.
More than one vessel was
rejected before the Navy Board
intimated to the Admiralty that
“if their Lordships incline to
make choice of a cat-built vessel
for the said service which in their
kind are roomly and will afford
the advantage of stowing and
carrying a large quantity of pro-
visions so necessary on such
voyages, and in this respect pre-
ferable to a man-o’-war, a vessel
of this sort of about 350 tons
may now be purchased in the
Thames if wanted.”
After three vessels had been
surveyed, the one chosen was the
Earl of Pembroke, owner Mr.
Thos. Milner, built at Whitby,
aged three years and nine
months.
Rechristened Endeavour, she
was 97ft. 7in. long (about a third
the length of a modern Navy
frigate) on her lower deck; her
extreme breadth was 29ft. 3in.


Her forecastle was only 18ft.
Bin. long ; her great cabin 23ft.
She was bluff-bowed, square-
sterned, full-built, a typical East
Coast collier.
She was not copper-sheathed,
but was fitted by the Admiralty
with an extra skin of thinner
boards outside her planks. They
put into her six carriage four-
pounders and eight swivel-guns,
and registered her in the
Admiralty ship-list as a “bark.”
The work on her was delayed
by strikes and industrial up-
heavals before she was commis-
sioned, and her new captain with
her —at ss. a day and allowances
as a scientific observer.
A complement of 70 was
engaged. Mr. Green, the
astronomer, and his servant, and
Joseph Banks, Fellow of the
Royal Society, a gentleman well
versed in natural history, with
four servants and four assistants
—Sydney Parkinson and the rest
—were taken aboard, along with
Dr. Solander.
Even when all these were
packed in with tremendous
stores and equipment and a new
pinnace, a yawl and a longboat,
Cook was heard asking for more
swivel-guns to guard them on the
two years’ voyage which was
planned.
Endeavour was no racehorse of
the sea: she could do her best
sailing—seven or eight knots —
with the wind a point or two
abaft the beam. But she had her
advantages: “She is a good
roader and careens easy and
without the least danger,” and
“no sea can hurt her laying too
under main sail or mizzen
balanc’d.”
Her crew was to match. They
were young all round —few over
30 —tough enough to survive the
weather, the hardship and the
grog, and to appear on Banks’s
doorstep in later years in the
role of indigent old sailors from
Botany Bay. Some were veterans
of Byron’s and Wallis’s voyages.
The ship’s cook was one-
handed : in due course he learnt
to deal with gannet-pie, sharks
and shags, and to boil or roast
the first bit of kangaroo.
Some of the complement were
flogged ; some died.
Captain
Considering that Cook did not
have the choosing of his own
crew, beyond five or six who
had been with him on the New-
foundland survey, he would seem
to have been lucky—though not
so lucky as those under him were
in their captain.
He was 40 years old —the ideal
age for the command —tall,
strong-boned and strong-feat-
ured. He had left the grocery-
counter to be apprenticed to the
sea-coal trade. He had gone
into the Navy in the Eagle (60
guns) when he was 27, an experi-
enced mate, hardened in the
North Sea and the Baltic.
He had served under Palliser ;
had been master of the Pem-
broke (64 guns) at 29. He navi-
gated her across the Atlantic,
was transferred to Lord Col-
ville’s Northumberland, in which,
after his charting of the St.
Lawrence for Wolfe’s assault on
Quebec, he earned his admiral’s
encomium as a man of “genius
and capacity,” fit “for greater
undertakings of the kind.”
He was an able marine-
surveyor, solidly read in
astronomy and mathematics by
the standards of the time. He had
all the experience of the New-
foundland survey behind him.
He had brought the schooner
Grenville home across the
Atlantic.
He had a hand scored by the
explosion of a powder-flask—a
branding by which his corpse
was many years later to be
identified on the other side of
the world.
His charts of the Newfound-
land seas had been used by the
Navy and by the great fishing-
fleets. His observation of an
eclipse had brought his name
before the Royal Society as a
person who could safely be given
a hundred guineas to join with
another in observing a transit of
J/enus in the South Seas.
To the Admiralty and the
powers which lay behind British
strategy in the Pacific his splendid
record and the excellence of his
charts made under the most diffi-
cult conditions advertised him as
a captain to whom could confi-
dently be given the order:
Whereas there is reason to imagine
that a continent, or land of great
extent, may be found to the south-
ward of the tract lately made by
Captain Wallis in His Majesty’s ship
che Dolphin..,.
he was to explore southward
after he left Tahiti right down
to the Forties, and then, if he
found no solid earth, was to turn
west and chart and observe and
report on what he found.
This he did, with a dour, dedi-
cated thoroughness and dogged-
ness unbelievable, in the most
adverse circumstances.
He had meticulous regard for
the health of his men, was a
persistent experimentalist in
scurvy-defeating diets. He was
severe in enforcing the use of
the ration which he thought
good ; was prepared to flog meh
who would not eat it, though
rather tending to lead them to
it by example.
He had no chronometer, and
had to embark upon the most
complicated calculations by the
lunar method of Maskelyne and
planetary observation to achieve
accurate navigation and chart-
ing. He was modest, arid as a
recorder of events he owned-up
to what he believed his limita-
tions to be:
I have neither natural nor
acquired abilities for writing.
I have been I may say constantly
at sea from my youth and have
dragged myself (with the assis-
tance of a few good friends)
through all the stations belonging
to a seaman, from prenticeboy
to commander. After such a can-
did confession I shall hope to be
excused from all the blunders
that will appear in this journal.
His Narrative
But, blunders or no blunders,
Australia is fortunate indeed to
own so much of his writing—
his plain, straightforward tale of
“remarkable occurrences on
board his Majesty’s bark En-
deavour,” aimed to give the
undisguised truth and “without
gloss the whole transactions” of
his voyage, along with “such
discriptions of things as I thought
necessary in the best manner I
was capable of.”
He cannot spell even by 18th-
century standards. He has no
respect for punctuation. He
writes “than” for “then,” “their”
or “thier,” “weigh” or “wiegh”
as the fancy takes him. Some-
times what he sets down in a
large, practical hand has
obviously been composed by
others and copied into his own
document Banks and Cook
sometimes parallel each other
almost exactly in descriptions
which are most un-Cooklike in
diction and content.
There are several versions of
Cook’s journal, apart from a
number of other journals and
logs kept by other persons in
the ship.
Those extant include the Can-
berra MS., which is in the Com-
monwealth National Library—
there is a facsimile photostat in
the Mitchell Library—the only
one in Cook’s own handwriting.
It is the one used to provide the
text in this Hakluyt edition.
There are the MS. in the
Mitchell, formerly known as the
Corner MS.; the Admiralty MS.
transcript from the Public Record
Office; the Greenwich MS.,
formerly in the Royal Library at
Windsor, of which King George
VI presented a facsimile to
the Commonwealth National
Library just before his death in
1952. There is also the Palliser
Hudson transcript, and there are
the incomplete MS. log in the
British Museum and also the
official log in the same reposi-
tory.
What may be called the
“original,” because it is in the
handwriting of the chief actor,
is by far the premier version.
It is printed in this Hakluyt
text exactly verbatim, but Dr.
Beaglehole illuminates it by
the use of quotations from
and comparisons with the other
journals, the status and history
of all of which are carefully
summarised.
It is, on the whole, a moment-
ous and precious document, one
which is without compare in the
history of any continent for its
completeness, authenticity and
dramatic detail, particularly of
that part which deals with the
first landings on our eastern
coast, with the careful charting
of its whole length from Point
Hicks northwards, with the trials
and vicissitudes of the adventures
of the first Englishmen who
dwelt for any length of time on
Eastern Australian soil.
All this has its appeal to Aus-
tralians, no less than the author’s
descriptions of the events and
geographical nature and peoples
of Tahiti and New Zealand have
to those directly concerned with
the history of those islands.
The mind becomes a little be-
mused by the detail of what
Cook accomplished, the boldness
of his courage, his readiness to
go on and on while anything
was still hidden, and his outlook
as elucidated in the paragraph
which he wrote on August 17,
1770, after he had taken his tiny
bark through all the perils of
the Barrier Reef, where none had
ever sailed safely before since
the beginnings of man:
The world will hardly admit
of an excuse for a man leaving
a cost unexplored he has once
discovered, if dangers are his
excuse he is than charged with
Timorousness and want of perse-
verance and at once pronounced
the unfitest man in the world to
be employ’d as a discoverer ; if
on the other hand he boldly
encounters all the dangers and
obstacles he meets and is unfor-
tunate enough not to succeed he
is than charged with Temerity and
want of conduct.
He goes on to say that “the
former of these aspersins cannot
with Justice be laid to my
charge and if I am fortunate
enough to surmount all the
dangers we may meet the latter
will never be brought in ques-
tion.”
He must, he wrote, own that
“I have ingaged more among the
Islands and shoals upon this
coast than may be thought with
prudence I ought to have done
with a single Ship and every
other thing considered,” but that
“we should not have been able
to give any better account of
the one-half of it than if we had
never seen it, that is we should
not have been able to say
whether it consisted of main
land or islands and as to its
produce, we must have been
totally ignorant of as being
inseparable with the other.”
Was it not; he asked, “for the
pleasure which naturly results
to a man from being the first
discoverer, even was it nothing
more than sands and shoals, this
service would be insuportable
especially in far distant parts,
like this, short of Provisions and
almost every other necessity”?
Botany Bay
Cook, in March, 1770, after
having been 21 months abroad,
might easily have made straight
for the nearest port, following
his instructions, after he had
accomplished his basic objectives
and produced that astonishingly
accurate outline of the whole of
the 2400-mile coastline of New
Zealand, of which Admiral
Wharton, himself a hydro-
grapher of skill, wrote that
“never had a coast been so well
laid down by a first explorer,”
and that it “must have required
unceasing vigilance and con-
tinual observation, in fair
weather and foul, to arrive at
such a satisfactory conclusion,”
especially with “such a dull
sailer as the Endeavour was and
the short interval allowable to
do the work.”
Cook’s choice of the course he
took was deliberate. On March
31 he had completed all he had
to do in New Zealand. He most
wished to turn south, into the
high Antarctic latitudes on the
way to Cape Horn, in order to
prove whether there existed
down there an Antarctic con-
tinent, but he felt that in the
depth of winter the ship would
not be sufficient for such a
purpose.
To return direct via Cape
Town by passing south of Van
Diemen’s Land without probing
the Antarctic would have
offered no chance of any dis-
covery of moment.
Because of this he decided “to
return by way of the East Indies
by the following route” (and his
officers and scientists agreed):
Upon leaving this [i.e., the
N.Z.] coast to steer to the west-
ward untill we fall in with the
East Coast of New Holland and
than to follow the deriction of
that coast to the northward or
whatever direction it may take
untill we arrive at its nothern-
most extremity, and if this should
be found impracticable than to
endeavour to fall in with the
lands or Islands discovered by
Quiros. With this view at day-
light in the morning [March 31,
or rather April 1 by landsmen’s
reckoning] we got under sail and
put to sea having the advantage
of a fresh gale at SE and clear
weather.
And so, across the Tasman,
about 6 p.m. on April 19, 1770,
running with topsails close-
hauled under fresh gales in
cloudy and squally weather, he
beheld a point of land from NE
to west at a distance of five or
six leagues and named it after
Natives who opposed Cook’s landing at Kurnell.
Lieutenant Hicks, his second in
command, who had first sighted
it.
Dr. Beaglehole, on Sir Ernest
Scott’s authority, identifies what
he saw as the present Cape
Everard, but this view will be
widely challenged.
There was no hesitation about
what was to happen next:
We got the topgallant yards
across, made all sail and bore
away along shore NE for _ the
Easternmost land we had in sight,
being at this time in the Latitude
37° 58’ South, and Long, of 210°
39’ West.
Cook and Banks and Solander
attempted their first landing in
Australia with the ship lying
about two miles from the beach
somewhere near Port Kembla
and the mouth of Tom Thumb
lagoon. They saw palms and
native canoes, but the surf beat
them back, and they sailed on.
At daybreak next morning
they were off Botany Bay, and
the master rowed shoreward in
the pinnace to take soundings at
the entrance.
On Sunday, April 29, with
southerly, clear weather, they
stood into the bay and anchored
off Kurnell Point, where their
landing was fiercely opposed by
two natives, to whom they threw
beads and nails, while Tupia,
their Tahitian, tried in vain to
speak to them.
Firing above them did not
break their courage, which still
held even when one of them
was peppered with small-shot.
The landing-party had to drive
them off with a further dis-
charge after they had thrown
their spears.
The party examined the
native huts made of bark. They
dug a little hole to find water.
They cut wood. Cook went in
the pinnace to explore the bay.
They tried in vain to entice the
natives into friendliness. They
went to the beach on the La
Perouse side and hauled the
seine, and came back with 3001 b.
of fish.
They took their observations.
They buried Forby Sutherland,
seaman, the first Englishman to
lie on the east Australian shore
—he had died of consumption.
They explored the marshes of
Kurnell, and Dr. Solander had
a swift glimpse of an animal
which looked like a rabbit, and
he found dung which belonged
to some beast that ate grass, and
which, they judged, “could not
be less than a deer.”
They found the track of a dog
“or some such animal.”
They saw where the natives
had stepped the palm-trees to
climb them, and where they had
felled trees and barked them.
They encountered, on May
Day, their first eucalypts. And
Gore, the ship’s sportsman, a
veteran of the crews of Wallis
and Byron, came back from a
hunt for oysters with the local
abos. following like ghosts
20yds. in the rear.
The explorers appear on one
excursion to have got as far ds
the country round Sans Souci,
near the mouth of George’s
River. They caught huge sting-
rays and leatherjackets.
And on May 6 Cook mentions
naming the harbor Botany Bay,
from “the great quantity of new
plants etc Mr Banks and Dr
Solander collected in this place.”
The bay and the shores, the
timber and the shrubs, the
cockatoos and the lorikeets and
the parrots and the crows —all
“very boutifull birds” are
mentioned, and also the natives,
their lack of clothes and their
adornment.
Carefully it is told how every
morning the English colors were
displayed and an inscription cut
into one of the trees setting
forth the ship’s name and the
date.
On May 7, a Sunday, “having
seen everything this place
afforded we at daylight in the
morning with a light breeze and
put out to sea.”
About noon, being' about
three miles from land, they were
abreast “of a bay or harbor
wherein there appeared to be
safe anchorage, which I call’d
Port Jackson.”
How sorry he would have
been to have thus passed it had
he lived to know what lay
within its heads!
(To be concluded next week)


Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
m-
Thanks to
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3n), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Acting Justice Bradford.
No. 78 of 1955.
BETWEEN VALERIA ELLEN JUNE
POULTNEY Plaintiff and JAMES HENRY
POULTNEY Defendant.—TAKE NOTICE
of Trial of this action before a Judge
•without a Jury, at Rockhampton, on
Monday, the Fourteenth day of May, 1956,
at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon. Dated
this Sixteenth day of April. 1956. —REES
R. & SYDNEY JONES, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff, 178 Quay Street, Rockhampton.
To the abovenamed Defendant, JAMES
HENRY POULTNEY, Care Mrs. E. E.
POULTNEY, Richmond Road, Morning-
side, Brisbane.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Sticklers for figures felt confi-
dent that Advocate would return
to his best form in the Rosehill
Handicap last Saturday: he was
in that - miie-and-a-quarter with
8.7, considered a luxury impost,
and certainly the lowest weight
carried by the six-year-old horse
for a long time.. He’d been
weighted at 9st., but the mount
was given to W. Erickson, a
capable apprentice. But figures
don’t make horses win ; he was
last home.
The consistent Magic Carpet
11, in the Rosehill Handicap,
won his third successive race.
Now, he did have good race-
form: he had won at Randwick
three days earlier, and had been
given only an additional 51b.;
he had the more-experienced
N. Sellwood in the saddle ; and
as he walked round the
mounting-enclosure he seemed
the fittest horse in the race. This
caused a last-minute rush for the
grey, which ousted Advocate
from favoritism. Lightly-
weighted Brave Scot tried to
lead all the way, but was well
beaten, while Landy, who looked
a bit drawn following consistent
racing, was a moderate third.
Randwick trainer M. McCar-
ten, who has been getting among
the big fish at Hat Head, on the
N.S.W. North Coast, could
lengthen his holiday, because his
foreman, stable - hands and
jockey N. Sellwood are doing a
good job in his absence. Fore-
man Neville Begg has prepared
Magic Carpet for the grey’s
latest wins ; another member of
the team, King Boru, was also
successful at Rosehill on Satur-
day. Begg, who has been with
McCarteri for several years, was
promoted foreman when W.
Jarvis was granted a No. 1
trainer’s licence. Magic Carpet
was not entered for the Q.T.C.
Brisbane Cup carnival; some
that were finished down the run-
ning at Rosehill, and might just
as well be kept in Sydney.
Royal Society, Randwick two-
year-old winner on Anzac Day,
is another of the McCarten lot
to win while his mentor has been
landing fish. A good-looking
colt by Dhoti (imp.) from
Princess Betty, Royal Society
could develop into a good per-
former. Princess Betty, bred in
France in 1948, is by Le Pacha
from Scottish Thistle (imp.) by
Cameronian. She has the
Carbine blood in her make-up.
Jolly Beggar was a Perth
champion about 40 years ago,
his successes including the
W.A.T.C. Derby and the Perth
Cup. Crossing to Sydney, he
won the 1913 Doncaster and
All-Aged Stakes, and in Mel-
bourne the C.M. Lloyd Stakes.
Owner Paddy Connolly won a
fortune with that grand per-
former, whose name appears in
the background of Avales,
impressive winner of the Rose-
hill Parramatta Stakes. Avales
had won minor events at pro-
vincial fixtures ; latest success
was his first in the metropolitan
area. He is an Avalanche (imp.)
four-year-old gelding from Non-
chalant by Marconigram (imp.),
tracing back to Trenton,
A couple of seasons ago there
was a horse racing in Sydney
that had seven owners, but
they didn’t make much money
from the venture. Grenoble,
stylish winner of the Rosehill
Two-year-old Handicap, has five
owners, one of them the colt’s
trainer, Frank Lewis. Two of
the quintet are medical men.
Grenoble turned them on a fine
finishing-run, the Bois de Rose
(imp.) youngster coming from
last to first. Patient riding by
J. Thompson in the early part
of the race had its reward. Bred
by R. R. Moore, of Yarraman
Park stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
Grenoble is a first-foal from
Quest by Yaralla from Mina G
by Magpie (imp.) from Queen
Ingoda by Comedy King (imp.).
Though races for apprentices
claiming a 71b.-allowance are
not popular with the public, and
though the Novice Handicap of
this nature at Rosehill had the
weakest class of any metro-
politan fixture for some time, the
race produced the best finish of
the afternoon. The riders of the
placegetters were all apprentices
attached to Rosehill stables, and
Brian Cornish, on the winner,
had his first race-success. Inden-
tured to trainer S. O. Weber, he
was seen to advantage in the
close finish. His mount, Windsor
Rose, trained by Weber, is a
Delville Wood (imp.) three-year-
old filly from Geranium.
Racegoers finished on the
wrong note at Rosehill, when
William Charles caught his
stable by surprise and won the
Welter at long odds. The four-
year-old horse, one of Les
Quinlan’s team, was not thought
ready for a first-up win ; he had
not appeared since scoring at
Randwick early in March. Never
worse than third, William
Charles was ridden-out by E.
Swinton to hold off the better-
fancied, but disappointing,
Borgia, with favorite Co
Supreme third. William Charles
is among the entrants for the
Brisbane Cup and the Moreton
Handicap, and is to travel north
for that double. In the mean-
time he will be given another
race or two to bring him to his
top.
Staying mare Pushover re-
turned to her best form in win-
ning the Moonee Valley Chair-
man’s Handicap (13 furlongs) on
Saturday. She wasn’t greatly
fancied, but won stylishly, and
earned a start in the Adelaide
Cup. Though owned in Adelaide,
she is trained by J. P. Lewis in
Melbourne. Last Saturday’s run
was her first since her good
fourth in the Sydney Cup.
Feature of the racing at
Moonee Valley was the riding
of four winners by Reg Heather
—Cowboy Bill (9/2), Straloch
(6/4), Mac’s Amber (7/2) and
First Century (6/1). Heather has
now ridden 21 winners in Mel-
bourne this season, but he’s a
long way from the lead, which
is held by W. Williamson (36).
R. Hutchinson is in second place
with 33 wins.
In half-a-dozen starts as a
two-year-old, Ora Bird was a
total failure on Sydney tracks.
In Brisbane on Saturday he
started favorite in an open-
betting Maiden and won easily.
Raced and trained by A. Strong,
the colt is a Brimstone (imp.)
three-year-old from Blackbird
by Magpie (imp.) from Ascalon
by Sarchedon (imp.). Black-
bird has thrown several winners,
chief among them Swan River,
Wirralie and Dark Warbler.
Most disappointing of her pro-
geny was Nargoon, who cost
6500gns. as a yearling, but
proved an almost total failure
as a racing-proposition.
Segenhoe studmaster Lionel
Israel appears to have uncanny
luck in retaining thoroughbreds
foaled at his Scone property.
Another was added to the list
when Egyptian Veil had an easy
win in a Newcastle Maiden
J uvenile Handicap. Egyptian
Veil, of the successful Nilo
(imp.) breed, is from a Veilmond
mare, Yasmak, who has thrown
a number of winners, among
them Veiled Art and Castus.
Kembla two-year-old winner
Mafldy Bruge, a smart filly by
Brueghel (imp.) from Ray o’
Lite by Midstream (imp.), was
sold at auction as a yearling to
Oakleigh stud, but will be raced
on lease by L. Burke until July,
1958. The filly is trained at Rose-
berry by Sid Nicholls, and had
galloped like an early winner.
Silent, a winner of the A.J.C.
Summer Cup, is related to her.
“P.0.M.C.”: That pretty good
horse Landy’s misfortune in fill-
ing 10 successive placings with-
out Winning has, as far as I
know, no parallel in Sydney
racing for the past 50 years;
nearest to it in stiff luck was
John Halifax’s six seconds in a
row before winning a Flying at
Rosehill twelve years ago.
Ironically enough, Landy, a
young horse, might yet prove
“ Didn't see you on the bowling-green this
morning, Slugger.”
himself a better animal than any
of those that have beaten him.
“Sawtell”: At a Mornington
(Vic.) race-meeting the placings
in a division of a two-year-old
event were all filled by Carbon
Copy progeny Chorus Boy,
Amber Warning and Carbon
Lady. By no means unique, of
course, but it brought to mind
the great promise of this Helios
(imp.) stallion, formerly a cham-
pion three-year-old. Although
he has had only a few winners
in the Melbourne metropolitan
area this season, his progeny
have been placed second on at
least 14 occasions.
* * *
The breeding-side of trotting
was dealt a blow a week or so
back, when sires Van Ayr
and Mission King passed on. As
proof of Van Ayr’s calibre as a
sire, first and second in a
recent Harold Park event —
Kildare’s Star and Ayr Again
—were his progeny. Active
Ayr, one of the best pacers in the
land, belongs to his stock. Van
Ayr is a half-brother to Spring-
field Globe, whose death last
year was a bitter pill to breeding.
Van Ayr was 19. Mission King,
known best through his speedy
son Red Flare, and by one or
two other up-and-comings, took
the champion sash at this year’s
Sydney Royal.
4- +
All three Rugby Union
matches at North Sydney on
Saturday were good. South
Harbor won the two games
against North Harbor, though
in the main game of the two they
were somewhat lucky. Forced
retirement early of North’s Test-
centre Jim Phipps clearly handi-
capped the side ; this showed-up
immediately in the much greater
freedom with which South’s
inside-backs moved.
Newcastle v. Country was a
spectacular exposition of the
code. As but one example, New-
castle fullback Curley, taking a
high punt in his own 25 and
having side-stepped two tacklers,
ran through the field to within
feet of the line before he was
pulled down: a run which was
suitably capitalised by a try.
Fittingly the game ended in a
16-all draw. Two who played
were picked in the State side,
veteran Newcastle half Cyril
Burke and Orange front-rower
Strachan (though he later with-
drew) ; but there must have been
others well in the running.
N.S.W. meets Queensland, in
Brisbane, under floodlights to-
night (Wednesday) and in day-
light next Saturday. A few
comments on the N.S.W.
team: Had Test-winger Staple-
ton (omitted) been picked, it
would have been on reputation
only (judging from his effort on
Saturday); winger Derry Hill,
from University, one to keep in
mind ; the other winger, Rand-
wick’s Alan Morton, a bit lucky
to be picked before his brother
Peter, who gave a tiptop display
for Country against Newcastle;
skipper Alan Cameron, still a
great force in lineouts and in
the solid bullocking forward-
work ; afid, as loose-forwards,
three great backers-up, Cross,
Hughes and Thornett, always on
the ball, always quick to seize
any slight chance to score.
On the Queensland side: Six
internationals in it and one, five-
eighth Ross Sheil, who would
have been yet another had he
been available to go to South
Africa in 1953 ; one of the six,
winger Garth Jones, in try-
scoring mood this season (in
eight days he crossed 21 times,
seven of them in Brisbane’s 60-6
win over Toowoomba); another,
Paul Mooney, probably the best
Union hooker in Australia now ;
fullback John O’Neill, previously
a centre, never played fullback
before this season ; two brothers
in the forward line-up, inter-
national Col Forbes and Len
(N.S.W. has two brothers in the
backs, two of the three Phipps
boys); and, captain in the night
game, 20-year-old half Des
Connor, youngest ever to lead
Queensland.
* * *
Geelong remains on top of
the V.F.L. after its third-round
win over Hawthorn, 16.16-15.10.
Geelong had to play its best to
defeat the Hawks, whose new
ruckman, Kaine, was a force all
through and kicked seven goals.
Melbourne defeated Footscray
9.13-5.11 in a hard-fought, even
battle, with Melbourne winning
the game in the last quarter.
Essendon, smarting under its
defeat by Fitzroy the previous
round, outplayed North, 15.17-
9.11, while Fitzroy, with
Ongarello at the spearhead also
kicking seven, knocked over
South, 13.16-10.13. Richmond
Tigers clawed Collingwood
Magpies, 17.12-11.12, while
Carlton got up enough steam to
beat St. Kilda, 13.9-9.11.
“Goalsneak”: At last he’s
been found —the man in Mel-
bourne who isn’t a football-
addict ! Carlton, in the renowned
Victorian Football League (to be
distinguished from the somewhat
lesser Football Association),
is a club with pride in its fine
tradition, though it has fallen
more-or-less on evil days. A
promising recruit couldn’t get to
training on time —and so, by
club rule, couldn’t be considered
for selection —because he didn’t
knock-off in time to get there;
so the Blues’ secretary rang his
boss to try to fix matters. But he
couldn’t seem to make any head-
way. and he gave-up altogether
when the wage-payer asked
“Carlton? . . . Carlton? . . .
Where do they play anyway,
Association or League?’’
* * *
In Sydney club-Soccer two
New Australian sides, Sydney
Austral and Prague, were pro-
moted to first-division this year.
The promotion has been
deserved. On Saturday Sydney
Austral, of Dutchmen mainly,
held the strong Leichhardt side
to a 1-all draw, in one of the
best games seen in Sydney club-
matches. Austral is undefeated
in the first division, while
Prague, which beat Woonona-
Bulli 5-2 on Saturday, is also
doing all right.
* * *
Today (Wednesday) the Aus-
tralians begin their cricket-tour
proper, against, as always, Wor-
cestershire. In his four matches
against the county Bradman
made three double-centuries and
a single one, while in 1953 Miller
made 220 not-out and Hole and
Archer a century each. For the
first time since the 1930 game
Worcester’s attack will not be
opened by Reg Perks ; he retired
last year after taking 100 county-
wickets in 16 consecutive sea-
sons, second-best such effort on
record.
“Spud”: Last cricket-season
a station-owner on the Darling
regularly motored at least 60
miles down to Wentworth
(N.S.W.) for Saturday-cricket.
As many of the matches were
played at Mildura (Vic.), he
often had to go a further 18
miles or so. Incidentally, his
team (Curlwaa - Wentworth
seconds) won the pennant, dis-
missing its opponents for 7 in
the second innings of the final
on a difficult wicket. He himself
took 3-3 in this innings.
* * *
“Tim”: It was lately claimed
that white boxing-gloves were
used for the first time in the Dai
Dower v. Robert Meunier ban-
tam fight in London —a tame
pat-a-cake affair ending in favor
of the Welshman in round-eight.
Photographs on my file show that
white gloves were used when our
Bill Lang fought Sam Langford
in London, February, 1911.
Lang, suffering from a cut eye
and sprained right ankle, the
result of a motor-accident the
day before the fight, was badly
advised by his corner to box
Langford, a master gloveman.
For five rounds Lang was
heavily punished. In the sixth
round the tough Australian
champion decided to fight his
own way. For the first time in
the fight he set himself to hit,
and in a rally knocked Lang-
ford down, and in the excitement
hit the negro before he was on
his feet. Lang therefore lost on
a foul.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insnrance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Missing Friend
WILL GEORGE O. HAYWARD, formerly
of Peterborough, Ontario, Canada, and
the State of Washington, U.S.A., who
came to South Australia about 1913, or
anyone knowing of him, please communi-
cate with CLELAND, TESSDALE SMITH
& HARRIS, 7 Pirie Street, Adelaide?
Divorce Notice
TO PAWLO BENT formerly of Bellevue
Western Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife KATHE BENT has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce on
the ground of desertion for a continuous
period of three years or more. If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court Perth within
FORTY clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Court may
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED
this 17th day of April, 1956. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
SHEILA McCLEMANS, of 98 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
World’s Finest Airliner
is serving
Australia
LOCKHEED
Super Constellation
across \
\
6 Continents'
*
and
over
the
7 Seas
The latest in a line of distinguished
Lockheed airliners, the 1049 G
version of the Super Constellation
is serving Australia.
Enjoy the quiet comfort and
speed of the world’s most
luxurious airliner. 21 world
airlines feature Super
Constellation service over
connecting routes which cross
every ocean and span
every continent.
Qantas and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines afford
Super Constellation. service to 5 Continents
from Australia.
COMING World’s Longest
Range Airliner—the Super Constel-
lation 1649 A with its revolutionary
high-speed, long range wing. It will
make possible NON-STOP flights
between the capitals of the world.
LOCKH EED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION Burbank • California • U.S.A. / Look to Lockheed for Leadership!
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of booklet Theatre
Royal, by C. H. Bertie.- —6310.
To buy copies of “Collier’s” maga-
zine for July 1, 1944, and March 10,
1945.-6304.
To buy copy of What Butterfly Is
That?— 63os.
Copy (in good order) of double-
page color-spread of tablets and cap-
sules, published in a Sydney journal
(possibly “A.M.”) about two years
ago. For use as the basis of a chart
to be used in the casualty-department
of a hospital as an aid to identifica-
tion of medicines involved in
poisoning-cases.—63o6.
To buy (in good condition) the
following Lionel Lindsay etchings—
or any others, Australian in subject
and sentiment: “Mates,” “Sunup,”
“The Fossicker,” “Catch,” “Cobb &
C0.”—6307.
To buy copy of Ernest Heming-
way’s Fiesta, published in America as
The Sun Also Rises. —6308.
Information. Sought
(1) How did early English and
Scottish banks differ in regard to the
overdraft-system ? (2) How did they
stand on joint-stock banking ?
(1) The practice of granting loans
of a given sum on current account
against the customer’s own security
(or, more usually, against the security
of two guarantors) was universal in
Scotland from way back, but was long
regarded by the English banks as
“illegitimate banking,” involving risks
they held undesirable. Legitimate
banking meant advancing money by
discounting bills: when money was
advanced on current account in Eng-
land the banks preferred the security
of a bill or promissory-note. The
overdraft-system, developed in Scot-
land, had since been generally accepted
in England, and has long been a
feature of Australian banking.
(American banks prefer to lend money
by the “note”-system, which involves
a written undertaking to repay the
loan at a stated rate of interest
within a given time.) (2) The system of
joint-stock banking was enjoyed in
England only by the Bank of Eng-
land, all other banking-houses being
private concerns —“country banks.”
But the difficult economic conditions
of the early-19th century hit the
English private banks hard, broke
the joint-stock banking monopoly of
the Bank of England, and made an
opening for the larger Scottish banks
to enter the field of joint-stock bank-
ing, in which they soon became
established. The leading banks in
England today are joint-stock com-
panies.
* * * *
Proper method of cultivating
bouvardias ?
Plant in a sunny situation, in a
well-drained, rich soil. The ground
round the roots should be mulched
with well-rotted manure, and the
plants should be given a soaking of
water at the roots every week and a
spraying every day or two in the dry
season. Best time for planting is
early summer. When well established,
give them an application of weak
liquid-manure every week or so. The
growths can be trained with stakes or
wire hoops to make a wide bush,
every shoot of which will be open to
the light. In winter cut down to the
ground ; where severe frosts are ex-
perienced the plants should be given
a heavy mulching of manure around
the base. It may be safer to lift the
roots and winter them under a frame
or in a greenhouse.
* * * *
List of German leaders tried at
Nuremberg ?
Hermann Goering, Prussian Prime
Minister, Reich Minister for Air and at
one time Hitler’s successor;
Rudolf Hess, one-time Deputy
Fiihrer ; Joachim von Ribbentrop,
Reich Foreign Minister ; Robert Ley,
leader of the labor-front ; Alfred
Rosenberg, gauleiter of Poland ; Hans
Frank, a former Governor-General
of Poland ; Hans Kaltenbruriner,
Heydrich’s successor as chief of the
German security-police; Julius
Streicher, Governor of Franconia ;
Marshal Keitel, chief-of-staff and
commander of the Wehrmacht; Walter
Funk, Reich Minister of Economics ;
Hjalmar Schacht, leading German
financial expert ; Gustav Krupp von
Bohlen, head of Krupps ; Admirals
Raeder and Doenitz; Baldur von
Schirach, founder of the Hitler
Youth; Fritz Sauckel, responsible for
the Reich’s total mobilisation ; Prof.
Albert Speer, Reich Minister of Arma-
ments and War Production ; Martin
Bormann, Deputy Ftihrer after Hess;
Franz von Papen, diplomat ;
General Alfred Jodi ; Baron von
Neurath, Foreign Minister before
Ribbentrop ; Arthur von Seyss-
Inquart, one-time Minister in the
Austrian Government and later Nazi
Commissioner for Holland ; and Hans
Fritsche, Deputy Propaganda Minister.
Ley committed suicide (Oct. 25, 1945)
before the trial opened; Bormann was
tried in his absence ; and Krupp von
Bohlen’s physical and mental condi-
tion precluded his trial. Of the
prisoners present, three (Schacht, Von
Papen and Fritsche) were acquitted,
12 sentenced to death and the
rest to varying terms of imprisonment.
(Goering suicided before he was to
have been hanged.) This was the first
and most important trial (Nov., 1945, 1
to Oct., 1946) ; there were subsequent
trials of other German generals and
administrators.
* * * *
(1) List of Richard Rodgers’s
musical scores and dates of their com-
position ? (2) What is his address ?
(1) Richard Rodgers was born in
New York on June 28, 1902, and
educated at Columbia University and
the Institute of Musical Art, New
York. His musical scores include
“Lido Lady” (1926), “One Dam Thing
After Another” (1927), “Evergreen”
(1930), “America’s Sweetheart” (1931),
“Jumbo” (1935), “On Your Toes”
(1936), “Babes in Arms” (1937), “I’d
Rather Be Right” (1937), “I Married
an Angel” (1938), “The Boys from
Syracuse” (1938), “Too Many Girls”
(1939), “Higher and Higher” (1940),
“Pal Joey” (1940), “By Jupiter”
(1942), “Oklahoma” (1943),
“Carousel” (1945), “Allegro” (1947),
“South Pacific” (1949), and “The
King and I” (1951). (2) His address,
as given in the 1955 Who’s Who, is
c/o Rodgers and Hammerstcin, 488
Madison-avenue, New York 22.
* * * *
(1) If a married couple have a joint
current account with a bank (either
to operate ) could either party draw on
the account in the event of the death
of the other, or would probate inter-
vene ? (2) In the same circumstances,
would probate affect an insurance-
policy taken-out as tenants-in-
common ?
(1) If the couple are joint-owners
of the bank account, death of either
party would not stop operation on
the account. If, however, they are
tenants-in-common of the account,
the death of either party would pre-
vent the survivor’s operating on it
until probate had been sworn and the
estate finalised. Whether they are
joint-owners or tenants-in-common
will depend on the way in which the
application to open the account was
compiled. It is advisable to check
with the bank-manager on this point.
(2) If the couple are tenants-in-
common of the insurance-policy,
death of either party would not delay
payment, provided: (a) the survivor
can prove that he or she did have an
insurable interest in the deceased (in
the case of man and wife, it generally
follows that they do have an insurable
interest in each other); ( b ) that the
premiums on the policy have been
paid out of a joint-account. It is
advisable both to see the premiums on
the policy are paid out of a joint-
account and by cheque and to lodge
the policy with the bank, making it
known to the manager (for noting on
his file) that man and wife are
tenants-in-common of the policy. If
there is then any hold-up of payment
by the insurance-company, on the
death of either party, the bank will
usually advance against the value of
the policy.
Brief Answers
M.L.M.: Probably the 2838-tons
steamship Australian, wrecked on
Bachon Head Reef, 30 miles from
Darwin, on Nov. 17, 1906, when on
voyage from Sydney to Hong Kong.
No lives were lost, but because of
strong tides there was considerable
difficulty in landing in boats. Also,
Australia, a schooner, was stranded
at the Manning River on June 16,
1904, but was refloated. Australia
(6000 tons), R.M.S., was wrecked at
Port Phillip Heads on June 21, 1904,
while in the charge of a pilot. Much
cargo was salvaged by blowing the
ship to pieces. No lives were lost.
A 92-tons schooner Australia was
wrecked on South West Rocks, Trial
Bay, on Feb. 22, 1911. Australian
(191 tons steamship) met a similar
fate at Wardang Island in May, 1912.
En route to Sydney from Mazatlan,
Mexico, in ballast, 1953-tons Aus-
tralian left in Dec., 1907, and wasn’t
heard of again... .5.0’8.: The first
issue of British Solomon Islands
stamps was made on February 14,
1907, and showed a view of Tulagi
from the sea, with a native canoe jn
the foreground. There were seven
values, from to Is. The next
issue (November, 1908) was of the
same design, but slightly smaller, and
consisted of eleven values, from £d.
to 5s H. 8.: The wearing of
epaulettes by naval and military
officers is an ornamental derivative of
the epauliere, the steel plate which
protected the shoulder of the armor-
clad man-at-arms of the Middle Ages.
It was first used to mark distinctive
grades of ranks in France about the
middle of the 18th century U.:
Whenever a wind blows across an
obstruction, there is an up-draft ;
this will blow some rain away from
the rim of a rain-gauge and reduce
the registration. However, at normal
wind-velocities the effect is not very
pronounced J.J.: Write Gaston
C. Renard, Antiquarian Bookseller,
Box 5295, G.P.0., Melbourne....
P.McG.: A. D. Hope’s The Wander-
ing Islands was published by Edwards
and Shaw, Sydney ; price 15s. It was
reviewed in The Bulletin of October
19, 1955 J.S.: The moon is
238,840 miles from the earth
R.N.W.: Write British Drama League
(N.S.W.), 44 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney U.: There is no statute in
Queensland providing for their
licensing Inquirer: The law relat-
ing to insanity in Queensland is fully
set-out in the Mental Hygiene Act,
1938 S.H.R.: (1) To magnetise a
compass-needle, a strong permanent-
magnet is required; the north end of
the compass-needle is rubbed against
the south end of the magnet with a
wiping action. (2) The “U”-magnet
should be sent to an electrical house
that has a magnetiser. (Some motor-
service stations have facilities.) This
would then be suitable for magnetis-
ing compasses M.F.D.: The tree
described is probably Ficus hiltii, one
of the figs. Most nurserymen stock
this tree, including Hazlewood Bros.,
Epping, N.S.W. It should grow on
sheltered positions on the lower Blue
Mountains, but will not stand heavy
frosts. It is slow-growing -in the
early stages R.J.F.: Suggest any
one of the following: Tuttle’s Track
and Field Athletics (51s. 6d.; postage,
Is. 5d.); Stampfl’s Running (225. 6d.;
lid.); Canham’s Track Events (9s.
3d.; 9d.); Cromwell’s Championship
Technique in Track and Field (595.
6d.; Is. 9d.) —all obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., Box 1516,
G.P.0., Sydney, or Box 20905, Mel-
bourne K.C.G.: The review of
Thor Heyerdahl’s 821-page American
Indians in the Pacific (Allen and
Unwin) appeared in The Bulletin of
Dec. 24, 1952. A copy has been sent
to you.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor ; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.A.: Nothing is more calculated
to make the morning-after-the-night-
before worse than to be greeted at
9 a.m. by a verse of that description.
D.K.: Still missing the bus
J.P.: All those flood poems almost
washed us away J.K.S.: Well, at
least it moved on with a smile
T.F.A.: Called a doctor to the lead-
ing-lady with the “strange, divided
heart” B.B.: “The Optimist” was
handed over to the office pessimist
to deal with as he thought fit....
L.F.: Cannot see any of them filling
in “a comer of The Bulletin” ....
R.D.L.: Such, we are afraid, are
among the penalties of autumn....
P.R.C.: We shall leave you to your
bumble-bees... .L.D.: You do not
appear to have had a happy time in
Sydney... .H.L.W.: When last heard
Aunt Sally was explaining her ail-
ments to the other inmates of the
basket A.E.K.: Better send it to
the gent, who had Argentine-ants in
his pants A.J.: It went out on the
ebb-tide F.H.C.: Nothing un-
usual about that donnybrook....
F.F.: Both are underweight H.C.:
You had better lock-up those milk-
bar bravadoes... .G.F.: Several
hundred of the same sort take a
nose-dive into the basket every year.
C.G.: “I’m Dodging Along.”
Ah, well, goodbye W. 8.: Some-
thing in the refrain:
Oh, a starlit night and King’s Cross
Are the time and place for mel
But the rest hardly measures up to
it....E.5.: There is little hope for
the man who tries to rhyme “saw”
with “door” B.McK.: You take
a long time to say very little, and it
takes longer to puzzle out some of
the obscurities K.J.: Avoid the
album-type of verse and don’t send
so much next time M.W.H.:
That yarn of yours about the railway-
traveller and the cigar-ash was a
mouldy chestnut more than half-a-
century ago G.L.: Horace may
have won the girl but he wins you no
banknotes G.H.D.: That joker
wouldn’t raise a smile in a barber’s
shop on a wet Saturday morning
W.P.V.: Over-redolent of Keats, it
is the sort of verse that helps to
fill university - magazines C.V.:
You’ve got an infinite capacity for
using six words where one would do
better.... W.C.McD.: More preten-
tious than poetic... .8.L.: Must find
room for at least one stanza:
The one thing you’ll recall is,
If on a foreign strand,
Is the good old eucalyptus
Prom your native land.
L.L.: It had a funeral-march to
the basket... .T.M.: The only read-
able part is the quotation -from
Isaiah G.M.H.: Australians must
eat frightful suppers judging from
dream-stories here received....
J.F.D.: Another danger you’ve dis-
covered on our beaches, eh? :
For many a future co-re.
By the zephyr breezes fanned
Allured by half-clad sirens
Meets his trouble on the sand.
S.E.W.: Forty-four sheets of
unmitigated and unredeemed doggerel
on over a score of subjects. Next
customer, please!... .H.F.: Your
handwriting is a sheer joy; your verse
is a sore trial J.T.: “Oh, have
you known a brown-eyed, gold-
tanned maiden?” Lots of ’em, but
we never pelt them with platitudes.
A.D.P.: True, son, true, but you
fail to make stately verse of it: —
What fearful satire on our sense and
culture
Is the terrible spectacle of modern
sculpture.
Man’s beautiful, classical and noble
feature
Is presented as that of a degenerate
creature.


$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
far.
WELL
LININGS
SEPTIC TANKS
o
□
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMS LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH. *
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
OSJIUJVAA
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers,
HRAn OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
PARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANB
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIDDLE EAST PRIMER
A “U.S. News and World
Report” survey of a “size-
able part of the world which
seems to be coming apart”:
“Great Britain, once the major
Power in the Mediterranean,
today is almost pushed out,
struggling to keep a toehold.
Israel, a small nation of
1,800,000 people, is surrounded
by Arab countries sworn
enemies—who are arming.
“All through this seething
area are American air-bases.
Everywhere, just below the sur-
face, is the hand of the Soviet
Union guiding the Communist
trouble-makers that Russia
supports.
“This stirring of animosities,
encouraged by outside agitators,
is increasing, in part, because of
the decline in power of Britain
and France. These two nations,
unchallenged in times past, today
lack the means to ensure stability
against a rising tide of nation-
alism.
Egypt
“Today’s trouble seems to
head up in Egypt. French officials
insist that arms and guidance for
rebel-forces in North Africa have
been flowing out of Egypt. In the
Middle East it is Egypt that leads
the Arabs in the build-up of
armies for use in any war
against Israel. Egypt led the way
in accepting arms from Com-
munist countries.
“Premier Gamal Abdel
Nasser of Egypt is planning a
Moslem bloc of nations, inde-
pendent and strongs—with Egypt
as the leader of that bloc.
“Egypt was under British occu-
pation from 1882 to 1922. Even
then, when Egypt was given
limited independence, Britain
maintained troops in Egypt to
guard the Suez Canal. But, after
World War 11, Egypt demanded
complete withdrawal of British
troops. Under pressure also
applied by the U.S., Britain
finally agreed, and the last of
the British troops are due to be
out of Suez by next July. This
leaves to Egypt the protection of
that vital waterway, and also
frees Egypt of the restraint that
British forces once provided.
“Now Egypt is arming to lead
the Arab world. To arm, Egypt
sought weapons from the United
States and other Western
countries. When U.S. hesitated,
the Soviet bloc jumped in with
offers to supply arms. Today the
Egyptian Air Force is equipped
with MIG-15s. Other arms are
flowing into Egypt in quantity
and —if the French are right—
some arms are finding their way
across North Africa as well.
“Russia is out in the open as
a power in North Africa —quite
a surprise and jolt to nations of
the West.
Cyprus
“In Cyprus the British main-
tain the airfields and troops that
are vital to their remaining posi-
tion in the Middle East. Now
Cyprus is in the midst of violent
.trouble, with Britain using mili-
tary forces to hold people in
check.
“Britain took over the island
in 1878, when the old Turkish
Empire was threatened by
Russia.
“Now the 400,000 Greek
Cypriots are demanding that
Britain get out and give the
island to Greece. Turkey,
reluctant to see its old rival,
Greece, get a stronghold so near
Turkish land, is objecting.
“Britain has offered the Cyp-
riots self-government, but insists
upon keeping control of defence
and foreign affairs. The U.S. is
caught in the middle in a dispute
between its allies Britain,
Greece and Turkey. And deep
underneath are known to be
Soviet-trained Communist agents
stirring-up violence.
“Cyprus is important to the
British as their last British-
owned military base in that area.
If Britain is driven out of Cyprus,
it has no place to go. Also,
Britain is fearful that Greece,
once almost conquered by Red
rebels, may some day go Com-
munist.
“Britain still has the use of
bases in Irak and Libya, but no
longer owns them. The island of
Malta and the rock of Gibraltar
are —with the exception of
Cyprus —the only military bases
remaining under British owner-
ship in the Mediterranean area.
Israel
“Britain controlled Palestine,
after driving out the Turks in
World War I, but many Jewish
people, whose ancestors were
driven from Palestine soon after
the time of Christ, have long
sought to return. Britain, in the
‘Balfour Declaration’ of 1917,
promised to ‘facilitate’ the
‘establishment in Palestine of a
national home for the Jewish
people.’
“Under British control —and
especially during the Nazi era of
anti-Semitism pressure for
New York “Herald Tribune "
THERE’S NOTHING LIKE AN OPEN FIRE
Jewish migration into Palestine
increased. Then, after World
War 11, Britain decided to with-
draw from Palestine. The United
Nations, in 1947, approved a
plan to partition the country
between Arabs and Jews. The
Arabs rejected this plan But
m May, 1948, when the British
withdrew the Jews proclaimed
their partitioned area as the
independent nation of Israel. The
U.S. recognised it almost lmmedi-
a r i I*
When Israel proclaimed itse f
a nation, its Arab neighbors com-
bined in an attempt to crush it.
Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan,
Irak and Saudi Arabia all con-
tributed troops. Open warfare
raged for a year. Then, under
United Nations directions, a
truce was reached in 1949. Israel
was the real winner in that war,
winding-up with more territory
than at the start.
“The nations can’t set together
on a real wlce-trfaU Se
on a real peace-treaty, me
Arabs refuse to recognise Israel
as a nation. They claim the
Israelis seized Arab land by
aggression and that more land
may be taken. Nearly one-
million Arabs fled Palestine
during the war, and many of
them are now destitute charges
of Arab countries. They demand
return of their land or compensa-
tion. Border-clashes between
Israelis and Arabs have flared
intermittently ever since the war
ende d.
“The nine Arab League
nations have a total population
of more than 50 million. There
are only about 1,600,0QP Jews
and 200,000 Arabs in Israel.
“Israel has the best national
Army in the Middle East right
now. It could mobilise 250,000
trained fighters in a few days,
Combined armies of the Arab
League nations are estimated at
only a little more than 200,000
men. However, Israeli com-
manders fear Communist arms
may eventually tilt the balance
to the Arabs.
Oil
“The United States is worried
about a war between Israel and
Arabs because it would jeopar-
dise important Western military
bases and oil-holdings in the
Middle East.
“About two-thirds of all the
oil in the world lies in that
region. Reserves are estimated
as high as 230,000-million
barrels. Production is more
than one-fifth of the total world-
output. Nearly all of the oil
used in Western Europe comes
from there. Kuwait alone —a
tiny British protectorate between
Irak and Saudi Arabia —pro-
duces 80 per cent, as much oil as
the entire Soviet Union.
“Actual ownership [of the oil]
lies with the Governments of
the countries where the oil is
found. These countries are
Saudi Arabia, Irak, Iran and a
few small Arabian sheikdoms,
such as Kuwait, Qatar and
Bahrein.
“About 60 per cent, of the
Middle Eas ,. s oil js hand]ed b
us anies British firms
handle ab J ut 30 per cent., Dutch
and French com * anies the rest
done under concessions
g,. anted b y tbe countries that
Under most con .
cess j ons the foreign companies
that produce the oil split the
p ro g ts w jth. the controlhng Gov-
grnrnent
’ . ~ ,
concisions could be
cancelled Britain already has
lost ite outright control of Iran s
oll T The ' was nationahsed by
an Iranian OovcrnnKnt strongly
influenced by. Communists.
Soviet agents are active through-
out , A l 6 entlr ® Middle East,
stirring-up trouble, infiltrating
Governments, hoping to get
P olitical P ower to break -° ff the
n _ d eals with the West and turn
toward Russia.
-
“Another danger is military.
This re g ion ls . defensively weak
™ d exposed to Russian at ack.
That s why the West has built-up
military alliances, such as the
Baghdad Pact, which links
Turkey, Iran, Irak and Pakistan
Wlth Britain.
“Even an Arab-Israeli war
that did not involve Russia
would endanger important oil-
pipelines that run from the
Middle Eastern oilfields across
such Arab nations as Syria,
Jordan and Lebanon to reach
the Mediterranean.
“All these oil-countries are now
doing business with the West, but
there are troubles.
“Saudi Arabia is quarrelling
with Britain over ownership of
an oil-laden oasis, Buraimi,
which the British now control.
Saudi Arabia also is siding with
Egypt and Syria in anti-Western
moves and in military deals
aimed at Israel. Saudi Arabia
is opening diplomatic relations
with Russia for the first time in
history. So is the small Arab
State of Yemen.
“The fear is growing that
Saudi Arabia may claim all the
Arabian peninsula, cancel its
Western oil-concessions and
hold the oil for its own price.
“Irak, the only Arab nation
getting U.S. military aid and the
only Arab member of the Bagh-
dad Pact, is under pressure from
the Egypt-led Arabian bloc to
get out of the Baghdad Alliance.
“Iran came near to yielding
to Communism once. It joined
the Baghdad Pact, but it also
has treaties with Russia.
“Syria is drifting Leftward.
Like Egypt, it has made a deal
for Communist arms. It also is
considering Soviet and Czech
bids to build a big oil-refinery
—and is bitterly hostile to Israel.
It refuses U.S. aid.
“People in Jordan rioted,
forced out a Government that
was considering joining the
Baghdad Pact.
North Africa
“In North Africa rebellions
against French rule are turning
into full-scale war. France is
threatened with the loss of its
whole North African empire.
“The U.S. stands to lose if
France is forced out of this area.
Big American air-bases are
located in French Morocco.
North Africa was valuable to
the Allies in World War II as a
base for military operations, and
could be valuable again.
“Now French Morocco, after
years of rioting and rebellion,
has won from France a form of
self-government. But Moroccan
extremists are demanding still
more—complete separation from
France. Another Riff War is a
possibility, such as that which
Abd el Krim waged in the
1920’5. Abd el Krim is now in
Egypt, still active in rebel affairs.
“Tunisia, a French protec-
torate, also won internal self-
rule last year, but rebel
extremists are still fighting for
complete independence.
“Even in Algeria, which has
been regarded as an integral part
of France since 1834, the French
are in serious trouble. For 18
months a ‘National Liberation
Army’ has been fighting a
guerrilla-war for national inde-
pendence. Some Algerian troops
have mutinied, others have
deserted to the rebels.
“Huge numbers of French
troops are pinned down in North
Africa by the trouble in these
three territories. Some of these
troops have been pulled out of
the French forces in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation,
thus weakening Europe’s anti-
Soviet defence-line.
“The United States is losing


How to cope
with loneliness
“The most devastating disease
today is loneliness,” says a
famous doctor. “Everyone suf-
fers from loneliness in one form
or another, and it can be con-
quered only by frankly facing
it.”
In the May Reader’s Digest,
Clarence Hall shows there are
three kinds of loneliness . . .
and gives sympathetic advice
on how each should be handled
to make your life happier.
Then there’s the shocking
story of “Approved killing in
Mississippi.” And another May
issue feature is “The one sure
way to reduce” . . . you’ll find
a wealth of articles condensed
from leading magazines' and
current books in the Reader’s
Digest. On sale now, only 2/-:
don’t miss your copy.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
IXL - AJC
OK-VO
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers o/;
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:-~
AUSTRALIA
' NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies s
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
prestige and influence as well as
standing a chance of being
thrown out of strategic air-bases.
The reason is that the U.S. is
caught in the middle in the North
African-French row. France is
angry because it thinks the U.S.
gives moral support to the rebels.
The North Africans think U.S.
sympathies are with France, and
say that the U:S. and France
negotiated the base-agreements
without even informing the
Moroccan Sultan. They also
note that French troops are
dressed in GI clothes and carry
U.S. arms.
“As a result, the U.S. is losing
ground with France in the Euro-
pean alliance, and gaining no
friends where its air-bases are
in North Africa.
Soviet Influence
“Russia has a hand in all this
trouble. Take Libya as one
concrete example. The Russians
are really busy there. The U.S*.
maintains its biggest single over-
seas air-base in that country, at
Tripoli. Britain has bases there,
too. Moscow has just opened a
big Embassy. The Russians are
offering Libya all sorts of aid
and technical assistance. Egypt
is urging the Libyans to take the
Soviet offer and cut their ties
with the West. There is a
chance that the U.S. might be
forced entirely out of this
strategic area.
“The Soviet Government is
taking an open part in all this
agitation. The Russians seem
to see a major break-through in
their campaign to thrust back
the U.S. and gain important foot-
holds.
“An official Soviet statement
warns the U.S. and Britain to
stay out of any war that may
flare between Israel and the
Arabs. It also takes the view
that everything that happens in
the Middle East concerns Soviet
security and that Russia intends
to have a full voice in what is
done there.
“The Mediterranean, right
now, is a decisive battlefront in
the ‘cold war’ —and the Western
Powers appear to be losing
ground.”
Ceylon Elections
British press comment on the
unexpected result of the Ceylon
elections:
London “Financial Times” :
“Rarely can a Government have
gone to the polls with such con-
fidence and been so thoroughly
trounced in the outcome. Sir
John Kotalawala, the Prime
Minister, deliberately went to the
electorate a year before it was
necessary, evidently in the belief
that his Government was at the
peak of its popularity with the
ordinary voter. The issue on
which he fought his election-
campaign—the establishment of
Sinhalese as the sole official
language—was one on which he
was in full agreement with the
main opposition group, led by
Mr. Bandaranaike.
“However, it looks as if this
nationalist gesture was not
regarded as nationalist enough.
Mr. Bandaranaike’s propaganda-
appeal, which included a demand
for the removal of the British air-
and naval-bases in Ceylon, was
clearly much more effective. At
the same time, the evidence of
rising prosperity and the fact
that the average citizen has
achieved a standard of living
which is high by South-East
Asian standards do not seem to
have resulted in any strong
public feeling in favor of the
existing economic order and
against Mr. Bandaranaike’s
radical proposals for the nation-
alisation of foreign property.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” :
“Since the emancipation of the
former British territories in Asia,
Ceylon has had the quietest
history of these succession
States. Evidently this is now
over. The election was fought
chiefly upon domestic issues, but
the parties which are now
coming into the ascendant are
adherents of neutralism. Their
election - programme included
secession from the Common-
wealth.
“The strongest political per-
sonality was the Prime Minister,
Sir John Kotalawala, whom the
election has overthrown. As he
was the leader of the group which
opposed China at the Bandoeng
conference, this election will
probably have given special
pleasure to Peking.”
* * *
A ustraiian Dr. W. G.
Goddard, in a letter to London
“Daily Telegraph”: “Whatever
may have been the domestic
issues in the Ceylon election, it
is a fact that one of Asia’s great-
est champions against Com-
munist expansion, Sir John
Kotalawala, has had to give place
to a pronounced Leftist.
“Whether Ceylon remains in-
side the Commonwealth or
moves out, it is a fact that the
British bases there are to go.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorial comment: “As in so
many Popular Fronts, it may well
be the extreme Left —in this case
the Trotskyites—who will deter-
mine the new Government’s
policy. Nearly a third of the
95 members of the new House
of Representatives at Colombo
are Marxists. The statement by
one of the Trotskyite leaders is
not reassuring. It contained an
accusation that Mr- Bandara-
naike, ‘obviously reacting to
foreign criticism,’ had ‘climbed
down’ from his previous state-
ment about land-nationalisation.
The tail is losing no time in
asserting its intention to wag
the dog.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail” : “When
he [Mr. Bandaranaike] takes
office he will be asked to fulfil his
election pledges.
“There were three main ones :
Establishment of a republic;
nationalisation of plantations, in-
surance, and banking; with-
drawal of foreign bases and
troops. These are all anti-British,
anti-Commonwealth.
“Ceylon is a British
Dominion. The bases are British
bases. The tea is mostly British.
The British shareholder has
£23 million invested in the
island.
“If the election promises were
carried out it would be a disaster
for Britain. But it would be an
even bigger one for Ceylon. Her
industries would sag, her credit
would fail, and she would be
helpless. Mr. Nehru might begin
to cast covetous eyes on the
island paradise.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle” r
“While the election-threat to
remove the British air- and naval-
bases is serious, this does not
mean that Ceylon is going against
the West. The analogy is closest
with India. There is nothing
necessarily fatal to Britain if
Ceylon chooses to follow Mr.
Nehru’s line.
“The greatest outcry will be
sure to come if the tea-planta-
tions are nationalised. British
planters are already reported to
be perturbed, but nationalisation
is probably a long way off —
and may never happen.
“We do not have to go to
Ceylon to recall that election
promises can be deceptive. At
the same time it would be folly
not to recognise that Ceylon’s
vote fits into an Asian pattern
that must be accepted as con-
temporary fact. A state of im-
perial indignation over it is not
only negative but dangerous.”
Soviet Sea-power
Commenting on the dismissal
of Admiral Kuznetsov, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Soviet
Navy, and his replacement by
his deputy, Admiral S. G.
Gorshkov, London “Time and
Tide” suggests that the change-
over indicates a reshaping of
the Soviet’s sea-power.
It notes that most commen-
tators, when evaluating the
power of the Soviet Navy,
“have studied quantity and been
impressed by the number of
cruisers, destroyers and sub-
marines possessed by the
U.S.S.R.”:
“Few, however, have probed
beyond the figures and assessed
the quality of the Navy and the
adaptability of its ships to the
rapidly changing conditions of
modern warfare.
“Since the end of World War
II the whole character of naval
warfare has been rapidly chang-
ing, and the moment has now
been reached when most of the
conventional types of vessel are
fast becoming obsolete. Western
Powers, in drafting their pro-
gramme of naval shipbuilding,
have been careful not to embark
on large financial outlay for the
mass-production of ships that
may become out-of-date almost
before they are off the stocks. It
has always been their policy to
rely on prototypes of tanks,
aircraft and ships, except in time
of imminent danger. •
“The Soviet Union has
adopted a totally different atti-
tude. On the principle that
a thousand second-class tanks
would always defeat a hundred
first-class tanks, it has gone in
for the mass-production of
armaments in peace-time. Thus
its armed forces have been fully
equipped with weapons of the
‘before-last’ type.
“The Soviet Navy today is
entirely the product of the post-
war naval programme, which
was drafted in the late ’forties
and gradually realised at enor-
mous cost. Thus today the
U.S.S.R. has a large number of
good and efficient ships, which
are rapidly losing their value as
the general character of naval
warfare changes. In other
words, the U.S.S.R. has built a
classical Navy in an atomic age.”
Notwithstanding any such
obsolescence, Admiral Jerauld
Wright, Commander -in - Chief
of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet, has
lately noted that “the Soviets are
now the world’s second naval
Power,” after the United States,
in terms of available vessels,
“and the first naval Power in the
rate of new construction.”
Russia, New York “Herald
Tribune” adds, “already has 400
submarines and is building more
at the rate of 85 a year. Al-
though it is doubtful that Soviet
engineers have developed any-
thing as advanced as the United
States Navy’s atomic-powered
subs, American achievements
are limited to quality and not
quantity. The same may be said
about such useful developments
as the ‘killer’ submarines.
“However, a basic factor of
Soviet naval strategy is clearly to
prevent American naval vessels
and shipping from bringing aid
to threatened points. Hitler’s
U-boats came close to crippling
Allied shipping in the early
years of World War 11, and he
began hostilities with only 57
of them.
“No matter how nuclear-
energy changes the techniques
of future warfare, it is hard to
see how there will be any sub-
stitute for ships as a large-scale
means of transporting heavy
equipment.
“Admiral Wright warned that
American submarine defences
are ‘rapidly becoming obsolete’
and that there are not enough
new ones. Too often in the
past, * the Navy has tended to
become preoccupied with battle-
ships and carriers, at the expense
of submarines.
“Now, when it is not unlikely
that all fighting-vessels may
have to become submersible, it
is vitally important to build and
maintain at peak efficiency the
whole apparatus of submarine
warfare —offensive and defensive
underseas craft, destroyers,
sonar, radar and aircraft.”
Any Limit?
Edinburgh “Scotsman” com-
ment on the record-breaking
flight of 1132 m.p.h. by L. Peter
Twiss in a British Fairey Delta
2 —the previous record of 824
m.p.h. was held by U.S. Colonel
H. A. Hanes:
“The British pilot has achieved
an increase of 37 per cent. It is
noteworthy that this seems to
have been due not to an increase
in power, for the plane is single-
engined, but to the plane’s
remarkably thin wing and its
design.
“Is there any limit to this pro-
cess of breaking records? Super-
sonic speed in level flight has
already been exceeded. No one
expects to surpass the speed of
light, for nothing can. But are
we nearing the point beyond
which metal cannot stand the
strain or at which human powers
fail?
“Since 1953 the broken records
have been in m.p.h. 727, 735, 755.
At that point it might have
seemed likely that a limit was
being reached, but last year the
figure went up to 824, and now
it has jumped again to 1132
m.p.h. It is an increase beyond
normal expectation, although it
may be that the United States has
something more up its sleeve.
“The public can hardly know
what is going on in the aero-
nautical - research laboratories,
but it is a welcome sign of the
continuance of British enterprise
that the record speed seems to
have been achieved on this side
of the Atlantic.”
Various Voices
Mr. Dulles: “What is it that
we seek? It is not conquest or
domination. Our desire is a
world in which peoples who want
political independence shall
possess it whenever they are
capable of sustaining it and dis-
charging its responsibilities in
accordance with the accepted
standards of civilised nations.”
Ceylon’s new leader, Mr.
Bandaranaike: “If the free
world is to escape being engulfed,
all its efforts should be directed
at ensuring 25 years of peace,
during which we may hope that
Communist ideas will become
moderated and lose their
dynamic force.”
Patrick Maitland (British Con-
servative M.P .): “There is noth-
ing absolute about even the right
of self-determination. It is mean-
ingless without sober and respon-
sible self-government. Security
must come before political
luxury.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Best Cure
They haunt, mainly, dimly-lit spots
in Brisbane’s Valley district; crew-cut
skulls, tight pants, lairy socks and the
usual appurtenances of the bodgie. It’s
there they plot their “daring” raids on
garages, tobacconists’ shops and theatre-
seats. In a recent fortnight in Brisbane
more than 100 garages and shops were
broken-into ; many seats in a suburban
theatre were slashed with knives.
Sociologists and psychologists may
have their answer to this most serious
juvenile-crime outbreak in years ; so have
the police. Close on 30 detectives were
assigned to lumbering the mob-game
bodgies; they arrested 32 youths,
cleared-up the 100-odd shop-breakings.
And they moved swiftly on a shop from
which, it was reported, hoodlums were
buying, for 15s. each, commando-knives,
the handle knobbed to form a vicious
knuckle-duster. .
Better parental handling and better
social conditions may nip potential
larrikinism in the bud. But the best cure
for a “tough” lair who deliberately buys
what police describe as a “vicious and
dangerous weapon” is to come up against
a brace of really tough and burly detec-
tives. In the face of this definite deterrent
mob-induced toughness vanishes like
nomadic tents.— Jemac (Q.).
ji-
Tropical Gardens
There is everything to be said for the
proposal to establish a botanic garden in
Cairns (Q.), “for the sole purpose of
cultivating and distributing North
Australian flora.”
Curiously, Queensland makes a poor
showing in the matter of public gardens.
Its only really admirable examples are
those of Toowoomba (where an impres-
sive flower-festival is held each year) and
Rockhampton. All the rest are below
the standard that should be achieved in
a region where decorative and flowerful
trees and shrubs can be grown to perfec-
tion.
The need for prompt action is empha-
sised by the fact that most Queensland
cities and towns are expanding rapidly
and land in appropriate spots is becoming
scarcer and more valuable.
I think in particular of Atherton, on
the highlands behind Cairns. Some day,
not very far ahead, v the Atherton Table-
land will carry a string of large towns,
and Atherton itself, as the central point,
should at once reserve ample space for
at least one commodious park and one
large public garden. In the garden,
emphasis should be laid on presenting
some idea of the original rich flora of
the region.
Personally, however, I don’t agree with
the Cairns proposal for an
garden. That city certainly should have
a large public garden featuring the most
decorative plants of tropical Australia,
but it would surely be a mistake to ban
from it such spectacular introductions as,
for example, the jacaranda and the
poinciana.— Naturalist (N.S.W.).
A Bill of Rights
That N. S. Wales Liberal proposal for
a Bill of Rights is not “anachronistic and
unreal” (B. 15/2/’56). It is long overdue.
In a democratic society there is always
a danger of subversion if the rights of
the people are vested in Parliament and
not incorporated in a written Constitu-
tion, interpreted by an independent judi-
ciary. With resolute public opinion and
responsible leaders of all major parties
a country may enjoy freedom without
such guarantees, as Britain has done, but
this will not continue inevitably and
indefinitely.
This fact has been recognised by
several modern British political thinkers.
Professor Keeton, in The Passing of
Parliament, noted the trend towards
authoritarian government and interference
with individual liberties and property-
rights in Britain since World War 1.
That extreme Socialist Professor Laski
advocated that a Labor Government
should pass a comprehensive law as a
basis for the quick socialisation of the
country. A determined ruling junta,
backed by a complaisant majority in the
Commons, could do just that, because the
House of Lords has only a delaying veto.
Former Governor of Victoria and
elder statesman Lord Sydenham of
Combe, in his autobiography My Work-
ing Life, also saw the danger to liberty
and private property in consequence of
the Lords’ veto being merely suspensory.
Comparing the American Constitution
with the British, he remarked of the
U.S.A.: “Their political stability has
depended on a written Constitution,
which stood the strain of a great civil
war, and their form of democratic gov-
ernment differs radically from that which
has been copied from our fluid institu-
tions.” He quoted with approval a letter
from his friend the American statesman
James Beck:
How long can England continue to be
an unrestrained democracy? Must you not,
sooner or later, come to Constitutional
limitations? Certainly without Constitu-
tional limitations democracy in the U.S.A.
must have perished long ago.
Douglas Jerrold took the same line in
The Necessity of Freedom :
The American Supreme Court stands for
the principle that the rights of a majority
are not absolute, but must conform to just
principles, carefully determined, and
defended by a special procedure indepen-
dent of the emotional moods of a vast
electorate. Only by an acceptance of that
and its introduction into our own Con-
si itutional law will Christians in Europe be
able permanently to reconcile democracy
with freedom, or hope to establish
Christ’s Kingdom on Earth by Parlia-
mentary methods.
The protection given by a written
Constitution which limits Parliamentary
action was well illustrated by the
fate of Chifley’s Bank Nationalisation
Act. Section 92 of the Federal Constitu-
tion proved an insuperable obstacle.
Had Australia been a State like Britain
or New Zealand, with no legal limitations
to the power of the national Parliament,
bank-nationalisation —or the nationalisa-
tion of all industry—could have been en-
forced within the lifetime of a single
Parliament.
It would have been exceptionally diffi-
cult, if not impossible, for the change to
have been reversed by a Liberal-C.P.
Government —as Mr. Calwell was pleased
to note before the legality of the bill had
been determined. Even ample evidence
of public hostility to the measure did not
deter Chifley from his purpose, as, at an
earlier date, still sharper evidence of
popular hostility did not cause J. T. Lang
to swerve from his policy of repudiation
of the national debt.
A Bill of Rights, incorporated in a
written Constitution, is necessary to pro-
tect the rights and property of the citi-
zen from irresponsible or revolutionary
Governments. Experience has shown
that, sooner or later, the need arises for
some such curb on the authority of Par-
liament. — Morris the Tinker (N.S.W.).
Pilchards
The decline of deep-sea fishing off
Victoria’s south-west coast (B. 4/4/’56)
could be a good thing if appropriate
action follows the investigations of an
“ Would you mind hopping into
the back seat, dear? I want to
change gear."
overseas expert into the potential sardine-
industry in Port Phillip Bay.
Marine experts have maintained for a
long time that pilchards could support
the biggest single type of fishing in Aus-
tralia —as in South Africa.
Before the war South Africa had no
pilchard-business to boast about, but the
annual catch is now in the region of 150-
million pounds—more than twice the
total catch of all types of fish in
Australian waters.
Pilchards, and the 20 related species in
Australia, suffer from a stigma indicated
by the names applied to them —whitebait
and bluebait. They are regarded only as
bait-fish.
Yet the whitebait which often appears
In great numbers in Victorian bays and
inlets is the real anchovy. It has yielded
a rich paste in the past, though only on
a small scale. Careful investigation to
ascertain its numbers and movements will
have to precede any full-scale commercial
venture.
Pilchards are probably the most
prolific school-fish in Australian waters.
They range from southern Queensland to
W.A., and are especially plentiful off the
s.-e. coast of the continent.
Pilchard-fishing in Victoria is now
centred mainly at Station Pier, Port Mel-
bourne. Several fishermen, using 9ft.
hoop-nets alongside the pier, make a
living there. The catch is used almost
solely as bait, but I have no doubt that
the pilchards taste well.
If Australians can overcome their
peculiar prejudice against these “bait-
fish” we may one day have an industry
comparable with Britain’s canned- or
smoked-herrings business. Crunch
(Vic.).
Short Memories
I find it amusing to read pastoralists’
denunciations of shearers who are
flaunting the current rulings of arbitra-
tion, particularly when I recall how
many big graziers and principals of
station-companies threw arbitration
awards and conditions to the winds a
little over 20 years ago and paid station-
hands just what wages suited themselves.
In 1935, when I left the industry, a
station-hand’s wages were supposed to be
£2 a week and keep valued at £l. Yet
for the previous four years only one
station in 10 of western N. S. Wales
properties paid the award-rates. The
others paid a maximum of £1 10s. a week
of seven days, with rations not totalling
more than 15s. Jackeroos’ wages were
even less, though their tucker was better
because they ate in “Government House.”
On some stations I met experienced
men receiving only 19s. a week,
voluntarily surrendering a shilling of the
£1 offered so that, with rations,
their wages would not total £2
a week and be taxed by the Gov-
ernment for Unemployment
Relief. Dealing with rations,
butter was considered too good
for station-hands, and on one
Darling River property when
onions reached a certain price these were
also denied the men’s hut. The boss
suggested that if the men all liked to put
in for a bag he would get the onions
for them.
During those dark days a prominent
Adelaide man who controlled 100,000
square-miles of grazing-leases broad-
cast a message of hope to the many
unemployed youths of the city. He
concluded to the effect that hundreds of
the out-of-work lads he saw hanging
around the streets of Adelaide could all
be employed on his stations at £1 a week.
One body of workers the graziers didn’t
attempt to interfere with, even in those
days, were the shearers. They knew these
were a solid union body who would stick
together. The shearers at most sheds, on
learning what the station-hands were
being paid, would invariably remark that
they shouldn’t be shearing the sheep
brought to the shed with scab-labor. It
was a great pity they didn’t refuse to shear
them.
Now that the graziers are quoting
arbitration and awards I hope many of
them think of those days.—C. A. L.
(W.A.).
Peak Downs
An auction-sale marked the end of the
Queensland Labor Government’s most
costly experiment—the Food for Britain
Scheme.
The State’s venture into socialised farm-
ing began about eight years ago with
more than 700,000 acres in Central
Queensland, on which it was planned to
produce sorghum, sunflowers, pigs and
cattle to supply Britain with food. By
1954, when the scheme was discontinued,
the project was “in the red” to the extent
of nearly £2{- million.
The success of the experiment was
always problematical, and it was hit hard
by a series of bad seasons, harvest-time
floods, droughts and mice-plagues. This,
coupled with the already high costs
usually associated with Governmental
undertakings, had an adverse effect on
optimistic production-programmes, and
practically doomed the project.
A target of 320,000 pigs a year by
1951 was set; total production was 9000.
Grain-sorghum, according to estimates,
was to be produced at £5 12s. a ton;
production-costs, brought about by
adverse conditions, raised the figure to
as high as £55 6s. a ton.
Before closing the project the State
Government had acquired the British
Government’s share for £1,200,000.
In four years’ operations the project
lost £BBO,OOO.
The area has now been cut-up into
grazing-leases and 5000-acre farm-blocks,
and of the original holding only eight
grazing -blocks and 31 farm-areas remain.
It is planned to dispose of these areas
later in the year.
Sale of assets up to June 30, 1955,
realised £513,988, and this last sale
cleared all machinery and fixed assets
except a few buildings.— Sparks (Q.).
Pianos
I gather from the papers that Bowral
(N.S.W.) has' “a very good grand-piano”
—and got by public subscription, too.
Sydney’s concert-pianos—the Town
Hall’s big black Steinway and the Con-
servatorium’s shiny Bechstein —both look
most impressive when wheeled out on to
their respective platforms, but, while the
majority of Sydney concertgoers seem
proud of their glamor-instruments,
several pianists aren’t.
Bowral’s piano is “housed in a room
where the temperature is thermostati-
cally controlled,” thus avoiding possible
pitch-variation. As far as I know, the
Conservatorium wings and the Town
Hall storage-room register anything from
frosts to heatwaves, depending on outside
conditions.
Surely Sydney’s musically-minded
could kick-in for a new Steinway, with,
of course, a thermostatically-controlled
house for it. — Adrian Wintle (N.S.W.).


Ambulance Services
It is about time the whole system of
ambulance-services was revised (B.
11/4/’56). Since their introduction over
50 years ago the services have grown
until they are now a vital part of our
hospital- and medical-systems. Yet it
appears that the success or otherwise of
the service depends on members of
ambulance-brigades begging donations or
running raffles and so forth.
The prime function of an ambulance-
brigade is the transport of the sick and
injured to a place of medical treatment.
As such, the brigades are part of our
hospital-system, and they should be, like
the hospitals, a charge on the State.
In the cities, and in large towns with
general hospitals, the ambulance-service
operates from a central depot, aided (in
the cities) by various sub-centres in the
suburbs. A car goes out from its depot,
picks up the patient and goes to the
hospital; then it returns to the depot.
The distance between the centre and the
hospital may be some miles, and,
although radio has eliminated some of
the journeys, the total mileage travelled
between hospital and ambulance-centre
must be enormous.
In small country towns the ambulance
operates even less efficiently. A super-
intendent and his car are usually always
ready, but the number of really urgent
cases are few and far between. Yet
because of these cases the ambulance is a
necessity. The superintendent and
ambulance-members spend a great deal
of time organising raffles, fetes, street-
stalls, ham-wheels, and goading the
committee to greater financial efforts.
In many country towns there is a local
hospital, with out-patients’ department
and all the necessary and costly equip-
ment and trained medical staff ; then there
is the local ambulance-centre* with well-
fitted first-aid room and trained staff.
Often there is also the building or rooms
where the child-welfare Sister works.
Wouldn’t it be better to bring, the
ambulance-services closer to the hospitals
—where they belong? In cities and in
towns with hospitals the ambulance could
operate directly from the hospital, the
ambulance superintendent being directly
responsible to the hospital superintendent.
In emergencies the ambulance could take
out a trained nurse or a doctor, to give
treatment immediately.
In smaller towns which have only an
out-patients’ department operating from
the district hospital the ambulance-
centre could serve this purpose. The
same rooms could be used by the child-
welfare Sister.
In small towns where there are no
hospitals or out-patients’ departments the
ambulance-centres could still continue
their good work, providing first-aid and
speedy, comfortable transport to the
nearest medical centre. —Sacerdos (Q.).
Medical Attaches
There is no reason why medical
attaches should not be appointed by
Canberra to countries where we have
Embassies and where important develop-
ments are taking place in medicine. We
might well, for instance, have a medical
attache in Washington and Paris, and the
equivalent of one at the High Commis-
sioner’s office in London.
At various times, Australian doctors
have gone abroad on specific missions and
brought back information of the highest
medical value. Possibly the most recent
is Dr. Bazeley, who studied the Salk polio-
vaccine at first-hand in the United States,
and was able to inform the Australian
Government not only of the value and
the techniques of this process but of
certain dangers which had developed in
its mass-manufacture. As a result of
these warnings extra precautions have
been taken in Australia, so that, on the
eve of mass-vaccinations, most Australian
parents and doctors are facing the situ-
ation'with confidence.
A medical attache in Washington
could not give the time to study one tech-
nique associated with one disease, but he
would be able to report on a large number
of developments in medicine taking place
in the United States. He could indicate
where special missions might do valuable
work in a particular field, and he could
direct Australian attention to new U.S.
discoveries and techniques resulting from
the enormous amount of research made
possible by rich endowments.
He would, moreover, through official
channels, be able to discount the signi-
ficance of many “discoveries” which do
not, in fact, stand up to clinical experi-
ence. In this field we are only too familiar
with newspaper-stories about “miracle”
drugs which raise too many hopes doomed
to end in bitter disappointment.
It is one thing to send a specialist
abroad to get authoritative knowledge
about progress in the treatment or pre-
vention of a particular disease. It is
another thing to have a qualified man
stationed at the heart of affairs and always
alert for new ideas in the vast number
of medical problems not always directly
under official notice.
The whole question of pain-relief is in
this category, to cite only one. In recent
months the Australian Government has
banned the importation of heroin, for
reasons which don’t need discussion. But
there was a disturbing footnote to that
decision in the protest by many doctors
that heroin offered the best, and in some
instances the only, answer to intractable
pain.
The problem of pain in incurable cancer
needs no emphasis, but there are other
incurable, or prolonged, diseases in which
pain presents a constant challenge to the
humane mind. Information on this prob-
lem alone could be of very great value
to the medical profession in Australia.
The position of Medical Attache in
Washington, Paris, London or elsewhere
should have a great appeal to many of
the brilliant young doctors graduating
from Australian medical schools. No
appointment need be for more than two
or three years, and the would have
a diplomatic as well as a professional
standing.
The cost would be fractional, and the
results could be enormous. Nor need it be
a one-way traffic. Australia has made
notable contributions in certain fields of
medicine —tropical medicine is one—and,
if the idea were accepted, it is quite likely
that other countries would be happy to
appoint their own medical attaches to
Australia. —Dee (N.S.W.).
Police and the Law
The Victorian Police Commissioner
has accused lawyers of raising too many
technicalities, and thereby burdening the
administration of justice; and of being
too ready to raise charges that their
clients had been assaulted by police.
These criticisms are not original, but it
is rare to find them made by such a
responsible person.
In democratic countries the principle
is accepted that there must be a clearly-
defined criminal act and satisfactory
evidence that the accused has in fact com-
mitted that act. If those two require-
ments are not met it is the duty of the
lawyer to point it out. Indeed, when
the accused is not represented the
magistrate or judge should look for and
point out the discrepancies. Of course,
a magistrate or judge rarely has time to
investigate less-serious charges fully; I
have seen people convicted when the
evidence was far from satisfactory. When
a lawyer demonstrates the weaknesses of
an accusation against his client he is
being technical, but he is also ensuring
that justice is being done.
If the accused has committed some
criminal act and there is evidence to
show this, the lawyer’s technicalities will
avail nothing. If there are doubts, then
justice demands that those doubts be
resolved, even if it takes time
Only the most naive would deny the
possibility of some policeman losing his
self-control and assaulting a particularly
provocative criminal. Whether the
charge is true or false it should be investi-
gated if the reputation of the Force is to
be maintained.
The police wield tremendous influence
and, in the main, use it wisely and well.
But that does not mean that they should
be free from criticism. —MacD. (Vic.).
“All right, y' can get under shelter — it's comm on again”
Rail and Bus
This morning was no different from
those of the past six years. For eight
wea ry miles I had strap-hung m the aisle
of a crowded bus, feet a target for every
passenger who clawed along the narrow
passage-way. At the terminus a struggling
mass of humanity spilled on to the foot-
path just as a suburban train passed on
the line near by.
Through the fence I watched it in the
cutting below. Each compartment of
“It might suit YOU — you re more sophisticated than I am.”
evety carriage was comfortably full, with
perhaps six people standing in the whole
of the six-car train. Reclining at ease on
wide leather cushions, the male pas-
sengers were leisurely folding newspapers,
and business girls were gathering their
baskets and cases ready to get out. With
an easy motion the cars rolled over a set
of points, then glided to a gentle stop
at the platform.
I turned back to the scene immediately
around me once again, and noted the
dozen or so workers’ buses fighting for
parking-space beside the kerb to disgorge
their loads. And I wondered when the
Government of my State would realise
that the railways must push new rails out
to reach the dozen or more new suburban
areas before the inadequate congested
roads are completely choked with the
hundred-thousand vehicles already regis-
tered in the metropolitan area. —C. A. L.
(W.A.).
Invisible Imports
Current discussion on falling London
balances and restriction of imports
seems to be directed mainly at the restric-
tion and licensing of visible imports. But
there are other imports which have pre-
cisely the same effect on our London
balances, and among the largest of these
is the vast amount of insurance placed
with non-Australian companies.
The total amount of premiums paid
by Australian policyholders is now in
the region of £lOO million a year, and
a substantial portion of this sum is sent
out of the country in payment for a com-
modity (insurance) readily available from
| ocal sources with complete security. I
! 3ave *? ot heard, however, ot any tation-
wSh® thS G ° Vernment
connection witn mis.
Secondary industries and other com-
mercial interests which have been
involved in the import-restrictions can
help themselves by placing their msur-
ance with Australian offices. The less
that goes overseas for insurance the more
there is available to finance their own
vital imports, of which insurance is
certainly not one. It is difficult to state
exactly the extent to which our London
funds are affected by insurance-premiums
sent overseas, because the Commonwealth
Statistician does not have complete and
accurate information on this important
point.
Insurance is one of Britain’s great
world-wide invisible exports, but there
seems no good reason why it should be
exempt from the import-licensing system
to which we have had to resort, any
more than other British industries which
have been affected by it. —Ceg (Vic.).
Housing Costs
In building and maintaining a house
a landlord has to meet all the expenditure
listed by “Rann” (B. 18/4/’56). He also
has to receive an income from his invest-
ment which will make it worth his while
to put money into providing homes for
others, and that income has to be high
enough to cover the risks and losses
inherent in property-letting.
The practice of rent-pegging, instituted
as a war-time measure and continued for
many years after, has not only kept
income from property at a low figure ; it
has also instilled into the public’s mind
the erroneous notion that house-rents
should be absurdly low in comparison
with the cost of other essentials.
Before the war, when the basic wage
was approximately £4, reasonable rent
for a five-roomed cottage in a good
suburb in Melbourne was £1 10s. to
£1 155.; with the basic wage more than
trebled, £4 10s. to £5 ss. would be a
comparable figure for a similar dwelling.
And when it is remembered that the
house acceptable in 1939 is no longer
acceptable today—housing standards and
amenities having risen considerably—the
high rents of the few houses available
are understandable.
The fact that building-costs have
increased fourfold since 1939 is a
measure of the realities of the housing-
situation. — Ardoyne (Vic.).
Synthetic Rubber
Synthetic rubbers have captured much
of the American market, and a new
special synthetic, with the same unit
structure as natural rubber, is now
available for truck- and bus-tyres. There
is some speculation in the U.S. as to
whether the present and projected efforts
of the natural-rubber industry, centred
principally in south-east Asia, to hold
a bare one-third of the American new,
rubber market may already be too little
and too late. But what will be the effect
in Malaya, in Indonesia, and in the other
major producers of natural rubber?
The political and economical reactions
may be highly important to Australia as
well as the rest of the world. —M. W.
(A.C.T.).


The sole reason why
some graziers still use
the knife for marking
and tailing is that
they consider the
rubber ring method
is slow. These graziers
are apparently not
aware of the advan-
tages of an Elastrator
Ring Loader which
enables the time taken
to fit a ring being cut
down by 50%. Even
without a loader con-
siderable speed can
be achieved after a
little practice. One
user wrote “After
persevering with rub-
ber rings I can now
put them on as fast as
two catchers can bring
the lambs up to me.”
ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
- 1 : '■■■"»:■ \n
■ : ■ ■ :
toi
y/'-M ,w~fc
«
ill
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysagkf Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackball Pt, Road, Five Dock
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WATER RESEARCH
SCIENCE and technology
have made such rapid
advances in this 20th century
that we often wonder what new
marvels will be presented to us.
The researches of scientists and
engineers confer benefits out of
all proportion to their cost upon
the whole community. Primary
and secondary industries rightly
consider research essential to
maintain their position against
rising costs and increased com-
petition.
Australia approaches this
research-work in many ways—
through universities ; C.5.1.R.0.;
experiment - farms ; industrial-
research laboratories ; Govern-
ment departments. It is to the
credit of many public-spirited
citizens that they have given
land and money towards
research.
Strangely enough, however,
the most fundamental problem
of all in Australia — water —has
so far lacked a sponsor.
It was to meet this deficiency
that a Water Research Founda-
tion of Australia was proposed
by industrialists, graziers,
engineers and scientists. It
would give all who felt that the
problems of water were vital to
the future prosperity and popu-
lation of this country an oppor-
tunity to help in their solution.
The foundation has been
established as a non-profit-
making limited-liability com-
pany. Its general aim is to
initiate and promote scientific
and industrial research into the
development, use and control of
the water-resources of Australia.
By its policy of research it
hopes to assist primary and
secondary industries, domestic
users and all concerned with
public health and sanitation.
The foundation will co-operate
with and help in water-research
all existing organisations. It
seeks to avoid duplication of
effort. Perhaps one of its most
important functions will be to
make the results of research
available to those who can make
profitable use of them. It is
realised that research does not
achieve its purpose unless it is
put to practical use.
There is no shortage of prob-
lems facing the foundation —in
fact, there are sufficient to keep
a small army of scientists and
engineers busy for many years.
As a consequence,- one of the
first tasks is the examination
and classification of these many
urgent problems of water. A
research-committee has been
appointed under a director of
research to do this work and
advise the board of the founda-
tion on the appropriate action
which the research-problems
demand. The board of trustees
will endeavor to put this
research-policy into effect.
To this end one of its import-
ant functions is the raising of
finance. Contributions are
invited from individuals, cor-
porations and industries con-
cerned with water. The follow-
ing classes of donors may
become members of the founda-
tion:
At least £lOOO per annum, a
patron of the foundation. At
least £250 per annum, a fellow
of the foundation. At least £5O
per annum, an associate of the
foundation. All other donors,
affiliates of the foundation.
C.5.1.R.0., the authority on
research in Australia, recognises
that useful research can be done
by bodies outside its own
organisation. It gives every
encouragement to such initia-
tive. It has advised the organis-
ing-committee of the foundation
on the principles and procedures
it should follow.
The Water Research Founda-
tion of Australia, Ltd., is accord-
ingly approved by C.5.1.R.0. as
“an institution, association or
organisation undertaking scien-
tific research which is or may
prove to be of value to Aus-
tralia.” As a consequence of
this approval, gifts and subscrip-
tions to the foundation are allow-
able as deductions from taxable
income.
A relevant question is, how
will the foundation conduct the
research?
At first it is proposed that
research fellowships or scholar-
ships be provided at existing uni-
versities or institutions. Fellow-
ships of this kind are attrac-
tive to scientists and engineers
who desire to proceed to higher
degrees or follow a line of
research which interests them.
It is anticipated that men of
high calibre can be interested in
this way, and the work will be
done at the institution most
fitted for the purpose.
Already, two such fellow-
ships have been established. One
is on the further development of
water-harvesting. Those who
have seen water-harvesting in
operation at Badgery’s Creek
(N.S.W.) must be impressed by
its potentialities. A research-
fellow, working at the University
of Sydney, will undoubtedly add
further to the knowledge on this
subject.
The second fellowship has
been established at the N.S.W.
University of Technology to
investigate the efficacy of land-
treatment on water-conservation
and flood - mitigation. This
method of conducting research
by fellowships is both efficient
and economical. At a later stage
the foundation may establish its
“Say when!”
own laboratories and experi-
mental farms.
The foundation will dissemin-
ate research-results to its mem-
bers in the following ways:
Research-reports will be issued as
each specific project is concluded
or reaches a stage when infor-
mation of value has been
obtained. Also, a regular
journal will aim at keeping
members informed of the
research - programme of the
foundation, and of current
developments in water-science
and engineering. A consulta-
tive service may also be estab-
lished by the foundation to
answer the inquiries of mem-
bers.
W.R.F.A. appeals to the
idealism as well as the practical
commonsense of Australians.
The problem of water in this
country is as big a challenge to
our future prosperity and
security as any enemy. This
must be realised now, and the
problem attacked in a practical
way. The foundation offers
everyone the opportunity of
assisting in the development of
this nation.
Prospective members can
apply to the Hon. Secretary,
Water Research Foundation of
Australia, Ltd., School of Civil
Engineering, N.S.W. University
of Technology, Sydney.
C. J. Wiesner (Hon. Sec.)
Russian-comfrey
Two readers —one, N. S.
Wales; the other, Tasmania —
on a subject.which has provoked
an extraordinary number of
inquiries :
Peter Gnuske, nurseryman
and seedsman, Roger River
(Tas.), writes:
Mr. L. Buchanan May’s remarks
(B. 11/4/’56) refer to three different
types of comfrey. The Russian-
comfrey now slowly gaining the
interest of agriculturists in different
parts of the world is Symphytum
peregrinum, introduced to England by
Henry Doubleday in the last century.
This species is the plant English,
African and other growers refer to if
they use it as a forage-plant.
S. asperrimum, referred to in the
quoted London “Times” article as
“prickly comfrey,” is another
species, also from the Caucasus,
fairly similar in growth and habit,
with slight variations in leaves and
flowers. It isn’t easy for the layman
to spot the difference between the two
plants. If there were some importa-
tions of this species into Australia it
must have been for the purposes for
which it was at that time grown in
Europe: fodder for pigs, and as a
medicinal herb.
The remark that the plant is also
known as “bonset” applies rather to
a third species, S. officinalis. F. Ran-
sone, county secretary of the Essex
Herb Committee, writes in his Pen-
guin book, British Herbs: “The
specific name officionale shows that it
has been employed as a drug since
the monks grew it in their gardens
and acted as doctors to the sick and
injured in their villages. And its
old name of ‘knit-bone’ preserves
the idea that application of the leaves
as a . poultice to sprains, bruises and
swellings would effect a remedy.
Though it is not included in the
British Pharmacopoeia, both the leaves
and the roots, which contain an
abundance of mucilage, are used in
pharmacy for bronchial and other
inflammatory troubles.”
It is quite obvious that all three
species, at one time or another, have
aroused varying degrees of interest.
But S. peregrinum is the only species
which has found favor with farmers
in recent times as a forage-crop. The
reasons are its high-protein, its influ-
ence in counteracting scouring and on
the general health of stock, and its
enormous bulk per acre. Statements
that yields of 100 tons an acre and
more can be produced, and that the
plant lasts 20 and more years in spite
of cutting and grazing, have been
confirmed in various parts of the
world.
J. F. Leacock, director of the
Glenfield Community Health
Society, Casula (who, since his
“M.0.L.” par. on his own
experiments with Russian-com-
frey, has had inquiries galore,
press-photographers and the
like), also spots the confusion of
species. He continues:
The species S. peregrinum, also
known as Russian- or Quaker-
comfrey, has only recently been
grown to any extent in Britain. It
was also introduced to South Africa
many years ago, but not much was
heard about it until fairly recently.
Within the last two years Russian-
comfrey has made great advances in
South Africa, Rhodesia and Kenya.
I doubt if the rabbit can be blamed
for the apparent disappearance of
prickly-comfrey in Australia, as L. D.
Hills, in his book on the comfreys,
says rabbits and fowls will not touch
the prickly variety when it is growing,
but eat it greedily when it has wilted.
The other species, S. officionale, is
growing in various herb-gardens in
Australia.
Fruit-fly in W.A.
“M.F.D.”: There was an
obvious error in my contribution
(B. 18/4/’56) under the above
heading, in which I said that
Geraldton produces annually
“about £250 million worth of
tomatoes for the Australian and
Singapore markets.” This
should have read £250 thousand.
The industry has probably
expanded a good deal since I
was there —hardly that much.
Plastic Gun-tubes
“Nerrin”: Drenching - guns
with plastic-tubes for delivering
the drench down the gullet,
instead of into the mouth, have
many advantages, including pre-
vention of wool-stain by pheno-
thiazine.
However, these guns can be
dangerous if not used carefully.
The main hazard is the tube
which gets stiff or has the end
broken-off. Tubes should be
replaced as soon as they get stiff
or broken.
If used in this condition they
are likely to puncture the lining
of the throat, where a solution
such as phenothiazine can cause
complications which will kill an
animal instead of curing it.
Special care is need with
lambs, whose throats are very
tender.
Silage Protection
“Telefomin”: The modern
trend of silage-storage from pits
and overhead silos to stacks,
wedges and buns emphasises the
need for protecting the fodder
against loss from rain and


"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
m ent illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the attach-
ments that interest you:
N.8.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BUI6II.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8561.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1561.
Q’LAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
116 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Phenovis’ Brand of Phenotniazme
3*lBB
So is
PHENOVIS'
The most effective Drench for Sheep
because:
(1) It is made from extremely fine-ground Phenothiazine.
(2) It effectively controls the major intestinal worms in sheep.
(3) Worm free sheep produce 25% more wool than worm infested sheep.
(4) Helps sheep resist infestation.
(5) Helps keep pastures contamination-free.
Insist upon the SUPERFINE quality
‘PHENOVIS’
LIQUID OR POWDER
ORDER now from your Supplier
8 DEPEND ABLE ft NlMj L
imperTaiThemical industries
788.PHE.48X. 2693
ICI
PjjOT.ErmN. PRODUCT
OF AUSTRALIA A NEW ZEALAND LTD.
rotting. The need is greatest
when the silage is kept longer
than the short period between
cutting and the following
autumn.
Scottish experiments have
measured considerable wastage
in the food-value of silage which
is either unprotected or has as
much as 4ft. of straw covering
it.
These losses from seepage can
be minimised by building a roof
over the silage-pit. Scottish
experts recommend that, for
economical construction and
good fermentation, the silo
should be as deep as practicable.
For ease of filling, the side-
walls should not be more than
4ft. above the ground, or 3ft.
below ground-level. Depth can
be increased on a sloping site,
where there is a big advantage if
the floor is level with the ground
at the emptying-end.
To provide room for the
tractor-driver, the lowest roof-
timbers should be at least Bft.
above the top of the silage. The
pit should be at least double the
width of a tractor.
The side which would admit
most rain, at least, should be
covered-in. Galvanised-iron or
corrugated asbestos-sheets seem
to be equally good roof-material.
No abnormal damage from
condensation has been seen in
Scottish experiments.
Prickly-pear
From J. M. Matheson, who
was Government stock-inspector
at Toowoomba (Q.) 1920-23:
Before the cactoblastis cleaned-
up the prickly pear in a belt of
cattle-country extending from Gayn-
dah to Miles, heavyweight fat
bullocks used to come into Too-
woomba from properties around
Miles when other districts were find-
ing it hard to put together a mob of
forward stores.
These giant fats were off the soft-
pear country. They found it hard to
stand up to the dipping which was
necessary before they were trucked to
“clean” (i.e., tick-free) country. I
have seen them go down in the sale-
yards and have to be hosed for half-
an-hour before they could get to their
feet again.
Now that the prickly-pear has gone
and hundreds of thousands of acres
of good cattle-country has been
recovered, we who have had experi-
ence with this erstwhile curse can look
back and agree that it was a stand-by
in time of drought. There is no doubt
about cattle going for the pear when
other feed was scarce.
The fat of these bullocks was very
soft and yellow. A fair percentage
of a yarding in those days often had
lumps on the jaw, and these beasts
were known to cattlemen as
“lumpies” or “faulties.” Many a
cheap bullock with nothing more
wrong with him than a pear-lump on
the jaw has made as good beef as
money could buy.
Potato-seed
“Big Billy”: Experiments at
Victoria’s Potato Research
Centre at Healesville over the
past five years have led to some
interesting conclusions regard-
ing the respective merits of
using round or cut seed-potatoes.
Results demonstrate that, pro-
vided the seed is healthy, the
yield from l|oz. of round seed
is equal to that grown from cut
seed of the same weight. How-
ever, the advantages of round
seed are considerable; among
them:
No tedious and costly cutting
of potatoes; no problems of
keeping a supply of seed ahead
of the planter ; no risk of break-
down as with cut seed ; better
germination ; less risk of “black-
leg” disease; more attractive
sample.
Calf-care
“Moe”: As in other parts of
the world, there is a high calf-
mortality in Australia. Control
of this loss begins by feeding
the pregnant cow well
especially during the last two
months —with all the essential
food - constituents, including
minerals and vitamins.
Vitamin-A is very important,
because one of its functions is
to protect the lining-membranes
of the body against germs. The
cow can store this vitamin in its
liver while the feed is green, and
pass it on to its calf in the
colostrum. To prevent these
reserves being depleted, give the
cow good-quality silage when
the food is dry. If this is not
available, give the calf vitamin-
A.
At all cost, prevent calves
from catching chills. If you have
bought calves, put them in a
warm pen with plenty of straw ;
feed well, but give them time to
get used to their surroundings
before expecting them to put
away a lot of tucker; if colo-
strum is available, give them
some. Failing this, add 5000
units of vitamin-A and 500 units
of vitamin-D to the calf’s
ration.
Clean Honey
“Drone B.”: Greatest fault
in honey reaching the packers’
floors is low standard of cleanli-
ness. Far too many tins of
otherwise first-quality honey are
marred by the high content of
bees, wax-particles and other
debris.
This sort of thing, quite apart
from any aspect of cleanliness,
is most unnecessary. Admitted,
the commercial apiarist works
under difficult conditions at
times: but there’s no excuse for
not straining honey. This will at
least put a clean product
into the honey-tank. Once there
it’s easy enough to keep it clean.
The tank, whether inside or out-
side the plant, should be kept
sufficiently covered to be bee-
proof. It is then a simple matter
to tin-up without adding a fair
proportion of the apiary popula-
tion.
In one yard the writer visited
some time ago a full tank was
left without any cover whatever.
There was a solid mass of some
four-inches of dead bees on the
surface of the honey. The
apiarist later complained because
his honey was given a low
rating./
Diastatic activity is another
big factor in honey-rating. A
good deal of Australian honey
has for some time been sent to
West Germany. German buyers
are most particular about the
diastatic activity, and use this
test for grading.
Diastase is destroyed by heat-
ing, and this process is sfi ted
during extracting. If c sn
methods of handling are us*..
clean product can be put on tire
packer’s floor and the extra
heating required is cut to a
minimum, thus tending to con-
serve the diastase. In addition,
the packer’s costs are reduced
and the apiarist can receive a
better price.
So acute has the position
become that at the last South
Australian conference in
Adelaide D. G. Wiedenhofer,
A.H.P. director, found it neces-
sary to express himself rather
forcibly on the subject. Samples
of honey received at the A.H.P.
floor were used to demonstrate
the point.
Again, samples forwarded
ahead for appraisal and quote
often do not genuinely represent
the consignment which follows,
Some will send ahead a first-
quality sample to represent a
consignment containing up to
four different lines of honey,
most of these second-grade,
Then it’s amazing to hear the
abuse hurled at the packer when
a consignment is downgraded.
It is in the apiarist’s own
interest to adopt clean working-
and handling-methods. Always
forward a genuine sample. If
a consignment contains several
lines send samples of each,
together with information
regarding quantity of each line.
Man v. Machines
“Boone”: In the U.S.A., at
least, machines are driving
thousands of people from rural
areas into the cities.
For instance, Missouri a
mixed-farming State about four-
fifths as big as Victoria —has
30,000 fewer farms than it had
five years ago. The decline has
been more rapid since 1950 than
it was in the 1940’5. As many
Missouri farms were lost during
the last five years as in the entire
10 preceding years.
Despite this, the amount of
land cultivated has not declined
—the result of consolidation
and larger operating-units.
Sub.-clover Seed
“Ann”: Although its make-
up has been made widely
known, some farmers do not
know how to recognise cer-
tified sub.-clover seed.
In N. S. Wales, each such bag
of seed carries a Department of
Agriculture label which declares
that the seed has been certified.
It also shows the strain of sub.-
clover, the registered area-
number, the season of harvest
and the purity and germination
certificate-numbers, and it is
signed by an officer of the de-
partment. If the seed is certified
standard, the free end of the
label carries a red band ; if it is
certified mother-seed, a blue
band. The free ends of the
twine with which the bag is
sown carry an official red or
blue seal, and enclosed in the
bag is a slip of paper bearing
the same details as the outside
label.
Mother-seed is from a stand
where no other strains of off-
type clover-plants are found;
the standard-grade allows a tol-
erance of 5 per cent, of other
strains.
It is false economy to save a
few shillings by buying uncer-
tified clover-seed, and misleading
to expect a good stand from it.
This seed generally contains a
mixture embodying small,
pinched and broken seed, along
with thistle- or weed-seeds, plus
straw and husks.
By contrast, the certified seed
carries a guarantee of 98 per
cent, purity and a germination-
test exceeding 70 per cent. The
difference in cost is small.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: A case of sickness
from organic poisoning in S.A.
underlines the need for care in
using same types of phosphates.
The settler was using parathion,
with a full kit of protective cloth-
ing except for goggles. Depart-
mental experts point out that the
chief danger from the use of
these types of pesticides is un-
necessary exposure to drift,
clothing getting wet, and leaking
hand-equipment. Every pre-
caution should be taken to see
that none of the concentrate
splashes the skin. A supply of
the antidote atropine should also
be kept. Where an allergy to
parathion has been noted, mala-
thion, which is as safe as D.D.T.
and as effective for most insects,
should be used.
“Quo Vadis”: Repair small
leaks in the bottom of petrol-
tanks without removal. Tin a
brass drawing-pin and fill the
concave side with solder. Clean
the leak-area with emery, flux
with killed spirits, tap pin into
place, and apply hot iron until
solder runs. For bigger holes,
use a galvanised roofing-nail and
raw spirits only. Have tank
empty and filler-cap off.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(22/4/’56)
Apart from some moderate falls in the northern division,
N.S.W. should receive only light, patchy rains during May.
In Queensland, general rains should occur in a large
part of the State, although the s'outh-west and portion of the
far-western division may have mainly light rain.
General rains should be received throughout Victoria
during May, and a good season should follow, although there
is a likelihood of severe frosts in the latter half of May.
Conditions should be similar in South Australia, with
good general rains in a large part of the State.
The south-west of Western Australia should experience
general rains during May, and good falls are likely in part
of the West Gascoyne, but poor elsewhere. Heavy falls
should occur on the coast from Perth southward.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Fty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for... . months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ...
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months
9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-.
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Dueabury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all Btate».
the mineral-industry generally by
exempting certain income:
(a) Prospecting, (i) Income derived
by a company from the sale, transfer
or assignment of its right to mine,
in a particular area of Australia or
the Territory of New Guinea, for gold
or certain prescribed metals and
minerals is exempt, provided the com-
pany has itself carried out the major
part of the prospecting. Further,
dividends paid out of such exempt
income are also exempt in the hands
of the shareholders.
(The prescribed list covers 39 metals
and minerals and includes asbestos,
bauxite, cobalt, copper, tungsten,
uranium, zircon, rutile, ilmenite, mon-
azite, nickel, etc. Lead, zinc and
petroleum are not included .)
(ii) With metals and minerals not
prescribed, such as lead and zinc, the
tax-liability on a premium, i.e., lump-
sums paid in cash or by instalments,
paid for the grant, assignment or
surrender of a mining lease, can
be borne either by the vendor or the
purchaser. If the purchaser assumes
responsibility the premium becomes
exempt from tax in the hands of the
vendor whilst the liability is discharged
by the purchaser not claiming, under
provisions which would otherwise
apply, a sinking-fund deduction in
respect of the consideration paid.
Where the vendor is a company such
exemption is not transmissible to the
shareholders.
(b) Mining, (i) Gold. Income,
other than income from pyrites,
derived by a company from the
working of a mining property in
Australia or the Territory of New
Guinea is exempt provided the
property is worked principally for
gold or gold/copper where the value
of gold is not less than 40 p.c. of
the value of the combined gold- and
copper-production. Further, dividends
paid out of suck exempt income is
exempt in the hands of the share-
holders.
00 Uranium. Income derived by a
co. resident in Australia from:
{a) The working of a mining
property in Australia or the
Territory of New Guinea for the
purposes of obtaining uranium-
bearing ore ; or
{b) The concentration in Aus-
tralia or the Territory of New
Guinea of uranium-bearing ore
mined by the company;
is exempt, provided that all the
recovered uranium becomes the
property of the Commonwealth
or is disposed of to a person
approved by the Commonwealth.
Further, dividends paid out of
such exempt income is exempt
in the hands of the shareholders.
These provisions are limited to the
income years ending June 30,
1956-1960, inclusive.
( fit ) Other Prescribed Metals and
Minerals. One-fifth of the income
derived by a co. from mining cer-
tain specified metals and minerals in
Australia is exempt. Further, divi-
dends paid out of such exempt in-
come is also exempt in the hands of
the shareholders. This provision is
limited to the income years ending
June 30, 1954-1960, inclusive.
The prescribed list covers the same
39 metals and minerals stated above,
lead, zinc and petroleum being again
excluded.
The exclusion of lead and zinc
from the provisions is probably
due to Government reluctance
to aid unnecessarily certain
established concerns which are
conducting highly profitable
operations on base-metal lodes
remarkable for their size and
richness.
This is unfortunate because
we have a number of promising
low-grade fields which might be
worth developing on a big scale.
Under the present legislation, the
large amount of capital neces-
sary for such development might
n6t- be forthcoming. Surely here
is sufficient ground for amending
legislation to allow lead and zinc
some form of tax-concession
which, if desired, could be
restricted to new mining enter-
prises.
concerned with the mystery of
what had happened to Gibbs.
At five-o’clock it was known
to the school that Gibbs had
been caught red-handed stealing
the pocket-money from the cash-
box in the Head’s desk. He had
also defaced each of the ten
volumes of the Children’s
Encyclopcedia on its stand in the
Head’s study. At the same time
it was known that Gibbs had had
a key made and at night had
been found in the cool-room eat-
ing the remains of the day’s
joints. Also, Gibbs had put
down poison for the Head’s cat,
which mopped and mowed at
night outside the dormitories.
The yardman, Dave, was impli-
cated because someone knew
that only last week Dave had
given Gibbs ten-shillings when
his cheque from home was late.
Also, Frester knew that Gibbs
had written home to his people
saying, “School stinks.”
In Dormitory One, Smith and
Barton stealthily packed their
smallest cases, which they hid
under the washroom outside,
counted their pocket-money, sold
a jar of prune-jam, a tattered
copy of The Specialist and a
couple of wanted disks, pooled
their resources, discovered them-
selves still short of their full
fares home.
“Anyway, we can hitch the
rest.”
111.
'THE evening meal was quiet.
Even Jimmy Rymachewski
was afraid to look openly at
the Head. Seven years of camp-
life in Tanganyika had taught
Jimmy when it was wise to keep
his eyes on his plate. He ate
his food methodically, quietly;
then helped his mother prepare
the room for the older boarders’
homework - period: stacked
trollies with morning dishes,
did his own homework in the
kitchen while his mother counted
spoons and forks. When the
homework-period ended and the
boys had gone Jimmy and his
mother straightened the room
for the morning.
“Mama, could we ask Mrs.
Employment to send us away?”
“No, no, Jimmy. No. Mrs.
Employ she say must it we stay ;
must it we work here. We all
right. We not worry.”
Jimmy’s face creased into the
lines of fear and worry that
camp-commandants and Heads
and employment-officers blue-
printed for him and his kind.
Then the Padre passed through
the hall, hand on Jimmy’s
shoulder as their paths crossed.
“Padre! Pliz?” said Mrs.
Rymachewska.
Jimmy said, “Good-evening,
Padre.”
“Jimmy. Jimmy Ryma-
chewski. Learning your cate-
chism? That’s right. And you,
Mrs. Rymachewska?”
“Padre. Pliz.” Mrs. Ryma-
chewska was full of little smiles
and bobs and bows.
“Good!” The Padre smiled
too and passed on his way to
the Head’s study.
“Good type, that Mrs. Ryma:
and the boy seems to be pro-
gressing nicely under your care.”
“Mrs. Ryma? Yes, she’s
being assimilated as well as any ;
better than I had expected. The
boy? Yes, he’s making nice
progress, Padre.”
There seemed little else to be
said then of the dining-room-
maid and her son, so the older
man walked to the window to
gaze a while at the late-evening
sunlight flooding the garden.
“The apricots are looking
well. Should be a few jars of
jam out of them this year.”
The Head said, “I’ll take a
couple of bottles down to your
sister when I go to the city next
week, Padre, Matron will be
making it up at the weekend.”
“Thank you, if you would.
Ah!” He sank luxuriously into
the wing-chair by the window.
“Ah! Good to bring the old
bones to rest once in a while.
And a tray! Matron is too
good. A cup of tea would have
been ample.”
Soon it was time for the Head
to move the denuded tray to his
desk and for the Padre to stretch
his long legs with a sigh, while
he fumbled with his pipe and a
few shreds in his tobacco-tin.
“Try some of this,” the Head
suggested, passing his fobacco-
jar. “Lucky, it’s just arrived
from the Old Country today.”
The two pipes glowed, the
evening passed in talk such as
only two men of the world of
letters, a Head and a Padre,
could appreciate to the full. At
nine-o’clock the Head produced
a bottle of beer from the
refrigerator and ham-sandwiches
that Matron had left for them.
At 10 it was time to disperse.
“Early to bed and early to
rise,” said the Head, and
“Letters to write,” said the
Padre.
Soon the House was quiet,
with only the light in the room
over in the dormitory-block
where the Padre sat by the
curtained window, writing.
“As your Grace suggested, I
have been observing the con-
duct of the school with a view to
the promotion of the present
Head to the city. It is with great
pleasure that I state I find the
Head’s carrying-out of his duties
is accomplished at a very high
level. He is conscientious to a
degree that spares himself in not
the slightest respect . .
The pen moved slowly over
the paper. The Padre tore a
sheet into small pieces, sat
a while, looked around the room,
settled his sparse frame into the
foam-rubber cushioning and
resumed his task.
“His discipline is firm but
kindly. The boys look to him
for guidance in every part of
their daily lives . . . material,
spiritual (when I am not able to
be with them).”
The pen moved more slowly.
The cleric gazed at the page be-
fore him. He rose and walked
to the mirror, observed his
reflection; he saw the ageing
face, the lines, the greyed hair,
he saw the years ahead. He
straightened the stoop at his
shoulders, went back to his seat
and his task.
“The staff look to him in
their daily round, a state of
affairs especially important now
that we are being assisted in our
work by these new arrivals who
bring much from Europe that
is of use and value to the culture
of the country.
“While recommending that
the promotion take place and
the Head be transferred, as pro-
posed, to the city, may I respect-
fully ask that consideration be
given to my own case? While I
am grateful to be spared for the
Lord’s work in whatever field
you may see fit to place me, I
am finding this constant travel-
ling might perhaps be the work
of a younger man: while by age,
experience and attainment, you
might be inclined to agree that
I would be well fitted to take
over the headmastership here
TN Dormitory One, Scott
groaned and flopped about in
his bed and Grange and Crane
went over to staff-quarters for
Matron, who transferred him to
sick-bay, settled him with his
medicine, calmed Perry and went
back to her room.
The yardman, in his camp at
the back of the dormitory-
block, wakened by the coming
and going, turned over, grunted,
“Let a man get a bit o’ sleep,
can’t you? Bloke ought to give
this away and go for the seeding.
That young Gibbs, now. His
old man must want help pretty
badly to send for the youngster
like that this morning.”
Dave, thoroughly awake now,
rolled a cigarette, felt in the
bottom of the tobacco-tin for
the piece of paper on which
Gibbs had written a telephone-
number when he came down to
return the half-quid he owed.
An’ don’t forget, Dave, there’s
always a job up home when you
want one.
Yes, they must be busy to send
for the young bloke like that,
pight in the middle of exams.
But what were exams to a
farmer when the crop was going
in? Home on that first train
after breakfast for young Gibbs.
Dave butted his smoke,
turned over and slept.
At staff-quarters Mrs. Podol-
ska said goodbye to the widowed
truck-driver, who stumbled off
in the darkness while she hid
the empty wine-bottles under the
creeper at the side of the laundry.
In his mother’s room, Mrs.
Rupa’s son packed tv/o tins of
oysters and a packet of biscuits
into his brief-case, returning the
key to the storeroom to her with
a grin. “Matron, she still look
for that key?”
In her room Mrs. Ryma-
chewska heated a cabbage-leaf
in hot water and tied it tightly
on a sore on Jimmy’s leg.
“Matron, she laugh,” she told
her son; “but is good, the cab-
bage-leaf, make well the sores.”
“Penicillin is better,” said
Jimmy. “We learn about that at
school.”
In her room Matron said, as
she got out of her dressing-
gown, “I wish I knew why he
sent Gibbs home.”
Then, for Scott’s next dose of
medicine, she set the alarm for
four-o’clock, got into bed and
turned out her light.
The day had closed.
For a moment the old fear
gripped her. She shut it reso-
lutely away with the night and
the wind.
From her bedroom window
she saw the early sun flash from
a windscreen two miles away,
where the narrow range-road
swept into view from behind a
hill. It was Tom, making good
time.
She waved to him from the
kitchen-window as he drove into
the yard, but when he stepped
from the utility she called to
him, “You can’t come in
through the door. Get a ladder
up to this window.”
Tom laughed. “What’s the
matter?” he said. “Has it
stuck, too? Throw me down
the key, I’ll soon open it.”
“It’s not stuck,” she said.
“There’s a snake in it.”
“A snake! You’re kidding?
Throw me down the key just the
same.”
“I will not,” she said. “You
climb up here and kill it. I
slammed the door on it, and
most of it, pretty well all of it,
is hanging on this side.”
“Well, for crying out loud!”
He stood looking up, roaring
with laughter, and she felt her
face grow hot. “Very well, I’ll
climb up.”
He brought her stick through
the window with him, and kissed
her boisterously before he even
glanced at the door. Then he
turned.
“You’ve caught it all right,”
he said in astonishment. “Well,
I’ll be damned! ” He thrust the
stick into her hand. “Now kill
it.”
“I’ll do nothing of the sort,”
she said.
“Look,” he said, suddenly
serious. “You kill it now, while
I’m beside you. If you don’t,
I’m leaving you the stick,
and I’m going out that window,
and I’m not coming back until
it’s dead.”
TN a vicious rage she lashed at
A the weaving head, felt the
stick strike flesh, saw the snake
collapse and hang for the
moment limp and still.
Tom opened the door and the
broken body dropped to the
floor. “Good girl! ” he said.
“You see, there’s nothing to it.
First time takes a bit of doing,
that’s all.”
“What utter rubbish!” Still
furious with Tom, and flushed
with achievement, she boasted,
“If I’d had the stick up here I’d
have killed it last night!”
Tom grinned. “The stick!”
he said. “What was wrong with
the broom-handle?”
“The broom!” she said, un-
consciously copying his ex-
clamation. “I never thought of
it, and I had it in my hand when
I came in. Honest to goodness,
Tom, I didn’t give it a thought.”
And then, to cover her con-
fusion, she asked, “What is it?”
“They call it a night-tiger
around these parts.”
“Is it venomous?”
“Not supposed to be—that is,
not very. Probably hurt about
as much as a bull-ant, and not
make you nearly as sick as a
summer shellback. When did
you jamb him up?”
“Last night about ten-o’clock.”
He touched the now-slowly-
writhing body with his toe.
“Poor creature! ” he said. “What
a hell of a night he must have
had!”
THE ENEMY
The enemy bury their dead.
Triumph! <
The shark eats my son,
Avenges ten million of fish
Eaten by fathers of man—
The enemy buries its dead:
The enemy—German or French,
Or tiger or tiny mollusc,
A virus, a mite or a scum—
The enemy buries its dead.
QUEENSLAND.
LLEWELYN.


[njoy the Best Reading at the Lowest Price
Join Morgans Book Club
Our list No. 2 lias just been released and includes:—
PUBLISH AND BE DAMNED—the astonishing- story of the Daily Mirror by
Hugh Cudlipp, who was editor of the paper for 20 years. An extremely interesting
book formerly 20/- now 9/- posted to members only.
FOB EVER ENGLAND compiled by Collie Knox. An excellent series of poems,
extracts from letters, essays and articles from famous men and women about England.
Only 4/9 posted.
<iRANADA WINDOW by Marguerite Steen. A nostalgic picture of Southern Spain.
6/8 posted to members only.
YESTERDAY WAS MINE by Princess Anne-Marie Callimaehi. Memoir of a Rumanian
Princess. Usually 27/6 now 8/6 posted.
PEOPLE'S PADRE by Emmett McLoughlin. A controversial book published only last
year. Autobiography of a Franciscan who forsook his church in IJ.S.A. and
founded his own organisation to deal with slums. Usually 18/9, now 10/6 posted
to members.
LOOK BEFORE YOU ELOPE, by Peter Kneebone. Well drawn and well captioned
cartoon by one of England’s foremost cartoon-humourists. Published 12/6. To
members 4/9 posted.
LAWRENCE OF ARABIA by R. Aldington. The most controversial book of the past
10 years. Normally 32/3 posted. Now only 21/-.
HOW TO BECOME A MEMBER
Purchase any three or more of the following titles or, if you wish, include some
from previous titles, to make a total of at least r three.
MORGANS
BOOK CLUB
8 Castlercagh St.,
Sydney
ORDER AND MEMBERSHIP FORM
I forward herewith £.../•••/••• f° r m y choices
(listed herewith).
NAME
ADDRESS
Churchill’s Latest Book
A HISTORY OF THE
ENGLISH-SPEAKING
PEOPLES
Vol. I. The Birth of Britain, by
Winston S. Churchill. This new history
by Churchill will comprise four volumes.
Volume I tells the story of Britain from
the conquest by Julius Caesar to the
reign of Richard 111. 38/6 (post 1/5)
TERATURE
THE PUBLIC LIBRARY OF
VICTORIA, 1856-1956
This book is of great historical interest.
It is the story of the development of
the public library of Victoria from its
opening in 1856. There is also a section
devoted to fifty rare and valuable books,
and manuscripts which are housed in
the library. The book is fully illus-
trated. 25/- (post lid.)
You’ll find these and all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l
St., SYDNEY.
Available from all booksellers
THE SIXTH OF JUNE
by Lionel Shapiro . . 18s. 9d.
A novel of love and war. To rival ‘H.M.S. Ulysses. A first-rate
novel. Descriptions of fighting have never been bettered.
—Nancy Spain, London Daily Express.
Collins
Publishers
going missing even in the best-ordered
households:—
How else to explain the steady,
but inexplicable, disappearance of
certain small objects about the
house? Not only safety-pins, needles,
pencils, blotting-paper, matchboxes
and those sort of things, but, even in
Kate’s short life, she had noticed that
if you did not open a drawer for any
length of time you never found it
quite as you left it: something was
always missing—your best handker-
chief, your only bodkin, your
carnelian heart, your lucky sixpence
. . . “But I know 1 put it in this
drawer” —how often had she said
these words herself, and how often
had she heard them said?
As a matter of fact, except for pinch-
ing an old boot to live-in after they
have been turned out of the house by
the rat-catchers, the borrowers don’t
do much borrowing in this volume. To
see them in their full glory you would
have to turn to Miss Norton’s first
book, “The Borrowers,” which many
English reviewers thought might be-
come a new children’s classic.
But, searching vaguely for their
relatives, the Hendrearies, who have
gone to live in a badger’s burrow, at
any rate they live delightfully in the
fields, finding nuts and other oddments
to eat, escaping from weasels, owls and
gipsies, boiling their billy of tea
in the lid of an aspirin-bottle over a
stub of candle, and eventually meet-
ing their poaching cousin, Spiller, who
reinforces their larder with gifts of
grilled fieldmice. There are three in
the borrower-family—Pod, Homily
and their daughter Arrietty: all most
amusing characters—and there is quite
a hair-raising scene when, near the end,
their boot having been reclaimed by its
rightful owner, they are dodging a cat
under the cupboard in a gipsy’s
caravan.
The book is marred, but not
ultimately damaged, by a long, con-
fusing introduction retelling the
events in the earlier volume —one
hopes that Miss Norton, who looks all
set to go on writing about the
borrowers for ever, does not fall into
Hugh Lofting’s error of filling half of
each new book with a recapitulation
borrowed from its predecessors.
The illustrations by Diana Stanley,
a colored frontispiece and many in
black-and-white, catch exactly the
right note of humor and sensitivity to
Nature to match the text.
Underwater Near Ceylon
So much has been written in English
about fish in general and spear-fishing
in particular that the only new species
to be found is of author or treatment,
and on this ground—that the author is
Italian and the scene Ceylon, and that
the book has been translated from the
Italian — Lord of the Sharks, by Franco
Prosperi (Hutchinson), may recom-
mend itself to eyes rimed with the salt
(and a grain or two of salt is well in
keeping) of underwater-reading.
Dr. Prosperi, a biologist of Rome,
with Carlo Gregoretti and Paolo
Cavara, went with underwater-cameras
and harpoon-guns to take notes and
collect specimens in Ceylon waters in
1951. They spent some time on the
little island of Andura. and then, in a
dilapidated lugger, went on to Kara-
tivu. Dr. Prosperi writes chattily all
the way, of “groupers” and a “poison-
fish” of the rocks and corals which may
be recognised as the Barrier Reef
“stone-fish.” They have battles with
sharks, as a result of which the Anduran
fishermen call them “Matea Mora”—
Lords of the sharks.
There is a stirring account of their
attack upon a big grey-nurse shark in
an underwater cave—but it turns out
to be only Bft. long and weighs only
1871 b.; riot that it wouldn’t have intimi-
dated the reviewer, but one expects
mightier and mightier results as the
spear-fishing books run off the presses.
They make a more frightening job of
an encounter with a moray-eel; horrible
and venomous. Long after the reviewer
had decided to swim back to the boat
Dr. Prosperi and friends were sinking
a harpoon into the eel’s brain and try-
ing to drag it, still living and dangerous,
out of the underwater hole to which it
had run for cover.
Indeed, by halfway through the book,
when one has observed them shooting
big devil-fish (stingrays) with spear-
guns—-all this while they are in the
water with the fish —one decided that
they must have been very inexperienced
or very brave. After the encounter
with “the great white shark” one felt
they must have been both.
This shark, 19ft. or 20ft. long, swam
over them when they had gone below
with the camera off Galle. They
screamed at it, which made it turn a
little away; but it always came back
again. So they began to photograph it
from “fifty feet, then thirty, then
fifteen”:—
Finally I managed to surprise him,
much puzzled by my behavior, at
seven-feet in a close-up.
They came to the surface for air;
the shark, evidently deciding they were
afraid of him, came on to attack; Carlo
aimed his spear-gun; the shark turned-
off and swam in a circle, watching
them. At this point it occurred to the
Doctor and Carlo that a photograph of
Carlo with the shark might be appreci-
ated; so Carlo dived; the Doctor fol-
lowed; the shark swam towards them
with his escort of pilot-fish; and the
Doctor pressed the button and began
filming. And then, as the shark passed
close to him, Carlo aimed his harpoon-
gun and shot the shark in the gills.
The shark swam in a circle, trying
to rock out the harpoon; then it began
to leave the scene at speed. The
harpoon-line turned over the Doctors
foot and caught; and down he started
to go after the shark; he freed his foot
and the line wrapped itself round his
chest; and he was unconscious and
almost drowned when Carlo managed
to catch up with him and cut the line;
hauling him aboard their lugger.
In the Galle hospital that night they
told him they had retrieved the camera
from the seabed, but that it had been
broken. But evidently the film was all
right, because one of the many pictures
in this book shows Carlo swimming
under the great white shark.
There are also several excellent color-
pictures, and the text is illustrated with
drawings of fish.
The Seagull on the Step: Kay Boyle
(Faber). A young American girl, a
painter engaged to a U.S. foreign-
office official in Paris, goes to a remote
French fishing-village to seek a French-
man called Vaillant; the brakes of the
bus fail and she is one of the few
saved. The book becomes a mystery
of who conked the brakes: the sinister
doctor, the ageing general’s wife, the
pompous mayor, the estate-agent, the
old cracked Algerian or the Resistance
hero himself? Anywhere the author
can work it in the characters become
a parable of France —about the only
country in the world that seems to bring
out the hysterical emotionalism of
other countries while leaving its own
nationals cool, calm and collecting.
IN THAT CREEK-BED
In that creek-bed,
in its fern-gully
made green and cool
by maidenhair,
is the content of lovers, lady:
we will lie there.
While overhaad
the lillipilli
patterns all
the empty sky
we will make a poem, lady,
that will never die.
Though I must lead
and you must follow
(the path goes down
a steep of stone)
when we arrive together, lady,
we’ll not be alone.
So, if you need
a silly fellow,
do not complain
but love and come;
if we are together, lady,
we will find home.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 380
Across
I—Sly tribe to doom. (11)
6—Has chopped a tree. (3)
8— Staining the royal breakfast after
breakfast. (6)
9 But the lock is part of a Gothic
structure. (8)
11— Putting a twist in relations with
the sovereign. (7)
12 — Powerful and severe medico like
a muscular twitch. (7)
14 — The first person in France and a
Puccini heroine halved a parent
Puddleduck. (6)
15 — Midge writes the poetic epitaph.
(5)
17 — Measure a letter. (3)
18— Where spray is a cause of blind-
ness. (8)
21 — It isn't good to breathe in the
water-store brace. (4, 3)
22 — Melbourne suburb presents the
case against Clem. (3,4)
23 European alderman goes against
the grain, before I take one. (8)
25 — Thus employs pickles. (6)
26 Carpenter’s implement incurring
the risk of courtmartial. (3)
27 — Dresser with consumption takes
the ash-container’s poet. (6, 5)
Down
1 — Brood over this sustenance money
of very slight importance. (7, 4)
2 Issuing invitations like a
monarch. (6)
3 Where the fox hides metal on
the east substance of which teeth
are made. (7)
4 Willow upset a label. (3)
5 Pull out a sundry over Connecti-
cut. (7)
6 Imitator joining the Trades
Union about an opening. (8)
7 Ha-ha. (3)
10 —Shining brood of Agnes. (8)
12 — Family help is upset at first by
such a long and bitter criticism.
(8)
13— The rich millinery takes it to a
place where duels are fought.
00
16 —A man of mark. (8)
18—Babble with a milliner after 100.
(7)
19'—See some beef dresser of the
hair fop. (7)
20 —Hardy was Nelson’s mouthpiece.
(6)
23 — In leaving China tea. (3)
24 — A pound is needed for a clerical
garment. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 379


V.
IAA>
m
% Stf
m ?n
7! *?
V Ay '%•> ”/o
% f If | n
a- 7 /; •' a •' • i
.:/ •■■.. .
NARROW
SHV
*»«ir**
H
P®
it*""'
HA?/
BRIDGE
£*3
%i"" *iW»" x 'w t/' v " ,I4 >*t. ' '" 4|
VViO/// ,/
'f&JL..
MW
#
~t
*r,^rw.
•'■Mb, r/ "
»U li, 1 , 'i'V V(
&J3T*.
|\PSS
MS
i
m
I
81
1
£0
I
I
I
■i
I
i
1
ifiw
i
&
i
' :
i
59
I
I
‘fi
s»
..~~
'< 3 Y^r
\
p *iJS!
M
rrvi
You’re looking at a Killer!
This is typical of hundreds of spots on Australia’s roads which have earned reputations as
killers. You know them yourself. Even careful drivers, knowing a road well, don’t like the
sudden sharp bend on to a narrow bridge. Year after year, spots like this claim life after life.
They rob your pocket, too. By slowing down transport, they add to the cost of goods. Some-
where along the line, from farm to market, factory to shop, you pay the extra.
An efficient, modern transport system needs wide, straight roads for fast, safe travel on
business or pleasure. Bottlenecks like narrow bridges strangle a country. Removing them
is sound economics, yet sufficient money hasn’t been made
available to do so. It’s no particular government’s fault.
Rather it is a community failure in allowing pick-n-shovel
roads to persist in a machine age. And it’s no new problem.
Other nations with growing pains have had to tackle it. It’s
a national problem needing national attention. New Zealand,
for example, only came to grips with its road problem when a
national roads board was charged with solving it. U.S.
Congress faced up to a similar situation to ours back in 1921
with its Federal Highways Act. Looks like Australia could do
with a national roads authority. What do
you think ?
NOT THIS
THIS
DIESEL ENGINES • TRACTORS
MOTOR GRADERS . EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
>NOW°’ S 0 f
ff' 6 .1
Xff
V** 0 '
* CATERPILLAR AND CAT ARE
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.A.
prn
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
