

SWEET OR DR Y
The Bulletin
THE HORSE’S BEST FRIEND-mge 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3974
Wednesday, April 11, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
"EVIDENCE of the heavy death duties
which Britain’s landowners havte
faced in recent years is the case of Cote-
hele House which was accepted by the
Government in 1946 in lieu of death
duties from the sixth Earl of Mount
Edgecumbe. The following year it was
given by the Treasury to the National
Trust by whom it is now administered.
Like their many other great and historic
properties, Cotehele is open to the public
at certain times on payment of a small
admission charge.
This medieval mansion, one of the
best preserved baronial dwellings in
Britain, stands in terraced gardens high
above the river Tamar in the parish of
Calstock, Cornwall. It remains today
very much as it did at the end of the
15th century in the reign of Henry VII
when it was built by Sir Richard Edge-
cumbe. The family held the manor for
nearly six hundred years and they pre-
served not only the medieval structure
but also the contents so that today it is
a treasure-house which attracts the interest
and admiration of many visitors to that
part of Cornwall.
The magnificent furniture, tapestries
and armour have been generously left on
loan by the Earl of Mount Edgecumbe
and are outstanding examples of fine
craftsmanship. Mortlake and Flemish
tapestries decorate the walls of the bed-
room once occupied by King Charles I.
In 1789 George 111, Queen Charlotte and
their daughters were entertained at
Cotehele. Here can be seen a small silk
satchel which was a gift to a member of
the family from Queen Victoria. In the
same room is preserved a letter from Lord
Nelson, written on the Agamemnon in
1794, and a letter from the Duke of
Wellington dated December, 1840.
An outstanding feature of the interior
is the Great Hall which served as a mead
tavern during the Festival of Britain.
The roof is still in its medieval form and
on the rough stone floor stands a massive
oak refectory table which displays 17th-
century pewter, much of it bearing the
Edgecumbe arms. On the walls hang
trophies of the chase, halberds, pikes,
bills, swords, daggers and other ancient
weapons of war which are associated with
Agincourt and other famous battles of
long ago. Here, also, is a massive two-
handled sword which is reputed to have
belonged to the Black Prince, who became
the first Duke of Cornwall in 1337.
No. 293: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
HISTORY'S FOOTSTEPS ECHO IN THE GREAT HALL OF COTEHELE HOUSE


IiOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume. Jet us find it for you—Action, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
"AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE"
T7IFTEEN years ago the Melbourne
A University Press, with substantial
financial aid from the Commonwealth
Government, published E. Morris
Miller’s descriptive and bibliographical
survey of Australian literature from its
beginnings to 1935, with subsidiary
entries to 1938. Now, under the title
Australian Literature (Angus and
Robertson) it has been revised, re-
arranged and extended to 1950 by
Frederick T. Macartney.
Dr. Miller’s bibliography contained
lists of books in chronological order
in the class-divisions of poetry, fiction,
drama, essays, criticism and anthology.
The bibliographies, which were
copiously annotated, together with a
list of non-Australian authors of novels
associated with Australia and three very
elaborate indexes, occupied more than
half of the text of the two volumes.
The remainder was given over to a
lengthy and learned introduction, sur-
veys of the various sections and over
200 biographical and literary sketches.
It was not a critical survey—although
Dr. Miller did not refrain from assess-
ing values —but rather a vast com-
pendium for those who desired infor-
mation about what had been written
in Australia or by Australians in the
various fields of creative imaginative
literature.
Its chief fault was the inconvenient
arrangement of the entries, notwith-
standing the provision of the three
comprehensive indexes. But when one
became familiar with its peculiarities
it became a cherished friend, a vast
treasury containing a multitude of
interesting facts.
From its pages I learned, for
example, that Quong Tart, wealthy
owner of a Chinese cafe in Sydney, was
an occasional writer of short-stories;
that Kendall first appeared in print in
the “Australian Home Companion and
Band of Hope Journal”; that Victoria
Racing Club secretary Byron Moore
produced two books of fairytales; and
that Grant Hervey’s novel, “An Eden
of the Good,” was written in Bathurst
jail. And so on.
It was obvious, nevertheless, that
when the time came for the biblio-
graphy to be revised and brought up
to date, a rearrangement of its contents
and a general spring-cleaning were
essential. That has now happened.
Macartney’s compilation is a little more
than half the size of the original. The
publishers are to be congratulated on
the excellence of the layout, printing
and binding.
Macartney has made such radical
changes that it is virtually a different
book.
The bibliography is now in alpha-
betical order of authors’ names, with no
other division, and with the different
kinds of books denoted. This common-
sense arrangement does away with the
need for the old index of authors,
though that was extremely useful in
other respects; for instance, in the case
of writers who had not published books
but who were represented in anthologies
or referred-to in the annotations.
The literary approach, which is the
basis of the new edition, “makes sub-
ject-matter in itself of such little conse-
quence” that Macartney has been able
to dispense with Miller’s indexes of
fiction-subjects and name-subjects.
Valuable as were those two indexes,
their discontinuance was inevitable in a
condensed edition.
Few will object to Macartney’s
exclusion, except for some of “special
reputation,” of children’s books as a
separate field from adult literature, but
there will be many who will regret
the disappearance of all translations
scholastic works and books of literary
criticism not concerned with Australian
literature, for instance, the works of
Mungo MacCallum, Charles Badham
E. H. C. Oliphant, T. G. Tucker and
A. R. Chisholm.
Macartney also leaves out—here fol-
lowing Miller—many autobiographies
and biographies and books of history
philosophy, travel, art and science, be-
cause they are not “writings inten-
tionally imaginative in substance or
treatment.”
In his commentaries, and they fun
to more than 300, Mr. Macartney
is as dispassionate as he is in his
“Historical Outline.” On the whole,
his assessments are remarkably sound
and very lucidly expressed.
As a literary research-worker, how-
ever, with some knowledge of the
subject-matter of this bibliography,l am
not so well satisfied with some of the
inclusions and omissions. For instance,
there are commentaries on Helen
Power, Edith Vivian and Winifred
Shaw, three little-known poets, but no
information concerning a large number
of poets who are at least more widely
known than the three mentioned. The
same is true in the case of many prose-
writers.
Here is a list of writers—some
important; some minor—whom I con-
sider deserving of more adequate men-
tion: John Philip Bourke, Emily Bul-
cock, Peter Bladen, Boyce Bowden,
Kathleen Dalziel, Con Drew, E. S.
Emerson, E. M. England, Nellie A.
Evans, Edmund Fisher, W. T. Goodge,
Montague Grover, W. E. Harney,
Edward Harrington, Grant Hervey,
F. S. Hibble, Stewart Howard, Francis
Kenna, Stefan von Kotze, Hilary Loft-
ing, Llwelyn Lucas, Amy Mack, Grace
Martyr, Jack Mathieu, Phillip Mow-
bray, Francis Myers, Ernest Osborne,
R. S. Porteous, Frank Reid, H. E.
Riemann, Les Robinson, Mary Simp-
son, Richmond Thatcher, Gilbert Turn-
bull, Oscar Walters, Ernest Wells,
C. H. Winter.
While these writers are, in my
opinion, too briefly mentioned, there
are a number of minor writers of today
treated, on the other hand, at quite
disproportionate length.
Stopping as the book does at the
end of 1950, it necessarily lags behind
accomplishments. It has been possible,
however, in a few instances to add
details later than the period covered
by the work as a whole. In the case
of authors who have died during the
preparation of the book there is a
curious reluctance to give, though the
year is often stated, the exact date of
death—a useful lead for those wanting
to read newspaper obituary-notices.
Exact dates of birth are also omitted
with surprising frequency.
More importantly, there are a con-
siderable number of mistakes: every
knowledgeable reader will doubtless be
able to compile his own list. Here are
a few at random: Arthur H. Adams
did not “edit the Sydney ‘Sun’ for about
six years” (page 29); “L. Bladen”
should read Peter Bladen (page 64);
“Isabell Ramsay” should read Isabelle
Ramsay (page 124); Velia Ercole did
not win a “Bulletin” novel competition
(page 165); Frank Fox edited “The
Lone Hand,” not “assisted in editing”
(page 166); “Cyril Good” should read
Cyril Goode (page 196); Nora Kelly
(page 262) and “Nora McAuliffe” (page
301) are the same person; Bertha
Lawson, who was joint-editor with
J. Le Gay Brereton of “ ‘Henry
Lawson,’ by His Mates,” was the
daughter, not the widow, of Henry
Lawson (page 279); “H. E. Boot”
should be H. E. Boote (page 279);
Agnes Conor O’Brien (Mrs. William
Macleod) conmbuted to “The Bulletin”
under the pen-name of “Akenehi,” not
“Akemlu” (page 317); “Musette
Morrell” was Moyna Martyn, who
married John Delaney (page 343);
James Alexander Philip (page 379) is
identical with James Alexander Philp
(page 380).
A most valuable and interesting com-
pilation in spite of these reservations,
this Macartney volume cannot be said
to have entirely superseded the Miller
volumes, which have an independent
worth: rather, it supplements them.
W. E. Fitz Henry.
ADVICE FOR VACATIONS
You of the galleys—schools and offices—
Here is your handout of liberty;
Reach for your dole of rostered freedom,
Plan the getaway, the annual spree.
Collate the data of pamphlet and poster,
Weigh the problem: to drive or to fly;
Explorer, chart your expedition
To Surfers’ Paradise or Bondi.
Blaze the trail, O Pioneer Tourist,
Follow the stars with T.A.A.
Hero, scribble your personal history
Along the Sturt or the Hume Highway.
Explode your life’s secure foundations,
Inspect the trailer and patch the tent,
Streamline a happy wheeled existence,
Prop up the ego, broken or bent.
Obliterate the Before and After,
The Here your Heaven, enisled, alone,
Abstract the moment from milestone to
milestone,
Make absolute Singleton to Scone.
Turn the gold pages of plantations,
Thumb through the seriality of trees,
Catch through the monotonous purr of
pistons
The ocean’s coastal symphonies.
The sly lewd fauns that haunted you
At home, rise naked to the tyres—
Gather about the chillness in the backbone
The strength of your desires.
Now is the gay month of manumission—
Study the seaside ads. and sift the form,
Hurry the articulation of your precious
Little deviations from the norm.
N.S.W.
J. S. ROWLAND.
Sergeant Chuck of Sydney
One of the more elegant rhymes one
remembers from one’s schooldays
begins:—
Hugo Tuck
Had very bad luck.
Sung by the older boys, it was, one
thought, about some legendary ill-
doer; until, opening The Bogeyman:
The Story of Joe Chuck, by Vince
Kelly (Angus and Robertson), one
found Hugo there as large as life,
murdered in his Elizabeth-street flat in
1919; and very properly so —a most
distasteful person, subject of an early
investigation by plainclothes Constable
Joe Chuck.
Not a very nice case; neither was the
World War I case of the Carrington-
street boarding-house where young men
went in and came out dressed as women
to accompany their “husbands” to
theatres and restaurants; but a young
constable must start somewhere and
work up to the nice clean cases,
graduating from impersonating jovial
waterfront Greeks peddling ice-cream
and blind beggars looking for sly-grog
shops, to those great moments when,
in full evening-dress, or even in elegant
fancy-dress, he can stand as though in
the spotlight in some night-club, pro-
curing a hush and thrill that a Richard-
son or an Olivier might envy with the
simple announcement: “I’m Chuck.”
The laws which raised Constable
Chuck to this eminence had a curious
consequence:—
Due undoubtedly to the activities
of Joe Chuck, Paris House, Holland
House, the Ambassadors and other
posh restaurants sadly closed their
doors one by one, but others opened
up whose proprietors were prepared
to risk Chuck’s activities. Best known
of these was a man who emerged
from the underworld. His name was
Phillip Jeffs, alias Davis, better
known as Phil the Jew.
On the other hand, it was Sergeant
Chuck’s report to the Federal Govern-
ment that got Canberra off the water-
wagon. Imported to the A.C.T. to seize
sly-groggers, he explained why he found
none:—
What chance was there of making
a profit by charging a blackmarket
margin for a bottle while every
second person was a bootlegger in an
honorary capacity?
But those who think that art justifies
all may pardon the liquor and gambling
laws which provided the stage for so
brilliant an entertainer as Sergeant
Chuck. What dramatist could devise
so witty a farce as that at Victoria Park
racecourse where the illegal bookies,
stampeding at the news that the coppers
were on the hill, jumped under the
canvas of a rabbit-oh’s cart, promising
the rabbit-oh five-shillings for wheeling
them out of danger, and were duly
wheeled by rabbit-oh Chuck to Dacey-
ville police-station? What romantic
novelist could have bettered the Hyde
Park scene of a lover trying to recon-
cile his two screaming lasses, which
misled the attention of a two-up school’s
cockatoos for long enough to enable
Sergeant Chuck, at the head of a dozen
policemen, to lower a ladder from a
building next-door to the school and,
with a party of sturdy lovers hurriedly
leaving their girls in the vicinity and
closing the street-entrances, to arrest 46
tosspenny malefactors?
Such genius provokes glory, even in
its defeats, as when the barber who,
under his very eyes, made the betting-
slips to vanish explained long after-
wards that he had tucked them inside
his customer’s shirt while fixing the
cloth round his neck; and as in the
beautiful story of the raid that failed:
A young police Recruit was in love
with a girl whose father was a
wharflaborer and a regular player at
the wheat-wharf. In the strictest
confidence the recruit asked her to
persuade her father to stay away
from the game next day, and the
man, of course, passed the warning
on to others.
These are the more sublime moments
of Sergeant Chuck’s career, but those
fond of ordinary everyday sordor will
find a naked girl in an opium-den, a
sly-grog brothel at Moore Park, some
notes on the notorious N. S. Wales
Cabinet Minister, the late Mr. T. J. Ley,
the extraordinary story of the kid-
napped Czech informer and the even
more extraordinary story of the in-
former Angel Gabriel—in fact, the use
of informers is much canvassed in this
book. It was severely condemned by
a royal commissioner, Judge Marked,
as a result of whose findings Sergeant
Chuck was dismissed the Force in
1936.
Prominent persons spoke on his be-
half, and he was reinstated in 1938 with
full honor; a good cop as cops go, and.
as another cop found who tried it, and
retired with a bitten leg amid shouts
of “Go on, Louis! Bite the bloody mug
copper,” an actor of genius.
Somewhat lacking in style and
humor, and rather overloaded with
details of minor crimes and minor
raids, Mr. Kelly’s book is nevertheless
adequate and entertaining.
Children's Poetry
Children writing in old metres might
seem to be putting new wine into old
bottles; but the ideas of children are as
old-fashioned as traditional technique,
as will be seen from Young Australia
Speaks, a pamphlet of “Prize-winning
and Commended Poems in the Young
People’s Poets’ Competition, 1955,
Arranged by Poetry—Poets —People.”
It is only to be expected, then, that
these little pieces should be rearrange-
ments of what has been already said,
in forms already established —most
published adult verse does no more—
though those doubtful of the ability of
a young person to have and convey an
idea possibly original and certainly of
considerable subtlety might consult
“Puppets” by Drazel Solomon: —
I went to puppets one afternoon
To see what I could do ;
I made a head and body soon
And gave it legs, too.
This wooden doll with strings to pull
Was made by me ;
I wonder if God made me like that,
Without eyes to see
The trees in pleasant wood,
And streams that flow
Where the gum-tree stood.
Oh, how I wish that I could make
Some eyes to see for Him.
Eyes aware
Of beauty here,
And the peace of churches dim.
The thought is twisted and confused
by the necessity for rhymes, and pos-
sibly by inability to realise it com-
pletely—and look how convention
governs the young mind, so that
when it considers what would be a
laudable object for eyes to see, it
rejects iced cakes, beach-balls, pet
cats and party-ribbons, and plumps
for dim churches.
Next to this ability to weave thought
into patterns comes direct observation,
as in “First Night,” by Jeanette
Cook: —
In the wings there’s a bustle, a stifling
smell
Of make-up and smoke and of
flowers as well.
And presumably Jeanette Hoolahan’s
“Grandad” is from the life: —
Grandad makes the horses’ shoes,
Grandad works with nails and
screws.
Janice Dalton’s “The Snow Goose”
and Margaret Alderton’s picture of
the deep sea are among other poems of
merit.


: ; v'
xix
' :
r ' ,
m
\W
Wx'S
■ ■ •
:: .:
wmm
S
wm
■ m
x i
m
> •
* t « s -> '
* i
s^SS!®®?
Mill ST RAT ED
m
Womsm Sforuo^
AUSTRAL!
lUU.STMTSD
5 »
6 # ‘
... : -xx- ✓...;>•. ...x:' ’’...■/"
I^lllllllll^
Ae
Anthwy Hordtras’
Melbourne newspaper reports
frequently made reference to
the shocking condition of the
city roads during early times.
H
>rr ',
Above: Leaping on Ken'
nedy’s horse as it bolted past
him, Constable Mclntyre
made good his escape.
%
m
Undeterred by heavy enemy
shellfire, Australian and N.Z.
troops land at Gallipoli and
heroically advance up the
steep scrub'covered hillside.
240 pages and aver 325
illustrations produced on art paper on
The Story of Australia”
Written in fascinating prose and fully illustrated
For years now there has been a great need for an Australian history written for
the man'in-the'Street. In “The Story of Australia Illustrated” the publishers know
they are offering a book that every Australian, new and old, will enjoy reading.
It tells in simple language the story of this great land from earliest times right
up to the present day, and every page is packed with interest. Priced at 27/6.
Has most complete collection of interesting pictures assembled in 1 volume
Children, too, will thoroughly enjoy “The Story of Australia Illustrated , for, apart
from its great educational value, it is essentially a welhillustrated adventure story book
and will be read and enjoyed as such.
Enthusiastic recommendation from leading authorities
Two comments typical of the many received are: “The Story of Australia Illustrated
is a book which will appeal both to adult and youthful readers, and w&uld be a
very good book in every school library, on every prize list and in every home.
ORDER FORM
"The Story of Australia Illustrated", Box 2712, G.P.0., Sydney.
1
Please send me copies of "The Story of Australia",
(a) I enclose remittance for £
(b) Please charge to my account.
NAME: ..
ADDRESS:
(In block letter, please
I
priced at 27/6.
Chapters include
First visitors . . ... Cook’s
momentous discovery . . .
Voyage out of the first Aus-
tralian Settlers . . . The
Original Sydney Settlement
. . . The Exploits of Bass
and Flinders . . . The Foun-
dation of Tasmania . . . The
Story of William Buckley
. . . The Rum Rebellion . . .
Conquest of the Rugged
Blue Mountains . . . The
Romance of Early Melbourne
. . . The Romance of Aus-
tralian Postal Services . . .
The Overlanders . . . Eyre’s
Dramatic Journey West . . .
Sturt’s Epic Journey Inland
. . . The Mysterious Disap-
pearance of the Leichhardt
Expedition . . . Australia’s
Golden Age . . . The Story
of the Telegraph . . . The
Development of Australian
Railways . . . The revolt at
Eureka . . . The Tragedy of
the Burke and Wills’ Ex-
pedition . . . Bushrangers of
Australia . . . Birth of the
Commonwealth . . . The
Last Fight of the Emden . . .
The Anzacs at Gallipoli . . .
V.C. Winners of Two
World Wars ... The Syd-
ney Harbour Bridge . . .
Queen Elizabeth II Visits
Australia.
]RU'!H IN ADVcRYIS'IN
ik,


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3974
Wednesday, April 11, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. k. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971. T
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zbaland : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.O. ), Wellington.
THE AUSTRALIAN TARGET
ATOMIC politics are bringing to Australia the
need for a review of its defence measures. The
nuclear-bomb technique has assumed a role of its
own. Few authorities now look on hydrogen and
nuclear-fission bombs as active agents of war-
time use. They have become “deterrents,” weapons
of intimidation. The idea that any Western nation
might be prepared to use them before an enemy
has used them is fantastic. But that the Russians
might use them is not. Only expediency prevents
them.
Whereas the outlook of the West is driven by
a moral repugnance to the taking of human life, the
Slav-Asian places little price on it. The huge
massacres of their own people in the Ukraine, the*'
immolation of minorities of the Volga and the
Black Sea littorals, the purges of hundreds of
thousands of political opponents and inconvenient
rivals in the 1930’s are publicly regretted by the
present leaders of the Soviet Union (whose thought
is Asian if some of their blood is not), but it is not
condemned for the reasons it is in the West.
Stalin, who was responsible for most of these
things, committed, it seems, “regrettable errors”—
followed “the wrong line”—but they were only
errors.” Those who obeyed him and carried out
his orders and who now rule Russia are prepared
to admit as much and to follow the right path as
they see it, but they feel no moral qualms for the
horrors which they shared in committing, de facto.
And if they feel that it is an advantage to commit
similar horrors in accordance with their own policy,
who among them would lose a night’s sleep about
doing it?
They have developed the atomic weapon on
as grand a scale as they know how. If nobody else
had any atomic weapons they would use them, not
as a last resource as the United States did in 1945,
but on the “or else” principle.
. The U.S.S.R., with its policy of world-revolu-
tion firmly rooted, and as firmly sold to its present
generation of citizens, would long ago have done
to the greater countries of the world what it did
to the Baltic countries and to Poland and.
Rumania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Austria, Czecho-
slovakia and East Germany if it had the
strength to do it. Overwhelming strength for entry
on an immoral excuse, deportations of millions of
“unreliables,” wholesale repression, pillage of
materials, human skill and machinery for the benefit
of Mother Russia would have been the order of
the day. These are the things that Western defence
wards off.
There is no doubt but at the present time we
are at war with the Russo-Chinese bloc. One front
is the “cold-war,” which, in the West, aims to con-
dition the people for Communisation, to sell
them the idea that Russia is a lovely country led
by benign Father Christmases. The Russian leaders
have washed the blood off their hands to go forth
and prove it. A secondary objective linked with
this is to induce those people to whom the proofs
of “friendship” are given by the smile-wreathed
Bulganins and Khrushchevs and Malenkovs, whose
weapon abroad is the chocolate-box (but at home
the executioner’s gun), to relax their defences and
trust to Russian goodwill as their shield.
In both East and West there is a fifth-column.
There is one in Australia which has power pretty
close to that of the Government in industrial
matters, and which is here steadily winning Russia’s
war. The Communist Party Central Committee
has become so influential that it seems to control
“Labor” opinion in the Federal Parliament,
especially on defence, and apparently even in those
unions which formerly were regarded as the
strongest industrial bulwark against Communism—
the A.W.U. in particular, which, in Queensland
and elsewhere, has within the past two or three
years become a spearhead of Leftist policy, averse
to moderation, flouting the arbitration-courts and
laws, and joining in every move for the support of
Dr. Evatt and his Communist-inspired policies and
for the inhibition of the defence plans which the
Commonwealth Government and its allies abroad
think it necessary to maintain.
That Communist unions should strike in a
way to impede the building of St. Mary’s (N.S.W.)
munition-plant would be natural, since it is a sine
qua non with all Communist leaders that anything
which will help the world-revolution and Moscow
must be done. But to find the A.W.U. putting for-
ward a illegal demand for £8 a week “site-
money, accompanied by propaganda about the
necessity to counter the danger 6f radiation carried
on in a vague and insidious way, as has been done
m relation to the Lucas Heights munition-works, is
startling, and illustrates the trend of thinking, so
favorable to the Russian world-objective, which has
become common among members of the “Labor”
hierarchy, industrial and otherwise. The demand
was absolutely groundless, and was abandoned in
court —but it hampered the project.
The trends are developing, unfortunately,
against a general atomic background. There have
been no fewer than six known nuclear-fusion-type
explosions in the Soviet Union territory, apparently
within 12 hours’ flight of the Australian coastline,
withm the past year, but the leader of the Federal
Opposition is protesting, in unison with the Com-
munist party, against the plan of the Western
nations to continue their experiments in the Monte
Bello Islands and at Maralinga and in the Pacific
Ocean this and next year.
Yet those experiments are forced on the makers
of them, and Australia unluckily must naturally
become more and more the centre of them because
its zone and adjacent ocean provide the only suit-
able areas available to the West which do not carry
populations within the danger-range of bomb-
bursts.
Australia is in a peculiarly unhappy position.
Its geographical location makes it one of the most
important bases and assembly-points in the world
for the Western nations—the most important base,
m fact, if war should break out in South Asia. Its
potential is at present so relatively small that it
would be easy to immobilise from within both
by strikes and by clandestine attacks with weapons
introduced by the kind of traitor who moves in and
out of the country with ease. Its outlook on defence
should have been altered by these facts. It needs
an original approach to the whole matter.
It needs, first of all, a public opinion which
understands the position, and which can be obtained
only through the aid of a proper official propaganda
and a press which (to quote the Governor-General)
“spends less time increasing circulation by mere
entertainment of readers and gives more considera-
tion to developing its power to expound policy and
influence the public along sound and decent lines.”
It needs a wider comprehension among unionists
and the public generally of the dangers within and
dangers without and of their real relation to the
continuance of the Australian way of life. It needs,
also, a closer integration of industry in general with
defence. It requires a better appreciation of the needs
of civil defence, and of organisation for emergency
of civil communities. It needs better radar facilities,
and it certainly needs, when the discussion comes
down to terms of actual defence services, more
dynamic and original thinking about their develop-
ment, composition and equipment in especial
relation to Australia’s problems.
A thorough thrashing-out of the situation and
the induction into Ministerial posts of some younger
men with more knowledge of their subjects would
be healthy.
The whole Ministerial set-up is absurdly
diffuse. Australia has more defence Ministers than
any other country of its size in the world—the
United States gets along with one Cabinet member.
Canada has a Minister of National Defence and a
Minister for Defence Production. But Australia
apes the British system sedulously, and even
expands it slightly. Some of its defence Ministers
have nothing to do, and in any case form almost a
private Cabinet in themselves, a position which does
not lend itself to cohesion or swift action.
The heads of defence forces are not them-
selves, one would imagine, happy about the present
set-up or about its results. Though the country has
grown beyond belief within the past half-century, its
defence-thinking is still permeated by the comfort-
able feeling that somebody outside will look after us.
That was a doubtful policy even while we
were out on a limb, the last consideration of any
great Power in a world war, the apple which would
fall naturally into the hand of the winner of any
great conflict. But today it is far different. This
continent is a great world cross-roads and a great
focus of forward-looking atomic-defence experi-
ment, on which the eyes of the world periodically
are fastened, an industrial prize for its metals—and
equally, with an enemy, for the denial of metals as
the resources of conflict.
It could conceivably take the first blow in any
future world war instead of the last. But much of
its basic thinking about defence—even in its
relationships with New Zealand, with which its
protection should be integrated in detail—is
grounded on the outworn conception that it is still a
remote colony of somebody’s. It reorganises and
revises weapons after everybody else has devised a
new type of organisation or firepower or movement
—which sometimes may not suit our conditions.
This country is one of the world’s most tempting
targets for trial shooting, especially in long-ranging
atomic war. But without doubt it is one of the worst
defended.
Glubb Pasha
REMINISCENCES on Sir John Glubb by “Ek
D. (B. 14/3/’56) bring back memories of ’tween-
war years when, for my sins, I had to exist on the
eastern shores, and in the hinterland, of the Gulf
of Aqaba. At that time Glubb Pasha had been
only a very few years in charge of Transjordan’s
camel corps. Already, however, he had forged a
disciplined and efficient military unit out of as
casual and thieving a bunch of scallawags as could
collected in all Araby. He possessed, as “Ek
D.” mentions, a “way” with camels —an attribute
rarely found in Westerners—and the brutes recog-
nised his power just as his legionnaires did.
That Glubb has been “removed” from com-
mand of the’ Arab Legion is not merely gross
ingratitude, but political and economic madness.
His eclipse was foreshadowed when the honor-
able but weakling King Abdullah of Jordan died,
and the passing of that monarch was marked by an
upsurge qf intrigue so intense as to be remarkable
even in the distressful region of Arabia Petrea,
where man, since the dawn of history, has rarely
used words for a purpose other than to hide his
thoughts.
It is notable that “Ek D.” compares Glubb
physically with the late T. E. Lawrence. Lawrence,
theatrically, was more impressive, but his under-
standing of the Arab character, and of the language
of both camel and Arab, was infinitely less. It is
a strange quirk of fate that Lawrence was mainly
responsible for causing Britain to support Abdullah
against Ibn Sa’ud, and, in so doing, started the
decline of British influence in the inhospitable terri-
tory which lies between the Mediterranean and
Arabian Seas. Glubb, from the start, had an
impossible task, and that he survived it for 30
years is a remarkable tribute to a remarkable man.
What a team he and Abdul Aziz ibn Sa’ud
would have made! Although they occupied oppos-
ing camps, each possessed an understanding-
coupled with a degree of respect—of the other
which was so complete that it enabled Glubb to
thwart and subdue Ibn Sa’ud’s designs on Aqaba
and to keep that town, and the very controversial
boundaries of Arabia and Transjordania, inviolate.
When I was there, Aqaba was a “free” town,
largely because Glubb refused to make the border-
line static by putting up Customs barriers. It was
thus a paradise for smugglers of all grades, includ-
ing the aristocracy which dealt in hashish, but the
fear of Glubb kept that homet’s-nest of thieves,
pimps and slave-dealers from congregating in
numbers that might cause trouble.
I had personal experience of this, as I had to
travel under the “protection” of a gang composed
of “blood-brothers” of Ibn Sa’ud, who, within the
boundaries of his kingdom, considered themselves
(and were in fact) above the law. No Emir, even in
districts recognising only a token allegiance to
Abdul Aziz, would punish them in any way. Within
hail of Aqaba, however, my “protectors” refused to
enter the town as a group, as Glubb might have
something to say about it. So they went, singly and
on foot, returning laden with coffee-pots, trays,
inlaid cups and mortars-and-pestles, all of brass,
and with Allah knows what else hidden in the folds
of their garments.
Incidentally, although I was in need of surgical
attention from a desert injury, they cunningly
balked my entry into the town. Later I learnt
that they were in terror that I might complain to
Glubb of their many sins and that they would end
up in an Aqaba dungeon.
Today Aramco (Arabian American Oil Co.)
gold has changed all that, and these blood-brothers,
or their sons, possess what seems to them unlimited
wealth. What is worse, the strong arm of that tough
old warrior Abdul Aziz is not there to hold them in
check, and, in their hearts, they despise his pleasure-
hunting son, although they readily accept his
largesse.
Aramco gold corrupts far beyond the limits
of Sa’udi Arabia. King Sa’ud’s easily-acquired
wealth—his privy purse is rumored to be fed to the
extent of £lOO million a year—is spent not on
urgently-needed public works but on parasitic
“friends” both within and without his kingdom.
Thus the fruits of American effort—which in
Arabia has enjoyed such good luck that it has
produced huge profits, notwithstanding the 50 p.c.
extorted by Sa’ud —have been largely diverted to
bolster causes completely antagonistic to the welfare
of the Western peoples.
In normal oilfields a royalty of the order of
10 p.c. on gross production is considered crippling,
but, in Araby, Nature has been so prodigal not only
in the quantity of oil available but in the ease with
which it can be produced, that the work—for the
time being, at least—prospers astoundingly.
For which grace both Arab and Commo
fervently thank Allah.
Abdul Assiz.


THE VILLAINS OF THE PIECE
“Entertainment-tax and television are slowly strangling British theatres. The crisis is threatening the future of the acting profession.” -London cable.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Hospitals and Finance
The plight of the N. S. Wales hospitals
is typical of that of most States where
Governments regard the matter in two
lights—as an excuse for the squeezing
of more loan-money and taxation out of
the Commonwealth, and as an excuse for
raising more revenue themselves, to spend
on something else.
The director of the Hospital Contribu-
tions Fund of N.S.W. said during the
week that money which should have gone
to the N.S.W. hospitals was going to the
now-nearly-bankrupt State transport
which lost a matter of £lO million last
year. He said that the Cahill Govern-
ment cut its subsidies to hospitals by an
average of 6y per cent., despite rising
costs and increasing demands on hospital
facilities.
Other people connected with the
N.S.W. Hospitals Fund said that there
was not a hospital in the State which was
not drifting into the red and that the
State’s hospitals owed tradespeople alone
£2 million: that the Health Department’s
allotment of Consolidated Revenue had
been steadily reduced on a percentage
basis, and that, under orders from the
State Government, hospital-charges had
been steeply increased. They now form
a burden even for those who contribute
to Hospital Funds. Marginal increases in
pursuance of a definite agreement with
the Hospital Employees’ Union are not,
according to the H.E. Union, being met.
The problem is certainly becoming seri-
ous everywhere in Australia, and it needs
only a severe epidemic to throw the whole
hospital system into a state of financial
collapse.
It is quite wrong that hospital finance
should have to be provided through such
devices as State lotteries and public "col-
lections, and equally wrong that hospital
finance should be regularly a political
plaything as between some unscrupulous
State Premiers and the Commonwealth
Treasury.
In a community so fully employed,
with rising wages and living-standards
and ability to buy beer and bet on horse-
racing and lottery-chances ad lib., the
present should be a period of golden
opportunity to put hospital finance on a
proper basis through insurance and per-
haps some more specific taxation.
In the fight of the liquor-consumption
figures and the huge attention given to
horse- and dog-racing, those non-essential
industries might well bear a good deal of
the burden.
Wedding-presents Plus
Like many other superficially attractive
schemes which have no more solid foun-
dation, than the speculative “Wouldn’t it
be a good thing if marriage-loans
are periodically advocated by professional
politicians and amateur publicists. The
political support usually comes from the
comfortable shade of the Opposition;
the party which would have to find the
money to finance the benevolent project
isn’t so enthusiastic. In recent years
“Labor” M.H.R. Leslie Hayleri has been
a keen marriage-loan advocate. At one
election he even managed to have it semi-
incorporated in his party’s policy, but it
has since disappeared again. Hitler intro-
duced marriage-loans in Germany, but
without any marked success.
The latest to resurrect the subject is
the secretary of the N.S.W. Public Service
Association, who told the annual con-
ference of his organisation last week that
Social Services Minister Roberton had
agreed to discuss suggestions with the
Public Service Federation of Australia
next month.
The usual scheme suggested is that the
Government should make a long-term
loan to every young couple who marry
and that a percentage of the loan should
be cancelled on the birth of each child.
The P.S.A. proposal is that the sum
should be £l5OO, the term 30 years and
£25(f m ° Unt t 0 re^ f° r each child
R. O’Neile, secretary of the P.S.A.,
claims that 80 per cent, of young iwives
are working.
This is a shameful state of affairs, be-
®anse iJ h< T ar ® . forcecl to entertain the
not having a family. Unless
w? * e «f ral G !‘ verni «ent gives marriage-
there will be a tragic downward
trend In our birthrate.
Statistics of the percentage of working-
wives are not easy to come by. O’Neile
says his figure of 80 per cent, is the result
of a “recent survey.” It seems suspici-
ously high, and the term “young wife” is
rather too indefinite for accuracy; but
even assuming the figure is correct, the
assumption drawn from it is far from
sound. What grounds are there for assert-
ing that because these young wives are
working they are forced to think of
remaining childless? And how can it be
claimed that marriage-loans are the only
means of averting a falling birthrate?
Neither the marriage-rate nor the birth-
rate is showing any signs of an alarming
fall. At 8.01 per thousand women of
marriageable age the former is above
the average for the first half of this
century and the same can be said of the
birth-rate—22.s.
Assuming, however, that O’Neile has
some private information on future
trends and is able to persuade the Social
Services Minister to give his scheme
serious consideration, it will then become
necessary to consider costs. With approxi-
mately 72,000 marriages a year the
Federal Government would find itself up
for £lOB million a year for marriage-
loans Repayments would presumably
start right away, but on a 30-year basis
it would be many years before there Was
much coming back to the Treasury to
offset annual outgo for new loans. And
for each baby born the Treasurer would
have to kiss good-bye to £250 of the
principal.
There are over 200,000 babes
bom in Australia every year. To begin
with, not all of these would be eligible
for the £250 bonus, but the proportion
that would qualify would be bigger every
year. The Constitutional and political
difficulty of how to justify the gift of
£250 a time for the children of young-
marrieds and not for the offspring of old-
marrieds doesn’t seem to have occurred
to the advocates of marriage-loans, but
it would certainly crop-up as soon as the
scheme was introduced. For that matter,
the same problem would apply to the
granting of the loans.
Mr. Roberton, being a new Minister
and therefore a polite one, will naturally
listen to what the P.S.A. has to say about
its secretary’s plan. But his Scotch canni-
ness and caution are not likely to be
overwhelmed by the eloquence of the
advocates. Marriage is a fairly old insti-
tution ; despite the pessimists, it is likely
to flourish for a long time yet without a
subsidy.
Full Inquiry Needed
Among the Communist parties of
English-speaking countries, the one
which has been least vocal about the new
Moscow line on Stalin is that of the
United States ; and it has had other things
to occupy it.
The Inland Revenue Department of the
U.S.A. has, in fact, had Communist-party
finances and those of its journals under
survey and some of its offices locked-up
pending an arrangement to pay taxation
which it has obviously been evading. It
has been compelled to put so much force
into its cry of “persecution” against
Uncle Sam that poor Uncle Joe has
largely been forgotten by the party.
The U.S. official action is a reminder
that some similar course might be justi-
fied in Australia—provided the evidence
given before the Petrov commission was
reliable—which, of course, it may not be.
It was reported by the royal commis-
sioners that some of the Communist
witnesses “presented an extraordinary
exhibition of wariness, truculence, evasion
and sometimes of deliberate lying, which
formed a uniform pattern Their
conduct and demeanor were such that
there might have been danger of their
evidence being rejected even though
true. We have assessed their evidence
with full recognition of this danger.”
In another part of their report they
wrote: »
These functionaries asserted, and in-
deed they boasted, that the party had no
bank-account and keeps no written records
—no list of members, no minutes of meet-
ings or resolutions, not even a simple
financial record showing receipts and
expenditure. We do not believe them,
since, without some such records, such an
organisation could not operate. Some of
the reasons for this secrecy are clear
Membership-records, if produced, wohld
enable the testing of the truth or falsity
of the assertion of these functionaries that
the party’s expenditure is met entirely bv
its local contributions.
This position exists in an organisa-
tion in which it was evident to the com-
mission that “all the persons whose acts
were directly or indirectly connected with
espionage were either members of the
Communist party, or ex-members, or pre-
tending , ex-members thereof, or sympa-
thisers with Communism, and some of
them were high-ranking functionaries of
the party.” It was also evident that some
of the travel-expenses of its delegates
were paid by the Soviet Union, and that
it had received $25,000 from the Soviet
Umon, directly through the Embassy.
That such a body is largely in control
of trade-union policy in those unions
which are managed by Communist leaders
was made patent by the evidence before
the N.S.W. Industrial Commission during
Ernest Thornton’s futile attempt to have
himself restored (at the end of last year)
to membership of the Ironworkers’
Federation.
These facts alone would be surely
enough to divest the Communist Party
of Australia of any claim to protection
from official interference on the ground
that it is a political organisation exercis-
ing its normal rights of freedom of
speech and action. This is more
especially so since the party is always
represented at the congresses of the Com-
munist x Party of Soviet Russia —at the
last one by E. F. Hill, who had represented
it and all its members concerned before
the Petrov commission. \
Nor is the Communist party protected
by the fact that it is a traitorous and
subversive organisation, or because it
might, by a stretch of imagination, be
called a “political organisation,” from
the arbitration laws or the obligation to
give its employees a fair deal and observe
awards.
In respect of arbitration it is not a
defence to suggest that the employees are
willing to go without a fair deal. Com-
munist union-leaders take a very strong
stand on that matter. Any individual
employer or employee in Communist-led
industries who transgresses awards in a
way the union believes is detrimental to
the general interest by wage-cutting, hour-
extension, or working free or below the
award-rates or without overtime pay is
likely to be in very hot water. There
are plenty of cases in such bodies as the
Actors’ Equity, apart from the industrial
unions, to provide precedents.
It is impossible to understand, on the
face of the activities carried on by the
Communist party, how it can legally
operate without keeping accounts to meet
the provisions of the income-tax laws,
apart from anything else.
The Communist party seeks to have it
both ways. It uses to the limit the law of
the land to protect its ability to carry on
its often treacherous and subversive
operations, but it also flouts the law to
the limit at every opportunity. In fact,
it claims the right to recognise the law
only when- it is to its own advantage.
Borovansky and Ballet
Though Borovansky himself wrote to
Sydney “Herald,” after he had announced
the disbanding of his company, saying he
intended to resuscitate it in a few years,
the “Herald” apparently found it difficult
to believe this would be possible and has
suggested that a smaller company, cap-
able of performing Australian themes,
should be formed with the backing of the
Elizabethan Trust.
With all due respect to the “Herald,”
a noble institution in many ways and
never so unkind as to think of making
itself into a smaller company, that’s about
the last thing that should be done.
In the first place, the ballet is one de-
partment of the theatre in which it doesn’t
matter very much whether or not Aus-
tralian themes are attempted. If the
music is written, well and good. But it’s
an exotic art and looks best when it is
exotic. It is always a little embarrassing
w(ien, as in Borovansky’s “Ned Kelly,”
our virile race is asked to express itself
by dancing ; and in any case it is only on
the rarest occasions that any newly-
composed ballet can remotely compare
with the great classic spectacles.
More importantly, small ballet-com-
panies, like the Ballet Rambert as it came
to Australia or the Festival Ballet as it
performed in London, are hardly worth
while. They are for connoisseurs and
schoolgirls. What the public wants is,
once again, the great classic spectacles:
in short, more and more lavish
Borovansky.
Finally, and most importantly of all,
Borovansky surely means exactly what
he said: that, as he repeated in reply to
the “Herald,” he will revive himself. He
has done it before.
Surely the best thing to do is to give
the ballet a rest for a few months —there
is a limit to the public demand for it —and
then, with some Elizabethan Trust sup-
port if need be, have Borovansky again.
Struggle on Migration
“In the ACT”: Differences of opinion
in the Government ranks on whether or
not the present migration quotas should
be reduced from 125,000 a year to 90,000
or so are strong and sincere. Each school
of thought has been able to muster up
economists to support its arguments, and
there is a subtle but effective propaganda-
fight being waged on both sides.
One of the latest broadsides stresses
the reduction of the housing-shortage in
Australia in the last few years, and the
value of migrant tradesmen in effecting
this result. It is unfortunate that the
consideration of the problem, with its
crucial economic and security aspects,
should be obscured to some extent by
personalities and by inter-State rivalry.
Chief advocate of a reduction is the
Minister for Primary Production, Mr.
McMahon, who has secured the support
of some of the Sydney newspapers—a
support not calculated to win him many
friends or much support in a large section
of Cabinet. Chief supporter of the present
programme is the comparatively youthful
but experienced Minister for Immi-
gration, Mr. Holt, whose prestige may
have suffered slight eclipse recently, but
who has successfully administered both
this portfolio and the difficult one of
Labor and National Service. In addition
to his cohorts on the Government side,
Mr. Holt is aware that Mr. Calwell has
prevented any Opposition move designed
to weaken the programme, and that his
supporters on the Government back-
benches include some, although not all,
of the more persuasive of the members
there.
The outcome may depend upon whether
the Government’s economic advisers con-
sider that the migration programme is
permanently inflationary, or that its
benefits outweigh its short-term costs,
direct and indirect. The Prime Minister
has already promised a review of the
programme, and he may be ready to indi-
cate his views when he makes his pro-
mised report to Parliament, probably this
month, on the economic state of the
nation.
Will Russians Steal Our
Brains?
“Stromlo” : One of the most signi-
ficant aspects Of current Russian activity,
coinciding with the shift of policy towards
an economic and technological war on a
global scale, is the Russians’ active in-
terest in engineering and scientific work
throughout the world. Trained delega-
tions are going through European and
some American factories, making care-
ful notes of methods and processes, and
occasionally buying sample machines for
a purpose which can be easily guessed.'
This is quite deliberate. The Russians
are openly boasting that as the Ameri-
cans don’t want to put up their own Iron
Curtain, it is not likely that engineering
and scientific visitors will be refused visas
to enter the United States. The result
may be, of course, that the expansion of
Soviet knowledge, already considerable
in the nuclear and guided-missiles field,
and in aviation, may enable Russia to
take a completely dominating position
in the areas into which her influence is
now expanding, including more portions
of eastern Europe, China, Tibet, North
(and South?) Korea and Indo-China.
While this goes on the “new look” in
the Kremlin is facing towards what is
hoped will be Western acceptance of a
status quo in which Russia holds much
of the world in fee or in thrall. Heavy
industry in Russia is expanding rapidly,
and machine-tools, “know-how” and
technicians are all part of the plan. If
they can be obtained easily and at little
cost from the West, so much the better for
the Russihns. If not, then they can be
developed inside Russia or the satellites.
Good orders can be placed with Western
businessmen, and Western industry and
even the farmers of the Middle West can
be persuaded very easily to reveal the
advances they have made painfully and at
vast expense.
The Spots of Comrade Broz
One of the odd features of the week fol-
lowing April 1 which was the concern of
the Australian daily press (the Sydney
press in particular) that Comrade Broz
Tito, of Yugoslavia, should not be
allowed to retrieve a naturalised Aus-
tralian citizen who escaped from Yugo-
slavia in 1948.
Yugoslavia demands his extradition
under a 56-year-old treaty with the king-
dom of Servia. It accuses him of having
stolen the equivalent of £1056 from the
Yugoslav Republic about a decade ago.
The Yugoslav’s story is that before the
war he was a wealthy Belgrade importer
and exporter, that he served under
General Mihailovich, that, like Mihailo-
vich, he was arrested and charged with
being a collaborator with the Germans
by the Tito Government, which was
linked as closely as it could be at that
time (through its Red Army and Moscow-
trained leader) with Stalin ; that he had
later worked with the Communist Admin-
istration, but at the same time had
o Continued, on next page)


organised a guerrilla movement against
them and escaped when his plot was dis-
covered.
He declares that the charge that he
stole from the Government is “sheer fan-
tasy,” and that the Yugoslav Govern-
ment failed, when it tried, to have him
extradited from Greece. He says he is the
victim of a trumped-up charge to get him
back at all costs, as it has a big score to
settle with him and a lot of information
it wants to extract from him.
The matter at the moment of writing is
before a court which is bound to hear
it, and the irony of the situation is that
the daily press, which is so thoroughly
aroused at the suggestion that the man
concerned should fall into the hands of
the brutal Titoists, accepted Tito at
Moscow’s value after the war. It also
accepted his valuation of Mihailovich,
who had always been loyal to the Allies,
and had little to say in protest against his
murder by Tito’s Government —it was
little else.
Whatever the decision of the court, the
last word is with the Commonwealth,
which is not bound to hand over any
Australian subject. And it is scarcely
likely to do so if it has been following
the tortuous reunion between the Soviet
leaders and their old friend Tito which
has taken place recently.
There is even some ground for believ-
ing that the change of line at the Kremlin
regarding Stalin has been devised
especially to beguile and satisfy Tito, who
quarrelled with Stalin and who apparently
is toying with the idea of coming back
into the fold ; he sent a special letter of
“comradely greeting” to the recent
Twentieth Congress of the Communist
Party of the Soviet Union, which, when
read, gave rise to a demonstration in
which the whole congress rose to its
feet and indulged in “loud, prolonged
applause.” His message beginning
“Comrades” added color to the
surmises about his possible reunion with
the Red bloc.
Also, the charge against a wanted
opponent that he stole money from the
Government is a familiar gambit. It was
used against Petrov, and has been used
a hundred times before by the Kremlin.
POLITICAL POINTS
Proposed plaque for a Perth hotel bath-
room: “Menzies slipped here.”
• •
Some of N.S.W. “Labor’s” prominent
“Who’s Who” men are to be told what’s
what. Unless, of course, they do the
telling first.
• •
The Reps, will meet this week and next,
but not in Anzac Day week. The Senate
is dormant until the beginning of May,
leaving itself with two months in which
the Government will still have a majority.
• •
Although Premier Hawke and his col-
leagues are no doubt congratulating
themselves on their win at Saturday’s
election in Westralia, they are probably
quite aware that their victory was due
neither to their past record nor their
present promises. What the electors
really thought of the “Labor” Govern-
ment was shown at by-elections last year.'
Saturday’s result was not a vote for
Hawke; it was, most illogically, a vote
against Menzies.
Hawke and Co. capitalised the grouches
caused by the higher Federal taxes, and
their publicity linked it with the State
Liberals by dubbing Menzies and
McLarty “the Tax-us Rangers.” Signifi-
cantly, the Country party held all its
seats ; “Labor’s” win was at the expense
of the Libs.
In the old Parliament “Labor” held
25 seats; Liberals, 16; Country party, 9.
The new one will comprise “Labor,” 27
or 28; Liberals, 12 or 13; Country
party, 9.
Confirmed in office for another three
years, Hawke will now have a free hand
to prepare his demands for a share in the
new taxes whose unpopularity won him
the election.
• e
Morgan, “Labor” M.H.R. for Reid,
discussing international affairs:
Our motto should be like that of the
American general, “Trust in the Lord and
keep our powder dry.”
Or as Oliver Cromwell said, “Praise God
and pass me my little hatchet.”
• •
Isfone of the States is showing any great
enthusiasm over the Prime Minister’s in-
vitation for them to act in curbing hire-
purchase, although there are hints that
the “no deposit and a few bob a week”
gentry may soon be induced to be more
realistic, in their own interests as well as
the nation’s. Perhaps Menzies will men-
tion the subject when he gives his review
on the economic state of* the nation.
• •
Legislation coming up, after the slow
start to the session in Canberra, includes
a Broadcasting and TV bill, amendments
to the Stevedoring Industry and the Arbi-
tration Acts, and a measure to set up the
export-guarantee organisation. Also
promised is the long-sought amendment of
the Banking Act, to separate the func-
tions of the Central Bank and the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank. There may
be a bill to permit sale of the Common-
wealth Shipping Line to a part-Govern-
ment, part-private enterprise—and there
may be a bill to increase Parliamentary
salaries. On all except the latter the
Opposition will probably offer objections
and obstructions, and the prospects of
having them all passed between the be-
ginning of May and the end of June
(when the Government loses control of
the Senate) don’t seem bright. Possibly
some of the measures may be introduced
first in the Senate, so that the Reps, can
later deal with them at leisure.
• •
Although Petrov is not going to
America to give testimony concerning the
Moscow activities of Maclean and Bur-
gess, it is possible that members of the
U.S. Senate internal-security committee
may come to Australia to see him.
• •
Victoria is to ease restrictions on foreign
doctors. Health Minister Cameron says
that in doing so the Government will see
that the present high standards are not
lowered. Several dozen unregistered
aliens will be affected.
• •
Since the Menzies economic statement
suggestions have come from several
quarters that the migration target should
be reduced, the argument being that the
size of the immigration-programme is a
contributory factor to inflation. On
Friday the Immigration Advisory Council,
claiming that the programme had no
direct bearing on the problems of infla-
tion, urged the Government not to reduce
the target, but to stabilise it at the present
rate (125,000 a year) for at least three
years.
The council is probably wrong on the
question of inflation, but it is right in
urging that a reduction should be resisted
When the post-war immigration-pro-
gramme was begun it was realised that the
arrival of migrants on an unprecedented
scale ‘would create big problems, but that
these would have to be faced if we wished
to gain new citizens in numbers sufficient
to secure the safety of the country. That
should still be our policy. Cutting the in-
take is not facing the problem; it is
merely dodging it.
IN THE MARKET-PLACE
(After 125 years)
Forecasts that higher prices for beer
would mean a falling-off in bar-trade
don’t seem to have come true. Sydney
pubs have as many patrons as ever.
• •
After standing on the brink of the
election-pool for months Queensland
Premier Gair has decided to take the
plunge. Polling-day will be May 19, only
a fortnight, short of the latest possible
date. Nominations will close on April
27, and Gair’s policy-speech will most
likely be delivered on April 30. Opposi-
tion parties will launch their campaigns
earlier —Countrv-party leader Nicklin on
April 20 and Liberal-leader Morris three
nights later.
• •
“Labor,” in office for 23 years, holds
49 seats in the Queensland Assembly ;
there are 15 Country-party members, 8
Liberals and 3 Independents, including
former Lord Mayor Roberts, who was
elected as “Labor” M.L.A. for Nundah,
but resigned and will this time oppose
Gair for the South Brisbane seat.
• •
Queenslanders should be cheered by
the news that British researchers are find-
ing new uses for sugar. Plastic-manufac-
turers have been enterprising and success-
ful, and sugar is also a raw material in
the making of detergents and toothpastes.
One manufacturer predicts that within a
few years it will be difficult to satisfy
world demand for sugar.
• •
With his facility for putting big ideas
into brief form, the Governor-General
made some striking remarks at the presen-
tation of the credentials of new U.S.
Ambassador Douglas M. Moffat. Sir
William Slim, referring to the close ties
between Australia and the U.S., said that
We seek common ends, and to achieve
them we act increasingly in common. It
does not occur to either of us to doubt
we have the full confidence of the other.
This is a basic fact with implications tar
beyond the more easily identifiable instances
of our close association —such as our
military co-operation in the two world
wars and in Korea, and our union and co-
operation in such undertakings as the Anzus
Pact, the Manila Treaty and the Colombo
Plan.
• •
“In the ACT”: If the Federal Public
Service Board values the efficiency and
integrity of the service it will put a
prompt stop to the habit of many officials
in Canberra and elsewhere beginning their
weekends soon after midday on Fridays.
• •
An unusual feature of the Camberwell
by-election in Victoria will be the appear-
ance of Premier Bolte and Opposition-
leader Cain on the same platform. After
Cain had criticised the Government’s
proposed liquor-reforms, he said the plan
should be explained during the campaign
to give electors a chance of showing what
they thought of it. Bolte replied that he d
be happy to do that, and would also like
to debate the proposals with Cain on a
public platform. Challenge accepted.
• •
Communist parties of the world have
changed the spelling of Khrushchev s
name. It is now Khrushchov in all their
official publications. Possibly somebody
noticed the resemblance of the original
rendering to the word Khrusheva, which
means “lace”—-a perforated material.
Anybody in the Kremlin who thinks of
perforation shudders.
• •
The overwhelming and unexpected vic-
tory of the Popular United Front Party,
which almost wiped out the Government
party at the Ceylon elections, is one of
the most disastrous political happenings
for Australian defence in a decade. The
leader, Solomon Bandaranaike, says that
he’s not anti-West but a neutralist, and
that his plan is to make Ceylon an inde-
pendent republic, an Asian Switzerland.
The name of his party, straight out of
Moscow, shows what sort of a Switzerland
it is likely to be, unless it belies itself.
The Colombo Plan doesn’t seem to have
cut much ice in Colombo.
• •
Australian Communist-party book-
shops are loaded-down with tons of
Moscow-printed literature which exclu-
sively follow the old Moscow line, prais-
ing the late-lamented idol (Stalin) to the
skies, and contradicting almost every-
thing “Khrushchov” says. But this is only
a minor embarrassment beside that of
certain “deviationists” in Moscow who
believed that the change of fine gave them
the green-light to criticise the present
regime. Even Beria could not have acted
more swiftly and savagely than Bulganin
and Co. to that delusion.
e »
Bathrooms are becoming a major
hazard for Federal Ministers. Last year
Treasurer Fadden suffered a fall in his
hotel bathroom in Sydney and was laid-up
for several days. Now Menzies has had
a similar mishap in Perth. Perhaps that’s
one of the penalties for trying to keep
politics clean.
• •
Rumored that as part of a plan to
avoid a “Labor” split in N.S.W. Cahill is
to be asked to find cushy jobs for
Groupers J. Kane and F. Rooney. This,
of course, has nothing to do with the Joe-
for-Governor campaign.
• •
“Stromlo”: Federal M.P.s may be
worth the extra pay they are apparently
going to get shortly, and they undoubtedly
feel that any public resentment would be
shQrt-lived and would certainly expire
before the next election. Members
probably feel they have a good case while
the public service is permitted to continue
its expensive expansion unchecked. But
will the review of P.S. costs, which the
Prime Minister has promised, be extended
to include a survey of the costs of
Parliament?
• •
The royal commission inquiring into
allegations of corruption in Queensland
land-leases made by Senator Wood
adjourned on Friday after F. M. Bell, a
Boonah grazier, had alleged that Lands
Minister Foley had, on December 14,
1949, offered him a stud-lease if he
agreed to pay £lOOO into “Labor -party
funds. Earlier, Mr. Justice Townley, the
royal commissioner, had stood the Minis-
ter down from giving further evidence
because it seemed obvious to him that
Bell “would give evidence of what
appeared to amount to a criminal
offence,” in which case further cross-
examination of the Minister might pre-
judice any trial that might result from
the allegations. On Friday Premier Gair
announced that Lands Minister Foley
had, at his own request, been relieved of
his Ministerial duties.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
AT the beginning of this century we
lived in the Charleville (Q.) district.
At our prayers each night we said, “God
bless Queen Victoria, Daddy and
Mummy, brothers and sisters, uncles and
aunts, especially Auntie Cis” (don’t ask
me why, because I don’t know) “and
send us plenty of rain.” Well, we have
now had plenty of rain, and Auntie Cis
has just won a major prize in the lottery.
—“Scratch.”
❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: Of all the jobs in Sydney
commend me to that of the rustic-looking
bloke in the big straw-hat who has been
sitting on a seat at Wollstonecraft station,
on the North Shore line, for, I think, the
last six weeks. He holds a yellow flag
and a red flag, and sometimes, for no per-
ceptible reason, he gently wags the red
flag, sometimes he wags the yellow; and
all the time, so far as the passing pas-
senger is aware, he just sits and sits and
sits.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Macca”: Brisbane children in homes
and orphanages hoed into as succulent a
batch of fruit as they are likely to get;
hospitals were aflower with the choicest
blooms ; and ageds and pensioners supped
on pate de foie gras , pheasants under
glass and other suchlike plebeian tucker.
Not Uncle Bob in a moment of Treasury
aberration but the Mountbattens, whose
Brisbane reception-preparations, can-
celled through engine-trouble, found their
way into other very appreciative hands
and mouths.
“Kaysey”: Adelaide “Advertiser”
reported a vintage-car rally:
The president of the Vintage Sports Car
Club took me the 21 miles from Lyndoch
to Seppeltsfield in his 924 Vauxhall 30/98
in ll| minutes.
It would be, of course, proper in that
district for vintage cars to run on vintage
brandy, especially in an a.d. 924 vehicle.
❖ *> ❖
“Maitri”: I received the compliment
of my life the other night when, at the
close of a lecture I’d perpetrated, an
elderly couple in the audience came for-
ward to have a few words with me. “We
heard your father speak on the same
subject thirty years ago,” said the male
member of the duo. No wonder my ego
expanded: it wasn’t my sire they’d
listened to in that dim yesterday, but me.
❖ ❖ *
“Taka”: For years past the N.Z. Dairy
Marketing Board has had the monopoly
of wholesaling butter to N.Z. retail-shops.
Auckland housewives are allowed the
choice of two name-brands only:
“Crown” and “Anchor.” Which may
seem like a gamble, but most consumers
are convinced that “Crown” and
“Anchor” are as alike as two pins.
❖ ❖ ***
“Sluefoot”: On Holy Thursday even-
ing I was down at our Brisbane suburban
post-office trying to coax a few
thrippennies out of the stamp-machine.
I’d done a deener on this one-armed
bandit when I decided to quit. On Good
Friday I was back there again trying to
post the same letter. I put in three
pennies: nothing happened. I gave the
machine a decent whack with my fist
and out shot a couple of coppers from
its innards. Spurred-on by this bonanza,
I gave the contraption another good
“I see there's a thawing in the cold-War.”
thump. This time it regurgitated three
more of my brownies. Four thumps (and
one sore fist) later I set off home, clutch-
ing my still-unposted letter in one hand
and 10 pennies in the other. Admittedly,
I was shy of another fivepence, but
nevertheless I felt —well, you know how
it feels to retrieve something from the
Government.
♦> ❖
“Spokeshave”: The 10-o’clockers in
the Victorian liquor referendum did do
some organising. I looked up from the
boat whose bottom I was scraping at
Williamstown and observed a white cloud
resembling an acute angle in the heavens,
and while I was speculating as to the
atmospheric causes of this phenomenon
an “O’* developed. A “T” and an “E”
followed, and I waited breathlessly for
the next word. Out - it came —“TEN”—
and I let out a weak cheer. A few seconds
later, however, all the letters had vanished
into thin air except “N” and “O.” A
tiny black speck, the skywriter was speed-
ing homewards, his great deed done,
above the square miles of indifferent
shipping. I hope he touched-down before
S-I-X.
+!♦ +*♦
“Cam”: The day I came across a sweet-
faced little 14-year-old calling her collec-
tion of tall stories “Beware 6f the Bull”
my pre-war sense of the proprieties was
shocked, but I put it down to youthful
ignorance. However, the recent news-
paper headline “ ‘Cut the Bull’ Campaign
in British Army” has made me realise
that another outcast has been officially
admitted to respectability. The post-war
generation assure me that they see noth-
ing improper in the use of “bull” as a
synonym for “rubbish” or “nonsense,”
but I can’t forget the days when we used
the whole word.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Lorna Doone”: Overheard, but not
seen, in the corridor of a busy com-
mercial house: The tip-tapping of
feminine shoes, followed by the decisive
and sure steps of the male. Said he,
“Now then, Mary, pull those shoulders
back and stand up. You look as though
you have the weight of the world on
you.” She replied, “I have. I gotta
husband.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pevin”: So an Australian tobacco-
company is making waterproof cigarettes
for comfortable smoking in the rain! I’m
waiting for the day they make ’em fire-
proof as well; then I’ll break my three-
day record for giving up smoking.
“Tidak Makan”: Reliability-trials and
rallies of vintage cars are a growing form
of regression. Motor-engineers have
labored for years to make motoring more
comfortable and safer, but in the United
States it appears that automatic gear-
changing, or no gears at all, tend to take
the zest out of driving. Advertisements
for secondhand cars urge the buyer to
“recapture the thrill of changing gears.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: I know a barber who gave
away shaving because his shop is not far
from a large cement-works. He assures
me that shaving a man with two days’
growth who had been working amidst
fine particles of cement was a nerve-
racking and somewhat bloody job. Wire-
whiskers are bad enough, but the con-
crete variety is apparently a shade worse.
The inclusion of some clause in the
barbers’ award covering dirt-, danger-
and blood-money seems called for.
❖
“Pip Tok”: Whatever Australian
universities may be doing to encourage
the study of contemporary Australian
writers, Australian State schools gave
many an Australian youngster his intro-
duction to Australian literature. The old
brown school-readers adopted by the
N. S. Wales Education Department at
the beginning of the century contained
liberal helpings of Daley, Lawson, Pater-
son, Kendall and others, as well as
extracts from the work of English and
American writers, from Shakspeare to
Kipling, and from Washington Irving to
Walt Whitman (there was one of Walt’s
milder poems in the fifth-reader). Some
Sydney schoolboys could see Australian
writers in the flesh. Victor Daley lived
in Manly, and one of his sons went to my
school, the old Manly Public School.
Entering his name and particulars in the
school admission-register, the head-
teacher, a Sydney graduate with a “first”
in English, asked young Daley his
father’s occupation. The boy said
“Writer,” and the teacher promptly wrote
“Sign Writer” in the appropriate column.
Other writers we met were Henry Lawson
and Rod Quinn, who often came to spend
a weekend with Daley. It was to Victor
Daley that I owed my introduction to the
old Bulletin building in George-street.
I scraped-up an acquaintance with him
during a ferry-trip to Sydney, and tagged
along with him ; Victor took me inside
and introduced me to Mr. Alex Mont-
gomery, and my first par. struck print a
few weeks later.
“Stromlo”: The Jerusalem Chamber
in Westminster Abbey, with its lead roof
relaid, ceiling repainted and tapestries
cleaned, now looks as it must have looked
when first painted at the end of the 14th
century. It’s hoped that cleaning of the
stone- and marble-work inside the abbey
will be finished by 1965, in time for the
900th anniversary of the founding of the
original abbey, but work on the exterior,
including restoration of the high-pitched
roof over the nave, will take many more
years to complete.
* * 9
“J.K.D.”: A prisoner in the. Brisbane
Criminal Court, instead of asking the
judge to “think of the wife and kids,”
told him he had £5OO-worth of time-
payment furniture and if he were sent to
jail the hire-purchase company would
repossess it. The judge gave him four-
years’ jail, which truly meant no time
to pay.
*
“Runya”: There’s gold all right on
Queensland’s Gold Coast: there may be
some of the same stuff lying off it. In
1894 the ship Scottish Prince was wrecked
off the Southport coast; she loaded some
800 tons of whisky. Skin-divers of the
Underwater Research Group have plotted
the position of the grog-ship, and this
month they’ll have a shot at separating
whisky from water. To mature properly,
whisky needs the touch of air through
porous wooden casks, but even if the
60-year-old cargo is surfaced, and it has
any commercial value, the long-remem-
bering arm of the Customs Department
will impound and sell it to recover duty
payable. But, the department says mag-
nanimously, it will allow the divers to
claim compensation for salvage.
NOTES LOST AND FOUND
“Paul Badura-Skoda says he found more than
100 errors of tiransgription in modern versions of
Mozart’s piano-concerto in F; and Moiseiwitsch
is the third pianist to lose a note in Sydney
in a programme including the Schumann
Symphonic Studies.’’
Music-fans should get a loada
Mr. Paul Badura-Skoda —
Having reason to refer to
Mozart’s score of a concerto
He found copyists had blundered,
Writing wrong notes by the hunderd.
Many who are heard confessing
That they found the work distressing —
Just a hint of something wrong
With the clear Mozartian song
Obvious to those not deaf
In that charming thing in F;
Just a feeling of dissension
That they hadn’t cared to mention —
Now that he has rectified it
Are more able to abide it...
Let us hope this sleuth persists,
A iding fellow-pianists :
Lovely Miss Zalan, upon
The verge of tears at Sydney Con.;
Katchen stirred to angry speech ;
Silent, shocked Moiseiwitsch —
What has made these players buddies?
Schumann’s big “Symphonic Studies” —
All who try to play the thing
Lose a note, or break a string !
Is there something anti-human
In this arduous work: by Schumann?
Does it feel it’s too ironic
Letting pianos be symphonic?
Why are pianos, then, denoted?
Let your labors be devoted
To this problem, Mr. Paul
Badura-Skoda! say we all.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


npHE housewife, perceiving a friend at
the railway-station, hailed her, and
they plunged into a graphic discussion of
each other’s husband, children and ail-
“ You've GOT to go on with it , Shirl. Wove bought the cake!"
ments. Nothing to write to The
Bulletin about? Well, only that they
were on different platforms, separated by
a double-line and passing parcel-expresses
and inspection-cars.—“Narumee.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“W.”: Melbourne University was quiet
for the opening of the Wilson Hall. The
only students who tried to liven the show
up were the engineers, who provided a
guard-of-honor dressed in bathing-togs
and carrying T-squares. This guard
received more attention from Sir Dallas
Brooks than the bona-fide troops from
the M.U.R. Another engineer dressed in
a sheepskin-mat presented Lady Brooks
with a rather withered bunch of flowers
in complete disregard of the robed per-
sonages, who were temporarily put in the
shade. This presentation was followed
by an apelike and very loud roar of
triumph. Other schemes had less success.
Components of a small brass-band
secreted in the organ-loft were forcibly
removed some time before the ceremony
began, and a trouserless pseudo-Governor
in a Humber was stopped at the entrance.
♦> ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Familiarity doubtless
breeds the contempt of some motor-
mechanics for petrol (B. 28/ 3 / ’56), but
I know of a garage where lighted cigar-
ette-butts are religiously dumped in a
cut-down petrol-tin containing petrol
and/or oil as a safety-measure.
♦♦♦ ♦> *l*
“Pevin”: The boss is one of those who
believe that to cover any distance with the
telephone it is necessary to shout into it.
He used this system even on the inter-
office network. Harry was taking the
morning instructions, leaning back and
watching the receiver as it leaped and
barked on his blotter, when the typist
came in. “Why don’t you hang up?” she
whispered. “You’ll hear him a lot better”
—she fiddled with the catch —“if you
open the window.”
4+4 4+4 4*4
“Curie”: To stop speeding on our Fiji-
village street, where there are many little
children and no fences, the road-mainten-
ance people dug very shallow drains at
intervals across the street. Careful drivers
crawled along the street, while confirmed
speed-hogs crashed along at their normal
speed. To stop this, the drains were
gradually deepened and widened, until
one small car, going over a freshly-
deepened drain, went down so far as to
get its bumper-bar caught and had to be
lifted out. So the authorities refilled the
drains, wondering what was the use, any-
way.
4*4 4+4 4*4
“Zorok”: An 18-year-old Sydney
youth jailed for a crime with violence
and who had told police he aspired to be
a “king gun-criminal” was named
Lawless.
4+4 4+4 4+4
“Jemac”: The TUIO4 jet airliner in
which Soviet Secret Police Chief General
Serov touched-down in London was
hailed as leaving British aircraft some-
where in the Bleriot-class. Now that
British aircraft-experts have had a look
at it, it’s found that the machine is not
even pressurised; its newspaper-calcu-
lated engine-thrust of 18,0001 b. has come
down to a possible 12,0001 b. (under the
output of De Havilland and Rolls-Royce
power-plants); and the head of Bristol
Aircraft opines that “the machine would
hardly pass muster in British shipyards
for its riveting.” Without underestimating
the enemy, surely one can treat with the
same dubiety Russian claims to 300 (or
is it 400?) submarines. Russia has had
no combat-experience whatsoever with
subs.—and that submersible branch, of
all the fighting Services, is one in which
“But, Dad, this is my coming-out frock!”
experience of war-conditions is essential
if the submersible is not to remain
submerged.
,** * *
“C. 8,”: The New York magistrate who
lately dismissed a charge against a night-
club that it displayed obscene pictures
couldn’t have known the whole story.
The pictures turned out to be copies of
2000-year-old art-works now in the Royal
Academy in Naples, and the argument
was that if art is art in one place it must
be art in any other. The works of art-
found in excavating the ruins of Pompeii
and Herculaneum —are certainly in the
Naples museum, but before I could see
them I had to slip a few lire to a custodian.
* & ♦>
“Willpar”: Years of experience entic-
ing sceptics into sideshows have taught
the spruikers tricks which should be
recorded for the benefit of all serious
students of sales-psychology. The cove
who extracted two-bob out of me at the
Sydney Show deserves an honorary
Ph.D. His was a corner-tent, and I
approached it from the rear. Just as the
eye is attracted to a diamond displayed
on black velvet, so mine, and many
others, were attracted by a couple of
curvaceous and creamy-textured objects
wearing high-heels and caught in strong
sunlight. They were framed by a heavy-
toned tent-flap caught-up just high enough
to reveal them and not what they were
supporting within. Here, surely, was a
show worth seeing. Another sucker
entered the tent of mystery. And mys-
tery it was —not a woman in the act!
When the act was over she appeared —
and took up her position again in the
far corner, once more to sun her legs.
♦> »> ❖
“Doynest”: The short-change racket
(B. 14/3/’56) is not confined to Bris-
bane ; I have struck it lately in the re-
putedly-upright metropolis of Melbourne.
Short of calling a policeman —which
focuses notoriety upon the customer —•
there doesn’t seem to be any way of com-
bating such petty fraud. Noting and
memorising the numbers of notes held,
as “Rimutuka” did, would be beyond the
average citizen, who can’t even remem-
ber, if called on for information, the
color of his wife’s frock. In practice
it boils down to: “I gave you a quid” ;
“No, sir, you gave me ten-bob” ; and the
first to lose countenance loses the cash.
The only remedy I can suggest is to copy
the shop-assistant’s practice of audibly
counting the change when handing-over
the dough ; at any rate, it would ensure
that there could be no subsequent argu-
ment as to how much was offered in
payment.
HORIZONTAL HUMOR
“Dreams can be fun.” — Women’s magazine.
You are pedalling along
Through a big lunch-hour throng
In the main thoroughfare on your
bicycle;
It’s a midwinter day,
And the handle-bars sway
As you shiver — you’re cold as an icicle.
The point-duty cop
Holds his hand up to stop;
You’ve a bell, but, somehow, you can t
jingle it.
The grid hits his Nibs,
And you fall on your ribs —
And all that you’re wearing’s a singlet!
An outsize in wads
You have bet at long odds.
The moke’s got a beak like a cocky ;
He’s wearing ice-skates,
And he does figure-eights,
With ex-King Farouk as his jockey.
Approaching the post
He’s in front. But a ghost
Makes him prop. He and Farouk are
parted.
He bolts then, that bay —
Goes the opposite way,
And finishes-up where he started.
You’re fleeing from thugs
Who are firing slugs;
You must escape, else you’re a
dead-’un !
You are gasping for air,
For the boots that you wear
Are like a sea-diver’s, all leaden.
They’re near you! A blast,
And your own head flies past!
That instant, of course, you’ll be
waking.
You’ll most certainly get
In a horrible sweat,
And your chassis with shock will be
shaking.
You are out in a boat,
And you’re fishing. Your float
Dives under. You reel in, excited.
An outsize one, this.
But your catch gives a hiss
As you gaff him. Your hopes then are
blighted.
It’s your boss took your hook !
And does he go crook!
You’re no longer, he snarls, in
employment ... #
Oh, you simply must dream,
If you’d skim the cream
Off your nocturnal slumber-enjoyment!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
CALLING ALL CROWS
WHOEVER invented straight lines, it
must be admitted they have
developed considerably since then ; it is
as Elgar said of music: There are straight
lines in the air—you just take as many of
them as you want. But to come down to
practice, to go back to the old drawing-
board, and say, “Give me an actual
straight line”—that is another matter.
As the sole practising wardrobe-builder
on the staff, it occurred to me that a solid-
cedar wardrobe, Bft. high, demanded
something more than the squinted-eye, or
the holding of a piece of wood against
a wall or a door-frame, that might ease
the conscience of a chest-of-drawers-
renovator or -constructor. Suppose the
wood doesn’t fit the wall or door-frame
—how do you know it isn’t the wall or
door-frame that is out-of-true? Suppose
it does —how do you know that both
wood and wall or wood and door-frame
are »ot in collusion to give false evi-
dence?
§o I went to a hardware-shop to buy a
straight line.
“Ah,” said the assistant, “they’re dear.”
“What about those things?” I said,
pointing to a stack of wooden yardsticks
and 4ft. glaziers’ rules.
He shuddered, as though at the
blasphemy of the ignorant.
“You couldn’t trust them. Oh, no,
they’re not straight lines.”
“Look,” I confided, “I’m making an
eight-foot cedar wardrobe” —it is a con-
fidence I am prepared to repose in any-
one ; one might almost think I was trying
to impress people with it —“what kind of
straight lines do they use in the furniture-
factories?”
“They never use straight lines,” said
the assistant. “They might use a length
of timber, but it would only last a short
while. They get worn and warped. But
straight lines —some of the big factories
might have an eight-foot straight line, but
a thing like that’d cost ...”
He mused upon some monstrous,
unnamed figure, and then said, a verger
offering to show the holy relic: “Would
you like to see a three-foot straight line?”
I said I would.
He went away and came back with a
yard of thin cardboard package, from
which he cautiously slid a lath of steel.
We both meditated upon it for a while
in silence.
“ That’s a straight line,” he said.
“Fifty-nine-and-six.”
“Well,” I said, “it does look pretty
straight, but it’s only three-feet; it’s not
much use . . .”
“No,” he said.
“And I suppose the prices go up by
compound interest.”
“Yes,” he said.
“So I better practise squinting,” I said.
“Well,” he said, sliding the steel back
into its package, “I could sell you a four-
foot spirit-level for twenty-four-and-six
—that’s fairly straight.”
But by this time 1 was an all-or-nothing
wardrobe-constructor, and had decided on
nothing. Since then friends have urged
upon me all kinds of ingenious devices,
«uch as chalking or wetting a string and
snapping it down along the proposed
straight edge—but the damage is done.
“Try hanging a plumb-bob down it,”
they say maliciously. “You could at
least see if you’re out or not.”
But this I am resolved not to do.
“After all,” I say to my wife, “if it’s a
bit out, that only proves it’s a hand-made
wardrobe, with the marks of the Master
upon it.”
Anyway, it’s £3 for a straight line a
yard long; maybe that’s a sign of infla-
tion, or maybe it shows thai democracy
has a long way to go, but it certainly
proves that the straight line isn’t the
cheapest distance between two points.
SWILLIAM.


PERSONAL ITEM
General Cariappa, retiring Indian High
Commissioner, one of the most energetic
and sociable diplomats seen in these
parts, sailed for home last week.
• •
Second graduate of Queensland Uni-
versity to be knighted (first was Sir
Samuel Barraclough, later Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, Sydney Uni.),
Sir Ragnar Hyne dropped in on Brisbane
on his way to Adelaide and London. Of
Norwegian stock, Sir Ragnar began a
geographically and academically wide
career when, in 1912, he became one of
the first arts-graduates of Queensland
University. After serving in War I, he
was appointed Education Director of
Tonga ; a few years later was admitted to
the Queensland Bar, and within five years
was Chief Magistrate of the Solomons.
By the time he left for War II (major,
British Army) he was Chief Justice of
Tonga. Immediately after that war he
enlarged his circuit, being appointed
Attorney-General of Sierra Leone,
ending-up, in 1948, as Commander-in-
Chief of the colony. Present title, Chief
Justice of Fiji.
• •
Sir Allen Stanley Brown, head of the
Prime Minister’s Department and sec-
retary to Cabinet, went to the same
school and university as Menzies and
followed the same profession, but never
met him until 1949, when the Libs, came
into office. Dux of Wesley, he went per
scholarship to Melbourne University, took
M.A. and LL.M. Then a period as law-
tutor at Queen’s College and Ormond
College, and lecturer at the law-school,
followed by private practice as a solicitor
SIR ALLEN BROWN
in Melbourne, Cobden and Colac. Joined
the Commonwealth public service during
War 11, in the Rationing Commission ;
later transferred to the Department of
Post-war Reconstruction, of which he
became Director-General. Chifley gave
him his present appointment in 1949.
Created Knight Bachelor in this year’s
New Year honors.
0 0
Met at Perth airport, K. R. Ryder,
English engineer in the service of Pirelli
General Cableworks, which has the
£200,000 electrical-cable contract for
Bunbury power-station. As resident site-
engineer, Ryder will stay in Bunbury till
the first section of the station is opened
about two years hence. He recently com-
pleted a similar job at the big Uskmouth
power-station in South Wales.
0 0
“L.F.K.”: Re the late Sir Colin Sin-
clair (“R.A.S. Personalities,” B. 28/3/’56)
—may I correct a mistake? He was edu-
cated at the New England Grammar
School, Armidale (of which my father,'
the late Arthur Kemmis, 8.A., was prin-
cipal), and not at the Armidale School.
0 0
“Allan B.”: Bob Whately—whose
passing was recorded in B. 28/3/’56 —•
was known to many of us more as an
understanding and sympathetic educa-
tionist than as a member of Parliament.
As well as being for 10 years member for
Camberwell, a Victorian Cabinet Minister
and secretary of the L.C.P., he was a
pioneer psychologist in vocational guid-
ance. Thousands of Victorian men and
women today have him to thank for
success in the particular line they adopted
as their job.
Benno Moiseiwitsch, now making his
seventh tour of Australia —easily a record
for any visiting virtuoso—was born in
Odessa, in whose Imperial Music
Academy he began his career as a pianist
by winning the Rubenstein Prize when he
was nine. Thence to Vienna, where study
BENNO MOISEIWITSCH
under Leshetizsky developed the qualities
which were to project him, while still
young, into the top-flight of keyboard-
artists. That place he has retained .by
natural genius, plus sustained work-
even now, in his mid-sixties, he practises
up to six hours a day, and has been known
to run over his six-octave silent keyboard
during intervals at a concert. Card-
playing is an abiding passion with him,
which probably explains why, after an
F sharp failed to respond when he belted
it during a performance of Schumann’s
“Symphonic Studies” at his second
Sydney recital, he merely gazed im-
passively at the offending Steinway be-
fore departing the platform for technical
help. For. physical relaxation he pushes
an occasional ball around a golf-course.
Here under the Kerridge house-flag, he
moves on to New Zealand after finishing
his Australian tour.
• •
Old Digger of France and Belgium,
C. G. Marjason is closing a long account
with the ’Wales, opened in 1910. Posted
to Queensland two years later, he did his
bit in khaki, and on return served in all
Australian States, as well as in New
Zealand. He retires as chief executive
officer of the bank .in Queensland.
• •
By all accounts Gundagai (N.S.W.)
will be invaded by all sorts of celebrities
—city-paper • columnists, movie-men,
famous sons —when the Back to Gunda-
gai week kicks-off on April 19 with the
opening of the new war-memorial by
the State Governor. The memorial faces
Carberry Park, recently renamed to
honor Herbert Peter Carberry, who for
36 of his 84 years has served on the local
shire-council, for 28 years as president.
In person and character “H.P.” represents
what may be called the solid core of the
festivities—fun-of-the-fair, speeches, and
other necessary trimmings aside. He’s
representative, too, of a class of men who,
although they exercise considerable
influence in their districts—doing, for
nothing, an amount of work which
would make the average politician wince
—are seldom heard of in the capital
cities. H.P. was born at Appin (N.S.W.)
when his parents came here from County
Limerick, Ireland. He went to Gobarra-
long, in the Gundagai district, as a child,
and settled on a property at Parson’s
Creek (still in the family) as a young
man ; later, by hard work and shrewd
judgment, he acquired other properties in
the district. Found time on the way for
larger affairs.
• •
Flying the city’s coat-of-arms, the third
Port, Melbourne entered Port Melbourne
the other day, commander Captain P. H.
Pedrick, who seems to have a habit of
serving on ships named after Australian
cities. His'first visit here was in the Port
Sydney, in 1917, and he was in these
waters in the second Port Melbourne in
1927. The first Port Melbourne was
launched in 1892, and six years later van-
ished on the high seas as mysteriously as
the Waratah. The second Port Melbourne
came off the slips in 1914 and cost
£175,000. She served through both world
wars without a scratch, and was broken-
up in 1948. Her successor, a smaller
vessel, was launched this year and cost
two-million.
• •
New controller of New Zealand’s
Maori Welfare Division is Charles
Moihi Bennett, D. 5.0., M.A., Dip. Ed.,
Dip.Soc.Sc., and cast in the same mould
as Rangi Royal, whom he succeeds.
They were both Maori Battalion men:
Royal, a major, M.C. and Bar, was for
a time 2 i/c, and Bennett was later C.O.
as lieut.-colonel. An Old Boy of Te Aute
College and a former student of Otago
University and Canterbury and Victoria
University Colleges, Bennett is a son of
the late Rt. Rev. F. A. Bennett, Bishop
of Aotearoa —the first Maori bishop. He
goes up to his new post from assistant-
controller logical choice all round.
• •
“H.H.” (London), on a musical
expatriate:
Charles Mackerras is an old Sydney Grammar
boy who, in a mere nine years in England, has
achieved double-distinction in music. His repu-
tation now stands so high that he has
relinquished a staff-job and become a freelance
conductor.
He tells me that his past 18 months as
conductor of the 8.8. C. Concert Orchestra
were especially rewarding. The repertoire was
astonishingly wide, ranging from Mozart and
Richard Strauss and Copeland in public con-
certs to operatic arias and musical-comedy
numbers in broadcast features such as “Myself
and Music.” Previously he was resident-con-
ductor at Sadler’s Wells.
Interesting, too, are his reflections on the
other aspects of his art —creative re-scoring of
music for the ballet. First, “Pineapple Poll,”
after Sullivan, and now a brisk, tuneful and
exhilarating arrangement of music by Verdi to
John Cranko’s Covent Garden ballet “The
Lady and the Fool.” This is meticulous, exact-
ing work, involving the study of long-forgotten
operas (he deliberately avoids the well-known
tunes) and close adherence to the scenario. The
orchestration, besides being “modern,” has also
to incorporate the vocal line.
The decision to freelance will not, he says,
“make much difference.” He will broadcast
two or three times a week and conduct English
orchestras, including the Boyd Neel and the
English Opera Group, at public concerts. And
he has just entered into a new contract with
H.M.V. to record repertoire ballets. An Aus-
tralian tour may follow in a year or two’s time.
Modest, practical, and entirely free from
“long-haired” personality, Mackerras is unas-
suming about further prospects, saying that he
has “nothing definite” in mind. With such
versatility of experience behind him the future
may plan itself. Particularly as he’s only 30.
e o
For the past 43 years Ross Kerr has
collected his sugar from Colonial Sugar,
firstly in comparative grains as a lad of
17 in the accounts-branch; then, having
northed to Queensland at 25, within five
years he was supervising production in
C.S.R. mills, north. Now Brisbane man-
ager, he hands-over (just as mechanical
harvesting, the “greatest advance in 40
years,” is being introduced) to A. J. Priest-
ley, son of the H. J. Priestley who was
Professor of Maths, at Queensland Uni.
The new man is from the company’s
sales-department in Sydney. Kerr was
with the old sth Pioneers in France;
Priestley was on Royal Navy patrols
in Hitler’s show.
© •
The Coastal Command Sunderland
which Len Swan navigated during War II
always took its time to get off the water
near Plymouth (Eng.) and gain height.
Not so Len in his civilian career. He
joined Commonwealth Oil Refineries,
Ltd.,, as a sales representative less than
10 years ago, and now has gone to the
U.K. for a tour of duty with British
Petroleum, the parent company. He’d
been C.O.R.’s assistant-manager for
South Australia less than a year when he
went to Tasmania, last April, as the com-
LEN SWAN
pany’s first manager for the Speck. Short
and stocky, he was born 43 years ago in
Adelaide, was educated at Unley High
School and Adelaide University, captained
an Aussie Rules side in the Amateur
League and, at 41, celebrated his last sea-
son of cricket by taking his club’s
bowling-trophy.
© •
E. T. Edwards, public-relations director
for the University of New England, is the
president of the Australian Institute of
Agricultural Science for 1956. An ag.-
science graduate from Sydney, he got his
Master’s degree for research on a new
seedling blight-disease of maize, was
awarded a Service Fellowship by the
Commonwealth Fund of New York, and
spent two years researching on plant-
pathology at Wisconsin (U.S.), where he
took his Ph.D. He worked as a plant-
pathologist for N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture for some years, resigned to
become editor of a monthly agricultural
paper, then did publicity-work for
C.5.1.R.0. before taking on his present
job.
• •
William Addison Freeman, who passed
on in Sydney last week at 82, was a man
of many interests, but stands out as one
of the great (successful) mining specula-
tors and organisers of this century. A
Sydney solicitor who, early in his career,
specialised in company-law, he and a
New Zealander, C. A. Banks, founded in
Canada 30 years ago the now-famous
international group of mining companies
headed by Placer Development, Ltd. He
was for many years president of Placer
Development and chairman of its first
big offshoot, Bulolo Gold Dredging;
W. A. FREEMAN, as seen by Dubois.
earlier, with H. E. Pratten, he had
founded the lucrative Austral Malay
Tin and its subsidiaries. Later he was
interested in Oil Search, Ltd., the Aus-
tralian leg of the big international pros-
pecting combine currently looking for oil
in Papua. He had other business in-
terests, owned racehorses (including the
unlucky Silver Standard), and retained his
interest in a gamble; not all his specula-
tions were successful, but he took losses
philosophically, and had a great reputa-
tion for integrity and kindliness, as well
as a regard for the King’s English in
commercial documents.
o e
King Island, remote in Bass Strait mid-
way between Victoria and the Apple Isle,
has come into the cultural limelight for
the first time in its history, Laurie Payne,
who was born there, having been
described by London critics as “one of
the singing finds of recent theatre-his-
tory.” Under the stage pseudonym of
Laurence Lott, he made his mark in Mel-
bourne National Theatre operatic pro-
ductions ; trained at Melbourne Conser-
vatorium, and went to England 'five years
ago. He is playing in a show called “The
Water Gipsies,” based on the book by
A. P. Herbert.
© •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 68, Captain James William
Herd, one of the world’s leading salvage-experts.
He recovered £2,379,000-worth of gold from the
Niagara, off the N.Z. coast, and during War II
frequently worßed under fire in New Guinea
waters, recovering military equipment. Com-
manded A.U.S.N. ships, and was a member of
the Commonwealth Salvage Board and the
Queensland Marine Board.
At 43, in Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital
(Melbourne), Ronald Alan Hobbs. A War II
Digger and former editor of the “Sunraysia
Daily,” Mildura, he was chief-of-staff of Mel-
bourne “Herald” from 1951 to 1955.
In Sydney, at 68, Thomas Anderson, of the
accountancy firm Parsons, Anderson. Member
of the board of the Metropolitan Hospitals
Contribution Fund, formerly on the board ot
St. Vincent's Hospital and, during War 11,
the compensation-board for N.S.W. lines-oi-
communication.


IN THE PAST TENSE


ABORIGINALITIES
T OOKING over the wreckage of a
friend’s home and farm after
“Agnes,” the big cyclone, had visited
Cairns (Q.), I was introduced to the
farm’s modest heroine.
A rugged individualist, the Muscovy
had selected as a site for the hatching-
out of her clutch of eggs an exposed posi-
tion atop a grassy knoll, flanked on each
side by bladey-grass, and to the fore
a totally inadequate clump of kangaroo-
grass.
When “Agnes” struck, the farmhouse
roof departed for parts unknown ; so did
some of the bladey-grass around Mrs.
Muscovy. When two rooms of the house
sailed past her hideout she stuck her beak
in the ground and held on.
An acre of newly-planted pineapples
caught the breeze and vanished; so did
Mrs. M.’s kangaroo-grass frontier. She
simply took a firmer grip.
Another portion of the house became
airborne, most of the fowls likewise, and
the winter crop of pineapples was flat-
tened. The old girl flattened, too;
crouching low over her precious eggs;
but her beak held.
Dawn showed a lone Muscovy, still
sitting on her wind-hewn pinnacle.
Somewhat tired, somewhat cramped, but
the look in her beady eye said, “I’ve a
job to do, Agnes or no Agnes, and I’m
blanky well going to do it.”
I have it on good authority that Mrs.
M. will not end her days as old Musco-
vites do. She’ll be a pensioner, who will
be able to tell her children’s children of
the day and night she rode out the blow!
Big Blow.
“C.A.A.”: That human
nature doesn’t change, de-
spite technological advances,
is shown at the little town-
ship of Noradjuha, near
Horsham (Vic.). In the
horse-and-buggy era autho-
rities erected a hitching-rail
in front of the post-office to
stop horsemen riding up to
the boxes and taking their
mail without dismounting.
The local council has de-
cided that, far from remov-
ing the rail as a relic of
other days, it will renew
and strengthen it to prevent
motorists from driving up
to the office to collect their
mail without getting out.
* *
“Montrose”: The kooka-
burra was hunting along my
side of a log being levered
out of its bed to roll down-
hill. A lizard shot through
to the down-side and Jacko
flipped over to get it just
as the log started rolling.
Jacko squawked as it passed
over him, but at tea-time he
clocked-in on schedule for
his hand-out. A tussock had
raised the log high enough
to miss him.
“Moorapi”: Latest industry to be
white-anted in Australia is the wine-trade.
The Darwin merchant who closed his
store for four days found this out when
he reopened his doors. Wine, rum and
champagne flowed in sticky, reeking
pools, the kegs and cases .violated with
greedy thoroughness. Drunks by the
thousand reeled about the floor or
floated blissfully or lifelessly in the
liquor. Those that must have got the
greatest, but briefest, thrill were the ones
that had shot to the ceiling on
champagne-corks after gnawing the tapes
through, and left their termite remains on
high.
* * * *
“Derwent”: How lucky can you be!
Walt Disney’s nature - cameraman
Alfred Milotte had spent a few
days on a Tassie property near
Launceston trying without success
to get a ringtailed possum to face the
camera. Back in the city’s Brisbane
Hotel he and his wife were sitting in the
lounge at night when a ringtail calmly
entered and sat down near them. It had
been seen dodging cars in the street out-
side, after apparently having fallen from
a passing timber-lorry.
“Chap what made that, Tummas, dedden know much ’bout locomotives.”
“Salmon Gums”: A Perth naturalist
who’s been breeding mountain-devils —
Moloch horridus —in captivity for six
years started-off with a female, and when
she laid some eggs on the ground he
buried them. They didn’t hatch, and
neither did those of a second female
captured when heavy with eggs, presum-
ably fertilised. Eventually a male was
procured, and the pair mated in April.
They ate little during the subsequent
winter, but their appetites returned with
the spring, and sometimes the female
would lick-up ants for hours at a time.
Halfway through November the female
dug a burrow about 18in. long and going
down to about a foot deep, taking three
What appeals to me about jungle law is the survival-of-the-fittest idea."
days on the job, and then laying her eggs
in a cavity which wasn’t filled-in when
the burrow was covered and rammed.
Eighteen weeks later two young molochs
emerged and promptly escaped through
a half-inch mesh; but one, found a
couple of days later, was over 2in. long
and went for ants with its ears back.
Later other broods were hatched, and the
incubation period varied (apparently with
the weather) from between 90 to 128 days.
Incidentally, the notion that mountain-
devils don’t drink, but absorb enough
moisture through the skin, is wrong.
These kept in captivity licked-up drops
;of water and even licked at wet sand
after rain.
* * * *
“Bluey”: Please ask “Yack” (B.
14/3/’56) to let me know exactly where
he saw the big goanna that used the 3in.
pipe for armor in its terrible battle with
Joe Blake. The ungrateful cow cleared
out on me after I had spent six months
teaching him that trick. By the way, the
pipe did have a left-hand thread, didn’t
it?,
* * * *
“Woorarra”: “Bass” is right about the
magpie-lark’s liking for swamp-snails
(B. 14/3/’56); but does the pied fowl
also attack that closely-related mollusc
which ravages the lettuce-patch? While
magpie-larks (peewees to -me) have a
liking for shallow swamps—and for the
aquatic-snails they find there —they are
also great garden-workers, and one would
expect them to go for the shell-backed
pest in a big way; but my observation
suggests otherwise.
* * * *
“Maitri”: Staying at an English rec-
tory I was nearly driven cuckoo by
cuckoos repeating their two-toned lamen-
tation from dawn to dusk. But for sheer
monotony and desolation of bird-call
that English fowl isn’t in the race with
our koel (rain-bird). Yet, strangely, he
hasn’t worried us much during the
wettest summer on record in these parts.
Usually/he’s a good weather-prophet—he
no sooner strikes-up than the great damp
descends. You’d be prepared to swear
the koel is ventriloquial: he sounds as if
he’§ bang against your ear, when actually
he’s near half-a-mile away.
* * * *
“Motuku”: Toe-groping for pipis on
the ocean-beach, we found a small crea-
ture that carried me in imagination to
the rain-forests of the near-by moun-
tains, where the little rufous scrub-bird,
or mouse-bird, raises its brood in a nest
of grass, forest-leaves and bracken which
it strengthens and waterproofs by macer-
ating with saliva, to form, when dry, a
smooth, hard cup. The little sea-creature
was the heart-shaped sea-urchin (Echino-
cardium cordatum), unique in having
bilateral symmetry—head and tail ends
—instead of the radial symmetry of
other sea-urchins. Though seldom found
on exposed ocean beaches, the heart-
shaped urchins are common in sheltered
bays and estuaries, where they burrow
into the sand and live in little caves a
few inches below the surface, the roof
and walls of sand prevented from col-
lapsing by a stiffening of slime derived
from their bodies.
* * * *
“Erah”: The old Rhode Island Red
rooster had never had his domain
seriously challenged until the 4ft. black-
snake crawled through the wirenetting;
then he pranced about with feathers
ruffled, putting in a few pecks, trying to
block the way. As Joe kept on a steady
course the rooster became a streak of
fury, jumping all over the place and get-
ting in a well-aimed peck where and when
he could. Joe riposted with a will, both
from ground-level and first-floor, but each
strike just glanced off the feathers. They
were both exhausted when I came along
with the waddy and crowned the slitherer.
As I draped Joe over the fence the rooster
wobbled over to his frightened harem in a
corner and, with his last bit of strength,
threw his head back, looked at his van-
quished enemy, and crowed.
• * * *
lyrOT long back a pair of rainbow-
' lorikeets nested high up in a hollow
spout of a lofty gum. Much lower down,
miners built their nest in a leafy bough.
' I don’t know who took up tenancy
first, but'the honeyeaters never ceased to
harass their lovely neighbors, who did a
lot of screeching, but rarely retaliated.
Both species are extremely vocal, and the
din was at times terrific.
The miners, their family raised, de-
parted, but the lorikeets lingered on.
Then, one evening as I watched them
perched on the topmost branch of a
bloodwood, the last rays of the sun
illuminating their brilliant plumage, I
heard a miner’s unmistakable call. I
looked round, but swiftly realised that
the sound came from a parrot’s throat.
During the next 15 minutes I heard
numerous renderings of the miner’s reper-
toire, all notes faithfully recorded. Not,
perhaps, a particularly difficult imitation
for this lorikeet, as there is a vaguely
minerlike sound about one of its more
subdued screeches, but never having noted
before a case of parrot-mimicry in the
wild I was greatly interested.
That records of this kind are scanty
seems amazing, in view of the fact that
so many species of Pshtacidce are talented
talkers and mimics in capuvity.
SAAEDI.
MONSOON IN THE NORTH-WEST
If I could be where the big rains break
I’d see the raven sweep
Of flying scud and scattered cloud;
I’d watch the wurlies reap—
The red dust’s hate where torrid wastes
Are shot to shimmered heat.
Lost in a dream of deep delight
I’d watch the wild duck rise,
An ebon wedge against the light
Of fiery summer skies;
I’d hear the storm-bird wake’the still
With shrill discordant cries
Of “Rain. More rain!” from slimy bank
And treacherous weed-grown creek—
Whose quiet resounds to cuff and curse,
To whip and saddle-creak
As stockmen strive to'cheat the “rise”
Of stubborn brutes they seek —
Of stubborn brutes that start in flight
As darkness falls, to reign
In brooding quiet in which no owl
Nor small bird dare complain,
And lightning strikes with white-hot hate
The dry defenceless plain.
I’d hope to see the far trees fade
In creeping mists of rain—
A swift advancing wall of white
Whose furies wax and wane,
While through the night the first frog starts
His plaintive wild refrain.
I’d breathe great scents of sodden earth
And hear above the quiver
Of rain-soaked trees the sullen roar
That means a rising river—
A sound all set on a stormy night
To shadow your soul forever
With wild regret for the visions lost,
The dreams and the joys that tether
A heart so tuned to the simple things
And a life that is lived forever,
In full content that its ways be set
To the whims of the wind and weather.
For one who has known the open space
And peace of the spreading plains
Through all the years that the locust ate
Will find this thing remains—
The call of the land our fathers loved
Through the scent of its summer rains.
QUEENSLAND.
E. R. MURRAY.


DRIVING by Fijian canefields we
passed three Indians horse-riding.
Two sported brilliant red shirts and all
looked as if they had ridden out of a
Technicolor Western, except that the
one in the yellow shirt who had his hand
so casually on his hip was fondling not
a gun, but a neatly-furled umbrella. —
“Q. Ree.”
* * * * i
“Bunya”: Canefarmers in North
Queensland imported giant toads to rid
plantations of voracious cane-beetles.
The recent floods brought scores of the
big fellows flopping into Townsville’s
main streets. The trend in science-fiction
has kept young fry au fait with scientific
tests and what animals are best suited for
lab.-research. Which is why Townsville
hospitals—per young, nimble fingers and
a price—find themselves with a welcome
glut of outsize toads for experimental
purposes.
* * * *
“H.W.”: Among the accoutrements of
the old-time Maori was the pahu, or
wooden drum, the deep, booming voice
of which could be heard up to 20 miles
away. It warned other villages of the
approach of the enemy; and in times of
peace it tolled the dark hours. Some pahu
were canoe-shaped, erected upside-down
on two stakes ; others were barrel-shaped,
with beaters or clappers attached to the
apertures. Some ranged up to 30ft. long,
6in. thick and 3ft. wide, and were sus-
pended from a ridgepole by stout
flaxen-ropes. The most striking-looking
pahu was made from a hollowed-out
standing tree-trunk, with the suspended
slab hung in the centre. One such, known
as Pakopako—strictly,
tapu—was used solely
by chiefs when visit-
ing the pa after the
wars were over.
* *
“Kelms”: Is “Jas.”
(B. 14/3/’56) right in
describing mimicry as
a “difficult art” for
birds? There are
dozens of species in
which mimicry seems
to be inherent—off-
hand, there are the
lyrebird, parrots, mag-
pie, bellbird, butcher-
bird ; even silvereyes.
And some of those
birds don’t confine
their repertoire to
other bird-calls.
They’ll mimic any
sound from a motor-
horn to the ring of
an axe on wood.
Cage a lovebird and a
canary whistler to-
gether for a few
months and the
budgie’ll take his cob-
ber off to a note;
leave them together a bit longer and he’ll
beat him, because the canary will have
spoilt his song mimicking the budgie. I
think most birds can mimic others, and
do so more often than is imagined. What
amazes me is that the individual call-
notes and songs should have remained so
distinctive— and instinctive.
* * # *
“Jas.”: Because of a strong ten-
dency towards plumage-variations, our
diurnal raptorials are difficult to iden-
tify in the air. Immature birds differ
from adults, males from females —the
latter are often larger—and, worst of all,
individuals of like age and sex differ
from each other. Falcons (excepting the
black), with their near-relative the little
nankeen-kestrel, are comparatively easy
to recognise. So, also, are our two
greatest eagles the black-breasted
buzzard and the fork-tailed and letter-
winged kites. The rest mostly range
from hard to very hard. Flight-
silhouettes help a little in identifying
hawks. Goshawks flap their wings
frequently, eagles have a steady and
serene flight, while harriers usually fly
close to the ground, and hold their
wings with ends slightly raised. And so
on.
* * * *
“T.T.”: “W.G.D.” asks (B. 21/3/’56)
(a) by whom, (b) when, and (c) from
where were camels introduced into Aus-
tralia. My source of information says
the answers are: (a) Phillips Bros.; (6)
1846 ; (c) Canary Islands (one shipment
of 10).
• * * *
“Old Mac”: The word “fracteur” (B.
14/3/’56) is an abbreviation of the
French lithofracteur, a hybrid scientific-
term from Gk. lithos, stone or rock, and
Lat. fractor, breaker. It contains 55 per
cent, nitroglycerin, mixed with siliceous
earth, coal, barium-nitrate, sulphur and
sodium-bicarbonate. .The English equiv-
alent is “rendrock,” not to be confused
with “rackarock,” which contains three-
parts potassium-chlorate to one-part
nitro-benzol. Both were in use on “The
Towers” (Q.) in its roaring days at the
beginning of the century, when the “eur”
was pronounced like English “er” and
not like “ure.”
“Ausden”: About the common spelling
of fracteur. All firms supplying us with
explosives, overseas as well as domestic,
use the term as thus spelt; but those of
our N.T. mine-staff arriving from
Westralia invariably write “fracture,” as
do the German technicians employed by
our diamond-drilling contractors. The
whole subject is explosive, yes?,
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The soothing weed was
in very short supply in the little town.
“Give you yours out the back,” the
worried tobacconist told the regular cus-
tomer. “But the shop’s empty! ” pro-
tested the client. “I know,” the weed-
dispenser told him, “but they’re watching
me with field-glasses from the pub-bal-
cony across the street.”
* * * *
“Eighty-Seven”: I made my first
damper when I camped with a sandal-
wooder on the Westralian goldfields in my
early youth. After gravely examining
that solid sod he pronounced it not a
whit as tough as one tumed-out in the
early days. This one, it appeared, looked
like petrified wood, and lamed several
“Who surveyed it? Burke and Wills?"
fellows who fell over it around the camp
at night before it was presented to the
local rifle-club for use as a target. After
some years they wore a hole in the centre,
so a member fitted handles on it, and
used it as a grindstone for years, until
it wore down. Eventually it found a
permanent billet on the 300 ft. level of
the Roaring Gimlet as a wheel in a
Cousin Jack wheelbarrow. I believed
him, too, till he sent me round the camps
trying to borrow a spare bubble for his
spirit-level.
« * * *
“Wint”: He came up ih the heap of
loam unearthed by the sharp tines of the
fork, a quarter-inch from Eternity.
"I know you all miss the satisfaction of a hard days work Well done."
“Golden Boy” I called him. His skin
was golden, shot with green; brown,
white and grey tints showed through;
the front was creamy-white. A golden
ring encircled the lustrous, bulbous black
eyes. The ears were flat, membrane-
covered spots ; his feet were normal, with
five webbed toes, but only four digits
showed on j the hands at the ends of each
pigeon-toed forearm! His nostrils
quivered with shock; pulse was a racing
, 180; respiration. 80. I put him in the
long grass at the pond’s edge: I’m en
rapport with frogs, one of God’s most
friendly and harmless creatures.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: The most urgent require-
ment for the noisome drain, which had
to be repaired, was obviously a drop of
that unfailing germ-dispeller of mother’s
-sheep-dip. I asked the young matron
occupying the house could she oblige.
“ Sheep-dip ?” —she’d never heard of it.
At the-shop the young assistant looked
amusedly amazed. No, they didn’t carry
anything in the veterinary line. He
thought my best bet would be one of the
big woolstores. As I was leaving, an
elderly assistant came across: “What was
it you wanted?” Told him. “Sheep-dip!”
he said. “Ah, yes. Great stuff. Haven’t
seen it for twenty-odd years. Best I can
give you is phen” I took the stuff
and left, with a fellow-feeling strong
within me for Rip Van Winkle.
* * * *
“Spin”: At £248 a ton in Perth, and
rising, manna-gum looks an attractive
proposition; but there are snags. It’s
the gum from certain wattles, but only
about three species of the tree yield the
first-class gum, and there’s no prize for
second. It must be entirely soluble in
water to compete with gum-arabic from
the Sudan; this means that a heavy
shower washes the lot away, so picking
it is essentially a summer job. In ordinary
bush-country the trees are scattered, and
even if you struck a good patch you’d
still have to find the gum. It exudes
where the trunks of limbs are wounded
—the wounding is done deliberately in
the Sudan, where the trees are culti-
vated —and even in good going a man
would be lucky to gather 501 b. a day. The
abos. had the right idea with it. It was
one of the few sweet things they had to
eat, and they loved it; when they struck
a good crop they made it the excuse for
an inter-tribal gathering.
THE STONES OF KURRANA
Day, the grey-parrot, has flown to the hills,
Away to the caves of Kurrana,
Where the spirits wait in that lonely place,
Wait for release from that stony place,
As Stones, they wait in Kurrana ...
The bandicoot stirs in his sleep, by the creek
When the moon bursts the clouds asunder;
The mopoke moans by the billabong.
The bats sweep down like a shadowed throng,
. . . And the spirits leave Kurrana.
From a sky, iron-sheeted, in a night grown long,
The blood-moon drips iii the billabong,
Drowning her light among the reeds
And the breaking mist round the brigalow trees;
Then spirit-shapes vague and liquid-gleaming,
Flecked with the shadows of long-past dreaming,
Come where the sow-thistles tangle their stems,.
And the scorpion, hiding, watches them
Mime their corroborees ...
Primeval blackmen—manhood forsaken;
Strength, but a cloud-breath, life blasted and
gone— , .
Only the stricken stars gaze on their sorrow
In bitterness wailed by the billabong.
Dawn brushes the earth with her trailing wings
When the spirits return to Kurrana,
And the air is filled with an ancient dust
When morning, in melancholy, thrusts
Her light on the Stones of Kurrana
, . . The dreaming Stones of Kurrana!
VICTORIA.
BRENDA MORRIS.
HERMITS, MISSILES, ETC.
WHEN Woomera was first mooted it
was planned to resume the whole
Range-area from Port Augusta to the
Indian Ocean.
Everybody —white, black or brindle —
was to be turfed out, with appropriate
compensation paid to the sheepfarmers.
When the S.A. holdings alone were
assessed it was decided it would be
cheaper to have another war.
The pastoralists stayed, under an equit-
able arrangement for security and safety-
control and' general field co-operation.
The system works well, though some
of the lone boundary-riders at out-
stations created problems. Typical of
some of these hermit characters, a few
resented the intrusion of strangers and did
everything possible to avoid contact with
Range staff.
One used to hide under his bunk
wrapped in hessian when he saw the
alerting officers coming. Since his hut
was in a danger-area there were anxious
moments until the old fellow could be
persuaded to get on his horse and move
off.
He sneaked back a couple of times,
only to have something particularly
vicious whizz over his head. Nothing
would convince him he wasn’t being
deliberately shot at.
Another lone character lived in one
room of an old five-roomed stone out-
station. Permission was readily given by
the manager for a surveyor and his chain-
man to camp in the house while in the
area. The old fellow stood the intrusion
for one day, and then pitched a tent a
few hundred yards aw!ay. He told his
boss the house was “too bloody
crowded.”
The daddy of all these Centre hermits
was at an outstation hut in a remote
and desolate area. He refused to have
any contact at all with an Army sigs.-
group camped near by. Even when their
rations were late he refused any assistance
and vanished into the saltbush. On their
last morning the boys chalked on his hut-
door “The Meanest Bastard on Earth.”
What the troops didn’t know was that
the old fellow couldn’t read.
When he returned from his fences at
noon he was flustered to find his door
decorated. He didn’t hesitate. He took
the door off its hinges, harnessed-up his
camel dray, and drove 15 miles to the
head-station to have the message inter-
preted.
The manager looked at the door, bit
his lip to keep his face straight, and ex-
plained the writing was a farewell-
message from the boys.
OLD OPENCUT.


a
y'/s.
%
-4-
*
VU' 1 K
'«ir
%
AVIATION
SERVICE
*
ill II h/V
I lll'llll
/ "•//
as
.1 •!. .1
/ I. "I
'"/V;/,/
r/,. 11 ,
'//'//
e?
C 5
fiys' /
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
keep mom safe!
Aifitfv
SANDERS!
Correspondence, invoices.'
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect boolr of reference at
the end of each month —Or
any other period.
Prices and for*
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Oittribmttng A genii —
MELBOURNE , . Norman Broi. Pty. Lt*
ADELAIDE . . . V.rdon Prior Ud.
PERTH . , , Docket Book Co. tAooLI
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Front-liners Firm
TN an investment-market where
A Coipmonwealth bonds con-
tinue to weaken and, where there
is three years or more to run,
to give yields of from £5 per cent,
to £5 ss. per cent., first-class
ordinary industrial shares are
maintaining their ground extra-
ordinarily well. It would almost
seem that some investors are
selling-out of bonds and putting
their money into 8.H.P., A.C.I.
and the like.
When sharemarkets reopened
after the Easter break B.H.P. rose
by Is. to 425. 3d., and at that
figure gave a yield of 4.7 p.c.
A.C.I. at 545. 3d. showed 4.6 p.c.
Even C.S.R., these days by no
means the most popular of
market-leaders, at £3B 10s. gave
a return of 5.2 p.c., which is
comparable with the yield on
long-term bonds at present.
1.C.1. showed 3.9 p.c., Tooth 4.6
p.c., Burns Philp 3.9 p.c. The
insurance group mostly returned
under 4 p.c. at current quota-
tions.
In such a market Bank of
N.S.W. shares at £3l 12s. 6d.,
yielding 5.7 p.c., looked quite
appealing, more especially the
rights to the new issue at £5 10s.,
representing £3O 10s. on a fully-
paid basis (plus brokerage).
Masonite rights at 7s. are
equally interesting to return
5.9 p.c. on a fully-paid basis
of 17s.
Second-line stocks, even where
of undoubted merit, have not
been as solidly supported as the
A.C.1.-1.C.1.-B.H.P. stratum.
Buying of second-liners has been
extremely selective. And with
sound reason, in many cases.
Textile companies almost
generally have had a bad run—
latest indicator was the loss
shown by Lustre Hosiery—and
there have been sporadic
casualties right through the list
of second- and third-line stocks.
For the moment, because of the
difficulties in the woollen-textile
trade, even Yarra Falls, leader in
its class, has dropped to 28s. 3d.,
to return 5.7 p.c. Australian
Woollen Millls, a particularly
strong profit-earner in the past,
shows a yield of 7 p.c. at 31s. 6d.
Bradford Cotton Mills, though
it has recovered from the recent
“low” of 365., at 38s. 9d. still
gives a high yield of 6.5 p.c.
On the other hand, Davis
Gelatine, a comparatively new
arrival on the Exchange, but
known as one of Australia’s basic
industries, shows an immediate
yield of only 4.6 p.c. at 30s. 6d.
This stock has had outstanding
market support over the past
three months, though the indi-
cated div. is 7 p.c. Profit-earning
would undoubtedly permit a
much higher div. to be paid, but
it has been the practice in the
past to plough-back more profit
than has been distributed.
Tancred Bros. Industries,
recently converted to a public
co., has declared a first div. at
the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., but the
scrip is not yet listed on ’Change.
There has been an unusual delay
i in listing in this case.
Malcolm Moore Industries,
which dropped following the new
issue that was made to help
finance the co.’s tractor-manu-
facturing activities, has recovered
in Melbourne to 265. R. B.
Davies, mass - producer of
builders’ hardware in Sydney and
Melbourne, is at its lowest price
for several years, with sales down
to 21s. 6d. The co. does not pay
interim divs., its 8 p.c. having
been paid for some years in one
lump after the close of accounts.
TV Corp. shares in Sydney are
still a shilling below par at 4s.
Overseas experience suggests that
profits are a long time coming in
TV ventures. Tecnico £1 ords.,
of which Pye (England) holds
the majority, have been inactive
at around 12s. This co. may
participate later on in supplying
TV equipment, but profits there-
from are likely to be a good way
off. Tecnico’s other activities
were unprofitable in its last term,
and there has been no ord. div.
since 1952.
Following the new “supple-
mentary Budget” from Canberra,
the sharemarket’s reaction has
been the same as it has been in
other major investment-market
movements in the last two years
—selective.
With regard to mining shares,
present speculative interest is
centred on titanium stocks. There
is a real boom on in this depart-
ment. Those concerns at pre-
sent equipped to take advantage
of prevailing high rutile prices
may do very well on the par-
value of their capital. But where
eight times par-value is being
paid a number of things need to
“Come outside and say that!”
be pondered, including the likeli-
hood of demand for rutile com
tinuing, and whether titanium in
the near future may not be made
from ilmenite more cheaply
than from rutile.
It is known that some big
mining interests are sidestepping
the rutile field because of the
high cost of initial equipment
and the doubt as to whether that
equipment can be profitably
employed for very long once it
is installed.
Sydney “Herald” Goes
Public
A FTER several years of con-
templation, the Fairfax
family have decided to turn the
ownership of the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” over to a public
company.
These days taxation of private-
company profits is high, particu-
larly in respect of undistributed
profits, and the N.S.W. Stamp
Duties Office can arbitrarily
value shares in a private co. for
probate purposes. A public co.
pays no undistributed-profits tax,
and probate-duty is levied on the
value of the shares in the open
market at date of death. Thus
public-co. shares can usually be
sold on the Stock Exchange at
probate valuations; but rarely
can private-co. scrip be realised
for as much as probate appraise-
ment.
The “Herald” has recently
sold its old Hunter-street free-
hold and re-established itself
near Broadway, taking the “Sun”
publications with it. (The “Sun”
building in Elizabeth-street has
also been sold.) The “Herald”
has also in recent years acquired
a majority-holding in Associated
Newspapers, Ltd., publishers of
the “Sun” and a number of
rotogravure periodicals, and it
entered into a joint- venture
agreement to merge the “Sunday
Sun” and the “Sunday Herald”
into one paper.
All these changes and acquisi-
tions have, on balance, involved
the “Herald” proprietary, which
is John Fairfax and Sons Pty.,
Ltd., in heavy capital outlay. The
undistributed-profits tax has
penalised the system of plough-
ing-back profits to finance capital
outlay.
The new public co. to take
over the Fairfax proprietary will
be a holding co. called John
Fairfax, Ltd. It will have a paid-
up capital of £4 million, of
which £2 million will be issued
in part-payment for the shares of
the Fairfax proprietary, and £2
million wijl be offered to the
public at par. The Fairfaxes
will get another £1,600,000 in
cash, making £3,600,000 alto-
gether.
The Fairfax family will reinvest
£1,500,000 of the cash-considera-
tion in debentures in the pro-
prietary.
The Fairfax proprietary is now
offering to buy the remaining
ordinary shares in Associated
Newspapers, Ltd., at 255. each,
for cash, or, in effect, the 255.
may be taken in the form of
one share in John Fairfax, Ltd.,
at par, plus ss. in cash if so
desired., The board of Associ-
ated Newspapers unanimously
recommends the offer, which is
open until April 27.
The public issue of shares,
including, apparently, those
under offer to Associated share-
holders, has been underwritten
by Melbourne brokers lan
Potter and Co. A prospectus will
be available “shortly.”
Some idea of the public reac-
tion to the issue of shares by
John Fairfax, Ltd., the new
holding co., can be gauged by
the market for shares in Associ-
ated Newspapers, Ltd., since, at
the holder’s option, one Associ-
ated share is worth one Fairfax
share plus ss.
Prior to the announcement
Associated shares sold at
225. lOd. On the day the news
broke, they jumped to 28s.
This gives Fairfax shares, in
advance of the prospectus, a
value of 235.
Cape Range No. 2
pROM L. Owen: Readers of
1 The Bulletin will not be
surprised at the news that Cape
Range No. 2 well is being
abandoned after producing
an ephemeral flow of gas
(B. 14/ 3/ ’56) of unstated com-
position. It should be abundantly
clear, also, that the geo-
logical premises—on which the
“developmental” technique used
in testing the Carnarvon Basin
was based—are in need of drastic
revision.
None could be more appre-
ciative than myself of the magni-
ficent effort and superlative team-
work that was shown by Wapet
technicians in reaching the depth
of 15,170 ft. —a record for the
Southern Hemisphere after
transporting the necessary equip-
ment to a site to which access
was, in itself, a major problem.
That such an effort was wasted,
largely owing to geological and
geophysical misinterpretations of
conditions and structure at depth,
makes the abandonment of the
well all the more galling.
. It is to be hoped, however,
that it is now realised—and not
only within the confines of the
Carnarvon Basin that post-
Jurassic structures, in themselves,
play only a minor part in the
segregation of commercial
“pools” of petroleum on the
Australian mainland.


Would you like good
whisky better?
m
M eye fo\
r~
BEIXS
. ty h
DISTILLED AHD BLt"
*.|IM SCOTLAND a.
d, STILLERS k«™ SCOT
1
__ product or
**» Contents - i pint 6 fIV „ d
If whisky is really good,
made in Scotland —can one
ask for anything more ? We
think you can —that it
should bear the name
‘Bell’s’. We are independent
distillers. Independent to
go on making the finest
whisky our long experience
can produce. Buy a bottle
of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if
it is not Scotch Whisky at
its spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISitY
Arthur Bell& Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DUDLEY CAMPBELL McLAOHLAN
late of Orange.—TAKE NOTICE that
JEAN LESLIE McLACHLAN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1028 of 1965 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three (3) years and
upwards If you desire to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 18th of June One thousand
nine hundred and fifty-six You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. L. D. SERISIER
& CO., Solicitors, 193-195 Summer Street,
Orange, or their Town Agents, MESSRS.
PETER G. KEARNEY & CO., of 60
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
The N.S.W. Government guarantees
£631'5'- for each £500 invested
for 5 years in the
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
ES'S'-To LOAN
SEE THE EXTRA INTEREST YOU GAIN IN 5 YEARS!
• optional term. You can invest for either 5 or 20 years at this
new, highly profitable rate of £5/5/- per cent per annum.
O YOUR interest is payable half-yearly, and can be credited direct
to your bank account.
q free of EXCHANGE. Subscriptions, interest, and repayment of
principal at maturity are free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
• TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. Superannuation, Provident, Church and
Club funds camalso earn £5/5/- per cent. The Loan is an Authorised
Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and
Tasmania.
• SUBSCRIPTIONS. Cash applications may be lodged in full or
10% deposit and the balance by instalments up to 31st July, 1956.
Minimum subscription is £5O.
O investment takes ONLY MINUTES at any Commonwealth Trading
Bank. You can also apply through a Stockbroker or at the Sydney
Water Board Office.
• APPLY TO-DAY. As the Board cannot retain oversubscrip-
tions, early investment is essential to secure your allotment.
Loan No. 145 will close not later than 23rd April, 1956, and it is under-
written by lan Potter & Co.
W 8L27-56
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
IN 1944—the year of D-Day in
Europe the Coalition
Government published a White
Paper on employment policy. It
was a bold action, for the war
had still to be won, and it was
farsighted, because men and
women numbering into millions
had to be. repatriated. Both
parties were working together for
the general good, and both
parties feared that a slump, with
widespread unemployment,
would be a natural aftermath of
demobilisation.
The remedy, broadly, was the
maintenance of “an adequate
volume of purchasing-power ’
and, as with Roosevelt’s New
Deal, a vast programme of
public works.
As so often happens, the tide
of events ran contrary to predic-
tion. Happily, there has been no
slump, and unemployment is the
lowest ever. But public works,
so far from representing a
splendid new order, have lagged
behind requirements. Moreover,
our railways are less efficient
than they were 50 years ago,
and our road-systems are obso-
lescent and in need of repair
from sheer lack of available
money. Instead*- something like
90 p.c. of Government expendi-
ture goes to the social services
and (a sad reflection, after the
hopes of 1944) to armaments.
The Government has not
maintained purchasing - power,
for the pound has fallen steadily
in value. But, to use an old-
fashioned term, spending-money
has not merely been maintained ;
it has got out of bounds, playing
an unending game of tag with
its inseparable and doubtful
friend, inflation.
And now, another White
Paper on employment has been
published. Its analysis is un-
searching and its solutions timid
or unstated.
The double problem, though
admittedly tricky in terms of
party politics, remains: how to
reduce the number of unfilled
vacancies (at least 100,000) and
how to induce mobility of labor.
*
Budget Surmises
Among those who are close to
events, the Government’s stock
is higher. The Prime Minister
and the Chancellor are exerting
their diplomatic and conciliatory
powers on the home front. This
is to be noticed in the decision
(not applauded by the Orthodox)
of the Transport Commission to
defer increasing railway-charges
for six months and also in the
mindful approaches to the T.U.C.
and the employers’ associations.
It is evident that Eden means to
get as near as he can to the
ideal but theoretical solution —a
get-together and a pull-together.
At least, no labor troubles have
beset him. Mr. Macmillan, too,
has made public speeches a good
deal more forceful in tone than
the White Papers.
Opinion on the forthcoming
Budget is inclined to the view
that it will not be excessively
severe but of a “standstill”
nature, with emphasis on savings.
The reasoning behind this is
based on the improvement in the
gold and trade positions, the
steadiness of prices over the past
three months, and the hard fact
that we are already so heavily-
taxed that any further imposition
must needs be inflationary. An
idea is gaining ground of a tax
on chocolates and confectionery.
If the overall tax-burden is
not increased, some of the
reforms recommended two years
ago by the Royal Commission on
Taxation may be put into effect.
One result would be to exempt
more people of modest income
from direct taxation, but the main
effect would be to bring the tax-
structure up-to-date and to make
it more rational. This would
benefit the self-employed, the
middle-classes generally and the
not-so-affluent surtax-payer (the
starting-figure has remained at
£2OOO since 1918). Company-
taxation, although subject to
political stresses, is also due for
revision.
Scotch and Cyanide
One of the delights of the
theatre’s remoteness from life is
that thoughts of murder can be
turned into action. The evildoer,
committed to the spoiling of
people’s lives, can be liquidated
with clean finality and vicarious
smackipg of lips, leaving the
weak and the virtuous to happi-
ness ever after.
“Tabitha” (Duchess Theatre),
a mystery comedy by Arnold
Ridley and Mary Cathcart Borer,
rings ingenious changes on this
situation. Three old ladies, living
in shabby-genteel poverty in an
East Anglian cathedral-city,
are at the mercy of a landlady
who is a perfect so-and-so. She
J bullies them, intimidates them,
raids their locked cupboards and
(on Christmas Eve, of all times)
puts up their rent. She also—
the last straw! —poisons Tabitha,
the cat.
The dominant boarder will
have nothing less than revenge
in kind. Water from the cat’s
dish is put into a half-bottle of
whisky and locked in a cupboard.
If the landlady chooses to steal
a surreptitious nip, is it not meet
that she should suffer the con-
sequences? But the other two,
understandably apprehensive,
pour away the poisoned whisky
and substitute a sister-bottle that
has not been diluted, even with
tap-water.
The landlady has her nip and
inexplicably dies. Was there con-
fusion over the bottles, the
innocent one being emptied by
mistake? With splendid abandon,
akin to the bravado of Russian
roulette, the old ladies test the
bottle’s contents by drinking it
themselves. The consequence is
not a holocaust but stupefaction
and thick heads.
Unfortunately, the local
detective is both determined and
perspicacious, and his suspicions
fall upon the landlady’s sweet
stepdaughter (in love with the
doctor and a darling to the old
ladies). The rest is working-out.
A sequence involving the dead
perso^ s Romania, a secret
compartment in a jewel-box and,
very nearly, the accidental
poisoning of the detective, leads
to a solution which is credible
but dramatica li y tame.
The players take the difficult
situations in their stride but
otherwise are hobbled by all the
cliches of all the plays about
English cathedral-cities.
In due time, this play may well
become a favorite of Women s
Institutes. The rehearsals will be
such tremendous fun.
_ .
Second play of the classical
season a. the P Saville is a near-
triumph. Here is comedy-playing
at its finest-light, polished and
delicately poised. Author,
Sheridan. Play “The Rivals.”
Hie only blemish is an excess of
rusticity from a Bob Acres who
is a better foil than a fool. John
Clements’s choler as Sir Anthony
Absolute is the ultimate m
stylism. So is Paul Daneman’s
poignant, lack-lustre Faulkland.
Athene Seyler’s Mrs. Malaprop
successfully avoids living too
ridiculously up to her name. And
the Captain Absolute of
Laurence Harvey is the perfect
juvenile masculine, full of
character and exquisite of
manner. William Chappells un-
strained and stylish production
chuckles with wit in its own
right,


3 ri £ * s : f|.
■C_J
111
mmjim
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Officex at
TAM WORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
A MESSAGE TO COMPANY DIRECTORS...
Many Companies are now realising the advantage
of having a Share Register at Canberra.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Canberra), Ltd., is
equipped and available to act as Registered Office
for any Company desiring registration in / the
Australian Capital Territory. It will lodge all neces-
sary Returns, and if required, keep the Share Register.
Further information on the subject may be obtained
on application to the Company’s Office at Industry
House, cnr. National Circuit and Blackall Street, or to
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), 33/39 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
DIRECTORS: -
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.C.. Chairman ;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS ;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LIMITED.
Associate Directors, in addition to mentioned at left;
WARREN D. MCDONALD, Vice-Chairman; S. G. McFARLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
pORMATION of new capital assets is
one of the vital needs of a young
and expanding economy. In this respect
steel is the most important fabricated
material in modern industry. Every
sector of the economy depends upon it
to some extent, the largest users being the
engineering, construction and shipbuild-
ing trades and the railways and tramways.
Over the 5| years to November 30 last
B.H.P. and its principal subsidiary, this
Australian Iron and Steel Co., have spent
£50,000,000 —most of it at Port Kembla
—on a big programme of plant and other
expansion, including the development of
iron-ore deposits (Yampi Sound), col-
lieries, blast-furnace and open-hearth
capacity, construction of ore-carrying
ships and many ancillary services. And
the programme is not yet complete. Over
the next five years it is planned to spend
at a still higher rate.
Latest and most important development
was completion of the continuous hot-
strip mill (officially opened by the Prime
Minister on August 30, 1955), adjacent to
the Kembla steelworks. The hot-roughing
and plate-finishing sections have been in
commercial production since February,
1954. Their functions are to reduce slab-
steel .to plates measuring from 3/16in.
to 4yin. in thickness, and to supply the
finishing sections with feed for further
rolling into wide-strip steel for sheet and
tinplate purposes. The tinplate-plant,
construction of which is under way, is
expected to come into operation id a
couple of years’ time. Until a continuous
cold-strip mill has been installed by A. 1.5.,
cold-rolled sheet for processing into tin-
plate will be supplied from Lysaghts’
near-by cold-reduction mill.
Completion of the hot-strip mill marks
the beginning of a new era in steel in
Australia. Among other things, it means
that industry’s fast-growing demand for
steel in flat-rolled form —which has an
almost endless variety of uses for motor-
car and refrigerator bodies to bottle-
tops has been solved for some years
ahead. When sufficient slab-feed becomes
available, the hot-strip mill will have a
potential output of at least 1,500,000 tons
of strip per annum.
Last term the output of pig-iron and
steel-ingots rose to record levels:
Tear, Coke, Pig-iron, Steel-ingots,
Dec. 31, Tons. Tons. Tons
1951 ' .. 685,468 577,032 642,663
1952 .. 746,590 631,439 638,926
1953 .. 1,011,536 872,004 942,596
1954 .. 1,066,000 966,000 1,116,000
1955 .. 1,044,000 1,040,000 1,193,000
Continued expansion of the economy and
import-restrictions further strengthened
demand for all the co.’s products last
year ; for some lines, especially structural-
steel and light-gauge plate, the order-book
ran ahead of production. The combined
steel-ingot capacity of the Port Kembla
and Newcastle works was 1,750,000 tons
in 1949 ; today it is about 2,650,000 tons.
Over the last 28 years A.I.S. has
developed into a completely integrated
steel-works, with a capacity of 1,250,000
tons of steel per annum. And steel-ingot
capacity is to be increased by 25 p.c.
within the next two years, when new
developments in iron-ore treatment and
additional open-hearth furnaces are com-
pleted. For many years the co. has had,
and still has, a lot of money tied-up in
plant, etc., which has not developed full
earning-power, as is inevitable in this
class of business. Still, as new equip-
ment was put to work earnings responded,
as the following table shows:
( Dividends s
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Nov., Pref. 7} p.c. 2J p.c. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 550,477 75,000 275,000 200,477 2,835,837
1952.. 713,218 75,000 337,500 300,713 3,136,550
To plant replacement reserve,
£450,000 3,586,550
1953. 1,275,459 75,000 337,500 862,959 4,449,509
Tax overprovided, £750,000 ..5,199,509
To plant replacement reserve,
£300,000 5,499,509
1954. 1,587,622 75,000 337,500 1,175,122 6,674,631
To plant replacement res., £BOO,OOO 7,474,631*
6 p.c.
1955. 2,612,150 76,000 810,000 1,727,150 9,201,781
Tax underprovided, 1955, £385,000 8,816,781
•After deducting pending interim div. on pref.
shares.
The chairman says last term’s declared
profit was overstated by about £385,000,
which is the amount the extra ls.-in-the-
£ co.-tax is expected to call for. After
making this adjustment, the net figure
would be £2,227,150 (up £639,528), which
covered the pref. div. and 15.9 p.c. on the
£13,500,000 of ord. capital (all owned
by 8.H.P.) as against 11.2, 8.9, 4.7 and
4.3 p.c. back to 1951. The div. was
jacked-up from a modest 2\ p.c. to a
moderate 6 p.c., the policy being to
finance expansion substantially out of
surplus earnings.
The £2,152,150 of the year’s profit
available to the ords. was equal to 7.2
p.c., and the £BlO,OOO div. to 2.7 p.c., on
B.H.P.’s £29,962,889 of issued capital.
And A.l.S.’s declared profit is very con-
servatively stated. Last term’s figure
was written after allowing £3,495,024
(up £981,705) for depreciation— equal to
10.5 p.c. of the book-value of fixed assets
at November 30, 1955—and an extra
£BOO,OOO (up £50,000) for increased cost
of plant-replacement. After making
generous allowances for depreciation and
taxation, B.H.P.’s own profit (excluding
subsidiaries) for the year to May 31, 1955,
was £3,196,990, or 12.4 p.c. on its average
capital. The final div. was at the rate of
10 p.c. p.a., and an interim at the same rate
has been sent out for the current term.
Last year A.I.S. wiped-out its overdraft
(£1,410,058 at the previous balance),
repaid £3,277,902 of money advanced by
8.H.P., added £646,126 to stocks and
strengthened the holding of cash, etc., by
£621,461:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £14,500,000 £14,500,000 £14,500,000
Reserves .. 4,487,009 6,712,131 9,239,281
Mortgage .. 6,000,000 6,000,000 6,000,000
Overdraft .. 1,027,244 1,410,058
From B.H.P. .. 6,487,500 6,277,902 3,000,000
Sundry creditors! 9,099,837 9,924,810 12,898,126
£41,601,590 £44,824,901 £45,637,407
Fixed assets .. 32,198,250 33,078,118 32,657,320
Shares in asso-
ciate co. .. 386,497 386,497 386,497
Stocks.. .. 7,266,376 8,599,073 9,245499
Debtors .. 1,732,400 2,748,146 2,708,863
Cash, Govt, bonds 18,067 18,067 639,528
£41,601,590 £44,824,901 £45,637,407
f Includes provision for taxation.
To do all this the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. —the etcetera is an
unspecified provision for taxation and
other contingencies—rose by £2,973,316.
Rosella Preserving
/VNE of the few stocks not affected by
the rise in interest-rates in the bond-
market and the Prime Minister’s recent
announcement of an extra Is. in the £
company-tax has been Rosella’s f.-p. 10s.
shares. The price rose from 275. 3d. a
year ago to 345. 9d. in January, 1956,
and advanced to 38s. following publica-
tion of the accounts a week or so ago,
and maintenance of a steady p.c. div.
Chief reason for the sharp rise in price
is an impending issue of bonus-shares,
terms of which are yet to be announced.
Other factors are disclosure of a record
profit of £250,276 (up £62,426), strong
reserves (visibly £910,657, or £310,657 in
excess of paid capital), a sound financial
structure, and the co.’s well-entrenched
trading position. Since the present co.
was formed in 1910, there has been no
writing-up of the book-value of fixed
assets, and only one small issue of bonus-
shares—£2s,ooo in 1925.
Additional features are steady
growth of the undertaking, for
many years financed out of surplus
earnings, and a long run of good
dividends (average a shade over 11 p.c.
for the last 42 years). And, in its fight
against rising costs, the management has
installed the most modem plant and
equipment available, thus ensuring
efficient and economical production, and
so minimising the high-cost labor-content
of the products.
The gift is to be made from" a reserve
to be created by revaluation of some of
the fixed assets and/or share-premium
reserve (now £109,118). The immediate
return at 38s. is 4.6 p.c. on a 17| p.c.
div. A 6i p.c. return would call for, say,
a one-for-two bonus share-issue and a
16£ p.c. div., which would then require
£148,500, or £81,828 less profit than was
shown last term after allowing for in-
creased taxation, and would be equal to
24.8 p.c. on capital as it now stands.
The co. and its subsidiaries turn out a
wide range of high-grade jams, canned-
fruits, condiments and a variety of other
tinned foods, etc., from three factories
in Victoria, two in N. S. Wales and one
each in South Australia and Tasmania.
Of the co.’s total sales, all but about
2 p.c. is made on the steadily expanding
Australian market. Earnings are there-
fore practically unaffected by conditions
in the troublesome export sector, where
sales of Australian jams, substantial a few
years ago, have now diminished almost to
vanishing-point, and where shipments of
canned fruits are beginning to taper.
Though this has meant keener competi-
tion in home markets, the co. is well-
equipped for the struggle, as already
pointed out.
The measure of its success in the fight
is made plain in the following table:
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. -Dividends——, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1960.. 91,566 121 p.c. = 62,500 29,066 386,376
Shßre premiums, £60,000 .. .. 436,876
1961 ** 131.683 121 p.c. = 63,642 68,141 604,516
,«.„ Share Premiums, £425 .. .. 604,941
1952.. 154,089 121 p.c. = 75,000 79,089 684,030
*953.. 149,376 121 ~ „ 75,000 74,376 658,406
1954. . 188,150 171 „ ~105,000 83,150 741,656
,„„,- Tax over P rovided > £23,825 .. .. 765,381
1955. . 250,276 171 p.c. =105,000 145,276 910,667
Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,608 at Sept. 30, 1955.
Last term’s £250,276 of profit—equal
to 41.7 p.c. on capital as against 31.3,
24.9, 25.6 and 25.9 p.c. back to 1951
may not be quite as good as it looks. It
was written after allowing £55,477 (down
£1662) for depreciation and £148,685
(7s. sd. in the £) for taxation. On the
basis of the published figures, the recently
announced increase of Is. in the £ in co.-
taxation would £19,948 to last term’s
tax-bill. Allowing for this, the net figure
would be £230,328, or 38.4 p.c. on capital
as it now stands.
Finances are snug. The outside debt is
moderate and the holding of cash, etc.
(up £26,839 last term), strong:
. . Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital .. .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Reserves .. .. 658,406 741,555 910,667
Overdraft .. .. 286,059
Creditors .. 155,504 261,240 215,597
Staff fund.. .. 15,000 16,000
Tax provision .. 96,334 171,680 148,685
Final div. .. 75,000 105,000 105,000
£1,871,303 £1,894,475 £1,994,939
Property .. .. 336.798 338,324 351,303
Plant, etc. .. 134,185 183,819 212,890
Stocks .. .. 1,150,101 848,865 863,637
Debtors .. .. 219,064 211,592 228,695
Cash, etc 647 281,867 307,906
Goodwill, etc. .. 30,508 30,508 30,508
£1,871,303 £1,894,475 £1,994,939
Last term the co. was able to meet all-
round additions to assets totalling
£100,464, as well as clip £45,643 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors, out
of surplus earnings. Few traders have
been able to do better than that.
Moran & Cato, Ltd.
r T'HE effect upon equity values of the
1 rise in interest-rates in the gilt-edged
market, and addition of Is. in the £ to the
co.-tax burden, is clearly illustrated by
the fall in price of Moran and Cato’s
f.-p. 10s. shares from 235. 3d. to 18s. 6d.
over the last 12 months. At the lower
figure the return is a moderate 5.4 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div., which was more than twice
covered by last term’s net earnings. A
6i p.c. return would call for a 12 p.c.
distribution, which is a reasonable expec-
tation when expenditure in connection
with conversion of more stores to the new
self-service type is complete. Over the
last four years the div. has remained
steady at 10 p.c., and £468,563 (54 p.c.) of
declared net earnings has been sent to
reserves, which also benefited by £36,684
profit on sale of fixed assets. The lay-by
was thus lifted to £815,049, subject to
£76,669 of intangibles. Paid capital is
£1,000,000.
Established in 1876 the co. is one of the
oldest, and now the largest, grocery-chain
organisations in the Commonwealth. It
operates some 220 stores, mostly in Vic-
toria and New South Wales, with four in
Tasmania and one in South Australia.
Since the public became interested in
1950, when 223,600 new 10s. shares were
offered for subscription at a premium of
100 p.c., net earnings have averaged
£217,140 (21.7 p.c. on capital) as against
£134,544 (17.3 p.c. on capital) for the five
years to 1949.
It is an encouraging performance con-
sidering that dry-goods have always been
one of the most difficult fields in which to
win satisfactory returns. Though the
trade usually holds well in all economic
climates, competition is now keen to the
point of price-cutting, and gross margins
therefore narrow. Hence net earnings
depend largely upon the volume of turn-
over. It was to help liven sales and re-
duce overhead that the management
decided to convert some of the old-style
serve-from-behind-the-counter shops to
the new self-service type of which a dozen
are now reported to be operating success-
fully ; and more of the old units are to be
converted.
Turnover (amount not stated) increased
by £500,000 last term, and has remained
buoyant since the close of accounts. But
price-cutting further reduced margins. So,
after allowing £36,372 (up £5097) for
depreciation and £121,980 (up £5805) for
taxation, there was a slip of £1452 in the
declared net result:
July To Re- Re-
-31. Profit. (-—Dividends — x serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Stock price adjustment provision,
£30,000 313,819
Profit sale fixed assets, £10,351 .. 324,170
Tax underprovided, £229 .. .. 323,941
1952.. 281,696 10 p.c. = 100,000 131,596 456,537
Profit sale fixed assets, £11,570 .. 467,107
Tax underprovided, £3788 .. .. 468,319
1953.. 226,831 10 p.c. = 100,000 126,831 690,150
Profit sale fixed assets, £10,481 .. 600,681
1954.. 205,794 10 p.c. = 100,000 105,794 .706,425
Profit sale fixed assets, £4282 .. 710.707
1955.. 204,842 10 p.c. =lOO,OOO 104,342 816,049
* Subject to intangibles, £76,669, 31/7/’55.
On capital alone the £204,342 of profit
was 20.4 p.c. as against 20.5. 22.6 and
23.1 p.c. back to 1952. On shareholders’
net tangible funds the profit was a healthy
11.7 p.c., which suggests that, among
other things, assets are well worth their
book-value. An extra ls.‘-in-the-£ co.-tax
would reduce last term’s profit to
£188,316, or 18.8 p.c. on capital.
The co. has a sound, well-balanced
financial structure, and is untroubled by
the credit-squeeze:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1963. 1954. ' 1956.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 590,150 706,425 815,049
Creditors, etc. .. 320,579 801,918 352,036
Long-service leave 20,000 54,396 56,408
Tax provision .. 138,775 125,020 127,448
Dividends .. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
«
£2,169,504 £2,287,769 £2,450,941
Freehold .. .. 662,144 681,785 767,516
Plant .. .. 107,381 112,839 156,674
Shares other cos... 678 678 678
Stocks .. .. 838,305 922,323 1,043,868
Debtors, etc. .. 245,239 276,692 326,600
Cash, bonds .. 239,088 216,773 89,936
Goodwill .. .. 76,669 76,669 76,689
£2,169,504 £2,287,759 £2,450,941
To meet last term’s net additions of
£118,566 to premises and plant, £121,546
to stocks and £49,908 to book-debts only
£2012 was added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc. —the etcetera is
an unstated amount of provisions. The


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland's premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
In sizes ins. x 3j Ins.,
6i x 3§ and 9 Ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Price*
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Envelope Manufacture's'
Manufacturing Stationers and Printer*
804 - 806 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. 8U3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divoece.
TO BERYL HARLAND PRESTON late of
567 Glebe Road Adamstown in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that JAMES ROBERT PRESTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 954 of
1956 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 13th June 1956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
KEVIN ELLIS & PRICE, Solicitors, 10
Martin Place, Sydney*—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
LIFE ASSURANCE
Service
FOR
YEARS
'V
IP
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
•MC.IM oumd
The Metropolitan Building. Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Feuth in the
Future
I ,
I - i J
m
This is a time of the year when we in Australia
may well count our blessings.
We have just observed the great Christian
festival of Easter, with its message of Faith
supremely justified; with its crowning of a season
of sorrow in a cause for eternal joy.
Easter leaves upon us a spiritual mark. And
in the realm of material things we see around us
abundant signs of the richness in which our lives
are set; nowhere more embracingly, I believe, than
in the Sydney Royal Show, where the best of
Australian production in stock and harvest and
manufacture has been exhibited.
Of course we have our problems. They are
part of the experience of living, part of the
variations and shades that serve to show up in
clearer outline the splendors of achievement.
To see what the challenge of living can draw
from hearts and hands that are put to determined
purpose we have only to look at the magnificent
French Exhibition that adorned the Sydney Royal
Show.
As late as 1954, France was last but one
among European countries in a comparison between
current and pre-war production. The Frenchman,
his homeland ravaged by war twice in a lifetime,
was receiving an average income 30 per cent, below
that of a worker in Britain.
France launched a four-year plan to modernise
and re-equip her factories and farms. It entailed
huge investment, the spending of thousands of
millions of pounds. And now some of the first-fruits
have been put before Australian eyes in this
remarkable array of French industry.
France still has her problems. For that matter,
so has the United States —and 1955 was the most
prosperous year in America’s history, in the course
of which the U.S.A. has given generous lielp to
France and other countries.
But problems, everywhere, can be outbalanced
by the power a nation holds in the individual effort
of its people. To be able to worship and work and
give of our best to the country that means so much
to us: that also is a blessing to count.
// //cisTc^9
growth in freeholds (up £75,731)
and plant (up £42,835) mainly
reflects purchase of shops pre-
viously occupied as leaseholds,
and conversion to the new-type
stores, which have called for a
different lay-out and installation
of deep-freeze units, as well as
for a substantial addition to
stocks (up £121,545).
Bennett & Fisher (Adel.)
NEVER before has the posi-
tion of ord. shareholders in
this Adelaide wool - broking,
pastoral-finance and merchandis-
ing business been as satisfactory
as it is today, thanks to the post-
war boom in the wool trade.
For the 20 years to 1945 ord.
divs. averaged approximately 2
p.c.; and in 1932 the pref. div.
was reduced from a cumulative
7| p.c. to 4 p.c. on 150,000 £1 A
and like number of B shares,
with the right to advance with
the ords. from the lower point
to the original contract rate, plus
the privilege of participating in
any bonus share-issue. For the
decade to the close of last
accounts, distributions to the
ords. rose from p.c. in 1946
to 20 p.c. for the two years to
June 30, 1955, the average for
the period being 11.2 p.c. More-
over, at the close of last
accounts, shareholders could see
the whole of their £600,000 of
capital intact and £512,459
besides, whereas in 1946 £2865 of
the capital was unrepresented by
tangibles in the books.
Also a long run of mostly good
seasons and high prices have
enabled the co. to expand its
connections and, of course, called
for employment of more work-
ing-capital, which was provided
partly from surplus earnings
ploughed back into the business.
Now the credit-squeeze and drop
in wool-prices have greatly in-
creased the demand for assistance
from clients. So those on the
ord.-register are presently to be
offered 300,000 new £1 ords., at
par, one fdr one. At the same
time the pref. div. is to be
restored to a fixed cumulative
p.c., and the right to participate
in bonus share-issues is to be
abolished.
The market lengthened its bid
for the ords. from 465. a year
ago to 58s. 6d. at the end of
1955. After pre-Easter sales at
505., sellers recently asked
475. 9d. At the latter figure the
net price, after exercising the
rights and allowing for broker-
age, would be 345. The rights,
which would thus have a
theoretical value of 13si 6d.
(allowing for brokerage) and
might become available for less,
may prove the cheaper way of
entry into the business. The
return at 345. would be 11.7 p.c.
so long as the 20 p.c. distribu-
tion continues, or 7 p.c. on a
12 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at
21s. 3d. yield 7 p.c. Including the
new issue, net tangible cover is
£9 Bs. 3d. A and £8 Bs. 3d. B
prefs. and 375. Id. ords.
The co. handles about 14 p.c.
of the South Australian wool-
clip, does a large turnover in live-
stock, and sales of merchandise,
land, etc., contribute to earnings
too. For the year to June 30 last
there was a slip of 4.2 p.c. in the
South Australian wool-cheque,
but more bales of the staple were
handled, and quantity-turnover
of livestock increased. After
setting aside £30,469 (up £8215)
for depreciation and £102,000
(down £3000) for taxation, the
net result was £11,150 short of
the previous year’s:
t Dividends
Prefs. Re-
Jne., Profit. 7i p.c. Ordinaries, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
60..116,918 22,500 10 =30,000 116,625
’51..205,930 22,500 15 =45,000 255,055
’62..112,877 22,500 124 = 37,500 307,932
’63.. 89,811 22,600 124 = 37,500 337,743
’54..175,433 22,500 20 =60,000 430,676
’65..164,283 22,500 20 =60,000 512,459
•After deducting goodwill (£27,000),
written out of the accounts in 1961.
The £164,283 of profit covered
the pref. divs. and 47.2 p.c. on
£300,000 of ord. capital as
against 50.9, 22.4 and 30.1 p.c.
for the three preceding years.
The distribution was kept at 20
p.c., of which one-half is’called
bonus, because the board is un-
certain at what level wool-prices
will settle down in the future.
For the seven months to the end
of January, 1956, the Australian
clip fetched 8.4 p.c. less than for
the corresponding period of the
previous season. The co.’s earn-
ings for the current term will
also have to bear a heavier rate
of co.-tax. The pref. divs., plus
12 p.c. on £600,000 of ord v
capital, will call for £94,500, or
£69,783 less profit than was
shown for the year to June 30,
1955.
Expansion of the business and
the growing needs of clients sent
advances up by £352,641, and
£110,444 was added to stocks
and plant and £11,613 to free-
holds last term:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref £300,000 £300,000
Ord 300,000 300,000
Reserves .. .. 430,675 512,479
Creditors, etc. .. 1,283,451 1,367,560
Tax reserve .. 105,000 102,000
Final div. .. 60,000 56,250
£2,479,126 £2,638,269
Freeholds, etc. .. 355,411 367,024
Stocks and plant.. 257,329 867,778
Advances •. 1,059,535 1,412,176
Cash, etc, 806,851 491,296
£2,479,126 £2,638,269
To help meet the year’s outlay
£84,109 was added to the amount
coming to outsiders, and cash,
etc., was drawn upon for
£315,555.
King Island Scheelite, N.L.
Technically and finan-
cially the co. is in good shape.
Its mine, a big open-cut proposi-
tion, is on King Island, Bass
Strait, and large quantities of
overburden have to be removed
in order to get at the ore. At
October 31 last estimated ore-
reserves were 2,970,000 tons,
averaging 0.48 p.c. WO3, equal
to 11 years’ work for the mill at
last term’s rate of throughput,
and there is believed to be more
average grade stuff outside
estimated limits.
Mechanisation of the open-
cut and improvements and addi-
tions to the crushing and milling
plant have quickened throughput
and improved recoveries. But the
most important factor governing
the level of profits of recent years
has been the co.’s contracts for
sale of concentrates to the U.K.
and U.S. Governments. These
contracts were due to run out in
February, 1956, and December,
1957, respectively, but have been
extended for a further 98 days.
Their importance lies in the fact
that their floor-prices have been
well above the open-market
world price of tungsten for the
last few years. .
Last term the average price
received per unit of WO3 sold
was £A2S Bs. sd. as against
£A2S 3s. sd. for the previous
year. The Australian equivalent
of the average London price per
unit of tungsten (65 p.c. WO3)
was £AII.I, 1954, and £A15.5,
1955. The co.’s own mining,
treatment and operating costs
per unit were £8.97, 1954, and
£9.18, 1955.
The difference between the
floor and open-market prices
accounts for most of the profit
won during the last two years.
Here are the mining, milling and
financial figures:
1 Oct. 31 v
1954. 1955.
Overburden, etc., tons 896,531 1,351,420
Ore milled, tons (dry) 181,143 262,405
Head value, W 03.. 0.57 p.c. 0.51 p.c.
Concentrates, tons.. 1146.8 1894.3
Average grade, WO3 63.9 p.c. 66.3 p.c.
WO3 units produced 73,582 92,507
Profit .. .. £652,669 £1,014,661
Div.—
Kate .. .. 90 p.c. 100 p.c.
Amount .. ..£450,000 £500,000
It was the bigger throughput of
ore and outturn of more higher-
grade concentrates that put the
spring of £361,992 in last term’s
net earnings, which were equal
to 203 p.c. on the , £500,000 of
paid capital. The profit was
written after allowing £lOO,OOO
for depreciation and £249,335
for taxation. The div. was lifted
from 90 p.c. to 100 p.c., and
£250,000 was reserved for new
plant and development expendi-
ture.
'The U.K. contract will run
out during the current term, but
the one with the U.S. will remain
operative, and much will de-
pend upon the tonnage con-
nected therewith. A new bulk-
storage tank installed last term
has reduced the cost of diesel-
fuel at the mine by 50 p.c., and
savings, have been effected in
other directions, too.
Finances are comfortable. At
October 31, 1955, current assets
totalled £1,549,673, of which
£363,268 was stores, and current
liabilities amounted to £757,157,
including provision for the final
div. and taxation.
The market prices the f.-p. ss.
shares at 295. (245. a .year ago)
to return 17.2 p.c. so long as
the 100 p.c. distribution con-
tinues, or 10 p.c. on a 50 p.c.
div. basis.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
AH interest over the past week centred
on the visit of the Earl Mountbatten of
Burma and the Countess Mountbatten.
Arriving at Essendon Airport from New
Zealand, they were whisked to Govern-
ment House, where they were welcomed
by the Governor and Lady Brooks.
The visitors went on to the reception
at the Royale Ballroom, given for 1200
people by the State Government. Enter-
ing the ballroom, Earl Mountbatten was
accompanied by the Premier’s wife, Mrs.
Henry Bolte; the Premier followed,
escorting the Countess.
For the reception the Countess Mount-
batten wore a short, full-skirted frock
of deep-rose silk-.taffeta. Although the
waist was defined, it was not belted, and
the bodice was highlighted with a wide
upright fichu-collar which outlined a wide
neckline. Her hat was simply a double
twist of gold lame encrusted with pearls
and ruby sequins. Her jewels were a
diamond sunburst-brooch and a four-
stringed necklace of pearls. Mrs. Bolte’s
off-the-shoulder frock of deep-sea green
satin was matched by the bandeau on
her hair.
The dais was beautifully draped. Gold-
brocade curtains were a foil for a color-
ful replica of Victoria’s coat-of-arms.
Two regal crimson-plush armchairs had
been provided for the visitors, which,
incidentally, they didn’t occupy. In the
official party were Minister for Immigra-
tion and Labor Harold Holt and his wife
(she wearing a small berry-red pillbox-hat
with a full-length coat of matching
taffeta); Chief Secretary Arthur Rylah
and Mrs. Rylah (she in a frock of coral
jersey and matching feather-cap); the
First Naval Member, Vice-Admiral R. R.
Dowling, and Mrs. Dowlipg ; Legislative
Assembly Speaker W. J. F. McDonald
and his wife (her small white grosgrain
hat offsetting a black frock); Lord Mayor
Sir Frank Selleck and Lady Selleck;
Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring and
Lady Herring.
The day after her arrival the Countess
visited the White Ensign Club, being
welcomed by the president, Mr. Ken
Luke, Mrs. J. C. Robinson and Mrs.
J. M. Warrener. The Countess, spick-
and-span in her uniform of the St. John
Ambulance (of which she is head for
the British Commonwealth), chatted in-
formally with the 16 W.R.A.N.s who
formed the guard-of-honor. Mrs. Ken
Luke presented the Countess with a lovely
Cattleya orchid. The ladies’ committee
included Mrs. Royden Honeyman, Mrs.
S. Aarons, Mrs. Lou Green and Mrs. G.
Cox. Second-Officer Joan Hodson
(W.R.A.N.S.) was assigned as private-
secretary to the Countess for her visits to
Nowra, Sydney and Canberra.
Back at Government House, the
Countess Mountbatten met 140 women,
all representatives of women’s work.
Presidents of the large hospitals present
were Dame Mabel Brookes, Lady
Murdoch, Mrs. Roy Chambers, Mrs.
Lytton Stephens, Mrs. L. R. Buxton and
Mrs. W. K. Burnside. Also in the official
party were Mrs. Henry Bolte and Mrs.
R. R. Dowling. After congratulating the
women on their work, the Countess shook
hands with them all, but when she came
to Miss A. M. Sage, former Matron-in-
Chief of the R.A.A.N.S., there were two
outstretched hands of fond embrace.
There was a brief visit to the Victorian
branch of the Australian Red Cross
Society, where the Countess was welcomed
by the society’s vice-president (Sir John
Latham), the chairman (Sir Peter McCal-
lum), Colonel Allan Spowers (chairman
of the Victorian branch), and its deputy-
chairman (Mrs. Eccles McKay). After a
buffet-luncheon, during which she met
the youngest junior Red Cross president,
Diane Jenkins, of Ringwood High School,
the Countess met a host of women work-
ing for Red Cross, among them Dame
Mary Daly, Mrs. G. C. Scantlebury,
Mrs. R. T- A. McDonald and Dr. Lucy
Bryce.
At Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital
the Countess, her energy showing no
signs of flagging, talked with many ex-
servicemen and ex-servicewomen. Here
she was received by Matron E. Hanrahan.
Medical Superintendent Dr. H. Gibb and
Chairman of the Repatriation Commis-
sion Major-General G. F. Wootton. She
also met, for the third time, Sister Vivian
Bulwinkel, who is deputy-matron ; when
they first met Vivian* had just come out
of a p.-0.-w. camp.
A late-aftemoon party was next on the
list, and here Countess Mountbatten met
officials of the Save the Children Fund.
She wore a frock of silk brocade pat-'
terned in copper, orange, bronze and
black. Skirt-fullness was achieved by
inverted pleats, and the fitted bodice
featured a V-neckline, tiny roll-collar and
long sleeves. Her close-fitting hat was of
black feathers.
At the reception at the University’s
Union House, which was sponsored by
organisations of the Council of British
Empire Societies, the Countess was
greeted by Mr. F. G. Menzies, chairman
of the council, and Mrs. Menzies. An
informal guard-of-honor was formed by
students.
Noted at the civic reception given by
Lord Mayor Sir Frank Selleck and the
Lady Mayoress to the Earl and Countess:
Mrs. James McGauran’s pale-cinnamon
wool jacket-suit and tiny matching hat;
Mrs. Norman Bennett’s black suit, with
its lapels trimmed with bobble-braid;
and Mrs. Lionel Newton’s fitted navy
taffeta coat and white melusine pillbox-
hat embroidered in rhinestones.
Mary Murdoch, who will be soloist
with the Astra Orchestra at its opening
concert on April 27, is the daughter of
former Australian pianist William Mur-
doch, and is chief oboist of Sydney
Symphony Orchestra, having been
brought from England by the A.B.C. on
the recommendation of Lady Barbirolli,
under whom she studied. Still in her early
twenties, Mary played with the Liverpool
Philharmonic Orchestra for three years,
she has broadcast for the B.B.C., made
many recordings, and has appeared in
television. A t present she is on the teach-
ing-staff of Sydney Conservatorium.
Photo by Denis de Marney (London).
Mrs. John Dynon is president of the
ball being organised by the Loreto Old
Girls’ Association, and due at the Royale
Ballroom on April 27. Proceeds will go
to the Loreto Free Kindergarten, South
Melbourne. The color-scheme will be
white, gold and cerise, and tables will be
decorated with sprays of cerise and gold
artificial peony roses. The 22 debutantes,
who will wear white gowns of individual
designs, will include 19 from Mandeville
Hall and three from Mary’s Mount,
Ballarat. Mrs. G. C. Molyneux and Miss
M. Parer will train the debsT Tickets—
£3 10s. a double—may be obtaihed froriP
Mrs. Peter Grigsby (LF7090), Miss V.
Skehan (BJ1731), Mrs. L. Smith (Haw.
3914) and Mrs. J. Winter (BY1986). Mrs.
Frank Hill of Bendigo (whose daughter
Judith, now an undergrad, at the Uni-
versity, will give a pre-ball party), and
Mrs. F. Ryan (whose daughter Mary
is a debutante) will each hostess a party
before going to the ball.
* ☆ ☆
Jennifer Jane Beveridge, daughter of
Mrs. Robert Horne, of Toorak, was
married in London to Dr. Bruce Stocker.
Reception was given by Mrs. Horne’s
cousins, Dr. and Mrs. M. L. Creightmore,
of Brockley, North Hants. Jane is a
graduate of Melbourne University, where
she obtained a B.Sc. Her husband,
second son of Colonel and Mrs. D. H.
Stocker, of Wellington, New Zealand, is
a Director of Research at the Lister
Institute of Preventive Medicine, London.
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Keast have issued
invitations to the marriage of their
daughter Joan Beryl with John Dunn
Campbell, to take place at the Church of
Our Lady of Good Counsel, Deepdene,
on April 24. After the ceremony Mr.
and Mrs. Keast will give a reception at
their Balwyn home.
SYDNEY
Bright sunshine and that slight tang in
the air which hallmark Sydney’s autumn
have at last arrived on the scene, and,
because of them, the climate’s really bad
behavior in the recent past has been
forgiven.
* V V
The Easter Show finished its very suc-
cessful run, having enjoyed good weather
practically all the time, yet having col-
lected £17,000 in rain-insurance because
of one downfall. People rushed to buy
the fruit and vegetables that had been on
display in the District Exhibits Hall,
apples at 6d. each, pineapples at 2s. and
35., bananas at 2d. each —prices that do
not seem high for first-quality fruit com-
pared with the retail price.
Parties included the Union Club’s cock-
tail “do” on Randwick’s Ladies’ Day,
with a striped marquee extending from
the south side of the club-building to
accommodate 800 guests. Gardenias
decorated the celebrated staircase, not
only looking beautiful but filling the air
with scent also. At this party Mr. D. B.
Lewington received the guests.
Then, on the one night, the Country
Matrons (all from* northern districts, one
notices) gave their dinner at Prince’s,
while the Royal Sydney Golf Club held
its first Members and Friends’ night
(which replaced the Matrons’ Ball for this
year), and at the Trocadero the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress were guests-
of-honor at the St. Vincent’s Hospital
Nurses’ Annual Easter Ball.
Jennifer Human, whose coming-out
dance at the Australia on Easter Saturday
was one of the brightest young-people’s
events of the Easter season, is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Human
(Vaucluse) and the granddaughter of
Lady Walder. Also making her debut at
this party was Gillian Windeyer, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Tom Windeyer, of Meth-
alibah, Trangie; of the 250 guests present
nearly half were country people down for
the Show. Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
An air of gaiety characterised the
luncheon given by the Royal Empire
Society for Sir Ragnar Hyne, Chief
Justice of Fiji, and Lady Hyne—both
guests-of-honor endowed with wit and
warmth of personality. Among those pre-
sent was Mrs. Ada Hancock, who is Lady
Hyne’s aunt, and who added a good deal
to the sparkle of the conversation, though
she claimed to be “the oldest person
present,” being 89 this year. Mr. David
Condon, of the U.K. Information Service,
proved to be a fund of information about
the Indian statuette of gilded bronze
representing the god Shiva, which had
been presented to the society by General
Cariappa before he left for India on
Saturday. Mr. Condon was accompanied
by his daughter Ann, who later in the year
leaves for England, where she will marry
Lieut. John Walter, D.S.C., in August.
☆ ☆ ☆
*
Ladies’ Day at Randwick confirmed
the “top-heavy” look as important for
1956. A few of the new hats are wide and
woolly, but most depend upon chunki-
ness of crown and smallness of brim for
effect. Most important is that they should
be worn straight on the head and well
forward. They are not really becoming
(although some have good “concealment-
value”), but somehow those who wore
them with straight, simple dresses
managed to make their more conservative
friends privately resolve to invest in a
“bell” or a “bucket” as soon as possible.
tf. if.
The wedding of Grace Kelly and Prince
Rainier is so much the topic of the day
that Mrs. Jan Sopoushek’s talk to the
Garden Club on the exotic gardens of
Monaco during the week was of special
interest. Mrs. Sopoushek (who is writer
Gladys Lister) described the gardens as a
wonderland where cacti of every shape
and size grow from stones, splashing the
scene with red and orange flowers. One
of the points that seemed to be of greatest
interest to the audience was the informa-
tion that Prince Rainier is a lion-tamer!
Mrs. Arthur Davis presided at the meet-
ing, and Mrs. E. G. Waterhouse moved
a vote of thanks.
* * *
Scots wha ha’en’t as yet secured their
tickets for the Scots College ball at the
Trocadero on Friday, April 20, may get
them from either Mr. R. S. Rankine, at
the College; Mrs. A. A. Roper, Rose
Bay ; Miss B. Still, Bellevue Hill; Mr. G.
Tomlinson, at the Preparatory School, or
the hon. secretary of the 0.8. U.
(8U2291). Debs, are to be presented this
year to Air-Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters;
proceeds go to the College War Memorial
Fund.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Lawson Society is donating a pew
to the Memorial Church at Alice Springs;
the church, of course, will honor the
memory of Flynn of the Inland, the late
Rev. John Flynn, loved and esteemed
throughout the Commonwealth as a far-
sighted humanitarian. No plaques are to
be attached to the pews that have been
donated, but a special book, to be placed
in the church as a permanent record, will
contain the names of the donors to this
memorial.
# V V
The Guys and Dolls Bali at the
Empress Ballroom, Mark Foy’s, tonight
(Wednesday), will feature the five
Goldwyn Girls who appear in the film
“Guys and Dolls.” The ball has been
arranged by the younger-set working for
the Society for Crippled Children, which
will receive the proceeds.
☆ * *
Don’t tidy-out that cupboard just yet.
Wait until May 5 and let a Girl Guide do
it for you as part of the Willing-Shiiling
Drive. The girls, during the week May 5
to May 12, will do any odd-job about the
house, run messages, change books, wash
the pup, clean the brass, etc., for what-
ever the householder thinks the work is
worth, though not, of course, less than a
shilling. The idea is for the girls to earn
what they collect, and the funds will be
used for the various excellent Girl Guide
projects. '
* * *
An international contest which should
be of interest to Australian women has
been arranged by the National Council of
Women of the United States. It is one
for women composers, the classification
a choral work for women’s voices,
a capella or with piano-accompaniment,
duration not more than six minutes. The
closing date is September 1, 1956, and
the prize is 200 dollars. Official entry-
sheets, with details of the contest, can
be obtained from Mrs. H. Btpokes,
N.C.W., Elizabeth House, Little Collins-
street, Melbourne.
☆ ☆ ☆
Overheard at a cocktail-party: “There’s
nothing wrong with the Weather Bureau;
it’s the weather itself that won’t conform.”
☆ ☆ ☆
“Mr. and Mrs.,” the new revue open-
ing at the Phillip-street Theatre on
April 11, features four married couples
as its stars. In honor of this, the direc-
tors are inviting any married couples
having their wedding-anniversary to
Monday-night performances beginning on
April 16. They are invited to phone the
theatre’s business-manager, who will
arrange two complimentary tickets for
them.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN CHARLES FINN late of
Bingara.—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS
JUANITA FINN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 519 of 1956 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Register Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th of June
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
r
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH AND
LAUNCESTON
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Wirths’
Making its customary visit to
Wirths’ Circus at Sydney’s Prince
Alfred Park, The Bulletin was,
as usual, fascinated by the
intelligence and skill with which
the lions, elephants and horses
went through their acts; de-
lighted by the antics of the
clowns, and held breathless by
the skill and dexterity of the
dozen or more performers who
nightly risk their necks in the
cause of entertainment.
These include Bernardi, who
performs hair-raising balancing-
feats on a swinging trapeze ; the
Harstons, who project themselves
into the air from springboards
with a determined vigor that
suggests they must be trying to
break their necks ; the Merinos,
who do on roller-skates in a few
square-feet what no sane person
would attempt in an acre-
paddock ; and the Three Altons,
who balance head-to-head with
such agility that they begin to
look like Siamese twins.
There are also Andy and
Adrian, who suspend each other
with contrivances gripped
between their teeth; Marjorie
Cordell, who swings about in
space with such grace that she
is justly billed as “The Ballerina
of the Air”; the Albertos, who
balance, dance and jump through
hoops in a way that would be
remarkable enough even if they
didn’t do it' all on a tightrope;
the Kempinskis (one of whom
balances a gleaming 20ft. pole
while the other whirls around on
top of it like a catherine-wheel
gone mad); and the Flying
Viennas, who project themselves
through space into each other’s
hands with a casual artistry that
belies the work and effort
behind it.
Such is the grace and skill of
all these people, in fact, that it
is easy to overlook the fact that
they are often enough risking
their necks, just as it is easy to
overlook the immense amount of
patient and painstaking practice
that has gone into every act.
Curious, The Bulletin asked
Joseph Geiger how long it had
taken to perfect some of his
juggling-routines. Mr. Geiger
couldn’t really tell, but he did,
in his quiet Way, admit to even
more interesting things—how he
began with circus-life in Silesia at
the age of 12. He was a con-
tortionist at first, some juggling,
too, and then the trapeze. This
last interest led him to apply
for a part with Carl Wallenda’s
act in the mistaken belief that it
was trapeze work.
When Geiger turned-up for an
audition he found that Wallenda
was the son of the trapeze family,
but was himself more interested
in wire - walking, something
Geiger had never tried. Wallenda
and the manager of the theatre
where the audition was held
settled down to laugh at Geiger’s
first attempts on the wire, but,
surprisingly, he made it, there
and back, and then again.
The Wallendas, it should be
noted, became one of the greatest
of the wire-walking teams. They
began, Geiger with them, with
two of them walking the wire
with a pole suspended between
them from their shoulders. A
third performer balanced on the
pole. Later a chair was balanced
on the pole and the third per-
former stood on the chair. Later
a fourth member stood on the
shoulders of the third and the
whole precarious tableau edged
its way across the wire.
Having seen photographs of
this amazing spectacle, The
Bulletin suggested to Mr.
Geiger that it must have been
the most spectacular of all wire-
walking acts. He smiled at such
innocence. “Once they had seen
the act in Madison Square
Garden,” he said, “we had to
give them something new. Next
time, the two men on the wire
rode bicycles.”
Later the act became even
more amazing. This time four
men walked on the wire. The
front pair had a pole between
them; likewise the back pair.
On each pole stood another man,
making a second tier. Between
these two there was another
pole. On this pole balanced a
seventh performer!
Returning to the original
question, The Bulletin asked
Mr. Geiger how long it had
taken, say, to introduce the chair
when the act only consisted of
three people. “We'd bring the
wire down close to the ground,”
he said, “and then try the act
about five times. Then rest for
a while; then try it again. We
might do that for days, weeks,
months. Then we might have it
right. Then we would do it 100
times and, if we didn’t make a
mistake, we’d try it on the high
wire.”
Mrs. Geiger, who turned out
to be Marjorie Cordell, “The
Ballerina of the Air,” is an
attractive young American girl
who studied ballet-dancing at
the Metropolitan and gave it up
for circus. In her case, too, there
is a similar story —two or three
years, not only of patient prac-
tice but also of physical effort to
develop the necessary shoulder-
strength for her aerial act. She
fell once, breaking her back —
though, watching her confident
grace as she swings above the
audience, one would never dream
that such things had ever entered
her life.
And so, presumably, it is with
all circus-performers a life-
time of practice ; with some of
them, like Rastelli the great
juggler, finding a lifetime not
enough to perfect the acts they
conceived. And that, no doubt,
is what makes their acts the
“death-defying spectacles” they
are.
* *
Franquin
Franquin, back at Sydney
Empire, is once again providing
excellent entertainment with his
feats of memory, mesmerism and
hypnotism ; despite a couple of
broken ribs and general shock
from a very recent accident, he
has lost none of his remarkable
power to control and direct 140
audience-volunteers with effi-
ciency and humor.
A certain indistinctness in his
microphones detracted some-
what from the second half of the
programme, where his hypno-
tised subjects go on safari
through darkest Africa and
imagine themselves beset by
every kind of danger , from
climate, man and beast.
The house was in an uproar of
excitement and laughter —defi-
nitely the best appraisal of the
show’s entertainment-value.
Kurt Woess
After only a rortmght’s
acquaintance with the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra, Kurt
Woess, the new resident-con-
ductor, bravely opened the 1956
harmonious season at the Town
Hall with a programme which
moved sometimes briskly and
sometimes slowly through
Brahms’s Varations on a Theme
by Haydn, Beethoven’s Seventh,
and the Ninth of Shostakovich,
the Soviet composer.
If the playing under the new
conductor didn’t rise to as great
heights as expected, it didn’t
sink below the level of
thoroughly competent direction,
and if the orchestra wasn’t
always as excited as the con-
ductor, that might be explained
by the briefness of their acquain-
tance.
The best performance of the
evening was that given to
Shostakovich’s opus. If Shosta’s
symphony hasn’t great depths it
has some glittering shallows, and
id the second movement the
lights and shadows shimmered
nicely.
♦!« ♦I"
Lambie Songs
Professor Charles Lambie, who
holds the Bosche Chair of
Medicine at Sydney University,
is a composer whose gifts deserve
wide recognition. His writings
for the piano include an attrac-
tive sonata, but it is in the field of
the song that he achieves his best.
Many of his songs reflect the
scenes of his native Scotland and
of the outer Hebrides; these he
has invested with a strong Celtic
flavor and an invigorating atmo-
sphere, with a strong tang of
salt in them.
In different genre are his
settings of some of the poems of
Rabindranath Tagore, of whom
he has been a lifelong admirer,
and whose house he once
occupied while in India. These
songs were given at a musicale
at Newington College on Friday
night.
Professor Lambie has captured
the essence of Tagore’s spiritual
poems. The melodic lines for
the voice are fine-drawn, varied
and beautiful, and the accom-
paniments use subtlety and quiet
harmonies to excellent effect —
purely Occidental music happily
wedded to Eastern thought.
Mezzo-contralto Mary Blake
sang these songs with warmth of
expression and in rich tone, and
the accompaniments were taste-
fully played by Annette Erskine-
Smith.
❖ *
“Volpone”
Ben Jonson is so rarely
played these days that it was
worth going abroad on a damp
Saturday evening to see what
Sydney’s W.E.A. Players were
doing with his “Volpone” at their
Attic Theatre.
Paul Herlinger, who produced
the play and took the main role
himself, went after both tasks
in the right spirit, and it was a
lack of means, rather than of
knowledge or intention, that let
him down. While his Volpone
revelled and wallowed in his
own quick-witted avarice, he
never quite rose to the lusty,
spanking vitality of the character.
It was still a good performance,
however —good enough to make
one feel slightly guilty about
putting the screws on for some-
thing even better.
From the production angle,
Herlinger didn’t have at his dis-
posal anything like the talent
or the space he needed to put
over the full Elizabethan gusto
of the comedy. He was well-
served by John Houston’s Mosca
—a mercurial and stylish per-
formance —but the other vultures
who hover with hope and gifts
around Vol pone’s supposed
deathbed were much less at ease.
Lionel J. Pearcey’s Voltore
mustered the most conviction.
There was a little too much of
the 20th century about Jean
Ross’s Celia, but she made a
very pretty and appealing busi-
ness of her pleas and panic
when her husband offered her up
as his last desperate bribe to
Volpone. Nina Anderberg’s
effusiveness as Lady Politick
Would-be was only too convinc-
ing and she did it with commend,
able flourish.
Touching on Sir Politick and
his Lady, by eliminating these
roles Herlinger could streamline
his production considerably,
accommodate it much better to
his small stage and lose little, if
anything, of the essence of the
comedy. He might also consider
dropping the clown and dwarf —
graceful enough decorations for
a large-scale production, but
difficulties in a small one.
Artbursts
New Australians
Three New Australians have
been exhibiting at Sydney Bis-
sietta Gallery: Ratas, a wood-
engraver from Lithuania; Jan
van Riel, a watercolorist, and
Anton Murre, a sculptor, both
from Holland. All offer amiable
wares, but without distinction,
except perhaps in Van Riel’s
light, loose travel-impressions,
which, so to speak, are arrows
fired into the air that might
some day land somewhere.
♦>
The New Wilson
The neW Wilson Hall at
Melbourne University was
opened with traditional cere-
mony. To the booming of the
organ, a long file of dons in
gorgeous raiment slowly paced
up the immense hall towards the
dais, which is surmounted by a
towering mural representing
humanity struggling out of the
primitive bog of ignorance and
despair towards the light of
knowledge. The entire student-
population of the University of
Melbourne gaped at them
through the 5000 square-feet of
Belgian heat-resisting glass of
the enormous windows pillared
with black Italian marble.
The old Wilson Hall was 140 ft.
long and 45ft. high, and the apex
of the roof was 82ft., above
which the gable rose 14ft. higher.
The outer walls were built of
Hawkesbury sandstone and
Oamaru limestone; the interior
was decorated with oak panel-
ling, and there was a magnificent
hammer-beam ceiling.
The new hall is panelled in
Swedish birch, specially treated
for acoustics and fire-resistance,
and this beautiful material
covers one-third of an acre. The
style of the old hall was Tudor
perpendicular, and although it
was only a relatively good
example it could be described as
dignified, beautiful, elegant and
spacious. The only one of these
adjectives that could be accu-
rately applied to the new hall
is the last one.
It is 170 ft. long, 63ft. wide and
48jft. high, and it has seating-
accommodation for 1500. The
old hall could accommodate only
1100, but at least they didn’t have
to look at 40ft. of anatomical
inaccuracies sprawling over the
north wall or, feeling like
denizens of an aquarium, be
subject to the scrutiny of
thousands of students.
As noted, the style of the old
hall was Tudor ; the shape of the
new hall is butterbox or kero-
sene-case. Although the materials
used could not have been better,
the decorations and interior fit-
tings suggest a grossly-enlarged
modern bathroom in a housing-
commission villa-. The quality of
the carving of the old hall was
not as good as the great examples
of the Gothic, but it was an
honest attempt to fulfil a great
tradition. The inspiration for
the new hall seems to have been
some magazine of the “dream-
home” genus. Stuck on to the
end of the beautiful old Gothic
cloisters adjoining, it looks as
appropriate as a tophat on a
naked savage.
On the exterior north wall
there is to be a bas-relief symbol-
ising the trial of Socrates. If the
sculptor has the spirit of fun in
him he will make the accusers,
the judges and the executioners
of the revered philosopher in the
likenesses of the professors who
sent the living windows and
arches and corbels of the old
Wilson Hall to the Melbourne
tip and replaced them with this
dead thing.
MERVYN SKIPPER.
Talkies
“Battle-Cry” (Sydney Plaza):
The Marine colonel who is a
sentimentalist at heart, and the
top-sergeant who talks in stac-
cato barks and is tougher than
crocodile-skin, are essentials in
any Hollywood film about the
Leathernecks. The pair are
trotted-out once again in this
routine tale of training and
blood-bathing on Jap-held
beaches Van Heflin is the
colonel and James Whitmore the
top-sarge. Incidental barrack-
scenes are lively and have a fair
quota of humor, qpd the battle-
scenes carry- a good deal of
realism. The film’s chief weak-
ness lies in the oversentimental-
ised love-affairs suffered by the
swaddies.
“The New Explorers” (Sydney
St. James): An excellent docu-
mentary made by the British
Petroleum Co., this whisks the
viewer from the arid Persian
Gulf country to the sea off
Trinidad, from test-drilling in
Sicily to a geological survey in
Canada. It also gives an interest-
ing account of the search for oil
in the swamps and jungles of
Papua. There are no obscure
technicalities and the film has
been photographed with an eye
to beauty as well as information.


alfred
by E.O.Schlinke
READING in my daily-
newspaper a report of an
anthropological party
discovering in Central
Australia a previously-unknown
tribe of aborigines with lighter-
colored skins, features resem-
bling those of the Caucasian
race, and a language with many
departures from the speech of
other Australian tribes, I said
rather facetiously to my wife:
“Little Alfred might have
been responsible for that.”
Had I been a true product of
my environment I should not
have spoken of the legendary
Alfred in that manner. Alfred
was to the children of my com-
munity what George Washing-
ton has been to the boys and
girls of the U.S.A., only Alfred
was much more versatile than
George ; not only did he never
tell a lie, he hever committed
any other sort of sin ; and, more
disturbing still, he was so
inherently innocent that he
could immediately detect sinful
thoughts or a guilty conscience
in others.
Alfred, so the story went, was
the small son of a German
Lutheran pastor who came to
Australia in the 1850’s to serve
a small pioneering community
of settlers of similar origin. The
son of saintly parents, Alfred
was, at the age of nine, a model
for all the children of the
settlement. Then both his
parents were killed in a lament-
able accident, and soon after-
wards Alfred was stolen by a
wandering tribe of aborigines.
According to others, he went
voluntarily in order to convert
them to his own religion, and
was never seen again.
I would have thought no
more of the newspaper-report if
I hadn’t happened to meet the
discoverer of the new tribe when
on a visit to Sydney. He was
good enough to show me his
photographs and to let me read
his notes on the tribal vocabu-
lary. I felt it desirable to
suggest to him that many of the
words which had mystified him
seemed to derive from the
German language. He found
this rather upsetting.
Since it is now unlikely that
he will publish the monograph
he had been preparing, I have
arrived at the conclusion that it
would be in the interest of the
newspaper - reading public to
make known to them the facts in
my possession; both the legend
recorded above, and the other
version as told to me by a very
remarkable character, my boy-
hood friend, Gus Lindner.
T CALL him my friend, though
at the time I speak of I was
a boy of fifteen and he a
battered veteran of at least sixty-
five. He was regarded unfavor-
ably by most of our community,
because not only did he never
go to church but he was reputed
to have committed some
mysterious sin in the past, too
dreadful for any of us
youngsters to be told about.
He had a brother, Harry, who
had been involved in the same
incident, but since Harry had
later become a fabulously pros-
perous dealer in farm-produce,
able to make or ruin any of the
local farming-community, it was
considered politic to treat him
with considerable respect.
Although Gus was a suspect
character, he was employed
regularly by my father each
harvest—because he was an out-
standingly good haystack-
builder, and despite warnings
from the pastor and the Elders
that he that toucheth pitch shall
be defiled.
I used to be up on the hay-
stack acting as sheaf-turner
while my father and big brothers
sweated down below, pitching
up the hay from their wagons.
It was when the stack became
so high as to exclude the hay-
pitchers from his conversation,
that Gus’s stories became most
enthralling to me.
My mother, I know, used to
object to my being exposed to
this danger, but my father,
despite the concern he must have
felt about my spiritual well-
being, had two good reasons for
leaving me with Gus ; the first
being the considerate one that
the other jobs would have been
too strenuous for my immature
frame, and the other, that he
cherished a hope that I, being
considered bright, would learn
the art of haystack-building
from Gus, and so dispense with
the need of hiring so expensive
a man annually.
But Gus’s stories took my
mind off the difficult art of
haystack-building, despite the
fact that each time I went up
the ladder my father reminded
me of what he expected of me.
“Now, don’t forget to watch
him all the tim.e. And ask him
questions, too. Ask him why he
does everything. That’s the
only way to learn to build a
haystack.”
Perhaps my father really
thought, when he heard Gus’s
voice going continually on and
on, that it was him telling me
how to make a stack, and he
may have been thinking, grati-
fiedly, of how soon he would be
able to save the pound-a-day he
paid Gus for several weeks each
year.
The fact was, I was too
enchanted with Gus to even
think about hay. I thought he
was a wonderful fellow; so.
marvellously entertaining com-
pared with the consciously-
virtuous and over - religious
people of our community who
were virtually the only people I
really knew. The fact that most
of his stories made sly fun of
. our earnest people made them
all the more fascinating to me.
Thinking about him now, I
realise that his speech must have
had a lot of oddities ; probably
a distinct German accent, for he
was a first-generation Austra-
lian, and in many of the isolated
communities the accent was still
noticeable in the second genera-
tion of Australian-born. No
doubt, too, he employed some of
those literally translated phrases
like “It makes me no differ-
ence.” But, since everyone I
knew spoke in more-or-less the
same manner, it sounded correct
to me; so if I now tried to
render his version in broken-
English, it would savor of
smugness.
It was because I had happened
to mention the legendary Alfred
that he volunteered to tell me
the true story about him.
“And then you’ll know why
I’m the big, bad bogyman,
too,” he said with a grin.
I couldn’t have hoped for
anything more exciting.
“It was back in the old days
when I Was a boy of about ten
years old,” said Gus. “It was
in South Australia before any
of our people came to New
South Wales.” (I remember now
that he always called the two
States “South Oss” and “Noo
South.”) “It was in a wild and
lonely place, getting up towards
the desert-country, where we
had a hard battle to make a
living, and the aborigines were
still hanging around as if they
were convinced that we’d soon
give up and let them have their
country back again.”
A LFRED’S parents, Gus
Lindner said, came there
straight from Germany; not
like the old pastor they’d had
before him, who’d roughed it
with the rest of the people, and
been quite useful in helping in
their dealings with the
Government.
No (so ran Gus’s story),
Alfred’s father was what we’d
call nowadays a real Pommy, a
German Pommy. He just didn’t
know a thing about this
country. He was very strong on
religion, but weak on common
sense. For instance, whenever
he met a party of aborigines he’d
give them a sermon in German,
and if anyone pointed out to him
that they didn’t understand the
language, he’d answer that if
God wanted them to be con-
verted He’d find a way of
making them understand
German.
Another thing that was funny
about him was his politeness;
he was always full of highfalutin
greetings, bowing to left and
right, and with his hat in his
hand as often as it was on his
head. He never woke-up to it
that carrying on like that made
people stare at him ; but, then,
he never seemed to realise that
he’d come to a new country with
a lot of different conditions.
Even in his sermons in church
he seemed to think he was still
in some other sort of place.
I suppose that our community
was as decent, and honest, and
hard-working a bunch of people
as you could ever see anywhere,
but the way he used to rave
about the lusts of the flesh,
you’d think that every second
house was a brothel. Of course,
every now and then a lively
young fellow might get his girl
into trouble, but he’d always
marry her right away, and soon
they’d be as respectable as all
the others.
Sometimes a couple of
families would have a squabble,
but the way he went on pleading
for more brotherly love you’d
think they were all trying to
cut each other’s throats. And
another thing he was very hot
about was what he called the
“greed for Mammon” or the
“love of filthy lucre,” which
seemed pretty tough when the
settlers were having a terrible
struggle to pay for their land
while it still had to be cleared,
fenced and brought under
cultivation.
Still, most of the people
didn’t hold it against him. They
thought he was a wonderful
preacher because he put so
much “feeling” into it; often
(said Gus) I saw them stumbling
out of church quite dazed, after
putting twice as much on the
collection - plate as they’d
intended, because they couldn’t
see properly for the tears in
their eyes. That was in the days
when I still wept to church,
because my parems made me go.
The community thought his
wife was wonderful, too,
because she was so gentle and
refined; she’d never milked a
cow in her life; in fact, she'
hardly knew where milk came
from. And the little boy Alfred
was just what you’d expect,
having parents like that; but
they all thought he was wonder-
ful, too, especially the women.
They used to crowd round him
and talk to him in silly, buttery
voices, and squeak to each other
in surprise every time he said
or did something. At home it
was “Alfred does this” and
“Alfred did that” ;. how polite
he was, how good, how well-
behaved, how kind and consider-
ate to his parents, how obedient;
and then he went and caused the
famous accident.
JUST exactly how it happened,
and whether or not it was
Alfred’s fault, and, if it was
his fault, whether he could be
blamed or not, were things the
people never decided to their
own satisfaction, though (said
Gps) my brother Harry and I
tried hard enough to tell them
the truth. ITiey talked
about hardly anything
else for months; and
for years tljey were
always likely to start
it up again. In fact,
although it happened so
long ago, if you went
back to that place now,
I’d bet that you’d find
someone still talking
about it.
The accident might
never have happened if
the parson had known
how to handle horses.
They gave him the
buggy-and-pair the old pastor
had had, and those horses
were so quiet, on account of
the old man being just about
ready to drop dead with
old age during the last few
years he’d used them, that every-
body reckoned you couldn’t
make them misbehave.
But Alfred’s father could. He
was so nervous of horses that
they couldn’t help noticing it,
and that made them nervous,
too. My brother Harry and I
used to sneak through the bush
to watch him harnessing them
to his buggy; we never saw a
circus in those days, but that
was just as good as one. It took
him anything from an hour to
half-a-day.
And even when he’d got them
into the buggy the circus wasn’t
over. He had to get his wife
into the buggy without damag-
ing her, and we’d nearly burst
ourselves to see them coming
towards the buggy on the tips
of their toes, though the horses
were tied-up to a post with
strong ropes ; eyes fastened fear-
fully on that quiet pair of nags
while they got her foot on to
the step; ready to jump back
to safety if a horse so much as
lifted a hoof, or twitched its
ear at a fly.
Then they had to get Alfred
into the buggy without risking
his life. They acted as though
he was a one-year-old baby.
The father held him up in his
arms, and the mother reached
out for him; then, just at the
right moment, when the horses
seemed to be behaving perfectly,
they’d fling him in.
But it was the gates that
bothered them most, and it was
at a gate that the accident
happened. Opening gates was
nothing to the rest of us. Other
boys of Alfred’s age took a
great pride in jumping out of
the buggy before it had stopped,
having the gate opened before
the horses reached it, shutting
it and clambering up the back
of the buggy as it started away
again, so that practically no time
was lost.
But when Alfred’s family
reached a gate it took them up
to half-an-hour to get through
it. First the parson stopped the
horses about a chain away from
the gate for fear he’d crash into
it; then he’d get out of the
buggy and lead the horses to
the fence beside the gate, taking
great care that they didn’t step
on his heels ; he’d tie them up
carefully to the fence; then
open the gate, which alwa\ s
took him a long time because
he didn’t seem able to under-
stand * the simplest kind or
fastening ; then untie the horses,
lead them through the gate, tie


BY APPOtNTMfBT
TO WR MAJfSTY TW ffUff*
'WRVTYORS Of MOTOR IWWCAMTI
ttWAKffiail I CO. ITO. UJNOOK Wl
oil
tAoro*
riwufiw
for
(S)iwlit
cl
y
c
>{OV)
s#
t o^
them up again on the other side
of the fence, shut the gate, untie
the horses again (sometimes
having the greatest trouble in
undoing his own knots), lead
the horses on to the track, get
into the buggy, and drive off.
And all the time this was going
on, his wife and Alfred weren’t
allowed to breathe for fear the
horses would “give trouble.”
Well, it’s a funny thing ; the
congregation could put up with
him calling them filthy sinners,
and making them hand-over
their hard-earned cash that they
needed so badly to improve their
farms, but they couldn’t stand
having him make fools of them
by behaving that way over a
gate. The elders told him quite
pointedly that it was bad for
the congregation, and that
Alfred should be made to open
the gates like any other boy of
his age.
The mother cried, and the
father grumbled, but they gave
in and made Alfred learn to
open gates.
Alfred was very upset, and
that worried,, his mother.
“The poor little boy,” she told
some of the other women ; “he
gets so stirred-up inside. He
doesn’t understand why we have
to make him do something he’s
afraid of.”
Anyhow, it wasn’t so long
after Alfred had started that the
horses took fright when he was
closing a gate, and bolted; the
pastor lost control of them;
they ran the buggy over a big
rock and upset it, and the pastor
and his wife were both killed.
That was the story Alfred
told when he was found wander-
ing around the scene of the
accident hours later, crying.
iyrO one could understand why
•*-: such tame horses should
bolt, or why the parson couldn’t
stop them. But they could get
nothing sensible out of Alfred.
Of course they were terribly
upset about the pastor and his
wife being killed, and sorry for
little Alfred left an orphan, but
they were just as worried about
not knowing exactly how the
accident happened. The whole
community went about for
weeks with looks of hungry
curiosity on their faces. Every
now and then some of them
would get hold of Alfred again
and question him some more,
but all he could do was burst-
out crying.
They never thought (said Gus)
of asking me or my brother
Harry, and for a long time we
weren’t game to tell because
we’d got into trouble with the
congregation before, for spying
on the parson’s harnessing-up
and making fun of it to the
other kids. But one day Harry
heard one of the elders say,
“I’d give anything to know
exactly what happened.”
Harry thought it might be a
chance to make a lot of money,
a thing that Harry never stopped
thinking about, and he told the
elder what we had seen.
We were not very close when
it happened, so we couldn’t hear
any of the words that were said,
or see exactly what Alfred did,
but it was plain enough to us
that he didn’t want to open the
gate, and his parents had to
make him. Then, when they
were driving through the gate, it
looked as if Alfred deliberately
slammed the gate against the
side of the buggy where his
father was sitting, giving him
such a fright that he dropped
the reins. The horses bolted.
But instead of giving Harry
a lot of money, the elder was
shocked at what he was told and
he called Harry a horrible little
liar. No one else would believe
us, either, even when we showed
them the buggy-paint on the
gate. They said that the wind
might have blown the gate
against the buggy, and when we
told them that there wasn’t any
wind that day, Alfred only had
to burst into tears again to put
us in the wrong.
So instead of waking-up to
the truth, they turned all the
more in Alfred’s favor, just
because Harry and I had a name
for being the wild boys of the
community. Soon they were
running over with sympathy for
Alfred again, like leaking taps.
One of them would say:' “He
didn’t mean any harm ; we can
be sure of that. It must have
been nothing but an accident.”
Then the next would go one
better: “We don’t really know
if he had anything to do with
the accident.”
Then another would improve
on that: “He was so fond of his
father and mother, and always
so good and obedient; how
could it be his fault?”
Then someone would get so
carried away he’d go too far:
“His father might have let the
reins get under one of the
horses’ tails while he was light-
ing his pipe. That would make
them bolt, and he probably
couldn’t reach the reins to pull
them up.”
But all the eyebrows would go
up at that. It wasn’t right to
blame parsons, particularly dead
ones. Anyhow, it soon got that
way that there wasn’t a speck of
whitewash left in the district;
they’d used it all up white-
washing Alfred. And all the tar
was used-up, too, blackening
Harry and me.
t Then there was the problem
of what to do with Alfred.
SINCE he had no relations in
Australia, the congregation
decided that Alfred was their
responsibility. But they were
not prepared to let any one
family have the honor of adopt-
ing him. Instead, it was agreed
that the privilege of accom-
modating him should be shared
equally. There were twelve
families whose parents were con-
sidered old enough and wise
enough to be trusted with him,
and it was. decided that each
should have him for one month
of the year.
The most deserving families
got him first. We? were to have
him last, as a punishment for
telling dreadful lies about him.
In fact, there' was a lot of
opposition to us having him at
all, but it was felt that, since
Harry and I were so wicked, we
needed the example of such a
good boy as Alfred more than
any of the others.
While we were waiting for
our turn, we learned a lot about
him from others. Whenever we
had visitors we heard nothing,
particularly from the women,
except what they were doing in
order to be ready for “the
month that we have Alfred.”
They were planting vegetables,
and flowers, too, in their
gardens, to bear or blossom
“when we have Alfred”they
encouraged fruit - trees, with
plenty of waterings and liquid-
manure, to ripen their fruits
“when we have Alfred.” They
mated cows so that there would
be fresh milk; they plucked
fowls and stripped the feathers
to make extra-soft mattresses for
Alfred to lie on “when he comes
to our place.” Those who’d had
him were consulted earnestly
about his likes and dislikes, so
that everything should be to
his taste.
Strangely enough, though,
those who had had Alfred didn’t
seem to be as sorry to let him.
go as the next-on-the-list
expected. Certainly they didn’t
complain .about him, but neither
did they hug him to their hearts
and cry over him. It was quite
a mystery to those who hadn’t
had him that those who had
could bear to part with him.
But the parents wouldn’t say a
word about it, and even the
children wouldn’t talk, though
usually they gossiped more
than their mothers.
Well, at last it was getting
towards our turn to have Alfred.
Our father and mother were not
quite so crazy about having him
as the rest; they were not so
deadly serious about religion
and everything connected with
it, and they were not always
ready to fall over themselves
with eagerness every time the
parson wanted more money for
something or other.
Still, they were bad enough.
I think that they wanted to
make-up to Alfred and to the
congregation for the nasty story
Harry and I had told about him.
Not that they thought we were
deliberate liars; they thought
we had made a mistake through
being too far away to hear and
see exactly what was going on.
We were very hurt because
they believed Alfred and not
their own sons. So while they
were getting everything ready to
be nice for Alfred, Harry and I
were making our preparations to
get even with him for making
us the black-sheep of the com-
munity. We had a very good
plan, too.
Our father, you- see, was a
very keen horse-breeder, who
kept a wild, snorting stallion
shut up in what he called a
“loose-box.” Our idea was to
tell Alfred that if he made a
nuisance of himself we’d shut
him up with the stallion. We
reckoned that, seeing how afraid
of horses he was, that would
cure him of being a pest, if any-
thing would.
Well, the people who had had
Alfred before us actually
brought him over to our place
when their month was over,
instead of waiting for us to come
and get him. But our mother
didn’t see anything strange in
that, or if she did she probably
thought it was the other family’s
fault; she made such a fuss over
Alfred that Harry and I
reckoned he just about deserved
to be put in with the stallion
straight away.
Anyhow, after a while she
decided she’d have to get busy
with the tremendous dinner she
was cooking in Alfred’s honor,
so she sent him out with us to
play.
YI7ELL, we didn’t believe in
’ * any beating-about-the-bush.
We took Alfred over to the
stallion-yard and told him right
away what was going to happen
to him if he made a nuisance of
himself. The stallion was in a
very excited mood that day
because it was the mating-
season and he could see some
mares down in t he paddock. He
was rearing up on his hind-legs
and trying to break down the
fence with his front-feet; he was
squealing like a stuck-pig and
his eyes looked wild enough for
him to eat-up a small boy in a
couple of mouthfuls. Alfred
was too seared to come within
{Continued, on next page)
THE RIVER
Once upon a faith
a long long hour ago,
children dressed in air
watched the Barwon flow.
Ignorant of cities
and in their solitude,
they imagined no ugliness
would ever dare intrude.
They smiled like lucky-stones
in a clear part of the river *
and the simple bowl of day
made cicadas quiver.
But when they grew to people
like us, even so with them,
came differences from which
misunderstandings stem —
Why is this other tribe
hunting on our plain?
We must touch them with a flint
to pride and fear and pain!
And so will cities always build
from such angry foundations,
suffering the torture
of disrupted relations.
Yet even now, trust gone away
like opal from the hill,
the Barwon tells a dry heart
of things that heal it still.
N.S.W.
BRIAN MALTBY.


CHATEAU TANUNDA
No. 12
v. am sb.
£4OO
REWARD
Lawflor * Black*
LATE OF BALLAARAT,
i •> ikNt Om 18th 4sj «r Nmaktr I art. at (bat pitta w «
TREASONABLE AND SEDITIOUS LANGUAGE.
■ wp Ansa, with a »b"
Oar honninf Larfy th* Qonn .
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
That a Reward *f £*oo Mil be paid to up pmmj* pwimjgrtagjradfc
4
s i
I Apprahaurtoa af «rther •
The Eureka Stockade
The celebrated stand at Eureka Stockade.
Ballarat, in the early hours of Sunday, December
3, 1854, arose directly out of discontent over
police methods of checking miners’ licences—a
check sometimes made “four or five times in
the course of a day.”
=- Among the miners’ leaders at Bakery Hill were Peter
‘ Lalor, Raffaelo Carboni, J. B. Humffray, Frederic
r Vern and George Black. The Diggers’ resentment
J_ grew to such an extent that, at a meeting of miners on
' November 29, 1854, they decided to bum all their
licences. The Southern Cross flag—a blue flag
adorned with the stars of the Southern Cross—was
flown and the miners swore by it “to stand truly by
t each other and fight to defend our rights and liberties/’
Next day, a squadron of mounted troopers, who
had been ordered to make a specially vigorous “licence-
hunt," were met with volleys of stones. Determined
to fight for what they regarded as justice, the miners
hastily built a flimsy stockade on Eureka Flat, a plateau
of rising ground, and on the Saturday evening about
1,500 men were in the enclosure.
But Saturday night was cold, and most of the men
drifted back to their tents. Only 150 men (most of
them asleep) were in the stockade when, about 3 a.m.
on the Sunday, a force of cavalry and police suddenly
attacked. Shots were exchanged, but the rebels were
soon overwhelmed. "
Five of the attackers were killed and about a dozen
wounded. Sixteen diggers were killed in the fighting,
at least eight others (probably many more) died later
from wounds, and 114 prisoners were taken.
A Commission of inquiry declared the diggers had
beed goaded to insurrection by bad laws badly enforced,
and recommended the introduction of constitutional
government, with a broad franchise as the basis of
its representative system.
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED. EST. 1838 -
GFI2 3
a chain of the fence; he
promised to behave perfectly as
long as he was with us.
That made us feel very
pleased with ourselves, and him,
too ; so we told him all we knew
about how horses were mated,
and how young foals came into
the world, because we thought
he’d be as interested as we were,
But he got very red in the face,
as if he was going to burst-out
cjpnng* an d suddenly he ran into
the house.
Soon our mother called us for
dinner. Alfred was with her
and his face was still red. We
soon found out what was wrong
with him.
“Alfred’s terribly ashamed of
you,” our mother said to us,
“for telling him those horrible
things about horses.”
We were genuinely mystified
about why it should upset
Alfred. 5
It turned out that that wasn t
the only thing about us tha
shamed him. We d haidly sa
down to dinner before he was
red in the face again because
Harry had made a sign to me
white our father was saying
grace. And if we reached in
front of anyone for something,
or didn’t say “please” or “thank
you,” or made a noise when we
ate;'or took big mouthfuls. In
fact, the way he looked at us
and acted you'd think he’d been
forced to share a meal with a
littpr nf nipt;
But that* wasn’t the worst of
it. Our mother, who’d always
been a good sport and used to
say that manners didn’t matter
so much as long as we didn’t
tell lies, now started to look
ashamed of us, too, and began
to scold us in front of Alfred.
That was too much for us, and
>ve started to make signs to each
other about shutting Alfred in
the stallion-yard straight after
dinner. But Alfred guessed
what we meant, and told our
mother. Then she got really
upset, and told us that we were
only fit to live with a tribe of
aborigines,
Alfred wouldn’t come out and
play with us after dinner, so we
c i eared out and spent a n the
a ft erno on in the bush plotting
bow we cou j d g et even w j tb b j m
for turning our mother against
us . When we got back he was
st j]j hanging on to her skirts, and
w hen we called him a sissy he
start ed to give us one of his
father’s brotherly-love sermons.
That night our father gave us
eac h a beating for putting
thistles in Alfred’s bed, and for
a, week we were in trouble with
b oth our parents over Alfred,
because the more they protected
him the more we hated him.
We were SQ disappointed with
tbem for always taking Alfred’s
part a g a j ns t us that we talked
about running away from home
g ut ab changed suddenly
wben tbey discovered that
Alfred wasn > t satisfied with
fh either
y . , mnfb „ w „.
Jvf ’ tamer and m ther were
a v “y loving couple ; we
were u * d ““ d dld “ 11 take
notice. But that night when
s,arted b “BSmg each other
in ront °* Alfred, and sent us
all , o9 . ea . rly .?° 9181 ,hey could
g o to bed, Alfred was so upset
that he wouldnt get undressed,
“They’re just like the other
people where I’ve been staying;
they’re doing what the horses
<te*”
“Well, what’s wrong with
that?” we asked him.
“It’s sinning,” he said, looking
terribly shocked. “It’s indulging
in the fleshy lusts.”
“They all do it,” Harry told
him. “Even your father and
mother did it; or you wouldn’t
be here.”
Alfred suddehly got a strange,
wild look on his face that we’d
never seen before.
“I’m glad I did it.”
We could see what he meant.
Causing the buggy-accident.
The next morning when my
mother went to give Alfred an
“Straight from the jail grapvine .”
affectionate pat on the head he
shuddered away from her; and
when my father asked him if
something had disagreed with
him he didn’t even answer. As
soon as we could get Alfred out
of the way we told them about
how he’d carried on last night,
and what he said about being
glad he’d caused the accident
that killed his parents. They
were shocked, but pleased to be
convinced at last that we had
been speaking the truth about
it.
They decided against telling
the police, or even the congre-
gation, but they offered to let
the next family on the list have
Alfred a fortnight early. But
they’d had him once before, and
even though they didn’t know
all we knew about him they
didn’t want him a day too soon ;
which was natural enough
when he showed such dis-
approval of the only real
pleasure they had, apart from
going to church on Sundays.
By the end of the third week
my father and mother had such
a dislike of Alfred that they
wouldn’t even take him to town
with them, and since he couldn’t
very well be left at home alone
in those days, when the blacks
were still roaming around,
Harry and I had to stay home
with him. That didn’t make us
like him any more.
We were quite pleased when a
band of aborigines turned-up.
We weren’t afraid of them; in
fact, Harry and I always got on
very well with them, and
managed to make ourselves
understood when the grown-ups
couldn’t. But we felt sure that
we could use them to frighten
the daylights out of Alfred. We
brought him out of the house,
where he was hiding, by force,
and showed him to the blacks.
We were surprised to find
that they recognised him. They
were the band that his father
had preached to in German
several times, and they thought
that the pastor must have been
a powerful medicine-man,
because after each of the preach-
ings there had been unexpected,
heavy rainstorms; a thing even
the abos. had sense enough to
appreciate in those very dry
parts.
That gave us our great idea
for getting rid of Alfred. We
told the blacks that he would
soon grow up into a very power-
ful medicine-man, too, like his
father, and asked them if they’d
like to have him. The blacks
took it quite seriously, and
looked as if they might be very
willing to take him.
DUT Alfred objected strongly.
■E* He tried to shame us by tell-
ing us that we were as bad as
Joseph’s brothers who sold him
to the slave-traders; but that
only gave Harry his idea that
he might be able to get some-
thing out of the blacks in
exchange for Alfred.
First he tried persuading
Alfred. He showed him what
an advantage it had turned out
for Joseph* to be sold into
Egypt, where he became one of
the most important men in the
land. Alfred began to show a
little interest, and looked at the
blacks as if he was trying to
make up his mind about why
they wanted him. Then Harry
reminded him how keen his
father had been about contvert-
ing the heathen, and what a
wonderful opportunity it would
be to carry out his father’s;
wishes ; but Alfred didn’t seem
to be particularly pleased at
being reminded of his father.
So Harry played his last card.
“Well, Alfred,” he said, “you
can see that they want you to
be their medicine-man, and a
medicine-man is actually the
real ruler of the tribe. He can
frighten them into doing any-
thing he wants them to ; even
better than a pastor can frighten
his congregation.”
Alfred’s eyes lit up at that,
and for the first time he stopped
looking afraid of the blacks.
All the time this was going on
the abos. were chattering among
themselves and getting more and
more eager to have Alfred.
Harry could see that, and that
was how he came to make his
first big successful deal as a
salesman. He told them they
couldn’t have Alfred unless each
of them gave him the most
valuable thing he owned.
That steadied them a bit;
they seemed to have their doubts
if Alfred was worth so much.
But Harry told them that not
only would Alfred grow-up to
be an even greater rainmaker
than his father, but that he
would be able to charm emus
and kangaroos to come right up
to him, and be able to make
every man twice as strong and
every woman twice as useful,
and heal all their sickness as
well.
That was enough for them.
They gave Harry a cartload of
spears, boomerangs, womeras,
shields, dilly-bags and yam-
sticks, and we handed Alfred
over to them.
We had to give him a bit of
a push, but when the leader of
the tribe lifted him on to his
shoulder as if it was a great
honor to be able to carry him,
and all the others gathered
round admiring him and shout-
ing with pleasure, we could see
that he didn’t mind going at all.
In order to make sure that
we didn’t get Alfred back again
we warned the tribe that the
police would be after them.
Harry told them to travel as far
and as fast as they could, and
never go near a white-
settlement or let a white-man
see them, or Alfred would lose
his magic.
'T'HAT evening when our
parents came home they
were shocked when Harry told
them that we had sold Alfred
to the aborigines. But when he
explained that it was much
kinder than handing him over
to the police, who would only
hang him, and that it was only
right that he should be punished
somehow for his sins, they
agreed to hush it up.
Of course, there was a search-
party to hunt the tribe that had
stolen Alfred; but the blacks
had disappeared into wild,
waterless, desert-country where
it was impossible for men on
horses to follow. We never
heard of him again.
Then, soon as they were sure
they’d never see him again, a
funny thing happened to the
congregation; they forgot how
they couldn’t bear to have him
in their homes, and only remem-
bered how good they’d thought
he was before they got to know
him properly. That made them
grieve over his loss so much that
my father thought it would do
them good to know the truth
about Alfred ; so he told them.
But for the second time they
refused to believe; they swung
right the other way again, and
even began to suspect Harry and
me of letting the blacks take
him. They made it so hot for
us that we left the district and
the State ; but you should know
that even over here our terrible
reputation followed us.
“Sometimes since I’ve grown
up,” Gus Lindner concluded, “I
think that we might have been a
bit tough to sell Alfred to the
aborigines like that. You could
say that it wasn’t his fault that
he was queer; a lot of it had to
do with the way he was
brought-up. But then I remem-
ber how deliberately he caused
the buggy-accident, and how
pleased he was afterwards that
he’d done it, and I think that
he’d probably fit-in much better
in a tribe of blacks than among
civilised people.
“Anyhow, Harry sold all the
weapons and things he’d got
from the abos. to a museum a
few years later, for a very good
price. He used the money to
start-off dealing in farm-
produce. He’s never looked
back since ; and that seems to
prove to me that we did the right
thing.”
SUCH was Gus Lindner’s
version, told to me when I
was a mere boy; and, fantastic
as it may seem, after I’d talked
with the anthropologist
I couldn’t but be impressed
with how convincingly every-
thing pointed to Alfred.
Not only the Germanic words
in the vocabulary, but the
tribe’s deliberate and successful
evasion of white-people for so
long. This could easily have
arisen, the professor admitted,
from- Harry’s warning to the
tribe to avoid white settlers; m
fact, they would probably make
white-people their chief taboo,
and, over the years, tradition
(after the fashion in every
religion) would add force to the
rule.
One aspect, though, raised a
little difficulty. According to
the photographs the anthro-
pologist showed me, the majoi"
ity of the tribe appeared to be
at least half-white. It looks as
though Alfred must have risen
to an extraordinarily dominating
position among the aborigines,
and also had overcome, to a
remarkable degree, his repug-
nance to the lusts of the flesh.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN DOUGLAS COURTNEY for-
merly of Kingsgrove.—TAKE NOTICE
that SHIRLEY COURTNEY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 596 of 1956 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 11th of
June 1956 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from W. D.
SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N. S. Wales—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
NEW INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS!
New Styling, New Powei, New Comfort
,v‘"
AS-160
J
AS-110, 12 cwt. Utility
AS-112, 15 cwt. Panel Van
FUNCTIONALLY STYLED FOR PRACTICAL GOOD LOOKS!
Here are the new International Trucks . . . great new models from
every point of view. Their clean-lined balanced styling is trim
and functional, smart and modern . . . built to take the rough
going of truck operation without excessive repair costs. These
new models are ‘all-truck’ from the ground up no compromise
with “beefed-up” motor car parts. .
MORE USABLE HORSEPOWER FOR BIG-MONEY SAVINGS
The New Black Diamond Engines have been designed to provide
improved economy, increased power and torque with the higher
octane fuels available. Other imprpvements have been made to
pistons, valves, manifolds, camshaft, clutch, oil pump and electri-
cal system. All these features mean that you get there faster
with bigger loads and you save on operating and maintenance
expenses you save the big money.
DRIVER DESIGNED FOR REAL COMFORT
The new International trucks let the driver relax, work longer
without fatigue. Drive these newest additions to the most com-
plete truck line ever offered in Australia today. Relax in roomy,
driver-designed comfo-vision cabs with natural angle steering
wheel and toe board to take the strain out of driving. More
features are dual windscreen wipers, sunvisors, dome cab light,
genuine hide upholstery. Low bonnet gives you safer close-up
view of the road ahead. Super-scoop ventilating cowl increases
the comfort of summer driving.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
District sales offices in Capital cities.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ALL-TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY
FMT/7?4-3 6
[?] Saturday
by
ADRIAN
WINTLE
IT was one of those leaden
afternoons, with the sky a
complaining blanket of
grey; a cold, stay-at-home
afternoon.
His thoughts were not so much
on the weather as on the ordeal
to be faced. As he crossed Mac-
quarie-street in the belting rain
a nervous ache gripped Martin’s
stomach.
Huddled grey shapes
approached as he neared the
Conservatorium. Martin was
envious of freedom. They’d
be off home now; he could
imagine the scene:
“Well, how did it go?”
And the excited reply, “Oh,
much better than I thought.
Only one dominant seventh and
no diminished sevenths!”
A scene which, in Martin’s
case, was not likely to be dupli-
cated.
Martin picked his way care-
fully around the sloshy water-
pools near the entrance. The
doors swung open. A child,
merrily chattering to its mother,
bowled out. Another one eman-
cipated, thought Martin. Push-
ing the doors open, he entered.
The Conservatorium, he
reflected, was at the best of times
a dismal place. Today it seemed
as if all the gods of gloom had
descended on it. From the
wooden faces of children ner-
vously gripping sheet-music to
the equally wooden faces of long-
suffering parents the scene was
one of emptiness. The electric-
bulbs, even, were naked.
“Hello there, Martin! ”
He wheeled ; saw a fair-haired
girl in tartan dress.
“Hi, Janet; had your exam.?”
“Not yet.” She paused. “You
know Sylvia Jensen?”
Martin nodded.
“Well, she’s had hers. Guess
who examined her?”
Martin didn’t know. Janet
named the Conservatorium’s
most fearsome teacher.
“Where is she now?” inquired
Martin.
“She was sick in the wash-
room,” said Janet, “and I
haven’t seen her since.”
Sick? thought Martin. What
are these exams, for, anyway?
He couldn’t see much use in
them except as a sort of standard
to judge other people by. (“My
George did sixth-grade last year.”
“Oh, how nice. My Nellie does
seventh this year.”) And cer-
tainly not much use to anyone
nervous . . . well, look at Sylvia
Jensen.
“He’s terrible, that man,” con-
tinued Janet. “I had him for an
exam, last year. He was gruff,
and he didn’t hear any of my
pieces right through; he only
heard, or should I say ‘tolerated,’
about one-third of my work.”
Janet scowled. “ You’re not
having him, are you?”
“No,” said Martin, “merci-
fully, I’m not. I believe it’s to be
a woman examiner.” Martin
cleared his throat. “Do you know
the time, Janet?” Janet laughed.
“I’ve heard that question a
hundred times from different
people,” she said, “ever since they
removed the clock.”
She pointed to the place on
the wall where the clock usually
was. A circle of fresh paint
marked its customary position ;
fresh grey-green paint.
“What a hideous color,” said
Martin; “almost glaucous.”
Janet gaped.
“Chew that one over,” he said
as he made his way to the
information-desk.
HERE he handed in a ticket
with his name and a number
on it. The man behind the
counter looked worried. He
studied the ticket. “No. 11972?”
he queried. “Now, let’s see”
He ran a forefinger down a
typed list of figures and names.
“Doesn’t seem to be here.”
He turned the sheet over and
unearthed another list, just as
long as the first. He scanned it.
In a few minutes he’d checked
two more lists and was back on
the first. He grinned stupidly.
“Must have missed it. 11972,
wasn’t it . . .? Yes, here it is.
Your examiner will be Miss
Christine Bartlett, room-21.”
“Room-21?” queried Martin.
“Yes, that’s up the stairs,” the
man said, “and, as you get to the
top, there’s a little railing, and
down some steps near the rail-
ing is room-22, and right
beside it”
“Thanks a lot,” said Martin.
He waved to Janet.
“Good luck,” she said.
The spiral staircase was
wooden and creaked frequently.
As he mounted it, Martin
recalled what one of his organist-
friends had said about this stair-
case: “You almost expect to
find an organ-console at the
top.”
There wasn’t an organ at the
top, but another group of
students. Near the railing facing
rooms-21 and -22 sat a parent
who’d obviously been there for
some time. Two little girls, one
clutching an “Anna Magdalena”
book of Bach, talked high-
spiritedly. A morose girl with a
’cello was waiting outside
room-22.
Martin heard a door open
around a corner of the passage.
Presently an excited voice
started-up, and a second later the
voice’s owner, a youth of Rus-
sian extraction, burst around the
comer. He was wearing a
violent blue suit. Hair fell in
a shock over his face.
“It was so easy—so easy,” he
insisted, waving a violin-case.
“And ze scales —Pah! It is only
a fool who cannot play zese
scales! ”
His sister, or maybe girl-friend,
listened admiringly. Martin
swallowed. Scales weren’t his
strong point.
“And when he ask me ‘play zis
scale in t’irds’ I bring ze bow
down —so” (here he dropped
his arm vigorously) “and zen—
ah-ah-ah-ah —zese t’irds ... Pah!
Zey are not’ing! Not’ing!”
The two little girls stopped
chattering and stared at the
violinist. He was enjoying his
act immensely. “Oh, ze —ze
melody in zat Schubert! So
entrancing! I play it wit’ ze
soul. You understand? Not only
ze fingers . . He collected his
music. “Ze fingers speak for ze
soul.”
He walked slowly past, girl
devotedly following, and dis-
appeared down the stairway, still
talking. Martin wondered what
the Russian would say to his
parents when he got home. Prob-
ably dismiss the whole thing
with a shrug of his shoulders and
say, “Pah! It was easy—so
easy.” Martin wished his reac-
tions could be more after that
style. Then he thought of Sylvia
Jensen. Thank heavens he had a
different examiner!
The patient woman sitting
near Martin yawned, and
remarked to the world in general,
“I’ve been here a whole half-
hour. And what a horrible
afternoon! ”
The door to room-22 opened
and a student emerged. An
examiner nodded to the girl with
the ’cello. She struggled inside.
The door shut.
A LMOST immediately room-
21’s door opened, and a girl
of perhaps 14, very pale, floated
out. The angular woman whom
Martin presumed to be Miss
Christine Bartlett glanced at the
assembled ones.
Martin hastily measured her
up. Besides being angular and
fortyish, she looked efficient; the
model teacher. No pranks with
this one.
“Number 11972?” she queried.
Martin was aware of the tight
knot of nervousness again.
“Yes,” he said hoarsely. He
followed her in, carefully closed
(Continued on next page )
FOR REX INGAMELLS
Where grasses, knife-sharp to
the grasp,
where stunted banksia and tea-
tree
hold those sandridges, that clasp
the pristine jewel of the sea,
we camped, and heard the age-
less hoarse
ocean down the long sand-bars,
and heard the swans that held
their course
across those galaxies of stars.
I mourned you there, Rex, my
old friend.
I shall not grasp again your
hands,
nor see your face. World with-
out end,
the ocean thundered down the
sands.
Yet there, I thought, your body
dead,
yours was the change the myths
proclaim:
the swans, like spirits overhead,
cried from the stars your voice,
your name.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ...
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
Briti-ih Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £2/10/^
/Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
the door behind him. Now take
it easy, he cautioned himself.
“Well,” said Miss Bartlett in
pseudo-friendly tones, “I suggest
you deposit your belongings oyer
there.” She indicated a camp-
stool.
Martin peeled off his damp
overcoat. His fingers were cold.
Whether or not this was due to
the weather or his nerves or a
combination of both he couldn’t
say. Something urged him to
speak. “My hands are cold,”
he murmured.
“Oh?” said the examiner, bent
over a table, writing. Martin
opened his briefcase and ex-
tracted the music. This he placed
on top of the open upright-
piano.
Miss Bartlett looked up. “I’m
sorry to keep you waiting,” she
said, “but I must get this report
finished. Just sit down at the
piano, will you?”
Martin slid into the seat. As
he’d dreaded, it was too high.
He glanced at middle-C and got
the seat centred with it.
Now he noticed several
things. A muffled scrape of bow
on strings told him of the ’cello-
student’s efforts next door. An
irritating accretion of water
dripped mercilessly through the
ceiling on to a paper on the floor
behind him. The walls were a
warm pink-brown. Another
piano was level with his. Oh,
and there were some reproduc-
tions—a Van Gogh and a couple
of gumtree-things.
She finished writing and
looked up. This is it, thought
Martin.
“Now,” she said, “an easy
scale to start with: A major.”
Martin placed his hands on the
keyboard. Now. He sped up and
zipped down. What a crate of a
piano.
“Very good,” she said. “Now
—F sharp minor in contrary
motion.”
He made a blue in that one.
Then followed half-a-dozen
more scales. The nervous knot
was gone. He was on edge:
sharp, wide-awake.
By the time she’d exhausted
her wide vocabulary of arpeggios
and started on the pieces, Martin
felt in top form. The Czerny
study flowed from his fingers
with an almost unbelievable
speed. A Prelude and Fugue of
Bach followed ; and at its con-
clusion Miss Bartlett actually
said “Thank-you.”
Martin was aware of a touch
of pride.
But it wasn’t all smooth sail-
ing. Twice, in the Mozart
sonata, he fumbled, missed
notes. She didn’t say “Thank-
you” after that. He finished-off
with Debussy’s “Petit Berger”—
a rustic little piece; tricky,
though, he knew.
Miss . Bartlett now roamed
over to the piano. “When did
Czerny live?” she inquired.
Martin was stumped. “Well,”
he hedged, “it was in the nine-
teenth century”
“H’m,” she said, “and what
was he noted for?”
“Studies and technical pieces,”
Martin replied. He almost added,
“Like the brute I just played.”
“Yes,” said Miss Bartlett.
“Now turn to the Bach.”
Martin opened his book at the
appropriate prelude and fugue.
I’m on safer ground now, he
thought.
“Would you say,” she asked,
“that Bach was a romantic or a
contrapuntal composer?”
What rot, thought Martin.
“Contrapuntal,” he said briefly.
“And what do you mean by
‘contrapuntal’?” she pursued.
This is getting silly. Okay, you
asked for it. “Well, it really
means,” said Martin, “that you
have a lot of melodies
running against each other
harmoniously.”
“Yes. Now turn to the fugue.
How many voices has it?”
“Four,” said Martin promptly.
“I notice there is a major
chord at the end, although this
fugue is in a minor key. What
is that effect called?”
“Tierce de Picardie.” The
words rolled out. Martin had
luckily studied fugue-form in
great detail. He was thankful
for it now.
Miss Bartlett’s eye scanned
the page. “Any stretti here?”
she asked.
“Yes, at bar-18,” replied
Martin.
“You seem to have this off
pat,” said the examiner, smiling
grimly. She went through the
Mozart and Debussy in the
same manner. The only thing of
note was when she asked
Mozart’s date of birth. Martin
gave a date which was forty
years too early. Dates, like
scales, weren’t his strongest
point.
At last it was over. Mar tip
packed the briefcase, struggled
into his overcoat. “Thank-you,
Miss Bartlett,” he ventured. He
got an acid smile by way of
reply.
He went out the door. Miss
Bartlett hovered behind him.
“Number 11973?” she queried.
One of the waiting girls sprang
forward. She brushed past
Martin. '
MARTIN rapidly descended
the spiral staircase. When
he reached the foyer, the scene
was much as it had been when
he’d first come in. There were
still rows of parents and pro-
digies. Only now Martin felt
somehow superior. He walked
confidently past them —but not
out the front doors. Oh, no.
First he had a call to make.
He’d promised his teacher to
come and see her after the exam.
He strolled down the corridor
towards the New Section. This
was a two-storied structure at
the northern end of the Con-
servatorium proper. It had been
built in the ’thirties; hence,
“new.”
It was still teeming rain. The
briefcase felt suddenly heavy.
Martin dashed across a narrow,
exposed courtyard and entered
the New Section.
And here they were again.
Parents and kids. And a. dull
background of piano-scales and
cautious violin-tones. There
were no empty seats, so Martin
dropped his briefcase and leant
against a little cabinet —music-
cabinet, probably. He surveyed
the company.
On the long form, at the far
end, sat a mother with string-
bag, raincoats, music-cases, and
an umbrella heaped about her.
She looked harassed. Probably
been subjected to a fit of pre-
examination nerves by her child,
thought Martin. Next was
a teenage girl, then a boy violin-
student (not of Russian extrac-
tion, thank the Saints); then a
rnan with straw-colored mous-
tache, and lastly a very nervous
little girl, garbed in plastic rain-
coat, who persisted in drubbing
her feet vigorously on the wood-
work.
Martin wondered how long
he’d have to wait. He couldn’t
just barge into his teacher’s room,
for the obvious reason that she
was examining. He would catch
her when the next student came
out.
“Waiting for an exam.?” a
voice asked. A slightly unsteady
voice. The voice of the flaxen-
moustached man. Martin caught
a whiff of stale beer on his
breath.
“No, not exactly,” countered
Martin. “You see, I’ve just
had”
“My daughter—she’s fourteen
—learns ballet, too. Real good.
You should’ve seen her other
night. Danced like a dream.
Well —as I was saying, she plays
piano, too—damn’ good, too.
She’s doing fourth grade—listen!
You hear that?”
Martin heard a faint tinkling
of scales, Haydn, Czerny, and
whatnot. A kaleidoscopic mix-
ture of Mrs. Jones’s little
boy, Mary X and others.
“It's sick Willie’s stand-in”
“Er—yes,” said Martin. “It’s
very good.”
“Good?” the flaxen one
retorted. “I’ll say it’s good.
My missus, she plays piano, too,
but you know how it is—damn’
kids never learn much from their
parents. Missus did pick up
coupla mistakes Betty made the
other night—but you should hear
her play! Up and down them
ivories like—well, I don’t know
if you’ve seen Winifred Ash-
well?”
“You mean Winifred Atwell,”
Martin said. “No, I haven’t seen
her, but I believe she’s”
“O’ course ,” continued the
other hurriedly, “I don’t mean
to say that my Betty’s a match
for Miss Ashwell. No, not yet.
Give her a few years, a few years
yet ” His voice trailed off.
Martin nodded sympatheti-
cally. “It must be a strain, sit-
ting here on a wet afternoon like
this.”
“Strain, yes,” replied the other,
“And she’s a nervous girl. She’s
only fourteen—good pianist —
and you should see her do those
ballet-steps! ” He whistled. “Boy,
can she dance! ”
The man with the flaxen mous-
tache lurched slightly. He bent
forward in a confidential manner.
“You know something?” he said.
Martin swallowed, fixed his
features in what, he hoped, was
an interested stare.
“Damn’ fine pianist,” con-
tinued the other; “put her on
the stage. Yes, sir. And with that
ballet—she’s tops. Why, only
other day”
Miss Lupton’s door jerked
open. A pale lad emerged.
Martin, with a hurried Excuse
me »’ . leapt forward. She was
standing in the doorway,
“Oh, hullo, Martin! Come
in, come in.”
.
VX/HEN he was safely inside, the
the inevitable question
came up. “Well, and how did
it go?” . im
“Oh,” said Martin, I m not
sure —you know, she asked me a
lot of rot about Bach and I said
Mozart was born in”
“How were the scales?” his
teacher asked. Martin frowned,
“Oh, I don’t know, Miss Lup-
ton,” he said, a trifle irritably.
“Well, do you think you
passed?” she queried,
“I’m not sure, Miss Lupton,
no t sure. But I hope so. Any-
way, if I didn’t ... there’s
always another year, isn’t there,
Miss Lupton?”
She was watching him closely,
y e t in a kindly manner. “Of
course,” she said, “there’s always
next year.”
Martin walked down Hunter-
street in the still-belting rain,
He swung the briefcase.’ Now
h e W as one of the nameless grey
figures who’d been to an exami-
nation. But that didn’t worry
him. He began to visualise the
scene at home. “Well, how did
it go?” and his reply, ‘Oh, they
only asked me


"The Horse's Best Friend"
Brumbies to Polo Ponies
By A. E. YARRA
FORTY-THREE years ago I
climbed up the stairs of
the old Bulletin office in
George-street, Sydney, to
collect the money for about 20
poems which I’d deposited a
week or so previously.
When I’d explained the pur-
pose of my mission I was
directed to a place on one side
of the office which had a large
printed sign. A young man there
(I think it must have been an
early edition of W. E. Fitz
H6nry, whose writings have de-
lighted me in recent days)
handed me a bright and know-
ing smile —and the packet of
poems, intact.
I looked at the big, printed
notice over his head and read:
“Blighted Hopes Department.”
So I put on my poker-face,
thanked the young man and
climbed back down the stairs
to George-street, where Dan
Graham, a big-game shooter and
sporting-journalist from South
Africa, and Tom Woods, a
London press - photographer,
were waiting for me.
“You’re on,” I said ; and we
started on the plan we’d made to
travel the bush and write about
it for a year. My decision had
been contingent on the accept-
ance or rejection of that packet
of poems. Acceptance meant
Sydney, rejection, the bush.
Dan, by right of age and
experience, took charge. The
idea was to work our way, pay-
ing our expenses from our earn-
ings.
Dan had been a white chief
in the Zulu tribes, an organiser
of big-game expeditions for
English tourists, a sporting-
editor, and was only in Aus-
tralia to complete his cure of
some kind of fever he’d caught
in the jungles amongst the lions
and elephants. He’d been ad-
vised to work it out of his
system by hard manual labor
and fresh air.
Tom, on the other hand, had
West End habits, including
dress-suits.
The outcome was the same in
both cases. The sweat and heat
and flies and mosquitoes —and
the language at the bush board-
inghouses and camps—annoyed
them. They were yearning to
return to a place in Portuguese
Africa, where there was big-game
to shoot and write about —such
as, they declared, nobody else
had ever set eyes on.
At the end of three months
we parted company. They set
out for Africa and the big-game.
I went on alone.
I had a definite object in
mind. The novel I went out-
back to write was The Vanish-
ing Horsemen ; a couple of
decades later it got a decent sort
of “mention” in the first £lOOO
Bulletin competition. In
royalties it brought me about
£5O, and as a serial about three
times as much—say, £2OO in all,
for five or six years’ work
gathering the material.
But the experiences it brought
me were like the treasures in the
fairy-tale cave, and now I have
only to rub the lamp of memory
to find myself again in the' com-
pany of men of the kind I’d
never have met if Bill Fitz Henry
hadn’t handed me back that little
packet of rejected poems—scrub-
riders, wild-horse hunters, dingo-
trappers, horse-breakers, opal-
gougers, tin-sluicers, goldminers,
coach - drivers, mail - riders,
fencers, shearers, teamsters,
swagmen, drovers, station-
managers and -owners,
musterers, boundary-riders', bush
publicans, rouseabouts, bore-
drain caretakers, saddlers,
station blacksmiths, cattle-
duffers, horse-thieves, blacks,
whites, off-whites and troopers
after suspected criminals, and
the people they were after,
hiding from the law. *
And every mother’s son of
them a horseman—depending
on the four-legged friend of man
for his very life every day in
the saddle, more-or-less.
In the vast stations of New
South Wales and Queensland in
those days a man was the other
part of a horse, and the two
could not be separated for long
without the weaker half, the
man, losing the means of living,
often fife itself.
I learned to be a horseman —
to wear a coat short at the back
so it would not rub on the
horse’s fur and gather sweat-
stains ; rusty spurs, allowed to
rust so the sun would not shine
on them in the scrub and give
warning to cattle-duffers or
horse-thieves at work; mole-
skin trousers that were known
as stockmen’s-cutelastic-sided
boots that had high heels to
prevent the foot being caught in
the stirrup if I got thrown (my
boots saved me from being
dragged to death three times in
one day).
But above all I learned to love
a good horse, and to take an
interest in horses that has never
left me.
I saw them broken-in the
hard way roped, thrown,
mounted sometimes when they
were lying down. I heard them
scream with rage and fear when
their frantic bucking failed to
unseat black roughriders like
Kawarra Jack, on the Warrego ;
saw them respond to gentling
by men like Bruce Rutherford,
of Tinnenburra; knew them
staked by mulga branches, scrub-
dashing ; break their legs in
rabbit-holes ; tear their flesh on
the barbed-wire —and saw them
take a part in the development
of this country which seems to
have been overlooked almost
entirely by the historians,
though some of our poets,
including Paterson and Ogilvie
and Gordon, have paid them
due honor.
I read now with horror that
money is being made by people
who sell worn-out horses,
fattened, to be killed for dog’s-
meat. And I fear that some
judgment will fall on these
people for their sacrilege.
So, musing over a little chest-
nut that used to carry me with
never a balk or stumble, dash-
ing through the mulga, I got off
the train, at Cunnamulla (Q.) on
a recent holiday and was whisked
by a friend out to Eulo (where
the Opal Queen presided in a
pub in 'my day) and up the
Paroo to the homestead of
George Thomas and his wife,
on Pitherty station, a part of
the old-time Tyson station,
Tinnenburra.
George is a horseman to de-
light the eyes of a bushman. He
can not only ride anything in
hair or hide (as we used to say)
through the mulga when it’s so
thick that a dog couldn’t bark in
it; he can get inside the mind of
a horse and out-think him.
He might have been weaned
on a horse, swaddled in a saddle-
cloth and teethed on a bit-ring
to judge by the way he rideS.
Soon after he’d left school
George was riding home when
he met a drover who was bound
for George’s home at Pitherty
to lift a mob of cattle for the
road. George* about 15, was
dressed like a horseman of
experience far beyond the age of
15, and, as a joke, asked the
drover for a job. The drover,
a bit of a humorist, eyed
George’s hat and spurs, and said
he could have the job if he’d
ride the drover’s horse to the
homestead with the plant.
George said he’d ride the
drover’s horse, if the drover
would ride George’s mount. The
drover agreed, knowing that his
own horse was an efficient buck-
jumper with a stranger in the
saddle. On the way to the
station both horses put their
heads down. George’s horse
threw the drover. George rode
the drover’s horse to a standstill.
Arrived at the station the
drover learned that the kid was
the son of Ike (“Brumby”)
Thomas, than whom no horse-
man in his day was better known
along the western rivers.
When I arrived at Pitherty on
my recent holiday, George, who
was vice-president of the
Cunnamulla Polo Club,
captain of the Warrego
polo-team, and the owner
of a big string of polo-
horses, was breaking-in
some colts for polo, with
the aid of Malcolm
Campbell, a ringer from
the Gulf country and a
member of the Warrego
polo-team.
I want down to the
yards and watched the
new style of horsebreak-
ing, as practised by "these
two experts.
George and Malcolm
explained to me that the
days when you roped
them and threw them and
rode them high, wide and
handsome till they gave in
(till next time) were gone from
the mulga country. That was
rserved to the rodeos.
“We teach the horse from
babyhood that man is his best
friend,” George told me. “They
learn that it’s a pleasure to know
us and work for us. We teach
them that, working for us, they
get the greatest kindness, and
play games with us that are
exciting and good fun.”
One of the effects of this I
saw when we were.riding home
from a day’s mustering on the
back-country of Pitherty. A
mob of George’s polo-horses
sighted us from about a quarter-
of-a-mile away in the bush.
Instead of galloping away, as
they would have done in the
old days, or hiding in a clump
of waitawhile-bushes till we’d
passed, or, if they were belled,
standing perfectly still so their
bells would not betray their
presence, they neighed to hail us
with delight.
Then they raced in a mob to
meet us, surrounded us, snort-
ing, prancing around us, gossip-
ing in horse-language with our
mounts, and were only stopped
from escorting us to the home-
stead, like a party of old friends,
by the fence of the horse-
paddock.
“They reckon we’re good
cobbers,” Malcolm, the man
from the Gulf, said.
Malcolm knows. He makes a
living breaking-in horses and
running brumbies, in between
routine station jobs as a ringer,
while working towards a place
of his own.
So I watched these two men
gentling a horse instead of break-
ing him. They edged him care-
fully out of the mob, into the
stockyard. George stood out-
side the yard, giving instructions
to Malcolm, who was in the
yard with the colt.
Malcolm treated the colt as
a neighbor in for a gossip. He
walked about, talking to the
horse as though he understood
good English, until after a bit
the colt stopped edging away
from him and began to show
he was interested in this fellow
who had a nice voice and made
no effort to interfere with him.
Gradually the colt started to
walk towards the man and in-
vestigate him. Malcolm kept on
talking to him. The colt thought
this was a bit of all right, by the
look of him. He stepped a bit
closer.
Malcolm kept on talking, but
edged back quietly. The horse
followed, foot by foot. Malcolm
stretched forth a hand gently.
The colt sniffed at it. Still
talking, Malcolm touched the
horse on the forehead. The colt
seemed to like it.
Presently the man was gently
stroking the colt’s neck, still
talking. The colt stood quietly
while a headstall was slipped on
his head. He nudged the man
on the chest. The man walked
away, leaving the rope attached
to the headstall trailing. The
horse didn’t even shake his head
to rid himself of the headstall.
In no time at all the horse
was allowing the man to lead
him around the yard, to drive
him with long reins. It was a
game. Fine!
Next day the lessons were
continued. Malcolm put a
saddle on, skilfully and very
gently, leaving the girth loose.
The horse submitted —curious at
the new game that was being
played between him and this
fellow with the two legs and
something sweet in his hand to
be licked with delight by the colt
now and then. George protested
forcibly when he caught the
sugar trick. He said that wasn’t
horse-breaking.
When the colt had worn the
saddle for half-an-hour, being
driven With the long reins, they
SKUTHORPE, old-time cham-
pion roughrider, as Will Dyson
pictured him in The Bulletin in
1908. The other drawings on this
page, dating to the same period,
were the work of Douglas Fry,
an uncle of leading English poet-
dramatist Christopher Fry. Syd
Long and Douglas Fry once
combined in a joint painting, Fry
doing the horse and Long most
of the rest. A. E. Yarra, in his
article, compares modern with
old-style horse-handling.
taught him never to buck.
Malcolm, with George instruct-
ing, handled the horse all over,
including the legs and hoofs, and
when the horse showed he didn’t
mind, the horse-breaker put
hobbles and the sidelines on
him, connecting hobbles on
a foreleg with those on a hind-
leg by a strong line.
Thus side-lined, the horse
would not be able to buck, even
if he wanted to. But the colt
stood like a statue, and to look
at him you would think he was
amused. He made no move
while the game developed into
the part where the man got into
the saddle and down again
repeatedly for perhaps a quarter-
of-an-hour. Or when Malcolm
sat in the saddle and flapped him
all over smartly with the inner-
tube of a truck-tyre, making a
loud noise like a rifle-shot every
time the rubber struck his fur.
But when George climbed into
the yard with a 14ft. stockwhip
and started cracking it with a
loud explosion within inches of
his heels and forefeet the horse
plainly began to wonder —for a
few minutes. Then he decided,
either that he could do nothing
about it in the hobbles and side-
lines or that there was nothin’
to it and nobody was getting
hurt.
Perhaps he liked the noise.
Certainly he was keenly in-
terested in every move of the
man with the whip. All he did
was wince once or twice at the
start.
George explained to me that
this was to get the horse to
understand that whatever hap-
pened he must never buck, bolt
or get scared; that no man
wanted to hurt him in any
circumstances.
The horse admitted it.
The next lesson was in being
ridden round and round the
stockyard, inside the rails. Then
a polo-stick was waved round
his head and rump.
The following day he was
ridden out in the paddock, and
showed an interest in bringing
the cows up to be milked.
Then George told me to ride
Sal (an ex-brumby from the
Bulloo River country, but now
(i Continued on page 30)


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.'
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Australia’s crack three-year-
old, Sailor’s Guide, winner of the
Sydney Cup from Beaupa and
Miss High Caste (and chosen by
this page to win the two-miler),
has earned £30,194 in stake-
money, a record for a horse his
age. A stout-hearted colt and
brimful of courage, he could
prove the best four-year-old in
the land in the coming season.
M. Point, of Sledmere stud,
Scone (N.S.W.), bred Sailor’s
Guide, and paraded him as a
yearling at the 1954 Randwick
sales, but bidding ceased at 700
gns., which the breeder declined
to accept. Later in the day he
announced a private sale to A. C.
and K. Dibb at 850gns., and
the colt has proved one of the
greatest bargains in Turf history.
A first foal, Sailor’s Guide is
by Lighthouse II (Fr.) from
Jehane (imp.) by Legend of
France. Jehane, three times
placed in England at H mile, is
a half-sister to Wood Leopard,
winner of the Chester Cup (2i
miles). Other English stayers
also figure in the pedigree.
Following a succession of
minor placings, most important
of which was a half-head second
to Sailor’s Guide in the Sydney
Cup, Beaupa rewarded his
owners and trainer Fred Allsop
for a late decision to run him
in the £BOOO Queen Elizabeth
Stakes by winning the lf-mile
w.-f.-a. contest from Electro and
Advocate.
Earlier in the season Beaupa
won the Metropolitan, in which
G. Podmore, who won on him at
latest start, also had the mount.-
Last season Beaupa chased Talis-
man and Finito home in the
Sydney Cup, and at this stage he
looks a Caulfield or Melbourne.
Cup hope, though the stable
might consider setting him for
the two-mile Brisbane Cup in
June.
Connections of Sailor’s Guide
certainly set him a tough task
at the conclusion of a hard-
fought autumn season when they
started him in the Queen Eliza-
beth Stakes. The colt quickly
folded-up in the straight, and his
rider, N. Sellwood, didn’t perse-
vere with him when he knew the
colt had had enough. Sailor’s
Guide crossed the finishing-line
a tired and distant fifth.
Oldest sprinter in the field,
Spearby not only beat the Rous
Handicap opposition in brilliant
fashion but ran the six furlongs
in l.lOf, less than a second out-
side the track-record, held by this
same veteran Spearmeta gelding,
who must be as hard as nails,
because five days before the Rous
he had had two outings at Rand-
wick in the same afternoon.
Spearby, trained by J. Norman,
had backers at long odds, who
had noted the gelding’s solid
race-condition.
Dr. Roy Croft, whose six-year-
old gelding Distant Star surprised
in the Dangar Highweight at
Randwick, hadn’t had a winner
at headquarters for many years,
but he’s had a long association
with the racing game. Distant
Star had been starting without
success in Melbourne. At the
latest yearling-sales Miss A.
Croft paid 2900gns. for an
attractive grey colt by Damtar
(Fr.) from Favour by Nizami.
Ciro, who won his first race,
the Wentworth Handicap, at
Randwick and folio wed-up five
days later with the Fernhill
Handicap, is related to El Greco,
a winner of the Italian St. Leger
and other races in that country.
Trained at Randwick by Jack
Haigh, Ciro is a Beau Son colt
from Betrothal by Ajax from
Prelude (imp.) by Coronach
(imp.).
Ashwood, who cost 4000gns.
at the Randwick yearling-sales
in 1954, won his first race, the
Second Maiden (£914), on the
last day of the autumn meeting.
By Delville Wood (imp.), he’s
raced by the owners of Gay
Sierra. His dam, Incessant, is a
Midstream (imp.) mare from
Constant Chatter by Constant
Son (imp.).
After winning the Adrian
Knox Stakes on Evening Peal,
G. Podmore was charged with
careless riding. His mount
veered-in after turning into the
straight, and Brimses, runner-
up, was hampered. At the close
of racing Podmore was sus-
pended for two months, which
didn’t surprise close observers of
the incident. Still, it was hard
luck for Podmore, who has been
riding well: he also won on
Ciro as well as on Beaupa.
Melbourne two-year-old Stra-
loch, winner of the First Maiden
at Caulfield, led all the way over
the six-furlongs, and the stable
expects him to develop stamina
with further racing. By Gold
Nib (imp.), he was bred in New
Zealand by W. R. Stead of
Sasanof stud, Hastings. The
colt is closely related to Proctor,
a Sydney Cup winner, and comes
from the family which produced
Aureole, European champion of
1954, when he won seven races
and £36,425 in stakes. Dam of
Straloch is Vixenish, by Balloch
(imp.) from Miss Vixen by
Actor (imp.).
High Gun won his third suc-
cessive race, the Caulfield
Orrong Handicap, in easy
fashion, and now goes to his
winter retirement as one of Mel-
bourne’s most promising two-
year-olds. The Empyrean colt
gave W. Williamson an easy
ride. High Gun’s dam, Love
Lilt, is by St. Magnus (imp.)
from Scotch Melody by Cis-
tercian (imp.) from Annie Laurie
by Charlemagne II (imp.).
Imported Eternal City, located
at Kia-ora stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
has been one of the most success-
ful brood-mares in recent
seasons, as her five foals prior to
her latest yearling (sold at the
Randwick auction for 4000gns.;
highest of the sale) all
won races. Eternal City’s
winners to-date are Prince Del-
ville, Fort William, Roman
Holiday, Redeswood and
Flames. She is by Epigram from
Fair City by Fairway. As year-
lings her progeny have realised
ll,9oogns. Flames is raced on
lease.
It would please the racing-
public if A.J.C. stewards
indulged in occasional retro-
spective inquiries. There’s room
for them, following some re-
markable form - improvements
during the Randwick autumn
carnival. Some horses that had
finished well down the course at
prior outings showed 100 per
cent, improvement to run into
.the money in dashing style.
“Bookie’s Dog”: Writer on a
Melbourne morning-paper re-
cently achieved the height of a
racing-seer’s ambition by fore-
casting every winner on an
eight-race card. His paper gave
his feat some prominence in its
Monday edition. I was re-
minded of the time some years
back when a good friend of
mine “tipped the card.” For
him there was not a word of
publicity. When he complained
the canny old sporting-editor
rejoined that the selected winners
were now useless to anybody,
and that he was just as likely to
draw a blank the following
meeting. In point of fact, it
was three weeks before my friend
picked his next winner. For the
record, the late soothsayer men-
tioned above selected one winner
at his next try —and that was at
odds-on.
“Sawtell”: The victory a
month or so back of the
Adelaide-trained mare Pushover
in the Australian Cup recalled
that when Bold Belle won the
Cup in 1951 mares filled all three
placings. Also, in the preceding
six years three mares —Spectre,
Knockarlow and Bannerette —
were successful.
“P.0.M.C.”: Randwick book-
makers should present Noel Mc-
Growdie with a gold loving-cup
for his four winners on Wednes-
day of last week—two were out-
siders, and the hard-heads missed
the others, also. “The Gunner’s”
feat puts him among the elect;
during 40 years I remember only
J. Toohey, E. McMenamin,
W. Cook, J. Thompson and N.
Sellwood notching four (or more)
wins on the same afternoon
at h.q.
* * *
Three battalions of Derby-
prospects charged down the
Harold Park straight in Friday
night’s run-offs, first three in
each to get a run in this coming
Saturday’s £4OOO final. Billa-
bong Scott, 1 from the Adams
stable, was a nice all-the-way
winner of the first heat from
S.A.’s Free Hall —a likely-look-
ing, but erratic, colt—with big
free-stepper Scarlet Globe, from
the northern coalfields area, a
promising third. Highland Jan
was the unlucky runner in this
heat.
Argent, winner of the second
heat, is one of the toeiest fillies to
strut the Park for a while. She
led all the way in her heat to be
eased-down for a three-lengths
decision, rating 2.8 f for the
journey. She is by Silver Peak,
1946 Sydney Derby winner, and
is the best of his stock. Her
dam, Scottish Maiden, is by
U. Scott (imp.), from Spangled
Maiden (imp.), which may
account for it. Pointer, an
Enzedder, and First Rank,
fellow - Victorian, were her
runners-up.
Anytime, winner of the third
run-off, is living true to label. On
his recent string of victories, it
is hard to predict that his run
will be stopped even by Argent
in this week’s decider. In a
hopeless box at the bell, Chant
patiently weaved his charge into
an attacking position, and from
there on it was “Shut the gate! ”
Anytime is a brown gelding by
Southern Brigade, from Melody
Time, by Master Dixie, from
Robert’s Melody, by Robert
Derby, from Melody Rock, by
Rock Huon. Pacemaker Lady
Wexford came in second;
Doyen, who from a bout of
illness could train-on to be a
danger in the final, was third.
In sloppy conditions, S.A.
champion trotting mare Spring
Pride snatched her second
Hambletonian Championship by
a head from Victorian Novel
Count at the Melbourne Show-
grounds track last Friday. One
of the best trotting mares seen
for* a long tirrie, she finds a
reserve of stamina that’s rare in
a mare. She is by Springfield
Globe, out of S.A. brood-mare
Erinack, dam of Sydney’s top-
notch pacer Van Hall. Little
Duchess was third in the big
run. On the same card Inter-
Dominion winner Gentleman
John was downed in the Yarra
Mile by Avondale.
+ +
In the closest-fought finish of
the last decade, topweights St.
Josephs (average 12.8) put
muscle to oar for their sixth
Sydney Head of the River —their
first in the last 20 years. Joeys
were only 3ft. and 3ft. respec-
tively to the good of Kings and
Shore at the end of the mile-
and-a-half, and only two lengths
covered the first seven crews.
Hitting the lead early with a
fast rating in the swift-flowing
Nepean, Joeys from there on
disputed the lead throughout
with Kings and Shore; at the
quarter-mile it was anybody’s
race, with the St. Josephs crew
confidently getting to the front
from the tiring Shore and Kings,
an ounce of fight still left in
them. Time, 4min. 41sec., was
a second outside Shore’s 1950
record.
* # *
“K.R.”: Two Maroubra
(Sydney) lifesavers, Dennis Green
and Wally Brown, are in world-
class as canoeists, and on their
times have a good chance of
winning an Olympic gold-medal
or two. Green is the single-kayak
champion, and, with Brown
makes-up a powerful double-
kayak combination. The two
have lately made a clean sweep of
two canoe-championships the
N.S.W. (on the Nepean) and the
Australian (at Lake Wendouree,
Ballarat, at Easter).
* * *
Sydney Rugby Union’s
“glamor” team of the season,
Northern Suburbs, revitalised
under the captaincy of inter-
national fullback Rod Phelps,
was somewhat unlucky not to
defeat Gordon in the second
round of the competition on
Saturday. North’s pack won the
forward-honors, but Gordon’s
backs, with the Phipps boys out-
standing, were more penetrating;
13-9. Raiidwick, without two
internationals, Shehadie and
Barker, comfortably beat St.
George, also minus two inter-
nationals, Cameron and Staple-
ton, 33-17, and University, with
goal-kicker John Dowse helping
a lot, doused Drummoyne 19-6.
Eastwood made its top-score in
first-grade in scotching Parra-
matta, 33-12, Brian Pearson (six
goals and a penalty) also making
a club-record goal-kicking tally.
Eastern Suburbs defeated Manly
by the same margin (20-6), by
which it had beaten Eastwood
in the first round. Gordon and
Easts are the only two teams
to have won both their games.
* * *
The V.F.L. gets away on
Saturday to its first bounce-off
of the 1956 season. Melbourne
Demons, last year’s premiers,
meet Richmond Tigers (who
finished last season with a rush
after disappointing earlier) in
what should be the main match
of the opening round. On form
in practice-games by all the clubs,
with some promising recruits
showing-out here and there, the
V.F.L. should give its patrons a
lot of spectacular football this
year.
* * *
The first Australian pentath-
lon, decided in Melbourne
over Easter and contested by 10
athletes, was won by 29-year-old
Victorian dairyfarmer Neville
Sayers. Last November Sayers
won the Victorian pentathlon
title, the first ever held in Aus-
tralia. (The pentathlon consists
of five events spread over five
successive days swimming,
pistol-shooting, 4000 - metres
running, fencing and horse-
riding.) Sayers did well to win,
after he’d got away to a bad start,
notching only 170 points against
965 by Sven Coomer, the 15-
year-old Sydney lad who did con-
sistently well and led most of
the way.
* * *
White City (Sydney) saw exhi-
bition tennis last Friday and
Saturday, exponents being Rose-
wall, the Dane Kurt Neilsen,
Bromwich and Emerson. It was
serious, and often brilliant,
tennis. Neilsen, U.S.-educated,
in Australia on business, easily
beat Bromwich, but went down
to Rosewall, though displaying
in the process some of that tennis
which has taken him into two
Wimbledon finals. Fittingly
“Brom,” with his famous two-
handed stroke still well in
evidence, beat young Emerson in
what was probably, apart from
his playing in the doubles later
in the day, his last match on
the centre-court at White City.
(Still much of an idol there,
Brom is moving to Melbourne.)
* * *
Sandy Brown, now, from Bel-
fast itself, by no means disgraced
his Bst. 101 b. against one Brian
Bennett at Leichhardt, but this
Bennett, now, he weighs a whole
9st., and above and beyond all
that, d’y’ see, he’s been no less
than amateur bantamweight
champion of New South Wales.
And well now, he beat Sandy;
but you won’t be overlookin’ —
will you?—that among his other
tremendous advantages this
Bennett has the illustrious front-
name of the great Brian Born
no less, so it was, after all’s said,
a grand victory for the Ould
Sod.
* * *
Former Newcastle (N.S.W.)
amateur golfer W. Shephard (
won the Adelaide “Advertiser
Thousand, returning a last-round
of 66 to equal the Kooyonga
record and give him a five-stroke
win. Len Woodward, Ossie
Pickworth, Sid Cowling and Eric
Cremin all professionals--
finished second on 216 but shared
the major end of the pr ize '
money; as an amateur, Shep-
hard, of course, can’t claim any
lucre.


What the Records Show —and Don't Show
Road Accidents
By C. McNEIL
THE * man and his wife
were having their tea,
talking about little things.
Then suddenly they were
quiet, staring at each other,
listening to the scream of rubber
on the roadway, the crash of
metal, the falling glass.
They found it right outside
their house. A man in one of
the smashed cars was injured,
and a neighbor had already
phoned for the ambulance.
After a while the shocked
couple went back inside their
house. The wife suggested that
he telephone a newspaper about
the smash. The man took the
phone off the hook.
He was talking into it:
“Right outside the house”
“Was anyone killed?” the
reporter wanted to know.
“No. But a man broke his
leg.”
“Well, do you think it would
make a picture—what are the
cars like? Are they badly
damaged? Lying on their •
side?”
“No. One of them has the
front flattened and the windows
are broken, but they’re upright.”
The reporter thanked him,
and took his name and address
so that the paper could send him
something for the news-tip.
The man asked him if some-
one would be coming out to see
the accident, and the reporter
said that, as things were a bit
busy, he did not think so.
The man hung-up, and said to
his wife: “The callous cow—
all he wanted to know was if
someone was killed.”
The reporter and
turned to his offsider: “That
Balmain one is only a broken
leg. Pick it up from the police
when you ring them later.
We’ll go out in the car now and
do the fatals.”
There had been three “fatals”
in different suburbs in 15
minutes.
Yet in the paper next morning
all that night’s accidents only
made about Bin. of space.
Road-accidents have become
so appallingly common that
they are less and less like news
every day.
The freak accident, involving
half-a-dozen cars, with no one
injured, or the semi-trailer
through someone’s front-fence,
is news.
The pedestrian knocked down
and killed only rates a couple of
paragraphs these days.
The newspapers cannot be
blamed for their way of looking
at the road-toll. They would be
the first to cheer, in big print,
if a few days passed without a
fatal accident. That really
would be news.
In an effort to show how such
an accident - free condition
might be reached, the N.S.W.
Motor Transport Depart-
ment got out some figures.
These break-down into details
every road-accident in N.S.W.
between June, 1954, and June,
1955—a1l 35,315 of them.
There’s a yell of fright or pain
behind every one of these
numbers.
In those 12 months, 798 were
lO.B per 10,000 of
the 739,372 registered vehicles
on the road. More than two a
day.
The injured totalled 15,959, or
216 per 10,000 vehicles.
For a guide on how the trend
is going, this is what happened
in some other years:
1935—244,428 registered
vehicles, 8786 accidents, 408
killed, 6486 injured.
1945—293,083 registered
vehicles, 7889 accidents, 370
killed, 5351 injured.
1954 —684,186 registered
vehicles, 29,514 accidents, 728
killed, 14,660 injured.
Breaking-down (as indicating
the trend) the road-toll for that
last-given year, the number
killed each quarter was greater
than in the same quarter of the
previous year. The best month
was November, when 47 died
(November was also best in the
previous year, with 35 deaths).
The worst month was April,
when 90 died, or three a day
(and - April was the worst month
in the previous year, with 76
deaths). There were 2632
accidents in November and 3514
in April.
Theoretically, the most
dangerous time to be on the
road then was between 6 p.m.
and 8 p.m. on a Saturday. Of
the 798 people killed, Saturdays
accounted for 198, Fridays 132
and Sundays 100. Best days
were Tuesdays, with 84 deaths.
More than a quarter —207—
of the total of those killed were
in accidents in the two hours
after 6 p.m. (This was before
10-o’clock closing, of course.)
The same period also accounted
for most accidents (6359) and
most injuries (3183).
Safest time to be on the road
would seem to have been
between 4 a.m. and 6 a.m. In
the 12 months that two hours
saw 429 accidents, with 10
killed and 207 injured.
Worst place in the State for
accidents was the Sydney region,
with 414 killed and 9708 injured
in 21,755 accidents. That took
in everywhere from the city
itself (2608 accidents, 22 killed,
760 injured) to Normanhurst,
which had five accidents, but no
one killed or injured.
The Newcastle region was
bad, too, with 81 killed and 1386
injured out of 3052 accidents.
In the shires and municipali-
ties it was a mixture. Dungog
had three accidents, with no
casualties; Blaxland had seven
dead and 81 injured; Grafton
seemed a fairly safe place, with
48 accidents, no deaths and 27
injured ; Gpsford, not so good,
with 425 accidents, 10 killed
and 215 injured.
In all, accidents in and
around Sydney increased by
36.6 per cent, and in the
remainder of the State by 2.6
per cent, in the 12 months
referred to as merely typical.
Commonsense would prob-
ably tell you that the most un-
likely place for an accident
would be a good straight road,
with nothing cutting down the
visibility, no dangerous inter-
sections and no treacherous
curve or crest.
Commonsense, for one e,
would be dead wrong, for 45
per cent, of accidents were on
straight roads.
Danger-points in their order
of accidents were:
Straight road (15,952); un-
controlled intersection (13,063);
curve with view open (3887) ;
intersection with traffic-lights
(604); curve with view obscured
(541); bridge, culvert or cause-
way (502); steep hill (418);
intersection controlled by police
(107); crest of hill (99); railway
level-crossing guarded by gates
(66), unguarded (57), guarded by
lights (8).
The figures clearly establish
the pedestrian as the most vul-
nerable road-user —3267 acci-
dents involved pedestrians struck
by vehicles, and 263 of them
were killed.
That figure is even higher than
the 256 killed jn collisions
between vehicles, although the
police attended 22,524 vehicle-
collisions.
More than 80 per cent, of
accidents and casualties were
due to human failure.
Nearly 65 per cent, of the
accidents and over 50 per cent,
of the casualties were caused by
the drivers of motor-vehicles.
Road-conditions and defective
equipment rated 8.8 per cent,
and 7.5 per cent, of the accidents
respectively.
It was good to see that no
“riders of billycarts, tricycles,
etc.,” were involved in any
form of accident.
Cars got into 15,646 acci-
dents ; trucks, 8437; buses,
293; taxis, 890; solo-cycles,
1337 ; outfit-cycles, 150.
Inattentive driving was the
greatest single cause of acci-
dents —5276 of them; and 140
people died because of it.
Next greatest killer was
excessive speed (87 deaths in
1976 accidents).
Failure to give, way to the
right caused more accidents
than speed (4755), but fewer
deaths (20).
Some other accjdent-causes
were:
Not keeping to the left (1790),
inexperience (326), drunk (1521),
following another vehicle too
closely (1076), driver asleep or?
drowsy (293), dazzled by lights
(253), reversing without due care
(743). •
There is a moral somewhere
in the figures for animal-drawn
vehicles.
No one was killed driving a
horse, and only two of the
accidents were through inatten-
tive driving ; eight of them were
through “intoxication.”
Dogs and cats straying on the
road caused 28 accidents; horses
and co\ys, 566.
Two people were killed and
306 injured in 697 accidents
through trying to avoid a colli-
sion by swerving, and 43 were
injured in 158 accidents by
jamming on the brakes in a
hurry.
Worst age-groups for acci-
dents were:
Motor-drivers, 21-29; motor-
cyclists, 17-20; pedal-cyclists,
7-16 ; pedestrians, 60 and over.
There were nearly four times
as many males as females killed
—73 per cent, of all casualties
were males.
Forty-six male drivers in the
bad 21-29 age-group were killed,
but only four women drivers.
In the bad over-60 pedestrian
age-group 74 men died and 47
women.
So the figures go on. They
prove rather alarmingly that
the percentage increases of
deaths and injuries are both
higher than the percentage
increase in registrations.
Not' long ago a road-safety
spokesman suggested that a
newspaper print some informa-
tion showing that a month had
passed with casualties below the
same month of the previous
year. The spokesman thought
it was good cause for comment,
but the paper did not run it.
The paper’s judgment was
shown to be right a weekend or
so later, when 11 died on the
roads on Saturday and Sunday
and threw the spokesman’s
balance out.
The Motor Transport Depart-
ment’s figures show all the most
dangerous points and circum-
stances, but they don’t go far
enough.
They don’t take you into the
ether - stinking casualty - room
where they have called all off-
duty doctors and nurses to try
to sort-out the results of one
case of human failure.
They don’t show you the car’s
windscreen lying 80yds. in a
heap from where the car hit the
light-pole.
They don’t show you what
happens when a pedestrian goes
under a car, or a motor-cyclist
out on a “burn” goes under the
back of a parked semi-trailer at
70 m.p.h., or the sports-car that
could do 100 m.p.h., but not
round a curve, or the big-truck
engine driven through the driver
when the truck hit a steel
stanchion.
They do show you, though,
that all those deaths and injuries
could have been 80 per cent,
fewer if it was not for human
failure.
And that’s up to you.
Selecting a Candidate
By SIMON HICKEY
IT happened a back, but
maybe it goes to show
you . . .
There had been a redistribu-
tion of seats, and the new elec-
torate was made up of bits and
pieces from three of the old ones.
This made prognostication of the
result of the pending election
more difficult, depending on the
right candidate being selected for
the one side and the wrong one
for the other.
The Radical party had called
a meeting at the chief centre and
an electoral council was formed.
Its first job was to select a
candidate, and a young painter
working on his own behalf
appeared to be mostly favored.
Anyway, other ambitious locals
with their ear to the ground
gradually subsided, leaving the
field to the painter.
But there was a big railway-
deviation work going on, as well
as a dam for the town water-
supply, and the new electorate
was thus full of nomadic workers
all affiliated with the Radical
party and having a vote in the
selection. That they might be
gone by the date of the election
was a matter that didn’t matter
for the job at hand.
Prodkin, a noted soapboxer,
was organiser for the nomads
and announced himself as a
candidate. With his cohorts
lined-up he had the numbers
even, with the solid opposition of
the local leaguers, who regarded
him as a windy blow-in from the
city and unacceptable in a
division with a big touch of
rurality.
The council appointed a com-
mittee of six to conduct the
selection-ballot and Do the Right
Thing. Mick was appointed
returning-officer, as he had long
experience in Doing the Right
Thing and many other sorts of
things in similar situations. His
left-hand man was Jim, from the
produce-store, who kept the
records.
The six met to arrange pre-
liminaries. One said, “We must
block this stiff from Sydney” ;
another, “Of course ... but
how?” No. 3 said, “There’s the
sliding-panel ballot-box.” “No
good,” said another ; “that’s been
worked too often.”
Spoke then the returning-
officer: “Me and Jim has this
worked out. Prodkin is a
stranger, and we will give the
poor cow a square go with a
square ballot - box borrowed
from the Municipal Council.
We’ll lock it and give the key
to the police-sergeant.”
Someone asked what was he
doing it on.
“On me honor,” he said.
“Leave it to me an’ Jim.”
The ballot was open for a
week, Jim in charge. When the
peripatetic voted, their ballot-
papers were not put in the box
but folded in a heap and stacked
with the square outside in which
Mick would add his validating
initials. He came in at intervals
and collected the lot, substituting
an equal number of his own
marking.
As a secret-ballot it was hard
to beat, for the voters did not
know themselves for whom they
voted.
Painter won looking back, and
the Organiser said (to himself)
his union were a lot of blankards.
Then the six met again and
agreed to set about selecting their
opponent. For the opposition
two names were in the running,
both “substantial” citizens.
One, a sizeable grazier, could
be given the high political apel-
lation of “sport.” Once there
was a stop-work at his shed over
wet sheep—often a disputable
matter. The Boss suspected that
the leader was having him on and
just wanted a holiday, and
challenged him to settle it
between them “out on the grass.”
It was a good, fair fight. No
clocks. After a knockdown each
corner called “time” alternately.
The Boss was shading him, but
at this stage said, “Shake! If
those sheep were slightly wet this
morning they will be dry by the
time we wash and have dinner.”
And they shook.
Another time he got wind of
a man who was breeding dingo-
pups out on the run and selling
him the scalps. He could have
taken other action, but instead
rode out, shot the dingoes, and,
by way of rubbing it in, paid the
dogger for the scalps.
A man like that would be a
good candidate anywhere.
The other candidate absorbed
and exuded all the outlook of the
first decade of the century. Noth-
ing any good politically had been
done since; the sand had gone
out of the race ; and they wanted
five half-holidays a week and
two whole ones. His economics
may have been right enough, but
his politics were bad. Here,
therefore, was their man.
There was a sound of revelry
the night of the opposition
ballot as the six cleared the pool-
rooms and street-corners and
sent along their recruits with
directions and entrance-fees (a
member was a full member when
he paid his two-bob). The new
members all voted for the “trog-
lodyte,” and he was selected.
The election was duly “fought”
as thousands of other elections
have been in the past, and
probably will be in the future.
But Australia marches on in un-
diminished vigor. She is a great
country!


I.A.C
an Issue at par of £2,500 ,000
currencies from 3 months
%
to 20 years at your option.
INTEREST
6*%
6%
5*%
Interest per
CURRENCY
7 to 20 years
4 to 6 years
3 years
i, payable quarterly, free of exchange.
INTEREST
5%
4*%
4%
3|%
3*%
Interest per annum, payable
CURRENCY
24 months
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
quarterly, free of exchange.
6% per annum (compounded) 4 to 20 years
Interest automatically re-invested annually
principal more than DOUBLES in 12 years, more
than TREBLES in 19 years.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organization
Established over 25 years
Assets exceed £40,000/000
Underwriting Brokers to the issue: lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne and Sydney
Industrial
Acceptance
Corporation
LTD.
Sydney - Melbourne - Brisbane - Adelaide
Perth - Hobart
r
56.1.38
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
LONG TERM
6i%
SHORT TERM
S%
CUMULATIVE
6%
PRQSPUCIUS
may be obfainerf from;
Ml MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and all B'-anchcts n*
I S. & A BANK LTD.
NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LTD..
; ■ ~and
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LTD.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
INDIA AND COMMUNISM
'T'HE spectacular welcome
accorded Bulganin an d
Khrushchev on their visit to
India evoked, particularly in the
British press, a mood of irritation
over the Communists receiving
such a greeting from a country
which has had substantial
economic aid from the Western
Powers. Along with that feeling
there went, naturally enough, a
large question on the extent of
Communist influence in India.
Commenting on the economic-
aid aspect, “M anchester
Guardian” notes that, while some
of Indja’s suspicions of the West
are not very reasonable, some
of its grievances will bear look-
ing into, the most valid of these
being “that Britain —and the
United States have not given
nearly as much economic aid as
might be expected”:
“Britain has been handicapped,
and India recognises it: but the
United States has not. The
Western countries do less for
India, on whom democracy’s
future rests in Asia, than the
Russians do for China, on whom
the future of Asian Communism
depends. They do far less than
has been done for Japan, Ger-
many and Italy, all of them
ex-enemies.”
At least two writers to some
extent discount the effect of the
Russian visit on Communism in
India —for the present, anyway.
The Calcutta correspondent of
London “Financial Times”
points out that “in Western eyes,
India does not always appear to
appreciate the dangers of associ-
ating so closely with a Power
which practises imperialism in
the modern form”:
“But Indians do not share the
West’s neurotic fears of Com-
munism. And Mr. Nehru con-
siders the chief danger is from
India’s poverty, not from ex-
ternal aggression. Any assistance
in curing this problem is wel-
come so long as it has no strings
attached, or, if on private
account, is prepared to work
within the Socialist framework
Which India has chosen for itself.
If the West will not provide suffi-
cient, then other sources will be
tried.
“That was the position before
the Soviet leaders’ visit. It has
not changed since. Mr. Nehru
means what he says when he de-
fines India’s position as one of
equal friendship with both East
and West. Whether the masses
which made the welcome so
memorable, or the Socialist-
inclined politicians who will
eventually replace India’s present
leaders, will continue to regard
the new link so objectively is, of
course, another matter.”
Commenting in London “Spec-
tator” along much the „,same
lines, L. F. Rushbrook Williams
suggests that while crowds which
congregated to welcome Bulganin
and Khrushchev made quite an
impressive show the effect on
intellectuals was rather different.
These, it is said, did not appre-
ciate the Russians’ attempts to
falsify history and resented the
abuse of the West as “bad
manners and as a clumsy attempt
to prejudice India’s relations with
countries whose friendship she
values.”
“On the whole,” says Williams,
“the cause of Indian Communism
seems to have been hardly
advanced at all by the Russian
visit, whereas the effect upon the
Indian Communist party has
been adverse. This party has long
been tom between the conflicting
methods of agitating in the
market-place and seeking to gain
power j?y acting as a Parlia-
mentary Opposition. Divided
counsels have weakened it: but
its main plank has always
been to attack the Government.
It now finds itself on the horns
of a dilemma. If it supports
Mr. Nehru it risks being accused
of subservience to Moscow and
of sacrificing the interests of the
masses to a foreign Power ; if it
attacks Mr. Nehru it risks incur-
ring Soviet displeasure, and find-
ing its supplies cut off ”
None of that, Williams adds,
implies that Communism is dead
in India. Its influence is
strongest among the literate sec-
tion of India because the exten-
sion of literacy has led to a
“passion for reading of any
kind,” which is fed with a steady
stream of well-produced Com-
munist literature and unanswered
London “Time and Tide."
BRUSHING UP
Cartoon comment by Strube, who died recently in London,
on the forthcoming Soviet visit to the U.K.
by anything similar from the
West.
“The real danger of Com-
munism in India,” Williams con-
cludes, “lies in the future.
“Should the Government fail
to solve the pressing economic
problems of the country, the new
literate-classes may turn to Com-
munism—Fascism is ruled-out by
its associations —in an endeavor
to ‘get things done.’ It is signifi-
cant that the only time when
Communism seized control was
when law and order broke down
in Telingana just before Dehli
decided on ‘police action’ against
Hyderabad. The Nizam’s officials
were murdered or ejected; the
Communists set up a Soviet State
in miniature ; the land was given
to the peasants. The restoration
of order was a serious task ; not
only Government officials but
even Congress social-workers
were murdered at night by
terrorists who by day were peace-
ful workers in the fields. Firm-
ness, patience and agrarian-
reform together won the day.
“But the Government of India
has never forgotten the lesson
that administrative breakdown
gives the Communists their op-
portunity. It is the fixed purpose
of the Indian leaders now in
power to ensure that Com-
munism never again enjoys the
kind of advantage which it
enjoyed in Telingana. However
high they may set the value of
Russian friendship, they will con-
tinue to look upon Communist
doctrine as a potential Trojan-
horse, and they will treat its
exponents with all due reserve.”
"Moscow Molly"
Moscow Molly is a Russian
broadcaster whose programmes
of records, jokes and comments
are beamed across for the par-
ticular benefit of Canadians and
Americans working on the
radar-network [the DEW line!
across the top of the North
American continent.
Molly, whose English is excel-
lent, has been on the job for
some time, and her knowledge
of people, places and happenings
—or how she gets it —is caus-
ing the Canadian Government
some concern.
Some examples of her infor-
mation-service, as fisted by
London “Time and Tide”:
“Molly addresses American
and Canadian servicemen by
name and tells them accurately
about their latest activities.
When the officer commanding
the Royal Canadian Air Force
base at Resolute Bay was trans-
ferred she sent greeting to his
successor the day the change was
made.
“Moscow Molly first began
broadcasting when the U.S.A.
built Thule, the big strategic
bomber- and fighter-base m
Greenland. In a quiet-fireside
fashion she urged the Americans
‘to go home and get warm’ and
‘to cease these senseless prepara-
tions for a new war which will
only destroy you and your loved
ones.’
“But what really caused alarm
was when Molly gave details ot
planes arriving at Thule and
named the passengers the)
carried—sometimes passengers
supposedly travelling anony-
mously on top-secret missions.
On one occasion Molly advise
her listeners at Thule that a run-
way-light was out —and it was.
“This detailed instantaneous
knowledge would seem to prove
the claim made by returning
servicemen that Russian age


OUT
NOW!
THE GREAT NEW.'.UP?TO*DATE ?
HOME DOCTOR -
NEWNES
Family Health
Encyclopaedia
Your complete guide to
Personal and Family Well-being
Every family needs this medical work to-day
because it is in keeping with the worrying times in
which we live. You will find it so helpful—so
reassuring! The newest work of its kind, it covers
in 824 pages the whole life span—from ante-
natal days to old age. Newnes family health
encyclopedia does not supplant the doctor . . .
but a doctor has compiled it for your home, in
language you can understand. It is yours for
7 days’ free examination.
Half-a-million words! 824 pages-244 illustrations
Charts, tables and full-colour plates-thumb-indexed
1,250 main medical subjects in A-Z order
ALSO 18 ADDITIONAL SECTIONS—MentaI Strain, Love
and Marriage, Inferiority, Health Checks for the Middle-
aged, Slimming Guides, Eirst Aid. Deals
with Blood Pressure, Alcohol, Tobacco and Health, Illnesses
In Women, Rheumatism, Sex Teaching to Children, etc.
Includes outline of Australian National Health Scheme.
FREE CLINICAL THERMOMETER
,I'OB EVERY PURCHASER
A thermometer is essential in your home. It tells in an instant
when to call the doctor and when fears may be groundless.
The thermometer is hygienically packed in an attractive non-roll
plastic case. Remove the Encyclopaedia from the box. Look
inside on the wall of the box for the package containing the
thermometer.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
NO COST—NO OBLIGATION
Si
mm
Fours
H FOR
/days
\&<WUmtiMr
TO GEORGE NEWNES (AUST.) PTY. LTD., 119 York St, Sydney;
Please send me NEWNES FAMILY HEALTH ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
It is understood that I may return the work within eight days.
If I keep it, I will send a first payment of 10/- eight davs after
delivery of the Health Encyclopaedia and only 15/- monthly there-
after until the sum, of £5 has been paid. Cash price within eight
days is £4/15/-.
Name ..
Address
Occupation
Your
Signature
(Or your Parent’s Signature if under 21)
FHE6S
Place X where
it applies.
with radio-transmitters exist both
in Greenland and amongst the
workers on the DEW line.”
Guided Missiles
Few comments on America’s
guided-missiles are without
reference to the projected Inter-
continental Ballistic Missile
(ICBM), the proposed “ultimate
weapon” with a range of 5000
miles. It is, however, in
London “Economist’s” view,
“quite clearly far in the future,”
and in the meantime it seems
that ships carrying missiles of
1500-mile range are a closer
proposition and possibly just
as effective as the ICBM.
Summing-up guided-missile
development in the U.S., the
“Economist” notes that “what-
ever the Russians have achieved,
it is quite apparent that in the
research and development of
ballistic missiles America has
recently effected a ‘break-
through’ into a new area.
“This does not mean that the
Intermediate Range Ballistic
Missile (IRBM) capable of
travelling some 1500 miles —is in
production or anywhere near it.
But lessons learned from the
sensational success of the new
Redstone missile, reported to
possess a range of about 250
miles, can apparently be applied
to types of much longer range.
“As one general puts it:
‘Range is no problem; we can
fling a ton as far as you wish.
The problem is to have it fall in
the right country.’
“This suggests that some
notable progress must have been
made in controls up to the
point where the missile leaves
the last of its auxiliary propel-
lant rockets. From then on it
would seem to be on its own.
Hence the vast importance of
absolute precision at that
moment, for if a 1500-mile mis-
sile is finally launched at 150
miles from the firing-point a
small error, whether in the ele-
vation or depression of the nose
or in variation to left or right,
would be multiplied ten times or
more in the remaining flight.
Similarly, an error in velocity
would obviously carry the
missile too far or short of the
mark.
“The development - work,
which has been carried on
mainly at an Army arsenal in
Alabama, has been directed by
Dr. Wernher von Braun, one of
the creators of the German V 2.
With him at Redstone today are
over a hundred other young
Germans who have become
fully integrated with their
American colleagues in a pic-
turesque and secluded com-
munity.
“Projects of the ballistic type,”
the “Economist” adds, “exercise
something of a charm on
American thinking. This is
partly because of the startling
nature of their promised per-
formance, setting off from any
hard-surfaced highway or ship’s
deck, soaring high above the
earth’s atmosphere, travelling at
perhaps four miles a second and
then plunging down unerringly
to the target.
“It has yet to be proved that
a weapon built on the ballistic
The Red rape
of Austria
On October 28, 1955, when
Russia ended its ten-year occu-
pation of Austria, the attitude
of the citizens of this highly
civilized country was much like
that of a grande dame whose
home had been invaded by thugs.
In April Reader’s Digest
read the barbaric record of how
the Reds slashed art treasures;
trucked off furniture, even toilet
bowls and wallpaper; raped’and
murdered helpless citizens of a
country that hadn’t even been
an enemy.
Then there’s “How to con-
quer frustration ”, “ The strange
magic of Pius XII”, “Ace air-
line detective”, a wealth of
stimulating articles from lead-
ing magazines and current
books in April issue. Only 2/-
at all newsagents, bookstalls.
principle will do all this. Its
dependence for accuracy upon
the exact course set during the
first tenth of its flight is dis-
turbing. The claim that it is
relatively invulnerable to inter-
ception because of its high speed
needs to be looked at more
critically. First, if its course is
absolutely straight, the inter-
ceptor’s mathematical task is
that much easier. Secondly, its
speed must apparently be greatly
reduced once it comes back into
the earth’s atmosphere if it is
to escape being consumed by
frictional heat.
“For these reasons more
attention should be given to
non-ballistic missiles, chiefly the
ram-jet upon which the famous
laboratory of Johns Hopkins
University continues to -do
notable research under Navy
contracts.
“The ram-jet operates in some
degree of air, and hence can-
not be flown much above
100,000 ft., and its top speed is
not, so far, expected to go much
beyond a mile a second. But
against these ‘handicaps’ it
offers very considerable advan-
tages ; ram-jets would be elec-
tronically guided in flight and
fully controllable either from an
air-base or from distant planes.
This means that they could fol-
low a weaving course, thereby
greatly increasing the difficulties
of interception, and, far more
important, that their controlled
flight would theoretically enable
them to hit the target with pre-
cision.
“This final guidance is so
immensely important that one is
forced to believe that, even upon
the ballistic missiles of the
future, a form of supplemental
guidance must somehow be
imposed.
“It is apparent that the
missiles-programme is going to
constitute a rapidly increasing
part of America’s entire military
thinking about strategy and
combat-tactics. It is bound to
call for much larger expendi-
tures, which is likely to mean
that conventional weapons and
units will have to get along with
less. This is a real cause of
anxiety to military planners, who
firmly believe on the basis of
what has happened since 1945
that ‘fringe-wars’ and ‘brush-fire
wars,’ in which the mighty
weapons will not be used, are
likelier than the grand-scale wars
in which they could be decisive.”
Archbishop Makorios
The British press lined-up
fairly evenly on each side over
the deportation of Archbishop
Makarios from Cyprus, while
American comment was notably
cautious “New York Times”
found it “hard to disagree” with
the British action, and N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” noted that
“Americans are troubled by the
Archbishop’s exile” and “hope
that the Briltish move will prove
less disruptive than now appears
likely.”
Those approving, in varying
degree, of the deportation in-
cluded London “Daily Tele-
graph,” “Sunday Times,” “Daily
Mail” and “Daily Express” and
the Edinburgh “Scotsman,” their
sentiments typified by the “York-
shire Post” editorial opinion that
“such cautious and liberal-
minded' men as Sir Anthony
Eden and Mr. Lennox-Boyd
would not have sanctioned the
arrest of the Archbishop unless
they were convinced of his com-
plicity in the campaign of
violence that is being conducted
in the island.
“After scrutiny of the evi-
dence, the Governor of Cyprus,
Sir John Harding, affirms that
Archbishop Makarios has not
merely countenanced but has
actively fostered terrorism in
order to promote his political
aims.
“That a Christian leader could
have condoned, still less en-
couraged and abetted, terrorists
who have indulged in the
cowardly, indiscriminate bomb-
throwing that has occurred in
Cyprus almost passes belief, but
the evidence cited of the Arch-
bishop’s close association with
London “Daily Express
POINTING THE FINGER
"That’s the chap who should tighten his belt.”
some of the leaders of these
criminal activities is impressive.”
Those against the Arch-
bishop’s exile included London
“Observer,” “Spectator,” “News
Chronicle” and “Manchester
Guardian.” In a comment largely
representative of their views,
London “Time and Tide”
pointed out that “there, are now
some 20,000 troops deployed in
Cyprus—an island about half the
size of Wales —a far larger
number than, at the height of
World War 11, was thought
necessary to hold it against the
threat of Nazi invasion. The fact
was that then neither we nor the
Germans thought Cyprus had
any strategic value; such, until
the Suez Canal Zone was
abandoned, was the orthodox
military opinion.
“Under the pressure of that
catastrophic decision the Chiefs
of Staff evolved the doctrine that
the Canal Zone was no use as
a base and could not be held in
face of the threat of atomic
attack. They were then bidden
to prepare an appreciation
demonstrating that a small
island, considerably nearer to
the point from which attack
must come, with a known
difficult if then dormant or
semi-dormant —political problem
of its own, would be a
thoroughly suitable large-scale
base.
“Solemnly the required appre-
ciation was produced; solemnly
the orders were issued for the
transfer of troops and stores and
equipment and for the costly
building of the appropriate
extensive installations.
“Inevitably, as soon as we
discovered that the island had
strategic value so did our
enemies. If there is one trick
in the game that the Communists
know and exploit again and
again it is frustrated nationalism.
A nationalist, however tenuous
his case (and while the Cypriot
case for self-government is
strong, the case for enosis is
much more arguable), is halfway
towards being a Communist ally.
“There need be little doubt
that the accusations made against
Archbishop Makarios in the
statement issued at the time of
his deportation are accurate and
fully justified. But granted that
there was a long history of
political unrest in Cyprus—
dating back at least to the burn-
ing of the late Sir Ronald Storrs’s
library— unrest involving the
leaders of the Orthodox Church,
was it not foreseeable that a
young, vigorous and ambitious
Archbishop would be totally im-
plicated in any renewed struggle
and was indeed certain to emerge
as a nationalist leader?
“There is no need to be either
surprised or shocked at the role
that Makarios has played so far.
What is sad and ironic is to see
the British Government propel-
ling him inevitably to the special
eminence reserved for a nation’s
leaders who are also heroes and
martyrs. Some, like Zaghlul and
several of the Palestinian leaders,
have been temporarily exiled ;
some, like Nehru and Gandhi,
have been put in prison under
emergency regulations. All have
enjoyed and exploited the halo
thus handed to them.
“Sorne time or another (let
us make no mistake about this)
Makarios will go back to Cyprus,
with his prestige enormously
enhanced and that of his ‘op-
pressors,’ the wicked British,
proportionately damaged. The
clamor of praise for a policy
of ‘getting tough,’ uttered by
most British newspapers, was as
ill-advised as it was unedifying.
A different theme will have to
be sung, in due course, when the
exile goes home.”
Various Voices
Henry A. Price (British Con-
servative M.P .): “Great Britain’s
crisis isn’t an economic crisis' —
it is a work-crisis, and it is one
which threatens the industrial,
economic and social standards
of all; and it is a crisis which can
be solved, not by the Govern-
ment, but only by the people
themselves. The Government
can, by fiscal and other measures,
delay the day of reckoning ; in
the end that day must come, apd
the nation will have to face it.
If they refuse the challenge, then
disaster is certain —nothing any
Government can do will avert it
—and when that day comes the
workers will blame everybody
but themselves, but they will, in
fact, have nobody to blame but
themselves.”
Prime Minister Eden: “Only
a solvent and prosperous Britain
can shoulder the burdens of a
great Power. History and geo-
graphy have combined to give us
a special position in the world.
We cannot and will not abdicate
from this. That does not mean
that we are not conscious of the
new forces, nationalist and
others, at work in the world. But
the logical conclusion of abdica-
tion would be a policy of
neutralism, and to be neutral for
Britain is a slow death.”
U.S. Acting Secretary of State,
Herbert Hoover, Jnr.: “The im-
mediate Soviet goal is quite
clearly one of isolating the
countries of the free world from
the United States. This much
accomplished, the goal of out-
right conquest or subversion
would be greatly advanced.”
U.S. President Eisenhower:
“Aggression through force
appears to have been put aside,
at least temporarily, and the
Communists are now making
trade - approaches to many
nations of the free world. Even
while we welcome respite from
the Soviet policy of threat and
violence, we must take careful
stock of what still remains of
it. The vast Soviet military estab-
lishment has not been scrapped.
On the contrary, the Soviets and
their Communist allies are in-
creasing the strength and effec-
tiveness of their armed forces
and are providing them with
equipment of the most modern
design.”


“...in pound for pound value
the Holden is so far ahead...”
WRITES MR. JOHN H. LESLIE
OF FRENCH’S FOREST, N.S.W.
0238
From all over Australia come letters
praising the dependability and out-
standing value of Holden.
Here is one such letter from Mr. John
H. Leslie of French’s Forest, N.S.W.
He writes: —
**. . . My first Holden was a business sedan
purchased in August 1954 . . . This car
travelled 123,653 miles on the original rings
and bearings . . .
I feel that it is due to your company that you
should know these facts and also that it is my
considered opinion that in pound for pound
value the Holden is so far ahead of other cars
in its price range that it is beyond com-
parison ...”
Letters like this give some idea of the
satisfaction that Holden owners enjoy.
But the best way to judge Holden is to
drive the car. Your Holden dealer would
welcome the opportunity to arrange this
for you. He will also be pleased to de-
monstrate or tell you about the many
outstanding Holden features. The 6
cylinder 21 h.p. performance and 30 m.p.g.
economy that many owners report, the
6 passenger comfort and roominess, the
low maintenance costs and high resale
value that have made Holden Australia’s
best car value at the low cost of from
£B7O plus tax.
For the fifth year in succession, Holden has
outsold all competitors. During 1955,
Holden official registrations were 45,012
compared with 13,917 registrations for the
next most popular car model. This three
to one lead in sales is further convincing
proof of Holden value.
The demand for Holden continues to be
heavy. May we suggest that you place your
order as soon as possible.
HOLDEN * Australia’s Own Car
LIST PRICES FROM £B7O PLUS TAX *Registered Trade Mark
Convenient hire purchase arrangements are available through GMAC.
“ Air Chief ” car radio is specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
a polo-horse for which he’d
refused £7O) out with them to
the station polo-ground and see
the colt’s finishing-lessons.
Sal,-who’d been broken-in by
the methods they were then
using, was more like a seat at
a picture-show under me than a
brumby, and the lesson the colt
got under George, playing
against Malcolm, was better to
watch than a Western with Buck
Rogers in the lead-part.
The polo-mallet gave the colt
no frights as it struck at the
ball. The colt sweated and
balked a bit till he began to
understand that he and George
were playing a game in which
the horse had to chase the white
ball, and make it easy for the
nice fellow with the stick to send
it galloping along the grass, and
that then the horse had to race
the ball and pass it so the nice
fellow could send it galloping
back the other way. Then there
was a race after it, and the colt
had to beat the horse Malcolm
was riding in the sprint to the
galloping white ball.
It was as easy as playing with
the foals in the paddock after
that. In a couple of hours,
sweating and flecked with foam,
but happy as a foal, the raw colt
was chasing the ball, wheeling
on a sixpence and leaning over
to give George a better reach,
like an old stock-horse drafting
on a cattle-camp.
“He’ll make a polo-horse,”
George said to me as we rode
home.
But to me the event of the
day was the way my brumby,
Sal, taught me to use the polo-
stick. The way she eased me on
the turns and waited for my
second shot when I missed the
ball caused joyous laughter. It
was incredible to me that she’d
been run-in out of a mob of
brumbies on the Bulloo, after
jumping a wire-fence to get away
when she got her first glimpse
of Malcolm amongst the
brumby-runners.
“We teach them to know that
man is the horse’s best friend,”
Malcolm, the man from the
Gulf, said to me . . .
And, touching this matter of
the brumbies that are now being
taught to play polo, there are
people keenly interested in form-
ing a company to capture
thousands of brumbies in the
vast.scrubs of Queensland, ana
put them through the slaughter-
house to be fodder for the grey-
hounds that chase the mechani-
cal hare in the interests of the
bookmakers. They’ve even
started hawking the flesh ot
horses in vans for these and for
cats and yapping poodles,,
Heaven forgive the stony-
hearted men who never loved a
good horse.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of the verse “Cursed
Drink,” the last eight lines of which
are: —
On yonder mountain’s sloping side
A lonely grave you’ll see,
All hung with grass and drooping moss
Beneatli a cedar-tree.
No marble cross, no monument
This lonely grave doth mark.
But we rudely carved his name
Deep in the growing bark.
6290
To buy copy of Bushland Ballads,
by E. J. Brady.—6293.
Copies of newspapers or magazines
containing criticisms of The Citadel,
by A. J. Cronin. —6295.
To sell complete set Historians’
History of the World, to 1907; 25
vols.; perfect condition. Gift at
£lO 10s. on rail Cairns (Q.). —6291.
Biographical details of James
Thomas, old-time Australian poet,
who wrote “To a Water Wagtail,”
which was reprinted in several
anthologies.—6294.
Two copies of The Bulletin of
September 2, 1953, containing
special supplement “Henry Lawson’s
Country,” wanted by Eurunderee
(N.S.W.) Provisional School. —6296.
Does Anybody Know?
Particulars about the following Aus-
tralian writers required for a literary
history: James Collier (place of birth
and date of death), George Colling-
ridge (dates of birth and death), Velia
Ercole (date and place of birth),
Edward Jenks (date of death), C.
H? Kirmess (place and date of birth
and death), Ida Lee (dates of birth
and death), F. S. Lock (dates of b’irth
and death), Alexander Macdonald
(date of death), Mary Mitchell (date
of birth), Alice Muskett (place and
date of birth), Esther Roland (place of
birth), J. W. Truran (date and place
of birth, and when he came to Aus-
tralia), A. R. Williams (date of birth),
E. J. Rule (date of birth)?—6292.
Information Sought
A recipe for (1) axle-grease and (2)
sand-soap ?
(1) Weigh and melt 81b. fat; stir-in
21b. finely-powdered blacklead; re-
move from heat and keep stirring
until mass solidifies. To make yellow
axle-grease, drop 2oz. powdered resin
into a pint of boiling water ; boil
slowly, stirring continuously till dis-
solved. Add 31b. clean tallow (prefer-
ably beef). Simmer over a slow fire
for approximately 2Qmin., keeping
well stirred. Addition of loz. bees-
wax gives the grease holding-power.
(2) Ingredients: 31b. fat that contains
no salt, caustic-soda, |lb. resin,
3gals. water, and lgal.-measure clean,
sharp sand. Put fat and water in a
kerosene-tin and heat until melted.
Add caustic-soda in small quantities,
stirring all the time, until all is
added. Grind resin to a powder and
add with the sand. Boil for 90min.,
and pour into a wet kerosene-tin to
set. When set, cut into pieces.
* * * V
Information on the Victorian
murderer Richard Buckley ?
Nicknamed “the Grey Ghost,” he
was born in Collingwood (Melbourne)
in 1864. At 19 he was sentenced to
jail and three floggings for robbery;
but after the lash and a brief sen-
tence he was found to have been
wrongfully arrested, and was released.
Whether, as is said, the unearned
flogging embittered him, or whether,
as is also claimed, he was already
becoming a criminal anyway, Buckley
from there on turned to crime; he
finished with a record of 60 convic-
tions for 71-years’ imprisonment,
mostly for crimes of violence, includ-
ing two murder counts. (Because of
remissions and concurrent sentences
he served only a fraction of the 71
years in prison.) In 1915 he was
associated with a man named Jackson
in the death of a police-constable in
a hold-up at Melbourne Trades Hall;
Jackson was hanged, while Buckley
got 12-years, though it was probably
he who actually shot the constable.
In 1922 Buckley was released, and
joined forces with the then notorious
“Squizzy” Taylor. Taylor planned,
and Buckley and one Angus Murray
carried out, the armed robbery of a
Glenferrie bank-manager (Oct., 1923),
in which Berriman, the bank-manager,
was fatally wounded. Murray was
soon caught and hanged, but Buckley,
who here again had actually fired the
shot, evaded capture until 1930, when
he was tried and sentenced to death,
commuted to life-imprisonment by a
Labor Government. He was released
in 1946 on the ground of failing
health, but lived on at Port Mel-
bourne for another seven years. He
died on Sept. 15, 1953, aged 90.
(1) Areas of West and East Ger-
many ? (2) Populations ? (3) What
is the respective industrial potential
of the two parts of Germany ?
All figures given are from the 1956
Whitaker’s Almanack: (l) West
Germany, 96,700 square-miles ; East
Germany, 41,400 square-miles. (2)
West Germany, 49,278,000, East Ger-
many, 17,314,000. (3) The western
part of the country has always housed
the great industries of Germany,
based on the coal- and steel-industries
of the Ruhr. West Germany’s
secondary-industry has made big
advances in recent years, and West
Germany is now a strong competitor
in world-markets. Some monthly
figures for 1953 point to this advance
when compared with 1936 monthly
figures (in parentheses): 30,762 cars
(14,520); 127,715 tons of sulphuric-
acid (88,166 tons); 26,660 tons of
chlorine (8214); 28,601 tons of cotton
yam (22,983) ; 8792 tons of woollen
yarn (3942). East' Germany is more
unbalanced, from an economic view-
point. It is more nearly self-
sufficient in food, but has few
industrial raw materials apart from
brown-coal and copper ore. There is
light-industry in Berlin, Saxony and
Thuringia, the extent of which in
these days is not accurately known.
Before the war what secondary-
industry there was in East Germany
was dependent on the Ruhr for coal
and steel.
Brief Answers
C.R.M.: From the photographs,
probably William Carter, Tooley-
street, London, about 1760. The
spring, of plain ribbon-brass, is pro-
bably a replacement for the original
steel spring ; the case is typical mid-
18th-century style. Auction-market
value would be approximately 75-
lOOgns... .F.F.: Suggest that you get
in touch with A. T. Latham, Sec-
retary, Royal Historical Society of
Victoria, Broken Hill Chambers, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.... G.R.A.:
The article on J, F. Archibald
appeared in The Bulletin of Jan-
uary 11, 1956... .G.M.G.: An
obituary paragraph regarding Captain
F. C. C. Pasco, R.N., appeared in
the “Personal Items” page of The
Bulletin of September 28, 1955
P.W.: The first number of The
Bulletin appeared on January 31,
1880 S.G.: Any of the following
Sydney firms should be able to help:
S. Lipscombe, 183 Castlereagh-street;
Mason’s Fine Arts, 165 Castlereagh-
street ; Max Patmoy’s, 175 Castle-
reagh-street; G. D. Doling, 127
Macquarie-street; and Newman’s
Antiques, 212 Castlereagh-street
D.F.: The Henry Lawson Memorial
and Literary Society meets at
McE w a n House (fourth-floor),
corner Elizabeth-street and Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, on the third
Saturday of each month at 3 p.m.
Write the Secretary, L. P. Hutchinson,
30 Lynch-street, Footscray (Vic.)
C.McG.: The Flower Paintings of
Albert Sherman is obtainable from
leading booksellers at £4 4s. per copy.
....V.O’D.: (1) Full particulars are
obtainable from A. G. Millett, Worthy
Scribe, Melbourne Bread and Cheese
Club, 10 Watkins-street, North Fitz-
roy (Vic.). (2) Write Zoe O’Leary, Sec-
retary, Fellowship of Australian
Writers (N.S.YJ.), 38 Clarence-street,
Sydney H.A.: A daughter of the
late John Haynes, Miss Edith Haynes,
resides at Gladswood House, Glads-
wood Gardens, Double Bay (Sydney).
W.C.A.: Frank Jessup’s first
black-and-white drawing for The
Bulletin appeared in the issue of
February 4, 1909; his subsequent total
would be about 400, and there have
also been occasional paragraphs and
verses from his pen. He lives at
Brighton - le - Sands (Sydney)....
H.G.S.: Australian novelist Alys
Brown died in Sydney on January 19,
1956... .C.McL.: “The Lone Hand”
of March, 1908, printed “Henry Law-
son’s Early Days,” a condensation of
the poet’s never-completed autobio-
graphy N.H.: Arnold Wall’s poem
“The Weather” appeared in The
Bulletin of September 28, 1955.. 1.
A.R.C.: Article “Pittman Technique,”
by “Clover,” appeared in “The Man
on the Land” page of The Bulletin
of January 25, 1956.
Words and author of the verse
that contains the line “I am the Grey
Convenience that works the White
Man’s ease” ?
The line begins the poem “A
Camel’s Version,” by R. J. Cassidy,
which appeared as an illustrated full-
page in the May, 1912, issue of the
“Lone Hand.” It goes:—
I am the Grey Convenience that works
the White Man’s ease ;
The sombre ship that sprawls across the
sandy silent seas.
I am the Thing because of which the
Sunset People eat;
I bear their empty bellies’ needs —liquor
and bread and meat.
I am no painted plaything; odoriferous
with myrrh ;
In truth I am a driven Thing—a lean,
grey-coated cur!
A unit of the caravan, my pilgrimage is
ta’en
To where the blazing sunset blurs in
clotted pools of pain.
I am the weighted envoy from the sordid,
soulless mart;
I am the messenger of Love, of Literature
and Art.
For ever from the far-off towns each
much-desired thing—
Emporiums in miniature my balanced
bundles bring!
The Sheep King by the Border Gates
stares slyly down the Pad,
Because I bear the gifts to make his
sun-kissed daughter glad.
The shantykeepers by the way my
twirling dust-clouds note,
Because I bear the Lethe dew to wet the
“cheque-man’s” throat.
My coming, too, is waited at the Half-
Way store and pub,
Because my bills of lading give tobacco,
beer and “grub”;
Piano-music for the room behind the
bawdy bar—•
The siren-songs that hypnotise Delilah’s
Lochinvar!
From Bourke to Thargomindah; from the
Cliffs to Broken Hill,
The Desert brown my province is where
I must earn my fill.
A hunch-backed, ever-driven slave, to
sate the White Man’s need,
I crouch and crawl; I lurch and sprawl
—aa exile of my breed 1
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
K.E.: We’re returning that faithful
hound to his kennel C.C.W.:
Reads like an exchange of solicitors’
letters F.M.: Pathetic little tale
about the young woman who had
mumps on her wedding-day drew
tears from all the office 5.N.1.:
Reads like an abridgment of Uncle
Tom’s Cabin with a back-o’-Bourke
setting F.N.D.’: You retrace your
steps too often... .W.A.D.: Seeing
you’re a fatalist its rejection will not
disturb you... .M.L.8.: Who told
you we printed fairy-stories?
W.S.: In the arty-tarty class—
F.G.: Poem is little more than an
inventory of a flapper’s wardrobe.
J.L.W.: Don’t yearn for sonnets
like “By the fell blast of Love’s des-
pairing moan” A.A.: Keep away
from shooting-galleries -if that’s how
they make you feel 8.C.M.: A;
least you find a new rhyme for this
continent of ours:
They clutter the long winding road
With broken-down cars that goad
Me to curse their out-of-date parapher-
nalia,
A disgrace to all motoring Australia.
L.A.R.: Only thing memorable
about the iceman story is that it
arrived on a hot day H.C.8.:
Hullo, has the old swagman gone and
died again? H.G.H.: There never
was, and never will be, an eccentric
detective like that E.R.: It takes a
wonderfully good poet to get away
with that sort of moralising—
L.W.H.: Tired of mere descriptions
of bush weddings, funerals, christen-
ings, picnics and dances C.A.:
Thin plot and guide-book description.
.... J.E.: “Downfall” suffered its
title R.McN.: No wish to “listen
to the echo of the laughter from the
mountain top” L. 0.: You can
have your dingo back D.D.: It
was never meant for us M.R.C.:
Sorry, but the office is full of Easter
moons J.W.: The same applies to
gumtrees S.S/: You will have to
discover another paddock for those
sheep.... C.S.: It might find a corner
in a women’s paper P.M.:
Grieved to hear that your heart was
broken R.L.: You can’t shed
those bitter tears in our pages
1.L.: It did not live up to its promis-
ing opening:
The mildewed population bleats
“We need gondolas in the streets!”
R.N.C.: We, too, are tempted to
ask “Why?” V.R.: About 957
other poets have said exactly the same
thing since the beginning of the New
Year L.C.: Room for one stanza
of your poem about Johnny Ray:—
They’ll pinch and bite and kiss him,
And hug him in delight,
Pester him for autographs,
Till his hand’s too tired to write.
Astounding! Yes, indeed it is
Illuminating, too,
It proves that we’re not far removed
From the monkeys in the zoo.
J J.: We felt happier when that
vulture made its way back to
Wahroonga R.D.L.: How com-
forting it must be to be “inside oul
of reach of the wings of- fury.”


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.
With wholly owned V
HASTINGS DEERING (QUEENSLAND) PTY. LTD.
HASTINGS DEERING (NEW GUINEA) PTY. LTD.
HASTINGS DEERING (N.T.) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE, INNISFAIL, DALBY. MACKAY, INGHAM, ATHERTON, MT. ISA, ALICE SPRINGS, DARWIN, PORT MORESBY, LAE.
DAM
CONSTRUCTION
Northern Territory
Caterpillar Diesel Equipment used
In excavating.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £5,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £1 each
1,371,545 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each
. £2,000,000
OPENED FOR SUBSCRIPTION ON Ist MARCH, 1956
With the Right to Accept an Over-subscription
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each at par for cash 300,000
2,300,000 £2,300,000
HELD IN RESERVE
2,700,000 Shares of £1 each £2,700,000
5,000,000 £5,000,000
FLOOD CONTROL
Queensland
tS
.•^8
Caterpillar Tractor with Bulldozer budding
levee.
These are “The Tools” wish which Musßralia develops its
National Resources and strengthens its Deiences
AERODROME CONSTRUCTION
Darwin
mm
V'*/h4W
jri
Two Caterpillar Diesel Tractors clearing brash load with
300-foot chain.
URANIUM MINING
Rum Jungle, Darwin
Lima Shovel with 2-yard dipper loading rook strippings.
The principal of 17 franchises held are:
• CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., of Peoria,
U.S.A., owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
Caterpillar Diesel Tractors.
Caterpillar Earth-moving Equipment for:
STATE OF QUEENSLAND
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA
SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS
• JOHN DEERE, C.A., of Illinois, U.S.A. John
Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same
territories.
• BALDWIN - LIMA - HAMILTON CORPORA-
TION, of Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels
and Draglines for the whole of Australia.
CLOSING ON OR BEFORE 30th JUNE, 1956 I
HASTINGS DIESELS
FINANCIAL HISTORY
Consolidated
Net Profits '
After Tax. Dividends.
Year ended 31st August, 1953 ... £71*977 12}%
Year ended 31st August, 1954 . £118,940 12}%
Year ended 31st August, 1955 ... £202,141 12}%
(FIGURES FROM AUDITED ACCOUNTS)
This record of well-advised management and sound
operation of valuable franchises augurs well for the
future development and profits of the Company.
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to partici-
pate in returns and dividends from the expanded future
operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.
1
GOLD MINING
New
Guinea
Caterpillar Tractor with
Bulldozer engaged in
earth-moving.
COAL MINING Queensland
at!
Lima Skevol a* work oa cm opea-cat.
ROAD BUILDING
Northern
Territory
ma.
'W
Caterpillar
Motor Grader
oa road work.
LAND CLEARING, LOGGING
M
&
JSr
-z» jr *
VJT*
New Guinea 1
Caterpillar Diesel Traetor hauling
five big logs at once.
SUGAR CANE, PINEAPPLES
Queensland
Caterpillar Diesel Tractor ased
in cultivating.
—arts**-.
* v * a S*Hv
ri^
WHEAT
—Dalby, Queensland
n,\
&
Y lf /i
*St
(t/j*
* %
w
41
s't
VJsJi
THE DIRECTORS RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CLOSE
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE ON OR BEFORE 12 NOON, SATURDAY, 80th JUNE, 1966.
THE ISSUE AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE.
For public information only. This is not a Prospectus or an advertisement of a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe to the shares mentioned herein.
Cat and Caterpillar are registered trademarks of Caterpillar Tractor Co., U.S.A.
NOTE: The issue
has been over-
subscribed and the
Directors are
accepting an over-
subscription.
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Ltd.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus for new ordinary shares.
Name
Address.
B*s


The fact that lambs
“mother-up” quickly
after being marked
and tailed by Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
is definite evidence
that this method
causes insignificant
shock and set-back.
In the opinion of
many graziers the
mild effect resulting
from the use of Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
is the reason why
lambs so treated lose
little condition.
"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
me n t illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
vow nearest State
Distributor for free paritato**
for free derrConstratwn of the atwcn
ments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative L to "
46 Yeung St.. Sydney. BU 1511.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd-.
William St., Melbourne. MU I ® 1 :.
S. ACS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd «
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1 " 1 :
(i’JLAJs L>: Buzacott’s (Qiand) Ltd -
448 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland U
U's York St., Launceston. W. Ab»--
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Lta.
74 Castlereagb St., Sy due} •
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ADVANCES IN VETERINARY RESEARCH (2)
[ln this article the Director of
Veterinary Research at Glenfield
continues his interesting account
of the outstandingly important
contributions made by Australian
research-workers to world know-
ledge of sheep-, cattle- and other
animal-diseases and their treat-
ment.]
A/ff YCOTIC DERMATITIS
was identified by Dr. L. B.
Bull and shown to be caused by
a fungus, Actinomyces derma-
tonomous. Edgar and Keast
found that the disease was not
restricted to sheep, but is capable
of infecting horses and cattle.
,Scabby-mouth, or infectious
labial. dermatitis, is a consider-
able industrial nuisance, as well
as causing economic loss to fat-
lamb breeders. It is caused by
a virus of the Variola group, to
which man shows some degree of
susceptibility. Hayston, working
at the Veterinary Research
Station, Glenfield, produced a
vaccine which offers a high
degree of protection and has
proved of inestimable benefit in
districts where the disease is
enzootic.
There has probably been no
greater factor in the economic
losses to the sheep-and-wool in-
dustry than that caused by blow-
fly-strike. Seddon, Belschner and
Mulheame presented the initial
clear picture of why sheep are
struck.
They indicated that it was pos-
sible to classify sheep in their
relative susceptibility to crutch-
strike. The essential factor was
the existence of skin-folds and
wrinkles in the perineal region.
The plain-breech sheep was
rarely struck, susceptibility to
strike increasing in proportion to
the degree of wrinkliness or fold-
development.
Tillyard and his co-workers
identified the flies involved in
primary and secondary strikes,
and subsequently Mules, in
South Australia, evolved a tech-
nique for the removal of breech-
folds. This has become known
as the Mules operation: it was
subsequently modified by Gill
and Graham. Its value now
widely recognised, it is adopted
as standard practice in’ sheep-
husbandry in many parts of the
Commonwealth.
Body-strike is effectively con-
trolled today by jetting with
either of the two newer chlorin-
ated hydrocarbons, Dieldrin and
•Aldrin. The latter, whilst more
expensive, gives a more pro-
tracted degree of protection.
The work of McClymont and
Setehell at the Glenfield Research
Station during the last two years
has made a major contribution to
our knowledge of the problem of
lamb-sickness, or pregnancy
toxaemia of ewes. These workers
have shown that any reduction of
the blood-sugar-level in pregnant
ewes during the last month of
pregnancy is critical, causing
permanent damage of certain
parts of the brain and death of
the ewe. Early treatment by
administering 4oz. of glycerine
in a pint of water leads to
recovery of appetite and to
normal lambing.
There has been remarkable
progress in the knowledge of
parasitology in the last 50 years.
This has been advanced con-
siderably by the studies of
Clunies Ross, and later Gordon,
in this important problem of
the sheep-industry. New and
more efficient anthelmintics have
been developed.
As a result of the work of
Turner and Gregory, the know-
ledge of contagious pleuro-
pneumonia has been advanced
a hundredfold in the last 25
years. Methods of diagnosis have
been improved considerably, and
means of control through culture-
vaccine make it probable that
in the not-far-distant future this
disease will be restricted.
The work of Murn'ane in
identification and treatment of
bovine mastitis —a big problem
in the dairy-industry—has been
a factor of considerable signi-
ficance in curtailing economic
loss in the lactating cow. Mur-
nane showed the value of peni-
cillin in treating streptococcal
mastitis, and many cows which
some years ago would have been
non-productive units are quickly
back in production as a result of
the use of antibiotics by means of
udder-infusion.
In January this year we saw
the commencement of an eradi-
cation programme against the
cattle-tick in the north-eastern
corner of N.S.W. This parasite
has been responsible for
enormous economic loss, both
from cattle-tick infestation, with
its resultant hide-destruction,
and tick-fever, caused by the
small blood-parasite conveyed by
a proportion of the ticks.
Eradication of this parasite from
N.S.W., and the subsequent ex-
tension of the programme into
Queensland, will prove of major-
significance to the cattle-indus-
tries in the north.
There has been a remarkable
advance over the last 50 years
in the knowledge of nutritional
diseases. In certain areas stock
were known to chew bones, and
this used to be vaguely attributed
to “something” associated with
climate. Later it was suspected
that the ration was deficient in
calcium and phosphorus. The
importance of the balance of
these essential elements has been
clearly demonstrated.
The condition known as en-
zootic merasmus in Western
Australia was demonstrated by
the spectacular work of Filmer
and Underwood as being due
to cobalt-deficiency. This, and
so-called Renmark-disease in
cattle, can now be prevented and
cured by the administration of
infinitesimal amounts of cobalt-
salts.
The importance of cobalt and
copper has been shown by
Marston and his c6-workers in
their important investigations of
coast-disease in South Australia ;
this development has resulted in
much country formerly regarded
as worthless being brought into
production.
Similarly, in Western Aus-
tralia, enzootic ataxia in sheep
has been shown by Bennetts to
be responsive to small amounts
of copper. These findings have
given a lead to workers in other
parts of the world on similar
problems.
Toxaemic jaundice, the serious
problem of the fat-lamb industry
on the irrigation-areas of south-
ern Australia, has been shown
to consist of two entities: one an
abnormal condition of the liver
arising from a hepatotoxic alka-
loid in the plant Heliotropium
europceum, and in the second
form of the disease due to
chronic copper-poisoning.
Also, in the last 50 years there
has been a remarkable advance
in Australia in knowledge of
plants which are poisonous to
livestock.
In the poultry-industry, too,
there has been remarkable de-
velopment on the research side
during the last two decades.
It is fortunate that Australia is
one of the two countries in the
world which are free of the in-
dustry’s greatest scourge, New-
“ Where they been all their lives? Don't
know semaphore !”
castle-disease. A lot of knowledge
has accumulated on the incidence
and methods of control of the
infectious diseases of poultry in
Australia, and the development
of a vaccine against the spiro-
chaete disease, fowl-tick fever,
has enabled the poultry-industry
to continue on a profit-making
basis in inland districts.
Today there are clear signs that
within Australia production from
animal-industries is steadily
rising. The goal laid down by the
Standing Committee of Agricul-
ture for beef-production, which
was to be achieved by 1957, was
passed in 1955, two years ahead
of the programme. Since the
1952-53 season the average wool-
cut per head in the Common-
wealth has increased by nearly
21b., and we have also seen a
corresponding increase in pro-
duction of dairy-products.
The two most significant
factors which can be held
responsible are the increase in
the area of sown pastures and the
very remarkable reduction in the
rabbit-population resulting from
the effects of myxomatosis, which
has probably been the cheapest
campaign in significantly reduc-
ing the effect of a pest in the
history of mankind.
Grahame Edgar.
Clean Fallows
“Paignie”: Hormone - weedi-
cides have not removed the need
for clean fallows —particularly
when barrel-medic is undersown
with a cereal in the Mallee.
Experiments at Walpeup (Vic.)
Research Station have shown
that even the small quantities of
weedkiller normally used to con-
trol wild-turnip cause a severe
reduction in the number of
medic-plants.
Survivors are smaller and set
less seed. As little as 4oz. per
acre of M.C.P.A. or 2,4-D can
reduce the number of burrs set
by 60 to 80 per cent. Half-a-
pound of M.C.P.A. or amine
2,4-D, or 4oz. of ester 2,4-D, can
wipe out the medic.
The effect of weedicides is not
so bad after pastures become
thoroughly established. There
should be enough hard seeds for
re-establishment, even if a
current year’s growth is elimin-
ated.
Cyclone-hit
Canefarmers
“Beroo”: The pioneers didn’t
have all the tough land-battling
on their own.
I have just been through the
North Queensland cane-country,
where “Agnes,” the great cyclone
of early March, cut loose for a
hectic couple of days. She
waltzed against the Queensland
coast near Proserpine, some 90
miles to the north of Mackay,
then bounced off to sea again.
In passing, she dropped a few
inches of rain on the important,
irrigated cane-area of the Lower
Burdekin, but the winds were
comparatively mild there, and
the effects were less severe than
those of the 1941 blow.
The Burdekin River canelands
are flooded only when the great
catchment-area—largest of any
on the east coast of Australia —
receives widespread rains, and
although, seen from the air, the
mile-wide river was a tawny mass
of surging water it was well con-
fined, and the fields little affected.
The open forest north of
Townsville showed the uprooted
paperbarks of the swamps, with
the black ironbarks still solid
and erect. The forest was easy
to see through, and one
wondered why, until it was noted
that all the leayes of the standing
trees were gone. The great, flat
plain of the Herbert was wet
and soggy.
There, up to 18-inches of rain
had come in with the blow, and
Ingham, with two great mills and
their canelands and the smaller
settlements, had a mouldy, water-
soaked appearance.
On closer inspection the
mouldiness proved to be what
it looked like —mould.
The fields and the cane were
wet; but, then, that great grass
loves heat and moisture, and it
was growing at an incredible rate,
making-up for the lost growth
of the preceding dry weeks.
North from Tully the winds
had come tumbling down from
the mountains to the west, and,
like all descending winds, they
were unpredictable. One farmer
near Tully lost half his roof
during the night and knew noth-
ing of it until sleepless eyes went
appraising damage in the morn-
ing. A few points of rain had
driven in with the screaming
gale and the house was wet by
spurts of water through doors
and windows. By midnight the
house was bone-dry, but he
hadn’t a clue as to when the
iron went from his roof. He
would not have heard an acre
of iron on the move that night;
nothing could have added to the
fearful din.
The jungle-clad mountains to
the west and the odd forested
hills showed the fantastic pattern
of the great wind. There were
irregular tracks down the slopes
where not a tree had a leaf,, and
spurs and gullies alike showed
their bare bones to the sky.
The jungle trees, supposedly
soft and lush, stood stark and
bare, but still sheltering the great
masses of ferns in their branches.
Hardly a single one had fallen,
but how the spiny lawyer-cane
could be disentangled from them
without pulling them down is
one of Nature’s mysteries.
There seemed no rhyme or
reason in the pattern of the
stripped areas: here an exposed
knoll had suffered, while a mile
away another was perfectly
normal; or a gully might be
bare, as the one which funneled
the wind to wreck the Hamble-
don Mill sugar-storage shed, and
the next gully on the * ridge
seemed to have every leaf Intact.
In the open valley which pro-
vides Babinda, Mulgrave and
Hambledon with nearly a million
tons of sugarcane each year, the
damage was as variable as on
the mountainsides. North of
Cairns, there was little damage
to the well-advanced cane,
although Cairns itself suffered
severely.
Further south, towards
Gordonvale, where Hambledon
Mill nestles at the flat-land’s
edge, the cane was a hideous
sight.
Sugarcane is a hardy, resilient
kind of plant, and it can take
most buffetings with a yielding
tolerance which sends it upright
again within a day or two. Some
varieties did respond in this'
fashion, but others collapsed.
The popular, high - yielding
Pindar, for instance, snapped-off
at the top of the fully-formed
stalk. There are now thousands
of acres of this cane in which
not a single intact top remains.
The well-grown crops snapped
maybe 4ft. or sft. from the
ground, the less-advanced at 2ft.
or so.
Everyone, from the local bank-
manager down, is asking what is
going to happen to these crops,
and the answer isn’t clear. Noth-
ing like this ever happened
before.
We know that the top-buds,
already bursting into growth
now that the formerly dominat-
ing top-growing point has gone,
will keep the stalks alive, but
will there be any sugar in the
damaged stalks? Late-growth
buds such as these will not pro-
vide sufficient leaf-area to make
and store sugar before the cooler
weather slows their activities.
Maybe they will make some


\\» / /
\
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF - USE IT/N OR OUT OF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY iRD PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
DRENCH
REGULARLY
TO
CONTROL
WORMS
WITH
SICKLE
2
I
• Preserves high wool quality
and top prices by eliminating
worms.
• Controls worm parasites in
sheep and most domestic
animals.
• Ready mixed.
• Finely milled to give the cor-
rect particle size.
AVAILABLE IN QUART BOTTLES
AND I GALLON TINS
r
SICKLE BRAND
3k
Made in Australia by
COMMONWEALTH
FERTILISERS & CHEMICALS LTD.
Regd. Office: 65 William Street, Melbourne, C.l
by late spring, but will the old
stalks remain free from rots for
all that time?
Farmers and Sugar Bureau
researchers alike are unable to
forecast what will happen to the
decapitated blocks. In those less
damaged there will undoubtedly
be some compensation by in-
creased growth of intact stalks,
but the twisted, tangled mass
of canes at all states of maturity
(including also many dead stalks
which snapped-off at the base)
will be an awful headache at
harvest-time. It will be virtually
impossible to determine the best
time to harvest, as maturity-
tests will be unreliable; and
canecutters will seek to avoid
harvesting such a mess except
at substantial penalty-rates.
Research will be hampered by
loss of field-trials, although it is
reported that the destruction of
the large, seedling glasshouse at
the Northern Sugar Experiment
Station will not interfere with
the cane-seedling work. The seed
stored-over from last season’s
successful cross-pollination will
be available if current parental
canes fail to flower.
It’s an ill wind, though . . .
for all commercial and near-
commercial varieties have now
had their wind-reaction accu-
rately tabbed, and once more the
folly of having all the eggs in the
one varietal basket has been
brought home to every cane-
farmer in the North.
Russian-comfrey
I was particularly interested
in W. F. Savage’s “M.0.L.”
article (B. 14/3/’56), as I, too,
have been claiming to have the
only patch of this plant in Aus-
tralia, having been assured so
by the Customs Department.
For some years I have been
interested in Russian-comfrey,
and while visiting England in
1954 my wife spent some months
on Mrs. P. B. Greer’s farm in
Essex, gaining experience of it.
After several months’ effort I
at last secured a permit to
establish a quarantine-nursery,
and imported rootlings from
England 12 months ago. It is now
well established here at Casula
(N.S.W.), and we can confirm
all Mr. Savage says about its
prolific growth and value as
feed for all classes of stock. It
has been found here that the
leaves, used as a poultice, have
certain healing properties. It is
also an excellent protein-rich
vegetable, used as a “green” like
spinach and in soup.
We shall be glad to show the
plot to anybody interested in it.
J. F. Leacock.
(Director, Glenfield Community
Health Society.)
recQrd here
lished in 1899 by London
“Times,” which states that com-
frey of this type was introduced
to Australia:
Symphytum a genus of
gamopetalous plants. About 17
species are known, natives of
Europe, northern Africa, and
western Asia, and occasionally
naturalised elsewhere, as S .
officinale in the eastern United
States, known as comfrey. S.
tuberosum with pale-yellow and
S. asperrimum with light-blue
flowers are occasionally culti-
vated for ornament. The latter,
the prickly comfrey, is also a
forage-plant, said to support
large flocks and herds in the
Caucasus, its native region. It
has excited much interest and
to some extent been introduced
elsewhere, especially in Australia;
it is a hardy plant, yielding
heavily, and is relished by cattle
after they have become accus-
tomed to it, though commonly
refused by them at first.”
Also, it is sometimes known as
“boneset,” from its reputed medi-
cinal powers.
One wonders what has become
of the plants that apparently
were grown in this country at
the turn of the century. Possibly
our rabbit-population had some-
thing to do with the disappear-
ance. Does any reader recall any
earlier plantings?
L. Buchanan May.
Dairy-breeds dt
Sydney
“J. 8.”: The Royal Easter
show has come and gone, and
the dairy-cattle have returned
to their various pastures. The
i„ g some of the best Friesian
cattle, this year we imported one
of the best brains behind the
breeding of the Bntrsh Fnesran
John E Moffitt of Penrith
(Eng.), to judge them.
Mr. Moffitt created a mild
sensation by not awarding the
champion-cow ribbon to V. J.
Lamond, thereby breaking a
Royal Sydney tradition of 25
years’ standing. However, “the
Master” had the satisfaction of
knowing that the champion,
A. S. R. Shearer and Sons’
Wyoming Mary May, was out
of a Brundee cow; reserve-
champion was Lamond’s Wattle
Bank Sadie.
The champion Friesian bull
was J. Calcraft’s Fintdave Re-
union (imp., U.K.), an excellent
bull that had his due for the
first time since shown here;
reserve-champion was another
imported bull (from N.Z.), Ray
Bros.’ Tokaora Wallace.
The sudden death of H. T.
Dunkley, of Capel (W.A.), who
was to have judged the Ad.S.
cattle, caused a great loss to the
breed and the Australian
industry. E. Swan, a leading
farmer from Jamberoo (N.S.W.),
judged the breed.
The Dudgeon brothers, after
an absence of two years, made
an excellent comeback at the
Showground by winning the cow-
championship with their Park-
view Fussy 106th ; although dry,
she looked very well, and is an
excellent animal. Reserve-
champion was G. E. Chittick’s
Bodalla Pleasure sth. Champion
bull was W. Waddell and Sons’
Afton Design, with Chittick’s
Alne Field Regent runner-up:
both bulls fine specimens of their
breed.
Ayrshires were judged by Vic-
torian breeder S. G. Muhlebach,
of Bayesford. He chose Den-
bigh Gentle 77th, owned by
Mclntosh Bros., of Camden
(N.S.W.), as champion cow, with
F. A. Mclntosh’s Woodside Park
Afterthought as reserve-cham-
pion. The Mclntosh family
have done a great deal for the
breed in Australia, with wise
importations and sound breed-
ing.
Champion bull was the South
Australian - bred Glengowrie
Baron Bolderwood, owned by
R. J. O’Donnell, with Mclntosh
Bros.’ Uroonda Master Jean
runner-up. The latter bull sired
the champion cow, while his sire
was Glengowrie Baron Land-
lord, also bred in South Aus-
tralia by Mr. Facie —a studman
who seems to enjoy a consid-
erable success at Sydney without
exhibiting.
Jerseys were there in great
number. The judge, E. W.
Flower, of Binna Burra (N.S.W.),
must have had great difficulty in
choosing between the two top
cows, as the one he placed
reserve Kameruka Estate’s
Easter Bonnet Jessie, a dry cow
—is one of the best-looking cows
brought here from the Isle of
Jersey. Which indicates that the
champion —F. C. Emery’s Thel-
maville Lexies Favorite —is
something really outstanding.
In the bull section, Theo Grey,
of Albion Park (N.S.W.), created
what is believed to be a Jersey-
record for Sydney by leading-in
the same champion, Oxford
Lincoln, for the fifth successive
year. Reserve was The Hills
Royal Design, a good type bull
owned by E. P. Braithwaite, of
Wyong (N.S.W.).
Victorian breeder A. Fixter,
of Boisdale, judged the Guern-
seys. N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture exhibited both the
champion cow, Wollongbar Miss
Karamar, and the champion bull,
Wollongbar Vera’s Royalist, as
well as the junior female-cham-
pion. Reserve cow was D.
McKenzie’s Spurfield Tips Val,
reserve bull E. E. Cooke’s
Moongi Jamines Boy 3rd, a son
of the successful Moongi
Pleasant Lad.
A new breed at the Show this
year was the Dairy Shorthorn —
true dual-purpose cattle, heavier
than the A. 1.5., and very popular
in England. They were housed
with the beef-cattle, which didn’t
altogether do their milkihg-
qualities justice: although, no
doubt, as elsewhere in N. S.
Wales, there is a housing-short-
age at the Showground.
G. Kerr, of Bacchus Marsh
(Vic.), judged the breed, and
selected Willow Park Rosebud
27th as champion cow and
Willow Park Moss Rose 79th as
reserve—both, with the cham-
pion bull, Kelmscott Gay Lord
73rd (imp.), owned by Atkin-
son Bros., of Swan Hill (Vic.).
Willow Park Gay Baron 15th,
owned by S. T. Howes, of
Drouin (Vic.), was reserve bull.
On the second day of judging
there was an interesting line-up
for the production-and-type
prizes. The first was a progeny
one, donated by N. B. Love Pty.,
Ltd., judged on the basis of 100
points for type and conforma-
tion of four cows, the progeny
of one sire, and 1 point for every
1001 b. of milk above age- and
breed-standards. Winners in the
various sections were: Ayr-
shires, F. A. Mclntosh; A. 1.5.,
Richardson Bros.; Friesians,
A. S. R. Shearer and Sons;
Jersey, C. F. Gallard; Guernsey,
E. W. Everett.
The second special prize was the
John Darling Shield for an inter-
breed competition, judged on a
basis of 100 points for type for
the five cows representing each
breed, and 1 point for every 501 b.
of milk above age- and breeci-
standards set, all milk being
brought to 4 per cent, fat-
corrected basis by the Gaines
formula. The winning team
were Friesians three Shearer
cows, one each entered by J. H.
Wilson and C. K. and J. C. Hill.
Third new prize was another
John Darling one, for the
supreme champion dairy-cow of
the Show, judged on a basis of
100 points for type and 1 point
for every 501 b. of milk above
12001 b., all milk, again, being
brought to the 4 per cent, fat-
corrected level. Berry Matilda
23rd, a Child Welfare Depart-
ment, cow, won the prize, with
Shearer’s Wyoming Mary May
runner-up. The judging was
done in, front of a large and
interested crowd, and the cheer-
ing and clapping when the result
was announced was a personal
triumph for George Heptimstall,
studman at the Berry Training
Farm.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(1/4/’56)
Under the Single cycle, general rains should occur in
a large part of Queensland during May, with further heavy
falls on the northern coast. However, the south-west and
far-western division should have mainly light, patchy rains.
Light, patchy rain* should occur in most ‘of N.S.W.
during May, although moderate rains may occur in the
northern areas. Copious rains are likely during the winter
months. «
The season should commence with general rains during
May in both Victoria and South Australia, although in the
latter State the Murray Valley and far-north interior may
have only light rain.
Heavy general rains should occur in the south-west of
W.A. during May, with good falls in part of the West Gas-
coyne. Rainfall should be light and patchy elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
N.S.W. Ambulance-services
The entire population of N. S. Wales is
served by 73 district-ambulances, some
of which have one or two branches. The
estimated cost of running these is
£700,000 a year, of which the State Gov-
ernment allocates £lOO,OOO to be divided
among the various districts according to
the number of employees—a two-man
station receives about £BO a month.
Recent wage-increases have caused an-
other rise in costs —£120,000—0 f which
the State Government will provide
£20,000.
The other two eastern States are a
little more generous with advances to
their ambulance-services. Victoria con-
tributes on a 50-50 basis and Queens-
landers receive £1 10s. for each £1 Is.
they raise for a specific purpose. The
N. S, Wales Goveriiment’s allocation
doesn’t cover the wages of the men
employed.
Within the , next six months some
N. S. Wales districts are going to find it
yery hard to get by without further
assistance from the Cahill Government.
The Ambulance Act provides that dis-
tricts maintain a list of annual sub-
scribers, together with donors, these to
be the backbone of their bank-accounts.
After that, devices such as housie-housie,
spinning-wheels and sports-meetings may
be resorted to. Then the few unfortu-
nates who are transported as non-sub-
scribers pay their fees, if possible. There
are also the auxiliaries, which raise
further money.
The country-ambulance working-week
was lately reduced to 40-hours and a rise
in wages was announced. This is by no
means an unmixed blessing—the men
still have to raise their pay at numerous
functions and now have only 40 hours
in which to do it all.
Too many of these functions (begging,
in other words) reduce the list of sub-
scribers, who drop-off in the belief that
they support the service well enough as
it is. It also makes travelling-showmen
of a body of men trained to meet
emergencies at any and all hours.
No assistance is received from the
State Government for new buildings,
vehicles or land, etc. Sales-tax is deducted
from all purchases, but that doesn’t help
much.
A recent request to the N. S. Wales
Government to assist the ambulance-
services on a 50-50 basis, or take the
service over entirely, was refused without
any explanation as to why such an im-
portant public service should be so poorly
supported.
Almost any issue of a local newspaper
records how ambulance-men are saving
lives and relieving suffering, or risking
their own necks to extricate someone
from electric-wires,, swim swollen creeks
or drive at dangerous speeds for exhaust-
ing hours. It’s all in their day’s work.
The men don’t want publicity, but they
would appreciate sufficient Government
support to relieve their service of some of
its financial difficulties.
The N. S. Wales Police Force is paid by
the State. Why not do the same with the
ambulance-service?— Oxygen (N.S.W.).
Melbourne Gallery
Melbourne’s National Gallery has
lately been described by its director as
“a lot of pathetic, smoke-grimed, useless
classic columns which are supposed to
imbue us with the idea that we are enter-
ing a cultural cloister.” He added that
it ought to be abandoned and its contents
removed to a more commodious site
across the Yarra.
I have always thought that the century-
old building was one of the few remain-
ing architectural gems of Melbourne, that
the grime rather enhanced the sombre
dignity of the facade, and that Rem-
brandt, El Greco, Titian, Tintoretto and
Tiepolo wouldn’t have wished for a
better place to hang their works. In fact,
there is little difference in the quality of
the National Gallery columns and the
columns Tiepolo painted —if anything,
the Gallery’s are better, and I couldn’t
bear to think of them being handed-over
to Whelan the Wrecker to be converted
into a car-park or something.
Personally, I doubt if the new director
has ever looked at the building he
despises. If he has, it must be that his
eyes are so blinded by modem fashions
that he simply hasn’t seen its beauty.—
M. G. Skipper (Vic.).
France
France is by no means distracted
(B. 11/1 / ’56). The political situation
gives outsiders an erroneous idea alto-
gether. At present France is carrying out
contracts in 23 different countries for
the construction of dams, steel-factories,
pipelines, hydroelectric and other instal-
lations. The total value of such work is
over £6OO million sterling.
Air France, with the longest network
of routes in the world, carried over
2,000,000 passengers in 1955, of whom
300,000 crossed the Atlantic. France
has a most efficient railway-system and
the fastest trains in the world: one
electric-train recently created a record of
over 200 m.p.h. All the automobile-
manufacturers are turning-out record
numbers of cars, and are selling them.
One-hundred-and-sixty new cars are
registered every day in Paris alone. TV-
manufacturers cannot make sets quickly
enough to meet demands..
The tourist-business is booming. The
Riviera was full during the season, and
the main avenues and boulevards of
Paris are thronged with luxurious cars.
The nightclubs, restaurants, theatres,
racecourses and stadiums are packed, and
in the summer the seaside-resorts from
the Belgian frontier to that of Italy are
overrun.
In spite of the political situation there
is always a Minister on tap to represent
France at all the abortive conferences in
Geneva and at the U.N. in New York.
Certainly the North African problem is
enough to drive any nation distracted, but
“These new flats are nice, but I do miss those chats We used to have
over the back-fence.”
Great Britain has similar problems in the
Malay States and in Cyprus. As far as
the cracks in the house are concerned,
Communism, in spite of the recent
elections, is on the wane. There has been
no revolution since 1789 and 1848, and
there will be none in the future. The
defeat happened in 1940, and, as General
De Gaulle said, “France lost a battle but
not a war.”
At different times in its history France
has been in most parlous situations and
has made a comeback always. The
present situation is by no means desper-
ate. In our time we shall see again a
powerful and prosperous France, and
the Kremlin will have no reason to exult
—on the contrary. —C. H. Voss, 59 Rue
des Tricots, Clamart, Seine, France.
The Little Things
How many farmers’ man-hours are
wasted through agents not paying atten-
tion to the “little things”? When I broke
"No, thanks. I roll my own.”
the air-cleaner bracket (cost, 3s. 9d.) on
my utility the local agent had to send
1000 miles to Brisbane for a spare.
Pump-buckets for a hand-operated knap-
sack-spray (catalogue value, 4d. each) are
unobtainable at all six of the distributors
who handle the popular make I use, and
a letter has been sent to Sydney for
spares. The return-spring from an
electric-stove plate-warmer is the daddy
of the lot. It’s catalogued at 9d., and I
have had to write to England for it.
Most farm-equipment has small,
though vital, parts, but agents, unless
they can be assured of a sale well into
the £-class, are reluctant to stock them.
The farmer visits town once or twice a
month. He buys a nationally-advertised
product in the belief that “spares are
always available at your local agent.”
Then he wastes hours trying to get the
spares, simply because, as one agent told
me, “there’s no cop in a fourpenny pump-
bucket.”
It’s the same with many things: grub-
screws with a B.S.F. thread, bolts for
multigrips, tension-springs for particular
motors —they’re all essentials and all
listed spares, but if they’re catalogued at
under 2s. “there’s no cop in it,” and the
purchaser can wait until the agent gets
around to ordering it.
It’s about time manufacturers got on
their agents’ backs and made them pro-
vide service after sales, whether for 2d.
or £2. — Pumpspray (Q.).
Oil-drilling
Cheapness apart, percussion-drilling
methods (B. 21/3/’56) have certain dis-
tinct advantages over rotary where gas
and oil contents of a reservoir “sand” are
at a low pressure and the “mud-fluid” or
chemical circulatory medium used tends
to “dam”-back the contents.
Otherwise rotary methods properly
applied with the right type of plant and
technique are, in the long run, better cap-
able of determining the potential of an
oil- or gas-field than the slower per-
cussion.
For years alternative methods to rotary
or percussion “solid”-bit drilling have
been sought. An entirely new drilling-
technique, depending on pellet-impact
on rock-formation through the medium
of a “jet-pumped” circulating-fluid, has
possibilities. This system, now being in-
vestigated in America, has the sponsor-
ship of Standard Oil of New Jersey and
the major oil-well contractors. Its main
aim is to get away from the limited in-
herent characteristics of rotary- and per-
cussion-drilling by an all-round “speed-
up” in penetration and reduction in
power and materials required.
That is accomplished by causing the
strata-structure to fail and disintegrate
under the impact of high-velocity, rela-
tively large metal pellets, which are then
“jet-pumped” back to the surface and
maintained in the circulation-cycle more-
or-less permanently, worn pellets being
replaced by new ones.
The method shows great promise, and
its adaptation to rotary “rigs” can be
looked for in the very near future.—
Kerogen (N.S.W.).
Malaria
Repat.’s decision to cease benefit-pay-
ments for malaria-attacks to over 7000
ex-servicemen who had been entitled to
them will cause some hard thoughts and
words. It is justifiable, however, for with
drugs now used, and which have been
available for years, malaria is easily
cured.
Gone are the days when attacks used to
recur for years after a person once in-
fected (with other than the so-called
malignant type) had returned to live in a
non-malarious area where reinfection
was not possible.
Malignant tertian malaria is caused by
a specific parasite (Plasmodium falci-
parum), and although it is the great
killer of all the different malarial infec-
tions, because it causes cerebral malaria
and blackwater fever, somewhat para-
doxically it is the most easily cured.
Even without treatment at all it runs a
course of less than two years.
This is due to there being only the one
infection of the liver, whereas the other
malarial parasites undergo repeated stages
of development in the liver, where drugs
have no effect.
All this had been suspected for years,
but it was not until the true course of a
single malaria-infection had been studied
at Horton Hospital, England, and volun-
teers had allowed pieces of liver to be
removed after being heavily infected by
different types of malaria-parasites, that
it was eventually proved.
Malaria is such an arch-simulator that
people suffering from it can be, and often
are, treated for some other complaint.
Similarly, people who have had malaria
are apt to call any later sickness a relapse,
and if the attending medico does not have
the blood examined he easily falls into a
trap.
There is one golden rule with patients:
if in doubt, treat for malaria, as no harm
will be .caused by modem drugs. They
are compatible with any other drugs, and
delay while awaiting the result of a
blood-test may prove fatal. A severe
infection requires early and sustained
adequate levels of the drug in the blood-
stream to ensure a successful outcome.
—D. W. (Papua).
The Senate
The framers of the Federal Constitu-
tion should have copied Belgium by
limiting the Senate franchise to persons
of 30 and over. Such a restriction would
have made the electorate substantially
different from that which elects the Reps.
The normal political allegiance of the
older age-groups differs considerably from
the younger. As people grow older they
become more sober in outlook and less
likely to be taken-in by glib demagogues.
They also have a greater stake in the
country.
The original meaning of Senate " aS
“House of Old Men.” As a modern
Upper House is primarily a House o
review, the more experienced sections
the community should have predominant
influence in it.
The change would not be “undemo-
cratic” —every citizen would become a
voter in due course. The present voting-
age of 21 is purely arbitrary. — KaniMBLA
(N.S.W.).


The Press
“Rann” is a little one-sided in his
criticism of Sydney’s evening-papers and
their crusades (B. 21/3/’56).
Because people are occasionally sub-
jected to injustices by Government depart-
ments, “crusades” are regarded as good
for circulation, but the average news-
paper does not lightly embark on them.
Every newspaper has its daily quota of
callers, each with a grievance of some
kind. Many are cranks and are promptly
given the cold-shoulder, but others who
appear to have a genuine grouch are
passed-on to a reporter, who gets the
facts and then checks them. To do that
it is obvious he must go to the depart-
ment concerned.
But, in the bureaucratic way they have,
few departments will tolerate having a
decision questioned by the press or any-
one else, and the reporter is usually told
where he can go and what he can do with
his questions.
Apart from the natural suspicion such
an attitude arouses, the paper usually gets
its back up and runs the story without
departmental comment or explanation.
In most cases a simple explanation of
policy, plus a few details as to the back-
ground of the particular case (either on
or off the record), would clear the matter
up and probably result in the newspaper
deciding to drop the story.
Generally speaking, it is the Govern-
ment departments themselves, and not the
newspapers, which have created dislike
and distrust in the public mind. —
Sparks (Q.).
Recognition for “Hams”
Some tangible reward for amateur
radio-operators is long overdue —the
account in B. 14/3/’56 is but one in-
stance of dozens of similar cases.
Unlike “hams” in America —the “home
of amateur radio,” where gear is cheap
and numbers sufficiently strong to spon-
sor club-stations and emergency-networks
—Australia’s enthusiasts are numerically
small. Although their organisation, the
Wireless Institute of Australia, is the
oldest amateur-radio organisation in the
world it does not receive any recognition
by the authorities.
During last year’s floods in N, S. Wales
amateur radio was the backbone of com-
munication for days. Many of the men
had no sleep for up to four days—and
some employers docked them their pay
for not turning-up to work!
To be efficient, emergency- traffic must
be well organised, with equipment tested
regularly. Most radio-amateurs have to
rely on equipment they have built them-
selves, which is probably more liable to
break-down than commercially-made
equipment. Their portables, which are
the heart of field emergency-traffic, are
satisfactory to a point, but, here again,
the radio-amateur, because of limited
finance, can rarely afford to shock- and
waterproof his transmitter and receiver.
The Bulletin’s suggestion of a small
hut for a base-station is not enough.
Surely the P.M.G. must at last recognise
these people, provide them with a high-
powered base-station in each capital city
and issue some of the experienced mem-
bers who live in strategic areas with com-
mercial portable-equipment. Then, to go
further, the department could co-operate
on regular tests to keep operating and
gear up to scratch.
In recent months the P.M.G. has
embarked on an extensive public-relations
programme. What better public-relations
move could there be than to allocate a
few thousand pounds to make the
amateur-radio emergency-network more
reliable?
Although amateur-radio administration
is a P.M.G. responsibility, at present the
department does little more than collect
the annual licence-fees.— Waddlin'
Willie (Vic.).
Mr. Menzies and Inflation
I don’t doubt Mr. Menzies’s sincerity,
but his stated belief that “tax-measures,
properly considered, should be the most
powerful instruments open to a Govern-
ment to deal with inflation” probably
explains why, despite his promises, the
value of the pound has decreased to less
than half the purchasing-power it had
when he made those promises. The
result has been that all those who put
their faith in Mr. Fadden and their
money into Government bonds have lost
over half of whatever purchasing-power
they originally invested.
Isn’t the inflation due to the common
habit of business-people putting up their
prices regularly, and the consequent
“By special permission of the copyright-owners, We will now play
for you ‘Faddy McGinty’s Goat.’ ”
action of the basic-wage adjudicators in
raising wages proportionately?
We all know that with increasingly
high living-standards in the more back-
Y ard countrie f 1 the cc f of certain pr °'
ducts, especially tea, has risen accord-
ffigly, but such items are merely a drop
j n the ocean compared with the constant
s i ow increases of a halfpenny or a penny
imp osed by our local shopkeepers, a
shilling or a sixpence by our small busi-
nessmln, and £lOO or £5O by our big
businessmen.
Unless and until the Prime Minister
takes a definite stand on the matter of
price-control of key-commodities we shall
suffer continuing rises in the basic wage,
with consequent devaluation of the sav-
ings of all those thrifty, trusting people
who, so unwisely at present, are keeping
their savings in the form of Government
securities, bank-balances or life-insurance
policies.
Perhaps Mr. Menzies will explain to
us exactly how he thinks his little taxes
on beer, spirits, smokes, cars, petrol and
company-profits can possibly curb in-
flation? The only result will be that
prices all round will be raised to offset
the increased company-tax, thus increas-
ing the inflationary trend.
It will only take a couple of months
or so to see how his well-meant plan—
produced after so much costly considera-
tion by the country’s best economists —
is going to work.—G. C. (N.S.W.).
If the new taxes on cars, beer and
smokes reduce consumption (as the Gov-
ernment hopes), where is the additional
revenue to come from? If there is no
reduction in consumption, the Govern-
ment will get its additional revenue, but
at the cost of higher prices and increased
public spending. You can’t have it both
ways.
I listened to the Prime Minister’s
speech and noted at the outset that he
spoke of the need for increased exports.
He closed on the same note, but between
the two references there was nothing to
indicate how exports were to be increased.
If the P.M. had wanted to damp-down
spending-power by private individuals
he could have done it most effectively by
increasing personal income-tax. That
would also have given him the extra
revenue he requires to balance the Budget
by the end of June. Such an increase
would have been unpopular, but why
? ou 0 ld T th u e Government worry about
that? It has almost three years to run,
and even a hostile Senate wouldn’t have
been able to do anything about it.—
M. F. D. (N.S.W.).
.
„ .
Horror Comics
Australian censorship officers who are
tackling the problem of the “horror
comic” are finding it very difficult to
eradicate this imported pest.
According to Commonwealth Book
Censor I. C. Hammett, three extra
men had to be put on the Melbourne
censoring staff recently to cope with the
increasing flow of imported comics,
mostly from the U.S.A. The publishers
are up to all manner of tricks—comics
banned here under one title have turned-
up again, a month or so later, under an-
other; publishers’ names and addresses
are switched in an effort to fool the
censor; and unsavory sensational matter
is given misleading “moral” titles, such
as “Crime Does Not Pay.”
Most of the really bad comics are no
longer imported under licence —single
copies are posted to private individuals
here and reprinted—but a considerable
proportion is seized in the mail and sub-
sequently consigned to the flames.
What the Australian authorities need
is far stronger backing from the local
publishing-industry and from distribution
agents. Surely printers’ and newsagents’
associations could take a firm stand
against the reprinting or handling of this
poisonous stuff! With their co-operation,
the horror comic would speedily disappear
from our bookstalls. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Free Speech
There’s no sense,' “L.F.,” in being
naive about “free speech” (B. 14/3/’56).
It is generally known that public ser-
vants who publicly criticise their Govern-
ment or department usually find them-
selves in serious difficulties. In fact,
they are instructed not to make state-
ments or provide information for publi-
cation. They certainly cannot be said to
have the right of free speech or criticism.
A police-officer who “speaks out of
turn” may suddenly find himself trans-
ferred to the backblocks without hope of
promotion, or a departmental official
whose utterances are indiscreet may find
he is no longer essential to the smooth
operation of his department. Fear of
retribution makes Government employees
keep their views to themselves, no matter
how justified and interesting such views
may be.
Every experienced journalist knows
that public servants have a horror of
being associated with critical newspaper-
reports and will invariably refuse to give
information on even the most harmless
matters.
Reporters often obtain news-items, in-
formation and criticism from the more
hardy public servants on the strict
understanding that names and sources of
information will not be disclosed. Were
it not for these contacts, press-reports on
Government matters would be very dull
and uninformative and would be con-
fined mainly to the verbose and mean-
ingless handouts which Government
roundsmen collect by the score on their
daily rounds.
Fear of consequences is not confined
to public servants. Even private citizens
will hesitate to express critical views for
publication if they feel they can be “got-
at” in some way by a vengeful Govern-
ment or local-government department.
As a reporter on a N. S. Wales rural
newspaper I once reported a man’s criti-
cal views on the State’s railways uttered
at a public meeting. Next day, escorted
by two railway-inspectors, he called on
the editor and claimed he did not intend
his remarks to be interpreted in a critical
light. When it was pointed-out that his
remarks had been reported and not inter-
preted, he said that, after a talk with the
inspectors, he felt the railways weren’t so
bad, after all, and could we please publish
a further statement in modification of his
earlier remarks?
It is undoubtedly a sorry state of
affairs, but “L.F.” should know that
“free speech” is a luxury which few can
afford in these days of bureaucracy.—
Sparks (Q.).
Why pick on Government depart-
ments? I don’t recall many employees of
private firms making public criticisms of
their employers. Or if I can, they’re not
employees any more. —F.F. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 377
Across
I—A fellow set recumbently for
the tea prairie padre. (8)
4 —Punches the hose. (5)
7 Booby what runs up a tree? (3)
8 — Profile of a bed melody to do a
postponer of baldness. (4,5)
10— Run off to marry the Spanish,
and open the rest. (5)
11 — Away to the south-east shipping
route. (6)
12— Hamlet probably spent his early
days in such canonised trisectors
of a circle. (3)
13 and 16 —Charles II or Neptune?
(4,4, 3,5)
20 —Australia breaks the common
law. (12)
23 — Night-fliers are slow to change.
(4)
24 Insect beat it! (3)
26 —Solider tree by the sea in France.
(6)
29 — A good round parent limb inter-
rupts a parent city of Italy. (5)
30 — Do press the first medicine for
the blood. (4, 5)
31 — A lot of talk suggests there is
no room for me in the Games.
(3)
32 — Lear’s daughter smashed the
stove mountains. (5)
33 —Pronoun’s ounces duck one
hundred of the Triassic, Jurassic
and Cretaceous periods. (8)
Down
1 — The fellow is Idriess after busi-
ness, but I chose no disorderly
sticking. (8)
2 Livens when an ego marries. (8)
3 Where you might find many a
Hebridean vowel on another. (4)
4 Hastened. (4)
5 That is after the nonchalant
laborer from the Orient expres-
sion of a dove fib. (6)
6 Vivien’s sister Sonya provides
transport for Santa Claus. (6)
7 McTax. (4)
9 —No pronoun cart upset by such
drawing. (8)
14 — Ray is two forms of a verb. (4)
15 — A long-term bachelor who has
just married according to the
Chifley proclamation. (8)
17 — She is a nut cracker. (4)
18 — Bird has none on fire. (8)
19 — One girl cicada dispensing with
another girl of the chest. (8)
21 — Bobby has a boiler for Id. (6)
22 — Boldrewood is certainly up in
the money. (6)
25 —Girl who allows some soil
erosion. (4)
27 Herb Wise. (4)
28— Be after a striking success in a
Japanese city. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 376


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
ERG
BATTERIES
gss».
'lll'li-'. l ' • •*
Vil'/l. ~r' " ‘•' fl
! • t ' r , 1
M - *. !' - : . &:M5 v- '•
S?n!
ill
•igill
fc ~ ‘ .V r in
i 4r^
i-. :-.v
■
■■■■:■:;
'•
i? ■:•!•;
.
«■ i
n X:S
• *:
■•' : i : ..
\ ...
Will
I'iLfflK'
•X ’:■;:. ‘ ■•.• 1 ■
', i: -! = - . 1
i.. ! m
i: :V-
-it:-*'*::'
I- 1 • WHa BSPii
1 i® |
V’ttsiv-'
pps
Si
rfi
Vi;!;-:
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON#
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
