

/
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
WHAT’S WHAT IN “WHO’S WHO”-mge 24
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3973
Wednesday, April 4, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 292: the Homeland Senes by the House of Seppelt.
BUCKLAND ABBEY, WELL-LOVED HOME OF SIR FRANCIS DRAKE
ONE of the great historic houses of England is Buckland Abbey, a 13th-
century foundation which later became the favourite home of Sir Walter
Raleigh. It is situated on the eastern bank of the River Tavy, six miles
south of Tavistock in Devon.
The original Abbey was built by the wife of the Earl of Devon in 1278,
but after the Dissolution, Henry VIII granted the property to Sir Richard
Grenville in 1541. He converted the Abbey into a private residence and later
his famous grandson of the same name made further alterations and added
the fine plaster ceiling to the hall in 1576.
Five years later the estate was bought by Sir Walter Raleigh soon after
his return from sailing round the world. From early childhood this Devon-
shire village held its attraction for Raleigh, who was born in a cottage near
the banks of the River Tavy about the year 1539. Buckland became his
favourite residence in those intervals of his career when he was in England.
The mansion is entered through a pre-Tudor arch, which is surmounted by
the Drake coat-of-arms. The great hall, panelled in Jacobean oak, is situated
beneath the central tower of the old Abbey church. In 1938 the whole of
the west wing was damaged by fire but most of the building remains today
as Drake knew it, including the ancient avenue of yew-trees and the adjacent
Tithe Barn, which is one of the largest in Britain. The barn and the Abbey
are now National Trust properties and are open to the public at certain
Drake’s famous expedition in the reign of Queen Elizabeth I began in
the year 1577, when he set sail with a complement of 160 men m five vessels,
the largest being 100 tons and the smallest, 15 tons. By the time he had
passed through the Straits of Magellan, Drake’s fleet had been reduced to
his own ship the Golden Hind, in which he and his crew of 57 men com-
pleted the voyage around the world in two years ten months and twenty days.
Drake’s exploit presented England with the freedom of the oceans, and it
marked the beginning of her naval power which defeated the Spanish Aimaaa
in 1588.


POSITIONS
PLENTIFUL
For Girls
Office Work offers excellent Opportuni-
ties for those who have had a Sound
Training in
© SHORTHAND
• TYPEWRITING
© BOOKKEEPING
It will pay you well to master these
subjects in your own Home, under the
guidance of Stott’s experienced in-
structors.
Good Positions are plentiful, but the
highest Positions go to those who have
had a thorough and complete Training.
■BBii
Su’lS'fs : t.fp?n“. M st " AdelaMe; 255
To stotS-s* FSS «na°M, fn”d’
My Name
Address
(S - 8 ' 75 «) Age’’’!’’
BOOKHUNTEK, Box 0671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text boc*.
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only u suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
A BISHOP OF NEWCASTLE
It is probably impossible to write
A History' of the Diocese of Newcastle,
N.S.W., Australia that is, of any
diocese, with progressive surveys of
population, finance, mention of all
places and all officers, etc, —that will
give pleasure to that exclusive person
“the general reader”; but what can be
done by profound scholarship, clear
and simple exposition, and obvious love
of the district and the subject has been
done here by the Reverend A. P. Elkin,
Professor of Anthropology, University
of Sydney, and Commissary to the
Bishop of Newcastle.
What makes this diocesan history re-
markable is its leading character.
Bishop Tyrrell, and the force with
which Professor Elkin realises him as
architect and builder of the Church of
England in the Hunter Valley.
Appointed from his parish of Beaulieu,
Hampshire, to. be first Bishop of New-
castle in 1874, William Tyrrell first
formed an English committee which,
with the aid of the Society for the
Propagation of the Gospel, was to
underwrite the travelling-expenses of his
retinue and, for at least seven years,
their maintenance. Then he sailed with
three clergymen and seven candidates
for orders, a schoolmaster, a school-
mistress, his housekeeper, gardener
and groom; and arrived in Sydney in
January, 1848, being installed on Jan-
uary 31 in Christ Church, Newcastle,
which was to be the “pro-cathedral”
until five years after his death.
In his fine survey of conditions in
the Hunter Valley before the bishop’s
arrival, Professor Elkin takes a dim
view of “the moral and social back-
ground.” In 1864, for instance, con-
vict and ex-convict men equalled free
men, about 5000 a side; although with
women and children, the free outnum-
bered the convicts and ex-convicts by
about 20,500 to 6,500. For many years,
brutality to convicts had tended to
brutalise the free also; lack of schools
and any other spiritual discipline than
jail or the lash fostered robbery,
drunkenness and “every vileness”; and
Justice Burton opined “It would appear
.... as if the main business of us all
were the commission of crime and the
punishment of it.”
As against this, transportation was
over, the Land Act which offered
greater security of tenure to squatters in
1847 encouraged the settlement of wives
and families on the land, and as may be
seen from Bishop Broughton’s diary
of his visit to the valley in 1843, hold-
ing services in stores, designing
churches, and consecrating churches
already built at every stopping-place,
the foundations of the diocese were
already laid, and maintained by chap-
lains subsidised by the S.P.G. •
Establishing himself at Morpeth,
which, with the two Maitlands, was a
district outnumbering Newcastle by
8600 to 1500, Bishop Tyrrell began his
struggle to procure and replace clergy-
men, and to take new ones through the
intricacies of the Greek Testament;
organising committees, advancing
money for church-building, establishing
and maintaining schools. His first busi-
ness was to plan, like a general, the
attack upon his diocese which stretched
up past Moreton Bay, with a series of
lines running parallel to the coast,
setting his objective progressively
further inland, and to patrol on horse-
back, with visitations of up to 1500
miles in a single tour, this huge domain,
which in the 1860’s was cut down by
the creation of the sees of Brisbane
and Armidale-Grafton.
Having got order into the establish-
ment of his parishes, his next step was
to pool the finances of all for the use
of those which needed it, and to estab-
lish a Church Society for the adminis-
tration of church affairs. From this he
progressed to the establishment of a
Synod, a church organisation that had
not been known in England since 1717,
and was attacked in Australia as illegal.
It was evidently some row. “Synod”
was made by its enemies to sound like
Church-law, the Inquisition and the
rack—and some idea of the difficulties
involved may be had from the case in
which the Bishop, having made a
charge against a clergyman, was pro-
ceeded-against by a party to the alleged
offence for defamation of character,
and ordered to pay nominal damages
“on the technical point that in the
colony the office of Bishop did not con-
fer privilege in connection with the
judicial aspect of that office.” The
1874 Synod read a brief address to
Bishop Tyrrell on this subject:—
They stood while it was being read,
thus showing by their very demeanor
the solidarity which they experienced
through him.
The dry, clear mind constantly work-
ing on the next problem, that emerges
from these pages no doubt endeared
him to the big-businessmen, as his all-
weather horsemanship did to the leaders
of the pastoral and farming commu-
nities —he liked to be met outside a
township so that he could discuss
church matters on horseback on the
way in and save time for the services
and book-work in the town itself. At
the age of 62, when most of Armidale
cowered around fires, Bishop Tyrrell
rode out on horseback to welcome the
bishop-designate of the new see,
Bishop Turner, in heavy snow. Land-
ing at Newcastle in 1851 from a mis-
sionary vessel, and finding the river-boat
gone, he walked the 20 miles to Mor-
peth—even at 44, it must have been
hard-going in gaiters.
But perhaps the most characteristic
story of Bishop Tyrrell is of how he
endowed his diocese; his greatest monu-
ment is not of churches, but of finance.
His continual anxiety was that the
bishopric should support itself. To
this end, he invested his own and dio-
cesan funds in pastoral properties, be-
queathing to the diocese “four valuable
stations on the Gwydir,” and “twelve
very valuable stations—six in N. S.
Wales, and six adjoining in Queensland,
on the Culgoa, and named together as
Brenda station”—a pastoral bishop,
and a pastoral bishopric indeed. By
1951, 73 years after the inception of
this endowment-scheme, persistence
through good years and bad years as a
station-owner had enabled the Synod
to accumulate a capital sum of
£250,000.
But the early days of worry over
these properties, complicated by
droughts, are thought to have contri-
buted to the breakdown of Bishop
Tyrrell’s successor, Bishop Pearson.
Bishop Pearson is remarkable in hav-
ing been the first bishop to be elected
by a Synod in Australia and not
appointed from abroad; and for hav-
ing been unable, after his breakdown,
to resign, for which reason the diocese
had no bishop from 1887 to 1891, but
was under the administration of Canon
Selwyn. It was not until Bishop
Stanton’s time, in 1892, that the founda-
tion-stone of Newcastle cathedral was
laid by the Earl of Jersey.
By this time, the story becomes of
such administrational complexity, with
boys’ homes, girls’ homes, grammar-
schools, funds, accounts, social pro-
blems, etc., that only Professor Elkin
can keep it all in order. One might
mention that his luminous 706-pages of
text are supported by 97-pages of con-
cise documentation and nine pages of
bibliography . . .
The book is illustrated with pictures
of a great number of the churches in the
diocese. Mayfields is just a memory
of the reviewer’s mother in a rage saying
“Think of it! They whitewashed that
lovely little old church!” Some are
most impressive, like St. Paul’s, West
Maitland, or charming, like St. Mary’s
on Allyn; or reminiscent, like St.
John’s Church, Stroud, of when great
agricultural companies had their own
chaplains; but from all the churches
shown here one returns and returns to
the first Holy Trinity Church, Merriwa,
a rare work of adaptive Australian
genius in which the wooden slabs, set
vertically, produce the aspiring thrust
of Gothic stone —it must have been one
of the real triumphs of Australian
architecture.
Three Books of Verse
Poetry, like volcanoes, cannot safely
be sat-upon; therefore the small books
of verse by unknown writers continue
to burst forth in out-of-the-way places;
and at least it can be said for most of
them—as for Betty Casey’s A Quart-
pot oil My Saddle (Dymock’s), “Dud”
Mills’s The Stockwhip and the Spur
(North-Western Newspapers Pty., Ltd ,
. Mudgee, N.S.W.) and Amy Cumpstoii’s
Human, My Race (Pacific Press, Bex-
ley, N.S.W.) —that some kind of genuine
combustion has sent them forth.
Though one of her verses was first
printed in “The Bulletin,” Mrs. Casey
should perhaps be writing for children.
She has the sentimentality and unblush-
ing doggerel characteristic of children’s
verse; and, withal, as in “Snowy Plains
Hut,” the no-less-characteristic virtue
of clear, direct observation of the Aus-
tralian scene—from Marree to the
Monaro: —
There’s a hut up in the mountains
Where the gay Gungarlin flows
Where the snowgums twist their
branches
And the paper-daisy grows.
Less ambitious than Mrs, Casey,
therefore less liable to be diverted into
poeticisms beyond his capacity, “Dud”
Mills, who is introduced by the mayor
of Mudgee, is interesting as a survival
of the old bush tradition: a singer,
humorist and balladist who, had he
lived 100 years earlier, might well have
composed one of the old bush-songs
collected by Paterson and treasured
by devotees of folk-lore today. And
indeed such pieces as “When the
Brumbies Come to Water” and “Send
Her Down, Hughie” may yet come to
be valued in that way—for their
simplicity, their earthiness, their
thoroughly Australian feeling:—
The wethers were shedded, and
packed tight and hard,
Quite a lot underneath, but some left
in the yard:
“We are needing a spell, and we
have bed and board,
So send her down, Hughie,” the
rouseabouts roared.
Miss Cumpston is in a very different
category from the previous writers, and
something may yet be heard of her in
“serious” Australian poetry. She
writes, chiefly, compact and thought-
ful sonnets on love, under Shakspearian
influence, or perhaps that of Donne:—
O how the soul needs one and only
one;
not to furnish the dwelling with a
keeper,
nor to adorn the marriage with a
son,
nor to cure unrest of the lonely
sleeper.
The one to one’s self, one’s own, the
heart would have.
As far as she goes, Miss Cumpston
writes these sonnets very well: allow-
ing for occasions when her imagery—
as when a “cask” is brought in to make
a rhyme for “ask” —seems to be dic-
by the exigencies of technique
rather than inherent necessity. The
verse is crisp, the thought individual,
the feeling deep. Where she stops short
is in escaping from the Elizabethan
model and a mechanical scansion—in
developing a natural contemporary
style and language.
The Barrier Reef Books
May I be permitted to turn the other
cheek to the reviewer of my book
Australia’s Great Barrier Reef? The
implication is obvious that I followed
too closely the pattern set by Mr.
Roughley in his book on the same area.
When it was suggested I should do
a book on the Reef it was intended that
it should contain the answers to the
questions tourists would ask. Obvi-
ously a small volume would deal with
highlights only. Mr. Roughley in his
larger volume, equally obviously, will
also cover all these highlights. I spread
into other fields of interest to the
tourist, such as the history, both
geological and man-made, what a
tourist should take and so on. Simi-
larities are due to what a biologist
might term convergence.
Now, your reviewer obviously is
uncertain just how such a book has
to be written. I think Mr. Roughley
would tell him it was impossible for
one man to know everything about the
Reef. Therefore he depends on the
work of scientists, some of them dead
for a hundred years. Both Mr.
Roughley and myself have access to the
same standard references. For example,
take the first few “coincidences.”
“The Reef is one of the wonders of the
world.” Well; isn’t it? And is there a
book or an article on the Reef which
doesn’t mention it? Then the descrip-
tion about barnacles kicking food into
their mouths with their feet. That
remark by a famous scientist during the
last century is so apt it has been quoted
a thousand times. I still don’t think it
has reached the boring stage of a cliche.
Not for the general public at least,
though if may to the zoologist.
However, where information is con-
cerned, both Mr. Roughley and myself
would go to acknowledged authorities.
It would be silly for me to go any-
where else for information about shells
than to the book of Australian expert
Joyce Allan, or the work on seashore
life by the late Professor Dakin and his
co-workers Misses Elizabeth Pope and
Isobel Bennett. I am taken to task for
using the term “Crabs and their allies.”
That is not the term used by Mr.
Roughley, but is used in the book
“Australian Seashores.” I trust Miss
Bennett and Miss Pope won’t take me
to task, but it is a term in common
usage.
Similarly, when discussing shells, it
is obvious that one keeps to the text-
book manner in dealing with the list.
You can say I copied. Mr. Roughley or
Joyce Allan, or a biology textbook. It’s
all the same.
So it goes on. Mr. Roughley says
the pandanus fruit looks like a pine-
apple. I doubt if he was the first to
note the resemblance, since practically
every writer on the Reef describes the
pandanus in the same way.
The dugong story is a case in point.
The implication is that I have robbed
Mr. Roughley of a nice story about
mermaids. Actually, of course, for
source-material on mammals I go to
the Australian authority, Mr. Ellis
Troughton. There the story can be
read in full. Perhaps I might digress
here to show the technique which must
be adopted by any popular writer on
many aspects of natural-history.
Over the years I have built up hun-
dreds of files on animals and plants I
have seen or thought might be useful.
In these files I put references, cuttings,
etc. When I started to write the dugong
section I first took out “Furred Animals
of Australia” and read the voluminous
section on the animal. Then I looked
through my files and came across an
interesting account of the breeding of
this animal. Then I looked at my field-
notes and was able to correct the belief
that the range had shrunk on the west
{Continued on page 35)


T -
m
N
SP E
• »
<2-
L\/2
&mm*,
■<'STM
S 9
rA
s
£
5
: IP>
m
<
&
oA/f2
D
a
a
o;
x
*o
An
r»A
A
B
a
r\
7
\
tyr^,
,x
x
V
w
CA
\
I
vA
Lf
m
X.
Everybody
shops at Anthony Horderns’
A day well spent is a day spent in our spacious store. Everybody enjoys a leisurely shopping excursion in
Anthony Horderns’! Packed with a larger range of merchandise (from all over the world) than you would
find in a day’s march around the City. Come in this week; start with breakfast at 8.30 in our Second Floor
Restaurant; then, in complete comfort, do ALL your shopping in one building. If you want to write a letter,
and post it, too ... if you want to ring home (there are 20 public phones, including 2 trunk line boxes)
. . . if you want to put some money in the bank for a rainy day ... if you want a chicken dinner or a glass
of champagne with the appropriate snack . . . if you want a rest . . . if you want, well, almost anything.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ mammoth I6J-acre Emporium is a complete self-contained shopping and business
area in itself. "A City within af City,” a store with a friendly, efficient atmosphere, where you will meet
with courtesy wherever you turn. It is our policy to offer more service, variety and value than any other
store in the whole of Australia.
We remake Down Quilts
Anthony Horderns’ will remake your old down quilt to look like new. We are quilt specialists and all quilts
are remade by quilt experts in our own factory. Only the best quality materials are used for the coverings.
Please write for a quotation now before the cold weather arrives.
A'' TRUTH IN ADVERTISING .
nthony Horderns’


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3973
Wednesday, April 4, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {.opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
RUSSIA: THE REASON WHY
THE United Kingdom Government shares none of
the press optimism about Russian manoeuvres. In
its defence White Paper last month it made it clear
that the cold-war was still vigorously in being in
the Middle East and elsewhere: particularly, it is
obvious, among native peoples and in those trade-
unions in British countries which have the power to
do most in crippling British commerce and defence.
There can be little doubt, on the evidence, that
there is no basic change in the Soviet attitude, and
that Khrushchev and Bulganin are aiming to appeal
not to the friendship of Governments, which they
hope to undermine, but to the unthinking populace,
which they have been seeking for a generation to
suborn from loyalty to their own system, rulers
and way of life. As the Earl of Home, Common-
wealth Relations Minister of State, put it last week,
the clear aim of international Communism at this
moment is “to undermine, to subvert, to bribe and
to cause chaos” and confusion of thought, and
shake the faith of peaceful peoples in the warnings
of their Governments and in the need for defence-
measures. The spectacle of what Malcolm
Muggeridge, the editor of “Punch,” truthfully
describes as a pair of “seasoned professional
terrorists” like Bulganin and Khrushchev, not to
mention the even-more-seasoned servant of Stalin,
Malenkov, playing the kindly uncle to the British
people, patting children on the head and buying
chocolates for honeymoon couples, is like watching
the local hangman appraising his victims.
Their attack on Stalin is the boldest move in
this dampaign to win friends and influence English-
speaking people. It has not taken much power of
discernment to discover that the world has long
since had the measure of the late, unlamented dic-
tator, and that if they can manage to shed him as
their inspiration and align themselves with world
opinion regarding him, they have won half the battle
in beguilement of their world-wide victims.
The job of disposing of the Great Red God,
however, is somewhat difficult, for the whole system
of the U.S.S.R. has been built around Stalin.
The thinking of Russia has been done by Stalin
and his closest intimates. The orders have been
given by him and by his group. The wholesale
purges have been conducted by the hero whose
party was always returned at elections by a 99.7 per
cent, majority throughout the Socialist Sixth of the
World.
Khrushchev for years was Stalin’s representative
in the Ukraine, the most vital portion of European
Russia, since without it Russia would have starved.
Molotov was his emissary who negotiated his
friendly arrangements with Ribbentrop and Hitler
and Matsuoka and who found the pretext for the
attack on Finland and arbitrated the sharing-up
with Berlin of Poland and the Baltic States.
Bulganin, who is still the titular head of the
U.S.S.R. and chief “Defence” Minister, was picked
out of the ruck after the war by Stalin, advanced
from a civilian job to be a field-marshal in
the Red Army. Malenkov was his secretary and
principal administrative officer and internal ambas-
sador. Mikoyan, Kaganovich, Voroshilov, Kiri-
chenko, Saburov—all were Stalin men, his unswerv-
ing supporters and lieutenants in his every infamy.
It has taken them all a very long time to dis-
cover his more loathsome qualities, and some of
them must blush as they look back over their
speeches and actions. To purge Russia of Stalinist
influence they would need to purge Russia of them-
selves, for their methods follow Stalinist technique
which made every congress of the Communist Party
of Russia the signal for a fresh purge, and their
inconsistencies and cunning are no less than those
of the master from whom they learned their
technique.
All they are now seeking to do is to gain
battlegrounds in foreign countries on which they
may attack the Governments of those countries and
steal from them, if possible, the leadership of their
peoples. The Communist parties abroad have be-
come only a second line of troops. In future, as
they have begun to do in Asia, the leaders of the
Kremlin hope to do their own dirty work on the
spot in the countries which they aim to absorb.
Why this new line has been adopted it is easy
to appreciate. The theory in Moscow at the end
of the war was that with all Germany up to the
Elbe in Russian hands, with East German food
areas completely under the Russian heel, Germany
as a whole would soon be behind the Iron Curtain.
Britain, supposedly, was not only so enfeebled by
its exertions as to be likely to collapse but had
acquired a milksop Socialist Government, some of
whose Ministers leant heavily towards Russia.
Italy was believed to be on its way to Communism.
A friendly United States, guided by Rooseveltian
policy, was expected to be kept occupied with
Japan and the Pacific and also likely to withdraw
from the European sphere in pursuance of a tradi-
tional policy of isolation. But the Gouzenko
revelations and the reaction to the collapse of
Chiang Kai-shek China and other developments
soon changed the picture.
It did not, however, at once, change the stupid
Kremlin belief that the Western world had become
so debilitated by six years of war that, as soon as
Russia had been tidied-up, the invincible Red Army
could dictate terms at the right time in Western
Europe—the right time being the moment when
China should be able to take charge of South-East
Asia.
Russian calculations have, as often before, gone
considerably astray. The trend in Germany was
completely miscalculated. Italy failed to collapse.
Tito broke with the Soviets. America stayed in
the world arena and failed to become tired of
building-up resistance.
The past year has included the moment when
it has been finally realised in Moscow that, so far
from gaining over the Western Powers, Russia has
been fighting a losing battle in materiel. Korea,
as a pilot-plant war, must have been highly informa-
tive to Russian observers as to what effort the
United Nations could put out even in a small dust-
up at the end of a long and highly difficult com-
munications-line and under the worst of climatic
conditions.
A country’s world-war potentialities in modem
terms can be judged fairly accurately on its ouput
of capital metals and power and skill to engineer
them into manufactured shape.
Russia last year, on its own figures, estimated
its steel-production at 45,232,000 tons, which is
about a third of that of the United States. On the
basis of the known official figures, the United States
steel-output has increased more in three years than
the whole of the Russian output, and its steel-
consumption per capita—to say nothing of other
metals which Russia seems scarcely to have touched
—is four times that of Russia.
When other such statistics, including electric
power, are compared they tend to add-up to the
solution of the enigma of the Russian smiles as
summarised by Earl Home: that it is only since we
began to show the Russian nation that the Western
world “is willing to match strength with strength
and show them that we will arm ourselves with the
latest deterrent, even the hydrogen-bomb, that they
have even come to talk on terms of coexistence with
the West and the free nations.”
They may not be frightened of the West; but
they have decided that war from within conducted
by Trojan-horse tactics is likely to be more profit-
able than a direct clash of forces. And they are
just as dangerous and treacherous as professed
friends as they were as open enemies.
Coal and Hansom-cabs
AFTER J. D. Kenny, of the A.C.T.U., had
jumped on the coal-wagon and joined in the
miners’ pilgrimage to Canberra, he reported to the
pilgrims:—
We told the Minister that there was a great
deterioration in the position on the N.S.W. coal-
fields. We told them we want a full and complete
investigation into the utilisation of coalmines to
preserve this great national asset.
Earlier, the miners’ president, Comrade W. Parkin-
son, had said that the deputation would ask
the Government for a special tax on sales of refined
oil, the proceeds to be devoted to the development
of chemical plants for the extraction of by-products
from coal;—
The days of just burning coal in fires have
long since passed. The development of chemical
plants would reduce the necessity of importing
many of these by-products. It would also place
the coal-industry on a better competitive basis
with oil.
Coming from a man who has been a lifetime in the
industry, that sounded rather impressive, but a day
or so later Professor Hunter, who, as occupant of
the chair of chemical-engineering at Sydney Univer-
sity, may be presumed to know something of the
subject, described Parkinson’s remarks as “a
counsel of ignorance.” The professor, in a letter
to Sydney “Herald,” said that the idea that an
important industry could be developed by extracting
chemicals from coal “disappeared with the hansom-
cab and gas-lighting”;—
Coal chemicals, apart from acetylene made
from carbide, are effectively chemicals produced
from coal-tar.... The majority can be pre-
pared from either coal-tar or petroleum, - and in
a highly competitive market petroleum as a
source-material for this purpose has enormous
'economic advantages.
The professor concluded that far from it being
correct that the days of just burning coal in fires
have long since passed, the opposite was the case,
and “coal has no major significant use other than
for burning.”
Comrade Parkinson’s other recipe for curing
the ills of the coal-industry is to abolish the Joint
Coal Board and nationalise the mines. “That can
only be done by the State Government.”
What a bleak prospect for the N.S.W. coal-
industry! The miners’ spokesman can offer only
two ways out of the/industry’s present difficulties.
One of these is condemned by an expert as being
50 years out of date, and the other involves handing
the mines over to Cahill and Co.!
The idea of the Cahill Government, with its
dreary record of transport deficits and half-finished
public works, taking a shaky coal-industry in hand
and putting it on its feet again is so ludicrous that
it is hard to conceive anyone seriously suggesting
it. If Parkinson was serious at all, it was not that
he was concerned with putting the industry back on
its feet; he is more interested in putting it on the
backs of the taxpayers. (In nine years nationalised
coal has cost the British taxpayers £37 million.)
But is the future of coal as bleak as Parkinson,
Kenny and others who organised the futile march
on Canberra claim to believe? The picture painted
is one of immediate crisis and imminent disaster.
There is no denying that the N.S.W. coalfields have
lost many of their old markets. But that is not
something that has happened overnight; it has
been developing for years.
Three years ago, in its 1953 report, the Joint
Coal Board discussed this development and warned
that the price of N.S.W. coal was too high and had
“risen almost twice as far and twice as fast as other
commodities produced in Australia.” The board
said it was inevitable that the market for gas-coal
and railway-coal must decline, and it could name
only two industries which could be depended on
for a solid and expanding market. These were
electricity-generation in N. S. Wales and the steel-
industry. The rate at which other industries would
restrict their usage would depend primarily on
price.
The extent to which the industry can hold
its markets will depend upon the degree to which
it can reduce its prices and costs. Fundamentally,
this resolves itself into a question of technical
efficiency. Large sections of the industry are still
far from efficient, and the application of modem
mining methods, combined with mechanisation,
give them an opportunity which they can only
ignore at their peril.
The Miners’ Federation seems to be only now
realising the truth of what the Coal Board told it
years ago. But its answer to the threat from oil
does not involve lower prices or greater efficiency;
its solution is to subsidise coal by taxing oil.
The march on Canberra was a typical Com-
munist stunt to dramatise and exaggerate the posi-
tion ; it had implications of widespread distress and
unemployment. This is far from being the case.
What has happened on the northern coalfields
is that some uneconomic pits have closed down —
as recommended by the Coal Board—and increased
mechanisation has meant a reduction in the number
of men required in others. At the end of 1955 there
were 965 fewer employees in the industry than at
the end of 1954. This does not mean that there are
965 miners unemployed. That assumption makes
no allowance for men who left the industry through
death, retirement or change of occupation. Most
of the men retrenched have been taken on at other
mines.
Retrenchment is not a pleasant process, and
no man can be expected to greet with loud cheers
the news that he must find another job. But what
is happening in the coal-industry happens in greater
or less degree in most industries from time to time,
and those involved adjust themselves to changed
conditions without putting back the clock or turn-
ing to nationalisation.
The miners’ leaders must adjust their thinking.
The reported statement of the president of the
northern branch of the Miners’ Federation that he
had no objection to the mechanisation of Bellbird
colliery provided all men were maintained in
employment at the mine was not very helpful to
the miners’ cause. He might just as well have advo-
cated the use of smaller picks on the grounds that
it would enable a greater number of men to find
employment.
The N.S.W. coal-industry is not doomed; it
is merely going through a period of readjustment,
and Senator Spooner was quite right when he said;
Given goodwill and co-operation, the changes
that are taking place can be managed without
hardship to anybody and in the ultimate will
bring benefit to everyone associated with the
industry.
But the fundamental thing for the miners to realise
is that hansom-cabs are “out” and that the mechani-
cal age, which began with the utilisation of coal,
will leave coal behind unless the industry keeps
pace with it.


POSTCARD FROM A PAL'
“It’s from Georgi Malenkov. He says, ‘Am having wonderful time. Spending the day in Madame Tussaud’s Chamber of Horrors. Wish yon were here.'"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Unrest in Canberra
The Commonwealth Government will
return to a difficult Parliamentary posi-
tion at Canberra after the Easter break.
Problems converge from every quarter.
And some ageing Ministerial timber may
creak under the strain.
There is a suggestion that Sir Arthur
Fadden’s recent abdication of his role
in Parliament as Treasurer may be inter-
preted as the first step towards his replace-
ment in office and his transfer to London
to fill the High Commissionership. If
this plan has* any reality behind it, which
is unlikely, it could have chain-reactions.
The suggestion is that Mr. McEwen
would take the Treasurership and be
groomed for the Prime Ministership on
Mr. Menzies’s retirement —whenever that
might be. It has been rumored that Mr.
Menzies might step-down after his next
overseas trip; but there has been such
speculation for years. Other rumors are
that McEwen is being groomed for the
leadership of the House of
tives, and that Sir Eric Harrison will go
to London to fill Sir Thomas White’s
place in May. This has a greater ring of
probability. Also, that Mr. Menzies
might go, as S. M. Bruce went, with
Ministerial status.
Whatever McEwen’s future, it is openly
tipped that he will leave the Country
party and join the Liberal party; but,
Whether he does or not, the present situ-
ation seems to centre round himself and
Fadden. If the latter were to retire from
the leadership of the C.P., ability and
Ministerial position would make McEwen
the natural leader of the Country party.
As a candidate, however, he wouldn’t be
popular with one section of the party,
and his election wouldn’t be a foregone
conclusion. If, on the other hand, he
aspired to the Prime Ministership or
leadership of the House, either in the
immediate or the remote future, he would
face the position that the Liberals would
be unlikely to accept the induction of a
C.P. man into the office —if he remained a
C.P. man.
It is possible that some of the new
anxiety of the N.S.W. Liberals to achieve
fusion with the C.P. isn’t altogether dic-
tated by local considerations, and that
it may be desired, in order to avoid the
chances of a deadlock if the Prime
Ministership or House-leadership should
become vacant. The Canberra back-
benches meanwhile are as actively critical
as they have been in Parliament for 30
years.
One of the things which the present
Government has achieved is the restora-
tion of the old committee-system, even
though it is hamstrung to some extent by
the refusal of “Labor” to participate
fully. The Foreign Affairs Committee is
a useful body, and with Kent Hughes
in the chair and W. C. Wentworth in
its membership, it is likely to prove an
influence on policy within the next
melting-pot year.
The Public Accounts Committee, under
Professor Bland, is doing salutary work.
But the activities of these bodies don’t
make for ease of mind in Ministers at a
time when they are pursued by a hostile
and self-interested daily press, the Sydney
section of which knows no scruple. More
universally there is unease about the Gov-
ernment’s mild attitude to growing indus-
trial unrest aimed directly against the
wool-industry (and therefore the basic
economy), and at the defence of the
country, which is being attacked through
transport and the Communist-run build-
ing and engineering unions.
The public-relations support of the
Government’s measures hasn’t always
been skilled, and the important problems
which will haye to be faced in the
next three months will be dealt with in
an atmosphere of growing criticism which
there doesn’t seem to be any major
attempt to counter.
The anti-inflation measures already
taken were not a good foundation for
building public support, sound and
necessary as they obviously were. And
with both sides of the House clamoring
for increased salaries there will probably
soon be another pretext for hue-and-cry.
It is to be hoped that the timing, if salaries
are increased —as they need to be —will
not place the bill ahead of the measures to
deal with arbitration weaknesses and in-
dustrial unrest, the looming Senate-dead-
lock, and the Constitutional reforms
urgently needed to enable the Govern-
ment to control the economy of the
country without being hamstrung by the
manoeuvres of “Labor”-controlled States.
A Parliament which is elected in
December without its members having
raised the question of salary-increases at
the polls, and hastens in April to raise
them a matter of £5OO a year or more
before it deals with more vital matters, is
looking for trouble.
There are some people in Canberra
who very seriously believe that the coun-
try will face another election before the
year is out, and “Labor,” and some
elements of the back benches, appear to
be doing everything to bring it about.
The whole atmosphere makes it urgent
that the Government should stabilise it-
self, put the Parliamentary house in order
and establish a clear-cut legislative pro-
gramme and popularise it, even if it in-
volves blunt but imaginative speaking. In
the trying year or two ahead the country
can’t afford an unstable Government,
much less a “Labor” Government with a
policy indirectly from the Communist-
party Central Committee, which might
be the result of disagreement or uncer-
tainty about the leadership on the Liberal-
Country-party side.
Election in W.A.
Westralia is to have an election on
Saturday, and the Hawke “Labor” Gov-
ernment, which a month ago had its tail
down as a result of voting-trends at by-
elections and at the Federal poll, has
experienced a revival of hope since the
announcement of the Federal tax-
increases.
Illogical, of course, since no matter
which party rules Westralia at the time
of the next Loan Council meeting, that
State, like all the others, will be dependent
for portion of its public-works finance on
the proceeds of the new taxes.
“Labor” propaganda in the West is now
working flat-out to punch home the fact
that the Federal Liberals and the State
Liberals are one and the same party —a
point which Opposition-leader McLarty
cannot deny if he would, since his own
publicity people were themselves stressing
it before the Menzies economic speech.
“Labor” governed Westralia from 1933
until 1947, when it went to the people
with 15 of its members unopposed in a
House of 50, so that it had only to
retain 11 of the contested seats to con-
tinue in office. It won only eight, and
the McLarty Government (a Liberal-
Country-party coalition) came into power
with the help of three Independents.
Three years later the coalition-parties
obtained a clear majority with 26 seats,
but in 1953 the position was reversed, and
it was “Labor” which had the odd man
over after appointing a Speaker. This
advantage was lost at the Bunbury by-
election late last year, and the Govern-
ment and Opposition parties will go to
the polls on Saturday holding 25 seats
each.
As in 1947, the last time a “Labor”
Government faced an election, there is
a long list of unopposed candidates, but
this time most of them are Liberal or
Country-party members. Of the 16 elec-
torates in which there’ll be no voting,
only five are held by “Labor.”
Westralia voted strongly for the Liberal
and Country parties at the Federal
election last December, and at Bunbury
and in Legislative Council polls the trend
was undoubtedly against the Hawke Gov-
ernment. It seems unlikely that resent-
ment against dearer beer, cigarettes and
petrol could reverse the trend in the space
of a fortnight, but if it does Premier
Hawke will have the knowledge that he
has been returned to power on a purely
selfish vote, without any bearing on his
own record or policy.
Australia and the Submarine
Earl Mountbatten’s warning (coincid-
ing with the arrival of Australia’s new
aircraft-carrier, H.M.A.S. Melbourne, in
Sydney Harbor) that the Navy is still a
powerful force in defence was well
timed.
The Navy has become, with most
people, and even with negotiators of dis-
armament, the forgotten service, which is
as the Kremlin would like it to be at this
juncture.
A few years ago it would have been
reckoned the first consideration and the
most difficult one to arbitrate, but with
the decline of British colonial power and
the rise of the cult of atomic-bomb
warfare and of airpower, thought has
changed—and too rapidly.
As Earl Mountbatten pointed out, the
submarine is probably likely to be the
greatest single factor in a new world-
war, since the bulk of heavy supplies and
heavy forces must still be carried to and
from distant points by sea.
Supplies and huge troop-bodies can
only be carried in ships. Indeed, the
demand for them will be greater than in
the last war, since equipment is heavier,
more copious and more diffuse, and it
takes far more men than a decade ago
to carry out the operations necessary for
any given objective. Where in World
War II it was reckoned that 70,000 to
80,000 tons was needed to carry and
service a division, in World War 111 about
twice that will probably be needed.
More than that, it will take ten times
the effort to keep the same tonnage at
sea. For radar, guided missiles, heavy
fire-power and speed and ranging qualities
of aircraft will make it the more difficult
to live on the surface.
The Russians have never lost sight of
the position, and neither have the naval
authorities of Britain and the United
States. But the overall defence authori-
ties have been apt to judge the naval
potentialities of sea-warfare by what
happened to the Japanese in the Pacific
(and to the Americans at Pearl Harbor),
which was nobody’s business.
Naval development appears to be at a
crossroads. The key to the future seems
to lie in the submarine, the aircraft-
carrier as a platform from which
guided missiles and aircraft can be fired,
and particularly in atomic propulsion.
Every Navy is experimenting with
atomic propulsion as a first-line project.
Both the U.K. and the U.S.A. have
prototype vessels afloat —indeed, the
atomic submarine of the U.S. Navy is
well beyond the mere experimental stage.
When atomic power is perfected as a
propellant for underwater vessels, as for
surface ones, then the question of range
will cease to be a problem. It will be
limited only by the power of endurance
of the personnel and by its ability to
feed and munition itself.
Russia is said to have 400 submarines,
nearly half based on Vladivostok; and
some of them certainly have been explor-
ing South Pacific waters with an eye to
future eventualities.
Australia is peculiarly vulnerable to
submarine operations, and though the
R.A.N. is fully seized of the position, it
is not quite clear how far the Govern-
ment as a whole shares its views. Cer-
tainly not enough is being done in devis-
ing a defence against a mode of war
capable of completely isolating us in sea-
communication.
Judas at Play
The reactions of Communist parties
throughout the world to the new Moscow
line on Stalin present a delightful picture
of Communist insincerity and illustrate to
the full that in the Red world it is the
objective which matters, and truth is only
good when it is useful to the cause.
Those leaders abroad who appeared
thunderstruck for the moment quickly
recovered and accepted implicitly Mos-
cow’s orders as to what they were to
think and say. The Moscow line, waver-
ing a little in the wind for a few days,
became rigid at all points when instruc-
tions arrived from the Kremlin as to the
attitude they were to take.
It was a marvellous display of how
discipline is imposed. Apart from the
fact that the results of the Petrov com-
mission made it evident that Moscow
finance plays a part in Communist-party
operations abroad, every party, through
its seditious dealings with the U.S.S.R.,
gets itself and its leading members on
to what was called before the Petrov
commissioners “the little hook.” It finds
itself in the position in which it must
face the alternatives of obedience to the
Kremlin or exposure to its own country.
The Australian Communist Party, being
farthest out on the limb, was, as usual,
the last to get its instructions.
No journal has ever been so fulsome
in its praise of Stalin or so savage in its
condemnation of his enemies as the
official organ of the central committee,
the “Tribune.” But last week, after a
silence of a fortnight, it announced that
“mass-meetings throughout the Soviet
Union were enthusiastically endorsing the
decisions of the Moscow Conference” ;
that the Russian people were also “cor-
recting past errors and shortcomings
based on the law of criticism and self-
criticism.” It gave a very modest account
of Khrushchev’s tirade against his former
idol, omitting most of the real meat:
Khrushchev underlined particularly
Stalin’s achievements in the Civil War,
in the fight against the policy of Trotsky
and in the fight for industrialisation, and
in the collectivisation of agriculture. The
success of these policies was of vital impor-
tance to the Soviet Union and for the victory
of Socialism. Stalin’s mistakes, particularly
in the period after the 17th congress of the
CSPU in 1934, were also dealt with in the
greatest detail to show the evils of the cult
of the individual and the vital necessity for
the observance of the Leninist principle of
collective leadership. By resolution, the
20th congress declared that the central
committee was absolutely right in combat-
ing the cult of the individual.
The Australian party obviously doesn’t
know where it is. Even i£ colossal
effrontery is unable to cope with the situ-
ation. It is patently afraid to print what
Khrushchev actually said. It has no
leading-article comment on the stupend-
ous denunciation. Its editorial wrath falls
on Mr. Casey for being particularly sour
about the operations of Bulganin and
Khrushchev in Asia. But it hasn’t a word
of editorial comment on the fact that
Khrushchev has been sulphuric-acidly
sour about the lifelong idol of most of
the Australian leaders, he to whom they
cabled when his hands were dripping
with blood after the purges of 1936-38,
which Khruschchev has denounced as
wholesale and wanton murder:
Your example, the example of the party
of Lenin and Stalin, the organiser of the
great October Revolution, inspires us with
undying confidence in the teachings of
Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin, as the only
reliable guide in the great struggle against
the bestial fascist warmongers and destroyers
of liberty and culture. Long live our great
teacher, Comrade Stalin, beloved leader
of the world proletariat!
The miserable fellows haven’t now a
word to say in his defence. Judas Iscariot
was an amateur beside them. The most
striking fact about their interpretation
of the position and what it means is that
it is an almost exact replica of the state-
ment of the position by the Hungarian
and Czech papers which they evidently
copy.
No Abdication
“In the ACT”: Now that Pakistan has
followed India in becoming a republic
within the British Commonwealth, the
time is ripe for discussion in all Common-
wealth Parliaments of the position in the
world of the Commonwealth today, and
of its role tomorrow.
In a recent address, Sir Anthony Eden
declared that Britain “will not abdicate”
from her special position in the world,
conferred on her by history and
geography; and that could be a starting-
point for the review of the place of each
individual member of the Commonwealth
and of what they can and should do.
Obviously the adherence to the Common-
wealth of India and Pakistan, and per-
haps of South Africa, is dictated by more
than merely an instinct of self-preserva-
tion. There is an almost-indefinable
sense of unity of purpose, and a strong
belief that Britain itself has shown the
world how self-government can be
established and fostered when people are
not only willing but also able to exercise
it.
In recent years British foreign policy
has taken some puzzling twists. Some of
Britain’s friends, not always so adept at
avoiding a mess, or in getting out of one,
have failed to discern the overall and
overriding purpose of preserving world
balance while maintaining the influence
and prestige of Britain. Mistakes have
been made, undoubtedly, and more may
be made, but there is still world-wide
recognition of the fact that the British
Commonwealth, in the last resort, speaks
with a powerful and united voice on most
of the major issues starkly confronting
mankind.
The Australian Parliament might give
a useful lead if, well before the Prime
Ministers’ conference in London in June,
it discussed the Commonwealth’s future,
and made it clear that in Australia, as in
Britain, there will be no abdication, no
relinquishing of responsibilities already
undertaken or likely to arise in the near
future. This is especially important in
view of the economic difficulties facing
both Britain and Australia at present.
The immediate interests of all members
of the Commonwealth are far from
identical, and are sometimes at variance.
But in the long pull they have the same
objectives, and will be able to reach them
by a unity of effort which in itself must
be an impressive demonstration to the
world of peaceful co-operation. The
Commonwealth Parliamentary Associa-
tion has demonstrated something of the
sort in its conferences. There is no reason
why the Commonwealth Parliaments
themselves should not address themselves
to the problem, to give a lead to their
Governments, and renewed hope to their
peoples.
The Hotel and the Tourist
Prominent Australians interested in con-
tact with the outside world confirm the
comment of overseas visitors about the
lack of tourist-facilities in Australia.
It is a matter which calls for national
attention. It is true that some new
hotel-companies are trying, against odds,
to do something to improve the very
limited accommodation of the few
hostelries in the big cities which deign
o Continued, on next page)


to take in travellers almost as a favor.
It is also true that the American Conrad
Hilton organisation is reported to be
about to introduce new standards by
putting up one of the great global chain
of their hotels which dot the landscape
from Madrid to Montreal.
But these efforts are only a drop in the
bucket. With increasing speed of travel
and increasing numbers of Americans
and Europeans anxious to come here,
what is needed is a general improvement
in hotels all over the country, a general
insistence on the carrying-out of the
licensing-laws regarding accommodation
and dining facilities.
In New South Wales there is one law
for the hotels and another for the com-
munity. The great bulk of pubs are
merely swill-shops. To write to some of
them for accommodation is to be
ignored; to ask in most for the meals
which the law supposedly compels them
to provide is to court insult and, if atten-
tion is called to the Licensing Act, jeer-
ing invitation to test the power of the
publican to evade the regulations.
Country hotels are worse, if anything,
than city ones. Many which took great
pride before the war in their fame as
hostelries are now run-down drinking-
shops, centres of noise and disorder by
night, bulging with swilling customers
late in the afternoon.
Some of the largest suburban ones in
Sydney, ornate and new and enlarged
since 10-o’clock closing came in, are
close to transport-centres, and their
customers are very largely drivers of
public vehicles in whose hands the lives
of travellers are placed. They would
laugh at the idea of putting up a
traveller —if a traveller would put up
with their evening babel.
It is probably no use trying to make
an issue of the tourist-question in a
country in which the expenditure on
liquor is more than the expenditure on
defence or staple food in the year.
But it might do some good if the
Commonwealth took a Rand and called
a conference of State Ministers to discuss
the question and put the position
squarely and publicly.
It mightn’t shame the guilty parties, but
if the facts were stated strongly enough
it might frighten them into making
liquor loosen its grip on the trade.
Failing action by those now in control,
overseas organisations might be
encouraged to enter into the business.
But the first thing is to see the law
enforced —to compel State Governments
and the police to act to cancel the
licences of those who refuse to live up
to their legal obligations in a manner
suitable to the real needs of the com-
munity, and of travellers.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Muddle East.
If there’s anything in the strong rumors
of salary-grabs pending in Canberra and
Macquarie-street, our politicians are very
bad judges of timing. The Federal Gov-
ernment has just filed a claim for £ll5
million extra taxes in the name of arrest-
ing inflation, and the Cahills are expect-
ing a £ 10-million transport deficit.
When M.P.s talk of salary-increases
they’re not thinking in terms of a few
more bob a week. It’s a tenner or nothing.
• •
Lord Howe Island should be interested
in the Sydney magistrate’s decision that
a boarding-house is not a trade. Guest-
houses on the island are subject to a
licence-fee not levied anywhere else in
N.S.W.
• •
Following-up his charge that all poli-
tical parties accept party-fund contribu-
tions from the breweries, Clive Evatt
urged, in an address to the Constitutional
Association in Sydney, “a campaign for
the revelation by some authority, statu-
tory or otherwise, of the sources of party
funds.” An excellent idea! Clive could
start by persuading Bert to tell the full
story of that £13,000 Kim Beazley was so
inquisitive about.
• •
- One good result of Victoria's liquor-
referendum is a proposed bill to make
sweeping changes in the licensing system.
The .suggestion is that hotels will be
graded into two classes —those which pro-
vide residential accommodation and meals
for wayfarers and those which pretend to
but don’t. The beer-swill parlors will be
soaked by a higher licence-fee —as they
should be—and the others will get a
reduction as an encouragement. The
change could mean that many exist-
ing hotels will vanish and be replaced by
American-style bar-roonfs which won’t
have to serve meals or provide accom-
modation.
• •
As a sequel to the Stalin revelations
Laszlo Rajk, a former Hungarian
Foreign Minister who was executed in
1949, has been found to have been falsely
convicted. He has now been “rehabili-
tated,” which presumably means that he
can leave the grave without a stain on
his character.
• •
Higher education will benefit to the
tune of £450,000 under two wills lodged
for probate in Melbourne. A quarter
of the residue of Sir Russell Grimwade’s
estate will go to the University of Mel-
bourne on the death of his widow. It is
expected that this bequest will be worth
£250,000. Sir John Storey has made two
gifts of £lOO,OOO each ; one will be de-
voted to technical education in Mel-
bourne, the other goes to the Australian
Institute of Management to set up a
memorial fund in memory of Sir John’s
father, who was Premier of N. S. Wales
1920-21.
• •
Watersiders’ attendance-money jumps
from 16s. to 245. a day under an award
made by Mr. Justice Ashburner.
Wharfies had claimed 355. 4d. (four hours’
pay); employers agreed an increase was
warranted, but didn’t suggest any figure.
In announcing his decision the
judge said that if the shearers’
strike and a ban on wool resulted
in a serious diminution of work on
the waterfront, it might be that the com-
munity could not bear the cost of the
increased attendance-money. He reserved
the Stevedoring Industry Board and the
employers the right to apply for a reduc-
tion “in the event of the board’s estimate
of man-hours to be worked in 1956 being
proved by events to be substantially
inaccurate.”
• •
When Opposition-leader Morton fore-
cast a savage N. S. Wales Budget and
expressed the fear that the Ma State
was about to “enter upon a chronic state
of high taxation and depressed living-
standards,” Cahill said the prediction was
“amusing.” But the same day it was
announced that Cabinet had approved an
increase in fees for registration of shops
and factories, also in weights-and-
measures fees. Estimated annual levy
£123,000 —not an enormous sum, but not
very amusing, either. The transport slug
is still to come.
• •
Country-party leader Nicklin and
Liberal leader Morris will each deliver a
policy-speech to open the Opposition
campaign for the Queensland election.
But there’ll be no conflict; they have
“divided the election-issues” between
them.
• •
A. J. Fraser becomes the new Victorian
Cabineteer in succession to the late R. K.
Whately, though he probably won’t get
the portfolios, but will be ranked as
Assistant Minister. He’s had a varied
career both inside and outside politics—
M.C. in World War I; director and
executive of various transport companies ;
chairman of the Vic. Transport Regula-
tion Board ; chairman of the Liquid Fuel
Control Board ; secretary of the Victorian
Country party ; Victorian Senator.
• •
Two statements- which speak for them-
selves : Khrushchev on February 25,
1956: —
Before the German attack on Russia in
1941 everyone had known that war was
GENEVIEVE
coming except Stalin who refused to
believe it He ignored the warnings
of Sir Winston Churchill and Sir Stafford
Cripps, the British Ambassador in Moscow.
The same Khrushchev speaking in Bom-
bay as quoted on December 22, 1955, by
the “New Times,” Moscow:
But... .the Anglo-French-Americans....
instigated the Second World War. They
hurled the big armed forces of Hitler Ger-
many against the U.S.S.R. in 1941.
• •
There’s a legend that a bright boy of
Whitehall once suggested a slogan to help
Britain’s drive for trade. Plans for the
use of his phrase, “Britain is trying,”
were well advanced before someone
pointed out its ambiguity. However,
there’s no doubt that in shipbuilding
Britain is really trying to maintain
supremacy. In 1955 the output from
U.K. shipyards was nearly 1| million
tons —65,000 tons more than in the
previous year, and the highest since 1929.
The percentage of world output was 27.7
per cent., compared with 26.8 per cent,
in 1954. Altogether 276 merchant-ships
were launched, tankers representing 44
per cent.
• •
Heads of some of the free-spending
departments in Canberra are feeling a
little uneasy at the confident predictions
from Melbourne that the Victorian appeal
to the Privy Council against uniform-
tax will be successful. An era when the
Commonwealth may really have to cut
the size and salaries of the public service
would seem like doomsday to some of
the Canberra clique.
• •
With the object of keeping “Labor’s”
top men pinned-down in their own elec-
torates, Queensland Opposition parties
will oppose all but one or two Ministers
in the coming campaign. Deputy-
Premier Duggan will have against him
E. M. Hall, a machinery-works proprietor
from Toowoomba; Justice Minister
Power, 34-year-old R. S. Thomasson,
one-time assistant-secretary of the Auto-
mobile Chamber of Commerce. Health
Minister Moore’s challenger is S. R.
Ramsden, War II R:A.A.F. chaplain, now
assistant-secretary of the Services Canteen
Trust Fund. Mines Minister McCathie
will be opposed by ex-R.A.N. man, E. J.
Pearce, now a marine-engineer with the
Navigation Service in Townsville ; Lands
Minister Foley by T. J- Donnelly, Long-
reach publican and shire-council chair-
man ; and Works Minister Hilton by
Stanthorpe farmer F. A. Rogers, another
shire-council chairman. Atherton
farmer C. H. West will have a go at
Agriculture Minister Collins. Selection
of opponents for Treasurer Walsh, Labor
Minister Jones and Education Minister
Devries are still to be announced.
• •
Motor-registration figures for February,
1956, were almost identical with those for
the same month last year —16,617 com-
pared with 16,614. Cars showed a drop
of 601 ; trucks and utilities an increase of
604. For N. S. Wales there was an over-
all decline of 244 vehicles —6231 against
6474.
• •
The Russian steamroller, athletic
variety, is going to be an outsized one.
As only 15 officials may be accommodated
at the Olympic Village for every 100
athletes and the Russkis intend to send
a larger proportion, a floating hotel is
projected, to be sailed with the whole
team aboard direct from Russia. Some
months ago, when the use of liners as
floating hotels was suggested as a solu-
tion to Melbourne’s accommodation
problem over the Olympic period, the idea
was rejected because of the problem of
disposing of kitchen-refuse and sewage.
But perhaps the Russians are different!
• •
“Melbn”: The 10-o’clockers didn’t de-
serve to win. At the polling-booth in my
village I saw a man handing out six-
o’clock cards and asked him why there was
no 10-o’clock man on the job. “Oh, there
was,” he said, “but after a couple of
hours he’d had it. He’s gone to the local.”
The contempt in his voice would have
curdled the milk in a large dairy.
• •
Russia’s latest disarmament plan
embodies little new or useful. It appears
to be merely a patchwork of such parts
of the Eden plan, Eisenhower plan and
Molotov plan as the Kremlin thinks might
be effective in keeping Germany divided
and in splitting the Western Allies. It has
included any U.K. points which it thinks
the U.S. might not accept, any U.S. points
likely to be criticised in U.K. and has
infused as many selling-points as possible
to appeal to France. In any case, even if
all Powers agree, the complicated scheme
would have to be operated by a new
United Nations organisation. And both
the League of Nations and U.N.O. have
proved how that kind of body works.
• •
After the Seato conference in
Karachi, External Affairs Minister Casey
went to one of the historic crossroads of
the world, the north-west frontier of
Pakistan. Discussing it on his return, he
pointed out that there was probably no
other area in the world where so many
countries met or almost met. They were
Soviet Russia, Communist China,
Afghanistan, Kashmir, India and
Pakistan —a thought-provoking collection
in today’s world.
• •
Warning that we must take account of
the “staggering technological advances”
being made by Soviet Russia, R. G.
Casey, as Minister in charge of
C.5.1.R.0., supported the claim by Dr.
Coombs that scientific research is the key
to Australia’s industrial future. Casey
warned that Australian industry was too
slow in becoming “research-minded,” and
in establishing research-laboratories, and
promised C.5.1.R.0. help in research-
projects on the lines of several now in
progress.
• •
J. A. J. Hunter returns to the attack:
Mr. Leahy should have left me brooding in my
“mare’s-nest” (B. 28/3/’56). No one objects
to Morris and Nicklin speaking on “matters
of joint policy common to both elements in the
joint team,” etc. It is their duty to do so.
But I strenuously object—and the sheaf of
letters I have received on the matter show that
the “rank and file’’ object—to departures from
the above.
No one knows what is in the agreement
between the parties, so inferences .have to be
drawn from the actions and words of the
principals as reported in the press. At the
conference last 'year it was stated that “the
agreement followed the procedure of the Federal
sphere.” Mr. Leahy repeats this, but it is not
true. No one ever heard of the “Nat.-Country
Party” or the “U.A.-Country Party” in days
gone by. The “Liberal-Country Party” is the
name assumed by the Libs, in some other States.
Neither Mr. Menzies nor Sir Arthur Fadden
has ever referred to Government followers as the
“Liberal-Country Party.” Neither did I, when a
Minister, refer to the “U.A.-Country Party.”
We all spoke then, and speak now, of the
“parties comprising the Government.”
Only a few days ago the Brisbane “Telegraph”
published an article by Mr. Nicklin, the C.P.
leader, in which he wound up with: “Vote for
the Liberal-Country Party,” etc. Surely the use
of the “singular” and the “hyphen” must mean
something. What?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
THE large tree-frog that suddenly
• hopped across the lounge-room
carpet one night, the mice, meat-ants and
funnelweb-spiders that have swarmed
into the garden from the waterlogged
country lower down, the tiny black ants
that have made a nest in the shelter of
the lock on one of the kitchen-windows,
the toadstools and paspalum flourishing
in the doormat, the fungus growing on
the pictures—all these phenomena of
Sydney’s great Wet are perhaps too
commonplace to mention. But may I
point out, to the creature that leaves its
silver trail across the lowboy and into
my wardrobe each night, that I object
to snails in my hat? —“S,”
' +J4
“8.H.”: On the radio a lad was asked
the object most worthy of salvage if he
found his home on fire. “Would Mum
and Dad be out?” he asked.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“M’Boro”: In 1947 Brisbane sculp-
tress Maria Kuhn fashioned a clay, life-
size statue of Sir Charles Kingsford
Smith. Then began civic appeals for
money for the statue’s casting, punctu-
ated by squabbles about who should do
the casting. The statue, intended for
Brisbane’s Eagle Farm Airport, has lain
in the artist’s studio; and now Lud
Mayor Groom, as head of the Smithy
memorial committee, says that the £5OO
gathered from the drawn-out appeals is
“ You didn't put your hand out!"
still not enough for the casting. So an
.obelisk will be Smithy’s remembrance
• and Mrs. Kuhn says she intends to sue.
* ❖ ❖
“Old Mac”: All right, “Narumee” (B.
12/3/’56), when a Scot wears a kilt he
says he wears the kilt, and when he wears
tartan trousers he says he wears the
trews; but whether he wears kilt or trews
(feileadh-beag or triubhas ) it may still be
the guid-wife that wears the breeks.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: They have changed the
hoardings in Sydney’s Wynyard station
again ; and though I am glad to see that
even in this dismal summer the beaches
are still crowded with enormous naked
ladies eating headache-powders, I cannot
let this occasion pass without saying how
much I miss that glorious little brunette
who, romping in a golden bathing-
costume, used to take Bile Beans for
Inner Cleanliness. The incarnation of
youth, health and inner-cleanliness, she
always did me so much good that I never
needed to take either aspirin or, alas, bile-
beans.
♦♦♦
“Bookie’s Dog”: In Victoria the
favorites have been rolling home so con-
sistently that the big white bags have be-
come homs-of-plenty to the punters. At
a Saturday-night party after a particu-
larly torrid day I met the newish wife of
a prominent bookie. Asked her how she
reacted to her husband’s losing trot. “It’s
terrible,” she said, eyes wide with hurt
surprise. “Before I married Bill I
thought the bookmakers always won.”
❖
“Geep”: Dandruff is expected to suc-
cumb to N-trichlormethylmercapto-4-
cyclohexene- 1,2-dicarboximide.
♦j* *
“Jemac”: Reported that the Gyppo
Navy has been increased by the addition
of two submarines —crews training in
Poland. When last seen the G.N. com-
prised four feluccas and a gilt-encrusted
gunboat, and one wonders why submer-
sibles haven’t been added before—the
traditional purpose of a submarine is to
let fly, then run deep out of it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sogood”: Searching several weeks’
accumulation of dailies, I could find not
one single reference to the bridegroom
in wedding-reports, apart from his name.
He was frequently deleted from the pic-
tures, too, save for an arm or a shoulder.
Now I’ve come across an English provin-
cial editor who reported his own wedding,
omitting any description of his bride’s
attire, but detailing his own minutely:
The groom wore a bluish business suit,
recently cleaned and pressed. The coat
fitted snugly across the back, with lapels on
either side at the front. Beneath the coat
and waistcoat was a freshly-laundered white
shirt across which lay a grey and blue tie.
The groom also wore shoes, polished. The
laces were tied in small bows.
*Z* ♦>
“Narumee”: The flap was on in the
Government office in Melbourne. Inter-
State and inter-departmental lines ran
hot; big chiefs paced office-floors and
thundered at subordinates; morning-tea
cooled, forgotten. It had occurred to
someone that the Olympic Games were
being held this year, and that essential
supplies were not in hand. Reverbera-
tions penetrated to the lowliest strata,
and a file was extracted from the bottom
of a heap. The file was borne into the
next-senior’s office, changed hands, and
thus progressed to the sanctum of the
biggest chief . . . Hushed explanations;
clearing of all brows; suave reassurances
by telephone: the matter had been dealt
with 11 months ago.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Arthur R.”: Two novels based on the
“Mahogany Ship” mystery (B. 14/3/’56)
have been written by Australian authors
“Show must be over; they're playing the National Anthem."
—Vernon Williams, a Canberra public
servant, and Donald McLean, a War I
padre. Writing about 30 years ago each
called his book The Mahogany Ship.
Williams’s novel came out first, bearing
that title, but the name of McLean’s book
was hurriedly changed to The Luck of the
Gold Moidore. It was on sale a fort-
night after the one by Williams. Al-
though based on the same legend the
novels were wholly dissimilar.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Malua”: Australian wine did get a
mention, “Narumee” (B. 7/3/’56), in that
January issue of the English magazine.
After enumerating various South African
wines selling at about 7s. or Bs. a bottle,
the article was kind enough to add, “a
price which also applies to good Aus-
tralian wines shipped by Seppelt.”
<£»
“Dorian”: Saw at Sydney Show a coin-
counting machine which gobbled a stack
of brand-new shillings, counting and
registering in the process. Among the
spectators were two small boys. Man
regulating the silver stream said breezily,
“How much money do you think is in
this pile?” “Dunno,” one of the kids
volunteered. “If you can tell me,” urged
the attendant, “you can have the lot.” I
guessed, inaudibly, £lOO ; and though I’ve
had six months of fruitless lottery-tickets
£lOO it was. Well, I shall name my next
ticket “£100.”
• 6 * • 5
“Auriol”: Wandering down a human-
ity-infested street at the Sydney Show
my lady-friend and I were accosted by
a huge, gravel-voiced spruiker attached
to one of those “Prizes-for-all” sideshows.
“Bring her over here, mate,” he bel-
lowed ; “she’s worth spending money
on.” Two-bob each; prizeless. Three
hours later, when we passed that way
again, he recognised us and began his
blatant entreaties, but, being broke, we
got out of it fighter.
♦> *z+ &
“Emtee”: Hobart’s rickety jail, of
early-19th-century vintage, has long been
a polypus on the heart of the city. Lately
it has also achieved notoriety as a rival
to Melbourne’s Pentridge for the ease
with which its inmates come and go,
there having been two breaks this year
already. The Parliamentary Public Works
Committee submitted to the pre-Easter
session of the Tasmanian House a recom-
mendation that work be started on a
proposed new jail at East Risdon, on the
opposite and up-river side of the Derwent.
The cost of the modern institute is esti-
mated at a cool half-million. With public
finance the way it is, of present inhabi-
tants only those with long-term sen-
tences are likely to enjoy the advantages
of the new home.
❖ ❖ <*
“Macnell”: Perhaps naval training’s
biased me; or the fact that once a jolly
Jack Tar aimed an empty (of course!)
signal-pistol at my head. Inspection dis-
closed that the weapon was (of course!)
loaded. But maybe that sort of thing’s
O.K. in the Army—or so one gathers
from a photo in Brisbane “Courier-
Mail.” There, sitting on a stump, smiling at
group of University trainees, is a sergeant,
Pointed at his face and chest—range
something under 2ft. —are at least seven
rifles, held in inexperienced hands. Cap-
tion —“A Hold-up?” Sarge braves all his
trainees like that he’ll end-up holed-up.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doric”: Inadvertently diving into a
swimming-pool with my wristlet-watch on
I was not unduly worried, as it was sup-
posed to be waterproof. Within half-
an-hour it had stopped. Took it back
to the seller, who pointed out to me that
it was merely “moisture-proof” and
hinted that I was just one of those mugs
who buy things without reading all the
specifications. That dip cost me £2 10s.
*!♦
“Trish”: Having advertised for a
chimney-sweep, I was disconcerted when
a New Australian turned-up with no more
equipment than an old millet-broom and
a long piece of string. With the addition
of a house-brick, which he borrowed
from me, up on to the roof he went.
Attaching the brick to the string, he
lowered it down the chimney, with a
good deal of swinging to and fro; then
he splayed the broom-head, and with
the aid of the same string he put it
through the same process. Time, 45
minutes ; charge, 10s.; result, as big a pile
of soot as the professional ever got.
$
“Rimutuka”: There’s method in the
apparent madness of women who like
furnishing-material for frocks. Firstly,
the designs and colors are so attractive;
secondly, the quality is made to wash and
wear and resist fading (a big item here in
sub-tropical Brisbane); then the width
(usually 48in.) means less is required ; and
they are also crease-resistant. On the
other hand, the pretty voiles and gay
cottons from the dress-department are
better for curtains than for frocks, as
usually they crush at a touch, which is
nullified when they become starched
window-drapes.
♦5
“Tock Emma”: My last recollection of
receiving a payment of any consequence
in gold was when a bookmaker at Flem-
ington paid me £5O for the double on the
Grand National Hurdle and Steeple (Will
Comfort and Sir Prim), July, 1919. As
A.I.F. in Egypt and thereabouts we were
always paid in gold. The crown-and-
anchor boards and two-up schools at
Mena camp were a sight to remember—
in many, a sovereign was the minimum
bet. There was something romantic
about a sovereign; a feeling that it was
real money—“hard cash.”
BOARDING-HOUSES INSULTED
“A Sydney magistrate ruled that conducting a
boarding-house was not a trade, and therefore
was permissible in a residential area under the
N. S. Wales Local Government Act, which
prohibits carrying-on a trade in a residential
area.”
A boarding-house a place of trade!
Ah, how could that mistake be made ?
What awful cheek!
It is, of course, a home-from-home
Where life's unhappy pilgrims come,
Proffering a nominal sum —
Some five or seven guineas a week —
Not so much a residence
As a place where penitents
Prepare for death
With discipline of hour-on-hour
Waits in queues for bath or shower;
Where teas half-sugared, sweets left sour,
Conserve the teeth;
Where ageing bachelors and mothers
Somehow tolerate each other’s
Anecdotes
And anthems by decayed sopranos,
Ancient waltzes, wheezy pianos,
And small-talk screwed-up like Meccanos,
And worn-out jokes:
Some . perhaps, may think it funny
Offering to buy with money
Such restraints;
But though money cannot buy all,
It can take part in the trial
Of the weekly self-denial
Of these saints.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A MONG the Dunrovins, Emoh Ruos,
and Idle-a-Whiles on the frame-
canvas and packing-case weekenders of
the poor-man’s reserve at Palm Beach,
Sydney, I noticed a neat sign, obviously
souvenired from some pub, which
seemed to sum-up weekenders once and
for all: Bottle* Dept. —“Sketch.”
♦♦♦
“Geep”: Signs of the times: A kid’s
moneybox, derelict, despoiled and dented,
lying on the footpath outside one of
Perth’s new s.-p. shops ; and the most fly-
spotted item in a country pharmacist’s, a
tube of fly-repellent ointment.
<s►
“Orang Puteh”: When I handed-over
the cable at the country post-office the
postmistress looked hard at the address,
hesitated, looked-up lists of towns in
Australia, and finally admitted she didn’t
know where Singapore was or how much
to charge. I took her copy of the Inter-
national Register of Telegraph Offices,
found Singapore and, putting a pound on
the counter, told her that at 2s. 6d. a
word the cost of the cable would be
“I had to rescue myself!"
17s. 6d. She looked at me in horror,
and, as she reluctantly took my £l, ex-
claimed : “Oh! What a shame! ”
❖ * ♦> ♦>
“J.E.8.”: During my last visit to Eng-
land I looked-over London from top
front-seats of double-decker buses. This
afforded opportunity to inveigle conduc-
tors into talking about placed of interest
along the route, which invariably they
did in fruity Cockney idiom and accent.
One conductor was so engaged when he
suddenly broke off ; “Gor’ blimey, guv’ner,
we’re there! I’ll ’ave ter git dahn an’
’elp some of the ole ducks orf, or they’ll
break their ruddy necks.” As the bus
slowed to a standstill he leaped to the
kerb. For the passengers’ information
he announced in a very loud voice that
it was Aldgate terminus and journey’s
end ; thus: “Awlgit—awlgit arht! ”
“Doynest”: Two years ago the account
for first-term fees for my son’s education
at a Melbourne public school was accom-
panied by a polite note saying that the
school council had decided not to raise
the tuition-fees, but to impose a sur-
charge of 2 i per cent, to cover rising
costs. The account for this year’s first
term has just arrived: tuition-fees are still
the same as two years ago, but the sur-
charge has risen to 35 per cent.! It’s an
education!
♦j* +*♦
“Pevin”: No wonder the Tasmanians
dismissed the Test side for under 200
in the first innings of the tourists’ match
in Launceston. According to the A.B.C.
commentator, at least one of the Tas-
manians could do what it would take two
or more ordinary men to do: this fields-
man, singlehanded, “converged rapidly on
the ball.”
❖ ❖
“Bo”: A frock-shop in Sydney’s indus-
trial suburb of Newtown closed-down and
was promptly snapped-up by a fruit-and-
veg. bloke. On opening-day he still hadn’t
removed the printed notice stuck on the
inside of the window by the previous
tenant, to the effect that lay-bys would
be accepted, but not cash-orders. Might
have been an oversight, but with lettuce
around three-bob each and caulis. at
three-to-the-quid, it might be that he is
striking a new, and probably acceptable,
note in the trade.
❖ ❖
‘ “Ceg”: R. D. Charlton (B. 21/3/’56)
certainly knows his legal gentry, and is
quite right in rating the costs-clerk so
high. Some years ago I made an appli-
cation to bring some General Law titles
under the Transfer of Land Act. The
months dragged on. During the long
wait I phoned the solicitor’s office three
times tq inquire how matters were pro-
gressing. When I received my bill of
costs (with compliments) there were
three entries reading: “To your telephon-
ing and our advising that the matter was
still not finalised, 10s. 6d.”
<* ***
“Kenyas”: A fellow giving up smok-
ing reckoned he’d be able to save about
£5 a month. For* the first few weeks he
couldn’t stop informing the world in
general how much better he felt. Three
months later the enthusiasm had de-
parted and he was even more of a chain-
smoker than he’d been before. “It’s this
way,” he explained earnestly; “I found
I was eating more and putting on several
pounds a week. Dieting made no differ-
ence ; my clothes got tighter and tighter.
After two months I knew I’d have to buy
a complete new wardrobe. I’d saved
about £lO, but I’d have to get at least two
new suits (at £25 each) not to mention
sports-clothes, underclothing and the rest.
I gave cigarettes away for the sake of
economy; I’ve taken them on again for
the same reason.”
*Z* ♦>
“Seppy”: Not so long ago we were
ordinary train-travellers. Thanks pro-
bably to the Yank influence which
provides us with fruitologists, etc., we
have become commuters. Some would
say we commute daily, but whereas my
dictionary, though it lists commuter as
“a season-ticket holder,” gives the verb
its original meaning only, of changing
one thing into/for another. Come to
think of it, having been commuted into
a commuter, perhaps I do commute after
all.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Ceg”: For the 79 years it was in use,
the strong-room door of the old Union
Bank at Wagga (N.S.W.) served as a run-
ning record of staff comings-and-goings.
"I Was hoping youd ask me to play."
One clerk wrote: “Lobbed, 7/4/1915.
Kicked out to Berrigan 7/2/1918.”
Among entries of more general interest
to Wagga are such items as “Snowed,
8/8/1899,” and “Drought broke,
1/6/1920.” Much of the record is of
branch-interest only, such as: “Annual
balance —1928 —completed by 5 p.m. No
night-work.” This was evidently unusual,
as the inscription is in red. The hand-
wrought iron spiral staircase in the bank-
tower, installed 70 years ago, now stands
in a garden at Woollahra, Sydney.
♦>
♦ “W.P.T.”: In the window of a little
library in Queen-street, Woollahra, can
be seen a couple of framed certificates:
Mrs. Elder, you are hereby appointed
Laundress to his Excellency the Right Hon.
the Earl of Dudley, P.C., G.C.M.G.,
G.C.V.0., Governor-General of the Com-
monwealth of Australia.
The second indicates that the same lady
was appointed
Laundress to Lady Rawson, by direction
of his Excellency Vice-Admiral Sir Harry
Holdsworth Rawson, K.C.8., Governor of
the State of New South Wales.
A couple of hundred yards away in a
little side-street in Paddington can be seen
the vice-regal coat-of-arms on the side
of a two-storied brick house. This was
the home of a member of the Provost
family who was appointed vice-regal
chimney-sweep by Lord Carrington. The
coat-of-arms, a work of art, is well cared
for.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Bunya”: Even temperance-hearts
might have beat faster over Bob’s excise-
additions: Brisbane Bungs reckon beer-
sales have dropped 10 per cent., and on
the day after beer weht up only four
gentlemen made up the Police Court’s
drunk-parade —usual number, about 30.
❖
“Rewo”: So “Geep” (B. 21/3/’56)
wants to know why the pronoun I is
written with a capital. Surely because it
stands for the most important person on
earth.
♦>
“G.M.”: You can blame George for
starting it. As he leaned against a post
on platform-16 at Central waiting for his
train he took out a pencil and wrote :
George stood here {date). Under this
stark pronouncement there now appears:
So did l {date).
Me, too {date).
So did Perce {date).
So did me {date).
I did, too {date).
What about me ? {date).
Which only goes to prove either that
Sydney trains are not running to schedule
these days" or some blokes haven’t much
to do.
♦♦♦ *t* +!♦
“P.0.M.C.”: The people semi-
detached from me have thrown 21st-
birthday- (daughter), silver-wedding-
anniversary- (themselves) and matricula-
tion-celebration- (son) parties on three
evenings of one week. My science-
magazine must be right in saying that
four hours’ sleep is ample for anyone—
except me.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Leech”: An old dear, readmitted to
the public hospital from a convalescent
home, provided a modern paraphrase of
the “Lady with the Lamp.” In some dis-
comfort as she answered the medical
officer’s queries, she at last burst out
anxiously with: “Tell the lady with the
lavatory to come quickly!”
“0.W.W.”: New Zealand waitresses of
today don’t seem to even know what
cocoa is. When a friend of mine asked
for the brew in a Wellington hash-
foundry the waitress looked # a bit
puzzled ; she returned with a bottle of
Yankee “coke.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mo Pish”: The newspaper-tipsters all
agree on the one horse, and the goddam
moke winds-up last to a 100-1 bolter!
♦♦♦
“Columba”: In one of our large State
schools, where the award allows annual
sick-leave of five days and five half-days,
one teacher or another would be absent,
sick, on Fridays. This punctual disease
was noticed at last by the Education
Department. An inspector sent to in-
vestigate found a fully-drawn-up roster
for Fridays-off for the staff in the
teachers’-room.
♦Jt <J4
“Ardoyne”: Award for the most
puzzling title for the leading-article of a
daily-newspaper this year should go to
Melbourne “Age.” Except to the trained
musician, “The Torment of the Aug-
mented Sixth” is as baffling and mysteri-
ous as the title of a Sax Rohmer thriller.
The augmented sixth, in music, is the
interval between the first note in the
scale to a semi-tone above the sixth note ;
played together, the two notes constitute
the unpleasing discord which was
selected for a new and strident whistle
with which Melbourne suburban trains
have been equipped. The Railways’ excuse
is that recent accidents have shown the
need for a striking and unmistakable
warning-signal.
• • « « •
“Narumee”: Victorian Railways’ new
“musical” train-homs have caused Mel-
bourne columnists to intersperse pars, with
indignant “Beeps!” and the Transport
Minister’s rest to be disturbed by phone-
calls from infuriated householders.
Children, it is reported, have been terri-
fied into nightmares, and workers kept
from their well-earned shut-eye. The
driver of the off-peak train I travelled
on played small, disdainful “beeps” for
small stations, defiant cadenzas for large
ones. And passing other trains at the
entrance to Flinders-street came a fan-
faronnade of joyous greeting. Yes, right
by the “Herald”-building!
“Ranji”: The Melbourne train-sirens
are described as “having a fundamental
tone of "B flat, with an interval of a per-
fect fourth and an augmented sixth,
specially selected to avoid confusion with
road motor-horns.” In the later hours
of the night, when sound carries so well,
a train can be heard leaving five-stations
up the line.
ADAGE-AMENDMENT
The adjuration never to
Do things by halves is well enough ;
Could we but strongly heed it, you
And l our jobs would never muff.
Yet should those words of wisdom be
Taken as final, absolute,
By one whose toil requires that he
Working in canning-factory
Slice the fruit ?
That sleeping dogs should be let lie
Is looked on as a sage remark;
It gains some point should it apply
To pooch that has a raucous bark.
Yet here’s a question I would like
To ask : Should I, entering my door,
A large, bellicose burglar strike,
Does this mean that for snoozing tyke
l mustn’t roar ?
That it is better far to give
Than to receive is something which,
For those who are content to live
By it, must make their lives more rich.
And richer yet, I’d boldly say —
Yielding the maximum of sweets —
Must follow, as the night the day,
When this applies in any way
To receipts.
“The woman pays!” That is a fact
Even man the brute will not deny.
How many a heart this truth has racked ?
How often has it brought a sigh ?
She still pays; but she’s not dismayed.
The old times are so far behind.
With jobs to burn these days, the maid
Is now so generously paid »
She doesn’t mind!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


The pick
of He bunch
since
L /847 i
Chla nd&
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
First president of Queensland’s v first
Musica Viva Society, Steven Kinston is,
of course, a first-class musician—and
something else besides. A graduate of
the Florence State Conservatorium,
Kinston, when here from Rumania in
1939, gave piano-recitals for the A.B.C.
Now president of the Queensland Sym-
phony Orchestra Subscribers’ Commit-
tee, he presides also over the Brisbane
Arts Theatre, one of the city’s three
main little-theatre groups. Kinston
works opposite His Majesty’s Theatre in
Queen-street, in which the State’s main
legit, theatre and ballet are boarded—
but he works there with drill and probe
in a dental-surgeon’s chambers. And he
could ply his trade elsewhere, with credit
—he’s a Doctor of Medicine as well. As
a recent achievement in his music-role,
it was his approach to the department-
store of Allan and Stark that resulted
in the financial guarantee which will
bring to Brisbane in May one of the
world’s finest string-quartets, the Pascal,
of Paris.
• •
“C.A.A.”: The Victorian Football
League has lost both its top administra-
tors with the resignations of president
Dr. W. C. McClelland and secretary L.
Mcßrien. New president is Ken Luke,
for long actively associated with the Carl-
ton club ; secretary is Eric McCutchan,
who has been assistant-secretary. Be-
tween them, McClelland and Mcßrien
served 56 years, during which time the
Australian game grew-up from infancy to
greatest winter crowd-attracting sport in
Australia.
• •
“U.”: Sir John Rankine, who was host
to Queen Elizabeth and the Duke of Edin-
burgh in Western Nigeria, is of Otago
(N.Z.) stock. Seventy-six years ago, at
Oamaru, Joseph Steel Dalzell married
Gertrude Helen Hardy, daughter of John
Hardy, civil-engineer. A daughter of the
marriage, Gertrude Hilda Dalzell, marded
Sir Richard Rankine, who served the
Empire in Fiji, Nyasaland, Zanzibar, and
other outposts. A son of Sir Richard and
Lady Rankine, born in Fiji in 1907, Sir
John followed in his father’s footsteps,
serving in tlje same countries in the Colon-
ial Service, as well as in Barbados and
Kenya. In 1952 he was British Resident
in Zanzibar, and after that Governor of
Western Nigeria. Educated at Christ’s
College, Christchurch (N.Z.), and Exeter
College, Oxford, Sir John entered the
Colonial Service in Uganda in 1931.
ALEXANDER McCORQUODALE,
managing-director of McCorquodale
Brothers, Sydney flourmillers; a
busy man at, and before, the Sydney
Show; he’s an R.A.S. vice-president.
Donald McLeari, who gave a talk to
members of Sydney Legacy recently on
“Automation and Tomorrow’s Citizens,”
is doing a pilot project for the Child Wel-
fare Department. After being headmaster
at various country schools in N.S.W., in-
eluding Broken Hill, Barham and
Griffith, he went to Bankstown, where he
collected some of the experimental
material for his book Education of the
Personality, which brought him a Car-
negie Fellowship. A couple of other
books since then (one a novel); another
book, Children in Need, is with the
printer. Stress of American business-life,
McLean remarked, is not relaxed for the
executive or office-worker who motors
to and from work along the car-choked
highways; and there are indications that
this stress is invading the home. In some
States in the U.S.A. the school-leaving
age has been raised to 18, and there is an
increasing emphasis on such subjects as
music, and on others designed to teach
young people to utilise their leisure.
• •
Professor J. A. Prescott, noted research-
worker at the Waite (S.A.) Institute, has
been elected international chairman of
the World Meteorological Organisation’s
working group on climate and agriculture.
Prescott has been a pioneer in the field
of climate-effect on Australian agricul-
ture and forestry.
SIR ROBERT NICHOLLS, Speaker
in the S.A. House of Assembly for a
record 22 years until the last elections
(which followed a redistribution).
Faced the electors 14 times, five times
unopposed, and weathered a couple of
earlier redistributions of his electorate.
“Uramao”: Maori lass Pat Mathieson,
from Qkato, Taranaki, is, I think, the
first woman of her race to don the uni-
form of the N.Z. Police Force. She
trained as a teacher at Auckland
Teachers’ College, then, joined the Army,
which gave her a job as teacher. It wasn’t
active enough for her, apparently: “I
wanted to do something different.”
• •
Ten years ago John P. Walsh left Mel-
bourne for New Zealand, having gradu-
ated with honors in Medicine and Den-
tistry from Melbourne University. He
came back as a guest-lecturer at the 14th
Australian Dental Congress —he’s Dean
of the N.Z. Dental School at the Univer-
sity of Otago. Children, he told a
Bulletin man, aren’t born with a “sweet
tooth.” Fruit and vegetables contain
enough sugar for energy purposes. Yet
Australia and New Zealand have among
the highest rates of tooth-decay in the
world. Why? “A vicious-circle.” Par-
ents, particularly those with false-teeth,
inflict their choice of soft, sweet foods on
their children, who lose their teeth and
replace them with false, become parents
and inflict soft food on their children. As
lecturer, examiner and observer,- the prof,
has visited the U.S.A., Canada, Great
Britain and Singapore. In none of these
places, he said, except perhaps Scotland,
was the dental problem greater than in
Australia and New Zealand. The root of
the problem, he said, is public apathy
towards dental health. Dentistry has
made great progress in technical and
scientific knowledge, and today could
largely control and prevent dental
disease, given the chance.
• ©
A. J. Reid, who retired from the W.A.
Public Service in 1954, after 40 years of
it (last 16 Under-Treasurer), has kept in
touch with things as a member of the
Commonwealth Grants Commission,
chairman of the State Electricity Com-
mission and chairman of the board of
management of Royal Perth Hospital.
Now he’s Chancellor of the Westralian
University, elected unopposed.
• •
Last October, Melbourne businessman
Paul Morawetz set forth to spread the
word about the Games. He’s now back
with the signatures of 30 mayors of
national capitals on the flag he carried.
He made headlines for the Games —and
for Melbourne —in Paris, Ontario, Rio de
Janeiro, Spain and the South American
republics, and appeared in newsreels and
on television. In London, Lord Mayor
Ackroyd added his monicker to the
signatures on the banner, followed later
by Queen Salote and by Donna Maria
Teresa del Canto Molina, of Santiago,
South America’s only woman Mayor.
Paul Morawetz is Austrian-born, of
Czech parents; graduated from Cam-
bridge, joined the Skoda Co. as manager
in Bangkok, resigned as a protest against
Hitler’s occupation of his mother-country,
and then landed in Australia. Two weeks
later he founded Tip Top Paints, which
now has factories in Townsville, Mel-
bourne, Perth and Hobart. Last year he
endowed the Perth Technical College with
the British Empire’s largest architectural
scholarship—£lo,ooo-worth of shares in
his paint-firm: the scholarship takes a
student overseas for post-graduate work
each year.
• •
Celebrated their 60th wedding-anniver-
sary in Perth, Albany Bell, veteran
caterer, and his wife, who left Adelaide
for Westralia as newlyweds in 1896. Bell
had visited Perth as a lad in 1887, when
the streets were of sand and there was
only one side to the main one, Hay-
street. First to make and sell milk-shakes
in Perth, he also made confectionery, and
eventually established a chain of rest-
aurants in Perth, Bunbury and on the
goldfields. The last development gave
rise to the old Perth joke about the
youngster who boasted that his father
had given his mother, as a Christmas-
present, silver teaspoons with Christmas-
bells on them. “That’s nothing,” said
his mate, “My mother has a lot of silver
teaspoons with Albany Bells on them.”
• •
“Morehead”: “Four years hard labor” is
Frederick T. Macartney’s description of a
literary undertaking of his which has just been
published (by Angus and Robertson): editing
an extension —up to 1950—0 f E. Morris Miller’s
well-known bibliography of Australian literature,
and writing an historical outline, besides more
than 300 commentaries (from a few lines to
2000 words each) on individual authors.
Macartney’s work includes a recent book on
poet Furnley Maurice. (This was one of two
projects under a Commonwealth Literary Fund
Fellowship, the other being a series of literary
essays due to appear in print some time this
year.)
Bom in Melbourne 68 years ago, Macartney
worked as clerk, freelance-journalist, shorthand-
reporter, and bookkeeper on a Riverina sheep-
station, and he edited “Birth,” a Melbourne
poetry-magazine which ran for six years. In
1921 he joined the Northern Territory public
service and became Clerk of Courts. Public
Trustee, Sheriff, and held other appointments
in the law-branch at Darwin, resigning in 1933.
Lectured then, for two years, on Australian
literature for Melbourne University Extension
Board (he has also given Commonwealth
Literary Fund lectures, same subject, to students
of four universities), reviewed Australian books
for the magazine “All About Books,” and has
contributed stories and critical articles to cur-
rent magazines. Several of his books of verse —
he has had a dozen published—are illustrated
with his own lino.-cuts. As a short-story writer
he is represented in Nettie Palmer’s An Aus-
tralian Story Book.
Succeeding J. H. Holmes as chairman
of the Queensland Southern Electric
Authority, Harold Corser, a leading light
in Brisbane’s solicitor-circles. Experi-
enced, too, in light himself —made a
director of City Electric Light Co., in
1941, and member of the S.E.A. since
it replaced the other body in 1953. Hails
from Maryborough, up the coast, and
directorially interested in insurance
DAVID N. MARTIN, of the Tiv.. who
combines an acute financial flair with
show-business, and who nursed the
Australian legitimate stage during the
bad years to see it flourish again during
the post-war stage revival. He was a
Westralian who came east, eventually
to stage the Old Vic, the Stratford
players, etc., and in whose Sydney Tiv.
the royal box still commemorates the
Queen’s visit.
At present principal at Thornburgh
and Blackheath Colleges at Charters
Towers (N.Q.), the Rev. C. D. Alcorn
becomes Brisbane-port chaplain. Used
to a watery diocese —was “sin-bosun” of
cruiser Shropshire for two years of her
Pacific stoushing.
• ©
Said to be the first deaf-and-dumb
migrant to reach Australia since War 11,
John Hume, a 35-year-old Scot, brings
with him a reputation for mural painting.
Three years ago he painted murals in the
Grand Hall and Royal residence-rooms
at Buckingham Palace. Specimens of his
work also appear in many London cafes
and restaurants. His sponsor, Miss
Doreen McLeod, a Westralian who is
also a deaf mute, made the voyage to
Fremantle with him, after spending three
years in England as a collector for the
Deaf and Dumb Society of Great Britain.
John Hume hopes to find work in Perth
as a decorator.
• •
Principal of the Textile College of the
Gordon Institute of Technology, Geelong
(Vic.), since 1945, W. R. Lang will join
a committee to advise on the establish-
ment of a textile-technology institute in
Rangoon. The Burmese Government had
sought this assistance under the Colombo
Plan. The institute will train operatives
for three spinning-and-weaving mills now
under construction.
• o
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 66, George Byrne, who,
practising his craft in the city, made shoes for
three Governors and one Premier of N.S.W.,
riding-boots for jockeys (Togo Johnstone used to
send his from France to be repaired), long shoes
for clowns, small ones for dogs.
At Masterton (N.Z.), at 79, Rev. A. T. Thomp-
son, 0.8. E., prime mover in the founding of the
big Presbyterian St. Andrews College in Christ-
church.
At 65, in Perth, Harry Wearn, 0.8. E., M.L.C.,
who during the Hitler disturbance was commis-
sioner for the Australian Comforts Fund in
Westralia. English, from Buckinghamshire, he
and his twin brother came to Perth in 1912 and,
starting with little capital, built-up one of the
State’s bigger furniture-manufacturing businesses.
At Columbus, Ohio (U.S.A.), at 59, Louis
Bromfield, novelist and writer of books about
farming. A surprising number of the latter were
sold in Australia.


CLOTHES AND THE MAN AND THE WOMAN


ABORIGINALITIES
r pWO months of almost continuous rain
has caused major upsets in the life
of the estuarine fauna of southern
Queensland and northern N.S.W. Crea-
tures of the tide-water are used to being
inconvenienced for a day or two by
occasional floods, but the abnormal con-
ditions have forced the estuarine fishes
out to sea, and burrowing crabs, shrimps
and prawns have all had their way of life
altered. For several days millions of
small soldier-crabs were trying to accom-
modate themselves to life on surf-beaten
ocean-beaches, but the struggle has
apparently been too tough for them. Lots
of big mud-crabs, tired of trying to live
“in smoke” in muddy floodwaters, have
come out of hiding and have been picked-
up on footpaths and streets and in back-
yards in built-up areas half-a-mile or
more from the nearest creek.—“Motuku.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Australian tradition, folk-
lore and even Australian bush-slang
seem to be rapidly dying out. The
other night a panel of quiz-kids failed to
get even near the meaning of “cocky’s
joy” or “Murrumbidgee waler.” One
hazarded a guess that “cocky’s joy” was
a damper, and another thought that a
Murrumbidgee waler might be one of
those paddlewheel steamers that travel
along the River Murray.
* * # *
“Baggyduds”: About 7.30 a.m., while
I was waiting at Fruitgrove (Brisbane)
for the carefree 7.26, two mongrel dogs
wandered on to the platform. The black
was the most nondescript, but his heavi-
ness indicated some spaniel ancestry: the
yellow had the litheness of, and looked
like, a dingo. The yellow jumped down
for a permanent-way inspection, and
That's a sweet little shimmy , Frogley. Make it yourself ?"
was followed reluctantly by the black.
Inspection over, the yellow, with an
almost imperceptible flick of his back,
leapt up to the platform. The black
floundered, but by standing upright he
could just get his front-paws over the
edge. Yapping with concern, the yellow
went over, grasped his mate by the scruff
of the neck and yanked him up. Then,
with both tails wagging overtime, they
wandered on.
* * * *
“Maitri”: One of last year’s brood of
magpies broke his leg, but we could
never get near enough to put it into
splints. Eventually the break healed and
he was as active as the rest of his family.
Now, with the long spell of wet weather,
he has started hobbling about again,
evidently afflicted by the rheumatism
which has also affected the cat and the
older human members of the household.
* * * *
“Baksac”: Blowlamps, being second-
cousins to the primus, have the exasper-
ating habit of going out at the most in-
convenient moment. Then it’s a mad race
to get out the box of matches and apply
the flame to the hissing gas before the
contraption has gone cold on the whole
idea. But there are tricks to all trades,
and a plumber recently surprised me.
When his blowlamp went out he dived
for a match and shoved it, unlighted, in
the place where the flame should have
been. Instantly, as though by magic, the
lamp was alight again ; and the match
wasn’t a wax one. Apparent explanation:
the escaping gas was hot enough to ignite
the match-head.
* * * *
“Honest Frank”: Taking the wrong
road out of Charters Towers (Q.) a few
years back we ended-up at Cardigan
cattle-station, about 28 miles south-east.
There hundreds of wild-pigs infest the
property and we saw a huge portable
crate-type of trap. It had a drop-gate
manually operated from a distance by a
rope, was baited with meat, and was
worked at night where the pigs were
thickest. Plenty of fine pigs had been
snared with it. With the current price of
pig, I’ve often wondered why someone
hasn’t tried something of the sort on a
commercial scale.
* * * *
“Motuku”: Regarding that query as to
why Major Mitchell parrots got the
name of “wee-jugglers,” some 50 years
ago there were enormous flocks of them
in the Mallee district, south of Mildura
(Vic.), and the aborigines called them
“widgigalah,” which our jugglers with
native words could easily alter to “wee
juggler.”
* * * *
“Malong”: Forty years ago the “good
oil” of Graham Phillips’s article (B.
7 / 3 / ’56) was collected in a more personal
and primitive way. Some Victorians may
remember Eucalyptus Joe, who worked in
the Dandenong hills. We met him in
the general-store, Upper Beaconsfield—
a rosy, grey, happy Irishman. He invited
us to come and see his work. His still
was a ship’s red square tank, placed on
big stones that made a fireplace, on the
edge of a running creek. A small dray
was close by; a big white horse and a
small tent further off. The still was work-
ing. A small lead-pipe coming out of
the top was bent sharply down to the
creek and lay in the cold water for
30yds.; at the end it was dripping oil and
water into a kerosene-tin, fixed in a hole.
The gully, tree- and fern-covered, was
fragrant with the scent of the pure oil.
Over our lunch we got old Joe talking.
Yes, he was Irish, from Donegal, “A
good place, but poor.” He recalled the
delight of trout-poaching, described
trout-“tickling.” Yes, he always had a
white horse ; could see him easier in the
“ Side-saddle , too."
bush . . . Eucalyptus Joe turned-up at
our camp before we left, to be glad of
needles and thread and the remains of
our food; he brought us a half-pint of
the pure oil, clear, pale-golden. It
lasted us for years. I hope old Joe died
in the bush, and was not shut up in some
Home for the Aged.
* * * *
“Bellfield” goes to the dogs:
The fact that the dingo is now recognised as
a true canine has no bearing whatsoever on the
origin of the ketpie, since there is no dingo
in the breed. In stating that there is, “Bass”
(B. 22/2/’56) repeats a deeply-ingrained fallacy.
Robert Kaleski, probably the greatest living
authority on Australian dogs, gives these facts
in his book Barkers and Biters : In 1870 a
sheepman and dog-fancier named Mylecharane
was greatly impressed by a pair of black-and-
tan, prick-eared dogs he saw working sheep
on Geraldton station (N.S.W.). From the owner,
a Mr. Allan, he learned that the dogs had been
imported from Scotland.
Mylecharane was offered the red pup of the
litter. It was exactly like a young dingo, and
he suggested that a misalliance may have
occurred. Allan ' was adamant that no such
thing could have happened, but Mylecharane
took the precaution of checking from Scotland.
He established that the breed descended
from a dog bred by a gipsy for poaching, a
cross between a smooth-haired black collie
and a fox, and that nearly every litter contained
a red pup like the one he had thought was part-
dingo.
Allan mated one of the pups to a bitch which
had been brought to the Lachlan by one
Gleeson and was named Kelpie, a common
name for Scottish sheepdogs. One of the pups,
a bitch, won the first sheepdog trial in Aus-
tralia under the name of Kelpie’s Pup, thus
establishing both the fame and the name of
“kelpie.”
Kaleski points out that even today an
occasional red pup in a litter will closely
resemble a fox. That one grows-up “foxy” in
its ways and less amenable to discipline than
its black-and-tan or blue brothers and sisters.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The boss was out, and
the new woman-assistant in the little
N.-Q. sugar-town chemist-shop was all
hot and bothered with the “No-spik-
Inglis” customer. He kept gazing wildly
around the shelves and repeating some-
thing that sounded like “bottle with
moustache.” The chemist returned,
grinned, and sold a bottle of liniment
whose label depicts a moustached gentle-
man, presumably the originator of the
formula. “They use a lot of it here,” the
chemist said, “and always ask for it like
that.”
* * * *
“Q.V.”: City miss on transfer to the
bush-town schoolteacher-staff saw her
first live sheep. Her host explained it was
a “killer.” “Just fancy!” she exclaimed.
“I didn’t know that a sheep could be that
vicious! ”
*** * *
“Saaedi”: Found a family of tawny-
frogmouths settled in a she-oak. Pa had
the premier position, and sat with eyes
closed, completely immobile, on an upper
branch. Just below him Ma, also drowsy,
made uneasy movements that seemed to
suggest some vague anxiety about her
progeny’s behavior. The two big babies
—almost white by contrast with their
dusky parents —were awake and active.
They flopped to and fro along a lower
branch, and even took flights to near-by
trees and back again. Sometimes they
huddled together and imitated the somno-
lent immobility of their elders but, though
I watched for a long time, they never
really settled down to sleep. Assuming
this is normal conduct for juvenile frog-
mouths —though, of course, further
evidence is needed —the conclusion
might be drawn that not so long ago this
species was diurnal in habit. Contrary
to popular belief, the frogmouth is not
related to the owl, though it may be to
the nocturnal nightjar.
*■* * *
A BLACK-BANDED orange hornet
selected for her nest-site the tapered,
rounded leg of my desk.
Survey-work occupied one afternoon;
building commenced next morning. Two
cells were built, filled and sealed the first
day, each about lin. by iin. by iin.; the
dark-brown wet-mud mixture dried a
light-tan color. The thick wall-bases
tapered to thin but strong sides and roof-
ing ; a temporary manhole on top was
fluted for easy access.
Always she built from the bottom up-
wards ; the horizontal top-wall of No. 1
cell formed the lower wall of No. 2. The
eggs were laid in the moist, empty cubicle,
before filling with five or six green looper-
grubs.
It took 90sec. to get a mud-pellet;
60sec. to mould, it into the clay igloo,
working head-downwards from the inner-
surface outwards, the two front legs
helping to guide the material, the man-
dibles shaping and plastering to perfec-
tion. It took anything from four minutes
to half-an-hour to bring in a grub.
She made a four-tier row of the base-
ment block, and started the second-
story in the same sequence, 5 atop 1, until
No. 7 was reached. Then she must have
lost the plans. Compartments went on
as bay-windows, as third-story rooms,
even a couple of attics —there was no
sense of system or order. It was any-
body’s guess where the next pantry-cwm-
egghouse would go.
Why? Well, it was summer; from
about 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. the hornet took
siesta; often she parked on the' cool
surface of the canvas waterbag. Rain
halted construction; but a couple of
cool days saw great progress. And not
once were grubs left in the open tomb
overnight; it was left empty or filled and
sealed before nightfall.
By the 10th day 15 cells were com-
pleted ; then followed reinforcement and
finishing-touches. She spelled all one
afternoon. At daylight a series of short
inspections took place; then she went
through. The job was finished!
Was it? Next morning work started
again! In three days nine more rooms
were put on ; then something happened:
she never returned from a last routine
trip.
The nest looks like a small termite
mound ; it represents 16 hornet-working-
days, and contains over 100 grubs, the
enemy of man. The builder may per-
haps have been slapped-down by some
unthinking oaf. But there are plenty
more free building-sites around this joint
for Madame Hornet’s tribe.
QUO VADIS.
VISIT TO BALLARAT
Some people have been to Ballarat
To dig for gold, and things like that,
Much the same, I would have you know,
As others went to Bendigo;
And some have gone to Ballarat
To row on the lake, or sit and chat,
To listen to festivals euphonious,
See Gordon’s cottage, or else the begonias—
But we went up to Ballarat
As a change from the place we were staying at.
And so, farewell a while to Kew,
With Mother, and Myra; and Lloyd went, too.
We went for a walk without a hat,
Although it was cold in Ballarat,
Down to the Old Curiosity Shop,
Where the broken bottles and teapots stop,
And Mother was ill. “That ostrich mat
Made me feel sick,” she said. So we sat.
Later we walked to the old stockade —
Eureka! —and sat again, in the shade.
Next day there were things to be goggled at:
The cottage, begonias, statues. “My hat,”
Lloyd said, “We’re certainly tnaking merry,
With first one trip, then two, on the ferry!”
And Myra said: “Oh, look, wliat’s that?”
We had found a Maze, at Ballarat.
We walked and walked, where the hedges wound,
But all came out again, safe and sound,
Fit to return from Ballarat,
Back to the place we were staying at.
VICTORIA.
PETER BLADEN.


fTHE muttonfish was one of the
-*■ most important sea-foods of the old-
time Maori, who called it paua. It is
still eaten, as a delicacy, by Maori and
pakeha alike. Method of preparation is
to discard the soft part, wrap the rest in
a cloth and beat with a rolling-pin. Some
prefer to put it through a mincer, but if
cooked for more than three minutes it
becomes tough. The whole shells were
used to make the eyes of carved-wood
ancestral-figures. Pieces of shell attached
to wooden shanks made effective fish-
lures for kahawai and kingfish. A beau-
tiful dark, opalescent blue-green inside,
paua is extensively used in the manufac-
ture of N.Z. souvenirs. Scientific name
of the largest and commonest is Haliotis
iris. There are three N.Z. species. A
close relative is the abalone-shell of
California.—“W.H.-S.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: I support “Jonl’s” claim
that snakes have hypnotic power over
birds (B. 29/2/’56). On a Diamantina
(Q.) fishing-trip we heard the hysterical
chatter of a little brown-and-yellow bush-
canary in a big coolibah. High up in the
foliage the bird hammered out its frantic
SOS, but was apparently unable to move,
as a carpet-snake, about 3ft. away, drew
slowly nearer, head swaying and tongue
flickering. We shot the snake, but it was
quite a while before the shocked bird
could fly away. It took 20 minutes for
the snake’s body to relax and fall to the
ground.
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: The verdant, rolling hills
around the Kiama-Gerringong (N.S.W.)
district, laced as they are with stone
hedges (stacked without benefit of mor-
tar), must bring many a sigh of nostalgia
from Old Country folk. Early settlers
found the land covered with countless
stones, flung, no doubt, from the volcano
at near-by Bombo in ancient times. In
clearing the land and building boundary-
fences which cost them only labor they
killed, as it were, two birds with millions
of stones. Some of the walls are reputed
to have been built by Chinese who were
run-off or starved-out of the gold-
diggings.
* * * *
“Spud”: Fruit-picking was in full-
swing at Mildura (Vic.). A boxer —home-
town, Swan Hill —was billed for a fight.
His surname: Sultana.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: If “Brick E.” (B.
14/3/’56) had taken his spectacles back
to optician or oculist he would have been
spared all that trouble and would have
lost the price of a perfectly good par.
All that was wrong was that the axis of
the cylindrical correction for astigmatism
was set at the wrong angle. If the lens
was circular, it only needed rotating in
the frame till the distortion was cor-
rected ; if elliptical then either the
oculist had made a mistake in indicating
the angle of the axis on the prescription-
diagram, or the optician had ground it
at the wrong angle—both highly impro-
bable, but possible. Either of them would
have detected the mistake in a few
seconds.
• * * *
“Kenyas”: Only actual instance of no
male congregation whatever for a church-
service that I’ve heard of happened at a
small N.S.W. country township. There
was not even a church-official present to
hand out books or take the collection.
Late on the Saturday night police had
raided a sly-grog set-up in a near-by neck
of the woods, with the result that all the
menfolk of the place were either lan-
guishing in durance vile or were busy
trying to bail-out relatives and friends.
“G ravel snatcher”
The cyclone that re-
cently smashed Onslow
and Geraldton and up-
set Carnarvon came
close enough to Perth
to drive ashore thou-
sands of sea-birds, in-
cluding odd ones of
kinds seen only once in
a lifetime, among these
the white-tailed tern, a
migrant from the
swamps of southern
Europe and northern
Africa and possibly
central Asia. With the
exception of a few seen
near Broome in 1945, it
hasn’t been authentic-
ally reported in W.A.
since it appeared in
thousands in 1917 and
fed around the south-
west lakes and estuaries
for several weeks in
•late autumn. It pro-
bably arrives each year,
but isn’t seen because
it only comes ashore
during a big blow; we
don’t get many of these
in autumn, and by the
time our winter gales
arrive it’s back in
Europe.
“Apemantus”: Television-researchers
and publicity-men, combing the U.S.A.
for a family that had never seen TV,
found it in Winnemuca (pop. 3500), “a
remote spot in Nevada,” says the report
in our Perth paper, “inaccessible except
by aircraft, train or automobile.” Its
backward nature, evidently, renders it
unapproachable by submarine.
* * * #
“Four Threes”: Bricky had bought him-
self a watch, and every few minutes on
the trip he told old Crusty the progress
of the train. “Y’re losin’ time,” he advised
after the first section. “Y* dropped a
minute,” Crusty was told halfway
through the trip. When they approached
the last and heaviest section Bricky
flashed the timepiece again. “Two
minutes behind it,” he announced.
Crusty took it all in silence up till then,
but now replied casually, “I’d better do
somethin’ about it, eh?” Crusty wound
the cut-off lever out, and the engine
bored forward like a rocket. Bricky
“Say when!"
swung on the banjo to keep up with it,
but was soon down to his singlet, with
the sweat pouring off him to beat the
steam-gauge. When they reached the ter-
minal Crusty inquired, “’Ow did we go
f’r time?” “Gawd! Five minutes ahead
of it,” Bricky moaned, and from then
on let Crusty worry about the time-
table.
* * * *
“Ranji”: Further to “Noah’s” com-
ments on cruelty to bikes (B. 14/3/’56).
As a ppstie I ride about 150 miles a week
in one of Melbourne’s outer areas. I’ve
seen the violent pounding P.M.G. grids
suffer, yet they seldom get adequate
maintenance. Our superiors say that
we try, by devious means (mainly gutters),
wreck our bikes. Those who ride them
“This Wasn't on the itinerary, but I don't think the company
will make any extra charge."
know that the only way to do this is to
ride them under a moving truck. Short
of this, they rattle inexorably on. Writ-
ing this par. reminds me that tomorrow
is the one day in the week we are allotted
ten minutes extra on to our rostered shift
to effect all repairs, and cleaning, of our
“tank.”
* * * *
“Jas.”: Having lost three successive
broods in two years to currawongs, the
peewees took special precautions, and
built their new home much higher than
formerly, and on a site where it was
almost hidden in leaves. Best of all, they
chose as neighbors a pair of nesting gill-
birds. Youngsters hatched, and the curra-
wongs came again and again, but this
time the gallant defenders never fought
alone. No sooner was the battle under
way than the warlike gill-birds joined
in, whereupon the sombre assassins re-
treated in disorder. Between one thing
and another the peewees’ precautions paid
dividends, and a few weeks ago they
proudly led their three gawky youngsters
on to my lawn.
* * * * .
“Icinit”: Aunt Hilda’s shortsighted and
absentminded, but there’s nothing wrong
with her voice and hearing. She lives
alone in a cottage surrounded by about
an acre of grass which her nephews are
expected to keep under control. I put in
a solid day mowing, scything and clip-
ping. She fed me and purred over me ;
I was right in the boom. A few days
later she rang up, and the gist of it was:
“Yes, I’m well enough, but no thanks to
my hulking great nephews , . . surely
some of you could spare a bit of time
. . . garden all untidy and overgrown . . .
did you send the man who worked here
on Saturday? . . . not much good . . .
your uncle wouldn’t have put up with
him for a minute . .
* * * •
THE MYSTIC RING
Magpie and robin and bellbird sing
In symphony o’er this mystic ring,
Sequestered and lone in its grove so fair
With wattle and bluebell and maidenhair.
Did fairies dance on its moonlit strand,
Or elf-foik play on its soft white sand,
Did Druids meander, a long-lost band,
To this sunkissed grove in an Austral land?
Trouped here in their primeval pageantry
The Kamilaroi in corroboree,
When painted and plumed the striplings wait
The rites that call them to man’s estate?
Or yet some creed, some cult'of the wildwood,
Nursing as wisdom the myths of childhood,
Whom Nature herself called strong and clear,
To praise the gods of the bushland here?
The Sacred Symbols .bronze on the sand,
Hurled in haste, from the High Priest’s hand,
Tell of the ferocious, infidel raid,
That blasted the bliss of this hallowed glade.
No more the faces rapt to the sky,
Nor fervent stares where the Symbols lie:
Bracken and briar and bluebell fling
A smothering pall o’er the two-up ring.
N.S.W.
HILTON BARTON.
OVER THE MOUNTAIN
ME and Fred and Nugget is headin’
across the divide to a buildin’-job
at Lost Plains. The ute is a converted
tourer, model about ’2B, with torn and
flappin’ hood, but the motor beats sound
and eats-up the’ climb.
In the back is our gear, extension-
ladder and a coffin which we got last place
we stop, when a little cove from the store-
and-post-office follows us into the pub
and fronts Nugget and asks are we goin’
to Lost Plains.
“Yair,” says Nug.
“Listen,” the bloke says, “there’s an
old cove, Sam Briggs, shuffled off over
there yest’day mornin’. They rang
through for me t’ get a coffin there. I’ve
got it this far, an’ it’d save me a trip if
you’d put it on y’r truck.”
“That’s 0.K.,” Nugget grins. “It’ll
cost you a beer.”
It costs us all beers before we get goin’
again on the windin’ road up the
mountain.
The curves get sharper and steeper as
we go, and about a couple of miles on
Nugget pulls-up in a hollow where there’s
a little stream runnin’ over the stones.
“Too cramped with three in the front,”
he growls.
Fred leers at me and digs out a coin.
Tails wins the front-seat, and Fred climbs
into the back. There’s a light drizzle
failin’, with sleet in it. Fred lifts the
lid of the coffin. Then he eases himself
in and lowers the lid.
It gets foggy and bleaker as we near
the last run up to the summit. There’s a
sign of life, though. It turns out to be
a New Australian leadin’ a motorbike.
“She no-a go,” he says, when we pull-
up. “No-a pet-rol. No-a spark. No-a
blooda nothin!”
He plants a vicious kick in the region
of the creature’s, carburettor.
“All right,” Nugget says, “we’ve got
room for you and the bike in the back
till we get to the village.”
We heave the machine up, and Luigi
goes to climb in. Then he starts vio-
lently at the sight of the coffin. I leg
him up, and he squats miserably as far
back in the corner as he can get, still
gogglin’ at the box. Not a stir from
Fred.
We make the top at last, and after a
bit of easy downhill goin’ we strike a
stretch like the big-dipper at Luna Park.
Nugget slams the bomb into low and
bums off the last bit of brake we had.
I hang on to the gear-lever to stop it
buckin’ out. There’s a wild yell and a
lurch from the back, but it’s a fast
quarter-mile on before we get to a stop
on an easier grade.
Fred stands up, stretchin’, as we race
round to the back.
“Where’s your mate?” Nugget asks.
“Who, the character that was in here?”
says Fred. “Just back there I lifts the
coffin-lid, pokes me skull out a bit, sees
him and asks was it still rainin’. Y’
must’ve heard him yell as he sprung
clean out the back and tore off into the
scrub like a wallaby. Whyinell didn’t y’
stop ?”
BARDIE.


Cap* f<4
\
'QUEENSLAND
s
*
NEW. SOUTH WALES
v/
VICTORIA.
form
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.B.E. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
District Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT 23
Business, Rollery, Etc.
THE TITANIUM BOOM
THE “black sands” on the
beaches of northern N.S.W.
and southern Queensland, in-
triguing but mostly unprofitable
in pre-war years, are now the
centre of interest in Australian
mining-share activity.
One of the oldest companies
in the business is leading in the
activity. Zircon Rutile, Ltd. —the
last co. in Sydney stock-list,
though hardly the last card in
the pack—was formed in 1934,
with the aid of Melbourne share-
broker Wallace H. Smith, a
canny gentleman who has struck
the jackpot with several other
successful Australian mineral
ventures.
It was formed mainly to
recover zircon (used in the
making of ceramics and refrac-
tories as well as in ferro-alloys)
at Byron Bay (N.S.W.). It has
now swung over to rutile-produc-
tion in a big way, and is making
large profits.
Zircon Rutile has an issue of
255,000 shares of 10s. each. These
sold as low as 14s. in 1955. Last
week ttyey were traded at 80s. A
div. of 2s. a share was paid on
March 28, and before that Is. 3d.
was handed-out on October 6,
1955. A total of £166,800 has
been paid in dividends to date.
Another concern of immedi-
ate interest is Associated
Minerals Consolidated, Ltd.,
which has an issue of 428,000 ss.
fully-paid shares and 214,000
contribs. It is operating in
Queensland, and has recently
paid a sixpenny div. Last week
shareholders were advised not to
sell their shares “while certain
negotiations are in progress
which may be of benefit to share-
holders.” Some shareholders
promptly sold their shares at
prices up to 38s. 6d., a rise of
12s. in two days.
A Sydney co. with overseas
negotiations in hand is the Rye
Park co., with interests at Port
Macquarie (N.S.W.). There is
not so much jubilation in the
market for this co.’s shares,
partly because there are five mil-
lion of them issued. The 25.-
paids arp selling at 2s. 9d.
Titanium Minerals, Ltd., with
leases at Jerusalem Creek (near
Evaps Head, N.S.W.), was the
leading figure in an unhappy
Stock Exchange boom a couple
of years ago. It was thought that
tin-values on the co.’s property
were much better than they later
proved to be. The co. is now
concentrating on titanium
minerals again, and the share-
market is reviving after a heavy
slump in the shares. There are
255,000 ss. shares issued, which
last week sold at 16s. Overseas
interests have had an eye on
the Titanium property.
There are many more com-
panies and syndicates, listed and
unlisted, clustering round the
beaches of the Australian east
f coast. On Stradbroke Island a
large-scale expansion programme
'by Titanium and Zirconium
Industries Pty., Ltd., is expected
to increase production in Queens-
land, which is at present trailing
behind that of N.S.W.
Even some Sydney surfing
beaches are being “prospected.”
The revived interest in N.S.W.
and Queensland beach-sands is
chiefly the result of the increas-
ing demand for rutile, which is
at present the main basic raw
material in the commercial pro-
duction of titanium.
Titanium, which is somewhere
between aluminium and stain-
less-steel in weight, has excep-
tional properties where lightness,
high strength and resistance to
corrosion and heat are desirable.
About 90 p.c. of existing titanium
output has been used in aircraft
frames and engines. (It is of
particular value in jet-aircraft.)
Until recently metallurgical
problems made the extraction
of pure titanium from rutile
difficult, but American and
U.K. research has largely
overcome this problem.
An estimate by the Bureau of
Mineral Resources (Canberra)
made in 1955 put at 3.6 p.c. of
the price of the metal the cost of
the rutile-content as paid to the
Australian producer. It is thus
possible that if the extraction and
refining processes are improved
considerably, the Australian pro-
ducer might get a higher price
than at present" but with the cost
of refined metal so much lower
as to widen the ordinary com-
mercial demand for it.
There are three titanium
metals — zircon and ilmen-
ite. Today the main concentrate
exported from Australia is rutile,
and zircon is recovered prin-
cipally as a by-product. Much
of the zircon rough-concentrate
is stockpiled; the Australian
ilmenite, which contains
chromium-oxide that makes it
unsuitable for titanium pigment,
is mostly dumped.
At present Australia leads the
world in production of rutile,
with an output of about 60,000
tons in 1955. In 1954 the U.S.A.
came next with about 6000 tons,
but 24,000 tons annually is ex-
pected to come from Mexico
shortly. Available rutile reserves
on the Australian east coast were
recently estimated by the Bureau
of Mineral Resources at 700,000
tons in high-grade deposits going
more than 401 b. to the cubic
yard, and a “minimum of
1,500,000 tons in low-grade
deposits (approximately 201 b. of
rutile per cubic yard).”
It appears that for some time
rutile will remain the main
source of titanium, because of
its easier working, particularly
during the period that extraction-
processes are being perfected.
But already there is some pro-
duction of titanium as a by-pro-
duct from ilmenite-smelting.
Thus, while the immediate future
looks bright for rutile, it is pos-
sible that titanium-producers
will conduct research into the
treatment of ilmenite, of which
there are larger known deposits
throughout the world, and in the
end rutile could be by-passed
as the source-metal of titanium,
even though still used in the
welding-rod and other industries.
It can thus be seen that the
future of the rutile-industry is
“in the melting-pot” in more
ways than one. It is unquestioned
that there is a great demand for
titanium. Its use is spreading
every year, and in the event of
war would be a top-priority
metal. But whether there is
enough rutile in sight in the
world for metallurgists to hitch
their laboratories and titanium
treatment-plants to it in a big
way is another matter.
For the present, Australia,
with exports at the rate of about
70,000 tons of rutile a year, leads
the world in the quality and
quantity of its rutile-production.
In 1945 the Commonwealth
Government restricted the export
of mixed concentrates, and
finally banned it in 1949. As
a result, Australian rutile and
zircon concentrates have acknow-
ledged pre-eminence in the
world’s markets.
Taxes, Loans and Works
n EPORTS of the Prime
Minister’s defence of his
“supplementary Budget,” as
given at a press-conference last
week, are far from clear,
though the obscurity may
not be the P.M.’s fault. Sydney
“Herald” said that Mr. Menzies
“denied that the Government in-
tended to finance State works
from taxation revenue.” Also,
“This story that we are abandon-
ing the ideh of raising money
“I was wondering , if We fail to get an acquittal , could
I have your flat ?”
from the loan-market is, of
course, quite puerile.”
It appears, from any common-
sense interpretation of what the
P.M. did say, that what he means
is that the Government doesn’t
intend to finance all State public
works from revenue. But in talk-
ing of the Commonwealth’s cash
deficit for 1955-56 of £3O million,
compared with a Budget surplus
of about £49 million, he is
obviously referring to the deficit
which the Commonwealth will
incur on behalf of the States in
respect of their public-works
programmes. Otherwise the in-
ference would be that the
Commonwealth was contemplat-
ing expenditures for which it has
no Parliamentary sanction.
(On March 14, in his initial
announcement, the Prime
Minister explained that the
“overall cash deficit” arose from
“the state of the loan-market”
and the fact that “cash has
already had to be provided to
meet heavy redemptions.” There
will be further large offerings of
conversion-loans during the next
few,years.)
As has been mentioned
frequently enough, the hew
taxes will in the remaining three
months of this financial year
provide the £3O million of addi-
tional revenue necessary to offset
the cash deficit. In the whole
of 1956-57 the additional revenue
is expected to be £ll5 million.
Mr. Menzies last week made
it clear that the cash deficit of
£3O million is estimated on the
basis of £3O million being raised
from the loan-market before the
close of this financial year—May
has been suggested as the dgje of
the offering. If the £3O million
were not raised, the cash deficit
would run to £6O million.
The present open-market rate
for long-term Commonwealth
bonds is 5 p.c. or more, com-
pared with £4 10s. per cent,
previously. The local-govern-
ment rate now being offered is
from 5i p.c. to 5f p.c., with the
term usually from five years to
15-20 years.
Clearly, the next £3O million to
be offered by the Common-
wealth will be the subject of
considerable speculation from
the investor’s point of view, and
of considerable pondering from
the Treasury’s angle.
Touching on the criticism
which has been directed towards
the fact that no cut in the public
service has accompanied the in-
creased taxes, Mr. Menzies said
that the Federal Government
had reduced the Commonwealth
civil service by 16,000 between
June, 1951, and June, 1954. In
June, 1951, the total was 163,000.
Eleven weeks ago the figure was
153,000. If people wanted a
“bulk” cut in the civil service,
the P.M. said, the only way to
achieve it was through abandon-
ment of some of the functions
of government.
The Shape of Imports
TMPORTS for the six months to
December 31, 1955, were
greater by £22 million than for
the last six months of 1954.
The trend, however, showed
some falling-away from the
levels reached in the first half
of 1955. The monthly rates of
imports by quarters during 1955
were as follows:
1955 — £ million f.o.b.
January-March .. 74.6
April-June .. .. 76.0
July-September .. 69.4
October - December 68.4
The following table shows the
main Australian imports in the
period July to November, 1955,
compared with imports during
the corresponding period of
1954 and the financial year
1954-55 (full details of imports
for the month of December,
1955, are not yet available):
July-Nov.— Year
’55 ’54 ’54-’55
Foodstuffs — (£million f.0.b.)
Tea 4 8 22
Other .... 8 9 24
Tobacco .... 6 5 17
Raw cotton 3 4 9
Yarns, fibres .. 12 12 27
Tpxtilps—
Piecegoods .. 28 29 70
Other .... 7 8 16
Apparel .... 5 5 14
Petroleum .... 39 37 92
Iron and steel—
Tinplate ... 5 5 15
Other .... 16 12 34
Motor - vehicles 32 26 71
Other metal
mfrs 22 23 67
Electrical .... 14 11 29
Other machines—
Tractors ... 7 9 20
Other .... 36 34 88
Crude rubber . 7 4
Timber 7 5 16.
Pulp, paper, board —
Printing paper 7 7 19
Other .... 7 7 17
Drugs, fertilisers
and chemicals 13 11 28
Prefab, buildings 1 1
Outside packages 6 6 15
Other 58 49 124
Total 349 327 847


YOUR MONEY
1 M ' T 1C RJ
B/.> BH. ’ B B 5 I^Bl
I
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE CO. LTD. (l Established 20 years)
Offers You This Outstanding Opportunity
• Security of £242 for every £lOO you invest. • An Issue of Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock. • Assets exceed £5 Million. 6 A hedge against inflation by taking
advantage 'of the Coupons issued with all long-term Debentures.
Currency
(Long Term).
10 years
9 »
8 ;
7
6 „
5 „
Kate of Interest.
6J% per annum
6i%
6i%
6i%
6%
6%
Coupons.
50%
45%
40%
35%
30%
25%
OF FACE
VALUE OF
DEBENTURE
STOCK
COUPONS entitle the holder to purchase ordinary shares at par (5/-) on 31st December,
1958, in the proportion shown above.
Medium Term Also Short Term
4 years ~. 6% per annum 12 months 5% per annum 9 months 42% per annum
3 „ 52% „ „ 6 months 4% per annum 3 months 32% per annum
if 5% • t , f
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY FREE OF EXCHANGE
HERE IS HOW YOU CAN DOUBLE YOUR CAPITAL IN 10 YEARS:—
You purchase (say) £5OO of 10-year debentures .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £5OO 0 0
On December 31st, 1958, you exercise your option to purchase 1000 ordinary shares
at par (5/-) £250 0 0
£750 0 0
YOU GET:
-k Interest for 10 years at 62% per cent. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £325 0 0
-k A dividend of 15 per cent, on 1000 shares for 7 years (per medium of coupon rights) .£262 10 0
■k Your debenture capital back in 1966 .. .. •. .. • • .. .. .. £5OO 0 0
-k The market value of 1000 shares (based on the present price of 7/3) .. .. .. £362 10 0
£1,450 0 0
This means you invest £5OO (in debentures) for ten years and £250 (in shares) for seven years. That is an
average investment of £675 for the ten-year period.
THEREFORE:—
-K The return of £1,450 is more than double your average investment,
k Your income is better than 10 per cent, per annum on your average investment.
Prospectus now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE—ALL BRANCHES OF BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES, and from the Company’s Office.
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE CO. LIMITED
316 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. MA 9701 (19 lines).
Trustees for the Debenture Issue: Brokers to the Issue :
Perpetual Trustee Company. Clarence Degenhardt, Manning & Co. C. B. Quinan & Cox.
POST THIS COUPON FOR PROSPECTUS:—
The Treasurer,
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE CO. LTD.,
316 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please forward copy of First Mortgage Deben-
ture Stock Prosvectus.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
(BLOCK LETTERS PLEASE)
Faith in ihc
m^
'<#**«■
mi
Future
With Easter holiday traffic on the highways,
the Australian motorist should pause and examine
his conscience.
If he needs an aid to his contemplation, here
it is:
In the year to last June, 2042 people were
killed and 46,465 injured on Australian roads. New
South Wales alone contributed 40 per cent, of the
deaths and 34 per cent, of the number of injured.
Altogether, in the last five June years, 9852
people were killed and 203,970 injured on
Australian roads.
The picture is worse in that most motorised
of all countries, the United States of America.
Last year 38,000 people died on the U.S. roads.
This brought the total killed to more than the
1,300,000 lives lost in all the wars in which
Americans have ever been engaged.
For each of the 578,000 Americans who died
in the two World Wars and in Korea, two
Americans have died on home highways since the
motor age began.
So it’s a world problem, you may say. It is,
and its special importance in Australia is that
able-bodied manpower is so precious for the task
of nation-building that is ahead of us.
The economic loss in road accidents is
enormous. But greater than material cost is the
grief and suffering that these accidents bring to
humanity.
So we may well pause and ask ourselves:
What are we going to do about it?
Much can be done. Governments can build
better and safer roads, and build them quickly with
the aid of modem mechanical equipment. Traffic
authorities can see that road laws are respected,
and Courts can impose suitable penalties on those
who breach them.
But finally the rate of accident depends largely
on the individual. His attitude on the roads will
chiefly decide whether this tragic waste is to go
on mounting, or whether more lives are to be
spared to enjoy the Australian future.
7
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
A BIG gap in Finance Minister
Watts’s recent financial
statement, in which he gave the
terms of the Government’s £5O-
- conversion loan (N.Z.
currency), was filled a few days
later by the announcement of a
rise of one-half per cent, in the
local bodies’ borrowing-rate.
The new rate is 4f per cent.,
compared with Government rates
of 4 \ per cent, for short-term
and 41 per cent, for long-term
stock.
Traditionally, local bodies
have been permitted a margin of
one-quarter per cent, above the
Government’s long-term rate,
but, by issuing its own recent
loans at a discount, the Govern-
ment had, in effect, already re-
duced that margin to one-eighth
per cent. The reduction has now
been embodied in the basic rates.
Spokesmen for some of the
bigger local bodies have wel-
comed the j p.c. rise as at least a
step toward meeting their pro-
blems, but the smaller authori-
ties, whose works may be no less
desirable, will probably continue
to find difficulty in raising long-
term finance. If they are to
accept their position at all
philosophically, the Government
will need to make an obvious
effort to carry out its promise
to review its own expenditure
with a view to curtailment.
Because of its big conversion-
operation, the Government
naturally does not want too
much competition in the money-
market meantime. In any case
it doesn’t want to make it pos-
sible for local bodies, whose
capital-expenditure has increased
by 28 p.c. in the last two years,
to embark on any but the most
essential new works. Maori-
land’s rate of capital investment,
about 23 p.c. of the gross
national product, js one of the
highest in the world, and Mr.
Watts has announced as a
fundamental objective of his
current policy the reduction of
pressure on supplies of finance,
labor, buildings and machinery.
The Auckland Harbor Bridge
Authority got a head start in the
race for local-body finance. Its
prospectus for a £375,000 loan
(N.Z. currency) at 4,1 P-c. was
actually in circulation before
the new rate was officially
announced, and early maturity-
dates were quickly snapped-up
by investors.
Market yields on current
Government stocks have shown
a tendency to stabilise at around
the new 4| p.c. rate. Though
the rise in interest was, broadly,
anticipated, investors have, since
it became an accomplished fact,
shown an inclination to bring
share-y i e 1 d s under closer
scrutiny.
Savings-bank Interest
Savings-bank deposit-rates are
now being reviewed by Treasury
officials, and the announcement
of a rise should not be long
delayed. Depositors are entitled
to expect that it will be substan-
tial. The main burden of Mr.
Watts’s recent financial talk to
the public was the need for thrift.
But it is no use talking about the
need to save without offering an
adequate incentive. The present
2\ p.c. maximum paid by the
Post Office is niggardly in the
extreme. There can be no doubt
that it has been partly respon-
sible for the recent sharp fall in
the rate of small savings. In the
calendar-year 1955 withdrawals
actually exceeded deposits by
£42,000, whereas in the previous
year deposits exceeded with-
drawals by £8 million.
Mr. Watts has pointed out
that, for the round-figure sum of
£2OO million in the Post Office
Savings Bank, a rise of i p.c.
would increase the Government’s
bill for interest by a million a
year, even without any conse-
quential addition to deposits.
No fault can be found with the
arithmetic, but the implication
that it contains any justification
whatsoever for delaying an
increase in the rate is entirely
unfounded.
The Government has the
money and should be prepared
to pay for it at something nearer
its real value. True, Post Office
deposits are at call, but, in prac-
tice, a fairly large proportion
can be regarded as on fixed-
deposit. Many small savers are
persons who do not invest in
any other way, but it would be
quite unjust for the Govern-
ment to attempt to take advan-
tage of that fact.
The Government is known to
be considering other methods
of making saving more attrac-
tive ; perhaps by some form of
tax-concession, but, in view
of current economic conditions,
these measures might well be
supplementary to a rise, in
interest, not merely an
alternative.
Trustee savings-banks have
also recently suffered a sharp
decline in the rate of deposits.
Their interest-rates would, of
course, be adjusted at the same
time as those of the Post Office.
Meantime, building-societies and
other institutions are awaiting an
official answer to applications for
adjustment of their rates.
Overseas Funds
Continued improvement in
Maoriland’s overseas exchange
position is revealed by the
February figures. The surplus for
the month was £11.5 million,
against £3.8 million in January
and £5.6 million in February last
year. Total receipts, at a record
£3B million, were almost £lO
million higher than in February,
1956. In spite of the credit
squeeze, however, private im-
ports remained at the fairly high
level of £l7 million, only
£330,000 less than in February,
1955. Nonetheless, even at that,
they were lower than in any
month since June, 1954.
For the twelve months ended
February the deficit was £2O
million, against £29 million in the
previous year. Receipts were
£39 million higher, but payments
increased by £3O million. On the
receipts side, butter brought in
£5O million (£29 million in 1955),
cheese £l9 million (£lO million),
meat £66 million (£52 million)
and wool £97 million (£9l mil-
lion). On the payments side the
main factor was a £2O-million
rise in private imports.
Export Prices
Primary-produce export re-
ceipts so far this season present
a cheerful picture, but prospects
must be viewed with some
caution.
With three-quarters of the
season’s wool-clip sold, the
average price is about 5.8 p.c.
down on the previous season’s
price. Latest sales have shown
some firming, however.
The normal seasonal increase
in supplies of butter on the
United Kingdom market has
been augmented by substantial
extra quantities of Maoriland
and Danish butter, diverted
there as a consequence of
American dumping in Con-
tinental countries. As a result the
price of Maoriland butter fell,
over three months, from the all-
time peak of 4045. a hundred-
weight to 3225. per hundred-
weight, lowest price since the
1951-52 season.
United Kingdom wholesale
meat-prices have also been
reduced by heavy supplies.
Britain is increasing its own pro-
duction, and the Argentine is
sending much more chilled beef.
The New Zealand Meat Export
Prices Committee has announced
a deficiency-payment of id. a
pound on chilled beef killed for
export.
Any price-falls will, of course,
be offset to some extent by the
increased volume of produce
which Maoriland has to sell.
Butter shipments, for instance,
are expected to exceed the 1952-
53 record of 163,000 tons.
Prime Minister Holland’s
announcement of a trade-
agreement, under which
Maoriland’s exports to Australia
(Continued on page 17)


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
A PROGRAMME of development, de-
scribed as the biggest in the history
of the co., is being undertaken by Sydney-
registered chain-store retailer Wool-
worths, Ltd.
Last term 17 new branches were
opened throughout Australia, which
brought the number of stores operated by
the co., its subsidiary and associated con-
cerns in Australia and New Zealand, to
just on 200 at the close of the term in
January, twenty more branches are in
the course of establishment, all of which
are expected to be trading by the end of
the year, and, in addition, a number of
other stores are being either re-located
or enlarged.
To provide finance, the parent com-
pany will offer to shareholders on the
register at May 15 an issue of 4,283,649
ss. ords. at par, in the proportion of one
new share for each four held. Applications
will close on October 1. Managerial staff
and employees with long service are also
to be offered 400,000 shares at a premium
of ss. a share. Together the issues to
shareholders and staff will bring in, in
capital and premiums, over £l* million.
It will be the largest issue of scrip made
to shareholders since the public became
interested in the co. in 1928, four years
after the first store was opened in the base-
ment of the Imperial Arcade in Sydney,
and follows nearly a decade of very
rapid growth during which £3,167,150
(including £685,656 of bonus scrip) was
added to the co.’s capital account. The
last issue was in September, 1954, when
£856,164 was raised at par, also on a
one-for-four basis.
Turnover is reported to have risen con-
siderably last term, the old stores con-
tributing to the improved sales as well
as the new branches. Self-service methods
of retailing are being experimented with
by the company, and to date three stores
are operating on these lines.
After writing-off £89,434 (£93,260 in
1955) to depreciation and the amortisation
of leases and providing an unchanged
£300,000 for taxation, net earnings
of the parent co. rose £111,720 to
£988,103, which doesn’t fully reflect the
earning-potential of the new stores:
Parent Co.
r Dividends *
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.c. serves.*
1950 .. 323,110 7500 14,000 230,278 1,282,304
Share premiums, £382,828 .. . . 1,665,132
1951 . . 359,882 7500 14,000 286,438 1,717,076
Reserves capitalised, £685,656 ..1,031,420
Added insurance reserve, £98,488 .. 1,129,908
12 p.c.
1952 .. 616,533 7600 14,000 411,298 1,213,645
Reserves drawn upon, £20,784 .. 1,192,861
1963 .. 454,915 7500 14,000 411,298 1,214,978
Reserves dirawn upon, £29,151 .. 1,185,827
1963 tax provided, £350,000 .. .. 835,827
15 p.c.
1954 .. 627,984 7500 14,000 514,122 928,189
From development reserve, £61,172 .. 867,017
1955 .. 876,383 7500 14,000 599,739 1,122,161
From development reserve, £112,576 1,009,585
1966 .. 988,103 7500 14,000 642,548 1,333,640
•After deducting goodwill ( £165,227).
On paid-up ordinary capital of
£4,283,649, after allocating the pref. div.,
profit was equivalent to 22.6 p.c., as
against 21.3 p.c. in 1954 and 17.7 p.c. in
1953. Further back, profit-figures are not
really comparable, because taxes were
charged against profits in the year the
assessment was received and not, as they
have been over the last three terms,
against earnings of the year of incoine.
In the consolidated accounts, which,
except for the New Zealand co., cover
the trading of the whole group, net profit
of £1,165,971, struck after providing
£592,084 (£579,394 in 1955) for taxation,
was £193,397 above the preceding term.
Dividends on £1,194,923 of pref.-capital
of subsidiaries, held by outsiders, must
be allowed for, however, before arriving
at the equity of Woolworth’s share-
holders.
During the term the co. spent £415,220
on furniture and fittings, added £273,150
to inventories and £595,957 to debtors
carried, including £590,272 extra advanced
to subsidiary cos., in which it increased
its shareholding (on the basis of cost or
valuation) by £213,980. Finance was
made available out of cash held (down
£770,050) and by the issue of a further
£500,000 in 6 p.c. registered unsecured
notes which are redeemable by 1964:
Parent Co.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £3,702,485 £4,558,649 £4,558,649
Reserves .. .. 1,093,413 1,287,388 1,498,867
Depreciation .. 619,525 690,600 745,139
Staff fund.. .. 48,000 48,000 48,000
Notes .. .. 600,000 1,100,000
Creditors, etc. .. 1,444,619 952,440 900,483
Tax provision .. 410,362 561,539 619,963
Final divs. .. 353,498 439,115 439,115
£7,671,902 £9,137,731 £9,910,216
Freeholds .. .. 10,092 13,814 19,305
Leaseholds .. 253,204 275,458 305,696
Plant .. .. 991,047 1,156,830 1,572,050
Shareholdings* .. 3,891,871 3,888,692 4,111,171
Stocks .. .. 1,787,247 1,935,221 2,208,371
Debtorsf .. .. 343,048 867,663 1,463,620
Cash .. .. 230,166 834,826 64,776
Goodwill .. .. 165,227 165,227 165,227
£7,671,902 £9,137,731 £9,910,216
* Subsidiary and associated cos., etc. t Includes
advances to subsidiaries —£235,808, 1954 ; £812,896,
1955 ; £1,403,168, 1956.
On June 30 last freehold properties were
revalued and written-up in the consoli-
dated accounts by £2,288,263. Of the
surplus, £1,288,263 was transferred to
development provision, the balance re-
maining to the credit of the asset-revalu-
ation reserve.
Coinciding with economic develop-
ments, a slip in the co.’s scrip
has been evident on ’Change just
recently. At around 19 s. the ss.
ords. would be worth 16s. 2d. on an
ex-rights basis, to return 4.6 p.c. on last
term’s 15 p.c. dividend. Theoretical value
of the rights is 11s. 2d.
Marrickville Holdings, Lid.
ESTABLISHED in 1908 as Marrickville
Margarine Pty., Ltd., this Sydney-
registered enterprise has developed an
extensive Australian business in table-
margarine and industrial cooking-margar-
ine, edible- and industrial-oils and nut-
products, etc. (marketed under the Eta
brand), and, through an associated com-
pany, has begun the manufacture and
distribution of nut-products in New
Zealand.
Incorporated in 1951, the Australian
holding-company took over the issued
£365,000 ordinary capital of Marrickville
Margarine in exchange for £821,250 of its
own ordinary scrip, and issued to the
A.M.P. Society 200,000 £1 4| p.c. cumu-
lative redeemable preference-shares in a
direct one-for-one barter for similar prefs.
held in the proprietary. Capital was
brought to its present level of £1,171,250
by a public issue of 150,000 ords., at 10s.
premium, in May 1951.
Rising earnings have resulted in a
much better return on this capital-figure
in recent years, producing ample cover
for ordinary dividends, which have been
gradually stepped up from 8 p.c. in 1951
to 15 p.c. last year. As a percentage of
ord. capital the profits shown in the fol-
lowing table are, after allowing for
preference dividends of £9500, 9.1 p.c.
1951, 12.8 p.c. 1952, 22.9 p.c. 1953, 24.1
p.c. 1954, and 25 6 p.c. 1955:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
r Dividends — N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. — serves, serves.*
4f p.c.
& £/ £* & £>
Share-premiums, £75,000 .. .. 533,625
Preliminary expenses, £11,194 .. 522,431
’51.. 98,380 9500 8 p.c. = 58,819 30,061 552,492
Profit sale shares, £1968 .. .. 554,460
’52..134,015 9500 10 p.c. = 97,125 27,390 581,850
’53..232,734 9600 12i „ ~121,406 101,828 683,678
’54..243,862 9500 13J „ ~131,119 103,243 786,921
’55..258,718 9500 15 „ ~145,688 103,530 890,451
* Subject to intangibles, £456,250 at 30/6/’55.
Last year’s net profit of £258,718
remained after provision of £99,904
(£86,504 in 1954) for depreciation and
£203,847 (£251,434) for taxation.
Balance-sheet figures indicate the pro-
portions of the co.’s development pro-
gramme which is not yet complete and
from which future trading results are
bound to benefit. Net additions to land,
buildings and plant cost £287,898,
£46,842 was added to shares in other com-
panies and £114,863 to stocks, which
appear at the lower of cost or
market-value at £1,070,747. Increased
bank-overdraft (up £367,290 to £473,231)
and retained profits (£103,530) covered
most of the outlay:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord 971,250 971,250 971,250
Reserves .. .. 683,678 786,921 890,451
Overdraft • .. 105,941 473,231
Creditors .. 381,815 402,490 417,548
Tax provision .. 248,266 270,872 225,509
Final divs. .. 72,844 72,844 72,844
£2,557,853 £2,810,318 £3,250,833
Land, buildings .. 445,777 619,365 794,280
Plant .. 271,899 385,550 498,533
Investments .. 33,505 33,505 80,347
Stock .. .. 969,817 955,884 1,070,747
Debtors .. .. 285,518 358,093 349,052
Cash .. .. 95,087 1,671 1,624
Intangibles .. 456,250 456,250 466,205
£2,557,853 £2,810,318 £3,250,833
During the year* a margarine-factory
[operated by a new subsidiary, Marrick-
ville Margarine (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., whose
paid capital of £300,000 is held by the
parent] was completed, and a factory-
site bought at Sunshine, Victoria, where
later it is intended to house the expanding
activities in that State. Increased
business has also made necessary addi-
tions to the newly erected Nut Foods
Pty., Ltd., factory at Marrickville. In
New Zealand, the equipping of Eta
Foods, Ltd., in which a half-interest is
hefd, is reported to be complete.
Working-capital for the business,
drawn on rather heavily in 1955 for
investment in fixed assets, was replenished
from an issue in November last of
£400,000 registered unsecured 6| p.c.
notes. The issue matures in December,
1960.
At 585., returning 5.2 p.c., the ord.
shares are down 9s. on this year’s “high.”
Net tangible cover for the scrip is
28s. lid.
Street’s Ice Cream, Ltd.
CURRENT prosperity of the ice-cream
industry must provoke the envy of
soft-drink manufacturers and their share-
holders. Perhaps the ice-cream business
has been able to avoid the overcrowding
so apparent among drink-companies by
its method of retailing through single-
brand shops, thereby tending to dis-
courage prospective manufacturers from
setting-up in the face of competition from
established companies.
The public first gained an interest in
Street’s in 1952, although the history of
the business dates back to 1920, when its
founder, Edwin Street, began making ice-
cream at Corrimal on the South Coast of
New South Wales. A company was
formed in 1934, and, later, as business
grew, a depot was opened in Sydney. In
1947 a large factory was built at Turrella,
where the chief manufacturing and dis-
tributing activities are now centred. The
co. operates its own milk-processing plant
at Moruya, and it also owns the Wollon-.
gong Ice Works.
In 1950 the company joined interests
with Lynam’s Ice Cream Pty., Ltd., which
had been established 15 years before,
and whose factory at Parramatta, com-
pleted last year, supplies the Western
Suburbs and, from its Penrith depot, the
growing districts west to the Blue Moun-
tains.-
Considerable expansion has been
undertaken, financed almost entirely out
of profits, and the co. has increased its
share of the market. As a proportion of
total ice-cream production in N.S.W.,
Street’s output last year approached a
third, as against a little under a quarter
in 1951.
After providing £33,426 (up £9332) for
depreciation, £71,900 (up £700) for taxa-
tion, and making a first appropriation of
£3OOO for long-service leave, consolidated
net profit rose £8766 to £129,095:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. r~ —Dividend—— N serves, serves.*
£ £> £ £
1952.. 28,402 5 p.c. = 21,766 6,636 147,558
1953.. 86,274 11 „ „ 47,887 38,387 185,945
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Add subsidiary reserves, £262 .. 186,207
Tax overprovided £17,639 .. .. 203,846
1954. .120,329 12 p.c. = 52,239 68,090 271,936
To staff fund, £3OOO 268,936
1955. .129,095 13 p.c. = 56,593 72,502 341,438
* Subject to intangibles, £74,263 at 30/6/’55.
(A second subsidiary, Ice-Cream Mes-
sengers Pty., Ltd., was acquired in 1954.)
On paid capital of £435,330 profit earned
in 1955 was 29.7 p.c. as against 27.6 p.c.
in 1954, 19.8 p.c. in 1953 and 6.5 p.c. in
1952. The growth of these figures owes
much to the co.’s policy of financing
new plant from earnings. An investiga-
tion of all sections of the business is also
reported to have achieved substantial
savings last term in improved efficiency.
After paying 13 p.c. (up one point) on
capital, £72,502 was retained out of earn-
ings last year, swelling reserves to
£341,438, which are subject to £74,263
of intangibles.
Plans for new depots and plant are
under consideration, but the co. intends
first to consolidate and make fully-pro-
ductive work done last year.
During the term expenditure on fixed
assets, including the new Parramatta fac-
tory and a depot at Brookvale, cost
£127,170 net, £16,022 was added to
stocks, and £6238 to debtors, met largely
out of cash (down £46,111) and reten-
tions. Only £27,863 extra was borrowed
from outside the business:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. . . £435,330 £435,330 £435,330
Reserves .. .. 185,945 271,936 341,488
Creditors .. .. 47,577 46,810 74,673
Tax provision .. .. 82,799 71,200 73,0:7
Staff fund .. . •
Final divs. . • .. 26,120 80,473 30,473
£777,771 £855,749 £957,991
Freehold .. .. 217,017 256,607 308,194
Plant, etc 314,956 369,136 444,719
Investments .. .. 2,501
Stock 57,749 60,319 76,341
Debtors, etc. .. .. 35,566 33,965 40,203
Cash 74,342 60,382 14,271
Intangibles .. .. 75,640 75,340 74,263
£777,771 £855,749 £957,991
At June 30 last net asset-backing for the
co.’s scrip rose 2s. lOd. on the previous
year to 30s. 9d. Pricing the £1 stock at
475. to return 5.5 p.c., the market plainly
awaits further advances in the dividend-
rate, which may become more liberal on
completion of the projected investment
in working-assets. Interim dividend for
the current term is steady at 6 p.c. Price
of the stock in the May, 1952, placement
was 225. 6d.
Australian Blue Metal, Ltd.
n OAD, rail and most other construc-
tional works require blue-metal (in
concrete work it is estimated that four
tons of metal are needed for every ton of
cement), , and this company is in the
business of quarrying and crushing the
stone in a big way, operating in New
South Wales and Western Australia.
Since the current term opened a subsi-
diary has been acquired holding valuable
Foden truck and Gardner diesel-engine
agencies.
Following the sale by shareholders in
1952 of 125,000 £1 shares, at 255. each,
trading in the scrip on Sydney ’Change,
opened at 265. 6d. Last week the market-
price stood at around 375. 6d., and
in the meantime shareholders have had
a one-for-four issue at par, and, on an
average, dividends of 10.8 p.c. out of
earnings which have been at the rate of
just under 23 p.c. a year on issued capital.
Last term consolidated net profit of the
parent and subsidiary, National Con-
tractors Pty., Ltd., rose £38,551 to
£146,532 (equal to 29.3 p.c. on paid
capital, as against 21.5 p.c. in 1954) after
writing off depreciation of £70,000
(£55,000 in 1954) and providing £89,500
(£64,300) for taxation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. serves: serves.*
1953 .. 90,095 10 p.c.n50,000 40,095 93,595
1954 .. 107,981 10 ~,,60,000 67,981 151,576
1955 . . 146,532 „ „ 62,500 84,032 235,608
* Subject to intangibles, £36,072 at 30/6/’55.
Sales were reported to have again in-
creased during the term, and general
contracting and other activities, including
works in South Australia and at Broken
Hill, where the co. is the sole quarryman,
were also extended. New plant, including
one of the world’s biggest roller-bearing
rock-crushers, is to be installed this year
at the co.’s quarry at Gosnells, near
Perth. To provide the finance necessary
for this project and other developments,
£150,000 of new capital was raised in
November, at par. The dividend, up 2\
p.c., to \2\ p.c., is still on a.pretty con-
servative basis in relation to earnings,
the intention being to assist growth as
far as possible from retained profits.
Acquisition of the new subsidiary,
Diesel Motors Pty., Ltd., seems to have
been effected on a very reasonable basis,
and the co. should prove to be most pro-
fitable. Market-value of the 100,000
Australian Blue Metal shares issued
approximately equalled the par-value of
the capital and accumulated profits of
Diesel Motors. Assets were taken over at
their written-down book-values at June
30, and no value was given to either good-
will or the, agencies held by the co. On
the £lOO,OOO of capital involved profit
earned by the co. in 1955 was equal to a
return of just on 40 p.c.
The truck- and engine-agency business
was established in West Australia 18
years ago by the O’Neill family, the same
founders of Australian Blue Metal, who
used Foden trucks extensively in their
quarrying activities in the West. After
World War II Foden appointed the co.
its representatives for the whole of Aus-
tralia. In W.A. the co. is also agent for
Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Mercedes-Benz and
Renault cars. New showrooms have been
built in Perth, and showroom and work-
shops are under construction in Sydney,
while premises are also to be erected soon
in Adelaide.
• The balance-sheet shows the position at
June 30, before the acquisition of Diesel
Motors or the new share-issue:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Reserves .. 93,595 151,576 235,608
Overdraft .. 98,312 77,318
Creditors .. 92,734 82,600 122,982
Tax provision .. 60,672 64,305 90,053
Dividends . • 50,000 50,000 62,500
£797,001 £946,793 £1,088,461
Freehold, etc... 30,630 33,199 42,479
Plant, etc. .. 567,385 594,940 718,893
Stock .. .. 46,539 48,165 52,043
Debtors .. 101,521 233,014 238,503
Cash .. 12,684 233 471
Intangibles .. 38,242 37,242 36,072
£797,001 £946,793 £1,088,461
Chief movements were in the rise in free-
hold land and buildings (up £9280) and
plant, vehicles, etc. (up £123,953) includ-
ing an amount of £63,880 for plant in
transit, representing the new Swedish
rock-crusher. Debt due to trade-creditors
was £40,382 higher, but £20,994 was
worked off the overdraft so the £84,032
retained profits were usefully employed.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Harks.— Advt,
ELECTRIC , LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
36in.
m imm
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Qear.
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• Neyr Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modern Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 60 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
110522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
# # #
toirnm o one-man chain saw needs pleat*
a
yi
cs
o'-"
&
£
/i
I
y" r ' p.ffl
-
I* 1 r
\ -:--r Sr*.
' '
m
1 One
iSSjss
gives you all the power you need
to fell trees up to 3 ft. 3 ins. diameter
A chain saw Is something you want to be able to cany about with
you |ust like an axe. Therefore, a chain saw must be light. And
take a bushman's word for it, Mobileo Is light ... but when yov
get to the tree you must have power, and power to spare. That's
Mobileo power and power to spare. A genuine, surging 5 b.h.p.
to cut deep into tough Australian hardwood with
steady, stye-fire efficiency.
Look at this little beauty; light enough for a light*
weight to carry about ... as sturdy as the timber
in which it works. You've got if all in Mobilco . ..
quick-action clutch, blade turns for felling or scarfing
position, engine and carburettor always remain in
the same position; rubber-covered forearm grip,
rjltl
iW
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mobilco
chain saw.
Name -— T , ,
Addrasa. T -, ,
fingertip chain oiler; fitted timber case with good quality
tools and fuel can; and a THREE MONTHS GUARANTEE.
Don't let a day pass until you know the full "Mobilco
Story'. Send in the coupon today. TERMS AVAILABLE
. . . You can buy the Mobilco for £7B/-/- deposit (Cash
Price, £196/10/-). That's mighty good value for a hard-
working, timesaving Mobilco Chain Saw.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER RD. f AUBURN - PHONES: YX 1244-1245
w^?«^ F fI C . E . : w. 4 rl?'t 1 „ 6 . WH,TEHORSE ROAD / MITCHAM, VIC.
Vi*..] 081 & LINES)-BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
are expected to increase by £4.2
million, or 66 p.c., within the
next two years, has been wel-
comed. At present imports from
Australia exceed exports by five
to one; it is hoped that the ratio
will be reduced to three-and-a-
half to one in two years’ time.
The greatest scope for improve-
ment is offeredby timber, wood-
products and fish. The increase
in the value of timber exports is
expected to be £1.6 million this
year, rising to £2.4 million next
year. Fish exports may be in-
creased by up to £240,000 and
other exports by £BOO,OOO this
year. The output of Maoriland’s
huge new pulp-and-paper in-
dustry will ultimately, of course,
be of major importance.
Some concern about the stipu-
lation that the arrangement is
to be self-balanced by higher
imports from Australia was ex-
pressed by the New Zealand
Manufacturers’ Federation, but
Mr. Holland has given an
assurance that the extra imports
will be items which Maoriland
has to import in any case, in-
cluding plant and heavy
machinery essential to the
Dominion’s development.
Q’land National Pastoral Co.
IMPROVED seasonal condi-
tions over most parts of the
State and maintenance of satis-
factory prices for livestock were
reflected in a higher net profit for
Queensland National Pastoral,
whose year ended on December
31 last.
The leaseholds of this 41-year-
old cattle- and sheep-run owner
total some 9200 square miles in
the far-west of the State and
across the border in the Northern
Territory. On the edst coast, in
the Gladstone, Nanango and Kil-
roy districts, it owns about
45,000 acres of freehold property.
After making provision for
taxation (not disclosed), but
before allowing for depreciation
on plant, leaseholds, improve-
ments, etc., profit was struck
at £104,241, an increase on the
1954 term of £10,225:
N Writ- Re-
Dec., Prft Pref. Ord. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
12 p.q, 12 p.c.
’50.. 98,110 30,000 9,000 15,050 110,940
Unexplained addition, £5216.. 116,155
’51..103,674 30,000 9,000 18,651 162,178
Unexplained addition, £2547.. 164,725
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
’52.. 54,642 25,000 7,500 18,565 168,302
Unexplained addition, £4668.. 172,970
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
’53..109,366 37,500 11,250 22,384 211,202
’54.. 94,016 37,500 11,250 26,868 229,600
17i p.c. 17 j p.c.
'55..104,241 43,750 13,125 28,617 248,349
As a percentage of preference
and ordinary capital, earnings
(net of depreciation) were equal
to 23.3 p.c. last year, compared
with 20.6 p.c. in 1954, 26.7 p.c.
1953, 11.1 p.c. 1952, 26.1 p.c.
1951 and 25.5 p.c. in 1950. The
dividend on each class of capital
was lifted 2\ p.c. last term, to
11? p.c., of which lli p.c. was
bonus.
The generally favorable condi-
tions of the last 10 years or so
have allowed the co. to sub-
stantially strengthen its reserves;
since 1944 a deficit of £3073 has
been turned into an accumulated
earned surplus of £248,349, and
dividends averaging 10.5 p.c.
have been paid.
The record has not always
been as attractive. Between 1920
and 1941, as the result of declin-
ing overseas markets, drought,
falling prices and rising costs,
ordinary shareholders received
no dividends, and in 1932
£525,000 of their capital (equal
to 17s. 6d. a share) was written-
off to cover accumulated losses.
In 1938, in a further attempt to
get the business on to a dividend-
paying basis, pref. shareholders
agreed to forgo £192,500 of
dividend-arrears and to reduce
the rate from a fixed cumulative
7 p.c. to' a cumulative 6 p.c.,
participating with the ordinary
shares in any distribution above
that rate.
Following recent heavy rains
in the State, pastures are reported
to be in good shape and another
favorable year appears assured.
The marketing position abroad,
however, is not so bright. Around
last October prices for Australian
meat in the United Kingdom
begfjn to weaken, and so far there
is no indication that the down-
ward trend is levelling-off. The
Meat Board, which last year paid
out in bounties to exporters
about £650,000 more than it
received from the British Gov-
ernment under the terms of the
U.K.-Australia meat-agreement,
has not said what payments are
likely to be made to the industry
this year. The agreement, which
was negotiated in October, 1954,
after 14 years of bulk-buying by
the U.K. Government, is for a
15-year term, and provides for
a guaranteed average level of
prices for each grade of beef.
If average open-market realisa-
tions fall below guaranteed
levels, the U.K. will, at the end
of the year, make a deficiency-
payment covering the difference
to the Australian Government.
The shearers’ strike has held
up wool-sales in Brisbane, but
prices realised for fine types of
wool early in the year showed
a firm tendency.
During the past term the co.
spent a net £15,586 on leaseholds
and improvements and finished
the year with an extra £17,275 in
stores. Cash and Government
bonds at December 31 amounted
to £525,980, down £7702:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Preference £250,000 £250,000
Ordinary .. 75,000 75,000
Reserves .. . . 229,600 248,349
Creditors, etc.* .. 402,713 409,645
Dividends .. .. 48,750 56,875
£1,006,063 £1,039,869
Freehold land .. 27,903 27,903
Plant, fittings .. 72,335 74,972
Leases .. .. 181,585 197,171
Livestock .. 156,230 162,214
Stores, etc. .. 33,776 61,051
Debtors .. .. 552 578
Cash, bonds, etc... 533,682 625,980
£1,006,063 £1,039,869
* Includes provision for taxation and
contingencies.
Last sale of the co.’s 2s. 6d. ord.
shares was made at 6s. (ss. 3d.
a year ago), giving a return on
the 17? p.c. dividend of 7.2 p.c.
Since then buyers have offered
ss. without attracting a seller.
Net asset cover for the ords. is
10s. 9d.
“Papinaipi”
T>APUAN Apinaipi Petroleum
-* 1 - Co., Ltd., at June 30, 1955,
had only £61,565 of cash and
bonds left in the till, according to
a balance-sheet presented nearly
nine months after the closing of
the books, and which will be
placed before shareholders at the
meeting on April 9.
This amount seems hardly
enough for a reconnaissance-
survey, and is small to meet even
the preliminaries to any serious
development of the co.’s 8600-
square-mile concession, which
covers most of the structure now
known as the Aure Trough.
Already several million pounds
have been expended by Austra-
lasian Petroleum in the geo-
logical and geophysical examina-
tion of the area underlain by this
stratigraphic “low” and in
attempting to drill through the
treacherous “heaving shale,”
which constitutes the upper part
of the geological column and
has a thickness of the order of
10,000 ft.
Data resulting from this ex-
penditure caused Australasian
Petroleum to abandon all opera-
tions in the Aure Trough area
and to relinquish its permits
there.
Information made public } by
Australasian Petroleum indicates
that the drilling of a single well,
in the Aure Trough, of sufficient
depth to offer any hope of com-
mercial oil, would call for an
expenditure, of- at least £1
million.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY GWENDOLINE SMITH late of Aber-
deen in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES TREVOR SMITH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4142 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the twenty-ninth day
of May 1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. M-URPHY t
MOLONEY, Solicitors, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO STANISLAWA MACH (address unknown) for-
merly of 46 Ercildowne Street Caulfield Melbourne
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that your husband BOG-
DAN JAN MACH has commenced proceedings against
you in the Supreme Court of Western Australia for
divorce on the following grounds: (1) Desertion for
a continuous period of three years or more; (2)
Your wilful refusal to consummate the marriage
If you desire to defend such proceedings you must
file your Defence in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court Perth within forty clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will pronounce judg-
ment and make Orders against you in your absence.
Dated this 28th day of March, 1956.—G. J-
BOYLSON, Registrar. PARKER BYASS & SCHLAM,
15 Howard Street, Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The fashion-scene at the autumn meet-
ing at Randwick presented something
fresh this year, after a long period of
dull, imitative dressing. Although only
the more daring spirits attempted the
“heavy-hatted” look, there were sufficient
numbers of the slim, semi-fitted dresses
and the middy-suits to indicate that the
new lines have definitely been accepted.
Of course there were many beautiful
“classical” suits to be seen. Mrs. Lennox
Bode, in black, and Mrs. Graham Body,
in caramel, were among those who
favored this line.
Many of the hats were curvettes or
cloche-type, but the latest flower-pots,
platters, pudding-basins and cake-tins
were also to be seen. How domesticated
can a hat get? Mrs. Ronald Nott
(Melbourne) wore the hat of all hats,
a white, furry, squared-off platter trimmed
with a black-velvet bow across (he front
and worn well over the forehead. Mrs.
Michael Read’s flower-pot in wine-color
sat straight up on her head. Mrs. Chip
Hill and Mrs. Bill Murrell wore the up-
turned pudding - basin types, Mrs.
Murrell’s in black velvet swathed with
apricot. All these hats looked very, very
smart. Indeed, the lesson of the meet-
ing seemed to be that it is not wise to
wear such hats at all unless one is sure of
looking very, very smart.
☆ ☆ ☆
Although the handcrafts at the Easter
Show this year suffered a little by being
housed in the Horticultural Pavilion, the
exhibits were, as always, most interesting,
especially to women.
Mrs. Chard’s iced-cake —in the shape
of a grand-piano at which a Victorian
lady is seated —was outstanding, even the
finely-patterned carpet, as delicate as
petit-point, qualifying it for the first-
prize it won.
Other imaginative exhibits were the
basket of four baby-dolls representing
quads, and the prizewinning large doll
dressed in peasant costume by Mrs. Fryer.
Mrs. Dwyer again won numerous
prizes with her exquisite embroidery, and
in the underclothing section Miss Yee’s
fine handwork was marvellous to behold.
Some of ffie fancywork, 'however, was
very old-fashioned in design (one apron
Went back to the ’twenties for inspira-
tion), and the knitting was unimaginative,
the fineness of the texture by no means
compensating for the heavy-looking
designs and the bad colors.
The fruit-cakes and the scones were
not very successful. Some blamed the
weather for this ; others, the atom-bomb
(a good excuse to remember next time
your cake sinks in the middle). The judge
said that many of the best cooks do not
enter for the Easter Show because of shy-
ness or modesty. As it is, the exhibits do
serve the purpose of making the onlookers
feel that perhaps they are better cooks
than they thought they were. However,
there was one plate of small iced-cakes
that was really a jvork of art.
A remarkable exhibit in the tapestry-
section was a copy of the Mona Lisa,
in which the smile was as enigmatic as
ever. Another interesting tapestry
showed a two-story dwelling with small
stables beside it, and at the door of the
smaller building a woman with a baby.
The picture told its story by the tiny halo
shown round the head of the woman.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney has recently had the pleasure
of the company of Westralian Henrietta
Drake-Brockman, who represented Pro-
fessor Fry at the meeting of the Aus-
tralian Committee for Cultural Freedom,
and who also attended meetings of the
Fellowship -of Australian Writers here
before speeding on to Canberra to speak
to the Writers’ Federation there. Mrs.
Drake-Brockman also delivered to Angus
and Robertson the manuscript of her
novel The Wicked and ihe Fair, which
A. and R. hope to publish by the end
of the year. Much research into old
Dutch documents preceded the writing
of this novel, which is about the mutiny
on Pelsart’s ship the Batavia. While in
Sydney Mrs. Drake-Brockman stayed
with her daughter, Mrs. John Moore, at
East Lindfield.
*☆ ☆ _
The Town and Country Ball was
exceptionally popular this year, prac-
tically filling-out Prince’s to the doors
and raising a very tidy sum for the
Smith Family. The decor at that
restaurant has been most enchanting for
the past fortnight, great white “flying-
saucers” apparently floating across the
ceiling against a background of silvered
ferns, giving it a Walt Disney-fairyland
look.
President Mrs. Clinton Ayers looked
charming in black organza splashed with
bouquets of hand-painted flowers.
Country visitors included the Graham
Bodys (Inverell) and the John Oatleys
(Oberon); among city representatives
were Mr. and Mrs. John Austin, Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Parsons, jnr., Mr. and
Mrs. W. MacPhillamy, Mr. and Mrs.
J. D. Hemphill, Mrs. D. M. Osborne and
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Sinclair (who enter-
tained a large party).
A highlight of the evening was the
ballroom-dancing competition, in the
finals of which, by the way, the Christie
family was well represented, Mr. and
Mrs. W. L. Christie competing (among
others) with son Bill, who was dancing
with Judy Allen. Bill jnr.’s party
included Caroline Nihill, Alison and
Chris Ward and Tony Cox.
Madame Roberto Regala, wife of the
Ambassador for the Philippines, has been
notable in Sydney for the six years since
her husband’s first appointment here as
Consul-General. A lawyer by profession
(she is fourth vice-president of the Inter-
national Federation of Women Lawyers),
Madame Regala is an accomplished
speaker and very much in demand by
women’s organisations for her vivid and
enlightened talks on matters pertaining
to women’s interests. In social gatherings
she is always outstanding in her
national dress, with its butterfly-sleeves,
which she imports from the Philippines.
Sydney will miss her when she moves
with her husband and family to
Canberra. Photo by Dayne.
The audience at Benno Moiseiwitsch’s
first concert on Saturday gave him a par-
ticularly warm and enthusiastic reception,
partly because of the poetic charm of his
music and partly because, after seven
visits to Australia over a period of more
than 30 years, he has become an old and
loved friend. This time he is accompanied
by his 20-year-old son, who, during the
short tour here, will visit Melbourne and
Adelaide with his father before leaving
for New Zealand.
» ☆ ☆
Ray Lawler’s “Summer of the
17th Doll,” with its gusty dialogue,
rich humor and final emotional impact,
came back to the Elizabethan Theatre
last week—a second season coming so
fast on the heels of its first appearance
must be a record for an Australian play.
There is talk, too, of its being screened
and put on TV. The start of the second
season was greeted by a large audience,
among whom a fair sprinkling of women
wore strapless dresses and ballerinas, the
better, no doubt, to withstand the still-
high temperature of this summer of an
autumn.
☆ ☆ ☆
Poodles are popular these days.
Scarcely a mannequin-parade goes by
without one of them making an appear-
ance. Last week two miniature types,
one black, one white, modelled doggy
rain-jackets in the parade of Plastalon
products. The featured wear for human-
beings was coats with pleated skirts
(guaranteed not to come out when wet)
and push-up sleeves. The fashion-line
must obviously be studied closely by
Sydneyites: it may in future be the only
wear.
MELBOURNE
There was a large attendance at the
Lord Mayor’s reception given to farewell
Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins, Lady
Collins and their daughter Gillian: Sir
John is the new High Commissioner to
New Zealand. The Lady Mayoress (Lady
Selleck) wore a frock of dove-grey
guipure-lace with a wide-brimmed black
hat. Lady Collins, who was presented
with a spray of gardenias, wore a slim
black frock and a shallow cloche of aqua-
blue velvet.
On the official dais were Mr. Harold
Holt (representing the Prime Minister)
and Mrs. Holt (she wearing a jacket-suit
in cherry-red blossom-pattern on a deep-
royal-blue-silk background and a cherry-
red velour bandeau), Lieut.-General Sir
Sidney Rowell and Lady Rowell, and Sir
Samuel and Lady Burston.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s frock and match-
ing full-length coat were of white silk-
surah spotted in black, worn with a small
white hat. Senator Ivy Wedgwood offset
her navy ensemble with a deep-cerise
cloche. Other friends who came to wish
the popular naval man and his family
good-luck included Chief Secretary
Arthur Rylah and Mrs. Rylah, Brigadier
and Mrs. R. Irving, Archbishop and Mrs.
J. J. Booth, Mr. Justice Sholl and Mrs.
Sholl, Mr. Justice R. Monahan and Mrs.
Monahan, Dr. and Mrs. K. McLean, and
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Robinson.
☆ ☆ ☆
The drawing-room of Menzies Hotel
was setting for the Stell-Ricks parade of
coats and skirts; in these, the best over-
seas trends have been modified for Aus-
tralian conditions. There was a line; to
suit every figure and age: the tunic-look
for the tall and slender, the “waisted”
French-look for the not-so-tall, the loose-
look for the fuller figure. Colors included
a brilliant yellow and muted shades such
as wild-rice, oyster, cognac and grey.
An English wild-rice tweed backed with
mohair was used for an elegant coat, its
wide-lapelled collar made of the reverse-
side of the material, which was also used
to face the cuffs.’ One suit was made of a
tweed overlaid with angora, alpaca and
cashmere. In brilliant yellow, a self-
patterned tweed coat had the long line
emphasised by a fine white inlay, which
was used in the lapels and then continued
down to finish at the hemline.
A very striking coat was in geranium-
red self-patterned tweed; double-
breasted, it had low-set slanting pockets
finished with deep tabs. A black mohair
coat showed a lining of scarlet silk, and
there were twisted-scrolls on the wide-
lapelled collar and deep cuffs. For more
casual wear, a similar coat was made in
oyster-white mohair. A coat in pale-
beige pure-cashmere had a luxurious long
collar in rare otter. The tiny flat-crowned
hat to go with it, and made of the same
fur, was a winner. All the hats were by
William Beale.
4 # #
Dorothy Josephine Coates was a lovely
Easter bride when she married Kenneth
George Pizzey at St. John’s, Toorak.
Youngest daughter of Sir Albert
and Lady Coates, of Toorak, Dorothy
chose a white chiffon gown draped
on Grecian lines. The bodice
featured a portrait-neckline, and the skirt
finished in a long, graceful train. Her
veil, of Carrickmacross lace, was caught
with a half-circle of tuberoses and she
carried a trail of gardenias and tuberoses.
The bride’s sister, Mrs. Peter Roberts,
was matron-of-honor and Patricia Gray
bridesmaid. Their frocks, of smoke-grey
chiffon over pink organza, were replicas
of. the bride’s gown, but of ballerina-
length, and they wore little grey-and-
pink feather-caps and carried pale-pink
rosebuds. The bridegroom is the only son
of Mr. and Mrs. Claude Pizzey, of Heidel-
berg. Dr. lan Buckley was best man and
Selwyn Pearson groomsman.
Reception was at the home of the bride’s
parents. Lady Coates wore a frock of
anthracite-grey silk-taffeta and a small
French hat of beaded mauve faille. Mrs.
Pizzey’s ensemble was in blue-grey
tonings.
☆ ☆ ☆
Ruth Farren Price, who was one of the
bridesmaids at the wedding of Mrs. Peter
Henderson (formerly Heather Menzies),
has just announced her engagement. Her
fiance is Ross Nye, younger son of Dr.
and Mrs. L. J. Jarvis Nye, of Hamilton,
Brisbane. Ruth, who is the elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Farren Price, of
this city’s Canterbury, graduated from the
University Conservatorium as a pianist.
☆ ☆ ☆
To celebrate the 21st birthday of their
law-student son Peter, Mr. and Mrs.
James Bowen Pain gave a dance at the
Royal Empire Society’s rooms in Queen’s-
road. The hostess’s classical gown of
fine white linen had a high Empire-
bodice.
Among the young dancers were Mar-
garet Bradley, who allied a white guipure-
lace bodice with a full white-tulle skirt;
Marion Gengoult Smith, the full skirt of
whose frock of cream lace was threaded
with pastel-blue satin ribbon ; and Louise
Hudspeth, in pale-pink organdie pat-
terned in large white roses.
Since her return from overseas Nanette
Nutt has taken a leading part in Union
Theatre activities, both with the reper-
tory company and the student-theatre.
A graduate in speech-therapy from the
University Conservatorium, she works at
Royal Melbourne Hospital. In her spare
time she is rehearsing for the Australian
premiere of Anouilh’s “Time Remem-
bered," which the Marlowe Society will
produce at the Union Theatre from
April 11 to 14. Photo by Helmut Newton.
Noted at the premiere of “The Boy
friend” at Her Majesty’s: the elegance
of Lady Knox’s silver-grey brocades ;
Mrs. S. Aarons’s pretty frock of black
Chantilly-lace; Mrs. John Carrodus’s
sequin-scattered pink-and-grey taffetas;
Mrs. Frank Christie’s short bouffant
frock of black silk-organza; Mrs. John
Mollard’s white chiffon spotted in grey
and highlighted with a rose-pink silk
cummerbund and sash-ends ; and Lady
McConnan’s black laces.
☆ ☆ ft
Cr. Bernard Evans and Mrs. Evans
entertained at a cocktail-party in their
Toorak home when new Agent-General
for Victoria Mr. W. W. Leggatt and his
wife were guests-of-honor prior to their
departure for London. Hydrangeas,
zinnias, dahlias and pink lilies were
arranged in the reception-room, and
assisting their parents were Mrs. Louis
Sallman and Margot Evans, and daughter-
in-law Mrs. Ronald Evans. Among the
guests were Sir Frank and Lady Beaure-
paire, Sir Harold and Lady Gengoult
Smith, Minister for Transport A. G.
Warner and Mrs. Warner, Mr. Aubrey
McKenzie, Sir John Allison, and Mr.
and Mrs. John Mollard.


GUARD
G&&h/
a/
PROTECTA L
flfguiOwM^
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for lull details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE;
Perth *
W. c. Penfold St Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd,
• Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co* (Amt.)
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALICE MYRTLE ANDREWS late of
Paddington.—T AKE NOTICE that
GEORGE HENRY ANDREWS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4759 of 1955
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 11th June 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
WM. PARKER SOJI & CO.. Solicitors, of
77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANK ALCORN late of 6 New
Street Windsor.—TAKE NOTICE that
FREDA JOSEPHINE ALCORN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3435 of 1955
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899-1954 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 25th day of May 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. VINCENT J.
BRADY DONALD & CO., Solicitors, 60
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME CdURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE JAMES FENWICK late of
169 Coglin Street Brompton in the State
of South Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that
HILDA MARY FENWICK has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1663 of 1954 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Eighth day of June 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition -without charge from
COLEMAN & GREIG, Solicitors, 16
George Street, Parramatta, or their
Agents, HUGHESDON & DAVIS, Soli-
citors, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney, in
the State of New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
optiA w&mM w-
INTERNATIONAL, NATIONAL OR LOCAL
Tttt
■'///'/.
COMM®®
wmmm
S3sL*°rk
uCO
ism
ca
S^NILA
Wmmt///////fr
■////■:
K£*gkon£
OV
»otf 9
1
y/.'/l:
mmm
m
/di m!l BY THIS BANK'S
EFFICIENT/HELPFUL SERVICE
Service to its customers and the wisdom of long experience
are traditions with this Bank, which is owned and staffed by
Australians. The Bank's many service departments are
available to offer advice and help to those who seek it.
At Head Office, or at our branch nearest to you, our
officers will be glad to discuss how the Bank, with its modern
facilities and services, can help you.
THE COM M ERCI At BAH KING COMPANY
OFSYDHEYIIMITEO A
wmmpa * EsrAeMsßeo is 34
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Tapestries and Swaggies
The N. S. Wales National
Gallery is in such a state of
splendor at the moment with the
contemporary French tapestries
flying in all directions like
stupendous peacocks that it is
hardly possible, so dazzled are
the eyes, even to see the quiet
exhibition of Frederick Mc-
Cubbin’s life-work in the one
court left unoccupied by this
glittering display.
Still, art is art; and McCubbin
was a good artist.
His reputation will always rest
upon the large, dreamy subject-
pictures such as “The Lost
Child” (so often reproduced),
“Down on His Luck,” “Bush
Burial,” “On the Wallaby
Track” and so on ; and rightly
so, too, for if perhaps one likes
him best in the small canvases
such as “Genoa” and even
the minute cigarbox-lid “Petit
Dejeuner,” where his smooth
command of oil-paint was con-
centrated in its full solid strength,
it was in the big scenes that he
made his distinctive impact. ,
It seems of little importance
that the mood of these pictures
—the forlorn swaggie, the lost
child so neat and trim in her
Sunday-best, the long-suffering
wife with the baby across her
knee in “On the Wallaby Track”
—is the familiar Victorian
pathos which we can find .also
in pre-Raphaelite art and in the
novels of Dickens. Nor does it
matter that McCubbin’s bush,
though much nearer what we
have come (since Streeton) to re-
gard as the real Australia than
that of Conrad Martens and his
predecessors, is seldom, in its
soft, shadowy depths, wholly
convincing as landscape. Both
these elements,,on the contrary,
have the charm of a bygone
period ; and the charm of gentle-
ness.
It is much more important that
the scenes are admirably and
sincerely painted—how excellent,
for example, is the figure of the
younger man in “Bush Burial”
—whereas in most contemporary
subject-pictures (Sidney Nolan’s,
if not Drysdale’s) the tendency
is to dash-down the figures and
landscapes in a kind of scene-
painter’s shorthand. McCub-
bin’s patient sincerity gives his
work something of the timeless
quality of minor epics.
On the whole, in its pathos,
its quietness, its solid though
limited craftsmanship (McCub-
bin was hardly in the class of
Tom Roberts, Streeton or
Gruner) and its sense of the
epic of the bush, McCubbin’s
art was almost exactly the
equivalent of the ballads of
Henry Lawson: and while this
country cherishes the one it will
assuredly cherish the other.
One should exempt from the
general criticism of sentimental
unreality the robust canvas
“Northwind”; which, beautifully
effective in its solid simplicity
and with no excess of pathos in
the studies of the woman and
child struggling in the cart
against the fierce weather, is a
masterpiece of hot Australian
landscape to rank in the com-
pany of “The Breakaway” and
“Fire’s On,”
As for the tapestries,
dominated by Lurcat’s magnifi-
cent conception of the universe
as a gigantic sunflower, little
more need be said of them
except that they are superb pieces
of design, color and craftsman-
ship.
A few dull abstracts, coarse
and angular, are swallowed in
the general sumptuousness :
where, shining out with special
force and grace, are such pieces
as (Lurcat again) “Still Life and
Fountain,” full of birds and
butterflies and spotted like a
leopard with sunlight; Perrot’s
“La Sologne,” with more birds
and foliage, keyed-up to the vivid
yellow of a canary; Pothier’s
“Black Tapestry,” a quieter and
more intricate design, though far
from “black”; Lucien Coutaud’s
macabre “Girl Sleeping,”
strangely much more sinister
with its thorns, spikes and dis-
embodied heads than are the
usual surrealist paintings which
toss about these same hackneyed
symbols ; Louis-Marie Jullien’s
rich if rococo “The Well of
Truth,” where dragonlike masks
float in a world of sombre
greens and reds ; and Fumeron’s
charming green fish-shop.
Stage and Music
Moiseiwitsch
Benno Moiseiwitsch, in his
seventh tour of Australia and
with 45 years of concert-platform
work behind him, still retains the
qualities which long ago raised
him to the front rank of piano-
virtuosi.
His technique would be diffi-
cult to better ; his interpretation
—always strong —has the added
mellow richness of long experi-
ence ; his climactic tone-massing
is still masterly; he shows no
loss of suppleness in high-speed
scale-passages; his phrasing
remains a delight, and his left
hand invokes the maximum
power for the great chordal
episodes of Bach and Beethoven.
The pianist began his first
Sydney concert with Liszt’s
transcription of Bach’s G Minor
Organ Fantasie and Fugue. This
is one of Liszt’s finest transcrip-
tions of Bach —no tinsel
brilliance and no mere writing
for virtuoso-effect. Moiseiwitsch
captured its majesty and, in the
fugue, wove the two strands so
that the whole became a remark-
able simulation of the original
instrument.
The Sonata was Beethoven’s
“\yaldstein,” Op. 53, the first
in the form cast by the master in
the really big mould. It was
marked by an introduzione —that
unearthly short slow movement
joining the two long ones —
played at the extreme of its
tempo, and a rondo full of
rhythmic jollity, its steep
crescendos powerful and the cul-
minating stretta a p;ean of
victory.
“Kreisleriana,” which fol-
lowed, isn’t Schumann at his best
—although the scherzando which
tops it off is a little gem—but
it was played in the Schuman-
nesque spirit of fantasy and
romanticism.
The all-Chopin second-half
included the Barcarolle, poetry
translated into crotchets and
quavers; the E Major Nocturne,
its filigrees wrought with fine
delicacy ; two Impromptus, the
F Sharp Major and the A Flat
Major, with the latter notable
for the brilliance of the high-
speed runs in the treble ; and the
Scherzo in B Flat Minor, con-
juring-up mystery in the darkly-
colored bass.
♦> ❖
“Summer of the 17th Doll”
In its first season of three
weeks at Sydney’s Elizabethan
Theatre; Ray Lawler’s play
couldn’t possibly accommodate
everyone who wanted to see
it, so it’s back for another three
weeks, and all hands, including
present commentator, seem
agreed that the second opening
was even better than the first.
The improvement might be
due to the enthusiasm and confi-
dence engendered by playing in
a “smash hit,” or to any of the
other hundred-and-one vagaries
that can make or mar a show.
You can’t be certain about those
things.
One daily paper was certain
that it was the play’s country-
tour that had improved the per-
formance —“the improvement is
so marked that it argues the value
of the out-of-town breaking-in
before opening in the big city,
which prevails in other
countries.”
A good argument, too, the only
flaw being that the cast which is
playing at the Elizabethan
Theatre is not, with one excep-
tion,-the cast which took the play
on tour.
Talkies
“Richard IH”
Many factors combine to make
Olivier’s screen-version of the
stage-play which he put on in
Sydney some time ago one of the
most distinguished pieces of Aim-
er aft to come out of England.
Chief of these is the in-
spiring acting of Olivier him- -
self (he also produced and
directed the film) as the hunch-
backed Gloucester, who set out
to “wade through slaughter to
a throne.” Aided by masterly
make-up, Olivier creates a
character of almost incredible
evil, and although it’s against all
the rules for an actor to look the
camera in the eye he does just
that, gazing deliberately into
the lens, and thus at the
audience, as though to confide in
them the workings of his mind.
His clipped, staccato speech, with
rising inflections, goes particu-
larly well with the ruthlessness
of the role.
There are also distinguished
performances from as fine a cast
as has been gathered together in
any one film. John Gielgud is
Clarence, and his speech to
Brakenbury in the Tower is one
of the highlights of the film,
although he is snuffed-out
straightway by the two murderers
and robbed of' his eloquent plea
to them.
Cedric Hardwicke is the failing
Edward, too willing to listen to
Gloucester’s poisonous words;
Ralph Richardson is the time-
serving Buckingham, and Alec
Clunes the luckless Hastings.
Pamela Brown is the sly, silent
Jane Shore with the enigmatic
smile ; Helen Haye the Duchess
of York, weighed down by a life-
time of looking on intrigue and
death; and Claire Bloom is
Anne, loathing the slayer of her
husband and yet hypnotised into
marrying him.
Although the film runs for
two-and-a-half hours, there have
been, of necessity, emendations.
One notable alteration is the use
of Edward’s coronation to pre-
cede Gloucester’s opening
speech, and one major omission
is the complete dropping of
Queen Margaret.
At Sydney Embassy.


The Crocodile Girl
By "DRIFTWOOD FOUR WINDS"
YOUNG Australians leav-
ing school who crave
hardship to test their
manhood, space about
them to let their personalities
expand, and freedom from the
repressions of the cities, gravi-
tate up the stock-routes to
northern Queensland or to the
unfenced cattle-kingdoms of the
Northern Territory or across the
border to the wild, little-known
ranges of the Kimberleys.
Maturer men with educations
or wealth who also chafe at the
net of government enveloping
them, and feel fear at the over-
whelming breath of civilisation
on their necks, do not choose to
become range-riders. Instead
they drift to the Islands and sit
down as copra - plantation
managers or owners.* As can be
believed, men who possess a
bank-account, a certain degree
of education, who are old
enough to have acquired a past
and who find their element on
one of the last remaining
frontiers of the Spear Age, are
not ordinary men. And
among the islands of New
Guinea is a more concentrated
collection of self - sufficient,
formidable, eccentric, know-
ledgeable, picaresque, theatrical
characters than anywhere else on*
the globe.
Garstone Blakeley was such
a man.
South Sussex is the attenuated
ridge of a mountain-backbone
poking out of the Pacific.
Away off 'its coast on the
ocean’s rim sits the blue, hazy
speck of Gola Island, where
Blakeley ruled over his
imported indentured laborers
and surrounding village kanakas.
He was a solidly-muscled man,
very black and hairy, with a
rich-toned voice and a steel-blue
chin. His sharp, jet eyes gave
the impression of seeing through
every inanimate object to its
origin, through every human to
his underlying motives, and, as a
natural result of this, his mouth
mostly bore a cynical curl.
Because he was a recluse and
because his origins were a
mystery, he was a much-
discussed person in the club at
Kamerang. The ex-Hungarian
New Australian doctor was con-
vinced from the man’s know-
ever regretted his departure—
least of all Blakeley.
Apparently in his plantation-
boys he found the simplicity
which he was unable to discover
in himself or his own race, for
among the chocolate-skinned
islanders he was as happy as
was possible for such a man. He
ruled them like iron, but
benevolently. He provided the
food, the medicine and the good
government. They supplied the
laughter.
Years before, when he had first
come to the island, the local
villagers canoeing past his beach
of an evening would gaze up at
the lighted bungalow or listen
to the strains of his saxophone
pouring out over the night
waters, and wonder how long it
would be before he was making
inquiries about the village
maidens. But the months
slipped into years without the
inquiry ever coming, until at
last the island people concluded
that such a cast-iron man would
have control over everything—
even sex. And indeed they were
right.
TQLAKELEY sat on his front-
veranda, finishing his after-
breakfast cup of coffee and
gazing out through the green
lanes of coconut-palms to the
bay where the surf exploded
from blue to white on the reef.
Bare feet padded on the polished
floor behind him and he twisted
his head.
“Yes, Wotari?” he asked with
an inquiring lift of dark eye-
brows.
The Buka houseboy wore a
cream - green laplap which
Blakeley had given him because
it matched the cream-green
painted rooms of the house. The
pastel shade contrasted oddly
with his midnight-black torso,
for like all Bukas he was a
walking silhouette with skin of
polished coal. His eyes and
teeth were as white as coconut-
meat and his face wrinkled with
an affectionate grin.
"Wanfela lapun ilaik tok long
yu, Masta.”
"Orait, Wotari. Mi kam nau,”
he replied quietly, setting his
ledge of medicine that he had
once been a doctor or at the
least a medical assistant. This
was energetically denied by the
police-sergeant, who was certain
that years before he had met
Blakeley briefly as a plain-
clothes detective. Others, who
judged from the shelves of
erudite books lining his native-
thatched bungalow, were more
inclined to regard him as an ex-
scholar. Whatever his past, it
was universally conceded that
the man was writing a
work of philosophy.
On the once or twice a year
when Blakeley visited town he
was always warmly welcomed
for his good looks and deep
voice, but invariably a few days
of company of his own kind
had a corrosive effect on the
man. The all-discerning eyes
became sharper and the cynical
grin more evident, until every
time he opened his mouth it was
to let drop a sarcastic, accurate,
but unappreciated remark. In
less than a week he always
stepped back into his canopy-
covered canoe and started the
outboard-motor, and no one
empty cup on the saucer and
rising to his feet.
Standing at the top of the
back-steps he found a shrewd-
faced old man and a pukpuk-
mary waiting below.
“Yes, Lapun. WonemV ’ he
asked, using the Melanesian
pidgin-word which means “Old
and venerable one.”
“Morning, Masta!” cried the
ancient, with a self-conscious
wriggle. "Mi laik baim grili
maresin.”
"Yu noken,” replied Blakeley
decisively. "Yu savi fesin
belong mi. Yu noken baim grili
maresin long tisfela tesin” He
added, still speaking pidgin,
“The liquid in grilly lotion is
not water, it is spirits, and
certain bad boys have been
known in the past to drink it
and become silly and ill, even
die.”
“True, Master,” agreed the old
man, chuckling at the antics of
his race, and revealing a mouth
of broken, crimson-stained teeth.
“For what purpose do you
wish to buy it?” asked Blakeley,
slowly descending the steps to
where they stood and looking
down from his white-man’s
height at the sterile-white
whiskers bristling the brown
face.
“I wish it to paint on the skin
of my daughter here,” motioned
the old man.
Blakeley examined the female
more thoroughly. She was
covered on every surface of her
body with grilly, the voracious
New Guinea ringworm which, if
unchecked, spreads out in ever-
widening rings until it covers a
native in a mass of scaly whorls.
To their fanciful imaginations
the grooves and ridges bear a
resemblance to the patterned
hide of a crocodile, so that un-
fortunates who are afflicted by
the disease are always referred
to contemptuously as pukpuk,
the pidgin-name for crocodile.
The infection hedged the
corners of her mouth and eyes
and roughened her nose, and
even spread, he noticed, between
her fingers and toes. All her
body but her eyes and nails
bore the appearance of having
been rasped—flaky and grey as
ash. She wore a dirty drab
laplap about her loins and a
circle of soiled cloth looped
from her neck.
“The time has come for her
to be married. She is young,
strong and has never been lqved.
Yet,” complained the father
bitterly, “all I am offered for her
is three-pound from another
pukpuk- man in my own village.
If her skin was clean I might
get ten-and-five-pound for her
in Kamerang. If you will not
sell me the medicine, Master—
as is your custom—paint it on
to her yourself, as you did for
all the young men in my
village.”
“That would not be proper,”
uttered Blakeley with a sardonic
mouth.
“Then Master could stand at
a distance while I apply it to her
skin,” suggested the ancient.
“That would not be proper
either,” smiled the white man.
“Then I will fetch her mother
and she can paint it on the child
in your presence,” the old man
continued hopefully.
“No!” barked Blakeley. His
face assumed a hard set.
“Listen. At one time I painted
the skins of all the young men
with grilly on this island. Every
morning there was a line of two*
times-ten or more waiting by
the door of my store, and many
expensive bottles of lotion were
used, and thus much money of
mine departed. And yet has one
of all those young men got a
clean skin now?”
“No-o, Master,” wailed the
old man miserably.


A.P.M. CLEAR LAND TO MAKE PAPER No. 1 of a series.
' . :
v
; ■ m j-y r
v* ■:
e
sHH
m
'
isi
m
> '»V'
W'V'M'Sx.,
mmWi
wmm
ill!
mm wmm
.
mi
mm
*'* - '"i
*
SSBS3
ii;
■
ilPti
m
:
m
1
:* • \VM,
(I ? \
;j# \
&&
After the Hi-8a11... a forest is born
Tearing down trees is not wilful destruc-
tion when worthless trees are removed
and valuable pine trees are planted in
their place. '
The Hi-Ball, a 9 ft. high hollow steel ball,
is towed behind two big tractors, and can
pull over between 40 and 60 acres of
timber in a day four to five times as
much as the conventional bulldozer.
This is the modern, efficient method used
by A.P.M. Forests Pty. Ltd. (a subsid-
iary Company of A.P.M. Australian
Paper Manufacturers Ltd.) to clear land
for planting pine trees . . . from which
will come pulp for making paper and
paperboards.
Two kinds of pulp are needed; long-
fibred pulp, made from soft woods like
pine, and short-fibred pulp, made from
hardwoods like eucalyptus. A.P.M. has
already prepared over 14,500 acres and
planted more than 10 million pine trees
to supply material for long-fibred pulp.
These pine plantations are putting into
production land which is not generally
good enough for farming. They provide
employment for many Australian workers
and add to Australia’s natural resources.
And they will contribute to the efficiency
and economy of A.P.M.’s operations as
Australia’s largest manufacturer of wrap-
ping paper and paperboard.*
* The term paperboard embraces card-
board, fibreboard and other heavyweight
paper. Basically the same raw materials
are used for paperboard and paper.
M
A
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria,
Botany, N.S.W., and Petrie Queensland.
“No,” agreed Blakeley. “I
told them. I told each man
separately that the stinging
medicine would clear their skins,
but unless they took precautions
the disease would begin to
blotch them again. I told them
to burn their sleeping-mats and
plait new ones. I told them to
boil their laplaps and blankets.
I told them to scrub their scalps
with much soap because the
little snake which causes the
grilly lurks in their thick hair.
And did they?”
“Yes, Master,” protested the
ancient.
“Nonsense! ” snapped the
white-man. “Look at the two of
my new plantation-boys who
were pukpuks when they arrived
here. I carried out all those
actions on them. I painted them
with the lotion from between
their toes to behind their ears. I
threw their bed-boards in the
saltwater. I cut off their hair. I
burned their blankets and issued
them with new ones. Now their
skins are as clean and shining as
infants’.”
“True, Master,”
“No,” concluded the taller
man harstjjy. “I have made too
much ineffective talk before,
given away too much unavailing
medicine, wasted too much time.
I do not care to repeat such
foolishness. You natives are all
the same. Here on the planta-
tion, where the boys are com-
pletely under the control of a
master, the master can cure
them. But you free-kanakas —
the moment you return to your
villages away from my eye, you
lose your energy and my talk
fades out of your minds.”
The old man wilted, crest-
fallen.
The white-man scowled at his
black-glossed boots for a period.
Then he broke the silence,
speaking resignedly.
“I will tell you what I will do.
I will buy this mary.”
The old man’s face lifted with
amazement.
“If she is mine it will be
all right for me to paint the
medicine on to her,” Blakeley
continued. “I will give you two-
times-ten-pounds for her. She
must stop here at my house for
three weeks and do as I say.
Then at the finish of that time —
if she is clean —I will return her
to you and you can repay the
money.”
The father goggled excitedly
at his daughter, appraising her as
if for the first time, pretending
to estimate if the price was suffi-
cient, although his heart must
have leapt greedily as the sum
£2O was spoken. He turned to
the white-man’s expressionless
face. “All right, Master,” he
grinned and nodded. “That is
good talk. I will agree to thus.”
“Good,” declared Blakeley.
“Send her back here tomorrow
with all her clothes —he eyed the
soiled rags—“and rubbish. Wait,
and I will give you the money
now.”
He turned and, pulling his
keys from hisjpocket, remounted
the steps. He paused at the top
and called over his' shoulder to
the grinning, highly - thrilled
houseboy framed in the kitchen-
doorway. “Put my hot shaving-
water in the bathroom, Wotari.”
“Yessah,” came the enthusi-
astic cry.
r T'HE following day Blakeley
tramped in with squelching
boots and his stockings furred
by grass-seeds, from the back
areas of the estate where he had
been inspecting his lines of
workers. His eyebrows rose
when he perceived the grilly
mary rise to her feet by the
kitchen-door. Then he recalled
the pact of the previous
morning.
“Oh, yes,” he said, transfixing
her with the penetrating gaze
that made his laborers wilt.
“Did you bring all your
belongings?”
She squirmed self-consciously
and opened her mouth, silently
shaping the word “Yes.”
“Good, then you understand
that you must stay here for three
weeks and do as I say. If you
do so, nice skin will come to you
and some beautiful young man
will want to marry you. If
you run home to the village,
your father will beat you.”
The woman hung her head
and did not speak.
“Right. While lam changing
my shoes, Wotari will cut off
your hair.” There broke a yelp
of protest from the kitchen, and
the anguished Wotari protested,
“Master, I could not do thus.”
“No?” He eyed the other
mischievously - grinning copper-
skinned Bogia house-lad. “Well,
we won’t ask young Diglas to
perform the operation, so it
looks as though I’ll have to do it
myself.”
A few minutes later he
returned with a pair of large
scissors and, picking up a box,
beckoned her out on to the rear
lawn, With the two boys
neglecting the bread-making,
grinning with cheek-splitting
amusement through the kitchen
window, Blakeley sat her on the
box and lopped off the dusty
tangle down to a short, bald-
headed fuzz. He flicked a flea
off his arm.
“That’s better,” he declared.
Then, glancing sardonically at
the two highly - entertained
spectators, added: “The next
stage will obviously have to be
carried out in the clothes-
ironing-room with the door
shut! ” He re-entered the house
and appeared with a paint-
brush, a mug, and a large bottle
of dark fluid. He crooked a
finger for the mary to follow
him. He held open the ironing-
room door, and as she entered
he requested the passing Wotari,
“Rip two new laplaps off that
roll of cloth on the top of the
office cupboard.”
Blakeley slipped tight the
door-latch, placed the mug on
the table, unscrewed the cap of
the bottle and poured out the
black liquid. As he approached
her with paintbrush poised, she
stammered nervously, “Oh,
Master, I have shame.”
“Nonsense,” he reassured her,
assuming his richest purring
tone. “This is something of no
account whatever.”
Before she could hesitate or
flee he began dabbing the lotion
on her face, and she was com-
pelled to fasten her eyes and
stand rigid as he brushed around
the perimeter of her mouth and
nostrils. Rapidly he painted,
coating her neck and down her
shoulders. Quickly her sense of
embarrassment was consumed in
the fire of pain as the strong
iodine-compound with 20-per-
cent. salicylic-acid bit into her
tender flesh.
“Good, Wotari,” he mur-
mured over his shoulder as two
lengths of blue laplap were
thrust under the door.
As the girl writhed with
clenched fists he slipped the
upper loop of cloth over her
head and splashed on the dark-
staining fluid. He dabbed her
navel and striped around to her
back. She stamped the floor
with her heels and rolled her
eyes, and cried in agony, “Oh,
Master, I have much pain.”
“I know,” he soothed. “But
it is only for a while, and
it will not have to be repeated
again.” He loosened the lower
laplap and pulled it away. Then,
slopping swiftly but thoroughly,
he painted on downwards. A
few minutes later he emerged
out of the ironing-room, gingerly
holding two dirty pieces of
cloth. With expressionless
features he handed them to the
equally stiff-faced Wotari and
said, “Burn those in the stove.”
“Yessah,” was the level reply.
That evening, after eating her
bowl of rice and meat, the
pukpuk- mary disappeared and
spent the night in the village.
She returned not long after
sun-up, walking very painfully
with her arms held outwards
and her legs bowed apart like
the slow, stiff movements of a
crab. Her outer skin had
shrunk, so that she was encased
in a mass of webbed, taut
creases like the wrinkled hide
of an elderly elephant. At the
stretching points of her elbows
and knees the flesh was cracked
and raw-
Blakeley looked at her and
through her, and his voice was
gentle yet like electricity
crackling through ice, and his
body was motionlessly rigid.
This was the pose which held
any wrongdoers in awe ; when
he adopted it they felt the fear
of something nameless. His
boys were never frightened that
he might strike them —Blakeley
rarely hit a boy. Nor did it
ever occur to them that in
imposing his will on them he
possessed no threat greater than
a slap, and that they held the
numerical advantage of being
sixty semi-savages as against one
lone white-man. By the'weight
of his personality, when he
assumed that far-away, soft voice
and still, poised attitude of a
snake about to strike, they felt
hovering over them a peril too
vast and dreadful to visualise.
“I am not going to be cross at
you this time,” he murmured,
“because with the medicine still
on your skin, you cannot have
picked up any more grilly.
However, in two days your old
skin will have peeled and fresh
unmarked skin will appear
underneath. Then you must not
go anywhere where there is
grilly. You will not leave this
plantation again until the end
of the three weeks.”
The third day her outer skin
began to fall in strips.
The fourth day it had almost
all given place to expanses of
paler but smooth pelt.
That evening she disappeared
to the village again.
A FTER he had risen in the
** dim dawn, unhooked his
conch-shell off the post and
startled awake all the sleepers;
in the many houses by blasting
its vibrant horn-like cry up
through the palm-lined gullies
and out across the echoing bay,
Blakeley crisply ordered the
Buka boy who was rubbing his
eyes open, “Diglas can cook the
breakfast, Wotari. I want you
to run down to Lulumei village
and find the father of this mary.
Tell him . . . now hear my talk
. . . tell him that the mary will
not co-operate so she can remain
a pukpuk. And he is to bring
the money back immediately this
morning! ”
As he was finishing his
buttered toast Blakeley glanced
out through the louvres and saw
the trio returning along the
beach. The old man was carry-
ing a cane stick, and when he
observed the Master’s eye on
them, commenced to lash the
woman’s buttocks and voci-
ferously chase her as she ran.
Blakeley wiped his mouth on a
serviette and rose.
“Good morning, Master,”
greeted the ancient, wearing an
o Continued on nexfpage )


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Skipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
OSUIXIVAtf
mm*.
TRADE ma«R
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants, 1
Manufacturing Stationers,
head office and factories
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS • : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established im m Reign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE accident marine
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
IfJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
indignant expression and heaving
for breath. “I have chased my
daughter-no-good back here
again. Your boy did not have
to go to the village, Master. He
met us halfway as I was bring-
ing her. I was bringing her
before you sent for me, Master.
I am very cross with her and
have beaten her. I have not
brought your money back
because she will stay here afld be
good, I assure you, Master.”
“Good lapun” answered
Blakeley, with the hint of a
smile.
After he had finished his
coffee he summoned the girl
and said sternly, “You slept on
your old bed last night—that is
full of grilly.”
“No, Master.”
“Then you slept somewhere in
the village, and the whole place
is infested with grilly. Your
skin-no-good of before has gone
and you now have new smooth
skin. Yet last night you stupidly
gave the little grilly-snake a
chance to burrow back into it.
I will have to paint you with
the strong stinging medicine
again.”
“Oh, no, Master! No! It
pains too much.”
“Very well, we’ll try another
method. Wotari! ”
“Yessah.”
“Fill up my shower with good
hot water and stand another
bucket of hot water in the
corner of the bathroom. Also
bring the scrubbing-brush and
that black-colored soap.”
“Yessah.”
A minute later Blakeley
appeared wearing his tattered
fishing-shirt, an ■ elastic-topped
pair of boxing-trunks which
revealed well-furred legs, and
canvas shoes. He descended the
stairs and, clamping her arm
with a thumb and forefinger
which stopped the blood circula-
tion below her wrist, and despite
her squeals and futile attempts
to strain back and cling to pass-
ing obstructions, drew her
inexorably up into the bath-
room. The two lads in the
kitchen giggled at each other
with glee and doubled-up to
smother their laughter as howls
rose from the shower-recess,
accompanied by the cannoning
of limbs against flat-iron walls,
and the sloshing of water.
After a period Blakeley
emerged, calmly flicking soap-
froth off his shirt, and, entering
his office, sat himself at the desk
and began his daily book-work.
Some time later the girl slunk
by the office-door on her way to
the outside. She was noticeably
clean and damp, with drops of
water trapped in her short hair,
and she wore two brilliant blue
laplaps and a sulky expression.
He called her to the door-
way. “From now on,” he
explained, “you are going to
have two lots of laplaps and
blankets, and every day you will
boil one lot and change into the
others. Also you will bath
thoroughly twice every , day.
Masters and Missuses don’t get
grilly, because they wash often
with plenty of soap. The boys
I painted before didn’t wash
properly, and their grilly
returned. If you co-operate,
tomorrow you can wash your-
self, but I am going to scrub you
once more today, to make sure
it is done properly for at least
one day. Tonight you will be
locked in the ironing-room so
that you cannot run away again
during the night.”
That evening after the two
boys had scrubbed the sauce-
pans and tidied-up, had brought
the kitchen-lamp into the lounge-
room, recited “Good night,” and
departed, Blakeley walked down
the passage and checked that the
girl was in the ironing-room.
Then he locked the door.
Immediately her soft voice cried
from within, “Oh, Master, you
must not lock the door. Suppose
I want to go walkabout during
the night?”
“That is just what I don’t . . .
Oh! I understand what you
mean,” he muttered. He paused
pensively outside the door with
the wick-lamp in one hand.
Then, loosening the lock, he
announced: “All right, bring
your blanket and sleep on the
floor in the corner of my room.
Then during the night I can
look to see that you are still
there.” Humming in unison
with the loud melody skirling
out of his radio, he returned to
the lighted lounge-room and his
magazines.
The final koondoo-drum had
long stopped throbbing on the
beach, the last bamboo-flute
ceased piping and the plantation-
boys were obviously inside their
mosquito-nets and asleep for the
night. The bright programmes
on the radio had degenerated
into late-hour tuneless orchestral
grindings. And Blakeley’s eyes
blurred on the page. With a
yawn, he switched off the wire-
less and, lifting the pressure-
lamp from its hook, retired to
his bedroom.
The moving light lit on the
blanket-wrapped figure in the
corner.
He realised, with annoyance,
that for the first time in years he
would have to don some night-
attire. Cursing soundlessly, he
delved through his wardrobe for
the floral laplaps he had once
possessed. He unearthed a
faded one and, going to the
bathroom, undressed and twisted
the laplap around him. He
released the pressure in the lamp
and as the light hissed out he
padded along the passage to his
bedroom. He fumbled his way
under the mosquito - net,
stretched out full length on the
bed and without delay fell
asleep.
T>LAKELEY, in his office,
finished the daily filling-in
of the medical-register describ-
ing the number of ill boys, their
maladies and his treatment.
Then, closing the book, he called
out through the sunlit window,
“Wotari. Tell the girl she is to
come and wash again. Put hot
water in the bucket.”
“Yessah, Master.”
After he heard the shower-
water falling for a while
Blakeley tip-toed through the
bathroom and poked his head
past the plastic curtain of the
shower-recess. Her back was
to him, and she was lathering
herself energetically, as if in fear
that if she skimped the process
he might come and take-over.
He grinned, and for a moment
admired the view of an exquisite,
pert back, then silently with-
drew.
He returned to the office-table,
but he was not seeing the figures
before his eyes, and the pencil
was tapping unconscious, mean-
ingless dots on the scribble-page.
He was pondering to himself
how strange that he had not
noticed previously the attractive
shape of the girl’s figure. She
possessed the lithe lines of a
boy. Before, he had not only
seen her as scabrous but had
subconsciously classified her in
the same category as the
wrinkled old marys. Now her
skin was beginning to shine with
the polished smoothness of the
young native islander.
So much nicer than the white-
man’s mummified hide, he
decided. Maybe in our original
habitat the cold northern
lands of the long twilights—our
own skins were smooth and
creamy. But here under the
New Guinea tropic sun, the
white people, descended from
generations transplanted to the
fierce, dry climate of Australia,
were characterised by a ruined
epidermis, freckled, cooked,
veined and wrinkled. By con-
trast, the tight, chocolate pelt of
the islander, the epitome of sun-
shine and laughter, was the most
attractive in the world.
He jerked out of his musings
when he heard her footpads.
She passed the doorway with a
deferent expression which, when
she met his sly grin, dissolved
into the flash of pearly teeth. He
called her back, and, wearing a
stiff face spoilt only by a slight
upward curl at each corner of
his mouth, handed her a bottle
of peroxide. “Here, a little gift
for you. I notice all the other
young village girls have blonde
hair. You only have a short bit
now, but it would look nicer if
it was golden too.”
As she started past the door-
way, he stopped her again.
“Oh, by the way. What is your
name?”
The question completely dis-
integrated her. She squirmed
with embarrassment.
“Hmmm?” he encouraged.
“Haven’t you got a name?”
She self-consciously scraped a
fingernail along the wall and
studied it earnestly.
“Hmmm?” he repeated, look-
ing up and returning the grin of
the amused Wotari digging in
the back-garden.
She wriggled and finally
struggled out the whisper
“Lista.”
“Lista.” He boomed it aloud
to show that it ought no to be a
secret. “That’s a very nice
name,” he complimented, and,
terminating the interrogation,
returned his attention to the
books. Relieved as from an
ordeal, the girl scampered down
the steps.
The following morning he
noticed the girl carrying her
laplaps and blanket over to the
boiling-copper, and he
summoned the Buka boy.
“Wotari, Lista has to wash her
own things, so she might as well
do all the house-washing while
she .is about it. That little work
will help to earn the good food
she is eating and give you an
opportunity to spade-up that
new garden-bed for the tomatoes
—a job we’ve been wanting to
get done for some time.”
“Yes, Master, that is a good
thought,” agreed the middle-
aged boy.
Blakeley never took tomato-
or black-sauce on his food, but
he insisted that they always be
on the table at meal-times, for
invariably he read while he was
eating and used those two
bottles as a prop for his book or
paper. This habit was strongly
deprecated by the cook, Wotari,
who took pains to achieve a
tasty brown on the outside of
the roast-fowl or a subtle flavor
in the oyster-soup, only to know
that it was shovelled down by
the absentminded Blakeley
without his being aware what he
was eating.
Some nights later the hand
which interspersed between his
eyes and the open page to place
the second course in front of
him seemed unfamiliar.- He
followed the hand up an arm to
realise that the neatly-groomed
girl was serving at the table. In
place of the usual lazy loop of
cloth circling around and below
her neck, which was the
common covering for female
modesty on the island, from
somewhere she had obtained
tapes and had sewn them to a
small piece of laplap to fashion
a shapely upper garment such as
was worn in Kamerang.
He straightened upright self-
consciously and coughed
nervously. “Where is Diglas?”
“He is in the kitchen,” was
the musical reply, and she
picked up the empty plate and
exited through the curtains.
Blakeley stared thoughtfully
at the wall, flexing his jaw-
muscles. The girl did all the
washing of the house-linen and
his own clothes, was even
polishing the floors the previous
day, he had noticed, and now
had begun to wait on the table.
She was infiltrating too much
into the activity of the house.
When she returned he would
tell her sternly that serving the
meals was Diglas’s prerogative.
However, when he tinkled the
bell for the dessert and she re-
appeared, he remained silent.
He clandestinely peeped at the
•hand which set down the plate.
It was very delicate, like a child’s
hand, with small, fine fingers
tapering from the smoothest of
soft arms. His glance darted
sideways to catch the rear
glimpse of her vanishing
through the parted curtains. He
swallowed a thickening in his
throat and forced his attention
to the dessert.
T}ACH day Blakeley found
•*-' himself covertly studying the
girl whenever she was unaware
that his eyes were upon her.
She was willing about the
house, darting forward to
perform a job before the two
boys. Her manner was merry
with them and profoundly
respectful towards himself. The
tinkle of her laughter would fill
him with joy and prompt him
to rise from his desk and step
to the window to discern the
cause of the merriment.
Most endearing characteristic
of all was her fondness for his
ginger cat, Liklik. Blakeley,
who wore a skin over his affec-
tion for his boys, gave his love
openly to the cat, and it
thrilled him to see that she
understood the art of tickling a
cat under its chin and gently
pulling its ears —unusual in the
islanders, who were callous
towards animals.
The compiling of the end-of-
the-month accounts for his
Sydney office —a process which
Blakeley usually ripped through
in three days took him a
befuddled week. He spent hours
rectifying absentminded omis-
sions and tracking elementary
addition-errors. The accounts
completed, he threw himself into
physical work. The boys would
be delighted when he would
appear stalking through the fines
of palms and, nudging a lad
away from his upright, sharpened
mangrove-stick, would husk and
break a couple of gabs of nuts
for him. Grins and excited
gabbling in various dialects were
the responses to the spectacle of
the Master carrying heavy sacks
of copra on his broad back and
flinging them up into the wait-
ing hands on the ex-Army truck.
Despite the deliberate expendi-
ture of energy, Blakeley could
not win easy sleep at night.
In his laplap he would lie
spread-eagled on the white
sheets. The folds of the
mosquito-net seemed to shut
out the air and trap him in a
stifling cage. Through the
louvres, the bright moon
splashed the coconut - palm
stalks silver with the topping
fronds silhouetted against the
pallid sky as motionless as cut
black cardboard. The light
flooded into the room onto the
body lying on the plaited mat
in the corner.
Because of the heat, the girl
had thrown off her blanket.
Blakeley lay propped on one
elbow staring at her bare back,
so shining, so smooth, made for
hands to caress.
With a wrench he jerked over
on the bed, forcing his attention
onto the wardrobe and the
opposite wall. He lay rigidly
for only a few moments, acutely
aware of the discomfort of each
point of contact of his bones on
the firm mattress. He rolled to
a new position. No matter how
he tried to check it, his mind
raced like a locomotive’s wheels,
and into the long hours he
twisted and tossed on the rack
of the bed.
At length a pain protested
behind his eyes. In desperation
he rose and, striking matches
down the passage-way, fumbled
and found two aspirins. He felt
among the dishes in the
refrigerator for the whisky and,
locating the familiar shape of its
cork, raised the bottle to his lips
and kept swallowing until his
legs began to swim. Undulating
like a switchback, he negoti-
ated through the curtained
doorway, and, after a struggle,
lifted the edge of the mosquito-
net, collapsed on to the mattress,
and drifted off on waves into
unconsciousness.
As soon as Blakeley swung his
legs over the edge of the bed the
next morning, and stood up, he
knew by the pain in his head
and the general twittering of
nerves that an outburst of
malaria was swarming through
his veins. The result, he
realised, ruefully, of the over-
exertions of the previous few
days. He immediately opened
the medicine-cupboard and took
two tablets of chloroquin. He
hated and feared malaria: not
because of any severity of the
illness —in these days of
improved drugs the fever could
never get more than a slight
foothold —but because in merely
taking the edge off his health it
dissolved the rocklike assurance
and dominance that formed his
backbone, and exposed him to
the gentle administrations of
Wotari. Later, with breakfast
and a strong cup of coffee inside
him, he felt more capable, and
squaring his shoulders and
clapping his pith-helmet on to
his head, strode off down to
inspect the kilns, determined to
appear normal.
(Continued on page 34)


I
e**
o'*
©e
i
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
m
m
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
raSw o ***--
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Every time you brush your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream, you can actually feel how smooth
and clean they are. Your teeth are whiter . . .
brighter . . . and you are assured of round-the-
clock protection against decay-causing enzymes.
That’s why Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest—
America’s largest—the world’s largest selling dental cream.
Get the family economy size up to 1/8
VGSA,
Coneerning folkloves
by maney kessing
WOMEN come to expect
certain things in life.
One is that any other
woman who has
reached the age of twenty-
five shall have acquired the
elementary axioms of female
lore, such as the important
knowledge that there is almost
certainly something the matter
(selfishness, “queerness,” a Don
Juan temperament) with a man
over forty who has never been
married.
No woman in her mid-twenties
or past them who worked in the
office of Patrick Connor and Co.,
Ltd., Importers and Exporters,
paid the slightest attention to
Richard Wendle’s advances. His
rather grog-sodden complexion,
his exploratory eye and his
facilely complimentary tongue,
suggested to feminine common-
sense that it was most unlikely
that a lasting romance in any-
body’s life might lurk beneath
his too-well-padded brown
double-breasted coat.
This is not to say that Richard
Wendle was unpopular with the
female staff. Miss McCansh, the
head-typist, had, in point of fact,
an undefined but very enjoyable
proprietary interest in him.
Agnes McCansh was fond of a
spot after work, and had a
regular table in the lounge of
the near-by Wool Bale Hotel.
Mr. Wendle often came up from
the bar about ten-minutes before
closing-time and joined her there.
On these occasions they usually
went off together for a meal,
sometimes to Miss McCansh’s
flat.
Another frequent companion
of Miss McCansh’s at the Wool
Bale was Mrs. Scuddy, martinet
of the filing-department. These
two were much of an age, about
thirty-five, but whereas Agnes
McCansh was slim, exquisitely
dressed and—although given to
making rather brittle, sometimes
bawdy, remarks in her deep,
beautiful voice—gave an im-
pression of aloofness, Mrs.
Scuddy was dumpy and florid,
and her expensive clothes
managed to look like so many
bags on her back. She spoke in
the loud, raucous tones of a
small-town postmistress, and had
a kindly expression on her
homely face.
Of the two, Mrs. Scuddy was
considerably the tougher. She
always rushed away punctually
at six, swinging an untidy string-
bag filled with ingredients for
her own and her husband’s
dinner. They lived at Annan-
dale, and had no children.
Richard Wendle detested her.
There were not many legends
in the saga of woman-folklore
unknown to Miss McCansh and
Mrs. Scuddy. These rough-and-
ready guides to conduct and
belief are very different from
the axioms of science or
mathematics . . . they can be
read or recited, but very few
girls seem able to learn them
theoretically: they are indelibly
and unforgettably stamped on
consciousness solely by experi-
ence, which no doubt accounts
for their acquisition taking about
twenty-five years,
So, when Miss McCansh
swallowed half-a-glass of icy
beer, lit a cigarette and said, “It’s
no use telling Beryl anything ,”
she did not intend to imply that
Beryl was dull or unreceptive.
And when Mrs. Scuddy
swallowed threequarters - of - a -
glass of icy beer and, burping
loudly, replied, “She’ll learn,”
she was making a dispassionate
statement of fact.
-OERYL GRAYLING had
■' worked for Patrick Connor
and Co. for six months. Both
Miss McCansh and Mrs. Scuddy
knew her age, but most of the
staff imagined her to be con-
siderably older. Her misleading
appearance of maturity was not
deliberate. She had strong,
symmetrical features, upon which'
she used very little make-up, and
large, shining eyes under some-
what bushy brows, upon which
she used none.
But she walked and held her-
self with a dignity which, while
it may have been common among
19th-century matrons of nine-
teen, is extremely rare in 20th-
century teenagers.
Added to which it was known
she was an orphan with no
family in Sydney, and lived in
her own flat. Most people do
not generally think of nineteen-
year-old girls doing this.
Naturally, every other young
girl at Patrick Connor and Co.
was jealous of Beryl. Beryl her-
self seemed unable to make easy
friendships with the other young
girls. She was frightened by
their goodnatured, easygoing
manners; she envied their free
laughter and their ability to flirt
meaninglessly with young men
on the staff and with travellers.
She had no friends in Sydney,
and seemed to make none, her
evening activities being limited to
two classes, one in
Economic Trends and the other
in Elementary Geology, both
chosen because she hoped to
meet some men there.
In point af fact the classes
consisted largely of elderly
spinsters with similar hopes, the
only men at either being a few
very gauche and uncertain
youths, who were themselves
due to be heartbreakingly dis-
appointed in their quest for suave
and sophisticated women.
In view of the curious behavior
of the shy young of the human
race in search of friendship, it
is not surprising that Beryl
Grayling was very lonely. At
the office, once her cultural pur-
suits became known, she was
labelled “highbrow” by all the
other girls, and left severely to
her allegedly stuck-up self.
Most of the junior typists
worked in the large central office,
where Miss McCansh could keep
an eye On their behavior and
allot work. However, when the
firm’s Melbourne - representa -
five, visiting the Sydney office
for a week, wanted a personal
stenographer, and no senior girl
was available, Miss McCansh
sent Beryl off to take his dicta-
tion and do his typing.
Miss Grayling had not been
long on the staff? at the time,
but her work was accurate and
her poise and quietness seemed
to indicate a suitability for the
honor which none of the other
juniors possessed.
The great man was delighted
with Beryl’s work, and compli-
mented Miss McCansh. Thus
it came about that when various
visiting representatives, or lesser-
executives who did not merit
their own confidential secretaries,
required work done, Beryl was
often sent to them.
Richard Wendle was on leave
when Beryl joined the firm, and
shortly after resuming work he
was sent on a country-survey
tour which lasted several months.
On his return he was promoted
to a small and inconvenient
private office, and applied for
clerical assistance in compiling
a detailed report of his tour with
a statistical statement.
Mr. Connor, senior, discussed
Wendle’s request with Miss Mc-
Cansh. The interview was no
surprise to her, because Richard
had told her of the application
over a beer at the Wool Bale,
and had suggested that, in view
of his increasing importance to
the firm, the. time had come for
him to have a permanent typist.
She promised to put in a word
for him.
“No,” said Mr. Connor, senior.
“Not yet. He’s a good salesman,
but he’s only a salesman so far.
On the other hand, he’s doing
promising work. What about
seconding that sensible girl Miss
M. . . er . . . Grayling to him
for the time being?”
“Ah, well,” laughed,
when Agnes reported this, “I
didn’t expect the old boy to play
ball really, but there’s no harm
in asking. What’s the popsy
like?”
Miss McCansh found some
difficulty in describing Beryl to
the office-Lothario. They were
drinking a final beer, and she
busied herself in removing a
fleck of ash from the froth with
a long red fingernail.
“One of your beaut, little
blondes, Ag?” he asked.
“No,” she said. “Beryl is quiet.
Good at her work.”
“Sounds ghastly. Probably
just what I need.”
“Yes. All the better for your
concentration,” she replied
acidly.
'T'HE success of this report
A meant a good deal to
Richard Wendle, in that if as a
result of it the firm enlarged its
country section he was almost
certain to be appointed assistant-
manager.
For a week or so after Beryl
went into his office he was too
interested and preoccupied with
the preliminary compiling of
material gathered on his country
trip to pay other than the most
cursory attention to his typist.
Although she had so little in
common with the other girls,
Beryl had heard gossip about this
man. There was fluffy little
Valerie, who had been kissed
when she met him on the fire-
stairs one day (though goodness
knows what she was doing
there); Pat, whose bottom had
been pinched as she reached for
copy-paper on the top shelf of
the dark stationery cupboard;
Fran, who had twice dined with
Mr. Wendle and had told him
properly what she thought of
him —so she said. There were
two legendary girls who once
left the firm in hasty mystery.
Rumor added that only for Miss
McCansh’s friendship and pro-
tection Mr. Connor would have
been bound to sack Mr. Wendle
“years ago.”
Yet Beryl had also noticed
that, on his first morning at work
after the country trip, Valerie,
Pat and Fran had all bounced
into his office to inquire after
his health, with much swinging
of hips and many dirty looks
at each other ; and she had over-
heard the three of them discuss-
ing her own good-fortune one
morning-tea-time in tones of
envy.
After the first week she knew
he had been despicably mis-
understood.
After the second week she
knew that only one person in
the world was capable of under-
standing him.
At the beginning of the third
week he glanced up from a typed
list of figures which she had
placed before him, and caught
her adoring eye, when it suddenly
occurred to him that here, so
to speak, was the one occasion
when he had not blundered
after pulchritudinous oppor-
tunity.
And offering itself quite un-
ashamedly, because, for one
thing, it scarcely knew what it
was offering. Or why. Or what
it wanted. Or that that was
what it wanted.
And at an infernally incon-
venient time, because Mr. Con-
nor, senior, who was not such a
blind old bore as one supposed,
in discussing the possible results
of the forthcoming report, had
spoken rather forthrightly about
“responsibility,” “integrity,” and
“nothing and no one” being
“more important than the good
name of an old-established firm
. .no person, no matter how
promising, is indispensable.”
Mr. Wendle did not confide
this part of Mr. Connor’s con-
versation to Miss McCansh, and
neither, as it happened, did she
mention to Richard that the old
boy had spoken to her in very
similar words.
of them observed
Beryl Grayling’s infatua-
tion with pleasure or equani-
mity.
With a vague, unformulated
hope that Mrs. Scuddy might
have some suggestion to offer,
Agnes McCansh had mentioned
the subject of Beryl over their
beer that afternoon, but Mrs.
Scuddy, with her “She’ll learn,”
had not been helpful.
“I feel... um ... responsible
for Beryl,” said Miss McCansh
virtuously.
“Do you, dear?”
“It’s not as if she has a family
to fall back on.”
“No shot-guns for Miss Gray-
ling,” chuckled Mrs. Scuddy.
“Actually, I do not think Mr.
Wendle is encouraging the girl.”
“That thought must make you
happier.”
“She’s scarcely his type.”
“Really?” Mrs. Scuddy
laughed maliciously. “Really,
Ag, you know she’s very much
like you.”
“Precisely.”
“Well, dear, I must go. We’re
only having a grill, but the
vegies take a while.”
(Continued on page 34)
AGGRIEVED CAT
Little fool, little fool, why must
you die
So soon, and lie
Limp and inert?
I did not wish to hurt
You even unto death,
But would have held
Your fur smooth, your feeble
breath
Pulsing, and have my hour of
fun
Before your body chilled.
Little fool, go here, go there I
I toss you in the air
And catch you as you fall
And toss you up again
And that is all
I hope for now;
You feel no pain
And I can but imagine how
I would have loved to feel
Your torture sharp, your agony,
While I, rejoicing still,
Should know that luxury,
That savoring of your terrors,
long and sweet,
So, damn you, little cheat!
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
SEED
Under the wild sun
burning life to a seed,
the flower takes from its lover
only a shadow’s need
to cast a net that draws
noon into night.
It holds in its ghostly flesh
the last of the light—
a red-gold glint of summer—
till under the winter’s mountain,
when a flower is no more than
shadow,
the seed, like the sun, goes down,
to rise one day in the morning
towards a red-gold noon.
So slight a thing is a flower:
it goes from light so soon.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


Building Biographies
What’s What in “Who’s Who”
By ALEC H. CHISHOLM
"thAME! FAME AT
|H LAST! ” — so a Bulletin
-L heading proclaimed when
reviewing, in 1906, the
first edition of Fred Johns’s
Notable Australians, ancestor of
the present Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia.
As a bush-dwelling youngster
who was then becoming en-
grossed by various aspects of the
Australian scene, I was much im-
presssed by what the reviewer
termed “the notability of these
notable Australians”; and so,
having an amiable weakness for
collecting both prose and verse
from The Bulletin, I extracted
the notice and pasted it into a
sturdy contraption (once a
tailor’s sample-book) that served
as my first medium for the pre-
servation of cuttings.
Now, coinciding with the
appearance of the latest Who’s
Who in Australia (15th edition),
I have been looking through that
Bulletin article of 50 years ago
and have been nodding sagely
over its predictions: first, that
the work would be uncommonly
useful, and, secondly, that there
was “room and verge enough for
it to grow.”
Also I have been poring over
an extensive list of “poets,”
“poetical writers,” “authors,”
“authoresses,” and others cited
by the reviewer.
“Fancy! ” he cried. “We have
(?) fifteen Poets in the Common-
wealth” ; and as a prelude to
publishing their names he invited
us to “watch them climb the
sacred mount.” Alas, almost
every entrant mentioned in the
review, from E. J. Brady to Mrs.
Humphrey Ward, has since gone
over the crest of “the sacred
mount.” So, too, have a score of
newspaper-editors who figured
in that pioneer volume.
In point of fact, out of the
entire throng of writers and
artists listed in The Bulletin
notice only four are now living.
They are Mary Gilmore, Ethel
Turner, Norman Lindsay and
Will Ogilvie.
Reflecting further, I suspect
that when studying and preserv-
ing that “Fame-at-last” review,
half-a-century ago, I was made
the subject of a playful fancy on
the part of some forward-look-
ing fairy. For, as matters fell
out, after leaving the bush and
working upon newspapers in
various cities, I found myself,
quite unexpectedly, in the very
job founded by Fred Johns: that
is, the editorship of Who’s Who
in Australia. It had fallen
vacant because the previous
editor, Joe Alexander, had joined
the staff of the Australian lega-
tion in Moscow.
Earlier, the publication had
been fathered in Adelaide and
Sydney, respectively; but now
it was centred upon Melbourne,
as the property of the company
running the Melbourne
“Herald,” and it had become a
special interest of the chief of
that organization, Sir Keith
Murdoch. Nevertheless, Mur-
doch assured me at the outset
that he had no desire to share in
the work of production, and,
other than making one or two
general suggestions, he did not
do so.
The job proved to be interest-
ing and amusing. But, by
reason of its nature —you can’t
cope with thousands of bio-
graphies of living persons with-
out getting into strife it was
also pretty strenuous and at times
prickled with irritations.
My edition was No. 13, and
its period a year or two after
the end of World War 11.
Naturally, that big disturbance
made a strong impact on the
work, for, aside from difficulties
in determining which entrants
had died since the previous issue
—they numbered, in fact, more
than 400—there was an obvious
obligation to include many new
biographies, of women as well as
men, in the light of notable ser-
vice rendered during the war
years.
Through that and other con-
siderations (including the exten-
sion of diplomatic services) the
additional biographies ran to
more than 1000, and, necessarily,
the outcome was a volume that
made its original ancestor, the
brave little Johns product of
1906, look rather like a wren
that had hatched an eagle.
With a total of almost 7000
biographies, occupying, with an-
cillary material, more than 900
pages, the edition was the largest
of its kind to date and inaugu-
rated the post-war development
of the series. But, as a matter
of course, the two succeeding
volumes are larger still; entries
in the current one total about
7300, though in fact some are
not biographies but merely
names and addresses.
Incidentally, this latest edition
has broken the series of three-
yearly appearances by running
almost three years behind time;
it was due early in 1953 and
didn’t emerge until late ’55. The
delay, I imagine, was caused by
factors outside editorial control,
for no issue requires five years
of work—if it did so some of the
entries would • be out-of-date
before being printed.
In my own case a small staff
got through the job of
assembling, editing and proofing
material in precisely 12 months.
At that time, moreover, Sir Keith
Murdoch was toying with the
idea of making Who’s Who in
Australia, like its elder brother
in Britain, an annual production,
wherefore it is the more surpris-
ing that the series has slipped,
though perhaps only temporarily,
from three-yearly to five-yearly
publication.
Whether or not annual produc-
tion is justified (and it probably
isn’t at present), there can be no
doubt that Who’s Who serves a
very useful purpose. Since the
material is supplied by the
entrant personally (through fill-
ing-in a form) it can be accepted
as essentially accurate, and thus
in most instances an informative
outline of the subject’s career is
provided.
The value of these brief
biographies is not restricted to
Australia. A Melbourne busi-
nessman related that, on an
economic mission to Canada, he
and his colleagues found them-
selves, at a State dinner, immedi-
ately at ease with their table-
companions, the explanation
being that the local fellows had
been consulting Who’s Who in
Australia and so had a general
idea of each guest’s career and
special interests, not to mention
the number and sex of his
children.
A similar experience befell me
personally in Holland. Visiting
Amsterdam as a lecturer, I had
scarcely got settled in a hotel
before a local official came along
and inquired, with a complacent
grin, if I would like to go “idling
in green places”—he had (as he
admitted) looked me up in Who’s
Who and discovered that prac-
tice set down as a recreation.
However, there are some inter-
national limits to that sort of
thing. Guy Innes once told me
he was much diverted, at a
United Nations conference, by
the attempts of a feminine inter-
preter, who was really quite
accomplished, to translate the
words “Who’s Who” into col-
loquial Russian.
It is fair enough, perhaps, to
say that Who's Who is at once
a book of reference and a
symbol of nationhood. That is
why the editor in each instance
is at pains to point out that no
one can buy his or her way into
the work. Publication of bio-
graphies on a basis of payment is
left to those sectional productions
—“Who’s Who” in this, that, and
the other thing which
Americans term “vanity books.”
How, it is frequently asked,
are persons selected for entry
into Who’s Who in Australia ?
The reply is: Simply on a basis
of achievement. And if the
questioner wants to know how
achievement is assessed, the best
thing to tell him is that the
assessment is made, by the
editor and his advisers, on a
basis of judgment and common-
sense.
Actually, the controller of such
a volume is faced with battalions
of problems bearing on the
matter of selection.
As a matter of course, con-
siderable quantities of citizens,
from the Governor-General and
the Prime Minister onward, win
a place in the team by virtue of
the positions they hold or have
held. This goes for Governors,
heads of large 'organizations,
judges, Q.C.s, university pro-
fessors, and (as a generous ges-
ture) even members of all Parli-
aments in Australia. Thus far,
selection is plain sailing. Trouble
begins only when you try to
assess individuals apart from any
question of position.
The chief editorial headaches
in this regard are caused by the
borderline cases. Given certain
guiding principles, it is still im-
possible to establish a precise
definition governing entries —one
that will meet all contingencies.
Personally, I often found it
difficult to determine whether a
certain artist and a certain
author merited places in the same
volume as (say) the Lindsays
and Bernard O’Dowd. It was
even more difficult to sort out the
medical men—to decide which
among the huge band (and we
couldn’t take the lot) were
rendering, especially in an
honorary capacity, community
service that made them dis-
tinctive.
Problems associated with the
Services (arising from World
War II) were also very tough.
We took, of course, all winners
of the Victoria Cross and the
George Cross, plus all top-
rankers among officers, but the
difficulty was to know where to
draw the line. I did, in fact, fix
a minimum in the matter of
rank, but presently found myself
forced to relax it. That was
because quite a few officers below
my minimum had done jobs (not
necessarily in action) that made
them more worthy, from the
viewpoint of Who’s Who, than
numbers of men higher in rank.
In that post-war period
potential entrants were very
widely scattered, and some of
them took a good deal of find-
ing. The whereabouts of a
certain citizen of some tonnage
became known to us only when
police discovered him in a remote
spot and arrested him for for-
gery. But, naturally, the men
most difficult to locate were those
quartered in other countries. One
ex-officer whom we addressed
to Jerusalem turned up in
Jamaica. '
In all, we contacted approxi-
mately 300 notable Australians
who were living abroad, and
almost every one of them
rejoiced at having been “dis-
covered” at the prospect of
figuring in a reference-book in
the land of his birth.
We also took into that edition
some few men who were not
Australian either by birth or
residence, but who had mani-
fested special interest in this
country. They included the
Englishman Thomas Wood
(author of Cobbers ) and the
American C. Hartley Grattan
(student of Australian literature).
I have seldom known a man
to be so cheered by a modest
courtesy as Tom Wood was when
invited into Australia’s Who’s
Who. His pleasure rivalled that
of the expatriate James Francis
Dwyer, who wrote from France
to the effect that he was delighted
at the prospect of appearing in
the Who’s Who of his native
land, where he had once spent
a term in jail.
Other men who were both
pleased and surprised at being
selected included a number of
“real” Australians fullblood
aborigines—and an assortment
of sporting identities. As to the
latter, we roped-in various lead-
ing cricketers, golfers and tennis-
players, but no footballers (over-
numerous in various codes), and
no jockeys. At the suggestion
of Turf-writers we did invite
three or four jockeys to fill in
forms, but they, being ever on
the alert, probably suspected a
trick on the part of some rival
stable, and so they disregarded
our letters. None of them got
a second chance.
One cricketer, by the way,
missed-out through petticoat-
government. When returning his
form he included the full names
of his two daughters, and when
told that they would figure only
as “2 d.” he replied mournfully
that if their names were omitted
his also would have to be can-
celled.
In most cases, the soundness of
our judgment in selecting
potential entrants was cordially
endorsed by the entrants them-
selves. But not always. “Really,”
wrote one good citizen, “I don’t
know why I should be in Who’s
Who, unless the surviving of
three winters in Ballarat and
forty in Melbourne is a mark of*
some distinction.”
Numbers of the newcomers
declared frankly that they were
pleased to be entering Who’s
Who, but claimed (probably with
sincerity) that this was not for
their own sake but because their
elderly mothers, or maybe their
wives and children, would “get a
kick” from the distinction.
Somewhat tough dilemmas
developed in the cases of several
authors, both men and women,
who are well-known only by pen-
names. Two in particular were
anxious to appear under their
real names for the gratification of
their families, but each had
sound reasons for not wishing to
disclose the authorship of some
of his writings. Eventually, fol-
owing much discussion, I agreed
to run one man under his pen-
name, with all books listed, and
the other under his real name
with only a general statement
regarding his writings. The
deciding factor in the latter case
was the yearn of the entrant to
enable his mother to show the
entry to various acquaintances
who, in her son’s youthful days,
had predicted that he would
come to a sticky end.
Inevitably, we encountered a
number of snags from time to
time, both among potential
entrants and among those who
were already represented by


skimpy notices. I am not thinic-
ing here of the fellow who
apparently can’t help being
boorish, or the one who is merely
forgetful, but rather of the type
who is willing to have his name
published without “disclosing
anything worth while. In some
instances the reticence may be
genuine; more often it is simply
a pose on the part of humbugs
who want to boast of their dis-
like of publicity.”
Rather unexpectedly, I fell into
argument with several entrants
who appeared to regard portion
of their Christian-names as some-
thing in the nature of a skeleton
in the personal cupboard, and
wanted them represented only by
an initial; they included (as was
ascertained under pressure) an
Elias, a Tobias and a Clarence.
Many other men were shy on
family details, and in some in-
stances they got into a tangle by
omitting an earlier marriage and
yet claiming a number of
children after being married (a
second or third time in fact)
only a year or two.
But, as may easily be guessed,
our chief stumbling-block was
the matter of age. Most men, I
found, were frank and even
cheerful on this point. Others
were coy to the point of defiance.
My toughest rebel was a Premier
—he gave his place of birth, but
stolidly declined to name either
the year or the day. King
O’Malley, picturesque ex-Federal
Minister, was another snag, but
I doubt if he himself knew pre-
cisely when he was born ; he
was probably about 95 when he
died in 1953.
An amusing case was that of
a New South Wales politician
who stealthily reduced his age
when handed a comfortable
Governmental job. A Sydney
newspaper discovered that the
birth-date was materially earlier
in previous editions of Who’s
Who, and when the rigger de-
clined to say which date was the
correct one, the paper got from
London a copy of his birth-
certificate (which showed him to
be past the retiring-age) and
spread it halfway across a page.
Some women disclose their
birth-dates quite freely. Others
omit them only because (as they
say) there is no sound reason
why they should furnish material
for gossip: “My dear, fancy that
woman being over 50 . . .!”
An unusual excuse was that
of a writer-grandmother who,
while claiming to feel “as young
as ever,” suggested that dis-
closure of her . age would
probably prejudice her with
editors, the idea being that those
susceptible fellows would say,
“Tut-tut, we must have a
younger and fresher pen among
our feminine contributors.”
One woman who gave her age
(on a new form) changed her
mind and put a pen through the
line, and then, for greater safety,
she seized her trusty nail-scissors
and cut out that portion ofi the
form, leaving only ink-marks at
the edges.
On a single day three returns
from women all differed in the
matter of age-treatment. One
gave the date resolutely, in bold
figures. Another revealed the
day (handy as a guide for
generous friends), but not the
year. As for the third, when she
came to the line reading “Born
(full date)”, she wrote tersely,
“Never ask a woman such a
question.”
With some entrants age is a
matter of pride. One elderly man
asked that his biography be held-
up until he received from Eng-
land advice clearing a doubt
regarding his birth-date —and he
was very bucked on learning that
he was a year older than he had
supposed. Another man a
politician, if you please! —pro-
tested that in an earlier volume
he was shown as having been
born in 1876, whereas in fact the
year was 1873.
It seems probable that the
average age of entrants in Who’s
Who in Australia is about the
same as that in America, where
a back-breaking check gave the
average as 53 years. A handicap
to preciseness there, however,
was the fact that 29 per cent,
of the American women and 2
per cent, of the men concealed
their ages.
Certainly the age-group most
numerously represented in the
Australian publication is 45-60.
In my own edition there was a
youngster of 21 and a veteran
of 98 among the men and
entrants ranging from 26 to 87
years among the women ; and the
senior subject in the current
issue, I should say, is that
remarkably robust ex-editor of
the Melbourne “Argus” Sir
Edward Cunningham, due for a
97th birthday in July.
But, of course, the average
age when persons have “arrived,”
and are still working actively, is
from 45 upward. And that
period, especially in relation to
a public print, is the one when
many a man, to say nothing of
many a woman, is getting a bit
chary about disclosing his or her
age.
Relative to the enormous
number of dates published, few
errors occur in any Who’s Who.
When an entrant does slip on
a figure it’s usually in regard to
marriage. The number of worthy
citizens who are weak on
wedding-dates and who send
corrective notes after consulting
Mum —would astonish even a
hardened quiz-master.
Forgetfulness in these days of
flurry sometimes extends to the
omission of a wife and children.
In three instances entrants wrote
apologising for having forgotten
to add a child born since the
previous edition. Younger men
never err in that fashion. They
are, indeed, apt to parade the
family. “You will agree,” wrote
one prideful ex-bachelor, “that
it is very pleasant to be able to
record the acquisition of both
wife and son since your last
edition.” We agreed that it was.
Our own most curious slip—
and the only serious one as far
as we knew —was not an error
of fact but the entire omission of
an important entry. Partly
because of the status of the man
concerned, but mainly because he
had clashed heavily with Mel-
bourne “Herald” a few months
previously, we took more care
than usual with his biography,
and yet when the volume issued,
and I chanced to open the first
copy at his page, I was staggered
to find that he didn’t rate a single
line.
Inquiry revealed that the entry
had reached the printer, but had
never been put into type ; it had,
apparently, slipped to the floor
through some freakish mischance
and been swept into a rubish-bin.
In the circumstances, the only
thing to be done was to call upon
that ill-used citizen with an
apology, and to tell him that his
biography would appear in a
small supplement that was being
prepared to cover occurrences
during printing. He was quite
decent about the matter, but
grinned when I suggested that
everyone interested would
realise that the omission was
accidental.
“I’ll bet you a new hat,” he
said, “that when your volume
begins to circulate I can produce
evidence genuine evidence —
that at least half-a-dozen fellows
will have said to me, ‘I see you
have been left out of Who’s Who
in Australia because of your
argument with the “Herald.” ’
I didn’t take that bet.
A woman with a taste for
detail once asked me whether
Australian country areas held
their own with cities in produc-
ing notabilities. An interesting
question, this, but too much time
would be required to assemble
precise figures. What I do know
is that a very large number of
Who’s Who subjects confess (and
with pride) to having been born
in towns or hamlets.
. R. G. Menzies, for example,
first exercised his voice at little
Jeparit, in the Victorian Mallee.
Archie Cameron twiddled his
pink toes at Happy Valley (S.A.).
Certain other entrants started-
out at Christmas Creek, Natte
Yallock, Grass Patch and White
Gum Valley—see if you can find
those peaceful spots on the map
—and lots of others, again,
hailed from towns having only a
few thousand inhabitant!.
For another and smaller matter
of comparison, it may be worth
passing mention that the most
numerous representation in the
volume is that of entrants whose
surnames begin with the letter
B. Next is C, closely followed by
S, W, and M. If M and Mac
were taken together they would
top the poll, but, as is the general
custom, they are kept apart.
In each instance, of course,
the subject signs his entry, and
that means a heck of a lot of
signatures. It occurred to me
more than once that the editing
of Who’s Who would be a dream
of delight for an autograph-
hunter.
A section of the entry-form
that often produces impressive
results is the one given to
recreations. These, usually, are
the measure of our years. That
is why some fellows can’t bring
themselves to make amendments,
and so continue to boast of
sporting activities long left
behind. Other entries change
from edition to edition as the
subject grows older.
You can almost picture the
wistful expression on a man’s
face as he scratches out “tennis”
and substitutes “chess,” or dis-
cards “golf” and substitutes
“gardening.” One man who used
to do “orchard work and motor-
ing” scrapped them in favor of
“fishing.” Another mourned, “I
am now too old for hunting;
put me down for bowls.”
Recreations as a whole are a
study in themselves. They range
from goldfish to first-aid, from
folk-dancing to philosophy. And
they include such oddments as
idling, debunking, playing the
glockenspiel, pottering about,
and (this is something of a
favorite) “reading trash.”
A sign of the times is provided
by an elderly woman whose
recreation used to be “reading.”
She struck that out and substi-
tuted “Housework, housework,
housework! ”
On the other hand, an Aus-
tralian doctor living abroad has
stated his pastimes as “sitting,
thinking, listening”—a statement
calculated to make an average
doctor mutter, “Obviously, that
fellow isn’t a general practi-
tioner ! ” It seems probable,
too, that colleagues of
a certain professor
smiled grimly when they
read, in Who’s Who,
that his recreation was
“General enjoyment of
life.”
I have said earlier that it is
customary to lose several
hundreds of entrants through
deaths between editions. That
fact constitutes a problem in
itself, for it isn’t easy to keep
track of all those occurrences.
Generally, though, relatives rally
round when a form is sent for
revision to an entrant who has
passed away.
One of my most striking
examples,of such aid was pro-
duced by the son of a man in
Queensland. He, after revealing
that his father had died,
announced solemnly, “Therefore,
he is unable to complete your
form ” Moreover, the letter
ended with the polite tag,
“Hoping that this information is
satisfactory to you.”
That, it may be agreed, was
pretty close to the highwater-
mark of courtesy. But here is
an even riper example:
There reached me from a legal
firm a letter recording the passing
of a one-time notable journalist,
and stating that he had left, “at
his death,” a request that Who’s
Who in Australia should be in-
formed that he was no longer a
candidate. Good old Harry! He
was always a considerate fellow.
Even so, one would scarcely have
imagined that in his last hours he
would have thought of request-
ing that Who’s Who be advised
to remove his name.
It seems appropriate to add that
in my present and much larger
job, the editing of The Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia, I am not
concerned with discarding bio-
graphies of the dead but with
the collecting of such notices. In
the previous edition of this work
(about 26 years ago) biographies
of a number of living men were
given, with the result that certain
other fellows of about equal
status launched hearty protests
at their omission. Anyway,
biographies of living persons
belong to Who’s Who, and so
they are not included in the
Encyclopaedia now being pre-
pared.
Naturally, lots of men and
women who are still on deck are
being mentioned in articles that
involve their activities (discus-
sions ranging from Art to
Zoology); but, in the matter of
biographies, it is sufficient for us
to deal, in reasonable detail and
in much more “human” fashion
than is possible in any Who’s
Who , with persons of note who
have vacated the scene. I may
say, too, that we have re-dis-
covered quite a bunch of pic-
turesque and useful Australians
who had long been lost to public
knowledge.
Overall, we have in this
Encyclopaedia rather more than
2000 biographies, almost double
the number given in Percival
Serle’s two-volume work of
1949, the Dictionary of Aus-
tralian Biography. In various
instances, ranging from James
Cook to W. M. Hughes, our
notices run to considerable
lengths.
A few words more. Writing in
The Bulletin during 1946 (April
10), a contributor discussed Aus-
tralian reference-books as a
whole and made various sound
suggestions, partly in relation to
existing volumes and partly
regarding works that ought to be
produced. One of his pleas was
for a new Australian Encyclo-
paedia, plus an index. Another
was for a biographical dic-
tionary. A third was for a
gazetteer listing all important
centres (with populations, in-
dustries, etc.), and giving notes
on all the chief mountains,
rivers, lakes, bays, islands, and
other geographical features. A
fourth plea was for a dictionary
of dates.
It may refresh that Bulletin
writer, and possibly lots of
others, to know that every one
of those pleas is being met in the
new A ustralian Encyclopaedia,
which —to the extent this time
of 10 volumes —is now nearing
completion.
In brief, this edition surveys
the entire Australian scene,
human and otherwise. And, as
I say, not the least important of
its features is the appraisement of
the work of men and women, not
now living, who have done much
to build up the nation. If, there-
fore, The Australian Encyclo-
pcedia is not a Who’s Who, it is
certainly a Who Was Who —and
much else besides.
Waterloo,’56
By BELLE CARLIN
THE precarious state of the
family - exchequer, coupled
with the honey-toned insistence
of a favorite disk-jockey,
prompted the offer of my services
to a quiz-session catering ex-
clusively for the housewife.
Typewritten assurance of a
warm welcome and a mutually
pleasant and profitable afternoon
was enthusiastically received.
Followed diligent newspaper-
swatting of items on the Monaco-
Hollywood alliance, Princess
Margaret’s latest lyric acquire-
ment (i.e., hat) and similar news-
bits in which the session
specialises.
Q-Day dawned bright and fair.
I arrived in the city ahead of
schedule, shuffled forward in a
queue, partook of a light lun-
cheon, and joined a coterie of
females, all experiencing the
same monetary difficulties, judg-
ing from the facial expressions,
the general air of jackpot-aware-
ness, and the frenzied last-minute
newspaper-scanning for facts
that would complete a half-asked
question.
A knowledgeable - looking
aspirant eyed me warily and in-
formed me: “Been waiting for
three years now.” . . .
Zero-hour. The reception-
room took on the tensity of an
armed truce.
The sponsors merit a word.
They were truly magnificent. In
addition to the monetary prizes,
aspirants were privileged to enjoy
a theatre’s upholstered splendor,
a selection of dainties guaranteed
to imperil tlje trimmest waistline,
and a flagon of amber-colored
liquid which Mr. Oral Roberts,
(Continued on page 34)


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBRIO
SCHOOL, situated in the
Country*
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 2878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: .
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS-
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. Ji. E. MANION, Manager,
liraacbea in ail States Agencies In all Country Cen r
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
There were 29 nominations,
mostly top-class milers, for the
£2500 All-Aged Stakes, one of
the feature weight - for - age
events on the A.J.C.’s autumn
programme. However, when
they line-up today (Wednesday)
the field will, as usual, be small
but select.
Last autumn Prince Morvi,
after finishing third in the Don-
caster to Fire Dust and Count
Roussel, started favorite at 10 to
9 for the All-Aged Stakes, and,
ridden by N. Sellwood, beat
Karendi and Raconteur. The
going was dead, and Prince
Morvi took 1.39| to cover the
mile. On a firm track it’s gener-
ally run in about 1.36^.
The All-Aged Stakes has,
over the years, been won by
such good horses as Peter Pan,
Desert Gold, Woorak, Beauford,
Valicare, Amounis, Limerick,
Chatham, Ajax (three wins) and
Yaralla, just 1 to mention a few
of the topnotchers. Peter Pan’s
1.35 (in 1935) remains the fastest
time for the race. He was
-ridden by Jim Pike and defeated
Mark and Silver King.
| Fifty years ago two-year-olds
competed, and two winners were
Emir and Charles Stuart, each
carrying .7.1. Charles Stuart
couldn’t have been too dusty—
he covered the mile in 1.38,
fastest time of that era.
Knave was too good for the
favorite, Kingster, with Sir New-
ton third, in the A.J.C. Cham-
pagne Stakes last autumn. On
again today (Wednesday), and
worth £2500, the event is one in
which Sires’ Produce Stakes
form has often figured promi-
nently. Knave finished second to
Kingster in the Sires’ Produce
last season, with Sir Newton
third ; in recent years Lindbergh,
Ocean Bound, True Course,
Temeraire and Magnificent all
won both events. Manfred
(1935) and Pandova (1938) share
fastest time, 1.11.
Stayers will be racing for'the
big money next Saturday, the
final day of the A.J.C. meeting,
when the principal event will be
the £BOOO Queen Elizabeth
Stakes (I£. mile; w.f.a,). This
race was first programmed last
season, Prince Cortauld then
winning easily from Pride of
Egypt and Carioca.
Brilliant New Zealander King’s
Fair must be one of the Turf’s
unluckiest horses. Not only was
he nosed out of the Doncaster
by Slogan 11, with Decisive third,
but he also was beaten a head by
Hans in the Epsom last spring,
in each instance conceding many
pounds to his conquerors. As
he started favorite at short odds
for the Epsom and equal-favorite
for the Doncaster, he has cost
racegoers a fortune.
King’s Fair was defeated in
the Doncaster mainly because he
drew No. lat the barrier. It
meant that A. Mulley had to give
him the role of pacemaker, a job
he didn’t want with 9.2, and
which gave Slogan 11, on 7.8,
the last, and winning, run. On
the winner’s side, all credit must
be given to J. Thompson, a clever
horseman who combines intel-
ligence and strength to bring
home his winners. New Zealand-
bred horses filled all places in
the Doncaster.
A snail-pace was adopted by
the five jockeys in the A.J.C. St.
Leger won by Melbourne-
owned and -trained Sailor’s
Guide. The Victorian colt seemed
lucky to win, as his jockey, N.
Sellwood, was pocketed at a vital
stage of the classic —a furlong
or so from the winning-post.
Sellwood managed to barge his
way through for a close victory.
The race was run in “record”-
slow time for recent years,
3.17 7-10—the slowest St. Leger
since Limarch’s in 1934.
The A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes carried a winning-cheque
for £5070 and was won easily by
favorite Gay Sierra. Even at the
4500gns, he cost as a yearling
in New Zealand he is a bargain
racehorse ; the stable has bene-
fited handsomely from his
various wins, apart from stake-
winnings (£8285). Starover was
no match for the Gabador colt,
and was, in fact, cut from second
place by Gay Lover —a £5OO cut!
Electro, a top-class five-year-
old with many wins to his credit,
returned to his best form in the
A.J.C. Autumn Stakes, starting
favorite and being capably
handled by W. Camer. The
stable by-passed the Sydney Cup,
planning to land the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes.
Andonni, winner of the A.J.C.
Tocal Handicap, went to the post
at 20 to 1, which seemed the right
quotation on form. He hadn’t
won a race for a few months, and
at his prior outing a week earlier
had beaten a couple home in
Regal Forest’s Rosehill Handi-
cap, again starting at forlorn
odds. Apprentice J. Gallagher
rode a well-judged race to beat
another “roughie,” Brimses, with
the sensationally-backed grey,
Persian Link, third. Persian Link
was the medium of one of the
biggest plunges seen in a minor
event at Randwick in years.
Unplaced at her two prior
starts, Bendrum surprised in the
Flemington Juvenile Stakes on
Saturday, downing odds-on
favorite Eleeta. Raced by her
breeders, R. H. and H. J.
Benyon, of Albury (N.S.W.),
Bendrum is by Masthead (imp.)
from Unerring by Caithness
(imp.) from Miss Arrow by
Spearhead (imp.). Bred on stay-
ing lines, she could soon add to
winnings.
Grand Stream, a former
Sydney winner, didn’t take long
to recoup Brisbane trainer Athol
Strong his purchase-price, as he
won the Q.T.C.’s Easter Handi-
cap, with another former Sydney
galloper, Kev Mar, second, and
Electric Glance third.
Garonne, runaway winner of
a Hawkesbury Two-year-old,
should be able to gallop: her
relatives include Cultured
(V..R.C. Newmarket), Serenata
(N.Z. Cup), Ultrablue (Gimcrack
Stakes), and three New Zealand
Derby winners, Rink, Honour
and Commendation, as well as
Variant (N.Z. Oaks). The filly,
who was having her first public
outing, is by Nilo (imp.), and is
from Perilla by Ringmaster
(imp.) from Minga by Limond
(imp.) from Motley by Absurd
(imp.).
Several former and present-
day racehorses figured in the
Sydney Show prize-list. Norman
Fraser’s Aboukir, a handsome
individual and a brilliant sprinter,
carried off the champion-stallion
ribbon, with Achilles reserve-
champion. Aboukir was judged
the best thoroughbred exhibit.
One of Frank Dalton’s Randwick
team, Aboukir is a three-year-
old colt by imported Gold Nib
from Egyptian Rose.
Coleridge, a top-class per-
former in New Zealand, has this
season won £10,390, his latest
success being in the £5lOO Easter
Handicap at Auckland. He won
the mile in record time, 1.35 f,
cutting a fraction from Kinder-
garten’s previous record. He
was ridden by Grenville Hughes,
who earlier in the day won the
Great Northern Oaks on Rare
Charm. Coleridge may be
among the New Zealanders in
Sydney and Melbourne next
spring.
Upwards of 550 yearlings have
yet to be auctioned at the Rand-
wick sales, which will be con-
tinued tomorrow (Thursday) and
on Friday, and will be concluded
on Monday. Early offerings on
Thursday will include several
Channel Swells and Bripistones
from Kia-Ora stud. Captain
A. Frauenfelder, of Woodville
stud, Tamworth, will submit
another batch of Newtown
Pippins, and Morrie Point has a
number by Royal Empire (imp.).
Puen Buen stud has five Jambos.
The only Gold Nib (imp.) year-
ling listed will be paraded by
Kooba stud. She is a filly from
Credible (imp.) by Scottish
Union.
“P.0.M.C.”: Devon Loch’s
fall near the winning-post in the
English Grand National when he
had it won for the Queen
Mother recalls a like incident at
Randwick some 30 years ago.
Hot favorite and about the safest
’chaser in training, Blue had out-
distanced the steeple field over
the last fence, but slipped and fell
in the straight. Earlier in his
career, Blue had bgen ridden by
the then Prince of Wales during
Teddy’s tour of Australia in
1920.
* * *
Compensating in some
measure for the ill-fortune his
trainer has had, New Zealander
Caduceus (trained and driven at
his last five starts by Sydney
reinsman Jack Watts) swept with
a superlative sprint to hit the
front in last Thursday’s £5OOO
Lord Mayor’s Cup; once there,
he fought off challenges for a
game length-and-a-half win. If
ever the term “ball of muscle”
described a horse, it does this
fellow ; he’s the smoothest little
pacing-machine you’d wish to
see. A rich bay, like many of the
U. Scotts, he’s a demure little
fellow until he sets-off in the
precise but effortless gait of the
champion pacer. The run was
his .last before the homeward
trip. Westralian Frosty Nelson
ran a very creditable second;
he’s one of the best pacers in
the country; General Grattan,
an Enzedder, battled on for third.
Secret Spring may well have
led them a merry dance from the
front line in the Inter-Dominion
had he not come under the
ballot-axe. On the night he
missed the ballot he beat into
minor placings under free-for-
all conditions two horses that
became Inter-Dominion finalists.
Since then he has tallied four on
end, the last the £2500 final of
the Easter Handicap on Thurs-
day night. Giving 24yds. to a
good-’un in Blanche’s Best, he
was forced to do it hard all the
way, managing to nose Blanche’s
Best in the last few strides with
the game last effort of a cham-
pion—aided by a smart do-or-die
drive by leading reinsman Alf
Phillis. Secret Spring is by
Springfield Globe from a mare
named Seta; her offspring now
bring a price in the yearling-ring
on her merit. She is by Pron-
telmo, from a mare by Fiying
Bells, from Sunbeam, by Huon
Jnr.
+ +
“Mid-on”: Don’t take too
much notice of the poor show-
ings of some of the Australian
XI batsmen in Tasmania and
W.A. Understandably, with a
heavy season in England ahead,
the tourers’ approach to the
games would be more light-
hearted than the local boys’—
to some of whom, particularly
one or two of the Westralians,
the games were important try-
outs for their future. Time
enough for serious cricket for
Johnson and Co. And, after all,
they were picked to play (and
try their hardest to defeat)
England, not Tasmania and
W.A.
Sturt batsman Jack Giles,
who’s been picked once or twice
for S.A., recently took his dis-
trict-cricket aggregate past 4000.
Giles is one of four to skipper
Sturt in both cricket and football.
The other three are former Aus-
tralian cricket captain Vic
Richardson, “Beau” Morton and
present Australian wicketkeeper
Gil Langley.
A few weeks back Les Favell,
in making 196 for East Torrens
against Glenelg, reached 100 in
117 min., then the fastest Century
in Adelaide district cricket this
season just past. Soon afterwards
State captain Phil Ridings, hitting
160 for West Torrens v. Ken-
sington, got to his 100 in 113
min. -The record finally passed
to Glenelg batsman Con Ken-
neally, who took only 76min. —
though 45 out of his 100 were
singles!
* * *
Two State decathlons were
recently decided, N.S.W. and
Victorian (the decathlon con-
sists of 10 events, 100-, 400- and
1500-metre broad- and
high-jump, shot-put, javelin- and
discus-throw, 110-metres hurdles
and pole-vault). The N.S.W.
affair was won by 18-year-old
John Cann, from hurdler Geoff
Goodacre, who’d won it in five
previous years but had entered
this year more to help Cann,
whom he’d coached. In Mel-
bourne, South Australian lan
Bruce, who holds the Australian
decathlon record (5963 points),
was leading easily when he had
to withdraw with a dislocated
collarbone, acquired when he
crash-landed from the high-
jump ; and Australian javelin
champion, Victorian Bob Grant,
went on to win. Grant, however,
found the going very tough, and
has said “Never again!”
» * *
“K.R.”: It’s hard enough keep-
ing tab of all these new swim-
ming records being set one week
and broken the next. It’ll be even
harder if a lad who made a new
breaststroke record at a tech-
nical-schools swimming - carni-
val in Melbourne carries on the
habit into the big-times—when
he’s got a name like Bob Tsitism-
binis!
* * *
“Maros”: Former South Fre-
mantle champion goalkicker
Bernie Naylor, who in 1953 set
a record Perth figure of 167 goals
for a season and who, when he
retired at the end of 1954, had
kicked 1034 goals in his league
career in Perth, has earned a
new distinction. He’s the first
player issued with a life-pass “for
services rendered” by the W.A.
National Football League. The
N.F.L.’s ruling that games played
before April, 1947, don’t count
in eligibility must debar many
oldsters from their deserts.
* * *
Granville (Sydney) Soccer
inside-left Ken Vairy has decided
to retire, because of a bad knee
which has hindered him for
several years. He’s the chap who,
playing in only one Test—
against South Africa last year-
scored the one goal netted by an
Australian in the series (against
23 by the visitors, who won all
five Tests).
* * *
“Sam”: Eastwood Rugby
Union Club (Sydney) may have
a Ist XV this seasoft composed
mainly of schoolmasters and ex-
Springboks. In a trial-match
against Parramatta eight school-
teachers and four South Africans
tried-out for the side. Don
Westley, Eastwood’s skipper last
year, and captain in the trial,
is a schoolmaster. Of the other
seven, Barry Fullager, John Bart
and Jim Thompson also played
for Eastwood last year; Bart
won inter-State honors. The
four newcomer pedagogues are
George Gray (transferred from
Wagga), Colin Thomson (from
Bathurst), Don Edmunds (Jervis
Bay) and Bruce Lukins. The
four South Africans all come
from Paal Club, playing in the
Western Province (Cape Colony)
competition. They are prop-
forward Tom Robertson, lock
Thys Roux, centre Dan Maupt-
fleisch and five-eighth Tom
Brink.
* * *
Melbourne in November will
have what is regarded as the
biggest golf tournament ever
staged in the British Empire—
the Ampol. Prizemoney totals
£lO,OOO, with half going to the
winner.
Peter Thomson and Norman
von Nida are to represent Aus-
tralia in this year’s Canada Cup.
In recent years Thomson has
been partnered by Kel Nagle—
they won the title in 1954 and,
with the Von, Thomson should
go close to winning again.
* * *
“Yabba”: A feature of
present-day Australian sport is
its variety. Many of the
thousands who roar their lungs
out on Saturday afternoon have
their own tennis, bowls or what-
have-you during the other 40 or
so hours of the weekend. There
are many what-have-yous —sport
satellites to the Davis Cups,
Spring Handicaps and football-
finals. Hockey, lacrosse, water-
skiing, polo, badminton, polo-
crosse, basketball ... an endless
string—all enjoying a popularity
of their own. Quite a lot of
players take part in more than
one sport; in fact, we’re getting
to the point where one of these
days results of an Australia-
England Rugby Test will be
broadcast during a Melbourne
Aussie Rules final.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LOUIS MAX CHRISTIAN DOSS for-
merly of Uranquinty.—TAKE NOTICE
that MURIEL MORTIMER DOSS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4283 of
1955 on the grounds of desertion ■with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Sydney on or
before the 6th day of June 1956 A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be
obtained free of charge from GEOFFREY
SEE, GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, of 18-20
Martin Place, Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN,
Deputy Registrar.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in the British Colony of Hong , Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
"Luxuriously Better
A Sports Coat with personality
CLOTHES
Stamina Sports Coats seem to be tailored
just for you. They fit so well —so neatly
and comfortably. They look so smart . . .
so luxuriously smart the kind of neat,
crisp styling that gives you a “lift.”
Stamina’s “ All Purpose ” Sports Coats
have a personality of their own a look
of sparkling smartness, plus quality in the
styling, cutting, making and materials.
For Stamina clothes are made from the
famous, wear-resistant “ Crusader ” cloth,
woven from pure Australian Merino wool,
guaranteed to give years of hard wear, and
guaranteed never to fade or shrink.
For perfect fit, perfect comfort for a
sports coat with personality , you just can’t
beat Stamina.
Stamina
Sports Coats
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
5.C.5.113
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of the verse “The Bush-
ranger’s Wife.”—62BB.
To buy copy of The Squatting Age
in Australia, 1835-1847, by Stephen
H. Roberts; published in Melbourne
in 1935.—6287.
Does Anybody Know?
Anything of a Captain Hammond,
who was on Darnley Island (in Torres
Strait) in 1905?
Information Sought
Information on the French revolu-
tionary Fouquier-Tinville ?
Born in 1746, he is notorious as the
Public Prosecutor to the Revolutionary
Tribunal of Paris (March 10, 1793, to
July 28, 1794) during the Terror. His
function was not so much to convict
the guilty as to see that the proscrip-
tions ordered by the faction in power
were enforced with due regard to a
show of legality. He was as ruthless
and as incorruptible as Robespierre
himself. (Guillotined with Danton in
April, 1794, was Camille Desmoulins,
a relative wf Fouquier-Tinville’s, who
had helped to secure his advancement;
yet Fouquier was relentless in his
attack on him.) He could be moved
from his purpose neither by 1 pity nor
by bribe; his passionless detachment
made him an effective instrument of
the Terror. Hilaire Belloc, in his
Marie Antoinette, has described him
as “a hired politician covered with
the politician’s outer mask of firm-
ness. A genuine poverty and a poli-
tician’s hunger for a salary had been
satisfied by the post of Public Prose-
cutor. He earned that salary with
zeal and with little discernment, and
therefore, when the time came, he
also was condemned to die.” The
time came with the fall of Robespierre
(July, 1794); on Aug. 1, 1794, he was
imprisoned by order of the National
Convention and, after a trial lasting
for 41 days, he was condemned to
death and guillotined (May 7, 1795).
* * * *
(1) Some recent figures on the
white population of the Northern
Territory ? (2) Has the white popula-
tion been increasing? (3) How many
are employed ?
(1) and (2) At the 1954 census the
white population totalled 16,469
(10,288 males, 6181 females). This was
an increase from 10,868 (7378 males,
3490 females) on the 1947 census-
figures. Persons under 21 numbered
5562 (3362 in 1947), those from 21 to
49 8852 (5900) and those over 50
2055 (1606). Of the total white popu-
lation, those born in Australia
numbered 13,497, compared with
9502 in 1947 ; Europeans numbered
2972, compared with 1366 in 1947.
(Of the 2972, two-thirds were British
subjects). (3) Total number employed
(1954 census) was 9163—7680 males
and 1483 females. Largest groups
were public-service and professional
activities, 2722 (30 per cent.), building
and construction, 1281 (14 per cent.),
and primary-production, 1177 (13 per
cent.).
* * * «
Some information on the Oxford-
Cambridge boat-race?
This year’s race, won by Cambridge,
was the 102nd ; Cambridge has now
won 56 and Oxford 45, and in 1877
the crews dead-heated. The first race
was in 1829, the idea of Charles
Wordsworth (a nephew of the poet),
who in 1827 had started Oxford-
Cambridge cricket-matches ; it was
not a regular yearly affair at first. The
present course, from Putney to Mort-
lake, (approx. miles), was estab-
lished as the recognised course in
1857 ; previously the course had
varied, sometimes Westminster-Put-
ney, sometimes Mortlake-Putney, with
the first race held at Henley. Races
have been held in all weathers ; in
1951, in rough water and strong
wind, the Oxford boat sank and the
umpire called “No race”—Cambridge
won the re-row a couple of days later.
In 1948 Cambridge set the course-
record, 17min. 50sec. Oxford this
year had three Australians in the
crew, McLeod and Vine, both of
Whom were rowing in their third
race, and Carnegie, who at 13st. 91b.
was one of the heaviest oarsmen ever
to row in the event.
• * * *
Some simple details on the manu-
facture of cord from sisal-hemp ?
Sisal is a structural fibre manufac-
tured solely from the leaves of Agave
sisalana, a native of Mexico and
bordering countries. The fibre is too
thick and coarse to be spun into a
yarn, except for the coarsest type of
sacking and for twines, ropes and
cords not intended for use in salt-
water. Time for cutting of the sisal
is indicated by the angle at which the
leaves lie to the ground; 45degs. is
usually taken as the optimum. The
leaf is cut by hand, close to the
ground'. Then, by a process known
as “decortication,” about 95 per cent,
of the leaf is removed in the separa-
tion of the workable fibres. It is a
machine-operation, during which the
leaf-epidermis and jpulp are scraped
off, the debris at the same time being
washed clear of the fibres. The
separated fibres are then dried —left
either in lines in the sun or in drying-
rooms. Next they are brushed, the
purpose Jbeing to straighten them and
impart a sheen. A machine consist-
ing of metal beaters turned on a drum
is used, a “hank” of fibres passing
backwards and forwards over the
beaters. Then the fibres sorted
according to length follows the
spinning. Here fibres are spun into a
yarn, with a varying number of twists
per inch; it is this yarn which is used
for the manufacture of cordage. In
the manufacture of twines, cord or
ropes, two or more yarns are used.
If two are used, the cord is known
as two-ply; if three, three-ply, etc.
The yarns are twisted mechanically
by two methods of twist—cable-twist
and hawser-twist. In cable-twist,
each alternate twist is in the direction
opposite that of the preceding twist.
If, for example, the yarn has a right-
hand twist, the first-ply twist is left-
handed and the second-ply twist is
right-handed (two-ply cordage). In
the hawser-twist, the yarn-twist and
the first-ply twist are in the same
direction, and the second-ply twist is
in the opposite direction; i.e.,
right—-right—left, or left—left—right
(two-ply cordage).
* * t
(1) Some information on the career
of English novelist Marie Corelli ?
(2) How did she rank among writers
of her day?
(1) Marie Corelli (1864-1924), the
illegitimate daughter of an Italian
father and Scotch mother, spent the
early years of her life in the family
of a Marylebone laborer named
Cody; she was later adopted by
journalist and song-writer Charles
Mackay. At Mackay’s death his son
Eric became her legal guardian and
sent her to a French convent, where
her early flair for music—she had
composed various pieces while still a
girl—was nurtured. Editors who had
been friends of her father having
published some of her early verse
she returned to England, where, in
1886, she published her first novel,
The Romance of Two Worlds, an
immediate best-seller. She followed-
up with, as one critic saw it, “a
series of melodramatic romantic
novels, original in some aspects of
their treatment, daring in others, but
all combining a readable plot with
enough au fond of what the majority
demanded in ethical and religious
correctness to suit a widespread con-
temporary taste”— Vendetta, Thelma,
Ardath, The Soul of Lilith, Bar abbas,
The Sorrows of Satan, The Mighty
Atom, The Master Christian,
Temporal Power. Among her other
chief novels were Holy Orders, The
Life Everlasting, Eyes of the Sea and
The Secret Power. She never
altogether abandoned her music, and
was quite proficient on the banjo and
mandolin. A love for flowers and a
taste for collecting old books helped
occupy lighter hours. (2) To rate
Marie Corelli as a writer of her
period resolves almost into an
adjudication on the reactions to her
work of, on the one hand, the public
and, on the other, the critics. Her
books all sold tremendously well,
and, despite the claims of critics that
she wrote only sensationalism in bad
style, she had a style which, with
her vigorous and dramatic plots and
her integrity, appealed greatly to the
conventional reader. Her reaction to
the jibes of the critics was to let it
be known that none of her books
was sent for review. Her work, how-
ever, cannot be judged by purely
literary standards, but can be
appraised for the literary energy and
journalistic resource it revealed.
Brief Answers
R.C.: Further on artist Robert
Camm: The Adelaide Gallery has
one of his paintings (17iin. x 29jdn.),
purchased in 1898 for £5O ; its insur-
ance-value has been written-down to
£5. Camm, born in England in 1847,
came to Australia in 1853 and studied
at the Melbourne National Gallery
School under Eugene von Guerard
and, later, J, H. Scheltema.. .A.H.R.:
Write W. H. Paling and Co., Ltd.,
Box 1606, G.P.0., Sydney H.L.:
They would be obliged by law to keep
the accounts, but not necessarily to
furnish them —though they usually do.
They can be made available to any
residuary company on payment of a
fee 0.H.5.: Your best chance now
would probably be through the
secondhand - bookshops T.M.:
Write the Town Clerk, Council of the
City of Parramatta, Box 32, Parra-
matta C.R.M.: Where death
occurred subsequent to October 28,
there is no liability to duty if (a) the
estate passes wholly to the widow,
widower, children or grandchildren,
and does not exceed £5OOO ; or (£)
the estate passes to any other persons
and does not exceed £2500 P.P.:
(1) No information other than
“yulang,” a cave, and “beenup,”
digging-place. (2) Probably a re-
phrasing of the “Barkinji,” the name
of a tribe that once inhabited the
area.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.C.: We’ll leave that pub where
it stands P.R.A.: Ah, well, he’ll
get over it, we hope L.C.C.: It
seldom was worth while —the morn-
ing after M.L.S.: Don’t tell us
that the breezes are still sighing
tenderly through the trees
J.McA.: Referred to the Egg
Board: —
Eggs are up another few pence—
I don’t see that it makes much sense,
Since the hens don’t get extra pay
For all the eggs that they lay.
J.C.C.: Like the character in
the poem “it faded, and it faded, and
it faded out of sight” C.F.R. :
Your “Modern Nursery Rhymes” fell
flat K.A.: Away with your"
“harshly 'protesting, purgatorial
screams” W.H.M.: “April
Showers” no different from the dozen
or more “April Showers” poems now
arriving every week F.R.: Not
tumbling over ourselves to buy “Cry
of an' Unwanted Babe Left on a
Vestry Doorstep” L.C.: “No
more I’ll go a-roaming along an old
bush-track.” Thank heaven!
M.W.S.: Patiently read your long
covering-letter regarding your status
as a poet, merely to be greeted with
the following:—
I strain in vain
And drain my brain,
Making up rhymes
About sweet chimes;
But I’m rejected
And made dejected
By vile editors’ curses
Against my precious verses.
R.C.F.: Idea lost in a fog of
words C.J.: Regret cannot share
your opinion of yourself as a poet.
....G.M.K.: That unspeakable old
club-bore once more? L.J.:
Sozzled mariner and his puritanical
girl-friend are 50 fathoms below
print-level... .A.W.E.: Room for a
fragment of the orchard epic:
Fall, fall, the peaches fall,
Dropping near the garden wall.
Alas ' for endeavor,
Legacy-that-came-too-late
y arn arrives too often... .R.J.A.:
One couplet will be sufficient:
Plonk he dearly and bought, he
Died of alcoholism before he was forty.
W.R.: Drop the obsolete and use
current English and you might be all
right H.R.P.: You should have
decided beforehand whether you
were going to write a story or a
sermon M.L.M.: Sorry to hear
you have the “wanted thirst.” It
has been the ruination of many good
poets... .C.K.: Much too bumpy....
J.W.H.: Happy to take your word
for it that, with the ghosts of old
hatters, the “gullies dost sumptuously
teem” D.M.D.: That’s one camp-
fire we don’t want to warm our feet
at 8.A.J.: You have a queer
notion of what constitutes a poem.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.O* SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ...
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £3/10/-
J Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Now you can FORGET yow
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful b}
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE distribution CO.
(Dept. 3j), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000. _
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest wtes.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisban
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
j HITCHCOCK, Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIDDLE EAST POLICY?
TOUCHED-OFF by events in
Cyprus and Jordan, British
press-criticism of the U.K. Gov-
ernment’s Middle East policy has
been notably trenchant and, if
“a show of firmness” is a com-
mon press-prescription for many
kinds‘of international difficulties,
the recommendations are this
time unusually emphatic.
London “Time and Tide,” for
long a strong critic of the gradual
British withdrawal from the
Middle East, holds that “the
danger which is now imminent
has been bleakly obvious to
people and newspapers that over
the years past have attacked the
Middle East policy of successive
Governments, Labor and Con-
servative” : _
“Seldom has a sustained com-
paign of criticism on a specific
major issue been more amply
vindicated. Mr. Julian Amery
summed the whole issue up in
two paragraphs of a letter to
‘The Times’:
“ ‘The dismissal of General
Glubb from the command of the
British-paid Arab Legion and the
stoning of the Foreign Secretary
in the British Protectorate of
Bahrain attest the bankruptcy of
the policy of appeasement in the
Middle East. These are the in-
eluctable consequences of the
retreats from Palestine, Abadan,
the Sudan and the Suez Canal
Zone.
“ ‘We are now very close to
the final disaster. The challenge
to our influence in Jordan and on
the Persian Gulf, if left un-
checked, must lead to the break-
up of the Baghdad Pact. Our
oil-supplies, without which we
cannot live, would then be in
immediate danger: our com-
munications with other Com-
monwealth countries would be
threatened; * and all Africa
would be opened to Communist
advance.’
“We [“Time and Tide”! agree
with every word. At successive
points in the long line of retreat
the ultimate danger has been
especially obvious —as it is now
—but it has always been
apparent. In our opinion, the
worst possible outcome of the
Jordan crisis would be a con-
tinuation of vacillation and
appeasement.
“The tragedy of the pi;esent
situation, no less sharp than its
_ irony, is that it is in Cyprus that
’ the long long trail of retreat has
to end.
“This is the culmination of
years of mishandling; but to
realise this fact is not to make
it more palatable. All the
pundits, military as well as dip-
lomatic, now say that the island
which throughout World War II
was held by a force of brigade-
strength is an utterly indispens-
able bastion of Western defence.
“The truth is, of course, that
there is no other bastion. The
sands and the looters eat up the
Suez Canal Base; the coastal
strip of what was Palestine,
which, with Haifa as its port,
was capable of being developed
into a major base, is now the
homeland of the besieged people
of Israel; the Middle East map
is bespattered with famous
former bastions defended and
held by British soldiers,
abandoned by politicians. It
seems that Cyprus only is left.
“What Western spokesmen,
who have talked loftily about
dealing with ‘aggression’ in the
Arab-Israel dispute, have ignored
is the fact that aggression has two
different meanings in this con-
text. The most extreme activist
in Israel desires, at the utmost,
to obtain control of the Pales-
London “Daily Mirror"
MIRAGE
tinian hill-country that was
ancient Judea and Samaria.
Every leading politician of every
ond of the seven Arab nations
has solemnly declared his
country’s and his own intention
of wiping Israel out of existence.
That is the difference which,
amongst other matters even more
important, our Western states-
men must belatedly grapple
with.”
* * *
Other press comment:
London “Spectator”: “The dis-
missal by the Jordan Govern-
ment of Glubb Pasha and other
British officers of the Arab
Legion is a slap, in the face for
British policy. Jordan is the
oldest ally of this country in the
Middle East: it was created by
Great Britain and its Hashemite
dynasty placed on the throne
with the support of British arms
and money.
“It is now apparent that no
reliance can be placed on agree-
ments concluded with Arab
States in their present exacer-
bated mood. The Arabs are
angry with the West because of
past and present Western pre-
ponderance over Islamic States:
they are angry with Israel be-
cause she is a Western State and
because she has defeated and
humiliated them ; they are angry
with the West because they
regard Britain as responsible for
the creation of Israel, and
America as responsible for its
continued existence.
“It is, therefore, no use relying
on the ageing, moderate states-
men, who in so many Arab lands
have been the tried friends of
this country [Britain]. At the
moment, as was shown in Jordan,
any hint of British support is
likely to be the immediate cause
of their overthrow by the dark,
undiplomatic tides from beneath
the surface. And those tides, for
the present and for some time to
come, are bound to run strongly
against the West. The only effect
of even the most far-reaching
military agreement with an Arab
State would be to separate its
rulers from their own public
opinion. And the recent Russian
intervention in the Middle East
ensures that such a situation
would quickly develop to our
disadvantage.
“However, it is ho use crying
over spilt milk. The shock of
events in Jordan would be
salutary if it produced a deter-
mination to reconsider British
Middle Eastern policy. For in-
stance, it is clear that the tempta-
tion to Israel to embark on a
preventive war has been very
greatly increased. She is now
faced by a Jordan implacably
aligned with the other Arab
States and whose Army, owing
to the withdrawal of British
officers, is going to be consider-
ably disorganised in the immedi-
ate future.
“It is obviously to Israel’s
interest not to wait until Czech
arms reach Jordan, too. The only
way to stop this is for Britain
and America to give her the
assurances she desires and
enough arms to defend herself.
If necessary, the West should be
prepared to go as far as a treaty
of mutual defence, and to con-
clude such a treaty would be
to base a more realistic policy
on the only stable State in the
Levant.
“What is wanted in the Middle
East is not the strong-arm
methods of a Cromer nor Sir
Anthony Eden’s almost mystical
faith in conferences. What is
wanted is a realistic appraisal of
our friends and potential
enemies ; support of the former,
and a tactful, conciliatory but
dignified attitude towards the
latter. We cannot race the Soviet
Union in offering arms or money
to the Arabs. Now we are faced
with our own agonising re-
appraisal of foreign policy in an
area where we once held com-
plete sway. This is painful
enough, but it will be doubly un-
pleasant if the Government
proves itself only able to look
at the Middle East through the
dark glasses so far provided by
the appropriate department, of
the Foreign Office.’’
* * *
London “Economist”: “The.
Russian return to the fray has
made the conditions of Western
policy in the Middle East more
difficult. Temporarily, Moscow
seems to have reduced London
and Washington to stammering
uncertainty—a phase which, if
it were to last, would lose them
their remaining friends in the
area. But it need not last.
“Political life in the Middle
East has escaped from Western
control. Where the Western
Powers were accustomed to
control, they have now to learn
to compete. Competition is an
aspect of coexistence; but
perhaps coexistence between
the world-groups of Powers, and
among the Middle Eastern States
themselves —is the best they can
hope for. Certainly a state of
genuine coexistence between Irak
and Egypt and between the
Arabs and the Jews is the first
goal.”
>s * *
London “Financial Times”:
“The main point that Mr.
Nutting, the [U.K.] Minister of
State for Foreign Affairs, made
in his opening speech in the
Middle East debate was that
British policy continued to stand
firmly by the Baghdad Pact and
the Tripartite Declaration [the
U.S.-U.K.-French guarantee of
the Israel-Jordan border]. How-
ever much the British position in
the Middle East may appear to
have been shaken, such a fact
clearly needs re-emphasising in
order to demonstrate that the
situation is by no means one of
unrelieved gloom. British links
remain unbroken with Irak and
Persia and with the Persian Gulf
.States.
“There can be little doubt that
these links will be the next to be
tested, and in an area where
strength is appreciated more than
other qualities it is to our interest
that further efforts to undermine
the existing pact should be firmly
resisted, if only because a change
of policy at this stage would be
regarded as a sign of weakness
rather than strength.”
** . *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“What, in fact, are the Western
Powers going to do to stop a war
between/ Israel and the Arab
countries? We are, repeated Mr.
Nutting, ‘consulting with our
allies.’ This we have surely been
doing for a long time, and more
intensively since the Washington
meeting; yet we have been
caught unprepared. While he
[Nutting] was asking the House
not to expect drastic new
decisions immediately, the United
States gave some indications of
what these should be by the
announcement that reinforce-
ments of American Marines are
being sent to the Eastern Medi-
terranean.
“The Tripartite Declaration
seems at last to be cutting its
milk-teeth; wisdom-teeth must
follow quickly. The American
Sixth Fleet, together with our
own air- and ground-forces
based on Cyprus—besides those
already in Jordan and remaining
in the Canal Zone —furnish a
nucleus' of preventive forces.
What is needed is a clear declara-
tion that they will be used if
either side attempts aggression in
Palestine.”
Austrian Neutrality
In the agreement by which the
four occupying Powers with-
drew from Austria last year the
main Russian requirement was
a guarantee of Austria’s “per-
petual neutrality.”
Since then, “Manchester
Guardian” notes, the question
eagerly debated in Austria has
been “whether neutrality means
simply abstention from joining
military alliances or also absten-
tion from membership of
political associations, and from
expression of political sym-
pathies.”
Two moves noted by London
“Economist” as indicating that
Austria interprets its neutrality
as a military affair “have brought
down Russian disapproval upon
its head”:
“Herr Helmer, the Minister of
the Interior and a Socialist with
long experience of dealings with
Communists, some weeks ago
ordered the Secretariat of the
Communist World Federation of
Trade Unions to leave Austrian
soil, and confiscated a number
of documents from its Vienna
headquarters.
“The second move which has
aroused ‘unofficial’ Soviet ire is
the Austrian Government’s appli-
cation to join the Council of
Europe. The Austrians have
shown by their actions that,
while they are determined to
maintain strict military
neutrality, they are in every
other way part of the free
Western world.”
The Austrian elections, set for
May 13, are regarded as a further
pointer to Austrian feeling—
and the result, “New York
Times” comments, could have an
important political and psycho-
logical effect on all Europe:
“The election will provide a
first test of the efficacy of Mos-
cow’s new party-line calling for
a ‘united front’ between Com-
munists and Socialists. The
Communist party in Austria
commands barely 5 per cent, of
the total vote, and the Austrian
Socialists have repudiated any
Communist support. But the
two ruling parties are so
evenly matched that if the Com-
munists follow Moscow and
throw their unwanted support


5i Per Cent, for 5 Years
Makes your £lOOO grow into £1262/107-
IN THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£55-% LOAN
New, higher interest and principal are unconditionally guaranteed by the
N.S.W. Government
See how your money grows in 5 or 20 years!
© OPTIONAL TERM. You can invest for either sor 20 years at this new, highly
profitable rate of £5/5/- per cent, per annum.
• YOUR INTEREST is payable half-yearly, and can be credited direct to your bank account.
© FREE OF EXCHANGE. Subscriptions, interest and repayment of principal at maturity
are free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
© TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. Superannuation, Provident, Church and Club funds can
also earn £5/5/- per cent. The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
• INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED. If you wish, you can pay a 10% deposit today and
the balance by 31st July, 1956.
© INVESTMENT TAKES ONLY MINUTES at any Commonwealth Trading Bank. You
can also apply through a Stockbroker or at the Sydney Water Board Office.
© APPLY TODAY. As the Board cannot retain over-subscriptions, early application is
essential to secure your allotment.
Loan No. 145 will dose on or before 23rd April, 1956, and is underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
to the Socialists they could
assure a Socialist victory that
might provide a model for like
manoeuvres in other countries,
including Germany.
“The other factor is that the
election will decide whether
Austria is to be primarily a
Socialist country with a largely
nationalised and planned
economy, as demanded by the
Socialists, or a private-enter-
prise State, as demanded by the
Conservatives.”
German Defence-costs
When the Finance Minister of
West Germany lately announced
that his Government would no
longed contribute towards the
maintenance of British,
American and French troops on
German soil he was strongly
criticised by the Allies on the
ground that, since German
rearmament had barely started
and would take a considerable
time, it was only fair that his
country should contribute to the
upkeep of the “foreign” troops
which were defending it in the
meantime.
Chancellor Adenauer’s subse-
quent announcement that he is
willing to negotiate on the matter
is described as “his characteristic
reasonableness” by New York
“Herald Tribune,” which adds
that “the Western Big Three
believe that Germany is quite
prosperous enough to pull its full
weight in joint-defence. Accord-
ing to report of the Bank
Deutscher Laender, West Ger-
many reinvested 23 per cent, of
its gross national product in
1955, which was a proportion
greater than that of any other
capitalist country.
“Great Britain, on the other
hand, is in financial straits and
might have to withdraw part of
its forces from West Germany if
burdened with the additional out-
lay of $196 million that would
be entailed. Nor would the
United States relish having an
additional $3OO million added to
its Budget.
“The fact that Chancellor
Adenauer is now willing to talk
things over is a welcome develop-
ment, for it will clear the air
among nations that can ill afford
any disagreements.”
Trade with the Soviet?
When some of the Western
countries relaxed controls on
trade with the Soviet bloc in
1954 it was hoped, particularly
in business-circles, that vast mar-
kets would be opened-up in the
Communist countries.
That hasn’t happened, and a
report on Communist trade by
the U.S. Government’s foreign-
aid administrator, John B. Hol-
lister, suggests that it is unlikely
to happen.
Commenting on Hollister’s
report, “U.S. News and World
Report” says that “it shows that
the Communists want a few
things that the non-Communist
countries are not keen on letting
them have”:
“They do not want many of
the things the rest of ..the world
is most anxious to sell them:
textiles, clothing, appliances,
How to conquer
frustration
To be alive is to have a goal
and pursue it —anything from
cleaning, the house, or planning
a vacation, to saving money for
retirement. When something or
someone blocks the goal, we
feel pent-up and thwarted.
Result: we often work off these
feelings by lashing out at
someone else.
In April Readers Digest,
Stuart Chase tells how, if you
are aware of what frustration
does to you or the other fellow,
you can save yourself needless
pain and trouble.
Get April Reader’s Digest at
your news-stand today: a wealth
of articles of lasting interest,
including the best from current
books and leading magazines
condensed to save your time,
only 2/-. Get your copy today.
machinery for light-industries,
and farm-commodities.
“There are one or two excep-
tions, such as grain and dairy-
products, where the Communists
feel a temporary need. But,
generally, the policy of th|e
Soviet bloc is to hold down trade
with its capitalist competitors,
not increase it.
“Here is what the record
shows:
“In August, 1954, the United
States and other countries that
control the flow of strategic
goods to the Communists re-
duced these controls greatly.
“This was done largely be-
cause businessmen and officials
in a number of countries were
convinced that if controls were
removed from some items the
Communists would not only buy
more of them but would also
buy other things. Communist
traders had talked vaguely about
large amounts of consumer-
goods.
“Now, as the figures on trade
for 1955 are being compiled, it
is found that the Communists
bought fewer of these consumer-
goods, but seized the chance to
buy some things that had been
denied them, things they find
helpful in building up their
industry and armed forces.
“The Russians did a complete
about-face. In 1954, when they
were getting the non-Communist
countries to relax controls, they
stepped-up their purchases. They
bought more than they sold.
They paid for a large amount of
what they bought with gold.
“In 1955, after the controls
were relaxed, Russian buying
fell olf, while Russian sales to
non-Communist customers in-
creased.
“However, the Russians did
step-up their buying of several
important items, such as copper-
wire and -cable, ships and
machinery for making petroleum
and chemical-products.
“As a market for goods from
non-Communist industry, Russia
ranks No. 29, far behind such
small countries as the Nether-
lands and Denmark.
“So, the Government study
finds: ‘Much has been said by
Soviet Union spokesmen about
their willingness to tradp with
free-world countries. They have
consistently pictured the Soviet
Union as a cornucopia of allur-
ing products and enticing mar-
kets. This horn-of-plenty, un-
fortunately, has been only a
loud-speaker.’
“Trade with the rest of the
Communist countries turns out
to be not much more promising.
“In 1954, the Soviet bloc,
including Communist China,
took a little less than $ 1800-
million-worth of goods from the
rest of the world. The following
year, after controls were relaxed,
Communist spending increased
about 8 per cent., to about
$l9OO million.
“The foreign-aid chief re-
ports : ‘The bloc as a whole,
covering one-fourth the world’s
land-area and containing more
than one-third its population,
had in the first half of 1955 a
total trade outside its borders
comparable to that of Italy.
“The bloc contributed far less
to free-world trade than did the
Belgium-Luxembourg Economic
Union.’ ”
Atomic Navies
Noted here recently, the re-
markable performance of the
U.S. atdmic submarine Nautilus
has been impressive enough to
convince a meeting of American
admirals and the U.S. Joint
Congressional Committee on
Atomic Energy that Uncle Sam
should set about converting his
warships from oil to atomic fuel
immediately.
comments Houston
(U.S.A.) “Post,” “oil, which took
the place of coal, which in turn
had taken the place of sails,
finds itself about to be dis-
placed as the prime power-source
of the big ships”:
“Last December the Nautilus
completed a 23,000-mile cruise,
roughly the equivalent of a trip
around the world at the Equator.
It was the longest voyage ever
made without refuelling by a
fuel-powered vessel. The voy-
age of the Nautilus proved that
the United States Navy has been
freed from the logistics problem
of refuelling, that ocean-going
vessels now will be able to re-
main afloat indefinitely, as they
did in the days of sails.
“The conversion from oil to
atomic energy will not take place
overnight, and there is no reason
why it should. The important
thing is that this country [the
U.S.] has taken the lead.”
U.N.O., W.H.O., Etc.
London “Daily Mail,” brist-
ling at the suggestion by the
Organisation for European
Economic Co-operation that
British taxes may have to be in-
creased to curb spending:
“Are not Britons already more
highly taxed than almost any
other people?
“They are weighed down with
burdens including contribu-
tions to futile set-ups with magi-
cal initials like O. E. E. C.
(£300,000), U. N. E. S. C. O.
(£237,000), U.N.O. (£1,600,000),
E.C.S.C. (£45,000), F.A.O.
(£223,000), W.H.O. (£385,000),
and E<C.O.S.O.C. (£8500), to say
nothing of the British Council
(£1,750,000).
“Anyone would think that
money confiscated by the Gov-
ernment remains unspent.
Nothing of the sort. The Gov-
ernment is a prodigal spender.
“Ordinary people are far better
stewards of their own money.
Since they earn it they also
value it.
“If national solvency re-
quires the people to spend less
the Government’s policy should
not be to take their money away.
That only inhibits initiative. The
Government should devise ways
of spurring savings.”
Various Voices
Donald A. Quarles ( U.S .
Secretary of the Air Force):
“You do not defend against the
Russian tanks by building 10,000
more tanks. You set up a
Strategic Air Force that makes it
inadvisable for the Russians to
use their tanks, and, by exactly
the same token, you defend
against ballistic-missiles by set-
ting up a retaliatory force that
they do not care to challenge.”
H. W. L. Reddish (chairman
of Rugby Portland Cement Co.):
“You cannot buy the goodwill of
men and women working in a
business for cash. There is no
substitute for good human-rela-
tions, for a recognition of the
dignity of every individual.
Absenteeism will not be elimi-
nated by spending a lot of money
on a sportsground. A man who,
by going slow at the bench or
idling on a building-site, or in
any other way, fails to give of his
best while drawing full wages or
salary is morally indistin-
guishable from a thief who helps
himself to the pet.ty-cash.”
Mr. Nehru: “If planned wars
are ruled-out because the world
has reached, so to speak, a posi-
tion of political and military
saturation, in which there are no
really disputed areas left, so, too,
there is no room left for the
cold war, which is only a
prelude.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
A National Symbolism
Shouldn’t we be givitig our school-
children a ritual and a concrete symbolism
to associate with the nation and the Aus.-
tralian way of life? We have abandoned
anything which smacks of indoctrination
because it seems to run counter to the
freedom of thought inherent in our ideals
of democracy. We prefer, instead, to let
children absorb those abstract ideals by
living from day to day in a democratic
society.
The weakness of this is that children
do not readily arrive at abstractions. If
democracy is to be real to them, they
must see and do something that repre-
sents democracy.
At least one generation was made
aware that they were Australians by salut-
ing the flag on Empire Day, and by learn-
ing and singing such songs as Kipling’s
“Recessional,” “Land of Hope and
Glory” and the frankly jingoistic ditty
with the refrain “For the sake of the red,
white and blue.” Perhaps those are out-
of-date. If so, we need something to
take their place. Today, 15-year-olds
need a printed sheet to stumble through
the “Recessional” on Anzac Day, and for
most children even the National Anthem
at the Saturday-matinee is a beastly
nuisance.
As a simple matter of self-defence we
need some kind of ritual when other
countries are frankly indoctrinating their
youth with nationalism.
Very-infrequent Royal visits are not
enough. We need something real and
close at hand as a symbol, and we need
not feel guilty about reviving the old
rituals. Even in the U.S.A., a bastion of
democracy, children in primary school
are taught to regard their flag as next to
God, and they practise a daily ritual ex-
pressing their loyalty to the flag and to
the nation. — Pevin (Tas.).
Truth in Advertising
Where would “G.M.” draw the line be-
tween truth and falsehood in advertising
(B. 14/3/’56)? How can the validity of
statements be checked except by per-
sonal investigation? Most of the cases
quoted are exaggerations—though flag-
rant enough—of truths. The ethics of
advertising decree that we may make high
claims as to the quality of what we offer,
as long as we don’t tell outright lies or
mention competitors’ names and brands.
Advertisements of many products
would lack drive or vitality if the adver-
tiser stuck rigidly to unvarnished truths,
and the announcements would fail to
attract sufficient interest to do the selling-
job. Admittedly, superlatives such as
“best,” “greatest” and “most amazing”
have been worn threadbare, but the
advertisement which refuses to emphasise
some outstanding selling-point, and thus
challenge its rivals, has lost something.
The subject caused Dr. Johnson some
concern almost 200 years ago, when he
wrote: “The trade of advertising is now
so near to perfection that it is not easy
to propose any improvement, But as
every art ought to be exercised in true
subordination to the public good, I
cannot but propose it as a moral ques-
tion to these masters of the public ear,
whether they do not sometimes play too
wantonly with our passions—as when the
register of lottery-tickets invites us to his
shop by an account of the prizes which he
sold last year.”
It is for the public of today, as in 1759,
to judge to what extent the truth is being
exploited or embellished ; and the modern
public is, on the average, wide-awake to
the wiles of the ultra-smart advertiser. —-
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Dr. Coombs
Obviously, ' neither “C.8.M.” nor
“C.H.C.” (B. 7/3/’56) can support his
claim that Dr. Coombs is a Socialist.
He was initially appointed (1935) by
the United Australia (later Liberal) Gov-
ernment as assistant-economist to the
Commonwealth Bank. Later he became
economist to the Commonwealth Treasury
(1939) under Mr. Menzies. He did not
become governor of the C.B. until 1949,
by which time the Chifley Bank Nation-
alisation Act (1947) had failed. He was
reappointed by Mr. Menzies, not because
public servants aren’t changed they are
—but because, as an impartial expert, he
had done a difficult job well.
“C.H.C.” is also wrong about the
London School of Economics. It was
not founded in 1921, but in 1895 ; and it
was not founded by the Fabian Society.
To suggest that all graduates of the school
are “convinced Socialists” merely because
Professor H. J. Laski (who also lectured
at Cambridge, Yale and Havard) was in
charge of the course in political science
is ridiculous. Such is the quality of the
school’s work and teachers that it is
rightly recognised as one of the leading
university-schools —particularly for post-
graduate studies —in the British Empire.
There are over 20 different courses
available, including accountancy, anthro-
pology, economics, geography, history,
“Have you an appointment?”
law, psychology, public administration,
and statistics.
Among its teachers are such famous
names as R. G. D. Allen, T. S. Ashton,
E. H. Phelps Brown, Sir Arnold Plant,
L. Robbins, L. D. Stamp and A. J. Toyn-
bee. —R. A. Cotton (W.A.).
Graspers
“Dick Turpin’s” attack (B. 14/3/’56)
on the Commonwealth Public Service as
“the greatest single danger to our
economy” is part of a hardy-perennial
chorus.
Our “greatest single danger”—in fact,
the basic factor—is our national lack of
self-discipline, our eternal grasping for
more money and more leisure without
any thought of giving more in return.
People get the Government they deserve ;
and people always asking the Government
to do this and that are bound to get a
bigger and better bureaucracy to do the
work demanded of it. — Pee Bee (Q.).
Red China and U.N.
Few will dispute “Samzac’s” account
of the events which led to the seizure of
China by the Reds in 1949 (B. 14/3/’56),
but the question of whether or not the
Red regime should be universally re-
cognised and admitted to U.N. is defin-
itely debatable.
Whether we like its totalitarian regime
or not, there are certain fundamental
facts about China from which there is no
escape, and because of these facts China’s
impact on the world I—whether 1 —whether from in-
side or outside U.N. —will be a matter of
major importance for all of us very soon.
These facts are:
China is a huge country with about
600-million inhabitants.
This large mass of mankind is now
completely dominated and controlled by
ruthless, able men who rule through
terror and whose avowed aim is to make
the country industrially independent
within a decade. The total energy of this
“Ern's goin' t' give us a xylophone solo."
vast multitude is directed with this end in
view.
It is not possible, short of total nuclear
war, to bring about the downfall of this
Red regime from outside. Chiang Kai-
shek might have done it five years ago,
but it is now too late, without all-out
aid from the U.S.—which would bring
about total war, anyway.
Many important Asian countries have
declared their intention to remain neutral,
and many others, who live uncomfortably
near China, are terrified to make a stand,
one way or the other.
These unpleasant but inescapable facts
must be considered when deciding
whether Red China is to be admitted
into the international club known as U.N.
True, it is not qualified to be a member.
It is also true that the Chinese rulers have
slaughtered, not hundreds of thousands,
but millions of people in order to gain
complete control.
But it may well be that membership of
an association of civilised countries,
most of which practise the humanities and
respect the dignity of man, may soften
these toughs and improve their interna-
tional behavior. ’After all, they are the
pupils of past-masters of terrorism,
whose delegate takes his seat along with
satellites in the U.N. and also sits in the
Security Council as the delegate of a
Great Power.
Many people who favor admission
believe that China feels its ostracism
keenly and would be prepared to pay a
good price to U.N. without loss of face.
The alternative —continuing ostracism —
could be dangerous, especially if it had
the effect of uniting the people behind
their rulers. —R. J. K. (N.S.W.).
“Samzac” is off-track when he says that
the present regime in China was “put in
power by treachery of the Russians, and
not by the Chinese people.” This is a
too-common misunderstanding of Red
methods.
In 1945 Russia gave no recognition to
the Chinese Communists, and in 1946 a
treaty was effected between Russia and
Chiang Kahshek. The Nationalists col-
lapsed from'"their own weakness and cor-
ruption. Their main support was the
landlord-class, who, after the long years
in the wilderness during the Japanese
occupation, were out for their own
aggrandisement, entirely regardless of the
hopeless plight of the peasantry. In time
the Nationalists lost the confidence and
support of the masses, and the history of
China shows that whenever this happens
the regime is doomed.
The Communists offered the peasantry
land-reform and security. Their armies
were strictly disciplined and offered
friendship and protection, in contrast to
the predatory Nationalist soldiers. To
the illiterate peasant the menace of Com-
munist despotism in the vague future
was wholly incomprehensible. What he
did understand was the evidence before
his eyes—land-reforms and others imple-
mented by the Communists wherever
they gained control of territory.
Many of the people may now have re-
grets, but at the time they welcomed the
authority which gave them immediate
relief from threats of starvation and ex-
tortion. And to give the Chinese peasant
his own little piece of land was to make
a firm friend of him at once.
By such means the Communists
brought more and more territory under
their control, with the whole-hearted sup-
port and welcome of the Chinese pea-
sants. By similar means the Communists
will expand in South-East Asia in every
country which suffers the evils of Asiatic
landlordism —and it is the ruling landlord-
class in those countries which the Western
Powers are trying to uphold.
True, when the Russians observed the
growing strength of the Chinese Com-
munists they forgot the treaty with the
Nationalists and handed-over Japanese
equipment to the Communists. The
Chinese Reds also had a lot of American
equipment, brought over to them by
deserting Nationalist generals. There
was, however, little serious fighting ; the
Nationalists collapsed before the threat
of Red military-power. By October,
1949, the Reds had control of China, but
everywhere with the full support of the
Chinese lower-classes.
What has happened since is perhaps
best described by a Chinese saying cur-
rent m Hong Kong as early as 1949. It
was that the Communist policy was one
of “nod head, shake head, chop head”
—nodding approval and offering benefit
when striving for power; starting to say
“No” when consolidating; ruthless chop-
ping of heads when the Communist con-
trol was established.
The Communist technique is being
practised in the other South-East Asian
countries, where the offer of immediate
tangible benefit has more impact on the
underprivileged than an uncertain future.
This technique can be countered only by
giving the illiterate masses a clear under-
standing of the implications of the nod-
head, shake-head, chop-head policy. —
W. J. D. (Q.).
Prince’s Wharf
“Castry” could be right about Hobart’s
Prince’s Wharf (B. 14/3/’56), but the
Duke and Duchess of York arrived in
July, 1901, in the Ophir, not the Gothic. I
was there and saw them come ashore.
T. C. H. (N.S.W.).
Railway Deficits
The Victorian Railways are seeking
men, aged 20-30, as shunters. Experience
is unnecessary and £2O a week, or more, is
offered upon qualification. Training
would, presumably, not be a very long
business.
Twenty-pounds a week for a man of
20 or so is good pay for work that does
not call for a great degree of skill, and
there are other inducements. Uniforms
are provided, there is generous long-
service leave, and the men travel to
their work at half-fare.
As well as all that there is free rail-
travel on annual leave, not only within
Victoria but inter-State, too. This free
travel (to Cairns or Perth if a man feels
like it) is available to all Victorian rail-
way-employees, of whom there are many
thousands.
I don’t know that employees of such
concerns as the State Electricity Com-
mission get their current free, or at half-
rates, but clerks in banks are not per-
mitted to help themselves to the cash.
I read the advertisement for shunters
while on a railway journey to
Melbourne. When the ticket-checkers
came around I was the only passenger in
my compartment to produce an ordinary
ticket. All the others had vouchers or
passes of one sort or another; from
which I concluded that I was the sole
paying-passenger. It brought things home
with a jerk, and I understood why m>
ticket had cost so much.
If the Victorian Railways provide all
this free travel for their employees, and
reciprocate with the other States for thftr
railway - employees, such unnecessary
generosity at the taxpayers’ expense mus
contribute quite largely towards the
regular annual deficit. —Ceg (Vic.).


An Orange a Day
Citrus-growers are urging the issue of
one orange free to every schoolchild
every* day, cost to be borne by the
Federal Government. It’s a nice idea,
but the growers would be just as pleased
if the oranges were issued daily to cows,
so long as they (the growers) were paid
for the fruit.
Dairyfarmers finally got a free issue
of milk for schoolchildren and, as they
still have a surplus, they’d like free milk
for children at high-schools.
If the citrus-growers succeed with their
free-orange proposal, then applegrowers
will have a strong case for a similar plan.
But I don’t see how poultryfarmers
can get on the bandwagon, let alone the
Mint. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
Flood Relief
“In the ACT” (B. 7/3/’56) has little
knowledge of the function of flood-relief
funds.
In any major flood the average house-
holder and wage-earner are the hardest-
hit victims, because they lack the re-
sources to recover from the crippling
losses. To the average person, house,
furniture and personal effects represent
years of toil, and very few have finan-
cial resources of sufficient size to make
good their losses.
Business- and property-owners, how-
ever, have usually provided a financial
reserve to cope with disasters such as
floods.
I have experienced three major floods,
and, as I have seen its application in
N. S. Wales, flood-relief functions in two
phases.
The first phase is to bring immediate
needs, such as food, bedding, etc., to
sufferers. Then, in due course, relief-
applications are received from victims,
and, after consideration on merits, the
applicant receives a grant which varies,
according to the loss. This grant is in-
tended to help replacement of household
necessities, but not “luxuries.”
Assistance to farmers and (to a lesser
extent) businesses usually is given by way
of low-interest loans, which have to be
repaid.
Money subscribed to public appeals is
also distributed among the victims, and
money obtained in this way nearly equals
Governments grants, so the proportion
that comes out of the taxpayers’ pockets
generally is not great. In any case, money
spent on flood-relief probably would not
agitate taxpayers as much as the money
used to provide politicians and top public
servants with pay-rises.
“In the ACT” is wide of the mark when
he 1 says it is a gamble for people to risk
living in flood-areas. As the greater pro-
portion are people whose employment
requires them to live there, they clearly
have little choice in the matter. It is
also clearly impracticable to shift any
sizeable city to a convenient hilltop.
It is true that alluvial soil deposited
along river-flats enriches farming-proper-
" Aw , what y’ goin' crook about—get out of the Wrong side of
the bed this morning?"
ties, but it is also true that the flood-
waters which carry the soil, in the form
of silt, also sweep away valuable crops
and livestock. The result is that the
farmer remains “in the red” until he gets
his farm back into production, and that
may take months. He probably hasn’t
time to reap any profits from his enriched
property, for by the time he is beginning
to get back on to his feet another flood
is on the way.
The long-range answer to the problem
is undoubtedly flood-prevention and
-mitigation, but both State and Federal
Governments are continually passing the
buck, each saying the task is the responsi-
bility of the other.
There have been surveys of flood-areas,
and lengthy reports—mostly incomplete.
Flood-mitigation committees have for-
warded resolutions calling for some
action. But the reports and files remain
in their pigeonholes, and everyone in
authority forgets that the problem exists
until the next flood comes along and the
vicious-circle begins again.
Either the State or Federal Government
must tackle the problem eventually, be-
cause it' is obvious that shire councils
and individuals lack the means to under-
take independent flood-mitigation mea-
sures on any large scale. — Jake (Q.).
Speed-limits
The ruling of a Melbourne magistrate
that there is no legal sanction for the
imposition of a 30-m.-p.-h. speed-limit
in certain Victorian areas means that
prosecutions for offences against the
speed-limits will have to be suspended
for the present. Motorists have been
warned, however, that this does not give
them an open-go on the roads.
The Chief Commissioner of Police
(Mr. Porter) has made it clear that, in
his view, the limitation of speeds in
areas served by public street-lighting is,
and has been, a valuable contribution to
road-safety. There can be little doubt
that the limitations will be retained and
their enforcement placed beyond any
legal uncertainty.
Most motorists and pedestrians would
agree, after several months of trial, that
the 30-m.-p.-h. limit is reasonable for
urban areas. The small but vocal sec-
tion that opposes the limit would, I be-
lieve, disregard any limit imposed by
law, whether 30, 40 or 50 m.p.h.
What is needed to make our roads safer
is not the relaxation of road-rules, but
their strict enforcement. The first step
is to place the legal position beyond
doubt; the second, to provide adequate
patrols to detect offenders; the third, to
impose real, instead of nominal, penalties.
Public opinion should be encouraged
to regard the motorist who wilfully
breaks the rules as a public menace, and
not a smart fellow of exceptional driving-
skill and -resource who can “get away”
with speeding.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Cyclones
The Coral Sea storms, with their paths
clearly marked and publicised by the
Brisbane Weather Bureau usually days
before their arrival, are only one of the
ways in which northern monsoonal rain
can affect N. S. Wales. The more com-
mon occurrence is for a monsoonal
influence to extend from the Northern
Territory through Queensland into this
State. I know that, in the week men-
tioned, there was heavy rain in south-
east Queensland, but it was in central
Queensland as well, and in the whole of
northern N.S.W. There was more to it
than a disturbance moving in from the
east.
“Old Book” asserts (B. 7/3/’56) that
cyclones never form on the N.S.W. North
Coast. The word “cyclone” is used rather
loosely. Granted that the “blows”
familiar in Queensland as “cyclones”
never form on the N.S.W. North Coast,
but less-intense versions of them often
do, being the result of “lows” which
have come from the interior. On this
occasion, I admit, there were probably
factors which complicated the situation,
but they were not explained by “Old
Book.” Therefore, although the Sydney
Weather Bureau was slow in forecasting
the situation—as it always is—its analysis
was correct in the long run.
There are one or two other points. It
was by no means inevitable that the very
heavy rain would be prolonged for two
days. The maximum influence of a
single cyclonic centre is usually past
much sooner, but on February 9 and 10,
apart from a slower movement than
usual, there were, by the. Friday evening,
“One return, one single to the city, please."
two centres, one on the Illawarra coast
and one between Sydney and Newcastle,
the latter being responsible for a tem-
porary renewal of violent wind and rain
in the evening after a break of two or
three hours. *
Not all cyclones have a northern origin.
On rare occasions in the winter months
Sydney has been visited by cyclones com-
ing from the south or south-east (the
direction of origin, not merely wind-
direction). One iii particular, about 10
years ago, was preceded by a long thun-
derstorm. This was followed by rain and
a cold westerly, then fine weather for
several hours and, finally, a warmer
southerly gale with heavy rain. This
attained an unofficial maximum velocity
(at South Head) of 82 m.p.h. and caused
considerable damage. The centre, moving
from the south, came within 60 miles of
the city.— Rodney C. Knock (N.S.W.).
\ ,
Most of “Old Book’s” remarks on
weather-forecasting accord with my own
experience, as well as with that of my
ex-seafaring neighbor, but we cannot
agree that it is a “meteorological impossi-
bility” for a cyclone to form on the
N.S.W. North Coast.
Cyclones are frequently formed by the
closing-up of a more-or-less V-shaped
monsoonal trough, the end of which may
be nipped off to form a “closed depres-
sion,” or cyclone. Over the continent
these troughs extend much further south
than they do over the open ocean, where
the “thermal equator,” with its accom-
panying low-pressure belt, does not fol-
low the sun so far south of the terrestrial
equator. This accounts for the formation
of small cyclones over the land or close
inshore, Well outside the tropical
boundary.
Such cyclones, though small in extent,
may be very intense, with very steep
barometric gradient and hurricane-force
winds. A storm of this type was respon-
sible for the loss of the small s.s. St.
George, about 1920, between Smoky Cape
and The Solitaries. My neighbor, driving
the Aramac—a fine sea-boat—through
the storm caught a glimpse of the little
ship on her beam-ends just before she
sank. He could do nothing to help in
the howling gale and very high seas.
There were several other storms of
the same type which were not, and could
not have been, forecast by either the
Brisbane or the Sydney meteorological
bureaus. —Old Mac (Q.).
Victoria House
Victoria’s new Agent-General in the
U.K. (Colonel W. W. Leggatt) will carry
with him to London a suggestion that
Victoria House be staffed mainly by Aus-
tralians.
There’s merit in the idea: the import-
ance and usefulness of the State’s centre
in Britain could be increased by people
with up-to-date knowledge of their State.
If such a staff were frequently “turned-
over” to keep it in touch with the Aus-
tralian scene the idea would have even
more to commend it. — Plain Aus-
tralian (Vic.).
Weather-forecasting
I have just read, in the lately published
science-anthology A Treasury of Science,
a contribution on “What Makes the
Weather,” by American scientist Wolf-
gang Langewiesche. It’s dated 1942, so
some of it could be outdated; but I’m
wondering if the information and con-
clusions have penetrated to Australia’s
weather-services.
According to Langewiesche, the re-
search and experiments of a Norwegian
physicist, Vilhelm Bjerknes, have “un-
covered the rhyme and reason in the
weather.” His research represents “Nor-
way’s greatest contribution to world-
culture since Ibsen” and his theory is
called Air-mass Analysis.
The article is mainly about the “seven
American airs” —the Polar Canadian air,
the Caribbean air, Polar Pacific, Sec
Superieur, etc. These various air-masses,
as they pass over America, always have
the same effects on the same parts of the
country; though the same air-mass, as it
moves along, may have a different effect
(thunderstorms, a fine, clear day or misty
rain) in different parts.
Thus, says Langewiesche, with a know-
ledge of air-mass the amateur forecaster
“can make more sense out of the weather
than the professional weatherman could
before Bjerknes ; and even if you don’t
understand Boyle’s Law and all the intri-
cate physics of the atmosphere, you can
do a quite respectable job of forecasting.”
Of course, you can still go astray —or
appear to go astray. For instance, he
cites the possibility of a forecaster tip-
ping, say, the expected thunderstorms for
Chicago and not a drop of rain falls
there, though two neighboring towns cop
them. The particular air-mass concerned
has produced its thunderstorms, but not
quite on the exact spot!
These days, Langewiesche says,
weather-forecasting is down to a fine art,
and a simple one at that. Which brings
me to the point: has any scientific
approach to air-mass analysis been made
for the Australian atmosphere? And, if
so, is it an accurate analysis, or does it
need rechecking? Australian weather-
forecasting is too often astray. — Keith
Ross (N.S.W.).
Victorian Fishing
Connected with the steady falling-off
in deep-sea fishing off Victoria’s south-
west coast, the Fisheries and Game
Department has invited an overseas
expert to report on the possibility of
establishing a sardine-industry in Port
Phillip Bay.
Meanwhile, local-government bodies in
the area are concerned with other aspects
of the fishing-industry. This was under-
lined by the decision of several Lome
fishermen to take their boats and
families to Westralia’s n.-w. coast, with
Geraldton as a home-port.
More than 60 large boats worked at
Queenscliff (Vic.) just after the turn of
the century; now there are less than a
dozen.
Authorities are divided as to the cause.
Some say the present scarcity of fish in
Bass Strait is caused by large shoals of
porpoise—these mammals have been
found with as many as 20 fish in their
stomachs. Others point to the pollution
of waters by river-silt during floods, and
the increasing discharge of trade- and
industrial-wastes, such as oil.
Whatever the cause, a scientific exami-
nation of the problem is overdue —the
livelihood of thousands of people on the
coastline between Portland and Queens-
cliff is at stake. — Plain Australian
(Vic.).


What method should
be used for marking
and tailing lambs—
the knife or rubber
rings? Practical ex-
perience provides the
answer to this ques-
tion. One grazier re-
ports that he has used
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for four years
during which time he
has marked over 5,000
lambs and has not
had one fatality re-
sulting from shock.
Can supporters of the
knife method truth-
fully make such a
claim?
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaghf Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pi. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ADVANCES IN VETERINARY RESEARCH (1)
This is the first of two
informative articles in which
the Director of Veterinary
Research at Glenfield
(N.S.W.) describes the im-
portant advances made during
this century by Australian
research-workers, recognised
world leaders in certain
fields.
TT is a testimony to the animal-
A quarantine services of Aus-
tralia that foot - and - mouth
disease, rinderpest, rabies and
Newcastle-disease (of poultry)
have been kept out of this
country.
Pleuro - pneumonia among
cattle in the northern areas
of the continent has restricted
export of live cattle to many
parts of the globe where
there is an interest in Australian
types of certain breeds. Some
countries, notably U.S.A. and
New Zealand, exercise a total
ban on Australian cattle on this
account; other countries (e.g.,
Japan) will only accept our
cattle subject to certain rigid
conditions regarding this disease.
Pleuro., introduced first to
Victoria 98 years ago, spread
thence throughout the Common-
wealth. In those days veterinary-
services were non-existent, and
it was a remarkable stroke of
fortune that other exotic diseases
were not introduced to become
enzootic in our flocks and
herds.
It was not until early this
century that Australia initiated
some positive action to protect
its flocks and herds against the
continued economic waste from
animal-disease —establishing the
Faculties of Veterinary Science
at the Universities of Melbourne
and Sydney. Both schools have
produced a number of graduates
who have made outstanding con-
tributions to scientific knowledge
and animal-disease control, not
solely in Australia, but on a
world basis.
Today Melbourne is no longer
a teaching-institution, but is
devoted solely to research. This
was offset in 1935 by the open-
ing of the Faculty of Veterinary
Science at the University of
Queensland.
Though 50 years ago Aus-
tralian research - workers on
problems of animal-health and
-nutrition were unknown, today
our research-workers and insti-
tutions are regarded as world
leaders in the field of diseases
of sheep and helminthology
(intestinal parasitism and its
control).
An important aspect of our
livestock industries is that the
indigenous fauna are not rumin-
ants, and so have not acted as
reservoirs and transmitters of
serious infectious diseases of
domestic animals. The presence
of native animals As “carriers”
has caused a lot of trouble in
such countries as South Africa
and South America.
While various disease-prob-
lems of the sheep-and-wool
industry had been recognised ift
other sheep-raising countries, it
was only through the efforts of
Australian research-workers that
solutions were arrived at and the
answers made available to the
world.
As an instance, much of the
best grazing-country of N.S.W.
and Victoria was severely handi-
capped by losses sustained from
black - disease (or infectious
necrotic hepatitis), which was
responsible for financial losses
running into millions per annum.
Indeed, much of this excellent
sheep-country was changed from
wool - production to cattle -
raising.
. Research on black-disease was
initiated during World War I
by Dr. Sydney Dodd at the
Faculty of Veterinary Science,
University of Sydney. He clearly
showed that the focal-point of
this disease was located in the
liver, and that it was due to an
anaerobic micro-organism which
was subsequently identified as
Clostridium cedematiens.
These findings were substanti-
ated by Dr. H. E. Albiston, of
Melbourne, who advanced cer-
tain hypotheses on the etiology
of the disease. Present writer,
working from the Glenfield Re-
search Station in N.S.W., showed
that the organism, Cl. cedema-
tiens, was carried in the livers
of healthy sheep in black-disease
districts.
This jvas subsequently con-
firmed by Dr. A. W. Turner, who
established the association be-
tween *the onset of the disease
and the invasion of the liver by
immature fluke. Turner suc-
ceeded also in proSucing a very
efficacious vaccine in controlling
losses from black-disease.
At the same time that the solu-
tion of the black-disease problem
was presented, McKay estab-
lished that the intermediate host
in Australia of the liver-fluke,
Fasciola hepatica, was the small
water-snail, Simlimnea brazieri.
The value of carbon-tetra-
chloride against the liver-fluke
was demonstrated by Clunies
Ross and Seddon, who showed
that the drug could be safely
administered to sheep as a
drench in liquid-paraffin. Clunies
Ross also demonstrated the value
of anti-snail measures in reduc-
ing the incidence of fluke, and,
as a result of his studies on the
binomics of Simlimnea, he
showed that copper-sulphate in
dilutions as high as one-in-one-
million effectively destroyed the
water-snail.
The net result of these findings
presented a bracket of knowledge
which reorientated the sheep-
and-wool industry on the table-
lands and slopes of eastern Aus-
tralia.
Following closely upon the
solution of the black-disease and
liver-fluke problems, Dr. H. W.
Bennetts, in Western Australia,
presented a solution to the prob-
lem of entero-toxaemia of sheep
and lambs. The occurrence of
this disease had been a regular
event on high-quality grazing-
country in certain districts of
Western Australia, but the re-
search by Dr. Bennetts got on to
the fact that the cause of the
trouble was a micro-organism
present in the sheep’s intestines ;
led to the successful use of a
controlling vaccine.
His findings also gave a lead
to research-workers in other
States and in other sheep-raising
countries, and subsequently
these identified the condition as
existing in their particular areas.
Again, the problem of footrot
has always seemed an insur-
mountable one to the grazier
who has been unfortunate
enough to sustain this infection
in his flock. The cause of
true footrot was revealed by
Beveridge, and his methods of
control, as determined by pro-
tracted research, have stood the
test of time over the years and
have been shown to be particu-
larly sound.
Grahame Edgar.
The Big Fence
“J.E.M.”: Back of the Out-
back in Queensland, west of
Longreach and Dajarra and
Cloncurry, cattlemen have for
years fought spinifex, sand,
heat and bedourie-whirlwinds.
Now, creeping coolibah-post by
gidgee-post, the Big Fence is
extending its defence to help
them beat their worst enemy, the
dingo.
From Hungerford on the
N. S. Wales border to north of
Cloncurry, east to Hughenden
and south to Stanthorpe, the
fence will run for 3500 miles,
a 6ft.-high balk to the marauder
which in one night has been
known to slash the throats of 200
sheep. George McDougall, of
Wirrilyerna, bought 50 flock-
rams for 30-guineas each.
Dingoes got to 30 of them.
Building the westernmost sec-
tion of this longest verminproof
fence in the world, Rowley Pym
is chunky, leathered, built like a
bulldozer. As a measure of his
character —cutting a gidgee-log,
the power-saw ripped his left leg
off at the ankle ; Pym used the
starting-string of the motor as a
tourniquet, crawled miles for
help.
Out there, he has a mixed
bunch, doing as tough a job as
any in Australia.
There’s a Scot, one-time of the
Royal Navy’s Fleet Air Arm ; an
ex-major of the War II Papuan
Infantry Battalion; a Pole, 22
years of age, 49 round the chest;
and his little mate, just as
powerful—both burned black.
And there was the Choom: ex-
golf-professional ; pink cheeks,
and white, sun-drawing skin.
In pity, Pym said: “Sorry .. .
the next truck out leaves in 10
minutes.”
The Choom said: “Give me
an axe.”
A week later Pym passed him ;
his blistered hands and sun-
scabbed face made the hardened
fencer wince.
“Look,” said Pym, “you’ll die
here! ”
The Choom smiled. He was
after £3OO to get to Singapore.
He got it.
Separating the cattle-country
from the softer sheep-areas, its
line shaped like a gigantic thumb
thrusting up into the heart of
Queensland, the fence is strong
wirenetting strung between posts
15ft. apart; the netting is buried
6in.-in the ground, with eveiy
nine-inches of its 3500 miles tied
on to the wire strands.
In flood-areas the netting is
hung in the form of an apron.
It floats up on the flood, lets the
debris through, then drops back
into position.
Good money: a fencer earns
£35 a week; a dogger gets £5
a dingo-scalp. One dogger pulls
in £4OOO a year.
Something to fire the arm-
chair imagination, this fence.
Fifteen-hundred miles by rail,
north-west from Brisbane: a
team of sun-blackened men,
shorts and boots, as hard as the
posts they put-up across the
gullies and ridges and sand.
Dirty, washing in water holes, fly-
ridden ; o.p. rum the after-work
throat-washer. The long, un-
broken line reaching back behind
them, the new wire touched by
the sun.
And they are beating the
dingo.
Beef-breeds at Sydney
The last two beef-breeds to be
judged at the Royal Easter Show
(judging of the other beef-breeds
was reported in last week’s
Bulletin) were the Poll Here-
fords and Santa Gertrudis.
U.K. breeder Captain de
Quincey Quincey judged the Poll
Herefords. As was the case in
many other breeds this year, the
judge leaned towards the younger
cattle, taking the junior- and
reserve junior-champions right
through to the championships in
both the male and female classes.
In judging, there was a con-
stant hunt for breed-character
and -quality.
The champion bull was the
junior-champion, exhibited by
A. Hordern, of Milton Park,
Bowral (N.S.W.). He was a
most attractive young bull,
Milton Sanak 9th, by Alf Mixer
Return 24th (imp.) from Milton
Priscilla. A very deep and thick
youngster, showing very good
color, and with a good head, he
should develop well.
The reserve junior-champion
and reserve champion came from
the under-12-months class and
was exhibited by W. J. Lenehan,
of Brewarrana stud, Narrandera
(hj.S.W.). He was Brewarrana
Duplicate 3rd, by Brewarrana
Domino. He defeated an
excellent line-out of older bulls
to take the reserve-ribbon.
The female classes were as
even as peas in a pod, and ended
in a complete victory for the two
younger champions from the
Deepfields stud of K. G. Luke,
Victoria.
Furthermore, both came from
the baby-class. The ' junior-
champion and champion was
Deepfields Decima 4th, by Deep-
fields Grenadier, while the reserve
junior-champion and reserve-
champion was Deepfields
Marinda 4th, by Beau Domino


The "FARMERS 1 BOY"
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates,
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
does
about
Sprays
MAN’S joo
the place
(, Hoes, etc.
fe * $
“Series II” and “MAJOR”
Rotary Scythe or Twin Rotary Scythe.
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalum
and DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut
the grass as short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and for demonstrations:
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUI6II.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8651.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1651.
Qland: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane FA 2631
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., 115 York St., Launceston.
W.A. : WESTERN MACHINERY Co. Pty. Ltd., 494 Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO. Pty. Ltd., 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
$
CATTLE
TROUGHINS
m
f
i
far
SEPTIC TANKS
□
□
WELL
LININGS
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
Stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE 8X4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORt
, QUEAN BEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
mas
74 Years of
Skilled Breeding
Stand behind
Every Haddon
Rig Ram
It is easy to capitalise on these scientific
breeding achievements by investing in
Haddon Rig Blood. Every Haddon
Rig Ram offered for sale must
measure-up to the exacting standards
set by the Stud.
Throughout Australia, Haddon Rig
Rams are prized for their wool charac-
teristics, hardiness, adaptability and
high lambing percentages. Raised on
the open plains of western New South
Wales, where the annual rainfall is 17
inches, Haddon Rig Rams are dis-
tinguished by massive frames, true
conformations and dense, soft-handling
wool.
An investment in Haddon Rig Blood
is your surest way to obtain MORE
wool per head and more pence per
pound. At the Sydney Ram Sales in
June you will have the opportunity to
see and buy rams from the Stud
which has secured top aggregate for
SIXTEEN successive years.
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W.
Tel.: Warren, 74
2nd, second in her class to the
champion.
Santa Gertrudis cattle were
shown in Sydney for the first
time. These thick-skinned, red,
glossy cattle were evolved at
King Ranch, in Texas (U.S.A.).
Predominantly Shorthorn, they
were evolved by crossing with a
Zebu bull. They are being tried
in Australia in tropical and semi-
tropical zones, where their
resistance to tick and heat is to
their advantage.
Three exhibitors presented
cattle for the American judge,
R. J. Kleberg, jnr., of King
Ranch, Texas. He awarded the
male championship to King
Ranch (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., of
Risdon, Warwick (Q.), the same
exhibitor taking the female-
championship.
The other exhibitors, both of
whom won minor prizes, were
Cinnabar Pty., Ltd., and Peel
River Land and Mineral Co.,
Ltd.
The Horse
High returns for
primary-production have had the
effect of making the land-man
somewhat indifferent to his cost-
structure. This has been
aggravated by heavy income-
tax, so he has not troubled
greatly about reducing costs,
because it has only meant in-
creased taxation.
That day is quickly passing:
wool, wheat, dairy-produce and
other land-returns are steadily
falling. And the average farmer
and grazier will soon have to
worry about costs.
There are obvious ways in
which he can save money: better
care of ewes at lambing, for
instance. But the horse is well
worth thinking about as a
money-saver in lean times.
Take light horses, supplanted
today by the motor-truck and
-car. They have a hundred uses
on the farm and small grazing-
property. The youngsters can
ride or drive them to school#
mount them to bring in the
cows, to muster the “killers” or
small flocks near at hand, apart
from their general use for
mustering and other stock-work.
They can also be used for the
sulky and springcart, and help in
dozens of jobs about the place.
The heavy draught-horse, of
course, did work now largely
taken-over by the tractor and
motor-lorry.
I am not advocating an all-
round return to horse-farming—
mechanical power on the land
has come to stay—but Dobbin
is cheap, and he can be used
economically for a lot of work
which is now done expensively
by machines.
As a country bank-manager in
the ’thirties I noticed that the
men with horse-teams weathered
the difficult times fairly well.
Barrel-clover
“Nypo”: Barrel-clover, which
has spread fast through the
lower-rainfall cereal - growing
areas since the war, is becoming
popular as a leguminous cover-
crop for vines along the Murray.
It re-seeds itself every year,
and saves a lot of the cost and
labor involved when tick-beans
or peas have to be sown and
ploughed-under.
All barrel-clover needs is
about 2cwt. of super, an acre
every early-autumn. Include
lindane with the super, if the red-
legged earth-mite is a problem.
Run a disk down the edges of
the “clover” (technically it’s a
medic) to keep runners from
spreading under the vines. Leave
a strip of barrel-clover down the
centre of the row to ensure re-
seeding for the next season.
Soil-probe
“C.A.A.”: A soil-probe is an
invaluable guide in testing effi-
ciency of irrigation. It is a piece
of round iron fin. to iin. in
diameter, marked at 6in. in-
tervals, to which a cross-piece
handle is attached.
Probe with a steady downward
pressure. If penetration one or
two days after irrigation is less
than 9in., insufficient water has
entered the soil, and either very
frequent irrigation or longer
application - times will be
necessary.
Penetration of 12in. to 18in.
generally indicates satisfactory
irrigation. The probe may be
used to indicate when to shift
spray-lines. A penetration of
15in. to 18in. indicates a satis-
factory application of water.
Good Hay
“Baler”: Good hay has at
least two big advantages over
poor hay: it contains more
meat-, milk- and wool-producing
nourishment per mouthful, and
stock can eat more of it.
The reason isn’t so much that
they prefer good hay as that they
can handle it better in their
stomachs.
As high-quality hay contains
very little fibre, a cow can digest
a stomachful—about 301 b. in 24
hours. The same amount of
stemmy hay could take nearly
twice as long to digest, and
hence to convert into things like
meat, milk and wool.
So it’s wise to cut hay as early
as possible; store it under the
best conditions ; and feed it first
to the producing-animals.
A sliding-scale of prices for
hay, according to quality, would
be a good idea.
Winter-feed
“Nypo”: Heavy mid-March
rains on warm ground over
large areas of northern Victoria
should pave the way for good
feed right into the winter.
Late-autumn pasture-growth
can be used best by limiting it
to the immediate needs of the
animals, locking - up excess
growth for use when the weather
gets colder. Make sure the grubs
and the red-legged earth-mite
don’t get the feed before your
stock.
Pays to hand-feed early, to
prevent animals losing too much
condition, which is hard to
recover; and stop the heavy
grazing of pastures, which, too,
take longer to recover after being
eaten-down too severely.
Oats sown now provide excel-
lent winter-feed. The new Vic-
torian variety, Alpha, is excel-
lent for winter-grazing. Sow
oats for grazing more heavily
than for hay or grain. If you
want a variety which will come
again for grain after grazing
sow Orient.
When planning the winter-
grazing programme be sure to
remember the lambs, which
thrive on a green-pick in addi-
tion to their milk-ration after
they are two to three weeks old.
Farm Hints
“Sansome”: If you suspect
copper-deficiency in pasture run
a few black sheep with the flock.
If the fleeces remain black and
glossy, there is enough copper.
If the wool turns greyish, there
isn’t.
“Wilco”: Seedlings are often
destroyed by sudden, heavy
rains. To avoid this, sink forked-
sticks into the ground at each
corner of the seed-bed, having
the two on one side slightly
longer than those on the other
side. Run straight poles be-
tween the forks and put sheets
of corrugated-iron on top. The
slope runs the water off. The
shorter of the posts should be
3ft. long to avoid drawing the
seedlings.
“Dough”: Greater use of
skim-milk powder in bread-
making has been urged by G. W.
Coombs, manager of the
Queensland Butter Marketing
Board. Mr. Coombs said the
addition of skim-milk would
improve the nutritive and bio-
logical values of bread; its
keeping-qualities would be raised
to a remarkable degree; the
average Australian calcium-
intake would be increased to the
correct level; and better use
would be made of a valuable
food than feeding it to pigs.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(25/3/’56)
Sunspot outbreaks continue to be observed, although
this activity is by no means as high as that experienced
during the previous two months. Nevertheless the moderate
rains which are indicated on the coast and tablelands of
N.S.W. during April are likely to be heavier than antici-
pated.
Heavy falls should continue on the central and north
coasts of Queensland during April, and these should extend
into the central-west, with the likelihood of further flooding.
Light to moderate rain should occur elsewhere.
In Victoria, the Mallee, Wimmera, western districts and
north country should have only light rain during April,
with reasonably good falls in the balance of the State.
South Australia should receive light to moderate,
patchy rains during April, apart from some good falls in
the upper-north.
In W.A. during April heavy rains may occur in the
West Kimberleys, De Grey and Fortescue, with good rain
in portion of the south-east and lower-south coast, but light
elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
G E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862*.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: a
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX. ORWELL P HlLuir o,
R. J. VICARS, A, H. DICKINS, O. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
ON his return to the house he
found the girl’s father
waiting.
“Ah, Master,” he cried
genially, “I just came to see
how my piccaninny was pro-
gressing ... if the grilly was
showing signs of coming back.
And what do I find? She is
beautiful. She is cured com-
pletely. You are a doctor true.
Not even the Number One
doctor in Kamerang knows as
much as you,” he exaggerated
exuberantly.
The girl and the father and
Blakeley all grinned happily at
each other.
“Yes,” agreed Blakeley
quietly, “she is cured now. In
two more days the three weeks
will have finished.”
A shadow fell across their
faces. He had intended to add,
“And then she can go home,”
but the words stuck in his throat
and remained .unsaid.
In the evening Blakeley
finished his soup, but found that
he had no appetite for any more.
Rising from the table he
slumped into an armchair and
asked for the coffee only.
Wotari appeared with a face of
dismay, holding the second
course temptingly ; but Blakeley
shook his head and told him just
to put it in the refrigerator and
he would eat it tomorrow,
perhaps.
As soon as he had finished
his coffee and cleaned his teeth,
he quietly changed into his
laplap in the dark bedroom,
because the others were still
moving about in the other
lighted rooms, then sank grate-
fully on to the bed.
He felt none of the restless-
ness of the previous night." His
weary limbs and aching head
melted into the mattress as
though into cloud. He heard
the kitchen doors being locked
and the lamps hiss out and then
the pad of departing bare feet.
Darkness and quietness filled the
house and he lay thinking. He
glanced wistfully towards the
corner where in a while the girl
would come and lie down, and
mocked himself for his dreams
of the previous night.
What a fool he had been, he
told himself, to believe that any-
thing so sweet could ever realiy
come to him. He had lived for
thirty-four years with woman
always an unknown mystery to
him. He had expected too much
to believe that the door might
be opened now. Out of his
universal abilities he had created
almost a legend for competence
and omniscience, and over the
years had plated it with an
armor of complete self-
confidence.
The marvellous Garstone
Blakeley, he derided ; never pre-
pared to admit that something
important had always been miss-
ing. Now for the first time he
admitted too late that the thirty-
four years had been lonely
years. And he could look
forward to the same barrenness
down the long corridor of the
future. What wishful thinking,
to imagine that, because other
men had loved, it might have at
last come to him also. In two
days the girl would be gone, and
it would be best if he never saw
her again.
When the door opened softly,
he rolled to face the opposite
wall. He heard her rustling
among her things for a moment,
and then there was silence. He
quit staring at the wardrobe and
closed his eyelids. There was a
movement of the mosquito-net
by his back and the edge of the
mattress pressed down with a
weight. He whirled in alarm.
In the moonlight he perceived
her shape above him, clean and
beautiful as a figure sculptored
in dark marble.
“Master . . .” she whispered
tentatively.
Mrs. Scuddy stood up, re-
trieved three oranges which had
burst out of their paper-bag,
escaped the string-mesh and
rolled beneath the table. Wav-
ing gaily to Miss McCansh, she
clumped out of the lounge, call-
ing across the tables, “Don’t lose
any sleep, dear.”
At the door she bumped into
Richard Wendle.
“Ears burning?” she asked,
as she brushed past him.
“God, she’s a bitch! ” he com-
plained, as he sat down at
Agnes’s table. “Look,” he
went on, “she can’t even drink
tidily.”
The polished table-top in
front of the chair vacated by
Mrs. Scuddy was sloppy with
rings of spilled beer dusted-
over with ash. A waiter sidled
across the room and wiped the
table down.
Richard looked at his watch.
“Four beers,” he ordered;
“may only be time for one
round.”
The waiter dematerialised.
“She’s a good soul,” Agnes
said.
“So you tell me. What were
you saying about me?”
“About you?”
“She hinted that I’d been dis-
cussed.”
“Not really,” Agnes fiddled
with her glass. “No. We were
talking about Beryl Grayling.”
“Oh?”
“I’m sorry for her.”
“Indeed! ”
“But,” said Miss McCansh,
“we’d really exhausted her as a
topic of conversation. How’s
the report getting on?”
■pOUR mornings after this
* Mrs. Scuddy walked into
Miss McCansh’s private office.
“Ag,” she said, “I want to
borrow one of your girls for
the filing-room today. Young
Brewster’s down from Brisbane
and he can’t seem to find a
thing he’s looking for. I can’t
spare anyone from my staff to
be his nursemaid.”
“We’re busy, too.”
“Better send Beryl Grayling.”
“But —Mr. Wendle—he . . .”
“He can spare her for one
day. She’s only doing his work
on loan,” said Mrs. Scuddy
firmly ; and added, “Have you
met Mr. Brewster?”
“Once or twice.”
“He’s a lonely soul with cul-
tured tastes. Due to be here
for a week.”
Miss McCansh went across to
Richard Wendle’s room. Beryl
glanced up from her typewriter
as the door opened. Wendle
was not there, and the girl’s
expression changed, becoming
too obviously disappointed as
she recognised Miss McCansh.
It altered to hatred when she
heard of her projected day’s
work in “Filing.”
“But I’m sure you’ll be able
to make up the time,” Miss
McCansh said.
Beryl felt better. Perhaps it
would be necessary to work
back. And if she did, surely
Richard would find some excuse
to be in the office. He’d given
her quite a look this morning.
“Then I’ll wait for Mr. Wendle
and tell him,” she said.
“No, run along to Mrs.
Scuddy, Miss Grayling. She
wants you as soon as possible.
I’ll speak to Mr. Wendle . . .”
“ Er — sorry , old boy —I didn't catch your number!
Wendle was furious.
“Don’t be silly, Richard. If
you’re in a particular hurry for
anything I shall run it off my-
self.”
“That will.be like old times,
at least. Do you remem-
ber ...?”
“Yes. You weren’t so keen
on that report.”
On the following day Mrs.
Scuddy spoke to Miss McCansh
again.
“Miss Grayling is very effic-
ient. Mr. Brewster wondered
whether he could borrow her for
another day or so.”
“I think I’d have to speak to
Mr. Connor. Besides, Miss
Grayling is a typist, really. I
can’t ask her to continue with
filing-work like this.”
“She seems quite agreeable to
the plan,” said Mrs. Scuddy.
“Well, I suppose I can pianage
Mr. Wendle’s work myself for
a time.”
Mr. Connor, dry, grey-skinned
and desiccated, told Miss Mc-
Cansh in his flat, creaky voice
that he was happy for her to
make whatever arrangements she
and Mrs. Scuddy saw fit. She
reflected that the tiger was begin-
ning to suffer from blunt claws in
his old age.
A WEEK later, when Miss
Grayling applied for a
transfer to the Brisbane office,
Miss McCansh presented the
girl’s written application to old
Mr. Connor with more confi-
dence than she sometimes felt in
his presence.
“No,” he said. “No. I don’t
like it. That girl’s alone in the
world, you tell me. Racing off to
Brisbane. It’s no good. Besides,
what can we do about Wendle?”
“I’ve been typing for him, and
I can manage to go on as at
present. And we can’t stop Miss
Grayling going to Brisbane, sir ;
she’ll leave the firm if she doesn’t
get this transfer.”
Eventually he agreed. He sent
for Mr. Brewster during the
afternoon. Later he called Mr.
Wendle in to see him.
Six months later, on the
occasion of young Brewster’s
engagement to Miss Grayling, he
posted a generous personal
cheque.
“The old boy thinks he’s
God,” Mrs. Scuddy remarked,
downing her beer thirstily.
“Perhaps,” said Agnes. “It’s
the sort of romance, though, that
old men like. He gave Brewster a
terrific earbashing when Miss
Grayling got her transfer.”
“He thinks he’s God,” repeated
Mrs. Scuddy. “Two beers,
waiter, thanks ; yes, it is hot.”
“I must rush,” she announced,
five-minutes later. “Only a grill,
but the vegies take time.”
She grabbed her string-bag,
from which a potato dropped
and rolled towards the entrance.
Richard Wendle, coming in, trod
on it. He slipped. She grabbed
him as he nearly fell.
“Ooops!’’ she said.
“Damn and blast you to hell,”
he muttered.
“Is that what you really think
of me?” she crowed.
“If you must know —yes!”
“Well, ta-ta. It’s a relief to
be certain.”
Agnes pursed her lips as he
sat down.
“Must you lose your temper?
She’s rather a dear.”
“Waiter, four beers. Yes. I
•loathe the woman.” He drank
quickly. “She spoiled my
entrance, darling,” he com-
plained.
“She usually does.”
“But today’s different. I
wanted to make rather a good
impression today.”
“T’M delighted,” said Mr.
Connor, senior, the follow-
ing morning. “Delighted. No
doubt he’s told you we"ve given
him the new job in the Country
Section.”
“Yes,” Miss McCansh smiled ;
“and it will make things much
easier.”
“Oh, yes. Easier for you. But
I’ve got to see about a new head-
typist, I suppose.”
He scowled, his wrinkled face
screwing up.
“But I haven’t resigned.”
“You’re being dismissed,” he
snapped. “I know some men
don’t object to grills every night,
but Wendle is likely to be im-
portant to this firm, and I insist
on his being properly fed. I may
re-engage you part-time—say,
three days a week. That should
be just about enough to cope
with his special typing and —er —
with teenagers, as I believe they
call themselves these days.”
“But, Mr. Connor . . .”
“No buts. I’ll raise your salary
when I take you on at part-time
rates. Listen!” He slammed his
hand down on the desk. “Now
you’re being sacked I tell you
frankly that one childless frump
like your friend in the filing-
department is all this firm can
stand. That woman,” he snorted,
“sometimes seems to think she’s
God.”
AH of which seems to suggest
that there is a folklore of some
Sort circulating among the meu
of the tribe, too.
Maybe. Maybe.
even after the most, prayerful
consideration, might have found
difficulty in refusing. No wonder
each contestant was on her toes.
We were greeted by the com-
pere-large and affable, trailing
clouds of glory and several
yards of microphone-wire. No
memory-feats were expected of
him ; each competitor’s name
constituted a conspicuous portion
of her frontal adornment. The
questions —a formidable bundle
—c o v e r e d several closely-
guarded pages. The first hand
raised (back to schooldays!)
would win the opportunity of
supplying the correct answer.
Several bars of theme-music,
followed by a commercial, dis-
armingly persuasive, delivered
with a toothpaste-smile — and the
game was on in earnest.
In fairness to the other con-
testants, I make no claim that
some dread arthritic spasm kept
my hand down. My fall from
grace was brought about by the
entirely unexpected, altogether-
alarming fact that the modern
housewife (myself excepted) is
apparently capable of ab-
normally swift mental reactions.
Suffice to say, I was ignomini-
ously defeated.
The announcer —genial fellow
—did his best. Such conversa-
tional openings as “In Phila-
delphia recently,” or “Last week
at Moonee Valley” were greeted
with instantly-raised hands—
with one exception. I —wretched
dullard that I proved to be—con-
tinued to wait in agonising expec-
tation for the question to be
completed!
As the afternoon wore on,
with dreadful visions of a small,
disappointed figure on the home-
front, I went completely berserk
and, disregarding the stipulated
hand-signal, blurted out the
answer! Such unsportsmanlike
behavior was greeted with out-
raged clucks. A wagging fore-
finger and waggish voice in-
formed the listeners (including
me) that the competitor who
broke the hand-up rule was
so entirely off the beam that the
question would not be allowed.
Furious blush and mumbled
apology.
But the end was in sight; even
a no-hoper can recognise defeat
when it leers from every corner
of a soundproof auditorium . • •
My dubious efforts were not
entirely overlooked. As I l®tt
the building a sympathetic blonde
offered a friendly smile and a
small number of coins the
token-offering reserved exclu-
sively for the complete nitwit
who is incapable of supplying th e
correct answer to a sing e
question.
Homeward Christian house-
wife, trudging as from war.. •


A GREAT NEW NOVEL BY
HOWARD SPRING
These Lovers Fled Away”
COLLINS
Available from all booksellers
18s. 9d.
PUBLISHERS
AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE
A Bibliography to 1938 by E. Morris Miller, M.A., Litt.D. Extended
to 1950. Edited with a historical outline and descriptive commentaries
by Frederick T. Macartney.
The new edition of this invaluable reference book for students, librarians and people
with literary interests, has been completely revised and rearranged. There are
commentaries on the life and work of many authors, which have been arranged
alphabetically. In the preliminary historical outline, which surveys the field as
a whole, there are sections dealing with poetry, fiction, essays, criticism, descriptive
works, drama, anthologies and earliest works. 84/- (post 1/11)
You'll find this and all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
coast. Then I started to write. The
result is the dugong section, and those
who have read it I think will agree it
is quite different to any previous treat-
ment on many points. Of course the
belief that dugongs started the mermaid
legend is a very old one, and the fact
that dugongs are ugly, obvious enough
to anybody who has ever seen one.
This question of finding reliable facts
is a problem, as I said before, which
must face any writer dealing with
encyclopaedic material. He takes the
best information there is on offer. He
adds his own personal experiences and
style. To save himself from boredom
and to keep freshness in his work he
does research in a small field.
Perhaps you think this is a little
unfair to the writers of textbooks on
animals and plants. Australian classics
like “What Bird Ts That?” “Furred
Animals of Australia,” “Australian
Shells,” “Australian Seashores,” “Won-
ders of the Great Barrier Reef,” to
mention only a few, are written because
the people concerned are trying to
spread the gospel of nature-study and
conservation, as well as for purely
scientific purposes.
I, too, think the study of nature is
an important one. Ido my best to
educate the public in the wise use of
our natural resources and the conser-
vation of our animals and plants.
My guide to the Barrier Reef sets
out to answer in compact form the
questions people ask about the Reef.
Most reviewers agree it does this in an
interesting and accurate form. Some
have been, kind enough to say it is
worth reading, not only on the Reef but
in Alice Springs or in Perth. How-
ever, having tempted the buyer to start
reading natural-history, I don’t like to
rest there. That is why in all my books
I give a suggested reading-list’so that
the person who wants to dip more
deeply knows where to go.
I trust you will pardon the fullness
of this reply, but, as you can under-
stand, it is unpleasant to be thought a
mere copier. Although I must say, if
anybody does want to copy, Mr.
Roughley is a writer whom one could
be proud to imitate.
Vincent Serventy.
D. H. Lawrence's Women
The first of three volumes of The
Complete Short Stories of D, H.
Lawrence in the “Phoenix Edition” of
his works (Heinemann) enforces a
reconsideration of an author more
talked-about than read, and suggests a
point of some interest to the short-
story writer.
These stories, mainly about miners,
the people and countryside Lawrence
grew-up in, are on the average not
better than the best of contemporary
Australian short-stories. They are
exact studies of localities and locals.
But the difference is that each one of
the Lawrence stories is inspired-by and
tums-on the preoccupation of the sex-
war that was with him almost a mono-
mania. It was the stamp, like Chur-
chill’s cigar and Hitler’s moustache,
by which he became famous and by
which the public recognised him; his
impact upon his generation.
Before Lawrence, it was expected of
a happy marriage that husband and
wife should never have a harsh word
between them; after Lawrence, the
nervous intensity of the brawl was the
yardstick of the successful marriage ;
and the exploitation of this idea by
Noel Coward gave England its greatest
comedy of this century.
At the same time, Lawrence is most
impressive in this set of stories when
the sex-war separates rather than
when it brings together, as in “A
Modern Lover,” where the student
returns to the miner’s daughter, or
“The Shades of Spring,” where the
student returns to the gamekeeper’s
daughter he had jilted, or “The Witch
a la Mode,” where the former lover,
on the verge of seduction, overturns a
lamp and rushes out of the house, or
“New Eve and Old Adam,” where,
after a crackle of domestic dynamite
the husband and wife come together
only to be parted because he could
not absolutely possess her. The charm
and beauty Lawrence gives these
women, the lovely countryside with
which he surrounds the game-keeper’s
daughter, the enchanting moonlight
among the brambles with which he
sets the scene for his hero’s last view
of the miner’s daughter, the padded
and musical interior to be ruined by
the overturning of the lamp, the love-
liness of the town-wife’s dresses and
poses and the daisies twined in her
hair—there was where Lawrence’s
heart was, with the angry girls he
left behind him ; maybe that was how
he loved them, ruffled, independent
and contemptuous, and that was how
he wanted to remember them.
There is, of course, a certain
amount of sarcastic humor, as in “Her
Turn,” where the wife goes out and
buys furniture to enforce her share of
her husband’s strike-pay; and in
“Strike Pay” itself, that wonderful
study of miners at' leisure. There are
the grimmer stories, like “The
Daughters of the Vicar,” and “The
Christening”; and “The Shadow in the
Rose Garden” with the famous ending
about the lover who had gone mad ;
and the even more famous “The Prus-
sian Officer”; but these last two are on
the edge of melodrama—effect-pieces ;
they have not the force of the idea
of caustic and unattainable women
which he raised up, in the struggle
with which he wore out his life.
"Southerly"
At least it cannot be said that
“Southerly” (No. 4, 1955) lacks variety.
On one page there is:—
Offstage his virago could be heard
keeping it up, either in squalling
monologue or having a row with the
cook. In either case it failed to re-
lieve her of those stultifications of
spleen which must be the major in-
ferno of a virago’s being, for she
suddenly exploded into the office,
upsetting every chair in transit ....
screeching like a damned soul and
exploding out again to a scattering
explosion of pens, papers, inkwells
and ledgers all over the carpet.
And on the next there is:—
In Slessor’s earlier verse, repre-
sented by “Earth Visitors,” 1926,
the appeal is to eye, primarily, then
to ear—little to mind. The verse of
his middle period, in “Cuckooz Con-
trey,” 1932, evinces a reduction of
the visual element, an increase of
the aural; while the third stage,
“Five Bells,” 1939, with “Beach
Burial,” 1942, presents a complex
enticement of ear, mind, heart and
eye.
The first is another of Norman Lind-
say’s lively autobiographical essays;
the second is Professor R. G. Howarth
very ably discussing the mastery of
“Sound in Slessor’s Poetry.”
Reviewed Briefly
Power Over Things: Harry Hooton
( inferno press, box 5030 san francisco,
California, u.s.a.”). - A curious little
book in which Mr. Hooton, whom one
remembers for a poem memorably
entitled “As Good As Any Other Poem
About the Moon,” states his philos-
ophy of “anarcho-technocracy” or
“power over things” and prints some
more poems as good as any other
poems, or almost.
* * * *
A High-Pitched Buzz: Roger Long-
rigg (Faber). A new author, Longrigg
holds the mirror up to the advertising-
world in London and gets a lively,
glittering reflection, in which he ob-
serves his rising young copywriter with
as much amused detachment as he
does other members of the advertising
game,” the rich young men, the
smart young girls and the night-clubs,
cocktail-parties, pubs and offices
(glossy and otherwise) where the game
is played. Nothing much happens ex-
cept an office intrigue and a bit of a
love-affair, but there is amusement all
the time because of the author’s sharp
ear for dialogue, his gift for burlesque,
and, in the description of the copy-
chief’s zany household, his appreciation
of the subtler forms of humor from
which pathos is never quite distant.
* * * *
The North Sea: Heinrich Heine,
translated by Vernon Watkins (Faber).
In this sequence, largely composed be-
tween 1824 and 1826, Heine experi-
mented outside his usual tight lyrical
structure, employing a “rhymeless form
whose length of line could be sustained
and determined solely by the music and
rhythm of the sea.” Watkins’s trans-
lation is intended both for those who
can read the original German (the Ger-
man text is printed facing the trans-
lations) and for those, like this reader,
who cannot. Essentially they are medi-
tative love-poems—poems of earthly
love and explorations of religious love
(disguised sometimes as disillusion and
disgust).
* * * *
Friday’s Child: Wilfred Watson
(Faber). A first book of poems by a
Canadian author who has, apparently,
published little and obscurely even in
Canada. It is not hard to see why his
work has impressed British publishers.
Watson seems to be still search-
ing for his true form and style,
but this does not prevent almost
every piece included from possessing
a vigorous and genuine poetic merit.
At present his happiest achievements
are lyric ballads:—
O tree my mother
Your trunk is old. Green and deep lives
your leafy branch
And each green leaf winks its eye
With humming bird, sparrow aiy*
lemon finch
O tree my mother
What do you see with all those eyes,
old mother?
I see a black albatross bang over my
grave and I fear tomorrow’s
weather ....
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 376
Across
I—The1 —The soprano or the contralto lied
with emphasis. (10)
s—Was5 —Was dishonest in a song by
Schubert. (4)
B—Spineless Etarbe obeys this. (12)
10 —Von suggests O’Flaherty's mono-
gram. (2)
12 — Right-angle snake seen with
snakes in a table-game. (6)
13 — Cook makes this assault for a
club-swinger at baseball. (6)
16 —Gould accompanies you to the
big election meeting without
affectation. (9)
18 — Profundity. (5)
19 — Sweetest part of the cake hazard
when flying high. (5)
21 —The team’s snare which helps to
keep trousers tight at the waist-
line? (9)
23 — The villain of Lammermoor has
not changed. (6)
24 Toss up another way when the
resentful expression in the
steamer has too much to say. (6)
27—Girl is to take me back. (2)
29 and 30 —1-down giving an address
in the cape’s manner. (8,8)
31—Its draught is mixed when dis-
tracted and perplexed. (10)
Down
1 — One who is very much like
another uncouth idol. (8, 5)
2 No. 5 on the East Latvian is
like sentimentally melodramatic
stories. (11)
3 Pass a rope through a hole for a
medieval magistrate about Adam-
son’s mother. (5)
4 The Indian woman may wear
such improper airs. (4)
6 go after he is careless. (3)
7 Maroon component of a rope
street in London. '(6)
9 —Additional clauses who works at
various courses? (5)
11—The stockade and he make some
gift pro tern. (3,3,7)
14— The outermost bandage lawns
thrive with such hats and caps.
(3-8)
15— Stained prelate takes you to
heart. (4)
17 —Final cobbling equipment. (4)
20 —Grown-ups dispense with the
west and the north clusters. (6)
22—South has a breather when shot
from a sling. (5)
25 Square-cuts go to this Gilbertian
jester batting in a saucepan. (5)
26 Turkish magistrate and I heel
oyer. (4)
28 —Gippsland town duck is
swallowed by me. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 375


• *
w
:
••
I
4
thv.
ii
in
m
IS
•liSl
mill
wMI
m
m
m
im
m
•y.
m
w.
mi
f !/i!
m i
:>:'r
m
wu,
mma
an,
■ :, y
'l'
a ;
'in
vz
m
<s3*.
ihli
V///////A
W//A7////////////M
Vv.
V///MM
Hit or miss?
Tell-tale skid marks. Frankly, we don’t know what happened on this corner. But all motor-
ists know what can happen at danger points like this. They are a legacy of the past. Bush
paths became bullock tracks, then roads. Inevitably they took the line of least resistance. They
were hit or miss roads — born of expediency, built without overall plan. But modem commun-
ities cannot afford horse-and-buggy hangovers like dangerous curves.
Today’s complex transport network requires direct routes and straight roads for safety, speed
and efficiency. The nation — and you — benefit from time
and cost savings. Money spent on getting rid of dangerous bends
is not only a life saver — it’s an economic necessity.
You, the motorist, pay a petrol tax for road betterment. Since
1926 this tax has yielded £310,000,000. Only £142,000,000
of it has been allocated for roads. Isn’t it logical that all of
this tax should be put back into the roads?
This could be a first step towards a national roads plan — and
towards getting your local roads made safer.
G
m
it
NOT THIS
THIS
DIESEL ENGINES . TRACTORS . MOTOR GRADERS . EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
CATERPILLAR
of
Q\>
\t* G
o^ 5
* CATERPILLAR AND CAT ARfl
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.A*
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
Ll2O
