

/
mm
SOLERO
SWEET OJR dr
The Bulletin
“RUZILLA”— 2O
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3975
Wednesday, April 18, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sytiney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 294: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppeli.
UPPER BOCKHAMPTON PRESERVES THE BIRTHPLACE OF THOMAS HARDY
IN a picturesque thatched cottage at Upper Bockhampton, two miles north
of Dorchester, the great novelist and poet Thomas Hardy was born in
1840. The cottage is now under the care of the National Trust and is open
to visitors, many of whom journey from distant parts of the world to see the
sights and scenes associated with the writer whose novels gained such wide
renown in the 19th century.
Thomas Hardy was the son of a builder, and his mother was of an old
Dorset family who had owned land in the County for many generations.
Hardy received his early education at the little village school at Lower
Bockhampton, and later at Dorchester. At the age of 16 he was articled to
an architect. He made rapid progress, and seven years later, at the age of
23, he had gained the medal of the Institute of British Architects. But he
soon took up writing as a profession. Novel-writing was forced upon him as
a means of livelihood although poetry remained nearest his heart throughout
his life.
The scenes of many of his novels, of which ‘‘Tess of the
D’Urbervilles” is perhaps the most famous, are laid in the counties of
Dorset, Wiltshire and Hampshire, an area which has been given the
literary cognomen of Wessex, and the novels are referred to collectively as
the Wessex Novels.
Hardy described his native countryside with a faithfulness born of long
intimacy. Though he changed place-names, the localities are easily recognised
today. The Casterbridge of the novel is the town of Dorchester; Melchester,
Salisbury; Christminster, Winchester; Shaston, Shaftesbury, etc. They appear
in such well-known novels as “The Mayor of Casterbridge,” “After the Fair,”
“Under the Greenwood Tree” and “Far from the Madding Crowd.”
In 1890 Thomas Hardy was awarded the Order of Merit and academic
honours were showered upon him. He was twice married and in 1928 he died
at the age of eighty-eight.


snail
iltiui
If you liave the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL,
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters: —
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149
; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21
~ Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Pe
-CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 856) AGE
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sy«
A service for readers. That difficult to c.-
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text ooo».
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only u s
cessful.
The Red Page
THREE AUSTRALIAN POETS
Comparisons are odious: but what
are reviewers for, if not to be odious?
Therefore without further ado it can
be said that of three handsome new
books of Australian poetry from
Angus and Robertson probably the
most interesting is Nancy Keesing’s
Three Men and Sydney.
That craven qualification “probably”
has to be used here, and also the non-
committal “interesting,” because the
collection includes Judith Wright’s The
Two Fires, and one would not like to
have to defend too ardently the asser-
tion that Nancy Keesing is more
interesting that this most accomplished
writer, still less that she has written
better poetry. It would take a deal of
proving.
Still, on the whole, it seems true
that, book for book, you get more
good poetry for your money in “Three
Men and Sydney” than in “The Two
Fires.”
The third of the books, Harold
Stewart’s Orpheus, is disappointing.
One has said before, and must say it
again here, that Harold Stewart can
sometimes “fill up his mouth with
beautiful sounds and warble like a
veritable magpie”: that is, he is an
expert (except when he rhymes “more”
with “awe”!) at deliberately-composed
verbal music of an onomatopoeic kind
—the art, with a difference, of
Tennyson:—
And half exposed recline the lower
hills
Lyrical with a choir of little rills.
Also, drawing his inspiration from
Chinese paintings and the pastoral
verses of Spenser or Pope, he has a
way all of his own of painting verbal
pictures, as fine in line as they are pure
in color. He allows himself —what is
rare in modern poetry —space, leisure,
patience in which to exercise his crafts-
manship:—
Surely simplicity arranged the lines
Wherein her surplice, which
surpasses white,
Clings to her waist; and then, as it
declines,
Streams into folds and sweeps away
to the right
To pour a pool of drapery and trail
Beside her like the slow foot of a
snail;
While across this channelled slope
of snow
Her windborne sash and ribbons
float and flow
Like fluttering mists and chasing
clouds below.
Also, as in the delightful philosophy
of Hui Neng, who, like the Cheshire
cat, thinks that the best way to get any-
where is to keep walking straight ahead,
or in the anecdote of Chuang-tzu, who
dreamed he was a butterfly and then
woke up fearing that he himself might
only be something dreamed by a
butterfly, he has humor. And he has
had for his own private territory this
world of Chinese art, poetry and
philosophy: which, as the East
awakens, does not seem so far from
everyday Australian significance as it
might have seemed a few years ago.
All these qualities are still to be
found in his new book: but, except in
a crisp phrase or telling line here and
there—“the oak of bones”; “And blow
the universe away” —they are seldom
apparent in the sequence of reinterpre-
tations of the Greek myths which pro-
vide the bulk of the contents.
Amounting as a whole to a long
poem about how a poet writes a poem
—by going through Hell like Orpheus
after Eurydice—and, by implication,
how a man may find his soul, these
mythological poems remind one, at
best, of some of the cloudier adventures
of Shelley; and, at worst, in their hotch-
potch of deities and personifications
and their didactic style, of O’Dowd. In
general there is nothing very new in
the reinterpretation of the Orpheus
myth as an experience of the soul—
Freud himself took most of his
terminology from the Greeks —and the
versification, which might compensate
for everything in a writer of Harold
Stewart’s dexterity, hardly goes beyond
a mechanical neatness. You have only
to compare a stanza from these verses:
Eros with virile shafts of light
Quickens the womb, and not the
night;
Nor can Persephone escape
The harvest ritual of rape . . .
with a stanza from Judith Wright, in
the same form of the quatrain:—
Nothing is as strange as love—
love is like a foreign land.
Yet its natives find their way
natural as hand-in-hand . . .
to see what is missing here in Harold
Stewart: melody: and, ultimately, the
profound poetic emotion of which
melody is the embodiment. The com-
parison is not quite fair, because one
does not expect lyric melody in a
didactic poem: nevertheless, the absence
of genuine poetic feeling is a fact, and
the compensations of thought and versi-
fication are inadequate. Though the
Chinese pieces remain exquisite, the
book as a whole conveys the impres-
sion, precisely, that Harold Stewart has
been marking-time.
Where exactly, as well as from “pro-
found poetic emotion,” does the beauti-
ful, slightly wistful music of Judith
Wright’s lyric come from? Techni-
cally, that is an easy question to
answer. From the “n’s.” Every line
is crowded with them, resonant as the
string of a violin.
But Judith Wright is not the kind of
writer who deliberately sits down with
a handful of “n’s” and juggles them
into a poem: hers is the largely-uncon-
scious artistry of a born poet; and,
loose though some of the travel-poems
are and repetitive as are some of her
themes, moods and devices (but what
poet ever escaped repetition, having
beaten-out a style and marked-out a
world?), it is enough to say of “The
Two Fires” that it contains six or
maybe a dozen poems of the rare
quality we have come to expect —deep,
rich, compassionate and hauntingly
beautiful.
There is the feeling for the Aus-
tralian earth in the lovely “Wildflower
Plain”; the feeling for the Australian
tradition in “Two Old Men” and in that
astonishing stanza . about her grand-
father:—
Riding at noon and ninety years ago,
my grandfather was beckoned by a
ghost—
a black accoutred warrior armed for
fighting,
who sank into bare plain, as now into
time past.
There is the feeling for femininity in the
even more astonishing picture of her
legendary great - great - grandmother
who, powerless to help, sat sketching
the scene while a child was swept to-
wards a waterfall. There are the love-
poems, the seeking through flesh to
spirit as in “The Man Beneath the
Tree.” And, above all, however it may
be offset by some gloomy atomic-bomb
poems, there is the impassioned celebra-
tion of the spirit of life as it moves on
to “evil and good”—a theme struck
most notably in “Storm,” which,
though owing no debt to it, recalls the
image of life rushing into recurrence in
that mysterious poem of Robert D.
Fitz Gerald’s, “The Face of the Waters”:
And round each headland of the
world, each drenching rock,
crowding each wild spray-drop, as in
the womb’s calm lying,
they beat and whirl on the waves,
the invisible legion
of momentary crystals, less-than-a-
second’s-tick
lives, love’s first and everywhere
creation;
so small, so strong, that nothing of
all this mad rock-torn
surge and violence, not the storm’s
final desperation
touches {hem,
busy in the unhurt stillness, breeding
and dying.
Mention of water brings us con-
veniently to Nancy Keesing, for her
book is full of it:—
Who would weary of watching
water:
Harbor water, coiled and oily
Round wharves and moorings,
Or fresh and glistening
Out in the channels where currents
tumble it?
And who would tire of listening?
From one point of view this is all
Sydney Harbor water (with a bit of
Wagga flood added for good measure)
—interesting for its setting, more
interesting still as a commentary on the
city; where, says Nancy Keesing,
Every dweller in Sydney dies by
water
One way or another.
It is a wicked, if enchanting, town we
live in, full of crime, greed, poverty,
distrust, hatred, corruption; and the
Harbor reflects it all like “an ominous
opal.”
But in its deepest significance this
water is life itself, seen in a peculiarly
feminine vision which is not unlike
Judith Wright’s stormy ocean of
creation, though again without any debt
owing from poet to poet. In the
strongest, the most impetuous poem in
the book—though the titlepiece “Three
Men and Sydney,” for its local interest,
may be more often reprinted in
anthologies—the solid earth itself, as
well as all mortal existence, is dis-
solved in these wild waters: —
On the baked hill the slide of
eroded earth
Is suction and grapple of the
terrible undertow
That you cannot expect to escape;
the hill is a verge
And the smut-aired shuttered room;
the storms blow
Whether by day or night, for a week
or a year ;
Great glassy tons crash under, ' a
shrill wind screams
And the swimmers thrash huge
shoulders and dive through the
breakers,
Being constantly at the margins, the
place of extremes.
Into this submarine world, mysteri-
ous, fecund and cruel as it appears, the
poet, searching for truth, plunges like
a—like a what? Hardly a mermaid,
these days. Like a gannet, then; or a
spear-fisher. Sometimes she brings up
the most surprising fish:—
Oh, one from his drowned eyes saw
Henry Parkes in a little boat
go sailing past, and the old man
said: “It’s my beard keeps me
afloat;
when it blows a gale
I use it for a sail.”
Sometimes, for purposes only dimly
perceptible, she pursues the wavering
shapes of a young girl, or a friend in
Paris, or an elusive personage named
Caroline. And, at her clearest and best,
she catches, fathoms deep under the
pressure of modem life, the lost-souls
of the city: beggars, crooks, wastrels,
“Ophelias” and phantoms passing in
the streets. As a curious contrast in
this world of fluidity one notices that
the old lady so excellently portrayed in
“Portrait of a Pioneer” is “hewn from
granite.”
Remarkably well-written though such
pieces as “Being Constantly at the
Margins,” the title-poem and others
are, Nancy Keesing seldom achieves the
rounded perfection of Judith Wright’s
best lyrics. Some of the technical faults,
like the forced rhymes in “From
Circular Quay,” are quite shocking;
other poems, like “To a Friend in
France,” run on too much; others, like
“Over Jittery Sydney,” which is really
three poems crammed into one, do not
move smoothly and logically from be-
ginning to end; others are obscure. But
in the end it is possible to see even the
faults—moments when the eyes are
blinded with saltwater—as submerged
and unimportant in that tide of poetry,
curious, searching and ample, which
fills the book.
D.S.
Greek Penguins
The Penguin people have been
devoting a lot of printer’s-ink and
paper lately to the Greeks, and with
a sound instinct. The Greeks, or their
great men, were probably the pro-
foundest people who have ever visited
this earth, and probably nothing
essential of their art and thought has
been lost—although the Vandals, the
Christians and the Turks did their best
to destroy all evidence of it.
We only know their painting by
description, but we can presume that
it was as lovely as their sculpture and
their architecture because their attitude
to it was the same as their attitude to
those arts and was the exact antithesis
of the attitudes of the modern move-
ment.
The monks of the Dark Ages busied
themselves scraping the thought off the
Greek parchments to write missals on
them, but enough survived the process
to indicate what the rest was like; and
modern philosophers are still striving
to find answers to the same old ques-
tions about what is knowledge, for
asking which Socrates got the hemlock;
and the best modem playwrights, like
Eugene O’Neill, are still trying to write
plays as intense and profound and on
precisely the same subjects as the old
Greek playwrights. The nuclear-
physicists have a great deal more prac-
tical knowledge than the Greeks —who
anticipated their atomic theory, but
didn’t make bombs with it —but it is
doubtful if they have more wisdom;
and up to date no nation has invented
a better social or political system than
the Greeks had, though the Russians
think they have.
Greek economics was built on
slavery, and in modem ears slavery
has an ugly connotation; but it is yet
to be proved that there are fewer
people doing what they’re told, not
because they want to but because they
have to, in America and Russia than
there were in ancient Sparta, and it
is doubtful whether it would be
pleasanter from the point of view of
freedom to be in a labor-camp or an
Australian union than 40 be a slave
in the household of Pericles of Athens.
The Greeks weren’t very good at
inventing refrigerators or vacuum-
cleaners, but they invented sufficiently
good tools to build their temples and
carve their sculptures; and certainly
nobody has invented a profounder
religion.
As evidence of the depth of the
Greek mind in this respect there is the
Greek Myths, which the scholarly
Robert Graves retells in two fat
volumes in the Penguin Classics series.
Graves reviews the myths in terms of
modem archaeological and anthro-
pological research in a very illuminat-
ing manner.
He leaves no stone unturned to show
that the myths were attempts to explain
much more primitive and grisly cus-
toms, such as the practice of electing a
sacred king and giving him a good
time and lots of wives for one year and
then hanging him, the idea being that
his blood rejuvenated the earth and
ensured good crops. Some mock kings
made themselves sufficiently liked or
respected during their short term of
office to stave off the evil day, and thus
dynasties were established; but it was
regarded as a very wicked thing to
do, and it had to be rationalised in
some way.
Some early Greek societies were
matriarchal, and the tribal queen chose
an annual lover from her entourage of
young men for sacrifice at mid-winter
{Continued on page 35)


Plenty of Bottled Beer available. Ground Floor, Goulburn St.
We deliver Daily to 325 suburbs in the Metropolitan Area.
mm
m
■
y '••• -
y V>:v- :
\
mm
m
Pfi
“King EE” last in a smart dress shoe in
Tan willow and Black calf. Available in
full and half sizes, 5 to 10. Price, 89/6.
“Mocco E” Brogue in a medium weight
that is ideal for winter. Black calf, Mahog-
any. Sizes are 5 to 11. Priced at 96/6 pair.
Gusset Shoe with elastic across instep for
snug fit. Black calf and Tan willow. E and
F fittings. Sizes are 5-10. Price 89/6 pair.
lortkll custom built shoes for men
m
m ■
■ :
:■
mmi
:: :
PI
L -v.'
m
-
*
m
m
%
m
WM
1
m
:■ -
mm
in.
' V
■
mm
m
. i ■- -
N
■ :V
*
a
m
M
a
Hi
Left: “Byron,” the long extended last with the stitched heel seats
in Black calf and Tan willow. Full and half sizes, 5-10. 92/6 pair.
Centre: “English” last in E, F, and G fittings. Available in Black
calf, Tan willow, and Glace kid. Sizes 5 to 11. Price 89/6 pair.
Right: “Power Last,” continental 3-hole derby style shoe in
Black calf, Tan willow, Navy or Brown suede. 5-10. 95/6 pair.
MEN’S SHOE DEPART. LOWER GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY POSTAGE EXTRA


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 397 S
Wednesday, April 18, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE LAST OUTPOST
THE result of the Ceylon elections shows how little
political reactions can be forecast in the East. It is
unexpected and disturbing from an Australian
defence point of view.
The drift in Ceylon has been a Leftist drift,
and it has overwhelmed all commonsense and
awareness of Communist danger. Solomon Bandar-
anaike, the leader of the People’s United Front, the
name of which speaks for itself, is the kind
of Oriental leader who is being produced by the
desire of Western intellectuals to educate the
Asiatic—the kind which is being produced in bulk
at Australian universities by Australian bounty, and
which for long has been incubated at Oxford in
particular, which has a fatal facility for developing
overseas graduates who hate the hand that feeds
them and their minds, and who retire to their own
countries to oppose for the rest of their lives the
system which gave them their opportunities in
youth.
One of the most alarming features of world
politics is that the Governments of South-East Asia
and the Middle East are falling into the hands of
English- or French-speaking persons whose minds
are the repositories of the kind of Western thinking
which the Evafts and the Crippses represented.
That Ceylon should be captured by a party which
has the characteristics of this class, with a decisive
majority and mandate, is a staggering blow to the
free world and also to Australian defence. How
far it reflects the gratitude of the Ceylonese for
making them the heart of that Australian-conceived
institution the Colombo Plan it is perhaps better
not to consider too closely.
Ceylon is a rich little island and the centre of
the tea trade of Australia and the United King-
dom. It contains naval- and air-bases in the Indian
Ocean before whose resources the Japanese were
turned back in their drive towards India and the
Red Sea. In maritime terms, Colombo is almost the
geographical centre of the world.
Even in the air-age, in world-war this is very
important. It commands both the Bay of Bengal
and the Arabian Sea, the air-routes and the main
sea-routes through Suez to Australia and the Far
East.
Ceylon’s Indian population has a close linkage
with India, and is powerful enough to be a great
political and disturbing influence. It now holds,
strategically, a commanding and outflanking posi-
tion in the hands of a Leftist Government elected
by an overwhelming majority (51) over any other
single party, with a divided Opposition which
includes as the next-largest bloc in the House 14
Trotskyites, (who are more Communist than the
Communists) and three straightout Communists.
The only party which stands forthrightly for
unequivocal association as part of the British
Commonwealth is the former Government—
Kotalawala’s United National Party, which has
been reduced by the elections from holding 54 seats
to the status of a small minority with only eight.
Under present arrangements, Ceylon is a
Dominion of the British Commonwealth. It is
independent in its government, recognises the Queen
as its sovereign, and has a Ceylonese Governor-
General. It has a defence agreement with the
United Kingdom under which mutual military and
naval defence assistance is provided for, together
with the defence of external communications—a
matter in which Ceylon has the best end of the
bargain by a long chalk. The U.K., under the
agreement, has the right to bases on the island and
is committed to provide adequate assistance in the
development of local defence-forces—an undertak-
ing which it has generously carried out. Ceylon
takes part in Prime Ministers’ Conferences and has
been under agreement to follow their decisions.
Generally speaking, it is very much in the position
of Australia constitutionally, but gains much
more by the arrangement. It is too much to hope
that this arrangement will continue unless forced
on Ceylon by commercial * necessity, which is
unlikely.
If the election propaganda of Mr. Bandaranaike
means anything, Ceylon is headed for a republican
Government, at best thinly tied to the Common-
wealth, with an acknowledgment of the Queen as
the Commonwealth’s head, this, in view of the ultra-
Leftist and nationalist (or pretended nationalist)
leanings of the new Administration, something of
a farce or deceptive device to free the country
from its mutual obligations as a Commonwealth
member. Expropriation of European tea-planters
who made the industry has been foreshadowed.
The fruits of the policy initiated by the Attlee
Government under the spiritual leadership in
Dominion affairs of Sir Stafford Cripps, and in
Australia under “Labor” rule, directed by Dr.
Evatt and an admiring daily press, are piling up.
The more the Commonwealth is ready to concede
or to give in Asia, the more it seems to be losing.
India is now on the fence between West and
Communist bloc, trying to have the best of both
worlds. The Arab world is divided and antagonised
by the creation of Israel and Communist machina-
tion. Burma has gone. The bulwark of Indo-China
is as good as gone. \ Indonesia is a frightening
conglomerate of revolution, military government
and disorganisation, its policy infused with a
hysteria which may impel it to the fatal step
of forcible attack on West New Guinea in defiance
of United Nations opinion.
The arrangements for Malayan independence
are nearly complete. It would be an optimist who
believed that it was not on the way to becoming a
Chinese-controlled satrapy. Pakistan and Irak have
remained fairly steadfast adherents of the West;
but Irak’s remaining in the membership of the
Baghdad pact is a precarious thing, based on local
and ephemeral reasons. The new Pakistan republic
has gone as far as it can go towards leaving the
Commonwealth without actually losing the benefit
inherent in being able to shelter under the Western
wing.
Ceylon, almost the last British Asian outpost
which is not a small enough plum to be plucked
in a night by a determined enemy, as are Aden and
Hong Kong, appears about to react to the pull of
the Red magnet and .the Kremlin blandishments
and concessional bribes which are being distributed
so freely throughout Asia.
It is a matter of vital importance to Australia.
We can do nothing about it so far as Ceylon is con-
cerned save to buckle to the task of keeping on
friendly relationships without weakening either this
country’s prestige or its position as a great member
of the British Commonwealth.
The position serves to advertise our growing
isolation in our own geographical zone and to point
to the need for development of Australian integral
defence and for a closer relationship in defence and
action between Australia and New Zealand. The
existing lack of unity between the Commonwealth
and the adjacent Dominion, with two separate and
scarcely associated defence-forces and no arrange-
ment for common command and integration in time
of emergency, is absurd.
Do We Understand Federation?
ALTHOUGH State and Federal powers were
defined by the Constitution over a half-century ago,
Australian electors still seem to be very hazy over
the division of rights and responsibilities.
Federation came about because of a general
feeling that the colonies could not continue indefi-
nitely without some closer form of association than
that of friendly neighbors. Local prides and
prejudices made complete union impossible, so
Federation was adopted as a compromise which
made the colonies one nation as far as the outside
world was concerned, but left them as sovereign
States in their own domestic fields. Fifty-five years
of Federation have accustomed Australians to
thinking of themselves as one people, yet they
have strongly resisted all attempts to extend the
powers of the central Government.
Of 23 proposals that have been put to the
electors by referendum, only four have been
assented to. This is not merely a matter of party
politics. Both “Labor” and Liberal Governments,
at the height of ‘their popularity, have had the
chastening experience of having the electors turn
down their advice. On the evidence of voting in
referendums, the Australian people still want their
State Governments. And on the evidence of many
wordy battles fought at Loan Council meetings and
Premiers’ Conferences, State Governments' are still
jealous of their rights, even if they are not always
conscious of their responsibilities. The Victorian
Government is at present challenging the validity
of uniform-taxation, and some of the other States
are giving at least lip-service to the cause. All
States are at loggerheads with the Commonwealth on
the twin questions of petrol-tax and the upkeep of
main roads.
It can be said, then, that all State Governments
steadfastly believe in the continuance of Federation.
This may seem rather strange in view of the fact
that “Labor” has been in office in four of the States
for a very long time —in N. S. Wales 15 years, in
Queensland 23, Tasmania 22 and Westralia (with
one gap from 1947 to 1953) 22 years—and a plank
of the A.L.P. platform is the abolition of State
Parliaments. No State “Labor” Government has
ever shown any desire to translate this policy into
practice. Even in the immediate post-war period
when “Labor” Governments were in office in five
States as well as in Canberra, no attempt was made.
There is really nothing remarkable in that.
Speaking in terms of the present day, it is ludicrous
to think that the Cahills and Gairs would
deliberately advocate a course of action which
would mean the end of their own jobs. Any
“Labor” Premier who urged such an action would
immediately be deposed by his caucus and replaced
by someone with a better sense of reality.
It would seem, then, that with the State Gov-
ernments and the people firmly in favor of Federa-
tion, the continued existence of the States is assured,
but this is by no means as certain as appears on
the surface. The States are continually, complain-
ing that their powers are being whittled away by
the Commonwealth’s control of the purse-strings,
yet, apart from talking, they do nothing about it—
the exception being Victoria’s challenge of uniform-
taxation. The tendency rather is for the States to
use their alleged financial impotence in a most
blatant manner for political gain. Spendthrift
Premiers find it expedient to take all the credit they
can grab for money spent on “works” and at the
same time pass the buck to the Federal Govern-
ment when someone has to be blamed because
there’s no more money to spend. An enlightened
electorate should be able to see through all this, but
the continued success of the manoeuvre doesn’t
encourage the belief that the electorate is
enlightened. Many State elections have been won
on issues which should not logically have had any
bearing on a State poll.
In 1953 the N.S.W. “Labor” Government went
to the people with a record of misdeeds as long as a
lottery-winner’s shopping-list. It had handed out
cushy jobs right and left to its political friends,
including one to its former leader; its unfinished
works were as numerous as its unredeemed promises,
and for three years it had been kept in office by
the vote of a man it had expelled from the party.
On its record it didn’t stand a bolter’s chance of
winning the election. Yet by the simple device of
cashing-in on the temporary unpopularity of the
Menzies Federal Government, it came back with
a thumping majority. The theme was a simple one:
the Federal Government had refused to give Cahill
his fair share of tax-money and had starved him
of much-needed loan-money. Ignoring State issues
and the realities of the uniform-tax agreement and
Loan Council procedure, the electors swallowed
Cahill’s preposterous story and its equally illogical
corollary that the cure for the malady was another
three years of Cahill government. A few weeks
later Gair used similar tactics in Queensland with
equal success.
The most recent example of the technique was
seen in Westralia only this month, when “Labor”
Premier Hawke, faced with almost certain defeat,
seized on the Menzies tax-increases as an election-
winning issue. Basing his campaign on such
slogans as “the achievements of the Hawke Gov-
ernment are threatened by the Menzies-McLarty
depression-plan,” he coasted back to office. Until
the increases in excise, petrol-tax and sales-tax
were announced, there had been no indication that
the Westralian electors were even aware of “the
achievements of the Hawke Government,” except,
perhaps, in a negative sense, and there was not the
slightest evidence that Menzies consulted McLarty
about his economic measures.
Not that “Labor” is alone in exploiting Federal
issues. In 1947, when Prime Minister Chifley sprang
his bank-nationalisation surprise, the Liberal-
Country party Opposition in Victoria precipitated
an election and defeated the Cain “Labor” Govern-
ment on bank-nationalisation, which had nothing
at all to do with State politics.
Under the party-political system it is natural
that parties will seize upon the issue they think
offers them the best chance of victory. As against
that, an educated and politically-conscious com-
munity should be capable of distinguishing between
true and false issues. But unfortunately there is
little in the history of recent State elections to
suggest that this condition exists in Australia. The
electors have shown by their voting at referendums
that they do not want the power of the States
reduced. They tolerate a system under which the
Commonwealth has the responsibility of raising
most of the tax-money and all the loan-money, but
the States have the privilege of spending much of
the former and (in recent years) all the latter. Yet
apparently they so little understand the system that
they will accept any plausible tale an irresponsible
political party tells them. If Federation is to con-
tinue the State Governments must face their
responsibilities. Electors must insist on their facing
them. Otherwise State Governments will disappear
through sheer incompetence and inability to
survive.


A.L.P. COURT-ROOM


PLAIN ENGLISH
Danger in Canaan
While the eyes of the world’s press are
centred on the marriage of a Miss Kelly
to the Prince of Monaco, a principality
of which the area is 368 acres or there-
abouts —say, equal to that part of Sydney
which lies between Circular Quay and the
Town Hall and between Pitt-street and
Darling Harbor —the African and Middle
Eastern Arab worlds seem to be dissolv-
ing gradually into a melting-pot of war.
Nobody seems to care. There appears
to be a feeling abroad that any conflagra-
tion can be stopped on the instant by
firing a Jindivik or something at Cairo
if it becomes necessary to defend the free
world.
There can be no doubt, however, about
the seriousness of what is happening in
the Middle East. Egyptian aggression
against Israel is positive and bloody, and
the negotiations of Mr. Hammarskjoeld,
secretary of U.N.0., are only likely to
have the usual result of intervention by
that meddling body—the introduction of
confusion behind which the aggressors
can consolidate and through which they
ultimately gain most of their objectives.
Meanwhile, the northern and eastern
Arab States abutting Israel have seen
their opportunity and do not intend to
lose it if they can help it. The President
of Syria, Sukri-el-Kuwatly, and King
Hussein of Jordan melodramatically
swore before the tomb of Saladin on
April 10 to liberate Palestine from the
Jews and restore the status quo ante
which had existed for hundreds of years.
Israel, of course, is looking for the help
of the United States and of the United
Kingdom, whose soldiery it was murder-
ing and mutilating a few years ago in
the interests of Jewish “freedom.” It is
difficult to understand how the position
can be stabilised, more especially since
Israel’s economic position is artificial and
would be disastrous if it were not for
the world boom in prices, the demand for
Israeli products and its shipping-fleet.
Israel has had incidents on four borders
with Arab States; more are bound to
follow.
The small Jewish nation is the continual
target of fanatical propaganda by the ex-
patriated Arabs who were cast out of
what is now Israeli territory to make way
for Jews from all parts of the world.
With France likely to be involved in a
major war in Algeria, calling for up to
200,000 troops, and with Morocco trying
to oust both French and Spanish finally,
Communist propaganda is savagely active
in Egypt, Tunisia, Libya and the Arab
countries and Cyprus, aiming at the pro-
duction of a holy war against the West.
Such a conflict Moscow could finance
and arm in the same way that it stood
behind the North Koreans and Chinese
in the Far East without being really
involved. The situation is not at all
rosy, especially seeing that so large a pro-
portion of the world’s oil-supply comes
from the centre of the Arab whirlwind.
The Communists are doing everything
possible to see that the Israeli disturbance
is not calmed-down. They definitely are
anxious to see the West militarily in-
volved since it would strengthen their own
position in Europe and Asia and drain
away Nato resources. A continuance of
the fight, even if it doesn’t succeed in
bringing the Arab world and the U.S. into
conflict, would in any case strongly
embarrass the U.S. Government in a
Presidential election-year. Not to give
active support to Israel, .which has been
described as a colony of East-side New
York, would be to court serious political
reprisals against the Eisenhower
Administration during the campaign.
The position is not pretty or encourag-
ing, and the handling of its difficulties by
everybody except Moscow is marked by
unsureness and lack of grip. But, of
course, Moscow has the initiative and can
call the tune.
Northern Territory Rice
If the hopes of its originators are realised,
the plan to begin large-scale rice-growing
in the Northern Territory will be the
most important thing to have happened
in northern Australia for many years.
The possibilities of rice as a crop for
the Territory have been canvassed for
more than half-a-century, without any
practical results, but in recent years hopes
have been revived that there may be
s®mething in the idea after all.
Tfie most positive move so far is the
project authorised by the Rice Develop-
ment Agreement Ordinance, passed last
week by the Northern Territory Legis-
lative Council. Under this , scheme a
company known as Territory Rice, Ltd.,
will be given an option over 750,000
acres between the Stuart Highway and
Arnhem Land. The company will be
granted a 30-year lease and must take up
500,000 acres of the area within 15 years
—beginning with at least 5000 acres in
each of the first three years. It must also
subdivide at least half the leases after
10 years and must provide housing, shop-
ping-facilities, community buildings and
build any roads, railways or airstrips
required. The Government undertakes
not to grant any other agricultural leases
for large-scale development in the area
withih the next five years, and will con-
sider granting assisted passages to New
Australians to work the land.
The organisation behind Territory
Rice, Ltd., is Mainguard (Australia), Ltd.,
which is required by the agreement to
reserve at least a quarter of the capital
for subscription by Australian interests.
The Government will assist in carrying-
out experiments to select the varieties of
rice best suited to the locality. Two rice-
research stations are already operating
along the Adelaide River and the
Administration also maintains a
quarantine-station for the introduction
of seed-rice. The land involved in the
scheme is watered by the Adelaide and
Mary Rivers and the West, South and
East Alligator Rivers.
If the plan succeeds it will be valuable
to Australia from two points of view. It
will help to develop the Northern Terri-
tory and increase its population—a vital
defence-need —and it will assist the
overseas-trade position as the rice pro-
duced will be an export-crop; the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area already
produces more than enough for Australian
needs.
The provision for assistance to New
Australians will need some watching; it
must not be allowed to lead to the forma-
tion of a foreign enclave in the area. The
population of the Territory, 82 per cent.
Australian-born and 94 per cent. British
at the last census, is slightly below 17,000.
Any considerable influx of European
migrants would upset the balance much
more so than in the more thickly-
populated parts of the Commonwealth.
Migrants should be accepted by all means,
but the pioneering nature of the project
should appeal to the imagination of
young Australians in a way no other
land-development scheme has done for
generations. It is to be hoped that the
sponsors of the plan do not neglect to
make this appeal.
Evatiian Finance
The debate on the Government’s anti-
inflation proposals and the Opposition’s
censure-move ended in confusion for the
Opposition, whose leader is anything but
a financial genius. Dr. Evatt approaches
every financial measure purely from a
political viewpoint: “This was intro-
duced by the Menzies Government;
therefore it must be horrible.” And often,
that is about the only lucid explanation
he seems able to give.
His speech against the so-called “little
Budget” was one of the weakest efforts
offered by a top-rank politician for a
long time. It gave the impression that
he was reciting the contents of some-
body else’s not-very-well-charged mind
without understanding what he was
reciting.
It was sometimes difficult to fbllow
his argument or even to reconcile his
allegations with the facts, much less with
economic theory.
It was particularly hard to understand
his statement that “there must be a
united attack, a non-party attempt to
build the loan-market, to restore the con-
fidence of the small investors in the
Government of the country” in the light
of the fact that for six years he has done
everything to shake confidence in the
Government, has done everything to
induce in the minds of small investors
the belief that ruin lies round the corner
because of the conditions of govern-
ment, and that every Administration
except a “Labor” one pledged to
nationalisation of banks and industry is
inept, untrustworthy and dishonest of
purpose.
This persistent propaganda, backed-up
at times by interested newspaper-
proprietors and pressure-groups, has done
much to shake confidence in Govern-
ment loans, though, of course, it has not
been so great an influence in the market
as human nature.
Investors, especially small investors,
can scarcely by expected to put their
money into Government loans at low
rates of interest when Father Christ-
mases in the hire-purchase business are
prepared to offer much higher rates with
seemingly reasonable security.
Yet the essence of Dr. Evatt’s main
argument against the raising of bank-
interest and loan-rates to compete with
the borrowers for time-payment» and
capital investment in non-reproductive
industry seems to make him the cham-
pion of both sides at once —-of the home-
builder who has to pay higher rates and
of the fat-man financier of the time-
payment and consumer-goods industries
who passes on his high interest —much
higher than that of the banks and home-
loan concerns —to the community at
large, which Dr. Evatt apparently doesn’t
mind seeing bled as the price of its
spending-spree.
The facts given by the Prime Minister
make his position unassailable, and even
a desperate press-campaign in Sydney to
frighten the sharemarket has not had
any effect. This makes it clear that the
Government lias the general support of
the financial community whatever
grumbling may be done by sectional
interests and by “Labor” leaders and
individuals.
The crucial fact is that there is an
inflationary demand for capital which
far exceeds the capital available, much
of it for the production of consumer-
goods which add nothing to the wealth
or growth of the country, about which
Evatt professes to be so much con-
cerned. The figures given by Menzies in
his reply to Evatt cannot be refuted:
Federal and State demands for capital
last year amounted to £lBO million. This
year the demand is for £193 million. In
the private-investment field the demand
rose between 1954 and 1955 from £725
million to £833 million. In other words,
“in the last year or two we have been
endeavoring to raise and spend for
capital purposes in Australia twice as
much as we have been currently saving.”
It was noticeable that there was no
demand from Evatt for more saving, or
for the curtailment of expenditure on
beer, pleasure-cars and lottery-tickets.
That would offend the mob vote which
gives him his majority vote in Barton—
such as it is.
G.M.-H. Research
Fellowships
In all countries today the cry is for more
technicians, more skilled tradesmen, more
qualified engineers and scientific workers.
The new republics of Asia find themselves
more handicapped by this shortage of
trained men than by almost anything else,
and even highly industrialised countries
like Britain and America complain of a
shortage in the upper strata of qualified
men —the ones on whom, in the main, a
country depends for improvement in
industrial and scientific techniques. Aus-
tralia, is in the same plight, as our uni-
versities are continually warning us. One
reason is the scale of relative rewards;
when unskilled youths can earn big money
at process work it is rather difficult to
convince them of the advantages of
learning a skilled trade. Similar com-
parisons make many university graduates
wonder whether their years of study have
been worth the time and cost. But in the
higher grades another factor has been the
lack of facilities for post-graduate work
and the high cost of obtaining it over-
seas. Commonwealth scholarships have
largely solved the problem of university
fees and expenses for thousands of
students, but these grants carry the student
only as far as graduation.
For this reason the General Motors-
Holden’s fellowship-plan, announced last
week, will be welcomed by universities
and students alike. It is a scheme to make
available at Australian universities 25
post-graduate fellowships, each valued at
from £BOO to £l2OO a year. The fellow-
ships may be granted in any faculty, with
preference to graduates in engineering,
science and commerce who intend to
follow careers in industry or teaching.
Twenty of the fellowships will be
allocated as follows: Australian
National University, Sydney and Mel-
bourne Universities, each 3 ; Adelaide,
Queensland and Westralian Universities
and the N. S. Wales University of Tech-
nology, each 2 ; New England University,
University of Tasmania and the Canberra
University College, each 1.
The remaining five fellowships will be
allotted to other outstanding graduates
at the discretion of the Vice-Chancellors’
Committee. In addition to the payments
made to the successful graduates each
fellowship will be accompanied by a grant
of £3OO to the university concerned, to be
used as it thinks fit.
The total annual cost of the plan will
be about £37,500, making it the most
considerable gift of its sort made in Aus-
tralia for many years.
Art Competitions
The Unesco arts-committee has drawn-up
a model set of conditions for art-exhibi-
tions in Australia and has invited The
Bulletin, amongst others, to comment.
The conditions, as outlined, are fair
enough, and should be useful as a guide
to those innumerable municipal councils'
which, all over Australia, have taken to
inviting artists to frame, pack and rail
or air-freight their pictures far and wide
on the otf-chance of picking-up fifty-
guineas. The only point needing recon-
sideration is the suggestion that prizes
should not be offered for oils, watercolors,
sculpture, etc., as separate media, but
simply for the best painting. That —oils
always bulking larger in adjudicators’
minds —would mean that watercolors,
sculpture or drawing would never, any-
where, win a prize.
But the best piece of advice anyone
can offer to a municipal council think-
ing of holding yet another art-competition
is— don’t.
It is not worth an artist’s while to go to
the expense of framing and freighting to
compete in a lottery of this sort. It
wastes too much of his time. It is be-
neath his dignity thus to peddle his wares
all over the country ; and it is harmful
to his prestige if he doesn’t win.
And, because the best artists, for these
reasons, rarely bother to send in, it is
doubtful if these competitions really shed
more than an occasional fitful gleam of
light in the darkness of the suburbs and
the country towns.
By all means let the municipal councils
and other public bodies support Austra-
lian art. But do it by buying from the
regular exhibitions of the established
societies—which offer a selection of the
year’s best work, and which can always
do with more sales —and by displaying
travelling-exhibitions borrowed from the
National Galleries.
Black Wednesday
Some grim humorist in the A.L.P.
christened the second week in April the
Week of the Long Knives, but it differed
from Hitler’s gory festival in that blood-
shed was not contemplated.
The original plan came from the
A.L.P. Federal Executive, whose presi-
dent, F. E. Chamberlain, a few weeks
ago engagingly forecast the elimination of
careerists from the party. Its immediate
plan was to “clean up” the N. S. Wales
Grouper-controlled A.L.P. branch,
elected at last year’s State conference
despite the most desperate efforts of Dr.
Evatt and his followers, and a display of
vote-wangling, “steering - committee”
manoeuvres and plain, honest, open
chicanery which would have made a
thimble-and-pea merchant envious.
It was intended that the A.L.P. Federal
Executive should try and purge Messrs.
Kane and Rooney, assistant-secretary and
organiser of the State branch, who were
regarded as the archfiends and
Machiavellis of sectarianism and
Groupism—in fact, the backbone of the
Group-organisation in N. S. Wales. It
was then contemplated, if this pilot-plant
operation went well, that the whole
A.L.P. State Executive should be tried
for heresy, careerism, sabotage or devia-
tionism —any charge would do —in order
that they could be ousted and replaced
so that Evatt’s followers would have the
organisation of the 1956 State conference
in their hands.
But the A.L.P. State Executive, which
ostensibly has the backing of the Cahill
Government, showed no tendency to die
on the political gallows. They arrived at
Room 32 with their own victims, well in
advance of their prospective judges and,
with strangling-cords in their hands, pro-
ceeded to take steps to decimate the
Higher Authority.
The Groupers had organised disputes-
committees, one under the chairmanship
of M. McCarney, which set out to try
the secretary, Newcastle secretary, the
president, three organisers and a member
of the management-committee of the
Operative Painters’ Union, on the charge
of having allowed their names to be
associated with Communists at the last
election for the union’s officers. All the
accused • were prospective delegates to
the 1956 State conference. There was an
original touch in the proceedings in that
W. J. McKnight, Q.C., Senior Crown
Prosecutor, presumably with the approval
of the State law officers and Ministers,
laid the charges—he holds a quasi-
judicial office, and his action in plunging
into a political' fight was without pre-
cedent even in “Labor” N. S. Wales.
There was a mob of witnesses and
enough noise to derail a tram, while
the Painters’ president shouted that he
refused to be questioned in this “Fascist
o Continued on next page)


trial,” and left the “court.” After evidence
had been heard the session lapsed by
effluxion of time at 10.30 p.m.
Meanwhile another disputes-committee
set out to investigate the alleged misuse
of party-funds at the Federal and State
elections, but with this also time ran out.
Next day a band of 13 Federalists, led
by Clive Evatt, met on the steps of the
Trades Hall to give support to a member
of the Postal Workers’ Union who had
been invited to appear for trial. They
later claimed that the disputes-committee
had not turned up. Their opponents
said that the Evatt delegation made sure
of this by staging their visit 90 minutes
before the time fixed for the sitting. The
next major step should be taken today,,
when the Federal A.L.P. Executive will
hold its half-yearly meeting in Sydney
instead of at its headquarters in Canberra.
It is expected that “heads will roll,”
possibly all the heads of the State Execu-
tive, since the Federal Executive, as the
politbureau or presidium of the Evatt
“Labor” party, has full power to dismiss
the State Executive, though it has no
known ground for doing this except that
the State Executive has supported
rules which specifically forbid members
and party branches and bodies to pub-
licly associate themselves with Com-
munists and Communist institutions. It
would be unthinkable for Dr. Evatt and
his commissars to allow the State Con-
ference, only two months away, to make a
democratic decision.
What happens if the Federal Executive
destroys its (and the Communist party’s)
enemies in the N. S. Wales branch
depends largely on Premier Cahill. The
chances are on the formation of a
breakaway party, but whether it could be
a powerful one is contingent on the
support of Mr. Cahill and his politicians,
only five of whom, with Clive Evatt in
the van, are anti-Groupers.
Whatever Cahill does, it is significant
of the general appraisement of his
virtues within the party that last week the
consensus of opinion among both sides
at the Trades Hall seemed to be that he
would knuckle-under to the Federal
Executive and desert the friends of the
industrial-groups who assured his con-
tinuance as Premier.
His own supporters at Parliament
House, according to the press statement
of one of them, are “convinced that the
boss will steer us through the threatened
mess.” He will bow the knee to the Evatt
faction, not because he thinks it right,
but because “despite our misgivings”—
and of course the most flagrant breach by
them of the party rules, principles
and platform —“the Federal A.L.P. is
the party and we cannot afford to break
away. The history of N. S. Wales
politics is studded with the wrecks of
A.L.P. splinter-groups. We are deter-
mined not to be one of them.”
POLITICAL POINTS
O to be in England, now that April,
Khrushchev and Bulganin are there!
• •
Re-elected Speaker of the N. S. Wales
Assembly against opposition from Liberal
and Country-party members, W- H.
Lamb announced that he intended to act
exactly as he had done in the past. That’s
just what the Opposition was afraid of.
• •
Gair will now deliver his policy-speech
on April 24. The date was fixed after a
couple of miscues. First choice, April
30; out because the Liberal party had
booked the City Hall for a Menzies
speech. Second pick, April 23; out
because Liberal-leader Morris had already
asked the A.B.C. for broadcasting-time
that night. Complaining that an extra-
ordinary state of affairs had been reached
“when an ordinary member of Parlia-
ment, leader of a rump party of eight,
is given preference over the leader of
the Government for broadcasting-time on
the national stations,” Gair settled for
April 24.
• •
Final tally in the Westralian election
gave the Hawke “Labor” Government a
gain of four seats —Maylands, Subiaco
and Wembley Beaches from the L.C.L.
and Albany from the Country-party.
Beeloo, the new seat created in the adjust-
ment of boundaries, also went to “Labor,”
but this was balanced by the winning of
the revised Canning seat by the L.C.L.
Party-strengths in the new House will be
“Labor”, 29 ; L.C.L., 13 ; C.P. 8.
)
• e
Following the relieving of Queensland
Lands Minister Foley of his duties (at his
own request), V. R. Creighton, chairman
of the Lands Administration Board, was
suspended from office last Wednesday.
Announcing this, Acting Lands Minister
Walsh said:
As Parliament is the only authority which
can determine Mr. Creighton’s position, the
reasons for his suspension will be placed
before Parliament in due course, and Mr.
Creighton will then be informed of those
reasons.
Creighton was a key witness at the Lands
Commission (still in progress), where it
was revealed that he had supplied
information on which articles in an
A.W.U. paper attacking the Government’s
land-administration were based.
The Queensland election will be held
on May 19, so it will be some time before.
Parliament gets an opportunity of hearing
the reasons. Consequently it will be some
time before Creighton hears them. He
says that so far he has only been told
that his suspension is on the ground of
misbehavior. He told the “Courier-
Mail” that he felt he‘ was being made a
scapegoat, and that the Government was
only taking this step “because my former
Minister, Mr. Foley, may have to face
criminal charges.”
• •
Calwell, referring to the rumors that
McEwen, Minister for Trade, may leave
the Country party and join the Libs.:
He is in a state of chrysalis. He is a
Country-party grub about to become a
Liberal-party butterfly. What an awful
way to finish-up—a winged insect of
Liberalism.
No butterfly about Calwell. He’s more of
the grasshopper type.
• •
New Guinea coffee is now on the Aus-
tralian market, and so is New Guinea
cocoa, although the latter is not distin-
guished as such. Production is about
1500 tons a year. When current plantings
reach full production, five or 'six years
hence, the output should be 8000 tons,
about two-thirds of Australia’s require-
ments. At present prices this would save
about £2 million in exchange.
o •
World-wide expenditure on the Inter-
national Geophysical Year next year will
be around the £ 100-million mark, said
the Prime Minister in announcing that
the Government was allotting £67,060 to
Australian universities for projects asso-
ciated with the year. These include Ant-
arctic work and studies of the upper
atmosphere, ocean-tides and the earth’s
interior.
Unless Queensland changes its allegi-
ance, there’ll be four “Labor” Premiers
at the June Loan Council and Premiers’
Conference in Canberra. All will have
benefited from the Government’s finan-
cial policy (and, incidentally, from the
poor public-relations presentation of that
but they’ll doubtless have their
hands out as usual while their handouts
proclaim how badly they’re being treated.
• •
Victorian Country-party leader Hyland
told his party’s annual conference at
Ballarat that there was no hope of recon-
ciliation with the Liberal-Country-party
until the latter dropped “the name it
stole.” He said he was even prepared
to go into the courts to fight the L.C.P.
for the word “Country” in its title.
Hyland’s annoyance is quite understand-
able, but it’s very doubtful whether he
would have any chance at law. Jack Lang
continued to call his, rump organisation
the Australian Labor Party for years after
he had been expelled. The official A.L.P.
hunted hard for legal ways of restraining
Lang from using the title, but didn’t find
any. Even at the N.S.W. election last
month his “Century” was appealing to
electors to “Vote Labor Thus”: with a
figure 1 alongside the name of the Lang
candidate.
THE BIGGEST WILLY-WILLY YET
Queensland graziers were well advised
to drop the silly idea of flying Maori
shearers across the Tasman to break the
shearing strike.
e •
“Ek Dum”: For people who loathe
Stalin and Stalinism, Bulganin and
Khrushchev seem to have chosen a very
badly-named cruiser in the Ordzhono-
kidze to carry them to England. When
Stalin achieved power his principal co-
operators were Ordzhonokidze and the
infamous and equally cruel Dzerzhinsky,
whose name causes a shudder every time
it is mentioned in Russia. The hero after
whom the Ark of Peace which will
carry the Leninist pair to England is
named was a bete noire of Lenin’s —he
proposed his expulsion from the party
for “misuse of power.” He was sup-
posedly one of the proposed victims of
the “terrorist plots” which formed the
basis of the 1937-38 purges. But per-
haps the fact that he died of the usual
heart-attack in February, 1937, three
weeks after the execution of the plotters,
hallows his memory.
• •
Prelude to a spot of typical buck-pass-
ing? Cahill, after protesting that he was
not in favor of bigger lotteries, went on
to say that “at the same time,, if our lot-
tery profits are being challenged by inter-
state lotteries it is the duty of the Direc-
tor (Mr. C. T. Tallentire) to examine the
position and report on it. Any recom-
mendation he made would be con-
sidered.” Tallentire, a former secretary
of (Cahill’s, will now report.
• •
Downer, M.H.R. for Angas (S.A.),
wants heavier taxation of young, unmar-
ried people who have “no ideas about
saving, but plenty of ideas about spend-
ing.” A plan which would reduce the
spending-power of the young and irre-
sponsible without altering the incidence
of taxation would be a compulsory-
savings scheme on the lines of Army
deferred-pay. It’s a principle that the
Arbitration Court might well consider
when fixing wage-rates for young people
in industry. Deductions from' weekly
pay could accumulate in a fund to be
repaid, with interest, on marriage or on
attaining a certain age.
Such a plan would serve three purposes,
all good. It would reduce surplus spend-
ing on consumer-goods ; it would increase
savings; it would create a nest-egg for
use in the purchase of a home or
furniture.
# ■ # j
The confused Malayan Federation and
Singapore problems have reached another
stage in preparation for the final move-
ments towards “independence.” Defence
and internal security are main issues. A
conference meets this week in Kuala
Lumpur, and everybody except the Com-
munists seems to feel that though it is
vital to get rid of the British, at whose
reps. Mr. Marshall sneers, it is certainly
not vital to get rid of British protection,
or British trade and economic help.
• •'
“H.H.” (London): That the Russians
are bending over backwards to avoid
giving a bad impression is clear from their
decision not to send General Serov —a
Himmler responsible for the death and
deportation of millions —to London with
Crush and Bulge. His preliminary visit
(and he, too, had a pleasant face and an
ingratiating manner only a little less
winning than Malenkov’s) inflamed
British leader-writers to a fury of indigna-
tion (“If we must have the Bear, we don’t
want the Jackal”). It’s something new for
dictators to bow to public opinion. What
are they after?
• •
“Wusslean”: An unheard-of thing has
occurred in Melbourne: fares have been
reduced on a form of public transport.
For a three-months trial period, a six-
penny flat-rate fare has been introduced
on a privately-operated bus-route, seven
miles in length, between Glenhuntly and
Batman-avenue, in the city. The change
means lower fares for all except travellers
over the shortest section, which previously
cost fivepence. The proprietor of the bus-
line evidently believes the innovation will
be a paying proposition ; if it is, the State-
owned railways and tramways will find
it harder than ever to explain why their
invariable prescription for curing
transport-losses is to raise fares all round.
• •
Following a series of breakdowns on
Sydney’s electric railways, Opposition-
leader Morton said the Government
should appoint an independent inquiry to
improve the efficiency and safe-working
conditions of the system. When told of
this, Transport Minister Enticknap com-
mented, “The Leader of the Opposition
can say what he likes. I am running the
railways, not him.” A boast or a
confession?
• •
Countries in Asia as well as in the
Middle East now being wooed with offers
of Russian aid would do well to ponder
on an anecdote Britain’s Foreign Secretary
Selwyn Lloyd told a Canadian audience
recently. He related how Harold Wilson,
president of the Board of Trade in the
Attlee Government, in the course of a
discussion with Khrushchev on colonial
problems, said that since the war Britain
had pumped more resources into its
colonies than it had pumped out.
Khrushchev replied that he couldn’t
understand why anyone should enter a
country except to pump out.
• •
Despite the atmosphere of inquisition
and Moscow trials that hangs over the
N.S.W. “Labor” movement like a smog
Cahill doesn’t seem to have noticed any-
thing unusual. He says his party is quite
united. Colbourne, State secretary of the
party, also professes himself unmoved.
Quite emphatically, in fact. “I know
nothing about ‘Labor’ splits or proposals
for a new ‘Labor’ party.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
ACCORDING to Sydney “Sun,” after
her marriage to Prince Rainier 111
Grace Kelly “will have duel citizenship.”
Just like ordinary married people.—
"PjO.M.C.”
“Emjai”: After a drive against time,
the Stork made his presentation on the
grass verge in front of the hospital. A
crowd from am adjacent bus-stop rubber-
necked around; a woman dashed to a
phone to be first-in for the evening-paper’s
bonus for news-tips; while a worried
father and his driver-friend endeavored to
cope until nurses and trolly took over.
The Sister in charge, having got things
organised, spared a moment to look at
the men, and prescribed a double-brandy
apiece. “Well, anyhow, Sister, you won’t
be able to charge me theatre-fees,” the
father remarked. “No,” he was told,
with a twinkle; “we’ll make it green-
fees.”
♦♦♦ <♦ ♦>
“Sparks”: Shipping-reports and -adver-
tisements of bygone days used to display
the captain’s name as prominently as the
name of his ship. Modern practice omits
the name of the captain. Anyone know
why?
♦& ♦>
“Doynest”: Struggling to give my sons
an education that will fit them to enter
some worth-while profession or trade, I
read that a Melbourne youth in his early
twenties has been offered the equivalent
of an income of 60-quid a week, made
up of salary as playing-coach to a
country football-team, a house rent-free
and a job suited to his capabilities, what-
ever they may be. A reasonably-good
footballer —the youth in question is not
one of the acknowledged champions—
is rated at more than thrice the worth of
a clergyman, twice the worth of a uni-
versity-graduate with several years of pro-
fessional experience and a few hundred-
quid a year above a State Cabinet
Minister.
❖ ❖
“Apemantus”: Replacement of manual
by automatic telephone-exchanges abol-
ishes some dangers of country life. Auto-
matics, for instance, never square-away
a grudge by saying: “Yes, I know your
husband ought to be in his office to
answer, and I’ll try again if you insist,
but he just drove past here with that new
redhead from the Commercial Hotel.”
♦>
“D.A.L.”: A girl interested in pops-
music was in the audience when Johnnie
Ray first appeared at Sydney Stadium.
She wjis no fanatic Ray-fan; merely
wanted to hear him sing. In the crowd
were dozens of teenagers who would have
given a lot to be able to say they had
been kissed by Johnnie, but he to
choose this girl. She was furious when
she found herself in his embrace, but was
so surprised that she did nothing. At
home, afterwards, she declared that she
wished fervently she had thought of
smacking his face. Ah, yes; that would
have put her right out on her own.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jaydee”: As well as the telegraphic
sort (B. 28/3/’56), radio-communications
are also brightened by occasional off-
the-cuff comments. During the unpiloted
flight of an Aiister aircraft from Banks-
town (Sydney) aerodrome a few months
ago—you probably remember it was
finally shot down by the Fleet Air Arm
—Chris, an airline captain whose ability
is only rivalled by., his terrific stutter, on
hearing the warning to civil aircraft in
flight, remarked, “If-f-f-f I f-f-f-find it
c-c-c-can I k-k-keep it?”
+++
“Narumee”: Though the Scot wears
the kilt, does the guid-wife wear the
breeks (B. 4/4/’56)? Weil, if she does,
Rabbie Burns has a word for her:
Were such the wife had fallen to my part,
I’d break her spirit, or I’d break her heart:
I’d charm her with the magic of a switch:
I’d kiss her maids, and kick the perverse
bitch.
Come in with the Gaelic for it, “Old
Mac.”
“Twink”: All this chatter by “Naru-
mee,” “Old Mac” arid “0.W.W.” on
whether a Scot wears kilts, a kilt or the
kilt reminds me that I have just heard
the voice of a famous Scot speaking over
the air of “a kilt” —Lord Lovat. When I
was in England 20 years ago I read in
the London press that we must never refer
to the “Scotch,” or “Scotchmen” ; they
didn’t like it —so I went north armed with
“Scot” and “Scotsman,” only to find
"I'm supposed to be home baby-sitting."
fhat my Hielan’ cousins considered them-
selves Scotch and me pedantic.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cloudy”: From captain down to crew
of the Russian ice-breaker Lena at Port
Adelaide each did his best to assure
visitors and pressmen that there was no
Iron Curtain ; also that the Russians are
a bunch of good fellow's. So they will
be remembered, although the third-officer
in his efforts to create a good impression
made the striking analogy: “Russian sea-
man good man —you understand? Aus-
“Carry your bags , Mister ?”
tralian seaman, he good man, too —you
understand?” Sure! Comrades all.
Though the Russians are probably better
Russians.
❖ ♦!<
“Doynest”: Overheard in the train:
“I wish the solicitors would get a move on
and fix things up; my brother died three
or four weeks ago, y’ see, and no one can
do anything, like, ’cause he didn’t leave
a will. Awkward for us? I’ll say it is!
And what’s got me really worried” —
addressing his hearer in deadly earnest
—“there’s half-a-dozen bags of cement
down in his shed. If we don’t do some-
thing with ’em pretty quick, they’ll all go
hard!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: A woman went into a
Sydney bookshop and asked for Nancy
Keesing’s new book of poems, Three Men
and Sydney. The intelligent and obliging
shop-assistant, equal to any emergency,
searched around the shelves and brought
back Three Men in a Boat.
*l* *l* ❖
“Yakipan”: If the lights of Piccadilly
Circus were once known as the Scots-
man’s Theatre, surely
Bourke-street at present is
Melbourne’s three-ring cir-
cus. In an effort to force
pedestrians to use the official
pedestrian-crossing the auth-
orities have set up chains on
both sides of the street from
Swanston-street to Eliza-
beth-street. To start with,
there was only one break
in the chain, but eventually
another wds made. The
congestion on the one cross-
ing was so great that elderly
persons and small children
ran a risk of being swept
off their feet. Many ducked
under the chains and crossed
the street any old where.
Police with loudspeaker-
cars, in polite, and fre-
quently flattering, language
pointed out to transgressors
how much safer they would
be on the official pedes-
trian-crossing. Only when
a would-be exhibitionist
broke the regulation for the
second time did the steel
creep into their voices.
The police performed their
duty with patience sind
humor, and at times had to
take a lot of unpleasant re-
marks from some of the by-
standers, the majority of
whom were there to laugh
at the chain-gang fugitives who, crossing
the road, were suddenly made the cyno-
sure of several hundred onlookers.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Pevin”: Tasmania’s pioneers did
1956 Tassie an unwitting service when
they named Mount Olympus. During the
Festival of Tasmania, to be held after
the Olympic Games in the hope of catch-
ing the tourists before they go back home,
a beacon will be lighted on the mountain.
The torch will be carried along the main
roads by relays of runners, and members
of the Hobart Walking Club will carry it
over the rough stuff and up to the top.
“Wusslean”: After pushing the lawn-
mower for half-an-hour or so, young
Wusslean went off to blue his Saturday
pay at the local toy-shop. He returned
looking as rueful as the unfortunates who
put off buying new cars until it was just
too late. “This ruddy Budget!” he
snorted disgustedly. “Crackers have
gone up fifty per cent.! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doormat”: Bishops can be trans-
lated —or, in common language, trans-
ferred. And actually the Archbishop of
Canterbury, Dr. Fisher, is translated in
the Afrikaans Prayer Book as “Aarts-
biskop van Kantelberg,” or “Archbishop
of the Capsizing Mountain.” Perhaps the
old Anglo-Saxon form, “Cantwarabyrig,”
for Canterbury would suit the Afrikanders
better, but what the Saxons meant was
“Town of the Men of Kent.”
“Kia-Ora”: Going for my driver’s
licence, I copped- a sporting copper.
“What’s the string around your finger
for?” he asked. “Do I get a licence
irrespective of what the string’s for?”
“Yes,” he replied. I said, “I put it there
to remind me to take the hand-brake off
—I always forget.” Cop laughed. “I’ll
have to tell my wife,” he said.
“Lorna Doone”: During an unusually
moist heat-spell in S.A. I was zipping out
the door of our emporium. I grinned at
the doorman, who said, “I beg your par-
don?” I replied that I hadn’t said any-
thing. “Sorry,” he murmured, “I thought
you said ‘Come an’ have one! ’ ”
❖ ❖ ❖
BRISBANE is probably the only capital
city with whistling cops. Gone is the
official hand-signal of the law. Just a
shrill hoot through a toot, meaning
“Stop!” with a command “Come back
’ere!” Illegally parked cars are quickly
towed away and impounded. The police
quote 950 as last year’s bag, as many as
20 in one day, with a luxury £3500-
Packard the most prized trophy of all.
One towing-firm has a popular slogan:
“We never sleep”—and it’s coming true.
The modern way of directing motorists
is “The Voice,” booming-out instruc-
tions through a loudspeaker on a police
radio-control car so much amplified that
office-workers jump off their stools and
rush to the windows. More than 2400
motorists have been booked for traffic-
breaches in Brisbane this year.—
“D.W.M.”
IF ONE WERE IN IT ONE
WOULDN’T WIN IT
If you want to be in
Australia’s Four Hundred
You’ve only to win
Mr. Drysdale’s Half-million.
He is making, he claims,
This gesture with other people’s cash
To finance the Olympic Games —
Not, unfortunately, me.
Suppose I bought a £25-ticket
By mortgaging my new cedar wardrobe,
l wouldn’t be on any better wicket:
I always lose, somehow;
Or Yd be one off it, as on other times —
That really would chafe me
Like rhythms and rhymes
That just escape me.
H&w.
SWILLIAM.


IMMACULATE, in braided trappings,
First Sea Lord Earl Mountbatten, with
Lady Mountbatten, stepped from an
R.N.Z.A.F.. Dakota at Kaikohe, pros-
pering centre of middle-north New Zea-
land, paused on the gangway, and saluted.
But no civic dignitary came forward to
reciprocate, and, after wishing 50 on-
lookers “a happy Easter,” the visitors
drove off to fish the Bay of Islands.
Kaikohe’s Mayor was in the South
Island. I’m sure the First Sea Lord was
forgiving. If he knew Kaikohe’s pro-
blems he would be. Visiting this old but
recently-mushrooming town for the first
time lately, I dug-up the harassed town
clerk in his tiny office: a backroom in an
old house way back from the street. He
has one typist to help him cope, and
“Margo! What about our date for the cabaret?”
there’s decidedly no 40-hour week. —
“Avon.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Cosmos”: Melbourne is to have an
impressive “front-door” for the Olympic
Games. The Harbor Trust commis-
sioners have approved plans for a
£250,000-face-lift for Station Pier, the
overseas liner-terminal for the Port of
Melbourne; an extension to the pier,
glass enclosure for the concourse and
new Customs-examination area. Mechani-
cal conveyors will take passengers’ lug-
gage from ship to shore, and the waiting-
hall will be bright, spacious, and finished
in gay colors. Fluorescent-lighting will be
installed, and facilities will include
buffet-service and snack-bar, a kiosk for
sale of books, sweets and fruit, and
modern comfort-stations. And so, per-
haps, to bed.
“Doric”: On my first visit to London
it took me quite a while to realise what
“Merble Erch” stood for. By the time
I reached “Arlbut ’Oil,” I had conquered
the Cockney language. And people deride
the Australian accent!
❖ ❖
“Zorok”: With Bob’s extra tax-slug
on beer has come an entertainer, com-
plete with piano-accordion and mike, to
the bar of a Sydney pub I frequent of a
Saturday night—and since his appearance
attendances in the bar have increased.
The artist doesn’t hog the mike, but hands
it around to anyone so uninhibited by
the limejuice they’ve been drinking as
to try to sing. Some of these impromptu
renditions are agonising, worsened by
the mike-amplification—though nobody
leaves the bar. ' A gravel-voice murdered
“Good-night, Irene,” adding the infor-
mation (which I don’t vouch for) that it
had been written in Alcatraz. “Well, if
he sang it as badly as you,” said one of
his mates, “he deserved to stop there.”
“Jake”: Brisbane’s Civic Fathers have
hit upon a simple method of reducing
operating-losses in the city’s transport-
department: merely cut down on the
number of trams and buses on the road
and let the customers walk home.
❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: It was the Council of
Nicaea (not Micah) that decided that
Easter should be held on the same day
throughout the world (B. 28/3/’56). The
bulk of the British churches followed the
Continental observance of the date of
Easter, after the Synod of Whitby in 664
(not 669). Easter is sometimes derived
from aster, to rise, Easter being the
time of Christ’s rising from the dead.
Much of the Easter customs are derived
from the feasts of the god Belus (Bel-
tane being derived from Beil-teine, the
day of Belus’ fire), a spring-time festival,
Belus being the god of fertility.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Report”: On Sydney’s Crown-street
Hospital’s notice-board:
Stop the State tonight at 8 p.m. for
three minutes. No babies.
❖ ❖ .
“P.0.M.C.”: A Sydney jockey, driving
home with a couple of friends in his
Super Snort limousine on Doncaster day,
sighted a distant neighbor trudging along
the footpath. Pulling into the kerb, he
offered the hiker a lift. “Don’t tell me
you’re walking home, Mr. Blank,” he
bantered. “They weren’t that hard, were
they?” Blank cut the courtesies. “I’m
walking home all right, you undersized
little twirp!” he snarled. “And if you
hadn’t done your block on” (a well-
known horse) “I’d’ve been going home in
a taxi.”
“Metax”: April this year has two date-
number runs, 3,4, ’56 and 23, 4, ’56. The
only other two such runs in the one month
in this century were 2,3, ’45 and 12, 3,
’45. The four-figure runs happen only
six times in a century and the five-figure
ones twice.
♦♦♦
“Vincit”: In our family, when Mother
has an extra-special stroke of literary
luck, Junior is taken to the Big City and
treated to a snapper-spread. Ordinary
and take that silly grin off your face!”
pars, don’t merit such extravagance, but,
having cracked the jackpot, I discovered
him with both eyes glued to the printed
page. “Can you understand it, darling?”
I said, watching the little head bobbing-
up and down. “I’m not reading it,” he
corrected gently. “I’m just counting the
lines.”
£♦ ♦>
“Tiki”: Don’t know what Mum would
have thought of this. “Hoping to give
their customers fresher and more palat-
able hot-cross buns,” two bakeries at
Wellington (N.Z.) put their pre-Easter
buns into deep-freeze for a week. Thaw-
ing them out took six hours. Idea came
from the U.S., and now they threaten
to treat bread the same way.
*l* ♦> ♦♦♦
“Doric”: My chief objection to a soli-
citor’s bill-of-costs is when an item reads:
“To receiving your letter and perusing
same.” The epistle may run to only
about 12 lines, but from the account one
could imagine the legal gentleman had
been forced to read Gone with the Wind.
++♦ +j*
“Narumee”: The nature-strip bisecting
the highway into the seaside-suburb of
Frankston (Vic.) is neatly-mown, and
adorned with trees and freshly-painted
seats. The large sedan full
of Easter holidaymakers sped
through the town and slack-
ened speed alongside the
green sward ; an arm / from
the passenger’s window flung
a few paper-bags around, a
head peered to admire the
effect; a second time the arm
emerged, this time with some
gay cardboard containers —
color had been lacking, ap-
parently thought the owner
of the head that wagged
approval. The sedan crawled
more yards, and the
arm threw a bottle which
broke into many sharp, spark-
ling fragments on the seat.
Applause and laughter
greeted this marksmanship as
the sedan accelerated away.
We passed it a mile or so
further on, and had a good
view of the occupants—five
men, two women, still young-at-heart.
, *
♦Jt
‘Terzi Tuoni*’: The augmented sixth
mentioned by “Ardoyne” (B. 4/4/’56)
isn’t an unpleasing discord. True, it’s a
tonic seventh, and so should resolve to
either a major or minor sixth; but, even
so, there are more discordant intervals in
music. Melbourne’s accident-rate would
surely hit an all-time low if its train-
whistles bleated, say, a dominant
ninth, a perfect fifth, or a plain
major second. But how about the train-
loudspeaker beefing-out Khachaturian’s
“Sabre Dance”?
“Rimutuka”: In politer-than-Sydney
Brisbane, “Macnell” (B. 21/4/’56), an
infirm old gent hauled himself and his
crutch aboard the crowded bus. A young
girl occupying the front window-seat
moved out to strap-hang. The old one
thanked her —but that’s as far as he got.
An athletic youth, all long hair and
flowing tie, leaped for the vacated seat,
and with truculent air and folded arms
took firm root, defying glares and caustic
comments.
♦jt +t*
“North Esk”: If “Geep” (B. 21/3/’56)
should be across here in Tassie some
time I could introduce him to one man
who uses the small “i” with dot in his
correspondence when writing the personal
pronoun, and discourages the appearance
of the capital except at the beginning of
a sentence. Just why he does it I don’t
know. He’s a Hobart resident, and has
produced a couple of books, the second
of which was published last year.
♦j* ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: There are to be no
more “boys” in the Royal Navy. The
rating of “Boy” has disappeared, and the
books now carry the title “Junior Rat-
ings.” One Boy Seaman, Jack Cornwall,
killed at the age of 16 at Jutland, was
posthumously awarded the V.C., and
during the last half-century several Boys,
entering the Navy at the age of 13 or 14
years, reached flag-rank, including
Admiral Sir Philip Enright and Rear-
Admiral J. E. H. Mcßeath.
* *
“W.”: Who says Melbourne trammies
aren’t the best in Australia? An elderly
man running to catch a Mont Albert tram
dropped his fountain-pen on the road.
The driver got out and, braving the peak-
hour traffic, picked it up and returned it.
❖ ❖
“Metax”: At the opening of a new
school in our town a speaker read a poem
praising teachers in erecting in the minds
of their pupils a structure of ideas which
lasted long after mere material construc-
tions of bricks and mortar had fallen
down. The comparison was most appro-
priate, but the architect of the school-
building, sitting close by with the guests,
smiled a little grimly.
%
♦>
“Mozzer”: Peep-toe shoes solved for
one girl a riddle that had had her bothered
for years. Getting a pair of shoes to fit
properly was as difficult as trying to make
a bunch of carrots snug in a paper-bag.
Sizes didn’t seem to count for much.
Then, with her first pair of toeless, she
noticed that on one foot the big-toe filled
the gap more than on the other. Further
investigation revealed that one foot was
size-6 and the other size-5.
*
“Doric”: What intrigues me is that
no one ever eats anything in American
luxury-hotels ; Hollywood characters toy
with the spectacular food, light cigarettes
which are immediately stamped-out, and
the scene changes. The only time I
remember an actor really enjoying a good
meal was when Charles Laughton, as
Henry VIH, tore into a whole roast-
chicken, holding it with his bare hands.
Maybe the Marilyns and Avas don’t
want to grow-out like Big Charlie.
PRODUCE-PALLIATIVE
“The soothing of frayed nerve or temper is
largely a matter of the individual, home res-
pond readily to reading or soft rousic.
know one man who gains relief by hstening-m
to market-reports.” —Radio speaker.
If your wife has done a bunk
With the postman, you may feel
You could shoot-through and get drunk
As the means your hurt to heal;
Leap with rage upon your hat,
Or rush out and kick the cat.
But is all this, I ask you, necessary ?
You’ve the perfect anodyne —
By your radio-set recline,
And hear the price for products of the
dairy !
Lottery-result has just come out;
You have missed first-prize by one !
That, admittedly, ’s a clout.
But, don’t rustle-up your gun.
Though all hope may seem death-knelled,
All your gloom can be dispelled—
You’ll soon regard such things as
piffling follies —
You’ll restore your cheerful grin
By simply listening-in
To what the market-price is now for
caulies.
Oh, some find in solitude
Balm to soothe the quivering nerve;
Whilst the Chopin-nocturne mood
Will for others fitly serve.
For yet others, potions, pills
Will be gulped-down for the ills
The head is heir to. Yet, he shed’s a
cargo
Of worry who can dwell
On the price they get who sell
Their tons of Brownell, Bismarck or
Sebargo. .
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


■AuAfcatia/
WWWfat*
r*3Ml
... the aristocrat of Australian skies
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NFV23S
PERSONAL ITEMS
When N.S.W. and other Corriedale
men get together sociably Tom E. Smith,
of Brenede Corriedale and Jersey stud,
Naradhan (N.S.W.), is usually well out
in front, entertaining them with an im-
pressive repertoire of bush-ballads, mostly
about Corriedale sheep and their breeders,
his only prop, a battered hat. He not
only recites ’em (with gusto, as here
depicted); he writes ’em. Now in his
seventies, T.E. was bom in the Goulburn
Valley (Vic.) and has been on the land all
his life. He moved to his present address
in 1926, and since then has taken over
1000 prizes at N.S.W. shows, reaching the
top with his grand-champion ewe at the
SHEEP
Sydney Show in 1946. In recent years he
has been studmaster for Sol Goldberg,
the medico-breeder from Griffith
(N.S.W.), who has been sending Corrie-
dales from his Carmel stud to Israel.
• •
First Sea Lord, Earl Mountbatten,
breezed into N.S.W. last week, inspected
R.A.N. ships and establishments, had a
glider-flight at Nowra, landed in the
grounds of Government House, Sydney,
by helicopter, examined new aqualung
apparatus and took away a set for further
tests, accepted a gift of a water-ski for
his daughter Pamela, spoke in eulogistic
terms of the R.A.N., addressed sundry
gatherings, shook a few thousands hands
and breezed out again. Appended are
some lighter Mountbatten remarks.
Of his recent travels:
I have been visiting the various Common-
wealth Navies —the Royal Canadian Navy,
the Royal New Zealand Navy, the Indian
Navy. I have also seen some of the Navies
of countries which have now left the
Commonwealth—such as the Burmese Navy
and the United States Navy.
Of his first visit to Sydney (with the
Prince of Wales on H.M.S. Renown in
1920):
The whole visit was almost ruined from
the start by an indiscreet remark of Lieuten-
ant Lister of Renown, who was to distinguish
himself later as Admiral Lister in leading
the raid on Taranto. We came into Sydney
Harbor on a glorious day, with the Harbor
packed with craft of every conceivable kind.
Renown was the biggest warship to have
visited Sydney up to that time and she
made her way through these small craft to
her allotted mooring-place in Neutral Bay,
where Lieutenant Lister, in charge of moor-
ing operations gave the orders to let go
port and starboard mooring-cables. Just
then a small launch drew near and some-
one on board shouted something through
a megaphone. Amid all the din, Lister
couldn't hear him, so he ordered the
mooring-parties to hold everything, and
called for silence. Then, with the Renown
poised and everyone listening expectantly,
he called to the launch, “What did you
say?” Back came the reply, “What d’you
think of our Harbor?” Lieutenant Lister,
I regret to say, shouted back, “Damn your
bloody harbor!”
Of the work of the Girls Nautical
Training Corps, of which his daughter
Pamela is commandant:
something like the Sea Cadets. They
learn how to row boats, and tie knots
and send signals and so forth Some-
times their duties are misunderstood. I
recently met an American general who
asked me, “Admiral, have you ever heard
of an organisation called the Girls Nautical
Training Corps?” I said I had, and asked
why. He told me he had been asked Whether
he was prepared to give it his support.
“And were you?” I asked. “Admiral,”
he said, “I told them that any organisation
formed with the object of training girls to
be naughty could count on my unqualified
support.”
• •
Just scored 73, Dally Messenger, “The
Master” of Australian Rugby League.
• •
“F.”: Good news that the Elizabethan
Trust is putting on Douglas Stewart’s
“Ned Kelly”—further good news that
Australian Leo McKern is coming back
to play Ned. The part needs a powerful
interpretation—a suggestion of a throb-
bing dynamo of a man behind a taciturn
beard—otherwise, on the stage, there is
a danger of the central figure being out-
shone by the gay Joe Byrne. McKern
should do the trick. He’s been seen here
as lago, Touchstone and Glendower, and
in each part he was brilliant. So he
should fill Ned’s armor adequately and,
in the scenes- were the taciturn bushman
explodes, give the elemental sweep and
force demanded by the poetry. As for
the play itself, opinions differ. Douglas
Stewart himself, I think, prefers the
smoother stagecraft embodied in “Ship-
wreck.” But I have always considered
the thunder and lightning, heat and dust,
dark and sunlight of “Ned Kelly” a mag-
nificent distillation of the Australian
scene, the finest thing of its kind written
for the modern stage.
• •
“D.C.8.”: Harold (Hal) Mackham,
who has passed on in Sydney, was one
of the pioneers of British Solomon
Islands Protectorate development. His
coconut-plantation at Segi, in the New
Georgia area of the Maroro Lagoon, was
the show-place of the Solomons. There
he entertained V.1.P.5., tourists, locals and,
over the years, such writers as Jack Lon-
don, Martin and Osa Johnson, and
Beatrice Grimshaw. He imported all
kinds of tropical plants, and his table
was something tq remerhber. He had
an excellent library, among his prized
possessions bound copies of The Bulle-
tin covering a period of about 40 years
—which the Japs destroyed, with much
else. He was given 20 minutes to get on
the seaplane bound for Tulagi to connect
with the ship that brought him to Sydney.
He went back later, as one of the crew
of a mission-ship, but the contrast
between the Segi he had left and the
broken, desolate Segi he returned to was
too much, and he lacked funds to build
anew. The Western Pacific Commission
gave him the job of administrator of
Christmas Island —up near the Equator
—but the hurt went deep, and he had a
heart-attack. Brought to Sydney for
treatment, he died at the Old Men’s
Home, Lidcombe.
• •» ,
“P.D.”: Early in World War II two
R.A.F. types got yarning while waiting
at Buckingham Palace for the King to pin gongs
on them. One, name of Gibson, there for a
D. 5.0., was impressed by the knowledge and
experience of the other—name of Martin —of
low-flying over Germany. In fact, it was for just
that sort of thing that H. B. (“Micky”) Martin
was at the Palace to collect his first D.F.C.
When Gibson was subsequently called on to
form a special-duties squadron, the nature of
those duties reminded him of Martin, whom
he asked for and got. That was how Martin’s
Lancaster, P for Popsie, came to be the third
to roar at 60ft. across the dark waters of the
Moehne Lake straight into German flak and
deliver scientist Barnes Wallis’s special bomb
against the wall of the Moehne Dam. Gibson
had gone first and placed his bomb exactly as
prescribed ; the second aircraft was hit and
lost in flames ; then Martin made a successful
delivery and joined Gibson to fly around and
draw the German fire while the other Lancs,
made their runs. The lOOft.-thick reinforced-
concrete dam gaped open for 100yds. and 134-
million tons of water rushed in a 25ft.-wave
down the valley.
No. 617 Squadron leaped to fame overnight,
and Martin, who was in temporary command
for a while, saw many suicidal operations with
it. Then P for Popsie was badly mauled in an
attack on the Antheor Viaduct, and
Martin nursed her to a breath-holding landing
on Sardinia. The R.A.F. then decided he had
stuck his neck out often enough and posted
him to a headquarters job, which pleased him so
much that he contrived a posting to a Mosquito
squadron and went on to fresh distinction as a
night-fighter pilot.
Group-Captain Leonard Cheshire, V.C.,
D.S.O. and two bars, D.F.C., another distin-
guished C.O. of 617 and among the elect of
bomber-pilots, wrote of Martin: “The backbone
of the squadron were Martin, Munro, McCarthy
and Shannon, and of these by far the greatest
was Martin. He was not a man to worry about
administration then (though I think he is now),
but as an operational pilot I consider him
greater than Gibson, and indeed the greatest
that the Air Force has ever produced. I have
seen him do things that I, for one, would never
have looked at.”
To that Cheshire later added, when talking to
Paul Brickhill, “I learned all I knew of this
low-flying game from Mick. He showed me
what you could do by coming in straight and
hard and low, and I never saw him make a
mistake.”
Next month, when the film of Brickhill’s
The Dam Busters has its premiere in Sydney,
one of the audience will be Wing-Commander
H. B. Martin, D.S.O. and Bar, D.F.C. and two
Bars, A.F.C. Now British Air Attache in Tel
Aviv, he is flying to his native Sydney for the
occasion and will see another Australian, Bill
Kerr, re-enacting his story on the screen.
• •
Although the Australian eye finds
something risible in the American habit
of fixing members of leading families
with numerals (the method, here, being
reserved for Royalty and stud-stock), it
has advantages of clarity—certainly with
it one could find one’s way more easily
among all the Anthonys, Samuels and
Lebbeuses of the Hordern family. The
Anthony Hordern here pictured is a son
of the Anthony Hordern who is president
of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Society,
nephew of Sir Samuel Hordern and
cousin of Samuel Hordern, president of
the N. S. Wales R.A.S.: by the American
reckoning, Anthony Hordern V. He was
captain of The King’s School, a cadet-
lieutenant, went on to Cambridge (Jesus
College), collected an M.A., came back in
time to sail on the Queen Mary for the
Middle East with the Second A.1.F., was
commissioned in Palestine, and there had
the bad luck to fall foul of an illness
which put him out of the Army and has
restricted his bodily movements since. A
councillor of the R.A.S., chairman of its
CATTLE
fodder-committee, he serves on a couple
of other R.A.S. committees, and is on
the land at Culcairn (N.S.W.). He was
brought up among Shorthorns on his
father’s famous Milton Park stud, and has
recently started a Shorthorn stud him-
self —Round Hill —to which he brought
last year Erimus Intrepid, supreme grand
champion of the 1955 Royal Show of
England.
lan H. Seppelt succeeds his father,
Wally Seppelt, as g.-m. of B. Seppelt and
Sons, Ltd. lan is 46, was bom at Sep-
peltsfield, in the Barossa Valley (S.A.),
and at school and university had an
impressive athletic reputation. His
broad-jump record of 22ft. sin. while at
St. Peter’s still stands; his inter-collegiate
100yds. in 10.2 has been equalled but not
bettered; and he has represented his
WINE
State in Amateur League (Aussie Rules)
football. A Bachelor of Science from
Adelaide University (two Blues), he
studied wine-making and viticulture at the
famous Montpellier College and the
Agronomic Institute of Paris, and later
managed Seppelt’s Chateau Tanunda dis-
tillery. Member of the Australian Wine
Board, councillor of the S.A. Royal Agri-
cultural and Horticultural Society, and on
the council of the new Australian Wine
Research Institute, he was the firm’s
secretary before his present appointment.
His father, who retired recently at the
age of 76, has left Adelaide (h.q. of the
Seppelt concern) to live in Melbourne.
® o
New member of the Naval Board,
Captain A. J. T. Roe, R.N., has been
lent to the R.A.N. by the Admiralty for
two years, and will soon leave his present
post commanding the R.N. air-station at
Eglinton. He’s 44, and is a qualified naval
air-observer, a job he performed in several
fight-areas during the war. He will be
fourth naval member of the board, with
the rank of Commodore.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Hollywood Repat. Hospital (Perth), at 70,
E. Max Hinton Farquharson, M.C. winner,
who served with the 10th Light Horse in War I
and with the 2/28th Battalion in War 11. For
several years between the wars he was on the
R.S.L. State Executive.
In Scotland, at 74, Professor Adam Blythe
Webster, an Old Boy of Christchurch B.H.S.
(N.Z.) who went to Edinburgh Uni., graduated
M.A., and was lecturer there in English
language and literature from 1905 to 1916.
After serving in the Kaiser’s war he returned
to Scotland and was Dean of the Faculty of
Arts at St. Andrew’s University, 1921-36. He
was author of several works, including two on
Andrew Lang’s poetry.
In Brisbane, at 63, Bernard McCabe, one of
the' State’s best-known trade-union leaders.
Member of the Trammies’ Union for close on
40 years, the union’s organiser for 10, he’d been
on the executive of the Queensland Trades and
Labor Council.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 77, Denis Joseph
Cummings, former Commissioner of Police.
When he got the job in 1936 he was the
youngest man to hold it. Retiring in 1944, he
was succeeded by his brother James. There’s
still a Cummings in the force —a constable-
nephew at Dunedin.
In Brisbane, at 63, George Alexander
Daughtrey, official for 28 years, secretary for
21, of the Queensland Teachers’ Union. Res-
ponsible in large measure for the union’s sound
financial position and its buying of the Elizabeth-
street (Brisbane) headquarters, he was intimately
versed in the State’s educational problems, and
worked particularly hard for the welfare of
country teachers.


|MSf£Ap of A LLOWH6 SU6VRBAKI TRA/M -
TRAV£LL££LS
To EXtfAUST* THEMSELVES* Running
e>usiouy up stairwa/s —
TO f/NP THAT THE TRA«N Thißy (fsITBNPEP
to catch Pullbp our Jusr as Tney
RpACHEP THE TOP STGP ;
PONT TUB
B&S Co -oPERATfT
CUITH TASSEN Gr£ RS
t^h- going-
GONE-
By installing inp/cators
So AS TO KEEP THEM fUUjy IHfOfZMBP
op the train's PosmoM 7
•
A LITTLE SERVICE, PLEASE!


ABORIGIANALITIES
TVTEARLY as big as its mother and in
better condition, the young, magpie
on my lawn was apparently a bottomless-
pit for tucker. No matter how much the
hard-worked parent delivered, the young-
ster still made raucous demands for more.
After a particularly large beakful had
failed to silence the mendicant, Ma flew
on to the fence and eyed her progeny
pensively for fully five minutes. Mind
made up, she hopped down on to the
lawn, grabbed the squawker by the scruff
of the neck and dragged it round the
lawn, pausing now and again to shake it
as a dog might a rabbit. Harsh treat-
ment, but the maggie is a tough fowl.
When gentler avians think it is time for
their progeny to practise self-help they
are usually content to take short, sharp
rushes at the youngsters, snapping their
beaks viciously the while. If severe chas-
tisement is called for, it’s usually, in my
experience, the male parent that dishes
it out. —“Saaedi.”
“Four Threes”: Of all the animals
trespassing on railway-lines, sheep are the
real bane of enginedrivers. A sheep’s
reaction to an approaching train is unpre-
dictable ; in a bunch, they’ll criss-cross
the line with understandable confusion;
eventually assembled away from danger,
they’ll decide that the opposite side of the
track is more attractive just as the train
is about to pass, and many a fast train
is reduced to a crawl. Cows just step
aside amiably. Bulls head for open
country ; making their own openings as
regards fences. Horses want to make a
race of it, but give no trouble except
when they reckon the course is between
the rails. Anyone trying to control sheep
without the aid of a dog has my
sympathy; especially near a level-
crossing.
* * * *
“Bosco”: The heat—nothing else —
made me take an afternoon-nap on the
lounge-floor. I awoke to see a snake
hanging from the top of the door-frame
and swinging back and forth across the
open doorway. NPw, here’s flie ques-
tion : How could about 7in. of tail resting
along a piece of smooth wood about Jin.
wide have sufficient grip to defy the pull
of gravity as 2ft. of its heavy end dangled
and contorted in space below?
“Chuck”: A dog-fancier I know
bought a sheepdog-bitch with a pedigree
from here to Christmas and a blue-
blooded male from a long line of cham-
pions, and commenced his sideline. I
watched his old dogs at work, listened
to his spate of enthusiasm, and my natural
canniness was overruled ; so that now,
down 10-quid and 12-months’ suffering
patience, I’m the owner of a pure-bred
whose aim on sighting sheep is to eat
’em. Every other pup from the same and
a succeeding litter proved equally useless.
Couple of years back the mong-pup of
an old rabbiting-bitch showed promising
signs of sheepwork and was given a
trial, with excellent results. Since then
the old bitch, whose ancestors show noth-
ing but rabbiting-bitzers and who herself
is a menace among sheep, has been
shedded to breed sheep-pups, and to date
hasn’t produced a non-worker. There
appear to be no rules in the breeding of
sheep-dogs. An entire litter may be
good, or bad, or contain both champions
and useless pups. But how to pick ’em?
Well, apart from dodging white feet (if
you belong to that school), there’s really
only one- element in selecting—luck.
“S.”: It may interest the barbarian who
dumped a load of pineapple-tops in the
St. Ives end of Kuringai Chase a few
months ago to learn that every one of
them has taken root and is flourishing—
a most exotic sight in the near-Sydney
bush.
* * * *
“Doric”: There is no tree more evoca-
tive of romance than the palm. Any
book which commences with “It was
moonlight on the palm-fringed lagoon”
is on the way to becoming a best-seller.
Edith Hull hit the jackpot a generation
ago when “The Sheik” pitched his tent
among date-palms. The solid oak turns
one’s thoughts to furniture, the weeping-
willow sounds morbid, the cypress
reminds one of an Italian cemetery, the
pine gives one cold shivers and no book,
entitled Love Among the Bluegums brings
thoughts of anything but bull-ants and
billy-tea. Only palms suggest unbridled
ecstasy.
* * * *
“Doormat”: Pictures of the yast dam-
age done by the hurricane in Queensland
deny any rhyme or reason for calling it
“Agnes.” Similarly, any day when you
drive on the main roads colossal trans-
ports loom up over the horizon with “Miss
Mabel” or “Miss Dorothy” plastered
across the front —though, of course,
there’s the übiquitous woman with a
face like the back of a bus.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: The “Western Australian
Naturalist” gives an eyewitness account
of the birth of a grey-kangaroo. The doe
was sitting well back on its haunches
with its arms rigid and its tongue going
in and out rapidly. Twitching of the
abdomen was taken to indicate labor, and
soon the joey emerged head-first. It
hung on, turned upwards, and began to
climb into the fur, reaching the pouch,
unaided, in about two minutes, and going
over the top head-first after a brief rest
on the edge. The doe had been sitting
as though paralysed, and hadn’t looked
at the joey, but as it entered the pouch
she became excited, licked the pouch-
entrance, then held it open with her
hands and looked in. She didn’t attempt
to help the joey attach itself to the teat,
and she hadn’t licked a path to the pouch,
a<s they’re commonly supposed to do, to
make the going easier. The joey left a
wet trail as it climbed, and this may have
given rise to that belief. Apparently
Nature decrees that the entire job must
be left to the joey, thus assuring that
any weaklings will perish at birth. From
the state of the kangaroo-population in
W.A., Nature seems to know her job, but
looking at a newly-born joey you’d say
she was taking a big risk. It’s hard to
credit the little inch-long monstrosity with
the strength to make the trip to the pouch.
* * * *
Ted Scorfield: I put a bit in that
camel’s mouth (B. 14/3/’56 and
28/3/’56) to get a bite, and seem to have
got it. I also have photographic evidence
of a camel wearing a bit.
* * * *
“Wint”: Stocking a new dam, a creek
or billabong with freshwater fish (yellow-
belly, Murray-cod, black-bream, perch,
catfish) of inland Queensland and parts
of N.S.W. isn’t difficult. If the fish are
caught by line, cut the barb before
removing hook; be quick, and don’t
handle fish if it can be avoided. Keep
fish in wirenetting cages at the stream’s
edge; line cage with hessian to prevent
injury and provide shade. Transport fish
in, say, large drums, which must be per-
fectly clean and contain water from the
creek at the same temperature as the fish
have vacated. Don’t crowd fish, and use
a dip-net to lift them. On a long journey,
aerate the water with a pump about every
two hours; don’t depend on the move-
ment of the vehicle to do this. When put-
ting fish into their new home keep the
water temperature the same, bailing-out a
quantity of the drum-water, and replacing
it from the dam or creek until tempera-
tures level-off. Fish need not be fed
on the trip. Let the water in a freshly
excavated dam settle for about six months
before stocking.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Was driving the big ram
through a paddock heavily infested with
thistle, and the going was slow. Presently
we came on a spider’s web strung across
the sheep-track from the bordering
thistles. The ram stopped, eyed the
strands of web, and turned back along the
track looking for a break in the head-
high thorns. There was no opening. I
brandished a waddy, the mong moved in,
and after a worried attempt to escape
right and left, the woolly was forced near
the web. There he balked, worked back-
wards, struggled to turn, shook his head
threateningly, and collected a bang on
the rump. With nothing else for it, he
suddenly went into a crouch and crawled
under the few strands of web without
touching it. Ten-minutes later he took an
unreasonable objection to the new pad-
dock I’d built him, charged the fence,
and broke three new tie-wires on his way
out.
• * * •
“Bunya”: What with Jaguars, electric-
lighting, fridges and so-forth, the old
simple Dad-’n’-Dave cow-cocky is as out-
of-date as the Clydesdale. He’s woken-up
in another direction. Around Christmas
and Easter there are usually almost as
many broad-brimmed hats on Queens-
land’s Gold Coast as flash restaurants.
But this Easter, estate-agents ruefully
admit, the graziers refused to be fleeced
—they stayed away in flocks. Agents
opine that the men with the rotund
wallets don’t mind spending-up big, but
that they’re heartily sick of being taken
for mugs: paying sky-high prices for a
meal they wait an hour for at a “smart”
restaurant, slugged for rental of a so-
called luxury home which is no more
than just comfortable. Seems the Gold
Coast blokes ought to pull the wool
from over their eyes.
.fa '
* * * *
“Jon Lyn”: Quite a number of those
walls made from the stones that littered
properties on the N.S.W. South Coast
(B. 4/4/’56) were the work of Thomas
Newing, who built the ' first of
them just a century ago at Fox-
ground. It proved such a success
that he made stone-walls his trade,
which he pursued for 60 years until he
retired at 85 years of age. His son —
also Thomas —carried on the work, and
built his last stone-wall in 1932 at Fox-
ground for the Gerringong Council. No
man in Australia, perhaps, has more stone
monuments to his memory than Thomas
Newing, snr.
* * * *
“Wester”: Inland townships in
Queensland have unusual power-black-
outs. Termites drill upwards through the
core of 40ft.-long 18in.-diameter poles to
the top, where they gain access to the
timbered cross-pieces carrying the electri-
cal cables. They eat this timber to a
shell, which collapses in the first wind-
or rain-storm, creating short-circuits.
Sometimes, with new poles, in spite of
initial creosoting and poisoning, this
happens in less than two years.
* * * *
r T"'HOSE bullets “Burr Imul” saw stuck
in a revolver-barrel and a Thompson-
barrel (B. 14/3/’56) were not jammed
from lack of lubricant.
There is power and to spare in even
a pistol-cartridge to force a bullet past the
seizure that might occur from lack of
lubricant. Metal-fouling in the barrel
would be the only likely result.
Most ammunition is lubricated in
grooves near the base of the bullet, which
goes inside the neck of the cartridge-case,
so that the lubricant cannot be rubbed
off. The .22 rim-fire is an exception, but
if all the grease is rubbed off such a
bullet it still wili not stick in the bore.
The cause of a bullet sticking is more
probably no powder-charge. The weight
of a charge is so small that lack of it
may escape detection in the automatic
checking-devices which, during loading,
throw out underweight rounds.
In other words, the weight of the pow-
der may not be much greater than com-
bined ffermitted tolerances for bullet and
case. If there is no charge, or only a
small portion of a charge, the explosion
of the primer may drive the bullet into
the bore. Succeeding bullets fired from
normal rounds would block-up on this
obstruction.
MARK THREE STAR.
UNCLE PADDY
In the deep bush hush where silence lies,
where the flame of hungry campfires
lit the darkness of the plain,
Uncle Paddy rode west again:
on the trail of two bl&ck killers
who had murdered Trooper Villers
while he rode west, long legs apart,
a spear trembling in his heart.
Uncle Paddy was quick to rise,
tears were gleaming in his blue eyes.
More silent now and sombre-faced,
through Brisbane town the Trooper raced,
hailstones beating down upon him
sounding a solemn requiem.
Nor were the mare or rider strange
deep in the darkness of the range.
In the Pass where a slip meant death
the mare raced on; her sobbing breath
fanned the brush with fire of her blood —
through the river swollen in flood,
onwards by the boundary line
to the wide yellow Condamine.
Now a halt by a slipyard rail,
vengeance rode west stalking a trail.
The killers fled from camp to camp
knowing that so close in the damp
night came Paddy with eyes of fire,
debil-debil they could not tire.
As the distance between them shrank .
eyeballs rolled and their black hearts sank;
they fell on their knees and raised their hands,
let wrists be placed in cold steel bands.
Lashed to the Trooper on his mare
three came back in the steamy air.
In village huts of bark and grass
villagers, silent, watched them pass.
“He won’t cross the river,” they said.
“While he waits we will kill him dead.”
He heard them and his face was grim
as he stood by the river rim.
And his captives were silent, too,
and hope rose in their veins anew.
But their dark hopes were quickly fled
when Paddy sent the mare ahead
while the Condamine lay in mist —
swam it, the blacks lashed to his wrist.
Three came back to Brisbane town
and Paddy’s name rang with renown.
In their house while rain was pouring
sisters heard him loudly snoring.
QUEENSLAND.
KEVIN McAULIFFE.


'T'HE limit in hybridisation seemed to
have been reached when London
Zoo crossed a lion with a tiger—and
started a newspaper controversy as to
whether the result was a liger or a tion.
But now domestic agriculture has
trumped that with a cross between
bean and pea, the seed of which is adver-
tised for sale as “pean.” Still compara-
tively rare, I suppose it will be sold by
the pounce.—“Villefhir.”
* * * *
“Dentonio”: The Seychelles Islands,
to which Cypriot Archbishop Makarios
was deported, is the home of a rare fruit,
akin to the coconut, known as “fruit of
the sea.” Nuts of this species were, from
time to time, washed up on the shores of
India and other Asian lands; they were
thought to grow in the sea itself —hence
the name. The trees grow on one island
in the group, and have never been suc-
cessfully established elsewhere.
* * * *
“Sack”: We were a cosmopolitan gang:
an Aussie, a Choom, a Swiss (here too
long to qualify as a New Australian), a
Pole (struggling to learn English), and an
Italian who couldn’t rake up a score of
English words. At lunch-time I contrived
to ask Ossiwiski whether wolves still
existed in Poland. After a lot of puzzling
and guessing on our side, and pantomime
on his, we gathered they were rare, but
he had seen one when in the Polish Army.
He had shouted a warning to his
“capitain,” who had fired. The panto-
mime became very graphic at this stage.
“Ping!” with the forefinger, immediately
followed by a touch on the temple.
“Ping!” again, with a smack over the
heart and a convulsive jerk. I hap-
pened to glance at the Italian’s face. His
big, brown eyes were soft with sympathy ;
his head rocked commiseratingly. Obvi-
ously he thought Ossi was describing the
death of a mate. We just couldn’t let
him go on thinking that. But he didn’t
know what “wolf” meant, and we
couldn’t say it in Eyetie. Finally Choom
threw back his head and howled.
“Camie !” Morgandi exclaimed. I knew
the word meant “dog,” but he looked so
relieved we let it go at that.
“Swimming’s all right, but you mustn't bathe!"
“Motuku”: Does anyone know
whether the bearded-dragon, or jew-
lizard, hibernates? There are lots of them
about our Queensland gardens and lawns
in summer, but we never see them between
May and November, unless there is an
unusually early hot spell. They are con-
firmed post-sitters and good subjects for
amateur photographers, “holding it” with
mouth closed and head and tail pointing
upwards, or putting on a ferocious bluff
with widely-flattened body, gaping jaws
and bristling thorny neck-beard. They
don’t seem to mind being lifted by the
tail and carried about, and will take
food —scraps of meat, insects, grubs and
the mauve flowers of the beach-con-
volvulus—from our fingers. And they like
having their throats tickled.
* * * *
“Spin”: Arctic-terns have been found
on the Australian coast and in other
widespread parts of the earth ; they breed
inside the Arctic Circle, although there
are some colonies a little south of that,
so it seems this bird is probably the
greatest traveller in the world. Banding
will eventually prove just how far it does
travel regularly, and also what happens
to the colonies when they disband after
nesting. They must spread over almost
the entire face of the earth, and return
unfailingly to the spot where they were
hatched.
♦ * * *
“Bass”: A peculiar feature of W.A.’s
coastal plain north of Perth is the
immense amount of water that’s running
through underground-streams to the sea,
while the topsoil is as dry as a bone and
useless for grazing or cultivation. At Yan-
chep, a national park, there’s a lake a
mile long by a quarter-mile wide, fed by
several underground-streams and drained
by others. Another underground-stream
just sidetracks the lake, and the whole
plain for about 100 miles along the coast
is honeycombed with caves which were
formed by streams, and some of which
have streams running through them now.
North of Yanchep there’s & stream,
emptying into the sea, which can be seen
bubbling up through the water at low
tide —in fact, you can bucket pure fresh-
water from the ocean at that point, and
possibly you could at hundreds of other
places if they were known. It might be
almost impossible to trace these under-
ground-streams to their sour.ce, but if it’s
a common one there must be a tremen-
dous reservoir somewhere —possibly in
the Darling Ranges. The streams are
strong, and perennial.
* * * *
“Mozzer”: Came by my superannu-
ated neighbor out in his front-garden.
“Old Peter’s just been down for his
daily natter,” he told me. “He’s got just
a hundred yams from his forty-three
years working the boilers at the brewery,
and I get ’em over and over. He re-
minds me of a chap we had in the rail-
ways. Castle, his name was. He used to
work the shunt-engine down at the Port
docks. One time we had to cut out three
trucks for Wingfield, and this fellow
Castle was on the footplate” ... I con-
ditioned myself for the tale I now knew
by heart.
* * * *
\
“Swelpme”: Albinos, of course, are
not uncommon, since Nature occasion-
ally forgets to add the pigment to all
manner of her creatures —I’ve seen
albino bunnies, possums, two kooka-
burras, a crow, a brace of spags and a
kangaroo. It is the lack of pigmentation
that gives the albino its complete snow-
whiteness and also the pink eyes—the
eyes themselves being colorless, the blood
behind reflecting pink. At least, that was
the theory I’d always heard expounded
and had never found wrong. Which was
why I goggled at a bunny some kids had
trapped. A pied bunny—white body,
black ears and two black feet—was rare
enough. But an animal with all that pig-
mentation having the pink eyes of an
albino! It’s like learning that the world
is not round, after all!
* * * *
“Spooks”: They are trying to tag the
cycle of Perth’s famous sea-breeze, “The
Fremantle Doctor.” Beach-erosion has
for many summers caused concern at
Cottesloe, popular beach-resort near
Perth. A team of university engineering-
school students, working with officers of
ships, are recording all the information
sought by Professor K. L. Cooper, head
of the civil-engineering department of
the W.A. University. The lengths of the
“That settles it! Goodbye!”
waves that break on the sand are im-
portant. Short waves cause more damage.
Longer ones originating further out
break parallel to the beach, and with
much less force.. So far there is little
knowledge of the origin of the famous
breeze, its velocity, or direction. But to
all West Australians living within its wel-
come blowings, it is a timely arrival at
sundown. Called by some the “cocktail
guest,” it is as refreshing as any drink.
* * * *
“Civav”: Odd the things that frighten
birds, and those that don’t. A koel had
somehow got into our bathroom, and,
however gently and coaxingly I tried,
there were still frantic flutterings and
dashings against wails before it could
be cornered and freed. Yet on a country
’drome I have seen brolgas halt their slow
and stately stroll on the very edge of the
runway as an airliner roared past, cross-
ing again gracefully into the grass when
the way was clear.
MOTHS
Moths over the window-pane,
safe from rain,
bask in the yellow light
from the quiet room closed against night.
Some are arrows, some Dutch bonnets.
As the minutes
•fly, they are still, spread wide
revealing that delicate underside
most often hidden. Some
are fans; a comb
plucked from Spanish tresses;
rare laces. There are ladies in Court dresses.
One is serrated, pale green.
I hav6 not seen
waterlily or ballerina (though both
may bear these wings) lovelier than this moth.
N.S.W,
E. NORMAN.
PRICE-FIXING ON A GOLDFIELD
IN October, 1872, just after the dis-
covery of gold there, Charters Towers
butchers thought a rise in the price of
meat from 4d. to 6d. a pound was justi-
fied.
The miners objecting, the butchers
retained the old price—all except one,
Trevethan, the butcher of the Millchester
suburb. He raised his prices tuppence a
pound.
The miners objected more ; the butcher
stood firm. Then, on the evening of
Tuesday, October 29, six- to eight-hun-
dred miners held a meeting in front of
his shop. Mr. Trevethan was not im-
pressed.
“Let us shift his shop into the middle
of the main street,” shouted the miners.
From the near-by store of Chinese
merchants On War and Company a long,
strong rope was borrowed and noosed
about the shop. The miners tugged;
the neat, pine-structured building quiv-
ered. The miners pulled in unison ; over
the shop would have gone, had not
Trevethan, at the back of his shop, with
a big butcher’s knife, cut the rope, and
sent the rows of miners sprawling in the
mica sand.
They re-attached the rope, and the
heaving began again. Heave-ho! and the
shop skidded from its stumps, off into
the main street, to be followed by its
outhouse and its sheds —all much the
worse for the hauling.
Back went the rope to the store, much
to the relief of Charley On War.
Meanwhile Trevethan was seeking
police assistance. Next morning three
arrests were made, one the*'bell-ringer
whose cowbell had helped him in his
self-appointed town-crier role of sum-
moning the meeting. The arrested miners
were celled in the lock-up, and to it the
Millchester diggers marched, demanding
release.
After a parley, released they were—on
bail to appear the following Friday at
10 a.m. for trial, to take place in the
dining-room of one of tile notels, which
boasted the largest room available in the
town anywhere. *
Friday morning, and the trial began.
Miners from all over the field flocked
around the hotel in thousands, kicking
up such a shindy that several times wit-
nesses could not be heard by the magis-
trate.
About 11-o’clock along rode Trevethan
dressed in Sunday best. It would soon
be his turn to give evidence.
“Dump him in the horse-trough! . . .
Lynch him!”
He tried to ride to the front of the
hotel, but his frightened horse took him
around to the back. He dismounted.
Stones and bottles were hurled. Treve-
than took out a pistol and'fired, wound-
ing two men, one of them, named King,
quite seriously it seemed.
Having ascertained from a balcony
above the cause of the added uproar, the
magistrate ordered out constables from
the hotel to rescue Trevethan. They
brought him in, battered and bleeding
and torn about, and with him King, who
had fainted!
The bleeding in King’s neck was
staunched and he regained conscious-
ness ; but the rumor had spread in the
mob outside that he was dead.
Now dejermined to seize Trevethan
and hang him, the miners surged against
the hotel doors and walls, forcing the
police back inside for protection.
Above, Magistrate Jardine came out
on the balcony and pacified the miners
partially by assuring them that Trevethan
would be tried immediately for shooting
King. Coming inside, he adjourned the
original case till the following Monday,
November 4.
But outside things got out of hand
again. Then, just when it seemed as if
the miners would break in and take
Trevethan by force, Bishop Quinn
appeared on the balcony.
The first Catholic Bishop of Brisbane,
then on visit to The Towers, he was the
churchman who brought out so many
Irish immigrants that some called Queens-
land Quinn’s Land. In 1866 he had
quietened the rioters in the Brisbane
bread-riots.
The Bishop now got a hearing. In
the end the miners promised that they
would await the outcome of Trevethan’s
trial. Bishop Quinn concluded: “I shall
walk with Mr. Trevethan from here to
the lock-up—and let no one impede us
or hurt him.”
The procession—police, Bishop and
Trevethan —moved out, the Bishop hold-
ing his characteristic umbrella opened
above the butcher, now prisoner.
Through the opening crowd they
marched, some still threatening lynching ;
and so, safely, to the jail.
It wasn’t* long, though, before the
miners, when nothing seemed to be being
done about trying Trevethan, became as
wild as ever.
“Bring him out!” they yelled. “Bring
him out, or we’ll come in and get him!”
Then the sergeant managed to get a
hearing. Since King wasn’t badly hurt
after all, he assured them, Trevethan, in
the due course of justice, would be tried
on the following Monday.
About 11 p.m. they quietly let him
out —on bail, on the understanding that
he would ride to Ravenswood in the
night and thence south. Before the miners
knew he had been set free he was out of
reach. He was soon over 700 miles away,
in Toowoomba.
With strong police reinforcements en-
suring order, several of the miners were
tried and eventually did a stretch for a
variety of offences, and The Towers
resumed its normal, boisterous life.
The price of meat at Millchester re-
mained stable for many a long year after-
wards.
MARTIN HALEY.


/
“KP
i
3
XIV)
:V»NEV
m
j „
Times have
changed - so has
This new label distinguishes
NEW K.B.
K.B. has always been good"—but now with
this new brew it is even better. Buy It
try it . . . you’ll like it.
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
; .i:v
.yVv'-;V
ifl
■i-:
:-..0
a
1
bOTTLtD 8t
LIJpiTiO
•y
K 8.161.32
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts Hke a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful py
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3k), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The “Herald” Float
'T'HE “Sydney Morning Herald”
conversion to a public com-
pany was the principal topic of
conversation in the Australian
sharemarkets last week. It was
remarked in Melbourne on
Wednesday by one interested
onlooker that those respon-
sible for the float seemed
to be dragging their feet in
getting out the prospectus, especi-
ally in view of the fact that
holders of Associated News-
papers ords. had only tip to
April 27 in which to decide
whether to accept the offer of
255. cash or one John Fairfax,
Ltd., ord. and ss. in cash. Then
came the announcement that the
prospectus would be issued on
April 16.
Sight of the prospectus unseen,
the market had dropped its bid
for Associated ords. from 28s. 6d.
to 265., then offered 275.
On this basis, the market’s
appraisement of Fairfax shares
was between 21s. and 235. 6d.
But it is probable that
such a backdoor method
of acquiring an interest
in the new float was a bit too
complicated for the investment
mentality of those who buy
shares by urge rather than by
calculation. *lt appears that
brokers have been besieged by
clients who want to buy “Herald”
shares direct and so acquire a
financial interest in the “Births,
Deaths and Marriages” column,
as well as in all those awful
rapes, horrors and things that
happen in “The Sun” every
evening.
There are many confusing
aspects of the flotation. One is
why an Associated Newspapers
ord. share has been treated as
being worth ss. more than a
Fairfax share. It may simply be
to expedite the deal with Associ-
ated shareholders.
Up to the beginning of this
week details of the float were as
complete a mystery as what
“Granny” dons for 'underwear.
No prospectus was to hand. All
that was known was that capital
will be fairly substantial —£4
million in ords., and £1,492,275
in Associated Newspapers prefs.,
apart from £1,500,000 of deben-
tures (interest-rate unknown) to
be taken by the Fairfaxes.
According to the last details
available from the Registrar-
General’s office in Sydney, John
Fairfax and Sons Pty., Ltd., had
a paid capital of £394,990 in
38,998 ords. of £1 each, 200,000
£1 A prefs., and 155,992 B prefs.
Of the ords., 16,162 were held
by Warwick Oswald Fairfax,
10,995 by Vincent Charles Fair-
fax,- 7801 by the estate of the
late Sir J. O. Fairfax (Warwick
Fairfax’s father), blocks of 2000
and 2038 in group-names.
Lady Mabel Alice Emmeline
Fairfax held one share and
Marcie Elizabeth Gilly one
share.
Of the prefs., Warwick Fairfax
held 58,445 A’s and 39,756 B’s.
Vincent Fairfax had 43,265 A’s
and 22,412 B’s. The estate of
the late Sir J. O. Fairfax held
39,005 A’s and 31,204 B’s.
R. A. G. Henderson and Hazel
Alice Margaret Henderson
appeared together for 810 A
prefs., A. H. McLachlan for 400.
Other “Herald” executives and
staff are on the list of pref.-
shareholders.
The important relationship
between earnings and capital had
yet to be revealed when
this was written. Naturally,
this relationship will govern the
matter of whether profits will be
spread over new shareholders’
money thickly or thinly.
Sharemarket Shakes
r pHERE was a sharp shake in
the sharemarkets last week,
in which a number of the leaders
suffered. 8.H.P., which had
opened so strongly after Easter,
lost ground, and so did Tooth,
A.C.1., Edwards Dunlop, Burns
Philp and many others. Davis
Gelatine slipped suddenly, after
sustained support. Yarra
Falls fell to 275. The worst
market fall was on Wednesday of
last week, which coincided with
the reopening of the debate on
the Federal Government’s
eeconomic proposals.
But March and April are
usually bad months on ’Change,
anyway, partly because of
the heavy taxation-assessments
that have to be met between
now and June. An uncertain
market tone is likely for some
time to come.
Active in the market at present
are the rights to the Masonite
issue of ord. shares.. They have
strengthened to just under Bs.,
and even at that price are worth
attention. Bank of N.S.W. rights
also can still be picked up at
£5 10s.
Tooheys convertible notes,
lOs.-paid, are selling at around
11s., which is better than might
have been expected from *a 90
p.c. subscription of the offering.
But they are not overpriced by
any means. It was the unusual
nature of the offering that rather
puzzled some investors.
Tancred Bros. Industries 10s.
ords. opened at 135.-14 s.
Slightly depressed at the
moment, Linoleum Holdings
shares should be worth buying
to hold at 265. Their long-term
qualities are outstanding.
A short time back The
Bulletin drew attention to the
overt investment merits of
Kandos Cement shares by con-
trast with Standard Cement scrip
when the Kandos £l-paids and
the Standard 165.-paids were
both around 355.-365.
In the present quieter market
Kandos scrip is at 38s. 3d.,
Standard at 295. 6d.
Petroleum and Structure
CROM L. Owen: When I
wrote pointing out that post-
Jurassic structures in themselves
play only a minor part in the
segregation of commercial
“pools” of petroleum on the Aus-
tralian mainland, (B. 11/4/’56),
Wapet’s new exploratory drilling
programme had not been pub-
lished. When it was, the details
of the revised scheme astonished
me.
I have maintained, from the
commencement of the so-called
“developmenta 1” technique
adopted in test-well location at
Rough Range, that the problem
there does not consist solely in
the recognition and delimitation
of domes, anticlines and other
structures which could—under
favorable conditions —segregate
crude petroleum under structural
“highs’’ in commercial quantities.
Such a solution would be justi-
fiable only where the geological
environment approximates to
that commonly illustrated in text-
books.
At Rough Range, the charac-
teristics^of the crude-oil struck
in No. 1 well indicated, rather
obviously, that it had undergone
not only long-distance migration
but inspissation as well —which
was in accordance with the
known geological history of the
area. The results from wells Nos.
2 and 3 not only confirmed this
hypothesis, but also proved that
the “fossil” seepage, so un-
expectedly and fortuitously
encountered on Rough Range
No. 1 well, was of limited
extent, and that the Birdrong
Sandstone horizon did not pro-
duce the results which were to
be expected from a normal
reservoir-sand body.
Wells Nos. 4,5, 6,7, 8 and 9
merely served to strengthen this
point of view without offering
any real clue as to the nature and
path (or paths) of the oil-migra-
tion. As I pointed out at the
time, the drilling of these wells
appeared to me to be a waste
of money and effort.
The new programme as
decided upon in Perth on April
4 and released to the press late
on April 6 —consists of the drill-
ing of about 24 exploratory bores
in all. Of these, eight .will be
sunk along the southern exten-
sion of the Rough Range struc-
ture to a depth of 1500 ft. and
two to 4000 ft. It is possible
(although, as Professor John
Perry would have said, “mighty
improbable”) that a second lense
of long-distance-migrated oil
may be “miraculously” struck in
one of these holes. However,
drilling on such premises is diffi-
cult to excuse, particularly when
undertaken by a company which
is backed by organisations with
world-wide experience in oil-
finding and employing a technical
staff controlled by able and
experienced scientists,
I was frankly puzzled as to
the reasons behind the location
and sinking of Rough Range
wells Nos. 4 to 9, inclusive, and
I am even more puzzled by the
proposed programme which
cannot do much to solve the pre-
Cretaceous geological history of
the Carnarvon Basin and the
form of the structures under-
lying it —items of vital import-
ance in the search for oil.


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY,
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER,
WHEN
BUSINESS
GOES
ABROAD
Organising a business trip is a most important
matter, requiring careful thought and planning.
Experienced businessmen have found that it
pays to consult A.N.Z. Bank. In addition to
unsurpassed facilities for foreign currency
arrangements, complete travel services and
worthwhile business introductions are provided
as normal features of the Bank’s highly
organised' service for travelling businessmen.
Officers of A.N.Z. Bank too, are constantly on
the move throughout the world, and their
experience ensures that A.N.Z. Bank’s service
for travelling businessmen is always up-to-date.
Every A.N.Z. Bank Manager is backed by
specialised departments which make full use
of the Bank’s contacts throughout the world.
A*N*Z
When planning a
business trip:
11 Ask A.N.Z. Bank. 11
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea*
and in London.
Agents throughout fhe World.
-ANZ.55.1389-
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
■'■•-'V
m.
45* THE MEM WHO DRBVE THEM
s *-, 4; ■?
■
2i litre Maserati
English-born Reg Hunt, well-known
Melbourne racing driver, is now driving
a 2\-litre Maserati lent him by the
Maserati Company following successes
with an earlier Maserati which he brought *
back after a European racing season in 1954.
Reg has driven the new Maserati to victory
in the 1956 South Pacific Championship, the
Victorian Trophy and the Albert Park Trophy.
.
BENZOL can make
all the difference to your car
cut
SUPER
SUPER
NDARD
Any experienced racing driver will tell you the
addition of extra BENZOL to his fuel is a must
to get Optimum Performance from his engine.
Racing speeds won’t interest private
motorists but all the ‘OP’ advantages of
extra BENZOL will . . . You’ll appreciate
the quicker starting, livelier acceleration
and smoother, more positive power of BP
SUPER or C.O.R STANDARD . . .
BENZOL makes all the difference ! And,
too, both these fuels are plus BP 08 to keep
top cylinder areas cleaner, longer.
HIGHEST OCTANE and the only
patrols in Australia containing BENZOL
BP SUPER, like Special Energol VISCO-STATIC Motor Oil
—the original 4 grades in I oil—acclaimed by world motorists—
is worth so much more than the extra it costs.
Marketed by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum
Company Ltd. 3 /C354D
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
PRELIMINARY figures indi-
cate that about £4O million
of the Maoriland Government’s
£5O-million conversion loan will
be taken up. The result is as
good ,as could reasonably be
expected in view of current
economic conditions. Anything
like 100 per cent, conversion was
an obvious impossibility.
In the closing stages of the
operation Finance Minister
Watts announced that about
June the Government intended
to seek a new cash loan on the
same terms as the conversion
loan, namely, 4f per cent, for
long-term and 4i- per cent, for
short-term stock.
The announcement was
apparently made in order to
remove from the minds of
holders of maturing stock any
inclination to take their cash and
sit on the fence in the hope of
better terms later.
Mr. Watts said that the amount
of the loan would be “fairly
large.” This might mean any-
thing from £2O million to £3O
million. In 1953 and again in
1954 the Government raised £3O
million of new money, but in
1955 it kept its demands down
to £lO million.
Power Shortage
At a time when increased pro-
duction is of paramount im-
portance, Maoriland has recently
been facing another of its recur-
rent electric-power shortages,
caused by the low level of water
in the lakes which drive the
country’s hydroelectric system.
Appeals for conservation
having failed to produce the
necessary savings, compulsory
cut-offs were - imposed in both
North and South Islands, and it
was reported that extensive cuts
for industry as well as domestic
users were looming-up.
Power-consumption has been
increasing by a steady 10 p.c. a
year. Maoriland has already
spent £127 million on power
projects, and, by 1961, will have
spent more than £2OO million.
Generating - capacity, now
940,000 kilowatts, is expected to
be doubled in the next six to
seven years. After that further
huge increases will be necessary.
The Government recently
decided to investigate the prac-
ticability of linking the power-
systems of the North and South
Islands with a submarine cable
across Cook Strait. Callender’s
Cables, Ltd., is making the in-
vestigation, which should be
complete by the end of this year.
If the verdict is favorable, the
Government will launch an
extensive hydro-construction pro-
gramme in the South to supply
the power needs of both islands.
It is estimated that, if power
from hydpo-stations can be trans-
mitted across Cook Strait, it will
save New Zealand £lO million
a year by making it unnecessary
to resort to nuclear-stations in
the North Island. The over-all
cost of hydro-power at Welling-
ton from the South Island would
be slightly less than the cost of
similar power from the Lower
Waikato stations in the centre
of the North Island.
Meantime, the Government
proposes to build a new hydro-
station with an installed generat-
ing-capacity of up to 350,000
kilowatts at Benmore, on the
Waitaki River, in the South
Island. This would be a major
part of the first stage in the
development of the Cook Strait
Cable project. The whole under-
taking, including the station, the
laying of-cables'and the erection
of transmission-lines, is estimated
to cost £3B million.
A Government spokesman
recently stated in the House of
Representatives that, if the Cook
Strait cable project were adopted,
no new heavy industry in
which electricity formed a large
proportion of the cost of pro-
duction would be allowed to
commence operation in the
North Island if it could function
equally well in the South Island.
Gas Shares
Gas shares, long the Cinderella
of the sharemarket, have had
something in the nature of a
party since they were touched
by the magic wand of Govern-
ment interest. The gas-industry,
which had been going through
a difficult period due to loss of
custom and high capital-expendi-
ture, last year suggested that the
Government might take over.
Faced with a chronic shortage
of electric power, the Govern-
ment had to lend a sympathetic
ear. It can’t allow the gas-industry
to disintegrate. It would cost at
least £25 million to' provide
alternative electric power, and,
the additional load would fall
mainly on the North Island,
where the shortage is most acute.
A new power-station of at least
110,000 kilowatts would be
needed.
The suggestion of nationalisa-
tion raised something of a howl,
and the Government appointed
the Electricity and Gas Co-
ordination Committee to investi-
gate ways and means for the
electric - power - supply authori-
ties to acquire essential gas-
works. As negotiations have got
under way interest in the shares
of the bigger and more pros-
perous gas companies has
increased sharply.
Wellington Gas, for instance,
jumped from 20s. 6d. in July
last to 355. 6d. at the end of
March.
Incidentally, the company has
come to light with its best profit
for 20 years—£lo,ooo up at
£33,000 —and has brought in
£25,000 accumulated overprovi-
sion for tax. Government valua-
tion of its property is £170,000,
against a book-value of only
£22,000.
The Wellington company,
however, is rather aft exception.
There are in all about 35 gas
undertakings, and most of the
smaller ones are really up against
it.
Cement Supplies
Though demand for cement
for Maoriland’s heavy building
projects is growing, it should
not be long, on present indica-
tions, before local production is
sufficient to eliminate imports.
In the calendar-year 1955 pro-
duction was a record -at about
400,000 tous—7s to 80 per cent,
of requirements.
Provision for increased output
is going ahead rapidly. Wilson’s
Cement has already brought
extensipns into production,
Golden Bay has plans for
another kiln, Southland’s new
vertical kiln is under construc-
tion, and Milburn has forecast
plant-expansion. In addition,
two new companies have been
floated: Waitomo Portland
Cement, Ltd., with a nominal
capital of £500,000, paid to
£400,000, and New Zealand
Cement Co., Ltd., with
£1,300,000 paid-up. This co. is
sponsored by four United King-
dom firms, which have sub-
scribed a total of £1 million.
Another £200,000 has been
placed privately in London, with
the subscribers of £500,000 of
6 p.c. debenture-stock, and a
£lOO,OOO Maoriland issue was
recently oversubscribed. Total
capital cost is estimated at
£2,100,000, and the balance will
be raised later. The company
will operate a factory near West-
port with a capacity of at least
100,000 tons a year. The
Waitomo plant will have an
initial capacity of 40,000 tons,
but is planned for expansion to
60,0G0 tons and ultimately
double that.
Whales
There is a touch of romance
in the revival off Great Barrier
Island by a new company,
Hauraki Whaling, Ltd., of
Maoriland’s oldest industry.
Captain Cook first drew atten-
tion to the possibilities in 1770,
but it was not till nearly 30
years later that whaling began.
By 1840 there were between 1200
and 1400 whaling-ships, about
half of them American, working
round Maoriland. From then
on the industry declined, though
there is still one station operat-
ing successfully at Tory Channel.
On an assumed annual catch
of 150 humpback whales, with
oil at its present price of about
£9O a ton, the Hauraki company
estimates that it would make a
profit of 35.5 p.c. on its £lOO,OOO
capital, which the public readily
subscribed. The ss. shares
quickly went to a premium of
about Is. 9d.
Beer
The old-established Leopard
Brewery in Hastings, owned
since 1881 by the Newbigin
family, has been bought by a
Maoriland-registered company
sponsored by Fraser and Neave,
Ltd., and Mala/an Breweries,
Ltd., both of S: igapore. It is
reported that t’ e new owners
plan a substanti 1 building pro-
gramme.
Fraser and N ave, established
in 1898, are aer; ted-water manu-
facturers, with large sharehold-
ings in breweries, especially
Malayan Breweries, Ltd. They
have recently extended their
brewing interests to New Guinea.
It may be that they have decided
to disperse their assets to more
stable countries than Malaya.
Tasman Pulp’s £1 shares,
which had soared to 305., helped
by the stimulus of substantial
London buying, have recently
weakened. The last sale before
Easter was at 265. The co. has
had to contend with a good deal
of industrial strife. Newspaper-
proprietors were disappointed by
its failure to supply orders
amounting to 7000 tons of news-
print in 1955, but have expressed
the hope that it may be able to
make up the deficiency in 1956,
in addition to supplying the
year’s contract quantity of
20,000 tons.


Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
\ n
a
h
m
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desired
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OE* DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr, G. M. Barron, 0.8. E,
( V ice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
/. R. Faviell
G. B. Kater
Manager: IS. L. Shato
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officers
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPAIVY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT. 100.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
TN these days of high cost-of-living, high
taxation and rising welfare-standards,
it is difficult for the individual to pro-
vide adequately—other than through life-
assurance—for his security on retirement,
or for the security of his family and
dependants upon his death, especially if
it should be premature. A contract
with a sound regular-bonus-giving office
not only meets these and a multiplicity
of other needs, but the savings effected
meanwhile by payment of premiums con-
tribute, through investment of the funds,
to the creation of new national, industrial
and private assets and the employment
to which they give rise. Hence the im-
portance of life-assurance in both the
economic and social structures.
The M.L.C. writes ordinary, industrial
and accident business in Australia, New
Zealand, Canada and the U.K. It collects
its income and manages its investments
at moderate cost, its assets are worth
more than their book-value, and comfort-
able margins exist in all matters upon
which bonuses to policyholders, sound-
ness and progress depend. The popularity
of the co.’s contracts rests upon their
attractiveness and soundness, and is
illustrated by the rapid growth of the
business over the last decade: -
1945. 1955.
New business* .. .. £15,748,974 £67,785,280
Annual incomef .. .. 6,696,360 20,153,127
Business in force .. .. 133,135,864 434,485,158
Total assets 45,960,825 122,310,347
* Ordinary and industrial combined. f Excluding
taxation, but including tax refund.
Inflation, population-growth, group assur-
ance and the life-cover connected with
loans for home-building all helped to
bump up the figures.
Of the record £67,785,280 (up
£9,506,653) of new business put on the
books last term, £55,867,235 (up
£8,863,566) was ordinary and £11,918,045
(up £643,087) industrial. Of the year’s
total income of £20,153,127 (up
£1,949,940) in the two life sections,
£15,740,633 (up £1,483,790) was premiums
and £4,412,494 (up £466,150) interest,
rents, etc. Here are the figures for each
department:
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
From tax refunds, £578,830 .. ..]
’53.. 11,675.736 3,376,744 1,501,266 13,946 1- 7,307,382
To staff fund, £55,228 J
From currency revaluation, £180,146 ]
From tax refund, £27,000 .. oa ,
’54.. 13,397,803 3,803,519 1,727,094 84,136 f 7 > 9 A7,361
To staff fund, £62,839 J
’55.. 15,127,627 4,168,607 2,002,903 21,303 I 8,864,427
To staff fund, £70,387 .. .. j
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec. Income.f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
From tax refunds, £177,964 .. 1
1953.. 1,458,584 1,049,014 2,630 I 1,962,260
To general branch, £lOO,OOO .. |
To staff fund, £21,423 .. ..J
From currency revaluation, £109,837 f
From tax refund, £33,000 .. .. |
1954.-4,745,384 1,630,985 1,080,397 39,235 1 2,054,943
To staff fund, £22,661 .. .. |
To general branch, £60,000 .. .. J
From tax refund, £7064 .. ..1
1955.. 5.018.436 1,793,942 1,149,374 10,265 I 1,998,114
To staff fund, £23,805 . . . . |
To general branch, £50,000 .. J
f After deducting taxes. * Including shareholders’
proportion of profits.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., writing £31,566 off the book-value
of securities, sending £94,192 to the staff
fund and £50,000 to the general branch,
£10,462,541 was added to the assurance
funds (£109,220,360), from which £400,000
was transferred to general reserves
(£4,800,000), which also belong to policy-
holders. It is a very strong position.
The size of the policyholders’ cake—
the excess of assurance funds ovef actu-
arial liabilities, calculated on a stringent
2} p.c. in the O.D. and 2 p.c. in the I.D.
—continues to grow, the year’s increase
being £336,624 in the O.D. and £75,879
in the 1.D.:
Surplus.
1952. 1953. 1954. 1955.
£>£>£>£
Ordinary .. '1,672,724 1,999,291 2,615,541 2,952,165
Industrial .. 286,780 351,435 442,862 518,741
Total .. 1,959,504 2,350,726 3,058,403 3,470,906
Bonuses to policyholders, which were
“substantially” increased a year ago,
have been maintained at the higher rates.
In 1954 94.5 p.c. of the O.D. surplus was
distributed in bonuses.
Chief factor responsible for the bigger
surpluses and fatter bonuses has been
the rise in the net rate of interest earned
on the assurance funds—£4 10s. sd. p.c.
(up 2s. sd. p.c.) O.D. and £4 6s. p.c. (up
1 Id. p.c.) I.D. last term, making the growth
19s. 2d. p.c. and 13s. p.c. respectively over
the last four years. And the recent stiffen-
ing of interest-rates in the market should
further help the co.’s net earnings as
lower-interest-bearing securities mature
and are reinvested. For this and other
reasons the outlook of policyholders is
attractive.
The mortality experience was well
below that allowed for, and the ratio of
exes, to net premium income increased
only slightly, due mainly to the record
volume of new business put on the
books—the ratios were 16.6 p.c. (up 0.5
p.c.) O.D. and 28.3 p.c. (up 0.4 p.c.) I.D.
In the general branch, which belongs
to shareholders, the surplus was £189,131,
or 18.9 p.c. on the £1,000,000 share-
capital, which is backed by £1,406,108 of
reserves. The div. was lifted from 23.3
p.c. to 25 p.c. At 955. (buyer) the f.-p.
£1 shares return 5.2 p.c. on a 25 p.c. div.-
basis, with good long-term prospects.
In 1946 82 p.c. of the assets was repre-
sented by Grovernment securities, 11.5
p.c. mortgages and 1.6 p.c. debentures and
shares. At December 31 last the propor-
tions were 47.1 p.c., 33.2 p.c. and 13.1 p.c.
respectively, which.helps to explain the
marked growth in the co.’s interest earn-
ings over the period:
1954. p.c. 1955. p.c.
Govt, securitiesf £59,380,876 53.5 £57,598,616 47.1
Mortgages, etc... 32,860,904 29.6 40,613,819 33.2
Loans on policies 2,849,749 2.6 3,319,453 2.7
Debtors, etc. . . 1,250,173 1.1 1,406,604 1.2
Property . . 1,683,226 1.5 3,369,731 2.7
Debentures, etc. 7,138,504 6.4 9,421,227 7.7
Shares .. .. 5,930,972 5.3 6,580,897 5.4
£111,094,404 £122,310,347
Liabilities* .. 4,680,438 4,885,707
Net assets . £106,413,966 £117,424,640
f Includes municipal and public bodies. * Other than
under policies.
Last term mortgages increased by
£7,752,915, debentures by £2,282,723 and
shareholdings by £649,925, while Gov-
ernment securities were reduced by
£1,782,260. The addition of £2,119,558
to property was mostly on account of the
fine new office-premises—they will be one
of the largest in Australia —which the co.
is building at North Sydney.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
TN the battle between nylon and rayon
-*• nylon has won the day. Lustre, which
has always been a large producer of
rayon lingerie and fabrics, failed to
recognise the turn in the tide of demand
and price early enough. So it had to
make clearances at ctit prices and write
down remaining stocks by an unstated
amount at balancing-date. The result
was a net loss of £58,529 for the year
to December 31 last. That was after
taking into account £27,840 received in
divs. from the subsidiaries—Lustre (N.Z.),
Ltd., and Silktex Pty. So the parent co.
itself therefore made a loss of £86,369.
It was the first thing of its kind to show
up for over 28 years, and the fourth time
that shareholders had failed to receive
a div.—they were passed by for the three
difficult years to 1932.
That the management was caught off
guard seems plain from the fact that,
following conversion of 83,333 £1 10
p.c. prefs. into ords. on a par basis in
October, 1954, the board considered the
position good enough to scatter £lOO,OOO
of bonus-scrip. Then in January, 1955,
116,267 new £1 ords. were issued at par,
partly to lighten the outside debt. A
couple of months later the directors
reported that “our winter lines of lingerie
and our nylon-production are both meet-
ing with excellent demand in spite of
adverse conditions, and your board hopes
to be able to report considerable improve-
ment as the year progresses.” The chair-
man will, no doubt; give bewildered
shareholders a full account of what hap-
pened at the annual meeting on April 20.
The extent of the loss surprised the
market, which, suspecting that all was
not well, had shortened its bid for the
f.-p. £1 shares from 355. 6d. a year ago
to 275. in December last. Then, follow-
ing publicatiqn of the accounts, the figure
dropped to 205., at which price the scrip
appears to offer attractive possibilities.
On capital as it now stands an 8 p.c. div.
(and therefore a like investment-return)
would call for less than 60 p.c. of average
net earnings for the five years to the end
of 1954. Net tangible coyer (book-value)
is 335. 6d., of which lfs. 9d. is repre-
sented by surplus liquids and 21s. 7d. by
fixed assets (including shares in sub-
sidiaries), worth what they can earn.
The ords. received a steady 9 p.c. for
the decade to 1949, followed by an aver-
age of 11.5 p.c. for the five years to
1954, which took only 51.6 p.c. of the
profit for the latter period:
, Dividends , To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ . £ £
1950.110,074 10 p.c. 124 p.c. 55,332 *54,742 249,311
Unexplained addition, £28,000 ..277,311
Assets revalued, £200,000 .. .. 477,311
1951.. 89.487 10 p.c. 10* p.c. 49,333 40,154 517,465
1952.. 74.123 10 „10 „ 48,334 25,789 543,253
1953.109,125 10 „ 12* „ 58,333 50,792 594,045
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 494,045
1954.. 88.015 10f p.c. 12* p.c. 61,874 26,141 520,186
Loss.
Tax overprovided, £10,940 .. ..509,246
1955.. 58.529 472,597
* Six months only. Prefs. converted to ords.
as from July 1, 1954.
Last term’s loss was arrived at after
allowing £41,592 (up £4188) for depreci-
ation ; previous overprovision for taxa-
tion (£10,944) was not 9 taken into the
reckoning.
Also, over the last half-dozen years or
more, a lot of old plant has been replaced
with modem fast-running labor-saving
machines, mostly capable of handling
nylon and other synthetic fibres. And a
new factory was recently completed at
Newcastle. In its latest report (March
29) the board says the position generally
has improved since the close of accounts,
sales for 1956 have increased substantially
over the corresponding period of 1955,
the nylon-underwear section is showing
greatly improved figures for sales arid
production, winterwear is selling to expec-
tations, and the outlook is distinctly more
favorable. On the other hand, and
despite import-restrictions, competition in
the trade is keener and margins narrower
than of recent years. Still, provided the
stock position is now at bedrock, pros-
pects of the co. earning a profit and
returning to the dividend-list during the
current term are not unpromising.
Stocks (down £29,127) appear at the
“lower of cost or market-value,” and
debtors’ balances (down £21,645) less
provision for doubtful accounts:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Ord.' cartel 1 V. *400,000 } £583,33S £699,600
Reserves .. 594,045 520,186 472,597
Mortgages .. 190,000 185,000 280,000
Overdraft .. 245,272 401,889 340,912
Due to subsids... 8,183
Creditors .. 73,283 94,355 64,169
Tax provision.. 113,867 94,850 16,500
Final div. . . 34,167 32,708
£1,733,967 £1,920,504 £1,873,778
Freeholds . . 503,906 516,728 522,055
Plant . . . . 167,864 222,646 214,933
Shares subsids.. . 17,210 17,210 17,210
Due by subsids.. . 393 225 6,628
Stock .. . . 785,730 932,476 903,349
Debtors . . . . 258,205 230,487 208,842
Cash, etc. .. 659 732 . 761
£1,733,967 £1,920,504 £1,873,778
The £116,267 of fresh share-capital
gathered during the year, together with
an extra £95,000 raised on mortgage, was
used partly to clip £60,977 off the over-
draft and reduce the amount coming to
sundry creditors by £30,186. Excluding
shares in subsidiaries, the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£411,371) increased by
£64,661.
Waters Holdings, Ltd.
CJINCE the present holding co. was
formed in 1951, the market has
regarded its f.-p. £1 shares as a holding
proposition, which is what they are,
immediate interest centring in the divi-
dend-rate, with satisfactory long-term
prospects. Apart from the recent increase
of Is. in the £1 in the rate of co.-tax,
which added £4500 to last term’s allow-
ance for the purpose (£38,500), other
Government measures to correct the cur-
rent economic malaise, including import-
restrictions, appear to have had little
effect upon last term’s net earnings. The
fall in the price of the scrip from 255. 6d.
to 245. over the last 12 months is a
reflex of events on the bond-market upon
equity values, and is proportionately less
than the shrinkage in the average market-
price for sound ord. scrip. At 245. the
return is a satisfactory 6.2 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover is
18s. 2d.
The wholly-owned operating subsidiary
(Waters Trading Co.), founded by C. S.
Waters early in this century, imports
Eastern produce, exports Australian
agricultural products, mills rice, peas and
barley, grinds spices, and vends coir-mats,
rugs, blinds, furnishing, etc. It paid divs.
averaging 13.4 p.c. for the 14 years to
1951. Then the present holding co.
bought all the 153,870 f.-p. £1 shares for
£615,487 in its own scrip. The price
exceeded net tangibles at the date of
acquisition by £210,000, and was equiva-
lent to a four-for-one bonus share-issue.
The div. was dropped from \l\ p.c. to 6
p.c., but the lower rate was equal to 24
p.c. on the trading co.’s capital. For
the three years to the close of last
accounts p.c. was paid, and there is
nothing in sight at the moment to suggest
that that rate is likely to be interfered
with.
After making the allowance for taxa-
tion already mentioned, there was a slip
of £4060 in last term’s declared net
result: —
Waters Holdings, Ltd., and Subsidiary.
March Profit. , Dividends , Deficit.*
31, £ £ £
To share capital, £461,610 .. 236,575
Preliminary exes., £3296 .. 239,871
Loss sale assets, £3411 .. 243,282
1952 .. 72,232 6 p.c. = 36,930 207,980
To staff fund, £2500 ..
1953 .. 79,356 6 p.c. = 36,930 f 168,054
To staff fund, £2500 ..
1954 .. 107,440 74 p.c. = 46,162 f 109,276
1955 .. 67,506 74 „ „ 46,162 87,932
Profit sale assets, £17,915 .. 70,017
To staff fund. £2500 .. ..) „„„
1956 .. 63,446 7* p.c. = 46,161 J 55,232
* After deducting intangibles, £210,000 at 31/3/’56.
The £63,446 of profit was 10.3 p.c. on
capital as against 10.9, 17.7, 12.8 and
11.7 p.c. back to 1952. That leaves out of
the reckoning a capital gain of £17,915
on sale of a redundant property. At
March 31 last the amount of capital
unrepresented by tangibles in the books
had been reduced to £55,232.
It was a satisfactory showing consider-
ing the easing of prices for and increased
supplies of Eastern produce, and the
sharpening of competition in the grocery
trade and other fields in which the co.
operates. Government statistics suggest
that the two rice-mills in which the co.
is interested—one in the Murray valley
and the other in the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Area —continued to win satisfac-
tory returns. Local consumption of rice,
however, accounts for little more than
one-quarter of total production, and
competition in the export field from
Burma and Siam is growing. The experi-
mental rice-project in which the co. is
interested in the Kimberleys (W.A.) has
shown that the grain can be successfully


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Fliison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classihers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
For Sale By Tender
ISLAND PLANTATION
AREA:
1650 acres, comprising the whole of Garua
acres are planted with coconuts and cocoa.
LOCATION:
180 miles west of Rabaul, at Talasea ; is
Moresby to Rabaul,
ANCHORAGES:
4 good, all-weather.
LOADING:
First-class wharf, schooner loads alongside.
FRESH WATER SPRINGS:
2 large, several small.
PRODUCTION:
Av. 832 tons copra p.a, Cocoa, 24 tons p.a.
BUILDINGS:
6 good furnished bungalows, 1 with mod. conv. All plantation
buildings in first-class order, and include school and cinema.
PLANT:
2 electric light plants, 2 Chula copra dryers, 3 Ceylon do., 1 rotary
cocoa dryer and fermentary, 100 ton schooner and slipway, 1 motor
fishing dory, 2 Ferguson tractors and trailer, 1 Chev. truck, 1 Land-
Rover, tramways, saw mill and much other equipment.
NATIVE LABOR:
190 are employed, including 60 locals, some 25 of which have their
wives and families and are suitably housed.
Tenders for the above will be received by the Vendor’s Accountants,
Messrs. Karris & Horne, 84 William Street, Melbourne. Further
particulars can be supplied in writing or at interviews by appointment
in response to written application to Harris & Horne.
The highest or any tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders close at 5 p.m. on May 30, 1956.
OF GARUA
Island, of which 1100
on the air route Port
GEOLOGIST
Applications are invited for the
position of Geologist to operate
in the Northern Territory. Salary
depending on qualifications and
experience. Apply to the Secre-
tary—
North Australian Uranium
Corporation,
Box 4402, G.P.0., Sydney.
SURVEYOR
Applications are invited for the
position of Surveyor to operate
in the Northern Territory. Salary
depending on qualifications and
experience. Apply to the Secre-
tary—
North Australian Uranium
Corporation,
Box 4402, G.P.0., Sydney.
0
0
MORE MILES!
miracle Cold Rubber
creates sensational records
for
GOODYEAR
TYRES
Records! These Goodyear Tyres
with miracle "Cold Rubber"
really send records toppling. On
all roads, under every con-
dition, they're demonstrating
conclusively a toughness that
sets them right apart from
tyres constructed with other
rubber. And it's not toughness
for the sake of toughness; it's
toughness that means an
amazingly big bonus in extra
miles.
Conservative estimates rate
extra mileage at 22 per cent.
And the secret? Goodyear
miracle "Cold Rubber" has a
molecular structure twice as
compact and far tougher than
other types of rubber.
This more compact structure
allows tyres to resist road
abrasion as never before
makes them the biggest mile-
age tyres ever.
!I / /
/
gj
I
m
good/year
TUBELESS 1 ' and TUBE-TYPE TYRES
"Famous Goodyear Tubeless pierced with nails can be driven many miles without air loss.
grown there, but whether it can
be exported at a profit remains
to be seen.
The financial position further
improved, the growth in the
more-or-less liquid su rpl u s
(£166,805, excluding sharehold-
ings) being £17,394:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital 615,487 615,487 615,487
» Reserves .. 100,724 122,068 154,768
Creditors, etc. 281,958 501,526 555,475
Final div... 27,697 27,697 27,697
1,025,866 1,266,778 1,353,427
Freeholds .. 234,891 234,891 243,947
Plant, etc. 77.514 80,563 86,568
Shares .. 58,931 62,690 62,935
Stock .. 248,326 532,562 528,605
Debtors . . 184,180 146,067 221,345
Cash, bonds 12,024 5 27
Intangibles 210,000 210,000 210,000
1,025,866 1,266,778 1,353,427
A substantial portion of the large
amounts coming to creditors,
etc., and owing to debtors con-
sists of self-liquidating items
connected with the co.’s export
trade.
Carrier Air Conditioning
'T'HE provision of public
amenities by traders and
others has gained wide acceptance
of recent years. In this field air-
conditioning, especially of large
shops, factories, hospitals, public
offices, mines, ships,, etc., once
looked upon as a luxury, has
come to be regarded as essential
to the comfort of both the public
and employees by all who can
afford it.
In these circumstances the
co.’s business is now thriving, and
the outlook for shareholders is
more robust than at any time
since the Australian and New
Zealand rights of the Carrier
Corp. (U.S.) were acquired, and
trading commenced, in 1932.
Over the last five years sales
and net profits have both in-
creased over 3| times, and the
ords. have had divs. averaging
10.1 p.c., which called for only
43 p.c. of the equity earnings.
During the same period reserves
advanced from £74,665 to
£191,933.
The only addition to capital
was a one-for-two par issue of
87,500 £1 ords. last term to help
finance erection of a new factory
at Seven Hills, near Sydney. The
issue lifted the total on the
register to £312,500 in 50,000
5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 262,500
ords., on which there was
£43,750 in respect of the new
issue still to come when the
books last closed. To give pref.
shareholders a more equitable
return on their capital, the board
recently offered to convert pref.
shares on a par basis into 7 p.c.
unsecured notes, repayable in
five years, or alternately to
returh the capital in full.
Last term sales increased by
£294,900 (55 p.c.), reaching
£827,080. After allowing
£16,086 (up £3956) for depreci-
ation, £42,000 (up £8000), or
7s. 9d. in the £, for taxation,
and handing £18,671 to
employees in profit - sharing
bonuses, the net result was
£13,984 stronger at £66,696:
, Dividends N Re-
Jne.,Prft. Pref. f Ord. serves.*
30, 6 p.c.
£ £ £ £
’52..28,827 2500 > 9 p.c. = 15,300 100,932
W/off intangibles, £l5OO .. 99,432
Surplus’ sale assets, £3001.. 102,433
’63..48,133 2500' 10 p.c. = 17,000 131,006
W/off intangibles, £11,796 .. 119,270
Surplus sale assets, £329 .. 119,599
’54..52,712 2500 10 p.c. = 17,250 152,561
Tax underprovided, £49 .. 152,512
Surplus sale assets. £382 .. 152,894
’55..66,696 2500 . 121p.c.=25,157 191,933
* Subject to intangibles ( £11,796 at
31/6/’53), which were rubbed out of the
accounts in the 1954 term.
After paying the pref. div., the
balance of last year’s profit was
equal to 30.6 p.c. on average
ord. capital compared with 29.1,
26.8, 18.4 and 12.2 p.c. back to
1951. So nothing had to be
strained when the div. was lifted
from 10 p.c. to p.c.
Balance-sheet figures reflect
continued growth of the business,
as well as a comfortable financial
structure:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord. ... 170,000 175,000 218,750
Reserves .. 121,807 152,561 191,933
Overdraft . . 19,174
Creditors, etc. 85,617 86,222 164,132
Tax provision 44,767 34,000 42,000
Final divs. 10,200 8,750' 16,407
£482,391 £506,533 £702,396
Freeholds . . 109,792 130,550 151,687
Plant, etc... 56,152 66,603 71,633’
Stock . . 174,299 210,183 316,077
Debtors .. 84,109 79,337 152,113
Cash, etc. . . 46,243 19,860 10,886
Intangibles . 11,796
£482,391 £506,533 £702,396
The £43,750 of fresh share-
capital, together with £19,174
from the bank and an extra
£77,910 from sundry creditors,
etc., went £21,137 into freeholds,
£5030 (net) plant, £105,894 stocks
and £72,776 book-debts. The
improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£237,363) was
£56,955. The co.’s Sydney free-
hold, in at £75,000, was inde-
pendently revalued a year ago at
over £lOO,OOO, but no account has
been taken of the difference in
the books.
The board reports that a high
percentage of new office-build-
ings, as well as new and old
department-stores, are installing
air - conditioning equipment.
Sales have continued to increase
since the close of accounts, the
Seven Hills factory is being
extended, and land adjacent to
the factory in South Brisbane has
been bought. Subject to the
extent that the credit-squeeze
may damp down demand for the
co.’s products, the outlook for
business is bright.
To help finance its current
programme of expansion the co.
issued at par in October last
£150,000 7 p.c. registered un-
secured notes, maturing October
31, 1960. Of the issue (under-
written by J. B. Were and Son),
£50,000 was taken by pref. share-
holders in connection with the
offer already mentioned. Since
last term’s profit was 14.4 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined), the £lOO,OOO
of new note-money looks like
earning a lot more than its keep,
and thus further strengthening
earnings available for the ords.
At 345. (395. ex-rights a year
ago) the f.-p. £1 ords. return 7.3
p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. basis.
Including uncalled capital, net
tangible cover is 345. 7d.
Mining Corp. (Aust.), N.L.
Floated in Melbourne in mid-
-1955, this co. took over three
separate mineral leases in N.Q.
—a cobalt deposit at Mount
Cobalt, a copper-lead-zinc claim
alongside the big deposit at Mt.
Isa and a uranium lease south of
Cloncurry.
Test-drilling at Mt. Cobalt has
indicated that the mineralisation
is likely to extend for thousands
of feet both laterally and in
depth, and that values ebb and
flow, with some rich pockets in
an extensive envelope of lower-
grade material, capped by a
flat cylindrical-shaped body of
quartzite. In the old mine there
is 21,000 tons of blocked ore,
averaging 5.2 p.c. cobalt, worth
£3,200,000 at the current price
of £153 per ton.
The next step is to go under-
ground and determine the ton-
nage and grade of ore indicated.
To finance the work those on the
register at March 20 were offered
200,000 new ss. shares, payable
3s. application and allotment, by
April 17, and the balance as re-
quired. A further 20,000 f.-p.
ss. shares are tg be handed to the
vendor (Metals Exploration)
under terms of the original agree-
ment. Test-drilling of the Mt.
Isa claim has also begun. For
the 35.-paid contribs. sellers
recently asked ss. 9d. The rights
sold around 2s. Bd.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Although it was a very busy time,
there was nobody to be found last week
(except mothers of large families) match-
ing the pace set by Lord and Lady
Louis -Mountbatten, who ftew-in for a
two-day visit on the Monday and really
filled the unforgiving minute with 60
seconds’ worth of distance run. They
attended receptions, visited hospitals,
addressed meetings, and gave a general
demonstration of charm, energy, vitality
and split-second punctuality. Lady
Mountbatten, who has a flair for unpre-
tentious fashion, looked fresh and soignee
throughout the day, a change of white
gloves and a different hat sometimes
giving her as much “lift” as a complete
new costume would give another.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. A. M. Berry was the speaker at the
annual conference of the Country
Women’s Association, which was opened
at the Town Hall on Tuesday, April 10,
and continued at the Assembly Hall for
the rest of the week. Mrs. Berry, who
is world-president of Country Women,
spoke on the subject of “The Power of
Women,” and drew examples tQ illustrate
her points from some of the 27 countries
she visited on her recent tour. Mrs.
W. H. Cullen presided at the meeting,
which was opened by the Governor, Sir
John Northcott; and Mr. Charles Lloyd
Jones, representing his father, Sir Charles
Lloyd Jones (who is ill), presented the
Cup for the greatest amount of money
raised per head to the branch at Baldry.
Mrs. Owen, who received the Cup on
behalf of the branch, got a round of
applause when she said that Baldry,
which raised £76, was “not a township
at all, just a signpost by the side of the
road.’.’
* ☆ £r
The Mater Misericordiae Hospital Ball,
always a bright affair, took on some extra
brilliance this year, as it was celebrating
the 50th birthday of the hospital, and
there was a general air of jubilee. Held
on Friday last at the Empress Ballroom,
it was attended by the Apostolic Dele-
gate, Archbishop Carboni, as guest-of-
honor ; the Hon. H. E. Holt, M.P., and
Mrs. Holt; Minister for Health W. F.
Sheahan and Mrs. Sheahan ; Mr. Justice
McClemans; Mr. Ivan Black, M.L.A.,
and Mrs. Black; Mr. and Mrs. H.
Tancred ; Mr. and Mrs. Cecil O’Dea, and
Dr. and Mrs. F. Hales Wilson. Dr.* and
Mrs. J. M. L’Estrange welcomed the
official guests, Mrs. L’Estrange wearing
a dress of pale-blue brocade.
# # »
Ex-students of Monte Sant’Angelo
looked charming when, in their many
colored dresses, mostly ballerinas, they
fluttered from the Australia’s Rainbow
Room on the ground-floor to its Sapphire
Room upstairs at the annual dance in
aid of the college funds last Wednesday.
The 15 debs, who were presented to the
Apostolic Delegate, Archbishop Carboni,
by matron-of-honor Dr. Gwen Fitz-
patrick, had earlier in the evening visited
their old school with their partners and
danced their debutante’s waltz for the
nuns there. President Therese Stormon
wore daffodil nylon-net edged with gold,
and was assisted in entertaining the large
official party by Mary Leonard and
Angela Pile.
* ☆ ☆
Nearly 100 visitors, all interested in
health and social-services, made a tour
of the Rehabilitation Centre at the Prince
of Wales Hospital, Randwick, when it
was officially opened last week. Sir
Norman Paul, president of the board of
Sydney Hospital (to which the centre is'
an annexe), spoke the opening words,
and Dr. R. F. Kaye-Webster explained
the work that is being done to help
patients cope with ordinary life as soon
as they leave hospital. Among those
who inspected the centre were Judge
H. T. E. Holt, Dr. D. Pettinger, Dr.
Lynden Wing and Dr. Naomi Wing.
# # #
The Governor-General, Sir William
Slim, who is patron of the Gilbert and
Sullivan Society, will be present with
Lady Slim at the first night of the society’s
production of “The Sorcerer” next week.
Gregory Stroud, who is the producer,
played Sir Marmaduke in the 1940
season of this opera at the Royal, the
only other production during this century
being in 1905. Proceeds of the season (at
the Conservatorium from April 26 to 28)
will ga to the Royal Hospital for
Children, where the society has main-
tained a cot since 1928.
Paula Ehrlich, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. Ehrlich, of Marrickville, chose for
her wedding on Saturday to Dr. Neville
Yeomans a dress of white delustred satin
with Bourbon lace, and was attended by
matron-of-honor Mrs. Allan Yeomans
and bridesmaid Margaret Morrison in
white organza sprinkled with buttercup-
flowers and sashed in buttercup. The
marriage took place at the home of the
bridegroom’s parents, Nevallan, North
Richmond, where a reception for 120
people was held afterwards. Photo by
David Franklin.
From Walcha (N.S.W.) comes news
of what must have been one of the
prettiest weddings of the season, that of
Betty Youdale, eldest daughter of Mr.
Alan Youdale (Yarrawitch, Walcha) and
John Bridge, who is the only son of
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Bridge, of
Bellevue Hill. The bride’s dress was of
palest blue brocade beaded with seed-
pearls, her veil pale-blue and her bouquet
a soft pink. The bridesmaids were in
blue sculptured-nylon ballerinas, and St.
Paul’s Church was lavishly decorated with
bows of pale-blue tulle, pink stock,
sweet-peas and red rambler roses. The
bride’s attendants were Mrs. Clive
Gibson, Margaret Phillips and five-year-
old Margaret Green. A nice little touch
was that the Country Women’s Associa-
tion catered for the reception for 80.
* ☆ ☆
April 9 was World Health Day. It
was celebrated in Sydney by a luncheon
at which Health Minister W. F. Sheahan
spoke and Dr. F. Crawford presided.
Present were Matron Leslie Campbell,
Mrs. M. Metcalfe, Mr. Hugh Williams
and representatives of most of Sydney’s
social organisations. After lunch a strik-
ing film, “The Rival World,” showed the
audience both the wonders and the
dangers of the insect-world.
# # &
“Guys and Dolls,” otherwise the
younger-set working for the Crippled
Children’s Society, greeted the 400 or so
guests to their ball at the Empress Ball-
room on Wednesday. Among the draw-
cards were the Goldwyn Girls—five
beauteous Americans, tall and glamor-
ously dressed, who are here to
advertise the film “Guys and Dolls.”
Michael Brockdorff, president of the
younger-set, welcomed the guests with
Mrs. Brockdorff, and included in the
official party were Mr. and Mrs. K. F.
Coles and Mr. and Mrs. N. B. Freeman.
% # Xh
Committee news includes the first
annual meeting of the women’s auxiliary
,for the Dr. Bamardo Homes, at which
the president, Mrs. Rupert Scammell,
presented a cheque for £l5OO to Mr.
Charles Witt for the homes. This is the
second cheque to be presented during the
year, the total reward for the year’s work
being £3BOO, for which the expenses were
only £BO.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Elizabethan Ball (coming up on
September 12) has co-opted to its com-
mittee six glamorous young lasses who
propose to hold a number of small parties
to help the expenses of the ball ilong.
They are Pam Miller, Judy Vicars, Pam
Macarthur-Onslow, Mrs. Lloyd Martin,
Sally Bragg and Wendy Lloyd-Jones.
The decor of the ball promises to be
something really dramatic, the committee
working on it being artists Erik Langker,
Charles McKervey, Elaine Haxton,
Maurice O’Sullivan and Bill Constable.
* ☆ ☆
A delightful painting of a scene on the
Clarence River has been donated to the
International Ball by artist Mrs. Florence
Broadhurst; it will be the prize for the
lucky-number fans which will be sold as
favors. August 2is the date of the ball.
MELBOURNE
Chevron was en fete for the cabaret
dinner-dance at which the Governor
formally opened the Royal Women’s Hos-
pital Appeal for the Centenary Building
‘Fund. In front of the official-table was
a scale-model of the proposed new hos-
pital. Sir Dallas and Lady Brooks were
met by hospital-president Mrs. Lytton
Stephens and appeal-chairman Cr. W. J.
Brens.
Lady Brooks chose a gown of ice-blue
satin, which had an Empire-bodice with
an off-the-shoulder neckline and wide,
graceful skirt. Pearls and diamente en-
crusted the bodice, and she wore a
diamond-tiara. Of palest-grey Chantilly-
lace over mauve satin was the gown
chosen by Mrs. Lytton Stephens. The
waist was swathed in chiffon, shaded from
palest pink to deep mauve, and violets
were pinned in front of the bodice. In
the official party were the Lady Mayoress,
Lady Selleck (whose gown of mist-blue
tulle was highlighted at the waist with
mushroom-pink satin, tied at the side in
a large bow) ; the wife of the Premier,
Mrs. Henry Bolte (who wore a gown of
pale-pink satin with the bodice trimmed
with rhinestones); and the Governor’s
daughter, Mrs. Robin Byrne (attractive in
primrose-yellow, organza patterned in a
design of autumn flowers, the hem of
the bouffant skirt frilled).
Among the guests were Mrs. Oswald
Bowden (president of the hospital’s
auxiliaries), Mrs, A. E. Prytz, Mrs.
Wilfred Black, Mr. and Mrs. Stanley
Korman, Dr. and Mrs. Desmond Holly-
wood, Sir Albert and Lady Coates, Mr.
and Mrs. W. S. Cox (she is a former
president of the hospital), Mrs. E. Corn-
foot (a past-president); Mr. and Mrs.
John Buckland, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas
Bowden, Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Coles and
Gillian Pain.
Ronnie Goodlet. who was Miss
Victoria, is on her way to England, there
to continue her career as mannequin and
model —when in Australia the Queens
milliner was one of her patrons. Ronnie
is a tall brunette with exquisite features
and a stunning figure who smiles easily.
Born in Perth, she is a daughter and niece
of Anzacs. Her father, now a Melbourne
builder, and his younger brother enlisted
when boys in the brave days of 1914, and
with the grand Westralian infantry were
in nearly everything, from the Gallipoli
landing to the cease-fire.
At the end of this month a popular
couple—Commander John Bell, R.A.N.,
and his wife, with their children, Christo-
pher and Virginia—leave this city to make
their home in Sydney. Commander Bell
will be stationed at Garden Island Naval
Dock. First farewell-party in their honor
was given by Mr. and Mrs. James
McGauran. Commander and Mrs. G.
Hood will give a cocktail-party on April
26, and the following day Captain and
Mrs. G. McD. Wilson will give a dinner-
party. Also sharing the honors with
Commander and Mrs. Bell will be Capt.
and Mrs. A. Good, who will shortly leave
for England. Final party in the round
of farewells will be that to be given by
Commander and Mrs. I. B. Johns in their
Burwood home.
* ☆ *
When Judith Ann, eldest daughter of'
■Dr. and Mrs. Lindsay Brittingham, was
married at Melbourne Grammar Chapel
to Colin Lathrop, eldest son of Dr. and
Mrs. Hugh Lathrop Murray, of
Kingston, Tasmania, she wore a trained
gown of white nylon-tulle, the brocade
bodice of which was scalloped on to the
bouffant skirt. The V-neckline was
edged with tulle. A pearl coronet held
her fingertip veil. Bridesmaids were her
sister Barbara, the ’groom’s sister Rose-
mary and Jacqueline Renton. Their
white pure-silk organza frocks were
edged with daisies, and they wore white
flower-wreaths in their hair. Neil
Murray was best man and Hubert Miller
groomsman. Reception was held at the
New Alexandra.
☆ ☆ *
Mrs. R. S. Wellby, wife of Rear-
Admiral Wellby (new chief of the U.K.
Liaison Staff), arrived in the Iberia with
her two schoolboy sons Mark and Peter
—third son, 16-year-old Michael, stayed
on at Pangborn Nautical College, but
will visit the family next" summer. Fair-
haired, petite, vivacious, Mrs. Wellby is
no stranger to travel. Daughter of a
former Consul-General in Alexandria,
she was born in Turkey and spent nearly
all her formative years in the Middle
East. Since her marriage she has
alternated between Malta and her home
in Hertfordshire, with, latterly, a visit to
South Africa. Mrs. Wellby’s favorite
recreations are tennis and dancing, and,
in the winter, skiing.
☆ ☆ *
Another arrival in the Iberia was that
grand veteran of the Australian stage
Carrie Moore, returning from a two-year
jaunt in the U.S. and England. The
original “Merry Widow” in Australia,
star of a host of Gilsullivan operas for
the Firm and principal-boy in many a
panto., Carrie, while in London, “did”
all the theatres and took the keenest
interest in television-production. Her
sister Lily-still steps the boards blithely—
she was in the recent production of
“Separate Tables” with Ralph Richard-
son.
V V
Women growers had a full representa-
tion at the autumn rose-show held by
the National Rose Society of Victoria at
(he Town Hall last week. Miss Morgan
St. John, star of the “Kismet” company,
opened the show and was presented with
a beautiful sheath of golden-yellow roses.
Though the best-rose award was
notched by a man —and a real beauty
was this pink-flushed yellow Madame A.
Meilland exhibited by Mr. L. V. Lawrence
—Mrs. G. Williams, of Euroa, won the
country championship for the eighth suc-
cessive year, which must surely be a
record. Award for the best floral-art
exhibit went to Mrs. R. A. Worth, of
Box Hill, for her fan-arrangement of
creamy-yellow roses against a background
of white gladioli. She also won first prize
for rose-hips arrangement, using a small
wrought-silver bowl mounted on a black
base.
Mrs. J. Semmens won two seconds:
one for an imaginative arrangement in
which she dressed tiny figures in rose-
leaves and topped them with hats of
rosebuds, the other in the original-
setting section. First prize in this section
went to Mrs. E. Henty, of Balwyn, for
a tasteful arrangement of two shell-pink
roses floating on maidenhair-fern in a
flat bowl.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Ray Joseph, who with her hus-
band recently returned from an overseas
trip, was guest-of-honor at a luncheon
given by Mrs. C. Jensen. A tall flower-
arrangement of late-spring blooms was
set on the mantel of the Maple Room
of the Australia; and flowers adorned
the large centrepiece on the luncheon-
table* The hostess wore a pencil-slim
black frock and a high-crowned pillbox
of silver-grey and ice-blue satin. The
guest-of-honor chose a frock of black
angora and a modified-mushroom hat of
deep-cerise moufflon.
Among the guests were Mrs. Joseph’s
sister, Mrs. T. W. Corrigan (in grey-and-
white-patterned silk frock and white silk-
straw picture-hat), Mrs. Royden Honey-
man (who topped her charcoal-grey wild-
silk frock with a jade-green straw picture-
hat trimmed with a ruffle of black tulle),
and Mrs. F. Norris.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for... .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—■
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign •••• £2/10/- \
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 96S Wellington, N.Z.)
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
t Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing, Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
. „ Vardon Price Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Anst.)
Missing Friend
GORDON HENRY PRESTON, son of
REUBEN BELL PRESTON, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED), 33/39 Hunter
Street, Sydney. (Reference J.S.).
Legal Notice
IN THE COURT OF BANKRUPTCY
District of Western Australia.
TO DOROTHY MATHER late of 289
Egan Street Kalgoorlie. TAKE NOTICE
that a Bankruptcy Petition was presented
against you on the 19th day of December
1955 The name of the Petitioning
Creditor is PLAISTOWE & COMPANY
LIMITED The registered office of the
petitioning creditor is situate at 155
Havelock Street West Perth The amount
of the petitioning creditor’s debt is
£95/4/11 By an order dated the 6th
day of March 1956 the Court ordered that
publication of this notice should be
deemed to be good and sufficient service
on you of the Petition The date fixed for
the hearing of the Petition is the 22nd
day of May, 1956, at 10.30 a.m. If you
do not appear the Court may make a
sequestration order against you in your
absence. The relevant documents may
be inspected at this Registry. DATED
this 27th day of March, 1956. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. TNMACIt & UN-
MACK, of 12 Howard Street, Perth, Soli-
citor for the Petitioning Creditor.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND GEORGE INNES.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET ANN INNES
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 575
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney, by the 29th day of June 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. G. SAYEGH, Solicitor,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELWYN DENIS POWELL formerly
of 54 Malson Crescent Miranda in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that DAISY POWELL has fiied
a Petition for Divorce No. 507 of 1955
on the grounds of your habitual drunken-
ness and habitual cruelty towards her
for three years and upwards and habitually
leaving her without means of support and
that during one year previous to the 4th
January 1955 you repeatedly assaulted
and cruelly 'beat her. If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 22nd June 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. HILLIARD &
BERRY, Solicitors, 17 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
fmt&ij’d..,.
The connoisseur's word
for smooth, mellow
perfection
m
m
■-Jfrn,
2P spwL
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
BRANDY
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEARS
TST.47.M
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Day Before Tomorrow”
“The Day Before Tomorrow,”
presented by Canberra Rep., is
by Ric Throssell, one of the
society’s members. A very good
play indeed, it’s about the “sur-
vivors” from the next war ; Mr.
Throssell’s imagination and
dramatic talent combining to pro-
duce a moving and convincing
tragedy.
True, the general conception
is more impressive than some of
the details of execution. The
social situation is conveyed in
terms of the plight of one
family, the Jacksons, and their
own degradation is in fact
enough to put over the point of
the play—enough for the audi-
ence to bite on. That is why it
seemed that two other themes,
introduced by Rawlings, a
demented neighbor, and Captain
Field, the brutal soldier in charge
of relief, were superfluous and
distracting, even though the two
roles were admirably acted by
Jeremy Becket and Rodney
Smith.
This is a play which should be
seen elsewhere. In Canberra it
had the advantage of Anne
Godfrey-Smith’s direction and a
fine set by Barbara Shanahan.
The author took the principal
role, and his supporting cast was
most co-operative. Lauraine
Hicks, as his daughter, and Pat
Hutchinson, as his wife, deserve
special mention.
F. M. T.
Stage and Music
Moiseiwitsch
Judging by his three concerts
at Melbourne Town Hall, Benno
Moiseiwitsch has maintained his
interest in the piano unimpaired
since he won the Rubenstein
Prize at nine years old.
Chopin remains his first love,
as was demonstrated at his second
concert. Although he played a
jolly little thing by Prokopeff
with superb ease, Schubert’s
Impromptu in A Flat with
brilliance and Schumann’s Etudes
with a sober concentration, the
almost-packed house was rela-
tively unresponsive. But when
he reached his Chopin panel,
and the first phrases came purring
from the piano, the audience
was agog with interest and
remained excited through all the
various moods of tenderness,
melancholy and passion of the
Polish composer.
Points from the pianist’s
Sydney season:
The mixture of tenderness and
muscle which made the C Major
Fantasy the finest of any major
Schumann- work heard here for
years; the unrelenting drive
though the broken chords of the
same composer’s “Toccata” ; the
dominance of the aesthetic over
the purely technical aspects of
the 12 Chopin Studies selected
from Op. 10 and 25, and the
beautiful shaping of nuances and
moods in the 24 Preludes.
Also the surge and sway of
Prokofieff’s Third Sonata; the
shimmering aquatic effects con-
jured up with such clarity in
Ravel’s “Jeux d’Eau” ; the im-
perturbability with which the
pianist swept through the diffi-
culties of Liszt’s transcription of
the Overture to “Tannhauser” ;
the wonderful sonorities built-up
in the left hand in the First,
Second and Fourth Ballades and
the Second Scherzo of Chopin—
all confirming that Moiseiwitsch
is still one of the few great
pianists whose art is enriched
by mellowness, wisdom and
culture.
* ❖ *
Borovansky in Brisbane
The Borovanskys opened their
Brisbane season with a hard-
centred confection —“Les Sylph-
ides,” “Les Presages” (to the
Tschaikowsky Fifth Symphony)
and “Graduation Ball.”
As often happens with choco-
lates, the coating proved more
palatable than the centre. The
Chopin music can invest even
competent dancing with a lyrical
quality, and “Graduation Ball”
contains just the right type of
clowning for the silent medium
of the dance. But this “Les
Presages” does not hold together.
Perhaps ballet is better when it
confines itself to the fairy-tale
world of Swans, Wilis and Sylphs
than when it gives habitation to
the names Fate, Destiny, Evil,
etc. Once the metaphysical
aspect was overlooked, it was
possible to enjoy the serenely
beautiful and romantic dancing
of Kathleen Gorham and Royes
Fernandez, although the male
section of the corps de ballet gave
nowhere near adequate support.
In the final presentation the
excellent comedy of Paul
Grinwis and John Auld sparkled
on the crest of a wave of
admirable teamwork. This sense
of joy Borovansky has been able
to create year after year. The
present commentator was not
surprised to hear many Aus-
tralians overseas remarking on
the “unsmiling” quality of several
star-studded companies in
London. The Sadler’s Wells
“Boutique Fantasque,” for
example, badly needed the
Borovansky touch to cheer it up.
V.V.
“The Bishop’s Wife”
No doubt anything might
happen when the Bishop’s lovely
wife and the Major decide to tell
the Bishop what’s been going-on
and that they intend going-off
together. In “The Bishop’s Wife,”
a one-acter by Warwick Fairfax
—produced by Geoffrey Thomas
at his Sydney Theatre for Play-
wrights—the Bishop looks like
resigning his faith and precipi-
tating a minbr political crisis
while his wife and the Major go
off to their fun-and-games.
A church scandal and. the
political crisis are averted mainly
by a verbose politician, who
seems to talk everyone into such
a state of inertia that the prob-
lem is solved by the \yife staying
with the Bishop, but keeping the
Major around for the lighter
things of life—the Professor of
Moral Philosophy, who also
woofs around the background
of the argument, notes in effect
at the conclusion: “You can
always get .anything you want
in this house.”
That, from the point of view
of entertainment, is hardly a
solution at all to the problems
posed, although possibly Mr.
Fairfax doesn’t presume to solve
them. If he doesn’t, however, he
might have been a little more
merciful with the torrent of
words with which he propounds
them. Oue should not argue on
the stage for the sake of argu-
ment ; only for the sake of enter-
tainment —the theatre isn’t a
pulpit.
Apart from his own wordiness,
Mr. Fairfax was ill-served by
his small cast, with the excep-
tion of Owen Weingott, whose
Bishop was spoken and put
together with a good deal of
skill and imagination. One felt
he really had a problem.
On the other hand, Evon
Gregory, as his wife, was singu-
larly unconvincing about her
problems, and Peter Barclay, as
the Major, gave the impression
that he didn’t want a bar of any
of it. As John Clinton, M.P.,
Roger McDo*u g a 11 strove
valiantly to simulate political
maturity, but it seemed that a
municipal alderman would have
cut him to pieces.
£► £« £4
“Mr. and Mrs.”
William Orr’s latest revue at the
Phillip-street Theatre presents
four husbands and their four
wives in exuberant spirits with
such items as “Whaco Monaco”
and “Beer House of the 17th
Doll.”
The four coup’les are Johnny
O’Connor and Nola Lester, Carl
Carlisle and Maisie Weldon, Bill
and Faye Donaldson, and Barry
and Brenda Humphries, and,
where they have the right
material, they have no trouble
in making things fizz.
In several of the acts, however,
it seems that the script-writers
need to fizz a little more —even
the fast and expert shaking the
performers gave some of the
numbers couldn’t raise a bubble.
Mr. Orr’s production is, as
usual, swift* good-looking and
straight to every point.
£4 £4 £4
“Murder Mistaken”
Janet Green’s “M urd e r
Mistaken,” current offering at
Sydney’s Metropolitan Theatre,
is a crisp little tension-piece
about a young man whp, having
half-killed a schoolmate for six-
pence and later murdered his
aunt for £7O, marries a wealthy
widow with similar intentions.
He is putting these into practice
when the play opens, and the
doings thereafter concern his
marriage to a second w.w. and
his eventual undoing by—sorry,
the rest is for paying customers.
Under the brisk and sensible
direction of Lesley Lindsay a
cast of half-a-dozen- give the
piece a very competent and enter-
taining performance. Don Pascoe
lets just enough nerves and sly
cunning seep through the brash
confidence of the young fellow,
and if his slick switch of accents
to show his Cockney underwear
seems a little like some of Cary
Grant’s mannerisms that is all
to the good.
The others —Nance Foxley, as
Emmie the servant, Joan Win-
chester, as the first wife, Joan
Storey, as the hard-headed
second, Lesley Lindsay, as the
third woman, and Olaf Christian-
sen, as the lawyer mooching sus-
piciously in the
are all good ; if they occasionally
make some of the subtler points
as though they are driving two-
inch nails they at least drive them
in good, workmanlike fashion.
Artbursts
The Independents
Although there is little
evidence of independence
almost every school shows its
influence in their painting —there
is some nice work in the exhibi-
tion by the Independent Group
of Artists at the Athenaeum
Gallery, Melbourne.
Laurence White’s sketch, “On
the Derwent,” is attractive, and
Desmond Norman’s “Seascape,”
bought by the National Gallery,
looks windy. Max Middleton
gives “Olive Terraces, Majorca”
and “Ancient Olives” the charac-
ter of Cinema Scope as regards
color, while Charles Bush has
been seeing red in Queensland
—“Townsville Side Street,” “The
Trochus Baggers,” “Towards
Castle Hill, Townsville” and “In
Charters Towers” are all suffused
with the same slightly-off-red
glow.
Mr. Bush, however, applies his
pigment with much more reti-
cence than Lina Bryans, who,
in “Wattle Landscape” and
“Goulburn River,” appears to
have slapped hers on. The pic-
tures of both artists would glow
more if the colors weren’t so
unrelated.
Madge Freeman continues to
paint French landscape quietly.
Talkies
“The Court Jester” (Sydney
Prince Edward): Uproarious
medieval doings in which Danny
Kaye, to help oust a usurping
monarch and put the rightful
infant-heir on the throne, im-
personates an Italian court-jester.
The high-speed fun, with the
comedian at the top of his form,
is crowned by a duel in which
Danny has been hypnotised into
believing he is a brilliant swords-
man, and is left floundering
when an accidental finger-snap
untrances him. Handsomely set
and dressed, the film is one of
Kaye’s best.


Because of the Rugilla
BY MENA ABDULLAH AND RAY MATHEW
THE whole day—the trip to
town, the nigger word, the
singing kettle—was be-
cause of the ruzilla. It had
flown away.
It was a small bird and of no
use to the farm, but it was Lai’s
and its loss was a tragic thing.
It was Rashida who found it,
though ; Rashida and I. It was
in the grass by the creek, shining
red-and-green and fluttering to
get out of the long creek-grass.
I saw it first and I pointed to it.
But Rashida stalked it and
caught it. Then we carried it
back to Father.
That’s to say, Rashida carried
it. I wanted to and I had the
right because I saw it first, but
Rashida didn’t offer it and I
couldn’t ask her. She was older
than I was, and she had the right
to decide. And besides, even
though we were children on the
banks of the Gwydir, we were
still Punjabis and Punjabis do not
beg. Even a little child like Lai
knew that. And so did I.
Rashida carried it.
Father looked at the bird.
“Young and weak,” he said.
“Young and weak. It will mostly
die.”
“Yes,” said Rashida in a proud
voice, holding herself up to look
at life as a Punjabi should, “it
will die.”
She gave the bird to me then
and I took it gladly. I held it
tightly; too tightly, probably.
Its wings flapped at my hands
and I could feel, under the wings
and the feathers, a wild beating
like the noise you hear at night
when your ear is on the pillow,
and I knew it was the bird’s heart
beating.
So I held it more gently than
before, in a cage of fingers.
“What bird?” I said. “What
sort of bird? Wliat name?”
Father looked at me and
frowned. I was always asking
names, more names than there
were words for. I was the
dreamy one, the one he called
the Australian. “Ruzilla,” he
said at last. “It is a bird called
ruzilla.”
“Ruzilla,” I said. “Ruzilla.”
It was a good name and I was
satisfied.
I took it home and showed it
to Lai, who was only four. “I
have a ruzilla,” I said. “It is
a very strange bird, young and
weak, and it will mostly die but
you can help me feed it. Get
grass-seeds and blackberries.
Grass-seeds like these.”
He pottered away gravely
while I put the bird in a chicken-
coop that had been left by some
accident in the garden. And
from that day Lai and I hunted
the garden, gathering and sorting,
to feed the ruzilla.
HTHE garden was a strange
place and lovely. It was
Mother’s place, Ama’s own
place. Outside its lattice walls
was the farmyard with its fowls
and goats (Sulieman, the rooster,
and Yasmin, the nanny), and
beyond that was Father’s place
(the wool-sheds and the yards),
and beyond that the hills with
their changing faces and their
Australianness. We had never
been to them, and Ama that
was our word for Mother:
“ama” means love—Ama told us
they were very strange.
But everything was strange to
Ama, except the garden. Inside
its lattice walls grew the country
that she knew. There were
tuberose and jasmine, white
violets and the pink Kashmiri-
roses whose buds grew clenched,
like baby hands. The garden
was cool and sweet and full of
rich scent. Even the kitchen-
smell of curry and of ghee was
lost and had no meaning in that
place.
There was a peacock, too, a
squawking sulk of a bird called
Shah-Jehan, that a lascar gave to
Ama in return for a curry and
a kind word. And other birds
came there, free birds of their
own will, the magpie day and
night to wake us at morning and
to bed us at dark ; and a shining
black bird that Indians call
kokila and Australians call koel.
But these were singing birds that
came and went, came and went.
For the ruziJla, the garden was
a cage.
It was a cage for Lai, too.
He was gentle and small; the
only son, because another, an
elder one, had merely opened his
eyes to die. Ama and my father,
they were afraid for Lai; they
kept him in the garden. Rashida
and I could run mad by the
creek, bare feet and screaming
voices, but Lai could not go out
without a grown-up. He had to
live in the garden with the baby
Jamila, who was only six months
and who spent all her day suck-
ing her fist and watching the
rose-leaves move on the sky or
in sleeping and sleeping. She was
not much good for a boy to play
with, even a delicate boy of four.
To Lai the ruzilla was a
friend, from Heaven.
And it was entirely his. As
soon as-it was well I lost interest
in it and grew sick of the garden.
I told him he could have it, that
it was no use anyway, and that
it would never do anything but
walk round in its cage and make
whistling noises. Lai didn’t care.
He loved it and watched it for
hours.
'AND then one morning, just
like any other morning, we
woke up and it was gone. The
door of the cage was open and
Salome the cat had disappeared.
The magpies went on singing as
on any other morning and Lai
shook his fist at them as he’d
seen Father shake his fist at the
sun. And he cried.
How he cried! Tears down his
face, and no sound. And all the
time he ran round the garden,
now quick, now slow, looking,
looking. He didn’t even speak.
“Ama,” said Rashida, “let Lai
come to the swamp with us.”
“We’ll show him the ducks,”
I said. “Baby ones, Lai. Learn-
ing to swim.”
But it was no good. Ama told
Father it was no good and
Father, smiling a little, nursed Lai
for a long time. But the tears
were still there and all afternoon
Father went around the paddocks
with a net trying to find a ruzilla.
But the bird from Heaven had
gone and it seemed that there was
no other like it in the world. It
was just as Lai had said.
We children slept in the same
room, and that night Rashida and
I lay for a long time listening to
Lai, waiting for him to cry him-
self to sleep. But it was no good.
We climbed out of the
big bed and went over
to him. “Lal-baba,” said
Rashida, “don’t cry.”
“Don’t cry,” she said
again; and I saw that
there were tears on her
cheek and I began to
sniffle and to feel my
eyes filling.
“Don’t cry, don’t cry,
don’t cry,” I said. And
then I was crying, very
loudly, and Rashida,
with tears on her face,
was disgusted with me ;
and Ama, as she always
was when we needed
her, was suddenly there
with a lamp. She picked
up. Lai and held him
like a very little baby.
“What noise,” she
said. “Go to bed.”
And when she had seen us
safely ip, she sat on a chair with
Lai and talked to him in her
soft Indian voice, so soft that
the words were hardly words
they seemed so true. And yet we
heard them. “My son,” she said.
“My son, no tears. Allah makes
birds to fly. No tears. It is cruel,
it is cruel to stay in a cage when
you have the wings and the heart
to fly. No tears. You cannot
hold a bird. You cannot hold
things, anything, my son.”
Lai. leant against her. I could
tell that his face was hot from
crying by the way that Ama
rubbed her cheek on him. Her
face was creased and tired, but
suddenly she smiled and looked
beautiful.
“Tomorrow,” she said, “Seyed
can take you in the wagon and
you can see the town.”
“Me, too, Ama? Me, too?”
Rashida and I jumped up in
bed. None of us had ever been
to town. Lai stopped crying.
“Yes, sleepers,” said Ama.
“All of you.”
And she took Lai in her arms
into her own room while Rashida
and I whispered excitedly about
Uncle Seyed, the ruzilla, and
the town.
TTNCLE SEYED came the next
day with the wagon. It was
always used on town-days, but it
was very old. It belonged to the
time when Father first came to
Australia. He had nothing but
the clothes he wore and the
Koran tied in a red handkerchief
which he used for a prayer-mat.
With the money from his first
jobs he bought the wagon.
Faded, but still proud, the letters
on the side said: “Muhummad
Din —Licensed Hawker .”
We’d been in it lots of times
but never to go to town, never
to go to town. We hopped about
in the back like birds while Seyed
worried about us falling out and
eventually tried talking to us in
an effort to keep us still.
“Good land, that,” he said.
He always spoke to us in Eng-
lish, his sort of English. “Long
time ago I want your father to
buy it, but no. He want go back
home, get marry. I tell him he
too young get marry, but no.”
Seyed shook his head and
Rashida laughed. She knew that
Father was 40 when he married.
Seyed shook his head again.
“Always your father wanting to
get marry.”
“When will you get married,
Uncle Seyed?” asked Rashida.
“Plenty time yet,” said Seyed,
who was in his fifties. "Plenty
time yet.”
“I will marry you,” I said. And
then I thought a bit. “Soon,” I
added, and Rashida laughed.
And so the talking, the good
time, went while the sun got big
and the paddocks got small and
the houses came closer to one
another. By the time we drove
into the town we had no words
to say.
Seyed stopped the wagon in
the grass at the side of the road
and lifted us down. “Better you
wait in shade,” he said. “No run
on road. Back in few' minutes.”
He shook a warning finger and
left us.
It was only a small town and
we looked at it, looked hard.
“What’s that?” I said, pointing
to a high, high, brick building.
“Only a Jesus-house,” said
Rashida knowledgeably, but she
looked at it as curiously as Lai
and L
“Look!” said Lai suddenly.
“Ruzilla.”
We looked. It was a stone
rooster near a stone man on the
side of the building. It seemed
very wonderful to us and we
stood staring at it while Lai
crowed quietly about ruzilla, the
bird from Heaven, and h.ow it
lived on a house.
It was because of the ruzilla
and the stone man that we saw
no one approaching. Suddenly
they were there, white children:
a big boy, a middle-sized girl and
a little boy. We stared at them.
They stared at us.
“What y’ wearin’ y’r pyjamas
in the street for?” said the big
boy.
“What y’ wearin’ y’r pyjamas
in the street for?” said the girl.
WE stared at them and I kept
saying the question over in
my head like a song. I didn’t
know what it meant, except that


m
hl^CA]
DISPENSER
It costs no more to buy Blue Gillette Blades
in a dispenser! Factory-sharp blades, that
give you the best shave you've ever had,
are unwrapped ready to slip from dispenser
to razor instantly, and there's a place for
used blades, too! You can use the dispenser
with any razor, but for superspeed shaving,
use with the Gillette quick-action razor.
Superspeed Sets cost from as little as 10/6.
- d
42s
AND...a place for used blades
Gillette
10-BLADE PACKET, 4/4
5-BLADE PACKET, 2/2
CIS7A
it meant our clothes. We were
all dressed alike in the sulwa-
kameez, a sort of loose tunic and
baggy cotton trousers caught-in
at the ankles, serviceable, cheap
to buy and easy to make. It was
easy to wash. too. And Ama
had washed them as white as
anything. Why were they point-
ing, and singing, and saying such
sharp pointy words?
“Nigger,” sang the big boy.
“Nigger, nigger, pull the trigger.”
“Nigger, nigger, pull the
trigger,” said the others. They
were all saying it, singing it, like
a game.
“Game! ” said Lai. He ran
forward. He lived in a world of
women, an only son, and here
were boys. He ran to meet them
The big boy caught him round
the waist and gave him a throw
that sent him backwards to the
ground. I saw him there, and
looked at him sitting up sur-
prised, and felt my legs shaking
and my eyes sore.
“Sur ka bucha !” said Rashida.
“Sur ka bucha!” she screamed
and flung herself at the boy, her
clenched fists banging at him. I
was horrified because that means
“son-of-a-pig,” and it was a
terrible phrase to us, but I
followed her crying, ‘‘Sur ! Sur!”
And, jumping at the girl, I
grabbed two handfuls of hair.
We were all there fighting—
thumping and kicking and
scratching, with Lai sitting
amazed on the ground—when
Seyed came back.
“Ai! Ai!” he cried as he
turned the corner and broke into
a run.
At the sound of his voice and
the sight of his turban, the fight-
ing stopped and the strangers
ran away. Rashida stood looking
after them, still shaking with
anger and strength, but I looked
towards Seyed wanting him to
come to us.
He asked us what had hap-
pened' and I held up a fist that
had some blonde hair in it and
started to cry. And, of course,
that set Lai off; he couldn’t let
any of us cry alone. Seyed was
distraught, but tried hard to be
calm. He picked Lai up and
dusted him. He retied the ribbon
in my hair—a clumsy bow, but
I loved him for it. And he told
Rashida, who was being too
proud to cry, to wipe hjgr nose.
“Wipe good,” he said.
“Take us home,” commanded
Rashida. “Take us home now.”
“Business at bank. No go
home yet.”
Even as he said it he must
have seen that Rashida would
begin to cry too, so he hurried
us back into the wagon and drove
us down the street. We none
of us looked out. We crouched
in the back.
“Where are we going?” I said,
but in a very little voice that
Seyed couldn’t Lear. Rashida
sat up and looked.
“We are not going home,” she
said, and her voice trembled. But
she stayed sitting up, looking
proud, and as I lay there crying
into Lai’s hair I thought that she
looked very like Father and
wondered if anyone would ever
think that about me.
CEYED took us to a cottage on
the other side of town
where a white lady lived. He
told us to stay with her and to
give her no trouble because she
was a friend, and that if we were
good he would come back and
take us home soon. Then he
went away, into the town, while
we stood stock-still in the garden
and looked at the ground.
“I don’t know your names,”
said the lady.
Rashida was the eldest. “I
am Rashida Bani. This is my
sister Nimmi Kushil. And this
is my brother—the only son —
Lai Muhummad. We come from
Simla Farm.”
“I know it,” said the lady. “I
knew it, and I knew your father
before you were thought-of.” We
stared at her with respect: she
must be very old. We could not
imagine a time when Father and
Ama had not thought of us, and
longed for us.
She took us into the house
and like a very wise woman
indeed went on with her work
and left us alone. We walked
around slowly, in sight of one
another, and looked at every-
thing. Then, we decided.
Rashida stood by the piano.
She struck a key. A miracle
happened. A note came loud
and clear. Then it died away
till no matter how carefully you
listened it was gone. Only you
knew that it would never go
because you hacfit in your mind
and in your heart.
She struck another one and,
after the note started, sang with
it. There were two notes then,
the same and different, but
again the piano-note faded away
into your mind.
Lai laughed and I stood listen-
ing and Rashida, sure of herself,
sat by the piano and began
picking at the keys. High notes,
some of them were, and some
were low, and she sang with all
of those she could. She was
always singing at home and she
knew all of Ama’s songs.
I sat on the floor near her and
turned over the pages of a maga-
zine I’d taken from a big pile
of papers. The pages shone and
the ink smelt beautifully. There
were big pictures, and I put my
head close to them to see them
and smell them and know them
properly.
Lai began talking to a black
cat that was sleeping under the
table. Thds talked happily for a
long time, but the cat woke up
and arched his back and stretched
himself and walked off into
another room. Lai went after
him.
Suddenly there was a whistling
noise and a shout from Lai. Such
a shout! Rashida and I jumped
up and ran after him. He was-in
the kitchen, standing in front of
the stove. On it was a kettle, a
kettle that sang. He pointed to
it. “Look,” he said. “Listen.”
We were astounded. We stood
wide-eyed as Lai. A kettle that
sang, sang high and shrill!
“Like a locust,” said Rashida.
“Like a bird.”
“Magic,” said I.
“Ruzilla,” said Lai.
The lady came in and took the
kettle off the stove. “It sings to
say that it is boiling,” she said.
“I saw Seyed coming up the
street, and put it on to make
some tea.”
So we all sat down to tea and
scones and chattered like rela-
tives. We loved the lady now, the
kind lady with the piano and the
papers, the cat and the kettle. We
told her about the farm and the
three kangaroos that Ama fed,
about the ruzilla and the garden
where Lai lived, about Jamila the
baby and the long time she was
asleep. We told her everything
and she listened and laughed and
smiled while Seyed drank cups of
black tea full of sugar. And
when Lai could get a word in,
he talked, too. He talked to
Seyed and told him, very gravely,
about the wonderful kettle that
sang like a bird.
Then we all went out to the
wagon. We stood for a moment
in the garden to say goodbye, and
the lady, picking a rose from
each bush, gave a strong red one
to Rashida and a dear pink one
to me. “For good girls,” she
said.
Then she looked at Lai and
shook her head. “I can’t give
flowers to a man.”
Lai’s face fell and we were all
afraid he would cry, but he just
looked sad and Seyed lifted him
into the wagon.
“Don’t go,” said the lady.
“Wait.” And she went inside.
We were all in the wagon ready
to go when she came out. She
was carrying the kettle. “This is
for you,” she said and held it
towards Lai. “I have two others
for myself.”
Lai took it, but Seyed was
frowning at him and he half-
held it out for her to take back.
Even Lai knew, that Punjabi men
do not accept gifts easily.
“Let him take it,” said the
lady. “A friend gives you what
is already your own.”
Seyed thought about it and
then smiled, a huge grin. “You
Punjabi lady,” he said.
So the kettle was Lai’s.
A LL the way home we held on
to our presents, even when
we fell asleep, as we all did. But
we woke up near home, not
because of any sound or any
difference, but only because of
the nearness of home. And we
climbed up on to the seat near
Seyed, who worried about us
falling off and prayed loudly
that we’d stay on until he got
us to our father.
The sun was going down as
we sighted home. It was the time
that Father called the Glory of
Allah, the day burning itself out.
The crows cawed and flapped
their way towards the trees.
There was a night-noise of
animals, drowsy and faint. There
was a smell —growing stronger
all the time —of .wood-smoke and
curry cooking. There was a white
gleam down near the cowbail
that was Father’s turban, and
there, in the doorway, with the
baby on her arm and a lamp in
her hand, was Ama.
“No . more,” said Seyed
Muhummad solemnly and un-
truthfully as he helped us down
from the wagon. “No more as
long as Allah lets me live will I
take these devils in town.”
We laughed at him, and we
held our roses up for Ama to
smell.
But Lai pushed between us.
“Look, Ama,” he said, holding
up his kettle, “Ruzilla.”


DON’T BUY
A NEW COOKER
until you’ve checked the extra value of AGA
A new Cooker is perhaps the most important
purchase you ever make for a home. You need to
be absolutely certain that the model you select will
prove the best investment. What makes AGA a
better investment? This. The AGA is the ultimate
in cooking appliances—it costs less to own than
any other—in time it will pay for itself in fuel
savings.
If you can’t see AGA demonstrated, fill in the
coupon below and we’ll post you a booklet giving
you all the facts.
HERE ARE JUST A FEW REASONS
WHY AGA OFFERS BETTER VALUE:—)
®lt’s the world’s most economical cooker—it
cannot burn more than the guaranteed small
amount of fuel.
©You can cook for 2 or 10 at the same low cost.
«T"
a
=-==!2Sa!sS!|tißiii
Sttsiwiitii
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
51-57 GOULBURN ST., SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
113 GRENFELL ST., ADELAIDE
CNR. MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
MALLOCH BROS.
50 WILLIAM ST., PERTH
£153
• Provides, at no extra cost, constant 50 gallon
supply of hot water. You enjoy ample hot water
for the laundry, bathroom and kitchen.
•Ready for instant use 24 hours a day—never
goes out.
•The CB model has two ovens—one for roasting
—one for simmering. Both thermostatically
controlled.
•Even oven heat guarantees fine cooking—just
like a baker’s oven. You can go out for the day
leaving the dinner in the simmering oven.
•AGA-CB has simmering and boiling hot plates.
Boiling plate boils four pints of water in four
minutes.
•Better insulated than any other cooker. Keeps
kitchen warmer in Winter and cooler in Summer.
• Children can’t burn themselves by leaning on it.
• 10 years’ guarantee means that actually you get
a lifetime of service from your AGA.
•Easy terms are available and fuel savings pro-
vide a substantial part of your payments.
• Included in the price of the AGA is a wonderful
set of cooking utensils specially machine-based.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details
free and without obligation.
NAME -
ADDRESS 1
SB/2
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN JAMES DONOGHUE late of
7 Jones Street Hurstville New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that LILLA
MAY DONOGHUE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3403 of 1955 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 25th day of June 1956 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. ROBERTSON PARKHILL
ROFE & MOFFITT, Solicitors, 12 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney, in the said State.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
SB*
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Bury her deeper
by Douglas
Reeve
< i -a —ON’T say anything
| ■to antagonise them,
JL-X Tom,” said Josephine
nervously, leaning
against the veranda-post to take
some of the baby’s weight off
her aching arm. “You said
you’d be firm with them, but
you’re so tactless sometimes.”
Tom’s arms were aching, too ;
one from carrying tfie heavy
suitcase and the other from the
weight of Jim’s fat four-year-
old body, for Jim had insisted
on being carried like his sister.
The night spent in his brother’s
furniture-van had not improved
any of their tempers; there was
a touch of asperity in his voice
when he replied.
“Oh, don’t fuss, Jo. They’ve
got two rooms to let and we’ve
got the money to pay for them.
We’re early, and if we are the
first we’re entitled to get them.
I’ll be civil to them, but I’m not
going to crawl to anyone.”
“That’s all very well, but
we’ve got two small children,
remember. Please be nice to
them, Tom, and try and get
round them.”
Tom snorted and thrust out
his jaw; he drew down his
bushy black brows, and his grey
eyes glinted. Tom with a sense
of grievance was as prickly as a
hedgehog. The door was
assaulted rather than knocked.
Josephine shuddered.
After waiting in silence for
about thirty - seconds Tom
groaned and put his son to the
floor. “You be a good boy and
sit quietly on the case,” he
admonished him.
, . ,
Turning to Josephine he
muttered gruffly, “You’d think
they’d be expecting callers—
they’ll get plenty of them before
today is much older.
while j osep hine rocked the
bab y in her arms and stared
firmly and thoughtfully at the
fStened hTs numbed left
arm and t d his toe
ITTinat .- pnt i v
impatiently ,
Jo looked up. There don t
seem to be anyone in,” she
‘ • „
™ ust
grumbled Tom. They wouldn t
spend money on advertising and
* ben , go out . He hammered on
me door again.
This time there was more
response, and they listened
intently to the footsteps which
dragged hesitantly to the door,
Whoever was inside made no
effort to open the door, and Tom
and Jo looked at each other
blankly. They could hear a
,
deep, labored breathing on the
other side of the door.
Just as Tom, shrugging his
shoulders helplessly had raised
his hand to knock again, they
saw the knob turn slowly, and
9* d °,° r
voice had a keen Idge of
hysterical excitement to it, but
the speaker was indistinguish-
able
• . d enough to
11 Y° u 11 be T B ooa enough to
G p en tbe door tell you, said
Tom, shortly. “I don’t care to
talk to someone I can’t see.”
«q q away> » quavered the
voice> and tbe door was c i ose d
again gent ]y. jq 0 retreating
footsteps were audible, so they
knew he was standing there, the
other side of the door.
Josephine tugged at his arm,
and Jim, becoming aware of the
atmosphere of tension, left his
seat on the case and, whimper-
mg, clutched at his mother’s
skirt.
“We’d better go,” suggested
Jo in a scared whisper.
“I’m damn’ if I’ll go like this,”
Tom whispered back. “By
advertising he as good as asked
us to come here, so the least he
can do is tell us if they are
taken. I’m going to keep on
knocking till he - learns some
manners.”
He tapped gently on the door.
He tapped again.
The door opened again, this
time widely enough for them to
see the man standing there.
TTE was a thin, sad-eyed little
man, with a few teeth he’d
have been better without. His
hair and the stubble on his chin
were grey.
A nondescript little man who
would have been noticed in a
crowd because he was either
drunk or his nerves were shot to
pieces. His hand on the door
was twitching and shaking and
he was breathing as if he had
just run a mile. One hand was
held behind his back, and there
were spots of blood on his
shirt.
“What do you want? Why
don’t you go away and leave me
alone?” he pleaded urgently, and
glanced fearfully behind him.
“You have two vacant
rooms,” began Tom. “Has any-
one been here before us or are
we the first?”
The little man seemed
surprised. He looked past Tom
at Jo and the two children.
“No,” he said. “I mean yes.
That is I’ve got two vacant
rooms, but you certainly can’t
have them. Nobody else has
been here, but . . .”
“The children are quiet,” said
Tom pugnaciously. “I guaran-
tee it. They won’t mark your
furniture. In fact, I’ve got
furniture of my own. You
could take yours out if you like.
I’ll still pay the full amount.”
He pulled out some notes.
“Here, you can take four weeks’
rent straight away. I’ve got a
good job ; we’re not a family of
no-hopers.”
“I’m sorry,” said the little
man. “You don’t seem to
understand. You can’t live
here. I’d like to help you,
.but . . .”
Tom’s nostrils quivered and
his lips tightened. “It’s the
kids, isn’t it? I’ve told you
they’re quiet, but you won’t
believe it. You just don’t want
to. Well, see here, mister, we
were here first and we are going
to stay here and tell all the
others that we were first. You
can either let us have the rooms
or call the police and have us
kicked out.”
He grinned sardonically.
“Maybe we’ll get a bit of
publicity that way. There must
be someone in this city with
rooms to let who doesn’t mind
kids.”
The little man started to
shake all over, and his face
worked strangely. He was
frightened of something. Again
he looked over his shoulder; he
Seemed to be listening.
Pulling himself together with
an effort, he whined at Tom. “I
don’t want to cause any trouble;
I won’t send for the police. But
this is my house and I. don’t
have to let rooms to you if I
don’t want to —my wife
wouldn’t like it. Please go
away.”
Tom was about to speak
when Jo stepped forward. She
was crying. “Couldn’t you give
us a trial?” she pleaded. “We’ve
nowhere else to go. We were
evicted from our house because
the owner wanted to sell it.
We spent last night in a
furniture-lorry. You can see the
kids are just about all-in.
Couldn’t you give us a chance,
just for the children’s sake?
Please, mister.”
The little man looked at her
helplessly. For a moment he
had forgotten his own fears.
“I just don’t know what to say
to you,” he muttered. “Not
that it makes much difference
now, anyway.”
He was talking vaguely,
almost to himself. They
watched him come to a decision.
“All right,” he said. “I can’t
kick you when you are down.
You seem to be determined to
live here, and you don’t give me
much choice. You’d better
come inside, though what my
wife would say . . .” He
shrugged his shoulders and
spread out his hands.
They stood quite ssill and
stared at the object in his hand.
The little man followed their
gaze and seemed surprised to
see the bloodstained tomahawk.
Putting his hand behind his back
again he grinned foolishly like
a guilty schoolboy; he began
to shudder violently.
Tom gulped and fought for
words. “Have you been killing
a chook?” he suggested
huskily.
“Yes, yes. A chook. I’ve
just been killing a chook.” He
THE VINTAGE
In blissful measure moving
The choric angels tread
The winepress of our aeon,
The harvests of the dead;
Their lifting feet are red.
I see in deepest midnight
A glare upon the sky;
I hear behind the silence
The spirit-voices cry
Bidding my tongue reply.
Cry that the seals are broken
That cannot be restored;
Deceit has bred confusion
Confusion the abhorred
Avenger with the sword.
Shall my flesh too be trampled,
My veins flow out like must?
Lord, when the terror tries me
Shall I stand with the just,
Or faint away to dust?
The cockcrow sounds the vintage
Like blood splashed on the sky.
Blissful those angel-dances,
Blissful the mystery
Their voices bid me cry.
n.s.w.
JAMES McAULEY.


$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
li
WELL
LININGS
□
□
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should * always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED '
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE 8X4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES:. ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN LISMORE
queanbeyan, rydalmere. TAMWORTH.
:v
m
1
I
MxOiPJi
i*i Stamuui
CLOTHES
• . . because Stamina clothes give
protection all the year round
Made exclusively from pure-wool, specially-woven
cloth, they provide youngsters with that extra,
natural warmth they need in winter. . . warmth
that guards them against coughs, colds and
influenza.
But children need Stamina protection in warmer
months, too. It is so easy for them to catch colds
on changeable spring and summer days. The Pure
Wool Crusader cloth from which all Stamina
clothes are made is a scientific insulation. So, no
matter how over-heated they become from running
.around. Stamina ensures that they cool off slowly,
naturally, healthily.
Remember, too, that Stamina clothes are made
better, made stronger . . . and cost less.
ASK FOR
Stamina
SCHOOL WEAR
K.B AND RANGER KNICKERS • BOYS’ SUITS • GIRLS’ TUNICS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
5W1.113
snatched at Tom’s words.
“That’s right, a chook. I’ve just
killed an old hen.”
Then he began to laugh un-
controllably. The others tried
to join in the . laughter, but it
was not the sort they could
share, and they stood there and
stared at him.
DURING the night a sound
jolted 'Josephine awake.
The unfamiliar surroundings
gave her a moment of wild
panic, but when she realised
where she was she gave a
giggling sigh of relief. She held
her breath while she listened first
to the baby’s regular breathing
and then to Jimmy’s. Tom was
snoring quietly as usual, and he
grunted as she heaved him over
on to his side. Everyone was
accounted-for, and she smiled
happily as. she closed her eyes
and relaxed.
Then she heard the sound
again and remembered the one
that had awakened her. A heavy
shuffling step, a grunt, and then
silence. Jo sat up in bed and
strained her ears; she could
hear heavy breathing outside the
door. She leaned over Tom and
shook him gently. When he
stirred she cupped her hand
over his mouth and whispered
in his ear.
“Tom, someone’s standing
outside the door. I’m not sure,
but I think it’s Mr. Davenport.”
Tom did not like this at all.
He sat up quietly and listened.
“I can hear him,” he
whispered irritably. “I wonder
what the hell he’s up to.”
“Get up and ask him what he
wants,” suggested Jo nervously.
“I can’t do that,” muttered
Tom sulkily. “It’s his house. I
guess he can prowl around it if
he wants to. Perhaps he’s nuts.
What time is it, anyway?”
Jo put out her hand and
groped on the floor for the
torch she kept ready in case the
baby woke up. She shaded the
beam with her hand and shone
it on the clock beside the bed.
“It’s half-past-two. No one
in his right mind would be
wandering about for no reason
at this hour.”
They listened to the footsteps
move away from their door and
down the passage.
Tom was puzzled. “I don’t
see how that can be Davenport,”
he muttered. “He’s such a little
fellow; he wouldn’t make a
noise like that. It sounds like
someone drunk staggering along
the hall. He lurched against
the wall just now. Something
queer is”
His words were stilled by a
resounding crash and a cry of
pain from the hall outside. It
was Davenport’s voice, sure
enough.
Tom leapt out of bed and tore
open the door. It was pitch-
black in the passage and he
couldn’t find the light switch.
He turned back and snapped-
out a demand for the torch. The
baby started to bawl, and Jimmy
shouted, “Mummy! Mummy! ”
By the time Tom got back to
the open door there was a
scuffling in the passage and
Davenport appeared in the door-
way. He put his hands on the
door-jambs, thus barring Tom’s
way, and began to jabber
apologies.
“I should think so, too,”
roared Tom above the din.
“What the devil is going on? It
sounded as if you were throwing
sacks of potatoes about. Just
what were you doing?”
“Yes, that’s right. I was
carrying a sack of potatoes to
the shed at the back. I tripped
over and dropped them. The
greengrocer left them the other
day and I couldn’t find the time
to take them through. I
couldn’t sleep, so I carried them
out tonight. I tried not to dis-
turb you, but I tripped. I’m
very sorry. I’ll just shut the
door and let you get off to sleep
again. Please accept my
apologies.”
“Forget it,” said Tom
gruffly. “I’ll give you a hand
to get that sack through”
“No, no, no,” babbled Daven-
port. “I couldn’t think of dis-
turbing you. No, please. I
shall be deeply hurt if you don’t
go back to bed. I’ve disturbed
you enough. I insist you go
back to bed. After all, this is
my house. And as I told you
last night Mrs. Davenport is ill
and mustn’t be disturbed. Please
go back to bed.”
Davenport’s voice was hysteri-
cal and incoherent as he
alternatively demanded and
pleaded.
“All right, all right, we’ll go,”
said Tom huffily, and slammed
the door.
“This is a damn’ funny house-
hold,” he said savagely and
loudly.
“Shhh,” said Jo. “Don’t
antagonise him. We are very
lucky to be here.”
After some time they all
went back to sleep.
WHEN Tom came home from
* * work next evening the rain
had stopped and the sun was
shining brightly. It made the
street look quite different.
But surely the house couldn’t
look as different as all that. He
peered suspiciously at the
number on the gate ; number-
forty-five, all right, but the
whole house looked wrong.
The certainty that this house
was not the place where he had
slept, or at any rate tried to
sleep, the night before, grew so
strong that he could not bring
himself to go up to the front-
door and knock.
He was fishing in his pocket
for t.he advertisement that he
had torn out of the paper, the
previous day, when he heard his
name called from the other side
of the road. Jo was waving to
him from the veranda of a house
which quite obviously was the
one where he lived. Funny,
he could have sworn that the
advert, said forty-five Elmer-
street.
Jo came out to meet him, her
lips twitching when she saw the
puzzled look on his face.
“I know just what you are
thinking,” said Jo. “You’ll
never guess what has happened.
I found it out when I came
back from the shop this morning
and it explains why Mr. Daven-
port seemed so queer yesterday.
Our house is number fifty-four.”
She paused to let Tom catch
her meaning.
Tom blinked at her. “You
mean . . .”
“Mr. Davenport hadn’t adver-
tised at all. We made a
mistake over the number and
just pushed ourselves on him.
It’s no wonder he was so upset.”
Tom whistled thoughtfully.
“So he didn’t want to let part
of his house at all and we
forced him to? Good lord!
How’s he taking it today? Is he
reconciled to having us or have
we got to get out? I can’t say
I’d blame him.”
“No, Tom. He seems to be
glad we’re here. He’s lovely—
quite different from yesterday.
He’s as happy as a sandboy.
Mrs. Davenport is not here
today, which is perhaps just as
well from what they said up at
the grocer’s. Apparently she
leads him a merry old dance—
she’s a real old dragon, they
say.”
“Take it easy,” urged Tom.
“I thought his wife was supposed
to be ill? She was too ill to
see us yesterday, and now you
say she’s gone. Where’s she
gone, to hospital?”
“It’s all a bit strange, really.
After you had gone this morn-
ing he asked me if I’d mind
cooking his breakfast. Naturally
I agreed. I did some bacon-and-
eggs for him and some toast for
his wife —he said his wife doesn’t
o Continued on page 34)
THE HANDS
Delicately, the hands made
Speech
To the eyes .. . . laid
An unsaid word
On closed lids,
Flower-like
To open as touch bids,
And felt they heard.
N.S.W.
JOAN MAS.


Faith In the
Future
K-#f
The Darling Downs of Queensland contain
some of the richest soil in the world; black and
deep, and capable of producing crops year by year
without external replenishment.
For years now, wheat from the Downs has
ranked quality-high in Australia’s grain harvest.
And something has happened to give this favoured
pocket of earth a new significance.
A trial planting of cotton in its northern
districts was so successful that seven times that
acreage has been put under cotton—and more of
the local wheat farmers are becoming interested in
it as a crop.
This is proof of the diversity at which
Australia can and, I believe, must aim in primary
production.
Sixty per cent, of our total crop-land has been
devoted to wheat. Good farming, exceptional
seasons and clever plant-breeding have combined
to give us higher yields from a lower general
acreage. It has been estimated that in 1955-56
Australia will be producing 195 million bushels, or
27 million bushels more than in the preceding year.
And, as we know, world wheat crops have been
abundant and the United States and Canada have
huge surpluses in store.
Contrast that with our position in cotton.
Queensland, the cotton State, produced 4500 bales
last year, mainly from the Dawson Valley—and
nearly 105,000 bales were imported from sterling
and dollar countries to keep the spinning and
weaving mills supplied. During the year, cotton
piece goods valued at more than £43 million came
into Australia.
I look to the time, and soon, when this country
will be growing more of its own cotton requirements.
For this is one industry that we can expand in the
surety of a good home market.
But, as I saw in America last year, the key to
its success lies in the use of mechanical harvesters
that will lighten the labour and cheapen the cost.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy (or borrow ; return in
one month) Stephen H. Roberts’s The
Squatting Age in Australia, 1835-1847,
and/or The History of Australian
Land Settlement, by the same author.
—6298.
rr , P T , rj.
To buy copy of Lawson by His
Mates , published by Angus and Rob-
ertson. 6300.
Words of poem by Henry Kendall
written in memory of his friend
William Vandameulan Wild, which
may have been titled “Why Art Thou
Silent, Australia?” and which
begins:—
A strange shadow broods o’er the desolate
earth,
And the cypresses tremble and quiver,
And my heart waxeth dark at the thought
That°lu l t s he ieft 0 us 1 lor ever and ever
rhat has left us for ever and ever
'
fec i .
lntormation oougint
, Where are pygmy flying-possums
found in Australia, and how can they
be identified ?
They are plentiful in the bushlands
of N. S. Wales, Victoria and Queens-
land. Thg head and body together
are 3in. long, the tail about the same;
the body is covered with a soft, silky
fur, greyish-brown above, yellowish
below. The flying-membrane is
fringed with long hairs. The tail is
fringed on each side with a row of
f Ton Z hairs > it a featherlike
j* he of the
tail s bare -
Brief account of the Greycliffe dis-
aster on Sydney Harbor?
On Nov. 3, 1927, about 4.30 p.m.
the mail . stea ’ mer Tahiti, outward-
bound to San Francisco, rammed
from astern the ferry Greycliffe, which
heeled over and sank almost immad-
iately. Launches and other craft raced
to the scene, but rescue was difficult
and some of the passengers and orew
were in the water more than half-an-
hour. In all 40 people, many of them
schoolgirls, were killed or drowned,
and an equal number injured. The
Court of Marine Inquiry, delivering
judgment on Jan. 7, 1928, after
investigating the cause of the coi-
lisiop, found that the “approximate
and efficient” cause was the failure of
the Tahiti to observe the necessary
regulation regarding the navigation
of deep-sea vessels proceeding down
the harbor; its speed between Garden
Island and Bradley’s Head was
excessive. The master of the Greycliffe
was held to be in no way culpable.
* * * *
The walls of a room are damp to
the extent that the wallpaper has lo'st
its adhesion. The old malthoid
dampeourse has been replaced with
6in. otf lead, so that there is a good
overlap on each side of the brick ;
the wall is as damp as ever. The gap
between the walls at the base has
been checked for mortar. Any treat-
ment before re-papering ?
First make a further check for
water-permeation: check the wall-
ties to see that no mortar is bridg-
ing them; if there is, tie a chain to
a rope, drop it down the cavity and
swing it back and forth until the
mortar is broken off. Make sure also
that ventilation is adequate, and add
more ventilators or change the exist-
ing ones to more strategic positions
where necessary. Next, select a time
when the wall is dry enough to paint
and apply one or two coats of cement-
sealer ; the coating should be applied
all over the wall, not just in the damp
spot. Should this fail, you could hang
either tin-foil sheets or tarred paper,
both of which can be obtained (with
advice on hanging them) from
wallpaper-retailers ; then hang a
lining-paper and, finally, your wall-
paper.
* * *
The Bank of New South Wales, in
a history of itself issued at the time
of its centenary, said that it, like
other Australian banks, is run on the
Scottish system of banking. What is
this system ?
The “Scottish system” is not a term
in current use, but in the 19th century
it was used to signify three features
of banking in Scotland —joint-stock
banking, branch-banking and lend-
ing by cash-credit (or, as it is better-
known, the overdraft-system). Of
these, branch-banking was most
generally associated with the Scottish
system, and the centenary-publication
would be referring to the Australian
adoption of this feature. Scottish
banks were the first to develop
branch-banking, with the advantage
that it permitted the establishment of
a branch or agency of a large and
powerful banking-institution in a small
town which, through its y limited
ability to clear expenses, could not
support an independent private bank.
Bankers in England were coy to the
Scottish example, and for many years
favored the private bank with a single
city-office; today branch-banking is a
pronounced feature of the English
system. The branch-system suited
the pattern of Australian develop-
ment : as the settlers moved afield
from the centres of population they
would for some time retain their
accounts in the large town, but when
the population of the new outer-
settlement increased, they demanded
local banking-facilities. Often the
residents planned ,the establishment of
a local private bank, but the larger
concerns of the town, not wishing to
lose their accounts, established
branches. And so the system has
prevailed. (American banks favor
the unitary-system—banking from a
single city-office; the rule has been
to have independent banks, one or
more in each town, branch-offices
being rare. In France and Germany
there are large banks with branch-
offices, but also a large number of
individual private banks. The Scandi-
navian countries favor the branch-
system.)
* * * •
(1) In World War 11 did the
Western Allies “slow down f ’ so that
the Russians could be first to enter
Berlin? (2) Did Churchill approve of
this ?
(1) Yes. When the Western Allies
reached the Elbe, only 60 miles from
Berlin, on April 12, 1945, they were
ordered to halt. The Russians entered
Berlin on April 22, and the city
surrendered to them on May 2.
(On April 25 American and Russian
troops met on the Elbe.) (2) No. In
Vol. VI of his The Second World
War Churchill quotes a letter of his
to General Ismay dated March 31,
1945, in which he says: “It also
seems that General Eisenhower may
be wrong in supposing Berlin to be
largely devoid of military and political
importance Even though German
Government departments have to a
great extent moved to the south, the
dominating fact on German minds of
the fall of Berlin should not be over-
looked. The idea of neglecting Ber-
lin and leaving it to the Russians to
take at a later stage does not
appear to me correct.” (In a letter
of the same date Churchill wrote in
similar strain to Eisenhower.) It
appears that Eisenhower and Stalin,
as the two Commanders-in-Chief, had
agreed to leave Berlin to the Russians,
Eisenhower believing that the Western
Allies’ thrust should concentrate more
to the south of Germany and agree-
ing with Stalin’s expressed view that
Berlin had lost its former strategic
importance. “The Soviet High
Command therefore plans,” Stalin
had informed Eisenhower, “to allot
only secondary forces in the direction
of Berlin” ... a statement, Churchill
points out, certainly not borne out by
events.
* * * *
Pools of water on it during Sydney’s
Wet have turned my concrete portico
black. How to rectify, considering
plants in the near-by flower-bed ?
' Hot water mixed with a detergent in
accordance with manufacturer’s direc-
tions would be the safest way. Depend-
ing on its condition, a certain amount
of scrubbing may be necessary, A
solution of one-part spirits-of-salt to
six-parts water would have a more
marked effect on the surface, but
should only be used if the first sugges-
tion doesn’t pay-off: the spirits-of-
salt will actually attack the concrete
itself, and would quite likely have
a harmful effect on the plants. If this
method is used, first thoroughly
dampen the portico, so that the
spirits-of-salt will not become
absorbed into the body of the con-
crete ; and take care after the job to
hose-off the surface well. The con-
dition can be prevented from recurring
if the surface is treated with a mix-
ture of zinc and magnesium fluosili-
cates. This is available commercially
under the trade-name Fluate, marketed
by Recla Pipes, Ltd., 14 Spring-street,
Sydney, and should be used in
accordance with manufacturer’s direc-
tions.
* * *
(1) Some books dealing with the
Nuremberg trial of 1945-46? (2) Can
books on the trial be consulted at
Australian libraries ?
(1) The complete version of the pro-
ceedings of the trial and the full text
of the documents presented in evidence
have been published as The Trial of
the Major War Criminals before the
International Military Tribunal, Pro-
ceedings (Vol. I-XXIII), Documents
in Evidence (Vols. XXIV-XLII).
Translations of most of the documents
used by British and American Prose-
cuting counsel have been published
by the United States Government
Printing Office under the title Nazi
Conspiracy and ‘Aggression. A
verbatim record of the trial proceed-
ings has been published by H. M.
Stationary Office, London, under the
title The Trial of German Major War
Criminals (in 22 parts). Other works
include Sir D. Mhxwell Fyfe’s War
Crimes Trials, D. M. Kelley’s Twenty-
two Cells in Nuremberg, R. W.
Cooper’s The Nuremberg Trial (a
good compact account of the trials,
published as a Penguin), Peter Calvo-
coressi’s Nuremberg and G. M. Gil-
bert’s Nuremberg Diary. (2) Each
capital-city public-library has a
reasonably complete section of books
on the trial.
Brief Answers
F.M.: Professor Guy Howarth,
University of Cdpe Town, Cape Town,
Cape Province, South Africa
M. : The Doomben Ten Thou-
sand is down for July 7, the Cup for
July 14 W.M.: Obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney A.R.: W. B.
Mclnnes won the first Archibald Prize
(1921) with a portrait of Desbrowe
Annear; Walter Withers, the first
Wynne Prize with “The Storm”;
Henry Hanke, the first Sulman Prize
with “La Gitana,” an oil-painting....
J.M,G.: See article on Henry Kendall
by E. A. Riley in “Royal Australian
Historical Society Journal and Pro-
ceedings,” Vol. 20, part 5... .A.J.M.:
“Storky” Adams’s name is M. P.
Greenwood-Adams. His address is
6770 Milner-road, Hollywood, 28,
California, U.S.A J.D.E.: Suggest
you write to Australian Broadcasting
Commission, Box 487, G.P.0., Sydney.
... .E.McK.: Write any of the follow-
ing: John Farquharson, 8 Halsey
House, Red Lion-square, London,
W.C.I; Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6
Henrietta-street, London, W.C.2;
Hughes Massie and Co., Ltd., 40
Fleet-street, London, W.C.2; A. P.
J Watt and Sons, Hastings House, Nor-
folk-street, Strand, London, W.C.2.
W.J.: Dr. Charles Fenner died
on June 9, 1955 A.C.McK.: Write
Lennox Walker, Crohamhurst Obser-
vatory, Beerwah (Q.)... .C.R.M.:
State duty as follows: (1) If the estate
passes to the widow, widower, or
infant children of the deceased, no
death-duty is payable. If it passes to
adult children, duty is at the rate of-
p.c.; if to brother or" sister, or issue
of brother or sister, 5| p.c.; if to pre-
scribed charities, 2| p.c.; if to other
persons or institutions, 8| p.c. (2) In
the first instance, none; in the others,
3f p.c., 5f p.c., 2 \ p.c. and
8i p.c. respectively F.C.: A good
idea to take all precautions A.P.:
Write the Royal Australian Historical
Society, History House, 8 Young-
street, Sydney S.R.: Colonial
Ballads, edited by Hugh Anderson,
was reviewed in The Bulletin of Jan-
uary 25, 1956. It is obtainable from
the publishers, The Ram’s Skull Press,
Ferntree Gully (Vic.) A.8.J.: The
Coonawarra vineyards in South Aus-
tralia are the property of Woodley
Wines, Ltd., Glen Osmond (S.A.)
N. : The Bishop with 150 Wives,
by F. X. Gsell, obtainable leading
booksellers, price 16s H.E.F.:
Dates of their deaths were as follows:
J. H. M. Abbott, Aug. 12, 1953;
Bartlett Adamson, Nov. 5, 1951; Max
Afford Nov. 3, 1954; John Armour,
May 1, 1954; Kate Baker, Oct. 7,
1953; Neville Barnett, June 6, 1953;
Daisy Bates, April 18, 1951; C. H.
Bertie, July 19, 1952; E. J. Brady,
July 22, 1952; Roy Bridges, Feb. 14,
1952; Erie Cox, Nov. 20, 1950;
Charles Fenner, June 9, 1955; Miles
Franklin, Sept. 19, 1954; Arthur
Gask, June 25, 1951 ; Beatrice Grim-
shaw, June 30, 1953 ; J. J. Hardie,
Oct. 6, 1951; P. J. Hartigan, Dec. 28,
1952; H. E. Home, July 14, 1955;
Guy Innes, Feb. 25, 1953; Louis
Lavater, May 22, 1953; Jack
McLaren, May 16, 1954; A. E. Mar-
tin, June 7, 1955; Leonard Matters,
Oct. 31, 1951; Bernard O’Dowd,
Sept. 1, 1953; Brian Penton, Aug. 24,
1951; J. Howlett Ross, April 28,
1953 ; Percival Serle, Dec. 16, 1951;
Lionel Shave, April 16, 1954; Mary
Skinner, May 25, 1955; J. J. Stable,
Dec. 24, 1953; Brian Vrepont, Mar.
10, 1955; Chester Wilmot, Jan. 10,
1954 D.G.: (1) Cannas will grow
in practically any position, but protec-
tion from winds is desirable. (2) Light,
sandy loam is the most suitable soil.
(3) Yes, they should be dug up every
year; lift the clumps, re-manure the
beds and replant. (4) They can be
grown from seed; if the seed is soaked
for a while in warm water P.G.:
(1) The 1890 maritime strike lasted
from the middle of August until the
end of October. (2) Yes, in Sep-
tember, 1894, woolsheds were burned
down at Cambridge Downs, Manika
and Dogworth stations. (3) Mounted
police and mounted infantry were
dispatched to Clermont in February
1891 W.M.F.: Birth of the kanga-
roo and other marsupials is dealt
with in articles entitled “The Mystery
of Marsupial Birth and Transference
to the Pouch,” by E. L. Troughton in
the “Australian Museum Magazine ”
Vol. 11, No. 77, 1926; and “Further
Notes Upon Marsupial Birth” in Vol.
111, No. 2, 1927. Copies may be
seen at the Australian Museum,
College-street, Sydney. Wild Animals
of Australasia, by Le Souef and
Burrell, also deals with the subject.
See also “Abariginalities” par. in this
issue of The Bulletin C.J.N.:
Probably a matter of diet. Give the
bird fat and bufter spread on toast,
letting the toast get cold before .butter-
ing it; and put a few drops of
codliver-oil on its food each day.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
D.C.8.: You will have to drop that
anchor elsewhere H.R.S.: Not
conferring immortality on Jim McGill.
A.C.Z.: Switched off the “white
green moonblest quivering living
light”... .E.R.: We left him to his
roaming “At night beneath alien
stars” J.M.W.: It was hardly
worth keeping all that time L.L.:
Sent it back to “beyond the mountain’s
ghostly silhouette” R.R.: Felt no
desire to travel the path to the little
white gate 1.M.N.: You have our
sympathy:—
I’d love to spend some time with books,
Instead I first must feed the chooks,
Clean the windows, dust the sills,
Bath the kids, prepare the meals,
Then try to remain serene
While I wash the dishes clean.
P.C.: Those wild birds will not
“fly to and fro” in our columns
8.M.W.: That sun sank into the
basket W. 8.0.: Well, here it is,
duly recorded: —
November fourteen, twenty-five,
A Federal election
Was held which -was historical
It introduced compulsion.
... .M.P.T.: We have noted the fact
that “a contact with a rainbow would
seem impossible” J.K.S.: Closed
the door to the weekend shoppers.
H.A. :The Bulletin could paper
the entire premises with similar verses
on the same soul-weariness theme.
... .8.5.: You’d need to be more of
a Skuthoirpe than a Shakspeare to
tame that metre R.K.8.: Cannot
undertake to point out “obvious
defects” in paragraphs. To ascertain
our “specific requirements,” read what
goes in M.M.: Four lines, which
seem to prove that there is joy
everywhere if we can only see it: —
White sands gleaming, laughter shrilling;
Music thrilling; life of the young!
Mothers laughing, children screaming—
Oh, what gladness we walk among!
M.K.: Same old hero jailed on
same old false charge P.McD.:
Weak as an amateur actor’s memory.
K.W.: A realistic fragment from
Grandfather’s rejuvenation:
He tried to make up to any young miss,
Called our big barmaid a little peach.
When he asked her if she’d like a kiss,
Lord, how that fat barmaid did screech 1
. ...C.R.: “I enclose a contribution
for your wastepaper-basket.” There
is many a true word spoken in jest.
. ...F.M.: Somebody must have
dropped the sliprails and let your
Muse out... .W.M.E.: One poignant
stanza from “Good-bye to Daisy”:
Good-bye, good-bye, farewell my Daisy 1
I am still over you terribly crazy.
You to the city have gone for a trip,
Leaving your boy-friend behind in the
grip
Of hopeless love, with heart ablaze.
Oh 1 I love you true, my darling Dais'.
A.M.J.: Coaxed jittery old lady
into an envelope for homeward
journey... .R.W.: A whirl of unreal
characters and improbable situations.
. .M.F.: Again that yarn about the
wharfies who got sozzled on liquor
in which a zoological specimen was
pickled; time they tried a new drink.
. ...H.8.: There are too many poets
weeping into their typewriters nowa-
days S.W.: Glad to note that
there are Australians still energetic
enough to go on observing dawns,
even though they don’t make poetry
of them... .S.J.T.: That’s the troub e
—too much textbook and too little
of life in your story M.V.S.: He
has to be something special in swag-
men to get through these days....
E.W.P.: Do you write 2000 words a
day as a penance? T.A.McK.:
Poem in 240 lines did not live up to
the opening: “He was old and worn,
one eye was gone”... .R.W.S.:
“Prithee, Bulletin, is this worth an
inch of space?” Ecod, nay, fair
scribe!... .G.M.M.: “The Squatters
Wife Finds a Lover Among the
Shearers” doesn’t live up to its prom-
ising title....R.S.: Can’t make the
shotgun-wedding plot new by making
it a boomerang wedding.. . .F.B--
Have no spare corners in which we
could tuck it away R.8.C..
Strange, but almost half of recent
first-attempts tell how the man from
the tfush reforms his youthful sweet-
heart turned streetwalker BCI--
Two lines full of tender grace from
“In a Dairy”:
Here’s Strawberry coming in;
She’ll fill the blooming tin.


Celebrated Dog Celebrated Now
How Many Miles
from Gundagai?
By JOHN MEREDITH and PATRICIA FRANCIS
FROM April 19 to 24 Back
to Gundagai Week is be-
ing celebrated in a light-
hearted fashion, with
emphasis on the humor, rather
than the tragedy, of Gundagai’s
past history—or legend.
Everybody knows about the
humorous side of Gundagai’s
past, for that Dog, celebrated
in eastern Riverina folklore, by
a single stroke of masterly
advertising publicised its home-
town to a degree unshared by
any other Australian locality.
But there is a darker side to
the story, for the history of
Gundagai, like the history of
all Australia, is a mixture of
comedy and tragedy, of success
and discouragement; the build-
ing-up of prosperity, and its
destruction by floodwaters—and
by official indifference; of
courageous efforts to rebuild,
culminating in its present posi-
tion as the centre of one of our
most prosperous grazing-areas.
Gundagai an aboriginal
word meaning “going up
stream”—was first settled by Ben
Warby, of Campbelltown, and
Peter Stuckey, of Willie Ploma,
now South Gundagai.
The town-site was surveyed in
1838, and marked-out in 1840.
The first shop was built in 1842,
and was inevitably and speedily
followed by a hotel.
It is on record that after the
severe flood of 1844, when water
rose four- to five-feet in the
township, Commissioner Bing-
ham wrote to the Colonial Secre-
tary suggesting that “in conse-
quence of the late floods it
would be highly essential to the
future welfare of the township
of Gundagai to have part of the
town laid-out on the south bank
of the Murrumbidgee River on
moderately high ground well
adapted for building, giving the
parties who now have allot-
ments in the recently flooded
land others on high ground.”
Governor Gipps vetoed this
suggestion, with disastrous con-
sequence to the settlers on the
flood-threatened selections, for
in the flood of June, 1852,
almost the whole township was
washed away and, as far as can
be-discovered, 100 settlers were
drowned.
A recitation dubbed “The
Settlements Below” (and often
sung as a ballad to the tradi-
tional tune “The Cry Lookout
Below”) makes ironic comment
on the event:
Ye watermen of Gundagai
Who’re grounded in, the mud,
Whose huts not quite triumphantly
Have battled with the flood;
Your new allotments haste to buy,
And pay for as you go,
For the old ones are all gone
To the settlements below.
New Holland lacks much water
Her flocks and herds : to keep;
Your streets are little rivulets,
Your homes are in the deep.
With punts, canoes and jolly-boats,
From hut to hut ye go,
As ye swim down with the stream
To the settlements below.
Your wives’ and children’s drown-
ing cries
Shall rise with every shower —
They swam their last at Gundagai
In that ill-omened hour.
Then Gundagai, then Gundagai,
Be liberal with your purse,
Again town allotments buy
“For better or for worse.”
A contemporary bard, one
Jos Riley, of Castlestead, was on
the scene to record his impres-
sions of the tragedy (mid-Vic-
torian rantings over genuinely
moving events more often move
20th-century readers to laughter,
but are such verses really more
exaggerated than modern news-
paper reporting?). Here are a
few of Jos Riley’s stanzas;
from his work entitled “The
Gundagai Calamity”:
O! mourn, Australia: weep and
mourn,
For yonder floats as sad a wail
As e’er on tempest wing was borne
Along the Murrumbidgee vale.
On, on the waters madly rush
O’er highest bank at wildest will,
And many a cherished hope they
crush,
And many a piercing cry they
still.
The old, the young, the strong,
the weak,
The bold, the timid and the
brave,
“Sleepwalking again !”
Their voices lend to that loud
shriek
Then, struggling, fill a watery
See how that noble saddled steed,
Who felt a master’s kindest care,
Now with the current tries his
speed;
But where’s that master—where,
oh where? .
Vainly plunging in yon tree,
A horse is by the neck held fast;
The sinking stream will surely see
His carcass dangling in the blast.
Insatiate Death! What sights were
bared
To those who stared with looks
aghast,
When the receding flood declared
The secrets of thy dread repast;
While desolation far and wide
The water’s raging course be-
trayed
And fierce ’ destruction’s reckless
stride
Disclosed the wreck his hands
had made.
•
On that sad scene ’twere vain to
dwell,
What gathered corpses strewed
the ground;
And many a tear of anguish fell
In bitter memory of the drowned,
Brief little lists of missing
people are more poignant re-
minders of contemporary sympa-
thisers, themselves possible suf-
ferers in more recent floods:
whole families disappeared . . .
Patrick and Mary Gormley and
three children . . . Gerald and
Ann Hemphill and four children
. . . Allan and Elizabeth Mc-
Kenna and five children . . .
Catherine Thatcher and seven
children.
Another actual figure from
those times (and a very appeal-
ing one) is celebrated in further
florid 19th - century verse —
“Yarrie! The Hero of That
Tragic Night.” The fragments
of the saga come, this time,
from a broadsheet in the
“Gundagai Independent”:
The town of Gundagai first stood
Upon the flat so nice and green,
The scene was fair, the soil was
good,
The river and the creek between.
’Neath shady gums the children
play;
The black men shook their
heads in doubt;
They said, “Baal, that one good to
stay
When big one flood him walk
about.”
But talk of floods could not avail,
The boldest didn’t care a darn
For what they thought a fairy tale,
Or just some ancient woman’s
yarn.
At last one night a bushman came,
He coo-eed not, nor sang a song:
The night was dark, his horse was
lame —
He’d raced him from Gobarra-
long.
“Get up,” he yelled, “I warn you,
fly!
Go off from here to higher
ground;
The water’s coming mountain-
high—
If you stay here you’ll all be
drowned.”
“The man is mad!” then someone
said,
“He’s either mad or drunk or
both;
And I for one go back to bed;
I wouldn’t believe him on his
oath.”
Such incredulity, as might be
expected, brought its own retri-
bution. Those who went “back
to bed” arose in the morning to
find the floodwaters rising on
every side; and the town’s one
boat (sole means of rescue)
moored on the Murrumbidgee’s
far southern bank. Just at the
crucial moment, two nameless
swagmen arrived on cue. Their
previous calling had been as
“sailormen,” so, dumping their
swags, they picked up the oars,
entered the boat and prepared
to do what they could for the
repentant population:
Without mishap they reached the
town,
Where people on their houses
sat;
They started on the lowest down,
And those most easy to get at.
“Take me! Take me! I’ll help you
pull!”
Cried girls and children in the
sheds;
The sailors filled the boat too
full —•
Their hearts were softer than
their heads.
Thus the soft-hearted sailor-
swagmen perished with their
boatload of inhabitants. But
herQ Qf stQry wa§ ygt tQ
a PP ear > m a much humbler
rescue-vessel a native bark-
canoe, which the author of the
broadsheet thus described:
Hext cOTnes Australia’s Sable Son,
’Twas Yarrie in his bark canoe-
The deeds he did were nobly done,
As we will now relate to you.
That frail canoe the flood to span
Poor imitation of a boat!
Said they, it takes a clever man
To even keep the thing afloat.
But what’s that shouting? Listen,
* hark!
The lookers-on are cheering
wild;
Bold Yarrie and his sheet of bark
Have saved a woman and her
child.
. ... .. .
Wild Yarrie and his craft was blest
Each time he struggled to the
shore;
They say old Yarrie did his best,
H s0 > the best could do no more.
Droughts and floods will ever be;
T } le taie 0 t Yarrie’s bark canoe
z teR as it was told to me
% one fo e saved in ’fifty-two
Siuce the ff> lon S y ears have come
whe a r " d r S arri‘e’sleeps is high end
dry; s
And floods still roll as they rolled
on
Before the flood of Gundagai.
With the passing of the flood
of 1852 we pass to the lighter
side of Gundagai’s history, and
to the Dog itself, around which
controversy still gathers. Just
where did the story of the Dog
on the Tuckerbox find its be-
ginning? Surely such a flesh-
and-blood drover and his dog
must have camped by the Five
Mile Creek in the days when it
was the usual camping-place for
bullock-teams on the weary route
between Sydney and Melbourne?
There exists an account of an
old-time stock-drover who was
accustomed to camp in that
vicinity: when compelled to
leave camp for any reason he
would call his dog, point to the
tuckerbox and say “Guard! ”
The dog would immediately
climb on the box, and no per-
suasion would induce it to climb
down until the return of its
master.
This report would seem to
carry some weight with the
citizens of Gundagai, for it was
at Five Mile Creek that they
erected a marble monument of
the Dog on the Tuckerbox, and
it is to the “Five Mile” version
that this recitation of 1859
defers:—
Good morning, mate, you are too
late,
The shearing is all over,
Tie up your dog behind, the log —
Come in and have some dover;
For Nobby Jack has broke the
yoke,
Poked out the leader’s eye,
And the dog sat on the tuckerbox,
Five miles from Gundagai.
That recitation of 1859 pre-
cedes by one year the birth of
Jack Moses, who is often
credited with having created the
legend with his ballad “Nine
Miles from Gundagai.” There
was, however, a “Nine Miles
from Gundagai” in existence
before Moses wrote his own
version. This is sung to the tra-
ditional air of “Camooweal
Races”:
I’m used to punchin’ bullock
teams
Across the hills and plains,
I’ve teamed outback these forty
years
In blazin’ droughts and rains;
I’ve lived a heap of troubles down
Without a bloomin’ lie,
But I can’t forget what happened
me
Nine miles from Gundagai.
‘Twas getting dark, the teams got
bogged,
The axle snapped in two,
I lost me matches and me pipe
So what was I to do?
The rain came on, ’twas bitter
cold
And hungry too was I,
And the dog —he sat in the tucker-
box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
Some blokes I know has stacks of
luck
No matter how they fall,
But there was I, Lor’-love-a-duck,
No blessed luck at all.
I couldn’t make a pot o’ tea,
Nor get me trousers dry,
And the dog sat in the tuckerbox
Nine miles from Gundagai.
1 can forgive the blinkin’ team,
I can forgive the rain,
I can forgive the dark and cold
And go through it again;
I can forgive the rotten luck,
But hang me till I die —
I can’t forgive that plurry dog,
Nine miles from Gundagai.
The “Five Mile” partisans sing
the following version of their
battle-hymn to the air “Out on
the Condamine”:
As I came down Talbingo Hill
I heard a maiden cry,
There goes old Bill the Bullocky,
He’s bound for Gundagai;
A better poor old beggar
Never cracked an honest crust,
A tougher poor old beggar
Never drug a whip through dust.
His team got bogged on the Five
Mile creek,
Bill lashed, and swore and cried:
If Nobby don’t get me out of this
I’ll tan his flamin’ hide;
But Nobby strained and broke the
yoke
And poked out the leader’s eye,
Then the dog sat in the tuckerbox
Five miles from Gundagai.
Just to make history more con-
fusing, here is a third version—
often sung as a ballad to the
tune “Willy Riley”—and which
assures the bewildered traveller
o Continued on page 34)


Opening Monday 23 rd April
GENERAL
CREDITS LTD.
offers^
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
Rates of annual interest rising from
3i% for 3 months to 7% for 5 years
and over. Interest paid quarterly
free of exchange. Cumulative stock
carrying 6£% compounded on yearly
rests with currencies of 5 to 15 years.
Prospectus will be available at all
branches of Commonwealth Trading
Bank of Australia,, Members of the
Stock Exchange and Offices of the
Company.
Directors : Sir John Newman-Morris,
C.M.G. (Chairman), J. M. Ford, V. H.
Stanley-Low (Managing), E W. Cox,
John Glen, Eric Hughes, J. F. Hughes,
F. G. Menzies, C.B.E.
UNDERWRITERS:
NOS » ■
ana
■
■
General Credits Ltd. is sponsored by the
Automobile Fire and General Insurance
Company of Australia Limited. This is
not a Prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe for the deben-
ture stock mentioned herein.
3811
!
$
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. Lawry,
Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
A feature of City Tattersall’s
meeting at Randwick on Satur-
day was the display of superb
horsemanship by Neville Sell-
wood, whose six mounts yielded
three wins (successive); a second,
and a third. His winners were
King Boru (7 to 2), Banquo (7
to 1, after 10’s had been bet),
and Magic Carpet II (9 to 2).
J. Thompson now has a premier-
ship lead of only two —47 to 45.
Sellwood was seen at his best
on the grey Magic Carpet 11, in
winning City Tattersall’s Handi-
cap. Sellwood was last into the
straight, but elected to go for
an opening on the rails, and it
came off. There yras just enough
room for him to squeeze through
in the final half-furlong. Magic
Carpet, owned in New Zealand
by J. H. Grigg, may be taken to
Brisbane for the big winter racing
there. A mile-and-a-quarter is
about as far as he likes. Landy,
favorite for the Randwick race,
had every chance. As he has
been in a minor place at his last
seven starts, a fair wad must
have been lost on him by
followers of T. J. Smith’s big-
betting stable.
Banquo won the Randwick
Novice Handicap like a stayer.
A son of Underwood (imp.) and
Lady Macbeth by Foxbridge
(imp.) from All Glory by
Tiderace (imp.), he was bred by
Mrs. G. E. M. Kay, of Te
Awamutu, N.Z.
A broken stirrup cost Stirrup
Cup the Denmkn Stakes (won
by King Boru), while Matouree
had the Novice Handicap won
when his rider, N. McGrowdie,
lost a stirrup-iron in the straight.
With Banquo, The Burn gave
trainer T. J. Smith a winning
double. He is owner-trainer of
Banquo, but Miss Bessie Watt
races The Burn, expected
to be a staying three-year-old
when the spring races come
round. His pedigree has several
stayers of note, among them
Windbag (£35,939, including the
Melbourne Cup), and Loqua-
cious and Feminist (winners of
the A.J.C. Metropolitan Handi-
cap). The Burn is a son of Mid-
stream (imp.) and Blue Sox by
Double Remove (imp.) from Box
On by Magpie (imp.).
Nina Ricci, a maiden two-
year-old filly until last Saturday,
when she won the Nursery
Handicap at Randwick, had
started at 20 to 1 at her prior
start, fading to fifth place after
leading into the straight. Best
price on Saturday was 4 to 1,
and she started equal-favorite
with L’Aurea, who ran much
below her brilliant trials at Rose-
bery, though fourth at the
finish. Nina Ricci is a Newtown
Wonder (imp.) filly from Star
board by Midstream (imp.).
New Zealand - owned and
-bred three-year-old filly Fran-
lyle didn’t take long to win after
joining veteran Randwick
trainer Dan Lewis’s team. She
landed the Princess Handicap at
the A.J.C. autumn meeting, then
was fourth in the Adrian Knox
Stakes to Evening Peal, the mile-
and-a-half proving too far for
her. Till that run she was raced
and trained by G. S. Walton, who
won the A.J.C. Final Handicap
with Decisive. At start for
Lewis —she still is owned by
Walton —Franlyle won City
Tattersall’s Three - year - old
Handicap in a close finish, after
being fifth into the straight. She
is a daughter of White Heather
(imp.) and First Round by
Nightly, and was bred at her
owner’s Otaki stud.
Not all trainers give their
apprentices a chance to win at
Randwick, but Jack Mitchell has
confidence in his apprentice Tom
Odium, who was given the
mount on the stable representa-
tive and hot favorite Belbeiys in
the Club Welter at the City
Tatt.’s meeting. All Odium had
to do was jump Belbeiys out
from the barrier, then give
opponents the job of catching
him. Belbeiys duly won as he
liked, and backers, who secured
2 to 1 and slightly better, had
remarkable odds about a horse
that had finished fourth in the
Doncaster and second to Decisive
in the Final Handicap.
Tasmania has a crack sprinter
fn Gay Lungi, who landed his
10th race on end in the Chair-
man’s Stakes at Caulfield last
Saturday. The three-year-old
gelding is by Lungi (imp.) from
Gay Fairy; his nine previous
successes were recorded in Tas-
mania. At Caulfield he was given
a Phar Lap reception on return-
ing to scale.
When Oxley raced* in Sydney
he was disappointing at several
starts, but since being sold to
Melbourne he has raced to the
top flight of middle-distance and
staying handlicappers, and he
completed a hat-trick when suc-
cessful in the Caulfield St. Kilda
“Stop whingeing. He cant sec YOU, either ."
Handicap (two miles). The aged
Delville Wood gelding had won
the Sandown Cup (13 furlongs)
a week earlier, and at his run
prior to that performance he
had won at If mile at Fleming-
ton. The Melbourne owners
purchased Oxley with the idea
of making a hurdler of him,
but he has done so well on the
flat that those plans have been
shelved. Oxley is engaged in the
Adelaide Cup (two miles), to
be run on May 16, and should
take beating. He cost his present
owners 700gns., and in about
six months since has won £B5OO
in stakes.
Tasmanian Racing Club’s
autumn meeting will be staged
at the Elwick track, Hobart, on
Saturday, April 28, when main
attraction will be the Champion
Stakes, a seven-furlongs handi-
cap for three-year-olds and
upwards.
Probably the best filly ever to
pull a gig in this neck of the
woods, Argent was a sparkling
winner of the Sydney Pacers’
Derby, decided at Harold Park
last Saturday night. Her per-
formance was one to make the
realist reach for his record-book.
She is the second filly ever to
have won the event (Miss Lawn-
ham won in 1940), and Argent’s
time is the second-fastest on
record —bettered only in the
Derby in 1952, when Centennial
Hall had to stretch his neck to
down Ribands. Her win gave
Victorian driver W. J. McKay his
fourth sit behind a Sydney Derby
winner.
Miss Lawrfham, who won the
Derby in 1940, went on to be
one of the best pacers racing at
the Park. Her time for the Derby
(3.20 f) was a record that held
until Silver Peak (sire of Argent)
chopped it to 3.17 f in 1946.
Though Centennial Hall’s record
is 3.1 Of, no horse has ever won
a heat in 3.13 (and on the bit,
at that!) and the final in 3.12 f
(after breaking-up at the start!).
A small bay, Argent gets over the
ground in an amazing fashion.
Free Hall, from S.A., was a good
second ; Doyen, a Sydney pro-
duct, a sound third.
McKay had a busy weekend:
he drove another slippery filly,
Clan McKay, to victory in a heat
of the Victorian Sapling Stakes
on Friday night. First five in the
two heats get a run in this week’s
final. The Victorian Doon Girl
won the first heat. The fillies are
certainly making hay in this
year’s classics.
+ +
There were no upsets in the
first V.F.L. round on Saturday,
played generally in gusty condi-
tions. The first five teams on
last year’s ladder all had more-or-
less comfortable wins. Mel-
bourne, premiers, beat Rich-
mond, 12.16-8.7; Collingwood,
runners-up, slammed Hawthorn,
14.13- ; Geelong, third last
year, was too good for South,
11.11-7.8 ; Essendon, fourth, had
the edge on Carlton, 9.13-5.9 ;
and Footscray stoushed Fitzroy,
14.14- The other victor was
North, thrashing St. Kilda, 15.8-
5.11. (St. Kilda has this year
scrapped more than half its old
players, because, officials claim,
its recruits “couldn’t do any
worse.” True, but they ain’t done
no better neither.)
* * *
The third round of Sydney’s
Rugby Union competition saw
the first trial of the new rule
forbidding kicking-out on the
full from any part of the field
—previously, in club games, the
ball could be kicked-out on the
full from the player’s own 25.
The progressive restriction of
such kicking-out has speeded-up
the game, and this latest rule
resulted on Saturday in fast, non-
stop. football. Gordon easily
disposed of Drummoyne,
to remain alone on top of
the table; East’s went down to
Randwick, 26-13; University
thrashed Manly, 31-8; East-
wood, with the help of a field-
goal which appeared to have
missed the posts, defeated St.
George, 12-9; Parramatta, with
breakaway Graham Galloway in
better kicking-form than the
three North exponents (the Blues
scored only two tries to four),
beat North, 19-17.
* * *
In Sydney Rugby League
games on Saturday three full-
backs scored tries Clifford
(Newtown), Test captain Clive
Churchill (South Sydney) and
Fleming of St. George. New-
town won a close game with
West’s, but South’s and St.
George both had runaway wins,
usually the case when things are
so that a fullback scores a try.
* * *
Results of two more Heads of
the River: Melbourne’s, rowed
on the Barwon, was won by
Geelong College, last year’s
winner, by a length from Scotch
College ; Adelaide’s, on Torrens
Lake, by St. Peter’s College—
also by a length from Scotch
College.
* * *
Playing in the Victorian pro-
fessional golf title at Long Island
(Melbourne), Ossie Pickworth—
level with Jack Harris after 54
holes —raced away to a two-
strokes win. Pickworth’s card
was made-up of 74, 69, 73, 72
288. E. Naismith was third on
299.
•* * *
Bert Hornby has been boxing
about Sydney for many years,
but there’s plenty fight in him
yet. Era McQuillan has done
a tip-top training job with him,
and, scaling 10.9, Hornby fought
like a two-year-old tiger against
Billy Stanley (10.6|) in the last
Leichhardt headliner. Hornby,
nicely on points; and now he’s
ready to light anyone on deck
for the Australian welterweight
championship, which seems to
be vacant, or at least in dispute.
A sharpshooting puncher from
Wellington (N.S.W.), Stanley
boxed brilliantly, and often beat
the veteran to the punch, but he
did much more defensive than
offensive work, and was always
a bit behind as a points-scorer.
Trailing two or three points
on the score-cards at the 13th
sessidn, Australian and British
Empire welter-champ. George
Barnes solved a problem the
linguists couldn’t when he sat
S’African stousher Benny Nieu-
wenhuizen for three consecutive
counts, got the ref.’s pat, and
kept his Empire title in Johannes-
burg’s Rand open-air stadium.
The challenger had displayed
classy footwork and a nice range
of punches, including a points-
gathering straight-left; but
Barnes, in his bustling, rugged
style, kept at him until the open-
ing came to finish it off.


"One large Beauty-spot"
New Zealand’s Operation Tourist
By MARGARET CLARKE
THE man with the miner’s-
lamp on his forehead
dropped a letter from the
top of the mobile scaffold-
ing. The bus-driver got out and
picked it up and put it in the
mail-bag beside his seat. Then
the man with the lamp went on
with his tap-tapping at the rocky
roof, and the bus lurched on its
way to Milford Sound.
The Homer Tunnel, in which
that incident occurred, began a
new era for Milford Sound when
it was opened to motor-traffic in
1953. Before that you either had
to walk over the 33-mile track
from Te Anau or come in from
the sea. Now there is a five-star
hotel at Milford, shipshape as a
modern liner, and people arrive
in good clothes carrying pigskin
cases.
The motor-trip from Te Anau
Hotel, 75 miles away, takes about
two hours. The track is a three-
day walk, with huts along the
way, food provided, and fires to
dry your clothes. If you come
by sea you are probably on a
cruising liner and probably won’t
come ashore.
Milford and its amenities
epitomise the drive to attract
more and more tourists which
the New Zealand Government is
making. The Minister in charge
of tourism and publicity (Mr.
E. H. Halstead) said not long ago
that Australian tourists were
helping the trade-balance. More
were needed. In 1954 Australia
sold £30,000,000-worth of goods
to New Zealand, but only pur-
chased £8,000,000-worth. If New
Zealand could sell more tourism
the gap would be narrowed.
Last year about 16,000 tourists
visited New Zealand, or about
£2,000,000-worth.
In the next few years, accord-
ing to the Tourist Bureau, New
Zealand plans to double her
tourist-trade. “Package” tours
are proposed; organised parties
from Australia for winter sports.
Three new hotels are to be built
in the Auckland-Rotorua-Taupo
district.
Anyone with cosmopolitan or
sophisticated tastes in food is
likely to get desperate while
travelling in New Zealand. Even
if you stay at five-star hotels you
find that Mother’s Christmas-
dinner every night is mono-
tonous. And if you have to put-
up in one of the lesser taverns
you will get Mother’s Monday-
night dinner.
However, the beds are as com-
fortable as Mother’s best, and
people travelling alone may even
find themselves in a double-
room with a private bath.
Even the shy, backward,
underpopulated South Island can
offer visitors inner-spring mat-
tresses, central-heating, wall-to-
wall carpets, ample wardrobes
and endless hot water. In the
past 15 months the South Island
has doubled its tourist-traffic.
That is because of the direct air-
link between Christchurch and
Sydney. Americans are coming
as well as Australians.
“Americans like round-
tickets,” the manager of the
Christchurch branch of the
Tourist Bureau said.
“It is cheaper to take a vaca-
tion in New Zealand than to
travel about the States,” a man
from Detroit said to me as our
bus made the perilous descent
from the Homer Tunnel to Mil-
ford. “And this’s the prettiest
scenery I’ve ever seen.”
“Pretty” is a quaint word to
apply to a landscape of such
exaggerated Wagnerian propor-
tions, but this American was very
impressed by it. He took a lot
of color-films through the
window, and stopped the driver
several times in the early part
of the trip, before waterfalls had
ceased to be a novelty.
He had a “round” air-ticket
which had taken him from San
Francisco •to Sydney, to Mel-
bourne, to Christchurch, and
would take him on to Welling-
ton and Auckland, to Fiji and
back to the U.S.
Australians take round-tickets,
too. They fly to Auckland, tour
the North Island, then go south
and fly home from Christchurch.
There are two planes a week to
Sydney and one to Melbourne.
Inside New Zealand it is a pity
to fly, unless you have been
before and want to save time. As
the country is one large beauty-
spot studded with super beauty-
spots, the going from place to
place is as important as arriving.
And the scenery changes so fre-
quently that you can’t tire of it.
The Government caters well
for road-travellers. Its big buses
are as comfortable as modern
airliners. They stop for refresh-
ments every couple of hours or
so, and in the South Island they
are centrally-heated. If you are
lucky with your driver he will
also stop to let you take photo-
graphs—no small concession,
considering he is carrying mails
and freight, and picking-up
schoolchildren and local pas-
sengers going short distances.
Everywhere you go in the
South Island you find men
making roads, widening roads,
and altering the course of roads.
For an island with a population
of half-a-million the scope of
the public works being under-
taken is quite astonishing. If you
ask about it you will be assured
that the object is not solely to
open-up the country for the
benefit of tourists, for the South
Islander does not entirely wel-
come the tourist-invasion of his
pre-1914-style peace.
However, the Tourist people
told me of two projected roads
that are primarily for sightseers.
One will cross the Southern Alps
by the Haast Pass, connecting
Lake Wanaka with the Fox
Glacier, and the other will link
Milford Sound with the West
Coast by following the Hollyford
Valley.
At present - , if you are at
Wanaka or one of the other
“cold lakes” and want to visit
Fox or Franz Josef you must
return to Christchurch and then
cross the Canterbury Plains to
Greymouth, virtually crossing
and recrossing the island.
It is also planned to fly winter-
time tourists into Milford Sound.
Now you can only go there
during the three summer months.
For the rest of the year snow and
avalanches make both track and
tunnel dangerous, if not actually
impassable.
If you study a road-map of the
South Island you realise that the
possibilities of the tourist-
industry have barely begun to be
developed. Large sections are
empty of towns or even roads.
Some parts' of Fiordland are
marked “unexplored mountains.”
And you see that Milford is only
one of 13 sounds, or fiords, and
by no means the largest.
Yet it is the only one accessible
by road. Another, Doubtful
Sound, can be reached in about
a day by a track leading from
the head of Lake Manapouri. A
Queenslander I met at Milford
said Doubtful Sound was the
more beautiful. An official
at the Tourist Bureau in
Christchurch agreed, but said
he never advised tourists to go
there, because there were no
hotels, only a hut. He agreed
that the tourist-potential was
stupendous,
“But,” he said, “we should
need a much bigger population
before we even began to think
of opening it up.”
So the deer and the deer-
stalkers will continue to have
the forests and mountains to
themselves, and romantic people
who pore over maps can go on
dreaming their dreams.
Sometimes adventurous people
announce some interesting find.
For instance, about seven years
ago a man poking round South
Fiord, off Lake Te Anau, came
across a wonderful cave. Now
it rivals the famous Glowworm
Cave at Waitomo. in the North
Island, and has waterfalls and
foaming cauldrons of water as
well. Also it gives one a
sensation of being in peril of
one’s life.
Some of the roads do the same.
From Queenstown I went
through Skipper’s Gorge to a
sheep-station lying some 3000 ft.
above sea-level. At a certain
point on the road was a notice:
“Only experienced drivers should
proceed beyond Here.”
A well-advised notice it
proved, for the road is cut along
the mountain on one side of the
gorge. You drive along this
“shelf,” with mountain-face on
one side of you and sheer noth-
ing on the ocher. The road
climbs the mountain-face, and
every time you turn a bend you
feel sure you will-drive over —
into nothing. Your only comfort
is that you were given to under-
stand you would not meet any
oncoming traffic. Then, on a
crest, you come fac.e-to-face with
a truckload of sheep.
The only way to let it pass is
to back in the direction of
—nothing.
However, the scenery is magni-
ficent . . . For the people at the
station this was the road to town.
I think it will be a long, long
time before the aloof and lovely
South Island has the mauled and
pawed and grubby air of a place
that lives by tourism.
Comparisons-Maybe Invidious
Aussies and Enzedders
By HUGH MANN
THOUGH born in Australia,
I have lived many years in
Newt Zealand. There are
many such. Perhaps the
exact figures are available some-
where, but I believe that some
60,000 New Zealanders now live
in Australia and there may easily
be an equal number of Aus-
tralians living here.
New Zealand is a wonderful
place for the Australian, too,
because he can say what he likes ;
no one takes any notice of what
he says, anyway. On the other
hand, the New Zealander in Aus-
tralia is far too polite to say
anything—until he gets home.
Although quietly proud of
“God’s own country,” the New
Zealander is a modest person
in himself. I recently heard a
Welshman criticise this modesty
as indicating a lack of self-confi-
dence, and there is some truth
in the statement, particularly
when one thinks of the almost
blatant confidence of the Aus-
tralian.
The outlook of the two
peoples is strikingly different in
this respect.
The Australian is independent,
ambitious, intolerant of Govern-
mental or almost any other con-
trol, is willing to take a chance
or “give it a go.” He is aggres-
sive—a go-getter —and tends to
admire the successful citizen of
the United States who has made
his own way rather than the
Englishman whose prestige is
based on the accident of noble
birth or of inherited privileges.
The New Zealander is a con-
formist, anxious not to appear
too different from his fellows. He
is not particularly ambitious, and
he accepts the security of the
Welfare State with a sense of
relief. Like the Englishman, he
quietly takes his place in a queue
and accepts the many restrictions
on his personal liberty without
much grumbling. He is much
more truly democratic than his
Australian brother, less class-
conscious, and sends his children
to a State school even if he can
well afford a private school. His
children have their teeth filled
at school by the State Dental
NUrse, and he is glad to be
relieved of the responsibility of
choosing a private dentist for
them.
The New Zealander is not
naturally aggressive (though he
can be roused!), and he regards
the Australian in much the same
dim light as he does the
American. The well-born Eng-
lishman is welcomed without
snobbery or much flattery, and
is made to feel at home.
The confidence of the Aus-
tralian gives vigor and zest and
rapid progress to the country;
the modesty of the New Zea-
lander is reflected in the relatively
quiet, dignified and slow rate
of change. This suits most New
Zealanders, who always want a
very good reason before changing
anything.
New Zealanders still talk
about the depression of a genera-
tion ago as if it was likely to
happen again at any time. This
gives an air of hesitancy to pro-
gress ; so much depends on the
price of wool and butter, and the
constant threat of artificial sub-
stitutes hangs over the country.
It hangs over Australia, too, but
they get on with the job “while
the going is good.”
There are few poor people in
New Zealand ; the mass of the
people are well housed and
clothed (in sober tones). Food is
plain and simple, but abundant.
Family-life is strong, and the
New Zealander will invite you
home to meet the family rather
than take you to an expensive
restaurant. There are no ex-
pensive restaurants anyway.
Australians have a big-
brotherly attitude to New Zea-
land, and speak of “our sister-
Dominion,” meaning, of course,
our rather young and pretty little
sister. New Zealanders distrust
this big-brother attitude and
regard it as typical of the patron-
ising superiority of an older
member of the family.
This family-feeling is also illus-
trated in the attitude of each
country to Britain. The Aus-
tralian has the rather critical and
independent attitude typical of
the adolescent to his parent. The
New Zealander is still tied to
Mother’s apron-strings the
mother-complex is strong in New
Zealand.
Australian art* literature and
even music have developed
national characteristics, but New
Zealand is less venturesome,
although the Maori culture has
some influence.
Physically, the two peoples
are developing along slightly
different lines. It is my belief
that the Australian is tending
towards the long-limbed, slender
aborigine, while the New Zea-
lander is developing the charac-
teristics of the thick-thighed, big-
chested and buxom Maori. This
may be due to climatic condi-
tions or to eating-habits. Signi-
ficantly, Australia has produced
the world’s fastest women
sprinters while New Zealand’s
Rugby footballers are its out-
standing achievement in sporting
fields.
In New Zealand grass grows
all the year round, and as the
very best land is reserved for
racehorses it is not surprising that
New Zealand produces some of
the finest racehorses in the world.
The Maoris called New Zea-
land Aotearoa —the land of the
long white cloud. The warm
summer rains and mild winters
give good pastures and easy
farming. The dry, searing heat
of inland Australia is unknown
in New Zealand. The New Zea-
land of today has also been called
“the land of the long weekend,”
as both Saturday and Sunday are
weekly holidays. It does not
matter, as the grass goes on
growing all the time. “Let the
grass grow” is a popular New
Zealand philosophy.
New- Zealand has wonderful
scenic beauty, particularly in the
South Island, and the drive from
Te Anau along the shores of the
lake and through the Hollyford
Valley to Milford Sound is one
of the finest in the world. It is
so different from anything in
Australia that it should be a great
tourist-attraction for Australians.
The distances today are insigni-
ficant —few people appreciate
that the distance from Sydney to
Christchurch is only about half
that from Sydney to Perth.
Increased trade between the
two countries could be beneficial
to both. The price of Stewart
Island oysters has “rocketed”
from Bd. a dozen to Is. 4d. over
the last 10 years, but pineapples,
when available, are still about
7s. 6d. each. Could a ship with
refrigeration take New Zealand
sea-foods to Australia and bring
back tropical fruit?
Interchange of people and
ideas is even more important.
Each has much to offer the other,
and national fences should bo
knocked down. After all, ouv
differences are only those of
members of the same family, and
the British Commonwealth needs
a family-spirit. When the family
is threatened, its divisions are
forgotten and it acts and thinks
together. The spirit of Anzac
still lives, and perhaps the
Anzians —to coin a name for
people like myself in both
countries —should do more to
foster it.


■
T 1/
.-| ■ • s' ’ •V■* * \
11® M <••' r
*4 , I N*. ;
"" -s?
, ,/•••. , • :
v/g v
;tj*M*\* ?v< a /h
s / ~J. XttV&i-r&i. V-vcT %%<4
Mm m>, :
< 4 /
■.wmm
mem;: s
m
.■ >'-v ;j
\
Ihhemi Inuhoi ■;
mm
BSS*
%£***<* Ays?
&&??***. 9*?:
v.v. :-:- f
y r 'ss%■'%<
• :
/
Now is vintage time. For over three months grapes have been absorbing all
the life-giving properties of the Spring and Summer sunshine in the famous
Barossa Valley of South Australia. They are rich in the vital essentials to
health, and the essence of all is captured, matured and held in a bottle of
CHATEAU TAHUHDA
Effie (shandi£os
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED. N.S.W. AGENTS
DISTRIBUTORS OF FINE SPIRITS FOR 118 YEARS
-"cTTS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIDDLE EAST OIL
“ W HF.N Britain has finished
with her lofty moralisation
about peace and progress in the
Middle East as the goal of an
enlightened policy, she has to
admit that a purely material
interest remains. Nevertheless,
it is an interest of vital signifi-
cance: for it concerns nothing
less than the freedom to move
both in this country [Britain]
and Western Europe.
“Let the oil of the Middle
East fall into the hands of an
enemy in peace or war and an
immobilised Eprope would
hardly need to worry overmuch
whether the Israelis or Arabs
were winning their local war.”
Thus Lord Birdwood, com-
menting in London “Time and
Tide” on the vast supplies of
oil which flow from the Middle
East—where Egypt fans the
cause of-Arab nationalism, and
Saudi Arabia uses some of its
American oil-royalties (nearly
£B6 million last year) for the
same purpose ; where Israel, on
one side, and Egypt and Jordan,
on the other, spit threats of war
across their borders ; where
Britain wrestles near by with its
Cyprus problem and Anglo-
Greek relations ; and where
Communists watch for every
opportunity to keep the brew
simmering. »
As some indication of the
extent of these oil-supplies, “U.S.
News and World Report” notes
that “beyond Jordan are the
richest oil-sands in the world —
often listed as the biggest prize
in the ‘cold-war’ between Russia
and the West”:
“You can measure that prize
with a few figures. In 1920 the
oil-reserves of the Middle East
were calculated at 6000-million
barrels. Estimates in 1956 run
as high as 230,000 - million
barrels. Experts are convinced
that more than two-thirds of the
untapped petroleum of the entire
world lies under the Arabian
deserts.
“The Middle East, which
started producing oil in 1925,
now has an annual output that
exceeds the world’s total pro-
duction of that year. Roughly,
80 per cent, of West Europe’s
petroleum comes from Middle
East wells. And all the desert
oil is handled by Western com-
panies—about 60 per cent,
American, 30 per cent. British,
the rest French and Dutch.”
In a breakdown of Middle
East production, London
“Financial Times” lists the fol-
lowing interests in the various
countries, with their estimated
production for 1955 in metric
tons:
Kuwait Kuwait Oil Co.;
54.8-million metric tons ; owned
jointly by British Petroleum (50
per cent.) and Gulf Exploration
(50 per cent.).
Saudi Arabia Arabian
American Oil (Aramco); 47.6 m.;
Standard Oil California (30 p.c.),
Texas Oil (30 p.c.), Standard Oil
New Jersey (30 p.c.) and Socony
Mobil (10 p.c.). >■
Irak Irak Petroleum Co.;
33.7 m.; British Petroleum (23.75
p.c.), Royal Dutch-Shell (23.75
p.c.), Comp. Franpaise des
Petroles (23.75 p.c.), Near East
Dev. Corp., consisting of
Standard Oil New Jersey and
Socony Mobil (23.75 p.c.), and
Gulbenkian (5 p.c.).
Iran The International
Consortium ; 16m.; British
Petroleum (40 p.c.), Royal
Dutch-Shell (12 p.c.), Comp.
Fran?aise (8 p.c.), Gulf Oil (8
p.c.), Socony Mobil (8 p.c.),
Standard Oil New Jersey (8 p.c.),
Standard Oil California (8 p.c.),
Texas Co. ( 8 P- c *)- A further
eight American companies par-
ticipate in the consortium under
the agreement which enables
U.S. members to transfer up to
one-eighth of their shares,
Bahrein Bahrain Petroleum
Co.; 1.5 m.; Standard Oil Caii-
forma (50 p.c.) and Texas Co.
(50 p.c.).
Qatar Petroleum Develop-
ment; 5.4 m.; owned by the
same combination as the Irak
Petroleum Company.
In an editorial summing-up ot
“l^ se production figures, the
Financial Times comments
that “for the non-Communist
world as whole the Middle
E ast . ern oil-States provided 162-
million tons m 1955, represent-
m § almost one-quarter ot total
consumption :
“Their current contribution to
the rising volume of consump-
tion is even larger than this:
last year they were responsible
for 24-million tons out of a total
increase of some 65-million tons.
“It *is obvious that if this
source of supply were interrupted
the industrial advance of Wes-
tern Europe would be brought
rapidly to a halt. Here perhaps
is the most serious potential
weakness in the structure of the
post-war prosperity of the Wes-
tern world. Its existence is
obvious to others besides our-
selves.
“The Russians plainly are in
no doubt that a small investment
in disruption in this area is
likely to yield disproportionately
large returns. The area is poor,
thinly populated, and its social-
systems are, with occasional ex-
ceptions, archaic. With a small
nucleus of urban intelligentsia
and a desperately-poor class
London "Daily Mail."
HOME TO ROOST AT WESTMINSTER?
making up,the bulk of the popu-
lation, there is plenty of explo-
sive material available for a
whole series of revolutions.
“To a stranger looking at the
situation from the outside, it
must seem a curious paradox
that the industrial societies of
the West should have deliber-
ately made themselves dependent
for their source of basic energy
on Ivhat is the most volatile
political area in the world —with
the possible exception of South
America. The answer is that if
the West wished to grow at the
rate which it has achieved since
the war, then it had no other
choice. And as the process of
growth continues, the possibility
of drawing back from this ex-
posed position becomes more
and more remote.”
Although this delicate situa-
tion justifies some nervousness
about political events in the
Middle East, the “Financial
Times” adds, “so far, at any
rate, in the latest round of
troubles, the bulk of the oil
which the West needs has been
perfectly safe”:
“Two-thirds of the Middle
East’s oil-exports come from
three States which are firmly
aligned with Britain. Two of
them, Irak and Persia [lran], are
members of the Baghdad Pact.
The third, Kuwait —now much
the biggest producer in the area
—is a sheikdom under British
protection. Moreover, each of
these territories could, if there
were an urgent need to do so,
increase its output by substantial
amounts fairly rapidly.
“In Persia the Government
has been asking for an accelera-
tion of production ; and it seems
that the international oil-con-
sortium has agreed in principle
to some increase in output over
the figures laid down in the 1954
agreement. The main limiting
factors at the moment are
markets and capacity for shift-
ing much larger quantities of
crude oil through the port of
Bandur Mashur.
“Kuwait has both the supplies
available and the harbor-facili-
ties to permit a substantial
further increase in exports, in
case of need. In Irak the barrier
at present is the deadlock over
pipeline-dues in the negotiations
with Lebanon. But this deadlock
is a straightforward matter of
striking a commercial bargain ;
political considerations, if they
enter at all, are wholly sub-
sidiary.
“Indeed, among the important
oil-States it is only Saudi Arabia
which at the moment might
appear to pose any kind of
threat to the interests of the
West. There is the further com-
plication here of the U.S. mili-
tary air-base, which the Ameri-
can authorities are naturally
anxious to retain. But there are
other air-bases in the area ; and,
when it comes to it, Saudi
Arabia is neither important
enough nor strong enough to
hold the West to ransom. The
fact that her King is aligned
with Egypt for largely personal
reasons against the Hashemite
family ruling in Irak and Jordan
makes Saudi Arabia less, rather
than more, of a menace.
“The danger does not lie with
the ipdividual State with a taste
for anarchy, as the experience
of Persia showed. A serious
threat couia only arise if these
kingdoms and republics over-
came their personal quarrels and
presented a solid front of hos-
tility to the West. Happily, the
signs of any such solid hostility
are completely absent as yet.”
Singapore's
Communists
London “Time and Tide”
appraisal of the Communist
problem confronting Mr.
Marshall, Singapore’s Chief
Minister:
“Mr. Marshall, who since he
assurned office has refused to
play along with the Communists,
is under tremendous pressure
from the Left. He has two major
problems. First, that out of a
population of 1,200,000, the
Chinese number 960,000 and, as
Mr. Marshall himself has said,
‘the call of blood is strong.’ For
generations the Chinese all over
the world have looked to China ;
today they can look in that
direction with increasing pride as
China emerges as a great World
Power. Secondly, 50 per cent, of
the population of Singapore is
under 20 years of age. When
added-up, these facts are
dynamite.
“For years the Communists
have regarded the schools in
Asia as a crucial battleground,
and in Singapore the outcome of
this is clearly visible. In the
Singapore riots of May and June
last year it was the high-school
students who not only backed the
strikers but incited them and led
them to bloodshed. Not con-
tent to wait until they can
dominate the polls tomorrow,
some of these youngsters are
determined to rule Singapore
today, by terror if necessary.
“If Mr. Marshall is to retain
his leadership and keep control
at all in .Singapore the Govern-
ment must act quickly to take
over the administration ot
Chinese schools. Some of the
‘students’ in the high-schools in
Singapore are graduates ot
Communist universities in China.
In other cases many of the
teachers are trained Communists.
As early as 1947 the first branch-
committee of the Malayan Com-
munist party was established m
the Singapore Chinese High
School, which, incidentally, has
a management - committee o!:
wealthy Chinese merchants.
“The Communist student-
organisation ! now has absolute,
unchallenged authority in the
schools of Singapore. The final
stroke that accomplished this


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-'
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
. DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M DOTJOLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Crunches in all States Agencies in .all Country Centres
VATi
SKitfS
mmm
wmm
Nuffield Universal
Tractor in action,
equipped with a 13-
tyne cultivator. This
is one of the many
"approved-after-test”
matched implements
available that speed
up your work . . a
make it easier.
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS?
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 13.50 x 24 rear and
6.00 x 16 front tyres, costs only
£1,015/18/- (Cap. city).
At this competitive price, your Nuffield tractor
ijacludes ’ this standard equipment: Hydraulic
lift, 3-point linkage, p.t.0., belt pulley, draw-
bar, drawbar extension, seat cushion, canvas
tractor cover, electric starter and horn, head-
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement
Division, Box 13, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range
and “Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
□ Place X in this square if for school project.
light, agricultural rear light, tail and side lights,
heat gauge, hour meter, foot plates, chaff
screens and radiator shutters! (Alternative
magneto ignition can be supplied at slightly
extra cost.)
Other tyre sizes available: 11 x 36R, 6.00 x
19F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x 16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x 18F;
11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies
accordingly in price.)
A
UA/VERSAL TRACTOR
L_
-AS
BMC
KT.36.32
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
f
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUPFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. -LTD.
took place in April last year,
when Lee Tai-tim, a senior
student at the Chinese High
School, publicly expressed him-
self against the Communist ex-
ploitation of the pupils. He was
called out of a class and shot
dead by two youths who got
away. His fellow-students were
too frightened to attend his
funeral.
“The hands of the police, the
majority of them Malays, have
been tied for two reasons. The
Chinese schools are private pro-
perty and the police cannot enter
unless sent for ; and, secondly,
they have to draw a distinction
between Chinese members of the
Malayan Communist party, who
are condemned as terrorists, and
Chinese Communists, whose
Government is recognised by the
British Government.
“Some of the teachers are
eager to back any action which
the Government may take to
remedy the situation. They claim
that ‘the majority of the students
are not Communists and they
would continue their studies in
peace if vicious pressure were
removed.’
“Unless this problem is dealt
with by Mr. Marshall it would
appear that to grant Singapore
independence would be to make
a gift to China of a ready-made
satellite.”
Soviet's London Visit
Press comment on the visit to
London of Messrs. Bulganin and
Khrushchev:
* * *
London “News Chronicle ”:
“However unpleasant the record
of General Ivan Serov, he has
a perfect right as head of the
Soviet security-forces to come
here [to Britain] for discussions
on the safeguarding of Messrs.
Bulganin and Khrushchev. His
vicious, and ugly past does not
have to be forgiven, but his
presence on routine duty must
be accepted.
“To ask that 120 Soviet
security-men be allowed here to
accompany Bulganin and
Khrushchev is another matter,
and it is right that the request
has been promptly rejected.
There are plenty of people in this
country, not only refugees, who
have reason to hate the Soviet
leaders. But it is the special
task of Scotland Yard and our
own security-forces to see that
the couple come to no harm.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” : “His
[Serov’s] coming is a reminder,
if one is needed, that the Soviet
regime still has its oppressive
side. It still employs in the
highest posts people to whom
mass-deportations, labor-camps,
and Arctic prison-settlements are
an everyday business. And the
Soviet leaders are General Serov’s
superiors and share the respon-
sibility for his acts.”
? * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“Economic and political penetra-
tion cannot be accomplished by
the grim-visaged envoys of the
Stalinist period, with their
ominous escorts of secret-police-
men. Now the accent is on
affability and informality, accom-
panied by a line of talk meticu-
lously selected for each country.
It is a technique that should not
be underestimated—but should
awaken Western Chancelleries to
the need for adjusting their own
diplomacy to be able to counter
the stark threat of conquest that
lies behind the smiles and quips
of the roving Russians.”
fi * *
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorial comment: “Personally
Marshal Bulganin and Mr.
Khrushchev can hardly expect
more than frigid politeness: their
behavior in India deserves less.
It will be fortunate indeed if their
visit passes-off without the loss of
such remnants of goodwill as are
still left from the Geneva meet-
ing.
“It must be emphasised again
that the visit will have been
worth while only if, in fact, it
proves an occasion not merely
for re-creating the Geneva spirit
(that has been shown to
be far too evanescent) but for
advancing some measurable
distance towards real agreement
on the three issues over which
all negotiations have hitherto
broken down: free elections in
Western Germany, disarmament,
and closer contacts between East
and West.
“Nothing that has happened
so far suggests that the mere
presence of the Russian leaders
in this country will produce any
change on any of these issues.”
* * *
Malcolm Muggeridge, editor
of “Punch,” writing in London
“Daily Telegraph” : “The Rus-
sians have established what must
be a world-record. Apart from
the Nazi-Soviet Pact, it is diffi-
cult to think of a single treaty,
agreement or undertaking they
have not contravened. And each
contravention has been followed,
on the part of those they have
cheated, by an Enthusiastic
demand for more talks and yet
another agreement. The cheque
bounces, and the higher it
bounces the more eagerly another
is cashed.
“It is on this basis that Mr.
Khrushchev and Marshal Bul-
ganin have been asked here as
official guests of a Conservative
Government. The idea is that,
in private conversation with Sir
Anthony Eden, they will be per-
suaded to relinquish their so-
often-avowed intention of bring-
ing the whole world into the
Soviet power-system, and settle
down to happy coexistence with
non-Communist societies.
“In the light of such hopes as
these Chamberlain at Munich
becomes a sort of Bismarck —
iron-willed and realistic. Bulganin
and Khrushchev have survived in
a regime where only the toughest,
the cruellest, the most cynical,
can hope to survive. A weekend
at Chequers is unlikely to modify
to any appreciable degree their
characters and attitude of mind.
“The disadvantages of the visit
are very evident. All those
behind the Iron Curtain who
have kept alive in their hearts
a spirit of resistance to their
present servitude will inevitably
be discouraged and depressed by
the spectacle of thejr two chief
oppressors being officially
received by the British Govern-
ment.
“Posterity will surely marvel
that the Government of what is
still nominally a Christian
country should, of its own voli-
tion, have seen fit to welcome
two such eminent and experi-
enced persecutors of the
Christian faith.”
Soviet Oil-drill
Reports of a new Soviet oil-
drill with a turbine-powered
bit have included claims that the
drill bores 10 times as fast as
conventional rotary-drills at half
the cost. It is also said to permit
greater exploration of oil-
deposits and the extraction of
petroleum from deposits thought
to be exhausted.
American scepticism about
these claims has, comments
New York “Herald Tribune,”
been somewhat tempered by the
fact that an American company,
Dresser Industries, of Dallas, has
signed a contract with Russia
for the rights to manufacture the
drill in the U.S.
“If the drill is as good as it
is cracked up to be,” the “Herald
Tribune” adds, “it means that
Russian technology, or some
sections of it, is catching up with
the United States in a way that
gives substance to the Kremlin’s
boasts.
“And there is no doubt that
technology will be one of the
great battlegrounds in the con-
tinuing struggle between the two
worlds. • More engineers, more
scientists, greater daring and
imaginativeness in the production
and use of new instruments and
techniques are essential to victory
on that field.”
U.S. Foreign Aid
President Eisenhower’s “Mes-
sage to Congress” on funds for
this year’s, foreign-aid pro-
gramme included requests for
$lOO million for special economic
problems which might arise in
the Middle East and Africa,
another $lOO million to equal
the amount appropriated last
year for Asian economic
development and a further $lOO
million for his own emergency
use.
He also proposed a scheme —
costing about million a
year—giving him authority to
provide economic aid for periods
up to 10 years, the idea being to
encourage long-term develop-
ment-projects in other countries.
Commenting on the proposal,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” notes
that it is “obviously a sensible
One”:
“A country cannot be ex-
pected to launch-out on a costly
long-term project like an irriga-
tion-system, taking perhaps six
years to complete, if there is a
chance of the United States with-
drawing its aid. This is always
possible under the system of
yearly appropriations by Con-
gress. President Eisenhower has
therefore asked for permission
to assist underdeveloped coun-
tries over a period of 10 years,
up to a total limit of $lOO
million in any year.
“The suggested limit has
obviously been inserted to
appease Congress, but it may not
succeed in doing so. Senator
Walter George, a Democrat,
objected in January to putting
up a sign a mile high saying,
‘We’ve got it. Come and get it.
It will last teh years.’
“Senator Knowland, who is of
the President’s party, is also
against the 10-year period. It
was suggested in January that
any foreign-aid bill should con-
tain a clause saying that the
United States expected to con-
tinue its fight against world
Communism until it won.
“The recipients of aid would
thus be given a kind of implied
promise that aid would not be
cut off abruptly. It may be that
this is as far as Congress will
go.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tourists *.
“Badiped’s” ideas about tourists (B.
28/3/’56) wouldn’t work in Australia.
Australia’s tourist-trade has to come a
long way from Africa, Europe and
America. Unless the tourists are com-
bining business or study with fun-and-
games, it’s a long and expensive journey,
unlikely to be made except by the leisured
wealthy.
It would be excellent to cater for a
large influx of not-so-rich tourists, but
from where would we get ’em? From
N.Z.? Although our exchange-rate
favors them, tire Enzedders, like us, tend
to combine study, business and pleasure
in the one big travel-binge of their lives
—to Europe, or America. From Asia?
The only Asians who can afford to travel
are in the restricted wealthy class.
It looks as if we must continue to
earn sterling and dollars from the visits
of executives doing it on the expense-
account, and elderly round-the-world
ticket-holders.
But what about ourselves? A country
nearly as large as Europe takes a lot of
seeing even with modern transport.
What’s wrong with sprucing-up the small-
town hotel and cafe for the home-grown
traveller who is wheeling round the con-
tinent in increasing numbers?
“Badiped” is right in describing the
not-so-rich tourist as the “backbone of
the European tourist-trade,” but that is
only because, in a few days and for a
modest all-in charge, he can visit several
countries and come home besotted with
centuries of culture. Travelling many-
expensive thousands of miles for the
appeal of our space and light ahd subtly-
changing scene is something else again.—
John Hogarth (Vic.).
National Insurance
When, after the Cairns (Q.) cyclone,
I mentioned that Innisfail would lose
about £750,000 gross on cane alone, the
bloke in the bar said, “Those cane-cockies
can afford to lose it—they make a ruddy
fortune every year.”
The cane-cocky may or may not be
able to afford it. If he’s established and
hasn’t the bank on his back he’ll pro-
bably get by. If he’s “into the bank”
it’s another story, and one he’ll probably
have to worry out for himself.
I lost £2oo—a lot of money to me. A
friend at Edmonton (he did a world-tour
in ’54, so I suppose he’s holding) lost
£15,000 gross in flattened pindar. I sup-
pose that’s a lot of money to him. Other
losses range from £5OO to £5OOO, and it’s
a lot of money to the individual in every
case. In the aggregate it’s an enormous
loss to Australia.
Many a farmer who was backing on
having a new tractor this year will over-
haul the one he’s got —and a tractor-
assemblyman in S.A. will be out of a
job. Sugar which should have gone to
the v/harves won’t be there to go and
the wharfies will have something to
whinge about. Migrant cutters won t be
needed to the extent they were last year
—it’s going to take experienced men at
penalty-rates to cut this year’s crop. Ihe
butcher, baker, tailor and even the pub-
lican will know we’ve had a blow.
Fruitgrowers, although their total
losses aren’t so great as those of the
canefarmer, are perhaps harder hit for
the present. They just don’t have any
income for the next nine months, and
someone will have to carry them—if any-
one is willing to carry an already-mort-
gaged fruit-cocky for almost a year.
What can be done? Cairns fruit-
growers thrashed the matter out without
finding a solution. In certain cases of
extreme distress special grants can be
made, but for overall relief there is no
fund.
Floods and cyclones hit the North with
amazing regularity, and one reads of
flood-, fire-, and wind-damage in some
part of Australia every year. And yet
nothing is done about it.
Acting on the advice of a local mem-
ber, the Cairns fruities decided to sup-
port any move to establish a national
insurance-scheme on the lines of that in-
stituted for war-damage. The R.S.L. con-
ference has moved along the same lines.
An idea, such as this must go ahead, be-
cause each “act of God” leaves behind
the few who are literally blown (or
flooded or burned) off the land. The
country just can’t afford it. — Pineap (Q.).
*• -«•
The Call of the Speejacks
The statement by “Fitz” about the
manner in which Dale Collins' got his
start in authorship (B. 21/3 / ’56) takes
me back over the years. “Fitz” says (and
I daresay he’s right) that it was in 1922
that A. Y. Gowen, wealthy American, on
pulling into Brisbane in his yacht
Speejacks looked for a colorful writer to
accompany him, and Collins “got the
job.”
Actually, G<pven first appealed for
guidance to J. R. H. Lewis, bearded and
bustling chief-of-staff of Brisbane
“Telegraph,” and Lewis (probably not
wanting to lose one of his own men) per-
suaded me down to the Speejacks. It
was a trim craft, and the couple of youth-
ful Yanks aboard seemed decent fellows.
So, up to a point, did Gowen. But he was
no philanthropist; his proposal was that
I should not only pull my weight as a
crew-member without pay, but that I
should have only the English and Aus-
tralian rights to any book of the voyage
I might produce, leaving the American
rights to him.
Although the idea of tramping the high
seas had some appeal to a youthful
imagination, Gowen’s proposition struck
me as being a bit tough. I told him and
his wife that I would think the matter
over till next day. Then, back at my
office, I was grabbed by the news-editor
with a proposal for a jaunt to Charle-
ville. Charleville—4oo miles inland! I
"I'll knock and see if he's in."
said, “I’m your man; I’ll catch the train
tonight.”
I don’t know if Gowen (for whom I
left a message) tried-out any other Bris-
bane journalists, but on returning from
the west a week later I learned that he
had telegraphed Theodore Fink of the
Melbourne “Herald,” and Fink had sent
along a young fellow named Dale
Collins.
That is how Collins got the job and
went on the cruise that produced Sea
Tracks of the Speejacks pnd the novel
Ordeal.—A. H. C. (N.S.W.).
S
Children’s Reading
After working with words in publishing-
houses, on newspapers and as an author
most of my life I am now teaching Eng-
“ Say — haven't I seen you somewhere before ?”
lish up to Intermediate-stage in Victoria,
and the children I encounter have cer-
tainly not read anything like the good
material absorbed by students of 20 to
30 years ago.
Whereas the “Gem” and the “Magnet”
and perhaps a comic like “Puck” were
only a very small part of the reading of
yesterday, today’s comics (so-called) and
a mountain of rubbishy escapist literature
form far too great a proportion of the
reading of the modern child.
Boys read this exciting and shoddy
English at a rapid rate. They receive
nothing from the reading other than
momentary excitement. They are reading
too fast to be conscious of language.
They have formed bad reading-habits.
Their vocabulary is small and often they
have been allowed to use too much col-
loquial language in their composition.
Further, a Victorian Intermediate
student is asked to read too many set
authors in one year. It would be far
better to read fewer books well, absorbing
from them all that is beneficial to
language and style. .
Much of the tiresome Victorian-era
literature that bored us in our own day
is still inflicted on the student. More-
over, the selection of poetry for students
at Intermediate-stage in this State (Vic.)
is enough to make me shudder. The same.
old raptures about skylarks and night-
ingales are still inflicted on boys, most
of whom have no hope of ever seeing a
nightingale. Few boys from 12 to 15
have ever seen a skylark. They should
be reading more Australian verse.
I am not Australian-born, but I would
rather my classes recited Harney’s
“ ’Neath a Shady Banyan-tree” (B.
7/3/’56) than descriptions of English
cities or countryside.— Cosmos (Vic.).
Dome of the Chain
The Dome of the Chain (B. 14/3/’56)
is not a mosque; it consists simply of
eight pillars supporting a dome, from the
centre of which a chain was suspended.
It was still there in the early ’twenties, the
links being of cast-iron, not gold.
About 14ft. high and covering about
4 sq.-yds. of mosaic flooring, the
dome was erected in the courtyard of the
Mosque of Omar. It is not a relic of
King Solomon’s Temple—the temple and
all its adjuncts were destroyed long
before the Mosque of Omar was ever con-
templated.
By Islamic law, offenders were
by being stood “under the chain.” If
the chain moved, the culprit was guilty,
evidence notwithstanding. Sited where it
is, the erection caught whatever breeze
happened to blow in its precincts. Con-
sequently the chain was almost perpetu-
ally in motion, and it is recorded that no
one was ever proved innocent. There
is no foundation for stories of a chain of
gold, links dropping-off, etc.
As for most of the legends concerning
the area, personal .study and observation
convince me that at least 90 per cent,
of the history of the city of Jerusalem is
so much rubbish. The old city has been
razed to the ground so many times that
archaeologists say that all but the lower
portions of the Wailing Wall are of later
origin than the Bth century.
The ancient site of Solomon’s Temple
was on Mount Moriah, a .dominating
position overlooking the whole of the
Kedron Valley. When the Mosque of
Omar was built the area was a levelled
plane, known as the Harem el Sherif (the
Noble Sanctuary). Centuries of disaster
had so reduced it that all trace of the
successive temples of Jew, Roman and
Byzantine were swept away.
The Mosque of Omar, with its arcades
and adjuncts, was built in the 7th cen-
tury. This exquisite structure is also
known as the Kubbet el Sakhra (the Dome
of the Rock) because it is supposed to
shelter the rock sacred to Jew, Christian
and Mohammedan alike, this being the
place on which was built the Altar ot
Burnt Offerings. It is also supposed to
have been the threshing-floor of Araunah
the Jebusite, bought by David for 50
shekels of silver. The Rock itself is an
outcrop about 60ft. long by 45ft. broad,
varying in height from 4ft. to 7ft.
Few ancient cities have suffered such
haphazard historical nomenclature as
Jerusalem. At every turn there are names
that seem to go back to the day of
“Kings” and earlier, yet the fact
remains that there is little evidence of
even the Jerusalem of Herod’s time. For
example, the “Tower of David” in the
Citadel, claiming the title of antiquity,
has been proved to have been built by
Herod in Christian times.
The Mosque of Omar and the Dome of
the Chain were the creation of Christian
architects, instructed by the first Mussul-
man Khalif, according to the tastes and
tendencies of Islam. — Eddas (Q.).
“Owning” a Home
I am one of those who had to build a
home (B. 21/3/’56). Being one ef the
landed gentry might boost one’s ego, but
it can be costly. Weekly repayment of
the building-loan is £2 12s. 6d. —“cheap
rent” I’m told from all sides, but the
“rent” does not end there. Add ordinary
rates, sanitary-rates, rates for the Water
and No-sewerage Board, insurance, etc.,
and the weekly payment comes very close
to £4. I have painted the house inside
and out (it’s a weatherboard) at a cost ot
£6O. Other repairs and maintenance have
cost about £2O over four years.
/ The council is just completing kerbing
and guttering, and I’m up for £l5 at
least. Sewerage will be along very soon,
we hope—another £l5O.
Some of these items will not be repeated
and may be regarded as additions to the
capital-cost, but the painting and repairs
will average about £3O a year.
In four years I have paid back to the
financing agent £460. Of that, £BO n
payment off capital and £3BO is f° r
interest. Some day I will own the house
By then I will have paid £7OOO for a home
which cost £3OOO.
That £7OOO would pay the rent ot a
cottage for as long as ever I’m likel> 0
be living in one. The only snag where
would I have got one to rent? R^ NN
(N.S.W.).


Tm convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobacco!'
“For me the Capstan blend has all the qualities
to make my smoking enjoyment complete.
“ Capstan’s otvn blend of fine Virginia leaf
maintains a consistent standard—fine flavour,
fresh fragrance and smooth smoking.”
Ask everywhere for —CAPSTAN
«K 555 550?
' 2
mm
mm
mm
A
WSBWS9& BB3 •• •':
WWX»5«w}»
Sf 3
S§
5^
ft-
feSTc
T
CAPSTAN VIRGINIA TOBACCO
- “ 206D.10.54
Cut out stalling and
you cut down costs
ruff!!?!
m
N|
e
j
,r
1. COMPLETELY SEALED GEARBOX. Precision,
cut gears run in an oil bath, completely
sealed so that dust just can't penetrate.
2. AUTOMATIC (CENTRIFUGAL) CLUTCH. No
levers just works for itself to save you
time in unnecessary engine starting after
blade stalls or jams. Send the coupon for full
details of this new Mobilco guaranteed for
6 months.
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me latest information on the
fuß range of Mobilco JUNIOR Tree Fellers.
Name............................
Add ress
MOBILCO JUNIOR
WITH AUTOMATIC
CLUTCH . . . .
Look at it ... a Saw with one single
control, a throttle lever. This new
Mobilco "C" is the Saw you cannot
stall. As the throttle is advanced fho
clutch engages automatically. When tho
throttle is closed the blade stops auto-
matically, but the engine idles along
gently until you are ready to do
another cut. it does not matter how
often you jam or stall your lilade, the
engine will never stall. This is the
machine you must have if you want to
cut out stalling and cut down costs.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7C with automatic
clutch and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £196, Deposit £9O/9/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR C with automatic
clutch and 5.2 h.p. Howard air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £176, Deposit £BO/8/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR with cone clutch and
5.2 h.p. Mobilco air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £l6B, Deposit £6B.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7 with cone clutch
and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £lB9, Deposit £Bl/19/-.
ALL ABOVE PRICES F.O.R. MELBOURNE, BLADE EXTRA
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONES: YX 1244-5 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES; BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH - - - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
Experience Counts
Road-safety authorities should intro-
duce a few drivers like Mr. Norman
Spencer King, of Burwood (N.S.W.), into
their campaigns. Mr. King, on the road
practically every day, reckons his tally
must be getting on for 500,000 miles over
all kinds of country roads and in all
manner of city traffic, and without mis-
hap worth mentioning. He admits, how-
ever, one black mark in the traffic-court
—a £2-fine when his tail-light went on the
blink some years ago. That is his one
and only encounter with traffic-authori-
ties.
You could say he has had a lot of luck,
but careful driving probably had most
to do with it.
Such drivers are rare, and interviews
with them should make good publicity.
Most of them could drop many good
hints to new drivers. Possibly, as with
Mr. King, some would have definite
codes of their own for road-safety. The
items in his code are anticipation, car-
maintenance, sobriety, physical well-
being.
He puts anticipation first because, as
he says, it “creates caution, and the ever-
cautious driver is automatically observing
the rules of the road and at the same
time is always subconsciously ready for
the fellow who isn’t.” Also “The driver
who cultivates it, quickly learns to keep
his safe distance, and is always on the
alert for side-street traffic and the pos-
sibility of children playing on the road-
side.”
With that bit of road-philosophy alone,
any driver, provided he lived up to it,
could gain greater confidence—the sort
of confidence which enables Mr. King to
think nothing of making, as he did the
other week, a one-day trip, alone, of the
journey from Sydney to Kingscliff
(beyond Murwillumbah), a distance of
600 miles.
And Mr. King is 71. — Frank Snow
(N.S.W.).
Rubbish in the Streets
I understand that the streets of ancient
Rome were kept clean by each citizen
looking after that piece immediately in
front of his own property. Pity we don’t
follow suit.
Most ratepayers seem to think it
beneath their dignity to assist councils by
raking odd papers and other litter in
front of their homes. Many go further
and add to the mess by chucking out
garden and other rubbish for the winds
to disperse into culverts and drains, where
subsequent flooding gives them further
reason for saying that the Council is not
doing a proper job.
Normally, such work is the council’s
responsibility, but if extra men were put
on for this job in an average small town
there would be further moans because
the rates were increased.
High wages, shortage of labor, lazi-
ness and false pride on the part of many
ratepayers are surely making otherwise
pleasant towns look like the council
dumps. It could be avoided by a few
minutes’ work with a rake and one
match. — Ceg (Vic.).
Protecting Wildlife
A reference by “Saaedi” in the
“Aboriginalities” pages to the scarcity of
native pigeons in N. S. Wales Is a timely
reminder of what is happening to many
species of native birds and animals, not
through the activities of New Australians
but through the greed, ignorance and
apathy of Old Australians.
Some interesting species are already
extinct, and others are nearing extinction.
Among the latter is the bustard, or
“plain-turkey,” formerly plentiful on the
grassy plains of almost the whole con-
tinent, but now restricted to a thinly-
populated stretch of country less than
one-tenth the area of the bird’s original
habitat. It has been completely extermi-
nated in many districts where there are
no foxes to hasten the process, and
though it is on the “completely-protected”
list, its destruction by white pot-hunters
and “sportsmen” still goes on.
There are many voices appealing unsuc-
cessfully against the wholesale destruction
of our native flora and fauna—associa-
tions of zoologists, ornithologists, field-
naturalists and others. But there seems
to be very little public or. Government
interest.
Compared with many countries we are
a long way behind in the administration
of our inadequate game-laws, in the pro-
vision of national parks and wildlife-
“Want t' buy any secrets ?”
sanctuaries and in the protection and
care of those that have been set apart.
Canada, with an area one-fifth greater
than that of Australia, has 30,000 square-
miles of Dominion National Parks and
another 30,000 square-miles under pro-
vincial supervision. Its expenditure on
the Dominion National Parks is over
£4 million a year. New Zealand, with an
area only one-thirtieth that of Australia,
has approximately the same area of
national parks as we have—about 5000
square-miles.
In those Dominions, as in the U.S.A.,
South Africa and many European coun-
tries, parks are under the effective care
and protection of trained rangers and
game-wardens, such as we rarely find in
Australia. After the bushfire that wiped
out 100 square-miles of the Wilson’s
Promontory National Park in 1951 it was
stated that no national park in Victoria
possessed a trained ranger with an
adequate knowledge of natural history,
forestry and fire-protection, nor -was there
any provision for training such men.
Not all the States are quite so badly-
off—some of them have a few highly-
qualified men doing an excellent job with
the limited means at their disposal. Most
of our Governments, however, are not
prepared to spend anything near the
amount necessary for the adequate con-
servation and protection of our wildlife,
As well as many of our birds and
furred animals, our estuarian fishes are
in danger of extinction within a few
decades, as fish-protection regulations
seem to be completely ignored by the
majority of anglers in some States-
practically nothing is being done to
enforce the regulations. During the last
seven years I have seen many thousands
of undersized whiting, bream, flathead
and “trevally” (dart) taken from local
beach- and estuary-waters. Never once
have I seen an inspector from the
Fisheries Department,
Many_ enthusiastic schoolteachers and
the compilers of the A.B.C. nature-study
broadcasts to schools are doing what
they can to dispel ignorance, but that
is easy compared with the task of build-
ing a social-conscience that will overcome
the personal apathy and selfishness
responsible for the ruthless exploitation
and ruin of so many of our irreplaceable
natural assets. — Motuku (Q.).


The number of stock
owners who affirm
that they will never
again use any other
method than Elastra-
tor Rubber Rings to
mark and tail lambs
and mark calves is
astonishing. In many
cases strong prejudices
had to be overcome
before they changed
from old inefficient
practices to the clean
hygienic Elastrator
method. But once
the change was made
the results were so
much better in every
respect that the one
regret these converts
now express is the
regret that Elastrator
Rubber Rings were
not in use in the early
days of stock raising.
JOHN CHARLTON & CO.
71 Sailor’s Bay Road,
Northbridge, Sydney.
LEATHER SAFARI JACKET
I
m
H
m
-
r
ap
=V>^“
&2
--'-C
Made from the very best Top
Grain Hide
• Fully lined. O Action back. • Two
Zipp Breast Pockets. • Two large Flap
Pockets. • One inside Pocket. • Belted
waist. • Adjustable Cuffs.
Size 3 4 5 6 7 8
Chest 34in. 36in. 38in. ,40in. 42in. 44m.
Price —
Check lined £9/19/6
Fleecy Lambswool lined
Double breast £l6/10/-
With detachable Lambswool
lining £l7/17/6
Best
Mineral
Supplement
*
p
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricafcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
OM-
V>\
t oVv*'
sreß"-'
fW**’
W 7.
STERILISED „
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular i gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O Box JSS3,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 7SBK. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK &-STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE idea of soil-conservation
in Australia is actually so
new that I can remember its
being mentioned as a conception
novel and radical round about
1930 by Mr. Len Judd, at that
time manager of the Temora
Experimental Farm (N.S.W.).
He expressed the opinion that
some of our farming-land was
“losing heart” (there was no
term then for declining fertility),
and that it might be worth con-
sidering the advisability of
giving it a rest, now and then.
He didn’t, at that time, connect
the development of water-worn
gutters in wheat-paddocks (we
hadn’t heard the word “erosion”
then) with the decline in
fertility; that was regarded as a
purely mechanical process, due
to excessive rains at inopportune
periods.
At about the same time we
began to hear warnings about
erosion from another Depart-
ment of Agriculture officer, Mr.
E. S. Clayton, who has come to
be an important figure in soil-
conservation circles.
It would, of course, be
extremely reckless of me to
suggest that these were the first
two men to worry about erosion
and loss of soil-fertility; un-
doubtedly other men in other
districts had been thinking and
talking about it. But it is signi-
ficant that investigations made
at the head-office of the Soil
Conservation Service in Sydney,
with the assistance of a number
of obliging officers, failed to
reveal any documentary evidence
of interest in land-deterioration
before 1932.
At that time, it is recorded,
Mr. R. S. Vincent, M.L.A.,
Minister for Mines and Forests,
real concern about
the challenge of floods, unwise
land-use and erosion to the
State’s natural resources.”
In an interview, I found the
Minister, Mr. Enticknap, to be
a keen man with a sound know-
ledge of the working of his
department.
Awake to the urgency of
educating landowners in soil-
conservation matters, he indi-
cated demonstrations by the
service in strategic areas of the
State; field-days for the public
and for schools at soil-research
stations; officers available to
schools during Conservation
Week; the journal of the Soil
Conservation Service (a valuable
publication, though some of the
conservationists contributing to
it are gradually evolving a
technical jargon of their own,
which in a few years will be-
the fact that they are still in
force seems to be a confirmation
of their value.
However, since they applied to
Crown Lands tenures only, and
seemed to be concerned with the
higher sections of the State and
catchment-areas in particular,
they left a vast area untouched.
After that, progress for a
time seems to have been very
slow.
In 1935 another inter-
departmental board was
appointed the Catchment
Areas Board, which, for reasons
not specified, never sat. And
even when, some years later, k
was superseded by another
similar board the going was not
almost as incomprehensible to
the average farmer as the
B.M.A.’s medical journal is to
the layman); the service book-
lets and handouts to press and
radio; documentary - films
widely distributed, especially to
schools to make the younger
generation conservation-minded
(he gets hundreds of letters from
children, he told me, and he is
sure that, having interested the
children, he is influencing the
parents, too).
Asked about the rather deli-
cate situation where landowners’
bad land-use constituted a
menace to farms situated farther
down the slopes, he informed
me that he had the legislative
power to have such farms
declared erosion-hazards, and to
compel remedial measures to
check the damaging run-off.
However, these powers had
never been invoked. His field-
officers had instructions to use
persuasion; to point out the
benefits in higher production
and increased land-value which
corrective measures would bring
to the owner; to hire earth-
moving-plant and -operators at
an economical rate; to arrange
finance to cover cost of opera-
tions, where necessary; and
even, where the urgency of the
work and its value as an example
to neighbors justified it, to
undertake the conservation-
work at the department’s
expense as a demonstration.
Actually, their experience was
that they were more likely to be
embarrassed by the eager than
the reluctant ones; field-staff
were finding it impossible to
cope with applications for advice
and assistance; so far, land-
owners controlling six-million
acres had had soil-conservation
mechanical measures under-
taken on their properties.
The service has six research-
stations ; at Inverell, Gunnedah,
Wellington, Cowra, Wagga and
Scone ; each in an area where
the erosion problem is critical,
and each station originally a
property where the land was in a
state of virtual ruin.
The restoration of these
places has been an object-lesson
of immense value to the
districts, quite apart from the
other research-work being done.
In addition, conservationists
are stationed at 46 other country
centres. In all, over 400 work
for the service, and the cost of
running it is half-a-million a
year.
But it didn’t start like that in
1932 . . .-
In 1933 a Cabinet sub-
committee, consisting of Minis-
ter for Mines and Forests R. S.
Vincent and Minister for Lands
E. A. Buttenshaw, arranged for
the establishment of an Erosion
Committee (a non-legal but
advisory body). This committee
consisted of H. B. Mathews,
surveyor-general of the Lands
Department (widely experienced
in land-settlement and land-use
problems), A. Morrison, hydro-
graphic-engineer of the Water
Conservation and Irrigation
Committee (who had for many
years displayed considerable
interest in the preservation of
catchment-areas of the principal
dams of the State), E. S. Clayton,
of the Department of Agricul-
ture, and B. U. Byles, of the
Forestry Commission.
The most positive work of this
committee was to draw up a set
of conditions for inclusion in
Crown Lands tenures, mainly
dealing with the preservation of
timber along creeks, rivers and
watercourses and on hilltops. In
the light of subsequent experi-
ence, these conditions indicate
commendable forethought, and
“I know it's a bad drought, Bernie, but you re TOO
soft-hearted .”
at all smooth. According to the
minutes, the first meeting of this
body spent most of the time in
a discussion in which the various
representatives made it plain
that they were mainly concerned
that the new board should not
encroach on the rights or inter-
fere with the policies of their
particular departments.
In 1937 Mr. Vincent directed
the original Erosion Committee
to prepare a draft-bill to deal
with the erosion problems of the
State. This resulted in the Soil
Conservation Act of 1938, which
started the beginnings of the
Soil Conservation Service as we
now know it.
Prior to the passing of the
Act, E. S. Clayton had been sent
abroad to study conservation-
methods in the U.S.A., and after
it came into force he was
appointed first director and then
commissioner of the service.
Under his control it has grown
to be an important factor in the
life of a great number of
farmers.
The full picture of the scope,
volume and variety of the Soil
Conservation Service is given in
its annual report. This docu-
ment is distinguished by an
immaculate anonymousness; in
the whole 9f its 88 foolscap
pages not one name is men-
tioned ; not even the name of
the Minister in charge of the
department. It is full of tables
of statistics which would make
heavy going in an article such
as this, but to a man with a
reasonable knowledge of the
soil-conservation problems of the
State they have a considerable
interest.
While reading it I could see
the hundred-odd earnest and
enthusiastic . conservationists
sweating over their dumpy-
levels in every part of the
State; being persuasive and
tactful with landholders reluc-
tant to admit the extent of their
soil’s deterioration, or uneasy
about the possible cost of restora-
tion ; devising new systems to
revitalise impoverished soils;
getting ruthless croppers to sow-
down their acres to pastures;
trying to instil that sort of out-
look which values fertility in the
soil more highly than money in
the bank or luxurious new
motor-cars.
The record of farms restored
made me think of farmers I
know who had been desperately
worried over the condition of
farms which represented the life-
work of several generations and
who are now at ease and happy,
with a new pride in their farms
and their security assured.
E. O. Schlunke.
(To be concluded next week)
Fruit-fly in W.A.
“M.F.Di”: I was interested to
read (B. 21/3/’56) that the fruit-
fly is attacking tomatoes in
Western Australia. It will be a
tragedy if the pest ever gets a
strong hold in the Geraldton
district, about 300 miles north of
Perth, which annually produces
about £250 - million - worth of
tomatoes for the Australian and
Singapore markets.
A few years ago, when I was
in Geraldton in June, which is
about the height of the tomato-
harvesting there, I remarked to
the manager of the packing-sheds
that he was fortunate to be
gathering such a fine disease-and-
pest-free crop.
“What did you expect to find
wrong with it?” he asked.
Told that tomatoes in the
eastern States were often
attacked by fruit-fly, he called his
foreman and explained light-
heartedly that I was trying to
“put over” the yarn that the
fruit 7 fly was ravaging tomatoes
around Sydney. The equally in-
credulous foreman looked at me
and remarked, “Never heard of
it before. It’s not likely we shall
ever be troubled here.”
I told him I hoped not, and
left it at that. Now that the pest
has been discovered in the State
it will be a miracle if Geraldton
escape 0
Lobelia
“Goulburn Valley”: Milky
lobelia, or poison pratia (Pratia
erecta ), worries sheepmen in the
Goulburn Valley and other
districts of Victoria. It’s a low-
growing plant with small leaves
and a five-point star-shaped blue
flower about iin. in diameter. It
favors wet places in heavy clay-
soils.
Sheep seem to be fond of the
plant, especially when it’s in
flower, and are not adversely
affected by it while quietly
grazing. But trouble comes
quickly when, say, mustering for
fly-strike treatment, or droving
to yards or to a different
paddock, causes the sheep to take
violent exercise. The use of a
too-keeq dog can mean disaster.
An apparently healthy sheep
will suddenly rear and fall, and
in a few minutes will be dead.
Several more in the mob are
likely to be affected at the same
time. Hundreds of sheep are lost
in this way every year, and
owners are very reluctant to
disturb mobs when they know
the plant'is prevalent. This, in
turn, leads to loss through the
absence of necessary treatment.
Most owners in lobelia-
districts take great care to handle
their sheep as quietly as possible,
but in spite of these precautions
losses still occur. These are
mostly accepted as inevitable, but
the simple fact is that with
suitable treatment there need be
no losses at all.
The whole trouble is caused by
an alkaloid lobeline in the plant
which affects the respiratory
centre in the brain, with a con-
sequent cessation of breathing.
The answer is artificial-respira-
tion. Draw the sheep’s tongue
out and secure it with an elastic-
band. Stand behind the sheep
(which is lying on its side), take
hold of the hind-leg and draw
it well back, putting your foot on
the sheep’s ribs behind the
shoulder, and press down fairly
hard, both with your foot and
the hind-leg, which now has been
brought forward. Then release
the pressure and draw the hind-
leg back again.
This pressing and pulling
should be continued for 20
minutes, if necessary usually
two or three minutes will do the
trick. As soon as there is sign
of life, pifck the sheep up and
hold it between your legs with


Research in Industry
No. 23 in a Series
a©
Suttpitt
Water where it is wanted
From ancient times, the land of Greece has been noted for its
abundance of good springs and streams, and thus the problem of
adequate and convenient water supplies does not arise. Other lands,
however, are less fortunate in that water resources are less plentiful,
the climate in winter months being extremely cold, and the nature of
the soil exceptionally corrosive. In such circumstances, the problem
of transporting adequate supplies of non-contaminating water for
stock and agriculture to where it is wanted presents some difficulties.
With the discovery of polythene, a plastic which has a great
variety of uses, ICI has made possible a new piping specially suited
for use in cold water services. This non-metallic polythene piping
is particularly useful for agricultural purposes of all kinds in that it
is not affected by low temperatures, has exceptional resistance to
corrosion, is simple to install with standard pipe fittings, and is light,
strong and flexible.
Because of these advantages over traditional materials, polythene
piping is being increasingly used for rural water supplies, and is yet
another example of the industry’s contribution to the
agricultural industry for the betterment of man and animal alike.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
.303S'
The "FARMERS' BOY" fw a N ’ s pl £
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous “FARMERS’ ROY”
SERIES II STEPPED-AXLE PEOUGH
consisting of 22 x 4in. metal cleated wheels, heavy
plough beam, fully adjustable disc coulter, breast
share, landslide and the UNIQUE STEPPED AXLE
which keeps the machine level when ploughing. The
lower wheel rides in the completed furrow, the stepped-up wheel on
the higher ground not yet ploughed, the correct balance thus ensuring
full application of the GEARED STRENGTH of the FARMERS’ BOY.
Write or telephone pour nearest State Distributor for free particulars and for
demonstrations of The Farmers’ Bop Series II and The Farmers’ Bop Major.
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., 115 York St., Launceston.
W.A.: WESTERN MACHINERY Co. Pty. Ltd., 494 Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO. Pty. Ltd., 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
WANTED
*
for a unique
WORLD-WIDE TOUR
combining business and pleasure in the
most original way
Visit King Ranch and other famous sfock and
agricultural centres, the world-famous Palermo
and Montevideo Cattle Shows and fabulous
pleasure resorts
THE TOUR WILL BE CONDUCTED BY
MR. LIONEL KRONE, SENIOR STUD
STOCK REPRESENTATIVE OF AUSTRALIA'S
PRINCIPAL WOOL AND LIVESTOCK
JOURNAL, "THE PASTORAL REVIEW."
Come to the exotic countries of South America.
See the United States, the West Indies, Great
Britain and Continental Europe, Greece, Turkey,
India and Singapore.
Whatever your interests—cattle-raising, sheep farming,
horse-breeding, racing, polo—here is the opportunity
of your lifetime. Join with us and increase your know-
ledge of new methods, meet experts and people of
note in your own line, and see the lighter side of life
in the' fascinating clubs and casinos of two hemispheres.
CUT OUT THIS COUPON AND POST NOW
Australian International Travel Pty. Ltd.,
22 Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, your Free _ Brochure
for the July South American World Tour, 1956, giving the
full Itinerary and arrangements, together with all financial
details.
NAME
ADDRESS .
6251
its four feet touching the ground,
and pull out its tongue as far
as possible.
Very soon after this treatment,
the sheep will bound away
thoroughly recovered: sheep-
owners who know of it rarely
lose a sheep.
It has been suggested that an
injection to stimulate the respi-
ratory centre, such as caffeine,
might have the desired effect, and
if so would be very useful where
a number of sheep are affected
at the one time, which is often
the case.
Autumn Pests
“Jethro”: Autumn rains,
which stimulate good autumn
crops of pasture, also bring along
insect-pests, including the cock-
chafer-grub, red-legged earth-
mite, and the underground grass-
caterpillar.
In early autumn 2oz. of
lindane an acre in the normal
dressing of superphosphate will
control the cockchafer. Later,
4oz. of lindane to the acre is
needed.
Lindane —4oz. an acre in the
super.—will also control the red-
legged earth-mite if it is applied
after the insect has hatched. If
topdressing cannot be delayed
until two to three weeks after
the autumn break (with conse-
quent risk of not being able to
get heavy machinery on to the
paddocks), go ahead and spread
neat super.; wait until the mite
hatches, then use the boom to
spray 4oz. of D.D.T. to the acre.
Lindane and D.D.T. are much
easier to use and more effective
than the old recommendation of
spreading a band of creosote
around a paddock to keep the
mite out.
D.D.T. is also recommended
against the underground grass-
caterpillar. Spread 12oz. to lib.
of it to the acre, with the super.,
before grass species are' eaten-
back too hard as winter
approaches. Other insecticides
are effective, but none is as good
as D.D.T., taking economics
into account.
Deep-litter
“Sundowner”: Deep-litters in
poultry-sheds should be renewed
about now, otherwise there will
not be sufficient build-up before
the winter sets in.
To establish a deep-litter, begin
with 4in. to 6in. of straw, wood-
shavings, sawdust or dry seaweed,
and add to this each month until
the end of winter.
Results will not be successful
unless a minimum of 3 sq.-ft. is
allowed for every bird in large
sheds and 4 sq.-ft. in smaller
pens. In wet, hilly districts this
minimum should be raised to
5 sq.-ft.
Pink-eye
“Skeewa”: On pink-eye,
“Brolga” (B. 29/2/’56) says to
disregard kerosene as a cure
because it is “aggravating and
cruel.”
I am game to bet that “Brolga”
has never used kerosene. I have
been using lighting-kero, for sore
eyes in animals and humans for
the past 50 years. Only, yesterday
I used kero, for an apparent cold
in the eye. The eye is much
better today. Kero, does not
aggravate—it is quite soothing.
I know the eye is a delicate
organ, and “Brolga’s” recom-
mended cures may be quite all
right—but you can’t always get
them when you’re on the Birds-
ville Track.
Improved-pastures
“Agricola”: Farmers on the
Darling Downs (Q.) are planting
more improved-pastures than
ever before. High cost of culti-
vating annual fodder-crops is the
reason. Large fuel- and seed-
bills, plus depreciation on
expensive machinery, have
raised production-costs to the
point where something had to be
done. Soil-erosion is making
serious inroads on land con-
stantly under the plough.
The pasture most favored is
that containing a mixture of
green-panic, lucerne and sub-
clover. An alternative is green-
panic, lucerne and Rhodes-grass,
with a “shot-gun” clover mixture.
These pastures are perennial,
and so overcome cultivation-crop
costs. They are a better-balanced
food than any single crop, and
the legumes help rejuvenate
exhausted soils. Planting-costs
are reasonable, and the increased
production of milk or cream
more than justifies the initial
outlay.
Pruning
“Cloud y”: Saw - pruning
should be done in autumn and
late summer, not left till winter
and spring, when pruning is
usually carried out. Reason is
to avoid wood-rot, which is
becoming more prevalent.
Wood-rot is a disease which,
in nearly all cases, is caused by
fungi-spores which drift in the
wind. These lodge in open
wounds and poison the sap-
stream. More of this fungi is in
the air during winter and early
spring.
Take these additional pre-
cautions : don’t prune heavily
unless it. is necessary, keep the
size of the cuts as small as pos-
sible, and protect them with
grafting-wax, bitumen or
weatherproof-paint.
Pig-feed
“W.C.Q.”: Two very good
crops for the Queensland pig-
raiser are arrowroot and Jeru-
salem-artichoke. Arrowroot is
a member of the canna-family;
but doesn’t need the very damp
conditions which suit the garden-
canna. It thrives on the most
indifferent soils, but naturally
yields better on fair country with
ample moisture.
Once established, it becomes a
fixture, resisting plough-outs and
rooting by pigs. The roots or
tubers can be planted in rows
about 3ft. apart, and the spaces
worked with implements.
The artichoke belongs to the
sunflower-family; some people
who have little time for garden-
ing plant a few of them to pro-
vide flowers. The tops can be
cut and dried for hay. The
plants are very prolific when
established, and conditions must
be tough indeed to make them
die-out. Plant about scwt. of
tubers to the acre. Crops can be
grazed by pigs, or some of the
roots lifted as needed. They
keep better in the ground.
Crosscuts
Clanville Lady Butterfly VIII,
Dairy Shorthorn cow owned by
David Weston, Newstead
Grange, near Nottingham
(UJG), gave 4021 gals. of milk in
555 days—claimed to be a world-
record for the breed.
* * *
“If Australian experience
parallels that of the United
States, margarine will become a
major item of consumption here,
but the development will be
gradual.” (Alan G. Lloyd in an
article on butter and margarine
in “Review of Marketing and
Agricultural Economics.”)
Same: “In Australia only a
short period has elapsed since
the use of margarine as a table-
spread was generally considered
a social and nutritional faux pas.
For pensioners and large families
in the low-income groups, the
savings possible by substituting
margarine for butter are signifi-
cant. A family of five, consum-
ing the average quantity of
butter, can thereby save ss. 3d.
per week, and in the absence of
the butter-subsidy this figure
would rise to 7s. Id. A marked
traditional consumer-preference
nevertheless operates in favor of
butter, and may persist strongly
in the future.”
Same: “The quality of Aus-
tralian butter is another import-
ant consideration. There is
evidence of a decline in quality
of recent years. It is extremely
important for the dairying-
industry, in competing with
margarine, that this trend be
reversed. Over a period 1946-47
to 1952-53 93 per cent, of New
South Wales butter was officially
graded as choicest; this figure
fell to 83.3 per cent, in 1953-54
and 79.8 per cent, in 1954-55.”
* * *
“C.A.A.”: The first wheat
sown from the air last season
in the Victorian Wimmera has
produced six bags to the acre.
It was sown from a height of
between 20-60 ft. on to the
property of A. Johns, near
Horsham, during August—much
later than the usual Wimmera
crop. Research-officers claim
that the experiment proved
aerial sowing is economic in wet
seasons. At time of sowing, the
40-acre paddock was partly
under water. The cost was
between 7s. and Bs. an acre,
compared with 6s. an acre by
normal methods. Two problems
are inability to light-harrow
after sowing to kill weeds, and
uneven distribution of seed.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(8/4/’56)
General rains should fall in most of Queensland during
May, although the south-west and far-western division are
likely to have only light rains. Further heavy falls are
likely on the northern coast.
Light, patchy rains should be experienced in m'ost of
N.S.W. during May. There should be moderate rains on the
N.S.W. North Coast and on the northern tablelands and
n.-w. slopes and plains. June and July rains likely to be
above normal, and widespread flooding may occur in the
the western division during July.
In Victoria general rains should commence in May; a
possibility of severe frosts in the latter half of May.
Apart from light rains in the Murray Valley and
northern interior, general rains should be recorded in most
of South Australia during May.
The south-west agricultural areas of W.A. should
experience general rains in May, with heavy falls between
Perth and Bunbury. Good rains should occur in part of
West Gascoyne, but light elsewhere and mainly dry in
the North.
LENNOX WALKER.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government. Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKsors
osumjvaju /
jTtIJD. „
TRADE
MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
P ty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New ¥ork
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSER'!
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
'Jeiegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
t
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatically t
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN IN ST AL IT! The simple instruction card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE .NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-SO Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore:
N.Z.:
N. Guinea :
- »DISTRIBUTORS : '
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The valley,
Brisbane. ~
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C-M.L. Building, lung
William St., Adelaide.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (W.A.), 349 William St., * ®“h' .
Hygeia Dissolvenator ' (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Mel-
bourne ; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also
Launceston, Tasmania.
C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
Global Agencies, James Building, Cutlibertson St., Port Moresby.
eat much breakfast usually—
and he took it into their bed-
room. He brought out the tray
after a while and washed-up.
He’s had plenty of practice at
washing-up, even if he can’t
cook.”
“What’s so queer about that?”
“I’m coming to that. After
I’d dressed Jimmy and the baby
I took them up to the shops at
the corner. Jimmy and old
Davenport have really taken a
fancy to each other. Well, when
I got back Davenport said his
wife had been called away
suddenly to Melbourne, where
her sister has been taken ill. He
doesn’t know when she will be
back.”
Tom stared at his wife
incredulously. “Just like that!”
he cried. “She’s too crook to
get the breakfast and within an
hour or so she’s dressed, packed
and off to Melbourne for an
indefinite stay. Just like that.”
Jo looked troubled. “It is
queer, isn’t it?” she agreed.
“If you want to know what I
think, I’ll tell you,” announced
Tom savagely. “I think he
has”
Jo interrupted him quickly.
“It’s a very comfortable house,
Tom, and we’re very lucky to
get it for £2 10s. a week. Why
don’t we mind our own business,
Tom?”
“Yeah, that’s all very well,”
cried Tom. “But you can’t
escape the conclusion that” ——
“The conclusion I can’t
escape, Tom, is that we’ve got a
roof over our heads and that if
we lose it we might have a lot
of worry and trouble before we
get another. We have two small
children to consider.”
“I guess you’re right,” agreed
Tom grudgingly. “He seems to
be a decent little bloke from
what you say. Perhaps we’d
better let sleeping dogs lie.”
They walked thoughtfully up
to the front-door.
TNSIDE they found Jimmy
-*• romping boisterously on the
carpet with Davenport, who got
to his feet with a sheepish grin.
“That’s a fine boy of yours,”
he said deferentially. “I’ve
never had any kids of my own.
Always wanted them, but it’s too
late now.” His grin faded.
“On account of my age, I mean.
Our ages, in fact; you wouldn’t
expect middle-aged people like
us to have youngsters.
“That’s why he’s taken, to you
so much,” said Jo quickly.
“You remind him of his
granddad—my father, you know.
His grandfather spoils him, I’m
afraid; he thinks the sun shines
out of his eyes.”
Davenport chuckled delight-
edly. “Well, what d’you know! ”
he exclaimed. “Remind
him of his granpop, do I? He’s
a bonzer little kid. We’re going*
to get on fine.” He looked up
at Tom and smiled pathetically.
“I hope you will stay here a long
time, mister ; life hasn’t been fun
here for a good while now.”
He got abruptly to his feet
and left the room. They stared
after him in silence.
Presently Tom said casually,
“What’s he going to do about
his meals while his wife’s
away?”
“I was wondering about that
myself,” said Jo eagerly. “I was
thinking perhaps we should ask
him if he’d like to eat with us
for a while, if you don’t mind.
While I’m cooking for four I
might as well do it for five ; it’s
no more trouble. It would be
convenient for him and we could
easily make some arrangement
about the money.”
“Good idea of yours,” said
Tom. “Wish I’d thought of it
myself. I’ll go and ask him.”
6 6 neighbor,”
Tom called out to the
man digging on the other side
of the garden-fence.
The man stopped digging and
wiped his brow with the back of
his hand. He took his pipe
from between his teeth and
nodded cheerfully at Tom.
“Neighbor, you say? Then
you must be living there?”
“That’s right,” said Tom,
walking over to the fence. “My
name is Brady, Tom Brady.
We moved in yesterday. Mr.
Davenport has let us have two
of his rooms.”
“My name’s Bill Robertson.
Glad to meet you.” They
shook hands. “I must say I’m
surprised. The Daveffports have
lived next-door to us for close
on twenty-years and they’ve
never let rooms before. The
old girl only lets Bob in the
house on sufferance, so I’m sur-
prised she has taken-in lodgers.
She must be slipping.”
“It was a bit involved,” said
Tom. “They didn’t really mean
to let rooms, but we came here
inquiring and I think, they felt
sorry for us.”
“Wonders will never cease!”
Robertson laughed shortly.
“That’s the first time in her life
she has ever felt sorry for any-
one.” He stopped and looked
slightly uncomfortable. “I
shouldn’t be talking like that, I
suppose. It sounds spiteful.
But you’ll find Ma Davenport’s
about as popular round here as
a dose of arsenic. People just
don’t take to ber at alk she’s
made Bob Davenport’s life
absolute hell. We hear it all,
you see> » he exp i a ined, “living
next-door. She doesn’t trouble
j ower h er voice when she’s
raging at him »
“We haven’t actually met her
ye t,” said Tom. “From what
everyone says I don’t think I’ll
be looking forward to it, either,
She’s gone to Melbourne to look
af,er :m a ‘ Ung SiSter ” - *
Robertson blinked. "Gone to
Melbourne,” he echoed, “to
i 0 after an ailine sister? I
didn’t know she a sister.”
He frowned thoughtfully.
“Oueer ”
“Well here comes Mr Daven-
port now,” said Tom, nodding
towards the house. “You can
ask him about il ’ We iuSt
going up to the pub for a beer.
Why don’t you come along?”
The expression on Robert-
son’s face was comical to
see ; he had forgotten all about
the ailing sister in the face of
this new development. “Did
you say Bob was going up to
the pub for a beer?” he asked
incredulously. “Bob? To have
a beer?” He stared at the
approaching Davenport in
disbelief.
“How are you, Bill?” asked
Davenport.
“You going up to the pub?”
asked Robertson.
“Sure. Why not?” . said
Davenport, and winked
solemnly. “When the cat’s
away, you know.” He put his
hand on Tom’s arm. “Come on,
Mr. Brady. Let’s go.”
Mr. Davenport threw back his
shoulders proudly and walked
up the path followed by Tom.
They heard Robertson calling
excitedly to his wife, “Liz,
you’ll never guess what’s
happened. Bob is going up to
the pub. Yes, Bob Davenport.
Sure, I’m sure. Come and see
for yourself.”
A S darkness was falling
Davenport opened the front-
door and found Tom waiting for
him in the hall. Tom was
'nervous as a kitten and after
meeting Davenport’s cheery
greeting with a morose grunt, he
followed him into the lounge.
“You don’t look very pleased
with yourself,” said Davenport.
“What’s the matter?”
Tom sank wearily on the
settee and studied his shoes.
“Where’s Jimmy?” asked
Davenport gaily. “He’s usually
waiting to see what I’ve brought
him. I don’t think Mrs. Brady
quite approves of my bringing
him lollies and things; she
thinks I’m spoiling him. Where
are they all, anyway?”
“I sent them all along to her
father’s place to spend the
night,” said Tom. His next
words were studied and deliber-
ate. “I thought it best to get
them out of the way.”
Davenport’s eyes narrowed
and his face turned grey.
“Why was it necessary to get
them out of the way?” he asked
huskily.
Tom drew in his breath and
let it out again in a deep sigh.
Then he thumped the arm of the
seat with his clenched fist
viciously.
“I thought you might have
guessed,” he said bitterly. “I’ve
been gardening.”
Davenport dropped his eyes.
“I’d guessed,” he conceded
wearily.
“Jo is so softhearted and
Jimmy seems to be pretty keen
on you, so I had to get rid of
them for a while. Jimmy is at
an impressionable age and I
couldn’t risk him seeing any-
thing.”
“I understand,” said Daven-
port softly.
“Damn it all, man,” said Tom
irritably. “You surely didn’t
expect to get away with it with
her like that? She’s barely
covered with soil.”
“I didn’t have much chance to
do anything else, did I?” asked
Davenport abjectly.
“But it’s four days since we
came here,” protested Tom.
“You just shouldn’t be allowed
out by yourself. You could
have thought of something.”
Davenport shrugged his
shoulders miserably but said
nothing.
“You must realise I can’t leave
things as they are,” said Tom.
“I’ve got Jo and the kids to
think of. I can’t merely ignore
the fact that she is lying out
there dead.”
“I understand that,” said
Davenport. He gave a weak
little smile and rose to his feet.
“I’m ready. Let’s get it over
with.”
» “Good man,” said Tom
approvingly. “Let’s get moving
then.” He rose purposefully.
“I’ll just get my hat and coat
and then I’m ready,” said Daven-
port.
“Oh, you won’t need those,”
said Tom. “You’ll be warm
enough digging. We’ll have to
bury her at least six-feet deep.
I hope you don’t think me inter-
fering, Mr. Davenport, but if
you got sent to jail we’d be
looking for rooms again. I’ve
got to think of Jo and the
children.”
He rubbed his chin reflec-
tively. “I wonder where we
could get hold of a couple of
bags of quicklime?”
and tourist that twelve miles is
the accurate distance:
It’s ninety years ago today —
My, how the time flies by!
Since I bogged my bullock team
Twelve miles from Gundagai;
Some youngsters put it into verse
And mentioned Blue the dog,
But at the twelve-mile peg, 1
know,
For I was in the bog.
It is in a friendly spirit, be-
fitting the atmosphere of that
old droving-camp beside the
Murrumbidgee, that Gundagai
and its people will now welcome
everyone who wishes to help
celebrate the township’s Festival
Week.
Each place in Australia has
its own distinctive history,
whether dramatic, whether
homely and domestic, and
Gundagai has as much of
these as any other place. But
what is the factor in Gundagai’s
colorful legend that has made
such strong appeal to bush-
balladists, to storytellers, to col-
lectors of folklore and to just
plain folk?
Anyway, there will surely be a
benign influence in the vicinity
of Five Mile Creek in April: the
flavor of black billy-tea, of
treasured tobacco, of the con-
versations . . . and silences . . .
and of mateship have never
really dissolved in the Murrum-
bidgee air:
Sundowners know this spot quite
well
That pull in here at night,
And smoke and yarn with drover-
men
In the moon’s mysterious light.
The wind sings through the blue-
gums tall,
And the ghosts of years go by
Where the dog sits on the tucker-
box
??? miles from Gundagai.
It’s good to keep a story green
That gives a little cheer,
There’s a smile around the tucker-
box
That’s spreading year by year.
It’s fine to meet old friends again,
But we must say goodbye,
So keep the old grin going, mate,
?? ? miles from Gundagai.
EARTH’S PROTEST
What have 1 done, I ask you, people all,
You countless mites who creep and crawl
And stain your souls with vice and sin
Upon the surface of my skin?
Why, this I’ve done, and all for you,
I spread upon my bosom bare
The mantle of the waters fair,
A mirror of the heavens so blue;
Upon the mountainsides I laid
My carpet rich of bloom and blade,
Rainbow-hued, the lily, the rose,
And capped the peaks with gleaming snows;
I blew my trumpets, and behold
Life was born, life manifold,
Through grade and grade to seep and rise
Through ever new complexities,
To clamber up from state to state
And in proud man to culminate.
So there, by waving of my hand,
You, proud man, boastfully stand.
Why do you madly strive, and strain
Each puny cell of your poor brain
To find what you would lose again,
Squander your millions on machines
Contriving wily ways and means?
What have I done that you should face
The empty wastes of time and space,
The menace and the mystery,
Only to get away from me?
Burglars and rapers! trying to wrest
The holy secret from my breast I
NEW ZEALAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


OUTSTANDING NEW
“Daily Mail” Book of the Month
THE GREAT TEMPTATION
by Hans Kades. This is a gripping
story of a German medical student who
is driven by the poverty and loneliness
that he suffers after the war to take the
desperate step of practising as a
surgeon before he has qualified.
16/- (post lid.)
AWAY ALL BOATS
by Kenneth Dodson, This is a superb
sea story, spotlighting amphibious war-
fare in the Pacific. “This unusual and
enthralling book . . . will be acclaimed
as not only an outstanding war novel
but also an intimate picture of life at
sea by a man who loves ships and his
fellow-seamen ... A really great book!’
(Ulster Herald.) 21/- (post 1/S)
You’ll find these and all the hooks you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
Available from all booksellers
THE SIXTH OF JUNE
by Lionel Shapiro .. 18s. 9d.
A novel of love and war. To rival H.M.S. Ulysses. A first-rate
novel. Descriptions of fighting have never been bettered.
—Nancy Spain, London Daily Evprett.
Collins
Publishers
SPRIG MUSLIN
GEORGETTE HEYER
A new amusing Regency Romance.
At all booksellers - - - 13/6.
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
when the year ended, making him a
symbol for fertility rather than the
object of her erotic pleasure. His
sprinkled blood served to fructify trees,
crops and flocks, and his flesh was
eaten raw by the queen’s entourage of
young women. When a more
enlightened age abolished these prac-
tices they were no doubt enshrined by
the poets in such stories as the
(Edipus myth and the beautiful story
of Persephone’s descent into the
infernal regions. Later the genius of
Sophocles and Euripides and /Eschylus
transformed them and gave them a
deeper meaning, much as Shakspeare
would take some old fable and with
his intense passion and understanding
turn it into a “King Lear.”
The Greeks created in this way a
pantheon of gods and goddesses who
symbolised not just the socially-
respectable desires and passions of
human beings, but every desire and
passion. There were deities for love
and hate, for excess and moderation,
for revenge and toleration, for
hymeneal love and the erotic love of
Aphrodite; even the Greek metho-
drinker could claim as justification
for his obsession that he was
“possessed” by Dionysus, and the thief
and the big businessman could both
claim that they were possessed by
Hermes. Asceticism had its god as well
as self-indulgence, and the Muses were
there waiting to enter into empty souls
and take possession.
The awkward thing was, however,
that they were all insanely jealous of
one another, as Graves’s book shows.
The devotee of Aphrodite incurred the
wrath of Bacchus and the devotee of
Bacchus incurred the hatred of the
Muses and so on and so on. To get
themselves out of this predicament the
Greeks invented the ideal of the Golden
Mean—a bit of Bacchus, a bit of
Venus, a bit of Melpomene and so on
—but this only served to glorify the
mediocre and put the wholly -■
“possessed” at a great advantage.
Unless this is understood, Graves’s
book must read like an insensate
muddle. Odysseus is one moment a
hero, mouthing the most noble senti-
ments, and the next a mean and
murdering scoundrel; and the generals
of the Trojan War so constantly sin
against their own precepts, justifying
their actions with pious speeches, that
they sound quite modem.
As all the gods were worthy of
respect, this must have led to some
confusion in the conscientious Greek
mind, and there was never a race more
conscience-stricken. If Zeus was the
patron of cuckold-makers, Hera was
the protectress of all cuckolds and took
savage revenge on her earthly rivals.
Graves records that when Zeus’s
mother, Rhea, foreseeing what havoc
his lust would cause, forbade him to
marry he angrily threatened to violate
her, whereupon she turned herself into
a serpent; he did the same, and, twining
about her in an indissoluble knot,
carried his threat out. After his
marriage he fathered the Seasons and
the Three Fates on Themis; the
Charities on Eurynome; the Three
Muses on Mnemosyne, with whom he
lay nine nights, and Persephone on the
nymph Styx, while all the time Hera
bickered with him, and, like any human
wife, played tricks on his favorites,
but was careful never to go too far
for fear he would flog or hurl a
thunderbolt at her: sometimes she
borrowed Aphrodite’s girdle to excite
his passion and thus weaken his will.
So, although the Greek heaven was
as full of conflict as the Greek soul,
it was certainly a more complete mirror
of the real world than the Christian
and the Moslem, with their conception
of the one God; and evidently the
Greeks liked it because when
Socrates, with his Form of the Good,
attempted to apply reason to it, they
had him poisoned. Euripides and
Sophocles were friends of his and must
often have listened while he ques-
tioned; and in the 180 plays they wrote
between them —or at least in the dozen
which have survived —they tried simi-
larly to bring some order into the chaos
of conflicting passions which Graves
pictures in his two volumes.
Aptly enough, included in the
Penguin Classics series in fascinating
new translations are Homer’s Odyssey
and Iliad (the Greek Bible), the
Alcestis and the Bacchae and other
plays by Euripides; the Theban Plays
and the Electra of Sophocles; and
The Last Days of Socrates and the
Symposium of Plato. The whole lot
should be read together.
M. G. Skipper.
Hi-fi
Burnett James, in Hi-Fi for Pleasure
(Phoenix), is quick to dispute the claims
of even the finest of electric gramo-
phones to “absolute fidelity.” For it
is obvious that what comes out of a
loudspeaker is not the original
orchestra.
This does not mean that one gramo-
phone is as good as another; and with
a malediction upon makers of ordinary
instruments who advertise them as
“Hi-Fidelity” jobs, Mr. James goes into
some technical details about flat
response over a wide range of fre-
quencies, and then begins to mention
the names of English standard equip-
ment that can lay some claim to what-
ever approach to perfection has been
made.
What is needed, it seems, is a good
pre-amplifier that will amplify the
music from the record and allow adjust-
ment to the peculiarities of that particu-
lar record. From this the music is fed
into the ordinary amplifier, which
amplifies it uniformly and feeds it to
the speaker—and Mr. James then
begins to name speakers, especially
the “acoustical corner-ribbon” speaker
(you can get a nice one for £95
sterling), pick-ups, motors, etc.
A record-reviewer himself, he con-
siders that the music itself is most
important, and frowns upon gadgetists
who spend half a day getting cymbals
to sound on a record as they might if
they were clashed in the room. He
says openly, what many have been
thinking privately for a long time, that
microgroove records have completely
ended the usefulness of automatic
changers; and he is dubious about
tweeters and loudspeaker changeover
circuits.
He considers old records are still
best played with steel or fibre needles
which quickly wear into the exact
grooves, which the crystal needles do
not. He has an interesting chapter on
the development of tape-recordings
which will play an hour at a stretch
and cost almost twice as much as micro-
groove records for comparable playing-
time.
An appendix gives varying record-
ing-characteristics of different makes
of record; a price-list (English) of
amplifiers and pre-amplifiers recom-
mended (from £l6 16s. to £43 sterling),
of pick-ups and motors, and of loud-
speakers (from £25 to £145 sterling);
and there is a list of abbreviations, with
definitions of things like “flutter” and
“wow.” For anyone anxious to get
the best out of records it should be a
very handy little book indeed.
Reviewed Briefly
The Doves of Venus: Olivia
Manning (Heinemann). Set along the
outer fringes of London’s art-circles,
this story of women in love is told with
distinction of style and sensitive per-
ception. Both in the young, eager
provincial girl, Ellie, and in the
thwarted sophisticate Petta, the author
shows her mastery of feminine charac-
terisation, her power to record signifi-
cant detail and her precise understand-
ing of women’s reactions. The weakness
of the story lies in the absence of any
really masculine character. There are
pallid hedonists, effete artists, half-
baked writers (“imagining themselves
young because they have never
matured”) and a nebulous youth who
materialises in time to make a happy
ending. But there is not a real man
among them, and the story lacks con-
trast and motivation in consequence.
* * * *
To the Castle: Dorothea Malm
(Davies). After bearing a child to an
adolescent member of a French ducal
family, the heroine’s mother took her
to the middle of the U.S., married a
carpenter and then a seaman, who
brought her to England. In a London
publisher’s office the girl was given a
typing-assignment to a Frenchman who
proved to be the cousin of the duke
she imagined to be her father. Arriving
at the ancestral mansion, where her
face proved at once her relationship,
she essayed to overcome the Duke’s
coldness, and then encountered violence
and dark and curious passions that
one thought had been buried with the
romantic novel of the turn of the
century. But it is all very well done
and good-mannered.
A book of Olaf Ruhen’s New Guinea
short-stories, first published in “The
Bulletin” and “The Saturday Evening
Post,” is to be published in the U.S. by
Lippincott’s at the end of this year.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 378
Across
I—Spiders1—Spiders who play football for
Russia? (8)
s—Dross5 —Dross from smelting South
Carolina or lowa. (6)
10— Braver row on money. (9)
11 — Make a little composition twitch
the eye. (5)
12 — Fuel journals. (4)
13 — Where graziers may buy flowers
with beers. (5, 5)
15 — Excavators drunk in a steamer.
(7)
16 — South African plateau ark
smashed an Australian repre-
sentative on the ark? (6)
19 —Occupational disease among
cluers? (6)
21 —Exact recipes are available from
it. (7) , .
25 — Something like Glenelg . airport
colleague. (10)
26 — Single back where married
Americans hope to become single
again. (4)
28 — Refrigerant turned in Boadicea’s
folk. (5)
29 — Ta-ta to the parsonage article
which is a source of ill-feeling
between us and N.Z. (6, 3)
30— Nigger is hiding an un-niggerly
hair hue. (6)
31 —Like a structure making a boy
sagacious. (8)
Down
1 — German fellow in the old fur. (6)
2 Dope to obtain a mat. (7)
3 A diffident grey. (4)
4 Trek isn’t made by such woolly
producers. (8)
6 111-natured person to go over
with a jester. (5-5)
7 Jumped by many a hobo snake.
(7)
8 — Rats once disturbed an object of
a Japanese person’s veneration.
(8)
9 Batten couple. (5)
14 —Groundless approval to lure a
learner in a trade. (10)
17— Throw fish into the tip food,
Deedle-Deedle. (8)
18 — Who makes a pledge in favor of
a niggard? (8)
20—One cell accommodates an Irish
girl. (7)
22 — Three directions to an American
warship and one Moslem
sect. (7)
23 Alderman swallowed a box for
shipping fowls in. (5)
24 — Mark on the cricket pitch gives
an alderman comfort. (6)
27 —Squash up minced hams. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 377


FARMERS! GRAZIERS! DAIRY FARMERS!
*
y, ■ •$& & . %
4P^ :
"■vi
-> i
■
»
%I
&M
\:-y>^
f •'-' >•
:> ;•: s\-:>
«
KB '
m
■■- •<
*
***
'■■■■:."
■
m
1«
.
i*ss*
P
well
Me
:■¥■■
mmm
*>>:*»*»
* v; 4 ' *,
P*»
ssssS
Stfsg
m
iO&s
M
H
Illustrated is the Graham
“J” 10-ft. Spring Clamp
Trailing Plow—plowing at
5 in. depth with Heel Sweeps
attached.
*
for rapid moisture penetration
for maximum absorption of every
downpour
—for a deeper feeding area for plant roots
On flat, undulating, rough, rocky or stump country
-the Graham does a stupendous job
★ Builds a mulch into the soil.
'dr Doubles the subsoil moisture.
★ Quickly builds soil fertility.
★ Shatters the hard pan.
★ Conserves soil moisture.
k Prevents erosion by water and wind.
k Gives a perfect seed bed easier, quicker.
k Cultivates from 2 inches to more than 16 inches.
'dr Cultivates rough country that no other implement will
stand.
k Produces a better pasture—better crop yields.
A demonstration will prove the
Graham miles ahead in Perfor-
mance/ Durability and Results.
Contact the local Graham Plow agent in
your district. Arrange a demonstration
of a Graham Plow behind your own
tractor —on your own land.
LAND MEN NOTE!
Whether your property is located in the
dry western areas or in the moist coastal
belt, we can advise you how to specifi-
cally cultivate your soil and produce
better pastures and crops. Write us
immediately. Or just fill in the coupon
below and send to us for full particulars
of the Graham Plow.
Illustrated, is the Model “E” 7-ft. Spring Clamp GRAHAM
PLOW with Depth Control Wheels, which sells at £lB5. It
is available with long or standard shanks. Row spacings are
adjustable. Width may be increased to 9 ft.
Two types of Depth Control Wheels may be used. Indi-
vidually Adjustable Depth Control Wheels (£27/10/- extra),
or Standard Depth Control Wheels (£4O extra). Available
in 5 ft., 7 ft. and 9 ft.
GRAHAM PLOW
The original and genuine chisel plow is patented throughout the world and
manufactured in Australia under licence from the Oraham-Hoeme Plow Co.,
Amarillo, Texas, U.5.A., by
YEOMANS PROPRIETARY
LIMITED
537 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY MX 1784, MX 1884
GRAHAM PLOW-IMPROVES THE SOIL!
- - - ■
NAME
ADDRESS
(State make and model of your tractor)
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
