

SOLERO
s W,E H T OR DRY
The Bulletin
FUN AMONG THE ACCENTS —PAGE 27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3982
Wednesday, June 6, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
STOKE POGES CHURCH, SCENE
OF THE IMMORTAL ELEGY.
A FEW miles to the north of Eton is
the attractive Buckinghamshire
village of Stoke Poges, in the churchyard
of which Thomas Gray wrote his
immortal Elegy—perhaps the best-known
poem in the English language. For this
reason the ancient church at Stoke Poges
is a literary shrine which attracts many
thousands of visitors each year. The
manuscript of the poem which begins:
The curfew tolls the knell of parting'day,
The lowing herd winds slowly o’er the lea,
The ploughman homeward plods his weary way,
And leaves the world to darkness and to me.
is preserved in the Eton College Library.
Stoke Poges Church, illustrated here,
dates from the 12th century, and beneath
its east wall Thomas Gray and his mother
are buried. The church is noted for its
“Bicycle Window,” which illustrates the
“hobby-horse” from which was evolved
the modern bicycle. The tower was
originally surmounted by a spire, built
in 1831, but owing to its threatened
collapse in 1924 it was removed and
replaced by a small conical cap. The
manor of Stoke Poges dates from Saxon
times, and its name resulted from the
marriage of a 13th-century heiress,
Amicia de Stokes, to Rodger de Pogeis.
Thomas Gray’s mother lived at West
End Farm, a mile from the Church, and
was frequently visited there by her poet
son, who died at Pembroke Hall,
Cambridge, in 1771. He was buried by
the side of his mother in the churchyard
which his genius had made so famous.
Opposite the south-west door of the
Church is to be seen the ancient yew tree
under which the poet wrote the Elegy.
The rural surroundings of the “Country
Churchyard” has been preserved by the
purchase of thirteen acres adjoining the
church and its presentation to" the
National Trust. Jn these grounds stands
a massive monument to Thomas Gray,
designed by the architect Wyatt, on which
are inscribed some verses from the
famous poem, including the often-quoted
one :
far. from the madding crowd’s ignoble strife,
I heir sober wishes never learn'd to stray ;
Along the cool sequester'd vale of life
fhey kept the noiseless tenor of their way.
No. 301: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


Learn
If you have the urge
ability to express jour thoughts on paper.
STOTT’S can train you to Write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings f rom my writing total almost
£<o. (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast, by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereasfh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth,
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME . '
ADDRESS *
(S.B. 11*36) ...AGE.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue -
cessful.
The Red Page
THE 999th EVERYMAN
With characteristic humor the editors
of Dent’s invaluable Everyman’s
Library have chosen for their 1000th
volume Aristotle’s Metaphysics; and,
second-to-none though 1 am in my
admiration for the “Poetics” of this
master, which said everything that ever
needs to be said about the poetic drama,
perhaps I may be pardoned for choos-
ing to read No. 999 before tackling that
awe-inspiring 1000th.
So notable an occasion as the publi-
cation of the 1000th Everyman, ful-
filling at long last a dream dreamed by
J. M. Dent in 1906, does, of course,
call for some celebration. Without
Everyman’s one would just about have
to give up reading.
With a small pang of grief one may
recall that no Australian novel has
been thought worth including in the
series; and one may hold, perhaps, that
out of the whole range of our fiction,
Henry Lawson’s short-stories and
Joseph Furphy’s “Such Is Life” (which
personally I would rank about equal
with “Tristram Shandy”: a valuation
which alarms me; yet I feel it so) —out
of the whole range of our fiction these
two works have by now been rubbed-
about enough by time to prove their
durability and justify their inclusion in
an anthology of world-classics. But if
Aristotle has had to wait as long as
this there is still, no doubt, hope for
the Australians.
I have, in fact, feeling that justice
must be done to Dents on this occasion,
made inquiries among my colleagues
at “The Bulletin” office as to whether
anyone felt moved to write a popular,
readable article on Aristotle’s “Meta-
physics”; which, for some unaccount-
able reason, struck most of them as
funny. But Norman Lindsay admitted
ruefully to having read the wQrk in his
youth; Mr. Ronald McCuaig and Mr.
John Fountain both professed, with
trepidation, a nodding acquaintance
with it; and Mr. M. H. Ellis, whom no
research has ever daunted, knew it
rather better. So something may yet
be done.
But myself, elegant though the
volume looks in its special gilt dust-
jacket, I think I shall dodge it just now
—which no doubt is almost as
unmannerly as the awful blunder I
made in Dent’s office in London once
when Richard Church introduced me
to Ernest Rhys; who, like some bearded
Welsh gnome, manifested himself in
a corner. Knowing even then, at about
20, that the best thing to do with an
author, whether you have heard of him
or not, is to tell him some polite lie
about his work, I hastily assured Mr.
Rhys that his writing was very well
known to us, even in the remote part
of the globe from which I came. Mr.
Rhys, who had published a volume or
two of his own poetry, was surprised,
but, I think, gratified: but it was not
quite the right thing to say to the world-
famous editor of Everyman’s.
I cannot resist adding that, long
ago at Eltham. in New Zealand, I also
had the privilege of knowing, dimly,
one of the. Dents: though I did not then
know he was one of the great publish-
ing family. He was our Church of
England minister and was, I believ
a character of some note. But all
personally knew of him was that
one occasion I delivered to him, fro
my mother, a cabbage. I am uncerta
at this date whether this was a form
of tithe, or an offering for the Harves
Festival, or whether—perhaps as
form of penance—he actually ate th
extraordinary vegetable. If he did
would certainly explain how the fir
can digest the “Metaphysics.”
But to return to No. 999. This
indeed a book to celebrate and th
more so because it is an Italian nove
and we hear, in general, so little abou
Italian literature ... as Italy, ala
hears so little about ours. In Rome
couple of years ago I met, in a wonde
ful old house full of pictures anc
antiques. Professor Mario Praz, th
leading Italian authority on Englis
literature; and Professor Praz, regre
fully sipping the vermouth he so kind!
served us for morning-tea, had neve
heard of either Henry Lawson
Joseph Furphy.
No. 999 is Manzoni’s “I Promes
Sposi,” otherwise The Betrothed, trans
lated by Archibald Colquhoun.
was first published in 1827 and deai
with the countryside round about Mila
in the year 1628.
I can think of no other way t
describe it except that it is as if Gabrie
Chevallier, of the immortal “Cloche
merle,” wrote, of all things, an his
torical novel. Manzoni, though fran
enough when he needs to be, is neve
so naughty as Chevallier; but he ha
the same firm grip of his small pate
of earth, the same amused affection fo
village life, the same tenderness fo
young lovers, the same ease anc
naturalness in dealing with the Catholi
religion and its priests and nuns.
And, beyond that, he has the ability
—far surpassing what Chevallier ha
attempted—to paint-in. against hi
village, a huge historical background
that majestic movement of nationa
events which is, indeed, implied i
the war-clouds always threatening
Chevallier’s beloved village.
I, cannot think of any other historical
novel quite like it. It has been com
pared to “War and Peace,” but it i
much simpler both in structure anc
characterisation; indeed it has a decep
tive air of casualness. It is the very
reverse of that fearsomely pedantic
novel of Italian history by George Elio
—the massive, impressive, totally
unreadable “Romola.” It is not in the
least like the “costume-novels” o
Dumas. It seems less “contrived” than
even the most convincing of Scott's
historical romances. “A Legend o:
Montrose”—though Scott, with Shak-
speare and Voltaire, is supposed to have
influenced Manzoni. It is more natural
more at ease in its period, than Robert
Graves’s admirable but still rather self-
conscious attempts to get away from
the costume-novel. It just goes straight
into its period—into the popular
revolts in starving Milan, the terrible
plague and the Mantuan War of 1628
—and lives there; with all its people as
much alive as if the book were about
the Italian peasantry of today.
Manzoni’s great secret was to create
his characters alive in their village
before he marched them—or, rather,
let them whnder—into history. To
begin with, his novel is no more than
the story of a village youth and maiden
wanting to be married and prevented
by an unscrupulous nobleman, who has
a notion to ravish the. maiden; and,
with that simple plot still to hold the
story together, it is their flight from
that threatened disaster that takes the
youth to the revolt, the informers and
the plague in Milan and the girl to the
convent where she meets that strange
and most powerful character, the
Signora . . . who, one learns in
Manzoni’s most tremendous stroke of
casualness, has buried a novice in the
garden. It would be a pity to tell more
of that story; but in that one chapter
on the Signora this Italian novelist
has compacted the whole of Balzac’s
“Eugenie Grandet,” and a weirder, far
more forcible “Eugenie Grandet” at
that.
Can anything in “Such Is Life,” to
return to one’s pinpoint of grief, really
be compared with so fierce, so superb
a piece of drama as the story of the
nun of Monza, which so excited Edgar
Allan Poe? Well, no . . . Furphy lost
his drama in a jigsaw. But, compared
with Manzoni’s quieter scenes in the
village, his humor, his naturalness, his
grip of his native earth, something
might still be said. Of course “Such Is
Life” is rather a difficult book; but,
then, so is a lot of “Tristram Shandy”;
and so—Heaven knows —is Aristotle’s
“Metaphysics.”
Douglas Stewart.
"Australian Pageant"
In Australian Pageant (Angus and
Robertson), P. R. Smith, senior English
master at Melbourne Grammar School,
has made a selection of vigorous
writing, mainly adventurous, by Aus-
tralians.
Beginning with “Ralph Rashleigh’s’
vicious sketching of the Arlacks, and
the life of assigned-men on their farm
he goes on to Eyre’s journal of the las
days of his journey across to Western
Australia, his overseer killed by blacks
his stores looted, riding on to the sea
and the providential whaler that took
him off; then to William Craig’s
account of the Bendigo goldfields; then
he jumps a centuiy to P. G. Taylor’s
exciting description of how they got his
Catalina off the water at Easter Island
with rockets, heavily loaded for the
2000-mile hop to Chile, having spen'
a day washing-about in rough seas . .
Then he goes back a little to C. F
Laseron’s story of a day with Mawson
in the Antarctic in 1911; Jack Hides’s
account of a hunt for cannibals in New
Guinea; Hugh Schmitt on the rescue ol
Varischetti from his air-pocket when
the Bonnievale mine was flooded at
Coolgardie in 1907; and the “Maitland
Mercury” report of the Maitland races
of 1843.
Later comes an extract from Rohan
Rivett’s “Behind Bamboo.” and the
never-to-be-forgotten story by Ronald
McKie in “Proud Echo” of how one
Gillan swam out from inside the sinking
H.M.A.S. Perth; and the book is
rounded-off with fiction: a Dal Stivens
cricket-extravaganza, a kangaroo-hunt
by “Steele Rudd,” the rescue of Malise
from T. A. G. Hungerford’s “The
Ridge and the River” (with the wonder-
ful scene of the shot Japanese), a wild-
brumby round-up by Henry G.
Lamond and a Tasmanian wolf-hunt
by Erie Wilson.
Obviously a boys’ book, and one
which should be popular in boys’
schools, it raises for Mr. Smith a point
which he seems to think needs explana-
tion: from this, anthology “ it might
seem,” he says, “that Australia is a
country almost uninhabited by women.”
But they teach gallantry, also, at Mel-
bourne Grammar: “In fact, a great
many of Australia’s finest writers are
women, but they seldom write about
the sort of women who would fit
satisfactorily into an anthology for
schools.”
"Song and Dance"
There is a freshness in Chaucer
which makes it seem that time, as well
as English poetry, began with him; and
it is appropriate enough, for Australia
is still a young country, that both in
cadence and mood the opening poem
in Ray Mathew’s Song and Dance
(Lyrebird Writers; Edwards and Shaw)
should recall, however Australian it has
become in its glinting gum-leaves,
Chaucer and some of the lyrics of
Shakspeare:—
At country-time when day lets fall
its web of frost to hold the ground,
and from the trees the magpies call
the sun to dance its dazzling round ;
at morning-light when sky sings
blue
as south-coast sea or bluebell-cup,
and brilliant in each drop of dew
the world is turned both down and
up ;
at that new time when grass seems
bright
as daisy-cluster, penny found,
and leaf of tree against the light
sends glancing, eye to sparkling
ground ...
Sometimes in the course of the book
as in “Young Man’s Fancy”—
Come tomorrow night,
or don’t come ever.
The moon will give light
enough for a lover —
which appears to be based on
blending of Marlowe’s “Passionate
Shepherd” with Suckling’s
Out upon it, I have loved
Three whole days together
■ And am like to love three more
If it prove fair weather,
Ray Mathew continues to write on the
old-English models. More often he
writes in a loose, easy, colloquial style
which he has invented for himself and
which if the off-rhymes are sometimes
more slack than even off-rhymes ought
to be, serves him admirably to make
his comments on contemporary Aus-
tralia, city and country: — r
There are thirtytwo people living
in this district;
The nearest town is twentyfive miles
too far;
i own a pushbike and legs that tire
too easily ;
So at night I calculate the cube-root
of the stars. .
Mostly he writes about love; and in
many moods, from delight to serious
doubt:—
And she talks to me softly
Calls me darling her lover
You strange lad my baby
Let me smooth down your hair.
Until I am darling
Her lad and her lover
Something she wants me;
There is no me there.
But whatever his mood, theme or
style, a touch of that Chaucerian, Shak-
spearian freshness pervades all his
poetry. It is because he writes naturally,
as the song comes to him—sometimes
too naturally and with humor,
tenderness and lyric feeling. It makes
a highly individual book, and a very
pleasant one.
Reviewed Briefly
AD. 2500: 21 prize-winning short-
stories from the “Observer” com-
petition, 1954 (Heinemann). The
“Observer” asked its competitors to
write a short-stoiy set in A.D. 2500.
The winner, set in Wales in a village
that has just installed electricity for
the 3 first time (though an aged farmer
sets off casually for the moon), is mildly
funny. The rest, far too many on the
time-machine notion, are hardly likely
still to be in existence in A.D. 2500.
* * * *
Worthwhile Journey: Tromp van
Diggelen (Heinemann). Autobiography
of a descendant of the famous Admiral
van Tromp. A pleasant, adventurous
book ranging from South Africa to
England and Switzerland, in which the
author is at one moment hobnobbing
with Smuts; the next, climbing some
impossible mountain; the next (he was
a professional wrestler and strong-man)
demonstrating his system of “musical
muscle-corttrol”; and the next, being
treed by a warthog.
* * c *
Yankees and Creoles: Richard Pares
(Longmans). Dealing learnedly and in
detail with the trade between North
America and the West Indies before
the American Revolution, this is hardly
a book for the general reader; in spite
of such colorful information as neces-
sarily comes into the story when rum.
tobacco, molasses, the conflicting
interest of Dutch, French, Danish and
British colonies and the “high pre-
sumptuous sinning” of Jamaica form
the essentials.
* * * *
Collected Poems: Bryan Guinness
(Heinemann). Mostly Nature-poems,
more-or-less in Georgian style, cele-
brating the seasons in England, Scot-
land and Ireland:—
All day the cuckoo
In County Mayo
Breathes like a flute
As he flits high and low.
It is not so much distinguished poetry
as the reflections of a distinguished
mind—“ Bryan Guinness” is Lord
Moyne.


i§§§
mm
r
Si
-1
-
£
m
i
i-
, :
m
Hi
O’::-.
m
m&
points and stop cold feet now!
/Lambswool lined for
pleasant warmth
and comfort
/Made strong for
hard wear both for
city and country
/Well made to look
stylish
/Styled for leisure
and for work
/H an dy zipper
fastening on some
types
Men stop having cold feet right now come in and see our superb
collection of Snow Boots! Anthony Horderns’ Snow Boots are warm,
comfortable and hardwearing; their thick, lambswool lining makes them
warm; their soft spongy rubber (or leather) soles make them
comfortable this is logic any man can appreciate: And they’re obviously
male gender (see their smooth, masculine designs) in box calf,
suede and hide. We’ve even a pair of boots for the man on the land
and Anthony Horderns’ are mail order fitting experts! Try on a pair . . . you’ll
walk out ankle-deep in luxurious comfort. Comfortably priced too, 52/- pair.
Large Boot at Left: Lambskin boot, leather sole. 5-10, 63/-; 11, 65/6.
Here you will find the boot you want
Down Quilts Remade
Anthony Horderns’ will
remake your old down
quilt to look like new. We
are quilt specialists and all
quilts are remade by quilt
experts in our own factory.
Only the best quality
materials are used for the
coverings. Please write for
a quotation now!
Anthony Horderns’
Watch Repair Service
All work carried out by
expert craftsmen. Let us
advise you on your watch
repair problems. We re-
make all types of Diamond
Jewellery. Safe, prompt
service. Ground Floor.
Having a Party?
Going to a Ball?
Anthony Horderns' Liquor
Dept, can supply all your
requirements and deliver
free daily to 325 suburbs.
Plenty of local bottled
beer available.
Tan willow and black.. Box Calf boot with
genuine lambswool lining. Lace derby with
welted leather soles. 5-10, 105/-. 11, 107/6.
/' Si
f : P
spip;
ill!
if ' ■■ li
™— ■— ■ >
Brown Suede Boots larabswool lined with
zip fastening and sponge rubber soles. Also
black suede in sizes 5 to 10, priced at 58/-.
Tan or Black hide sewn
and standard screwed
sole. Wood lined. 5-10
80/-; 11, 82/6.
T his tan calf hoot has
zip fastening and sewn
leather sole. 5-10, 86 T--
11, 88/6. ’
Genuine lamb skin
Albert slippers in brown
only, pump leather soles,
full, I sizes, 5-10, 52/-.
Box 2712


The Bulletin
Vol 77—No. 3982
Wednesday , June 6, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
HOMES FOR THE PEOPLE
EVEN before the end of World War II it was
recognised that one of the biggest problems when
peace came, after reabsorption of the men of the
services into industry, would be that of housing.
The slackened rate of building during the 1930’s and
the almost complete cessation of private building
after 1941 had left a gap which all responsible
authorities realised would take years to fill. More-
over, the increased marriage-rate and birth-rate
of the war years had added their weight to the
problem, which was to be aggravated by the post-
war immigration which all parties agreed was vital
for the future of Australia. Everyone knew that
houses had to be built, and built fast, but there
were various opinions as to the best means of
setting about the job, which was further complicated
by a shortage of everything in the building line,
from bricks and bricklayers to roofing-nails and
baths.
Almost the only commodities not in short
supply were plans and blueprints, and out of these
grew the State Housing Commissions and the Com-
monwealth-States Housing Agreement. With
“Labor” Governments in power in Canberra and
in five of the six States, the scales were weighted in
favor of building houses for rent rather than owner-
occupied homes. The Housing Agreement per-
mitted the sale of a house to a tenant, but required
the State authority in such cases to pay the full
sale-price to the Commonwealth. This, in effect,
precluded the sale by instalments of any home built
under the scheme—unless the State was prepared
to arrange other financial accorhmodation for the
buyer. At that time, with Federal “Labor” in the
grip of the “socialisation-in-ten-years” planners,
Opposition attempts to make provision in the agree-
ment for purchase-by-instalments were defeated by
the Chifley Government. Mr. Dedman’s famous
remark about “little capitalists” was a product of
the period. Nowadays “Labor” scoffs at any
suggestion that it ever intended or desired the
Government to become a universal landlord, but
nine or ten years ago it wasn’t so sure.
Whatever doubts there may be about the
desires of political parties on the matter of home-
ownership, there can be none about the wishes of
the Australian people. In between the two census-
days in 1947 and 1954, the proportion of owner-
occupied homes rose from 44.7 per cent, to 47.9
per cent., and of purchasers-by-instalments from
7.9 per cent, to 15.1 per cent. This reflects the
work of building-societies, the War Service Homes
Department and similar instrumentalities. In the
same period tenanted homes dropped from 43.4
p.c. to 34.1 p.c. That this happened despite the
strong pull of the Housing Commissions, which,
particularly in the early post-war years of shortages,
were in the box-seat when it came to getting
materials, and are still there in the matter of
securing land, is indicative of the strong desire of
Australians to own their own homes.
In recent years even the “Labor” State Gov-
ernments have become a little browned-off in
regard to the large-scale landlord-business. Although
the Cahill Government in N.S.W. still feels instinc-
tively that 300 tenants in a “multi-unit block of
flats” (Commission-built) are a better electoral bet
than a similar number of instalment-paying home-
buyers scattered through a dozen electorates, the
mounting cost of upkeep of Commission homes and
the unpleasant task of dunning for arrears of rent
and serving eviction-notices have given rise to
second-thoughts. In the past three years painting
and repairs to houses built under the scheme have
cost the N.S.W. Housing Commission £177,000,
£201,000 and £290,000 respectively. Expenditure
under this heading naturally increases with the
number of houses, but it also increases with the age
of the house, and may be expected to rise steeply
as the years go by.
Last year the Commonwealth-States Housing
Agreement Act was amended to permit the sale of
homes on terms, and an increasing number of sales
may be expected from now on. At the same time
the Federal Government proposed a fundamental
change in policy in connection with the renewal of
the Housing Agreement (due to expire at the end of
this month). The intention was to reduce the
emphasis on Government building and to encourage
private building. At the Premiers’ Conference in
June, 1955, the Prime Minister said that he felt
that some proportion of the £32-million-a-year
advanced to the States for housing should be
earmarked for building for home-ownership —it
appeared that under the current system 95 p.c. of
it was destined for rental homes. At a subsequent
meeting his proposal was made in more detail. It
was suggested that 20 p.c. of money advanced under
the new agreement should be set aside for financing
the erection of homes through building-societies
(30 p.c. after the first two years); that the interest-
rate on housing funds should be three-quarters of
one per cent, below the ruling Government-bond
rate; that 10 p.c. of the funds should be devoted to
providing homes for members of the defence forces.
The Premiers turned-down this proposal. They
protested that the interest-rate was too high; they
didn’t like being told how to spend their share of
the loan-money (what borrower does?); some of
the States did not have a very extensive system of
co-operative building-societies.
An amended offer has now been made by the
Commonwealth and a bill for a new agreement is
before Federal Parliament. The chief conces-
sions are a slightly lower interest-rate (1 p.c. below
the bond-rate); the Commonwealth will provide
half the funds required to make-up the allocation
for defence-force homes; the home-ownership
advances may be channelled through other home-
financing instrumentalities as well as building-
societies.
The State Governments have only a short time
left in which to make their decision whether or
not to accept the plan. Building-societies are most
active in N.S.W., but lack of finance has hampered
them somewhat in the last year or so. In Victoria,
since the advent of the Bolte Government, an
impetus has been given to the growth of the move-
ment. The Victorian Government has also estab-
lished a Home Finance Trust to guarantee institu-
tions lending money for home-building and to
encourage them to grant bigger loans and accept
lower deposits. In the other States Government or
semi-Government authorities finance most of the
instalment-purchase homes, and under the new
agreement this practice would probably still con-
tinue. When discussing his Home Finance Bill Mr.
Bolte said he hoped the new private savings-banks
would also enter this field. Last week one of them—
the Bank of New South Wales Savings Bank—
announced that it intended to do so to the extent of
£4 million a year.
The amended proposals of the Commonwealth
Government go a long way towards meeting the
objections of the Premiers, and there seems to be
no valid reason why they shouldn’t be accepted.
Any State Government rejecting them lays itself
open to the suspicion that its primary purpose is
not to provide homes for the people but to
perpetuate the system of State landlordism.
Confusion and the Constitution
THE long-expected appointment of a Common-
wealth Parliamentary Committee to examine the
problem of making the Constitution a more
effective instrument of national government doesn’t
seem to promise anything but frustration.
It is a typical dead-end committee, so far as the
Government is concerned. The chairman is Senator
Spicer, Attorney-General; other members include
the Prime Minister (ex-officio); Mr. Joske, a “silk”
learned in the divorce laws; Mr. Drummond, who
has some experience in the study of Constitutional
matters, particularly in relation to new States; Mr.
Downer, a young Liberal barrister from South
Australia; Senator Wright, a barrister (Tasmania),
formerly Deputy Leader of the Opposition in that
State; and Mr. Hamilton, who is apparently there
because he is a Westralian.
The Opposition have a different type of team.
Dr. Evatt, their leader (ex-officio), another lawyer-
member; Senators Kennedy, the big boss of the
Federal A.L.P., and McKenna; M.P.s Calwell,
Ward, Pollard and Whitlam (an N.S.W. barrister)
form the corpus of their section. It is obvious
from the personnel that the “Labor” party has
mustered-up an extreme Leftist team, for the most
part, and a tough one which will seek by sheer
personality and strong-arm methods to make its
view felt.
It includes four men who were in a Ministry
which sought, under Dr. Evatt’s Fourteen-points
Bill, to use the war to cloak an impudent attempt
to “reform” the Constitution in a way which would
have made it a rather close imitation of that of
Russia; one under^ which, on the pretext of legislat-
ing to protect the’ “four freedoms,” the power to
interpret those freedoms would have been placed
by law substantially in the hands of the then
“Labor” majority. That meant, in reality, in the
hands of a union junta behind the scenes of the
caucus in which the dominant factors were
Communist-ruled unions.
If the country expects any Constitutional light,
other than a red-light, from this bunch of “Labor
hopefuls, all bound by the views of the Hobar
Conference, it must be optimistic indeed —o
desperate. Mr. Calwell, in particular, the deputy
leader who has made it clear that in his opinior
‘ Labor” should take steps next time it has contro
of Parliament,to make sure that no other party sha
ever again have the numbers to govern and tha
the whole Commonwealth shall become anothe
Queensland, politically, seems a strange figure t
find on a committee considering Constitutiona
reform.
Apart from this, however, it scarcely seem
possible for any committee on which the State
are not represented to come to any acceptabi
scheme or embryo of a scheme. The States can
be ignored at any stage; and, indeed, Mr. Cahill
already sending out a cry to the N.S.W. Oppositio
for co-operation in defending State rights anc
securing the restoration of some, like the right t
levy income-taxes, which have been moribund
and the States with it.
However irritating the position may be t
everybody concerned, iyid however many gaps anc
holes and ambiguities there may be in the Com
monwealth’s powers, the stark fact is that th
Commonwealth is a Federation, and a Federation
based on an agreement between and with the States
The Constitution is not in itself an agreemen
which can be broken or abrogated by any of th
parties; it is the supreme law in its own sphere, on
which can be altered only in accordance with
specific legal procedure. It is not a law unde
which certain powers are deeded to the States and
the residue of power vested in the Commonwealth
It defines the Commonwealth’s power and limits i
under Section 51 to about 40 specified matters
some in a vague manner.
While the Commonwealth law overrides State
law in matters in which the legislative authority is
vested in the Federal Parliament, the residuary
powers not defined as belonging to the Common-
wealth remain with the States. This position can’t
be altered without the consent of the States. And the
Constitution can’t be amended by Commonwealth
action save by the application of Section 128, which
provides (a) that any proposed amendment musi
be passed by a majority of both Houses of Federal
Parliament, or by one under the special provisions
dealing with Senate rejections of legislation, and
(b) must be approved by a majority of voting
electors and by a majority of electors in a majority
of the States.
The fact that Federation has worked out very
differently from original expectation doesn’t help
the matter. The preponderance of local opinion
when the Commonwealth was formed was that it
would be merely a co-ordinating authority in matters
which had to be co-ordinated if the country were
to work smoothly internally and be safe from
external attack. Its formation was agreed to, not
very enthusiastically, by some of the smaller States
on promise of special protection—and by the float-
ing vote, probably, on the airy assurance that it
would cost less to operate “than the price of a
dog-licence per head of population of Australia.”
The actual trend of events was foreseen only
by a very few prescient souls like Alfred Deakin,
who prophesied that “as the power of the purse in
Great Britain has established by degrees the
authority of the Commons, so it will in Australia
ultimately establish the authority of the Common-
wealth.”
It is not merely one side of the Federation which
is in a mess. The Commonwealth is in a mess be-
cause it has developed from what originally seemed
to be a confederation of sovereign States, widely
separated in spirit because of long distances and
the wide separation of grouped populations, into a
closely-knit country with a unified nationality,
whose furthest recesses have been brought within
a few hours’ travel of each other. It is trying to
express the unified will of the whole country with
powers which are inadequate by using its financial,
defence and social-service powers.
On the other hand, the States find difficulty in
exercising the sovereign powers which they have—
and the Commonwealth has not —in certain fields
because the Commonwealth is paramount financially
and in defence powers and foreign affairs, through
which its right of making treaties gives it, in some
avenues, a potent weapon of government, which
seems to amount sometimes to a special power to
legislate.
The mess can be cleared-up only by the agree-
ment of all interested parties to the original contract.
The whole history of Constitutional referenda shows
that it is pretty hopeless to attempt to secure popular
support in a majority of States, and from both States
and Commonwealth majorities of the voters, in any-
thing in which State Governments are prepared to
rear-up and fight the Commonwealth. Equally, the
States have no hope of regularising their position
without full Commonwealth backing.
Thus it seems that any move toward reform
should be a joint enterprise from the very first step,
and if the committee in Canberra goes further than
a bare recommendation to call a Constitutional
convention —a recommendation which is superfluous
so far as the Government is concerned —it is likely
to find itself treading on very sensitive toes.


KING SPUD
\s &<*_
POOMO


PLAIN ENGLISH
The High-Commissionership
Sir Thomas White, at 68, has retired
from the High Commissionership in
London, after having served there since
1951. Before that he had been M.P. for
Balaclava for 22 years. He had a fine
record in the Air Force in two world
wars —indeed, his role in the first one
was historic, for he was in the first half-
flight of the Air Force, one of the first
men in the Empire really to attack an
enemy from the air. On the social and
public-relations side he has done a very
good job for Australia in London, has
kept it well in the limelight throughout
his term, and has worked night and day
on the job.
This isn’t to say, however, that Aus-
tralia House is an organisation of which
this country can be proud. It is a hap-
hazard growth, developed somewhat like
Topsy without much vision on the part
of Canberra, which has looked on it
rather as a centre to which it can send a
Minister when he has earned a rest and
one whose chief objectives are to serve
socially the flood of Australian travellers
who are bent on spending as much of their
earnings as they can in Europe.
Time and time again over the past
generation Australia House business
organisation has been held up to scorn.
What seems to be needed is a division
of offices. A High Commissioner neces-
sarily has Ambassadorial duties and
political duties which are inescapable.
And there should be enough of these to
occupy him without his having to trouble
about the many other things which fall
into a High Commissioner’s hands. At
the same time it is no office to be handed
out as a sop to a Minister who is regarded
as reaching the age-limit and needing a
rest.
With the innumerable problems of de-
fence and strategy nowadays, a young,
keen, active man, reasonably experienced,
is needed rather than somebody
whose career is near its end and
whose talents have obviously lain
in his Parliamentary ability and
personal loyalty to his leader, which are
Sir Eric Harrison’s strong-points. And
the time has come when there should be
a Trade Commissioner of high status and
wide business experience.
It sometimes puzzles Australians as to
what useful purposes are served inside
the portals in the Strand which are so
deplorably decorated with the effigies of
a group of dying explorers. The organisa-
tion seems lavish, diffuse and expensive,
and out of balance with the British Gov-
ernment’s opposite-number organisation
in Australia.
Costing about £500,000 a year to run,
it supports a Commissioner at £5OOO a
year, a Deputy Commissioner (perman-
ent) at £3OOO, an official secretary,
assistant-secretary (finance) and three or
four other officers in the £2OOO-a-year
class, an agricultural counsellor on the
same level, about 350 other regular
employees and an indefinite number of
casual employees. A matter of £50,000
a year or so is paid in exchange on
salaries.
Australia House spends over £70,000
a year on postages, telegrams and tele-
phones, plus about £30,000 a year for
cablegrams, which works out at about
£275 a day, Sundays and holidays
included.
Double-dissolution
There was nothing new in the recital of
facts which the Prime Minister tabled
concerning the double-dissolution of
more than five years ago, but the com-
munications between himself and the
ff n , Governol ' - General, McKell,
otter hints for the newly-constituted
joint committee on amendment of the
Constitution.
There was little delay between the first
moves for the double-dissolution and the
gi anting of it. Menzies discussed the
matter with counsel [Barwick, K.C.I on
March 10, 1951, and then talked with the
Governor-General on March 15. The
double-dissolution was granted on March
16. The Governor-General, as the Prime
Minister said, appreciated at the time of
the first interview the significance of the
steps that had been taken. A study of
the facts as set out shows that no one
could have been in any doubt of the
intention of the Senate, then with 34
Labor members against 26 on the
Government side, to block indefinitely the
banking and other legislation \
The Commonwealth Bank Bill provided
ft lift ° f ¥ intent i°ns against
the background of Section 57 of the Con-
stitution (which sets out the deadlock
requirements between the two Houses
that must be satisfied before a double-
dissolution can be sought); but the Senate
had gone much further. The Prime
Minister reminded the Governor-General
(although knowing from his talks that
McKell also had it in mind) that on the
occasion of the 1914 double-dissolution
“some importance” had been attached to
the unworkable condition of the Parlia-
ment as a whole. He admitted that this
might have been given a weight then that
might not apply in 1951, “having regard
to modern Constitutional developments,”
but stressed that even in 1951 the position
in the Parliament was such that good
government, secure administration and the
reasonably speedy enactment of a legis-
lative programme were being made
extremely difficult, “if not actually
impossible.”
The papers, belatedly made, public,
carry their own justification for what
occurred. “Labor,” which has been wait-
ing for them for a chance to attack the
former “Labor” Premier of N.S.W., who
at the relevant time was a Governor-
General proposed by “Labor,” can find
nothing in them to suggest that the Con-
stitution was either strained or ignored.
Sam Hordern
The death of Sir Samuel Hordern
removes a figure who for half a century
has demonstrated that a wealthy man of
national spirit can be the best kind of
public servant.
He was born to great wealth and to the
control of a concern which had started in
1825 in a little single-front shop in
George-street, Sydney, and had been
developed in a couple of generations into
an institution of national significance.
He succeeded his father as a councillor
of the Royal Agricultural Society of
N.S.W. and became its till-then youngest
president. He forwarded stock breeding
with a consistent energy until ill-health
forced his retirement, and the Jersey-
breeding world in particular owed him a
special debt for his judicious importations
and for the generous distribution of the
progeny of them which he made from his
Retford Park Stud. On the Turf he was
some years vice-chairman of the A.J.C.,
and in his prime as a racing-man won a
Melbourne Cup with Artilleryman and
the Caulfield Cup with his imported
Violoncello.
With the conversion of Anthony
Hordern’s (in 1926) into a public company
he was able to give more time to public
affairs in general.. He has served as chair-
man of the A.M.P. and of the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, and on
the board of the Commonwealth Bank.
He was a pillar of the N. S. Wales Club,
which he regularly frequented. He was
knighted in 1919, and became a K.B.E.
about 20 years later.
Personally, he was a tall, friendly, hand-
some, generous man, modest, ready to
listen to all-comers, but with little to say
for himself unless he really had something
to say. He was a genial host and an
unobtrusive helper of deserving causes,
and especially of returned soldiers, on a
scale which few suspected. And many a
now-prosperous cattle-breeder got his
start through a quiet bit of assistance
from Retford Park.
The thing of which he was
proudest in his later years was
the success of his son, “Young Sam,” a
brave soldier of World War 11, who
inherited all the family instincts for stock
and the land,, and who has succeeded his
father as president of the Royal Agri-
cultural Society.
Exposure in Korea
The expulsion of the Red truce-inspectors
in Korea is a development which points
the hopelessness of any attempt to secure
accord with the Communist bloc except
through strength.
The armistice agreement which stopped
the war and started the stalemate (against
the protests of the South Koreans, who
knew their Communists) provided that
neither side should bring in fresh war-
resources, that there should be certain
important reductions, and that the terms
of the arrangement should be policed by
a neutral committee consisting of the
representatives of Sweden, Czechoslo-
vakia, Poland and Switzerland. There
was no room to question the neutral
attitude of Sweden and Switzerland.
They are the world’s professional
neutrals; but the choice of the other
two showed the foolish weakness of
U.N.0., since those countries are no
more than helot provinces of Russia,
Poland with a Russian Commander-in-
Chief and Czechoslovakia Russian-
managed and turning and twisting in
policy with Russia as the Kremlin
decrees.
As soon as the armistice agreement
came into force the United States began
to withdraw troops and resources on 'a
large scale —again facing the anguished
protests of the South Koreans. The
British Commonwealth suit.
The South Korean front was stripped
almost bare save for South Koreans.
Not so with the Chinese and North
Koreans. They built up their airfields.
They kept up their pressure and their
threats. The Polish and Czech “neutral”
members of the supervisory commission
have been concerned only to control the
U.N.O. side of the armistice agreement.
In relation to the North Korean side of
the 38th parallel their self-allotted task
seems to have been to facilitate the con-
tinuing policy of Moscow to force South
Korea behind the Iron Curtain.
Both the North Korean command and
the offending double-dealers of the com-
mission have been warned again and
again, but warning has had no effect. The
North Korean command has circum-
vented every vital clause of the agree-
ments regarding the introduction of
armaments and aircraft with the full
connivance of the Poles and Czechs, who
have now been expelled as “flagrantly
unneutral.” What happens now is a
matter for conjecture.
It goes to show how difficult it is for
the West to deal with the Red bloc of
countries in which words mean some-
thing entirely different from what they
mean in Western mouths. Leninism
frankly avows that it is permissible to
cheat, to deceive, to lie, to “do anything,”
in order to achieve the party end.
It Does Happen Here!
When Bogoljub Rancic was released by
a Sydney court in April from an attempt
by the Yugoslav Communist Govern-
ment to extradite him on an allegation of
larceny, he issued a warning that the
case was the beginning of a prepared
plan “to bring terror and confusion to
Old Australians and New Australians.”
Actually the campaign had begun
earlier, but it appears to be getting
stronger and more brazen.
On February 23, more than a month
before the overfamiliar allegation against
Rancic was made, Michael Butor, a
former Czech, not naturalised, hired
a taxi from his home at Thornton, near
Alexandra (Vic.), to travel the 90 miles to
Melbourne. His wife and family have
not heard of him since, but the Free
Czech Union believes he was smuggled
aboard a ship bound from Melbourne to
Genoa on March 23.
His wife went to the Czech Consulate,
opened in 1954 (post Petrov), and met
B. Hala, the consul, who told her his
Government was not issuing passports
except for Olympic Games visitors, and,
in response to her no doubt anxious
further questions, he said, in effect, he no
speak English much.
His English improved considerably in
the intervening weeks, and when he was
interviewed about the growth of the
consulate in Melbourne, financial help
(as well as transit visas) for Russians
returning home, consulate parties for
Europeans and whether Russian agents
were operating through the consulate, he
was able to reply fluently and
soothingly.
Nevertheless, there is considerable
alarm among Czechs in Victoria.
One Czech, whose letters from home
stopped suddenly a year ago, received a
typed, unsigned letter on April 30 plead-
ing with him to return home to his
parents, although one of the last letters
from his father, in his own handwriting,
had advised him never to return. A
Czech turned up mysteriously at his
work, told him this was his last chance
to return home and, if he did, his parents’
confiscated assets would be returned to
them. He, too, went to the Czech Con-
sulate and was informed his fare would
be paid if he returned home, and his
family and he would be free.
Another Czech who arrived in 1951
and is now the manager of a suburban
business was approached by two men,
one a Czech and the other apparently a
Russian, and advised to go home “to
help his parents and make their lot
easier.”
It may be presumed that many other
New Australians have been too frightened
to approach the Australian authorities;
and police experts believe the “inter-
viewers” have kept just within the law,
indicating expert direction by Old Aus-
tralians familiar with it.
Immigration Minister Harold Holt has
now asked his department for a full
investigation of these events in a country
which firmly believes it couldn’t happen
here, or simply doesn’t want to be con-
vinced it does.
Chair of Literature
After having been a vague dream for
years, the movement towards establish-
ing a chair of Australian literature at
Sydney University—hoped to be a fore-
runner to similar chairs in other States —
took on a surprising reality at a public
meeting at the Town Hall attended by
Sir John Northcott, Dr. Mowll, Dr. Eris
O’Brien, Dr. Evatt, Mr. Heffron, Senator
J. A. McCallum and Lord Mayor Hills
and blessed from afar by Mr. Menzies,
rising like Triton from the waves.
No doubt too much nationalistic senti-
ment has somehow got mixed-up in this
movement. Merely having a professor
to talk about it doesn’t prove that al
Australian literature is worth professing.
Nevertheless, nations express them
selves in mysterious ways; and if thi
seems to have become an occasion fo
everybody to go boldly marching forwarc
to the tuneful strains of “Advance Aus
tralia Fair,” why not? The professor
whoever he is to be, can always point ou:
afterwards how very woeful are the
words of that aspiring anthem.
The solid fact is that there does exist
a body of Australian literature worth
serious study in the universities. And
obviously we should be studying it our-
selves instead of waiting vaguely for
European recognition or leaving it to
energetic Fulbrighters from America.
The value to the nation is real and vital
because it is in its books that the national
tradition is preserved, clarified and
enriched.
It takes £BO,OOO to set up a professor:
they are as expensive as they are valuable.
The committee which has been organised
—largely through the unsparing efforts
of Dr. Colin Roderick—to raise the money
has already got £lO,OOO. It is asking the
public for the rest. Donations may be
sent to Mr. J. C. Bongers, accountant,
University of Sydney; cheques made
payable to “The University of Sydney
(Aust. Lit. Fund).”
Newcastle Harbor
“Abdul Assiz” : My prediction (B.
25/4/’56) that “unfulfilled promises do
not deepen shipping-channels, to which
every day brings down more silt” has
proved only too unhappily true in
the port of Newcastle.
The depth at Nos. 4 and 5 Basins was
shown on the harbor-chart to be 24ft. 3in.
on March 23, whereas a sounding taken
on May 16 by the master of the inter-
state freighter River Lodden gave 20ft.
6in. This depth allowed only partial
loading before the ship had to be shifted
to a berth at Nos. 10-11 electric cranes.
When the Minister for Public Works
visited Newcastle on April 27 depart-
mental officers had stated that the silting
was probably as serious as it would get.
Now it is worse in every part of the
harbor, and is an embarrassment to the
trade and commerce of the vital coal-and-
steel port.
On May 29 the Minister, answering a
question in the Legislative Assembly,
said that the Public Works Department
expected to have the Newcastle Harbor
siltation under control within three
months after the date on which the
dredges Richard Vo well and William J.
McKell were back in service after
repairs.
In view of the record to date of these
two vessels, and in view of the fact that
it took the Dutch dredge HAM 301,
working flat-out on a task basis, 36 weeks
to bring some relief to the harbor in
1952, it is unlikely that Minister Mc-
Grath’s prophecy will be very credu-
lously received by the coal and other
industries whose existence depends on the
maintenance of Newcastle Harbor in a
reasonable state of efficiency.
Titles and Honors
This year’s Birthday honors-list presum-
ably brought the customary amount of
satisfaction to those who figured therein
and corresponding heartburning to those
who didn’t but felt they should have.
In Australia the term “whom her
Majesty has delighted to honor” is modi-
fied a little; “has been permitted to
honor” is more appropriate. This is
due to the attitude of the “Labor” party,
which considers it a sign of sturdy
independence to set its face against titles.
Such an. attitude is worthy enough in an
individual; if Mr. Cahill, Mr. Gair and
their colleagues prefer to pass-up their
chance of a title or decoration, good luck
o Continued, on next page)


to them! But to refuse to recommend
honors for others who would value the
recognition and who, by comparable
standards, are deserving of them, is mere
pettiness masquerading as principle. In
the United Kingdom the Socialists have
outgrown their objections to such an
extent that their elder statesmen go to
the House of Lords almost as a matter
of course, but “Labor” Ministers in Aus-
tralia, although more at home in striped
trousers than in bowyangs, still stick
to old prejudices in the matter of honors.
One result is that knighthoods, like
the death-sentence in some States, have
become largely a matter of luck, depend-
ing on the political party in power. How
important this is depends on how impor-
tant one considers knights are. The
number of persons affected is not large,
but distinguished citizens in perpetual
“Labor” States such as Queensland and
N. S. Wales may be pardoned for feeling
that in one respect their citizenship is
of less value than that of a Victorian or
South Australian of equal standing. Still
more does this apply to high-ranking
public-servants in States where the
“Labor” ban applies. Few public
servants achieve knighthoods, but the
companionships and orders which are
bestowed for service are valued by the
recipients.
An example of this pettiness is the case
of the Chief Justice of N.S.W., Sir
Kenneth Street, whose name appeared in
last week’s list —not on the recommenda-
tion of the N.S.W. Government, which
appointed him to the post six years
ago, but through the offices of the
Federal Government. Sir Kenneth’s
well-deserved knighthood was the sub-
ject of a comment by a “Labor” member
in the House of Representatives. E. G.
Whitlam, M.H.R. for Werriwa, criticised
the Federal Government for making the
recommendation, because, he said, it had
departed from all previously accepted
Constitutional procedures and because
“of the anomalies and embarrassment
which have flowed from the course
adopted by this Government.”
There were anomalies in Sir Kenneth
Street’s position before last week. All
his precedessors as Chief Justice and
Lieutenant-Governor of N.S.W. had been
K.C.M.G.s, and, with the exception of
the recently appointed head of the
Queensland judiciary, the present Chief
Justices of all other Australian States
have been granted the distinction.
Embarrassments? Who is embarrassed?
Not Sir Kenneth Street! The Cahill
Government? If so, it could have ended
its embarrassment long ago by following
precedent.
With strange inconsistency Mr. Whit-
lam, while criticising the Government for
its action, urged it to repeat the offence by
submitting the name of the Queensland
Chief Justice. But wouldn’t that
embarrass Mr. Gair? Perhaps that
gentleman will take the hint and save
himself further embarrassment and the
Federal Government from creating
further “anomalies.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Britain’s railways have abolished third-
class fares and carriages ; in future they’ll
be known as second-class. Sydney
trains still operate the dual-class system—
first-class fares and third-class conditions.
• •
A reader who holds land in French’s
Forest (Sydney) reports a horrible night-
mare. _ He dreamed a doctor had taken
out a miner’s right over the gravel in his
kidneys. ,
• •
Any extension of Commonwealth
powers under the Constitution must mean
a corresponding lessening of State powers,
yet the all-party committee set-up to
review the Constitution is purely a
Federal body. Whatever it decides will
in all probability be put to the State
Governments before any referendum is
held, so why not bring the States into
the original inquiry?
• •
When the Queensland Industrial Court
refused to hear claims for wage-increases
to railway-guards because, by refusing to
handle wool, they were on strike, the
A.R.U. State secretary expressed himself
“amazed” at the decision. He said that
unions had explored every way of lifting
the “black” ban on wool, but had found
that this could not be done unless the
shearers’ dispute was resolved. “Every
way of lifting the ban” means, of course,
every way of lifting it except lifting it.
• •
The Boltes have dug-in their toes over
the Arbitration Court’s 10s. basic-wage
increase. A string of other financial
burdens have been accepted in recent
weeks ; and, in any case, the court had
laid down that this rise did not neces-
sarily apply to wages fixed by State
authorities.
Under Cain legislation Vic. State
employees get c. 0.1. rises; before the
recent decision they had a margin of
£1 Is. over Federal awards. They’ll
continue to get the c. 0.1. increases, but
not the ten-bob.
This has bought a spate of union pro-
tests, and one, from the trammies’
secretary, just missed the mark. “Most
unfair when politicians are helping
themselves to higher salaries,” said
O’Shea. He forgot that those were
Federal rises, too.
• - •
In 1947 Cahill’s former chief McGirr
promised N.S.W. house-hunters 90,000
homes in three years. Last week Cahill
promised that by the end of this year
every person who applied for a Housing
Commission home before the end of 1947
will have been offered one. That,
presumably, represents nine years’ pro-
gress.
• •
’Twas a proud day for the Melbourne
City Council when the Lud Mayor
revealed that the council’s project-book,
containing “all the latest information on
no less than 62 different projects,” was
up-to-date “for the first time in the history
of the council.” It would be an even
prouder day for the council if, say, two
or three decades hence, it could announce
that all the 62 projects had been actually
carried out.
• •
Exhibiting obscene photographs is a
punishable offence; exhibiting news-
paper-posters about obscene photo-
graphs isn’t. Old John Norton might
well have been proud of the man who
wrote last Thursday’s poster for his
successor’s “Daily Mirror.” Under the
name of a Sydney artist (in small letters)
it proclaimed in the boldest type the
poster would take, “Dirty Pictures
Charge.”
• •
Radio “hams” have tough lives —and
their wives have worse ones. But P.M.G.
Charles Davidson seems to be making
things unduly tough for those fans abroad
who may call-up Canberra amateurs, who
have just been allotted the call-sign VKL
He has suggested that in using the new
sign they’ll “be permitted to learn some-
thing more of Australia’s historical and
political development through contact
with the A.C.T.” That’ll lam ’em!.
At its annual conference the Victorian
A.L.P. decided to seek the removal of
compulsory-unionism from the party’s
Federal platform. Another plot against
Cahill?
• •
Bad and foolish laws have a tendency
to set people looking for ways to get
around them. This seems to be happen-
ing in Sydney in respect to the ban on
petrol sales late at night. Some
service-stations have found that by
registering as clubs and enrolling
taximen and other habitual night-
drivers as members they can reap
a good harvest. Although they sell no
liquor every customer takes a few gallons
for the road. The proprietors claim it’s
legal; the Department of Labor and
Industry says it’s not. The courts will
decide.
• •
On May 28 another chapter in history
was closed with the formal transfer to
Indian sovereignty of the French estab-
lishments of Pondicherry, Karikal, Mahe
and Yanam; a fifth establishment,
Chandernagore, had already been trans-
ferred. Persons born in the territories
and resident there at the date of the
cession automatically became Indian
nationals, but have the right to retain
French nationality by making a written
declaration within six months. Provision
THE PURSUING HAND
has been made for the preservation of
French cultural influences, and French
will continue as the official language
“until such time as the representatives of
the people decide otherwise.”
• •
“Collins-street”: Those who like to see
a brake put on the party-machines
occasionally will regret the decision of
Charlie Mutton to seek readmission to
the A.L.P. For 15 years he has
occupied a seat in the extreme comer of
the Vic. Assembly on the “Labor” side.
He was elbowed out of the Coburg selec-
tion in 1940, stood as Ind. Lab., won,
and has held the seat ever since. He has
always voted “Labor” in the House, but
his mere presence in his lonely eyrie was
a continual reminder to officials of all
parties that the electoral sheep can’t
always be nipped into line.
• •
Last week was Old Pals Week for the
Reds. Tito made it up with Moscow.
Togliatti made it up with Tito. Molotov
made way for an up-and-coming
successor.
• •
While debating with Joe Arthur on
2GB whether the Doyle commission
should be reopened, Eric Baume referred
to Doyle’s habit of parking his car in the
car-park at N. S. Wales Parliament
House. Arthur replied, “So do half the
doctors in Macquarie-street and half the
solicitors in Phillip-street.”
• •
“Mugga Way”: There may be more
than ordinary significance in the fact
that the U.K. central Office of Informa-
tion has just issued a survey of economic
development in the Commonwealth,
showing an impressive pattern of the
actual and potential strength of this
“family of nations.” Coming just
before the London conference of Prime
Ministers which is to review the stand-
ing and objectives of the Commonwealth
in the world of today and tomorrow,
the publication should be of value. It
points out, for example, that the Com-
monwealth accounts for a great part of
the world’s output of primary commodi-
ties, with half or more of the world’s
wool, jute, cocoa, tea, gold, nickel, man-
ganese and asbestos, between a third
and a half of the output of rubber, rice,
tin, chrome and oilseeds, and between
a fifth and a third of wheat, sugar,
butter, copper, lead and coal. The
manufacturing output and potential
is also reviewed, including mention of the
fact that India, even before independence,
was, after Japan, the most industrialised
country in Asia.
• •
Federal “Labor” caucus seems to be a
combination of long-division and vulgar-
fractions.
“In the ACT”: Federal Executive of
the Libs, has joined the popular clamor
on public-service costs and has
“requested” the Government to set up a
committee like that of the House of
Commons or the Hoover Commission “to
investigate Commonwealth expenditure,
particularly in regard to business and
trading activity, and the Public Service.”
That’s a good start, and the response of
Ministers may be informative. The
executive is also to make a detailed
review of the national economy (which
the Prime Minister may regard as some
encroachment on his own preserves) so
that the party’s views can be presented
to Cabinet before the Budget session.
• •
The N.S.W. Government is reported
to be thinking of offering a £200,000
hotel as first-prize in its State lottery.
If that fails they might throw-in a gravel-
mining lease of the basement of the
Commonwealth Bank.
• •
Extracts from a speech by the Hon.
A. A. Alam, M.L.C., in which he
expressed himself “proud to belong to
the greatest political party the world has
ever known”:
The Australian Labor Party was con-
ceived in the womb of the people and has
the blessing of the Divinity What other
explanation can there be for its profound
success in the face of virulent opposition
from powerful material interests? A
sewer would be crystal clear in comparison
with the foul campaign of opponents of
Labor... .The Divinity was responsible for
Labor’s success Individually, honorable
members opposite may be human, but,
collectively, they are always the same—
negative, reactionary, cruel sadists....
Labor also was responsible for the intro-
duction of compulsory education, which
made the people of this country literary
giants compared with those of some other
countries If honorable members lived
for another thousand years they would not
see measures introduced to equal the
humanitarian legislation brought down by
the Lang Government.... all the social
legislation in the world came from New
South Wales, Australia under the Aus-
tralian Labor Party system those who
represent Labor in the legislative halls of
Australia must gain their position by ability
and merit. None but citizens of the highest
integrity and ability are chosen to represent
the workers of this country and to fight for
them.
After all that it is tragic to think that
the Federal A.L.P, should imagine it
necessary to inquire into the bona fides
of the people responsible for selecting Mr.
Alam and his Heaven-sent associates of
the N.S.W. “Labor” party.
• •
A note on Europe:
With Tito definitely back on the side of the
U.S.S.R., his spiritual home, Moscow now has
restored its corridor to the Adriatic and once
more the Iron Curtain bloc has triumphed over
Western diplomacy. The main purpose of the
first phase of the “soft war” in Europe has been
won. Molotov, the last of Stalin’s closest
favorites, has officially handed-over the detail of
his work to a younger man, the editor of
“Pravda,” who has really been doing it since the
Khrushchev-Bulganin visit to, Belgrade last year.
France, with its Socialist Government, is leaning
towards Russia. Western Germany, with the
ageing of Dr. Adenauer, is showing dangerous
trends and not fulfilling its defence obligations.
A new juncture has arrived in world affairs.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A FRIEND who has spent most of his
life in the Far East assures me that
Chinese soldiers never fight in wet
weather, and I’ve read in various
historical works how the condottieri of
old couldn’t hire soldiers for their cam-
paigns if anybody was likely to get hurt.
All the same, one of our Army’s adver-
tisements that I scanned the other day
rocked me: it offered security as a bait
to those who might be interested in a
military career.—“Maitri.”
❖ $
“Eureka”: In police-raids on gambling-
joints a big percentage of the culprits are
laborers. In a baccarat raid 41 people
were acrested: five women, all domestics,
24 laborers, nine clerks and one lonely
salesman. It’s about time laborers’ unions
began to discipline their members': this
sort of thing is getting laborers a bad
name.
❖ ❖ *
“Cascade”: A mild, slight frock-
manufacturer and, member of the City
Council stunned Melbourne editors by
—according to some newspaper-reports—
urging his colleagues to axe some trees in
Collins-street. The scribes did not stay
stunned for long. When they recovered,
the front-pages looked more excited than
since the Queen flew in from Tassie.
“Removing trees from Collins-street
would be like taking the Harbor Bridge
from Sydney or wiping out London’s
Trafalgar Square to make way for a new
garbage-destructor,” opined one front-
page editorial. After he had been brought
face-to-face with some of his critics, and
some of his friends had threatened to
shoot him, he signed a declaration in
favor of trees and went back to Flinders-
lane, where there are only lamp-posts,
to reflect that anybody can make a frock,
but only God can make a tree.
♦2+ ❖ ❖
“Ailsey”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) City
Mission runs a peripatetic Sunday-school
that as few as half-a-
dozen children can
attend—on the kerb-
side, in an old garage
or stable, or in halls.
A team of missioners
give half-hour Scrip-
ture - instruction.
There is a regular
round, and the
youngsters know the
timetable. Once a
year they are given a
picnic.
“Collins St.”: They
might be struggling
to fill the Common-
wealth Loan, but the
porcelain - fanciers
always have some-
thing under the
mattress, and they
cheerfully found
£13,000 for the won-
derful Payne collec-
tion auctioned by
Leonard Joel and Josh
McClelland in Mel-
bourne. A Chelsea
rabbit, common to
early Chelsea, that I
was told would bring
15 or 20 guineas, was
knocked down at 100
guineas, giving the
buyers from Sydney,
Adelaide and Hobart,
as well as several
hundred locals, a
foretaste of how deep
they would have to dig. They paid £260
for four Derby figures of children; £3lO
for a pair of gold-anchor Chelsea figures ;
£250 for three tea-caddies and only £42
for a Liverpool Delft puzzle-jug. The
jug, made in 1733 and the oldest article
in the sale, spilt its contents when lifted
to the lips and was inscribed: “Here,
gentlemen, com try your skill; I’ll hold
a wager, if you will: That you don’t
drink this liquor all, without you spill
and lett some fall.” The auctioneers
firmly declined to permit demonstrations.
Hence the miserable 40 guineas.
❖ ❖ %*
“S.M.S.”: With fares on Sydney trams,
buses and trains due to rise at any tick-
of-the-clock, a friend of mine, in order to
save, bought a pair of walking-shoes.
Price, £6 19s. lid.
“Well, to put it bluntly, Cartwright—fours company, six is a crowd!”
“Double X”: Irish bulls can still
bellow. A well-known Queensland cleric
is reported as saying, in reply to Sir
Charles Darwin’s advocacy of birth-
control for overpopulated countries, “If
his own birth had been prevented he
would probably have felt it was a great
loss to the world.”
* * *
“Doynest”: A friend told me that he
had advertised for about a month for a
girl to look after the telephone, type
letters and attend to callers at his office,
without getting a single inquiry about the
job. “What,” an acquaintance asked, “did
you advertise for? A typist? That’s
useless; take my tip and advertise for a
receptionist with typing experience.” My
friend did ; from the 20 applicants he
made a first-rate selection. A similar
vacancy arising in my own office, I
scrapped my usual typist ad. and appealed
“But, my dear, he Was just like the 'Reader s Digest ’ —he Wouldn't
take ‘ No ’ for an answer."
for a receptionist with typing. My tele-
phone rang all day with inquiries for the
job.
♦l+ ij*
“Ear Wig”: I notice that the High
Court is being asked to make the delicate
decision whether the N.S.W. Electricity
Commission should pay £2,400,000 or
£4,887,000 for the Balmain Electric Light
Company. Whether the High Court or
even the Privy Council has any jurisdic-
tion in this case is somewhat in doubt,
as I read in the “Sydney Morning Herald”
(25/5/’56) that in the Land and Valuation
Court hearing last December:
Mr. Justice Superman based his assess-
ment on the profit earning capacity of the
company.
If Mr. Justice Sugerman felt that the
importance of the case warranted such an
international, nay, universal, authority’s
taking his place on the Bench, ordinary
mortal tribunals might well think twice
before presuming to question any
decision there arrived at.
% &
“Rix”: We eventually got Davy
Crockett restored to his rightful place
among the hills of Tennessee, but now
“Young Abe Lincoln” and “Big Jim
Bowie” have appeared on the scene. Next
on the list could easily be A 1 Capone or
Lucky Luciano. Think of the savings this
could mean in textbook bills in America:
all that will be necessary to give the brats
a history-lesson will be a couple of 10-
cent songsters and a broken-down piano.
❖ ♦> *l*
“Buskin”: Latest Melbourne theatre
scheduled for a face-lift is the historic
home of vaudeville, the old Tiv. in
Bourke-street. Carpenters will follow
directly on the Kathleen Dunham
Dancers show, and will have the house
to themselves for quite a while. Stream-
lined, spring-cleaned and all the dear old
obstructing posts removed, it will re-open
with a top-line show, top-secret at present,
just in time for the Olympics in
November,
“Lorna Doone”: “Tabba’s” remarks
(B. 23 /5 / ’56) on car-locks reminds me of
the surprise of any passengers I may have
that I do not always lock my car. It’s
a well-known make ; the keys can be
bought easily. I always locked the lady
until, on a dark night, I unlocked her,
opened the door, and saw by the light
thus occasioned the different upholstery
which told me that it was not mine. Being
* n . a crowded thoroughfare, I felt the arm
the law upon me (almost), and I was in
sucb a tw b that I couldn’t lock it a ga ,n -
So I left it, located my own car thiee
models away, and departed. I n bet there
was one motorist who thought, Could ve
sworn I locked her! ”
“8.J.L.”: The Nasho guard-commander
and the G.O.C. (B. 16/5/’56) recalls a
fateful day on Salisbury Plains in 1940.
The battalion was one of three con-
glomerate shows formed from dills,
drunks and drongos discarded from
A.LF. units in England, plus the rawest
of reinforcements. At Hastings House
a staff-officer was greeted with a cheery
“Good-morning, Dig” by a guardsman
shaving by a hedge. The Brig, himself
was startled, later in the morning, to see
the soldier on duty outside H.Q. hail a
newsboy, buy a paper and begin reading.
Striding out to deal with the matter him-
self he was shaken to his lowest ribbon
by the guard’s calm greeting, “News is
crook again today, sir, isn’t it?” The
entire guard was sent home in' disgrace
at noon and a special one requisitioned
from another unit for the remainder of
the day. Despite the rumpus that ensued,
only a few short weeks went by before
the orderly-officer called out the guard
for inspection at 2200 hrs. and a reinforce-
ment, on his first tour of duty* raced out
and fell-in at the end of the line, at ease,
in pyjamas.
»+♦ ❖ ❖
“Jaydee”: Overheard in a chain-store:
Fifteen-year-old male shop-assistant to
female supervisor: “Mrs. X, what is the
usual thing at a wedding after the
minister pronounces the couple man and
wife?” Mrs. X, after a puzzled pause:
“Why—the couple usually kiss.” M.S.A.:
“That’s what I thought, but last Satur-
day I watched a wedding through the
church window. After the couple were
pronounced man and wife the audience
cheered, but the man and girl didn’t kiss.
I was never so disappointed in all my life.
The age of chivalry is certainly dead!”
+> ❖
“Allan B.”: A 15-year-old aboriginal
girl in a Victorian orphanage is to be
given a home in Melbourne and will be
trained in singing at Melbourne Conser-
vatorium of Music; she has won high
praise in numerous contests. The Mel-
bourne couple who will take her into
their home, with two children of their
own, will also pay the Conservatorium
training fees. At the Con. the girl will
probably come under the direction of
aboriginal singer Harold Blair, now
teaching there
DREAMS COME TRUE
“President of the N. S. Wales Metal Trades
Employers’ Association, Mr. S. E. Barratt, says
automation will affect no more than 10 per
cent, of the industry in Australia, and that
‘the shift in employment would be no greater
than the present rate of labor turnover, which
is 6.8 per cent.’ ”
When working-hours began to drop
To forty down from forty-eight,
The workers felt they shouldn’t stop
Till thirty-hours became the rate.
Employees quivered with elation ;
Employers all deplored the fall;
Then came the news of Automation —
No one would have to work at all.
But dreaming, on achievement, sours:
The worker then was heard to sob :
“Alas, those happy forty-hours!
That envelope! That dear old job!”
“No men to be engaged or sacked!”
Employers said. “By God, that’s funny ;
No compo. and no Factory Act —
Unless there’s disappearance-money !”
Now comes the disillusionment:
Australian works need not expect
A change of more than ten per cent.,
And this, will have no new effect.
So back to work both parties go,
The worker safe from his ideal,
The boss not much surprised to know
That only nightmares can be real.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


THERE are fairies at the bottom
of my garden! While tidying-up
the front lawn I went to pick up what
looked like old newspapers under a
bush and found half-a-dozen bottles of
the best (beer)—each bottle separately
wrapped. I wonder if the person who
put them there knows where he left
them? If he comes back and doesn’t
find them I hope he will blame the fairies
at the bottom of my garden. —“V.O’S.”
* ❖ ❖
“S.M.S.”: In Sydney Diana ten Hove
and Diana Perryman are playing in “The
“That's her husband."
Reluctant Debutante” and Diana
Davidson and Dinah Shearing are’ in
“The Rivals”: must be the instinct for
taking a bow.
❖ ❖
“D.”: A Melbourne housewife who
had been paying a shilling a pound for
potatoes with as good a grace as possible
since she received, with the small bags
she bought, an • assurance Victorian
potatoes were being sent to starving
Sydney, made an unexpectedly brief trip
to N.S.W. and stayed at a pleasant,
second-rate hotel near King’s Cross. The
first morning she was served with her
bacon-and-eggs a large number of
unordered chips. That night she dined
at a rather better hotel. Halfway through
her meal the young man at the adjoining
table announced to the waitress he
wouldn’t pay for his crayfish-mayonnaise
because it was chiefly mashed potato.
CHe didn’t.) Then she returned to Mel-
bourne to read gleeful reports from the
potato-country that potatoes were bring-
ing £75 a ton and the price was expected
to rise because they were needed for
suffering Sydney!
“Ilean”: Notice outside an Adelaide
cafe: “Hot three-coarse meals served
here” —catering, no doubt, for those who
like roughage in their diets.
♦♦♦ *i*
“Uramao”: When an Auckland (N.Z.)
theatre-manager of 60 was on his way
home early in the morning after Saturday
night’s show two thugs who evidently
knew who he was knocked him about,
injured his head and made off in a car
with his bag, which contained bacon, eggs
and half-a-pound of butter.
<4 ♦>
“Mac Hoots”: I boasted too soon about
knowing how to cope with Sydney bar-
flies (B. 23/5/’56). Another of the species,
dark, hangdog and surly, bailed me up
near Circular Quay. “Give us thrup-
pence!” he growled without any wheed-
ling preliminaries, and in a tone of hoarse
menace that left no room for argument.
I did ; in fact, as was obviously expected
of me, I made it a shilling. I should say
that, making so small a demand in so
commanding a style, this bloke never
misses.
* *
“P.0.M.C.”: Yarrasiders are lucky if
their large hospitals have only just
started charging visitors’ fees (B.
25/5/’56); some of Sydney’s have been
doing it for 10 years or so. Sometimes
the fee covers tea-and-biscuits; in any
case, its extraction does one’s conscience
more good than buying a lottery-ticket.
* ❖
“Joanne”: Baptists in N.S.W. have
been celebrating the 125th anniversary of
the first Baptist service held in Australia
—in, of all places, a pub. The “Sydney
Monitor” of April 27, 1831, reported:
“A Mr. McKaeg has commenced preach-
ing in the long room at the Rose and
Crown Inn, Castlereagh-street, on Sunday
last (24th). A few persons of Baptist
persuasion attended.” Australia s first
Baptist church was built on land granted
by Governor Bourke in Bathurst-street,
Sydney. First minister was the Rev. John
Saunders, who, with his bride, sailed in
the George Hibbert with 144 women-
convicts from London on July 24, 1834.
*:♦ ❖ *
“Emtee”: Dr. Coombs’s reluctance to
proffer any more than £lOOO-reward for
information leading to the conviction of
the fiver-forger is understandable. After
all, his own note-printery isn’t made of
money; it only makes it, to the tune, I
understand, of no more than six- or
seven-million profit (in singles) annually.
“Willpar”: How
many of us know
of the complexity
of the pagan art of
cosmetics? Lip-
stick, powder and
rouge are for ama-
teurs ! A 24-page
pamphlet from the
wife’s bedside
table instructs me
that there are “de-
lightfully fragrant
beauty - pick - up
creams containing
fresh eggs to allevi-
ate that fatigued
look,” others con-
taining herbs “to
help re-firm the
looseness of the
jaw-line and the
crepey skin of the
neck,” powder
which affects the
complexion so that
it “seems to be
illuminated from
within with a
pearly glow that is
buoyantly alive,”
eyelash-preparation
“to help turn them
prettily upward,”
even soap “deli-
cately curved to fit
M’lady’s hand and
deliciously scented
to infatuate the
senses,” also a
solution that must
be applied to the
cheeks “with a
gentle downward
stroke so that if
there is the least
bit of downy fuzz it
will lie invisibly in
place,” and some-
thing else for “oili-
ness and erup-
tions.” After this,
I looked closely, very closely, at my
mate ; was I blind, I wondered, or had
she been clever?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ardoyne”: “What are the ingredients
of macaroons?” was one of the questions
in an inter-universities quiz-session: the
Tasmanian University team said grated
coconut, were ruled incorrect, and lost to
Melbourne Uni. The Tasmanians’ sub-
sequent appeal was upheld, the revised
marking putting them one point ahead
of Melbourne and giving them the right
to represent Australia in the final of the
Commonwealth Universities contest. The
Apple-Islanders really knew their maca-
roons : in England, where the quiz-
question was devised, they’re made of
almond-meal, but the Australian variety
consists of coconut. Now, alas, we all
know.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ <♦
“Me Me”: Most aptly-described differ-
ence in positions. “I am a manager’s
assistant, not an assistant-manager,” the
competitor told the radio-compere on a
well-known programme. “Is there a
difference?” “My word! The assistant-
manager is in line of succession ; I just do
all the odd jobs the manager doesn’t want
to do.”
WHERE THERE’S A SWILL....
“Ten-o’clock closing in N.S.W. has
emphasised Aiistralia’s need for ent j emen
equivalent of England’s ‘Time, gentlemen,
please,’ which is ineffectual either as a warning
or an order.”
Bung should be of great good cheer.
In convivial atmosphere
Tossing the quip with lasses and with
matrons;
Suds-sales ever on the rise ;
Never a need to advertise .
To lure into, the beer-garden his
patrons,
For the stuff just sells itself ;
Raking-in a heap of pelf — .
You’d think that he’d be wallowing in
gladness,
Never a smile from off his phiz.
Yet the fact is, that this biz
Of his can cause him bitterness and
sadness.
He can’t get his customers out!
They insist on one more shout —
What can he do, especially if he’s in it ?
The clock nears ten. He pales ;
Nervously he gnaws his nails,
Getting more frantic with each passing
minute,
For he knows the once-dread call,
"Time, gents, please,’’ means naught at all
To anyone, sober or approaching
tightness,
For it seems the blowers of froth
More than ever now are loath
To heed a tocsin smacking of polite-
ness.
Pity poor Bung ) He’s left
Stuck in a stick that’s cleft;
The pathway through the hops has
become darkened.
Though he fuss and fume and fret,
And plea, cajole and threat,
Harangue and bluster, it all goes
unhearkened.
Yet Mine Host can clear the place —
In fact, there’ll be a race
To leave —without resort to supplicat-
ing :
Tune the radio, to the bull,
Switch the volume on to full,
And blast ’em with some Canberra
debating.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
ANXIOUS MOMENTS
TTAVING to listen to so many of Mr.
Jack Davey’s radio-sessions, my
home-life being so arranged that what-
ever my children want my wife sees that
they get, I have developed an anxiety for
Mr. Davey which persists sometimes into
my sleep, and becomes a nightmare. I
have no complaint about the sessions as
they are ; very suave, very smooth, often
brilliant; but suppose someone were to
speak out-of-turn? , . . One of my night-
mares goes like this:
“And now our next contestant. Your
name, sir?”
“Swiddens. Geoffrey Swiddens, Mr.
Davey.”
“And where do you want to fly to?”
“New York, Mr. Davey.”
“It’s a long way. But Blowfly Trans-
oceanic Services will get you there in six
hops. A hop a question. Why do you
want to go to New York?”
“I want to join my girl-friend, Mr.
Davey. Haven’t seen her for a month.”
“She’s in New York, eh? Think she’s
feeling lonely, too?”
“Yes, she’s only got her husband with
her.”
“Eh? Oh. First question coming up:
How many pennies in the Commonwealth
Bank?”
“It’ll only be a guess, Mr. Davey. Two
million?”
“Ah, What a pity, Mr. Swiddens. Next,
please . . . and your name, Madam?”
“Amaryllis Pudden.”
“Sweet name; sweet girl. And where
do you want to go?”
“Mexico, Mr. Davey.”
“You have friends there?”
“I hope not, Mr. Davey. Before
coming out this evening I lit into my
husband with a meat-chopper, you see,
and”
“Speak up, speak up. Come closer to
the microphone. Why, you’re such a tiny
thing! You’ve taken to your husband
with a chopper, eh?”
“Well, I thought if I went off to Mexico
maybe the police would forget about it.
He wasn’t any good, you see”
“Now, don’t get excited. This is your
first appearance before a microphone?”
“Yes, and it’s the first time I’ve done-
in my husband, Mr. Davey.”
“I thought so. Now, take it calmly.
There’s nothing to be excited about.”
“No, Mr. Davey. I’m a user of Ampol,
too, Mr. Davey. And Persil and Dulux.”
“Is that so? Well, listeners, I’ll tell
you what I’ll do with this little lady.
She’s obviously in a hurry, so I’ll make it
one hop and one question to Mexico. Be
calm, Mrs. Pudden, and think this one
over carefully before replying: How
many toes on your left foot?”
“Five, Mr. Davey.”
“Five? Yes, five it is! Well, well, now ;
she got it! Give the little lady a hand.
You’ve had an eventful evening, Mrs.
Pudden.”
“Yes, Mr. Davey . . . Mr. Davey
“Yes?”
“Mr. Davey, I don’t know if I ought
to tell you, but”
“Speak up, Mrs. Pudden, so we can
all hear you.”
“Yes, Mr. Davey. Mr. Davey, the first
swing I took at him I missed and cut
three toes off my left foot. I forgot in
the excitement” .
“Ah, what a pity! What a pity!
You’re used to having five, I suppose.
Yes, we’re all creatures of habit. Well,
Mrs. Pudden, I realty don’t know what
to do about you.”
“Yon could make it my right foot, Mr.
Davey?” ...
“No ... no . . I’m afraid not. Ive
got all those other contestants to think
of ... But I don’t like to see you go away
empty-handed, Mrs. Pudden; so here,
with the compliments of the sponsors, is
a present for you: look, a brand-new,
shining, Mafeking meat-chopper!”
“Oh, Mr. Davey! It’s just what 1
wanted. You see, my old one” r
“Yes, I know, Mrs. Pudden . . . Next
contestant . . .
There my anxiety nightmare leaves-cfi,
with Mr. Davey farewelling Mrs.
Pudden; she with the meat-chopper held
firmly and expertly by the handle. I fear
I’ll have another nightmare tonight.
S WILLIAM.


The pick
of ihe bunch
* since
It *" A
(yiloit
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
The knightly accolade descends:
K.C.M.G.
Kenneth W. Street, who parallels exactly the
career of his father, the late Sir Philip Street:
Lieut.-Governor and C.J. of the Ma State.
His father also notched the Knight-Commander-
ship of the dual Saints.
K.B.E.
Lieut.-General William Bridgeford: The
Army’s former top Quartermaster, C.-in-C.
8.C.0.F. and G.O.C. Eastern Command, and
now holding the top executive post for the
Melbourne Olympic Games. A Duntroon
graduate, he was Regular Army for 38 years.
Ivan N. Holyman: A.N.A.’s chairman and
managing-director, with fingers in a whole oven-
ful of industrial pies. Apple-Islander by b’irth,
returned from War I A.I.F. service with
captaincy and M.C.
Kt.
Ernest Daryl Lindsay, of the famous paint-
and-pen family, and the second of the clan to
attach a handle to the name —brother Lionel
got his Kt.B. 15 years ago. Director of Vicr.
National Gallery for 14 years until a few months
ago, S’ Daryl is now member of Commonwealth
Art Advisory Board.
Arthur G. Warner: Transport Minister for
the Cabbage Garden. Leads Government in
Legislative Council. Directs companies (includ-
ing his own baby, Electronic Industries, Ltd.)
when not untangling Vic. traffic-snarls and
beating-off Opposition snarls.
Harold G. Alderson: Amateur athleticism
wouldn’t be quite the same v without him. Got
into an outrigger in his early days and sculled
his way in record time into half-a-dozen
amateur-sport posts. Managed Australia’s
Olympic team to Berlin in 1936. Has been
chairman of Australia’s Olympic Federation for
years.
Edward R. Knox: As C.S.R.’s chairman has
been piloting that industrial giant into a lot of
new fields. Also dabbles a bit in banking and
in:urance and trustee-concerns.
Norman Myer: Chairman and governing-
director of Melbourne’s big emporium. Retailer
by birth and training, philanthropist and putter-
lighter of civic affairs by inclination.
Frank S. Tait: Shares managing-directorship
of the Firm and of J. and N. Tait, entrepreneurs,
with brother Nevin, and also goes in for music-
publishing and fireworks.
• 0
“D.” farewells an Olympian:
Frank Beaurepaire died suddenly in a
barber’s chair in Melbourne just on the eve
(August) of his election as Lord Mayor in the
city’s Olympic year, the dream of his later days.
He Had been one of the protagonists of the
Games for Melbourne, and present Lord Mayor
Frank Selleck had agreed to stand aside. Even
the younger councillors—anybody under 50 is
reckoned a young man at Melbourne Town
Hall —had decided to stop any further dusting
and to welcome him in, although he was 65.
He was a millionaire, but he never gave me
the impression of being greatly interested in
money. I was in his office in Latrobe-street a
few days before he died —he was, of course,
matey with journalists, since he had been
swimming-reporter for Melbourne “Herald” —
and, although pleasant and comfortable, the
office was not at all pretentious. In the last
few years its occupant was giving away much of
his income. He was asked to give £lOO for a
University physical-education centre and gave
OLYMPIC-PROMOTER
£200,000. It was not until after his death that
his most recent gift—of £15,000 to build
athletes’ rooms in Albert Park—was disclosed.
He represented Australia abroad six times, and
at three Olympics—once making a comeback
after nine years. He was discharged from the
A.1.F., but got to France as a Y.M.C.A. com-
missioner. He began making tyres in 1934, was
a tiger for work, and the company was successful
immediately.
He was a hard-hitter, too. He met the late
Keith Murdoch (his former boss when he was
the “Herald” swimming-writer) at an official
dinner-party a year before Murdoch died. “I
lelt the ‘Herald’ because you wouldn’t give me
a rise of three-pounds a week,” he said, “and
now I’ve got more money than you.” Nothing,
apparently, makes millionaires wince more
sharply than the reminder of richer millionaires.
Still, they remained very good friends. Indeed,
Beaurepaire could hardly have had an enemy.
0 0
For the stream of instrumental virtuosi
and singers who each season tour Aus-
tralia for the A.8.C., concertgoers and
listeners can thank William G. James,
the commission’s Federal Director of
Music, who annually combs England, the
U.S. and the Continent for his material,
working mostly about four years ahead.
Nobody has better qualifications for the
job ; he’s not only had wide experience
on the concert-platform but has been
associated with the entertainment side of
broadcasting in Australia since its incep-
tion.
Born in Ballarat (Vic.), he got his first
toehold on the musical ladder when he
went to Melbourne Uni. Conservatorium,
where he was a fellow-student of Bernard
Heinze, and from which he gained first-
class honors for composition and piano-
forte-playing. He followed this with
study in England under Arthur de Greef,
CELEBRITY-SELECT OR
and made his debut in 1920 at Queen’s
Hall under the baton of Sir Henry Wood.
Thereafter he was a regular performer
at the famous “prom.” concerts and with
orchestras up and down the country. In
the early ’twenties he toured Australia
with coloratura-soprano Toti dal Monte
and Australian baritone John Brownlee ;
after which he took the plunge into the
ether-waves.
A prolific composer, he has turned out
a ballet, “By Candlelight” (produced at
London’s Savoy), two volumes of “Aus-
tralian Christmas Carols” (recorded on
Columbia l.p.s and outstandingly success-
ful in the U.S. and England, as well as
here), a set oL Bush Songs which caught
the public fancy, an operetta, “The
Golden Shanty,” and a host of other songs
and piano-pieces. Spare-times at cricket
and golf.
• , •
Ray Whiting: When the Incomparable
Max showed his cartoon of the Prince of
Wales (the present Duke of Windsor) at
an exhibition in London, few would have
tipped him as a future knight. There
was, in fact, a scream of shocked and
indignant horror from press, pulpit, Pro
Bono Wotto and all the rest. For,
although speculation was rampant on
whom he would marry, the Prince was
extremely popular. Max Beerbohm’s
drawing was of an ancient, white-bearded
Edward tottering down the aisle sup-
ported by crutches and his bride, the land-
lady’s daughter. Delightfully naughty of
Max, and, as at that time the Prince had
not even met Mrs. Simpson, how
prophetic!
“Doynest”: Shades of St. Paul, who
wrote emphatically to the Corinthians:
“Let your women keep silence in the
churches, for it is not permitted unto
them to speak,” and “if they will learn
any thing, let them ask their husbands at
home ; for it is a shame for women to
speak jn the church”! A woman has been
installed head of the Congregational
Union of England and Wales; the Rev.
Elsie Chamberlain, a dress-designer until
she became a minister 18 years’ago. In
1946 she was appointed the first woman
padre in the R.A.F.; later she married
an Anglican clergyman.
• •
“F.”: The dailies have been commenting on
the “links with Australia” of the new U.K.
High Commissioner, Lord Carrington; referring
to his great-uncle, the Marquess,of Lincolnshire,
having been Governor of N.S.W., 1885-1890,
his grandfather marrying Miss Edith Horsfall
of N.S.W., and his own father having been
bom in Australia. For the sake of the record,
no Marquess of Lincolnshire was ever Governor
of N.S.W. —he was then Lord Carington, spelt
with one “r.”
A Bulletin leader of December 12, 1885,
welcomed him with characteristic pugnacity,
mentioning his “ample private income, ”
“various country seats and a town house,”
membership of half-a-dozen London clubs, and
his being a boon companion of the Prince of
Wales, with a blast on the principle of importing
Governors, and an unkind aside on the preceding
one: “Suppose that on his arrival, seven years
ago, Lord Augustus Loftus had gone to sleep—
a feat which some colonists were rude enough
to suggest that he actually did —and never woke
until the other day when he left our shores,
how much worse off would we be?”
Leafing through the files, one finds various
notes on the Governor’s activities, and on the
manners and customs of the times. For
instance: “On the occasion of Lord Carington’s
first visit to a Sydney theatre, that astute
citizen Mr. John Bennett secured all, or most,
of the seats in the dress-circle at five-shillings
each, and, with 'a liberality which shows that
public spirit is still alive among us, let them
at a guinea a head.”
Coming to the new High Commissioner . . .
He won the Military Cross in War II
(Grenadier Guards). From 1951 to 1954 he was
joint Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries and chairman of the
U.K. Myxomatosis Committee, and since 1954
Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of
Defence; he also breeds beef-cattle. His wife
is a daughter of Sir Francis McClean, the
aviation pioneer, and the Miss Edith Horsfall
who married his grandfather was a daughter of
John Horsfall, of old Widgiewa. Horsfall
bought the property and Merino stud from
James Cochrane in 1887 and continued breeding
Tasmanian-type sheep, using Scone and Esk
Vale blood.
• •
Commander N. H. S. White, R.A.N.
navigation specialist, has made a new
landfall, this time in control of W.A.
Naval Depot, H.M.A.S. Leeuwin. He
was in cruiser Perth when she was sunk
in War 11, and was then a p.-0.-w. in
Java for over three years. For some
time after the war he was on exchange-
duty with the R.N. Navigator in the
polar-expedition ship Wyatt Earp during
the preliminary search for an Australian
base-site in the Antarctic, he has for the
past 20 months been Fleet-Direction
Officer in H.M.A.S. Sydney. Promotion
to present rank came through while he
was steering the yacht Moonbi to victory
in the last Sydney-Hobart race.
0 0
“Uramao”: The highest scientific
honor in the U.S. —election to the
National Academy of Sciences has
been conferred on Dr. Francis J. Turner,
a New Zealander who was for many years
on the Otago University staff. Winner of
the Hector Medal and a Fellow of the
Royal Society of N.Z., he’s now Professor
of Geology at Berkeley University, Cali-
fornia.
0 0
Alexander James McLachlan (passed
on in Melbourne at 84), former P.M.G.
and Leader of the Senate and Acting-
Attorney-General, was a specialist in
Constitutional law —he led the Australian
delegation to the League of Nations in
1928 and signed the Kellogg Pact on
behalf of the Commonwealth. A gradu-
ate of Adelaide University, he was early
in his career a legal associate of present
S.A. Chief Justice Sir Mellis Napier. He
helped found the old Liberal Federation
(now the L.C.L. party) and became its
president. He was chief of the Caledonian
Society, and chairmanship of S.A. Foot-
ball League was another labor of love.
He also was director of several
A book he published in 1948, An F.A.Q.
Australian, rather too modestly assesses
his own career.
• •
lain McDougall has written verse, pars,
and articles for The Bulletin under his
own name and pen-names—“ Dick
Turpin,” “Inall,” “Lartuen”—and has an
unusual background of journalism and
executive experience. After a spell of
jackerooing near Nyngan (N.S.W.)
immediately after leaving school, he
joined the Meat Commission as a clerk;
PUBLICITY-PROJECTOR
then, in 1939, at 18, he joined the Second
A.1.F., served in the Middle East with
the 2/Ist Bn., was wounded, and found
himself back in Civvy Street. Knocked
around a bit on a city daily, then became
assistant to the late W. C. Cambridge,
general-secretary of the N.S.W. Farmers
and Settlers Association, and succeeded
him as general-secretary (1946 to 1949).
Newspaper-work again, with “S. M.
Herald” and Melbourne “Argusf’
branching into public j relations. He’s still
in business as a p.-r. consultant, and is
also founder and managing-editor of the
“Australasian Irrigator,” which began (in
December last year) because, as lain says,
“the opening was there”; a monthly
magazine circulating on a subscriber-basis
in all States and in New Zealand, all
about irrigation. “Not,” lain says with a
shade of emphasis, “the official organ of
anything.” Hon. sec. of the Sane
Democracy League of Australia since
1953, he’s 35.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 63, William
Thomas Trethewey, sculptor. Two of his best-
known works are the war-memorial in Cathedral
Square and Captain Cook’s statue in Victoria
Square, Christchurch. For the Cook statue a
12-ton block of marble was brought from Italy;
it took two years to finish the great navigator’s
image.
At 83, at Launceston, Thomas William
Maloney, who first practised law in 1894 and
was solicitor to the U.L.V.A. for 40 years.
In Perth, at 81, Albert C. Rust, veteran news-
paperman and social-welfare worker. Chief-of-
staff of Perth “Daily News” when he left to
take over managing the Sunset Home for aged
men.
At Burnside (S.A.), at 82, William James
Adey, former Director of Education in S.A.
Before he retired in 1939 he had been in educa-
tion for 52 years; he was awarded the C.M.G.
in 1935. Post-retirement activities included War
Loans Organisation work and membership of
Adelaide University Council, the Libraries
Board of S.A. and the Tree Planters’ Asspcia-
tion. He was also chairman of the .Repatriated
Soldiers’ Children’s Education Board, and a life-
member of the Australian Council for Educa-
tional Research. He was the first Headmaster
of Adelaide High School.
In Perth, at 61, Leonard Foulkes Glaskin, Old
Digger who wore khaki again as a dental-officer
with the War II A.I.F. A keen yachtsman, he
was a member of the Mounts Bay (Perth)
Sailing Club.
In Melbourne, at 75, Andrew Reginald
Stewart, whose association with the city’s
printing-trade had extended over almost 60 years.
He was managing-director of McCarron, Bird
Pty., Ltd., and chairman of directors of the
Australasian Temperance and General Mutual
Life Society,


*
9QOA CAM I t
use if, My man/
* £4M £TA£f 'Kmonb'OOX
Prfc £vAmt4Cr aft£&
€(GHT *»• *** * •
" *
SoT Pon t &o
BUHHCrIhIQr OH (T*
y&oGseuf, uwy, ohtiu
tf 7 g &€£H uP fad AT
c.&\3f a ws£k» , f/
NO FRIVOLITY


ABORIGINALITIES
T'HE foremast of the former Port Phillip
J pilot-ship Akuna may, during the
Olympic Games, carry the 18ft. Olympic
flag which will fly above the flags of the
competing nations. Finding a suitable
flagpole has been difficult, for it must
stand in the arena without stays. The
Akuna is being broken-up for scrap, and
her owner offered to lend the mast for the
Games if the committee would have it
removed from the ship. The difficulty
of removing the 85ft. tapered tubular-
steel mast may mean that another pole
will have to be found. The Akuna was
the luxury-yacht of the Governor of
German New Guinea befqre World War
I, when she became a warship. An Aus-
tralian naval-party saw her mast when
she was concealed in a New Guinea
river in 1914, and took her by surprise
while-her German master was shaving.—
“Crunch.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The social programme
arranged by the Local Authority for Mr.
Bigwig’s visit to the little bush-town was
lagging sadly out of schedule, and both
Bigwig and his audience were obviously
bored. The shire hall was noted for its
acoustic qualities, and as Bigwig leaned
over and spoke to the chairman, the
thrilling phrase- sounded thinly but
audibly to all within its precincts: “Well,
what’s the drum now, squire?”
* * * *
“Old Mac”: Daintree River (Q.)
farmers have blamed the freshwater, or
Johnson, crocodiles for attacking their
cattle, but I doubt if that smaller saurian
is the culprit. In many of our coastal
rivers the saltwater, or estuarian, croco-
dile may be found far upstream from the
head of the tidewater, and most of the
“big-mob cheeky fellas” that were shot in
the Pioneer River in the early days were
living in the fresh water. At Mirani, near
where the railway bridge was washed
away in recent floods, a mailman had his
horse dragged from under him while
fording the river, and at one place, far
above the tidewater, the skulls of large
saltwater crocs, shot in the vicinity, were
used as garden “ornaments.”
* * * *
“An Chuidh”: Was very interested to
see the word “bugeen” used in “The Tales
of Percy Mumbulla” (B. 9/5/’56), and
wonder if it’s really an old aboriginal
word. Similar words come from Britain.
Buggane (Manx), a storm spirit; buid-
seach (Scottish Gaelic), a witch or wizard ;
bugaboo (Lowland Scottish), a hob-
goblin ; bugge, bogey and bogle (all
Scottish and meaning a ghost or spirit).
Are there other similar aboriginal words
for similar subjects? Feel that the simi-
larity comes from either a common root-
word or a loan-word taken very early.
* * * *
“Jas.”: Came across four large spider-
webs thrown between low bushes side by
side and about 9in. apart. In the centre
of each crouched a sizeable spider, its
body in varying shades of grey and the
long legs decorated with orange bands.
From the set-up it was obvious that the
two centre webs wouldn’t snare many
victims, and their occupants certainly
looked on the lean side. All four webs
were a beautiful amber color to blend
with the foliage. I searched the locality
but nowhere found other foliage of like
color.
“Mackville”: Old Chick was our sole
breeder of turkeys till Jonesy began to
rear the overgrown fowl, and the old
fellow regarded the opposition as sheer
presumptuousness. So he was both
pleased and scathing wjjen Shirty, his
neighbor, brought along a dressed gobbler
for an evaluation. “What did Jonesy have
the hide to charge you for that?” he
demanded. Shirty hesitated. “D’you
“Stop acting like a big goof! You re not Wimbledon-class yet !"
reckon it’s worth fifteen-bob?” he asked.
“Fifteen-bob for that scrawny crow!”
Chick exclaimed. “Half-a-quid an’ he’d
be robbin’ y’j” Shirty pointed out the
size of the bird and requested that the
poultry-critic “feel the weight.” But the
old bloke was adamant. Ten-bob was the
very limit of its value. “Ah, well, if
you’re sure that’s all it’s worth,” said
Shirty, “here’s your ten-bob. Me foxy
killed it in y’r paddock a while ago.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: A scientific feature-writer
instances South Africa’s export-trade in
tannin as a case where that country stole
a march on us by cultivating the Aus-
tralian wattle. He may have something
there; still, W.A., at least, has over
18,000 acres of brown-mallet plantations,
and many times that area of natural
forests—and the mallet yields far more,
and far better, bark, from the tannin
aspect, than any wattle. In fact, W.A. has
a sizeable overseas trade in tannin, pro-
duced from mallet-bark and wandoo-
timber. The South African industry arose
accidentally. The wattles were first grown
there as ornamental trees until someone
decided that their tough timber would
provide ideal props for the Jo’burg
mines. They were planted to supply
that need, the props were barked, and
the heaps of bark going to waste prompted
research. Tannin-extraction was started
as an experiment and has developed into
an industry worth millions of pounds.
* * * *
“Sparks”: At the Captain Cook Exhi-
bition at Greenwich a 200-year-old
“soup-cake,” perfectly preserved and said
to be still eatable, was described as the
forerunner of modern dehydrated foods,
and similar to those used by Captain
Cook and his seamen on their voyages.
I suspect that some of the soup-cakes I
sampled from my war-time emergency-
ration were made about the same time.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Fijians are very careful of
their vowel-sounds, as also are the Euro-
nesians or part-Europeans (as they are
called by Europeans; half-castes, or
“Kai Lomas,” by the Fijians). The better-
type Euronesian children attend the
European school, and it is noticeable that
European children copy their speech,
and not vice versa. Also, adults be-
come more careful with their speech, so
that people recently arrived from Aus-
tralia often unwittingly announce that
fact as soon as they begin to speak.
* * * ) *
“Swelpme”: Eh, what’s this, “J.P.C.,”
about Nature not having endowed the
rabbit with weapons for self-defence
(B. 16/5/’56)? There’s nothing wrong
with Bunny’s armament; it’s his fighting
spirit—or lack of it —that’s his weakness.
His teeth and claws are bigger than a
ferret’s, he is stronger and weighs about
Mutilation of aircraft is a court-martial offence
three times as much, yet he will cower
in a comer and allow the bloodthirsty
little-’un to methodically murder him.
But, like many another coward, Bun can
be a ruthless bully when he’s on top.
Bush-rabbits fighting—or, rather, one
doing the fighting and the other copping
it —can be savage enough.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: No, birds are not
color-blind (B. 2/5/’56); at least, day-
birds aren’t. In other ocular respects, too,
birds have left the rest of the animal-
kingdom standing, developing their
powers of vision at the expense of other
senses. A bird’s eye
occupies the bulk of its
head and is far more
complicated than ours,
beating us hands-down
in focusing and range
of vision. Where we
depend for change of
focus on muscles which
control the pupil, birds
have this, and also have
the ability to adjust the
whole of the front of
the eyeball. That makes
for rapid adjustment of
the focus when shifting
the vision from far to
near objects, and vice
versa. Where we have
one sensitive point on
the retina, most day-
flying birds have two,
enabling them to
operate their eyes either
in partnership or inde-
pendently, with the
result that some birds
—such as the pigeon,
whose eyes are placed
on the sides of the head
—can view practically
their entire surround-
ings without moving
the head. The only area
they can’t cover at a
glance is a small arc of the circle directly
behind them.
“Bass”: Can anyone claim to have
actually seen a fork-tailed swift roost-
ing, and in what position? Lately arriv-
ing in unprecedented numbers in W.A.,
they’re equipped for roosting on vertical
surfaces by having all four toes forward,
which gives them a grip on an upright
tree-trunk from which they can take off
easier than they would from the ground;
and no bird is equipped for a function
it doesn’t perform, or which it’s incap-
able of performing regularly. The birds
stay with us some months, so they must
roost. There’s another point I’d like to
see cleared-up—how their wings work.
They get more speed than can be
accounted for simply by the extra length
of wing, and the assumption is that the
wings beat alternately instead of in
unison. The movement’s too fast for
the eye, but it could be caught by a high-
speed camera.
• * * *
“Riorp”: Touching on reports of New
Australians indiscriminately potting
native birds, I suggest that a sound
naturalisation test would be to find out
first whether the applicant would shoot
a kookaburra. Those who wouldn’t
could be said to have become truly
Australian in spirit and ready for the
legal process. Those who’d shoot —well,
they’ll return to their former lands one
day, anyway.
* * * •
“Chink”: It may be that the cattle-
egret reported from Norseman (W.A.) is
a solitary roamer, but “A.J.S.” (B.
9/5/’56) is astray in claiming the speci-
men to be “the only one to have been
seen in Australia.” Actually, this small
egret with the flush of orange-buff on
the underparts of its otherwise white
plumage has been in Australia since at
least 1933—when it was imported from
India to the Kimberleys of W.A. to com-
bat cattle-ticks —and it is now common in
various parts on both sides of the conti-
nent. It has, in fact, been reported lately
to be breeding fairly freely as far south
as the north-east of N.S.W., and speci-
mens have been seen also down near
the Murray. Have all these colonisers
descended from the Kimberley contin-
gent? Not plurry likely! A better bet
is that they, or their parents, came down
from Asia, through the islands, of their
own accord. Anyway, they are revealing
here the ancestral attachment to cattle,
perching on the animals’ backs and feed-
ing about their feet, and in general they
appear to be a useful addition to Aus-
tralia’s fauna.
MOSQUITOES
There was a stretch of water where the roots,
arched in the murk, sunflecked as though with
coin,
beckoned us in, having an air
of Louis Becke, Jack London, Loti, too . . .
How quietly our oars made rhythm as we crept
into that Stygian tunnel mangroves made.
Evening’s ablaze now on the sleepy wave;
odors, leaf-whispers, are the same,
and the familiar drifts of shell lathered with
foam . . .
O, how like home
the folksong of the sea!
The gloom grows rich with stars
and the world seems made for memory and me.
A thousand keen mosquitoes gather here
sharply injecting memories of you
and all the painful magic that we knew
together, where the long reef knifes the sea.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


GYPROCK
fireproof plaster
wallboard builds walls and
ceilings in half the time
1
Gyprock comes in convenient
easy-to-handle sheet sizes.
• Nailed straight on. It saves
time waiting for other trades.
Recessed Edge Gyprock gives
plaster-smooth walls and ceil-
ings. Recess is "buttered” with
cement, reinforcing tope Ts
pressed into place.
Surface it smoothed and edges
feathered out. When cement
dries, joins become invisible.
Gyprock takes paper or paint.
It is vermin-proof, fire-proof
and can never crack!
GYPROCK
18 sheet sizes
6,7, 8, 9,10,12 feet lengths
by 3', 4' and 4'-4%" widths
Manufactured by CONCORD PLASTER MILLS
Marketed by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Material* Division
Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
X-
JACKSOPI 4
dSimJYAff
pitot.
t»AO€
MAW*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers* Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
What do you mean
by ‘Scotch 9 ?
• •
P.y
BELLS
100% SCOTCH WMIS*'*J
OISTILLCO AND Btt ND ' W
'jINfcOUANO m
D, STILLERSn«™SCO
SCO^
S** 1
rll >lP
There are many very good
Scotch Whiskies. But when
a connoisseur thinks of
‘Scotch’ he thinks of Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky. Bell’s
are an old firm of independ-
ent distillers. Independent
to go on producing whisky
possessed of all the skill and
knowledge of generations.
Try some yourself. Savour
the smooth, elusive flavour
of a whisky carefully blend-
ed, well-matured. If you’re
a connoisseur Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky will delight
you.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell Sons Ltd.
Distillers, Perth, Scotland
Established 1825
“ANY mail for Mrs. Black?” the
middle-aged gent, asked at the
country post-office. The official wanted
an authority. A flash of gold teeth and
disarming smile: “Oh, it’s quite all right;
she’s with me, you know! ” She was, too,
de facto ; white. He was black ; his name
was White! —“Oug.”
* * * *
“Galah”: My father is rather given to
speaking part of his thoughts out loud,
forgetting that only he knows what he
has been thinking about. At breakfast we
had been talking about the neighbors.
Dad looked up and inquired brightly, “I
wonder if they are what we call shovel-
nosed sharks?” It turned out that he
had read a story in which someone went
sailfishing in the West Indies.
* * * *
“Wandana”: One of South Australia’s
veteran bricklayers, Charles Hannah, is
off on a trip to England to see the
standard of work there; he claims that
S.A. bricklayers are better tradesmen
than those in other States because the
Croweaters usually erect a better class
of brick homes and buildings. The 76-
year-old expert started-off at the age of
13 by becoming an apprentice in Perth
at five-bob a week. His tally of bricks-
a-day used to run to about 3000 on a
2Jin. wall, and some of his craftsman-
ship may be seen in several of Adelaide’s
best buildings. He’s one of the few
remaining tuckpointers, an art that’s
gradually passing out.
* * * *
“Eureka”: The old bloke was giving
his grocery-order at the general-store.
“I’ll have a tin of Kidman’s blood-
mixture, too,” he said. I wasn’t sur-
prised to see the vacant stare the assistant
bent on him. After all, I hadn’t heard
that term for “cocky’s-joy” since the
black stump was so-high.
* * * *
“Taarblin”: Reading the story of “The
Witch of Wellaway,” by M. L.
Skinner, which The Bulletin pub-
lished a month or two back,
must have revived memories for some
West Australians, as it did for me. Miss
Skinner was English by birtii, but spent
the greater part of her life in W.A., and
was for some years nursing in the country
districts in the early years of this cen-
tury. The first time I met her was in
1906, at Wagin, where she and her sister
were running a
private hospital,
but I don’t re-
member much
about that meet-
ing, as I was a
new - born babe
and did not know
that a future
author was
attending me. She
died in York
(W.A.), one of the
oldest towns in
the State, in 1955.
* *
“Motuku”:
“ Birdwatcher’s ”
blackbird (B.
2/5/’56) would
only need to be
slightly tone-deaf
and color - blind
to mistake a
young thrush for
one of its own
brood. The blackbird does not acquire
the yellow color of bill or eye-ring till
it is more than a year old, and the young
birds and the females are much lighter
in color than the males, which are more
decidedly black than crows or ravens, as
their feathers have a flat finish and do
not reflect the light. The feeding of a
young thrush should not worry Papa
Blackie, as he always helps with the
hatching and feeding of his own chicks.
* * * *
“Benbow”: There’s a slip somewhere
in “Old Mac’s” cyclonic history (B.
4/4/’56), which sets the loss of the Saint
George off the N. S. Wales coast in 1924.
I saw her condemned in Butaritari
lagoon, Gilbert Islands, in 1929. The
Australian and New Zealand Shipping
Register lists only one ship of that natne.
Built at Sunderland in 1895 and regis-
tered at Sydney in 1899, she had not been
in dry-dock for seven years when con-
demned. All that time she had been
an inter-island steamer in the Gilberts,
belonging to On Chong and Co., now
defunct. She was condemned following
a survey by the engineer of H.M.S.
Labumam, one of the flower-class sloops
of the R.N., which was showing the flag
in the islands at the time.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: We were build-
ing a new homestead and shed on a
station, and amongst the stuff brought
out of the shed was what had once been
a fine American buggy. I bought it for
five-bob, sawed-off the spokes and put a
match to the rest. Those spokes were
made of best American white-hickory—
ideal for tool-handles. That was in 1925 ;
I’m still not halfway through the lifetime
supply I acquired.
WET KATOOMBA
Tear down the mask —
All stay yet sicken of the play;
So much of mist,.dark scheming
As on a Hamlet stage, and day
Disdains companionship with lignt,
Making out trees as ghosts,
Dim and distorted to the sight
With dripping arms that loom and taoe,
Not warring with the wind
Or set above leaf-stencilled shade;
And who was yesterday supreme,
Poised god-like on a mountain-crest,
Today rejects it as a dream—
Denies his rain-washed throne
And, frowning, stumbles from the stage,
An actor clowning and alone.
N-S.W.
BERNARD PEACH.
THE LAGOON
tV/fY favorite lagoon is a large
boomerang-shaped stretch of the old
river-bed backed-up against the steeply-
rising mountainside. It is reputedly
bottomless, or nearly so, and there is an
air of mystery in its tranquillity.
Curiously, it has never been known to
support a bunyip, though at one time a
very large Murray-cod defied all efforts
of local and visiting anglers for several
years. There never was a doubt about
its great size, for it’d been seen several
times basking near a redgum log.
Old Jimmy Redway, who owned the
paddock by the lagoon in those days,
still swears he lost 10 poddy-calves there
before he woke up to where they’d dis-
appeared.
On the odd occasions the cod was
hooked it left behind broken lines. Then
the year of the big flood the hoary
monster departed and was not heard of
again.
Nowadays the only fish are shoals of
small redfin, which provide sport for less-
fastidious anglers and provender for a
truly remarkable assortment of wild-
fowl.
Cranes and spoonbills stalk the shallows
expectantly, alert for a swift, accurate
jab at the first sign of underwater move-
ment. Shags dive and reappear suddenly
at unexpected places. When disturbed,
these gourmands are often too heavy to
take-off without disgorging. The flock
of red-billed waterhen are always there,
ready to make for shelter in the reeds with
tails bobbing; from there to shriek
defiance.
Swans —picture of grace on the water
—are constant visitors, and ungainly peli-
cans make this a random port of call.
Black-duck, teal and wood-duck feed
quietly on the lagoon at times when guns
aren’t blasting. It’s a prolific breeding-
ground for ducks.
Large, green frogs are plentiful in the
tussocks about the lagoon, and may be
caught by the score at night by torch-
light. They’re probably the main reason
why there are so many black-snakes
around, and they’re the biggest, thickest,
nastiest and most shiny black-snakes I
ever met.
There’s a yarn about a visiting duck-
shooter blowing one of ’em in two with
a charge of No. 3, and the front half
chased him over the fastest couple of
hundred yards he ever legged. I don’t
believe it, of course, but I do know he
had to bribe one of the locals to go back
for his gun.
BARDIE.


Act now to protect
Your Estate
through the years ahead
For your dependants’ sake you have a duty to appoint
an experienced Executor—such as the Union Trustee
Company. During nearly 70 years of administration
of every class of estate the Company has amassed a
fund of experience such as no one person could
achieve in a lifetime. To pastoralists, the expert
services of the Company’s Pastoral Inspectors in each
of the three Eastern States is readily available —to
provide valuable “local” knowledge.
Union Trustee services are comprehensive, charges
are moderate. A senior officer will gladly explain
these services at a personal interview—or you may
prefer to write for a copy of the Company’s free
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated la Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. li. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
' 2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G.. M.L.C. (Chairman) 18
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C.. MLC •
Bertram J F. Wright M.B.E. Manager: J.’ G H. Shipway!
Tllema »n. Pastoral Inspector:
I rank Laird. District Representative for Newcastle: H B,
Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: ,T. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman)*
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon-
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson. ’
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT 17
COSTS, CREDIT, CAPITAL AND CONFIDENCE
'T'HE course of economic
A events in Australia is becom-
ing clearer. On the Stock Ex-
changes prices are at their
lowest level for approximately
two years. From June, 1954,
until July, 1955, there was an
almost unbroken ascent in the
prices of industrial shares and
ordinary shares generally. From
that peak of July, 1955, there
has been a steady decline in
share-prices, until they now
stand at about the level of July,
1954.
In the slide from the peak of
July, 1955, there has been no
slump of a dramatic nature.
There has been no “Black
Friday” or anything of that kind.
There , has been no panic. The
most that has happened has been
an occasional flurry that has
lasted two or three days, and
then there has been some
recovery.
In accepting the official index
as a guide to Stock Exchange
behavior one accepts a general
picture, of course. Some con-
cerns over the past two years
have practically gone down for
the count. Others have shown
spectacular rises as a result of
takeover and- other activity.
Others still have had the odd bad
year or particularly good year,
and the sharemarket has taken
appropriate action in its appraise-
ments. But, on the whole, the
official index is a pretty true
guide to what has happened to
investment shares.
In the industrial field itself,
a position more normal
(in many ways) than any-
thing we have known for 17
years is developing. Supply is
reaching up towards demand,
and in some cases is outstrip-
ping it. Greatly expanded
manufacturing-capacity is in
some cases bringing keen compe-
tition among secondary indus-
tries. The labor position has
eased; there is no difficulty in
getting unskilled labor in most
manufacturing industries. Skilled
labor is still in keen demand,
but it also is easier to get.
Significant in the supply-and-
demand position on the indus-
trial marketing side, for the first
time in 17 years galvanised-iron
is freely available in most States
of the Commonwealth, and there
has been a reduction in the price
of sheet-steel as a result of
greater plant-capacity at Port
Kembla (N.S.W.). There has
been a marked drop in the
demand for water-piping and
gas-piping since the middle of
1955. Wire-netting production
is in excess of demand. In the
case of both galvanised-iron and
piping, Australia is now an
exporter and a dollar-earner,
with the domestic market ade-
quately catered for. And that
is something to take notice of!
, What makes this position
somewhat disconcerting is that
it has developed at a time when
overseas markets are not as
favorable as they have been, apd
when, internally, credit-
restriction is under way. In
other words, if it had occurred
two years ago it would have
helped not only to restrain
inflation by making homebuild-
ing, etc., easier and cheaper,
but it would have eased the
balance-of-payments position.
Australia has been paying
through the nose for imported
steel and steel products, and
that has made homebuilding
more costly and has added to
inflation generally.
In Western Australia there
has been a more pronounced
business setback than anywhere
else. It is particularly dependent
on wheat, and the oil-boom has
been something of a fizzer.
Everywhere costs are becom-
ing more acute, and the situa-
tion will become more difficult
as the Federal 10s. wage-increase
takes nationwide effect.
The position is one, as has
been stressed here, for more
sober assessment, and one which
will put management and
government to the test. The
great problem is costs of pro-
duction, for with stable or
reduced costs of production
there is still a potential demand
for most essential goods now
appearing to be “surplus.”
There are great prospects
ahead of Australian industry
still if costs can be reduced.
Lower costs and ample produc-
tion will create credit, capital
and —confidence.
John Fairfax Shares
TN the unofficial market the
1 shares in John Fairfax, Ltd.,
opened at between 21s. and 225.
last week, which is slightly below
the figure indicated previously in
dealings in Associated News-
papers ords.
Oil in South Australia
pROM L. Owen: The report
1 that “light oil” has again
been encountered at Wilkatana,
and the revival of a 30-year-old
rumor of the striking of oil at a
depth of less than 300 ft. in a well
at Tailem Bend, near the mouth
of the Murray River, restores
interest in the circumstances
which led to the first search for
petroleum in South Australia
and in areas on the borders of
that State.
In 1911 attention was drawn
to the occurrence on the sea-
board, between the Eyre Penin-
sula and Victoria, of masses of
asphaltic material sometimes
weighing as much as a hundred
pounds. These masses are not
found above the storm-wrack,
and it is accepted that they are
wave-transported. It has been
assumed, without any proof, that
the material is derived from sub-
marine seepages, and, without
chemical and physical tests, it
is not possible to disprove this
assumption. On the other hand,
the fact that similar material
occurs on all Australian beaches
(and on all others near shipping-
lanes which I have had the
opportunity of studying) con-
siderably lessens its specific value
with reference to S.A. oil
prospects. This is especially so
where the configuration of the
shoreline (as on the eastern limb
of the Great Australian Bight) is
ideal for the trapping of flotsam.
Shortly after the recording of
these asphaltic masses, the
presence of a dark-brown elastic
substance, which formed a thick
coat on the shores of the Coo-
rong lagoon on the salt-pans of
Kangaroo Island, was noted and,
again, was assumed to be a
petroleum derivative. Its
chemical analysis very definitely
indicated that it was nothing of
the sort. The material was given
the name of “Coorongite,” and
is now known to consist of the
remains of algae mostly
Elceophyton which form a
scum on the surface of the
lagoon waters during the winter
months. In summer this scum
is left, by the retreating waters,
as a coating on the salt-pans,
already formed by evaporation.
The scum, to some extent, is also
transported by wind. Similar
material is found in many other
parts of the world, notably in
Turkestan, where deposits buried
in sands 12 miles from the
nearest water are said to reach
a thickness of almost 40ft.
However, on this meagre
evidence, several small com-
panies Were formed, between
1912 and 1916, to search for oil
in S.Ak, and wells were sunk
near the coast, spreading from
"Now he wont STOP talking !”
the Eyre Peninsula to the Vic-
torian border, without striking
anything more than unconfirmed
traces of oil and gas. Inland,
the results appeared to be more
promising. Near Leigh Creek,
a diamond-drill test-bore, put
down for coal in 1890, recovered
core-samples containing free oil
and, near Lake Frome in 1908,
inflammable gas was reported in
an artesian water-bore.
The current search for
petroleum at Wilkatana has pro-
duced small but unquestioned
samples of crude petroleum.
These samples, however, possess
characteristics which place them
definitely in the category of oils
which have migrated through
very “tight” channels over long
distances and have been micro-
filtered, with selective loss of
some of the heavier fractions.
This fits in with either of the
two main conceptions of
the geological structure of the
country lying west of the
Flinders Range, neither of
which, incidentally, leads to any
great optimism as to the hope of
striking commercial oil without
a radical change in the methods
of exploration. The Pinnaroo,
Loxton and Tailem Bend loca-
tions are shots-in-the-dark. At
best, their hopes are dependent
on the correct interpretation of
geophysical data derived from
strata which are notoriously
misleading in this respect.
Goods More Plentiful
increased manu-
factoring activity in
Australia, often matching peak
demands in 1955, has risen to
record level, and has begun to
produce keen marketing condi-
tions in many products. So
reports the Industrial Division
of the Department of Trade
(Canberra). Lower export-
prices for some farm products,
as well as affecting financial
liquidity, have influenced the
level of demand, and also
probably engendered caution in
many business activities. Out-
put and capacity have continued
to increase, with relatively
lower labor requirement, while
the work-force has risen as a
result of natural increase and
immigration. It is now easier to
get staff nearly everywhere in
Australia.
Banking policy and the in-
creased Commonwealth sales-
tax and excise are expected to
continue to restrain demand for
manufactured goods.
Import-restrictions have had
little effect on the supply-demand
position for consumer goods,
and the restrictions are expected
to have most influence in restric-
ting the rate of expansion in the
manufacturing industry, especi-
ally by limiting the availability
of plant and equipment. But
most of these forces have yet
to work out their influences.
Reduced homebuilding in
some States has been compen-
sated for by greater commercial
building activity. Cement-
production has risen with in-
creased capacity, but demand
has not grown.
Prices of manufactured goods
are being pushed upwards by
price-increases in basic materials
(with the exception of some
textile-fibres and yarns), and by
cost-of-living increases in both
State and Federal awards. On
the other hand, intense competi-
tion in some industries has com-
pelled manufacturers to absorb
cost-increases, assisted by con-
tinuing improvement in pro-
ductivity.
But, says the Department of
Trade,‘industry is beginning to
feel a general pressure of costs
as prices of equipment, services,
labor and materials, which rose
at various times last year, begin
to pervade the economy. These
“creeping” cost-increases in time
reach a level at which the manu-
facturer can no longer carry
them.
Increasing Productivity
pROM “M.F.D.”: We might
have been able to get away
with the 40-hour week if the
McGirr Government in 1947
had given the workers to under-
stand that they must maintain
production at its previous level
and that this could be done by
the barest minimum of extra
effort each day. Instead, the
shorter week was handed out
with a kind of “You’ve done
well, boys, and can let up now”
gesture, and the result is that in-
stead of working a 40-hour week,
we work something less (and
sometimes a good deal less) in
most industries.
I don’t blame the workers
entirely for this many em-
ployers encouraged a don’t-care
attitude towards production by
advertising for staff on a five-
days-a-week basis, with time off
for shopping in the case of
female employees. They’re still
doing that to-day; and it prob-
ably has a great deal to do,
psychologically, with the grow-
ing demand for better working-
conditions, which usually means
a longer period for morning- and
afternoon-tea and an earlier
knock-off to wash hands.
When the boss displays this
leisurely attitude towards work,
you can hardly blame his staff
for thinking that production will
take care of itself. The grim,
unalterable fact, however, is that
it won’t; and how to drive that
fact into the minds of the
workers is one of the problems
that confront us to-day. The
fact that many firms are still
doing well despite the disinclina-
tion of their staffs to give of
their best is another reason why
(Continued on next page )


m
my money is
safely
invested at
Careful investors have already bought £1,250,000 of General
Credits Ltd. Ist Mortgage Debenture Stock. Short and
long term investments in General Credits offer interest
rates rising from 3}% to 7% payable quarterly free of ex-
change. Cumulative Stock carrying 6|% compounded on
yearly rests with currencies of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus
_ obtainable from all branches of Commonwealth Trading
Bank of Australia, Members of the Stock Exchange and
Offices of the Company.
LTD.
This is not a Pros-
pectus and does
not constitute an
invitation to sub-
scribe for the de-
benture stock
mentioned herein.
(Sponsored by the Automobile Fire and General
Insurance Company of Australia Limited).
Directors : Sir John Newman-Morris, C.M.G. (Chairman),
J. M. Ford, V. H. Stanley-Low (Managing), E. W. Cox,
John Glen, Eric Hughes, J. F. Hughes, F. G. Menzies,
C.B.E.
UNDERWRITERS : J. B. WERE & SON
4040
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
YOUNGHUSBAND Ltd.
SPEAKING at the 67th Annual General Meeting
of Shareholders, held Tuesday, 29th May, at the
Offices of the Company, King Street, Melbourne,
Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8., C.8.E., Chairman of
Directors, said: It is with great regret I report the
death in December last, of Mr. H. D. Hay, who had
been a Director for over 16 years. Mr. Hay had a
practical, lifelong experience of the land which
proved of great value to the Board. We all mourn
the loss of a sterling character and colleague.
I have to report that Mr. T. N. Mitchell,
C.8.E., Managing Director of Mitchell & Co. Pty.
Ltd., Agricultural Implement manufacturers, and
also President of the Royal Agricultural Society of
Victoria, has been appointed to fill the vacancy on
the Board.
GOOD SEASONAL CONDITIONS
In Southern Australia we have
once again experienced a very
satisfactory season, and in most
districts conditions generally are
now excellent, and a good lambing
seems assured.
However, high rainfall and pro-
lific feed can also bring with it
problems, and where foo.trot is sus-
pected, every effort should be made
to bring this disease quickly under
control.
STOCK: The number of sheep
being carried in Australia con-
tinues to increase ; the figure at the
last census taken in March, 1955,
being 130.8 million.
It is interesting to note that in
1046 we were carrying approxi-
mately 96.4 million; with the
increase since March, 1955, the
number should now be in the
vicinity of 134 million sheep.
Cattle numbers at the last cen-
sus taken to March, 1955, were
15.8 million, as compared with 15.6
million the previous year..
Our turnover of stock is an all-
time record for the Company. With
favorable seasonal conditions and a
steady market for both wool and
meat, stock prices have been very
firm, and good lines of store sheep
and cattle hard to acquire.
WHEAT: The amount of wheat
delivered to the Australian Wheat
Board for the year 1955-56 is
approximately 180 million bushels,
as against 152.75 million bushels
last year.
This year’s crop has resulted in
a much heavier return than was
expected throughout the season.
WOOL: During the year the Com-
pany sold 123,063 bales, as against
112,798 bales last year. Our re-
ceipts for the current season show
an increase of 9,206 bales, and
20,435 bales are carried forward.
Last year we carried forward 12,937
bales. The increase in receipts is
satisfactory, and shows that the
Company is receiving its share of
the increase in the larger clip now
being marketed annually.
There has been a further decline
in the average price of greasy wool.
For the first nine months trading,
it fell from 72.85 d. last season to
60.66 d. this season. This fall of
17% follows a drop of 12% between
the corresponding periods of 1954
and 1955, and is the lowest price
recorded since the 1948-49 season.
Despite the lower level of values
ruling, a good general inquiry has
been in evidence throughout the
season to date, and clearances at
auction have been on full lines.
Increased consumption in a number
of the major consuming countries
has helped to absorb the heavier
production, the Australian clip, for
the first time on record, being esti-
mated to exceed 4,000,000 bales this
season.
Most noticeable features of the
difficulties in handling the increas-
ing clip, and delays following
strikes have further jeopardised the
position. A free and normal flow
of wool is essential in the best
interests of both producer and
buyer if confidence is to be main-
tained.
Most noticeable features of the
present season have been the com-
paratively even price range for all
qualities, a large increase in the
amount of wool shipped to Japan
and France, and the decision of thd 1
British Government to reduce the
stockpile of wool already held in
that country. It is not anticipated
that this action of the British
Government will have any material
effect upon the market. It is inter-
esting to note that Britain, France,
and Japan have taken approxi-
mately 65% of the total wool ex-
ported from Australia during the
first nine months of this season.
The 1956-57 wool-selling season
will open in Sydhey and Perth on
August 27. In the past Adelaide
has always sold during the same
week, but on this occasion the
Perth centre —instead of Adelaide —
has been coupled with Sydney in an
effort to expedite sales in southern
centres.
Our wool receipts for the year
totalling 130,561 bales constitute a
record for the Company, as against
121,355 last year, whilst actual sales
were 123,063 bales, as against 112,798
last year.
GENERAL CONDITIONS: A fur-
ther good season promises practically
throughout Australia, which, of
course, is of the first importance in
this continent. Following upon an
unprecedented run of the good years
in succession, together with a record
number of upwards of 130 million
sheep returning this year for wool
alone approximately£2/10/ per head,
we should be truly thankful for a
bountiful Providence.
Whether Australia as a whole is
managing its affairs to the -best
advantage during this period of
remarkable good fortune gives one
food for thought.
In - effect, the sum-up of our
Prime Minister’s recent commentary
on the economic position of Aus-
tralia is that we are anticipating
the future with insufficient restraint,
an experience which is not without
precedent in our history over the
years, in fact, such, in the past,
seems to be the main pitfall in the
economic history of Australia.
That Australia has great potentia-
lities there is no doubt, but there
?re definite limits to how fast they
can be exploited, not the least of
which has proven to be finance.
At present, it appears we are invest-
ing just about double the amount of
our annual savings, and let us re-
member our saving's have increased
'considerably in view of the past
good seasons and good prices.
Present high costs, principally
brought about by the foregoing rea-
sons, are our great problem, which,
if allowed to increase or even con-
tinue, will bring about serious
repercussions. It is now apparent
that an increase of costs will price
us out of world trade altogether,
which can only mean ultimate dis-
aster. This has got to be recti-
fied and soon, even through sacri-
fices by all sections of the com-
munity. Does it not seem that
some caution is justified, having
regard to all these circumstances,
including world conditions? It is
generally unpopular to advocate a
steadier trend of affairs at such a
period, but there comes a time when
popularity is not the factor to be
considered, but rather the welfare
of the community in the future.
STAFF: I have pleasure in ex-
pressing the Board’s appreciation
of the work of the staff during the
year—their loyalty and interest we
always consider a major factor in
the successful results of the Com-
pany.
BRANCHES: Branches have been
opened during the past year at
Coleraine and Merino, in the West-
ern District of Victoria, and are
attached to our Casterton group.
many workers feel they can “let-
up” without jeopardising the
national welfare.
If the various Governments
feel that increased production
is necessary to our national and
individual well-being, why in the
name of commonsense don’t they
get together and devise a plan
for lengthening the working-week
by, say, two hours throughout
Australia for a trial period of
two years and then have a look
at the result? An additional two
hours a week won’t hurt anyone ;
but in terms of production it
could mean a great deal. If
employers and everyone on the
production, distribution and ex-
change side play the game the
result could be an appreciable
reduction in the cost of living
without any sacrifice of salaries
or wages. Even a child knows
we would then all be a great deal
better off.
I can understand the workers
fighting to the last ditch against
salary- and wage - reductions
while the cost of living remains
high ; but what is there in work-
ing an extra half-holir a day to
get anyone’s back up?
Nothing that I can think of. It’s
no use talking about increased
production unless we take some
practical steps to achieve it, and
I can’t think of any better or
simpler way than for us all to
work a couple of hours a week
extra for a given period and then
survey the results. If they are
good, let the change become
permanent; if disappointing, let
us try something else. But in the
name of commonsense let us do
something soon instead of con-
tinuing to talk about it.
The Shearers’ Strike
'T'HE local committee of the
Graziers’ Association at
Burren Junction (N.S.W.) has
resolved that all shearing em-
ployees and contractors working
under interim-award rates are
guaranteed continued support by
Burren Junction Shearing
Emergency Committee and sup-
porting graziers. So far arrange-
ments have been made to shear
53,000 sheep. There are operat-
ing in the district two New
England teams and one local
team at new rates.
The Burren Junction Shearing
Emergency Committee is com-
prised of C. J. S. Hunt, P.
Michell, C. Henderson, R.
Hardy, B. McKenzie, F. G. Mar-
shall, A. L. Doyle, S. Sendall,
G. Chapman and J. Ridley. Hon.
secretary is E. H. M. Barnet.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
THE Continent represents big
business to the travel industry.
Long past are the days when
the more venturesome traveller
avoided certain resorts on the
French coast and in the Alps
because they were “full of
English.” Europe no longer has
a playground where France and
Germany and Italy converge.
Europe is one gigantic play-
ground.
A vast fleet of prodigious,
hydraulic-braked coaches mono-
polises its highways and makes
light of its gradients, whisking
self-sufficient parties, usually
middle-aged and sedentary,
through many countries and
changes of scenery. Those who
prefer a more active leisure and
the clubable atmosphere of “14
days’ independent travel” will
happily renew old acquaintances
from previous years in chalet
communities by Lake Lucerne
or in the Engadine. And the in-
numerable true “independents,”
who make their own way by
car or otherwise, will scatter
themselves everywhere this side
of the Curtain. The resolutely
hardy, too, can still find
adventure in organised travel by
footslogging between mountain-
huts in the high Alps, by canoe-
ing down the Danube or by
trekking on horseback in the
Burgenland.
The intensity of the traffic
becomes more fantastic year by
year. August, the peak, accounts
for nearly 500,000 holiday-
makers crossing the Channel by
rail-and-steamer alone. Then
there are the airlines, air-ferries
and the chartered-plane services.
A new private venture operates
a coach-air-coach service be-
tween Victoria Station and Paris
at less than the third-class rail-
and-sea fare. And British Rail-
ways are to inaugurate a new
service which will transport
motorists and their cars direct
from Manchester to Dover.
A few words of warning to
intending Australian visitors are
not amiss. Do your European
touring before the end of June
or after the middle of September.
Give as much notice as you can
before booking your car-ferry.
And don’t expect too much of
the travel-agencies; the well-
established are over-pressed, and
some of the small ones are sus-
pect. It is well to keep your wits
about you when you change
trains or you might find yourself
in Innsbruck instead of Rome.
Rich and Poor
After bemoaning the plight of
the Little Theatres it is stimulat-
ing to record an experience of
this hardened but dissatisfied
playgoer.
On Monday he and his wife
went to the Winter Garden
Theatre to see the new farce,
“Hotel Paradiso,” which must
cost thousands a week in salaries
and overheads. They found it
entertaining and fairly amusing,
but a little less than breath-
taking.
The following night they went
to a converted house at Notting
Hill Gate to see “The Final Ace,”
a play by an amateur, produced
on a shoestring and having
among its actors some who had
rarely, or never, appeared before
on the stage. This time, instead
of sitting back and watching
famous actors deployed with
vast resources of money and
professional skill, they found
themselves leaning forward from
the sheer thrill of being carried
away. At times they forgot
completely that they were watch-
ing a play. #
The inference might be drawn
that the play is indifferent
and the other superlative. Not
at all. “Hotel Paradiso,” a 60-
year-old French classic of farce,
enriches our theatrical scene. A
large cast, headed by Alec Guin-
ness, Irene Worth, Martita Hunt,
Douglas Byng and Frank Pet-
tingell, is rich in style and refined
in stylism. Osbert Lancaster
provides entrancing costumes
and sets that are dramatically
ingenious as well as evocative.
And Peter Glenville, who has
also done the translation, pro-
duces with polish and finesse.
“The Final Ace” is the work
of a war-correspondent (Charles
Fenn) and deals with China in
the last war. A British briga-
dier with a reputation for cutting
through red-tape is sent out to
do the best he can to delay
the Japanese advance. He is
thwarted by the corruption,
treachery and chicanery of the
Chinese Nationalists, personified
by an unctuous general, and, to
a lesser degree, by the unimagina-
tiveness of a worried home-
sick American major. After
vested interests have prevented
the. demolition of bridges he
succeeds in blowing-up the
power-station, but only by
accepting the eager aid of the
local Communists.
It is an uneven play, without
much substance and melo-
dramatic in outline. The con-
trived love-interest between the
brigadier and the Chinese
secretary is ridiculous. Yet the
author communicates the back-
ground well, with easy humor,
and quite avoids a political
slant if there is an implied
moral it is only that corrupt
government engenders ex-
tremism. But what enlivens the
evening is probably the natural-
ness and freshness of the players,
from the amiable purposefulness
of Lloyd Lamble’s Brigadier to
the smiling hospitality of Mah
Guan Pang’s restaurateur, and
the cohesion and human insight
of Jack McNaughton’s produc-
tion.
This, like many others
still in manuscript, is not a
metropolitan play, but it does
succeed in bringing actors and
audience close together in
mutual interest and stimulation.


Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd.
invites you to discuss
this subject.
; DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
Sir EDWARD KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
JOHN DARLING, Alternate Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
JP'XECUTORS and Trustees are sometimes subjected to criticism because they are merely
carrying out the terms of a Will which is sadly out of date or which does not
correctly express a Testator’s wishes.
Is your. Will up to date? Perhaps you would like to discuss its terms with us. We
would be glad to arrange an appointment for the purpose. Thereafter your Solicitor
can do what is necessary towards any required alteration.
Full information on this subject will be freely given on application. Why not telephone
B 0377 and make an appointment for the purpose. A Senior Officer will always be avail-
able to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the Company’s helpful booklet
“Your Executor and Trustee,” be posted free to you.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OE ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd. —the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
' 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
WARREN D. MCDONALD,
Vice-Chairman.
S. G. McFARLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
COR the decade to the cJ,ose of accounts
A in 1955 the story of this G.I. group
was mostly one of expanding output and
earnings, held in check by shortages of
materials, skilled-labor and plant-
capacity. The sharp contraction of
£101,144 (25 p.c.) in last term’s combined
net earnings therefore surprised the
market.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords., which
eased from 33*. 6d. ex rights to a two-
for-three par issue in July, 1955, to 31s. at
the end of March last, fell sharply to 255.
6d. following publication of the accounts,
but has since strengthened to 28s. The
return at 28s. is 7.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.,
which has been an annual event for the
last 14 years. The 7 p.c. prefs. recently
sold at par. Including £24,589 of unpaid
capital, net tangible cover is £7 15s. prefs.
and 245. lid. ords.
Backbone of the undertaking, and
therefore of net earnings, is the two
original operating subsidiaries, Metters,
Ltd. (Sydney), and Metters K.F.B. Pty.
(Melbourne). From factories at Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth they turn
out a variety of stoves, baths, gas-heaters,
builders’ hardware, enamel goods, etc.
During the last couple of years the
spread of the co.’s net has been widened
to take in production and distribution of
radio- and television-receivers and
domestic refrigeration, all now highly-
competitive fields in which margins
generally are slender. A satisfactory
re)urn on capital employed will therefore
depend largely upon the volume of. turn-
over.
Two new subsidiaries have been set up,
and each is erecting a factory at Banks-
town (N.S.W.). Admiral Australia Pty.,
which will turn out radio- and television-
receivers, is a jointly-owned concern in
which G.I. has taken £lOO,OOO of capital.
The other partner is Admiral Interna-
tional Corp. (U.S.), whose television-
receivers, etc., are among the most
popular on the U.S. and Canadian
markets. The second subsidiary is
Sovereign Appliances Pty., which is
producing refrigerators from outmoded
premises and plant pending completion
of its new Bankstown factory in July
next.
Last term the Admiral co.’s products
had not got onto the market, the refrigera-
tion co. made an unstated loss, and the
easier tempo in home-building held turn-
over of the two old subsidiaries in check,
while some of the rise in raw-material
and other costs had to be absorbed. Also
the fall in the price of copper toward and
since the close of accounts might have
resulted in the inner reserve against stocks
being strengthened. It was this combina-
tion that brought the year’s declared
profit down:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> £> £,£*£,
1952 274,352 20,851 10p.c.=128,500 125,001 466,142
Depreciation written back, £42,380 .. 508,522
1953 239,080 20,851 10p.c.=150,921 67,308 576,830
Tax overprovided, £BO,OOO .. .. 655,830
Unexplained reduction, £18,913 ..636,197
1954 340,624 20,851 10p.c.=188,271 131,502 768,419
Unexplained reduction, £4397 .. .. 764,022
1955 407,074 33,278 10p.c.=188,270 185,526 949,548
Unexplained reduction, £4030 .. .. 945,518
1956 305,930 46,620 10p.c.=232,582 26,728 972,246
To staff fund, £91,617 880,629
The £305,930 was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 11.1 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 19.8, 18.1, 14.4, 19.7 and
17.8 p.c. back to 1951. On issued capital
as it now stands the pref. div. and 10 p.c.
to the ords. will call for £102,540 more
profit than was claimed last term. Still,
the div. was kept at 10 p.c., which might
be taken as an indication that the board
is not unduly perturbed about the
immediate outlook for the group as a
whole, although it might be some time
before radio, television and refrigeration
make any worth-while contribution to the
pool.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the financial structure:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £297,874 £666,000 £666.000
Ord 1,882,717 1,882,717 3,593,914
Reserves .. .. 768,419 949,548 880,629
Registered notes .. 611,397 510,000 600,000
Overdraft . . .. 442,533
Creditors . . .. 299,298 494,441 610,460
Tax provision .. 419,658 604,327 608,695
Staff fund . . 60,000 60,000 160,000
Final div. .. 104,561 116,987 161,756
£4,333,924 £5,616,553 £7,171,454
Freeholds .. .. 874,217 1,020,323 1,304,209
Plant .. .. 1,001,661 1,351,729 1,664,897
Shares other c 0... 24,630 24,630 124,680
Stocks . . . . 1,612,791 2,086,593 3,016,722
Debtors .. .. 706,411 1,070,733 976,443
Cash .. .. 114,214 62,545 84,553
£4,333,924 £5,616,553 £7,171,454
The £1,711,197 added to ord. capital last
term, and more besides, was used to wipe-
out the overdraft (£442,533 at the previ-
ous balance), add £283,886 to freeholds,
£313,168 to plant, £lOO,OOO to share-
holdings and £930,129 to stocks. The
current year’s earnings can be expected to
receive some benefit from these outlays.
Gibson & Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
A LWAYS a good profit-earner and'
*** dividend-payer, the co. owns the
well-irrigated Bingera sugar-plantation,
together with an efficient near-by mill
in the Bundaberg district (Q.). Over the
last decade divs. averaging 11.6 p.c. were
paid from net earnings averaging 16.3
p.c. on capital employed. And the distri-
butions were sweetened with a one-for-
two cash-issue at par in 1950 and a one-
for-two issue of bonus-scrip in 1954. So,
although the div. was lowered from 15 p.c.
in 1953 to 12 p.c. for the two following
years, the 12 p.c. was equal to 18 p.c. on
capital as it stood before the gift scrip-
issue.
It isn’t likely, however, that this lush
bit of history will be repeated over the
next few years. It was made possible by
the bigger export-market which the U.K.-
Commonwealth sugar pact provided. The
Australian annual export quota of raws
was thus increased by 200,000 tons,
making it 600,000 tons, there was a steady
growth of consumption on the home
market, and prices in both fields
strengthened.
Overseas the long-term trend is now
toward easier prices and tighter trading.
Still, for G. and H. the stage appears to
be set for a run of good returns for some
years to come. The market therefore
prices the f.-p. £1 shares at 48s. 6d. (495. a
year ago) to give an immediate return of
no more than 4.9 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distri-
bution. A 5.7 p.c. return would call for
a 14 p.c. handout, which was earned but
with little to spare last term. Much will
depend upon whether the co. receives the
lift in its mill peak from the current 37,000
tons to 40,000 tons, which it has asked
for in order to absorb cane-production
from the recently enlarged Bingera mill
area. Net tangible cover for the scrip is
445. Bd., including the provision for
depreciation (£508,515), equal to 16s. 2d.
a share.
Last term 318,088 tons (down 10,906
tons) cane were put through the rollers
for 38,900 tons (down 2850 tons) raw
sugar, which was 1900 tons in excess of
the mill peak. Excessive arrowing (flower-
ing) of the cane affected the crop.
Harvesting conditions were excellent. The
estimated overall price of raws was about
10s. a ton stronger:
Overall
Season. No. 1 Pool. Average.
1951 .. .. £34 7 4 £34 7 6
1953 .. .. 43 8 3 42 7 11
1954 . . . . 42 9 11 41 4 9
1955 .. . . 42 0 0* 41 15 0*
* Estimate.
No. 1 pool price is the average return
for all sugar produced within mill peaks.
The excess is paid for at a much lower
price. That last term’s overall average
was better than the 1954 figures was due
to a temporary lift of 16,000 tons in the
export quota.
After allowing £50,162 (up £3547) for
depreciation and something for taxation,
the slip in net earnings was £9093:
To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£j £ £ £
1950.. 48,760 12 p.C. = 34,602 14,258 185,208
1951.. 38,795 11 „ 36,099 2,696 187,904
1952.. 60,310 12 „ „ 42,840 17,470 205,374
1963.. 83,675 15 „ „ 59,852 23,823 229,197
Asset revaluation reserve, £210,000.. 439,197
Reserve capitalised, £210,000 .. 229,197
3J54.. 99,783 12 p.c. s 75,600 24,183 253,380
1955.. 90,690 12 „ „ 75,600 15,090 268,470
* Excluding provision for depreciation, £508,515 at
31/12/’55.
The £90,690 of profit was 14.3 p.c. on
capital as against 15.8, 20, 16, 11.8 and
17.4 p.c. back to 1950. The seasonal out-
look for the 1956 crop is reported to be
excellent, the negotiated price for exports
remains unchanged, and the selling-price
of fines on the home market was recently
increased by Id. per pound.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £417,173 £630,000 £630,000
Reserves .. .. 229,197 253,380 268,470
Depreciation prov’n 415,599 460,643 508,515
Overdraft .. 169,654 242,872 298,801
Sundry creditors* 315,669 350,403 359,976
Staff fund .. 19,113 20,000 16,146
Final divs. .. 39,616 44,100 44,100
£1,606,021 £2,001,39ft £2,126,008
Freeholds, plant, etc. 1,114,099 1,434,045 1,639,171
Investments .. 10,844 12,844 13,844
Stocks .. ~. 397,745 479,291 499,079
Debtors .. .. 39,238 29,815 29,232
Govt, securities .. 43,200 43,200 43,200
Cash, etc. .. 895 2,203 1,482
£1,606,021 £2,001,398 £2,126,008
* Including provision for taxation.
The current year’s earnings should derive
some benefit from last term’s net addition
of £105,126 to freeholds, plant, etc., which
was financed partly on overdraft.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
'T'HE earnings of this 72-year-old
A station-supply, carrying, produce and
general merchandising business depend
mainly on the prosperity of wheat- and
woolgrowers in the back country of Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales, where the co. has
25 and 16 branches respectively, with
another at Mount Gambier (S. Aust.).
Of recent years the produce section has
made progressively smaller contributions
to the pool, and, except under very dry
conditions, isn’t expected to improve
much. So the management has concen-
trated upon the development of merchan-
dising sales, which now account for about
five-sevenths of turnover.
Last term there was a further and sharp
contraction of produce earnings, while
falling prices and rising costs lessened the
capacity of primary producers to further
improve their properties. Still, turnover
of the co. and its small subsidiary appears
to have held well. Gross earnings
(£1,037,575) increased by £7176. But the
steady upcreep in wage-rates and of the
cost of petrol, etc., and the extra tax-
slug, sent exes. (£933,648) up by £33,686.
The squeeze thus resulted in a con-
traction of £26,510 in net earnings:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1952 ... 147,848 12 p.c. = 65,500 )
To doubtful debts, £25,000..]' 67 > 348 451,444
1953 .. 90,992 11 p.c. = 55,000 35,992 487,436
Capital loss, £1350 486,086
1954 .. 113,296 12 p.c. = 60,000 53,296 539,382
Murray Shipping recovery, £245 .. 539,627
From tax provisions, £31,500 .. .. 671,127
Share-premiums, £50,000 .. .. 621,127
Unexplained additions, £4133 .. .. 625,260
1955 .. 130,437 12 p.c. = 64,000 66,437 691,697
Unexplained addition, £1722 .. .. 693,419
1956 .. 103,927 12 p.c. = 84,000 19,927 713,340
The £103,927 of profit was 14.8 p.c. on
capital as against 24.4, 22.6, 18.2, 31.9
and 26.7 p.c. back to 1951. The distribu-
tion was kept at 12 p.c., of which 2 p.c.
is called premium. On capital and
reserves combined the year’s profit was
7.3 p.c: In addition to the visible lay-by
there is a “substantial” provision for
doubtful debts deducted from the asset
concerned in the published accounts, and
stocks, which dominate the financial posi-
tion, appear at or under costs.
It is fairly common practice for a
board of directors to add a bonus to the
year’s dividend when trading results and
the outlook warrant a larger distribution
The intention, of course, is that the bonu
shall be regarded as an extra paymen
which may not be forthcoming in futur
years. When the bonus is repeated fo
several years it tends to lose its signifi
cance, and the market comes to expec
the full distribution as a norma
occurrence.
Continued modernisation of branches
not yet complete, and replacements anc
additions to the co.’s large fleet of motor
vehicles, sent the book-value of fixed
assets up by £147,750:
P.W. and Subsidiary.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £700.000 £700,00
Reserves .. .. 539,380 691,695 713,34
Outside interests.. 5 4
Notes .. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Creditors* .. 812,333 784,846 738,979
Tax provision .. 161,813 148,995 151,498
Final dividends .. 35,000 34,000 42,000
£2,148,531 £2,459,540 £2,445,825
Property and plant 461,727 608,025 655,775
Stocks . . . . 883,833 1,091,192 1,039,73(
Debtors .. .. 721,211 776,647 684,790
Cash, etc. .. 81,760 83,676 65,530
£2,148,531 £2,459,540 £2,445,825
* Includes unspecified “provisions.”
The reductions in stocks (down £51,462)
and debtors’ balances (down £91,857)
were largely the result of shortening sail
in the produce section. Despite the addi-
tion to fixed assets, the contraction in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£757,573) was
only £26,101.
At 38s. 3d. (38s. 6d. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 shares return 6.2 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 40s. 4d. Owing to the possi-
bility of swing in seasonal conditions and
the trend of world prices for primary
products, the 12 p.c. cannot be looked
upon as a minimum distribution in the
years ahead.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.)
ANTICIPATING its benefits, the
r*- market prices the f.-p. £1 shares of
this 67-year-old heavy-engineering busi-
ness at 475. 6d. (50s. a year ago) to give
an immediate return of no more than
5.2 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. basis, which was
three times covered by last term’s net
earnings. A 6.3 p.c. return would call for
a 15 p.c: distribution, or other benefits.
Including provision for depreciation
(£136,000), some or all of which may be
genuine profit, net tangible cover (book-
value) is 725. sd.
Chief clouds on the horizon are grow-
ing competition and uncertainty about
future demand for locomotives and ships,
two of the co.’s main lines. To meet the
position the management is assaulting
costs by technical and other improve-
ments, and by “developing activities which
will maintain the co.’s outstanding posi-
tion in the field of heavy-engineering.”
In the past those in control have shown a
remarkable aptitude for switching pro-
duction with changes in the character of
demand. Only once in the last 48 years
have those on the register failed to
receive a div. Average rates were 7 p.c.
for the 13 years to 1920, 9.5 p.c. and 6.1
p.c. for the next two decades, 8.5 p.c. for
the nine years to 1948 and a steady 12|
p.c., with gradually increasing margins,
for the seven years to the close of last
accounts.
The co. builds steam-locomotives, ships,
bridges, diesel- and steam-engines, min-
ing, sugar-mill and other machinery, and
does jobbing-engineering, boilermaking
and all classes of founding and forging


INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
ney*, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patent* and
Trade Marks. — Aj>vt.
ELECTRIC
LIFTS hydraulic
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directort: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. 0. Parker.
H. H.
’Phone
MOULTON, Managing Director.
: BW 8801.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
work as well. The main shops
and yards are at Maryborough
(Q.), and there is a branch-works
at Mackay (Q.), where Cameron’s
engineering business was taken
over in 1950. Shareholders then
put-up £49,678 of fresh capital,
lifting the figure —it had
remained steady at £124,193
since 1916 —to the present
£173,871. Since reserves at June
30, 1955, totalled £455,795, the
two combined need turn-in only
3.4 p.c. to cover 12-1- p.c. on
capital alone.
Last term one of the co.’s
shops in Maryborough was
damaged by flood, and that por-
tion of the unstated loss not
covered by insurance was
written-off out of the year’s earn-
ings. Also shortage of skilled
tradesmen delayed progress on
some of the co.’s major con-
tracts, which include the con-
struction of vessels for the Navy
and Shipbuilding Board. How-
ever, what the co. missed on the
swings it more than picked-up
on the roundabouts. Including
a transfer (£20,000, up £5000)
to provision for depreciation,
gross profit was £28,348 stronger
at £192,072. Exes. (£97,864) in-
creased by £6845, and an extra
£9OOO was set asid_e for taxation,
etc. * (£27,000), leaving the net
gain at £12,503:
{ —Dividend—v, To Re- Re-
Jne. Profit.* p.c. Total, serves, serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
’51..44,964 121 = 19,131 25,833 340,237
To staff fund, £2568 . . 337,669
’52..51,975 12* = 21,734 30,241 367,910
To staff fund, £4273 . . 363,637
Profit sale assets, £1205 .. 364,842
’53..65,346 124 = 21,734 33,612 398,454
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 393,454
Profit sale assets, £3849 . . 397,303
’64..54,705 12* = 21,734 32,971 430,274
To staff fund, etc., £11,228 419,046
’55..67,208 12 J = 21,734 45,474 464,520
To staff fund, £8725 .. 455,795
* Includes additions to depreciation re-
serve, etc. (now £116,000).
The £67,208 of profit, best show-
ing to date, was 37.6 p.c. on
capital as against 31.4, 31.8, 29.9,
29.4 and 39 p.c. back to 1950.
On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 10.6 p.c., which em-
phasises the fact that the size of
the reserves (over three times
paid capital) is largely respon-
sible for the fatness of the profit-
ratios on capital alone, as well as
that the £lOO,OOO of five-year 6
p.c. unsecured registered notes,
issued early in the 1954 term,
are earning more than their keep.
The year’s net addition of
£32,444 to freehold, plant, etc.,
is a pointer to the board’s pro-
gramme of modernisation and
its confidence in the future of
the undertaking:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital £173,871 £173,871 £173,871
Reserves .. 393,455 419,046 455,795
Notes .. 100,000 100,000
Overdraft .. 145,026 64,628 58,685
Creditors, etc. 113,156 89,061 126,324
Staff superan-
nuation fund 20,000 20,000 25,000
Dividend . . 21,734 21,734 21,734
£867,242 £888,340 £961,409
Freehold,
f»l«it, etc. 349,750 393,999 426,443
Stock . . 123,058 164,038 141,460
Work in pro-
gresi . . 153,005 132,091 116,331
Debtor* . . 109,537 67,137 146,139
Cash, etc. .. 1,041 225 186
Investments 180,851 130,850 130,850
£867,242 £888,340 £961,409
The reductions in stock (down
£22,578) and works in progress
(down £15,760) and growth in
debtors’ balances (up £79,002)
are healthy signs. Only £37,263
was added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., which
includes unspecified provisions
for taxation, retiring allowances
and other contingencies.
Gippsland Oil-search
TIJOR the non-specialist, the
most informative and import-
ant survey of “the significance of
oil-discovery in South Gipps-
land” yet published has just been
put out by the Victorian Depart-
ment of Mines at the modest
price of Is.
It is the work of Dr. N. Bouta-
koff, senior Government geolo-
gist, and is based on long study
of the geology, and field-exami-
nation, of the area in question,
as well as upon results of recent
borings at Woodside and Darri-
man, which, considered in their
geological setting, are considered
to be “rich in possibilities in
regard to the future discovery
of a commercial oil-field in
Gippsland.”
In the final analysis, however,
only the drill can prove whether
the geological reasoning • is
correct. For this reason oil-
search is an enterprise which
demands much capital, courage,
patience and determination to
take the calculated risks.
It is claimed that recent
results in Gippsland have vindi-
cated the soundness of the geolo-
gical concepts, and that there are
reasonable chances of discover-
ing commercial oil-pools in the
following three environments:
(1) In the Tertiary formations,
closer to Tertiary shorelines, such as
the old granite coastline of Wilson’s
Promontory.
(2) In older beds, consisting of
middle or upper Devonian and
Carboniferous, where these beds are
buried below th& Jurassic and upper
Devonian unconformities.
(3) On or about the unconformities
themselves; provided that sufficiently
permeable sandstones or limestones
may be found there.
It is pointed out that probably
the majority of the oil- and gas-
pools of the world are in one
way or another intimately
linked with unconformities.
And the conclusion has been
reached that the migration and
distribution of oil in Gippsland
is probably governed by
several overlapping unconformi-
ties which form the stratigraphic
framework of the Gippsland
basin.
Although there is no evidence
in any of the three wells recently
drilled there of any brackish or
marine Jurassic rocks, it is con-
sidered that marine Jurassic or'
older Mesozoic rocks may be
present to the south, below the
ocean, and oil may be proceed-
ing from them up-dip. For this
and other reasons, Woodside’s
No. 2 well, in which drilling was
suspended at 6110 ft., is to be
driven through the Jurassic beds
into the unknown rocks buried
below them.
Throughout the report the
emphasis is not so much on
structural as on stratigraphic oil-
traps. A stratigraphic oil-trap is
formed during sedimentation, as
for instance by the wedging of
pervious sand with impervious
clay or shale. A structural trap
is due either to the up-arching
of sediments, or to some, form
of dislocation, such as faulting.
On these grounds it is con-
sidered that oil in Gippsland has
been found where it should be.
Quantity is the target at which
the present drilling-campaign
aims. Quality will more-or-less
take care of itself in the refinery.
NEW BROKEN HILL
CONSOLIDATED LTD.
Very satisfactory financial result following record production and higher metal prices.
The 20th Annual Meeting of New
Broken Hill Consolidated will
be held on June 18, at 37 Dover
Street, London, W.l. The following
are extracts from the circulated
statement of the Chairman, Mr. John
R. Govett:
The Company has had a most
satisfactory year, with its production
of ore reaching 531,447 tons, an in-
crease of approximately 10% over the
figure for 1954, and the profit, be-
fore providing taxation, amounting
to £1,850,449, compared with
£1,141,234 for 1954, an increase of
£709,215. This improvement is due
partly to the increased production
and realisations during the year,
and partly to the higher prices real-
ised for lead and zinc.
These results are after charging
£330,000 for depreciation, compared
with £307,000 last year, and after
providing £186,328 for mining
royalty, compared with £82,828 for
1954. Taxation, including profits
tax on the higher distribution pro-
posed this year, absorbs £903,386,
compared with £543,960 for 1954.
This leaves a net profit of £947,063,
compared with £597,274 for 1954, an
increase of £349,789.
A transfer has bqen made to
General Reserve of £300,000, com-
pared with £200,000 for 1954. An in-
terim dividend of 2/- per share was
paid on 2nd January, 1956, and the
Board now recommend that a final
dividend of 2/6 per share be paid,
making a total distribution for the
year of 4/6 per share, which com-
pares with 3/- per share for 1954.
These dividends, payable less income
tax, require £611,405, leaving a sur-
plus of £305,665 to be carried for-
ward, an increase of £35,658.
Capital expenditure during 1955
amounted to £435,921 on mine de-
velopment, including shaft sinking,
and £313,395 on machinery, plant,
buildings and equipment, making a
total of £749,316.
Production
Operations were carried out on 236
working days in 1955 out of a pos-
sible maximum of 239. The Mine
was closed for one day following the
death of one of the Company’s em-
ployees who contracted tetanus fol-
lowing a minor accident in Decem-
ber, 1954, and two working days
were lost due to fatal accidents
which occurred on the Zinc Corpora-
tion leases.
Ore mined in 1955 amounted to
531,447 tons, compared with 482,058
tons in 1954.
The average rate of production per
working day increased from 2,025
tons in 1954 to 2,252 tons. In the
period of 20 working days ended 27th
August. 1955, the average number of
tons mined per day rose to 2,551,
thus breaking the previous year’s
record figure of 2,211 tons per day
by a considerable margin.
Stoping efficiencies rose further to
16.91 tons per contract-stoping-miner-
shift compared with 15.79 tons in
1954. Similarly the output per
mining department employee rose
from 3.56 tons per day in 1954 to
3.92 in 1955, despite the fact that
portions of two stopes on No. 19
level were converted from open to
square-set stoping.
Production from the trial sub-level
stope as planned for the second half
of the vear could not be realised
owing to delays in completion of
the underground crushing station,
and only 27,000 tons were produced
from that source. In the circum-
stances, the management and em-
plovees are to be congratulated, par-
ticularly on achieving a total pro-
duction so close to the original
target for the year of 540,000 tons.
Of the total ore milled of 530,044
tons. 342.480 tons were treated in the
company’s own mill, and 187.564 tons
in the Zinc Corporation mill.
The high level of metallurgical
efficiencies achieved in 1954 was not
fully maintained, due in the main to
a lower average grade of the ore
treated ja the company’s mill. The
total recovery of lead and silver in
the lead and lead-copper concen-
trates, and the recovery of zinc in
zinc concentrates in 1955, as com-
pared with 1954 were as follows: —
Surface
By the end of the year the second
section of the mill was completed.
We are satisfied that we now have
1955. 1954.
Dead 94.-9 per cent. 95.9 per cent.
Silver .. .. .. 89.4 pel cent. 92.0 per cent.
Zinc .. .. .. 94.0 per cent. 94.5 per cent.
Realisations
Realisations in 1955 consisted of
lead concentrate, lead and silver metal,
and zinc metal and concentrate. Ex-
pressing realisations of lead concen-
trate in terms of recoverable leacl
and silver content and zinc metal in
terms of the relative zinc concen-
trate, total realisations for 1955 as
compared with 1954 were as follows:
ample capacity to treat at high
metallurgical efficiency the whole of
our present target of ore production.
With the increased flotation capa-
city available, the grade of products
can be expected to improve, and
notably in the first four periods of
1956 the zinc content of zinc concen-
trates from the Company’s mill has
increased from the average of 50.8
Recoverable Zinc
Lead, Silver, Concentrate,
Year. Tons. Ounces. Tons.
1955 41,914 787,030 117,811
1954 .. 36,198 749,686 117,874
Ore Reserves
The tonnage of ore developed
during the year was in excess of the
tonnage mined, and the ore reserves
fully outlined and developed ready
for stoping, or in the process of
being stoped, show a further in-
crease of 200,000 tons below No. 16
level. At 31st December, 1955, the
reserves were calculated at: —
per cent, in 1955 to 52.6 per cent.
Apart from the second section of
the mill no other major work has
been undertaken on the surface
during the year.
Employees and Industrial
Relations
I am glad to be able to record
Lead Zinc Silver
per per
Cent. Cent. Ounces.
Above No. 16 level 900.000 tons assaying 5.1 1.1 15.4
Below No. 16 level 2,100,000 tons assaying 13.6 3.4 10.5
Total 31st Dec., 1955 3,000,000 tons assaying 11.0 2.7 12.0
Compared with total ' _ „ _ ......
31st Dec., 1954 2,800,000 tons assaying 11.1 2.7 11.9
Development and Diamond
Drilling
In 1955 the installation of the 4Sin.
x 60in. jaw crusher in the crushing
station below No. 21 Level and the
No. 2 skip loading station at No.
22 Level were both completed. All
ore is now being hoisted through the
haulage shaft to the Company’s own
mill.
As reported in my Statement last
year, the extension of the west drive
on No. 19 level is primarily directed
at this stage to further exploration
for lead lode mineralisation beyond
1.500 feet south of the Zinc Corpora-
tion boundary. Two deep easterly
inclined holes have so far been com-
pleted from the crosscut extending
to the west of this drive at 1,836 feet
south, yielding useful information
on structure, but without any sig-
nificant ore showings. However, -the
zone of interest covers a wide area,
and extensive drilling may be re-
quired before any conclusions can be
drawn.
The pattern drilling of the sili-
ceous and rliodonitic zinc lodes be-
tween Nos. 12 and 18 Levels lias
been continued as a basis on which
to determine the. possible develop-
ment and economic recovery of the
large tonnage of low-grade ore
known to exist in these lodes. De-
tailed studies are being made of
areas of interest under various alter-
native methods and degrees of ore
extraction, and in conjunction with
the Zinc Corporation, experimental
shrinkage stoping is being per-
formed in suitable sections in upper
levels. We have also, during the
year, had the benefit from a compre-
hensive study by Mr. W. E. Romlg,
a mining consultant with very wide
experience in the United States of
America and Rhodesia, in methods
of large-scale extraction under vary-
ing condition g.
that for the sixth year in succession
operations on the company’s leases
have been free of fatal accidents,
but, unfortunately there was a slight
increase in the overall accident rate
over the year. In this regard we
continue with the Zinc Corporation
in joint safety and accident preven-
tion operations, and the staff at
Broken Hill are constantly striving
to improve the records.
At the close of the year the number
of employees had increased to 911
compared with 839 at the end of 1954,
and the staff now totals. 112.
Markets and Prices
Conclusion
As regards the markets for our
products, I would repeat, as I have
done on former occasions, the state-
ment.! am making to the members
of the Consolidated Zinc Corpora-
tion Limited.
Last year, in reviewing the course
of the lead and zinc markets. I
stressed the important part played
by the U.S. stockpile in determining
prices by the removal of surplus
stocks. During the past 12 months
the influence of the stockpile has
to some extent been lessened owing
to increasing demand throughout
the Western world for both metals.
The later months of 1955 and
the early months of 1956 showed
production and consumption to be so
evenly balanced that only token de-
liveries were offered to the stockpile
authorities. The net result of these
operations has been to raise the U.S.
price of zinc from 9J cents per
pound, and the price of lead from
12* cents per pound, from March,
1954, to the present quotations of
13* cents and 16 cents respectively,
while the stocks which had accumu-
lated in the hands of mines and
smelters in previous years have now
been locked away for an indefinite
period.
Perhaps the most significant
feature of the rise in prices has been
the failure of the U.S. mining in-
dustry to make_any worthwhile irf-
erease in production. Nevertheless,
it might be more correct to hazard
a guess that but for the Administra-
tion’s stockpiling policy mine pro-
duction might have fallen very
sharply.
In recent weeks there has been
some falling off in the demand for
all metals, due mainly to the reces-
sion in the motor-car industry in
the U.S.A. and this country. The
psychological effect of the sharp
fall in copper prices has also played
an important role, and until confi-
dence is restored there is every in-
dication that the markets will re-
main sensitive. However, the
tonnage of lead and zinc that can
stMl be acquired by the stockpile -is
sufficiently great to provide reason-
able stability at around the present
level of prices. Hooking further
ahead we may assume that the
growth of industrial activity in the
world at large and increasing popu-
lation will call for greater tonnages
of both metals.
Conclusion
Although the'delays in completion
of the underground crusher just pre-
vented us from reaching our target
for the year of 540,000 tons, the
actual achievement of slightly more
than 530,000 tons without this equip-
ment was all the more notable, and
I am sure shareholders will wish to
join me in a tribute to our man-
agement and the staff and employees
at Broken Hill for the vital part
they have played in the satisfactory
results I am able to put before you
today.
For some time after we embarked
in 1945 on the long-range pro-
gramme for the development of the
Mine, our operations, as shareholders
are aware, have depended to a very
large extent on access to our work-
ings through the Zinc Corporation
Mine, and also on the facilities
afforded by that Company’s Mill.
Since the completion of the Haulage
Shaft in 1951, we have been gradu-
ally approaching the stage of inde-
pendence finally achieved at the be-
ginning of this year, since when our
operations have been serviced’
through our own shafts, and the
whole of our production treated in
our own Mill. However, as a result
of the policy of avoiding any un-
necessary duplication of surface
facilities, we shall continue to be
jointly interested with the Zinc Cor-
poration in the provision of certain
essential and valuable services. For
instance, while we have workshops
adjacent to the shafts for routine
maintenance on underground equip-
ment, and a transit store, we have
not attempted to duplicate the exten-
sive workshops and stores facilities
established bn the Zinc Corporation
Mine which have been, and are.
available to us, with advantage to
both Companies.
As recently announced, Mr. M. A.
Mawby and Mr. R. Pitman Hooper,
both of whom have had a life-long
association with the Broken Hill
mining industry, were appointed
Directors of the Company. Mr.
Mawby, as a Vice-chairman of Con-
solidated Zinc Proprietary Limited,
our Attorney, and Managers in Aus-
tralia.. already plays a large part in
the executive control of the Com-
pany’s affairs. Mr. Pitman Hooper,
as General Manager of Operations
since 1945, has had great influence
on the successful development of the
mine, and the encouraging outlook
for the future owes much to his
drive and initiative. We are glad to
welcome two colleagues whose lives
began in Broken Hill, and whose
merit and efficiency have since
earned them their present high posi-
tion in our industry.
JOHN R. GOVETT.
lOtb May, 1956.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
In honor of the Queen’s birthday, the
United Kingdom Services liaison-staff
gave a delightful late-afternoon party in
the Army Headquarters officers’ mess at
Victoria Barracks. The 200 guests were ,
welcomed by Rear-Admiral R. S. Wellby
and Mrs. Wellby (she smart in ballerina
frock of gunmetal-iridescent faille spotted
in black chenille velvet, and a tiny petal-
cap of Wedgwood-blue velvet). Poin-
settias, specially flown from Queensland
for the party, were mixed with cream-
shaded chrysanthemums and autumn
foliage.
Among the guests were Lieut.-General
Sir Sydney Rowell and Lady Rowell,
Lieut.-General and Mrs. A. R. Garrett,
Air-Vice-Marshal E. G. Wackett, Air-
Vice-Marshal and Mrs. D. Candy (her
mink coat worn with a cinnamon-brown
lace frock and small black velvet cap),
Air-Commodore and Mrs. Acton, Com-
modore and Mrs. J. C. Morrow, Brigadier
and Mrs. M. F. Brogden, Major and
Mrs. W. Hine-Haycock (her cap of
emerald-green feathers going with a slim
black suit), Captain and Mrs. Guy
Stocker, Group-Captain T. Bear and Mrs.
Bear and Flying-Officer Bate and Mrs.
Bate.
☆ ☆ *
Noted at the first night of Katherine
Dunham and her dancers at the Tivoli:
Mrs. David Martin (who wore a grey
mink stole over a ballerina frock of
charcoal-grey, lace and taffeta) Mrs.
Frank Martin (in bronze taffeta ballerina
frock and white ermine stole), Mr. and
Mrs. Norman Lynch, Mr. and Mrs. M.
Rees, Mr. and Mrs. George Laurens,
Mrs. F. H. Wright with daughter Mrs.
Ronald Marriott and daughter-in-law
Mrs. Heathcote Wright, Sir Rupert and
Lady Clarke, Mrs. Simon Warrender, Cr.
and Mrs. Maurice Nathan, Mr. and Mrs.
George Griffiths, Mr. and Mrs. H. Silk
and the Royden Honeymans.
* ☆ ☆
Toorak Presbyterian Church was the
setting for the wedding of Janice, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. Pascoe, of
Hawthorn, and Thomas, son of Mrs. G.
Mooney, of Brisbane, and the late Mr.
Mooney. The bride allied a very bouf-
fant skirt of layers of white tulle to a
long-sleeved, long-torso bodice of lovely
white guipure-lace. Her tulle veil was
caught with a pearl-coronet, and she
carried a bouquet of gardenias, hyacinths
and azaleas. In attendance were Mar-
garet Gnaden and Margaret Quarrier,
their pretty frocks of shell-pink nylon,
the skirts full, the bodices highlighted
with deep shawl-collars. Coronets of
pink flowers were worn in their hair, and
they carried pink hyacinths and nerines.
Best man was Frank Murray. Reception
for 70 guests was at Kenilworth, South
Yarra.
# v v
Before she left in the Orsova with her
husband and family for the U.S. (he is
Group-Captain Peter Parker, and will
be Air Attache at the Australian Embassy
at Washington) Mrs. Parker was given a
farewell-party at the Oriental Hotel by
her mother, Mrs. Eric Fowler, and her
sister, Mrs. Desmond Hollywood. Mrs.
Fowler’s black Persian-lamb coat covered
a black frock, and her attractive little
hat was of white feathers. Mrs. Parker
wore with a smart black ensemble a wide-
brimmed rose-pink melusine hat. Mrs.
Hollywood had a small dusty-pink hat
to go with her black outfit. Mrs. Alex
Lynch, who also sailed in the Orsova,
chose a black velvet coat and a pink
velvet cap trimmed with amethyst beads.
Other guests included Mrs. Arthur
Adams, Mrs. Charles Parker (the guest-
of-honor’s sister-in-law), Mrs. Fred,
Connaughton, Mrs. Redmond Green,
Mrs. Desmond McSweeney and Mrs.
John Nicholls.
v V V
Wearing a hazel-blue tweed coat and
matching felt cloche, Pamela Middleton,
president of the Young Contingent of the
Victoria League in Victoria, was hostess
at a luncheon-party in ' the league’s
clubrooms, guests-of-honor being Boro-
vansky Ballet dancers Peggy Sager, Kath-
leen Gorham and Jacqueline Vollmar.
Y.C. members included Elizabeth
McMeekin (her jade-green hat matched
by the rose worn in the lapel of her
jacket), Margot Krohn (in scarlet sweater,
matching hat and beige coat), Joan
Duckett (whose coat of emerald-green
cloth went with a cosy tangerine head-
hugging cap), Clarissa Starey, Marjorie
Tatnall and Barbara Hewitt.
A dinner-party at the Hotel Windsor,
followed by a night at the ballet,
celebrated the engagement of Elizabeth
Creswell and Maurice Servoir. Elizabeth,
only daughter of Commander E. L. G.
Creswell (R.A.N., ret.) and Mrs. Cres-
well, of Healesville, graduated in music
from the Uni. Conservatorium, and is
now a teacher with the Education
Department. So is Maurice, who
teaches at Castlemaine. He is the son of
Mr. and Mrs.C. R. Servoir, of Essendon.
To celebrate the foundation of the
Italian Republic the Consul-General of
Italy and the Marchesa Serafini enter-
tained at a late-afternoon party at their
Toorak home. Helping her husband
receive the guests, the Marchesa wore
a slim-fitting black frock and a sapphire-
blue mink-stole.
Among the guests were General Sir
William Bridgeford and Lady Bridge-
ford (the latter in full-length black velvet
coat, with white fur forming a small
collar and edging the coat to the hem,
and a white felt platter-hat); Dr. and
Mrs. Arthur Joyce (she wearing a rust
silk frock patterned in black, and with
the coat lined with the frock material);
and Madame Vaccari (who wore with her
black faille jacket-suit a tiny hat of mole
velvet finished with a long quill).
With Madame Mario Vigano (whose
black Persian-lamb coat had blue mink
cuffs and was worn with a hat of black
edged with grey feathers) was her
daughter Mrs. Don O’Donnell, whose
coat of black faille was worn with a rose-
pink straw cap trimmed with tiny bows.
Other guests were Consul for Switzerland
M. Paul-Emile Cattin and his wife,
Professor A. Chisholm, Madame Gay
and her daughter Lillianne, Dr. and Mrs.
George Santorro, Marjorie Tatnall and
Pamela Middleton, Madame de Marco
and Judge Mitchell and Mrs. Mitchell.
Dorothy Gitsham (whose first attempt
at stage-dressing in “Sabrine Fair’'* was
so successful) put on a showing of her
fashions for next spring. Cottons were
exotic, although simple in design; pastel-
brocades for party-wear had charm, and
the new pleated-organza theatre-coa(s to
wear over the brocades were also attrac-
tive. A pleasing and sensible outfit for
cold nights was a scarlet felt skirt,
lavishly trimmed with shiny jet beads and
topped with a square-necked black jersey.
Another attractive felt skirt was of black
with a deep hem of white felt. White
beads were embroidered on the black
felt and black beads on the white. The
white jersey-top with its scoop-neckline
had more black beads for contrast. A
party-frock for the teenager was of white
patterned in turquoise flowers ; turquoise-
blue satin ribbon was threaded through
the skirt and finished in a huge bustle-
bow.
For entertaining at home there was a
slack-suit of gold lame with a Ming-blue
satin strapless top. Over it was worn a
trailing-coat of gold lame lined with
Ming-blue satin. Tight-fitting trousers of
white embroidered with a gold Lurek-
thread were topped with a high-necked
Chinese-coat in the same material. A
charming frock of grey cotton, coin-
spotted in white, was notable for the
skirt, which had a flattering series of
pleats just above the 'knees. A sflk-
finished cotton in soft apricot tonings
had a large cat embroidered on the front
of the bodice. Brilliant green and soft
brown patterned a white frock, which
had a further touch of color in the trim-
ming of turquoise around the square neck
and on the long torso bodice at the waist.
SYDNEY
The Sheep Show brought many country
people into town, and in spite of the
rather grizzly weather everything seemed
to go off well. Chief social functions were
the Sheep Show Ball at the Empress Ball-
room (to benefit Torchbearers for Legacy
and the Far West Children’s Health
Scheme) and the cocktail-party given for
300 guests by the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association in the members’ dining-room
at the Showground.
Styles were many and varied at the
cocktail-party, the rain having prevented
the wearing of glamor hats and dresses,
though it seemed to stimulate liveliness
and conversation. Mr. and Mrs. Tony
Hordern received the guests, among
whom were Mr. and Mrs. B. M. Clapham,
of Boonoke, Conargo ; Barbara Carroll
(Redbank, Molong), just back from New
Zealand, and accompanied by her father ;
Mr. Alf Carroll (the Carrolls garnered-in
practically everything in the Corriedale
classes this year, one heard); and Mr.
and Mrs. G. R. M. Smith, of Marylebone,
Cudal (who won the trophy for the
Dorset Horns).
Opposition-leader P. H. Morton, with
Mrs. Morton, chatted with the Henry
Katers, of Swatchfield, Oberon (whose
daughter Joan, a Bachelor of Vet.
Science, was also present). From Oberon,
too, came the R. C. Cottons (Carrington
Park), and from Merriwa the Ralph
Livingstons. Sydney people among the
guests were Sir Richard and Lady Boyer,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses, Dr. and
Mrs. R. J. Noble, Mr. P. A. Yeomans,
and Mr. and Mrs. Roy McKerihan.
$ V. V
Even those who do not care for the
living theatre (breathes there anyone
with soul so dead?) would be thrilled by
the decor planned for the Elizabethan
Theatre Ball. The foyer of the Troca-
dero will be transformed into the pros-
cenium of a theatre, with deep-red velvet
curtains caught up with gold-tassels, and
boxes on each side with the traditional
red-plush-and-gold. The guests will be
televised as they come in, and will be able
to see themselves in a tiny theatre in a
corner of the ballroom. A galaxy of
artists are working on the decor, with
Mr. Erik Langker at the head of the
committee.
Juliet Baxter, who recently won her
Bachelor of Laws degree with honors at
Sydney University, will be admitted to the
Bar on Friday, June 8. Juliet is the
daughter of the late Mr. B. L. Baxter, a
well-known officer of the Crown Law
Department, and of Mrs. M. Baxter, of
Northbridge. Her immediate plans are
for an extended trip abroad —she will
leave on July 6 in the Himalaya. Photo
by Norton-Trevaire.
The Independent Theatre’s 26th-birth-
day dance was held at Prince’s during the
week. The Roger Liveseys, rapidly
becoming the most popular couple in
Sydney, came on after “The Reluctant
Debutante” to be guests-of-honor and
present the prizes. Mr. and Mrs. Erik
Langker, Miss Doris Fitton (wearing
rose-pink chiffon), and the president of
the social-committee, Mrs. Douglas
Anderson, were chief welcomers. Noted
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere in the official
party, her short dress of black velvet
embroidered with jet at the waistline.
Stalwart supporters of the Independent,
Mr. and Mrs. Leon Henry, were present;
also Dr. and Mrs. I. A. Listwan. Well-
known actors and radio-stars abounded ;
the Phillip-street Theatre was particu-
larly well represented.
V V V-
Remarks during the intervals of th
Genesians’ new production, “Shadow anc
Substance,” expressed amazement tha
one play could be so pathetic and movin
and at the same time so hilariousl
funny. But as it is about Ireland perhap
that is not so strange.
Among the firstnighters was Mrs. A
Kavanagh, who spoke of the success ol
the first card-party which St. Vincent’
Hospital Ladies’ Auxiliary held at th
Trocadero earlier in the week. Mrs
Edmund Bateman is president of thi
auxiliary, with Mrs. M. Chapman anc
Mrs. E. O’Halloran as her executive
They intend holding card-parties each
month, and their big objective is the
fete in October at the hosptial. The
money they raise will, of course, help the
drive for £500,000, which will conclude
with the hospital’s centenary in August
1957.
* * *
The magic worlds into which books can
lead us, the solace and delight of music
the excitement and mental stimulation ol
works on science—these are some of the
gifts that members of the Braille Writers
Association bring by their work to blinc
people in this State.
At the seventh annual meeting of the
association its president, Mrs. H- G.
Ringland, said that records had been
broken during the year both in the
number of books transcribed and of
transcribers. Ninety per cent, of these
workers are women, but what a valuable
and rewarding work it would be for those
many retired men who know that they
still have the power to do much good in
this world!
# #
Professor Arnold Toynbee, looking as
much like a professor as it is possible to
look, with his white hair and meditative
expression, was guest-of-honor, with Mrs.
Toynbee, at a reception given by Ihe Aus-
tralian Institute of International Affairs
at the Rural Bank building last week.
Professor Toynbee, eminent as historian
and philosopher, is visiting Australia as
Dyason Lecturer for 1956.
About 150 people were present at the
reception, and were greeted by Major-
General C. A. Osborne and Mrs.
Osborne. Among the guests were Mr.
and Mrs. D. A. S. Campbell, Mr. and
Mrs. Roy McKerihan, Miss Betty Arch-
dale, Mrs. Jean Ellis, Miss Marjorie
Jacobs, Mrs. Clunies Ross, Miss Veronica
Pike, Mr. Vincent Pike and Mrs. Persia
Porter.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. Colin Roderick was the speaker
at the first of the Royal Empire Society’s
literary luncheons held during the week.
Dr. Roderick spoke on literature and
philosophy, tracing his theme from the
Greek inspiration to the present day. In
proposing a vote of thanks, Rabbi R.
Brasch said that Dr. Roderick had shown
us the pattern of world literature and how
Australian literature fitted-in with that
pattern. Professor John Milgate, who
was present at this luncheon, will be the
speaker at the R.E.S.’s next literary-
luncheon, which will be held in a month's
time.
☆ ☆ ☆
Resolution made at the Sheep Show’s
mannequin-parade of wool-fashions: to
get a lightweight-wool evening-dress. Jt
would be just perfect for theatres and
dinner-dances these cold nights.
# #
Mr. K. F. Coles, president of the
N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children,
received a cheque for £5OO on behalf of
the society from the president of the
Teamakers’ Club, Miss Del Cartwright,
when that club held its first Birthday
Luncheon at Mark Foys’ Grey Room on
Thursday. Guests-of-honor were
Eleonore Treiber, the lovely little dancer
from “Can-Can” at the Empire, and
William Newman, its leading man. The
£5OO, which will be used to instal a
kitchen at the new recreational-hall at the
Margaret Reid Orthopsedic Hospital, St.
Ives, is the result of one year’s work by
the new club.


Missing Friends
ANGUS CAMPBELL.—WouId any rela-
tive or friend of the abovenamed, who
went to Australia from New Zealand
about 1910, please communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Public
Trust Office, Palmerston North, New
Zealand.
HIGGS.—WiII EILEEN VERA HIGGS
(n6e COULSON), the Widow of WALTER
LONSDALE HIGGS, late of Coogee, in
New South Wales, or anyone knowing her
whereabouts please communicate with the
undersigned Solicitors. EILEEN VERA
HIGGS at one time resided at Bondi Junc-
tion in New South Wales, and her last
address known to the Solicitors is 8 St.
Andrews Street, Camberwell, Victoria. —
RITCHIE & PARKER ALFRED GREEN
& CO., P.O. Box 184 C, Launceston, Tas-
mania.
THE DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Tau-
ranga, New Zealand, wishes to locate
RAYMOND KENNETH PHELPS (also
known as JACK MITCHELL and PHILLIP
BROOKE), one time skating-rink pro-
prietor of Auckland and Tauranga, N.Z.,
regarding a matter of importance to him,
and would like to hear from persons able
to supply information concerning him.
He was last heard of in Sydney about
8 years ago and may be known under
another name. Description: Age 50,
height 6ft., solid build, brownish hair.
LTMJ
Photograph of Raymond Kenneth Phelps
taken about 20 years ago.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
Ail Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
CONSERVE ALL YOU CAN IN A
LYSAGHT
HEAVY GAUGE
Four standard sizes range
from 25,000 io 100,000
gallons capacity
MATERIAL: Heavy gauge 5/5" corrugated galvanized
sheets, pre-drilled and curved. Waterproof jointing
material: bolts, nuts, washers and tools. Outlet fitting,
drilled and threaded to suit every pipe size up to 6".
Bolted construction facilitates replacement of sheets with-
out dismantling tank.
Lysaght Tanks are designed
to be erected on concrete
bases (provided by the pur-
chaser). Details of recom-
mended bases, using the
cement penetrant method of
construction, are available
on request.
Special materials for cement
penetrated concrete base are
available as optional extras.
Cement, sand and aggregate
are provided by the purchaser.
USES:
• Water conservation
• irrigation head tank
• Industrial water
storage
• Swimming pools
• Town water supply
• Fire fighting
Overflow unit available
at sfight extra cost
.. . , _
Nominal Capacity
25,000 gallons
50,000 gallons
75,000 gallons
100,000 gallons
Diameter
23ft. lOin.
33ft. sin.
40ft. 7<n.
45ft. 9in.
Height
10ft. 4in.
I Oft- 4in.
10ft. 4in.„
10ft. 4in.
Weight
IJ tons
2i tons
2| tons
tons
Price
£295
£415
£520
£590
Prices c.i.f, capital cities available an application
10,000 Gallon Water Tanks (tall or squat) are available also
10,000 GALLON WATER TANK PRICES F.O.R, NEWCASTLE
14ft. 4in. dia. ; , 10ft. 7in. high 19ft. tin. diam., 6ft. sin. high
Basic unit, £ll4 Basic unit, £9O
Write for further information and Agents' Names to:
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght lAustralial Pty. Ltd. in
• all Capital Cities.'
LCI3A/54
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Spice and Ice”
It’s almost a pity that Mr.
David N. Martin doesn’t put on
a dud show now and then down
at Sydney Tiv. Otherwise, the
present commentator’s reiterated
approval of practically every
new Tiv. bill is likely to be mis-
interpreted as stemming from a
vested interest in the place.
Maybe it’s wrong, of course.
Maybe one is just a sucker for
vaudeville. Maybe there is a
crook show among them occa-
sionally, but when all others in
the audience display every sign
of enjoying them immensely,
who is to say otherwise? Particu-
larly when they’re such damn’
good shows, anyway.
That’s how it was the other
night. One went along in a
sternly critical frame of mind
prepared to do nothing more
than justice to what went on.
Then, of course, the Tiv. lovelies
emerged, plus an extra batch of
beauty on ice—half the stage is
frozen while the boards still
make up the other half —and one
settled back to enjoy the show
and sgid “To hell with criticism.”
What else could you say about
a pair of drumsticks that beat
and tapped their unfaltering
rhythm on drums, chairs, stoves,
furniture and any odd bit of the
Tiv. scenery that happened to
be handy? Remarkable drum-
sticks, these —bouncing, dancing
and exploring under chairs and
into nooks and crannies of the
stage decorations. They ap-
peared, in fact, to be so alive
and intelligent that there seemed
no need for drummer Jack
Powell to be hanging on to them.
Then, too, there were four
pairs of skates doing such agile,
ludicrous and impossible things
that it was a wonder The Crazy
Cooks who were attached to
them could keep up with the
business.
Other gifted and highly-
educated skates belong to Reg.
Park, Adele Inge, Barbara
Howe, Joe Whitehouse, Wim de
Jong and Dorothy Dee, while
Kenny Lamb is particularly
fortunate in owning a pair of
blades with a rare sense of
comedy.
Those without skates include
compere Billy Rayes and
Doris Faye Miss Faye
contrives to get in Mr.
Rayes’s way while he does
some skilful, unobtrusive jug-
gling and patters on about “the
kind of girl you’d like to take
home to Mother if you could
trust your father” and so forth
and more so.
Joe Lawman and Joy demon-
strate that, in humor, as in other
things, enthusiasm counts for a
lot, and Billy Banks proves the
same thing about singing. Reg.
Radcliffe does some spectacular
spinning and juggling with
glittering and illuminated batons,
and the Barbour Brothers and
Jean dance on stilts in a number
that is far more skilful and pre-
carious than spectacular.
Also taking skilful and pre-
carious risks, Rih-Aruso balances
in all sorts of incredible postures
on a bicycle and finally takes the
contraption up a lofty chromium
pole and there gives every indi-
cation of trying to commit
suicide by balancing the cycle on
two shaky glass spheres while
doing handstands and so forth
on the saddle or handlebars.
Possibly, of course, one
shouldn’t have enjoyed all these
things. Possibly, bunting around
for criticism, one should go
crook at Mr. Martin for having
so much on his bill that there
wasn’t time to see some of the
acts twice over. Anything to
be critical!
But then, again, the Tiv.
lovelies are back . . .
It has been said that it is a
sign of encroaching age when
■ one begins to notice pretty girls’
legs, or girls’ pretty legs, or both.
In which case, whacko, you
little trimmah, and Back to
Methuselah!
“King* David”
“King David,’* Honegger’s
oratorio or symphonic
psalm, or musical drama—got
everything that was due to its
weight and magnificence at Mel-
bourne Town Hall from the
Royal Philharmonics and the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra.
The soloists included soprano
Betty Tucker, contralto Anne
Levin and tenor Max Worthley,
not to mention Nanette Nutt,
as the Witch of Endor, and
Kevin Mcßeath, who had the
heavy task of narrating the
rather barbarous story of the
Hebrew hero and carried it
through with great feeling and
the dignity of an Old Testament
cantor. The anonymous
trumpeter also deserves mention
—his notes were clear and thrill-
ing,
fhe brass was tremendous,
though no more so than the
chorus, which was at its
clamorous best in the Song of
Victory when David smote
Goliath on the head with a
stone and the Israelites shouted
and pursued the Philistines even
unto the gates of Ekron.
By way of contrast, this
terrific business was preceded
by the buzzing of the “Wasps”
of Vaughan Williams, and the
same composer’s Suite for Viola
and Orchestra, with Bernard
Shore, the veteran English viola-
player, whose playing was
reserved and humble.
Sir Bernard Heinze conducted
his various forces with the con-
fidence of an old campaigner.
Borovanskys
The second Borovansky pro-
gramme at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, included “Symphonie
Fantastique,” “Corrida” and
“Pineapple Poll.”
The Berlioz music in “Sym-
phonie Fantastique” is already
sufficiently frenetic, but
Kiril Vassilovsky’s choreography
makes it appear even more so by
taking it as the expression of the
inner conflict of a young, love-
sick musician whose dreams of
horror are heightened by opium
and self-pity.
In “Corrida” David Lichine
uses Scarlatti’s music in much
the same way, but in this case
it is a matador who feels his
powers are failing both with
regard to bulls and to women
and escapes from his ill-
conscience into madness, with
results which would have sur-
prised Scarlatti.
The grace, skill and passion
which Paul Grinwis and Kath-
leen Gorham bring to the insane
fantasies of the bullfighter make
it a most arresting business;
Jurek Shabekewski and Jocelyn
Vollmar do the same services to
the monstrous dreams of the
musician in the preceding ballet.
The corps de ballet have never
been so well massed and wittily
directed as they are as judges,
lawyers, witches, ghouls, furies
and vampires.
“Pineapple Poll” is all deli-
cious nonsense, and Peggy Sager
and co. give it the appropriate
treatment.
♦>
Cossacks of the Don
When the Don Cossack Choir
filed on to the Melbourne Town
Hall platform and Jaroff, their
pert, diminutive conductor,
wafted them into the “Volga
Boat Song,” nostalgic feelings
were aroused in the present com-
mentator, who heard the song,
or its primitive ancestor, rising
from timber-rafts floating down
that river to the Black Sea.
That was before World War I.
Everybody seemed able to sing
in chorus in Russia in those
days —it seemed the natural
thing to do for Siberian peasants
in railway-carriages, or for
truckloads of soldiers being
moved to European Russia all
unconscious that they were
pawns in a game that had been
started a week before because an
archduke and his morganatic
wife had been murdered by a
Serbian assassin in Sarajevo.
Without visible direction they
would burst into a folk-song, or
a “We Praise Thee, O Lord,”
and . would all take parts —there
always seemed to be a basso-
profundo and a falsetto-soprano
looking like a Tartar nomad and
whose voice soared like an
angel’s, just as in the present
choir.
Whether or not four decades
of working in mass-production
factories for the glorious bene-
fits of five-year plans has
removed this wonderful ability
in the Russian people, it still
survives in this Cossack choir,
for which Lieutenant Jaroff
selected the original ensemble
from a troop of tattered, despair-
ing and hungry machine-
gunners marooned by the for-
tunes of war somewhere near
Constantinople.
He has no doubt refined them
musically, but he has done it
without losing touch with the
tradition. It would be difficult
to imagine more admirable con-
certed singing, or anything more
touching, coming from a row
of burly men looking as im-
personal as the pipes of the great
organ behind them.
* ❖
Schubert Night
Singing of style and mature
interpretative artistry by basso
Oliver King and soprano Olga
Kolos marked the Cammeray
(Sydney) Music Group’s all-
Schubert concert.
The bulk of * the more pro-
found lieder fell to Mr. King,
and included two of the Vien-
nese master’s greatest songs:
“The Erl King” and “The Phan-
tom Double.” In Goethe’s
dramatic ballad Mr. King’s swift
changes of tone for the four
voices that of the poet-
narrator, the low one of the
Erl King, the terror-stricken
voice of the child and the
reassuring one of the anxious
father were effected with
smooth meshing of the registers
and with telling authority.
In the great climactic phase
of the Heine poem, in which the
distraught lover sees his own
double staring at the deserted
house in the moonlight-—“thou
ghastly shadow of my own
grief!”—the basso sang with
fine power and expression.
Other songs given a well-
judged assessment of their vary-
ing moods and tonal weight
were “The Lyre,” the devotional
“Litany,” “To Music” (Schubert’s
hymn of joy to his incomparable
art —excellent legato singing,
this), and three of the “Winter’s
Journey” cycle—“ The Crow,”
“The Guide Post” (with its un-
changing note in the voice to
indicate the wanderer’s unwaver-
ing stare at the fingerpost point-
ing the way to death) and the
beautiful “Linden Tree.”
Miss Kolos’s songs were
generally in a vein of rapture,
a mood she captured with easy
authority and a rich-quality
voice of effortless production.
.She was at her best in such a
song as “To Be Sung on the
Waters,” lilting and nostalgic,
and with the voice seeming to
take flight over the shimmering
waters.
There were also “The Trout,”
with the right note of whimsical
gaiety; “Serenade,” given a full
measure of rhapsody; “Love’s
Message,” one of the loveliest
of Schubert’s many “brook”
songs; “The Post,” another of
the “Winter’s Journey” cycle;
and “Night and Dreams,” one of
the most fragile of all songs,
sung with beauty of tone and
admirable control over the half-
voice and particularly fine
shading-away in the extreme of
the head-register.
Anne Menzies, clarinettist,
played an arrangement of the
andante from the “Octet” with
an engagingly mellow tone.
* ❖
“The Moon I* Blue”
“Theatre in the round” (as
they call it), of which Leila
Blake’s Intimate Theatre at the
Adyar Hall is the current Syd-
ney exponent, sets the play and
players in a more-or-less central
rectangle, with the audience on
all sides.
It’s an effective device in its
way and for its purposes. To
its credit, it puts the players and
producer under a microscope
and forces things from them that
they might by-pass at a greater
distance. It also has other less-
expected effects.
At “The Moon Is Blue” the
other evening one had an almost
irresistible urge to lean slightly
forward and pick a small piece
of fluff from the back of Leon
Peers’s otherwise immaculate
coat; and it was difficult to
refrain from taking an olive from
a bowl on a table on the “stage.”
Also, since one sits facing
the audience on the other side
of the arena, it is impossible not
to fall to studying the expres-
sions of the other watchers—the
young lady who went coy every
time one of the players unloaded
a sophisticated line ; the middle-
aged spectator who glowed and
smiled with maternal solicitude
at every touch of tenderness ;
the young fellow who tilted his
head on one side . .
And then, of course, one
suddenly wondered what one’s
own features might be doing,
(Continued on page 30)


The Windball
By J. D. WOODS
THE rain started about six-
o’clock on Friday evening
as the first of the city
trippers for the long week-
end were arriving at Marlin
Town.
Four-inches fell that night,
and the coast road flooded in a
dozen places where it crossed the
lowlands. The fishermen looked
at the skies from the windows of
their cabins and tents and
searched under mattresses for old
magazines.
Another three-inches fell on
Saturday and five on Sunday.
Most of the trippers drove home
on Sunday evening by the inland
road 200 miles through the wet
forests of spotted-gum, but 50
stubborn optimists
stayed on for the Mon-
day holiday. Another
three-inches fell on
Monday, and the hardy
ones packed-up and
made for home.
The inland road
never flooded, but
curved and looped over
and around some con-
siderable hills before
joining the main high-
way. For 20 miles the
spotted-gums lined the
bitumen as tight as
palings in a fence,
except at the corner of
Ericsson’s property, where the
firebreak left a single ironbark
along five-chains of road.
Only a couple of the trippers’
cars had got through when the
softened ground, the drenched
wad of bark and the thin top-
soil over the sandstone conspired
against the unlucky motorists.
As the wind rose at the end of
the rainstorm the ironbark
sighed, leaned, quivered and
tottered slowly across the road to
settle squarely at right-angles
with the bitumen.
pON STAMPER, the next
returning fisherman, barely
braked in time to avoid collision,
and ten-seconds later was as
narrowly missed by the following
car as he stepped on to the road
to investigate. Within five-
minutes a dozen motorists were
surveying the four-foot trunk.
“Couldn’t we go round by the
coast road?” suggested Kel
Snowdon.
Hostile and deprecatory grunts
sent him back to his jalopy.
“It was flooded by Satuiday
morning.”
“Ain’t there a detour?” he
called aggrievedly from the
driving-seat.
“This is the detour.”
A gathering circle stood and
looked at the ironbark.
“Anyone got an axe?” called
someone in a blue sweater.
A tough-skinned tall man in
jeans laughed loud and short like
a whip cracking. “Axe?” he
said. “That’s ironbark.”
“A saw, then. A crosscut.
One of those two-men jobs.”
' The whip cracked again. “Cut
through the ironbark twice?
We’d finish about breakfast-
time.”
“Two saws, then?”
“Two saws? Midnight. Any-
one got two crosscut-saws?”
No one had two crosscut-
saws.
“We might borrow one from
a . . . timber-mill, or something,”
said the man in the blue sweater.
“If we can find a timber-mill.”
Everyone examined the log
from various angles. They
climbed over it and peered into
the hole that its roots had torn,
now filling slowly with water.
Several kicked the log tentatively
or pushed at its rugged projec-
tions.
There was considerable diffi-
dence about making suggestions
now that the cynic in blue jeans
had established supremacy for
his pessimism. In generalised
terms it was thought by one
fisherman, a small man in a
leather jacket, that a kind of
derrick could be made from three
saplings, a pulley and a rope,
but no one had a rope, though
plenty had cord fishing-lines
which were remarkably strong
for their gauge.
If ropes could be made as
strong proportionately as
those lines, mountains could be
flicked out of the way. . .
The idea of plaiting the cords
was found to be impracticable ;
cigarettes were rolled and pipes
lit as the company settled down
to a consideration of the
problem. The cars, now banked-
up far beyond the bend in the
road, waited, quiet and dimlit,
impersonal, for their masters.
TT was agreed that it would be
1 quicker to build a road
around the tree than to wait for
the road-maintenance men, who,
in any case, would be on holiday-
weekend leave as they themselves
were.
Dynamite, said an examiner,
might do the trick, but they’d
need a lot of dynamite, and they
hadn’t a stick.
Fire, said another, certainly
would do the trick, but the log
would be hard to light after all
that rain and would burn for a
week or two if properly caught.
He’d known a log smoulder for a
month.
Sandy Carson burst out with
an idea suddenly.
“Anyone got a Humber Super-
Snipe?” he demanded. “The
Snipe’s got a perfect engine for
a tow. There’s nothing too heavy
for a Snipe.”
“Yeah?” sneered a gentleman
in a blue suit immediately.
“Whose Snipe are you going to
use? Who doesn’t want his
clutch any more?”
A small crowd strolled up to
the Snipe and stared with respect
at its latent power.
“Chain all the cars together
and tow,” yelled someone
suddenly.
The cynic in the blue jeans
reasserted his supremacy of
experience. “And the first car
cops the lot—pulled in two,”, he
sneered. “Anyone volunteer to
be the first car?”
No one wanted the distinction.
Kel Snowdon, the only man
among them who had caught any
fish at the weekend because he
had been the only man to
venture on the rain-drenched
beach, scrambled over the fallen
ironbark and jogged up the hill
and out of sight along the fire-
break.
Ten-minutes later he reap-
peared and rejoined the group
with the air of a man vindicated.
Striking a stance to establish
prestige and respect, “And he’s
got a tractor,” he announced.
“A tractor? How do you
know?”
“See for yourself. Tracks in
the mud.”
“Well, what are we waiting
for?”
Fifty men flowed over the
great trunk and surged up the
hill.
CJURE enough, the mud of the
firebreak had been patterned
by the giant butterpats of the
tracks of a tractor.
The mob slowed down, but
half of them waded through.
From the summit the five-chain
firebreak snaked across the valley
to the opposite hillside, where a
logger’s hut perched beyond the
squelch of the valley.
Kel Snowdon and the man in
blue jeans were unanimously
designated leaders and entrusted
with the job of interviewing the
owner of the tractor.
“We’ve got to have someone
who knows what he’s talking
about,” they agreed, and the two
experts slushed off.
Forty-minutes later three men
clambered and slithered down the
hillside towards the line of cars
and came to a halt standing on
the great log across the road.
The man in blue jeans now
appeared to be a man of very
ordinary size, while Snowdon
was a mere midget in the light
afforded by the dimmed head-
lights.
“The ginger giant,” whispered
the wag of the party.
But impatient frowns quieted
him. Nothing must be said to
offend the master-of-ceremonies.
The young timber-cutter was
truly a ginger giant. His red
beard spread halfway down his
vast chest, and his arms emerged
from the sleeves of his patterned
lumberjacket with no room to
spare.
“He wants a quid to shift the
log away,” announced Kel
Snowdon.
“A quid? Fair enough. Let’s
get going,” they chorused.
But the man in the blue jeans
held up a hand.
“A quid from each," he


\ THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Offices GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
amended quietly. “Is that right?”
—turning to the ginger giant.
A slight inclination of the head
that sent a wave flowing down
the beard and back again gave
answer from the giant.
A quid from each! That was
different. There was a sudden
quiet.
Kel Snowdon was the first to
speak. “Say,” he said, “there are
two more holes up on the hill,
as though two other trees have
come down at some time. Is
that so?”
The giant nodded.
“Across the road?”
The beard waved again.
“A quid-each both times?”
The giant moved towards
Snowdon, and Snowdon moved
back on the slippery log and
vanished.
Fifty men moved towards the
giant, and moved uneasily back
again.
“Anyone drive a tractor?”
asked Con Stamper.
The man in the blue jeans un-
ostentatiously jumped down and
joined the motorists, and Snow-
don, almost unnoticed, melted
into the crowd.
“What kind of tractor?”
The ginger giant waited, arms
across his chest and feet astride,
on the great log.
ANSWER came unexpectedly
from the direction of the
hilltop, as an increasing roar
mounted towards them and
resolved itself into an approach-
ing tractor. The giant did not
even glance around but stood
immovably scanning the faces
of the crowd before him.
The owner of the Snipe sped
to his car and switched on his
headlamps and in the beam of
light the great tractor crawled
towards them down the hill.
Ten-yards from the tfee it
stopped ; the motor cut-out, and
a figure jumped out and dropped
to the ground. The clothes were
those of a countryman, but the
voice was that of a woman.
“Don’t tell me they’re still
hagglin', Hendrick,” she said
scornfully. “Don’t they never
want to git home tonight?”
“No, ma,” were the first words
of the giant. “They don’t want
to git home tonight.”
“Well, damn their hides if
they’ll git this tractor fer a quid
each if they don’t take it this
minute,” declared the mother of
the giant. “Double or nothin’
if they haggle.”
“Double or nothin’. I’ll give
you one-minute. Take it or
leave it.”
The giant’s voice seemed to
come from a score of loud-
speakers. He meditatively
leaned against a branch that
pointed skyward, then turned
and with a jerk as though
annoyed with the branch snapped
it off at its junction with the
trunk.
“You’d better hurry. Take it?”
Respectful eyes watched the
six-inch branch being peeled of
leaves and bark.
A slow chorus of agreement
staccatoed through the crowd.
“Yeah.”
“Okay.”
“Ahuh. No alternative.”
“Right-oh.”
“Got to.”
“Whipped.”
The giant’s grim parent
climbed into the tractor.
“Collect the quids, Hendrick,”
she snapped. “Hurry up. It’s
past my bedtime.”
The giant moved to step down
from the trunk of the ironbark.
But diversion came in the form
of headlamps approaching from
the city side of the hill.
“Git goin’, Hendrick,” barked
the woman from the tractor seat.
But the car drew up at the
ironbark and a head was thrust
through the side-window.
“Hello, Mrs. Ericsson,” called
a man's voice. “Trying your
old racket again?”
“Now look here, Doctor
Peters, you keep out of this.”
T\R. PETERS opened his door,
climbed onto the log beside
the giant and stood counting the
heads below him approvingly
“Nice roll-up,” he said. “Must
be fifty or more. What are you
charging this time. A quid?”
The giant nodded.
“Nice work. Fifty-quid. I
might tell you, Mrs. Ericsson,
you’d better hurry up and collect
and get it over. Your daughter’s
husband phoned through from
Marlin Town to come right
along as her baby’s on the way
tonight. Get the tractor moving.”
A sigh of relief rose from the
crowd like a church response.
“They’ll get no quid from
me,” declared the man in the blue
jeans. “They’ll shift the ironbark
now.”
The giant looked questioningly
at his mother, whose hand moved
towards the starter.
“Oh no, they won’t,” cut-in the
doctor. “I’m not moving from
here until I’m paid for this
business. Mrs. Ericsson, you owe
me for two babies, one measles
and an appendix!. This fifty-quid
will leave us about square.”
The woman’s hand moved
again towards the starter.
“Move that log before I get
my money,” warned the doctor,
“and I’m going straight back
home. Which will you have*?”
Mrs. Ericsson jumped down
from the tractor.
“Doctor Peters,” she screamed,
“you can’t do that! Olga’s last
baby weighed seventeen
pounds! ”
“And this one looks as though
it’ll be nineteen,” rejoined the
doctor calmly, “but I’m going
back if I’m not paid on the dot.
Take it or leave it.”
The woman looked from the
doctor to the tractor, across to
the crowd and back to the doctor.
Then she bawled to her son.
“Hendrick!” she yelled. “Git
the money out of them fishermen
and look snappy, so’s I can push
this tree over. Hurry up! Git
movin’ !”
HPHE ginger giant dropped
forward off the log, holding
out his hand as he went. The
crowd of motorists contracted
like a released elastic-band amid
rumbled protests and muttered
threats.
The giant’s hamlike hand was
within a foot of the nose of the
man in the blue jeans and he
fixed him with his great blue
eyes.
“You reckon it’s worth a quid
to git home, mate?” he asked.
The man in the blue jeans
looked up at the giant and the
crowd was suddenly silent and
tense.
“I ... I reckon,” stammered
the man in the blue jeans, staring
at the hand. “Sure, Mr. Ericsson,
it’s worth a quid to get home
tonight.”
And he felt for his wallet.
Within a minute the giant had
collected from every man among
the fishermen.
The doctor stood inflexible on
the ironbark.
“Give me the money,” he said.
The giant glanced at his
mother, who nodded grimly. He
handed over the double-handful
of notes.
“Now, you motorists, keep
well over while I get through,”
said the doctor. “This case is
urgent. Start her up, Mrs.
Ericsson.”
SUDDENLY the big tractor
roared and drew alongside
the ironbark. The ginger giant
extracted a chain from its tool-
box, and soon the great tree was
moving towards the side of
the road.
The doctor’s car snaked
through before the tree was
halfway-over and, accelerating,
sped past the long line of waiting
cars towards Marlin Town. The
tractor stopped a moment and
those fishermen who were close
enough to the driver heard some
unfeminine expressions fall from
the driver’s lips.
“And not only that,” moaned
Mrs. Ericsson to her son standing
beside the driver’s seat, “but
that’s the last flamin’ ironbark
among all these ruddy spotted,
gums! ”
THE CONSOLIDATED ZINC
CORPORATION LIMITED
SATISFACTORY FINANCIAL RESULTS REFLECT RECORD
OUTPUT AND HIGHER PRICES FOR LEAD AND ZINC
The seventh annual general meet-
ing of The Consolidated Zinc Cor-
poration Limited will be held on
June 18, at 37 Dover Street, London,
W.l.
The following are extracts from
the statement by the Chairman,
Mr. John R. Govett, which has been
circulated with the report and
accounts for the year ended De-
cember 31, 1955.
. The story of the year 1955 is one
of record output and improved
efficiencies of the mine, satisfac-
tory progress by the smelting
and other activities, higher realised
prices for lead and zinc, and a
greater investment income, but a net
profit showing little change, due
to the penalties of higher mining
royalty and taxation.
The ore production of the Zinc
Corporation’s mine at Broken Hill
was 645,959 tons, the highest figure
yet achieved there, and approxi-
mately 9 per cent, over the record
output of 1954. With an increasing
proportion of the ore coming from
the zinc lode and from the deeper
levels of the lead lode, the average
lead grade of the ore is lower than
last year, but, even so, the recover-
able lead produced during the year
shows a modest increase over 1954.
It is also encouraging that the
average cost per ton of ore was
lower than that for the previous year
despite higher average earnings and
lead bonus. This improvement re-
flects great credit on the manage-
ment and the employees and shows
an overall increase in efficiency, due
partly to an extended use of the
most modern mining methods and
equipment.
The activities of Imperial Smelt-
ing Corporation in the United King-
dom have also been satisfactory.
In spite of substantial increases in
the price of coal and electricity,
higher transport charges and
higher wages paid to our own em-
ployees, the profits from trading for
the year were maintained at approxi-
mately the same level as for 1954,
but substantial expenditure incurred
on research and development of the
Imperial Smelting Process has been
charged to revenue.
Our results have also benefited
from the higher profits earned by our
investments in our associated com-
pany, New Broken Hill Consolidated,
whose mine is adjacent to that of the
Zinc Corporation at Broken Hill, and
in British Titan Products Company
Limited, in which we have a 30 per
cent, interest.
The consolidated profit for the
Group before charging mining
royalty and taxation amounted to
£6,186,534, compared with £5,463,720
for the previous year, an increase of
£722,814. This result is after provid-
ing £1,095,859 for depreciation, an
increase of £153,186 over the pro-
vision made in 1954.
Royalty and Taxation
Mining royalty payable to the New
South Wales Government on the
profits of the mine at Broken Hill
increases steeply as these profits rise
and the charge for 1955 amounts to
£914,653, compared with £593,289 for
1954' an increase of £321,364. This
royalty is calculated on a graduated
scale with the percentage increasing
by 2 per cent, on each additional
£A200,000 of assessable profits, with
the result that for 1955 the top
royalty rate levied is 48 per cent.
The charge for taxation for the
year amounts to £2,921,629 compared
with £2,403.698 for 1954. an increase
of £517 931. This increase is partly
attributable to the tax payable on
the increased profits and also to the
additional profits tax payable on the
increased distribution to share-
holders.
Mining royalty and taxation to-
gether require £3,836,282 which is
£839,295 greater than the charge for
1954. The effect is that the whole of
the additional profit earned in 1955
is absorbed by royalty and taxation
and, after allowing for the interests
of minority shareholders, the con-
solidated net profit for the year
amounts to £2,344,928, which is £38,450
less than the net profit for 1954.
Transfers to general reserves have
been made, amounting to £1,000,000,
which is considerably lower than the
£1,500,000 for 1954, when the amount
available was increased by provisions
no longer required and distributions
to shareholders were lower.
Dividends on Preference shares
have been paid on 7,581,340 shares,
compared with 4,476,626 shares last
year, as a result of the exchange of
Consolidated Zinc Corporation Pre-
ference shares in January, 1955, for
those of Imperial Smelting Corpora-
tion.
An interim dividend of Is. 6d. per
share has been paid on Ordinary
shares, compared with Is. 3d. per
share for 1954 on the smaller capital
then issued. A final dividend is pro-
posed of 3s. per share, compared with
2s. 6d. per share for 1954; giving a
total of 4s. 6d. per share.
The balance on the Consolidated
Appropriation Account carried for-
ward at 31st December, 1955, amounts
to £967,005, compared with £905,445,
at the end of the previous year.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet
shows that the cash resources of the
Group are substantial and this puts
us in a strong position to finance
further extensions of our activities.
Capital expenditure during the
year on buildings, plant and equip-
ment amounted to £1,352,839, of
which more than half related to the
extension of the plants at Cockle
Creek in New South Wales for the
production of acid and superphos-
phate, and at Stradbroke Island,
Queensland, for the production of
rutile and zircon. The programme
of work at Stradbroke Island was
slightly delayed with labor and ship-
ping troubles, but production on
a greatly increased scale com-
menced in the second quarter of
1956.
In the United Kingdom Imperial
Smelting Corporation has continued
its development of the Imperial
Smelting Process with particular
emphasis on the smelting of zinc in
association with lead and other
metals. The progress has been en-
couraging, and considerable interest
is being shown by a number of
mining and smelting interests over-
seas.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation
of Canada Limited, the subsidiary
company which we formed in 1952,
has increased the scope of its opera-
tions, and is now participating
with several other Canadian mining
interests in the examination and test-
ing of a number of mineral pros-
pects. Most of this work is still in
the early stages.
Metal Prices
Last year in reviewing the course
of the lead and zinc markets I
stressed the important part played
by the U.S. stockpile in determining
prices by the removal of surplus
stocks. During the past twelve
months the influence of the stock-
pile has to some extent been lessened
owing to increasing demand
throughout the Western world for
both metals. The later months of
1955 and the early months of 1956
showed production and consumption
to be so evenly balanced that only
token deliveries were offered to the
stockpile authorities. The net result
of these operations has been to raise
the U.S. price of zinc from 9| cents
per pound and the price of lead from
12i cents per pound, from- March,
1954, to the present quotations of
131 cents and 16 cents respectively,
whilst the stocks which had accumu-
lated in the hands of mines and
smelters in previous years have now
been locked away for an indefinite
period.
Perhaps the most significant
feature of the rise in prices has been
the failure of the U.S. mining in-
dustry to make any worthwhile in-
creases in production. Nevertheless
it might be more correct to hazard
a guess that, but for the Administra-
tion’s stockpiling policy, mine pro-
duction might have fallen very
sharply.
In recent weeks there has been
some falling off in the demand for
all metals, due mainly to the re-
cession in the motor-car industry in
the U.S.A. and this country. The
psychological effect of the sharp fall
in copper prices has has also played
an important role, and until confi-
dence is restored there is every indi-
cation that the markets will remain
sensitive. However, the tonnage of
lead and zinc that can still be
acquired by the stockpile is suffi-
ciently great to provide reasonable
stability at around the present level
6f prices. Looking further ahead,
we may assume that the growth of
industrial activity in the world at
large and increasing population will
call for greater tonnages of both
metals.
Another factor which must for the
time being influence world com-
modity markets has been the spec-
tacular rise in ocean tramp rates
throughout the world over the past
eighteen months. A major cause
has been the heavy volume of coal
traffic between the U.S.A. and
Europe, and the situation, as far as
Australia is concerned, has been
further aggravated by dock strikes
and import restrictions which have
accentuated the shortage of tonnage
available in Australian waters. These
high freights, which are double those
ruling eighteen months ago, particu-
larly affect our zinc concentrates,
which are for the most part carried
by tramp steamers. Lead metal has
also had to carry appreciably higher
rates, as shipping conferences have
increased their tariffs in sympathy
with tramp rates.
With the threat of substitution by
other metals or materials, we con-
tinue to give wholehearted support
to the Lead Development Association
and Zinc Development Association.
As price enters into this question
of substitution equally with quality,
we believe that in the present range
of world costs present levels are
sufficiently attractive to most pro-
ducers, and our aim must still be to
work for greater efficiencies and a
broadening demand.
There has been some disappoint-
ment that prices quoted by the Lon-
don Metal Exchange, which has such
a great influence on the price struc-
ture of metals in every country,
have not been based on a larger
turnover. There are, however, major
difficulties in establishing a more
representative market when surplus
stocks gravitate towards the U.S.A.,
which has now become the largest
net importer of lead and zinc in
metal and concentrate form.
Although the day-to-day fluctuations
of the Metal Exchange are some-
times harassing to the consumer
industry the movements during 1955
have nevertheless conformed very
closely to the improved statistical
position of the metals concerned.
Operations
In all the major branches of our
operations the year’s results are ex-
cellent. In this country the works
of Imperial Smelting Corporation
have had a very successful year, the
corporation’s production of zinc
metal being very close to the all-time
record achieved during the previous
year.
The demand for zinc in the brass
and galvanising industries has been
well sustained, and it is of interest
that the special requirements of the
newly erected continuous plants for
steel strip galvanising are being
met by supplying a new grade of
zinc involving small amounts of
alloying additions.
Production of Mazak zinc alloy
increased and was considerably
above the 1947 figure, . hitherto the
peak for the output of this metal
in peace-time. The die-casting in-
dustry continued to expand and to
increase its productive capacity.
Whilst there are signs of a tem-
porary recession in the motor-car
and other user industries the longer
term outlook for the die-casting
industry is encouraging. This
should lead to a further increase in
the demand for Mazak.
The output of sulphuric acid was
slightly lower than the record pro-
duction made in 1954. The pros-
pects for 1956 are good, with indi-
cations that a market will prevail
for every ton of sulphuric acid that
can be produced by the corporation.
In Australia, mine outputs are the
highest recorded and the expansion
in tonnage is coupled with further
increases in general efficiencies in
underground operations. At the
Cockle Creek works of the Sulphide
Corporation Pty. Ltd. superphos-
phate production increased by
almost 60% as a result of the plant
Extensions completed late in 1954,
and operation of the new contact
sulphuric acid plant which was com-
missioned early in 1955. Among
other activities, operations on Strad-
broke Island for the production .of
rutile and zircon have built up to
levels which yielded satisfactory
profit, and the programme for ex-
pansion of output will shortly be
completed. The search for oil con-
tinues to be carried out by a most
competent staff with the support of
highly qualified organisations in the
TJ.K. and the U.S.A. A further year’s
successful effort has been devoted to
the management of the Rum Jungle
uranium project on behalf of the
Commonwealth Government and the
output of uranium oxide has steadily
increased.
As Recently announced. Mr. M. A.
Mawby and Mr. R. C. Atherton have
been elected to the Board. Mr.
Mawby. Vice-Chairman of Consoli-
dated Zinc Pty. Ltd., has been asso-
ciated all his life with the Broken
Hill milling industry and has of
recent years played an ever increas-
ing part in the direction of the
Group’s activities in Australia. Mr.
Atherton has been Finance Man-
ager of the Group for a number of
years. We warmly welcome them to
the Board.
The excellent results recorded in
this summary could not i have been
achieved without the loyhl and en-
thusiastic service and co-operation
of the managements, staffs, and all
employees at the various mines,
smelters, works and offices. In addi-
tion to expressing the Board’s sin-
cere appreciation of the efficient ser-
vice rendered, I am sure that share-
holders would also wish me to voice
their thanks and express their con-
gratulations on the progress made
in the year under review. In look-
ing to the future, I feel that we have
every justification for hoping that, in
the absence of adverse changes in
world conditions, the further pro-
gress to be achieved in the present
year will be no less satisfactory.
JOHN R. GOVETT.
10th May, 1956.


A
C
Australia's Leading
Hire Purchase
Organisation
Established
over 25 years
Assets exceed
£40,000,000
SHORT TERM
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
returning
FOR 24
MONTHS
INTEREST
414%
4%
3 3 4%
3'/4%
CUMENCY
12 months
9 monf! s
6 months
3 months
frtrsrfil* psr wnuffi, psysb f® ovjficfiy of
FULIt SECURED
PROSPECTUS showing
details also of Long
term to 6-}%, and 6%
Cumulative Stock obtain-
able from.
All Members of Stock Exchanges
and all Branches of
E. S. & A. Bank Ltd.
National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
and
Induslrisl Acceptance Corporation Ltd.
104 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. FB 0291
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO., MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
56.5.1 c
«»S«r
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only
SCHOOL
GREAT
situated
PUBLIC
in * the
Country-
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the ScheoL
Illustrated Prospectus os
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
The Dressmaker
By
Danice
Symons
SHE had been coming to
Grandmother long before
my mother married, so I
suppose she must have
grown older, but to me she
always looked the same except
for her hair, which was now
quite grey.
Her pale, wrinkled face' and
her thin, dumpy figure looked as
if her digestion had suffered from
the meals she had been given all
the years she sat in the houses of
other people, sewing for dear
life. She was so busy sewing
for others she had no time (or
money) to spend on her own
clothes.
I suspect we all underpaid her.
Her skirts and dresses were non-
descript, usually in fawn, which
toned only too well with her
complexion, or burgundy, which
clashed horribly.
She was always slightly deaf,
and perhaps the noise of the
whirring machines had made it
worse, though at times she heard
more than you would think;
often the case with deaf people.
Eventually those ladies in the
town for whom she sewed
clubbed together and bought her
a hearing-aid, probably as much
in self-defence as kindness. If
she was invaluable in each house-
hold, being quick and well-versed
in the art of making one-and-a-
half garments out of the material
normally required for one alone,
a whole day of polite shouting
can tire even the stoutest matron.
No doubt her clever fingers
grew slower with the years, but
she still managed to do an amaz-
ing amount in one day. All the
important days of our lives were
marked by a visit from her. She
must have made my mother’s
wedding-dress, though my
mother was never one for talking
of that day. She certainly made
most of my dresses for special
occasions, and those of my
sister. I remember with joy my
first' grown-up evening-dress,
down to my ankles ; well worth
the extra number of fittings in-
volved. I achieved the dress
only after my first evening class
of ballroom-dancing. My mother
sent me off unknowingly in a
short dress and little dancing-
slippers. Alas, all the other
girls had long frocks and high-
heeled shoes!
The dressmaker fascinated me
as a child. She often wore a
green eyeshade to ease eyestrain,
I remember. She had a way of
putting pins in her mouth while
fitting you, and sucking air
through her teeth, which I found
irresistible, too. The inevitable
remark was that we children
must never do that. It was part
of the fuss and importance of
sewing-day, and I longed for the
time when, I, too, could put pins
in my mouth and pucker my
forehead, drawing breath
through my teeth as I adjusted
some intricacy of the art.
The day had thrill and excite-
ment even when I knew there
would be nothing for me. There
would be some brand-new crea-
tion for someone, if merely
pyjamas for Father. The bad
parts were the standing and
clearing-up afterwards, though it
seemed only fair to suffer a little
for the joy of new clothes. It
is still incredible to me that all
those pins, needles, material and
cottons could be stuck in the
carpet in one day.
The children wherever she
went welcomed her as part of a
day out of routine. She had
many tales to tell of them. At
this house the little girl aged
six fancies herself as a seam-
stress and uses the machine quite
well. At another she is presented
With a buttonhole posy by the
young master of four, which
she accepts with thanks and
wears with resignation. Some-
times if he accompanied her to
the tram she felt awkward, she
confided to me once. She
imagined people would look at
her, unable to remove the posy
for fear of offending, even when
it consisted of weeds, quite dead
weeds.
She sewed for my grandmother
until she died. At ninety, that
strong-minded old lady was not
always easy to manage. No one
at any time heard Smithy, as we
called her affectionately,
grumble, though in times of
stress she would occasionally
turn off the battery to her hear-
ing-aid. She did what she could
to prevent shortsighted Grand-
mother going out garnished with
bright tacking-threads on her
latest models. Often while Grand-
mother had forty-winks upright
in a straight-backed chair, she
would hastily unpick and resew
something the old lady had done
to help. With her failing sight
Grandmother’s former fine sew-
iijg was no more. On waking, she
would heartily deny she had
slept, and have a proper rest-
after lunch she would not, until
the day she died.
GRANDMOTHER had a
_ unique maid, one Violet.
Violet had been discovered by
my mother, you might even say
rescued, such had been her life
before that. Violet had helped
Mother until Mother thought she
was corrupting our young minds
with her incessant talk of men
and marriage. Violet is a family-
legend.
There is, for example, the tale
of the phone-call. On my
mother’s return from a visit she
asked Violet if anyone had tele-
phoned. Violet scratched her
head and decided the answer was
yes.
“Who did, Violet?”
“One person did, Mrs.
Elwood.”
“But who was it, please?”
“You did, Mrs. Elwood.”
True, my mother had rung to
remind her to put on the dinner.
Another time she had showed us
some garters she had bought,
delicate mauve crinkled ribbon
over elastic, with many rosebuds
embedded in them. Her remark
as she giggled coyly became a
household saying: “They ought
to look rich on a white leg, Mrs.
Elwood.”
In later years Violet developed
quite a hold over my grand-
mother and grew extremely
jealous of anyone who came in
touch with her, even of my
mother, her daughter. Violet
caused endless trouble between
Grandmother and other people,
rushing like a fox-terrier from
one to the other, reporting each
action of the other person to the
older woman with an air of “I
told you so.” Her agitation made
my mother’s task of putting on
the kettle, for instance, appear
as a heinous crime of the first
order.
Smithy was always being spied-
on in this fashion. As Grand-
mother grew older she would be
agitated and fuss, too. Anyone
else would have been exacer-
bated, but you never knew, with
Smithy. She would only say how
sad it was to see Grandmother
failing so fast, and Violet was
not to be blamed, she could not
help herself. Then the thread,
scissors and other tools of the
trade would disappear and only
Violet would be able to find
them, mystified as to how they
could have put themselves under
the bed or behind the old-
fashioned washstand. Smithy
would shake her head and decide
that Violet was growing more
queer with the years.
Smithy, of course, made all of
Violet’s clothes, too. Once, years
ago, it was felt pearls were
required for some outfit, so the
dressmaker took hers off and
put them round Violet’s neck.
Now, the latter person, though
not so young, still had an
attraction for some members of
the opposite sex. She had
recently been given a beautiful
string of pearls, she said. She
produced these afterwards with
her giggle and a flourish and they
were much admired, Smithy say-
ing they were much better than
hers.
That weekend she was sur-
prised by a visit from Violet and
Grandmother, in the house where
she lived with her sister, her
sister’s husband and family. The
old lady was exhausted, as they
had caught the wrong tram and
had had to walk further than was
necessary. Granny was embar-
rassed, but Violet came straight
to the point, and said that she
thought Smithy had worn her,
Violet’s, pearls home after the last
sewing-day, instead of Smithy's
own. She was still not sure after
Smithy had produced hers and
Granny had seen at once, even
with her old eyes, that the dress-
maker’s were the inferior ones.
As has been shown, Violet was
no genius, even if she had a talent
for trouble-making. Smithy’s
reaction was concern over
Grandmother’s having walked
so far in tl?e heat, wanting her
to rest a while and have a cup of
tea, but Violet insisted they could
not stay, so' off they went.
Smithy was still worrying that
no tea had been partaken of next
time she came to sqjw. She was
even more troubled to learn that
Grandmother would have liked
a cup, but was not asked. Smithy
remembered it was Violet to
whom she had suggested the
matter. It would be like Violet;
a sort of back-hander for her
mistake over the pearls.
A LL these years the dressmaker
had come, and it was only
recently Mother discovered she
served another family, at the
time much in the local gossip for
some scandal or other.
Nevertheless it was not Smithy
who had been gossiping, such
was her loyalty. Goodness
knows how many girls she had
dressed from babyhood to the
birth of their own babies, with
the same quiet pleasure for each
one. Many young men would
blush to know how many pairs
of pants they owed to her skil-
ful making, though she never
seemed overenthusiastic or keen
on making them. The general
opinion is that she disliked
('Continued on page 24)


m
m
A
mm
■■ %
m
sm
m
■
kt
■m
■ x y-v-
Outer
Suit
Flying
7'6
★ Waltham
STAR
BARGAINS
■jc Directors
Mk. V. Ideal for Surveying and all builders
requirements. Graduated in one degree
intervals from 0 to 360 degrees in a hori-
zontal plane, with a vernier adjustment
giving readings of accuracy to within five
minutes. Fifty degrees of inclination and
declination with a vernier adjustment read-
ing in five minute intervals. Fitted with
Compass and Levels. The sighting device
is a telescopic sight with cross hairs and
grid. Complete with two eyepieces—one
Xl5, and the other X 8 magnification. Com-
plete with carrying case.
Price: £l7/10/-
Packing and delivery to railhead 5/- extra
jc Miners* Lamps
Ideal for all night work requiring two free
hands. Complete with spill-proof Nife
Battery to give you 8 hours of continuous
use. The perfect light for Spear Fisher-
men, Electricians working under houses, or
in rafters, etc.
Bess Battery 12/6 each
Nife Battery only ■ 35/- each
(2.5 volt 8 amp.)
Price (with battery) 47/6 each.
Packing and Postage 6/6 Interstate 10/6
★ Midget Motors
Fitted with reduction gear. Made by J.
Oster. 271 volt Motor and Gear Box. Two
take-offs ; one approx. 6 r.p.m., and the
other approx. 22 r.p.m. Motor revs. 5000
PRICE 27.5 volt £5/-/-. each
12 volt £5/19/6 each
Packing and Postage: 7/6 Interstate:lo/6.
if Compasses
TYPE Dl2. Accurate
American made MOUNT-
ING COMPASS. Liquid
damped, needle type, With
adjustable azimuth circle
calibrated in degrees.
Ideal for all types of
Boats. Dimensions: Tin.
diameter; sin. deep.
PRICE: £4/10/-.
Packing: and Postage: 7/6
Interstate: 10/6
★ Telescopic Sights
Precision built finest qual-
ity SIGHTS, as used by the
British Army in Malaya.
Finest lenses used.
Magnification of X 4.
Provision for altering focus.
Fitted with cross hairs.
Easily adaptable to stand-
ard mountings.
Length 11 inches ; Weight
16ozs.
Price £6/19/6
Reg.
3/6
Postage and Packing:
Interstate: 5/-
FLYING SUITS!
FLYING SUITS!
<s*
Winter Flying Suit
Ideal for all outdoor uses where a strong, warm and pro-
tective clothing Is needed. Suggested uses (In addition to
flying)—Tractor Driving, Motor Cycling, Truck Driving,
use as an all-weather clothing on Boats, etc. These standard R.A.A.F. FLYING SUITS
(as shown on left) are brand new, and available in a complete range of fittings from
Size 0 to Size 6. Made of heavy proofed canvas, they are fitted with zippers on side,
legs and sleeves for quickness and comfort. Ample pocket space is provided. Detachable
FUR COLLAR which buttons on to Flying Suit Collar is optional at 5/- extra.
IMPORTANT: When ordering Flying Suits please give details of height and weight.
Price: Only 87/6 each. Packing and Postage: 6/-. Interstate: 10/6
Overalls
Lightweight R.A.A.F. FLYING OVERALLS. Light, comfortable,
easily washable overalls, suitable for either indoor or outdoor
use. Ideal as Boiler Suits, Gardening Overalls, Mechanics’ Overalls,
etc. Carry one always in the car for that unexpected dirty job! Brand new, one-
piece, double-breasted, available In all sizes 0 to 6.
Price: 29/6 each. Packing and Postage: 3/6 Interstate: 6/6
Teddy Bear Inners
Also available, a limited quantity
FLYING SUITS. Good quality,
Sleeping Bags.
of FUR INNER
make excellent
Trice: 37/6 each. Packing: and Postage: 4/- Interstate: 8/-
Gloves
White Art Silk, Inner Flying Gloves. The ideal all-purpose Glove.
Particularly handy for car drivers. Large range of sizes. Made of four
thicknesses of art silk.
At the Give-away PRICE of 3/6 a pair. (Sorry no mail orders)
• SPECIAL
Recording Tape
Smash Purchase!
We have recently pur-
chased from the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Com-
mission a large quantity
of RECORDING TAPE,
manufactured by E.M.I.
The quantity of the pur-
chase enables us to offer
this Tape to the public at
a remarkably low figure.
Available in the follow-
ing lengths:— . . ....
3000 ft £3/3/
400 ft H/“
PEEASE ADD POSTAGE
TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT
• These FIEED TELEPHONES give an efficient, reliable and trouble-
free ‘method of inter-phone communications. Foolproof in operation,
easy to install —simply connect two units with Telephone Wire and
they are ready for operation anywhere. Available in the following
types:—
• FREDDIE PHONES. Entirely self-contained unit. Inbuilt battery
compartment containing two 1.5 X Cells. Standard P.M.G. Handset.
Externally mounted double-action bells. Effective range of up to
20 miles. PRICE; £B/10/0 each.
• OLNEY PHONES. Compact wall or desk phone. Built into a
polished wooden box. Dimensions: 9fins. x 7ins. x 3fins. Externally
mounted, loud-ringing, double-action bells. Standard Handset and
Generator. Can be used effectively over distances of many miles.
PRICE £6/10/0 each.
• TELEPHONE WIRE: 3-mile reels Don 111 Single Insulated Wire,
ex-Army, £B/10/0 reel. 1-mile reels Don 111 Single Insulated Wire,
ex-Army, £2/19/6 reel. SWITCHBOARDS: 6-line standard Army Type
with drop shutter indicators £6/10/0 each. TELEPHONE HAND
GENERATORS —12/6 each. 6/- Packing and delivery to railhead charge
on all Telephone Equipment.
PLASTACELLE
the Wonder Plastic
Why suffer the discomfort of a broken car windscreen, Sheeting
or side curtain? Play safe and always have a spare &
sheet of “FEASTACEI,!,” on hand.
Ideal for all purposes where clear vision and durability are needed.
Suitable for use in cars, caravans, seacraft, window displays, model
work, etc.
Transparent, non-inflammable, flexible, light, may be easily cut, formed,
solvent bonded and laminated.
Available in the following sizes and thicknesses
Full sheets 50” x 21”
Half Sheets 25” x 21”
Qtr. Sheets 12J” x 21”
as as as
a s a s a a
to to xh to
(approx.
( „
( „
( „
( „
( „
5/32”)
3/16”)
5/32”)
3/16”)
5/32”)
... 90/-
... 85/-
.. .i 45/-
... 42/6
... 22/6
... 21/3
Packing and delivery to railhead 5/- extra.
Melbourne
229 Elizabeth
Street
TRADING CO.
Sydney 96 Oxford Street
Mail Order P.O. Box 22
Adelaide
243 Runclle
Street
Hydraulic Control Units
As used to traverse or elevate Bofors Gun. Easily
adaptable to general industrial use, such as drawing
a conveyor belt, or any unit which requires a variable
or set speed, forward or reverse direction.
This unit delivers 98 per cent, efficiency at ALL revs.
Complete with 130 volt 50 cycle motor of approximately
£ li.p., and two Selsyn control motors.
Approx, revs on final drive 0—250 in either direction.
Will handle up to 1| HP. A normal clutch set-up is
fitted between the motor and output shaft.
Price £2O
Packing and delivery to railhead 10/6 extra.
• Sleeping Bags
Brand new standard size.
Quilted type, wool lined.
Comfortable and warm. Price:
£5/15/0 each. Packing and
Postage: 4/- Interstate; 8/-.
• Safety Belts
Quick Release! Ex-R.A.A.F.
PRICE: 27/6 each.
Packing & Postage: 3/6
Interstate: 6/-.
• Computers
Average Speed COMPUTORS.
Ideal for Car Trials. Price:
17/6 each. Packing and
Postage: 2/3. Interstate:
3/8.
Generators
Precision-built, these GENERATORS are
easily adaptable to Industrial or Home
Lighting requirements.
Types available are as follows:
Type “P” 24 volt 200 amp., each £5O 0 0
Type “KX”
24 volt 1500 watt (62 amp.), ea. 917 6
Type “O” 30 volt 100 amp. .. 25 0 0
Packing & delivery to railhead 5/- extra.
Regulator & Cut-out 24/30 volt,
each £3 10 0
Cut-outs 12 volt 40 amp., each.. 9 11
Ammeters 50-0-50 centre scale, ea. 2 10 0
Packing & Postage: 5/- Interstate: 6/-.
■
Batteries
24 volt 11 amp. hour BAT-
TERIES. Brand new in
cartons, in original storage
state. Lightweight aircraft
type. American made. Built
in sturdy metal case. Ideal
for Caravan use, Small
Ships’ Lighting, etc.
PRICE: 39/6 each
Packing and delivery to rail-
head 5/- extra
Fishermen—makte your own rods
from one of our TANK WHIP AERIALS
If you need a strong, flexible rod, made from super-
tempered tubular steel and|
costing a mere fraction of its
commercial equivalent, then
then these will interest you.
Ideal also for use as Car or
Truck Aerials. Available in
4ft. sections, either screw-in
or plug-on fittings, in the fol-
lowing types:—
American screw-in type, 3 sec-
tions (12ft.), per set ...35/-
English slotted type, 3 sec-
tions (12ft.), per set .. 22/6
English slotted type, 2 sec-
tions (Bft.), per set .. ISA-
Aerial Bases to lit above,
each 7/6
Packing & Freight (all States)
5/- extra.
Walkie-Talkie Sets
Wireless Set 38MK2
The Ideal Person-to-Person Communica-
tion Set. Working range of approx,
two miles Set to Set on a vertical, rod
aerial, or ten miles approx, working from
a good Receiver and High Power Trans-
mitter. Frequency coverage of 7.2 to 9.2
Mes., which can be modified, if required,
to change frequency.
Contains five valves: I—ATP.4: 4—ARP.I2.
Operates from 3 volt and 120 volt Batteries.
Complete with microphone, headset and 4ft.
Aerial Section.
Price, less Batteries, £9/10/-
Packing and delivery to railhead 7/6 extra
Fuel Pumps
Brand new in cartons.
AMERICAN THOMPSON
FUEL PUMPS. Suitable for
pumping all types of liquids,
water, etc. Make first-clas3
bilge pump for boats, small
irrigation system pump and
many other applications.
Capacity 400 gallons per
hour. Price £3/17/6.
Packing and Postage: 6/-
Interstate: 8/6.
9
Above Pump flitted with 24 volt
Motor
£l2/10/-
Packing and delivery to rail 5/-
Electric
extra.


4-1 *4
$
□
E
-9*9
CwSA
as^sia
OOQ
£UG
ft
ft
-4
j^t-,4
9
I
□
9=3
mm
UNN
a
a4_ _
AVIATION
9
SERVICE
Operated tn Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited London
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2
.... £2/16/“
Foreign
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
making trousers. Perhaps there
were too many buttonholes.
Naturally she had little ways to
which you became accustomed
and for which you made allow-
ances. TTiere was, for instance,
the tendency to allow too much
width in the seams for growth
and shrinkage, unnecessary if the
material is unshrinkable an,d you
hope you have ceased to grow
outwards. On leaving school you
wanted to cut a splendid figure ;
clothes had to be fitting—a»id
bother the shrinkage and large
hems, should fashion decree
longer skirts.
How she would like to have
married, herself, but probably
youthful chances did not recur.
She would have made a
splendid wife and mother. Talk-
ing of marriages, however: one
day an extraordinary thing hap-
pened, proving even the im-
possible possible. Violet, now
admitting to fifty of the years
plainly marked on her face,
became engaged. Not only that,
she was married.
Grandmother gave her a party
and we all did some of the cook-
ing, as Violet had never mastered
that art; and as one of the wed-
ding-guests remarked, “You
wouldn’t read about it.” But there
at the church was the ’groom,
resplendent in new striped
suit, carnation in buttonhole,
and brown-and-white crepe-soled
golf-shoes. After the ceremony
(a church wedding had been
insisted on), Violet asked the
rector “Shall I smile or look
serious?”
The wedding-dress had been
made by Smithy, who had diffi-
culty persuading Violet to put on
her corsets for the fittings. So
she could not be blamed that her
old tendency reasserted itself
and the frock was too large
round the middle. This fact was
unnoticed by Violet, prinking at
the mirror in her finery. Never
was there such a flutter in the
little house. It needed all Grand-
mother’s bossing to dress the
bride.
I don’t know what it cost
Smithy to make that frock. I
couldn’t have done it, especially
after Violet remarked that she
supposed she would continue to
have her things made by Smithy
if they were done as nicely as
ever. But fortunately Smithy was
relieved of that honor; Violet
explained that she was now
being dressed by her husband.
Peering under her jewellery at
her mixture of the clothes of
every season, color, purpose and
period, teenage onward, we were
glad it was not due to Smithy.
She had never looked like that
before.
T BLUSH even now to think of
A my first days with the dress-
maker as a person in my own
right. Being in my teens rather
stout, as an elderly relative put it,
I had been sensibly dressed in
neat, tailored clothes. As a
reaction I overdid it in my urge
for frivolous femininity once I
was my own mistress.
Oh, the frills and furbelows!
And then my turban-period, over
which I draw a veil even now.
I asked Smithy if she didn’t grow
tired when I asked her to do
things which would never look
right when finished. She said no,
she always hoped for the best,
and I had to learn. She had
nothing to complain of in all her
years of sewing for other people,
liking most of them and making
allowances for the rest. Violet
she excused as not very bright,
and therefore not responsible for
her behavior.
I like to think-out my sewing-
days well in advance, allotting
new garments to whoever is in
most need. It is a serious matter
in this and all the other house-
holds Smithy visits, where thrift
is the order of the day. The
dressmaker’s sister is old now,
and sometimes Smithy cannot
come if she is ill, but stays
at home to look after her. Sitting
on the floor by my pattern-box,
I hoped that when Smithy was
too old to work she would not be
forgotten, in the small town
where she had done so much for
so many people.
Imagine my surprise when one
day that Smithy could not come
to me and I had gone to town
I thought I saw her walking
arm-in-arm with a man of about
her age. It could not be, and yet
it was she, and the man with
her was not her brother-in-law,
either.
It was not like Smithy to turn
her friends down and then idle
the day away. I was so amazed
I turned and passed them again
to make sure, and this time
there was no doubt about it, and
were quite oblivious of
anyone else. Her friend looked
more like a successful book-
maker than a member of the,
strict church to which Smithy
belonged. Oh, well, good luck
to them, I thought. Who was I
to stand in their way? Not wish-
ing to embarrass her and spoil
her day I did not go up and
speak to her. If anyone deserved
to marry and live happily ever
afterwards it was Smithy.
The most extraordinary thing
was that Smithy, with her un-
fortunate gift for choosing un-
suitable clothes, looked very
smart. She was almost elegant,
in the latest of everything. With
her suit she wore a black model
hat, with suede gloves, shoes and
expensive bag to match, a beauti-
ful fur necklet and, what really
took my eye, a lovely diamente
brooch in the shape Of a spider,
pinned to the lapel of her coat.
I do not like spiders, but this was
so well* done the diamonds and
ruby might almost have been
real. The horrible perfection of
it stuck in my mind. Even her
hair had received expert atten-
tion and a blue-rinse, which was
most becoming, as it was not
overdone.
“Blow me down! ” I muttered,
to the consternation of a fellow-
pedestrian. Then I flattered my-
self that she had learnt at last
from her clientele, and even, I
thought rather smugly, from me.
Smithy evidently had copied my
ideas in the suit she was wear-
ing ; it was so similar to one I
had at home.
My wardrobe is full of clothes.
I frankly admit it, I am a
hoarder. My twenty-first-birth-
day suit is still there, next to
a tarnished evening-gown fully
fourteen years old; and that
hideous purple coat I don’t like
to discard, just in case purple
should become fashionable or the
children were to act in a play
with a bishop for one of the
characters. I lose sight of gar-
ments for months, and then more
often than not they reappear
miraculously.
Finishing my shopping in the
usual frustration, as invariably
one of the articles on my list is
temporarily or permanently un-
obtainable, I treated myself to
tea-and-biscuits. Refreshed, I
staggered home laden to the
Plimsoll-line. Oh dear, I thought,
as I looked into my purse, these
things had to be bought! It
would be a case of pea-soup for
a while until the economy
recovered.
pUTTING away my good
clothes I idly looked for my
suit that was so like the one of
Smithy’s. It was not there. I
suppose I am an untidy person,
as there was the usual mess in
the cupboard, but if the door
was shut all looked well. In
truth, the cupboard-doors have
an unreliable habit of bursting
open at the most unsuitable
times, but the children enjoy it,
pretending they are haunted. All
the same, I could not find that
suit, and determined to indulge
in an orgy of tidying as soon
as possible.
The whole trouble was, I had
too much to look after, not that
many of the things were wear-
able, even; I clung to them
thinking that if no good for me
they could be cut-up for th
children. The next day I worket
►hard sorting and dispensing wil
wearing-apparel. I was in
ruthless mood, tossing out sc
much I had little left to wea
but I felt wonderful at the tim
Except for this: I could not fin
that particular suit anywhere.
I cleaned-out the linen-cup
board next in my search, and wa
surprised to see how short o
linen I was when it was tidiec
I tipped out my piece-bag
and treasure-trunks ; worst of al
crouched for hours in the dar
cupboard under the stairs, bu
that outfit simply was not there
I almost spring-cleaned th
house, in the middle of winter
but it was no use.
I was flabbergasted. There wa
the evidence, or lack of it
before my eyes, but I could no
believe it; it was too absurc
Not Smithy, she would neve
do a thing like that; it wasn’
in character! In my quandary
I couldn’t make up my mind
what to do, so did nothing
deciding to see what happenec
when next she came to me. My
mind was becoming as full of the
scorpions-of-doubt as Macbeth’s
I concluded.
A few days after my discovery
I spent the evening with an old
friend who had organised severa
tables of bridge in aid of church
funds. It was a friendly game
with much talk and exchange of
news among the busy house-
wives. One such was amusing her
table with a story I could not
quite hear from my end of the
room. All I caught was exciting
snatches such as “My very own
blue evening-coat” . . . “There
we were, jammed in the same
tram” . . . “Bowed politely to
each other as best we could in
the crush” . . . “Of course not,
she is much too valuable for
me to dispense with her services.”
Could she possibly be talking
about —about Smithy! I knew
Smithy had been sewing for her
family almost as long as she had
for me. At supper-time I found
opportunity to ask her indirectly,
and it was Smithy, all right. The
dressmaker apparently would
“borrow” my friend’s clothes,
returning them on her next visit.
Perhaps I had not seen the end
of my suit, after all.
About to tell her of my dis-
covery, I thought better of it.
Old Smithy may have slipped by
the wayside, but her many
virtues were real. Perhaps, too.
I could not face losing my good
dressmaker. I decided to say
nothing until I could speak to
her myself, not wishing to make
things any worse for her.
'T'HE day for Smithy’s next
visit came and passed and
she didn’t arrive. I consulted my
diary, but had not made a mis-
take ; there it was in grubby
pencil. I never can find a pen
or sharp pencil now the children
are using them. I could not
speak to her, as her sister had
no telephone, and then I could
not have spoken to her because
of her infirmity. I therefore
o Continued on page 30)


No Fivers, By Request
Cunning Coves, Counterfeiters!
By DON JORDAN
OUR modem civilisation
might have saved its
police-chiefs and bank-
officers a lot of worries
if it had stuck to shell-money, for
who could counterfeit a peri-
winkle?
But we went in for coins and
paper-money, and —well, look
what’s been happening to us!
Asked about the dud fivers
floating around, the Super-
intendent of Detectives at Sydney
C. 1.8., Inspector J. Gordon,
explained in his broad Scots burr
some of the difficulties the police
are up against in catching the
counterfeiting fraternity.
“You can’t just send out a
squad of detectives looking for
counterfeit money,” he, said.
“You just have to wait for the
forgeries to turn-up.”
You might get a call from a
bank to say they had a bad note.
You would go out and interview
the person who had tried to pass
it. You had to be careful,
because, very likely, that person
might have accepted it innocently
from someone else.
Then you would start tracing
it back. Often you would come
to a dead-end at a shop where
no one could remember who had
paid-in that particular note out
of the thousands of others.
That’s the sort of thing that
has been going on with these dud
fivers—police trying to trace
back to their first known owner
getting on for 300 forged £5-
notes, hoping that somewhere a
common pattern might show
itself, that somewhere they might
get a lead.
Mr. Gordon hinted that the
newspapers were not exactly a
help in this. They had printed
photographs of the forgeries,
with arrow-points showing the
forger’s mistakes.
While these might show the
public how to tell a counterfeit
note, they were also a mine of
information for the forger. They
would teach him his errors; get
him that much nearer to the
perfect plate.
Luckily, no forger will ever
get all the way. There cannot be
a perfect counterfeit, because, on
Biblical authority, forgers are
denied perfection, along With
less-gifted humans. Also, they’re
denied access to the place where
they print the real McCoy.
No other equipment can turn
out the dinkum note. A forger
might get very close to it, but
he can never duplicate the exact
paper, the exact inks, or the
exact light-effects used in the
photo-engraving, and so there
are flaws in his work.
One flaw in the work of the
current fiver-forger, which he
remedied after newspaper pub-
licity, was that he gave a flatfish
face to Rear-Admiral Sir John
Franklin, who appears on the
right-hand side of the note.
Another flaw, well publicised,
but not yet corrected, when this
was written, was the sharp
change from white to grey along
the lettering “Commonwealth of
Australia” at the top of the note.
In genuine notes the change from
white to grey is subtle; the
forger’s have had a distinct white
edge along the top of the letters.
His paper, too, is poor and
will wear away quickly if you
rub it. And you will notice that
the ink might smear as you rub.
Still, bank-officers have grudg-
ingly admired his plate-making.
Sir Arthur Fadden has, too.
On May 1 he announced in the
House of Representatives that
the Commonwealth Bank was
offering £lOOO reward for the
counterfeiter cove. While he was
at it Sir Arthur killed the idea
that people who had unwittingly
accepted a dud fiver should be
reimbursed by the Treasury. He
said this would only make it
easier for the forger to dispose
of his works.
In the general flap, Melbourne
detectives were quoted as saying
he was the “most perfect forger
ever”; bank-officers said he was
“a skilled tradesman using
modern plant.”
Similar things were said about
three years ago, when Sydney
detectives were up against it,
trying to trace the brilliant art-
works of Mr. One-by-one.
This gentleman, Edward
Charles Windeyer, at present
doing seven-years in the Goul-
burn quod, was described in
court as a “genius.” And when
you add-up Mr. Windeyer’s
history to-date you must feel
what a wonderful future he’d
have if he’d just take up some
other line.
Not overburdened with wealth,
he decided, back in 1951, to do
something about it, and took
himself off to Angus and
Robertsons and then to the
Public Library. He was bent on
study He studied for six months
ITien he put what he had learned
into practice.
Late in September, 1951, the
first of his forged £ 10-notes was
passed-in at a Harold Park dog-
t 1C ,
By November that year 15 of
the notes had been passed in
? ,^^. ndVi ' ;,oria '. The - e T?
1,000,000 genuine notes ctrculat-
mg with the same serial-number
prefixes.
Police investigating soon found
a “pattern” in the passing of the
notes—an odd one for a forger.
These tenners were being passed
singly, at intervals of a week or
more, and at widely separated
P laces -
That smashed police hopes of
laying a trap. It made their task
terribly difficult It gave the
forger the title of One-by-one.
In March, 1953, he was still
going great guns. He had just
brought out a new series of
notes, even better than the first,
By May, that year, 160 of his
tenners had been accepted in
three States.
Some reports described “One-
by-one” as a “master craftsman.”
One said he was a New Aus-
tralian process-engineer with
skilled knowledge of plate-
making. Basis of the “New Aus-
tralian” theory was just that his
notes were so good. He couldn’t
be an Old Australian with that
measure of perfection! Other-
wise (so said the soothsayers)
the police would have run across
him before.
The police, as it happened,
had run across him before . . .
But not as a forger of tenners.
Away back in 1938 totalisator-
officials on Sydney race-tracks
noticed that they were paying-
out on more winning-tickets
than their machines had issued.
Like currency, tote-tickets are
extremely difficult to forge.
Unlike currency, they carry
different numerals and markings
for each race-day, and each
race.
“We Want more room in the steerage!"
Yet someone was certainly
forging them.
It was Edward Charles
Windeyer. He copped four-
years when the cops copped him.
Windeyer’s methods were, to
put them mildly, brilliant.
The only tools he used for his
forged tickets were a razor-
blade, old tickets, and some
gU m.
He collected discarded tote-
tickets. He trained his eye and
hand to cut out the numbers
from them without disturbing
their backs He actually shaved
out the numbers on a tiny wafer
of paper.
.„P e made himself up a
'library of these numbers and
other variable parts of tickets,
anc * be was ready.
He would take a genuine,
though non-paying, tote-ticket
f or a g i ven race , and with his
de f t touch shave out the wafer
carrying, say, the “horse-
nU mber” 5. Into the shallow
depression left in the genuine
ticket he would insert the appro-
priate horse-number from his
‘library” to make the ticket a
winner. He would stick it into
place with his gum, and collect
the proceeds.
And a tote-ticket, of course,
isn’t a great deal thicker than
the paper in this page.
Windeyer might have gone on
passing his tote-tickets for a long
time but for that damp day when
the mudlarks were coming home
and leaving the highweights
bogged near the barrier.
That day’s atmosphere was
very damp, enough to prevent
Windeyer’s gum drying by the
time . he handed his ticket
through the tote pay-out win-
dow.
The man behind the grille
scrutinised it, passed it, and then
spiked it on his bill-file, as is the
practice.
But the point where he spiked,
it was just where one of
Windeyer’s inserts was drying.
It came adrift.
The man behind the grille
nodded, and the detectives
pounced.
With the crack tenners of
1953, police were fearing that if
“One-by-one” did not get
greedy, but kept issuing one note
at a time, they might never track
him down.
Then Windeyer had some bad
luck again. This time it came in
the form of a workman repairing
a roadway in a little street in
Glebe.
workman, coun c l l
employee John Hicky, noticed
jt> resting on a ledge of a
ventilator-shaft in the wall of an
old building . j t was on i y by
chance he saw it
He pulled up the string and
found on the other end a bundle
wrapped in a sock
That sock ‘ held £Bsoo _ odd in
forged tenners . Hicky had un-
witdngly broken into “One-by-
one’s” private bank
Certain detectives with long
memories had been keeping an
on windeyer on the good
theory that a man who <ould
forge a tote-ticket might try his
hand at a tenner,
with the discovery of the
cac he, teams of detectives started
giving G lebe a thorough sifting,
p resen tl y they acted, and “One-
by-one” became Windeyer.
cou l d not believe their
ears when W indeyer told them
how he had £ d the notes
jj g knocked the “New Aus-
tralian process-engraver with
skilled knowledge of plate-
making” sky-high,
He told them how he had
learned everything he knew
about forging the tenners from
books freely available- in the
public library books on
engraving and printing.
Photo-engraving plant? Well,
po, he didn’t have any. He had
done it this way. He had taken
a genuine £lO-note and split it
into two halves with a razor-
blade, right along its lepgth. He
had placed one of these halves
in a photographic printing-frame
(cost about 2s. at any good
chemist), with a piece of photo-
graphic film behind a half of the
note. This he exposed to the
light, developed the film, and so
got himself a negative of one
side of a £lO-note.
He repeated the process with
the other side, and so had solved
the hardest .part of his plate-
making. Police are still wary of
letting out full details of his
complete method, it rocked them
so much.
This man whose work had
racked the best brains of C.1.8.s
in Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide had been able to cram
his entire plant in with his furni-
ture in his little attic in
Glebe . . .
A lesser worry to police than
Windeyer’s tenners or the Mel-
bourne man’s fivers is the spuri-
ous coinage that crops-up fairly
regularly. The worry is less
merely because the coins can do
less damage ; with values as they
are now, the work is hardly
worth the coiner’s while.
It is, however, a coin that
holds the dubious honor of being
generally regarded as Australia’s
best counterfeit money ever
issued. This was a fake ls.-piece
which hit Sydney in thousands
about 20 years ago.
Its only flaw, a tiny one, was
in the Emu’s foot on the rear-
side coat-of-arms.
It was made of good stuff, this
bob. Indeed it had more silver
in it than the genuine article.
More recently—in 1954 —a
Melbourne coiner gained brief
notoriety by being seized with
745 counterfeit sovereigns.
Described as excellent jobs—
police said that only an expert
could tell them from real
sovereigns—they had the head of
Edward VII on them and were
stamped 1908. Most of them
were a copper alloy, coated with
gold, but a few had the right
amount of gold in them.
This coiner, however, never
served time for it. He was
acquitted on the ground that he
had been charged under the
Crimes Act, in which there was
a loophole for him, for the
sovereign was no longer a
“current coin.”
The end-result was Senator
Spicer, as Attorney-General,
bringing a bill into the Senate to
amend the Crimes Act and
make the counterfeiting of
sovereigns an offence.
And then there is the Sydney
coiner, an unknown who
regularly turns out spurious
shillings and florins of variable
quality. He apparently works
overtime with the approach of
each Royal Easter Show, for the
coin-testing machines in the
banks usually then spit out more
of his work than usual.
He keeps up with the trends in'
new coins. He was issuing his
first Queen Elizabeth florins a
month or so after the real ones
hit the deck. At one stage he
even brought out a counterfeit
of the Canberra florin.
But there is madness in his
method.
Sometimes his florins have two
heads.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
I
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
Divorce Notice
IN THE, SUPREME COURT QF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HILDA MARCELLA LYNCH late of
16 Westmorland Street Glebe. —TAKE
NOTICE that LESLIE EDWARD LYNCH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3300
of 1955 on the-ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court .King Street, Svd-
ney by Bth August 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
W. lAN SHORT & CO., Solicitors, of 135
Burwood Road, Burwood. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
King’s Fair must be the most
expensive horse to have visited
Australia in recent years;
though he has won in the best
company at Randwick, in the
“big” handicaps he has proved
a real friend of the fielders, being
beaten in three successive major
events when the medium o::
colossal backing.
In the last Epsom the unluck
New Zealander finished seconc
(at 2 to 1) to Hans. In th
Doncaster a few weeks ago h
started equal-favorite at 3 to ]
and was downed by Slogan II
Last Saturday, starting favorite
at 9 to 4, with only one other
runner inside JO to 1, he ran
third to Knave in the Strad
broke.
It is only natural that Knave
should be brilliant. His sire, Faux
Tirage (imp.), won at his first
five starts, then finished third at
his only other outing prior to
being acquired for the stud in
New Zealand. He is by Big
Game from Commotion by
Mieuxce. Trick, dam of Knave,
was got by Defaulter, who made
a successful visit to Australia
about 16 years ago. Knave is
related to former brilliant
gallopers Murray Stream, Hall
Mark,, Magnificent and Trivalve.
Toni* Lowry, owner-breeder of
Knave, flew over from New
Zealand a few days before the
Stradbroke to see the colt win
the big event.
Three Sydney-trained three-
year-olds and two from Bris-
bane comprised Q.T.C. St. Leger
field, and the places went to the
visitors. The filly Evening Peal
was made a warm favorite, but
was easily beaten into third place
by Caranna and Landy, and sub-
sequently was taken out of the
£12,000 Brisbane Cup, for which
at one stage she had been
favorite. T. J. Smith, trainer of
previous winners Sea Sovereign
and Forest Beau, almost won a
third St. Leger with Landy,
whose jockey, A. Ward, tried to
steal it, but was caught in the
final stages, about 50yds. from
the finishing-line. At one stage
Landy was 15 lengths ahead of
rivals. Ted Hush, who trains
Caranna, also prepared Electro
for his Brisbane St. Leger win.
Atellor, unlucky in a Canter-
bury Park two-year-old sprint a
couple of weeks ago, was taken
to Brisbane to win his first race,
the Second Wattlebrae Handicap.
He will probably win in much
better company when he returns
to Sydney. Raced by A. M. Wat-
son and “H. Tanks” and trained
by E. J. Fellows, the colt was
bred at Kooba stud and is by
the French sire Tsaoko from
Ajadyne (a sister to speedy
Dynamite, winner of 11 races)
by Ajax from Dyne by Marconi-
gram (imp.). Family-lines in-
clude Civic Pride and Pride of
Egypt.
Queensland Turf Club’s final
day— next Saturday—will give
horses beaten in the Stradbroke
and Brisbane Cup a chance to
earn stakemoney. Last winter
King’s Fair won the £lOOO
Lightning Handicap and Shaded
the £2500 Moreton Handicap.
Biggest surprise on a metro-
politan Melbourne course for
years was the clear-cut win by
Showdown in the Buckingham
Handicap at Flemington last
Saturday. The books offered
66 to 1 ; the tote paid 129 to
1. The odds were justified ; at
his previous run he had been
fifth in a provincial improvers’
race, but he went right on with
the job, and Sarno and Tarnpir,
who followed him home, Were
getting no closer to him.
Trainer: Max Bradfield, son of
that noted trainer.
Kingsmore was the most im-
pressive of the four jumping
winners at the two-day V.R.C.
meeting. He is a fair sort of flat
performer, and in the York
Hurdle he went farther and
farther away after jumping the
last hurdle, and won by 10
lengths from Chief Bout and
Pert Boy. Last year Kingsmore
made a similar auspicious begin-
ning as a jumper, but he went
sour. D. J. Turner, who trains
him, is an old, sure hand with
jumpers and knows precisely
how to turn out a G.N. winner.
Two-year-old colt Sans Rival
won the Flemington Rothsay
Handicap following a success at
Geelong about a week earlier.
Hutchinson rode him lib. over
his 7.9. Later in the afternoon
Hutchinson won the Second Pro-
vincial Handicap on odds-on
favorite Golden Snows. Sans
Rival is a son of Sans Tache
(imp.) and Radial by Gilt Edge
from Radiant Lady by Woorak
from Vinalia (imp.) by Traquair
(imp.), so it’s no wonder he’s
speedy.
Swynphilos, V.R.C. New-
market winner last year, returned
to the winning-list after an
absence of 15 months when he
beat a smart field in the V.R.C.
Royal Handicap, and the five-
year-old Pamphilos gelding may
now be set for the Doomben Ten
Thousand. Former Sydney gal-
loper First Century continues
to show good form in Mel-
bourne ; he won the V.R.C.
Sandringham Handicap (1|
mile). He has proved a bargain-
buy for his new owners.
Norman Brown, owner of
Randwick Novice winner Nonda
Lad, had other reasons besides
the gelding’s previous moderate
form for not being optimistic:
though a keen Turf enthusiast,
he had not had a Randwick win
for about 30 years. The gelding
is named after the owner’s
Nonda Downs property in
Queensland. Brown has, how-
ever, won races away from
Randwick (with Hunter’s Game
and Dipso, the latter quite re-
cently at Rosehill), and Nonda
Lad also has won away from
Randwick. He led most of the
way on Saturday.
Four successive wins, three at
Wagga and the other at Albury,
put a boom on two-year-old colt
Carlap, and it also put him right
up in the weights for Sydney
races. However, it didn’t take
him long to win in the city area.
At his first attempt he had
finished third to Compilla at
Randwick; at his second outing
he won the A.J.C. Juvenile
Handicap by a narrow margin.
He carried 8.9, and was ably
handled by W. Cook. His owner,
W. C. French, believes he has a
crack youngster, but Carlap will
need to score more impressively
and in much superior company
to prove he’s as good as his
owner believes. Carlap gave his
opponents a start and a beating,
but he also gave Cook a hard
ride, and he is bound to be kept
up in the weights. He’s by
Ingenious (imp.), a son of
Hyperion. The colt’s dam,
French Joy,i was bred by T. T.
Cook, and was got by lolaus
from Brunswick Joy by Grand
Joy (imp.).
Cragsley wasn’t extended to
win the June Stakes at Randwick.
He started at brief odds, and was
ridden by F. Hickey, who had
won the previous event on out-
sider Nonda Lad. The perform-
ance was expected by Cragsley’s
trainer, Vic. Thompson, who
earlier had nominated the speedy
“Kick it, mug — don't HATCH it!”
gelding for the Doomben Ten
Thousand (July 7).
Owner J. A. Shaw is evidently
keen on the progeny of The
Duchess, sister to Aristocrat.
Shaw races Queen Delville, who
opened her winning account in
Maiden two-year-old company
at Warwick Farm, and he paid
1300gns. for her yearling sister at
this year’s Randwick auction.
Both fillies are daughters of
Delville Wood (imp.). The
Duchess is a Le Grand Due
(imp.) mare from Kirrang by
Magpie (imp.).
+ +
The three-yearly Australian
Rules carnival, last held in
Adelaide in 1953, will begin at
Subiaco (Perth) on June 14. The
V.F.L. team is led by experienced
Essendon rover Bill Hutchison,
who also led the 1953 carnival
side, with’'Fitzroy’s back-pocket
defender Bill Stephen as deputy.
It’s favored to win, and there’d
be something wrong some-
where if it didn’t.
Five club skippers have been
picked. Besides Hutchison and
Stephen, there are Collingwood’s
Neil Mann, who after an un-
certain start has run into top
form lately, Richmond’s Des
Rowe, who captained Victoria
last year, and St. Kilda’s Keith
Drinan. As well, Bill Gunn was
South skipper last year, and has
acted once or twice this year.
Though he does not lead
Melbourne, veteran Denis
Cordner was tipped in some
quarters to be V.F.L. carnival
skipper, but he missed out alto-
gether, though he’s been playing
as well as ever. Cordner is the
only one still playing of the four
brothers who’ve turned out with
the Demons ; one of them, Don,
was 1946 Brownlow Medallist.
(Two Medallists, Roy Wright
and last year’s winner, Fred
Goldsmith, are in the team.
“Maros”: Two W.A. State
cricketers are in W.A.’s carnival
side. They are centre-half-
forward and left-hand fast-
bowler Alan Preen, and 6ft. 3in.
ruckman and fastish bowler
„ Keith Slater. At the start of the
football season Slater was reluc-
tant to play, and was talking of
sticking to cricket; but, deciding
after all to play footy, he’s since
been a real strength in the rucks
for Swan Districts.
“Atala”: North Adelaide
full-forward Bill McKenzie has
been very accurate in some of
his games this year. In the
second series, against Glenelg,"
he kicked 6.1, and against Sturt
in the sixth, with a wet and
greasy ball, he got B.l—his point
being a hurried snap from an
acute angle. But, remarkably,
Sturt forwards were also straight
in the same heavy conditions,
their first six scoring kicks being
all majors.
\
“R.A.C.”: Likely to make his
presence felt at the carnival is
young John Todd, of South
Fremantle, who started in league-
football last year at 16. In his
first year he was selected to play
for his State, and won the Sand-
over Medal, the youngest player
in the West to achieve these
honors.
“C.A.A.”: The character of
Victorian League football-clubs
must have changed since the
second war, for they now rejoice
in appellations more suited to
this supersonic age. Mel-
bourne’s Fuchsia has become a
Demon, Hawthorn’s Maybloom
has been transformed into a
Hawk, Footscray’s Tricolor and
Fitzroy’s Maroon still remain
but have found themselves a
Bulldog and a Gorilla respec-
tively, while down at the Pivot
Geelong has become a tribe of
Cats. These have joined the
traditional Richmond Tiger,
Collingwood Magpie, South
Melbourne Swan, the North Mel-
bourne Kangaroo and the
Essendon Bomber to make-up
quite a menagerie.
* * *
In the second Rugby Union
Test, in Brisbane on Saturday,
South Africa defeated Australia,
and thus won the series (two
Tests only). In scores it was a
replica of the first Test in Syd-
ney the week before. Both
games it was 9-0, two tries and
goal (a field-goal this time as
against a penalty-goal); and it
was 3-0 at half-time both times.
/But the second game was q much
duller and much less enterprising'
affair.
* * *
At Sydney Cricket Ground on
Saturday New Zealand Rugby
Leaguesters beat N.S.W. 26-17.
It was open, attractive football
all through, with one or two
spectacular moments; but N.Z.
rarely appeared likely to lose.
First Test, at the S.C.G. o
Saturday.
* * *
The sixth triennial inte
national women’s hockey-tourna
ment was won in Sydney b
South Africa (unbeaten), wii
England second, N.Z. third anc
Australia fourth. England (3
goals for and 3 against) had
better average than S’Africa
(12 and 3).
The two games played at Syc
ney Sports Ground last Saturda
the last day of the tourney, wer
both good to watch, for differen
reasons. In the first England
forwards played dashingly for
runaway 9-0 win over inexper
enced U.S.A., which seemingly
not as well up on hockey as o
most other matters; while i
the second South Africa jus
shaded Australia 1-0. The loca
lasses gave the Springbok girl
their toughest game.
In the Australian team of 1
chosen for the tourney, all State
but S.A. were represented. Lee
by Morna Pearce, of W.A., the
third of three sisters to captain
Australia, it had six other Wes
tralian reps., W.A. being one o
the game’s main strongholds in
these parts: the Australian
men’s team is at present also
captained by a Westralian, lan
Dick.
Nine countries sent teams to
the tourney—England, Scotland,
Ireland, U.S.A., South Africa,
N.Z., Canada, India and Hol-
land, each team playing six
games over 10 days. The Aus-
tralian association did a fine job
of organising all round, with
conferences on rules and control,
besides the matches. Apropos,
the present and secretary of
the International Federation, the
controlling body, are both
Australian women.
* * *
John Beharrell, 18, of Birming-
ham, won the British amateur
golf title, youngest winner in
the 71-years’ history of the event.
He convincingly defeated Les
Taylor, of Glasgow, 5 and 4, and
is regarded as the greatest find
for many a year.
* * *
Trent Bridge, at Nottingham,
where the first of the 1956 Tests
begins tomorrow (June 7), was
opened in 1838 by the great
under-arm bowler William
Clarke, also proprietor of the
Trent Bridge Inn, who at the
age of 57 took a wicket (the last
of thousands) with the last ball
he ever bowled. This is the 10th
Australia-England Test there,
the first being in 1899, “W.G.’s”
last Test. Among other notable
performances there have been, in
1938, Hutton (100) and Comp-
ton (102) each making a century
in their first Test, the same
match in which McCabe made
his famous 232 —which Brad-
man called the greatest innings
he’d ever seen. In 1934 Aus-
tralian Arthur Chipperfield, in
his first Test, got the unique
distinction of making 99. On
the bowling side, there was Alec
Bedser’s 7-55 and 7-44 in 1953.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: With so many
leading Australian racqueteers
converging on Wimbledon
(there is the record number of
35, including seven women,
this year) it is interesting to hear
that the Tudor tennis-court —the
oldest in England—has ~ again
been opened daily to the public.
The court was completed in 1530
for Henry VIII, who, despite
his wives, found time to play
there. It was restored and im-
proved by Charles 11.


Causes of Confusion
Fun Among the Accents
By GAVIN CASEY
WITH so much “New Aus-
tralian” being talked
the length and breadth
of the country, accents
have become more important
than they ever were before to
non-travelling old Australians.
And these will find that almost
any accent, provided the speaker
has got as far as a reasonable
vocabulary, is not particularly
hard to understand, except per-
haps on an occasional word that
trips-up talker and listener alike
and eventually causes laughter.
The accents that cause the real
confusion are not the ones of
people mastering a new language,
but those of people who talk
your own in some distant part
of the world where it has been
given certain twists. Like some
of the obscure, rural counties
of England.
A friend of mine who, after
most of a lifetime in this country
and the development of our
authentic twang, visited his aged
parents and many relations in
one such place, was sad when he
came back.
“It was all right,” he said
gloomily. “Only trouble neither
party could understand what the
other was talking about*”
Nobody, of course, has any
trouble understanding the pun-
gent platform- and radio-com-
ments of Professor Walter
Murdoch, who a while back had
a jaunt around Britain at the age
of 80. But for years he has
complained that in Australia he
is accused of having a Scottish
accent, and in Scotland they are
slightly shooked by his Aus-
tralian twang.
It is particularly tough in the
United States, because it’s rather
one-sided there. The talkies
have long educated us into
understanding American-English,
but few of the Yanks, even after
World War 11, have been
exposed to Australian-English.
The ones with superior educa-
tion, or those who have had
much contact with the English-
English, the Scottish-English and
the Irish-English, have no
trouble. But our talk leaves
many of the rest for dead.
During the first year I spent
in the U.S. I never asked for a
whisky-and-soda without making
the barman reel back in horror.
“You can’t have cider in
whisky, sir,” he’d always say.
Yet to my own ear, or that of
any other Australian, my pro-
nunciation of the word is quite
clear. And to us most Ameri-
cans seem to say “sawder” when
they want water with bubbles in
it.
Strangely, though the eastern
Canadian accent varies only a
little from the accent of the
north-eastern United States, and
mine is quite unlike either, I
was often asked if I came from
Canada. This puzzled me for a
while, and eventually I decided it
was simply because the thought-
less American immediately con-
cluded that anybody who spoke
English as fluently as I did, in
a manner different from his own
but not like a British movie-
star’s, was probably from over
the border.
In the newspaper- and radio-
fields in which I did most of my
work and had most of my
friends there was, of course, no
accent-trouble. In fact, there
was no trouble of any sort, but
there was a great deal of good-
humored bickering about such
matters as Australian Rules
versus the gridiron game, what
happened to Phar Lap, and the
virtues of cocktails, almost all
of which I loathe.
One point sometimes at issue
was whether or not deep-frozen
food lost anything at all in
flavor or in any other way.
Naturally, the Americans to a
man swore that, if deep-freezing
did anything other than preserve,
it improved the tucker.
I had a famous victory when
David Fleay, of Victoria, was at
sea with two platypuses he was
bringing to a lavish “platy-
pusary” at the Bronx Zoo in
New York. For a start the
papers were full of the elaborate
arrangements for the transport,
and later the housing, of the
delicate little fellows. A major
item dealt with the stores of
earthworms and yabbies that
had been taken aboard to feed
them, with a deep-frozen supply
for when the fresh ones ran out.
Then, a few weeks later, there
were headlines. The platypuses
were in danger of perishing. The
ship carrying them had been
diverted to a South American
port. Great masses of fresh
earthworms had been dug up
from under the lions’ cages at
the Bronx Zoo, and a special
plane had been chartered to
carry them south and meet the
boat.
Sure enough, the platypuses
had turned-down the deep-
frozen grub. Were they, I asked
the Yanks gleefully, simply old-
fashioned and prejudiced like
myself.
Another time, a visitor from
Australia was a young Sydney
athlete who, in a bar where many
press- and radio-men drank,
began to enthuse about the pro-
gress of baseball in Australia: it
was a wonderful game, and going
ahead by leaps and bounds, as it
deserved to do.
The Americans started to turn
triumphant smiles my way. Then
one of their own put his foot
in it.
“When do you play baseball
in Australia,” he asked, “summer
or winter?”
A look of horror, as at the
sight of an altar defiled, spread
over the Australian’s , face.
“Winter, of course,” he said.
“We only play it to keep fit for
when the cricket comes around.”
But at least that place, with its
people, was a haven of relief
from accent-trouble. And on the
highways and byways most
Yanks understood immediately,
and some were rather charmed
by our “quaint” way of saying
things. But to some it was a
total loss. The Harry Watt film
“The Overlanders” might as well
have been exhibited in the U.S.
in a silent version, as far as they
were concerned. They caught
about one word in five of what
Chips Rafferty and the others
were saying. Anyway, they
enjoyed the spectacle.
Actually, accent is only one
factor contributing to their con-
fusion. As well as pronouncing
a lot, of words differently, we
speak fast, because of our fami-
liarity with our native tongue.
Apart from slang, we have a
“near-slang” of unfamiliar
phrases and turns of phrase. And
the whole rhythm of our speech,
the words in sentences on which
we place the emphasis, is strange
to them.
My American wife, though
she has now lost much of her
accent, says if there is something
wrong with her, “I don’t feel
well.” I’d say, “I don’t feel
well.”
It adds-up to great possibilities
of non-comprehension for the
Yanks if there are too many
Australians around the place;
but we have been the sufferers,
too, when in occasional movies
set here, or with one or two Aus-
tralian characters, the players
have talked a determined and
brutal Bow Bells Cockney under
the impression it is our language.
When it made the film “Sister
Kenny” Hollywood did the sen-
sible thing. It left accents
severely alone, except for the
character who was supposed to
be a Scot; and the fact that the
actors talk in normal, properly-
trained American voices de-
tracts nothing from the story.
Similarly, in the more recent
“Interrupted Melody,” on the life
of polio - stricken Australian
singer Marjorie Lawrence, they
paid intelligent attention to cast-
ing and the turns of phrase, and
left it at that.
Having fun with accents and
making fun of them are two
different things, the latter very
cruel and uncivilised. But good-
natured laughter, of the sort you
enjoy when your two-year-old
pronounces “milk” for the first
time and makes it “mook,” is
good—only with adults you
have to be more careful.
One colleague of mine in the
States, who was much too wise
and well-balanced to get annoyed
about it, was driven to temporary
despair soon after his arrival
by an incident at a cocktail-
party.
He found himself drinking
with an aged, and no doubt
learned, German professor who
had not been in the country
long.
“Unt vot is der langvage een
Osstrellia, Mizder Glarke?” the
old gentleman asked.
“English,” answered the Aus-
tralian, perhaps tersely.
Then the professor looked so
HOME BREW!
doubtful, and so unhappy about
it all, that my friend relented and
tried to explain.
“The country was settled by
the British. Captain Cook.
Matthew Flinders. All those,
remember? It’s naturally been
the language, ever since the first
whites.”
“Ach! Yezz!” agreed the pro-
fessor. “I schzee. You schpeake
der Eenglish, but vit der very
’eavy aggzent!”
Yet no American ever. had
the slightest trouble in under-
standing that German. His
accent was atrocious, but his
vocabulary was good. And the
use of the unfamiliar language
slowed-down his speech. It not
only slowed it down, it divorced
it from any colloquial turns of
phrase, and from any particular
rhythm and placing of emphasis.
The words, grotesque though
they were, came out flat and
separate, quite distinct from each
other, and not in the tangled
burst of slurred and linked noises
used by all of us in our native
version of our native language.
Many of us have already
found it to be so, too, with the
New Australians. For these wel-
come-strangers in our midst
improvement of accent is impor-
tant. But the first, vital thing
with them is to acquire a
vocabulary. Have a synon-
omous word for the one you
can’t get your tongue around
comfortably. Don’t try to go
fast, or to place emphasis except
in an elementary way. If you
make the latter error too soon
in the piece, you’ll sound like a
kookaburra gone mad, because
it’s even harder to understand
English in the rhythm of German
or Polish than it is in that of
some other part of the English-
speaking world.
For old Australians, the
advice is to keep an eye on the
difference between having fun
with accents and making fun of
them. In the one case you make
new mates; in the other you
hurt and confuse people*. You
might hurt them in a humili-
ating way you wouldn’t care
for yourself if you happened to
be in a hurry and short of words
in some small but, urgent crisis
in Naples or Berlin.
To give it a personal point,
just one or two wooden-headed
Americans among the thousands
of courteous and hospitable ones
I met thought my accent the
funniest thing that ever hap-
pened. The occasions with them
were the closest I came to being
arrested for assault and battery
under whatever name they call
it in the U.S.
“Simon”: I am not much in
hotels these days, so cannot say
whether putting out boots to be
polished in the early morning is
as universal as formerly. I once
nearly lost a good pair in one
of our capitals. My room was
the last along the corridor, and
the Boots continually missed my
footcases. Much nearer the stairs
I used to see a pair of gleaming
shoes covered in brass-tacks and
sequins, owned, as it turned out,
by a ballet-dancer. I placed my
boots beside hers for con-
spicuousness. Presently the
dancer came out and said, “Who
put their draft-boots with my
shoes? What would my hus-
band say if he came in? Who-
ever owns ’em better come and
get ’em, because I’m throwing
’em into the street.” I was pre-
pared to lose the boots rather
than face her, but she com-
promised by throwing them
down the stairs, where I picked
them up when the coast was
clear.


IV3OI HO IVNOUVN 'IVHOIIVNH3INI
ymk
THt
COMM®® 5,
of *l®*?
m
Vi/f/'/i
W/ff/A
new
W/0.
oTTA
YOJtK
CP**
f ///•/•*.* u/lj‘ J 7}m
wfJfflMm/
'Tffif/f
f/7/A
!/l*
ft©
IMS
Mplr
Hong
KOMq
i'%
Wmmmm
pip
"1 / m mil
BY THIS BANK'S
EFFICIENT, HELPFUL SERVICE
Service to its customers and the wisdom of long experience
are traditions with this Bank, which is owned and staffed by
Australians. The Bank's many service departments are
available to offer advice and help to those who seek it.
At Head Office, or at our branch nearest to you, our
officers will be glad to discuss how the Bank, with its modern,
facilities and services, can help you.
THE fIMMERCIAI
-
OF . SYDNEY LIMITED
COMPANY
•834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
What women
don't know about
being female
"As a doctor,” says Marion
Hilliard, “I don’t believe there
is such a thing as a platonic
relationship between a man and
woman who are alone together
a good deal.”
In June Reader's Digest, read
this provocative article by the
noted Chief of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Women's College
Hospital, Toronto.
Famed author Clarence Hall's
“The art of understanding other
people” is another absorbing
June issue feature. 31 articles
of lasting interest, including the
best from leading magazines
and current books, only two
shillings at all newsagents and
bookstalls. Get your copy today.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help"
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SINGAPORE AND EMPIRE
'THE breakdown of the talks
between David Marshall,
Chief Minister of Singapore,
and British Colonial Secretary
Lennox-Boyd over the granting
of independence to Singapore
brought a curiously mixed
reaction in the British press.
To some papers the failure of
the talks was a “grievous disap-
pointment”; to others “Mr.
Lennox-Boyd is entitled to the
highest praise for standing firm
against the further liquidation
of the Empire” (London “Daily
Express”).
London “Times” considered
that “the breakdown could be
tragic unless the reasons are
fully understood”:
“Britain has an inescapable
commitment to Singapore. It
must not fall under Communist
domination. It must remain in
the democratic world. To ensure
this it is not merely necessary
for Britain to retain responsi-
bility for foreign affairs and
external defence, as Mr.
Marshall broadly conceded. It
is necessary to retain some
emergency-powers to fulfil these
responsibilities. To suspend a
Constitution is to . outrage
nationalist feeling; to retain
powers which would only be
used in emergency is to help
genuine nationalism with a safe-
guard—not, as Mr. Marshall
claims, to play into the hands of
Communism.”
In similar vein, London “Daily
Telegraph” found the failure of
the talks “neither unexpected nor
wholly tragic”:
“The offer to Mr. Marshall
was both generous and imagina-
tive, as befits the genuine sym-
' S
pathy of successive British Gov-
ernments to colonial aspirations.
“But Mr. Marshall has tried
to trade on this feeling too far.
No promise was made to him
when he was in London for pre-
liminary talks last December,
but by his pronouncements in
the interim he contrived to give
the impression that the sole
purpose of the full conference
was to fix the details of a hand-
over of power already decided
in principle.
“The British Government’s
indication that accession to any
demand for self-government is
not automatic may prove a
salutary example in other cases.”
One commentator (in London
“Evening News”) who was “not
in the least upset by Mr.
Marshall’s anger and disappoint-
ment” was John Connell, who
“mourned” not over the break-
down of the Singapore talks
“but over all the years of talks
and negotiations which did not
break-down, from the time of
the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921
onwards”:
“The [British] Empire is in a
process of voluntary and semi-
voluntary liquidation, un-
paralleled in civilised history.
Other Empires have collapsed
under the pressure of outside
forces, which have coincided with
a loss of nerve at their centre.
The British Empire has broken-
up, and continues to break-up,
because too often we —and our
elected leaders —have preferred
the soft option, the easy way out,
the appeasement of our open
enemies at the expense of our
friends.
“That is why, having quitted
the Indian sub-continent and
Burma, having bqen bundled out
of Palestine, Egypt and the
Sudan, we are now making a
dogged heart-sickening ‘last-
ditch’ stand in Cyprus, the island
which—we are now assured —is
an absolutely vital base for the
defence of the free world.
“Now in Singapore—as in
Cyprus—we face the pay-off, the
penalty for our years of retreat.
Here in this enormous city and
citadel which British enterprise,
skill and ability raised out of
jungle and slime, we are told
that we have no rights and no
responsibilities. Out, says Mr.
London “Daily Mail”
CANUTE, 1956
Marshall (in effect), and take
your fortress with you.
“We have lost all we had in
the Middle East, and Colonel
Nasser, squats athwart the Suez
Canal making malevolent faces
at ourselves and the Israelis.
“Lord Lloyd is met with riots
and abuse in Aden—the Aden
which British enterprise, skill
and ability raised out of rock
and waterless desert.
“In Ceylon a Nationalist-
Socialist Prime Minister, who
was a contemporary of Sir
Anthony Eden at Christ Church,
Oxford, tells us that our reten-
tion of bases in the island is an
outworn piece of colonialism
which he is not prepared to
stomach.
“Mr. Marshall believed that
he had but to be stubborn and
the British would be out of
Singapore. For the time being
he has been proved wrong, and
he goes home an angry and a
disappointed man, uttering
threats of resignation. I would
like to have seen all his pre-
decessors at this game equally
angry and disappointed: Mr.
Nehru, ‘General’ Aurg San,
General Neguib and Colonel
Nasser.
“The dissolution of the British
Imperial system—which we have
all been bidden to regard as a
wonderful achievement of states-
manship is an unmitigated
disaster for the human race
which, in time to come, will be
studied with the same melan-
choly interest and curiosity as
the fall of the Roman Empire is
regarded.”
In a further lament for lost
Empire, Malcolm Muggeridge,
editor of “Punch,” comments in
London “News Chronicle” that
“we [Britain], like Don Quixote,
live on old dreams, and there-
fore, like him, meet with ever
new hazards and disasters”:
“We discuss the future of
Europe, and do not know how
to deal with the island of
Cyprus. We are insistent about
bases abroad when we have, or
soon will have, nothing to defend
outside our own shores ; engage
in high-level talks with low-level
resources; appoint a Chief of
the Imperial General Staff for a
dissolving Empire, and discourse
most learnedly about lines-of-
communication, overlooking the
fact that, from our point of
view, they go from nowhere to
nowhere.
“Sir Winston Churchill once
said that he had not become
Prime Minister to preside over
the dissolution of the British
Empire. The terrible and ironic
logic of history required that he
and his successors should do that
very thing.
“Yet there are advantages.
Not being a Great Power carries
with it the considerable
advantage that requests for
economic and military assistance
can be referred to Washington or
Moscow.
“Most important of all, we
can give our undivided attention
to the most urgent and moment-
ous question which confronts us
—which is this. Given that,
within the next decade at most,
we shall lose all our remaining
overseas assets (including oil in
the Middle East and rubber and
tin in Malaya), which, in the
last resort, depend on the
exercise or availability of armed
force, can we, or can we not,
provide a decent life for the
population of this island
[Britain]?
“Can we, in other words, by
hard work, technical skills, com-
mercial enterprise and ingenuity,
make up for what we have lost
by ceasing to be a Great Power?
I think we can, but only if we
give the problem our undivided
attention, without reference to
American aid or Russian wiles
and bullying ; only if we devote
to it all our resources of man-
power, intelligence and pro-
ductive capacity.
“Sir Anthony Eden said the
other day that, if we were not a
Great Power, we were nothing.
This seemed to me rubbish.
Holland was once a Great
Power, but as far as I know
some millions of Dutchmen con-
tinue to live there in fair heart
and ease.
“So was Spain, so was Portu-
gal, but these countries have not
become uninhabited deserts.
And we, as a matter of fact,
have one great asset which they
lacked—namely, huge, hospit-
able, and still not nearly fully
developed, areas of the world
where our language is spoken,
our religion is practised, and our
law and institutions have been
established.”
Nato’s Problems
Outlining some of the
problems stacked-up for General
Lauris Norstad when he succeeds
General Gruenther as com-
mander of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation forces in
Europe, “U.S. News and World
Report” comments that the
Nato alliance has “fallen upon
trying times” since General
Eisenhower, the first com-
mander, got it off to a substantial
start.
“Since then,” the paper com-
ments, “Nato’s record has been
one of goals not reached, of
timetables constantly revised.
Defence-concepts have shifted,
with the emphasis switched from
ground-forces to the air. Many
Europeans have been lulled into
complacency by talk of peace
from Moscow. With all this
has come an accumulation of
discontents and foot-dragging
among Nato’s member-nations.
“The bulwark of European
defence still must be Germany
and France. Yet, for the present,
General Norstad can lean upon
neither. The defence-forces of
these two countries exist, for the
most part, only theoretically.
“Germany has barely begun
to rearm after many delays due
largely to French objections.
Three to four years must elapse
before there will be a West Ger-
man Army in being. There are
many obstacles along the way.
German ‘neutralist’ politicians,
for instance, are seizing upon


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” ha 3 seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(, England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
KllP mom SAFE!
-ufiihy
SANDERS
**bshs
Correspondence, invoices/'
statements, etc., filed in the
“Sanders “ can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect boolc of reference aj
the end of each month - or
any other period.
Prices sod fuj**
ther lnforraatioa
up at) Application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
ViurtffOtng AgcfUt—
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE.
fEE.ru
Norman Bros, PiJ. Ltd.
Vardan Price Ltd.
Docket Book Co,
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY REGINALD OAKLEY late of
E. K. Avenue Charlestown and PATTI
JUNE EDWARDS late of 11.4 Kerr Street
Mayfield West.—TAKE NOTICE that
MADGE JOYCE OAKLEY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 481 of 1950 on the
ground of your adultery If you PATTI
JUNE EDWARDS wish to intervene you
may apply to the Court for leave to do
so and service will be deemed to be com-
plete by the 29th day of June 1956 If
you ROY REGINALD OAKLEY wish to
defend you may enter an appearance by
the 27th day of July 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
A. ALISTER .10HNS0N & MCDONALD,
Solicitors, of 17 Holton Street, Newcastle,
or JOHN CORCORAN & CO., Solicitors,
of 2 York Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Futth in the
Future
a
Trade is one of the oldest pursuits of Man.
It flourished in the bazaars and market-places
of early civilisations. It was spread in argosies
across the sea, centuries before the advent of steam.
When the ultimate in atom-powered motion is
reached the aim of nations will still be to trade
with one another.
And it will be on an ever increasing scale. A
United Nations survey shows the world’s population
rising at the rate of 37 million a year. At June,
1954, it was 2652 million.
So every day more than 100,000 lives are being
added to the human stream on this earth; 100,000
extra mouths to feed, bodies to clothe, children to
care for, people to supply. Every ten days an
additional million!
By far the greatest increase is in Asia, where,
for every one person now in Australia, there are
65 homeland Chinese, 42 Indians, 10 Japanese,
nine Pakistanis, nine Indonesians.
These are people whose friendship we seek.
They are people in whom the trade instinct is
strong. And in building Australia’s future I believe
we should be setting ourselves to become good
TRADERS.
We have markets in Europe and elsewhere,
and they should be fostered. We have good
markets here at home. But with the world trends
in population it seems to me that Australia has a
particular role to fill in, in trade with the East.
Costs enter into it, of course. If we are to
succeed as traders we’ve to produce what the world
needs, and at a price which the world, including
ourselves, can afford to pay. That is all bound up
in the securing of markets.
To be able to sell our produce fairly and well
in competitive fields; to build a reputation for
keenness and honesty in trade: this is as large a part
of Australia’s future as the gathering of our
harvests.
the fact that General Norstad is
an airman, that the accent now
is on air-power, not giound-
forces, to argue that building a
German Army is unnecessary.
These politicians find an audi-
ence.
“The French, plagued with
troubles in North Africa, have
sent some 400,000 of their best
troops to Morocco, Algeria and
Tunisia.
“As Deputy Supreme Allied
Commander for Air, General
Norstad has watched this happen
from Nato headquarters, where
there has been a frustrating feel-
ing that nothing could be done
about it.
“France still has upward of
500,000 men in Germany and
France, mostly France. These,
however, are not organised in
combat-ready divisions. Reserve-
divisions, theoretically number-
ing nine, are in various stages of
training. The French also have
been stationing native troops
from Morocco and Algeria in
Germany, which has not made
the Germans any happier.
“Allied headquarters also con-
siders the instability of French
Governments a continuing
menace. What is feared is the
eventual formation of a united-
front coalition of Leftist parties
and the Communists, with a
broad reduction of the defence-
budget as a result.
“Great Britain has stuck to its
Nato commitments thus far, and
has some 150,000 men organised
into four fighting-divisions in
Western Europe.
“Other nations —the Turks,
the Italians, the Greeks —have
substantial forces in Europe,
and, in addition, there are the
armies of smaller countries, such
as Belgium, the Netherlands, and
Norway.
“But General Norstad’s
principal reliance must be on the
300,000 American troops in Ger-
many. The U.S. forces are
organised into five ready
divisions., These, along with
the four British divisions, make
up General Norstad’s main
combat-strength. One of the
London “Daily Express”
“CAN’T THINK WHAT’S COME OVER THE YOUNG
GENERATION THESE DAYS, WINSTON "
American divisions recently was
pronounced the best-equipped
and best-trained fighting-force
on earth. The other divisions
are not far behind.
“In the air, Nato has a tactical
air-force of 6000 to 7000 planes,
mostly jets, but some of rather
old types. Of these, about 1100
planes are American. The Nato
air-force could be supplemented
by the 2000 planes of the British
Fighter Command. But these
fighter-planes are under British
control and are not part of
General Norstad’s future com-
mand.
“All in all, General Norstad is
known to feel that, on the
ground or in the air, he lacks
sufficient strength to defend
Europe for very long east of the
Rhine. He and Nato remain
dependent upon the deterrent
effect of the ever-ready U.S.
Strategic Air Command and its
hydrogen-bombs.”
Disarmament and
Peace
F. A. Voigt, former editor of
“Nineteenth Century and After,”
writing in London “Daily Tele-
graph” on. “the fallacy that dis-
armament (by which we mean
the reduction and limitation of
armaments) is conducive to
peace”:
“The armed forces of every
Power are an organic whole
which is always changing in
response to changing circum-
stance (the invention of new
weapons, the emergence of new
alliances, and so on). Every
Power has to consider not only
the actual armaments but the
potential strength *of other
Powers.
“If Ruritania is a self-sufficient
country, with large natural
resources that can be turned to
warlike use, and with a large
population, it will be better able
to gain rapid superiority in the
event of war than, say, Utopia,
which is a vulnerable island with
smaller natural resources,
smaller population, and de-
pendent on supplies from across
the sea.
“Peace is maintained by the
balance of power, which is sub-
ject to constant adjustments. To
keep armaments at fixed levels
in accordance with an agreed
ratio is inimical to the balance
of power and, therefore, to
peace.
“It is assumed that any agree-
ment on fixed ratios must pre-
scribe a system of control. Such
a system would, in practice, im-
pose a prying, spying vigilance
which, so far from allaying,
would constantly exacerbate
distrust, the more so as it would
have to embrace not only exist-
ing armaments but the potential
of each country and, therefore,
atomic energy in all its forms.
“The supervision of atomic-
energy under an agreed system
may be possible, but its control
is not possible, as Marshal Bul-
ganin himself stated clearly at
the conference of the European
Satellite States in Warsaw in
May last year. He said, inter
alia, that ‘such a control’ (of
atomic-energy) ‘would be ineffec-
tive,’ for ‘the technology of
atomic production makes it pos-
sible without particular difficulty
.... to transform atomic
material for peaceful purposes
into atomic weapons. Con-
trollers there can be, but it does
not follow that they can control.’
“Disarmament is not a cause
but a consequence of peace, and
even as such it may be
dangerous, as our experience
after two world wars has clearly
shown.”
The Door-handle
Summing - up (in London
“Time and Tide”) by Salvador
de Madariaga on the Bulganin-
Khrushchev visit to the U.K.:
“Do the Soviets want ‘to be
friends’ with the United States?
Of course they do. The chain
of thought is obvious. Of the
two ways of securing the
Sovietisation of the world, the
hot war is practically out owing
to the - H-bomb; the cold war
only remains.
“This visit to England has
been a huge Soviet success in
the cold war. It has dismayed
the Eastern Europeans and even
the gagged opposition in the
Soviet Union by showing them
their oppressors received in one
of the capitals of freedom.
Hence the exaggerations, nay,
the inventions of ‘Pravda’ in
describing the Twin Tsars
snowed-under by imaginary
flowers and confetti. Not a
single unfavorable aspect of the
visit has filtered through the
censorship. The silent crowds,
the protests, nothing was allowed
through ; and incidents such
that which enlivened the Labor-
party dinner have been silenced
or watered-down or attributed to
a small clique.
“The visit has moved the
well-meaning and well-wishing
Briton to a ‘let-us-be-friends-
with-the-Russians’ attitude; it
has made the City [finance]
men’s mouths water with visions
of millions of trade. It has con-
firmed the Nassers, Ibn Sauds,
Titos and Francos of all con-
tinents in their view that good
relations with Moscow are profit-
able and respectable. These are
substantial gains for the Soviet.
“Why not try it on the Ameri-
cans? Ah, but the Americans
are more hardboiled than the
British about Communism and
less starry-eyed as to that let-us-
be-friends state of mind. Why
not try the British to open the
door of the U.S.? Perhaps as
a hint, the Soviet delegation
bought in Birmingham a million
door-handles.”
Soviet Defence Cut
Press comment on the Soviet’s
announced cut of 1,200,000 men
in its Army:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“In every respect the Moscow
announcement of vast cuts in
Russian conventional arma-
ments conforms to expectations.
They reflect the fact, of which
Mr. Khrushchev boasted during
his visit [to the U.K.], that
Russia is now well-equipped
with nuclear weapons. Substan-
tial manpower will be released
to help Mr. Khrushchev’s
ambition to overcome the dis-
appointing results of his agri-
cultural policy.”
* * *
“Manchester G u a r d i a n” :
“When the Soviet Government
says that it is cutting its armed
forces by more than a million
men it is probably telling the
truth. Its vast armies are out of
date, and it does not need them.
Even when the cuts have been
made it will continue to have
the second-biggest Army in the
world (the biggest being
China’s).
“But great hordes of foot-
soldiers are no longer what
count. Air - power, atomic
weapons of all sizes, and
missiles are the vital military
elements today. In these the
Soviet Government, so far as
can be seen, is increasing its
effort.”
■,••••
The same: “In any case, the
satellite armies have now been
built-up and can take-over from
the Soviet forces. In Eastern
Germany, for example, an Army
thought to number some 125,000
men sprang into being early this
year by the formal conversion
of parts of the People’s Police.
That must be set against the
reduction of 30,000 now
promised in the Soviet garrison
in Eastern Germany.”
* * *
David Lawrence, in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “Undoubtedly
the Soviet move has propaganda-
value. The present Com»?*unst-
line throughout the world is to
picture Soviet Russia as desirous
of peace, while pointing to the
Allies, and particularly the
United States, as placing an
emphasis on ‘military alliances.’ ”


ANOTHER GREAT KODAK
PRODUCT
Mur high-speed On
KODAK TRI-X
>5
3i
ffi
... for pietures you
touldn't get before
II
wm
mm-
mm
m
m.
m
• Taken at l/50th
sec., f/4. Daylight
inside room, with a
reflector.
★ Famous overseas—now made in Aus-
tralia to exacting world standards.
★ Fastest amateur film yet—panchromatic,
too!
★ Gets the pictures you wouldn't attempt
before allows faster shutter speeds
for action shots.
★ Permits more and better pictures in avail-
able light—indoors, on dull days, at night.
★ Gives greater versatility and performance
to every adjustable-type camera.
★ Available in 135, 127, 120, 620 and 828
roll film sizes. Prices the same as those
previously for Kodak Super-XX Film.
BOX CAMERA USERS . . . Kodak TRI-X Film Is so fast that it is
non-adjustable and box-type cameras in bright sunlight.
not recommended for
WRITE TODAY FOR THE FREE TRI-X BOOKLET!
use fn
YOUR KODAK DEALER HAS TRIXI
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD. Branches in all States. Kodak Dealers Everywhere.
and thereafter tried to assume
an impartial critical expression
for the rest of the evening. Then,
at the end of the show, after
agreeing with one’s wife that
it wasn’t bad at all, she asked,
“Well, why did you sit there
scowling like a bear all night?”
And it isn’t a bad show at all,
at all. Since the film of it had
a record run in most Australian
theatres there’s no point in
recounting the tale of the pre-
cocious young lady who chatters
all night about sex, seduction
and professional virginity. Suffi-
cient to record that Moira Red-
mond as the girl; Leon Peers
as the young architect who
doesn’t quite know what he’s
got hold of; Leonard Bullen, as
his neighbor in much the same
boat; and Jack Saulsby, as the
girl’s Irish-policeman father —
all of them do very nicely, with,
possibly, Mr. Bullen’s middle-
aged philanderer taking the
honors.
# ❖ *
Donald Hazelwood
Johann Sebastian Bach
fathered 20 children, and his
unaccompanied Violin Sonata in
C Major serves to demonstrate
that, occasionally, he didn’t
know when to draw the line with
a composition, either.
This long, four-movement
work, so desiccated and
mathematical in its first three
sections, was included in the
recital given at Sydney Con. by
Donald Hazelwood, the young
violinist who has returned after
advanced study in Europe. It is
essentially a piece to test the per-
former’s technical equipment at
all points, with the heaviest
demands on double-stopping.
Mr. Hazelwood emerged with
only a few minor dents, caused
mostly by an insufficiently broad
tone in the first slow movement.
The final section, in which Bach
eased his austerity, has a joyous
lilt, and the violinist made the
most of it.
Beethoven’s Sonata in G
Major, Op. 30 No. 3 —by no
means the master’s best —was
given a reading of classical
scholarship and restraint, but it
was left to Brahms, with his
Sonata in the same key-signa-
ture, to bring out the player’s
best work. His tone in the lower
reaches of the instrument was
deep and clear, giving the adagio
a fine dramatic solemnity. The
fast passages elsewhere, especi-
ally in the high altitudes, were
negotiated with sureness and
authority.
The violinist also played
Novacek’s “Perpetuum Mobile”
crisply and with excellent tone,
and Veracini’s “Largo” and
Szymanowski’s “Chant de
Roxane”—an acceptable trans-
cription of an operatic aria
written, fortunately, before the
composer tried with such dire
results to outdo the French
school of impressionists.
Bryan Doyle’s collaboration
at the piano was secure, well-
judged and in the best of taste.
“Carrington, V.C
There are two themes which
rarely fail to hold their theatre
audiences: for dramatic tension,
a courtroom; for comedy,
Army discipline. To combine
both, as Dorothy and Campbell
Christie have done in “Carring-
ton, V.C.,” is to make sure of
bringing dowm the flightiest
audience with at least one shot
from the double-barrel.
Brisbane Repertory Theatre
presented the play with the finest
cast it could muster, including
some of Queensland’s best-
known radio personalities, and
the result was even beyond
expectations.
With oyer a dozen khaki-clad,
ribboned and medalled figures
constantly on the stage, a
remarkable variety of character
was achieved, particularly in the
admirably drawn studies of
Carrington, his friend, and his
prosecutor.
Betty Ross’s sense of ease and
Gwen Wheeler’s natural tensions
were cleverly' tailored into this
exceptional production by
Babette Stephens.
V.V.
telephoned a friend for whom
Smithy sewed a few days before
she came to me.
She could tell me nothing of
our vanished treasure, as Smithy
had not come to her, either, on
the appointed day. My friend
was not even interested about it,
being very worried about the loss
of some valuable jewellery. After
weeks of hunting it still couldn’t
be found.
She was afraid that her hus-
band, absent-minded as he was,
would notice, and that she would
have to confess the loss of his
present to her. It was then I
realised I had seen the spider-
brooch before. Of course! No
wonder 1 had noticed it on
Smithy’s (or my) suit. The time
before that that I had seen it,
the unpleasant arachnid Had
been fiercely shining on my
friend’s coat, when we had
driven together to some function
at our children’s school.
Unable to think of any better
way of helping her I suggested
she hurry her family dinner and
come to see me afterwards, so we
could discuss the matter. This
she agreed to do, and mentioned
that the brooch had been worn
last on our school-visit, so would
I, please, look in the car and
behind the seats, just in case it
was hidden there? Though we
would surely have seen it by
now if it was.
We talked it over and I told
her of my suspicions about
poor Smithy. Though finding it
hard to believe even then, we
decided to go to Smithy’s home
next day and have it out. We
dreaded the thought of that
interview, but it had to be faced.
A/TRS. GORDON, Smithy’s
sister, was unable to help us.
She said she thought we knew
Smithy was taking holidays.
Mrs. Gordon said she had news
which would surprise us even
more; she had been surprised
herself. They had been walking
out that many years on the quiet,
but her sister was no longer
Smithy : she was someone else,
at least she was the same, and
yet different, if you see what I
mean, for she had changed her
name at last; fancy, the first time
in all these years. Well, you
never knew, did you?
It had caused quite a stir in
the family, which had long
ceased to expect them to come to
the point, but they were very
pleased for her ; not that they
would not miss her, mind you;
they had lived together all these
years and it would be quite a
change to be oh their own all of
a sudden.
Such a nice man Smithy had
married, if different from what
you’d expect, and well-off, too;
not that that was everything, but
it made all the difference just the
same. Goodness knows if he
would let Smithy sew for us any
more, though she * hoped he
would not mind her doing a few
things for her own sister now
and again, as usual. They were
enjoying their honeymoon now
up at that Paradise place. Her
sister had wished to surprise her
old friends herself with her
news; but, as they had come to
see her, Mrs. Gordon could not
resist telling us herself.
Mrs. Gordon’s resistance to
spoken words was dangerously
low, as has been shown. There
were so many things she could
not resist telling us that we found
it hard to make our departure.
After refusing a cup of tea for
the seventh time, and feeling
rather mean about it, we man-
aged to rush home in time for
the return of our children from
school.
At any other time we would
have been delighted with the
news of Smithy’s wedding—we
presumed that Mrs. Gordon
meant that, with her talk of
surprising news, etc. —though
we found that we couldn’t get out
of the habit of calling her
Smithy. After Violet’s debacle,
anything could happen, and
Smithy’s wedding seemed so
much more natural. She cer-
tainly deserved a better fate than
Violet’s, if that had anything to
do with it.
Evidently it did not. Poor
Smithy! Our next news of her
was that her husband was
remanded on bail, on charges
of car-stealing and forgery, in
the eastern States.
''HJE managed to keep Smithy’s
connection with the affair
out of the papers, but the police
came to interview all her em-
ployers. It appeared that we had
not forgotten her, as I once
feared, as we had jointly
furnished her entire wardrobe
and trousseau. She had a fine
collection of linen she had
gathered piece-by-piece through
the years from our cupboards.
All the articles I missed I hadn’t
mislaid entirely through care-
lessness.
She was very contrite. Ap-
parently it all began shortly after
Grandmother and Violet paid her
the visit about the pearl necklace.
Her life had been grim, with little
fun, and she was an excellent
dressmaker.
We couldn’t replace her, and
were too fond of her to wish to
do so. It was agreed accordingly
that bygones were bygones.
Now I must arrange some
summer clothing for the children,
and plan a tasty lunch. To-
morrow Smithy is coming to sew
for me, and the children are
excited at the thought of seeing
her, and their new clothes. It’s
no use writing to me for her
address; she is always booked-
out we like to save her as
much as we can, these days. If
Smithy’s husband puts his foot
down and prevents her from
coming to us when his trouble is
over, we shall manage some-
how, but we shall miss our
Smithy in more ways than one.
Artbursts
Art from the Country
“Art from the Country,” a
show sponsored by Adult Educa-
tion and reserved exclusively for
artists who wield brush and
pencil outside a 30-mile radius
from the city, is at the
Athenaeum Gallery in Mel-
bourne.
Although one might have
expected these artists to produce
pictures reflecting the life around
them, it appears that they are
more interested in the various
artistic foibles which emanate
from the studios of Collins-street
and Fitzroy and the National
Gallery in Melbourne. Picassos,
abstractions and surrealist
pictures are interspersed with a
few simple essays in naturalistic
painting, and there is even a
landscape that could have been
painted by Albert Namatjira if it
were in watercolor instead of
oils. Here and there a primitive,
who for some reason- or other
has escaped any influence what-
ever, has painted a gumtree with
all the innocence of a Rousseau,
but these are striking exceptions.
The phenomenon is not as
mysterious as it appears. For
the past three years the Council
of Adult Education, in con-
spiracy with the National
Gallery of Melbourne, has been
pouring the culture of the city
into the unsuspecting country by
means of travelling-exhibitions
accompanied by lecturers on art-
appreciation. The plot has suc-
ceeded beyond their wildest
expectations.
Talkies
“The Deep Blue Sea” (Sydney
Century): Film - version of
Terence Rattigan’s play about
the cultured wife of an eminent
English judge who forsakes her
marriage and social status to live
in comparative squalor with a
selfish young extrovert who
accords her third place to golf
and drink. If one accepts that
much, then the consequent
events are logical enough,
including her two attempts at
suicide.
Vivien Leigh gives much the
same conviction to the central
role as Googie Withers did in
the Sydney stage-presentation;
Kenneth More makes a cheer-
fully casual fellow of the com-
plete extrovert; and tiptop
support comes from Eric Port-
man and Emlyn Williams.
“Albert, R.N.” (G.U.
Theatres): Another p.-0.-w.
escape story, this one in a camp
of British and American naval
men. One of them, a former
sculptor (Anthony Steel), con-
ceives the idea of making a
papier-mache figure of a man
which can be taken to pieces.
It is smuggled out in pieces
while the prisoners leave the
compound for the bath-house;
it is then assembled, and dressed
to take the place of the escapee
and “walked” back between
two men. A fair degree ol
tension and touches of robust
humor, with character-parts in
the hands of experts.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PATTIE JUNE EDWARDS late of
114 Kerr Street Mayfield West and ROY
REGINALD OAKLEY late of E. K.
Avenue Charlestown.—TAKE NOTICE
that WILLIAM ARTHUR EDWARDS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 769 of
1956" on the ground of your adultery If
either of you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 27th day of July 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. ALISTER JOHNSON &
McDONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO., Solicitors, of 2 York Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SCfUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS WILLIAM URQUHART
COUPER late of Ettalong.— I TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE ANN COUPER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1587 of
1956 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17th August 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PERCY HENRY ARTHUR
MATTHEWS late of 29 Suttor Street
Young Wallsend. —TAKE NOTICE that
JEAN MATTHEWS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 833 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you Wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Bth day of August 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
R. S. WOODGATE, Solicitor, of 44 King
Street, Newcastle.—J. DOUGHA N,
Registrar.
INSURANCE —for your protection-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bony Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 8131 (4 lines)
W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
s
/U^
iss/
‘W
<f_ V
■~'M)
w,,tk
\
■
%ip-
'v«#
Wwsan-Water/
• • . but he has a fast friend!
AOST/tAI/A'S <T (/ P£ A>
G A J O £ //If £
Make the spirit of JWaffn//%etctin%
you# rAsr re/Mo roe/
AT YOUR
ATLANTIC
RETAILER
G/56
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of jingle beginning “Foxie
gave a ball, But he didn’t ask us
all, Blast his eyes.” —6330.
To buy The Bara Ground, by
Lindsay Black. —6331.
To buy Merino, Past, Present and
Future, by Austin. —6332.
To buy Savage Civilisation, by
Tom Harrisson (in fair condition). —
6333.
To buy copies of “Review of
Marketing and Agricultural
Economics” (1948 and 1949 vols.),
published by N.S.W.. Department of
Agriculture.—6334.
To buy Key to the Australian
Eucalypts, by W. F. Blakely;
Gregory Blaxland’s “Journal of a tour
of discovery across the Blue
Mountains in the year 1813” (reprint
Edinburgh 1893 and Sydney 1913);
and The Sphinx of Eagle hawk
(Bendigo Story), The Sealskin Coat,
The Squatter’s Dream, and War to
the Knife, all by Rolf Boldrewood. —
6335.
Information Sought
Winners of the Victorian Football
League premiership since its begin-
ning ?
1897, Essendon; 1898-99, Fitzroy;
1900, Melbourne; 1901, Essendon;
1902-03, Collin gwood; 1904-05,
Fitzroy; 1906-07-08, Carlton; 1909,
South Melbourne; 1910,
Collingwood; 1911-12, Essendon;
1913, Fitzroy; 1914-15, Carlton;
1916, Fitzroy; 1917, Collingwood;
1918, South Melbourne; 1919,
Collingwood; 1920-21, Richmond;
1922, Fitzroy; 1923-24, Essendon;
1925, Geelong; 1926, Melbourne;
1927-28-29-30, Collingwood; 1931,
Geelong; 1932, Richmond; 1933,
South Melbourne; 1934, Richmond ;
1935-36, Collingwood; 1937,
Geelong; 1938, Carlton; 1939-40-41,
Melbourne; 1942, Essendon; 1943,
Richmond; 1944, Fitzroy; 1945,
Carlton; 1946, Essendon; 1947,
Carlton; 1948, Melbourne; 1949-50,
Essendon; 1951-52, Geelong; 1953,
Collingwood; 1954, Footsoray ; 1955,
Melbourne.
* * * *
Some information on the beginnings
of Canberra ?
By the Seat of Government Act,
1908, Federal Parliament decided on
a site for the Australian capital in
the district of Yass-Canberra, an
area comprising some 900 square-
miles (also decided on was the area
at Jervis Bay for development as a
Commonwealth port). The actual
site for Canberra was suggested by
District Surveyor Charles Robert
Scrivener, and after investigation by
a board of experts this was approved
by the Commonwealth and handed
over by the N.S.W. Government on
Jan. 1, 1911. After Scrivener had
surveyed the area, and after Percy
Owen, Commonwealth Director-
General of Works, had developed
plans for water-supply, sewerage and
electric-power services, the Govern-
ment decided to invite plans for the
city. The competition was held in
1911, first prize being awarded to
Walter Burley Griffin, a landscape-
architect of Chicago (U.S.A.). A
bill to provide for administration of
the Territory was introduced into
Parliament by King O’Malley,
Minister for Home Affairs, in 1910,
and became law; local administration
began in 1912. David Miller was the
first Administrator. Miller arranged
the next important landmark in the
city’s progress when, on Mar. 12,
1913, at a ceremony on Capital Hill,
attended by representatives from all
over Australia, foundation-stones of a
Commencement Column were laid by
the Governor-General (Lord Den-
man), by the Prime Minister
(Andrew Fisher) and by King
O’Malley; Lady Denman, drawing a
card from a gold case, said “I name
the capital city of Australia
‘Canberra.’ ” World War I' halted
development, but after the war, under
the drive of Sir Littleton Groom,
Federal Minister for Works and
Railways, works and services were
rapidly gone ahead with. Federal
Parliament first met in Canberra on
May 9, 1927.
* * * *
Brief information cm the Australian
War Memorial ?
The Australian War Memorial, on
the slopes of Mt. Ainslie, Canberra,
designed to commemorate the war-
service of Australians in both World
Wars, is recognised as one of the finest
of its type in the world. The sugges-
tion to establish such a memorial was
first made in 1917, but it was not till
the 1941 Armistice Day (Nov. 11)
anniversary that the building was
opened to the public. Within there is
the Garden Courtyard, with a Pool
of Reflection and Stone of Remem-
brance. Flanking the courtyard on
the ground-floor are galleries Showing
phases - of Australia’s fighting record ;
there \are the Gallipoli and the
France galleries, for instance;
altogether the Memorial holds a vast
array of war relics. Arcaded cloisters
overlook the courtyard, with the
tablets of the Roll of Honor. The
heart of the Memorial is the Flail of
Memory, with a great dome 117 ft.
high, with stained-glass windows in
subdued colors and walls encrusted
with mosaics depicting groups repre-
senting the different Services.
* * * *
(1) Information on promulgations
concerning the national flag ? (2) Why
does one star have only five points
while each of the others has seven ?
(1) By a notice published in the
“Commonwealth Gazette” of August
15, 1903, the official flag of the Com-
monwealth of Australia was
designated as the Red Ensign of his
Majesty’s Fleet. Superimposed, in
the centre of the lower canton next
to the staff, and pointing direct to the
centre of the St. George’s Cross in the
Union Jack in the upper canton next
to the staff, were a white six-pointed
star, indicating the six Federated
States of Australia, and in the fly five
smaller white stars representing the
Southern Cross. By a further notice
published in the “Commonwealth
Gazette” of December 19, 1908, the
foregoing design was amended to sub-
stitute a star of seven points repre-
senting the six States and the
territories of the Commonwealth. (2)
The number of points in the stars of
the Southern Cross does not appear
to have been expressly designated,
but the Cross is usually represented
by four stars of seven points, and one
star of five points.
* * * *
Information on the origins and
breeding of the Airedale-terrier ?
The following information was sup-
plied by the R.A.S. Kennel Club,
Sydney: “It is curious that a dog
made within the lifetime of many of
our grandfathers should have just
grown up without anyone knowing
exactly how it was made. The belief,
however, is that the Airedale came
originally from the union of otter-
hound blood with that of the old
black-and-tan sporting-terriers com-
mon in Yorkshire: Probably the
crossing was intended to produce a
stout terrier that would be useful in
otter-hunting or in other sports in
which Yorkshire tykes were used.
What were called ‘broken-haired
terriers,’ probably the precursors of
the Airedale, were exhibited at agri-
cultural shows in Yorkshire as long
ago as 1864. No definite name, how-
ever, was given to these dogs until
1879, when they were first called
Bingley-terriers; that was thought to
be too restrictive, and eventually the
present name was adopted, after they
had been known for a while as water-
side-terriers. Airedales are of the
medium size that is particularly
useful, they are strong, active and, at
their best, really good-looking; and
they are sensible and companionable.
They have been used extensively on
the Continent for police-dog work
and for military duties, and the Ger-
mans have attached great value to
them. As show-dogs, when at their
best, few fill the eye better.” ✓
* * * *
Is former Australian spin-bowler
Bruce Dooland eligible to play for
England against Australia ?
According to the Imperial Cricket
Conference’s rules for Test-matches,
“A cricketer unless debarred by the
Imperial Cricket Conference shall be
entitled to play for any country in
which he is residing and has been
residing during the four immediately
preceding years provided that he has
not played for the country of his
birth during that period.” Dooland
has lived and played in England since
1949, and would therefore be eligible
to play for England if selected (as
would be former Australian cricketers
such as Tribe, Walsh, Jackson, etc.).
However, the rules also provide that
“any player who has once played in
a Test-match for any country shall
not afterwards b'e eligible to play in
a Test-match against that country
without the consent of its governing
body.”
* * * *
(1) In the Melbourne Cup, what
horse (a) ran fastest time, (b) carried
highest weight, (c) carried lightest
weight, ( d) ran slowest time, (e) won
the richest Cup, (/) was shortest-
priced winner, (g) was longest-priced
winner, (Ji) won Melbourne and Caul-
field double? (2) Were Duke Foote
and Prince Foote related ? (3) In
what races won by Chicquita was she
most heavily weighted?
(1) (a) Comic Court, 1950, time 3min.
19£sec.; (b) Carbine (10.5), 1890; (c)
Banker (5.4), 1863; (d) Archer, 1861,
and Lantern, 1864, 3.52; (<?) 1954
and 1955, £15,000 plus £5OO trophy
—winner’s share £ll,OOO, including
trophy (1954, Rising Fasti; 1955,
Toparoa); (/) Phar Lap 11 to 8 on
(1930); (g) The Pearl (1871), Wotan
(1936) and Old Rowley (1940) all
started at 100 to 1; (/r) Poseidon
(1906), The Trump (1937), Rivette
(1939) and Rising Fast (1954). (2)
Duke Foote and Prince Foote were
both sired by Sir Foote. They were
not related on the dam’s side, Duke
Foote’s dam being Ortelle (imp.), and
Prince Foote’s Pelruschka. (3)
Chicquita won the V.R.C. Cooparle
Highweight (Feb. 11, 1950) with 9.10.
She ran second in the Melbourne Cup
with 8.10 and second in the Caulfield
Cup with 8.12. Most of her racing
was in w.f.a. contests.
Brief Answers
J.A.G.: Write Machinery Lloyd,
Personal Service Department, 60
Cavendish-place, Regent-street, Lon-
don, W.l W.M.McN.: Poem by
Kenneth Mackenzie, “To My Love,”
first appeared in “The Australian
Author,” a souvenir-magazine pub-
lished by the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers, Sydney, in 1935
W.H.C.: Garden Trees and Shrubs of
Australasia, by Harold Sargeant, price
215.; obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney J. 8.: “New Common-
wealth,” 33 Tothill-street, West-
minster, S.W.I, L0nd0n....J.J.G.:
Write W. H. Paling and Co., Ltd.,
338 George-street, Sydney, or Chap-
pell and Co., Ltd., 250 Pitt-street,
Sydney P.G.: Write Allan Perry,
Hon. Secretary, Royal Australian
Army Ordnance Association (N.S.W.),
41 Desmond - street, Merrylands
(N.S.W.) K.G.D.: The Bulletin
office has been situated at the follow-
ing addresses in Sydney: 107 Castle-
reagh-street (Jan., 1880-July, 1880), 13
Bridge-street (July, 1880-Aug., 1881),
24 Pitt-street (Aug., 1881-Aug., 1896),
214 George-street < (Aug., 1896-Nov.,
1931). From Nov., 1931, it has been
situated at its present address —252
George-street, Sydney 8.J.: An
article by Gavin Casey on Jack Soren-
son, the West Australian poet,
appeared in The Bulletin of June
20, 1951... .F.J.W.: David McKee
Wright died on February 2, 1928;
John Bede Dailey on September 6,
1935; Arthur H. Adams on March 4,
1936... .C.H.M.: Write Tyrrell’s
Bookshop, 202 George-street, Sydney.
. ...J.F.F.: (1) Linder Australian
income-tax procedure a primary-pro-
ducer is subject to averaging-provi-
sions if both his income and average
income are below £4OOO. Where the
averaging-provisions apply, the in-
come for the year is taxed at a rate
determined by the average income.
The usual averaging-period is live
years. (2) So far»as is known, this
method of assessment is unique to
Australia. (3) It has the general
approval of Australian farmers
L.H.: Thelma dal Pozzo, aged 17,
was strangled to death near her home
in Broken Hill on June 1, 1952. The
trial of Gilbert Ryan, 23, for her
murder took place at the Broken Hill
sittings of the Supreme Court on
Sept. 5, 1952. His appeal against
death-sentence was dismissed by the
Court of Criminal Appeal on Nov.
28, 1952....X.X.: (1) John Landy
was born on April 12, 1930, at Haw-
thorn (Vic.). He is sft. llin. in
I height. (2) Shirley Strickland will be
31 in July... .D.W.: (1) The eleventh
edition of The Australian Parliament-
ary .Handbook, published in 1953, is
the latest. (2) Yes, it contains
“thumbnail biographies” of the
Federal Ministry G.H.H.:
(Papua): (1) Ibid, (or ib.) means “in
the same place.” It is used to avoid
repeating specific references. If a
quotation is made from a specified
source, the next quotation, if labelled
ibid., comes from the same source.
(2) The documents in the Mitchell
Library are available only to ticket-
holders, usually students or research-
workers. Special permission is, how-
ever, sometimes granted to a person
without a ticket if he wishes to under-
take research 0.E.C.: Have for-
warded your beehive-puzzle on to
“B-herd” A.H.8.N0 informa-
tion. Mittagong and District : Its
Industrial Development, by R. Else-
Mitchell, has no reference whatever
to any diamond-fields at Mittagong.
I However, the author states that the
work is not “an exhaustive account of
every industry which ever flourished
in the Mittagong district”
A.W.8.: Write Birt and Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 4 Bridge-street, Sydney, or
Gibbs, Bright and Co., 37-43 Pitt-
street, Sydney H.L.G.: Books on
the construction of sound-boxes avail-
able at Angus and Robertson,' Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, include
Hi-Fi Manual, by D. C. Hoefler (Bs.
3d., post 7d.), and Trend Book No.
124 — High Fidelity Home Music
Systems (Bs. 3d., post 7d.) J.A.:
Cane Furniture the Easy Way, by
O. R. Scott, available at Angus and
Robertson’s C.L.: Most popular
work on farm-economics is The
Economics of Agriculture, by R. L.
Cohen. It applies the technique of
economic analysis to agricultural
problems. (From Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., 14s. 3d., post 9d.)
Stockman: The instrument concerned
is obtainable from Holdenson and
I Nielson (veterinary supplies and in-
strument section), 77 Belmore-road,
Randwick (N.S.W.), or W. Jno.
Baker Pty., Ltd., 3 Flunter-street,
Sydney Morian: Write W. H. Pal-
ing and Co., Ltd., 338 George-street,
Sydney, or Nicholsons Pty., Ltd., 416
George-street, Sydney.


IYS
f ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
V/ { • '
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
„ Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeeper / and Agents
Lysoght Bros. & Co. Pfy. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackball fit, Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
' 7 ,—! * — ll 11 ■ ■ ■
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ACHIEVEMENTS IN WOOL-RESEARCH (1)
[ln this, the first of two articles,
K. J. Whiteley, of the School of
Wool Technology, Sydney,
describes some current develop-
ments in wool-research.]
WOOL-research the world
over is being intensified
and growers can pride
themselves that the
world’s best all-round fibre is also
used extensively to advance bio-
logical research, particularly in
the molecular structure of pro-
teins. In recent years, the Nobel
prize was awarded twice to
workers in wool-research. That
such high standards are neces-
sary to increase our knowledge
of wool indicates the complexity
oft the problems involved.
In spinning a synthetic fibre,
the principal requirements are
that the fibre-substance will dis-
solve in some suitable chemical
so that it can be spurted through
a tiny aperture called a spinneret
to form a “liquid fibre,” and
that the fibre will solidify under
certain chemical and physical
conditions.
This procedure usually results
in a regular homogeneous
material, and although all known
synthetic fibres have definite
faults, their uniformity of struc-
ture and composition is a great
advantage to the manufacturer.
By comparison, wool is a
headache. Like all biological
material, it is extremely variable
—not only from country to
country, State to State, district
to district and sheep to sheep,
but from one side of each fibre
to the other. It varies in chemi-
cal composition from tip to root
because.of the effect of weather
and sunlight, and in handle,
lustre, crimps-per-inch and
diameter. Further, wool-fibres
The cost of fly-strike
to the wool industry
must be colossal. If
this scourge will ever
be effectively con-
trolled remains to be
seen. In the mean-
time, however, it is
interesting to note
that numerous stock
owners who mark and
tail lambs and mark
calves with “Elas-
trator” Rubber Rings
report that one of the
results of using the
rings is a considerable
lessening of fly-strike
risk compared with
tlxe risk which is pre-
sent when other mark-
ing and tailing
methods are used.
are not circular, and a complete
description would require two
measurements of diameter at
right-angles to each other.
Wool is spun in similar fashion
to synthetics, each fibre being
extruded from a tiny spinneret
called a follicle embedded in the
skin of all mammals. The outer-
most layers of the skin are
called the epithelium. In this
region, cells which are forming
continually at a germinative
layer move outwards, shrivel and
become keratinised.
This layer of keratin is par-
ticularly noticeable in reptiles,
and a similar process occurs on
our own bodies, although it is
not nearly so obvious.
A hair or a wool-fibre is only
a modification of this process.
The epithelium contains tiny
pockets or follicles formed
during early life as a result of
a downgrowth from the epi-
thelium. The cells move out as
before and up the follicle, gradu-
ally hardening as they go.
The chemical reactions in-
volved are not all known, but
one of the most important re-
vealed by research is a linking
between sulphur-atoms in neigh-
boring molecules. This is called
the disulphide-bond and is
thought to be the main cause of
wool’s resistance to chemical
and physical attack. Professor
Sobue, from Tokyo University,
has shown that the physical
properties of wool are drastically
altered by breaking this
disulphide-bond.
The formation of the follicles
is easily observed, but the micro-
scope gives no clue to the forces
causing the change. There are
two main types of fibres. The
large primary fibres contain wax-
glands and sweat-glands (seba-
ceous and sudoriferous) and a
muscle capable of erecting the
hair. The secondary fibres do
not have the muscle or sweat-
gland ; occasionally they have
the sebaceous gland.
The growth of most follicles
begins before the birth of the
lamb, and Australian workers
Miss M. Hardy and Mr. A. G.
Lyne have realised the advan-
tage of being able to watch
follicle-development and subse-
quent fibre-formation in the
laboratory. To do this they have
attempted to keep a sample of
skin “alive” by supplying the
necessary nutrients. They have
succeeded in keeping sections of
skin from unborn lambs for up
to 38 days, arid have observed
follicle-development and forma-
tion of rudimentary wool-fibres.
Another line of research seeks
to redissolve wool and replace
the natural formation in the skin
by a synthetic method. Wool
could then be spun to specifi-
cations with all the advantages
of a man-made fibre, and waste-
materials and rags could be
regenerated into high-quality
materials. So far, wool can be
dissolved and precipitated, but
the resulting fibre has little
strength or resistance because
ol' the lack of disulphide-bonds
which cannot readily be re-
formed.
Methods are improving, how-
ever, and at the International
Wool Textile Conference last
year, Dr. Happey, from Brad-
ford, described a series of pilot-
plants he had used in preparing
regenerated keratin-fibres. A
sample of the fibre was fairly
brittle, but the production of
material that could be wound
on a spool or made into a skein
of yarn is, in itself, a great
achievement.
Scientists are also trying to
find some measurable basis and
standard definitions for wool-
quality. The haqd and eye of
the buyer determine the price of
wool. Although the scientist
may define wool-quality, his
laboratory-technique is unlikely
to replace the practical man’s
method for many years. Until
then, as Professor P. R. Mc-
Mahon has emphasised, the
properly standardised criterion
of the practical man should be
used in research.
C.5.1.R.0. workers have made
estimates of the relative eco-
nomic importance of diameter,
crimps-per-inch, staple-length,
count, character, color and
soundness of handle. They used
20 fleeces from each of three
Merino strains fine, medium
and strong—and the prices were
derived from the Australia-wide
mean-prices for types as classi-
fied by the Australian Wool
Realisation Commission.
Results are rather surprising.
At no time was character —dis-
tinctness of crimp found to
be important, while soundness
and handle were also usually
unimportant. Length and color
had consistent effects on price,
but these were relatively small
compared with the overwhelm-
ing importance of count, or
quality-number, which alone
controlled nearly 80 per cent, of
the variation in price. Diameter
and crimps-per-inch had real
influence on price, but they are
such important factors in the
determination of count that they
could be neglected, the estima-
tion of quality-number taking
them into account.
Count -is obviously the most
important factor financially, and
it appears that it can be defined
in terms of crimps-per-inch and
diameter. Such investigations
are useful in determining which
wools are most in demand or
perhaps “ideal” at the moment,
and some attempts have been
made to use these measurable
terms as estimates of wool-
quality.
Fibre-diameter has been sug-
gested as a suitable measure,
and it is commonly thought that
fibre-fineness is the most im-
portant single factor in wool-
quality. There is a good deal of
controversy over this point, and
many authorities consider that
crimps-per-inch are just as im-
portant, particularly for greasy
wools. While fibre-diameter and
wool-quality are closely related,
however, there are other con-
siderations, and it should be re-
membered that, within a quality-
number, or mean fibre-diameter,
a range of qualities is possible.
Professor J. B. Speakman has
attempted to find another
measure for quality based on
the molecular orientation of the
keratin. He used batches of
64’s wool of varying quality and
analysed it in the following way:
In any substance there are
different physical forms in which
molecules can be arranged, and
these forms will determine the
resultant properties to a large
extent. If, in the case of a fibre
such as the wool, the long chain-
molecules of which it is con-
structed lie in an orderly
fashion side-by-side it is called
a crystalling region and dis-
plays properties of a crystalline
material. If, however, the mole-
cules are haphazardly arranged
in respect to one another, the
region is called an amorphous
one. .
Crystallinity usually confers
strength to the fibre, but also
brittleness aqd harsh handle.
Amorphous fibres are very weak.
The wool-fibre consists of a
blend of these two types of
physical arrangement, and
Speakman has shown that the
relative amounts of the two are
closely associated with quality-
gradings determined by the trade.
The technique is involved and
more work is necessary.
American workers studying
resilience failed to relate it to
any easily measurable character-
istic and concluded that the
property was inherent in the
molecular-arrangement of the
fibre. This is also true for such
properties as elasticity and
strength, so that the artificial
preparation of a fibre similar to
wool requires a fantastically
complex chain-molecule, the
structure of which is still far
from elucidation let alone con-
struction.
While such research is con-
tinuing it is essential to study the
other methods of hand and eye
used in classing and buying.
Manufacturers and buyers have
co-operated with the C.5.1.R.0.
to determine which measurable
factors in wool affected the sub-
jective estimation of handle.
Wools with a wide range of fibre-
diameter and crimps-per-inch
were given handle-scores by
buyers. Fibre-diameter and
crimps-per-inch were the two
most important factors, and the
experiments suggested that
handle in conjunction with
crimps-per-inch would give the
most accurate estimation of
fibre-diameter.
By K. J. Whiteley.
{To be completed next week)
Clearing-methods
“R.H.G.”: “Groper” (B.
16/5/’56) talks about a “42-h.p.
bulldozer” able to clear two
acres a day. In the exaggerated
terms commonly used around
machinery, it would take a
starter-engine that size to kick-
off a really big ’dozer (some
’dozers have auxiliary engines
which must be started first and
then used to start the big motor).
In other words, a 42-h.p.
’dozer is a mere pup—about a
D 4, which one slings on the back
of an ordinary tabletop four-
ton truck.
A Cat. D 8 is rated at 120 h.p.
and is not the biggest—Cater-
pillar is bringing out the D 9,
which dwarfs this monster. The
HD 21, with hydraulic pusher-
bars, grosses over 30 tons dead-
weight. Not so long ago, the
largest ’dozer we had seen in
Australia was the International
TD 24. We haven’t yet seen the
biggest now used in the U.S.A.
The “much - publicised”
method of high-balling has to
be seen to be appreciated. The
spectacle of two 120-h.p. tractors
towing a steel ball about 12ft. in
diameter —the links of the chain
are as thick as a man’s arm—is
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin" Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There's a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wo'ol Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


» L AND
COL UMN
THE
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simple! Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
»
. - :
'
Reading the Bunyip Level. Atmosphere
buttons pressed in.
Ideally serves
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . ..
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
zero to 50 feet.
V
t
*
h ;
Showing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
The Bunyip Level is as simple to
operate in the hands o£ a 10-year-
old as the qualified engineer. It
cannot get out of adjustment and
is a thoroughly efficient instrument
for use in all general construction
work—which normally needs an
expensive levelling instrument
requiring technical skill.
3HB
9
■
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced at
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
YEOMANS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
>1X2515
Agents throughout Australia.
Bill in Coupon and send to us foi
full facts of the BUNYIP LEVEL
NAME
ADDRESS
The "FARMERS' BOY"
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates,
Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous “FARMERS’ BOY”
SERIES II STEPPED-AXLE PLOUGH
AS ILLUSTRATED "HERE
“SERIES II”
or “MAJOR”
The “Farmers’ Boy” “MAJOR” also ploughs, and with its
extra H.P. can turn a 9 inch furrow up to 9 inches deep.
Write or telephone your nearest Slate Distributor for free particulars and for
demonstrations of The Farmers’ Boy Series II and The Farmers’ Boy Major.
N.S.W.: HUBERT STOKES & 00. PTY. LTD., 74 Castlereagh St. BW 9647.
GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1611.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., 115 York St., Launceston.
W.A.: WESTERN MACHINERY Co. Pty. Ltd., 494 Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO. Pty.Ltd., 74 Casrtlereagh St., Sydney.
★ Thinking about dipping soon
to treat KEDS and LICE?
Achieve best results with
SICKLE
BRAND
GAMALENE
LIQUID SHEEP DIP
gSMTUn
SICKLE BRAND
ioa tm*
®?CSSS
fSinuuitt
Complete eradication in one
dipping at lower cost per sheep
Controls Keels, Body Lice
and Foot Lice.
Non-poisonous, non-irritant,
can’t harm flock or fleece.
100% effective in hard
water does not settle in
bath.
Add direct to dipping bath
no stirring needed.
Proved in the field in every
Australian State.
Available in quart bottles—
-1 0 to a carton sufficient
for 2000 sheep.
To effectively treat ITCHMITE
as well as Keels and Lice —in
one Dipping
SICKLE BRAND
ROTALENE
Liquid Sheep Dip
Non-poisonous—wets easily
thoroughly penetrates fleece.
Approved by C.5.1.R.0.
SICKLE BRAND
SI-RO-MARK
Branding Fluid
In Red, Blue or Green, does not
run, even on wet sheep. Can
be scoured by normal processes.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
COMMONWEALTH FERTILISERS AND CHEMICALS LTD.
Reg. Office: 65 William Street, Melbourne. G.P.O. Box 390 D.
quite a sight, and there is no
timber in W.A. that can stand
up to it.
I saw an odd method of clear-
ing during a big road-construc-
tion job through forest-country
some years ago. The con-
tractor had an old steam-engine
of apparently unlimited h.p.
and mounted on clumsy wheels.
This was anchored firmly behind
a large stump -or tree, and a
huge steel cable was then towed
by a horse around a selected
patch of trees mostly big
jarrah and whitegum and
brought back to a hitching-
device at the donkey-engine
again.
The cable was then reeled-in,
with the steam on full-blast and
a big steam-winch turning an
oversize drum. The giant cable
tightening through the bush
brought trees and scrub tumbling
down towards the centre of the
constricting circle.
Costs were low at first, but
there was such a mess left
behind that it afterwards took
a fair-sized ’dozer to clean-up,
so the idea was scrapped.
“8.J.L.”: If “Groper” thinks
the jarrah-forests and redgum-
forests of W.A. are tough
because they resist a 42-h.p.
bulldozer, what would he think
if he could see a 130-h.p. job
come to a shuddering halt
against the bloodwood and blue-
gum of North Queensland? As
for a £in. rope to pull them,
I’ve seen a rope stretch,
whine, and then snap like a
fiddle-string.
Hereford Conference
“D.”: The second world
conference of Hereford
breeders (in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, next month) will
have delegates from the Argen-
tine, Uruguay, Brazil, Paraguay,
the U.S.A., Canada, South
Africa, Australia, New Zealand,
Eire and the United Kingdom.
The breed’s first international
conference, at Hereford in 1951,
was attended by delegates from
nine countries and subsequently
a world-organisation was formed,
with J. R. Bentley, secretary of
the Hereford Stud Book, as
general-secretary.
One of the U.K. delegates to
the Buenos Aires conference will
be Captain R. S. de Q. Quincey,
who will judge the Hereford
classes at the Palermo show on
July 10 —he was lately in Aus-
tralia judging Herefords at the
Sydney Royal Show.
The Buenos Aires conference
will discuss the type of Hereford
demanded by modern require-
ments, and review the registra-
tion of “polls” and try to fix
a world-policy in regard to this
branch of the breed. It will also
try to establish a world-policy
on the breeders’ attitude towards
artificial insemination.
Pyrethrum
“Geep”: Amid the welter of
new chemical insecticides, don’t
lose sight of the old-timer, pyre-
thrum. It will survive the
development of the new pro-
ducts as surely as wool will live
with the synthetip-fibres.
Pyrethrum’s knock - down
power is unrivalled; so is its
safety to humans. By the use of
boosters, or “synergists,” its
killing-power against houseflies,
bugs, cockroaches and some
other insects is increased up to
thirtyfold. No insect affected by
pyrethrum has been known to
develop an immunity: to it. These
assets add-up to a pretty solid
credit-balance.
Authorities in East Africa,
now the world’s biggest pro-
ducer, have every faith in the
future of pyrethrum. At Nakuru,
100 miles from Nairobi, the
Pyrethrum Board of Kenya has
built a £25,000 laboratory where
new strains of pyrethrum-plants
will be studied, problems of pro-
duction and marketing investi-
gated, and a check kept on the
quality of flowers and extracts
to be exported.
Manual harvesting of the
daisylike pyrethrum-flowers has
been a problem in the past; great
hopes are now held for
mechanical - harvesters to be
tested this year.
The plant, Pyrethrum clnerice-
folium, thrives in the Kenya
highlands, and at 7000 ft. to
' 8000 ft. in the southern-
highlands district of Tangan-
yika. Painstaking research into
the growing of the plant and
the extraction of its toxic prin-
ciple (pyrethrin) has resulted in
a high-quality product. East
African flowers now contain
between 1.5 per cent, and 1.6 per
cent, pyrethrin, compared, for
example, with 0.9 per cent, in
Japanese flowers.
The Pyrethrum Board handles
the crop for the growers. It takes
delivery of the flowers, bales
them, and sends them to process-
ing contractors, who produce the
pyrethrum-extract which is the
end-product as far as Africa is
concerned.
America takes more than half
the output, but sales to non-
American countries are growing
significantly.
Eggs and Wheat
“Sundowner”: South Aus-
tralian poultry-expert A. A. Mc-
Ardle holds that whether a bag
of wheat will return more when
sold as grain or when fed to
poultry depends on two factors
—the relative price ruling for
grain and eggs, and how the birds
are fed.
That the question is largely
decided in favor of poultry is
borne out, McArdle says, by the
fact that threequarters of Aus-
tralia’s egg-supplies come from
units where poultry are kept as
a sideline to other activities, of
which grain-growing is a major
one.
The balanced ration is im-
portant. A relatively small ex-
penditure on feedstuffs to supple-
ment a grain-ration can make a
big difference in profit.
If poultry is a sideline to
wheat, enough birds should be
kept to make profitable use of
labor —as much labor is needed
to look after 100 birds as to look
after 300. Many efficient “side-
liners” run from 250 to 500
birds.
McArdle estimates that 200
birds fed with wheat correctly
supplemented with meatmeal and
greenfeed should produce
between 2400 and 2800 dozen
eggs a year. With eggs at 3s. 4|d.
(average ruling figure over 12
months) this can mean a net
return of £325 to £4OO from 100
bags of wheat. This estimate
makes allowance for costs of
protein-supplements, losses on
rearing-replacements, and for
interest on investment.
But, of course, the whole
question depends on ruling prices
for the two commodities.
Farm Hints
“Bill C”: Touching on
cattle putting on soft fat on
pear - country (B. 2/5/’56),
molasses given in large amounts
has a similar effect. There’s a
widespread belief in Queensland
that molasses is a great cattle-
food, but it is no flesh-former,
having no protein, only carbo-
hydrates. It is most .useful for
garnishing dry feed and prevent-
ing impaction, and tends to
prevent poisoning from prussic-
acid in rank forage. Feeding
large quantities of molasses to
pigs may give the flesh a nasty
smell and taint, although a small
amount occasionally acts as a
vermifuge.
“Arsenic”: Farmers who com-
bine dairying with bananagrow-
ing should be prepared to cope
with arsenical poisoning result-
ing from cattle eating weedicides.
A good supply of photographic
hypo, is important. Drench
carefully with 2oz. of hypo, dis-
solved in a pint of water. Con-
tinue drenching at intervals of
four hours for about two days.
If the beast has not resumed
feeding at the end of that time
continue for another day. It is
extremely important to begin
treating as early as possible after
the poisoned material has been
eaten. If the animal is not eat-
ing, try feeding—three times a
day—a gallon of milk in which
31b. sugar has been dissolved.
“Big Billy”: Sand-drift is
proving a big problem in S.A.’s
Murray Mallee, despite improved
control-methods. Latest research
at Wanbi Experimental Station
indicates that best control is
afforded by sowing, as early as
possible in the season, with rye
at 401 b. to the acre, with 3:1
super-ammonia at lcwt. per acre.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(27/5/’56)
A large part of Queensland should have general rains
during July; these should be heaviest in the southern mid-
interior and south-west, with the likelihood of renewed
flooding.
There should also be general rains in most of N. S.
Wales during July; these should be heaviest in the western-
division, north-west and northern-tablelands, where further
flooding is also likely.
Reasonably good follow-on rain should be received in
Victoria during July, with heavy general rains commencing
in August.
In S.A. only moderate, patchy rains may occur during
July, with the interior and part of the west coast confined
to light rain.
The south-west of W.A. should also receive general
rains, although a little below normal. Patchy general rains
are likely in the Gascoyne and goldfields areas, but poor
elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


m
• ...
i. V
TWO REASONS WHY
Holden is more than ever
your best new car buy
I. You get way-ahead value
How far ahead Holden is in value can best
be judged by the over-whelming number
of Australian motorists who choose Holden
in preference to other cars. For the
year ending December 1955, Australian
motorists bought 45,012 Holden Cars.
Registrations of the nearest competitor
were 13,917.
Holden enjoys this marked preference
because it offers all these vital advantages
as well as many others: 6 cylinder power,
21 h.p. performance, 103" wheelbase, 6
passenger roominess and comfort, proven
dependability under all Australian conditions.
These Holden advantages are unequalled
by any car within £l5O of the price of
Holden Standard Sedan—including sales
tax at the new rate.
Get feature by feature proof
of Holden value.
It will pay you to compare features because
it will prove conclusively that Holden gives
you the best combination of power,
economy, roominess—and value.
2. You get overall economy
Holden saves you money in these four
important ways.
Low First Cost. Holden offers you
substantial savings compared with other
cars of comparable size and performance.
Holden is priced from £B7O plus tax.
Remarkable Economy. Many owners
throughout Australia report 30 m.p.g.—
remarkable in a car with the size and
performance of Holden.
Low Maintenance. This is due to the
famous dependability of Holden. Also,
when repairs become necessary, the
simplicity of Holden design cuts costs.
Ready availability of low-cost, factory
guaranteed parts is a further Holden
economy feature.
High Resale Value. The continued
popularity of Holden keeps resale value
high. In fact, average car auction prices
show that Holden owners have a decided
advantage over owners of other popular
cars in the Holden price range. Low
depreciation combined with low initial cost
gives important savings which you simply
cannot afford to over-look.
HOLDEN*
*Registered Trade Mark
List price from £B7O plus tax. Q
Australia’s Own Car Australia’s Finest Value
Convenient hire purchase arrangements are available from GMAC—General Motors own
hire purchase company. There are two ‘Air Chief’ car radios specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced bx Holden Dealers throughout Australia
IXL
This World Famous Brand if
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of&—>
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—9
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
'
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“The Very Symbol”
Speaking in the Legislative Council at
the centenary opening of the N. S. Wales
Parliament, Minister for Labor and
Industry J. J. Maloney condemned the
ceremonial (or “walking-out”) dress of
Australian troops as un-“Australian.”
Referring to the celebration-march of
the armed services, the Minister asked,
“Where was our slouch-hat, our khaki
uniform, our old Artillery outfit, our
Light Horse outfit? Why haven’t we a
uniform of our own particular character
to distinguish our men as Australians?”
The occasion was most appropriate for
such criticism, since we’ve come to believe
that Australia’s first real claim to nation-
hood was made on the shores of Gallipoli,
the sands of Palestine and the mud of
Flanders.
The Commonwealth authorities, if they
cherish national sentiment and tradition,
will give serious thought to Mr. Maloney’s
criticism. They should consider enlist-
ing a special token-unit (a squadron of
Light Horse, say) to recapture and per-
petuate—in real flesh and blood —the pic-
turesqueness and the whole national
significance of the original A.I.F. Digger.
Placed on the permanent establishment
of our standing Army, and dedicated to
the nation, such a unit could be used
solely for State ceremonial parades and
top-flight escort-duties, and perhaps to
give displays at capital-city shows and so
forth. *
Because of its out-and-out Australian
appeal, the Light Horse is the obvious
choice for such a token-unit. There
never was, and probably never will be,
any body of men, fighting or otherwise,
so essentially and colorfully Australian
in dress, character and history as the old
Light Horse regiments. With their
plumed slouch-hats and bandoliers, their
leather-bucketed rifles and (for the most
part) station-bred horses, they were to the
whole world in 1914-18 the very symbol
of the “Aussie” soldier —of Australian
manhood, indeed.
How much more realism would she
have seen in the Australian scene if, dur-
ing her visit a couple of years ago, the
“The characters in this play are fictitious, and resemblance to any
living person is entirely coincidental."
Queen had had for her main functions
an escort of Light Horsemen? How
much stronger would have been the
historic note of the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment’s centenary march-past with a body
of Light Horsemen at its head?
Perhaps the R.S.L. will take up the
N.S.W. Minister’s plea. It warrants tak-
ing up.— Frank Snow (N.S.W.).
'The Australian Vision
In my article on “The Australian
Vision” (B. 23/5/’56) I wrote, by a slip
of the pen, that in 1812 a select com-
mittee “seriously discussed, but rejected”
the idea of a New South Wales Gover-
nor’s Council, etc. The words should
have read “seriously discussed.... .but the
Government rejected.”— M. H. Ellis
(N.S.W.).
New Northern State
Economic facts have demonstrated the
impracticability of trying to set up a new
State in North Queensland at the present
stage of population and development.
An official survey by the Queensland
Bureau of Industry and other Govern-
ment departments has shown that a new
State would have to begin with the sub-
stantial deficit of almost £380,000.
The southern boundary of the pro-
posed new State is formed by the
southern boundaries of the Nebo, Wanga-
ratta, Dalrymple, Flinders, Wyangarie
McKinlay and Boulia local-authorities
This line commences at Sarina, on the
coast, and runs practically due west unti
it reaches the Boulia Shire Counci
boundary, where it deviates south-wes
and follows the local-authority boundary
to the N.T. border.
The population of this area, based on
the 1954 census, is 235,253, or 17.8 pe
cent, of the State-population of 1,318,393
A new State as outlined in the fore
going would begin with a public debt oi
£58,627,749, or £249 4s. 3d. per head
Expenditure on railways and genera
services would total £17,995,796, or
£76 9s. lid. per head, and its revenue
front taxation and receipts generally,
including railways, would amount to
£17,615,334, or £74 17s. 7d. per head,
leaving a deficit of £380,462.
These figures are based on the actual
State public debt at June 30, 1955, and
transactions for 1954-55 of the consoli-
dated-revenue fund.
The attitude of the Queensland Govern-
ment towards a new State was defined
.by the Premier at Townsville on May 4.
Mr. Gair declared that the Government
was not opposed in principle to creation
of new States, but the movement was pre-
mature and would impose crushing
financial commitments upon the people
of North Queensland, The day was still
distant when the establishment of a
separate State would be economically
practicable or advisable.— Clem Lack
(Q-).
The Trades Hall Murder
In the Melbourne “Trades Hall
murder” (B, 11/4/’56) it was never
suggested that Buckley shot the con-
stable. It was admitted that Jackson did.
On Jackson’s appeal, the defence
claimed that he was cornered at the dead-
end of a corridor, that the constable was
advancing firing at him —his aim was
poor ; he had been ill —and that Jackson,
believing he would be killed, fired back
to save his own life.
The Full Court ruled that he had no
right to fire —his duty was to surrender.
Buckley was not present.
I played a minor part in the defence.
—Willie Nillie (Vic.).


Dr. Coombs
R. A. Cotton seems very anxious to
clear Dr. Coombs of his Socialist back-
ground (B. 4/4/’56), but the fact that he
was made governor of the Common-
wealth Bank by the Chifley Socialist
Government should be sufficient evidence.
The London School of Economics,
where ,Dr. Coombs acquired his
economics, was established in 1895 by
Sidney Webb (later Lord Passfield), a
leading member, along with George Ber-
nard Shaw and others, of the Fabian
Socialist Society, and with the • full
approval of the Fabian executive.
The money to do this was willed by
Henry Hutchinson (a member of the
society who died in 1894) to Webb and
three other members, “to be applied to
the propaganda and other purposes of
the Fabian Society and its .Socialism, in
any way they deemed advisable.” —
C. H. C. (Vic.).
The Little Things
“Pumpspray” is right about agents not
paying attention to little things (B.
11/4/’56), but, in many instances, he
won’t get much sympathy from manu-
facturers. Their main interest is selling
the big stuff, too, and it isn’t always the
agent’s fault that certain parts are not
available when needed.
I once travelled for a farm-machinery
company with agencies all over Aus-
tralia. If 1 found a farmer who had not
been given a fair go after buying a
machine, or an agent whose orders were
being neglected, I took the matter up with
(he State head-office. Then the head of
the sales-department said that the
manager did not approve of my actions ;
he told me to lend a sympathetic ear to
complaints, “then forget about them” if
1 wished to get on with the company.
That’s the trouble with a good deal of
high-pressure selling—everybody so busy
chasing the prospective buyer that the
owner must patch-up as best he can until
he becomes a prospect. He’ll get plenty
of attention then. — Tabba (N.S.W.).
Diesels
Practical tests are against “Transporti-
cus” (B. 16/5/’56) when he decries the
diesel railway-engine.
Quite apart from the indisputable
efficiency of the internal-combustion
engine compared with steam, a 300-
mile passenger-run in Victoria demon-
strates the diesel’s superiority.
When hauled by steam, two locos were
used double-header, but had to be
changed en route, involving four locos
for the trip- Running-time was eight
hours, which included two watering-stops.
At the terminal the two locos needed an
hour for reconditioning and reversing
before they could return to traffic.
Operating-costs included 42 crew man-
hours, the provision of two loco.-depots
and the transport of fuel to changeover-
points and terminal-points.
The same train operated by diesels uses
two locos manned by one crew. No loco,
changeovers are required, and the fuel-
tank capacity allows an additional 500
miles running. The running-time has
been reduced to seven hours. Being of
the double-ended type, the locos do not
need reversing at terminals, but can
return immediately to traffic. Only 14
crew man-hours are involved, and no
intermediate-depots or terminal-depots
are required.
Being able to keep a diesel on the main
line and away from depots for long
periods- cuts operating-costs enormously.
The added advantage of driving any
number of coupled locos by remote-
control, using only one crew, reduces
labor-costs and permits greater staff-
flexibility.
Diesel fuel-costs would have to be pro-
hibitive to outweigh the diesel’s contri-
bution in rehabilitating railways
generally. All indications are that they
will continue to prove their value, with
fuel only a minor entry on the debit side.
Until oil is found in this country steam-
engines will be needed to meet such
emergencies as a shortage of overseas
supplies and the needs of defence.
There is no other reason why they should
be kept on the rails. — Four Threes
(Vic.).
’Theory and Practice
I disagree with “Agricola” (B. 9/5/’56)
that university professors fail in their
predictions and the application of theory
because “they specialise in one narrow
field which is often purely theoretical.”
When the advice of professors of
economics has been sought on a national
scale in Australia it has not failed. The
cutting of wages and public spending in
the depression helped to cheapen Aus-
tralia’s products, and our overseas sales
were boosted. Since the war Professor
Copland has consistently , advised the
Government to streamline the luxury-
goods industries and develop our basic
industries. The latest advice, given by
eight prominent economists, to increase
taxation and bond interest-rates is also
likely to prove effective.
There is no wide gulf separating theory
and application. Before a theory can be
formed in any social science (such as
economics) a wide knowledge of what is
actually taking place in practice is needed.
A university economist bases any theories
he may have upon the data he has
collected in his field of research. And
before he can enter a special field he
needs a broad knowledge of the whole of
his subject.
In time, if his theories are not contra-
dicted by the weight of new evidence,
they may be applied. Often the person
who formulated the theory is the one
consulted as to how it should be applied
in practice. Lord Keynes, for example,
advised in the U.S.A. on the application
of his theory of investment.
Initially it would not be possible to
train “efficiency experts” or “industrial
consultants” in “one particular branch of
applied economics.” They undergo a
broad general course in economics or
commerce, and if they do specialise be-
fore becoming “experts” it is by doing
further study and research at honors-
level or masters-level in a special field.
Such study and research are similar to
that undertaken by university men when
they are taking even higher degrees. —
R. A. Cotton (W.A.).
Industrial Relations
I One reason for apathetic employer-
employee relations (B. 9/5/’56) is the
introduction of administration executives
into industry and the relegation of fore-
men to mere supervisors.
Even in my time I can remember when
the foreman was boss —a term the psycho-
logical effect of which can’t be over-
estimated. In those days the foreman
handled all staff-matters, from technical
instruction to welfare; his word was
final, and provided he was human and
fair he inspired leadership and com-
manded respect.
Administration nowadays tends to
separate a foreman from his men with
a barrage of clerks who trade under
various names —staff-clerks, roster-clerks,
stores-clerks, production-clerks, cost-
clerks, etc. Foremen can rarely make a
staff-direction without referring an
employee to one of these pencil-men, and
the effect is for the employee to become
confused with the idea of an expanding
set of bosses. It is not long before the
foreman is regarded as just another one
of the set, and the general attitude is
“Who the hell is boss, anyway? ”
There is another important factor. In
the past the men knew the foreman was
not only boss of the works but also master
of his trade ; in other words, the staff
were all satisfied the foreman was
qualified to be boss.
At present the worker objects to being
pushed around by pencil-men whose
qualifications he does not understand and
who have not the experience to appreci-
ate a tradesman’s point of view. Frustra-
tion soon turns to loss of interest, and the
final stage includes foremen themselves
in the all-round apathy.
The solution is to restore the fore-
man’s prestige by allowing him to
transact all staff-matters personally with
the men.
Administrative executives have their
value, but theirs is a clerical profession*
and should be only a subsidiary aid to
a foreman’s control of industry.— Noah
(Vic.).
Titanium
The financial and statistical facts in
The Bulletin article on titanium (B.
4/4/’56) were most informative, but
rather astray in the remark that “there are
three titanium metals—rutile, zircon and
ilmenite.” Rutile, zircon and ilmenite are
minerals, not metals; and zircon consists
only of zirconium, silicon and oxygen,
and can’t therefore be a source of
titanium.— Geep (W.A.).
Coal and the Atom
Australian colliery-proprietors and
coalminers alike should be interested in
the U.S. coal industry’s conclusions on
the threat of atomic energy to the future
of coal. A representative told the Con-
gressional Committee on Nuclear
Power:
The coal-industry conlidently expects to
meet the nation’s expanding energy demands
within the framework of the free-enterprise
system, without subsidy, and we believe
the nation’s dependence upon coal war-
rants close Congressional scrutiny to the
end that legislative inequities against the
coal-industry shall be eliminated. We do
not fear inroads upon our market by
nuclear power—we believe that for many
years to come the atomic-energy programme
will consume far more coal than is displaced
by nuclear energy.
The seventeen countries of the Organisa-
tion for European Economic Co-opera-
tion have agreed to co-operate in the
development of atomic energy for peace-
ful purposes. Britain’s Chancellor Mac-
millan has commented that the United
Kingdom had spent £3OO million
on nuclear research, and “insofar as we
have skills to spare we are willing to
make them available to Europe.”— B. J.
(N.S.W.).
Who’s Halting Inflation?
Our small family’s grocery-biH
includes the item “Potatoes, 10s.” At
lOd. a pound, that amount barely supplies
enough for a single week —though I can
well remember potatoes being 201 b. a
shilling, and not so many years back
lOib. for a shilling.
Sugar has gone up a penny a pound,
meat is almost prohibitive in price, and
practically all foodstuffs have increased
in cost by leaps and bounds since the
war.
Fares on trains and trams make travel-
ling to work an expensive necessity,
although public transport is practically
insolvent. Clothing, petrol and all other
necessities are soaring beyond the
average breadwinner’s pocket, and
indirect taxation cuts heavily into all
incomes.
Now the Victorian Public Service
Board has granted salary-increases • for
almost 50 per cent, of the State’s public
servants, which will cost £289,000 a year,
and the Victorian Government has pro-
mised legislation to raise the salaries of
those not covered by the board —in spite
of Victoria’s estimated deficit of over
£3,500,000 for the current financial year.
For the last two quarters the cost-of-
living increase under Victorian Wages
Board determinations has been five-
shillings each quarter, and with the latest
rises in prices the next quarter’s increase
should be even greater.
As one of the many breadwinners who
are not receiving cost-of-living increases,
and who are seeing their real income
rapidly reduced, I would really like to
know what is being done in Australia to
halt inflation, and who is doing it. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 385
Across
I—Cloth manufactured by Father
Lindsay. (6)
4—Donnybrook Scot’s brave half-
century. (5)
9—Father swallows an outstanding
aeronaut as a cure-all. (7)
11 — East takes the old-fashioned
doctor a musical work as a pos-
sible improver of vision. (3-4)
12— This main burst about Panama,
Suez, or Corinth. (8)
13 — Poet takes his leave of the reader
in this verse. (5)
15— Canal is to do evil against us.
(5)
16— It's a negro holding metal portals.
(4, 5)
17 — St itch wort century by bumpkin
coppers of small degree. (9)
19 —Carts affirmatives to the medico.
(5)
21— This makes a buccaneer piano
■ furious. (6)
22 South-east 55 with a little boy
goddess of the earth border of a
garment. (8)
24 —Highspot which enables Adam-
son’s mother to recover energy
and freshness. (7)
25 — West Australian explorer who is
in E vor of relaxation and sleep.
(7)
26 — Torchbearer pronouns. (5)
27 — Lady Godiva could hardly have
had this instruction. (6)
Down
1— Seed food for the non-slimming
shellfish. (7)
2 The writer and I figure it is up
to ram the gaols. (14)
3 Since Mo is minced, returns may
deal with them. (7)
5 A sort of grass animal upset
about the editor. (4)
6 It is shattered by Jenny’s coming-
out. (4,3)
7 Origin of the opium report on
pastrycookery. (7)
B—Lecture by a common soldier
where I live. (7, 7)
10—A girl and little creatures are
nudists. (8)
14—Golf lead is taken by metal in
flakes. (4-4)
17— Change the boiler’s force? (7)
18 — Descendants of Tom Christopher
XXX. (7)
19— —Variegated poetry on Diana. (7)
20—Red skin dropping in with the
Spanish weight. (7)
23—Eyesore you canonised. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 384


Diesel Engines
m
MARS
8 H.P.
Slow speed with large
cylinder bore
Bosch type fuel equipment
Sensitive governor control
•
Dynamically balanced
crankshaft and fly wheel
with minimum vibration
•
Easy starting in all weathers
Maximum power with low
fuel consumption
•
Heat treated “Meehanite”
alloy castings throughout
for
Immediate Delivery
THESE MARS
FEATURES
REDUCE
YOUR COSTS
I
m
ptX&r-
-$
MARS
5 H.P.
THE MOST
ATTRACTIVELY
PRICED DIESEL
IN AUSTRALIA
SELF-SERVICE REBUILD KITS AVAILABLE
Low fuel consumption
All wearing parts easily
detachable
No special tools needed
•
Mass produced factory re-
placements always available
•
Mars Overhaul Kit provides
Cylinder Liner, Piston
rings, pins and bushes fitted
ready for use
Almost vibration-free with
minimum wear and tear
Automat tamostat
Temperature Control
e.
n
h.i
m
MARS 3 h p
SOLD & SERVICED BY THE MANUFACTURERS
★ A Selecf group of old-established organisations has been appointed to assist you locally
1
mmi
1
o
m
' A-: T?? e .Madiinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth St., Adelaide. TAS.: Perkins
pxjTT ippT^il 5 J? olh " S S l treet ’ Ho bart. INDIA (Bombay Province): R. S. Mehta & Co., Ali Chambers, Port Bombay.
PHILIPPINES. The Eamshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila. J
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD
BRIDGE ST.
VALLEY
BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advert.
