

n
/
m
nm
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
n
The Bulletin
KNOW YOUR SHARKS— mge 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4007
Wednesday, November 28, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 325: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
LONDON’S MUSICAL LIFE CENTRES ON THE ROYAL ALBERT HALL
AN outstanding London landmark is the Royal Albert Hall, which is situated
in Kensington Gore, facing the Albert Memorial and Kensington
Gardens.
This huge amphitheatre, which accommodates 10,000 people, was built
between the years 1868-71 and was opened by Queen Victoria, ten years after
the death of her husband, Prince Albert, whose name it commemorates. It
was built to the designs of Captain Francis Fowke, who died before the
work was put in hand, and it was carried out by another soldier, Major-
General H. Y. D. Scott. The design of the Albert Hall influenced the
architecture of Edinburgh’s Usher Hall, scene of many important events
during the annual International Festival of Music and Drama.
Around the upper part of the Albert Hall and below its great glass dome
is a frieze symbolical of the arts, sciences and manufactures. The cost of
construction was met partly by the sale of the boxes and stalls, which still
command high prices.
As is only appropriate, the organ m the Albert Hall is one of the largest
in existence, and the hall has accommodation for a choir of 1000 and an
orchestra of 200. Here, many famous choirs such as the Royal Choral
Society perform oratorios and other works in their annual series of concerts.
The Royal Albert Hall is the scene each summer (about the end of July
to the middle of September) of the ever-popular Promenade Concerts, founded
by the late Sir Henry Wood well over half-a-century ago. So popular are
these concerts that young and old alike frequently queue all night outside the
Hall in order to be sure of gaining admittance the following day. In the
course of each Promenade Season almost the entire repertoire of the
orchestral classics is performed, together with many modern works, and it is
to these concerts that many young music-lovers owe their first acquaintance with
the great composers.


IiOOKHUNTEH, Box 2671, G.r.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you--fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
FROM PATERSON TO CAMPBELL
It is only about 40 miles across
country from Binalong, where “Banjo”
Paterson rode round his sheep, to
Wells, near Canberra, where David
Campbell rides round his; and, the
more so since Campbell occasionally
uses some of Paterson’s heroes as a
kind of bush-mythology, it is hardly
surprising that one should see some
kind of link between them.
Thinking chiefly of such memorable
crystallisations of bush-atmosphere and
bush-legend as “The Stockman,”
“Winter Stock-route” and “Harry
Pearce” —
The leaders felt his whip. It did
Me good to hear old Harry swear,
And in the heat of noon it seemed
His bullocks walked on air.
Suspended in the amber sky.
They hauled the wool to Gundagai—
I remember writing of David
Campbell’s first book, “Speak with the
Sun,” that it was “more Australian
than any verse written in this country
since ‘Banjo’ Paterson.”
That remains true of his new book,
The Miracle of Mullion Hill (Angus
and Robertson). There is no other
Australian poet so directly in touch
with the central tradition of the life
of the land—of sheep and cattle and
stockmen. I don’t think any other
Australian poet—let alone a writer
overseas —could have observed that
“The shed is slabbed with shimmer.”
But in the best poems of “The
Miracle of Mullion Hill,” the opening
set of lyrics, one does not think of
Paterson, stockmen or the hot summer.
The authentic Australian countryside
is still there, most beautifully evoked;
but because Campbell happens to be
dealing with snow, snowgums and
moonlight, a cold and solitary world,
the emphasis is thrown more on his
personal vision of life, and his artistry
as a lyrist. “Harry Pearce,” like
Judith Wright’s “Bullocky,” called up
an Australian legend; “Ariel” in the
new book calls up the eternal spirit of
delight moving through the universe:—
Frost and snow, frost and snow:
The old ram scratches with a
frozen toe
At silver tussocks in the payable
mist
And stuffs his belly like a treasure-
chest.
His tracks run green up the moun-
tainside
Where he throws a shadow like a
storm-cloud’s hide ;
He has tossed the sun in a fire of
thorns,
And a little bird whistles between
his horns.
“Sweet-pretty-creature! ” sings the
matchstick bird,
And on height and in chasm his
voice is heard ;
Like a bell of ice or the crack of
frost
It rings in the ears of his grazing
host.
“Sweet-pretty-creature! ” While all
is still
As the bird on the ram on the frozen
hill,
O the wagtail warms to his tiny art
And glaciers move through the great
beast’s heart.
Some of Campbell’s lyrics later in
the book are bare or forced; some
are far too much in the manner, of
Yeats; but the best of them are
exquisite. The whole opening group
—“Ariel,” “The End of Exploring,”
“Snowgums,” “Night Sowing” with its
lovely soft music—could well become
permanent anthology-pieces.
It would be absurd to discuss these
in relation to Paterson’s balladry. But
there is also in “The Miracle of
Mullion Hill” a set of narratives in
which, while wisely not attempting to
revive the bush-ballad style, Campbell
comes very close to Paterson’s territory.
There is “The Westing Emu,” in
which, though the story is weak and
inconclusive, there are such richly
authentic bits of observation as:—
Ah, Christmas Day when Christian
men
Sit in their braces reading papers ;
When private-bars are full by ten
And babies howl in wet diapers ...
There is “The Speewah Picnics,”
taking too long and complicated a
journey to reach its small final
anecdote, but still full of verve, and
with the same vividness in its bush-
pictures —the blackboy who “owns the
whole wide continent” or the outback
racecourse: —
The course? A circle on the plain
(A single tree keeps watch for rain),
Two iron sheds marked Men and
Women,
And full three thousand souls and
vermin.
And, by far the best of the set, clear
and direct in its story pnd, if
unashamedly improbable, delightfully
convincing within its own terms as a
fantasy, there is the title-poem about
the wicked wood-and-water man who
mistook a lyrebird for a churchbell and
was converted by the terrifying appari-
tion of an old hermit-ram.
But here again Campbell parts
company with Paterson: into regions of
lyric poetry at once higher and lighter
than the ballads. He has, in fact, taken-
over the wonderfully direct narrative
style of Burns’s “Tam o’ Shanter,” with
a hint or two from the Australian
balladists, and made it something
wholly his own: a humorous fantasy
iridescent as a Christmas-beetle’s wing
with the green and gold of the bush,
perfectly balanced in its unique mixture
of comedy and lyricism: —
He heard high up on Mullion Hill
The chiming of another bell,
A bell that trembled in the hush
Like winter water through the bush ;
And then, as if the mountain spoke,
From orchid-tongues and granite
rock,
There burst a litany of praise . . .
There seem to me to be great possi-
bilities in narratives of this kind: possi-
bilities which, in its own terms, the
title-poem indeed fulfils. Any such
poem, with a story strong, compact
and direct enough, could be as memor-
able as “Tam o’ Shanter” or, for that
matter —and who nowadays can create
legends like Paterson? —“The Man
From Ironbark.” If they are “rhymed
jokes,” as one reviewer has described
them, so is Chaucer.
So, too, are there the most interesting
possibilities in the narrative of “The
Golden Cow” in which (as he has also
done in some of his shorter poems)
Campbell has made a departure into
the poetry of the city—the fashionable
world of the nightclubs; its sophisti-
cated inhabitants, their amours and
their difficulties: —
“Women,” said Flamm. “Now take
the wife —
Women! How fragile and how
charming
Their curls and lashes and disarming
Contours and declivities!
Enough to knock you to your
knees;
But marry them and take them
home —
As well loose tigers in your room!”
Dropping away as it does with a
quip and a fight that fails to eventuate,
“The Golden Cow” needs a better end-
ing. It does not really prove its point
that “O’Malley was finished as a lover.”
But for all that it is a most impressive
piece of work —or of fun —catching,
without imitation, exactly the tone of
the first and best canto of Byron’s “Don
Juan”: fresh, gay, Rabelaisian and free
from the rancor and morbidity that
disfigure so much contemporary satire.
It would greatly have surprised—and
pleased—“ Banjo” Paterson.
Douglas Stewart.
Cannibals Interpreted
As one born in the west of Queens-
land when it was so wild that the
simple savage therein went about with-
out trousers if he could and still
organised expeditions to steal other
people’s wives, I go green with envy
when I pick up one of those learned
volumes which come out every few
months and in which foreigners exhibit
the naked mainsprings of the aboriginal
soul and intellect. Jens Bjerre’s
Cannibals and Aborigines (Michael
Joseph), translated from the Swedish
by Estrio Bannister, for instance.
I romped with abos, was whacked
for repeating their salty humor in the
English tongue, have camped with
them in later years, could speak to
them fairly fluently, think with them
and laugh with them as a boy. But
never have they offered me the intimacy
which they seem to fling at Nor-
wegians, Germans, English Ph.Ds.,
prospective or otherwise, and even
peripatetic young ladies. Neither,
indeed, have I ever found them capable
of expressing complicated metaphysical
thoughts, or of explaining in great
detail totemic relationships which they
reveal with intricacy, not to say
scholarly clarity, to anybody and every-
body who happens to be working on a
thesis or a book to astonish the
denizens of Uppsala or Camperdown.
I must say that. I have never tried
to discuss his soul with a blackfellow.
The very thought of doing so would
make the bravest heart quail if the
investigation had to be conducted in
pidgin; still more so in native language
in which —this is a bit of Pitta-Pitta —
a simple sentence like “Hunting
possums, I broke my arm,” is apt to
come out as “Tinnapulli-’nga-ena
kulli-na poondamulle-ka nunja.”
True, the abos whom Mr. Jens
Bjerre consorted with —armed with the
modern impedimenta of anthropologists
from alpha to omega, from camera to
tape-recorder—were not Pitta-Pittas, of
whom few, if any, are left, but Cen-
tralians with an even more complicated
tongue. But Mr. Bjerre was able to
communicate with them all right with
the help of an interpreter with whom
he himself communed in what seems
to be a highly specialised pidgin of
his own —a sort of New Guinea-Town-
Like-Alice lingua-franca, of which he
gives a specimen:—
Jimmie, you talk along men and
women. No be afraid. The moon
he come back lik lik time. Him come
back soon. He know.
Armed with observing eyes and this
strange dialect, “and the small
vocabulary I had picked up, reinforced
by the lessons I had had at the mission
school at Yendumu,” Mr. Bjerre went
among the Centralian primitives and
was soon chockfull of remarkable and
original information touching such
matters as “the dingoes, the small
desert wolves,” and the well-handled
boomerang [which] can cut through the
legs of a running ostrich.” By the
time he reaches Chapter 111 of his book
he is able to put up the heading “I
Become a Member of the Tribe: The
Mathematical Marriage System.” He
discovered that: —
The rituals of the Australian
aborigines are so involved and
obscure that scientists who have
studied them for many years are
confronted with complicated mathe-
matical conundrums; yet when
these are at last solved they turn
out to be unexpectedly logical.
He has it all down pat. Almost
every night he “used to sit for an hour
with Jimmie, the pidgin interpreter,
surrounded by the old men of the
tribe,” those shy survivals who “are
not negroes” but of “Indo-European or
Eurasian origin,” a people which
migrated from Asia 10,000 or 20,000
years ago and “have always refused to
accept civilisation and have with-
drawn deeper and deeper into the
desert where no white man can
survive.” And so he “experienced
many remarkable and incomprehens-
ible things, including some savage
ceremonies of witchcraft and exor-
cism,” and “learned at last to make
some contact with their minds.”
After which, like Alexander, he
yearned for fresh worlds to conquer
and set out in Chapter VI for New
Guinea, there to unravel the native
mysteries of the regions of the Kuku-
kukus, the Mt. Hagen-Goroka and
Sepik regions, on which he does not
throw much fresh light, though his
tale is interesting enough and will get
some good laughs from the noble
savages of the New Guinea Administra-
tion who dwell in those parts.
New Guinea seems to be a wild,
spine-chilling place, witness some
chapter headings: —'
My First Encounter with the
Kukukuku Cannibals ; We Catch a
Murderer ; Uncanny Cannibalism ,
The Children Stone the Prisoners to
Death; The Chant of Death-
Smoking the Corpses; The Skele-
tons of the Mountain Top —A
Warrior with an Arrow in His
Stomach; Tribal War Halts the
Journey—Love Ceremonies ; Witch-
craft and Superstition —Twentyfour
Hours in Paradise ; The South Sea
Girls Tickle Our Chins ; The Blood-
sucking Leeches ; Two White
Officials Murdered by Natives —
Malaria.
Naturally it ends up with a chapter
headed “In Hospital at Madang.”
But not before the author had
collected with his cameras some very
fine photographs both of Centralian
and New Guinea natives.
El Verdugo.
Dame Mabel Brookes
Everyone can’t live the high life, and
in having Dame Mabel Brookes to live
it for them, as may be seen from the
account she has rendered in Crowded
Galleries (Heinemann), the people of
Melbourne have been fortunate.
Great-granddaughter of an East India
Company agent who was purveyor to
Napoleon at St. Helena and later first
Colonial Treasurer of N. S. Wales
(and with a guitar in a rosewood case,
a present from Napoleon, and some
of Napoleon’s china to prove it), Dame
Mabel grew up in a South Yarra
mansion, where her playmates included
little R. G. Casey, shared a daily morn-
ing governess at Government House
with the child of the Lieutenant-
Governor and, backed by an accumu-
lation of wealth that included a small
slice of Melbourne City, was presented
at the Court of King Edward, looked
over Paris, skated at St. Moritz and
inspected Egypt before coming back
to meet Norman Brookes, who had
grown-up about a mile away from her
home, and was now tennis-champion
of the world. They were married in
1911: —
There were ten bridesmaids, and
Mother had the lace of my veil made
in Venice.
Bom with a silver spoon in her
mouth. Dame Mabel entered auspici-
ously upon the career of a great-lady
with the Davis Cup as a temporary
wedding-present, and used it in those
early years as a flower-bowl. That’s
grandeur for you; but there was still
a lot to be learned among the kings,
queens, dukes, etc., who clustered
round her world-champion husband
when she was with him in England and
on the Riviera before the First World
War. Balfour, for instance, con-
tributed:—
Politics, people and sport were the
medium of our intimacy, and a
careless observation from me auto-
matically brought a comment and
correction that made one careful of
another lapse. He was a purist.
With womanly discretion she omits
the subject of this Balfour declaration
and continues: —
Once in a box at Wimbledon he
rose from his chair in the row
behind the King and Queen and
came to a vacant seat near me,
further back. “I cannot stand it
any longer,” he muttered. “That
woman won’t stop talking.” Mrs.
Asquith had been sitting beside him,
and her habit was to turn her sharp-
pointed chin until it almost touched
her neighbor’s shoulder and keep up
a constant low-voiced chatter.
Then she had to cope with the
insolence of fashionable Edwardian
women; she a little dowdily-dressed
Australian (her husband’s father
thought young men shouldn’t have too
o Continued on page 35)


SYDNEY’S LARGEST RANGE OF SHOES
a TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'' '
nthony Bordens’
m
GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET
'
n<
A
Ilk'
mSBml
■
.
m
m
*, . 1
■>
■^S
: ‘
an
■>’ ■',i
Townsman
Cameron
Fleet Streeter
nm
Anthony Horderns’ are proud to add still another world-famous name to already the biggest range of men’s footwear
brands in Australia. “Saxone” Scottish-style shoes are craftsmen built with the same attention of fine
details, scientific fit and modern styling as the originals. Every pair of “Saxone” shoes
made in Australia reflects the. tradition of 100 years of fine Scottish
shoemaking. 15 styles for business and casual wear.
jggpgSSa.
-
H
I
o:.
iH
kJI
•. .
m
V'3
S
- 8
M
}■■
..
Si
H
-
i
■
■m a
■
SK
m
m
Above right : Fleet Streeter,” in crushed
grain calf, fawn and rich brown, featuring
the 'light as a feather’ aircelite soles 122/6
Black or tan calf with leather soles 126/-..
Above centre: “Cameron," brogue with
heavy punching double decker leather
soles and heels, 130/-. With rubber golf
soles and heels, priced at 126/-.
Above left: “Townsman,” with stitched
cap, in black or tan calf. Fractional
fittings. Sizes 5 to 11. Priced at 112/6.
Left : "Strand,” plain vamp, five hole
tie derby in black or tan calf. 112/6 pair.
Right: “Bowls-Master,” in lightweight,
non-slip wedged aircelite, in tan calf.
Fractional fittings. Priced at 122/6 pair.
4:
££*■*'+* ■
■ '
si
i
m
P©ST YOUR ORDERS TO BOX 2718, G.P.0., SYDNEY. POSTAGE EXTRA. TELEPHONE
*•


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 4007
Wednesday, November 28, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man*’
Directors:
H. K. Prior • David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
A NEW UNITED NATIONS
THE farce of the United Nations ran through
another scene during the week as those lovers of
legality and democracy, the delegates of Cuba,
moved a resolution demanding the withdrawal of
Soviet troops from Hungary and the ending there
of mass deportations.
Cuba is governed by a regime which achieved
office in 1952 through a military coup d’etat—in
fact, through force as illegal as that which kept
the prevjtous Government in office. It is now, of
course, like the numerous other Governments of
the same sort which form the corpus of the United
Nations body, all very severe about the occupation-
of-Suez operation Of the British and French, and at
the same time ready to attack anybody on moral
grounds if the United States approves.
The fact that it took the lead in the Hungarian
matter would suggest that it had assumed the moral
leadership of U.N. The only challenge to that
leadership was from India.
When India obtained its freedom and separa-
tion from Pakistan, and the supposedly bloodthirsty
British oppressors went out, it was an occasion of
mutual mass-slaughter among the citizens of the
two newly-“liberated” Oriental States, and India
clamped-down on part of Kashmir. No doubt, in
the face of Indian policy in that matter, Nehru is
somewhat embarrassed in dealing with the moral
issue of Hungary, though he feels no scruples about
lambasting the British.
Indonesia’s intrusion into the debate to support
the Indians is about as cynical as anything that has
happened. Its Government rules by the tommy-gun.
Its moral standards are indicated by the recent
illegal and brazenly purposeful trials by biased
judges of Netherlands residents who had fallen into
its hands. Then there is Burma, tom like Indonesia
by violent political schism.
This purview of the moral leadership of U.N.
is no more engaging than that of its operations in
Egypt, where it is trying to placate Nasser and the
Russians to the utmost, to oust the British and
French, to subsidise Nasser’s wanton and illegal
blockage of the canal, and to do no more, in fact,
than supply him with an international force of
feeble strength and complete futility and with a
certificate that he has triumphed over the two
countries from which Egypt has drawn its ability to
keep its population alive;
It poses the question of where the power and
might of the real holders of the world’s destiny are
seated these days, when the initiative in such a
crisis is in the hands of these. Of the great Powers
of the “United” Nations, Russia stands sullen* a
bloodyhanded colossus knowing no law save its
own jungle law, its every move in the world scene
marked by snarling hate, duplicity and insult
directed at those who are willing to receive it into
the comity of nations with friendliness and
tolerance, as has been proved all too well during
the months of the soft-war. Against the weak who
resisl it its methods are those, of the enraged bear,
utterly destructive, ruthless, vengeful and inhuman.
Where is the voice of the great United States,
the dream democracy, the mother of modern
idealism which persuaded itself that it came out of
a century-old isolation to save the world, though
actually it was propelled into the world arena by its
sense of self-preservation?
One would have thought that its voice would
have given the lead, since it has always been ready
to promote its leadership—indeed, in joint opera-
tions, military and economic, it has refused to work
under any other, even though sister-nations have
sometimes been able to provide leaders who far
transcend its own in ability and experience. It
might well have sponsored the Hungarian resolu-
tion and given it force.
Mr. Hammarskjold has been behaving in Cairo
more like Nasser’s butler than a policeman. It
seems even that Nasser may be allowed to
nominate who shall be in the United Nations police-
force /feeble as it is) and he has banned the only
country which could possibly put real teeth into
it—Canada.
Britain and France, of course, have their views
and have expressed them freely in the U.N.
Assembly. So has Australia through its External
Affairs Minister, Mr. Casey, in person. But they
might as well have refrained. The moral outlook
of Cuba, Indonesia and Burma prevails.
Some of those who turn asidp from the fallen
giants must look back a little uneasily as they watch
the great U.N. experiment disintegrating for want
of power and will to enforce its edicts. They must
rememtfer what happened between 1946 and 1948,
when the British Government was unavailingly
tenacious in its efforts to have effect given to
Article 43 of the United Nations Charter, which
calls on members to provide armed forces to the
Security Council for the maintenance of peace and
security. Had it not been blocked in its efforts,
as it was blocked again in similar moves in 1950
and 1954 (each time by Moscow and its helot
nations in the main) there would have been no
Suez incident, no question of Israel’s invasion of
Egypt —perhaps no attack on Hungary.
The most regrettable factors in the present
situation, apart from the inability of the great
Powers to get together and lead, is the division of
the English-speaking nations and of the United
Kingdom itself and its tizzy press and Labor
party, large sections of which have been hypnotised
by foreign propaganda into a condition in which
they believe it to be their duty always to proclaim
an enemy or a critic right and their own country (or
that part of it which does not come under their
own domination) treacherous, dishonest and wrong.
The cleavage, obviously produced by increas-
ing American desire for place and power in the
world, between the United States and the British
Commonwealth over the question of oil and the
Middle East, is doubly regrettable. It is clear that
United States public opinion resents as almost
immoral any moves to dictate regional policy which
do not emanate from Washington and is determined
to meet such moves with reprisals.
The fact is that the only world bloc on the
side of civilisation which could exert a permanent
and growing influence on world policy, and a moral
authority on world political developments, would
be a united bloc of the white English-speaking
nations. They constitute the real hard kernel of
civilisation and the source from which emanates
the bulk of the humanitarian impulses and
scientific and technical inventions upon which
progress and peaceful evolution are founded.
They are, and have been for a century, steadily-
growing forces. Even their outposts, a few years
ago negligible, are achieving a growth which in
fifty years must reorientate the world of civilisa-
tion. Within less than that time Canada, with a
territory as large as that of Europe, a climate as
invigorating as that of Sweden, and natural
resources beyond the dreams of older countries,
must become one of the four or five leading nations
of the world, and Australia will not be far behind.
It is unthinkable that these and the U.K. and
U.S.A. should grow up in conflict with each other
and with other English-speaking white nations. All
have enough in common to create a main thread of
moral policy on which to hang the power to look
after themselves and each other mutually, while
leaving the Asian Communist-influenced world to
look after itself and find out by experiment how
well it can get along without the help of the Anglo-
Saxons and their relatives in the Latin and Germanic
regions.
We may have a moral obligation to feed and
westernise the Burmese and the Indonesians and
to bow to the consciences of the Cubans; put it is
not a first obligation.
In Support of the Parish Pump
LOCAL-GOVERNMENT in Australia varies in
detail from State to State, but the general pattern
is that the ratepayers of a town or district elect a
municipal, shire or district council and that the
aldermen or councillors choose one of their own
number as mayor or president. Aldermen and
councillors receive no remuneration; an expense
allowance is generally granted to mayors and
presidents. On the whole, the system works well.
It places the running of a municipality in the hands
of men who live in the district, who are well known
there and who have a direct interest in its welfare.
Municipal affairs do not call for brilliant
theorists; the qualities sought in aldermen are
honesty, sincerity and commonsense. Novelists and
others often scoff at the parish-pump politics and
narrow outlook of councils, ignoring the fact that in
the very nature of things the ambit of local-govern-
ment must be a restricted field. It is this by
definition. The job of a council is to rhind its own
business within the limits defined by the local-
government legislation of the States.
In most States local-governing bodies have
been able to function very successfully without
the intrusion of party-politics. This has been all
to the good. Men of strongly opposed views on
national politics have been able to sit together on
a council and discuss local matters purely on their
merits as local matters, without having to
subordinate them to the twists and turns of party-
policy laid down by outsiders to serve purposes
quite unconnected with local-government.
Until a few years ago this desire to keep
party-politics out of municipal affairs was universal
in Australia, but unfortunately this is no longer the
case. The “Labor” party has deliberately set out
to bring local-government under the control of the
party-machine so that it can be used as an
instrument of policy. The desired objective is a
system of paid aldermen, taking their orders, as
do State “Labor” Governments, from the executive
of the party.
In New South Wales the Cahill Government
has gone a long way towards achieving this; it has
progressively reduced the say of ratepayers in civic
affairs, while leaving them, as before, the privilege
of paying the whole cost. The franchise had long
ago been liberalised to include not only the owner
of land and property but, also, in the case of rented
homes, the occupier. This had been done'not only
in New South Wales but also in most of the other
States. In 1947 the N.S.W. “Labor” Government
extended the definition of occupier to include any
person enrolled on the Parliamentary roll, even,
presumably, if he occupied only a cave at Bondi
or a park-seat in the Domain. The next step was
to make voting compulsory, with fines for omis-
sions. Concurrently with this came the great
amalgamation craze, out of which emerged Greater
Sydney, Greater Newcastle, Greater Wollongong.
Councils were wiped-out or merged with others
without any consultation with the ratepayers, and,
in most cases, against their expressed wish.
During the lifetime of the last Cain Govern-
ment in Victoria an attempt was made to copy the
Cahill exaihple and establish a Greater" Melbourne.
The suburban councils raised a storm of protest,
and the scheme came to nothing. Similar moves are
being made at the present time in two other States.
In South Australia, where “Labor” is in Opposi-
tion, the procedure adopted is apparently
innocuous; it takes the form of a private bill intro-
duced by Opposition-leader O’Halloran, urging the
appointment of a committee to make recommenda-
tions “for the better administration of the affairs
of the metropolitan area.” But in the course of
the debate “Labor” members made it quite clear
that what they were aiming at was the elimination
of most of the municipalities around the South
Australian capital by absorbing them into a
Greater Adelaide.
„> The Westralian move is also in the early
stages. Amendments to the Local Government Act
provide for adult suffrage and for election of Shire
Council (formerly Road Board) presidents by
popular vote instead of by their fellow-councillors.
In explaining the latter change the Minister in
charge of the bill made the extraordinary statement
that it would “raise the president to a position of
dignity, honor and leadership which he could not
enjoy as the creature of members of the council.”
He justified adult suffrage in local-government by
saying that as all residents had to comply with the
by-laws of the council, they should therefore have
the right to elect the persons who made the by-laws.
To an interjector who asked whether in that case
all residents should also pay rates and taxes, he
replied loftily that “the dignity of human life
should be accepted as superior to the rights of
property in determining the methods of election.”
If “creatures” and “dignity” are the issue,
Westralians and South Australians should take a
good look at the Sydney City Council, where
they’ll see “Labor” local-government policy in full
flower —perfume and all. Sydney City Council is
an example of amalgamation; eight suburban
councils —all of them “Labor” —were absorbed in
1948 in order to swamp and capture control of the
city proper. The City Council has adult, compulsory
suffrage to ensure that all the regimented faithful
will put their numbers in the right squares. It has
a Lord Mayor elected by popular vote —after being
preselected by the A.L.P. executive. It has party-
politics, with a “Labor” Town Hall caucus making
all the decisions in private session before each
council meeting and presenting them cut-and-dried
for routine endorsement by the council.
Three years ago, when a party split made it
seem likely that the wrong brand of “Labor” men
might be nominated, the Cahills abolished the old
ward-system and brought in proportional-represen-
tation, the executive nominating a team of “Labor”
trusties. First-fruits of this —apart from the Press
Gag Bill to stifle talk of graft—was the election of
two Communist aldermen. The later result is
evident in this year’s council election, on Saturday.
The election will be straight-out party-politics. In
addition to the “Labor” squad of 15, Rugby Union
teams will also be fielded by the Democratic
“Labor” party, the Liberals, the Civic Reform party,
the Lang “Labor” party and the Communists.
Independents and oddments will bring the number
of candidates past the hundred-mark. Twenty
aldermen are required. Running true to form.
“Labor” has come out with electoral bribes; it
returned it promises to reduce the rates and increase
amenities for the aged.
Sydney can certainly teach Adelaide and Perth
a lot about municipal politics, but the value of its
example is not in showing what path to follow but
which ones to avoid.


THE SHEIK OF ARABY


PLAIN ENGLISH
Two Hours to Remember
There was never a moment that the
opening-day of the Olympics at the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground was not a shade
too close to the heart of an Australian.
It was an emotional two hours, despite
the reminder above the scoreboard—
The Olympic movement tends to bring together
in a radiant union
All the qualities which guide mankind to
perfection—
and, to face the facts, the terror was that
the reception of the Hungarians and the
Russians might be tempered more than
noticeably by the popular feeling about
their masters. But it wasn’t. Like the
rest of the daydt was just on perfect.
The pallid, liquid skies over Melbourne
had cleared long before breakfast, and
the superior seat-holders, like this
Bulletin correspondent, found a superb
setting when they arrived leisurely, an
hour before the Duke of Edinburgh was
due, and beheld in a flawless arena
Services bands in full uniform marching
in intricate and arresting patterns to their
own inspiring music, delighting that
typical Australian summer crowd of tens
of thousands in blue and white.
'The Duke arrived on the dot at 3 p.m.
He was in the Navy, and he looked
unusually lonely sitting in the back seat
of the car alone and Without his Queen.
The driver coasted round the centre
running-track slowly, and the Duke’s
gestures, as the tiers cheered and waved
in turn, were hearty and not remotely
regal, and would not have amused Queen
Victoria. (He had, of course, asked for
a coats-off reception on a sporting
occasion.)
The car drew up opposite the Royal
Box, the door was opened by a startled
Boy Scout, and he was greeted by the
Prime Minister, looking—to face the facts
again—tut-tuttishly rotund and unaffected
by international crises; and by Avery
Brundage and Billy Kent Hughes, inter-
national and local Olympic chairman
respectively.
Then the Duke disappeared into the
V.I.P. lounge in the members’ stand, and
he was a minute or two late reappearing
in the Royal Box. No doubt he had to
listen to some windy speeches. When he
did, Kent Hughes began to talk from the
centre of the ground (too long), and Avery
Brundage, who followed, invited, in a
very few words, the Duke to open the
Games, and the Duke did so, also in a
very few words. . (Australian speeches are
unbearably long, and Kent Hughes’s was
brief in comparison with the Archbishop
of Melbourne’s, which came towards the
close.)
Greece, appositely, was the first nation
to march out on the arena, and it had a
warm reception ; the others followed in
alphabetical order,, but with Australia
last. The Czechs, reputed to be most
correct and bureaucrat-minded, waved
unselfconsciously in reply to the applause.
As the first team to doff their hats to
the Duke passed the saluting-base, and
their standard-bearer dipped his flag, the
crowd quickly appreciated it. This sensi-
tivity so early in the pageant made you
more apprehensive than ever of what was
to come.
The hat-raising, of course, became
frequent as the smaller countries, like
Bermuda, Hong Kong and others, passed
with the Union Jacks as the corner of
their flags. There was an unexpectedly
warm demonstration for Formosa-China ;
then" came the Hungarians.
The reception was rousing, and pro-
longed, but it was not embarrassing, and
when the Russians appeared towards the
end of the 69-nation march, the young
athletes got a heartening hand ; and they
were the only team, when the Australians
marched near to them on the centre of
the arena, to turn round and, in turn,
clap their rivals and hosts.
The Outer gave an uninhibited roar as
the host-nation entered. The pitch of
excitement now, near the concluding
stage, was high, and there was about
them, although their spectator sports-
wear was cut very much on the same
lines as almost all those of the teams
which had gone before, an indefinable
familiarity, as there has been with the
New Zealanders. The magic contact of
kinship, no doubt.
The colors, as the teams stood in
national ranks in the arena before the
Duke, were kaleidoscopic ; five-thousand
pigeons flew into the air; the Olympic
flag ran up the mast; the young cham-
pion, Ron Clarke, ran into the ground
with the torch and lit the flame on the
peristyle; and the magnificent show
convinced you that this, by thundet, had
been put on by a mature and trustworthy
nation.
“This is the third opening-ceremony
I’ve seen and easily the best,” said a
grey-haired pressman ; so if there was a
pair of dry Australian eyes among the
100,000-odd down there, damn them!
Crossroads of Westminster
Sir Anthony Eden’s illness and sudden
departure for Jamaica for three weeks
seems to mean that he is on the way out
of 'an office for which he was never suited.
It is his second illness within weeks, and
he handled most of the Suez crisis fresh
from hospital.
Throughout Eden’s long period in
politics he has been a states-
man of the “talk” rather than
“do” variety. He has loved negotia-
tions. His policies and activities have
been built round cliches and visionary
devices like the League of Nations and
United Nations.
Only when he was submerged under
the personality of Churchill did he appear
to have the required toughness in his
composition.
His recent actions are something of a
puzzle which only history will solve. His
sudden arming and shouts of defiance
when Nasser seized the canal were most
un-Edenlike; his dilly-dallying the
moment the United Nations and the
Americans said “Boo!” to him were more
in character. His later descent with the
French on the canal-zone was incon-
sistent with his character. The yells of his
“victim” were drowned by the Vocal,
indignation of the supporters of his own
idealism. His cut-off of operations was
again more characteristic. He reacted
once again to his natural instincts and the
voice of U.N. He has since had the
appearance of a galley-slave chained to
his oar and acting under the whip.
It seems natural that he should be
replaced. The invasion of the Suez area
ahead of the Israeli advance was inevit-
able and right, seeing what was known
about Communist plans. To that opinion
nearly all the world, save the plotters, is
coming round. But it is the sort of situa-
tion in which only firmness and con-
sistency can win. And, having acted, he
has since been neither consistent nor very
firm.
At the last Conservative-party
conference held a few months ago
R. A. Butler, who had taken
the Privy Seal and Leadership of the
House of Commons at the beginning of
the year, was the outstanding figure, and
Harold Macmillan, the new Chancellor
of the Exchequer, has become influential
beyond anybody else, except Lord Salis-
bury, who apparently has been devoting
himself to the plans for the reform of the
House of Lords which are now announced
to be complete, though unlikely to
produce any revolution.
There is a big chance that there will
soon be new leadership, and that the
United Kingdom will *face a general
election within a few months to give the
electors an opportunity to endorse Gov-
ernment policies and Constitutional
reforms if any. It is a crossroads moment
for the U.K. Ministry.
Never since 1939 has the U.K. been
more in need of a steady hand at the
helm.
Olympic Boss
Looking back over the last years in
which Melbourne was preparing for the
Olympics, it is impossible to escape the
conclusion that Avery Brundage’s criti-
cisms, irritating as they have been many
times, were not merely well-intentioned,
but effective.
His scoldings have been blunt and his
praise sparing, and at one stage in 1953
he earnestly advised the officials to bow
tneir way out of the Games. In retro-
spect it is apparent that this has been his
method of encouraging Melburnians to
get on with the job: and, fortunately,
the blasts had ended by the time the Suez
crisis had blown-up and the U.S. was
yelling discouragement to Britain and
France.
Brundage, who will be 69 next month,
used to be known as the “iron athlete,”
and still walks a smart five miles every
day, was 25 years chairman of the Ameri-
can Olympic Association —he took over
from General MacArthur —and since he
has been chairman of the International
Olympic Committee has become the best-
hated man in athletics.
He is a self-made millionaire, who set
out for himself in the construction busi-
ness and succeeded, and he now owns
hotels in Chicago and California. He
still looks like a ball of muscle, and he
talks like it, too:
Up to the last minute of the Games
he was throwing a discus at protruding
heads, lastly (possibly) in the long game
he has played, at professionals in amateur
sport, politicians and journalists.
But, once the Games were put on suc-
cessfully—"’“excellently organised and
wonderfully staged”—no one has been
more generous in his praise of Mel-
bourne’s efforts than Brundage.
"Anti-colonialism"
Mr. Casey’s speech in the United Nations
Assembly on the question of West New
Guinea, which always crops up at these
meetings, serves notice on the world that
Australia, as well as the United Kingdom,
has become tired of the “anti-colonial”
cult which has been using its slogan as a
hammer to break-up the British Com-
monwealth over the past 10 years.
Invented in Moscow, the idea was
adopted by the American press and
accepted by the Attlee and Chifley-Evatt
Governments.
These, with a large-handed Socialist
generosity, were eager to break pieces off
the Commonwealth, hand them over to
local “Governments” which often ruled,
and still rule, only by brute force over
partially illiterate and savage'peoples, and
leave the areas at the mercy of
adventurers, international and otherwise.
A “free” Egypt, a “free” Burma and
a “free” Indonesia are all samples of
where this policy leads, and the outcome
of the “free” Indian experiment has yet
to be assessed. The assessment-will come
when Nehru disappears from the scene.
It will be hard to find another personality
both so engaging and so chameleonlike.
The “United States is obviously, also, a
tacit supporter of the scheme. This, like
its attitude on Suez, is part of its policy
of using the “anti-colonial” issue to
outbid Russia and at the same time obtain
a corner in world oil, thus making the rest
of the civilised world a series of oil-
colonies of the United States.
Mr. Casey did a t service to the Com-
monwealth when he made his outspoken
speech and put the whole matter in
proper perspective:
Take-off the disguises from the magic
words “self-determination” and “anti-
colonialism” and you will often find bare-
faced national interest. It is surprising that
in most cases where anti-colonialism is
invoked to justify claims, too little account
is taken of the provisions' of the U.N.
charter, which safeguards the interests of
the indigenous inhabitants.
The hard fact, indeed, is that most of the
freeing of cplonial peoples has been done
by pressure from Moscow and Washing-
ton, backing a few agitators rather than
whole populations, the bulk of which
often have had good cause to long for
the return of their orderly European
colonisers.
Dutch New Guinea is on the Australian
continental-shelf formation. It has been
under Dutch rule or trading-right since
1602. It is about twice the size of Vic-
toria and its inhabitants are not Indo-
nesians but, Papuan Melanoderms. The
capital, Hollandia, is on the Pacific Ocean
side. Its importance to the Netherlands
and Australia, as well as to Indonesia, is
that it is oil-producing—the wells are
operated by U.K.-Dutch-U.S. syndi-
cates. And despite the backing of the
Nehru-led South Asiatic countries for the
Indonesian claim, Indonesia has no more
right to it, on geographical, historical
or racial grounds, than it has to
equatorial Africa or the Northern
Territory.
Pat on the Back
“In the ACT”: Most Australians heard
the Duke of Edinburgh on the radio dur-
ing the Ministerial dinner in Canberra,
and rtiust have felt gratified at the praise
he gave to this country. He was delighted,
for example, at the energy, enthusiasm
and resources which we are putting into
the development of Papua, New Guinea,
New Britain and Manus, and the trouble
that we’re taking to guide and help their
people to a better standard of living. He
was inspired by what was being done
to develop the natural resources of the
Northern Territory and by the economic
and industrial possibilities of Australia
in general.
Then he went a good deal further, dis-
playing an insight which many Austra-
lians themselves lack into what Australia
is doing and what it may do. He was
astonished at the possibilities here of “the
whole art of living.” He believed that
our remoteness and isolation had com-
pelled us to develop every branch of our
life and culture for ourselves, and he
foresaw a unique and individual civili-
sation “which will rank with the greatest
the world has seen so far.” He found a
sense of certainty and purpose in the air
which would carry us along “in spite of
all the things which act as a built-in head-
wind.” . •
All this was pleasant hearing, even for
the great many Australians whom the
Duke acknowledged would think he was
talking nonsense. It was the kind of
speech which should set people striving
to prove that its assessments and predic-
tions were true, and to engender a proper
pride in the acknowledged fact that this
country “is a most important partner in
Western civilisation.” Coming from other
sources, the speech might have been
regarded as merely flattery. Coming from
the Duke of Edinburgh, who is not prone
to flatter people despite his tact, it can
be taken as a deserved pat on the back.
The U.S. in the Open
“Ek Dum”: The U.N. manoeuvres on
Suez in the earlier part of the week
crystallised on November 22, by which
time public opinion had hardened behind
the British Government in the U.K. and
it seemed certain that an unconditional
withdrawal of the British-French/ forces
would wreck the Government.
A curious United States propaganda
was being developed, which suggested
that the U.S. Intelligence, “using elec-
tronic computers,” had cracked the secret
codes of Britain, France and Israel and
had unearthed a conspiracy of a sinister
nature aimed at aggression. But there
was not so much as a word of official
U.S. support for this widely-circulated
suggestion.
On the day when this yarn burst the
bounds of rumor Mr. Hammarskjoeld
sent letters from the Governments
involved on Suez to the Assembly stating
the position: France had withdrawn a
third of her forces from the area ; the
U.K. had decided to make a token with-
drawal of one battalion, pending further
growth of the U.N. Emergency Force.
Israel had drawn back for varying
distances along its front in Egypt.
But each Government was firm that
it would not leave the zone until fully
satisfied that the U.N. Emergency Force
was effective and that it could carry out
the resolutions of the United Nations.
Britain’s intentions were; confirmed by
Mr. R. A. Butler, Leader of the House
of Commons. He added that the clearing
of the canal must be carried out with
as little quibbling as possible, and that
excellent progress had been made in clear-
ing the 25 miles occupied by the British
and French. (“We expect that by the end
of this week we shall have cleared a
channel of 25ft. draught and 65ft. beam
which will allow the passage of ships of
10,000 tons.”) The rest of the clearing
must be done by U.N., but Britain had
the best gear and excellent personnel
available.
Mr. Butler’s statement, it was reported,
had a “poor reception” in U.N.
Assembly, which adjourned on November
22 for a couple of days to give the
harassed delegates a chance to study the
situation.
To help them in their study a barrage
of propaganda flowed out of the United
States offices in Washington.
A “statesman who saw President
Eisenhower yesterday” (November 22)
told correspondents at a special briefing
that the United. States “had always held
that the U.K. and France had offended
against the principles of the U.N. charter
when they captured and occupied Port
Said,” and that while they maintained
troops in Egypt there was no chance of
the General Assembly approving a reso-
lution embodying a settlement.
Meanwhile, Russia was carrying on
its slaughter in Hungary with a free
hand. Not nearly the same determina-
tion, or any determination, was being
shown by the United States or anybody
else to oust its troops, despite the pious
resolutions. There were no firm demands
from the Asian-Africans or from the
State Department.
At the same time, both Moscow and
Nasser were threatening military action
if the “aggressors” of Suez did not get
out at once. Indeed, the United States
and the Russians and Nasser and the
Arab nations which make it a firm policy
that peace with Israel can be obtained
only by its destruction all have a common
objective and .common principles about
Egypt, but none about the piece ot
aggression and massacre in Hungary,
which a large portion of the United
Nations Assembly is prepared to forget
in its eagerness to humiliate the British.
On November 25, the U.N. Assembly
resumed its sittings and carried by 6:> to
5 the Afro-Asian resolution “censur-
ing” the British, French and Israelis tor
having failed to withdraw from the Lanai
Z °The five, to our credit, included with
the supposed “culprits” who under the
0 Continued on next pa§ e )


farcical United system are
allowed to.vote at their own trials, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. Canada and
South Africa were among 10 nations
which abstained from voting.
The United States is in a most
anomalous position. It refuses to treat
the British in good faith and to admit that
the Suez occupation was a counter to the
imminent danger of a Soviet take-over of
the Arab zone following the blotting-out
of Israel and the events which inevitably
would have followed.
At the same time Washington is taking
credit for discovering “grim evidence”
(which the British obviously had a month
ago) that Russia was, and is, whipping-
up trouble in the Middle East. The U.S. i?
examining the possibility of joining the
Baghdad Pact —which, of course, it would
then claim the right to dominate both as
to policy and management, with the
other nations tailing along behind the
State Department.
Nasser is expelling all British and
French subjects from Egypt within 10
days, presumably with the full approval
of Washington and Liberia. There are
13,000 of them, most with nowhere to
go and certainly with nothing to go with.
Nasser is allowing them to take £2O each.
The behavior of the United States has
done much to provide apparent material
confirmation of the insistent Communist
representation that American oil interests
seek to establish a world empire. Its
plan appears to be to use the U.N. to
buy Nasser out of the hands of the
U.S.jf.R., into whose hands Washington’s
policy over Aswan helped to fling him.
During the week ex-Premier Nagy and
all his suite who had been sheltering in
the Yugoslav Embassy in Budapest were
kidnapped and are reported to have been
sent to Moscow via Rumania, Respite the
fact that they emerged under safe-conduct.,
The stooge Government of Kadar is, how-
ever, not yet in full control.
The Yugoslav and Austrian borders of
Hungary are ringed with Soviet tanks and
infantry to seal-off escapes. Poland's
Communists, once safely back in their
own capital, have joined with Tito in
attacking Russian actions in Hungary, and
the Kremlin has made bitter attacks on
Tito, whom it accuses of trying to found
his own brand of Communism.
The position is stable only in the
continuance of ominous possibilities, the
more ominous in view of the division in
the Western world ; something at such a
crisis akin to madness and invitation to
the Russians to begin a world offensive.
POLITICAL POINTS
The oilmighty dollar!
• o
“Russia is frightened—and danger-
ous,” said Cardinal Gilroy on his return
from Rome. That could be as pithy a
summing-up as any. Most of us have
seen a snake in the same state of mind.
• •
Yalta, Potsdam —now what, Ike?
• •
“There’s a breathless hush in the close
tonight. ..” All the news that matters on
international affairs doesn’t seem to be
getting into print.
» e ®
The Postal Worker's’ Union has thought
twice about its plan to introduce the
“regulation strike” for a second time in
the middle "of the Olympic Games. Aus-
tralians are easygoing—they have put up
with one postal strike which would have
caused a nationwide riot in any other
country —but even with Australians one
can go too far. Business, commerce,
finance, industry, national prosperity—
all may be interrupted without much
danger to the interrupters. But agitators
interfere with sport at their peril!
• •
Wentworth Federal by-election may not
be such a walkover for the official
Liberals as it looked. Leslie Bury is to
have unendorsed Liberal rivals R. J.
Bartley, a municipal warhorse; Reg
Robson, brother of the former Leader of
the N.S.W. Opposition ; C. A. O. Sindel,
a taxation expert; and the Rev. A. W.
Laing. They form a battery of inde-
pendents who might easily combine to
defeat the official Liberal candidate if
his quality as a campaigner falls short
of his reputation. However, the betting
was still on Bury at the. moment of
writing.
« 0
The Liberal team for Sydney’s council
elections (led by C. L. Kyle, with Group-
Captain John Waddy for Lord Mayor) - '
promises to use the financial scalpel on
Sydney municipal expenditure. “Our
undertaking to call tenders from private
contractors and the City Engineer’s
Department will put it on its toes. If it
cannot match free-enterprise tenders, we
will cut back its activities proportion-
ately.” The Liberals promise to drop the
rate by ljd. to sid.
. . '
The Citizens’ Reform Association is
running H. Gordon Carter for Lord
Mayor, and its team includes Alderman
R. J. Bartley, W. (of John-
ston and Johnston), Canon Arrowsmith
and David Lloyd Jones. Carter promises
that by “strict adherence to businesslike
principles we will have more money for
urgently needed amenities and we may
even be able to reduce rates.”
• 0
The A.L.P. team is running Alderman
Jensen for Mayor in place of P. D. Hills,
but it is much the same old A.L.P. outfit
that has been eight years too long in
control of Sydney civic affairs.
• # ,
Form-guide for Saturday’s City Elec-
tions, as explained in the “Sydney
Herald”:
Jack Lang (15 candidates): “Don’t call us
a splinter-group. We are the real Labor
party.’?
Jack Thom (Democratic Labor leader):
“A.L.P.? That stands for anti-Labor Party
in our view.”
The A.L.P. was silentor perhaps it was
inarticulate: or perhaps it was not sure
whether it is still a party or only an
underground branch of the Communist
party.
• ' •
As his colleagues say admiringly of
Sydney’s Lord Mayor Pat Hills, since
the night of the fake-torch incident,
you’ve got to hand it to him!
0 0
“P.M.”: We have both a traitor and a
convert seeking the support of our elec-
torate on Dec. I—the former has deserted
to the other side, while the latter has
come over to us.
“At the conclusion of the visit to Moscow of
the Polish delegation headed by Mr. Gomulka,
which signed a new agreement with the Kremlin,
a Soviet communique stressed that the Polish
Government had done so ‘as an independent
sovereign State.’ ”
Gomulka, old palski,
Whether you shan’t or shallski
Is your choice; that’s clear as a bellski.
You have freedom of action;
Ain’t that satisfaction?
Now sign on this line here — or elski!
• •
Talk of a referendum on Section 92,
to permit adequate taxation of road-
hauliers, which would build and maintain
the highways, is regarded with some
reserve in Canberra. It is believed there
that current legal moves may make
unnecessary the hazards of a referendum
—and they would be hazards, even if
all the Premiers created a record by siding
with the Commonwealth in an appeal to
the voters for Constitutional alteration.
• •
Canadian reactions to the proposed
participation of Britain in a European
free-trade area have been cautious but
generally approving. Prime Minister St.
Laurent has said it should be possible to
surmount any difficulties, but has warned
against a partial development which
could result merely in creation of a
new system of iritro-European tariff
preferences that would interfere with
trade between Europe and other countries
FROM ONE FAKE TORCH TO ANOTHER
without achieving the results hoped to
follow full implementing of the plan. If
the proposals are adopted and success-
fully carried through, he says, by Britain
and nations of western Europe,
they should increase the economic strength
and of the peoples of that whole
great area and also their sense of solidarity
and common purpose even beyond the
economic field. Such a result could not fail
to be welcomed by Canadians, whose
security and cultural and political heritage,
as well as economic welfare, have / been,
and are, so closely linked with that part
of the world.
Australians will probably echo that
sentiment.
• ®
One of the Bolte Cabinet's effective
Acts, facilitating the registration of
alien doctors in Victoria, became pro-
ductive after six months’ wrangling when
the first six were approved by the Medical
Board —two Germans, a Russian, Pole,
Hungarian and Swiss. The ceremony of
registration was nicely timed and pub-
licised for the eve of the Olympic Games.
• •
Melbourne, which has become the least
self-conscious city in the nation about
pageantry, turned on a spiendid show to
commemorate (on November 21) the
centenary of responsible government,
wrung from the tyrants in Sydney and the
more amenable and far - sighted
imperialists in Whitehall.
The ermine, plumes, brilliant uniforms,
wigs, burnished medals and regalia, not to
mention the bands and the sudden, sur-
prising sunshine, were not calculated, but
did steal the attention from the
Olympians, many in their splendid native
robes, in the city for the last day before
the opening of the Games.
Premier Bolte, the 61st Treasurer, rose
above his 60 predecessors, all of whom
have assured Melburnians they are more
needy than the last, and gave a luncheon-
party for 500, a garden-party for 2000;
and the fun and Games were on!
• •
The N.S.W. Maritime Services Board
has made a striking job of renovating
No. 7 wharf, Woolloomooloo. An
“elevator” (the nevy Mariposa and
Monterey berth there!) takes passengers
from wharf-level to upper-deck level, and
there are a panelled Customs-hall and
waiting-hall. Other facilities include
bank-offices with pastel motifs, a tourist
bureau, refreshment-bar and telephones.
The car-trip through the Domain to the
city or up the hill to King’s Cross should
help to make No. 7, Woolloomooloo, the
“glamor” wharf for ships berthing in
Sydney v This atmosphere is added to at
the moment by the proximity of the
Royal yacht, Britannia, which was
berthed a cable’s - length from the
Mariposa’s, stern when the Matson liner
tied-up at the wharf last Wednesday.
• •
Inter-State political observers who may
be puzzled by the change in complexion
of Melbourne Trades Hall Council in
recent months would have to spend only
an hour or sp in the dreary old Lygon-
street building to see the set-up. There
is now no pretence that the Reds and
Leftists haven’t swallowed the executive.
It isn’t so long since Jacky Brown (Rail-
ways), Clarrie O’Shea (Tramways) and
Pat Malone (Builders’ Laborers) spent
much of their Thursday evenings shouting
at and being snubbed by the Trades Hall
executive. Now they are the leaders of
the council, and what they direct goes.
Vic Stout, the secretary, swings his execu-
tive whichever way Jacky Brown fancies,
and this is always, of course, against the
Right (Anti-Com.) Wing. Stodt and
Brown are the hinges. Stout’s influence
with the executive is remarkable, since he
is long past retiring-age ; some say he
is 71.
The executive jollies its doubters down
the primrose path with the Corns, with the
assurance that this is the way to Kill
Keon and that in due course the Reds
will be dumped ; but'the Reds are getting
what they want now—the council voted
for both the 24-hour stoppage and the
two-hour stoppage put up through the
A.C.T.U. on the voices—and what
guarantee can there be that tractable,
moderate unionists now being cajoled
and threatened into supporting Jacky
Brown will stop when told to do so?
That is, if they ever are.
Brown goes from strength to strength.
It may be only a year or two before he is
the Trades Hall executive.
• •
The finding of Mr. Justice Sugerman
in the N.S.W. Land Court against an
owner who sought special damages
from jhe Cumberland County Council
tor “injurious affection” through its
green-belt zoning plans wipes out a pile of
for compensation lodged under
the Act. About the only people who now
have a claim are those through whose
properties the phantom expressways
have been driven holus-bolus—on a map
—as an excuse for socialisation. If the
C.C.C. can find a way those rights of
claim will go, too, irrespective of equity,
justice and humanity.
• •
According to “Branch-News,” published
by the Waterside Workers’ Federation
(Jim Healy’s show), Sydney,
The City of Budapest, a smaller city than
Sydney, now boasts of 18 athletic stadiums
wilii cinder-tracks, as against one in Sydney.
As a result of this great improvement in their
way of hfe, Hungary was able to win 16 gold-
medals at the last Olympic Games.
Recently, the Communist party—largest in the
Government—was in the process of a most
ruthless hounding-out of bureaucratic methods
and the removal of bureaucrats, opportunists
and foreign agents.
In the course of this self-initiated critical
clean-up, and in coil junction with the' aggression
in Egypt, the Fascists saw opportunity and
commenced an uprising. In spite of tremendous
imperialist assistance it failed because of the
resistance of the Hungarian workers assisted by
the Sovjet forces.
Hence, naturally, the general strike by
Hungarian trade-unionists as a protest
against the mass-deportation of Hun-
garian patriots to slave-camps in Russia
under the supervision of the Communist-
dominated Government as a self-initiated
critical clean-up. And Jim Healy
undoubtedly should be given a double-
headed gold-medal.
• •
An international contracting group is
taking a step which will make strike and
go-slow organisers pause if it succeeds.
It is claiming £A25,000 from the Auck-
land Ceramic, Concrete Builders and
Allied Trades Union in relation to alleged
delays to work on a power project. In
Maoriland, apparently, there are people
who think the common-law rights of
employers to a fair deal still exist.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITN WIMBLES INKS”
OORNE by runners travelling ankle-
deep in dust, speeding like cats on
hot bricks over burning bitumen, hitch-
hiking between Ingham and Townsville,
crossing the Burdekin on a goods-truck
because the bridge was under water,
running though recovering from snake-
bite, welcomed by 100,000 people at
Brisbane, waved on by hula-girls from
a Mermaid Beach nightclub, lighting a
spare torch from flame fallen on the
roadway between Lismore and Coraki,
showered with rose-petals at Lismore,
startled so as almost to fall by a lad
running out with a toy torch near Sydney,
waved on to Sydney by 400,000, welcomed
at Sydney Town Hall by 30,000 who had
been hoaxed a few minutes before when a
university student presented the Lord
Mayor with a flaming torch made from
a tin-can and a chair-leg, the Olympic
Torch has been the brightest thing in a
sombre Australian year; and no matter
what it may preside over in Melbourne,
and no matter what they may say on
public occasions, Sydneysiders will
always consider that the moment when
Lord Mayor Hills took the tin-can torch
by its chair-leg and began his speech of
welcome was the Olympic Torch’s finest
hour: more beaut, than De Groot or
when they lost the music on Barbirolli
. . . maybe the best ever, —“Nunk.”
+J4 >+4 4+4
“Zorok”: I see that Nina Ponomareva
arrived at Essendon airport—hatless.
❖ ❖ *
“Yakipan”: As a surprise for the
Oriental and Continental rowers at
Ballarat’s Olympic Village a banfl of
kilted bagpipers was invited to visit them
and play a few tunes. At the finish an
Italian picked up a set of pipes and
piped an expert “Road to the Isles.” The
belief that only the Scots have
dies hard. The Irish have them, as do
the Indians, Pakistanis, Papuans and the
Northumbrians. In fact, most hill-
peoples have them, and they are said to
have originated in Persia. The snake-
charmer’s pipe is very similar to the
bagpiper’s chanter, known to the
Japanese prison-guards in Singapore as
“Cobra, Cobra.” ' The Chinese pipe that
plays such a piercing part in any Chinese-
style band, especially at funerals, is
another of the family.
❖ ♦>
“Doormat”: “Corrupt politics, muni-
cipal graft, and bribing of police”—the
Adelaide “Church Guardian,” criticising
Sydney. Under the headline “Tale of Two
Cities” the “Guardian” says the worst
feature of it all is that “many shrug their
shoulders and say Sydney has always been
like that.” The paper lines-up Sydney
with Shanghai, but claims Shanghai is
greatly reformed now: no beggars, no
drunks, and even no flies. “Perhaps poli-
tical and-civic honor are only sleeping in
Sydney and a reformer will arise to
cleanse the cesspool,” concludes the City
of Churches charitably.
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: Four billboards in a row
outside a Palmerston North (N. 2.) book-
stall :
“Weekend”: “Strip or Starve.”
“N.Z. Truth”: “Tor<? Clothes* to
Shreds.”
“People”: “When Sex Is a Crime.”
“N.Z. Free Lance”: “Where Jesus
Walked.”
❖ ❖ *i+
“Agricola”: Railway-workers at Bris-
bane threatened to leave because they said
the parcels-office was infested with bird-
lice. Just another obstacle to bringing
Queensland railways up to scratch.
❖ ❖ *
“Apemantus”: Shortwave news-broad-
casts from All-India Radio and Radio
Pakistan avoid mention of the Middle
East. With more than geographic pre-
cision, they call that area “Western Asia.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: The Russian agricultural
delegation to New Zealand were taken
for a drive round Christchurch’s beautiful
garden-suburbs and through Canterbury’s
lovely countryside. It was Labor Day
and racing was in full blast. The caval-
cade of cars was halted there by a crowd
which refused to budge, and again at
Riccarton and Sockburn. At Timaru
another crowd blocked their approach to
the main hotel —all wage-slaves hoping
for the Totalisator Agency Boards to
make them into capitalists.
❖ ❖ ❖
“S.E.T.”: Drive-in cinemas will pro-
vide a long-needed service for cars, as one
of the conditions of approval is:
At least one W.C. and washbasin shall
be provided for each 100 cars or part
thereof.
I didn’t know cars cared.
❖ »>
“Ladimac”: Took my first trip in a
train equipped with automatic doors, and
having reached my destination I was
standing on the station watching the
doors close when down the steps came a
big, hefty policeman—he went to jump
on to the moving train, and when he saw
“I’d like you to have it finished by this afternoon —I don't Want
my husband to know about it.”
the closed doors he gave a thunderous
cry of “Stop! ” Instantly the train obeyed,
doors opened, and in he got. That’s all
right for cops; I wonder if “Open
Sesame!” still works for robbers.
♦♦♦ ♦> *t*
“H.A.L.”: Visiting a publisher’s office
today is a saddening business. Ten-to-
one you’ll see on his desk a batch of
watercolor illustrations for a children’s
book. Weeks and weeks of patient work
have gone into them, and the accompany-
ing fairytale. “Impossible to publish
“But if I DON'T spend the money we won't be able to claim the
old-age pension .”
them in Australia,” one publisher told
me. “The market’s flooded with this
sort of thing, printed in Holland or
Italy. As they’re run off in huge editions,
with the whole English-speaking world
as their market, they can retail here at a
few bob a copy. The cost of printing
colored illustrations in Australia is so
high that we couldn’t bring out the same
sort of thing at less than 15s. a copy.”
<s► fge
“El Arem”: Study of child-psychology
has added a lot of interest to the lives of
the few with time to indulge. Met a bloke
yesterday who was watching a kid take
the top off a tin and put it back again.
All three of us were fully occupied for
half-an-hour. Yet people wonder what
we’ll do with our spare time when we get
automation.
❖ ♦> ❖ 0
“Ars Longa”: Hasn’t Mr. Schlunke,
in his story “Sacred and Profane” (B.
7/11/ ’56), misunderstood the fair ladies
in Titian’s picture generally known as
“Sacred and Profane Love”? He calls the
unclad lady Profane Love presumably
because, being unclad, she is not respect-
able, and the other lady Sacred Love
because she is modestly attired. The Out-
line of Art, edited by Sir William Orpen,
describes the clothed figure as “supposed
to typify Earthly Love and the other,
Heavenly Love. Biit since these two
women are seated on either side of a well,
others have interpreted them as Grace and
Truth.”
%
“Kinlar”: Not only railway bookipg-
clerks avoid pouring change into the
customer’s hands, tell “S.M.S.” (B.
7/11/ ’56). Spread on a counter, coins
are easily checked. That’s correct prac-
tice ; it reveals mistakes and
promotes honesty, on both
sides. If there’s a shortage
in a “poured handful” of
change, who decides who
palmed the difference? And
has “S.M.S.” never heard of
the smart operator who can
count 20 single shillings,
quickly, one-by-one into
open palm and yet leave
only 18s. there?
“Vingter”: Worse than
the railway ticket-sellers
who ruin “S.M.S.’s” white
gloves by making her pick
up her change from the
grubby counters are the
gentlemen who dispense beer
in Melbourne’s public bars.
Invariably they ignore my
outstretched palm and dump
the change in the deepest
beer-puddle on the counter.
It’s not my white gloves
which are ruined, since I
rarely wear these into public
bars, but my pants-pockets have a short
life as a result of the beer-soaked coins
they have to carry, for which reason a
tailor friend tells me barmen are his best
salesmen.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Apemantus”: Perth’s “Weekend
Mail” has been quizzing responsible
citizens on their reaction to Anglo-French
intervention in Egypt. It found a number
“who were afraid to answer because they
worked for the State or Federal Govern-
ments and therefore felt their opinions
might prejudice their prospects.” One
public figure was silent “because her
husband was a civil servant and she
wanted him to remain one with
prospects.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Nimrod”: Inflation has inflated
church-offerings. TTiere are more two-
bobs than trey-bits in the plate these days,
and even the offering-envelopes are three
times bigger than they were. My wife
received one last week full quarto-size
(instead of the 4in.-by-2in. that we used
to get), and obviously designed to make
a ten-bob note look silly.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kate”: The authorities passed over
Australia’s eagerly-anticipated millionth
road-casualty with the casualness of a
hit-and-run motorist: there were so many,
around that time, that they didn’t know
who it was or where it happened.
*X* ♦*+
“Ess”: I’m fascinated by those reminis-
cen? writers who talk of lumps of money
won, lost or earned in the old days as big
sums “in those days.” Some old bookie
will remark that he lost £sooo—“and that
was a big amount in the ’thirties.” But
Dame Mabel Brodkes, in her memoirs,
Crowded Galleries, takes the belt with
her story of a bullocky remittance-man
who came into £40,000 —“a big sum in the
’fifties.” This cavalier attitude to any-
thing exceeding a quid quite overawes me.
I’m still trying to win £lO,OOO in the
lottery. Apparently to Dame Mabel that
would be a reduced tip for a waiter who
had spilt the soup.
❖ ♦> ♦♦♦
“Agricola”: I found the best way to
stop envelopes sticking in the tropics (B.
14/11/’56) was to dust powder over the
gummed edges. Postal officials did the
same thing to stamps. A public servant
in a large office requisitioned for three
tins of powder. He was told: “Powder
for application to typists’ faces is not
an item of departmental expenditure.”
❖ ❖ •*
“Moorapi”: Melbourne’s tramway
bosses have offered a tenner to every
employee who enlists a new recruit.
There’s a catch, though—the rookie has
to “fez-pleez” for \a year before the
reward can be collected.
❖ ♦♦♦ *X*
“McKim”: While being escorted by
train to a jail in northern N.S.W. an 18-
year-old criminal bashed his two elderly
guards into a state of helplessness, locked
himself in a toilet, smashed a window and
jumped to freedom from the train travel-
ling at 50 m.p.h. If these things are done
in the green period, what will be don© in
the dry?
A NEW DEAL
“On Saturday, November 17, Melbourne TV-
station HSV7 televised a horse-race for the
first time publicly—the Olympic Year Cup, at
Flemington.”
An era dawned when Pandie Sun
Was televised at Flemington;
No course-announcer could cook-up
The running of the Olympic Cup,
And racing will from now be clean,
Because not only heard, but seen.
This claim may cause a small sensation,
But let me give an illustration:
Suppose a radio-quiz to. be
Which of three thimbles hides a pea ;
Well, they’re in Sydney, you’re at
Pymble —
How can you hope to pick the thimble ?
But showing it on television
Ends all cause for indecision :
You see the pea beyond all doubt,
You see the thimbles pushed about,
And then it’s clear to everyone
Exactly how the thing is done.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A FTER years at sea in the Merchant
Service and R.A.N., Buggsy, an old
chum of mine, swallowed the anchor, but
he retains a marine engineer’s interest in
ships new to Melbourne port. Thus,
when he saw the Russian merchantman
Gruzia, which brought the Red Olympians
from the Crimea, he strolled over to
inspect her lines. An officer came down
the gangway and greeted him in broken
English. Buggsy, primed to be nice to
our Olympic visitors, politely asked how
Ivan was liking his stay. The Russian
said that never had the ship’s company
received from a city such a gesture of
welcome: “Efferyone vear ze red poppy
of Russia —and you haf ze red fie, too.”
It was two days before Remembrance
Sunday.—“ Salt-horse Sam.”
6
* * *
“Poppa”: “You're always expecting
the impossible of me,” she said, and he
said, “And you often are, too.”
“Well, now, the first thing We have to determine is —WHO Was
the aggressor?”
“Wusslean”: Best post-mortem of this
year’s Cup: “He had the run of the race
but the others went too fast.”
❖ ♦♦♦ *
“Niggle”: A Sydney party living in
impenetrable jungle at the foot of a cliff
not so far from the city has decided to
exchange his primitive hut for a profes-
sional builder’s job. Builders not liking
to throw their materials down the cliff
and jump over after them, the party has
put up a flying-fox. Being of a mechanical
turn of mind, he has put much thought
into a flying-fox; also
some steel cable —and was
dissuaded from installing
a steam - driven winch
only by representations
that it had to be either the
winch or the house. Thjit
was weeks ago, and still
the builders haven’t turAed
up. “Anyway,” his friends
say, “you’ll be able to
organise a shooting-party
to shoot the flying-fox.”
❖ ❖ ♦;«
“Wandana”: Touching
that query about “phillu-
menists,” the people who
collect matchbox labels,
there is another body
whose sideline, peridromo-
phily, is “the art, craft and
science of collecting rail-
way-tickets.” One English
collector has over 300
specimens. Types include
ornamental tickets, type-
written vouchers, “corona-
tion specials” in red, white
and blue issued to peers
and members of Parlia-
ment travelling from Kensington to West-
minster, and a 3ft.-long specimen used
in the Delaware Valley (U.S.A.). So far
I’ve not come across anyone who
systematically collects airways tickets. By
the way, what’s the title for the people
who go in for collecting jam-tin and beer-
bottle labels?
❖ ❖ *2*
“Roni”: Stores everywhere do well
from Christmas, Easter, Father’s Day
and Mother’s Day; and shop in Cairns
now have special bargain-sales on
Endowment Days.
*2*
“Roger Mike”: By advertising cash-
prices as well as terms, dealers in
refrigerators and washing-machines used
to pretend that cash-customers really
existed. Now most traders mention only
the h.-p. price. A Perth fridge-monger
goes further: in return for a trade-in he
supplies not only a new machine but a
sum of money, deducting only the neces-
sary deposit from the value of the trade-
in and paying the balance to the customer.
❖ ❖ *2*
“Blufire”: The Tatt.’s ticket which
won £3OOO on Fighting* Force in the No.
1 Cup Sweep went to an address at Seoul
Military Post Office, Korea, and Arab’s
Choice, which turned out to be a non-
starter on Cup day, was bred by Mr.
Lionel Israel.
“Teacher’s Pet”: The Housemaster
investigated the increasing number of
bodgie-type haircuts among his pupils.
Each wearer assured him that he had
not intended his hair to be cut that way
—he had simply asked for a short cut.
The Housemaster considers he has un-
covered a new racket. None of the boys
in future will ask for a short cut because
of the fuss and the barracking from their
pals. Haircuts will have to be taken more
frequently, and who profits from that?
*> *> ♦>
“E.A.G.”: During a dice game a
Bundaberg (Q.) man lent £2OO to one
player, £3OO to another. At settling-time
the borrowers refused to pay, alleging
that loaded dice had been used. Lender
took the case to court, where the
magistrate found that money lent for
gambling purposes is not recoverable
under law. Therefore, though the court
had no doubt that the money had been
lent, it had no option but to rule against
the lender, with costs. So next time
you’re touched for two-bob for a cert,
make sure you’re dealing with a bloke
whose word is his bond —otherwise you
won’t stand an earthly. It’s the law.
❖ ♦♦♦ +>
“Jock”: I’ve seen a bank on each of
four street-corners at Orange (N.S.W.),
but Lismore (N.S.W.) has three side by
side, or four within seven doors. On the
corner of Molesworth- and Magellan-
street is the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia. Then in Molesworth-street comes
an auctioneer, and then a pub. Along-
side is the Queensland Insurance Com-
pany, and then come the National Bank
of Australasia, the Bank of New South
Wales and the Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney.
❖ ❖ *>
“Hi-Fy”: Week before last Christmas
a team of four scavengers (B. 31/10/’56)
manning a modern scavenging unit gained
nearly £l5O in tips, to say nothing of
hams, wines, beer and other delectables.
They’re only, as “M.C.M.” puts it,
“bloody scavengers” ; there may not be
much of a future in it, but there certainly
is a present.
❖❖ , ❖
“Ailsey”: They measure time in milli-
grams on Queensland’s Gold Coast.
Outside the Government Tourist Bureau
at Coolangatta is a sign: “Office hours:
Monday to Friday, 8.30 a.m. to 5.06
p.m.”
♦l* *i*
“Ellsbells”: “Ranger’s” egret-egress
swindle at the church-bazaar (B. 7/11 /’56)
reawakened my conscience abSut a swiftie
put over at a Malvern (Vic.) Sunday-
school fete some 40 years ago. A bosom
pal assisted me to sell raffle-tickets for
a bike at Id. a time. The young-’uns came
in in a big way. Among those present was
the council valuer, a leader in our Bible
class. After getting a few dozen pennies
in for the building-fund we wheeled the
bike on to the stage, and announced the
valuer as the lucky winner—although he
hadn’t been sold a ticket. Stunned
surprise changed to stern reproach as he
came up to collect: it was his own
machine, the one he used on his municipal
missions.
•❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: The expression “as bare
as a barrack” is out. The London
“Times” photographed a new barrack-
block in Kent—there’s a men’s “sun-
room” full of fatly-upholstered armchairs
and sofas, and small, polished tables laden
with vases of flowers. Our own Nashos
have the spring-mattresses and individual
bed-lamps shown in the barrack-room,
but are they also afforded the nice little
bedside-mats strategically placed to keep
bare tootsies off the cold, cold lino, at
reveille?
❖ ❖
“Archaen”: The crazy thing about
flying-saucers is that nobody really
cashed-in on them before an Adelaide
engineer. He had invented a V-belt
pulley to fit any shaft* which can be put
on and removed in seconds and made any
size you like. The idea was novel enough
for a master-patent—only someth ng
really revolutionary gets that —and he has
sold the right to manufacture it in many
countries. But he was stuck for a name.
When somebody suggested “Flying-
saucer” he thought the name must have
been grabbed long ago, but to his
astonishment and delight he found that
nobody had yet adopted it as a trade-
mark. “I’ve never been able to estimate
how much that name’s worth in advertis-
ing-value,” he says. “I wouldn’t sell it
now for a million-quid.”
♦ ❖ *
“Burr Imul”: From the Lost and
Found column of a Welsh newspaper:
Lost, August 5, between Penrhyndeud-
raeth and Beddgelert, lady’s plastic
trousers.
Hopeless job, looking for unmention-
ables between unspeakables.
PERIOD OF EXPANSION
“The logical next step in the development of
the girdle is to make it pneumatic.”— Woman’s
magazine.
When Grandma, in the “good old days,”
Shored-up her chassis with some “stays,”
Whalebone, you see,
In quantity
Helped greatly the constriction ;
Whilst over her the danger hung
She could be puncturing a lung
Through sudden squeeze
Or violent sneeze.
They were a great affliction.
She had to gulp in lots of air
While Grandpa used to tug and swear
To get the things
With various strings
Uncomfortably tightened.
She was as set as in cement,
With bulges made obedient.
Yet still, by those
Things, we suppose,
Somehow her life was brightened.
And then, from the designer s sketch,
Came two-way-, three-way-, four-way-
stretch.
Rigidity
Would henceforth be
Right out, whilst less emphatic
Would generous curves be made to seem,
Amidships, or athwart the beam.
Now soon must come
{Men, don’t be glum !)
The girdle that’s pneumatic.
What though you’re forced to man the
pump !
It must make scrawny dames look plump.
Angles, it’s clear,
Will disappear,
Knobs face annihilation.
Disturbing thoughts, though, here intrude
About the one of magnitude:
Say, in her case,
Wouldn’t she face
A spiral of inflation ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
DISPLACED GODDESS
“W/’E are gathered here today,” began
Prime Minister Billy Hughes, “to
unveil this glorious memorial Jo our
fallen. It is . . He turned to his secre-
tary. “What the blank blazes is it?”
The secretary whispered “ ‘Bellona,
Goddess of War, by Sir Bertram
Mackennal.”
“What’s that?” asked Billy, cupping his
ear.
“ ‘Bellona,’ by Sir Bertram Mackennal,”
shouted the secretary.
Billy took it from there, and delivered
a memorable speech to the 10,000 citizens
assembled around Parliament House,
Melbourne, on Anzac Day, 1921. “The
spirit of war enshrined in bronze,” Billy
called it. “The face is terrible, as in war
itself—and death is its headpiece.”
Thus did busty Bellona make her debut
in Melbourne. The magnificent bronze
was presented to the Government in 1916
by the Australian Sir Edgar Bertram
Mackennal, most distinguished sculptor
of his time. He considered it his best
work, and wanted it to be regarded as
a tribute to the “gallant deeds of his
countrymen on Gallipoli.” Dispatched to
Australia it lay virtually forgotten in its
box until the hurriedly arranged unveiling,
which happened to take place before one
of Sir Bertram’s visits from England.
Bellona glowered down from the steps
of Parliament House until 1925. She
was then crated and moved to embryonic
Canberra, where, after careful considera-
tion which occupied the next couple of
years, a possie was found for her in Com-
monwealth-avenue, south of the Molonglo
Bridge.
For the next 27 years pranksters painted
her, covered her nakedness with a singlet,
even fashioned a set of brassieres for her
expansive bosom from gramophone-
records. She was always embarrassing
the capital; that’s why, on the eve of the
Queen’s visit in 1954, Bellona was whisked
away to a dark storeroom at the \Var
Memorial. Her disappearance made head-
lines again, and rated a statement by
Interior Minister W. S. Kent Hughes.
“It is merely being returned to its right-
ful home,” he said. “The order was issued
some time ago. Work just happened to
begin this week.”
In her place next night appeared a
tombstone engraved: “R.I.P. Goddess
Bellona.”
That was whisked away, too.
Now Bellona is stirring again. She’s
been measured for a new base. Her new
home-designate is the foyer of the £5-
million administrative building, where it
is said she is to be renamed Baloney to
ensure the respect of all the inmates.
TROOPER.


For speed, smoothness snd pressurised comfort
Eft
NPV3OI
TAA VISCOUNTS
Australia’s most popular airliners
Bookings : TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent
PERTONAL ITEMS
A' FORMER very happy and immensely
popular Bulletin relationship
resumes again in this year’s Christmas
Number (December 12 issue), in a partly
different field—the first instalment of
David Low’s own story of his picturesque
carder, picturesquely illustrated with
Low’s drawings and some personal
photographs.
Low’s . Autobiography, evidently sent
to The Bulletin for old time’s sake, will
be found, through instalment after instal-
ment, an exceptionally brightly written,
amusing, vivid and crowded word-and-
picture gallery of close-ups of most of the
world’s great figures of the past 40 years.
The characters range from the New Zea-
landers of Low’s young days, through
Billy Hughes and others who peopled
Low’s brilliant Bulletin caricaturing and
cartooning, which led to offers from
London, and so to almost daily meetings
with all the big-shots of those times:
Beaverbrook, Lloyd George, Churchill,
Roosevelt, Shaw, Wells, Chesterton,
Gandhi, Asquith, the Chamberlains, and
all the rest of them.
Quite a lot, even of those whose policies
and acts he ruthlessly attacked in his car-
toons, became his close personal friends.
Throughout, he thus moves among the
world’s greatest —especially the top states-
men, writers, artists —and he presents them
as brightly, and as frankly, in his para-
graphs as he does in the pictures that
will illustrate The Bulletin serial instal-
ments.
Such engaging 'literary people of
Charles Lamb-like lovableness as the
Lynds, Robert and Sylvia, and all the
London literary talent to be met at their
parties; his own close personal liking
for H. G. Wells; his Shaw encounters;
the brickbats, and the bouquets, from the
one and only Margot; the other public
figure who kept a square of ice on his
navel as a quietener of “butterflies” —
great characters, odd characters; and
flie general run of people also.
Low has met them all, and in the Low’s
Autobiography serial Bulletin readers
will meet and know them, too.
• •
Judge Stacy is the well-known alias of
His Honor Bertie Vandeleur Stacy,
C.M.G., D.S.O. and Bar, V.D., 8.A., and
LL.B. —released by retirement after 17
years as N.S.W. District Court Judge.
His record shows that he was also known
in many other places, including Gallipoli,
France and Belgium, by various names up
to that of Lieutenant-Colonel and Com-
manding Officer of the Ist Battalion.
Other identifying-marks include six men-
tions in dispatches. Charged with dis-
tinguished legal and military careers he
could only plead guilty on both counts
and wouldn’t get the slightest benefit of
the doubt.
• •
It’s been a comforting week for Sir
George Lansell, convalescing at his
Bendigo home . . . Hanro, the knitting
co. of which he is the protagonist, has
come to light with a bumper report
despite general difficulties in the trade,
and Bendigo R.S.L. has conferred on him
the League’s highest honor, life-member-
ship authorised by Federal Congress. In
France and Belgium for War I, and 35
years Bendigo’s R.S.L. president, he’s son
of the George Lansell who was known
in the days when the “Wild Cat” was a
kitten as the Quartz King of Australia.
Much of the quartz has gone back to
Bendigo in philanthropy. The son has
also nurtured a daily, the “Advertiser,” in
Bendigo; but his politics were not so
stable as his other activities. He was the
most controversial M.L.C. in the Vic-
torian Legislative Council, a Liberal with
a leaning to the Country l party, or vice
versa. Nobody knew. So Labor unseated
him in 1952 on a split vote.
. • •
High Commissioner-elect Sir Eric
Harrison joined a select band, including
Royalty, when presented with a cigar-box
from the “Royal tree”—a giant blackwood
felled in the Otway Forest of Victoria
more than 40 years ago. The box, put
together by B. E. Purnell (thrice Mayor
of is th'fc latest gift to take shape
from the tree’s wood; others include
gifts to the Queen, Duke of Windsor,
Duke of Gloucester and Field-Marshal
Foch.
• •
Sweeping an observant eye over Aus-
tralia with a view to associates here for his
Associated British Engineering group in
the U.K., 52-year-old Lawrence W.
Robson is a member of the council’ of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants and a
ACCOUNTSMAN
councillor (president, 1950-51) of the
Institute of Cost and Works Accountants.
As an accountant he seems to have done
pretfy well in engineering and other indus-
tries and walks of life, and has been a
member of many notable committees and
organisations, including the Anglo-
American Productivity Team of 1949.
(Less successfully, he has stood as a
Liberal in U.K. elections.) Chairman of
Henry Meadows, British Polar Engines,
Parsons Engineering, A. C. Morrison
(Engineers) and others, he is at present
keenly concerned with the possibilities of
the free-piston gasifier, whereby the
exhaust gases of a light and powerful
opposed-piston diesel-unit are used to
drive a gas-turbine. General Motors
are interested in the same thing in the
U.S.A.
Noticed getting his bags off the new
and sumptuous Mariposa, on her maiden
voyage to Sydney, Australia’s Ambassador
to the U.S., Sir Percy Spender. Percy
looks as bright and alert as ever ; possibly
a little thinner. His holiday-trip on
the Mariposa came to an abrupt end
in Sydney ; he’s flying back to Washington
because of the Suez situation.
• •
“W.H.M.” escorts an earlier Duke:
A 94-yeai-old Tasmanian lately unearthed
from among girlhood treasures a link with an
early Royal ducal tour: a big white-metal
medallion struck to commemorate the visit in
1868 of H.R.H. Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh, in
H.M.S. Galatea. . . .
The Galatea, with the Duke commissioned as
captain, was due at Adelaide, via Cape of Good
Hope, at the end of October, 1867, and elaborate
arrangements had been made to send the news
to the city immediately she was sighted. But a
schooner on watch missed her altogether, and
the pilot-boat became becalmed, so the Duke
had the satisfaction of proceeding quietly up the
Gulf in the dark and anchoring off Glenelg
pier at midnight, while the populace slept.
When the news did get through, the Mayor
and citizens put on a welcome, which included
a ride for the Duke to Government House in a
“dress barouche,” lately purchased from Mel-
bourne and described as “the most handsome
carriage in Australia.” At night the German
community, with a division of 40 members of
the Liedertafel, serenaded the Duke with his
favorite songs, in German.
In Tasmania later the Duke turned the first
sod of the inaugural railway, from Launceston
to Deloraine. The wheelbarrow used is now in
Launceston Museum.
Seen in Perth, while visiting two
brothers with whom he motored to Mel-
bourne for the Olympics, Bram Martin,
of Dartford (Kent), a 38-year-old bearded
frogman-diver, who took on that strenu-
ous activity when invalided out of the
R.A.F. after World War 11. Now running
his own diving company, he has done
several jobs for the British Admiralty and
is open for engagement in any form of
salvage work 'by anyone able to pay him.
• •
Having only lately drawn his bowler-
hat from the Army-—after 13 years’
service, including 11 in Japan and Korea—
Padre Alan Laing has tossed it into the
ring for the Wentworth (N.S.W.) by-
election. Ordained and serving in Bris-
bane, and then at Bathurst, Nyngan and
Hill End, he joined the Army (2/Ist
Pioneer Battalion) in 1943 ; injured in
Balikpapan, he was evacuated to Australia
and subsequently posted to 8.C.0.F. He
went to Korea with the 3rd Battalion,
R.A.R., which, in the fighting at Kapyong
on Anzac Day, 1951, won the U.S.
Presidential Citation. Then, after six
months in Australia, Laing returned to
Japan as Lieut.-Colonel and Senior
Chaplain. Last year he also spent six
months taking-in Britain and Europe
and, like many before him, came away
marvelling at the post-war recovery of
West Germany. His observations in the
Far East, Europe and elsewhere have
shown him, he says, why red is the
proverbial color of the proverbial herring.
• •
Frank Villiers, bosun of M.V. Nyora,
is a brother of author-sailor Alan Villiers,
who is to captain the replica of the May-
flower when it repeats the 1620 Atlantic-
crossing of the Pilgrim Fathers. Frank,
like Alan, has spent most of his life
afloat, except for five years in German
prison-camps after he was bagged by the
Admiral Scheer in the South Atlantic.
Bom in Melbourne, he joined a Nor-
wegian whaler at 18 and made several
trips to the Ross Sea; then under sail
with wheat from Spencer Gulf to Callao ;
and then with a Swede cargo-boat trading
on the North American coast. At San
Pedro he signed-on with a Norwegian
tanker with a world charter on a two-year
trip around the world, and remembers
SAILORMAN
leaving her in Australia on the day Phar
Lap won the Futurity Stakes.
Joining brother Alan as a member of
the crew of the Joseph Conrad in 1934,
he lunched aboard with Norman Lindsay
in Sydney’s Double Bay when the artist
was studying details for his. model of the
ship. Followed more than two years
around the world in the Conrad; then
British tramps till one of them encountered
the Admiral Scheer. These days his beat
is the Australian coast and thereabouts.
CHAIRMAN
Alban A. Hale: Brisbane Stock Exchange
The biennially awarded Richard Fair-
fax Reading Memorial Prize —established
by the Dental Alumni Society of Sydney
University in memory of the first Dean
of the Faculty of Dentistry there —goes
this year to the University’s Professor of
Dentistry A. J. Arnott, who’s been Dean
since 1935, and before that was super-
intendent of the United Dental Hospital.
It’s a thoroughly well-earned award.
Ever since he became Dean the prof, has
been the hardest and most effective of
workers on what has been to him a dual
project—developing together the Faculty
and the United Dental Hospital (com-
pleted this year). Today both are recog-
nised as outstanding in the British
Commonwealth.
• ■ •
Back to his native Maoriland after
terms in other parts, Major-General W. C.
Hartgill is the doctor largely responsible
for war-time organisation of the Army
Medical Services. Feilding-born, his
medical training culled from Otago and
London Universities, he joined the
A.M.S. when the Kaiser’s stoush began,
and as Deputy Director-General headed
a committee which evolved ways of
improving treatment for men in the front-
line, chiefly through new field surgical
teams. When he retired in 1947 he was
Deputy Director of Medical Services in
Eastern Command.
“H.W.”: Major-General Burns, Chief-
of-Staff of the U.N. Truce Supervision
Organisation in Palestine from August,
1954, until his appointment as Chief of
the United Nations Command, is not an
American, as stated in B. 7/11 /’56, but
a Canadian. Among the various senior
appointments and commands which
he held during World War II were those
of commander of the sth Canadian
Armored Div. and the Ist Canadian
Corps. The first chief-of-staff of the
U.N.T.S.O. was an American, while
General Burns’s immediate predecessor
was a Dane.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 76, Thomas J. Lynch, a former
Deputy Commissioner of Police. Regarded as
one of the Force’s most capable admipistrators,
he retired in 1940.
In Adelaide, at 65, Walter James Dick,
Adelaide manager of Melbourne Steamship Co.
Fifty years with the c 0... in 1935 he went to
England to supervise the fitting-out of the
inter-State liner Duntroon. Served in World
War I.
At Latrobe (Tas.), at 47, Allan Henry
Dempster, B.Mus., organist of the Independent
Church, Collins-street, Melbourne. Music-
master at Box Hill Grammar School and
organist of five Masonic lodges. He became m
while adjudicating at musical .competitions m
Tasmania.
At Wellington (N.Z.), at 76, Captain Gerald
Stokly Doorly, most of whose days were
crowded with adventure. A native of Irinioaa,
he was fellow-cadet on H.M.S. Worcester with
Evans, of the Broke, who was also his com-
panion with Scott’s Antarctic expedition ot
1902-04. His books, Voyages, of the Morning
and In the Wake, give the highlights of his story,
and he also wrote The Handmaiden of the Navy.
In later years he was on U.S.S. Co. s steamers
in N.Z., and with tlfe Port Phillip (Melbourne)
pilot service.


NON-STOP!


ABORIGINALITIES
TPHEY tell me in Alice Springs that
there’s a blackmarket in aboriginal
art. —“Jindril.”
* * * *
“Kerba”: Visited a mate, a market-
gardener, and found him putting wire-
netting along one of his boundary-fences.
“What are you keeping out —hares or
bunnies?” I asked. “Neither,” he
answered; “wind.” He went on to
explain: In this exposed position the
westerlies played havoc with the crops,
so he’d asked the Government agronomist
what to plant as a breakwind. Advice was
to just put small-mesh wirenetting on the
fence; it would break-up the force of
the gusts and distribute the rushing air.
That was a while back; the other day I
got a letter from the mate. That agrono-
mist is pretty close to being his pin-up
boy.
I * * * * j ; :
“Fenix”: North Queenslanders have a
keen publicity-agent in Mr. George
Mack, Queensland Museum director.
Sydney “Sun-Herald” reports him as
saying that fear of the dreaded taipan is
keeping New Australians and tourists
from tropical Queensland. He points out
that the taipan is by no means
Australia’s most dangerous snake.
“The worst snake is the brown-
snake,” he says. “He will strike
you without provocation or warn-
ing. At least the taipan needs
provocation before he will bite
you. You have a chance.” Mr.
Mack then adds that there are
“very many more” brown-snakes
than taipans in Queensland.
* * *
“Melboy”: Possibly the one
thing not iron-curtained in Russia
today is the Day of the Birds. Pre-
dating Communism and other
“humanising” influences, caged
finches, larks and other avian
prisoners have been set loose each
April 7 from Kotelnikovsky Bird
Market to highlight the arrival of
spring, the ceremony eventually
becoming part of the celebration
of the Orthodox Feast of the
Annunciation. In spite of their
bondage, Russians still cheerfully fork-
out three-roubles each year to buy for
each bird the one state they may never
know or enjoy themselves.
* * * *
“Sam”: One inelegant Australian
place-name of English derivation that
“Zake” didn’t mention (B. 24/10/’56) is
Tumbledown Dick, the name of a hill
in the Narrabeen district, north of
“The ‘EasyWork’ shearing-cradle adds a new dignity to th ’ job , Mick.
Sydney. There are a number of inns so
named in England, and possibly there was
once an inn of that name in the Narra-
been area. “Tumbledown Dick” was the
nickname popularly given to Oliver Crom-
well’s ineffective son, Richard Cromwell,
who was quickly ejected from the Protec-
torship, and was of so little political
importance that after the Restoration he
was allowed to live in England as a
country gentleman.
* * * *
“E. &O. E.”: Strangest animal I’ve
ever seen on a leash as a pet
was in a London street —a banded arma-
dillo, hailing from South America, trotting
along beside its mistress taking no more
notice of the traffic tjian the true Lon-
doner took of this strange sight. Being
a mere Australian, I stood and stared.
* * * *
“Agricola”: The belief that sharks
won’t attack natives is not shared by
natives or sharks —pearling and trochus-
shelling records show a long list of
attacks on native divers. Still, the natives
have little fear of sharks, and few wear
any protection when diving. There’s
only one record of a shark attacking a
“ Courtesy , me foot! This Weather, his rust cripples him.”
man in full diving-dress, and the man
got away. Most divers scare them off
with an upsurge of bubbles by releasing
air through the air-valve. Natives believe
it’s best to remain perfectly still until
the shark passes. That might be a sound
idea, too, but it must be hard to keep the
old knees from knocking.
* # • * *
“Narumee”: Grandfather-clocks (B.
14/11/’56)? Mine’s 150 years old, and
looks as good in my hallway as it did in
the vast, oak-beamed Yorkshire farm-
house kitchen from which it came. But
it keeps accurate time now, and it didn’t
then. My father used to tell how his
mother was maddened by the continual,
shtill striking of the clock. When she
urged Grandfather to repair the works,
he replied that he was able to tell the
time from the clock, and, after all these
years, she should, be able to as well: “I
don’t know why you have to keep natter-
ing about it—when it strikes fourteen,
it’s time to rise, and round about fifty’s
time to go to bed. Anything under ten,
and the needs winding-up!”
* * * *
“Charles”: Spear-fishermen might
learn a few pointers from island pearl-
divers. No native would trail a captured
crayfish in the water —they swim with it
held aloft out of the water because it is
believed that the cray exudes a fluid which
attracts sharks. I’ve seen ’em arrive on
the scene very quickly. A dress-diver,
however, can fill a sugarbag without
trouble —the bubbles from his helmet
probably scare the sharks. And there
may be something in the contention of
Johnny, who swam towards a shark
instead of retreating: “Shark must look
him first time,” but if he swam away,
“shark he kai-kai me proper quick.”
There are probably still photos on Thurs-
day Island of a mainlander, “Treacle,”
who practically had his head in a shark’s
mouth, but “made proper fool of that
fellow” by bringing his hands aroupd and
sticking his fingers in the shark’s eyes.
* * * *
“Uramao”: “Blind eels are a very small
group of creatures, and to get a new
kind is an extremely rare event,” said
Professor L. R. Richardson when a queer
fish was sent to the Dominion Museum
(N.Z.) and later to Victoria University
College, Wellington, for identification.
The prof, is contributing a description of
the fish to a scientific journal. Hooked in
the Kaituna River, Bay of Plenty, the eel
was 2ft. long, with three bristles on its
nose. It is brown-black, and is the first
seen in New Zealand.
* n * *
“Curio”: “Eurimburra’s” par. (B.
14/11 /’56) will not meet with
the approval of Turon Valley
(N.S.W.) people, who claim that
the country between Hill End and
Palmer’s Oakey is the setting for much of
Robbery Under Arms. There is enough
wild country in this area to suit the most
exacting producers. One rector of the
parish of Hill End and Sofala used to
answer queries about his parish by saying,
quite truthfully, that it extended from
Mount Horrible to World’s End. World’s
End is as perfect a hide-out as could be
desired.
*.* * *
“N.A.8.”: The Richmond River His-
torical Society at Lismore (N.S.W.) has
opened a historical museum and library,
housed in a two-story building that was
once the home of the Trench family—
long associated with the district. The
society has 150 members. The collection
of exhibits ranges from one of the
first separators used on a Richmond River
dairyfarm to aboriginal weapons and
curios, as well as historic photographs
and documents. Above 600 mineral
exhibits are on view, many of them from
the once-busy Drake field; yet the dis-
trict’s best money-spinner of recent days
—rutile —is not represented. Rutile occurs
mostly in beach-sand, but is found some-
times in reef-form.
* * # *
“Birdwatcher”: Picnicking on the
beach, I threw pieces of hard biscuit
to three seagulls who gathered for the
feast. Two Wriggled the pieces in their
beaks until they could swallow them,
but the third jtrotted to the water’s edge
and there solemnly dunked his biscuit in
the water and then returned for more. I
tried him with both large and small
pieces and the result was always the same
—anything too large for comfort was
taken to the edge of the sea and dipped
until it was soft. One of the other two
copied him after a while, but the third
was quite content with the hard way.
* * * *
r "PHE white powder which besprinkles
the white-cockatoo’s feathers is an
ant-repellent to protect its young brood
in the hollow tree where the birds nest.
The galah, whose feathers are not charged
with this repellent, tears all the bark
around the nest-entrance, and in hot
weather, when the ants are very vicious,
clings to the outside of the nest and fans
the bared wood with its wings till it is as
shiny and smooth as glass. The ants are
unable to climb over this surface or are
blown off with the faintest breath of air.
—“H.J.W.”
“Spin”: The powder-down with which
many birds • are provided is water-
repellent, and some water - birds
undoubtedly use it to keep the feathers
dry. The white-faced heron carries more
of it than any other bird I know, and
the stuff probably acts as efficiently foi
it as the oil-glands do for ducks. On the
other hand the tawny-frogmouth is well-
supplied, too, and in its case the powder
probably helps to keep down the lice witn
which most birds are afflicted.
“S.”: Is “Zake” (B. 17/10/’56) sure
his cockatoo doesn’t moult? Most birds,
do, usually after the breeding-season, but
the moulting is usually gradual ana
seldom obvious. The jnost noticeable
instances are those involving a complete
change of plumage—male blue-Wrens less
than three years old provide a case m
point—or birds such as the black swan,
which loses all its quill-feathers at
once and can’t fly till it regains t e •
Another example is the dabchick.
old belief that this bird was nig
arose from the fact that its feeble powers
of flight desert it during the mo e
season.
OLD HARRY
Four palm-trees curve askew above the
humpy.
In their dubious shade
Old Harry slumps on a box between two
dogs,
Watching the river-road with watery eyes.
Rum and his memories keep him warm
When %e can stay awake. Only in dreams
Does power sit tense within him, as it did
When singlehanded he cleared the bar in
Cooktown
Armed with a table-leg. Warm island
sins
Are with him; girls like hibiscus-flowers'
Who wilted overnight; old squareface
sprees
When he ranged the beaches like a
cockeyed-bob
And woke with flies around him in the
morning.
Manilamen and Japs, Malays and coons
Walked wary of him; but a Solomons
boy
Clubbed him off Malaita (feel the dent
In the ancient balding silver), and the
supercargo
Brained the coon with a capstan-bar
(Regretting it later) . . .
•
Pearlshell, beche-de-mer,
Trochus and bird-of-paradise plumes;
Anything costing nothing, and neve .
missed
Filled and burnt his pockets.; till he
stranded
On Flyingfish Point, at the rivermouth —
Put off the one last voyage once too often
And bleaches in the sun.
Through a life of pension-days and lovely
rum
He fills the gaps with sleep and memory.
Like driftwood at the rivermouth, the sea
Will one day take him on that one last
voyage.
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. Scott.


A MELBOURNE store has larger-than-
life effigies of kangaroos with pop-
up joeys in their pockets, as part of its
Olympic decorations. I saw a pointirfg
finger, heard a sizeable kid inquire,
“What’s that, Mummy?” and, on being
told that it was a kangaroo, ask, “Why’s
it got two heads?” Mum and Junior
were unmistakably Old Australian. —
“Narumee.”
“Curate’s Egg”: The rejection of fake
eggs made from balsa-wood and the
acceptance of marbles in substitution of
the genuine articles (B. 31/10/’56) does
not necessarily point to a low i.q. on the
part of the nesting canary. The rejection
of the wooden substitute would result,
not from an inefficient reasoning process,
but from an instinctive awareness that
all was not as it should be, which aware-
ness would come from the unaccustomed
heat-stimulus resulting from the contact
of the bird’s flesh with the wooden sur-
face of the dummy egg. The same heat-
stimulus would not be provided by con-
tact between flesh and the cool, glassy
surface of the marbles, which would not
be dissimilar to that of the real eggs.
Rejection of the Wooden dummies and the
acceptance of the marbles are both purely
instinctive, and therefore neither set of
behavior-patterns provides a measure of
the canary’s intelligence—if the bird had
any to measure. *
“M.P.”: Those canaries might have
rejected the balsa-wood eggs because of
their lightness. A bad egg is always light,
and in throwing it overboard Mrs.
Canary would merely be observing
safety-first precautions. Marbles, on the
other hand, would approximate the
correct weight.
* * * *
“Clerk’s Fee”: “Palindrome’s” list of
the 11 ways of spelling Payaparap (B.
7/11/ ’56) invites the incredulous to make
it the round dozen with “Paraperhaps.”
The S.A. town of Nuriootpa, however, is
always pronounced—and nearly always
spelt-—Nurioopta. Most dwellers in the
district simply call it Noorie. These un-
usual spellings recall when Chief Justice
Sir Samuel Way, having elicited from one
of our German cockies that he spelt his
name Pietsch, urbanely asked, “Would
you mind telling me how you spell
apricot?”
* * * *
“R.E.8.”: Johnnie, a Queensland black-
tracker, was largely responsible for find-
ing a mob of stolen cattle and the arrest
of two suspects. The detective in charge
of the case heard that outside pressure
was being put on Johnnie to corrupt his
evidence, so he took the tracker aside and
had a heart-to-heart talk with him on the
necessity for truthful testimony. At the
trial Johnnie was called to the witness-
box. Not being a Christian he didn’t
subscribe to any of the usual oaths of
honesty. The judge asked him if he
realised that he must tell the truth:
“Yes,” said the tracker. “If I tell the truth
I go to good place when I die.” “And
what happens if you tell lies?” said the
judge. The immediate reply was, “The
detective, he kick my plurry guts in.”
* * * *
“Rash”: Ever witnessed a good,
dirty, all-in cat-fight? I’ll back the
“undercat” any time. Flat on his back,
he brings all four sets of claws to bear,
unhandicapped by the necessity to use
some of his weapons for standing pur-
poses. No, in a cat-fight the “undercat”
is really the “topcat.”
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Administration of
New Guinea and Papua hasn’t been able
to keep to its programme of bringing all
parts of the territory “under control” by
the end of 1955, and the new target-date
is the end of 1959. It is claimed, how-
ever, that little more than 25,000 square-
miles of the difficult and rugged country
now remains outside full administrative
control; 8380 square-miles of that have
been penetrated only by patrols. In this
total there are three main sectors, with
a combined population of possibly more
than 100,000, and, in the words of Terri-
tories Minister Paul Hasluck, “it is con-
“Well, I'm gol-danged if I'm going back without having gotten me a trophy .”
sidered that even the minor groups must
be aware of and subject to some degree
of influence from the patrols.”
* # * #
“Bogaduck”: Strange how a bird-call
can please some people and not others.
Reading Some Common Australian Birds,
by Alan and Shirley Bell —and wishing
there had been something like it, with
similar illustrations, when I was a boy—
I find the calls of the red-wattlebird
described as: “Obstructed and dissonant
notes, rasps and harsh croaks, as if it
were a perpetual sufferer from sore
throat.” Of the little-wattlebird, Gould
is quoted as saying that the aborigines
likened its calls to the sound made by a
man when vomiting. I liv6d for years in
a spot where both species were abundant,
and I liked their calls. There always
seemed to be something cheerful and
defiant about those ringing calls of
“Kookaycock” and “Kick off! Kick off!
Brahka! Brahka!”
* * # *
“Naturala”: “ ’Ermit” is right up-to-
date with his method of “cupping” (B.
24/10/’56) with a glass jar heated with a
spot of burned metho. Early Australian
practice—till at least 1900 —favored
the bullock-horn. Filled momentarily
with boiling water, emptied and the wide
end pressed over the wound, its “drawing-
power” was to be marvelled at. It was
used mostly for boils and the occasional
snakebite. There was no need to suck
out the venom—slash well with the old
cutthroat, apply the vacuum horn and
cure was ensured. To release the hold,
which would be 161 b. to the square-inch,
a neatly fitting wooden plug in the tip
of the horn was withdrawn. Many a
"Ready, present — FIRE!"
general practitioner, doing his rounds by
horse or by buggy, carried and used the
bullock-horn. It was unbreakable, readily
cleaned, and as readily replaced.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: That Henderson (N.Z.)
barbecue (B. 31/10/’56) was a light snack
compared with the death-feast on Badu
Island provided by the sons of the late
Tipoti Nona in honor of their departed
sire. . The mourning-cwm-celebration
lasted several days and nights, during
which the villagers demolished 20 dugong
(representing three tons of beef), 20
turtle weighing about a ton, 20 mud-fat
pigs, a half-ton oP flour in the form of
dampers, and a half-ton of rice, with un-
recorded quantities of fish, crays, coco-
nuts, yams, manioca and taro. The size
of the feast was commensurate with the
social tonnage of Tipoti, a Samoan
native who came to work in the shelling
fleets in the early days and remained to
marry a Badu woman and rear a band of
six sons, none under 6ft. and all built
along the lines of Paul Robeson, to whom
they bore strong physical resemblance.
In his last days the old man delighted
me with his reminiscences of personal con-
tacts with “Tusistaia” in Samoa and his
eyewitness descriptions of the escape of
the British warship Calliope in the disas-
trous Apia hurricane which destroyed
the American and German naval units
also trapped in the harbor at the time.
* * * *
“Experienced Cook”: “B. the B.” (B.
24/10/’56) is less than just to Mrs.
Beeton’s knowledge of food-values when
he accuses her of meanness with her
Useful Soup for Benevolent Purposes.
Any good cook would tell him that the
very best stock is always made of bones,
meat and vegetables, and when skimmed
and left to set overnight forms a jelly,
the nutritive value of which is unsur-
passed. The crayfish-soup mentioned-
thdse crays would be hardly bigger than
our yabbies—is a delightful soup but with
nothing like the food-value of the despised
Useful Soup.
* * * *
“Wandana”: Manangatang (Vic.),
which earned newspaper headlines
recently when the judges at a race-meeting
had to receive protection from angry
punters, is the Mallee town where the term
“lunatic soup” was coined about 40 years
ago. The place, then commonly known
as “The Tang,” was just being opened-up,
and wine purveyed there graded from
“dynamite” and “blow-your-hat-off” to
“belltopper” brand and was pretty
potent. One glass made a man half-
dizzy and if followed by a glass of tepid
water put him in a police-cell. A local
citizen of good repute bought a glass one
hot day after bringing in a load of wheat.
Next morning in court the magistrate
asked what he’d had. Told that it was
“colonial wine,” he -snorted, “Lunatic
soup would be a better name for it! ”
* * * *
“Papalangi”: I greatly enjoyed Olaf
Ruhen’s “Eighty Bags of Betelnut” (B.
24/10/’56). The first betel-chewers I
knew were Tamils from Ceylon, a pair
of lonely exiles who had come to Queens-
land with their employer when disaster
hit the Ceylon coffee-plantations. They
called the nut “adaikai” or “araikai,” and
the leaf of the pepper-plant “vettilei” or
“bettilei”—“areca” and “betel” in
English. The fruit of the areca-palm,
Areca catechu, is called areca-nut only
in pharmacy, in which it is still used as a
vermifuge, but for chewing-purposes leaf
and nut .are both “betel.” The con-
venience of modern inter-island com-:
munication may have made some
difference, but in the old days there was
no overlapping of the two peppers, Piper
methysticum and P. betel. The islanders,
mostly Polynesians, but also Melanesian
Fijians, who drank an infusion of the
root of the former as “ava,” “kava” or
“yaqona” (yangona), did not chew betel;
and the island peoples who were betel-
addicts did not drink kava, which, like
betel, was banned by at least one religious
sect, whose missionaries stigmatised it as
“the native grog,” though a less grog-like
beverage would be very hard to find.
* * * *
“D. Tremens”: A tipple omitted from
“Hi-Fy’s” treatise on elixirs of exhilaration
(B. 17/10/’56) is “tuba” —despite official
threats of a spell in the calaboose, it is
still appreciated by a portion of the native
population of the outer isles* of Torres
Straits. The drink is always on tap for
no more trouble than slicing the green
shoots at the top of a coconut-palm and
conducting the resultant secretion through
hollow plant-stems into gourds. The
stingo goes through many phases in the
space of days. When it first distils it is
as small beer, then a heavy lager, then
something between brandy and stout, then
a potent whisky and arrack in turn. The
headache produced by “tuba” is every
bit as good as that engendered by any
product made under supervision of the
Excise people. It is advisable to descend
from the palm-top before sampling the
catch.
* * * •
“Wandana”: When they stepped
ashore at the landing-place 14 miles from
headquarters visitors to the Mitchell
River Mission (Gulf- qf Carpentaria)
used to be greeted by a tall, spindle-
shanked abo., who, wearing only a half-
size waistcoat, would proclaim, “Me
mailman! You got letter ?” After receiv-
ing a pencilled scrawl to the mission
superintendent informing him that
visitors awaited a transport-dray or truck,
he would proudly shove the missive into
a vest-pocket set off at a steady lope.
He used to make the run in record time,
too.
THE MOUNTAINS
What do they, the mountains,
When the snow
Corrals them from the Murray to the
sea?
Like silent monks
They are but come together *
For solitariness.
Under the snow
They live in the silence that makes whole.
For this they come together,
For this endure the sun.
But when the turning months inch •out
their time,
Telling eternity that winter's done,
Mountains look down through rainbows
on the plain,
Then vast and void are limited,
Then earth comes round again.
Outward the mountains look,
Raise on green shoulders the standard of
their place,
C Texture of moss,
The bannered trees, the sprawl of flowers
Asperged by glancing waterfall).
They rest by day and march at night for
spring;
See them break through the mist to
moonlight,
Coming
South.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


jFcui/i in Mie
Euiwrc
p
mm
The days of exploration will never be oyer
while a square mile of this Earth remains
untrodden; while men have the spirit to take
themselves beyond the edges of a printed chart, or
soar higher in altitude into the heavens.
Right now. above and below us in our own
sector of the globe, men are reaching out to new
comers of Creation in the interests of science and
human progress.
In Antarctica, Australians from their bases
are contributing notably to the knowledge by which
secrets of that “last continent” are being prised
from the chilliest recesses of Nature. That is a
story in itself which deserves another telling.
Up north, in Papua-New Guinea, patrols of
our Territorial service are constantly making
contact with people in tighter, remoter parts of
the island that are under Australia’s control.
And now Holland is preparing an expedition
which will leave in January, 1958. to explore the
unknown Sterrengebergte (Star Mountains), deep
in the eastern highlands of Netherlands New
Guinea.
Fifty Europeans—ten of them scientists
covering eight branches of scholarship—and
twenty Papuans will penetrate the mysteries of that
region. Aircraft have made preliminary sightings
for the six-months’ operation, and the party will
be supplied by helicopters landing on cleared strips.
So history is being woven around us, in our
time. The fruits of this work of faithful explorers,
in snowy wastes and in torrid jungles, will ripen to
future generations.
The end of all exploring is that those who
come after should use the findings well. And how
true that is of us here in Australia itself, where
there is still so much awaiting fulfilment!
As inheritors of this country we have to justify
its possession. The past proclaims it, the future
demands it; and the present, to the extent that we
Have the courage to use it, is in the cup of our hands.
y
METHODS Or
MINIMISING INCOME TAX
IS THE TITLE OF A SERIES OF THREE
ARTICLES COMMENCING IN THE DECEMBER
ISSUE OF *"RYDGE’S" BUSINESS JOURNAL
» .
YOU SHOULD SUBSCRIBE NOW. IT »S
POSTED TO YOU FOR £3/3/- A YEAR
#
•Highest circulating business magazine 44 %f£%1 Y * T \
' In the : World Ipra rata to populationl SYDNET
Business. Rollery, ETC
A.W.A.-Email
r T'HE contemplated merger of
Amalgamated Wireless and
Email produced more market
reaction in the shares of Email
(which rose a couple of shillings
to 15s. 9d.) than in those of
A.W.A. (they weakened slightly).
But Email is to make a one-for-
one bonus-issue first (A.W.A.
made its one-for-one bonus-
issue in August). Email directors
have told shareholders that they
should not expect the present
12£ p.c. div. to be maintained
on the bonus-increased capital.
Email, Ltd., has a present paid
capital of £2,816,016, all but
£lOO,OOO (6 p.c. pref. money)
in ss. ord. stock-units. Through
its own activities and those of
its subsidiaries it makes power-
generating equipment, motors,
meters and switch-gear, refriger-
ators, vacuum-cleaners, washing-
machines, stoves, heaters, gas and
electrical hot-water appliances,
radio- and television-receivers,
telephone equipment, petrol and
other i pumps, razor-blades,
plastics and chemicals.
. A.W.A., with a paid capital of
£2,225,864 in ss. stock-units, and
£741,954 of convertible notes,
makes broadcast - transmitters
(radio and TV), radar, traffic-
signalling equipment, marine-
and aerial-navigational ' equip-
ment, broadcast-receivers and
radiograms, gramophone-records,
numerous other electronic and
mechanical items, holds a
number of patents covering
specific aspects of radio, radar
and television, and controls
radio-station 2CH and is a share-
holder in Amalgamated Tele-
vision Services (station ATN,
channel 7).
Research in electronics- is
expensive. In the early days of
radio A.W.A. was closely
associated with experiment and
invention in wireless-telegraphy ;
hence its multitude of patent-
rights. But today the initiative
in electronics, TV, etc., is mainly
in the hands of other interests in
other countries, and, even though
A.W.A. Still participates in some
of these developments through
established relationships, there
would appear to be advantages
offering in a merger of the
resources of A.W.A.' and Email.
Email is of much more recent
growth than A.W.A., and its
expansion has been to a con-
siderable extent the result of
absorptions of existing busi-
nesses. But it appears to have
built solidly in the time it has
had available, and had the
advantage of a period of war-
time tooling-up and mass-
production (with depreciation
and other concessions) in order
to get its financial foundations
down fairly deep. Much of its
expansion has been met from
ploughed-back profits.
The chairman of A.E.1., Ltd.
(Sir Jack Stevens), is reported
as saying that he had no
comment to. make at this stage
on reports that his co. was con-
sidering joining-in the merger.
A.E.I. was formerly Australian
General Electric Pty., Ltd., and
until recently it was wholly
owned by a British group. Then
1,050,000 £1 shares were offered
to the Australian public at par.
Paid capital is £4,000,000, and an
interim div. has been at the rate
of 7T p.c. p.a. The scrip stands
at 28s. in the market. A.E.I.
makes a multitude of electrical
goods, including household
electrical appliances, motors and
heavy electrical equipment.
Rye Park Scheelite, N.L.
Shareholders in Rye
Park Scheelite, N.L., and
Hill 50 Central, N.L., will have
prior rights to apply for shares
in a new operating co. to be
formed *to work the Tewantin
(Q.) rutile leases recently bought
by Hill 50 Central from Rye
Park.
Hill 50 Central is paying
£50,000 in cash for the leases,
and will make a call of 9d. a
share to help finance the final
instalment of £30,000. How
much the new operating co. will
pay to Hill 5P is not clear, and
its proposed capitalisation has
yet to be announced. Pro-
duction of 100 tons of rutile a
week is planned. The area is
said by Rye Park to contain
over 30,000 tons of rutile and
about 1500 tons of monazite.
Rye Park, in July, 1955, took
an option over other mineral
sands at Laurieton (N.S.W.) and
entered into possession in
December last.
It speaks of 25,000 tons of rutile,
on less than half this property.
Up to August this year about
£50,000 had beep spent on
additional plant and equipment,
and output of rutile has recently
been averaging about half the
anticipated weekly figure of 100
tons of rutile. What problem
the co. has encountered in
attempting to reach 100 tons • a
week is not apparent.
Rye Park set-off in September,
1952, to mine scheelite at Rye
Park in N.S.W. It arranged with
its associate co., Tungsten
Consolidated, Ltd., to mill the
ore at a plant at the latter co.’s
mine at Frogmore. So far Rye
Park has spent £44,604 on this
plant and £180,531 on the Rye
Park mine. There has been no
scheelite production.
During the uranium boom
Rye Park went prospecting, and
formed the Uranium Corpora-
tion of Australia Pty. with a
paid capital of £2 and advances
from Rye Park of £22,853,
mostly spent on prospecting. Rye
Park’s own development account
at June 30 last was £60,060.
There were then advances to
Tungsten Consolidated of £5096.
Out of a paid-up capital of
£375,000 (5,000,000 2s. shares
called to Is. 6d.) the co. had
£13,610 in cash at last balance-
day. Sundry debtors then owed
£BB4, and G. D. Wharton, a
former director, £34,835 in
respect -of forfeited shares
bought by him at auction. Of
this amount £29,126 had been
repaid by Mr. Wharton at the
date of the annual report. Mr.
Wharton resigned from the Rye
Park board during the year
because of his interests in
Tungsten Consolidated.
At around 2s. 3d. a share the
market values the mixed bag of
Rye Park interests in excess of
half-a-million.
1.C.1. Issue
■EARLY in 1957 shareholders
in Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries of Australia and N.Z., Ltd.,
are to be offered a two-for-five
ord. issue at a premium of ss.
ci sh.ctro
Subscription of the 4,860,000
£1 shares will bring in £6,075,000,
“Whose idea Was it for promotion on speed and
efficiency , NOT seniority?”
and will raise I.C.L’s paid capital
to £l7 million. Because a pro-
portion of the capital will be
subscribed in Great Britain, the
issue is subject to the approval
of U.K. capital-issues control.
In North America over the
past 20 years no industry has
been as progressive as the
chemical industry, and some-
thing of the same condition of
things exists in most other
countries. The development of
the petrochemical industry has
been spectacular, and though it
has not yet settled down to
stable profit-earning (largely
because of variable markets for
products and by-products) its
influence on the chemical
industry as a whole seems bound
to be profound.
To what extent 1.C.1. is
concerned in petrochemicals isn’t
known. But it has stepped
smartly into the field of refining
titanium metals, in which Aus-
tralia is so keenly interested at
present, and it has a finger in a
multitude of other activities
which a layman would have to
think twice about before realis-
ing that their products are those
of the chemical industry.
1.C.1. ords. are classed as
front-rank stock by the share-
market, being priced at 48s. On
the present div.-rate of 9 p.c. the
yield, after taking-up the new
issue, would be 4-f p.c.
The Carnarvon Basin
[From' “Kerogen”]
TN the interval between Dr.
Woolnough’s aerial observa-
tions of part of the Carnarvon
Basin (B: 7/11/’56), indicating
anticlinal structures, and the Sub-
sequent confirmation by Clapp,
the present areas held under
exploration-licence by Wapet,
nearly all the Kimberleys, and
the greater part of the area
from Geraldton north and east
to the N.T. boundary, wese held
under the then W.A. Petroleum
Act by me.
Even at that early stage ot
oil-search, the known though
meagre—information respecting
Nor’-Westralia was sufficiently
attractive to draw the attention
of the Royal Dutch-Shell group
to its oil possibilities, and I was
successful in arranging a take-
over” agreement by that
group for reconnaissance-work
in the areas.
No less an authority than the
world-famous Dr. Heim, Swiss
geologist (whose work on the
alpine structure of Europe had
been classical), and his party
spent many months in the region
before looking at ojher parts
of Australia.
Unfortunately Heim’s con-
clusions were unfavorable, and
in the words of the rejection-
letter from the chairman of the
Royal Dutch-Shell, “their experts
could offer no reasons for con-
sidering that oil deposits of any
magnitude would be discovered
in nor’-west Australia.”
This opinion undoubtedly set
back the clock for oil-explora-
tion in the region some 30 years.
Prior to the strike at Exmouth
Gulf in December, 1953, Frank
Reeves had written a general
paper on “Oil in Australia”' for
the A.A.P.G., rather discounting
both the Carnarvon Basin and
the Kimberleys, although much
published and official data from
the Bureau of Mineral Resources
(and privately) were available
expressing more favorable
opinions.
The situation to-date may be
much as L. Owen indicates and
deduces, but there could be a
simpler explanation especially if
the high-wax “crude” so far
discovered is not “migratory”
(using that term in its strictest
sense).
Hypothetical sections across
the Rough Range (north and
south) area show an oil-
concentration at Nos. 1 and 1a
and a faulted area south there-
from. Could this structure
represent a small “crest” con-
centration with migration and
concentration pre-dating the
faulting? If so, failure to strike
oil against the fault would be
expected. If “en echelon” struc-
tures are the general rule, then
decision to go west and north
in the hopes of locating better
(Continued on next page)


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Inetitutions throughout Australia
bf
JACKSON 4
, KTCUft ,
e: »ai>S
TWADf
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LEIT ERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHER^
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSER!
PttGiO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS ‘
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
m
Thanks to
NEO-
BARREBE
-No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BARR ERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by-
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BAKRERE DISTKIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3a), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydnev
lajWi
<4-.
«gHS
U 4$ y ’i
,-. ■
r,i
4
rt
S\
BUDGETING
... an A.N.Z. Cheque Account
much more convenient
Let responsibility rest gently upon your
daughter’s shoulders. Encourage her to save
her money, to budget well, to pay her
accounts by cheque.
* By using her regular Bank statement she sees
the cumulative effect of small transactions and
is provided with a sound basis and incentive
for long-term budgeting.
* Using an A.N.Z. cheque account has helped
many girls to develop confidence and a
business-like attitude towards financial matters
in general.
Why not solve that gift problem by starting
an A.N.Z. cheque account for your daughtef
or for any other member of your family?
A-N-Z
hhb
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW 1 ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 850 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London.
Agents throughout the World.
•ANZ. »4.245<
96 PAGE INSTRUCTIVE
PHOTO GUIDE AND
CATALOGUE ONLY 3/-
96 pages of valuable in-
structions, hints and clear
description of all well-
known cameras and photo
accessories will help you
select the equipment to
improve the quality of your
photos.
Send this coupon to Good-
man Bros., 20 Hunter St.,
Sydney, and enclose a
three-shilling postal note or
three shillings’' worth of
stamps, and we will send
you our Photo Guide and
Catalogue by return mail.
COUPON!
Please send me your Photo
Guide and Catalogue by return.
I enclose a three ' shilling
postal note (or three shillings’
worth of stamps).
Address
T. 8.1
“Rough Ranges” is com-
mendable.
In any case', much more needs
to be known about our coastal
regions and the continental shelf
generally, and “stepping-out”
exploratory drilling in the
Carnarvon Basin will be a good
way to find out.
MAORiLAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
tEARS that the Maoriland
•* Government’s disinflation
policy is leading to unemploy-
ment have been expressed by
Labor spokesmen. The Federa-
tion of Labor executive says that
“industries are closing down,
overtime is being curtailed and
there is evidence of unemploy-
ment.”
There is an element —but only
a small element of truth in
these statements.
It is true that in the woollen,
footwear, building and some
other industries there have been
dismissals of staff and reductions
of overtime and bonus pay-
ments. *
At the end of July, the latest
date for which official statistics
are available, registered un-
employed numbered 487 against
58 a') year before. Notified
vacancies, however, were still
11,686, against 14,607 a year
before.
Not “Unemployment”
That is not unemployment,
and there is plainly no reason,
except perhaps political, for any
“scare” talk.
Following Labor complaints
in the House that people were
being thrown out of work and
that thousands of pounds’ worth
of machinery was lying idle as
a result of Government policy,
an urgent survey was made
through all Labor Department
offices.
It showed that, except in
Auckland, the position was
satisfactory for the time of year,
when seasonal factors always
cause some changes in the
employment pattern.
Persons enrolled for employ-
ment in August numbered 496,
but the fact that only 55 were
in receipt of .social-security
unemployment-benefit indicated
that the time between one job
and another was short.
, The return to a more normal
balance in the employment
situation will, after many years
of overfull employment, be
fought tooth-and-nail by the less-
well-informed section of Labor.
That is, perhaps, understand-
able. Memories of the depres-
sion of the ’thirties die hard.
The Curse of “Overfull”
Nonetheless, the fact remains
that the overfull employment
which has prevailed since the
war has been a curse, not a
blessing, to labor as well as
management, to everyone, in
fact, except perhaps the rank
incompetent and the blatant
slacker.
Those .it has protected and
encouraged, and, in doing so,
has raised costs all round. The
honest worker, tempted from
job to job by higher wages, has
seen his growing pay-packet
buying less and less.
If in future workers have to
mo\f from one job to another
to §uit the needs of industry they
will have no cause for complaint.
The idea that “full employ-
ment” means that every person
should be guaranteed a
permanent job in the occupation
of his choice is, of course,
preposterous. Yet a Labor
member recently asked in the
House if the Government would
“take steps to maintain full
employment in local assembly-
plants.”
Lord Beveridge accepted a
conception of full employment
which included 3 per cent, of
unemployed. That proportion
would not be acceptable in New
Zealand. Even 1 per cent, would
represent 8000 workers. But it
should be plain that, if industry
is to function efficiently, there
must always be some unemploy-
ment as workers move to meet
changing conditions.
The governor of the Reserve
Bank, E. C. Fussell, summed up
the situation when he said that
there was no way of defeating
inflation without ridding the
country’s economy of the canker
of overfull employment and
without the consequent
temporary displacement of
workers who had no wish to
change from one job to another.
Mild Recession
Company reports coming to
hand week by week tell an
increasingly plain story of a mild
internal trade-recession.
Of eight N.Z. company
balance-sheets published in one
recent week, six recorded profit-
falls, two rises. Dividends of
these eight companies were:
Steady, four; down, three ; up,
one.
Unpleasing though these
results must be to shareholders
directly concerned, they should
not give rise to any general
alarm. They can be accepted as
evidence that the operation of
trimming some of the inflationary
fat off the national economy is
being successfully carried out.
How necessary that operation
is has been emphasised in
repeated and increasingly blunt
warnings by farming-industry
leaders as well as Government
spokesmen.
The Commissioner of Works,
Mr. F. M. Hanson, said recently
that N.Z. could not continue
living on the crest of a wave Of
luxury.
The chairman of the N.Z.
Co-operative Dairy Co., Ltd.,
Mr. A. Hayward, said that an
almost insane desire for fast
development had caused the
economy to deteriorate in such a
way that, unless prompt steps
were taken to hold costs down,
there was a grave danger of N.Z.
pricing itself out of overseas
markets.
In brief the facts are: Britain
must expand her export trade.
To do so she must cut costs. To
do that she must buy food in the
cheapest market. World supplies
of farm-produce are increasing.
To compete successfully N.Z.
must hold its costs down.
Credit-squeeze Continues
The latest official pronounce-
ment on the credit-squeeze, the
main weapon in the disinflation-
ary fight, came from the
governor of the Reserve Bank.
He said that the course of
economic events between now
and the end of the year would
determine whether there would
be either a little tightening-up or
a little easing-off, but that,
“miracles apart, when we pass
out of 1956 into the new year
the credit-squeeze will still be
with us, substantially in its
present form.”
Forestry Shares
The easing of forestry-share
prices, referred to in this column
two weeks ago, has continued.
N.Z. Forest Products reported
an £81,036 rise in net profit to a
record £528,842, equal to 5.8
per cent, of shareholders’ funds,
against 5.2 per cent, the previous
year.
The shares eased back a little
after the results were published.
If any disappointment was felt
at the omission of an ordinary
dividend it was unjustified,
because the company had
indicated that there would be
none till “after 1957.”
Meantime the company is
wisely continuing to take full
advantage of special deprecia-
tion tax-allowances. To fail to
do so would simply be to make
a present of the shareholders’
money to the Government.
Total depreciationiwritten-off to
date is £3,075,738, including
£1,204,631 “special.” For the
last year ordinary depreciation
took £482,311, “special”
£376,536. Special depreciation
provision can be expected to
taper-off fairly sharply soon.
Investors may still be some-
what daunted by the size of the
company’s expansion pro-
gramme, which “is likely to
require the progressive expendi-
ture of several millions of
pounds spread over some years
ahead” and which will tend to
limit dividend possibilities.
Against this, reserve for develop-
ment now amounts to £2 million,
after receiving another £500,000
from last year’s profits.
Timber Fall-off
The directors confirm that
demand for timber and building-
materials has fallen-off on both
N.Z. and Australian markets.
They state that they have no
clear indication of the likely
extent of this trend, but assume
that it is “a passing reconstruc-
tive phase following a long
period of favorable trading
conditions.”
Whakatane Board’s results,
available so far only in an
incomplete preliminary state-
ment by the company, looked
rather grim at first, but
improved on second reading.
The net-profit fall of £73,566
to £40,376 was a shock, but the
figure was arrived at after pro-
vision of £125,481 more for
depreciation at £202,130.
The company should state
how much of this amount is for
ordinary and how much for
special depreciation. In last
year’s accounts the split was not
given. Presumably a large pro-
portion of the £202,130 is for
special depreciation on plant,
which must be set aside in the
first few years after capital
expenditure to qualify for tax-
concession. As in the case of
Forest Products, it would be
folly not to take full advantage
of the concession while it is
available. Meantime, however,
the disclosed net profit of £40,376
is only about half the amount
required to meet the 5 p.c.
(reduced from 6 p.c.) dividend
on ordinary and preference
capital, and dividend-equalisa-
tion reserve is called on for
£40,000.
Gross profit, £15,431 down at
£356,161, probably provides the
best indication of the year’s
results. The fall here appears
to be attributed by the company
to teething-troubles with new
plant, which, the chairman said
recently, were gradually being
eliminated.
Tasman Pulp and Paper
Tasman Pulp and Paper shares
have been down to 235. 3d.,
6s. 9d. below their peak. London
buying, which for so long
supported these shares, has fallen
away.
The use of conditional sale of
land as an ingenious method of
raising finance without the con-
sent of the Capital Issues Com-
mittee has now been blocked by
the Government. Formerly a
company could, without
approaching the committee, sell
property, reserving to itself the
right of possession and repur-
chase. Now such sales are
brought under the -control of the
committee. The stable-door is
thus locked after McKenzies
Department Stores got out with
£305,000.


Safeguard
your Estate
mn
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
incorporated in Victoria in 1878
TR39.35
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will.
Advantages: Security . . . Continuity . . . Expert Management . . .
Impartiality ... Accessibility ... Secrecy ... Continuous Audit. . . Moderate
Charges . . . Fidelity to Trust. •
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G.,
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme;
DS O M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
R H Norman, D. 5.0.. M.C., V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer;
. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
K.C.8.,
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Myer Emporium, Ltd.
■pROM its massive head-office in Mel-
bourne’s Bourke-street the Myer
Emporium, Ltd., controls tangible assets
reckoned in the group’s balance-sheet at
nearly £25 million.
The largest retail organisation in the
Commonwealth, Myer’s completed an
eventful year last July. The co. acquired
McWhirters, Ltd., Brisbane, with the issue
of scrip to a face-value of £937,500 and
£562,500 in cash, disposed of part of its
holding in Myer (S.A.), Ltd., at a capital
profit of £366,182, and added a further
£1,456,273 to reserves by writing-up (to
par) the balance of its holding in the S.A.
co. and its interest ih Economic Holdings,
Ltd., an associated finance concern.
Wendouree Knitting Mills (Vic.) and
department-stores at Geelong and Ballarat
are, with Myers (S.A.) and McWhirters,
the principal subsidiary cos. in the group.
A controlling-interest in W. E. Bird, Ltd.
(Sydney), was bought during the year
(mainly for its import-licences and other
incidental assets), while other small sub-
sidiaries and production units (the largest
a furniture factory at Footscray, Vic.)
assist the operations of the group.
A one-for-one bonus-issue in 1951, fol-
lowing revaluation of fixed assets,
added £1,750,000 to paid capital, subse-
quent issues, mainly in exchange for
asseffc other than cash, bringing the total
to £5,271,619, of which £655,450 carries a
fixed 9 p.c. and £99,500 is in staff-partner-
ship shares.
Well equipped and financially strong,
the group achieved satisfactory results
during the rather difficult year completed
July 31. Turnover increased by over £5
million, and, with MdWhirters’ figures
included for the first time, “sales over the
counter” exceeded £46 million. Higher
taxes, wages and expenses made trading
more expensive, however, and the
£105,187 increase in group-earnings
(£1,118,287, after deducting £229,425
minority interest) was less than the net
profit earned by McWhirters in the pre-
vious term. An amount of £448,324 (up
£7907) was charged for depreciation, while
the £1,519,475 provision for taxation (up
£294,149) suggests a somewhat conserva-
tive statement of earnings. The earnings
covered the pref. and employee divs. and
23.3 p.c. on ofd. capital, compared with
26.7 p.c. in the previous term.
The parent co. claimed a net profit of
£897,100 (up £106,329), after charging
£289,726 (down £4003) for depreciation
and providing a substantial £980,000 (up
£150,000) for taxation:
Parent Only.
f Dividends s To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total.f serves.serves.*
£ £ £ £
’52.. 351,590 9 p.c. 7Jp.c. 331,524 20,066 3,763,394
Added stock reserve, £35,000 .. 3,7)98,394
Tax underprovided, £10,875 .. .. 3,7'87,519
*63.. 612,951 9 p.c. lOp.c. 419,961 192,990 3,980,509
Stock-fluctuation reserve, £lOO,OOO .. 4,080,509
Tax overprovided, £23,436 .« .. 4,103,945
'54.. 737,068 9 p.c. 12*p.c. 508,398 228,670 4,332,615
Stock-fluctuation reserve, £lOO,OOO .. 4,432,615
Tax underprovided, £4658 .. . . 4,427,957
From marine-insurance fund, £250,000 4,677,957
To staff-fund reserve, £50,000 .. 4,727,957
’55.. 790,771 9 p.c. 15p.c. 596,835 193,936 4,921,893
Tax overprovided, £17,037 .. -. 4,938,930
Profit sale assets and revalua-
tion, £1,822,455 6,761,885
’56.. 897,100 9 p.c. 15p.c. 742,412 154,688 6,916,073
* After deducting goodwill (£250,000).
t Including staff partner and employee shares.
The parent collected an extra £99,598 (to
£202,020) in dividends and repeated the
previous term’s 15 p.c. distribution to
ord.-shareholders. Scrip issued during
the term carried the full 15 p.c. div.
The revaluation of investments, capital
profits and the £154,688 from earnings
brought a voluminous increase in
reserves: —
Capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. .. £655,450 £655,450 £655,450
Ord. . . 3,687,000 3,687,000 4,616,169
Reserves .. 4,582,615 6,171,893 7,166,073
Mortgages .. 2,105,000 2,065,000 1,980,000
Notes . . .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Deposits .. 760,397 702,382 1,213,078
Overdraft .. 201,282 248,824 202,135
Creditors .. 1,510,813 1,421,620 1,973,413
Tax provision. . 700,000 830,000 980,000
Final div. .. 324,896 383,854 489,306
£15,527,463 £16,165,823 £20,275,624
Freeholds, etc. 4,081,674 4,207,561 4,425,643
Plant, etc. .. 1,163,561 1,118,753 1,201,414
Investments .. 1,467,868 1,667,391 4,522,509
Stocks .. .. 3,489,739 3,621,228 3,933,072
Debtors . . 2,980,010 3,411,049 3,535,360
Owing by subsids. 1,700,062 950,403 1,119,696
Cash, deposits, etc. 394,639 1,039,438 1,287,930
Intangibles . . 250,000 250,000 250,000
£15,527,453 £16,165,823 £20,275,624
The installation of, new escalators and
other improvements to the main store
were responsible for most of the £218,082
added to freeholds (shown at 1950 valua-
tion and cost) and the £82,661 increase in
the cost-/m-depreciation value of plant.
A large new bulk-store is now under con-
struction near Melbourne, and its com-
pletion is expected to lead to more
efficient handling of the great quantity
of merchandise bought annually by the
group. Deposits with the co. increased by
£510,896 to £1,213,078 (most of which
has, in turn, been lent, to Economic Hold-
ings, Ltd.), and an additional £551,793
was owing to creditors at balance-date.
Working-capital fell by £417,512 to
£5,018,126.
The market values the ord.-share-
holders’ equity in the business at over
£l3 million, pricing the f.-p. ss. shares at
14s. lOd. to return 5 p.c. from a 15 p.c.
distribution, the well-backed £1 9 p.c.
prefs. yielding 6.2 p.c. at 28s. 9d. The
group net tangible assets give the ords. a
backing of 12s. lOd.
_ %
F. H. Faulding and Co., Ltd.
THE 1956 term was a less profitable
one for wholesale druggist and manu-
facturing chemist F. H. Faulding and
Co., Ltd. Combined earnings of parent
and subsidiaries, after providing for
depreciation and all other contingencies
and an estimated £51,300 (down £15,300)
for taxation, were down to £83,895, a fall
of £21,148 (or about 25 p.c.) on the
previous year, notwithstanding a “con-
siderable” increase in sales:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends—--, To Re- Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.*
30, _ 6 & 5 p.c. 7 p.c.
£/ £/ £ £ £
Added reserves, £156 .. .. 158,525
1950 .. 53,668 10,460 25,■697 17,511 168,681
Added reserves, £9B .. .. .. 158,779
Share premiums, £55,065 .. .. 213,844
8 p.c.
1951 . . 63,317 10,460 34,324 18,533 232,377
Share premiums, £60,706 .. .. 283,083
Added reserves, £l6O .. .. 283,243
1952 . . 49,336 10,460 39,252 282,867
Added reserves, £9210 .. ~ 292,077
7 p.c.
1953 . . 58,954 10,460 43,428 5,066 297,143
Added reserves, £ll7 .. .. .• 297,260
8 p.c. .
1954 .. 99,882 10,460 49,632 39,790 337,050
Share premiums, £1966 .. .. 339,016
Profit sale assets, £12,000 .. . . 351,016
1965 .. 105,043 10,460 49,947 44,636 395,652
Profit sale assets, £4034 .. .. 399,686
1956 ~ 83,895 10,460 49,947 23,488 423,174
* Subject to intangibles, £20,127 at 30/6/’56.
The figure covered the £10,460 required
for the £201,600 of pref. capital (an
average of only a shade under 5.2 p.c.
over both classes), and 11.8 p.c. on the
ordinaries, which also had the support
of £423,172 reserves. As a percentage
of the total of these funds also (capital
and reserves together) the profit was
slightly less than 5.2 p.c. So, despite
the drop, the 8 p.c. div. was maintained
fairly comfortably. At least, the share-
market wasn’t counting on anything
better, and the price of the ord. scrip on
’Change has held fairly steady at around
295. for a return of 5.5 p.c.
The business was started up in
Adelaide more than a century ago, and
later extended to Perth, Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane. In 1947 it was
put on to a public-company basis.
Factories are situated in Adelaide, Sydney
and Perth, and a London office takes care
of import needs.
With a fast-growing population and
a higher individual consumption of
pharmaceuticals, Australian production of
these preparations has risen steadily since
the war (though overseas competition hit
business hard in 1952 and 1953). An
important factor contributing to the
industry’s good progress in recent years
has been the Commonwealth health
scheme, though, because of steady rises
in the cost of labor and materials and
the need to keep prices on a competitive
basis, some of the bloom has gone off the
boon.
To consolidate its position the com-
pany is engaged in a big research pro-
gramme to enlarge and improve its range
of products, and work has nearly been
completed in providing adequate ware-
house and/or factory accommodation in
all the mainland States. Renovation of
the Melbourne warehouse was finished
last year, and completion of the new
Brisbane building is expected by about
the end of December. In Sydney property
was bought adjoining the existing Redfern
building to care for future expansion:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Ist pref. .. £38,000 £BB,OOO £38,000
2nd pref. .. 163,600 163,600 163,600
Ord 620,404 624,3,88 624,338
Reserves .. .. 337,050 395,651 423,173
Mortgages.. .. 51,050 51,050 117,550
Overdraft, etc. .. 137,039 441,639 574,928
Creditors .. 168,312 621,010 396,506
Tax provision .. 69,800 68,222 53,245
Final div. .. 38,148 33,325 33,325
£1,908,403 £2,436,836 £2,424,665
Freehold .. .. 374,108 398,602 472,726
Plant . . . . 121,440 139,932 159,842
Shares .. .. 132 132 132
Stocks, etc. .. 896,202 1,230,061 1,123,394
Debtors .. . . 490,441 641,849 642,194
Cash, etc. . . 6,953 6,132 6,250
Intangibles . . 20,127 20,127 20,127
£1,908,403 £2,436,835 £2,424,665
To finance these additions, new plant
costing £19,910 and to reduce the amount
owing to creditors by £224,504, the co.
borrowed an extra £133,289 from the
bank, £66,500 on mortgage and worked-
down stocks £106,667 to £1,123,394.
When the books closed the surplus of
more-or-less liquids representing work-
ing-capital was £733,961. Net tangible
asset backing (on conservative values) was
£32 6s. lOd. the first prefs., £7 ss, 7d.
seconds and 325. lid. the ords.
Hardie Rubber Co., Ltd.
THE check delivered to the motor
industry by the twin Federal measures
of import-controls and sales-tax has
inevitably been reflected in recent tyre-
production statistics, and output in the
1957 term at present has the appearances
of being rather less than the record level
reached last year. Nevertheless production
is still very high, and the growing replace-
ment demand should help sustain it at
around current levels. Introduction of
tubeless tyres has had a more funda-
mental effect, and tube output last year
was down by nearly 23 p.c.:
June Tyres, Tubes, June Tyres, Tubes,
30, ’OOO. ’OOO. 30, ’OOO. ’OOO.
1951 . . 2,245 1,960 I 1954 . . 2,890 2,491
1952 . . 2,577 2,070 1955 . . 3,515 3,095
1953 .. 1,687 1,557 ] 1956 .. 3,594 2,388
In size of paid capital Hardie ranks third
among the country’s four tyre-manufac-
turers. It was begun in 1924 to take
over the business of Colonial Rubber Co.,
Ltd., which had earlier been acquired by
James Hardie and Co., Ltd. In 1946 it
bought the Progress Rubber Co. Pty., Ltd.
Along with car, truck and tractor tyres the
co. makes waterproof-garments and foot-
wear, tennis-shoes, garden and industrial
hose, and rubber components for cars,
refrigerators, etc., and general industrial
use. Since the war the main plants at
Paddington and Auburn (in Sydney) have
been enlarged and footwear factories
opened at Thirroul and Beliambi on the
NSW. South Coast. To finance the out-
lay since 1951 shareholders have put up
£824,831 in ord. capital at par, the last
£334,570 of which was gathered
in around the close of last
term. Earlier in the year Hardie took
over’Queenslander General Rubber Co.,
Ltd., a large tyre-merchant, retreader and
manufacturer of general rubber goods,
and a number of other subsidiaries dealing
mainly in tyres and retreading. Cost to
Hardie in terms of the par-value of scrip
issued was £377,236, including £116,108
of 51 p.c. prefs. Including as it did eleven
retail outlets, the General Rubber deal
will particularly strengthen the co. s
selling organisation in the northern State.
Including the post-acquisition profits ot
the new subsidiaries, consolidated earn-
ings of the group, after charging £103,996
for depreciation and an unstated amount
for income tax, were £104,152:
Parent Co.
s- Dividends ,To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. , serves, serves.,
8 H' C '* £ £ £
1951.. 93,051 3062 8 p.c. = 34,000 65,389 243,368
1952 04 505 3602 8 ~ 40,667 20,176 263,044
1953!.' 58’,759 3062 8„ „ 54,001 1,096 264,640
Tax overprovided, £11»843 .. • • 21 6,840
1954.. 71,152 3662 8 p.c. = 54,000 13,490 289,9,3
Assets revalued, £677,048 .. •• 90f,021
1955.. 79,097 3662 8 p.c. = 73,22 1 2,2 1 4 9 6 9,235
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Add difference between purchase-price
and book-value of assets acquired in
subsidiaries, £42,658 .. .. 1,011,793
K Dividends -v
, Pref. \ Ord.
9 8 p.c.* 54 p.c. 8 p.c.
1956.. 3 662 3193 83,196 14,102 1,025,89 a
* Participating with ords. to 10 p.c.
■f Subject to intangibles, £9604 at 30/6/ 06.
After covering the increased pref. charge
the remaining profit was equal to 9.4 p.c.
on average ordinary capital employed.
Ord. div., held at 8 p.c., absorbed all but
£14,102 of the divisible surplus. In a
full year an 8 p.c. distribution on the
£1,510,969 of ords. would require
£120,878, or £23,581 more than was avail-
able last term. Arising from the term’s
acquisitions, £42,558, representing the
excess of book-value of assets acquired
in the subsidiaries over the purchase-
price, was added to reserves.
During the year funds employed in the
business increased by just on a third: •
CON-
f Parent , solidated.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref .. £45,773 £45,773 £161,881
Old 289,973 969,235 1.388,146
Reserves . . . . 675,010 915,271 1,020,895
Outside interests .. 3,971
Application money 160,136 - n „_ 0
Mortgages.. .. 282,000 272,000
Notes .. .. —05,00 a
Creditors, etc. . . 939,903 1,379,746 l.^^’^lg
Final divs. .. 28,831 38,442 51,608
£2,421,626 £3,620,467 £4,826,560
e4S - BS2
Sharps —— ——5,00 U
Stock 1,277,512 1,492,901 1,878.680
Debtors .. . . 484,578 608,874 836,200
Intangibles .. 9,604 9,604
£2,421,626 £3,620,467 £4,826,560
Including £122,823 cash for the new share-
issue received after June 30, working-
capital was £1,041,179.
With an eye to the rather sluggish
earning-rate the market prices the £1
ords. at 245., to return 6.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. Net asset cover for the shares
is 335. 3d. Rarely seen on ’Change the
prefs. are backed by £l6 10s. Bd. of net
tangibles a share.
Streets Ice Cream, Ltd.
POORER results from a couple of other
companies in the same line of
business made the sharemarket a little
nervous of Streets’ scrip earlier this year.
It had its confidence renewed when the
co. announced a 16.5 p.c. increase in
profit, addition of an extra point to its
dividend (raising it to 14 p.c.), and a one-
for-four share-issue at par.
Ex-rights; the £1 ords. currently fetch
445. to return 6.4 p.c. on the basis of a
14 p.c. div. Trading in the rights has
held fairly steady at around 225.
Allowing for brokerage and the 20s. due


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys. 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... 2/,-
Yearly 22i.6
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
A gents for
Bapid Magnetting Machines,
George Kitison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Miters, Steam Valves,
etc.
5,
m
L
m
LIFE ASSURANCE
'ezvice
FOR
YEARS
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
WC.IM O'UMB IU»,
The
Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
V
'
A coat
you will be proud to wear
By special arrangement with the famous
Crusader Mills, Stamina has secured a
specially attractive range of Pure Wool,
Fancy Worsted Sports Coatings. Master-
tailored in the very latest style, as only
Stamina can, these All-Purpose Coats are
now available for your selection.
You will find they are ideal for every
wear everywhere. Specially designed to
give you comfort, they are without doubt
Australia’s outstanding value.
These Stamina All-Purpose Coats are so
made that you should get 5 or 6 years’
„ wear from them.
ASK FOR ■
Stcumna
dp or is ion is
S TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
to the co., the return on the fulfy-
paid scrip would be about the
same. The new shares, which
are payable in full on application
by November 30 (or 50 p.c. down
and the rest by March 31 next),
will not participate in the 1957
interim div., but they will rank
for the full amount of the final
dividend (last term raised fFom
7 p.c. to 8 p.c.).
Planning on sound Ijnes and
financing its growth very largely
from its own resources, the co.
has captured, a sizeable part of
the ice-cream market in N.S.W.
In 1955 it put its share at about
a third, compared with a little
under a quarter in 1951. Total
ice-cream consumption in the
State has picked up steadily in
the last few years, though not
to the level reached in 1952:
Ice-cream Production in N.S.W.
Gallons. Gallons.
1951 . . 7,711,000 I 1954 . . 5,525,000
1952 . . 7,937,000 | 1955 . . 6,050,000
1953 . . 5,322,000 | 1956 . . 6,230,000
The business comprises the
parent co., Streets, which got off
to a start in the N.S.W. South
Coast town of Corrimal 36 years
ago, and Lynams Ice Cream
Pty., Ltd., taken over in 1950,
which operates west of Sydney
in Parramatta- and the fast-
growing areas of Penrith and
St. Marys. Another offshoot, Ice
Cream Messengers Pty., Ltd.,
concentrates on distribution of
the product mainly on a weekend
and house-to-house basis.
Despite be 1 o w-a ver a g e
weather, sales exceeded £l|
million last term, and, after
depreciation (£20,074 higher at
£53,500), and taxation (up
£37,600 to £109,500), the co.
claimed a net profit of £150,408,
up £21,313, and equal to 34.6
p.c. on paid capital, as against
29.7 p.c. in 1955 :
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
June, Profit. K Dividend N serves.*
£< & &
1952.. 28,402 5 p.c. = 21,766 147,558
1953.. 86,274 11 „ „ 47,887 185,946
Parent and Subsidiary.
Add subsid. reserves, £262.. 186,207
Tax overprovided, £17,639 .. 208,846
1954. .120,329 12 p.c. = 52,239 271,936
To staff fund, £3OOO . . 268,936
1955.. 129.095 13 p.c. = 56,593 341,438
Unexplained addition, £2824 3^4,262
1956. .150,408 14 p.c. = 60,946 433,724
* Subject to intangibles, £74,263 at
30/6/’56.
Some very effective cost-cutting
notwithstanding, the return on
sales was a little less, at 9.75
p.c., than for the two previous
years.
The co. is strongly established
in the South Coast and Southern
Tablelands regions, and present
plans are aimed at expanding its
activities .in the Sydney metro-
politan area and to the northern
and western districts of the
State. Land has been bought at
Newcastle and leasehold premises
acquired at Gosford for a depot
which will cover the intervening
district. Further additions are
being made to the factories at
Corrimal, Parramatta and
Turrella (already claimed to be
one of the biggest and most
modern in the industry), and the
Penrith depot.
The financial structure is very
comfortable:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956.
Paid capital ..£435,330 £435,380
Reserves . . .. 341,438 433,724
Creditors . . .. 74,673 52,022
Tax provision .. 73,077 111,106
Staff fund . . . . 3,000 5,236
Final divs 30,473 34,826
£957,991 £1,072,244
Freeholds .. .. 308,194 336,844
Plant, etc. .. .. 444,719 470,064
Stock .. . . 76,341 94,113
Debtors, etc. .. 40,203 46,442
Cash .. .. 14,271 50,518
Intangibles . . .. 74,263 74,263
< £957,991 £1,072,244
When the books closed there
was only Is. 2d. of outside
money in the business for every
£ belonging to shareholders.
Disregarding any extra profits
earned by the new capital, net
tangible asset cover on comple-
tion of the issue will be 335. 2d.
a share.
Peko Mines, N.L.
THE second year of continuous
production at the Peko
mine (Tennant Creek, N.T.)
produced some highly satisfac-
tory results. There was a big
leap in indicated (but not proven)
ore reserves, mine output of
copper-ore was increased from
100 to 200 tons a day, earnings
equalled 56.4 p.c. on paid capital,
and an initial 40 p.c. div. was
allocated for shareholders.
Taking advantage of the high
copper prices (peak £537 10s. in
April, ’56), the co. has con-
centrated on production rather
than exploratory work, no
extension of the lead-zinc
mineralised zone being found,
while drilling in the eastern
leases failed to reveal ore of
economic interest. Provetl ore
reserves above the 530 ft.-level
amount to 207,000 tons of ore,
estimated at 9.9 p.c. copper. The
much larger indicated reserves,
below the 530 ft.-level, are
reckoned at 878,000 tons going
7.5 p.c. copper. It is expected
that a large proportion of these
indicated reserves will be proved
during the current year, and this
will give investors the oppor-
tunity of valuing the mine with
greater confidence than is
possible at present.
Formed seven years Ago as
Peko (Tennant Creek) Gold
Mines, N.L., the co. has a paid
capital of £784,161 in 6,273,287
f.-p. 2s. 6d. stock-units. In 1955
the capital of Cloncurry
Uranium, N.L., was acquired by
the issue of Peko scrip to a
face-value of £84,166. At the
end of last term “capital profits
reserve” stood at £94,091, repre-
senting the surplus on realisation
of' portion of the Cloncurry
assets.
New plant and underground
development is,, expected to
provide a daily throughput of
300 tons of ore by early 1957,
increasing to 400 tons by the end
of that year.
Last term the mine delivered
51,186 tons of rich (8.54 p.c.)
ore (up 29,611 tons), the mill
treating 51,000 tons (up 27,308
tons) for the following concen-
trates :
Concentrates.
• , —Assay \
Copper, Gold, Silver,
Year. Tons. p.c. Oz. Oa.
1955 . . 6,465 23.56 0.52 1.5
1956 . . 16,321 25.09 0.52 1.6
The concentrates processed at
Port Kembla by the Electrolytic
Refining and Smelting Co. had
a metal content of:
Copper, Gold, Silver,
Year. Tons. Oz. Oz.
1955 .. .. 1,523 3,359 12,210
1956 . . '. . 4,095 8,496 24,482
In association with other Aus-
tralian copper-producers, Peko
has co-operated with the
C.5.1.R.0. in experiments into
the electrowinning of copper
from fluosolid calcines. It is
intended that treatment of the
concentrate will eventually be
carried out by the co., but no
decision has yet been announced
as to when this will take place or
what process will be used. Once
sufficient ore reserves are proved
a definite statement can be
expected.
Net profit for the term, after
providing £140,000 for future
taxation liabilities and £166,058
for redemption and depreciation,
amounted to £422,615:
Revenue— 1956. 1956.
Mine .. .. 1,966,928
Sundry .. .. 1,008
£324,298* £1,967,936
Mining 1 costs .. 208,483 383,189
Transport costs . . 402,839
Refining, smelter
charges, etc. .. 394,438
Expenses and provs. 71,197 224,855
Taxation .. .. — 1 140,000
£279,680 £1,545,321
Net profit .. .. £44,618 £422,615
Dividends . . 313,361
* Net proceeds after deducting transport
and smelter charges, etc.
The £422,615 was £377,997
higher than the previous term’s
earnings, and higher production
led to a lowering of operating
costs.
High copper prices con-
tributed to the success of last
term’s operations, and the co.’s
earnings must, of course, be
affected by price-movements.
However, an annual production
of “around 10,000 tons of
copper metal” is considered
possible by the board in the
next few years, and proceeds
from the sale of this quantity of
metal even at a reduced price
should be sufficient to ensure a
comfortable income, while the
establishment of a metal-reduc-
tion plant would cut transport
and operating costs.
Pricing the f.-p. 2s. 6d. units
at 9s. 6d., the market values the
mine at almost £3,000,000.


Womew’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The supreme moment of an exciting
week —when, from a huge golden
cauldron at the main stadium, the golden
flame burst into life as the Olympic
Torch, carried by the last of the long line
of relay-runners, was plunged in.
There were other stirring events before
the Torch was lighted: The arrival of
the Duke of Edinburgh; the playing of
the massed bands and their march (which
concluded with the formation of
Olympic-circles); and the moment when
the teams of 69 nations began their
splendid march into the arena.
Deafening cheers greeted the teams,
with an extra-prolonged one for the
Hungarians ; and there was obvious pride
among the 100,000 spectators in the
cheers they gave Australia’s own team
when, marching with perfect precision,
they came in as the guest-nation, last of
all.
Mr. Avery Brundage, as president of
the International Olympic Committee,
invited the Duke to open the Games, and
at his final , word 5000 pigeons were
released and flew for a few moments high
above the stadium before winging their
way home. There swiftly followed the
dedication of the Games by the Arch-
bishop of Melbourne, Dr. J. J. Booth, and
the taking of the Olympic oath on behalf
of all the competing athletes by Australia’s
John Landy.
The smoothness of the running of this
giant piece of organisation was evident
on every hand, and no smallest detail
seemed to have been overlooked.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a distinguished gathering at
Government House for the cocktail-party
given by the Governor and Lady Brooks
for members of the International Olympic
Committee. Guests were received in the
State drawing-room, which was massed
with roses, mauve iris, Iceland-poppies
and rhododendrons. Lady Brooks chose
a slimly-cut afternoon-frock of junior
blue silk-organza mounted on satin. A
waterfall drape gave fullness to the back
of the skirt, which was straight in front.
The neck of the bodice was widely cut
and the sleeves were elbow-length.
Royal guests present were Prince Axel
of Denmark, and H.I.H. Prince Gholam
Reza Pahlavi of Iran, brother of the Shah
—both are members of the 1.0. C. Mr.
Brundage, the committee’s president, was
accompanied by Mrs. Brundage, who
wore a sable stole with a black wool dress
and a tiny cap of black velvet petals.
Another 1.0. C. personality was the
Marquis of Exeter, who was with his
Marchioness. Italians present included
Count Paolo Theon di Ravel and his
daughter Gabriella and the Count and
Countess Bonacossa (her black frock a
masterpiece of Roman dressmaking). Dr.
Miguel A. Mossack and his wife were
from Cuba. On a goodwill tour from
the U.K. Government were Lord Lans-
downe and Lady Lansdowne. Also, Lord
and Lady Luke were there.
One of the loveliest young guests was
Valaya Svasti Xuto, daughter of the
Olympic Committee representative from
Thailand, His Excellency Phya Chinda
Raksh and Lady Chinda Raksh. Her
white cocktail-frock of faille had a pearl-
embroidered petal-collar, whilst just
above the knees the skirt belled out in
flares. American visitors Mr. and Mrs.
John Garland were there. So were the
Lewis Luxtons, Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Kent
Hughes, Lieut.-General Sir William
Bridgeford and Lady Bridgeford, Vic-
toria’s Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring
and Lady Herring, Sir Norman and Dame
Mabel Brookes, the Premier and Mrs.
Henry Bolte, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. Sir Frank Selleck and Lady
Selleck), and Mrs. Harold Holt.
☆ ☆ ☆
Most members of the 1.0. C. were at
Her Majesty’s Theatre for the gala per-
formance of “Don Giovanni,” and for
the buffet champagne-supper held at the
close of the performance in the dress-
circle foyer. The Governor, Sir Dallas'
Brooks, was present with Lady Brooks,
she wearing a beautiful white satin gown
patterned in pink roses and green leaves,
the tiny roses on the low, round neckline
outlined with sequins. The Lady
Mayoress, Lady Selleck, wore a gown of
delphinium-blue French-lace. Sir John
Latham, chairman of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, was accompanied by Lady
Latham, and Mrs. Hugh Hunt was with
her director-husband. The Marchioness
of Exeter chose a short silver-and-gold-
brocade frock, matched with a stole lined
with scarlet satin. Mrs. Avery Brundage
also wore a short frock; hers was of
topped with a lame jacket
which had a white Arctic-fox collar.
Chief-Secretary Arthur Rylah, who
represented the Premier, was accompanied
by Mrs. Rylah, whose gown of azure-blue
French-crepe was worn with a matching
stole. The choice of Mrs. Maurice
Nathan was a sheath-frock of orchid-pink
satin embroidered with crystals, which
was worn with a short, full matching coat.
Also there were Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson, Mr. and Mrs. John Casson and
their daughter Penny, Cr. and Mrs. John
Buchan, Cr. and Mrs. Douglas Cox,
Cr. and Mrs. Tony Luxton, Mr. and Mrs.
A. T. Smithers, Mr. and Mrs. Massey
Burnside, and Mrs. Rupert Downes.
Mrs. Eric Rogers, of Brighton, still
has.a busy time ahead hostessing during
the Games. Mrs. Rogers, who has four
children, is a member of the Australian-
American Association, and works also
for the Mentally Retarded Children and
Opportunity Clubs. She is also a member
of the committee arranging a ball to help
the funds for spastic children.
In the midst of the Olympic excitement
the spotlight wa& turned for a few hours
on Parliament, celebrating its centenary
of responsible government. In the morn-
ing the Governor opened Parliament;
there followed a Parliamentary luncheon ;
and in the afternoon there was a garden-
party, at which the vice-regal party was
welcomed by President of the Legislative
Council Sir Clifden Eager and Lady
Eager, and Assembly Speaker McDonald
and his wife.
Pale waterlilies, in blue fading into
white, wreathed the wide-brimmed hat
Lady Brooks wore with her azure-blue
silk frock patterned with tiny field-
flowers. Lady Eager chose delphinium-
blue silk-shantung and a beige satin
platter-hat. Mrs. McDonald’s choice was
a white-coin-spotted Wedgwood-blue silk
frook with a small white straw flowerpot-
hat trimmed with chiffon.
The Prifne Minister was with Dame
Pattie. Mrs. H. E. Bolte, wife of the
Premier, wore a satin-finished cotton
frock patterned in soft-blue-and-gold and
a forward-tilted hat of matching organza.
Also at the party: Former Agent-
General Sir John and Lady Lienhop
(he had brought from England the
stone from Westminster which was
unveiled in the grounds of Parliament
House during the garden-party);
Deputy-Premier Arthur Rylah and
Mrs. Rylah (her frock a brown-
patterned white organza worn with
a matching brown-and-white hat); Chief
Justice’ Sir Edmund Herring and Lady
Herring ; Mrs. Clarence Weber (the only
woman at the Parliamentary luncheon,
for she was formerly a member of tlje
Legislative Assembly); Mr. and Mrs.
John Don, Lord and Lady Lansdowne,
Mr. and Mrs. Ray Joseph, Speaker of
the House of Representatives J. McLeay
and his wife, the Begum Durrani (wife
of the Acting High Commissioner for
Pakistan) and Sir Charles and Lady Lowe.
☆ ☆ ☆
Under the spell of the Olympics a 70-
year-old tradition was broken when
members of the all-male Melbourne
Club in Collins-street invited hundreds
of guests to one of the most glittering
balls of the Games-season. To set-off
the beauty of the fine old elm in the
back-garden a temporary dance-floor was
built specially for the occasion. It was
erected across part of the lawn, and was
roofed with gleaming white plastic,
banded with blue. One wall of the ball-
room was of natural ivy, through which
the illuminated garden could be seen;
another side was painted in French-grey
and was draped with red plastic. White
pillars supporting the roof were garlanded
with ivy, and 12 gilt and crystal
chandeliers shed soft light on the
dancers.
Hosts were club-president C. O. Fair-
bairn and his wife (whose gown of
mauve-blue chiffon had a very full skirt
and matching stole), and vice-president
Dr. H. F. Maudsley and Mrs. Maudsley
(her gown of black chiffon and lace).
Men wore their decorations and many
women tiaras.
An Empire-style silver-embroidered
gown in mist-blue was worn by Mrs. E.
W. Austin, of Beaufort. Her daughter
Ruth danced in garnet-red and royal-blue
shot-taffeta. _Mrs. G. I. Stevenson’s gown
was a sheath of white-and-silver brocade.
Mrs. F. Hobill Cole chose silver-
embroidered shell-pink satin, Mrs. Trevor
Clarke white French-lace. Mrs. Ronald
Marriott’s full-skirted gown was of
Ming-blue satin. Ann Radciffe-Smith
wore a full frock of white organdie.
Mrs. Andrew Chirnside’s pink-lace gown
had diamente bows all flown the front;
her daughter Jane wore white, sashed with
green satin, and finished at the back with
pink roses. Mrs. M. Farquharson chose
a sheath-frock of black lace, Mrs. Cyrii
Tonkin a gown of white French-lace and
tulle.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Olympic Torch Ball, held at the
Palais de Danse, St. Kilda, on Games-
opening night and arranged by a com-
mittee headed by Lady Gullett as president
and with Lady Steele, vice-president, was
to aid the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children. In the centre of the
ballroom a large torch flashed with
colored lights, while at the other end was
a backdrop of murals, painted by artists
Phyl Waterhouse and Charles Bush,
depicting the Olympics of ancient Greece.
With Lady Gullett were Mr. and Mrs.
H. B. Gullett and her daughter Mrs. Paul
Hackforth-Jones. Mrs. Lance Edwards,
of Adelaide, a house-guest of Lady
Steele, was also there. Sydney visitors
included Mrs. Noel Vincent, whose white
organza was spotted with black velvet, 1
and Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, whose mush-
room-pink chiffon gown had a ruched
bodice and softly-gathered skirt.
Mrs. lan Miller, who was in charge of
the decorations, wore scarlet ruched satin
with a matching-coat. Committee-mem-
bers were Mrs. Chester Guest, Mrs. Tom
Fogarty and Mrs. Robert Gove.
Since she left, school at St. Catherine’s
Pat Allen, of Toorak, has worked with
the Opportunity Clubs for Boys and Girls
as secretary to funds-organiser and
publicity-officer Mrs. Marjorie Bourke.
Pat is a member of the Wool Ball com-
mittee. She skis in winter, swims in
summer.
Guests were invited to a buffet-dinner
party at their Toorak home by U.S. Air
Attache Colonel John J. Hussey, Jnr., and
Mrs. Hussey to meet Lieut.-General
Emmett O’Donnell of the U.S. Air Force,
and his staff, who had flown-in ijpr the
Games. Also at the party were the
Assistant Air Force Attaches, Lieut.-
Colonel Collas Harris and Major L.
Donnelly, who were accompanied by
their wives. The hostess wore a lovely
deep-red satin dinner-frock. Among
those to greet their American counter-
parts were Air-Vice-Marshal F. Scherger
and Mrs. Scherger, Air-Vice-Marshal
Healey and Mrs. Healey, Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. Daly, and Air-
Commodore and Mrs. H. Acton.
American Olympic visitors at the party
were Mr. and Mrs. C. I. Ornstein, Miss
V. Stingley, Mr. J. Bingham and the
Wilson family, all from New York.
☆ «• H
No. 9 Darling-street was the setting
for a delightful cocktail-party given by
Italian Minister Signor Daneo and
Signora Daneo for the officers and cadets
of the Italian cruiser' Raimonde
Montecuccoli and members of the Italian
Olympic team. Helping them to receive
the many guests were the captain of the
cruiser and the Italian Consul-General,
Marchese Serafini, with the Marchesa.
Signora Daneo wore a short, full frock
of black-and-white taffeta, and the
Marchesa a slim, graceful silk frock of
brown and black, with large gold-straw
hat trimmed with huge black-silk roses.
A gold-brocade frock and a little glitter-
hat were the choice of Mrs. John Howse,
down from Canberra for the Games.
Greatly admired was Mrs. Claudia
Creswick’s long sheath-frock of ivory
guipure-lace. Mrs. Gordon Darlings
short white-lace frock carried an Alice-
blue satin-sash. Mrs. Sam Wood’s harem-
skirted frock was of jade-green taffeta.
Roses adorned Pam Dixon’s small hat,
worn with a slim black frock.
CANBERRA
The Duke of Edinburgh spent most of
his three-day visit to Canberra®having a
good look at what goes on in the Federal
capital. He saw cadets of the Royal
Military College undergoing a normal
day’s training ; he visited the Australian
National University and the
and flew to the R.A.N. Air Arm base at
Nowra; from there he piloted a
helicopter to see Jervis Bay.
Tanned from his journeying in the
tropics, the Duke made a handsome
picture on his official tours around
Canberra, driving himself (for the first
time since his arrival in Australia) in his
dark-green streamlined Lagonda sports-
car. *
Highlight of his visit was the Ministerial
dinner given in his honor at Parliament
House, where the dark-panelled banquet-
hall, brightened by rich red curtains and
colorful roses from the Parliament House
gardens, provided a stately setting for the.
almost-all-male gathering ; the only lady
guest was the Government Whip in the
Senate, Queensland’s Senator Annabelle
Rankin.
Guests at the Royal table were the
Governor-General, Sir William Slim ; the
Prime Minister, ,Mr, Menzies; the
president- of the Senate, Senator
McMullin ; the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, Mr. J. McLeay; the
Chief Justice of the High Court, Sir Owen
Dixon; the Dean of the Diplomatic
Corps, Mr. G. E. L. Alderton ; the
Federal Treasurer, Sir Arthur Fadden;
the Minister for Labor, Mr. Harold Holt;
the Minister for Defence, Sir Phillip
Mcßride; and the Leader of the
Opposition, Dr. Evatt. Other guests
included Cabinet Ministers, diplomats
and chiefs of the Services.
☆ ☆ ☆
A gay throng attended the cocktail-
party given at the Hotel Civic to celebrate
the 25th anniversary of Station 2CA,
Canberra. The guests were received by
Clive Ogilvie, chairman of the Macquarie
Broadcasting Network, assisted by 2CA’s
manager, George Barlin. A noted guest
was Jack Davey, who took time off from
a strenuous schedule of radio-shows
during his brief visit to Canberra.
The lovely flower-decorations in the
large reception-rooms were arranged by
Mrs. K. A. Hatcher and came from
her own gardens.
V # #
HAVE YOU A MALE RELATIVE-
with a sense of humor, a keen interest in
public affairs, and a taste for good read-
ing? Sounds like a pretty good descrip-
tion of all the menfolk in your family,
doesn’t it? Particularly the potential
Bulletin reader. This year give him a
one-year subscription to The Bulletin
for Christmas: Take you five-minutes;
just fill-in the subscription-form in this
issue and post it. No need to pay now.
Towards Christmas he will receive a card
announcing your gift. An account tor
48s. will be sent to you in the New rear.
Be really big—give one to all your male
relatives!


Divorce Notice
iN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO STUART NEIL WATSON late of 1
Boundary Street Chippendale.—TAKE
NOTICE that LORNA EILEEN WATSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. Cl 3
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three vears
and upwards and has applied to the Court
to exercise its discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899-1954 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 23rd January 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MOLLOY & SCHRADER. Solicitors,
149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
PHOTOGRAPHERS
Opportunity photographer secure
established studio in busiest Bris-
bane centre as going concern.
Reply C/o Box 569 J, G.P.O.
BRISBANE.
m
m
WARWICK
PRESBYTERIAN
SCHOOLS
m
Rolls now open for boarders'
for 1957 ...
AT THE SCOTS COLLEGE," boys
from 6 years of age up to
University Matriculation en-
rolled. Full schooling in
Academic, Commercial,
Manual Training Courses.
Principal: Mr. A. W. Briggs,
B.A.
AT THE PRESBYTERIAN GIRLS'
college, thorough education
from Preparatory Grade to
University Matriculation,
Full Academic, Commercial,
Domestic Science Courses.
Principal: Miss V. M. B.
Twiss, M.A.
First Term commences: 29th January, 1957
Fees for Senior Boarders for 1957: £BB per term
WRITE TODAY FOR PROSPECTUS, TO:
The Principal
The Scots College
WARWICK , Q'LD.
The Principal
The Presbyterian Girls
College, WARWICK, Q'LD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
EVERYTHING OLYMPIC
The curtain went up or,
rather, the lights went up and
the Torch flared, as it has flared
in some city or other every four
years since April 6, 1896, on
which date Pierre de Fredi,
Baron de Coubertin, resurrected
the Olympiad at Athens,
The Games were on in
Melbourne.
Bumper-to-bumper, suburbia
moved slowly through the
million-city saying “Ooh-aah” to
the decorations. The usually
austere National Bank of
Australasia smiled on depositors
and others through a bower of
trees, shrubs and flowers, and,
at- least four-times lifesize, John
Batman gazed down with
amazement on his Village from
the veranda of Coles’s.
As a warning to evildoers,
1000 policemen, mounted on
beautiful white horses, motor-
cycles, brand-new Holdens and
glittering Customlines, started in
procession from the Russell-
street police-station for the Town
Hall, and before the tail of the
procession had got a move on
the head had reached th’e Town
Hall and Commissioner Porter
was dismounting from his
charger to share the salute with
the Lord Mayor, who, unfortu-
nately, wasn’t wearing the £3OO
sombrero (presented to him by a
Mexican Senator) which made
him look like a movie-star.
Elsewhere more policemen
were laughingly unravelling
incredible traffic-tangles at a
hundred intersections, or
smilingly explaining to an
English duchess, a French count,
a Belgian princess,, a Danish
baron or a Malay rajah just
where their national dish or
tipple, or an Australian
boomerang, willy willy or
bumboora could be obtained at
Olympian prices.
A gToup of small boys,
autograph-mad, was besieging
six Nordic giants with “Federa-
tion de Box” printed on the
backs of their blazers, and a
seven-foot Congo chieftain was
being shouted an icecream-soda
by a little bespectacled professor
who wore the uniform of the
U.S. Navy.
Italian millionaires were being
driven round by the wives and
daughters of Australian million-
aires garbed in the attractive
green uniform of the Melbourne
Olympic Committee, and if there
was anybody who didn’t wear
an Olympic uniform or an
Olympic medal he was probably
that great sportsman the Aga
Khan, travelling incognito to
avoid having to make speeches at
mayoral receptions.
There were so many Olympic
pressmen, photographers and
televisors taking an Olympian
view of the Olympian proceed-
ings, and so many loudspeakers
blaring out descriptions of the
huge triple-decked steel-and-
concrete stand at the M.C.G.,
the £500,000 swimming-stadium,
the velodrome, the 28-acre
Olympic Park, the shooting-
ranges, the running-tracks, the
Village, the fleet of yachts built
locally for the use of inter-
national sailsmen, and all the
other facilities provided by Mel-
bourne’s £7,000,00# - effort
there was so much uproar, in
fact, that it would have been
expected that the still, smali
voice of art would remain un-
heard amidst the uproar.
On the contrary. The artists
went even more Olympic than
the athletes. In terms of the
Olympic charter a fine-arts
competition must be held in con-
junction with the athletic con-
tests, but past experience has
shown that the results weren’t
satisfactory, so the International
Committee directed that the
competition be replaced by a
festival organised by the host-
city.
The host-city went at it.with
its ears back. There was an
Olympic exhibition of Australian
painting, an Olympic exhibition
at the Victorian Artists’, an
Olympic exhibition of the
pottery and pictures of Arthur
Boyd and others, an Olympic
Year exhibition by the Fellow-
ship of Australian Artists, an
Olympic Contemporaries’ exhibi-
tion and an Olympic architectural
and sculpture exhibition at the
Wilson Hall.
Pavement-artists are a dying
race in Melbourne or there
would certainly have bedn an
Olympic Exhibition of Pavement
Art on the steps of the Town
Hall. However, one artist had
chalked on the back of his
T-model: “Visitors are cordially
invited to an Olympic Exhibition
of his pictures by Mr.
at his stable-studio in Carlton.”
Musically, moreover, the
Olympic International Com-
mittee’s directive was not
neglected. In fact, there was
so much magnificent music—
symphonic, operatic and chamber
—that a critic could no more
have kept up with it without
impairing his health than a
Queensland peanut-grower could
have followed the Torch from
Cairns to Melbourne. One of the
brightest gems in the collection
was the modest “Music of Our
Own” Concert at the Assembly
Hall. Dorien le Gallienne’s
delightful settings to four
religious poems of John Donne,
Margaret Sutherland’s instru-
mental divertimento and some
airy lyrics by Anne Macky and
John Tallis made up a pleasant
programme.
M. G. S.
Stage and Music
“Waters of the Moon”
The intriguing title of N. C.
Hunter’s play (Independent
Theatre, North Sydney) relates
to the feelings of a group of
people living in frayed gentility
in an English moorland hotel
when three wealthy guests are
thrown into their midst by a
storm —the ducks, as one of
them says, were happy enough in
their puddle until the swans
arrived and set them longing for
the waters of the moon.
The ducks in this case are
Mrs. Ashworth, well-intentioned,
tedious and unintentionally
amusing with her comments
about her sister who has
rheumatism and “makes lovely
vases out of treacle-tins” ; Mrs.
Whyte, aloof gentlewoman with
a perpetual bad smell under her
nose ; Colonel Selby, with that
wonderfully polite reserve of the
English upper-middle-class, and
who feeds birds with one hand
and shoots them with the other ;
and Hugo Winterhalter, a
European exile whose
bayoneted hands have deprived
him of his living from the piano.
To these are added the widow
who owns the hotel, Mrs. Daly,
and her invalid son and her
daughter, gauche and grieving
for a long-dead fiance.
The swans that come among
these ducks are the Lancasters
husband, wife and her
daughter—wealthy, cultured and
“easily satisfied with the best of
everything.” The main impact
of personalities is built up
between Mrs. Lancaster and
Winterhalter; who responds to
her warmth and understanding
and knowledge of the things and
places he has known ; and the
central clash occurs when the
daughter of the house, Evelyn
Daly, is brought out of her own
tragedy and resentment by too
much champagne and explodes
in a jealous outburst against the
Lancasters which spills over on
to Winterhalter.
A superb scene this, with
Verity Marina, as Evelyn Daly,
never missing a beat as the
champagne washes away her
inhibitions, and fading-out
perfectly with her careful high-
school German set in pathetic
contrast to the easy use of the
language by Helen Lancaster.
According to the programme,
Dame Sybil Thorndike has
ascribed “a Chekhovian quality”
to Mr. Hunter’s play, and if it
falls a little short on that count
it has at least that tolerant under-
standing for all its characters
which makes for very human
comedy. Producer William
Rees was well aware of this and
allowed nothing in pace or
mood to interfere with the
sympathetic tenor of the piece.
The production is also one of
the best-cast and best-acted
plays seen at the Independent for
a long time. Doris Fitton excels
as Helen Lancaster, bringing out
the mature intelligence of the
character and the ease of
manner that comes from being
born into the right family with
a classical education, travel,
winter sports, the best clothes
and a Rolls to be enjoyed as
naturally as the air and sun-
shine. But there is more to the
character than that; as she said
—and as one believed she
would enjoy love, life and
laughter, with or without money.
Miss Fitton was at her best
playing opposite Owen Weingott,
as Winterhalter—they seemed to
hit-off particularly well in their
understanding of their own and
each other’s roles. Weingott,
admirable actor that he is, caught
perfectly the gentle, crushed
spirit of a defeated person from
a defeated country, and, towards
the curtain, it was wonderful to
note the world of regret and
resignation in his acceptance of
bluff old Colonel Selby’s English
mispronunciation of his name.
Apart from the scene
mentioned in the foregoing,
Verity Marina distinguishes her-
self with one of those stark black-
and-white performances she has
done well before; it makes her
impassioned outburst all the
more effective, chilling the
audience as much as it does the
rest of the cast.
The rest of the cast —Mayne
Lynton’s Colonel Selby; Ailsa
Grahame’s Mrs. Whyte ; Marion
Johns’s Mrs. Ashworth ; Reyna
Cohen’s girlish daughter; Ken
Fraser’s quietly-played Mr.
Lancaster; Jean Blarney’s
worried, exhausted proprietress
and Roger MacDougall’s shrill,
nervous intensity as her invalid
son —are unexceptionable.
<2*
“The Gondoliers”
Another Gilsullivan opera-
season was launched from the
traditional Piazetta in Venice —•
and very handsomely depicted,
too, at Sydney’s Empire—when
the gondola carrying Marco and
Guiseppe spilled them among
the posy-making girls on the
canal-side and started the pair
on the road to the temporary
dual-kingship of Barataria.
There are several prerequisites
if a production of this sparkling
nonseqse is to go with a bang:
A Plaza-Toro who can wring
from this juiciest of Gilbert’s
comic characters the last drop
of absurd pomposity and sly
fun at the expense of his
formidable Duchess; a Don
Alhambra of character and vocal
weight; skilful ensemble-singing
by the principals (this opera is
one of the richest in concerted
numbers); a pair of personable
and lively gondoliers; and good
choruses.
Richard Walker’s production
for the Firm met these in good
measure. Graham Clifford,
though starting on rather a
minor comic note in the early
sequence, warmed-up when he
reached the Baratarian palace
and skipped nimbly and irrever-
ently around his Duchess, played
with unrelenting top-dignity by
Muriel Brunskill.
Richard Watson’s Don
Alhambra was a capital portrayal
in the grand - inquisitorial
manner, and his singing of
“There Was a King”—one of
Gilbert’s shrewdest sallies, at
ideal Socialism —was one of the
highlights of the night. The
singing of the duets, trios,
quartets and quintets was notable
for excellent blending and tone-
control, especially in the delicate
shading-away phases. The
choruses were the best this
commentator has heard in any
Gilsullivan season. *
The gondolier-brothers, Irish
tenor Terence O’Donoghue
(Marco) and baritone Eric
Thornton (Guiseppe), took their
sparkling eyes and ran their
little messages for Ministers of
Slate very cheerfully and tune-
fully, and made a handsome pair.
Helen Roberts and Jane Martin,
as the bereft brides, were stronger
in vivacity than voice Miss
Roberts still has to file that
brassy edge off her top notes.
Two fine performances came
from Kevin Foote, as the Private
Drum, and Roslyn Dunbar, as
Casilda. N
The show was lavishly dressed,
and was served by an orchestra
under Leo Packer which, except
for a few occasional scrambles
to catch up With fast-singing
soloists, was generally to good
standard.
*l* *> »J»
Jacob Lateiner
The young American pianist’s
uncommon gifts of mind and his
formidable technical facility
have distinguished his playing of
some of the big works at his
Sydney recitals.
There was Bach’s Sixth
Partita, for instance. This can
sound as desiccated as a problem
of Euclid, but, although its
essence is mathematics in
musical form, the opening
toccata has an underlying
dramatic force; Lateiner skil-
fully brought this out into the
open, building-up the climax
with fine power in the left hand.
Another Bach work was the
Busoni transcription of the
Organ Toccata in C Major, its
playing marked by strong
chordal work and massive power
in the bass, and an introspective
gentleness in the middle section.
There were the Paganini
Variations of Brahms in which
the Caprice, which is the theme,
was stated with the greatest
deliberation and each variation
coolly assessed and shaped with
good judgment according to its
mood.
There was also Schubert’s
“Wanderer” Fantasia, with its
rich harmonies, its splendid
foundation - melody and its
admitted unpianistic passages —
didn’t Schubert himself exclaim
despairingly, “Let the devil play
this! ” as he tried it out? Much
of the dramatic grandeur
inherent in the original song of
the heartsick searcher was
faithfully captured, and the big-
horizon feeling, the sweep and
power, were always there.
Beethoven’s Sonata in D
Minor, Op. 31 No. 2, had its
measure of recitative-eloquence
and emotional storms, and there
were jumping agitation in the
final allegretto and solemn
beauty in the adagio.
The standard nose-dived with
Prokofieff’s astringent Seventh
Sonata, but three Impromptus
from Op. 90 by Schubert, and a
prelude, a study and the C Sharp
Minor Scherzo by Chopin, were
full of poetry.
Artbursts
Mixed Art
Every now and again, when a
master craftsman appears, art
reaches a fixed point; whatever
else may change, that point at
least is settled.
The fixed point in the
exceedingly mixed show of
“Australian Painters of Note”
at David Jones’, Sydney* is the
set of Hans Heysen watercolors,
final in their clarity and decision.
Round them revolve, still in
a state of flux, a nice collision
of trotters by Carl Plate, a lute
in colorful lozenges by Godfrey,
Miller, some lively semi-abstract
fish by Arthur Nicol; a few
abstracts hopelessly coarse or
abstract; and Murch, Town-
shend, Eldershaw, Rupert Bunny
and even a small delicate Gruner
of the Bay of Naples.
Talkies
“Top Banana” (Sydney
Esquire): This snappy satire on
commercial TV comes from
somewhere near the top of the
bunch. Phil Silvers is a top-line
producer-comic who invites a
fine crop of stomach-ulcers by
gulping down coffee and sand-
wiches as he works at high speed
with his gag-man, his crooner,
his secretary and his yes-men.
At the same time he manages
to be shaved, massaged and
telephoned and toss off such
comments as: “I gotta rehearse
these ad libs.”
“Bigger Than Life” (Sydney
Century): A heavily-padded
tear-jerker about the effect on
the family of a schoolie whose
mind is affected by too much
cortisone taken to combat a rhre
arterial disease. James Mason
gives some conviction to the
gradual onset of his disturbed
mental state, and Barbara Rush
is adequate as the distraught
wife.


Frigal
By CLIVE BARRY
ANNINA was a lovable
little Latin rat whom
Fate used rudely. Fate
was a prisoner-of-war
called Frugal. Frugal became
enamored of Annina at the
height of a Continental summer
when the lack of femininity in
the prison-compound was too
serious to talk about. Although
Annina’s femininity was in-
adequate, at least she was
concrete.
Frugal was regarded askance
by the other prisoners. Not that
Frugal did anything wrong. It
was just that he did everything
differently. Whereas, for
example, almost every other
prisoner ate his bread-ration in
two bites, Frugal dissected his
little loaf daily into twenty-four
razor-thin slices. He meticulously
masticated one razor-thin slice
every hour.
Prison-life lends itself to
commerce. But while most
prisoners noisily bartered bread,
socks and cigarettes for marginal
profits, Frugal quietly cornered
the bootlace-market at serious
personal loss. He acquired over
two-hundred pairs.
And, in a society where incar-
ceration was fashionably loathed,
it was Frugal who locked up
Annina in a wooden cage. For
stretches up to twenty minutes
Frugal used to stare fixedly down
into the cage through its ceiling
of meshed wire bound with
leather laces. Under that twenty-
minute stare Annina developed
a twittering squeak which soon
transferred itself to Frugal.
Ostracism is the only treat-
ment for prisoners such as
Frugal, because such prisoners
regard any advice as persecution.
So Frugal was never included in
those sociable speculations as to
which cup had been won by
what horse.
In a prison-compound, ostra-
cism is never fatal unless the
victim frets himself to death.
■ERUGAL, after operating on
-*• his bread, had crumbs to
throw to Annina at a time when
crumbs were worth their weight
in cigarette-butts. He also gave
Annina two male rats fpr com-
panions.
Annina married the more
elderly of her companions, wove
herself a leather nest with shreds
from the meshed ceiling, and was
supporting triplets when autumn
started scattering down those
grey skeletal flakes that stick in
the corner of your eye.
As the days shortened the
rations shortened. Barbs on the
barbed-wire became elongated
with icicles. The prison water-
supply solidified. Annina con-
sumed her woven-leather nest to
secrete milk for the three putty
snowflakes she practised mother-
hood on.
Then winter arrived. At night
we used to ram cardboard into
draughty crevices until our hut
was airtight. We used to crawl
into our shrug-shoulder bunks,
stacked in five tiers, and we
used to shout imprecations at the
cold, the bedbugs, the lice and
the blowers. Especially those
blowers. Every second prisoner
used to take a blower to bunk
with him.
The blowers were made of
scrap tin and were about the
size of portable radios. They
contained rotating blades which
fanned bits of glowing charcoal.
The blowers heated inky brews
of coffee made of crushed char-
coal and beet-sugar. Forty to
fifty blowers being cranked
manually in an airtight hut. . .
Soon it was noticed that the
altitude of a prisoner in the
bunks was proportional to the
loudness of his grumbling. As
the colorless, odorless fumes
from the blowers poured down-
wards, the airtight hut began to
fill up like a rain-barrel in a
shower. Because of the danger
that low-level prisoners might
stop grumbling entirely, Annina’s
cage was kept at floor-level so
that she and her relations could
indicate the height on the
rising tide.
That way Annina lost an
elderly husband, two malnutri-
tioned children and an un-
requited lover from carbon-
monoxide poisoning.
/"\NE arctic afternoon Frugal
was lying on his bunk and
staring down through meshed
wire to where Annina and her
badly-gassed child were strolling
up and down over nail-parings
which rude Fate offered these
days instead of crumbs.
I was introspectively admiring
the immaculate purity of a blank
mind when Frugal addressed me.
“In the beginning,” said
Frugal to me, “I had to be
careful.” /
“What you say, Frugal,” I said
to him, “is coherent.”
The prison hut was almost
deserted, for it was the hour
when prisoners stroll up and
down the compound to deaden
their appetites before eating.
“But now all doubt has
vanished,” said Frugal. He
opened the little door on
Annina’s cage and she shot out
and up the aisle between the
bunks.
“Don’t worry about doubt,” I
told Frugal. “Things are never
as bad as they’re going to be.”
Up through the window I
could see a high platform from
where a prison-guard stared
down over the open sights of a
machine-gun through meshed
barbed-wire.
“The rat is a machine,” said
Frugal, “subject to remote
control.”
“No doubt,” I said.
Above the guard on the high
platform was the vast inverted
pool which is the eye of the uni-
verse, glaring down through
ghost-strands of vapor.
“Twitter-twitter,” said Frugal.
“Naturally,” I said. “Of
course.”
Annina came down the aisle
into her cage. She stood in one
corner and opened her mouth.
Frugal dropped a crumb for her.
She swallowed the crumb,
preened her whiskers with slick
black gauntlets and dashed out
through her little open door into
the aisle. Frugal twittered again
and she sped back to attention in
the corner of the box. Frugal
dropped a crumb for her and he
locked Annina’s little door.
“In the beginning,” said
Frugal, “I used to wait till she
stood in that corner by accident.
Then I used to make that queer
sound and give her a crumb.
After about five-hundred crumbs
she would go and stand in the
corner as soon as I made the
sound.”
“How slavish is the rat,” I
observed. “How limited in
mentality.”
Just then the prison-guard
raised a rococo btigle to his lips
and twittered a melody which
signalled the daily bread-issue.
Prisoners from the compound
came .scrambling into the hut.
“How slavish and limited
indeed,” said Frugal.
VX/HEN I got my loaf I
admired for a while its
egglike contours and the exciting
knife-scar across its crust. I
could understand those Chinese
emperors who were said to
command specially - shaped
pottery for their imperial
fondling. Thgn I swallowed the
loaf and faced the ensuing
twenty-four hours.
“For your loaf now,” I said
to Frugal, “I shall give you mine
tomorrow.”
The prison-guard forced more
notes through his bugle. They
slithered away over shadowless
snow to black mountains on the
rim of the world, where a new
moon like a cat’s grin followed
close on the setting sun. The
bugle-melody was onomatopoeic
with edhoes of cattle lowing over
wasteland and bitter winds
moaning through ringbarked
forest.
Curfew. Around the com-
pound the floodlights were
switched on and the barbed-wire
stood out in ragged writing.
Inside the compound a regi-
mental Alsatian was released to
eat prisoners who stepped out-
side the hut.
“Very well,” said Frugal to
me as we hurriedly closed and
bolted doors and shutters.
“Very well what?” I asked.
I climbed up the wall and
snapped-on the switch which
illuminated six naked bulbs
suspended along the aisle. Nine
or ten blowers started up
immediately like sausage-
machines grinding plate-glass.
“Take my bread,” said Frugal
to me.
He reached into Annina’s cage
and seized the young rat, who
was displaying aggravated
symptoms of asphyxia. Annina
bit him on the thumb. He lifted
the young rat onto his bread-
board and took off its head with
one stroke of his homemade
knife.
“Are you charging interest on
the loan?” I demanded.
“The bread will cost you
nothing,” said Frugal.
When I heard the price I
accepted immediately. Soon I
was enjoying the painful stabs of
an atrophied digestive system.
As was his habit every even-
ing, Frugal prised loose the
staples that held the lead of a
light-bulb and he lowered the
bulb into Annina’s cage. Annina
closed her eyes against the glare
and crept up close to the bulb
for warmth.
I WAS dreaming about the
warm perfumed flesh of
a gigantic hot-dog that had been
left on my doorstep when the
last blower in the hut ceased its
tamborine symphony and the
silence woke me.
I went to the door of the hut
and squinted out through the
keyhole but I saw nothing but
a bony Alsatian. Because the
blowers were silent I snapped-
off the lights in the hut. I got
back into bunk, back into sleep,
back into the dream and back
to my doorstep, but the hot-dog
was gone. I was too late.
Next time I woke the ceiling
of the hut was brilliant with
reflected light. A shutter was
open and floodlights bounced up
through the glass pane from the
frozen, white compound. Frugal
had taken the cold light-bulb
from Annina’s cage and was
sawing through its lead on his
bread-board. High outside in
the motionless air, the platform
guard was humming '‘Silent
Night” in his own language.
After he detached the light-
Frugal whittled the free
end of the lead until he had
revealed copper wires for about
six-inches. He wrapped those
six-inches around the young
rat’s body, then he unscrewed
every bulb in the prison hut. He
opened the windowpane and
dangled the rat on the lead over
the sill outside ; then he jammed
the window shut and bolted it
and stared out through the pane.
The guard stopped humming.
Frugal whistled a verse or two
and the guard carried on the
melody again.
“Fruga 1,” I said softly,
“you’re making it hard for your
mates.”
Frugal merely pointed at the
ceiling with his thumb, so 1
climbed up the wall and put my
hand on file light-switch. After
a while there were snuffles
beyond the windowsill and
Frugal turned his thumb down.
I depressed the light-switch and
listened to the pulse jumping near
my ears. The floodlights became
yellow, so I switched-off.
. The snuffling had changed to a
ticking growl. I gave the switch
another belt or two and the tick-
ing stopped..
“You see, Frugal,” I said,
“they’ll cut our rations.”
Frugal opened the window
and coiled in the lead. The
regimental Alsatian came over
the sill with its jaws clamped on
the smoking rat.
Frugal took his Army great-
coat, slashed rents in the back
o Continued on page 34)


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” no. 29*
am
m
“ m '
BV
*W
The “Lady Augusta”
The First Navigation of the Murray River
The navigation of the River Murray by
steam-driven trading boats was one of
many developments which followed the
discovery of gold in Australia.
The honour of inaugurating this trade was
divided between Francis Cadell and William
Richard Randell. Randell's boat was an un-
gainly home-built vessel, 55 ft. long and with
20 tons displacement, called the “Mary Ann.”
Her first run on the Murray began on March 4,
1853. Cadell's steamer was,the “Lady Augusta”
(105 ft. long) which had been built in Sydney
and entered the Murray mouth on August 25,
1853.
Captain Francis Cadell had long believed in
the advantages of transport by this giant water-
way, and had carried out a skilful exploratory
voyage in August and September, 1852, to
ascertain the feasability of navigation by steam
vessel.
With four South Australian gold diggers,
he left Swan Hill on 10th August in a small
canvas rowing boat, and explored some 1,300
miles of the Murray in the following 21 days.
Arriving at Wellington, a Mr. Carter loaned them
a sailing boat in which they continued their
voyage to the sea mouth of the river. Captain
Cadell was convinced that the river would bring
a new prosperity to the inland, and decided to
develop his ideas.
At the time, almost all the bullockies of N.S.W,
and. Victoria had been lured away from the
pastoral country by high freights offering on the
diggings. In some areas, station lessees and
their hands were down to living on mutton and
“fat hen"; some properties had not received
stores or sent away their wool for several years,
and there was talk of abandoning some of the
remoter runs.
After Sturt’s epoch-making voyage down the
Murrumbidgee and the Murray in 1830 by whale-
bbat, there was much discussion about steam
navigation of the Murray, but not until 1850
had its inception seemed likely. In that year,
South Australia offered a bonus of £2,000 for
each of the first two steamers to travel up the
Murray from Goolwa (just inside the Murray
mouth) to the Darling Junction.
Captain Cadell decided to seek to
earn a bonus of £2,000 under modified con-
ditions and after his reconnaissance voyage
referred to above, arranged for the “Lady
Augusta” to be built. This paddle-steamer
was named after Lady Augusta Sophia Young,
wife of the Governor of South Australia; she is
also commemorated in the name given to Port
Augusta. A month or so later, Randell (who
does not seem to have heard of the bonus until
later) learned that flour was scarce on the Goul-
burn diggings in Victoria, and determined to
put a steamer on the Murray to carry flour from
a mill he and one of his brothers were managing
for their father.
They built the “Mary Ann” (described as "a
very unpleasant vessel to travel in, making an
excessive noise”), but her first journey up the,
Murray was unsuccessful because of low water
and shoals. Randell tried again on August, 15
and, at a point just beyond the Murrumbidgee
Junction, 770 miles from the sea, on September
14, 1853, was passed by the “Lady Augusta."
The two steamers continued up-river, sold
all their cargo, loaded with wool and returned
downstream.
Once the Murray trade had begun, it
flourished. For the next 70 years, much of the
trade of a huge area of western N.S.W. and the
Riverina was carried by flat-bottomed river
steamers. At one stage, some 200 steamers ran
on the rivers and more than 4,000 miles of water-
ways were navigated.
Australia’s “Old Man River” is likely to find
new vigour in the future. The Murray Valley
has an area of 100,000 square miles—half the
size of France—and a great increase in popula-
tion is likely to follow completion of the vast
Snowy River Scheme. The Valley already holds
more than half Australia’s vineyards, two-fifths
of the orchards and a quarter of the total area
devoted to wheat, oats and lucerne. Present
population of the Valley is about 400,000. Experts
say it can eventually support at least one million
people, and there is every prospect that this
forecast will be fulfilled.
The River at Goolvia in 1854.
First in Quality—First in Favour
CHATEAU IAHUNDA
A Product of the House .of Seppelt
★ ★ ★
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
*Copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application to Tucker & Co. Ply. Limited
No Chances
By GEORGE CLIVE
JOHN SULLIVAN sat low
in his chair in the court-
house of his sub-district,
the south coast of New
Britain.
He stared intently at the two
men facing him across the table:
young Namba, shining with
cleanliness and dressed for the
occasion in 'new, white, trade-
store shorts, and the aged Burai,
clad, by contrast, in a good deal
of red clay, a few filthy rags and
an impenetrable air of aloofness.
Although this was a complaint
of sorcery, and had not yet
reached the stage of being a
case when the ponderous wheels
of legal procedure must be set
rolling, Sullivan had been an
assistant-district-officer too long
to treat it lightly.
“But he did,” Namba was
saying angrily. “All the talk-
wind says he poisoned my
garden, and everybody knows
he’s a man bilong poison! ”
By the door, a constable in
the navy-and-scarlet of the
Royal Papua and New Guinea
Constabulary shifted uneasily.
Sullivan looked over to the two
village officials who had come
with Namba and Burai, very
grave in colored laplaps and
wearing their red-banded caps
of authority.
“What talk is this, Luluai?”
he asked the senior.
“True, Kiap, before the
Government came and told us
there was no poison, all men
knew Burai and his father and
his father’s father made poison
among us.”
“Me no savvy poison,” said
Burai stolidly.
“Suppose you not a poison-
man ...” snarled Namba angrily.
“Talk to me!” interjected the
A.D.O. sharply.
“Kiap, last night'l watched in
my garden, and I saw Burai
come and bury this little make-
fast.”
TVAMBA stepped to the table
with a leafy parcel, bound
in vine. Sergeant Ulilio, alert
and on guard behind his chief,
came instantly to attention ; then,
seeing no threat, returned to his
calm survey of this ancient issue.
“Are you sure it was Burai?”
“Yes, Kiap. I knew him by
his cranky leg.”
Sulfivan glanced at the
withered leg of the older man. v
“And, besides, the light was
like the daytime.”
“True, Burai?”
“It’s true, Kiap,” Burai
admitted coolly.
“What’s this, then, Burai?”
Sullivan indicated the earthy
bundle on the table.
“Last night I was walking and
eating a piece of mami. I stopped
in Namba’s garden to bury the
skin.’’
“Why?”
Sullivan knew the answer to
this question, as he knew that
mami was the native yam, but
felt obliged to ask.
“Who can tell?” Burai’s eyes
slid furtively round the court.
“A man must be careful when
there’s poison-talk about.”
Su 11 i van nodded grimly,
remembering many occasions
when friendly carriers had
collected and buried the fibre of
sugarcane, which he had chewed
and spat out. Throughout Papua
and New Guinea, food-scraps,
hair-clippings, discarded cloth-
ing, anything personal, is meat
for the sorcerer’s poison, because
Jt gives the sorcerer an intimate
link with his victim.
AT this point the assistant-
x district-officer was in a
dilemma; not an uncommon
one, but nevertheless delicate.
Any further questions would
imply that he believed in the
real possibility of sorcery, and
this is most strongly against
Government policy.
On the other hand it seemed
very likely that Burai, widely
feared as a sorcerer, had made
some attempt to frighten Namba,
with success.
All the choices were difficult.
To charge Burai with sorcery
would involve accepting the
principle and the tricky business
of proving the fact. Namba
might be told that the whole
thing was nonsense and his fears
groundless, but Sullivan had had
his fingers burned by unexpected
crop-failures before, and was
reluctant to take this line.
Finally, since alarming the
victim is an essential part of any
sorcerer’s business, it might be
possible to charge Burai under
the Native Administration Regu-
lations with “spreading false
reports and giving rise to
trouble.” Even this provided no
ultimate solution, because a New
Guinea sorcerer committed to
jail for any offence always
emerges with more prestige than
before.
The day was sticky and the
room was hot.
Sullivan absently picked up a
razor-blade from the litter on his
desk and began to trim a torn
nail.
“Tell me, Burai, is there a
cross between you two?”
“Not a real cross,” said Burai.
“Only a little one.”
“What sort of cross?”
Namba interjected. “True,
Kiap, I killed a pig with my
spear and Burai said I killed it
on his hunting-land and I must
give the pig to him. But the land
belonged to my fathers.”
“To mine!” shouted Burai.
“Mine!”
“What happened to the pig?”
asked Sullivan.
“I • ate it,” admitted Namba
complacently. “We gave a sing-
sing!”
That disposes of the pig,
thought Sullivan, whittling care-
fully at the painful nail.
Here were two enemies ; one
prosperous with a well-tended
garden, the other a reputed
sorcerer. It certainly looked as
if Burai had been trying to
terrorise Namba. Sullivan could
not be certain of this without
carrying out an investigation,
and this would strengthen the
belief in sorcery in the area.
He decided against any sorcery
investigation. He must try to find
a solution by ridicule.
“Now listen, you two. I don’t
, want to hear any more talk about
this. Burai, you old men are all
the same, but you are sillier than
most. You must learn there is
no sorcery. Your Luluai and
your Tultul will report to me on
the land where the pig was
killed. If this land is your land,
Namba must give back a leg of
a pig.
“As for Namba’s garden, I
will look at it myself, or one of
my kiaps will look at it, and it
must be carefully tended and if
it should fail there’ll be big
trouble. Em tasol."
He got up and looked round
the court. “The court is
finished.”
Sullivan left through the
doorway behind his desk, cross-
ing the small wireless-room
where Peter Swire the cadet was
working.
Peter looked up. “How was it,
John?”
“Sorcery today,” Sullivan'
smiled wryly. “It’s always a
headache, but I fixed them up
this time.”
'T'HE constable had shepherded
A everyone except his sergeant
from the courtroom.
Alone, Ulilio pulled back
Sullivan’s chair and, kneeling,
carefully scraped something off
the floor with the side of one
hand into the flat palm of the
other. After a final brush to
make sure that no scrap remained
and a quick glance to see that
no one had been watching, he
snapped open an ammunition-
pouch on his belt and guardedly
tipped his gatherings into it.
Outside, in the brilliant sun-
shine, dazzling on the crushed
white coral, Burai was waiting
for him.
“What does the Kiap mean,
Sergeant, that there is no
sorcery? This I don’t believe, and
you, Sergeant, who are of our
blood, don’t believe it either.”
“I work for the Government,”
replied Ulilio.
“Sergeant, the Kiap called me
a silly old man and said there
was no sorcery, and this is not
true.”
“What the Kiap said,” returned
Ulilio, “is true. There is no
sorcery and you are a silly old
man. You can’t poison a garden,
because there is no poison. This
the white man has taught me.”
Impatiently, he shook off the
restraining claw and strode on
to his quarters.
WHEN he had turned into the
V ’ trim garden in front of his
house, Ulilio stopped and
scooped out a hole in the flaky
soil. Then he carefully took off
his belt and, opening one of
the pouches on it, meticulously
emptied every scrap of matter
into the shallow hole. The earth
he scraped back and smoothed
over with his hahds.
“Ulilio!” his wife called from
the veranda. “What are you
doing?”
“Planting something,” said the
Sergeant deliberately, refastening
his belt around the top of his
laplap.
“Planting what?” His wife was
intrigued enough to come down
the steps and walk across to him.
“Well, you 1 know the way of
the Number One Kiap. He’s
careless. Today we had a
poison-man in court and there
was the Kiap, cutting his finger-
nails! I saw him. I was just
behind him.”
“Tch . . . tch . . .” went Riata,
shocked at such foolhardiness. “I
hope you didn’t leave the finger-
nails lying about!”
# “Of course not,” Ulilio
snapped.- “I swept them up and
I’ve just buried them.”
“But Ulilio . . .” Riata was
honestly puzzled. “Only the
other day you told me that the
Government says no poison can
be, so there is no poison.”
“Of course there’s no poison.”
The Sergeant dusted his bare
knees. “But when it’s the
Number One Kiap I’m taking no
chances.”


name in Dust
By LES FREELAND
KEITH STAYNES un-
wound himself from the
small car where he had
pulled up under the
young mango-tree. Long of limb
and feature, he was muscular,
but there was little flesh on him.
Clad only in shorts, sandals and
old felt hat, he looked tense.
He walked to the farm build-
ings: curing-barns, a skillion-
roof joining them to the bulk-
shed, to provide shade and
shelter for the stringing of
tobacco-leaf. All was ready,
leaf-benches bare, stringing-
horses with balls of twine and
stringing-sticks handy. As he
turned to walk to the small fibro
house his wife’s voice called him
from the kitchen: “Come in,
Keith, breakfast’s ready.”
He glanced to the north-west
where black clouds hung heavy
on dark mountains. Already, at
7.30 a.m., the heat was stifling.
He hoped the storm would blow
away, for today he was to start
picking his tobacco-crop.
Peggy, fresh and pretty in shirt
and shorts, was pouring his tea
as he entered.
“How’d you get on, Keith?
Any stringers?”
“Yes, I’ve got to pick up three
women from the construction-
camp as soon as I get the first
load of leaf in. Suppose the
Greeks’ll have a load picked
by now.”
Peg looked anxious, “No,
Keith, they haven’t gone out yet.
They’ve been making a great
fuss, and keep asking for you.”
Keith slammed' the bread he
was cutting down on the table.
“What the hell’s gone wrong
now? I’ll finish-up knocking
Handsome —he’s at the bottom
of it all.”
“I don’t know, Keith ; but you
mustn’t iose your temper.” •
Keith agreed forcefully. “If
only I could talk to the blighters!
But it’s always ‘No understanda.’
They make us understand what
they want, quick enough.”
A FTER three years of struggle,
of bad ,crops, bad markets
and overwork, their debts had
nearly reached the limit set under
the Land Settlement Act for
soldier-settlers.
In Keith's paddock was a crop
thqt could cover this debt and
make their future secure, but
there was barely enough finance
available to keep his tobacco
watered, protected from insects,
and to harvest it.
He had managed to get the
service of some Greeks from the
Immigration Department. They
knew nothing. They were suspi-
cious and argumentative. For
three days Keith had given them
odd jobs about the farm ; then
he had taken them to the
paddock and shown them how
to tell ripe from green leaf, how
to pick and handle it.
Among the Greeks was one
older than the others; he knew
a little English and was the ring-
leader. He was dark, short and
muscular, with perfect features,
waxed, black moustache and
flashing teeth and eyes—“ Han-
dsome.”
Keith had hardly finished
speaking when there was a
knock on the door. He opened
it and Handsome’s dark eyes and
white teeth flashed up at him:
he was gesticulating wildly. .
“Men no worka —no colda, no
worka.”
Keith said, “You can’t expect
it to be cold in North Queensland
in December, mate.”
The Greek pointed to the
refrigerator visible through the
open door. “Him no colda —
tucka no gooda, no colda.”
Keith sighed. “All right, I’ll
come and have a look.”
As they entered the men’s
quarters he noticed that the
refrigerator-lamp was out. Hand-
some pointed, and rushed to a
disused electric-light switch.
“Him no worka—up no
worka, down no worka.”
Keith grunted. “Wouldn’t
make any difference if you
twisted the flaming thing round.
I explained about the fridge.”
'T'EN minutes later he returned
1 to the kitchen to finish his
breakfast.
“What’s the trouble?” asked
Peg.
“The mugs let the lamp go out
in the fridge. I’d told ’em all
about it and where to get the
kerosene, too. Now they don’t
seem to think it’s dinkum; they
won’t start Work until it’s frosted-
up again.”
Peg smiled. “Oh, well! It
must be hard for them. Dad
said they were wonderful to him
escaping from Greece. Your
brother was missing over there,
too.”
Keith was sceptical. “Darned
if I know. I missed that lot. They
must’ve been a different sort of
Greek to these. Anyhow, we
give them good pay, treat them
decently, help them with their
shopping—they’ve got no reason
to be so - darned suspicious. All
this means I won’t get all the
ripe leaf off today. It’s no good
putting two days’ picking i n one
cure. Suppose I’ll have to,
though. Tliere’s another pick
ready, too. I’ve got good leaf
going to waste,”
Breakfast over, Keith had to
put in some time on odd jobs
about the farm/and then went
to the paddock. At last there was
enough leaf picked for the
stringers to start on, and he
loaded it on to his sledge and
carted it to the homestead. He
wasn’t satisfied with the picking ;
there was a lot of immature and
green leaf amongst it, but it
was hard to explain to them and
it was their first day—one must
be patient.
He unloaded the bundles of
leaf and placed them on the
benches ; then drove to the con-
struction-camp to get the women.
When he got back he collected
the smoke-oh and took it to the
paddock, leaving Peg to help and
supervise the women.
During the short break he
tried, with words and gesture, to
get on friendlier terms. Told
them about snakes, asked where
they came from. They laughed
readily and seemed friendly
enough, especially the youngest
one, Toni.
He led them out to work again
and gave them a few more hints.
They were feeling the heat badly
and found the tobacco-gum un-
pleasant on their hands. It
clotted the thick hair on their
forearms. Twice in a short time
Keith had to check Handsome
and explain again the necessity
of handling the leaf carefully
and not bruising or tearing it.
The man seemed resentful.
As he moved from plant to
plant, breaking off the ripe leaves
and stacking them on his left
arm Keith could hear the Greeks
behind him in loud argupient.
Finally Handsome seemed to
hold the floor, and when he
ceased speaking there appeared
to be general agreement.
IZEITH had an armful of leaf
and was walking to a split-
bag to dump it when Handsome
intercepted him.
“Too hota, boss ... No gooda
—hota lika da lire.”
Keith stopped. His tall figure
towered over the stubborn dark-
visaged malcontent. Long hours
of overwork, worry and failure
had left his nerves taut as harp-
strings. His voice rose as .he
snoke.
“You no stop. Picka bacca—
why, you’ve only just started!”
The Greek waved an arm
towards Keith’s neighbor’s
paddock where the men were
knocking-off: having worked
since six-o’clock.
“Other mans knocka#off, this
mans knocka-off.”
Keith explained, “Those men
started early, you started late.
You worka to dinner-time.”
Handsome fell back on
ignorance. “No understanda,
Boss. Men finish.”
At a loss what to do Keith
saw the others walking towards
them. They all seemed to have
mastered one word of English
and kept repeating it:
“Finish.”
Keith’s anxiety grew. Did they
mean to pull out and leave him
stuck?
“All right, stop now. Dinner
... resto ... Picka more bacca?”
Handsome interpreted, and to
Keith’s relief four dark heads
nodded.
Keith ordered briefly, “O.K.
Roll up bundles and carry out
to tractor.”
It certainly was hot. The air
before him was a shimmering
blue as he drove along the dusty
track towards the sheds. The
metal of the tractor scorched his
flesh.
The Greeks sprang from the
sledge as he pulled up, and
started to carry the bundles of
leaf into the stringing-shed. Peg
walked over to Keith.
“We’re just about out of leaf
“ That's the one Mum taught me, Dad”
—you haven’t stopped picking,
have you?”
Keith swore. “Yes, they
reckon it’s too hot, now. Thought
they were going to pull out
altogether. They saw Collins’s
men knock-off.”
The women stringers looked
across at them. They were wives
of workers on the irrigation-
project and did this work with
an eye to buying a home or
business of their own. They were
conscientious workers, paid by
the piece to string the leaves on
sticks for curing. One of them
said, “That leaf won’t keep us
going long. What’ll we do? We
can’t work late; we have to get
tea at home.”
Peg anticipated Keith’s
irritated reply: “It can’t be
helped, Mrs. Hopkins. You’ll be
paid wages if you’re held up and
can’t earn them by the stick.
Keith and I will have to finish
it tonight.”
Keith switched-off the tractor,
and walked to a tap to wash the
gum from his hands and arms,
stooping to gather some dust on
his wav to helo in the nroeess.
He was tired of all the
arguments.
'THEY had finished lunch and
he had helped to dry the
dishes. He was impatiently
pacing the veranda, waiting for
half-past-two, when the Greeks
had agreed to start work again.
Peggy watched him.
“It’s no use worrying yourself,
dear you’re doing your best.
Just relax.”
Keith stopped his pacing.
“ ‘Relax,’ she says! Picking
just started and we’re held-up
like this!”
Peg’s voice trembled a little:
“Well, Keith, if you think it
helps to wear yourself out
fretting it’s all right with me,
but it doesn’t help me much.
I’m in it, too, you know.”
“Cripes, Peg, I’m sorry. But
it means I’ll have to go right on
picking tomorrow and the next
day. The tobacco needs water-
ing and I must spray, too ; the
grubs are getting in. But I can’t
afford to lose a bam ; that’s at
least £3OO. Two more days like
this and we’re down five hundred
quid. What’s the time?”
“Nearly two-o’clock. Not
much cooler, is it?”
“No. I fhink I’ll take that
melon I put under the tank out
to the boys—might create a bit
of goodwill. They might be all
right if it wasn’t for Handsome.
If I sacked him I bet they’d
all go.”
It was nearly dark when Keith
unloaded the last of the day’s
picking. The stringers had left
and agreed to come the next day
and Keith, with some difficulty,
made it clear to the Greeks that
he wanted a six-o’clock start in
the morning.
He told them they could
knock-off when they had picked
enough to fill the barn, but the
following day he would expect
a full barn picked. (
Keith and Peggy had a hurried
tea and then set in to string the
rest of the tobacco on to sticks.
It was a poor day’s output: no
more than enough leaf to half-
fill the barn, and it had cost as
much to gather as a full barn
should. To add to this they had
to finish the stringing themselves,
and that would take until mid-
night.
■jVrEXT day was not quite so
bad. The Greeks started at
six and filled the barn by four-
o’clock, taking a two-hour break
in the heat of the'day.
There had been a little trouble
keeping the pickers moving. They
didn’t seem to see the necessity
to bustle at the light job and
get it finished during the cool
of the day. Handsome had to
be watched all the time to
prevent him picking green leaf,
or leaving ripe leaf unpicked.
Keith took another melon to
their hut after tea and, eating it
with them, explained, as well as
he could, the necessity of com-
pleting the picking of enough
leaf for one barn in one day.
Handsome at once suggested
more men, and Keith patiently
explained f hat men could not be
found and, in any case, he was
only asking for a normal day’s
work. He couldn’t tell how
much of all this they understood.
When he rose to go there was
a jabbering conference initiated
by Handsome, after which he
turned to Keith:
“Men say resto next day —
picka bacca gooda day next.”
Keith said angrily “No! Pick
tomorrow.”
The Greek grinned confidently.
“No. Town tomorrow . . .
beero.”
There was more jabbering of.
rapid Greek.
Keith interrupted it desper-
ately. “Tomorrow pick three-
hundred sticks, finish early, all
go town —me drive you in—all
beero.”
He managed to give a fair
imitation of a friendly grin as
he finished. He had reduced the
necessary pick by a hundred
sticks, and would lose more
valuable tobacco, but he must
compromise ; there was no other
labor.
It took time, but finally they
grasped his meaning when he
aided his words with grotesque
demonstrations of driving a car
and raising a glass to his lips.
He spent most of the night
tending the curing-barn and was
utterly weary when he got his
pickers out in the morning. They
seemed cherful, anxious to work,
and frequently made motions of
drinking; laughing and saying
“Beero.”
Having started them off Keith
returned to his breakfast and
asked Peggy to collect the women
from the camp. There was
trouble with the barn. Tempera-
ture and humidity were wrong
and had to be adjusted.
Peg came to ask for the car
key. “How are they today?
Things any better, Keith?”
Keith mopped the sweat and
the steam from the barns off
his bare chest and arms.
“They seem O.K. Hope for
the best.”
Peggy looked at his haggard
face. “Must you go in tonight,
Keith? You had no sleep at all
last night, you know, and very
little the night before. You’ll
never see the season out if you
go on like this.”
Keith’s voice was strained and
impatient. “Look, Peg,, don’t
fret. I’ll get Colin to keep an
eye on the barn. I must go in
with them ; I hope to get the
Greek at the restaurant to
interpret for me and get some
sense into them.”
Peggy took the key and went
away looking very worried.
YX/HAT with getting the curing-
’ * temperature ri gh t and
steady, and a few odd jobs, it
was time for the smoke-oh
before Keith could leave for the
paddock. Peggy had returned
with the stringers and got it ready
for him to take with him.
As he drove through his farm
he felt almost cheerful in spite
of weariness. It was a glorious
morning, not yet hot and a
light mist hung over the bush.
The distant mountains were
shrouded in light cloud. Soon
he could see his tobacco between
the tall timber and hear the
Greeks. They were singing—that
sounded better. He pulled up
on the headland and they came
at his cooee.
They were in a happy mood
as they drank black tea and ate
scones and cake; Keith felt
almost grateful to them.
Smoke-oh finished, he walked
into the tobacco to collect the
bundles of leaf in the split-bags.
He immediately noticed
quantities of ripe, almost yellow,
leaf on picked plants. His
anger rose —what sort of a game
was this? He could hear the
snap-snap .of leaf being broken
from the plants away to his
right. As he walked towards the
sound he gathered ripe leaf
that had been left. Soon he
had an armful.
They didn’t hear him coming.
He stopped to watch. There were
about ten rows of tobacco-plants
on a strip of extra-rich soil. They
had grown very lush and rank
and we r e still green and a


Between
Ourselves
m
n
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
A “must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
A.P.M. WINS COAL TO MAKE PAPER (No. 4of a series )
| H •• -• § & \ s s/l
% s§& f p| s S v-\Y ••'<;/ jps || |
- ■ ’
lllili
Hi
,::v, : -; ; y.
litPPPill
*
7 ■’ ■■
' *
r 7;
Y *>
£$?»&#«?$
■ - y ~ji&'i 4' j'fP: v C^sm
liii
?fi?s%
7\\<--
*iV
£»
i
Mb: : ISSSv. 7Sji
A giant spoon feeds Power to Paper!
To keep its mills producing, A.P.M.—
Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited
—must be sure of a regular supply of coal.
Brown coal for the Company’s mills in the
Melbourne area comes from an open cut
which A.P.M. operates at Bacchus Marsh
31 miles from Melbourne. The open cut is
worked by a subsidiary company known
as Maddingley Brown Coal Pty. Ltd.
Today, at Bacchus Marsh, power shovels
—like giant spoons—scoop up brown coal
at the rate of some 1,700 tons daily . . .
420,000 tons each year. Since operations
began, approximately 2% million tons of
brown coal has been won from the
Maddingley open cut. yield fills
A.P.M.’s local needs. It frees the Com-
pany’s Melbourne mills from the need to
depend on black coal or other fuel supplies
which have to be freighted long distances.
It also supplies an economic fuel to other
Victorian industries.
The development of the Maddingley open
cut contributes to the efficiency and econ-
omy of A.P.M.’s operations as Australia’s
largest manufacturer of wrapping paper
and paperboard*, and adds to the develop-
ment of Australia’s natural resources.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard,
fibreboard and other, heavy-weight paper.
Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
mn
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in
Victoria, Botany, N.S.W., and Petrie, Queensland.
way from ripening. He had
pointed them out to the Greeks
as not being ready to pick ; in
fact, used them as an example of
the difference between mature
and still-growing leaf.
They were in this. Raising
their hands high they would rip
it down from halfway up the
plant, tearing the green leaf off
in handfuls. One man was
taking it from them and placing
it in the centre of bundles, which
he then rolled up. They had
found a way to fill the barn
rapidly.
No wonder they were cheer-
ful ; they hoped to be in town
drinking beer with Keith before
the bundles were unrolled.
The taut wires of Keith’s
control snapped.
“That’ll do, you filthy Dago
swine!”.he bellowed. “Come
and get your bloody cheques.”
Handsome looked up, all
innocence. ■ “No understanda,
Boss.”
Keith made for him and,
shaking his fist under the
beautiful nose, roared, “You
understanda this, you bastard,
get out of this paddock and get
moving—quick.”
The Greeks suddenly became
silent and started moving
towards the tractor. Keith
yelled again, gesticulating
towards the bundles of leaf:
“Pick-up first, you bastards.”
When they had loaded they
made to get on the sledge, but
he drove them off, leaving them
to walk.
As he drove he cursed: good-
bye to his crop now —that meant
goodbye his farm. Well, it had
to be, no man could stand for
that —they would have broken
him in the end anyway.
He looked angrily over his
farm ; the land he had cleared,
the irrigation-ditches, the young
fruit-trees not yet bearing, the
shade-trees not yet half-grown,
about the home he had built.
The women were waiting to
string the leaf. Peggy was still
in the house. He carried a
bundle to each stringer’s bench,
opened it, and went to find
Peggy.
He found he was trembling.
Peggy came to the door.'
“What is it, Keith —trouble?”
His voice sounded strange to
him: “I’ve sacked the lot.”
“Oh, Keith! Why?”
Peggy began to weep. He
told her the story. Indignation
dried her tears. .
“Right-oh, Keith, I’ll make out
the wages-book and the cheques
and bring them out. You go and
finish unloading. But promise
to keep your hands off them—»
they’re five to one, you know.”
Keith laughed grimly. “That
won’t stop me —once they’re off
my property. I’ll settle with
Handsome then. But not while
he’s an employee.”
'T'HE Greeks had bathed and
* were packing when Peggy
brought out the wages- and
cheque-books. Keith’s hand
still shook slightly as he signed
the cheques. He called to the
workers to come and collect their
pay.
’They came eagerly, pleased to
be going. They talked together
excitedly and “Sydney” could
often be distinguished among the
jabber of Greek. Handsome
pushed forward and made much
ado of checking'the wages-book.
None the wiser for all his fuss,
he finally signed *and took his
cheque. The others followed,
signed and took their cheques in
silence. Keith was seated on a
bench, Peggy was at his side, the
women stringers watched
interestedly.
It was the young Greek Toni
who started all the fuss. He was
the pick of the lot, too. He
rushed excitedly at Keith waving
his cheque and pointing at it.
Keith stood up, “What the
hell’s wrong with you? All same
money.”
Toni shook his head and
waved the cheque under Keith’s
nose.
„ “Look, laddie, if you do that
too long I’ll drop you.” Keith’s,
voice was a threat even the
Greek could understand.
Toni shook his head again,
waved his arms and ran to a
bare space on the earth floor
of the stringing-shed. Smoothing
the dust, he wrote in large
letters, S-T-A-Y-N-E-S.
Peggy and Keith walked over
to watch.
Toni pointed to the name and
then to Keith.
Keith nodded, “Yes, me.”
Toni put the letter K before
the word and pointed again.
Keith nodded again, greatly
mystified. An olive hand swept
away the K and Toni’s fingers
wrote again. R-I-C-A-R-D-0
V-I-C-T-O-R-I-N-O appeared
before the name.
Keith stared. Peggy slipped
quietly away.
The Greek was becoming
excited again. The others had
gathered and were repeating,
“Ricardo Victorino Staeeneese.”
Slowly Keith realised it was
the Greek equivalent of his
brother’s name, Richard Victor
Staynes. He pointed to himself,
shook his head, and said, “Him
my brother—you know him?”
Handsome started to talk in
rapid Greek and Peggy arrived
with a photograph in her hand.
She gave it to Keith.
“Dick’s photo, Keith. Show
it to them.”
Toni grabbed it and gazed at
it for a second, then showed it
to his staring countrymen. Keith
was also excited now —news of
his brother after all these years.
If only they could speak
English or he Greek. Peggy
squeezed his hand.
“Let them talk it out, Keith
—we’ll find it all out later.”
Handsome was talking to his
countrymen in a tone of
authority. There was some
discussion, but finally they all
seemed satisfied with what he
proposed. Suddenly he became
fluent in a crude English. He
spoke grandly, like a mayor at a
civic reception.
“Ricardo Victorino Staeeneese
very brava man, vera gooda man.
Me unda da grounda. Toni
father him unda da grounda.
Him hida da Ricardo. Toni sista
Rosa vera beautifulla girl, lova
da Ricardo. All village worka
unda da grounda, Nazi vera
bada mans. One Nazi takea
Rosa, Ricardo killa him. Many
Nazi come shoot all village.
Ricardo come from hide, him
say, ‘Me doa inna da dirty Nazi’;
sava da village. All Nazi shoota
Ricardo. Village never forgetta
da brava Australiana. Toni
father tella him never forgetta.
You brother Ricardo Staeeneese,
we no go Sydney, we picka da
bacca gooda, harda. We tella
da Toni mother and da beauti-
fulla x ßosa we picka bacca
Ricardo brother. All vera
prouda.”
KEITH, confused between
surprise and pride at the
news of his elder brother and
the sudden solution of his own
problem, stood silent for a
moment. Then he stretched out
his hand.
“0.K., Handsome, that’s a
bet; but, by cripes, it’s beero
tonight ail right!”
ALCESTE’S RESOLUTION
My need too for beginnings drove me here :
to a mountain charred by the moon and sun
where ,a hawk drowning in a lake of air
tears the light with claws of pain.
And here upon the mountain in the snow
/ find myself alone and half-accursed.
A beginning is a need, a way to go.
There is no image for the spirit’s thirst.
I sought this last extremity of mind:
my need for order killed the heart
and brought me to this place alone
with nothing but dry cliffs of stone
and a tall house in a waste of ice . . .
1 came out here for solace, a recluse
against the nightmare of the world,
where hawk and stone seemed reconciled.
But what can grow in slate and stone ?
Though meanings grow in the defiled
chaotic cities of the brain,
the sterile is the simple, reconciled.
And now I know that I must turn and go
to the seething cities of the plain ;
that here my meanings cannot grow
in the dumb splendor of the sterile snow:
that even there the light is thorned with pain.
TASMANIA,
VIVIAN SMITH.


CLEAR 5 ACRES AN HOUR
Pafenf No. 156596
'
WMMA
smm
0/ e &&7’ GGOWfflf
R&P&6PROH7&
OPERATING COSTS ONLY I/- AN ACRE!
• Fits any tractor P.T.O* Clears an
Bft. strip.
• High tensile Manganese alloy steel
chains harden with use.
•Adjustable friction type coupling
cushions shock loads.
• Price only £l9B F.0.R., F. 0.8., all
capital cities.
■ 9 The “Arthur” Rotary Slasher
will clear 5 to 7 acres an hour,
even in tough, dense growth and
operating costs average only 7/6
an hour I Bring YOUR pest-
smothered land into production in
one season !.... increase your land
values overnight! Arrange a
demonstration with your nearest
Distributor 1
TODSON
Write to the Manufacturers for Illustrated Literature
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS— S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Power Plant Ltd. VIC.: Moore
Road Machinery Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: Wigmoreg Ltd.;
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe; British Tractors
Pty. Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day and Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle
Motors, Maekay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. N.'Z.: Andrews & Beaven, Ltd., 359
Moorhouse Road, Christchurch. Export Enquiries to Manufacturers.
m
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOB
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all' the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
“National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing, Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY • W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd,
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Vardon Price Ltd.
PERTH • Docket Book Co. (Anst.)
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In .Divorce.
TO SYDNEY PATTERSON FAIRHALL
formerly of Wickham. N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that HOPE FAIRHALL has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3232 of 1966 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
add habitual drunkenness and cruelty and
habitual drunkenness and leaving without
support during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
29th of January 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
W. D. SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BERNARD JOSEPH GALLAGHER
formerly of 65 Bettington Street Miller’s
Point—TAKE NOTICE that IVY SYLVIA
GALLAGHER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3831 of 1966 on the grounds
that during three years and upwards you
have been an habitual drunkard and have
habitually been guilty of cruelty towards
her and that during three years and up-
wards you have been an habitual drunkard
and have habitually left her without the
means of support If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the sth February 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors,
of 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BRIAN DANIEL SHORTT late of
Bentley via Lismore in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that LOLA
CORALIE SHORTT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 626 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1954 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
30th January 1957 and obtain a? copy of
the Petition without charge from COLLINS
& POLLACK, Solicitors, of Post Office
Chambers, Victoria Street, Grafton, or their
Sydney Agents, SMITHERS, WARREN &
LYONS, Solicitors, of 169 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,. Registrar.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBEKTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUXJLA93.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches Ln ail States Agencies In all Country Centres
A Christmas-girt to
Foscinote-
“THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING”
A "Bulletin' 1 Bestseller
6 j
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia ioo years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography in the short space of three years
since it was first published in book-form.
“The Letters of Rachel, Henning” read like a
romantic novel. If you have never read them there is
real delight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise what a charming present they will make for
a friend.
Not the smallest attraction of the book are the
40 exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Henning" will be
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon receipt
of 7s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
and branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy books by Mary Johnston,
particularly By Order of the Com-
pany and The Old Dominion. —6426.
To buy The Riddle of the Lands,
by Erskine Childers; also Rogues’
Paradise.-—6427.
Information Supplied
Further on the bell made from
an old saw-blade (from Mr. H. J.
Hillier, 20 Wellesley-avertue, Evan-
dale, S.A.): Anyone at a garage
could make one, I suppose. We
used to make them from an old pit-
saw blade, the ends brazed together
so that the bell would measure about
6in. at the top, with a mouth about
sin. x 4in. and knocker with a knob
of about *in. They could be heard
for miles.
Information Sought
A home-treatment for (1) borers th
furniture, (2) carpet-beetles ?
(1) Almost impossible with borers
in furniture. Fumigation is an
effective, but difficult, remedy that
requires expert execution. When
borer-infestation is apparent, the
borers have usually done their
damage inside the wood and made
their adult-exit through the surface-
holes; the presence of larvae in the
wood must then be expected. A
suitable syringe-injected chemical is
sometimes used. (For information
on this method, write the N.S.W.
Forestry Division of Wood Tech-
nology, 96 Harrington-street, Sydney,
stating your specific requirements.)
(2) These insect-larvae are easily killed,
and aren’t the type to come back for
more. Carpet-beetles attack the
untrodden edges of carpets and parts
under the furniture where it is dark
and undisturbed. Spraying likely
places, with any good household
insecticide about once a month
should keep them in check. Dabbing
the carpet with kerosene is very
effective; it dries-up cleanly without
damaging the fabric. Beware of
inflammability until it dries. As
well, the vacuum-cleaner will
generally do a job on the carpet-
beetle.
* * • *
Some information on the South
Pacific Commission ?
The South Pacific Commission i$
an advisory and consultative body
set-up in 1947 by the six Govern-
ments responsible for the administra-
tion of Island Territories in the
South Pacific region (Australia,
France, the Netherlands, New
Zealand, the U.K. and the U.S.A.).
Operating from its headquarters at
Noumea, New Caledonia, the com :
mission recommends to the member-
Governments means of promoting the
social, economic and health well-being
of the people of these territories. It
consists of 12 commissioners, two
from each Government, and normally
holds one session a year. Two
auxiliary bodies, the Research Council
and the South Pacific Conference, are
operated by the commission. The
Research Council assembles once a
year; its members are appointed by
the commission, and are selected for
their special knowledge of the ques-
tions with which the commission is
concerned, and the problems of the
territories. The council’s chief func-
tion is to advise what investigations
are necessary. The South Pacific
Conference meets at intervals not
exceeding three years; it consists of
delegates from the local inhabitants
of the territories and, sometimes, their
advisers. The first conference, held
in Suva (April, 1950), was attended
by delegates from 15 territories and
from the Kingdom of Tonga; the
second, at commission headquarters
(April, 1953); the third, in Suva
(April-May, 1956). The commission’s
staff includes six principal officers:
secretary-general, deputy-secretary-
general, executive officer for health,
executive officer for economic
development and executive officer for
social development (the powers and
functions of the deputy chairman,
Research Council, are at present being
exercised by the secretary-general).
* * * *
Can a member of the United
Nations Organisation be expelled?
Yes. Membership in the United
Nations, according to Article IV of
the charter, is open to all peace-
loving States which accept the obliga-
tions contained in the charter and, in
the judgment of the organisation, are
able and willing tp carry out these
obligations. However, the charter
also provides that a member-nation
against which preventive or enforce-
ment action has been taken by the
Security Council may, on the Security
Council’s recommendation, be sus-
pended by the General Assembly from
the exercise of the rights and
privileges of membership. If a
member-nation persistently violates
the principles of the charter, the
General Assembly, again on the
Security Council’s recommendation,
has the power to expel the member
from the organisation. As with other
important decisions of the General
Assembly, a two-thirds majority of
members present and voting is needed
for the expulsion.
* * * *
(1) Did Omar Khayyam write any-
thing besides the Rubaiydt ? (2) Have
any of his other works been translated
into English ?
(1) Omar Khayyam, though best
known to the Western world as a
poet (through Edward Fitz Gerald’s
translation —which is more a para-
phrase than a translation, for
Fitz Gerald gave Omar’s poetry, in
Laurence Housman’s words, “a
reconciling beauty and flavor of his
own”), was in his own time and to his
own people, the Persians, more
highly regarded as. mathematician,
astronomer and scientist. Omar was,
in fact, one of the greatest
mathematicians of medieval times,
and did a lot of original work in
mathematics and algebra; he wrote,
in Arabic, a standard work on
algebra, and was one of eight learned
men employed by the Sultan
Malikshah to reform the calendar;
he also revised the Zij (astronomical
tables), and wrote, it is said, many
works on astronomy, mathematics,
metaphysics and philosophy. Little,
actually, is known of his life; and
he does not seem to have written
any other poetry than the quatrains
making-up the Rubaiyat —in fact, he
did not even write all of them, for
it has been established that well over
100 quatrains ascribed to Omar were
lifted from the works of other Persian
poets. (2) His standard work on
algebra has been translated into
several European languages, includ-
ing French; but not, as far as is
known, into English. The Rubaiyat
appears to be the only work of his
rendered —at least in any well-known
translation —v into English; it has
been done many times. Fitz Gerald,
who until the end of his life kept
working on the Rubaiyat x published
four versions anonymously during his
lifetime (the first in 1859), and a fifth
transcription appeared in 1889 after
his death. Other translators have
included E. H. Whinfield, N. H. Dole,
J, Payne, Justin McCarthy, Edward
Her on-Allen and, the latest, Arthur
J. Arberry, who published his version
in 1952. (Omar’s poetry was little
thought-of in the Persia of his day,
and even now in the Arab world it is
believed to be not highly regarded.)
Brief Answers
8.F.: The line “A sergeant and
three constables set out from Mans-
field town” is from “Stringybark
Creek,” a ballad by an anonymous
writer which will be found in Aus-
tralian Busk Ballads, edited by
Douglas Stewart and Nancy Keesing.
R.B.F.: The lines are from Henry
Lawson’s poem “Song of the Darling
River”... .0.W.: Hoyts’ De Luxe
Theatre in Bourke-street, Melbourne,
was built in 1916, as a picture-theatre,
and started off showing silent films.
Before 1916 there was a hall, known
as the St. George’s Hall, on the site.
N.J.: Write G. G. Allen, Hon.
Secretary, the Recording Society of
Australia, 31 The Park, Parramatta
(N.5.W.)... .C.L.E.: Try either
Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 202 George-
street, Sydney, or Messrs. Berkelouw,
38 King-street, Sydney P.O’S.:
Write C. B. Berckelman, Hon.
Secretary, Book Collectors’ Society of
Australia, Box 905, G.P.0., Sydney.
. ...H.T.H.: Difficult to say what
you should do without knowing what
tnfe papers are and what part of the
Federal Government has lost them.
If you feel that your solicitor is not
being sufficiently diligent, you may,
if you wish, request the Law Institute
to investigate the matter N.D.F.:
The owner of shares is responsible for
calls on them, marriage or no
marriage G.K.: William Archer
(1856-1924), English dramatic critic
and playwright, was the eldest son of
Thomas Archer (1823-1905), the
Queensland pioneer. William was not
born in Australia, and visited it only
once, in 1876-77, when he came to see
his parents and stayed with them at
Gracemere, near Rockhampton. His
A Ramble Round gives pictures of
Melbourne and Sydney of that period.
J.R.D.: Ada Cambridge’s second
volume of poetry, Unspoken
Thoughts (1887), was issued anony-
mously and was suppressed almost at
once, probably because the authoress
felt that, as a clergyman’s wife, her
independence of outlook on social
and religious questions might be
embarrassing to her husband. The
book is now rare 8.W.: An
account of Joseph Holt will be found
in Serle’s Dictionary<_ of Australian
Biography. See also T. Crofton
Croker’s Memoirs of Joseph Holt,
General of the Irish Rebels in 1798,
G. W. Rusden’s Curiosities of
Colonisation, W. E. H. Lecky’s A
History of Ireland in the Eighteenth
Century and Historical Records of
Australia (series I, V-01. 11).... L.S.:
William Collins (Overseas), Ltd., 527
Little Collins-street; William
Heinemann, Ltd., 346 Little Collins-
street; Longmans, Green and Co.,
Ltd., 531 Little Collins-street; and
Oxford University Press, 346 Little
Collins-street all Melbourne
W.H.T.: Strange New World: The
Adventures of John Gilbert and
Ludwig Leichhardt, by A. H.
Chisholm; second edition published
by Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
in 1955 R.P.: (From the Depart-
ment of Technical Education,
Sydney): Small hollow-concrete cast-
ings, not subject to any great stress,
could be adequately reinforced with
a wrapping of jin. galvanised-birdwire
(mesh) held at angles with vertical
robs of |in. diameter. For greater
strength, the castings could be rein-
forced with a wrapping of A.R.C.
Fabric (No. 688), which consists of
galvanised-steel (wire, mesh) welded
at intersections. Castings constantly
in contact with water should be con-
structed of concrete made waterproof
by use of a compound such as non-
porite, included in the mixture in
accordance with manufacturer’s
directions.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
“The Ghost of Billy-
goat Swamp” was ordered off the
premises S.C.W.: No fair girl was
ever won by such feeble rhymes
H.2.H.: Whenever we sight that
venerable club bore we invariably
duck out the back entrance....
J.E.D.: Referred “Wine, Women and
Song” to Religious Editor, who
declared that you lack experience
T.F.: Quite frankly we do not know
what you could do with your song in
praise of a soup-kitchen except eat
the darned thing H.W.G.: Not a
week passes but some city poet wishes
that he was back in Tibooburra or
some other place
Where life is free-and-easy,
The days are bright and breezy,
• The pub is cool and shady
And the barmaid is no lady.
....C.McN.: We have a dim
recollection of having tossed that old
codger out a couple of months ago.
M.G.: Have noted the fact that
In other lands from us afar
Nations are engaged in battle,
But here blooms the red waratah
And also the golden wattle!
A.P.: Before submitting further
examples of your rustic humor we
suggest that you buy a new type-
writer-ribbon K. 8.: What gave
you the idea that we would “welcome
with open arms” that limerick about
the young lady from Hobart?
C.C.: You have a long journey ahead
of you... .H.R.S.: Your moving
finger’s writ and, having writ, moves
on A.E.W.: Nothing new in
remarks on modem art K.J.D.:
We’ll have one surprising quatrain:
Do not blame the common mind
For seeking common thoughts,
If he finds something higher
He has stumbled on but borts.
.. ..J.C.: Dog-poem cheerful but
dreadful... .H.M.S.: Likewise the
horse L.D.: Very slight....
H.R.: Well, it’s the first Christmas
poem this year 1.J.5.: Artless.
....H.8.: Hardly seems fair to start
d poem with
Oh come with me to Onslow beach
And look as far as thine eye can reach,
and then start talking about bombs.
•• • ■ A.F.: How much modern poetry
have you read? N.H.J.: A
glimmer in it K.L.: We get so
many old-timers J.U.: All light-
weights .... W.S.: Let’s see some
others P.F.H.: If you could have
refrained from rhyming “arm” with
"palm” and “jaw” with “bore ; at
least in successive stanzas.. . .L.S.:
Less facile, more condensed, they
might stand a chance... .K.McA.:
Something to it; but it needs much
polishing... .R.G.E.: Modesty, to
say nothing of poetry, forbids the
publication of the whole of your
rhymed tribute; but we must at least
have the triumphant conclusion:
Last—but not least —its strong editorials
Are well worth keeping as perpetual
memorials.
E.H.: Good line about the snow-
flake; the rest’s too much Blake.
... .E.C.: Would like to quote your
rude last rhyme but 8.W.: “I
have only written my second poem
and wondered if you would mind.’
Don’t mind if you write two-
thousand G.D.: Original, anyhow.


Not All Are Man-eaters
Know Your Sharks
By FRANK SNOW
White Pointer, or White Death
WHILE conceding there’s
always a high shark-
danger around our
coast, we can at least
be thankful to learn that only
one-seventh of our shark species
—and there are 90 all told—are
known or suspected man-eaters.
Moreover, we can count on
32 of the other species being
definitely harmless, another four
probably so, and one harmless
“unless cornered.” The likeli-
hood of any of the other 40
species attacking humans is still
in the lap of ichthyological
lesearch.
That’s according to latest
scientific ddta as compiled by
lan S. R. Munro, taxonomic
specialist at the C.5.1.R.0.’s
Division of Fisheries and
Oceanography at Cronulla
(N.S.W.).
Mr. Munro recently completed
an encyclopaedic-style Handbook
of Australian Fishes which gives
a brief but up-to-date summary
of the diagnostic characters and,
where possible, an illustration of
all the known fish fauna of
Australia, comprising consider-
ably more than 2000 species.
Before being made available
in book-form, the handbook is
being serially published in the
Commonwealth Government’s
“Fisheries Newsletter,” issued
monthly by the Department of
Primary Industry. Introducing
the series in its July issue,
“Fisheries” said:
“Many of our fish species are
known only to a few professional
ichthyologists who have access
to innumerable scientific mono-
Whale-shark
graphs and journals No
author has hitherto produced a
comprehensive work in which
are included all the fishes now
known to occur in the marine
and fresh waters of this country
the illustrated catalogue will
be published in parts over the
space of several years.”
Sharks take up the greater
part of the first three instalments
(July, August, September), and
these, when put together, are in
effect a quick-reference directory
to our shark-population and
apart from direct value to
commercial and suchlike fisheries
could be used as a rattling good
everyman’s guide to the identity
of sharks.
In other words —a “must” for
Southern Saw-fish
a surf-loving nation, not just for
the fishing-industry.
Without waiting for the rest
of Mr. Munro’s handbook to
appear in print, the shark-section
might well be turned immediately
mto a small separate booklet and
copies issued free to, say, all
surf-lifesa.ving clubs.
After all, shark-alarms are
part and parcel of every popular
beach’s safety-measures, and it
certainly wouldn’t go amiss for
patrolmen to have ready access
to an elementary knowledge of
our shark-life —to know at least
something about how to dis-
tinguish the goodies from the
baddies.
Indeed one wonders, after
glancing through Mr. Munro’s
information about sharks, how
many times the cry of “Shark!”
or the sound of a shark-belt
might have unnecessarily plunged
thousands of surfers into panic
just because somebody, in all
good faith, saw a shape in the
water he mistook for a man-
eater.
Common Saw-shark
Certainly it’s better, where
sharks are concerned particu-
larly, to be safe than sorry. But
better still —’and yet safer, too —
if in the first place we'can be
sure.
For instance, who’d have
thought that the whale-shark,
found in N.S.W. waters and the
Great Australian Bight, and
attaining up to 45ft. in length—
the world’s largest shark —was
harmless? Mr. Munro assures us
it is, as is another hefty species,
the basking-shark (up to 36ft.),
located off the coast of N.S.W.,
Victoria, S.A. and Tasmania.
Species positively dangerous,
Mr. Munro gives as:
The white-pointer, or .white-
death (“most .ferocious and
extremely dangerous”).
Blue-pointer, or mako (“savage
and dangerous”).
Common- or black-whaler
(“extremely dangerous”).
Tiger (“a voracious
scavenger”).
The grey-nurse, hammer-head,
seven-gilled, banded-wobbegong
and the tasselled-wobbegong.
The northern-whaler, the
mackerel or .porbeagle, and the
estuary-whaler are classed as
“probably dangerous,” the blue-
whaler “doubtfully dangerous,”
and the wobbegong as “harmless
unless cornered.”
He warns that the “ferocious”
white-pointer “has a habit of
entering shallow water,” and for
those who may some day find it
handy (spearfishermen?) gives
this grim tip: “easily recognised
by the large straight triangular
and coarsely-serrated teeth.”
Regarding habitat (so far as
it’s humanly possible to ascertain
the movements of marine life),
Mr. Munro gives N.S.W. the
lion’s share of the mentioned 13
species. All but two —the
mackerel (W.A. and Tas.) and
the tasselled-wobbegong (Q.
and W.A.) —are located along
the N.S.W. coast. Queensland is
next with 10, then W.A. eight,
S.A. seven, and Victoria and
Tasmania six apiece..
Species common to the waters
of all six States are the grey-
nurse, blue-pointer and hammer-
head, while all except Tasmania
have the white-pointer. N.S.W.
and Victorian waters have three
species to themselves the
northern - whaler, black - whaler
and estuary-whaler.
Sizes and sometimes weight of
these danger-tagged species, as
given in Mr. Munro’s summaries,
are: White-pointer (up to
36|ft.) ; tiger (16); grey-nurse
and hammer-head (15); blue-
pointer (13) ; black-whaler (12,
and going up to 8901 b.); nor-
thern-whaler (11, up to 4421 b.);
mackerel (10, up to 8001 b.);
seven-gilled (10); and the rest
progressively smaller, down to
the tasselled-wobbegong’s modest
4ft.
As breeders, the blue-whaler
and tiger, both viviparous, share
the Munro blue-ribbon with
births of up to 46 young, and
the hammer-head and wobbe-
gong come second, each with 37.
Edibles? My word, yes! Mr.
Munro mentions the familiar-
sounding gummy-shark, located
around the whole coast from
southern Queensland to southern
W.A., as “caught commercially
with long lines and nets” ; tho
school-shark (or tope), with a
similar habitat, though more
abundant in southern States, as
“an important edible commercial
species” ; and the slender-lined
skittle-dog or piked-dogfish,
known to N.S.W., Victoria, W.A.
and Tasmania.
Many of the species classified
as harmless belie their looks,
such as the long-snouted dogfish
and the brier-shark or dorian-
gray, both in the four-footer
category, but each with a deadly-
looking rocket-shaped bodyline.
Then there are the gargoyle-like
Port Jackson and crested Port
Jackson species, both going
4ft. to sft., the wicked-looking
six-footer sharp-toothed shark
(tropical Q.), and the heavy-
weight bramble-shark (Vic and
Great Australian Bight), attain-
ing B£ft. and 3^cwt.
Novelty-fish galore have found
their way into Mr. Munro’s
shark-index. Mostly in the
“small fry” category, they
include such strange creatures as
the luminous-shark (l|ft., N.S.W.
and northern W.A.), which glows
in the water after dark; the
swell-shark (Vic., S.A., Tas. and
southern N.'S.W.), a harmless
one-to-three-footer which, when
caught, inflates itself with air
and water; and then the dopey-
looking epaulette-shark (3ft.,
tropical Q. and W\A.), sd harm-
less “it gropes about in half-
blind fashion and can be caught
easily by hand.”
Perhaps the most fearsome-
looking of all Australian sharks
—but dangerous or harmless, Mr.
Munro doesn’t say is the
southern saw-shark (4ft., S.A.,
Vic., Tas. and southern W.A.),
a horrible piece of work, for all
the world like a legless dragon,
with a long, teeth-edged snout
and having, we’re told, “35-39
rows of teeth in its upper jaw.”
Almost as loathsome-looking,
and with a yet-more-formidable
battery of teeth—“ 42 rows in
upper jaw”—is the common saw-
shark, the same length as the
other and with southern N.S.W,
added to its habitat.
Basking-shark
Coffee with Cream
By M. B. CAVANOUGH
IN the 30-odd years I have
lived in Melbourne I have
fallen ready victim to most
of the crazes that have swept
through this city.
In my boyhood I squandered
my pocket-money acquiring rare
skill at miniature-golf. A few
years later, had I noticed the
sober citizen opposite me in the
train pull out his yo-yo for a
little quiet practice my only
• comment would have been on
his technique. Just a while back
I trained myself to greyhound
fineness in my enthusiasm for
square-dancing. Currently, I
am a victim of. the most expen-
sive fad of the lot I am an
addict of espresso coffee.
In case the word “espresso” is
not familiar where you live,
you’d best be prepared ; for it
will come your way as surely as
there are 20 shillings in a pound.
I can best describe a typical
espresso-coffee lounge by con-
trasting it with that dim rendez-
vous you may have known in
other days —shaded lamps, dim
nooks, and that sort of thing.
By contrast, an “espresso” is
certainly not dim ; it is berserk
with light and color.
Fluorescent-tubes make sure
you miss none of the surrealistic
murals done at no small expense
by the most fashionable con-
temporary artists.
These murals are usually
related to the name of the place.
If the lounge is called some-
thing Parisienne you are certain
to get a vague impression of
impossibly-shaped chorines doing
a version of the can-can that
would have surprised Hoffmann.
If the name suggests Man-
hattan or Fifth Avenue you’ll
eat alongside towering sky-
scrapers designed apparently by
one of Walt Disney’s artists in
delirium-tremens.
If the name has a Mexican
flavor you are apt to catch a
lOft.-high senorita leering at you
through a plantation of cacti.
Not to be outdone by his
rival with the higher professional
rating, the ordinary house-
painter who was called in to
complete the decorating dipped
into his brightest pots. Wherever
paint could be applied he
splashed on scorching reds and
searing yellows, vivid greens and
screaming pinks—and, as likely
as not, alternate streaks of the
lot.
The next contrast between the
old rendezvous and the “es-
presso” hits where it hurts most
—in the pocket. In the other
you had a cup of dirty-brown
coffee that tasted like acorns, and
you got a ham-sandwich: it cost
perhaps a shilling.
At the “espresso” a waiter
who must surely have speftt years
with the best families offers you
with , one hand a contemporary
wooden tray displaying a wide
choice of open-faced sandwiches,
and with the other a selection of
cakes richly iced and oozing
cream.
An open-faced sandwich, by
the way, is the same as any other
sandwich except that the top
slice of bread has been cannily
omitted.
Whether you select a sandwich
or a cake the bill for your choice,
plus coffee, will make you wince.
Don’t, unless you are eating on
an expense-account, choose both
cake and sandwich.
Before the bill spoils the
taste, you will like the food. The
selection of “fillings” for the
bread is catholic enough to
appeal to any palate. You will
find sundry types of smoked-fish,
more varieties of sausage than
you knew existed, cheeses that
range from a mild-cream to a
tangy gorgonzola, and a colorful
choice of gherkins, onions* and
unidentified snippets to garnish
your preference. The bread
itself is tasty enough to eat
unadorned.
If you like cake, I guarantee
an “espresso” cake will bring a
seraphic glow to your face.
Good though the food is it
runs a poor second to the coffee.
It is the coffee itself that is
“espresso,” which, actually, is
the name given to the method
by which the brew is concocted.
The term seems to imply that
the evolution from beans to
liquid is accomplished in double-
quick time, and by the look of
the machine that does the job
I can well believe it.
The espresso-machine is a
hissing, gleaming monster that
looks like a cross between the
drivjng-compartment of an old-
fashioned cable-tram and a
space-ship. The look of the thing
is probably responsible for the
decor of the lounges. You could
not imagine it in the decorous
setting of an old-style coffee-
lounge.
When you order your coffee
the attendant pushes against a
lever about 2ft. long; heaves
backwards on another equally
massive; the engine of the thing
clanks and gurgles, spits and
hisses —and out of a long spout
pours a stream of the best coffee
you have ever tasted.
I don’t know whether there
{Continued on page 34)


SOLLS
%w
cists
A
h<W eS
oU*»
o
ROLLS
RAZOR
ONE
BLADE
SAFETY
nm
n
mn
m
nm
n
HONED
*%ND STROPPED
IN ITS CASE
Even a Roll a can'be improved! Post-war research has
developed a sensational new Rolls SUPER Blade with
an even keener cutting edge for smoother, more
luxurious shaves and still longer shaving life.
Honed and stropped in its case, the new-process,
hollow-ground Sheffield steel blade gives you years of
comfortable shaving from the one blade—saves you
pounds on blades. Gives you a close, "open blade”
shave with the speed and ease of a safety razor. At
leading stores, chemists, tobacconists. Price, £5/7/6.
Now ... better than ever!
ROLLS RAZOR
THE WORLD’S FINEST SHAVING INSTRUMENT
ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA Pty. Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors:
E. H. MAAS & sons PTY. ltd., 8a Castlereagh St., Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
RED MILL RUM.
Olympic Fever
T NEVER thought to see the
day when a bookmaker’s
attention could be distracted
from betting; I’ve seen two
fires at Flemington, and the only
effect of the smoke billowing
through the ring was to make the
bagmen’s voices a "bit hoarser.
But Olympic Fever, coupled
with the extraordinary events at
Flemington on Olympic Cup
Day, did what smoke and fire
couldn’t do.
Initial distraction came at
midday, just as betting began on
the first event, when the loud-
speaker above the ring gave out
a toe-tapping ' rendition of
“Waltzing Matilda.”
For a minute or two the
bookies raised their voices to
compete, but the opposition was
too strong.
With one accord, they jumped
from their stands and, sur-
rounded by their staffs, ran to
the lawn. The punters had
perforce to follow. There, we
all stood on tiptoe to cheer an
exciting display of military
precision and band-music by
Southern Command’s Regular
Army band, due to perform on
Olympic Opening Day.
For the rest of the afternoon
the bookies overflowed with
Olympic spirit.’ Anybody with
the five magic circles on blazer
or visitor’s badge in lapel was
sure of a point over the odds!
But the most extraordinary
event was still to come. Victoria’s
popular Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, is an enthusiastic friend
of racing, but possibly his
greatest sporting love is golf.
The Olympic Cup coincided with
the final round of the Ampol
£lO,OOO golf-tournament, for
which the Governor had
promised to present the trophies.
To get to Yarra Yarra golf club
from Flemington 15 miles
even as the crow flies —Sir Dallas
and his wife travelled by heli-
copter.
Nothing could compete with
the spectacle of a helicopter
landing on Flemington’s famous
straight. Once again the ring
was deserted while we crowded
back to the lawn to watch the
vice-regal party board the weird-
looking machine. As the heli-
copter climbed clumsily above
the stand we waved our hats and
wished His Excellency a happy
landing.
After that, the betting on the
last was an anticlimax.
Bookie’s Dog.
* * *
Games Star Items
Given the honor of being the
last runner to carry the Olympic
torch into the arena and around
the oval, and so to light the
flame in the ceremonial urn,
was world junior mile-champion
Ron Clarke, of Victoria. Despite
which record-holding he did not
make Australia’s Olympic team.
Clarke was the runner for
whom Landy sportingly stopped
in the middle of a race after
accidentally tripping him (Aus-
tralian mile-title last March —
which Landy then went on to
win).
Landy took the oath of
amateurism on behalf of all the
competing athletes, and, as at
Helsinki in 1952, it was sculler
Merv Woodv who carried Aus-
tralia’s standard.
At Helsinki the torch was
carried into the arena by* the
great Finnish runner of an
earlier day Paavo Nurmi, the
man who revolutionised long-
distance running. Nurmi won
six Olympic gold-medals, two of
them for the 10,000-metres
(1920 and 1928 Games). A
running-machine of the Nurmi
type won the 19*56 10,000-metres,
the Russian Vladimir Kuts, in
new Olympic record-time of
28min. 45.65ec.
That was the first track gold-
medal at this year’s Games, and
it culminated a mighty run.
For more than half the race the
Englishman Pirie ran on’the heels of
Kuts, and a rattling finish between
the two seemed likely; the pair have
battled-out in this fashion several
important races in Europe this year,
with the verdict going either way. But
this time it was not to be.
Kuts ran Pirie off his feet, and Pirie
finished eighth. Kovacs, of Hungary,
was second, and the still-improving
Sydney runner Allan Lawrence, the
first Australian (at Moore Park,
Sydney, last July) to break 30min. for
the distance, third.
The first five runners all beat
Zatopek’s 1952 Olympic record of
29min. 17sec.
The most thrilling event of the
second day (Friday) was . the
high-jump. At 6ft. 10iin. three
were still in it—the American
Charlie Dumas, the only man
ever to have cleared 7ft., the
Australian champion “Chilla”
Porter and the Russian Kach-
karov.
Kachkarov failed ; the other
two cleared, Dumas at his second
attempt, Porter at his third.
In growing darkness the bar then
went to 6ft. ll|in. Dumas went over
at his third attempt, to better by 3in.
American Walt Davis’s 1952 winning
height and thus win the gold-medal.
Porter failed at the height, though
he was far from disgraced. His 6ft.
IQiin. was the highest leap ever by
an Australian, and he proved a
worthy successor to John Winter, who
won the high-jump for Australia in
1948 with 6ft. 6in.
Anether Porter, from U.S.A., won
the 1908 high-jump with the then-
record Olympic leap of 6ft. 3in.
“I paid a QUID to see that!”
Two other gold-medals won
on the second day were for tfie
women’s, discus-throw, which
went to the Czech girl Fikotova,
setting a new Olympic-record
distance, 176 ft. with two
Russians (one, in third possie,.
the celebrated Ponomareva) in
the places.
The bantamweight , weight-
lifting was won by American
Charles Vinci, setting new
Olympic records. Divisions of
the weightlifting decidedfon the
third day went variously to
America and Russia.
Worthy of note on this second day,
Australia’s 2-0 hockey win over
Kenya. First time Australia’s
entered the hockey, and at least we
started with a win.
* • • •
Third day was America’s —
four of the five athletic gold-
medals decided. It was practi-
cally a foregone conclusion that
an American would win the
100-metres—Leamon King, who
the previous Saturday at Bendigo
had equalled the world-record
for 100yds. (9.35ec.), couldn’t
get a place in the team!
The final was won by Bob Morrow,
in 10.55ec., with U.S.’s Thane Baker
second and Australia’s Hec Hogan
a very creditable third —actually it
was a photo-finish for all six places.
Against a wind the Olympic record
wasn’t broken, though Morrow, in a
heat and a semi-final, and the third
U.S. runner, Ira Murchison, in a
heat, had equalled the record
(10.35ec.).
• • • •
The 400-metres hurdles was
all U.S.A., the first three places
going to America.
In the first semi-final American
Eddie Southern, set a new Olympic
time of 50.15ec., beating American
C. H. Moore’s 1952 time of 50.8 sec.
The final was also won in this new
time (50.15ec.), except that it was
Glen Davis, who had finished behind
Southern in the semi-final, who set it.
Southern came in second. Australia’s
David Lean finished fifth.
The long-jump was won by
American Greg Bell, with
25ft. Biin„ iih. better than Willie
Steele’s 1948 distance, the pre-
vious second-best leap, but well
outside Jesse Owens’s 1936
record, 26ft. 5 5-16 in. Another
American, John Bennett, was
second. Except for Willem
Pettersen, of Sweden, in 1920,
the U.S.A. has won the long-
jump at every Games.
The hammer-throw was won
by Hal Connolly (U.S.) with a
new Olympic-record throw of
207 ft, 3|in. from Krivonosov of
Russia. Connolly holds the
world-record (which Krivono-
sov has also held) with a throw
of 218 ft. set last month.
The 50-kilometre walk, the
exception to the series of U.S.
successes, was won by a young
New Zealander, Norman Read,
in 4hrs. 30min. 42.85ec., a couple
of minutes outside the Olympic
record. Read is an Englishman
who migrated in 1953. (N.Z.,
incidentally, won only one gold-
medal at Helsinki, Yvette
Williams in the long-jump.)
Australia’s stars on the third
day were its two girl-sprinters
Betty Cuthbert and Marlene
Matthews, who both qualified
for the 100-metres final (run
after this had had to go to the
printer).
In the second heat Marlene
Matthews had equalled Marjorie
Jackson’s Olympic record of 11.5 sec.
—which was also equalled in the
fourth heat by Britain’s Heather
Armitage. In the intervening heat,
however, Betty Cuthbert had set new
time, 11.4 sec. Australia’s third rep.,
Shirley Strickland, holder of the
world-record for the distance, 11.35ec.,
did not qualify for the final.
+ 4*
Fighting Force, unlucky horse
of the earlier big spring races,
came good in the final import-
ant handicap, the £4OOO
Williamstown Cup (13 furlongs)
at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. Melbourne Cup winner
Evening Peal looked a chance
near the home-turn, but she
tired quickly and finished last.
She had earned a rest.
Fighting Force was splendidly
handled by Purtell, who had a
main hand in the win in another
way: he had persuaded connec-
tions of the five-year-old horse
to start him, rather than ease
him up following his third in
the Olympic Year Cup.
In Saturday’s Queensland
Cup General Fox was too solid
for Torrock and Yukon River.
The winner, trained by W. J.
Bougoure, is. a four-year-old
gelding by Captain Fox (imp.).
He has a Queensland back-
ground, as he’s from My
Discovery, a mare bred in 1942
and belonging to an old family-
line.
In the Q.T.C. Piccaninny
Stakes Empress Alice ran the five
furlongs in 60|sec. She’s by
Emperor from Alice in Wonder-
land.
Beaupa, winner of the A.J.C.
Metropolitan and Queen Eliza-
beth Stakes, was the class horse
of the quartet ip, the £lOOO
November Handicap at Warwick
Farm on Saturday, but evidently
the stable didn’t think the Beau
Son gelding was forward
enough for a win, and he was
only mildly supported. Punters
summed-up the position as a
near-certainty for Belbeiys; who
had won at his two previous
starts in runaway fashion, but
his rider, T. Hill, didn’t rush
the Nilo gelding to a long lead
as had been done in those wins.
Weight catches up —and so
Mandingos was narrowly beaten,
after putting up a game effort,
in the Camden Handicap,
principal sprint of the day at
Warwick Farm. Mandingos had
gone up to 9.8 —a solid load
with the minimum at 7st. Timor
had 8.1, and, well ridden by
apprentice R. George, got there
in the last stride. Blazing Star
came from a rearward possie for
third-money; he might soon
win.
In the seasonal two-year-told
trials Court Slipper was regarded
as one out of the box, but at
two starts in October she
finished second to Concert Star
in the Gimcrack Stakes and
second to Estrina in the Widden
Stakes. She was then given a
light ease-up and was produced
in the Kindergarten Maiden
Stakes (two-year-old fillies) at
Warwick Farm and made a
runaway race of the five-
furlongs, which she covered in
59 3-10 sec., a course-record and
close to the Australian record.
She's by Newtown Wonder (imp.)
from Tiny Slipper by Brueghel
at).
Having his third start in a
fortnight, two - year - old colt
Royal Whisper had an easy task
in the Warwick Farm Junior
Maiden. A first foal, he’s by
Dhoti (imp.) from Court
Whisper (imp.), who won three
races in England as a three-year-
old. Third-placegetter, Prince
Tauber, looks an improver.
Sydney Turf Club chairman
Harry Tancred had a close
interest in Huntly’s win in the
Two-year-old Maiden Stakes for
colts and geldings at the Canter-
bury midweek meeting. He
bred Lisp, dam of Huntly, a son
of Tsaoko (Fr.), and raced by
Malcolm Campbell. McCarten
trains the youngster, who was
having his first race-start. The
colt showed determination to
win ; he didn’t look a show at
the home-turn. Lisp is by
Talking from Neon by Gilt
Edge from Lightsome (sister to
Gloaming) by The Welkin (imp.).
With issue of weights for the
A.J.C. Christmas double, the
£2500 Villiers Stakes (one mile)
and the £3OOO Summer Cup (H
mile), interest will now centre
on these two midsummer attrac-
tions. Speedy gallopers entered
for the mile (run on December
22) include the well-performed
Maniana, as well as Aboukir,
Plato, Magic Carpet 11, King’s
Fair, Timor, Mandingos and
Belbeiys. The last-named pair
were also nominated' for the
Summer Cup (December 26), as
were Prince Delville, Empire
Link, Baystone, Beaupa and
Prince Dante.
• t • f
Maniana, Perth’s smart
sprinter, has the Villiers as her
main mission in Sydney, but
she’s galloping well enough at
Randwick to be a chance in any
sprint.
The A.J.C. has taken unto
itself a public-relations team. In
a sort of galloping Gallup-poll
half-a-dozen men interviewed
over 200 people connected with
racing—owners, trainers, jockeys
and strappers, and the blokes
met in the Flat and elsewhere
between races. Working on the
basis of the 200 pages of notes
taken, the p.-r. men hope to
see m6re race-fans with bigger
smiles on their faces than has
been the case these past few
years. If they do no more than
inform the men who control
racing of the taste of the people
who keep it going, they will have
achieved something.,
“P.0.M.C.”: Racehorses
from New Zealand have
gathered the lion’s share of Aus-
tralia’s richest prizes in recent
years, but N.Z. jockeys seem
here to lose form eqprely. Quite
a reversal to the “good old
days,” when not only did Desert
Gold, Gloaming, Ballymena.
Night March and their like win
most of our best races but their
keenly-sought riders the
brothers Reed (Ashley and Roy),
George Y oung, Maurice
McCarten and others —did like-
wise.


Those Arnhem Land Wonders
The “Ruined City” Glows
By KEITH D. YOUNG
Captain Keith D. Young, formerly of St. Kilda, Melbourne,
now of the U.S. Air Force, sends, from his present address in
Nevada, this further interesting account of the “Ruined City”
wonders of Arnhem Land, adding his first-hand personal-experi-
ence impressions to those of Jack Wood, recorded in Mr.
Wood’s fascinating article to which Captain Young refers.
Illustrations are further examples from Mr. Wood’s photos of
the “Ruined City.”
OH, well, one thing Jack
Wood’s fine article “The
Ruined City of Arnhem
Land” (B. 26/9/’56) has
done for me is to clear up an
eight-year-old worry of mine
concerning the possibility of
there being uranium or other
radioactive mineral within the
confines or proximity of the
“Ruined City.”
There was, he says, “nary a
tick [from his geiger-counter] in
the city of sand and stone.”
So that dispels any illusions I
may have had in that direction.
However, since Mr. Wood
confirms the mysterious glow,
“lambent and luminous,” which
emanates from the “city” during
hours of darkness, I wonder if
he has any theories of his own
which may account for this quite
eerie, almost palpable
luihinosity?
Or for the equally mysterious
and inexplicable behavior of my
General Electric photographic
light-meter, the principal unit
of which is an extremely light-
sensitive photo-electric cell, and
which, while in the Ruined City,
persisted in giving such extra-
ordinary readings that I simply
was forced to ascribe them to
malfunction —or to some extferior
influence on the cell itself?
The odd feature is that the
meter resumed normal behavior
whenever I left the area.
I regret that I no longer possess
that meter; I disposed of it in
Korea a few years back. Anyway,
now that appropriate publicity
Where Jack Wood’s party made their way in.
has been given to what I con-
sider, with the possible exception
of the Great Barrier Reef,,
Australia’s greatest natural
wonder, there will doubtless be
other expeditions and parties
visiting this fantastic region. So
that the mysterious origin of
the glow may yet be explained.
I have always been unhappy
over the way in which certain
sections of the at that time.
(1948) devoted an' inordinate
amount of space to what they
seemed to consider quite positive
indications of uranium deposits,
though I must insist that I
never made such claims and will
be borne out in this by my
reports of that time.
All I suggested was that the
country in which I made my
observations might well repay
further and more competent
study than I was able to give it.
Still, it is possible, of course,
that the mere suggestion of
uranium may have been sufficient
in itself to stimulate Northern
Territory ambitions towards the
possibilities which, in Rum
Jungle and elsewhere, were later
more than amply confirmed. So
perhaps some good came out of
it after all ' . .
The question of oil, now. This
seems to be a somewhat different
proposition, one on which I may
be on safer ground. I stated at
that time, and repeat now, that
much of the territory I walked
and rode over en route to the
Ruined City was identical in
nature to that I had previously
visited in the Oklahoma oil-bear-
ing regions. Again, only theory ;
but quite possibly worthy of a
closer and more technologically-
capable scrutiny.
But, to depart from specula-
tion and deal with facts, the
greatest treasure of all consists of
the incomparable, the unique
scenic grandeur of the Ruined
City itself. In travels in five
continents, on and off the beaten
path in all of them, I have never
seen any natural wonder quite to
compare with the breathtaking
marvel of the Ruined City.
As has already been said
many times of the Great Barrier
Reef, if the Yanks only had this
to develop as a tourist-attraction
I maintain there would be a
four-lane highway running
directly'to it, with not thousands,
or tens of thousands, -but
hundreds of thousands visiting
it annually. And marvelling.
For in its own way (and I’ve
seen these others and more) the
Ruined City, in certain aspects,
surpasses both Niagara Falls and
the Grand Canyon for sheer,
jaw-dropping Wonder.
I consider myself privileged
to have' seen it and "have often
reflected on how close I came to
missing it. It was “Wingella”
(that grand old pioneer and
matriarch of the Northern
Territory) who first suggested my
visiting it. My arrangements for
the trip were pretty much the
same as Mr. Wood’s
permits from the Department of
Native Affairs, getting together
the plant, and so forth; but
apparently I fared somewhat
differently at the hands of my
two aboriginal guides, Lindsay
Dick and Gilberri.
After losing my mate, Vic
Hall, to an infected centipede-
bite at Roper Crossing I was
compelled to either push on with
only the two natives or abandon
the trip in view of the impending
“wet.” So, leaving Vic in the
capable hands of the staff of the
Roper River Mission, the three
of us pressed on.
However, as we began to get
into some of the wilder Arnhem
Land country it became obvious
that both my native guides had
considerable misgivings about
what I later learned would
amount to a serious taboo-
transgression by entering the
sacred territory of Boorooinji,
the chief “debbil” of the Ruined
City.
This, it became apparent, was
no light matter to them. The
days were filled with gloomy
forebodings of the dire fates
which befell those who offended
Boorooinji by trespassing in his
sacred and proscribed precincts.
The mutterings and whispers
between the two got so bad that
I finally forebade them to even
so much as mention the name
of Boorooinji, suggesting in its
place the name of the Ruined
City.
This, however, was not really
a great help. The jeremiads con-
tinued concerning the gigantic,
voracious snakes and other
queer beasts and phenomena that
had their abode or emanated
from what they took to calling
the “Roman Jetty.”
Also, I found that both natives
were doing all in their power
otherwise to dissuade me from
continuing. At first it consisted
of simple things—a broken pack-
saddle strap, a horse allegedly
throwing his hobbles in the night
and taking the best part of the
next morning to track and catch,
a billabong which turned out to
be dry when reached, necessitat-
ing a further ride in the wrong
direction to find another.
In addition to these petty
annoyances, both Lindsay Dick
and Gilberri pretended to be—
and perhaps they actually were-
in mortal fear of wild myalls,
whom they suggested might
attack our small party. After
all, it was their country into
which we were intruding.
And then it became apparent
that both “boys” were deliber-
ately choosing the roughest and
most heavily timbered country—
mostly that blasted lancewood—
to push through, in the hope,
I suspect, of forcing a retreat
on my part. I think I may claim
truthfully to have been well
aware of what was going on.
However, having had the experi-
ence only a few years previously
of getting out of Nazi-occupied
France with the assistance of
certain members of the French
“underground” I knew the
necessity of placing total and
unswerving reliance in local
indigenous guides even though
the routes they chose were
usually anything but the most
direct or easiest.
Some of the rocky features surrounding the “Ruined City."
So we proceeded in a some-
what circuitous manner in the
direction of the Ruined City,
which we reached, as I
remember, the fifth day out
from Urapunga. Subsequent
visitors have made it in much
less time than I took ; .but even
this meandering was not with-
out value as it took me through
country into which I swear no
•sane man would ordinarily
venture, and my observations,
though admittedly hasty and
amateurish, may one day prove
of some value.
Of the Ruined City itself I
can endorse Mr. Wood’s descrip-
tion, although I would make my
estimate of its size somewhat
larger than his —approximately
a hundred square-miles in
extent.
Like Mr. Wood, I had con-
siderable difficulty in entering
the “city,” and finally had to
climb in, a somewhat foolhardy
venture, as both my natives had
propped and positively refused
to come within a mile of the
place.
’ As Mr. Wood will testify,
climbing the crumbling escarp-
ments is not the easiest trick in
the world, and a fall ending in a
broken leg, or e\ on becoming
bushed in the multiplicity of
mazes, could very well have
spelled my doom. I whs beyond
hailing-range of my natives, who
would not in any case venture
inside the “city” to my rescue,
and who would probably have
taken my disappearance as
positive confirmation of the
existence and vengefulness of
the “city’s” guardian, Boorooinji.
Anyway, I became so
fascinated with the place that I
spent five days climbing and
exploring on my own, the two
natives eventually plucking up
sufficient courage to approach
the perimeter, but not to venture
inside.
And then what could very
well have been real tragedy
struck. In Company with the
two natives I was riding up
towards the northern end of the
“city,” trying to find a natural,
or at least an easier, entrance,
when Lindsay Dick’s mount put
its hoof in a burned-out root-
hole and crashed heavily on its
side, pinning its rider beneath it.
The rest of the animals took
advantage of the confusion to go
bush, and while Gilberri dashed
off after them I spurred up to
where the injured aborigine lay
on the ground thrashing from
side to side in pain and declaring
—and this was not a bit funny
at the time —that “Him bin kill
me!”
As near as I could determine
—he very definitely refused to
let me touch it —Dick’s leg
appeared to be broken in two
places. Eventually he calmed
down to the point where he
accepted some bark splints I cut
him from a near-by tree of
approximately the same
diameter as his leg. These he
managed to fit on something like
leggings, after which he secured
them with Softer and tape-like
strips of inner bark procured
from another tree.
Then began a nightmare
journey. Riding from sun-up to
moon-set, and at the fastest
possible pace he could stand, I
was able, in almost exactly 72
hours from the time of the
mishap, to deliver yet another
patient to the good folk at the
Roper River Mission. Thus
ended my 1948 Ruined City
Expedition.
Although I always intended
one day to return to the Ruined
City the next few years found
me in the United States Air
Force and naturally more con-
cerned with phenomena along
the Yalu than along the Roper.
However, in 1953 1 did manage
to view the Ruined City once
again.
I had wangled a leave from
Japan to my home in St. Kilda,
Victoria, and after a series of
hops which had taken me down
to the (Philippines and thence
to Hong Kong and Singapore,
found myself aboard an
R.N.Z.A.F. Sunderland flying-
boat en route from Darwin to
Townsville. The Ruined City
does not lie along the regular
air-route, but let us say .that in
this case exceptionally ' strong
southerlies aloft pushed us some-
what north of course.
Still, impressive as it
undoubtedly is from 8000 ft., the
Ruined City is best visited,
inspected and appreciated from
the ground. It is there, standing
in the deathly and almost
frightening silence of the place
and drinking in the profusion
and variety of shapes and the
bewildering, ever - changing
colors, that one feels an antlike
insignificance coupled with awe
at the wonder that time and
Nature have wrought—a wonder,
incidentally, that I consider to
be only partly duplicated in
certain areas of Utah.
I heartily concur with every-
thing Mr, Wood has said about
the Ruined City, except for one
minor statement in his otherwise
factually correct and absorbing
narrative. It is in his paragraph
wherein he credits me with refer-
ence to an “authority” who
suggests that the nightly glow in
the Ruined City is due to the
whole block having broken and
fallen off the moon.
The “authority” he mentions
happens to be, interestingly
enough, the late John Cameron,
father of Dame Mary Gilmore.
The moon theory is, of course,
absurd, a statement which Dame
Mary made herself when telling
me, after my own visit, of how
her father had passed by there,
though he had not apparently
entered the “city,” in either 1867
or ’69.
And at night from a distance,
I agree, the Ruined City, glow-
ing silently and luminously, does
indeed have the appearance of
being something not quite of this
world.
I would hate to think that
Mr. Wood considers me so
unsophisticated, or such a victim
of Boorooinji’s spell, that I
could subscribe to such a theory.
I would, however, even as he
perhaps, welcome some rational
and acceptable explanation of
the real rather than the probable
cause of the “city’s” quite
definite glow.
Fungus, reflection, moon-glow
and now radioactivity are out.
So how about it?


/
r
\
Vyorjcf’s
7/1
Augbv&lik
ju@Mfes§x '•limn!
_ 0 11 (
Lockheed Super Constellation
ACROSS 6 CONTINENTS AND OVER THE 7 SEAS
The latest in a line of distinguished
Lockheed airliners, the 1049 G version
of the Super Constellation is serving
Australia. Enjoy the quiet comfort
and speed of the world’s most luxurious
airliner. 24 world airlines feature Super
Constellation service over connecting
routes which cross every ocean and
span every continent.
Qantas , Air India International and KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines afford Super Constellation service to
5 Continents from Australia.
COMING !
The new, faster, bigger, Ibnger-range
Lockheed Luxury Liner (Model 1649).
It will make possible NON-STOP
flights both ways between the capitals
of the world.
m
fcOCKHEEO AIRCRAFT, California division, burbank, California, u. s. a. / Look to Lockheed for Leadership !
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HUNGARY
'T'HE moral, the message and
-*■ the lesson, as seen by
London “Time and Tide,” in the
Hungarian uprising and its sup-
pression—“a bloodbath which, if
the full facts should ever
become known, is probably the
worst since the Russian
Revolution of 1917”:
The Moral
“The starry-eyed idealists who
have been building ideological
bridges between the Communist
and free worlds have been
proved to be nothing more than
misguided chasers of rainbows.
In two short, tragic weeks the
myth of a new ‘liberalised’ Com-
munism for Eastern Europe,
blessed by the Kremlin, has been
shattered.
“Consider the course of events
in Hungary. When the revolt
started, Hungary’s national
Communists demanded the
reinstatement of the more liberal
Imre Nagy. Moscow thought it
prudent and safe to grant this
wish and to offer, through Nagy,
a brand of ‘independent’ Com-
munism similar to that
introduced into Poland, But
Nagy found that the real
demand was not merely for
another kind of Communism:
an entire nation was on the
move. To his credit, he
responded and offered real free-
dom to his people. He promised
free elections and all that go
with it—including bowing to the
will of the people in such matters
as independence and even
neutrality.
“This promise of real
democracy was more than the
Kremlin could tolerate. It would
mean the beginning of the end
of the Soviet colonial empire in
Europe. What followed was a
classic double-cross. With
promises to withdraw the Red
Army and to discuss Hungary’s
future status in accordance with
the wish of the people, the
country was tricked into relaxing
its alertness. By the time it was
realised that Kremlin rule was
about to be restored with a
vengeance, it was too late; the
Red Army was in control of
every key - position in the
country.
“Nevertheless, the Hungarian
patriots .fought, often with their
bare hands, against the
barbarous onslaught. Defence-
less women and children were
mowed down in thousands, the
Danube flowed red as a people
died and a Grecian tragedy of
historical significance was played
out while one of the most brutal
rapes of all time was committed.
Let there be no more talk of the
smiling face of ‘liberalised’
Communism.
The Message
“What we have seen during
the tragic fortnight was Europe
beginning to stir again after
being frozen rigid for almost 10
years. The Soviet tanks have
restored ‘order’ and thousands of
innocent people are dead, having
been murdered with the utmost
brutality, but nothing can be
quite the same as it has been for
the past decade. Hungary has
set the pattern for the future,
although we have only seen the
first stirrings.
“This can be said with
confidence because one of the
most significant aspects of the
revolt was that it did not start
among elderly, middle - aged
people, nor even among young
people in their thirties or
twenties.
“The lead came from teen-
agers—from students who had
known no other system than
Communism. They had all
been thoroughly indoctrinated
from their early school years,
and Moscow had every reason
to believe that, as the years went
by, the satellite countries would
become peopled by ardent
Russophiles who were above
suspicion.
“A Soviet dream has there-
fore collapsed and Hungary has
brought an era to an end —an
era in which it was thought
possible to kill the spirit of man.
For the rulers of the Soviet
Union the martyrs of Hungary
will remain an omen which casts
extremely dark shadows.
The Lesson
“Never before has the futility
of reliance on the United
Nations been proved with
London “Daily Express’’
THE GUIDING HAND
greater or more tragic effect.
Mr. Gaitskell said that with the
Suez crisis the U.N. had proved
its ability to act swiftly. On the
contrary, it merely proved its
ability to pass resolutions.
“Three days before the
Russian rape of Hungary, Imre
Nagy sent a warning to the
world organisation. On behalf
of a Government responding to
the just demands of the people,
he foretold with frightening
accuracy the fate which awaited
his country. On behalf of his
people he asked for urgent
action and, if ever there was
need for action, this was it. Yet,
what happened?* Forty-eight
hours passed before the Security
Council met to consider a vague
proposal.
“The discussion was still in
progress when the most brutal
act of the second-half of this
century began. Blood was
already flowing throughout
Hungary when technicalities
were still being debated. The
corpse of a gallant people was
giving its. last twitches when
finally a decision was reached —■
a decision to make a few futile
protests.”
Russia in Egypt
Commenting on Egyptian
insistence that reports of Soviet
influence in that country have
been exaggerated, “New York
Times” writer C. L. Sulzberger
describes Communist penetra-
tion of Egypt as “immensely
greater than what Nasser
admits” and amounting to “con-
siderably more than 2000
Russian and satellite technicians,
diplomats, agents and
propagandists.”
That total includes “1000 to
1500 Soviet citizens, of whom
only 20 are diplomats and 300
‘technicians.’ Soviet atomic and
petroleum scientists are in Egypt.
During two years the U.S.S.R.’s
Embassy staff has doubled and
those of the satellites have
tripled. The most important
foreign Communist colony aside
from Moscow’s is East German.”
On' the “long tradition of
friendship between the Arab
world and Germany,” Sulz-
berger adds that, “since the
Soviet -bloc arms-deal, Nasser
has been easing-out West
Germans in favor of East
Germans, although he has not
yet bothered to establish
diplomatic relations”:
“Indeed, Dr. Johann von
Leers, an East German professor
fully approved by his own Com-
munist regime, is political
adviser to the Egyptian Govern-
ment’s information bureau. Con-
sidering the openly hostile and
mendacious tone of Cairo s
propaganda, this is an interesting
coincidence.
“Nasser,” Sulzberger concludes,
“is clearly deceiving either him-
self or us [the West] when he
states blandly, ‘The Communists
are very weak in Egypt’:
“He is certainly not yet a
satellite* or puppet. But he is
being crowded into an
uncomfortable corner.”
Middle East Oil
Assessing the effects of the
Suez blockage, Edinburgh
“Scdtsman” notes that European
consumers have come to rely on
the Middle East for their oil-
supplies to an extent of making
any long stoppage disastrous:
“Demand for oil in Western
Europe is now something over
120-million tons a year, of which
some 80 per cent, is derived from
Middle East crude and well over
half passes through the Suez
Canal.
“Transport in the United
Kingdom would be slowed down
to a crawl in a few weeks if
Middle East. supplies were cut
off, and a sizeable part of
industry would be brought to a
standstill.
“The inconvenience suffered
by the private motorist through
the loss of fuel-supplies would
be the least damage caused if the
Suez Canal were kept out of
operation, since it is estimated
that 80 per cent, of all petrol-
consumption is for commercial
and industrial transport.”
London “Financial Times,"
discounting “too desperate a
view,” recalls that “in 1951 the
loss of Abadan cut off a supply
of oil which was at that time
running at about 30-million tons
a year”:
“The net loss as a result of the
present interruption, allowing
for passage round the Cape and
the continued operation of Tap-
line, can hardly exceed a short-
fall of 50-million tons. The loss
of Abadan was the more serious
in that it removed highly impor-
tant refinery - capacity. The
present .shortfall consists only
in capacity to carry crude oil to
European refineries.
“On these estimates it would
seem that Abadan problem
was as serious relative to the size
of the oil-industry then, as the
present problem is now.
Admittedly a cut in communica-
tions requires more complicated
re-routing than does a cut in
supply, but in the longer term
a cut in supply is inevitably the
more expensive.
“As the oil problem after
Abadan was in fact overcome
with much less dislocation than
could have been expected, it is
possible that this oil-shortage


“Performance and Economy of our Bedford Fleet Outstanding!”
.. . say owners of Cochrane 9 s Transport Co., Marrickville, N.S.W.
m
■i
igU'.y.
sKi
i %!,• -A-w
'• ■:<• ■:■ ■ ■: V
mmt
mamm
ft
tern B I
&$&&•
ill
mm
- S?
> f <■
Y ,
•: . y&y'
m
■ ■
n
• • •
yet another testimony for
BRITISH
BEDFORD
Cochrane’s letter continues we decided to standardise on
Bedford Trucks . . . following very satisfactory service of the
original units”.
The many Bedford owners who write leave no doubt as to then-
satisfaction from Bedford on the job.
Whether you’re a big fleet owner or a one-truck man, you can’t
buy better than British Bedford. Compare the facts. Pound-for-
pound, feature-for-feature, you’ll be convinced Bedford is Austral-
ia’s greatest truck value.
THESE FACTS TELL YOU WHY BEDFORD LEADS:
it Three low-revving 6-cyl.
I Q.H.V. engines match power to
payload throughout the Bedford
' range.
B.H.P. development from 76
to 114.6 ; maximum torque out-
puts from 168.5 to 236 lb. ft.
ic Bedford suspensions and
chassis frames are engineered to
suit each model with generous
body space for each capacity.
★ Bedford’s big 3-seater cab has
extra driving comfort, and makes
truck handling easier.
©
10 CWT. PANEL VAN. Ask your
Dealer for details of the Bedford
X A N, priced at £BB5, plus tax.
G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase
available; ask your Dealer.
Bedford is backed by a nation-wide
service and parts organisation.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL M OTORS-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
LTD.
• PERTH
GENERAL
MOTORS
build your business on British Bedford
will also be overcome, even
though there may be a bad
month or so while the new
system of supply is being
organised. Clearly much will
depend on the American
attitude.
“The anxiety about oil-supplies
need not therefore be pushed too
far—so long, at any rate, as there
is no further interference with
the Middle Eastern supply. Yet
the cost not only in terms of
dollars but in inconvenience,
industrial disruption jand tanker
charges is bound to be a con-
siderable one. The invisible-
trade account must be badly
affected.
“There is also the more general
problem of confidence. The
whole world can see the
economic embarrassment which
the blocking of Suez causes to
Britain. Even before Suez was
blocked the pound was under
pressure, and the reserves were
falling. It is quite conceivable
that the time might come when
unlimited dollar oil-purchases
would cease to be possible to
finance. Certainly the [U.K.]
Government will have to recon-
sider its dollar trade-policy as
a matter of urgency.”
German Industry
Excerpts from a report on
Germany (in “Yorkshire Post”)
by John C. Bidgood, M.P., who
suggests that, if British manage-
ment and workers don’t “take
the lead out of their boots,” the
U.K. will have no hope of
competing in a free market in
Europe, while even established
markets outside the British Com-
monwealth will be in jeopardy:
“Western Germany and Great
Britain both enjoy full employ-
ment. We [Britain] maintain
that this is one of the reasons
why we fail to attract sufficient
labor into our Coalmines.
Western Germany has 9000
more miners working today than
she had at this time last year.
During the last months she
has produced over 21-million
tons more coal than she did in
the previous six months.
“In the last three years her
steel-production has increased
from 15-million tons a year to
tons. It.is planned
to increase steel-production to
29-million tons a year by 1960.
All this is being achieved in spite
of the vast dismantling pro-
gramme which the Allies under-
took after the war.”
“In Western Berlin I visited a
works which was established in
1837 to make locomotives. The
works was completely dis-
mantled by the Russians, and all
the plant removed. In 1950 the
factory was rebuilt and
re-equipped on money obtained
from the Americans. Today,
after six years, the company
employs 5400 personnel, which
is more than the pre-war
number, and production is above
London "Daily Mail”
THE VICTOR OF BUDAPEST
the pre-war level. This com-
pany has the largest machine-
shop in Berlin, and is almost
completely self-sufficient, pro-
ducing its own steel to the extent
of 5000 tons a month.”
“Western Berlin is an oasis in
a Russian desert. The difficulties
of transport to and from the
Western Zone are great. Yet
despite the ravages of war, the
refugee-problem and a thousand
other problems, the following
figures of production have beeii
attained:
“Taking the year 1936 as 100,
the index of industrial produc-
tion was down to 17 as recently
as 1949. Today it has reached
a figure of 110. Western Berlin
has received over 1,000,000
refugees from the East since
January, 1949, and has placed
over 300,000 in jobs in the
Western Sector since that date.
The remainder have been sent to
other points in the Western
Zone.”
“In Hamburg I attended the
launching of a Danish ship of
4800 tons at a shipyard which
was put completely out of action
during the war. This ship was
laid-down only five months ago,
and this is the normal time
taken for a vessel of that size.
The company employs 2500
workers and has a full order-
book to 1962. Touring Ham-
burg harbor and examining the
floating docks, I saw British-
registered ships undef'repair. I
was that the owners were
not prepared to have their shjps
out of commission for the length
of time taken by British
shipyards.” „
“In Cologne the picture was
the same. A company making
tractors and diesel-engines was
completely destroyed during the
war. Today this firm employs
24,000 people, and has an annual
turnover of £75 million, 40 per
cent, of which is exported. At
this plant I saw Automation at
work and, significantly enough,
it was a trade-union shop-
steward who proudly pointed
out this new machinery. A
battery of 10 machines,
machining cylinder-heads, was
operated by one man. JJntil
three months ago 10 machines,
each operated by one man,
machined a cylinder head in 45
minutes. The new battery, with
one operative, turns out one a
minute.”
TV and H.-p.
The recall of British reservists
for the Suez crisis produced
several upsets, including delays
of up to nine weeks in the pay-
ment'of dependants. While this
reflects the “wrong kind of
organisation” on the part of the
War Office, comments Edin-
burgh “Scotsman,” it also
“throws a very unflattering light
on British'"society”:
“Genuine hardship there may
have been. But for so many
people earning good wages to be
so dependent on current income
that their families could not last
a week without it is deplorable.
“The concept of saving has
been replaced by the concept of
hire-purchase. If people have
overstrained their resources, and
been caught on the wrong foot,
it seems fair to ask them what
sort of world they thought they
were living in.
“Defence of Britain and
Britain’s long-term interests is
everyone’s responsibility. The
escapist mood which turns to
the TV-set and expects the
Government to deal with trouble
is a mood that may allow vital
interests and freedom itself to
go by default. The Govern-
ment’s power at any time
depends on the resolve of the
nation.”
Various Voices
Gilbert Murray: “The real
danger was that, if the Nasser
movement had been allowed to
progress unchecked, we should
have been faced by a coalition
of all Arab, Muslim, Asiatic,
and 'anti-Western States, led
nominally by Egypt but really
by Russia; that is, a division of
the world in which the enemies
of civilisation are stronger than
its supporters.”
Mr. Dulles: “The United
States has no ulterior purpose
in desiring the independence of
the [Soviet] satellite countries.
We do not look upon these
nations as potential military
allies. We are confident that
their independence, if promptly
accorded, will contribute
immensely to stabilise peace
through all of Europe, East and
West.”
Nikolai E. Khokhlov, former
Soviet Intelligence-officer, in an ,
interview with “U.S . News and
World Report ”: “They [East
Europe uprisings] are the kinds
of crises that are to be expected
in the Communist world of
today. They are a reflection of
a gigantic process that is going
on throughout the whole Com-
munist empire—not only in
Poland and Hungary. It is a
process of enslaved people
awakening, of popular and
growing unrest, of a rising tide
of protest by human beings
against an inhuman system—
Communist. The revolt, in other
words, is against Communism.
What we see in Poland and
Hungary is part of a popular
revolution that is going on every-
where behind the Iron Curtain:
a revolution against
Communism.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIMD
Coal to Bum
The announcement that some N. S.
Wales coalminers are likely to be laid-
off because of insufficient demand for
black coal coincided with a coal-industry
advertisement stressing the risks of inter-
ruption to Australia’s oil-supplies by the
Middle East conflict.
“Coal-fired plants can depend on a
continuous supply of high-quality, reason-
ably-priced black coal to keep them
moving, and the industry has never been
better equipped to ipeet all market
requirements,” the ad. said.
True enough at the present time, but
Australian industry, especially in Vic-
toria, remembers that only recently “a
continuous supply of high-quality, reason-
ably-priced black coal” was not available.
Then, indeed, such supplies as were forth-
coming from N. S. Wales were so uncer-
tain in volume and quality that other
fuels were cheaper and essential to main-
tain continuous production.
To take one instance, Victoria would
probably never have embarked upon the
manufacture of gas from the unlimited
deposits of brown coal at Yallourn had
good-quality gas-coal been available.
The capital expenditure involved in this
project is high, and the decision was
taken only when it became clear v that
Victoria could no longer depend upon
receiving sufficient high-quality coal for
economic gas-production.
Other industries switched to oil-burning
plant, and they’re not likely to revert to
coal. From past experience, no guaran-
tees could be given that coal would be
available to them in the event of a general
shortage of fuel.
It appears that the coal-industry is
reaping the fruits *of its mistakes and
inefficiency in the past. Both manage-
ment and employees have much to answer
for, and it’s rather late in the day for the
industry to retrieve what strikes and mis-
management have accomplished.
But both labor and management in
other industries might take heed
Doynest (Vic.).
Australia and Asia
During the Suez flare-up we have heard
a good deal from those who declare: that
Australia is an Asian Power and should
march in step with the Asian countries
rather than with the U.K. or the U.S.
It is surprising that any Australian,
other than a hard-shelled Communist,
should take such a line. Australia is not
part of Asia ; geographically it is a South
Pacific continent. Its fauna and, for the
most part, its flora are not Asian. It is
inhabited almost wholly by Europeans,
overwhelmingly Christian in religion and
predominantly British in racial charac-
ter. Its people are noted for their loyalty
to the British connection and to the
Crown.
In political institutions, social character,
culture, race and religion we have prac-
tically nothing in common* with Asia —
which itself is sharply divided in these
matters. Even economically Australia
has no strong ties with any part of Asia
—most of our trade is with Britain and
will continue to ( be so for an indefinite
time.
It is as vital to Australia as to the U.K.
that the Suez Canal cannot be closed by
any Power hostile to the United Kingdom.
In an emergency Australia could not
hope for help from any Asian Power.
Those with the most goodwill are small
States, which, in the event of war, would
be in the front-line themselves.
Those who talk of keeping in step
with Asia generally mean India. India’s
Government has little sympathy with any
European people, as has been shown by
its attitude to the Russian suppression of
Hungary’s bid for freedom. — Cunedda
(N.S.W.). •
♦
Copra
Papua-New Guinea depends for a large
part of its income on the copra trade,
and an agreement with the British
Ministry, of Fo'od has been responsible
for the financial buoyancy of the industry
in recent years. This agreement has only
another year to run, and what will happen
then is problematical.
The general opinion is that, failing any
wars or other world-wide events, P.-N.G.
copra will have to compete on a world
market. With whaling in full production
and war-torn countries producing oils
again, the future does not look extremely
bright.
To improve the standard of copra and
to have uniform grading throughout the
Territory—thus providing a better argu-
ment for maintaining the price-level—a
system of inspection at receiving-centres
has been introduced and inspectors have
been appointed. This is an excellent idea,
but regular standards of grading will have
to be maintained.
Samarai, that beautiful little island on
the eastern tip of the Papuan mainland
and main port for a large and sprawling
district—which takes-in the islands as far
as Rossel, the n.-e. coast up to Buna and
portion of the south coast towards Abau
—is dependent for 90 per cent, of its in-
come on copra produced in the area. It
had been without a copra-inspector for
some time, the grading being done by the
local staff of the Copra Marketing Board.
These people had done such a good
job that, of 12 shipments to the U.K.
during the period, only two earned the
basic m.o.f. price and the others earned
a voluntary premium of up to 10s. per
ton. Quite-a large proportion of the
Samarai copra is sold in Australia, and
no complaints had been received from
buyers.
During this period rejections and down-
grading of copra submitted to the Samarai
branch had run about 2 per cent. With
the appointment of a new inspector the
rejections and downgrading were as high
as 50 per cent, for a short period and
averaged a little under 20 per cent, for
three months.
The district was more than startled,
Samarai has no storage-facilities for
rejected copra and no facilities, for
reconditioning, so it all had to be shipped
back to the plantations. This disorganised
shipping seriously.
One planter, having. had his copra
rejected in Samarai, immediately sent it
to Port Moresby, where it was accepted
at once by other inspectors. It was said
that the copra had improved sufficiently
to. become acceptable between the time of
rejection and the time of acceptance—in
this case about one week.
Another shipment (of several parcels),
after being rejected in Samarai, was sent
to Moresby. That took only two days
and the copra was minutely inspected by
several authorities and accepted at once.
No fault was found with the entire ship-
ment.
At the end of three months a new
inspector was appointed to Samarai, but
in the meantime the district (officially
known as the Milne Bay district) suffered
losses hard to compute but estimated at
over £lO,OOO. The native co-operatives
“ Attention , Martians! Earthmen are landing on our planet!
Go hide your valuables!"
were not the least of the losers. Everyone
suffered as general trade dropped in pro-
portion to the money available.
Copra inspection is very necessary,
and the future of the industry depends on
the inspectors. No one denied that some
of the rejections and down-grading were
warranted, but it was obvious that, by
normal standards, many were not.
Obviously grading varies with the indi-
vidual to some extent, and it is to be
hoped that some mechanical means, or
other * method, can be found to give the
inspectors a standard to work to. — Daika
(Papua).
Secondhand Cars
Looking for a* secondhand car in the
£SQO-£6OO range, I went the round of the
dealers until I found a 1951 model that
appeared to have everything I wanted.
It seemed in tiptop condition, but, to
satisfy myself before sticking my neck
out too far, I decided, with the reluctant
concurrence of the dealer, to send the
vehiclp to the local motoring authority
for examination.
Back came the report. On most points
the verdict y/as quite satisfactory, but
there were two disturbing features: all
tyres had been regrooved, and the car
had obviously been involved in a bad
smash —the floor-section was bent and
cracked and would quickly deteriorate,
possibly to a dangerous extent if not
attended to.
Neither of these things would have
been detected on a quick examination by
a prospective owner or an average
mechanic without the advantage of a
hoist. Purchase of the car in good faith
without any knowledge of the faults
could very soon involve the purchaser
in an additional cost of anything up to
£loo.— Deejaitch (W.A.).
Public Parks in W.A.
When James Stirling, W.A.’s first
Lieutenant-Governor, arrived with the first
settlers in the ' Parmelia, he carried
instructions from England that, before he
started parcelling-out the new colony,
he was to set aside three-square-miles of
his first city for civic and other purposes.
Later, the bulk of that three-square-miles
was alienated, but 1000 acres of it was
proclaimed a public park for the common
use of the common people.
For a long time it stayed that way, but
when a reticulation service was mooted
King’s Park, as the thousand acres was
known, was chosen as the site for the
reservoir because it was the highest point
in the city. That was all right—after all,
a reservoir can be a mighty handy thing
to have in a park. The is it
seems to have set a precedent, and'since
then any organised body wanting a slice
of cheap ground has applied for a portion
of the park. Usually they only want 50
or 100 acres —sometimes only 10 —but it’s
surprising how few 50-acre plots there are
in 1000 acres. Whenever these applica-
tions crop-up Perth citizens, to whom
“The Park” is an institution, remember
with gratitude The old Civic Fathers who
vested control of the park in Parliament
and made that body’s approval a necessary
preliminary to any land-grab.
The latest request to Parliament comes
from the Perth City Council, which wants
to establish an Olympic Pool in about the
only quiet spot left in Perth. Their sole
reason for wanting to site the pool there
is that King’s Park is the only suitable
area within the city bounds on which a
pool could be buili at a cost within the
financial means of any one civic authority.
It’s admitted that there are more suitable
sites within the city, but the cost, includ-
ing the price of land, may be greater.
There are many far more suitable sites
just outside the city limits, where the cost
may be considerably less and the pool
would be more Accessible, but the munici-
palities and road-boards controlling these
alternative sites aren’t sufficiently financial
to construct the pool themselves and
neither they nor the Perth City Council
will invest in a joint-venture outside their
own boundaries. '
This parochialism is childish. The
Perth metropolitan area can do with
several such pools—one outer suburb has
already built one —but certainly not one
for each district. If the Civic Fathers
could get together on the subject they
could easily build the necessary pools on
Suitable sites and at reasonable cost.
Apart from the “filch” that would be
involved, the King’s Park site must be
ruled out because of its inaccessibility to
anyone without his own transport—a
mile from the nearest railway, all up hill,
and not well served by buses. It would
also convert an area of natural bushland
quietude into a focal-point for temporary
gatherings from which noise and litter
would descend on the surrounding park-
lands and streets ; it would drive the bird-
life from a great part of the park and
reduce the values of surrounding proper-
ties, whose owners now combine to
extend the park into their own gardens;
and it would entail charging for entrance
to an area which is supposed to be free
to everyone.
All told, it’s one of the least suitable
sites in the metropolitan area. — Gravel-
snatcher (W. A.).
Slave-traders
For many years British warships have
done yeoman service suppressing the
slave-trade between the east coast of
Africa and Arabia.
After British supremacy was established
in Kenya, Uganda and the Sudan, the
hiain source of export was Abyssinia, but
since the granting of independence to the
Sudan there have been rumors of a revival
of slave-trading activities there.
The new wealth —from oil—of Arabian
rulers and chieftains has led to a greatly
increased demand for slaves, and profits
are so high that traders are prepared to
take greater risks than ever.
For suppressive measures to be effec-
tive, naval patrols need to be stronger
and vested with wider powers ; yet at a
recent U.N.O. conference it was decided
to refuse the British Navy the right of
search on the high seas!
Without that right it will be impossible
to curb the slave-trade. Among the
abettors of the slave-owning Arabian
States in their demand for withdrawal
of the right of search were Russia, Com-
munist China, the Sudan, Egypt and
India.— Den (N.S.W.).


Medals
“Hist.” suggests (B. 31/10./’56) that
unclaimed medals should be posted to
the “last recorded address of the men and
women concerned.”
That was done—eight years ago—with-
out expected success. Here are the facts
from official records:*
When the campaign-stars became avail-
able for distribution in 1948, many thou-
sands were forwarded to the then-
recorded last-known address of persons
entitled to them. A large percentage of
the medals were returned unclaimed. At
that time the awards were issued unin-
scribed.
The last-recorded address of a former
member of the Services is usually that
stated by him at the time of discharge.
As 10 years (in some cases longer) has
elapsed since members were discharged,
there have been many changes of
addresses not notified to Army records.
After discussions between representa-
tives of the three Services, add represen-
tations from servicemen’s organisations,
it was agreed that further issue of medals
by mail would be impracticable and
uneconomical. It was decided that per-
sonal application should henceforth be
made for the awards and that the medals
be not issued until engraved with the
applicant’s name and Army number.
This changed procedure was widely
advertised. Appropriate notices were dis-
played at post-offices and police-stations
throughout Australia. Announcements
were also made in the press, over the
radio and by extensive newspaper adver-
tising. Every few months reminders have
been published that the medals are avail-
able to ex-servicemen and -women
entitled to them. — Director of Army
Public Relations (Vic.).
To which a member of The Bulletin
staff adds: When, after War I, cobbers of
mine on the Tweed (N.S.W.) received their
service-medals by post and I didn’t, I
wrote to the medal-issuers asking why.
Terse reply was that mine had been
posted to Murwillumbah and collected
there. I’ve done without; but it’s nice to
know, from the announcements and pro-
nouncements of Directors of Army
Public Relations and the like, that they
try hard to give War II Diggers a better
deal. —C. M. (N.S.W.).
It is little wonder that 470,000 war-
medals and stars remain unclaimed, for
they have little value as a token of service.
The star used to denote a period or an
event. There was the Lord Roberts Star
for the march from Kabul to Kandahar,
with a watered ribbon something like the
1914 Star. Then came the Kimberley
Star for the siege in S. Africa.
The 1914 Star, instituted to distinguish
the men of Mons, later had a clasp
attached, because the 1915 Star, awarded ,
later, covered many fronts. The Turks
awarded a star, with crescent surmounting
it, for Gallipoli.
In World War II a star-shell burst and
it was possible to get a breastful of stars
while serving on a houseboat on the Nile,
or m some rear area not of one’s
choosing.
The British had the right idea when they
invented that general-service medal with
a ribbon running purple, green and
purple. It served for Irak, Palestine,
Malaya and other unpleasant places,
Clasps were awarded for the men facing
angry men—the staff got the medal only,
India, too, had its general-purpose
medal with clasps, and Australia could
have done the same. But the Labor
Government, with its motto of equality,
contracted for medals and stars carrying
no rank and no regiment—just a number,
Some, indeed, were handed out without
even an inscription on the rim or the
reverse. It was said* at the time the cost
was too great to award a simple medal
and clasps. What those unclaimed 70,000
gongs cost may only be conjectured.—
5 G.R. (Vic.).
Electric Trains
When they eventually start operating
electric-trains over the Blue Mountains
(N.S.W.) the equipment will be reason-
ably efficient and up-to-date. The locos.,
giving 3780 h.p. on a weight of 108 tons,
will be the most powerful built in the U.K.
and one of their features will be the
ability to outperform three big diesels on
the toughest pinch. The line-voltage of
1500 is not high, but was admirably
suited to the needs of the multiple-unit
suburban stock for which it was originally
provided.
Modern European practice shows how
far an improvement can be effected given
suitable conditions. The Swiss, for in-
stance, have many 122-ton locomotives,
light enough for our lines, with a power
of 6000 h.p., and both they and most other
countries on the Continent have long-
run machines of 4000-5000 h.p. on no
more than 80 tons.
New current-characteristics are doing
much to reduce the initial cost of electri-
fication, and here the French are pro-
bably leading the world. Their main
lines, like ours, are on 1500 volts, and it
was with this that they recently attained
200 m.p.h.—yet their new construction in
the north-east is on 25,000-volt a.c. and
Britain has decided to follow suit for its
modernisation plans.
As the size and weight of the overhead
wiring is governed by the current flowing,
the step up from 1500. to 25,000 volts
means a big cut. Similarly, the number
and spacing of substations which trans-
form the high voltage of the transmission-
lines to that suitable for traction is
governed by the latter voltage, and here a
spacing of five miles can be extended to
30 or more.
If Australians ever wake up to them-
selves we may yet see fast, spotlessly clean
trains running all over the eastern side
of the country on power derived from the
water of the Snowy River or the uranium
of Rum Jungle.— Transporticus (Singa-
pore).
Road and Rail
At the risk of having “Transporticus”
fall upon me I must poke into this road-
rail argument to comment on John S.
Dence’s revival of the chestnut about “a
trainload of 1500 tons requiring only 10
men while a similar load on trucks would
need 100 men” (B. 31/10/’56).
If you were silly enough to try to line-
up enough trucks to take all the freight
at once you would probably need a small
army, but as they would then deliver the
freight in about half the time taken by
the train they would be very smartly out
of work. Motor-transport whizzes back
and forth while the train is still huffing
and puffing and while arrangements are
still being made for loading and unload-
ing at either end. It would not need 70
or 80 trucks to handle the 1500 tons, but
only about one-tenth of that number,
Further, every pro-rail argument
assumes with ludicrous optimism that all
the rail-wagons are always nicely avail-
able for all the freight brought in. That
may actually happen somewhere, but it
never happens here. This may not invali-
purely academic side of the case,
but it certainly matters in practice, and is
one of the biggest single factors in the
decline of public support for railways.
Damaged goods (no cover in winter),
demurrage, the inexplicable disappearance
of loaded trucks for days at a time
(shunted off)—these and other annoyances
happen often enough to emphasise the
fact that the road-transport operator
foots all these bills himself and is paid
on results only. No intricate mass of
Government regulations protects him if
he falls down on his job. He delivers, or
else.
“I strongly suspect that your object is to get among the widgies.”
This stresses the second point: How
come this touching faith in the ability of
Governments anywhere to put into sound
practice the excellent theories put forward
for rail-transport? Does the record
support this faith? If they can’t be put
into actual practice what’s the use of
talking about them? Meanwhile, we’ve
got to get goods shifted. —R*. H. G.
(W.A.).
Road-safety '
Hugh King’s suggestions on driver-
education (B. 14/11 /’56) will be sup-
ported by those who know that many
road-accidents result primarily from a
lack of proper training in basic attitudes,
concepts, habits and skills necessary in
the good citizen-driver. In America
driver-education courses are accepted as
an essential part of the secondary-school
curriculum.
I doubt, however, that N.S.W. Premier
Cahill will act on Mr. King’s report.
It is at least three years since Traffic
Superintendent Lawrence (now Liberal
M.L.A. for Drummoyne) put forward
almost identical proposals and the Gov-
ernment hasn’t done a thing about them.
—Loki (N.S.W.).
The Lottery Curse
When Stalin-worship was abandoned
by his instruments and widening gaps
appeared in the Iron Curtain I suggested
in an article that these sudden changes
could be attributed only to serious
internal discontent. Even before the
fierce risings in Poland and Hungary,
Moscow had given another indication
that this must have been the case. For
the new gods of our Socialists’ loathsome
idolatry had in their desperation decided
to drug the peoples of their shaky empire
with the anti-Socialist expedient of a
Government lottery, a Government
lottery with “a million prizes.”
It is more than a betrayal of Socialism
by the. boss-Socialists of Moscow. For
a Government to tempt people to win
their fellow-citizens’ money without
rendering a service is indefensible on any
ground. Become a habit, as it does, it
brings trouble in various forms and large
quantities. Sign or harbinger, cause or
effect of trouble, the lottery habit has
accompanied it in Spain, Portugal, Italy,
France, Eire (with its declining popula-
and—yes—Queensland and New
South Wales. The cause balefully affects
industry, initiative, thrift, manners,
behavior, public opinion. It may arguably
have been a causae of the decline of Spain
and Portugal. In the days of our
Elizabethan ancestors the inhabitants of
the Iberian Peninsula were grand
peoples: wonderful navigators, explorers,
colonisers. Their downfall dates from
the time they went in for the lottery, the
“manana” spirit. .
On the other hand, , the immense
industrial (and imperial) expansion of
England dates from the abolition of
lotteries in the ’thirties of last century.
There are no lotteries in the U.S.A. or
in Canada, the two countries with the
soundest economies and the most assured
future. Australia borrows from both,
and from the International Bank, which
relies on them so much. It even borrows
from Switzerland, which has scarcely
more than the population of New South
Wales. In other days—for example, the
day of* Queensland’s Andrew Fisher, who
said he had “a horror of the Common-
wealth’s becoming a seventh borrower in
Australia” —the very idea of chewing the
Switzer’s ear would have been dismissed
as a humiliation; but apparently the
gambling craze has sapped national pride
as well as public opinion.
As to that, we have seen the A.W.U.
try to ruin Queensland’s share of our
greatest industry in defiance of an
industrial award to which it was an active
party. We have seen the politicians in
Macquarie-street, Sydney, men of all
parties, perpetuate the wickedest salary-
grab in our history, even to voting them-
selves seven months’ back plunder. And
not one public meeting of protest in
either State.— J. E. Webb (N.S.W.).
Spuds
With Western Australia well sup-
plied with spuds, the Hawke Govern-
ment rushed a No Potato Export Bill
through Parliament. Some grqwers defied
the ukase—which is surely illegal under
Section 92 —and sent a few truckloads
across the Nullarbor. Now they’re to be
“punished” by having their growers’
licences revoked, and seed-supplies
refused. — Swan River (W.A.).
The Jury
Our courts would function a lot better
without the jury-system, and more than
one legal authority has been highly critical
of its use. J. B. Brimstone, who was
chamber-magistrate at Balmain and Red-
fern for 15 years, declared recently that
he considered trial by jury outmoded and
that “it acted for the benefit of the legal
profession, and'-of the accused who are
guilty
A former legal official remarked, “If
I atn guilty, let me go before a jury, with
a persuasive barrister, briefed by smart
solicitors. But if I am not guilty, let me
go before a judge.”
Few people wish to serve on a jury.
Many of those conscripted to service are
unsuitable in temperament and mental
equipment to discharge their duties
adequately. The jury-system is seen at its
worst in civil cases. Some outrageous
decisions —particularly in third-party
motor-accident claims and workers’-com-
pensation cases—have been made by
juries obviously swayed by sympathy for
a claimant of their own social status.
Even in criminal-court cases jury conduct
has often been unsatisfactory. And in
country areas there has sometimes been
a tendency to favor a local against an out-
sider, irrespective of the merits of the
case.
Before British Constitutional govern-
ment had reached maturity, trial by jury
was a valuable safeguard against misuse
of judicial power. There is no reason
to fear that in Australia. The Australian
judiciary is impartial and independent of
control by the Executive. With adequate
right of appeal there is no likelihood of
miscarriage of justice, because a panel of
civilians with no special qualifications
don’t give the decision. A judge~-or a
bench of three in a serious case—is more
certain to achieve just and consistent
verdicts.
The mainland, rule that a jury’s decision
must be unanimous—in Tasmania a
majority verdict suffices —is an obstacle
to the more efficient working of the jury-
system. One obstinate juror can prevent
a quick decision, and, if determined
enough, may even succeed in upsetting the
course of justice.— Terry the Tory
(N.S.W.).


The growth of the
Australian Wool
industry has undoubt-
edly been due to the
hard work and enter-
prise of the Australian
grazier. But new and
unproved techniques
in sheep-raising have
also played an import-
ant part. It can be
safely asserted that the
introduction of Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
for marking and tail-
ing has been respon-
sible for preventing
many thousands of
lamb fatalities.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WCRRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
THE GOLDEN PINEAPPLE
f\NE morning, recently, as I
was working on my pine-
apple-plantation at Tully (N.Q.),
two young men, hitch-hiking to
the big hydroelectric works in
progress at Tully Falls, paused
at my gate to ask if they were
on the right road.
They were from Victoria, they
told me, and this was their first
visit to the Far North. Then
one of them said, “Those aren’t
pineapples, are they?” and, when
I assured him they were: “Well,
I’ll be hanged! I always thought
pineapples grew on trees!”
Maybe that’s not a general
notioneven so, something
about this luscious product of
tropical sun and rain may not
go amiss.
Practically all Australia’s
pineapples are, of course, grown
in Queensland, and the State has
had a big hand in their develop-
ment in other parts of the world
as well. In fact, in two cases it
has been responsible for estab-
lishing industries that are now
major rivals in the world-market
for canned-pineapple products—
Hawaii and South Africa.
From Queensland went the
pineapple-plants to start the vast
plantations in Hawaii that now
keep the United States supplied
to the tune of millions of dollars
annually ; and Queensland talent
exported itself in the person
of one of the brightest brains
in the State’s Department of
Agriculture to South Africa,
where he so revolutionised
production-methods that that
country is now Queensland’s
biggest competitor in the United
Kingdom market —thanks to
Government short-sightedness in
not paying this officer the salary
he was so obviously worth.
Many people think the pine-
apple is a species of cactus. The
plant does somewhat resemble
a cactus in appearance and
method of growth, the big golden
fruit standing on its short stem
surrounded by a wall of thick,
spiky leaves, often with viciously
serrated edges—rather like the
leaves of an aloe, though not so
fleshy.
It resembles the aloe also in
ability to store water and thus
live vigorously for long periods
in hot temperatures without rain.
Actually, however, it belongs to
the group of plants known as
epiphytes—like the orchids and
staghorns you find doing very
well for themselves on the
trunks and in the forks of trees
in the rain-forest, with no visible
means of support other than the
fibres with which they cling to
their hosts. Their nourishment is
gained directly from the
elements, through their leaves.
The pineapple has adapted
itself to an existence in the soil
and has developed a shallow
root-system; but it’s quite
astonishing how long a pine-
apple-plant will remain alive,
even producing fruit, with the
most rudimentary contact with
the soil.
Unwanted plants tossed out
onto a hard, dry headland, a
rubbish-heap, even a pile of
rocks, will still live for months
and complete the normal cycle of
growth, even if the fruit is small
and unusable.
Two main varieties are now
grown in Queensland: the Queen
(and its variant the Ripley
Queen), a rough-leaf pine; and
the smooth-leaf Cayenne. The
former has always been popular
on the fresh-fruit market for its
delicious flavor, but is unsuitable
for canning, lacking the required
“ ’StreWth, milking-time already !”
degree of acidity and sufficiency
of juice, and having a deeply-
indented skin which makes for
excessive waste in peeling.
The Cayenne smooth-leaf is
now recognised as one of the
best, probably the best all-round
pineapple. It is ideally suited
for canning and is becoming
more and more popular on the
fresh-fruit market. I think it is
destined eventually to supersede
the rough-leaf varieties
altogether.
By the way, potential pine-
apple-growers should be warned
that the term “smooth-leaf” is
only relative. Without the pro-
tection of thick leather gloves
they’ll find the Cayenne pine can
still make life very uncomfortable
for them. It is, however, a great
deal less like an angry porcupine
than its frankly rough-leaved
cousin.
There are four main types of
planting-material, of which the
top* which you discard when you
buy a pine at the fruitshop, will
give the best results, though it
takes the longest to produce a
fruit. Then there are the sucker,
a shoot that sprouts from a leaf-
axis low on the stem, the quickest
fruit-producer of them all; the
slip, which sprouts three or four
at a time just below the fruit
itself; and the butt, the original
base of the plant after you’ve
ploughed it out at the end of
the crop-cycle.
It will be seen from this that
the pineapple is a remarkably
reproductive plant. Under ideal
conditions it will multiply itself
on an average about five times
each season. One healthy plant,
under good cultural methods,
should average, on a two-crop
cycle, two pineapples and from
10 to 15 new plants ; on a three-
crop cycle, three pines and from
15 to 20 new plants.
So, after the initial cost of
setting up a plantation has been
met, each successive season gives
a superabundance of new plants
for further expansion. Before
long, of course, there are surplus
plants for sale to other growers.
The number of plants to the
acre varies .(according to the
method of planting adopted)
from 10,000 to 15,000. They are
planted in double rows, spaced
generally either 6ft. or 7ft. apart,
again depending on planting-
method favored. It is becoming
increasingly popular to plant up
to 15,000 to the acre, the rows
spaced 6ft. apart, and to leave
the plants in for only a two-crop
cycle.
This means that, in the Far
North, where the growing-rate is
rapid, the plant is in the ground
for from two to two-and-a-half
years, bearing its first fruit from
12 to 18 months after planting,
according to the type of plant
used, and its second 12 months
later, after which it is ploughed
out or otherwise dealt with,
leaving the ground fallow for the
next 12 months, except possibly
for a green crop to restore its
nitrogen content —nitrogen being
the element most important in
the pineapple’s diet. Usually, the
rows are not more than a chain
to a chain-and-a-half long, and
the whole plantation is cut up
into rectangular blocks (depend-
ing on contour of the land)
divided by access roadways for
handling the fruit.
Pineapples have been grown in
Queensland for well over 100
years, the first plants having been
introduced, probably from India,
as early as 1838. Canning, in
a small way,, was being done
before the turn of the century,
and small shipments of canned
•pines were being exported to
Britain and the Continent,
Canada, and even India, in
1892. This does not mean that
the Australian home-market was
oversupplied, for canned pine-
' apple was still at that time being
imported from Malaya. It
simply demonstrates the enter-
prise and initiative of the
pioneers in the business.
Pineapple-canning really - got
going in the 1920’5, with the
spread of soldier-settlement
plantations in South Queensland
and the erection by the Queens-
land Government of a modern
cannery in Brisbane. The present
high-speed cannery at Northgate
(home of Golden Circle products)
dates from 1940; erected and
owned and controlled by the
big growers’ co-operative, the
C.O.D.
An Australasian record is
claimed by this cannery’s
management in the put-through
of pineapples in a single day
during the peak period in March
this year, when 21,917 cases of
pineapples, approximately 626
tons of raw fruit, were processed,
filling 780,639 cans and bottles.
Statistics of Australian
canned - pineapple products
(home-market and export) for
the year 1955-56 are:
Canned Pineapple 1(244,997 cartons
Pineapple Juice .. 278,678 „
Tropical Fruit Salad 239,781 „
Fruit Cocktail .. 7,318 . „
Frozen Pineapple in
301 b. cans .. .. 10,956 units
Pineapple Juice in
7oz. bottles .. 970,086 dozen
What is the outlook for an
industry responsible for a sub-
stantial portion of Queensland’s
wealth from exports? For the
next five years, maybe, there is
nothing to worry about; but
unless high costs of production
are sharply reduced, competition
in markets in which it now
enjoys comparative immunity
,will eventually be formidable.
The signs are there.
Malaya, whose industry was
ruined by the Japs, is working
towards a recovery of its pre-
war position as a major exporter
to the U.K. There are grave
difficulties to surmount, in
particular extremely low produc-
tion per acre, but big strides are
being made, with the solid
advantage of plentiful labor at
low rates of pay.
South Africa, with taxation
laws favoring exploitation of
plantations by Big Business and,
like Malaya, inexhaustible
supplies of cheap labor, repre-
sents another threat. It has also
the advantage of short haul, and
hence lower freight-rates* to the
U.K. market. South African
producers, however, also suffer
from low production per acre.
Kenya is another potential
competitor, as also is Formosa.
If Queensland is to meet this
competition, the essential factor
in its attack on high costs is a
still further improved rate of
production per acre.
This can be achieved by
greater mechanisation, more
scientific plantation-management
and larger plantations.
Queensland is the only country
in the world producing pine-
apples solely by white labor, and
this with the smallest unit of
production an average of
roughly four acres per producer.
There is a good living in it with
average prices of from £25 to
£3O per ton on an average yield
of from 15 to 20 tons per acre.
But it can’t last.
In Hawaii, an entirely' diffemit
system of production is in opera-
tion. There, with a few minor
exceptions, the canners own the
plantations, the three or four
largest operators owning among
them 45,000 acres on the two
islands of Oahu and Lanai.
Despite a high basic wage, costs
of production are reduced to a
minimum, particularly by locat-
ing the canneries in the middle
of the plantation, thus cutting
transport charges, reducing
handling and eliminating case-
packing. Their plantation-
management is based on per-
manent scientific research of a
high order.
Fortunately for us, Hawaii,
whose main market is the U.S.A.,
is not a worry, except in Canada.
But the big-plantation system is
favored by all our other potential
competitors, and will be a major
factor in the coming battle for
markets.
One advantage Queensland
pineapples appear to have at
the moment is quality. If this
advantage can be preserved, and
costs of production brought
down, the competition can be
met; not otherwise.
Pineapples are a very pleasant
crop to handle. m In the Far
North, at least, they are prac-
tically free from serious pests
and diseases. The chief enemy is
weeds, the growth of which in
the excessively-fertile Far North
is something thq southerner
will scarcely believe, even when
he sees it. The only effective
method of dealing with them is
by the use of weedicides sprayed
on at frequent intervals. Sodium-
pentachlorphenate is the base of
the most effective one in use—
the only one so far produced
which has no deleterious effect on
the pineapple-plant itself.
It is to be hoped that the
Australian genius for inventive-
ness —typified by Frank Sutton,
of Nambour, who has patented
a machine capable of a planting-
rate of 7000 an hour —will solve
the problems that loom in this
important industry’s path, and
preserve this very pleasant way
of life to its practitioners —and
the flow of good export-income
into the State’s economy.
PETER MIDDLETON.
Fumigation for Rabbits
“Pat O’Day”: If the property-
owner outback —in, say, such
areas as the N.S.W. south-west
slopes, the Riverina and the
inner fringe of the west —thinks
he can rely on myxomatosis as
the complete cure he’s optimistic.
Practice convinces that there are
isolated rabbits that can still
stage a comeback.
Theje’s still a need for fumi-
gation at intervals: It will save
£ §. d. for the property-owner,
ensuring that the odd bunny
does not get away.
A pay-out of over £l5 per
week to the average rabbit-
trapper works out at a yearly
figure that does not compensate
the farmer-grazjer, because
where is his return? Nine cases
out of ten the kitten rabbits are
not eradicated.
For minor break-throughs
after ploughing of the warren
(they come from deep burrows
beyond the ripping and suffocat-
ing effect of the ploughing, or
from surface rabbits, including
the follow-up from the rabbit-
pack) the after-effect of fumiga-
tion covers a wide area; where
deep creek-banks and other
places escape the ploughing,
fumigation is employed with
great success.
- Carbon - monoxide, carbon-
bisulphide, Cynogas and chloro-
picrin are all used. Doctors warn
users of some of these drastic
fumigations to employ them in
small measures and well in the
open, rather than in an enclosed
area, such as in the declivity
where the burrows occur, and
where the user, in pouring the
mixture into the receptacle, is
dangerously exposed to the
fumes.
Larvacide is used extensively
on the N.S.W. south-west slopes,
and to much effect. .It can be
applied with a special applicator
which injects just the right dose
into the burrow. Care is taken
in digging the mouth of the
opening well back into solid
ground. The hole is properly
sealed after fumigating.
Tractors are playing a big
part in this fumigation method.
The most economical method
is to use carbon-monoxide fumes
from the tractor exhaust, intro-
duced into the burrow by means
of a flexible hose.
Finally, the good grazier makes
sure he has rabbitproof fencing
on his boundary complete. He
expects adjacent landholders to
also pursue a full programme of
rabbit-extermination.
Stock Selling
“Bronc”: Although the Aus-
tralian method of selling stock
by auction has many advantages
it is in many ways not as good
as sales over the hooks and over
the scales, as practised in other
countries.
Eye-estimates of quality and
weight are rarely correct, and
so, naturally, buyers are con-
servative. But scales cannot lie.
Sales over the hooks have the
added advantage that vendors
can see their own products as
the consumers see them, and can
consequently correct disabilities
such as overfatness, which J>‘
undesirable on all markets.
The Hammond - Smithfield
method of carcass appraisal has
had remarkable success in the
pig-industry, as evidenced by
carcass competitions in Victoria
and elsewhere, in, which quality


DEVELOP YOUR PROPERTY
WITH
coNCitgre
w *r.
Pv**'
Wa
' N.
m
w
• TROUGHING
• WELL LININGS
• PIPES
Humes centrifugally
spun reinforced concrete
is practically everlasting
and needs no maintenance.
Install—and forget.
m
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN:
Adanutown. Grafton. Harden, Lismore,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere. Tamworfh. hs
has improved at least 10 per cent,
in the last 10 years.
Although not as good as the
over-the-hooks method, the
U.S.A. sales by treaty at so many
cents per pound over the scales
are much more satisfactory to
the producer than our estimation-
by-eye way of buying.
Roughage
“Yambuk”: It is well known
that sheep thrive bejt on “firm”
feed and that a certain amount
of roughage is essential for
proper rumination.
The important thing, however,
is to have the right balance
between roughage and nutriment.
Many sheepowners fall into the
error of thinking that dried-off
grass is good feed. It is good
roughage all right, but it needs
something good to go with it.
Alone, it usually fills the
stomachs at the expense of
better food, and leaves the sheep
full, but not satisfied.
In such cases, sheep often
lose their resistance to worms,
which take over and eventually
suck the life out of them.
. Clover-burr, containing seed,
1S u got P I compleme ?t to
roughage. Another way of over-.
coming the trouble is to cut the
grass before it matures, and
sweep it into small stacks which
sheep can eat in “cafeteria”
style. Being cut green, the grass
retains some of its nutriments.
The only other way of avoiding
trouble is to hand-feed with
good-quality hay, grain or silage,
even though there is plenty of
dry grass in the paddock.
Footrot
“Sundowner”: This year’s
winter was a particularly bad
one for footrot, with more than
1,000,000 sheep suffering from
the disease in N.S.W. and Vic-
toria alone.
It isn’t generally known that
88 per cent, of all footrot cases
can be cured by a single applica-
tion of 10 per cent. Chloro-
mycetin solution, while a second
application will cure the rest.
Much confusion arises
through the difficulty of
diagnosis; therefore, if the
disease is suspected, veterinary
advice should be sought. A con-
dition often believed to be con-
tagious footrot is foot-abscess or
foot-scald, quite different
propositions.
The C.5.1.R.0. points out that
footrot attack is peculiar to the
horn on the feet of the sheep,
although typical lesions can be
created on the head-horn of a
ram by transferring infective
material from the feet.
Efficient paring of the affected
feet is essential. This must be
drastic —even to causing bleed-
ing of the feet. Routine use of
formalin-foot bathing has pro-
duced good results ; it must be
done weekly till a complete cure
has been effected. Usually four
or five treatments are required
for a high rate of cure.
Chloromycetin, painted on the
affected feet after careful paring,
will produce a cure-rate of 88
per cent, of cases after only one
application. A second applica-
tion, followed by close inspec-
tion and further paring to open-
up any pockets of infection
unnoticed . during the initial
operation, will produce 100-per-
cent. results.
The solution is applied with
a stiff brush directly to the feet,
making sure that it penetrates
into all pockets. Remove over-
grown horn on apparently
unaffected feet, and paint them
as a precautionary measure,
Place the sheep on a hard, dry
surface for at least an hour, then
hold them in a hospital-flock for
two weeks, followed by a further
inspection, when uncured feet
should be re-treated and the
sheep held for another two
weeks.
A medicine-dropper is a handy
means of putting the solution
on, using the brush to ensure
complete coverage. Per dropper,
600 feet may be treated with one
pint of the solution, bringing the
cost down to about 6d. per foot
—reasonable, considering the
labor involved in frequent
footbathing.
As the footrot organism will
not live in the soil for longer
than from seven to 10 days, a
paddock may be considered
clean in 10 days after affected
animals have been removed.
Among other advantages,
isn’t poisonous,
will not stain the fleece, does not
decompose in solution for two
years, and does not mask the
footrot odor,, making it relatively
easy to detect those animals not
completely cured.
Bee Pasture
“B-herd”: C. A. Hungerford,
old-time beekeeper of southern
N.S.W., is finding it difficult,
perhaps impossible, to convince
bee-herders it’s time to knock-
off tearing round the country
looking for honey-flows and
spending more than they gather.
“Grow your own,” he says,
in his booklet Beefarming With-
out Tears.
Apparently what started the
idea was his stumbling over a
hybrid tree down Rylstone way,
a cross between Melliodora and
Stewartiana. This tree yields
nedar so copiously that the
rubbish beneath the tree, during
flowering, is coated with it!
I’ve seen trees do this at
various times, but they seem
to take about a 12-year cycle to
work up to it. This,hybrid does
it every second year. “So,”
Hungerford says, “graft from
this tree, choose other trees, so
that you can have at least eight-
months’ flow in your own
paddock.”
There’s no argument against
it, either. Beemen are familiar
with the flora that fills their hives
at odd times of the year. It
seems a sensible plan to plant-
down a few acres—lo acres, he
says, is enough—and graft onto
the young tree the selected
yielders. Especially so, in view
of the fact that Nature cherishes
a graft.
Hungerford enlarges on * sub-
soil control, arid explains how
to make the graft. He explains
also, in a very satisfactory way,
how to get over the pollen
difficulty. About the only thing
he doesn’t give clear instructions
on is how to wrest 10 or 15
acres off the sheep-cockies out
in the land where the honey
flows best.
Sudan-grass
“M.”: Stockowners who fancy
Sudan-grass for summer feed
should try the new variety
known as Sweet 5.5.6 Sudan.
Seed is very similar to that
of the old kind, but the scarlet-
hued hull makes it easily
distinguishable.
The plant, a quick grower,
does not reach the same height
as the standard type, being about
4ft. tall. Stems are very succulent
and sweet; exceedingly palat-
able to all classes of stock.
Where one experimental plot,
sown half-and-half with the two
types, was grazed by cattle, the
animals so preferred the Sweet
Sudan that they ate it to the
ground before they touched the
old type.
Also very much in its favor,
the plant is not poisonous and
may be safely fed at all stages
of its growth.
Rate of seeding is the same as
with the old variety: 61b. to 81b.
in drills, or 121 b. to 151 b. broad-
cast. The latter method is
recommended where the crop is
to be used for grazing, as the
thicker growth produces fine
stems with plenty of flag. Pastur-
ing should commence when the
crop is 12in. to 15in. high.
Should fertilisers be required,
apply from lcwt. to 2cwt. of
super, and bone-dust, mixed SO-
SO, to the acre.
Melilotis
“Tambo”: Wheat tainted with
Hexham scent, due to melilotis-
seed in the sample, is going to
be the cause of many arguments
at receiving-depots this season
Melilotis (it has grown about 3ft.
high in some places as a result
of the very wet season) can be
smelt the proverbial mile away.
The scent, something like that
of newly mown hay, comes from
the drug counarin.
In bad cases wheat has the
scent even when all melilotis-
seed has been removed during
harvest; and millers won’t buy
flour thus affected.
Best ways of avoiding the taint
are to postpone the wheat-
harvest until the Weed is ripe;
separate melilotis-seed from the
wheat-grain by using a screen
in the header; and harvest at
less than 4 m.p.h. If seed is still
present, the whole of your grain
should be put through a good
grader before being taken to the
silo.
In the field, melilotis can be
controlled by cultivation or by
spraying with £lb. per acre of
the amine or ester forms of
2,4-D. Even if this spray doesn’t
kill the weed it will stunt it so
much that it won’t interfere with
harvesting.
Away from the wheatbelt,
melilotis is thought to be good
feed by some people, even though
it can taint milk and mutton.
Sheep take a while to get used
to it, but they often nibble it
when it is growing with some-
thing else, such as clover.
Cape Gooseberries
“Agricola”: There is an
expanding market for cape-
gooseberries. * They are valued
as a table dessert when used like
strawberries, and jam-factories
pay good prices for sound fruit.
The plant comes from Peru, and
is not related to the English
gooseberry.
Provided drainage is satis-
factosy, the plants \vill grow in
any type of soil, but they prefer
sandy-loams. Soil should be well
cultivated, to destroy weed-
growth.
Seed-germination is slow and
rather erratic, so keep the beds
moist and protected from the
hot sun.
Select only strong, healthy
seedlings and space at sft.
intervals in rows 7ft. apart. Keep
the rows straight and evenly
spaced so that the ground can be
cultivated. The crop should be
planted in late summer where
there are no frosts ; if frosts are
heavy, planting should com-
mence in the spring. Although
gooseberries are classed as
perennials, frosts will cut them
back to ground-level. Annual
plantings are advised even in
frost-free areas.
The bush is surface-rooting,
the fine roots running in every
direction. Cultivation should be
shallow—just enough to control
weed-growth. A topdressing
with sulphate-of-ammonia when
the plants are half-grown will
increase the yield and quality of
the fruit.
Gooseberries are subject to
attack from red-spider and the
corn-ear worm.
E 605 will check red«-spidei
and to a certain extent the corn-
ear worm also. If the latter only
is the trouble, use D.D.T. as a
dust or spray.
The berries are ready to pick
about three months after
planting-out. They are ripe
when the husk changes from
green to pale-brown and the
fruit falls when the bush is
shaken. Don’t pick the berries
from the bush. Shake the plants
and the ripe husks can be
gathered from the ground. This
will prevent damage to the bush,
and only ripe fruit will be
harvested.
Don’t collect damp husks;
wait till the sun has dried the
dew. After harvesting, spread
them out to dry for a day or
two, then carefully remove the
husks so as not to damage the
fruit.
The berries may be marketed
in two ways: Pack them in
21b. boxes or cartons if for the
fresh-fruit market; half-bushel
cases are ideal for consignments
to jam-factories.
Seasonal conditions will vary
yields, but an average crop will
pick 25001 b. of fruit to the acre.
Skeleton Spread
“Hopevale”: The spread of
skeleton—a product of imported
fodder during the 1914 drotight
—over the last 10 years has been
a bit of a mystery.
Some say it went south-east
from Wagga (N.S.W.) on the
wings of aeroplanes during the
war.
Another belief is that there
have always been a few plants of
it around the country, but
rabbits kept them from seeding
and spreading until myxomatosis
almost eradicated the bunnies
and allowed the weed to spread.
Wheat-crops that have even a
suspicion of skeleton-weed
should not be sold for seed. The
best place for their grain is the
silo.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(18/11/'56)
General rains should occur in Queensland during
December, heaviest on the coast (north and part of the
south) and on the Peninsula. Heavy rains and flooding are
likely on the coast during January; patchy in the' western
division until March.
N.S.W. should have general rains, above average,
during December, with very heavy falls likely on the coast
(central and south) and on the tablelands. Good follow-on
rains are likely on coast and tablelands during January, but
patchy elsewhere in the State.
Light to moderate rains, below normal, are likely in
Victoria during December. However, general rains should
occur throughout the State during January.
, Most of S.A. should have general rains during
December, and heavy falls may occur in the interior and in
Centra] Australia.
In W.A., poor rainfall likely in December, apart
from good falls in the Fortescue, De Grey and Kimberleys
regions.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please find enclosed my pheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas,
T 0:... • •••• •••
Address
FROM:..
Address..
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
(NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas , unless a definite date is reQuestedf)
12 months £2/8/-; 6 months £l/4/6; 3 months 12/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription is
paid direct to “The Bulletin ” or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 1 oreign £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
of it, spread it on the floor and
laid the stiff Alsatian on it.
To defeat nausea, I sent my
mind elsewhere. Ah yes! That
hot-dog ...
ABOVE Frugal the tiers of
bunks were crowded with
fascinated prisoners sitting up
like an audience of ghouls at a
medieval anatomy-lecture.
Frugal produced a long
leather line made of knotted
bootlaces. He tied one end to
the wire ring about Annina’s
neck, lowered her over the
windowsill and paid out yards
of line after her while she
skated about at random, leaving
large loops of line behind her
on the compound. In search of
warmth perhaps she crept out.
near the barbed-wire apron
where the floodlights almost
dissolved her.
At last, Frugal twittered and
Annina came back like a rocket.
Over the last few yards, however,
she struggled against the friction
of a which had caught
around one of the pegs support-
ing the trip-wire some ten-feet
inside the barbed-wire apron.
Frugal hooked Annina inside
with the broom, cut her free and,
when she stood begging in a
corner of her cage, gave her a
kind look.
While the multitude of eyes
glowed like hot charcoals in the
shadowy grandstand of bunks,
Frugal lashed a slouch-hat to the
head of the Alsatian. He
buttoned a tunic tight around
the dog and attached a pair of
trousers to drag behind. He
tied one end of the leather line
to the Alsatian’s collar, lowered
the 'Alsatian to the sheet-ice
beyond the windowsill and
pulled evenly on the other end
of the line, which stretched out
around the trip-wire peg just
inside the barbed-wire.
Obedient to the urging of its
collar, that regimental Alsatian
glided out over the ice as softly
as a snow-sled. From a height
it was the silhouette of a man
doing a bellycrawl.
The machine-gun was nodding
on its tripod as the guard patted
it in time with his humming.
With the thong twisted round
his knuckles, Frugal pulled
steadily. The shape was less than
a handshake off the trip-wire
when the guard stopped hum-
ming.
“It must be clearly under-
stood,” I said to Frugal, “that
1 am not involved.”
When the guard shouted, some
of the prisoners got back into
their bunks. From under the
blankets I could see the muzzle
of the machine-gun waving down
at the sliding shape.
Frugal hesitated; the line
snapped, and the guard shouted
again rather shakily.
The machine-gun’s first , burst
rattled like an express-train
crossing the points. Serpent-
tongues of bright expanding
gases flickered out the mouth of
the gun. Chips of ice hailed
through the barbed-wire or
hammered our hut. The shape
trembled, the tunic became old
and tattered and a little steam
arose as the Alsatian was nailed
to the ice. The guard fired again
but he needn’t have bothered.
PUTTING on his slashed
greatcoat, Frugal opened
the door of our hut. Raising his
arms above his head he shouted
“Permission!” in the guard’s
language. The guard made a
sound like weeping, and Frugal
stepped over the threshold on to
the compound.
Frugal was kneeling by the
sfiape and lamenting in a foreign
language at the top of his voice
when the rest of us prisoners
crowded out of the hut and
packed tightly around him.
The two guards from the
heavy barricade at the com-
pound’s entrance came running
at us, yelling.
We retreated back to the hut
in a close group carrying the
Alsatian upright among us.
We left Frugal face-down out
there with the tattered back of
his greatcoat glittering under the
floodlights,
The two guards stopped
running and yelling. They took
off their helmets and crossed
themselves. The big one vomited
a httle and the small one took
o ff his alpine cape and covered-
up the body. They fetched a
length of duckboard and gently
lifted the body on to it. They
scraped together pieces of Alsa-
tian’s viscera and packed them
j n w ith. Frugal.’ They carried
t he loaded duckboard out
through the barricade and on
pas t the last ray from the
floodlights,
Among the prisoners in the
hut the Alsatian didn’t go far.
Gr jfl ed d _[ a blower it worked
out ab out seven sinews apiece,
ln honor 0 f Frugal next day
t he bread-ration was reduced and
j ust after curfew an armored
sect j on d f the Canadian army
drove through our compound
and re i eased us a fl.
yQU ever meet Frugal you
1 might recog nise him by his
{ ratty nose and his twitter-
• squeak . And you might let
me know his whereabouts. I’d
g j ve two loaves of bread to know
wha{ happened a f te r he got out
past the floodlights.
is any skill required to work the
machine, but it looks such a.
complicated process I shouldn’t
wonder if the operator holds a
boilermaker’s certificate. It
certainly calls for more brawn
than a female milk-bar attendant
could muster.
After you have drunk your
coffee, don’t think you can hand
back your cup and get a refill
gratis. It will cost you Is. 6d.
per not-very-big cup. If you like
coffee, and have the time to
spare, it will cost you plenty to
sit admiring the murals.
Some Melbourne people have
the idea that “espresso” will fade
away like the earlier fads. If
they are right, a lot of fingers are
going, to get badly burned.
Espresso-lounges have mush-
roomed all over the choicest parts
,of the city’s Golden Mile. And,
while the cost of the site might
be redeemable, the futuristic
fittings would not serve many
other purposes. I understand,
too, that an espresso-machine
can cost as much as twelve-
hundred pounds.
Personally I think the
prophets are wrong. People have
been drinking coffee for a long
time, but they have never had a
chance to drink better coffee than
this. Maybe competition will
force the price down. I hope
so; I’d like to be able to eat
and drink.
The Expert
THE spring sunlight had no
real warmth in it, but at
least it gave the illusion
of heat as it shone golden
and sparkling on the tall grass
beside the road, still wet from an
overnight shower.
The bitumen road lay like a
licorice-strap through the yellow
grass, eventually losing itself in
gentle undulations. On either
side of the road well-kept rabbit-
netting fences defined the
boundaries of grazing properties,
and the cattle standing belly-high
in grass were too contented to
notice a passing car.
The driver of the big utility
kept his dark eyes fixed on the
road ahead.
The man in the passenger-seat
rolled a cigarette in silence. After
he had carefully tamped both
ends with a match he said,
without looking up, “Want one?”
“Nah.”
The other man, thickset, brown
and cheerful, settled back to
enjoy his smoke. At forty-five
Bill Mackie was the best tractor-
safesman in the North-West and
he owned the largest and most
comprehensive machinery-
agency and -workshop north of
Newcastle.
The driver continued his
apparently angry silence and
Mackie, who was only too well
aware what ailed his best
mechanic, was pleased to notice
that his mood did not affect his
driving.
For five chequered years these
two had worked together. From
an unsure boy of sixteen had
grown this tall, dark, Indian-
faced man of twenty-one, Geoff
Randall. For no one else,
certainly for no other employee,
would Mackie have held his
peace.
AS he smoked, Mackie watched
the grim face beside him
and after a while he said, his
manner carefully off-hand, “You
don’t want to let Thompson
worry you. He doesn’t mean any
harm and he’s not a bad poor
brute”
“Aaah,” said Geoff, “it’s
enough to make you choke.
Look, I tell you, Bill, keep that
drongo away from me today, or
so help me, I’ll kill ’im.”
“O.K I will. But what did
happen yesterday?”
“Well, I arrive to do" his
service and find he’s been mess-
, ing about : with the pump. It’s
in back-to-front, v and when I
work out what the hell’s wrong
with it he’s breathin’ down my
neck like a cow. I asked why
he’d touched it and, lookin’ me
straight in the eye, he says, ‘Oh,
but you’re mistaken, it’s just as
it was when you delivered it!”
The change in his deep voice
from righteous irritation to a
mincing, pecking falsetto was so
ludicrous, Mackie burst out
laughing.
“Break it up,” hp said, still
chuckling. “I know he’s a
damn’ fool but he’s not as bad as
that.”
“No?”
Mackie gave another snort of
laughter. “Go on. What
happened next?”
“Nothin’. I just looked at
him.”
“Well, according to Thompson
you called him a bloody liar.”
“Yes, thafrs right. the
hell did he expect? And I also
told him to get out of my hair
or I’d drop ’im.”
“Keep your shirt on today and
I’ll see he leaves you alone. He
loses his ninety days’ service,
anyway. Let’s hope it teaches
him a lesson and stops him
mucking about with his tractors.”
Geoff slowed the utility and,
turning off the bitumen, bumped
gently over a ramp and along a
well-used red-sop road. After
about a mile they came to the
homestead, neat and white, with
gardens and shady pepper-trees
around the sheds and barns. The
big diesel tractor stood outside
the machinery-shed and Geoff
took the utility alongside. He
jumped out and got to work on
the tractor.
THE approaching beat of
hooves made Mackie look
up from the step of the utility
where he was sitting.
Along the road and past the
house came a man on a tall
chestnut, a red sheep-dog loping
at the horse’s heels. He dis-
mounted and said, “Good-morn-
ing, Bill. Very glad to see you
here. Hope you can- straighten
out my bit of trouble with the
diesel.”
His voice was not as obnoxious
as Geoff had made it; it was a
product of one of the Great
Public Schools.
Mackie shook hands, smiling.
“I don’t think you’ll have any- 1
thing to worry about, Mr.
Thompson. But I’m afraid she’ll
be out of commission for a week
or two. We’ll have to send the
pump to Sydney. We don’t touch
them up here, and seeing you
had a go at her yourself while
she was under warranty, it’s
going to cost you a few quid.”
Thompson’s face hardened.
“I told your man yesterday I
didn’t touch the pump. I don’t
see why I should have to bear
the cost if your ipechanic isn’t
competent to take the pump off’
a diesel.”
Without waiting for an
answer he walked over to the
tractor and, standing behind
Geoff, peered over his shoulder.
He said, as one guiding a back-
ward child, “Do you know what
you’re about there? You messed
it up yesterday, you know.”
He lifted his head and looked
at Mackie, standing rooted to
the ground.
“Don’t you think you’d better
oversee the work this . . . boy
is doing?”
SLOWLY Geoff straightened,
his face dark and still. Still
slowly, he raised his right hand,
oil- and grease-covered, planted
it squarely on Thompson’s mes-
merised face, and gave a quick
shove. As the man started to
overbalance a grease-blackened
Blucher-boot shot out and,
slipping between his legs, com-
pleted the fall.
Before Thompson could speak,
Mackie said, his voice unruffled,
“I’m sorry this happened, Mr.
Thompson, but you asked for
it. I’ll get in touch with you
later about the tractor.”
He turned and got into the
utility as the engine roared. They
were nearly back in town again
before either spoke.
Then Geoff said, his voice
studiedly unapologetic, “I
didn’t mind the cow ridin’ me
about my work, but who the hell
does he think he’s callin’
boy ?”
By L. M. BAYLY
THE PRISON
I built a house of silence,
My stormy heart to hide,
And day and night a peacock
guard
Was ever at my side.
1 whispered to the peacock,
“All vows men make are lies.”
The peacock only looked at me
With burning anguished eyes.
In that grey house of silence
No blessings came to me;
No songs, no words of comfort,
Time stretched an empty sea.
And when there came temptation
From those cold walls to run,
The shadow of the peacock
Was between me and the sun.
One day as I was leaning
From the window of my room,
I saw, around the crescent creek,
The warm spring flowers in
bloom.
I said, “The sun's gold tear-
drops
Shine on the wattle-tree.”
The peacock turned his head
away
And would not look at me.
Then I, in utter loneliness,
Sank weeping to the floor;
My peacock, Pride, was van-
quished
And you came within my door.
MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH.


THE GIFT BOOK OF THE YEAR
A Century of Punch
Ed. R. E. Williams
The book with the hilarious preface and
1,000 best humorous drawings from Punch.
At all booksellers - 37/3
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
BLACK COCKATOOS MEAN SNOW
by ELYNE MITCHELL
This pastoral novel, set in an Australian sheep-farming valley, surrounded
by wild mountains among whose high solitudes men may find wisdom and
peace, unfolds the lives of highly individual people who have become part
of the land they love. It traces the heartbreak of an impossible marriage,
the doubts of a reluctant bachelor, and conveys the satisfaction and genuine
romance of family life.
* Retail Price in Australia, 15/6 (postage extra)
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
HODDER & STOUGHTON LIMITED
THE SILVER CITY
....By lON L. IDRIESS
Here is the amazing story of Broken Hill and its development, told by a writer
who watched it grow. Vividly he depicts the great silver strikes, with all their
excitement and tragedy. He gives, too, fascinating tales of the discoveries of
copper and of opals—the gems at first refused by London merchants who thought
them too brilliant to be real!
Pictures of life and traffic on the great Darling and Murray rivers, scenes of
Idriess’ childhood on the rich North Coast of N.S.W. and entertaining reminiscences
of journeys with his father add further charm to an eminently readable book.
This is “The Silver City”—an astonishing story of Australia’s industrial, regional
and national growth, with all it meant in human struggle and achievement.
Illustrated. «/- (Post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
For your reading enjoyment available from all Booksellers
THE SPONGE
DIVERS
George Johnston
Charmian Clift
“A story of passion and adventure
set on a small /Egean island.”
SUMMERHILLS
D. E. Stevenson
“A fine and absorbing novel of real
people with real problems, full of
warmth and human interest.”
n
much money) with a baby in a basket
in the hotel gardens:—
One of the noted beauties paid me
the compliment of disparagement by
remarking to Maxine [Elliott] it was
a pity tennis-players married such
dull women. “I don’t suppose she
knows how to eat properly,” she
added—“being Australian”—and not
bothering to lower her voice:
“Dreadful clothes ; no manners.”
Suzanne Lenglen took her shopping
and showed her how to dress fashion
ably at reasonable prices, but the
society-women pushed her gently into
comers and tried to take her Norman
In this situation she enjoyed Mr
Brookes’s support:—
Once I sat and listened to Maxine
and another rather faded beauty
discuss the impossibility of any figure
in the public eye remaining faithful.
The fact that Norman was there did
not deter them. They turned to him
for confirmation and, rather sur-
prised, received a Calvinistic blast
on the ethics of matrimony.
In fact, the perfumes of the Aus-
tralian great-ladies of her times had
always something of the scent of bush-
fire in them and also of disinfectant:
for the bushfires, there is later on in
the book an account of Sir Thomas
Blarney’s soldierly retreat before a
bushfire on its way to destroy some
cottages near a Victorian golfcourse;
and, for the disinfectant, the 1914 war
found the baby in the basket sleeping
on the terrace of Shepheard’s Hotel,
Cairo, while her mother was out
furthering Norman Brookes’s efforts as
Red Cross Commissioner for the
Middle East. She is to be found saving
the poisoned arm of a cousin shot at
Suvla Bay from a doctor who wanted
to cut it off, watching a lad die of
typhoid whose family had asked her
to look him up, observing Australian
privates dining with champagne at
Shepheard’s while a queue of hungry
officers waited.
There is a fine picture of “Banjo”
Paterson coming in to tea at Meaadi,
dusty from droving 200 mules: “lanky,
his eyes, ringed with the pale arcus
senilus found sometimes in those who
suffer the glare of hot countries, were
mild and lazy-lidded; he moved
awkwardly and had a swift, biting
sense of humor.” With his six helpers,
he had driven the mules through a
Moslem cemetery on his way: “They
trod over the mounds a bit, but jumped
most. One mule went down a flight
of steps; we left him. We knocked
over a few headstones, but I think it
was a bit too early for anyone to spot
us.”
After Gallipoli Dame Mabel returned
to Melbourne; later her husband’s boat
was mined, and he arrived in Bombay
in a lifeboat, and went on to Baghdad.
He was later invalided-out to Calcutta,
and there she joined him, and met
rajahs and was introduced to Rabin-
dranath Tagore by Lord Ronald-
shay....
Between wars her main achievement
seems to have been the raising of the
Queen Victoria Hospital (for women,
staffed by women): “Twelve hundred
babies are born there every year —and
only the boiler-man about the place,”
as a speaker remarked at a meeting
for funds—while Sir Norman built-up
the paper-mills (in which his father had
invested £20,000) to some awe-
inspiring, unmentioned greatness and
presided as martinet over the rise of
Australian tennis to the huge gates of
the Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide
Cup-matches.
They seem to have spent a lot of
time at Cliff House, a little, old white-
anted, low place on the cliff above
Davey’s Bay, which they decided to
leave practically as it was, except for
more bathrooms, bedrooms, a servants’
cottage, a gardener’s cottage, a larger
living-room, a top-story, and three
rooms and a sundeck on the cliff . . .
There they have entertained everyone
from the Jellicoes to Larry Adler (who
gave them one of the mouthorgans he
throws away after every performance).
It was at their other little place,
Kurneh, though, when Richard Tauber
was playing and singing at the piano,
that Dame Mabel shut the dividing-
doors so that she and his wife, Diana
Napier, could hear themselves talk—
surely one of the pinnacles of greatness;
but only one. She sent Billy Hughes
(whose tragic child, Helen, treasured a
Christmas-tree from a Cliff House
party) to mingle with the politicians at
Canberra with her lipstick on his
withered cheek. She asked Ben Chifley
(though this was a trifle worthy of
Maxine Elliott’s friends): “When you
were very young, did you have some-
body that you loved hurt by a bank?”
and he said: “My grandfather —he was
ruined and all his savings went; it was
a bank that ruined him.” And she
must be one of the few who have dared,
even in type, to interrupt a set-piece
oration by her adored R. G. Menzies.
It was the little speech the Prime
Minister made on the retirement of
Sir Norman from the presidency*of the
Lawn Tennis Association, a master-
piece which she does well to give in
full. Mr. Menzies is saying,
J. M. Barrie, in one of the great
speeches of the twentieth century,
said a simple, whimsical “Barrie”
thing: “God gave us memory so
that we might have roses in
December.”
Dame Mabel adds, in parentheses:
(He was talking, of course, at
St. Andrews in Scotland, and so his
December was the Scots December.)
But these, perhaps, are specialised
visions of grandeur; others may prefer
Cynthia’s wedding in 1933 to the Lord
Mayor of Melbourne, Sir Harold
Gengoult Smith, with 1500 people at
St. Paul’s Cathedral and all the rest
of Melbourne in the streets outside the
Town Hall where the wedding-
reception was held; or Newport, U.S.,
in the season, or a house-party at
Blenheim, or MacArthur at Menzies’
(Elaine was headquarters-receptionist
for General MacArthur when they
moved to Brisbane); or filling shells
and bombs with explosives; or Govern-
ment House at Hong Kong: —
The pattern of living is identical
with that of every British Govern-
ment House all over the world . . .
Sir Norman contributes chapters on
tennis; he naturally considers that the
old and bold were just a bit bolder
than the willing lads of today, and in
this order: Tilden, R. F. Doherty,
H. L. Doherty, A. F. Wilding, William
Johnston, Fred Perry, Lacoste, Donald
Budge, J. Kramer and Jack Crawford;
and also grades the women: Suzanne
Lenglen, Helen Wills, May Sutton,
Dorothy Lambert Chambers, Alice
Marble, Dorothy Round, Maureen
Connolly, Louise Brough, Doris Hart,
Nancye Bolton. On the amateur-
professional front, he favors the
establishment of a tennis open-
championship.
Even for a 318-page book it is indeed
a crowded gallery—one has left out,
for instance, how Dame Mabel has
had her hair tweaked by a spirit in a
room next to Mary Queen of Scots’
old lodgings; and how a transparent
woman has dismayed visitors to Cliff
House; to say nothing of how she
(Dame Mabel; not the transparent
woman) stood for Victoria’s Parlia-
ment in the Hollway interest during
the struggle which split Victoria’s
Liberals;—
Men who had been groomsmen at
Cynthia’s wedding canvassed at the
polling-booths against me One
friend announced that f had lost my
deposit at one election and would
lose it again ; which was, to say the
least, unkind as well as untrue.
However, it was all she could think
to say. A social aspirant weighed
the advantages of my personal
friendship as against Liberal-party
patronage and wrote me an uncalled-
for letter . . .
With color-reproduction of portraits
by Dargie and 65 other illustrations;
quite a book—and quite a life.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 410
Across
I—Where1 —Where Buddhist priests may live
to beat a string of connected
matters. (10)
6—Dollar brumby’s behavior? (4)
10— Hurting bite of a burrower. (9)
11— Tree seen by an acclaimed
violinist. (5)
12— Relieve the book-end equipment
of a painter. (5)
13— Jump with a dome. (7)
14— High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
15— The concupiscence of Sarah is
quite enough for this Roman
historian, a contemporary of
Julius Caesar. (7)
17—Hamlet might be expected to
come from this pen. (3)
21 — The French moved a bird. (3)
22 — Prepare to fight a figure in the
air. (5, 2)
23 Sit back for a declaration as to
its existence. (3)
27 Spell of a witch unable to tear
a tin excursion. (7)
28 — I wander back with a New
Zealander. (5)
29 Notice excluding the cuckoo
wanderer. (5)
30 — The former Edward crumbled.
(9)
31 — Change says it’s a town in
N.S.W. (4)
32 —Pig makes a footballer less con-
ditioned for football. (10)
Down
1 — The gait of the crippled Roman
and a clinger. (6)
2 Irish boys, one of them a name-
sake of novelist Franklin and the
other a namesake of cricketer
Craig. (8)
3 Fibre produced by Sister Albert.
(5)
4 Put your savings back into check
apparel. (8)
5 East horse goes to the big
November horse-race for table-
ware. (3-3)
7 Man due to change the condition
of his bed as he gets out of it.
(6)
8— Cattle twitches the study of
motion-producing forces. (8)
9 Where the bellringer wants to
leave the bus top of the
adjoining. (4, 4)
16 —Lone dame affected by drink. (8)
18— Crooks find it hard to get rid of
this, perhaps because of the
sweating coppers involved in it.
(3> 5)
19 — a’ transformation of much pink
squirrelkin is evident. (8)
20 — Dictator allows a car to run over
an alderman at a keynote com-
pany upset by a rat. (8)
24—Rascals establish a military
establishment in a steamer. (6)
25 — Felony seen on a European
battleground. (6)
26 — The German is after the metal
spark-producer. (6)
28—I made changes for various
channels of publicity and such-
like. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 409


MARS CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
SPLIT CASING —RUBBER LINED
■
<£>'
I
The Mars 6/4 “DrywelP’-Gravity/Suction Pump.
Easily Maintained
Heavy Duty
A Design For Every Use
Interchangeable Accuracy -
Highly Efficient
Gravity/Suction Gland Types
Idea! for: Mining Solids & Solutions ®
Sand • Mud • Solids ® Acid
AVAILABLE NOW
inquiries invited Front Overseas Importers
M
Immediate Delivery
A Guaranteed Product
Slow Running
A Dependable Engine
Easy Starting
The Most Attractively Priced
Water Cooled Diesel in Australia
Maintained By Factory Fitted Replacements For Parts
v I mi
m: i
SOB3B i
mm a
SipM
5H
■
: .
ss
B'sP»w
.
§ /Jft |fH
The Mars 8 H.P. Diesel.
n
Wm
Si
m*
m
©
©
s
E
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES FOR DIESEL ENGINES
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. Vic.: Herbert
Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. N.S.W. and Queensland: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty.
Ltd., Brisbane. Tas.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins Street, Hobart. India, Bombay Province: R. S. Mehta & Co., Ali
Chambers, Fort Bombay. Philippines: The Earnshaw Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
Write Direct, or through your Local Distributor, to:
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advert.
