

'mm.
.% • -
~0.. “m.* m. ... ,• t 3 % - ... .„. • :
/
-w
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
“AT THE GALAHAD” : A BRILLIANT STORY
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4001
Wednesday, October 17, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
No. 320: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
QUEBEC HOUSE, APTLY NAMED BURTHPLACE OF JAMES WOLFE
AT Westerham, near the summit of the North Downs in Kent, is Quebec
House, the home of Westerham’s soldier hero, General James Wolfe, the
victor of Quebec in 1759. The gabled red-brick house is of 16th-century origin
and when owned by Wolfe's parents was known as Spiers. It is now an
historical and architectural monument containing many relics of the great
general, owned by the National Trust, and is open to the public at certain
times.
James Wolfe, the son of Colonel Wolfe, was born in 1727 at Westerham
and joined the army at the age of 14. By the age of 33 he had made himself
a master of military science. Not attractive in personal appearance—very tall,
slight, almost ungainly, with thin red hair and a- receding chin—yet he was
trusted implicitly by his men because of his capacity as a soldier. He was
chosen by Pitt, the Secretary of State, to command Britain s forces under
Amherst in North America against the French. In 1758 he captured Louisberg,
and the following year he was promoted Major-General. He was given
command of the expedition of 9000 soldiers against the French at Quebec in
1759. The first assault failed, but later, by distracting the attention of the
French by surprise attacks in other quarters, General Wolfe s troops scaled
the cliffs to the Plains of Abraham where the decisive battle against Montcalm s
French forces took place. The engagement was short and decisive, but at the
moment of victory Wolfe was killed. The following year Montreal capitulated
and the French empire in Canada ceased to exist.
Today a statue of Wolfe stands in Westerham, a bed of geraniums does
him homage and he is commemorated by a tablet over the south door of
Westerham's Early English church.


WIN SUCCESS
AS A WRITER!
There is always a demand for Well-Written
Short Stories, Articles, Written Sketches,
Radio Talks, Pars., etc.
STOTT’S will provide you with interest-
ing, Practical, Home-Study Instruction of
the highest quality, under the guidance of
thoroughly experienced Instructors.
Mrs. J. Penna earned £7O for Short
Stories whilst still engaged on her Course.
Another Student earned over £2OO for
Acceptance during six months.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
Mail the Coupon today.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagli
St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane: 21
Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
BOOIvHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Re d Page
WHITMAN AND O'DOWD
Immediately before his death Walt
Whitman insisted he must write a fare-
well note to his many correspondents
all over the globe. In a very shaky
hand he took his pen:—
February 6, 1892. Well I must
send you all dear fellows a word
from my own hand—propp’d up in
bed deadly weak yet but the spark
seems to glimmer yet —
The next day he managed an
additional note: —
More and more it comes to the
fore that the only theory worthy
our modern times to great literature
politics and sociology must combine
all the..... .people of all lands, and
not forgetting the women —But the
mustard plaster on my side is sting-
ing and I must stop—Goodbye to
all.—W.W.
One copy of this letter was duly
delivered in Melbourne, addressed
to the thin, red-haired assistant-
librarian at the Supreme Court,
Bernard O’Dowd.
In the years before 1890 O’Dowd
spent much of his time wandering the
still-scattered suburbs of Melbourne.
A favorite spot for picnics with the
Fryer family, with whom he boarded,
was down near Sandringham. Bernard
helped the girls scramble up and down
the cliffs gathering wildflowers or
marched four or five miles along the
beach with Mr. Fryer discussing
Fteethought theories and sea-
anemones. This the young man termed
indulging in “outdoor things.” He
was deeply immersed in Whitman’s
poetry and saw himself as “one of the
roughs, large, proud, affectionate . . .”
In 1889 Bernard started what was
at first called an Ethical Class at the
Fryer home. Afterwards this developed
into a “Literary Symposium,” where
O’Dowd read Whitman. Robert Croll
was a member.
The Whitman poem that O’Dowd
read and read again was “Song of the
Open Road” —it chimed so exactly
with his own feeling; for the first time
for several years he knew the lifting
of the burden of black pessimism that
had weighed him down: —
Afoot and light-hearted, I take to
the open road,
Healthy, free, the world before me,
The long brown path before me,
leading wherever I choose.
Henceforth I ask not good fortune—
I myself am good fortune;
Henceforth I whimper no more,
postpone no more, need nothing,
Strong and content, I travel the open
road.
Bernard was not content to read such
words, he wanted the reality. All his
spare days and weekends he spent
tramping the roads, enjoying “the
serene and beautiful scenery.” The
longest journey undertaken was a
walking-tour of the Lilydale-Healesville
district during April.
Two whole days of freedom! Leav-
ing the 6.10 train at Lilydale he
trudged off towards Launching Place,
through Seville and on to Woori
Yallock. After lunch he made for
Healesville by way of the Upper Dam
Road; he luxuriated in the “noble
scenery.”
The next morning Bernard decided
to make a trip to the Falls, but lost his
way. The guide-book he believed to
be “misleading, and wilfully so.” He
finished the journey in Forster’s trap.
Walt was having what O’Dowd
termed a “grand success” at the literary
evenings. The Group read through
the book to “The City of the Dead
House” and “Children of Adam.” In
his private reading of Whitman,
O’Dowd confessed he found the latter
“startling,” and added, “cannot say I
have grasped them yet; don’t think it
can be read by everyone.” O’Dowd
decided the poem was meant to be a
song of procreation; “not one of lust
but of the creation of great indi-
viduals.” He compared the correct
approach to the poem with,that of an
“anatomist to a naked woman.”
When O’Dowd and his bride had
settled down to married life at the
Fryer home in Carlton the literary
group, a little contracted in member-
ship, met there. The study meeting
now had a name of its own,
Australeum, a combination of Austral
and Lyceum. Besides the Fryer family
there were Fred Woods, Jim Hartigan,
John Sutherland and other irregular
visitors at the discussions.
“There’s a fine group of friends in
Melbourne,” Whitman told two
visitors. “One of them, Bernard
O’Dowd, writes to me and gives me
quite interesting offhand pictures of
Australian life, sheepwalks. grazing,
etc. They have a bellbird there, as
they call it, with a note like the striking
of a bell, and with an undertone of
something weird and plaintive. Barney
has travelled a great deal, and is quite
a ‘Leaves of Grass’ fellow.”
Whitman had specifically asked
O’Dowd for information about Aus-
tralia:—
When you write don’t be afraid to
send me about Australian idiosyn-
crasies the woods special trees and
birds and looks, life, people, peculi-
arities,' occupations, etc. (under the
thin glaze of conventionalities, as
here, a vast plummetless depth of
democratic humanity is existing
thinking acting ebbing and flow-
ing. ...
In December, 1890, there came a
parcel of Whitman’s complete works;
one for Jim Hartigan, one for Fred
Woods and two copies for Bernard.
The day after these were dispatched
Whitman sat down in his room and
wrote an accompanying letter. He was
keeping fairly well, he said, remember-
ing the hearty breakfast of meat chops,
oatmeal and tea. He glanced about
as he wrote; outside snow was falling,
inside his feet rested near a blazing
oakwood fire, his back to the usual
mess of unmade bed and books and
papers piled on floor and table:—
Often think of you there more
than you know —(my favourite
notion is to entwine the working
folk of right sort all round the globe,
all lands, that is the foundation of
L of G—they are banded together
in spirit and interest essentially all
the earth).
The next note from Whitman sent
greetings for the New Year. It was
penned in the half-light of the after-
noon while sitting before the fire: —
Well the new year has come and
it is a dark foggy stormy glum day
here—my troubles are still from this
inveterate grip and bladder affec-
tion (bad)—But I am sitting here
and blessing the powers that it is no
worse—as before written I keep
good heart (that’s the old southside
phrase) and a fair appetite and
strong right hand . . .
January 2. Same foggy glum
weather—not cold—falls like a great
wet blanket over the country every-
where—but the general inside glitter
and fun and feasting go on and
even increase (it is a kind of
delirium).
For almost the whole of the month
Whitman was very ill, but he neverthe-
less managed the longest of all his
letters to O’Dowd. As was now usual,
he asked about the books and papers
forwarded, and suggested O’Dowd tell
him of anything of this kind he wanted
—“do not remit any money for them
as I wish to present them”:—
Oftener think of you all than you
have any idea of —have been fixing
up the copy for second annex and
shall send to the printers in three
days, which will conclude L of G
. . . wish you could see the great
fresh splendid shoot of canary-
yellow tulips a friend bro’t in five
days ago—in a goblet on the table
near me ever since and quite fine
yet.
The entrance of Mrs. Davis, who
brought her furniture to Whitman’s
house and attended to him in the hope
of marriage, and who later, finding
Walt had bequeathed her only 500
dollars, went to law, enabled the ailing
man to fill a few more lines: —
My friend and housekeeper Mrs.
Davis has just been in a few minutes
“for a small break” as she calls it
—she is very “cheery” and good to
me —has a good presence —is a
sailor’s widow.
The last two letters sent from New
Jersey deal with the approach of death.
The first of them begins with a saluta-
tion: “Dear comrade Bernard O’Dowd
and dear friends and comrades all men
and women”:—
Am still holding out low condi-
tion and sick and near at the end
of the rope—(but all that will
manage itself without talk) —So y’r
country is forging away at separate
identity and independence like
marriage to grown people it is the
thing to do, perhaps every way
proper and indispensible—but how
it will all turn out is in the mystery
and fortune of the untried unknown
to come. (Seems to me for a century
the British gov’t has upon the whole
been more a loving parent indulgent
and liberal than any querulous
captious one to its colonies all).
While waiting for his supper the first
evening of November, 1891, Walt
Whitman managed a few sentences in
his scrawling handwriting:—
The doctor says I have progressive
paralysis, which is eligible to have a
fatal termination any hour—so you
must all take my letters and convey-
ances of friendship and affection
(strangers as we are face to face) as
my last missives—write me as soon
as you can.
A few months later he was dead.
The letters which O’Dowd had
accumulated during the two years he
was in contact with Whitman were
securely kept in a special cabinet,
together with the other books and
papers he had received. These scraps
from Whitman’s twilight years, vague,
maundering, and bland, cannot be
said to have any literary value. There
is, however, a touch of indestructible
dignity, an aura of banal sincerity
about the communication. Whitman’s
poetry and prose undoubtedly had a
tremendous effect upon our own
“thorn-crowned laureate of the new
democracy,” and this, together with
the personal touch supplied by the
letters, was sufficient.
Hugh Anderson.
Science at Sea
In his foreword to The Voyage of
the Hurunui (Caxton Press) —from the
unexpected address of Night-watch-
man’s Office, Probate Registry, Somer-
set House, London, W.C.2 —the New
Zealand poet D’Arcy Cresswell defends
the numerous repetitions of this long
ballad of the sea as necessary to “the
spell-making intention of the poem.”
The repetitions are indeed excessive;
but what is more important—for if
the spell worked they might disappear
from notice—is that the spell fails to
eventuate. Nowhere, as in that extra-
ordinary tale of the Ancient Mariner,
is one caught up into an enchantment
that carries its own conviction so that
reality and probability are irrelevant.
Mr. Cresswell’s is a poem with an
obvious debt to Coleridge; also to the
sea-ballads of Kipling and, oddly, to
the ballad of the battle of Sherrifmuir.
It is the story of a “well-educated able-
seaman” aboard the Hurunui, sailing
from Lyttelton to England; .who, for
mystical reasons, prays the captain to
turn the ship away from its landfall:
if they land in England, as they are
momently about to do, they will be
destroyed by the machine-age and the
other concomitants of our civilisation
—including, no doubt, the atomic
bomb. They must turn away from
the abstract and lethal world of
science to the mystical ocean of tradi-
tion where sensuality and science, the
concrete and the abstract, are blended
and balanced in harmony: —
And the parts concrete are at his
feet,
He has ground them small as air,
And he feeds this gruel to the mind
for fuel
That was fed by them on the
beautiful
Till it’s grown a monster blind and
cruel
On this forbidden fare.
And of this meat doth the mind
excrete
The slick machine and the aircraft
fleet
And the floodlit tower and the
roaring street
And this ship whose engines pound
and beat
Wherein they have no share.
The deep alone doth the Fiend not
own
And thither we must fly, men....
Last night it said at my bunkhead
We must pass this wall or die, men.
Mr. Cresswell’s poetic problem—as
distinct from the philosophical diffi-
culties of an attack oti the machine-
age—is to create, simultaneously, a
convincing ballad style and a convinc-
ing mystical, if not actual, drama out
of the theme and subjectmatter with
which he has chosen to wrestle. It
was a practically impossible task. His
style in this most curious ballad is
too heavily derivative; his drama, fail-
ing to impress the reader as either
human or visionary, remains essen-
tially abstract—the very thing which
poetry, no less than science, must avoid.
Buffalo Bill
There have been more than 800
books written about Buffalo Bill, most
of them lies, and in attempting to find
a clear track through them all in
Buffalo Bill and the Wild West
(Hamish Hamilton) Victor Weybright
and Henry Blackman Sell don’t seem
to know quite where they are.
It seems reasonably probable that
Buffalo Bill was born —in lowa in
1846, the fourth of the eight children
of a pioneer settler named Isaac Cody
—and it is hardly to be disputed that,
like so many of our own more flam-
boyant characters, he was of Irish
descent ... though whether directly
from Milesius, King of Spain and
founder of “the first dynasty in
Ireland,” is perhaps not so sure.
It is certain, again, that he was a
mighty hunter of buffaloes. After he
had failed in a hotelkeeping interlude
he went to Salina, Kansas, to look for
a job on the Kansas Pacific railway,
then pushing out into the prairies, and
was hired for 500 dollars a month to
supply buffalo-meat to the railway
workers. In the 17 months he was on
the job he is reported to have slain
4280 buffalo; and afterwards he took
dudes from the east—including the
Grand Duke Alexis of Russia —on
organised hunting-trips, on which they
knocked-off everything in sight and
strewed the prairies with champagne-
bottles. Bill used to ride his buffaloes
down and shoot them at close-quarters,
and, except for the Grand Dukes, might
just as well have been any Australian
outback character.
Still another undisputed set of facts
is that, having made a name in the
cities for these exploits as guide and
hunter, he took to the show-business
and, at first naively, afterwards with
tremendous flair, brought the Wild
(Continued on page 35)


I
X
mm
■
I
1
■
I
f
i
f
IN
V
I
ss
*
#
I
1
f
i
i
*
I
I
i
I
i
f
f
f
f
f
i
r \ *n.
/
f lltl!
. sS/SS/S"
f
rjn
\ w
I
' #// ////^
i
#
%
£
w
m
/
%
/
1
1
"S/S/S/Ss/A
M3M MHOA
Admiral
GIANT SIZ
1 Inch SCREEN
“Miami” 21 in. TV Console
Giant 21 -inch picture tube, sharpest
image, automatic suppression ot inter-
ference. Easy Terms, £250/19/-.
e ßelvedere ” 21 in. Table TV
Most compact 21-inch table model.
Extra valves and circuits for improved
reception. Complete with legs at same
price. Very Easy Terms. £229/19/-.
Why put oft buying your TV Receiver? You can enjoy all the wonders o£ television in
your own home now . . . because you can buy the Admiral at Anthony Horderns
on the easiest terms ... 5% interest and small weekly payments. Come and inspect
our range of Admirals in our Radio Centre. Styled identically with the American
Admirals, the models we offer you embody electronic advances that have given the
Admiral undisputed leadership in America ... all guaranteed for picture clarity
and quality of sound . . . they all have the giant screen for clearer, sharper images.
WE’VE 50 READY FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY. TAKE ADVANTAGE OF EASY TERMS, RIJY NOW!
Television and Radio Department
Ground Floor, George Street.
was:
11 y«8 *
COME IN AND HAVE BREAKFAST IN OCR SECOND FLOOR DINING ROOM AT 8.30 MON. TO FRIDAY


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 4001
Wednesday, October 17, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
■Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Crawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEFENCE AND UNITY
THE debates on the defence estimates in the
Federal Parliament illustrated both the difficulties
of democratic Governments in these matters and
the weaknesses of diffused administrative control.
There is an eager desire to be up to date, which
leads to expense and, in the course of nature,
obsolescence. The Ministerial branches are always
ready to prove that they are abreast of the rest of
the world, but they are at a disadvantage in that all
the designing and progress in transport and
weaponry is done in larger countries which can
afford to stand the racket. Each advance is often
available to a rim-of-the-world country like
Australia only when it has become obsolescent
elsewhere.
The system also is hampered by the fact that
some of the army of Defence Ministers are too
ignorant of the matters on which they are supposed
to exercise judgment to have any independent
thought, so that their lives are divided between
trying to assess the needs which the service-leaders
tell them exist, while justifying themselves to an
Opposition which claims that everything without
exception compassed by the Government is a
product of squandermania, ineptitude and swash-
buckling.
Probably the centre of the dynamism of
defence policy is Sir Philip McBride, one of the
ablest and most experienced men in Parliament,
accustomed in private life to dealing with projects
of national scale and content to do his Ministerial
job quietly and without advertisement. But the
armchair experts who prefer phrase to action
regard him as a cipher and wonder how he earns
his keep.
Ministers’ difficulties have recently been
increased by the fact that when supply requirements
of particular products are filled they are under
threat by the unions if they dismiss unneeded staff.
This matter paradoxically cuts both ways, since
if they close down the projects, as is now being done
with some, they are subject to loud Opposition
complaints that they are creating unemployment,
and if they continue them they are assailed by the
same critics for extravagance and waste of public
funds which might be used for social services.
They have to meet the criticism of the daily press.
The lambasting which every now and then
the Defence Ministries receive from these critics
is apt to hit them right on the bump of vanity, with
the result that, like Mr. Cramer last week, they
at once set out to justify themselves by entering
into competition with their critics in the game of
revelation. Mr. Cramer, in the debate on the Army
estimates, obligingly told anybody who wanted to
know how many tanks and other engines of war
his department possessed—or rather how few.
The difficulties arising from criticism have
been further added to by the existence of that
excellent body the Parliamentary Public Accounts
Committee, headed by Professor Armand Bland.
It is doing a useful work, and it is salutary that
it should exist, but its approach is the accountant’s
approach. It can never reconcile itself to the truth
that preparation for defence is inevitably a process
of scrap-and-waste when applied to the conditions
of the modern world.
One of the most startling and dangerous
tendencies, and one which could wreck Western
defence, has been manifested during the Suez crisis
when “Labor” throughout the British Common-
wealth has adopted a dual policy, “soft-shell” as
regards Nasser (who, as Sir Roger Makin, British
Ambassador in the United States, has said openly,
is evidently controlled in his policies from Moscow),
and hostile to action by the British Government.
The propaganda which has emanated from
the highest circles in the Labor party has actually
led to something very much like mutiny among
British reservists in the Mediterranean. And if the
continuous high-pressure advocacy of Dr. Evatt
and the Wards and Haylens along the same lines in
regard to defence were as successful in Australia it
is beyond doubt that the basic defence-schemes of
this country would also be wrecked.
For more than 10 years the whole West has
been eagerly and anxiously striving to reach some
basis on which nuclear war could be outlawed.
The hard-pressed economies of the Western world
could be saved hundreds of millions of pounds if
this objective could be achieved, but every time
Western Governments make the attempt, every time
a conference is held, every time the West responds
to a cry from Russia for the banning of atomic war
—in the same tones in which Dr. Evatt utters it —
Moscow gives a demonstration which makes it clear
that it is not prepared to give the same guarantees
as civilised countries; that its word is not worth
the paper it is written on; that it will not submit
its defence to the inspection-systems to which other
countries are all willing to agree.
While Communism exists it must and will
continue to work for the ideal of world revolution.
This means, in Moscow theory, world conquest by
Russia. There is no chance of reducing defence
commitments save at the price of ultimate destruc-
tion of everything the West stands for, including
the democracy which gives Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Ward the right of freedom of speech which they
use to foul their own nests.
It is very easy to criticise Australian defence
and any other system of defence. And no doubt,
according to whatever variation of theory one
follows, there is much to criticise in it and much to
criticise in the critics. There are, for instance,
many critics who hold that Australia should break
its linkage in defence with Britain, which they,
under the influence of the barrage of contemptuous
American propaganda, hold to be obsolete and
old-fashioned, lagging behind the splendid and
gaudy steamheated modernism of Uncle Sam, apart
from the fact that we are now supposed to be in
the “American sphere.” But the fact is that the
defence of the United Kingdom and its trade-
routes is almost as important to us as the defence of
Australia internally, since without British and
European markets this country would be a back-
ward and sub-standard appendage of Asia. The
United States has nothing to offer us in the way
of markets which could keep us up to our present
levels of prosperity. On the other hand, there is
plenty of argument for co-ordination in Australian-
American defence, but not at the price of a national
sell-out.
It is also very easy to argue the merits of
Army development versus Air Force and Navy,
of the place in the scheme and the proportion of
attention it should receive of civil defence against
nuclear attack.
But there are some facts which are incontro-
vertible: that all defence-systems are in the
melting-pot; that the basic need in modern defence
is to have in being as large a force of primarily-
trained and -drilled manpower, as large training
cadres of officers and n.c.o.s ready to spring into
action as possible; as large an industrial set-up
streamlined to produce whatever is necessary at
short notice in case of emergency; as large an
aerodrome set-up, widely distributed throughout
the continent and on its approaches, as can be
achieved within the compass of our resources;
efficient and fast transport-systems suitable to be
geared for defence purposes; warning-systems in
being; anti-submarine defence developed far
beyond skeleton stage. Above all a clear and
unified understanding by all parties on a national
scale of what would need to be done in case of
emergency and how it is to be done.
A Warning Bark
IN addition to the more obvious attributes neces-
sary for the proper/performance of the job, the
post of Auditor-General calls for qualities of
patience and tenacity above and beyond the
standard demanded of the holders of most public
positions.
An A.-G. has to get used to having his
strictures and admonitions ignored year after year
by Governments grown callous to criticism and
departments which make or break rules at will.
The New South Wales Auditor-General’s report
for 1950-51 (and for several years before) listed
instances where statutory provisions had been
varied or suspended by departments without proper
permission. The list ranged from minor items such
as a variation in the basis of charging registration-
fees on beehives to a departure from statutory
procedure in relation to the allocation of interest-
charges on railway indebtedness, this last regarded
so seriously by the Auditor-General that he has
for years refused to place his certificate on the
Railways Department’s balance-sheet. The Auditor-
General’s report for 1955-56 includes almost all
the items complained of in 1950-51, plus a few
more.
An Auditor-General has often been likened to
a watchdog. The analogy is quite a fair one. The
main function of a watchdog is to bark a warning.
If no one takes any notice of his bark he can’t be
blamed for that. The Public Watchdog can, how-
ever, in addition to repeating unheeded warnings,
express his own misgivings, and the N. S. Wales
Auditor-General's report for 1955-56 obviously
doesn’t come from a man who feels entirely happy
about the financial position of the State.
Discussing the disclosed deficit for the year
and the amounts the Treasurer was obliged to
find for debt charges and cash assistance to business
undertakings, he says:—
As amply demonstrated in the financial history
of the State, real separation of the finances of the
undertakings is feasible only in the case of those
able to operate successfully within their own
revenue resources. When losses reach any propor-
tion they inevitably fall upon the Consolidated
Revenue Fund.... the cash balance of the Con-
solidated Revenue Fund, as shown in the (Account
Current, may be accepted broadly as a guide to
the financial condition of the State after making
good losses of business undertakings. At June 30,
1956, this balance was an overdraft of £4,805,608.
But the report adds that this doesn’t give a
complete assessment of the overall position, as
there are also to be considered losses of many years’
standing which have been charged to an Advances
Account, in the hope that they may be recouped
later. The items have been periodically reduced by
allocations from Consolidated Revenue, but at
June 30, 1956, there was still £2,023,984 outstand-
ing, so that “for all practical purposes the Consoli-
dated Revenue Fund overdraft, the uncleared items
in the Advances Account, and the accumulated
surplus of the Maritime Services Board, combined
in a net amount of £5,680,097, may be accepted
as the measure of the State’s revenue leeway carried
over into 1956-57.”
Thus far the Auditor-General has been merely
stating facts, and he is doing no more when he
says that up to the present cash resources in the
current accounts and on deposit have been more
than sufficient to meet this overdrawing. A warn-
ing growl creeps into the report when he comments
that “Deficiency financing was, however, the largest
single factor in a fall of £9,494,975 in cash balances”
during the year, reducing them from £26,089,703
to £16,596,728. And there’s a definite bark in:—
It has been pointed out in many reports of
the Auditor-General that the strength of the
Treasurer’s cash position rests almost entirely in
the Special Deposits Accounts, composed of trust
moneys, departmental and other working accounts
and funds held for particular expenditure objec-
tives. Within reason the use of the credit of these
accounts for general purposes of government is not
objectionable. Deficiency financing is perhaps the
least worthy among the purposes for which the
general cash balance may be used and undoubtedly
the limits of prudence in this direction had been
reached at the close of the past year.
The chief factor contributing to the N. S. Wales
Treasury’s one-way ticket to bankruptcy is, of
course, the deplorable financial record of the
public-transport systems. The Auditor-General
lists the losses on Government railways and tram-
and bus-services since 1949-50. In only one year,
1953-54, did the railway accounts show a surplus;
it was £154,234, and was arrived at only after the
contribution from Consolidated Revenue towards
the cost of developmental lines had been increased
from £BOO,OOO to £1 million and a new item,
£BOO,OOO, had been thrown-in to boost the Railways
Superannuation Account. The net railway-
deficiency since 1949-50 is £22,637,344. Sydney
and Newcastle trams and buses showed a loss for
every year of that period, with a total deficiency for
the seven years of £19,787,401. The combined
losses on all N. S. Wales public transport for the
period 1949-56 was thus £42,424,745.
These were the frightening figures which led
the Cahill Government, with its general election
safely behind it, to take the unpopular course of
increasing freights and fares from July 1 last, though
even with that boost to revenue the estimated losses
for the current year are still placed at £3,850,000
for the railways and £1,835,000 for the trams and
buses. On past records those figures are likely to
fall short of reality. Questions in Parliament have
failed to produce a straightout answer whether
or not the estimates include any provision for
additional wages under quarterly-adjustments, and
on the published figures it seems certain that they
don’t. The total estimated expenditure of the
Railways Department for 1956-57 is only £1 million
above the actual expenditure for 1955-56, although
the several increases granted last year will apply
for the full period this year, and there was a further
increase of 7s. a week granted in August, with
another expected next month.
It is therefore hot surprising that the Auditor-
General, returning to the general position of
N. S. Wales finances, said: —
If the adverse turn in finances should be
checked by higher transport-charges and new fiscal
measures given effect' in the 1956-57 Budget, the
accumulated deficit of itself could not be described
as alarming. It is nevertheless disconcerting to
note that, although a great increase in revenue is
in prospect for 1956-57, only the small sum of
£36,935 is anticipated as surplus available in
reduction of the deficiency. Moreover, the whole
position is overshadowed by the threat of further
inflation, which, if it eventuates, will create new
revenue-raising problems and altogether may prove
very much more difficult to cope with than was
the case in earlier years.
Next year’s Auditor-General’s report will
probably contain another chapter of this absorbing
serial.


ARAB STEW


PLAIN ENGLISH
Inevitable Veto
The first round at U.N.O. in the Suez
Canal dispute has gone as forecast by
The Bulletin, thanks to Egypt’s Russian
backing and what a British politician has
described as the “rock-'n’-roll” methods
of Mr. Dulles.
Both Russia and the United States
appear from the beginning to have been
playing power politics of the old type
which they both so much deprecate
publicly.
Russia has been bent on creating more
little wars in the Middle East which
would leave the field clear for the exten-
sion of the Iron Curtain over the Mediter-
ranean. Let the Western Powers move
out. and no considerations about colon-
ialism or the rights of minorities are likely
to interfere with Russian ambitions. Oil,
ports, air-routes and resources will all
disappear under the Red blanket.
The United States, on the other hand—
or at least Mr. Dulles and the United
States oil industry, since President Eisen-
hower seems to speak with a different
voice from his Secretary of State—are
obviously aiming to switch the European
oil business into the American zone while
ousting Britain from the Middle Eastern
fields and leaving these to American
interests to operate for a market east of
Suez which would be used to consolidate
American power in Asia.
The Labor party in the British Com-
monwealth and the Indians have fitted
their policy unwittingly into this game.
They have done their utmost to embarrass
their own Governments, with the net
result that a precedent has been created
which weakens the authority of inter-
national law to the point that it becomes
scarcely worth while anybody entering
into an international agreement with a
country likely to shelter under the Russian
or American wing.
It went without saying that Russia
would use its veto in the canal dispute.
It has been obvious from the beginning
that the trouble was of Russian devising
and that Nasser’s bold abuse and shouted
threats, if not made in Moscow, had been
initialled there before publication.
The Security Council agreed to begin by
voting on six principles not one of which
has any legal binding force in view of the
general implications of the whole taken
together—except perhaps the one which
declares that the sovereignty of Egypt
shall be respected. The rest are so nebu-
lous and so subject to negotiation in par-
ticular circumstances that they are mere
words. They were part of a resolution
drawn in two parts by the British and
French, and they were carried as the
first part of the motion. By themselves
they gave Egypt just about everything it
wanted and there was no opposition.
The second part of the resolution
called for the endorsement of the 18-
Power proposals for the international
control of the canal taken to Cairo by the
Menzies committee. Eleven nations voted
on this section. Nine were for and two,
the U.S.S.R. and its retrieved satellite,
Yugoslavia (which thus came out in its
true colors), voted against. And then the
Russian veto operated. The majority
of nine-to-two was thus defeated, and
Moscow and Dr. Evatt can rejoice once
more at the triumph in world manage-
ment of the principle of government by
tyrannous minority.
It is time the world recognised that
Russia is running U.N.O. Egypt has been
given the green-light to continue breaking
the 1888 Convention, particularly against
Israel, which has issued warnings of the
consequences. Nasser is in control of the
canal and the company’s assets seated in
Egypt. His vanity has been further
nourished.
Victorian C.-0.-l.
The behavior of the Labor party in the
Victorian Assembly in contesting every
clause of the Bolte Government’s bill to
cease paying, automatically, c.-0.-l.
adjustments was understandable since it
is the Opposition, and it is good election-
eering. The antics of the corner Country
party were understandable, too, to
students of humbug.
The bill would not have been intro-
duced without an assurance of Country-
party support in the Legislative Council,
where the C.P. holds the balance, so during
the angry Assembly debate the C.P.
put up speakers to get newspaper head-
lines about the need to control profits
before wages, thus making-up on the
swings and the roundabouts.
The Government will push the bill
through the Council this week, avoiding a
pay-out of rather less than a million for
the next c.-0.-l. adjustment. Bolte has cut
it fine, though ; he has only a day or two
to spare.
The White Flag
The Queensland wool-strike is nearing
its end unless some agitator can think up
a new reason for pressure-group tactics
and disruption.
In the end Mr. Gair came out with his
true colors —waving a white flag—and vir-
tually surrendered. Perhaps he was
deserted by some more members of his
shivering caucus. At ahy rate, he sud-
denly ordered the Public Service Com-
missioner to approach the State Indus-
trial Court to secure a review of the shear-
ing award, which the A.W.U. has refused
to obey, and has done its best by sabotage,
threats and even violence to make inoper-
ative over a year.
The A.W.U. itself has been in open
contempt of the court during the whole
period and has treated it with contumely.
But, nevertheless, its representatives had
not the slightest hesitation in asking the
right to appear before the court, every-
body well knowing that the union will
only obey any decision of the court that
suits it. Mr. Bukowski, despite the fact
that the union is in contempt, was allowed
to appear.
The wool-strike, of course, was not
called-off while the proceedings were in
being. The A.W.U.’s accomplices were
doing their best to prevent wool being
loaded.
The court raised the award —interim —
by 9s. 6d., bringing it to £7 11s. per 100,
equal to the N. S. Wales rate, and
eighteenpence above the Federal award.
Mr. Bukowski then said graciously that
the union would “give favorable con-
sideration” to recommending its mem-
bers to accept the new award, but this
would be conditional on the withdrawal
of free labor—the graziers’ own labor-
in wool-dumping and such other condi-
tions as the union cared to impose.
The A.W.U. has, of course, given no
undertaking that it will respect the law
in future. It can be taken for granted
that the new award, given in a rush after
only a three-hour hearing, will only be
obeyed if it suits the shearers, who have
won hands-down.
The wanton and illegal strike has cost
the country millions. It has cost the
Queensland Government heavily in loss
of freight. It will cost thousands in over-
time which the lawless wharfies and others
of their kind will gain as the reward of
their lawlessness, so that they may con-
descend to get away the 320,000 bales
which are now in store. The burden on
the shipping industry, as on the graziers
and others, will be heavy.
Mr. Bukowski still considered himself
the ruler of Queensland after the hear-
ing, and apparently he is. The graziers
had expressed their intention of going
ahead with wool-dumping, and Mr.
Bukowski had at once said that if they did
he would produce “complete chaos,”
which would not be limited to Queensland.
If he attempted to do this he can be
sure of one thing: there will be no resis-
tance from the feeble Mr. Gair, who was
last heard of wringing his hands and
begging everybody to be reasonable and
show good sense. The latter must have
been relieved over the weekend when it
seemed that the trouble would be settled
—till next time.
The only real use he had made of his
emergency powers had been to get the
award revised by reference to the court
through an irregular procedure. The
lawbreakers can be sure that they can go
on defying the Government of Queens-
land without danger to themselves. The
only people in danger in Queensland are
those who obey the courts and the law.
Melbourne Success-story
“D.”: The success-story in the current
crop of retailers’ accounts in Melbourne is
Kurt Geiger’s. During the year he had
merged his business —K. O. Geiger, a dis-
tinguished shop with world-class women’s
accessories with Melbourne’s oldest
shop, Hicks, Atkinson, Ltd. Despite the
current downtrend, Hicks’s sales and
profit are up.
Geiger arrived in Melbourne in 1938,
almost penniless ; his father, mother and
sister had been murdered in Vienna by the
“master race,” and Geiger, a fifth-year
medical student in Vienna, would have
had to become a second-year student at
Melbourne University.
Geiger opened a little shop in Collins-
street, got leather and took it to boot-
makers with advertisements from Euro-
pean magazines and had different sorts of
shoes made. He also took a job at £4 10s.
a week as a window-dresser to help pay
his own rent.
They wouldn’t have him in the Army
during the war, or on construction
because of a dicky back, and leather was
proscribed; so he went ahead with sub-
stitute materials. After the war he sold
shoes in Canada and the U.S. for English
manufacturers, earning dollars for him-
self, too, and moved to larger premises in
Collins-street, which he has made into a
lovely shop.
He has turned Hicks into a dream-shop,
too, with window-displays not merely of
real spring-blossoms but real spring birds,
and, almost incidentally, merchandise. His
newspaper announcements have been the
talk oil Melbourne advertising-men. No
doubt about it; the better New Aus-
tralians have been out of bowyangs longer
than we.
Geiger is only 42, although he’s a
heavy fellow, and looks older; and his
English has been polished, like so many
of his countrymen’s, by inveterate
playgoing.
Paradox in Jordan
The awful muddle which is developing
in the Middle East is well illustrated by
the Israel-Jordan position.
Israel is virtually a creation of the
United States ; it. is a miniature State
whose citizens are largely not native, with
a population reaching out to a couple ot
million on land taken from expatriated
Arabs. When it was a British mandate
the colonists, who were living under
British protection, used every kind of
outrage, including murder, to get the
British out.
Anybody with threepence-worth of
knowledge should have known that the
creation of the new country would do
more to produce trouble in the Middle
East than anything in years. Israel has
always lived as an ajmed camp. Its
borders are a shambres. Anybody who
moves a yard out of line on border-
approaches courts an instant bullet. All
the surrounding territory is hostile.
Egypt has for years refused to allow
Israeli trade through the Suez Canal,
and has been in continual armed conflict
with the Israelis. War goes on in a kind
of dysentery of sorties without cease
over the Jordanian border —raids and
counter-raids, shooting and counter-
shootings.
The presence of Israel, and Western, and
particularly United States, support for it,
has done more to antagonise the Arab
States towards the West and bring them
nearer to the Iron Curtain Powers than
any other influence. It has been certain
from the beginning that the negotiations
of the Secretary-General of U.N.O.
would be quite hopeless and that his
interference would, in the end, only
weaken the links of the Arabs with the
West.
The gradual process of alienation of
the Arabs from their British friends has
been obvious for some time. It was
marked, inter alia, by the dismissal of
Glubb Pasha and his officers from com-
mand of the Arab Legion and by the
close co-operation and support of the
Jordanians with Nasser in his Suez Canal
antics.
Meanwhile further fighting has
developed round the Israeli borders, each
side blaming the other for aggression.
It seemed at the beginning of the week
that the Israelis were bent on attack on
Jordan. There had been considerable
casualties in the previous few days, and
the Israelis claimed to have pushed 12
miles inside the Jordanian borders.
The Syrian Army was . reported to be
mobilising on the northern flank, and
Jordan was anxiously discussing the
whole affair. But the most Gilbertian
feature was that the British Ambassadors
in the region were reported to have made
it clear that, if Israel attacks Jordan, the
U.K. will be bound to go to Jordan’s
assistance in accordance with the Amman
Treaty signed in March, 1948, two years
after the United Kingdom recognised the
independence of Jordan.
No doubt any British force sent to
carry out the treaty which compels the
U.K. to come to Jordan’s assistance if
attacked would be commanded by the
ejected Lieutenant-General Glubb. Or
perhaps the Hashemites will be allowed
to nominate their own British com-
mander.
Wine Week's Success
Wine Week in Melbourne popped off
with more than 6000 guests being given
their head in the superbly decorated
Maple Room at the Oriental Hotel
among 318 distinct wines from 25 leading
Australian makers.
The guests were squeezed in at hourly
sessions —J. Bowen Pain, the chairman
of the Week, claims not another could
have got in—while the Oriental stall
washed the correct stem-glasses between-
times and totted up 40,000 washings in
the five days.
Bowen Pain, a Melbourne identity, was
the protagonist; he has been giving
wine-tastings to customers and citizens
at his Matthew Lang cellars for years,
with an educational talk; and Wine
Week was an elaboration of these.
Leaders of the industry helped-out with
talks at the sessions on phases of the
industry—Bob Seppelt came over from
Adelaide to talk on wine through the
ages—and connoisseurs turned up from
all States to taste the truly notable
collection.
It isn’t likely the Week will move to
another capital unless it can produce a
Bowen Pain.
To cheer the industry along during
the week the Australian Wine Board pro-
duced a report announcing that as a
result of the national wine-advertising
campaign, sales of table-wines were
increasing and greater interest was being
shown in the consumption of wines with
meals ; Colin Mackay, the board’s over-
seas representative, suggested in London
that it might be the year to send Aus-
tralian hock to Germany because German
connoisseurs had just smacked their lips
over Australian wine, and hock was short
in Germany ; and French athletic authori-
ties announced they were taking a chance
on Australian food and wines for their
Olympic team.
It is unfortunate Bowen Pain’s collec-
tion can’t be carted around the nation as
it exists ; it is a thought for next time.
Another Yarra Bridge
The cost of the new King-street bridge
over the Yarra, for which tenders will
close next January, is estimated at
£3,500,000—a nice piece of change in
comparison with the cost of other Yarra
bridges. It’s a sort of payment deferred
for a city which for decades stubbornly
refused to bridge the river adequately.
The first bridge over the Yarra, where
Princes bridge now stands, cost £4OO, and
the present one, put up in the two years
to 1888, was built for £137,000. Queen’s
bridge was completed in 1890 for £42,242,
and with these two city bridges Mel-
burnians sat back for a long, long rest.
It was obvious in the first motorised
decade, the nineteen-twenties, that the two
bridges could not handle peak traffic,
but the estimated cost of the bridge at
Spencer-street, £200,000, shocked the
prosperous citizenry, especially the
Country-party Spring-street farmers. The
job ultimately became a depression work
and cost £170,000, with approaches, in
1937.
The bridge Will be a far
more elaborate undertaking than any of
these. It will run under the railway-
viaduct at the corner of King- and
Flinders-streets, over the Yarra and the
St. Kilda railway, across many streets in
north-west South Melbourne to sweep up
close to St. Kilda-road and Queen’s-road.
Early this year when the decision to
build was first announced, Public Works
Minister Maltby put building-time at less
than two years. Now they’re talking of
three-and-a-half years.
Defending Import-licensing
“Stromlo” : There have been many curi-
ous features associated with import-
licensing, not the least of them being the
regular assertion by the Government that
the system is “temporary,” and will be
wiped out at some unspecified time in the
future. The complaints which have
reached a peak in recent weeks have
evoked little Opposition sympathy, it
being part of “Labor” policy, of course, to
impose more and more controls irrespec-
tive of need or merit, but suggestions are
now gaining currency that the general
licensing organisation will reach some
measure of stability and efficiency within
a few weeks, and that complaints will then
decrease, partly as a result of the new
“appeal” provisions. One aspect of the
whole thing which appears peculiar, how-
ever, is the constant willingness of the
Chambers of Manufactures to defend
import-licensing at any cost.
TTiis willingness to support a system
introduced solely for economic reasons
must surely stem from the unalloyed
pleasure of too many Australian manu-
facturers that their rivals from overseas
are denied Australian markets as a result
of it. The denial of markets doesn’t stem
from the imposition of a Customs tariff
fixed after adequate investigation and a
report to Parliament, but from the arbi-
trary decision of officials whose only in-
structions are to stop or curtail all
o Continued, on next page)


exports in particular classes, and who are
answerable only to busy Ministers only
100 anxious to avoid the odium associated
with licensing.
This is necessarily unfair in its inci-
dence, and often destructive of the
incentive to manufacturers to go flat-out
to reduce costs and improve efficiency.
The Tariff Board itself is well aware of
the dangers, while properly resisting sug-
gestions that the tariff itself should be
used as a way of rationing imports. It
recently quoted the view that inefficiency
and other undesirable elements in indus-
try were being cloaked by import-licens-
ing, and said that supporters of this
opinion felt that the principle of afford-
ing Protection after open inquiry had
been abrogated.
There would be less cause for alarm
if it could be felt with any confidence
that licensing would end soon. At present
there is no evidence to suggest that it
will, and in the meantime manufacturers,
or at least some of them, are contributing
to inflation by sheltering under it, and
permanently losing export-markets which
might have been obtained if there had
been a greater spur to better production
at lower cost. Yet Latham Withall, of
the Associated Chambers of Manufac-
tures, not only talks of the “very great
skill and sympathy” in the administration
of licensing, but adds smugly that obvi-
ously every section of the community
must be expected to make some contri-
bution to the maintenance of our balance-
of-payments position and assist to pre-
serve Australia’s financial integrity in the
international sphere.
This sort of remark makes his whole
outlook suspect. Admittedly, many manu-
facturers are playing the game by pros-
pecting and developing export-markets—
some of them without seeking any export
profits in the initial stage. But far too
many of them are enjoying the artificial
shelter of licensing while basking in
unexpected sunshine. Sooner or later the
chill breeze will reach them. In the mean-
time they are not helping the nation.
POLITICAL POINTS
For their beauty they are famed,
Though it’s very often claimed
Sydney’s native flowers are scentless as
a bell;
Which appears to be unsound,
For a gent, has now been found
Whose Waratah, he says, has quite a
smell!
• •
The hat that two shop-detectives saw
Nina the discus-thrower slip up her
sleeve must’ve been one of last year’s
models. No sleeve yet made would take
one of this year’s creations.
• •
The Prime Minister’s secretary rang
from Canberra to assure The Bulletin
that the limerick which came into the
P.M.’s mind during his Suez Canal speech
(B. 10/10/’56) was one to be found in
The Faber Book of Comic Verse, a
publication which has long been a favorite
both with Mr. Menzies and his daughter,
Heather. The verse runs:
There was a young lady of Spain,
Who was dreadfully sick on a train,
Not once, but again, !
And again and again.
And again and again and again.
“Becks” is suitably chastened. But he
insists that there is another version.
Perhaps the P.M. might confer with the
Treasurer about it.
• •
Counting is still in progress in the
Tasmanian election, but it was obvious
on Saturday night that the Cosgrove
“Labor” Government had been returned
for another term. It seems almost certain
that the state of parties in the new
Parliament will be the same as it was
before the defection to the Liberals of
Housing Minister Bramich —15-all, with
“Labor” occupying the Treasury benches
by virtue of a majority of primary votes
and the Liberals supplying the Speaker
and Chairman of Committees. Over the
five divisions “Labor” was leading by
9262 on Monday. Its final lead at the
last election was 11,403.
In effect, the chief result of the election
is that Bramich, who last year was
returned in Braddon as a “Labor” man,
has now been sent back by the same
electorate as a Liberal, supplanting one
of the former Libs.
On Monday the possibility was being
canvassed of “Labor” winning an extra
seat in Wilmot to break the 3-3 deadlock
existing in all five divisions, but the
likelihood of this happening seemed
slight. “Labor’s” lead at that stage
was 3064, with the majority of votes
counted. In 1955 “Labor” finished up
3693 ahead in Wilmot, but was still short
of a fourth quota.
e «
Is there any significance in the fact
that the N. S. Wales Milk Board last year
invested £lOO,OOO in Water Board stock?
• •
They’re mighty fickle in the West!
With the fate of the A.C.T.U.’s one-day
strike hanging on their decision, the
Westralian executive voted for it, making
the States’ line-up 4-2 in favor. A three-
all vote would have meant no majority
and no strike. Having voted, they then
became alarmed at what they’d done,
and, according to report, agreed that it
had been “stupid.” Another meeting,
called for Monday night, was expected
to reverse the vote, in which case the
strike would again be “off.”
But, fickle or not, if the Westralian
executive changes its mind it should be
congratulated for having the courage to
do so. Too many disputes drag on
through the unwillingness of one of the
parties to admit a mistake. The attitude
was demonstrated quite recently when a
prominent “Labor” official said, “We
can t back down. We’d look ridiculous.”
• •
Who’s pushing whose barrow?
• •
On Monday Adelaide was indulging
in a Sydney luxury—a one-day strike by
Government trammies and busmen.
Cause of the stoppage is the decision of
the Municipal Tramways Trust to intro-
duce an 80-hour 11-shift fortnight,
approved by the Arbitration Court, but
which the Tramways Employees’ Asso-
ciation claims undermines the 40-hour-
week principle—and robs its members of
£5 to £6 a fortnight overtime. Taxpayers
in South Australia, as in most States,
have to dip deep to meet deficiencies on
public transport, and overtime is a big
item in the wages bill.
• •
Moves to legalise poker-machines in
Westralian clubs have failed, and the
Licensing Court will soon be faced with
the problem of dealing with clubs which
harbor them. A court decision last June
ordered their removal by the end of
December, and clubs will be required to
tell the renewal court next month what
they’re doing to carry out the order. An
expression of intention to take out
N. S. Wales citizenship-papers will not
be accepted as valid grounds for renewing
a licence.
• •
Bolte’s bill to abolish c.-0.-l. adjustments
passed the Vic. Assembly by 40 votes to
22 and is expected to get through the
Council this week. The reason for the
hurry is obvious. Once the decision was
made there was no sense in postponing
action until after the November adjust-
ment had given costs (including Govern-
ment costs) another kick upward.
• •
Dr. A. J. Forbes (L.C.L.) won Satur-
day’s by-election for Archie Cameron’s
CUCKOO SEASON
old seat, Barker (S.A.). Scores, with only
postal-votes to come: Forbes (L.C.L.),
17,397; Dettmann (“Labor”), 13,647 ;
Crowe (Anti-Corn. “Labor”), 2095 ;
McAnaney (Ind. L.C.P.), 2686. The
Liberal vote was lower than at last
December’s general election, but the
intrusion of two other candidates and
the unassessed strength of Cameron’s
considerable personal vote make com-
parisons difficult. To Dr. Evatt the
Barker result and the Tasmanian election
are proof positive of “a strong swing
against the Menzies Government.”
Similar evidence has given the Doc. false
encouragement many times since 1949.
• •
With the demise of the N. S. Wales
Potato Board its newspaper will presum-
ably expire also. This is a pity; it
deserves to survive, for its name if for no
other reason. Is any Northcliffe prepared
to subsidise a Foundation to keep alive
“The N.S.W. Potato”?
• •
Playford on new taxes levied in New
South Wales and Victoria:
There have been increases from 2d. to
3d. in the rate of duty on receipts in Vic-
toria. I do not propose to do likewise,
for already there is a considerable measure
of evasion of this duty throughout Aus-
tralia, and there is no doubt an added
impost will be a further incentive to
evasion. Some States have introduced a
new tax in the form of a duty on hire-
purchase transactions, and have expressed
the opinion that the tax will fall upon hire-
purchase financiers. This, too, I have
avoided, as it seems to me that there is a
very strong probability that this tax will
be passed on to the consumer and con-
stitute an added burden to many persons not
well able to bear it. Again, I have so far
avoided the reimposition of entertainment
taxation on the ground that it falls most
heavily upon persons least able to afford it.
The S.A. Premier pointed out, however,
that as these taxes would be considered
by the Commonwealth Grants Commis-
sion, his Government could only con-
tinue to avoid them if it made up the
difference by other charges or by corres-
ponding economies elsewhere.
• ©
“Sex Must Stop,” says “Weekend’s”
current poster. But wouldn’t that mean
another lost “Weekend”?
• 9
“E. & 0.E.”: Those Democratic
“Labor” Party men who, according to
the Federal A.L.P. president, “were never
Labor men” (B. 3/10/’56) have some-
thing in common with Mr. Bramich,
whose abandonment not only of office,
but membership of the A.L.P., brought
about , Saturday’s Tasmanian election.
While still “Labor” he was invariably
entrusted with the portfolios of other
Ministers when they wanted a trip
abroad. At one time, in addition to
running his own department (Housing),
he was also Acting Minister for Agri-
culture and Acting Minister for Health.
We called him “the Lord High Every-
thing Else.” But what a change 24
hours can make! Since that fateful day
of defection I have been assured, on good
authority, that “Bramich was never a
good Labor man.”
• •
“Queen Sends Congratulations to
Eddie.” Well, Eddie is celebrating 25
years as M.H.R. for East Sydney, but the
Royal message was for the younger Eddie,
Duke of Kent.
• •
Changing step once again, Cahill now
says he will seek leave to join with Bolte
in asking the High Court to declare
uniform-taxation invalid. Last year
Bolte tried to persuade him to do just
that, but although Joe had been fulminat-
ing against the iniquity of the system, he
backed-down when the time came.
Federal “Labor” is all for uniform-
taxation, so if Cahill keeps his mind
changed that’ll be one more point of
cleavage between his Government and
Evatt’s shadow Cabinet.
© •
U.K. Chancellor Harold Macmillan
gave guests at the Lord Mayor’s dinner
at the Mansion House, London, a nice
appetiser when he told them that Britain
had a surplus of £144 million in its
balance-of-payments account for the first
half of 1956. Compared with the same
period in 1955 imports were only slightly
higher and exports rose by £175 million.
Earlier he had estimated a surplus of
£lOO million. Diners were able to tuck
into their turtle soup with the comforting
thought that for the moment, at any rate,
it was paid for.
• •
“Wusslean”: Since parking-meters
began, 18 months ago, to relieve Mel-
bourne motorists of their small change,
the City Council has collected £64,000
in meter-fees, all of which has gone into
general revenue. But motorists who
thought the proceeds would be devoted
to providing parking facilities should not
feel taken down—the council has ordered
another 3500 parking-meters, to be
installed before Christmas.
• •
The necessity of improving the quality
of Australian beef if an increasing flow
of beef-exports was to be assured was
stressed at the Federal Rural Convention
of the Liberal party at Wangaratta (Vic.).
Delegates said this was bound up with
the problem of expeditiously moving
young cattle from breeding areas in the
Kimberleys, Northern Territory and
North Queensland to fattening areas in
Queensland and the southern States. A
possible solution was the extension of the
road-train system, and it was decided to
recommend to the Federal Government
that the Australian Meat Board be asked
to provide funds to investigate the possi-
bilities.
• •
“Bush-cat” on a flood problem:
Pomona is a small fruit-settlement on the
Darling River seven miles above Wentworth.
Normally it enjoys communication with Went-
worth by bituminised highway and has a thrice-
weekly mail-service; two married schoolteachers
live in town and motor out each day to teach the
50-odd children. Since the first week in August,
Pomona has been on an island, and the only
communication with Wentworth has been by
boat, a distance of 23 miles, or by bicycle and
two boats, there being two distinct areas of
water to cross.
Since the floods the mail contractor has not
delivered the mail, but continues to receive pay-
ment. The schoolteachers have not found them-
selves able to keep the school open, though
board at Pomona was offered to them. They
also continue to accept payment for services
rendered.
The settlers have organised a boat-service
to get their produce out, and at least
4000 boxes of citrus fruits and many tons of
pumpkins and beans and peas have been trans-
ported. The main store in Wentworth has put on
a boat which delivers to the settleriient weekly.
A Pomona girl working in an office in Went-
worth goes to work daily by the bike-and-two-
boats method.
We are now dependent upon the D.M.R. to
reopen the road when the floodwaters recede.
My bet is that the settlers will have to do some-
thing about it themselves if they want the road
open for Christmas.


Soc iety
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INDS'
WHEN the Bobbie Burns statue was
erected in Canberra there were only
two liquor-licences in the vicinity the
Hotel Wellington across the road and the
Canberra Bowling Club a couple of
hundred yards across a paddock. Now
there are five within about a quarter-of-
a-mile, a sixth will soon be granted, it is
expected, to the Highland and Burns
Club being built behind the statue, and
there is a seventh in prospect if the lawn-
tennis people decide to build a clubhouse.
The three new ones are the Services Club,
the Acton-Queanbeyan Football Club
and the Manuka Football Club, all L of
which have comfortable premises and a
considerable degree of conviviality under
liquor laws which permit them to dispense
fluids to members for 24 hours a day
seven days a week. Some keen observers
claim to have seen an increasing smile
on the statue’s stony face. —“Mugga
Way.”
* *
“P.0.M.C.”: He might have been a
rails-bookmaker, a male model or the
trainer of the favorite, in his smart, snap-
brim felt hat, new fawn d.-b. suit, nylon
shirt and maroon-and-gold satin tie and
brown patent-leather shoes. Before he
entered the Paddock tearooms for lunch
on Epsom-day at Randwick, he leaned his
wastepaper spike and chaffbag against
the wall outside the door.
■* +>
“Burr Imul”: Why do people say,
“Fawn-colored cars are easy to keep
clean” when they really mean, “Fawn-
colored cars are easy to keep dirty”?
<* ***
“Derwent”: Add to the world’s
curious hobbies that of collecting
football-badges. A Gibraltar police-
officer named Manuel Asquez (he s a
Spaniard) wrote to the secretary of the
Tasmanian Football League some time
ago asking for addresses of clubs and
associations in the State. Now he has
requested that an association-badge and
badges of clubs affiliated with the
N.T.F.A. be forwarded to him for his
collection, and as token of goodwill has
attached a Spanish bullfight programme
to his letter. The badges are on the
way to Gibraltar police-headquarters.
♦> *x* *x*
“Lorna Doone”: At the last Confirma-
tion by the Bishop of Adelaide befoie his
retirement he was addressing the boys
of a G.P.S. §peaking of the power for
good within themselves, he mentioned
the terrible power of the Delta-wing
bomber. His voice was drowned by a low-
flying plane zooming overhead. He
paused in good effect, and then continued
to enlarge on the vast power yet to be
unleashed ... It was good theatre, unless,
of course, it was a miracle.
* ❖
“Peter Simple”: Anyone know of a
more overworked word than “structure ?
Economists are always hammering away
at the “cost-structure”; and a Sydney
County Council spokesman, trying to
excuse the increase in electricity-charges,
somehow managed to nail it to the “rate-
structure.” I thought it the dizzy limit,
however, when* British scientist Sir
William Penney, excusing the umpteenth
postponement of the Maralinga bomb-
test, blamed it on the “wind-structure.”
The day after the bomb was exploded the
“S. M. Herald” described Sir William’s
phrase as “scientists’ jargon” ; and then
in its leading article urged the Prime
Minister to make a complete reorganisa-
tion of the “structure” of his Cabinet!
*> *>
“Terence L”: In Brisbane’s Albert-
street, near King George Square, the
spectacled accordionist sat patiently on
her canvas seat while a speaker held
forth on the wages of sin, and the several
camp-followers, hands clasped in front,
stood respectfully by. A happy drunk
carefully placed his parcel of grog along-
side the accordion-player and cocked a
curious ear. “My friend,” declared the
speaker, “I warn you that unless you
mend your ways you will never know
Heaven —you will be destined for Hell.”
The drunk called out in a sarn.-major-on-
parade-voice, “That’s what I want to
know! Where is Hell? Tell me that!
Where the hell is Hell?” The other
seemed equal to the occasion. “Where?
My friend,” he replied, “I shall tell you
where Hell is. You are in Hell even
now!” “Well, what do you know!” the
drunk ejaculated. “Fancy meeting a bloke
like you in a place like this!”
*
“N.”: Suburban playgoers were
mystified when one of the players lost
balance unaccountably, pitched forward
“Hall !"
and red-faced, regained his position. The
movement had no relation to the play;
a small object found its way from the
wings to the stage and endeavors were
being made to slide it back with a
walking-stick when a violent hook caught
an ankle.
* ❖ ❖
“Geen”- I’ve heard of two chaps at
least who were more adept than “S.C.J.”
at handling unwanted files (B. 26/9/’56).
Onp at RA A F HO got so tired of
?ne of these bad' penuk/that he finally
bunged iMn a large brown envelope,
stamped at his own® expense and posted
it to the Game Warden, Uganda Pro-
tectorate, Central Africa. The other
“I don't need a photo of that one. I can do her from memory."
wizard, a member of his late Majesty s
Colonial Service in a tropical colony, one
day gathered an armful of files, made his
way to the wharves, hired a native boat
and deposited his load in mid-harbor.
That such a one should have been
invalided from the service, and not pro-
moted, is a reflection on the colony s
M.O.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Domain Dan”: On leave in Man-
chester, England, with the R.A.A.F. in
1944, 1 met an hospitable oldster who
wanted to talk about Melbourne, where
he claimed to have had a hectic shore-
leave while serving in a merchantman
some thirty years earlier. He was
delighted to hear that Melbourne was my
home city, and a pleasant natter seemed
in prospect till, in answer to his ques-
tion, I had to disclaim any knowledge
of the Prince’s Bridge Hotel. This
awakened his ill-concealed suspicion-
mine, too, since he claimed that the pub
was in Flinders-street. Our short acquaint-
ance dissolved in mutual distrust. This
week I happened to look up and see the
sign Prince’s Bridge Hotel in letters of
stone above the pub which I’ve always
known as Young and Jackson’s. I wonder
how many Melburnians have noticed the
name.
♦♦♦ *l* *x*
“Zorok”: Australia holds world-
records in various sports ; now, 1 learn
from a certain unintellectual Sydney
weekly, she has the man who claims to
be the world’s biggest eater, an 18st.
Queenslander from Italy, Tony Baloni. It
might sound like boloney, but Tony
reckons he eats more in one week than
most people do in a year. I won’t give the
horrible details of the number of eggs,
etc., he polishes-off as an average break-
fast or lunch, or what he shovelled down
in just over an hour to win an
competition. What does intrigue me,
though, is how he can afford to live like
that—you couldn’t do it on my wage!
*** ♦> ♦>
“DJ.G.”.' For the first time in Aus-
tralia an inter-State debate took place
iiiside prison walls —at Melbourne s
Pentridge, when a prisoner was one of
the three-man Victorian team which
defeated Queensland’s representatives.
More than half of the audience came
from “inside,” and the man who wore
prison-garb was a lifer who, by the tor-
tunes of the draw, had to take the oega-
tive side of the question “That luck plays
a major part in the shaping of a mans
destiny.” The Pentridge debating-team,
incidentally, holds the A-grade shield for
debating in Victoria,
,j 4
. _
“Cobar”: Wireless-licences in Queens-
land total 302,831 as at August 31 1956,
according to the monthly statenient
issued by he P.M.G “ 8““;
land Pocket Year Book, quoted by Kix
(B. 19/9/’56), is sadly out of date, with
293,542 licences Interesting point is that
in the metropoWw- area of Brisbane
hcences total 127,578 Growth this
area is almost twice as fast as in the
country. Does this indicate that cane-
cockies and pineapple-growers are not
as free with their guineas as others.
What will the score be now licences are
555.?
+> ♦**
“lola”: He was closing-up his seaside
cottage for the season, and left a note on
the front step for the milkman: Am
going home tomorrow. Please wake me
so I can pay you.” The next morning he
found a note tucked under the mat:
“Tried to wake you, but only woke three
dogs and four neighbors. See you next
year.”
“Pip Tok”: The almost-impossible feat
of replacing a lost war-medal has been
achieved by First A.I.F. signaller R. R-
Ridge well, of Perth. He wore his Belgian
Croix de Guerre (won at Passchendaele
in 1917) at every Anzac Day parade until
it was lost during the big parade for the
Queen and Duke of Edinburgh in March,
1954, Advertisements failed to secure
its return, but an application through the
Consulate to the Belgian Government
brought a replacement.
* ❖ *l*
“Griff.”: Perth’s latest and smartest
in hostelries, the Knutsford Arms, has
Viscount Knutsford’s coat-of-arms, neatly
turned in aluminium, in the main
entrance —by special permission, o*
course. Opening on Knutsford-street, it
takes its name from the Secretary of
State for Colonies, 1887-92.
* . * ♦♦♦
“Derwent”: Air-guns being classified
dangerous in Tasmania, the old-type
shanghai is coming in again. A lad
walked into a Launceston shop asking
to be served with a pound of fencing-
staples. “Father doing some fencing?
asked the man behind the counter. ‘ Oh,
no,” said the youngster; “I them
for shooting with my shanghai! ’ He
went off with only a lecture on the dangei
of this type of ammunition; and tht
shopkeeper passed on word to the police
who have asked business people to b<
careful in supplying small boys.
❖
They tip me nags which never win,
Brush short hairs down my collar.
Pomade me where I’m wearing thin
And clip me for a dollar!
P. O. M. C.
THE CRITIC
“Alderman Cockle says Sydney aldermen
should not have the sole right to nominate
unemployed pensioners tor the councils Chust
mas-pudding’ list of Christmas-week workers.
As old-age draws near me
And finds me stony-broke,
Largely because, I fear me,
I like my little joke,
I hope l get to know some
Alderman who may
Offer to throw some
Christ mas-pud. my way —
I hope, although l shouldn’,
I’d still be able to
Reject his Christmas pudden
And tell him what to do,
But , trained to criticism,
Alas, alas,
I s’pose I’d say, “No plagiarism ! ’
And let it pass.
N.S.W.
SWILLAM.


■pRIENDS just back from London have
A had their faith shattered in the
dignity of the Mother of Parliaments.
Visiting the Commons they found Mr.
Aneurin Bevan reclining with his feet
up on the table in front of him. Ignoring
him as “only a Socialist, anyway,” they
settled themselves to absorb a little tradi-
tional atmosphere, but gave up when an
immaculately-dressed Prime Minister
entered and had his feet on the table
almost before the rest of him hit his
chair. —“Geep.”
“Narumee”: Melbourne’s dailies are
rolling out admonitory pleas for courtesy
to Olympic visitors; trammies
and salesgirls are most fre-
quently cited, though trammies,
in this modern city, will be
regarded as curiosities, and any
discourtesy labelled “quaint.”
And find a city in any hemis-
phere where salesgirls aren’t
capricious and curt with their
own sex. I’ve been maddened in
London, Edinburgh, Dublin,
Paris, Rome, Calcutta, Berne,
Bombay—and Melbourne—by
blank-faced female assistants
who don’t assist, but natter
about their boy-friends, and,
most frustrating of all, throw a
-single, supercilious glance at the
stupid, patient cows waiting to
spend the money which will
keep them in their jobs, then
pick up their handbags and
Monroe-off in the direction of
the powder-room. A man at the
counter? Service, sweet, civil,
prompt, willing, nay, eager, is
his. With badinage thrown in.
*> ❖ »>
“Spot Nip”: Wah Shing’s
Hobart laundry-sign was of
course removable upon his sad
demise, as reported by “Smithy” (B.
3/10/’56), but that of a compatriot in a
narrow offshoot of Melbourne’s Little
Bourke-street, Celestialravenue, may well
be there for all time: On Hie.
❖ ❖ *i*
“Mike”: The postal rise to fourpence-
a-letter is likely to bring discontent to
those who chase the nimble frogskin by
talking or singing into the microphone.
At one time I was a talks-artist, with a
fan-mail. We fan-mail recipients were
asked to pass such letters on to head-
quarters—a boost where needed—where
further contracts were handed out. When
the letter-rate rose to threepence—Oh,
what a falling-off was there! My fans
seemingly didn’t grudge the two coppers,
but when the G.P.O. demanded three ...!
And now four are demanded —it’s easy to
see that none of the P.M.G.’s personal
mail is fan-mail.
❖ +;♦
“Zake”: If you live in Sydney and
would master the rhumba and the cha-
cha, and learn the difficult art of piloting
your partner across the dance-floor while
walking on your own feet only, a dance-
studio will be delighted to oblige. The
cost is quite modest, too —only £740,
spread over a year, with a bagatelle of
£2OO as deposit if you’re paying on terms.
* ❖ *
“Doynest”: At Ararat (Vic.) centenary
celebrations the city’s first official flag
was unfurled from the Town Hall clock-
tower ; its crest is a Noah’s Ark.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: A famous contralto of yes-
terday never hesitated to alter the words
of a song to suit her top notes. At one
concert, to the greater glory of Ella
Wheeler Wilcox, she sang “Whatever is,
is best” and in the penultimate line “I
shall say as I look back earthwards” sub-
stituted “onwards” for “earthwards.”
Trying to figure out how she’d manage
this contortion gave me a real pain in the
neck.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Herdit”: Demure, in a grey costume,
seated opposite me in the railway-com-
partment, just the wrong side of thirty,
a daughter-of-the-Manse, perhaps; she
answered my conversational gambits
quietly, with a momentary lifting of nice
brown eyes from the journal she was
reading. At the railhead it transpired that
we both had an overnight wait for the
branch-line train. They gave us adjacent
rooms in a long, echoing corridor. Some-
where about midnight pandemonium shat-
tered my sleep: a football-team had
arrived, about a score of husky young
men. Heavy boots tramped about, doors
slammed, snatches of song and extremely
ribald comments were flung to and fro. I
gave them half-an-hour before deciding
on a protest, but before I could shout
the door of the next room swung open
and a very strong and unmistakably-
feminine voice asked: “For the love o’
Mike, aren’t you ruddy hoodlums ever
going to bed?” Silence, then a voice
asked, “Why wasn’t I told there were
dames about?” The girl gave me a half-
smile. “I did three years in the Army,”
she remarked, as if that explained some-
thing.
+*♦
“Ceg”: His correspondence was
limited, and, after laboriously writing his
letter, he gave the stamp several hearty
licks. The gum thereupon disappeared
and the stamp curled up. It was clear
that he had made several other- attempts
to stick it down, and in desperation he
pinned it on, adding the inscription,
“Paid, provided the pin doesn’t come
out.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Russ”: “Keem,” on “cleaners” (B.
12/9/’56), needs to brush-up on social
status. Under its “Situations Vacant” a
Melbourne daily carried the insert:
“Cleaner-Attendant. See advt. this issue
under Professional Engagements—City of
Kew.”
“ Please , George — I'm trying to take a photo!”
“Narumee”: Yes, but, “An Chuidh” (B.
3/10/’56), think of the poor little mixed-
up kids there would be if absolute
phonetic-spelling were put into practice.
Spell-as-you-speak, far from simplifying
school curriculums, would probably lead
to bloody international incidents. For
instance, the ped. from Scotland would
render the opening line of the “Elegy”
thus: “Thuh kurrfu tools thuh nail uff
parrtin dee,” but his class wouldn’t get
spelling-credits from the inspector with
the 8.8. C. accent —he’d see it as: “Thee
karfew toles thee nell ov pahting dey.”
The teacher from Manchester would in-
struct his pupils: “Th’ kurfiew torls th’nel
uv paartin’ daa,” while Dad, struggling
with the homework, being just an ordin-
ary chap, would write: “Thuh kurfyou
toles thuh nelluv partun da.” Better leave
it as wrote by Gray.
♦>
“Nosmo King”: A laborer in a nursery
who was given some boards and asked to
knock-up a few seedling-boxes with a
hammer and a few nails claimed, and
was paid, the award-rate for a carpenter
while so engaged.
*> ❖ *Z*
“Kerba”: The New Australian girl sat
next to me in the train and immediately
became lost in a magazine like one of our
slickest women’s publications. But the
yarn she was reading was headed (from
memory): Marchella le Professions;
Novella di Marguerhite —the rest of the
writer’s name was obscured by the dam-
sel’s thumb. Inset was an obvious beauty-
aid ad., a drawing depicting an open box
of cosmetics. Bold lettering announced:
Seducta Affascinatione. Creme di Holly-
wood. That magic word must get ’em in
over there, too, the heirs of Verdi and
Puccini, and of Giorgione and Botticelli!
♦j>
“Wusslean”: I read out from the paper
a pronouncement by a Harley-street
psychologist, Dr. Eustace Chesser, that
“the happiest marriages are those where
the husband is mildly boss.” Mrs. Wuss-
lean merely paused in the middle of her
fortnightly task of determining how the
contents of my pay-enevelope could best
be apportioned among our creditors, and
observed calmly, “Well, we are happily
married, aren’t we?”
♦>
“Hi-fy”: The traffic-lights changed to
red as the shapely blonde was halfway
across the intersection. An approaching
motorist jumped on the brakes and gave
the stop-signal, allowing her to make it.
She shot him a dazzling smile of thanks,
and he dithered droolingly with his gears,
lapping it up. He then seemed to fall
into a mist of romantic reverie, while,
with green-lights in his favor, traffic
piled-up behind him. A chorus of blaring
horns brought him back to earth, and
with a grate and a lurch he was on his
way, an aura of shattered romance blend-
ing with the blue of his exhaust.
+*+ *x* ❖
“Doric”: Made a horrible faux pas
when visiting Marta Ballantine (shall I
call her?) at a maternity hospital. The
baby was duly displayed by the masked
nurse behind a glass window. “It’s a real
Ballantine,” I said, indicating a likeness
to its proud father. A stranger near by
intervened: “But that’s my kid!”
♦> ♦> ♦>
“Tabba”: “Somebody forgot his hat,”
said the assistant in a Bathurst (N.S.W.)
barber’s shop. The barber walked over
and held the lid by the crown just above
eye-level. “Jack Smith!” he said. He
was right. I’ve tried it since, and found
you can nearly always recognise a hat
that way without the owner below it.
♦Jt «J«
“Old Cynic”: Have often heard
a woman’s work is never done, and after
seeing a woman slicing beans under a
hair-drier and another sitting beside the
open window of a bus shelling peas and
tossing the shells out of the window I
began to wonder. But the sight which
swept away all remaining doubts was a
young miss awaiting her train on the
station platform busily painting her
toenails.
V * r?
“Tabba”: Old Mother Nature’s favor-
ite children are dentists and doctors.
An American research-group has dis-
closed that a cup of tea contains fluorine
in the proportion recommended for add-
ing to drinking-water; but if milk is
added the fluorine is precipitated as cal-
cium fluoride, which is unavailable to the
body.
<£♦
“Magpie”: Mum, creeping about the
bedroom so as not to wake Pa after a
night on duty, slipped and fell down the
stairs. Dad, half-asleep, shot up in the
bed demanding what the so-and-so was
going on, anyway. One of the nips called
out and told him. Still in a coma, Dad
remarked, “She gets up and creeps around
the bedroom thinking that she hasn’t
woken me up, then just as a man’s getting
off, she falls down the stairs! ” It’ll be a
long while before he gets out of the dog-
house.
" . . THAT BLOOMS IN THE
SPRING”
/ would sing in praise
Of the things / raise
In my outer-suburban garden,
lit my hobby engrossed
l may seem to boast ;
Blit you’ll understand, and pardon.
You won’t hear me crow
As some do, I know,
Of soup-plate-diameter dahlia;
Yet I know there come
From my garden some
Of the largest plants in Australia.
I’ve a dock that’s nigh
On nine-feet high,
And still it is madly growing;
Its root is as thick
And as tough as a pick.
What its depth is there’s no knowing.
1 have seen, I swear,
Men stop and stare
With, no doubt, a wish they could
plunder
Such a perfect growth,
And they’d stake their oath
’Twas an unbelievable wonder.
I have never a flop
With my oxalis crop ;
It’s choicer by far than my neighbor’s.
And what makes me so pleased
Is, it’s never diseased.
I get best results with few labors.
There are gardens I’ve seen
Where the aphides have been
Sadly flaccid, anaemic and sickly,
Mine are chockfull of vim,
And in great sucking-trim
As over the glads, they swarm thickly.
There are those who’ll deride
Horticultural pride
Which is not of a kind with their
thinking.
Yet, may not onion-weed
Hold a beauty indeed,
Or a cutworm when daintily drinking ?
Though the rose and sweet-pea
Quite attractive may be,
And the aster evoke admiration,
I’ve a yen for the weed
Which will flower or seed,
For it saves so much damn’ cultivation !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The senior State lost its senior public
servant by the sudden passing of Phil
(Philip Hampden) Roper. Home in East
Lindfield, Sydney, after an exacting
week’s work —though he had high-blood-
pressure, it was not in him to take things
easy—Roper suffered a stroke during the
night and was dead on the Saturday morn-
ing. He belonged to a family which has
served the country well in peace and war.
His father was permanent head of the
Lands Department; a brother, David, sits
on the Supreme Court bench ; another,
George, was known as unofficial leader
of the Country Party after his return,
badly knocked, from the First World
War.
Phil himself went straight from school
into the Registrar-General’s office ; while
there qualified for the Bar and became
legal-officer in Labor and Industry ; was
grabbed by the Commonwealth for the
secretaryship of War Commitments ; and,
back in Sydney from Melbourne, was, at
41, named Under-Secretary of the
Premier’s Department, to which Police
was attached. He worked with three
Premiers, McKell, McGirr and Cahill.
Though he never shared their political
convictions, and they knew it, all three
had the highest opinion of him, and there
was real feeling behind the words in
which Cahill referred to the loss sustained
by the Roper family, the State and him-
self.
Phil Roper had charge of the arrange-
ments for the Queen’s visit to N. S. Wales.
It was a veritable triumph of organisa-
tion ; nothing was lacking. But it took
a great deal out of the devoted man ; as
the sequel suggests, too much.
• •
Back in 1937, when a drawing of Pro-
fessor Walter Murdoch last appeared in
The Bulletin, it was frankly admitted
that this couldn’t be vouched for, “though
it is a good version of the passport photo-
WALTER MURDOCH
graph on which it was based.” The
accompanying one, by Red Moore, was
drawn from life in Perth recently.
The earlier sketch went with a longish
article—one of the fine “Australian
Writers” series running through “The Red
Page.” Walter Murdoch, who is now 82,
was then Professor of English Literature
at the Westralian University, and had
been since 1912; later (1943-47) he be-
came Chancellor of the University; then
Professor Emeritus. His fame as an
essayist has tended to obscure his role
as a teacher, but it is worth repeating what
was said then: “What Professor Murdoch
has taken seriously has always been his
university teaching; the writing, after it
ceased to be a bread-and-butter necessity,
has always been more or less a recrea-
tion. Which is not to say that there is
anything of the idle amateur about his
essays, except, perhaps, the very earliest
of them.”
But his essays have influenced a wide
public, through the sundry books pub-
iished and through his newspaper
columns: “As an essayist Walter Mur-
doch is probably most notable for the
fact that he is always saying something
—and that that is unusual anyone addicted
to reading in this literary form will
heartily agree.”
“J.D.W.”: Out of a field of 42, includ-
ing entries from Australia and Britain,
Nelson College (N.Z.) has chosen Basil
Wakelin, principal of Linwood High
School, Christchurch, to succeed H. V.
Earle, retired since May. Now 44, a
Master of Arts with honors in English
and French, Nelson’s new head got his
education at Whangarei High School and
Auckland University College. In Hitler’s
stoush he was 2/i.c. an armored regi-
ment, returning as Lieutenant-Colonel.
Military training has been his main non-
academic interest; he commanded the
Third Armored Regiment till policy
changes brought its disbandment earlier
in the year.
• •
It seemed in Melbourne last week as
though the A.N.Z. Bank had scooped its
rivals with the opening of its branch at
the Olympic Village at Heidelberg—Aus-
tralian banks now are as competitive and
on the ball as they once were stately.
The A.N.Z., though, got pride of place in
the Village because it is the official bank
for the organising-committee; and
Charles Rennie, the bank’s senior
relieving-officer, took-over because of his
seniority, not his knowledge of European
languages. Most of his service with the
A.N.Z. has been in Victoria and Tas-
mania, but he was in the London office
for six months and attended the Adminis-
trative Staff College at Henley-on-Thames
which is chiefly designed for those in
commerce and industry—Sir Douglas
Copland is now establishing an Aus-
tralian counterpart —with a sprinkling of
bankers.
• •
“Pip Tok”: Douglas Bader’s reception
in Perth was a refreshing contrast to
the sort of publicity given to another
English visitor —rock-’n’-roll addict Tony
Moynihan—by sections of the press here
in Westralia and in
the eastern States.
Bader, accompanied
by Mrs. Bader, and
visiting on business
for his firm, called
on four lads of the
Clontarf Boys’ Home
(they were injured in
an accident a year
ago) and on limbless
ex - servicemen at
their headquarters in
Perth, attended civic
receptions and made
a number of humor-
ous speeches. The
Baders expressed
amazement at the
public’s interest in
them. The civic re-
ception in Perth, the
first to be given at
the orchestral shell
in the Supreme
Court Gardens,
attracted quite a
football-crowd ; and
almost as many
lined the streets to
see the Baders on
their way to the
reception at Fre-
mantle Town Hall as
assembled during
the Royal visit in
1954. Mrs. Bader
said in Fremantle that, after Paul Brick-
hill’s Reach for the Sky had been filmed,
English youngsters cultivated a limp like
Bader’s,
• •
_ .. , ~
Fitz”: Every so often he would
bounce up The Bulletin stairs a sturdy
cove, dark, wearing a battered felt-hat,
a dull-grey suit, and a sometime-
damaged boko. He looked like a retired
bruiser, talked with the speed of a side-
show spruiker, and was for ever cheerful,
He sold typewriters, booked orders for
Briton’s beer and somebody’s wines,
hawked encyclopaedias and canvassed for
an insurance-firm.
Everybody in the Sydney newspaper
world, from copy-boys to managing-
editors, knew and liked him. He had an
extraordinary fondness for the company
of Inky Wayfarers. So much so that,
when he was in business as a money-
lender, he could not bring himself to ask
for the return of money they had
borrowed from him. He always reckoned
the writers and artists on his books busted
his career as a Shylock.
His name was William John Rock, and
he died at Curl Curl (N.S.W.) the other
day at the age of 73. A Sydneysider most
of his life, he moved for many years in
the society of the poor of Darlinghursl
and thereabouts. He came into contact
with most of~them through an unofficial
“court” which it was his whim to con-
duct with a friend for the settlement of
the domestic troubles of strangers. His
newspaper friends coaxed him to write a
novel, Today We hive, about his
Darlinghurst experiences, which Angus
and Robertson published, and for which
Lennie Lower wrote the foreword. His
debtors saw that the book had a “good
press.”
Bill Rock had wit, and answered just
about perfectly the requirements of “a
good mixer,” but when he put pen to
paper he was as sedate as a church-
warden. Peter R-ose, the hero of his
novel, was a decorous character. Once
or twice, I remember, there was promise
of more lively happenings; as, for
example, when hero Peter accosted a
girl on a ferry, kissed her before they
reached Manly and took her to his
Darlinghurst flat. But no; all he did
was to give her a spelling-test (“in which
she fared badly”) and some old copies
of St. Elmo, Infelice and Lady Audley’s
Secret.
• •
At 42, J. R. Ennis, Old Fortian,
Bachelor of Economics and War II
D.F.C., becomes Coca-Cola Export Cor-
poration’s regional manager for Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, Fiji, New Caledonia
and New Guinea —the first Australian to
fill the job. Most of his R.A.A.F. pilot-
ing was with 454 Squadron, in the Middle
East and Italy.
• •
The Prime Minister’s big brother Frank
Gladstone (their father was Vic. M.L.A.
for Lowan and sadly misjudged the
infants’ destinies) Menzies has been
lifting his tenor to his heart’s content since
he retired as Crown Solicitor last year.
“Now I can sing,” he said when he quit,
at 63, and he is in great demand as soloist
at church gatherings and weddings. The
Melbourne music-critics haven’t reported
on him (possibly because they don’t go to
church; or, at least, not to the same
church), but competent judges say he
could have been a concert-singer. He
won a South-street (Ballarat) prize when
he was 42.
He was the youngest-ever Crown
Solicitor when he was appointed at 34
years, and he gave sound advice to a suc-
cession of Victorian Governments for 29
years. Victorian Crown Solicitors are a
long-lived lot; when he retired there had
been only four in 113 years. As soon as
he left office last year, he went off to
South Africa at the invitation of the
Southern Rhodesians to advise, with
others, on where the capital should be.
He and his colleagues unanimously
advised the citizens to leave it where it
was, at Salisbury.
Between arias he spares a thought for
the Capel Court group of investment-
companies (Australian Foundation,
National Reliance, etc.), to whose boards
he was invited by Staniforth Ricketson
(chairman of J. B. Were and Son, and
himself a sturdy churchman) when he
retired from the public service.
• •
Interested visitor to Perth’s Royal Show
this year, Boer War veteran Jack Lindsay
was the pioneer (in 1905) of Wyalkat-
chem, and the first (in 1907) to harvest a
wheat-crop in the district. Appropriately,
he represented the district in the Westra-
lian Assembly, and was Minister for
Works in Sir James Mitchell’s last
Ministry.
• •
Back from the U.K. by sea, Air-
Commodore Ulex Ewart (retired) brings
word that Britain still leads in funda-
mental research in aircraft, although the
practical application of findings is a
slow and exacting business. At the
Farnborough pageant he saw final ver-
sions of planes which he had seen in the
wooden-model phase of development as
far back as 1947-48, when he was A.O.C.
Australian Forces in Europe. Ewart was
a 1921-vintage Duntrooner who switched
to the R.A.A.F. a couple of years later.
Director of Personal Services when War
II started, he held a string of administra-
tive jobs during the war, and later estab-
lished and was first Commandant of the
R.A.A.F. Staff College.
• •
Everyone has seen the documentary
newsreel in which the narrator uses a
map to illustrate his subject. It may be
the route of an air-race, the path of a
disastrous tornado, or the proposed
location of an oil-pipeline ; a black line
will snake across the map so as to give
the audience a clearer idea of it. That
same technique, and a thousand other
variations of the graphic art, will be used
in the A.B.C.s television-service when it
begins early next month.
The man who will look after this
important aspect is William Kennard,
who was a natural for the job of senior
graphics-designer. The film-industry was
GRAPHICS-EXPERT
the nursery and forcing-ground of this
highly-specialised craft, and Kennard
grew up with the British film. Tricks-
of-the-trade he picked up at Elstree and
Pinewoods stood him in good stead when
he transferred to the 8.8. C., in whose
television-service he graphic-designed for
six years.
• •
Robert Gillman Allen Jackson, knighted
for his work as chairman of the prepara-
tory commission for the Gold Coast Volta
River Dam, was born in Melbourne 45
years ago, joined the R.A.N. in 1929 as
a paymaster-cadet, was transferred to the
Naval Staff in Malta in 1937, and when
war hit the Mediterranean showed his bent
for the organisation of supply. An
appointment in Cairo looking after the
Middle East Supply Centre —it controlled
all civilian supplies—followed, and since
then he’s had a string of top-level jobs,
including several for U.N.R.R.A., calling
for his special talents. Commander Jack-
son, a tall, well-groomed, pleasant fellow,
was sketched for The Bulletin by
Dubois in 1947.
• •
Grounded permanently in his home
State, Westralian Air-Commodore M. 0.
Watson has completed 2>\\ years Army
and Air service, of which the last 27 were
with the R.A.A.F. Born in Perth, he went
into the .R.M.C., Duntroon, in 1925, and
transferred to the R.A.A.F. in 1929. For
the past three years he has been A.O.C.
Western Area. His successor, Group-
Captain R. H. Davis, is a 44-year-old
Sydneysider who was educated in Bris-
bane and joined the R.A.A.F. in 1933.
Before receiving his present appointment,
he was Administration Staff-Officer at
Home Command, Sydney. In command
of No. 1 (Hudson) Squadron, he was in
action against the Japanese invasion-fleet
off the coast of Malaya, a few hours after
Pearl Harbor. In Java he took over No. 8
Squadron aircraft, and also R.A.F. planes,
in last attacks on the Japanese before
being taken prisoner. His war-service
earned him the 0.8. E.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Barnet, Herts. (Eng.), at 95, Charles George
Scott, an original director of The Western Stores
and one of the founders of R. H. Gordon and
Co., Ltd., Sydney. Born at Bathurst (N.S.wJj
he took a keen interest in his early days in
racing, and had some notable horses running m
that district.
In Sydney, at 82, Charles Calvert Nelson,
senior partner in the firm of Mark, Mitchell ana
Nelson, solicitors. Admitted in 1896, ana
practising till within a week of his death.
In Brisbane, at 65, H. H. Lyle, ohairman ot
directors of Queensland Machinery Compan}-
In Melbourne, Henry Tandy, founder of the
Adelaide chocolate- and confectionery-making
firm of H. H. Tandy, Ltd. Also chairman ot
directors of Life Savers (Aust.), Ltd.
At 103, at Hobart, Mary Gubbins-Brown.
Born at New Norfolk, she taught school in tn
Speck until age forced retirement about 40
years ago.
In Sydney, at 71, Walter Brookhouse (Wally)
Reynolds, one of the last of the tent showmen
Born at Nottingham (Eng.), he came to Aus-
tralia as an analytical chemist, joined the rirs
A.1.F., was one of the original Digger Concer
Party that appeared before George V at Bucking-
ham Palace, and, buck in Australia, created
Mac’s Follies; the show toured annually nom
Albury to Mackay for more than 30 years.
During War II he organised the Martin Place
(Sydney) pageants for Loan appeals.


[r saVs that
Th£K&S A tGPUPG of Ch/n j£S£ BALJLET-'6*R.t->S
£?C*v\<N& To . *
v £ £££ THS KoSSIaM OAU.&T* HAS
A GREAT Success
//
(N UO *
*• r
L OHL-y WISH U>£ HAP som£ of
THOSB SAU*£T - &IR.L.&
HER£ To PAy . "
BRING ON THE DANCING-GIRLS!


ABORIGINALITIES
CO “Byramine” doesn’t think R. S.
Porteous knew how to throw a mickey
(B. 26/9/’56)! Any stockman worth his
salt will throw a beast from the saddle
as Porteous described. If he does get
off to throw him it’s dollars to peanuts
that the stockman will throw both arms
about its hind-leg, or possibly, particularly
with a large beast, lie down with a foot
pushing the underneath leg forward, just
above the hock, and one or two hands
pulling the upper leg back towards him,
generally holding just above the hoof. I
admit the popularity and effectiveness of
pulling the tail between the hind-legs, but
it’s not quite as safe as the way described
by Porteous. And hats off to him for
giving us a dinki-di Australian yarn with-
out the senseless trappings of the usual
“Western.”—“Clunesman.”
* * * *
“Clem”: It’s nice to see us getting so
folklore-conscious. In the hardware-
department of a city store the other day
I came across a “Waltzing Matilda”
barbecue; had every gadget bar the
jumbuck!
“Kelvin”: Argument on
probable reactions of the
Australian community fo
television reminds me of
when my elderly Uncle Dan,
from the Mitta Mitta (Vic.),
was taken to see his first
talkie in the city. The old
boy, who had somehow
managed to avoid seeing a
single silent picture, appeared
unimpressed by the late A 1
Jolson. But when, in the
supporting picture, a hillbilly
gentleman gave an exhibition
of hog-calling and brought
several outsize porkers
scampering to him, Uncle
Dan’s delighted ejaculation:
“Look at the bloody pig!”
was greeted with hilarious
acclaim by the other occu-
pants of the stalls, though
it led to his being quietly
but firmly ejected by an
unappreciative management.
Uncle D. attended only one
other talkie, and, finding no
porcine hero, denounced them all as
“takedowns.”
* * * *
“Pillo”: Something of a change to
hear the Australian dingo praised, and
by two British dog-judges at that.
Colonel H. F. Whitehead and Mr. Vernon
Hirst claim that dingoes have both the
intelligence and poise to match Alsatians,
and could easily become the war-dogs of
the future. The judges could foresee the
possibilities of training dingoes as a new
Australian master - species. Colonel
Whitehead would like to hear from any
one who has trained dingoes.
Jji * $
“Curio”: One does not need to go
back to 1910, “Agricola” (B. 26 /9 / ’56),
for notes on uranium’s worthlessness.
Campbell’s Simple Tests for Minerals
(published by Angus and Robertson in
1933) says of uranium that it “is not an
abundant ore, nor is it important.”
Immediately preceding that is a note on
titanium, which says that “the only ore
we need describe is rutile,” and adds: “It
is of no value.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Scratch a sulphur-crested
cockatoo on the bean at this time of the
year and you’ll be pardoned for thinking
that the bird has been vain enough to
have been dusting himself with talc.
Cocky seems to dispense with the usual
avian practice of moulting; is it, then,
that this exudation of powder is old Sul-
phur’s answer to the high cost of dry-
cleaning?
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Natanielu, the village
policeman of Badu, some 40 miles n.-w.
of Thursday Island, was a large and
kindly soul, always strongly conscious of
his office, though he exercised it on com-
paratively rare occasions. Catching a mis-
creant red-handed while he was off duty
and clad only in the lava-lava of
his civilian attire he would sternly
enjoin the offender to remain on
the spot, which said offender would
dutifully do until Natanielu, clad
in the majesty of his uniform, re-
turned to make the arrest. Most of
Natanielu’s law-enforcement duties had
to do with tribal statutes relating to
amorous peccadilloes, but he was no fool
as a sleuth. Before a Native Court he
would, with piquant detail, describe a
liaison in such detail that a stranger
might have believed the constable had
been a witness. He did it all by track-
signs.
* * * He
“Bookie’s Dog”: That story of “Patto”
(B. 3/10/’56) took me back to ’44 and
the big swy-game behind the canteen at
the 12-mile peg down the highway from
Darwin. Bloke alongside me one night
watched the game for a while, then sud-
denly asked me if I’d toss him for six-
pence. I called, and lost. An hour later,
he had run that shilling into £l6. At that
"Well, I suppose those backroom-boys cant think of everything."
stage I went up to the canteen for a cup
of coffee. When I returned, I asked how
he was holding. “Done the lot,” he said
unemotionally. “How was the coffee?”
I said it was good. “Could do with a cup,
myself,” he said. “Got a zack to spare?”
# , *
“Gyro-Joe”: Have a copy of that
heavy tome the 1881 edition of Household
Management, by Mrs. Isabella Beeton,
and “H.A.L.’s” par. (B. 26/9/’56) set me
thumbing through chapters on French,
German, Italian, American, Indian and
Australian cookery. In the Australian
dishes she gives recipes for kangaroo-tail
soup, roast-wallaby, fricasseed- or
“Up a shade on your right, Jim."
curried-kangaroo and parrot-pie. As to
wages in Australia (1881), Mrs. B. say.:
“It may be reckoned that the pay of a
female servant is quite doubled when they
emigrate. A good cook can easily com-
mand £4O to £5O a year....”
* * * *
“Geep”: Since “Archaen,” some
months back, wound-up a series of pars
on the subject here, I have come across
a further coco-de-mer story. Chinese
Gordon spent some time in the Seychelles
Archipelago, and while inspecting the
colony’s defences in 1881 he visited
Praslin Island, where the palm grows
most prolifically. As a keen student of
the Bible, the General convinced himself
that this island was the original site of
the Garden of Eden, that the coco-de-mer
was indeed the Tree of Knowledge and
the breadfruit the Tree of Life. Gordon
left several unpublished monographs
explaining his theory, which was, of
course, based on more than simply the
existence of the coco-de-mer. His
discovery of a small serpent in the palm<
grove, for instance,
* * * *
“Burr Imul”: “Kerba’s” par. (B,
i9/9/’56) reminded me that there is an
alcoholic brew made from the gumtree,
though the manufacturers would be in-
suited to hear it called “jungle-juice.” One
of the good things Mussolini did for Italy
was to drain the Pontine marshes. Aus-
tralian eucalypts were planted, and these
are now capable of stirring the hearts of
Australian tourists on a warm summer's
day. The monks of a monastery oqtside
Rome make a liqueur out of the young
leaves. Called eucalyptino, it has quite a
delicate flavor. It is not unlike benedic-
tine, not surprising if, as I think, its
makers are of the same order.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Cleaning-up to move, a
Tasmanian family came across a century-
old copper token (1850), issued by
Joseph Moir, “wholesale and retail iron-
mongery establishment, Hobart Town,”
with an inscription on the reverse that
it was payable on demand for one penny
at Economy House, Hobart. Moir came
to the Speck in the early ’thirties, and
carried on business as a builder and con-
tractor. He erected the old shot-tower
at Hobart, from which the first shot was
dropped about 1870 ; built of freestone,
160ft. high, it is still standing, and has
lately been acquired as a tourist
attraction.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: In deep water
financially, a country medico ticked-up
£31 10s. for “refreshments” before Bung
refused further credit. When Bung’s
rural Redcraze staked itself, Doc. chloro-
formed the prad on the front lawn and
did a pretty good surgical job before an
enthralled audience hanging over the
front fence. His professional services
cost Bung just thirty-guineas!
* * * *
A STUDENT of ornithology would be
at home with Perth’s State-owned
transport-system.
At seven in the morning the East Perth
barn disgorges trams and trolleys, which
swarm noisily along the roads like a
flock of sparrows and starlings, to skip
back and forth all day between city and
suburbs, chirruping cheekily with bell
and horn for the right-of-way. Then,
weary after a full day’s work, at sun-
down one by one last trips are made
before wending their way back to the
shelter of the barn.
Now it is time for the buses, like big
night-owls, to sally forth. Till midnight
they quickly and more quietly go their
predatory ways, gorging on human loads
to fill capacious bellies, and when the
last theatre-crowds have been swallowed-
up they doze for a few hours, setting
forth again at the first glimmer of dawn
for a final foray.
When the sun peeps over the Darling
Ranges night is done for these nocturnal
prowlers, so then they in turn make for
the barn to sleep and leave the day-
skirmishings for their noisy fellows, the
trams and trolley-buses.
C. A. L.
PRAWNY JIM
*7 sit alone in me prawny boat, and wait
for the tide to turn,
Lashed to a stake at Colmesley Beach,
where the two red lead-lights burn.
1 sit and l think of the coves that work
in the offices and banks.
Now, don't you reckon that kind of life
would give a man the cranks ? .
Their stummicks are full of ulcers and
things, peculiar kinds of ills;
And they mostly live on bicarbonate,
and lettuce, and little pills.
By cripes, if they was to come down here
and wade a while in the bog
They’d eat a bullocky and his team, and
chase his flaming dog.
If they was to lay on their backs a while,
where the old black ripples lap,
Where the mullet jump in the shallows
and land again with a slap ;
If they was to push the scissors along, and
feel the dinghy butt
(With a hurricane-lamp hung over the
bow, and the towline round their
gut),
Would they go back to the office again, to
their pens, and ledgers and files,
To trams and trains and buses and baths,
and worried looks on their dials ?
Or would the office see them once, with
a catfish-eel in their kit
To wrap it around the boss’s neck, before
they finally quit ?
Fair dinkum, the cows have got me wet,
how they’ll sit in a six-be-four
When they know the little sandpipers go
a-ca-ntering over the shore !
Ah, ’struth! they clunno what living is.
But who am I to care ?
Why should I worry me flaming head
about the blokes that stare
Wondering to see me so peaceful here,
where the buoy-bound cutters ride,
Waitin’ around in me prawny boat for
the turning of the tide ?”
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. SCOTT.


THOSE postmarks illustrating “Fifty
Years of Mail” (B. 19/9/’56) recalled
the most novel postmark I’ve seen. An
acquaintance had a keen imagination and
a new angle on philately. King Edward
VIII had abdicated and George VI re-
cently been crowned ; the philatelist stuck
a stamp of each reign on a self-addressed
envelope and sent it to a certain Austra-
lian town to be franked and returned.
When I next saw the two stamps they
held pride of place in his album ; the
postmark was very clear, and indisput-
able : the place-name on it was The
Brothers. —“Sackville.”
*’* * *
“E. & 0.E.”: The name Blessington for
a small village in north-east Tasmania
had always interested me, with its sugges-
tion of the famous Lady Blessington of
Regency days. How far removed it
seemed from any possible connection with
her! I now find that in 1840 a man named
Power was Surveyor-General in Van Die-
man’s Land, and an administrator for the
Lands Department, with presumably some
say in place-names. Power was Lady
Blessington’s brother.
**V * •
“Blufire”: At a Melbourne Show
chemist’s shop a customer wanted a
bottle of hair-oil. “Any particular
brand?” he was asked. “Oh, no,” he
said. “My horse isn’t fussy. It’s to shine
his tail before he faces the judges.”
* * * *
“Mulga Mick”: One that would have
gone well in that collection of postmarks
was a variety that was in general use in
outback Queensland half a century ago.
All those Cobb and Co. coaches, officially
or otherwise, were travelling post-offices,
every driver a postmaster. A drover or
a boundary-rider would give the driver
a letter to post, with a stamp on it. The
stamp had to be defaced. So he simply
took the top of his pipe-bowl, gave it a
twist while pressed against the stamp
and it would be franked as well as if it
had gone to the post-office.
* * * *.
“H.W.”: In the days when New
Zealand acres were sold for Is. 3d. an
acre, many Maoris who had rushed to
sell out were without sustenance. This
was one of the reasons for the continual
unrest. On May 23, 1838, the Kororareka
Association was formed to protect law-
abiding settlers and property, and enforce
law and order. Each member provided
himself with a good musket and bayonet,
a brace of pistols, a cutlass and 30 rounds
of ball cartridges. A debtor refusing to
pay was liable to a horse-whipping from
his creditors. Several serious offenders
suffered the extreme penalty of the
unwritten law —three good coats of
tarring and feathering, plus being “run
out.” If no feathers were available, fluff
from raupo-reeds was the substitute.
There was no jail, so the culprit spent
waiting-time in an old sea-chest. Gilbert
Mair acted as president. The association
was dissolved in 1840, when Lord Glenelg,
in the crowded Kororareka church,
promoted the appeal for an N.Z. Consul.
Captain Hobson then read the Queen’s
Proclamation extending the limits of the
colony of N. S. Wales to include New
Zealand. The church had been erected in
1835 by Gilbert Mair at a cost of £250,
plus 325. for painting it and adding lock
and key. The church, scarred from the
bullets of Heke’s rebellion, still stands
and is visited by all comers to the historic
Bay of Islands.
* * * *
“Kelvin”: Cause of decease on a death-
certificate compiled by a Torres Straits
Island native teacher being “septic
poisoning,” the M.O. was asked by the
police-magistrate to conduct a post-
mortem. The finding: No trace of
poison ; cause of death, senility. Asked
why he had shown the cause as septic-
poisoning, the dusky dominie said
proudly. “I bin pind ’im in the dickashin-
nary! ’E look proper good, so I pinish
write ’im down.”
* * s *
“Nor’ Easterner”: I know some men
who after running over the dial with an
electric-razor stiff use a cutthroat to
clean-up corners and angles which they
don’t seem to be able to manage other-
wise. One old-timer of my acquaintance,
a veteran of World War I, won’t have
anything else but the cutthroat —and he
uses a pair at once, working with one in
each hand in symmetrical sweeps of the
blade that could almost be set to music.
* * * *
“Bo”: The bush is replete with the
elusive, from the bloke who can curse for
eight minutes without repetition to the
alleged septuagenarian wizard still able
to put up 80 panels of one-rail fence
from dawn to dusk: Most elusive of
the lot is the tree the prospector blazed
to mark the rich reef he had stumbled
on, the secret of which he left as a legacy
to his cobber. There are hundreds of
such arboreal monuments to man’s
asininity waiting for some eagle-eyed
optimist to find them ; but nary a one
is ever come across.
* * * *
“Maitri”: This year feathery primulas
have sprung up all over the garden, so
that we gaze at daffodils and freezias
through a mauvy haze. Everywhere in
the district we come across them —how
curious that everybody should decide to
plant them this season when they’ve just
growed-up at our place! Visiting friends, I
praised their gay primula border which
lined the path along the 100 ft. leading to
the front-porch. “We didn’t plant them,”
they informed me. “We’ve put no
primulas in the garden since 1941. Here’s
another strange thing. See these French
marigolds on this side of the path? Last
year they were on the opposite side:
they must have been dissatisfied with the
situation and just hopped across.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I’ve lived in the
bush, off and on, most of my life, and
though I’ve found plenty of snake- and
lizard-sloughs, I’d never seen the act of
shedding the skin until the other day,
“ Look—a flying-carpet !"
when I was keeping as still as possible
so as not to disturb the pair of wagtails
I was watching. .Neither the birds nor
the snake seemed to see me or each other,
and the first I saw of Joe was when he
glided up to the base of a small shrub
and rubbed his chin against the rough
bark until he’d torn the skin. A bit
more bf the same treatment soon got it
off his head, and then he turned away
from the shrub and settled down to back-
wards and forwards—almost a rocking
—movement on the ground. Each for-
ward movement took him an inch or so
further out of the skin, which peeled off
inside-out like a glove. I may never
witness that again, but if 1 do I’ll try
“ Sweetie , can't you Wait until I finish the damn incinerator ?”
to get a better view of the early stages.
I’d like to see the head come off. You
know, a snake’s completely encased in
scales, those over the eyes being trans-
parent
SjC %
“Hi-Fy”: You can get a glow up
slowly, as “Nidus” suggested (B.
29/8/’56), or pass out with a bump on
Continental firewater. Before War II the
heaviest kick of all was delivered by
Royal Navy-issue rum, which was 40 de-
grees overproof, or 79.8 per cent, alcohol.
A good brandy goes up to 75 per cent.,
and is on a par with Vodka Montrosa and
Swiss Absinthe. Absinthe is made by
steeping the flowers and leaves of worm-
wood, star-anise and fennel in pure
alcohol, with angelica-root for flavoring
—something similar to making scent;
which explains, perhaps, why alcoholics
take to perfume, almost pure alcohol.
Arrack, the knockout-drops of the Far
East, is made from the fermented juice,
known as palm-toddy, drawn from the
flower of the palmyra-palm and coconut-
palm of Ceylon; haphazard and un-
hygienic methods of production introduce
dangerous stomach-irritants and nerve-
poisons. Most of the fruit-brandies —
apricot, peach, etc. —are around the 40-50
per cent. mark. If you want to live longer
and walk straighter there’s a lot to be
said for good old beer.
“Mackville”: Not ignorance or snob-
bery, but experience and monotony are
the reasons for the humble plum’s
failure to attain epicurean approval (B.
3/10/’56). If there is any other fruit-
tree that thrives under so little attention
and bears with such amazing bounty —
well, it never grew in any of the haunts
of my gluttonous youth. Result: every
kid utterly and completely sated with
plums by the time he reached the age of
eleven. Mothers, seeking to avoid sinful
waste, either preserved the scorned fruit
or made it into jam. Until the last one
in the double-rank of brownpaper-sealed
jars had been emptied, no other jam decor-
ated a hunk of dodger. So were plum-
spurners made. And once a plum-spurner,
always a plum-spurner; even to the
station-cook who, according to the old
legend, ordered three cases of jam, but
added to the note an afterthought: “Bar
plum.” The cases arrived. Across the
invoice was written: “Never heard of
‘bar’ plum, but have sent one case of
greengage, one of blood-plum, and one
of Victoria.”
* * * *
“J. 8.”: We were rattling along in
the blitz-buggy, with Bill pointing out
the local sights. “That’s where Wattle-
bender Jones lives, over there,” he said,
jerking his thumb over his shoulder. Bill
launched into a long rigmarole about
Jones’s exploits in running cattle. “But,”
we asked when we could get a word in,
“why is he called Wattlebender Jones?”
“You’d soon know if you saw him,” Bill
replied; “he’s that bow-legged from
being on a horse all his life. He’ll go
straight through anything, and the boys
reckon they can always tell where Wattle-
bender’s been mustering. When he takes-
off after cattle up in that timbered
country you can see the trees bent like
this () where he went through.”
* / * * *
“Cog”: The American clock (B.
19/ 9/’56) that used to cost around £1
some 50 to 75 years ago, wooden-cased
as a Roman temple of black imitation
marble, or in a variety of gable-cases with
glass doors that showed the swinging
pendulum, is so famous that no clock-
making country in the world would dream
of competing with it in its class. It intro-
duced stamped wheels, and a striking-
movement of bent wires that you would
hardly trust more than a year. I took one
of these movements out of its old case
two years ago and made a cedar case for
it. The date on the frame was 1905 ; it
has never been near a clock-repairer, and
it’s still keeping good time.
“Swan River”: That American clock
which has been going for 63 years
(B. 19/9/’56) is to be admired, but pen-
dulum-clocks are like that. Every time 1
go into Hay-street, Perth, I check my
wristlet-watch by a clock which, until
recently, had a public record of 80 years
—the pendulum-clock in the tower of
Perth Town Hall, going strong again after
some slight repairs of a year or so ago.
When made of honest old-fashioned
brass, with springs of genuine carbon
steel, and given an occasional touch of
line oil, a pendulum-clock should go for
a couple of centuries, the only wearing
parts being the escapement-cam or
-trigger and the wheel which the cam
engages. The modem balance-wheel
escapement can never last any great time,
since its action as a regulator depends on
two very line points which suspend the
shaft of the wheel in a couple of counter-
sinks. In time these points wear blunt,
while a groove wears in the bottom oi
the countersink which causes the wheel
to drop and jamb. That is why the cheap
alarm-clocks so common in the Austra-
lian outback a few decades ago seldom
lasted more than five years, and not all
the dipping in kero, or benzine could in-
duce them to tick again.
WINTER DAY
The day’s white darkness looms
Like snow not fallen ;
A tongueless bell, the sky,
With no sun tolling.
The globe rolled, but no day rose
To usher the gold in,
And the grey hills of the night
Go on unfolding.
Something waits and listens —
Dim and subhuman,
Hears in the Arctic silence
Antiquity murmur. .
This is the hibernation
Of all that crawls,
Sheathing the roads and chimneys,
Muffling the walls.
Smoke is a batwing shadow,
Oozing and sombre,
Painting its graver layer
On the penumbra . . .
The ear craves a sudden salvo ;
Eyes shrink in the mineral light;
Fingers tear from the calendar —
No day—but a white night.
N.S.W.
THE LMA FORSHAW.


(gHOTIMH© «* i mi) >OXI
S'
S'
ZL
yp
Q
?E>-
1
N 7
ft\i
COVt
irr
3
C 3
■" ' p. - •:
o
o<
\‘s&
3)
<ri
? 0
O
iaps/*
EN
?>■>
-tiai.
>os
5 •■ >
a ji
73
s
®
ow
©
-» a-*
SJ.
'■>£>., Ar>
t> »0
In Old Bond Street, at the very heart of
London’s quality tradition, is the home of
Benson & Hedges. Here, for close on a
century, Benson & Hedges have quietly
pursued their task of providing cigarettes
made of the finest of fine tobaccos, blended
with superb skill and care.
It is this unchanging, unswerving regard
for quality which still makes these famous
Benson & Hedges cigarettes, in the familiar
red tin, the choice of those smokers whose
concern is with quality first and not with
price.
For, after all, what do a few pence matter
when smoking is to be a real enjoyment and
pleasure—ivhen only the best will do?
•IN SON ft HEDGES LTD
1 Buckingham
Palace
2 Horse Guards
3 Admiralty
4 Duke of York
Statue
5 Nelson's Column
6 Wellington Arch
and St. George's
=s/
X
X
Benson a** Hedges
OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
UNITED DOMINIONS
CORPORATION
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL £500,000
ASSETS EXCEED £1,750,000
Directors:
E. A. LLOYD (Chairman)
H. R. BEARDSMORE W. J. V. WINDEYER
General Manager:
J. J. HALL
SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
Rate of Interest
Term
6£% 3 years
6% 2 years
5J% 12 months
5% 9 months
Interest payable quarterly—free of exchange.
APPLY TO
ANY MEMBER OF THE SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
OR
COMPANY’S HEAD OFFICE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL BUILDING
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Box 4515, G.P.O. ’Phone 8W4828
Business. Rollery. Etc.
SUEZ AND AUSTRALIAN TRADE
DURING the Budget debate
on October 3, Roy Wheeler,
M.P. for Mitchell, put it to the
Representatives that Australia
should be able to take-up most
of the slack arising out of
the disturbance to trade between
Europe and Asia as a result of
the Suez dispute.
It seems that the day is
coming, he said, when the Suez
Canal will not be open freely for
use at an economical rate. This
waterway has dominated Aus-
tralia’s thinking for many years,
but a closer examination indi-
cates that its loss need not be
such a disaster for Australian
trade as might at first be thought.
The loss of the Suez Canal will
increase the distance by sea
between Australia and Europe
by 800 miles. To compensate
for that, however, the situation
that will arise promises sub-
stantial benefits to Australia in
trade with Asia and with the
Middle East if we gear our over-
seas commercial machine to take
advantage of those opportunities.
The real problem of going
round the Cape is not so much
the extra mileage involved as
the fact that the distance is
largely an unproductive haul for
cargo. It involves a long sea-run
without ports. However, Aus-
tralia’s traditional policy of
living by exporting raw materials
to Europe and importing manu-
factures in return has already
lost a great deal of its attrac-
tion. One has only to look at our
recurring crises in foreign ex-
change and continually increas-
ing import-restrictions to realise
the truth of that statement.
Great Britain, which is Aus-
tralia’s principal market,
become unprofitable because it
will take a big proportion off our
commodities only at an unpay-
able price to our producers. To
get that export trade, Wheeler
contends, we buy from Great
Britain a much greater
volume of imports at prices
very often above what we
would have to pay elsewhere.
The combination of low export
prices and high import prices is
steadily driving Australia into
bankruptcy in international
trade. However much goodwill
we may feel towards Great
Britain, the situation is one which
must have its limitations in the
interests of both countries.
A reassessment of our whole
trade, said Mr. Wheeler, if it
were not overdue before the
Suez crisis, is certainly warranted
now in the light of recent events.
The Minister for Trade (Mr.
McEwen) has labored long and
earnestly to obtain a new deal
from Great Britain in respect of
our contracts; but Wheeler
couldn’t see how Great Britain
can give Australia anything
worth while when the trade of
the two countries is no longer
complementary as it used to be.
Europe, and principally Great
Britain, must remain our market
and supplier for a long time to
come, but it is time we recast our
thoughts to include a larger
share of trade with countries in
our half of the world. If the
situation at Suez forces us to
make a reassessment it may be a
blessing in disguise.
If we are alert we should
devote ourselves to some solid
“After-Suez” thinking in order
to gain trade-advantages rather
than suffer the disaster which so
many anticipate and predict. If
we face the realities of trade at
the moment, nothing is to be
gained by bemoaning the loss
of the use of the Suez Canal
and what that loss might mean
to the United Kingdom.
Mr. Wheeler added: “There
is a wide field for trade-
promotion to our north. If, by
virtue of the upheavaj in the
Suez Canal area, Britain’s trade
should weaken in Asia, we
should be ready to make our
bid for this trade, because we
cannot afford to let it pass out
of the hands of the British
Commonwealth.”
Mauri Bros, and Thomson
/~\NE-for-two bonus-issue from
Mauri Bros, and Thomson
will involve 486,497 £1 shares
and, with an issue of 100,000
employees’ shares, will raise paid
capital to £1,731,391, of which
£1,459,491 will be in ords.
In 1952 a one-for-one bonus-
issue was accompanied by a one-
for-four caVh-issue.
The present bonus will be
financed out of revaluation of
shares in subsidiary cos.
The organisation is a sup-
plier of brewers’, butchers’
and bakers’ requirements, cork,
crown-seals, vinegar, malt and
shop-refrigeration. It has been
well run and profitable for the
past quarter-of-a-century.
The shares were available at
around 40s. for a considerable
time. Now, at 505., cum bonus,
they would yield 4.8 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div., which was the rate
(1952-53) which followed the
1952 bonus-issue, rising to 9 p.c.
in 1953-54, 10 p.c. 1954-55, and
11 p.c. for the year to June 30
last.
i
Paccal
PETROLEUM and Chemical
Corporation, operating at
Silver Water (near Sydney), made
a loss of £75,137 on operations
during the year to June 30.
Depreciation of £60,000 was
charged before arriving at the
loss. Technical difficulties arose
after two of the three gasmaking
units had been completed ; the
third unit is free of these
problems.
The third unit is the main
source of gas by which present
contractual output (to A.G.L.)
is being met, supplemented by
the output of the other units,
which are being modified as
opportunity offers.
The co. is not yet engaged in
the petrochemical industry on
the scale that is usual in the
U.S.A. and Canada. It is
investigating, in conjunction with
Drug Houses of Australia and
Monsanto Chemicals, the manu-
facture of petrochemicals in the
Commonwealth. But that could
only be done on a greatly
increased capital. And an output
of the numerous chemicals, etc.,
derived from petroleum that can
be kept in relation to the Aus-
tralian demand for them would
be difficult of economic achieve-
ment. Even in North America
it is difficult to produce a
quantity of one or a dozen
petrochemicals to meet present
demand without producing one
or a dozen unwanted (or little-
wanted) by-products.
Paccal was one of the glamor-
stocks of 1955, when the £1
shares went to 455. They
dropped to par last week, then
recovered to 225. 6d. It is a long-
term investment.
Ferris Industries, Ltd.
- RECEIVERS
-*■ and Channel Master tele-
vision-aerials are being added to
the lines manufactured by sub-
sidiaries of Ferris Industries,
Ltd. (Sydney), which has hitherto
specialised in turning out mobile
radio (mostly for motor-cars),
and which has expanded con-
siderably over the past few years.
To finance the new venture
£50,000 of 8 p.c. (participating
to 10 p.c. if the ord. div. rises
above 8 p.c.) unsecured registered
deposits with a seven-year
currency are being offered to the
public. Upon full subscription
of the issue, net tangible backing
for each £5O of deposits will
amount to £l4O, and last year's
net profit (after tax) of the
Ferris organisation was enough
to meet the deposits’ minimum
interest requirements more than
four times over. Before tax, the
cover was seven times.
Ferris car-radio sales actually
increased during the more diffi-
cult trading-year to June 30 last.
Channel Master TV-aerials are
already being made and distri-
buted (a popular line) and
Ferris television-sets, developed
from the U.S. Raytheon receiver,
are expected to be on sale this
month.
Ferris Industries, Ltd., controls
a progressive family business
that was established in 1932 and
variously re-corporated since. It
is intended soon to seek Stock
Exchange listing. Dividend for
the past year was 8 p.c. out of
profits equal to 9 p.c. on average
capital. At June 30 last the co.
owed the bank nothing; after
deducting £68,220 of other
liabilities and provisions, net
tangible assets amounted to
£213,272, which would increase
to £263,222 on full subscription
of the present issue.
Increase in interest-cover and
profit-earning will depend prin-
cipally on the public interest in
TV during the next few years.
All channels in Sydney and Mel-
bourne should be operating
within a few months.
Masonite Holdings
"VTO difficulty was experienced
by the reconstr'ucted
Masonite Corporation last term
in paying 10 p.c. on its greatly
enlarged but consolidated capital.
(There are no deferred shares
now.)
Consolidated profit of
£182,511, after providing
£111,125 for depreciation,
£50,000 for replacement of fixed
assets and an unspecified sum
for taxation, was equal to
15.4 p.c. on average capital.
The big Eildon (Vic.) enter-
prise is expected to start con-
tributing to earnings early in
1958 —say, 18 months’ time.
Profits for 1958-59 should there-
fore bear an even more pleasing
relation to capital than at present,
assuming that construction
activity continues to advance.
Though competition from
C.S.R. board and Burnie board
continues to increase, Masonite
output is still short of demand,
and the organisation is highly
efficient.
The 10 s. fully-paids are
around 215., to return 4.9 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
55.-paids are at 16s. A 2s. 6d.
call is payable on October 31,
with the final contribution due on
April 30, 1957. The two calls
will provide the co. with
£546,864 with which to complete
the Eildon project.


BHANDAARA
TABLETS
Will raise your ego
Olympic Athletes take them
NO DRUGS
For headaches and blood
pressure
Very good for your nerves
Sold by
WINSTON'S
117 Bathurst St.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The word
for Brandy
since 1858
TOLLEYS BP4NDI
SPECIAL HOSPIT
%
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
TOT. 46.19
For Your
EUROPEAN TOUR
new and used cars for sale with
repurchase price guaranteed, or
rental at advantageous terms.
FAIRWAY MOTORS LTD.,
Southampton, England.
Missing Friend
WILLIAM ASQUITH HARRISON
GEORGE HENRY HARRISON
WILL any person having any information
concerning the abovenamed, both formerly
of Daylesford, Victoria, sons of the late
WILLIAM HARRISON and MARY HAR-
RISON, and brothers of ANNIE KNAGGS
deceased, late of Daylesford, Victoria,
please communicate with THE FIDELITY
TRUSTEE COMPANY LTD., of 101
Lydiard Street North, Ballarat, Victoria ?
i
tmrm
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes
your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you a price for the
original.
FaiiJi in Utc
Future
Whatever else we do in Australia —and there is
much to be done —we will have to get our thinking
straight on the subject of national roads.
The breaking-up of main highways under the
stress of excessive rain has been a sharp warning.
Let us be perfectly frank with ourselves: The
present system of roads in Australia bears no
relation to the needs of the present, much less to
the future.
And the task before us is not just one of
building more mileage. The existing roads have
to be repaired, widened, improved, strengthened,
made safer. When all that is done, we still will have
the job of giving ourselves an adequate system ot
modern highways.
That must come. For neither “efficiency in
industry” nor “lower costs of production” makes
sense as a goal, without good roads that will
quicken and cheapen transport.
The roads carry more than three-quarters of
the nation’s freight traffic. Transport represents
one-third of the retail price of all the goods we
buy or the services for which we pay.
I believe that Australia is doing itself less than
justice in its piecemeal approach to roads. The
Commonwealth doles out finance, and six separate
States have the responsibility of road-building.
There is no balanced programme to plan
Australian roads as such, to finance their building
on a long-range scale, to see to their proper
maintenance once they are built.
Well, this is my own contribution to
plain-speaking on the matter: I believe that both
the plan and the performance in building our great
national roads should be a Commonwealth
responsibility.
If there were some central direction of our
effort, at least in arterial roads, the World Bank
might understand what we were doing, and assist
us with long-term finance for this greatest single
“must” in Australia’s development.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
A SHARP down-turn in New
Zealand company profits
was revealed in balance-sheets
published in September.
Results from the 34 companies
concerned may be summarised
as follows:
Profits: Up 14. down 20.
Dividends: Up 6, down 8, steady 20.
The trend is continuing to
show up in balance-sheets now
coming to hand.
Disinflationary measures
introduced by the Government
have obviously been the main
cause.
A good many businessmen,
suffering in the credit-squeeze,
applauded the chairman of
Wright, Stephenson and Co.,
C. U. Plimmer, when he
suggested the following prescrip-
tion for Maoriland’s economic
health: “A lot less moaning, a
spell of complete silence by the
promulgators of the credit-
squeeze, and the spread of some
cheer aud encouragement.”
Mr. Plimmer said that, though
N.Z. had just had a record
export year, there might be some
danger of its being talked into
a depression. Already the word
“recession” was beings commonly
used, he said.
The fact is, of course, that
there has been some recession.
It has been deliberately induced
in order to safeguard long-term
prosperity.
Talk about the credit-squeeze
and the reasons for it serves a
desirable purpose in promoting
a cautious attitude toward
spending. There seems no reason
to fear that it will do more than
that.
Exchange Deficit
Though the balance-of-
payments deficit for the year to
the end of August was only £2.3
million, against £32.8 million for
the previous twelve months, the
state of net overseas assets does
not yet justify relaxation. At
mid-September they stood at
£9O million, £2 million less than
at the same time last year.
The overseas exchange deficit
in August was only £2.7 million,
against £4.7 million in August,
1955, but private imports, at
£20.9 million, were £500,000
more than in August, 1955, and
export receipts, at £21.1 million,
were £2.8 million than in
August, 1955.
Bank-advances at the end of
August were down to £165
million, £18.2 million lower
than a year before, but the trend
in August was upward for the
first time since March, £2.7
million being added to the total
during the month.
The Reserve Bank is keeping
pressure on the banks. Two
increases in September took
reserve-ratios to the record level
of 34 per cent, for demand
liabilities and per cent, for
time liabilities.
The governor of the Reserve
Bank, Mr. E. C. Fussell, recently
indicated that the credit-squeeze
could be expected to remain sub-
stantially in its present form
at least into next year.
Even when the present squeeze
ends it seems likely that there
will be few periods in the future
when bank-credit will be freely
available to “credit-worthy”
borrowers. Speaking as a private
individual, the economic adviser
of the Reserve Bank, A. R. Low,
said recently that there were so
many factors in the modern
Welfare State that made for
overspending that some degree
of restraint on bank-credit would
be needed most of the time.
Long-term Prosperity
Though some companies’
profits have wilted, there is noth-
ing in the present situation to
cause alarm about N.Z.’s long-
term prosperity, which seems
assured by reason of natural
advantages and population
growth.
So far as the immediate future
is concerned, anyone inclined to
be downhearted can find
encouragement in export-market
prospects, which are considerably
brighter than they were a month
or two ago.
Demand for wool has strength-
ened, and the N.Z. wool-selling
season, which opens on October
22, is approached with confi-
dence.
Butter prices at the beginning
,of October had recovered 345.
per cwt. from their low point of
2905. It has been reported that
Danish production is running at
about 9 per cent, below last
year’s level. Cheese is selling on
a rising market at up to a record
300 s. per cwt.
According to the “New
Zealand Meat Producer,” the
official journal of the industry,
the prospects for Maoriland’s
meat in overseas markets remains
reasonably sound, though prices
are lower than at the same time
last year.
It is probable that the carry-
over of old season’s meat will
be lighter than in the season now
ended and that the market will
not be so burdened with stocks
from store. Increased supplies of
beef from Argentina are
expected, but if Continental
imports continue to develop as
they are doing, an increasing
weight of beef will be diverted
from the United Kingdom
market.
Meat-export Income
In spite of the sharp decline
in beef values, the meat-export
season which ended on Sep-
tember 30 will bring New
Zealand a record income. The
easing of values has been offset
by a 7 per cent, increase in
volume sold. Meat-export
receipts through the banking-
system will be well in advance of
last year’s record total of £59
million.
It should be noted, however,
that this year has been excep-
tional in that there was a heavy
carry-over of 1954-55 season’s
meat, and this has been followed
by substantially greater ship-
ments of the 1955-56 season’s
output.
Encouraging Saving
The credit-squeeze represents
the negative side of the attack
on inflation. The positive side is
represented by the Government’s
rather belated endeavors to
encourage saving.
The urgent need for vigorous
action was shown by the figures
for small savings for the year to
March last. The amount added
to the total during the year was
only £7.4 million. This was the
smallest amount added for many
years, and was little more than
half the 1954-55 figure.
A campaign to promote small
savings was initiated a few
months ago when interest-rates
were raised, and at the begin-
ning of this month several new
measures were announced.
Arrangements are being made
for the Post Office Savings Bank
to accept home lay-by accounts.
A subsidy, to be known as' a
suspensory free deposit, at the
rate of £5 on every £lOO, will
be credited to each such account,
with a total limit of £5O and with
a maximum of £250 to earn the
subsidy in each year. In effect,
deposits of £250 a year for four
years or of £lOO a year for 10
years would earn the maximum
subsidy of £5O in addition to
ordinary interest.
When a withdrawal is made
from a lay-by account for the
purpose of building or buying
a home the accumulated suspen-
sory free deposits will be paid
to the depositor. A man and a
woman may both open a lay-by
account and both draw suspen-
sory free deposits in respect
of the same house if it is for their
joint occupancy.
Provision is also to be made
for fixed deposits in the Post
Office Savings Bank at rates to
be determined by the Minister
of Finance from time to time, but
not yet announced. The bank is
to be empowered to issue
travellers’ cheques. The maxi-
mum amount on which trustee
savings-banks may pay interest
is to be increased from £750 to
£lOOO, in line with the Post
Office bank.
Some time ago the Postmaster-
General, Mr. Shand, said that
the Government was considering
the introduction of the premium-
bonds paving scheme now operat-
ing in Britain.
This caused the usual outcry
against “encouragement of
gambling.” The objection seems
pointless in view of the fact that
every town and suburb now has
its T.A.B. (Totalisator Agency
Board) premises where bets can
be laid, and nearly every tobacco-
shop and dairy advertises and
sells Australian lottery-tickets as
well as the euphemistically
named Maoriland “art-union”
tickets.
Incidentally, there is evidence
that anti-gambling sentiment in
Maoriland is more loudly
expressed than widely felt. The
National Party, for instance, at
its annual conference, decided
by an overwhelming vote to ask
that a “genuine” lottery be
established.


>
A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to loiok
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( V ice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond J. R. Faviell
F. B. Fleming C. H. Locke
Manager: N. L. Shatc
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officer:
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.117.1S
The WILDCAT
COUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
THE giant A.P.M. was able to increase
its turnover by 12 p.c. during the year
completed last June, the demand for
local products being stimulated by the
limits placed on overseas buying. Enjoy-
ing some tariff protection, A.P.M. pro-
duces most of the country’s paperboard
and kraft requirements at its five
Victorian and N.S.W. mills.
The co. was established in 1926 by
Australasian Paper and Pulp and
Cumberland Board Mills, the parent cos.
amalgamating in 1948 and going into
voluntary liquidation in 1954, when
shareholders in the old co. received
scrip in A.P.M.
Part of the co.’s pulpwood and coal
requirements comes from subsidiary cos.
A.P.M. Forests Pty., and Maddingley
Brown Coal Pty., while the parent holds
oil-prospecting licences over areas in
East Gippsland (Vic.).
Measured in terms of capital, A.P.M.
is the country’s second-largest co., over
£13.5 million having been added to paid
capital in the six years from 1948 to
1954, when it reached the current total
of £16,974,812, of which £3,500,000 is
in 6 p.c. prefs.
New plant was brought into operation
during the term and output per employee
was further improved, production- and
sales-figures reaching record levels:
f Production Sales.
Wood Paper and Paper and
Year to Pulp, Boards, Boards,
June 30, Tons. Tons. Tons.
1952 .. .. 47,535 160,037 154,662
1953 .. .. 36,307 102,317 96,143
1954 . . . . 61,609 166,276 168,976
1955 . . . . 73,245 196,008 188,358
1956 . . . . 76,900 206,557 210,771
Production capacity will be further
increased when a new mill, now under
construction at Petrie (Q.), is opened late
in 1957.
Sales for the year increased by
£2,480,782 to £22,324,765, a small price-
increase made during the term reflecting
higher labor and material costs not
absorbed by the co. Heavier provisions
for taxation (up £273,000 to £1,339,600)
and depreciation (up £225,669 to
£1,622,907), however, left net profit only
£26,962 higher at £1,717,051:
Parent Only.
—Dividends ■,
Net Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. 11.2 p.c. serves. serves.
£■£ £ £ £
1951.. 668,978 60,000 519,500 89,478 1,674,90 l
To staff fund, £25,000 .. ..1,649,951
Share premiums, £i,054,674 .. 2,704,625
8.9 p.c.
1952. .1,070,299 60,000 769,500 240,799 2,945,424
To staff funds, £25,000 .. ..2,920,424
Issue exes, written off, £44,844 .. 2,875,580
Share premiums, £420,411 .. ..3,295,991
4.5 p.c.
1953.. 549,426 159,956 575,500 3,109,961
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..3,099,961
Reserves capitalised, £492,859 •. 2,607,102
Tax overprovided 1953, £95,000 .. 2,702,102
Unexplained reduction, £8755 ..2,693,327
6.5 p.c.
1954. .1,476,708 190,312 893,363 393,033 3,086,360
Unexplained reduction, £6BOO .. 3,079,560
7.5 p.c.
1955. .1,690,089 210,000 1,010,611 469,478 3,549,038
From contingency reserve, £5780 ..3,543,258
1956. .1,717,051 210,000 1,010,611 496,440 4,039,698
Raised from 6| p.c. to 7 i p.c. in the
previous year, ord. div. was maintained
at the higher rate, earnings covering the
6 p.c. pref. div. and 11.1 p.c. on ord.
capital compared with 10.9, 9.4, 3, 11.7
and 13.1 p.c. back to 1951.
The spectacular growth of the co.
between 1950 and 1953 has been followed
by a more gradual expansion over the
past three years, last term seeing a net
£808,616 added to the (cost-less-deprecia-
tion) book-value of fixed assets:
Parent Only.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref .. £3,500,000 £3,500,000 £3.500,000
Ord . . 13,474,812 13,474,812 13,474,812
Reserves . . 3,086,360 3,549,038 4,039,698
Debentures . . 3,250,000 3,250,000 3,250,000
Mortgages . . 528,173 503,192 602,407
Overdrafts . . 936,284 1,864,975 2,142,468
Other cr’tors. . 1,142,402 1,574,000 1,475,3;>2
Tax reserve .. 2,478,697 1,874,103 2,21 1, 316
Staff funds .. 260,000 360,000 490,000
Final divs. .. 643,992 711,367 711,367
£29,295,720 £30,661,487 £31,903,420
Freehold and „
plant .. 20,237,900 21,121,511 21,930,127
Shares other cos. 1,239,999 1,084,998 1,212,502
Stock .. .. 3,960,411 4,174,450 4,128,77 b
Book debts . . 3,829,330 4,258,028 4,609,515
Cash, etc. . . 28,080 22,500 22,000
£29,295,720 £30,663,487 £31,903,420
The higher turnover led to an increase
of £351,487 in debtors (including housing-
loans to employees), and the payment of
calls to the newly-formed subsidiary,
A.P.M. Investments Pty., and A.P.M.
Forests Pty. added £127,504 to the co.’s
shareholdings. Total stocks were only
slightly lower, but there was a consider-
able reduction in the quantity of manu-
factured products in store. The funds
provided by undistributed profits were
supplemented by an increase of £99,215
in mortgages, and the bank advanced an
additional £277,493. A small reduction
in working - capital (to £2,326,790)
resulted from the higher outside liabilities,
but the £21,014,510 of shareholders’ funds
represents a satisfactory 65.8 p.c. of
balance-sheet totals.
The co.’s long-term prospects are
affected by the degree of protection
afforded. by the duty on imported
products, and a Tariff Board inquiry into
the rates of duty on paper and paper-
products is now in progress.
Each f.-p. £1 ord. share is backed by
net tangible assets of 265., last sales
bringing 235. 3d. to yield 6.4 p.c. from
a 1\ p.c. div. The 6 p.c. prefs., with a
backing of just oyer £6, return 6.5 p.c. at
18s. 4d.
Gordon Edgell & Sons (N.S.W.)
DESPITE a season unfavorable to
some crops, Gordon Edgell and Sons,
Ltd., achieved a substantial increase in
production during the year ended June
30 last, record sales leading to a 72.8
p.c. leap in net earnings.
Incorporated 26 years ago, Edgell’s
own farms provide a share of the large
range of vegetables and fruit processed
at the co.’s Bathurst, Cowra (N.S.W.) and
Devonport (Tas.) canneries. Other tinned
foods, including soup and meat, carry
the Edgell label, while quick-frozen
foods are prepared for Birds Eye Foods
(Aust.) Pty., a member of the vast
Unilever group.
A one-for-three par issue in 1955
added £159,000 to issued capital, the
exchange of 22,000 £1 ords. for land,
etc., in N.S.W. and final payments on
the one-for-three issue bringing total paid
capital to £718,000 at the end of the
term, including 60,000 £1 6j p.c. prefs.
Reorganisation and additions to the
Devonport cannery (acquired in the
previous term) limited output at that
centre, but there was a “very large”
increase in total production. A con-
sistently strong demand pushed turnover
(undisclosed)' to a record level, boosting
net profit by £64,915 to £154,045 after
providing £124,350 (up £70,850) for
taxation and £68,471 (up £5922) for
depreciation:
Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit. 6} p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £ £
1950.. 69,607 3900 8 p.c. = 27,200 38,507 210,150
1951.. 70,411 3900 8 „ „ 27,200 39,311 249,461
Excess tax provision, £12,500 .. 261,961
Share premiums, £32,538 .. 294,499
1952.. 51,263 3900 64 p.c. = 26,552 20,811 315,310
Capital profits, £12,219 .. .. 327,529
1953.. 38,288 3900 64 p.c. = 31,005 3,383 330,912
1954.. 78,730 3900 8 „ „ 38,160 36,670 367,582
Share premiums, £2550 .. .. 370,132
Capital profit, £5019 .. .. .. 375,151
1955.. 89,130 3900 8 p.c. = 41,878 43,352 418,503
Capital profit, £361 . . .. . • 418,864
Share premiums, £l5OO .. •• 420,364
1956. .154,045 3900 10 p.c. = 65,295 84,850 505,214
Although the ord. div. was lifted from
8 p.c. to 10 p.c. (requiring an extra
£23,417), over 55 p.c. of net earnings
was available to strengthen reserves. Ord.
capital increased by £20,151 over the
year, earnings equalling 22.9 p.c. on the
average figure, after covering the pref.
div., compared with 16.3, 16.5, 7.2 and
11.5 p.c. in the preceding four years.
In the last five years the book-value
of assets has almost doubled, and the
co. is still expanding. The supply of
raw materials, production and marketing
facilities benefited from capital expendi-
ture during the term, the purchase of
land, premises and plant adding a net
£100,641 to fixed assets, shown at cost,
less depreciation:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
Ord 47T.000 637,849 658,000
Reserves .. 367,582 418,503 505,214
Mortgage .. .. - 250,000 229,000
Overdraft .. •• 226,039 Joi'lql
Creditors, etc. .. 72,632 14,>,004 131,898
Tax provision .. 65,529 54,593
Final divs. .. 23,415 27,133 41,430
£1,292,197 £1,593,082 £1,901,031
Freeholds .. .. 303,785 474,865 546,*934
Plant .. .. 189,978 398,572 427,144
Stocks .. .. 688,773 480.496 713,949
Debtors .. .. 108,511 167,770 212,196
Cash, etc 1,150 65,379 80S
£1,292,197 £1,593,082 £1,901,031
In spite of much heavier stocks (up
£227,453), the directors state that supplies
of some lines were insufficient to meet
current demand. To finance the addi-
tions to stocks, fixed assets and debtors
(up £44,426), the co. obtained assistance
from its bankers, running-up an overdraft
of £148,817 after reducing cash holdings
by £64,571. At the end of the term out-
side liabilities amounted to 7s. 2d. for
each £ of shareholders’ funds, compared
with a corresponding 6s. lid. 12 months
earlier.
Announcing the higher rate of distri-
bution after a most successful year, the
directors termed the extra 2 p.c. a bonus
div. —a reminder to shareholders that the
co.’s prosperity is subject to seasonal
conditions as well as the normal market-
ing uncertainties.
Priced at 31s. 6d. (255. 9d. 12 months
ago), the £1 ords. return 6.3 p.c. from a
10 p.c. div. The 6£ p.c. prefs., seldom
seen on the ’Change, last sold at par.
There is a net tangible cover of
£2O 7s. 9d. for the prefs. and 355. 4d. for
the ords.
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.
PUBLICATION of H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.’s,
excellent balance-sheet coincides
with the co.’s new premium issue of
ordinary scrip. Pref. and ord. share-
holders and optionholders who were on
the books on September 14 will partici-
pate, one for five, in the issue, which fol-
lows a little less than a, year after the
last ordinary capital-raising, also at a
25 p.c. premium, and will bring in
£767,440 capital and £191,860 premium.
Ex-rights, the f.-p. £1 ord. shares were
priced at 355. last week, to give an imme-
diate yield of 7.1 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div.
basis. A purchase through the rights at
95., with another 255. for the co., would
give about the same return. The co.’s
money is payable in full on application
by November 21, or 12s. 6d. on appli-
cation and the balance by April 30 next
year.
Including 740,000 £1 ords. issued in
1954 to acquire the N.S.W. and Queens-
land interests of Purr-Pull Oil Industries,
Ltd., and another £742,340 of deferred
scrip allotted at par to the co,’s “principal
petroleum-supplier” last year, paid capi-
tal has more than quadrupled since the co.
was incorporated in 1947. When all
the new money is paid up capital will be
£4,846,980, of which £600,000 carries a
fixed cumulative 5 p.c., henceforth to rise
to p.c. when the ord. div. is 10 p.c. or
more. The terms of the deferred-scrip
issue, not disclosed, are said to be “most
favorable to ordinary shareholders.”
Last term good progress was made in
all sections of the business, and, after
preference dividends, net earnings stepped
up from 18.2 p.c. to 23.1 p.c. on average
ordinary capital, on which the co. paid
a 12i p.c. (up 24) div. to ord. shareholders.
No distribution was made on the
deferred capital:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f Divs.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. 5 p.c. , Ord. >, serves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £55,010 .. ..]
’53..190,066 30,000 10 = 104,800 55,266 ( ~, 114
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. . . |
W/off share exes., £6llO .. ..J
Share premiums, £71,599 net . . 1
Profit sale assets, £7646 . . .. |
Unexplained addition, £6240. . .. ( fire, 993
’54..317,636 30,000 10 = 121,954 165,682 |
To staff fund, £BOOO .. .. •• I
W/off share exes., £7358 .. •• J
Profit sale assets, £36,064 . . . . I
Unexplained addition, £669 .. • . I 077 qir
’55..444,102 30,000 10 = 226,842 187,200 |
To staff fund, £23,000 .. ..J
Share premiums, £114,050 .. .. |
Profit sale assets, £4319 . .
Tax underprovided, £3050 .. • •
To insurance res., £14,081 .. .. J-1,242, 1 61
’56..608,590 30,000 121= 314,383 264,207 j
To staff fund, £lO,OOO . . •• ]
W/off share exes., £18,750 .. ..J •
* Subject to intangibles (now £187,815).
Depreciation provision on the bigger
working-assets inventory required an
extra £64,869 (£411,063), and taxation
(£425,664) absorbed £165,948 more, so
the improved result, in actual figures
£608,590 (up £164,488), was all the more
commendable. After paying the divi-
dends 43.4 p.c. of the term’s profit
(£264,207) was carried to reserves. Share-
premiums, etc., added another £100,644
net.
During the year the co. sold over 90-
million gallons (up 10-million gallons on
the previous term) of all types of petro-
leum products, distributed in all States
through a growing number of Golden
Fleece retail outlets and country bulk-
distribution centres. Service and other
governmental contracts also contributed
to the bigger turnover.
A third tanker was added to the fleet
which is engaged in transporting crude
oil to the California Texas Corp.’s Kurnell
-refinery, H. C. Sleigh’s chief source of
supplies. In the co.’s general shipping-
agency business a record number of
vessels was handled, and the merchan-
dising department, operating in the export
field, turned over more than £2 million,
though trade was not so profitable.
The result of rapid expansion, the fairly
tight state of liquids, revealed by balance-
sheet figures, should be eased somewhat
when the new capital is in:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
£ £ £
Preference .. 600,000 600,000 600,000
Ordinary .. 2,184,480 2,281,000 2,737,200
Deferred .. .. 742,340
Reserves .. .. 676,923 ’VI-
Outside interests.. 3,413 3,606 3,335
Mortgages . . 508,800 080,100 1.721,4.
Notes .. .. „ ouu.uuu
Long-term loan .. 447,410
Overdraft .. .. 213,092 694,289 312,.--
Oreditors .. .. 1,890,888 2,250,057 -,563,9-
Staff funds . 27,431 50,106 ■
Tax provision .. 451,718 372,890 Xlq’lqq
Final divs. .. 136,954 241,84- 329,38
7,141,109 8,614,799 11,529,870
Freeholds .. 981,474 1,514,805 2,464,836
leaseholds 227,960 271,602 354,772
Plan? etc. '..3.208,267 3.496,920 4,933,313
Shares other cos... 3,052
Stocks ! . . 1,444;471 1,702,186 1,636,24 a
Debtors . . . . 1,108,625 1,460,538 J j 924,913
Cash 46,033 25,840 ) ’
Intangibles .. 121,227 134,982 187.815
7,141,109 8,614,799 11,529,870
With the funds put up by share-
holders last year and £910,653
added to its outside debt, including
£500,000 of 6\ p.c. unsecured notes,
the co. made additions totalling £2,469,594
to fixed assets and carried an extra
£438,535 in book-debts and cash. Current
liabilities again slightly exceeded more-or-
less liquid assets.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd.
STRONG competition and higher labor-
costs, coupled with credit- and import-
restrictions, have tested the strength of
retailers over the past 12 months,
increased turnover in many cases reflect-
ing mainly the rise in costs and prices.
Recently published accounts indicate that
while some cos. have improved their


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
t - -
m
m
T
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines arid
Ellison Switch Gear.
\.V,"
■
u
LIFE ASSURANCE
etv ice
FOR
m
YEARS
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
MAKE YOUR MONEY GROW WITH
NEWCASTLE!
Gain Your Government-Guaranteed
51% m 5 YEARS
FROM THE
NEWCASTLE
WATER BOARD
LOAN
For the first time, 5J per cent, is offered to you by Newcastle's
key public utility, the Hunter District Water Board. 300,000
people live within the 1,600-square miles served by the Board,
together with many great industries—-8.H.P., Courtaulds,
Lysaghts, Rylands, The Sulphide Corporation, Commonwealth
Steel, Burlington Mills, Stewarts and Lloyds, and Masonite
among them—whose continued development is essential to
Australia's economy.
Apart from this undoubted security, the Loan is unconditionally
guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government, and is also an
Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
UNTIL MONDAY ,
YOUR INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY IS NEWCASTLE!
Apply at any Commonwealth Trading Bank, through your Stockbroker,
or at The Hunter District Water Board offices at Newcastle, Maitland
or Cessnock. A 10 per cent, deposit is all you need pay today.
Issued at par, Loan No. 75 closes not later than next Monday, 22 nd October, 1956. Underwritten
by Charles A. Ord and Minnett, 16 Hunter St., Sydney, Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
earnings several have lost ground
in the face of heavier expenses
and altered conditions. Among
the more successful group is
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd., which,
trading from a valuable free-
hold in the heart of Melbourne's
Bourke-street, carries on a retail
business established in 1851.
Reserves have provided
£477,262 of the co.’s paid capital,
£838,082, the last issue being a
one-for-one bonus in 1954.
There are 150,000 £1 7 p.c. prefs.,
the balance being in ss. stock-
units.
Turnover for the year to July
31 last increased by 11.2 p.c. to
a record but undisclosed figure,
higher expenses taking a slightly
larger share of the earnings. The
new rates of co.-tax, however,
skimmed-off most of the cream,
net profit improving by only
£3605 to £146,031, after provid-
ing £104,000 (up £21,000) for
taxation and £18,329 (up £1605)
for depreciation:
f Dividends —^
Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
’51.. 80,677 10,500 114= 39,565 ! 9Q , ~n
To staff fund, £5OOO .. j ■ ’
’52.. 68,507 10,500 9 = 30,964 322,648
’53.. 71,391 10,500 9 = 30,964 352,575
Revaluation assets, £356,517 709,092
Reserves capitalised, £344,041 365,051
Overprov’n taxation, £27,886 392,937
’54. .113,566 10,500 15 = 63,074 432,929
Tax overprovided, £1673 .. 434,602
’55..142,426 10,500 12J= 86,010 480,518
Profit sale assets, £1241 .. 481,759
Tax overprovided, £2138 . . 483,897
’56..146,031 10,500 15 =103,212 516,216
* After deducting book-value of goodwill
( £60,741).
Ord. div. was lifted from 12£
p.c. to 15 p.c., caution rather
than necessity having led to the
adoption of the lower rate in the
previous term, following the
increase in capital. After cover-
ing the 7 p.c. pref. div., earnings
equalled a return of 19.7 p.c.
from ord. capital, compared with
19.1 p.c. and 14.9 p.c. of the
same figure in the two preceding
years.
Strong reserves support the
capital, shareholders’ funds
equalling 68.7 p.c. of balance-
sheet totals:
1955. 1956.
Ord. capital .. £688,082 £688,082
Pref. capital . . 150,000 150,000
Reserves .. . . 541,259 576,958
Mortgage .. ’.. 150,000 150,000
Overdraft . . .. 53,300 46,431
Sundry creditors, etc. 195,871 202,757
Staff fund . . 70,009 71,276
Tax provision . . 83,000 104,000
Final div 51,606 68,808
£1,983,127 £2,058,312
Freehold, etc. . . 921,365 940,918
Plant, etc. . . 193,851 210,594
Stock .. . . 683,862 707,132
Book debts, etc. .. 121,965 137,533
Cash. etc. . . 1,343 1,394
Goodwill .. . . 60,741 60,741
£1,983,127 £2,058,312
Improvements to freeholds
(revalued in 1954) are respon-
sible for £19,553 of the £36,296
added to fixed assets, the balance
increasing the (cost-less-depreci-
ation) book-value of plant,
furniture, etc. The higher level
of trade, in both volume and
value, was reflected by the
increase in stocks (up £23,270)
and debtors (up £15,568), but
there was little alteration in the
amount owing to creditors,
including the bank. Higher tax-
and div.- provisions were respon-
sible for a slight drop in working-
capital, down £597 to £352,787.
Tighter trading-conditions and
the scarcity of imported goods
limit prospects for the current
term, but buyers, bearing in
mind, perhaps, the well-situated
Bourke-street store, are offering
15s. for the ss. ords., at which
price there would be a return of
5 p.c. from a 15 p.c. distribution.
The £l7 p.c. prefs. yield 6.6 p.c.
at 21s. 3d., net tangible assets
providing a cover of £9 for the
prefs. and Bs. 9d. for the ords.
Wilke and Co., Ltd.
WHEN Wilke and Co. was
’ * converted to a public co. in
1948, investors were offered an
interest in a printing business
originally established in 1896.
Today the co. operates from
two Melbourne factories, its
activities including stationery-
manufacture and book-binding
r as well as commercial printing.
A par issue of 113,750 £1 ords.
in June, ’55, raised paid capital
to £538,850, of which pref.
shares account for £lOO,OOO
equally divided into 5 p.c. prefs.
and 6i p.c. redeemable prefs.
The latter, held by the M.L.C.
Assurance Co., are to be
redeemed over 20 years com-
mencing in 1960. The English
printing-house Haze 11, Watson
and Viney, Ltd., holds 10,000
ord. shares issued at a 16s.
premium in 1950.
The demand for printed
matter continued at a satisfactory
level during the year ended June
30 last and, assisted by new
plant, the co. was able to achieve
a “substantial” increase in turn-
over. Earnings, before tax,
jumped by 32.8 p.c. to a record
£100,776, despite an additional
£22,094 charged to depreciation
(£42,744), but net profit fell by
£323 to £50,026 after a much
larger provision for taxation, up
£22,150 to £50,750:
June ( Dividends Re-
-30, Profit. Pref. f Ord. ■, serves.
5 p.c.
1951.. 26.334 2500 7 p.c. = 18,200 96,445
1952.. 265 2500 7 „ „ 21,233 117,977
Profit sale assets, £lB3O .. 119,807
1953.. 2500 8 p.c. = 26,000 134,876
Profit sale assets, £439 .. 135,315
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. 132,815
Prelim, exps. w/off, £3709 . . 129,106
1954.. 59.054 2500 8 p.c. = 26,000 159,660
Profit sale assets, £1487 .. 161,147
Tax overprovided, £11,780 . . 172,927
Prelim, exps. w/off, £3095 . . 169,832
A Pref. B Pref. Ord.
6 p.c. 6£ p.c. 8 p.c.
£, £ &
1955.. 349 2500 686 26,758 190,237
Profit sale assets, £592 .. 190,829
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. 188,829
1956.. 026 2500 3250 35,108 197,997
Employing the larger capital for
a full term the pref. divs. required
an extra £2564, the unchanged
8 p.c, on the ords. calling for
£35,108 (up £14,703). After
covering the pref. divs., earnings
equalled a shade over 10 p.c. of
the ord. capital compared with
14.1 p.c. in the previous term.
To enable the installation of
new plant (up £82,710) and
additions to freeholds, etc. (up
£11,094), the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £90,244
while the amount due to creditors
increased by £58,046:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 438,850 438,860
Reserves .. 190,237 197,997
Notes .. .. 130,000 130,000
Overdraft .. .. 153,323 243,567
Creditors . . .. 73,081 131,127
Staff fund.. .. 2,500 4,500
Tax provision .. 28,600 51,031
Dividends . . . . 17,319 22,623
£1,133,910 £1,319,695
Freehold . . . . 233,741 244,835
Pl .nf . . 460,975 543,685
Stock .. .. 227,824 312,027
Debtors .. .. 210,927 218,705
Cash 443 443
£1,133,910 £1,319,695
Ample stocks (up £84,203) are
expected to cushion the effect of
import-restrictions during the
current term, but future progress
is dependent on adequate supplies
of paper being available. How-
ever, after five years of fairly
rapid expansion, no further
major capital expenditure is con-
templated in the immediate
future.
In 1954 the co. raised £130,000
from the issue of 6 p.c. notes
which may, at the option of the
holder, be converted into ords.
Further Balance-sheet
Reviews—page 31
(at par) in 1959. These options
are transferable, sellers asking
Is. 6d. at the Melbourne ’Change
recently. At 21s. 6d. the f.-p.
£1 ords. return 7.5 p.c., the 5 p c.
prefs. yielding 6.2 p.c. at 16s.
The 6£ p.c. prefs. are not traded.
There is a net tangible cover of
295. for the ords. and £l4 14s. 9d.
for the 5 p.c. prefs.
Backdoor Wapet News
[By L. Owen]
APE T ’ S weekly press-
releases, together with the
monthly “Digest” issued by the
same organisation, are models of
factual —if somewhat reticent —
reporting. It is surprising, there-
fore, to find important details
with reference to Wapet’s opera-
tions and future programme
anticipated in a series of articles
in various capital-city dailies,
followed, in a Sunday edition, by
an explanatory geological section
(very much out-of-scale, particu-
larly in regard to the thickness
of the oil-impregnated lense in
Rough Range No. 1) which
purported to illustrate the
structure through Rough Range
Wells, Nos. 1 to 9, together with
that assumed to exist along a
line comprising Rough Range
South wells, Nos. 1 to 5.
The articles in question
contained an amount of hitherto
unpublished and often quite
valuable quantitative informa-
tion which was obviously culled
from official sources. It is
difficult to appreciate why such
information was not released in
the first instance through the
normal public-relations channels,
and why it was ultimately pre-
sented in the journalese of
“A Special Correspondent"
instead of official and authori-
tative terms.
Readers of The Bulletin may
draw some consolation, however,
from the fact—now quite obvious
in the official communications —
that the very complicated and
faulted nature of the Carnarvon
Basin at depth is being recog-
nised, at least in part. I need
not reiterate the opinions which
1 have expressed so often in these
columns and at press-conferences
and scientific gatherings in
Australia, but I may be allowed
to repeat my warning
(B. 23/12/’53) that the nature of
the Rough Range No. 1 oil made
it highly improbable that the
source-beds were anywhere near
the Birdrong horizon:
The nature of oil —a very waxy
paraffin-base crude —indicates that
the oil has migrated a long way
from its source and has suffered
micro-filtration in the process,
and my pointing out that Rough
Range No. 6 well, had the Bird-
rong sand behaved as a “normal"
reservoir-body, should have been
a producer (B. 22/12/’54). That
will absolve me from any charge
of trying to be wise after the
event.
That Wapet entertains the
hope that the Birdrong horizon
may still prove an oil-reservoir
is shown by the press-release
issued as this note was being
written.
(Finance continued on page 31)


Wonen's Letters
SYDNEY
The Waratah'Festival took a new lease
of life in its second week, partly because
of the better weather and partly because
Sydney people became more enthu-
siastic. The general verdict was that it
was very well organised but not well
publicised, and that next year it will grow
into something that all Sydneyites will
know about and enjoy. Perhaps next
year, too, the harbor will be the scene
of more of the functions.
The flower displays were beautiful and
there were plenty of waratahs. At the
Town Hall the Royal Horticultural
Society’s show put the emphasis mostly
on the decorative aspects of the spring-
flowers and the child-size geranium-
cottage with a front lawn, paved path and
geranium plants of every description was
a star-piece. The City Council had a
charming Japanese garden, the wild-
flowers, both local and West Australian,
captured attention, and displays of carna-
tions, roses, hippeastrums, iris and
particularly calceolarias provided plenty
of interest for flower-lovers.
For the retail stores’ flower-displays
Anthony Hordern’s easily carried off the
palm, as every window and every
department were decorated with masses of
fresh flowers. Two members of the staff,
Michael Khlentzos and Charles Unsworth,
sang floral songs during the lunch-hour,
and wherever one turned some lovely
decorative scheme met the eye. Lord
Mayor Hills opened this display early
in the week, as it was from Anthony
Hordern’s flower-festival last year that
the Waratah Festival has grown.
The procession on Saturday was a
spectacular success. Crowds of people
turned out to see it, the sun shone and
everything went according to schedule.
Mounted police led the way from the
Domain to the Showground, vintage-cars
brought up the rear. There were 26
bands, from military to jazz, and includ-
ing a Chinese band which got loud
cheers for its “ching-ching, ding-ding.”
Members of the Forces marched, national
groups in costume too (the Dutch had a
float with a windmill turning all the time),,
a clown on stilts walked all the way.
There were monkeys on Shetland ponies
and a baboon in a cage who escaped and
was captured, but who was really g man
dressed-up. The 40 floats representing
practically every phase of Sydney life
were voted imaginative in des’gn, perfect
in construction, one of the most popular
being the Sunday-school float with its
charming little children Family-groups
especially enjoyed the procession and are
looking forward to it next year.
☆ '☆ ☆
Meanwhile tb; teenagers were having
their day out at the Cricket Ground,
where “the most brilliant G.P.S. sports
carnival ever” (as it was described) was
held. It was the day of all days for St.
Joseph’s College, whose champions were
responsible for 10 of the 15 records
broken. Joey’s was represented at the
cocktail-party which the Council of the
Great Public Schools 0.8. U. held at
Prince’s after the sports-meeting, by
0.8. U. president Dr. J. Conneeley and
Mrs. Conneeley and by past-president W.
Fogarty and Mrs. Fogarty.
This was the first social function held
by the council since 1937, and 130 guests
were greeted by president Mr. Alan
Ritchie and Mrs. Ritchie. Sir Ivan and
Lady Mackay were< present, Mr. A. E.
McLucas (new headmaster of Scots) and
Mrs. McLucas, Mr. and Mrs. G. A.
Fisher (The Armidale School) and Mr.
and Mrs. C. E. McConnell.
☆ ☆ ☆
Care for the aged is beginning to
occupy the public conscience more press-
ingly and is making haste slowly. The
latest addition to amenities is a cheerful
little club-room in Chippendale, spon-
sored by the University Settlement. This
was opened during the week by Miss
Gladys Moncrieff, who organised a con-
cert earlier in the year and raised £5OO
for the renovations and furnishing, all
fresh, modern and colorful. Next project
by the Settlement is the provision of hot
meals for old people in the Redfern-
Chippendale district.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was sad to hear of the death of Thea
Harker, a gifted young woman and contri-
butor to the Bulletin both in her own
name and under the pen-name “Thark.”
She died of an aneurism in August, on
the 14th anniversary of her wedding-day,
at the age of 37. She was the wife of Dr.
Andrew Harker, of Fairfield, and the
mother of two daughters and a son.
Some of her poems have been set to
music by Frank Hutchens, some have
been broadcast. Thea was a graduate in
Arts and had travelled extensively. She
had a wide circle of friends and was held
in the highest affection for her gracious
and charming personality.
☆ ☆ &
Mrs. J. Sopoushek (author Gladys
Lister) has a special gift for entertaining,
and her charming attic-flat at Rose Bay
makes a perfect setting for her delightful
parties. Her latest was a luncheon for 50
of her women friends at which she intro-
duced Mrs. H. J. Pohl, an expert in cura-
tive-education, who spoke on the Rudolf
Steiner method of teaching children in
need of special care. Mrs. Pohl has a day-
school for such children at Roseville, and
a committee has been formed so that
funds may be raised for the establishment
of a residential school. Mrs. Sopoushek
is president of the committee and Mrs.
Millard Hagon deputy-president.
Historic St. James Church has been
chosen by Patricia Greville of Balgowlah
for her marriage on Friday to John Lewis,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. Cardiff
Lewis of Bellevue Hill, as this is the
church at which her parents were married
and at which her father, the late Rev.
Greville, was stationed for some years.
Her matron-of-honor will be Mrs. Evan
Lewis, her bridesmaids Nancy Vincent
and Dinah Single. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
St. Margaret’s Hospital will benefit from
the proceeds of High Society Fashion
Show at the Trocadero last Wednesday.
Actor Leo McKern, with his Ned Kelly
beard but minus his armor, was guest-
of-honor with his wife, whose zebra-
striped beret took the hat-honors. Mrs.
Garth Hay headed the committee.
Features of the afternoon included the
clothes by Frank Mitchell and songs by
Johnny O’Connor and Virginia Paris.
☆ ☆ ☆
Other activities of the week included
the Independent’s first night as a pro-
fessional theatre and a very successful
black-tie-and-ballerina affair with Miss
Fitton in navy chiffon and red satin shoes,
the Erik Langkers of course (he is chair-
man of directors), Dr. and Mrs. Douglas
Anderson,, the Harald Bowdens, Hugh
Hunt, John Sumner, Lady Braddon, the
C. R. McKerihans, Aid. and Mrs.
Brothers—quite a galaxy!
☆ ☆ ☆
Then there was the talk by Ernest Bur-
bridge at the Royal Empire Society’s
literary Luncheon on modern English
novelists who write about scholarship
boys from Oxford who become professors
—very witty and amusing. Next of these
luncheons will be on the works of Marcus
Clarke (the writer, not the retailer) and
will be given by Mr. H. L. McLoskey,
who is the N.S.W. Parliamentary
Librarian. Date is Thursday, October 18.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Chinese Double Tenth (i.e., the
tenth day of The tenth month, which is
celebrated for the establishment of the
Chinese Republic by the Chinese
Nationalists) brought about 400 guests to
the Cairo for a cocktail-party, where dim-
sims and what looked like Chinese
dumplings were served along with
Double-tenth biscuits. Consul-General
C H Sih and Mrs Sih were the hosts.
s. n. sin anu .
MELBOURNE
Special guests at the luncheon given by
the Lady Mayoress, Lady Selleck, at the
Town Hall were the wives of the
Governor and the Premier. The purpose
was to introduce wives of three new city
councillors to wives whose husbands aie
also members of the council, fhe centre
of the reception-room, round which was
set the semicircular flower-strewn table,
was a sunken garden in which bloomed
brightly-colored cinerarias, calceolaria
and green foliage. Through garden and
greenery trickled a merry little
waterfall.
The hostess’s small white straw hat,
garlanded with multicolored spring-
flowers, was worn with a black faille coat-
frock. Lady Brooks chose a jacket-suit of
carbon-blue silk-shantung, and her pretty
pink-straw bonnet was massed in front
with pastel-toned flowers. Mrs. Bolte s
small flower-covered grey straw hat was
worn with a light-grey wool frock. With
her beige suit Lady Warner wore a small
white straw hat swathed with cinnamon-
brown tulle. Other hats which were eye-
catching were Mrs. Maurice Nathan’s
white trimmed with large white roses,
Mrs. Leo Curtis’s high-crowned grey straw
edged with white grosgrain ribbon, Mrs.
Geoffrey Tolson’s large mushroom in pink
straw banded in paler-pink chiffon, and
the small pink straw hat looped with
pink and grey chiffon chosen by Mrs.
Bernard Evans.
An attractive sheath-frock of black silk
patterned in turquoise-blue was worn by
Mrs. Joseph Wiedenmayer when she
assisted her husband, the U.S. Consul,
receive guests at a late-aftern'oon party in
their South Yarra home. Assisting them
were the newly arrived U.S. Consul, Mr.
Carleton C. Brower, and his wife, she
wearing a slimly-cut frock of black silk-
jersey, the low V-cut neckline caught at
the back with a bow. Guests included
the Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck), Mr.
and Mrs. W. W. Killough, Mrs. Douglas
Levick, Mrs. Stanley Lehman, Mr. and
Mrs. Angus Jones, Sir Ivan and Lady
Holyman, Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Robinson, Mr. and Mrs. “Bing”
Molyneux, U.S. Air Force Attache
Colonel John Hussey and Mrs. Hussey,
his assistants Colonel Collas G. Clarke
and Major L. Donnelly and their wives,
and Mr. and Mrs. Donald Anderson.
Eight years ago Hanna Pan arrived
from Czechoslovakia with her husband
Otto and their one-year-old daughter Eva
Mary. A graduate in economies from
Prague University, she wrote on
economics for a daily newspaper. After
arriving in this city Mrs. Pan became
secretary to the Royal Caledonian Society,
a position she held for six years. Now
naturalised, Mrs. Pan runs her own
public-relations office and handles the
publicity for a number of well-known
firms. Photo by Laurie Richards.
To celebrate the National Day of the
Republic of China, Consul K. Y. Leung
entertained 400 guests at a reception and
buffet-dinner at Earl’s Court, St. Kilda.
Assisting Mr. Leung was Vice-Consul
S. C. Chang. Next month Mr. Leung will
be joined by his wife and three children,
who will come from Hong Kong.
Among the guests were noted
the Premier’s wife, Mrs. Henry Bolte (in
pleated coat of emerald-green shantung),
and Lady Warner, wife o f the Minister for
Transport; Lady Knox (whose frock and
full-length coat-ensemble were of black-
and-white-flecked silk-tweed); U.S.
Consul-General Gerald Warner and Mrs.
Warner; U.S. Consul Joseph Wieden-
mayer and his wife; U.S. Vice-Consul
Carleton Brower and Mrs. Brower ; Sir
Horace Robertson, Lieut.-General Sir
Sydney Rowell and Lady Rowell, Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, and former Chinese Consul
W. Liu and his son Alex.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted at the Guineas meeting at
Caulfield: Mrs. Norman Robinson’s
ensemble of wild-rice fine-wool; Mrs.
Geoffrey Brewer’s small hat made of
frills of white organza trimmed with tiny
red roses; Mrs. Len Buxton’s toque of
green straw covered with tiny buttercups,
cornflowers and daisies; Mrs. Alfred
Fowler’s small umbrella-shaped hat of
two-tone cerise fine straw ; Mrs. Tony
Luxton’s circlet of white straw which
carried masses of white flowers; Mrs.
Everard Baillieu’s hat of dusty-pink
summerweight felt with its wide droop-
ing brim ; Mrs. Kenneth McLean’s deep-
jade green wool suit and pretty toque
of brown feathers.
☆ ☆ ☆
The buffet-luncheon and fashion-
parade held at the Heidelberg home of
Mrs. T. G. Pizzey“to aid the funds of
the Australian - American . Association
building-fund was attended by Lady
Brooks, who wore a coat-dress in misty-
blue tonings and a tiny velvet cap to
match. The Lady Mayoress (Lady
Selleck) chose a grey suit and small black
hat. The hostess’s pale-pink pure-silk
frock was patterned in white.
Among the guests were Mrs. W. W.
Killough, Mrs. Douglas Levick, Mrs.
Stanley Lehman and Mrs. C. W. McKay;
Mrs. L. O’Brien, her daughter June and
daughter-in-law Mrs. Bryan O’Brien,
Mrs. Eric Cottrell, Mrs. T. Wallace
Mitchell and her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Robert Wallace Mitchell, Mrs. Ronald
Nott (in wide-brimmed mushroom hat
of black swansdown and tailored beige
mohair coat), Mrs. Norman Pizzey, Mrs.
L. Pizzey, Mrs. John Cain, Mrs. A. J.
Mclntosh, Mrs. George Winwood, Mrs.
W. H. Horsfall and Mrs. Lionel Newton.
☆ ☆ ☆
As the Victoria League’s proposed
Olympic Ball would have clashed with
the Lord Mayor’s Ball, it has been
replaced by a dinner-dance to be held at
Menzies’ Hotel on November 27.
Tickets are limited. Ticket-secretaries
are Elizabeth McMeekin (UY3645),
Marion McPherson (BM1832), Pamela
Middleton (8Y3998) and Paddy Wilkin-
son (BM1486).
CANBERRA
Floodlights and the traditional red
carpet adorned the entrance to the Hotel
Canberra when the Minister for China,
Dr. Chen Tai Chu, and Madame Chen
gave a reception to mark the anniversary
of the foundation of the Chinese Nation-
alist Republic. The spacious reception-
room was decorated with huge arrange-
'ments of red and white gladioli, white
blossom, blue delphiniums and corn-
flowers, and red gerberas, many specially
flown from Queensland.
Dr. and Madame Chen received the
guests, Madame Chen wearing a tradi-
tional Chinese gown of ivory-satin bro-
cade patterned in gold thread ; her jewel-
lery was of jade. Among the guests were
the Ambassador for Germany, Dr.
Walther Hess, and Madame Hess, she in
a frock of charcoal faille patterned in
turquoise-blue, her large platter hat of
black straw ; the Ambassador for Japan,
Mr. T. Suzuki, and Mrs. Suzuki, she wear-
ing Japanese national dress in grey
brocade ; the bachelor Ambassador for
France, Monsieur Renaud Sivan; the
Minister for Italy, Signor Silvio Daneo;
the American Charge d’Affaires, Mr.
Avery F. Peterson, and his wife ; the High
Commissioner for South Africa, Mr.
J. K. Uys, and Mrs. Uys ; and the acting
High Commissioner for Canada, Mr.
D. M. Cornett, and Mrs. Cornett.
Parliamentary guests included Mr. and
Mrs. John Howse —her striking frock
was in gold lame, the long bodice high-
lighted by a wide fichu-collar, worn with
a close-fitting hat in black-and-gold
straw ; Sydney visitor Mrs. Wentworth,
wife of Mr. W. C. Wentworth, wore a
beige woollen frock with a matching felt
hat in the new bell shape ; the Minister for
Immigration, Mr. Harold Holt; Mr.
W. S. Kent Hughes; Mr. W. C. Haworth ;
Mr. Frank Timson; and Major Robert
Lindsay.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
X
JACKSON 4
OSUIJUIYAtf
t jaiim *
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Yorlt
LETTERPRESS AND PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Jelegrams and Cablet
■’JACKSUL/' BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Position Vacant
Woman wishes to work, passage to
Hamburg as stewardess, companion or
escort. Urgently needed as mother
is seriously ill in Germany. Reply:
WEEKS
C/o Box 569 J. G.P.0.,
BRISBANE, Queensland.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT _ OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divokce.
TO ROY CUMMINGS late of 8 Laguna
Street Caringbali, and DAWN RYAN. —
TAKE NOTICE that IRIS MARY CUM-
MINGS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2622 of 1956 on the grounds of the
adultery of ROY CUMMINGS with
DAWN RYAN If you the said ROY
CUMMINGS wish to defend you may file
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
19th of December 1960 YOU the said
DAWN RYAN may apply to the Court to
be allowed to defend A copy of the Peti-
tion may be obtained without charge from
LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUOHAN, Registrar. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divokce.
TO WILLIAM BROWN late of Orange
Drover.—TAKE NOTICE that ANNIE
DORIS BROWN has tiled a Petition for
Divorce No. 2508 of 1955 against you on
the grounds of your desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the office of the
Registrar in Divorce by 14th December
1956 A copy of the Petition may be
obtained without charge from MeCAW
JOHNSON & COMPANY. Solicitors, of
75 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
dontlfit
>1
J
i
NAIL YOU DOWN
Take pleasant tasting Elkin
Tablets and stop that craving
for smoking from TODAY.
Under the influence of this new
scientific formula, which is
guaranteed to produce no
unpleasant after effects, ex-
hilarating health may once a-iin
be enjoyed—the craving for
tobacco will cease and you will
SAVE MONEY.
DON’T DELAY send 10/-
NOW for 50 tablets (post free) to
ELKIN DISTRIBUTORS
“B,” Cawarra Rd., Caringbah
(Box 4242, G.P.0., Sydney)
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Magic Flute”
The curtain that went up on
the first act of Stefan Haag’s
enchanted production of “The
Magic Flute” in Brisbane showed
a deep and gloomy chasm over-
hung by a procession of wind-
swept clouds streaking along
aloft. Above the boulders strewn
around there darted an enormous
serpent, emanating from some
kind of magic lantern no doubt,
but none the less effective for
that.
If the audience did not, like
Prince Tamino, faint at the sight,
they at least surrendered to the
illusion which a startlingly
clever use of projectors and
gauze screens sustained for the
rest of the opera. The weird
shapes and colors that made up
the visual delights of the produc-
tion were so neatly balanced by
a stimulating account of Mozart’s
music that the difficulties of
a plot that is often undramatic
and frequently absurd were
almost unnoticed.
None of the singers seemed
in the least embarrassed by the
kaleidoscopic scene - changes
going on around them, and the
acting was quite as confident as
the singing. Max Worthley made
Prince .Tamino as much a
character as that hopelessly noble
prince can be. His tenor was
clear and attractive most of the
way after some strained notes
in the Portrait aria. Throughout,
his diction was a model of clarity.
Geoffrey Chard was the bird-
catcher, Papageno, a perform-
ance that came amusingly to life
by virtue of this singer's con-
siderable gift for comedy in
addition to a resonant baritone.
His scenes with the magic bells
were a delight and, with Papa-
gena (Jenifer Eddy), he struck
the only real note of comic relief
in a very solemn opera. Tenor
Raymond Macdonald sang the
Moor Monostratos with the
lecherous gleam in his eye that
is a vital stock-in-trade of most
literary and operatic Moors. His
robust tenor sounded well in a
part that gave it little oppor-
tunity to show its real
capacities.
The most beautifully finished
vocal performance was Marjorie
Conley’s Parnina. Not very
demanding histrionically, it calls
for singing of the greatest
serenity, especially in “Ah, ’tis
gone,” where she laments what
seems to be the end of Tamino's
love for her. Here her pure,
unforced tone penetrated the
theatre and yet remained an
intimate confession of grief.
The symbolic power of light
over darkness was represented
commandingly by the Sarastro
of Stanley Clarkson, sepulchral
both of voice and appearance.
His singing provided a kind of
vocal cornerstone to temple-
scenes of great dignity and
power. The members of the
chorus were tall enough to make
the Priests seem other-worldly
in spite of some inappropriate
wigs.
Betty Prentice was not in as
big a voice as usual. Her first
appearance is in a chariot that
soared along between heaven
and earth bathed in a malevo-
lently greenish light, and, though
this was effective to look at, it
would have shaken the com-
posure of any coloratura.
There were more good points
about this production and per-
formance than can be listed.
Particularly memorable were the
three genii who bobbed up from
time to time as three angels clad
in white satin and always with
their hands in their pockets.
Costumes and scenery by Des-
monde Downing had an agree-
able modern touch, and it was
a splendid idea to suggest scenes
instead of painting them in
detail.
Some first-night noises made
the illusion tremble a little but
it was impossible to go out into
the street again without feeling
that the opera could have lasted
a lot longer. Thirty or so
musicians from the Queensland
Symphony Orchestra dealt
capably with the score under the
firm but lively direction of
Joseph Post. It was a perform-
ance good by any standards, and
a solid argument why the present
season of opera must be extended
so as to become a permanent
part of the Australian musical
scene.
D.J.M.
“The Canterbury Pilgrims”
Chaucer’s Tales in the
language in which the poet wrote
them were the bane of the
present commentator’s school-
days. He only discovered their
quality when he read them much
later in a new translation into
modern English in a Penguin,
The other night he heard them
narrated in still another
language, that of English com-
poser Sir George Dyson, at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, and it was
something to remember.
Although Sir George’s music
sometimes relapsed into a jog-
trot and there was not the con-
tinuous excitement that there is
in the “Messiah,” it had its
moments. There were pith and
characterisation in the pictures
of the Squire who was so hot in
love that he slept by night no
more than doth the nightingale,
the Monk who loved a fat swan
the best of any roast, the
Franklin in whose house it
snowed meat and drink, and the
Wife of Bath who had had five
husbands at church door, as well
as other pleasant companions.
It was a night out for the
Adelaide conductor Norman
Chinner. Under his magnificent
direction the Royal Phil-
harmonics sang like a choir of
angels and he led rather than
drove the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra through one of the
most spirited performances in its
history. William Herbert’s tenor
rang with its usual crystal clear-
ness above the hoofbeats of the
horses. Loris Synan aired her
adequate soprano and Alan
Eddy poured his rich bass over
the various dishes.
<s*
Purcell's “King Arthur"
Professor R. D. Peart’s pre-
sentation, for Sydney Univer-
sity’s Pro Musica Society, of a
concert-version of this little-
heard opera by England’s great-
est composer was an artistic
success. The music is eminently
listenable —an admixture of
gracefulness and forceful
strength—and the choral writing
in particular is in Purcell’s most
felicitous style.
Dryden’s text makes meaty
use of the rivalry, in war and
love, between King Arthur and
Oswald, Saxon King of Kent,
which culminates in personal
combat to decide both issues.
Gods and nymphs rub
shoulders with lusty mead-
swilling soldiers ; there is wassail
all in the great hall and the
Britons fall on the Saxons just
as they are happily downing their
stingoes and rout them—a
resounding victory which is cele-
brated with a stirring chorus,
“Come If You Dare,” which the
chorus sang with a fair balance
and plenty of vim after some
uncertainty in attack. The final
chorus, “Harvest Home,” a fine
example of rollicking writing,
was sung with greater confidence.
Bernadette Quin sang the chief
soprano roles in a light, accurate
voice which needed more expres-
sion and range of color. Patricia
Quin, the other soprano, blended
into the duet-work nicely. The
roles of the rival kings were
taken by Allan Gamble (billed
as a tenor but whose voice is a
true light-baritone), who sang
with good judgment, and bass-
baritone Neil Easton, who put
his strong low register to work
with very good resonant effect.
The orchestra, which earlier
had given a cheerful reading of
Bach’s Overture in C for oboes,
bassoon, harpsichord and strings,
gave a reasonably good account
of the operatic score as a whole,
and quite a good one of the
splendid chaconne with which the
opera opens. The conductor
gave the singers every chance by
throttling-back his forces judi-
ciously, but there were times
when, despite his most vigorous
exhortations, they failed to
achieve the necessary balance in
their own choirs.
Artbursts
Reynolds Portrait
For artistic value, the Sir
Joshua Reynolds portrait of Lady
Frances Finch takes pride of
place among the latest Felton
Bequest purchases, which fill two
bays at the National Gallery in
Melbourne. Its depth, the rich-
ness of its color, the delicacy with
which the lace of the lady’s dress
is painted, and the subtlety of
its textures make contemporary
paintings by Edward Middle-
ditch, James Taylor, Phillip
Sutton and Alan Renolds look
like jamtin-labels.
To get the effects he desired
Reynolds appears to have used a
mixture of the techniques of
Rubens, Vandyck and Rem-
brandt, but this would have been
of no consequence if Reynolds’s
technical ability hadn’t run
parallel With his observation.
A 16th-century Flemish bronze
of eight fat children playing
ring-a-ring-a-rosy has grace and
finish and a Sung Dynasty lotus-
bowl an easy shape and a lovely
glaze. A Greek amphora and a
kylix dated round about 500 b.c.
with figures on them are good
examples and are as traditional
in shape as the Sung vases.
* * *
Bendigo Prize
Bendigo (Vic.) Art Gallery
offers three prizes—£loo for an
oil, £4O for a watercolor and a
special Frances Maud Freeman
Memorial Prize of £lOO also for
oils. Closing date, November 23,
1956. Details from Mr.. B. S.
Andrew, hon. sec., Bendigo Art
Gallery. Paintings may be sent
for sale.
Talkies
“The Constant Husband”
(Sydney Century): A sparkling
comedy, with Rex Harrison scor-
ing heaps of easy laughs as an
amnesia victim who collects
wives with the utmost flippancy.
Margaret Leighton is the
barrister who defends him when
the inevitable showdown comes
and thereby qualifies for inclu-
sion in the list, and Kay Kendall
is the last of the seven, all of
whom still adore their erring
mate and plump for him at the
trial which climaxes the fun.
“Passage Home” (Sydney
Embassy): Peter Finch as a hard-
driving, morose skipper of a
British freighter who cuts down
on the crew’s tucker in his
obsession for achieving cheap-
cost passages. Under Con-
sular orders he takes on a
lone passenger—a woman —
and the rivalry that this sparks-
off between the skipper and his
second-mate (Anthony Steel),
plus a storm and the mutinous
attitude of the crew, keep the
drama sizzling. Diane Cilento
fulfils the good reports heard
about her on the English stage.
“The Vagabond King”
(Sydney Prince Edward):
Rudolf Friml’s tuneful operetta
is well-served with superb sets
and plenty of lively action in this
Paramount version. There is also
some virile singing by Oreste, the
Maltese tenor, who also manages
to infuse plenty of snap into his
role of the swashbuckler poet,
Francois Villon. Katherine
Grayson’s coloratura is no more
than adequate. But the show is
stolen by the veteran actor
Walter Hampden as the crafty
King Louis, who uses Villon’s
pulling-power with the people to
defeat Burgundian ambitions.
“The Loves of Casanova”
(Australia, Melb.): In this
Franco-Italian film done in
Italian and in color, the redoubt-
able Gabriele Ferzetti Casanova
finds himself in the famous Villa
d’Este and simultaneously in
love with Mara Lane, Florence
Arnaud, Lia Di Leo and Fulvia
Franco, each more beautiful and
seductive than the other.
Later he crashes the aristo-
cratic gates of Venice and makes
a wager of 2000 florins with
the Countess Corinne Calvet
that he will have her in his
arms in a week’s time at the
stroke of midnight, and wins the
bet as well as the by-no-means
reluctant lady. He escapes from
prison into a wedding-party
where he succeeds in detaching
Marina Vlady from her newly-
married husband, and crowns
this exploit by succeeding in
subtracting the Margrave Maria
Teresa (Nadia Gray) from her
liege lord, for which service he
is appointed High Commissioner
of Morals.
It is all very funny and done
with enormous gusto, and there
are so many beautiful women in
the film and so much noble
architecture that it is easy to
forget that it is all unmitigated
nonsense with little relation to
Casanova’s memoirs.


AT THE GUAMD
By HAL PORTER
FINALLY, bored with the
higgledy-piggledy autumn
beach, the now-on now-off
sunshine and the hard-
eyed importunities of seagulls,
I walked to the Galahad Hotel
for a drink. There, risking a
fractured pelvis on the immensity
of the black-and-white-tiled
foyer, I ran into Rupert Gaar-
Smith. About us bronze nudes
upheld spheres lit by forty-watt
globes. Gaar-Smith had an
official air of distracted im-
portance ; his large eyes rolled
like a gelding’s. Altogether his
comedian’s face suggested mental
toothache.
We were of an age, and old
acquaintances ; thirty-odd years
before we had lived opposite in
a Gippsland country-town. Boy-
hood proximity and many acci-
dental encounters such as this
one had produced a seeming-
friendship, though now we were
older we hardly liked each other.
We certainly were not friendly
enough to quarrel, but we were
always titillated by the extra-
ordinary way our dissimilar
paths kept interlocking at odd
places.
My career had been a patch-
work ; so had his. But our planes
of experiment were well
separated. He. had been music-
master in a private school, a
Wurlitzer-organist, an actor, a
radio-announcer, a dress-material
salesman; once he had run a
Collins-street coffee shoppe hung
with Klee and Miro prints. God
knows what else he’d done or
would finish-up doing, but I
was almost surprised to find him
assistant-manager of a hotel,
and such a hotel, and in that
place.
That place was the seaside
suburb where I had been skulk-
ing about under the film-set
scaffolding of Big Dippers and
shuttered ice-cream kiosks. ■ It
was a suburb that had sledded
downhill from fashionable
elegance in late-Victorian and
Edwardian years to the tawdry
and the downright criminal : it
was now a Cannes to spiv, cat-
■; ir, confidence-man, petty
inter’s moll, pervert and
‘juvenile delinquent. Port Phillip
ki >rs nudging rotten oranges
COl fishing-net corks on to the
a exhaled still that smell of
dec. mg salty seaweed
Edv.ardians called ozone.
The suburb, garish and built-
up as a sundae, breathed back
the stench of hamburger,
espresso and fish-and-chip shops.
To this Time had added some
pseudo-Gropius blocks of flats,
tiled bus-stop shelters, an out-
lining of Neon, ballrooms and a
glaciariumlike battleship - grey
hangar and a multicolored coat-
ing of paint. This covered every-
thing: balustrade, roof, Greek
Revival, Belgian Gothic, Floren-
tine Renaissance, rooftop urns,
stucco faces of rams and
Minervas, moulded-iron parapets
and Moorish arches. There were
uncountable custard - yellow
doors.
Only the Pompeiian tiles, lead-
ing to basalt steps still edged
with blackout-white, had missed
this symbolic mid - century
veneer. Only these and the
Galahad Hotel.
The Galahad retained much
of the top-heavy grandeur of
its prime when Sarah Bernhardt
had stayed there, Rudyard
Kipling, Henry Handel Richard-
son and squatters’ broods with
their immigrant nursemaids.
Framed menus of Derby Day
meals at Windsor Castle hung in
the vast dining-room, with its
c fireplaces, stained-glass
otw and
ladi its Hfe-size Majolica
swans j t was one 0 f those
mansarded hotels in which
marble statues 0 f t h e Seasons
and Virtues stood below huge
oil-paintings—“ Sunset in Egypt,”
“ Dawn at Rondo”—and prints
of setters Thomas Blinks -
Guests were minified by pillars of
liver - colored stone; corridors
ended at looking-glass walls in
which one sidestepped oneself
. bp f orp the crash
>“* tofore lhe “«*•
rsIIPFRT GAAR SMITH
T>UPERT GAAR - SMITH,
theatrically fruity of voice
jowly, in charcoal-grey and
handmade shoes, too greenish-
gold of hair for - forty-one?
forty-two?-seemed pleased to
see me: You are manna he
said > as though to the gallery,
“Manna! Your ear I must have.
I must unburden ere I go quite
em, ay, dee.”
His manner was odd; the
dressing-room affectations I’d
often heard before, but there was
a subsurface intensity in his
wheedlings. “Spare me a scant
half-hour. For the sake of our
in-no-cent boyhood. My wash-
stand, dear man, groans with
expensive strong waters.”
“Don’t be a fool,” I said. “I’d
enjoy a natter. And free drinks.”
“Oh good," he said, and
seemed really relieved. Ringingly
he called towards the reception-
desk > “Laura, m y ducks . . .
oh, it’s you, Miss Daly. Miss
Daly, I am now off duty. Mr.
Rockleigh is on. You’ll find him
in . . well, you know where.”
„. . ,
Gesturing me on rather m the
' nanne ' | / lhe 8 /° /" h L
he said from the corner of his
mouth to me, “In the saloon-bar
B Brother Rockleigh, and led
m e to his room by corridors at
fi rs , thickly wall-to-walled next
runner-carpeted, finally of hno-
leum glossy as a sergeant-major s
boot.
His room, in the oldest part of
the hotel, was large: marble fire-
place, cedar armchairs, brass
double-bed like Salvador Dalis
tiled washstand serving as a
cocktail-bar. He poured drinks,
chattering on, rather overdoing
Act One, I thought.
“Gin and tonic? Thank God
you turned up. I can tell some-
one; get the thing off my chest,
Two of the old girls. And each
time 1 was on duty. Enough
tonic? On duty both times, wot
you. Very selfish, sinister,
malicious and disgrace-makmg
And all so. .50... He handed
me my drink
How ab ° ut ’ 1 Sald ’ stanmg
at P® int - A -„
Murder, he said.
Go hon.
“Murder most foul. Suicide,
JealouJy> lanacy> the lotr
“The suspense,” I said, “is
»
k *l si f down _, he said . .. Do you
g ve mi „ u tes befor y e j
* rd iust seen . o ff the
witch to the morgue?
Discreetl Back-alley job: past
the cok J heaps ;. '
i ” T felt T had
• B 1 i? pbrow ‘
raised a h eyeor .
“All, right, all right Toss that
down. He poure
L he am )
who knows.
what?
‘Oh dont be tah-some! 11l
start at point-A; just give me
a burl.” He sat down. I could
see him arranging his thoughts
like a Conrad character; he
drank ; he began.
“'THIS place is a madhouse—
notoriously so, not just my
opinion. In the hotel-racket it’s
called Worthington’s Circus.
Papa Worthington owns it, lock,
stock, fire-extinguisher to cellar,
every cockroach behind the bain-
marie, every souvenired liqueur-
glass. Inherited in the ’twenties
before this suburb got seedy.
At least before the seediness
started to show. He was the
only son, spoiled little Lord
Fauntleroy. He’s an old maid
now; married to an old maid.
Not pub-types like his mum and
dad, who ran a pretty dazzling
show.
“He’s got plenty of hoot; has
shares in everything from here to
Perth and is just not interested in
being Mr. Ritz. The Galahad
is merely, home to him. So long
as it’s clean, and everything is as
his dear mum and dad left it,
he’s as happy as Larry. Who
is Larry ? All he and Mrs. W-
ever do is travel and buy appall-
ing objets dart; their suite is like
the sort of place you’d expect
Boris Karloff to live in. Don’t
worry me, is his idea, just keep
on as Mum did.
“Perhaps he’s right. It certainly
means good solid food, linen
sheets, cedar furniture and no
nasty questions about expense so
long as it’s nothing to do
with Americanisation, chromium,
public-address systems, wireless,
all that sort of thing. But he
won’t throw anything away: you
know how the rich always break
their fingernails undoing the
string on parcels?
“Afterwards I’ll show you the
storerooms and the disused
nurseries, smoking-rooms and
music-rooms all chockablock
with Sheffield-plate teapots,
Venetian-glass finger - bowls,
Waterford jugs, candlesticks,
hundreds of marble clocks,
cruets, tureens and celery-
glasses. One old writing-room
is packed to the ceiling with
chamber-pots. Waste not, want
not. And the patching and
mending goes on all the time:
lino., carpet, mats, sheets,
blankets, loose-covers. There’s a
carpenter-johnny wearing one of
those baize apron-things who's
been patch, patch, patching for
forty years. Look!”
He rose, opened the door to
his bathroom: a deep bath set
in mahogany, a washhand-basin
and lavatory-bowl with a design
in Willow-Pattern-blue.
“Early Doulton,” he said.
“Now look at the floor.”
It was of gleaming sheet-lead
patched in twenty places with
exquisite squares and rectangles
of newer lead.
“See? Papa Worthington
doesn’t want new things. Or new
ideas. Why has he got Rockleigh,
the near-dipso., as manager?
And me as assistant? Because
we’re mild bunnies willing to
jog along in the old way. A
bright and shiny boy from the
Hotel Managers’ High School
in Michigan or wherever would
be out on his bee, you, em at
the first peep about laminated
wood or shilling-in-the-slot wire-
less-sets.”
“Point-A yet?” I said.
“Have another drink, paysan,
and don’t . . . be . . . tah-some!
I’m explaining the kind of hotel
it is. Certain sorts of pubs attract
certain sorts of guests.” He was


ML
H#* n\\\e tte
It costs no more to buy Blue Gillette Blades
in a dispenser! Factory-sharp blades, that
give you the best shave you've ever had,
are unwrapped ready to slip from dispenser
to razor instantly, and there's a place for
used blades, too! You can use the dispenser
with any razor, but for superspeed shaving,
use witn the Gillette quick-action razor.
Superspeed Sets cost from as little as 10/6.
m
/0\
Wm
m
m
Wr.
N
£l
IK
■
W.
'
m
: I '
x'
n
fv
IB
f
mi
e .Wi
Gil
asm
ijtwn sM,t
uaißuat
AND...a place for used blades
/nOIUTM CHAMP
\fORDISPMSIR
Gillette
10-BLADE DISPENSER 44)
10-BLADE PACKET. 4/4
5-BLADE PACKET, 2/2
Cl 57A
pouring drinks again. “This
one’s a leftover from what the
Readers’ Digest’ would call
'more spacious days.’ So are the
stopped clocks, and cruets, and
marble virgins. All leftovers.”
He sat. The drinks were strong.
His voice had lost much of its
back-row-of-the-gods pitch. “So
are its permanent guests.”
JjE drank again. “Leftovers!
The place has about thirty
of these permanents—like a . . .
a home for retired gentlewomen.
Bishops’ spinster daughters,
Anglo-Indian widows, superan-
nuated deaconesses you know
the type: eking-out allowances,
savings or legacies, bitching at
the waitresses and chambermaids,
always shooting the roller-blinds
right up. Something’s always
too hot or too cold. Or not early
enough. Or late again . . .”
I saw what he meant. I knew
them: gunmetal-grey stockings ;
long, narrow shoes; crocodile-
skin handbag containing scraps
of a richer past; the brown
snapshots of the 1920 tennis-
party at Kuala Lumpur; the
clipped, juiceless voices:
“Oh, Mr. Gaar-Smith, Ai don’t
want to make trouble for the
gels. Yet Ai do feel that the gel
on mai teble is not quaite . . .
well, frankly, she’s vedy sleek.
Mai toast this morning was
barely „ .
I could see the obsessive glitter ,
in ageing eyes: Food, the god
of the lonely, the god of many
communions. Tea in bed. Break-
fast. Morning-tea: Lunch.
Afternoon-tea. Dinner. Supper.
“Some of the old bags,” he
said, “eat more than a stevedore
father-of-nine. Imagine a sjlvery-
haired little-old-lady-passing-by.”
His voice became bitterly
falsetto, he peered at an
imaginary menu:
“ ‘Now, wetress, let me see.
Ai’m not vedy hungry this morn-
ing. But breakfast is such an
important meal ; Ai’d better trai
end nibble something. Cereals
... End fruit. What is the fruit?
Oh, I’m vedy fond of pears;
bring me three . , . no . . . four
pieces. Kedgeree, this morning'
Oh, Ai adore it. Kedgeree then
—end on buttered toast, not drai.
Perhaps, too, a nice piece of
steak, end tomatoes. Wetress,
tell chef it’s for me ; he knows
Ai laike it medium. Not too rare.
Not all draid up. End I’ll hev
a fraid egg with thet’ . . . Never
fear, my boy, Mother Machree
will get through the lot like a
grey-nurse. ‘Toast end marma-
lade. More toast, please, wetress.
End some more butter, wetress.’ |
Then she’ll sit frail and fretting
till morning-tea.
“Then she’ll be ready to wait
for tiffin. My God, they’ve got
me saying it. That’s what half
of them call it: ‘Ai thought the
tiffin-gong was a little leet. Mai
watch says three minutes past.’
Tiffin! In this little Chicago, in
1956, with bodgies and widgies
about to batter through the
revolving doors with Coca-cola
bottles! I need another drink.”
T WAS beginning to understand
how he felt as keeper of this
female zoo of genteel pythons
who had nothing to do except
read Frances Parkinson Keyes,
gossip, vilify, take purgatives and
eat.
It was in the dining-room
beneath the noble stained-glass
posturings of Burne - Jones
Galahads, Geraints, Gareths and
Guineveres that trouble began.
At a dominating table,
attended by a waitress who
served no one else, Mr. and Mrs.
Worthington royally disregarded
the world from behind an
elaborate epergne. They were
sacrosanct; the year could have
been 1913. Almost equally sacro-
sanct were the spinsters and
widows whose small tables lined
the walls so that the intruding
fly-by-nights, the mobile Present,
occupying central tables, were
hemmed-in by the static and
withering Past, each with her
still-life on the cloth before her
of bottles of digestive-tablets,
jars of anchovy-paste, chutney,
special marmalade or Dusseldorf
mustard.
Some had sat at one table for
twenty years. Solitary, with the
unwinking eyes of barracoota,
they contemptuously assessed the
intransigents from the vulgar
world of nylon, jet-planes and
divorce. Behind Gaar-Smith’s
increasingly acid comment I felt
the pathos and horror of these
macabre spectators: how many
hundreds —thousands —had they
silently rejected beneath the
lofty ceiling, with its double row
of moulded acanthus-wheels
from which depended those
involved electroliers?
Most ghastly was his descrip-
tion of the corridor outside the
dining-room. It was customary
for the manager on duty to
unlock the twelve-foot-high
double-doors of plate-glass, sand-
blasted and gold-leafed with art
nouveau floridities and with
serpentine art nouveau handles
of bronze. This happened when
the gong had been beaten to
silence.
But, long before this, Gaar-
Smith’s old hags, bats, trouts,
trisses and faggots, the colonels’
widows and the daughters of
judges who had died younger
than their old-maid survivors,
powdered froglike throats, wait-
ing, spitefully examining the
little cloisonne watches pinned
to their sapless breasts. This
elderly queuing for food
had, in that setting, a taint
of unbalance. Suicide, murder,
mayhem, cannibalism seemed
not unlikely. What were they
really waiting for?
The stiff drinks were having
effect: impartiality and objec-
tivity were losing ground.
“Note and note well,” said
Gaar-Smith, pouring out the
fifth —or was it the sixth? —
gin-and-tonic, “that gent.-on-
duty unlocks door.” His accent
had lost its drama-school suc-
culence, was down-to-earth and
re-Gippslandised.
“Press on,” I said. “You
interest me, Mr. Gaar-Smith,
sir.”
“We-e-ell,” he sucked at his
drink, “some of the crazed old
harpies get into their skulls the
erroneous idea that certain
tables are in better possies than
others. Quite arbitrarily. Or
because they hate someone.
Then they’ll scheme and lie like
Lucifer. They’ll do . . . any-
thing.” He drank again, glared
at nothing. “Anything,” he
repeated. He went on:
“About three months ago one
of them went off to foist herself
on a rich nephew in South
Aussie for a couple of
months”
“Foist?” I said. “Don’t be
too tough. She may have been
asked. Aunts are.”
He fixed me with tipsy
severity: “You don’t know ’em.
Tough as mallee-roots, a bite like
a tiger-snake. No relative could
put up with any of ’em for two
hours. Why are they all here?
Because none of their families
can bear them. People don’t
hurl helpless old girls into the
hard world. These aren’t help-
less. Oh, far from it. They have
the money ; Worthington’s mad ;
they’re mad, and there’s lots of
lovely food. I wouldn’t trust one
of those . .
on, go on,” I said. “Very
sorry. Go on.”
“O.K. This old aunt, Beau-
fort by name, is was like
something out of Barrie ; all big
blue eyes, lavender-water and
bunions. So sweet; such pink
little cheeks: ‘Oh, Mr. Gaar-
Smith, Ai’m so sorry to bother
you, but you know Ai’m going
away for fwo months. Now,
about mai little teble. Ai’ve had
it for faive years, end Ai’m most
etteched to it. Ai expect it when
Ai return. Ai’m certain you’ll
keep it for me.’ And she gave me
the smile of a madonna and an
envelope with four-bob in it and
—off to upset things in Adelaide.
“I, dear man, would have kept
her table for her ; the here-today-
and-gone-tomorrows could have
used it when we were in a hole,
but only for lends, not for
keepies. Yes, I’d have kept her
bloody four-bob table for her—
I’m no neck-sticker-outer. But
I’m ess, ell, oh, double-you ; and
just a Gippsland moron ; these
dolls are supersonic. No sooner
had Beaufort, frail as a leopard,
tottered to her taxi than another
old tartar was after me — pounce.
The taxi hadn’t even started.
‘Oh, Mr. Gaar-Smith, so sorry
to bother you but..
“This killer’s name was
Carlyle, and she was after Beau-
fort’s table.
“I can so-sorry with the best
of them: ‘l’m so sorry, Mrs.
Carlyle, but Miss Beaufort will
only be afaay for a time and
we’ve already arranged,’ etcetera,
etcetera, ‘and I’m so sorry and
I’m sure you understand.’ Of
course she was so sorry, too,
but she understood, she quaite
quaite understood. Jt was just
that she thought that with her
rheumatism, and her table was in
such a shocking draught . . .
Draught! You couldn’t get a
draught into that first-floor
dining-room if you were paid
to. But we’d played our little
scene, and away she minced and
I —poor silly, feckless, deluded
rustic —I heaved a sigh of relief.
“As you observe, I have no
illusions about these old crows,
but I knew they didn’t break the
rules, at least not in such a way
as to lay themselves open to
rebuke or even comment. Cold
(Continued on next page)


a
I mv
mm
mm
Wm
m
m.
mm
& # M
■i * M
WHAT ABOUT SSTTIHG'
m k
you W, SttMINA TROUSERS
®IL-
P.S.
That’s pretty good advice, Mother.
Even youngsters know that Stamina clothes
are made stronger and better, look smarter
and last longer.
Bill knows that, when he gets his
Stamina slacks he will feel good in them . ..
because they are made just as carefully as
Dad’s made to fit perfectly; made for
comfort from the finest pure-wool cloth in
Australia, and finely finished by Stamina’s
top-class craftsmen.
CLOTHES
ASK FOR A | 9
btamuva
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
FOR MEN AND YOUTHS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
T 7.113
war's the shot: they work under-
ground like ferrets ; there’s no
losing of face—the decencies are
preserved on the surface ; they
stick to the letter of the game.
They’ll commit hair - raising
bitcheries, but always with back-
ing ; protocol is observed, and
there’ll be a foolproof justifica-
tion ; they’ll refer you back to
the nod they’ve been given with
the speed of light.”
“The next time I was on duty
there was Underground-agent
Carlyle at the Beaufort’s table.
She saw me gaping like a
Tasmanian shepherd who’s just
seen his baa-lamb gnawing away
at a fox. She beckoned me over
—archly is the word, as archly
as Clytemnestra. ‘Ai suppose you
think Ai’m being a notty gel.
Ai’m not, really.’ She sipped
some consomme, and I waited
for revelation, she intended I
should. Then, ‘Ai heppened to
see Mr. Worthington.’ More
consomme. Like hell heppened
to see! Lay in wait like fly-
paper. ‘Mr. Worthington was
asking about my rheumatism.
Ai explained about the draught.
He ebsolutely insisted thet I hev
Miss Beaufort’s teble. Ai’m sure
you understend.”
“I understood. I'm paid for
just that. I didn’t say even one
leetle word. How could I?
Worthington’s so-and-so Circus
and Papa W. cracking his whip
in a fine confusion. ’Nother
snort, old boy? All little Rupert
Gaar-Smith had to do was await
Beaufort’s return. That’s all:
the tumbril was on its way—
look, lil’ Rupert; there’s pretty
guillotine sparkling in morning
sunshine . .
He was getting drunk. I, too.
Nevertheless 1 could see the
maddening position he had been
forced into, the humiliation
brewing, the hand-tied im-
potency, the thought of Beaufort
and the four-shilling tip.
MISS BEAUFORT came back.
Mrs. Carlyle, in legalising
her own action, had also legalised
his defection. She had presented
Mr. Worthington’s fiat to him ;
he did the same to Miss Beaufort.
She was obviously shocked, went
an unusual color; he thought
she was about to faint. He hoped
that she would go raging to
Worthington, carry the squabble
to Olympus. She did nothing
except control herself, discipline
herself to say flatly and softly:
“So thet woman is to hev my
teble. After faive years . . . faive
years. Thet woman.” She closed
her eyes — was she going to faint?
She opened them again. Cold.
Blue.
“We shell see,” she said
slowly.
Next she began to walk away
down the long corridor doubly
reflected and lengthened to
infinity in the walls of looking-
glass at each end. He could see
their two selves repeated there
endlessly, diminishing away for
ever, the golden fence of brass
standard-ashtrays vanishing to
nothing. A few paces, and she
turned, ''came back to him—
lavender-water, blue eyes. “They
all seem to wear those blue eyes,”
he said thickly, “with a whitish
ring at the edge of the iris, like
.. . like .. .” But gin had
drowned the simile.
She looked at him callously
with those unseemly blue eyes:
“Mr. Gaar-Smith, Ai feel you
hev let me down bedly. It is
only raight for me to ask you
to return the gretuity you hev
decaidedly done nothing to
earn.”
Gratuity? Gratuity?
At first he did not understand,
and then did, and went crimson.
While she inexorably waited he
groped in his pocket: no silver.
The smallest money he had was
a ten-shilling-note which, as he
held it oafishly, she took. “Ai
hev no chenge,” she said. “Ai
shell send it down to you.” At
the next mealtime a waitress
brought him six shillings neatly
enclosed —not in an envelope ;
in a square of brown-paper.
A week later Mrs. Carlyle was
found dead on the tiles at the
foot of a stair-well.
CHE had apparently fallen from
five-floors-up through the
worm-eaten balustrade.
“I wash ... I was on duty.”
He was getting very drunk.
“About an hour before tiffin —
luncheon—was correcting error
in French on all the menus when
housekeeper told me. Now
’member . . . re-member this:
housekeeper, carpenter and I
were only ones in Galahad who
knew until hours-’n’-hours later
what had happened. Hotels
smother these sorts of things
quick-smart. No fuss, no scandal,
nothing nasty in woodshed.
Doctor, police, morgue-blokes
all teed-up pronto. Body whipped
out back way. Bingo! On with
the show! Ultimate verdict —
accidental death.”
He drank. His funny-man’s
goo-goo eyes were ludicrously
tragic: “I know it wasn’t. I
know, boy, it was not accidental.
No one could imagine what
sixty-year-old woman doing up
there in forbidden, disused sec-
tion, rooms filled with left
umbrellas and hats and port-
manteaux and furs. But old girls
bit odd, eh? they said. Odd!
“So Carlyle’s smuggled out
like a load of dirty laundry;
1 wash shaky little paws, comb
hair, down tiny brandy and—
Boom ! Boom ! Boom ! —the
lunch-gong. Got it? See it?
See it all? Old faggots in nice
clean pinnies lined up like
orphans outside e-nor-mous glass
doors, waitresses inside fiddling
with apron-bows and butter-
knives, me advancing avec poise
with key to holy door . . . walk,
walk. You know, long way, like
Valli at end of ‘The Third Man’
. . walk, walk, walk. Show mush
go on! Reach door. Turn key.
Hostess inside swings doors open
.. . smile, smile. In the old
trisses file. In files Beaufort.”
He stopped. While I waited
he drained his glass and yet
seemed to regain a little clarity
and sobriety.
“Honest to God I wasn’t even
thinking of her or her We-shall-
see act. But I seemed to notice
her specially; don’t know why.
“She walked to the table she’d
been using, walked firmly like —
like Lady Hamlet. No, no ; like
Lady Macbeth and the dagger
things. You know. She gathered
her collection of bicarb, and
j doodads—and her table-napkin,
and went straight as a die to her
old table; Carlyle’s table.
“She sat down, arranged her
paraphernalia, and began to read
the menu. It wasn’t until she was
through her entree that I realised
what was wrong,
“I was shattered, horrified. I
couldn’t think what I ought to
do? My hands started to shake
again. Not hers. She ate neatly
. finically . . . through four
courses.”
Then fiercely, to me: “Get it?
®et it?”
1 got it. Moreover, I was
willing to half-believe what he
fully believed: she had known,
before entering the dining-room,
that her old table would be
empty, would be hers again and
for ever now, till the end of
time if she and her money and
the Galahad could last so long.
However, it seemed common-
sense to suggest, even if it did
make her behavior still pretty
cold-blooded:
“Someone could have told
her.”
“No! Who? Who, man?
Housekeeper? Carpenter? Not
them. And no one else knew.”
“Somebody who saw the
body being carried out a
kitchen-boy hiding behind the
coke-bunkers.”
“No. Nobody. Anyway, all
covered up—head to foot. Oh,
I knew there’d be explanations
like yours. ’S why I kept my
mouth shut. No one else even
noticed Beaufort back at her
own table, I used your argu-
ments and practically convinced
myself I was loco: imagine
suspecting such a lad-ee-like dot
of a thing. Prac-tic-ally con-
vinced myself. Not any more.
Not after today.”
“Today?”
“I told you there were two
stiff-’uns. Beaufort was found
dead in bed this morning. You
should have heard the New
Australian chambermaid
screaming like an ambulance!
Overdose sleeping-pills. No note
on pillow. Accident! Of coarse.
Why should shweet, lavender-
scented, well-heeled old dear
commit suicide? Ac-ci-dent.”
He began to giggle drunkenly.
“Accident my truss! Conscience!
Must have had conscience after
all . . . conscience, eh . . .?
Believe now?”
IT didn’t really matter if I did.
I’d served my purpose. His
conscience at least was easier;
the parcel of unwantad informa-
tion had been divided into two.
Before I could answer him a
gong began, fervently, demoni-
acally, primitively, reverberating
through rooms of leftovers:
umbrellas lost decades ago.
candlesticks no one used, clocks
that had stopped on some
sunny day a long time ago.
“Dressing-gong! ” said Gaar-
Smith, and stumbled to the
washstand for another drink.
As the gong terribly thudded,
like drums of death, I imagined
withered fingers plucking rings
from china ring-trees, pinning
on brooches of rubies, lightly
powdering collapsed cheeks.
Gaar-Smith was giggling ana
giggiiag.
“Reahlly don't feel laike
dressing tonaight . . .not going
to hev any dinner tonaight . . •
someone else cen hev mai
teble . . .”
I understood.
THE BLACK CHAIR
This is a room will never be the same
Since that black, ugly chair surrounded
All that color and beauty share.
Separated by six feet of air,
We talked in voices which astounded
Me because no touch had made them tame.
Your voice, your eyes, music of air and light,
How could we have such strength to let
Them work alone ? Must our bodies destroy ?
If / were puritan or you were coy
That black chair could not mock me. Yet
A star’s no less in such a shabby night.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.


Men in Wool
us!
ass
-<s=-s2£SS!P
X
6s**?
/X/
/•>"
Ks>
/A
/"*
*■'
>v
S 2
DAL
stockmen on tin horses ..
. . . successors to the colourful pack-horsed boundary riders in the sprawling
saltbush and spinifex centre of Australia ... On a 2,000,000-acre station
abutting the Nullabor Plain, their buzzing hornets have spelt finis to arduous
mustering on the “sheep-10-40-acres” country, radiating 80 miles from the
station behind 400 miles of vermin-proof fencing needing constant patrol to
keep in order . . . Here a fleet of scooters, with Kelpies and Border Collies
trained to ride their footboards, have brought automation to the remote
interior.
Likewise Dalgety's dependable wool and stock-selling service, its merchan-
dising facilities, and its friendly advice and help to graziers, have brought the
most efficient and experienced service to the pastoral industry all over Australia.
IMalgetys
Always Dependable
15 BENT ST., SYDNEY, AND ALL STATES
THE LONG RIDE
By RAY MATHEW
TED WYLIE and I used to
talk about women. There
wasn’t much else we
could talk about (except
to grumble at our parents, the
jobs on the farm, the injustice of
it all), because Ted was mannish
and I was bookish, so we talked
about women a lot.
The books used to come to
me from the city, and as nobody
took any interest in what I read
I was able to tell Ted things
about men and women that you
couldn’t learn from watching
animals. And because Ted’s
father used to let him go into
the pub at Wenda when they
delivered wheat there he was
able to tell me things that you
couldn’t learn from reading
books.
Between us we knew every-
thing that was to be known,
because of which we wondered
and lamented. We decided that
we’d have to go away to the
city or we’d end like everyone
in Gungahla, old and stupid.
There was the Jeffers girl, of
course. She was learning to
be a nurse in the Big Town, forty
miles away, and she came home
sometimes. But she treated us
like kids, and although she
kissed me on the cheek once
after we’d been mushrooming
together, and told me I was “a
sweet boy,” that was as far as
it went.
Ted used to hover round the
Jeffers place like a hawk while
she was home, and she encour-
aged him. But when, sick of her
flirting and half-joking, he
grabbed at her and tried to hold
her she used her medical know-
ledge on him, so that he doubled
up and yelled, and she told him
to go home to his mother.
But who else was there? The
district was dying. Everyone
said so. And we could see it
for ourselves: there was only
us and the few kids at the school,
and no one else young. The
parents were all dreadfully old.
It would have to be the city.
Goodbye, home.
We talked about it a lot; how
to get there, how to make money,
how to find girls. Neither of us
had ever been, but I believed
that it was just as Judith Wright
said in a poem I read in The
Bulletin : “neon lights with the
girls at the corners with lips
like coals and thighs as silver as
florins.”
We used to go duck-shooting,
Ted with his gun. I wouldn’t
take one because Mum wouldn’t
cook them anyway, and I thought
it pointless just to kill. I even
convinced Ted of this, though
not until we had our only fight
—because he shot at a magpie
and it flew down to us, dying.
After that he just carried the gun
and practised shooting at trees,
or if he saw a black-duck shot
at it because they’re good eating
and pretty rare and his father
liked them.
We used to sit on the bank
away from the mud and the
leeches and lean on a stringybark
that just broke the sunlight. And
we used to talk then and go over
all that we knew: physiology,
with diagrams in the grey dirt;
and psychology, with examples
from local scandal but you
don’t believe this, not any of
it. There must have been some-
body, you’ll say. . .
■pEDALLING his pushbike like
■*- mad around the ploughed
paddock, Ted was in too much
of a hurry for the road. His
head bounced up and down with
the roughness, and he waved an
arm and a hat between lurches.
“Here comes the terror,” said
Dad. “If you must yarn with
him, walk round the ten-acre
while you’re doing it and look at
the fence. And you can get him
to take a shot at those blasted
cockatoos.”
I grabbed some wire and some
pliers to fix holes and went down
to meet Ted. When he saw me
coming he slowed down a bit and
put his hat on and rode like a
grown-up with both hands on
(he handle-bars, so slowly and
grown-upedly that the rifle slung
on his back hardly moved.
“Getting old?” I called.
He didn’t joke back ; just said
“Hallo,” explained there was
nothing wrong, and announced
that if the boss wanted some
cockies shot he was the boy to
do it.
He was so matter-of-fact and
ordinary and self-conscious that
1 knew he was bursting with news
and waiting for me to give him
a chance to show it off. So I
didn’t ask him any questions.
I just walked him round the
ten-acre paddock looking for
holes in the fence till he started
by himself.
I stood still and listened till
I remembered Dad might be
watching from the house. So we
walked a few yards more, and
then I knelt down towards the
fence as though I were fixing
it, and let Ted tell me properly.
There was a girl in town, the
Big Town. “Her name’s Stella,”
said Ted.
“Stella, a star,” I said, and
felt sick with envy or annoyance.
Ted tried to bluff about it;
that she was a special girl, that
it was all to his credit, that he
had a way with him. But he was
too excited really and too young,
then, to keep it up. She was
anyone’s girl, everyone’s pro-
bably, but that wasn’t the point.
She had been his, had been his.
And that was that.
And then, as though that and
the story was nothing, he took
a potshot for luck at the cocka-
toos that were squatting in the
kurrajong just near us. The shot
went wild and they flew away,
squawking, and settled-down in
the wheat-paddock. Dad would
like that!
“Your people go to town next
weekend,” said Ted. “It’s the
first in the month.”
“Yes.”
“Well, we’re going, too.” He
paused for a long time, and I
worked at the fence intently,
pretending to mend a hole. “I
could introduce you,” he said.
“I told her I had a mate.”
“How old is she?” I wasn’t
going to sound eager.
“About thirty,” he admitted
after a pause. “But she looks
good. She works in a shop.
Wears lipstick and stuff all the
time.”
I tightened the wire.
“All right,” I said. “I’ll ring
you on Friday.”
“Whacko!” said Ted, not to
be annoyed. “Aren’t we grown-
up?” And he fired a shot that
went pinging towards the house.
Close, too, as Dad pointed out
when we got back.
Friday afternoon I worked like
a slave. I chased the work-
horses out of the wheat-paddock
without being told. 1 brought the
cows in without dawdling. I
collected the eggs, even the ones
in the woodheap, and after tea
I got up to help clear.
“Very impressive,” said Dad.
“But we’re not going to town
tomorrow, and you can’t have
any more money for books.”
“Not going? Then can’t I go
in with the Wylies? Ted and
I”
“We’re going to bring in that
patch of early wheat. Before
the cockies eat it all,” said Dad.
“But . , . it’s special. Ted
and I”
“Ted and you! ” shouted Dad.
“Didn’t the red-headed terror
nearly shoot your mother?”
“Let them go, Dad.” Mum
was on my side. “What’s special
about it, Will?”
“Oh”—I said, pulled up
sudden-like. “The the pic-
tures.”
Dad snorted. “The boy’s got
to learn. He can listen to the
wireless.”
“Listen to the wireless!” I
said. “It isn’t the same.”
T RANG Ted to tell him I
couldn’t go. One long and
one short was the ring for
Wylies, and I rang it like a
death-knell.
Ted answered the phone. He
was as sympathetic and as
indignant about the injustice as
he could dare be with his own
tyrants sitting in the same
room and heaven knows who
listening on the party-line. Then
Mrs. Wylie got on and asked me
to stop making Ted dreamy,
because he was becoming
ridiculous and terribly lazy and
would I put on my mother. She
and Mum settled down to talk.
Dad read the paper (two days
old) and I sat down and felt
bitter (and perhaps a bit
relieved). But with a book open
in front of me, to hide behind,
in case my face looked “sulky”:
I didn’t want to be picked on
for that, too.
That night it rained. It
shouldn’t have rained, of course ;
it had been a perfectly red
sunset. Even Dad hadn’t seen
a sign of rain. It was just one
of those stupid, man-maddening
western showers that come out
of nowhere, from a cloud like
your fist, just when you don’t
want any, and then go away.
Just when he didn’t want rain.
I did.
It meant the wheat couldn’t
come in. It rots if you harvest
it wet.
“Can I go to town with the
Wylies?”
“The terrible twins,” said Dad,
sighing. “All right.”
I rushed to the phone . . .
one long, one short. . . but there
was no answer. They were gone.
The Wylies always left at dawn.
Mr. Wylie was an old-timer and
wouldn’t trust the car. He
always left two hours early no
matter where he was going, in
case of breakdowns. I rang
again, and wished all old-timers
to hell.
“They’ve gone,” I said. “Can
I stand on my head?”
“Don’t get vicious. You can
do what you like,” said Dad.
“It’s Saturday, isn’t it?”
“Is it?” I went out on to the
veranda before he could throw
anything and banged my fist
on the post as hard as I could.
It hurt, and I held it to my
mouth and looked at the place.
We were on a rise, a hundred
feet in two miles. Everywhere
was flat except the gibber hill that
grew out of the bottom-paddock
and the range on the horizon a
blue, impossible distance away.
There was a line of trees where
the creek went, and near them
the shiny-tin roof of the Widow
McCormack’s that the ducks
mistook for glaring water and
tried to land on. There was
Wylies’ five miles away, hidden
by pepper-trees, and there was
nothing and no one on the road.
There were cockatoos all over
the dead gum near the fowlyard.
“Bloody fools!” I said to
them. “Get on to the wheat, go
on! Eat it, you beggars, eat it! ”
But I didn’t say it very loudly,
and I went in to breakfast when
I was called.
A black meal. Even Mum
said I was sulky, and when I
groaned about having to separate
the milk Dad threw a hammer
at me (aiming to miss, though!)
and said I had a black dog in
my face, and to get away out of
sight until I was a human being
again.
“Can I take Cobber?” Cobber
was our neal horse, Dad’s horse.
“An animal like you!” said
Dad. “You can ride Mickey till
you grow up.”
“Better than staying here! I
won’t be back for dinner.”
“If you keep your mother’s
tea waiting”
“All right, all right! I heard,
I heard,” and I went muttering
out of range. I grabbed some
apples in the kitchen, and got
the saddle and bridle.
(Continued on page 34)


JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
0°“
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
m
•
, ’
X:
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no new
cavities whatever for almost 2 out of 3 people.
Hi
Keeps children's teeth hecriihy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate way
of brushing teeth'right after eating stopped
decay for more people than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history. Your
teeth are whiter brighter and you
are assured of round-the-clock protection
against decay-causing enzymes.
Colgate Dental Creae is Australia's largest
America’s largest tbe watt’s largest sellieg dental cream
Get the Family Economy Ske and save 1/8.
G233D
Ci/RRD
Ca&ky
sufitlv O'
PROTECTA „
SUnl- HtyilkMrtU/
Suitable for every type of business It record*
alt Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold St Co. Pty. Ltd*
, Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
, Vardon Price Ltd.
# Docket Book Co. (Aufct.i
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Boom.
• New Banquet Rooms lor
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modern Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathroom*.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Research in Industry
No. 3 of a Series
(gossamer Strength
In March, 1941, a chemist working in a laboratory in Great Britain
touched a mass of molten plastic with a glass rod. As he drew the rod
away, the effect he had hoped for occurred. A shining gossamer filament
was formed, which hardened in the cool air. This filament ■— now know
as “Terylene” can be made into new and wonderful of every
kind. The immense and costly task of developing Terylene from a
chemist’s experiment to full-scale production has been undertaken by
1.C.1. In the beginning, a sum of £10,000,000 was spem. on the first
full-scale manufacturing plant at 1.C.1.’s Wilton works in North York-
shire. Such was the faith in the future of Terylene, however, that it
was decided to double the output, and the enlarged about
£25,000,000, is now working to an annual capacity ot 22,00U,00U lbs. oi
staple fibre and filament yarn. ... c .
Already slacks, suits and skirts incorporating this new fibre or yarn
can be purchased in Australia, and, when supplies are freely available,
“Terylene” dresses, underwear, socks and shirts light and easy to
wash, yet warm and soft will be in all the shops.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
L. SOB. 4330'
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To sell copies of the following:
By Reef and Palm, by Louis Becke;
Strictly Business, by O. Henry;
Thomas Moore's Lalla Rookh; Fresh
Fields (author’s edition), by John
Burroughs; Sketches on Lavender, by
Jerome 11. Jerome. —6407.
To buy print of Capt. Cook’s ship,
H.M.S. Endeavour. —6408.
To buy copies of On Our Selection
(1899), Our New Selection (1903),
Sandy’s Selection (1904), Back at Our
Selection (1906), The Poor Parson
(1907), Dad in Politics (1908), Stock-
ing Our Selection (1909), Duncan
McClure (1909), From Selection to
City (1909), The Book of Dan (1911),
and Grandpa’s Selection (1916), all by
“Steele Rudd.” —6409.
Does Anybody Know?
The name given to a collector of
matchbox-labels —to correspond with
“philatelist” for stamp-collector? Any
societies formed by such hobbyists?
Information Sought
A method of drying or dehydrating
mushrooms ?
Not all mushrooms can be dried:
some collapse into deliquescence as
they age, so try a small batch first.
Choose well-grown mushrooms in
which the gills are fully-developed but
have not turned very dark. Remove
the stems (usually flavorless), and
wipei clean the smooth caps. They
should not be wet. Lay them out,
gills uppermost, on clean white paper
for slow drying in a moderate oven
(perhaps with the door open). When
they are quite dry and can be
crumbled, allow them to cool to room-
temperature. Store in dry, sterilised
jars.
* * • *
(1) What Australian infantry-units
took part in the Kokoda Trail battle ?
(2) Was 55 Battalion in the campaign ?
(3) If not, in what actions did it take
part? (4) Who was 55 Bn.’s C.O. at
the time ?
(1) 30 Brigade (39 and 53 Bns),
21 Brigade (2/14, 2/16 and 2/27
Bns), 25 Brigade (2/25, 2/31 and 2/33
Bns), 3 Battalion, 2/1 Pnr. Bn., 2/6
Ind. Coy., P. 1.8., and 16 Brigade (2/1,
2/2 and 2/3 Bns). (2) 55 Battalion
was not committed in the decisive
battles. With 36 Battalion as part
of 14 Brigade, it was in reserve behind
25 Brigade on lmita Ridge, north of
Moresby. (3) On Oct. 31, 1942, 55
Bn. became the 55/53 Bn. It took
part in the Buna-Gona campaign, as
part of 30 Bde., was in action along
the Sanananda road, and later went
to Rabaul. (4) Lt.-Col. D. J. H.
Lovell became C.O. of the battalion
on Aug. 11, 1942, remaining in
command until May 8, 1945, when he
was transferred to the Reserve of
Officers. He was then succeeded by
Lt.-Col. P. M. Shanahan.
* * * *
(1) Brief particulars of novelist
Henry Fletcher ? (2) List of his
books?
(1) Born in London in 1856, he
came to Australia in 1872 while a
ward in chancery. IJe lived in turn
in Tasmania, N.S.W., Queensland and
N.Z., then went back to England and,
after marrying, lived for many years
in France. Returning to Australia, he
settled in Sydney and began to write.
He died at Nelson (N.Z.) in 1932.
(2) He wrote the Waybacks series,
humorous tales of selection-life, with
amusing city-contacts, after the
manner of “Steele Rudd.” The series
comprises The North Shore Mystery
0899), The Waybacks in Town and
at Home (1902), Dads Wayback: His
Work (1904), Red Harry (1906), Dads
and Dan: Between Smokes (1908),
and The Waybacks Again, or Love at
Dingo Flat (1909),
* * * * *
(1) Some information on the
macadamia-nut and its potential in
Australia ? (2) What of reports of
improved methods of growing the nut
in Hawaii?
[lnformation supplied by H. Broad-
foot, Chief, Division of Horticulture,
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture.]
(1) Macadamias are grown in Aus-
tralia from seedlings. Naturally, the
produce of seedlings varies a good deal
in such important characteristics as
size of nut, thickness of shell, and
yields; but local attempts to
propagate good types by budding or
grafting have so far been unsuccess-
ful. The seeds, planted in a nursery
in autumn, are usually large enough
for transplanting at 12-months.
Orchard-plantings are at intervals of
24-30 ft., according to soil and other
conditions. The trees yield a few
nuts at about eight-years, but it is
usually about twelve years before
a worth-while yield is produced. In
a favorable season aged trees yield
from 501 b. to 701 b. of nuts. It is not
uncommon to find macadamia-trees
bearing heavy and light crops
alternately. In the past the nuts were
disposed of in the shell, and returns
to growers were around Is. 3d. or
Is. 4d. a pound. However, the
industry is now receiving more atten-
tion on the North Coast (N.S.W.) and
in Queensland, and attempts are being
made to establish a market for pro-
cessed macadamia-kemels in bulk and
in consumer-packages similar to other
nuts. Net returns to growers are at
present around Is. 7d. a pound. (2)
Reports indicate some success in
vegetative propagation in Hawaii, but
a large proportion of trees grown there
are from seedlings.
Brief Answers
R. No darned fear! C.T.0.:
Dominant (Saltash-Weltea) brought
6750gns. in the sale-ring A.R.P.:
(1) There were 25 passengers and
crew aboard the Joyita when she sailed
from Apia for the Tokelau on Oct. 3,
1955. (2) Apia is the capital of West
Samoa, on the island of Upolo. It
is a seaport with radio-station and
observatory; population, approxi-
mately 1400. (3) The Tokelau (.or
Union) Islands, a small group of
South Pacific islands, north of Samoa.
They form part of the Gilbert and
Ellice Islands Colony, placed under
New Zealand jurisdiction in 1926 and
in 1948 declared part of New
Zealand. The chief islands are
Fakaofo, Nukunono and Atai'u. Area,
four square-miles; population,
approximately 1600... .C.F.: The his-
tory of Grenfell and the Weddin
Shire (N.S.W.) is told in Golden
Granary, by William A. Bayley, pub-
lished jointly by the Grenfell
Municipal Council and the Weddin
Shire Council at Grenfell J.T.: So
Much for Sydney 1 by J. E. Webb
(former editor of The Bulletin), can
be obtained from the Editorial
Department, The Bulletin, Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney; price 35., postage 3d.
....F.W.: The Sydney agents for
Chambers's Encyclopedia are George
Newnes (Australia) Pty., Ltd., Singer
Building, 119 York-street, Sydney.
P.O’B.: Write A. N. Curphey*
General-Manager, Victorian Cham-
ber of Manufactures, 312
Flinders-street, Melbourne N.S.:
Write Hugh Hunt, Executive Director,
Australian Elizabethan Theatre
Trust, 25 a Pitt-street, Sydney
S. The Town Clerk of Sydney
advises that there are not any
Council records available which would
provide details of an eisteddfod held
in the Sydney Town Hall about 1893,
in which the Wallsend-Plattsburg
choir won the “Hallelujah Chorus.”
However, it is thought that an inquiry
addressed to Mr. J. Stagg, Driver, c/o
Railway Loco Depot, Broadmeadow,
may provide some result... .M.N.L.:
(From Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock.) Quite a
number of crops of potential value on
the North Queensland coast have been
under investigation at Department of
Agriculture and Stock experiment-
stations at Ayr, Sputh Johnstone and
Kamerunga. While some crops can
be grown successfully, cost of pro-
duction is fairly high. The Director
of Tropical Agriculture, Department
of Agriculture and Stock, Cairns,
would be able to advise you which
crops, if any. would be worth while
developing in association with
vegetable-growing R.C.0.: Eight
—Shark, Spectacle, Goat, Clark,
Cockatoo, Rodd, Schnapper, Fort
Denison W.J.F.: (1) Wallabies
seem to avoid areas where poisoned
baits have been laid or snares set.
Anyone wishing to snare or in any
other way take wallabies in Queens-
land must have an open-season
fauna-permit. (2) The beagle-hound
is used in North Queensland to keep
wallabies away from cane-crops. The
beagle ranges in the early morning,
when wallabies feed, and drives them
away from the vicinity A.P.:
Waterglass is a good egg-preservative.
Obtainable from most grocers and
hardware stores Lindsay (Q.):
Unable to trace anyone stocking them,
but there should be a good chance
of obtaining them from a nursery in
your own State. An Arthur Yates and
Co. expert advises: Unless you have
good facilities for raising seed, you
will find these hard to grow. Maiden-
hair spores have to be got very ripe
before the seed is sown. Sow the
seed only on top of the soil; do not
cover with soil. Then cover the seed
with glass, placing between the glass
and soil thin strips of wood (about
lead-pencil thickness) —to save the
seed from sweating, and to prevent
the air from getting through on to the
soil. Keep the soil moist, but not
damp.... A.C.P. (Jackson County,
U.S.A.): Arthur Yates and Co. Pty.,
Ltd., advise that the following
varieties are obtainable from Hazel-
wood Brothers, Pty., Ltd., Kent-street,
Epping, N.S.W.: Tacsonia manicata
(scarlet, summer); T. mollissima
(banana-passionfruit; pink, spring);
T mortii (red, summer); Passiflora
edulis (edible; fruiting-passionfruit);
P sanguinolenta (small, reddish-
violet) J.8.D.: Write The Director,
Fisheries Branch, Chief Secretary’s
Department, Box 30, G.P.0., Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A lame and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.E.: U’re off:
U
So you don’t like me rollin’ me own
Or blowin’ the froth off me brew
And you won’t stand a fellow a loan ?
Well, I think that all youse are non-U.
Then you say I been pinchin’ your place
And shovin’ me frame in the queue.
1 don’t like the looks on your face
And 1 think that all youse are non-U.
If you don’t like me dunkin’ me cake
Or dippin’ me bread in me stew.
You can flamin’ well jump in the lake,
’Cause I think that all youse are non-U !
M.W.S.: Very poor jingle.
Impossible to send personal answers
to every budding poet... .R.L.8.:
They neither act nor talk like
dinkum shearers R.J.F.: Turned
to the last page, confident that the
crows had got him. They had
T.S.A.: Feeble parodies, and you
make it worse by writing on both
sides of the paper... .S.M.G.: We
can spare you four lines:
I’m not ashamed that I did cry
When my poor old dog he did die;
I can hardly think a man could be
So faithful as that dog to me.
But what’s got us beaten is how the
dog “nailed his colors to the mast”?
... .PJ.L.: The eloping wife who
turns back at the sight of her hus-
band's undarned socks crops up
almost every mail C.K.: “Will you
take > a look at my feeb'le verses in
praise of a very fine horse?” We
pass no opinion on the horse; but
you are a good judge of the poetry.
H.F.: We don’t know another
soul who would take the proletarian
by the scruff of the neck and try to
make him rhyme with aquarium....
N.C.:
Pencil and paper, pen and ink,
Give me silence, let me think.
After which promising start you let
us down with chatter about sunsets
and goblins and fairies and fauns.
G.S.: Youth and maid —tiff-
meeting in fun-parlor—reunited; and
you want fifteen-guineas for it 1....
K. 8.: When you write of places like
that you want to make them so real
that the readers can feel the
mosquitoes biting N.C. : Johnny
waiting outside picture-Show with
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
flowers for Marilyn Monroe waited
there 40 years ago for Theda Bara.
R.H.: Don’t waste time girding
at the critic; put it into improving
your work... .P. 8.: There are busy
days when we have as many as hall -
a-dozen dream-ships jostling one
another for anchorage in the basket.
A.R.Q.: Drowning girl, brave
young man, marriage—an old and
easy p10t... .K.E.F.: Judge from
your very long poem that the south
wind can be cold at times— .J.D.:
Rejected your lengthy masterpiece
beginning:
And our corns growing worse soon make
us curse,
While boots that have worn holes in socks
heels and soles.
P.D.L.: For a moment we
thought that Nat Gould had returned
io life P.J.: Poor minstrelsy,
unredeemed by the desperate attempt
to rhyme “Christmas” with “seven-
and-sixpence”... .H.M.: No poet's
eye there, only a rhymed inventory.


A Couple from the Case-book
Confidence-tricks that Work
By DON JORDAN
They do the town together,
they see some shows, watch the
neddies and, if it is Show-time,
do the whole circuit of the
grounds without getting lost more
than once or twice.
Then the con.-man, or his con-
federate, carefully places a
wallet somewhere. It contains a
thick roll. In company with his
victim, the con.-man finds it.
The wallet is returned eventu-
ally to its grateful owner, who
happens to be the con.-man's
confederate.
By way of saying “Thank-
you,” the confederate tells the
con.-man and the victim that he
can give them something better
than any normal award. He bids
them lean closer, and speaks low.
He just happens to be a
broker who can put them onto
something good in shares. Or
he just happens to be a racing-
man who has arranged a betting-
coup for the Welter at Randwick
on Saturday.
Whatever he happens to be,
the system is the same. The
con.-man and his victim are
drawn into a transaction with
the man who wants to show his
gratitude for getting back his
wallet. They both hand over
money. And that is that.
Too easy? Elementary? But
there is very subtle psychology
in it. The right-looking con.-men
and confederates have brought
it off so often that police have
officially dubbed the trick as
“Placing the Wallet.”
Case B .
TyOW, imagine yourself to be
a big businessman, or, if
you are already one, play hard
to get, and see how you would
fare with this one.
Simply, it consists of the
private buying and selling of
stocks and shares. With the right
information, that can be a very
lucrative game.
It might start off in the best
pub in town, or on an ocean-
liner, but the first move is
always the same. The con.-man,
posing as a person of wealth,
carefully selects the victim. The
con.-man wears immaculate
clothes and offers cigarettes from
a gold case and lights them with
a 24-carat flame.
The victim finds his acquain-
tance is a red-hot businessman,
who, as they get to know each
other better, might even make a
couple of correct predictions
about the market. Their friend-
ship blossoms.
After a couple of months —
the con.-man’s greatest attribute
is patience—when the victim has
got to the stage of bringing him
home to dinner after drinks at
the club, the con.-man starts his
work in earnest. He shows the
victim a letter. The notepaper
has a very conspicuous letter-
head.
“My uncle,” explains the con.-
man, and thereby shoots-up
further in the other’s estimation.
How typical of his new friend’s
modesty not to mention before
that his uncle was the head of
So-and-so’s. For the letter is
from a big firm in the U.S.A.,
which the victim is very sure he
knows of, and Uncle is its head.
This could be good, thinks the
victim.
It is. It appears that Uncle’s
firm wants to buy-in all the
shares in its company. They are
soon to amalgamate with Ajax
Consolidated (or some such
show), which, as the victim
knows, is an exceptionally
wealthy company.
When that happens, the letter
explains, the shares in Uncle’s
company are going to skyrocket
from their present ss. (Aus-
tralian) each.
Now, the amalgamation is on
the secret-list. Nothing is to
be made public till it happens.
WHEN M. F. Caiman, chief
of Sydney’s C. 1.8., said
recently that there’d
been a tidy increase in
crime (but also in successful
crime-detection) over about the
past year he wasn’t concerned
about those spry fry the con-
fidence-men.
He had said earlier that the
C. 1.8. had made it a bit hot
for the con.-fraternity.
Caiman has seen days when
the company of con.-men was
mighty, with their receipts rang-
ing from small-change to real
academy-awards up in the thou-
sands, with any park-seat, any
big hotel their stage.
Asked for a detail or two, he
emphasised that his opinion that
con.-men have just about had it
applies only to those here in
Australia. The ones who have
hied overseas—to Paris, London,
New York and any other big
city you could think of —are
still occasionally fleecing people,
worrying Caiman’s colleagues,
and confirming world police
opinion that con.-men from Aus-
tralia are the pastmasters of
their persuasive art.
Most of the ones now abroad
can’t come home; they’d walk
straight into handcuffs, and they
know it. Of those who are at
home, most are leading lives of
the respectable now, retired. The
balance are in quod.
Through special squads in all
States, like the Consorting Squad
in N.S.W., police have come to
know every con.-man’s trade-
mark, and what he has in his
bag of tricks. These days, when
anyone is taken down, the police
can riffle through index-cards and
good memories, and come up
with a very likely answer.
And it’s a rare occurrence for
a new con.-man to start-up in the
business and be successful, for
to do that he needs to have
a lot of qualifications.
He has to be a good talker, a
good mixer, a good psychologist.
He needs a knowledge of finance,
of banking, of stocks and shares
—better than the people he is
going to fleece, and they are
often hard-headed businessmen.
In fact, he needs some of the
know-how of the tycoon; and
there may be a moral there
somewhere.
He needs to be able to gain
the confidence of people of any
class, if he is going to make a
steady income. He needs to be
a first-rate actor, living for
weeks and months sometimes in
whatever role he picks for a
particular case. He may choose
to be a banker, he may choose
a baker, and he has to act like
one right to the end.
Just as samples, here are two
of the hundreds of known
confidence-tricks. The first is
fairly simple, but has a very wide
field of possible victims. The
second is quite intricate, more
limited in its application, and
could be said to be a business-
man’s special.
If, placing yourself in the role
of the victim, you find yourself
getting suspicious enough, purely
on the facts presented to you,
to call the gendarmes before you
part with your money, then
you’re more astute than dozens
have been, some of them brilliant
businessmen. Maybe you are in
the wrong profession. But if you
change it, don’t take up
"conning” ; for, as Caiman says,
the game is not worth a crumpet
these days.
Case A.
THE confidence-man sights a
1 likely victim who seems to
be a stranger in the Big Smoke.
He strikes-up a chance acquain-
tance with him, but does not
rush the matter, and the victim
finds that he has acquired a very
amiable guide and companion.
The opportunity therefore exists,
writes Uncle in a stilted, con-
vincing, business way, to buy
shares at a favorable price, hang
onto them a little while, and then
sell them at an enormous profit.
Uncle breaks into a new para-
graph, in which he gives the
names and addresses of three
people living in Australia who
are holding considerable shares
in his company. He advises his
nephew to get in touch with
them and to try to buy their
shares. He authorises him to
offer as much as 7s. for each
share, and to buy all he can.
Uncle then gives the name
and address of a Paris broker
who will buy each share at £l,
knowing something of the
coming merger. That price
would be fair enough and would
allow the broker in turn to make
profit on the deal.
Uncle advises his nephew to
contact the broker as soon as
he has the shares and to sell them
at £1 each, making 13s. on each
share. Uncle asks for only a
small percentage of this, telling
his nephew to keep the remainder
for his trouble.
Uncle winds-up by warning
him that the information in the
“But if you didn't swipe the dough, how the dickens can
you afford an appeal?"
letter is of the utmost secrecy
and that all transactions must
be conducted without publicity.
The victim may have seen
letters somewhat similar before.
They can lead to a pot of gold.
The quiet tip from the high
place.
He hands the letter back to
the lucky nephew, who carefully
folds it and puts it away. He
would have noticed that the
date was a couple of weeks back.
He might ask: “Anything
happened yet?”
The con.-man has a quiet look
around him and leans over. He
tells him he has interviewed the
first of the shareholders men-
tioned in Uncle’s letter. In fact,
he has bought the shareholder’s
complete holding of 14,000 at
ss. 6d. a share. A little later he
takes the victim up to his hotel
room —this is after a pause at
the desk, where the clerk goes to
the safe and brings back the con.-
man’s briefcase.
In the privacy of his room the
con.-man opens the case and
shows the victim the shares. The
victim knows his shares, and,
looking this lot over, finds they
are all in order. Being an astute
businessman, he finds himself
having a wicked thought on how
he might relieve his friend of
some or all of them profitably.
He does not wonder for long,
for he finds his friend, purely
for friendship’s sake, offering
him a chance to obtain similar
shares. His friend tells him
about the second man listed as a
shareholder in Uncle’s letter.
He has traced him to the
Australia, or Menzies’, or some
place like that. The con.-man
tells his victim he will allow
him to take on a parcel of these
shares if he will agree to split
the proceeds with him.
The victim agrees to this
happily, and is in no way upset
when his friend requires one little
formality. This just makes their
private agreement businesslike.
They go along to the con.-
man’s office, where his attractive
secretary types up a formal
agreement that the businessman
victim will give his friend the
con.-man a certain percentage of
all profits he makes on the
transaction.
That would be the proper and
normal thing in the circum-
stances. It is just one of the
little details that a good con.-man
cannot afford to overlook.
The con.-man telephones the
shareholder at the hotel, makes
an immediate appointment, and
down they go.
The victim is goggle-eyed when
he finds the shareholder has
60,000 shares. The shareholder
and the con.-man start to argue
on the price, and finally split the
difference at 6s. a share.
The shareholder is, of course,
the con.-man’s confederate.
He produces a bundle of
shares, which the victim inspects
and finds perfectly in order. The
shareholder states that he wants
cash for them. He is going
abroad in two days’ time. He
does not want bank formalities
to hold him up. The con.-man
agrees to pay him cash the
following day, and on that happy
note the interview is over.
On the way down in the lift
he tells the victim he does not
have the cash, but that good old
Uncle will pay for sure. They
go back to his office.
The con.-man writes-out a
cable asking Uncle to send the
cash immediately. He also writes
a cable to the Paris broker telling
him he is buying the shares and
asking his attendance in London
to take them over.
He leaves the victim in his
office for a bit while he goes out
to dispatch the cables.
The victim chats to the
secretary. When she tells him
her opinion of her boss she
confirms his own. And he asks
can he take her out to dinner.
Next day the victim is shown
the answer to the cable that went
to Uncle. It is from Uncle’s
wife, Aunty. Uncle, she says,
regardless of the cable-costs, is
away hunting moose with some
associates. She won’t be able to
get in touch with him for several
days. But she is sending 20,000
dollars as a start, and hopes her
nephew is well.
At this psychological moment
the con.-man’s secretary brings
in a cable replying to the one
dispatched to Paris.
The Paris broker’s cable
sounds like a broker’s cable, just
as Aunty’s sounded like an
aunt’s. The broker’s says:
“Willing to purchase 60,000 at
£1 a share. Sending representa-
tive to your office 2 p.m.
Thursday.”
The con .-man and the victim
then discuss how they can raise
the wind sufficiently to buy the
shares. The victim is likely to
state that he will pay for most
of them himself.
He goes out and sees his
banker, and comes back later in
the day with a roll. This he gives
to the con.-man, who also
displays a roll. But the con.’s
is plain paper with a few genuine
notes around the outside.
The con.-man’s shareholder-
confederate duly arrives with the
bundle of shares, and receives
in payment the real and false
rolls. He conveniently does not
undo the rolls to count them.
Before he hands over the
shares he makes out the
transfers, the bulk to the victim,
the lesser number to the con.-
man, in accord with what they
paid.
Everything appears correct,
and the shareholder who is no
longer a shareholder hurries- off
to catch his boat for Bermuda.
The con.-man and the victim
wait in the office. At 2 p.m.,
right on the dot, the repre-
sentative of the Paris broker
arrives. He is the con.-man’s
other confederate, and he is very
impressive.
He comes in with a satchel
and opens it without delay. In
it are what appear to be thick
bundles of notes. He is brisk
and to the point. He obviously
wants to get the business done.
He gives the impression he has
been instructed to pay cash.
He is handed the shares and
examines them. He states they
are quite in order. But then
he turns them over and finds the
transfers have been made out
in the victim’s and the con.-man’s
names.
The representative is surprised.
The shares, he says, are useless
to him.
The only way he can see out
of the difficulty is to send the
shares to the company’s head-
office and have them made out
afresh in the broker’s name. A
large envelope is obtained and
the shares are placed in it.
The victim writes a letter to
the company asking that the
transfers be made out in the
broker’s name. He addresses
the envelope and goes with the
con.-man to the post-office,
where he registers it and sends it
off air-mail.
On the steps of the post-office
the con.-man bids him a cheerful
good-day and see you tomorrow,
and goes off.
The victim at that stage has
in his possession a G.P.O.
registration-slip and a note from
the broker’s representative
promising to buy the shares when
they come back from the U.S.A.
And that is exactly all he ever
gets in his pocket for the
thousands he had invested.


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to —
NAME . .
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Kmpire «... £-2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
barrere
No Pads —
No Springs
The neo - baf.rere
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATtRE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3x), 243 Elizabeth St., S\dnej
.Vl'/
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
First leg of the big Melbourne
racing double —the Caulfield Cup
of £lO,OOO, plus a gold cup
valued at £350 wilt be the
main V.A.T.C. attraction this
coming Saturday. Most Aus-
tralian States will be represented,
while New Zealand has a strong
contingent in class.
For the Caulfield Cup:
Caranna, 1 ; Redcraze, 2 ; Ray
Ribbon, 3.
The Coongy Handicap (1£
mile) and the Caulfield Stakes
(w.f.a. ; nine furlongs) will be
run at Caulfield this afternoon
(Wednesday). They are expected
to throw additional light upon
Caulfield Cup prospects. The
winner of the Coongy does not
incur a Cup penalty.
From 1930, when Amounis
won the Caulfield Stakes in slow
time, five winners of the w.f.a.
race also landed the Cup:
Amounis, Tranquil Star,
Columnist, Peshawar and Rising
Fast. Minor placegetters in the
Stakes in recent seasons who
have won the Cup have included
Rising Fast (second to Prince
Cortauld last season), St. Fairy
and Counsel (it was, of course,
Rising Fast’s second Caulfield
Cup). _
Though, over the years, a few
roughies have landed the Caul-
field Cup—among them St.
Warden (100 to 1), North wind
(66 to 1) and Royal Gem
(33 to I)—backers as a rule
haven’t been far astray in assess-
ing prospects. Winning favorites
in late years have been Rising
Fast, Peshawar, Basha Felika,
Grey Boots, Columnist and St.
Fairy.
Though the Caulfield Cup has
been won by top-class performers
since Palfresco ran his Australian
record time of 2min. 27fsec. for
the mile-and-a-half in 1935, no
subsequent winner has run better
than 2.28 i (Columnist, in 1947).
Blue Ocean, at Randwick in
February, 1954, equalled Pal-
fresco’s time for the distance.
A. Breasley, now well estab-
lished as a successful jockey in
England, won the Caulfield Cup
no fewer than five times, his
winners being Tranquil Star,
Skipton, Counsel, St. Fairy and
Peshawar. Frank Dempsey
rode three winners (Lavendo,
Bronzetti and Eurythmic).
Sydney jockey N. Sellwood
won the first two races on the
opening day of the Caulfield
Cup meeting, on Sydney-trained
two-year-olds Concert Star and
Grey Prince. The former had
easily won the Gimcrack Stakes,
and had just as easy a win in
Caulfield’s Debutante Stakes for
fillies. Grey Prince just managed
to hold Flying Kurana off in
the First Debutant Stakes for
colts and geldings, but as it was
Grey Prince’s first appearance
in public the effort was full of
merit, and he seems bound to
be improved by the experience.
Bred at Newhaven Park stud,
Boorowa (N.S.W.), Grey Prince
is by the French sire Damtar,
whose progeny are in their first
season. The grey was his
initial winner. Favour, dam of
Grey Prince, is by Nizami
(imp.) from Miss Ridicule by
The Ace (imp.).
Hot Spell ran a poor race in
the A.J.C. Derby, being in the
rearguard to the home-turn and
finishing in the middle of the
field, but in the Caulfield
Guineas he was too brilliant for
Sydney three-year-olds Harn-
ham Hill and Monte Carlo.
Harnham Hill has had an
unlucky run. Monte Carlo was
last away in the Guineas.
True North proved best of
the three-year-old fillies in Caul-
field’s Maroona Handicap, in
which Nydello, from Sydney,
was expected to land the money ;
after being with the lead,
Nydello faded to fourth place.
True North is by Meadow Mist
(imp.) from Auriga, a mare by
John James (imp.) from
Astralect by Great Star (imp.).
Prince Darius, form horse of
the Randwick Youthful Stakes
field last Saturday, had an easy
win, as did Giuditta in the
Juvenile Stakes. Prince Darius
was bred by bookmaker J.
Mandel, and is by Persian Book
(imp.) from Lyrical Lass by St.
Andrew. Giuditta —a replica of
her dam, Wattle —is a Tauber
(imp.) filly. Wattle won a dozen
races, including the A.J.C.
Champagne Stakes. The Taubers
are in their first racing season.
Hardly worth the proverbial
two-bob when he raced in Vic-
toria, Mandingos has now won
six races on end, and the latest
of them, City Tattersall’s Buxton
Stakes at Randwick, was one of
the easiest —he wasn’t under
pressure at any stage, and
simply cantered in ; and maybe
the chestnut hasn’t yet come to
the end of his winning sequence.
He wasn’t entered for the
Epsom, but he could well be a
Doncaster hope next year, or
maybe he will be set for the
V.R.C. Newmarket.
Another with a notable string
of recent wins, Advocate has
now landed the money in six of
his last eight starts, and he was
placed at the other two outings.
He brought his stake-earnings
to more than £30,000 when he
carried topweight (9.13) and won
City Tattersall’s Gold Cup at
Randwick. Intentions at time
of writing are to take him to
Melbourne to race next month
at w.f.a. and in the Pentathlon
Handicap (1| mile) at Fleming-
ton: the Pentathlon is worth
£6OOO, and there’s provision for
a maximum topweight of 9.7. It
will be staged 11 days after the
Melbourne Cup, and will be one
of the features of the Olympic
race-carnival.
• • • •
New Zealander M. J. Mood-
abe, who has raced an extensive
string in recent years, most of the
Sydney members being in
M. McCarten’s stables, won a
fortune with Prince Cortauld
(£51,215 in stakes from 25 wins
and 17 minor platings). He is
hoping for another Prince
Cortauld in his smart two-year-
old Lord Cortauld, impressive
winner of a midweek Canterbury
Park Maiden for colts and geld-
ings. .The colt is by Khorassan
(imp.) from Lady Bertha by Lo
Zingaro (imp.) from Podokes
(imp.) by Rock Flint. He was
foaled at Trelawney stud,
Cambridge (N.Z.).
“Aqua”: Two of the two-year-
olds running in Victorian spring
meetings have the novelty of
carrying trade-names —one the
same name as a brand of whisky,
the other the name of a brand
of buttons.
“Pillo”: Only three women
owners have bagged the Mel-
bourne Cup since it was first run
in 1861. Perhaps 1956 will be
another woman’s year. The
bookies seem to think so, with
Redcraze equal-favorite. Owner
is New Zealander Mrs. Ada
Bradley.
* * *
If ever a sport gave itself a
Voluntary shot in the arm,
trotting did at the Harold Park
Raceway on Saturday night.
Feature events on the second
night of the Spring Carnival
—Trotters’ Cup and Pacers’
Free-for-All —were won by Para
Rip and Mineral Spring, two of
the best exponents of their gaits
seen for a long time. And to
win out on the night they had to
prove this.
In the 151-furlongs Trotters’
Cup, Victorian mare Valley Echo
set a cheeky pace ; J. T. Brown,
on stiff-leg actioned Enzedder
Blue Admiral, left her clear for a
couple of circuits, then eased the
reins, after a tussle moved clear,
looking to have the Cup shelved ,
but from twelve lengths or so
back the giant-striding, bandaged
legs of Para Rip began to carve
through a mass of struggling
horses, appearing for a split-
second to have a chance of doing
it, then, in the manner of a
champion, to have it done. It
was something to make people
stand and cheer —as they did, for
the whole last lap; sensing that
they were seeing a Phar Lap ol
trotting. He ran the distance in
4.12|, which chopped three
seconds off Sandan’s Australasian
record.
In the Free-for-All, Mineral
Spring was following the pace of
leader Marine Dealer, who on
the preceding Wednesday night
had recorded 2.5 f for a Flying
Mile win against similar com-
pany. The duel looked to be
between the two when Mineral
Spring’s rival of Derby days,
Van Hall, shot around the field,
past Mineral Spring, then Marine
Dealer, to take the lead and set
a faster pace. At the Leger in
the last lap Van Hall still led,
had burnt-off Marine Dealer —
and perhaps Mineral Spring,
too; but, though swishing his
tail, the big-muscled brown
moved out after him, and, fairly
revelling in the tussle, rollicked
to the post a threequarter-length
winner, from Van Hall and
Defiance; smart time, 3.7 - for
the Ilf furlongs. In this week’s
Cup, Mineral Spring meets both
Van Hall and Defiance 12yds.
worse, which will at least leave
some interest in the race.
+ 4*
By winning the double-sculls,
with Murray Riley, in the
Olympic rowing-trials on Lake
Wendouree (Vic.), Merv Wood
becomes the first Australian to
be selected for four Olympic
Games. At Berlin in 1936 he
was in the eight, and in ’4B and
’52 repped in the single-sculls,
winning at London and coming
second at Helsinki.
* * *
“K.R.”: The Australian
wrestling-team for the Games
has been picked. If I may
remark on a couple who just
missed —firstly, N.S.W. Con-
stable Jim Armstrong, of the
heavyweight division, a bronze-
medal winner at the 1948
Olympics and a Test Rugby
League forward (by knocking-
back the filthy dispensed to his
League associates he didn’t
infringe his amateur status) ;
Armstrong had been very ill
and then seemed unlikely ever to
wrestle again. The other omis-
sion is 46-year-old Victorian
lightweight Dick Garrard, who,
as well as being at a couple of
Empire Games, was lining-up
for his fourth Olympiad when a
dislocated shoulder incurred in
a trial bout forced him to give
it right away.
* * *
“Cunedda”: One of Sydney’s
youngest high-schools, Manly,
won the 1956 Combined High
Schools Rugby Union premier-
ship. Another new high-school,
Enmore, won the 1956 Combined
N.S.W. High Schools’ athletics
championship —it had only
taken part in the competition
for the past two years. Further-
more, it was the first time in the
44 years the carnival has been
held that any school other than
Sydney High or North Sydney
High has won the championship.
Sydney G.P.S. athletic meet,
held on a lovely day, was a big
success in many ways. Various
records went, including the two
oldest on the books, Jimmy
Carlton’s 1927 times in the
100yds. and 220yds.—both to
St. Joseph’s present-day “Jimmy
Carlton,” Jim McCann. Mc-
Cann, one of Australia’s most
promising junior athletes ever,
also beat, by a fraction short of
a foot, Wall’s 1935 broad-jump
distance of 22ft. lOin. (But
Wall’s 1935 high-jump record of
6ft. 2in. still stands.) Peter
Hatcher, of Joey’s, as he did
last year, again won the 880yds.
and mile. Again as last year
Joey’s won the senior champion-
ship.
* # *
After not being particularly
sighted in the early stages, 26-
year-old Queenslander Doug
Williams won the N.S.W.
Queen’s Prize at the Anzac
range. He had tied with Percy
Pavey at the end of the final
stage, having gone to the mound
needing a possible to win and
49 to tie. He won the five-shot
shoot-off.
* * *
Queenslander Roy Emerson
won the metropolitan (Sydney)
singles tennis-title from Don
Candy, 6-3, 6-1. It was Candy’s
fourth time as runner-up. Emer-
son and Anderson won the
doubles, from Candy and Bob
Howe (recently ordered home
and forbidden to play any more
for “expenses” overseas).
* * *
“Atala”: Ten well-known
Adelaide League footballers
played in the first round of
Adelaide’s district-cricket. Two
or three others, like Port’s
Trowse and ’keeper Salvemini,
were due to begin cricket in a
later series. Another S.A. foot-
baller-cricketer, Alf Bailey, State
fast-medium bowler, Glenelg
centre-half-forward, known on
the football-field as “Screamer,”
is now playing with Valleys in
Brisbane.
“C.A.A.”: One point was
ignored in all the criticism,
justified and otherwise, of lan
Johnson as Test-captain. It is
held to be axiomatic that a bats-
man-only, an allrounder who is
primarily a batsman (Armstrong
comes to mind), or a ’keeper
who is himself a front-line bats-
man (H. B. Cameron, S’African
skipper here in 1931-32, is an
instance) is the only completely
satisfactory choice as a captain.
But in this year’s Australian
touring team the three most
experienced members, and the
only possible captains (Johnson,
Lindwall and Miller), are all
front-line bowlers. That no
batsman-only was available as
captain underlines a present
weakness in Australian cricket.
“Pillo”: Cricketers Tom and
Bill are sharing their club’s
bowling averages with one
match to go, each having taken
28 wickets for 68 runs. In the
last game Tom takes 1-19 while
Bill has 4-28. You’d expect Bill
to have the better average —but
just work it out.


Life on the Ocean Wave
GALLEY SLAVE
By LES SUCH
RECENTLY I met the
captain of a Norwegian
cargo-boat and, yarning
with him, was astounded
to hear about the equipment and
amenities of a modern freighter,
Radar and gyro-compass, for
instance. That means full-speed
ahead through fog and ice,
instead of half- or quarter-speed ;
and it means not even a man at
the wheel. In fact, the skipper
said there was no wheel on the
bridge. Instead ofi a helmsman,
" Red-hot —go for. your life!"
an officer and an apprentice,
there’s nowadays just an officer.
I don’t know what the galley-
facilities were like, but I can
guess. Steam boilers, oil-burning
stove, spud-peeling machine,
electrical gadgets and appliances.
Hot and cold water laid on. And
probably a host of other Hotel
de Luxe innovations.
It set me thinking of a tramp-
steamer I sampled some 30 years
back.
We joined her in Dunkirk: a
Maltese chief-steward, two first-
trippers for stewarding the
officers and engineers, the cook,
and myself. I was cook’s mate.
All I knew about cooking was
peeling spuds. But the cook
wasn’t aware of that. Neither
did he know that I was only 17,
with another ypar in -my
discharge-book so as to get a
man’s pay.
The ship belonged to the
hungriest line in the U.K.;
nobody ever sailed in its ships
unless he was drunk or destitute.
I was broke, and had been too
long ashore, and the folks at
home were beginning to look at
me.
We reached Dunkirk from
Calais at nightfall, couldn’t find
the ship in the maze of docks,
and nobody* had heard of her,
at least, so we concluded,
because nobody seemed to speak
English.
Eventually we found out from
an Australian in an
estaminet called the Star. He
had married into the pub after
discharge from the Army ; was
about five-foot-two and not very
thick. She was big, pleasant and
buxom, and seemed to do all
the work, while he lay back
with a cigar entertaining the
customers. He was still in
uniform, although the war had
been over more than two years ;
and he had no intention of
returning to Australia.
We boarded the ship about
midnight, after wending our way
through the docks with a bunch
of other British seamen. Safety
in numbers. They told us at the
Sailors’ Home that they averaged
a murder a week in the dock
neighborhood.
Sailing-day we were held-up
for (lours over an argument by
the firemen about conditions. We
also found that we had an extra
crew to take back to the U.S.A.
On the previous trip to the U.S.
the crew had deserted there to
a man, with the result that the
ship had been brought back with
a Yankee crew. Npw they had
to be delivered back as pas-
sengers to their home-port,
And they didn’t get on at all
with our “shanghai” crew. There
were fights from the start. I
found one of the Yanks in the
galley one morning asleep on the
bench, and when I shook him
he howled. He was a mass of
bruises and broken ribs from a
kicking.
At last we headed down the
Channel and were soon nosing
into the North Atlantic bound
for Hampton Roads, but which
port we knew not. It was early
in the year, and in a couple of
days we struck the inevitable
Western Ocean “snorter” and
our ship began to pitch and roll.
With no cargo she was like a
cork and would have rolled in
dock.
And for ballast? Shell-cases,
from the battlefields, in the
holds and four heaps of sand in
the well-decks, port and star-
board, fore and aft. Of course,
that didn’t last long. A couple
of big green seas and the sand
was gone, leaving us lighter than
ever.
Our cookhouse address was a
deck-galley with two doors, port
and starboard. There were two
ranges jammed into it. That made
four fires to stoke, for a start.
There were 40 of a crew to cook
for ; every drop of water had to
be pumped, and the pump was
on the weather-side of the
galley all the way across.
There was no steam-heat, so
every drop of hot water had to
be heated on the stove. There
was no refrigeration, only an
ice-chamfber full of blocks of ice
and carcasses mixed-up. This
particular apparatus carried the
worst job at the end of each day
Leaping from the scuppers.
(especially when the storm came
on) —slipping and sliding on the
ice, heaving out the meat for
the next day.
I started work at 4.30 a.m. and
went like hell till 11 at night,
never ceasing all day except
Sundays, when I was allowed
to sleep-in till 5.30.
The second .Sunday out I
learned how tough the cook was.
His name was Sam, and he was
an old fellow of about 30 (to
me then anyone over 21 was on
the downgrade). He was 6ft. of
steel wire and as thin as a
kangaroo-dog.
This Sunday the watchman
woke me at 4.30 instead of 5.30.
I think he didn’t know what day
it was, but when Sam came into
the galley also an hour early he
thought differently.
“What sort of a joke does he
reckon this is? Who is he?”
I told him Lindstrom, and he
said, “Wait till he comes off
lookout. I’ll have my joke!”
I thought, Yes, like fun you
will! Lindstrom was a species
of giant.
At eight-bells he came down
from lookout and attempted to
enter the galley as usual for a
warm before breakfast. He’d got
one foot over the weather-board
when Sam hit him. I heard the
smack and turned in time to see
Sam’s next punch bring him into
the galley.
The big bloke didn’t have
much chance for a while, being
half-frozen and hampered by
heavy clothing, oilskins and sea-
boots, and Sam was punching
like a steam-engine, picking
them up from the boot-tops and
swinging wide like a windmill.
So all the sailor could do was
go into a clinch until he got his
wind back. Then they started
to wrestle, first one, then the
other, backing onto the red-hot
stove, each time reefing up to
the deckhead!
Then up against the bench,
upsetting a chopping-block and
knives and cleavers and falling
to the deck and rolling in them'
At last the sailor got up. Sam
had shot his bolt. He was
Winded.
Out on deck went the sailor,
knowing that he was in the
wrong in the galley. And off
came the oilskins and seaboots.
“Now,” he panted, “come out
here!” I remember his next
peculiar expression: “If it’s fight
you want, that’s just my glory! ”
Sam got to his feet, shook
himself and started cutting-up
meat.
“That’s all right,” he said,
“we’re square. You’ve had your
joke, I’ve had mine.” And he
wouldn’t go out.
The sailor swore he’d kill him
when he got him ashore, but he
didn’t. Before we reached
Philadelphia Sam had become
buddies with him, winning him
over with titbits of food on the
sly. And that was important on
that boat, for, while the officers
and engineers were luxuriously
fed, the crew was starved.
The deck-crew came up in a
bunch one day, the leader carry-
ing a kid full of gristly meat and
rotten potatoes. They looked
dangerous. But Sam armed him-
self with a spud-masher and told
them to go to hell —he only
worked here. So they went on
the trail of the Maltese steward.
He saw them first, and locked
himself in his cabin with a loaded
pistol.
Next they headed for the
bridge, but were met at the top
of the ladder by the Old Man,
and a forty-five. He listened to
their complaints and promised
them better food, which they got,
but only for a couple of days.
Then it was worse than ever.
It took us three weeks to
reach Philadelphia. When the
steering-gear wasn’t broken-
down the engines were. And
there was a fire in the bunkers all
the way across, sometimes
breakjng out into an open
blaze.
I was as busy as a hive of
bees, washing pots and pans,
peeling spuds, punching dough
for bread —a hundredweight of it
in a big “doggie”—stoking the
four fires, humping spuds and
“If it’s fight you want...”
coal up from below, and end-
lessly pumping water.
Before we ran into the big
storm Sam trotted out another
side of his character. He was a
practical joker. And his victim
was always the officers’ steward,
a softish young fellow who’d
never been to sea before, and
who, I guarantee, never went
again. I watched Sam one day
handling a large coil-spring with
a thoughtful expression on his
face. He was wondering what
to do with it. At last a bright
thought struck him.
He proceeded to make fast one
end of the spring to the pot-rack
over the stove near the door.
On the other end he fashioned
a hook.
When the steward came to take
the dinner away Sam pulled a
large dish of rice-pudding from
the oven, flopped it into his
hands saying, “Red-hot —go for
your life!” and, as the steward
departed in a hurry through the
door, hooked the end of the
spring onto his collar.
The steward thought it was
Sam pulling him, and just kept
going as hard as he could. From
inside the galley we could only
see the spring uncoiling until it
reached its limit. Then it coiled
Armed himself with the spud-
masher.
again, bringing the steward back
with it. He landed on his back
outside the galley with the pud-
ding all over him.
One morning at the start of
the storm, I emerged from the
room half-asleep and commenced
working my way along the life-
lines towards the galley. There
was about thirty or forty yards
of open deck to cross, and it
was pitch-dark.
As I neared the galley I saw
a number of ungainly shapes
leaping from the scuppers and
hurling themselves at the galley-
door, then back up against the
bulwarks. I thought they must
be apes escaped from below, or
that I was going mad. I
approached warily. Closer, I
saw what they were large
drums of oil that had come
adrift from their lashings and
were hurling themselves about
with the movement of the ship,
which by this time was more
than somewhat.
Of course, it was impossible
to hear them for the screaming
of the gale. They were on the
weather-side, and so was the
pump. And pumping water that
morning, jumping aside each
time an oil-drum leapt at you,
was something, especially as the
wind blew half the water out of
the bucket every time you filled
it.
As the storm grew worse the
ship began to kick —that is, in
between two heavy rolls she
would come back suddenly on
the previous roll with a jerk that
lifted us off our feet and slung
us both in one corner of the
galley, along with everything
movable about the place.
On one of these occasions I
grabbed at the bench in mid-air
and ran a large splinter down
a thumbnail as far as the first
joint. And this on top of a
butcher’s-knife cut on the same
hand that should have been
('Continued on page 34)


YOU CUT COSTS
AND SAVE ROOFING
OVERHEAD WITH
HARDIES
D/m
(jwvtwhf
CovuumM, FIBROLITE
f etco. tcaoc mabi
Look at it from every point of view from first costs to maintenance costs in
years to come a Hardie’s New Contour Corrugated “Fibrolite” Roof will
save you money in a multitude of ways.
You’ll save as much as 10% on old roof-fixing methods. “Fibrolite” New Contour
Corrugated Asbestos-Cement Sheets have a specially-designed corrugation which
permits a nominal side lap of 3 ins. the most economical side lap giving
complete weather protection.
You’ll save money in maintenance costs every year as well. A Hardie’s
Corrugated “Fibrolite” Roof actually improves with age. It is sea-air proof,
rustproof and, at the same time, virtually eliminates moisture condensation in
your ceiling.
Cooler in summer, Hardie’s New Contour Corrugated “Fibrolite” is the ideal
roofing material for the Australian climate. It’s the finishing touch to a smart
contemporary home.
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Cnr. York & Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King
Street.
. POST THIS COUPON j
To: JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me illustrated leaflet for "FIBROLITE” NEW
CONTOUR CORRUGATED ROOFING —FREE AND
POST FREE.
NAME
ADDRESS
CH43/76/B
STOCKED BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS
UNCABLED
ADDITION.S
"UNFORGETTABLE PEOPLE"
COMMENTING on what it
describes as “the failure of
the United Nations to solve the
problem of the refugees,”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” notes
that, “if Europe alone is con-
sidered, there are perhaps
69,000 living in miserable con-
ditions in about 200 camps in
Austria, Germany, Greece and
Italy”:
“The United Nations has a
four-year programme for the
promotion of a permanent
solution of this problem, and it
was hoped that these 200 camps
would be closed by the end of
1958. But last year the United
Nations Refugee Fund collected
only a little more than half of
the year’s target.”
London “Economist,” in the
course of a very human survey
of this problem, suggests that
“most of us are refugees from
refugees”:
/‘lt is not really true that they
are ‘forgotten people.’ They are,
rather, people about whom we
should like to forget. A vague
feeling of guilt makes us recoil,
in classical Freudian style, from
the thought of our homeless and
helpless fellows.
“Since 1945 hundreds of
millions of pounds have been
given, from public funds and
private pockets, to help refugees
build themselves new lives, or
at least to save them from death.
Yet there are more refugees in
the world today than there were
in 1945; and still they come.
“War in Palestine and Korea,
partition in India and Vietnam,
persecution in China and in the
Arab world have driven about
20-million people from their
homes in Asia. In Europe, the
10-million ‘displaced persons’
found in the ruins of Hitler’s
empire represented only part of
the post-war refugee problem.
“There, were, too, the Finns
whose homes had been annexed
by Russia, Greeks uprooted in
the civil war, Spanish republicans
who had crossed the Pyrenees
before 1939, survivors of East
European Jewry .whose one
thought was to flee from the
places where their communities
had been butchered —and on top
of all these, the 12-million
Germans expelled from East
Prussia, Silesia, the Sudetenland,
other parts of Eastern Europe.
Even if one sets aside those
D.P.s (the great majority) who
were returned to their own
countries soon after the end of
the war in Europe, there is left
a total of well over 30-million
refugees.
“And still they come.
“The plight of nearly all
refugees is miserable. They have
lost homes and belongings,
family and friends. But for some
among these millions there is an
additional loss: they have lost
their country. The German from
Silesia, the Hindu from Dacca,
the Korean or Vietnamese flee-
ing from the Communist north,
the Palestinian Arab in Syria or
Jordan, all have at least the
advantage of finding themselves
among their own fellows.
“The refugee from Eastern
Europe is that much worse off
than they. He is in a strange
land, his helplessness increased
by inability to understand the
language. He does not know the
ways of the people who surround
him, and, whether they ostracise
or discriminate against him or
not, he feels unwelcome and
alone. Above all, he has for-
feited the protection of his
Government; he has no pass-
port, no inherent legal rights, no
particular claim on the attention
of anybody.
“For these very reasons he
should command the special
attention of the international
community—not because he is a
victim of Communism (victims
of Fascism have fully as good a
claim), nor because he is a
European; but rather because
he has lost his country, and
must rely solely on the humane
instincts of humanity as a
whole.”
After outlining the good work
done by the late Dr. van Heuven
Goedhart, the first U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees—
“about 160,000 of their charges
were resettled overseas,” and
there is hope that “perhaps
another 100,000 will eventually
be admitted to overseas
countries” the “Economist”
goes on to comment that “it has
long been clear that for the
majority of the High Commis-
sioner’s remaining charges the
only chance of breaking out of
their present wretched existence
is to make themselves self-
supporting in the countries where
they have spent the post-war
years principally Germany,
Austria, Italy and Greece”;
“Many former D.P.s have
already succeeded in this. For
many of those who still live in
camps, slums, former barracks
or jails, the road to re-establish-
ment as self-respecting citizens
has been blocked by obstacles
insuperable to the unaided
individual, but by no means too
high for him if he can get a leg-
up. Experienced craftsmen have
lacked the essential tools of their
trade; promising youngsters
have had no opportunity to
acquire skills ; men and women
who could earn a fair living in
an industrial centre or on a farm
have had to stay in camps to tend
sick or aged relatives. In all too
many cases the gap between
misery and a new life has been
pitifully small. . . ,
“The High Commissioner s
Office has theretore made it its
first concern to help these
unfortunates to help themselves,
Some of the funds il has scra P ed
together have had to go to help
provide the essentials of exist-
ence J b ut wherever possible
small sums—usually loans—have
been provided to enable a
Amsterdam “Algemeen Handelsblad”
“YOUR NEW PILOTS, COLONEL!”
refugee to build a little house or
to buy tools, to obtain schooling
for a child, to finance a co-
operative business or a shop. The
results have shown that, even
after a decade of demoralising
stagnation, many thousands of
the refugees are still able and
willing to build themselves new
lives.
“Theirs, then, is a very special
problem. Although a certain
proportion of them are debarred
by sickness or age from any hope
of becoming self-supporting, the
majority ask only for a modest
amount of help to enable them to
make a fresh start.
“Two years ago the High
Commissioner prepared a pro-
gramme to provide precisely this
kind of aid ; he estimated that
it would cost only £4,300,000,
spread over four years. So far,
however, appeals to public and
private generosity throughout the
world have brought money in
at not much more than half the
necessary rate.
“If the response does not
improve and quickly the
record of the great effort made
in the first post-war years to save
the East European refugees will
be irreparably tarnished. If we
are not humane enough to heed
the appeal of these tragic figures
out of sheer charity, have we
not reason at least to make one
more effort to clear our own
consciences—an absurdly small
effort when seen against what has
already been done?”
"Soviet Duplicity"
Soviet Premier Bulganin’s
latest suggestions to Washington
on disarmament were officially
described by the U.S. Govern-
ment as containing “nothing
new,” a comment which London
“Economist” describes as “largely
justified”:
“The Soviet Government is
giving no ground on the key-
issue of international inspection,
and, apart from a hint that it
might prefer to negotiate dis-
armament bilaterally with the
United States rather than
through the United Nations, its
statement is mainly devoted to
repeating familiar propaganda
points.”
“But,” the “Economist” adds,
“two of these points, familiar
though they may be, call for
comment in the light of other
current events”:
“Marshal Bulganin lays
particular stress, first on the
claimed demobilisation, of over
1,800,000 Soviet soldiers, and,
secondly, on. the approach of
conscription in Western Ger-
many. By careful selection of
such facts, he manages to con-
trast a Communist world which
is stripping its armed strength
down to the bone with a Western
world still engaged in an all-out
arms-drive. These images
scarcely correspond to present
lealities.
General Gruenther, on his
farewell-tour of Europe, is
sounding vain warnings about
lhe inadequacy of many Nato
members’ short terms of military
service ; the council of Western
European Union has been learn-
ing of Herr von Brentano's
alarm at the prospect of sizeable
withdrawals of Allied troops
from Germany; and in Western
Germany itself the original
timetable and scale of rearma-
ment seem daily more and more
impracticable.
“These and other trends make
Marshal Bulganin’s denunciation
of the supposed ‘arms-race’ in
the West look rather like Don
Quixote’s assault on. the wind-
mill.
“It is also unfortunate for the
Soviet Premier that, on the day
he dispatched his claim that ‘the
Soviet Union’s unilateral reduc-
tion of its armed forces indis-
putably testifies to its love of
peace,’ the Hungarian Defence
Minister, General Bata, was
announcing that the manpower-
cuts which his country, like
Russia, had made in its forces,
involved no significant loss of
striking power.”
Commenting along similar
lines, New York “Herald
Tribune” quotes the warning by
Admiral Radford, chairman of
the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff,
that Soviet smiles are not to be
trusted, and that the words
“freedom, peace and truth” have
such different meanings in Soviet
and English dictionaries that the
Communists use them only to
play tricks on the unsuspecting:
“Soviet duplicity, Admiral
Radford’s principal target, is best
exemplified by the difference
between the Communists’ words
and deeds. While warning the
West against any military action
in Egypt, they invade Burma.
While demanding an end to all
nuclear tests, they refuse to
submit to controls which are
necessary to enforce such a ban
and continue their own explo-
sions. While piously professing
peace and claiming they want no
further outbreak of violence in
the Middle East, they sell arms
to Egypt. While publicly degrad-
ing Stalin because of injustices
Mystery and
misery of the
backache
What do doctors now know
about the cause, significance
and treatment of backaches?
October Reader’s Digest brings
you medical facts about your
back . . . and gives four rules
on how you can avoid getting
a backache.
Then there’s “Women’s secret
language”, Elsie McCormick s
hilarious primer on the female
double talk that so completely
baffles males; “The wisdom of
meditation”; "Help your child
to wonder”; “The nature of a
husband”; “Ever-spreading field
of the synthetics”.
Thirty-two stimulating articles
in October Reader’s Digest, only
2/-, at all newsagents and book*
stalls. Get your copy today.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO PATRICK JOSEPH O’KEEFE late
of ‘Cranbrook School” Victoria Road
Bellevue Hill New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that FLORENCE MAY O’KEEFE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3189
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 19th day of December 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
fron > MESSRS. ROBERTSON
PARKHILL ROFE & MOEFITT, Soli-
citors, 79-81 Pitt Street, Sydney, in the
said State.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ERNEST FRASER formerly
of 85 Francis Street Glebe.—T AK E
FRASFR h th m a PE o MADELINE
ERASER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2619 of 1956 on the ground of
desertion without just cause and excuse
* or three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
tfie Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
street Sydney by the 20th December 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from HUNT & HUNT, Soli-
Steel, Sydney.-,.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
TA WALES— In Divorce.
TO MATTHEW SYDNEY CASEY for-
°™ 4 r^L Pashley Street Balmain
ptfJL 7' OTI ij E , NORMA ALICE
,ASEY has filed a Petition for Divorci
No. 2836 of 1956 on the grounds of de
section without just cause and excuse foi
three (3) years and upwards and thai
during three (3) years and upwards yot
an habitual drunkard and have
habitually been guilty of cruelty towards
her If you wish to defend you may entei
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
; S , upr ®“m Court King Street Sydney bj
the 20th December 1956 and‘obtain a
Hrvr without charge from
BENT & HUNT, Solicitors, of 15
street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
i
*
BAN tncluJi"9
C.B.C.
SAVINGS BAH
The many services of this Bank now include a
modern Savings Bank at all branches and agencies
of the Bank in New South Wales, Victoria, Queens-
land, Western Australia and Australian Capital
Territory.
The complete banking needs of customers,
including all members of a family, may now be
transacted, conveniently and quickly, at one
office.
The deposits of C.B.C. Savings Bank
Ltd. are guaranteed by the parent
company.
The manager at Head Office, or yoor
nearest branch of this Bank, will explain, gladly t
the full service now available .
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
inflicted under his one-man rule,
they continue the same tyranny
under a so-called ‘collective
leadership.’ The list could go
on indefinitely.”
East and West
While approving of Sir John
Glubb’s urging that the West
should make closer contact with
the peoples of the Middle East,
“Manchester Guardian” is less
enthusiastic about his suggestion
that “we should adopt Com-
munist Jechniques of propaganda
for our own worthier ends”:
“Democracies are not good at
that sort of thing, and when they
try it their hearers soon see
through it: witness the Voice of
America. Something more
radical is needed.
“We used to have people who
knew—or thought they knew —
how to deal on good terms with
the clansmen of the desert
regions. Some of them may
still know how to talk to clans-
men who have grown rich on
oil and now drive about in
American cars.
“But if any of our representa-
tives know how to deal on equal
terms with the university
graduates, lawyers, Army-officers
of middle-class origins, and other
unquiet townsmen who now
make the running in the Middle
Eastern countries, there are few
signs of it.
“The words of Government
spokesmen and the jingoist press
have too often carried overtones
of fear and contempt—an ugly
mixture, likely to confirm Arabs
in the belief that, unless we want
oil or military pacts, we still
think of them as troublesome
inferiors.”
Cyprus and Nato
Commenting on West German
Chancellor Adenauer’s sugges-
tion —“the right way of solving
the Cyprus problem would be
through Nato, where interests are
mutual and uniform” —London
“News Chronicle” adds that
“even greater support comes
from the pattern of the Suez
crisis”:
“What happens in the Middle
East does not concern Britain
alone.
“Those who were against a
Nato base on Cyprus were
precisely those who wanted to
‘go it alone’ against Nasser.
Their case is now discredited.
“It is clearer than ever that
the base should be offered to
Nato—the one body by which
Greece, Turkey and Britain are
linked —while the Constitution of
the island, as a British colony,
should be drafted by Britain for
international agreement.”
Commenting on the same
point, London “Observer” notes
that British reluctance to bring
the Cyprus problem into Nato
stems from the assumption that
“Western interests in this part of
the world are not ‘mutual and
uniform.’ ”
One official view, the
“Observer” adds, has held that
Britain might have to take
military action in the Middle
East without the agreement of
its Nato allies, and “some Tory
extremists are now saying that,
if we had had a stronger force
in Cyprus ready to attack Egypt
within 48 hours of Nasser’s
seizure of the Canal Company,
all would have been well.
“The Suez crisis,” the
“Observer” concludes, “has
demonstrated the fallacy of this;
opinion and the soundness of
the Adenauer view. Quick
military action would have been
as illegitimate, and as
catastrophic to our interests, as
delayed action.
“The chief lesson of this crisis
is that military attack, unauthor-
ised by a two-thirds majority of
the United Nations, is an unprac-
tical method of attaining positive
ends—defence against a direct
attack is, of course, a different
matter.
“There is no good reason for
refusing to share our military
base and political responsibilities
in Cyprus with our allies: our
interests would be advanced if
did so.”
Atomic Ships
Suggesting that Britain’s pro-
gress towards nuclear-powered
ships is “less clearly defined”
than that of America, Russia,
Sweden and Norway, London
“Financial Times” comments
editorially that “British-built
nuclear-powered marine engines
must be available t<s meet the
demand for commercial nuclear-
powered ships which can be
expected to begin to develop in
the late 1960’5”:
“The potential importance of
the nuclear engine for ship-
propulsion lies in its low fuel-
consumption, which will enable
a ship to be operated for a full
working period of up to two
years, and perhaps more, with-
out the need for refuelling.
“While the capital costs of
nuclear-powered ships and the
cost for specially prepared
nuclear fuel for them will in the
first instance be high, the costs
will fall as increasing numbers
are built. The same is true of the
special facilities required for
their infrequent refuelling.
“There can, it would seem, be
little doubt that in 10 years’ time
the nuclear-powered marine
engine in which a nuclear-reactor
furnace is used to produce hot
steam, or hot gas to operate
either a conventional marine tur-
bine or a gas turbine, will be able
to offer substantial operating
economies to the ship-operator,
especially in the case of large
ships such as super-tankers.
“At the same time the cost of
the production of prototype
nuclear-powered ships such as
those which are being built in the
U.S. and Russia is great. Clearly,
however, Britain cannot afford
to be left behind in this field in
which so many other maritime
nations are already actively at
work.”
Independent Gold
Coast
British Colonial Secretary
Lennox-Boyd having promised
independence to the Gold Coast
(Africa), on the condition that
a majority voted that way at the
last elections, and that condition
having been fulfilled, the country
will, on March 6, 1957, become
the first African State to
achieve independence within the
Commonwealth.
To be renamed Ghana, it has
been under British rule for 85
years and there are some press-
misgivings about its readiness for
independence. London “Daily
Express,” for instance, holds that
“the omens are doubtful”:
“Two of Ghana’s Ministers
were named in the report of a
recent inquiry into bribery and
corruption. Another corruption-
inquiry involving a Minister is
in progress.
“The fear is that Britain,
foolishly yielding to anti-colonial
propaganda, may have thrust
political power into the hands
of people who are not yet ready
to use it.”
London “Financial Times”
also finds “an immediate cause
for misgiving” in the attitude of
the Parliamentary Opposition
there:
“Its chief party, the National
Liberation Movement, was
formed as a regional group in
an atmosphere of rioting and
bloodshed. Its recent boycotts of
debates in the Assembly show
that it is far from grasping the
proper function of a Parlia-
mentary Opposition, and there
are grounds for believing that
Opposition elements in the Gold
Coast will carry their quarrel
with the Government to extreme
lengths after independence has
been achieved.
“It may, with some justice, be
retorted that the Gold Coast
Government itself has failed to
show any marked degree of
political maturity.
“But it is now too late to
argue whether the Gold Coast
Government is capable of
governing. Once the decision to
grant independence had been
made, there was no alternative
to granting it in a manner
desired by a majority-elected
Government. All that can be
hoped is that standards of
political morality and efficiency
in the Gold Coast will improve
with experience of full self-
government.”
Taking a slightly more
optimistic view, London “Daily
Mail” comments that “the Goldare
Coast was moulded and guided
by Britain until it reached a
stage at which independence
became possible”:
“Far from thwarting this aim,
Britain has patiently sustained
and encouraged it.
“Ghana will join an impressive
list of continents, colonies and
nations which have been nursed
by Britain along the road to
independence. India, Pakistan,
Burma and Ceylon have been
allowed to go their own ways.
Malaya, Nigeria and Rhodesia
are also to be accorded full
freedom.
“What a contrast this affords
to the growth of Russian Im-
perialism, which in a few short
years has swalllowed up Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania, Poland,
Hungary, Czechoslovakia, East
Germany, Rumania, Bulgaria
and Albania.
“Yet according to Moscow
and Cairo it is we [Britain] who
the ‘ruthless Imperialists.’ ”


THE OTHERV FELLOW'S MIND
Ten Per Cent.
You can’t rush those boys at the
Taxation Department. My assessment
arrived by morning mail, my cheque was
posted same day, and seven days later I
requested an overseas clearance to enable
me to visit New Zealand.
After a lengthy wait I was told my
cheque had not yet gone the rounds of
the usual channels and could not be
traced, but a clearance would be issued
if I’d cough-up again. Handing over the
required amount, I asked if my cheque,
on being found, would be cancelled or a
refund made. No go. I was told to
remind the department of having paid
twice when my next assessment arrives.
If that’s as late in coming as the last
one I’m lending the Treasurer £8 3s. 3d.
interest-free for the best part of a year.
If it was the other way I’d pay 10 per
cent, on it.-— Tackline S. (N.S.W.).
Northern Tourists
Although doing excellent work in other
parts of the State (as attested by the large
number of southerners who make the
annual pilgrimage to winter sunshine) the
Queensland Tourist Bureau does not make
adequate arrangements for tourists in the
Far North.
Take Townsville as an example. This
is the metropolis of the North and may
soon become its capital. Yet the pleasure-
trips offered visitors are practically
negligible. Apart from a weekly trip to
the aboriginal-settlement at Palm Island
and the daily ferry-service to adjacent
Magnetic Island, there are only bus-tours
of the city and suburbs.
Why not a weekend-trip to Hinchin-
brook Island, with its picturesque channel,
or Orpheus Island, only some 60-70 miles
away? And surely something more
imaginative and comprehensive in the way
of an inland tour could be organised.
Canadian visitors reaching Townsville
from Cairns on their way south for the
Olympics were disappointed by the
inadequate facilities offering for seeing
both the hinterland and the Barrier Reef.
It is not too late yet for something to
be done to give overseas people a greater
appreciation of the scenic beauties which
James Fitzpatrick described as unique in
the world. — Plain Australian (Vic.).
Payroll-tax
The Tariff Board has advocated the
removal of the payroll-tax as one means
of reducing production-costs on export-
industries.
Theoretically, such a move should
reduce costs over all industries and
services, making possible lower prices to
consumers and, subsequently, lower
wages. But in practice it will not work
out like that. Time and again in post-war
years the industrial unions have nabbed
the gains for employees by means of
higher wages, shorter hours or more
holidays. Output per employee is still
too low, and that is one of the major
causes of our economic troubles.
The present Commonwealth Govern-
ment has lifted payroll-tax exemption
from a wage-bill of £ 1040 a year to one
of £6240. Few farmers are now obliged
to pay this tax, and only a small propor-
tion of our export-production is subject
to it.
The Menzies-Fadden Government is
urging more secondary industries to
export portion of their output. If there
is no Constitutional bar to such a move,
it could stimulate its export-drive by
rebating half the payroll-tax to any
industry exporting 10 per cent, of its
output and the whole of the tax if 25
per cent, is exported.
If the average wage paid by a factory
is £l6, dropping the payroll-tax would
save Bs. per week on the cost of each
employee, or £6240 per year on a staff of
300.—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Hire-purchase
The control of hire-purchase (B.
26/9/’56) isn’t a question of protecting
the purchaser against his folly—it’s a
matter of protecting the nation against
the moneylenders.
If my neighbor cares to throw his
money to the winds, that may be his
affair ; but when his profligacy makes it
possible for certain interests to corner the
money-market and saddle me with high
interest-charges, then I become interested
in the transaction.
And that’s what has happened. H.-p.
companies have become so powerful that
they can borrow money at high interest.
The amount of money for loans being
limited, it follows that money for public
works can only be raised in competition,
and obviously at high rates, too. So it’s
costing me and my countrymen more
than it should to carry electricity further
out, to build roads, to construct dams
and weirs and to do the hundred and one
other jobs that must be done if we’re
going to hold this continent. And all
because my neighbor is prepared to pay
high interest-rates for the privilege of
buying something he’s not prepared to
save for.
At the moment the W.A. Government
is trying to interest an American company
in a land-settlement scheme near
Esperance. The few millions that will be
required wouldn’t be a fleabite to a big
h.-p. company with its allied banks, but
apparently the rewards for developing the
country aren’t sufficiently attractive.
We’ve got to go cap in hand to a friendly
foreign Power hecause so much of the
country’s wealth is tied-up in easy
payments. — Squinter (W.A.).
Wool Prices
Excitement over higher prices at wool-
sales may be short-lived. The price-
rises will certainly contribute to an easing
of this country’s balance-of-payments
problems, but if the increase is only
temporary it will leave plenty of headaches
in its wake for Australia’s politicians and
economists.
The Suez situation has obviously con-
tributed to high prices at recent sales, but
one cannot expect the tension to last, and
the prospect of an imminent fall in wool-
“Had to go home sick on Tuesday
prices prompts questionings as to the value
of sudden and temporary booms.
High wool-prices stimulate research into
synthetic fibres and lead more people to
use existing synthetics. Since 1950, world-
consumption of wool per head has been
dropping. This has been largely due to
the influence of synthetics, and only
steadily-rising world-population and inter-
national tensions have maintained a high
demand for wool.
The most serious result of high wool-
prices is the fillip they give to internal
inflation. The peak prices recorded in
“Lei’s sleep-in this morning and let the factory run itself."
1951 are an example. Unusually large
payments for the woolclip greatly
increased Australia’s real income, but
internal production did not increase
proportionately. So we had inflation
more money than goods. The boost given
to importing by the same abnormal
prices has also resulted in a severely
adverse balance-of-payments, with con-
sequent import-restrictions.
And even the Government that imposed
them agrees that these restrictions attack
the symptom and not the cause of our
economic difficulties. —R. B. C. (Vic.).
Criticism
Criticism of the arts is something I
have never been able to understand. A
writer produces a new book. It is
reviewed unfavorably by the critics, so
the author sighs and writes off a few
pounds from the royalties. An artist puts
on a one-man show. The press-notices
are poor, so prospective buyers stay
away. The local theatre puts on a new-
release film and the critics do not like
it, so the houses are poor and the owner
loses money.
By what right can critics affect the
livelihood of others? A man whose
living comes from his painting is no
different from the man who makes suits.
There is a law to stop papers running
articles on the poor-quality goods from
“So-and-so’s” store or the shoddy work-
manship in “What’sisname’s” furniture.
From the point of view of public interest
there would be more sense in warning
against poor-quality workmanship in
essential articles than poor-quality enter-
tainment.
It would be refreshing to read reviews
of, say, the various dentists in the town.
From them we could move on to the
grocers and then the butchers, so that
by the time the series had finished we
would not be making mistakes in our
shopping. — Rann (N.S.W.).
Savings-bank Deposits
Advocates of bank-nationalisation
should note the latest accounts released
by the State Savings Bank of Victoria.
Coupled with the slower growth of the
State bank —where the increase in total
deposits for the year fell far short of the
amount of interest credited to depositors’
accounts—is the spectacular growth in the
recently-opened savings-banks conducted
by some of the trading-banks.
It all adds up to the old story that
energetic private enterprise will, every
time, leave Government and semi-
Government concerns standing cold.
These figures speak for themselves.
Increase for the year to June 30, 1956, in
total deposits with the State Savings Bank
of Victoria was approximately £4-million
(smallest annual increase since 1940), and
compares with an increase of £ 144-mil lion
for the previous year. Since more than
£5-million was credited to depositors’
accounts for interest, it means that the
total increase for the year was nearly
£900,000 less than the amount of interest
credited.
What steps the State bank will take to
remedy this remains to be seen. Certainly
a few more branches have been opened,
but much more is called for, and it
seems that the bank’s managers will have
to adopt a more vigorous approach
towards getting business.
The trading-banks get out after busi-
ness, and, as their figures prove, it is
there to be picked up. One of these banks
has even installed a mobile bank to help
rake in the money. In face of this sort
of thing the old semi-Government attitude
of letting the business come to the bank
will have to be abandoned, and com-
petition met with competition.
In a very long association with bank-
ing I cannot ever remember managers
of Government savings-banks “chasing
accounts in the same way as the private
banks do. That, obviously, will not meet
the case now that other banks are in the
field.— Geg (Vic.).
Late Closing . ,
From results so far, I don’t think that
thoughtful citizens would support 10-
o’clock closing in N. S'. Wales if they had
another vote. .
Advocates for later closing argued that
the six-o’clock swill would disappear,
but at the suburban hotel which 1
patronise it is as bad as it was before
10-o’clock closing.
In the later hours I have seen youngsters
left in strollers near the hotel-door while
their parents drink in the lounge.
Consumption of beer has increased and
convictions for driving under the
influence show an upward trend. All ot
these things, we were told, would decrease
with later closing. Drinking among young
people is also increasing.
Who wants later closing, anyway? Not
the hotelkeeper, not the police, not hotel-
employees, and not the decent middle-
class citizen who has sons and daughters.
We should have another referendum
on the subject. 1 feel sure that man>
voters would now reverse their previous
decision. —C. B. M. (N.S.W-)-
The Bulletin commented (5/9/’56)
that the increase in the quantity of beer
drunk in Australia is “not exactly a record
to boast ot” At the same time it com-
mended Canberra’s record in the matter
of drinking-habits and condemned the
Victorian decision to enforce its early
closing” during the Olympic Games..
I don’t know about other places, but
I do know that 10-o’clock closing has
not helped our district (a typical N.S.W
country town). It has given parents the
opportunity to drink together, and there
has been an increase in the numbers ot
small children left to roam the streets
after dark.
It is also remarkable how France was
held up as an example of a country with
civilised drinking-habits when the
campaign for later closing was cm. no
until the referendum was over did the
press start to feature the unpleasant truth
that alcoholism is a major problem in
France, and that treatment of it takes a
large proportion of the national expendi-
ture on public health.
The U.S.A. also seems to have a major
problem on its hands with excesses
drinking. Are we supposed to follow
such examples?.— Moderation (N.S.W/.


Rocla Pipes, Ltd.
CUBSTANTIAL reserves strengthen the
earning-power of this 29-year-old co.,
the scrip, listed on the Melbourne ’Change
in 1943, commanding a stiff premium.
Revaluation of freeholds led to a one-
for-six bonus issue in 1955, but a balance
of £43,674 remaining in the revaluation
account and £11,722 of share-premiums
sustain hopes of a further capital-gain.
Each of the 385,556 £1 shares has a
net tangible backing of 375., and buyers
at 545. obtain a return of £5 11s. per cent,
from a 15 p.c. div.
Primarily a manufacturer of pre-
stressed concrete-pipes for public utilities,
the co. also produces numerous rein-
forced-concrete products, as well as
chemicals for the treatment of concrete.
A dozen plants scattered through
South Australia, Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland cater for the Aus-
tralian market; New Zealand require-
ments are met from a plant at Welling-
ton. A number of Rocla pipe-making
techniques have gained world-wide recog-
nition, with the consequent export of
pipe-making plant to several overseas
manufacturers. Rocla Pipes (Africa), Pty.,
was formed during the year, the Aus-
tralian co. subscribing 50 p.c. of the
capital.
The increased cost of labor and
materials was only partly passed-on to
consumers, a higher turnover (in volume
and value), coupled with improved manu-
facturing efficiency, enabling the co. to
absorb a portion of the heavier costs and
still show a 14 p.c. increase in net earn-
ings for the year to June 30. To cover
the higher earnings an extra £31,000 was
set aside for taxation, estimated at
£83,000, while the depreciation charge
rose by £ll,OOO to £35,000, leaving a net
profit of £100,209, or £12,345 more than
in the previous term. The sale of certain
patents and fixed assets yielded another
£16,949, reserves showing a net gain of
£65,168 over the year:
To Re- Re-
June Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1952 .. 65,870 124 p.c. = 32,259 33,611 69,690
Share premiums, £873 . . .. 70,563
Profit sale patents, £26,685 .. .. 97,248
1953 .. 85,119 15 p.c. = 42,904 42,215 139,463
1954 .. 87,482 1 5 „ „ 44,836 42,646 182,109
Assets revalued, £97,658 . . .. 279,767
Reserve capitalised, £53,984 .. .. 225,783
1955 .. 87,864 15 p.c. = 47,797 40,067 265,850
Proceeds sale patents, £16,808 . . 282,658
Share premiums, £10,849 . . .. 293,507
Intangibles written-off, £5OOO . . 288,507
Profit sale assets, £136 .. .. .. 288,643
1956 .. 100,209 15 p.c. = 57,834 42,375 331,018
The 15 p.c. div. was repeated, but called
for an extra £10,037 to cover the capital,
enlarged in the previous term. Earnings
equalled a return of 25.9 p.c. from paid
capital, compared with 23.2, 29.2, 28.4
and 24.2 p.c. back to 1952.
Additions and alterations to plant and
the acquisition of land in S.A. and Vic-
toria and a leasehold in Queensland
added a net £71,388 to fixed assets,
valued, before depreciation, at either 1955
valuation or cost. Fully-paid shares were
issued at a premium in payment for the
land, £10,849 going to share-premium
reserve and £7670 to increase paid
capital:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £298,902 £377,886 £385,556
Reserves .. 182,109 265,850 331,018
Overdraft .. 71,630 83,827
Creditors, etc. .. 76,224 129,172 159,014
Tax provision .. 48,700 52,139 83,137
Final div. .. 26,154 25,380 28,917
£632,089 £922,057 £1,071,469
Land, buildings .. 50,442 148,636 187,091
Plant, etc. . . 186,842 ' 205,885 238,818
shares Rocla Africa - 16,808
Stocks, etc.* .. 184,704 268,420 286,762
Debtors, etc. . . 150.726 263,216 310,821
(ash, etc-. .. 54,375 30.900 31,169
Intangibles .. 5,000 5,000
£632,089 £922,057 £1,071,469
* Less advance on contract, £104,780 at 30/6/’56.
Debtors and stocks have increased with
the greater volume of sales, funds pro-
vided by undistributed profits being
supplemented by a £29,849 increase in
creditors and a further £12,197 from
the bank.
Prospects for the current term are
bright, the co. commencing the year with
orders and contracts at a record level.
Port Jackson & Manly Steamship
'T'HE threat of another round of “catch-
as - catch - can” wage-price spirals
doesn’t improve the outlook for either
the owners or users of Sydney’s public-
transport services. Already suffering
from the effects of high operating
expenses, both passengers and private
operators (who have to pay their way) are
finding public transport an increasingly
expensive business.
The Circular Quay-Manly ferry-service
is the main revenue-earner for the Port
Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.,
which, unable to cover rising expenses
ft ith a smaller gross income, showed a
loss of £12,680 for the year ended June
30 compared with an £18,105 profit in the
previous term, after charging a similar
amount (£23,765) for depreciation in
both terms.
The wettest summer in 60 years limited
the number of “trippers” on both the
scheduled services and the normally
profitable excursions to Broken Bay,
revenue dropping by £13,059 to £377,239.
The higher cost of labor, fuel and main-
tenance added an extra £17,119 to
operating expenses, while administrative
and general expenses increased by £630:
To Re- Re-
June Loss. , —Dividend N serves. serves.
30. £ £ £ £
1952 . . 4,874 Nil 159,949
Unexplained addition, £1920 .. 161,869
1953 .. 10,671 Nil 151,198
Profit sale assets, £556 .. .. 151,754
Profit.
1954 .. 29,609 5 p.c. =15,000 14,609 166,363
Profit sale assets, £6OlO .. .. 172,373
1955 .. 18,105 5 p.c. =15,000 3,105 175,478
Profit sale assets, £250 .. .. 175,728
Loss.
1956 .. 12,680 21 p.c. = 7,500 155,548
Halving last term’s dividend-rate, the
co. drew on reserves to make a 2\ p.c.
distribution to shareholders. Earnings in
the previous term equalled 6 p.c. on
capital following 9.8 p.c. in 1954.
Paid capital amounts to £300,000 in
10s. stock-units and fixed assets include a
fleet of small ferries, used in a Pittwater
service, the Newport Ice-works, and a
general store at Newport Beach as well
as the six ferries used on the Manly run.
The co. also operates the Sydney Ferries’
fleet as managing-agent for the N.S.W.
Government.
A fall in debtors (down £4779) and
the depreciation of fixed assets (deducted
from a “cost-or-valuation” figure) has
reduced the book-value of total assets by
£23,817:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Reserves . . . . 166,363 175,478 155,548
Overdraft .. . . 106,198 124,145 126,841
Creditors, etc. . . . . 43,369 35,073 35,990
Final div 15,000 15,000 7,500
£630,930 £649,696 £625,879
Ship property .. .. 499,554 510,442 491,664
Freeholds . . . . 96,861 93,116 92,112
Investments, etc. ■. . 3,862 3,852 3,862
Stocks and stores . . 15,709 23,220 23,954
Debtors 14,944 19,066 14,287
£630,930 £649,696 £625,879
During the term the installation of two-
way radio-telephones in all vessels and
Circular. Quay headquarters was com-
pleted, assisting considerably in the
control and operation of the ferries. In
spite of losses in three of the last five
years, disclosed reserves remain at a
substantial level, but are entirely repre-
sented by fixed assets, worth, in a going
concern, what they can be made to earn.
Fares on the Manly service were
increased last April, with further adjust-
ments in July, but the board has the
difficult task of stabilising operating
expenses in order to benefit from the
increased revenue.
At 4s. the 10s. units return 6.2 p.c.
from a 2\ p.c. div. Net tangible backing
is 15s. 2d.
Gerrard Company of A/asia, Ltd.
IN the five years since this co. was listed
on the Melbourne ’Change, its earn-
ings have more than trebled, allowing the
accumulation of reserves to proceed at
a brisk pace despite several lifts in the
div.-rate.
Incorporated in 1951 to acquire tha
capital of the then 32-year-old Gerrard
Wire Tying Machine Co. Pty., the co.’s
subsidiaries manufacture and distribute,
throughout Australia and New Zealand,
tensional strapping for packing-cases,
machinery, wire products and packing-
room supplies. Factories are established
at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Auckland (N.Z.).
The current 10 p.c. div.-rate was estab-
lished in 1955, when it was partly paid
from tax-free reserves, as were the pre-
ceding 8 p.c., 7 p.c. and 6 p.c. distribu-
tions. A one-for-three par-issue late in
1955 added £lOO,OOO to paid capital,
lifting the total to £520,000, of which
£120,000 is in £1 5 p.c. prefs.
The upward trend of earnings has con-
tinued, accounts to June 30 last disclosing
a net profit of £102,100 (up £10,210), after
providing £11,690 more for taxation
(£73,019) and allowing £29,936 (up
£463) for depreciation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends-— x To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. f Ord. • — x serves. serves.*
5 p.e. ’
£ £ £ £ £
Sale assets, £4699 .. .. .. 26,672
1953.. 60,505 6000 7 p.c. =21,000 33,505 60,177
Sale assets, £675 .. .. .. 60,852
1954.. 81,734 6000 8 p.c. =24,000 51,734 112,586
Revaluation assets, £18,245 .. .. 130,831
Exchange adjustment, £8400.. .. 139,231
Less increase in intangibles, £6OOO. . 133,231
1955.. 91,890 6000 10 p.e. =30,000 55,890 189,121
Exchange adjustment, £2400 . . 191,521
Share-issue expenses, £966 .. .. 190,555
1956..102,100 6000 10 p.c. =35,833 60,267 250,822
* After deducting intangibles, £183,110 at 80/6/’56.
The extra £5833 required for the final
div. on the larger capital was no problem,
earnings equalling 26.8 p.c. of average
capital following 28.6, 25.2 and 18.1 p.c.
back to 1953. The £60,267 added to
reserves represented 59 p.c. of the net
profit.
The increased turnover of the past few
years has called for additional premises
in Melbourne and extensions to the
Adelaide offices and factory, the balance-
sheet showing (after depreciation) an
increase of £117,469 in fixed assets (stated
at recent valuation, plus cost), while stocks
were considerably higher, rising by
£124,058 to £386,128:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Ord 300.000 300,000 400,000
Reserves . . .. 112,586 189,121 250,822
Mortgage .. .. 39,930 69,424 74,164
Overdraft .. 24,217 21,067 111,792
Creditors and tax-
provision .. 151,598 223,129 209,236
Final div. .. 15,000 18,000 20,000
£763,331 £940,741 £1,186,014
Freeholds.. .. £189,356 £203,979 £282,691
Plant . . . . 285,860 320,733 359,490
Unlisted shares .. 7,825 7,125 9,625
Stock .. .. 178,649 262,070 386,128
Debtors . . . . 101,553 146,045 147,999
Cash, bonds, etc... 68 789 81
£763,331 £940,741 £1,186,014
Supplementing funds provided by new
capital and undistributed earnings, the
bank advanced a further £90,725, and
the amount owing under ' mortgage
increased by £4740. At £193,180 working-
capital improved by £47,193.
The co. is planning to develop addi-
tional export-markets for a number of
its * products, and although import-
restrictions limit the rate of expansion,
greater production-capacity will be avail-
able in the current term as building
programmes reach completion.
Supported by net tangible assets of
£6 Bs. 6d., the £1 prefs. return 6.3 p.c. at
15s. 9d., the f.-p. 10s. ords. bringing
15s. to yield slightly under 7 p.c.
from a 10 p.c. distribution. Asset back-
ing for the ords. amounts to 16s. 3d.
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
IN the 50 years following its incorpora-
tion, H. McKenzie, Ltd., passed
through some particularly lean periods
before enjoying tfip relative prosperity of
post-war years. The decade to 1934 saw
capital written-off to the extent of 10s. 6d.
per £1 share, and an additional Is. 6d.
was returned to shareholders. Recovery
was slow, but by 1944 the div.-rate was
up to 9.4 p.c., reaching the present 10 p.c.-
level in 1950. A bonus issue in 1954
added £30,000 to paid capital, now stand-
ing at £150,000 in f.-p. Bs. shares.
The co. carries on business as timber-
merchants, joinery-manufacturers, kiln-
driers and wallboard distributors. In
recent years immunisation of timber has
been an important adjunct to normal
timber-processing. The three timber-
yards are located in Sydney.
After an extra £539 had been received
from divs. and commissions last term, net
profit was down £3337 at £32,625. Higher
expenses were the trouble, gross earnings
(£143,506) showing a decrease of only
£962. An unstated amount was set aside
for taxation, while £8407 (up £775) was
allowed for depreciation. To mark the
co.’s first 50 years, a 1| p.c. bonus was
added to the 10 p.c. div.:
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. , serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1953 .. 16,118 10 p.c. = 11,788 4,330 44,807
To staff fund, £4OOO .. .. • • 40,807
Profit sale assets, £1492 .. .. 45!, 299
1954 .. 31,321 10 p.c. = 11,788 19,533 61,882
To staff fund, £2OOO 59,832
Asset revaluation reserve, £34,425 .. 94,257
Reserve capitalised, £30,000 .. • • 64,257
Profit sale assets, £531 .. 64,788
1955 .. 35,962 10 p.c. = 13,394 22,568 87,356
1956 .. 32,625 llj „ „ 16,875 15,750 103,106
Dividends required £16,875 (just over
half) of the profit, reserves benefiting by
£15,750. Earnings equalled a return of
21.8 p.c. on capital (against last term’s
23.9 p.c.), and 12.9 p.c. on total share-
holders’ funds.
Over the year creditors (including tax-
provision) have been reduced by £20,413
to £101,204, and overdraft at £42,002 is
down £5514.
A slower tempo of trading is indicated
by the drop in debtors (down £3593 at
£80,771) and stocks (£5657 lower at
£204,159), while available funds have
been applied mainly to the reduction of
liabilities. Buildings (up £3547) and
investment (up £710) have also
been added to: —
1953. 1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital. . £117,879 £117,879 £150,000 £150,000
Reserves . . 40,807 59,832 87,356 103,106
Overdraft .. 9,434 47,516 42,002
Creditors* .. 92,179 95,022 101,204 80,791
Staff fund . . 4,000 6,000 6,000 6,000
Final div. .. 11,788 11,788 13,394 16,8/5
£266,653 £299,955 £405,470 £398,774
Freeholds .. 24,739 24,272 59,982 63,529
Plant, etc. . . 38,946 39,899 43,972 42,321
Stock .. 117,705 158,879 209,816 204,159
Debtors . . 55,057 67,513 84,364 80,771
Cash. etc. . . 30,206 9,392 7,336 7,994
£266,653 £299,955 £405,470 £398,774
* Includes tax-provision.
Satisfactory profits over the past five
years have enabled reserves to be built-up
from £24,745 to £103,106, and share-
holders’ funds (£253,106) now represent
63.5 p.c. of balance-sheet totals. The Bs.
shares have a net tangible-asset backing
of 13s. 6d., last sales being made at 9s.
to give a yield of 8.9 p.c. The shares
brought 11s. on the market 12 months
ago.
Prospects for the current year aren’t so
encouraging. Import-restrictions, reduced
homebuilding and increased wages and
expenses stand in the way of improved
profits, and the balance-sheet movements
indicate that the co. is preparing for a
harder year’s trading.
H. L. Brisbane & Wunderlich, Ltd.
A N increasing preference for tiled roofs
assists this well-established Westralian
co. to maintain its position as the State’s
largest supplier of roofing-materials.
Operating from six factories in and
around Perth, the co., closely associated
with the building-trade as shopfitter, glass-
merchant and manufacturer of tiles,
stoneware-pipes, etc., also produces
stainless-steel and sheet-metal products,
refractory materials and crockery.
The present name was adopted in 1938
when Wunderlich, Ltd., a substantial
shareholder, and H. L. Brisbane and Co.,
Ltd., amalgamated their joint interests in
W.A. Following shortly after a par issue
of 175,000 shares late in 1954, share-
holders received £84,049 in bonus scrip,
bringing paid capital to £678,037, of
which £88,733 is in 5 p.c. prefs.
Moving in the wrong direction for the
first time in seven years, net earnings fell
by 24.7 p.c. in the year ended June 30 last,
following the reduced rate of home-
building and the impact of higher wages
on production-costs. Gross earnings
(£319,505) were down by £49,178, and
represented 20.4 p.c. of the £1,563,283
turnover (down £102,331), compared
with the 22.1 p.c. of the previous term.
Depreciation was calculated at £50,573
(down £6974), and £61,200 (down
£16,600) was provided for taxation, leav-
ing net profit £33,432 lower at £101,572:,
z Dividends \ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. r Ord. N serves. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £3200 229,343
Tax underprovided, £6229 .. .. 226,143
1952.. 57,749 4436 10 p.c. =18,964 34,349 219,914
To staff fund, £5150 .. .. 214,764
1953.. 80,729 4437 12J p.c. =33,664 42,628 257,392
To staff fund, £5OOO 252,392
Tax overprovided, £16,567 .. .. 268,959
1954.. 123.583 4436 121 p.c. =41,282 77,865 346,824
Reserves capitalised, £84,049 .. 262,775
To staff fund, £3924 258,£51
1955.. 4436 121 p.c. =53,827 76,741 335,592
To staff fund, £250 335,342
Tax underprovided, £5OBO .. .. 330,262
1956.. 572 4436 12* p.c. =73,664 23,472 353,734
After meeting the pref. div., earnings
equalled 16.4 p.c. of the ord. capital, con-
siderably less than the previous term’s
30.3 p.c. on a lower average capital.
Ord. div. was unchanged at 12| p.c. A
recent High Court judgment indicated
that tax was payable on provisions for
accrued sick and holiday pay, the actual
payments only being recognised as
deductions from the income of the year
in which they occur. As a result of this
decision an additional £5OBO was required
to cover taxation on the earnings of the
preceding term.
The expansion evident in previous
years was checked during the term, and,
in spite of reduced production, the
balance-sheet shows an accumulation of
stocks (up £101,723), while debtors fell
by £20,774:
Capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £88,733 £88,733 £88,733
Ord 330,255 589,304 589,304
Reserves . . .. 346,824 335,692 353,734
Staff fund .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Overdraft . . . . 94,897 162,346 240,728
Creditors .. . . 96,805 100,149 69,510
Tax provision .. 93,583 88,261 67,331
Final div. . . 26,987 35,404 39,050
£1,103,084 £1,424,789 £1,473,390
Freeholds .. 290,490 395,706 384,846
Plant, etc. .. 347,081 465,573 444,235
Stock* . . . . 252,572 338,003 439,726
Debtors . . . . 208,922 221,043 200,269
Cash, etc. .. 4,019 4,464 * 4,314
£1,103,084 £1,424,789 £1,473,390
* Includes work-in-progress, less progress-payments.
Overdraft was increased by £78,382, but
there was £30,638 less owing to creditors,
working-capital, although somewhat less
liquid, improving by £44,208 to £227,690.
The recent Commonwealth Govern-
ment grant of £2 million and further
construction work at Kwinana oil-
refinery should promote increased
industrial activity in West Australia, and
the directors are confident that the
current term will see the restoration of
more stable conditions with a conse-
quent improvement in their co.’s earnings.
The market prices the f.-p. £1 shares
at 325., to return 7.8 p.c. from a p.c.
distribution, the 5 p.c. £1 prefs. yielding
6.2 p.c. at 16s. Net tangible assets provide
£ll 12s. 7d. cover for the prefs., the
ords. being supported to the extent of
325. 3d.


A Modern Self-contained Sanitary
System for All Unsewered Areas
ifPPo
I
m
m
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerag
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatically to
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSXAIi IT! The simple instruction card supplied manes
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
■DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIO.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore :
N.Z.:
N. Guinea :
Hvsreia Sanitarv Co. Pty. Ltd., 26 Bridge St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Val y.
HygeisT Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,, Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, Km,
William St., Adelaide.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
Hyieia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 CoUins SL. Mel-
bourne ; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also
Launceston, Tasmania. .
C T See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place. Singapore. __
Smith k Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., AuckUnd, N.Z.
Global Agencies, .James Building, Cuthbertson St., Fort Moreso. •
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
USE OF INSECTICIDES
IN a recent programme broad-
cast by the A.8.C., produced
by one. of the leading drug-
houses of Australia and entitled
“A Dip Is Born,” the suggestion
was made that, because of the
failure of emulsions to get full
value from the chlorinated per-
sistent insecticides D.D.T.,
8.H.C., aldrin, dieldrin, and the
like —manufacturers have turned
their attention to the use of a
water-dispersible powder.
With powder there is not the
ever-present risk of deterioration
through ageing, inversion,
“breaking” and general
instability associated with emul-
sions. Against this advantage,
there is the opinion of an
authority that powder “is objec-
tionable in sheep-dips because
the high clay-content remains in
the wool.”
My own opinion is that the
problem has been attacked from
the wrong angle.
The only reason for using the
newer insecticides in dips, jetting-
equipment and shower-sprays,
formulated in emulsions and dis-
persible powders, is that they do
not dissolve in water. G. C.
Brander, head of William Cooper
and Nephews technical depart-
ment, in an “M.0.L.” article
early this year stated the
problem clearly when he wrote:
“In our experience, the only time
exhaustion of a sheep-dip does
not occur is when the insecticide
used is in complete solution;
for example, sodium-arsenite in
water.”
But, in fact, the newer insec-
ticides (and earlier ones, such as
sulphur and derris) are relatively
insoluble in water: emulsion and
powder assist in keeping the
chemical in suspension. How-
ever, even with the best emul-
sions, precipitation begins as
soon as the water required for
dilution is added. It is this fail-
ing in emulsions to which our
attention was directed in the
radio-broadcast already
mentioned.
Evidently, that is the conclu-
sion after some 10 years of field
experience; one naturally
wonders whether a similar dis-
illusionment awaits us after
another 10 years if we adopt the
powder.
Some time back Dr. Belschner,
in a pamphlet put out by the
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, summed-up the situation.
The best method of utilising the
chemicals, he wrote, was in an
oil-solution; but, as he pointed
out, we cannot very well dip
sheep in oil. And there the
matter rested.
An executive of a concern with
If there is any justi-
fied criticism of Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
for marking and tail-
ing lambs and mark-
ing calves it is that,
until speed is achieved
by practice, the fitting
of a small rubber ring
on the prongs of an
instrument tends to
be a slower process
than using a knife.
But speed can be in-
creased by 50% by
using an Elastrator
Ring Loader. This / is
a container which is
designed to be
mounted on a post
and which releases the
rings singly. With a
loader in use the fit-
ting of the ring on
the instrument be-
comes automatic.
a world reputation, largely built
on dips, recently told present
writer that his firm had “walked
out of dips,” and was turning to
sprays ; and this, I think, is a
general trend.
Suitable equipment could be
made to use an oil-solution for
treating cattle and sheep. This
needs no inventive genius—it is
within the scope of any qualified
chemical-engineer.
“They must have footrot."
If proof were needed that
animals would not suffer any
distress or harmful effects by the
use of oil-solutions, we need only
consider work already done with
the “fogging”-machine, which,
despite its shortcomings, has,
since it was first introduced to
Australia, treated several million
sheep with the selected insecti-
cide formulated in oil-solution.
Of the two methods of treating
animals, the plunge-bath (dip)
and the spray, the latter is the
more reliable. In the case of the
dip, we depend on the chemical
in the dip adhering to the
animal’s body as it emerges from
the bath.
Unfortunately, there are no
figures available from which to
determine exactly what amount
of chemical is “stripped” from
the dip and retained on the body
of the treated animal. Too little
makes the whole process a com-
plete waste of time, money and
labor, while too much will kill
the animal, as was reported as
far back as 1952, in the 17th
annual report of the Meat Board.
At least with the spray we can,
with care, apply to each animal
the prescribed amount of
chemical, as laid down in the
directions. With the water pre-
parations, the demand is for
thorough saturation, to the point
of “run-off.”
Damp wool, among other
things, encourages fly-strike, and,
since even the best of the latest
insecticides is not an ovicide,
we can only trust that the minute
particles of chemicals are not
lost from the body of the animal
before the maggots emerge from
the eggs.
There is not the same risk of
this occurring with the oil-
solution, since, unlike water, oil
has a natural affinity for greasy
wool and hair, and also an
adhesive property, largely absent
in the water-preparations.
The dilution-rates for most of
the proprietary brands of emul-
sions are much the same. For
a brand of aldrin emulsion, the
rate of dilution is given as lgal.
of a 40 per cent. W/V concen-
trate to 400 gals. of water, to
treat 1600 sheep. With suitable
nozzles it should be possible to
spray the same number of sheep,
using the same weight of
chemical, with a fraction of that
amount of liquid, using oil.
Regarding the advantages of
oil, as compared with water,
from this particular viewpoint,
West, Hardy and Ford, in their
book Chemical Control of
make the comment:
“The main disadvantage of
sprays in general today is the
relatively enormous quantity of
water employed, the handling of
which represents a high propor-
tion of the total labor costs of
treatment.”
A natural query is: If the
case for an oil-solution is so
strong, why hasn’t some such
solution, with appropriate equip-
ment, been available for the
grazier over the last few years?
Well, one cannot dictate what
a commercial concern will or
will not manufacture. There are
certain risks for the manufac-
turer of any new equipment or
preparation. First, there has to
be a demand. It is only through
popular demand that we can
look for a change —and, of
course, it is necessary to establish
that a change is justified. Here,
perhaps, non-commercial bodies
such as the State Departments of
Agriculture and C.S.LR.O. can
best serve the public by investiga-
tion and comparison.
There is, too, an interesting
commercial background to the
marketing of fly-dressings, dips,
sprays and the like. Until
recently, the people who sold
these things received their
materials from the chemical-
industry, which naturally seeks
an outlet for its own products,
not those of another industry.
When one of the oil-companies
acquired aldrin and dieldrin, the
petroleum-industry came into the
picture. Up to then the interest
of the petroleum-industry in the
pest-control business had been
confined to supply of household
sprays (painted walls, varnished
surfaces, and delicate fabrics
make water-sprays unsuitable for
use in the house; so domestic
insect-killers were made-up with
refined kerosene) and of white
oils for horticultural use.
While there are certain limit-
ing factors to its general adop-
tion, the fogging-machine
showed, not only the way to the
employment of the oil-solution,
but what could be done with
insecticidal smoke or fog to deal
with flying insects. I quote from
a report in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” of April 3, 1956, on a
trial with fogging just before the
Royal Easter Show, to control
three-day fever:
“We were extremely worried,” Mr.
Pottie (Chief Veterinary Officer of the
R.A.S.) said. “Several cattle
exhibitors said that they intended to
withdraw their beasts at once. We
were, almost certain that the mosquito
was the blood vector of the disease
—the real culprit. u But we could not
use ordinary spray insecticides because
they might damage animals’ coats and
irritate their skins and eyes. We
would have had to obtain the per-
mission of every cattle exhibitor
before spraying, and that would have
been impossible. .
“After an experimental fogging had
rid one cattle pavilion and its sleep-
ing-quarters of mosquitoes, the other
cattle exhibitors agreed to let all other
pavilions be treated.
“After fogging not a mosquito was
found and three-day fever stopped
dead.”
Another example—an extract
from Royal Military College,
Duntroon, report, June 16,
1954: —
During rehearsal for Her Majesty s
visit, the fly-plague was particularly
bad and caused considerable concern,
as freedom from fly was an essential
to a successful parade.
Fogging began seven hours before
the commencement of the parade and
finished approximately four hours
before Her Majesty arrived on the
parade-ground.
A total area of approximately 50
acres was treated.
The results were far more effec-
tive than expected.
The whole area was completely free
of fly.
The fogging process, as carried out
at R.M.C., was 100 per cent, effective.
Again, quoting from Chemical
Control of Insects: “The
inadequacy of much of the
routine spray-equipment in dis-
persing mists to control flying
insects such as mosquitoes was
emphasised during the war,” and
the comment is made that, “Pro-
vided no health hazard is shown
to be involved, it is to be
expected that considerable use
will be made of smoke.”
There is a good case for the
use of smoke for blowfly,
fruit-fly, buffalo-fly, mosquito,
ajid other air-borne insects.
There has been recent
concern at the southward
spread of the buffalo-fly. My
opinion is that the swarms of
flies which gather around cattle
in stockyards, trucking-yards
and trucks would be sitting-
shots for the smoke. It would
also be valuable around dairies
—it is estimated that pestering
flies reduce milk-yield by from
5 to 10 per cent.
In the orchard, it would
control fruit-fly for a fraction of
the labor now involved in apply-
ing sprays and dusts. A simple
job, it could be done after sun-
down.
The female sheep-fly lays from
1700 to 2000 eggs in the short
season of activity—to kill one
female fly is to eliminate that
number of potential maggots.
During the season of strike, the
fly is never very far away from
the sheep. Further, the range of
the blowfly is shorter than that
of the bush-fly, which makes it
easier to control than the bush-
fly. As mentioned, the bush-fly
was successfully controlled for
a limited period at Duntroon.
In considering the two reports
quoted, bear in mind that these
were two important occasions,
when other means of coping
with the problem had been
considered and rejected, or found
wanting.
On the evidence, there is a
strong case for investigation by
competent authorities to deter-
mine whether the very valuable
insecticides now available are
being used to the best advantage.
Colin L. Martin.
Raising Native Trees
“Billjim”: Most native trees
and shrubs can be raised from
seed in the home-garden, and
spring is a good time to get on
with sowing, advises Victorian
departmental horticulturist A. J.
Plumridge.
Disadvantages of growing
plants in seed-beds in open
ground are that most of them
are small and are likely to be
washed out by heavy rain; and,
because they form a long tap-
root, they are difficult to trans-
plant. -
Plumridge advises sowing the
seeds in trays or shallow boxes
in a compost of light loam and


KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
jamps
burn
brighter
'
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD.. ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
caravanning costs
less on
z
r~.
*
multi-bonus
BENZOL
blends
BP
SUPER
c
SUPER
ANDARD
The BENZOL in BP
SUPER and C.O.R gives
these fine motor spirits
the multi-bonus advan-
tages of
1. BETTER STARTING
2. BETTER
PERFORMANCE
3. BETTER MILEAGE
‘ —all of which add up to
4. MAXIMUM MOTOR-
ING ECONOMY
Enjoy a further bonus with ENERGOL—the oiliest oil
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Limited 6/C445D
leaf-mould. Glass covers will
prevent the seeds being washed
out. Pack the soil firmly and
make the surface level; then
broadcast the seed evenly,
pressing it in and covering with
a light, sandy loam.
After germination, dibble the
seedlings into plywood-veneer
tubes. If ordinary pots are used
the seedlings quickly become
pot-bound, and if this occurs
many of them will fail to develop
when planted out.
When collecting the seeds of
eucalyptus, melaleuca, calliste-
mon and hakea, Plumridge
advises obtaining the fully-
ripened, unopened capsules.
After a week or two the capsules
will open and the seeds can
then be shaken out.
Seeds of berrying trees, such
as the eugenias, must be sown
when fully ripe, which is during
the winter. If allowed to dry-
out they will not germinate
well.
Several pre-sowing treatments
(especially necessary for
leguminous species, including
acacias and hardenbergias) may
be followed, but soaking in hot
water is the simplest, and quite
as effective as scarifying or
treating with sulphuric-acid.
Where various species of
acacias are .to be sown, Plum-
ridge says seeds of each should
be tied separately in pieces of
muslin with the name attached.
Then place the seeds in a con-
tainer and pour very hot water
over them in the evening ; allow
them to soak overnight and sow
in boxes next day. They should
then germinate in seven-to-14
days. As acacia-seeds are large,
they will need a good covering
of soil.
Weed-eater
“Orrorroo”: Like the cacto-
blastis which beat the prickly-
pear in Queensland, and the
ladybird which is eating back
St. John’s wort in the wetter
country, the red - and - black
cinnabar-moth from Europe
looks like thinning-out ragwort
—the “yellow-peril” weed—from
its outback haunts in Gippsland
(Vic.) and similar country.
Modern weedicides can deal
with the ragwort in the open, but
the weed still thrives up in the
hills where spraying is uneco-
nomic ; and it makes enough
seeds every year to start weed-
growth back in the plains again.
Although the cinnabar-moth
has not been released into these
areas, it is chewing-up the
foliage of ragwort in experi-
ment-plots. Having a bright
color, the moth is a good target
for birds and other local
predators.
However, if plentifully bred,
there would probably still be
enough of them left to kill the
“peril” after the birds and
predators had had their fill.
Copper-deficiency
“Dairy-Air”: With copper-
sulphate costing £6 per 1001 b.,
it’s much cheaper to feed it
direct rather than to topdress
pastures (often mat-grass which
does not assimilate copper) with
the 71b. per acre every three
months that has been proved
necessary on parts of the Queens-
land coast.
Cows will take to copper if it
is gradually added to their con-
centrates.
Feeding-costs
“Dairy-Air”: An officer of
the Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock has
advised me to try feeding each
dairy-cow 51b. of crushed
sorghum-grain with |lb. of
meatmeal each day, leaving two
control cows to help work out
the economics.
With sorghum at £2O a short
ton, or Is. for 51b., and meat-
meal at s|d. for l£lb,, the extra
cost is Is. s|d. per cow per day.
In addition, each cow gets enough
cobalt and copper to cover a
threepenny-bit each day (this
after blood-tests showed a
deficiency).
Each cow at the moment gives
a gross return of £5 per month
for cream, of which concentrates
take 435. 9d.
Even allowing for skim-milk,
yield-increase does not justify
the extra expense.
However, the feeding of 31b.
of sorghum and lib. of meat-
meal provides an increased yield,
perhaps mainly because the cows
are more contented in the bails,
letting down their milk better.
Grain-insurance
“Swanwater”: A lot of the
grain and the pasture-seed sown
every year never comes up, but
it is well worth putting in the
ground as an insurance against
such hazards as poor germina-
tion due. to moulding or mice,
and such other troubles as the
current attack by the septoria
fungus in Mallee (Vic.) wheat-
crops.
For this reason, losses due to
septoria may not be as bad as
originally feared, provided the
fungus has done no more
damage than to thin the crops.
Mallee Research Station
experiments show almost the
same yield from seedings in mid-
April, mid-May and mid-June,
whether the seed is sown at 301 b.,
451 b., 601 b. or 751 b. per acre.
Actually, seedings of less than
301 b. per acre can produce good
crops, as was proved in 1937,
when good crops followed a
thinning of plants due to poor
conditions early in the season.
Reason was that the fewer plants
had more and heavier heads of
grain than are found in a normal
season and at the usual seeding-
rates.
At least half of the 601b.-an-
acre recommendation is the
worth-while insurance against
many of the risks that a wheat-
crop faces.
Once again, the early, healthy
crops on fertile soil are proving
the most resistant to the present
disease.
Bananas
“Bill C.”: Banana-planters in
the North are often disappointed
when crops which promise well
suddenly go off and yield only
skinny, undersized fruit. Shelter,
such as offered by the shoulder
of a hillside, is vital to bananas ;
even a few cold nights in the
winter can mess-up a patch on
the flats. Other causes of poor-
quality bananas are lack of
moisture or too much of it,
hungry soil or heavy competition
from grasses or weeds. Bagging
can reduce winter damage, but
in all districts a northerly aspect
is best.
Crosscuts
“C.A.A.”: A special fertiliser-
mixture is now available to im-
prove the fertility of sandy
soils, mainly in vineyard areas
of S.A. Trials with the fertiliser
have demonstrated that it has
been responsible for good yields
of subterranean-clover. It also
improves the color of vines. The
fertiliser contains super., potash
and trace-elements, and costs £34
per ton. It should be used at
3cwt. per acre, lcwt. applied at
seeding-time and 2cwt. before
bud-burst in August.
* * *
“Sundowner”: Reports from
Victorian abattoirs on export-
lambs show a high proportion
of rejections due to bruised
carcasses —as much as six times
that of a decade ago. Main
causes are rough treatment and
trampling in trucks, wool-pulls,
dog-bites, and prods and pokes
with sticks.
* * *
Artificial-breeding season in
Queensland’s dairy-bull proving
scheme began on October 1.
This is the second year the
scheme has been in operation.
When introduced last year—the
first time artificial-breeding had
been used on a commercial
scale in Queensland —the Q.
Department of Agriculture and
Stock had to base its advice on
reports from . outside the State.
Now, the department reports,
local experience is a guide: for
instance, “experience last year
indicated that the best results
are obtained when cows are
mated artificially six to 10
weeks after calving.”
“Calves from 1300 artificial
matings made in 1955 are now
being born. The bulls used to
sire them have been retired from
use until the production-records
of their daughters determine
whether any of them are herd-
improvers and suitable for large-
scale breeding.”
• • • •
From N. S. Wales Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s annual
(1955) report: “Some 6913 first
inseminations were recorded at
the Berry Artificial Stock Breed-
ing Station. For the three months
ended August 28, 1954, the
conception-rate on first insemi-
nations was 68.6 per cent. x and
on second inseminations was
24.5 per cent.”
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(7/10/’56 )
Reasonably good general rains should fall in Queens-
land during November, and should be followed by further
good rains in December, with heavy falls in the northern
coast and Peninsula areas and on part of the southern
coast.
Moderately g*ood general rains are likely in N.S.W.
during November and rainfall should be above normal in
the far-west, with heavier falls on part of the North Coast.
Heavy general rains are likely in December.
General rains, above normal, are likely in Victoria
during November, but becoming patchy and varying from
light to moderate during December.
South Australia should receive further general rains,
above normal, during November-December, and these may
be heavy in the interior and Central Australia.
Good rains are indicated in the Kimberleys, De Grey,
East Gascoyne and part of the s.-w. central-north during
November, but the balance of W.A. is likely to have only
light, patchy rains. Apart from good falls in the Kimberleys,
De Grey and Fortescue, conditions should be mainly dry
during December.
LENNOX WALKER.
AGRICULTURAL OFFICER
IN CYPRUS
A vacancy exists for an Agri-
cultural Officer Class 1 (Soil Conserva-
tion Officer) in Cyprus. The appointee
will be required to undertake the
design and supervise the carrying out
of soil conservation works and to
assist in the formation of soil con-
servation divisions. Candidates must
possess a university degree in Soil
Conservation, Agriculture or Civil
Engineering or a recognised equivalent
qualification and should have special-
ise.! in soil conservation engineering
and have had considerable practical
experience in soil conservation works,
including land levelling, water disposal
and construction of masonry weirs and
in the use and maintenance of f heavy
earth moving machinery. Further
information will be furnished on
application to
PROFESSOR Z. COWEN,
Commonwealth Liaison Officer for
Cplonial Service Appointments, Uni-
versity of Melbourne.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
T 1 m
■ ■
I«i»
;
«gg& *
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
sssi Aassfirßsk. ifa&rgSMggsa*
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N- E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
But taking Mickey out was
nothing, although it meant 1 d
miss milking and the jobs that
had to be done even on Satur-
days. You could take him. out
any day, if you wanted him.
He was a kid’s pony ; lazy, spoilt
and getting old. He shared a ten-
acre paddock with the bull-calf
that was supposed to be being
weaned and was the pest of my
life.
The pest came rollicking
towards me. “I’m not your
bloody mother. Push off,” I told
him. He stopped and looked at
me, lowered his head and pawed
the ground. “Very impressive,”
I said. “But you’re only two.
You’re not grown-up, either.”
Mickey wasn’t nearly so keen
about me. As soon as he saw
me he lolloped in a vague way
to the middle of the paddock.
He was too knowall to retreat to
a fence.
I left the saddle on the gate,
hid the bridle behind my back
and walked towards him, calling
as endearingly as I could
manage. He let me come close
to him, though not too close,
and went on nibbling grass, but
kept an eye on me all the same.
He didn’t like work.
I held out an apple with my
free hand and tossed, it into the
air to show him it wasn’t just
grass. (Grass was a trick we
had had before.)
“Come and eat it, damn you,”
I said, but in the most ingratiat-
ing voice. He came.
I slipped the bit into his mouth
with the second bite and he gave
a start, but then he just
shuddered philosophically and
went on eating while I bridled
him. I led him over to the
fence and saddled him. I
tightened the girth until it
seemed to be cutting into his
flesh; held it there and waited.
Then he breathed out and I was
able to tighten it. That was
another of his little ways ; he
had wanted me to leap on and
the saddle to go from under me.
I’d fallen for it lots of times
before, but he should have
realised that just then I was
particularly conscious of the
meanness of life, and not to be
fooled.
Then I got on, thinking how
he was too fat for comfort and
if only I had Cobber, and we
galloped off. That’s to say we sort
of cantered. It was years since
Mickey had galloped, and neither
of us knew that he still could
nor that he would that day.
There was one gate I had to
dismount to open, and because
it was a difficult lock (wire, my
own handiwork), needing two
hands, I had to tie him while
I did it. And that was annoying,
too, because Mickey had to be
tethered with spectacular knots ;
he was very gifted at undoing
ordinary ones with his teeth,
and once away he was capable
of staying exactly ten yards in
front of you for hours. Cobber,
of course, a leggy chestnut that
was a horse and not a circus,
would have just stood there.
BUT once away from home
and free, everything was all
right. Mickey was fun, really.
He soon had me laughing.
Perhaps I wasn’t so nearly
grown-up at all.
You had to ride like the Man
from Snowy River just to keep
Mickey moving. You had to
keep your brains in your hands,
slackening and tightening the
reins, to keep him on the road
—and yourself on his back. You
had to watch for his sudden
dash under an overhanging
bough.
We rode loosely for an hour,
and when we came to where
Mad Miss Millaney lived he
wanted to go in, as we often
did. But I didn’t feel like talking
to anyone old, and made him
go on, and he got sad and only
wanted to walk. So I let him
munch grass all along Millaney
Lane while 1 chewed an apple
and watched the sky through the
wattle-trees that lined the lane
and joined overhead.
“Go-o-one, go-o-one,” warbled
a magpie, and I looked at myself
in the puddle Mickey was
drinking from and laughed.
“Come on, Dmitri Mikhailo-
vitch!” I called Mickey that for
short, when there was time. It
was a pet-name that not even
Ted knew. “Come on, I’ll race
you a mile.” /
We galloped as fast as I
thought Mickey could, away
from the lane, ouL on the red
road, with a turn to the east.
We loitered, then, and had an
apple each. We found a creek
with grass for Mickey and wild
blackberries for me, and quan-
dongs to plop into the water.
Then another gallop, with
Mickey up to his tricks and me
laughing.
I didn’t even think of the time
till I noticed the shadows were
long in front of me. And then
I didn’t know where I was ; we’d
come further than we’d ever
come in this direction before.
I didn’t want to go back the
way we’d come; that would
have taken till after dark, and
Mickey and I had a rule: Never
the way we came! A triumphant
rule, as things turned out.
So I tethered him carefully
and climbed a tree. It wasn't
a very high tree, but it let me
see our gibber-hill and know that
we were nearly directly opposite
home. “We’ll do it in good
time,” I said, “if only we can
go cross-country.”
But we had to follow the
creek until we came to a road
not the one we had come by.
And, when we did, it went east
again, not south, not our way.
There was no choice but to take
it, though. It was that or go
back. And it was sure to have a
turn.
“It’s not much of a life,
Mickey,” I said. “But they’re
mine, I suppose, and I’ve got to
put up with them.”
And then he threw me. The
road had turned a heavy red,
and we were splashing through
mud. I should have been
suspicious when he ran into it
without any bullying. I knew
that he didn’t like mud, but
wasn’t thinking, and was trusting
him.
A few yards into the mud was
a pool of water, a brown color
but quite clean, with the sky in
it. We were moving quickly,
and I was leaning low, urging
him on, when he stopped dead
on the brink, threw down his
head and waited for me to sail
over the top of him, I had just
time to remember to hold the
ieins even if it broke his neck,
and to fall sensibly,, when I
found myself sitting in the
puddle with the sky breaking all
around me.
I’d held them, though. I still
had Mickey.
He shook his head this way
and that, fairly calmly, with a
sort of hopeless disgust that made
me laugh. “You beggar,” I
called him. I splashed out, shook
myself, brushed at the mud and
remounted.
We rode on. There was a fork
to the east, and we took it.
“Home!” I said.
A fox in a wheat-paddock
raced with us for a while, he on
the inside of a “rabbitproof”
fence. They couldn’t have had
any slaves there to look after it.
I tried to get Mickey to pace
against him, but the fox soon
left us and ran into the wheat,
because we were coming to a
house.
A BOARD - AND - HESSIAN
place with kerosene-tins
where the old stuff had given
out; the kind of place rabbiters
call home if they call anywhere
home—there was a half-starved
bitch chained to a kennel, and
she barked at us. There was a
garden near the veranda full of
geraniums and plotted with beer-
bottles that had been half-buried
and arranged like a border of
tiles, a castellated effect.
So I knew there must be a
woman there.
The bottles had been washed
by the rain and they were shining
in the sun. Then I saw her, the
woman. She was sitting on a log
away from the house. She was
leaning forward so that her
hair was hanging over all her
face. It was shining-bright as
though it had just been washed,
and the moment I saw it I knew
who she was. It was fire-red ;
she must be the Carrington girl.
Everyone knew about her,
even Ted and I. She was one of
the Carringtons who used to live
at Wenda. She’d been the talk
of the district when I was only
a kid ; the things she said and
the things she did ; her bright
red hair. There were stories
about the men who came for
miles to see her, graziers from
out west and city men from the
east. She could have had anyone,
but she ran off with Runty
Bloom the rabbiter (that was his
polite name), the one who went
weeks without a shave, who
drank all his money and had a
wife in Sydney. She couldn’t
even marry him, just up and go
with him; that was all. Even in
the Big Town they talked
about it.
The Carringtons moved (not
because of the disgrace—because
of the price they were offered)
and everyone stopped talking
and found some fresher gossip.
But they never let go of the
phrase “hair like the Carrington
girl,” and I knew her by that.
The dog had barked and
Mickey had neighed (he didn’t
like strange dogs), but she
hadn’t looked up. So I called to
her. But she went on sitting
there with her head bent and
her hair falling over it, down to
her knees.
I tied Mickey to the fence,
opened the gate and walked over
to her. “Hallo, missus,” I called,
so as not to creep up and
frighten her. “Anything wrong?”
“What do you want?” her
voice was heavy, as though she’d
been sobbing, and she raised her
head, but slowly, with both
hands pushing back her hair. It
was damp; she had just washed
it, and I could see a mark on
her forehead where the washing
had stopped. Her face was
dirty and had tear-marks on it.
They were dry ; it had been a
a long time since she’d cried.
One of her eyes had a blue circle
round it and looked sore.
I’d never seen a woman with
a black-eye before, and I
stared at her, for a long time.
Sh§ was wearing a sort of
long house-gown, old and
stained, with some buttons miss-
ing. It wasn’t only her face and
her hands that were dirty ; it was
all of her, even where a broken
button opened the front of her
gown. .1 stared at her and the
shiny washed hair.
“Well,” she said in her choky
voice. “Well, what do you
want?”
The voice, the hair, the open
gown; the long ride perhaps—
—l felt my legs trembling and
heard the words creak out of me.
“You . . . you must be the
Carrington girl.”
“The Carrington girl,” she
said. “The Carrington girl.” She
put one hand to her hair and
patted it the way girls do when
they’re sure of themselves.
“Who’s she?”
I felt so hot and tired, I
couldn’t want to answer, and I
just stood there staring and
running my tongue round my
top lip for the taste.
“Are you dumb?” she said.
“Can’t you talk? What do you
want?”
I could feel the one apple in
my pocket, pressing against my
leg. I thought of tea at home ;
the long ride. “1... I’m hungry,”
I said.
She looked at me and bit her
lip as though she’d laugh.
“Hungry, are you? Then, come
inside.” She turned and walked
towards the house.
I followed her, but slowly
because my legs felt stupid.
“Damn Mickey and his tricks!”
I thought. “It’s all his fault.”
The veranda-floor was earth,
and there was a big man
stretched face-down in the
doorway to the inside room. He
was wearing trousers and shoes.
There were grey hairs growing
out of his back. It was Runty
Bloom. I’d have thought he was
dead only I could smell the gin
from him and the sickly smell
of vomit.
We stepped over him, and
there we were in a dark little
room with a tin roof and a man
in the doorway.
“He’s drunk,” she said. “Dead
drunk. He doesn’t know any-
thing. Doesn’t know anything.”
TT was getting to dark when I
-*• untied Mickey and made the
dog bark.
She stood in the shadow on
the veranda, so that I could
hardly see her as I waved. But
I knew she was watching, and I
rode as beautifully as I could,
as though it were Show Day, till
I was behind the trees and out
of sight.
“Now, Mickey,” I said.
“Now!” I jabbed him with my
heels.
Heels had never had any effect
on him before (he had a hide
like Mickey), but now he ran,
ran. He must have been
frightened, so nearly dark and
so far from home ; he ran like a
story - horse “three parts
thoroughbred at least.” And we
beat the clouds, so that we came
out at the redr side of the gibber-
hill before it was dark.
I rode him like mad. We had
to get home. There’d be a father
of a hiding and a mother in
hysterics if we didn’t. And I
wanted to see them, to fit into
the pattern, to behave like a
grown-up.
“Now, Mickey. Now!” I said
to him, and I plunged him on
to the overgrown track that ran
from the hill to our front gate.
“Now! ”
It was an old cart-track, never
used except by trappers, pocked
with rabbit-holes and crossed by
gullies that the water from the
hill made. Only little ones yet,
but with banks that crumbled at
a touch. There were fallen
branches on the ground, and
cypress-pines growing low and
close, and gumtrees with low
boughs that nobody bothered
now to lop. It was night on the
track before it was dark any-
where else in the world. We’d
never have galloped it by day,
never have tried at another time,
but then . . . “Now, Mickey.
Now!”
He moved like a dream, clear-
ing the bushes, leaping. I leant
my face against his neck, to miss
the branches and to praise him.
“The hidden ground is full of
wombat-holes,” I assured him,
“and any slip means death.”
When we got home I tied him
near the woodheap out of
Dad's sight, washed my face and
hands at the old tank, crept into
the kitchen and put back the
clock. Then I made my entrance
across the veranda through the
dining-room door. I was as
casual as you like, as sure of
myself. .
“Tea ready?”
“You young devil, where have
you been? Your mother’s half-
sick”—
“Oh, Will”
“Sorry, Mum. But I’ll bet it’s
not seven yet.”
“If you’ve altered the clock
again,” said Dad, “I’ll belt the
hide off you! ”
“I can’t win! I can’t win!”
And I laughed. Oh, how I
loved them!
“What’s there to eat?” That’s
all I could say. “I’m terrible
hungry.” That made me laugh
again.
“Sit down,” said Mum.
“You’ll be the death of me yet.”
I looked at myself in the
mirror over the mantelpiece
while I was eating. I didn’t look
any different. We ate in silence ;
only Dad said, “Have a good
day?”
“Yes.”
“Good,” he said. Then after a
while, “Did you fix Mickey?”
“Yes.”
“Good boy.”
After the washing-up I crept
outside to walk Mickey down to
his paddock. I took off his
saddle and rubbed him with a
bag, and let him drink from the
old dam, the one he liked best.
“How can they help it?” I
said to him. “They’re so old,
and old. You’ve got to be kind
to them. They’ve forgotten
everything, everything. Here!”
I held out the last apple for
him while he crunched it.
“Ted’ll say it’s all a story,”
I said ; “one of my stories. He
doesn’t know what we’re like,
what a ride \ye’ve had, Mickey.
He won’t believe any of it. But
I’ll make him believe, I’ll —I’ll
draw him a diagram.”
stitched. I was beginning to
wish I was home with Mamma.
The second day of the storm
a green sea smashed the galley-
skylight. After that we couldn’t
keep the water out, and there
wasn’t much cooking done for a
while. In the corner of the
galley was a coal-bunker full of
Yankee slack (coal like powder).
This, mixed with the two-feet of
seawater sloshing about on the
galley floor, produced a thick,
inky mixture that blocked the
scuppers.
The third day everyone
thought the ship was going to
turn over. When she rolled we
could see the horizon through
the skylight.
Eventually we made our land-
fall, and steamed up the
Delaware River to Philadelphia,
where they took us under a large
ramp that carried trucks mast-
high and tipped them over on
their sides, loading us down past
the plimsoll with coal.
Going over we were a cork.
Coming home we were a sub-
marine. Even in fine weather
the well-decks were awash.
At Plymouth we moored out
in the stream and they paid
us off on board. Asked if I’d
sign on again I politely declined,
grabbed my two-months’ pay
and suitcase, hailed a passing
fisherman in a pulling-boat like
you would a taxi, and tumbled
down the Jacob’s ladder.
My first, and last, cargo-boat.


A new novel to repeat the fabulous success of
Moulin Rouge
Pierre la M ure’s
Beyond Desire
The most romantic story of all time. Based on the life and loves of Felix
Mendelssohn, and set in the glittering artistic world of nineteenth-century
Furone 18 s * 9d.
' COLLINS
ENTERTAINING READING
STRANGER IN ITALY
by Herbert Kubly.
In this brilliantly readable book, written
after 14 months of travelling round Italy,
the author vividly brings the country
and her people to life. “One of the best
books about Italy since the war.” (The
listener.) “Magnificent and very moving.”
(The Sphere.)
29/9 (post 1/1)
WING LEADER
by ‘Johnnie’ Johnson.
This is the story of a young civil
engineer who became the top-scoring
Allied fighter pilot in World War 11. His
graphic descriptions of battles in the air
and absorbing narrative of his years in
the air force make this, in the words of
Douglas Bader, “a splendid book.”
18/9 (post lid.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
West to a nation hungry for news of
its frontier. Eventually he was able
to take his show to London for the
golden-jubilee of Queen Victoria and,
in subsequent tours, to Europe. “It is
certainly a novel idea,” said the “Illus-
trated London News” in some advance-
publicity, “for one nation to give an
exhibition devoted exclusively to its
own frontier history.... on the soil of
another country 3000 miles away”;
and the “Era,” whose correspondent
had ventured to New York, described
the kind of entertainment Queen
Victoria was to see: —
You have real cowboys with buck-
ing horses, real buffaloes, and great
hordes of steers, which are lassoed
and stampeded in the most realistic
fashion imaginable. Then there are
real Indians who execute attacks
upon coaches driven at full speed.
No one can exaggerate the extreme
excitement and “go” of the whole
performance. It is simply immense,
and I venture to predict that when it
comes to London it will take the
town by storm.
One of the celebrities of the Wild
West show was, of course, little Annie
Oakley with her gun (with which she
shattered glass balloons tossed into the
air); and one of the Indian braves, in
an early season, was none other than
Sitting Bull, against whom Buffalo Bill
had fought when the chief led the
Sioux (in council if not in the actual
battle) against the famous General
Custer of the Last Stand. Sitting Bull,
however, could not be persuaded to do
anything much except sit; and, though
he wisely took the opportunity to “sell
his photograph by the hundreds” and
helped the outfit to make over a
million dollars (he himself was on 50
dollars a week), was not available for
the later triumphs in Europe. He
went back to his reservation and
smoked his pipe.
But what exactly did Buffalo Bill do
when, in the midst of a performance
in Wilmington, he shouted dramatic-
ally, “I’m through with playing at war!
I’m going West to take part in it!” and,
still wearing his black velvet Mexican
cowboy-outfit, set off with trimmings
of gold and silver lace and buttons and
slashed with crimson, he dashed off to
join Custer’s forces? Did he scalp
Yellow. Hand or not? It appears, on
the whole, that he did. But did they
dash head-on together to meet in single
combat like knights of old at a tourney?
Well, according to eyewitnesses, it
didn’t happen quite the way Buffalo
Bill claimed in his autobiography.
Did he really, as a child, like the
juvenile heroes of some of our bush-
ranging ballads, ride to warn his father
that the pro-slavery men were hot on
his trail? Was he a pony-express rider
at the age of 14, and, if he was, did he
really shoot a bad-man? Did he walk
a thousand miles shooting Injuns with
Wild Bill Hickok, which he claimed to
have done but which Hickok did not
mention in his own autobiography?
Who told the truth about his first meet-
ing with his wife—Buffalo Bill, who
said that he caught Louisa’s horse
when it was bolting with a broken
bridle; or Louisa, who said that they
were introduced by his cousin and
that, young Bill having “made a remark
which she misinterpreted,” she slapped
his face?
Did he save General William Tecum-
seh Sherman from being lost when he
was on his way to confer with the
Indians at Council Springs in 1865?
It was, alas. Generals Harney and San-
born, not Sherman, who conferred
with the Indians that year. Did he
really shoot Tall Bull (whose horse,
of the same name, he afterwards rode
in his Wild West show, “the fleetest
west of the Mississippi”) when he was
scouting for General Carr against the
Pawnees in 1869; or was it somebody
else who did the deed, while Buffalo
Bill collared the horse; or was it true,
as one wicked account suggests, that
Bill wasn’t even there?
These are weighty matters; and Mr.
Weybright and Mr. Sell are rather
weighed down by them. Their book
is a laborious sifting of facts rather
than a living biography. But they are
not weighed down when they get to
the surer territory of Buffalo Bill’s
glorious career in the show-business;
and if only for their account of the
first melodrama from which it all
developed, when the author forgot to
write the piece until three days before
the opening and when Buffalo Bill, not
surprisingly, completely forgot his
lines, this book is worth reading:—
As Buntline saw his hastily
written dialogue lost for ever he was
at his wits’ end how I to bring the
curtain down on the first act.
Finally he signalled into the wings
for the phony Indians. They came
in screeching, looking like badly
made-up tramps from the railway-
yards. Following their mentor’s
example, Buffalo Bill and Texas Jack
seized their guns and pretended to
shoot the hostiles.... In the second
act a half-hearted attempt was made
to revive the plot. One critic said it
was “a three-cornered fight between
the scouts, the Indians and some
characters supposed to be whites,”
led by the lugubrious Caleb Durg,
“a human nightmare who managed
to keep drunk for several hours with-
out a drop of anything.”
It was so dreadful that the audience
took it as comedy, and loved it. And
when he forgot his lines and told yarns
of the frontier instead, Buffalo Bill
learned that audiences did want to
hear about the Wild West and the part
-—whatever it was; and he must have
done something—that he played in the
life of the frontier.
Reviewed Briefly
Murder Belongs to Me: Roderick
Wilkinson (Museum). A private-eye
in Glasgow to investigate the black-
mail of a whisky-millionaire’s son runs
across a gang of crooks using Scottish
nationalist mailing-lists to rake in the
bawbees —it’s a worthy effort to put a
Hollywood-gangster mask on the faces
of honest Scottish ruffians, but it just
doesn’t fit.
* * * *
Horror on the Ruby X: Frances
Crane (Hammond). The Pat Abbott
couple are driving among the moun-
tains of the Rio Grande when they
become involved in the difficulties of
a rancher whose father killed himself,
leaving him his property, his volatile
little wife and her susceptible son.
They are there in this ranch full of
Indian servants with a vulgar painter
befriended by the mother, a New York
shopgirl, whose father is in prison,
and the father’s old Bible-reading
sister. The heir’s wife has been killed
in a motor-accident; and other motor-
accidents are happening too frequently,
Most of them are made so repulsive
that you feel Miss Crane picked the
murderer with a pin.
9 * * *
. „ .
There s Always a Price-tag: James
Hadley Chase (Hale). Mr. Chase is
good on the last days of a Hollywood
producer whose contract will not be
renewed because of his drinking. His
beautiful wife, who has driven him to
drink, is trying to drive him (it is a
habit of hers) to suicide, so that she
may collect the 750,000-dollar insur-
ance. If the rest of the story, about
the chauffeur who was partly in cahoots
with the wife and partly on the side of
the producer, had been left for a detec-
tive to Bnd out, instead of being told
by the chauffeur, it might have made a
good mystery; but Mr. Chase is no
James M. Cain, and his efforts at a
sympathetic study of criminals end in
boredom and disbelief.
* * * *
„ „ „ ~
**®? T rse f° r A^re( 3
Eichler (Hammond). The founder of
an advertising-agency is found dead in
hospital with a pair of paper-scissors
stuck into his heart; and the murderer
is the member of his staff you first
think of; but until the reader is put
quite out of doubt there is a not-bad
parade of New York advertising vice-
presidents, millionaire advertisers, etc.,
and no little insight into the mampula-
tion of a big advertismg-agency.
* * * •
Where the Incas Trod: Nuri Mass
(The Writers’ Press, Sydney). There
is some fascinating material in this
account of life in a remote part of the
Argentine Thorny Desert more than
30 years ago. The mica to be found
in the district had brought the author’s
family to that almost forgotten spot,
and failure and disappointment had
held them there for nearly three years.
The people among whom they lived,
degenerate descendants of the Incas,
existed in the most primitive circum-
stances, without morals or law. But
the strangeness of their customs and
values, the remnants of their ancient
skills, the wonders of the desert itself
and the personal hardships and diffi-
culties met and overcome by the
author’s mother make very interesting
reading. The style of the book is
naive. Cliches abound (“the mighty
Amazon,” “intrepid explorers,” “pul-
sating heat,” etc.) There are old-
fashioned inversions such as “Never
did l a d set eye on her,” and sentences
begin with « 0 h God!” and “But alas!”,
yet the clarity and sincerity of the
writing carry it through, and the
no velty of the subjectmatter holds the
reader’s interest to the end.
* * * *
The Pack . John Rowan wi]son
v rp, M
(Hememann \ T , d p ? f f ?
was - n 0 doubt ’ due . for some debunk-
ing-7-eveiy doctor is not a knight m
shining armor as one school of novelists
f° r l° n g bad us suppose, and successful
medicos, like successful practitioners
of any of the professions (clergy not
excepted), have perforce to be reason-
ably adequate businessmen with
gHoygb toughness in their make-up to
survjve compe tition. The possession
toughness does not necessarily
make a good performer into a bad
character, however, in spite of Mr.
wilson ’ s special pleading. His book
j s a b ou t a young doctor who is beaten
before he starts by his innocent lack
lamina, and the events in a hospital
which serve to demonstrate this sad
f ac t are not new or dramatic enough
t 0 interest most people—confirmed
cynics with chips on their shoulders
about the medical profession will love
it. The rest of us can wish the hero
well in Canada, where, as the book
closes, he is retiring to lick his sores,
and can be thankful that the vogue
for packing such misfits off to Aus-
tralia seems to be over.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 404
Across
I—Stitch sound that might be
expected of brook and prairie.
(4, 3,5)
9 Concerning birth of Gould and
Jolson. (5)
10— Beat pledging an illuminating
activity. (4-8)
11— From a duck fortissimo. (3)
13—Sally has a nut after treatment by
a nut-cracker. (4)
)4 —With scrambled egg over, I name
a king. (6, 2)
16 — Railway sleeper blushing in ranks.
(6)
17— Scotch ghost. (6)
19— Holy tunes? They take you
closer to heaven. (6)
20— Dreiser heroine carried on with-
■ out Bradman. (6)
22—Things believed an alderman, an
English Prime Minister, and an
American prosecutor. (8)
-3—Goddess is as a drunkard might
see it. (4)
24—Kick to the East. (3)
27—Mercery in beer spoilt in a N.S.W.
country town. (12)
28 Some coppers are backward
people. (5)
29 —A breakfast course beat it and
lost some blood urge. (9, 3)
Down
1— Seaman's column is to mention
Lot’s wife. (6, 2,4)
2 Strong statement against anything
about the hypnotic sleep of a
Belgian battlefield. (12)
3 Marble confederate. (4)
4 Who closely follows the Spanish
poetry of inferior quality. (8)
5 Salter confused the Stock
Exchange sales made after the
Call. (6)
6 Where to spot the Oldfield, the
Langley, and the Tallon hosts.
(10)
7 Her unhappy husband thinks she
wouldn’t if she was perhaps
hoarse. (3)
8 — An eye-catching feature of the
peach food for a prodigal. (4)
11 — Bees on silver (anagram). (12)
12 — Coming out for this action in
court. (12)
15 —This makes a popular pear be a
capital of Chaldea turning sober
before 100. (6, 4)
18 —Put Seaman George Windsor
ashore because of a greedy act
with property. (4, 4)
21 —Early Greek colony in Asia
Minor. (6)
25 — Although there is nothing to
write, don’t shut up! (4)
26 Join is keen for a change. (4)
27 — The middle note the bone firm’s
lettuce island of the Aegean. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 403


Li*
Li*
C'LJ
CLJ
C'iJ!
m
i
jt
rx
•m
sr
m
2.000
lbs
The unique design of the
Graham Shank and Coiled
Oscillating Springs
Assembly does not release
when it strikes an object.
Nor does it bring into play all sorts of toggles,
stop plates, compensating springs, overload releases
and over centre mechanisms to allow it to snap
out of position when it has passed a difficult
object or tries to negotiate one. The Graham
Shank, with its simple design, stays in work all
the time. If the shank cannot rip out an obstacle,
the coiled oscillating spring, after exerting 2,000 lbs.
presssure on the shank, will force the shank to drag
over the object.
9
This simple shank and
coiled oscillating spring
assembly has no wearing
parts, nothing to oil or
grease and needs no
adjustment. We have
never replaced a hinge bolt or hinge plate from
wear in the many thousands of plows we have sold
in Australia. Now, with the latest spigot hinge plate,
all “T” bolt wear is eliminated.
The Graham Shank and Coiled Oscillating Spring
Assembly, explained here, are two of the outstand-
ingly superior features of the Graham Plow. They
are but two of the features that keep the Graham
far ahead of its attempted imitators.
You, the-man-on-the-land, will understand why
Yeomans Proprietary Limited, the manufacturers
of this truly remarkable implement, offer you such
an exceptional guarantee.
The Graham Plow Frame is guaranteed
unconditionally for 2 years and the Graham
Shank and Coiled Oscillating Spring for
12 months against bend or break.
WE INTEND TO MAINTAIN THIS GUARANTEE.
Because we believe you, the producer, demand
high qualify in your implement, in the knowledge
if means bigger crops, better pastures—your time
and your money saved.
BUY YOUR GRAHAM ON EASY TERMS!
A small deposit secures your plow immediately.
Balance is paid by easy monthly instalments.
Write us for full particulars of the "PAY LATER"
PLAN.
NO. I OF A SERIES
we guarantee the
GRAHAM
PLOW
—and why we intend
to maintain
this guarantee!
The Mighty Graham Shank . . .
0
0
This is no ordinary shank. It is
the shank designed by the two ex-
perienced American farmers who
patented the original Graham
Hoeme Chisel Plow in U.S.A. and
other countries of the world. Made
of high carbon silicon chrome steel,
this 2" x 1" shank possesses tre-
mendous strength. It is held in its
rigid position by a single “T” bolt.
The Graham Shank is attached to
a spigot a method which does
away with all “T” bolt wear.
The Graham 2" x 1" Shank was
tested and re-tested for hundreds
of hours of experimental work on
all types of Australian soil. Under
Australian conditions, a narrower
shank would bend and break and
not burst the soil. A wider shank
defeats the purpose of chiselling
the soil and bursting the soil. It
tends to bring up the subsoil and
turn over the sod.
As stated earlier the Graham Shank
is held in position by a single “T”
bolt. Over this “T” bolt is mounted
a heavy coiled oscillating spring.
When the shank tends to drag back
in operation, this coiled oscillating
spring automatically forces it to
return to its normal position. It
is this action, repeated many hun-
dreds of times, that gives the jack
hammer or punching effect into
the soil leaving at the bottom
an uneven, jagged narrow trench,
a reservoir for moisture, stopping
soil particle flow —allowing mois-
ture penetration into the fractured
area. This oscillating—added to
the natural whip of 41 3 /4" of shank
—is the reason for such pheno-
menal digging at low horse power
requirements.
V
There's a Graham Plow
Agent in your district.
He's always ready to
arrange a demonstration
on your own land —behind
your own tractor.
Fill in coupon and send to us for full facts
of the Graham Plow.
NAME
ADDRESS -i
I State make and model of your tractor !
<* w
*
i ? -
sas
•> :
Sms
■■:*.>
This is the Graham Model J, 10 ft.—the most popular trailing plow for
average farm tractor. Unique lifting mechanism cannot creep. £365 fsteel
wheels optional!. May be increased to 12 ft. width for additional £35 or
14 ft. for additional £7O.
GRAHAM PLOW
The original and genuine chisel plow is patented throughout the world and manufactured
in Australia under licence from the Graham-Hoeme Plow Co., Amarillo, Texas, U.5.A., by
YEOMANS PROPRIETARY
LIMITED
537 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. MX 2515. AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
