

SOLERO
The Bulletin
SYDNEY SHOW SUPPLEMENT
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3972
Wednesday, March 28, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
■JW'ORWICH, the capital of East Anglia,
is a busy and thriving city of 120,000
people. It is the administrative capital,
shopping and market centre for the great
agricultural county of Norfolk and part
of Suffolk as well. At the same time,
it is one of the chief shoe-manufactur-
ing towns in Britain ; it also has large
engineering works and a variety of pros-
perous light industries.
All this busy commercial and indus-
trial life is super-imposed upon the pat-
tern and intermingled with the buildings
of ancient Norwich which was founded
a thousand years ago as a Saxon settle-
ment. It rose to great wealth and im-
portance after the Norman Conquest in
the 11th century. From then until the
18 th century it disputed with Bristol the
distinction of being the second largest
city in England after London.
The charm of Norwich lies in the mix-
ture of the modem with the medieval and
few cities have retained so much evidence
of the historic past. The modern artisan
cycles or drives to work along the same
narrow streets that once swarmed with
Elizabethan journeymen who worked at
their looms in the steep-gabled houses
which still exist today.
Another distinctive feature of Norwich
is the patterned flintwork used in the
building of some of the city’s ancient con-
structions. The most important of these
is the beautiful early-15th century Guild-
hall, illustrated here. In this building be-
side the market-place the City Council
regularly held its meetings from 1413
until 1938 when the new City Hall, near-
by, was completed. In the 19th century
the exterior of the Guildhall was much
altered but the diamond pattern of flint
and freestone on the front wall is part
of the original building.
Notable features of the interior are the
linen-fold panelling of the walls and the
carved oak-beamed ceiling. The furnish-
ings of the old Council Chamber are very
much the same today as in 1578 when a
pageant was presented there for the enter-
tainment of Queen Elizabeth I. In 1797
Lord Nelson was made a freeman of the
city and a letter from him, together with
the sword of a Spanish admiral, which he
presented to the city after the Battle of
Cape St. Vincent, are preserved in the
Council Chamber. In the dungeon be-
neath the building, the martyr, Thomas
Bilney, was imprisoned before he was
burnt at the stake in 1531.
No. 291: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
THE NORWICH GUILDHALL, A COUNCIL MEETING-PLACE FOR FIVE CENTURIES


CMBiU.
TEB, Box 2671, G.P.O., Sydney,
e for readers. That difficult to obtain
let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
THOSE NAUGHTY
VICTORIANS
Amusing and entertaining though it
is, Cyril Pearl’s The Girl with the
Swansdown Seat (Frederick Muller
Ltd. ; Shakspeare Head) is a curious
book for an Australian journalist to
write —an exposure of the naughtiness
of Victorian England—and the more
curious in that in his photographic-
album, “Our Yesterdays,’] Mr. Pearl
displayed a lively interest in Victorian
Australia. Why not an exposure of our
own misbehavior, which has always
been quite as formidable as anything
Mr; Pearl can unearth in London?
Having been written, it remains a
curious book to read. It is peculiarly
formless, lacking any clear progression;
and, with newspaper sub-headings in
italics every half-minute or so interrupt-
ing the flow of the narrative, reads
more like a collection of journalistic
“specials” than a properly organised
and integrated work of literature.
And it is, again, peculiarly lacking
in purpose. Mr. Pearl never seems to
be quite sure whether he is a kind of
retrospective Victorian Dr. Kinsey,
coldly and scientifically tabulating for
a shocked world the astronomical
statistics of London prostitution in the
’fifties ; or a social historian in a state
of extreme indignation with the lower-
class vice of the period and the writers
who hushed it up; or a connoisseur of
fashionable naughtiness, following
more-or-less in the footsteps of the
Sitwells and Alexander Woollcott, en-
chanted with the famous courtesans of
the day such as “Skittles” and Cora
Pearl. The only thing that is really
dear about it all is that Mr. Pearl is
more-than-ordinarily annoyed with Mr.
Michael Sadleir, who said that the
’fifties were respectable—so annoyed
that he has left him out of the index.
There seem to be odd gaps in Mr.
Pearl’s literary and historical scholar-
ship, or at least in his field-of-aware-
ness; as, for instance, when he remarks
that “It was a common whimsy at the
time to sharpen lechery with the spice
of blasphemy by calling a brothel an
abbey,” without going on to recall that
the Elizabethan euphemism—a focal-
point in one of the evergreen “Hamlet”
controversies—was “nunnery.”
Similarly, it seems pointless to attack
Trollope, along with Dickens and
Thackeray, for having “emasculated
their writings to suit readers like Mrs.
General”: for the problems of London
prostitution were simply not relevant
to the clerical life of Barchester which
Trollope was trying to portray; nor
were the village amours which, in our
own day, have been so delightfully de-
picted by Theodore, Llewelyn and
John Cowper Powys. It should at
least be remembered of Trollope that
he had Archdeacon Grantly reading
Rabelais in the seclusion of his study;
of Thackeray, repellent as are his mora-
listic railings at his heroine, that there
is really quite a lot of naughtiness in
“Vanity Fair”; and of Dickens, ridicu-
lous though Little Emily and Martha
may be (and Annie Strong, too, one
might add), that the sinners and prosti-
tutes of Dostoievsky are just as senti-
mental—but Dickens can hardly be
accused of “emasculating” the portraits
of Miss Wade, Lady Dedlock and that
fiery creature Rosa Dartle.
Still, however erratically Mr. Pearl
pursues his course, and however often
the period has been debunked, it may
still be news to many readers to discover
that it was
an age when prostitution was wide-
spread and flagrant; when many
London streets were like Oriental
bazaars of flesh ; when the luxurious
West End nighthouses dispensed love
and liquor until dawn ; when fashion-
able whores like Skittles and Agnes
Willoughby rode with duchesses in
Rotten Row and eminent Victorians
negotiated for the tenancy of their
beds; when a pretty new suburb
arose at St. John’s Wood as a sera-
glio for mistresses and harlots, and
at popular pleasure-gardens like
Cremorne and Highbury Barn prosti-
tution was given a setting of wood-
land charm .... when pornography
became a well-organised industry
and even the most righteous news-
papers fed the public appetite for
sex and sensation.
Mr. Pearl has gathered his evidence
from a wide range of reading. He
is particularly interesting in his quota-
tions from letters, court-reports and
editorials from that scandalous old
newspaper “The Times.” And, at all
times sounding a gallant trumpet-blast
against hypocrisy, he presents some of
his material both wittily and gracefully
. . . particularly when he comes to
those fashionable “hetairae,” “anony-
mas” or “horsebreakers” who, queening
it in Hyde Park or the Champs Elysees,
were, with the minor difference that
they dispensed with the formality of
marriage every six months or so, the
Victorian equivalent of the Hollywood
film-star.
More Barrier Reef
The odd thing aoout most adventure-
novels for grown-ups is how very
closely they resemble adventure-books
for boys; and how, essentially, one is
to distinguish Morris L. West’s Gal-
lows on the Sand (Angus and Robert-
son), written for adults, from say, Leslie
Rees’s “Quokka Island,” written
frankly for boys, is a critical problem
of the first magnitude.
The job, really, was done once and
for all by Stevenson in “Treasure
Island” and all latter-day adventurers
must follow basically the same pattern:
the hidden treasure, the goodies and the
baddies —with, of course, the baddies
foiled at the end. Mr. Rees, if one
remembers rightly, threw them over a
cliff; Mr. West blows them up very
prettily with limpet-mines.
Still, himself incurably boyish at
heart —aged, possibly, 10^-—ever ardent
to discover any variations on the im-
memorial patterns of successful fiction
and not yet completely satiated with
manta-rays, sharks, gropers, stone-
fish and the delectable coral-gardens of
the Barrier Reef (though getting peri-
lously near it) this reviewer enjoyed
“Gallows on the Sand” very much
indeed, as its goodies from Sydney Uni-
versity plunged into the depths to
search for the Spanish treasure-ship
wrecked centuries ago on the Reef,
while the baddies buzzed at them with
aeroplanes, shot them up with machine-
guns, offensively smoked cigars, etc.
Mr. West’s mechanism creaks a bit
at times: it is so obvious, after a cer-
tain point, that the treasure must be
hidden in the billygoat’s cave—as
indeed, guarded by skeletons who have
been stabbing each other right and
left, it is—that there is no point in
going on groping in the dark, manta-
ray-haunted recesses of the Donna
Lucia. But his hero, on the other hand,
though a little inclined that way, is
not too much the sour tough-guy of
all post-Hemingway adventure-stories;
his heroine is charming and described
at once attractively and with good taste;
his action swift; his writing crisp and
colorful; his scenery convincing; and
his villain from the baccarat-school at
Vaucluse just the sort of villain one has
always hoped to find in that enchanting
underworld of Sydney.
But ultimately, when one escapes
from the spell of all this estimable
derring-do, it is the villain and his
underworld who are by far Mr. West’s
most interesting creations. Ranging
out to Camden and throwing-in a day
at Randwick for good measure, but
chiefly centred on King’s Cross and
those harborside suburbs whose veneer
of respectability covers so much curious
night-life, Mr. West seems to know his
contemporary Sydney exceptionally
well. He should tell us more about it.
It is fresh territory, and the adven-
tures it offers are adult.
VARIOUS VERSE
THE PASSIONATE POET AND
THE MOON
His candle’s steady flame burned on
At elbow all the darkness through
And still he strove to celebrate
(Devising first the lyric forms)
The huntress moon, her beauty, till
Scant light surprised the neighboring hill.
Thus the first poet- —there he sat
And every night his ardor burned
Companion to his candle flame,
And every night the patient words
In flocks were driven by his rage
To the pale pastures of the page.
The fickle moon who, climbing, watched
His nightly vigil with his verse
When all the world was lost in dream,
Named him her shepherd, and amused
With this conceit, went climbing on
To tell it to Endymion . . .
Some say his death was destined since
His ardor and his art were vain,
That unrequited passion kills,
That poets, anyway, die young.
I think the dreadful deed was done
By that usurped Endymion.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
GRACE BEFORE MEAT
Life is in the rice-field, wealth in the
wheat—
pray that our children continue to have
meat',
know best their needs and take what they
require:
food of the stronger of body and of desire.
While—true —there’s merit in the meal of
fruit or fish
as in piled potatoes and butter with the
dish,
sweetness in honey, stamina in cheese,
meat has other virtue, a far thing from
these.
This is not of nurture. Appetite was
meant
less to fill hunger than to kill content.
Not the pinched belly nor the spread girth
but the hand reaching climbs above earth.
Milk’s a sounder diet than the bled beast.
Men eat unwisely; there’s famine at the
feast;
yet the mouth’s greed mirrors that behind
star-devouring fever and foraging of mind.
Never to be despised are the tillers of
the plain
laboring tireless on a handful of grain;
but what wiry millions have overrun their
soil,
eyes fixed on cattle, the best part of spoil.
Those too who built, where dawns of time
strike,
Parthenon and Pyramid on onions and the
like,
all had behind them the ganger with the
lash,
craftsmen and designers, feeders upon
flesh.
Beggars’ fare may bring you that peace
in the soul
too akin to nothingness for men born
whole.
Let the pilgrim seek it on his thin shanks.
Spare him his morsel and yourself give
thanks.
Chopsticks and tin plate—never come at
that,
fingers in the common bowl, cross-legged
on the mat.
Though men are brothers and all share
the meal
your share is eaten with fork and bright
steel.
Abel was the hunter and keeper of the
herd,
gentle with his great hands, friend of
beast and bird,
lover of the game he killed for the flesh
and hides,
given man for man’s use like all else
besides.
Generous and trustine ... so he came,
one
clean as his sacrifice, straight from air
and sun. *
Cain the vegetarian had dark thoughts in
his head:
envy and evil of the ill-fed.
All the world’s goodness is theirs who
most live;
strong hands taking it are warm hands
to give.
Health is in the orchard, vision in the
vine:
be the masters of them your son and mine.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
THE GRAVES AT MILL POINT
Alf Watt is in his grave
these eighty years.
From his bones a bloodwood grows
with long leaves like tears.
His girl grew weary long ago;
she’s long lost the pain
of crying to the empty air
to hold her boy again.
When he died the town died.
Nothing’s left ;ow
but the wind in the bloodwoods.
“Where did they go?
“In the rain beside the graves
I heard their tears say
‘This is where the world ends;
the world ends today.’
"Where have they gone to?
I can’t hear or see.
Tell me of the world’s end,
you heavy bloodwood-tree.”
“There’s nothing but a butcher-bird
singing on my wrist,
and the long wave that rides the lake,
with rain upon its crest.
“There’s nothing but a wandering child
that stoops to your stone;
but time has washed the words away,
so that story’s done.”
Alf Watt is in his grave
lost beside the lake,
and over him a bloodwood-tree
that flowers for his sake.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Oymphna Cusack's New Play
Dymphpa Cusack’s The Golden
Girls (H. F. Deane Ltd., London), a
three-act play for the stage, is an essay
in the category of “Arsenic and Old
Lace,” “The Little Foxes” and “Ladies
in Retirement”: the corruption of
wealthy gentlefolk; dotty old ladies
committing murder.
It opens with a corpse on stage and
looks like the start of a detective-play;
but then it switches back to tell who
the body is, and why. It is Angelica
Prendergast, a woman of a wealthy
Sydney family, who, in her youth, has
had her lover dismissed by her dominat-
ing father.
Thereafter, falling in love with an
Italian portrait-painter, she tries to pre-
vent, by telling tales to Papa, her sister’s
elopement with this gentleman. She
loses yet another suitor, an English
aristocrat chosen for her by Papa, when
he turns out to be married already.
Then, in a rage, she smacks Papa’s
face till he dies of apoplexy. And then,
assuming Papa’s mantle as head of the
family, and dedicating herself to carry-
ing out what she thinks would have
been his wishes, she proceeds to dom-
inate the lives of her two younger
sisters. She shoots the coachman when
he tries to elope with one of them;
and in the end she has them worn down
to two cowering, semi-imbecile old
ladies who are very glad to take revenge
on her by starving her to death when
she falls ill: whereupon there is a final
suggestion that the two dear old ducks
will live happily ever after.
Miss Cusack seems uncertain in this
field of morbid psychology. Her Aus-
tralian setting is vague and indefinite;
the father a mere caricature, so neutral
in his language that one can never
make out whether he is meant to be
genuine English blue-blood expatriated
to Australia or a self-made man from
the goldfields. If the wicked Angelica
is meant to have developed a father-
complex, subconsciously in love with
the dominant male who has destroyed
her life, this is never cleverly shown —
as it was shown so very clearly, long
before Freud, in Balzac’s “Eugenie
Grandet” —and consequently there
seems no reason why, having killed the
old gentleman, she should dedicate the
rest of her life to worshipping his mem-
ory and imitating his tyranny. Nor
does it seem likely that the two lively
younger sisters, as they are portrayed,
would so readily fall under her dom-
inance.
The only thing that would have made
the plot plausible would be to have
shown the whole family dotty from the
start; and even this would not explain
how Angelica manages to deceive the
police after she has murdered the
coachman —a problem never touched-
on and hardly to be solved by the
simple lie that is implied.
However, there is much charm in the
portrayal of the younger sisters both in
youth and old-age; and this, with the
dimly Australian setting and th§ engag-
ing melodrama of the plot, should make
the play worth considering by little-
theatres.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SHOW PAVILION
Don’t forget to visit Anthony Horderns’ pavilion at the Show this year. We’ve a magnificent display of merchandise from
our huge store furniture and furnishings, electrical appliances, carpets, even power tools for the handyman.
And just opposite, for the man on the land, there’s a special display of the newest agricultural equipment.
..y l //*;
f. / L<* :
jWir utwa<W.V^Viw^.
...^
f.'M
.-"A*:-*
i ’
V, >.
l ' £
y 4 /
<»
.«
sSSS&s* 88 * 1
sssssw'
'v
V
X
X
X
X
-
SSS
m
/
ss
m
s ; -?:
s*. -» >
m
VL-
'»SSs>
m
ft
m
m
:
>■
X
sw
sJX
;c-sx «.
4
: r
*2
&J*
/•
tm.
V.
X ■
. ...
,4"
SMI
?X
mi
v
s Wsf :
■;■
«v XV
X
fxW
WH
m
s'
&
//
f' /
//
m
,s
<4*f &k* r >** y '
<A\ X .XX' 'SssisSsSSSS* '
& %\ X ,/■
,«% ik /
<X|\
wv**"
Don 9 t miss seeing these attractions tor 1936
New Television Furniture
Everywhere you'll see new colours, styles; new ideas. We’ve fully funv
ished rooms, including one devoted to the latest television furniture,
and there’s also a selection of beautiful exclusive period pieces and
furnishings. And don’t miss the Hordura “Dunlopillo” bedding display.
Largest Display of Power Tools
This year we’ve the largest range of portable electric tools that s
ever been displayed at the Showground! See, too, the wonderful combina*
tion woodworking machines that save you pounds and double production.
Lawnmowers Continually Demonstrated
On the lawn opposite the pavilion you’ll find the finest range of lawn'
mowers actually being demonstrated on the grass. See the Windowlite
bush house, fountains and other garden accessories; agricultural imple*
ments, air compressors, working pumps, outboard motors, and boats.
Watch Demonstrations of Sunbeam’s New “Fry-Pan”
In the pavilion there are interesting demonstrations of all Sunbeam
appliances, including their wonderful new “Fry'Pan”; Westinghouse and
Moffat'Virtue household helps. There s also a full range of heating
. appliances on display.
See Washing Machines , Sewing Machines , Vacuum Cleaners
We’ll have a full range of washing, dishwashing, and drying machines at
the pavilion for you to inspect and compare. There, too, you’ll see a
wonderful array of famous ftame vacuum cleaners, sewing machines and
knitting machines.
Kelvinator’s New Automatic “Magic Cycle” Defrost
Come ahd we’ll show you Kelvinator’s revolutionary “Magic Cycle” fully
automatic defrosting in their gleaming new refrigerators. With “Magic
Cycle” you have nothing to do, to turn on or off, for the refrigerator
defrosts itself.
*
And while you’re in the city, don’t forget we’ll
do your dry cleaning, repair anything, test your
eyes, put a writing room at your disposal, mind
your parcels, even serve a delicious breakfast.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3972
Wednesday, March 28, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Co'llins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
ODD MAN OUT
TIME was when the almost universal condemnation
by the daily press and the Parliamentary Opposi-
tion would have crippled any Government, but
judging by the events of the past week or so both the
press and the Opposition have lost most of their
influence.
Despite propaganda, the sharemarket showed
little adverse reaction to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s instalment of anti-inflation measures,
even though a section of the Sydney press seemed
to be deliberately trying to create panic. The
official contribution of the Leader of the Federal
Opposition was received with bewilderment and
boredom. His warnings were so typical of those he
has given in the past and which have proved to
have no substance that they had no impact.
The only argument which Dr. Evatt seemed to
think cogent was the theme that ran throughout his
speech as through all his speeches—that anything
put forward by a non-“ Labor” Government must
be bad, dangerous and deliberately framed in the
interests of the profiteer and in direct enmity to the
worker whom Mr. Menzies and his colleagues are
supposed to hate with an undying hate.
These kinds of submission are, of course, nor-
mal to Communist advocacy which can see nothing
good in anything but Socialism, but put forward by
an eminent jurist, in receipt of a Parliamentary
salary, they are fantastic.
It has been a stock argument of “Labor” that
the rich can be soaked by Governments without the
burden of the soaking falling on the worker.
Indeed, “Labor” theory has always seemed to
recognise two separate economies, one for the profit-
earner and one for the provider of the profits
through “exploitation” ; but it appears from his
speech that Dr. Evatt has a foot in both worlds;
indeed, in the other worlds as well, for at intervals
during his utterance he produced evidence that he
has spent a good deal of his time in some sphere
where there has been no recent apprehension of
the facts of economic life.
The basic creed of Dr. Evatt, as shown by his
speech, it that all profits are bad, but that some
profits are worse than others, according to whether
they are earned by Dr. Evatt’s friends or opponents,
and according to whether he has Socialist designs on
the earnings. Behind that is the admission, so much
at cross-purposes with “Labor” theory as set out in
the platform, that rises in costs to the employer must
ultimately fall on the shoulders of the wage-earner.
He is perfectly convinced that the ls.-in-the-£ addi-
tion to the company-tax must ultimately come home
to roost on the shoulders of the workers, the small
men. But a tax on “excess” profits—the Doctor
advocated in his policy-speech at the recent election
a surtax on profits over £25,000, irrespective of the
capital involved in earning it —would not be infla-
tionary and would not be flung back on the little
man to carry. Dr. Evatt is all against letting profits
reach the incentive stage, as are the Communists,
because incentive is the bar to Communism and the
stimulus to private capital investment.
All this is not more bewildering than Dr.
Evatt’s attitude on hire-purchase. He is in favor
of this facility for the people who bear the burden
of profits —“the ordinary people . . . not endowed
with sufficient purchasing-power,” whose power to
buy things Mr. Menzies is trying to cut.
Dr. Evatt and his party favor hire-purchase be-
cause it “does provide consumer-credit for the
average Australian” and “enables him to obtain
goods on satisfactory terms.”
The peculiarity is not in this, for it is a truth
generally admitted, but in the learned Doctor’s
attitude to the people who finance these terms in
contrast to his attitude to private trading-banks.
He admits that interest-rates on hire-purchase are
“much higher to the consumer than the consumer
realises,” but this did not seem to move him to the
same antipathy for the h.-p. companies that he feels
for the private banks and the Government.
Indeed, he feels that “if finance coming from
the private banking-system to the acceptance-cor-
porations was lowered, the consumer would get his
goods at a lower rate.”
It is obvious from his speech that the private
banks are the villains of the piece, who have bull-
dozed a Government into raising interest to swell
their profits. He would still destroy them if he
could. But there is no word about the destruction
of the h.-p. companies, which are purely middlemen
—a class for the immolation of which “Labor” has
always stood.
He has a perfect confidence in their good faith,
and believes that if the machinations of the wicked
banks could be countered the h.-p. people would
certainly not profiteer like other wicked people he
could name.
He thinks that, contrary to the opinion of such
authorities as the U.S. Treasury and Reserve Bank,
the British Exchequer and the Bank of England and
the Commonwealth Bank (whose present governor
had the status of a major prophet when “Labor”
was in power), the way to counter inflation is to
reduce interest-rates and swell the flood of consumer-
buying.
It was presumably with a view to dealing some-
how with the banks that he proposed in rather
ambiguous terms that the Government should ask
the States for power to deal with time-payment
interests and, if the States do not agree, that a
Constitutional referendum should be taken to get
the power.
Mr. Cahill and his cohorts will scarcely thank
/Dr. Evatt for the suggestion. If they had any
intention of interfering with the position they would
have rushed to do so long ago, with the especial
view of discrediting the Menzies Government and
stealing its thunder. But they have shown them-
selves blind, deaf and dumb to all suggestions that
they might take a hand in the matter, whereas, if
Dr. Evatt can be trusted as an authority—as Federal
leader of the party he should be—it must now be
“Labor” policy that that something needs doing to
the hire-purchase business, and that the Menzies
Government should immediately be given power to
do it. This seems a remarkable admission from a
leader who believes that everything the Menzies
Government does is wrong. But perhaps he means
that he is willing to allow the Government to have
the power so long as he is allowed to dictate its
policy.
In any case, the Government should take
immediate advantage of this expression of view-
point. It should ask the State Governments to
surrender the powers which are hampering the
Commonwealth in dealing with inflation and finan-
cial problems in general and call on Dr. Evatt to
give backing to the request or to an amendment of
the Constitution, since he obviously approves the
principle at least.
It is no wonder, in the face of the nature of
Dr. Evatt’s anti-inflation plan, that even his own
party showed little enthusiasm for it, outside a few
backyard economists like Mr. Dan Curtin and Mr.
Leslie Haylen. Everything he said was contrary to
commonsense and to the established axioms accented
by the financial world at large save perhaps among
the members of the Douglas Credit movement,
which Dr. Evatt lavishly praised some time ago.
And most of his basic arguments also ran
contrary to “Labor” theory.
The House They Won't Blow Down
EVER since the Menzies Government came to
power in 1949 with a substantial majority in the
House of Representatives but without a majority in
the Upper House, the question of Senate-reform has
been tossed about by politicians and publicists with
shades of enthusiasm varying with the political
situation.
In the deadlock period 1949-51, Government
parties and supporters were strong for reform, while
“Labor,” sitting on the box-seat in the Senate, pre-
ferred to forget that its platform included abolition
of the Senate. Government action got as far as
introducing a queer crossword-puzzle measure pon-
derously named the Constitutional Alteration
(Avoidance of Double-dissolution Deadlocks) Bill,
but the “Labor”-controlled Senate succeeded in
shelving it.
After the Double-dissolution Election had given
the Government an effective majority in both
Houses, its enthusiasm for Senate-reform seemed to
wane, to revive only last year when it became likely
that it would again lose control of the Senate after
next June. “Labor” in the meantime has main-
tained a passive attitude, and has not attempted to
press for a change. At the moment the Government
proposes an all-party conference on the subject.
Conflict between Upper and Lower Houses is
not peculiar to the Federal Parliament; the problem
arises in State Parliaments also, and has been a
bone of contention for Constitutionalists since be-
fore Federation. Abolition of the Upper House is
on the platform of State “Labor” as well as Federal,
but only in Queensland has the policy been, put into
practice. In four of the States the party has
never held a majority in the Legislative Council, so
it can plead that it has never had the opportunity
of abolishing that Chamber. That argument would
be more convincing if attempts had been consis-
tently made to pass abolition-bills through the
Houses of Assembly, thus putting on the Councils
the onus of saving themselves from extinction.
But N. S. Wales “Labor” cannot raise this face-
saving excuse; for nearly eight years it has had a
majority in both Houses.
In N. S. Wales, as in Canberra, the attitudes of
parties on this subject tend to change with changing
years. The present system of choosing the Legisla-
tive Council was introduced by the Stevens Govern-
ment —U.A.P., and forerunner of the Liberal party.
Under it the anti-“ Labor” parties had a majority in
the Council for 14 years, during all of which time
“Labor” fulminated against the system and
muttered threats as to what it would do if and when
it got the chance.
In 1943, two years after it took office under
McKell, a bill was introduced to have the Council
elected by popular vote. For this purpose the 90
Assembly electorates were to be sorted-out into 30
Council electorates. The Opposition majority in
the Council rejected the bill, claiming that the pro-
vision which left the grouping of the electorates in
the hands of the Government opened the door to
gerrymandering. In 1946 an Abolition Bill was
also thrown out by the Council.
These moves were made at a time when
“Labor” did not control the Upper House. In the
light of subsequent events it seems that they were
merely an exhibition of shadow-sparring. “Labor”
gained control of the Council in 1948, but has
since made no attempt to abolish or reform it. A
private bill for abolition, placed on the notice-
paper by J. L. Geraghty after his expulsion from the
party, was never allowed to come up for discussion.
Still, the opportunity was by no means neglected.
Favored sons and union-officials were wangled into
the 12-year club, and payment of members was
introduced —an “allowance” of £3OO a year, later
increased do £5OO. Now it is the Liberal party that
is proposing reform; in his policy-speech Opposition-
leader Morton advocated a referendum to amend
the Constitution to provide for a Council elected by
popular vote. “Labor” made no reply to this on the
hustings, and has made none since.
The chief function of a Legislative Council is to
act as a House of review. Down till the time
“Labor” gained control in 1948 the NjS. Wales
Legislative Council could still claim to be that.
Under the U.A.P. regime, although its members
were preponderantly Government supporters, it
never became a mere echo of the Assembly. Bills
were frequently amended in the Council. A Liberal
party research-paper recalls that in one session dur-
ing that period the Government was defeated 14
times in the Upper House. That sort of thing has
never happened since “Labor” achieved a majority
in the Council. There’s not a “Labor” appointee
in the Council who cannot place his hand upon his
heart and repeat the words of Sir Joseph Porter,
“I always voted at my party’s call and never thought
of thinking for myself at all.”
No wonder! That is what they were elected
for and that is what they’ve done. With a few
exceptions, they make little or no contribution to
debate. Ministers Downing and Maloney, who
shepherd bills through the House, do most of the
talking on the Government side. The research-
paper quoted found that in the fourth session of the
last Parliament, apart from the two Ministers, only
four “Labor” M.L.C.s (out of 33) spoke on five or
more occasions. Twelve spoke only once and 13
not at all. Of the 18 members who averaged fewer
than two speeches a year in the period 1950-55, all
but three were “Labor” men. The most silent
member is J. J. Graves, who has been in the Council
since 1931 and hasn’t spoken since December 15,
1932! Runner-up is C. Hackett, who has been a
member for over 12 years and has never made a
speech.
On the non-“ Labor” side only T. G. Murray
comes within cooee of this pair. His last speech was
made eight years ago. His silence (which is con-
fined to the Legislative Council, and isn’t noticeable
elsewhere) is matched by his record of absenteeism;
he was present on only six of the 54 sitting-days of
1954-55. That can’t be said of Graves and Hackett;
they seldom missed a day—their vote was always
in the count.
The Liberal party’s concern for reform of the
system their predecessors devised is understandable.
On the present basis “Labor’s” control of the Coun-
cil stretches far ahead into the future. Casual
vacancies are filled by the vote of the two
so that every death or resignation of a non-“ Labor”
M.L.C. means a gain of one member to “Labor.”
The triennial election of a quarter of the Council
is conducted in the same way, but with proportional-
representation. Voting is by secret ballot, but the
secrecy is somewhat qualified as far as “Labor
members are concerned. Four who didn’t vote the
ticket lost their endorsement in 1950. This system
gave “Labor” 9 of the 15 vacancies at the last
triennial election ; Opposition gains at the Assembly
election may reduce the proportion to 8-7 next
time. As “Labor” already holds a 36-24 majority
in the Council, it will be seen that even if the
Opposition gained control of the Assembly it would
have to face the prospect of years and years of a
hostile Upper House.
“Labor” reluctance to do anything to imple-
ment the party’s policy by abolishing the Council
is also understandable. It may also be unethical
and a betrayal of principle, but since when have the
Cahills worried about ethics or principle?


“BAA! BAA! BLACK SHEEP!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Fall of an Idol
While Georgi Malenkov, Stalin’s former
right-hand man, is displaying his haircut
and his avoirdupois in England, telling
the innocent denizens of that island that
the Iron Curtain is down, strange events
are centring round his native land.
First, there was Comrade Khrushchev’s
speech to the Security Session of the Com-
munist Party Congress on February 25,
the day the congress ended. It was a
long speech, finishing at 4.30 a.m., and
the extent to which the Iron Curtain is
down is shown by the fact that its text
was denied to foreign correspondents and
its details didn’t leak to the West till
March 17, when most newspapers, in
Australia at any rate, reported only small
snippets of it, though it was one of the
most important speeches made in Russia
for years.
Khrushchev made no bones about his
late comrade and chief. He pictured his
reign as one of “suspicion, fear and
terror.” He is reported to have said that
Stalin decimated the Communist party
during the terror of 1936-38 —in other
words, immolated 300,000 of its members,
while 5000 of the Red Army’s best
officers were murdered following the
execution for treason of Marshal
Tuchachevsky, commander-in-chief.
In 1936, while the gentleman whom the
Australian Communist Party was describ-
ing as the “greatest, the most humane,
the most revered world-leader, our in-
spiration, Comrade Stalin,” was holiday-
ing in the Crimea with his offsider
Zhdanov (who later died suddenly of a
heart-attack in the prime of his middle-
age), he sent a telegram to Molotov,
Malenkov and others ordering the re-
moval of Yaghoda, chief of the
N.K.V.D., and began the purges (which
included Yaghoda) with a further message
ordering his lieutenants to “physically
annihilate” the opposition.
Khrushchev declared that Stalin him-
self had been implicated in the murder
of Kirov, whose assassination was the
pretext for the purge.
He refused to believe Churchill’s warn-
ings that Hitler was about to invade
Russia, even when his own man in Ber-
lin foretold the exact date. Hitler was
his friend in whom he had implicit trust.
When the Germans reached Moscow
Stalin fled —which is a very different tale
to the legend propagated by the Com-
munist party throughout the world that
the defence of Moscow was due to the
heroism of the Great Man in person.
Khrushchev declared that the reign of
terror under Stalin was so intense that
even members of the Polit-Bureau
trembled when summoned to his presence
and Bulganin once told him, when called
to Stalin’s dacha, that he didn’t know
whether he was going to a party or his
execution. The dictator shouted people
down, bullied them into silence, and in
his later years seems to have become
something like Nero. He refused to allow
Marshal Voroshilov, a national hero, to
take part in the work of the Polit-Bureau
because he considered him a British spy/
He placed Molotov, Foreign Minister,
under house-arrest and put Vyshinsky,
his chief purge-master, in his place for a
time. Mrs. Molotov was under arrest
for months.
His was the hand behind the “doctors”
assassination-plot just before he died.
He planned about that time to get rid
of Khrushchev and Molotov, and he once
made Khrushchev, at a public reception,
dance a dance most undignified for a
fat man in the presence of delighted spec-
tators. He had a garden full of busts of
himself, and his favorite film was called
“Unforgettable 1919,” and depicted him-
self brandishing a sword as bullets
whistled by—the military critics of the
peahen press must have seen that one.
He edited his own biography, inserting
here and there phrases like “shy and
modest person,” the “workers’ genius-
leader.” And he was “violently, fanatic-
ally nationalist” and “anti-Semitic,” a
blow to those Jews in Australia who
subscribed to Communist funds (as was
proved before the Victorian Royal Com-
mission on Communism) because they be-
lieved that he was the all-highest friend
of Israel.
Altogether Stalin—the Stalin with
whom Franklin D. Roosevelt sided at
Yalta, in opposition to Churchill, and in-
sisted on giving him about half the world
—seems to have been a thoroughly bad
hat, if Khrushchev can be believed,
though everything Khrushchev said is not
necessarily a fact. He himself is a pretty
bad hat. He, JSlolotov, Malenkov and
all their comrades at the top were parties
to everything—murder, international be-
trayal, association with Hitler, the rape
of little countries, military aggression and
world revolutionary plots—of which
Stalin was guilty. And they are still in
office. and maintaining his '’programme
and his methods.
Accompanying the revelations of the
Communist-party conference are events
from which attention is being distracted
but which" are of great interest to the
world at large, and about which little in-
formation is being conveyed by the
Western press.
All round is glad-handing from Mos-
cow, but glad-handing with a difference.
Comrade Malenkov has been wandering,
sometimes smiling, but, when the mail
comes in from Moscow, gloomy. His
visit, however, has been accompanied by
a salute in Siberia from one of the
biggest hydrogen-bombs yet dropped—a
starting-gun for the visit of Khrushchev
and Bulganin to London next month. He
cannot be the happier for the unheralded
appearance in London of the bloodstained
Security Chief Serov, who may be there
to see that he gets home.
There are Comrades who visited
Moscow who had reason to be even less
happy than he and who have been learn-
ing how unhealthy the Moscow climate
can be, and how susceptible unpopular
people there have become, since crude
assassination went out as a technique
and heart-failures carried off Dmitrov
and the lusty Zhdanov. After appearing
well and hearty at the conference, for
instance, Rierut, who betrayed Poland
to Russia and was de facto head of the
Polish State, suddenly clutched his heart
in Moscow and died. When Ulbricht,
who holds the position analogous to
Khrushchev’s in East Germany, returned
home he failed to attend functions —not
even Bierut’s funeral, though every one
of his opposite-numbers, including
Khrushchev, went —and it is announced
that he had a heart-attack, but he re-
covered and made a fierce attack on
Stalin.
If the Cahills Had Built Rome
During the New South Wales election-
campaign many charges of incompetence
and extravagance were levelled against
the Cahill Government. All were
indignantly dismissed by the Premier as
being utterly without foundation: propa-
ganda put out by the enemies of “Labor”
for the purpose of discrediting his Gov-
ernment. Naturally, most of the allega-
tions were made by the opponents of
“Labor,” but that didn’t necessarily
make them untrue, any more than the
flattering applause of Cahill’s friends
proved the truth of his claim to have
given N.S.W. sound and stable govern-
ment. The easygoing electors of N.S.W.
were not unduly impressed by Cahill’s
claims and protestations, but by a small
majority they decided to give him the
benefit of the doubt.
There must be something contagious
about this doubt; some of it seems to
have affected Cahill himself since the
election. His first action after caucus
had chosen him a new Cabinet —with one
exception the same old one —was to have
a general change-round of portfolios.
Usually when a Minister is relieved of
his portfolio there is an implication that
he has fallen down on the job. Even
where two Ministers are switched about
it is commonsense to assume that the
intention is to place the abler man in
the more exacting post. But the Cahill
changes were so comprehensive that it is
next to impossible to say who has been
promoted and who demoted.
The Premier’s heart-to-heart talk to
his team last week contained the impli-
cation that most of them had fallen down
on their old jobs, but were expected to
do better at their new ones. Gone was
the suggestion that all criticism was enemy
propaganda. In their new posts the
Ministers were told not to ignore criti-
cism, but to examine it closely ; stand up
to it and, if necessary, answer it. All
were told to get down to hard work,
“hold conferences with the departmental
officers and tell them how the Govern-
ment’s policy is to be carried out.”
The charge of extravagance, which was
“propaganda” a few weeks ago, is also to
be met. Ministers have been told to
make all possible economies in order to
enable the Government to meet its
financial difficulties.
The public mustn’t expect too much
from this remodelled Government;
Cahill himself has admitted that “we
cannot do everything overnight.” By
that slight understatement he meant that
Rome wasn’t built in a day—a state-
ment which has never been seriously dis-
puted. If the Cahills had had the responsi-
bility of erecting the city it wouldn’t have
been built yet, but the materials for the
job would have been distributed in small
heaps throughout every electorate in
Italy.
Guests of the Unspeakable
The muddled state of public opinion and
the advantages which the Communists
enjoy over their enemies is illustrated
by the newest arrangements for a junket
by Australians to Peking.
Communist China is not recognised by
Australia or by the United Nations,
which still acknowledges and supports the
Chiang Kai-shek Government. It has a
programme of conquest plainly stated in
a plan exposed in 1953 for the creation
of a vast army to dominate South-East
Asia and the Pacific after successful
aggressions between then and 1960 have
taken over the area.
It is now intriguing to drag Indo-China
into the Communist bloc. It backed the
invasion of South Korea, and/ when the
North Koreans found themselves de-
feated, provided a large army to retrieve
the defeat. Numbers of Australians were
killed by Chinese bullets. Communist
China is still at war with the United
Nations, Australia included, though there
has been an armistice for three years.
Communist China, with Russia, is the
block to peace in Korea.
It is also at war through its agents in
Malaya, where Australian troops are
stationed to hold back the drive. It
has been guilty of purges and atrocities as
bloody and abominable as those of
Russia.
It has broadcast throughout the
world propaganda accusing our Ameri-
can allies of germ-warfare and atrocities
of the vilest kind against women and chil-
dren—charges supported by obviously
faked evidence aimed to deceive Asiatic
coolies and parlor-Pinks.
To further its propaganda. Communist
China has recently been inviting Austra-
lians to visit it. Not freely. Any Aus-
tralian who wished to get a passport to
Communist China would meet with a flat
refusal. The visitors must come at the
expense of the Chinese Government. •
But the newly invited Australian guests
should insist on one formality outside the
routine of their conducted tour. A daily
two minutes’ silence for the dead and the
bereaved of Korea, and in memory of
Australians who gave their lives in Malaya
and elsewhere to hold back the savage
advance of the present unscrupulous
hosts/should be de rigueur.
Deflated Balloon
“In the ACT”: There have been signs
in recent weeks of the Opposition at Can-
berra becoming more coherent and
effective. It has felt the Government to
be at a disadvantage in - the present
economic difficulty, and has pressed its
attack more strongly than for years.
Observers considered that if it could
present a reasoned and well-planned case
on the economic measures, even if many
of its arguments were fallacious, its stocks
would rise still more.
Anyone who hoped to see such a result
must have been bitterly disappointed
when Dr. Evatt spoke in the Representa-
tives before a crowded gallery. Even
when he had some points which could
have been telling if well presented (and
there were one or two) he failed to give
them either adequate explanation or suit-
able emphasis. After twenty minutes or
so he had completely exhausted his am-
munition in the hotch-potch of pencilled
notes and typed pages which he had
carried to the table, but he was des-
perately determined to talk for an hour
so that no one could claim that his case
was thinner than the Prime Minister’s.
Even the claque on the front Opposi-
tion-bench behind him, to whom he
turned in near-desperation several times,
found it hard to give him even the en-
couragement of a “Hear, hear.” It was
a performance which, as Harold Holt,
who followed, said, would let the electors
see and hear what sort of a party and
what sort of a policy they might have
suffered if they had returned “Labor” to
office.
The one firm economic fact which the
Doc. offered was an estimate made by the
tame economist representing Melbourne
Ports that as a result of the rise in interest-
rates the banks would make additional
profit to the tune of £H million a year.
This was flatly denied by Menzies
the following day. The Prime Minister
made it clear that the banks would not be
allowed to make profits from the per-
mitted rise, and added that they did not
desire to do so. Otherwise, the Oppo-
sition had nothing constructive to offer,
and only the most half-baked kind of
criticism of even those Government mea-
sures which are really causing some con-
cern in the community.
There was no reference, of course, to
the Government’s reluctance to deal with
the inflated and enormously expensive
public service. “Labor” is wedded to
bigger and better bureaucracy, and
therefore is unable to raise one issue on
which it would have the support of most
of the three-quarters of the electors who
are not public servants themselves. It
did not even propose that, to give newly-
burdened companies a greater incentive
to produce and to lower costs, the depre-
ciation-allowances recently recommended
should be permitted.
These omissions illustrate the paucity
of “Labor’s” economic equipment, the
poor calibre of its thinking, and its com-
plete failure still to organise itself into
something like a critical but constructive
Opposition. It can never regain any
appeal while its tactics are so poor and
its performance so mediocre. If is still
bereft of policy and direction, and the
glimmer of spirit which showed a few
weeks ago is now quenched. When, if
ever, is it going to make a real attempt
to lift itself out of the mire in which it’s
bogged down?
Coal and the Communists
The visit of a deputation of colliery em-
ployees to Canberra to beard Senator
Spooner and Mr. Holt in - Parliament
House is typical of trade-union tactics
in N. S. Wales.
Though the deputation, complete with
banjos, ukuleles and lunches which they
seem to have been allowed to eat in the
dignified surroundings of the King’s Hall,
was nominally led by King and Kenny,
executive heads of the N.S.W. Trades
and Labor Council, the real leader was
Comrade Parkinson, a member of the
Central Committee of the Communist
party and president of the
Federation.
. The deputation arose from the wilting
condition of the N.S.W. coal-industry
and was designed to publicise the mine
employees’ “remedies.” The trip involved
shutting : down the northern coalfields,
causing a combined loss in wages and
production of about £300,000. And the
expedients which it had to present to the
Ministers were typical of those which are
put forward by the Communist party.
First, they are anxious to have the Com-
monwealth abandon its control of coal
so that they will have the pliant Mr.
Cahill to deal with. Him they are hoping
to persuade to nationalise the industry,
thus enabling the unions to take control
of it. Then they want a salutary tax
on competitive, oil and some vague
modernisation of the kind they have
always hitherto opposed, because oil and
atomic developments bid fair to put coal
(at present costs of mining) right out of
the picture.
These events follow the closing of the
Bellbird Colliery on February 10 be-
cause the owners were suffering such
heavy losses that they couldn’t catfy on
further. They have been paying far above
award rates like some other collieries and
getting far below the award returns in
production.
The miners’ contribution to the solu-
tion of the problem was to order a State-
wide campaign of one-day protest-strikes,
to agitate with the local council for
nationalisation of Hetton-Bellbird col-
lieries, and to propose that, with a view to
dealing with unemployment (it being com-
pletely out of the question for any coal-
workers to transfer to other industries in
which they can get jobs in ten minutes),
3000 should be sent on long-service
leave at the industry’s expense.
Bellbird, according to a report by the
Joint Coal Board, has been worked under
great physical disabilities, partly through
accidents and bad working in % the past,
partly through the floods last year. Bell-
bird has some of the best gas-coal in
the State, but industrial relationships
have been “deplorable and the mine has
the worst history on the whole Cessnock
field for petty stoppages, and there is
constant bickering between management
and men.” The Joint Coal Board, of
course, and the company could take the
easy way by agreeing to give in to the
continual demand for “inequitable finan-
cial inducements” to work and pass the
cost on to the consumer. This could be
done, as gas-coal is in demand when other
kinds are not. But both reject this as a
solution. The board devised a plan under
which it thought the mine would be
opened, but the Miners’ Federation re-
fuses to accept it. Its head would sooner
see 550 men go out of work and use the
fact as a pretext for Communist demon-
strations.
In the 13 months ended February 4,
1956, 1431 men were dismissed in north-
ern and western collieries in N.S.W., and
(< Continued, on next page)


1690 left the industry of their own
accord. The total employment in under-
ground mines fell by a net 963. Mean-
while diesel and electrification are making
great inroads everywhere. British Rail-
ways have plans for complete turnover
to diesel- and electric-power within 15
years, and the same trends as there are
obvious to alb in Australia, and will be
accelerated with the completion of the
Snowy River and other schemes.
Yet all the Communist leader of the
Miners’ Federation can think is to de-
mand more wages, more leave and more
disturbance and demands. Comrade
Parkinson recently complained that many
employees in the industry “up to 34
years old” had known only full employ-
ment and urged them to “more militancy”
—especially against the Federal Govern-
ment, which the Communists aim to oust
from association with coal-production.
The Federal Government is mildly par-
leying wilth them, even allowing them to
carry their intimidatory propaganda into
the precincts of Parliament House. A
little industrial backbone is badly needed
in Canberra —a good, stiff-backed Minis-
ter with the power to place the hard facts
of the situation before the industry, the
district and the electors in general.
POLITICAL POINTS
There’s been a reshuffle in the Cahill
Cabinet. What is really needed is a new
pack.
• •
N. S. Wales Country party still refuses
to walk into the Liberal-party’s parlor-
even though offered (in a sort of way)
the post of head fly.
• •
First place to hear about the increased
prices for liquor and cigarettes, Parlia-
ment House, Canberra, was probably the
last place to impose them. Increases
didn’t take effect until Monday—well after
members, homeward-bound for the Eastei
break, had stocked up on supplies.
• •
Early-closing had a resounding victory
in Victoria on Saturday. On Monday the
voting-figures were: 6-o’clock, 750,073 ;
10-o’clock, 485,444. One result is the im-
mediate demand by “temperance” inter-
ests in N. S. Wales for another referen-
dum in that State. It is natural that the
Victorian voting should revive the hopes
of the 6-o’clockers -that they could win
next time, but that is no argument for
saying that there is any obligation on the
N. S. Wales Government to hold another
poll so soon after the last one.
• •
The great mystery of Canberra, clos-
ing week before Easter, was the absence
of Sir Arthur Fadden, Federal Treasurer,
from the debate. The Prime Minister
took over the Treasurer’s function of an-
nouncing the new economic measures
and ijlolt was put up to answer Dr.
Evatt. Rumor has it that Fadden
may be in London in Tommy White’s
seat, though his choice or acceptance of
the position is scarcely • credible. His
departure would leave the C.P. in diffi-
culty about its leadership and the Gov-
ernment in a quandary about the C.P.-
vacancy in the Cabinet.
• •
P. J. Clarey has joined the Evatt,
Ward, Calwell prophets-of-ruin club.
He earned his membership with a fore-
cast that there’ll be between 75,000 and
150,000 unemployed in Australia by the
end of the year —caused, of course, by
the Menzies economic measures. His
estimate won’t be allowed to stand for
long ; the three original members of the
club will soon jump in with bigger and
wilder guesses.
• o
Suggestions that Canberra may
legislate to compel vendors to show
clearly in hire-purchase contracts the real
rate of interest being paid by buyers of
goods are given some weight by the Trea-
surer’s reply to a question. Sir Artie told
a “Labor” member that the effective
charge payable by an h.-p. buyer was
usually slightly less than double the flat
charge imposed by the h.-p. co. The flat
charge on the balance owing on a new
car after payment of the deposit, he said,
was usually per cent., which was an
effective charge of about 12 per cent.
For domestic appliances the “flat” charge
was often 9 or 10 per cent., which worked
out at between 16 and per cent. The
difference, however, was not all clear
profit; costs of administration and the
risk factor had to be taken into account.
Even so, it explains why some companies
can pay 7 per cent, and more for capital
and still show tidy profits.
• •
Atomic-energy experts in Britain and
America claim to have detected evidence
that the Soviet has recently exploded an-
other nuclear device. The reports should
be accepted with reserve. The dis-
turbance recorded may merely have been
chain-reactions from the exploding of the
Stalin legend.
• •
Techniques of under water-warf are
may be assisted by current research into
the physiological functions of physical
capabilities of whales, according, to Navy
Minister O’Sullivan. The Minister
pointed out that whales can sound to
500 fathoms and rise at once to the sur-
face, whereas divers going down more
than 150 ft. have to be brought up in
stages. Seems a pity Jonah can’t be
brought up for questioning.
Any Senators who appeared to look
shamefaced as they left Canberra last
Friday morning were probably thinking
of the fact that although their salaries
and allowances would continue unabated
they would not meet again until May 1.
• •
Comrade Sharkey and the Communist
“Tribune” have so far refused to admit
that Khrushchev and co. have been de-
bunking the Stalin myth. The reports,
according to Sharkey, have been pub-
lished by the capitalist press in order to
cover-up “the mighty advances the Soviet
Union will make during the next Five-
Year Plan.” Khrushchev, it appears, did
not say that Stalin was solely responsible
for the cult of the individual; “it was
merely presented as. a party mistake.”
Sharkey said that in the “Tribune,” Feb-
ruary 29. Since then the cables have had
Khrush. and other Soviet leaders con-
demning Stalin as a tyrant, a murderer
and a coward. To the “Tribune” this is
KHRUSHCHEV NOW CONCURS!
Published on April 23, 1941, as a “Postscript to the [ Sydney] Show ” of that
year, this Norman Lindsay cartoon showed Stalin as the “World’s Champion
Rat,” and was provoked by the signing of a non-aggression pact by Stalin and
Matsuoka of Japan, following an earlier deal between Hitler and Stalin
which preceded the rape of Poland. The cartoon created high feeling in
Australia at the time, but even Australian Communists, following Khrushchev s
lead may now be expected to agree with The Bulletin’s 15-year-old award.
still faked news, designed “to prevent a
repetition in Britain of the Bulganin-
Khrushchev triumph in Yugoslavia,
India, Burma and elsewhere.”
It looks as if some local apologies for
party-mistakes will be forthcoming
before long.
• •
“Stromlo”: One of the critics of
National Service, but not one who wants
to reduce or eliminate it, is Lieut. Reg.
Saunders, the first full-blood aborigine to
receive a commission. Saunders, a first-
rate Australian who fought in Greece,
Crete, New Guinea and Korea, was mak-
ing a career of Army, but has just
resigned because of dissatisfaction with
the poor training standards and. the ex-
cessive number of parties. He thinks, and
says, that trainees should have an initial
training period of six months, and should
do their training overseas, probably in
New Guinea. When they returned, he
says, they would be “real soldiers” and it
wouldn’t be necessary to train them any
more.
• •
“Wusslean”: Apologies are due to* the
Vic. Railways —the week after “an
unusual air-conditioned electric train,
with dining-car attached,” was put on the
recently electrified Gippsland line (B.
14/3/’56), the first of the long-awaited
modern suburban trains was let loose on
the Sandringham-Broadmeadows run.
It didn’t have air-conditioning or a dining-
car, but in appearance and fittings it was
miles ahead of current rolling-stock.
Within five days vandals had shown their
appreciation by wantonly slashing its up-
holstery. The commissioners wisely de-
cided to leave the damaged carriages in
service for a while to show passengers
how little some of their number appreci-
ated attempts to provide decent, trains.
• •
Westralia will have a referendum on
hotel-hours no matter which party wins
the election on April 7. If the Liberal-
Country-party team wins the electors
will be asked whether they want 10-o’clock
closing. If “Labor” wins there 11 also be
a referendum, but “the nature of the ques-
tions to be asked will be left to the dis-
cretion of members of the Parliamentary
Labor party.” Pubs now close at 9 p.m.
• •
The States have turned-down the Com-
monwealth’s proposals for a new housing
agreement to replace the one expiring in
lune. As Menzies intimated 18 months
ago, the Commonwealth wants a propor-
tion of the loan-money to be earmarked
for building-societies and similar institu-
tions ; at a conference last week Minister
for National Development Spooner sug-
gested 20 per cent, for the first two years
and 30 per cent, for the remaining three
years of the agreement.
Five of the States (Victoria is the excep-
tion) are standing on their dignity and
saying they can’t accept dictation as to
how their loan-money is to be spent. That
sounds very high-principled, but the more
likely reason is that they don’t want to
decrease the importance of their over-
grown housing commissions. The
“Labor” Premiers aren’t enthusiastic
about encouraging people to buy their
homes.
Other points at issue are the interest-
rate on housing-loans—proposed rate
three-quarters of one per cent, below the
ruling bond-rate —and the suggestion that
10 per cent, of houses built by the States
should go to members of the Defence
Forces. Spooner is confident he can yet
talk the States into accepting all three
proposals.
• •
“Fo’c’sle”: Cairns wharfies have done
it at last! On March 19 they staged a
“mystery” strike —walking-off ships with-
out giving any reason. It had to come
some day —even the watersiders had to
run out of reasons.
R. K. Whately, Victorian Minister for
Forests, Decentralisation and Develop-
ment, who was killed in a road accident
near Yass (N.S.W.), had represented
Camberwell in the Vic. Assembly since
1945. Before entering politics he was for
a long period director of the Victorian
vocational-guidance centre and a psycho-
logical consultant to various public
schools. A Master of Arts of Melbourne
University, with a Diploma in Education
from Sydney, he was 60 when the end
came.
• •
“In the ACT”: Miners drew a drizzly
day for their visit to Canberra, and they
were a subdued crowd. They met first
on the lawn outside Parliament House,
after carrying banners from the buses
which brought them from the railway
Station, and then invaded King’s Hall —
a somewhat bewildered and abashed but
orderly crowd. In the galleries of the
two Houses they listened attentively to
question-time and some of the debate,
and then moved out quietly. It was
doubtless an expensive outing, but it
afforded them some political education.
Yet anything they had to say could have
been said better and more effectively with-
out the trouble and expense of the demon-
stration.
• •
Menzies doubts if the States would
.refer to the Commonwealth the powers
necessary to control h.-p. transactions
(despite Evatt’s assurance that they
would), and he’ll probably wait until the
whole problem of Constitutional reform
is being considered. At the end of
December balances owing to finance-
companies on h.-p. agreements totalled
an estimated £2OB million, an increase of
7 per cent, over the £195 million owing
at the end of September.
• , •
From T. Leahy, Central Council,
Queensland Country Party:
In fearing that the Queensland Country
Party is likely to be swallowed by the local
Libs, merely because Morris or Nicklin speaks
on matters of policy common to both elements
in the joint team, J. A. J. Hunter (B. 14/3/’56)
is worrying over a mare’s-nest.
If he gives full weight to the second par. in
his own statement, in which he appreciates the
Q.C.P. organisation as one of the most exten-
sively developed non-Labor organisations in any
of the States, it should be clear to him that no
junta either inside or outside the organisation
can change its constitution without the consent
of a majority of its financial members. These are
organised into a State-wide network of branches,
electorate- and divisional-councils, and no
amalgamations or even affiliations can take
place except by the wishes of a majority at an
annual general conference.
When either Morris or Nicklin speaks for the
joint team he is doing as Menzies and
Fadden have done for the past six years and
what J. A. J. Hunter himself did on occasions
when an active member of the Bruce-Page
Federal Government, and a Minister in the
Lyons Government.
• •
Foster Dulles, with his power for
descriptive phrases, suggests that the U.S.
keep an economic and military “protec-
tive umbrella” over Asia —as a shield, no
doubt, from the Red-reign drops.
• •
Will the documents the Moscow boys
are threatening to reveal to the world
include any relating to Petrov or his dis-
closures? If they do, will Bert shout
“Conspiracy”?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
MELBOURNE University’s Wilson
Hall is nearing completion, amid
acclaim from many quarters. The build-
ing does indeed possess some beautiful
lines, except for those spoilt by that
abominable copper-box which was added
as an afterthought to house the other-
wise admirable organ. Although one
could not but be aware of the all-pervad- •
ing modernity, it came as a shock when
the voice of the “man testing the,
acoustics” came loud and clear from the
bank of loudspeakers. He was reading
the report of the Goossens-affair from a
newspaper. —‘ ‘ W.C.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tidak Makan”: To one Sydney paper
Archbishop Makarios is a figure, or
figures, of mystery. In its Sunday issue it
gave his age as 78. In a midweek edition
a special article on one page stated his
age was 43, whilst a news-item on another
page revealed him to be 60. The next
Sunday he was rejuvenated to a mere
42. It can be presumed the Archbishop,
departing from the common rule, is as old
as they feel he is.
❖ ❖ »!♦
“Tabba”: So they’re launching ships
on bananas instead of tallow in India?
A friend on the N.S.W. North Coast, who
went to buy a car, checked the diff. for
the old sawdust-lurk, and when he got
the plug out the smell knocked him over.
A local garage-hand knew the answer.
“Bananas,” he said. “When Jim has a
bomb to sell he always quietens the diff.
with bananas. There’s more than one
bomb in this district sliding along on
bananas!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“A.S.M.”: What is happening to our
children? As assistant stage-manager at
one of Sydney’s little-theatres, giving
“I suppose it’s all a matter of taste, but I personally should hate it if
Women Were REALLY like that!"
the “Five-minutes, please” call, I found
one mother frantically teaching her 11-
year-old member of the cast how to use —
a skipping-rope!
♦J4 »J 4 4 J 4
“Lorna Doone”: On one of this year’s
hottest days I muscled-in on the Sport
of Kings, and took a £5O-to-£l double
on an inter-State chart. The first-leg had
won, and excitement ran high when the
race came on, audible only, and the
second-leg featured in a photo-finish.
Then a race on my own course. My
suspense was allayed by word that my
iriter-State nag had won ; then further
extended by a protest entered . . . I’d
had it; but when the protest was dis-
missed I was strong enough to shout for
my friends. In the lounge was a free-
for-all, and in my change was a very
wet ten-bob note. Then I dashed out to
follow my luck, apologising to the per-
spiring bookie for the beery note. “Don’t
you worry, lady,” he replied cheerfully.
“ ’Ere, Bert,, put it in the shade. I’ll
wring it out for us in a minute!”
“Dorian”: Choir and clergy had just hit
the recessional home-stretch when there
was a papery “plop” and a dexterous
movement by a senior gentleman of the
cloth. In the vestry it was whispered
that a choirboy had dropped a comic-
book in the nave ; the dean, sic transit,
had rescued it. Offered his choice of
punishments —six cuts or the writing-out
of “Rock of Ages” 500 times—the lad
wisely chose the transcription. Dean was
an ex-footballer.
* * ❖
“Apemantus”: “Over all the world, he
act the same, the official,” said the New
Australian. “Sometimes, on gifts from
home, duty we must pay, then get refund.
Igo ; official harsh, strict; I pay, write
for return money. My wife go ; she smil-
ing ; official more helping ; she not pay.
Much she smile. Mostly, everytime now,
my wife go.”
♦I 4
“Jasby”: At this distance the murder
of a man before the altar of a village
church in Cyprus can be dismissed as an
old Cypriot custom ; a thing that couldn’t
“James, ask her Ladyship if she'd care for a second helping."
happen here —too un-Australian. Yet
only last week I witnessed a scene which
could easily have ended the same way.
As I was passing a suburban Presbyterian
church I became aware of a disturbance
just inside the gate. A gunman was
astride the church notice-board, his
pistol levelled at two young ruffians
struggling on the asphalt pavement below.
A blonde gun-moll was also watching the
wrestlers and urging the fellow on the
notice-board to “Let ’em both have it!
Go on! Shoot ’em!” The gunman
seemed irresolute, and the bus' whisked
me out of sight before he could make up
his mind. One of the wrestlers was wear-
ing a Davy Crockett cap and the gunman
was armed with a Hopalong Cassidy six-
shooter.
<£♦ +J+
“Peel-street”: “Mari’s” vacuum-demon-
strator (B. 14/3/’56) returned a wonderful
percentage by unloading five machines
among 20 Italians! My career in, that
line landed me in a preponderantly-
Italian district, where “the little wonder,”
speaking for itself, sold in a matter of
minutes. Had almost clinched a sale at
my second attempt when in a burst two
wildly-gesticulating women, my first cus-
tomer and a mate. I then witnessed an
Italian crisis, the outcome of which was
that my second prospective victim turned
and said, “I no want.” The three women
then rushed headlong out the door and
fanned-out to surrounding houses. How
many further shares were sold in the
“Little Wonder Company” I cannot say,
but I reckon that it was doomed to be-
come the most overworked machine in
Australia.
♦> ♦> ♦>
“Jemac”: Brisbane’s Wool Festival
opened in sticky, steamy weather, with a
military-band playing that good old
shearers’ ditty “Carolina in the Morning.”
There were speeches about the inferiority
of synthetics, about the danger of synthe-
tics, and there was shearing of jumbucks
in august King George Square., The
slogan-competition prize was won with:
“Color, glamor, warmth, wear —wool’s
the answer to your prayer” ; and through
all the woolliness moved (in a light
woollen dress) Miss Anne Patrick, Wool
Princess, in Brisbane as representative of
the U.S. wool-industry. Miss Patrick
hails from South Carolina, in the very
pod, as it were, of the cotton-industry.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: Complaints have been made
that Melbourne citizens couldn’t relax to
the Moomba spirit. One party did. It
was returning from a public jollification
at midnight when somebody suggested
reviving ye olde English . custom of
Christmas waits, and, selecting a huge
block of flats, they started singing. A
solitary window flew open and a head
stuck out. “There’s a girl down there
who can sing,” said the head. “If she’ll
sing Mozart’s ‘Alleluia’ I’ll pay her —but
I don’t expect she can.” A second later
the strains of that lovely music were
floating on the still air and a dozen other
windows flew open. “Here’s a bob for
you,” the first man shouted. The singer
was one of Melbourne’s best sopranos,
v
v v *
“Kaymara”: On one R.A.A.F. station
j was at during the war there was a Sgt.
Sergeant. Now, just lately, I’ve had
dealings with an Auburn (Sydney) medico,
Dr. Doctor.
♦> ***
.. Hadriao ... After several years at
Q ueens | and university with a blind
Y , y
form “ P-°.- w '
m Philosophy, I thoug t i
* sai " A/ m “ e , d V m
,h f Mind - , But rece ? ! y A “
interview a teenager, blind for five years,
who had passed Scholarship (with 130
out of 150 for maths), and who is now
doing Sub-Junior at a Brisbane suburban
high-school. I was mildly impressed
w jth the kid’s courage and perseverence in
tackling secondary subjects, until the
principal told me the lad was continuing
to shine at maths.—then I was staggered.
jje has to use logarithms—from a braille-
book the size of an old family-Bible.
* * *
„ Roni „. A the crowd waiting at
ai ort t 0 welcome Johnny Ray on his
Bris bane were four
h , ogists from Queensland University
fx tun Y ty t 0 observe at first .
gooey example of mass-hysteria,
“Seppy”: The story around is that the
“Cry” man, in true human-side-of-star
fashion, rushed over to an absorbed air-
ways miss and cooed, “How are you,
honey?” Whereupon honey, a sophis-
ticated and much-travelled one, lifted her
head only tag enoughto say coolly,
“Very well, thank you, Mr. Ray, before
riming.to her task. Though his grm
didn’t falter maybe a thread snapped in
his custom-built coat-sleeve,
♦$
In Sydney I’ve resided all
My life and, now, by straining
My memory I can recall
Days when it wasn’t raining !
P.O.M.C.
A L’EXPOSITION
“At the opening of the French Exhibition at
Sydney Royal Easter Show, M. Andre Morice,
representative of the French Government, said,
‘On our side this exhibition is an act of faith
in Australia.’ ”
Maman dit, “Papa et Dave,
Windmills are for pumping wells;
Moulin Rouge you may not have,
Full of dancing mademoiselles!
“No ! No ! No !
Non ! Non ! Non !
C’est si beau,
Mais pas si bon !
‘What’s these Champs Ely sees, now.
That have made so great a fuss ?
Ou est Raspberry, our cow ?
She’s the only champ, for us!
“No! No! No!
Non ! Non ! Non ! ,
lls sont beaux,
Mais elle est bonne!’’
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


17" NOW a zany chap who’s a mechanic.
He washed the grease off his
arm with petrol, rolled a smoke and lit
a match. There was a whuff! and flame
ran up his arm, burning all the hair from
it. No skin-burns, as the petrol had
vaporised. After laughing it off, he an-
nounced, “May as well clean the hair
off the other arm to even it up.” So he
poured petrol on that, struck a. match
and put it to it. This time he really
caught alight, as petrol was dripping
everywhere. His mates had to douse the
blaze. The chap still does zany things ;
the doctor only treated him for the burns
and not the cause.: —“Bosco.”
“ He's a man's dog—always shy and resentful with Women."
“Rimutuka”: For many moons past
a butcher’s shop in Brisbane has featured,
as window-display, a fine, plump pig,
wearing sunglasses and that “come-to-
sunny-Queensland” look. But since old
Jupe started turning on the waterworks
I notice he’s wearing a sou’wester and
an apologetic look!
❖ +> ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: Some comments here on
race-broadcasting reminded me of Mick
Ferry, pioneer in that line on 2FC in the
1920’5. When anything played-up and
dallied at the peg Mick invariably lost
interest in the field and gave us an agitated
resume of the antics of the fractious one,
or he would tarry at the scene of the
fall to reassure us (or otherwise) that horse
and hoop were, or weren’t, O.K. Once
or twice his glasses didn’t return to the
field until the race was over. Phar Lap
cramped Mick’s style, winning w.f.a.
races from go to whoa by the length of
some Randwick streets. But Mick found
a way —he described Phar Lap for one
furlong and the also-rans for the next,
and so on.
♦:♦ ❖ *
“Erah”: Visiting New Zealand, I had
the first four days in Wellington Hospital,
and as I was about to leave I was
approached by a stranger, a pint-size
Aussie. She said she was working there
as a pantry-maid and she represented sik
other Aussies working in the kitchens;
they had heard that an Aussie was ill and
thought that perhaps I, too, was working
my way round ; and did I need any money
to see me through?
♦J* ♦!♦ *s*
“Me-Me”: From my navigator-son on
an R.A.A.F.-station: “Mum, I assure
you I haven’t got anything mixed, but
our Church of England padre is named
O’Brien and the opposition’s padre*
Wallace. Even the padres quip each
other about it.”
♦:♦ *t* ❖
“J.0.E.L.”: Tell “C.P.G.” (B. 14/3/’56)
that hand-beaten pewter beer-mugs, made
in Sheffield (Eng.), were on sale for 525. 9d
.each in Adelaide. I paid-up for the sake
of the glass bottom depicting the convict
swinging from the gallows.
♦> ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Baggyduds”: “Tom Trout” (B.
7/3/’56) need not have gone as far afield
as England to find clippies bedecked with
ticker-tape ticket-disgorgers —W.A. bus-
girls were using them when I was there
four years ago. The machines were also
ready-reckoners: a button pressed at the
end of a shift indicated how much the
money-bag should hold. This bus co.
was an English offshoot, which probably
explains how W.A. gained this brain-
child of an Old Dart boffin. The tele-
phone-dial effect tricked at least one
Westaussie drunk, who vociferously in-
sisted on wanting to call a cab to meet
him at his destination.
*l* $ +!♦
“Doormat”: What would some of our
brides say if the ring were put on their
thumb? A portrait of an Elizabethan
lady shows hers worn that way. The old
wives’ tale of a vein running from the
fourth finger of the left hand to the heart
has long been exploded by medicoes, but
many a bride would consider herself not
properly wed if the ring were on any
other finger. Some enterprising jeweller
concocted the idea that diamonds are a
must for wedding-rings because the
sparkle “originated in the alchemistic
fires of love”! The ring wants some
such alchemy: it developed from the
circular fetters, or bracelets, placed on
captive women in primitive times, mark-
ing their subjection and servitude.
“Kenyas”: Street-cries such
as “Bottle-oh!” and “Cloze-
props!” have long died down
in our Sydney North Shore
suburb —all except “Beautiful
fresh strawberries! Fresh
beautiful strawberries today! ”
This, in the most unlikely sea-
sons, a stentorian voice con-
tinues to shout. It must be a
healthy occupation: the
sturdy character who goes
the rounds hasn’t changed
much since his first appear-
ance in these parts some 30-
years ago. He makes no
secret of his opinion of our
kind. “They’re the lousiest
lot of cows you’ll strike any-
where,” he roared at me
across the street. “Look at
’em with their big cars and
posh homes —all wall-to-wall,
venetian-blinds, cocktail-bars,
goldfish-ponds and swim-
ming-pools—yet the miser-
able dogs [female gender] ’ll
argue the toss over a bloody
penny!”
♦> ♦> ♦♦♦
“Croid”: Latest social
horror is the color-photo-
grapher. You get invited,
and you’re settling down for
a homely chat when the host
announces: “I must show
you the pictures we took on
our trip.” Out comes the
projector, and you’re sub-
jected to what, in the olden
days, was called a lantern-
lecture, accompanied by a
commentary: “That’s me in
the purple trunks”; “This is
a frightful one of Mum”
(Mum shrieks, “00, you
promised not to show that!”);
“These are Mr. and Mrs.
Bloggs—they sat at our
table”; “This is a dog we
made friends with at Coolan-
gatta.” By midnight you’ve
given up all efforts to stifle
yawns. I prefer the old album of black-
and-white photographs—one could skim
through them hurriedly and still appear
interested.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Columba”: We are teaching our two-
and-a-half-year-old to brush her teeth,
and she stands admiringly beside Dad at
the washbasin, enthusiastically copying
him. But she is puzzled at not being able
to take her ivories out for the process,
though she tugs hopefully each time.
>s
“Caly”: Telegraphy in the old grind-'
ing wrist-work days often was brightened
by comment from faraway blokes one
frequently heard but never saw. Kal-
goorlie was switched direct to Melbourne
one night. KA started unloading a lot
of many-worded lettergrams on me. One
was of 85 words, but my count made it
86. It was a safe guess that the front-
counter had ignored the quotation-marks
around the name of the house in the
address. The goldfields chap soon fixed
that up. “0.K., cut out the snakebites,”
he said.
♦S ♦> +s
“Bis”: The light gleamed on her shin-
ing hair demurely tied back with ribbon
and on bare shoulders emerging from a
beruffled bodice as she glided gracefully
amongst the throng . . . Grandma dancing
the minuet? No, Granddaughter negoti-
ating the Saturday-morning traffic on a
motor-scooter.
THE CHIN-MUSICIANS
“A statistical inquiry into how humans spend
their lives reveals, inter alia, that during an
average life a man uses-up four years of it m
conversation, a woman live years.
“My love,” I began, “here’s a spot
Of news”— that’s as far as I got.
The strife interrupted : “I’ve read it.
It’s the silliest thing I’ve read yet.
A man cooked that up, you can bet.
And it’s nothing at all to his credit.
They claim women talk quite a lot.
Every woman knows that is all rot.
We may gossip sometimes, but,
gracious!
For chatter I haven’t the taste,
And, besides, it’s the time that you
waste. t
It’s men who are really loquacious!’
“But”—l said. “There you go!” she cut
in.
“Simply bursting to shoot off your chin!
You see ? You men go criticising
The women for talking. You might
See this thing in a different light
If yourselves you would start
analysing !”
With that lot her breath was near gone,
So she took a deep one, and went on :
“When it comes to the one who’s the
talker
I’m not in the race, and that’s flat,
Once you start in, on this and on that!
You must admit you are a corker.”
With a desperate effort, then, I
Broke in. “My dear, do you deny
That it’s proven statistics he’s
quoting ?”
Her throttle then got in top-gear;
Some ten minutes later my ear
Was numb, as her chords kept on
mating.
But let us be fair. I do think
Those figures are much on the blink.
I doubt that researcher had closely
Examined the subject. I nurse
This feeling: that women converse
Only one year more , understates
grossly!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
EASTER
npHERE is still not uniformity of the
observance of Easter after two-
thousand years of squabbling.
Our own word “Easter” is derived
from the word “Eostre” or “Ostara,” the
Anglo-saxon Goddess of Spring.
The early Christians did not celebrate
Easter. However, the Jewish Passover
continued to be celebrated and became
our Christian Easter. Trouble first started
when the Jewish and Gentile Christians
made an issue of the exact date of the end
of the Paschal Fast. The Jewish Christians
ended their fast on the fourteenth day
of the moon at evening, and the Easter
Festival followed immediately. With the
Gentile Christians the first day of the
week would be identified with the Resur-
rection Festival. The preceding Friday
was kept in commemoration of the
Crucifixion, irrespective of the day or
month. The fast continued with increas-
ing strictures until Saturday midnight.
The Roman Church decided to adopt
the Gentile rule, and at the Council of
“Oh, don't worry, boss—knock it
off my Week's pay."
Micah in a.d. 325 it was decided that
Easter would be kept on the same day
throughout the world —but they couldn’t
agree on the day. At the Council of
Orleans in a.d. 541 it was decided that
Easter would be determined according
to the tables of Victorius. The ancient
British Church preferred to keep to the
old 84-years-cycle, and it was not until
a.d. 669 that the Roman rule was
adopted in England.
The rule was now accepted that Easter
Day was the first Sunday after the
fourteenth day of the calendar moon
which happens on or next after March
21. This calendar moon, however, was
an imaginary moon created for ecclesi-
astical convenience, in advance of the
real moon.
Fresh trouble started after nine
centuries, in 1582, when the English
refused to adopt the Gregorian reforma-
tion of. the calendar. They remained
adamant until 1752, when the new style
was adopted. The Russian, Greek and
most oriental Churches still observe the
unreformed calendar, so that their Easter
still does not coincide with that of the
Western Churches.
MARGRETH.
T ONG, long ago, damp and soaked
' Druids trekked through the streets
of Melbourne every autumn to celebrate
the Easter rebirth of Nature, largely
because Australia’s first printers “followed
copy,” and if the calendar said Easter
in the Australian autumn, then autumn
was spring for their purposes.
Long ranks of cowled, berobed and
bewhiskered men marched every Easter
Monday, rain or shine ; generally with
90 per cent, more rain than shine.
After many years of these woebegone
processions the hoary Druids grew weary
of wringing-out robes and whiskers and
dying of tuberculosis, and gave up the
annual traipse. They went to the races
instead ; nor have they yet brought their
calendars and fetes up-to-date, as have
the Incas, Hottentots, Zulus, Maoris and
Australian aborigines, whose spring-
festivals happen around September or
October.
It was in Sydney that a Scots printer,
still obsessed by northern-hemisphere
calendars, succeeded to the office of Arch-
Priest or something, but objected to having
to wear the beard left by predecessor-
prophets, two of whom had died of con-
sumption. Wordy battles raged up to the
grand councils of the Order and,
eventually, our Scot got his new beard, on
the house.
2NDGEN.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Keith Hancock, K.C.8., M.A., D.Litt.,
F.8.A., goes to the National University
as Director of the Research School of
Social Sciences and Professor of History.
His reputation as a historian is world-
wide. Melbourne-born, he took his B.A.
at Melbourne Uni., went to Oxford as a
Rhodes Scholar, took first-class honors
in Modern History, and was the first
Australian to be elected a Fellow of All
Souls. Then he had the Chair of Modern
Flistory in Adelaide, the Chair of History
at Birmingham, and the Chichele Chair
of Economic History at Oxford, in
orderly succession. He was editor of the
U.K. War Histories (civil series) and in
1949 became Director of the Institute of
Commonwealth Studies and Professor of
British Commonwealth Affairs at London
University. Current commitments in the
U.K. and S’Africa, particularly his work
on the Smuts papers, will delay his arrival
at Canberra for some months.
0 0
Having commanded the 28th Battalion
(the Swan Regiment) since its post-
war formation in 1952, Lieut.-Colonel
J. C. Newbery goes up to Brigadier of
Western Command’s 13th Infantry
Brigade. An officer in the old militia, he
served with the A.I.F. in the Middle
East and New Guinea, and with the
11/44th Infantry Battalion (City of Perth
Regiment) between the end of the war
and his appointment to the 28th.
0 0
Wilfred Henry Frederick, M.A., goes
from headmastering Wesley to become
Professor of Education at Melbourne
University, succeeding Professor G. S.
Browne (retiring). Born at Williamstown
and educated at Geelong High School,
the new man graduated where he now
takes-over, then went on to the Univer-
sity of Paris. Returning to Australia, he
became senior lecturer in the University
School of Education, and conducted
broadcasts in French for schools. In
1950 he attended the headmasters’ con-
ference at Cambridge and did the rounds
of schools, universities and colleges in
England, on the Continent and in the
U.S. He’s 56.
0 0
The history of Leo Buring, one of the three
hon. vice-presidents of the R.A.S. of N. S.
Wales, is almost the story of the wine-industry
in Australia over the last half-century. The
Buring family were Austrians transplanted to
Berlin—Mr. Buring believes, from a family
coat-of-arms in which grapes were conspicuous,
that they were originally vignerons; a gold tie-
pin he wears, also grape-decorated, belonged to
his grandfather. The family came to Australia
in 1849, and Leo Buring was born at Friederichs-
walde (S.A.). He went to Prince Alfred College,
Adelaide, then to Roseworthy Agricultural
College; Roseworthy gold-medallist and dux.
Next, overseas, to study wine at the famous
schools at Montpellier, in the south of France
LEO BURING
(where, with Bouffard, he did research on the
concrete fermenting-storage-tanks now-in general
use in Australia), and at Geisenheim, on the
Rhine. Back in Australia, he joined H. Buring
and Sobels; in 1900 went to Rutherglen, and
in 1901 took-over management of Hans Irvine,
Great Western Vineyards, A year later he was
manager for Minchinbury Vineyards in N.S.W.;
he produced the first Minchinbury champagne,
which, with other Minchinbury table-wines, took
six gold-medals at the Brewers’ and Wine
Exhibition in London in 1906.
Fenfolds took-over in 1914, and he stayed
on as manager until 1919, when he set-up in
business as technical adviser to several wine-
firms: Seppelts, Great Western Vineyards,
R. C. H. Walker (later Emu Wine Co.), T. C.
at Broome during the more boisterous era
of pearling, he trod the usual country
beats until transfered to Perth. Now 55,
he has been assistant-commissioner since
that appointment was created about three-
and-a-half years ago ; he’s acting-commis-
sioner while Commissioner T. H. Ander-
sen is seconded for other duties in
connection with patrol of licensed betting-
shops.
® °
A tribute from J. K. Moir:—-
Jessie Sinclair Litchfield, who has passed on
in Melbourne, was born at Strathfield (Sydney),
and later lived in Victoria, but it is with the
Northern Territory that her name will be
linked.
Forty-five years ago she was living in the
diamond-drilling camps in the Anson Bay area.
There she at times carried her baby with one
hand and a revolver in the other. Later, in
Darwin, she edited the “Northern Territory
Walker, Angrove’s, Ltd., H. M. Martin, Aus-
tralian Wines, Ltd., and others. Lindemans
called him in to report, and in 1924 he was
the firm’s governing-director. He established
Lindeman’s London office, and opened an
export-trade with Canada.
In 1931 he started his own firm. In 1933
the Commonwealth Government commissioned
him to report on the wine-industry, and the
following year he was commissioned to open-up
export of wines to the U.S. A hundred-thousand
gallons were exported the first year, marketed
in bottles with a “Southern Cross” label, but
the trade-diversion policy of the Lyons Govern-
ment led to Australian wine being placed on
the “unfavored nation” list, and high duty
killed the promising experiment.
Down in a cellar below his George-street
office, sitting at a table made from the huge
barrels which once contained the wine brought
from his S.A. vineyards, Leo Buring talked of
these high matters in a setting far removed from
the bustle of the street overhead: electric-light
shining ruddily through glass grapes; biscuits
and wine; murals. Outside, rows of vats
decorated with scenes from Omar Khayyam,
painted by Ray Lindsay; and stacks of cases
of wine laid down by parents for their offspring’s
21st birthday, sealed with the infant’s thumb!
o «
On her way back to Germany after 20
months in northern Australia, Frau A- S.
Schulz, a scientific painter on the staff
of the Frobertius Institute of the Goethe
University, Frankfurt-on-Main. She has
taken with her reproductions of abori-
ginal rock-paintings which will be added
to the institute’s already large collection
of primitive and prehistoric paintings
from European and African countries.
Frau Schulz made her first contact with
primitive Australian art when she copied
rock-drawings during a visit to the Kim-
berleys 17 years ago. She spent the last
six months of her more recent survey
living in a tent among the natives of
Arnhem Land.
0 ©
Sighted in Brisbane, down from
’Wewak (New Guinea), with a war-
imposed hook instead of a hand, an eye-
patch, a face as strong as his native
island’s hardwood and a genial grin, Yau
Wiga, M.M. and Loyalty Medal, rank of
sar’-major. His favorite lurk was to land
from, a submarine with a walkie-talkie
and stalk Jap camps and patrols,
radioing back helpful info. One night,
landed on Bougainville, he was bent over
a bunch of flares which, lit, would mark
the camp for the waiting attack. The
flares exploded. Wiga lost one arm and
was blinded. Flown to Brisbane, he was
given a corneal transplant—one of the
first of its kind in Australia. But now
the sight of his remaining eye is failing ;
Mater Hospital eye-men will do their
best.
e o
Dr. Thomas Logan Robertson, Wes-
tralian Director of Education since 1951,
who is one of the 14 Australians to be
awarded travel-grants by the Carnegie
Corporation for study abroad, will tread
familiar paths when he sets out on his
travels. An athletic six-footer, now 54,
he entered the W.A. service as student-
teacher in 1920, graduated in Arts from
the Westralian University and climbed
every rung in the departmental ladder,
meanwhile gaining a Carnegie Fellowship
and studying education in the U.S., Can-
ada, the U.K. and Europe, taking the
University of London’s Ph.D. (Education)
on the way. Though man-powered when
he tried to join the A.I.F. in War 11, he
was released for special work with Army
Education in 1942, and was a major at
the end of the show. A post-war job was
in planning a special Commonwealth re-
construction-scheme for men rejoining or
entering the department from active-
service. Before his appointment as
director, he put in three years as assis-
tant-director of the Commonwealth
Education Office in Sydney.
0 0
J. Keeffe, Plumbers’ Union clerk in
Brisbane, steps up as the newly elected
State Labor organiser. Wounded on
War II Bougainville.
0 0
At the International Criminal Police
Commission (Interpol) conference in
Vienna next June the police commis-
sioners of all Australian States will be
represented by the Westralian acting-
commissioner, James M. O’Brien, a
burly pleasant-faced chap, who became
a policeman by accident. After leaving
school he qualified as an assaying-chemist
at Perth Tech. He then worked for Fre-
mantle Smelters, and in Kalgoorlie, until
the closing-down of mines in the mining-
depression of the early ’twenties forced
him to look for other employment; hence
his joining the police in 1921. Stationed
ANTHONY HORDERN ( Senior )
Times,” and was correspondent for Reuters
and southern papers. She covered the
Melbourne-centenary air-race, and brought off
a “scoop.”
In 1930 she published Far North Memories—
a very readable account of her life up to then.
For years her pars, and short-stories in The
Bulletin and “Woman’s Mirror” gave readers
interesting items of the North. The only
woman J.P. in the Territory, and member of
all cultural bodies in Darwin, she stood for the
Darwin seat as an Independent some years ago,
and at least polled well enough to save her
deposit, despite the fact that a bad leg made
canvassing the wide electorate just about
impossible. She had forthright ideas, and,
although there are some who did not agree
with them, there are few who did not admire
her enthusiastic efforts for the Territory.
A clause in her will stipulated that she be
cremated and her ashes be distributed on the
foreshore of Darwin. She' leaves a family
which includes two who have been honored by
Royal Humane Society awards.
• •
Westralian University science-graduate
Desmond F. O’Driscoll gets the job of
assistant chief geologist of the Bureau of
Mineral Resources, Canberra. He will
be in charge of the metalliferous division.
From 1936 to 1953 he was with Western
Mining Corporation at Kalgoorlie, and
for two years after that was senior
geologist of Tassie’s Hydroelectric Com-
mission. A World War II bomber-pilot
with the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. ,
• •
“Cosmos”: New Zealander Geoffrey
Cox, who has shot to the top in Britain,
as editor of Independent Television
News, Ltd., has had an adventurous
career. At 45 he can look back on a
chain of successes from the time he was
chosen as an N.Z. Rhodes Scholar. He
reported for London “News Chronicle
in the Spanish civil-war and was one of
the first war-correspondents at the Soviet-
Finnish clash. Joining the Second
N.Z.E.F. in England, he eventually be-
came Freyberg’s divisional intelligence-
officer in the Middle East. When I was
a war-correspondent in those parts he told
me that nobody should be deceived by the
poor showing of the Soviet troops early
in the battle with the Finns, as the first
Red troops were only second-rate.
• •
“Weff”: Older Bulletin readers may
remember “The Prooshan,,” who contri-
buted mainly to “Aboriginalities” back
in the days of “Jimmy Pannikin” and
“Scotty the Wrinkler.” Few outside his
family-circle knew the identity of “The
Prooshan”; even Douglas Stewart and
Nancy Keesing, when they included his
“The Fallen Tree Hotel” in their antho-
logy of bush-ballads, could only give his
pen-name. He was Will Carter, a retired
N. S. Wales schoolteacher, who passed
on at Hurstville (N.S.W.) a few weeks ago
at the age of 88. His first school was at
Lower Tarcutta. Later he ffaught at
Courabyra, Batlow and Sutton Forest,
When the Education Department estab-
lished a correspondence-section Will
Carter was put in charge, and he pion-
eered what has developed into the Black-
friars Correspondence School. His liking
for bush- and nature-study led him to
seek a transfer, .and he taught at Kurra-
jong until his retirement 26 years ago.
Born at Adelong, about which he wrote a
book, he was happiest when yarning
w ith old-timers of his native town.
m •
When the Mayor of Launceston (Tas.),
Mrs Edwards, extended a civic-
> c .« ifr ’ „ n v- t . r „ n( ,
welcome to the South African Veterans
it was almost a family affair. The presi-
dent of the association is her father, P.
Fleming, who saw service in the Boer
War when he was in his ’teens, and was
in the Kaiser’s War, too, with the 15th
Battalion.
• 0
Into the Silence:
At 80, in Sydney, Sir Colin Sinclair, grazier
and businessman, one-time Minister for Lands
and president of the R.A.S. and of the Bank of
New South Wales. A man of widp interests, he
was a director of several big concerns and a
leader in such organisations as the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association (vice-president), Hying
Doctor Service (councillor) and the Cricket
Association.
In Sydney, at 67, following a traffic accident,
Bryan Fuller, Q.C., Presbyterian churchman,
president of the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation, a leading member of the Bar in common
law, and for a long time active in the affairs of
the N.S.W. Bar Association and Law Council.
Until recently he was president of the Uni-
versity Club. Sir George Fuller, a former
N.S.W. Premier, was his brother.
In Sydney, Leonard W. Chamberlain, of
Albury, partner in Biggin and Ayrton, Sydney
woolbuyers, and South Australian cricketer of
earlier days. An all-round good sportsman.
In London, at 50, A. F. Castle, a director of
Shell Oil Co. of N.Z. He came to N.Z. from
London in 1926, and as the company’s aviation-
and publicity-manager was well-known
throughout the Dominion.
In Sydney, at 69, W. H. Davies, managing-
director of Lindeman’s. He was an R.A.S.
councillor and a former president of the Wine
Producers’ Association of N.S.W. A master ot
the art of wine-blending.
In Perth, at 77, Thomas Nelson Lee, founda-
tion-headmaster of Northam High School. One
of the contingent of N.S.W. teachers who
joined the Westralian Department before the
turn of the century, he could number among
Westralian pupils runner Shirley Strickland and
cricketer John Rutherford.
At Yass (N.S.W.), at 60, Robert Kirkham
Whately, Minister for Forests, Decentralisation
and Development in the Victorian Government.
He took his Diploma of Education at Sydney,
M.A. at Melbourne, and also studied in the
U-S.A. Careers Master at Scotch (Melbourne),
director of the State Vocational Guidance
Centre, he went into Parliament (for Camber-
well) in 1945, but retained his interest m voca-
tional guidance, practising as a consulting
psychologist in Collins-street and as consultant
to private and public schools.
In Perth, at 78, James Jeffery, horse-trainer:
associated with racing in Western Australia from
when he took out his jockey’s licence m 189/.
Among horses he trained were Rivose (deaa-
heated with Eurythmic in 1919), San Sanatra,
and Sir Coral (winner of the Queen’s Cup).
In Sydney, Fanny Durack (Mrs. Sarah
Gately), first woman to win an Olympic swim-
ming-title. She won the 100-metres freestyle
championship for Australia in 1912 at Stock-
holm —the first Olympic Games at whicn
women-swimmers competed.
At Hampstead (Eng.), at 64, Sidney Strube,
whose cartoons earned him an estimated
£stglo,ooo a year. David Low, writing-an the
“Manchester Guardian,” said Strube was the
gentlest of men” —in fact, too kind tor a
satirist. His great creation was the little man,
and Low recalls that he was “much bothered
by imitators.”


FRENCH EXHIBITION
APRES VOUS!


ABORIGINALITIES
TT was a still, hot, thundery evening,
with a shimmering moon-bridge span-
ning our little bay. I stood on the terrace
above the road, and between road and
teach every coconut-palm, she-oak,
calophyllum and other tree, as far as the
eye could see, was covered with moving,
twinkling lights fluttering in the tropic
night. Whence came they, and where did
they go, those myriads of fireflies,
glimpsed in such numbers only once in a
long lifetime, here where a few are always
to be found? At sunset yesterday, the
swallows flew low, and the swiftlets a
little higher, feasting on myriads of flying-
ants ; but I see that slaughter every year,
in some lull between monsoona! showers.
And suddenly hosts of green grasshoppers
are eating my rosebuds; but their in-
vasion is a yearly one. It is just those
living jewels, the fireflies, that swarm but
once in a long, long while. —“Konmak.”
* * * *
“Jackaranda Jim”: Floods may rise—
so do the important parts of Cox
Brothers’ store in Lismore (N.S.W.). Be-
devilled by frequent floods, the owners
have built sections of walls, containing
drawers and other compartments,
attached to large copper buoyancy-
tanks. Last flood there was 3ft. of water
in the store—instead of drowning 3ft.
under, goods worth thousands of pounds
rose buoyantly, untouched. The wall-
sections can rise up to 10ft.
* * * *
“Macnell”: London , papers and
ours —described the Seychelles (island-
of-exile for Archbishop Makarios and
mates) as “remote” and “lonely.” Well,
the Garden of Eden was that, I suppose.
That’s how we found it in War II —very
much an Eden. Our destroyer made
Mate, the main island of these “Pearls
of the Indian Ocean,” just after dawn.
From out of the flat sea Mahe’s peaks
reared in mountainous splendor, the sun
searching through their shadowed veil
of blue and defining deep folds of green,
“Attend closely—this patient has a horror of crowds."
lovely, silent valleys. In several a thread
of silver stooped towards the sea, the
zigzags of the falling water leaping now
and then into long, straight falls. The
whole island is like that —lushly lovely.
Did the British feel it might sweeten this
sour fruit?
* * * *
“Motuku”: There’s a good deal of
variety in the fishing-technique of our
wading birds —spoonbills, herons, sea-
curlews and oyster-catchers—but the most
entertaining performance is that of a
jabiru hunting little fish in shallow water.
He will slowly follow a shoal of small
fry, herding them into a narrow inlet,
and then, with three or four ungainly
standing jumps, accompanied by the
flapping of outstretched wings, send them
slithering up into water too shallow to
swim in, where his big bumble-bill can
easily scoop them up.
* * * *
“Kerba”: On the seaward side o’f the
Prince’s Highway, about a mile before
the road runs through the town of Berry
(N.S.W.), a fine, spreading building
stands out from the rolling, green pad-
docks. It is Berry Hospital. Originally
the home of the Berry family (who also
founded and gave the name to the town),
the mansion was bequeathed to the dis-
trict as a hospital, with this important
stipulation: So long as the hospital exists,
any colored person residing within a 10-
mile radius of the town shall be given
treatment absolutely free. Despite the
much-fostered supposition, all of our
pioneers were not cruel, callous or in-
different in their attitude towards the
aborigines.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”: It isn’t only the wing-
less “galah” that cops a clip under the
ear. Watched a ragged, rowdy formation
of the original species flying close to the
river-oaks. Out of the blue dived a
falcon. As he went through the mob
there came a puff of crest-feathers, and
one flyer Catherine-wheeled earthwards.
The falcon planed easily to a tree, where
he preened his breast-feathers, taking no
further interest in his victim. The latter,
recovering near the ground, ploughed
through a patch of bracken, collided with
a stump and, clutching it, crawled on
top to nurse, without a doubt, the king of
all headaches.
* * * *
“Koonah”: Trout taken from various
tree-lined streams in Victoria have been
found to taste strongly of eucalyptus.
The cause has been traced to a diet of
saw-fly caterpillars, which, falling into
the water, have proved too strong a lure
for this normally selective fish. These
inch-long, black caterpillars congregate
in writhing masses, up to the size of a
man’s fist, along the outer tv/igs of most
types of gum, feeding on the tender
leaves. This stokes their innards with
a greenish liquid highly charged with
eucalyptus, and it is this pungent stuff
which contaminates the fish.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Two inches of rain yes-
terday in this neck of the Queensland
woods, and the winged male and female
white-ant forms are around my table in
hundreds tonight. Many people are
unaware that these are actually termites.
The species has a body-length of about
|in. overall, with the four gauzy wings
folded l|in. The little swivelled-head is
brownish-black, with opaque-looking,
jet-black eyes. Having eyes sets them
apart from the worker- and soldier-castes,
which are both blind and sterile. The
seven-segmented, cockroachlike abdomen
is dark-tan, the hooded thorax almost
black; underneath is pure.white. The
two antennas are short and the cutting-
nippers underdeveloped In the yard to-
morrow will probab y be heaps of dis-
carded wings; but the various colony-
sites of the termites will not be so easy
0 10ca e ‘
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Glad to hear that those
magpie-geese escaped “Motuku’s” gun
“It Was your grandfather last Week; now it's your grandmother. I'm
sorry , but you cant have the afternoon off.”
(B. 7/3/’56), but surprised that they out-
walked their would-be slayer. These fowl
are, of course, web-footed, and that is
usually considered a heavy handicap in
walking or running. The structure of an
avian’s foot has a definite bearing on its
capacity to perch, scratch, run, etc. Out-
right champions “on the flat” come from
the small group of three-toed birds, among
which are numbered emu, cassowary and
bustard-quail. Among aquatic fowl,
webbed-feet denote an expert swimmer,
but clumsy walker. On the other hand,
swimmers with free toes frequently excel
in walking, as witness the purple-gallinule.
The magpie-goose—incidentally, it isn’t a
goose—is a bit of a freak. It has longer
legs and is better balanced on them than
any other web-footed fowl known to me.
Moreover, the webbing is less extensive
than is usual. I cannot share “Motuku’s”
admiration for the pied-goose as a walker,
but among lobe-toed fowl he is best of
a bad lot.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Strong sunlight striking
along a wall at a certain angle will make
good brickwork look rough enough to be
walked-up. Knew an old bricky who fin-
ished a job of tuckpointing and went to
collect his money. The owner came to
inspect, and, horrified, refused to pay
until the work was done again to his satis-
faction. The old fellow didn’t argue. He
just sat and smoked his pipe until the
sun had moved around several points,
then asked for another inspection. The
owner was amazed that the job could
have been done again, and sc- well, in
such an incredibly short time. Similarly,
an architect, who certainly should have
known better, once condemned the work
of the best bricky amongst us; yet with
the strong sunlight off it, it was as good
as any I’ve seen.
* * * *
“Wallah”: In its native habitat the
wallaby no more than holds its own.
Introduced some years ago to New Zea-
land, with its high rainfall and lush pas-
tures, together with plenty of cover and
few wild animals to prey upon the mar-
supials, they have now reached such num-
bers that the Government has employed
professional hunters to shoot them. Last
year the tally was around 8500.
* * * *
T I wr a
gol^ e lds' was proild of his garten,'
| t for one comer in the from where
nO „V ever He , it down t 0
a thj f vi council-planted pepper-tree
; n | a r his fro J t fence ‘’XTequest
f 0 the s council for its removal got \ m
nowhere One day he found roots from
it growing up throug h the perforated bot-
tom of a barrel carrying a much-cherished
and much-watered shrub. Soon after, the
council had to remove one mysteriously
dead pepper-tree. My friend marvels
at the quantity of cyanide-solution that
can be absorbed through the cut-end of a
trespassing pepper-root.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Surprise has been expressed
because a duck —grey teal—banded near
Perth in 1954 has been bagged 18 months
later near the River Darling (N.S.W.).
But odd ducks have made that trip
before —probably have been making it
for thousands of years; and in a good
season like 1955, when the whole of'inland
Australia was deluged, the trip wouldn’t
have required any great powers of
endurance. On whichever route the duck
travelled there could be dry stages, but
they’d hardly worry a bird with the
duck’s powers of flight and ability to find
water. Regarding this ability, vermin-
inspectors flying over the dry country
south of the Canning Stock Route have
seen ducks on the dry beds of inland
lakes waiting for the water which came
with the rain 24 hours later ; and there’s
reason for assuming they knew it was
coming.
* * * 4
VS7HERE great bullock-teams once
dragged the fallen forest-giants of
the Westralian bush over the long, rough
haul to the mill, today compact little
tractors seize the massive trunks, like
a hornet straddling a grub.
Skilfully handled, these haulers make
light of steep hillside and creek-bed;
they twist and turn in their own length.
But it is the felling of the towering
karri and the less-impressive but tougher
jarrah that has been more strikingly
revolutionised. The superbly-muscled
axeman swinging his razor-sharp axe
from a platform 10ft. or 12ft. from the
ground has mostly disappeared. A
power-saw, circular and adjustable to
any angle, does the job in a tenth of the
time.
Two blows with the axe cut a wedge
which determines the line of fall: then
the saw bites through the trunk with
almost incredible speed. I saw two
fair-sized jarrahs brought down in five
minutes.
Then the same saw cut off the branch
waste, and the great prone column was
ready for the mill.
G. ELBURG.
COUNTRY MEMORIAL
He stands
Beside a wayward country road
Where a one-street town begins,
And things are to him unknown, untold —
Noon’s heat hushes; morning’s dins.
Dawn sets the amber light along the hill,
Unveils the .b'lack names carved in white,
But all is one with him—unseeing still,
With him in eternal night.
Where once they laughed and called,
He and they,
They are but autumn leaves that fall
On a scarlet, riotous day.
At his feet, the Anzac wreaths
Have blistered and have wept;
Only florists’ wire and spikes remain
To mark the old, old debt.
Swiftly running on,
A small boy
Halts in his track, breathless from his run,
Weaving for his mother youth’s brave tales—
“ And then I’ll b'e a soldier, too! What fun!”
And she, hurrying home to the bails,
Gives a glance, a shudder, and is gone.
Green light flecked in mist-cloud bands;
Shivery patterns of shadow on sun;
Darkening dusk.
And sightless still, a soldier in stone
He stands.
QUEENSLAND.
JEANNETTE POWELL.


A BULL and his harem of six used their
heads to beat the sandfly plague that
followed the floods in our Queensland
neck-of-the-woods. They parked along-
side the outlet of the sawdust-blower at
the sawmill. The sawdust adhering to
their damp hides gave them an appearance
calculated to startle any show-ring judge
into teetotalism. —“Uliago.”
* * * *
“Baywood”: Before I get killed in the
crush, Ted Scorfield’s dogs .are a treat to
gaze at; but when it comes to “ships of
the desert,” wherever did he sight an
“ooshta” with a bit in its mouth (B.
14/3/’56)? Single nose-pegs, yes; and
double ones, too ; and where’s the saddle
and where’s the girth? \
* * * *
“Ceg”: All one-time visiting horse-
buyers were not so well endowed with
cash as the Sultan of Johore. One called
on me at the bank in a large Riverina
town ; a battler getting a mob together
for the Dutch Government’s cavalry in
Java. He had the horses yarded-up, but
not enough cash to pay for them. He
ensconced himself in the chair opposite
me and, doodling on the customers’
blotter, put his case. The loan would be
very temporary —only so long as it took
the Dutch colonel to inspect the nags. . .
I turned him down, but apparently he
was not surprised: when he left the office
I had a look at the doodling, and on the
pad was a three-ball device and “Aban-
don hope all ye who enter here.”
* * * *
“Moorapi”: Tallangatta (Vic.), mak-
ing way for enlargement of the Hume
Dam, is vacating its valley—which will
be flooded within two years—for higher
ground four-and-a-half miles away. Mov-
able houses are being hauled there by
motor-trailer via a bridge specially built
over the Mitta Mitta. Hospital, schools,
churches, shops, post-office, hotels and
“Excuse me —are you a member ?”
brick homes are being rebuilt. The
smaller street-trees have been trans-
planted. Cost will be in the millions.
Australia’s newest town, on land formerly
occupiecT by a sheep-station, will be
officially opened on June 29 by the
Governor-General.
* * * *
“Grey Gum”: The koala was ambling
along to his next tree when he came
face-to-face with a calf tethered on a
grassy patch. Like any other bear in
similar circumstances he expected the calf
to get out of his way. The calf, however,
merely backed a few paces as the bear
moved forward, their noses almost
touching. Then the calf licked the bear’s
nose, making him retreat a little. The
bear went forward again, the calf moved
back ; then another lick. How long this
comedy might have lasted isn’t known:
the boy-owner of the calf thought his pet
would have its eyes damaged and dragged
it away, whereupon ferocious Koala con-
tinued contentedly to his tree.
* * * *
“N.L.”: On the N.S.W. North Coast
I caught some splendid eels and thor-
oughly enjoyed the meal. I mentioned
it to a couple of locals, who were
amusedly contemptuous: “Pig feed!”
They admitted they had never tasted eel,
and said emphatically they never would.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: We were on the
coastal plain near the Moore River, north
of Perth, with a couple of good dogs and
the prospect of putting up a ’roo or two ;
but just as we came into the good coun-
try. there was a sudden scurry ahead of
the horses, and the dogs were off after a
fleeting wave of sand. I knew what it
was, and when we reached the small tree
50yds. ahead there was the goanna sit-
ting up on top trying to look like a
branch. I wasn’t interested in him, but
Ted said something about making a meal
off him if we didn’t get a ’roo, and shin-
ned up the tree. The go. didn’t wait.
He jumped, and he was running when he
hit the ground —and so were the dogs.
They were good dogs, and I’d never seen
them miss a Yoo, but the go. increased
his lead as he went. Don’t know how far
he took them, but when the dogs came
back half-an-hour later they were dead-
beat. And they didn’t catch a ’roo all
day.
* * * *
“Tedlee”: I had occasion to turn-up
Chambers’ 20th Century Dictionary. It
describes sea-serpent as:
An enormous marine animal and serpentlike
form frequently seen and described by credu-
lous sailors, imaginative landsmen, and
common liars.
* * * *
“Spin”: The obvious reason why
different marsupials have different-shaped
pouches lies in their different modes of
living, feeding and progressing. But in
W.A. we have two animals which may
provide a different answer. The numbat,
a ratlike animal which gained the name
of ant-eater from early settlers, is a mar-
supial without a pouch. The young, born
naked and immature, become attached
to teats in a fold in the skin, and remain
there until they’re about 2in. long. By
then they’ve acquired a covering of hair
and can huddle in a nest. They don’t
seem to inconvenience Ma while they’re
on the teats, and they must have the
characteristic marsupial grip to hang on
w hile she’s running around looking for
termites or racing for the protection of a
hollow-log. The other animal isn’t a
marsupial: the echidna, or spiny ant-
eater, is a monotreme, and, like the platy-
pus, it’s an egg-laying mammal. During
the breeding-season the female develops
a skin-pouch which holds the egg when
it’s laid and until it hatches ; then, because
female .monotremes haven’t any teats to
speak of, and the kid’s as sharp as a thou-
sand needles, Ma pretty smartly dumps
“Say when!"
him where he’ll be safe, and comes back
at intervals to feed him —on a milky
secretion from where the teats would be
if she had them. It almost looks as
though the numbat is in the process of
losing what was once probably quite a
good pouch, while the echidna may be
just acquiring one.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: To “clean” his 12-gauge
single-bore my mate shoved the loaded
gun-barrel into a creek and pulled the
trigger. The resultant explosion twisted
the barrel into almost a right-angle
curve, beyond the repair-skill of any gun-
smith. Something similar happens when
water enters an auto.-cylinder and the
piston attempts to compact it on the
compression-stroke. I’ve seen con.-rods
after these efforts: they looked just like
that gun-barrel. The auto.-cylinder is
closed, the gun-barrel open? Yes. But
a shotgun-charge has high velocity, and
water is practically incompressible.
* * * *
“Wandana”: A South Australian
woman went fishing in the Hindmarsh
River. Her first cast carried new rod,
reel and nylon line into the stream.
Next morning her nephew went to the
river to look for the lost property. Div-
ing in, he found the line with its catch
still on it—on one hook a bicycle-wheel,
on the other a 21b. bream.
EASY LIVING
Up round the castellated outcrop, high
On the long ridge’s crest, rock-wallabies
Play, scamper in and out of cracks, orannies,
While wedgetail-eagles wheel against the sky.
Upon a shelf of rock, flat, sun-hot, dry,
The long, fat, brown rock-python, coiled at
dase,
Digests a hearty meal of one ol these,
While three hot days and three hot nights
pass by.
Later, descending, with discrimination,
He will select another from the lot,
Swallow, repeat the lengthy ingestation,
And so ad infinitum : in this spot
He occupies i'deal accommodation;
Meals at all hours, all free of charge, served
hot.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.
LOCOMOTIVE QUERIES
HOW do the drivers on double-header
trains work their locos, in unison?
It is simply experience, a thorough know-
ledge of the track, plus a system of
whistle-signals. The leading driver is in
charge of the train and has control of the
brake, but no control of the management
of the assisting engine, in the mechanical
sense. By using the whistle-code, any re-
quirements of train-running can be sig-
nalled back to the assisting driver, includ-
ing one that instructs the assisting driver
to take complete charge should the lead-
ing engine become defective.
* * * *
Are steam-locos, geared? No ; except
that the size of the driving-wheels deter-
mine the purpose of the loco. Over a
given distance a small driving-wheel
engine has a greater number of piston-
strokes than the larger-wheeled class, and
is thus more powerful. Inversely, a
given number of piston-strokes will send
a large-wheeled engine further than the
small-wheeler, making the former a
faster engine. A method exists, though,
to economise on steam as momentum
increases. This entails cutting-off the
steam-pressure at any point of the piston’s
stroke and exploiting the expansive quali-
ties of steam to force the piston the rest
of the way. Momentum, incidentally,
plays an important role in train-running.
It has been calculated that the momentum
gathered at 25 m.p.h. is capable of lifting
a rolling train 19ft. against the force of
gravity.
* * * *
How much coal does a fireman shovel
on a trip? This depends on the class of
coal, the type of train and the nature
of the gradients. On a heavy train over
steep grades a fireman could shovel six
to eight tons of medium-class coal during
an eight-hour trip. It depends also on
the ability of the fireman. Tests show
that a good fireman can evaporate 861 b.
of water for every pound of coal, against
the 261 b.-effort of a poor fireman.
Weather-conditions, driving-skill and the
state of the boiler come into the picture,
too.
* * * *
How much water does an engine-boiler
use on a trip? The average-sized engine-
boiler uses approximately lOOOgals. an
hour during heavy working. Again, it
depends on much the same conditions as
coal-consumption. The larger type of
loco, may require up to 14,000 gals. for
an eight-hour trip.
* * * *
How is an engine kept lubricated, con-
sidering the high temperature of steam
in the cylinder? The highest flash-point
lubricating-oil will ignite at 588 deg.
Fahr., but, although it is expected to
lubricate a cylinder at 800 deg. Fahr.,
the oil will not burn, for the very simple
reason that steam in the cylinder keeps
out the oxygen that is necessary for com-
bustion. Even when the throttle-valve is
.closed a wisp of steam is still kept in the
cylinder to ensure that no'oxygen comes
in contact with the high-temperature
lubricating-oil.
* $ *
Why is the steam-locomotive, in spite
of its enormous power, considered to be
inefficient? Because its fuel has to be
converted into energy (in the boiler)
separately from where the energy is con-
verted into work (in the cylinder), caus-
ing a tremendous wastage of fuel in
transferring the heat-energy from one
point to the other. This is borne out by
the fact that 2500 deg. Fahr. firebox-
heat is required to get 800 deg. Fahr.
steam in the cylinder, a 1700 deg. Fahr.
loss of what the fuel is capable of
producing. Radiation and exhaust-gases
account for most of this loss. In com-
parison, the efficiency of the internal-
combustion engine lies in the advantage
of being able to convert fuel into energy
and work in the same instant and at the
point where it is required —on top of
the piston-head. With no energy-trans-
mission involved, the internal-combustion
engine exploits the maximum potential
of its fuel.
* * * *
How does a steam-engine whistle work?
Actually the whistle is a miniature steam-
organ. Steam entering the whistle-casing
has its path impeded by five cavities, each
causing a different set of vibrations in
the steam as it escapes to the atmosphere.
These vibrations have their own distinct
musical-note; four of them form a
common chord, but the fifth is unrelated.
The fifth note, however, is the important
one, for it throws the whole combina-
tion into discord, thus creating the sound
of alarm, and clearly defining the sound
as an engine-whistle.
* * * *
Once I braced myself for a curly one
from an educated-looking bloke who
seemed very perplexed. Then he came out
with it: “Say, what are the toilet-facilities
on these things?” The answer is that the
biological machinery of an engineman is
generally trained in line with the distance-
range of his engine. Diesel-locos., thank
Heaven, have all mod. cons.
J. P. CARROLL.


Owners acclaim BRITISH BEDFORD
. . these trucks have rendered yeoman service, have proved entirely suitable ,
dependable, economic in initial outlay, low cost maintenance . . ?
says Mr. F. J. Cawte, Murray, Bridge, S.A.
Mr. Cawte’s words leave no doubt about
his satisfaction with Bedford. And they
are typical of the many testimonial
letters continually being received from
Australian Bedford owners. You can
read their actual reports in “In Their
Own Words”, a representative collection
of fifty letters in book form available for
the asking from your Bedford dealer.
See your Bedford dealer today and ask
him too, about Bedford’s better value
features and money-saving performance.
Compare the facts. Pound for pound,
feature for feature, you can’t buy better
than Bedford.
LOOK AT THE FACTS
BEDFORD’S YOUR BEST BUY
• • •
Three low-rewing 6 cyl. O.H.V.
engines match power to payload
throughout the range.
B.H.P. development from 76 to
114.6 ; maximum torque outputs
from 168.5 to 236 lb. ft.
10 CWT PANEL VAN
Ask your Dealer for details
of the latest addition to the
Bedford range—the new
Bedford 4 TON VAN, priced
at £BB5 plus tax.
Bedford chassis frames, transmission
and suspension are engineered for
each capacity and wheelbase.
Bedford offers worm and sector
steering, synchromesh gears, Lock-
heed hydraulic brakes.
A big 3-seater all-steel cab gives
more driver comfort, makes for
better handling.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL M OTORS-H OLDE N’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
iold-aad serviced fay Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
854/3«
BUILD YOUR BUSINESS ON BRITISH BEDFORD
0
0
CHECK BEDFORD’S PRICES FOR CHASSIS AND CAB
Model
15/18 cwt.
30 cwt.
2 tom
3 tom
4 tom
5 tom
5 tom
6/7 tons
6/7 tom
Wheelbase
119*
ii r
143'
143'
167'
167'
G.V.W.
2T. 18 cwt.
3T. 10 cwt
ST. 3 cwt
ST. 16 cwt
7T. 5 cwt
ST. 5 cwt
(Eaton 2-speed Rear Axle)
116' 10T. 6 cwt
156' 10T. 6 cwt
(All prices plus Sales Tax)
Price
£l,Oll
£1,057
£1,159
£1,191
£1,294
£1,320
£1,490
£1,580
£1,610
G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase arrangements are
available for your convenience.
Ask your Bedford dealer.
■jUr Bedford is backed by a nation-
wide service and parts organ-
isation.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
THE NEW TRENDS
TITfHEN Treasurer Fad d e n
announced, on March 22,
that the Loan Council had
approved loan issues by the Vic-
torian State Electricity Commis-
sion at 5| p.c., the Sydney
Water Board at p.c. and the
Brisbane City Council at 5f p.c.,
he tacitly acknowledged that the
new Commonwealth borrowing-
rate is now in the vicinity of the
open-market rate of 5 p. c. (In
the past the local-government
borrowing-rate has been about
7s. 6d. per cent, above the long-
term bond-rate.)
The new local-government
offerings mentioned will all in-
clude five-year debentures, while
the longest terms are 15 and
20 years.
The higher rate offered on the
Brisbane City Council loan was
not expected to set the pattern
for all local-government borrow-
ing, Sir Arthur Fadden said, but
had been approved because of
the peculiar circumstances con-
fronting the council.
The Treasurer added he felt
it was important to say that no
terms had yet been fixed for a
future Commonwealth borrow-
ing operation, nor was any such
operation being actively can-
vassed at the moment. No
announcement would be made
about the likely terms of a new
Commonwealth loan until such
an issue was imminent. The
decision would then be made in
the light of all the circumstances
of the time.
This would seem to support
the view that the Loan Council
may not approach the market
as regularly as formerly,
but may rely on the increased
revenue expected to be derived
from the higher sales-tax and
excise rates recently imposed by
the Federal Government in order
to pay for State public works.
The Commonwealth expects a
cash deficit of about £3O million
for the current financial year,
after offsetting the Budget sur-
plus against the borrowing short-
fall, and this it is hoped to meet
by means of the new indirect
taxation.
The new tax proposals have
been the substance of a good
deal of controversy during the
past week, especially on the
score of whether they are anti-
inflationary or otherwise.
Their, purpose and merit can
be summarised very briefly. If
we assume the present rate of
expenditure on State public
works to be necessary (and there
is little doubt that, however
badly managed State expendi-
tures may be, there is an almost
dangerous lag in the maintenance
and extension of essential public
works), then the Government
(and Loan Council) have two
courses open to them —to raise
the money largely by taxation or
largely by discounting Treasury-
bills, since public-loan support
has been quite inadequate to do
the job in recent years.
If the money is raised by taxa-
tion—even indirect taxation —it
will not increase the amount of
money in circulation, and may
possibly restrict circulation a
little. On the other hand, to
finance public works by discount-
ing Treasury-bills would directly
provoke inflation, as it would add
to the general money-supply, and
there is already an excess of
spending-money within the com-
munity.
The new taxes, however, must
be recognised as being only a
stopgap measure in the general
scheme to stabilise the economy.
The people of N.S.W. failed to
help in a more vital aspect of
this stabilisation when they
returned the Cahill Government
to power at the recent election.
Many of the actions of the Mc-
Girr and Cahill Governments in
N.S.W. have been wantonly
inflationary. In order to get
general stabilisation of the
national economy it seems that
there will have to be, some way
or another, full co-operation
between the States and the
Federal Government, as there
was during the depression, or,
else the Constitution will need
amending to give the Federal
Government wider industrial
powers.
In the end, the problem of
greater productivity, which is the
answer to our inflation problem,
becomes the responsibility of the
whole people. They need to be
told that fact, bluntly and fre-
quently, over the next twelve
months, notwithstanding that the
Federal Opposition and State
“Labor” Governments can be
expected to distort the picture
of the situation in the public
mind.
Perhaps the course of overseas
events will govern the timing and
the bluntness of any economic
announcement of national
moment.
Masonite Rights
'T'HE new par issue of 2,187,456
10s. ords. by Masonite Hold-
ings, Ltd., is worth watching.
The new shares are payable ss.
on application by April 23, a
call of 2s. 6d. by October 31
and another of 2s. 6d. by April
30, 1957.
In 1955 Masonite Holdings,
Ltd., bought the ords. and
deferreds of Masonite Corpora-
“ I'm praying for a fine day on September 29th, 1967.
I'd like to go fishing.”
tion, Ltd., on the basis of three
k> s . Holdings ords. for each £1
Corporation ord., and 45 10s.
Holdings ords. for each 10 Cor-
poration 2s. 6d. deferred.
(Masonite Corp. ord.-holders got
1,437,504 10s. Holdings ords.,
and deferred-holders got 749,952
Holdings ords.)
The present issue (one for one)
will double Masonite’s capital,
raising it to £2,187,456.
The new money is required to
finance the acquisition of the
co.’s Eildon (Vic.) project, where
it has bought the former dam-
construction township and pro-
poses to erect a hardboard
factory. Its present manufactur-
ing activities are confined to
Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.), and,
in spite of plant-additions, the
output of Masonite has been in-
sufficient to meet the demand.
Manufacturing operations
should begin at Eildon early in
1948, the board thinks. Mean-
while it is hoped to pay 10 p.c.
on the enlarged capital.
Steady Still
IVTEW taxes and new interest-
rates have left the level of
Australian sharemarkets fairly
steady. Increased sales-tax on
motor-cars had been expected for
several months, and, though the
big lift on beer-excise took some
by surprise, the sharemarket had
discounted brewery-shares in
advance of Mr. Menzies’s
speech. Since March 14 there
has been a fluctuation of only
3d. or 6d. in Tooth shares,
representing Australia’s biggest
brewery.
But though the market in
general maintains a fairly steady
tone, shocks continue to be the
order of the day in second-and
third-line ordinary shares.
Engineers, electrical concerns and
wholesalers, as well as the
always-Vulnerable textile-manu-
facturers, have not fared as well,
on the whole, as in past years,
As forecast on this page several
months ago, the interim-div. list
this year is not as healthy as it
was. More “misses” are showing
up. And it is being realised in
a growing number of instances
that stock which was dead in
1952 is still dead or over-
priced, if still on hand, and
that the day of reckoning can
no longer be deferred. Stock-
losses must now be faced, especi-
ally where banks are pressing for
a reduction of overdrafts.
The outlook is not all plain
sailing. The shares to buy are
still those in concerns which are
known to be well managed and
soundly financed, operating in
a field that is not overcrowded.
And a little waiting may yet
bring lower prices in the share-
market.
Newcastle Harbor
“Abdul Assiz”: For
many years past, Newcastle
Harbor has been a chronic suf-
ferer from dredge-trouble and
has enjoyed only one substantial
period of relief. That was from
March 5, 1952, to November 10
of the same year, when a con-
tract was wisely made, and then
foolishly relinquished, with a
Dutch organisation. The vessel
employed by this firm was a
suction - dredge, HAM 301,
which, by all American and
European standards of design,
was antiquated.
By good organisation and hard
work, however, a contract to
remove two-million tons of silt
from the harbor-bottom was ful-
filled at what seemed to
Newcastle to be a remarkable
speed. Actually, the tonnage
shifted was 2,069,359 tons,
and the job was done in 14
weeks less than the stipulated
period of 50 weeks.
As soon as the HAM 301 left
for Kwinana (W.A.), doldrums
again settled on the port, in spite
of the availability of the brand-
new drag-suction dredge Richard
Vowell and, a little later, of a
sister ship, the William J.
McKell.
It was not until late in 1954
that a glimmer of hope appeared
on the horizon, when, in a talk
given in Newcastle on November
26 by the assistant principal
engineer of the harbors and
Rivers Branch of the Public
Works Department of N.S.W.,
the following statements were
made:
Reclamation upstream to Ferry-
road is required as soon as possible
(Continued on next page)


lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON \\ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Good Reward
People lose money every day—in one month
there were 47 advertisements in one morn-
ing daily newspaper offering rewards for
the return of money lost in wallets, purses,
and hand-bags. The amounts lost varied
from “a large sum” and “five-pound notes” to
“four weeks’ holiday-pay”, and the rewards
offered ranged from “goocl” to “generous”.
The way to avoid losing “large sums”
of money is not to carry them, and you can
do this if you make a practice of paying by
cheque. A cheque account with the Bank
of New South Wales is simple, safe, and
convenient.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
★
Enquire at any branch of the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST AND LARGEST TRADING BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NWW SOUTH WALKS WITH LIMITTO LIABILITY)
A5549C
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/1 6/
6 months .18/6
3 months
9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Umpire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
to link up with road- and rail-access,
but the South Arm has to be deepened
to allow flotation for the drag-suction
dredges, and for this purpose, and
others, a cutter-suction dredge is
being constructed The future
orderly development of the port
[requires] co-ordinated development
of dredging, wharfage, rail-tracks,
cranes and roads leading to the wharf-
areas.
Backing to provide the facili-
ties necessary to undertake the
works indicated were promised
in February, 1952, by the then
Minister for Public Works, Mr.
J. J. Cahill, and the promises
have been reiterated both by
himself and his successor, Mr.
J. B. Renshaw.
The current position is that
the Richard Vowell is under
repair and out of action ; and
the William J. McKell, despite
its gubernatorial associations, has
only recently resumed operations
after several breakdowns. The
sand-bar dredge Neptune is tied
up at the Merryweather-street
wharf—itself a monument to pro-
crastination. The Juno and
Lismore are both at Port Kembla,
and the still-unchristened cutter-
suction dredge has orders to pro-
ceed there when its fitting-out has
been completed. This leaves only
the McKell and a solitary sand-
bar dredge to attempt to meet the
desperate needs of Newcastle
shipping.
It would appear, therefore, that
the promised £44 million scheme,
launched in 1952 for the im-
provement of the port of New-
castle, is further than ever from
implementation, and that both
the once-prosperous Hunter
Valley district and its sea-outlet
are doomed to lingering decay.
This state of affairs may be
attributed to divided control and
to “Labor”-assisted votes in the
Newcastle City Council.
Against this double front, the
efforts of the Newcastle Chamber
of Commerce are impotent.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
T'HESE are gloomy days. The
news from abroad is bad
and comment on home affairs,
especially on Government per-
formance, is searching and
captious.
Yet the despondency which
pervades the newspaper mast-
heads has given no more than
a temporary jolt to industrial
confidence. The Chancellor’s
measures have induced some
slackening of industrial activity,
chiefly in the Midlands, where
workers in the motor-trade are
on short time, have been laid off,
or, in a few instances, dismissed.
But the rise in unemployment
is not even infinitesimal. Other
employers are waiting, open-
handed. The transport, machine-
tool and electrical industries are
understaffed. And the motor-
manufactUrers, looking to the
future, are striving to conserve
their hands by uneconomical
short-time working.
In fact, boom conditions still
persist. Order-books are full and
delivery-dates far too pro-
tracted. Earnings, except for a
few isolated instances, have not
fallen, and the desirable mobility
of labor has been slight.
Nevertheless, the intensifica-
tion of the “squeeze” and the
new Chancellor’s sternness are
exerting a firmer grip on the
economy. The gold and dollar
reserves rose by £22 million in
February, after having slipped
away to the tune of some £3OO
million. And the Treasury is
giving signs of putting its house
in order by issuing a new £3OO-
- Exchequer stock, per-
haps as the first step towards
reducing the overblown liquidity
caused by its own short-term
bills —which at the end of Feb-
ruary amounted to an outstand-
ing £5lOO million and which
have increased by nearly £lOOO
million in four years.
Unemployment, in its literal
meaning of slackness of work,
has come to the Stock Exchange,
where business is depressed and
quiet. The indexes have touched
their lowest levels for, nearly two
years and the pre-Budget dis-
interest of the big investors
amounts almost to boycott. But
here, too, all is not lost. There
is no rush to Tmy dollar securities,
as might happen if devaluation
of the £ seemed inevitable.
Eden “On the Spot?”
The Prime Minister, beset as
he is with troubles, must often
wish to himself that he had the
natural armour of the hard-
boiled politician: a thick skin,
an insensitive bold front and a
cynical imperturbability when in
the middle of a dog-fight. He
possesses none of these require-
ments, and showed up very badly
in the debate on the Middle East.
The strain of his office was
evident; he was overcome by
nervousness and he got rattled.
Those who know him, however
slightly, would be disinclined to
put this down to the Glubb dis-
missal and all its frightening
potentialities. His whole attitude
to foreign affairs is based on
patient, meticulous preparation
for the best, with no surprises if
the worst happens and equal
patience in starting all over again.
But the fact remains that, as
a Prime Minister, his prestige
has declined steadily. He has not
yet given positive refutation of
the allegations against him for
dithering and lack of decision,
and his team is being spoken-
about as “shaky” or “weak”.
The times are hard, cruelly test-
ing and it may well'be that Sir
Anthony is a good deal more
resilient than general opinion
believes or than his detractors
would like.
It may be, too, that psycho-
logically, the strain will prove
too much for him. But what is
most unlikely is the prospect of
a revolt within the party, spring-
ing from the “Suez” or any other
group.
Political history shows that a
Conservative Prime Minister
does not enjoy the same security
of tenure as the leader of the
Labor party. If a leader has had
his day and seems reluctant to
acknowledge it, there are very
strong and persuasive influences
behind the scenes able to make
him see the light and withdraw
graciously. Remember Bonar
Law and Baldwin!
Double Changeabout
The Old Vic “Othello,” in
whiqh the two principal actors
interchange the two main parts,
is a bold and venturesome experi-
ment, probably without pre-
cedent as a feat of memory and
adaptability. (When Olivier and
Gielgud switched Romeo and
Mercut|o twenty years ago it was
after a month’s run ; they did
not change parts on alternate
nights; and, of course, the two
roles are not so closely inter-
related as Othello and Iago). The
experience is worthwhile, for it
enhances the Vic’s prestige as a
forcing-ground for actors of
promise and it is manifestly
rewarding because it stimulates
interest and, to no little degree,
thought.
There are, in fact, two distinct
productions, each with its own
characteristics and each involv-
ing intensive separate rehearsal,
not only of the principals but
also of Desdemona, Emilia and
Roderigo.
Richard Burton’s Othello is in-
telligent but rather ponderous ;
his voice is superb, especially
when quiet-spoken, but his
physical mannerisms amount
sometimes to slovenliness. Emo-
tionally, he is excellent, apart
from lay-preacher’s intoning, and
brings a powerful cumulative
effect to the rages. His lago
belies these insufficiencies, for
he tunes muscles to words,
becoming virile in action as well
as a well-spoken cynic whose
thoughts turn to evil by per-
fectly natural reasoning; and,
unlike his colleague, he makes
his points without vocal trickery.
John Neville, though vocally
more mannered and less capable,
is the more imaginative creator
and the better able to assume a
new skin that -is not merely a
change of costume. His slight
figure, helped by a suit of armour
and a military stiffness of bear-
ing, projects dignity, a fine intel-
lect and an inborn power of
command. On neither night does
the play’s emotive appeal often
transcend the detachment of
interest but Neville’s crisp defini-
tion gives his interpretation the
essential foundation of all
tragedy—that the fall is the more
terrible if from a height —but
he mars this effect by an amazing
composure and serenity after the
murder. His lago is a Cockney
gamin, risen through the ranks
by quickness of wits, who acts
on his reflexes. The part is too
long, too difficult and too con-
tradictory for this Artful Dod-
gery which provokes laughs in
some very wrong places.
The evening with Neville as
Othello is the superior one: the
parts are complementary
whereas the other way round
they are contradictory.
Michael Benthall’s production
is streamlined to serve the action
(sometimes the “affair cries haste’
so breathlessly as to scatter into
flurry) and there is little pretence
at verse-speaking. The support-
ing parts are realistic and well
done. Rosemary Harris is a
composed, gracious and mettle-
some Desdemona, Anthony
White a most human Cassio,
Richard Wordsworth a child-
like Roderigo and Wendy Hiller
a self-distinctive Emilia who
nevertheless elevates the closing
scene into high tragedy.


Experienced I Management of Agricultural and Pastoral Properties
The Trustees Executors & Agency
. ' / tOMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
TR28.35
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: j
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS: I
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, has a wide association with the administration of rural properties.
It provides efficient management, safeguards the interests of dependents,
and provides ample security for the performance of Trusts at a. fixed and
moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone of
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme;
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tecnico, Ltd.
A FTER the close of accounts, Pye, Ltd.,
of Cambridge (England), acquired
a majority-holding in Tecnico, Ltd. In
September, 1955, the English co. offered
to buy 50 p.c. of the Tecnico ords. at par
for cash. Subsequently “ordinary share-
holders agreed to sell to Pye a total num-
ber of ordinary shares acceptable to that
company.”
In addition to agreeing to make avail-
able adequate working-capital, Pye under-
took to place the maximum production-
load on the plant.
Tecnico and its three subsidiaries, after
an expansive run during the first six post-
war years, stmck trouble following the
credit-restrictions and other anti-inflation-
ary measures of 1951. It paid an interim
ord. div. of 3| p.c. during the first half
of 1951-52, since when ord. shareholders
have gone hungry.
Tecnico, Ltd., itself, makes rotary-cut
petrol-driven and electric lawn-mowers,
vacuum-cleaners, floor-polishers, sewing-
machine motors, tape-recorders and
ignition-coils and magnetos.
Bendix-Tecnico Pty., Ltd., turns out
generators, control-pahels, relays, etc., for
Canberra bombers and Sabre fighters and
trainers for the R.A.A.F. and R.A.N., as
well as spare-parts for other aircraft.
It also maintains an aircraft-servicing
organisation, and is Australian manufac-
turing-licensee, distributor and sales-
representative for the Bendix Aviation
Corp., U.S.A.
F. W. Davey and Co., Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne, makes D.C. motors, generators,
grinders, borne - lighting equipment,
pumps and welding-units.
Tecnico Electronics Pty., Ltd., of
Glebe, makes radio-receivers and radio-
gramophones, but of late its activities
have been carried on by the parent co.
During the 1953-54 term the parent
sold its £lOO,OOO-holding in United Capa-
citor Co. Pty., Ltd., to the British con-
trolling-interest at par. This co. makes
electrical condensers.
In the 1954-55 term, when the electri-
cal industry suffered a general setback,
the parent co. found its turnover inade-
quate to keep the plant running at an
economic level. Activities were exten-
sively reorganised and some lines discon-
tinued, manufacturing emphasis being
placed on the principal products. Sub-
stantial amounts of stocks and tooling
had to be written-off. After setting aside
£81,712 for depreciation and amortisa-
tion of plant, etc., the parent showed a
loss of £156,537 for the year. The sub-
sidiaries (mainly Bendix-Tecnico) earned
a net £44,697, reducing the consolidated
loss for the year to £111,840:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To re- Re-
June SO, Profit. , Dividends. serves, serves.*
Pref. Ord.
7$ & 5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1952.. 47,421 10,250 3fp.c.=23,625 13,546 131,587
Dess subsidiary’s reserves, £2,855 .. 128,732
Special amortisation provision, £42,500 86,232
1953.. 5,171 10,260 Nil 81,153
Tax overprovided, £5,715 .. .. 86,868
1954.. 13.688 Nil Nil 13,688 100,556
Tax overprovided, £165 .. .. 100,711
Loss. Deficit.
1955.. 111,840 Nil Nil 11,129
* Subject to intangibles, £78,643 at 3Q/6/’55.
For the second year the pref. div. was
missed, as well as the ord., and at June
30 there was a p. and 1. debit of £11,129,
in addition to intangibles of £78,643 —
made up of goodwill, patents, etc.,
£50,527, and excess cost of shares in sub-
sidiary over book-values, £28,116.
One of the co.’s problems in the elec-
trical industry’s growing difficulties has
been finance. Last term, because of
losses, additions of £49,575 to land and
buildings, £38,878 to plant and £91,476
to debtors, the co. leant on the Bank of
N.S.W. for an additional £143,961, and
creditors were owed £87,646 more at
June 30:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £185,009 £185,000 £185,000
Ord 630,000 630,000 630,000
Reserves .. .. 81,153 100,556
Outside interests .. 86,697 102,707 119,821
Overdraft . . .. 584,568 365.551 609,812
Creditors .. .. 141,435 188,576 276,222
Tax provision .. 107,516 40,572 57,584
Final div. .. 5,125
£1,821,494 £1,613,262 £1,778,439
Land, buildings .. 85,028 98,068 147,643
Plant, etc. .. 261,248 276,408 315,286
Shares .. .. 100,000
Stock .. .. 928,333 795,362 783,591
Debtors .. .. 276,659 270,168 361,644
Cash .. .. 91,583 94,613 80,503
Intangibles .. 78,643 78,643 78,643
Deficit .. .. 11,129
£1,821,494 £1,613,262 £1,778,439
In view of the heavy outside debt
(totalling £843,618, including tax-provis-
ion), the promise of Pye to provide addi-
tional working-capital is of obvious value
to Tecnico. Also of special interest is
Pye’s television activities —it is one of the
principal suppliers of television-transmis-
sion equipment to the 8.8. C., and has
entered the U.S. market. So far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, television is only now
in the process of being established, but
there should soon be a market for trans-
mission equipment. Pye also is a large
manufacturer of radios. Its research acti-
vities in its Cambridge laboratories should
be of value also to Tecnico.
Before Pye made its offer of purchase
at par, Tecnico shares fell as low as
10s. 9d. in Sydney during 1955. Since
Pye acquired control there have been sales
as high as 19s. But with the electrical
trades still in the doldrums, and with
sales-tax increases on radios and the like,
the market, has dropped its bid for
Tecnico ords. to 11s. 9d. At that price
they have a longish-term speculative in-
terest. By the end of the present term
there will be £30,750 due to the pref.
shareholders in div.-arrears, but once rea-
sonable profit-earning is established, that
should be no obstacle to ord. divs. Main
problem is to get the business back into
a sound earning position and to strengthen
its finances.
Rockman’s Showrooms, Ltd.
CTNCE the holding company was
formed in 1950 the development of
this manufacturing, retail and mail-order
organisation has been quite impressive.
From the 46 stores operating then the
number had grown to 79 in September
last, located in Victoria, New South
Wales, Queensland, South Australia and
at Launceston, Tasmania, and several
others were to follow soon afterwards.
The business was begun in Melbourne
in 1928 as Rockman’s Pty., Ltd., retail-
ing women’s clothing and drapery at
first, and later adding the manufacturing,
importing and mail-order activities,
which were operated by separate com-
panies.
When Rockman’s Showrooms took
over there were 21 proprietary concerns
handling the various sections of the
business with a total issued capital of
£37,222, which the holding co. paid
£450,000, in 900,000 10s. ordinary shares,
to acquire. The public was then offered
75,000 5 p.c. £1 prefs. and 350,000
ordinaries at par, which raised paid capi-
tal to £700,000. By exchanges of shares
and issues to shareholders, the latter all
at par and for cash, the figure had been
lifted to £1,310,000, including £175,000
of 5 p.c. pref. capital, at June 30 last. In
July the co. negotiated the purchase of
N.S.W.-registered retailer Archer and
Laing Holdings, Ltd., whose 11 stores in
Sydney and suburbs will strengthen
Rockman’s position in the main capital
cities. Shareholders were offered £1
cash and one Rockman’s 10s. share for
every eight ss. shares held, a total con-
sideration of £lOO,OOO in cash and
100,000 shares.
Along with this growth the character
of the business has also been widened,
goods at present handled ranging over
men’s, women’s and children’s clothing,
manchester, dress-materials and millinery.
A number of shops are conducted on
department-store lines.
Last year sales continued to rise, but,
because of heavier costs, the growth in
profits was at a slower rate than in
earlier years. After providing £48,684
(£27,620 in 1954) for depreciation, £9501
(£4151) for the amortisation of leases
and £121,135 (£106,168) for taxation, net
earnings were £196,918:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref.,. Ord. ~ serves, serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £1305 .. .. 27,819
1952.. 863 8750 8 p.c.= 64,400 35,718 63,532
Profit sale assets, £20,277 .. .. 83,809
1953.. 583 8750 10 p.c.= 80,500 59,333 143,142
Profit sale assets, £7O .. .. 143,212
To investment reserve, £BOOO .. 135,212
To preliminary exp. reserve, £19,764.. 115,448
1954.. 8750 125p.c.=113,000 65,332 180,780
Profit sale assets, etc., £4884 . . 185,664
To preliminary exp. reserve, £2500.. 183,164
1955.. 196.918 8750 125p.c.=133,625 64,543 237,707
* Subject to intangibles, £84,178 at 30/6/’55.
While an improvement on overall earn-
ings, the £9836 extra profit was not
enough to maintain the percentage which
earnings bore to average ordinary capital,
down from 19.7 p.c. in 1954 to p.c:,
but still above the figures for earlier
years, as compare 17.4 p.c. in 1953 and
12.4 p.c. in 1952. Ordinary dividend was
again p.c., which, with £8750 for the
pref. capital, left a surplus of £54,543 to
be carried forward in the co.’s accounts.
, Profit from the sale of fixed assets
added £4884 to reserves, which, at
balance-day, stood at £237,707 after
£2500 had been appropriated to pre-
liminary expenses reserve. This account,
together with investment and pre-
acquisition reserves, are set-off in the
consolidated accounts against the excess
of cost over the par values of shares in
subsidiary companies. At June 30, after
allowing for £51,084 reserves and profits
of the Cairns business of H. W. Mazlins
(1934) Pty., Ltd., acquired during the
year, the net balance on this item was
£6043. The remaining intangibles shown
are accounted for by goodwill at cost,
£48,921, and leasehold ingoings, £29,214
(up £10,236).
During the term £467,236 more was
spent on freehold properties than was
written-off, including the acquisition of
new premises and the enlargement and
reconstruction of existing stores. In his
report the chairman stressed the import-
ance to a successful retail-business of
owning store-freeholds. He also pointed
out that full benefit from this expendi-
ture will not be felt until the 1957 year.
To finance this and other investment in
fixed assets and carry £458,151 extra
stocks, the company borrowed another
£328,712 on mortgage, £198,176 on over-
draft and owed trade and other creditors
£262,587 more. A share-issue in June
also brought in £165,000:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £175.000 £175,000 £175,000
Ord 805,000 970,000 1,135,000
Reserves .. .. 115,532 178,867 237,706
Mortgage .. .. 285,675 414,425 743,137
Overdraft .. . . 157,691 246,167 444,343
Creditors . . .. 393,273 449,093 711,680
Tax provision .. 122,372 115,920 151,057
Final divs. .. 84,875 77,125 89,500
£2,139,418 £2,626,597 £3,687,423
Freeholds .. .. 618,391 803,207 1,270,443
Leaseholds . . 17,715 25,237 36,772
Fixtures, fittings.. 255,463 361,467 451,368
Shares . . . . 454 466 466
Stocks . . .. 976,563 1,154,275 1,612,426
Debtors .. .. 136,577 144,938 175,726
Cash, etc 54,879 67,081 56,044
Intangibles .. 79,376 69,926 84,178
£2,139,418 £2,626,597 £3,687,423
Net asset support for each of the co.’s
£1 prefs. was £8 7s. 3d., and for the 10s.
ordinaries 11s, 4d. at June 30. At
16s. the ords. return 7.7 p.c. on a
12| p.c. dividend. On the basis of a 15
p.c. div. the yield would be 9.3 p.c.
Return on the prefs. at 15s. is 6.6 p.c.
R. H. Gordon & Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
NOTWITHSTANDING the excellent
record of the company and the
healthy state of its finances, the share*
market currently prices the fully-paid 15s.
stock of R. H. Gordon at 275. 6d. (as
against 38s. a year ago and 335. 3d. the
year before), to return a longish 7.3 p.c.
on the reduced 131 p.c. dividend.
One of the first to enter the cash-order
business, this 52-year-old company does
most of its present-day trade in furniture,
furnishings, crockery and other household
goods. As an added source of revenue it
also provides customers with h.-p. credit-
facilities.
Since 1909 the co. has distributed to
shareholders £307,450 in bonus-shares,
and returned paid-up capital with a face-
value of £223,333 in cash. Dividends
averaged 18.7 p.c. for the 18 years to
1930, 12.6 p.c. for the following decade,
13.3 p.c. for the five years to 1945, 19.3
p.c. for the next five years, and, since
1950, 14.6 p.c.
The re-estimation on ’Change follows
the tighter credit-conditions which de-
veloped last year, and which brought
about a drop in earning-power. Despite
the introduction of £47,250 new capital,
which appears to have gone mainly to
reducing die outside debt rather than into
expansion of business, profit was down
£11,778 on the 1954 figure:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
& £ £ £
1946. 33,114 18$ p.c. = 26,675 1 . ...
To staff fund, £lOOO .. ( 6)439 203)747
1947.. 33,430 18$ p.c. = 26,676 ) fi „„ .
To staff fund, £lOOO .. J 6)766 209)602
1948.. 37,300 20 p.c.«. 29,100 ) ,
To staff fund, £l5OO ..j 6)700 216)202
1949.. 34,672 20 p.c. = 29,100 ) . „ „
To staff fund, £l5OO .. J 4)072 220)274
1960.. 43,226 20 p.c. = 29,100 7 jofl 232 400
To staff fund, £2OOO .. j 12,126 232,400
Asset-revaluation reserve, £47,250.. 279,650
Bonus-share issue, £47,250 .. 232,400
1951.. 36,918 16$p.c.= 32,313) nnfi
To staff fund, £2OOO .. J 2606 236)006
1962.. 25,444 13$ p.c. = 25,900 ) 000 n <to
To staff fund, £l5OO ..) 233,049
1953.. 38,096 16 p.c. = 29,138 ) R om nnfi
To staff fund, £2OOO ..$ 6)957 240,006
From tax-provision, £lO,OOO .. 250,006
From previous reserve, £2,806 .. ' 247,200
1954. . 43,608 15 p.c. = 29,138 l (1,970 259,170
To staff fund, £2,500 .. j
From previous reserve, £5,485 .. 253,685
1955.. 31,830 13$ p.c. = 27,475 ) 2,355 256,040
To staff fund, £2,000
On mean capital employed the £31,830
was equal to 15.4 p.c., compared with
22.4 p.c. in 1954, 19.6 p.c. 1953, 13.1
p.c. 1952 and 19 p.c. 1951. Dividend for
the year was 13| p.c., as against 15 p.c.
in the previous term, the bonus being
omitted. After debiting premises-main-
tenance and -improvement account with
£5485 cost of renovations, there was a
net reduction in of £3130 to
£256,040, which, however, was still
£14,540 more than share-capital.
Debt due to outsiders was £49,480 less
on balance-day. Book-debts were also
lighter (down £36,542), and stocks at
£121,940 were up £21,665, reflecting
lower turnover:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £194,250 £194,250 £241,500
Reserves .. 240,007 259,170 256,040
Sundry creditors* 92,921 93,585 79,195
Overdraft .. 39,966 84,012 48,922
Staff fund .. 17,728 18,813 18,811
Final div. .. 16,188 16,188 14,525
£601,060 £666,018 £658,993
Property and
plant, etc. .. 142,680 152,688 160,540
Stock .. . . 96,859 100,275 121,940
Hire agreements
and book debts 358,682 410,521 373,979
Shares, debentures, "V
etc 2,729 2,424 2,424
Cash, etc. .. 110 110 HO
£601,060 £666,018 £658,993
* Including tax provision.
The financial position is very sound and
the co. finished the term with its more-
or-less liquid surplus £45.728 stronger at
£334,576. Expressed as a ratio, there
{Continued on page 39)


SYDNEY SHOW
SUPPLEMENT
Notable Names and Noble Aims
The Showring’s Early Story
By M. H. ELLIS
THE history of Australian
agricultural show s—
characteristic phenomena
of the national life —
reaches down to the year after
the first-born white Australians
came of age ; a year three years
before the first organised ship-
ment of Australian primary
products was exported in the
Minstrel.
The embryo of the system was
formed almost immediately after
the arrival of that busy innova-
tor Governor Macquarie. It
made itself manifest on May
Day, 1810, when the Parra-
mattans, living in the agricul-
tural metropolis of the little
colony, held an unofficial fair.
There was no mention in the
report of it of any of the normal
features of English fairs and
Australian shows —the livestock
and the sales. But the “Gazette”
recorded that, during a happy
(and no doubt bibulous) day,
ladies “raced in sacks for a
cheese” and the population at
large indulged in “feats of
humor and fun so cqngenial to
the temper and to the spirit of
Englishmen.”
In October, 1810, Macquarie
moved the Sydney market. (It
had been founded by Bligh
officially, on the suggestion of
Governor King, in a part of
George-street North which
began at the lane beside the
present police-station and occu-
pied the street for some distance
towards Essex-street. The Old
Parade and part of the street
north of the jail in Essex-street
was used for the, same purpose
for a little while.) Macquarie
had, earlier in 1810, seized John
Blaxland’s rented cowyard and
some other property on the
present site of Queen Victoria
Markets, and had established
therein
a dwelling-house for the Clerk of the
Market and his assistants; a market-
house or store for the reception of
all kinds of grain, goods, merchandise
or other necessary articles; stalls
for the convenience of such persons
as may bring articles for sale there;
and pens for the accommodation of
such horned cattle, sheep or swine
as may be brought thither.
Amid the anguished yells of
Mr. Blaxland, who had felt that
after Bligh had ceased to
threaten him his property was
safe, his Excellency commanded
that “the Market shall be
removed to the New Place on
Thursday, October 25, and shall
continue to be held there in
future,” and he established
lengthy regulations for sales,
which Lord Bathurst, the
Colonial Secretary, a year or
so afterwards officially
approved.
This became the central
gathering-place for distribution
of beasts for, sale and for
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, who holds the remarkable
record of having been president of the R.A.S. from 1915
to 1941, and who is now vice-patron of the society.
(John Frith —of course —did the model.)
farmers; but it was too far
removed from the farming
centre. Parramatta was the
agricultural capital.
In 1811 the first of the great
Macquarie highways —the turn-
pike to Parramatta, on which
his galloping carriage could
make the 16-mile journey from
Sydney in an hour —was opened,
bringing the two towns closer
together. Hitherto the main
connection had been by water.
* * *
On Boxing Day, 1812, the
Governor took the next step
which led towards the founda-
tion of an Agricultural Society
and the Australian show-
system.
Having “duly considered and
being very fully convinced that
very material advantages would
result to the inhabitants of the
Colony, and particularly to the
settlers and others resident in
the neighborhood of Parra-
matta,” he decreed the holding
of a weekly market in that
town in the market-square near
St. John’s Church, and then
went a little further and gave
official authority and perman-
ence to a fair to be held twice
yearly:
His Excellency the Governor,
further deeming it a matter of great
importance to the interests of the
inhabitants in general that a public
• fair should be established, to take
place at certain periods, and to be
holden in a central and commodious
situation, for the sale of horses,
horned cattle, sheep, etc., hereby
gives further notice that two fairs
shall be holden annually for this
purpose, at the Market Place at
Parramatta, in the months of March
and October in each year; and that
the first fair shall be held on the
second Thursday of the month of
March next; and that the second
fair shall be held on the first Thurs-
day of the month of October next
each fair to be opened by ring
of bell at six-o’clock in the morning
and to be closed by ring of bell at
three-o’clock in the afternoon of
each fair-day.
Mr. Francis Oakes, a retired
missionary and chief constable
—the man who had set the
match to the events which
ended in the rebellion against
Bligh by arresting John
Macarthur —was appointed the
first marketkeeper and manager
of the market and fair.
New South Wales was at that
stage on the verge of one of the
worst droughts of all time. The
whole of the settled land was
bounded by the Nepean-
Hawkesbury River system on
one side, and by the coast on
the other, save for the little
enclave round the Hunter River
mouth at Newcastle.
The total number of souls in
the territory was under 11,000
including the military force and
1700-odd convicts and their
dependants.
The area under cultivation
was about 15,500 acres, with
6600 acres of fallow, to which
was added 127,000 acres of
pasturage. There were about
1600 horses, four donkeys, 198
bulls, 10,614 cows, 6900 oxen,
60,000 sheep, 2700 goats and
15,700 pigs.
The population of Sydney was
5210, of Parramatta 2571, of
the Hawkesbury 2544, and of
Newcastle 196.
When the first fair came to
be held in October, 1813, the
drought had struck, but a
notable pastoral event had taken
place in that the Macarthurs
had established the first flock-
register at Camden, marking the
beginning of organised effort to
breed Merino sheep.
* * e
The show was a great success.
Macquarie himself, in his
journal, recorded it as “the first
public fair held in the Colony
by regular authority,” and
remarked that it was “numer-
ously attended with a great show
of cattle.”
The little “Sydney Gazette”
noted that “the novelty of the
occurrence, this having been the
first fair ever held in New South
Wales, drew a vast concourse
of all ranks together—many out
of curiosity to view a scene
which tended so strongly to
remind them of their native
country, whilst the still greater
number assembled for the wise
purposes of buying and selling.”
The “Gazette” was happy that
the arrangements for securing
the cattle —a wild lot —were so
perfect that no accident marred
the day. Sales were made to “a
considerable amount.” Two
lucky individuals disposed of
cattle to the value of upwards of
£6OO. Prices up to £3O were
paid for individual animals. The
“shew of horses, sheep and pigs
was also very gratifying and the
sales seemed to keep pace with
those of the horned cattle.”
Everyone, in fact, agreed that
all had gone off well, and that
the choice of Parramatta as the
site of the event had been wise,
seeing that it was “centrically
situated between the cultivation
and pasture lands of Windsor,
Nepean, Richmond, Castlereagh,
Wilberforce, George’s River,
etc.” —these names constituting
a nearly-complete gazeteer of
geographical Australia at that
moment —and “the great mart of
Sydney.”
It was no wonder that “His
Excellency appeared much
gratified, as well by the regular
deportment of the people as by
the prospects held out from the
extensive sales, that the estab-
lishment would be attended with
the most beneficial consequences
to the country at large.”
It would be still two months
before Blaxland, Lawson and
Wentworth set out to cross the
Blue Mountains.
On the twice-a-year basis the
fair continued for about 20
years, increasing in popularity,
especially with the blacks, who
came in droves from the out-
lands in search of bounty.
The colony meanwhile made
great strides. Within eight years
it had been established beyond
doubt as a Merino-wool source
o Continued on next page )


by the great sale of Macarthur
fleeces in London in 1821.
It was at the time of the first
fair—March 8 that year —that
the first stage-coach ran to
Parramatta from Sydney, with
P. S. WILLS ALLEN; vice-
president; Sydney, Goldsbrough
Mort
“two reverend gentlemen and
two bank directors” as inside-
passengers, the Naval (Customs)
officer and three officers of the
48th Regiment outside, and the
bugle in the boot sounding the
whole way.
That night there was a
specially convivial gathering at
Walker’s Inn (The Red Cow),
the social gathering-place of the
fair’s elite in Parramatta, with
H. G. W HID DON; chairman,
horticultural committee; on
many other committees
rejoicing that “America had
been colonised much longer than
New South Wales before it
owned a stage-coach,” and that
“we Antipodeans had in this
got the start of the Columbian
hemisphere.”
* * *
With the emergence of the
colony from the stage in which
agriculture had represented
a sort of tooth-and-claw battle
with raw and thickly-timbered
land and the little-understood
seasons, the urgency of better
farming and stock-raising
T. B. MACFARLANE, vice-
president; leading Corriedale-
breeder
methods had by, this time, at
the end of Macquarie’s reign,
become a theme with authority.
Then, and for many years
afterwards, the bulk of the
smaller farmers worked on un-
stumped land, cultivating it
with the hoe between the stumps,
loading it with two crops a year,
putting no fertiliser into it save
the minor amount of potash
produced by the burning of the
original timber.
Animal-husbandry was primi-
tive and practised sparsely. Few
farms, even those with a dozen
working-animals or milch-cows,
had much benefit from animal-
manure. Only great magnates
like the Macarthurs, John Jami-
son, Edward Riley, Marsden,
Cox, the Blaxlands, perhaps, and
a few more of their kind thought
in terms of artificial grasses and
clovers. Interest in these
matters was now forced on the
colonists generally.
Gradually the soil of the
County of Cumberland had
been ravaged to the point at
which thousands of acres had
become barren and unfit for use,
and about the time of Commis-
sioner Bigge’s appearance on the
scene, in 1819, there was an
uprising of consciousness of the
need for general improvement
of farming-methods, of stock
and of farm-equipment.
Into Bigge’s mind —and into
that of W. C. Wentworth —
Macarthur put the thought
embodied in’the commissioner’s
report of school-farms to teach
agriculture. At the same time
there grew up the idea of an
Agricultural Society which
would import stock and grasses
for the general benefit, and
with this the idea of the reward
of successful farmers.
Again, at the base of these
ideas was John Macarthur, the
benefit from his great importa-
tions of plants in 1817 having
become obvious, and his sug-
gestions for “premiums” to
good farmers and the distribu-
tion of purebred and superior
sires by the authorities having
gripped the minds of authority.
* * *
Strangely enough, N. S. Wales
was robbed of the honor of
being first in the field with an
Agricultural Society by Van
Diemen’s Land, which published
the regulations for its society on
January 1, 1822. ButN. S. Wales
was not far behind.
Petitions were sent to
Governor Brisbane early in
1822 asking for permission to
establish a society in
N. S. Wales; and on July 15
that year a historic meeting was
held at the house of Mr.
Robertson, who seems to have
combined hospitality with the
jewellery-trade he carried on in
the old “Sydney Gazette” office
in Lower George-street. There
was a sound roll-up of colonists.
Officers were elected, and within
a week or two the list of their
names —in a column beside an
even longer list of absconded
convicts—was published in the
“Gazette.”
Sir John Jamison, the
Swedish Knight of Regentville,
the great magnate of the middle-
Nepean, was appointed presi-
dent. The list of vice-presidents
was headed by Mr. Justice Field,
friend of Charles Lamb and his
“distant correspondent,” a
pristine poet who obviously
could not have entered too hope-
fully upon the improvement of
“this barren wood,”
emerged from the first sinning,
When the ground was therefore curst.
Brigaded with him were the
Rev. Samuel Marsden, pioneer
of sheep and agriculture, whose
roots in Australian soil went
right back to 1794, and William
Cox, pioneer of the Spanish
sheep, a greater farmer, whose
opulent estates by the Hawkes-
bury needed the services of a
hundred convicts to make them
self-contained; the man who
had built the road across the
Blue Mountains. Also there
SAMUEL HORDERN, present presi-
dent; with, on this page and the next,
a few R.A.S. colleagues and associates.
was Dr. Townson, LL.D., the.
learned author of Travels in
Hungary, who had pioneered
Varroville upon the Nepean-
road, and who had been satisfied
with the results of the rebellion
against Bligh, in which he had
taken a leading part, because
through it he “got his cows.”
The first joint-secretaries were
G. T. Palmer, son of the original
Commissary of the Territory;
“Little Jack,” who had been
purser of the Sirius in the First
Fleet; and Alexander Berry,
pioneer of the Shoalhaven.
W. L. FESQ; councillor;
managing-director, wine-and-
spirits firm.
Messrs. Ed. Riley (a pioneer of
commerce and of wool) and
Walker (ancestor of the Lords
of Concord) were joint-
treasurers. '
The foundation-list of mem-
bers included John Palmer him-
self ; the Blaxlands ; John Oxley
and Throsby, the explorers;
John Harris, of the Second Fleet,
surgeon and owner of the
colony’s first deer-park and
guinea-fowls at Ultimo ; Archi-
bald Bell, who had sparked-off
the Bligh rebellion in command
of the guard on the “ever
memorable day of liberation” ;
William Lawson, explorer;
Howe, of Glenlee, one of the
real fathers of dairying-
improvement ; Robert Lowe, of
R. C. HANLON, registrar
Birling, on whose
lands Bold Jack
Donohoe received
the “fatal ball”;
John Thomas Camp-
bell, Macquarie’s
secretary and con-
fidant, real founder
and first president
of the Bank of New
South Wales, and
pioneer of the blood-
horse ; and Henry
Colden Antill, the
former Governor’s
aide de camp, who
had carried the
colors of the 73rd
Regiment into the
breach at Seringa-
patam on the day
when the power of
Tippoo Sahib was
crushed for ever, on
a May afternoon 23
years before. And
there were many
more whose names
are well known to
history.
The subscription
was fixed at five-
auineas, and a fund
was created to be built-
up in shares of £25 “for
the purpose Of introduc-
ing from the Mother
Country and elsewhere
a more important breed
of cattle, horses, sheep,
etc.” A vote of thanks
to Mr. Wollstonecraft
for “his assistance in
forwarding the present
association” was passed
with acclaim.
Eleven days later
(August 16, 1822), con-
sonant to a resolution,
the society held a
general meeting at
Charles Walker’s Red
Cow Inn at Parra-
matta to draft regu-
lations, and the day
was topped-off by a
sumptuous dinner at
which “eighty gentle-
men of the first rank
and opulence, sat down
at six-o’clock to a most
splendid dinner.”
Sir Thomas Bris-
bane was there in
state to hear the presi-
dent voice “the gratitude that
was due to His Excellency for
the anxiety expressed by him,
on his early arrival in the
Colony, for the formation of an
Agricultural Society,” and on
his generosity in promising, to
endow the society with a grant
of land for agricultural experi-
ments or depasturage of their
intended-to-be-imported stock,
and for arranging for them to
make use of the Government
press.
The Governor left at ten-
o’clock, before a tithe of the
fun had developed, delighted
with “the conviviality that had
prevailed throughout the even-
ing,” and “much pleased with
the magnificence of the enter-
tainment.”
The band of the 48th Regi-
ment stayed on to cheer the
drinking of the remainder of the
society’s Founding Fathers,
most of whom were not satisfied
that their undertaking was
firmly launched until the “wee
sma oors”—they “did not separ-
ate until three on Wednesday
morning.”
* * *
A prospectus was issued —
obviously, to anybody familiar
with his style, largely the work
of the erudite Field. It is an
interesting and historic essay on
the mainsprings of the move-
ment to found the society and
on its objectives.
It set out that “the greater part
of the land on this side of the
Hawkesbury has been....
cropped-out by bad husbandry
and the pasture consumed by
surcharge of cattle; so that
scientific farming and artificial
grasses have become absolutely
necessary for the continuing
supply of the victualling markets
of our towns, to which
unhappily Nature has deprived
us of navigable rivers from the
interior.”
Added to this, the document
continued, “the breeds of our
sheep and our horses have begun
to acquire an exportable value,
which can only be sustained by
constant renewal and skilful
selection and attention.” And it
was regretfully supposed that
the bountiful supply of convicts
which the fruitful years after
the return of Wellington’s
armies had made available as
cheap labor for New South
Wales could scarcely continue,
a fact which would tend to
“throw the colonists more and
more on their own resources”
.and render it imperative for
them to improve the output per
acre of their soil:
It becomes us therefore [the hardy
pioneers wrote] to provide for our-
selves; to make the most of the land
we have cleared; to improve our
fleeces, our horses and our milch
cattle; to look for new exports, to
i m P rove the present; to distil our
own grain, and to grow our own
tobacco; to listen to the official
report of the Navy Board upon the
superiority of New Zealand flax, and
upon the worth of some of our
native timber; to try whether we
can grow indigo or collect tannin ...
C. MINTER; vice-president; legal;
Aberdeen Angus stud.
These and many more which the
congregated information of an
Agricultural Society best can
suggest, are all important objects in
a colony like this
It is nothing to the prosperity of
a colony, that one or two individuals
possess highly improved cattle and
sheep, or can show a well-tilled field
or meadow of English grasses; the
plantation can only be said to
flourish when the means of obtaining
these advantages are placed within
the reach of all, and when a public
spirit of agricultural improvement
shall be implanted in the breast of
all.
Then was set out the basic
principle which has made show-
H. C. M SEE; vice-president;
chairman, agricultural committee.
society organisation in its
various forms throughout Aus-
tralia so vitally useful to ambi-
tion in primary industry:
Competition and award (call it
emulation or pride if you will) are
necessary (human nature teaches us)
to excite this spirit; and, when once
roused, personal interest and profit
will easily keep it alive. Who that
knows the benefits bestowed by agri-
culture does not warm at the thought
of the good this Society will produce
when, in its course (after blessing this
Colony), it extends its influence over
this new continent, this new world?
Connected with this Society are


The new 3 h.p. “Fanners’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
See Grazcos “FARMERS’ BOY” display on Anthony
Horderns’ Stand at Sydney Royal Show.
“FARMERS’ BOY
MAJOR”
UNIVERSAL UTILITY TRACTOR
ECONOMICAL MULTI - PURPOSE TRACTOR,
attachments include 17in. rotary hoe, twin rotary scythe
with 30in. cutting width, cutter-bar, cultivating frame,
furrower, etc. Quick and easy interchange of accessories.
For full particulars of “Farmers’ Boy Major” and “Farmers’ Boy
Series II,” please contact your nearest State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young St.,
Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Aust: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Pulteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: Buzacotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. B 2264.
W. Aus.: Western Machinery Co. Pty., Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers’ Boy Major
and Accessories.
NAME
ADDRESS
E. S. RLAYFAIR, vice-president,
chairman of two committees.
all the improvements in social life,
from the lowest labor of the hind,
to the most exquisite skill in the fine
arts To us is given by Providence,
with the nation to which we belong,
the high honor to civilise this new
world to give all the civil
blessings we enjoy to this rude,
uncultivated wilderness.
Adding that “there is no
Eden in Nature; all is from the
industry of man,” the society
rolled up its sleeves and set out
to encourage Australians to do
“what all nations have done
before us —collect from every
quarter what is adapted to our
soil and climate”; to “new
clothe our adopted country”;
to “hew down the useless gum
trees and plant the more useful
fruit trees of Europe” ; to “give ,
our meadows the rich pasture of
Britain” ; to import the fig and
the vine and the pleasant fruits
of southern Europe.
It should be noted that <at this
stage the population of the
Australian continental mainland
was still only 30,000 ; that of
these 12,400 were convicts —
41.1 per cent.; that the free
population was at least three-
quarters or more of convict-
origin and the bulk of the
remainder birds - of - passage,
civil and military.
Van Diemen’s Land owned
170,0 f 3 out of the 300,000 sheep
to which it was proposed by the
society to “give the Merino
fleece,” apart from improving
the exportable quality of the
Waler, already coveted in the
rich British settlements of India
and Batavia, and endowing the
hundred-thousand-head of Aus-
tralian horned cattle with “the
Hereford or Devon carcass or
the Suffolk udder.”
Work proceeded apace, with
more than 100 members and
ample subscribers to the cattle-
import fund. During the first
year before the first anniversary-
dinner on July 3, 1823, Mr.
Justice Field had taken over the
presidency, and the Macarthur
interests, represented by John
Macarthur’s nephew, Hannibal,
had become prominent. The
meeting, limbering-up, keenly
inspected samples of Italian
hemp and New Zealand flax and
began its plans for a building
and experimental - garden in
Parramatta.
Captain Piper brought his
band to the. dinner that year,
and also contributed some
specimens of that choice deli-
cacy the banana to the
menu, which was graced
as well by a fat sheep from
the Macarthurs and one
of Mr. Ranken’s excellent
cheeses and 16 kinds of
fruit grown by members.
Then all was ready for
the first Exhibition, which
was associated with the
fair held at Parramatta ok
October 2.
The “Gazette” showed
for almost the last time
an old-fashioned John
Bull heartiness in its re-
porting. A full half-
column of the prize-list
was generously spaced.
The doughty Mr. Sam-
uel Terry, a rising squire
who had been a convict-
laborer in earlier years,
won the piece of plate
valued at 40 spanish-dol-
lars (about £10) in the class
for three-year-old stallions,
though he “was not a member
of the Society.” Captain Piper’s
entry came second, and the
judges no doubt suffered warm
barracking, for “Mr. H. Mac-
arthur’s two-year-old colt Can-
ova seemed to be the public
favorite” in spite of their deci-
sions. All three animals had
been sired by Mr. Bayly’s Model
—the owner, general-manager
of the Bank of New South Wales,
and late of the N. S. Wales
Corps, had died earlier in the
year.
Hannibal Macarthur won the
prize for the best rams, and
Howe, of Glenlee, that for the
best ewes, both perhaps heaving
a sigh of relief that Hannibal’s
Uncle John, whose fleeces had
made their own look “brick-
layers’ hair” at the London
sales a couple of years before,
was not of a competitive turn of
mind —the stock of both of them
was bred from Camden Park’s
cast ewes. Oxley won a prize for
young rams. The stock-judges
—the first reco r d e d —were
William Cox, J. Campbell (not
J.T.) and George Palmer.
The most interesting section,
however (to modern eyes), was
not the stock-exhibit, but the
servant-exhibit!
Maurice Roche, shepherd to
John Oxley, was awarded a
SIR GRAHAM WAD DEL, vice-
president; grazing and business.
prize of 32-dollars for having
weaned 297 lambs from 316
ewes; Henry Ashford, Samuel
Marsden’s shepherd, was given
20-dollars for good conduct
during a service of, 16 years;
and James Dawson’s servant,
William Bull, had 12-dollars for
faithful service during 11 years.
Others had smaller gratuities
handed-out in person by the
president before he remarked on
the gloomy state of agriculture
and announced that 387 dogs’-
tails had been paid for and
destroyed, and Mr. Wollstone-
craft exhibited to those of the
112 members present a “model
of Beatson’s cultivator.”
* * *
By next year there had been
considerable advancement. It
was noticeable that, in self-
defence, the classes had been
restricted to colonial - bred
animals, and that pigs the
classes both won by Mr. Pye,
of the Windsor-road —had been
added to the animal-section,
along with awards for teams of
wdrking-horses (won by H.
Hathaway) and working-
bullocks (John Blaxland).
It was a really Australian
show in spirit and in content. It
marked the advent to popularity
of a local product which had
hitherto been regarded, in a
community in which men were
men, as most suitable for con-
sumption by old women and
weaklings. In short, at the 1824
Exhibition of the Agricultural
Society, Australian beer
(brewed by Grose, of Parra-
matta, it won the 10-dollar prize)
came into its own. For it was
“possessed of such strength that
many who drank it upon the
cask being tapped at both ends”
founcl their “betrayed reason
dethroned and madness and
folly reigning in its stead.”
The year, 1825, crowned the
success of the society finally as
the co-operative improver of the
colony. The society’s stock-
import committee, managed by
Marsden, Cox, Townson, Hanni-
bal Macarthur, John Oxley,
G. T. Palmer, Throsby and
Robert Lowe, had sent to
England £lOOO for the purchase
of cattle and sheep to improve
the local breeds. The commit-
tee asked the British Board of
Agriculture to supervise the
purchases, but the board
haughtily declined, and the
work devolved on “our worthy
Parliamentary friend Mr.
Buxton” (who was engaged
on the society’s behalf in
fighting for a repeal of the
import-duty on wool) “and
his friend Mr. Close.”
* * *
The shipment arrived on
August 11, 1825, in the ship
William Shand, which
brought the first news of the
separation of Van Diemen’s
Land from the Colony of
N. S. Wales. The cattle,
the first pure shorthorns to
come to the country, were
under the care of a Mr.
Merritt, whom Sir John
Jamison described pictur-
esquely as an “elderly ind-
vidual.” The weather had
been rough. They had lost
a valuable Durham bull
and cow and also the whole
of the increase dropped
during the voyage. Ten-head,
however, were mustered for sale
at a meeting called by the stock-
fund committee at thd home of
John Dixon (the owner of the
colony’s first steam-engine), near
where Sydney Trades Hall
stands today.
These cattle —five Durhams
and five Devon heifers —aver-
aged £56 2s. Sir John Jamison
bought a bull for £B5 and a
heifer for £5O, and J. T.
Campbell, Macquarie’s old
secretary, bought two heifers
for £53 and £4l respectively.
Thus, for an outlay of £2OO
the society had a £ross return
of over £560, and it had the
satisfaction of knowing that, in
conjunction with the Australian
Agricultural Company, founded
in 1824, it had established here
the purebred Shorthorn breed,
and the blood of the famous
Comet, the first beef-sire in the
world ever to sell for £lOOO.
The society’s shows continued
to be held in conjunction with
the Parramatta fairs each year
until 1833. In 1826, the society
linked itself to both the fairs,
from then onward judging the
pigs and horned cattle at the
autumn exhibition and sheep
and horses in October.
By 1834 the society ha*l
perished. It had received a
staggering blow irom the
drought of 1828-29 and, the
coup de grace from the chaos
of bankruptcy which marked
the depression of the first years
of the 1830’s.
The dinners and exhibitions
ceased ; the plants from the four
acres of experimental-garden by
Parramatta Park were sold.
For 10 years the organisation
did not exist; intermittent
attempts finally brought about
its revival as the Cumberland
Agricultural Society, which two
years later reverted to the old
name of Australian Agricultural
Society.
About 22 acres of land was
leased for a showground large
enough to hold ploughihg-
matches and other expansive
contests, and in 1870 the show
was moved from Parramatta to
Sydney, where it has remained
ever since, despite a feeble
attempt in 1880 to get it back
to its mother-city.
Next year it will have had a
century of continuous existence,
and it will be 135 years since the
first Exhibition was planned on a
competitive basis.
A Country Song
Schute, Bell, Badgery, Lumby,
How’s your dad and how’s your mum be?
What’s the news, oh, far from here
Under the blue sky burning clear
Where your beautiful business runs
Wild as a dingo, fresh as a brumby?>
Lumby, Badgery, Bell, Schute,
Pipe me a song, for I am mute,
Of red earth growing you hides and tallow,
Rivers wandering brown and shallow
And old grey gumtrees never dgad
While magpies play them like a flute.
Bell, Lumby, Schute, Badgery,
How’s the world in your menagerie? —
Hennessey’s stallion and Hogan’s bull,
Sheds at Yass crammed full with wool,
Heifers and vealers, rams and lambs,
From Nimmitabel to Wantabadgery.
Badgery, Schute, Lumby, Bell,
How’s the world? The world goes well.
The auctioneer, that merry man, *
Out in the sleet at Queanbeyan
Swigged his whisky neat from the bottle
And up went prices while buyers fell.
\
Schute, Bell, Badgery, Lumby,
Town’s all stone and stone so dumb be.
Past Wee Jasper I remember
The ewes drew out through the green
timber . . .
Oh what’s your price for all that country
Wild as a dingo, fresh as a brumby?
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART..


V?
■■
m
Nuffield Universal Tractor, equipped with hydraulically operated
front-end loader and 6-ft. dozer blade, shown clearing farm land.
The tractor illustrated is the Nuffield M 4 (kerosene-powered)
with 13.50 x 24 rear tyres fitted to heavy-duty cast wheel centres
(making wheel weights unnecessary).
This model tractor, costing only £1,005 (Capital City), in.
eludes the following standard equipment: Hydraulic lift, 3-point
p.t.o. belt pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter and horn, headlight,
agricultural rear light, tail and side lights, heat gauge, hour meter,
foot plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters.
Other tyre sizes available: 11 x 36R, 6.00 x 19F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x
16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x 18F; 11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies accordingly in price.)
Ask your Authorised Nuffield Dealer for full particulars of all
models and matched implements.
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement Division, Box
73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range and
“Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
| | Place Xln this square If for school project. ,0.8
NUFFIELD (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR
CORPORATION (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
s> o,oe^
BMC
r&i
NT.44.32
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
r
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
£l
m
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
Time for a Change?
Judging Standards
By JOHN BRIDGES
DESPITE the wealth in live-
stock, of which the ex-
hibits at the Easter Show
and at the other Royals
are the various shop-windows,
our standard of production
in both dairy- and beef-cattle
is well below that of some
other countries. So what we see
at the grand-parade should not
breed complacency. There is
still plenty of room for improve-
ment.
And, since the Royals are the
great pace-setters, the system of
judging calls for some critical
examination.
In the dairy-cattle sections the
awards to which most promin-
ence are given by both breeders
and press are those for the
champion cow and champion
bull la the respective breeds.
These are the most coveted
prizes, and the ones the stud-man
with an eye to the sale of his
young stock and his own repu a-
non as a breeder is naturally
anxious to win,
The animals are judged on
type—the appearance of the
individual as a good specimen
of its breed, and an assessment of
its value as a dairy-cow or as a
sire of dairy-cows, with no check
on actual production.
The system has served very
well in the past, and we owe a
lot to the competitive standards
set by successive Royal Shows,
But by switching the emphasis
from type to production human
error can be largely eliminated,
An improvement would be to
have a productiqn-and-type com-
petition on the lines of the
special-prize given at this year’s
Royal Easter Show for the
supreme champion dairy-cow.
This prize is similar to one given
at various N.S.W. shows earlier
in the year. A maximum of 100
points for type, and one point
for every 501 b. of milk above
12,0001 b., all milk being brought
to 4 per cent, fat-corrected by
the Gaines formula.
All female classes could be
judged on this basis, and the
ultimate champion would be the
best production-and-type cow of
the breed, or the cow most
capable of breeding high-pro-
ducers. With bulls, points could
be given for the bull’s daughter—
three or five daughters. This
would have the effect of only old
bulls being shown for champion-
ships, but there seems no way
of getting round this difficulty
when proved sires are selected.
The point is, all champions would
be proved sires.
Such a system would take a lot
of the gambling out of breeding,
and would also improve the
standard of management on the
farms. In order to win in the
show-ring, breeders would have
to get more milk from their
cows, recording would become
standard procedure with studs
(and spread by example to other
herds), and there would be more
emphasis on the science of feed-
ing—hence, more economical
feeding.
The spread of recording would
of itself be a considerable
advantage, as recording is the key
to profitable dairying.
Improvement on these lines in
the studs would quickly be
reflected in the industry. And
any change initiated by the
R.A.S. would automatically be
felt throughout the breed-
societies.
There is evidence of a change
already—the special-prize already
mentioned. But production-
prizes awarded at our shows are
secondary to the type-prizes. This
is not so in certain other
countries, notably Denmark,
where the production-prizes have
gea prestige. Denmark is also
| leading dairying country in
the world, with the highest aver-
™ Hr-production per beast,
Thus is not a coincidence. There
‘he show-ring is the national
proving-ground
one object of a show is to
demonstrate to the customer,
whether he be a stud- or qom-
mercial-breeder, which are the
best stock for him to buy, at
the sales* associated with the
show or at some later date, and
which are the best breeders
whose methods, adapted accord-
ing to his needs, he may follow,
And, linked with the last, to
show the young breeder how to
improve his stock. ,
It seems necessary on both
counts that the greatest promin-
ence should be given to those
breeders who have the highest-
producing stock. The change
in emphasis should not be too
difficult, as we have the informa-
tion on production from the
herd-improvement scheme.
Country shows are the proper
places for young stud-men to get
their experience in exhibiting,
and to test their stock against the
products of established studs,
Some of these show-societies give
special-prizes for exhibitors who
have won less than a certain
amount of prizemoney, and
these, with the junior breed-
classes (notably the A.I.S-.) do
a great amount of good. They
could be developed further, par-
Ocularly in connection with a
system of type-and-production
judging .-
With beef-cattfc thefe is much
the same problem, though it
is more difficult to overcome.
Judging is again on a type-
basis for the major awards, with
separate competitions for fat-
cattle and carcasses; but, as
with dairy-cattle, these very
valuable production-competi-
tions are of secondary import-
ance in popular opinion, and
have little relationship with the
champion animals.
One rarely sees a steer in the
hoof-and-carcass competition
which had been sired by a
champion bull. Yet these com-
petitions have demonstrated how
easily the eye of experts can
be deceived: contradictions be-
tween the opinion of a judge on
cattle on the hoof and the
opinion of a judge who sees the
same cattle when slaughtered,
when he can more accurately
assess the amount of meat, where
it is, and the texture and quality
of it.
The comparison must not be
pushed too hard. One can hardly
slaughter champion bulls to see
what their real merits as pro-
cessors of vegetation ipto beef
are. But the kind of feed show-
cattle eat is of considerable im-
portance.
The beef-animal that wins a
championship is—within the
range of breed-type and with
certain allowances made for
vjgor, masculinity or feminity
and so on —the bull or cow
which has put on the most beef
of the right kind in the quickest
time, and which, when it enters
the ripg, looks most capable of
transmitting these qualities to
its offspring.
In order to achieve this result,
particularly with bulls, the
breeder has to feed his animals
under what are virtually feed-
lot conditions. This gives the
highest weight/age ratio, and
that is the standard, broadly
speaking, by which beef-cattle
are judged in the show-ring.
This kind of breeding over gene-
rations of animals, here and in
the United Kingdom and in the
United States, has evolved strains
of beef-cattle ideally suited to
the conditions under which they
are bred.
But the commercial sires—the
sons and grandsons of these
animals —live and breed under
no such conditions. They, and
the steers and heifers they sire,
need digestive systems capable of
extracting a maximum of beef-
building nourishment frdm a diet
which contains a high percentage
of roughage : and that, too, in
quick time. If we are to com-
pete in world-markets with our
beef we need an early-maturing
type. So there can be no return
to the long - legged “good
travellers” beloved of cattlemen
a generation ago.
But we still need “good-doers.”
Here scientists, both nutrition-
experts'' and geneticists, have
given us a good deal of useful
information. It is established
that an animal capable of high
production under feed-lot con-
ditions may be a poor producer
in the paddock, and, too, that
a poor producer in the feed-lot
may do well in the paddock.
One remedy might be to
judge championships on the
progeny of the hull. A pen of
five or so steers, sired by each
bull which was otherwise quali-
fied as a championship candi-
date, judged both on the hoof
and as carcasses (on the Ruakura
carcass-appraisal system). And,
of course, the steers would have
to be fed under commercial con-
ditions.
Advantages would be a direct
relationship between feeding and
production, the highest awards
would go to proved sires (as well
as proving the production of
young sires), and although a bull
would be fairly old when he
became champion he could be
used in a normal manner until
that time ; also, by using artifi-
cial-insemination techniques,
much semen could be stored, to
be utilised on a grand scale if
the bull proved outstanding as a
sire, destroyed if he did not.
A good deal of conservatism
in the various sections of the
cattle-industry will have tp be
overcome before anything con-
structive can be done along the
lines I suggest. But, in the long
run, selection for production
rather than type will become the
primary consideration in both
the beef- and dairy-breeds. The
need for it is more pbvious in
the dairy-breeds, and it will be
easier to put into effect with
these.
The time has come for such
bodies as the R.A.S. to make a
further contribution in theii
already-great work by shaping
new standards in the light of
the latest scientific findings.


SERVING AUSTRALIA
R. M. WILLIAMS Phone ML 1191 Wire Longhorn Adelaid*
The Complete Bushman's Outfitter 5 PERCY STREET PROSPECT, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
' Longhorn Brand STOCKMEN’S TROUSERS that fit YOU!
Use our Special'Measure Form and have trousers Made to Measure —CHOOSE FROM OUR RANGE OF MATERIALS.
SATIN DRILL
A closely woven smooth finish heavy
duty drill designed to give relief from
grass seeds. Ideal for all summer
riding. Made from fully shrunk vat
dyed yarn. Available in khaki, navy
olue or whiter
PRICE
Plain £3/19/11
Strapped legs £4/ 5/10
Double seat and Strapped
legs £4/10/ 6
BEAVER BRAND MOLESKIN
Thick, warm moleskin, soft to wear
yet tough to tear, ideal for winter
riding and hard usage. Pre-shrunk.
Available in Grey, Fawn or White.
PRICE Grey Fawn & White
Plain . . . . £6/ 3/0 £5/12/6
Strapped legs £6/11/6 £6/ 1/0
Double seat &
Strapped legs £7/ 0/6 £6/10/0
INGOT COTTON VENETIAN
An all cotton gabardine finish
work cloth suitable for all rid-
ing, yard or truck work. This
cloth is dependable, washable
and wearable and has been
supplied by us to satisfied cus-
tomers for many years.
PRICE Plain £4/9/6. Strapped
legs £4/14/6. Double seat &
strapped legs £4/19/6.
YARRA FALLS GABARDINE
fine grade all wool cloth suitable for
work or dress wear. London shrunk
after weaving. An Australian cloth for
Australian conditions. Available in five
shades: 295 Fawn, 296 Brown, 297
Black, 301 Green, 454 Silver Green.
PRICE
Plain £6/15/0
Strapped legs . £7/10/0
Double seat and. Strapped
legs £B/ 5/0
• Yarra Falls all wool gabardine.
• Longhorn brand satin drills.
0 Ingot cotton Venetian.
• Beaver brand moleskins.
§ Longhorn brand 11 oz. sealskin
denim.
“LONGHORN” BRAND 11-OUNCE SEALSKIN JEANS (As Illustrated)
All the family can use these Jeans made in our ever-popular style from hard-wearing,
finely-woven l 1 oz. denim, especially produced to our specifications to give YOU the
'greatest possible wear. Double-sewn seams, fancy stitches, generous turn-up on cuffs,
patch pockets, copper rivets on all strain points. Fully shrunk by the RIGMEL process.
Price, 84/9. Made to measure. YOUTHS—Size 3 and below, priced at 78/3.
“LOtiGHORN” BRAND 11-OUNCE SEALSKIN RIDERS
This is a style being asked for a lot these days. Study these features— Narrow knees, wider
bottom, no fancy stitching, no rivets on hips—cross patch pockets in front, two hip pockets
with flaps; fob if required. Made from 1 1 oz. Sealskin denim, introduced to the Australian
market by us. Look for the “Longhorn” label.
Priced at 84/9. Strapped legs, 5/- extra. YOUTHS—Size 3 and below, priced at 78/3.
Let us make you an Boz. Denim Shirt . . . to match your Strides.
Prices S.M., M. and 0.5., 66/-. Large sizes, 7/6 extra. Made to measure, 10/6 extra.
SEALSKIN KEEPS OUT GRASS SEEDS
WE DOUBLE SEW OUR SEAMS FOR EXTRA STRENGTH
Ji
' VT R»q on al! above trousers - Flaps 1/- per pocket, 2nd hip pocket 2/0, 2nd fob pocket 1/3, Tunnel belt loops 2/6. A small
chS above ize St defends on how much extra material is used. STYLES. We provide two side or cross pockets ie
hin fnd fob Docket without flaps on all these trousers which can be had as an ordinary wide leg trousei or stockma
st?le with narrow We make with narrow legs unless you specify otherwise. Stockman cut trousers are available with
(a) plain legs, (to) Strapped legs, (c) Double seat and strapped legs, (d) Plain or normal turn-up cuffs. Specify style.
HM
■ H
m.
a
■■ -
m m
' '■
Give YOUR FEET a Treat...
Wear R. M. Williams High Quality Long Wearing Boots. They are
bench made, hand finished and lasted to fit YOUR FEET and give
them the comfort they deserve.
HIGH QUALITY LONG WEARING
COMFORTABLE BOOTS
No. 500
E/S STYLE
Screwed Sole.
Medium Toe.
DELIVERIES
We carry a large stock of
normal fittings. We can des-
patch within five days of receipt
of order. If bo>ot has to be made
up allow ten days from receipt
of your letter.
AVAIL-ABLE IN THESE TOE AND HEEL SHAPES
SQUARE
STITCHED
MEDIUM
WIDE
EXTRA WIDE
wr
SPIKE
m
)
CUBAN
LOW SHAPED FLAT
No. 580,
THE DURABUL BOOT
A waterproof work or dress
boot. Wide toe and flat
heel. Sewn soles with
storm-welt only. Wax
treated, water - proof-
ed upper. Made to
measure or stock
sizes.
PRICE
£4/19/3
' i
■
a;:.
M
HMUMBi
L v
H
s : i
m
No. 570
SANTA FE
STYLE
Square Tops
Stitched Toe
Square or
Round Toe
Screwed or
Welt Stiles
THESE FEATURES GIVE THESE ADVANTAGES
Best English silk elastic
Back seams taped, rubbed down and
double sewn with linen and nylon thread
One-piece selected leathers, specially
shaped upper, cbnsol lasted
Leather stiffeners
Wedged heel
Leather stubbed toe
Long heel, shaped to meet sole in correct
line
Steel shanks
Pliable, solid leather insoles
12 to 14 iron outsoles of super butt shoe
leather
Soft brass wire on screwed soles ..
Does not sag
Will not fall apart
Fits to the shape of the foot —no seams to
irritate feet
Retains heel shape
Allows even tread
Greater toe movement
Supports arches
Prevents collapse of instep f \
Easier treading
Longer wear
Does not hurt foot —Screws won’t rust
Add together these advantages and special features and you will find the complete answer to
your demand for high quality, long-wearing, comfortable boots at reasonable cost.
FOR THESE EXTRAS ON ALL BOOTS, ADD
Double Soles, 3/-. Welted Soles, 10/-.
Stitched Toes, 3/6. Steel, quarter
plates, 4/6. Tin Tips, 6d. Rubber
Heels (spike or cuban), 2/-. Rub-
ber Heels (Flat or Low Shaped),
3/10.
type description
500 YEARLING. A sturdy work boot, made in tan, brown or black
from selected unlined heavy willow hide. This is our standard boot
for use everywhere • • • • • •
510 KIP. Also for yard work, made in chrome tanned red kip or
natural colour, this leather is stuffed with fat. For use in wet
conditions » • .••••••
511 REVERSED KIP. A dry chrome leather finished in a light fawn
suede. For use in hot, sandy country • r
512 DESERT BOOT. Reversed kip with a crepe sole. Ideal for use in
gibber country. You’ll double your wear. Flat heels, elastic sides.
520 KANGAROO AND WALLABY. Bark tanned natural colour.
Lightweight for the man who doesn’t want a heavy work
boot. All natural oils and fats are retained in tanning process . .
521 KANGAROO AND WALLABY. Chrome tanned in nigger brown
or black. A lightweight dress boot for every occasion—leather
lined • •
530 CALF. Chrome tanned in tan, brown or black. A medium
weight dress boot. Leather lined—r-ideal for all show classes for
men, women and children
540 WHITE BUCKSKIN. A boot for rodeo riders. Catch the judge’s
eye while spurring » . • • • •
550 KID. A high-grade imported leather. We make our finest walking
out boots from this. A fully lined boot available in nigger brown,
black or tan, with riding or flat heels—ideal for all show classes
for men, women and children
560 ZEBU. An imported Scotch grain high quality leather. Makes up
beautifully into a boot for that special occasion or job. Storm welt
soles. The price indicates the quality
570 SANTA FE. A regular dress boot, made to measure, with a round
or square stitched toe, spike or cuban heels, light screwed sole:
Yearling £3/18/6; Kid
PRICE
£3/15/-
£3/15/-
£3/15/-
£4/12/6
£4/5/-
£4/5/-
£4/9/6
£4/-/-
£5/2/-
£6/4/6
£5/5/6


£
r:
B
/ty
>\
One wool grower
r'
£
t**i
r 57
1
£
(<
tetts another...
rv\
isAntfe
i se«4* b T "
l fetdass'^-
KXMIOOM
ovm
m
Wk
Jimac wool pool means outsorts and oddments bring true market
value. Jimac service saves shed costs. You bale direct from die board
—-saves handling—saves time. Jimac offers complete preparation of a
clip, including classing, piece picking and repacking. The attention
you receive is the best sort—personal attention.
Complete preparation of the clip for sale through your broker.
BRIDGLAND BROWN PTY. LTD.
174-190 Dowling St.i East Sydney, and Hanncl St., Wickham, Newcastle
BB 24-1
YOUR DIESEL
REGULAR SERVICE WILL
SAVE DEAD TIME
Pyrox Service Stations are
outside the heavy traffic area.
Drive in for service, or detach
your pumps and injectors and
send them to Pyrox. Get an
extra —Pyrox will
quote you.
PYROX
AND
BOSCH
*o*
m
K
FUEL INJECTION
EQUIPMENT
A full range of this equipment is always available.
Write or ’phone for free literature.
Auet. Sales and Service for BOBT. BOSCH and AMERICAN BOSCH.
PYROX INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD.
14-36 Queensberry St., Melbourne. FJ9121
18-20 Albion St., Sydney - - - BA 2271
Highly Praised at the Royal
Australia’s Good Wine
By A. CRITCHLEY
THE pet aversion of Mr.
i Colin Mackay, overseas
representative of the
Australian Wine Board, is
a “wine snob.”
In Mr. Mackay’s eyes these
snobs are Australians he some-
times encounters abroad who
criticise Australian wines just for
the reason that they are produced
in Australia. He would have
loved to have been at the tasting
which followed the judging of
wines prior to this present 1956
Sydney Royal—and to have had
some of the “wine snobs” with
him. And he’d have been
immensely pleased to have had
them listen to what some over-
seas experts had to say about
the products on show.
Those associated with Aus-
tralia’s big wine - industry—
economically it now ranks fourth
of our primary industries, with
an over-all capital value of
£70,000,000 —of course appre-
ciate praise from our own judges
and experts, but what they really
like to hear is the commendation
of experts from other countries.
And such experts spoke in glow-
ing terms of the quality and all-
round goodness of the delicate
sherries and dry red and white
table-wines judged just prior to
the Show.
More than once in England
Mr. Mackay has confounded the
critics by inviting them to sample
from masked bottles—tests in
which the critics have not only
been unable to pick French or
German table-wines from Aus-
tralian but have actually chosen
Australian wines as outstanding
French wines!
There was one particularly
notable occasion, which, inci-
dentally, got a great boost for
Australian brandy in the English
press. It happened through a
reference to Australian brandy in
the successful conjedy “Trial and
Error.” On their wedding-night
(in the play) Constance Cum-
mings, one of the principals, said
to Naunton Wayne, who also
had a leading role, that she
married him “because you tell
the truth and read ‘The Times’
and wear a bowler-hat and can
understand Picasso. And,” she
went on, “because you don’t
drink Australian brandy or don’t
talk about women at the club.”
An Australian who saw the
play shot a complaint in to Aus-
tralian High Commissioner Sir
Thomas White, who, aided and
abetted by Mackay, immediately
challenged the play’s principals
to a blindfold brandy-test at
Australia House.
In issuing the challenge Sir
Thomas took the opportunity to
say: “Both in wines and brandies
Australian products stand com-
parison with other countries, and,
altogether, represent an im-
portant Australian export trade,
particularly within the British
Commonwealth.”
In the test the principals and
the play’s author, Kenneth
Horne, not only failed to dis-
tinguish the French brandies
from the Australian but selected
Australian brandies as the best!
The offending line was deleted
forthwith.
The most patriotic wine-maker
or producer will not say that all
Australian wines are as good as
anw in the world. What they
claim, and overseas experts sup-
'port them, is that the fair-
average-quality of our wines—
that is, the commercial wines that
are sold over the counters or
served at the average restaurant
—is not equalled.
No Australian who knows his
wines would suggest for one
moment that Australia has wines
superior to the great chateau or
grand vins of France. But the
experts do claim that of their
type Australian wines are equal
to any. (“Of their type” must be
stressed, because the wines of
all countries naturally have dif-
ferent characteristics, brought
about by sun, soil and pro-
cessing.)
More and more Australians
are beginning to appreciate the
quality of Australian sherries
and table-wines. In 1939 Aus-
tralia consumed roughly about
3£ million gallons of wine of
all types. During the war-years
and up to 1952 there was m
tremendous increase in wine-con-
sumption, and at the beginning
of 1951 Australia was producing
13i million gallons of wine.
The fact that today the figure
has shrunk to between 8£ and 9
million gallons has an explana-
tion. The winemakers had no
illusions about the reason for the
amazing lift in wine-sales. They
knew that Australia had not, in
a few years, become a nation of
wine-drinkers ; they knew they
owed their sales to the fact that
both draught- and bottled-beer
was for many years often
unobtainable.
With beer in full-production
again, and with hotel licensees
advertising (for the first time in
many years) that they have kegs
of beer for sale, wine-sales
naturally declined. What the
present figure of 8| million is to
be compared with is that pre-
war figure of 3i million gallons.
Throw in the increase in the
country’s population, and it’s still
a notable rise.
Right now the men in charge
of Australia’s wine-industry are
planning and working to build-
up markets at home and abroad.
“We know we have an excellent
product, a product that has been
described with that adjective by
leading judges everywhere,” said
Mr. H. R. Haselgrove, president
of the Federal Viticultural
Council. “Now we have to see
that the people get to know that
fact.”
Mr. K. T. Hardy, chairman of
the Australian Wine Board, said
that, though the industry was
quite satisfied with the standard
of Australian wine being pro-
duced today, there was no
reason why still further improve-
ment could not be made. The
industry, he said, intended to do
all that it could to make even
better wine.
Both Ken Hardy and Ron
Haselgrove, and others with
them, believe the industry will
benefit from work being done
at Roseworthy Agriculture Col-
lege and the newly-formed Waite
Research School, both near
Adelaide.
The industry has gone a long
way since 1788, when the first
vine-cuttings were brought to
Australia by Captain Phillip and
his fleet.
The first vines to reach Aus-.
tralia came from South Africa,
and were planted in the vicinity
of Farm Cove, Sydney. H. E.
Laffer, in his book The Wine
Industry of Australia, suggests
that the site was not the best, and
there were other difficulties:
Early reports [says Laffer] stated
that the vines suffered from the hot
winds which burned the foliage.
From the description furnished, it is
obvious that the trouble was due,
not to hot winds, but to a fungoid
disease commonly called “black
spot” or “anthracnose.”
This disease has been recorded in
Europe fotr over two-thousand years,
and is of such a character that the
humidity of the Sydney Harbor site
would induce a very virulent develop-
ment. Although there are several
very serious fungoid diseases to be
found in European vineyards today,
with the exception of “anthracnose”
they were unknown there until intro-
duced from America in the latter half
of the 19th century.
It is little wonder, then, that early
reports on the Settlement gave little
prospect of successfully establishing
vineyards. The suffering conditions
of the vines would not permit the
fruit to ripen satisfactorily, and any
attempt to make such fruit into wine
would not be crowned with con-
spicuous success.
Grape-growng, however, was
well under way by 1791, when
Governor Phillip reported
that he had established three
acres of vineyard at Parramatta.
The first man to make a serious
attempt to establish a commercial
vineyard was that same John
Macarthur who first developed
the Merino sheep. Wine was pro-
duced in commercial quantities
at Camden Park, but operations
there were abandoned in 1820
for a more suitable site on land
sloping down to the Nepean
River.
Meantime, vineyards were
started in the Hunter Valley—
vineyards which were to produce
some of Australia’s greatest red
wines, regarded as equal to any.
Expansion was quick. Big
vineyards were started in the
Corowa and Albury districts of
N.S.W.; at Rutherglen in Vic-
toria.
In South Australia it was
found that the Barossa Valley
was ideal for the growing of
wine-grapes. It became the big-
gest grape producing area of Aus-
tralia. Today South Australia,
with its vineyards in that sunny
and fertile valley, in the Southern
District and along the Murray,
produces at least 80 per cent,
of Australia’s wine.
Worth noting that it is not
only in recent years that Aus-
tralia’s wines have made a name
for themselves. At the Vienna
Exhibition in 1873 numerous
prizes were secured by wines
from Australia, and “The Hour,”
an English publication of the
time, had this to say in an
editorial covering the wines of
11 countries which were
exhibited:
Perhaps the greatest triumph
achieved at Vienna was the success
of the youngest wine-producing
country, Australia, and that triumph
would have been greater but for the
negligence of an agent in charge
omitting to give the jury an oppor-
tunity of tasting twenty-three of the
samples from Victoria.
Five samples of Hermitage had
already been tasted, and four of the
five were adjudged worthy of being
placed in the first rank. It was all
the more regrettable, therefore,
eleven additional samples of the same
wine should have been, through the
carelessness of the agent, withdrawn
from the notice of the jury.
The impression made by the Aus-
tralian Hermitage on a specially
selected and singularly able tribunal


if Notes Prom The Cellar-Book of
LEO BURING, Doyen of The
Australian Wine Industry.
ggiA
'3&
L
I
Sfpr
&
■O3P
CT
£3
a
i
“First all-purpose
wine now national
favourite” says Leo Buring
“A wine accompaniment can make a success and
an occasion of any meal,” says Leo Buring.
“But hostesses often hesitate on what is a
rewarding adventure for fear of making a mistake
in selecting various wines for various courses.
“It is for this very reason that I developed an
all-purpose wine, the now-famous Rinegolde, a
wine which agreeably accompanies ALL foods.
“It is a light wine, low in alcoholic content,
with a unique bouquet and delicate flavour that
adds to the appreciation of every dish you serve.
Dining in or dining out, dine with Rinegolde.
“58 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE goes into every
wine I blend . . . each one matures no less than
three years in oaken casks . . . each is the finest
wine of its type produced in Australia today. Ask
for my Rinegolde, Hock, Claret,
Sherry, Tokay, Champagne, etc.
There is only one RINEGOLDE,
Australia’s National Table Wine
LEO BURING PTY. LTD.
25 5A GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
*
effect your n
at loss cost to
RmeMm
>
■ ■':' : •
apes**
-5
>ys*s*
❖ SPECIALISTS IN FARMERS' AND GRAZIERS' INSURANCE.
Lumley's are brokers. They act in your interests, effecting insurance
wherever terms are favourable to you. A Lumley's expert can show
you how to cut your insurance costs while maintaining your present
cover, or alternatively show you how to increase your protection
without ejetra cost,
LUMLEY’S ADVISORY SERVICE IS QUITE FREE
ftu&tiiitii
niiiati
■ Mi iIM>tMII
SSS!
g\./r****
EDWARD LDMLEY &.SONS (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
\ Insurance House, 263 George Street, Sydney.
Telephone B 0538.
Also at Newcastle, Lismore, Orange, Tamworth, Wollongong*
and in all capital cities .
was so extraordinary that we must
allow Mr. Vizetelly [apparently one
of the jury] to tell it in his own
words •
“So excellent indeed,” he says,
“were the samples of Hermitage, that
when a third specimen showed the
same striking affinity with the famous
wine of the Drome, which had
already been remarked in the previous
samples, the French experts seemed
struck with astonishment, and insisted
it was a fine French wine which had
been matured by a voyage to Aus-
tralia and back again to Europe that
was being offered them to taste.
“Assurances to the contrary were
at once given to them, but when a
fourth bottle exhibited the same high
qualities, they required a distinct
affirmation from the agent in charge,
of his conviction that the wines were
of genuine Australian growth, and
that no substitution was practised,
before they were willing to resume
their labors.”
Not a bad beginning for Aus-
tralia 83 years ago in open com-
petition with the world’s best
wines! And Australia’s wines
have improved since then.
What the industry is uow
doing all in its power to ensure
is that all our wines measure up
to standard. Of course, because
of soil and sun and more expert
knowledge by some wine-makers,
there will be outstanding wines
from some districts, but what is
aimed at is to make sure that
fair-average-quality is maintained
throughout Australia, with par-
ticular attention to production
of the best table-wines —that is,
the dry reds and whites.
At present s t u d e n ts of
oenology (the science of wine-
making) at Roseworthy Agri-
cultural College are concentrat-
ing on methods of improving the
quality of table-wines generally.
Roseworthy, about 20 miles from
the famous Barossa Valley, has
achieved world-wide recognition.
Once most students of wine-
making went abroad to further
their studies. Today they go to
Roseworthy; what is more,
students have come from as far
as Cyprus to learn at Rose-
worthy. The famous wine-areas
of France, Germany and
Italy were, of course, handier,
but they preferred the compact
and thorough course of Rose-
worthy Agricultural College.
Australia’s school for vig-
nerons began almost accidentally
about 19 years ago, when agri-
cultural-graduates at the college
found there were no jobs for
them, and to give them something
to do, college-chemist Alan
Hickenbotham began taking
some of them as cadets in his
laboratory, making full use, too,
of a small vineyard and winery
at the college.
Soon Hickenbotham’s cadets
were being sought by wineries in
the Barossa Valley, and now
some of Australia’s best wine-
makers are ex-students from
Roseworthy.
Both Roseworthy and the
Waite Research Institute are
experimenting in various districts
throughout Australia with vines
most suitable to different
soils and localities, and are
advising growers on the selection
of vines.
Surveys made on behalf of
the industry have shown that,
given the opportunity, most
people develop a liking for table-
wines with meals. Some points
that members of the industry are
trying to make are:
There is no rule which says
you must have a certain wine
with a certain dish. Those who
say you must are among the
“wine snobs.”
There is nothing wrong in
having a white wine with red
meat or red «wine with white
meat. It is purely a matter of
taste.
. You can get-by with two types
of glass for wine, a small glass
for sherry or port, and a tulip-
shaped stemmed glass for any of
the table-wines.
White wines should be served
well chilled but not frozen.
Served too cold, some of the
taste is killed.
Sparkling wines and cham-
pagne should be served as cold
as possible.
Red table-wines (burgundy
and claret) should be served
without being chilled.
Don’t throw away any wine
you may have left-over in a
bottle. Red and white table-
wines and sherry make marvel-
lous sauces or flavorings, and
there are hundreds of ways they
can be used in cooking.
A glass of port after a meal is
an excellent nightcap.
Wine-glasses should not -be
colored or engraved. They should
be perfectly plain. The wine
gives them color and life.
Makers of the Mechanism Era
The Machines
and the Men
By OLIVER FILTER
STNCF almost everything
animate at \ the Show
appears to have a pedigree
a yard wide and a mile
long one cannot help wonder-
the lineage of some
of S the machinery elhibits that
silentlv (or noisily) await the
farmer’s cheaue and thereafter,
h!s“ommand q s thereaUer ’
Frnm where did thev come?
From where did tney come/
And when? What breeds wer
crossed and what revolution
have they caused in farming.
In the absence of a machinery
studbook, the R.A.S. catalogues
in the society’s useful library
tell something of the general
story., The first catalogue avail-
able is for 1884—two years after
the Show moved from Prince
Alfred Park to its present site
at Moore Park. Compared
with the 2in.-thick volumes of
today, the 1884 catalogue is a
slim volume (83 pages), but, like
most old catalogues, it’s irresist-
ible, with pages of delightful
incidental stuff hiding whatever
paydirt you may be looking for.
The ads. set the times immedi-
ately. H. Mulliner and Co.,
Carriage and Harness Manu-
facturers, of Leamington, Eng-
land are pleased to announce
that * “the brougham which
Messrs. Mulliner built for
H.I.M. the Empress of Austria
weighed five-and-a-quarter
hundredweight and all their
carriages are in the same propor-
tion.” Mr. Wilkinson, of
Wilkinson, Williams and Co.,
Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street,
was “in daily attendance to
answer any questions about
Messrs. Mulliner’s vehicles.
Another advertiser, Edward
Miller, Tailor and University
Maker of 317 George-
offered a “waterproof
’ toga »—“the only garment
that B w jif keep the knees and
sa( £ c jj e anc j w hen opened
wm ensur( l a dry bed when
camp i n g ou t.” 1
But ma 'kers of farm-
machinery and coachbuilders
appear to have been the main
space . ta k er s among the 1884
ex hibitors and advertisers,
Ruston p r0 ctor and Co. offered
“threshing and finishing
mac hi nes specially designed for
the Colonies” and “portable
eng j nes ” . a. T. Pringle had a
cla g Sy j^ e in water-carts, and
Viliam Fleming, American
Merchant, of 22-24 Clarence-
street, advertised „ reapers and
mowers and twine - binding
harvesters.
Ploughs exhibited included
vineyard, one-horse, two-horse,
heavy-land, tank or dam, six-
furrow and steam; and there
was no apparent shortage of
harrows, hoes, cultivators,
rollers, crushers, drills, rakes,
mowing - machines, reapmg-
machines (manual and self-
delivery), strippers, harvesters
and string-binders, horse-gears,
chaffcutters (horse hand and
steam) or windmills,
There were no tyres among
the advertised wares of Perdnau
and Co., Indiarubber Merchants,
of 2-18 Erskme-street; under
“Telegraphy and all things
appertaining thereto” Charles
F. G. Kopsch exhibited “two
complete sets of telephones”;
there were “bicycles, velocipedes
and perambulators”; and, in
Class 451 (“Fire-engines, Extinc-
teurs, Pumps, Cranes, Gauges,
Registering Instruments”), Tozer
and Co,, of 29 Clarence-street,
showed an “Anchor Compressed
Air Fire Engine. £lO 10s.
each,” and A. T. Pringle
“L’Extincteur Fire Engine,”
price unstated,
So much for 1884—a quiet
reflection of the times, with
small evidence of the mechanical
revolutions that were going on.
It was the same through to
1886-87. Advertisers included
the printers, John Sands, at
their present address of 374
George-street, and Sandys, the
glass people, in the same street;
exhibitors included W. F.
{Continued on next page)


r**? *
m
m
mm
SIP
o
H ■■s.msud]
f t -
■
■m
i
o
ONE OF THESE WELDING PLANTS
WILL MEET YOUR FARM WELDING REQUIREMENTS
1. MODEL TAD. 7 "PILOT" ARC
WELDER
200 amp. portable A.C. welder featuring: in-built
“Pilot” Arc high frequency unit. Designed particu-
larly for general maintenance and construction
work, stainless steel and cast iron welding and
hardsurfacing. Current range: 12J to 200 amps.
For connection to 400-415 V sjngle phase supply or
two legs of 400-415 V three phase supply. The
TAD.I can also be supplied for connection to 230 V
single phase supply where the supply authorities
permit. PRICE, £143/15/-
2. MODEL TAD. 77 ARC WELDER
275 amp. portable D.C. welder for general mainten-
ance and construction, and in addition the welding
of stainless steel, bronze, cast iron, aluminium, etc.,
and for hardsurfacing. Further features are the
inclusion of a 32-volt outlet for use with 32 volt
hand tools, etc., and the provision of an extension
shaft permitting the motor to be used when not
welding or alternatively, permitting the generator
to be driven by a prime mover. Current Range:
30 to 275 amps.
For connection to 400-415 volt 3-phase supply.
PRICE, £2OO (D.O.E. Starter).
Star Delta Starter, £8 extra.
3. MODEL TAD. 36 PETROL
DRIVEN ARC WELDER
A portable petrol driven D.C. arc welder for use
where electric supply,is not available. The TAD. 36
differs from the TAD.I7 above only in the use of
a 4 cylinder “Wisconsin” air-cooled petrol engine
as prime mover in place of the 3 phase electric
motor of the TAD.I7.
The TAD. 36 can be supplied mounted on skids, or
HARDSURFACING
CONSTRUCTION
MAINTENANCE
as illustrated, including drawbar, axle and wheels. A further optional feature is an
automatic idling device which reduces the motor to idling speed when not actually
welding.
PRICE, as illustrated, £565; Skid Mounted, £482.
4. MODEL TAD. 16 WELDING GENERATOR
A direct current welding generator for connection to any suitable prime mover which
is capable of transmitting 15 B.H.P. The capacity and applications of the TAD.I6
are as stated for the TAD.I7. above.
PRICE, £175.
Prices for accessories available on application.
For further information on this range of equipment contact:
E.M.F. ELECTRIC COMPANY PTY. LTD.
PIONEERS OF ELECTRIC WELDING IN AUSTRALIA
Head Office: 991 RATHDOWN ST., NORTH CARLTON, VIC.
Distributors in all States
Hudson, with a model of a four-
room portable house, and
Selberberg and Co., of Market-
street, with collections of sewing-
machines, tools and general
implements, mangles and
musical instruments. There
were also William Holford, of
George-street, with a copper
steam washing-machine, and H.
Pitman, of New South Head-
road, with a “collection of
horse-shoes.”
Coachmakers were as busy as
the manufacturers of farm-
implements. Class 509 was for
“Carriages, viz.: Phaetons,
Landaus, Broughams, Sociables,
Wagonettes, Barouches, Gigs,
Dogcarts, Buggies, &c., &c., &c.”
William Vial and Son’s exhibits
included:
Bostic Dog Cart
Piano Box Buggy
Varnished Pony Cart
Dog Cart
Pntnam Sulky
Struck Oil Double-seated Buggy
Hyde Park Buggy
Bertie Hooded Phaeton
There were wire-barbing
machines; and Lysaght Bros,
and Co., of 31 O’Connell-street,
City, advertised “colonial-made
wirenetting.” Waugh and
Josephsons, of Brisbane-street,
exhibited a “dynamo shown in
connection with cream separator
as driving-power, price £3O” and
“The De Laval Separator Co.,
Stockholm, separating fresh
milk (immediately after milking)
from the cream. Price £47 55.”
* * *
Back in the 1888 catalogue
there’s an exhibit, by McLean
Bros, and Rigg, of McCormick’s
Harvesting Machine.
McCormick?
With the Christian-names of
Cyrus Hall he could have come
from only one country ; and it
wa§ in 1831, on his father’s farm,
near Steele’s Tavern, Virginia,
that he demonstrated to a
sceptical gathering the first
American reaper. Patents for
horse-drawn mowers or reapers
had been granted in Britain to
Joseph Boyce (1799), Henry
Ogle (1822), and the Rev.
Patrick Bell, of Scotland (1826);
but it was McCormick’s enter-
prise which was to open-up the
American farmlands.
By 1846 McCormick’s reaper
had spread far enough into the
Middle West to warrant
quantity-prbduction, and he
opened his first factory on the
banks of the Chicago River,
near Lake Michigan.
For a start, McCormick’s
reaper only cut the crop on to a
platform from which it was
raked by hand and left to be
tied by about eight workers
following the machine. In 1852
a self-rake was added to sweep
the grain from the platform;
ALANSON HARRIS,
1816-1894.
then, in 1858, the Marsh
brothers, of De Kalb, Illinois,
came up with the Marsh
harvester, which used a canvas
apron to deliver to two men
standing on the machine and
tying and throwing as fast as
they got the grain.
A wire-binder, invented by
Charles Withington, was
McCormick’s next acquisition
(in 1872), but it was never really
accepted by farmers, and was
soon to be superseded by the
twine-binder, produced in 1880
by a rival company, Deering,
and developed from the inven-
tions of John F. Appleby, an
English engineer who had
emigrated to America. McCor-
mick acquired the rights to
manufacture it, and his harvester
was virtually complete.
McCormick’s biggest rival was
the Deering Harvester Co., also
in Chicago, founded by William
Deering in 1869; but, as
happens often enough, competi-
tion led to combination, and in
1902 McCormick and Deering
joined with three smaller con-
cerns to form the International
Harvester Company of America,
which, one notes on returning
to the catalogues and sneaking a
glance ahead, exhibited “steam-
engines, chaffcutters, tractor-
engines, shearing - machines,
ploughs, harvesters, etc.,” in
1905.
* * *
In 1894, also, another signifi-
cant combination of names
appears in the exhibit of an
“assortment of garden-tools by
Massey-Harris,” two more
names from across the Pacific.
At the beginning of the 19th
century young Daniel Massey
crossed Lake Ontario from
Watertown, in New York State,
with his parents, to settle in the
newly - established British
American province of Upper
Canada. He grew up, “married,
hewed his first cabin out of the
virgin forest, sold squared
timbers at the lake-front, burned
ash and maple-trees to make
potash, sowed his wheat by
hand in stump-dotted clearings,
and cut his grain with the
cumbersome cradle.”
Massey prospered and, at 40,
had 1200 acres of cleared land
under cultivation, as well as
considerable timber - holdings.
His interest in implements led to
the setting-up of a small
machine-shop on his farm to
repair his own and neighbors’
implements. These implements
were painfully crude, and
samples of some of the first
DANIEL MASSEY,
1798-1856.
agricultural-machines imported
into Canada fascinated Massey
and the community around him.
Importing them was difficult and
costly, so, with the idea of
making them locally, Massey
bought a small foundry in
near-by Newcastle and began
production of ploughs, small
tools and farm-utensils, going on
to the manufacture and import-
ing of harrows, cultivators and
other implements.
Like the stories of McCor-
mick, Deer i n g and others,
that of Massey would fill a
book. His Newcastle Agri-
cultural Works flourished, and
in 1855, on Daniel’s retirement,
his son, Hart Almerrin Massey,
took over as sole proprietor. In
1852 the factory produced the
horse-drawn Ketchum mower —
the first mowing-machine to be
made in Canada and it
followed with the Combined
Hand Rake Reaper ; then on to
self-raking, and then to the
additions of the inventions of
Marsh and Appleby.
There were other develop*
ments and expansions all the
time, of course; and by the
1880’s the Massey concern, now
in Toronto, had captured almost
half of the Canadian market
and invaded the export-market.
Most of the other half of the
market had gone to their most
vigorous rival, A. Harris and
Son, 60 miles from Toronto, in
Brantford.
Alanson Harris, founder of
the company, was born in Upper
Canada in 1816, the son of a
Baptist minister, the Rev. John
Harris, who, at the time Massey
was setting-up his machine-shop
on his farm, .was, on another
pioneer farm about 100 miles to
the west, busily working on the
invention of a hay-rake. The
son, in partnership with his
father, built and operated a saw-
mill successfully for some years,
and then, in 1857, sold out and
bought a small foundry at
Beamsville near the head of
Lake Ontario.
Again the same story—
vigorous growth and competi-
tion leading inevitably to com-
bination. By 1890 farmers
found it difficult to choose
between Massey and Harris
products, and 1891 saw the
formation of Massey-Harris
Company, Ltd.
* * *
The R.A.S. catalogue shows
that in 1896 Exhibit No. 2859
was Massey-Harris’s reaper-and-
binder. Just under it was
Exhibit No. 2862: McKay, H.
Victor: “The Sunshine
Harvester.” And here there are
, parallels with the stories of
McCormick, Massey and Harris.
A farm-lad, Hugh Victor
McKay was born at Raywood,
Victoria, in 1865, and worked on
his father’s farm at Drummartin.
He took over the farm at 18, and
in the same year he invented and
completed the first version of his
harvester.
Twenty years earlier John
Ridley, of Adelaide, had com-
bined collecting-cart, stripping-
comb and revolving beaters to
produce his stripper, which
harvested and threshed the
grain. Separate winnowing was
still necessary, though, and
several inventors tried their
hands at incorporating a win-
nower with the stripper. But
it was young McKay, working
with crude equipment in a log-
and-bar.k smithy, who conceived
the machine that achieved
mechanical and commercial
success.
His first model was made with
bits and pieces of implements
and even kerosene-tins, and it
successfully stripped, threshed,
winnowed and bagged a few
acres of the crop that were left
standing for it.
At the beginning McKay
McCormick’s first American
reaper.
found it difficult to crack
through the traditional con-
servatism of farmers; but he
toured Victoria on a bicycle
trying to work-up enthusiasm
for his harvester, and by 1888
was able to build a factory at
Ballarat and see his machine
acknowledged at home and
abroad. In 1906 he transferred
the plant to within a few miles
of Melbourne, and there
founded Sunshine, today an
industrial city on its own.
In 1930 the McKay and
Massey - Harris organisations
amalgamated in Australia.
It would take many other
names and many other machines
to complete the story or
mechanised farming, but one o
the most significant figures
probably had little interest at
all in the land. „ . 0
Back in the 1901 R.A.S.


:
m
The Royal Easter
SHOW
and French Exhibition
23rd MARCH —3rd APRIL, 1956
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of the year. At the 1956 Royal Easter
Show you will see our finest stock on parade, cattle judging, wood-chopping,
primary and secondary industry exhibits and a feature-packed programme
of special ring events, including Trotting. Come to the 1956 Royal Easter
'Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS & 8 NIGHTS
catalogue—almost lost among
the predominating lists of
buggies, coaches, etc., a small
section headed “Auto-mobile
Buggy.”
The exhibitors included
Dixon, W. Gordon, with an
Auto-mobile Voiturette manu-
factured by De La Laye (prob-
ably De La Haye), Paris, to
carry three persons; Dunlop
Tyre Company,- of Australasia,
with a De Dion Voiturette ; the
Woods and Winter Auto-mobile
Company, of America; and
Wilhelm and Company’s Auto-
mobile Carriage (some earlier
reader of the catalogues has
written Renault Car in red ink
opposite this last entry).
The man who did most
towards making these strange
things possible was Gottleib
Daimler, born at Schorndorf,
Wurttemburg, in 1834 three
years after McCormick had
demonstrated his reaper.
While McCormick, Deering,
Massey and Harris were build-
ing their empires, the German
was acquiring his early engineer-
ing experience in Germany and
at Whitworth’s, in Manchester.
Back in Germany, at Cologne,
he assisted Dr. Otto in the
development /of his gas-engine,
became director of the factory
and concerned himself with the
main problem and greatest
restricting feature of the
internal-combustion engine.
Until about 1883 the gas and
heavy-oil engines even the
smallest of them were very
heavy, weighing about half-a-
ton per horsepower; by 1886
Daimler was well on the way
with a light petrol-motor weigh-
ing as little as 881 b. per horse-
power. The first Daimler
motor-cycle ran in 1886 and the
first Daimler car a year later.
It is unlikely that the early
adaptations of Daimler’s inven-
tion at the 1901 Show caused
the carriage-makers any worry,
but they were the forerunners
of developments which were to
wipe them out and, at the same
time, pull and power the brain-
children of McKay, McCormick,
Deering, Massey and. Harris into
the full era of mechanised
farming.
It didn’t come quickly. In
1902 there were six exhibitors
of Auto-mobile cars, five un-
named, and one, the “Phiz Car,”
shown by J. Phizackerly. There
was also a De Dion Auto-mobile
carriage, but bicycles, veloci-
pedes and perambulators occu-
pied much more space. By
HUGH VICTOR McKAY,
1865-1926.
1907 the General Motor Car
Co., Ltd., off 57 Pitt-street, were
advertising Renault, Reo,
F.1.A.T., Belsize and Sizaire-
Naudin. Next year they had
added Siddely to their list.
In the 1910 catalogue (a solid
volume by now) the General
Motor Car Co. listed two- and
four-cylinder Renaults, and the
International Harvester Co. of
America exhibited a 20-h.p.
gasoline tractor.
Models before 1912 included
a four-cylinder Vulcan Run-
about, a Panhard Tourer and a
Hallford Commercial Lorry.
Moulder Bros., “motor and
aeronautical engineers,” adver-
tised the Imperia, the Cole and
the T.A.C. “the machine [motor-
cycle] on which the rider keeps
clean.” In 1912 Brown and
Hellicar listed the Metz 22-h.p.
four-cylinder air-cooled run-
about, and McNeil, Alick and
Macintosh had the Napier,
Straker-Squire, Hurtu and Ley-
land. Larke Hoskins offered a
12-h.p. Torpedo, and Stanton
Cook the Wolseley.
By now the revolution in
power was well under way,
although Australian farmers
were cautious about tractors
until the early 1920’5. Then,
with increasing swiftness, the
smell of petrol, kerosene and
diesel fuel spread across the
farmlands.
* - , * *
What comes next? Elec-
tronics and automation are
established in industry, and
possibly Whittle and Ruther-
ford have already sown the
seeds of yet another revolution
in mechanised-farming.
If it seems incredible that the
shriek of the jet or the looming
atomic-mushroom should ever
be harnessed to agriculture, it
must have also seemed incred-
ible at the turn of the century
that Daimler’s little engine
would develop into the modern
mastodons that pull and power
the products of McKay, Massey,
Harris, McCormick, Deering
and the other pioneers.
Similarly, it must have seemed
beyond the bounds of all possi-
bility that, in the same little
engine, lay the beginnings of
the empires of General Motors,
Ford and the British Motor
Corporation; and the embryo
of such engines as the Rolls-
Royce Merlins which were to
power the Spitfires, Lancasters
and other aircraft that claimed
the skies a few years ago.
SHOW-TIME
SOCIAL SIDE
By PAULINE DEMPSEY
SHOW-TIME in Sydney has
an atmosphere all its own,
a liveliness of tempo un-
equalled even at Christmas.
The city sets out to enter-
tain its country friends, the
visitors are determined to
make the most of this special
time in town, and the Show
itself provides enough' social
events to keep those con-
nected with it more than busy.
The president, Mr. Sam
Hordern —whose family, by the
way, is one' of several that have
been associated with the Royal
Easter Show for three genera-
tions —welcomes the Governor-
General, Sir William Slim, on the
opening day, and will also be
host to the various presidents of
breed-societies, representatives of
pastoral organisations and
Government bodies, senior
members of the press, presidents
of sporting and commercial
bodies, and visiting members of
other agricultural societies at the
successive luncheons and parties
held in their honor at the Show-
ground. In addition, Mrs.
Hordern, who is hostess at these
functions, holds the special party
for the wives of the R.A.S. coun-
cillors.
Lady Berryman, wife of the
director, Sir Frank Berryman,
keeps open-house for official
visitors at the director’s resi-
dence.
As well, the various breed-
societies are holding their cock-
tail-parties, buffet-dinners and
luncheons at various high-spots
in the city—-Prince’s, Romano’s*
the Hotel Australia, the Pick-
wick, Windsor Gardens, and the
rest.
Then there are many big
private parties and dances. The
Country Matrons’ Ball (this year,
at Prince’s) organised by the
wives of graziers down for the
Show, is always notably for its
beautiful dressing. The “country
matrons” this year include Mrs.
Ken Amott, of Murrurrundi;
Mrs. Pat Arnott, Coolah;
Mrs. James Ashton, of Mandu-
rama; Mrs. Robert Ashton, of
Cargo ; Mrs. William Bishop, of
Scone ; Mrs. Frank Bragg, from
Aberdeen; Mrs. Frank Crane,
from Jerry’s Plains ; Mrs. Julian
Mackay, from Foster; Mrs.
Robert Mackay, from Dungog;
Mrs. Alex McLeod, from
Cassilis; Mrs. Douglas Munro,
from Merriwa; Mrs. Robert
Simson, of Quirindi; Mrs. Henry
White, of Coolah; Mrs. Peter
White, of Mudgee.
Also there are coming-out
parties for daughters of well-
known country people; the
big public dances in aid of
charity, such as the Town
and Country Ball, the Peter
Pan Kindergarten Ball and the
St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball;
and the cocktail-party held on
Easter Saturday by the Royal
Sydney Golf Club at Rose Bay,
when the president, Sir Norman
Gregg, greets 800 guests.
Another traditional function
is the cocktail - party the
Union Club holds on the
following Wednesday, when the
club’s marble halls and
mahogany staircase are decked
with flowers and a marquee is
erected in the charming city-
garden in Bligh-street. At this
party the club’s president, Mr.
(i Continued on next page)


{njoy all tfie advantages of
frofit Taming with
FERGUSON
In any season —proved your greatest Farming
Investment
For informative
literature, write or
phone your nearest
Ferguson Dealer or
British Farm Equip-
ment direct.
S9>
IZ
The Ferguson is a great deal more than a
tractor —it’s the power unit of a faster, more
efficient, more economical farming system.
By virtue of Ferguson’s exclusive 3-point
linkage, every implement becomes an
integral part of the tractor and can be
controlled without leaving your tractor seat.
ON-THE-FARM SERVICE. All Ferguson
Tractors are under warranty for 6 months.
You get free service inspections on your
own farm during this time. Afterwards,
FergUson’s prompt On-the-Farm Service is
available at any time.
• SEE THE
FERGUSON
RANGE AT
THE R-A-S
STAND 109
CLYDESDALE
STREET
BRITISH FARM EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD.
602-612 BOTANY ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY
Phone: MU 4021. Telegrams: "Britfarm" Sydney
857/8.3
BUILDINGS
IN EASY, STANDARDISED, INTERCHANGEABLE
STEEL BUILDING UNITS _
■■***.,
/
At the SHOW,
see our Stand,
No. 93, See Road,
with COMET
WINDMILLS.
w
MKAAIH4 BOA.RO 811
■root. jßYOftt
THE FAMOUS
STEEL-FRAIM
Ready-to-Erect
Shearing Sheds
This is only one of a number of shearing shed
layouts a team of handy men can erect econ-
omically and rapidly using the well-known
STEEL-FRAIM Standardised building units.
Everything is made easy to follow by painting
the various foundation, wall and roof members
distinctive colors—even the doors are complete
with locks and hinges ready for bolting.
If you want a larger shed, or a smaller shed, or
a different arrangement of pens,, shearing board
and wool room, let us show you how simple it
is with STEEL-FRAIM.
OTHER
STEEL-FRAIM
BUILDINGS
} SHEARERS' HUTS
} UTILITY SHEDS
} MACHINERY SHEDS
. COUNTRY COTTAGES
? AND HOMESTEADS
Plan what you want, how you want it—and add
extensions at any time —■ with Sidney Williams'
Standardised steel building units now being
designed, fabricated and erected by . . .
Bowas Constructions Ltd.
Williams Parade (off Constitution Road)
DULWICH HILL, N.S.W. LM 5204
D. B. Lewington, is host to 1000
guests.
New this year are the functions
linked with the million-pound
French Exhibition, the French
fashion-parades, display of
French tapestry and art-work at
the National Gallery, and the
French Fair at Prince’s.
Also, as if these were not suffi-
cient to keep the socially-minded
going, there are all the functions
associated with the Australian
Jockey Club’s autumn meeting at
Randwick, generally looked on
as the “country meeting.”
Many of those officially and
otherwise interested in the Show
are also interested in racing:
president Mr. Sam Hordern is a
member of the A.J.C. com-
mittee ; Mr. Strath Playfair,
another member of the A.J.C.
committee, is keenly interested in
R.A.S. affairs ; and four of the
10 members of this same com-
mittee, with their wives, are from
the country—the B. H. Crowleys,
of Merrywinebone; the T. L.
Baillieus, of Cassilis (yriiose son
Tim and daughter Leslie ride in
Show events); the F. W. Thomp-
sons, owners of the famous
Widden thoroughbred-stud at
Scone; the J. H. B. Carrs, of
Crookwell.
Important races are, of course,’
run at this meeting—the Sydney
Cup, Queen Elizabeth Stakes,
Adrian Knox Stakes, the St.
Leger —but that is not the only
reason why many down for the
Show feel they must not miss it.
There is the attraction of what
is recognised as the opening-
parade of winter-fashions.
Women mostly wear unosten-
tatious clothes to the Show —
tweeds or cottons (according to
the weather), flat-heeled shoes,
hats that stay on. It is at the
races that the new coats, suits,
dresses and hats for winter are
to be seen and a judgment njade
of the season’s trend.
For the various parties there
the dressing is particularly
elegant. Indeed, the feminine
racegoers, especially in the
members’-stand, provide as repre-
sentative a foretaste of what will
be worn during the coming
season as can be seen in Sydney.
Particularly on Easter Saturday
and on the following Wednesday
(Ladies’ Day) is the dressing
spectacular. Many go straight on
from these meetings to the cock-
tail-parties at the Royal Sydney
Golf Club and the Union Club.
Obviously, to anyone keeping
up with even a part of this whirl,
social life during Show-time is
really strenuous. When it is
all over, city life returns to
normal, the visitors return home,
the R.A.S. begins to prepare for
the Show of the following year,
and Sydney, the new season
launched, settles down to its
winter way of living.
Meantime, the Show, 1956, is
with us —for women, of course,
a busy-enough time on its own
account, whether their interest
lies merely in marshalling the
family through a day at the
Show, or whether they take an
active part in the ring, or by
exhibiting dogs, cats, flowers,
poultry, pigs, goats, cookery,
handicrafts, or what you will.
It is, however, on horseback
that women make their most
spectacular contribution to the
Show. Here they compete in as
many events as do the men;
and in some open classes, such
as the Olympic jumping, they are
frequently successful.
This Olympic jumping, first
introduced in 1952, is particularly
popular with spectators, pos-
sibly because it can be judged
with ease. It does not take an
expert’s eye to perceive that a
horse has refused a jump or has
knocked-down a hurdle. A well-
known woman to win in, this
class is Mrs. Rodney McMullan,
of Holbrook (N.S.W.), who was
formerly Miss Shirley Pye.
A well-dressed equestrienne is
about as pleasing a sight as one
could wish to see. Until recent
years Mrs. A. V. Pope, of
Frfnkston (Vic.), was a dis-
tinguished figure at the Show,
riding side-saddle in her long
habit wijh divided skirt. Others
to have ridden side-saddle as a
team are Judy Amory, Shirley
Pye and Anne Campbell (in
1948), and, later, Ruth Emery,
Marie Hoad and Mary and
Catherine Machattie.
Generally considered “correct”
for an equestrienne is an outfit
consisting of a dark coat with a
bowler-hat (it must be straight
on the forehead), light breeches,
long boots, a stock tied conserva-
tively. (flowing stocks and flow-
ing locks are equally frowned
upon) and yellow string-gloves,
with a plain stock-pin the only
jewellery. This is the choice of
Miss Anne Campbell, who was
judged best-dressed lady-rider
three years in succession, her
coat being navy-blue, and her
stock sometimes replaced by
collar-and-tie.
Mrs. Tony Pye, of Coonamble
(N.S.W.), who was Noreen
Moore, and who won the title
in 1955, also chooses the navy-
coat-and-bowler outfit.
The children’s events are
always popular, and certainly
some 50 pony-clubs competing
in the arena make a delightful
spectacle. Those with long asso-
ciation with the Show and long
memories can watch the new
generation when it appears for
the first time with a pony-club
and compare the little one’s
ability with her mother’s. The
president’s daughter Sarah (now
Mrs. Baillieu Myer) frequently
rode in the Show as a small girl
and later, after leaving school.
One of those with whom she
frequently competed was Gillian
Ashton, daughter of the Geoffrey
Ashtons; a member of the
famous polo-playing family.
Another young girl whose ability
is being watched with interest
is Margaret Mackay, daughter of
well-known horsewoman Mrs.
Ken Mackay, of Dungog.
In another part of the Show
in which women’s interests pre-
dominate —the handcraft sec-
tion—it is interesting to note
the increasing number of entries
by men. Embroidery, cookery,
artificial - flowers, leatherwork,
wickerwork, tapestry and wool-
rugs are all exhibited by men,
many of them disabled ex-
servicemen who have taken
up the work for therapeutic
reasons ; they have piade some
splendid contributions to the
exhibition.
Also, since 1954 there Have
been special sections for the
blind, who last year made 171
items for exhibition and have in-
creased the number this year to
214. Blind exhibitors have also
entered into open sections with
success, Mr. John Eastman carry-
ing off first-prize for wool-rugs
from all comers.
So popular has the handcrafts
section now become that entries
number nearly 3000 and the
crowds wishing to see the
exhibits have to be let in in
batches! Entries are there from
all over Australia and some
exhibitors are definitely ardent.
One woman this year has made
23 cookery items, and another
18 jams.
And then —the knitting. The
marvel of garments made on
needles sized 20 and 22 aston-
ishes most of us, who think that
sizes 12 and 14 needles make fine
knitting. In some sections, such
as the Fairisle pullovers —where
Mrs. J. Holland won with
each of her entries five years
in successio n —the work-
manship of particular women is
looked for year after year.
And the cooks! The fancy
iced-cakes and wedding-cakes —
this year they are in the arts-
and-crafts section —always have
crowds three-deep around them,
some getting ideas from the
modelled baskets of flowers, the
cottages, cabbages and cathedrals
that they represent; most merely
gazing in wonderment that such
things can be.


TIE WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
ll- per 1000
As fast as you can squeeze its
easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
THIS EASY WAY-
(2S yds* per minute)
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
H G a U ge cement-adhered staples into sturdy in. rings, which are automati-
cally fed into the jaws. There is no wastage—the job is quick, neat and strong.
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by jGerrard Engineering Pty , Ltd., 18 Ireland St., W. MELB.
LYSAGHT
UTILITY i
‘73
PRICE F.O.R.
NEWCASTLE
i
r
Makes an ideal storage shed or workshop
roomy enough to accommodate a car
or tractor. .Easily assembled by any handy
man! Basic unit includes . . .
• Predrilled support angles and bolts.
9 Wall and roof sheets of curved design,
eliminating need for framework.
• Back wall sheets and flashing.
SPECIFICATION:
Length, 20 ft. Width' 10 ft.
Minimum Head Room, 6ft. 6ins.
Maximum Head Room, 8 ft.
EXTRAS AVAILABLE—ALL PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Front wall (to take
double doors), £l3.
Double Doors
(8' x 6'6" opening),
£ll/10/.
Barge boards, £3/10/-.
Side Door
(5'2" x I'9" opening),
£4.
Window frame
without glass (approx.
3' x 2'), £3/15/-.
Write for further information and Agents' Names to: —
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght I Australia! Pty. Ltd. in
all Capital Cities.
Store OATS now-
while prices are low!
r %
f-VSAGHi
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
I;
AND AUGERS
SILOS
• Heavy gauge galvanised sheets
• Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
• Steel earth rings and loading plat-
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
9 Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
0 Segmented con-
struction for easy
assembly
• Unique vertical
filling avoids
congestion
• Vertical sets
complete with
wall brackets,
chute tubes,
etc.
AUGERS. Priced as low
as £lll. Popular type
for standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided),
£I3S.
WRITE for further in-
formation and Agents'
Names to Dept. >.
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysagbt l Australia I Pty. Ltd. In
all Capital Cities.
SI 5a
Important in the Show Picture
JUNIOR FARMERS
By W. TEARLE
ANYONE attending this
year’s Royal Easter Show
may notice numbers of
young men and women
grouped around certain exhibits
—the Junior Farmers: 54 boys
and 23 girls from all States of
the Commonwealth, and from
New Zealand and the U.S.A.
At Sydney Royal, as at other
shows, these Junior Farmers
get the opportunity to see what
is going on in stock and agri-
culture “behind the scenes.”
The history of the Junior
Farmer movement in New South
Wales (as in the other States)
is largely one of the efforts of
individuals who sacrifice a
great deal of time and energy
to promote scientific interest in
agriculture in young people.
Definitely a job for enthu-
siasts.
It began in the early ’twenties,
when young men returning from
the First World War were less
satisfied with traditional methods
of farming than their fathers
had been. In that period of
transition there were many ex-
periments and many failures,
but this particular one, based
on the sound premise of educa-
ting the youth of the land in
the best methods of reaping the
rewards of the land, has been
successful.
Under the leadership of the
late Ernest Breakwell [whose
son, E. J. Breakwell, M.Ag.Sc.,
writes elsewhere in this issue of
The Bulletin] a Junior Farmers’
Club organisation was estab-
lished in 1928. The first club
officially registered was the one
at Glen Innes (N.S.W.). With
the powerful assistance of J. W.
Webb in the south and G. M.
Blacklock in the north (each of
them, at a conservative estimate,
worth about a brigade of
ordinary men as organising-
enthusiasts) the idea spread. Be-
fore long there were more clubs
than Webb and Blacklock could
handle, and other supervisors
had to be appointed.
The method of organising
these pioneer clubs was a simple
one and, with few variations, it
has persisted down to the present
time. The basic unit is the club-
member, who undertakes to carry
out a “project” on the home-
property. Membership is open
to all boys and girls between
the ages of 10 and 25 who are
prepared to follow an approved
project, and to keep accurate
records of it.
There are some 34 State-wide
projects, and seven or eight
“local” ones, to cater for the)
tastes and opportunities of
youngsters in every part of the
State. They vary from the
growing of a crop of wheat,
oats or maize, to the manage-
ment of improved-pastures, soil-
conservation and animal-hus-
bandry.
For each project the member
is supplied with a leaflet which
outlines the minimum require-
ments and methods to be fol-
lowed, and gives some advice on
judging, together with a set of
questions which indicate what
the young farmer needs to know.
Guidance is given on technical
matters, and on sources of tech-
nical information.
Many a youngster has had a
thirst for information and experi-
ment awakened by a Junior
Farmer project which has led
him to achieve distinction in
practical or theoretical fields —
and, most important, to a
realisation of the interpenetra-
tion of theory and practice in
agriculture.
Each club (comprising 10 or
more members) has an advisory-
committee of adults, who are
prepared to co-operate with a
supervisor. It is the job of the
supervisor and the advisory-
committee to give whatever
technical guidance is necessary
and to arrange for expert tech-
nical advice when needed—
such as that of the local stock-
inspector, agronomist or soil-
conservation officer, or the more
specialised advice of experts
from appropriate Government
departments or from univers-
ities.
In practice, this often boils-
down to a combination of the
best practical brains in the dis-
trict being readily available, with
specialist talent in reserve.
Also important, from the
point of view of training for
citizenship, are the various func-
tions which develop not only
technical knowledge but also
ease and poise in social rela-
tions: an excellent training in
leadership. Members of Junior
Farmers'* Clubs are encouraged
to run their oWn affairs. An
older person (preferably one
f who has passed through the
ranks of the organisation) may
be club-leader. Any club may
have a boy- and a girl-leader,
who act as liaison-officers be-
tween club, advisory-committee
and supervisor.
Competitions are organised in
many projects, first at the club
level, then through districts and
areas to State levels. Substan-
tial trophies are awarded at the
State level, annually.
Inter-club visits are popular.
Debates, quiz - competitions,
sporting contests, annual ban-
quets and socials, build up esprit
de corps, widen knowledge and
understanding, and provide a'
valuable social background.
Club-meetings, at which mem-
bers receive a training in meet-
ing-procedure and public:speak-
ing, are held regularly. Here,
too, a varied programme gives
a wider scope to education.
Visiting speakers, specialists,
give talks; dances, film-even-
ings, small competitions, help
to keep interest alive.
Most clubs have at least one
field-day during the year. There
is specific instruction, judging.
And from these days, often,
teams are selected to compete
against other teams at district
field-days.
A district council, comprising
representatives from advisory-
committees of clubs concerned,
usually organise a district field-
day. In turn, a number of dis-
tricts may amalgamate to hold
a regional field-day. It is not
unusual for Junior Farmers to
travel a long way to compete at
these regional field-days, at
which there may be up to 2000
visitors.
In most areas an annual
school of instruction is held.
These schools last four or five
days, and usually concentrate
on some specific aspect of the
work being studied. Pig-raising,
sheep and wool (with instruction
in shearing), home-planning and
interior - decorating, tractor -
management and -maintenance,
beef-cattle-raising and -manage-
ment, home-management, weld-
ing and farm-mechanics —to
mention a few —are studied at
these schools jn some detail. In
addition, leadership-schools are
held in many areas. A State-
wide school for club-leaders is
held at the National Fitness
Camp at Bathurst.
Special winter schools are con-,
ducted annually at Hawkesbury
and Wagga Agricultural Col-
leges, catering for 20 students
in each of three courses: at
(Continued on next page )


F & G
You Are Cordially Invited
by ' , •
THE MANAGEMENT AND STAFF
of the
FARMERS & GRAZIERS
COMPANY
TO VISIT THE COMPANY’S KIOSK WHEN
AT THE “ROYAL.” WHERE THE WARMEST
OF WELCOMES AWAITS YOU
SINCE the early ’twenties we at “F & G” have enjoyed' the
privilege of extending hospitality to our country visitors to the
world’s greatest Agricultural exposition—the Sydney Royal.
This year is no exception. When the exuberance of the
thousands that pack the Showground tells on you come and
relax and refresh with your friends at the “F & G” Kiosk,
opposite Anthony Horderns’ Pavilion, Park Road and
Grandis Street.
THE FARMERS & GRAZIERS' CO-OPERATIVE
GRAIN INSURANCE AND AGENCY CO. LTD.
Licensed Auctioneers, Stock and Station Agents
SIRIUS HOUSE, MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY. BU 3311
COUNTRY VISITORS
ARE CORDIALLY INVITED
To visit our Modern Showroom and Inspect
a very complete Range of Air Compressors,
Spray Painting Equipment and Power Tools.
ON DISPLAY THIS EASTER:
GREGORY HOME FARM INDUSTRIAL
AIRSPRAY UNITS
Lm
na
ita
THE MODERN WAY TO PAINT
0 Sprays Inside and Outside Paint. 0 Seven times faster
than hand brushing. 0 Also useful for Sheep Jetting.
0 Operated by 1/3 H.P. 32 volt or 240 volt motors.
0 Engine driven units also obtainable.
Other lines available :—
0 WOLF Electric Tools in 32 or 240 volt. 0 HYCO
Woodworking Tools. 9 HOMESHOP Combination Wood-
working Units. 0 Woodfast Universal Woodworkers.
OPUMPPNG Equipment. Water Softeners.
If unable to call, write for illustration.
H. P. GREGORY & CO., LIMITED,
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY. (Behind A.W.A. Tower)
Wagga, agronomy and animal-
husbandry ; at Hawkesbury,
dairy or piggery and vegetables
or poultry in alternate years.
The Bank of New South Wales
donates travelling- and accomo-
dation - expenses for these
schools ; the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture provides the
tuition through the staff of the
two colleges.
Each year a special competi-
tion, sponsored by the Rural
Bank, is conducted to select the
outstanding Junior Farmer in
the State. Various factors are
taken into account —practical
ability as shown in project-
work on a sound economic basis,
accuracy of records, influence
on other members, personality,
in brief, the
ideal is a combination of sound
farmer and leader.
Seven finalists are. visited ojn
their home-properties by the
State organiser and the chief
country valuer of the bank, to
assess project-work, and the
seven then face a panel of judges
in Sydney. Trophies are
awarded to the winners in each
district (there are 22 districts),
and the State winner, known as
the “Star” Junior Farmer of the
year, gets an additional trophy.
In the .past two years he has also
had a six-months’ tour of the
United Kingdom, returning
through Canada and the United
States.
Each year, too, a boy and a
girl visit New Zealand for four
months. The Bank of New
South Wales provides travelling-
expenses and pocket-money for
the boy, the Rural Bank does
likewise for the girl> In New
Zealand the visitors are the
guests of the corresponding
Dominion organisations, and
when they come home they
travel to other clubs in their
State, passing-on what they have
learnt. Similarly, each year a
boy and a girl from New Zea-
land come here.
Inter-Staie travel is made pos-
sible for three boys from N. S.
Wales, who§e expenses are paid
for the Brisbane (two boys) and
Adelaide (one boy) Royal
Shows. In addition, one boy
or one girl may visit the Perth
Royal Show. In each case the
youngsters are the guests pf the
Royal Agricultural Societies at
a show-camp, and, of coursp,
they are also entertained by the
respective Junior Farmer organi-
sations. The visitor may remain
in Western Australia for a month
after the show ends as a guest
of the W.A. Junior Farmers.
Each year three members
from Australia are selected for
travel to the United States. The
Commonwealth Bank pays the
expenses of one, the other two
pay their own expenses, but all
are guests of the 4-H Clubs (the
U.S. equivalent of our Junior
Farmer movement) under the
International Farm Youth Ex-
change scheme. Three 4-H
members visit Australia for six
months each year, and a similar
exchange has operated with the
U.K.
Some areas arrange their own
tours. Between 30 and 60
N.S.W members have travelled
in Queensland, South Australia
and Victoria, and other groups
have travelled through certain
districts in their own State.
Such districts as the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area have been
visited because of their agricul-
tural interest; others the
Snowy Mountains area, and
Sydney for more general
reasons.
Last year the N.' - S. Wales
organisation entertained two
New Guinea natives —one the
senior native agricultural instruc-
tor and the other the leading
student in agriculture, at the
Vunami Education Centre near
Rabaul.
Show-work has a big part in
the training of club-members. At
most country shows there is a
club-exhibition, and quite often
several competitive exhibits are
prepared by club-members. In
other places the club runs its
own show. Among the more
outstanding of these are the
club-shows at Tharwa, Raymond
Terrace, and Bellingen. Many
of those who made their first
acquaintance with show-work
in this way are now valued
members of agricultural-society
committees.
The club-exhibit each year
at Sydney Royal Easter Show is
an example of this side of Show r-
work. For the past three years
the materials have been collected
from a different area in rotation.
This year all the exhibits have
been collected from the northern
area, which takes in the New
England, north-west and Namoi
districts. With an area-super-
visor, three boys came to Sydney
about a fortnight before .the
show opened, and worked from
early in the morning until late
at night to design and erect the
Junior Farmer exhibit in the
Agricultural Pavilion.
The machinery of organisa-
tion is not generally understood,
even by people familiar with
the work of Junior Farmers in
their own districts. Organisa-
tion is on a State level, with
liaison between the various State
organisations. But a brief des-
cription of the organisation in
N. S. Wales gives a very fair
idea of the organisation in other
States.
Policy is decided by a State
Council. Members are two rep-
resentatives from each of six
Government departments or
instrumentalities, three banks,
four producers’ organisations,
the Royal Agricultural Society,
the Country Women’s Associa-
tion, the N.S.W. Teachers’
Federation, the Australian insti-
tute of Agricultural Science, the
Australian Federation of Broad-
casting Stations, the Junior
Farmers’ Supervisors’ Associa-
tion, and the State organiser and
his deputy, together with two
representatives from each of 22
Junior Farmer districts through-
out the State.
Decisions of the State Council
are passed on through the State
organiser, to regional councils,
district councils, advisory-com-
mittees and clubs. The council
meets three times a year, during
school-holidays, to discuss
matters raised at any level during
the intervening time. The exec-
utive meets every week.
Administration is in the hands
of permanent officers of the Dep-
artment of Education. The
State organiser and his assistant,
at head-office, direct the work
of seven area-supervisors, with
headquarters at Lismore (North
Coast area), Armidale (northern
area), Newcastle, Parramatta
(Sydney region), Wollongong
(southern area), Wagga (south-
western area) and Bathurst
(western area). Fifteen district-
supervisors come under the dir-
ection of the area-supervisors.
These district-supervisors are
each responsible for the smooth
working of from 10 to 24 clubs,
and have their headquarters at
Casino and Coff’s Harbor
(North Coast), Tamworth and
Inverell (northern), Muswell-
brook, Kempsey and Taree
(Newcastle), Gosford (Sydney
region), Goulbourn and Bega
(southern), Deniliquin, Leeton
and Temora (south-western) and
Dubbo and Young (western).
A lot of help comes from
officers of the Departments of
Agriculture and Conservation.
These men willingly give their
time advising on local problems,
judging competitions, and draw-
ing-up projects.
Finance comes largely from a
small annual subscription, which
varies with the age of the mem-
ber. Ten- to sixteen-year-olds
pay 25., 16 to 21 pay 55., and
from 21 to 25, 10s. Half of the
subscription is sent to head-
office ; the other half is kept in
the club-funds, to meet costs of
local .competitions and func-
tions. The only other revenue
is that contributed for specific
purposes, mainly by the Bank of
New South Wales and the Rural
Bank, and by other donors for
State championships in particular
projects.
Last year senior-leadership
groups were formed as an addi-
tional section within the organi-
sation. These groups consist of
members between 16 and 25
years of age, who come from
two or more neighboring clubs.
The idea is that they get together
to do some form of research on
local problems affecting the farm
or the home. On the South
Coast, with expert help from
architects, they are planning the
best farm-homes for local con-
ditions ; on the North Coast a
group is studying farm-manage-
ment ; on the Murrhmbidgee
Irrigation Area another group is
studying the general structure of
the local rural community.
In every case there is a con-
scious effort to examine and
construct, and to take an active
interest in worth-while local
affairs.


$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
far.
1
WELL
LININGS
□
□
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding jsuccess
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE.
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE TAMWORTH.
Maclaren’s
BOVEC PENICILLIN
FOR
MASTITIS
Penicillin is the most
effective method of
treating bovine mastitis.
The recommended
method is to inject
25,000 to 50,000 units
of Penicillin into the
infected quarter, via the
teat canal, once each
day for three days.
Used correctly, Bovec
Penicillin is guaranteed
to give up to 98% cure
in all cases.
5 o
po*
O
of
<D"f
«{gs
£J°
r.n^ec^'
E&S
fi°ja?
Te«
•£>
Obtainable in
4 c.c. tubes, Boxes
of 12, from
veterinary surgeons
and
butter factories in
all districts.
+
Recommended by
Agricultural
Departments and
C.5.1.R.0.
MACLAREN RESEARCH & MANUFACTURING LABORATORIES
ALPHINGTON, VICTORIA
Men Who Make the Show
R.A.S. Personalities
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
SAM HORDERN, president
of the Royal Agricultural
Society of N. S. Wales,
comes of a family with
deep roots in the R.A.S., and
deeper ones in Australia.
The first Anthony Hordern
to be in these parts was born in
1789, in Staffordshire, England.
His wife started the famous
store. Their son, another
Anthony, married one of Samuel
Marsden’s daughters, whose
portrait, hanging in the city office
of a current Anthony Hordern,
shows a striking similarity to
the face of Sir Samuel Hordern,
K.8.E., reproduced elsewhere in
this issue.
Sir Samuel Hordern, the
present Sam’s father, was R.A.S.
president from 1915 to 1941 ;
his father, another Samuel, was
a vice-president in 1890; the
present president’s maternal
grandfather, Sir John See, was
president from 1898 to 1907 ; his
uncle, Anthony Hordern, C.8.E.,
besides being an R.A.S. vice-
president, chairman of two im-
portant committees, and possibly
the most versatile stud-stock
breeder Australia has had, is
president of the N.S.W. Sheep
Breeder’s Society ; another uncle,
Harry See, is a vice-president
and chairman of the agricultural-
committee ; and a cousin,
Anthony Hordern, jnr., is an
R.A.S. councillor and chairman
of the fodder-committee.
Sam Hordern is a Cambridge
M.A., was commissioned in the
Middle East (War II) with the
7th. Cav., and finished the war
as a major with the 4th Armored
Brigade. He was in the Huon
Peninsula campaign and the
capture of Satelberg and Wareo,
collecting a military 0.8. E.
Before recently interviewing
him, present writer had had two
main impressions of the man.
A well-groomed figure in the
middle of a crowd at various
functions, and standing head-
and-shoulders over all but. the
tallest; outdoor-red, strong-
boned face breaking every now
and then into a wide, white grin ;
the diplomat’s ready word and
ease of manner. And the other,
recurring picture of a six-feet-
five figure striding along in a
terrific hurry.
He has reason to hurry, on
occasion. Apart from his R.A.S.
duties, and his somewhat similar
duties as president of the Eques-
trian Federation of Australia,
he’s an A.J.C. committeeman, a
director of Tooth’s, A.M.P.., Per-
petual Trustee Co., Courtaulds,
and a string of pastoral concerns.
His land interests range from
PHILIP CHARLEY; vice-
president; ringmaster
Bowral (N.S.W.), where he
mostly lives, up into Queensland,
and he breeds Jersey, Devon
and Santa Gertrudis cattle
(Santas, which were shown at
Brisbane last year, were shown
at Sydney this year for the first
time), Ryeland and Southdown
sheep, and Welsh ponies’:
He has worked his way up in
the Show-business. Competed as
a boy-rider, done odd jobs, ex-
hibited in horse- and dog-events,
been chairman of horse- and dog-
committees, served on the agri-
cultural-committee, and was a
very competent ringmaster. He
became a councillor in 1935, vice-
president in 1950, and was elected
president in June, 1954, when
Sir Colin Sinclair retired.
Over at the R.A.S. office in
Macquarie-place, where Dubois
did the sketch of him which
appears elsewhere in this issue,
one had the impression that the
president didn’t Gare much for
the biographical questions.
Understandable, but a bit sur-
prising in a man who has lived
so much in the public eye.
Still, an R.A.S. president Ms
public property, in a way, par-
ticularly at this time of year.
And this one had been hard to
catch. Phone-calls to Bowral,
calls to his Sydney office. Later,
I gathered, when a vice-presi-
dent asked “Ever try to get him
on the ’phone?’” that' this is not
an uncommon difficulty. He’s a
quick traveller.
Dubois said the light was
better in Mr. Skidmore’s office.
The president, having been
assured that Mr. Skidmore was
out —“Skid hates people using
his office” —made the swap.
Then, when the conversation
became purely R.A.S., there was
a change, to quick interest. A
pleasant, perfectly ' natural,
down-to-earth bloke, talking
easily, astride a chair. An appro-
priate posture for the president
of the Equestrian Federations
Later, Harold Sarina, former
R.A.S. registrar, made an
interesting point. Early presi-
dents, he said, although they had
a lot of responsibility, didn’t
work the same hours latter-day
presidents have been obliged to
keep by the growth of the organ-
isation. Over the last 15 years or
so the job has become so big that
it is, in itself, a full-time one.
Harold joined the R.A.S. when
Sir Frank Suttor was president,
Monty Somers secretary, back
in 1910; and, with time-out for
two wars, he was there
until last year, so he
knows what he’s talking
about.
There are now 53
members of the R.A.S.
council, including the
president, 15 vice-
presidents, treasurer
Lt.-Col. R. Morell,
0.8. E., D. 5.0., and
State Minister for
Agriculture Graham. (Another
councillor, W. H. Davies, the
well-known wine-man, passed
on not long before the Show
opened, as did former president
Sir Colin Sinclair.)
The 53 govern the R.A.S.,
giving their services free. In fact,
they must be considerably out-
of-pocket. There are council
meetings once a month, and
country councillors have to come
down to attend them. Usually,
committee meetings and such
breed-society meetings as indi-
vidual councillors may , be
interested in can be fitted in to
coincide with these monthly
meetings, but, even so, there is
considerable expenditure of time
and money, reckoned over a
year, and taking into account the
Easter Show, visits to other
Royals and to country shows,
and the like.
Councillors also pay full
membership-fees—and none of
this expenditure is allowable as
a deduction for income-tax pur-
poses. So “out-of-pocket” is put-
ting it mildly.
It is, altogether, remarkable
that an organisation, of this
magnitude has been built-up on
a principle of voluntary service.
True, of course, it is an honor
to belong to the R.A.S. council;
but that does not diminish the
value of the service given.
As well as the 53, there are
honorary councillors and honor-
ary vice-presidents. This, I under-
stand, was a Sir Colin Sinclair
innovation. After a man has
served a certain time as council-
lor he is entitled to go on this
honorary list.
Director-Secretary of the R.A.S.,
Lt.-Gen. SIR FRANK BERRYMAN
These, so to speak, elder
statesmen retain all former privi-
leges except the right to vote.
They can attend all meetings of
committees on which they have
formerly served. There is a
double benefit. Formerly, if a
man retired he was cut off
abruptly from an interest of
years, and missed it; and the
council, for its part, has the
benefit of these older men’s
experience.
But besides the council, active
and honorary, there is a per-
manent staff, of which General
Berryman is the chief adminis-
trative officer. To give an ade-
quate account of the careers and
special contributions of all these
men —councillors and executive
officers —would take more than
an article. It would take a book.
A brochure, at the least, with
biographical notes on all con-
cerned, would not be a bad
idea. The cumulative effect
would be very impressive.
Something the society’s pub-
licity-department might per-
haps look into.
In lieu of that, a selection of
some of those who seem typical,
for one reason or another, has
been made here. Interesting per-
sonalities have had to be omitted
or only barely mentioned. It is
hard to do otherwise.
Then, too, many councillors
are hard to comer at this time
of the year. But what has par-
ticularly struck the writer in mak-
ing these inquiries has been the
range of specialised knowledge
available to the society from
its own ranks.
(i Continued on next page )


1
MEN CAN ERECT THIS FRAMEWORK IN 0 HOUR
Prefabricated
Tubular-steel
Garage or Shed,
18ft. x 10ft x 7ft
• NO SPECIAL TOOLS OR SKILLED
LABOUR REQUIRED
• BIG SAVINGS IN ERECTION COSTS
• PROOF AGAINST FIRE AND WHITE
ANTS
METHOD OF CONNECTING MEMBERS
m
am
mzT 1
f‘:’j * ' i
Consigned to you for immediate trouble-free assembly, a HIGH - FLY TUBULAR
STEEL-FRAMED BUILDING is your easiest way of acquiring economical space. Light but
amazingly sturdy. Each frame delivered with all nuts and bolts, etc. We can quote on any type or
size of PREFABRICATED TUBULAR-STEEL BUILDINGS including haysheds machinery
sheds, workshops or trusses for bush posts.
"MACSHIEL" RURAL WORKER ACCOMMODATION
• PREFABRICATED IN GALVANISED
PANELS.
• INSULATED AGAINST HEAT OR
COLD IN ROOF AND WALLS.
• PROOF AGAINST FIRE, WHITE
ANTS, DRY ROT AND VERMIN.
• APPROVED BY DEPARTMENT OF
LABOUR AND INDUSTRY.
• NO MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
• LOWER INSURANCE PREMIUMS.
MANUFACTURERS OF
High-Fly clothes hoist. High-Fly tubular steel tank
stands and High-Fly automatic poultry feeder.
ONLY A SPANNER REQUIRED
PRICES HIGH-FLY PREFABRICATED
TUBULAR-STEEL GARAGE
Frame- Corrugated Steel
work. Galv. Iron. Doors.
18' X 10' X7' .... £47 £32 £lB
20' X 12' X7' .... £57 £37 £2O
18' X 20' X7' .... £B5 £44 £36
For particulars and quotes for buildings or rural
workers’ accommodation, MAIL THIS COUPON
To CLEVELAND ENGINEERING AND
WELDING CO., PTY. LTD.,
Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney
Please send me free particulars of High-Fly
Tubular-Steel Buildings.
NAME ~
ADDRESS ....'
Size and '
Type Required ................................ • •.......
A veterinary problem? There
is B. H. Pottie, M.R.C.V.S., on
the council. Legal? There are
several lawyers: for a start. Cliff
Minter, of Minter, Simpson, the
well-known firm of Sydney soli-
citors, who is a vice-president.
He is also a breeder of the Aber-
deen Angus (Kahlua stud, Bow-
ral), and is chairman of direc-
tors of Hoyt’s and Sydney Cold
Stores; director of Pacific Coal,
and of General Theatres Corp. of
A’sia, vice-chairman of Nestles
Food Specialities (Aust.),
deputy-chairman of Farmer’s,
Sydney director of National
Mutual Life. * *
Or there is Ernest Whistler
Street, councillor and chair-
man of the committee that
deals with printing and
advertising. - Son of a former
Chief Justice of N.S.W.,
brother of the present Chief
Justice, chairman of City
Mutual Fire Insurance,
director of Commonwealth
Mining Investment (Aust.),
Ltd., Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney, Toohey’s
Brewery. A War I gunner,
wounded in France, he was
admitted to the N.S.W. Bar
in 1924, and was, for a time,
hon. treasurer of the Bar
Council. During War II he
was a member of the
Commonwealth Internment
Appeal Tribunal, and later
Chief Legal Officer, Eastern
Command.
Sir Colin Sinclair, who
was 80 when he passed on at
a Sydney hospital on the
Friday night immediately
preceding the Show, was,
with the other former pre-
sident, Sir Samuel Hordern, a
vice-patron of the society. He
was bom in the New England
(N.S.W.) and educated at the
Armidale School and Sydney
University: Bachelor of Arts
and Bachelor of Laws, the last
as an articled clerk with Minter,
Simpson.
His father owned Waterloo,
Glen Innes, and Sir Colin and
his family at one time owned six
station-properties in N.S.W.
Three of these were made avail-
able for soldier-settlement and
a fourth was sold to a pastoral
company. It is possible that
some of the remaining property
was sold after he retired —an old
friend told writer that he had
“got rid of some of his respon-
sibilities” when his health began
to fail —but, in April, 1953, when
a Bulletin personal-par. on him
appeared, thqre were still 17,400
N. E. Woods; councillor; wood-
chopping-committee chairman.
acres freehold and 76,000 lease-
hold left.
At the time of his death Sir
Colin was still on the boards of
the Bank of N.S.W. and
the Union Trustee Com-
pany. But in 1953, when he was
president of the R.A.S., he was
also president of the ’Wales, vice-
chairman of the Union Trustee
Company, director of Australian,
Mercantile, Land and Finance,
director of Commercial Union
Assurance, and director of the
McGarvie Smith Institute; also
patron of the N.S.W. Junior
Farmers’ advisory-council and
the Agricultural Societies’ coun-
cil and vice-president of the
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association,
and had represented N.S.W. on
its Federal council.
Also, Sir Colin was a life-
member of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association, and member of the
Australian Board of Cricket
Control; councillor of the
N.S.W. division of the Flying
Doctor Service, councillor of the
Fairbridge Farm School and of
Scots College, and he had been a
Country-party member for
Namoi and Minister for Lands
in the N.S.W. Parliament.
And these, after all, are but
the bare bones of achievement.
In, interviewing a number of his
old R.A.S. friends (before news
of his death) I was impressed
by what they said about him.
There was no specific inquiry on
my part —his name simply kept
coming into the conversation.
One said that his personality
and character were such that
there was a tendency for his
views to be accepted without
argument, almost without dis-
cussion. That he was aware of
this, and deplored it. Another
thing that exercised his mind, I
was told, was the problem of
having a council which was truly
representative, not only of dif-
ferent aspects of agriculture and
industry, but of different parts
of the State. And he was always
on the look-out for promising
young men to bring on the
council.
Alexander McCorquodale,
vice-president and deputy-chair-
man of the agricultural-commit-
tee, said “Sir Colin Sinclair”
thoughtfully, and paused. “He
was a man like this. It was im-
possible for anyone working
with him not to give him abso-
lute loyalty.”
Vincent Fairfax added some-
thing else. Obviously, he said,
a man of Sir Colin’s ability and
opportunities could have become
extremely wealthy had he wished.
He was not extremely
wealthy, the reason
being that he was less
interested in material
prosperity than in an
ideal of service.
Vincent Charles
Fairfax, one of the
“Sydney Morning
Herald” family, seems
to have undertaken a
fair amount of civic
responsibility himself.
R.A.S. councillor and
chairman of the cater-
ing-committee, he is
joint hon. treasurer of
the N.S.W. Sheep
Breeders’ Society;
Deputy-Chief Commis-
sioner of N.S.W. Boy
Scouts; chairman of
the Boys’ Brigade;
member of the council
of the Flying Doctor
Service of Australia;
vice-president of Toe
H; member of the
council of the Charity
Organisations Society;
trustee, Walter and Eliza Hall
Trust; chairman of the Aus-
tralian section of the Common-
wealth Press Union ; senior vice-
president of the National Gallery
Society; on the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra committee, the
council of Geelong Grammar
School, various church bodies,
and the Bank of New South
Wales board.
Oxford graduate and War II
A.I.F. major, he resigned from
the “S.M.H.” board a couple of
years back. While he was on it,
and earlier, when he had been
advertising-manager, he had (he
reputation around town of being
an astute executive.
He is a grazier—sheep—in
southern Queensland. The main
property is near Goondiwindi
and he has an interest in another
place near Warwick. He is not,
as one might, perhaps, be
tempted to think of a'man with
big city interests, a Johnny-
come-lately in the grazing busi-
ness. He was born in Queens-
V. C. FAIRFAX; councillor; enter-
tainment-committee chairman.
land, and his father, Hubert Fair-
fax (also on the R.A.S. council),
at one time had a Corriedale-
stud and an Ayrshire-stud and
was well known as a judge at
various shows.
Alexander McCorquodale has
been a vice-president for two
years, and has been on the
council for 18 years. Before
that he judged wheat for eight
or nine years. He is managing-
director of McCorquodale
Brothers, the flourmillers,
chairman of Cumberland News-
papers, a member of the Wagga
Research Institute and a trustee
of the Farrer Memorial. Also,
during War 11, an enthusiastic


t» If
I've always found
that you can
rely on
Schute Bell
u
Times Jiave
changed-
so has
Tooths
i •'iV, A-VV-v'
. "-v-ifW
.- , • > ‘-VT'.L*.
'K&.160.52
2?
This new label distinguishes
NEW K.B
| K.B. has always been good—but now
with this new brew it is even better.
Buy it , , . try it . . . you’ll like it.
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
member of the Mos m a n
(Sydney) V.D.C.
Just what it was about the
V.D.C. that tickled his imagina-
tion is hard to say, but, round at
his Sussex-street office, with its
specimens of wheat in glass, the
conversation was split between
V.D.C. incidents and R.A.S.
work. And what he said made
a curiously attractive picture of
ageing men soldiering on, with
interludes of muddle and pure
farce, but a solid stratum of
seriousness. The Japs might
have come —and there’d have
been a notable V.D.C. story if
they had.
A sapper in War I (he had
been an engineer-apprentice with
C.S.R. before joining the A.1.F.),
Alexander McCorquodale
stayed on in England for several
years learning about milling-
engineering. Another curious
War II story came out of this —
the bottleneck in springs. He
went to the Ministry of Muni-
tions, Gun Ammunition Produc-
tion, as an engineer, during the
war, and the difficulties of pro-
duction of a multiplicity of
precision-springs for fuse-caps,
and how those difficulties were
overcome, make a fascinating
story.
Regarding his special R.A.S.
interest —the agricultural-courts
and -exhibits—he says that he,
personally, favors non-competi-
tive exhibits from districts, and
points to the spectacular
bananagrowers’-exhibit from the
North Coast, and the apples
from Batlow and Orange, to
support his preference. Other-
wise, he says, there is a likeli-
hood of a certain monotony in
district-exhibits, and districts do
not concentrate on products
typical of their localities.
This, it must be emphasised,
is taken out of a context of
glowing appreciation for the
whole section and, particularly,
for the blokes who work like
mad getting the district-exhibits
ready. It is here presented as
an example of the sort of
questioning and examination
that must go on in every section
of the R.A.S. for it to continue
to grow, thrive, and adapt itself
to changing conditions.
The committee, Mr. McCor-
quodale said, always has a col-
lective eye cocked for new
presentations. One such is the
rice—shown growing in the
various stages of growth. Like-
wise the pasture-exhibit men-
tioned by E. J. Breakwell in his
article in this issue.
Sometimes, committeeman
McCorquodale said, you don’t
see a thing until it hits you.
For instance, the agricultural-
halls were always shut-up for
cleaning at night. One night it
rained, and to give crowds
shelter they decided to let the
cleaning go. That caused a line
of speculation: couldn’t other
arrangements be made about
cleaning? People waiting to see
the trots, for instance, might like
to look around at night . . .
Well, they now do.
Ehilip Belmont Charley, vice-
president, ringmaster, and chair-
man of the horse-committee, is
also on the building-and-works
and dairy-produce committees.
And if there’s anything in
heredity, he should know some-
thing about building.
In 1891, a couple of years
before he was born, his father,
another Philip Charley and like-
wise a vice-president, built the
magnificent red mansion on
Belmont Park which is today a
charitable institution. Belmont
Park takes its name from Ensign
Bell, who played a colorful part
in the early days of the colony.
He was in charge of the main
guard when the Bligh rebellion
broke, and gave the order to
advance against Government
House. The Philip Charley of
Broken Hill fame bred hackneys
and Red Polls on Belmont Park.
His son runs a grade-herd of
Illawarra Shorthorns in the same
Windsor-Richmond region, and
is president of the Hawkesbury
District Agricultural Associa-
tion. A gunner in the sth Bde.,
First A.1.F., he finished that war
with a commission in the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps, and gave a
hand with the A.T.C. as a flight-
lieutenant in War 11.
The vital unit in the R.A.S.
organisation is the committee.
Some councillors serve on
several committees, and these, in
concert with the perihanent
staff, get the work done. The
executive committee is what the
name implies—a small body
which can make decisions when
a meeting of the council is not
practicable. It consists of the
president, the treasurer and the
chairmen of the more important
committees: horse, cattle, agri-
cultural, finance and building-
and-works.
H. C. M. See, chairman of the
agricultural - committee, is the
son of the Sir John See who, at
the age of 23, left the Clarence
(North Coast) district and came
to Sydney to establish John See
and Co.,' became managing-
director of the North Coast
Steam Navigation Co. and, at
40, entered the State Parliament.
During his political career he
was a close friend of Archibald
of The Bulletin (so, inciden-
tally, was the father of Sir
Graham Waddell, another vice-
president), and Harry See re-
members Archibald coming to
their home at Randwick to dine
and his fishing at Port Hacking.
After jackerooing, Harry See
bought a property at Inverell
(Continued on page 36)


n
The 2 Features that make
CARAPARK Your First Choice
Illustrated: Hunter 4 berth.
The Reason Why CARAPARK Sales are the
Largest in the Southern Hemisphere
Aluminium
for lightness
Yes! The all aluminium body braced with
steel frame and chassis combines to give
a light, tough, durable caravan which out-
lives and outclasses any other unit of its
type.
The furnishings and drapery of all Carapark
units are designed for easy living. Nothing
has been overlooked for your comfort.
See Carapark or wrtfe for free
cotoured brochure.
Steel for
Strength
CARAPARK PRODUCTIONS LTD.
681 Parramatta Rd., Leichhardt, N.S.W.
Name u-
Address...
828/8 ;
CARA PARK
SYDNEY: MELBOURNE: BRISBANE: NEWCASTLE.
DEALERS IN ALL PRINCIPAL CENTRES
Champions in the Making &
Trotting Round the Shows
By RAY ALEXANDER
However popular trot-
ting has become, it has
always maintained a
certain amateurism.
Even in America, the birthplace
of the light-harness sport, where
prizemoney for Hambletonians
and Little Brown Jugs is soaring
round the 100,000-dollars mark,
trotting still has a close associa-
tion with State and county
agricultural fairs.
Throughout Australia agricul-
tural shows have been a second-
home for. trotters and .pacers.
Ilf New South Wales, with its
long period of indecision and
Rafferty rules “red-hots”
before the change to night-
trots and the subsequent boom,
trotting had to fall back heavily
on the shows. In fact, the shows
carried the sport; but they have
not lost by it.
During the lean years, trotting
at country shows represented a
means of livelihood —or, at least,
a bag of chaff—to owners and
trainers who followed the shows
with a team of horses. In some
districts, where horses were
scarce, the handicapper would
not be too harsh on the men,
and they all did well. When a
group of them arrived at the one
show, they would put their
heads together, make sure they
all got the run they were after,
and finish-up dividing the prize-
money.
At that time most show-
societies had their own handi-
capper ; handicapping was
discretionary, a horse’s winning-
time being a big factor—and
quite a few owners were friendly
with some of the timekeepers.
So a horse that had won in
false time would appear a week
later on a mark 40yds. or so
easier than the one he had won
from the previous week.
Mr. Roy Stephenson advo-
cated a move to put a stop to
this. Mr. Stephenson had made
his trotting-debut at the Castle
Hill showground in 1920, when,
on the same day, he won the
ladies’ and gents’ hack-classes,
champion hack and best gentle-
man rider with a mare named
Fizzles, and drove another mare
—Saxon Girl —to victory in a
road-sulky test, a lap to the good
of his rjvals at the end of the
four-lap course.
At her next start, Saxon Girl
won the square-trotters’ event at
the Hawkesbury Show.
At stud, only, one filly of her
four foals survived; that one
was the dam of Royal-Saxon, a
capable old pacer who showed
Alf Phillis the way round in his
early trotting-years; he is now
the State’s leading trainer-
driver.
From this background of
trotting, Mr. Stephenson, under
prompting from Clive Hall (the
father of Perce Hall, now a top-
line trainer and driver), took on
handicapping at the shows in
qbout 1929, and here had a
close-up view of the system that
was causing so much trouble.
His subsequent move was for
a group-system of shows, with
each district-group employing its
own handicapper and supervisor.
In 1930 Mr. W. H. Simpson,
founder and president of the
Granville Agricultural and
Horticultural Society, called a
meeting of show-societies in the
Cumberland area at Blacktown.
Here the Cumberland Group of
Show Societies was formed. Mr.
Simpson was elected president
and Mr. Stephenson was
appointed group handicapper
and supervisor; both still hold
their positions. Fourteen show-
societies now belong to this
group.
Later, the Agricultural
Societies Council of N.S.W.
moved to bring all show-
societies in the State into groups,
and as a result of much hard
work by Mr. Allan Pickering
(secretary since 1931) 14 groups
were formed, each with its own
handicapper and supervisor.
The work done by Pickering and
Simpson has had a great deal
to do with the improvement and
progress of country show-
societies throughout the State.
In 1936 the Trotting League of
New South Wales advocated a
standard basis of race, with set
penalties for all show-societies
and country trotting-clubs. The
N.S.W. Trotting Club o.k.’d
this suggestion, and show-trots
came on to a yet firmer footing.
With night - trotting, name-
certificates and assessment-cards
haye been introduced —the most
recent step in the clean-up of a
side of the sport that well
needed cleaning-up.
Trotters and pacers need to
become accustomed to all types
of noises, colors and lights. If
a square-trotter shies at some-
thing and breaks into a gallop
he has to be pulled back into a
trot which usually means
losing ground—or else be dis-
qualified. If a pacer makes a
mistake at top speed he may, in
a tight ruck, bring the field
down. The straps (or hopples)
on their legs don’t allow for
dance-steps in the middle of a
race.
This is where the shows have
their true value: the maiden you
see at a show skipping in his
gear a half-lap behind the rest of
the field may, when he hits the
straps, go on to be a world-
beater. Trotters, too, come
from all over: another
youngster may be a backyard-
pet in an outer suburb, worked
on the gravel roads in the
district, hardly ever sighting
another horse. He has to be
taken around the shows for his
education with other horses.
Some horses never can take
to certain noises. The shows,
with their merry-go-rounds,
sideshows —and broadcasts of
the races —soon find the horses
out in this regard, and some
have to be deafened by putting
cottonwool in their ears.
Most pacers race with head
held high by a head-check,
which helps them keep their
balance, and often they become
very touchy about things on the
ground that they can just catch
out of the corner of an eye.
Some become shadow-jumpers ;
some jump anything—small bits
of paper, pools of water. This
is remedied with a shadow-
blind, usually a fluffy, white
affair that fits across the horse’s
nose, making them look attrac-
tive and influencing the ladies’
attempts to pick winners.
Some horses will “lug” or
race with head veered and body
leaning to one side: numerous
types of lugging-gear are tried-
out at the shows. Trotters won’t
throw their front legs out far
enough: toe-weights are experi-
mented with. There are in-
numerable things a trotter or
pacer can do that he shouldn’t
be doing, and there are usually
as many methods of preventing
each one of them. Continual
racing around the shows will
often cure a horse of a bad
habit, making unnecessary the
need for gear that perhaps inter-
feres with his speed.
In other ways shows act as a
medium between training-track
and registered meeting, while at
the same time they provide good
entertainment for show-
spectators. And these days
many make show-afternoons
profitable by jotting-down in
their little black books likely
winners for the next provincial
or Harold Park meeting.
It is at the shows, too, that
drivers get their experience.
Sixteen - year - olds alongside
sixty-year-olds usually means
good experience—and good fun.
No driver makes the grade at
Harold Park before he goes
through the hard school of show-
driving. A newly-established
drivers’ school in the State pro-
vides for experts to watch young
drivers around the shows, tell-
ing them when and why they
have made mistakes.
Tolerance at the shows is the
keynote, but only towards the
horses. Not so long back an
attempt to ring-in a horse was
made at a gymkhana; the
driver quickly went for a .holi-
day. But at shows horses don’t
have to be driven-out or aren’t
in trouble for which
they would get a six-months’
suspension at a registered meet-
ing. Some horses are barred for
quite a period from registered
meetings on account of their
barrier-behavior. The thing
then is to mend their risky ways
at the shows.
It is wrong, though, to think
that shows are only for
“scrubbers,” for the best horses
in the land continue to race at
them. Recently the Trotting
Club ordered trainers to get
their horses ready for racing at
the shows and gymkhanas;
they had noticed one or two
horses creeping in at registered
meetings, fresh almost from the
paddock. Moreover, the show-
societies provide races intended
to attract topliners.
Trainers will sneak away to
the most obscure shows to give
their horses a run against a bit
of company —and, perhaps, at
the same time avoid the touts< A
horse may be locked-up in his
stall during a wet period, in
which time meetings have been
postponed ; when the rain stops,
the owner with a horse jumping
out of his skin heads for the
nearest show or gymkhana.
Of noises that horses come up
against at the shows one they
will all get used to sooner or
later (in the Sydney metropoli-
tan area, anyway) is the voice
of Mr. Jenkins, who, as ring-
master, keeps the trotting-men
on their toes. All the blasting in
the world over the loudspeaker
wouldn’t stop them from
standing-round talking all after-
noon, but when Mr. Jenkins —
“Watch out, here’s old ‘Jenko’! ”
—comes on the scene, things
start to move.
“Right-oh, there, drivers! Get
’em ready for the first. They’re
on t’day, not t’morra! What’s
that?” Hand to his ear. “Yes,
all ready. Y’ want t’ be back
for the trots t’night, don’t y’?
All right. Well, get a move on!”
And along to the next group:
“First heat ready! Shake a
leg!”
A colorful show-character, a
squat little man in breeches,
“Jenko” has been going around
the shows for 45 years, taking
an interest in all parts of the
programme —even donating cups
for trotting-events. When he has
hurried the trotters along, he
goes back to the ring to see
that everything is running
smoothly there. < With the
promise of his job as long as he
wants it, “Jenko” gets good
voice-practice behind a team of
horses, driving for a large
importing-firm that has long
since relied on trucks for the
remainder of its transport.
Mr. Jenkins is also one of the
“redcoats” at the Royal.
I was once tricked by a voice
at a show, standing, leaning on
the rail trying to pick out the
trotters through the haze of dust
flying from the newly-grubbed
track. Away somewhere, a
voice I knew; certainly not
“Jenko’s.” Rich nasals and
gutturals. Closer, and the
voice was trying to dispose of
“Delicious, appetising sand-
wiches.” Closer, my French
teacher, who recognised me, but
apparently never realised the
debt he owed me for keeping
the story quiet at school —at
least, not by the way he marked
my French papers.
Night gymkhanas have
recently become popular with
trainers wanting to trial their
horses under the lights. In this
way the show-societies have
been able to benefit from the lift
which trotting has received after
years of nurture by the shows.
Sunday gymkhanas, too,
run by show societies, have
become immensely popular—


l®§s
Nowhere are so many
of nature’s wonders to
be found in so compact
an area as in colourful
captivating New
Zealand... the
“Pocket Wonder
World”.
COME TO 1
NEW ZEALAND
/‘THE POCKET WONDER WORLD”
World-famous thermal
regions, fascinating
Maori people, natural
hot springs, unique
glow-worm caves,
vast green forests and
pastures...
J
'
\
... game and stream fishing, hunting,
skiing, glacier climbing, Jakes, mountains,
' fjords of indescribable beauty. They’re
all there ... so close to each other
.. .jso easy to reach.
Consult your Travel Agent or
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
• 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
• 428 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
NZ7
GIVE YOUR PARTY fK,
Ckmp lt $ 116
TAKE any fruits you
fancy—apricots, peaches,
pineapple . . . fresh or
tinned (no syrup), slice,
mix in a bowl and fill up
with chilled Santa
Vittoria Champagne
Demi-Sec. It’s the
perfect party drink
for summer.
M
SMffiVW 511
12'6 bottle
CINZANO
CHAMPAGNE Demi-Sec
CIN22/4.1 ___________________
The Famous
.
. - ■
m
wmm
HlSlii
:
■
. : ;. ;
■
I
, m
S
m
m
: fll|
••' • ’: :•
iv«
I
'■ ■
m
■$
m $
a n
ism
s m
.
mm
:: :
..
■
■ ..
P
;
mmmM
Mm
m
MMMB
0
The famous
Black Forest
Hunting
Knife with
metal tipped
dress
sheath.
Price 45/-,
post free.
•
The Stag
Hunting
Knife,
Eagle’s head
pommel,
staghorn
handle,
blade etched
in three/
colours.
Leather
sheath.
Price 50/-,
post free.
•
The Rhine
Maiden (not
shown).
Beautiful
figurine as
handle.
Blade and
guard same
as Black
Forest.
Price 50/-,
post free.
® The Torch knife. A powerful prefocussed torch in handle. Sheath is
detachable from frog so that blade is shielded when used as torch. An
important item of equipment for hunter, camper or fisherman who needs a
light quickly for emergency. Price 65/-, post free.
• The Bowie knife is of the original design made by Colonel Bowie during the Indian fighting days
of U.S.A. Strong, rugged and a beautiful blade perfectly weighted. Staghorn handle. Fringed
leather sheaths. Price 75/-, post free.
C.O.D. charges extra.
SWIFT MAIL ORDERS
BOX 7051, G.P.0., SYDNEY. 283 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY. 8M3102
both with trainers and trotting-
followers.
Special events have also taken
on, especially just before an
important race —free-for-alls for
the topnotchers before the
Inter-Dominion, special two-
and three - year - old races.
Mostly, however, the events are
“conditioners” for horses return-
ing from a spell, or hit-outs
(though often under strong hold)
for horses just about ready to
win a race. Nomination-fee at
these gymkhanas is only 55., and
they only race for a small
trophy, whereas at the Saturday
shows nominations cost usually
155., but the prizemoney
averages £2O-£3O.
The ordinary Saturday shows
used to run up to 16 races in an
afternoon, but they are now not
so popular. Mr. Stephenson
says the reason is that the shows
are used for educational pur-
poses, and now the owner cag
get a run on a Sunday for 55.,
against 15s. to £1 at a Saturday
show, so that only the owner
who thinks he can win prize-
money goes along. This applies,
however, only in the metropoli-
tan area.
Trotting at Sydney Royal goes
way back to the earliest trotting
in the State. A Distance Trot
would be held under the rules
of Sydney Driving Park, as the
Showground was then known.
Horses, many of them with
blood-lines that would bring
thousands today, would line-up
in vast numbers, in the one run,
some of them asked to coricede
starts of up around 300yds.
The trotting stud-classes were as
popular then as they are now.
There were 11 stud-classes for
trotters in 1886 ; there are 12 at
Sydney Royal this year.
The name of S. Hordern, Hay-
market, crops-up regularly in
the entries at that time. One'
interesting entry in 1886 was a
five-year-old brown horse,
Queen’s Messenger. There’s a
famous Messenger in trotting
records —the father of the freak
fourth-gait of pacing.
A grey horse, Messenger was
an eight-year-old when he was
imported to America from Eng-
land in the year of the colonisa-
tion of New South Wales —1788.
A blood-horse, he continued to
sire horses that had success on
the Turf and as thoroughbred-
sires ; but he is really famous
for the lines of fast, game
trotters he established. Experi-
ments with the lines then estab-
lished enabled breeders to bring
nearer perfection the pacing-
gait, whereby a horse moves
both his near-side legs together,
then both off-side' legs.
' The line through Messenger’s
son Mambrino proved the most
successful. Mambrino, through
Abdallah, was the grandsire of
Hambletonian, the outstanding
horse in the building of the
breed. It is said that 90 per
cent, or more of the harness-
horses racing in America trace
directly through the male-line to
Hambletonian.
. Some of our best pacers do
things wrong in their gait; some
cut their knee-boots about no
end, but they’re still fast. One
of the most natural pacers was
Lawn Derby, a son of Globe
Derby and sire himself of many
of the best horses to have raced.
First horse outside America to
smash two-minuties for the mile
(he ran 1.59 2-5 in New
Zealand), he won
24 races, ran the
fastest time ever on
the Sydney Show-
ground track (2.3
2-5), won 80 per
cent, of his races
without need of
hopples, and all his
records were estab-
lished unhoppled.
But he was a freak.
Also the holder
of records at Adel-
aide and at the
Brisbane Exhibi-
tion, Lawn Derby
was educated at
the different shows,
winning his first
race at Sydney’s
suburban Granville
(driven by Stan
Whitehead). Jack
O’Shea, now a
steward with the
N.S.W. Trotting
Club, drove him in
most of his vic-
tories. Even
champions, then, go through the
show-schedule, whereby cham-
pions are made.
During the early battle round
the shows Sydney Royal was
regarded as the event of the
year—and in some cases still is,
despite the night-trots. The
same as other far-flung exhibi-
tors, the trotting-man would
come down for the Show —and
probably sleep in the feed-stall
next to his horse. In the morn-
ing the roosters —not one or two,
but a pavilionful—would wake
him, and he would go and work
his horse on the Showground
track.
This year, of a total of £14,000
prizemoney in the horse-section,
£4428 will go to 32 trot-classes,
the main feature an Inter-
Dominion-type event run in
heats throughout the Show, the
final on the last night. It carries
£650 in prizemoney.
Last year the Inter-Dominion-
type event was won in a thrilling
final by Vivanti, one of the best
mares racing at Harold Park. A
three-year-old at the time of last
year’s Show, Hamish won a
string of events, starting from
the maiden-classes and working
his way up in class during the
Show. Now a rangy four-year-
old, Hamish is one of the. most
improved pacers racing and is
being closely watched for bigger
things.
There are quite a few square-
trotters’ events at the Royal.
Most of the trotters racing at
Harold Park have “N.Z.” after
their names, the breeding of the
trotter in Australia having long
taken distant second-place to the
breeding of glamor-horse the
pacer.
In Europe—Russia, Sweden,
Italy—they have only square-
trotters, and they are some of
the best in the world. In most
of our own seven-event pro-
grammes there is one race for
the trotters, and this is often a
sprawling spectacle, with horses
galloping all over the track. Yet
when the best trotters come
together in a major event they
provide a spectacle as good as
any pacing-classic.
There is £lOO for the owner
of a square-trotter who can
lower Casameter’s Show-record
of 3.17 1-5 for the mile-and-a-
half. Another £lOO is on offer
for the pacer capable of putting
Lawnrock’s mile of 2.4 by the
board. Better times have actu-
ally been run in both divisions
on the Showground track, Lawn
Derby and White Globe the
responsible parties. But, over
the years, with speedway-racing
and the like, the track-surface
has come through quite a few
face-lifts.
With trotting now a raging
sport in some N.S.W. country
ireas where for years it was
neglected—Peak Hill, Parkes,
Cowra and one or two other
centres have always played
home-ground to the sport—.
there should be a wider repre-
sentation from now on at Sydney
Royal. Trotting is paying back
its debt.
A subsidy to some of the
struggling shows ffom the now-
powerful Trotting Club would
not go astray, either.


A note for.
Stockowners
MAKE A POINT
of calling at
COOPER’S
Manufacturers of Cooper’s Dips and Remedies
(We are checking our mailing lists again this year
and if you like to receive our informative literature,
note books, etc., we will be pleased to have your
confirmation.)
THE “COOPER’S DIP” STAND
No. 6 Park Road, adjoining P.M.G. Department,
where our Representatives will be in attendance
and the advice of our Technical Staff will, as
always, be freely available.
William Cooper & Nephews (Aust.)
PTY. LIMITED
P.O. BOX 12, CONCORD
C. 152.24
Current,Techniques
Fine Pasture
By E. J. BREAKWELL
AT this year’s Royal Easter
Show, there is an innova-
tion —an exhibit/ in the
Agricultural Hall, of
pasture-mixtures from different
districts. Knowing something of
the organisation required to stage
such an exhibit, I know how
much it deserves attention.
My own interest —fine pastures
—isn’t, however, catered for
much at the Show. This is not
criticism: pastures cannot be
easily transported for exhibition
or competition: it is merely a
matter of personal regret —
shared. I think, by many others.
A- good many people at this
year’s Sydney Show are keenly
interested in pastures, and it is
natural that the talk gets round
to certain aspects of pasture-work
which are relatively new when
one meets them there—particu-
larly chisel-ploughing and pas-
ture-nutrition : combined ' with
the merits of different species
and strains in different localities ;
yarious methods of pasture-estab-
lishment and the risks associated
therewith; molybdenum, seed-
I inoculation, and so on.
Chisel-ploughing has been a
good deal in the agricultural
news lately. P. A. Yeomans,
through a sustained and powerful
publicity-campaign, has given
many people food for thought.
Although there are now a
number of * makes of chisel-
ploughs on the Australian
market, we must give Yeomans
credit as the driving-force behind
the acceptance of the implement
by the Australian farmer.
I use the word credit deliber-
ately, because the chisel-plough is
a fine implement in its own right.
Not for all situations, perhaps ;
but its use will certainly become
even more widespread than at
present. It has definitely provided
the answer for seed-bed prepara-
tion on rough country which
would smash other implements
to pieces.
On the thin, light soils, too —
which include millions of acres
of granite-country—the turning-
plough is on the way out. Bring-
ing up the sour, acid subsoil and
placing it on the top, while bury-
ing the all-too-thin layer of fertile
topsoil, is a bad agricultural
manipulation.
Working through such soils
leaving topsoil and trash on the
surface is altogether desirable
and is reflected in better growth
of seeded crop or pasture, quite
apart from the erosion-factor.
Difficulties are experienced in get-
ting the trash to rot-down when
left on the surface, I know, par-
ticularly in the case of coarse
tussocks or No. 9-grass. A com-
promise might be employed here,
using disk-harrows after the first
chiselling. ! With half-set on the
harrows, they will chop rather
than bury; then a seed-bed can
be completed by further chisel-
ling, and trash will be reduced
to such an extent that a combine
or drill can seed without undue
blockages.
Apart from Yeomans’s exposi-
tion on Keyline, little in the way
of instructions for use is given
by vendors of chisel-ploughs. The
farmer has been obliged to work
it out for himself. This, no
doubt, has been the reason for
some of the examples of acceler-
ated eros i o n on chiselled
country.
One seen was where the
operator had done the second
chiselling at depth downhill, then
finished-off the seed-bed pre-
paration on the contour by
shallow chiselling with heel-
sweeps attached. Results were
disastrous. The rains soon cut
through the shallow final chisel-
ling, found the downhill grooves
of the second chiselling, and tore
the paddock to pieces. The final
chiselling should certainly be on
the contour, but it should also
be the deepest, thereby obliterat-
ing the downhill bottoms of pre-
vious chiselling,
But what happens to our pre-
viously conceived ideas about
seed-bed compaction if, with the
last working, we deliberately
destroy this compaction? I don’t
feel particularly concerned about
lack of compaction in higher-
rainfall regions, it could be
dangerous for the establishment
of crops or pastures in drier
areas in a drought-year. We must
not lose sight of the fact that the
introduction of chiselling in
Australia has coincided with
above-average seasons, and we
probably have a lot to learn yet
about the advantages and short-
comings of the chisel-plough.
I adhere to my original and
only contention regarding Key-
line, that the mechanics relating
to rainfall-intake are good and
widely applicable. Chiselling on
the Keyline definitely assists
rainfall-intake, but to a varying
degree according to soil-type. The
soils likely to show most benefit
from Keyline are the heavier
types which tend to shed a lot
of surface-water, but which have
a high water-holding capacity
if only the rainfall can be got
into them. Many clay-loams are
in this category.
I fail to see how equal response
would be shown by lighter soils,
such as sandy-loams and granites.
Here rainfall-intake is quite fast
and surface run-off small, par-
ticularly if there is a reasonable
vegetative cover.
Their ability to hold moisture,
however, is relatively low, as
witnessed by the innumerable
soaks and springs in such country
in a wet season and their, overall
vulnerability to drought. In
respect to water-intake and
-retention, therefore, the big
margin for improvement is just
not there.
Yeomans’s contention, of
course, is that ability for water-
retention is developed by “soil-
building” through chiselling.
There is no doubt that an in-
crease in the organic fraction of
a soil increases its water-holding
ability, amongst other things,
but rapid increase of this organic
fraction has to date not been
practicable.
Whether or not Yeomans’s
contentions regarding soil-build-
ing stand the test of time, one
interesting outcome of his exposi-
tions will be the acquisition of
further knowledge regarding the
economics of pasture-renovation.
There is nothing new about
pasture-renovation—it has been
recommended and practised for
years, particularly with pas-
palum, phalaris and lucerne. By
renovation I do not refer to
pasture-harrowing, but to the
more severe operations which
rip and tear the pasture, destroy-
ing some of it. Lucerne-renova-
tion, too, is in a different
category, because here the aim
is to destroy weeds, while pre-
serving the lucerne-plants.
In spite of official advocacy for
regular renovations, the practice
has not become widespread. The
position should change from now
on, for many farmers are follow-
ing, or intend to follow, Yeo-
mans’s recommendations relating
to regular chiselling. Chiselling—
or scarifying, for that matter —
is cheaper and faster than the
older “plough-down” method,
and, in addition, many properties
are fully sown-down to im-
proved-pastures, and graziers are
seeking further refinements in
pasture-management.
A mass of evidence relating to
the effect and economics of
regular renovation of different
types of pastures on different
types of soils should, therefore,
soon be available for the gather-
ing. I certainly cannot forecast
what the outcome will be, but
can perhaps speculate on certain
results which will be seen, and
suggest reasons for such results.
If by chiselling or scarifying, a
greater intake of rainfall is
achieved, then this in itself will
give better pasture-growth. But
in actual fact, how much run-
off does occur frpm a well-estab-
lished, thick, improved-pasture?
The laments from many im-
proved properties regarding
scarcity of surface-water is testi-
mony to the efficiency of a
vigorous pasture-sward as a rain-
fall-absorbing medium. In such
situations, therefore, renovation,
if it is to be effective, must bring
about a response other than that
due to increased moisture-intake.
Few agricultural - scientists
would subscribe to current
theories regarding the benefits of
aeration. Certainly there is more
carbondioxide in soil-air than
there is in the atmosphere, but
only in extremely compact or
waterlogged soils is there any
evidence that the carbondioxide
attains levels dangerous to plant-
roots or useful bacteria.
In most soils carbondioxide is
continuously passing out and
oxygen passing in by the simple
process of diffusion. A soil might
look compact, but, even so, the
pore-spaces are large in relation
to the size of the molecules of
oxygen and carbondioxide which
move in and out.
The theory that renovation has
a desirable effect through the
“pruning” of the roots is also
suspect, to my mind. It is in-
ferred that old, tough roots are
cut through, and the production
of new, vigorous roots stimu-
lated. But plants are continuously
sloughing - off old roots and
developing new ones without the
stimulus of renovation. Cer-
tainly, opening-up a tight soil
assists the penetration of fine
roots to a greater depth, and this
is one theoretical advantage of
deep chiselling as compared with
shallower renovations —on cer-
tain soil-types.
We must not be misled by any
superficial improvement follow-
ing renovation. Renovation im-
plies a thinning-out of plants,
and, since competition is lessened
by decreasing the number of
plants, the survivors will obvi-
ously grow better. The same
applies to carrots when they are
thinned. The final product is a
larger and more marketable
carrot, but the total yield is not
necessarily greater indeed it
might be less than that from
unthinned carrots.
Nor should we jump to con-
clusions because livestock show
a preference for renovated areas.
They invariably do, but economic
return rather than the enjoyment
of the animal is the all-important
consideration.
The main hope for gain
through renovation probably lies
in the physical action of incor-
porating fresh organic-matter in
the soil. Since organic matter
from green pasture is high in pro-
tein, there is an immediate flare-
up of desirable bacterial activity,
which not only results in the
eventual release of soluble
nitrogen, sulphur and phosphorus
from the fresh organic-matter
itself, but assists in the break-
down or mineralisation of the
inert organic-mdtter already in
the soil.
In other words, renovation,
like the ploughing-under of a
green-manure crop, exploits some
of the store of fertility lying
dormant in the soil.
Exploit is perhaps the wrong
word—it is rather a case of take
and give back, for the reserves of
soil organic-matter are soon
replenished, and even increased,
through the medium of the extra
vigor of the pasture.
I anticipate that pasture-
renovation will ‘ become a fasci-
nating study for the progressive
grazier. How often, how deep,
what time of the year, which
implement? There are many
unanswered questions.
Although only in its" second
year, the commercial sod-seeder
is not a new implement in my
mind, probably because I have
written and spoken about it sc
much. As reports come in and
examples of sod-seeding are seer


Mh
m
m
- i
\
/
rj •
Always a Favourite
Few “Show” events excite greater admiration and
interest than wood-chopping contests. Here we see
perfect co-ordination of muscle, brain and spirit, qualities
so vital to achievement in a competitive atmosphere.
Experience can be a telling factor under such conditions
—and in the business of banking. Having had a long and
extensive association with the development of Australian
industries, both primary and secondary, the National
Bank is at all times ready to assist their further progress.
For friendly service call at the *National Bank’s office
in the Hordern Pavilion, located near the main entrance gate.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Inc. in Vic.)
NOTHING EQUALS
m WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY g
w a rm ray
TRIPLE PURPOSE
SLOW COMBUSTION
AIR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
Latest Model (No. 2A) has
over 5,000 cu. ft heating
capacity, and gives full view
of blazing fire through open
or closed front. Modern
artistic appearance finished
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel and reasonably
priced.
m
I
m
a
M
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY
COSTS NOTHING
II
mem -
m
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Model No. 3 Super
De Luxe
•ir Larger Capacity —Over
8,000 cn. ft
+ Special large firebox for
long burning without
attention.
ig- Extra large hotplate for
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM HEATER
OF THEM ALL REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
'mm m m
WARMRAY
HEATING
TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented Heating
Tubes (illustrated above), which are built into the firebox.
The air in the room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even warmth in every part of
the room.
BURN WOOD FOR GREATEST EFFICIENCY
AND CLEANLINESS
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” 8L2217.
If unobtainable locally phone, write or call for
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents.
in the field, however, one realises
that here, too, we have a lot to
learn.
The principle of clover-estab-
lishment by sod-seeding appears
to have been widely accepted,
and results are generally success-
ful. The mat of clover develop-
ing in the second year after sod-
seeding gives added strength to
the contention that sod-seeding
is a quick and effective method
for getting country clovered, par-
ticularly new country carrying
only native-grasses.
The Pittman technique, or a
modification of it, using lime and
super, with inoculated seed, is a
necessary refinement on some
soils, and knowledge of this tech-
nique is becoming widespread.
Results have been more
variable with the sod-seeding of
grasses. Some good strikes have
been seen, particularly with the
rye-grasses, but there have also
been disappointments.
Some facts emerge. Sod-seed-
ing of grasses into unprepared
ground should be attempted only
where there is reasonable fertility
—either a natural fertility or one
developed through the medium
of clovers.
Do not attempt to sod-seed
grasses into a thick mat of native-
grasses, such as that formed by
red-grass or kangaroo-grass.
Competition is too strong and
soluble nitrogen too low. Reduc-
ing the competition and building-
up soluble nitrogen by some
form of cultivation is necessary
in such cases.
Seed grasses on the deep-side,
about Hin. below true soil-
surface, and make sure that the
grass-seed is covered with soil,
using an attachment trailing
behind each shoe, if necessary, to
pullback some soil into the
furrow.
Keep growth of the pasture
down by grazing before, during
and after seeding. The grass-
seedlings must not be cut off
from the light.
A further topic of current in-
terest in pasture-work is the
possible use of gypsum as a
fertiliser to correct sulphur-defi-
ciency. A superfine gypsum,
dehydrated and crushed, which
overcomes the difficulties experi-
enced in the storing and spread-
ing of the crude gypsum pre-
viously supplied, is now on the
market. It does not throw as far
as super, from a spinner, but
nevertheless can be spread over
the pasture without undue
trouble.
There is a regrettable tendency
on the part of some graziers- to
clutch at gypsum as a straw
which will eliminate the need to
purchase the more expensive
superphosphate, irrespective of
soil-type.
There is some definite evi-
dence that the basaltic soils, par-
ticularly in the north of N. S.
Wales, are relatively high in
phosphorus but low in sulphur,
and on these soils responses to
gypsum, in lieu of super., have
been very satisfactory—indeed,
on these soils gypsum could con-
ceivably take-over from super.
Reports of responses to gyp-
sum on soils other than those
derived from basalt have also
been received, again mainly from
the north. It is conceivable that
on these soils, and on others
in which the phosphate-level has
been built-up by a long history
of topdressing, gypsum can be
used instead of super.— if not
in every year, then one in two or
one in three —to maintain a satis-
factory balance of sulphur and
phosphorus in the soil at reduced
cost.
But let’s not delude ourselves
that gypsum will make a big hole
in the national superphosphate-
bill. On most properties insuffi-
cient super, is used, and there are
millions of acres of virgin
country which will require many
hundredweights of it before there
is any chance of gypsum coming
into the picture. On soil-types
indicated above, however, gyp-
sum is certainly worth a trial. It
could result in a considerably
reduced fertiliser-bill.
Science has given us so much
information in the past, particu-
larly in relation to pasture-nutri-
tion, that there has developed a
tendency to await scientific find-
ings and recommendations
before taking the plunge. Yet the
grazier has in his own hands the
ability to contribute much to the
formulation of scientific prac-
tice.
I am not unaware of the diffi-
culties of experimental work
during the seasonal rush, but
submit that a little thought and
planning on the part of
individual graziers could provide
the scientist or the agricultural
observer with much useful
information.
Take the example of gypsum.
It is quite impracticable for
scientists to conduct compre-
hensive field-trials on the multi-
tude of soil-types which might
respond to gypsum. It is a rela-
tively simple matter for the
individual grazier to put a strip
of superphosphate across a gyp-
sum-treated paddock, to try
rates of gypsum at |cwt., lcwt.
and 2cwt., and to leave untreated
strips as a control or comparison.
It is a good idea to mark such
strips with pegs, and to record
the treatments in a notebook.
Memory so often lets one down.
Simple experiments, such as
this are by no means infallible.
For example, stock may show a
preference for a certain treat-
ment and keep it grazed so hard
that its superiority is never
manifest.
But such simple experiments,
repeated over a large number of
farms, must nevertheless provide
much useful information, and the
trouble taken by the individual
grazier would almost certainly be
compensated for by the interest
developed. Some farm experi-
mental work is conducted at
present, but not nearly enough.
How often have I had to tell my
farmer friends, faced with a par-
ticular problem, that there is no
known answer and they must find
out for themselves by the trial-
and-error experimental method.
A most common query en-
countered is that relating to the
economics of pasture-improve-
ment. There is a tendency,
becoming noticeable since the
fall in wool-prices, to regard
pasture-improvement as a doubt-
ful economic investment. Per-
tinent figures on the subject are
scanty, and one can only make
the generalised statement that the
grazing-industry will be in a
sorry plight indeed when pasture-
improvement ceases to be a good
investment on sound country
with a sound climate.
Admittedly the economic
margin for improvement has
been whittled-away on some of
the “tiger” country, where clear-
ing-costs are high and the soil
slow to develop; but study and
application of the best existing
methods for pasture-establish-
ment and -management on sound
pasture-country must surely still
be worth while.
We have been somewhat
spoiled, too, by the run of excep-
tional seasons. Because of the
lush growth in both natural and
improved pastures, many pro-
perties have been understocked.
Natural pastures, on soils of
reasonable quality, have carried
very well, and the margin of
superiority of improved- over
unimproved-pastures has not
been as obvious as it might have
been.
Those graziers whose experi-
ence with improved-pastures goes
back some years will support the
contention that they are of most
value in the subnormal seasons.
Total production might not be
so high, but their relative con-
tribution to animal-health be-
comes much greater.
Subnormal seasons,\ unfortun-
ately, will come again, but one
good effect will be the better
appreciation of the merits of
our improved-pasture species.
Pasture - improvement and
-management requires much skill
and foresight, and while im-
proved-pastures do much to
eliminate the problem of feed-
quality and -shortage they also
introduce their own problems.
We never will have the answer
to all of them for all situations.
But we might consider the words
of Sir George Stapledon:
“Pasture is the world’s most
wonderful and most productive
crop, building wealth as valuable
below ground as above it.
Farmers in every country need
only realise that pasture is a crop,
and give it all the attention and
loving care that their instincts
lead them to give their crops,
and pasture-improvement will
become second-nature to them.
Thereafter, the world will
steadily become a sweeter,
stabler and more generous
habitation for the whole human
race.”


and raised sheep until he came
to Sydney to manage his father’s
estate. He has been a councillor
since 1932, and has been chair-
man of the agricultural-
committee for 12 years. He’s
also chairman of N.S.W. Malt-
ing Co. Among other work of
the committee, he mentioned the
very important field-competi-
tions, run in conjunction with
the Department of Agriculture
F. A. McINTOSH; councillor;
noted Ayrshire-breeder
and country show-societies,
which go on throughout the
year: farm and fodder, wheat,
maize.
Anthony Hordern, senior, is
chairman of both the cattle
committee and the finance
committee. He is 67, and has
been active in R.A.S. affairs for
45 years “or better.” He has
been a vice-president for about
20 years. Asked what his early
jobs with the society had been,
he said “runner, office-boy, any-
thing that was going.” He then
said that the R.A.S. is “a pure
democracy—you work your way
up.” Later, to another com-
ment on the time necessary for
council meetings and the like,
he said, emphatically: “It is a
great honor to belong to the
R.A.S. council.”
This conversation took place
at his Double Bay home, in an
office hung with framed memen-
toes of his career in breeding,
while Dubois sketched him
under fluorescent light. (“Wool-
classers in England prefer it to
daylight.”) Behind his head, a
group of Mungadal rams; to
his right, a long panel of Milton
Park Shorthorns, ending with a
daughter and granddaughter of
Martha the Fifth (“neither ever
beaten in the show-ring”).
Martha the Fifth was one of his
early importations, about 1911,
and her blood runs through
some of the best of the breed.
These early importations of
Beef Shorthorns by Anthony
Hordern changed the breed in
Australia, from the long-legged
“good walkers” then popular, to
the modern type of beast. Duke
of Hampton; Master Key;
Doune Monarch; a “very good
white bull” whose name has
slipped from memory for the
moment; Rockcliff Canning, “a
very successful sire, most of
whose progeny went to Queens- '
land.”
Master Key was generally
considered the best Shorthorn
bull ever to come to Australia.
Erimus Intrepid, supreme grand
champion bull at the 1955 Royal
Show of England, now at
Anthony Hordern, junior’s,
Round Hill stud, near Culcairn,
is today being talked of as in
the same class: on appearance,
perhaps, Erimus Intrepid is
better than Master Key. But
the proof of a bull’s greatness
is its get.
Round Hill is a new stud—
interesting to speculate what may
come from it.
Anthony Hordern, senior, dis-
posed of his Shorthorns some 20
years ago. Now he breeds
Merinos at Mungadal, Romney
Marsh at Wingadal and Poll
Herefords at Milton Park. He
started the Poll Hereford stud
with the importation of Wood-
row the First and a few cows
from the U.S.A., joined the im-
ported bull with Golf Hill and
Reynolds horned Herefords and
bred for Polls. Genetically, the
poll is the dominant factor.
He’s bred just about every-
thing in the livestock line:
Shorthorns, Poll Shorthorns,
Herefords, Poll Herefords;
Guernseys (when this stud was
dispersed, most of the cattle went
to Captain Payne, in Victoria, a
leading Guernsey breeder).
So much for cattle. But he
has also bred Clydesdales, polo-
ponies and Welsh ponies ; his
imported stallion, Greylight, was
probably the most famous Welsh
pony in the world. Also,
budgerigars, racing-pigeons and
canaries ; and he is one of the
few to have successfully bred
Mandarin ducks in this country.
Total cattle-entries after War I
were 900, Mr. Hordern, said.
This year they were 2000—more
than that, really ; they had been
pruned - down. Entries were
growing every year, and this
would create problems. Policy
on curtailment of numbers would
have to be worked-out.
Sydney Show is not only an
exhibition of cattle; it has a
“terrific market-value.” Cattle-
men come here from all over
Australia, and from New Zea-
land. “Personally, I would like
to see it left as it is, an exhibi-
tion and a sale-ring.”
Edmund Strathmore Playfair,
chairman of the other key-
committee, building-and-works,
has, by virtue of that position,
had a good deal to do with the
new building to house a part of
the French Exhibition (the
society put in £50,000, half the
cost, and have a permanent
building). Also, he’s had a lot
to do with the master-plan for
improving accommodation at the
Showground, progressively, over
the years; and with similar
things.
He is also chairman of the
committee concerned with fat-
lambs and carcass-exhibits, and
is on the committees handling
finance, horses, catering and
entertaining, and cattle. He is
a director of Thomas Playfair
Pty., Ltd., providores and meat-
exporters, founded by his grand-
father in 1860.
Like the R.A.S. president,
Strath Playfair is an A.J.C.
committeeman, and his family
has been connected with the
R.A.S. for many years. A
gunner when he sailed from
E. A. SOUTHEE; vice-presi-
dent; chairman of scholarship
and education
Australia with the first A.1.F.,
he was wounded, collected a
“mention” and was a staff-
captain with 2nd Div. Arty.
Leaving the councillors for a
moment to consider some of the
executive-officers, Lieut.-General
Sir Frank Berryman, K.C.V.O.
C. 8., C.8.E., D. 5.0., U.S. Medal
of Freedom, was appointed chief
executive-officer in May, 1954.
By then, apart from purely Army
appointments, he had held two
major organising posts: direc-
tor qf the Commonwealth Jubi-
lee celebrations in 1951 and
organising - chief during the
Royal visit in 1954.
Graduated from Duntroon
just before War 1, artillery
subaltern, rising to brigade-
major with the 7th Infantry
Brigade, he was wounded in
France and collected D.S.O.
and “mention.” Between wars
he attended the Military College
of Science and the Staff College,
Camberley, was at Australia
House for three years, came
back to Australia to various staff
jobs.
Chief Staff Officer, Sixth
Divvy, early in War II he
planned attacks on Bardia and
Tobruk; commanded Seventh
Divvy Artillery in Syria and the
Berry, Force in the recapture of
Merdjayoun. Blarney made him
senior general-staff officer in
New Guinea, with the rank of
Major-General. He planned the
Lae-Nadzab operations, and in
November, 1943, took command
of the 2nd Australian Corps for
the Finschafen-Huon campaign.
He went to Lieut.-General in
January, 1944, took command of
the Ist Australian Corps three
months later, in July was
appointed Chief of Staff, A.M.F.,
and went to MacArthur’s head-
quarters,'where he was respons-
ible for overall co-ordination of
Australian with American forces
in the South-West Pacific area.
In March, 1946, he took-over
as General Officer Commanding,
Eastern Command, where his in-
fluence was immediately felt in
a conscious education of troops
for citizenship, with charity-
drives and gardening, tree-plant-
ing and the like, as notable
features. There were scoffers,
but a good many barracks apd *
drill-halls look the better for his
efforts. He is, incidentally, a
member of the English society,
Men of the Trees. He’s a
director of Felt and Textiles
and a trustee of Mutual Life
and Citizens.
Anthony William Skidmore,
F. 1.1.5.- A.CI.S., has been
assistant-secretary and account-
ant of the R.A.S. since 1934
(General Berryman is director-
secretary). English-born, with
considerable experience of
accountancy in England and the
Dutch East Indies, he joined the
society in 1922 as an accountant.
He’s held many honorary
appointments with various com-
mittees since then.
His work, in the main, is the
supervising of the society’s
financial affairs, and even apart
from the annual Show it’s a big
business. There’s always some-
thing going on at the Show-
ground : Sheep Show, ram-sales,
various manufacturers’ exhibi-
tions, car-racing, dog-shows.
The Showground, too, is used
to store a sizeable part of Aus-
tralia’s wool-clip. And during
War II “Skid” had a big job
handling the accountancy side
of requisitioned cargoes landed
from Allied ships—total valua-
tion, some £53 million ; this was
a Commonwealth Government
appointment.
Robert Cecil Hanlon has been
registrar since last year. He was
junior partner in a produce-firm
for some years, went into the
wholesale-furniture business as a
factory-manager, then became
buyer and assistant-manager to
a retail-furniture warehouse. He
was recruited into the R.A.S., as
assistant-registrar, after War 11,
in which he had six years with
the R.A.A.F.
C. R. Tennant has been
engineer-superintendent of the
R.A.S. since the position was
created in 1938. A Melbourne
Uni. graduate of civil- and elec-
trical-engineering, he is also a
qualified local - government
engineer, and he took his
Diploma of Commerce at Sydney
University.
Before joining the R.A.S. he
had been a draftsman for the
Sydney Harbor Bridge and a
structural-engineer with Sydney
County Council.
Fitting stock into
non-expanding ac-
commodation is one
of the obvious wor-
ries of C.R.’s job.
Then there are,
throughout the year,
all the other things
—motor-shows, fur-
niture - exhibitions,
speedway and what-
not, and the struc-
tural problems that
go with them. He’s
responsible for rou-
tine maintenance of
everything within the
71| - acre Show-
ground ; directs a
Showground staff
that varies from
about 60 permanents
to a total of 600
during the Easter
Show.
Apart from those
mentioned, there are
executive - officers
whose work, taken
separately, explains
a good deal of the
success of the Royal
Easter Show. In-
stance the detailed work of pre-
paring the catalogues, cards and
the like, which all comes under
the registrar’s department.
Breed-societies come within the
same department.
The fact that the R.A.S. has
taken-over the secretarial work
for them has meant a great deal
to breed-societies. In 1922 the
R.A.S. had its first client in this
field —the Federal Council of
the Jersey Society, which paid
£75 for the service. Today there
are only three State breed-
J. D. MACLEOD; councillor;
polo-organiser
societies outside the R.A.S.
organisation.
Apart from the service to these
societies—if each had to main-
tain a separate office, the cost,
with rent and salaries, would
make an impressive total —there
is the interesting point that, by
virtue of this work, the R.A.S.
has trained successive teams of
specialists ovfer the years. And
this applies to other phases of
the society’s work. Country
shows and other Royals benefit
by this specialised training.
Liaison with other Royals, and
with country shows, is informal.
There are several links with
country shows—e.g., the various
field-competitions ; and a number
of R.A.S. councillors are also
very active on their district show-
societies. Visits by councillors,
and executive-officers to country
shows, visits by district show-
presidents to the Easter Show,
social functions and the like,
keep the liaison effective.
The R.A.S. president often
opens district shows. Similarly,
with the Royals. There are a
number of Show notables from
other States (particularly Vic-
toria and Queensland) at this
Easter Show.
Consider, in this liaison con-
nection, the R.A.S. team that
attended last year’s Brisbane
Exhibition. Apart from the pre-
sident, the director and Vincent
Fairfax, there were the fol-
lowing :
W. A. Chaffey, councillor. Since
1940 Country-party member for
A. W. SKIDMORE, assistant-secretary
(looks after the cash side —and much
more)
Tamworth in the State House
(succeeding his father, former
Chief-Secretary), W.A. went
from King’s to Hawkesbury
Agricultural College, took the
H.D.A.; knocked-round getting
experience on stations in N.S.W.
and Queensland; joined the
A.I.F. a year after getting into
Parliament: two “mentions” and
U.S. Bronze Star.
R. Watson Hewett, councillor.
Leading Jersey-breeder, Royal
Show judge, former president of
the Australian Jersey Herd
Society.
Wallace A. Meares, council-
lor. From Forbes. A few years
back Meares and another pre-
sent-day R.A.S. councillor repre-
sented their State overseas as
progressive young farmers.
D. G. Munro, vice-president.
From Merriwa. Well-known
breeder of Shorthorns and Poll
Shorthorns, cattle-judge and
polo-man.
Raymond Reynolds, vice-presi-
dent. Hobartville, Richmond;
leading Hereford-breeder, also
breeds thoroughbred horses.
Judged Herefords at Brisbane,
and but for an illness would have
judged blood-horses, too. Has
been invited to judge Herefords
in England:
C. A. M. Ross, councillor.
From Glen Innes ; nephew of the
late Sir Colin Sinclair. Breeder
in the Aberdeen-Angus line;
judge of light horses.
D. H. Robertson, councillor.
From Scone. Poll Shorthorns.
Rodeo-steward at Sydney Royal.
Graham F. Shirley, councillor.
R.A.S. representative on Junior
Farmers’ council. Federal pre-
sident, A.I.S. Society; former
president, Australian Pig
Society. One of the pioneers of
the Canadian-type Berkshire pig
in Australia. He recently sold
Camelot stud, at Penrith. Gov-
erning-director, Drummond and
Shirley Pty., Ltd. Son of the
late George Shirley, artificial-
fertiliser pioneer, who was him-
self a life-member of the R.A.S.
R. (Dolf) Schmidt, councillor.
Manager of the Peel River pas-
toral concern. Breeder of Poll
Shorthorns and Santa Gertrudis.
There is another link with
district show-societies in the
person of Allan Pickering, R.A.S.
councillor and hon. sec. of the
Agricultural Societies’ Council
of Country Shows.
The career of another R.A.S.
vice-president, N.S.W. Country-
party leader “Mick” Bruxner,
D. Chev. Legion of Honor,
grazier, and erstwhile Light
Horseman of Gallipoli, Egypt,
Palestine and Syria, must be
sufficiently well known not to
need repetition here. He is on
several committees —the horses,
building-and-works, the wood-
chopping. He hails, of course,
from Tenterfield.
Career and qualifications of
E. A. Southee, include his being
former principal of Hawkesbury
Agricultural College, 1955 Farrer
Medallist, 1913 Rhodes Scholar.
Studies interrupted by service
with the British Army from 1914
(Continued on page 38)


Within approximately
half-an-hour of mark-
ing and tailing by
Elastrator Rubber
Rings lambs show no
signs of distress and
there is no difference
in friskiness between
the wethers fitted with
the rings and the
ewes. Here is definite
proof that the use of
the rings causes prac-
tically no set-back or
shock.
Milk
Production
Increased
Tri-Cal-Os is a most valuable mineral
supplement in stock feeding. Given to dairy
cows in the dry period means profitable
milking for four or five months longer.
Tri-Cal-Os is bone flour (containing 65 °/o
tricalcic phosphate), and is very easily
digested and assimilated.
OS
OM.
e©***
•ML
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRLCALCiC PHOSPHATE
4ajr particular* gladly supplied ■ —
W«t« to DAVIS GELATINE: GAO Bo* 3583.
SYDNEY G-GAjO. Box 4056. MELBOURNE • GAO.
800 H2F. ADELAIDE ••GAO.BooTSBK. BRISBANE
• GAO. 80. 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK £ STATION AGENTS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
"DARZCOS."
BEEF-CATTLE AT SYDNEY
AT the Sydney Royal Show
judges in each beef-cattle
section made practically the same
comment —“They are better than
ever.” Studs from four States
demonstrated that the parent-
stock is here to breed the type of
young, well-grown, • succulent
beef needed on world markets.
Herefords
One of England’s most famous
cattlemen, Captain R. S. de
Quincey Quincey, of The Vern,
Marden, Hereford, made the long
journey to judge the “white-
faces.” He was somewhat reti-
cent to the press in his remarks,
but apparently the cattle “were
what lie had expected to find.”
In the bull classes, three of
the first-prize winners, two
second-prize winners and one
third-prize winner were by Vern
sires. One (in an uncontested
class) was an imported Vern
bull.
He awarded the champion-
ribbon in the male section to the
junior-champion, South Boorook
Brimful, exhibited by J. R. Allen,
of Mortlake (Vic.). Brimful is
considered to be one of the most
outstanding representatives of
the breed seen on Sydney Show-
ground.
Experienced observers con-
sider he will grow into a better
bull than his sire, South Boorook
Brimfield, the 1954 champion,
sold for the all-breeds Australian-
record price of 6700gns.
He is one of the very few
calves left at South Boorook by
Brimfield before that bull was
sold to J. F. and S. Vickery, of
Bective, Tamworth (N.S.W.).
Hie N.S.W. Myall stud of
Fenwick Bros., Glendon Brook,
took their Myall Dermott, by
Vern Dior (imp.), through to win
both the reserve junior-champion
and the reserve championship.
He was second in his class to the
champion, who, incidentally, is
also of Vern blood two genera-
tions bade.
A most unusual step was taken
by the judge when judging the
male championships. He was so
taken with Melbourne champion
South Boorook Carlton, by Vern
Australia (imp.), that he asked
the stewards to award him a
special championship. That is,
a championship apart from the
major award and the reserve
championship.
The Hereford females were
really delightful. They showed
style, and plenty of breed-
character. Here, once again, Cap-
tain de Quincey Quincey showed
a preference for the younger
stock, taking the junior-champion
through to the championship.
She was Turee Floss sth, shown
by Turee Station, Coo 1 a h
(N.S.W.). She, too, was by an
imported bull, Astwood Samson ;
in fact, it was a notable feature
of all breeds, particularly the
Herefords and Shorthorns, that a
large proportion of the entries
were by imported sires.
Well-known Miss Thelma Mc-
Master, of Dalkeith, Cassilis
(N.S.W.), had a popular win
with her Dalkeith Carmen 4th
(by Dalkeith Raymond), which
took the reserve junior-
championship.
The reserve female-champion-
ship went to another N.S.W.
stud, Timor of Timor White
Bros., Murrurundi. She was
Timor Princess Royal 42nd, by
Cuppa Courageous.
Turee won the sire’s progeny
group with a team sired by Ast-
wood Samson (imp.).
Shorthorns
Victorian judge L. M. Dug-
dale, Noorilim, Murchison East,
judged what he considered the
best display of quality-Short-
horns seen in Sydney. They
were indeed magnificent.
In the male classes, young
blood again took the day. Con-
sistently successful exhibitor,
Mrs. D. R. McCaughey, of
Wagga (N.S.W.), won both the
junior-champion and champion-
ship ribbons with the winner of
the under-18-months class, Bor-
ambola Jaspar, by Calrossie
Tranquil (imp.). Jaspar, a red,
was the ideal “modern” type.
He was short in the leg, very
well put together, showed excel-
lent lines, and was full of quality.
He won in a class of 46, one
of the strongest lineouts of the
breed for quality yet seen on the
ground.
The Kyivanna stud of F.
Hood, from the border-town of
Albury (N.S.W-), won the re-
serve junior-championship with
a well-grown white bull, Ky-
wanna Ghost, by Erimus Horatio
(imp.). He won the strong
under-12-months class.
A Victorian won the reserve
male-championship—J. Kernel-
field, of Woodend, winning it
with Wongala Hall Mark, a red,
sired by Cruggleton Pandelus
(imp.) and winner of the under-
two-years class.
Wongala cemented this victory
by taking both the reserve
junior-female-championship and
the reserve female-championship.
The junior was a red, Wongala
Princess Marjoram, and the
senior a roan, Wongala Clara
4th, both by Cruggleton Pan-
delus (imp.).
The junior-female-champion-
ship was won by the Kyalla stud
of Kyalla Pty., Ltd., Greenwich
Park, Towrang (N.S.W.). Kyalla
has done much for the breed in
this country by buying some of
the highest-priced Shorthorns
available in the world and bring-
ing .them to Australia. The
junior was Greenwich Lustre
Gabriel, by Calrossie Royal
Standard (imp.).
Another Victorian stud won
the major female-award. That
was the Kelso stud of G. Starritt
and Son, North West Moo-
roopna, Tatura. This beautiful
female had a true breeder’s head,
was very good in the barrel and
showed plenty of breed-quality.
She was Kelso Myrtle, by
Belinda Cupbearer (imp. in
dam).
The sire’s-progeny group was
won by Mr. Kemelfield with a
team sired by Cruggleton Pan-
delus (imp.).
Every major-prize winner was
by an imported bull.
Poll Shorthorns
The Poll Shorthorns showed
great improvement both in
quality and colors. This year
also provided a very successful
comeback to the show-ring for
Sir Walter Merriman, whose
Merryville Pty., Ltd., exhibited
the junior-champion, champion
and reserve-champion bulls and
the reserve junior - champion
female.
Once again a youngster went
through to the championship.
Judged by Jack Carter, of
Weddin Shorthorn stud, Grenfell
(N.S.W.), the junior-champion
and champion was Merryville
Laddie 3rd (P), a red by
Woomargama Quiberon. Laddie
3rd (P) was an outstanding indi-
vidual, showing exceptional
scale, good length and breadth,
great bone and good lines.
To win the championship-
award he defeated last year’s
champion, Bogan Monarch (P),
a huge roan that would have
been one of the largest and
heaviest bulls on the ground. He
was also shown by Merryville
Pty., Ltd., and was awarded the
reserve-championship.
The reserve junior-champion
was second in his class to the
champion. This was the under-
-18-months class, in which there
were 26 entries. He was a most
attractive red, Dalguise Supreme
(P), by Dalguise Dictator, and
shown by P. D. and M. P. Bate,
of Warwick (Q.).
In the female classes the
junior-champion went on to win
the reserve championship. She
was Keirstone Kilomar (P), a
white by Chapelton Pilot (imp.),
exhibited by J. W. and G. C.
Perry, of Tarana (N.S.W.).
The champion female was a
picture. A light roan, she was
beautifully shaped, had a sweet
head and was a good mover. She
was Kyeamba Duchess (P), by
Kaluga Royal Raider (P), from
the new Department of Agricul-
ture stud at Wagga Agricultural
College. She also won the
supreme-champion award.
The reserve junior-champion
was shown by Merryville Pty.,
Ltd., and was second in her class
to the junior-champion. She was
Merryville Mountain Mistress
10th (P), a red, by Woomargama
Quiberon.
The sire’s-progeny'group was
also won by Merryville, with a
team sired by Woomargama
Quiberon.
Aberdeen Angus
The New Zealand judge of
the large Aberdeen Angus sec-
tion said the exhibits were among
the best specimens of the breed
he had seen. He was A. Mc-
Gaffin, jnr., of Brooklands,
Elsthorpe. A young man, he
went about his task in a work-
manlike manner. Judging occu-
pied one-and-a-half days.
Championships were well
divided, although the Narran-
gullen stud did particularly well.
The Department of Agricul-
ture’s Trangie stud won the
supreme award with' the cham-
pion bull, Trangie Erison 46th,
by Erison of Harviestoun (imp.).
Trangie Erison 46th was
junior-champion bull at Sydney
in 1955. Mr. McGaffin said the
award was very hard to make,
and it had only been the bull’s
extremely smooth fleshing which
won him the day.
The reserve-champion was
from the same class as the
supreme-champion. He was
Booroomooka X-Ilarate, by
Prince Melos of Kincardine
(imp.), exhibited by H. G.
Munro, of Booroomooka stud,
Bingara (N.S.W.). Booroomooka
is one of the most successful
show studs of the breed in the
State.
Booroomooka also exhibited
the junior-champion, an out-
standing calf, Booroomooka
Yeast, also by Prince Melos of
Kincardine (imp.).
The reserve junior-champion
was from the same class, shown
by Estate G. T. Reid, Narran-
gullen, Yass (N.S.W.). He was
Narrangullen Jazbo, by Black
Kilham of Mangatoro (imp.,
N.Z.).
Kahlua’s team of females from
the stud of Kahlua Pastoral Co.,
Bowral (N.S.W.), owned by
Clifford Minter, was a credit to
the breeder. The champion cow
was winner of the under-three-
years class. She was matronly,
beautifully - shaped Kahlua
Anthonette 10th, by Kahlua Sir
Francis.
The reserve-champion was
Narrangullen Romantica, by
Black Kilham of Mangatoro
(imp., N.Z.), exhibited by Estate
G. v T. Reid, which also showed
the junior-champion female,
Narrangullen Geranium 2nd,
another by the imported New
Zealand bull,
The reserve junior-champion
female was shown by W. A.
Scott, of Milong, Young
(N.S.W.). She was Milong Yule-
tide, by Milong Torpedo, winner
of the under-15-months class,
The sire’s-progeny group was
won by Mr. Munro’s team, sired
by Prince Melos of Kincardine
(imp.),
Devons
The big, red Devons again
made a fine showing. Until re-
cently this ancient breed had
only a limited following in Aus-
tralia, but in recent years more
and more Devon bulls are being
used for crossing-purposes. They
are particularly popular in the
Grafton (N.S.W.) district, where
they are crossed with Shorthorns
and dairy-breeds.
Well-known Victorian judge
H. W. Yelland, of Glentrevor,
Newlyn, said the champion bull
was the best specimen of the
breed he had handled. He was
a tremendously growthy bull,
showing great depth, good head
and eye, very smoothly fleshed
and carrying his flesh well down
the hind-legs.
He was Ban Ban Masterman,
by Ban Ban Searchlight, exhibi-
ted by Estate C. D. Judge, Ban
Ban station, Ben Lomond
(N.S.W.), winner of the aged-bull
class.
In this section well-known
names were again prominent
among the prizewinners Ban
Ban, Table Top, and the famous
parent-stud of Havilah. Also the
new stud, Gibraltar Pty., Ltd.
Red Polls
The dual-purpose Red Polls
made a very popular display.
They were judged by young I. T.
Mclntosh, of Burnwood, Merri-
gum (Vic.).
Although Victorian and New
South Wales breeders have some
divergence of opinion on the
most desirable type (in N.S.W.
they like them to be more
“beefy” than they do in the
south), the breed is going ahead.
More and more small graziers
are using this poll-breed to breed
vealers, while they are being
used in increasing numbers in
the Northern Territory, where
they are being crossed with
Shorthorns, mainly to breed the
horns off the resultant steers.
The champion bull was a mag-
nificent specimen, exhibited by
well - known show - supporters,
Perry Bros,, of Bundaleer,
Tarana (N.S.W.). He was
Bundaleer Bold Ballad (by
Bundaleer Bombastic), winner of
the aged-bull class. He showed
great length, depth and spring
of rib, and had a true sire’s
head and outlook.
Perry Bros., Brigadier Hurst,
of Larkhill, Goulburn (N.S.W.),
and the western N.S.W. breeders,
H. and I. Heckendorf, of
Trangie, shared the major prizes.
Galloways
A small team of Galloways,
mostly blacks, attracted atten-
tion. New to this country, they
are a hardy, hill breed, and can
be dun-colored or black. They
are particularly thrifty cattle,
and are being tried on some of
the rougher and poorly-grassed
N.S.W. tableland-country.
There were only two classes
and two exhibitors, both N.S.W.
They were H. E. F. Kater, of
Swatchfield, Oberon, and W. G.
Coward, of Wtirialpa, Hernani.
Mr. Kater won both the bull-
and female-classes, with Mr.
Coward’s entry taking second-
prize in the female-class.
When this went to press, judg-
ing of the Poll Herefords and
Santa Gertrudis was still-
going on.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(18/3/’S6)
As a result of sunspot-activity, further heavy rains may
occur in N.S.W. between March 24 and March 26 [see date
of writing], and should this activity persist there is every
likelihood that the moderate rains which are indicated on
the coast and portion of the tablelands will be intensified.
At date of writing, this is still uncertain, and will not be
clarified for another week.
In Queensland, heavy rains are likely to continue on
the central and north Coasts, and these should extend into
part of the central west, but rain should be light to
moderate elsewhere.
The inland areas of Victoria should be confined to light
rain, but reasonably good falls should occur in the southern
half of the State.
Light to moderate, patchy rains may occur in South
Australia during April, with the season commencing in May.
In W.A., heavy rain should be experienced in the West
Kimberleys, De Grey and Fortes cue, and good rain should
extend into part of the south-east and lower-south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


7/fAr,
mm
%
Ullil*
v.
No other cooker gives you
FREE HOT WATER
and the advantages of
modern city cooking
:
© Fully VITREOUS Enamelled ovens © Amazing speed of heating-up
i © Separate controls for hotplate and oven heat
ifhnpl "-4GD
CONTINUOUS BURNING INSULATED COOKER AND WATER HEATER
NO OTHER COOKER OFFERS SO MU
FREE HOT WATER. Connected to your
home hot water service there is steaming
hot water for a 40-gallon cylinder,
enough for all normal household needs.
MORE COOKING SPACE.
COMPRESSED INSULA-
TION allows greater cook-
ing area. The big hotplate
has room enough for six
6" saucepans.
REMOVABLE HOTPLATE
COVER. The fully insu-
lated cover can be fully
removed or only partly so
to expose any portion of
the hotplate.
CONVENIENT COOKING
HEIGHT. No special base
is required and the Car-
michael “400” can be in-
stalled on any type of
floor. •
AMAZING ECONOMY
AND FLEXIBILITY. The
Carmiohael “400” can
even be allowed to go out
overnight as the hotplate
can reach full cooking in
15 minutes from cold.
FULLY ENAMELLED
OVEN. Unequalled for
size or cooking perfection,
the vitreous enamelled
oven cleans with a wipe.
Burns on any solid fuel.
r
Naturally it cooks perfectly ... it’s a Carmichael
Makers of fine fuel stoves since 1892. A Unit LMA.IL Limited.
Write today for free illustrated literature to:
W. T. Carmichael Ltd., Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W. Buzacott (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
W. T. Carmichael Ltd., Brisbane and Hobart. James Balfour & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne Adelaide Perth.
Also at Email Display Centre, 115 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Is Divorce.
TO STUART NEIL WATSON late of 1
Boundary Street Chippendale. — TAKE
NOTICE that LORNA EILEEN WATSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 613
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out- just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance m the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King
Sydney by the 1st June 1956 and obtain
a copy of this Petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE, GILUS & CO.,
Town Agents for NEVILLE G. GREEN,
Solicitor, Cofi’s Harbour.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
to 1918, a major at the finish,
and 0.8. E. A vice-president, he
serves on several R.A.S. com-
mittees, and is chairman of the
committee concerned with
scholarship and education.
Charles Moses, 0.8. E., g.-m.
of the A.8.C., was a Sandhurst
graduate and British Regular
Army officer before he took to
broadcasting. He joined the
A.I.F. as a lieutenant in 1940,
and was a lieutenant-colonel two
years later. He’s a councillor
and, among other R.A.S.
interests, he’s on the wood-
chopping-committee.
Chairman of the wood-
choppipg - committee, Norman
Edward Woods, reckons he’s
not in Charles Moses’s class as
an axeman, but knows one end
of an axe from another, mainly
from work on a property at
Tarcutta. A breezy personality,
he’s 60, but doesn’t look it: in
fact, he looks as if he could still
swing a fair axe.
An Enzedder by birth, he
served with the B.E.F. in War I,
Royal Engineers, and finished
the war as a pilot with the Royal
Naval Air Service. After the
war, went on the Tarcutta
property, where he had a Corrie-
dale-stud.
He’s an Associate of the
Royal College of Science and of
the Royal Institute of Chemistry,
and this training led to his giving
up the land to take a more active
part in the management of the
family-business of W. E. Woods,
Ltd. (“Woods’ Great Peppermint
Cure”), of which he’s now
managing-director. In War II
he was with the A.T.C.,
Assistant C. 0., No. 2 Wing.
He told an interesting story of
the organisation behind the
woodchopping events; organisa-
tion which includes runoffs
every 20 minutes, and an elec-
tronic device-designed by the
engineer-superintendent in con-
sultation with P.M.G. experts —
to check finishes. Competitors
for this year’s woodchopping at
the Royal come from the North
Coast, South Coast, central
N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria,
Western Australia; one from
New Zealand.
Their committee-chairman is
enthusiastic about the type of
man woodchopping attracts:
“Great fellows —great sportsmen
—great athletes.”
Geoff Whiddon, chairman of
the horticultural- and acting-
chairman of the handcrafts-
committee, is on about six com-
mittees in all. Now 47, he was
a steward at the age of 14, start-
ing in the dog-sections, then
going to the ring. He’s chair-
man -of directors of Whiddon
Pty., Ltd., wool-merchants.
j. R. Graham, chairman of
the comm i ttee that looks after
dairy-produce, has been on the
iFtaa vatk works
“ un “ ee L dairving
, ’ w , ot -
P- : 1Q _ 7
Ha kesbury .
Another younger man, Hugh
Ross, is a Harden-district
*»». Sheep He has done
a lot ot useful work witn ms-
district show-society - which
illustrates the manner m which
councillors are often recruited.
He and his wife leave for Eng-
land immediately after the
Show. The fact that a good
many councillors go overseas,
on their own account, but at
the same time with an eye open
for anything of R.A.S. interest,
is another thing which contri-
butes to the general picture of
an efficient organisation. This
point was made by a man who
knew the organisation well.
There is no polo-committee,
though polo is one of the
features of the Easter Show.
James Dunlop MacLeod—coun-
cillor, chairman and managing-
director of Pitt, Son and
Badgery—organises it. He’s
been interested in horses and
had land interests most of his
life. He played first with the
Sydney Polo Club, then, fr6m
1930 to 1938, with Curtis and
Bob Skene in the famous Assa-
mander Club. Served in the
Middle East and New Guinea
in War 11, finishing as a captain,
He’s hon. sec. of the Australian
P° lg Courierl ; keen on racing^
Recently he sold his prop y
near Junee and took on
Fontenoy, at Adaminaby. He
S ays pasture-improvement has
worked wonders on that high
country.
Interviewed at the same
~ o- Graham Waddell
been a coun*
vice-oresident
er 20 y ears a vice presioen
tor eignt yeais 2*r
P , ™nrti/afri
8 y P, , y - ’
P® e y y ’." , ~
natural the conversation should
turn oacKwara a ume. lie
r . em f l ? D l e , rs ’ as a , Doy ’ J ‘ .J-
Archibald and Hopkins coming
to dine at his father s home His
F a ™* atner Jl ettle “ at uoiiecta
iw/. «is. lamer, L-oionei
G. W. Waddell, with his brother,
neid a lot or tana near tne-
arlll}8 ’ was cniet-inspector or
tft ®. oia ** an » ai Y as
‘ nB " comman , an ° f
division or - e
volunteers,
Sir Graham started his Corrie-
dale-stud some 20 years back,
and runs a ewe-and-lamb to the
acre on his property near Beth-
ungra. A retired M.L.C. and
former president of the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association, he was'
chairman of the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council for 10
years. He’s also chairman of
F. W. Williams and Co., Sisal-
kraft, and is on the boards of
Union Trustee Co., Graziers’
Co-op. Shearing Co., Colonial
Mutual Life, Pitt, Son and
Badgery, and Associated News-
papers.
■ Regarding the R.A.S., he said
he attributed its success, in large
part, to the quality of its presi-
dents : “I’ve served under
several, and they were all excep-
tional men.”
Thomas Brydone Macfar-
lane, R.A.S. vice-president, life-
governor of the N.S.W. Sheep
Breeders’ Association, and coun-
cillor of the Australian Corrie-
dale Sheepbreeders’ Association,
is, as well, a patron of the
Merriwa Bushmen’s Carnival,
and takes a keen interest in this
aspect of the Easter Show. He’s
on the horse-committee, and
when present writer met him at
R.A.S. h.q. in Macquarie-place ;
he was with a visitor from the
Philippines who wanted to im-
port some roughriders to those
parts.
His property, Cullingral, was
originally a grant to Gregory
Blaxland. The Macfarlane
Corriedale flock was founded in
1864, in New Zealand, in which
country this Macfarlane was
born in 1886.
Percival Stanley Willsallen has
been a councillor for 15 years,
a vice-president for the last few
years. His father took-up a
Gunnedah property, Gunnible,
in 1860, and it was in the family
until 1925, when Mr. Willsallen
took-over Widgeongully, near
Jugiong, which his son, Peter,
took-over when he came out of
the Army. Sydney director of
Goldsbrough Mort, Mr. Will-
sallen said heartily, “That, the
R.A.S., and bowls, are my main
interests.”' He’s on a number of
committees, including the cater-
ing-committee, of which he was
chairman for five years.
Two councillors, both typical
of today:—
Bill Fesq, managing-director
of Fesq and Co., wine-and-spirit
merchants, joined the council
last year. He has judged in the
R.A.S. spirit-sections, and for the
past six years has been on the
committee of the Wine and
Spirit Merchants’ Association of
N.S.W. In the R.A.N.V.R.
during War 11, mostly in the
North Sea and English Channel,
he sails a dragon-class yacht,
which he keeps at Rose Bay,
Sydney, and also has an ocean-
going boat, Fortuna. Has been
in the Hobart race seven times.
Fred Mclntosh, of Woodside
Park Ayrshire-stud, Berry, is in-
terested in the Boutflour sys-
tem of handling dairy-herds, and
has applied it here. He attended
the Royal Agricultural College,
Cirencester, and was one of the
men responsible for Professor
Boutflour (principal of the col-
lege) being invited here last
year. Mclntosh has been very
successful on the production
side —top herd of all breeds
1954-55. r
* * *
A cross-section, such as that
presented here —however sketchy
—of the men who make the
Royal Easter Show what it is—-
the greatest exhibition of its
kind in the world—gives some
indication of the scale and com-
plexity of the society.
The qualification “of its kind
is important. There are larger
parades of stock —at Chicago,
for instance —more impressive
industrial fairs (although, this
year, with the French Exhibition
thrown in, that side is pretty well
represented). But for an all-
round exhibition of stock, agri-
culture and industry, the Royal
Easter Show is the best of its
kind, anywhere. It also is held
over a longer period than any
other show.


INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Established 186#
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
05UIJJVA*
bbi^s
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLF.X ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
DAVIES ft COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
ney 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
in the
Future
In talks with officials of the United Nations
in New York recently, I was impressed with the
interest UNO is taking in the development of New
Guinea.
That island rim of Australia’s defence, held
partly in trust, is a substantial link between us and
the United Nations. And I believe that the res-
ponsibility we have accepted there is helping to
.strengthen our influence at the conference tables
of the world.
The protection and advancement of 183,500
square miles, in addition to our own huge continental
area, is no light task. The trusteeship covers 93,000
square miles of mainland and island groups, and
there are 90,500 square miles in the annexed
territory of Papua.
But because New Guinea is cast with us
geographically, and in latter years historically, its
development is woven as tightly into our destiny as
any part of the Australian continent itself.
In United States circles I sense a desire to see
New Guinea developed rapidly by the greater use
of modem machinery and aircraft. And that, to
me, seems to present Australia with a man-sized
challenge.
Certainly, mechanisation can supply many of
the answers on best use of New Guinea’s soil. Heli-
copters, which the Dutch are employing in the
western half of the island, can supplement the air-
lines that do brilliant service in transport, beyond
the barriers of jungle.
Whatever is done there, I agree, should be done
with all possible expedition. For the implications
of New Guinea are wider than the bringing of the
world’s second largest island to richer production
for its own sake; wider even than the territory’s
significance in the regional sphere in which
Australia is set.
The world has an interest in New Guinea and
in what*it can contribute to the future of mankind;
and it is looking to see how actively Australia
tackles the job.
S’
// flcisfu*^
were approximately £3 2s. of
current assets to meet each £ of
liabilities, as against £2 14s. a
year ago. External indebtedness
amounted to only ss. 2d. per £
of shareholders’ funds, compared
with 7s. lOd. in 1954.
Net asset cover for the 15s.
shares is 325. lOd.
Myer (S.A.), Ltd.
T^OLLO WING the placement
towards the end of last
year (at 7s. 6d. per unit) of
3,360,000 ss. ordinary stock
in Myer (S.A.), Ltd., the
new holding-company for Myer
Emporium (S.A.), Ltd., sales of
the scrip have been made on
Adelaide ’Change at around Bs.,
to give an immediate return of
6.2 p.c. on the 10 p.c. dividend
mentioned in the memorandum
to the sale.
The co. controls Adelaide’s
biggest department-store, and its
trading policy is modelled on
the pattern of the Melbourne
parent co., which places emphasis
on rapid turnover of stock at
a low margin of gross profit.
Last year turnover is reported
to have been above £l2 million,
and, on the basis of sales for
the six months to January 31,
this figure will be exceeded in the
1956 term. During the half-
year the rate of stock-turnover
also increased.
Myers of Melbourne formerly
owned all the £670,000 ordinary
capital of the Adelaide con-
cern, in exchange for which it
received £2,680,000 in Myer
(S.A.) scrip, equivalent to a three-
for-one bonus-issue. After the
placement, made through
Adelaide brokers Cutten and
Harvey, it still retained a control-
ling interest in the holding co. of
54 p.c. of the ord. shares, and has
an option over an additional
800,000 ss. shares at 6s. each.
This option is exercisable at any
time before October 1, 1956,
and in any new issue of scrip
made before then the Melbourne
co. retains the right to its pro-
portion of the issue as if the
option had been exercised.
For the last five of its 27
years net earnings of the trading
co. have been as follows:
July, Profit. Reserves.
A. &. B.
Pref. Ord.
7 p.c. 7i p.c.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 207,398 27,790 60,250 657,204
9 1/6 p.c.
1952.. 227,835 27,790 61,417- 795,832
From tax provision,
£lOO,OOO .. .. 895,832
Stock reserve appears,
£340,000 .. .. 1,235,832
p.c.
1953.. 302,818 27,790 83,760 1,427,110
17 i p.c.
1954.. 366,766 27,790 117,250 1,647,826
23J p.c.
1955.. 27,790 156,333 1,851,295
Expressed as a percentage of the
new co.’s ordinary capital, profit,
after paying the 7 p.c. pref.
charges, was equal to 6.7 p.c. in
1951, 7.5 p.c. in 1952, 10.3 p.c.
T 953, 12.6 p.c. 1954, and 13.4
p.c. in 1955.
The figures have been conser-
vatively stated, as indicated by
the disclosure of inner reserves
of £440,000 in 1953. On
adjusted figures the accountants
appointed to investigate the sale
gave the return of profit over the
last three years (including profits
of a subsidiary since March,
1955) as 10.4 p.c., 13.7 p.c. and
15.4 p.c., respectively.
Here are the balance-sheet
figures of the operating co.:
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. 397,000 397,000 397,000
Ord. .. 670,000 670,000 670,000
Reserves .. 1,427,110 1,647,826 1,861,295
Creditors,
etc. .. 921,540 969,489 1,141,123
Deposits-.. 240,692 221,117 182,666
Final
divs. .. 80,895 114,395 147,895
8.737.237 4,019,827 4,389,979
Freeholds 609,000 609,000 645,000
Plant, etc. 109,111 99,325 98,790
Shares,
deposits 50,000 90,389 115,000
Shares,
subsid. 72,000
Stock .. 1,787,985 2,042,163 1,862,465
Debtors .. 378,813 456,456 684,678
Due by
subsid. 18,732
Cash .. 802,328 722,494 898,314
3.737.237 4,019,827 4,389,979
During the year another £175,820
was held in cash (£898,314),
debtors rose £228,222, and stocks
were £179,698 lighter. Work-
ing-capital at the close of the
year stood £71,393 higher at
£1,987,505.
In their report, the investigat-
ing accountants drew attention
to freehold properties valued in
the group-accounts at £691,712.
Present values “considerably
exceed” this amount, and, if
written into the accounts, they
said, would substantially raise
net asset-backing.
Calculated on net tangible
assets at their book-value of
£2,900,434, cover for the ss.
shares is 4s. Bd.
Newbold Refractories
/"AVER the last 44 years the
growth of Newbold General
Refractories, Ltd., firebrick-
maker, has been parallel with
the development of the iron-
and-steel and glass industries in
New South Wales. Last term the
co. branched-out into the manu-
facture of roof-tiles and building-
bricks with the acquisition of
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd., a suc-
cessful Sydney company whose
origins date back to 1890.
Newbold was incorporated in
1912 as Newbold Silica Fire
Brick Co., Ltd., and it adopted
the present title in 1940 follow-
ing the acquisition of manufac-
turing-rights to special types of
firebricks developed by General
Refractories Co., of America.
To meet the greatly increased
postwar demands of secondary
industry the co. engaged in a
programme to expand the output
of its works, situated in N.S.W.
at Mayfield, near Newcastle, and
at Port Kembla, Thirroul and
Coniston, on the South coast,
financed by share-issues in 1947
(at 25 p.c. premium) and in 1953,
which brought in £351,000 in
share-capital and premium.
Over the final stages of the
programme profits began to
respond very well. On average
capital employed earnings in
1955 represented a return of 19.1
p.c., as compared with 14.5 p.c.
in 1954, 16.4 p.c. in 1953, 10.8
p.c. in 1952 and 9.9 p.c. in
1951:
Re-
June, Profit. , —Dividends— -v serves.
& £ £
1951.. 53,876 8 p.c. = 43,200 90,995
Profit sale fixed assets,
£18,106 109,101
1952.. 58,157 8 p.c. = 43,200 124,058
1953.. 93,061 8 „ ~ 45,360 171,759
1954.. 106,848 10 „ ~73,440 205,167
Assets revalued, £296,655 501,822
1955.. 152,567 10 p.c. = 80,000 574,379
Reserve capitalised,
£200,000 .. •• 374,379
The £152,557 profit earned last
year was written after providing
an unchanged £50,000 for depre-
ciation and £llO,OOO (up £25,000)
for taxation. Since June 30 the
co. has capitalised £200,000 of a
surplus of £296,655 created when
freehold-property values were
written-up during the year. The
new shares will rank equally for
dividends with the existing
capital of £BOO,OOO for the 1956
term. Maintenance of a 10 p.c.
distribution on the £1,000,000
capital would thus require
£52,557 less than was earned last
year.
Finances are quite com-
fortable :
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £756,000 £BOO,OOO
Reserves .. 205,167 574,8^9
Overdraft ..
Creditors .. 129,976 157,183
Tax provision .. 85,000 114,468
Final div. .. 45,360 40,000
£1,221,502 £1,686,030
Land, buildings,
plant .. 791,980 1,086,029
Shares subsidiary 88,000
Stock .. .. 170,366 166,571
Debtors .. 208,967 262,150
Cash .. .. 50,189 83,280
£1,221,502 £1,686,030
At June 30 there was a surplus
of £210,350 of liquid assets over
liabilities. Stocks were £3795 less
at £166,571, and debtors were a
little over 25 p.c. higher at
£262,150. Cash at £83,280 was
up £33,091.
The Goodlet and Smith pur-
chase is shown in the balance-
sheet, at cost, at £BB,OOO. In 1954
this co. made a profit of £3507,
a return on its capital of £22,000
of 15.9 p.c., or a shade under
4 p.c. on the price paid by New-
bold. The co. says it intends to
develop the subsidiary's brick-
making capacity.
Priced at 395. in , the share-
market, Newbold’s scrip returns
5.1 p.c. on a 10 p,p. div. basis.
On completion of the bonus-
issue net tangible cover for the
£1 shares was 275. 6d.
Mt. Perry Rutile
“Henri Marq”: If hopes are
realised in respect of rutile, Mt.
Perry (Q.) may, during 1956,
recover some of the prosperity
and vim it enjoyed in the early
nineteen-hundreds, when copper-
production was in full swing.
Since those days, except for
a few sporadic efforts on the
goldfields, and a little copper-
gouging (which, in a small way,
is still going on quite profitably),
no mining has been carried on.
Scheelite and uranium finds
proved but a speck-in-the-pan ;
the uranium find was rich but
“too small.”
During 1955 interest was again
aroused in the rutile potentialities
in an area on which, some few
years ago, exploratory work had
been done. Results justified
further investigation and geo-
logical survey.
One prospecting-lease was
granted in 1955 (104 acres), and
other applications for 35 and 160
acres were then applied for;
applications for larger leases are
pending.
On one area, “The Brown Spec”
(160 acres), a lode of 12ft. was
uncovered to a depth of 10ft.
This lode assayed 98 p.c. rutile
in the black and 97 p.c. in the
brown. The rock-formation gives
an assay of 24 p.c. - titanium-
dioxide, with up to 60 p.c. rutile.
Samples have been sent to the
United Kingdom and U.S.A.
Rutile “floaters” are scattered
all over a very big area and give
similar assays to the lode.
If the lode “lives,” and is
proved to a satisfactory depth,
it will be unique in Australia, as
the only known lode at present
being worked is in Mexico.
Heretofore, rutile has only been
associated in concentrates from
beach-sands. In 1954 Queensland
produced 21,925 tons.
Rutile, a titanium-dioxide, is
the basic raw material for the
production of titanium. It is
used principally to date for coat-
ing welding-rods, the manu-
facture of titanium-carbides,
alloys and in ceramic mixtures
such as porcelain-enamels.
Titanium, a relatively light
metal, with exceptional
mechanical properties up to 800
deg. F. and a high resistance to
corrosion, is principally used for
the construction of aircraft
frames and engines.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Climax to French Fortnight was the
gay Grand Bal Frangais at the Palaise de
Danse, St. Kilda. The menus, which came
from Paris, had an attractive Parisian
scene on the cover, and were printed in
French and English. The decor, which
Madame Bonabel contrived, was most
striking.
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
welcomed by French Consul M. Cyril Le
Bas de Plumetot and his wife, Senator G.
Gadolin (representing the French Gov-
ernment), and Mr. and Mrs. Eric Lampe.
The Premier and Mrs. Bolte and the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Sir Frank
and Lady Selleck) were also in the official
party.
Lady Brooks chose a bouffant white-
tulle gown with appliques of white lace;
the bodice featured a neckline cut wide
to the shoulders and embroidered with
opalescent beads, which were also fea-
tured on the hipline. She also wore a
diamond tiara and filmy white stole.
Peacock-blue faille was chosen by Mrs.
Bolte for her gown, and Madame Le Bas
de Plumetot wore a striking Grecian
gown, which bared one shoulder and was
of black chiffon. The skirt of Madame
Bonabel’s peacock-blue satin gown was
made full by a series of inverted pleats.
Special guests were the two visiting
French film-stars Kathrin Errard and
Barbara Laage, the latter’s choice a long,
slim skirt and high-necked tunic in ivory
satin. The Royal Women’s Hospital and
the French Benevolent Society will share
in the proceeds of the ball, which was
organised by the French Chamber of
Commerce, the French-Australian Asso-
ciation, and the Alliance Frangaise.
V V V
Admiral the Earl Mountbatten of
Burma and the Countess Mountbatten
will have a very busy stay in this city.
Invitations have been issued by the State
Government to a reception at the Royale
Ballroom on April 5. On April 6 the
combined Empire Societies will give a
reception in the University’s Union
House, and next morning (April 7) the
Lord Mayor will give a civic-reception at
the Town Hall. The Victoria League in
Victoria will entertain the Countess at
a late-aftemoon party, after she has
attended a special parade of St. John
Ambulance Brigade in the Alexandra
Gardens —she is Superintendent-in-Chief
of St. John Ambulance Brigade for the
British Empire.
# # V
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was setting for the marriage of Lorraine
Marie O’Halloran and John Allison.
Lorraine, who is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Tom O’Halloran, of Cam-
berwell, chose a pearl-grey duchesse-satin
gown that featured a fitted bodice, deep
folded-bateau neckline, a dropped waist-
line, and the skirt extending into a train
from a bustle. A plaited-satin circlet held
the fingertip tulle veil, and she carried a
bouquet of roses. Mrs. Francis Hallam
was matron-of-honor and Barbara Chalk
bridesmaid; they wore sea-green
duchesse-satin gowns, and matching satin
bows were worn in their hair, and they
carried golden roses. The ’groom is the
elder son of Sir John and Lady Allison,
of Kew. James Sullivan was best man
and his brother Christopher groomsman.
Reception was held at the home of the
bride’s parents.
☆ ☆ ☆
Having been invited by the committee
to assist in choosing the most beautiful
white gown worn at the White and Gold
dinner-dance at Ciro’s, this Letter, with
some misgivings, accepted, and really had
an unenviable job picking the winner.
This dinner-dance was organised by the
Wool Ball committee, a group of young
men and women who work hard for the
Opportunity Clubs for boys and girls
living in the great industrial areas. This
was their first function of the year, and
they had gone to endless trouble to decor-
ate Ciro’s.
Young president of the committee
Jane Hennessey chose a white organdie
gown, the bodice of which bared one
shoulder, while the other shoulder was
covered in large white organdie roses.
Kaye Morrison, organiser for Oppor-
tunity Clubs, wore white tulle with a cas-
cade of golden roses falling from the
waist at one side. Margaret Atkinson’s
gown was of deep-ivory satin. Jan Reed
was in white, with a lovely sari-stole
added.
With Colin Bailey and John Clemenger
as co-judges, this Letter chose Nan Flower
as the wearer of the most beautiful white
gown. Made by herself, it was perman-
ently-pleated nylon, with a slim, elegant
skirt and a draped bodice cut to reveal
one shoulder. With it was worn - a gold
belt. Other beautifully dressed dancers
were Mrs. Cyril Greaves (wearing a gown
of white pleated-chiffon with a halter-
neckline), Jane Chirnside (whose full-
skirted frock was of delphinium-blue silk-
taffeta with a huge bustle-bow in deeper-
blue tonings at the back of the dropped
waist) and Sally Vine (who added to her
palest-pink tulle gown a deep-rose taffeta
stole).
When Helen, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
H. V. Francis, of Camberwell, was mar-
ried in Xavier College Chapel to Dr.
John Booth, elder son of Mrs. Eric Booth,
of Kooyong, and the late Mr. Booth, she
wore a short frock of cream pure-silk
with a tulle veil held with cream French-
roses, and carried a sheaf of long-stemmed
cream roses. Her sister Anne was brides-
maid. Reception was at Chevron. The
newlyweds will go to Rockhampton (Q.),
where Dr. Booth has a position at the
hospital.
Beverley Dunn, 22, who plays Joan of
Arc in “The Lark,” now at the Arrow
Theatre, has often appeared at the Little
Theatre and Union Theatre. She played
Rose Pemberton in the Australian
premiere of “The Living Room” and was
the Katrin of “I Remember Mama” —
for her acting in the latter production she
won the Eric Kuttner award for the best
actress of 1955. “The Lark ” is the second
Anouilh play in which Beverley has
starred; she played the name-part in his
“Antigone.” Both plays were produced
by Irene Mitchell. Beverley is also a
freelance radio-actress; next month she
will play Amanda in the A.B.C.’s pro-
duction of “Private Lives” Photo by
Athol Shmith.
Mrs. Arnold Isaacson and Joyce True-
love were co-organisers in the “Treasures
of Many Lands” loan-exhibition, which
the Governor opened in the Lower Town
Hall, and the proceeds of which will be
divided between Y.W.C.A. and the Vic-
torian Jewish Board of Deputies. Lady
Brooks, who accompanied his Excellency,
wore a formal gown of cream brocaded-
satin embroidered with gold-thread;
tucks across the bodice extended into wide
shoulder-straps. Major-General Kingsley
Norris (chairman of the committee
arranging the exhibition), Mrs. T. C. Ren-
toul (president of Y.W.C.A.) and Trevor
Rapke (deputy-president of the Jewish
Board of Deputies) welcomed the vice-
regal party.
Among those at the official opening
\Vere Vice-Admiral R. R. Dowling and
Mrs. Dowling, Lady Gullett, Mrs. Robert
Southey, Marion McPherson, Lieut.-Gen.
Sir Horace Robertson (who was con-
venor of the Chinese exhibits and lent
many of his own treasures), Mrs. Flora
Chen, Mrs. Esther K. Davidson, Mrs.
Erwin Fauser, Mrs. Lionel Newton, Mrs.
John Carrodus, Mrs. J. B. Cordner,
Mrs. Ivan Holyman, Mary Elizabeth
Fitzgerald and Ailsa Holyman.
SYDNY
First of the glamorous occasions of
the week was the gala dinner at David
Jones’ big restaurant, where fashions from
34 of France’s top designers were intro-
duced—fashions identical with those now
being shown at Paris openings. The
whole ceiling of the restaurant was
covered with clouds of airy white tulle,
caught into festoons at intervals by a
glittering black starburst motif —a
sophisticated and beautiful decor de-
signed by M. Pierre Pothiers.
Sir Charles and Lady Lloyd Jones
received the 400 guests, who met early
for cocktails before the four-course
dinner and watched (as an interlude to
the consumption of supreme de volaille,
bombe glace au pralin, pet'its gateaux and
other happy inventions of the French
culinary genius) nine French mannequins
parading the clothes. A pleasant way,
of seeing a fashion-show, nest-ce-pas ?
The speech which got the happiest
handclap was that of M. Daniel Gorin.
After brief introductions and thanks,-he
paused, drew breath, and then said, “This
speech is now over.”
Janet Cartledge, of Launceston, Tas-
mania, has announced her engagement
to Dr. John Dunlop, son off Dr. and Mrs.
A. T. Dunlop, of Woollahra. Janet is on
the nursing-staff of Royal North Shore
Hospital. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
The week produced a reception that
will be long remembered as Sydney’s most
elegant gathering for years. It was the
party given by the Ambassador for
France and by the National Art Gallery
Society as a preview of the French
tapestries which are now decorating,
and transforming, the Gallery’s walls.
The loftiness of the rooms and the soft
lighting formed a just-about perfect
setting for the luxurious dresses worn by
the women.
“Nowhere in the world,” said one
much-travelled woman, “would one see
more lovely clothes, except, perhaps, at
some great-occasion ball in Paris.” In
this respect the highlight of the evening
came when the nine French mannequins
at present in Sydney swept-in wearing
France’s latest and most sumptuous
evening-dresses, and looking, as one guest
commented, as beautiful as swans.
The supper-tables were decorated m a
most unusual and striking way, the dark-
red tablecloths being set with arrange-
ments of huge yellow melons, gourds and
squashes, while great fat candles, set in
driftwood, lighted the length of the table.
Greeting the guests were French Am-
bassador M. Renaud Sivan, president of
the Gallery Society Mr. Justice Street, and
Mr. W. H. Ifould. The ladies respons-
ible for the organisation of the party
were Mrs. Douglas Dundas, Mrs.
Anthony Hordern, Mrs. Gregory Blax-
land and Mrs. Warwick Fairfax.
A week of news about the French
should not go past without a recipe,
surely, so here is one learned from
Madame Evelyne Playoust at the
cookery-demonstrations held at David
Jones’. It is a sweet called “clafoutis,”
and is recommended because Madame
Playoust is definite that “You cannot
have a failure with it; it never goes
wrong.” You just sift 6oz. flour, 6oz.
sugar and a pinch of salt, add two whole
eggs, and put in a mixmaster for lOmin.,
or beat by hand. Then pour half the
mixture in a buttered tart-tin and cover
with sliced fresh fruit (it must be fresh)
—plums, apples, apricots, etc. Now cover
again with the rest of the mixture, put
in a medium oven and cook for half-an-
hour.
☆ ☆ ☆
A highly representative gathering of
Sydney’s distinguished citizens attended
the opening function of what might be
called French Week —the luncheon at the
Australia given by the Renault Company,
at which M. Lefevre-Vacquerie was
host.
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hordern were there,
M. Auffray and Madame Auffray, Sir
John and Lady Hall-Best, Rear-Admiral
Buchanan and Mrs. Buchanan, Dr. and
Mrs. Frank Louat, Police-Commissioner
C. J. Delaney and Mrs. Delaney (chatting
to Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Cusick), Mr. and
Mrs. W. Yeo, Mr. and Mrs. L. A. Robb,
Major and Mrs. J. F. Martip.
There were no speeches—a happy cir-
cumstance, as many of the guests went
on to the official opening of the French
Exhibition at the Showground, where,
with minds unsurfeited by previous
addresses, they heard Prime Minister
Menzies proclaim the “Open Sesame”
and M. Andre Morice (leader of the
French delegation to the exhibition)
explain in French the aims and objects
of the display, and then an interpreter
explain these once more, in English.
# V- *
Nearly 800 dancers went along to the
Annual Ball of the Loreto (Kirribilli)
Ex-Students’ Union at the Trocadero.
Mrs: F. R. Hegerty, whose daughter Ann
made her debut, presented the 22 debs,
to Air-Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters and
to Mrs. Walters, who looked very striking
in a dress of white faille. President of
the union Mrs. L. W. Ritchie wore grey
broderie anglaise over pink satin, and
entertained, in the official party, represen-
tatives of various schools, Mr. Justice
de Baun and Mrs. de Baun, Mr. Justice
Clancy and Mrs. Clancy, Dr. Tess Car-
michael* Dr. and Mrs. Tom Bateman.
The foyer and bandstand were decorated
with the Loreto crest and school-colors.
Proceeds of the ball will go towards the
school bursary and building-fund.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Morshead was guest-of-honor at
an At Home and musicale given by the
Ladies Auxiliary of the Royal Empire
Society, at which Lady Berryman was
hostess, assisted by members of the
auxiliary, including Mrs. A. L. Walters,
Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, Miss Margaret
Gillespie and Mrs. Roy McCaughey.
Later in the week the Royal Empire
Society gave a farewell-reception in honor
of General K. M. Cariappa, High
Commissioner for India, who is returning
home after a two-year term of office in
Australia. The General (who had been
welcomed by the society’s president, Dr.
Garnet Halloran) spoke of the great value
in the world today of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations, and said that we
must do everything in our power to
maintain it.
* ☆ ☆
The Show this year seems to be domi-
nated by the French Exhibition, which
has transformed the old Handcrafts Pavi-
lion beyond recognition. So great has
been its appeal that queues have to be
formed and only a certain number let in
at a time. Women will find me main
pavilion of the'greatest interest. Here
the table-settings are imaginative and
new, though some of the features (e.g.,
knives like the furry hoofs of deer) might
not appeal to the suburban housewife.
The crystal is particularly striking, the
Daum ornaments —such as “The Flame ’
and “The Sail”—proving how contem-
porary-design can appeal in a direct way.
It is a tribute to our 'retailers that so many
of the textiles and gloves, and the
women’s-wear generally, are already
familiar to us from our tours of Sydney’s
stores, and it is not uncommon to hear
some woman at the exhibition exclaiming
something like, “Why, there’s my dress!
Well, wha( do you know? —I’m in the
French Exhibition! ”
☆ ☆ ☆
Effective lighting and skilful color-
groupings were outstanding features of
Heather Gell’s presentation of “An Angel
Came,” a play for Easter put on at the
Theatre Royal for six matinees in aid of
charity. The large cast, excluding the
male actors, were all young students of
Dalcroze Eurhythmies, and rhythmic
movement was used to give atmosphere to
.each of the scenes of the pageant touching
on the life of Christ. Although there was
some raggedness in production, the atmos-
phere of the play was both reverent
and joyous, and those scenes which in-
volved the very tiny tots were particularly
appealing.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
Circular Charts for all type*
•I Recording Instruments
•or bti f «I*m of
•r Equipmani
METER CHARTS • SpacUKy
JACK§@prsf O'SIiLU VAN%L&
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Positions Wanted
TWO sisters, German, good
appearance, would like position
as mannequins, modelling or
photo, modelling. Reply:
HAUSLER,
Railway Hostel,
Wentworth Street, Lakemba.
Missing Friends
EDWARD MILLS JONES, DECEASED.
Would WALTER JONES and PAUL
JONES, sons of the abovenamed, or any-
one knowing their present whereabouts,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
SHERRIFF (nee RUSHWORTH), MARY
ANN, at one time of Ballarat district of
Victoria. —Will the abovenamed or her
issue or anyone knowing their whereabouts
please contact the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
A.N.A. House, 44 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, W.A., estate of Fanny Rush worth,
deceased.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO CHARLES OLIVER EASTHAM late
of Norfolk Road Epping.—TAKE NOTICE
that EVA ELIZABETH EASTHAM has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1927 of
1955 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Bth June T 956 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
LORTON DUKE & CO., Solicitors, of
77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
'By Appointment
, to K M. King
fra derlk IX
By Appointment
to the late
King George VI.
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H.M. the
Ouesn of the
Netherlands'
j,
!!■.» , S&:
CHERRY 6j
: ; -
i!k> *t niitHS
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Denmark*
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoyment
QHf*'
QUO-
Vf,
& HORN DALE PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Lark”
The St. Joan of Anouilh’s “The
Lark,” staged by. the Melbourne
Little Theatre at the Arrow
Theatre, has much in common
with Shaw’s “St. Joan.” In fact,
the Frenchman’s viewpoint is
practically identical with the
Irishman’s, though he illustrates
it with more art than did Shaw,
who said himself that art had
been denied him.
Anouilh’s Joan is a natural.
Like Prometheus, she is un-
conditioned. When Prometheus
went up to Heaven, and looked
around for something that would
be of the greatest benefit to man-
kind, he saw fire, and took that
down. A more conditioned
individual would have taken
down a bottle of Melbourne-
bitter.
Joan made up her own mind,
and if she gave credit for her
remarkable political and military
decisions which so astounded
the copybook statesmen and
generals with whom she was
surrounded—-to her Voices, that
is what every saint does. The
saint is so surprised at his
superiority over other people that
he has to attribute it to super-
natural inspiration. Even Soc-
rates did that, and Joan was only
a girl of 16 when she skittled the
cream of the English and Bur-
gundian generals, swept the
stupid Dauphin off his feet and
set him on a throne, and started
Frenchmen thinking of them-
selves as Frenchmen.
The thing she didn’t realise —
and never understood right
through her trial was that
in setting herself up as God’s
mouthpiece she flouted the
Church, the officially-appointed
mouthpiece, and no churchman,
whatever side he was on, could
forgive her without being false
to his own creed.
Anouilh states all this very
beautifully, and never once devi-
ates from the known facts of the
Maid’s history in the process;
and as the facts are stated in. an
emotional context of the highest
order they are enormously
effective. When the Inquisitor
asks Joan if St. Michael appeared-
to her naked she says, “Do you
think our Lord has nothing to
dress him in?” This is actually
what she did say, as recorded in
the official minutes of the trial,
but in the play-you feel the con-
sternation of the judges as well
as know it.
Anouilh’s method of narra-
tion is to present the Maid sit-
ting waiting for her trial. The
inquisitor, judges, learned clerks
and great ecclesiastics file in, and
the interrogation starts. When
the questions begin to touch on
a vital psychological or emotional
situation there is, so to speak, a
flashback. Joan’s mother and
father enter, of perchance a
lover, the wretched Dauphin, or
one of the generals who doted on
and died for her rushes in, and
the actual scene is re-enacted.
This is all cleverly interwoven
with the main thread of the story,
so that the argument, which
sometimes goes deeper than Shaw
does, is brilliantly illumined.
Beverley Dunn was Joan, and
a better one could not be
imagined. Although unmistak-
ably a peasant, she was one God-
possessed, and nothing like the
tomboy some actresses have
made her. Neil Fitzpatrick was
excellent as Beauchamp, Earl of
Warwick, the King-possessed
man, and Kevin Colebrook, as
the Promoter, Philp A’vard, as
the Inquisitor, and Carl Bleazby,
as Couchon, were magnificent as
the Church-possessed men.
Charles, the Dauphin, who is
possessed with nothing but a
desire to have a quiet life, was
intelligently done by Albert
McPherson. Irene Mitchell was
responsible for the production.
M. G. S.
Joseph Post
Taking-over at short notice a
concert not of his own choosing,
Sydney Symphony Orchestra’s
associate-conductor further con-
firmed the opinion that he is as
sound a resident-conductor as
Australia possesses.
Nowhere in the exacting pro-
gramme at the Town Hall did
Mr. Post adduce better proof of
this than in the first performance
of “The Groves of Venus,” by
contemporary French composer
Jean Fran9aix. This beautifully-
scored set of seven waltzes is
exuberant, witty, polished and
full of quick instrument-group-
ing changes; in the purely
“comic” writing it is strongly
suggestive of Offenbach, though
lacking the melodic strength of
the earlier Frenchman.
The conductor, himself quick,
exuberant, was in full affinity
with the bubbling, volatile music.
The orchestra responded magni-
ficently with one of the most
successful first-performances of
contemporary music heard here
for some years.
There was music of less worth
in another first-performance of a
work also by a contemporary
Frenchman, Jacques Ibert. This
was the “Festival” Overture, the
only acceptable portion of which
was the reflective middle-section,
a welcome relief from the blaring
doubl e-fortissimos of the head
and tail, which said very little.
The third work of the
all-French second - half was
Debussy’s “Iberia,” supposed to
be strongly evocative of the
Spanish scene—upon which the
composer never gazed except for
a one-hour excursion over the
border. Actually, the music is
lacking almost completely in the
pulsing rhythms which mark the
true national music of Spain as
delineated by Granados, Albeniz
and De Falla. Less impression-
istic than the usual Debussy, its
delicate tone-coloring and wood-
wind-harmonies were made the
most of and its graphic sections
given their full worth.
The big work of the night was
Brahms’s Second Piano Con-
certo, with Hephzibah Menuhin
as soloist. It is of true symphonic
breadth—with four movements
instead of the usual three—and
both orchestra and solo i s t
achieved a lovely tranquillity in
the first movement, echoing
the effect upon the composer of
the Italian countryside in
summer. The scherzo, which
dwarfs anything in that line that
even Beethoven could achieve,
comprises some of Brahms’s
finest pages, and through them
Miss Menuhin and the orchestra
romped with the greatest gusto,
continuing in this spirit through
the lighthearted gipsy melodies
of the rondo. The intervening
andante —as good an example as
there is of romantic writing—
brought trembling passion from
Hans George’s ’cello and excep-
tionally fine phrasing from the
keyboard.
The conductor, following a
never-failing practice which
others might copy, kept his forces
throttled well back to allow the
solo voice to be heard to the
best advantage.
♦*+
Brisbane Mozart Festival
Mozart came to Brisbane in
his festival-year in a set of
orchestral programmes not radi-
cally different from those pre-
sented in other States, but con-
taining a satisfying number qf
pieces that usually seem to lie
outside the knowledge or taste
of programme-builders.
.Brisbane audiences went to
their festival having heard broad-
casts of the earlier southern
festivals. It is to be hoped the
A.B.C. will not make Mozart the
victim of his own 200th anniver-
sary by giving him the unmerciful
drubbing that poor Bach suffered
two years ago. The present
festival-concerts and the four
great operas will do nicely. A
protracted festival would do
Mozart more disservice than any-
thing else.
Rudolf Pekarek’s conducting
at the opening Brisbane concerts
showed that he does not belong
to the school which treats
Mozart’s music as though it is
as mincing and foppish as some
of the Court society of Mozart’s
own day. In the first concert the
“Haffner” Symphony lacked a
little in impetus in the first move-
ment, but was otherwise full of
vigor, mixed with the proud
grace of Mozart at his best.
Soloist Ronald Woodcock had
some trouble with his tone in
the Violin Concerto in G, but
there was no doubt of the
warmth of his playing. The night
seemed expressly arranged for
the discomfort of string-players,
and did its tropical worst to
wreck the performance. At a
later concert Irene Kohler had
the better luck of striking a cool
evening. The D Minor Piano
Concerto was a model of elo-
quence and dignity, and it was
given an excellent orchestral
accompaniment.
The chief novelty of these pro-
grammes was the Wind Serenade
in E Flat. Perhaps the orchestra’s
wind-section has been shy in the
past, or no one asked them to
play on their own. Anyway, the
change from full orchestra to
a small group of oboes, clarinets,
bassoons and horns was most
refreshing, and the only com-
plaint possible was that light
music composed for outdoor
listening was being heard in an
atmosphere so solemn that it was
ridiculous.
The Overture to Don Giovanni
was too cautious to be dramatic,
and the wonderful “Prague”
Symphony was notable for a fine
performance of the slow move-
ment, although the lack of
sparkle in the outer movements
showed just how strenuous it is
for an orchestra to play Mozart
all night.
D. J. M.
“The Dark Is Light Enough”
Christoper Fry is responsible
for two of the finest English
•verse-comedies since the Eliza-
bethans, as well as for some
interesting adaptations from
current French theatre, but the
very qualities that sparkle in the
setting of his comedies are the
ones that frustrate his most
recent attempt to deliver a more
serious play.
Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre presented “The Dark Is
Light Enough” to open its reper-
tory season. In this “winter”
piece, time and time again Fry
disperses the main stream of
his drama to drive it into verbal
cascades and backwaters. In his
fondness for a few specialised
poetic devices of imagery and
paradox he attributes them to all
characters, until the play wearies
itself into one clever, but over-
long, speech, regardless of which
character happens to be speak-
ing it. v
Only the Countess emerges
from this maelstrom of words,
and she does so because Fry has
taken the trouble to make her
character suit his verbal manner-
isms. Present commentator felt
much the same disappointment
about the West End production,
and indeed much preferred what
Marjorie Mant was trying to do
with the Countess’s role to the
stately, but static, playing of
Dame Edith Evans, who simply
treated the whole thing as a
gorgeous poem. Miss Mant’s
playing had a butterfly-minded
quality about it, lighting with
sheer joy on image and situation
alike.
Lew Luton’s handling of the
role of Gettner, enigmatic and
brutal, was also nearer the mark
than his gentle English counter-
part, James Donald, and in
Luton’s sense of freedom and
movement on stage it is possible
to see why he is the second
Queenslander to join the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust in Sydney.
His liberties with the verse text,
however, are another story.
VAL VALLIS.
Artbursts
Lindsay and Gruner
The release of two Norman
Lindsay etchings, never pre-
viously exhibited, is one of the
most interesting features of a
mixed exhibition at Jane Glad’s
gallery, Hunter’s Hill, Sydney.
One is called “Precipice” and the
other “Wayfarers,” and both,
showing his mastery of that
medium, are collectors’ pieces.
There are also recent Norman
Lindsay oils and watercolors, a
fine early Gruner (1917) entitled
“Ploughing,” an unusual Streeton
portrait of a girl, dated 1895, and
a large Fullwood watercolor.
* ❖ *
At the Peter Bray Gallery,
Melbourne, John Brack exploits
a mild vein of satire in a rather
quaint way. He depicts the man-
in-the street in all his grim uni-
formity and drabness. “Collins-
street, 5 p.m.,” his largest picture,
shows the army of employed
marching to suburbia with a look
on all their faces as if they were
going to the scaffold.
Talkies
“La Passion de Jeanne D’Arc”
(State Film Centre, Melbourne):
This film from the French State-
archives caused a sensation when
it was first released in 1928,
during the era of the “silents.”
It tells the story of Joan’s trial
almost entirely in close-ups. You
see the faces of the Grand
Inquisitor, the judges, the
enormous panel of lawyers,
priestly clerks, English and Bur-
gundian accusers, executioners
and soldiers and the common
people. You see them bellowing
at Joan and whispering to one
another, and you see Joan’s face
and see her lips move, and it
is remarkable how much of the
argument, as well as the feeling,
is conveyed merely by the ex-
pressions.
It all builds-up to the
tremendous climax of the Maid’s
burning, which is done with an
almost intolerable realism and
makes one wonder whether
making the films talk wasn’t a
superfluous invention.


the way of a
warrior
by H.llive morton
IT was a pity the Old Testa-
ment Gang had to go away.
They were the best-
tempered cane-gang Gilly
and I had ever seen. And were
learned, too, on important
matters, like the right bait for
jewfish, the selecting of shanghai-
forks, and the manufacture of
looped-wire wallaby-traps.
One of the Old Testament
Gang’s , wallaby-traps caught a
three-legged tomcat, Gilly’s
black-and-white bitch and an
A.W.U. organiser before Gilly’s
father had it shifted.
Nick brought the gang to the
farm a week before the crushing.
“Nick,” Gilly’s father had said,
with memories of last season’s
Italian cane-gang still in his
mind, “go into town and see if
you can find some canecutters
who can speak English.”
“Pawpaw reckoned there’s a
mob of Scotch migrants staying
at the Imperial, after a cane-cut,”
Nick offered.
“Damn it all,” Gilly’s father
protested, “I just told you I
wanted a gang who could speak
English! ”
So the Old Testament Gang
came through the language-
barrier to us. Gilly and I saw
them on the back of Nick’s
truck, as he crossed the bridge
over the cutting.
“Hell,” Gilly yelped,
“Nick’s gone and grabbed a gang
of darkies!”
“Maybe they got boomerangs
and spears and that,” I worried,
hopefully.
“No,” said Gilly. “They’d be
mission-blokes.”
He flicked the bloodwood pole
of his mudcod-line, and contem-
plated the civilised upbringing of
mission-aborigines with dis-
favor.
“M i s s i o n blokes,” he
explained, his voice heavy with
disgust, “don’t use spears or
nulla-nullas or anything.”
He puffed at his corncob-pipe,
blew a plume of banana-leaf
smoke skywards, flung out his
arm and added, “Mission blokes
are tame.”
The cork of the mudcod-line
winked on the water, bobbed,
turned edgewise, and began the
traditional bankside journey.
Gilly thrust the rod forward,
gritted his teeth, and flung the
rod over his shoulder. I waited
for the plop of cod on ground.
“Got orf,” Gilly bellowed.
“Did you feel him?” I
demanded.
“Damn’ near broke my
shoulder. Cripes he was big!
Musta weighed nearly half-a-
pound.”
He flung the rod down in
disgust. “Aw, hell,” he said,
“let’s go up the house and have
a look at the gang.”
\Tt7E arrived just as Gilly’s
father, returning from
work, drove the 10/20 tractor
into the shed. We stood admiring
the cloud of steam rising from
the boiling radiator. We knew
the boiling was not serious. The
radiators of good 10/20's always
boiled.
“What,” demanded Gilly’s
father, as he saw the mission-
boys standing near the shed, “in
the blazes is that?”
Nick, filled with the pride of
a selector, took personal offence.
“lt’s the cane-gang,” he said
heatedly.
Gilly’s father strode to the
shed. “What’s your name?” he
asked the nearest mission-boy.
“I’m Esau,” murmured the
boy ; “and this is Daniel, and
other bloke’s David.”
“Hmm,” grunted Gilly’s father.
“Cane-gang, hey? Sounds like
an Old Testament Gang to
me . . . Esau who?” he asked.
“Esau Murgatroyd, and other
boy’s Daniel Murgatroyd, and
other fellow’s David Murga-
troyd.”
Gilly’s father eyed them in-
quiringly. Esau’s skin would
have shown the white mark of a
piece of charcoal applied,
Daniel’s held the color of
adulterated honey, and David’s
merged to a near-white.
“You blokes cousins?” Gilly’s
father inquired.
“No,” Esau explained, “we
been brothers.”
Gilly’s father glanced across
the ranks again. Esau interpreted
the glance, grinned and
explained. “We all been have the
same mother,” he said.
Gilly’s father glanced uneasily
at us. “What the devil are you
kids hanging around for?” he
demanded.
Gilly’s eyebrows rose. “Aw,”
he began; then out of an
inspired moment added, “we
just wanted to be here, when you
showed them the maggot-room.”
The Old Testament Gang sur-
veyed him with the interested
eyes of the eternally curious.
“Well,” Gilly’s father said,
“come along, and I’ll get you
fixed-up in the barracks.”
The Old Testament Gang
shouldered ports and packs.
Gilly’s father led the safari
across the yard.
“When we get to the bar-
racks,” Gilly promised Esau,
“I’ll show you the maggot-
room.”
It was an ill - considered
promise. His father had the
traditions of host to consider.
He flung open the door of one
room.
“This,” he announced, “is the
green room —you can see where
Nick kicked over the tin of
paint—and this,” he flung over
his shoulder as he walked along
the veranda, “is the maggot-
room.”
He pointed to a dark stain
near one window. “Macaroni,”
he announced.
The Old Testament Gang
gazed without comprehension.
“Gang last year used to cook
more than they sould eat. Throw
the rest of it out the window.
Drape her down the wall.
Bloody great strings of it. Time
we woke up to her it was a main
highway for the crawlies.”
He pantomimed around the
room. The Old Testament Gang
stood upright for over two
minutes, while Gilly’s father
swayed.round the room in inter-
pretation of the highway traffic.
Esau rolled right out of the
room and down the veranda
steps, shrieking with laughter as
he went.
ALTOGETHER it was the
most economical narration
Gilly’s father had ever accom-
plished. The Old Testament
Gang drew mirth from the recol-
lectibn of it, four times a day
for five weeks ; and even late in
the season, when the north wind
fanned heat through the cane-
rows, the memory of it still had
potency, sufficient to lift their
flagging spirits.
Gilly’s father grew optimistic.
“You know,” he announced
one day in the shed, “we’re going
to cut-out early this year. And
no trouble, either. We’ll cut-out
well before Christmas, and we’ll
go fishing up the reef, that’s what
we’ll do.”
He sighed.
“Forty yearsj” he remembered,
“I’ve wanted to go up the reef
fishing for Christmas. Never
ever seem to have made it, but
by the living Harry a man looks
like doing it this year.”
“If we cut-out,” Nick added
darkly. Nick’s supreme optimism
for mechanical things did not
embrace canecutters.
Gilly’s father snorted. “It’s in
the bag,” he said. “The cane’s as
good as cut.”
He leaned against the stable
wall, gazed heavenwards, and
savored the richness of projected
thought.
“I can see us now,” he mur-
mured, “sitting there in the
flattie, just heaving in tricky
snapper till our arms ache.
Chug out to the reef of a morn-
ing in the outboard, and fill the
flattie with fish.”
Nick scratched his chin.
“Never saw it quite like that,”
he put in with unnecessary
honesty. “Only time I ever saw
a boatful of fish was when we
doctored-up a Nip landmine
with a couple of grenades at
Morotai and bunged that in the
drink.”
Gilly’s father shook a warning
forefinger. “Now, don’t get any
ideas,” he said uneasily.
“Don’t worry,” growled Nick.
“We won’t even get there —
you’ll see.”
“ ’Course we will,” Gilly's
father prophesied; “we’ll be
there for Christmas and New
Year. Could stay a bit longer if
you got that cordwood-contract
of yours set back a few days.”
He looked hopefully at Nick.
Nick’s lean face was barren of
promise.
Gilly and I, who had travelled
along the pathways of thought
excitedly inspecting the fish-filled
flattie of Gilly’s father, returned
to reality. Gilly, who knew the
insurance-value of a grown-up
promise, given before the pos-
sible committing of youthful
indiscretions, began a two-
pronged manoeuvre.
“Crikey,” he said loudly, “we’ll
be looking forward to going up
the reef.”
We stood parrot-headed, wait-
ing for the explosion of opposi-
tion. “Hmm,” Gilly’s father
agreed abstractedly. Gilly
glanced at me. I shook my head
in bewilderment.' Gilly cleared
his throat.
“I said,” he repeated, with the
suspicion of a winner of a too-
easy conquest, “we’ll be looking
forward to going”-
“All right, all right,” his
father growled. “There’s no need
to yell; I heard you the first
time.”
Gilly shook his head, eyed his
father speculatively, and grinned.
“We’re going, too!” he said
unbelievingly.
He began the final stages of
the manoeuvre. “Maybe,” he
suggested heavily, “someone
will buy us a new nylon line each
to go fishing with up there if we
pass the exams at the end of the
year.”
“Maybe,” his father said
testily, “someone will give you a
good kick in the backside if you
don’t.”
“Don’t worry,” Nick put in
hopelessly. “Something will
happen to the gang, and beggar
the whole business up.”
'T'HE python started it. Though
A even Nick, who had percep-
tion in such matters, saw the
snake only as a threat to a fowl-
house, and not to a cane-gang.
Esau found it near the bridge,
and pinned its head with a forked
stick. It was the biggest snake
Gilly and I had ever seen. Even
Gilly’s father was almost im-
pressed. 1
“She’s a fair lump of snake,”
he decided. “Puts me in mind
of one I got on the Herbert in
’twenty-three. By Gawd,” he
recalled, as he looked back
through the enlarger of the years,
“that way a snake! Though this
one’s not small.”
He prodded it with his sand-
shoe. The snake threshed wildly.
“Hey, boss,” pleaded the pant-
ing Esau, “better go a bit easy-
like ! Might throw a coil around
you.”
“Oh,” Gilly’s father declared
nonchalantly, “don’t worry about
that, my boy. I was catching
these before you were born.”
He prodded the snake again.
“ Please , boss,” Esau moaned,
“don’t make him wriggle.”
“Tell you what,” Gilly’s father
declared, “you kids nick up to
the house and get the camera.
I’ll take a photo of this bloke
and send it to the ‘Sugar
Journal’! ”
“Better you don’t stir him up
too much, boss,” Esau advised.
We ran up the headland for
the camera. Nick brought us
back in the lorry on his way to
the siding with a loaded cane-
truck.
“Ha,” said Gilly’s father.
“Just the shot, Nick; you can
take the photo. I’ll stand here
and drape the snake round my
neck.”
“By crikey, boss,” Esau
shouted, “I think he’s a bit too
lively for that.”
“Hmm,” Gilly’s father snorted.
“Here; give me a lump of its
tail and I’ll show you how to
handle this.”
He began feeding snake over
his shoulder.
“Now,” he instructed Nick,
“when I grab it by the head and
hold that up in front of me you
take the photo. They’re liable to
send a man a few bob for a
photo like that.”
“More liable to send you to
Goodna,” Nick declared.
It was then that the snake
tightened its coils around Gilly’s
father’s neck.
We had never seen anyone
with such a red face before. His
hands clawed at the tightening
coils, his eyes bulged, and he
muttered hoarsely.
“I think,” Gilly said to Nick,
intent on focusing his camera,
“that the old man’s in a bit of
strife.”
Nick glanced up, sprang to his
father’s side, and grasped a
.handful of snake.
“Hit it with a caneknife,” he
ordered Esau.
“Aw, can’t do that,” Esau
pointed out. “Might spoil the
skin. Better stick the old bloke
and the snake in the creek;
that’ll make the ole carpet
ease-up.”
They frogmarched Gilly's
father to the water and thrust his
head and shoulders under.
Slowly the coils released. Esau
whipped the coils away, and
Nick helped his father to the
bank.
“Hit that flaming thing on the
head! ” Gilly’s father demanded.
“It must be half-taipan.”
Esau looked dolefully at his
capture. “We were going to kill
it after,” he recalled, “when we
got time to skin it proper. Boot-
maker might give us a couple of
quid for it. Might even get
thirty-bob if we’re lucky.”
“Why,” asked Nick thought-
fully, “don’t you take it into
town alive, to that bloke who
buys snakes for the zoo? You
get more for it, that way.”
It was a costly and unfortunate
remark, uttered in all innocence,
with no perception of its ultimate
effect. It set in motion a chain
of events which Gilly’s father
long recalled with a shudder.
HERE by the creekbank began
the Old Testament Gang’s
fall from grace.
Their eyes lit at Nick’s sug-
gestion. “By gee,” admitted


TM All-BRITISH
finhwuytmut
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
rz
Prices from
27/6 to 90/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
Esau, “you’ve got something
there! ”
They had trouble taking the
snake up to the barracks. There
was a moment of disagreement
as to who should carry the head,
in the snake-processipn up the
headland. At last Esau reluc-
tantly took the position fitting
to ganger, and led the way. Gilly
and I followed respectfully and
cautiously.
It was not a very patient
python. Twice it tried to bite
Esau, and once, when David’s
sweat-slippery hands loosened, it
almost threshed free.
There are few things suitable
for a snake-prison on a cane-
farm. Gilly and l found an
empty 44-gallon drum, a piece of
corrugated-iron as a lid, and a
tractor-crankcase for ballast. The
Old Testament Gang nodded in
approval.
The Old Testament Gang’s
timing and synchronisation was
a revelation when they dropped
the snake in the drum. It
remained imprisoned until they
returned from work.
It was really a very large
snake, and its head came uncom-
fortably close to the neck of the
fertiliser-bag when the Gang
scooped it from the drum. Esau
solved the problem.
“We’ll get a loose mattress-
cover off my bed,” he decided.
“It’ll fit into that easy! Make it
real good to carry it to town in.
Might bite a bloke otherwise.”
Somehow Gilly’s mother did
not see the mattress-cover lar-
ceny or the departure of the
gang. Gilly’s mother held her
loose mattress-coversi in high
regard.
There is a sadness in the
thought that so many wonderful
happenings are lost, their record
denied to a future generation,
not so much through the burial
of passing years as by the lack
of a chronicler.
It was not so with the fall into
sin and attempted repentance of
the Old Testament Gang. Their
exploits have been captured, and
held against the years, in a con-
stable’s copperplate, and the
verbatim-recording of a court-
typewriter.
There is a strong suspicion
that the great and inspired liar
O’Shaunnesy bought them the
four bottles of “Round the
World for 2s. Wine” which led
to their downfall; but this has
never been proved.
It is known that- O’Shaunnesy
met them at the siding, and
carried them to town on the back
of his vintage lorry. It was
unfortunate that an evangelist
should be preaching across the
road from the hotel where
O’Shaunnesy claims to have left
them.
With the drinking of the fourth
bottle of wine, in the crotons
behind a strategically-placed
public-convenience, came a
heavy sense of repentance.
It was at this moment that the
evangelist, incensed at public
indifference, shouted across the
street, “Rep£nt, for the hour of
damnation draws near!”
His words touched at the
growing anguish of the Old
Testament Gang. It was agreed
in evidence that it was Esau who
said, “You think maybe we’d
better go over?”
Daniel viewed the reformer
from behind a strong wall of
missionary-Anglicanism.
“It’s not the right church,” he
declared. According to the
police-prosecutor, David led the
gang across the street.
“Even the Serpent of Edert
could be saved,” claimed the
reformer.
A passing lady, who had
paused for a while, afterwards
claimed in court that she dis-
tinctly heard Esau say at this
stage, “Let’s show him the
carpet-snake, maybe, he’ll make
it sorry for nearly throttling the
boss,” and her statement has not
been denied.
Although the Protector of
Aborigines argued that the
snake had accidentally escaped
and disrupted the meeting, his
plea of “not guilty of disorderly
conduct” was disallowed.
ILLY’S father was very upset
when the gang was recalled
to the mission the following
day.
“For Gawd’s sake, Nick,” he
moaned, “slip into town and see
if you can pick up some more
men. We’ll never cut-out at this
rate.”
“It’s not going to be easy,”
Nick declared. “Especially if
they’ve got to speak English.”
It was not an occasion for
frivolity. “Damnation! ” roared
Gilly’s father. “Get anyone —I
don’t care if they speak bloody
Afghanistan.”
Actually the four men Nick
found spoke English, although
they disguised it in a guttural,
far-reaching Teutonic grinding
which sounded like a cement-
mixer driven too fast with worn
driving-gears. .
Though Otto the Storm-
trooper’s cane-gang had never
been in sugar before, they had
all of the inherited instincts and
behavior-patterns of experi-
enced canecutters. On arrival
they demanded £1 a ton, allowed
themselves to be bargained down
to 175., claimed they had three
other cane-cuts to go to if
necessary, complained consci-
entiously and continually, and
threatened to leave every 48-
hours.
In the barracks they changed
the stormproof lanterns over-
night from reliable illuminators
into unpredictable incendiary
bombs.
To make their assimilation
complete, they developed the
usual canecutter’s horror of
walking further than two yards
from the barracks door in
obedience to those nocturnal
calls common to man.
Gilly’s father observed all
these things with great satisfac-
tion. “They’re the makings of a
good gang,” he decided. “They’ll
cut us out before Christmas —
you see.”
But with Otto the Storm-
trooper as gang-cook, Gilly’s
father’s structure of hope had
an unreliable foundation of
curried-sausages.
Otto was addicted to them.
He expected that the rest of the
gang should share his single-
minded regard. Perhaps the
Prussian acceptance of authority
would* have allowed the gang to
continue to bow to his wishes
if he had not introduced a system
of proportional serving, based
on canecutting ability. There
is always danger with margins.
Otto, who cut most cane,
allowed himself four-and-a-half
sausages a meal; Karl was
granted two; Frederick one;
Frederick rebelled first. It was
not a very serious fight. Gilly and
I saw most of it from the stables.
Frederick flung his plate and
sausage at Otto’s head.
Otto managed to punch him
right through one bedroom-wall
without ruining more than one
sheet of fibrolite. Frederick
staggered to his feet, packed his
ports and set off down the head-
land.
Gilly’s father was not greatly
concerned. “Well, never mind,”
he said. “If the other three cut
a bit faster, we’ll still finish by
Christmas.”
Karl left the next morning
because of the draught coming
through the hole smashed in the
bedroom wall.
“Well,” Nick said, with the
voice of a proved prophet, “that’s
ripped your fishing-trip.”
Gilly and I looked back on
weeks of study inspired by fish-
ing-line promises.
“And,” said Gilly tragically,
“we wasted an exam., too.”
“Now, hang on,” appealed
Gilly’s father, with uplifted hand.
“We haven’t lost yet. Maybe
we’d still get away, if someone
could hop in and help the other
two.”
He glanced significantly at
Nick. Nick stood unreceptive of
the unspoken suggestion.
“I don’t suppose,” said Gilly’s
father, “that there’s anyone
around this farm who could
spare an hour or so a day to
cut”
“You’re getting a bit old for
that, don’t you reckon?” Nick
put in wickedly.
“Oh, well,” Gilly’s father said,
“they’ll finish a few days before
Christmas even with two. That
will still give us a day or two
up the beach before New Year.”
He walked sadly away.
“I don’t suppose a man really
wasted all of that exam.,” Gilly
conceded reluctantly.
J7XAUS came to the house at
midday.
“Must go,” he declared
objectively. “Is no goot. Just
can’t cut cane on half blutty
sausage.”
Gilly’s father leapt to his feet.
“Oh, hang on,” he pleaded.
“Maybe the missus will cook
for you?”
“Is no goot,” Klaus insisted.
“Just can’t cut cane with that
blutty Otto.”
“Well,” Gilly’s father sug-
gested, “you can cut in separate
paddocks.”
“Is no goot,” said Klaus with
finality. “Just can’t cut blutty
cane.”
“Oh dear,” Gilly’s mother
discovered. “Does that mean
you won’t be able to go fishing,
after all?”
“Fishing,” moaned Gilly’s
father. “A man won’t even get
his cane cut, let alone go
fishing.”
A cane-inspector and Pawpaw
lifted his cloud of despair.
“Hey,” shouted the cane-
inspector from his utility, “I
can arrange for a gang to come
in and cut one of your paddocks,
as long as you can shift the
other one.”
“Oh,” roared Gilly’s father
jovially, “Otto the Stormtrooper
can finish one of them.”
“He better be able to,” warned
the cane-inspector. “There’s no
other men around.”
Gilly’s father waved him away,
“We’ll be right,” he shouted.
It was then that Pawpaw drove
up in his cane-hauling lorry.
“If you blokes want to go
fishing,” he said as introduction,
“I’ll haul Otto’s cane, so you can
be away for Christmas.”
“Mum,” shouted Gilly’s father,
“is there a cold bottle of beer in
the fridge ?«”
“We didn’t waste that exam.,
after all!” yelped Gilly.
By mutual consent Gilly and
I became two disciples dedicated
to the comfort of Otto the Storm-
trooper. He was our passport
to a fishing Paradise.
Each morning we ran to the
barracks, made "his bed, filled his
waterbag and escorted him to
the cane-paddock.
Gilly’s father watched with
benevolence. “I didn’t think you
had it in you,” he declared.
“You’re doing a good job—but
for Gawd’s sake be careful with
Pawpaw. Try not to stir him up.
We’ll need him, too.”
Our early misfortunes with
Pawpaw came out of the past to
mock us at his words.
“We’ll run away every time
we see him coming,” Gilly
promised. “Any time we’ve gone
near him before something
awful’s happened.”
Even Nick grew enthusiastic a
few days before Christmas.
Between tractor - driving and
cane-hauling he tinkered in the
shed with the magneto of his
outboard-motor, swore delici-
ously at driving-gears, and flung
ring-spanners out into the yard.
He was disappointed when
Gilly’s father announced, “We
won’t get there for Christmas
Day; there’s too much cane
from the other gang to haul.
You and Pawpaw will be going
till ten-o’clock the night before.
We’ll pack the gear on in the
afternoon and get away early
Boxing Day morning. Pawpaw
can handle it after that.”
ALL along the creek-bank,
snowlike on the open slopes,
white splashed in green and
hidden places, the Christmas-
lilies burst into bloom. White
lilies growing on the creek bank,
plucked and dropped in youth-
ful extravagance along the head-
land. White lilies and red poin-
ciana on the farmhouse veranda.
“Crikey,” said Gilly, “it looks
nice. It’s nearly worth missing
a day’s fishing to see.”
Out in the yard Nick, axe-
armed, • chased an escaping
rooster. Gilly’s father whistled
at duck-plucking. Cautiously
Gilly and I crept to the kitchen.
It was an optimistic attempt.
“I won’t tell you again,”
Gilly’s mother complained, “to
leave those walnuts alone.”
We fled down the steps.
“Have you pair of young
beggars put hooks on your new
nylons yet?” Gilly’s father
demanded. We skipped to the
shed . . .
It was a duck to discuss and
remember. It sat brown-crisped
and wrinkled on the table, yield-
ing to Nick’s slicing knife.
“Can I light the pudding
after?” Gilly pleaded.
“You can both light it,” his
father promised.
“Why,” asked Gilly’s mother,
“don’t you ask Otto the Storm-
trooper to come over for dinner?
There’s too much for us.”
“Aw,” Nick put in, “I don't
feel like having dinner with that
cow.”
Qilly’s father put down his
glass. “Now look here, Nick,”
he said, “I know how you must
feel about Germans, but the
war’s over, my boy. And I don’t
suppose he really was a storm-
trooper.”
“Heck,” said Nick, “I’m not
worried whether he was a storm-
trooper or not, but”
“But, Nicky,” his mother
encouraged, “it is Christmas.”
“That’s right,” Gilly’s father
agreed ; “and it might put him in
a good humor. You’ve got to
remember we’re depending on
him to cut the rest of the cane
while we’re up the beach.”
Nick spread his hands. “Get
him if you want to,” he con-
ceded.
“That’s the spirit,” shouted
Gilly’s father. “And, Nick, be
nice to him remember the rest
of that cane.”
Nick tried. It was unfortunate
that the conversation drifted to
war. Otto noticed the war-
history volume on the shelf.
“Ach,” he said, “you read the
war-histories, too?”
“Eve looked through it,” Nick
conceded.
“Nick was over in the Middle
East,” Gilly’s father said, con-
versationally, warningly, hope-
fully.
“Is dot so ?” Otto growled
eagerly. “Ach, dat was a fight!
And what generals! Dot Mont-
gomery. Dere was a man! ”
“Old Rommel put up a decent
sort of a go, too,” Nick put in.
“Hmmn,” Otto agreed. “But
Montgomery was best.”
Nick looked up from his duck.
“Oh,” he said, “I wouldn’t go so
far as to say that. I always
thought they were pretty well
matched, myself.”
“Nonsense,” insisted Otto.
“Rommel was better on quick
decisions close to the fighting,
but that Montgomery —ah, what
strategist! Far better than
Rommel.”
“Aw, be blowed!” Nick said
heatedly. “Rommel was no
mug.”
Otto threw down his fork. “I
tell you Montgomery was best! ”
he bellowed. “I read it all ver’
careful.”
“What?” roared Nick. “You
read it? Do you mean to tell me
you weren’t there?”
“I was medical-unfit for the
Army,” Otto declared. “But I
know the campaign—yes. Und I
tell you Montgomery was best.
Ja, dot is certain.”
Nick leapt to his feet and
speared Otto with an index-
finger.
“Now, that’s enough,” he
roared. “No flaming German’s
going to come out to this country
running Rommel down to me!”
His mouth opened at the full
realisation of the situation!
“And,” he shouted, “a flaming
civilian at that!”
Otto stood up. “Enough,” he
growled. “I go. I will not stop
in the same place as this man and
be insulted.”
“Well, get out!” Nick roared.
“Get to blazes out of it!”
He turned to his father. “Did
you hear him?” he demanded.
“Running down Rommel! Did
you ever hear the like of it?
Running him down, mind you—•
and him a flaming civilian! ”
“Nick,” his father moaned;
“the cane-cut, Nick! Think of
the cane-cut!”
“Oh, to blazes with it!” Nick
bellowed. “I’ll cut it myself. A
man can’t cop that about
Rommel. Not from anyone, let
alone a flaming civvy.”
“I always knew we’d never get
up the reef,” Gilly’s father
moaned. “I knew all along. Now
we’ll be lucky if we even cut-out
before the mill finishes.”
“I’ll cut it out,” Nick declared,
“don’t worry.”
“You’ll never do it alone,” his
father declared. “You can’t cut
as fast as Otto would have” . . .
“ANE thing about it,” I said
to Gilly, “they’re nylon
lines. They won’t go rotten or
anything before next year.”
Gilly chopped at a stool of
cane in silence. He flung the
stalks down savagely, and belted
at the tops on the ground with
his knife.
“Of course,” I recollected,
“we completely wasted that
exam.”
Gilly chopped on in silence.
Three cane-drills away his
father hobbled across cut-cane
stools, muttering, as he searched
for a file to sharpen his cane-
knife. Ahead the steady clunk
of Nick’s descending knife came
as incentive to our effort.
Gilly wiped a. sweating, black-
ened face on his shirt-sleeve.
“Maybe we can go fishing for
je\Vfish down the creek when we
cut-out?” I tried.
Gilly ignored the lead.
His father hobbled towards us.
“You pair of beggars go sit on
the bridge in the shade for a
while,” he said. “You look like
you need a spell.”
We walked with our thoughts
and our caneknives to the bridge
at the bottom of the cutting. I
took the corncob pipes and
banana-leaf from their cache in
the hollow log.
“Do you want a smoke?” I
asked.
Gilly shook his head. I put
the pipes away.
“It would have been all right,”
I decided, “if Otto the Storm-
trooper hadn’t come up for
Christmas-dinner.”
Gilly gazed up the hill at the
rows of burnt cane. He turned
a stone slowly with his great
toe.
“That Christmas-dinner ripped
it,” I declared.
Gilly turned to me, his face
wreathed in misery. “Ye-s,” he
moaned, “I hate Christmas!”


THE SHOWPLACES
OF AUSTRALIAN RACING
THE AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB'S
UP-TO-DATE AND COMFORTABLE
RACECOURSES
WORLD-FAMOUS
RAND WICK
Three miles from the
heart of the City.
Saturday - 31st March
Monday - 2nd April
Wednesday - 4th April
Saturday - 7th April
WARWICK FARM
Australia’s most modern and
best appointed Racecourse,
set in delightful surroundings
on the Hume Highway, near
Liverpool.
Wednesday - 2nd May
Saturday - 12th May
Wednesday - 30th May
W. N. PARRY-OKEDEN, Secretary,
6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Between
Ourselves
‘\U;
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The A.J.C.’s autumn meeting
will open this coming Saturday,
with the principal events the
£5OOO Sires’ Produce Stakes, the
£5OOO Doncaster, the £3OOO St.
Leger and the £2500 w.-f.-a.
Autumn Stakes. In all, the club
will provide £64,000 added
money over the four days of the
carnival, plus the £5OO trophy for
the Sydney Cup; and sweep-
stakes will increase owners’ share.
The £13,000 Sydney Cup will be
run next Monday.
For the Doncaster: King’s
Fair, 1 ; Arlunya, 2; Com-
pound, 3.
The Sydney Cup has attracted,
in addition to Sydney’s best
stayers, horses from other States
and New Zealand. Melbourne-
trained topline performers head
the betting-list; and in the past
decade strongly-fancied horses
have done well in the two-miler.
Sailor’s Guide looks to have
Saturday’s St. Leger in his keep-
ing and he could add the Cup
to his successes.
For the Sydney Cup: Sailor’s
■.Guide, 1 ; Dunsinane, 2 ; Regal
Forest, 3.
Those who favor the prospects
of Sailor’s Guide —one of the
best of his age in this country—
to win both the St. Leger and
the Sydney Cup have a little
history in their favor. Mel-
bourne-owned colts , Carbon
Copy (in 1949) and Lucrative (in
1941) landed both races. In 1939
Sydney-trained Mosaic was suc-
cessful in both, while Wipalot
landed the double in 1928.
The A.J.C. handicapper prob-
ably played safe when he allotted
three-year-old Arlunya 8.5 in the
Doncaster, because the colt’s
form hasn’t been striking, apart
from his decisive win in the Rose-
hill Rawson Stakes last Saturday.
He had also won at Caulfield
over six furlongs earlier in the
month. His 8.5 seems plenty,
although it is only lib. more than
he won with at Rosehill, and
that was in a w.-f.-a. contest.
Looking over Doncaster
results from the'first year (1866),
it is found that few three-yeac-
olds have been successful with
more than Bst., and, though 19 of
them have won.the Doncaster,
Arlunya will have to be as good
as his Melbourne admirers claim
to win the mile with 8.5. Bern-
brook won at same age in 1949,
carrying 8.4, and Sir William
won with 8.6 back in 1890. Out-
standing performance by a three-
year-old in the Doncaster was the
brilliant success of that grand
filly Valicare in 1926 with 8.9.
However, it should be noted that
Arlunya simply toyed with his
opponents in the Rawson Stakes,
coming from a long second-last
to win easily.
Both Arlunya and King’s Fair
were supposed to to be “under-
done” before their Rosehill wins,
which indicates that they should
be cherry-ripe for the Doncaster.
Arlunya had to make up ground
from a rearward position, but,
as stated, he scored easily.
King’s Fair had to be urged
along by A. Mulley to snatch
victory from veteran Triclinium
in the Railway Quality Handi-
cap. He carried 9.3, or lib. more
than his Doncaster impost, and
maybe he will be improved
slightly more than the Victorian.
After all, King’s Fair conceded
Triclinium 241 b., and Tri-
clinium is a speedy galloper at
his best.
Conditions of the Rosehill
Cinderella Handicap (three-year-
old fillies) didn’t favor Evening
Peal with her big weight (9.5) on
a soft track, but she still was
considered a good thing, and
started at 6 to 4 on, with betting
10’s bar one. She finished second-
last, and the hard run mightn’t
do her much good. Of course,
she could make a quick recovery,
and she will be better suited in
the Adrian Knox Stakes.
Princess Stockade, easy winner
of Cinderella Handicap, is by
Stockade (imp.) from Roamer by
Brueghel (imp.), and was one of
the cheap lots of the 1954 Rand-
wjck yearling-sales, costing only
150gns.
“Horses for courses” again
applied when locally-trained
Count Olin cleared out with
Rosehill’s Quality Handicap for
two-year-olds. Count Olin is
trained at the track by Jack
Daniels, and three starts earlier
had scored in a Maiden event
there by 10 lengths. In the
meantime he had been to Mel-
bourne for thirds in the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes and the
Ascot Vale Stakes. Despite
those performances, Commedia,
a Maiden winner at Canterbury
in January, was preferred to him
in the betting, but Commedia
quickly ran out of steam, as did
Reign, a prior-start winner.
Count Olrn, a powerfully-built
youngster, should go on to suc-
cess against top-class youngsters.
He is particularly fit at the
motnent.
Veteran owner Harry Taylor
is hoping to win the Sydney Cup
with his four-year-old Delville
Wood (imp.) gelding Regal
Forest, trained at Randwick by
E. D. Lawson and stylish winner
of Saturday’s £l5OO Rosehill
Cup. Twenty years ago Mr.
Taylfcr won the A.J.C. Cham-
pagne Stakes with Tonga. Regal
Forest carried 7.6 in the Rose-
hill nine-furlongs, and goes up
lib. in the two-miler. Like
many other Cup aspirants, he
hasn’t had a two-mile race ; but,
then, horses with no prior experi-
ence at the distance have won
both the Melbourne Cup and
Sydney Cup. Regal Forest is
related to Melbourne Cup
winner Hall Mark, and to
Murray Stream (A.J.C. Metro-
politan, twice).
“Bush” horses Court Crag
(first) and Trovatore (second)
cleared away from their city
rivals in the Rosehill Welter.
Court Crag was on the limit
(Bst.), though he had won the
Quirindi Cup at his prior start
with 8.7, the limit in that race
being 7st. Start before that
he had won at Walcha. Trova-
tore was favorite, but was no
match for the less-fancied gal-
loper, who revelled in the soft
going. Court Crag could land
another city event at any tick
of the clock.
Consistent Grand Rajah didn’t
take long to show Melbourne
Turf folk he’s still a galloper of
“Don’t just sit there—help me lift it in !”
no mean order. He had been
trained in Sydney by Leo O’Sul-
livan until a couple of weeks
ago, then was taken to Mel-
bourne to join N. A. Francis’s
team. A second to Cloaked in
the Mornington Cup was quickly
followed by his first success since
returning to Victoria. He won
the Riversdale Handicap (13
furlongs) at Moonee Valley, for
which he was strongly fancied.
He’s a really good stayer.
Randwick’s annual sale of
thoroughbred yearlings, con-
ducted by William Inglis and
Son, Ltd., will begin next Tues-
day, April 3, and extend over
four days. The catalogue com-
prises 754 lots, slightly fewer
then last season, but there will
be keen competition for the
better-class offerings. Thirteen
Star Kingdoms are listed, and
the first batch (three fillies) will
be paraded on Tuesday after-
noon by Barramul stud. The
same day Segenhoe stud will
submit a number by Nilo (imp.)
and Emperor (imp.), and Kia-
Ora stud will parade 16 of the
progeny of Delville Wood
(imp.); these last include
brothers to Prince Delville, Lord
Forrest and Hydrogen.
Several new sires figure in the
Randwick yearling-sales cata-
logue, among them Delta,
Tauber (imp.), Wellmead (imp.),
Damtar (Fr.), Bob Cherry (imp.),
Rock and Rye (imp.) and Rigo-
letto (imp.). Delta is at F. W.
Thompson’s Widden stud, and
will be represented by two colts
and seven fillies, not all from
Widden. One is a filly from
Owner’s Lass by Shogun. One
of the colts (from Widden) is
from an imported dam —Scottish
Rake, by Scottish Union —and
comes from the family which
produced Chaucer and Swyn-
ford. The other Delta colt
(offered by F. S. Bennett, of
Canberra) is from Milea, a half-
sister to Golden Plumes. Of the
other sires, Wellmead won at
If mile in England; he’s a son
of Donatello II (unbeaten in
Italy). Tauber, a son of Chanteur
11, won five races in England,
from six to 11 furlongs.
“Bookie’s Dog”: In the
decade since the war ended,
horses from N.S.W. and New
Zealand have dominated the big
events in Victorian racing.
Against all evidence, local
punters have persisted in the be-
lief that their own horses could
thrash the invaders; it’s cost
them a pile of money. It has
been a long, slow swing, but it
looks as if the pendulum is on
the way back. The Orb went
down by only an eyelash to
Kingster at w.f.a. at Flemington,
Arlunya is an extra - smart
sprinter, Sailor’s Guide won well
at Flemington in sundry starts,
and Dunsinane, who has im-
proved on the promise he showed
in the spring, won the Hobart
Cup convincingly. [This par.
came from Victoria days before
Arlunya’s slashing win at Rose-
hill.]
* * *
In a free-for-all last Saturday
night Inter-Dominion leftovers in
Sydney—andi some classy ones
among ’em—ihad a 10-furlongs
hit-out for the Lord Mayor’s Cup
(down for tomorrow night,
Thursday). In on much better
terms than on handicap condi-
tions, pocket-champ. (14.3 hands)
Caduceus proved he was all they
said of him with a stylish win.
Another Inter-Dominion runner-
up, Mineral Spring, came at him
in the straight, but didn’t look
like taking the little fellow.
Mineral Spring still has a few
rough edges to knock off; when
he does, he’ll be a world-beater.
Frosty Nelson led to the last two
furlongs, and stuck on for third
—a good run ; he’s not a 10-
furlongs horse.
In a race marred by a first-
furlong smash. Centennial Scott
won this year’s Sydney Sapling
Stakes, but did not necessarily
prove himself the season’s best
two-year-old. Country horse
Park Raid stumbled after skip-
ping in his gear, and fell in the
straight the first time, bringing
Victorian filly Clan McKay with
him and interfering with
Warrior, who took no further
.part, and one or two others, in-
cluding the favorite, General
Scott.
Friday’s heats of the Victorian
Derby were won by crack Vic-
torian filly Argent and topnotch
Perth-owned, Adelaide - trained
colt Free Hall. A 500gns. year-
ling, Free Hall was set to take the
Derbies from west to east, but
he could only manage a second
in the W.A. classic prior to a
win in the S.A. Derby ; now he’s
first-elect for the Victorian run-
off this week, and could make it
three out of four in Sydney. He
rated 2.13 j for the 12| furlongs.
Making amends for her frumpy
form in the Sydney Sires’ Pro-
duce, Argent sat on the leader
like a lamb and bounced-away
at the word “Go!” for a 3yds.-
decision from speedy First Rank ;
she rated 2.13 f, but won the
strongest division.
Although the Inter-Dominion
has to be won through a series
of heats and a hard grind to the
final (itself always a gruelling
run), Gentleman John has
refused to let all that stop him.
In the Richmond Free-for-All,
on the Derby programe, he raced
for most of the 14 furlongs out
in the centre (where races aren’t
often Won), hit the front at the
distance and fought-off challenges
like a champ., beating a field of
topliners. His young owner-
trainer-driver, Eric Rothacker,
reckoned it his best run yet.
*+* +
Canterbury-Marrickville (Syd-
ney) Soccer-club coach Ber-
nard Bryant, a former Chelsea
(Eng.) first-division centre-for-
ward, has designed a “shooting-
box” for his forwards to practise
on. He claims that it develops
quick-thinking, accurate and
powerful goalkickers. Apparently
it does ; and early in the sea-
son. Last Saturday, on a very
heavy ground, worsened further
by long, uncut grass, Canterbury
began the season by defeating
Auburn, with one of the
strongest defences in Sydney
Soccer, 6-3; Test goalie Ron
Lord kept out half-a-dozen other
shots which looked certain goals.
* * *
Sculler Merv Wood won two
strenuous races on the one
recent Saturday afternoon, at
Sydney Rowing Club’s metropoli-
tan regatta—the senior single-
sculls from promising young
Stuart Mackenzie (who was born
round about the time Wood was
over at the 1936 Berlin Olym-
piad) and, an hour or so later,
the double-sculls with his Empire
Games partner Murray Riley,
from another good pair, Mac-
kenzie and Peter Evatt. Wood
has won, among other titles, eight
Australian singles-sculls, and
will try for his ninth title at
Ballarat in May; whether he
wins it or not, he seems certain
to represent, at either single- or
double-sculls, or both, at what
would be his fourth Olympic
Games, in Melbourne in
November.
* * *
An Australian table-tennis
team of four —two Queens-
landers, Anderson and Robin-
son, and two Victorians, Jen-
nings and Matison —has left for
Japan to take part in the world
championships from April 2 to
April 11. Japan is the world-
champion table-tennis nation,
having taken that rank over from
the Hungarians. This is one
sport in which Australia is not
in the top flight; but the team
should get some good experience.
*• * *
In golf, Ted Rigney won the
N.S.W. Cup from fellow-amateur
Cec. Rhodes. Rigney had a two-
round aggregate of 144 —three
up on Rhodes.
f * *
“Lesbo”: Nambour (Q.)
Chamber of Commerce and In-
dustry has given valuable sup-
port to Maroochy Amateur
Swimming Club in promoting a
novel carnival. Twenty-nine
teams have been organised for
handicap events. The teams are
comprised of bankers, shop-
assistants, canefarmers, bean-
growers, fruitgrowers and many
others. This is Nambour’s first
such carnival, but similar ones
have been successful in other
Queensland towns, particularly
in northern areas.


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” no. 21*
w.
£
1
I
% r <i>
m
sm
*
'^T'' W W v
Cradling on the first field
The First Shipment of Gold
The first payable gold in Australia was
found by Edmund Hammond Hargraves
near Bathurst, New South Wales, on
April 3, 1851. Two months later, the
first shipment of gold was sent to Britain.
Records indicate that the first consign-
ment of gold to leave these shores was
brought to Sydney from Bathurst by
four men—Messrs. Campbell, Ferris,
Hindson and Brown. It was quoted as
worth about £l,OOO and included two
fair-sized nuggets. The larger of these
nuggets weighed 46 oz. and was described
as “the Goliath of the Australian
diggings”—an indication of the innocent
zeal of the times, for this “Goliath” was
to be dwarfed time and again in the
years to come. In July, 1851, for in-
stance, an aboriginal shepherd at the
Turon River, N.S.W., found a nugget
weighing 1272 oz., and between 1853
and 1871 twelve nuggets each weighing
more than 1000 oz. were found in Victoria.
The first consignment of gold to leave
Sydney totalled 253 oz., 10 cwt. and was
carried on the Thomas Arbuthnot (672
tons), Captain Heaton. Of this gold,
249 oz. was consigned by Smith, Camp-
bell and Co. to D. Dunbar, Esq., of
London, with instructions that, it should,
if possible, be put on public exhibition.
The immense expansion in the gold in-
dustry which followed is shown by the
fact that, between August 1 and December
6, 1851, Victoria alone shipped away
31,734 oz. This included nearly 27,000
oz. on the Hero.
A major reason for the tardy flow of gold
exports at'the time was that ships arriving
in Sydney, Melbourne and Geelong were
often deserted by their entire comple-
ments (who joined the vast throng of
gold-seekers off to the diggings) and had
to find scratch crews for the journey to
England.
Since Australia produced nearly half the
world’s gold output in the 1850’s (the
figure to-day is less than 3 per cent.), the
export of gold to Britain became an im-
mensely valuable source of revenue to
shipping companies. In addition, it
attracted a flood of migrants and was a
major factor in the growth of our main
cities.
Total shipments of gold from Australia
in 1852 amounted to 856,000 oz. The
largest single shipment that year (98,900
oz.), was carried on the 478 tons barque
Phoenician, Captain Sprout.
Since 1851, Australia has sent abroad
many hundreds of tons of gold, worth
some £800,000,000.
First in Quality First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUHDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
♦ Copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application .
HF2I
MICKY
By ELIZABETH LANE
IT was a February evening.
Hot, terribly hot. The sun
had sat on our roof-top all
day and had now gone down,
leaving behind such an oppres-
sive sticky stillness that both
doors were open to help the old
house breathe.
It wasn’t long before we could
hear the creaking and the strain-
ing of the wagon and Father
occasionally coaxing the tired
horses to “Geddup,” or “Get-a-
move-on.”
The summer had been a long
and dry one and Father and the
elder boys had been carting water
for months. They were now even
having to cart it for the stock,
and Father, boys and horses all
appeared to be very tired of the
job.
When the wagon drew level
with the house Father climbed
down and told the boys to leave
the tank on the wagon for the
night; just back it into the
machinery-shed, then feed and
water the horses and come up
to tea.
Father called out to them not
to feed Micky; he wanted to
mix in some oats with her feed.
I must explain here that
though the buggy-horse was a
mare, for some reason long since
forgotten she was always called
Micky.
IV/I'ICKY was Father’s own
spoiled baby (Mother often
said he paid her more attention
than he did the children), and
though Micky had long ago been
pensioned-off and declared un-
safe because she stumbled badly,
Father still pampered and fussed
over her.
When Mother suggested selling
her, thereby having one animat
less to cart water for, you would
have thought Mother had been
referring to the four youngest
children instead of the buggy-
horse.
Why, the very idea was pre-
posterous, cruel, wicked, shame-
ful, and he’d thank Mother not
to refer to the subject again.
Why,* hadn’t he reared her from
a foal, first having to feed her
from a bottle, and hadn’t he
broken her in himself, and hadn’t
most of the youngsters learned to
ride on her? He’d rather lose his
right hand thap sell Micky. She
was born on the farm, part and
parcel of it, and there she’d stay
as long as she lived.
Father was a great talker;
always stopped and had a yarn
to anyone and everyone he met
on the road, and should a vehicle
—any type of vehicle be
coming towards us Micky would
always pull-up dead when the
vehicle got opposite us. Mother,
when driving Micky, found this
very annoying, particularly
should it be a stranger or hawker
approaching, and, though we
youngsters would start laying on
the stick, it had no effect, Micky
always stopped, much to
Mother’s embarrassment.
Micky as a young mare was
cunning; as a middle-aged one,
both lazy and cunning; but since
neither she nor Father was often
in a hurry they got along nicely
together.
If, however, Father was want-
ing to catch the morning’s train
with a can of cream, the routine
was slightly different.
A flick on the rump with the
reins—she never felt it, or pre-
tended not to feel it; never
altered her pace from a slow
walk. Should we kids jab her
with a stick (when Father wasn’t
looking, of course) or should
Father, in sheer desperation, tap
her lightly with a stick, she’d
trot for a full twenty-yards.
A second tap produced a ten-
yard trot and, if Father still felt
the need for haste and hit her
again, she’d trot for no more
than five-yards. Most times, by
this, Father had given up and a
slow walk it would be for the
next few miles before the hurry-
ing performance was repeated.
■pATHER that night fussed
over Micky as usual,
groomed her, watered her, and
fed her oats with her chaff,
before coming in to tea.
The meal proved extremely
uncomfortable. The fire from
the stove, although it had only
just enough wood on to keep
the kettle boiling, filled the
kitchen with a stifling heat. The
moths, beetles and flying-ants
were constantly falling in the
melted butter, jam and every-
thing else on the table.
The lamp was stood on a tin
tray of water which quickly
filled with the drowning insects,
and several times large moths
dropping into the lamp-glass
threatened to put the light out
with their frenzied fluttering.
We children, jammed up close
on the long, deal stool, were
jostling each other for elbow-
room when a rumble of thunder
made us momentarily forget our
grievances.
Mother said it would be
heaven to have plenty of water
for washing; Father said if they
only got a few rungs in the tank
he would be happy. Charlie said
it would be good-oh if their
water-carting was over. Tom
was talking to Mother when he
said it would be nice to be able
to wear a white shirt to a dance
once more.
Just as Mother was serving
the junket and quinces, a heavy
rumble of thunder crashed over-
head, almost upsetting the sauce-
bottle on the table; then about
a dozen drops of rain fell heavy
on the iron roof.
Then you could have heard a
pin drop.
Mother said if there was going
to be a storm she would like
everyone to hurry up and finish
their tea for she would not
handle cutlery in a storm —not
since that time poor Mrs. Marny
was struck while washing-up.
i
TT suddenly got so dark you
couldn’t see the outline of the
blacksmith-shop and the con-
tinuous tingling of the telephone
told us that the storm was very
near.
Mother began furiously wash-
ing the dishes, and all hands
turned-to and helped ' with
the drying-up and putting-away.
Mother turned the mirror to
the wall, so as not to “draw” the
lightning, before sitting down at
the end of the table to embroider
yellow daisies on my brown
woollen frock. Somehow the
storm, rather than the daisies,
seemed to claim most of
Mother’s attention ; she sat there,
the light from the lamp picking
out the silver streaks in her hair,
and the work lying idly in her
lap.
The heavy rain began pepper-
ing down —no longer in fits and
starts. Charlie said that it was
nice to hear it raining, for light-
ning wasn’t nearly as dangerous
after rain as before it.
Father had been quietly read-
ing the local paper and was on
his second time through it, when
he suddenly sprang up, lit the
lantern, put a box of matches in
his pocket, grabbed an old Army
greatcoat from behind the wash-
house door, threw it over his
head and, sheltering the lantern
under it, turned to Mother say-
ing, “I’m going down to let
Micky out.”
He hurried through the door.
“Why does Father have to
go and get wet just because
Micky is frightened of storms?”
I asked.
“If your father felt Micky
would be less frightened here in
the kitchen with us, I’ve no
doubt that that is where she
would be,” said Mother.
After what seemed a lone
while (but must have been only
about ten-minutes) Father was
back with us. The lantern was
now out and a dripping-wet
Father stood in the doorway.
The elder boys grinned at each
other and said nothing; Mother
looked up as though, she, too,
would grin ; then thought better
of it and instead bent her head
over her work.
Father, knowing that he cut a
ridiculous figure, glared at every-
one and said, “Well!”
Mother said quietly, “Hadn’t
you better get those wet clothes
off before you catch a death of
cold?”
The storm raged for hours,
and the water rushing and gurg-
ling into the iron tank must have
been music to our parents’ ears,
but we younger ones were so
afraid of, the thunder and light-
ning that we refused to go to bed,
preferring to fall asleep on the
long, kitchen stool, the chairs or
the floor.
-EVERYTHING about the
place was so fresh and
different next morning. There
was quite a big crabhole (the first
for many months) under the
gumtree (the sheep-tree, we
called it) used for sheep-killing,
and the deep ruts of the night
before near the road-gate were
now little rivers that completely
covered our ankles.
We youngsters were busy
bustling around the kitchen get-
ting off to school, and those
who weren’t bustling were being
bustled, when Father suddenly
burst into the room. His face
was the color of dough, his eyes
were red and suspiciously watery-
looking and he sank heavily into
the nearest chair.
He couldn’t speak for a minute
or so, but we knew by the heavy
blue vein pulsating over his right
temple that he was very upset,
and, when he did speak, forced
out the words in a rasping voice,
“Micky’s dead . . . struck by
lightning . . . she’s still standing
wedged in between two trees up
the paddock . . . one tree wasn’t
even touched.”
Mother was washing the
breakfast-dishes and the big iron
spoon falling from her hand hit
the tin dish with a terrific clatter ;
then Father repeated what he
had said (half to himself) and
Mother said, “Oh, dear; oh,
dear,” several times, then walked
over and laid her wet hand on
Father’s shoulder.
Father didn’t seem to notice,
nor even care, that Mother’s wet
hand was sopping his shirt
through.
“Poor old Micky,” said
Mother.
, A momentary stunned pause,
then we children began arguing
as to who could have it for news
for school. Observation-notes
were a “must” at our school.
“A stroke of bad luck,” said
Father sadly ; “that’s what it is,”
and Mother, now washing and
rewashing the big iron spoon
without being aware of doing
so, said, “Well, she was old and
it would be a quick death, so
maybe it was an act of Pro-
vidence.”
TOM, out of earshot from the
A kitchen, leaned up against
the washhouse wall and, wearing
Father’s hat and coat and with
Father’s pipe in his mouth,
sucked hard on the little bent
stem for a second, removed the
pipe and spat into the wind
before saying in a very good imi-
tation of Father’s voice, “Rats!
When your number is up you’ll
go, and that’s all there is to it.”


BY APPOINTMENT
>0 m MAJESTY THf QUEEN
(PURVEYORS OF UOTORIUBRICANTS
ZLWAKEFIEID £ CO. LTO. LONOON W.l
Hi*- 0
motoA
SOU
C> vV
mourned
it ■>
for
(Quniit
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE COMMUNIST LINE
ORITISH and American press-
** estimates of the new
Communist-line as indicated at
the Twentieth Congress of the
Soviet Communist party:
London “Economist” : “This
Twentieth Congress marks the
official funeral of Stalinism, a
ceremony organised by icono-
clasts and unaccompanied by
the usual laudatory orations.
The demigod is buried, together
with his myth, and the Short
History of the Party, designed
to establish the legend of an
omnipresent genius, has been
tossed into the grave.”
The same: “In the first place
Mr. Khrushchev had to explain
once again why wars are not
‘fatalistically inevitable’ and to
justify the doctrine of peaceful
coexistence. In substance his
argument was that the alterna-'
tive to coexistence would be ‘the
most destructive war in history.’
Thus Mr. Khrushchev was
grudgingly restoring to favor the
temporarily discredited principle
that a nuclear conflict would
spell the doom of humanity as a
whole and not only of the
‘capitalist world.’ ”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post” : “What Mr.
Khrushchev did was to try to
reconcile the theory of peaceful
coexistence with the Marxist-
Leninist theory that while
imperialism exists wars are
inevitable, and he did so by say-
ing, in effect, that circumstances
alter cases. In other words, the
claims of practical politics are
stronger than those of party-
dogma. This is a most import-
ant admission.. It does not prove
that the Russians’ intentions are
pacific ; but it does prove that
they are not guided by any such
nonsense as a belief in the ulti-
mate fated conflict between their
world and that of capitalism.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger, in “New
York Times” : “Clearly Khrush-
chev seeks to adjust official
Communist credo to conflicting
Soviet requirements. On the
one hand he wants to retain an
iron hold on lEastern Europe.
No other way than Stalin’s
seems to have been discovered.
But to keep the diplomatic
initiative Moscow has seized in
other and less-static areas, he
has had to admit the validity of
many of Tito’s claims.
“Khrushchev discarded rigid
Stalinism when he agreed with
Tito that the world is no longer
divided only into two blocs of
capitalist and Socialist States.
Now he recognises grey areas in
between. He accepts Tito’s
theory that more than one road
leads to Socialism. He admits
this ideology can gain power by
other than revolutionary means.
And he discards Lenin’s dictum
that war is inevitable while
capitalism exists.”
* * *
N.Y. “Herald Tribune” edi-
torial comment: “The core of
the Marxist-Leninist dogma has
always been the phrase from
The Communist Manifesto of
Marx and Engels: the Commun-
ists ‘openly declare that their
ends can be obtained only by
the forcible overthrow of all
existing social conditions.’
“Now Comrade Khrushchev
asserts that Communists may
work through democratic insti-
tutions, and that the possibility
exists ‘of gaining a firm major-
ity in Parliament and converting
it from an organ of bourgeois
democracy into an instrument of
genuinely popular will.’
“In other words, the leader of
the Communist party has stated
a Social - Democratic thesis —
that Red revolution can come
through Parliamentary means —
and. urges a resumption of the
‘popular-front’ idea to achieve
this goal.”
* * *
Marguerite Higgins, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “In the
United States laws for the
prosecution of Communist
leaders have been based on
presentation of evidence in
United States courts that Com-
munists advocate the forcible
overthrow of the Government.
But here is Mr. Khrushchev ahd
the entire Soviet Communist-
party congress saying that this
is no longer so. In some cases
Communism can be achieved by
using existing legal machinery.
“American Communist
leaders will undoubtedly insist
that they are —and intend to act
—peacefully within the law.
Now they have Mr. Khrushchev
to back them up publicly with a
speech that will be a Communist
bible. What happens now to
our Government’s case?”
* * *
John and Stewart Alsop, in
N.Y. “Herald Tribune”: “Really
amazing self-confidence is
required for this sort of thing,
in a society where a charge of
ideological deviationism is used
like a dagger in the back.
Khrushchev, and the lesser-
lights who followed him, could
not possibly have gone so far
unless they were genuinely
unafraid of any internal
challenge to their power.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “It is
quite certain from recent events
that Russian leaders have lost
their obsessional fear of contact
with the West, a feature more
characteristic of the Stalin era.
The Pavlovian conditioning of
the Soviet people is now so com-
plete that their leaders have little
to fear from Western contacts
or propaganda, which would
automatically be assessed in
Marxist terms. The real iron
London “Dally Mail"
CAST-OFF
curtain is a thing of the mind,
much older and more impene-
trable than the geographic
dividing-line.”
* * *
“Times of India” : “The Com-
munist hierarchy is seized from
time to time by an irresistible
mood of self-commiseration, and
there emerges a catalogue of
errors from which it claims to
have been liberated.”
London Time and Tide .*
There is also a danger that
others in the West, who are
always seeking pi oof that the
Soviet system is striving towards
democratic liberalism, will
persuade us that Stalin s succes-
sors have thrown his aims over-
board along with his reputation.
“We have the assurance of
Mr. Khrushchev himself that
nothing of the sort is intended,
The impending collapse of
capitalism, imperialism and
colonialism are still basic
doctrine. Moreover, the repen-
tant Stalinists have apparently
not the slightest intention of
giving up any of Stalin’s ill-
gotten gains in Eastern Europe.”
# . * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“A time for recantation comes
sooner or later to most political
parties, but it is characteristic
of the Communist party that the
process is carried out with the
maximum publicity and the
minimum dignity.”
The same : “Three features of
Soviet policy still rouse the
deepest distrust.
“First is the refusal to give up
the idea of the Soviet Union’s
mission to convert, and so
eventually to dominate, the
world. The link between
Moscow’s strategy and Com-
munist mischief-making in the
free world is flagrantly obvious.
Until there is recantation on this
matter there can be no real con-
fidence between the Soviet
leaders and ourselves.
“Second is the enormous scale
of Soviet armaments, which
hangs over Europe like a great
cloud.
“Third is the cynicism that
Soviet diplomacy shows in
action, whether in arming
Colonel Nasser and the East
Germans, or in lying about
Burgess and Maclean, or in
appealing to peoples over the
heads of Governments —a tactic
we [Britain] must expect when
the Soviet visit to this country
takes place.”
Greek Elections
The victory in the Greek elec-
tions of Premier Karamanlis s
National Radical Union- over
the Democratic Union (a hetero-
geneous collection, including
Liberals and Communists) was
a very narrow one —a “wingless
victory” Cyril Falls calls, it w
London “Time and Tide.’
Although the Karamanlis
party was returned, it was signi-
ficant, comments New York
“Herald Tribune,” that the
Communists won a major vic-
tory by being accepted into a
Popular Front cpalition, which
is the technique currently
espoused by Moscow for con
verting a Parliament ‘from an
organ of bourgeois democracy
into an instrument of genuinely
popular wifi,’ to quote Mr-
Khrushchev.
“Only a few years after tney


AwuhuvlM
an issue at par of £2,500,000
'
currencies from 3 months
to 20 years at your option.
INTEREST
6%
5i%
CURRENCY
7 to 20 years
4 to 6 years
3 years
Interest per annum, payable
free of exchange .
INTEREST
5 %
CURRENCY
24 months
1 2 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange.
6% per annum (compounded) 4 to 20 years
Interest automatically re-invested annually
principal more than DOUBLES in 12 years, more
than TREBLES in 19 years.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organization
Established over 25 years
Assets exceed £4O/000,000
Underwriting Brokers to the issue: lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne and Sydney
Industrial
Acceptance
Corporation
ltd.
Sydney - Melbourne - Brisbane - Adelaide
Perth - Hobart
56.1. 38
¥
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
LONG TERM
6i%
SHORT TERM
5%
CUMULATIVE
6%
PROSPECTUS
may be obtained from:
ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and all Branches of -
E. S. & A. BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
and
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LTD.
were engaged in tearing the
heart out of Greece in a bitter
civil war, the Communists have
been given respectability and
influence by leaders of parties
which once were strongly anti-
communist.”
There was more to it than
that. Although the winning
party scrambled back with a
majority of about 20 seats, it
received 200,000 fewer votes (in
a poll of 3,000,000) than its
opponents. As London “Daily
Telegraph” notes, “more than
half the electors voted for a
bloc that campaigned under the
neutralist slogan of ‘Equal
friendship with East and
West’ ”:
“There can be no doubt that
these (and also many who voted
for the Radical Union of
Mr. Karamanlis) are deeply
aggrieved against the West —
against Britain over Cyprus,
against Turkey because of the
riots, and against the United
States for its alleged want of
sympathy.”
Still, the “D.T.” continues, “it
would be unwise to take a
passionate mood for a perman-
ent swing of opinion, and to
interpret the election-result as
an immediate challenge to
Greece’s Western alignment”:
“The Centre parties,, which
constitute the main strength of
the Opposition, are certainly not
pledged to the slogans of their
temporary Leftist allies. Their
influence is likely to be exerted,
when political expediency
permits, towards reconciliation
with Britain and Turkey. The
main ground for concern is that
the narrowness of the result may
throw Greece back into political
instability.”
British Service-pay
Commenting on the increased
pay-rates for the British services,
London “Daily Mail” cites the
case of a W.0.l who, “with 22
years’ service will receive £l4 14s.
a week”:
“This, with £2 16s. for his
wife, plus board, lodging, and
clothing, puts the R.S.M. easily
into the £lOOO-a-year class. At
the end he can retire, a com-
paratively young man, to a job
in civilian life, with a pension of
£6 a week and £586 in the bank.
This is, indeed, an attractive
prospect.” '
And if that, to a private,
sounds like the yarn about the
field-marshal’s baton, it is still
true enough—one result of the
extra £67,000,000 a year Britain
is to pay its Navy, Army and
Air Force.
Holding that there are very
sound reasons for the extra ex-
penditure, the “Daily Mail” adds
that “if it should lead to such an
increase in the Regular Forces
that National Service can be
abolished (which is the idea
behind it) the country will save
money in the end.”
The trouble in the past, “Man-
chester Guardian” comments on
the same subject, has been that
“the Army has been dogged
since 1946 by the difficulties of
its constantly changing personnel
and the R.A.F. and Navy have
not been able to keep their ex-
perienced men as they must”:
“In the Army it has been a
continual bother that no infantry-
platoon or tank-troop was able
to work together as a team for
more than a few months, because
it was always someone’s time to
finish his National Service or to
end a short-term Regular engage-
ment. And in all three services
the wastage of long-term
Regulars has been serious,
because, when they had to choose
between signing-on again and
going out into civilian life, the
financial advantage was too often
on the civilian side.
“The changing round of per-
sonnel has been costly both in
training and in transport, since
men have often had to be
brought back from the Middle
East or Far East without com-
pleting a full tour of duty there.
The aim now is to move towards
forces consisting mainly of long-
term Regulars. On its achieve-
ment, and on a reduction of com-
mitments overseas, depends the
ending of National Service.”
For other reasons, too, it is
held to have become more
and more important to retain
trained men in the services,
and not the least of these
is the increasing complexity of
modem weapons. Britain’s latest
Defence White Paper noted that
“the new weapons will demand
for their proper use increasingly
high standards of training and
maintenance.”
Those things, it is contended,
cannot be had when there is a
rapid and continuous turnover
Of men, but now, London “Daily
Telegraph” comments, “it pays
to stay in the Services”:
“It pays the man and it pays
the State. For example, a private
who joined in 1954 for only three
years carl increase his pay by 50
per cent, if he signs on for six
years, and by 75 per cent, if he
signs on for nine years.
“To the State he is worth two
men on a three-year engagement,
and, what is more important, he
may rise to be one of that hard
core of Regular N.C.O.s that a
Regular Army must have.”
Porf-turnround
The problem of port-turn-
round is only too painfully
familiar in Australian harbors,,
and some comments in London
“Financial Times” by Peter Duff,
editor of “The Shipping World,”
would seem to be as pertinent to
Australia as to Britain.
There is now, Duff writes,
adequate tonnage to carry the
present volume of seaborne
trade, but efficient use cannot be
made of it because “the rate of
flow is restricted by the bottle-
necks at the ports”:
“Apart from occasions when
port-congestion arises, either
because a dock-strike has oc-
curred (which is only too fre-
quent) or because (more rarely)
more ships happen to arrive
simultaneously at a port than it
can adequately handle all to-
gether, the fact remains that ships
today spend far more time in
port than at sea, for one reason
or another, than they used to
do before the war, despite the
fact that post-war ships are pro-
vided with more efficient cargo-
handling gear and arrangements.
“This state of affairs naturally
leads to a great and unnecessary
increase in the cost of ocean-
transport, which is particularly
harmful to the British economy,
dependent as it is so much on
import and export trade. The
extra cost of more efficient ships
is wasted, and their earning-
power reduced ; more tonnage is
required to carry a given amount
of seaborne trade ; and the in-
evitable result of these two
factors is higher freight-rates.
“The complexity of the now-
permanent port-turnround prob-
lem is assuming frightening pro-
portions. It affects so many
involved interests the port-
authorities, who, in general, are
responsible for providing the
facilities; the shipowners who
supply the ships; the shippers
who send and the consignees
who receive the cargoes; the
National Dock Labor Board, a
composite body which disperses
the functions of employers of
labor ; the trade-unions, not only
of dockers and stevedores, but
also of waterrpen and lightermen
and the like; the providers of
ancillary services ; and finally the
Customs and hosts of other
experts in red-tape.
“The crux of the problem,”
Duff concludes, “appears to lie
not in prescribing remedies, such
as improved facilities, better rail-
performance and access by road,
speedier removal by consignees,
more organised control of ship-
ments, better organisation of and
co-operation from labor, more
mechanisation and less opposi-
tion to it, and so on. Suggestions
for these are freely forthcoming ;
but what is lacking seems to be
the co-ordination of many dif-
ferent interests.
“In the early years of the war,
conditions in the ports became
nothing less than chaotic. Only
the appointment of a virtual
‘port-dictator’ eased the strain,
and remarkable results were
achieved. Such a solution might
not be acceptable in peace-time,
but it is difficult to see how any-
thing but high-level co-ordina-
tion can achieve results, backed
by the willing co-operation of all
parties and the determination to
exploit new conceptions of cargo-
handling methods.”
British Labor Jubilee
Greetings from London’s Lib-
eral “News Chronicle” to the
50-year-old British Parliamen-
tary Labor Party:
“There is an obvious tempta-
tion for a man or a movement,
at the age of 50, to look back
rather than forward. The Parlia-
mentary Labor Party has every
reason for intense pride in many
of its achievements.
“Revolutionary changes in
Britain have been brought about
without resorts to the barricades
in the face of deep traditional
prejudices. The pioneers who
fought social injustices have been
vindicated, and millions today
are happier and healthier for
Socialist victories.
“But success at 50 bears its
own dangers, and among the
greatest of these are a lack of
momentum, a decrease of spirit,
and a tendency to"* become static
in a changing world. All these
dangers are visible in the present-
day Labor-movement.”
Various Voices
Soviet Defence Minister Mar-
shal Zhukov : “If you want to
strike atomic blows at your
enemy, you must be prepared to
receive the same, and perhaps
more powerful, blows from him.”
John Cowles ( president, Min-
neapolis “Star and Tribune”) :
“The Communists are clearly
gaining throughout much of
Asia. Whether the people of the
United States will come to
appreciate quickly enough what
is now happening in the under-
developed areas of the world, or
whether we will wait passively
until the backward countries
begin to accept Moscow’s
political and economic philo-
sophies as their model, is the
overriding political question in
the period immediately ahead.
Compared to it s most of our
other problems shrink into
insignificance.”


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
H
■
m
m
Mr. Nat Orr, Chairman of the Nelungaloo District Rural
Co-Operative Society Limited, Parkes, says: ‘7 have always
used Ampol Power Kerosine and oils on my property because
I am convinced you cannot buy better. The service, too, has\
been first class during the many years Vve been a user
Use the best . . . Australia's own
H
a
a
Oi
f
a
a
TO
POWER KEROSINi
Plus Ampol Distillate 9 Lighting Kerosine
9 Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFMI.33
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Writer and husband (no children)
require small, peaceful flat in Sydney
—Cremorne Point, Kirribilli, Woll-
stonecraft, Greenwich, Waverton
areas preferred. —6286.
A Chinese student (18), residing in
Hong Kong, would like to correspond
with Australians of either sex (over
16). Hobbies are reading, music,
movies, correspondence and rowing.
—6282.
To buy a real boomerang.—62B3.
To sell two black-and-white
originals (framed) by B. E. Minns.
—6284.
To buy first-edition copies of
Mervyn Skipper’s The Meeting Pool
and The White Man’s Garden. —6285.
When and where were camels first
brought to Australia ?
A lone camel, the survivor of three
bought at Teneriffe, is supposed to
have been the first of his kind to
enter Australia: he was landed at
Port Adelaide in 1840. In 1860 the
Governor of Victoria, Sir H. Barkly,
was authorised to buy camels from
India for the Burke and Wills expedi-
tion, and 24 camels from Peshawar,
“of both the fleet and heavy species
were landed in first-class order.” Six
yeare later Sir Thomas Elder,
buyer of the one first camel,
imported 100 camels, many of which
died from a virulent mange. The
rest were acclimatised on his Beltana
(S.A.) property, and bred freely.
“They thrive,” said station-manager
Philipson, “on the natural shrubs,
especially ' saltbush and various
acacias, and never eat grass unless
driven by extreme hunger.” These
camels were used during the con-
struction of the Overland Telegraph-
line (1871-73).
* * * *
Some information on the warships
of World Wars I and II which were
named Nestor?
War I Nestor, built in Glasgow by
A. Stephen, was the second Royal
Navy vessel of that name. Completed
in April, 1916, she was an Admiralty
“M”-class destroyer; 1025 tons;
three 4in. guns; six 21in. torpedo-
tubes; speed, 34 knots. When only
a month out of dock, the Nestor was
leading the 13 th Flotilla against the
German battlecruiser-squadron in the
first destroyer-attack at Jutland.
Heavy gunfire crippled her as she
pressed the attack, and, firing her
last torpedo at the oncoming battle-
ships, she was open prey for enemy
guns. Six men were killed and many
were wounded, the survivors, includ-
ing Commander Bingham, being
taken prisoner. Bingham later
received the V.C. The next Nestor
was also built in Glasgow —by Fair-
field —and also had a short career.
H.M.A.S. commissioned in 1941, she
was Javelin-class; 1690 tons; six
4.7 in., one 4in. and several lighter
guns; five 21 in. tubes; capable of 36
knots. Prowling the Atlantic,
Mediterranean and Indian Oceans, v
snooping-round East Africa and
tying-up with the Bismarck-hunt, she
got into quite a few scraps. Off Cape
Trafalgar in December, 1941, she put
a big Nazi sub. under —for good.
Her commander, Rosenthal, came
away with D.S.O. and Bar. Then,
with a Malta convoy south of Crete
in June, 1942, the Nestor was
bombed and badly damaged. The
following morning she was abandoned
and went under, her remaining crew
having been transferred on to Javelin.
She had done 16 months’ duty.
* * * *
Words and author of the verse
“The Wreck of the Brunkencrunger-
crob,” which appeared in The
Bulletin some years back ?
“The Wreck of the Brunken-
crungercrob,” by H. Tate (Victoria),
appeared as an illustrated full-page
verse in the Christmas-number
(Dec. 15), 1910. It goes:
Brief Answers
J.D.: English actor Percy Marmot
played the lead in the film “It Winter
Comes” —the English version, which
was the original. There may have
been a revival and, if so, it would
have most likely been American
C.R.M.: On record are William
Carter, London, 1700-40; William
Carter, Tooley-street, 1795; William
Carter, Tooley - street, 1805-25;
William Carter, Waltham Stowe,
1808-26. Some further details —e.g.,
pillars, case, type of wood, etc. —
would probably enable us to pinpoint
it C.L.K.: Collector’s values for
coins are as follows: 1812 English
tradesmen’s tokens, 25.; 1820 silver
crown, 305.; 1822 silver crown, 255.;
1841 Russian one-kopek, 2s. Secre-
tary of the Numismatic Society of
Australia is Mr. K. Irons, 6 Rae-
street, Randwick, N.S.W R.H.:
Regarding your query on company-
taxes : the reply, since it is too
lengthy to print, will be sent to you
if you let us have your address
E.S.: To obtain proper advice on this
matter you should write to the
Department of Labor and Industry,
Martin-place, Sydney, describing the
work required to be done by the
employee, and asking to be sent a
copy of the appropriate award. The
hours, properly workable, if there is
an award, will be set-out in the
award, and if there is no award the
department will no doubt inform you.
R.H.W.: In fact, if the property
is put in the joint names of your
wife and yourself, it is quite possible
that more duty would be payable
than if you leave things as they are
at the moment, because, if your wife
died first, you would have to pay
death-duty on half the value of the
property. In addition, to put the
property into your joint names, you
would have to pay gift-duty
R.C.: (1) No information on Robert
Camm other than a brief mention in
William Moore’s The Story of Aus-
tralian Art, in connection with the
first Federal Exhibition held in
Adelaide (1899): “The trustees of the
Adelaide Gallery allowed a certain
sum for the purchase of pictures from
the Sir Thomas Elder Bequest of
£25,000. At the first exhibition the
trustees purchased works by Henry
Fullwood, Julian Ashton and George
Lambert (New South Wales); Robert
Camm and E. Phillips Fox (Victoria),
and John White and J. L. Wilson
(South Australia), the amount
expended being £289 10s.” The
N.S.W. and Victorian Art Galleries
have not been able to give any addi-
tional information. We may yet get
something more detailed; if so, it will
be sent to you. (2) Most old paint-
ings are rejuvenated by reframing;
best done by a professional framer,
who will advise as to the best frame.
The brundub thunder snarched above
The swisslembifferous sea,
While drimbled Mugfrugs boofkutunked
And Swunklers crunked in glee.
It was the Brunkencrungercrob
That shodded in the blast.
The Mugfrugs fierce had blorked the
screw,
And swonglecranked the mast.
The flearded few that held the deck
Were streeleweeled with fright,
For oh, the frightful Swankebrowsb
Was skirpling through the night.
They saw the Unkterspronks at play,
Their souls in horror sunk.
The Unkterspronks, the Swankterbowsh,
The Hootlejumptibunk.
And as the stykled ship went down,
The Swankterbowsh drew nigh
And morgled them by twos and threes —
A glumbrious way to die.
He slorpaljised the lot! And then
The Hootlejumptibunk
Came aj him with a sterkrious yell
And hortched him with a crunk.
The brundub thunder s’narched above
The swisslembifferous sea,
While drimbled Mugfrugs boofkutunked
And Swunklers crunked in glee.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
K.M.: A few unimportant
thoughts on a holiday L.T.G.:
Suggestion that Australians should
“awake and help the great Austra-
lian, Menzies,” formally noted....
F.McG.: His sweetheart played the
violin to him, and he got better.
And that’s all there is in it
F.A.: Statement that the drover
intends to get drunk if the barmaid
jilts him noted without surprise....
E.C.D.: It’s all there, even to the
villain’s fur-lined overcoat 5.8.:
Your fashionplate hero is the most
frightful prig we have thrown out this
year... .8.M.: Ah, here is a human
touch!: —
He was tender in his feelings, he was
kind; .
But his wife she had a nasty sort of
mind ; , ,
So he turned for comfort to a lady sweet
as honey,
Who helped him in his struggle to pay
the alimony.
J.R.: The weather is bad enough
without having all that snow around.
A.M.: “Thump! Thump!
Thump! The fish pushed the boat”
right out of the office M.H.: How
light some poets bestow their verses
on editors... .H.A.: Received one
billabong minus bunyip, returning
one billabong minus bunyip
W.D.L.: Afraid that you’ll have to
“cut anxious teeth on stars” else-
where. .. .G.V.McL.: Can’t' use it,
but thanks for the warning J.E.:
Send it to a religious journal
J.T.S.: There was no need to inform
us that it was a first effort....
W.T.H.: We very much doubt
whether:
This tale will be told in many a shed
Where weary shearers toil,
Or in a pub when work is at an end.
M.C.: We are not bursting to
place before our readers your “Ode
to a Garbage-tin” beginning:
Here’s to our stout and trusty aide,
A friend throughout the year.
Battered and bent it makes the grade
And keeps the garbage clear.
R.W.G.: No bunk in The
Bulletin for the homesick stockman.
N.B.: That particular mountain
L..s sunk down to sleep in our basket
many times P.W.: Well, it lS
you that said it:
I eat and I drink, I sleep and I think,
I read by night and by day.
I write with my pen and my ink,
But I have little to say.
D.R.: Can’t allow you to
“empty your mind of every moan
in our columns... .R.T.D.: At th
moment 252 George-street is saturated
with dewdrops R.C.M.: Side-
stepped your masterpiece describing
“a drunken man running into Pa-
of a bus, sustaining serious head
injuries”....E.J.B.: Duly noted that
“to lay the odds on steeds and dogs,
Australia will be there”...-C.ri.c-..
That’s bad news for the poets:—
In the ugly world of car and trams,
Poetrv herself must die;
Starved for what she most demands.
The sympathetic, loving eye.


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 m the State ol New South Wales on 18th September, 1947, as a Proprietary Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December, 1952.)
4 AUTHORISED CAPITAL £5,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £1 each
1,371,545 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each
£2,000,000
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each .. .. .. .. •• 300,000
2,300,000 £2,300.000
HELD IN RESERVE
2,700,000 Shares of £1 each 2,700,000
5,000,000 £5,000,000
300,000
NEW ORDINARY SHARES
OF 20/. EACH. PAYABLE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
CAPITAL REQUIRED to Operate Valuable Caterpillar*
and other Franchises in Rich Developmental Territories
The extra funds sought by this issue are necessary for additional working capital to secure the greatest possible
returns by thus increasing the efficiency of the operation of the valuable franchises held by the Company and its
Subsidiaries:—HASTlNGS PEERING (QUEENSLAND! PTY. LIMITED, HASTINGS PEERING (N.T.) PTY. LIMITED,
HASTINGS DEERING (NEW GUINEA) PTY. LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO. OF PEORIA, ILLINOIS, U.S.A., owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., Caterpillar
Diesel Tractors and Earth Moving Equipment for
STATE OF QUEENSLAND
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA
SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS
JOHN DEERE, C.A. OF MOLINE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territories.
HYSTER COMPANY OF PORTLAND, OREGON, U.S.A. Hyster Winches, Tractor Equipment and Industrial Trucks for the
same territories, t
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION OF LIMA, OHIO, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and Draglines for the whole
of Australia.
CATERPILLAR'S WORLD STATUS!
i Throughout the world the most-bought tractor on tracks
is Caterpillar.
# In Australia, too, Caterpillar Diesel Tractors enjoy by
far the highest user preference, as every year more Cat-
built tractors are sold than any similar type.
Caterpillar and Cat are registered trademarks of Caterpillar Tractor Co., TJ.S.A.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
Consolidated
Net Profits Dividend
After Tax Rate
Year ended 31st August, 1053 •• •« £71,977 12j|%
Year ended 31st August, 1954 ~ .. £118,940 12|%
Year ended 31st August, 1955 . . . . £202,141 12
(FIGURES FROM AUDITORS’ REPORT)
This record of well-advised management and sound operation of valuable franchises
augurs well for the future development and profits of the Company.
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to participate in returns and dividends
from the expanded future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE.
The proceeds of this issue of New Ordinary Shares are proposed to be applied
as working capital for the development of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE.
Applications must be made upon the Application Form accompanying the Prospectus,
dated Ist March, 1956, and must be lodged direct with the Company’s Office. Copies
of the full Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained upon application to
the Company’s Office.
The shareholders of Hastings Diesels Limited will be given absolute priority of allot-
ment of shares applied for not later than 31st March, 1956. Any shares not then
applied for by such shareholders will be dealt with as the Directors may determine.
The Directors reserve the right to close the issue at any time without notice, whether
the issue be then fully subscribed or otherwise. In the event of applications being
received for more than 300,000 New Ordinary Shares, the Directors reserve the right
to allot additional shares ranking pari passu in all respects with the New Ordinary
Shares offered by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such additional shares, if allotted,
will be for the purpose of providing further working capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION.
The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised by the
issue of shares offered for subscription by this Prospectus is £20,000, being required
solely as working capital.
The"* are no founders, management or deferred shares.
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, .77 Abbotsford Road, Homebush, N.S.W., Chairman and
Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR, Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W., General Manager.
LESLIE EUGENE BRANDON, 61 Seventh Avenue, St. Lucia, Qld., Manager.
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennant Hills, N.S.W,, Merchant.
HORACE ALLAN HASSALL, 36 Trelawney Street, Eastwood, N.S.W., Accountant
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road,Cronulla, N.S.W., Merchant.
JOHN DUDLEY LOBB, Lum Road, Wheeler’s Hill, Victoria, Architect.
ROBERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE, 29 Shellbank Avenue, Cremorne, N.S.W., Engineer.
WILLIAM JOHN PEARSON, Alice Springs, Northern Territory, Manager.
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin Place, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES, F.C.1.5.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Copies of the Full Prospectus may he obtained from the Company’s Registered Office.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to Prospectus have not teen fully complied with) ie published for
information only and is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe. The Prospectus, of which this ts an
advertisement, is dated Ist March, 1956, and copies thereof have been filed respectively with the Registrar-General in New South
Wales (who takes no responsibility as to its contents), the Registrar of Companies in Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia
and Tasmania and the Registrar-General in Victoria. , , , ,
Applications will be received only upon one of the forms of applications referred to in and endorsed upon a printed copy of the
Prospectus.
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE NOT LATER THAN 12 NOON ©N SATURDAY, 30TH JUNE.
1956. CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO THE ALLOTMENT OF ANY SHARES OVERSUBSCRIBED, PROVIDED
THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY WITHIN THE TIME STATED.
THE DIRECTORS HOWEVER RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CLOSE THE ISSUE AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE.
WHETHER THE ISSUE BE FULLY SUBSCRIBED OR NOT.
NOTE: The
minimum subscrip-
tion having been
received the
Directors have
proceeded to
allotment.
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Ltd.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
Name
Address
State
8.283


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tourists
Much of the present talk on attracting
tourists to Australia is based on the
assumption that the only kind of tourists
worth having are millionaires. True, Aus-
tralia would benefit greatly from annual
jaunts of a few dozen of these, but an
annual influx of thousands of not-so-rich
tourists would give a similar return.
Neither politicians nor tourist-traders
seem to be giving a thought to them.
For politicians, of course,, it is a dis-
comforting thought, since it is part of
their responsibility to provide the very
things that would attract these tourists —•
comfortable and inexpensive transport
and accommodation. In a country as
large as Australia these two services need
more emphasis than they do in a smaller
country, yet no politician has shown the
ability to provide the first or the courage
to ensure that publicans provide the
second.
Tourist-traders, from municipal aider-
men to cafe proprietors, need to smarten-
up, too. The poor condition of roads and
footpaths in many first-class tourist-
resorts won’t win admiration from criti-
cal visitors, and despite post-war Contin-
ental and American influence there is
still a lamentable lack of comfort and
manners in our cafes, not to mention the
absence of reasonably-priced, well-cooked
food.
The not-so-rich tourist is worth attract-
ing. He is the backbone of the European
tourist-trade, and because there are more
of him than of his millionaire counter-
part he is a better advertising agent when
he returns to his own country. — Badiped
(N.S.W.).
Asian Relations
A Government supporter in the Federal
Parliament lately maintained that Asians
were interested in our political ideologies,
and that mutual understanding between
us would be improved by explaining Aus-
tralian democracy to those simple people.
I don’t think Asia is very interested in
our democracy, but it is interested in our
land, water and the rest as described by
those who are fond df talking about our
“illimitable resources.”
In “Walkabout’’ of January, 1947, there
was an article on “Australia’s Water
Resources” by J. D. Lang, 8.C.E.,
A.M.1.E., once Queensland’s Commis-
sioner for Irrigation and now associated
with the Snowy scheme. Pointing out that
“Now, smarty, aren't you glad I threw all that money away on a
sponge-rubber, air-cushion mattress?"
“water is the governing factor of all
human existence and activities,” he gave
some details of Australia’s water-supplies.
Australia’s average annual rainfall,
Lang noted, is 17in., as against 29in. for
the U.S.A. The Murray, Australia’s only
very large river, has a drainage-area of
44,000 square-miles and an average
annual discharge of 10-million acre-feet.
The U.S.A. has 10 rivers, each with
greater discharge than the Murray, and
the 10 cover two-thirds of the area of the
U.S.A. Altogether they discharge 90
times more than the Murray basin.
When, and if, all Australian water-
resources are fully developed and con-
served the total area that could be
irrigated would be five-million acres or
one-quarter of 1 per cent, of Australia’s 1
total area. \
The Nile haS three times the rainfall of
the Murray, but seven times the discharge.
Anyone with a good atlas can complete
the picture by comparing Australia’s area
and rainfall with those of other large
land-masses and noting the relation
between rainfall and population the world
over.
There is no sense in arousing envy in
our neighbors by giving them a false
picture of Australia —E.B. (Q.).
Compulsory-voting
Tasmania’s Senator George Cole, till
July the lone Anti-Communist Labor
representative in the Senate, has urged
that compulsory-voting at elections be
abolished. Though he didn’t give it in his
speech, his reason is obvious.
If voting became a matter of please-
yourself, the apathetic, in large numbers,
would often give it the go-by, while
supporters of Senator Cole’s party, zealots
most, would seldom fail to line-up. The
apathetic and uninterested, whether we
like it or not, do vote for one or other of
the two main parties. The Anti-Com-
munist Senator knows this, and thus sees,
in the abolition of compulsory-voting, the
best chance of making sure of the presence
of members of his party in both Houses.
While that might be snug for Senator
Cole and his friends, the abolition of
compulsory-voting could open thei
way to his foes, the Communists. They
too, could benefit, particularly as regards
scraping a place in the Senate.
I once favored the abolition of compul-
sory-voting because I felt that no man
should be dragged unwillingly to the
polling-booth—though if he didn’t vote
he should accept without quibble whoever
might be elected as his representative. I’ve
long since realised that, with fanatical
minority-groups about, our freedom is
best protected by compulsory-voting.
Compulsory-voting gives, as a rule, the
Government the nation wishes; non-
compulsory often does not. — Maros
(W.A.)
“Marks in the Sky”
Jack Lusby’s very readable “Marks in
the Sky” (B. 2/2/’56) gave me mental
indigestion working out what made his
Z’s gee. Liquid-oxygen, high-explosive
fuel and rocket-tubes appeared to be
about the place, but all the juggling was
with the 0 2 .
With the whistles and the dribbles,' the
whole works would have been nicely
iced-up. “The whistle of liquid-oxygen
steaming-off”! Good grief! That’s the
oxidant going west faster than money
down the drain.
No wonder Chandler couldn’t be
located. He wasn't a satellite. He was
on the ground, oxygen-happy in his
pressure-sealed cockpit withdut a clue as
to his location or actions.
I’ve been around with all the usable
oxidants, and still sweat when I recall the
near-misses when things happened to
these temperamental aids to progress.
Liquid-oxygen boils at minus 183° C.
To keep it behaving in storage and in
fueling is an expensive and challenging
business. Tanks, pipelines and fittings
are insulated to the nth degree. If any-
thing starts to whistle, all hands dive for
the concrete blockhouse. The safety
cooling-devices come into action and de-
com. and rescue-squads stand ready.
With a couple of tons of the stuff in
Z 2 that “steaming-off” should have sent
the mother-ship’s crew streaking for
cover.
Extracting the data given and putting
the pieces together, I think the Z-models
were controllable winged-missiles with a
main liquid-fuel propulsion-unit using
liquid-oxygen and either alcohol or h.-o.
petrol. Solid-fuel boost-rockets in tubes
around the exhaust-orifice would get the
craft away from the mother-ship and
start the vertical climb. -The liquid-fuel
“Ow !"
then comes “bang-on”—no dribbles,
please—and the pilot celebrates all his
known and unknown birthdays in under
three seconds.
Such a craft, released at 50,000 ft., with
the given fuel-capacity and velocity and
a “guestimated” mass-ratio of 3-to-l,
could reach an altitude of 33.3 miles
above sea-level in 34sec. That’s the end
of the liquid-fuel, but “free ascent” would
add another 17 miles of altitude. If there
remained a couple of boost-rockets he
might reach 120 miles high.
Kepler’s laws being still operative, the
craft then comes back to earth, hoping
that the wing-span is all right and the air-
brakes really efficient —the terminal im-
pact-velocity is 947 m.p.h.
Now, if Jack Lusby had added some
“fission”-packaged fuel, with its four-
million-to-one energy-punch over other
known fuel combinations, then Chandler
and Hackett would have gone for keeps.
Don’t ask me where !
Anyhow, it was a jolly good yarn
Old Opencut (S.A.).
Management
Large businesses generally have their
own trained staff to keep a close watch
on management- and production-costs,
but small organisations are not always
so fortunate.
The small man often can’t realise that
it is large turnover with small profit per
unit which enables big companies to
carry on successfully. He tries to com-
pete, arguing that he can do so because
his overhead is so low. He employs, say,
half-a-dozen men, a girl in the office,
runs a car and finds that a good per-
centage of his time is given to administra-
tion ; at the end of three or four years
he wonders why he has only marked-time,
although his article is good.
In those years he has made a few bad
debts in his anxiety to get business and
because he fears offending by asking for
money. The point missed is that costs
are too great for the volume of out-turn.
As a bank-manager I know the fore-
going reasons are the cause of many
failures, and I have stressed and urged
in discussions that management-charges
must be given first consideration if a
business is to succeed.
While practical knowledge of the job
is necessary, the theory of management is
equally important, and to anyone starting
his own business it will pay handsome
dividends. —C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Advertising
Although any plea for truth in adver-
tising would probably fall on deaf ears
(“G.M.,” B. 14/3/’56), it is not entirely
the fault of the advertising fellows. We
are so conditioned to expect advertising
to shine more brightly than the dull,
unpolished truth that the purely factual
advertisement attracts little attention. In
practice, I suppose, we unconsciously
allow for exaggeration, and apply this
mental deduction even when —as occas-
ionally happens—the copywriter has con-
fined himself to a bald and truthful
description of the goods.
Some years back the tobacco-com-
panies were vying with one another to
extol the social virtues of. their products.
The ads. consisted mainly of pleasant
anecdotes, in picture and story, telling,
say, how young men introduced their
favorite cigarette or pipe-mixture to
their bosses, who were so soothed and
delighted that they forthwith granted
substantial rises, promotions, etc. Un-
pleasant arguments between neighbors
were settled by the friendly passing of
a tobacco-pouch over the side-fence.
The knottiest problems were easily
solved if you smoked a couple of X’s
specially-blended fags. /
In a laudable attempt to be different,
one cigarette-manufacturer deliberately
“wrote-down” his product, poking gentle
ridicule at the claims of other manufac-
turers. Weedo cigarettes, it was openly
confessed, would not earn overseas trips,
rises or promotion, nor would the offer
of one to a personal enemy make him
change his mjnd about taking legal pro-
ceedings. All that was claimed for
Weedo cigarettes was that they were “a
very good smoke.”
There was “truth in advertising” if you
like, but it just didn’t get results. After
a very short trial the advertisement was
withdrawn, and the company reverted to
the “pitch-it-good-and-strong” style. So
far as I can recall, this factual —and
apparently non-selling—line of advertis-
ing was not attempted again. It had been
proved to the company’s satisfaction that
“truth in advertising” simply did not pay.
The moral of the incident may be a
trifle obscure, but the lesson to advertisers
is obvious. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Lethal Weapons
It should please “Doynest” (B.
29/2/’56) to know that more than
10,000 Westralian spear-fishermen have
welcomed legislative action on their
sport. The Spear-guns Control Act, 1955,
enforces the safety-rules accepted by
members of the W.A. Underwater
Spearfishermen’s Association. It pro-
vides penalties about as potent as the
dangerous weapon it controls, each in-
cluding possible confiscation, and areas
of total prohibition may be proclaimed.
Enforcement is by police and by fisheries-
inspectors, who, in addition to normal
powers of arrest, may seize without war-
rant any gun apparently unsafe or likely
to be useful as evidence.
Spear-guns must be designed to a trig-
ger-pressure of not less than 31b. and so
that they cannot be discharged uninten-
tionally ; the spear must be adequately
capped ; and except when in actual use
in the water they must be carried un-
loaded.
Discharge above the surface means up
to £25-penalty. So does their use for
any purpose other than spear-fishing or
within 50yds. of other swimmers. With-
in 50yds. of a line-fisherman comes a lot
cheaper at £lO, perhaps because line-
fishers are competently aggressive in
defence of their claims. The guns may be
used by children under 14 only under
adult supervision—the lower £ 10-penalty
applies here, too. „ . „
There is also a £25-penalty for usin o
a spear-gun in circumstances likely to
result in injury to any person or property.
That should be broad enough to cover
even unexpected stupidities.
On Rottnest, the holiday-resort
Fremantle, the Board of Control has
banned spear-fishing entirely—the gun
are not allowed on the island or in
surrounding waters. This o( % curre
largely because irresponsibles made ta -
gets of quaggas, the friendly little ma
supial-rats from which Vlammg nar \'
the island. Public indignation speedea
the passage of restrictive legislation.
Apemantus (W.A.).


Bond Holdings
The confidence of Government bond-
holders has again been shaken by a fall
in values which presages a general rise
in the rate of interest.
The history of Commonwealth securi-
ties since 1930 is worth following. First
the interest-rate was reduced by the
Scullin Government, or Premiers’ Plan,
and that could happen again. Later,
under the Menzies-Fadden regime, ad-
vantage was taken over certain options,
and conversions were made at lower
rates of interest —quite legal, but not
expected by holders.
The latest move also has the thrifty
and patriotic citizen at a disadvantage.
Surely the financial advisers of the Federal
Cabinet and the Treasurer don’t think
they can Still secure support from private
citizens for their loans under the present
conditions. If they want money they
must establish confidence by stabilising
the market-value of bonds at, or near,
par.
I know that the Treasurer promises to
repay the full amount at a certain date,
but the unfortunate citizen or estate-
representative who needs his money has
to sell at a capital-loss. At the same time,
the keen buyer on the sidelines makes a
profit at the expense of a deserving but
unfortunate section of the community.
Not very nice, and the consequence will
be that loan-money will be harder and
harder to raise.
Take, for instance, the 3| per cent,
securities maturing in 1963. Loan-organ-
isers and bank-managers—accredited
representatives of the Treasury—urged
people to invest, and privately and pub-
licly stressed that they would be able to
sell their bonds at any time should they
require the funds at, or near, face-value.
The market-value now is about £88!—-
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Tropical Cyclones
“Old Book” (B. 7/3/’56) asserts that
the formation of a tropical cyclone on
the N.S.W. North Coast is a ‘‘meteoro-
logical impossibility.” He points out that
cyclones which ultimately affect northern
N.S.W. have previously affected Queens-
land, having formed many hundreds of
miles away.
He is right enough there—-most tropical
cyclones which later affect Queensland
and N.S r W. form over the Fiji Islands
and to the north and east of Willis Island.
From these two areas the storms move
either west (in the case of Fijian storms)
and then south, or (in the case of Willis
Island storms) due south.
But to suggest that cyclones cannot
form over the North Coast is taking
things a little too far. The essentials for
cyclogenesis are a mass of tropical
humid air and a surrounding mass of
cooler, drier, southern air. The rise of
the warm air leaves a hole into which
the cooler air flows at an angle of about
30 degrees, caused by the earth’s rotation
deflecting the air-flow.
The presence of a dip in the isobars
over southern Queensland is usually
closely followed by the formation of a
closed depression. Under the push of
the “highs” in the Bight, this mass moves
east-south-east into the north-west Tas-
man. As soon as it reaches the sea it
intensifies, and so we have a tropical
cyclone. Some of the storms forming
over the Tasman Sea are whirls on the
line of temperature-pressure discontin-
uity. These whirls are specifically asso-
ciated with the strong, cold fronts of
winter, and formations of this kind over
the north Tasman are responsible for
Queensland’s sharper winter frosts. Once
in the temperate zone, a “tropical
cyclone’* is no different, in structure from
an “extra-tropical cyclone.” It assumes
the same structure as the storm of higher
latitudes, since cold air enters on the
southern side and Warm dir on the
northern side.
“Old Book” also suggests that the posi-
tion of the cyclone when it forms con-
trols its future movements. To a certain
degree he is right, but, as many text-
books on the subject state, the position
and strength of the high-pressure systems
has a more' important bearing on the
cyclone’s movement. There are countless
examples of tropical cyclones being forced
off the beaten-tracks by unusually strong
“highs” in an influential position. Most
notable example of this during the last few
years was the February cyclone of 1954,
which three times attempted to move
away into the Tasman. Each , time the
strong “high” pushed it back over land, as
the people of Tweed Heads, Coolangatta
and Lismore well know.
Although it is difficult to plot accur-
ately the future course of a cyclone,
”We cant remember bow to put it together again.”
surely the weather-bureaus could be a
little nearer the mark than they generally
are. “Old Book” refers to the Brisbane
bureau as being very accurate in its plot-
ting of storm-tracks, but Queenslanders
will know from experience that the
bureau usually issues its storm-warning
to a locality in the path of a storm when
the storm has either long since passed
over or has veered away and is threaten-
ing some other town. Some of the fore-
casts are as ridiculous as the example
“Old Book” quotes, and one need not
be very bright to realise that the fore-
casts issued for today generally fit in
perfectly with yesterday’s weather.
The installation of radar warning-
stations promises more accurate forecasts
in the future, and our daily weather in-
formation may at least be up-to-date.
It is hard to say whether the total
diameter of the storm has any relation
to the size of its centre. Most textbooks
are very vague on the matter or skip it
altogether.
From observations of West Indian
hurricanes in I. R. Tannehill’s Hurricanes
it seems that, generally, a large cyclone
(750-1000 miles across) has a relatively
small central area, with diameter of 30-
50 miles, registering a barometer-reading
of between 27.9 in. and 28.8 in. On the
other hand, a small storm (250-400 miles
across) usually has a fairly large centre
(60-70 miles across) in comparison with
its total surface-area. Of course there are
many exceptions to the rule. A small
cyclone usually has a central pressure of
29.01-29.3 in.
The typhoons of the China Seas all
have centres more than 30 miles across
(27.8-28.5 in.), some being as large as 150
miles. The tropical cyclones of Queens-
land latitudes usually range between
10-60 miles in diameter (centre) and the
usual range of central pressure is 28.5-
29.4 in.
As “Old Book” notes, people living
beside the sea always have plenty of
warning of a cyclone’s approach; away
from the sea, less obvious, but just as
infallible, signs of its approach become
apparent as much as six days before a
storm arrives. The most important sign
along the Queensland coast, so I have
found, is the unexpected rise in the baro-
meter-reading after a quasi-stationary
period of as much as a day or so. This
rise is fairly sharp (.05-1 in.) and almost
immediately the pressure begins to fall
again.
This sharp rise is associated with
strengthening south-easterlies, and during
the afternoon there occurs the “three-day
squall”—three days after it the first cirrus
clouds of the periphery appear over the
north-eastern or eastern horizon. Some
learned meteorologist might explain this
phenomenon —it has proved correct 6n
three different occasions. The squall
usually forms suddenly, appearing on
the eastern or south-eastern horizon, with';
nimbus, strato-cumulus, and low-level
cumulus and scud. The squall moves
rapidly across the sky, accompanied by
35-to-40-mile-an-hour winds and some-
time heavy, sometimes light, rain.
What is amazing is that there is only
the one squall; never does Another follow
it, as one might expect if a freshening
south-easterly stream was the cahse.
This development must be significant;
since the barometer immediately begins
to fall, the winds begin to freshen; and
the clouds thicken during the following
three days. The cyclone will always
centred between the New Hebrides and
Fiji whed the squall hits; all the rest
follows on —assuming, of course, that the
storm holds its westward drift. The first
high cloud will appear when the cyclone
is 700-800 miles north-east of the observer
and, by this time, the wind will be quite
fresh. —M. Childs. (Q.).
Perth Transport
Thirty years ago, when the Singers,
Citroens and Chevs. made their appear-
ance in working-class suburbia, it was
prophesied that Perth’s railways and
ferries would be museum-pieces by 1956.
As if to prove the seers correct in their
predictions, each year rail-patronage
showed a steady decline and ferry-routes
on the Swan were discontinued, till only
one was left operating.
Saturation-point is rapidly approach-
ing in city-parking, however, and the two
forms of transport which were considered
outmoded are coming back into their
own. Each month fast diesel-electric
trains are carrying commuters in greater
numbers, and the South Perth ferries,
which faced extinction three years ago;
have been given a new lease of life.
Until the parking-problem has been
solved, the train and ferry will again play
a vital part in Perth’s suburban transport-
system.—C. A. L. (W.A.).
Country Party
I have been a Liberal-supporter for 64
years, but I have always held it unfair
for a Liberal to contest what is obviously
a country seat.
It seems an intrusion when Liberals
stand for seats which are absolutely
within primary-production areas. The
three-cornered contests in Mudgee,
Young and Dubbo in the last N.S. Wales
elections could have been wisely left to
one Country-party candidate.
Three-cornered contests are seldom
without some heartburning and clashing
of personalities. It is impossible for
unbiased goodwill to actuate the minds
of opposing candidates, even though their
policies may be similar. That is very
noticeable when an Independent stands
against a sitting member.
In the case of the seats lost in the
recent election there is no doubt that some
jealousy and even vindictiveness occurred.
Though candidates agreed to exchange
preferences, in each electorate ait least
17| per cent, were given to the Labor
candidate. Such defection is, in cases,
deliberate—“lf we cannot get our own
way, we won’t let the other party
benefit.”
The Liberal party should agree to
leave Country-party seats outside a re-
stricted zone t 6 those whose interests
are with primary production. I have
had wide experience in many elections,
and I have never seen three-cornered
contests without some bitterness and
personal jealousy. Liberals, unfortu-
nately, have too many members who are
selfishly trying to eliminate the Country
party. — Nonagenarian (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 375
Across
I—lll1 —111 batsmen at the wickets against
a private American taint contra-
diction where meaning lacks a
statement about its existence. (10)
s—Villainous5 —Villainous skin cut down a barren
hill. (4)
B—Siren8 —Siren of the Rhine is learning a
Hawaiian garland. (7)
10 —A hundred like to find a buyer
for a publisher donkey in a
prison room. (7)
12 — So mother hides the sander. (8)
13 — Richards might answer if this
little antelope is called. (3-3)
14 — Where to rest Aubrey’s smears.
(7)
16 —Love a twitch of the ear. (4)
19— Ingenuous backing for an
inspirational poem by Kipling.
(4) ...
20— They say this is money in ancient
Greece. (7)
23 — Fat Elizabethan ruler in the
pantry. (6)
24 The most twisty mongrel dis-
honesty by a very good fellow.
(8)
26 More stylish fish balancer turned
a row. (7)
27 Instrument gives some kind of
relief shortly. (7)
28 —Bankrupt sculpture. (4)
29 —Red paint from Lough Cuckoo?
(6-4)
Down
1 — Measures the candid 50 in ah
Australian writer. (5,8)
2 Ran up the rank which isn’t
wide. (6)
3 I can age the Northern Territory
when journeying. (9)
4 One 63,360 th of a mile. (4)
6 Flat fruit today? (4, 4)
7 Food appearing in Columbia’s
pictures. (5)
9 —Correspondence with a landlord.
(6)
11 —Red to study a way of standing
a wide part of the upper Rhine.
(4, 9)
15 —Wager the drone is on the bed,
but handled this. (9)
17 — The Red Shadow is often
diaphragms. (8)
18 — Courses prepared by King
George before the sicknesses. (6)
21 — French from a portion item
which is discreditable? (5)
22 — Over an improper home for
Romeo and Juliet. (6)
25 —Number in opera articles about
Rhode Island. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 374


■gcnawowy
_ CENTURY'S NEW
Home Lighting Battery
with these WONDERFUL
NEW FEATURES
CLEAR POLYSTYRENE CONTAINER
y ■ ■
# •
You con see the acid level at a glance.
2
GRAVITY INDICATORS
Stdte of charge visible at all times. No need for
hydrometer.
SILVIUM
The magical new additive giving longer plate life and
increased efficiency.
GLASS INSULATION—
ensures longer life and GREATER POWER.
GUARANTEED
YEARS
ft
3
mm
■S&.
m
mm.
mm
; ■
mM
c
CENTURY'S NEW Glass Insulated with SILVIUM
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY. Type CFG 227.
0
0
r
a
n|li
■ill 111
These inbuilt visual ball indicators show clearly
and instantly the state of charge of the battery
at all times.
Va
GLouSS 1/yuS uXcttfccL atiXH
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
NMAIIS
Made by
CENTURY
STORAGE
BATTERY
CO. LTD.
Alexandria,
N.S.W.
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS. TRUCKS. TRACTORS. EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT. MOTOR CYCLES. RADIO,
HOME LIGHTING ARE DISTRIBUTED BY:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Smith Sons &
Rees Ltd., 30-32 worth Avenue, Sydney. Bradley
Biros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney. Industrial
Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road,
Lidcombe. Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.,
515 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant A Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre A Motor
Service, 61 Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser A
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery A Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker A Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.,
sole concessionaires, I 5 Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart: 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty-
Ltd., Darwin.
