

nm
/
■m
e
i
e
n
SOLERO
SWEET OJR DRY
m
The Bulletin
DON'T MISS “BRIGALOW"— mge 20
The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3986
Wednesday, July 4, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
AT THE SHRINE OF THE BARD,
STRATFORD-ON-AVON
WORLD-FAMOUS Stratford-upon-
Avon in the heart of Warwickshire
had its origin as a Romano-British
village. This settlement beside a ford
across the River Avon explains the
derivation of its name. In 693 a mon-
astery was established there. Three
hundred and seventy years later, at the
time of the Norman Conquest, Stratford
consisted of a small community of
people who are chiefly engaged in agri-
culture.
In 1196, in the reign of King John, it
was granted a weekly market which still
exists. The town is the centre of a
predominantly rural area, bounded on
the south by the beautiful Cotswolds,
the Vale of Evesham and the Edgehills ;
a countryside noted for its farms and
market gardens, with scattered wood-
lands, parks and orchards.
In 1553 Stratford became a self-
governing borough and during Shake-
speare’s lifetime it prospered with
market activities and as a centre of local
crafts. Its importance was partly due
to the building of Clopton Bridge across
the River Avon at the end of the 15th
century by Hugh Clopton, a native of
Stratford who became Lord Mayor of
London. This late medieval bridge with
its fourteen stone arches, still in’existence,
laid the future prosperity of the town.
Later, the growing appreciation of Shake-
speare began to reflect itself in the
increasing number of pilgrims who
travelled from far and wide to visit the
Shakespeare shrines.
The most convenient itinerary for visit-
ing these places of interest in Stratford
commences at Clopton Bridge and not
far away is the Shakespeare .Statue,
shown in the accompanying illustration.
This statue was the work of Lord Ronald
Sutherland Gower and it was presented to
the town in 1888. The small figures at
the four corners depict Hamlet, Lady
Macbeth, Falstaff and Prince Hal,
symbolising philosophy, tragedy, comedy
and history.
No. 305: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


SPECIALIZE!
STOTT’S has helped thousands, by
Specialized Home-Study Training, to
achieve success STOTT’S can help
YOU.
Mail the coupon today for full particulars: —
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Commercial, Station)
Accountancy
English/Arithmetic
Intermediate Certificate
Dresseutting/Design
Showcards/Tickets
Window Dressing and
Display
Commercial Art
Drawing-Sketching
Fashion Illustrating
Caricature/Cartooning
Livestock Breeding
Dairy Farming
Soil/Favm Crops
Testers/Graders
Dairy Supervision
Handwriting
Herd Testers
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Salesmanship
Advertising
Kadio (for Amateurs)
Engineering: Motor,
Diesel, Mechanical,
Electrical
Draftsmanship: Mech-
anical, Architectural
Builders’ Courses
Engine Drivers
Boiler Attendants
Electric Wiring
General Education
Stammerers’ Course
Backward Adults
n
100 Bussell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereaeh st
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth 11
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
oi STOTT’S; Please send me, free and without
obngation, full particulars of your Correspondence
Course/s in
MY NAME
ADDRESS .
S.B. 1356 .
Age.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
RABAUL AND AFTER
David Selby’s Hell and High Fever
(Currawong) is the tragic story of the
young Australian militia boys of an
anti-aircraft battery, most of them
under 19, and their more mature A.I.F.
infantry comrades, who retired into the
jungles of New Britain after the
Japanese had captured Rabaul.
Of the 1400 troops who formed
Rabaul’s defence-force, more than half
were captured, or later, having
attempted escape, surrendered. Ironic-
ally, more than 800 of these were
drowned when the Japanese transport
Montevideo Maru was sunk, allegedly
by an American submarine, whilst
transporting the prisoners to Japan. Of
those who evaded capture, some
journeyed to the north coast and about
200 went south in the mistaken belief
that a point nearer Australia offered
better chances of rescue.
Lieutenant David Selby, O.C. A/A
Battery, Rabaul, went south. “Hell and
High Fever” is, therefore, the story of
the south-coast trek, which proved the
more difficult and tragic. It is a story
of heroism, grim humor and appalling
hardship. It is also a record of military
muddle in high places.
As early as mid-December, 1941,
shortly after Pearl Harbor, the author
approached the area-commandant to
ascertain his battery’s function in the
event of an overwhelming enemy force
driving the infantry out of Rabaul.
“We haven’t got up to that yet,” he was
told. Permission to requisition for star-
shells to illuminate the bay should the
enemy attempt a night-landing was
refused.
Selby’s gun-site was perched pre-
cariously on the edge of a 600 ft. drop.
So crowded were conditions on the
ridge that the command-post was only
five yards from the muzzle of one of
the two 3in. mobile guns. An obsolete
ring-sight telescope completed the
equipment; no predictor and no height-
finder—heights had to be guessed. Only
six of his 52 men had seen or heard the
guns fire. Permission to fire a few
rounds to accustom the men to their
vicious crack was always refused. No
plane was available for gun-laying prac-
tice. A model plane was therefore
constructed and attached to a long
bamboo pole, and this was piloted
about the site by an honorary “Pilot-
Officer.”
Even so. when Selby’s boys made
history on January 4, 1942, by firing
the first shots from Australian territory
at an invading enemy, they performed
remarkably well. In the many air-raids
that followed that first raid the enemy
never ventured below 16,000 ft. Tokio
radio, after one raid, acknowledged
the loss of seven aircraft.
When the enemy’s plans for invasion
became apparent from their careful
avoidance of installations such as the
wharves and wireless-station, Selby
again asked what the plans were should
a withdrawal become necessary. “That
is a defeatist attitude, Selby!” he was
told. “There shall be no withdrawal.”
A week later when a driver returned
from the infantry-camp where he had
gone to pick up the daily rations and
reported that the camp was deserted
and the food-stores locked, Selby
phoned immediately to Area H.Q. and
was informed that the previous day a.
large enemy convoy had been sighted
steaming in their direction and that the
infantry had gone to battle-stations.
H.Q. had forgotten to inform him! It
is not difficult to imagine the effect on
the morale of these young boys—the
enemy approaching (some hours later
they spotted 25 enemy ships), forgotten
by their Area H.Q. and with no plan
of action other than the negative one
of fighting to the death.
This they would have done (in prac-
tice defence of the ridge they had often
killed thousands of Japs in theory
•before they were theoretically wiped
out) had not an order been received,
late on the afternoon of the invasion
night, to destroy guns and join the
infantry defences.
It was in this unprepared condition
and mental confusion that they paused
to fight, then fled, outnumbered anc
outgunned, the order “Every man fo
himself” having been given. Selby and
his men entered the jungle in th
belief that troops would regroup and
carry on jungle warfare. The com
mandant later returned to Rabaul and
surrendered.
On the long and painful procession
of 360 miles from village to mission
from mission to village, day afte
tortuous day for five weeks, over razor
back mountains and through numerous
fast-flowing rivers, the daily mea]
sometimes limited *to one mouldy army
biscuit per man, many died—shot
bayoneted or victims of malaria
dysentery and tropical ulcers—but
never through lack of care from the
heroic and untiring medical-officer
Major Palmer, or through indecision
or incompetence by the officers under
the inspiring leadership of Major Owen
who later escaped to lead militia forces
at Kokoda.
Many incidents in this long-overdue
but timely record (timely as a reminder
that the northern defences of Australia,
appended as we are at the foot of Com-
munist Asia, should never again be
neglected) will remain indelibly
engraved on the reader’s mind. One
such story, already well known, is the
suicidal but gallant attack of six
Wirraway pilots who hurled their train-
ing-planes at 50 Jap Zero fighters, all
six going to their deaths within minutes.
The different reactions of the four
missionary priests— two German, one
Irish and one Australian—to requests
for help by Australian troops will also
be remembered. So also will the story
of Selby in the role of monumental-
mason, carving names and regimental-
numberrs on headstones, but refusing,
on the grounds that their numbers con-
tained too many twos and eights, to
carve in advance the headstones
requested by two officers who felt Selby
might die before them. And the story
of the greasy pack of cards that was
progressively depleted by rats, entail-
ing replacement by home-made cards
which were so conspicuous that any-
one seen buying to a pair of them in
a poker game was immediately suspect.
There is also the story of Father Harris,
like Selby, a graduate in Law from
Sydney University, who refused to be
rescued with the troo'ps and whom they
thought of kidnapping, but who
remained to be murdered.
W.N.P.
Australian Folksongs
Two new “Black Bull” chapbooks
edited by Hugh Anderson (from the
Rams Skull Press, Lower Ferntree
Gully, Vic.) are Botany Bay Broadsides
and Songs of Billy Barlow.
Now bound in attractive stiff-paper
covers instead of the slink-skin of the
earlier numbers, and in an unlimited
edition at a reasonable price, these little
books are as attractive as their expen-
sive and exclusive predecessors and
deserve a popular sale. Both are graced
with Ronald G. Edwards’s sprightly
and appropriate illustrations, and both,
of course, deal with very popular old
Australian folksongs.
“Botany Bay Broadsides” brings
together three of the best-known songs
called “Botany Bay” together with an
interesting variant of the one which
begins “Farewell to old England for
ever,” and includes the tune of each.
Mr. Anderson adds notes as to sources
and histories—he considers that trans-
portation-ballads such as these (printed
often as broadsides), are wrongly
termed “folksongs,” but the Australian
“folk” have made these Botany Bay
ballads their own, as they appropriated
the British music-hall character “Billy
Barlow,” whose indifferent origins were
transmuted by a mysterious “gentleman
of Maitland” into the shining ore of one
of the best and most popular old bush-
songs we possess.
In “Songs of Billy Barlow” readers
can judge for themselves how far the
local Billy outstrips his ancestors in
raciness, interest and appeal. Not only
that—how superior is “Billy Barlow in
Australia” to “Billy Barlow in Sydney.”
The Sydney ballad ends with: —
Ladies and gents, 1 must bid you
goodnight.
For from Governor Gipps I’ve had
an invite
To meet him at supper, in a house
you well know:
His carriage is waiting for Billy
Barlow.
Oh dear! oh, raggedy oh ;
His carriage is waiting for Billy
Barlow . . .
while the other concludes: —
Then once more I got free, but in
poverty’s toil;
I’ve no cattle for salting, no sheep
for to boil;
I can’t get a job—though to any I’d
stoop.
If it was only the making of portable
soup.
Oh, dear, lackaday, oh,
Pray give some employment to Billy
Barlow.
In this book- Mr. Anderson collects
all the information which has lately
been gathered as to the. authorship of
this song. He does not include a recipe
for “portable soup”—which was not
merely a meaningless joke, as might be
imagined, but a most deadly-earnest
19th-century comestible—but that is
another story.
Nancy Keesing.
Pictures by the Way
It grows harder and harder to find
a reason why the public should read
another book of Australian amateur-
exploration; but in Overlanding with
Annabel (Angus and Robertson) Stuart
Gore does manage to liven-up the dusty
old paths, from Perth to Derby, the
shipping-route to Darwin, and. the
round trip back through the Territory
and South Australia to Adelaide and
over the Nullarbor Plain to Perth, with
a few novelties.
The idea of paying their way by
showing “See Australia First” films in
country where so many “See Australia”
films are made has something of
paradox about it; and to have gone in
a 1929 utility-truck that cracked a
cylinder-head a few miles out of Perth
gives the tour a certain amount of
suspense. Instead of getting a new
engine, or waiting to have the cylinder-
head welded, they poured on a chemical
welder out of a tin and set out for the
waterless desert-roads.
Their (Mr. Gore had his wife, Jan,
with him) dependence on their film-
shows for petrol and provisions gives
the reader a sympathy with them that
one does not feel for more professional
Australia-viewers with limousines, type-
writers and expense-sheets; and some
of the best things in the book are the
accounts of each town’s “picture-
garden,” and the generosity of picture-
garden proprietors in making-over their
seats and screens at no charge. Then
there was Edgar, the purser of the
Koolinda, which took them from
Derby to Broome. Hearing they were
down to their last 155., he insisted on
arranging and publicising a show of
their pictures in Wyndham, when the
boat stopped there; and although the
brilliant moon practically washed-out
the shadows on the open-air screen at
the meatworks, they made a few quid,
of which a Darwin wharfie tried to
deduct 355. because, according to
union-rules, their truck had to be
towed and not driven off the wharf.
Mr. Gore waited until the wharfie went
back to his shed for his book of rules
and then drove smartly off.
Thanks to a boost from the Tennant
Creek picture-garden proprietor, they
made £l6 from a Sunday-night silver-
coin show there; and at Alice Springs,
beginning with a flop—“ Tonight’s the
annual school-ball, and The Alice can’t
stand two shows in a night”—they were
granted the picture-garden, had the
Sunday-night boxing-tournament can-
celled in their honor and reaped
enough to pay their hotel-bills and
fares (including freight for “Annabel,”
the utility) on the ’Ghan express to
Quorn.
Indeed, it was not until they struck
civilisation that they found how hard
and cold life could be, with a police-
sergeant calling on them at a town out
of Adelaide to tell them they couldn’t
show their films without a licence; and
a cinema-man in Adelaide refusing use
of his halls in any town on the way
out of Adelaide.
At Hamelin Pool, up from Shark
Bay, on the Westralian coast, they saw
the post-office made of blocks of
coagulated sea-shells 2ft. by Ift.,
quarried from the beach and shaped
with a handsaw; they attended Roe-
bourne’s famous picnic-races and after-
wards offered to give a picture-show in
the bush to the blacks at 3s. a head.
Only one turned up:—
“Think all this feller losem money
at races, boss.” Then tentatively,
“Think more better make ’im two
bob , . . no more gottim free bob.”
“All right,” I conceded. “Go and
tell that feller two bob.”
Nonchalantly he rose to his feet,
walked leisurely to the edge of the
circle of light and announced calmly
to the silent darkness, “0.K., come
on in! No more free bob ... all
same two bob now!”
There are several chapters on the
leprosarium for blacks at Derby,
where the blacks have an orchestra
that plays “classics, jazz and folk-
music” and what must be something
of a musical discovery, a “minuet by
Chopin.” There they showed pictures
and made pictures, and saw a corro-
boree and a football-match.
And one especially remembers Mr.
Gore’s portrait of Brother Bob, the
blacksmith of Broome, who put new
springs on their truck, and his picture
of the Broome diver who went down
in a diving-suit in which a Malay had
died to allow the magistrate to deter-
mine whether the helmet had been
defective (it had); and the nostalgia
with which he turned off the road on
the way down from Darwin at the
sign “Five Miles an Hour—This is No
Bloody Speedway,” and spent an hour
or so wandering over his old war-time
camp, its rotting huts and crumbling
trenches, and lamenting that the
gardens with which the troops had
shown that things would grow in the
Territory had gone to wilderness, while
Darwin had reverted to vegetables
shipped up the coast by steamer.
Northern Territory
Northern Territory in Brief, com-
piled by John E. Bray, sketches by
A. J. Mahood, photographs by “Walk-
about,” Trish Studios and John E.
Bray, published by F. H. Johnston,
Ltd., Sydney, is obtainable from N.T.
Publication Syndicate, 592 Warburton-
street, Alice Springs. Anybody think-
ing of going to Alice Springs and the
N.T. by road, rail or air will find this
little guidebook invaluable.
It covers— briefly, but to the point —
everything the tourist wants to know,
from Accommodation to Water
(there are no Zebras), not forgetting
history, scenery, solar-heaters, camera-
exposures, souvenirs and where to find
a doctor or a dentist. One surprising
piece of information is that a permit
from the Director of Animal Industry,
Alice Springs, is needed before chickens
may be imported into the Territory—
tourists, therefore, might find it simpler
to leave the fowls at home.


TOgxjttMgow
B? - 'I
5£
HH
i
H
PI
ft. . •
: V
1
1111
■Uni
■ W
: ■
...... *-i
m
mf:
v < .JB •*&, <& *OmW»
3
*;:>&
m
m W
H x |r
m
m
m
I
. . -ft
I
a
,
m
■l.<
m
■ i
;
11
i i
%
m
■■■m
y
tiiii§
n sal 1 w: % %■■'%: 2$
esSSSSoSS ss«& \- \
®j|
. -
ft
■
v*:
&
' ',v J | V>
i
MU
Wm
ft *
in
"'-•ft;--
-■' - - ;
II
II 1
l
■'<■?■
■ ■■■■■
/
{PV: '
■
ft'; ;■■
j|'ft|ft l' ft;
: ft'
H
<s> -■«&' * &&& £& ■ •; v*Vwp«K
# *
•*•*l
.
:, <H*
'.ft'."'
s#%£&■s
f W
:::
mm
i ■
Mi
:ftft
ii
/ 1
...
«
./ft’
ft:'-
H Ell. *1
\C**f
aiH
■ ■
H' ;
■ft
SfX|4 T i ' "'
K&gg
||ggg
1 i ip
f 1 Jf
ft--ft ft-
nn
. ft :'
ft
t Ife&S I i
'Hi
l § ' ■ a
WSSgW ' W> si:
ft-ftt'-
' >^>
£-3
m
is
i i
I: i
l HI mm 3
' : -i-
-ft- ;
-
mm
-1 -i
1 sft”<' % ft -i
£
V '
sv ■
'ft M
ft
ii
ft
ft ft
ft..
■
ft,-'-:
;»*"-' • * . <flft
k mi I .
S 1
ft:--.
■
.
::: • .
E 1 *
IPI
f;,
mmMm
Anthony Horderns’ have quality and value in
ill M Rnp from 39/6
We have the largest range in Sydney
In our famous T ravel Goods Dept, we have the largest range of
rugs in Sydney, prices ranging from 39/6 to £l3/17/6, and all the
tartans, plaids and colour combinations you could wish for.
Centre —“Tourist,” fringed ends,
60 x 80. Brown, Green, Fawn and
Red checks. Priced at £5/1/9.
Left —“Atlantic,” heavy weight,
60 x 80 fringed, many checks and
tartans to choose from. £5/3/-.
Right —“ Albion,” pure merino,
fringed ends. 60in. x 72in. £7/19/6.
A—“ Monash,” 100% merino. In
double authentic tartans. 60in. x
84in. Priced at only £l3/17/6.
B— -SPECIAL: All wool, fringed
ends. Large size, 80in. x 60in.
Wonderfully priced at only 39/6.
C—“Artie/' all wool, fringed ends.
Check design, 60in. x 72in. 59/9.
mn
m
A quality Australian vacuum flask
all parts replaceable
fe!5!!&
H
Im
l
!««
I'll
•H
tirrmi
%
n
m
m
na
m
iff
f N . /
iTSv-i
If
Iff
f i«i
jUi
At last the flask that will really
last for years. All parts can be
replaced at a minimum of ease
as the flask is made in Australia.
2-pt. Metal with pourer. Colours
Blue, Green, Red. Price, 21/6.
1- Plastic casing. Colours
Blue and Red. Priced at 18/-.
2- Plastic, (as ing. Price 23/-.
FLOOR. PITT STREET. POST TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY, OR PHONE 80951. T.O.P.S.


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No, 3986
Wednesday, July 4, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O. ), Wellington.
THE BARONS' WAR
AUSTRALIA, in which many of its more
responsible citizens are worried stiff about tighter
markets and rising costs, appears to be in the grip
of a barons’ war.
The barons involved are union and “Labor”
political barons, and they have a much tougher
hide than most of the medieval ones and are more
permanent, since it isn’t possible in modern condi-
tions to apply the medieval remedies to them
which some of them sound as if they would like to
apply to their opponents —for example, what Cahill
would like to do to Evatt (or to both the Evatts).
The war has developed into a vast and tooth-
and-claw affair waged not with crossbows and
molten lead but with money—other people’s money.
The test of victory is how much more one baron
or set of barons can force the hated capitalists to
give the workers than another baron or set of
barons.
A baron in the “Labor” war is no Jack Cade.
He is almost as sleek and prosperous as the barons
of old. He always has a well-fed look. He has a
comfortable and sometimes modemistically
furnished office. He is received like a guest of
honor in Parliament Houses and wanders about
them like a lord, accommodated in the front rows
of the Speakers’ galleries for debates, dined and
wined and cigared in the dining-room. The more
humorous gods, as they looked down, must have
enjoyed an extra-gQod laugh as they observed the
portly figure of Comrade-baron Jim Healy, of the
Communist Central Committee, the prophet of
Russian methods and of the destruction of the
capitalistic system, enjoying the good things of life
at Canberra. He went there a few days ago to
oppose the new Stevedoring Bill. And they would
no doubt get an equally good laugh as they watched
the heart of the world-traveller baron, Albert Monk,
bleeding for the sufferings of the toiler.
The motive behind the barons’ war is the good
old capitalist-imperialist incentive —competition for
place and power, which “Labor’Meaders (especially
the affluent ones like Dr. Evatt and Mr. J. T. Lang)
profess to hate.
The place of a baron in the firmament of
“Labor” depends on his ability to squeeze the
national lemon. He is not concerned whether in
the process of squeezing all the juice and pips come
out and only the dry rind is left. There is nothing
like a depression to build-up the power of a
“Labor” union-baron.
The barons’ war consists in various big “Labor”
bosses proving to the masses of workers that (a)
they can get more for the rank-and-file than other
big bosses, and (b) that they can punish refusal to
bow to their rule with more ferocity and ruthlessness
than any other big boss.
As in the barons’ wars of old, there are, of
course, alliances between barons who hate each
other and who hope that by living on terms of
mateship with odd-bedfellow barons they will
presently be on the spot when the other barons are
taking a nap and be able to cut their throats. This
sort of benign intention- is probably behind the
alliance which cements the A.C.T.U. Communists
and anti-Communists all together—and which has
produced the United Front in union and Federal
politics.
The Federal “Labor” party, of course, has
leaders who have always run closely with the
Communists on policy. But the union United Front
which in Victoria, for instance, has just produced
the re-election of a Communist, J. J. Brown, to
the secretaryship of the Australian Railways Union,
is not based on conviction. It is based on an
alliance achieved to defeat the intention of the
Arbitration Act as amended by the Government to
keep the control of elections in the hands of the
rank-and-file with the help of the arbitration-
system. This legislation is a menace to the finagling
and chicanery which are the lifeblood of the
“Labor” baron-system, and all real barons, whether
Communist or anti-Communist, hate and fear it
and are determined to make it of no account.
The processes by which the barons’ war is
carried on are all too evident just now. If one
baron plays a card the rival one has to trump him.
The worker is happy to accept the assurance of his
union-leader that it is possible to go on squeezing
money and leisure out of industry until the cows
come home. He takes what the barons of the union
get for him and gives no thought to the morrow.
And if he doesn’t the particular “Labor” baron to
whom he owes fealty gets very terse with him and
he is told to conform —or else.
Moreover, this doctrine of the illimitability of
cash for wages and of the virtues of fewer hours
as a measure of national wellbeing has become so
closely accepted that when the rank-and-file notice
that some other baron has got more for his
dependent followers than their own warlord, they
are apt to react peevishly as a whole; though,
generally speaking, a successful baron is not a man
who waits for this to happen. The spirit of emula-
tion runs through his arteries, and his sense of self-
preservation is as prominent as a tree on the
Nullarbor plain. The moment some other baron gets
a little more for his men he rises up and tries to
get rather more for his.
Thus, after Comrade-baron Healy and
Comrade-baron Elliott V. Elliott and their attend-
ant unions had shown that by continual and cunning
stopwork operations, loaf and other less reputable
methods they were able to steadily push their
advantages, the A.W.U., that supposed repository
of moderation and Rightism, had to prove that it
could organise a bigger and better and longer and
more iniquitous and unprincipled strike than the
Communist unions. And seeing that the Com-
munists appeared to be capturing Federal “Labor”
last year, it had to step into the field and fight for
the control of the Federal “Labor” machine by the
same unscrupulous methods as Moscow’s advance-
guard.
So it and its allies subdued the shrinking
Gair, and they are taking a hand in the Federal
and N. S. Wales spheres and altogether behaving
as warlords can be expected to behave. And Baron
Albert Monk and A.C.T.U. associates left behind
have now joined" in with a war-whoop and are trying
to take the command-in-chief over the heads of
sectional barons by proclaiming a new jehad against
the capitalists with the help of the other barons
and arranging for a still bigger and better stopwork
so as to exhibit the power of the A.C.T.U. as some-
thing above that of the A.W.U. and the A.E.U. and
the W.W.F. and other constituents. Each of which
is posing as a Government superior to the legal
Government of the country, imbued with a divine
right to disobey the law and ignore the Consti-
tutional privileges of the majority of the people of
the Commonwealth whenever it suits them to make
a new campaigning move. Some hope that they
can make Baron Monk their instrument.
The unfortunate fact is that union-leadership
,can now live only by joining in the competition of
lawlessness and pressure-group squeeze of the
economy. And, of course, politicians like Premier-
barons Cahill and Gair can’t afford to be left out.
They owe no allegiance except to expediency.
And they care no more than the union robber-
barons whether they are sucking the country dry
and driving it into a perilous position through the
inflationary spiral.
Loan Council Comedy-Drama
THE annual serio-comedy of the Loan Council is
performed without an audience —which is probably
just as well, because if the public were admitted
the promoters would long ago have got the bird for
putting-on more revivals than J. C. Williamson’s.
From year to year, apart from slight changes in
the dramatis personas —the Prime Minister and
Premier Bolte are absent from this year’s cast, and
in Coronation-year all the principal parts were
played by understudies —and the interpolation of a
few topical gags, it’s the same old show.
There’s the prologue, with the State Premiers
meeting cosily together and planning how to do
the Old Man down for a few-score millions more
than he would agree to part-up last time. Windows
are left open so that sufficient of the dialogue can
be heard outside to allow the public to think the
players are in earnest. Meanwhile, in the Green
Room, the Old Man and his lieutenant are muttering
to each other that there’s hardly a shot in the locker
and that the beggars’ll have to be satisfied with
what they got last year and think themselves lucky
at that. By means of hidden microphones or tapped
wires, this also leaks to the press.
Then the play proper begins. Number One
Premier relates a doleful tale of unfinished works,
unbuilt schools and hospitals, railway-deficits,
mounting wage-bills and climbing costs. He con-
trasts the easily-gained wealth of the Old Man with
his own undeserved penury. With the air of one
who has frankly laid all his cards on the table, he
concludes by saying that nothing less than £lOO
million will save him from bankruptcy.
Gruff noises from the Old Man and his lieu-
tenant are interpreted to mean that he’s got
Buckley’s chance of getting anything like that
amount, but this doesn’t deter Premier Number Two
from crossing his heart and unfolding a tale of
distress every bit as dire as that of Number One. If
his final demand seems slightly more modest than
that of his colleague, that’s only because he repre-
sents a smaller State. After another rumble of
disapproval the other Premiers follow in quick
succession and without much variation. When all
have spoken one character tots-up the claims. They
come to (say) £4OO million.
The Old Man then moves upstage and says
that this has all been very interesting, but strangely
familiar. He suggests it’s time a breath of reality
was allowed in the scene. Breathes deeply a couple
of times and announces that the very most the
loan-market can be expected to yield is £l2O
million.
Cries of anguish and well-simulated surprise
from the Premiers, who momentarily forget that
they read that very figure in the morning papers,
and, in any case, were tipped-off about it by their
private advisers weeks ago. Jointly and severally,
solo and in chorus, they protest that such a remark
is an insult to the leaders of sovereign States and
that such a figure would mean an army of
unemployed, stagnation, ruin and all that. They
suggest that they’re not unreasonable men. They’ll
take £3OO million. It’ll mean a very difficult year,
but they’ll take it. The Old Man says no, they
won’t, but he’ll make a proposition. He’ll supple-
ment public-loan proceeds by £BO million. That’ll i
give them £2OO million. Take it or leave it! What
about lunch?
There’s an interlude in dining-room or bar and
the whole cast troops back on stage. Premier
Number One speaks for the rest. The Old Man’s
hard, he says, but they realise he’s got the wood
on them. It’s daylight-robbery, but they’ll settle
for £240 million. Not a penny less! That’s their
final word. The Old Man sticks to his guns. Two-
hundred million is his final word.
There’s much muttering and protesting, and
the curtain falls with the muttering still in progress.
When it rises again it reveals the same characters,
but in different costumes. They’re now playing
the second piece of their repertoire, The Premiers’
Conference, or The Tax-reimbursement Masque. In
plot and dialogue it is scarcely distinguishable from
the first play, except that there’s not quite so much
unanimity among the Premiers. The Old Man puts
the screws on just the same and the denouement is
identical in both plays.
The comedy of these performances would be
better appreciated by outsiders. To Australians
the plays are serious in their effect, as the principals
are the men responsible for the government of
Australia. The experience of the last few years
should have taught other people as well as the State
Premiers a few of the economic facts of life, particu-
larly in regard to loan-raising. There has always
been a tendency among the Premiers to act as
though they think that in order to obtain the amount
of loan-money their programme of works demands
the only obligation upon them is to prove that they
need it. On this premise they fight valiantly with
every word and phrase they can command—-to
establish their necessity. That achieved, they imply,
their responsibility ends. This, of course, is entirely
wrong.
Although the job of raising the loans is one
for the Commonwealth authorities, the responsi-
bility of deciding how much money can be raised
rests with the Loan Council, on which the Premiers
have a preponderance of votes. It is just as much
their duty to determine as accurately as possible
how much loan-money the market can be expected
to provide as it is to decide how much they need.
In the final analysis, except insofar as Federal
revenue can make good the deficiency, the needs
have to be equated to the supply.
Any citizen knows from his own dealings that
it is one thing to need a loan —even to deserve a
loan —but quite another thing to raise one. Indeed,
it is almost a corollary of this that loans are hardest
to raise when they are most needed, as anyone who
has ever tried to borrow ten-bob from an office
colleague the day before payday can testify.
Directly or indirectly, one man’s loan must come
out of another man’s savings, and although there
is a tendency to believe that Governments can make
rules to exempt themselves from this law they can t
make ’em work for long.
Last week’s Loan Council _ presentation
followed the traditional pattern, with minor emenda-
tions to the script. N.S.W. Cahill, appearing for his
fifth or sixth season in the role of Number On
Premier, departed from the teaching of the LaDor
School of Dramatic Art in which he was trained,
and suggested raising housing-loans overseas
well in previously untapped sources in Austrau .
Federal Treasurer Fadden, making a return appe
ance as the Old Man, wasn’t impressed, lies
believer in getting loan-money where you ana w
and he didn’t expect to find any m the spots
indicated by Cahill. Most of the players spoke their
lines with more acerbity than usual, causing
Old Man to ad-lib. that the sooner the States got
their taxing-powers back the better he dbe pleas _
Target first set by the Premiers was tin.
million. Their last word was £2lO mdton. Th
Old Man’s last word was £l9O million, °f whi
expected the Commonwealth would have to n
£6O million out of revenue. The curtain fell with
the voices of the whole company ringing
other’s ears.


FEELING PROPER POORLY
“We’re not inevitably immortal, you know, and the sooner we shake a leg and get cracking together the better it’ll be for all of us.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Federal and State Awards
One outcome of the Premiers’ Confer-
ence which should give satisfaction is the
agreement to arrange a meeting of
Federal and State Ministers (as soon as
the Prime Minister returns from the Com-
monwealth Prime Ministers’ Conference)
to discuss the conflict of Federal and State
wage-fixing systems. This conflict has
been weighing heavily on the Australian
industrial scene in the past year or so
owing to the disparity in wage-rates
brought about by the action of the
majority of State wage-fixing author-
ities in continuing quarterly adjust-
ments in the basic wage although
the Federal Arbitration Court dis-
continued their application to
Federal awards two-and-half-years ago.
The effect of this is that often the weekly
rate of men doing similar work, but under
different awards, may differ by as much
as £l.
An example of the anomalies brought
about in this way was seen last week,
when the N. S. Wales shearers’ strike was
settled by agreement, with the graziers
accepting an interim award which gave
the shearers a rate higher than that which
they had been on strike about for six
months. The reason for this apparent
surrender was that a fortnight earlier a
High Court decision had ruled that Con-
ciliation Commissioner Donovan’s pre-
vious interim award (against which the
shearers were on strike) did not cover
non-unionists, as he had no jurisdiction
over them. This meant that non-unionists
would come under the State award and
thus be entitled to a rate of £7 9s. 6d. a
thousand sheep, compared with the
£7 Is. 3d. of the Donovan award and the
£7 Bs. 9d. claimed by the A.W.U. The
State award was higher only because of
successive cost-of-living adjustments.
The president of the Graziers' Federal
Council, explaining the graziers’ decision
to come to an agreement on the basis of
the State award, said that
Since there are no practical or legal
means of distinguishing between unionists
and non-unionists, the task of disproving a
claim by a worker that he is a non-unionist
is impossible Owing to a conflict
between State and Federal law, a State
award which regulates the shearing of less
than a quarter-million sheep can make it
impossible to support a Federal award, of
which it was originally a copy.
The proposed conference won’t neces-
sarily end anomalies of this sort, but it
is at least something that the Premiers
have unanimously agreed to talk things
over.
Auchinleck
“Ek Dum” on a distinguished visitor:
Field-Marshal Sir Claude Auchinleck, who
has been visiting Australia, is the last of a long
line of illustrious Indian Army commanders-
in-chief. The Western Allies had good cause
to appreciate him on more than one crucial
occasion during World War 11. Bom in 1884,
son of a colonel of the Royal Artillery, he was
educated at England’s great military public-
school, Wellington, joined the 62nd Punjabis,
served in the First World War in Egypt and
Mesopotamia (D. 5.0., 0.8. E., Groix de Guerre)
and then served a term at the Imperial Defence
College.
He commanded the First Punjabis for a couple
of years —he is their colonel today. From
that command he joined the Quetta Staff
College, through' which so many Australian
officers have passed with advantage, stayed there
three years, took over the adventurous
Peshawar Brigade, carried through with success
the two Mohmand campaigns of 1933 and 1935
(C. 8.), and became Deputy Chief of the Indian
General Staff in 1936: thus he had a great
part in preparing the defence of India against
the expected war, as a member of the Expert
Committee. In 1941, after a brief period as
G.0.C.-in-C. Southern Command, he was
appointed Commander-in-Chief in India, and
soon after in the Middle East.
No man was ever set a more difficult task
than the consolidation of the scattered, ill-
supplied and retiring defences of that vast
area, and no general ever went about a seem-
ingly impossible job with more calmness
and determination —or with greater ultimate
success. The stopping and discomfiture of
Rommel with troops largely wom-out after a
long withdrawal was an operation which called
for toughness of outlook. General Auchinleck
took personal operative control of what evolved
into one of the greatest battles of the Middle
Eastern war.
Rommel himself paid a remarkable tribute to
the skill and courage of his opponent. As was
here written at the time, “it was a great piece of
prompt organisation, which history will remem-
ber with gratitude, if the peahen reporters forget
it.” When General Auchinleck was withdrawn
after he had stopped Rommel in his tracks in
a battle as important to the development of the
war as the more-advertised Second Alamein, it
was also here written that “he would not be
wasted. Changes in command are inevitable,
and the dry-season in India will bring the
chances of a major campaign.”
It was, in fact, in this familiar arena that
Field-Marshal Auchinleck was faced (to quote
his admirer, Field-Marshal Siim) with a situa-
tion in which “something vigorous would have
to be done to avoid disaster.” He proved him-
self “the man to do it” and to make “a con-
siderable and prompt injection of gmger into the
Indian administrative machine.” He managed
with, skill and tact the situation arising out of
the appointment of a Supreme Command above
the planning-level for which he and his officers
were responsible, and he came out of the great
operation which led to the saving of India and
the reconquest of Burma well deserving the
tribute of Field-Marshal Smuts, who described
him as “one of the ablest commanders I ever
met.”
Field-Marshal Auchinleck left the active
Army in 1947 as Supreme Commander for
India and Pakistan under the Joint Defence
Committee. He then retired to a busy private
life devoted to the service of Grindlay’s ancient
bank, of which he is a director, and to the
service of boys’ movements in Great Britain.
At 72—he had his birthday in Australia a few
days ago—he is no advertisement for the
dreadful Indian climate; lean, in fine physical
condition, not a hair visibly grey or missing.
Annuities for Victims
“Symonym”: Victorian State Full Court
has come up with an original thought
for settling some of the cases of
damages, in which juries’ occasionally
overgenerous awards have been causing
additional litigation, especially in N.S.W.
and Victoria.
The court, hearing an appeal (rejected
by the Bench) by the employers against
a jury verdict for £20,000 for a man who
was so severely permanently injured by a
lathe that he can now work only part-
time and has lost his normal way of
living, suggested an amendment to the law
to provide for life-annuities in certain
cases instead of cash.
Sir Edmund Herring, C.J., Martin and
Barry, Js., pointed to the probability of
awards like £20,000 going to relatives
who might not deserve them; and it is
undoubtedly true that many extravagant
cash-awards by juries in recent years have
been inherited soon, occasionally by very
distant relatives indeed. In some cases
juries have taken little cognisance of age,
and persons with a short life-expectancy
have died within a year or two, leaving
comparatively big estates.
Annuities would be unsatisfactory
compensation for men with family-depen-
dants, of course, and any amendment of
the law would need safeguards for the
dependants of the family-man victim.
In the Victorian case, the court marked
the possibility of the young man’s parents
dying before him and his inability in that
event to control such a sum, since the
medical evidence had disclosed a state of
euphoria and unawareness of his plight.
Moreover, he isn’t yet of age. It is
possible that an annuity in such a case,
where a youth may live to 90, would
prove more costly to the underwriters.
There are, however, reports, in under-
writers’ offices both in Sydney and Mel-
bourne of large lump-sums, awarded for
the sustenance and comfort of victims
for life, disappearing very rapidly into
unworthy pockets, or vanishing simply
because of financial inexperience, leaving
the victims destitute.
Cahill's Housing-plan
& ~ ' '
Unlike most of Premier Cahill’s pro-
posals the plan he presented to the Loan
Council as a solution of the housing
problem had only one thing wrong with
it —it wasn’t practicable. It entailed
special housing-loans of £45 million a
year for the next five years. Of this
annual sum £25 million was to be raised
in Australia by a “national housing-loan,”
free of income-tax. The other £2O mil-
lion was to be obtained as “migration
and development loans” in the countries
from which Australia’s main streams of
migrants are coming.
Of the local loan Cahill says that the
tax-free idea would make the loan more
attractive to investors and would also
enable it to be issued at a much lower
interest-rate than the present bond-rate.
He further claimed that it would bring in
funds not usually attracted into Common-
wealth loans.
In the present state of the loan-
market this sounds like wishful-thinking.
If the interest offered were more than a
shade lower than for ordinary loans, the
benefit of the tax-free provision would be
cancelled-out. As to attracting “new”
money, there are no grounds at all for
assuming this would happen. A tax-free
loan would fill all right, but the subscrip-
tions would be almost entirely at the
expense of the main loan-programme.
The overseas part of the plan is most
interesting for the reason that it runs
counter to Federal “Labor” policy, which
is opposed to overseas-loans ; Evatt and
Co. have been bitterly critical of the
loans Fadden has raised in America,
Switzerland and Canada. Cahill is not
proposing those countries as a source of
housing loans. He suggests trying the
countries from which our migrants come.
Britain, of course, is the chief of these,
and the Old Country doesn’t seem to have
much lending-money these days. Next on
the list is Italy. If Cahill expects to raise
a loan in Rome he's rather optimistic.
It’s an unfortunate fact that today Mark
Antony’s countrymen have little to lend
but their ears. Greece, our next big
source of New Australians, is also a write-
off as far as money-lending is concerned ;
Holland is a bare possibility, but its con-
tribution, if any, would be small.
As the Loan Council didn’t accept the
Cahill proposal it will never be put to the
test, which is probably just as well for
Cahill’s reputation as a financial expert.
As it is, he’ll be able to maintain that he
discovered the ideal solution to the
housing-problem but that no one would
listen to him. In that he can take
comfort from the reflection that many
other financial wizards are in the same
boat.
C.P. "Shot-in-the-Arm"
“In the ACT”: Reports of the impending
demise of the Country party have always
proved as premature as those of Mark
Twain’s death, but some observers in
Canberra feel that the party’s political
prestige in the Federal sphere must suffer
as a result of Sir Earle Page’s retirement
from Ministerial work, H. L. Anthony’s
illness, the rumored possible defection of
McEwen to the Liberals, and Fadden’s
symptoms of increasing strain.
Some of these pundits may have
to eat their words. The Federal council
of the party has produced rather meaty
stuff on policy, and Dr. Page handed the
party generally a tonic which may help
it to survive and prosper. He gave the
other two parties an example of political
nous which they could both heed with
advantage.
Page, during his career, has been an out-
standing politician, in the best sense of
that dubious word. He has developed a
type of double-talk to screen his activities
and ideas at times, but when necessary
can cut keenly and swiftly through
jargon and red - tape. He has
been largely responsible in the past
for the party’s grasp on portfolios out of
proportion to its numbers in the Parlia-
ment, and he has now given it a lead on
subjects of major public importance.
On new States, of course, its policy and
course were already charted, but on com-
pulsory arbitration and on Socialisation
Page has been both explicit and practical.
His railways policy has obvious merits,
and in any case could not lead to anything
as bad as the present situation. He has
stressed, with picturesque illustration
from his own life, the importance of
sound finance and banking; he has
worked for as well as advocated the rais-
ing of educational standards and oppor-
tunities, especially in the country; and
he was largely responsible for the early
provision of good medical services for
rural districts.
An accelerated development for the
rest of this century is Australia’s major
hope of preserving its territorial integrity
and its living-standards. The Country
party is showing some recognition of this
fact.
"Baby Boom" in Asia
“Stromlo”: it seems pretty
hard to make anyone’s a blood run cold
by talking about the possible effects on
future generations of radioactivity or
of the demands of a world-population
twice the size of the present one.
The old motto of “Let posterity look
after itself” has undeniable appeal
to people sufficiently harassed by
what is happening today. Yet in Australia
we are confronted by Asian population-
trends which don’t allow us to postpone
thinking about them, and which will
reach near-explosive stages within the
lifetime of most of those who read this.
What we will manage to do to save
ourselves by our own exertions is crucial
to us and to our children. In the mean-
time we should know what is now happen-
ing, as well as what is likely to happen in
the next ten and the next 20 years on the
world’s population-front.
The Asians themselves are not unmind-
ful of their own problems. They are well
aware that the old checks and balances
are disappearing, with the changing faces
of disease and famine and war and educa-
tion and living-standards. India has
already faced the problem which is only
one phase of the overall and almost over-
whelming dilemma —of family-limitation.
Much more has to be done, in China, in
India and to a lesser extent in Japan
and Indonesia, as well as in the smaller
Asian nations, before there will be any
prospect of an acceptable balance or
population and resources being found.
Today, Asia has a fifth of the land-
surface of the world, but its estimated
population of 1200 million is more than
half the world’s people. In 44 years, it
is believed, the world-population will be
at least 3360 million, of whom 2000
million will be in Asia.
Industrialisation in China and India,
together with improved sanitation, the
provision of foodstuffs from elsewhere
in times of famine, and an absence, it is
hoped, of wars capable of killing tens
or hundreds of millions, will mean
expanding birth-rates and falling death-
rates on a scale hardly yet realised. A
Japanese professor, Yoich Itagaki, in the
“Far Eastern Economic Review,” has
talked about the “devastating torrent of
children,” and is not overhopeful of the
problems being solved. He thinks that
diversification of economies, plus family-
planning, will help, and points out that
a demographic solution would depend
almost wholly on birth-control. He
prefers the “economic solution,” the
enlargement of the population-sustaining
capacity by rapid economic development
through agricultural improvement and
industrialisation. On the laLtter point he
acknowledges, necessarily, that there is
a limitation on outside aid for capital
and technique, as well as the inherent
limitations in raw materials, local capital,
skilled labor, technical knowledge,
managerial ability—and markets.
Where does Australia come in this
world picture? We must have white
population to hold and develop our terri-
tory, we must have export-markets for
primary and secondary products to
maintain our living-standards, and we
must never again fall into the lethargy
which has made us believe in the past
that good times will continue for ever
without effort on our part. There’s a
chilly wind blowing from the direction
of Asia.
Repudiation
“Mugga Way” : Several ethica.l and legal
questions of the highest political impor-
tance have been posed, and not answered,
by the declaration of Dr. Evatt that the
proposed agreement by the Common-
wealth Government with the private
shipping-companies for the rationalisa-
tion of Australian coastal services was
“an improper means of fraudulently
cheating the people of Australia out of
their assets,” and that “Labor” would
not tolerate the agreement, and wouldn’t
be bound to accept its terms if a “Labor' 1
Government were elected during its 20-
year currency.
It was believed in Canberra at the
time that no precedent existed for
such action, and that, while any . Parlia-
ment could undo, in the normal course,
what any previous Parliament had done,
the acknowledgment that an agreement
made under the authority of Parliament
could be breached would lead to chaos.
The possibility of a change in the political
color of a Government would then make
it necessary for agreements to be limited
to the life of a Parliament, or less, with
consequent instability and disruption of
business.
Fortunately, the Australian people
have repudiated Evatt, and seem likely to
continue to do so.
The Two Moscows
The difficulties of peaceful settlement of
world affairs is illustrated by fresh revela-
tions of the Soviet attitude to Middle
Europe at a time when Marshal Tito
has apparently assumed the role of
Kremlin advance-agent and .issued his
statement that his late opponents have
“torn-down the Iron Curtain” (which has
not even been lifted an inch).
Within the past few weeks Moscow has
been doing its best to persuade the West
of the truth of Tito’s premature assertion.
Propaganda has suggested that the serried
ranks of electrified barbed-wire which
guard the frontiers of the satellite prison-
countries of Eastern Europe have been
torn down ; but, if they have been, ingress
and egress are no easier than they were.
There also has been a flood o*
propagandist rejoicing that Russia is
reducing its forces along the borders or
the West as an evidence of its peaceful
intentions and brotherly love for the
peoples of the capitalist world. Particu-
larly well advertised has been the reduc-
tion of the Red Army forces in East
Germany by 33,500, but nothing has been
said about the force left behind.
This is estimated by military authorities
at about 420,000. The Red Army has
more than 30 divisions in East Germany,
a third of them armored and a third of
the remaining infantry mechanised, an
(i Continued on next page)


the whole force, ground and air, equipped
not for defence, but for long-term
aggressive attack. It is the same sort of
force, indeed, that Hitler used in 1940 to
strike to the Channel ports and Paris,
tearing through everything in a few days.
It has recently been fitted out on a
large scale with the newest automatic
weapons and self-propelled guns, and the
strength of its divisions has been increased
by about 2000 to 4000 over the old level,
which was usually below 10,000.
On June 21 Tass, the official Russian
newsagency, denied the authenticity of a
West German Government statement
which had reported Khrushchev as telling
Mollet and Pineau, during the official
French visit to Moscow, that he preferred
17-million East Germans in the Soviet
bloc rather than 70-million in a reunited
Germany. The Moscow Government
waited three weeks to deny this state-
ment, which was amplified in Washington
by Pineau himself.
Pineau’s first-hand version of what
Khrushchev said was that he preferred
20-million Germans on his side to 70-
million in a reunited Germany directed
against the Soviet Union. He was quoted
as saying that “even if a reunited Ger-
many were to remain neutral” this would
still be not enough. He also wanted
to “maintain the social and economic
achievements of East Germany. To have
East Germany on our side is also a matter
of prestige.”
This, combined with the maintenance
of the huge striking-force in East Ger-
many, shows clearly how specious the
whole Russian policy is on German
reunification. Moscow is afraid to see
Germany reunified. It knows that three-
million people have escaped from East
Germany at the risk of their lives into the
West in the past ten years, and it is well
aware that the moment the East Germans
are free again they will turn westward as
a whole. It hopes that by retaining the
sawn-off bit of the Reich for a few years
longer it will have become so indoctrin-
ated with Communism that its new
majorities will be naturally Communist.
As Dr. Adenauer pointed out last week,
the new German attitude is a contradic-
tion of the directives on Germany signed
by the heads of the Four-Power Confer-
ence at Geneva (which included Bulganin)
last year, and the undertakings given to
Dr. Adenauer himself in Moscow. There
are, as ever, two Moscows ; the Moscow
of the peace propaganda, jovial, promis-
ing, offering everybody flowers and a
drink. And in the background remains
the old Moscow: sinister, fraudulent,
keeping no agreements whether in writing
or not, armed to the teeth, waiting its
opportunity to establish peace “according
to the doctrines of Leninism-Marxism,
which means by Communist worm-
conquest. This is the Moscow which in
Poland is at the moment suppressing a
strike with tanks.
POLITICAL POINTS
Fares on Sydney trains, trams and
buses went up (and how!) on Sunday.
It’s being said now that the easiest way to
amass a fortune is to walk to and from
work.
• •
Most people will find it hard to under-
stand why Burma has sent one of its
top-ranking railway executives to study
the efficiency and economy methods of the
N.S.W. railways. Possibly the idea is to
study the methods and apply them in
reverse.
• •
They’ve changed the name of the
Stalin car-factory in Moscow, calling it
instead Likhachev, after the recently dead
Minister for Transport. Next thing
we’ll be hearing that the Red Dean has
handed back his Stalin Prize.
• •
Sir Frank Richardson told a confer-
ence of Victorian retailers that Aus-
tralia was “walking into the greatest man-
made depression” it had known and that
by November it could be enveloped in a
“dark cloud of unemployment.” What,
so soon after the Richardson committee
recommended increased salaries for
Federal politicians!
• •
There was an echo of the Browne-
Fitzpatrick case in the Reps last week
when Morgan, M.H.R., asked the Acting
P.M. whether the Government had con-
sidered revising the procedure for dealing
with breaches of Parliamentary privilege.
Fadden replied that the P.M. had given
some consideration to the question, but
that he personally was unaware how far
the matter had gone. It was Morgan who
stirred-up the Bankstown antheap.
• 9
Toowoomba (Q.) Council ordered a
ratepayer to clear the grass and weeds
from his i-acre block, and it was agreed
that the council would do the work, and
charge the cost to the ratepayer. When
the bill arrived the ratepayer thought it
excessive and refused to pay. In
subsequent court-proceedings an 80-
year-old witness for the defence declared
that he could have cleaned-up the allot-
ment in 12 hours; another, aged 79, said
he could have scythed the grass in 20
hours. The magistrate ruled that the
council’s claim was exorbitant, declaring
that the £l2 paid into the court by the
defendant was more than reasonable pay-
ment. He ordered the council to pay
£24 16s. 3d. costs.
It came out. that the council had
detailed a gang of seven men with five
power-mowers to do the job, and they had
taken nine hours to clear up the grass on
the quarter-acre block. The amount
claimed was £3O 13s. 4d.
• •
New Zealand has cut its migrant-target
by a third —from 15,000 to 10,000.
There’ll be no change in the quota for
single migrants, but married applicants
for assistance must be building-tradesmen,
farm-workers or seamen ; they must be
under 45 and will not be accepted if they
have more than two children. The
restriction has been applied because of
“the economic state of the country, the
housing and work available and educa-
tion and health facilities.” Logical, of
course, but it does look rather like picking
the eyes out of the offering.
• •
“Peoples’ republics” don’t like old-
fashioned titles. Too reminiscent of the
effete past! That’s why the Dalai Lama
of Tibet, now under the aegis of Com-
munist China, is no longer called the
Dalai Lama. Instead he’s styled simply
Vice-chairman of the Standing Com-
mittee of the National People’s Congress
and Chairman of the Preparatory Com-
mittee for the Autonomous Region of
Tibet of the People’s Republic of China.
• 9
Britain is providing £3B million for a
five-year development plan for Cyprus,
including 100 scholarships for Cypriots
to study in Britain and Turkey. Obvi-
ously it is believed that the present period
of terrorism will decrease, just as the
Mau Mau threat in Kenya is lessening.
The Mau Mau strength has been reduced
by more than one-half in seven months,
and British troops are being gradually
withdrawn. It is claimed officially in
Britain that the time is not far distant
when the task of rounding-up the remain-
ing fugitives will be left largely in police
hands.
• •
Population-gain from migration during
the March quarter was 28,785, the largest
since 1951. British nationals topped the
list of arrivals with 15,932, but permanent
departures reduced this figure to 7119.
Italian arrivals numbered 10,048 ; Greek,
3792; Dutch, 3689; German, 2024.
Permanent arrivals for the nine months
to March 31 totalled 100,265; the target
for the full year is 125,000.
• •
S.A. Housing Trust is now building
homes for owners on their own blocks.
So far the scheme is on a modest scale,
THE NEW SWAGGIES
but the chairman of the Trust, J. P. Cart-
ledge, says materials are available to build
as many homes as there are applicants
with the necessary finance.
• o
Air Minister Townley, opening
T.A.A.’s new passenger-terminal at Mas-
cot, said that in the past 4\ years Aus-
tralian airlines had carried 8-million
passengers without a fatality. Australia
now had 500 airports, 1600 miles of sealed
runways and telecommunications and
radio-navigational aids to serve the whole
continent. That term “airport” must
cover a multitude of landing-fields.
•
Sydney’s wettest half-year since 1890
has just ended. The atomic-bomb tests,
of course! But what took the blame in
1890?
• •
Australia’s wool-cheque for the year
will be down a little on last year’s figure.
For the 11 months to the end of May
shipments were valued at £3OB million
compared with £320.5 million for the
same period in 1954-55. June figures
should show a further drop owing to
the shearers’ strike.
• •
Malaya’s Chief Minister, Tengku Abdel
Rahman, in a message to Home Guards in
villages throughout the country, said that
his Government would “achieve peace by
fighting the remainder of the terrorists
until they submit.” How does this tally
with the conception held by many Aus-
tralian “Labor” politicians that the
terrorists are patriots fighting for the
independence of their country?
• •
Nasser scored a 98 per cent, vote at
the Egyptian elections, a performance
that will no doubt afford him much
pleasure—until he recalls that only a
few years ago Stalin could boast similar
results. Hitler, too.
Having sacked the N. S. Wales
Executive the first subsequent act of the
“caretaker” junta has been to dismiss
assistant-secretary J. T. Kane. The
Federal Executive failed at its hearings to
sheet home any charges against Kane, but
under the new Moscow technique which
applies in the “Labor” party all that is
needed is to stick a label on the victim
“Australia First,” the “Movement,”
“Groupers,” “Santamaria”—and associate
the label with something unpleasant.
McCarthyism and Evattism are becoming
identical.
• •
Queensland Transport Minister
Duggan has told Brisbaneites they’ll have
their first electric trains within five years.
Let’s hope he’s a better prophet than the
N.S.W. Transport Minister who in 1947
promised the Eastern Suburbs railway
within three years.
• •
N.S.W. Egg Board is talking of market-
ing shell-less eggs in transparent plastic
containers which will enable the buyer to
see just what goes on while the egg is
being boiled. What is really needed is a
transparent container for the Egg Board
so that producers and consumers can
both see what goes on while the egg is
being marketed.
• 0
“Balloteer”: Secrecy of the Queens-
land ballot (B. 20/6/’56)? Surely “Ben-
bow,” as a defeated candidate, knows
that the elector’s roll-number is not
written on the corner of the ballot-
paper? Section 60 (1) of the Elections
Act requires that a presiding-officer shall
write the ballot-paper number against the
elector s name on the roll before folding
and sealing the comer of the ballot-paper.
All ballot-papers are numbered by the
Government Printer, and to add figures
to those already there would be futile.
Of course, with the connivance of co-
operative scrutineers during the count, a
presiding-officer could raise the sealed
comer of the ballot-paper and then
check through some hundreds of names
to ascertain how the vote was cast. He
would have to reseal any paper thus
tampered with, as a suspicious returning-
officer might ask awkward questions.
Later, a returning-officer, checking par-
cels of votes from all booths, might be
interested to satisfy his idle curiosity
in discovering how certain electors voted.
All he would have to do is to break
the sealed comers of ten to fourteen
thousand ballot-papers while the scruti-
neers for both candidates looked on. The
ballot-paper numbers could then be
checked with the rolls, thus revealing
how every elector voted. This some-
v/hat corrupt performance might take
a month or so to carry out —and I
wouldn’t care for the job. Violation of
the secrecy of the ballot is a bogey
raised only by the ill-informed. Let
“Benbow,” if he can, give a single
specific instance of it.
0 0
The new Commonwealth Railways
standard-gauge line from Port Augusta
to Leigh Creek will go into full operation
on July 8. The changeover from the old
narrow-gauge line through Quorn and
Hawker will both speed-up the running-
time and increase the capacity-loading of
the trains. The service will be capable of
delivering 12,000 tons of coal a week to
Adelaide and a similar quantity to Port
Augusta. Diesel-locomotives will do the
hauling.
• •
What the Russians can’t get by foul
means they’re determined to get by fair.
• •
There’s a strike on in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, with steelworkers demand-
ing higher wages. The unions expect it
to last six weeks. Another strike, in
Poznan, Poland, lasted only a few hours.
It was broken by tanks, planes and
machine-guns, with a large deathroll and
hundreds of arrests. America, of course,
is a capitalist-imperialist country ; Poland
is a “People’s Republic.”
• •
“Actin’’: In the Australian War
Memorial in Canberra there is a 6th-
century Corinthian urn, presented by the
Greek Government to Australia in 1946.
The note beside it mentions that it is filled
with earth from the graves of Australian
soldiers in Athens, and that never pre-
viously had Greece made a symbolical
gift of her soil to another country. The
Memorial also has a replica of the bronze
of an Australian infantryman, in the type
of uniform worn during the Greek
campaign of 1941, which was presented in
return to the Greek Government.
Wonder how the original is faring in view
of the current Greek hysteria over
Cyprus!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
OUR Postal Department intends to
cash-in on the Olympic Games. Be-
sides the four commemorative stamps to
be issued, no fewer than 52 different
pictorial postmarks, depicting various
Olympic sports, will be allocated among
the 18 or so special Games post-offices.
The conscientious collector will, of
course, desire specimens of each postmark
on each stamp —52 x 4 = 208. In addi-
tion the Postal Department offers a range
of dates: (a) first day of use of post-
mark, (fi) first day of the Games, (c) last
day of the Games, ( d) last day of use of
the postmark, ( e ) any date. Though some
postmarks in categories (a) and (b), (c)
and ( d) will be identical, the enthusiast
can probably still double his 208
varieties. The Philatelic Bureau at Mel-
bourne G.P.O. will handle orders for
these postmarks on similar terms to its
normal “First Day Coyer” service. To
facilitate ordering, serial-numbers have
been allotted to the postmarks and serial
letters to the dates. Very businesslike!
“Hist.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦l*
“Looby”: Fares-rise still under fire!
Woman in queue held forth at some
length, ending with: “What are the
authorities thinking of? Haven't they got
any brains?” “No, missus,” said a sad-
looking cove at the end. “They’ve just
got cars.”
“D.”: The Swedish State church,
of all likely and unlikely buyers, has
bought Toorak House, the 107-year-
old pile which was once Victorian
Government House, from Allan
(Moran and Cato) Spowers, whose
family have held it for 56 years. It
is in two acres of garden in St.
George’s-road, at least one of the
most expensive residential sites in the
nation, although there are only 700
Scandinavians normally resident in
Melbourne. Some European com-
munities in Melbourne have been
trying for years to raise the wind to
buy even a modest villa for a centre.
“Becks”: It’s a long time since “Doc.”
Earle Page was in regular practice in the
Grafton '(N.S.W.) district, but at a com-
plimentary dinner to him in Sydney
recently his colleague Artie Fadden tried
to tie this one on him [for Bowdlerised
version see “S. M. Herald,” 27/6/’s6].
Page had been summoned to a
cow - cocky’s holding to attend a
maidservant who had been unaccoun-
tably taken ill. He gave her a
thorough examination, could find noth-
ing wrong with her, and decided she was
malingering. What’s more, he told her
so, and she admitted it. “But,” said the
girl, “they haven’t paid-, me for three
months, and I’m staying in bed till they
do.” “Move over,” said the Doc. “They
haven’t paid me for three years.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“T.M.”: Bubbling with expectancy,
I made an appointment with a patent-
attorney, confident that within a few
weeks my invention for turning fried-
eggs would net a fortune. “Oh, no,”
the attorney told me. “It may take any-
thing up to three years.” Then followed
references to acceptance-fees, advertise-
ment-fees, sealing-feqs and application-
fees. Amendment-fees; fees necessary
“Geoffrey, if there ARE girls on the moon, remember you have
a wife and child."
to have my brain-child patented over-
seas ; and, last but not least, the
attorney’s fees. I decided it would be
cheaper to keep on breaking the eggs.
♦>
“V.P.”: Friend was exclaiming in
horror over a newspaper account of an
11-year-old who shot his entire family
for some trifling reason. “You never
know what some kids’ll do next! ” was her
summing-up.
♦l* * *
“Mullum”: Round about September
each year my barber greets my fortnightly
visit with, “Summer cut, eh?” and pro-
ceeds to shear me shorter than he has for
“Can I interest you in a bedside-lamp, madam?”
some months. Early in May he will
suggest a “winter cut” and just give my
hair a trim. He shocked me the other
wet and windy day by suggesting: “Come
back next week ; it’s too cold to have any
hair off today.”
“S.M.S.”: A performance at a Sydney
dramatic school, and one of the members
of the cast a Scotch-terrier. On stage
was an artificial tree, and Scotty sniffed
at it inquisitively, while the audience
waited in anticipation. Having thus got
them in, he turned, trotted as near to the
edge of the stage as his lead would
allow, and wagged his tail heartily at
them. A nice bit of acting; anyway, he
stole the show.
♦+♦ *l* *2*
“Pat-Eff”: A young acquaintance of
mine calls his girl-friend “Spud,” because,
he says, she has such an expensive taste.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Geep”: The visiting clergyman who
left his car in a Perth Government
parking-area reserved for “Ministers’
cars only” (B. 13/6 / ’56) jolted the
Traffic Branch into action. To avoid
similar mistakes in the future, the notice
now reads: “This area is reserved for
Ministers’ (of the Crown) cars only.”
Thus leaving Ministers of the Crown of
Thorns with their thorns.
“T.M.”: Who believes in ghosts? 1
do. But how they can expect any self-
respecting ghost to appear in the presence
of two-thousand sneering, rowdy mortals,
a medley of car-horns, a thousand flash-
ing headlamps, and to the noise of
exploding fireworks, beats me. Next
time Sydney radio-announcers are after
an interview with Fisher’s Ghost they
would be well advised to go in secretive
aloneness, as if they were conducting a
programme of Australian poetry on the
A.B.C.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Don P.”: The reputation of the navvy
was loosened with the loosening of bow-
yangs; even so, I hadn’t expected to see
what I saw yesterday—a pick-wielder
let his pick fall by gravitation as is now
usual and then and there pull out a
mirror and a comb and do his hair,
scrutinising his countenance like a horse-
tail female adolescent.
• • • • • V
“Rupeer”: A blond young god entered
the dining-room of a big Sydney pub
in the midst of the dinner-hour and,
comb in hand, taking up his stance in
front of a mirror, proceeded to arrange
his locks with the meticulous precision
normally accorded to women’s perms.
Astonished diners wondered which for-
tunate table might be the recipient of the
careful toilet. But they were doomed to
disappointment—a final scrutiny, a last-
ininute pat, and he turned on his heel
and left the dining-room in the direction
of the bar.
♦> ❖ ❖
“X.A.M.”: As my wife was about to
add a pinch of bicarbonate-of-soda to
the French-beans cooking on the stove
I drew her attention to the disastrous
effect such action would have on their
vitamin-content. She said Mrs. K’foops,
the celebrated cookery-expert, had said
over the radio that “it was all a lot of
hooey.” I replied that her views were
directly opposed to those of the medical
profession; but of course the bicarb,
was added, and the beans turned out
a delight both to the palate and the eye.
But, please, can anybody tell me who is
right—Mrs. K’foops or the medicos?.
♦♦♦ ♦> +>
“Flickers”: Cecil B de Mille’s pen-
chant for changing history to suit his
films could not be applied to “Ben Hur”
(B. 9/5/’56), because he was not con-
nected with its production. The credit
for directing this spectacle went to Fred
Niblo, assisted by B. Reeves Eason, who
created the* chariot-race —a sequence still
well remembered. “Zorok” may have
confused this film with De Mille’s 1927
saga, “King of Kings,” which proved his
statement “A religious picture has never
failed.” In box-office terms this still
holds good.
* * *
“Sister Ellell”: Our neighbor’s little
lass popped in with the latest news.
Last month it was a new baby. Today
it was a new cat. “It’s a lady cat, too, ’
she went on, “but she’ll never have any
kitties. Mum’s had her defrosted!”
❖ * ❖
READING of “The Mary” doing a
decent sort of roll in an Atlantic
storm reminded me of the morning she
spun me across the tiles of the Gents
and I finished-up in a pile of toilet-paper
and buckets. As was my wont, I’d nipped
down for a spot of invisibility while
p.-t. was on. I fancy the Old Lady was
slightly top-heavy at the time, with her
forest of a.-a. guns sprouting skywards
and 10,000-odd of the Ninth Division,
plus the crew, aboard. When I’d sub-
merged to my deodorised possie there’d
been no sign of a storm; the Indian
Ocean had been a gentle, boundless swell
of burnished cobalt. The sudden violent
cant decided me that this was it: “Haw-
Haw” had said a Jap sub. would get us.
It would be even better to come out and
risk bumping into Bob Risson, the C.R.E.,
on his morning rounds than drown like a
sapper in the sink. As I moved fast up
several stories an uproar lent wings to my
rubbers. “The Mary” had a lean on, all
right; for the vast mob was crowded to
port letting fly with skull-splitting blasts
of vehement discourtesy which for vigor
and originality must have roused the
ghosts of our old bullockies far over the
horizon to open-mouthed amazement and
envy. The great ship, heeling, shuddered
at the most concentrated onslaught I’ve
ever had the pleasure of subscribing to.
But it wasn’t a sub. Another ship ot
the convoy had moved within receiving-
range—and her passengers were the Div. s
provosts. — Ray Whiting.
THE WONDER-MEN
“In a press-interview in the U.S., Australian
actress Victoria Shaw said that American men
were henpecked, but that in Australia the
husband was boss.”
The married guys who dwell in the U.S.,
Behold them, slaves to weak uxorious ness!
Letting their women strongly rule the
roost,
Holding their necks out meekly to be
noosed;
Muttering their eternal “Sure thing,
honey!”
In answer to demands for more, more
money ;
Asking if they may go and see the ball-
game,
Or play some poker (though it be a small
game).
Their only consolation chewing gum
For being held ’neath matriarchal thumb.
Mr. America, bulging knotty mu/scles,
And seemingly replete with red
corpuscles..
Looking as if he might be given a fair
Chance in a battle with a grizzly bear ;
Able, you'd say, to tear apart a town.
And yet at eight-stone Mrs. America’s
frown
See the poor devil cringe in palsied fright
As if it’s detonated dynamite!
But right here {or, as the Yanks say,
Down Under )
We never make THAT matrimonial
blunder.
For my own part, I stand no wifely
blither.
One masterly look is quite enough to
wither.
Right from the start 1 thought I’d let her
know
Who’d be our roof-tree’s generalissimo.
I need but give one swift and meaning
glance
A t my closed fist, sign of my puissance,
For her to come to heel, a cooing dove.
As for decisions . . . “Yes, all right, my
love” . . .
Excuse me, I must go now; it's the call
To do the washing-up. Well, good-bye,
all!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


THERE’S a pleasant English flavor
in the names of some of the players
now contending for the Ashes —names
redolent of the village-green. England
has Trueman, Appleyard, May, Lock,
Insole and Watson; and then there are
our own Miller and Archer. The big
influx of migrants, however, must have
some effect on our team within a decade
or so; radio-commentators will then
regale us with such mouthfuls as:
“Skipitaris bowls: hard driven to Kaz-
merzyk, who fumbles and the ball goes
through to Pfannighausen on the fence.”
—“Doynest.”
* »> ♦>
“Sparks”: In a northern N.S.W. town
where centre-parking is permitted, a
motor-cycle cop hidden between two
parked cars kept a watchful eye on the
peak-hour traffic. Along came a motorist
driving with rule-book precision. When
he was almost abreast of the hidden
policeman two stray dogs began to chase
the car and the motorist leaned out and
abused them. The policeman chased him
half-a-block, booked him and had him
fined for indecent language.
)$►
“J.K.D.”: Canadian scientists have
invented a gadget which can tell drinkers
how drunk they are. Apparently based
on the slide-rule principle, the gadget is
equipped with dials, weights, and red,
green and amber lights. The drinker
makes necessary adjustments to cover
individual factors and thereafter the flick
of a dial will cause one of the lights to
flash an indication of his condition.
Anyone who has tried adjusting a slide-
rule when drunk will wonder how simple
those “adjustments” are.
❖ ♦♦+
“C.A.A.”: A Merbein (Vic.) transport-
driver who became bogged 60 miles north
of Wentworth was digging his vehicle free
when he shovelled-up the wallet of a Yass
(N.S.W.) competitor in last year’s Redex
Trial. The wallet contained a fiver and
registration-papers, and had been buried
for nearly nine months. But after they
found the winner of the last Redex Trial
“I'm afraid Mr. Hotshot's engagement-book is full until Thursday."
we all felt that anything would turn up,
given time.
❖ *l* ♦!+
“Old Crab”: About the £2-fine for the
Bendigo publican who went to church
(B. 13/6/’56): our lone chemist tells me
he’s liable for a fine if he leaves his shop
for even a quick haircut —unless it’s in
his threequarter-hour lunch-break.
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.K.D.”: Like Melbourne’s taxi-
drivers (B. 13/6/’56) Brisbane’s cabbies
are also opposed to the granting of new
licences. When the State Government
announced a proposal to grant a further
50 licences, Brisbane cabbies held angry
meetings, claiming that “The game was
already overcrowded.” But try to get a
taxi to anywhere other than the races on
race-days, or try getting one on cold,
wet nights or during the theatre-rush, and
you’ll finish-up walking home.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Red Dam”: “Propalong’s” con-
tention (B. 23/5/’56) that “young boys
want to belong” was convincingly demon-
strated when Kalgoorlie police appealed
for boys to join their new Police Boys’
Club. The multitude of eager youngsters
who turned up just couldn’t be accommo-
dated at the station. The inspector in
charge told the boys to go home and
come back next week, when a hall would
be hired to accommodate, apparently,
every youngster in Kalgoorlie.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Buskin”: From press-report of latest
Hollywood husband-hunt: “‘I met this
count in Rome,’ she confided to about 50
reporters and photographers.” Confided?
Shucks, let’s give the gal credit for some
commonsense!
♦♦♦
“Griff”: Mention of the centenary of
the soap firm of Kitchen and Sons and
the slogan with the grammatical error
that gave them their biggest publicity-
boost brings to mind another slogan at
one time known all over the Common-
wealth—“ There’s only one T in Aus-
tralia.” Long before the days of high-
pressure copy-writing, it was a rather
neat effort.
❖ ❖
“Dune”: Abbreviated classifieds (B.
20/6 / ’56)? An English friend, stationed
in Australia but reposted to England,
wanted to sell his car, so he sent me an
ad. for insertion in “S. M. Herald.” The
description of his car and the price he
was asking were followed by the letters
“0.N.0.” This was a new one on me,
and also on the desk-clerk at the news-
paper-office, but in it went. Later my
friend told me the letters were in common
use in England for “or near offer.”
❖ ❖ ❖
' “Floreat”: An English-teacher I know
would have had fun with “Willpar’s”
cosmetic pamphlet (B. 6/6/’56). Recently
he copied on to the board a full-page
ad. for a new perfume, then really went
to work on it. By the time he’d
thoroughly dissected it, and had cut out
superfluities, gross exaggerations and
alliterative inanities, he proved to his
class that all it really said was that Smell-
swells were now marketing a new brand
of perfume at 15s. lid. an ounce.
❖ ❖ ❖
“H.A.L.”: What’s this nonsense about
thiefproof steering-column locks not being
fitted to cars today (B. 20/6 / ’56)? I
inquired about one when I bought a new
Holden. Yes, I could have one, but, like
all such ttfngs nowadays, it would be an
extra. I paid up cheerfully—l’d had a
car without a lock stolen and found
badly-damaged. I swore it would never
happen again ; it hasn’t. A plainclothes-
man who has been on the job of catch-
ing those who “interfere” with parked
cars assures me that the young hoodlums
who go about looking for cars to “knock
off” always take a glance through a side-
window before commencing operations.
If they see that bulge on the steering-
column they move on to the next bus.
❖ ❖
“Aeolus”: The patient had just
returned to the ward from the operating-
theatre, and his fellow-sufferers regarded
him with sympathy. The screens were
placed around him, and nurses tried to
make him comfortable. He let out a
couple of moans and began to cry; the
“She knows how to use her head!"
other patients stirred restlessly. Pres-
ently he settled down, and when he
started to sing the reactions of other
patients were varied. Then from behind
the screens, in a voice still thick from
sodium pentothal, he called, “Wot won
the Cup?” I could answer that one. It
was Adelaide Cup Day, 1955, and I’d
drawn Storm Glow in the hospital sweep.
❖ *l* ❖
“Uramao”: Kiwis will soon be able to
view the campaigns in Africa, Crete and
Italy from the German angle. An Act of
U.S. Congress authorised the transfer to
the New Zealand Government of 25
paintings by artists of the German High
Command showing incidents of the cam-
paigns, and the paintings, valued at
£l5OO, halve been brought to New Zealand
by the R.N.Z.A.F. goodwill-mission on
its return-flight from the U.S.
“Cash Count”: “G.M.’s” Hobart
strongroom (B. 20/6/’56) must be made of
sterner stuff than the type our bank
relies on. One of our managers died
suddenly, and for some reason the safe-
combination couldn’t be traced. A
bloke from the firm that instals our
strongrooms went out to the branch,
bored a hole through the concrete wall,
opened the door from the inside, patched-
up the hole, and was out of the place
before lunch.
“O’Hell”: Radio-quiz aspirant was
asked to have a stab at a piece of music,
which turned out to be “Rippling Water.”
The piece must have given her the right
idea, because she promptly said it
sounded like a sink overflowing.
♦♦♦
“Yakipan”: The Federal Government
is to build an 18-knot 6000-ton motor-
ship which will carry 100 motor-vehicles
between Melbourne and Devonport
(Tas.): “drive on, drive off.” Passengers
will have berths, seats and cafeteria-
meals. Stabilisers will reduce rolling.
The ship will be three years building in
an Australian yard—it is hoped that the
Taroona, at present on the run, will last-
out till the new one takes over.
“Aqua”: In the Victorian Railways’
staff-canteen at Spencer-street pie-plus-
tea costs Is, Id. In the Melbourne goods-
sheds, open to railwaymen and public,
the same costs Is. 3d. But for paying-
passengers pie-and-tea rises to Is. 5d.;
maybe that makes them taste better.
*s*
“W.P.T.”: Returning to Sydney from
a trip to Jenolan Caves I noticed a sign
inviting travellers to try the delightful
Hartley cider. Bought a bottle from a
Hartley Valley apple-stall, and found that
it was certainly delightful, but the label
told me it was made in South Australia.
At the Caves I had tried to buy a real
Australian souvenir. There were cups,
saucers, ash-trays and egg-cups made in
Czechoslovakia, pencils made in Ger-
many, key-chains made in Italy, and even
photos of the caves printed in England.
If we knew all, we should probably find
that the Caves had been excavated by a
Swedish dam-gang working for a firm of
South American excavation-contractors.
♦l* tjf
“Sixtoes”: Had to change a wheel on
my last trip to the N.Z. city, as bad luck
would have it, right in the middle of a
patch of yellow soup on a new piece of
road-construction. A little ashamed, I
put out my shoes at the big hotel. Next
morning I felt a lump in the toe of one as
I put it on —just a screw of paper with a
message scribbled in pencil. “Half-ton
mud this time. Make one-ton next time.”
Made suitable amends the next evening
with more-or-less clean shoes, the price
of a drink, and a brief note, just
“Sorry.” Next morning, again a slip of
paper and the message: “Thanks. But just
my little laugh.” Obviously a very recent
arrival.
♦> ❖ +l<
“Rimutuka”: I offered the chap who
came to me charity-collecting 2s. It
was rejected with scorn and abuse, and
a homily on “the meanness of people
living in flash suburbs” poured into my
astonished ears. A phone-call to the
society he claimed to represent disclosed
they had no authorised collectors out that
day.
<£♦ %
“Looby”: A high-flown young friend
said to me: “You’ve heard, I presume,
of the Noble Eightfold Path?” “Ah,
no,” I countered, “unless it’s something
to do with the eight furlongs to a mile.”
“Nothing like it!” I was told. “The
eightfold path is right knowledge, right
intention, right speech, right conduct,
right livelihood, right effort, right
mindfulness, right concentration.” I
yawned a bit. “Aw, that’s one of these
pay-as-you-go stunts improve your
business-career by post, eh?” It turned
out to be the teaching of Buddha, who
died 2500 years ago.
* ♦> ❖
“Clem”: On what basis are jobs
categorised in the Classified Ads?
Browsing through “Professional” and
“Situations Vacant” columns, I noticed
under the latter heading: journalist,
electrical-engineer, laboratory-assistants,
choirmaster, organist, plus lots of jobs
where “y* only need y’r ’ands.” Garnish-
ing the “Professional” column, with its
pleadings for lecturers in physics, aero-
nautical-engineers and so on, were
requests for hairdressers, junior mes-
sengers, switchboard attendants, typists,
and, as the cherry on the top, a
hypnotist!
♦> ❖ ❖
“Gossipper”: What price a bomb? I
acquired a ’24-vintage model with good
rubber for a tenner in 1936. It took me
many miles over country roads; then I
gave it away. In 1947 I saw it in a car-
park priced at £45, a little worse for wear.
And now, in 1956, my old bomb, with
leaky radiator and clanking universal,
stands in yet another car-park priced at
£65. If the price of a secondhand car
increases 650 per cent, in 20 years, what
will be the value of a ’24-vintage as an
antique when, if ever, it is finally
pensioned-off?
WHERE LEAGUE IS LEGAL.
a brawl between members of two
Rugby League teams at Woodenbong, northern
N.S.W., the referee and 16 players had to be
treated by ambulancemen.”
At Woodenbong, where League’s played
boots-and-all,
The feeling of the partisan runs
strong;
When tempers flare it’s not a pansies’
brawl:
They simply grab a junk of wood an’
—BONG!
N.S.W.
ZAKE.


Keep in
good
SPIR' TS
n
EKOTH
p hoSPITAL
“RANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Fil:st awards of the Bronze Life Saving
Medal of the Order of St. John, in West-
ralia, have been made to Perth
ambulance-driver C. F. Thorpe and the
station-officer of Perth Central Fire
Station, C. W. Thomson. Both men
went down a narrow well at Mt. Lawley
(Perth) to rescue a contractor who had
fallen to the bottom and sustained
multiple injuries..
• •
Met in Perth on his arrival for a new
Gilbert-and-Sullivan season, Graham
Clifford, a grey-haired Englishman
with an infectious grin. Lofting
only sft. 4in., he early decided that he
hadn’t the inches to become a leading-
man, so concentrated on character-parts,
of which he has played grisly ones in
grand-opera as well as light-comedy parts.
In Australia, he will play the roles
formerly played by Ivan Menzies.
WALTER REGINALD McDONALD,
general-manager, Brisbane “Telegraph."
Well-known news paper math lecturer and
broadcaster. Frequently heard on A.B.C.
Has toured Britain. America, Japan, India
and other countries. Prominent Rotarian.
Plays bowls, golf. Keen on music. Only
son is R.A.A.F. fighter-pilot.
Sidney Edgar Barratt, of Anst. Elec-
trical Industries, Ltd., has been elected
president of the Metal Trade Employers’
Association for his second term.
• • .
“A.C.T.”: Blinded in action in France
in February, 1917, Francis Marriott never
allowed his disability to hamper his
public life or interfere with his wide
range of private interests. Due to cele-
brate his 80th birthday on July 11 at his
home in Tasmania, he’ll have memories of
a fine record of service in the Tasmanian
Parliament, and no doubt he has talked
sound politics with two of his sons —
F. A. Marriott, who succeeded him as a
member for Bass, and John, one of Tas-
mania’s Liberal Senators at Canberra.
Frank Marriott was born in London, went
to sea in 1895, and settled down to farm-
ing in Tasmania in 1903. Joined the
First A.1.F., reached the rank of captain,
became M.H.A. for the Darwin seat in
1922, and in 1941 transferred to Bass,
which he held until retiring 10 years ago.
His interests included the Boy Scout
movement (he was Chief Commissioner
for Tasmania and holds the Scout Gold
Medal), Toe H (Federal president for
some years) and the Anglican Synod.
He’s also been a member of the executive
council of the R.S.L., and an ardent
worker for disabled soldiers and their
dependants. On two of his several
visits to England he had private audiences
with George V, who was keenly interested
in his activities. He was awarded the
C.M.G.
• •
“A.” on a merchandising pioneer:
The good smell of leather is something one
doesn’t expect to enjoy in an Australian city
nowadays, in Adelaide you get it at the R. M.
Williams store in Percy-street, Prospect—and
behind the present company’s large activities
there’s a story of one man’s enterprise, begin-
ning about 20 years back, when R. M. Williams
started his small workshop. Before that he’d
travelled many thousands of miles in the out-
back by truck, horse, camel, and on foot, as a
missionary, and had seen something of the
material needs of the people who were trying to
tame it. He reasoned that no concern in Aus-
tralia catered exclusively for their needs —hence
the workshop, now grown to two large factories.
But first he had to learn how to make “laughing-
side” boots, trousers and leather-coats. As the
business grew he added other lines. Cloth for
heavy shirts and trousers were boiled in coppers
and hung out to dry before cutting, to make sure
the garments didn’t shrink- —the process is still
followed, with modern equipment. Now the
company’s blacksmith’s shop turns out dozens
of different articles—water-canteens, bits,
brands, saddles and clothing. But the emphasis
is still on the outback. And, apart from work-
ing-clothing, there’s a fancy line for rodeos and
the like. The firm also publishes the monthly
magazine “Hoofs and Horns.” Williams
is on the committee of the Equestrian Federa-
tion of Australia, and is also secretary of the
Rough Riders Association of Australia, which
he was instrumental in forming.
• •
On this page of May 11, 1955, the late
Charles Shaw wrote: “What! Harold
Sarina resigned from N.S.W. Royal
Agricultural Society? They might just as
well pull down the big clock-tower over
the members’-stand!” He finished the par.
with: “They’d better watch out he doesn’t
start an R.A.S. of his own.” Not long
after that Sarina became organising-
secretary of the Keyline Foundation,
then —in addition —he began to do sec-
retarial and publicity work for Corne-
dale breeders (he lately turned-out an
eye-catching brochure on Corriedales),
and he has brought-off a double by
becoming secretary and p.-r. man for the
Aberdeen Angus people and Sydney
representative of the Murray Valley
Development League. . Looking at it
purely from the breed-society angle,
that’s not a bad start. And a bit of
healthy competition on the secretarial
and organising side won’t do the sheep-
societies and cattle-societies any harm.
• •
“Jock”: A. E. Rudder, the Sydney
businessman (B. 2/6/’56) who died the
other day, was the first Australian agent
for the old Imperial Airways. During
War H he gave his entire 8.0.A.C. income
to No. 10 Sunderland Squadron to buy
comforts for the airmen. Rudder
bought and planted scores and scores of
flame-trees, which, in the flowering
season, enliven and brighten the fore-
shores of Cremome and Mosman around
Sydney Harbor.
• •
Sydney’s new 'harbormaster, Captain
James H. Simpson, is now holding down
a similar job at Newcastle. He succeeds
Captain Donald Mcßae, also a former
Newcastle harbormaster. Captain Simp-
son first went to sea in the A.U.S.N.
passenger-ship Lebuka, and later joined
the six-masted barquentine E. R. Sterling.
Finishing-up War II as a lieut.-com-
mander in the R.A.N., he had served
in H.M.A.S. Sydney (he was in
her when she sank the Bartolomeo
Colleoni), H.M.A.S. Adelaide, H.M.A.S.
Toowoomba (as commander) and
H.M.A.S. Manoora, an infantry-landing
ship.
• •
James Augustus Klein (“J.A.” to many
Westralians) was born at Sentry Box
Reach, near Wiseman’s Ferry on the
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.), 83 years
ago, and in 1899 went to the West with
several other Fortians. He became W.A.
Director of Education, a historian and
philosopher, and a prominent Mason
(former grand master, W.A.C.). Among
other activities, he introduced lunch-
hour community-singing to W.A., starting
it in Fremantle Town Hall. Now he s
back in his native State, on his native
Hawkesbury—on Pittwater—-where he’s
living with his son, War II Brigadier
Bruce Klein.
• •
Hugh Dean Thomas Williamson,
general-manager of the Australian and
New Zealand Bank, Ltd., becomes new
chairman of the Australian Bankers’
Association. A Ballarat (Vic.) boy,
schooled at Ballarat High, he was further
schooled in that fair city, with the Bank
of Australasia, in whatever juvenile
bankers require to know. A sizeable
span of years between and he became
inspector in Wellington (N.Z.), same
bank, and a year or so later chief-
inspector in Melbourne. That was from
1948 to 1951. From 1951 to 1953 he
was chief-inspector of the A.N.Z. bank,
became assistant general-manager in 1954
and general-manager the same year.
Moral seems to be that in banking, as in
more humble pursuits, success sometimes
comes with a rush. He’s 55 and a golfer.
. • •
C.M.F. Brig.:
Allan Murchison became a C.M.F. Brigadier
and took-over 8 Bde. (Sydney) on July 2.
At 38, he’s the youngest of his rank in Aus-
tralia. .
He was in the old militia (N.S.W. Scottish),
was commissioned when Hitler’s war broke out,
sailed in the first convoy with the 2/3 Bn.,
went from platoon command to company com-
mand in Libya (M.C. at Bardia), thence Greece,
Syria.
Back from the Middle East in 1942, he was
appointed 2/i.c. of 26 Bn. and later went to
Bougainville, where, in January, 1945, he was
given the job of forming and commanding the
2nd New Guinea Infantry Battalion —-an assign-
ment, in the conditions then prevailing, with
unusual problems and unusual scope for
initiative. How young Murchison coped with
the situation was doubtless duly recorded and
stored for future reference.
Four months later the battalion moved up
to Aitape and joined 17 Bde. under the com-
mand of the late J. Murray-Moten ; it continued
to serve there until the end of the war —the
only native battalion which fought ,as a battalion
and at the finish was successfully attacking with
close air and artillery support. The troops
were given normal infantry training, despite all
sorts of expert advice. A distinguished anthro-
pologist said that training native battalions was
all very well: but what about reinforcements?
BRIGADIER
The Army would have to do what the British
Army in India had done for generations
recruit from tribal districts. “In the long run,
perhaps, that may have been true,” Murchison
said, reminiscing. “But the best immediate
comment was when we asked a Siassi to Pick
two men to go on patrol with him. He picked
a Sepik and an Aitape!” . .
When the C.M.F. started again in 1948, A.M.
went back to his old regiment as 2/i.c., later
C. 0., then went to Eastern Command Stan;
Group. In private life he’s managing-director
of Cleveland Engineering and Welding Co.,
Pty., Ltd., and a couple of subsidiary com-
panies. Interested in Legacy, he’s also president
of the Highland Society of N.S.W.
An outline and assessment of Field-
Marshal Sir Claude Auchinleck’s career
appears elsewhere in this issue. Inter-
viewed at 252 George-street, he struck
this observer as one of the most pleasant
and unassuming visitors the place has had.
From a conversation with “Ek Dum”
about campaigns and military personali-
ties, he switched to a talk with The
Bulletin editor about commerce, min-
ing and the like, with hardly a ripple;
and found time for some interesting bits
FIELD-MARSHAL
about John Masters, the Indian Army
officer who turned novelist and is now
living in America —the best writer on the
British-in-India since Kipling. Masters,
it seems, was at one time Auchinleck’s
G. 5.0.1, and the Field-Marshal had
just had a letter from his erstwhile staff-
officer. Discussing Night Runners of
Bengal, he put his finger at once on
what distinguishes it from all other
imaginative reconstructions of the Indian
Mutiny—its beautiful balance. Out here
on business —he’s chairman of Dowsett
Holdings, the U.K. parent of Dowsett
Engineering (Aust.) Pty., Ltd. —he said
that a major interest in such trips was
“people” ; a remark which —as a sort of
philosophy of life and soldiering-—has a
precise echo in Masters’s latest, auto-
biographical, book, Bugles and a Tiger.
« ®
Former Bulletin staff-writer J. E.
Macdonnell (still in his thirties, he’s
retired to write books, something many
journalists aspire to, but few achieve)
has had some good news from London.
Conqueror Films has bought the option
on the film-rights of Commander Brady,
his latest novel, the third of a trilogy.
Not home and hosed yet, of course, but
a nice cheque in the meantime . . . and,
if the option is taken up, Paul Soskin,
who produced “The Cruel Sea,” will pro-
bably do likewise with this story of
Royal Australian Navy men in the
Pacific. It should film well—scene
follows scene sharply, there’s plenty
of action and, too, rather more
depth and emphasis on character
than in Macdonnell’s earlier published
work. Some of the minor charac-
ters particularly a naughty but
very human girl and a tough city Aus-
tralian —are very good indeed. The book
is selling well in England, has recently
started as a serial in Brisbane “Sunday
Mail,” and is being scripted for radio-
serialisation.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 56, following a heart-attack in
the Monte Bellos during the latest tests, Dr.
Cecil Ernest Eddy, member of the Australian
Atomic Safety . Committee, director of the Com-
monwealth X-ray and Radium Laboratory, and
a world authority on nuclear radiation. Last
year he was elected chairman of the U.N. com-
mittee studying the effects of radiation on human
life and health.
At 56, in Melbourne, Finton George Gerraty,
chairman of the Forests Commission of Victoria.
In Adelaide, at Victor H. Ryan, former
director of the State Tourist Bureau (for 3U
years) and prominent Rotarian; secretary m
1948, president in 1950.
In Melbourne, at 78, Ernest Renton Power, a
foundation-member of the Journalists Press
Board, parent of the A.J.A.
In Sydney, Mrs. Edith Adelaide Hilf
Back in the 1890’s she and her husband, the
late W. B. Hill, established at Chatswood, on
Sydney’s • North Shore line, the general-store
now conducted by A. J. Benjamin, Ltd.


■ NOTS, BOLTS , NAILS,
SCREWS, OOO SPIKES'.
\\
Court OK */
y&o &uy//K& y
Vogs?i<£S {
r /
1 TfMvIVC lT 7 5 T IMS
l BOiuT wyszuf A //
VO&HOusgj My .
A CANINE EXISTENCE


ABORIGINALITIES
npHE once-universal but now-obsolete
head-cover of rectangular paper that
kept sawdust off the macassar-oil on
carpenters’ top-pieces can be seen now
only by consulting Tenniel’s illustrations
of “The Walrus and the Carpenter.”
It was uniform in Melbourne in 1905,
when my father called on his friend
Willie Alcock at his billiard-table works.
To my father’s great surprise, there at a
bench, paper-capped and doing a fine
job on a mahogany scoring-board, was
his former workmate Douglas Ross, who,
coming from Scotland, had been a rouse-
about for two years at Temora station
while Father was a jackeroo there.
Painfully remembering his own
amateurish carpentry efforts on gates and
other station-maintenance items, while
Douglas had the menial job of holding
bits of wood for him, Father indicated
his surprise.
Said Douglas, pawkily: “I served my
time in Glasgow, but I was engaged at
Temora as a rouseabout.” And, as a
final jar to Father’s memory of the
inadequate station-tools, Douglas with
dour Celtic point added: “My tool-chest
was under the bunk for two years.”
Sevenelms.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: Interesting lot put up at
a Victorian Railways lost-property
auction: three genuine swagman’s swags.
They brought 15-bob a touch. Don’t
know if Henry Lawson ever com-
memorated The Absentminded Swagman
in prose or verse. It sounds the sort of
thing he might have written —but, then,
Lawson’s swagmen rarely had the where-
withal for railway-fares.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: The peewee pair hatched-
out a brood of three—-two hens and a
cock. Some weeks after the youngsters
emerged from their nest the family split
into two groups, the two hens associat-
ing with Ma, the cock with Pa. Her
charges launched on the world a little
later, the adult hen rejoined her mate,
who had meanwhile been bringing his son
up the hard way. Rough handling, how-
ever, didn’t cause the now-hefty
youngster to desert his sire. Instead, after
each belting he fluffed his neck-feathers
and bowed his head, humble and sub-
missive. He evidently valued highly the
privilege of observing Pop’s behavior.
While the trio remained together—and
it was fully five more weeks before junior
finally departed—l never saw the adult
hen administer punishment. Indeed, she
seemed to retain a soft spot for her son,
even after the maternal instinct had
presumably spent itself for the season.
* * * *
“Clem”: The old Cutty Sark, cashiered
when racing tea-clippers became
uneconomic, is to cost £250,000 to pre-
serve as an English museum-piece. I
wonder what the old speedster cost in the
first place?
* * * •
“Eureka”: For at least 20 years a hive
of bees had been at work in the cavity of
the sandstone wall of a shop in Parra-
matta (N.S.W.), but recently a wooden
box was fastened to the opening, the bees
induced to leave the wall-cavity for the
modern home with all modern conveni-
ences, and the crack sealed with cement.
It was one of many unusual beehives I
have seen. One was in the hollow statue
of Sir John Robertson in the Sydney
Botanical Gardens, another in the front
wall of the National Art Gallery in the
Sydney Domain, but most unusual of all
was that in an old tomb in Bunnerong
cemetery, on Botany Bay.
* * * •
“Sack”: My neighbor claims he has
settled what’s become a subject of
“This is the life — breakfast, dinner and tea in bed!”
national controversy. Going on a long car-
tour, he took his kelpie bitch with him.
About 100 miles from home Tess became
violently ill. He stopped the car, lifted
her out, and she rapidly recovered. He
drove on; again she became sick.
Obvious diagnosis: car-sickness. At that
distance from home he was committed to
take the tyke the rest of the journey.
Somebody suggested the dangling chain.
Result: 1500 miles on the speedo without
another perk from the pooch. “So much
for the yam that a dangling chain is
“ Look — automation !”
only successful because of its psychologi-
cal effect,” says her owner. “Tess don’t
believe in psychology.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Peculiar chap, Jack
Frost. Came to my garden last week,
at 28deg. F. on the grass. With icy
blowlamp he burnt the tomato-vines,
beans, potatoes and lettuce. Bypassed
the carrots, beetroot, silver-beet, cabbage,
shallots and rhubarb. Seared the mint
and blackened the pumpkin-vines, but left
the children’s flowers: sweetpeas, “puppy-
dogs,” marigolds and larkspurs. I’m
grateful for his kindness to the kids;
they love their flowers.
* * * «
“J. 8.”: We’d had so much trouble
with our grandfather-clock, usually of
most methodical habits, that we thought
it must be feeling its age. Not only
was it losing hours a day, but it now
spoke only in a slow, deliberate and
asthmatical voice. We discovered a
large green frog sitting on the pendulum,
dreamily surveying the scene as he
slowed the minutes down for his greater
enjoyment. The intruder dislodged, the
pendulum, perhaps weakened by the
frog’s weight, snapped off. Grandfather
then lost patience. Whirling his arms
madly round his face, he struck the hours
in rapid succession. By 12-o’clock the
incessant chiming had nearly driven us
nuts. However, with his pendulum
restored, the old fellow happily returned
to his sober, pre-frog habits.
* * * *
“Babbler”: The mushroom contracting-
team, suspected of “scabbing,” was up
before the shearers’ strike-committee.
“How did they get on?” we asked an
inside-man after the meeting. “Oh, we
whitewashed the lot,” he said. “All bar
the cook. Just for your information,
she’s black for life.” He was right. We
met her later. She was a full-blooded
abo.
« • * *
“Churchilla”: “Get on the electoral
roll? Not on your life! There’s me
sister, she’s twenty-five and only got on
the roll last year, and wishing she didn*t.
Look at all the trouble goin’ to town to
vote! And if she doesn’t go she’ll get
fined. They’ll never get two-quid out of
me. Listen, I know of dozens that never
intend to get on the roll; yes, men, too.”
On inquiry I find in our out-of-the-way
corner that many aren’t on the roll and
never intend to get on. Is this a sign that
all’s well in our semi-Socialised State, or
can we take it to mean that these people
have given up hope of ever getting
further improvements?
• * * *
“Chink”: I don’t know whether it’s
possible to determine accurately the
original length of a decapitated fish (B.
13/6/’56), but I do know, or should know,
how to tell the weight of any fish, and
that at a mere glance. The method was
often enough advocated by Pat, an old-
timer who served as generally-useful on
my first country newspaper. It was, in
fact, his standing jest, when he was under
the weather. Forgetting then that he had
told it to me scores of times, he would
await my return from a meeting of the
local football-club (or maybe the Recha-
bite Lodge), and then, fixing me with a
rheumy eye, he would proceed to relate
how he once lost a fish that weighed
exactly 61b. 3oz. My obligation, of course,
was to express doubt and ask a certain
question; but, with the approval of
listening comps, I usually kept Pat on
tenterhooks by wandering round the sub-
ject. At last, though, I would come to
the party. “By the way, Pat,” I would
say, apparently as an afterthought, “how
the deuce could you tell the precise weight
of that fish if you lost him?” And Pat,
leaping into the air in excitement, would
shout triumphantly, “I weighed him by
the scales on his back!”
* * * *
“M’Lou”: Among the casual labor
that drifts in and out of our district
each summer there came an Italian,
a former opera-singer who had toured
with one of Melba’s companies. Taking
a job as cook, he said his wife did not
speak English, but would help in the
house. Weeks later, on hearing what a
good cook he was, someone asked how
his wife was getting on. “She’s gone,” he
said. “About a month ago her husband
came and took her away.”
* * * *.
“Sevenelms”: Muttonfish makes a soup
superior to toheroa. Ninety years ago
there was substantial export from Tas-
mania to Hong Kong of dried powdered-
muttonfish to compete with sea-slug and
birds’-nest soups for epicurean tastes.
Gouge the flesh out of the shells into
a kero.-tin, cover with fresh-water. Bring
to the boil, and at once pour off the
water to get rid of excessive saltiness.
Barely cover with fresh-water, and
simmer five hours. Bottle for future
use as soup-essence. It’s plenty strong,
and keeps a month at least.
TRACY’S
Tracy’s shop lay down the street in the cold
clear afternoon,
Tracy started work at eight as rose the morn-
ing moon,
The white Australian, light Australian, cold
pure dewy moon.
And Tracy’s hammers struck the hours as
town-clocks strike a tune.
Tracy had the wheelwright’s shop and made the
sulkies there,
You passed them on your way to work and
saw them at repair.
Yes, that was in the good old days, an everyday
affair,
Buggies sprawled with worn-out shafts red-
painted in the dust,
Sulkies stood behind them, tall and covered
with red rust.
A coat of paint, a stencilled back, and good-
as-gold we trust,
We brought them in to Tracy to help him earn
a crust.
And all day long the hammer’s song, as clear
and cold as streams
That fall down from the Dandenongs where
the golden wattle gleams,
Beat in and out and struck the iron and turned
the red-hot steel,
For Tracy knew a carriage and the way that
sulkies feel.
I see the brown dust once again, deep-soft
within the shop,
The anvil and the tins of grease whose soft
depths seemed to slop
And talk of Alexander and the way his
chariots sped,
In the sons before Tracy built the shop above
his head . . .
The red wheels spun, the stencils black shone
glittering in the light,
As they washed the gig or sulky down with
water cold and bright—
The Dandenong town-hail arose in stone across
the way,
Behind the shop the horses stood, the chestnut
and the grey,
And stamped their feet and shook their veils,
to keep the flies away.
And men from out at Cranbourne and as far
as Bunyip, too,
Brought in their gigs on Tuesday to see what
he could do —
With broken brakes and twisted tyres and shafts
that cracked a bit,
They took them down to Tracy to see if he
could fit
A shaft on here, a wheel on there, and Tracy
made them go;
For Tracy knew within himself the way that
sulkies grow.
From Lang Lang and from Pakenham, from
Clayton and Springvale,
He knew each gig and buggy and knew it with-
out fail.
It came unto him once a year from every little
shire
And stood at last in Tracy’s shop in deep dust
by the fire.
His hammers started out at eight and rang the
live-long day
And clanged like great pianos in some old land
far away.
And as the market-town got filled and stock
came piling in,
Dark Tracy stroked his long moustache and
smilecl a silent grin . . a
O, the ancient dreams and classic dreams of old
tired wheels,
Of the grey and silver flash of light that an
iron tyre feels;
The message that it seems to press deep in the
ardent dust,
A form of sturdy ancient Greek that speaks
because it must.
A broad heroic anguished strain that tells of
other days
And Roman trophies borne on wheels down
rumbling Roman ways,
On afternoons so old and bright they make your
eyes feel dim,
And Roman arms and Qesar’s gold and all the
ways of him . . .
Clang, clang, clang from dawn to dark did
Tracy’s hammers ring,
A governess-cart within the shop, it looked a
very king . . .
But the buggies and the sulkies were the real
Australian things.
The echoes of the hammers seemed to them to
strike and sing
A long rough song of country roads all full of
songs and wings.
From Beaconsfield and Pakenham they brought
the buggies in,
To take them down to Tracy’s and let the
hammer’s din
Make well again the chariots that one by one
had grown
To carry forth the Roman in this land he called
his own.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


'THE silent serenity of the lake’s
timbered edge was disturbed by the
arrival of the utility, and, with the few
odd anglers there, I casually watched four
well-oiled “shipwrights” unload their
galvanised craft. Launched, the thing
listed heavily to one side. It was beached,
and after a conference, during which the
bottle was passed around, they attacked
the craft with hammers. Launched
again, the list persisted. Beached again,
an argument started, and each man
brought down his hammer to his own
fancy. When put to water, the battered
vessel rolled over and disappeared. The
loud cross-fire of accusing oaths was soon
lost in the utility’s roaring exhaust as it
carried the would-be mariners away from
the tragedy. In five-minutes all was
quiet again.—“J.P.C.”
* * * *
“Griff”: In Victoria apprentices are
learning their trade by radio-broadcast
from the private radio-station of Mel-
bourne Technical College. Those
living in country/towns, who formerly
had to rely on correspondence-tuition
for their trade-theory, are lending an
unusually-attentive ear to these broad-
casts.
* * * *
/ ,
“Woorarra”: Amongst avians that
have a gaudy male with inconspicuous
wife there is a general tendency for
juvenile males to resemble their mothers.
This is probably Nature’s precaution to
ensure that the youngsters acquire
strength of wing and worldly wisdom be-
fore assuming their somewhat dangerous
splendor. Sometimes the period of
plumage-probation is so protracted that
security-reasons can’t be held account-
able—up to seven years has been men-
tioned in the case of some bower-birds.
With these, a score or so of drab-
plumaged birds may be seen for one
apparelled in full male magnificence—a
fact that gave rise to erroneous beliefs
regarding the birds’ family-life in earlier
days. Parrots and (I think) pittas assume
brilliant colors at an earlier age than
most other bright-hued fowl. Both are,
however, protected from predators in
early immaturity—parrots because they
are usually hatched out of sight in tree-
hollows and pittas because their home
is in dense brush.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: What the regulations
call “migrant native people” are to be
banned from residing in Port Moresby
unless they’re under the control of a
“non-native person.” Idea is to give
some authority over the vagrants living
in unauthorised and insanitary settlements
in and around Moresby, and should be a
good thing for all concerned.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Hori, on a rare visit to
town from the N.Z. tall timbers, selected
a couple of buns in the cafeteria and
retired to a table carrying them in his
hand. When the tea-waitress came he
was still clutching the buns and glaring
at the table. “Take away that dirty plate
and get the clean one,” he demanded,
nodding vigorously towards the overfull
ash-tray.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: “Bert the Carpenter”
(B. 6/6/’56) got hickory for tool-handles
out of buggy-spokes that would be
mature-growth stock about 30 or more
annual rings to the inch. Quite suitable
for chisel-handles and such, but no
material for a hammer- or tomahawk-
connoisseur. For these, second-growth
hickory of 10 rings to the inch, and
weight 321 b., provides the necessary light-
ness and elasticity. The fussiest customers
on handles were stone-knappers on road-
metal. With their cluttering accoutre-
ments of shin-guards and eye-guards,
their solitary employment seemed to have
them dream unduly of perfect handles
which neither broke nor jarred the hands.
Difficult to replace at short notice were
handles on mechanical blacksmith-
hammers. The originals were 9in. x 9in. x
10ft. long, of rock-maple. Queensland-
maple, as a substitute, was a moderate
success. I think we should have tried
karri. It’s a tough one, but it’s too late
now—they build them of laminated
lin.-boards with rubber between, and
they never break.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: The wood-merchant (B.
13/6/’56) who charged “Augustus” for
“1 ton (short)” was probably not con-
fessing his short-comings, but just stating
that the weight was 20001 b., and not
22401 b., as in the ordinary “long” ton.
In fact, it’s as well to know, when dealing
with a wood-merchant, which of four
different tons he’s referring to when he
quotes a price: the long-ton, the short-
ton, the measured-ton of 50 cubic-feet
(the correct measurement for firewood in
the log), or, as one vendor in a Victorian
town put it across the unsuspecting house-
holders, the 40 cub.-ft. “ton of shipping,”
which is used to measure rectangular
stacks of sawn timber. The long-ton,
20cwt. of 1121 b. per cwt., is said to have
had its origin in the allowance made for
dirt and rubbish in root-crops, an extra
121 b. being added to the ordinary 1001 b.;
but grain, flour and “mill offal,” in which
there is no waste, continued to be sold
by the old short-ton of 20001 b., or 20
centals.
* * * *
“Renraw”: A North Coast (N.S.W.)
cocky, ordered by a tick-control inspector
to dip a three-day-old calf, was so
incensed that he grabbed the official and
threw hint into the dip. Well, it’s good
to have at least one tick-free inspector.
* * # •
“Four Threes”: As a sideline to firing
his loco., Bricky kept a row of spuds
baking on the injector steam-pipe and
would greet a visitor to the footplate
with the offer “ ’Ave a ’ot spud?” Also,
along the track there were customers who,
at the approach of Bricky’s train, had
hands cupped ready for hot donations.
One such navvy wore a flannel-shirt some
sizes too large; a temptation for the
inevitable to happen. He mis-caught
one of Bricky’s hot tubers on his thumb
and it promptly bounced down the open
shirt. The navvy’s gyrations started with
a Highland-fling and, as the spud
descended to more tender anatomical
regions, culminated in a tarantella that
would have made any jive-fiend stare
with reverence. Nothing will convince
the navvy that Bricky’s donation was not
aimed.
* * * *
“Motuku”: Most birds—from the
swift two-toed ostrich to the waddling
pengpins and grebes; from the “yoke-
toed” climbers (parrots and cockatoos)
to the weak-footed spine-tailed swifts
and frigate-birds that feed entirely on the
wing—have feet and legs to suit their
mode of life; but there are notable Aus-
tralian exceptions. Butcher-birds, killing
many creatures too large to be swallowed
whole, cannot hold them firmly with their
“Now will I be able to buy a big hat and a mouthorgan?”
feet while tearing them to pieces with
their hooked beaks, so they wedge their
prey in a fork or impale it on a thorn.
The kookaburra, even weaker in feet and
legs, hasn’t acquired the “butcher’s
hook” trick, but its powerful beak and
neck-muscles enable it to bash its
prey into a shape and size that it can
swallow. Among scratching birds the
outstanding examples of suitable adap-
tation are found in the Megapodes (“big-
feet”) —mallee-fowl, brush-turkey and
scrub-fowl—whose very large tootsies
and strong pins enable them to build
their huge nesting-mounds. Among
aquatic birds the jacana (lotus-bird) is a
striking example ; its feet, with very long,
thin toes and long, straight claws, enab-
ling it to run over small floating water-
weeds as if really walking on the water.
“H.C.8.”: Curious thing, noise. No
matter how loud and discordant, it never
worries you if you’re the bloke making
it. The siren-happy motorist is never
perturbed by his own blarings; bashing
metal with a heavy hammer doesn’t
annoy the wielder. Thus, the people near
our job bitterly complained about the
noise from the compressor and jack-
hammers with which we were cutting-out
an old concrete-foundation. Lunch-time
came, and because the compressor was
hard to start, the driver left it running.
“Can you let me have something for the cat nextdoor?”
Within three-minutes the noise was getting
on our own nerves; five more and the
compressor-driver asked: “If I cut her
off will any of y’ give me a hand to
swing the starting-handle again?” Every
man fell over himself to volunteer, but
none of us had been the slightest bit dis-
turbed all the morning by the noise of
the same compressor, plus the additional
racket from the jack-hammers.
* * * «
“Sebak”: The ornamental pine, 20ft.
high and more than 15in. in girth, was in
the way of the new building, so had to
come out. A very light preliminary push
from the bulldozer and it was stretched
on the ground; but, strangely, it had
not broken off, merely come out of the
ground as neatly as a pulled turnip. We
found it was still “potted”: it had been
planted as it had come from the nursery
—rooted in half an oil-drum. Only two
roots had managed to find a way out of
the heavy-gauge iron container, and they
had crept through drainage-holes punched
in the bottom. The bigger root was no
thicker than a forefinger and barely 9in.
long ; the other was little more than half
that thickness and perhaps 6in. Both
were strangling themselves in the holes
with their own growth. How such an
inadequate root-system succeeded in
obtaining sufficient nourishment to keep
the tree so healthy-looking is one
mystery; another is: How was that
meagre anchorage able to resist the wind
catchment of the tree through the 12 years
that, to my certain knowledge, it stood
there?
WEST BY AIR
Turning out from the coast, the aircraft lifts
Over the heavy cloud-bank’s tossing manes;
A congregation of rain-laden wains
Moved by the horses of the wind; which shifts
Slowly below, behind, while through deep rifts,
Mountains show shadowed faces; but the plains
Beyond are sun-drenched, green from recent
rains,
And toy homesteads are scattered, thin smoke
drifts
Where a toy train stands at a toy rail-head.
But further west it’s parched, patched grey,
brown, red,
Where Cunnamulla’s white roofs gleam ahead,
And, like a tangled ribbon far below,
The devious windings of the Warrego,
Where I droved cattle many years ago.
N.S.W.
HUL TE RANGICRA.
THE GRADER MAN
npHERE’S a hamlet in a valley along
A one of Victoria’s loneliest mountain-
roads that might well be named “Thirty-
Miles From Somewhere.” There’s little
there beyond a pub, school and several
houses, a bit of cleared land and old
goldmine-workings. It’s a base for
cattlemen who graze Herefords over a
vast expanse of bush-country.
It’s about 30 miles of winding, steep
road each way to prosperous farming
districts, with no stopping-place between.
Except when blocked by snow, the road is
a main artery, and the inner half is kept
in order by a road-gang stationed at
“Thirty Miles.”
Lofty worked in the road-gang as
junior of the two offsiders to the truck-
driver for a fair time before he got the
grader job. This was a lift financially, as
well as socially, and it gave Lofty more
scope to display the artistry in his
temperament.
It was soon evident that Lofty must
have been one of the favored few born
to be grader-drivers. The road was
scraped diligently fore and aft by the
huge blade and could have become one
of the showplaces of the C.R.B. but for
a couple of unfortunate happenings.
Lofty lost no time in getting to and
from the stretch he was grading; with
the blade up, he had only one speed—
flat-out. It was a real spectacle to see
him come down the mountain to the pub
at breakneck speed when it drew near to
knock-off time. Lofty took the comers
leaning over like an expert on one roller-
skate.
About this time Lofty, his wife and
year-old child there was another
expected—moved into a cottage on one
of the cattle-runs. He had been kindly
loaned a cow, a bush-bred baldy that
gave yards of milk and no end of trouble.
Lofty used to run the cow in the
orchard-paddock with the calf at night,
after milking her, and leave her out to
graze through the day. This arrange-
ment kept Baldy, her offspring and all
concerned fairly happy for about three
weeks, after which the cow began to show
less interest in the calf and wander
further off. -
One evening, after Lofty had trudged
a mile and back to bring Baldy in for
milking, the cow decided to make-off in
the opposite direction. Mrs. Lofty was
in no condition to run fast and head her
off. Lofty yelled his rage and got on the
grader.
He set out across the paddock in a
wide outflanking arc. As he closed-in,
Baldy clapped on a bit more speed.
Lofty, the family milk-supply now a
minor objective, opened the throttle and
gave wild chase.
Baldy galloped, with the juggernaut
gaining fast. She swerved suddenly into
a large clump of blackberries, and Lofty,
following hard on her heels, just failed
to ram her as she jumped the creek.
Graders don’t jump creeks.
Lofty got out of that hunt with a
host of scratches, a limp and a caution.
The grader was back in service in less
than a fortnight, and things went on
quietly for a time.
Then Lofty, grading down the moun-
tain, hopped off to throw away a stone
that had rolled on to the road. When
he looked up, the grader was moving
away and gaining speed. He failed by
the merest fraction to catch-up and
mount —whether unlucky or not became
a major local argument for some time
thereafter.
Unfortunately, the foreman, on a rare
visit, happened to be driving up the load
at the time the runaway grader was com-
ing down. He spotted it a fair way off,
panicked, and let his car run back till
he clipped the bank with the back mud-
guard. The grader left the road and
ploughed' its way through scrub to the
bottom of the gorge.
Lofty retired from the C.R.B. soon
after, of his own free will, and has taken
up felling for a sawmill.
BARDIE.


ionA lyuAwwM
INTERNATIONAL, NATIONAL OR LOCAL
I
VM.
8
m
V/A
W/A
•///'.'
York
rT*
m
c *
K*** l lA
!!®Jsokono
o **
THK
COMM®®® 1
sos
ov
*l//<W will Wej-ii
BY THIS BANK'S
EFFICIENT, HELPFUL SERVICE
Service to its customers and the wisdom of long experience
are traditions with this Bank, which is owned and staffed by
Australians. The Bank's many service departments are
available to offer advice and help to those who seek it.
At Head Office, or at our branch nearest to you, our
officers will be glad to discuss how the Bank, with its modern
facilities and services, can help you.
mn
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Missing Friend
O’GRADY.—WouId EDMUND O’GRADY,
a son of EDMUND and ELIZA MARY
O’GRADY, who was born on the 29th
February, 1880, or his children, or any
person knowing their present whereabouts,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches ana Agencies throughout
the World.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
SANDERS
Correspondence, invoice*,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted info a
perfect book ol reference at
the end of each month Of
any other period.
Price* ««<* to**
Iter lnlorm»ti«a
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent*—
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTR
Norman Bro*. ***!• *•**
Vardon Price Lto*
Docket Book Cft.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Import-chop for 1956-S7
T»E VISION of the import-
licensing arrangements made
during 1955-56 is one of the first
big changes to herald the open-
ing of the 1956-57 fiscal year.
Licences in category B are
now divided into seven sub-
categories, and “interchange-
ability” in quotas will be
permitted only within sub-
categories. B-quotas, too, will
be cut by 25 p.c. to 331 p.c. of
existing quotas.
Several hundred A-category
items will be cut by from 5 p.c.
to 75 p.c. of quotas operating in
the last quarter of 1955-56.
It is intended to cut imports
by £4O million a year by the
changes. Among items affected
are fully - assembled motor -
vehicles (50 p.c. cut) and
unassembled chassis, engines,
parts, etc., of motor-vehicles (30
p.c.). Washing-machines and
refrigerators are among items
cut back by 90 p.c. of 1954-55
imports ; spark-plugs, motor-car
bodies and lifting-jacks 75 p.c.
on the same basis ; while some
carpets and other floor-coverings
(25 p.c. of final 1955-56 quota),
whisky (25 p.c.), cigarettes (50
p.c.), barbed-wire (80 p.c.), fish
(25 p.c.), bolts, nuts, rivets, nails
(50 p.c.), steel pipes and tubing
(331 p.c.), wire-netting (331 p.c.),
and tools of trade (30 p.c.) figure
prominently in the revisions.
Some Australian manufac-
turers who are unable to com-
pete fully with overseas manu-
facturers will benefit from the
import-cuts. Makers of hand-
tools and other tools have been
feeling the draught already, and
it is up to the Tariff Board to
see that these Australian manu-
facturers put their best efforts
forward to provide satisfactory
products (in quality and price) to
replace the items previously
imported; and to prevent them
indulging in monopolistic prac-
tices. The same applies to bolts,
nuts, etc.
With regard to wire-netting
and steel-tubing, Australian
output has been in excess of
demand since early this year (as
is the case also with galvanised-
iron).
The division of B-category
items into sub-categories may
help to prevent the waste of Aus-
tralia’s overseas funds that has
resulted from the “interchange-
ability” (or roundabout traffick-
ing) in just one B-class category ;
but it is clear that import-
licensing is clumsy and frustrat-
ing (and often self-defeating) in
its operations. It is a very
undesirable (if unavoidable)
method of attempting to balance
a country’s trade, and should
never be used where it is intended
to act as a Protectionist tariff.
In announcing the new quotas,
Treasurer Fadden said that
export-values for 1955-56 were
better than previously expected,
and there had been a consider-
able private-capital inflow, but
that it was risky to rely on the
rate of inflow continuing, or
upon wool-prices remaining at
their present level.
Because of a lag in the effec-
tiveness of import-control,
imports were still coming into
Australia at a high rate.
Share-prices Still Shaky
’yUITH the financial year end-
ing on an uncertain note at
Canberra-level, and with a flood
of good, bad and indifferent
company-accounts soon to be
loosed on investors, the stage is
not yet set for any clear move
(especially upward) by the share-
markets.
Fixed-unit trusts have been a
factor in patchy market-
strengthening recently, but
neither buyers nor sellers are
evident in any volume, and
fluctuations are widespread and
unpredictable.
One thing is evident: the
sharemarket is prepared to pay
for obvious earning-power
buttressed by financial strength
and liquidity. But mere past
dividend-liberality is by no
means a market recommendation
in present circumstances.
Keynes and Interest—Now
IZEYNES theories have in
post-war years been the
subject of Bulletin criticism,
especially his aim of “the
euthanasia of the rentier [or
investor].” It has been the
opinion here that Keynes’s pro-
posals were short-term pallia-
tives only, not long-term
remedies, and were bound to
defeat the more economically
desirable aspects of human
nature.
The First National City Bank
(of New York) has lately re-
opened the subject, especially in
the light of the present trend
towards higher interest-rates. It
mentions the fact that for 50
years savings have been increas-
ingly milked by income-tax and
death-duties, and that the crown-
ing blow was the policy, adopted
20 years ago, of using central
banks to augment loan funds
and drive interest-rates down.
“This was,” it says in particular,
“during the great depression,
when oversaving was allegedly
the cause of unemployment and
falling prices. The celebrated
British economist, J. M. Keynes,
seeking full employment, re-
jected the principle that people
neded rewards for saving....
He prescribed ‘euthanasia’ for
the rentier: painless death for
people living on interest.”
The bank discusses the wide
influence of Keynes’s policies,
most notably in countries inclin-
ing towards Socialism, but also
in the United States. The break
from the old gold-standard,
initiated by the U.K. in 1931 and
followed by the U.S.A. in 1934,
permitted cheap-money policies
to be carried to a lethal extent.
Conservative investors saw their
incomes shrink endlessly, and
were driven to live off capital.
Now, because of acute infla-
tionary problems, the retreat
from cheap money has been
dramatic, especially in the U.K.,
where the bank-rate has leapt to
51 p.c. (from 2 p.c. in 1951). But
elsewhere in the world, including
the United States, Canada and
Australia, the rise in interest-
rates has steadily been going on
as well.
“These changes,” says the
First National City Bank, “repre-
sent belated official recognition
of the injustice done the saver
and the need for saving to finance
economic growth and to main-
tain economic stability. Savings
are the raw-material out of
which people get the mortgage-
money to finance the purchase
of homes, Governments get
funds to cover deficits, and—
last but not least —industry gets
wherewithal to build plants and
provide tools and machinery for
workmen to use.”
The upward turn in interest-
rates has come at a time when
the need for saving is painfully
apparent—when we have had
overspending and underinvest-
ment. “Communal saving
through the agency of the State,”
as advocated by Keynes, has
been a failure. Saving, in a
democracy, must be made volun-
tarily by the people, and, in order
to encourage saving, thrift must
have its adequate rewards and
safeguards.
As it turns out, the upturn in
interest-rates required only a
decision of Governments to stop
trying to drive them down.
Natural forces of the market
then took over. In the U.S.A.
the normal trend is towards
higher interest-rates for borrow-
ing money in an economy where
income-taxes are high and pro-
gressive, where deflations to the
benefit of creditors are rarely, if
ever, permitted, and where the
cards are thus stacked against
the lender of money at interest.
But a Government policy of
inflation in order to keep
interest-rates down eventually
results in higher interest-rates
than would prevail under a stable
currency.
Ever since World War II
people have been increasingly
mortgaging their future incomes
to enjoy today what will be
earned tomorrow. Homebuilding
costs have been stimulated as a
result. This cost-inflation
doubled the need for finance to
build, and also tempted people
to buy a home as quickly as
possible with the biggest possible
mortgage. A well-bought home,
financed on a small equity, under
inflation become a bonanza
investment. Businesses which
were expanding had the same
experience. Interest being a tax-
able deduction, industry was
tempted to borrow at low
interest-rates instead of raising
fresh shareholders’ capital.
But nobody can fool all the
people all the time, and economic
laws are usually remorseless.
Investors have become increas-
ingly interest-conscious, and
have been avoiding Government
loans and mortgages, etc., pre-
ferring to try their luck in
industrial ordinary shares. The
First National City Bank puts
it that “a not-uncommon view
is that we are in an age of infla-
tion where good common stocks
[ordinary shares] are more con-
servative for long-term holding
than Government bonds, par-
ticularly since Governments
‘guarantee’ [through full-employ-
ment policies] that there will be
no more depressions and defla-
tions.”
It adds that the future of
interest-rates depends more than
anything on confidence in the
value of a nation’s currency.
Rates can be held down by
balancing Budgets, easing
income-taxes, letting borrowers
experience difficulties in raising
funds when credit-demands surge
beyond availabilities of savings-
fiows and normal growth, and
inducing people to rely more on
their own money and less on
the other fellow’s.
“If the saver can trust the
future value of the money he
is lending he will be satisfied
with a moderate return. If he
loses faith, as experiences with
extreme inflation teach, he will
demand exorbitant rates —or
denude the market of loan funds
by fleeing to equities.”
Increasing Productivity
pROM “K.Mc.”: It would
mean political suicide for
any Government party which
extended standard working-
hours, as “M.F.D.” advises
(B. 6/6/’56). Very few Aus-
tralian workers yet feel con-
cerned about the national well-
being ; their concern is for their
own immediate welfare. They
lack the foresight to realise that
by producing more they ensure
their own prosperity, and any
Government which dared to
increase their hours or reduce
their wages would be routed at
the first opportunity.
It is the employers who should
make the move. They have been
complaining that employees have
been averaging only 361 hours
actual working-time. The
Federal Department of Labor’s
advisory council recently
reported that the average annual
working-hours were probably
“shorter in Australia than in any
other industrialised country.” In
the first move for higher produc-
tion the onus should be on
employers to see that their
employees work the full 40 hours
a week.


London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
\fR. HAROLD MACMIL-
LAN made a point, when
some of us entertained him at
lunch the other day, that is
incontrovertible. If you profess
to be a democrat, he said, you
must tackle your problems in a
democratic way. Referring to
the present crisis (a word, of
course, he sedulously avoided),
he ruled-out both the despotic
central power of totalitarianism
and the crippling rigidity of
Socialist controls. You simply
had to use persuasion first and
work patiently and assiduously
towards fulfilment of your
objective . . .
This line of approach imposes
a heavy strain on a Chancellor.
Economic affairs are not easy to
explain or to understand.
Specific money-saving measures
in the near future (defence per-
haps?) must be kept in the dark.
The basic factors have been
repeated so often that they tend
to become platitudes. And,
worst of all, continued exhorta-
tion (as over wage-claims) can
have a provoking effect instead
of a moderating one.
Nevertheless, there, is a firm-
ness discernible beneath the
Government’s apparent slackness
of grip, and it may well be that
the next few months will mark
a change in fortune, leading up
to a critical phase in the
autumn.
The trade figures for May look
well and gratifyingly different,
even if they are subject to quali-
fication. Mr. Macmillan is
believed to have achieved his
saving of £lOO million in Gov-
ernment expenditure, and there
are rumors of a substantial cut
in defence, perhaps as much as
a third (£5OO million). The
nationalised industries, too often
the hub of inflationary pressure,
are under special scrutiny.
But the major effort remains
to steady our lopsided and split-
personality economy and in how
to cope with the industries that
are doing too well, competing
for labor and unconcernedly
passing the costs on to the
customer. That is why autumn
may be critical. For the effects
of the “squeeze” may make it
impossible for employers to
grant the substantial wage-
increases being asked for. This
may lead to other anxieties, the
bulk of which will have to be
borne by the Minister of Labor
and his negotiators.
Meanwhile, a by-election in
“safe” Tonbridge has revealed
a drop in the Conservative vote
of 9000 (to Labor’s 412), leaving
a majority of only 1600. This
amounts to an expression of “no
confidence” from the party’s
traditional middle - class sup-
porters and has fired sympa-
thetic demonstrations throughout
the country.
Disquieting as it must be, the
effect can only increase the
Government’s resolve to level-
out the economy, keep prices
down and, ultimately, to reduce
taxation. Otherwise it must lose
—and lose heavily—the next
election.
Posthumous Saving
To buy equity-shares to cover
the payment of school-fees in n
years’ time seems to be a very
good idea. For the probable
appreciation of the one will
certainly help towards meeting
the more-than-probable increases
of the other.
An obscure paragraph in the
financial press has proved, on
investigation, that this is pre-
cisely what, in fact, many
parents are doing. And it has
become possible because, two
years ago, the most progressive
of our unit-trust companies
introduced a “thrift plan,”
whereby subscribers could take
up an interest in equity-shares
by monthly instalments.
Although the company doesn’t
actively seek business, the
venture has proved so successful
as to lead to another innovation,
surely unique in the money-
market. A subscriber is now
able to ensure that “his inten-
tions to build-up his savings-
account over a number of years
would not be frustrated by his
untimely death.”
That is to say, he effects a
temporary life - policy under
which the sum-assured decreases
each year by the amount of his
intended annual
and the company, in association
with a life-office, advances the
premiums by debiting his
account.
Good Measure
There isn’t a play in London
as well - stocked with old
familiars as N. Richard Nash’s
“The Rainmaker” (St. Martin’s
Theatre).
Its theme is an old double-
sided favorite—ugly duckling
plus inexperienced - maiden’s-
transformation-after-infatuation-
with-experienced-man. She is a
plain Jane (or, more correctly,
Lizzie) surrounded by men: an
old father, kindly but weak ; a
dominating elder brother ; a
crushed younger brother who
triumphantly comes into his
own; a hesitant suitor who
frightens himself into rudeness
an d gaucherie; and a Mysterious
Stranger who accomplishes so
much between a sensational
entrance at dusk and a dramatic-
ally sudden exit in the small
hours of the same night.
Such a play might easily be-
come stifled by cliches. But not
this one. It is pure delight, and
fresh as the rain that everybody
is waiting for. If the ostensible
situation (a hick farm out west,
parched and harried by drought)
is overstretched almost to
absurdity, the construction is
skilful and the writing at times
comments eloquently upon mun-
dane but neglected aspects of
living.
But the success of the evening
is largely because of the accomp-
lished production and due to the
inspired acting of the main part.
Treated too seriously, the play
would be ponderous, and, if too
flippantly, grotesque. Jack
Minster and Sam Wanamaker
achieve the difficult mean, a
heart - warming make - believe.
Their production has many
gradations, from heavy violence
to idyllic tenderness ; it sustains
well the atmosphere of dry heat
and brilliantly evokes the rough
masculinity which city-dwellers
expect of open spaces.
The part of the father has
more substance to it than
Wilfrid Lawson’s grimacing
diffidence suggests, and the
American accents are somewhat
odd. Wanamaker plays the
Mysterious Stranger (a con.-man
with the braggadocio of an
Ancient Pistol and the psycho-
logical awareness of a Freud)
with ripe assurance. Geraldine
Page’s Lizzie is that rare
theatrical occurrence, an over-
night sensation. Here is superb
realistic acting within make-
believe; an intelligent country
lass who, while wanting a hus-
band, is too strong-willed to
affect simpering ways and too
honest with herself to set a
subtle cap.
American folk-songs, sung
from the pit between changes of
the multiple set, are charmingly
in keeping with tbe mood of the
play.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO. LTD.
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS HELD IN MELBOURNE
ON FRIDAY, JUNE 22, 1956
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Annual Meeting, Mr. C. Y. Syme said:
During the year the major work
on the Victorian Wool Store at West
Footscray was completed and the
builders are now engaged in finish-
ing internal fittings, and equipment.
Much of the new space has been
in use for some months, and we have
already received many favorable
comments from clients and the
buying trade. The Store challenges
comparison with any in Australia.
The modernising of Sydney office
has now reached an advanced stage,
and a large proportion of the antici-
pated cost had been met by the end
of the year under review. Progress
has also been made with similar
work at Melbourne office. We expect
to complete both projects in the
current year, and also to make a
further addition to our Fremantle
wool store to assist in servicing
the steady increase in the West Aus-
tralian clip.
Balance Sheet:
Advances to clients show a very
marked increase, but once again the
greater quantity of unsold wool on
hand is a significant factor in this
—the carry forward of nearly 100,000
bales being 33,000 bales higher than
last year. In addition, because of
the effect of shipping delays follow-
ing the wharf strike, we had
approximately 37,000 more bales sold
and awaiting settlement at March 31
than at the corresponding date last
year. These figures give some idea
of the strain placed on the industry
by any interruption in the prompt
and efficient disposal of the wool
clip. Fortunately much of the wool
referred to above has now been sold
and paid for, and advances have
consequently been somewhat reduced
since the balance date. However, the
requirements of our clients continue
on a heavier scale than in the past.
Profit and Loss Account:
As indicated in the report accom-
panying the annual accounts, the
major cause of the reduction in
profit this year is the reduced earn-
ings from our stations. For some
years now the size of our wool clip
has been falling as resumptions from
our Western Division properties took
effect, but until the year under re-
view this was subsequently offset by
sales of sheep at satisfactory prices.
Stockholders have been warned for
some years of this position. We do
not anticipate that station profits
will in the future be further affected
by these resumptions.
It is somewhat of a paradox that
sheep prices have averaged higher
than during the preceding year, de-
spite the fall in the wool market.
Because of the phenomenal growth
caused by the record rains, many
farmers and graziers have bought
extra stock to assist in keeping feed
within bounds, because otherwise it
would become rank and useless. In
many districts this demand has
pushed prices for store stock above
their economic value. Our stock
commissions have been rather higher
than last year, but wool commissions
are down following the lower price,
in spite of the considerably in-
creased quantity sold in the year.
The rise in salaries and wages re-
sults from the higher rates follow-
ing the margins decision, which
applied for practically the whole
year, and other expenses are up fol-
lowing the associated rises in the
costs of supplies and services. Un-
fortunately, there is little evidence
yet that these rises have been
checked. During the year we spent
an unusually large amount on replac-
ing or repairing buildings and equip-
ment.
Last year I drew your attention
to the fact that we are taxed on
more than our true profit—no allow-
ance being granted for depreciation
on wool stores and most other build-
ings. We regret that the Govern-
ment has not moved in this matter,
in spite of . the recommendation of
the Hulme Commission.
The provision of capital necessary
for development, replacement and
improved efficiency will be detri-
mentally affected by the recently an-
nounced increase in company taxa-
tion rates. Capital is urgently re-
quired to service the needs of our
rapidly growing population. Savings
are depleted, and overseas investors
discouraged, by the system of levy-
ing tax on dividends in the hands
of stockholders when those dividends
have been paid from profits already
taxed in the hands of the company.
The Wool Market:
Wool prices improved steadily
during the season. The demand
has been good, notwithstanding
serious interruption in the selling
programme. The first delay occurred
in February last, due to the Com-
monwealth-wide waterfront strike,
involving some 243,000 bales. This
was followed in April by the cancel-
lation of a full series of sales in
Brisbane (representing 67,000 bales),
as a result of the members of the
Storemen and Packers’ Union re-
fusing to handle wool declared
“black” by the Queensland branch of
the Australian Workers’ ~TJnion.
Plans were then made to offer
greater quantities in May and June
in an attempt to make up lost
ground.
Since April values have risen—for
Merinos and fine comebacks from
123% to 15%, and for other grades
from 5% to 73%. This improvement
in the market at the close of the
season makes for optimism regard-
ing the opening of the 1956-57
season.
Sustained buying by Japan has
undoubtedly been a favorable factor,
and the stability of the market
throughout the season has en-
couraged buyers generally to operate
freely, resulting in satisfactory
clearances.
The present season average (11
months) is expected to be the lowest
since 1948-49, when the figure was
48.07 d. per lb. greasy. Average
prices realised for greasy wool in
the Commonwealth for recent seasons
compare as under:—
1951- .. .. 72.42 d.
1952- .. .. 81.80 d.
1953- .. .. 82.16 d.
1954- .. .. 70.88 d.
1955- .. .. 61.14 d.
* 11 months.
It is estimated that a little over
4,200,000 bales of wool will be re-
ceived into brokers’ stores this
season, compared with just under
4.000,000 bales last season. This con-
tinued increase in the size of the
clip is due largely to the following
factors:—
1. A decade of generally favorable
seasons has built up soil fertility
and carrying capacity.
2. Improved methods of mechanised
farming and more skilful applica-
tion of fertilisers and trace ele-
ments have brought previously un-
productive land into use.
3. Improved pasture and irrigation
areas devoted to carrying sheep
are increasing.
4. Effect of myxomatosis in reducing
rabbit numbers.
However, in regard to myxoma-
tosis a warning note must be
sounded. Reports from some dis-
tricts indicate that this method of
control is losing much of its effec-
tiveness. It is imperative that there
should be an intensification of other
well-known measures, such as re-
pairing netting fences, poisoning,
fumigating and ripping, to ensure
that the rabbit menace does not be-
come serious again.
The extremely wet conditions in
many parts of Australia have re-
sulted in a marked increase in fOot-
rot and disease amongst the flocks.
These factors, and the delayed shear-
ing in Queensland particularly, could
have an adverse effect on the incom-
ing clip.
Although purchases by the United
Kingdom did not reach the figures
of the previous season she still re-
tains her position as leading buyer
of the Commonwealth clip.
Consumption of wool tops in China
has been of considerable assistance
to mills in the United Kingdom.
China has proved the second largest
wool top customer of Great Britain,
Canada being the largest. The open-
ing of this Chinese market has
bolstered demand appreciably and is
one of the factors influencing the
comparatively high prices being
realised for crossbred wools.
It is possible that Japan this
season could acquire from the Com-
monwealth a greater quantity of
wool than in any other season since
the war. The Japanese Ministry of
Trade estimates that imports of raw
wool from all sources will amount to
700,000 bales for the year ended
March 31, 1950.
France, the largest Continental
customer, was a consistent buyer
and, as her inquiry covers a wide
range of wools, it represents valu-
able support. Italy, particularly on
superfine Merinos, as well as
Belgium, Federal German Republic
and other adjacent countries, also
contributed to the general demand.
Although America purchased less
raw wool at auction this season, it
is of interest to note that she con-
tinued to import processed wool from
many countries.
Australian mills gave their usual
support over a wide range of types.
Once again there was no evidence
of direct Russian purchasing. Indian
mills continue to show increased in-
terest in Australian tops and this
country offers another potential out-
let.
Company’s Own Properties:
Seasonal conditions on our stations
were again favorable during the
first half of the year under review.
From February onwards, excessive
rain has been experienced and flood-
ing occurred in all watercourses.
Growth of summer feed has been ab-
normally prolific and rank, with the
result that worms have been more
than usually difficult to control.
Lambing results for the year have
been above average except in
Queensland. Stock are all in good
condition and prospects for the
spring are bright.
Wool is showing some effect from
the excessive rain. Blowflies were
active during the autumn and the
limiting of control measures,
brought about by the continuous wet
weather, has been reflected in losses
somewhat' higher than normal.
The Season:
From good to excessive rains have
now fallen in all States, though in-
land pastoral areas in West Aus-
tralia and the country north of the
transcontinental railway, in South
Australia, have remained dry
throughout the year. Overall the
season can be considered satisfac-
tory and stock are generally in good
condition. A favorable winter is in
dicated.
The heavy rains in the eastern
States have resulted in prolific
growth of pastures and more foot-
rot than normal. Much of the feed
lias become rank and led to worm
infestation. This pest has been the
cause of losses amongst young sheep.
Reference should be made to
western and southern Queensland
and the north, north-west and
western areas of New South Wales,
where serious flooding caused heavy
stock losses and damage to im-
provements. Bathurst and Noogoora
burr have become intensified by
flood waters, the wet conditions
making control measures difficult,
even impossible in many areas. De-
spite these setbacks and the effects
of the shearing strike referred to
elsewhere, many holdings are carry-
ing increased numbers of stock.
This can be attributed principally
to the flush season, average to better
than average lambings and the re-
duced numbers of rabbits. Modern
insecticides have also helped to keep
the blowfly in check.
General:
The cautionary words used by
the Full Arbitration Court in their
recent judgment highlight the de-
pendence of the Australian economy
on exports. Although exports are
but a part of our total national in-
come, they are a vital part, as they
provide the currency to purchase
essential raw materials and equip-
ment not at present produced eco-
nomically in Australia.
Again I would draw attention to
the serious effect on the whole
country of strikes hindering the pro-
duction or transport of export goods,
such as the wharf strike early in
the year and the current shearers’
strike against the decisions of the
Arbitration Court. Efficiency of pro-
duction over a wide range of goods
is affected and may quickly reduce
employment in many industries.
The Australian income for next
financial year is already being re-
duced by the effects of the shearing
strike. Some millions of sheep are
now carrying over 12 months’ wool
and this is particularly undesirable
in a season such as the present.
Over-length wool depreciates in
value, fleece rot is prevalent in some
areas and sheep are being lost
through bogging under the weight
of their heavy soaked fleeces. These
losses, which fall primarily on the
grazier, will soon affect the com-
munity generally. In the most ad-
vanced overseas countries employees,
like employers, recognise that they
can only be prosperous if the
country is prosperous. There are
indications that this fact is slowly
gaining recognition in Australia and
it should lead to more co-operative
relationships in industry.
In spite of a run of phenomenally
good seasons and the outstanding
success of myxomatosis, which, to-
gether with increased efficiency,
have lifted the volume of primary
production, we are still in trouble
with our balance of payments. This
is evidence of an unsatisfactory
condition in the economy. In addi-
tion, of course, the increased tempo
of inflation, which was checked in
1952, is most disturbing.
The urgent need remains for
manufacturing industries to seek and
hold new overseas markets by in-
creased efficiency and greater energy.
This has been strongly stressed
officially. Whilst Government action
can be of assistance, our economic
future can be secured only by in-
creasing output and thereby reduc-
ing costs.
Staff:
Again, this year many of our
officers have had to overcome real
difficulties to produce the results now
before you. It is my pleasure to
record the thanks of the board for
the excellent work done by the staff
in the many areas where the com-
pany carries on business.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd.
■pINALITY in the negotiations for the
sale of the Burns, Philp subsidiary,
Penneys, Ltd., to G. J. Coles and Co.,
Ltd., has been announced, although
details of the amount involved and the
form of payment have yet to be made
public. All 48 of the co.’s stores (about
10 of them are located in N.S.W., the
rest in Queensland) will be transferred
to Coles, but the use of Penneys’ name
has been reserved to Burns, Philp. Paid
capital of Penneys at June 30 stood at
£1,787,534 (all held by 8.P.), on which it
disclosed a profit of £161,338 and paid
a 10 p.c. div.
The deal is an interesting one, since
Penneys formed an important part of
Burns, Philp’s merchandising interests on
which the co. has put considerably more
emphasis since the end of the war. The
other subsidiaries, occupied mainly in
trading and plantation-owning, are Burns
Philp (New Guinea), Burns Philp (South
Sea) and its New Hebrides offshoot,
Burns Philp Co. of San Francisco,
Parramatta retailer Murray Bros., and
Burns Philp Trust Co., Ltd. The parent
company is shipowner and investment-co.,
and through its branches in Australia,
New Zealand and the U.K. it engages in
retail and wholesale trading. It also has a
number of country stores in N.S.W.
which were not included in the deal with
Coles.
Because prices for copra have been
guaranteed under the British Ministry of
Food’s contract with growers in British
possessions, the most remunerative sec-
tion of the business has been the co.’s
plantations (of which there are more than
40 scattered through New Guinea and
the Islands), but the outlook after next
year, when the contract is due to run out,
isn’t clear. Planters will then have to
dispose of their production on the open
market, where copra prices have lately
been lower than contract.
A very good year was reported for
the American subsidiary last term, but the
Australian and N,Z. branch-operations
proved less profitable, although sales were
up.
Reviewing B.P.’s shipping activities,
chairman James Burns says the co. is
“not making anything to replace old
tonnage,” but as the services form a
necessary part of the co.’s activities it will
run ships as long as it is allowed. In order
to lose as little money as possible, how-
ever, it has been decided to restrict opera-
tion to cargo-ships only. Even so, says the
chairman, if cargo-loading is delayed
because of bad weather, the costs incurred
by a vessel may be such that freight
earned is often practically absorbed
before the ship leaves port.
Including the earnings of the sub-
sidiaries to the extent of dividends
received, and after setting aside £250,000
for tonnage-replacement (now £750,000),
£50,000 against the future cost of new
buildings, and writing-off £391,784 (up
£158,498) for depreciation and an
unspecified amount for taxation the co.
disclosed a net profit last term (its 73rd
since incorporation) of £499,293:
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1951. • 885,684 12£p.c. = 250,000 1 gg oci a (54ft 204
To staff fund, £70,420 f 65,264 4,646,204
Unexplained reduction, £85,380 4,660,824
1952. • 408,125 12£p.c. = 296,875 ( q- oao 4 aqa Aft 4
To staff fund, £76,390 f 35,860 4,596,684
Unexplained addition, £284,631.. 4,881,315
1963.. 378,162 10 p.c. = 287,486 \ 65,870 4,947,185
To staff fund, £24,796 j
To replacement re., etc., £430,231 5,377,416
1954.. 394,418 10 p.c. = 299,993 1 gn gng g a 45 745
Staff fund, £25,096 ..J 69,329 5,446,745
Unexplained additions, £324,121 5,770,866
1955. . 477,116 10 p.c. = 300,000 t -tno 07A 5 923 142
To staff fund, £24,840.. y 162,276 5,9-3,142
To replacement res., £300,000.. 6,223,142
Net addition reserves, £518,761.. 6,741,903
1956.. 499,293 10 p.c. = 325,000 (. . , s , aon
To staff fund, £25,870 J 1*8,423 6,890,326
Up £22,177 on the previous year, the
£499,293 was equal to 15.4 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 15.9 p.c. in
1955, 13.1, 13.1, 17.2 and 19.3
p.c. back to 1951. The distribu-
tion to shareholders was main-
tained at 10 p.c., at which rate, or above,
it has been since 1919. After transferring
a bad-debts provision of £275,363, now
deducted from debtors, there was a net
addition to reserves of £518,761, repre-
sented mainly by contingencies provisions
made in past years which were considered
no longer necessary or more than were
needed.
Transfer of these provisions also helps
to explain why current liabilities (down
£820,952 to £3,264,200) and debtors
(down £184,172 to £1,553,990) appear
lower in last year’s balance-sheet.
Addition to the fleet of the Tulagi,
designed mainly for the inter-island trade,
shows up in a net increase after deprecia-
tion of £272,778 to properties and ship-
ping. Another vessel of about 4000 tons
is on order in Norway for delivery next
November:
1964. 1955. 1956.
Capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,500,000
Reserves .. 6,446,745 5,923,142 6,890,326
Creditors, etc. 4,285,447 4,085,152 3,264,200
Final dividends 160,000 150,000 175,000
£12,882,192 £13,158,294 £13,829,526
Properties and
shipping .. 1,919,260 1,718,064 1,990,842
Investments* .. 7,326,564 7,496,653 7,989,787
Stocks, etc. .. 1,635,042 1,992,629 2,047,2'41
Debtors .. 1,647,333 1,738,162 1,553,990
Cash .. .. 354,003 212,880 247,666
£12,882,192 £13,158,294 £18.829,626
* Includes an unstated amount Govt, bonds.
A one-for-three issue at par lifted sub-
scribed capital by £1,000,000, of which
£500,000 had come in by the end of the
term. The balance is due by September
30 next. Shareholdings in subsidiary and
other companies and Government loans,
in at cost or cost, less depreciation at
£7,989,787, increased £493,234. Invest-
ments in other cos. include shares in
Queensland Insurance Co. and Bankers
and Traders’ Insurance Co., two com-
panies sponsored by B.P.
At 51s. the f.-p. £1 shares show an
immediate return of only 3.9 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. The lOs.-paid shares are
quoted at 38s. When the contribs. are
paid up cover provided by net tangibles
will be 545. 6d. a share.
Cottee’s Passiona, Ltd.
PRODUCING jams, jellies and other
grocery, confectionery and milkbar
lines, Cottee’s Passiona, Ltd., also holds
a substantial interest in franchised com-
panies bottling and aerating Passiona and
other Cottee’s fruit-juices. Factories are
now operating in all mainland capitals,
production in Adelaide and Perth com-
mencing prior to the last summer
season.
Although the shares of the co. have
been listed on the ’Change for only
four years, the business has been operat-
ing since 1927, providing dividends at
the comfortable average of 17.8 p.c.
for the eleven years prior to listing.
Distributions over the past four years
have been maintained at 15 p.c., with a
1 p.c. bonus added in 1954.
The issue last September of 46,700 £1
ords. lifted paid capital to £315,000, of
which £85,000 represents bonus-issues in
1949 and 1953. Redeemable 5 p.c.
preference shares to a face-value of
£65,000 are held by the A.M.P. Society.
Continued growth and prosperity are
shown in the last accounts. Sales and
profits are at record levels, and, in spite
of capital-increases, the ratio of profits
to ordinary shares (after pref. div.), rose
to 31.5 p.c., as against 29.1, 26.9 and
20.9 p.c. in the three preceding years. For
the year ended March, ’56, the return on
total shareholders’ funds equalled 16.4
p.c. Profit rose by £21,348 to £83,075:
f Dividends — —,
Prefs. Ord.
6 & 8 To Re- Re-
March, Profit, p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Revaluation assets, £65,000 .. .. 157,896
Reserves capitalised, £65,000 .. .. 92,896
1953 .. 34,961 3,514 16 p.c. =22,500 8,947 101,843
1954 .. 43,893 3,514 16 „ ~24,000 16,379 118,222
1955 . . 61,727 3,514 15 „ ~30,000 28,213 146,435
5 p.c.
1956 .. 83,076 3,260 15 .. ~35,165 44,660 191,095
Profit is shown after the provision of
£67,000 (up £19,000) for taxation and
£22,408 (up £1483) for depreciation.
Reserves gained £44,660 from the year’s
activities, while dividends took £38,415, or
46.2 p.c. of the profits.
Expansion of the co. is also indicated
by a further rise of £91,000 in total
assets, fixed assets increasing by £21,538
and stocks by £11,324.
Debtors at £209,479 are up £56,658 on
the previous year, while the bank-over-
draft has been reduced substantially.
Funds enabling these movements came
mainly from new capital and undis-
tributed profits, together with an increase
of £24,609 in creditors and accruals:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £68,300 £68,300 £65,000
Ord 150,000 200,000 250,000
Reserves 118,222 146,435 191,095
Mortgage .. .. 35,960 34,603 33,184
Overdraft .. .. 87,144 118,665 52,954
Creditors .. .. 75,335 87,541 112,150
Tax provision .. ..' 66,452 80,277 1it,658
Final div 18,267 21,757 26,625
£619,670 £757,578 £848,666
Freeholds and leaseholds 181,584 205,415 203,047
Plant, etc 127,214 153,577 177,483
Shares in franchised cos. 15,849 15,850 15,850
Stock 187,456 227,095 238,419
Debtors 104,804 152,821 209,479
Cash, etc 2,763 2,820 4,388
£619,670 £757,578 £848,666
The decrease of £65,711 in the secured
overdraft leaves shareholders’ funds
accounting for 59.6 p.c. of the balance-
sheet total, compared with 54.7 p.c. in
1955. The tangible-asset backing for
the f.-p. ords. amounts to 355. 3d., the
market pricing them at 38 s. 6d. At this
level a yield of 7.8 p.c. would follow a
continued 15 p.c. div.
With the co.’s products well established
the present satisfactory return should be
maintained. The franchised bottling cos.
appear to be holding their own in a highly
competitive market, while at the same
time making some contribution to the
income of the parent.
Gordon & Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
STRONG reserves and consistently
good earnings provide the basis for
the popularity G. and G. shares enjoy in
the market. The partnership of Alexander
Gordon and John Gotch in 1853 was the
beginning of an organisation now operat-
ing throughout Australia and New Zea-
land, profitably utilising assets in excess
of £4 million. Importing books, paper,
periodicals and printers’ requisites, with
a large turnover of Australian publica-
tions as well, the co.’s activities
extend to the wholesale-newsagency
and advertising fields. While import-
restrictions limit development in
some directions, imports of printing-
machinei'y are so severely cut
that they contribute little to earnings.
The first supplies of New Zealand news-
print were handled during the year, and
were well received by the trade, though
quantities were not up to original
estimates.
During the past six years bonus-shares
have been issued to the value of £475,000,
a cash-issue in 1955 added £324,549,
bringing the total paid-up capital to
£1,399,549, of which the 8 p.c. ss. cumu-
lative prefs. account for £lOO,OOO.
A successful year (ending March) is
indicated by the last published accounts,
with both turnover and profit above the
level of the previous term. After pro-
viding £199,095 for taxation and allowing
£26,396 (up £3590) for depreciation, pro-
fit rose by £29,311 to £339,972, giving a
return of 12.2 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
and a shade under 26.1 p.c. on ords. after
pref. div. Reserves gained £93,721,
while dividends called for £246,250, or
72.4 p.c. of the net profit:
Year f Dividends ——
Ended Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Mch., Profit. 8 p.e. Ordinary, serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1950 ..152,449 8000 20 100,000 44,449 593,969
Rev’uation land & buildings, £125,241 719,210
Capitalised, £150,000 .. .. 569,210
1951 ..172,185 8000 20 130,000 34,185 603,395
1952 . .227,795 8000 20 130,000 89,795 693,190
1953 . .182,679 8000 22$ 146,250 28,329 721,519
From stock reserve, £276,000 .. 996,519
From bad debts reserve, £43,000 .. 1,039,519
From tax reserve, £56,263 ~ .. 1,095,782
Revaluation reserve, £325,000 .. 1,420,782
1954 ..299,246 8000 25 162,500 128,745 1,549,527
From provisions, £10,883 .. .. 1,560,410
Reserves capitalised, £325,000 .. 1,235,410
1965 . .310,661 8000 18$ 238,244 64,417 1,299,827
1956 ..339,972 8000 18$ 238,250 93,721 1,393,548
The profits of Gordon and Gotch (N.Z.),
Ltd., are included only to the extent of
dividends received (£58,280), as are the
profits of other subsidiaries. In the
accounts for the year ended January last,
profit of the N.Z. offshoot rose by over
£5OOO to £88,882, reserves standing at
£111,668.
The increase in debtors of £122,569
to £1,475,109 reflects current trends and
is accompanied by higher stocks, up
£109,670 at £1,024,438. Despite these
increases, there was an overall drop in
current assets, part of the large holding
of Consols and cash being absorbed in
business-expansion. The use of these
funds would have contributed to the addi-
tion of £105,647 made to the value of land
and premises, which are now stated at
£809,095. Cash and bonds still amount
to the substantial sum of £258,301,
current assets comprising 77.8 p.c. of the
total assets:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £1,399,549 £1,399,549
Reserves .. .. 1,549,527 1,299,827 1,393,648
Creditors .. .. 664,911 832,848 861,621
Tax reserve .. 144,925 284,979 200,426
Final divs. .. 101,500 123,125 123,125'
£3,210,863 £3,940,328 £3,978,269
Freeholds .. 668,251 703,448 809,095
Plant, etc. . . 61,429 77,692 74,541
Shares subsid. .. 336,785 336,785 336,785
Stock .. .. 800,759 914,768 1,024,438
Book debts .. 1,119,374 1,352,540 1,475,109
Cash, etc 234,265 655,095 258,301
£3,210,863 £3,940,328 £3,978,269
With disclosed reserves now totalling
£1,393,548, shareholders’ funds at
£2,793,097 represent 70 p.c. of balance-
sheet totals. Expansion is continuing with
new warehouses at Brisbane and Perth
nearing completion ; the proceeds from
the sale of existing premises in those
cities are expected to cover the balance of
construction - costs. Plans are well
advanced for new premises in Hobart,
and land for future building has been
acquired in Launceston.
Firmly entrenched in its various fields
of activity, G. and G. can face the diffi-
culties of import-restrictions, freight-
charges and rising expenses from a posi-
tion of financial strength. The market
prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at 17s. 9d., to
return 5.2 p.c. on the current 18| p.c.
div. Both prefs. (rarely seen on the
market) and ords. rank equally as to
capital, the visible net tangible cover
(parent’s accounts only) amounting to
less than a farthing under 10s.
Lowes, Ltd.
AUGHT between mounting overhead
costs and faltering turnover, net
profit of Lowes, Ltd., men’s and boys’
tailors and outfitters, contracted abruptly
in the 1956 term to almost 29 p.c. below
the previous year’s £77,561. Chief factors
accounting for the bigger overhead were
higher wages and substantially heavier
local-government rates on the co.’s free-
hold properties.
The business caters for the middle- and
lower-income groups and operates from
a chain of 11 stores, of which nine are
in and around Sydney and the others in
the industrial centres of Newcastle and
Wollongong.
The public became interested in the
co. in 1948, when, to finance expansion,
150,000 new ss. shares were offered for
subscription at a premium of 12s. 6d.
each. That lifted paid capital to £142,298,
and bonus share-issues in 1949 and August
last year brought it to the present figure
of £455,354. Employees have been issued
with' 155,840 workers’ shares, which have
no capital-value or voting-rights, but rank
equally with other capital for dividends.
To finance last term’s one-for-one issue
the co. capitalised part of a reserve of
£324,014 created by writing-up the value
of freeholds to the latest V.-G. figure. The
div.-rate was halved to 10 p.c. (or 20 p.c.
on old capital), which the smaller earn-
ings cleared without too much to spare:
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. , Dividends serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949 .. 57,206 20 p.c. = 25,469 31,737 312,600
Capitalisation of reserves, £85,379 .. 227,221
From inner reserves, £BO3 .. .. 228,024
1950 .. 43,127 15 p.c. = 36,234 9,893 237,917
1951 ~ 65,339 17* „ „ 42,272 23,067 260,984
Net reduction reserves, £3038 .. 257,946
1952 .. 47,126 15 p.c. = 37,008 10,118 268,064
1953 .. 44,412 15 „ „ 36,968 7,444 275,508
Tax overprovided, £6500 .. .. 282,008
Unexplained addition, £32 .. .. 282,040
1954 .. 62,602 17*p.c.= 43,037 19,565 301,605
1955 . . 77,561 20 „ „ 49,129 28,432 330,037
Assets revalued, £324,014 .. .. 654,051
Reserves capitalised, £227,677 .. 426,374
1956 .. 55,175 10 p.c.= 49,438 5,737 432,111
Written after setting aside £705 less
(£5751) for depreciation and providing
an extra £5OOO for taxation, the £55,175
represented 11.2 p.c. on paid capital and
employees’ shares combined. The co.
points out, though, that items of a non-
recurring nature involved a considerable
amount of expenditure.
To modernise the head-office freehold,
running through from George-street to
Pitt-street, near the Town Hall, in
Sydney, and the Oxford-street store the
co. leant more on bank- and trade-credit
and lightened stocks:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. .. £227,677 £227,677 £455,354
Reserves .. .. 301,605 330,037 432,112
Overdraft .. .. 2,036 16,974
Creditors .. .. 120,112 112,781 125,109
Provision for tax, etc. 61,334 84,717 88,628
Staff funds .. .. 27,112 32,112 35,485
Final dividend .. 24,573 27,640 24,716
£762,413 £817,000 £1,178,378
Freeholds .. .. 260,756 270,186 621,855
Plant, etc 29,511 41,061 73,093
Stock 353,411 408,344 365,734
Debtors .. .. 25,946 39,528 58,196
Cash, shares, etc. .. 92,574 57,881 59,500
£762,413 £817,000 £1,178,378
Down £53,949 to £192,518, smaller work-
ing-capital was the result of the outlay
on fixed assets.
Fairly well supported at Bs. 2d., the
ss. shares are quoted on ’Change to return
6.1 p.c. on the 10 p.c. div, Net tangible
asset backing is 9s. 9d.
Kornblums Furnishings, Ltd.
ON balance, this company would, no
doubt, sooner be rid of import-
controls, but their imposition has bene-
fited its manufacturing activities,
although, of course, the restrictions have
also made the going tougher for the
merchandising subsidiaries.
Carpets, linoleums and other furnish-
ing-materials are the main lines handled,
distributed in the eastern States by Korn-
blums Pty., Ltd., from warehouses in
Melbourne and Sydney, and in S.A. and
W.A. by Kornblums (S.A.), Ltd., which
the parent co. took over in 1953. A
buying-office in London looks after that
end of its import-business. Furnishing
Textiles Pty., Ltd., set-up in Mel-
bourne just after the outbreak of war in
1939, makes high-class furnishing-
fabrics.
Kornblums has been in the importing
and wholesaling business for more than
65 years, and was formed into a public
co. in November, 1924, but the ords. have
figured on the Stock Exchange lists only
since the holding co. was formed in 1951.
Paid capital was £270,000 in 540,000 10s.
shares of which 360,000 were allotted to
shareholders of Kornblums Pty., Ltd.,
and Furnishing Textiles, and the remain-
ing 180,000, at par, to members of the
general public. The proprietaries’ share-
holders were paid another £40,000 in cash,


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Skipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKB
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“pROTECTa” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGB IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
DAVIES A COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
■V
L
LIFE ASSURANCE
M£e&v£ce
FOR
YEARS
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligli Streets, Sydney.
jFcuth In the
\
>
m
Magnificent though the achievements of our
century have been, I believe that the richest
recording of these times will be written if the
historian can say, hundreds of years hence, that
this was the age in which men began to understand
one another.
Automation brings machines to act upon
machines. The atom bursts and throws out new
miracles. And what does it profit us, if the races
and nations of the world remain apart in their
thinking and understanding?
“People are what count.” President Eisenhower
crammed the enormous truth into four words in a
speech he delivered at a Texas University in May
of this year, when he appealed for an effort in
international education.
Now, education is not an abstract term for
books and classrooms. It means the removal of
the barriers of ignorance—within ourselves, and
in our relations with other people.
When the force of its need at the international
level can so impress American thought, how
strongly must it come in upon Australians—set
as we are at the fringe of the great Asian
continent!
We see how happily the Colombo Plan has
acted in removing misconceptions about Australia
and its policies in the minds of visiting students.
Their presence amongst us has heightened our
interest in Asians.
That, on a far wider scale, is the very thing
President Eisenhower has advocated —“a voluntary
effort in people-to-people partnership to lift
the eyes of men and women above the drab and
desolate horizon of hate and fear and hopelessness.”
Let the new age come in all its splendour, and
may we bring Australia to the full enjoyment of
its blessings. But a condition to it all is that we
should get to know better the people of other lands,
and that they should get to know us.
7
July 4, 1956.
making a total consideration for
their interests of £220,000.
Since the upheaval in the
trade of a few years ago (caused
by a flood of imports which
afterwards became an inadequate
trickle) the co. has turned in
some much better performances:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
JaD., Profit. , —Dividends—Deficit.*
£ £ £
Profit sale assets, £43 .. 16,491
Prelim, expenses, £lOOO .. 17,491
1952.. 35.789 6J p.c. = 16,876 1,586
Profit sale assets, £275 .. 1,811
Added reserves, £478 .. 2,289
Prelim, expenses, £lOOO .. 1,289
1953.. 28.021 6 p.c. = 16,200 8,110
Prelim, expenses, £4949 .. 3,161
Added reserves, £763 .. 3,924
, —Dividends— x
Pref. Ord.
6-7 p.c. 8J p.c.
1954.. 62,522 1,488 23,625 31,333
Profit sale assets, £7BB .. 32,071
Added reserves, £B2l .. 32,892
10 p.c.
1965.. 66.202 2,800 27,000 69,294
Profit sale assets, £172 .. 69,466
Added reserves, £849 .. 70,315
1966.. 66.662 2,800 27,000 106,167
♦Subject to intangibles, £43,951 at
27/l/’66.
Last term sales were higher than
ever, but net earnings finished a
little below the £66,202 written in
the previous year. Depreciation
was £3668 heavier at £11,014,
and another £6570 (£48,500) was
provided for taxation. On paid
ordinary capital, after allowing
for the pref. divs. shown in the
table, the £65,652 was 23.3 p.c.,
as against 23.5 p.c. in 1955, 18.9
p.c. in 1954, 8.5 p.c. in 1953 and
16.9 p.c. in 1952. Issued in 1953
to help finance the purchase of
Kornblums (S.A.), the £40,000
pref. capital carries a cumulative
6 p.c. div. with the right to
participate with the ords. to
7 p.c. a year.
Conservative rating of the
dividend has enabled the co. to
put back more than half its net
earnings of the last three years
to strengthen finances:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. .. £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Ord. .. 270,000 270,000 270,000
Reserves .. 31,333 69,294 106,167
Outside
Interests.. 17,312 17,123 16,569
Overdraft .. 1,624 12,819
Creditors . . 194,210 175,922 206,247
Tax provision 54,468 73,676 73,127
final divs... 14,988 16,250 14,900
£622,311 £663,889 £739,829
Land, build-
ings . . 95,867 95,305 102,027
Plant, etc... 29,504 42,669 50,516
Shares . . 214 214 134
Stock, etc... 258,535 315,651 361,525
Debtors .. 177,521 165,848 181,442
Cash . . 16,719 251 234
Intangibles.. 43,951 43,951 43,951
£622,311 £663,889 £739,829
Stocks, the chief item in the
balance-sheet, were swollen by
the delayed arrival of shipments
from the United Kingdom
following the long dock-strike
there. Purchase of premises for
the operating cos. at Richmond
(Melbourne) 1 and Adelaide
accounts for the increase in the
land and buildings item. At the
end of the term the surplus of
more-or-less liquids was £21,830
bigger at £280,059.
Last sale of the ords. was at
1 Is., to yield 9 p.c. At a discount
at 165., the £1 prefs. are priced
to return 8.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible asset cover
is £9 6s. Id. for the prefs. and
12s. 4d. for the ords.
Freighters, Ltd.
T\EALINGS in the shares of
Freighters, Ltd., were
suspended on Melbourne and
Sydney Stock Exchanges last
week following the proclamation
of the co. under the Victorian
Companies (Special Investiga-
tions) Act, which provides that
a law-officer (in this case
Attorney-General Rylah) may
act if he is satisfied that a prima
facie case has been established
for an investigation for the pro-
tection of the public, share-
holders or creditors.
Freighters’ chairman, J. J.
Brown, said the proclamation
was a complete surprise, and the
directors were unaware of what
allegations were made against
the co., as shareholders’ funds
were more than fully covered,
and trading-figures showed no
falling-off. The co. paid its
usual interim at the rate of
15 p.c. p.a. in March.
The co. has been expanding
rapidly of late, adding to capital,
bank-overdraft and stocks in
particular. Balance-sheet com-
parisons for 1953-54 and
1954-55:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955.
Paid capital . . £600,000 £906,174
Reserves .. .. 358,737 487,773
Outside interests.. 16,667
Depreciation prov’n 125,458 220,487
Overdraft . . . . 220,246 684.677
Creditors .. . . 155,769 258,911
Tax provision .. 52,636 91,289
Pinal div. .. 45,000 67,963
£1,557,846 £2,738,891
Land, buildings .. 261,616 505,69 S
Plant, etc. .. 366,961 618,218
Shares .. .. 91,997 11,908
Stock . . .. 526,973 1,121,273
Debtors . . .. 303,426 427,380
Cash .. .. 6,814 30,433
Intangibles .. 59 18,981
£1,5571846 £2,733,891
Stocks more than doubled in the
1954-55 term, and the bank-
overdraft rose by £464,431 to
£684,677.
The co. set-up in 1946 to take
over the McGrath Trailer
Equipment Co. Pty., Ltd.
When heavy taxes on the inter-
state road-transport industry
narrowed the market for the
special types of equipment pro-
duced by Freighters a few years
ago, the co. turned to the
general- and structural-engineer-
ing side of the business to help
sustain operations.
Since then the States’ road-
taxes have been invalidated by
the Privy Council and demand
for trailer-equipment has revived.
Considerable progress was made,
too, with refrigerated transport,
modern equipment has been
installed, and production-lines of
the manufacturing subsidiaries
have been reorganised. Hire-
purchase selling has also been
introduced to capture additional
business.
Other developments included
the purchase in 1954 of J. A.
Lawton and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide
engineers, manufacturing motor-
bus bodies and (under licence)
fork-lift trucks. Since taking-
over a start has been made to
transfer all the activities of the
co. to a new factory at Seaton
Park (Adelaide). A body-
building plant has also been
established at Moorabbin in
Victoria.
Another new interest is the
mass-production (scheduled to
begin at Seaton Park early in
1957) of a quarter-ton vehicle
similar to the Jeep. According
to the co., demand is widespread,
and for the first year production
of 5000 vehicles is planned.
Third of recent developments
was the establishment of a new
subsidiary, Freighters - Lunn
Laminated Plastics, Ltd., to
manufacture car-bodies, pan-
technicons, radiator-grilles, bath-
tubs, etc., in reinforced plastic.
Two-thirds of the new co.'s
capital was put up by Freighters,
and the remaining third by Lunn-
Laminates, of America.
Consolidated profit for the
1955 term, after providing
£34,654 (up £6351) depreciation
and £88,721 (up £36,060) taxa-
tion, was shown at £66,923 above
the £92,919 earned the preceding
year:—
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June, Profit. r —Dividends serves,*
£ £ £
1953. .100,054 16 p.c. = 76,000 277,017
Share-premiums, £50,000 .. 327,017
Profit sale assets, £28,801.. 366,818
.1964.. 92,919 16 p.c. = 90,000 858,787
Share-premiums, £l5OO .. 360,237
Add on consolidation, £93,829 454,066
Profit sale assets, £2721 .. 456,787
Unexplained addition, £7070 468,867
1955.-169,842 15 p.c. = 135,926 487,778
* Subject to intangibles, £18,981 at
30/6/’65.
On mean capital employed
profit disclosed represented 17.6
p.c. in 1955 and 15.5 p.c., 20 p.c.,
26.1 p.c. and 28.7 p.c. back to
1951. Dividend was again
15 p.c., making an average of
16 p.c. since 1951.
Cover for the 15 p.c. div. on
an increasing capital narrowed
over the two years to June,
1955, but, as mentioned, the
interim for the year which ended
a few days ago was maintained.
The ss. shares were quoted at
Bs. 4d. the day before their
suspension from Stock Exchange
trading.
South Australian Brewing
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
BREWING Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide (B. 13/6/’56), states
that the dividend-rate for 1955-
56 (not specified in the published
accounts) was p.c. on the
increased capital, compared
with 10 p.c. in the preceding
term. The yi«ls at. 7s. 9d. for
the ss. stock-units is £4 16s. lOd.
per cent, on a 7£ p.c. div. basis.
Wapet Drilling
Following completion of
access-roads, etc., Rough
Range South No. 1, the first of
eight structure - holes to be
drilled on the southern extension
of Rough Range (W.A.), was
spudded-in with one of Wapet’s
mobile T-32 rigs pn May 14.
At 2867 ft. drilling was stopped
after the required geological
information had been obtained.
On June 26 Rough Range
South No. 2 was spudded-in. It
was then announced that
preparations were well advanced
to resume drilling at Cape
Range. The drilling-contract has
been let to 0.D.E., which is also
doing the Rough Range South
job.
At the beginning of May the
Fraser River No. 1 well in
the Kimberleys was at a
depth of 6667 ft.
While loss of drilling-mud
continued to be experienced
intermittently throughout the
month, progress was made, and
at the end of May the well was
at a depth of 7426 ft., drilling in
a fine sandstone formation. By
June 26 the well was at 8725 ft.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
There were more than 300 guests at
the Town Hall for the reception given by
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Sir
Frank and Lady Selleck) to welcome
home Australia’s former High Commis-
sioner, Sir Thomas White, and Lady
White.
Lady Selleck, who presented Lady
White with a bouquet of pink roses and
hyacinths, wore a slim frock of black
fine-wool and a blue-mink stole; her
cloche hat was of dusty-pink felt
finished with a jewelled-pin. Lady White’s
coat-frock was of moss-green velvet, her
platter-hat in matching green trimmed
with feathers.
Guests included the Archbishop of
Melbourne (Rt. Rev. J. J. Booth) and
Mrs. Booth ; Senator Spicer (representing
the Federal Government) and Mrs.
Spicer; Mr. Chandler, M.L.C., and Mrs.
Chandler; and, with her medico hus-
band, Mrs. Geoffrey Harley, daughter of
Sir Thomas and Lady White. There, too,
were former Victorian Agent-General Sir
John Lienhop and his wife (she wearing
a black suit and pale-lime felt cloche),
Sir Samuel and Lady Burston, Sir John
Latham, Sir Peter McCallum and his
daughter Monica, Mr. and Mrs. E.
French, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Menzies
and Mrs. W. K. Burnside.
☆ ☆ *
Noted at the first night of Sheridan’s
“The Rivals” at the Comedy: Mrs.
Massey Burnside, who wore a glowing-
red velvet gown under her mink coat;
Mrs. W. Seymour’s full-length gown of
blue-black velvet; Lady Tait’s black
faille, tight-fitting to the knees, where it
was caught with pink roses, and then
belled out into fullness; Mrs. Arthur
Joyce’s royal-blue satin theatre-coat,
which she wore over a black frock ; Mrs.
A. T. Smithers’s silver-grey satin gown,
with the skirt cut into a short train ; and
Miss Gertrude Johnson’s jewelled theatre-
hat, worn with a black gown.
«r * ☆
The Loreto Old Girls’ Association is
to run a gala film-premiere of “Wedding
Breakfast,” starring Bette Davis, at the
Malvern Metro Theatre to assist the
building-appeal for the War Memorial
Teachers’ Training College at Norman-
hurst (N.S.W.). President of the associa-
tion is Mrs. John Dynon. Mrs. John
O’Rorke (premiere-organiser), Mrs. Bing
Molyneux and Mrs. John Calder are in
charge of publicity. The four-guinea
seats are already sold out, but those at
three-, two- and one-guinea, 10s. and ss.
are available. Ticket-secretaries are Mrs.
Brendan McGuinness (UY3087), Mrs.
Francis Galbally (JX4092), Carole Bowen
(X 82315) and Marie Parer (WA8717).
☆ ☆ ☆
When she was married at Trinity Pres-
byterian Church, Camberwell, Elizabeth
Mae Fulton, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. R. B. Fulton, of Camberwell, wore
a classical gown of ivory-brocade, with
the tulle veil held by a pearl coronet. Her
bouquet was of cream roses. Short
dresses of seafoam-blue-green brocade
were worn by the bridesmaids, Mary
Bray and the bride’s sister Helen. The
bridegroom, who is a resident medical-
officer of Royal Perth Hosptial, is the
elder son of Dr. and Mrs. R. L. Naylor,
of Surrey Hills. He had Dr. John
Mitchell and Mr. Robert Naylor to
support him. The bride was a Sister at
Royal Melbourne.
xy xy. xy.
Mrs. G. A. Vasey, president of the
War Widows’ Guild, received a cheque
for £5OOO from Minister for Social Ser-
vices Robertson for the building of new
flats for war-widows, whose housing-
problems are great. Last October Mrs.
Vasey purchased, on behalf of the guild,
a century-old greystone house in South
Yarra, and she has been responsible for
the compact architectural redesign and
the decorative schemes for the flats,
which are bright and airy. There are five
of them on the top-floor and each is self-
contained and fitted with a refrigerator
and other modern appliances. Each
flat has a bedroom, sitting-room, fitted
with basic furniture, and a kitchen, and
there is a communal laundry and bath-
rooms. This is the second grant the Com-
monwealth Government has made to the
guild, which already has 16 other flats at
Hawthorn occupied by war-widows.
At the Prince Henry’s Hospital annual
cabaret-ball, held at the Royale Ball-
room, 11 debutantes were received by the
Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck), who wore
a lovely full-skirted gown of mist-blue
guipure-lace. The debutantes (who wore
individual white gowns and carried 1830-
style posies) were Patricia Moir, Judith
Kelily, Barbara Palmer, Leonie Donahoe,
Maureen Ryan, Moya Chamberlain,
Bernice Hart, Janice Johnson, Annabelle
Cole, Della Donahoe and Margaret
Williamson. Among the official guests,
who were received by Mr. and Mrs. I. L.
Schroeder, were the hospital Matron (Miss
A. Morgan), Dr. and Mrs. Murray
Tallent, Mr. and Mrs. G. L. Catchlove,
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Jungwirth (she
wearing a gown of'magnolia satin), Mr.
and Mrs. W. K. Burnside (her gown of
Kelly-green tulle), the Mayor of South
Melbourne (Cr. F. Ferry) and the acting
Mayoress (Mrs. V. Prebble).
Well-known for her work as organiser
of many charitable appeals, Mrs.
Margaret Saker has just returned from
nine-months overseas, during which she
studied TV-production with the B.B. C.
and the Independent Television Co. at
Wembley. From the garden of Sir Alan
Herbert’s home Mrs. Saker saw Cam-
bridge. defeat Oxford in the boatrace,
other guests on this occasion being Anna
Neagle and Douglas Fairbanks, J nr. She
also renewed her friendship with Aus-
tralian singer Laurie Lott (now known
as Laurence Payne) and his film-starlet
wife Wendy Noel. Mrs. Saker is going
into public- and press-relations work.
Photo by John Wayne.
Last week St. Peter’s, Melbourne’s
oldest Anglican Church, standing on its
original site in Eastern Hill, commenced
its 110th anniversary-celebrations. St.
James’ Old Cathedral was built six years
earlier, but was subsequently pulled down
and re-erected in West Melbourne, leaving
St. Peter’s the oldest and the first to be
consecrated.
The foundation-stone was laid on June
18, 1846, by Joseph La Trobe, at that time
Superintendent of the district of Port
Phillip and afterward Lieut.-Governor.
The bricks of the nave and tower came
from England as ballast in sailing-ships,
and in 1853-54 the transepts, with their
galleries, were built.
The first Bishop, Charles Perry, who
was consecrated in Westminster Abbey on
St. Peter’s Day, 1847, read from the steps
of St. Peter’s the Letters Patent from
Queen Victoria making Melbourne a city.
The celebrations, which include an
exhibition of the life, art and work of
the Church, will close on July 7 with a
dinner, which past and present
parishioners will attend.
xy.xy.xy.
Three-hundred guests went to Ciro’s
for the late-afternoon party given to
celebrate Canada’s 89th birthday. Host
was Canadian Commercial-Secretary Roy
Blake, who was assisted in receiving the
guests by Mrs. Blake. Red poinsettias and
hydrangeas decorated the reception-room.
Mrs. Blake wore a short evening-frock of
iridescent red-and-black shot-taffeta,
which had a rounded neckline and
bouffant skirt.
With the Lord Mayor was Lady
Selleck, whose small winter-white toque
with its swathing of brown velvet was
worn with a fitted black coat with
Persian-lamb trimming. Mrs. Harold
Holt’s large black velour hat, with its
swansdown brim, went with a smart black
suit.
SYDNEY
Now in the depths of winter and the
midst of the season, Sydneyites are
rolling-up loyally to their ex-students’
dances, Trinity, Newington and Waverley
College each having held dances
on various nights during the week. The
Movie Ball, one of the very few “fancy
dress” functions left in Sydney, drew 1500
to the same haunt. The Douglas Munros,
of Gundibri, Merriwa, threw a cocktail-
party for 100 at the Royal Sydney Golf
Club for son Angus, who was 21 that
day. St. John’s College held its “formal,”
and there were divers luncheons,
musicales, at-homes, card-parties, etc., in
aid of charity. For so is the season made
up and people kept busy and reasonably
happy in the nippy atmosphere.
* ☆ *
Notable dresses seen during the week
included the black-and-white tweed coat-
dress worn by Mrs. A. L. Walters at the
Sunday luncheon which she gave with the
Air-Vice-Marshal at the Glenbrook head-
quarters of Home Command. The dress
had a small Puritan-collar braided with
black, and it was worn with a lively-
looking little white hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Pied Piper Ball at Prince’s in aid of
the Spastic Centre gave some of the
prettiest evening-dresses their chance to
be seen. President Mrs. Murray Robson’s
misty-blue tulle, with its multicolored
sequin-petalled bodice, was among the
most attractive. Others that caught the
eye were Mrs. Michael Read’s white tulle
sprinkled with diamente and small
padded roses in various pastel-colors;
Mrs. Bob Mclnerney’s swathed and fitted,
classical navy jersey ; Mrs. Denis Rowe’s
striking grey-and-white satin dress, with
its bouffant skirt; and Mrs. Lee Cobb’s
silver satin, with scroll-work and diamente
decorating the skirt.
Janet Plowman, only daughter of Lady
Plowman and the late Sir Claude Plowman,
has chosen St. Mark’s, Darling Point, for
her wedding in August to Barrie Morris,
who is the only son of Mr. and Mrs. Keith
Morris, of Wollstonecraft. House-hunting
(somewhere in the Killara area) and
wedding-preparations are keeping both
Janet and Barrie very busy at present.
Janet’s photo by Norton-Trevaire.
Thousands crowded the Homes Exhibi-
tion at the Showground, for in this day
of housing-shortage people seem to be
obsessed with anything that goes to make
up a “dream home,” as it is called. It
was a bit disturbing to read during the
week that so many things we have just
about learned as being right for the
modern home are just about to go out!
These include, so we are told, terraces,
L-shaped houses, outsize living-rooms,
great picture-windows and houses with-
out a hall. It is hard enough, and
expensive enough, in all truth, to keep up
with changes in dress-fashions. To keep
up with fickle fashions in homes, too,
would be beyond our means entirely were
it not that most of these homes are in the
“dream”-class, and dreams come cheaply.
xy.xy.xy.
Music during the week included the
recital by the Lasalle Quartet, the first
American quartet to visit Australia.
Music-lovers who gathered at the Bellevue
Hill home of Mr. and Mrs. A. Rudner
on Thursday to greet members of the
quartet included pianist Paul Badura-
Skoda, who had been soloist at the Youth
Concert conducted by Sir Bernard Heinze
earlier in the week. Mr. and Mrs. B. P.
McFarlan welcomed the guests with Mr,
and Mrs. Rudner. Mr. and Mrs. Hope
Gibson were present, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Moses, Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Goldner, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Berg,
Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Single and Mr. Ken
Tribe. The Musica Viva Society, which
brought the quartet to Australia, has,
says its secretary, Regina Ridge, more
than doubled its membership during the
past two years, and now has 1000
subscribers.
V V V
The retail-stores, with stoical disregard
of wind and weather, have opened-up
their spring stocks. Flower-laden hats and
linen dresses are being featured, and so
far there are more plain colors than
florals. The H-line, modified and recog-
nised by a horizontal line round the hips;
the Empire-line, modified and recognised
by a horizontal-line under the bust; the
A-line, recognised because it looks like
the letter A; the princess-line (which has
been the mode for years); and the
“Oriental look,” which will be recognised
by even the least fashion-conscious be-
cause it looks so Oriental —these are the
chief sweets in store. Linen, pure-cotton
and cotton-compositions such as Sundek
appear to be the materials that will be
used.
Among the bits of News You May
Have Missed is the information that the
only cats which survived a plague of
field-mice on Eyre’s Peninsula were
those too fat and lazy to bother to catch
any. The industrious mousers all
developed a disease from the mice and
died-off. There is a moral (though not
a good one) in this somewhere.
xy xy J?
A happy party marked the 12th birth-
day of the Orana Club during the week,
when about 60 members attended, and the
blue birthday-cake decorated with, red
candles was cut by the club’s youngest
member, 16-year-old Nola Fitzroy. The
club was founded 12 years ago to provide
special facilities for men and women
whose physical handicaps prevent them
from taking part in the activities of ordin-
ary clubs. Their programmes on club-
nights include chess, music, films, drama
and in some instances table-tennis. Their
chief club-room is in Bent-street, city,
and there is another at Parramatta. Those
who cannot travel by bus or train are
driven in cars by Rotarians to their
various functions and club-meetings.
xy xy Xy
Quiet phone-call from Miss Margaret
Gillespie to Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere,
president of the Elizabethan Theatre Ball
committee: “I thought you’d like to know
that one of my little letters has borne
fruit, and that we now have an anony-
mous donation of £1000.” At the ball-
committee meeting during the week Mrs.
Dekyvere told the story of how a guest
approached her brother-in-law, Victor,
at the “Picnic” theatre-party and said,
“Where are the home-made sandwiches?”
“Madam,” said Victor, “they are all
home-made.” “How do you know?”
asked the guest. “Because / made them,”
was the clinching reply. The Elizabethan
Theatre Ball will be held at the Trocadero
in September. Invitations go out this
week.
xy.sy.xj.
Ballerina-dresses for the bride and her
matron-of-honor were particularly
appropriate at the wedding of Adele
Jarrett and John Bowker at St. Stephen’s,
Bellevue Hill, for all members of the
wedding-party are associated with the
popular musical-comedy “Can Can,”
which is on at the Empire. Adele wore
bouffant white nylon over pale-blue with
an elbow-length tulle veil. Betty
Pounder (Mrs. John Baines), who, as
matron-of-honor, wore pearl-grey satin
sprinkled with grey and black velvet spots,
is ballet-mistress for the show. Stage-
manager lan Roberts gave the bride away
and Graerpe Bent was best man. After
the wedding a party was held at Bellevue
Hill, and then in the evening everyone,
including the bride and ’groom, was at
the theatre for the performance.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Collins, whose husband, the late
Sir Archibald Collins, was medical-
superintendent of Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital for some years, was unanimously
elected president of the committee of wives
of R.P.A.’s honorary medical-officers who
are working for the hospital’s rehabilita-
tion-centre appeal. Supporting her as
secretaries and treasurer are Mrs. Rex
Money, Mrs. B. T. Edye and Mrs. Ash-
leigh Davy. \


the
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862,
Head Offices GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
t w TITTNT OP fThairman'), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX, ORWELL
PHILIPS R J. ISrS A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 432 ol 1956.
TO ERNEST CLIFFORD CLYDE
STEWART of 15 Nowranie Street Summer
Hill —TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS
MARY STEWART has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 432 of 1956 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for 3 years and upwards If you wisti
to defend vou may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 7th September 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN H. SPICER & CO..
Solicitors, of 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
MARY WILKINSON.
WILL the relatives of MARY WILKIN-
SON, last heard of at Lewallewah,
Gordon Crescent, Stanmore, Sydney, New
South Wales, Australia, please communi-
cate with us as they may hear something
to their advantage 1- —FREEMAN HAYNES
& CO., Gray’s Inn Chambers, 20 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I, England.
Prefer to save money by
mixing your own drench?
For maximum efficiency insist on
SICKLE
nm
BRAND
MICROPHENE
PHENOTHI AZI N E PO WDER
99 per cent, of particles guaranteed smaller
than 25 microns—the C.5.1.R.0.
standard for best results!
O Micrcfine particles ensure maximum control of
worms in sheep and other domestic animals.
O Mixes easily.
• Non - poisonous sheep
need not be starved before
drenching.
• Prevents pasture re-infes-
tation.
• Packed in cartons contain-
ing 2 x 11 fib. bags
sufficient for 520 grown
sheep.
l im
If ::?i
i Hill fill
IlillU
Ask (or the
FREE
DRENCH
CHART
from your
local supplier.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
COMMONWEALTH FERTILISERS AND CHEMICALS LTD.
Reg. Office: 65 William Street, Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 390 D.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Tib or Paul
The iron curtain that seems
to keep modern works out of
Brisbane musical territory lifted
long enough to let through Tibor
Paul with a Bartdk Divertimento
for Strings under his arm. With
him came violist Bernard Shore
bearing a Suite by Vaughan
Williams, and everything seemed
set for a programme as interest-
ing as it was fresh.
The Divertimento, a 1939
work, is a happy combination of
classical forms and 20th-century
musical feeling. The orchestra
gave the impression of feeling
its way too carefully through
the first movement, but a grave
and impressive slow movement
which came next went very much
better. George White’s solo
violin led the way into a strongly
rhythmical finale which had the
power and vitality characteristic
of Bartok’s style.
Bernard Shore played the
Vaughan Williams Viola Suite
with the assurance and warmth
of tone that one might expect
from the one-time viola leader
of the 8.8. C. Symphony. The
music, though, was sometimes
good, sometimes indifferent,
striking the ear most soothingly
in a little carol that bore the
unmistakable fingerprints of the
composer. Yet, however English
this suite sounded, a first-rate
violist sent out by the British
Council might well have played
Walton’s Viola Concerto, which
would have been more satisfac-
tory as a showpiece of modern
English composition.
There was nothing less than
the Beethoven “Eroica” Sym-
phony fo balance this first-half
of the concert. Here the
splendors of the first movement
overshadowed the rest of the
music, and Tibor Paul was not
afraid to let the orchestra have
its head. He let the great chords
that slash across the course of
the music ring out with a
savagery that sounded just right
for a symphony about a con-
queror.
This impressiveness lasted
through the slow movement, but
then came deterioration. The
scherzo sounded too much like
a rehearsal, and there were
enough shaky entries to point
to the need for a few more hours
in the rehearsal-room before
brand-new programmes are
offered to the public.
D.J. M.
* * *
“The Rivals”
The Australian Drama Com-
pany revived this first-born of
Sheridan’s comedic talent at
Melbourne Comedy and gave its
artificial plot and its superfical
wit more life than was accorded
“Twelfth Night.” If there was
a slightly amateurish touch about
the acting, there was none about
the scenic devices, which worked
with the same machinelike pre-
cision as Mrs. Malaprop’s mis-
handlings of the English
language. .
Whatever else he is, Sheridan
isn’t pretentious, and his artless
humor is lively enough to keep
an audience laughing.
The company played their
parts smoothly. There was an
Elizabethan robustness about
servants George Ogilvie and
Malcolm Robertson, and Dinah
Shearing and Diana Davidson
were excellent as the lovesick
maidens. Clement McCallin was
a dashing captain that any girl
would fall for, and Kenneth
Warren, as Sir Lucius O’Trigger,
was as funny as they make ’em.
♦> * *
Silent Panto
“Nutcracker” music by
Tschaikowsky, choreography by
Lichine—is the latest addition to
the Borovansky repertoire at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne. It may
best be described as silent panto.,
and is very charming, all the
more so because the wisecracks
and the raucous-voiced Mother
Gooses are conspicuous by their
absence, as are the sententious
moralising of Fairy Queens and
suchlike.
If there is anything in the
nature of a devil, it is John Auld,
as Herr Drosselmeyer, a tall
black bat with sable wings, who
brings presents to the children
at the Herr Burgermeister’s
Christmas-party and naturally
produces chaos. There is a touch
of observation in the hatred and
jealousies which are occasioned
by his well-intentioned gesture.
The burgomaster’s daughter
Clara (brightly done by Alida
Glasbeek) has her nose put out
of joint because her brother
Franz gets the best toy, and she
has a dream in which the burgo-
master’s drawing-room becomes
a battlefield in which an army of
soldiers wage war against an
invading horde of micemen.
Clara gets her Prince, and what
a prince! —Royes Fernandez
would more than satisfy any
child’s inferiority-complex.
There are #lso harlequins and
columbines and Candyland with
Hot Chocolate, Coffee, Tea and
Candy Canes and whatnot, and
the most realistic snowfall that
has been staged in Melbourne
since the days of Bland Holt.
Snowflakes from the Borovansky
Academy dance through the
blizzard, which is quite the
prettiest scene present com-
mentator has seen in ballet.
A breezy “Le Carnaval” to
Schumann’s music completed the
programme.
$ *
Christian Ferras
It isn’t done in Melbourne for
a virtuoso, distinguished or
otherwise, to give encores,
especially after doing a gigantic
job like the Brahms Violin
Concerto as Christian Ferras did
it at the Town Hall the other
evening, but the French violinist
brought the feat off.
The final phrases of the most
difficult concerto ever written
died into silence, the applause
rolled around the auditorium
and died in the ceiling, where-
upon the fiddler returned and
drew from his instrument the
strains of a Bach prelude. If a
policeman had heard the
staggering ovation he might well
have rushed in with baton drawn
to put down the riot. It was a
tribute to a masterly perform-
ance and technical skill of the
highest order, and Mr. Joseph
Post looked as pleased as his
band of players.
The First Symphony of
Sibelius followed. Some of the
enthusiasm of the audience must
have got into the music, for it
seemed to be more full of
warmth and color than at any
previous performance.
* * *
Lasalle String Quartet
At its only Sydney recital this
American ensemble Walter
Levin (first-violin), Henry Meyer
(second-violin), Peter Kamnitzer
(viola) and Jack Kirstein (’cello)
—gave a programme which had
something for all tastes.
It began with a polished and
graceful reading of Mozart’s D
Major String Quartet, K. 575. A
beautiful balance was held be-
tween the instruments, and the
’cello contributed some
lyricism in the trio of the Minuet.
This was followed by the First
Quartet by the contemporary
American Walter Piston. It has
a clever simulation of four
blowflies droning maddeningly
around a confined space, and
elsewhere a strong suggestion of
a pride of cats suffering acute
nocturnal agonies—which is all
right for lovers of blowies and
fummies.
Bruckner’s only experiment in
the string-quartet form, his C
Minor, is a compound of
grandiose eloquence, of almost
religious tranquillity, of furious
energy and of no little bombast.
A work typical of its composer,
it has genuine exaltation rubbing
shoulders with superficiality on
the same page. But the andante
was overlaid with reflective
beauty, and the rondo had
precision at high speed.
The fourth quartet was Beet-
hoven’s F Minor, Op. 95, the
last one of his “middle-period,’'
though foreshadowing the last
great five that he was to begin
14 years later. The swift
harmonic changes; the strong
melodies ; the rich tone-color ;
the powerful drama, with the use
of remQte keys for the darkening
of moods; the scherzo, which
carries no vestige of the usual
gusty Beethovenian humor —
these were all given their due
place in a performance with
admirable clarity of detail.
* » ♦>
A.B.C. Competitions
The seven finalists in the Vic-
torian section of the A.B.C.
Concerto and Vocal competitions
were surprisingly unnervous;
some showed the confidence of
seasoned virtuosi.
Anthony Fenelon, who looked
about 12 and played the piano
in the first movement of the
difficult Grieg Concerto in A
Minor, Op. 16, was so good in
the quiet movement that the
present commentator would have
given him first place before the
others started if his attack had
been a bit more fiery.
Douglas Stuchbury, who sang
“Vile Race of Courtiers,” from
“Rigoletto,” put the utmost
bitterness into the hunchback s
curse, but was a trifle breathy.
On the other hand, Anne Levin
sang “Softly Awakes My
Heart,” from “Samson and
Delilah,” as if to herself and was
almost inaudible at times, though
her voice was rich enough when-
ever it got across the footlights.
Warren Thomson probably
made the wrong choice with the
Prokofieff Concerto No. 3 in C
Major. There was a machinelike
quality about his softer playing,
but he rattled through the fast
parts to some purpose.
John Wion, flautist, was the
opposite of the previous artist.
Out of his small instrument came
a delightfully sensitive rendition
of a concert-piece, Opus 8, of
Hofmann, which was such a good
choice that it pleased the house
as much as the performance.
Brian Hansford displayed a nice
voice and had complete control
of “O Star of Eve,” from “Tann-
hauser”—pleasing if not stirring.
Max Mackay chose Rach-
maninoff’s Rhapsody on a
Theme by Paganini, that darling
of every bobby-dazzling virtuoso.
The technical shortcomings
natural at his age were out-
weighed by his artistry, which
was quite considerable. There
was lovely tone in the slow
passages and sensitive changes
from loud to soft. The audience
stamped its collective feet at this
point.
Judges William James, of the
A.8.C., and Kurt Woess,
resident-conductor, gave first
places to John Wion and Brian
Hansford. Henry Krips con-
ducted.
Talkies
“Picnic” (Sydney State): A
fine screen-version of William
Inge’s play about a cheerful hobo
who drops off the rattler in a
small American town to look-up
an old schooldays friend. It is
Labor Day and he is invited to
the district picnic, and what
begins as a carefree outing ends
24 hours later in explosive
drama, with the lives of three
women completely changed.
It is director Joshua Logan’s
first film, and he reveals himself
as a craftsman of remarkable
imagination and sensitivity. The
picnic-spirit is admirably cap-
tured and the changes of mood
worked with great subtlety.
William Holden, as ’the like-
able hobo, has never done better
work —there is always at the
back of his chest-beating bluff
the suggestion of regret for lost
opportunities and hope for better
things.
Kim Novak, as the pretty girl-
friend of his old school-pal;
Rosalind Russell, as a school-
marm whose spinsterhood is the
subject of her own bitter jokes;
Susan Strasberg, as a gawky
teenager ; and Betty Field, as a
mother with a venal cast of
thought—all these contribute
good portraits.
* * *
“The Loves of Hilda Crane”
(Sydney Century): Jean Simmons
as the woman who returns to
her home-town after a brace of
divorces and a string of extra-
marital affairs. She marries her
old college lover, and, after a
brief kicking-over the traces,
suddenly and unconvincingly
reforms. The dialogue is above
average, Miss Simmons talks a
lot of gyvo in support of loose
morals, and there is a glowing
performance, all too brief, from
Evelyn Varden as her battle-axe
future ma-in-law who tells the
bride off with fascinating candor.


Briglow
By
R. S.
PORTEOUS
Bob Anders, 26-year-old
bushman who has been in the
A.1.F., goes to a job as overseer
of Yakaparni cattle-station far
out in Central Queensland,
following being interviewed by
city bank-manager Forster, who
has engineered the appointment
because he thinks owner Carson
is letting the property run-down.
After a torrid first mustering,
Bob finds this view confirmed:
Carson really hates cattle-work,
and Bob takes-over, soon getting
rid of Albert Newton, whose
mismanagement is ruining the
station. Mrs. Carson, quietly
able to manage her explosive
husband, is wrapped-up in their
teenage daughter, Julia, school-
ing in the city. On the strong
recommendation of “Curly”
Ryan, who runs the Dilargo
township pub, Bob's first
appointment is, as horsebreaker,
hardcase Wonga Watkins, a
tough little bloke with a per-
manent look of worry on his
almost Oriental phiz.
CHAPTER VII
T HE sound of galloping
horses made me look up
in surprise as I was
saddling the night-horse
at sunrise next morning. I had
been about to run the horses
in, but someone was obviously
doing it for me.
It was Wonga, I saw when he
dismounted to put the rails up.
Waiting for him to join me at
the saddle-rail I had time to
take in the details of his outfit.
And they were by no means
impressive. His swag was a
shapeless bundle, held together
with odd bits of rope, and not
even strapped on. He held it
across the pommel of his saddle
—the most dilapidated old
wreck of a saddle I had ever
seen.
His mount was an old flea-
bitten grey. It was as poor as
a crow, its bottom lip hung
dejectedly, and as it stopped in
front of me I thought it looked
even more worried than its
rider.
“You must have got an early
start, Wonga,” I said.
“Yair.” He tossed his swag to
the ground. “Thought I might
as well get ’ere in time to run
the ’orses up.”
He removed the battered
saddle and turned the grey loose.
“There y’are, Smith’s Weekly,”
he said, “go and get a bellyful of
that good grass, and y’ won’t
know y’self in a coupla weeks.”
“He looks as though be could
do with a good feed,” I
remarked.
“Yair.” Still holding his
saddle, Wonga was shrugging
his shoulders and scratching his
ribs with his elbows. “It’s been
a bit light-on round the town
lately. Too many bloody goats
around.”
“Better put your saddle away
and take your swag down to the
quarters,” I suggested. “Break-
fast ’ll be on shortly.”
He carried the saddle into the
saddle-room, still scratching
energetically with his elbows.
A moment later he came out
again, scratching furiously with
one hand while the other groped
about inside his shirt.
“Got the pup all right,” he
announced, dragging it carefully
out.
I am, and always have been,
a sucker for dogs, but the pup
Wonga pulled out of his shirt
would have captivated anyone.
It was a fat bundle of blue fur,
beautifully marked, with a dark
stripe along the back and,
unusual in the breed, a pure-
white chest.
I took him from Wonga and
examined him carefully. He
was literally crawling with fleas.
No wonder Wonga scratched
himself! I put him on the
ground and we both watched
him sniff eagerly around our
feet.
“That’s a hell of a nice pup,
Wonga,” I said.
“Yair,” he agreed. “Bloody
little sneezer, ain’t ’e?” (thereby
unwittingly christening the pup).
“Bloke’s missus wanted a quid
for ’im, but I talked ’er down
to ten-bob.”
Ten-bob! I didn’t know it
then, but if I had paid Wonga
ten-pounds for that pup I would
only have been paying a fraction
of his value.
I made him up a bed in the
saddle-room, begged a dish of
milk from Carrie, and hoped
for the best. Finding himself
alone for the first time in his
young life he would probably
intensely annoy Carson by
yelping the whole time I was
away. But I could not help that.
Fortunately the saddle-room was
a fair distance from the house.
After breakfast Wonga and I
started mustering the spare
horses, a big job for two men.
However, we attempted noth-
ing spectacular; we brought
them in in small mobs and were
content that nothing escaped us.
And right from the start it was
obvious that Wonga was a born
stockman, one of those men
with the rare knack of always
being where they are needed
most. Later, when he became
part of the regular mustering-
team, we used to say that Wonga
knew a beast was going to break
from the mob before the beast
had actually made up its mind.
The Batson brothers arrived
about midday, and Carson went
out with them to set-up camp
and show them where to start
on the fencing. He went in his
beloved tilly, of course, happy
to be doing something really
useful; pleased that I had
picked two men he knew.
Wonga and I got our
youngsters drafted-off in time
for me to bath the pup and
relieve him of most of his fleas.
Watching the process, Wonga
said, “Callin’ ’im Sneezer, eh?
Seems a bloody silly name for
a dorg. If it’d been me I’d ’ave
called ’im Fleaser. So’d you if
you’d ’ad to carry ’im twenty-
mile in y’r shirt.”
He scratched his ribs reflec-
tively at the memory.
During the next few weeks
I realised how right Curly had
been when he said Wonga was
the best horsebreaker this side of
the black stump. He never got
flustered, never lost his temper
and never let a horse buck. He
treated his horses as human-
beings, talking to them inces-
santly, scolding them in a mild
way occasionally, and always
exhibiting the amazing confi-
dence that scorns the idea that
a horse will kick. To see him
wandering casually around a
half-handled colt or filly was
to see animal-training at its best
—a complete and fearless
understanding.
Once when he ran his hand
down the rump of a particularly
nervous filly she flinched
violently and hunched her hind-
quarters as though about to lash
out. I expected her to kick
Wonga halfway across the yard,
because he made no attempt to
dodge. He just stood there with
that worried expression on his
face, staring reproachfully at the
filly’s flattened ears and rolling
eye.
“Now, Gawd strike me
’andsome,” he said mildly,
“what’s the matter with y’?
Ain’t that just like women?
Gettin’ ideas in their ’eads as
soon as a man pays ’em a bit
of attention. You want to wake-
up to yourself, me girl. Don’t
think I’m tryin’ to square-off.
I’m tell in’ y’ this for your own
good. See? Go on actin’ like
that every time a man says
good-day to y’ and you’ll finish-
up an old maid.”
His hand was back on her
rump, stroking it gently, and
you could see her nervous-
tension relaxing as he talked.
Time meant nothing to him.
Where another man would have
lost patience with an obstinate
colt Wonga would pull out his
makings, squat on his heels and
say, “Time you and me ’ad a
bit of a smoke, eh?”
He’d say it in such a way you
would almost expect him to roll
a cigarette for the colt.
Sometimes we rode the
youngsters out to see how the
Batsons were progressing with
their fencing, sometimes we
exercised them on the cattle in
the weaner-paddock, and once
we yarded a killer with two of
them.
It was amazing how those
Yakaparni horses took to cattle-
work. And it was even more
amazing to see how Sneezer took
to it. We had yarded about
twenty-head, with the killer, and
were coming out from smoke-oh
when Wonga suggested taking
the pup down to the yard “to
let ’im see what a cow smells
like.”
I carried him tucked under
one arm and kept him there
while we moved the cattle into
the small drafting-yard. He was
obviously excited. So much so
that Wonga said, “Put ’im down
and give ’im a go, eh?”
I put him down, an eager
little ‘ blue ball, fur already
bristling and ears straining to
prick alertly. There was no
doubt about him knowing what
to do. Without a sound he
pounced on the nearest cow and
sank his teeth into her hock.
He didn’t get away with it, of
course. The cow let drive and
kicked him clear through the
rails. The pup gave two yelps,
more of indignation than fear,
and scrambled back into the
yard. His intention to resume
the attack was obvious, but I
grabbed him smartly and carried
him off. Not for anything would
I have risked having that
wonderful courage kicked and
trampled out of him before he
was old enough to dodge.
He didn’t get away with it, of course. The cow let drive and kicked him clean
through the rails.
“Not a bad breed of dorg,”
Wonga commented. “I reckon
you got y’r ten-bob’s worth.”
I told Carson about the
incident that evening, and he
snorted, “Damned dogs! I
don’t know what you want to
keep the blasted things for.”
The following morning the
pup refused the fresh meat I
put in front of him. He seemed
listless and uncomfortable, and
I was wondering what ailed him
when he solved the mystery and
ended his discomfort by heaving
up an enormous amount of fresh
beef. There was nothing wrong
with the quality of the meat; it
was a choice piece from last
night’s killing, and it had been
carefully cut into small cubes. It
was the quantity that had
proved Sneezer’s undoing. His
small stomach had been upset by
overkindness and his own greed.
Placing the blame was not
difficult. Wonga would never
interfere with the pup’s feeding,
neither Mrs. Carson nor Carrie
ever came out to the saddle-
room, and old Dan, the rousie,
had not finished the milking.
I remembered then that
Carson had finished cutting-up
and slipped unobtrusively from
the meat-house while I was still
salting.
That was on Council Day.
After breakfast Councillor
Carson went off, muttering that
his blasted collar was damn’
near throttling him, and that
he was hanged if he knew why
a man had to get all dressed-up
just to attend an infernal
council-meeting. All waste of
good time, anyway. For two
pins he’d resign.
Mrs. Carson and I had quite
a long conversation over lunch
that day. In her quiet, dignified
way she was both entertaining
and amusing. I liked most her
attitude towards her husband.
It was obvious that she was
fond of him, and though she
never took his outbursts of rage
seriously she never ridiculed or
reproved him. No woman could
have lived with Carson for so
many years without a fair
amount of tolerance, but Mrs.
Carson was the most tolerant
woman I have ever known.
“He loves to make a fuss
about it,” she said, when I
mentioned Carson’s attitude
towards shire-council meetings.
“But he really thoroughly enjoys
his meetings. He’s been a
member of the shire council for
over twenty-years, and I’m quite
sure he’s convinced it wouldn’t
function without him.”
“But he never seems to like
the idea of going to town,” 1
pointed out.
“Except on council-days he
hates it, # unfortunately.” Mrs.
Carson’s smile was a little
rueful. “He’s a confirmed stay-
at-home, and I’ve either got to
go away for a holiday by my-
self or drag the most unwilling
husband in Queensland along
by sheer will-power. I used to
think he’d enjoy himself once he
got right away. But he doesn’t;
he’s just plain miserable. Once
when we were staying at
Lennon’s in Brisbane he made
the most awful fuss because he
couldn’t get corned-beef for
breakfast. He told the head-
waiter that if he ever came to
Brisbane again he’d bring his
own so-and-so corned-beef in a
sugar-bag. I’m used to him. He
only said it in the hope of


shaming me into saying we’d
come home.”
“And how did the head-
waiter react?”
“Oh, he was one too good for
Joseph. He thanked him most
graciously for his generous offer,
and said he’d see that the sugar-
bag was washed and returned
to him,
“I’m afraid,” she went on,
“our daughter doesn’t take quite
such a tolerant view. She
inherits a wee bit of her father’s
temperament, and girls are apt
to be very sensitive about their
parents’ behavior in public.”
TULIA CARSON was attend-
** mg Australia’s most expen-
sive and exclusive school for
girls. Mrs. Carson was not being
snobbish when she told me the
name of the school; she was
simply answering my question.
I had seen an enlarged snapshot
of the child mounted on one of
the station horses, and although
the snap was not a good one it
was clear enough to show a
plain, small girl, pigtailed,
freckled and apparently very
proud of her ill-fitting jodhpurs.
“I’m afraid you’ll have to get
her own special horses in for her
when she comes home for the
Christmas-holidays,” Mrs. Car-
son said apologetically. “I don’t
know where she gets it from, but
she’s crazy about riding. She’ll
probably pester the life out of
you to take her everywhere you
go, but you mustn’t let her
be a nuisance to you. Tell her
to' find some other way of
amusing herself if she worries
you.”
From Julia we drifted into an
easy conversation about the
neighbors and the residents of
Dilargo. Mrs. Carson apologised
for the lack of social life on
Yakapami, and explained that,
owing to her husband’s reluc-
tance to leave the place, they
rarely attended the race-meetings
or other events in the district.
“Though there’s no reason
why you shouldn’t go to them,”
she added. “You can represent
the family. I believe they have
some quite gay dances in
Dilargo. The boys all drink too
much, of course, but so long as
they don’t get too wild I don’t
suppose it matters. After all, it’s
only three or four times a year.”
She was a member of the
Country Women’s Association,
though not a very active one,
transport to and from the meet-
ings being the main problem.
Sometimes her husband drove
her in, and occasionally a neigh-
bor called for her. A road ran
through Yakaparni "to several
station - properties, but the
through-traffic kept to the mail-
route, which by-passed the
house. Once a week the mail-
man left the mail in a box
nailed to an ironbark-tree about
a mile away. Dan usually
collected it, and occasionally
Carson drove over for it in the
tilly.
That mailbox caused quite a
lot of amusement, because it was
the scene of the battle of the
skull —the skull of an old
bullock with long, upsweeping
horns. No one seemed to know
who first put the skull on top
of the box, but there it sat, a
universally recognised feature of
the Yakaparni mailbox.
Carson hated it, or pretended
to. Whenever he went for the
mail he tore the skull down and
hurled it as far away as he
could. Within a day or two it
would be back on the box again.
He blamed Dan for replacing it,
swore the old rousie did it just
to annoy him, and was con-
stantly threatening to sack him
if he caught him at it. Old Dan,
always terrified of Carson s
rages, swore he had nothing to
do with it.
He may have been innocent.
Personally I doubted it. I
always had a feeling that he
started it, knowing that after a
while others would carry on
where he left off. And they did
carry on. Passing drovers
replaced it, the mailman picked
it up and put it back, our own
stockmen acquired the habit,
and I was even guilty of replac-
“I’m tillin’ y' this f’r your own good. See?”
ing the thing myself a couple of
times.
The old mailbox developed
dry-rot, and Carson replaced it
with a new one. Next day the
skull was sitting on the new box.
Mick, who loved to see Carson
fly into a rage, reported this glee-
fully, and Carson swore he’d
take a shotgun over there and
put a charge of shot into the
next culprit.
The affair had by then
developed into a game —a game
that did a lot towards revealing
Carson’s real nature. Had his
dislike of the decorated mailbox
been genuine, his remedy was
simple. All he had to do was
to toss the skull into the tilly
and cart it away. But I think,
in his own way, he enjoyed the
game, probably got a kick out
of speculating on how long the
skull would stay down or who
would be the most likely one to
put it up again.
“Of course he enjoys it, Bob,”
Mrs. Carson said. “I feel quite
sure that if he went over for the
mail and found the wretched
skull on the ground he’d feel
most hurt.”
She also confirmed my theory
about Carson’s dislike of stock-
work. We were discussing the
C.W.A., and she said, “Now
that you’re here to look after the
cattle-work there’s no reason
why Joseph shouldn’t take me
in to all the meetings. You
know, it’s a strange thing for a
man who was brought up on a
cattle-station, but he has always
hated mustering. He pretends
to hate taking me into Dilargo,
too, but I think he enjoys talking
to people in there. I know he’s
very fond of old Dr. Greer.”
I gathered that everybody in
the district liked the doctor. They
liked him for his professional
ability, and they liked him for
his own personality. Mrs. Greer
was president of the C.W.A.,
and there was also a daughter,
Carla. Somehow I gathered the
impression that Carla was neither
young nor attractive.
CHAPTER VIII
THAT first season on Yaka-
parni was a good one, and,
like all good seasons, it brought
a plague of ticks.
“I’ll have to dig-up some
men and start dipping,” I told
Carson.
“Yes,” he assented gloomily.
“But I dunno where you're
going to get the men. You U
have to take the Batsons off
fencing, and use them. They re
the only ones that know the
country.”
“Leave them where they are
for the present,” I said. “They’re
doing a good job, and I’ll
manage without them.’’
I had already sounded Wonga
out, and felt confident that with
a little help from him and Curly
Ryan I would pick-up a good
team. Wonga would, of course,
be one. On the subject of know-
ing the country he was most
comforting.
“Know it!” he scoffed. “I
could find me way around
Yaka on a dark night with me
eyes shut. Mick Grey, the
bloke I was tellin’ you about,
knows it too. Him and me was
possum-shootin’ on it all last
season.”
I got Mick Grey and two
others, a likely-looking young
chap named Steve Hartley and
a thin slip of a lad called Duffy
Spooner. Duffy’s proper name
was Reg, but no one ever called
him by it. He was the one of the
bunch I felt doubtful about, for,
besides being delicate-looking, he
was deaf —so deaf that you had
to stand close to him and almost
shout to make yourself under-
stood. Only Wonga’s insistence
made me take him on.
“You take him, boss,” he said.
“You’ll never get a better
’orseman. Don’t worry about
’im bein’ deaf. Watches y’ like
a good dorg. And you can
work ’im same as a dorg. Just
wave y’r hands.”
I never had cause to regret
taking Duffy on. There were
times when I lost my temper
and cursed his deafness,
but they were only rare
incidents, quickly for-
gotten in the laughter
that always followed our
crude method of attracting
his attention. He had just
turned eighteen when he
first came to Yakaparni,
and though he looked
frail and delicate he soon
proved he could keep up
with the rest of us.
Every man of that team
was a good horseman,
each in a different way.
Steve could and would ride
a rough horse if it were
not too bad. Quite often
he was thrown. He was a good
all-round stockman, a good
scrub-rider and fond of his
work. Like the others, and like
all really good stockmen, he was
useless at anything other than
stock-work.
I would put Duffy down as
the prettiest horseman I have
ever seen, a lad with perfect
hands on a horse and a seat that
made him a joy to watch. He
simply seemed part of the horse.
Like Wonga, he had patience
and. the ability to soothe his
mounts and prevent them from
bucking. Rarely did a horse
buck with Duffy. When it did,
he rode it beautifully, holding it
together and scolding it till it
stopped. He loved horses, really
loved them, good and bad.
Mick was his direct opposite
—an untidy, sloppy horseman
who looked as though he could
easily be thrown. How deceptive
those appearances were! He was’
recognised as the best rough-
rider in the district. Completely
fearless with an outlaw horse,
utterly reckless in scrub, he
never took anything seriously.
Life to Mick was one big laugh.
He laughed at everything, once
provoking Carson into calling
him a “bloody irresponsible
half-witted jackass.”
Mick laughed even more
heartily at that.
Curly Ryan had warned me
that Mick did a bit of poddy-
dodging when things were slack.
Nothing to worry about, Curly
hastened to assure me. He might
lift a few head of cleanskins now
and then and sell them to one of
the small cow-cockies around the
township. He had got away with
a few horses in his time, too,
though nothing had actually
been proved against him.
It seemed that anything with-
out a brand on it was a direct
challenge to Mick. The Dilargo
police-sergeant had been trying
to catch up with him for two
years, and had sworn to get him
in the end.
Not that Mick ever operated
in a big way. The few head he
lifted wouldn’t worry any
station-owner, and, as he often
said, it served them right if they
wouldn’t bother to brand their
calves. He regarded poddy-
Carson.... blamed Dan for
replacing it, swore the old
rousie did it just to annoy him.
dodging as a joke, a mildly
exciting form of sport. His main
trouble was that he laughingly
boasted about it, which was why
the police-sergeant had sworn
he would never let-up on him.
Carson was furious when he
heard I had given Mick a job.
“That damned cattle-duffing
scoundrel!” he roared. “We
won’t have a calf left on the
place once he learns the run
of it.”
It was quite a job, but in the
end I managed to convince him
that Mick already knew the
country and would be less
danger on the mustering-team
than roving around on the
loose.
We left for Buckley’s Yards
on a Monday morning, and I
felt that Carson was not at all
favorably impressed with my
team. He was certain we would
never find half the cattle, certain
Duffy would be useless, and
equally certain that in some
mysterious manner Mick would
get away with a few calves. He
was also annoyed because
I had talked him into putting a
few extras like flour, onions and
a couple of pumpkins in with
the camp-rations.
“Where do you think you’ll
get the time for fancy cooking?”
he demanded. “You’re sup-
posed to be going mustering,
not picnicking.”
But, as always, Carson’s bark
was worse than his bite. He
not only put in the things I
asked for, he added a few fresh
vegetables from his garden.
I had asked him if I could
leave Sneezer in the care of old
Dan, as he was still too young
to begin work.
“What,” said Carson indig-
nantly, “trust him to that
doddering old fool! He’d either
poison him or starve him to
death. I’ll look after the pup.”
FROM every point of view,
that muster was a success.
Admittedly, we took twice as
long over it as Carson would
have done, but we got the cattle.
We lost a few. That was
inevitable in heavily-timbered
country and with a herd that
Wonga described as “about as
wild and uneducated as a mob of
flamin’ scrub-turkeys.”
By letting them spell on
shady dinner-camps while we
boiled our quartpots, and by
letting them string-out on the
drives to the yard, we at least
approached the business of
yarding-up without frayed
tempers and hot and bewildered
cattle.
Given time, a few years
probably, I knew I would have
those same rogue-cattle walking
placidly into the yard. For the
present we were content to coax
them in, wheeling back the ones
that broke, holding grimly to the
others.
In those yardings, the different
natures and temperaments
showed-up strongly. Wonga
could smell trouble before it
started, and was always in the
best position to prevent it. Duffy
swooped and wheeled with the
grace of a swallow, his eyes
darting from the mob to me,
constantly alert for the slightest
signal. Steve had no outstanding
points ; he was just a good stock-
man doing his job.
Mick supplied the spectacular
note. He performed amazing
feats of horsemanship, but he
was like an overeager cattledog,
always anxious for a beast to
break. He was in his element
then, on to the runaway like a
flash, looking for an opportunity
to shoulder it back, but wanting
most to get a good run for his
money. The faster and more
determined the beast the more
Mick enjoyed himself.
Laughing boisterously, riding
boisterously, he declared he
hadn’t had so much fun for
years. With him I had the feel-
ing that, while he was the ideal
tool for taming a wild herd, he
could be a menace once we got
the cattle really quiet. If there
was no trouble he would be
liable to make it, just for the
hell of it.
Ultimately my feeling turned
out to be quite right, and I found
myself echoing Carson’s irate
statement that he was a “bloody
irresponsible half-witted
jackass.”
Yet, despite our different
natures, we had one thing in
common. To each one of us the
loss of a single beast was a sign
of incompetence, a disgrace that
would take a lot of living down.
Although Carson’s last muster
had been a branding-muster, we
branded an amazing number for
such a quick follow-on. Most
of them were calves that had
escaped last time, but, much to
Mick’s delight, we yarded a lot
of big cleanskins.
The very sight of a big clean-
skin excited Mick. To see one
break was sheer joy to him.
Almost every evening he asked
(Continued on next page)


*T(teJe
S y
J£/uutds
n
AJG
m
nm
ate fruuiujactuSied and
dUtkilnded fry. Ikejf&do/ujK) ofr
HENRY JONES
CO-OPERATIVE UMITED
yiflanujacturen an d Packers of
JAMS . CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES • ASPARAGUS
SOUPS . FRUIT JUICES
EVAPORATED APPLES
CANNED GREEN PEAS
HOPS AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Psc[unes and branches in
AUSTRALIA . NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA • ENGLAND
— 4qenci.es: — shipping insurance
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
me when we’d be shifting camp
to the Brigalow Yards.
“Gawd,” he said, licking his
lips in anticipation, “there's
some big cleanskins in the scrubs
down there! ”
That was one of the engaging
things about Mick ; he was not
in the least concerned over the
fact that the capture of those
cleanskins would put no extra
money in his pocket. The chase
was the big thrill, the capture
the reward, and the smell of
burning hair as the brand went
on was the satisfying climax.
Because I wanted to work the
newly-broken horses on the
easier days, we moved in to the
homestead and mustered from
there before doing the Brigalow
Yard end. Carson was a bit
staggered when he saw the
branding-cards from Buckley’s
Yards. He asked no questions,
but he obviously found it hard
to believe he had missed so
many.
His outlook when he moved
our gear out to the Brigalow
Yard was much less pessimistic.
I think he had expected us all to
get hopelessly bushed in those
first few weeks.
took the horses out in an
atmosphere of excited
expectancy, a n atmosphere
which lasted until we packed-up
to come home, and which was
to be a feature of every day
spent there for many musters.
With so much dense scrub about,
it was rare for a day to pass
without its quota of thrills, and
often spills.
Thrills and spills. We got the
horses up before daylight, and
sunrise would find us picking our
way quietly along the edge of the
scrub, speaking rarely, and then
only in whispers. The wilder
cattle fed-out from the scrub
at night and returned to it early
in the morning. We planned to
intercept them on the way back,
and quite often we succeeded.
Someone would hold up a
hand, point and whisper,
“Cattle r
Nothing else, but even the
horses caught the tense feeling.
It might be a big mob or it might
be a small one. There might be
cleanskin cows with calves in it,
there might be wild old scrubber
bullocks, big mickeys or a
dangerous scrub bull prepared to
charge anything that disturbed
him. Or, again, it might only be
a mob of old cows with calves
that Carson had branded last
time. You never knew. At the
moment of sighting they would
be little more than a glimpse of
red-and-white amongst the box-
saplings or outlying wilga-
Bushes.
The sighting of a mob was
announced in a whisper, but its
first move was proclaimed in a
shout, a united joyous battlecry
of “They’re off!”
Off for the refuge of the scrub,
with us racing madly to wheel
them before they j eached it;
racing with seeming recklessness,
yet carefully strung-out so that
there was no chance of anything
breaking-out behind the man
who swung the leaders, and
small chance of galloping over
the man in front of you if he
crashed.
Horses fell frequently in that
country, and it was wise to have
plenty of room between your
horse and the one ahead of you.
A good stockhorse and an
experienced stockman usually
get through a fall with little more
than a shaking, but if another
man should crash over them as
they were struggling to their feet
the resulting tangle could be
disastrous.
Often we yarded-up before
lunch, caught fresh horses and
went out again to catch the mobs
as they fed-out for the evening.
If the moon had been suitable
we would have gone off after our
evening meal and moonlighted
them.
We worked hard, from the
first crack of dawn until dark.
They were long days and hard
days, but the hardest of them
was never too hard for us, never
so hard that we couldn’t sit
around the campfire that night,
telling and retelling the high-
lights of the day, exaggerating
them, glorifying them and
boasting shamelessly.
Carson had been wrong when
he said we were going mustering,
not picknicking. We combined
the two. He was wrong when
he said we would have no time
for fancy cooking. We made
the time, and Wonga did the
fancy cooking. Mick had hidden
an old shotgun in his swag, and,
as Duffy stumbled off in the
half-light to get the horses in,
Mick would slip away with his
shotgun.
There was nothing sporting
about his efforts. He shot the
ducks on the water before they
were properly awake, and
Wonga turned them into the
most delicious stews 1 have ever
tasted.
Wonga’s cooking had a touch
of magic in it. It never inter-
fered with the day’s work. He
migljt hang a petrol-tin over a
smouldering log or stand a
campoven in the ashes before we
went off in the morning; never
worry or fuss over it; yet always
the contents came out cooked to
perfection.
Often we had to sit around in
the dark, waiting for our evening
meal, but when Wonga lifted the
lid off the campoven we knew
the waiting had been worth
while.
“Corned-beef and duck-stoo,”
he would announce. “Come and
get it or I’ll chuck it out.”
“Like hell you will,” we’d tell
him.
There was rarely any talking
during the meal, but after it was
over we spread our swags out
around the fire and settled down
to out-lie each other.
In Carson’s day everyone slept
in the hut. We used it only as
a storeroom, preferring to sleep
around the fire, where we could
draw inspiration for our lies
from the flickering flames, or
perhaps lounge back and gaze
up at the stars or the dark
silhouettes of the big gumtrees
along the lagoon.
Tired? Of course we were
tired. But we were not worn-
out or irritable, and there were
so many incidents to be dis-
cussed before we dropped-off.
Over in the yard the bellowing
of the cattle rose and fell, some-
times dropping to a low fitful
moaning, only to rise presently
to a united defiant roar. Some-
times the noise fell away com-
pletely, and an uneasy, uncanny
silence brooded over the yard,
rousing us from deep sleep.
Anything might happen then.
A motherless calf might start
f others going until the noise
gradually returned to normal, or
the silence might be broken by
the sudden thunder of galloping
hooves as the whole mob rose to
its feet and raced to one end of
the yard in a blind panic.
If the yards had been old and
weak, and the cattle had not
been carefully split-up in
different ones, the entire mob
could have broken loose in one
of those rushes, smashing heavy
rails and hurling them aside by
sheer weight of numbers.
But oUr yards were sound,
and the cattle always well split-
up in the yards. The thunder of
hooves would be drowned by
the noise we were all waiting
for, the concerted rumbling
bellow of the mob as it milled
away from the heavy rails.
The blankets near me would
stir, and Mick’s voice say, “Jeez,
I thought they were gone that
time.”
And Wonga, from the other
side of the fire, would prophesy,
“There’ll be some sore ribs and
thick ’eads over there in the
mornin’.”
CHAPTER IX
WE were not satisfied with the
results of the Brigalow
Yards muster. We had done
better than Carson had done—
the number of cleanskins
branded proved that —but we
felt we had only got the easy
stuff.
Right from the start I had
made it clear that we were not
going into the scrubs. I didn’t
know the country well enough,
but I did know how much time
could be wasted by following
tracks into unknown scrub.
Mick did his best to persuade
me to change my mind. “There’s
big patches of open country in
there, boss,” he said. “And
water, too. Me and Wonga
camped on a waterhole in there
when we was possumin’. We
seen big bullocks and mickeys
with ’orns on ’em that long!”
Mick’s arms stretched in wild
exaggeration. “Ain’t that right,
Wonga?”
Wonga nodded gravely.
“That’s right,” he agreed. “Old
Joe Carson’d get a bloody
shock if he knew what was in
there.”
The pressure of general feel-
ing was strong; but I said, “I’m
not doubting you. The scrubs
down here are probably full of
cattle that never come out.
They’re in there living on the
pear. But we’re not wasting time
on them until we’ve got all the
regular country cleaned-up.”
Mick was quick to put his
own interpretation on my words.
“We’ll give ’em a go then,
eh?” he said eagerly. “Put in
another week down ’ere when
we finish the open country.”
“We’ll see how things go,”
was all I would say.
But it was obvious they had
all made up their minds that I
would weaken when the time
came. Even Duffy, who had
only caught fragments of the
conversation, edged closer to
me and said in his flat monotone,
“We goin’ to have a crack at
running the scrubbers when the
muster’s over?”
He spoke quietly, as most
deaf people do, but his eyes
were shining with excitement.
{To be continued next week)
A SMALL TOWN ON THE PLAINS
No man alive but remembers how blackfrost or blue
Or stormy weather compounded with walls and tiles,
But no man alive remembers how roadless the miles
Ran all of a skewbald piece to the hawk’s-eye view:
Did the founding fathers lack commemorative art,
Knowledge or legend green to the childish heart?
Or was it a levelling wind, the Bible slammed
As some say, on their virtues? The colonial ghost
Shrinking back from a generation lost—
Licked all one way like tussocks windily combed—
In the time-paying unassuageable dream
To wallow in contentment’s quiet and cream?
Or when was the town young? The shagpat face
Of its first grocer, mayor, gold-digger’s crony,
And collared face of his wife, strained and bony,
Are shuffled from old-timer’s album losing a race
With the household clock; sepia shades provoke
Childish giggles before spring-cleaning smoke.
For no man alive but learned his native air
Through immediate poppies and dewy wires and smells
Of making toast and frying bacon; bells
Of the schoolhouse rung; quick sparrow-scare
When sharp and dark by hedges briared and burred
The cattledog whips a bark on his lumbering herd.
And knocking lionheads on the villa doors
Learned at noon whose flinching secrets creep
Dumb to the vine-leaves shelled in sour sleep;
How often brooms must dance on incorrigible floors
For all the guilty dust that cleanser wives
Have shaken and gossiped out of local lives.
Or known the train that plumed which mother s boy
Away to seaboard towns and the lucky go—
Because the harvester was too panting slow;
Or whose girl takes the highroad in a joy
Of travelling cloud, waving back her fears
To the grey circle described with monotonous years.
He knows the small town sucks a beaming straw,
Is friendly as its pub, not strict with time
But hard trimmer of love and death and crime,
Likes no strange variant of behavior’s law.
Its bumpkin street's gape on yellowing plains
Where looks no man with labor cooled in his veins,
Drumming his paper to a whistled song,
Homeward and squinting past the flowering hedge
But searched the miles to hills’ answering edge;
No man aloije and alive when shade stretched long
But knew his heart go out where the last hawk sighed
Rising and dropping to rise unsatisfied.
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CLAUDE BENJAMIN HARRIS late
of 175 Queen Street Grafton in the State
of New "South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that ETHEL MARGARET HARRIS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 738 of
1956 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three (3) years
and upwards If you wish to defend, you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 3rd day of September 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. K. BRUDE-
NELL-WOODS & CO., Solicitors, of 90
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. _____
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GORDON LESLIE HODDER late of
Bimbi in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that NELLIE HODDER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 875
of 1956 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three (3)
years and upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 3rd day of Sep-
tember 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS. K.
BRUDENELL-WOODS & CO., Solicitors,
of 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURTJF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD VICTOR MYERS late of
10 Belmore Street Hay in the State of
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARJORIE DOREEN MYERS has Sled
a Petition for Divorce No. 828 of 1956
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three (3) years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 3rd day of September 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. K. BRUDENELL-
WOODS & CO., Solicitors, of 90 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN" THE" SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER CHWESIK late of 828
Liverpool Street East Bankstown in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARETE AUGUSTE
CHWESIK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3305 of 1954 on the grounds
of repeated assaults and cruel beatings
habitual drunkenness and cruelty and
habitual drunkenness and failure to sup-
port If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
3rd day of September 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. K. BRUDENELL-WOODS &
CO., Solicitors, of 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALESI—ln 1 — In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH JAMES QUINLIVEN late
of Dunbar Street Watson’s Bay Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that NORMA ELIZABETH QUIN-
LIVEN has filed. a Petition for Divorce
No. 2035 of 1956 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just qause or excuse for 3
years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by_ the 3rd
day of September 1956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. K. BRUDENELL-WOODS &
CO., Solicitors, of 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
r
w;
isso
V
n:aii »
1* <
FACTS
OFLIFEy
proved:
... &y University Sngineers.
You con rely on Esso Extra Motor Oil to give you the facts of life engine
life, that is. That's because, in completely independent tests carried out by
Australian university engineers, Esso Extra Motor Oil was proved to more
than double the life of automotive engines.
Not only that, but multi-purpose Esso Extra Motor Oil gives you the equivalent
of four more octane numbers in extra power and cleaner more efficient
operation, too. So drain and change to Esso Extra Motor Oil today.
TO 6/VE YOU MORE
engine fife
••
FROM YOUR
ATLANTIC
OIL
RETAILER
01-56.
ATLANTIC
OIL COM PA N Y
PTY.
LI M
SAUCE
By K. R. CRAGG
LIEUTENANT! There’s
a tank approaching.”
“We’re in no position
to repair a tank,
Sergeant.”
“Sir, it’s an enemy tank.
Mobile.”
“Oh. How far?”
“About four-miles, sir.”
“The desert is firm. We could
outdistance them in the utility.
Isn’t there petrol, somewhere?”
“Not enough to boil the billy,
sir.”
“If only we hadn’t run out of
petrol.”
“If only we hadn’t lost our
way, sir.”
“You should have checked my
plotting on the map, Sergeant!”
“Yes, sir. May I suggest, sir,
that we leave the tent? The
tent and the trucks, sir, will be
the first targets.”
“Yes. Yes. Sergeant, get the
men into defensive positions.”
“Sir, the men complain that
they were enlisted as tradesmen,
not soldiers.”
“They have rifles! Are they
going to stand about and be
shot-at?”
“The men have gone a little
distance, sir, and are lying in
the sand. Rifles aren’t much
good against a tank.”
“Organise something! Good
grief, Sergeant! You’ve been in
the Middle East two years. The
wireless! Have you radioed for
help?”
“It’s still not in working-order,
sir.”
“What has the wireless-tiffy
been doing?”
“A new man, sir. Came on the
same boat as yourself, sir.
Doesn’t know how to fix it.”
“What’s he being paid for,
dammit?”
“He was trade-tested at the
enlistment-depot. I think the
trade-testers need trade-testing,
sir. You know how it is. I think
he made a crystal-set once.”
“Well, we are in a mess.' No
doubt the Army has a set of
initials for even such a situation
as this.”
“N.A.M.M.U., sir.”
“What is that?”
“Non-adjustable military
muck-up, sir. Seems very little
chance of it being a S.A.M.M.U.,
now.”
“S.A.M.M.U.?”
“The self-adjusting type.”
“This is hardly the appropriate
time for facetiousness, Sergeant.”
“No, sir. Sir! May we leave
the tent?”
“Come along.”
“WHERE are the men,
** Sergeant?”
“Dispersed to the left of the
trucks. Let’s hurry, sir. There
are several depressions that will
shelter a man.”
“Our men are well concealed,
Sergeant. What was that! That
flash!”
“Lie down! The Jerry’s
opened fire. Quick, sir. Down!”
Bang!
WELL, Lieutenant, your war
was short - and - sweet:
three days. Two days at base
and one to lose us in this damn’
desert.”
“Corporal! Corporal Silk!”
“I think, Sarge, that it was a
piece of his tin-hat what killed
the Lieutenant.”
“That you, Smithy?”
“Yes, Sarge.”
“Where did the corporal go?”
“Beyond the trucks. In a
direct line with the tank.”
“Anyone go with him?”
“No, Sarge. All over this
side.”
“Well, all you blokes keep
your heads down! Don’t move.
Anybody.”
Bang!
“Sarge. What’re we going to
do?”
“Lie doggo. And keep quiet.
All of you.”
“Sarge. Can’t we tell ’em we
ain’t goin’ to fight?”
“Do you think they’ve got
room in a tank for eleven
prisoners?”
“You muttonhead, Butch.
And how would you tell them?”
“Wave a white handkerchief,
or sumpin’.”
“Who’s got a white nose-rag
in this Army?”
“I’d wave me flamin’ under-
pants.”
“And what color would they
be now, Butch?”
“Sarge. There’s a Jerry got
his head sticking out the turret.
Will I shoot him?”
“No. You put your head
down.”
Bang!
“There goes the E-trailer.”
“I told you blokes, keep your
heads down!”
“Hope they blow-up the lot.
Then they might clear off.”
“After they machine-gun the
lot of us.”
“Sarge” -
“Oh, shut up.”
“But, Sarge! There’s a sand-
storm coming up.”
“There’s no wind.”
“Fair dinkum, Sarge. In the
east. Coming around that ridge.”
“You’re right, Smithy. Tell
you what. It’s vehicles. Fellers!
The Jerry is clearing out! Must
be some of our mob coming.
Keep your heads down. The
Jerry can still let fly with his
machine-guns.”
HTHE sergeant watched the
German tank, like a beetle
now, scurrying under the after-
noon sun for the western
horizon.
The dust-cloud in the east
approached almost as rapidly as
the tank departed. Presently, the
sergeant could see that the dust
wasn’t being raised by vehicles,
but only by a herd of gazelles.
The sergeant detailed a party
to bury the lieutenant and the
corporal.
Butch had a complaint: “I
enlisted as a fitter, not an under-
taker.”
“You remember you signed a
pink paper?”
“Yeah, Sarge.”
“Well, I’ll tell you something.
You signed up for duty twenty-
four hours a day, seven days a
week, as a soldier, undertaker,
corpse, or anything else the
Army wants you to be.”
“Yeah? . And what’s the
Army going to do about getting
us outer here so’s we’ll be use-
ful?”
“You wait for a bus. The
rest of us will march. We start
an hour before sundown.
Where’s the babbling brook?”
“Here, Sarge.”
“Cookie, get a good meal
ready for 1700-hours. Best
tucker we’ve got. Also put out
hard-rations for eleven men for
three days.”
“Sarge, there isn’t no sign of
Corporal Silk. Direct hit, I
reckon.”
“All right, Smithy. The
lieutenant has a map and a com-
pass in his pockets. Let me have
them. Anything else, tie up in
a handkerchief. See if there’s
anything in the corporal’s kit-
bag : something that can be sent
home.”
The working-party dug the
lieutenant’s grave; then stood
about nervously, as though
expecting the sergeant to say a
prayer.
“All right, lfft him in.”
They lifted him in.
“Bloody crook, leaving a man
here, like this.”
In the sand.
For good.
Young faces grew taut as each
felt the width of the desert, the
breadth of Africa and the seas
around it, and knew his loneli-
ness.
The sergeant walked to the
tent. A shaft of sunlight came
through a shrapnel-tear on to the
lieutenant’s stretcher. On a box
lay the lieutenant’s first-aid dress-
ing. The sergeant removed the
safety-pin from it and pinned up
the tear in the tent-wall. Then
he lay down.
HE lifted his sun-blackened
hands and ran them over his
sun-blackened face, trying to
erase a vision of his own bones
whitening, forgotten, under the
desert sun. Like an old man, he
thought of death.
He thought: Lucky lieutenant,
you died in three days, in the
first flush, nervous, inexperi-
enced, just as I was at first.
Afraid you’d make an error,
afraid I’d find out. That was
nothing. Ther whole war’s a self-
adjusting military muck-up;
and what isn’t, is the other thing.
The main thing you didn’t have
time to learn is, that you came
here to stay.
“Sarge!”
“What the hell is it?”
“Mess-parade.”
The sergeant went out to his
men.
“Hey, Sarge. What’s the idea
marching at night?”
“Why? Are you afraid of the
dark?”
They ate. The sergeant went
about his job.
Check each man’s water-
bottle, hard-rations. See they
travel light. Lead them across
the desert back to their own
kind ; face the Court of Inquiry;
take the rap. Soldier-on.
ABORIGINAL DREAM-SONG
As 1 was singing, singing by the shore,
I saw the captain on the angry sea;
His long glass throws the captured sun to me
Here singing on the shore.
Jinnanna and Kooranna women sway .
With hidden faces, dancing with the wind,
Sighing and singing with a long sea sound,
Their faces turned away.
Ghost women travelling to their secret land,
Dancing and singing, hidden in their hair,
Melt with their dreaming song into the air
When once his feet feel sand.
Away. Away.
W.A.
RANDOLPH STOW.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
The Price of Death
By
Peter
England
SPREAD over some ten miles
of the mixed rain-forest
and undulating kunai-plain
which lay between the
Ramu River and the Schrader
Mountains on the north-eastern
fall of New Guinea was the
country of the Aiome people.
The Aiomes, on the whole,
were peaceful, industrious and
contented, as well they might be:
their food-gardens were extensive
and fertile; the river provided
fish and the forest a wide variety
of game.
For trading /purposes they
manufactured bows and spears
of black limbon-palm and fish-
lines from the fibres of the
pandanus ; these they exchanged
for sago from the people of Sabu,
clay saucepans and plates from
those of the Lau country, and
salt-ash from the half-wild
nomads of the Sogeram River.
Inter - tribal etiquette was
observed: trespassers on the
tribal hunting-grounds were
killed on sight; traders, too, who
asked exorbitant rates of barter,
or who offered inferior goods,
sometimes fell with an arrow
through the belly, as a warning
to others.
When a death occurred within
the tribe a council of the old
men was summoned, and
divination-rites were carried out
by Imerang and Yambisaul, the
keepers of the tambaran- house.
When the prescribed invocations
had been made, and the ritual
magic notes sounded on the great
sacred flutes, the tambaran
splits would reveal the identity
of the murderer; and his death,
or the death of one of his tribe,
would be demanded to square
the account.
There was an exception to this
rule: when the death bore the
trade-mark of the Little-Men-
Who-Kill—the mountain people ;
the Ambaula—no one would be
so foolish as to pursue the matter
further.
For the Little People, with
their ludicrous stature, barely up
to a man’s shoulder; with their
disarming, mischievous smile like
a child’s; with their quaint wide
cummerbunds and oversized
bark turbans and little else;
these comical little-ones were
professional murderers. Just as
the people of Sabu were pur-
veyors of sago, as those of the
Lau country were manufacturers
of clay pots, as the Aiomes them-
selves dealt in weapons of black
limbon, so the Little People
traded in murder.
They lived high up in the mists
of the mountainside, and they did
a thriving business: for who
would take the risks of a killing
himself when he could have his
enemy efficiently removed for a
small payment in trade? Why,
you could have a whole village
wiped out for half-a-dozen pigs
dnd a few baskets of sago.
Sometimes, when business was
slack, the Little Men would make
a raid on their own account:
striking like the flash of fire
which darts down from a stormy
sky, killing, looting and vanishing
again almost before the alarm
had been given. They killed
always at night, and their trade-
mark was that single stroke of
the tomahawk driven deep into
the victim’s skull. The killers of
the Little People never had to
strike twice.
If it was impossible to offer
defence to their lightning night-
raids, it was suicidal to attempt
to follow them to their hideouts
on the steep mountainside. Agile
as goats amongst the rocks and
precipitous spurs and broken
gullies, they could laugh at the
clumsy and labored efforts of the
plainsmen to catch up to them.
Here, too, they discarded their
tomahawks and used the bow -
long bows taller than themselves
—and, as a few foolhardy ones
had found out, too late, it is
much easier to shoot downhill
than up.
No, when the Little Men
killed, that was the end of it.
TTNDER the porch of his
thatched hut on the out-
skirts of the Aiome village of
M’logo, Kuangamo the Singer
sat dozing in front of a low-
burning fire.
A new moon, white and cold,
paused for a moment in its
descent over the black edge of
the mountains. Kuangamo sat
hunched over the fire, his arms
clasped around his knees; his
head had fallen forward in sleep.
He could hardly have arranged
himself more conveniently,
thought Kamindimi the Killer,
as he moved soundlessly into
position behind the sleeping
figure.
Gripping the shaft of his stone
tomahawk in two hands,
Kamindimi lifted it unhurriedly,
paused for the fraction of a
second at the top of the stroke,
and then brought it down with
swift precision on the centre-
back of Kuangamo’s skull. The
stroke of a craftsman: neat,
accurate and final; which, after
all, was only natural, since
Kamindimi had been a practising
murderer, like all his tribe, from
the age of fifteen, many years
before.
Kamindimi looked down with
calm professional interest and
satisfaction ; then he stooped to
pick up a scrap of bark from the
floor, wiped the blade of his
tomahawk and vanished back
into the shadows.
As the first golden fingers of
the dawn touched the leaves of
the forest trees, and brought back
to life the sleeping river, a sudden
piercing scream brought the men
of the village running, spears in
hand, from their huts. They
saw the wife of Kuangamo,
grief-crazed and crying out
wildly in her anguish, lying
across the carcass of her
husband ; they saw, too, the deep
cleft in his skull . . .
So died Kuangamo the Singer.
When the burial ceremonies
had been completed, and supplies
of food, clothing and ornaments
set out for the comfort of the
now homeless spirit, the women
of the village, their faces and
hair bedaubed in mourning
ashes, joined the bereaved wife
in the endless wailing chant of
sorrow for the dead.
'X'HE marriage of Kuangamo to
A Dai’ali, for such was the
woman’s name, had been
arranged primarily to liquidate a
family obligation which had been
incurred when an aged aunt, for
whom full payment had been
received, had died before she
could be handed over to her
equally-aged bridegroom. The
bride-price in this case had
included two very valuable pigs,
and since Kuangamo’s parents
were looking out for a strong
healthy wife for their good-for-
nothing son, Dai’ali’s family had
sensibly concluded that it was
better to part with a daughter
than to return two animals,
which were the envy of all their
neighbors. So things fell out
very well and everybody was
satisfied.
Even Kuangamo, who had not
been consulted in the matter at
all, had no cause for complaint:
Dai’ali was a prize on which
more than one of the young men
of M’logo had cast covetous eyes.
Tall, even for an Aiome woman
—and the Aiomes are people of
good stature —Dai’ali was in
everything perfectly propor-
tioned.
Although, at the time of
Kuangamo’s death, she was
seventeen years of age and had
been married since she was
fourteen, she had not yet carried
a child; her firm rounded
breasts, her fine waist and flat
belly, were those of a virgin.
Her wrists were small, her fingers
slender and tapering; her ankles
as trim as you would wish to
see; her knees and thighs, of a
shapely smoothness, yet gave a
pleasant suggestion of strength.
Her nose, pierced through the
septum for the reception of a
muruk bone or other ornament,
was cast in a mould of unusual
delicacy. Her dark eyes, which
roved perhaps rather more than
the rules of modesty indicated,
gave her an added piquancy.
Secretly, both families thought
that Dai’ali had the worse end of
the bargain. Kuangamo, from
his earliest years, had shown little
enthusiasm for the manly arts of
the chase and the use of spear
or bow and arrow. He had no
skill in the use of the stone adze
to fashion a por dugout canoe.
When the yam-planting time
came, he was seldom to be found
with the other men falling and
burning-off the forest trees so
that the women could dig and
plant the new gardens.
Instead, he spent his time in
singing, or trying-out novel
melodies on his bamboo flute.
Well, singing and dancing and
music were all very well in their
way, and at the proper time;
but to sit at home all day while
the other men were out hunting
or fighting: to sit at home in the
shade of a tree, humming songs
and playing on a little bamboo
flute —well, that was not to be
a man! Pity he was not more
like his cousin, Wonasi the
Hunter.
Wonasi the Hunter —now there
was a man indeed! Big,
powerful, handsome ; successful
in the chase as he was bold and
brutal in war; inclined to
swagger a bit, it was true; but
none the worse for that, thought
the owners of the dark eyes
which followed him from
beneath their downcast lashes.
Oddly enough, a bare week
after Kuangamo’s sudden death,
Wonasi strode into Dai’ali’s
house where she sat on the floor
with six or seven other women
of the village, her eyes red and
swollen after seven days’
ceremonial weeping. Wonasi
took her by the hand and drew
her to her feet and led her to
his own house on the other side
of the village square.
This arbitrary action naturally
caused not a little murmuring
and displeasure among the
members of the two affected
families; but since no one par-
ticularly wished to offend the
powerful Wonasi, and since he
would, in any case, have been a
possible claimant for the widow
of his deceased cousin, it was
finally decided not to interfere
in the matter.
WELL, Dai’ali settled down
remarkably well as the wife
of Wonasi the Hunter. Almost
overnight her eyes, which had
been red with weeping, achieved
a new and unwonted sparkle.
Wonasi showed his satisfaction
by the presents he gave to his
bride: necklets of cowrie-shell,
and armlets cunningly plaited
from the veins of the staghorn-
leaf by Ipa the Weaver. He
swaggered, if possible, more than
ever. In his infatuation he
forgot, for the nonce, the sport
and pleasure of the chase.
In the daytime he would walk
with Dai’ali down through the
yam-gardens and into the forest
beyond; there, in shady leaf-
strewn glades, or at the edge of
the trees where the soft couch-
grass grew along the margin of
the kunai, they lay and com-
forted one another after the
fashion of lovers. At sundown
they returned to their hut and
Dai’ali cooked the evening meal
over the fire in the porch.
One evening, after they had
eaten, and were sitting quietly
before the fire in the pleasant
light of a half-moon, someone
out of sight around the comer
of the hut gave a polite cough.
Wonasi sprang to his feet
and grasped his spear before
calling out: “Who is there?”
“Me! ” came back in a nervous
treble; and a diminutive figure
came round the corner. A boy
of, perhaps, eight years, a boy
of the Little People. Too young
to wear the warrior’s turban, his
hair was plastered with clay and
embellished with braids of
plaited fibre hanging down to
his waist. In one hand he carried
a miniature bow and three or
four arrows.
“Who are you, and what do
you want?” demanded Wonasi
again.
“I come from my father,
Kamindimi,” said the boy
nervously. “He sends you a
sign.”
He fumbled i» a net-bag which
hung from his shoulder, and
handed to Wonasi a leaf, a green
leaf shot with purple: the
tanket, the leaf of message or
of warning.
Wonasi took the tanket and
examined it closely. Then he
said: “It is well. Come back
tomorrow at this time; then I
shall give you the thing which
your father desires.”
day, when they arose
from their sleeping-mats
soon after dawn, Wonasi, on
some small pretext, sent Dai’ali
to carry a message to a neighbor.
When she had left the house
he reached up into the thatch
above one of the rafters and
drew forth a parcel wrapped in
soft bark. He sat on the floor
and opened it and looked at its
contents with satisfaction; this
was all his wealth.
Little cowrie- and tambu-shells
in profusion—some of them
strung together to be worn as
ornaments; necklets of dogs’-
teeth ; nose- and ear-decorations
of bone and of carved shell; the
mottled giri-giri, polished tusks
of the \vild boar, armlets both
plaited and carved. Lastly the
jewel of the collection, a superb
plate of gold-lip pearl-shell;
even in the dim light of the hut
its rainbow colors flickered like
a live flame.
Wonasi touched its surface
caressingly with his fingers. He
sighed as he laid it to one side
on the floor. Then he packed the
remainder of the trinkets back in
their parcel and stood up to
return them to their hiding-place.
As he did so, Dai’ali came into
the hut.
She saw the jewel at once,
and with a cry of delight she
bent down and picked it up. She
took it to the door and admired
its silken sheen and flashing
colors in the light of the sun ;
then she held it against her skin
like a pendant and turned back
into the hut to show Wonasi how
well it became her.
(Continued on page 27)
A VIEW OF LAKES’ ENTRANCE
From this high dune the world is a toy
Neatly and surprisingly made
Of cotton-wool smoke, red cardboard roofs
And celluloid water on which are bayed
At wharves a craftsman’s tiny ships;
How sweet are curving hills, displayed
In papier-mache decked with darker
Green of the wool-and-toothpick trees.
Observe the model motor-cars,
Painted cows and, in twos and threes,
Miniature people whose lives would seem
Free of full-scale complexities.
This world I hold in the palm of my hand
And watch the fishing-boats from above,
While ripples, treetops and puffing smoke
Stir where the breezes begin to move.
I blow my single wind on this world,
The inescapable wind of love.
victoria.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


Australian on England
Upside-down Emigrant
By TOM TROUT
ON the ship which brought
me to England seven
years ago were some
British families who pre-
ferred the expense of returning
to Britain to staying in Australia.
I refrained from any indelicate
probing myself, but I was con-
fidently assured by the ship’s
doctor, who had seen a few such
home-goings, that resentment at
the early closing of our pubs had
a lot to do with it.
Having been used to evening
wassail in the club-atmosphere
of their local, with all the con-
comitants of singing and shove-
halfpenny and darts, and not
denied their wives’ company
while at it, the men found the
Australian equivalents of stay-
at-home or go-to-the-flicks irra-
tionally dull.
That was a fly too big for me
to swallow. It’s always hard to
credit that anyone could dislike
one’s own country, and any
reasons they give inevitably seem
meaningless or utterly trivial. I
still find it hard to accept this
kind of thing as the principal
cause of a man defecting from
a new life with any oppor-
tunities, but easier to believe in
it as one of the straws which
add-up to the unbearable bale.
As a New Pommy trying to
shake some of the straws off his
own back, I’ve developed a
sympathy with all emigrants,
knowing now how hard it is to
throw off the pull of old habits,
and to stop yearning for the
things one could do, or have,
back home.
And I don’t mean only serious
things—like having one’s
children educated in the way one
was oneself, or being distrustful
of doctors because they or their
methods seem different from
those one has been used to —but
commonplace things like this
matter of having a drink.
Despite the greater liberality
of English licensing laws, it took
me a long time to get used to not
being able to go in for a cooler
in the late afternoon, when the
English pubs are closed. Habits
are acquired, of.course, and if
I were back in New South
Wales, I’d find myself grumbling
at the 10-o’clock closing, after
living in London, where they’re
open until eleven.
Here, I have to move about in
the provinces a lot, where they
also close at ten, and I miss the
chance of a night-cap after the
theatre or cinema. Back home
I’d also miss London’s civilised
amenity of bars in theatres and
concert-halls.
Not that British pubs are
always the delightful havens
Australians imagine. Many are
musty and dark, with standards
of hygiene which would not be
countenanced in Australia. And
the bars, being small, are often
quite as uncomfortably crowded
as are Sydney’s —during the six-
o’clock swill.
A stranger going into an
English local often gets a feeling
that he has gate-crashed a club
of which he is not a member.
Also, I find my tastes not suited
by English beer, which from the
barrel is lifeless, from the bottle
over-carbonated. Except the
excellent barley wines, which
have a kick to better Australian
beer’s, but are sold expensively
in nips, and are too heavy for
summer consumption.
The only cold beers here are
Continental lagers,- thin stuff,
sold from buckets of ice on the
counter, and also expensive,
though I was once left speechless
by a barmaid who whipped a
spoonful of ice into my beer
when I asked for it cold . . .
I don’t know how effective the
official information given to
intending emigrants has been,
but I’ve always found it frustrat-
ing trying to convey a proper
concept of space and distance to
English friends.
Conversely, I myself was not
prepared for the strong feeling
of claustrophobia London
inflicted on me during the first
few weeks. In the narrow, twist-
ing streets around my hotel, it
was through the eyes I suffered
most. Never more than a
hundred-yards before the view
was blocked by bricks and
mortar or fog. After intermin-
able-seeming rides in buses, the
streets would still be avenued by
Georgian pillars, instead of the
lawns and gardens of Australian
suburbia.
Although city-bred, a yearning
for the immensities of Australian
landscape still persists in me
naggingly, and is not satisfied by
the tiny, hedged fields and small,
haze-bound hills under a low
sky of the English countryside.
Only in the open parts of York-
shire have I experienced that
condign feeling of an illimitable
Nature, which puts man into his
proper, humble perspective.
Dryness is another quality I
crave for. {Pace the cocky
searching the sky for sign of a
rain-cloud!) I still remember
the thrill on first going to France
and finding grass which was a
golden-brown. And, during the
last hot summer’s “drought,”
seeing the dust rise under the
feet of the Morris-dancers on the
lawn outside the theatre at
Stratford-on-Avon.
I hope, by the way, that the
Opera House at Sydney’s Bene-
long Point will be given as
pleasant an approach as the
Memorial Theatre has in its
lawns by the river . . .
And then, the gum-boots!
Farmers in muddy fields in gum-
boots and neckties, navvies in
the rain in gum-boots and
leather coats, children playing in
gum-boots and macs, all put an
edge to my longing for a really I
hot sun.
For, though the English talk
of hot summers, it’s not the
temperature which soars, but the
humidity, making a heavy, claus-
trophobic, damp atmosphere in
which one sweats uncomfort-
ably. And, for my part, without
relief: no tram-rides to the
beach, no quick slipping under
a shower.
An unrugged Australian like
myself finds English waters too
cold for pleasure until the height
of summer ; by then the most
immediate London bathing-
places, such as the Serpentine,
have queues for the available
water-space!
True, every borough has its
heated, indoor baths open all
the year, but the fumes of
chlorine, or whatever the
disinfectant is, rising with the
steam, make an acrid smog
which I’ve never been able to
stomach. Anyway, swimming
indoors seems a perverse idea.
As for the great seaside-
resorts, I find myself feeling
sorry over the intense English
pleasure in them, as due to ignor-
ance of what the real thing is
like!
Apart from those places which
have only a pebbly shingle, the
beaches are huge expanses of
concrete-like, dun sand, set hard
enough for cars to drive over,
constantly damp from the great
tides which sweep right up to
the promenade-wall at the full,
making a hired deck-chair
necessary to escape rheumatism ;
the water a placid pewter lake a
quarter-mile away, or an angry
snarl of little waves crotcheting
onto the beach without a
minim’s pause, under a boister-
ous, cold wind.
No wonder such a variety of
background attractions fun-
fairs, dance-halls, theatres, piers,
mussels and whelks and
illuminations —is needed as a
distraction from this grimness!
Cornwall, I believe, has fine
sand and more sunshine. A
travelled Englishman I read says
Bude has better sand and surf
than Waikiki. Never having
been to either, I can’t disagree,
but there may be verification in
an enterprising Australian’s hav-
ing started a life-saving club
there, equipped even to line and
reel. But Cornwall is an expen-
sive distance from London for
a Saturday-afternoon swim!
Life-savers (English, not Aus-
tralian, variety) are known as
“And how are our stocks in the cellar, James?”
life-“guards,” one of the few
instances in which English and
American concur, while both
differ from Australian usage.
Which brings me to language
differences. While there are none
quite as puzzling as between
Australian - English and
American, such as the classic
“spool of thread” for “reel of
cotton,” there are some which
have to be assimilated for
smoothness of communication.
Feeling thirsty during my first
week here, J asked a dowagerlike
lady for direction to the nearest
hotel. She suggested I try the
West End. I thought a quarter-
hour’s bus-ride a long way to go
for a drink, and said so.
“Oh, a pub! ”, she said. “Why
didn’t you say so? There’s one
just around the corner.”
I hadn’t said “pub” because in
Australia that’s a vulgarism one
doesn’t use to respectable-
looking strangers. The English
usa.ge is better, because it
differentiates between hotels,
providing accommodation and
food (with or without intoxicat-
ing beverages), and public-
houses providing only, or
mainly, drinks.
I wish “cinema” were univers-
ally used in Australia; then we
could reduce those tiresome
circumlocutions like “live
theatre,” “legitimate theatre,”
“stage theatre” to their one
essential word.
“Off-licence” for our “bottle
department” is a quaint and at
first puzzling phrase reflecting
the laws which license premises
for the sale of intoxicating liquor
for consumption “on” or “off”
the premises.
In relation to drinking, “knock
back” is an English colloquialism
meaning the exact opposite to
what it does in Australia —not
refusal, but actual imbibing.
“Sections” are understood by
French but not British bus-
conductors, who deal in “fare
stages.”
I sometimes wonder why Aus-
tralians have almost discarded
“shall” from the future tense,
while not-too-well-educated
English use it even where “will”
is correct. Oddly enough, I think
I’ve been addressed more often
as “mate” in England than in
Australia, and it seems a point
of honor with conductresses and
provincial waitresses to call all
men “ducks,” “dear” o,r “love,”
with a variety of nuance in the
vowel-sound.
But if Australians sometimes
puzzle the English by using their
local patois, I wish Australia
House would provide the major
British journals with a short
glossary dealing with those
aspects of life these journals
know only from American films.
This might save us reading of
Australian outback life in
American western terminology—
“cowboys,” “ranchers” and the
like.
The worst misuse is of “bush-
ranger” (sometimes reduced to
“ranger”), which every English
journalist not inexcusably
takes to mean any person living
in the bush.
The middle-class Englishman’s
misconception that Australians
talk like Cockneys seems on the
way to being replaced by the
idea that we talk like Americans
—for which there may be some
excuse. We certainly strain less
at American colloquialisms. In
a short-story I wrote for a Lon-
don paper, a character’s “I
guess,” which used to be com-
mon among my acquaintances in
Sydney, was carefully sub-edited
into “I suppose.”
When I was doing some
8.8. C. announcing I was startled
to be told my style was reminis-
cent of Stewart MacPherson, a
popular Canadian broadcaster of
the time. As I had thought my
enunciation impeccably English,
this took some working out.
To state a fact, Australian
speech is less rhythmical and less
modulated than any other. We
admit an Irish and a Welsh
“lilt” ; but it is a surprise to
come overseas and hear how
“lilting” all English (and Con-
tinental) speech is compared to
ours.
When I was trying to break
into radio in Australia a con-
stant adjuration to myself and
other hopefuls was to “get the
monotony out of” our voices.
In the absence of any highly-
varied local speech-pattern, the
tendency has been to adopt the
rhythms and melody of either
English or American speech,
mostly the latter, which seems
to come more naturally to us.
That process is largely uncon-
scious, and, doubtless, in turn
has a subtle influence on the
speech of the listeners.
So when I was likened to a
Canadian it was not that I
burred my “r’s” or used short
“a’s” or suchlike which was
referred to, but the whole
speech-pattern ; and on listening
to myself I had to admit it was
markedly unlike that of my
English confreres.
Apart from this, three or four
of the most intensely publicised,
as Australians, of our radio-
stars over here go so whole-
heartedly for the American
manner that English confusion
about Australian speech is
hardly unexpected. But it is fair
to add that American-type voices
are popular with large sections
of the British listening-public.
Talking of radio, the incursion
into British broadcasting by
Australians is astonishing. The
current week’s “Radio Times”
reveals that on no day are there
less than four contributions by
them. A list for the whole week
would take overmuch space: on
Sunday and Monday alone, Aus-
tralians involved in 8.8. C. pro-
grammes (or, rather, those I can
recognise as such) include a disk-
jockey, film-reviewer, art-critic,
serious singer, zoologist, enter-
tainer-at-the-piano, comedian,
two pops - singers, an actor,
actress, and a novelist.
Radio-stars and film-stars, of
course, get the blaze of publicity,
but there must be a fairly con-
siderable contribution to British
life by untrumpeted Australians
more-or-less permanently
resident over here.
We may not yet have sent over
a Lord Beaverbrook, and I don’t
know of any Australian equival-
ent to Ted Leather’s Canadian
accent in the House of Com-
mons, but the Lords has S. M.
Bruce of Melbourne.
Gilbert Murray is probably
our most venerated emigrant
son ;• our medicos have tacked-
up their brass-plates in difficult-
to-get-into Harley-street; an
Australian surgeon conceived
and brought into being a new-
type hospital in Birmingham *,
both 8.8. C. and Independent
Television have Australians at
their top ; and we gave a Lord
Mayor to London a couple of
years ago.
(Continued on page 30)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Director!: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
'Phone: BW 8881.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States,
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Top-class speedsters from most
Australian States and from New
Zealand will provide one of the
most keenly contested Doomben
Ten Thousands in years. Run
over seven furlongs, less 93yds.,
this coming Saturday, it is by
now established as the highlight
•of winter flat-racing in Australia.
Betting this year is wide, but the
winner is expected to come from
the more favored group.
• • • r •
Selections for the Ten
Thousand: Teranyan, 1; Copper
Year, 2; King’s Fair, 3.
Formerly known as the New-
market, the Ten Thousand was
won last year by Apple Bay,
from Plato and 1953-winner True
Leader. Apple Bay has now been
sold to American interests and
is due to leave this week for his
new home. He will be accom-
panied by Prince Cortauld, who
has also found an American
buyer. The pair will travel 15,700
miles by air, going via Singapore
and London, then on to New
York. Prince Cortauld started
in 52 races for 25 wins and 17
minor placings, for a prizemoney
total of £49,801.
Nagpuni, now winning in
America, won the Ten Thousand
two years ago, and some of
Australia’s best-known horses
figure as winners of the rich
Doomben sprint, among them
Murray Stream, Bemborough,
Ungar and Auction. Last-
named was Brisbane’s champion
of the Albion Park sand-track,
and he won the race with 10.12
in 1942, when it was run at the
Park.
A number of candidates for
the Ten Thousand had their final
public outing in the W. J. Healy
Stakes at Eagle Farm on Satur-
day, the event being brilliantly
won by Perth mare Maniana
from a Sydney-trained pair,
Aboukir and Knave. Horses
that ran unplaced would appear
to be no-hopers in the rich
sprint. Maniana scored with
7.12 and goes up 21b. in the
richer race. She was ridden by
N. McGrowdie, who is generally
on the spot in main events, and
who added another to his long
list of Cups when, later in the
day, he piloted Cambridge (from
New Zealand) to success in
Tattersall’s Cup. McGrowdie
will ride Maniana in the Ten
Thousand, but he has contracted
to ride Sydney galloper Fire Dust
in the Doomben Cup. Maniana’s
stable intends to have a shot at
the B.A.T.C. double. The well-
performed Remarc mare has 7.12
in the Doomben Cup. Bern-
borough won both faces in 1946
—the sprint with 10.5, and the
Cup with 10.11 —but, then, he
was Bern boro ugh.
Though Friar’s Choice had
run the best half-mile at Rose-
bery two days before winning
the Bossley Park Novice at
Warwick Farm last Saturday few
wanted to back the colt, because
race-form discounted his pros-
pects. Also, he hadn’t started
for the best part of six months,
was a maiden, and at all prior
outings had finished in the ruck.
He has been lightly raced, and
his veteran trainer, George Carr,
who has lived most of his 70-
odd years at Mascot, held out
little hope of success, despite the
three-year-old’s smart work on
the track. However, Friar’s
Choice duly landed the money,
and he was capably handled by
little-experienced apprentice N.
Andrews, who is attached to
Gordon Brown’s Rosebery
stable. The young rider, a former
“bush” jockey, recently won at
Rosehill on another outsider,
Forest’s Foam, trained by
Brown. Friar’s Choice is by
Friar’s Fancy (imp.) from
Nicaragua by Nizami (imp.).
The successful L. J. O’Sullivan
stable supplied topweights in
both divisions of the Warwick
Farm Welter, but only one
started. Gay Vista carried a
huge weight, 11.1, with distinc-
tion, ably piloted by W. Cook.
Teranyan (10.7) didn’t keep his
engagement in the second
division. For a three-year-old
Teranyan was given plenty, and
it wasn’t surprising that owner
W. Porter reserved the colt for
the Doombe'n Ten Thousand.
He is hopeful of success, and
Teranyan is fit enough if good
enough. Gay Vista’s perform-
ance was his best in a brilliant
sprinting career. His 11.1 was
"These New Zealand horses always come good!”
the biggest weight carried into
first place on a Sydney track for
many years.
Looking over past records, it’s
found that some crack sprinters
of earlier times won with
colossal imposts. In a race at
Perth in December, 1901, a horse
named Australia was successful
with 13.1, the highest weight
ever carried with success on the
flat on a registered track in this
country. Recovery carried 12.7
to success in the Woolowin
Handicap at Brisbane in
November, 1897. Auction
scored with 12.6 at Albion Park
in January, 1943, and also won
with 12.2 at Eagle Farm the same
month. Fujisan, in 1927, with
12.1, and in 1926, with 11.9, won
up the straight-six at Flemington.
New Zealand-bred Night
Guide overcame obstacles to
open his winning account in the
Warwick Farm Prospect Maiden
Mile. There was merit in the
performance, and his Farm
backers will await his next
appearance with a degree of con-
fidence. At the home-turn Night
Guide was ninth and wide out,
but, hard ridden by Mulley, he
got up in time to beat Prince
Genius, with Belle Archer third.
As Night Guide had finished
14th in a field of 16 at his prior
start at Rosehill, his backing
from 10 to 1 to 9-to-4 favoritism
was not a little surprising.
Perilous (imp.), sire of Night
Guide, won races in England up
to 11 furlongs. His best son to
date is Ray Ribbon, winner of
£15,382 in stakes.
Advocate’s owner, Mrs. Denis
Allen, had talked of selling her
six-year-old about three weeks
ago. The handsome galloper
must have resented the idea,
because he came to light with a
runaway win at Warwick Farm
on June 16. Even so, last Friday
Advocate was advertised for sale
at Inglis’s auction on July 20.
He must read the papers, because
he again won at Warwick Farm
—the main distance-event —
easily defeating Lord Cynara,
who had also followed him home
on June 16. Advocate has now
won £21,876.
Hans, winner of the last
Epsom, is to be set for the same
race again. The five-year-old
horse returned to best form in
winning the Warwick Farm
George’s River Handicap, for
which he started favorite, but
he was extended to beat outsider
Queensberry, who should very
soon win.
Eager Lad’s Federal Hurdle at
Moonee Valley On Saturday was
not unimpressive from a
National viewpoint, since he has
only the minimum in the big
hurdle next Saturday and he was
going away at the end, but it
was a weak field behind him,
with the exception of Redfield
and Arabil.
Redfield, having his first start
since he had fallen in a hurdle-
school about a fortnight before,
jumped very carefully and did
not stretch out between the
hurdles; while Arabil, who fell
at Caulfield the week before, and
hadn’t raced over hurdles since
the summer before that run, tired
towards the end. Arabil is an
exceptional two-miles hurdler,
but it is doubtful if he will run
the G.N. three miles with such
a light preparation. Redfield
will, no doubt, go much better
at Flemington than he did on
Saturday, now that his con-
fidence is restored ; but it seems
unreal to look past the favorite,
Kingsmore, who has done every-
thing asked of him in three
hurdle wins this winter, with
about 10 lengths to spare each
time.
Pedro’s Pride found the
Valley steeple-course tricky and
put in a couple of short ones,
but she is a clever jumper and
beat the Valley specialist, Van
Perri, pointlessly; the hunter,
Selsdon, a fair third, is a
National Steeple outsider.
Pedro’s Pride was ridden a vastly
superior race compared with her
handling at Caulfield. It was a
standard field, too. Teedum
fell, and it seems the big mare
will go close next Saturday week
in the G.N. Steeple.
Unpaid, easy winner of the
Moonee Valley Two-year-old
Mile for colts and geldings, is
a son of Debtor (imp.) and Girl
James by John James (imp.)
from Genevra by The Night
Patrol (imp.), and can claim one
distinguished relative, Heroic,
winner of £38,062 in stakes, and
leading Australian sire for seven
seasons. Girl James is a half-
sister to Harella, a good winner
on Melbourne tracks.
+ +
The Australian cricketers, who,
it was said, “couldn’t beat a
county,” defeated England hand-
somely in the second Test at
Lord’s, by 185 runs. Australia,
a bowler short all through,
played perfectly as a team. Still,
some splendid individual efforts
stood out —Miller’s five wickets
in each innings (first time he’s
taken 10 wickets in a Test,
though he’s taken eight and
nine), Benaud’s cool hitting for
97 when runs were necessary,
plus a “miracle” catch and useful
bowling, McDonald and Burke’s
century first-innings stand, basis
of the win, Archer’s spirited
bowling and Langley’s nine dis-
missals in the match, a new
’keeping record for a Test.
England’s men registered
grand individual efforts, too.
May’s two good innings, top-
score each time, fine pace-
bowling by Trueman and Bailey
(and a brilliant catch apiece by
the pair) and, behind the sticks,
Evans, as demonstrative as ever
but still in top form (six catches
and a stumping).
“Mid-on”: Add to those
stonewalling feats in Tests (B.
27/6/’56) Mackay’s 31 in 4hrs.
25min. in Australia’s second
innings at Lord’s, reputedly a
record slow-scoring rate for
Tests. But without his innings
Benaud’s knock may not have
been possible.
“C.A.A.”: Triangular Tests
(with two Australian teams con-
testing) could have been played
in England this year, so numer-
ous and talented are the
cricketers from Australia now
playing league- or county-
cricket. A team picked from the
following, aided by several
seasons’ knowledge of English
pitches, might do well against
Tyson, Trueman and co. —
Pepper, Dooland, Pettiford,
Jackson, Walsh, McCool, Flynn,
Flockton, Fitzmaurice, Noblet,
Manning, Dansie, Grieves,
Fothergill, Tribe, Livingston.
fi * *
A Soccer team to represent
Australia at the Olympic Games
has been selected. Captain is
the veteran but still lively
Corrimal (N.S.W.) skipper Bob
Bignall, and there are two
brothers in the side, the Queens-
land forwards Col and Spencer
Kitching. The team will play
against various State teams, and
other players may be added to
the squad. It is in line with
overseas practice to get the
team together thus early, to
enable the players to achieve
teamwork and combination.
* * ¥
In the V.F.L., Geelong, like
Collingwood the previous round,
had a close call with lowly St.
Kilda, getting there by only five
points (9.8-8.9) —St. Kilda must
soon surely get on to the
winning-list. Melbourne, still 12
match-points in front of Geelong
and Collingwood, had no great
trouble with Hawthorn, 11.14-
5.12; and ’Wood also easily
coped with Essendon, 15.18-7.12.
South surprised by beating Carl-
ton, which thus loses its place in
“the four” on percentages to
Footscray, which just scrambled
home from North, 6.13-5.9. In
the other game, which was hard
and slogging, Richmond out-
stayed Fitzroy, 15.12-12.14.
“Goalsneak”: The two Jack
Clarkes who won an all-Aus-
tralian blazer in 1953 (B.
27/6/’56) were both selected also
in the 1956 all-Australian team.
Apropos, it’s fortunate, perhaps,
that this 1956 Australian team
hasn’t got to play any other
country—it’s not the best
national team that could be
picked, by any means, and it
hasn’t been well received. For
instance, of the five Westralians
selected, Clarke (dropped from
one of the games) and Harper,
the State skipper, both played
very poorly in the final game
against the V.F.L., and 18-year-
old John Gerovich, selected as
Australian full - forward, was
completely outclassed by both
Goldsmith (V.F.L.) and S.A.
goalkeeper Abley. Only eight
of the V.F.L. team were picked
in the 20 named—but if the
strongest possible Test - team
really had to be picked most of
the team would assuredly have
to come from the V.F.L.
“R.A.C.”: After W.A. had
been trounced by the V.F.L. a
wag called out to R. P. Rod-
riguez, president of W.A. Foot-
ball League, “Hey, Pat, when’s
the inquest?” Rodriguez is also
Perth City Coroner.
“De Lisle”: Jack Sheedy, of
East Perth, has appeared in four
post-war carnivals —1947, 1950,
1953 and 1956. The Australian
record for carnival appearances
is held by W. J. (“Nipper”)
Truscott, who appeared in five
and led the W.A. team which
won the championship in 1921.
Two of the outstanding
players at the carnival were Des
Rowe (Richmond) and Peter
Pianto (Geelong). Rowe, dis-
tinguishable by his bald head,
was impassable at centre-half-
back, where he showed remark-
able pace for a 14-stoner, and
often changed defence into
attack with long drop-kicks.
Pianto, distinguishable by
rolled-down socks, was probably
the fastest player at the carnival
The Tassie Medal, for best-and-
fairest at the carnival, was won
by 21-year-old ruckman Graham
Farmer, of East Perth, whom
Richmond has for some time
been dead-keen on getting.
Capable Collingwood wing-
man Jack Hickey, known for
some years now to every Magpie
supporter as “Bones,” has had
a run of bad luck this season.
In the first game, against Haw-
thorn, he broke a bone in his
hand. Missing half -a - dozen
rounds, he played with the
seconds on Queen’s Birthday
weekend, and fractured a bone
in his ankle which may keep him
out for the season. So truly he’s
“Bones”! Hickey is thin and
frail (hence the uncompliment-
ary nickname); but he’s not
short in the way of pluck, and
will mix it with opponents of any
size.
(Continued on next page)


Divorce Notice*
THE SUPREME COURT OF HEW
SOUTH WALES —In DwoßC®*
TO LILIAS FLORENCE WLODARCZKY
(known as LILIAS FLORENCE WARD)
late of No. 2 Birehgrove Avenue Birch-
grove.— TAKE NOTICE that TADEUSZ
WLODARCZKY (known as EDM ARD
TADEUSZ WARD) has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1984 of 1966 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Srd September 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from PIKE & PIKE, Solicitors.
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN LEONARD WHALLEY late of
18a Austral Avenue P en^ursk—T AKE
NOTICE that LILLIAN MAY WHALLEY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1861 of 1956 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce “ Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Srd September 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from PIKE & PIKE, Solicitors,
1,41 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 558 of 1966
BETWEEN NORMA GWEN ROBERTSON
Petitioner AND ARTHUR ALAN ROB-
ERTSON Respondent.
TO ARTHUR ALAN ROBERTSON late of
6 Mandelong Road, Mosman. —TAKE
NOTICE that the said NORMA GWEN
ROBERTSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is apply-
ing for dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion during three years
and upwards and take notice that you
are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-ninth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and
fifty-six and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time, the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding
A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. DATED this Twenty-
fifth day of June, 1956. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. DUNCAN BARRON & CO.,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 81 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
Wonasi laughed good-
naturedly, but he said: “No, hot
that. Anything else that I own
you may have; but that I have
promised in payment for a
thing.”
At this Dai’ali ported. She
spoke to Wonasi coaxingly and
with all a woman’s wiles, but
he remained firm. She became
petulant, but he was not to be
persuaded. Then she spoke
peevishly and crossly and she
wept and beat her hands on the
wall of the house. She said:
Ah!, now she saw how it was,
he was saving the ornament for
some other woman, she should
never have trusted him in the
first place; she would go back
to the house of her parents, and
they would find for her a
husband who would better
appreciate her worth.
With this she took her bilum
net-bag from its peg on the wall
and started to collect her few
belongings where they lay in a
corner, and all the while she
wept unceasingly.
Now Wonasi, for all his
swaggering, was only a young
man and had not been married
before, and consequently was
not well experienced in the ways
of women. Also, Dai’ali had
been in his house little more
than a week, and they had not
yet settled down to the stage
when a husband quells the out-
bursts of a fractious wife with
a sound beating.
He became alarmed, he
thought she really meant to
leave him, so he did a foolish
thing: he gave her the shell.
Now her wild sobbing mod-
erated a little. Wonasi soothed
her; he said, could she not see
that he had only been teasing
her? He had meant to give her
the trinket all along; she had
only to ask and he would give
her whatever she wanted.
That evening, when the sun
had gone down, and they had
eaten and were sitting by the
fire in the porch, there was
again a cough from the shadows
at the side of the house. Again
Wonasi gripped his spear as he
called out:
“Who is there?”
The mountain child, the son
of Kamindimi, came timidly
around the corner. Wonasi put
down his spear, and took from
the folds of his mal a small
package wrapped in leaves and
bound with a kunda-fibre. He
gave it to the boy.
He said: “Your father is
paid.”
And the boy disappeared as
silently as he had come.
THE following night once
more Wonasi and Dai’ali
sat by the smouldering fire in
the light of the nearly full moon.
The air was still, and the night
was quiet save only for the
shrill song of a cicada in the
roof-tree. Suddenly the song
of the cicada stopped, and as it
did so a small package fell
lightly on the sandy floor in
front of Wonasi. He leaped to
his feet, grabbing his spear, and
he held it poised as he ran round
the corner of the porch.
He thought he saw a move-
ment in the shadows: his spear
hurtled through the air and
crashed through the under-
growth at the back of the
house. Then there was silence;
after listening for a while he
went back onto the porch.
Dai’ali cowered in a comer;
the package still lay in the dust.
Wonasi stooped and picked up
the package and opened it. He
looked at the necklet of dogs’-
teeth which it contained, and
he looked at the knotted leaf
of green and purple which was
tied to the necklet. Then, in
anger, he flung it from him;
but in his belly was the coldness
of fear.
He spat out a few vicious
words at Dai’ali, and waved her
into the hut; she crept through
the door, whimpering. That
night he did not sleep: he sat
well-back in the shadow of the
porch, one great limb on-spear
gripped in his hand and three
others leaning against the wall
beside him.
WITH the first light of the
approaching day, Wonasi
went inside and woke Dai’ali
and gave her short and urgent
instructions. Quickly she
gathered up a few necessities:
a cooking-pot, a sleeping-mat,
knives of chipped stone, fish-
lines of twisted fibre, some
uncooked taro and yam, a roll
of leaf-tobacco, betel-nut, lime.
When she had stowed them all
in her bilum she came out of
the house and Wonasi care-
fully fastened the door, securing
it with bamboos and thongs of
split kunda-cane. Then he
slung across his back his round
wooden shield, took in his hands
his bow, arrows, and spears;
and, with a word of caution to
Dai’ali, strode off down the
path that led to the river.
Dai’ali hoisted the loop of her
bilum on her forehead, picked
up a glowing firestick from the
hearth, and followed him. The
village was still silent as they
left it behind them in the half-
light.
When they reached the river,
Wonasi launched his canoe from
the sand-spit where it lay, and
brought out the paddles from
their hiding-place in the pit-pit
cane which lined the bank.
Dai’ali lowered her bilum into
the craft and laid her firestick,
with a few pieces of driftwood,
on the little dried-mud bed in
the prow.
They paddled up the river
until the sun was high in the
midday sky; then they turned
into a side-stream where the
water was black and sluggish
and where the forest trees
stretched out from each side,
forming a canopy over their
heads. They followed this
stream for a while until,
suddenly, it opened out into a
semicircular roundwater, or
lagoon; actually an old,
abandoned channel of the river.
After the monotony of the
muddy river with its unchang-
ing low flat banks, and the
gloom of the dark stream from
which they had just emerged,
the brilliance of the sunlight
and the color and variety of the
new scene were startling. On
the outer edge of the curved
lagoon the ground rose easily
from water-level to a low hill.
The tiers of forest trees which
lined it presented an infinite
variation of light and dark
greens, broken here and there
by vivid splashes of scarlet,
yellow, and white blossom.
From the top of the ridge a
mob of white cockatoos rose
screaming into the air; gaudy-
colored parrots darted from tree
to tree. The smaller birds
chirped and whistled and chat-
tered ; from further back came
the “coo, coo” of pigeons. Near
the water’s edge an old sow,
disturbed from her midday
siesta, hustled her brood with
many grunts and squeaks into
the safety of the bush.
Wonasi and Dai’ali paddled a
little way along the lagoon, then
they pulled in to the low bank
and went ashore. A few paces
back from the water was a
rough shelter of saplings and
palm-leaf roof: this was one
of Wonasi’s hunting - lodges,
used when he had travelled too
far from home to return the
same day. It lay beyond the
boundaries of the Aiome tribal
lands, in the uninhabited
country which stretched far on
up the river.
They took their goods from
the canoe and placed them in
the shelter of the hut. Dai’ali
gathered firewood of the fallen
branches which lay all round,
and then she kindled a fire and
cooked a meal of taro. Later
in the afternoon Wonasi
repaired and strengthened their
rough dwelling. The fear in
his belly was now stilled, and
that night they slept in pea Ge.
They settled down to a pleas-
ant and easy life in their hiding-
place. In the daytime Wonasi
stalked the game which
abounded in the surrounding
forest, and brought home pigeon
and kokomor and parrot and
sometimes a mumut rat or a
little sucking-pig. Dai’ali fished
from the bank of the lagoon
with her fibre line and bone
hook and bait dug from under
the roots of the trees.
Sometimes they went out to-
gether and gathered fruits and
berries and the succulent stalks
of the waterlily and the tender
shoots of bamboo and cane.
Sometimes they wasted a day
just lounging and sleeping in
the leafy shade which lined the
water’s edge. They saw no
other human being. At night
the deep stillness of the forest
enveloped them broken but
rarely by the fall of frond or
twig, the murmur of a night
insect, or the more startling
call of the mopoke.
Thus for a while they lived
in peace and content; but it
is not man’s nature to find com-
plete happiness away from the
company of his kind.
TWO moons had died, and a
new one was well up in
the sky, when Wonasi judged
that it would be safe to return
home.
Dai’ali again packed their few
goods into her bilum and they
launched the canoe for the
return journey. They reached
the landing near midday, and
walked up to the village. The
house was as they had left it,
the fastenings on the door were
intact, nothing had been dis-
turbed. Tired after the heat
and exertion of the journey
they rested until the sun was
low and the cool breath of the
evening came across the plain.
Then Dai’ali got up and
busied herself with her cooking'-
pots, and Wonasi strolled across
the village-square and joined
the other men where they sat
and talked under the great fig-
tree. He accepted the polite
offer of betel and lime, and
listened to their talk of the
trivial events which had taken
place during his absence.
He was vigilant for any sug-
gestion of unusual occurrences,
but apparently there had been
none, for they talked only of
small things; the launching of
Marisa’s new canoe; the wild-
boar which Samban had
wounded, and which had then
turned the tables on his
aggressor by putting him up a
tree and keeping him there over-
night ; the wickedness of the
boy Argwi, the son of Taios,
who had spoken rudely to one of
the older men. Wonasi felt a
pleasant sensation of relief.
Presently, as the sun touched
the peaks of the range, he got
up and went back to his hut.
Dai’ali gave him a meal of
yam and some smoked fish
brought back from the lagoon.
When they had eaten he told
Dai’ali to go into the hut and
sleep. For himself he continued
sitting by the fire, his spears
within easy reach. His belly
was now at ease —the Little Men
had short memories —but he
prudently decided that for the
first night at home, at least, he
would remain on guard. So he
sat until the moon, in its down-
ward journey, shone clear and
bright under the roof of the
porch.
The day had been long, and
Wonasi was tired. He closed
his eyes to avoid the direct rays
of the moon ; presently his head
fell forward and he slept.
RAMINDIMI came silently
round the corner of the
porch and into the shadow of
the wall. He waited a little
while to assure himself that his
victim slept soundly, then he
moved silently up behind him
... At this moment there was
a sound of movement inside
the hut, and he sank back into
the shadows.
Dai’ali climbed out through
the hatchlike doorway. She
hesitated while her eyes adjusted
themselves to the bright light,
then she walked towards the fire
—and the beams of the moon
touched with shining color the
ornament which hung from her
neck.
Seeing that Wonasi slept, she
too sat down and leaned for-
ward to push together the sticks
of the dying fire.
With the delicate soundless
step of a dancer Kamindimi
moved out from the shadows
behind her; he lifted his
blade.
Dai’ali’s dying grunt as she
fell over on her side was scarcely
more than a whisper. She
sprawled awkwardly on the
floor, one dead hand stretched
towards her sleeping lover.
On a path in the forest
Kamindimi the Killer moved
swiftly towards the hills. As he
passed through the lattice of
light and shade the jewel which
he carried in his hand flashed
and sparkled in ever-changing
color.
In the porch of his house
Wonasi the Hunter slept peace-
fully, and in the roof-tree the
cicada resumed his interrupted
song.
Moorabbin, in the V.F.A., had
the score 10.10 kicked against
it five times in the first 10 games
this season. Northcote did it in
the second round, then, begin-
ning in the seventh, Preston,
Brighton, Coburg and Box Hill
in succession—four straight! It
wouldn’t happen again in a
thousand years!
\* * *
At North Sydney Oval N.S.W.
took on Queensland at Rugby
Union, N.S.W. winning 32-9.
The game was treated as an
experiment by both sides ; the
home team introduced, not
before time this season, some
country players to State football,
and Queensland, looking to the
future, fielded one of the
youngest teams to represent a
State. N.S.W. scored seven tries
to one, a true reflection, of the
game. Stanbrook and Bailey,
two promising backs from the
country, each crossed twice, as
did Randwick and Test break-
away Keith Cross, one of the
best opportunists in the game,
who got a couple of “snap” tries
within minutes of each other.
• • • •
“Cunedda”: There’s been a
bit of a squabble in Sydney’s
Rugby Union over the residen-
tial qualifications of a couple of
top players. Actually residential
qualifications in Union have
never been rigorously enforced,
and shouldn’t be. The district-
system should be scrapped —it’s
too artificial. Districts are too
large, and some grounds so
situated that many people in a
club’s area are too far away to
provide patronage. A non-
residential area would enable
suburbs, or municipalities, to
enter clubs, strengthened by out-
siders. They would have far
greater drawing-power than the
unwieldy district clubs. Also,
playing strength should be
more uniform. At present some
clubs have too many players of
first-grade calibre for certain
positions. Under a non-district
system some of these could
transfer to weaker clubs.
* * *
Australia won the third Rugby
League Test at Sydney Cricket
Ground, beating N.Z. 31-14,
running away with the game in
the second half after N.Z. had
led 9-8 at half-tiine. It was the
first time in Australia that the
home team had won a Test-
series 3-0. Winger Don Adams,
who got three tries, and half
Keith Holman, standing out in
attack and defence, were the two
Australian stars. The Kiwis
were a really good team, make
no ’mistake, with some brilliant
individual performers; but in
the series they met a better team.
“Selja”: It’s always puzzled
me why Rugby hookers (of both
codes) get the credit for winning
each and every scrum. Actually
the two “props” often strike for
and win, or lose, the ball, and
sometimes, when the half can get
away with it, the ball is thrown
into the second-row and heeled
back from there. Yet the fiction
is maintained that the hooker
rakes the ball every time —“Ken
Hooker won the set scrums,
17-16.”
“Dentonio”: Can any other
Rugby club, Union or League,
match this record of the Inverell
Rugby League Club? InverelFs
first and reserve sides are both
led by New Australians, the firsts
by a Frenchman, Fred Graber,
the reserves by a Dutchman,
Gerry De Vries.
* * *
There were a few upsets in
the early rounds of the singles
at Wimbledon. By the end of
the third round four of the eight
seeded players, Drobny, Nielsen,
Patty and Davidsson, had been
eliminated. Another surprise
was the fourth-round outing of
young Ashley Cooper, “giant-
killer” of Davidsson, by an
unknown American, Allen
Morris. At time of writing
Rosewall and Hoad were both
still well in it.
* * *
Leading the field after the first
round in the Canada Cup at
Wentworth (Eng.), Australians
Peter Thomson and Norman
von Nida crashed badly to finish
in 11th place. The Americans
Ben Hogan and Sammy Snead
won the event after trailing the
Canadian pair, Leonard and
Balding, prior to the final round.
America’s aggregate was 567
(Hogan 277, Snead 290).
* * *
„ Jock „ : The N.S.W. Women’s
Amateur Athletic Association
d n>t G f ten change its office-
beafers Its secretary, Mrs.
Dor j s Magee, has just been
elected for tbe 2 4th year in suc-
s-on p or tbe 22nd successive
f M ' rs M chambers has gone
* »s Magee^who
tes a, the Helsinki Olympics
recently,


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
n
Established 18UH m Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
t Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. AND SOVIET AIR-POWER
A MERICAN air - supremacy
received something of a jolt
when the head of the U.S.
Strategic Air Command, General
Curtis LeMay, was asked by the
U.S. Armed Services sub-
committee investigating air-
power, “In what year, at what
time, if the present programmes
go along, do you think they
[Russia] will be in a position,
if they hit us [America], to
destroy us? We will accept it
as a guess from the man who
has the most right to guess.”
The General replied: “I don’t
like to guess on those things, but
if you insist I will come up with
a guess—l96o. They can do it
with a complete surprise attack.”
Following-up this lead, “U.S.
News and World Report” com-
ments that “Soviet jet-engines
today surpass U.S. engines in
power ; Russia’s jet-bombers are
more than a match for this
country’s jet-fighters; and the
Soviet Union actually is out-
producing the U.S. in strategic
bombers.”
Looking for reasons, the same
paper posed various questions
and found the answers to them
in statements by “key officials in
the U.S. Government and in the
aircraft-industry.” It reported:
“The revealing questions and
answers brought to light
include:
“Is it true that Soviet Russia
is ahead of the U.S. in develop-
ment of modern planes and
engines ?
“General Earle E. Partridge,
head of the U.S. Continental Air
Defence Command, testified that
U.S. jet-interceptors have ‘inade-
quate altitude performance to
cope with the Bison,’ a long-
range Soviet jet-bomber, ‘pro-
vided the Soviets should decide
to sacrifice their aircraft by
employing one-way tactics,
“ ‘At the present time,’ General
Partridge added, ‘it is believed
the Russians have in operational
units jet-engines of greater
thrust than we [the U.S.] have.
I would say that at the moment
the Russian air-defence fighters
are slightly superior to ours.’
“General Curtis LeMay
believes Russia is overtaking the
United States in bombers, too.
‘By 1958,’ he said, the Russians
will be stronger than U.S. plans
to be in long-range bombers,
‘and the deterrent force will then
transfer to Russia from the
United States.’
“‘I think the situation is
deteriorating,’ General LeMay
stated.
“Why has the U.S. Air Force
failed to keep up with Russia in
plane- and engine-development ?
“A high-ranking officer gives
this explanation:
“ ‘Economy is the big reason.
In the period after World War 11,
we cut down on all forms of
armament, including, unfortun-
ately, our research and develop-
ment.
“ ‘Faulty intelligence went
along with it. We just didn’t
realise how much effort the
Russians were putting into air-
craft development, and how
successful they were.
“ ‘German scientists, captured
by the Russians, contributed to
the fast start made by the Soviets.
Today, the Russians are not so
dependent on them.
“ ‘Theft is a big reason, too.
The Russians stole many U.S.
developments by use of
espionage, saved months or years
of research and design in some
fields as a result.
“ ‘Soviet concentration on
training engineers and scientists
has paid-off, as well. They are
getting a lot more new talent
than we are to develop new
planes.
“ ‘Degree of effort on the
Russians’ part, though, is the
biggest reason. The Soviets can
put as much effort into anything
as their leaders deem necessary,
and they have concentrated a far
greater proportion of their skills
and effort into developing jet
air-power than we have since
1946.’
“Was there a breakdown in air-
power research by U.S. ?
“An aircraft-company execu-
tive states that an impounding of
defence-funds in the late 1940’s
delayed progress in both the
B-47 medium jet-bomber and the
B-52 long-range jet-bomber, in
that it slowed development of the
jet-engines that are used in those
planes.
“General Partridge, in his
testimony before Congress, put
it this way: ‘Prior to 1950, the
budgets on which the Army Air
Forces and the Air Force were
required to operate were quite
small, and during that period it
was not possible to support the
engine-development programme
by exploring all the means by
which better engines could be
secured.
“ ‘ln retrospect, it now appears
that it would have been desirable
to have concentrated more effort
toward the development of high-
thrust engines which would give
us a greater altitude capability
today.’
“An industry spokesman
reports: ‘ln the U.S., research
and development was the first
thing to be cut when our post-
war defence-spending began to
bind a little.’
“But how could a relatively
backward nation, in only 10
years, catch up to the greatest
industrial Power on earth in a
complicated field like aircraft?
“An aircraft-company official
points out that the Russians got
two big breaks. His explana-
tion: ‘The jet-engine was the
great leveller in the aviation
field after World War 11. All
the equipment and experience
that the U.S. had, all its leader-
ship in piston-engines, was wiped
out insofar as military airplanes
were concerned. Everybody
started out even again.
“ ‘The second break was that
the jet-engine—and the whole
field of gas-turbine engines—is
particularly suited to the Russian
abilities, because they excel in
theoretical analyses in the same
way that we excel in mechanical
or applied analyses. The piston-
engine was brought to its zenith
in this country and nowhere else.
The Russians did little with it.
But, with the gas-turbine engine,
all our edge in piston-engines was
lost.’
“Just how are Russian jet-
engines better than U.S. engines ?
“An industry expert explains
it in these words: ‘The Russians
have four engines on their Bison
[comparable to the U.S. B-52]
that develop from 14,0001 b. to
20,0001 b. of thrust. The biggest
engine we have is a J-75, which
will develop 15,0001 b. to
16,0001 b. of thrust. And this
engine is not quite in produc-
tion. A plant is tooling for it.
“ ‘We believe that this
country’s J-57 jet-engine is the
most efficient model now in pro-
St. Louis ( U.S.A .) “Globe-Democrat”
NEW PRESCRIPTION
duction anywhere in the world.
It develops only 10,0001 b. to
12,0001 b. of thrust. But we put
eight of these J-57’s into each
B-52 as compared with four
engines that the Russians put into
their Bisons.’
“Why hasn't the U.S. de-
veloped a more powerful jet-
engine ?
“The same expert says this:
‘We tried to apply to jet-engines
the same philosophy of develop-
ment that applied to the piston-
engine field. I have heard top
engineers in this country say that
the U.S. could have gone out for
engines with, say, 30,0001 b. of
thrust in the late 1940’s ; and we
would have such an engine
today. But it probably would not
have been efficient.
“ ‘lnstead of trying leap-frog
tactics, we have followed a
careful, step-by-step development
of these engines.’
“How did the Russians get
engineers and scientists capable of
doing all of these things in the
aircraft field ?
“General Thomas D. White,
Air Force Vice-Chief of Staff,
gives this answer: ‘The Com-
munists have realised that the key
to success in this field lies in the
hands of engineers and scientists.
They are now outproducing us
almost three-to-one in graduates
from science and engineering
schools.
“‘And the Soviet schools are
good schools. Today there are
175 institutions in the Soviet
Union which teach engineering
exclusively. In contrast, most
of our colleges and universities
teach engineering merely as part
of the overall curriculum.
“ ‘While the number of
technically educated college-
graduates in Russia continues to
climb, ours declines.
“ ‘To me, this trend is almost
as ominous as the Soviet produc-
tion of bombers. Indeed, the
two are closely related.’
“An experienced official in the
U.S. aircraft-industry attributes
much of the answer to charac-
teristics of the Russian people.
Interviewed, he said: ‘The plain
truth is that we are in a
tremendous technical race with a
country more like us than any
country we have ever been up
against before. If they choose,
they can be truly tough com-
petitors. They’re a hungry
people. They’re resilient and
determined. Like Americans,
they like to get things done. And
they have a big backlog of
natural resources. They are not
like the French, or the Italians,
or even the British. 1 The British
are good at hand-making things,
but they can’t produce. The
Russians can produce in
quantity, if they put their minds
to it.’ ”
Trinidad Oil
The sale of the British-owned
Trinidad Oil Company to the
American Texas Company for
£63 million (approximately £4
for a ss. share) produced some
sharp exchanges in the British
press, with London “Daily
Express” as possibly the most
vociferous opponent of the deal.
To support its argument the
“Daily Express” quoted U.S.
legal restrictions on the foreign
control of water-power and
mineral resources in Govern-
ment-owned land, and Britain’s
Exchange Control Act, under
which no capital asset can be
transferred to a foreign country
without Treasury permission.
It then went on to comment
that the British Chancellor, Mr.
Macmillan, “may be tempted by
the chance of a quick profit in
dollars —the deal would bring in
180 million of them, enough to
take the sting out of the balance-
of-payments problem”:
“But how can such an
improvident project be even con-
templated? It would be worse
than bartering the Briti§h-built
Argentine railways in exchange
for a year’s meat-ration, as the
Socialists did.
“British shares in American
Viscose were sold during the war
for £13,600,000. They are now
valued at £lOO million. Is
Trinidad oil to be sacrificed in
the same way just to tide Britain
over a bad trade patch?
“And not only the oil would be
sacrificed. Along with the oil
would go the colony. Trinidad
would become an economic
dependency of the United States.
“A slice of the Empire would
change hands in truth, if not in
title. Nothing that can be said
can alter that.”
Most of the British press,
however, approved of the sale,
London “Financial Times” sug-
gesting that Government pro-
hibition of the deal would “act
as an encouragement to economic
nationalism”:
“In the years after the war the
British Government’s acts of
nationalisation were a precedent
for other nationalisation
measures, including Mr. Mous-
sadek’s seizure of Persian oil. If
now we prohibit this sale we can
only encourage other countries
to treat us in the same way.
“That may be most important
for British companies producing
raw materials overseas. There is
also, however, the American
position to be considered. If we
refuse to allow this deal it may
well prejudice the position in the
United States of British interests
such as Shell—also an oil
company—Borax, Bowater or
Unilever.
“That is a serious considera-
tion. So is the general policy of
encouraging American invest-
ment in Britain and the Com-
monwealth. Until now it has
been British policy to welcome
this investment. The export of
British-made cars by Ford or
Vauxhall, or the Fawley oil-
refinery are examples of the
benefits of such investment to the
United Kingdom. Yet it is
certain that one cannot
encourage investment on the one
hand while refusing it on the
other.
“The effect of a decision to
prohibit this sale would both be
to lose what would certainly be
an expanding individual invest-
ment, and to discourage further
American investment from all
sources. This refusal could
damage American investment in
Britain and British investment in
the United States.
“The third consideration is
that this deal undoubtedly offers
economic advantages. The
Trinidad Oil Company is one of
the small units in the oil-world.
It has nothing like the resources
of the Texas Company and
would be hard put to it to remain
in effective competition with the
giant international companies.
While one needs the assurances
that have been given on the
Texas Company’s policy in
Trinidad, its superior economic
strength would enable it to take
full advantage of the oppor-
tunities for expansion. That
should benefit both Trinidad and
the Trinidad Oil Company’s
interests in Canada and the
United Kingdom.”
Turning to the other side of
the argument, the “Financial
Times” contended that the major
considerations are that the sale
“would lose the sterling-area one
of its few. oil-reserves inside the
Commonwealth, and that it
would tend to loosen ties between
London and Trinidad”:
“The first argument is serious,
but not overwhelming. In fact,
the Texas Company is probably
more interested in the marketing
and refining side of the company
than in its crude-oil production.
Indeed, the Trinidad Oil Com-
pany’s production is very small:
it is only one of a number of
Trinidad companies, and
Trinidad itself produces less than
half of one per cent, of the
world’s oil. It is quite wrong to
suppose that Trinidad would be
able to make any substantial
difference if for some reason
supplies from the Middle East
were to be cut off. The reserves
position is even less favorable.
“The political argument is
stronger, but it may be mis-
conceived. British policy towards
Trinidad depends on the creation
of the Caribbean Federation.
Nothing could do more harm
than to appear now to be taking
a dog-in-the-manger attitude
toward Trinidad’s oil interests.”
“Manchester Guardian,” also
noting the smallness of the
Trinidad Oil Company’s produc-
tion, commented that the crux
of the deal was obviously the
Regent Oil Company in Britain,


How blood
pressure tells
your story
A blood-pressure ' test gives a
revealing check on the condi-
tion of your circulatory system.
It can spot kidney disease,
other troubles and can even
safeguard women during preg-
nancy by warning of toxemias.
July Eeader’s Digest brings
you facts on one of medicine’s
most important tests, and on
how research is teaching us to
eombat high blood pressure.
Then there’s "Life and death
of a twisted genius” —the fan-
tastic career of multimillionaire
swindler Serge Bubinstein;
"God’s angry man”; "Are the
Eussians ahead in nuclear
science?”: a wealth of stimulat-
ing articles in July Eeader’s
Digest, only two shillings.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to —
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2/13/0 Foreign £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
part-owned by the Trinidad
company.
“An organised network of
retail outlets for petrol in this
rapidly expanding market is
worth a great deal of money
far more than a small oilfield and
the medium-sized refinery in
Trinidad. The Texas Oil Com-
pany, which has offered £63
million for all the assets of the
Trinidad group, already has a
footing in the Regent organisa-
tion through its holding in the
California - Texas Company,
which in turn owns half of
Regent’s capital.*’
Agreeing with that assessment,
London “Daily Telegraph” added
that the Texas Company “would
not have offered such a price
unless it saw great opportunities
for development”:
“But to suggest that the sale
ought to be stopped for this
reason is ridiculously short-
sighted. Would these critics
approve if, for the same reason,
the Canadian Government
stopped British Petroleum invest-
ing in the Canadian oil-industry?
Or if the American Government
stopped Bowaters investing in the
American paper-industry? Or
if the Australian Government
stopped the British Motor Cor-
poration investing in motor-
manufacture in Australia? It is
only necessary to mention a few
such instances to show what a
disastrous policy it is that the
critics are advocating.
“The disquiet which should be
felt comes from a different
source. The whole reason for
the sale is that the American
company has the resources to
finance the development that is
possible, while the British com-
pany has not. This is a symptom
of the underlying weakness of
this country [Britain] which is
generally concealed.
“The price which the Ameri-
can company is willing to pay
is an unmistakable revelation of
the incipient capital-starvation
which is attacking the roots of
our prosperity. If the critics
would turn their attention to the
real cause of the sale, and shout
as loudly for the changes in
domestic policy which are neces-
sary before adequate capital can
be made available to British
companies, then the noise they
are making might be to some
purpose.”
In a similar diagnosis of
Britain’s difficulties, London
“Time and Tide” commented
that “open antagonism to Ameri-
can enterprise and investment is
not in Britain’s interest”:
“It has become an economic
platitude that the United States
must invest its trading surplus
abroad and take over the major
role that Britain played so
handsomely in the past. We have
no right to dictate in what form
and in what directions that
investment shall take place. With
our own record of intrusion, for
which we need never apologise,
we are ill-advised to express any
resentment at American mani-
festations of the same technique
of overseas investment.
“On the contrary, we should
ask ourselves why at the
moment we are incapable of
playing a proper part in world-
investment. Last year we had a
deficit in our international
account, which means that in
effect we made no net contribu-
tion to overseas investment. The
Socialist party is eloquent about
our duty to aid the colonies and
other underdeveloped areas, but
it actively encourages policies
and demands at home which
frustrate and nullify any such
schemes. The Conservative Gov-
ernment has done little so far to
revive the saving which is the
necessary chunter part to healthy
investment at home and abroad.
“In these circumstances the
protests from the Right and Left
against American take-overs
sound hollow, and a display of
futile arrogance in these matters
is calculated to make us ridicu-
lous in the eyes of the world,
which well knows that a supple-
ment of $lBO million to our
precious exchange - reserves
would be a godsend at this
juncture.
“Of more practical concern is
whether this supplement would
not be dissipated by con-
tinued domestic extravagance. It
is our own responsibility if we
sell our heritages for a mess of
pottage. The Socialists who sold
the Argentine railways for a
meat-ration are disqualified from
pronouncing upon a much-less-
dubious transaction.”
Suez
Three farewells to Suez on the
occasion of the last British troops
leaving the Canal Zone :
London “Daily Telegraph" :
“Useless though it may be to
cry over spilt milk, we feel bound
to put on record the feebleness
of the reasons for, and the
frightfulness of the consequences
of, spilling any milk at all in this
region.
“The evacuation of Suez was
prompted by the practical argu-
ment that the base was useless
in war, and by the political argu-
ment that Egypt must be kept
friendly. In a major war, the
base was no more useless than
any other which might be sub-
jected to nuclear attack, and
certainly not more useless in that
event than Cyprus. And there
was one kind of store in it,
already a bit cracked by Abadan
and now further seriously
damaged, in the shape of British
prestige in the Middle East.
“As for Egypt’s friendliness, it
is enough to observe Colonel
Nasser’s celebration of the
evacuation by a display of the
arms which he has obtained
from Communist sources.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman ” ; “The
defence of the Canal, one of the
world’s major and most vulner-
able arteries, is now left to
Egypt; but within the zone there
remain some six major British
installations, all that has been
retained of the huge military base
there which formerly held a
peace-time establishment of
around 70,000 servicemen.
“These installations, to
complete the fantastic picture, are
being operated and maintained
for the War Office by British
civilian companies. These
civilians, cut off within their
perimeter fences, are responsible
for their internal security and
administration, but are subject
to Egyptian law and inspection—
and to Egyptian protection. They
are intended to be available as
the basis for an immediate
British return in full military
strength to the Canal in the
event of war.
“Meantime, because she dare
not give up her footing in the
Eastern Mediterranean and
expose the flank of Nato, Britain
is forced to endure the shameful
ordeal of coercing Cyprus while
she constructs another military
base there.”
* * *
London “Economist” (com-
menting on a statement that the
Egyptian Government will take
over full management of the
enterprise when the Canal com-
pany’s concession ends in 1968):
“Although no one can predict
what political considerations will
by then be weighing Egypt’s
actions, there are, on the prac-
tical side, several contingencies
that can be foreseen”:
“One safe forecast is that
Egyptians will be determined to
run the Canal well, not only for
prestige reasons, but because
Canal-dues are a prime source of
the foreign exchange which they
must earn if they are to service
the huge loans which they plan
to contract for internal
‘development.’
“Another guess is that 12 years
is too short a time to inculcate
a taste for the steady slog at
routine administrative work on
which the French company’s
superb local efficiency has hung.
So far, no competent Egyptians
have held, or even wanted, senior
administrative jobs tucked away
on the Canal-bank. Nor has
the Egyptian civil service, so far,
provided the right kind of
training-ground for the work;
in Egypt, aptitude for routine
work is rarely evident except in
the armed forces —so little so
that Army officers are now being
pushed into Ministries to implant
it.
“Once in nationalist hands,
Canal traffic-management is
likely to work less smoothly, and
certain to work less silently, than
it does now. Already this year,
pressure has been exercised on
the company to employ more
Egyptians as pilots, and because
too few Egyptians have the
necessary seagoing qualifications,
the standard has been lowered to
let more in. Such reduction of
standards, if extended to other
realms of management, will not
cause traffic to collapse, but it
must impair the chances of quick
handling.
“Unfortunately, there is no
room for sagging efficiency.
Already the traffic is approach-
ing bursting-point. It more than
doubled between 1948 and 1955,
largely, but by no means wholly,
because of the increase in oil-
traffic. To judge by the O.E.E.C.
report on Europe’s future energy
demands, the volume of oil
carried will go on rising for the
foreseeable future.
“Who is to organise the
changes needed to meet such
pressure, including the capital
works entailed? The outgoing
concessionaire? The incoming
manager? Or the users? One
point of which users already
seem aware is that representation
of their interests to an Egyptian
management, if composed of
supercharged nationalists, will be
more effective if conducted by
some international shipping-
body than by Governments to
whom political motives can be
ascribed.”
Radiation Hazards
la March last year, following
a Commons debate on radiation
and genetics, the British Medical
Council set up a committee to
investigate the effects of radia-
tion on human-beings. Its just-
published findings, “The
Hazards to Man of Nuclear and
Allied Radiations,” have pro-
voked a good deal of press-
comment along the following
lines:
London “Economist”: “Eight
miles above the earth, a cloud
made up of little pieces of coral-
rock from the Pacific atolls and
fused silica from* the Soviet
hinterland floats on the surface
of the dense atmosphere, hurled
up there by the force of H-bomb
tests and too small and light to
come immediately down again.
Each year, however, some of
these particles float to earth, like
leaves sinking in water, and they
carry down the radioactive
debris left over from the bomb
itself.
“As the cloud circles the earth,
a fine layer of strontium is
deposited across the globe ; the
concentration has increased six-
fold since the first H-test two
years ago. The-present level in
man seems to be about a
thousandth of the maximum
dose the safety regulations allow
for workers near radiation.
“The danger-level for the
population would, the committee
suggested, be the much lower
figure of 10 times today’s con-
centration. At the present rate
of tests, that level might not be
reached within a century; some
scientists doubt whether there
would be any further significant
increase at all. But it is a hair’s-
breadth balance that could easily
be disturbed by irresponsible
action by any one country.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Particularly significant is the
conclusion that the radiation
risks run while one is being
X-rayed, or working with radio-
active materials, or wearing a
luminous watch, may be greater
than those we now incur from
the fall-out from nuclear-weapon
tests.
“But there is one important —
perhaps vital —point on which
less certainty is expressed. The
committee is worried less about
external radiation due to fall-
out from weapon-tests than
about internal radiation from
strontium which could be
absorbed and retained in the
body.
“About this risk knowledge is
far from adequate, and the
report gets as close as it dare to
giving a warning against too
many tests with too many
weapons. On the effects of using
large numbers of nuclear
weapons in war the report adds
little to the gruesome and
frightening facts already
known.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” : “In
a nutshell, the Medical Research
Council has decided that the
amounts of radioactivity which
have already been absorbed in
human bones are not in them-
selves harmful, but that if this
level showed signs of increasing
10 times, ‘immediate considera-
tion’ would be necessary.
“The report does not say what
would have to be considered
‘immediately,’ but clearly there
would at that stage be little that
could be done to remove Stron-
tium 90 —the radioactive fall-out
poison that matters from
people’s bones. It would be
necessary to stop the tests in
order to prevent things getting
worse. It follows that the crucial
question becomes: how likely is
it that the amounts of radio-
active strontium in human bones
will accumulate to this extent?”
* * *
London “New Statesman”:
“Blind persistence will bring us
to the point -of- no - return,
because this radio-strontium dust
persists as a biological hazard
for at least 2700 days after an
explosion. From an H-bomb
exploded at height it would dis-
perse over the whole world, and
eventually poison our water and
food. It could then find its way
into our bones, where a large
enough concentration will set up
cancers. In the Welsh moun-
tains, scientists have found sheep
whose bones contain measurable
quantities of radio-strontium
from the Pacific. It may be com-
forting to tell the British people
that the radiation from this
source is not more than that
from the X-ray machines in
shoe-shops, but this may not be
true for the peasant peoples of
Asia, who live in the open
directly off growing plants. They
are as vulnerable as the Welsh
sheep.”
* * *
London “Spectator” : “Action
should surely be taken now to
deal with this threat, and the
only sensible action would be an
international agreement to end
the explosion of nuclear
weapons. It is to be hoped that
the Government may be stirred
by this report into taking an
initiative which must, surely, be
welcomed by any sane statesman.
As usual there will be objections
from all the general staffs, but
this is a matter which, to echo
Clemenceau, is much too serious
to leave to soldiers.”
Various Voices
President Eisenhower: “If you
are waging peace you can’t be
too particular sometimes about
the special attitudes that differ-
ent countries take. We were a
young country once, and for the
first hundred years or more—
one-hundred-and-fifty—we were
neutral. Now, today there are
certain nations that say they are
neutral. This doesn’t neces-
sarily mean what it is so often
interpreted to mean —neutral as
between right and wrong or
decency and indecency. They
are using the term ‘neutral’ with
respect to attachment to military
alliances.”
Arthur F. Burns (chairman of
the CJ.S. Council of Economic
Advisers): “Inflation is not an
act of God. A mature people
should be able to conduct their
private and public affairs so as
to avoid both deflation and
inflation.”
British Conservative M.P., Ted
Leather: “The great danger
about having a glorious past is
the overpowering tendency to
live in it. Living in the past is
about the best way I know of
guaranteeing that you don’t live
in the future.”
Britain's Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Harold Macmillan:
“Full employment —strange as it
would have seemed to us 30 years
ago—has its own problems and
its own anxieties. It is like peace
—not a passive state, to be
enjoyed. It is something to be
won and preserved by hard
thinking and hard work. It isn’t
easy for most of us to realise
how great the risks are. Unless,
as a nation, we act —all of us,
Government, employers and
employed —with restraint and
moderation, we may easily throw
away what we have gained.”


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HAROLD THACKRAY late
of Moree in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARY AGNES
THACKRAY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4483 of 1955 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three (3) years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 3rd
day of September 1956 and obtain a copy
of Hie Petition without charge from
MESSRS. K. BRUDENELL-WOODS ft
CO., Solicitors, of 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO THOMAS FURNESS late of River
Street Murwillumbah in the State of New;
South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that
VIOLET MAY FURNESS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 906 of 1956 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three (3) years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 3rd day of September 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. K. BRUDENELL-WDODS
& CO., Solicitors, of 90 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Also, one of the greater Lon-
don dailies has an Australian to
review films ; quite a lot of best-
selling authors have settled here
since the war ; and in universities
British youth is guided by Aus-
tralian lecturers, some of them
well enough thought-of to be
much in evidence in the esoteric
Third Programme of the 8.8. C.
In less rarefied spheres, I’ve
met an Australian electrician
and an Australian cinema-
manager, heard Australian
accents amongst the ordinary
residents of Yorkshire, seen
houses in London suburbs
dubbed “Katoomba,” “Coogee”
and “Yarra,” and, once in a
small town in Angus, Scotland,
“Parramatta.”
I also have to record, with
regret, that the first bloke to put
the bite on me in a London
street was an Aussie. But, then,
there are some of us who don’t
set the Thames on fire.
MORE THAN A MATCH
By "VOROPINI"
RA BA U L lay inert,
encircled by a half-moon
of hills and mountains.
From the volcajio across
the bay whiffs of sulphur drifted
in the air.
On this steamy Saturday
afternoon Chinese storekeepers
fanned themselves resignedly in
their empty shops. In the shade
of mango-trees and casuarinas,
dark-skinned bodies squatted
and sprawled. Open doors and
shutters stood motionless in the
still air.
And, on the sportsground,
fast, savage football Sepiks
versus Madang. Brown bodies
shone with sweat to the tomtom
of bare feet running. Impartial
roars of delight marked every
incident in the game. The
umpire was already looking
nervous. Last week the Madang
team had won the match, but the
Sepiks had beaten them in the
fight that followed.
This week the fight beat the
whistle.
In less than a minute, down
the road from the guardhouse
came a full guard of Royal Papua
and New Guinea Constabulary,
a solid body of chocolate-brown
skin, scarlet-edged navy tunics
and pipe-clayed belts, with side-
arms banging against hard
thighs. By the time they arrived
at the sportsground scores of
spectators were mixing-it as
willingly as any of the players.
The duty-sergeant, Sergeant
Ulilio, tall, rangy, black-skinned,
his close-cropped fuzzy hair shot
with grey, commanded. He was
a Morobe of the Waria River ;
and, as everyone knows, the
Waria River breeds men. This
broad swirling stream of hungry
brown water is so much a part
of their lives that all boys must
conquer the river by ordeal to
attain manhood. They must
bridge it where no man can
swim. This they do by flinging
across a light bush - rope,
weighted at one end, until it
tangles in the foliage on the other
side. They must haul themselves
over by this (which may, or may
not, hold), pulling heavier cane-
ropes with which to build the
bridge.
On the sportsground at
Rabaul, Sergeant Ulilio led the
flying wedge of the guard clean
through the confusion of flailing
arms and shrieking brawlers and,
changing direction, charged back
and split them again. The uni-
forms and the disciplined speed
of the police broke up the melee.
Most of the spectators suddenly
remembered they had important
business elsewhere, and savage
fingers were reluctantly dis-
engaged from bushy heads of
hair.
Sergeant Ulilio saw the last of
the combatants leaving the field.
He immediately called for a
marker and fell-in the unit to
prevent any of his more enthusi-
astic constables from pursuing
their duty into the town. No
one knew the limits better than
that wise old man.
The unit swung back to the
guardhouse goaded by a litany
which they knew by heart, and
which went something like
this:
“Of course it would be too
much to expect that a senior
sergeant could get a little sleep
on a Saturday afternoon!”
“I don’t know what's come
over the younger generation, but
I do know that I could have
broken-up a little argument like
that by myself ten years ago”
. . . and so-on up the hot road.
Maintaining the dour grim-
ness of expression that the
occasion called-for, the con-
stables conceded that the Old
Man was at the top of his form
this afternoon.
"OACK at the guardhouse the
parade was dismissed, and
with a venomous glance Ulilio
shepherded his men in to the
“ready”-hut to add a few after-
thoughts on the general subject
of discipline according to the
gospel of the Royal Papua and
New Guinea Constabulary and
its prophet, Senior-sergeant
Ulilio.
With a sudden glare he wiped
an incautious grin off the face of
Lance-corporal Semangen, but
relented enough to accept a
kernel of betelnut from him. He
settled down with this peace-
offering in his cheek, helped him-
self to powdered lime from some-
body else’s tin, casually extended
his hand to receive a piece of
betel-pepper, and started chewing
with a grunt of satisfaction.
Everybody eased his belt and
made himself comfortable on his
plank-bed.
“Thank you, Lance-corporal,”
said the sergeant. “Have I ever
told you lads how I got my first
stripe? They weren’t given away
for nothing in those days, you
know.
“All this happened before the
war, when I was a young man.
In those days they didn’t send
us in boats, so when a ship
brought the mail to the head-
quarters-station, it meant five
hard days’ walk east for some-
body, carrying a mailbag to the
furthest plantation, and five days
back. Letters were delivered
to about six plantations on the
outward journey, and replies
picked-up on the way back.
“On the way back I decided
I’d like a decent meal of rice and
meat at Asepsep plantation. It
was my last call, anyway, and
still three days’ walk to the
station where the number-one
kiap lived. He wasn’t a bad kiap,
but very hard if anyone wasted
time on the road. After all, he
was in charge of the district —
Mr. Stanley: does anyone
remember him?
“It was dark by the time I
got near Asepsep.
“lire mail-run’s all right in
the dry s.eason, but this was the
big wet, when it rains right
through your hair, and into your
eyes, and you couldn’t see even
if it didn’t... . . and this rain isn’t
warm, falling rain. It’s thrown
at you by the wind that comes
from the big seas.”
A SEPSEP, continued Sergeant
Ulilio, is an island, and
lines of coconut-palms cover
about half of it. Only a
few strokes of the paddle take
you across from the mainland ;
but although I shouted for a
canoe, nobody heard me. So I
stood a little shelter up, covered
it with banana-leaves, and
wrapped myself and my rifle in
my groundsheet to try to sleep.
The next morning, as soon as
it started to get light, I could see
people walking around on the
island. I wondered why, because
it was a Sunday. I called for a
canoe, and a workboy came and
paddled me over. The boss-boy
had come down to the beach to
meet me by the time I landed.
Tamulia was a big, powerful
man, muscular, under middle-
age, with very black skin: the
sort who never gave an order
twice.
I was amazed at the welcome
I got (most pepple feed us, but
that doesn’t mean they love us)
until he told me that someone
had broken into the store the
night before. The white manager
was away, so Tamulia was in
charge, and this was his trouble.
As far as he knew, they had
stolen money, soap, sweets and
a lot of laplap material.
I told him how hungry I was,
and we went up to his house
in the labor-compound. While
his wife was cooking the rice he
walked up and down outside the
house, telling me all about the
robbery. There was no need for
secrecy. Everyone on the island
knew by this time.
Just at dusk last night he had
been walking past the store and
had heard a noise. It was too
dark to see whether the store had
been broken into, and nobody
replied when he called out, so he
went back some distance to the
-'compound to get a lamp and
returned to the store.
By the light of the lamp he
saw that the lock had been
broken off, and he could tell
from looking at the shelves that
some things had been stolen.
There was nobody in sight when
he got back to the store. This
didn’t surprise me, because
Tamulia was a beach-Manus,
and nobody fights a beach-
Manus if he can avoid it. I told
him then he was a fool to go
back and get the lamp. .He
should have stayed there and
called for help. He answered
that he was afraid it might be
only a rat. You know what
shame a Manus would have if the
story got round that he needed
help to kill a rat. I laughed at
him. He was furious!
After I had eaten much and
slept a little, I went to look at
the store. It was the usual type
of plantation trade-store, about
the size of a village house, but
built on the ground, with corru-
gated-iron sides and roof. The
lock on the double-doors had
been broken.
We went inside and looked
around very carefully. All the
money in the money-box had
been stolen, but the boss-boy
didn’t know exactly what else,
or how much. The store was still
tidy, but my thought was that
they had taken from the open
shelves what each man could
carry.
I made Tamulia nail-up the
door and sat down and made a
cigarette. This was something to
think about.
Do you know Asepsep island?
On one side there is Asepsep
plantation and its labor-com-
pound, and on the other the
village Asepsep and its garden.
First, I had to find out where the
stolen stuff was.
OOME kanakas from the village
and some plantation work-
boys sat close by watching me.
They were talking, and I could
hear the kanakas all blaming the
workboys, and the workboys
blaming the kanakas. It would
take a month to search the whole
village and the labor-compound,
and besides, if the thieves got
frightened, they could easily hide
what they had stolen in the
bush ; so I wanted to guess right.
I finished four cigarettes while
I sat there in the sun, listening
and thinking.
The roads on the island are
like a tree with two arms. The
main road, like the trunk, runs
from the beach and up past the
store. There it separates. One
arm goes up to the labor-
compound and the other down
to the village.
I decided to have a look.
Although it was nearly lunch-
time a lot of kanakas and work-
boys followed me and I walked
slowly up the main road, search-
ing each side carefully. Then
I turned up towards the com-
pound and walked along there,
still searching. I found nothing,
so I went back and searched the
road leading to the village.
Quite close to the fork I saw
something in the ditch, and sent
a child from the village down to
get it. He brought up a couple
of laplaps, a knife, two sticks of
tobacco and two boxes of
matches, all separate as if they
had been dropped in a hurry. I
wrapped these up in one of the
laplaps after the boss-boy had
counted them with me.
Then I looked very hard at all
the village kanakas, one at a
time. They met my eyes, but
some of them shuffled their toes
uneasily in the mud. I told them
to prepare a canoe for me, with
paddlers, because I was going
straight to the kiap to report
this theft.
I gave them no other words,
but they did this very quickly
and they gave me a good canoe,
too, with six young paddlers,
three in front of the platform
where I sat, and three behind.
As soon as we were out of
sight of the beach I unwrapped
the bundle and struck a match.
Although my tobacco was
running low, I felt I had earned
a smoke, and I used another
match to light it.
The canoe’s crew did well, and
we landed at headquarters two
days later.
It was late afternoon, but the
kiap was still in the office work-
ing the wireless., When he had
finished, I marched (marched!
Lance-corporal Semangen!) and
gave him a butt-salute as I halted,
as I’ve tried to show you, with
a rifle at the slope, forearm
parallel to the ground, elbow in
and right foot smartly down.
He asked me about the mail-
run, and I told him. I told him
everything I have told you
about what happened at Asepsep,
showed him the exhibits and put
them on the table. I knew where
the rest of the stolen goods had
been hidden, but it was not my
business to tell the kiap what
to do, so when I’d finished the
story I stood at ease waiting
and watching him.
Looking back on all this, I
believe now that the thoughts of
my success showed in my face
and in the way I stood, but if I
was clever enough to find the
answer to this problem, surely
the kiap could do it! Anyway,
as I said, it’s not for us to tell
our officers what to do. We
look to them.
The kiap got out his pipe and
found his tobacco, then filled
his pipe slowly. Most of the time
he looked up at me as if there
was something he didn’t under-
stand. Then—and I remember
it as if it was yesterday—he took
some matches from his pocket,
but they were damp. I handed
him one of the boxes I had
brought from Asepsep, and he lit
a match.
After he had lighted his pipe,
he suddenly blew the match out
and laughed at me.
“Ulilio, you old so-and-so!”
He smiled with his eyes while
he seemed stern. “How many
police will you need to search
the labor-compound?”
“The labor-compound, sir?” I
said, as if I were surprised.
“Yes, you wicked man!” he
replied. “No more humbug!
You leave in the launch
tomorrow morning at first cock-
crow. Now go and pick your
police.”
He had two really good salutes
that day. I gave him my best
salute as I left. I felt he under-
stood that the salute when I came
in was because I was a little
proud of what I had done. The
second salute was for him.
TTE saw us off the next morn-
ing ; three picked constables
and myself, with the three
members of the launch-crew. We
were at Asepsep before dusk.
During the day I had told my
men where to go and what to do.
We went straight to the labor-
compound. There we found
Tamulia, who told me that all
the workers were there after
work. I posted my men so that
no one could run away, and,
with the boss-boy, I searched the
compound. In the second hut all
the stolen stuff was in the boxes
of two men, whose plank-beds
were side by side.
When Tamulia exclaimed that
this wq£ impossible, because part
of the stuff had been found on
the road to the village, I told
him to sit down on one of the
beds. I explained to him that
I had struck one of the matches
soon after I had got into the
canoe. It had lighted at once,
but it had rained very heavily all
night, after the theft and before
we found the matches, so the
things had been thrown into the
ditch after the rain had stopped,
just before cock-crow.
He didn’t like this, in front of
the rest of the labor who had
crowded in to listen, but you
boys can remember this. The
beach-Manus may be very
clever, and very strong but
sometimes we Morobes can still
show them something!
“TyHEN I got back to the
headquarters-station with
the two guilty men,” Sergeant
Ulilio concluded, “the kiap gave
me a letter to the police training-
centre, where I did my N.C.O.’s
course. Five months later I gave
my wife this stripe—see, this
one oji the bottom —to sew on
my tunic.
“The kiap was pleased. My
wife was pleased. The Asepsep
villagers were so delighted that
the next time I went there they
gave me a big dance and laughed
nearly all night.
“Tamulia, the boss-boy, has
never forgiven me.”


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy (in good order) of double-
page color-spread of tablets and
capsules printed in (?) “A.M.” a year
or two ago. (Wanted for use as basis
of hospital-chart.)—6347.
To buy the following books by
Steele Rudd — On Our Selection,
Sandy’s Selection (two copies), Our
New Selection, Back at Our Selection,
The Old Homestead, and The Poor
Parson (two copies).—634B.
Words of old-time musical mono-
logues “Yard of Lace” and “For 1
had but eighteenpence.”—6349.
To buy Australasiatic reminiscences
of 23 years’ wanderings including
travels with Dr. Leichhardt in North
or Tropical Australia, by D. Bunce
(Melbourne, 1857; 216 pp.); Burke
and his companions. The Victoria
exploring expedition from its origin
to the return from Carpentaria, by
R. O’H. Burke (Melbourne, 1861; 176
pp.); Burke and Wills exploring
expedition: An account of the cross-
ing of the continent of Australia from
Cooper’s Creek to Carpentaria, by
Burke and Wills (Melbourne, 1861; 35
pp.); Some account of the wars,
extirpation, habits, etc., of the native
tribes o’f Tasmania, by J. E. Calder
(Hobart, 1875; 115 pp.); Discovery
of Australia, by Calvert; and
Narrative of an expedition undertaken
for the exploration of the country
lying between Rockingham Bay and
Cape York, by W. Carron (Sydney,
1849).—6350.
Information Supplied
From H. R. Home (Earlwood,
N.S.W.): It is possible that the places
in the district of Inverness (Scotland)
referred to (B. 13/6/’56) are
Kilmorack (not Kiloinick) and
Drumnadrochit (not Drumoinivick).
Both are rural districts about 12 miles
from the town of Inverness, where I
spent my boyhood.
Information Sought
Is it correct that N.S.W. had
postage-stamps before England ?
Embossed covers were on sale as
from Nov. 1, 1838, at a price of Is.
3d. per dozen. These covers consisted
of sheets of paper which were
embossed by means of a circular die
on which were engraved the Royal
Coat of Arms and the words “General
Post Office, Sydney, New South
Wales.” Strictly speaking, they were
not postage-stamps as we under-
stand the term today. However, it
was definitely a form of prepaid
postage, and as such has been
claimed to be the first in the world
on an organised basis. It was not
until Jan. 1, 1850, that the first
postage-stamps were on sale in
Sydney. Covers were first sold in
England in May, 1840, and were
known as Mulreaay postage-
envelopes. Embossed envelopes were
sold for the first time in England on
Jan. 1, 1841. (Information from the
Postmaster-General’s Department.)
* * * *
What is the story behind the plaque
marking “Emma’s Well’'’ at the spring
flowing from the built-up stone wall
on New South Head road between
Vaucluse and Rose Bay (Sydney)?
There are various stories concern-
ing its origin. One Patrick Reynolds
stated many years ago that an old
aboriginal couple, Peter and Emma
Collins, lived in a slab hut opposite
the site where Rose Bay Convent now
stands. Emma carried water from
a spring to the hut, and Reynolds
said he one day wrote the name
Emma’s Well in chalk on rock adjoin-
ing the spring and afterwards always
referred to it by that name. J. C.
Dowling, who knew Woollahra well,
wrote in 1923 that the stone trough
at the spring was always known as
Emma’s Well, but gave no reason
why. Other old residents, however,
said they always knew the place as
The Spring and never as Emma’s
Well; some claim it was always
known as St. Agnes’ Well. William
Whitehead said he saw the stone
trough deposited on the roadside in
1874. W. A. Thorne, son of George
Thome, of Claremont, Rose Bay,
stated that it was through his father’s
efforts the original trough was cut.
In 1930 a tablet was erected by the
Woollahra Council bearing the follow-
ing inscription: “Emma’s Well. This
tablet was placed in position By the
Woollahra Municipal Council in 1930.
To mark this spring whereat This
stone trough was provided in 1874.”
(Information from the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society.)
* * * *
How to get rid of tussocks (other
than digging them out) without
destroying pastures ?
Control-measures for tussocks vary
according to circumstances, but the
only direct approach other than
digging-out would be by spraying with
a herbicide such as sodium-chlorate
or T.C.A. These, however, would
destroy all other growth with which
they came in contact. Many tussock-
grasses can be controlled by pasture-
improvement : with the increased
fertility of the soil, tussock-grasses
become more palatable and are eaten
more readily by stock. Difficult to
give a precise answer without know-
ing what species of plant it is and
further details regarding its occur-
rence. (Reply from N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture.)
* * * *
How to tan rabbit-skins ?
Remove all ragged edges, pieces of
flesh or fat, and shake off dirt from
the fur. In half-gallon of boiling
water, dissolve Boz. salt and 12oz.
alum, and set aside to cool. Mix
|-lb. flour with cold water to a paste,
and stir into the cooled salt-alum
water. Make up the mixture to one
gallon. Liberally coat this mixture
on to the skin sides of the furs daily
for three or four days, then hang out
to dry. When dry, rub with a piece
of pumice, and work the skins in the
hands to make them pliable. The
addition of a half-pint of neatsfoot
(animal) oil to the tanning solution
is an advantage. If skins have dried
out before tanning, soak them in
water for a few hours, but do not let
them become too waterlogged.
Brief Answers
M.J.: Section 42 of the Common-
wealth of Australia Constitution Act
provides that “Every Senator and
every member of the House of Repre-
sentatives shall before taking his
seat make and subscribe before the
Governor-General, or some person
authorised by him, an oath or affirma-
tion of allegiance in the form set forth
in the schedule to this Constitution.”
L.C.S.: The Shiplovers’ Society
of Victoria advises that full informa-
tion on the windjammer Moshulu can
be obtained from J. Ferrell Colton,
of Flagstaff, Arizona (U.S.A.), or
Captain P. A. McDonald, of 510
Bellevue North, Seattle, Washington
(U.5.A.)... .Nemo: (1) The N.S.W.
Milk Board, 67-69 Regent-street,
Sydney. (2) Have requested the
board to send answers to your ques-
tions direct to you Val: (1) As
far as we know, it has been long out
of production, and would not now
be easily obtainable. (2) It would
be too big and cumbersome, any-
way, and unsuitable for use in a
caravan D.C.T.: According to
French law, a married woman must
follow her husband wherever he
chooses to go. If she does not,
the husband is entitled to ask for a
divorce, which will be granted. This
is, of course, according to the “code
civil”... .W.W.: Write Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society, History
House, 8 Young-street, Sydney
K.McA.: : (1) Write Commonwealth
Statistician (N.S.W. Division), 428
George-street, Sydney. (2) and (3)
Uncertain what it is you seek. (4)
Write Clerk of the Children’s Court,
Commonwealth-street and Albion-
street, Sydney. (5) Write Common-
wealth Department of Social Services,
52 Carrington-street, Sydney
LJ.: The famous midnight ride
by Paul Revere (April, 1775) was to
warn the American colonists during
the War of Independence that the
British were preparing to leave Boston
to capture American stores at Con-
cord. He rode from Charleston to
Lexington, where he was captured by
British patrols; it actually a
young doctor named Samuel Prescott
(who was riding with Revere) who
carried the warning all the way to
Concord C.J.S.: Write Society of
Australian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-
street, Sydney. A small fee is charged
for the research involved; the
information you ask for can probably
be discovered, but it is not readily to
hand E.J.L.: (1) The N.S.W.
Incorporated Law Institute has no
record of a solicitor named Gray or
Grey practising in Sydney in 1918.
(2) Write the Prothonotary, Supreme
Court, Sydney, who may be able to
advise A.L.: Ida S. Rentoul (Mrs.
A. G. Outhwaite) is the daughter of
Rev. Dr. J. L. Rentoul, who published
several volumes of verse. She wrote
and illustrated A Bunch of Wild
Flowers (published by Angus and
Robertson in 1933, it has run to
various editions), and has written and
illustrated fairy books for children.
She has also illustrated several books
of poetry by her sister, Annie
Rattray Rentoul Mrs. O.: (1) The
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
states that the presence of the root-
knot eelworm in a soil will be
detected by characteristic effects pro-
duced on the roots of susceptible
plants. Eelworms invade a particular
soil as the result of the addition of
infested material (such as compost or
other soil). (2) We have mislaid your
address; if you write us again, we
will forward the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture’s plant-disease leaflet
No. 38, “Root Knot or Root Gall.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
D.P.: That's a very ambitious
ocean C.A.M.: The little chat with
the moon is not too bad, but nothing
new in it....J.W.8.: There’s the
right feeling in both. The verse too
thin Ithaca: How can you bear
to begin a poem with the line “Aus-
tralian country life! Outstanding
debt”? 8.P.P.L.: Come in and
roar:
You’ll have heard of all the progress that
has hit the bush of late ;
You’ll have heard we have amenities
galore;
But you ought to hear what we think,
when our roads disintegrate
And petrol tar don’t mend ’em any more.
W.L.: The Religious Editor has
no objection to your preferring birds
to sermons, but says that “key”
rhymed with “joyfully” is too facile.
.... D.K.: Never begin a poem with
“Have you ever?”... .C.S.: Write
simply and naturally as in the first
part of “The Island.” Don’t use inver-
sions such as “age eleven,” “nectar
grand” and “adventure great”
S.H.: The corvette’s an old-timer. We
sank her L.McK.: Something’s
wrong with the end of that bomber-
poem. It doesn’t end G.A.W.:
Monstrous and subversive sentiments
are always to be encouraged; so here
you go:—
No, cricket’s not the game I’d play,
I wouldn’t if 1 could.
I’d sooner go and milk a cow
Or chop a bit of wood.
....J.K.S.: The last two lines of
“The Trees,” though sentimental, are
at least smooth, clear, direct and
pretty N.H.J.: Try writing for
children M.M.R-: Just jingle.
K.H.: “Darkness into Light” has
patches of both. Read some modem
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
Australian poe t r y... .8.E.F.5.:
Borrow a typewriter 8.J.8.:
Modernise your language. What’s the
use of calling the sun “Sol”? J.L.:
Don’t care much for those wow-
ending verses; and, besides, it’s rude.
G.Y.: “Dark rigid night hath
froze my very soul.” Hast thought
on rum? O.O.: Chuck it L.S.:
Bother the bomb! V.W.R.: Lay it
on her doorstep with a nosegay of
violets H.Q.: Admire your
attempt to rhyme Hopalong with
wobbegong, but it makes a very woe-
begone mixture.
Australian Mines and Metals Association (Inc.)
REPORT OF THIRTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL MEETING
THE THIRTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL MEETING of the Association was held
at Osborne House, Melbourne, on TUESDAY, 26th JUNE, 1956, at 2.15 p.m.
After the Notice convening the
Meeting had been read, the Minutes
of the Thirty-Seventh Annual Meet-
ing of the Association, held on 21st
June, 1955, were signed by the
Chairman.
In moving the adoption of the
Directors’ Report and Statements of
Account, the Acting President (Mr.
G. Lindesay Clark) said:
I must first apologise for the
absence of our Chairman, Mr. Harry
Hey, who is abroad. I am sure we
all wish him a very pleasant and use-
ful trip.
We meet to-day at a time when the
pressures on the Australian economy
are evident for all to see. Among the
problems arising are those in which
the Association is closely concerned,
namely, the relationships of employers
and employees in industries largely
concerned with export. I might, there-
fore, refer briefly to some of the
broad aspects of the situation.
Australia is faced with a crisis in
the shortage of export income while,
at the same time, our internal price
level is still rising and therefore adding
to the difficulty in maintaining, let
alone increasing, our present
inadequate exports.
Most people would probably agree
that our first aim must be to develop
Australia and increase our population
so as to be able to hold the country.
The other insistent claim is for further
improving standards of living. Our
actions should be judged in the light
of these two primary objectives. If
we are to proceed with our present
substantial rate of growth we must
examine every possible means of
promoting export income.
Expansion of Mining
Rarely can there have been a more
appropriate time to refer to the
opportunities which the mining
industry affords for greatly increased
export income and for the settlement
and absorption of population through-
out the country rather than in and
about the great cities. Among the
main groups of industry, the mineral
industry is one which has scope for
expansion on the scale needed to make
a major contribution to our long term
export balance. I therefore propose
to refer broadly to the history of min-
ing and the field for mineral develop-
ment in Australia and the means
whereby expansion of production
might be achieved.
Australian mining began with the
discovery of gold in the ’fifties of last
century, in the course of which pros-
pecting extended over most of the
continent and the various well-known
gold fields were, from time to time,
found, ending with the Western Aus-
tralian deposits in the closing years of
the nineteenth century. Production,
following the initial discoveries,
rapidly rose to about 3m. ounces per
annum and then slowly decreased until
the Western Australian discoveries,
when output again increased to nearly
4m. ounces per annum but fell to
some 2.2 m. ounces by 1913.
Exploration for base metals lagged
behind gold and it was not until the
lafe ’seventies that the series of dis-
coveries of gossan types of outcrops
led to the finding of most of the
main base metal fields of to-day.
Since that time there has, broadly,
been a steady increase in production
of base metals, until in 1954 the gross
value of production was in excess of
£9om. of which some £som. was
exported. As Australian consump-
tion is already met, any new produc-
tion would add to export. For
example, a new mine producing 25,000
tons of lead per annum, not a very
large mine, would provide some £3m.
extra income.
Gold mining suffered a severe set-
back due to the 1914-18 War and the
subsequent inflation. In consequence,
output fell until, by 1929, it had
dropped to some 400,000 ounces. In
the favourable atmosphere of the next
ten years, production increased again
to over 1.6 m. ounces per annum by
1939. Since that date, production has
fallen again, under the pressure of
inflation and circumstances, in general,
similar to those after the 1914-18 War,
and is now about I.lm. ounces, which
provides approximately $4O million of
exchange.
By the end of last century, most of
the outcropping orebodies had prob-
ably been found. Exploration had
been uneven; in some fields there had
been considerable exploration, more
particularly in gold, for orebodies
close to outcrops, in others, little had
been done. Production, to-day, both
of gold and base metals comes, with
a few exceptions, from the continua-
tion in depth of outcrops discovered in
these years, or from orebodies in their
immediate vicinity. There has been,
except for gold, to which I will refer
later, little sustained exploration, until
recently, of the mineral provinces
since that time.
In the face of this history, have
we any reason for supposing that
exploration would result in the finding
of ore on a great scale and consequent
increased production? Perhaps the
most pertinent fact in favour of this
view is the general experience, the
world over, and matched in Aus-
tralia, that mineral provinces have
much greater potential than ever
thought possible from the initial work
in the districts. Who would have
thought, 50 years ago, that Broken
Hill would have had the potential
disclosed to-day? Similarly, Kal-
goorlie, Mount Lyell, Mount Isa, etc.,
now seem to have a productive
capacity much in excess of early
expectations. The same may be said
of most fields subjected to continued
prospecting.
Gold production in Australia is a
matter of economics. In the ’thirties,
when economic conditions of gold
mining changed from being highly
adverse to favourable, prospecting
revived and was followed by rapid
increase in production. As noted
earlier, production which had fallen
to some 400,000 ounces in 1929, had
again risen to 1.6 m. ounces by 1939.
Portion of this increase came from
the revival of operating mines, but,
along with those, went the prospecting
and re-establishment of old fields
previously abandoned.
Canadian Experience
The history of Canadian mining has
often been referred to as a classic
example of the results of sustained
exploration. The value of Canadian
base metal production has increased as
follows: —
1900 s4lm.
1925 SI 17m.
1950 s6l7m.
1955 SlOOlm.
In addition to the above, during
1955 six large, new base metal mines
were being developed in Canadian
fields which had not previously yielded
any large orebodies. This followed
intense prospecting.
In Canada, some 4 million feet of
diamond drilling was done in 1954,
which had risen to 5 million feet in
1955, although, under present
economic circumstances, prospecting
for gold had been negligible.
It is doubtful if, until, perhaps, the
last year or so, 10 per cent, of this
footage has been done in Australia.
The relative total expenditure in
Canada and here on exploration for
minerals other than oil is probably of
the same order.
A noteworthy feature of the
Canadian experience, referred to
above, is that not only the main pro-
ducing areas have found extensions of
their mineralisations but, in some
provinces with small or meagre
mineralisation, exploration below the
surface has disclosed large orebodies
whose existence was previously unsus-
pected.
While there are various economic
influences in Canada which may not
operate here, the fact remains that
where exploration has been carried
on in the mineral provinces, mineral
wealth in quite unsuspected amounts
has quite frequently been discovered.
It might be said that this is well
enough, but Canada is much more
widely and intensively mineralised
than Australia. Actually this is quite
uncertain.
Prospects in Australia
In Australia there is an immense
field for prospecting around deposits
already discovered. To quote an
actual case, the Norseman district in
Western Australia is perhaps the only
field to be prospected in recent years
with the intensity common in Canada.
Production over the 40 years prior to
1933 amounted to 580,000 ounces; for
the 22 years subsequently, 1.2 m.
ounces have been produced and there
is strong evidence for expecting pro-
duction to continue for many years.
In base metals there are mineral
provinces in Tasmania, Western New
South Wales, North Queensland and
the Northern Territory and others of
similarly unknown potential, in none
of which has exploration been under-
taken on a scale approaching that of
Canada. The difference in mineral
development between the two
countries may quite well be much
more due to the difference in the
effort made to develop them than to
the respective potentials. The
increased Canadian exploration effort
and subsequent increased production
followed and was undoubtedly greatly
influenced by the enactment of favour-
able taxation laws.
If we wish to expand our produc-
tion here, how, then, should we
proceed?
It is not sufficient to have surveys
of the various provinces and their
history, though these are important
enough. It is an immensely greater
task. The potential of these districts
will only be disclosed by intensive
exploration which will need great sums
and may very well require several
decades to carry through in territory
as extensive as Australia. Explora-
tion is expensive and risky work.
Many individual efforts, even in
attractive areas, will fail, but, from
mining history, one would expect a
few great successes and a number of
modest ones. In the aggregate, such
a result could provide the resources
for greatly expanded production.
Encouragement of Mining
In what ways might exploration and
development be fostered?
Gold is in a somewhat different
position to the .base metals since the
present economic conditions due to
the fixed gold price and rising costs
are so adverse to gold. Prospecting on
this account is restricted. Likewise,
although there are quite a few deposits
known and partially developed, the
resources required for their develop-
ment and equipment are not forth-
coming, except in a few specially
favourable circumstances.
In the United States, the develop-
ment of marginal mineral properties
has been facilitated by loans on easy
terms from the Government and has
had notable successes in this way.
Provision of finance in a similar way
by the Government for selected pro-
jects could bring about a substantial
increase in gold production over the
course of the next few years.
As regards base metals, although
prices are high, costs both of equip-
ment and production are also high.
In Canada and the United States, very
favourable terms of taxation have
been granted to mining companies
which include a fuller recognition of
the wasting asset aspect of mines as
well as the financial hazards involved.
A liberalisation of the present laws in
this respect could give a most fruit-
ful impetus to venture capital to seek
new sources of base metals.
Prospecting is gradually getting
increasing help from improving
scientific aids of various sorts, by
means of which the exploration can
be better directed. Most exploration
ultimately is carried out by diamond
drilling. Subsidy of diamond drilling
campaigns on selected projects would
be one of the most effective direc-
tions in which direct aid to prospect-
ing could be given, should govern-
ments wish to do so. This applies
both to gold and base metal mining.


The use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings for tail-
ing lambs is steadily
growing in popularity
despite the note of
caution which appears
in the Elastrator
handbook. Many
graziers are of the
opinion that the
warning is over-
stressed and that, with
the usual protective
precautions taken, the
rubber ring technique
is definitely preferable
to other tailing
methods. According to
a number af graziers
tailing by rubber rings
reduces infection
risks.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” (1£ h.p.)
“MAJOR” (3 h.p.)
Both rotary scythe, mow, cultivate, hoe, etc.
Our illustration shows the “Series II”
Plough. The “MAJOR’S” Plough will
plough 9in. cut up to 9in. depth.
You can see the job either of these ploughs
do on your writing or telephoning your State Dis-
tributor for demonstrations of these tractors and
their accessories.
mn
N.S.W.: HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD., 32 Whiting St., Artannon.
JF 4396. GRAZCOS CO-OP. LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
Victoria: ORAZCOS CO-OP. LTD., 00 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pultenev St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND LTD., 115 York St., Launceston.
Laun. 2645. 173 Murray St., Hobart. B 2264.
WJL.: WESTERN MACHINERY Co. Pty. Ltd., 494 Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD., 32 Whiting
St., Artarmon. JF 4396.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PLEURO. INOCULATION
WHEN pleuro - pneumonia
breaks out in a travelling
mob it’s often impossible to get
syringes to inoculate the cattle
in the recommended manner. But
a drover, if he knows how, can
do the job in the old way.
After the stock-inspector has
quarantined the mob (usually for
a period of three months), put
the cattle in yards with a crush,
taking care to leave any obvi-
ously affected beasts where they
are. Then pick out a beast that
is standing apart from the rest,
with head down, back slightly
arched, saliva dripping from the
mouth, bleary and watery eyes,
which, if moved on, shows a
tendency to charge and gives a
wet cough. Shoot him from the
saddle, then cut the throat high
up near the jowls.
Prop-up the carcass on its
back with a couple of stakes and
cut off the shoulder nearest to
you with a large butcher’s-knife.
This done, break back a couple
of ribs nearest the severed
shoulder: this gives you a full
view of the lungs. You’ll find
that the lungs contain a quantity
of straw-colored liquid; this is
the virus you need. Sometimes
the liquid will be streaked with
blood ; this makes no difference
so long as you use it at once.
Now take a length of
thoroughly sterilised moleskin
(boiling it is the drover’s easiest
method of sterilisation), cut it
into strips and soak in the virus,
which has been kept in wet bags.
Run the cattle through the crush
and, with a double-edged knife,
push a piece of the virus-soaked
moleskin through the skin of the
tail at a point just above the
switch. Take care not to touch
the bone of the tail with the
knife-blade. If needles are used
instead of a knife, several needles
can be kept threaded from the
tray holding the virus-soaked
strips of moleskin. The actual
inoculation is done by taking the
animal’s tail in the left-hand and
pushing the operating-tool in
with the right-hand; it isn’t
difficult.
When the inoculation is
finished drive the mob to a point
some distance away from the
several animals which have not
been inoculated (because of the
advanced stage of the disease).
Keep an eye on both lots of
cattle: the inoculated mob for
signs of rotten tail, the uninocu-
lated beasts for recovery or
worsening of the trouble. Beasts
which get worse should be shot.
Don’t go among the cattle on
foot, but ride around them from
time to time, and watch. If you
notice rotten-tail cut the beasts
out, run them gently through
the crush and cut the tail above
the rot with a hatchet. Dab the
cut end with a tar-stick, and the
animal will be right to go back
to the mob.
The important thing to remem-
ber is that the beast you have
killed to get the virus must be
handled with care. Don’t dress
the carcass as you would for
beef, but take off the shoulder
and proceed as explained.
This technique, which may
seem primitive to many veterin-
arians, has stood the test of
time and has enabled drovers and
cattlemen to inoculate on the
spot, thus saving big losses on
the road or in the paddock.
Pleuro. mostly attacks fats or
near-fats. I have inoculated
many hundreds of cattle this
way.
Jim Matheson.
Russian-comfrey
I am pleased to learn that
there is another Russian-comfrey
plot in Australia in addition to
my own (B. 11/4/’56), and that
this valuable plant grows equally
well in the warmer soil of N. S.
Wales and in this cold southerly
district of Victoria (Red Hill
South is 45 miles south of Mel-
bourne G.P.0.).
My plants are the giant
Webster strain of Russian-
comfrey, from the Southery trial-
plot in England that produced
the sample containing 33.68 per
cent, dry-matter protein a
unique case of protein-content
exceeding carbohydrates.
I fed comfrey to various stock,
and (as mentioned earlier) found
cows and pigs relished it, even on
full stomachs. I have also fed
it to poultry, with success, but
pigs seem to make the most
economical use of it. The state-
ment that it banishes scours has
been confirmed by pig-raisers
who have used it over long
periods.
I have observed that the plant
is tolerant of low temperatures.
It kicks-off in the spring before
the grass, grows fast throughout
the summer, and continues into
the autumn.
Like Mr. Leacock [the N. S.
Wales grower], we, too,
have found comfrey an excellent
vegetable when cooked like
spinach. The New Zealand
Government entomologists
report that there are no known
insect-pests.
Comfrey shows a distinct pre-
ference for organic fertilisers,
especially concentrated ones like
poultry - manure. Organic
fertilisers also increase the
earthworm - population, and
earthworms, besides improving
the soil generally, lengthen the
growing-season by raising the
soil-temperature in cold weather.
As a summer-grower I have
found it excellent. It grew
through one of the driest
summers we have had in this
district. During this rainless
period there was no pasture-
growth at all, but we made a 16-
ton cut of comfrey every four
weeks. If comfrey can increase
milk-production in the summer
—and my experiments prove that
it can —the crop is of consider-
able value on this score alone.
Interest in Russian-comfrey
here in Victoria is intense. Some
600 farmers have visited my
property to see it growing and
many more have written to me.
The State agricultural-press has
had so many inquiries that I
have been invited to write a
number of articles.
Some parts of Gippsland are
so fertile that yields of 200 tons
of comfrey per acre are quite
possible. Twelve-pound plants
were not uncommon in my plot,
and these plants were not yet one
year old. Twelve pounds per
plant averaged over an acre for
eight cuts (the number of cuts
likely in Australia) would give
a farmer well over 200 tons per
acre. So this production is quite
feasible when the plants are well
established —that is, when they
are from three to four years old.
The soil I am farming is not
naturally fertile, but I have built
it up over the years with organic
manuring. There are soil-types
in Victoria far superior to mine,
yet comfrey on this Red Hill
South land can produce 100 tons
in its first year of growth.
Russian-comfrey was men-
tioned in a report by Von
Mueller [the famous botanist]
about the turn of the century as
having been given a brief trial in
Victoria. I have been unable to
discover what happened to these
early plants.
It is amazing that Russian-
comfrey has been neglected by
agricultural authorities for so
long. Botanical confusion seems
the most likely cause. There
are several members of the
family, generally called “com-
frey,” which are of no agri-
cultural value.
W. F. Savage.
'Toll Devons"
“Cattleman”: “Old Harry”
(B. 23/5/’56) may be interested
to know that another Poll Devon
bull is about to be shipped from
America, to the order of that
well-known and enthusiastic
breeder of Devons Mrs. Janet M.
Officer, of Kilmorey South,
Warrnambool (Vic.).
The stud-stock expert who
selected this young Poll Devon
told me that the bull and his line
are true polls. He added that
the animal was one of the best
specimens of the breed he had
seen, either in America or in
England, well-fleshed, and of
great scale for his age.
As one who has had a lifelong
experience in breeding and
fattening most of the beef-breeds,
I am of the opinion that the
modern type of Devon is without
peer. The Devon thrives from
the tropic north to the southern
coast, fattens well, and in time
of drought is slow to lose condi-
tion. They are thick in the flesh,
and the beef is of excellent
quality. But the horns should be
bred off them.
“Zebu”: “Old Harry’s”
breeder from Mississippi
(U.S.A.), who claims that his
evolved Poll Devons will pro-
duce 100 per cent, poll calves
on horned cows, reminds me of
another, who claims that pure-
bred Santa Gertrudis bulls
crossed over any breed produce
100 per cent, red calves. They
throw all sorts —reds, creamies,
brindles and blacks.
Sand-ridges
“Sundowner”: Once they have
developed in large proportions,
sand-drifts are very difficult to
control. Chief cause, of course,
is overstocking, particularly in
summer. One of the best
preventives is the liberal use of
phosphatic fertilisers, which
stimulate root-development of
the pasture and knit a tighter
turf, thus giving a quicker build-
up of organic-matter.
The layer of organic-matter
acts as a blanket over the raw
soil and lessens susceptibility to
wind-damage. It also assists
moisture - retention - an
important factor.
“Curse that cocky's alarm-clock!"
Best method of dealing with
larger drift-areas is to fence
them off and allow them to
regenerate, sowing with suitable
grasses immediately after the
autumn rains. After 12 months
a corner of the fence may be
taken down and stock permitted
to graze for a restricted time
during winter. The grazing-
period may be extended the
following 12 months, until, after
three years, the fence can be
removed. By then the area
should be fairly well stabilised.
Steep ridges that lie into the
sun and the prevailing wind
should be planted with trees and
fenced-off. In the better-
rainfall districts, Pinus radiata
will be most suitable, as it is
quick-growing and can withstand
the wind. Moreover, very few
deaths occur in the first year
from this species.
Drainage Project
“Cloudy”: Four contractors,
using £500,000-worth of plant,
have been biting drains through
miles of swampy ground in the
south-east of South Australia to
the immediate improvement of
the country, the prosperity of the
landowners, and the running-
total of £3 million to the tax-
payers —a sum supposed to be
recoverable from the land-
owners.
This draining has been going
on since as early as 1858, when
the first 600 square-miles were
surveyed for draining. By 1885,
100,000 acres had been reclaimed
at a cost of £1 10s. an acre (a
figure the administrators
undoubtedly sigh over today).
In 1922 the Government
decided to go into the scheme
more seriously, and formed the
South Eastern Drainage Board.
The board of three members
expects to run its course in
another two years.
But another 400,000 acres
have been surveyed for future
draining; and there’s the ques-
tion whether the present drains,
by themselves, are adequate, or
whether lesser drains will need
to be added for a more complete
run-off.
It doesn’t end there, either.
A thousand miles of drains will
be silting-up and becoming
choked with bulrushes. They
will need to be kept cleaned-out
unless the enterprise is to fail in
its purpose. Also 400 bridges
need regular maintenance and
upkeep.
The necessity for draining is
brought about chiefly by two
factors. Because of the volcanic
nature of the country, and
because it is flat, water lies not
more than 6ft. under the surface
on the low land. In fact, in
winter the pressure causes
springs to bubble-up.
The ranges of low hills which
run parallel with the coast bank-
up run-off water, as there are
no outlets to the sea. The water
is held there in lakes, or large
swamps, or sometimes sluggish
watercourses. The rains pour
down their millions of gallons,
the springs feed-in their quota,
and the swamps and lakes grow
larger and spread. Then, for
miles and miles, potentially good
land lies smothered by blankets
of water.
It is still there when the
summer sun lets out its heat, and
the water stagnates. Any grass
that shows becomes encased in
slime.
The method of draining is not
involved —simply, drains cut
through the flats, taking the
water into the lakes or swamps,
and from there outlets made to
the sea.
The volume of water entering
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
madb in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 813 I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
m
SIROMARK
(REGD. TRADE MARK OF C.5.1.R.0.)
SHEEP BRANP/HG FLOtP
Available in three brilliant colours
RED, GREEN and BLUE (L.B.E. BLACK also available)
n
ORDER NOW
FROM YOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
Marketed in Australia by
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
[Sfi!
SIR. IX. 1933
the lakes is far greater than that
whitfh runs to waste in the sea.
To take this influx of water some
drains are up to 150 ft. wide at the
bottom, though they may only
be 6fk deep.
Mftllicent was the first area to
be drained in the south-east of
South Australia, and was given
full treatment. An area of 125
square-miles averages a mile of
drain to the square-mile. This
work was done in 1880. Later
projects are on a grander scale.
The great areas still untouched
have been taken into considera-
tion in planning, and channels
are made to give maximum
drainage over the greatest area.
Some earlier schemes were not
very helpful. They merely
shifted surplus water from some
of the richer soils and bled it on
to the less rich. Now there is
need to reclaim that land.
Drains tap areas as far back
as Penola, which is 60 miles from
the coast and 200 ft. above sea-
level.
Land formerly inundated now
carries dairy-cattle, fat-cattle and
sheep (in some places three to
the acre). They run in paddocks
of improved pasture. Benefits of
the scheme are plain to see.
Pasture Species
“Peronne”: Like everything
else, certain pasture-species
grow best under certain condi-
tions, and there is no advantage
in trying to make them grow
where something else will grow
better.
Current example is white-
clover —a magnificent species
under irrigation and regular
high rainfall, which is persisting
in places such as Victoria’s
western plains after the succes-
sion of more than usually wet
seasons.
Even so, it is not producing
as much as a pasture of sub.-
clover, rye-grass and phalaris,
which is better suited to the
district and will continue to be
the best mixture in seasons
too dry for white-clover.
Australian pasture-develop-
ment has passed the stage when
the most important things were
to find which land needed which
fertiliser, and which species were
best for which places. Although
a certain amount of research
in fertilisers and species is still
needed, the urgent problem is to
work-out ways of managing
pastures to the best advantage.
Meanwhile, one of the most
versatile species is Palestine
strawberry-clover, which is at
home in the wet patches, and
has also shown promise in the
sandy, alkaline soils of north-
west Victoria low-rainfall
country. But in this area it
can’t compete for productivity
with barrel-clover, or even
lucerne. Again, a case of the best
species for the area: horses for
courses.
Ewe-milk
“Sunset”: The value of feed-
ing ewes well after lambing to
stimulate milk-production is
shown in New Zealand experi-
ments, which indicate that the
milk-supply has at least half the
total influence on lamb-growth.
During a lactation period of
12 weeks the milk-supply of ewes
varied between 12gals. and
30gals. a head, with consequent
variations in the lambs.
Other facts (with Romney
ewes) brought out by the experi-
ments: volume of milk per ewe
increased slightly for the four
weeks after lambing, then
decreased until weaning; the
milk was much richer than cow’s
milk; average fat-content 6 per
cent., solids-not-fat 11 per cent.,
protein 5 per cent.
Ewes with twin-lambs secrete
about 40 per cent, more milk
than singles, but their lambs get
only 70 per cent, of what an
“only” gets; hence the slower
growth-rate of most twins.
Gas-storage of Pears
“Billjim”: Tests by S.A.
horticultural expert W. B.
McGlasson over the past two
years have established that gas-
storage in an atmosphere of
5 per cent, carbon-dioxide, 16
per cent, oxygen and 79 per cent,
nitrogen increased the life of
Packham Triumph pears by two
months, compared with air-
storage.
In addition, increasing the
relative humidity of the storage
to near 100 per cent, effectively
controlled neck-shrivelling with-
out increasing mould-damage.
The trials with the Packham
Triumph variety followed suc-
cessful results from gas-storage
with other varieties in N.S.W.
and Victoria.
Conclusions drawn by
McGlasson are that marketing
of good-quality pears will be
extended until at least the end
of November. The control of
shrivelling suggests that existing
cool-rooms may be used for
gas-storage by the construction
of gas-tight compartments
within the room. A compartment
with a capacity of 200 to 250
boxes would be a convenient
size.
Canary-seed
“Myall”: With the wheat-
market unsteady, and world-
stocks gradually increasing, most
grain-growers are turning their
attention to other crops.
On Queensland's Darling
Downs many thousands of acres
have been turned from wheat-
production to the growing of
canary-seed. Last year’s harvest
totalled approximately 12,000
tons, from an area of 30,000 acres
valued at about £1 million, and
this season’s sowings will be
almost double those figures.
Canary is seeded at the rate of
from 101 b. to 121 b. per acre, and
at the present ruling price of
Is. Id. per lb., it’s a good deal
cheaper to sow than wheat.
Land that will produce a crop
of any cereal is suitable for
canary, and the plant makes
excellent green-fodder cattle
and sheep prefer it to oats, barley
or wheat. After being fed-off,
the paddock may be closed, and
a crop of four to five bags per
acre can be harvested. Yields of
Bcwt. to 9cwt. per acre are quite
common, and at the present price
of £BO per ton for farmer’s
dressed-seed, it’s a better proposi-
tion than most crops. The return
is about £35 per acre.
Wheat, on the other hand,
gives an average return of 30
bushels per acre, and at 12s. per
bushel would net the grower
about £lB per acre ; and he must
wait for many months before he
obtains the final payment from
the board. Merchants pay cash
for canary-seed as soon as it is
loaded on rails.
Main producers of canary-
seed are Argentine, Turkey and
Morocco. Unsettled conditions
in two of these countries have
reduced supplies, to the
advantage of Australian growers.
In the past, the seed produced
in Queensland has been much
smaller in size than the foreign
grain, and this has had a bad
effect on sale. Larger varieties
are now being imported.
One Moroccan type that has
been on trial for three years has
produced as much as 12 bags of
seed per acre (approximately
17cwt.), while the grain is almost
double the size of the old variety.
Several hundreds of bags of this
seed will be sown this season ;
next year little or none of the
small variety will be planted,
growers turning to the large
kind.
Seed-coverings
“Yarrara”: Pasture - seeds
pelleted with a coating of
fertiliser have been used in
U.S.A. in connection with aerial
sowing for some years now. The
technique may be applied here
if the aerial seeding of cereal-
crops gains favor as a result of
last year’s experiment at Dooen,
near Horsham (Vic.).
Australian scientists are also
experimenting with lime-coatings
of clovers on acid-soils to give
a better environment for
germination and nodulation.
Less lime is needed this way than
for broadcasting or drilling.
Another use of pelleting is to
apply a fungicide to onion-seed
to prevent white-rot. Victorian
D. of A. experts advise applying
first a sticker made of 31b. of
resin in a gallon of methylated-
“If the A.W.U. hears about this you’ll cop it, Bill.”
spirit, at the rate of 2 fl. oz. per
lib. of seed.
Mercurous-chloride (calomel)
is stirred until lib. of it is taken
up for each lib. of seed. Sticker
and fungicide are added again
until each lib. of seed has taken
up 21b. of mercurous-chloride.
Fodder-tree
“Ultimo”: Tree-lucerne —used
for fodder by some poultrymen
—can be planted to advantage
on mixed-farms and stock-
farms. Apart from its value
as fodder the tree gives winter
shelter and is nice to look at.
The heavy yield Of greenstuff is
as rich as ordinary lucerne in
protein, vitamins, calcium and
phosphorus.
Once established, tree-lucerne
needs very little water and can
live for many years. Most of
the growth is made in summer
and late autumn —often a critical
period for feed in the wheat-
belt.
In W.A., during this period,
lucerne-trees have yielded as
much as 13 tons of greenstuff
from 100 trees on an acre.
Where growth is kept,young by
repeated cutting there is very
little waste under wheat-country
conditions.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: Root-crops, and
even pumpkins, may be used with
profit to replace a failing pasture
and milk-supply for pregnant
sows. The pigs need up to 61b.
daily of a meat-meal mixture
consisting of one bag of crushed
grain or pollard, 101 b. hay-meal
(lucerne or clover}, 101 b. meat-
meal, 31b. ground-limestone, lib.
salt; but the roots and pumpkins
may be used to replace some of
the meal, provided the sows
receive at least 21b. of the meal-
mixture and some milk each day.
“Big Billy”: Now that the
cold, damp weather has arrived,
special care should be taken of
pigs. In the absence of any
form of heating in the pens, a
hover will provide a warm, safe
place for the piglets and save
many lives. Care must be taken
that young pigs do not get cold
after they are born, for this can
cause mortality before they can
reach the teats of the sow. As
soon as the young pigs look for
other food they should be
encouraged to eat all they can
of the meal-mixture provided for
older pigs, from a separate
trough.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(24/6/’56)
The present general rains in Queensland are further
substantiation of the Single cycle, and in these circum-
stances general rains are likely in a large part of the State
during July. The heaviest falls may occur in the south-west
and southern mid-interior, and in these parts there is a
likelihood of renewed flooding.
New South Wales should also experience general rains
above average, with possibly the heaviest falls in the central-
west and on the north-west slopes and plains. Further
flooding may also occur in these areas, and the position will
require watching in both Queensland and N. S. Wales, as
flooding could become severe.
General rains are also likely in the southern States
during July, and these may be associated with further gales
and rough weather during the first half of the month.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Radio in Schools
There are thousands of schools in Aus-
tralia and most of them have wireless
receiving-sets for pupils to hear the
special schools-broadcasts that have
become a feature of modern education.
Schools do not have to pay a licence-fee
for their receiving-sets, but the machinery
of exemption is as cumbersome as could
be devised.
Each year, on the due date, the princi-
pal of each school receives a politely
worded notice from the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment directing his attention to the fact
that the school’s free broadcast-listener’s
licence is due for renewal. He is
requested to complete an application for
the renewal of the said free licence and to
forward it to the superintendent of the
wireless branch of the department in the
capital tity of the State in which the
school is located. In due course he
receives a licence that enables his school
lawfully to listen to broadcasts.
Surely it should be possible to gazette a
regulation exempting schools from
licence-fees and saving the country the
cost of this polite exchange of red-tape.
—lchabod Crane (N.S.W.).
Public-service Reform
The tendency to swell its numbers has
been a leading characteristic of the public
service for many years (B. 16 /5 / ’56). Sir
George Reid recognised it early in the
century when he said:
The Public Servant is unique. If you
place one of his kind in solitary confine-
ment, supply him with the means of
existence, desks, pens, ink and paper;
then, when you visit him at the end of six
months, you will find not one public
servant, but ten, all busily writing
memoranda or discussing means of expand-
ing their activities. Natural science knows
of no other species which can multiply
without the co-operation of the female of its
kind.
The tendency to swell has been
unchecked for so long that nothing short
of a major operation can stop it. Until
1935 there was little cause for complaint
about the efficiency of the Common-
wealth public service. Two movements
started about that time: first, senior
officers began to leave the service to
accept more lucrative or more congenial
employment in industry; second, the
organisation of departments became the
plaything of experiment and theory.
Managers or clerks-in-charge became
superintendents, each with his quota of
assistant-superintendents. New positions
with elaborate titles were created and
officers with academic qualifications often
took precedence over those with experi-
ence. This caused dissatisfaction amongst
the staff —on the whole a loyal and
competent body of men —and work
inevitably deteriorated.’
Fortunately, by 1939 the rot had not
gone very far in the P.M.G.’s Department,
which formed a reservoir from which the
new Munitions and Supply Departments
were staffed with highly competent
officers. Most of the leading industrial
chiefs who led the Munitions Department
during the war have testified to their
value. •
The loss of highly trained senior officers
to industry, and the dissatisfaction
caused by so many new positions with
comic-opera titles, have brought the Com-
monwealth Public Service to a low
standard of efficiency. At least three men
are now needed to do the work previously
done by two. But the worst aspect is the
multiplication of “senior” officers whose
numbers have grown out of all propor-
tion to the growth of business.
The remedy won’t be found by passing
the job to a businessman, least of all to
a committee of them. Public administra-
tion is something which requires special
training. A university-course might be an
advantage, but only if regarded as an
elaborate preparation for training in the
school of experience.
What are the obstacles to reform?
Whoever undertakes the job may find
positions which are superfluous, but the
holders of these jobs have a vested
interest in them. Unless they commit a
felony or become mentally or physically
incapable, they cannot be moved to a
lower-paid job. Obviously there will be
a glut of fairly-highly-paid officers. While
this security of tenure presents a tremend-
ous difficulty to the reformer, it is
essential to the maintenance of an efficient
and loyal staff.
The reformer, if one is ever appointed,
will have a man-size job on his hands.—
X. P. S. (W.A.).
Hospitals and Nurses
The shortage of hospital-beds in Vic-
toria is acute, and patients sometimes
have to wait weeks before a bed becomes
available.
To help ease this shortage many new
hospitals are planned, and in some
suburbs the land for them has already
been bought. Women’s auxiliaries are
busy holding card-nights and other
functions to raise money so that building
can start.
This is all most praiseworthy, but one
aspect of the case receives little atten-
tion. The accent is always on the
hospitals, never on the nurses who are
supposed to staff them.
With the 40-hour week more nurses are
required to staff a hospital than ever
before, and they are just not available,
causing whole wards to be closed. This,
added to the fact that more persons apply
for hospital-treatment than in the past,
has brought about the shortage of beds.
When all the new hospitals are built,
where are the nurses coming from?
National service is not the answer —a
conscript nurse would not be a good
one.
To get the number of nurses needed
to reopen wards and staff new hospitals
the job must be made much more attrac-
tive than it is now. Better pay, better
quarters, more amenities and less
dragooning are needed, and a little less of
that “Ah, noble profession!”
Why shouldn’t we our nurses as
well as we do our typists?— Yakipan
(Vic.).
Butter
Farmers complain that butter-prices
are too low and are not covering the cost
of production. Exporters and graders
issue solemn warnings about quality, and
housewives flinch from the retail price
and turn to margarine as a cheap
substitute.
Any dairyman who has a sound herd
with adequate reserves of fodder is in a
very lucrative business. He is grossing
much more than the cost of production
and is farming at a profit. His hours
are long, admittedly, but his position is
different from that of, say, an office-
worker.
The clerk receives a salary only, and
he cannot build up any security for old
age, apart from insurance. The farmer,
on the other hand, can build up an asset
in his farm.
Unfortunately, dairying is not confined
to the richest land. Much of it is in
areas of marginal rainfall and low soil-
fertility, far removed from a butter-
factory. The uncertain rainfall makes
agricultural practices uncertain and
fodder-conservation difficult. This is the
type of dairyman who is struggling to
balance costs and returns. His position
is such that he cannot buy the equip-
ment necessary for fodder-conservation,
and production is at the mercy of the
weather.
Cream is graded into three grades—
choice, first and second. The price differs
“The handcuffs wont be necessary; I’ll go quietly
by one halfpenny per pound of butter
between choice and first-grade, and one
penny between first and second. It takes
more care and attention on the farm to
produce choice-grade cream, and the
dairyman receives very little extra for his
trouble. So long as his cream grades
first-grade he is satisfied.
This outlook is fatal to the industry.
England wants only the best from Aus-
"I never speak to strange men in the street — lei’s duck in here.”
ROMA
RESTAUR/
tralia, and if it can’t get choice-grade
butter here it will get it somewhere else.
What is the solution? Dairying is no
different from any other industry. Unless
unproductive units are weeded out, overall
costs must be high and heavy subsidies
will be needed to keep it alive. Dairying
must be confined to those areas best
suited to it. Many districts now produc-
ing cream at a high cost would be better
off raising beef or sheep, or growing
grain—anything where costs of produc-
tion are lower and distances from markets
not so important.
A wider price - difference between
choice and first-grade cream would be
an incentive for the farmer to send only
choice cream to the factory and the
quality of Australian butter would be
improved accordingly. The butter-
industry badly needs an overhaul. The
heavy subsidies granted to it show how
unhealthy its state must be, and the
competition from margarine is real and
not imaginary. ,
Margarine is a wholesome food, and
no attempt by legislation will drive it off
the market. The best counter dairying
can use is to market butter of the best
possible quality at the lowest possible
price.— Agricola (Q.).
Crossroads for “Labor”
The crucial issue with Labor now is
what W. C. Wentworth described in the
House of Representatives as “the involve-
ment of the Labor party and the Com-
munist party.”
It is evident that Labor is faced with
virtual absorption, and more than half
of its thick-and-thin supporters are corres-
pondingly and properly dismayed.
Unless the party resists —and at the
moment this seems unlikely—it faces
downfall. Its dilemma was summed-up
succinctly in the document “The Future
of Labor,” in which the now-dismissed
N. S. Wales Executive asked (and who
replied?): “Is it to become a party in
permanent Opposition, increasingly
narrow, doctrinaire and moribund, its
once-great body for ever weakened by its
pro-Communist control?”
That indeed is the issue. The purging
from office of those who, for whatever
reasons, were prepared to stand up to
the Communists in the unions and else-
where deprives the party at one blow of
one of the major reasons for its current
existence. Its ancient , policies have
proven unacceptable to most Australians,
and it has given no evidence of a new
policy for the dynamic role Australia
must play in the next half-century.
Obviously, Labor is following the
Communist line —the N.S.W. document
noted “the uncanny way in which events
in the A.L.P. in the last two years have
at every step followed the path laid down
in Communist-party policy.” As D. J.
Killen, of Queensland, pointed out in the
House of Representatives, the Australian
Communist Party has been working for
years to secure a “united front” with the
Labor party. The object has been to
secure “the extrusion from the A.L.P.
of all actively anti-Communist elements
so that the way is clear for ‘merging’
with, i.e. taking over, the A.L.P.”
Nothing said or done can obscure this
imminent danger. If Labor finally suc-
cumbs it is electorally doomed, and its
disappearance as a major political force is
certain. It will, after its virtual absorp-
tion by the Communists, have a nuisance
value in a few unions until more
unionists come to their senses. Its rep-
resentatives in four State Parliaments will
hold office until their next elections, but
no genuine Australians will have the
slightest respect for them.
In the Federal Houses the “Doc.” and
his unhappy band must face their com-
plete lack of prestige and their complete
absence of authority to speak for more
than a small and traitorous minority of
those who voted for them. They will
have no moral right to be regarded as the
Opposition and no claim to considera-
tions as the “alternative Government.
They will be speaking at the dictates of
their Communist masters. The Aus-
tralian people will know it and will pul
the proper price on their heads accord-
ingly.—Mugga Way (A.C.T.).


The White Man’s Burden
As one who has known Fiji intimately
for 25 years, and as publisher of
“Pacific Islands Monthly” and publisher
and part-owner of “The Fiji Times,” I
protest strongly against that farrago of
nonsense, “The White Man’s Burden” (B.
13/6/’56).
Color-distinctions in Fiji exist mostly
in the minds of a small section of
Indians who suffer a perpetual inferiority-
complex. The greater majority of
Europeans, Indians, Fijians, Chinese and
part-Europeans dwell quite harmoniously
together. I have seen nothing such as
your imaginative contributor describes—
and 1 have been living in the midst of
them for months.
I know of no hotel-bar that is closed
to persons of any color, so long as they
have a permit to drink alcohol. There
is a very serious and increasing liquor
problem in Fiji—but it is caused not as
a result of some races being forbidden to
drink, but because they are allowed to
drink.
The permit-system was introduced
because all races insisted that they
should have equality in this respect; and
it is now likely to be withdrawn because
it has been, and is being, so gravely
abused. The majority of Indians can
hold their liquor quite well ; but the
majority of Fijians and Fijian-Europeans
cannot. Drunken disorder and noise are
increasing, especially at weekends.
Of all the Islanders I know —and I
know the lot —the Fijian is outstanding as.
Nature’s gentleman; yet there is some-
thing in the Fijian make-up which reacts
horribly to alcohol —with a few drinks
he becomes a howling and irresponsible
savage. About 25 p.c. of the trained
Fijian schoolteachers produced at Nasinu
College have to be cancelled-out as
teachers because of drunkenness. Per-
sonally, I would keep liquor away from
all Fijians, except in special cases.
Your contributor animadverts on the
Fiji political system, under which the
British Governor is a' complete autocrat,
and the average man has no vote. It was
discovered, by trial-and-error, 20 years
ago, that any measure of self-government,
based on a common roll, is quite imprac-
ticable so long as the present community
set-up remains. The Fijians, although
literate in Fijian, are still mostly ruled
and directed in all everyday affairs by
their village chiefs, and know nothing and
care less about self-government.
The British, under the Deed of Cession,
must protect the Fijians’ land-rights. The
Fijians, numbering 140,000, own the land.
The Indians, numbering 165,000, own
practically no land, and naturally are
land-hungry. What would happen if all
the people were given voting-rights?
Inevitably, the Indians would seize
political power; and, inevitably, they
would try to share land-rights with the
Fijians. That, surely, would lead to a
struggle between Fijians and Indians.
People say: If they can give increasing
self-government to Mauritius (which is so
similar to Fiji), why not Fiji? There is
a fundamental difference. In Mauritius
( which I visited last year) the non-Indians
are a mixture of people from Africa and
Asia —there is no indigenous race with
irrevocable land-rights as in Fiji. Until
the Fijians change their communal* system
of life—and they are changing quickly,
now—the only kind of government
likely to maintain the present peace and
harmony in the colony is the present
system: a wise Governor with unre-
stricted powers, advised by a Legislative
Council that is partly elective, partly
nominative.
Your contributor’s description of the
enslavement of Fijian housegirls at £4
per month is absurd. The cheapest
Fijian woman servant I could find for
four hours’ daily work (no Sundays)
cost £9 per month, and was supplied with
meals.
As publisher of “The Fiji Times” I will
say that the statement that “the Govern-
ment controls local news-stories” is part
of the campaign which a certain class of
irresponsible newspaperman has been
waging for months against Fiji’s well-
known Public Relations Office. As far as
I know, the Fiji P.R.O. has never either
withheld a Government news-story due
for publication, or attempted to influence
its presentation by the local newspaper.
As to the Anzac Day reunion and
ceremonies, the march was led by a
Fijian band ; and I myself saw Fijians
present at the Anzac Day dinner,
although it was intended to be a private
European function. There is a warm and
increasing friendship between Europeans
and Fijians, and any suggestion to the
contrary is mischievous.
Certain Indian agitators, strongly anti-
European, have been working upon a sec-
" You can keep modern art; I like something I can recognise."
tion of the Indian canegrowers, but they
have not achieved much. The great
majority of the Fiji-born and -educated
Indians are worthy people, good citizens,
and not trouble-makers; the relations
between them and the British are quite
good; and they accept the present non-
representative Administration as a neces-
sary stage between the old, communal set-
up and the attainment of a new system
of increasing self-government, based on
greater education and the gradual dis-
appearance of racial barriers.
Keep the political agitators and the
irresponsible, sensation-seeking journ-
alists out of Fiji, and Fiji will do very
well indeed, and will continue to pro-
vide all four races with a secure and
comfortable home.—R. W. Robson
(N.S.W.).
Dr. Coombs
“C.H.C.’s” account of the beginnings
of the London School of Economics (B.
6/6/’56) has no bearing on Dr. Coombs’s
political leanings, if any.
Coombs’s grounding in economics
came not from London, but from E. O. G.
Shann in Perth. Before his appointment
to the Chair in W.A. in 1913 Shann spent
a year in London under Socialists Laski
and Tawney; but he returned to Aus-
tralia an even more vociferous barracker
for free enterprise than when he had left
it.
When Coombs, in his turn, was in Lon-
don (in 1932-33, for research on the Com-
monwealth Bank) (he principal Chairs in
the School of Economics were held by
Hayek and Robins, both strongly anti-
Socialist.
On Coombs’s return with a Ph.D., he,
too, differed from his mentors. After
joining the W.A. University Labor Club,
he took part in a debate in which the
Labor team advocated the nationalisa-
tion of insurance.
The formative years are not those spent
at universities —that Shann’s father held a
good job in a bank and Coombs’s worked
far less remuneratively on the railways
may have some significance ; the politics
of the founders of the London School
of Economics have none.
What can change initial bias is fat or
lean living. For all “C.H.C.” knows,
therefore, Coombs may nowadays be a
pronounced Conservative. —T. G.
Wilsmore (W.A.).
Olympic Games Film
The decision of the Federal Govern-
ment not to make an official film of the
Olympic Games is unfortunate. The
main argument against the production
was the large financial loss incurred by
the official film of the Royal Tour.
Before the Games begin the Govern-
ment should ask why such a loss was
incurred. It certainly wasn’t caused by
the quality of the film, which surpassed
any of the cornmercial productions. Poor
marketing suggests itself as the most likely
cause of the large deficit. Surely better
efforts could be made with an official
film of the Games —with such world-wide
appeal it would be much more saleable.
Anticipated profits or losses, however,
should have little to do with such an
undertaking. Like the Royal Tour, the
Olympic Games are of historical import-
ance to Australia and thdre is a need for
a complete and objective film of them.—
Badiped (N.S.W.).
Hotel Accommodation
, Since the Government will apparently
do little or nothing to make hotel pro-
prietors provide decent accommodation,
why not license suitable boarding-houses
in cities and country towns?
In such places there would be no bar
or beer-garden, but liquor could be served
with meals and in the lounges to guests at
any reasonable hour.
Publicans, faced with such competition,
would soon have to cater for travellers to
hold their bar trade.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Timber
The purchase of 750,000 ft. of sawn
meranti front Singapore by the N.S.W.
Education Department was, according to
the daily press, “a shock to the trade.”
Perhaps it was, but sawn seriah from
Borneo, lauan from the Philippines and
meranti from the F.M.S. have been
imported to Australia by the shipload for
50 years. Inferior to coachwood in
strength and texture, they are brighter
red and available in greater widths. In
log-form they have been for years the
most reliable source of raw material for
the Australian plywood-industry.
According to the press, this latest
importation moved the manager of the
Associated County Sawmillers of N.S.W.
to claim that the wood was “the product
of coolie labor working sixteen hours a
day.”
Things must have changed since many
Australians managed sawmills and
logging-camps in Malaya. Whether the
labor was Javanese, Chinese or Japanese,
the Government labor-officer visited all
camps to see that eight hours only were
worked, that housing, sanitation and
bathing-amenities were good, and that
fresh fish and green vegetables were
available at reasonable prices. Time lost
by rain had to be paid for.
In the marginal brackets, the fallers,
broadaxe-squarers and crosscutters
usually strolled off to work about 8 a.m.
and were home by 4 p.m.
I went straight to Malaya from a big
Australian logging- and sawmill-operation
where sanitary arrangements were crude,
bathing-facilities non-existent and the
tucker rough. In Malaya I found the
living-standards of Chinese timber-
workers of interest. Every man bathed
at noon, rinsed his sweaty working-
denims and hung them up to dry. The
same at 5 p.m., when he dressed for tea
in white cotton and slippers.
His food was cooked by a professional
and served at tables for four. On
holidays he had free transport to town,
where he might be seen in a cafe stoking-
up on bread, butter and jam—all derived
from Australia.
The real competition facing Australian
coachwood sawmillers is the fact that in
Malaya, Borneo and New Guinea there
are thousands of square-miles of forest
surveying regularly at 39,000 ft. (or better)
per acre and within easy distance of
raftable water. — Sevenelms (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 389
Across
I—Good1 —Good round beef and an ancient
tidal kingdom of Brittany with
manuscript convulsions. (9)
s^—Land one on the chin. (5)
B—A8 —A good round by the profligate
French and a bird. (9)
10— -Constellation or Idriess? (5)
11 — Henry the Maori Leftist is bridled.
(8)
12— Blacker in King Island with the
Queen. (6)
14— Settles the French country. (4)
15— Muss do it with air dangers. (10)
17—Central Australian windstorms
after rain are quite passably good.
(3, 2,5)
19—Perceived by touching a hat
material. (4)
23 Don’t stop behaving like a billy-
goat fastener. (6)
24 — American dough boy named
Valentine is against a Finnish
national epic. (8)
26 Fifty stains the course for the
golfing surveyor’s measures. (5)
27 — Frog speed of 24 miles a day,
before the Iberian is deserted
by Queen Elizabeth. (9)
28 — Dukedom. (5)
29 Glaring enormity of an ex-convict
in France. (9)
Down
1 — Dance reports are first into a
pawnbroking establishment where
lemonade is available. (7)
2 Capek play associate in a rustic
way. (7)
3 Looked into the chest, for
instance, but kiss two boys. (1-5)
4 Toss for soaks. (4)
5 Crosby, Sinatra, and the
Councillor love singles. (8)
6 Prismatic crossword-maker frees
a Scottish johnny from some
pest. (7)
7 Scene for many a Grand National
article in standing timber. (7)
9—Honorably discharged emus tire
badly. (8)
13 —Equipment for cobbling pants in
the singular prelude to death.
(4, 4)
16 — Columbus’s affirmative isle of the
Hebrides. (8)
17 — Penpoint lost blood but ate like a
mouse. (7)
18 — Huge iceberg’s mid-Atlantic
victim. (7)
20 — Story upset Idriess with joy. (7)
21— A learner puts the first part of
7-down in the rest of it. (7)
22 — Who says it isn’t a unit of fineness
in silk yarns? (6)
25 —Urchin state poem by Kipling.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 388


iftf&NAL!
CENTURY’S NEW
Home Lighting Battery
with these WONDERFUL
NEW FEATURES
1
CLEAR POLYSTYRENE CONTAINER
You con see the acid level at a glance.
mn
GRAVITY INDICATORS
State of charge visible at all times. No need for
hydrometer.
m
SILVIUM
The magical new additive giving longer plate life and
increased efficiency.
4
GLASS INSULATION—
ensures longer life and GREATER POWER.
GUARANTEED
nn
YEARS
1 iSx
■
. ~ :
I / pi
• ./<iv
> .V. J
C
m
m
CENTURY'S NEW Glass Insulated with SILVIUM
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY. Type CPG 227.
n
Q
J
J
These inbuilt visual ball indicators show clearly
and instantly the state of charge of the battery
at all times.
mn
m
Gtouss ImxS uXcCCcd/
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
eSILVIUM
Made by
CENTURY
STORAGE
BATTERY
CO. LTD.
Alexandria,
N.S.W.
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS, TRUCKS, TRACTORS, EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT, MOTOR CYCLES, RADIO,
HOME LIGHTING ARE DISTRIBUTED BY:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Smith Sons &
Rees Ltd., 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Bradley
Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney. Industrial
Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road,
Lidcombe. Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Common-
wealth Stree.t, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.,
5 I 5 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant & Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons'Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor
Service, 6 I Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd-,
sole concessionaires, 1 5 Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart; 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty.
Ltd., Darwin.
