

,-fCV/'
sister
Sr
m lB
i
' A
IM
r
1
r
li;
/
Qpp*^
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
MIRACLE IN HUNGARY — PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4005
Wednesday, November 14, 1958
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 324: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt .
THE FIRST QUEEN ELIZABETH'S ROOM AT PENSHURST PLACE
PENSHURST PLACE, the home of Lord De L’lsle and Dudley, V.C., stands
in its spacious parkland beside the River Medway, five miles from
Tonbridge in Kent. For all its immense size, its vast rooms, its long galleries
and its innumerable additions since the year 1340, Penshurst remains a home,
unlike many other historic buildings which have become more like museums.
The grey stone and mellow red brick, the irregular outline of the gables,
chimneys and towers of this ancient and historic house, and in the elm trees
in the distance —all these go to make up a picture which can be found nowhere
but in England.-
In the 14th century Penshurst was the property of Sir John de Pulteney,
a wealthy wool-merchant, who was four times lord mayor of London. The
house was given by Edward VI to his chamberlain and chief steward, Sir
William Sydney, in 1552, who was the grandfather of Sir Philip Sidney (1554-
1586), the renowned Elizabethan poet, soldier and courtier. Penshurst passed
to Philip’s brother, Sir Robert Sidney, who became the Earl of Leicester and of
Warwick. Thereafter the house passed from father to son, except for two
generations in the 18th-century, when it passed through the female line; today
it is still the home of the Sidney family. .
One of the most impressive of the State Rooms of Penshurst is the Baron s
Hall, which was built in 1340. It contains the original central open hearth
from which the smoke rose to find its way out through a hole in the root, long
since closed up. From the Baron's Hall a doorway leads to the vaulted crypt,
which is now used as an armoury. Among the many unique exhibits on display
is the Earl of Leicester’s State sword, which must have figured in many
ceremonial occasions during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I.
The Tapestry Room, the Withdrawing Room, the Long Gallery and Queen
Elizabeth’s Room, illustrated here, are all open to visitors at certain times. In
Queen Elizabeth’s Room can be seen some superb examples of William-and-
Mary furniture, including a rare day-bed, covered with the original applique
work made in 1690.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let ua find it for you—fiction, text book,
iessiu?^' 18^ e * c * Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
FOR THE OLYMPIC GAMES
To please a reviewer, as a learned
colleague once remarked, an anthology
such as Australian Signpost (Cheshire)
should contain at least one “discovery”:
something which has not already been
made familiar in “The Bulletin,”
“Coast to Coast” or “Australian
Poetry.”
And that is the reason why, among
the short-stories in this lively Aus-
tralian medley, which the Canberra
Fellowship of Writers has put together
as Literature’s contribution to the
Olympic Games, Ken Collie’s “The
Major Learns” comes as such a pleasant
bit of nonsense.
Rescued from a surprising publica-
tion known as “Australasian Post,” it
is by no means a permanent story, by
no means great. But it is extremely
funny. It is about an English major
in Korea who is utterly lost in the
mazes of Australian slang in which
Private Smith tries to explain how the
nong Kiwi bunged on a blue: —
He nodded agreement. “I watch
the job for him for about an hour
while he shoots through to wog
some combats with a Gook crow.”
“Hold it! ” I ordered as a strangled
sound came from the major. “To
wog is to dispose of to the locals.
‘Combats’ are American cigarettes.
Private Knowles, therefore, had it
in mind to sell some American
cigarettes to a Korean woman.
Right?”
“Right,” said Private Smith. “So
I take over and he blows through.
And he don’t come back. I find out
later that he bumps some cobbers
with grog, gets stuck into the hops
and flakes out.”
“Are you following all this,
sir?” I asked the major.
“Near enough,” he groaned, “near
enough.” _
This is cunningly placed in the
anthology immediately after Sidney J.
Baker’s essay on slang as a guide to
the national character; and at the same
time it makes a pleasant companion-
piece to Phillip Dorter’s equally enter-
taining “A Prevalence of Snakes,” a
piece from World War II about an
R.A.A.F. radar-crew in the outback
who found, except when the inspection-
party arrived, that the most convenient
clothing was a hat, boots and nothing
else. But that is an old friend from
“The Bulletin,” and should, inci-
dentally, be more explicitly bawdy in
two or three places . . . There are times
when censors should be told to go and
bag their heads.
Then, for another discovery, there
is Neilma Sidney’s “The Return,”
apparently here published for the first
time. Once again it is not a great story.
It follows the conventional pattern of
so many sea-stories or war-stories in
dramatising the reactions of the one
weak member of the crew, who, of
course, makes good in the end. But it
is well handled, and it provokes the
realisation that in all the years yachts
have been racing to Hobart and getting
storm-bound on the way back nobody
has ever told us anything about it. It
is, apparently, wet.
Then, on a rather higher level of
artistry, there is Mary D. Pinney’s
“Four Pigs for Moa,” also new, about
the mystic importance of false-teeth in
New Guinea —a rich and dramatic
variation on the standard theme of
how we are civilising the natives.
And, on a higher level still, indeed
as high as one could wish, there is a
new poem by A. D. Hope, “The
Dream,” extraordinarily striking in the
fierce and macabre power of the
conclusion:—
In wonder and dismay
She felt him filled with fire; her
flesh was burned
And from his mouth an unendurable
flame
Scorched her, and she cried out and
shrank away
And leapt up ; for the bed was all
alight—
Unable to speak he rose and left
her there ;
• Unable to meet her eyes that gazed
with such
Anguish and horror, went out into
the night
Burning, burning, burning in his
despair
And kindling hurt and ruin at his
touch.
But, of course, it is not the sole
purpose of anthologies to make dis-
coveries for reviewers; and the reader
is just as likely to be pleased to make
or renew acquaintance with the
plaintive grace of Rosemary Dobson’s
“Detail from an Annunciation by
Crivelli” (also her excellent short-
story “Absent Friends”), with Ronald
McCuaig’s sunlit childhood-memory in
“A Homage to Debussy,” with John
Thompson’s diverting “Married
Quarrel,” Judith Wright’s deeply-
imagined “Flesh,” with Nancy Keesing,
James McAuley, Robert D. Fitz Gerald
or, despite the introduction of the
Muse, Alexander Craig’s rare poem
about the saints who set out from
Ireland to conquer Britain: —
Macbethu, Dubslane, Malinmun
Their names, but no one knew their
boat’s:
Like Argo and the Ark it floats
As long as time’s green tide shall
run.
And among the stories, if on the
whole the standard of the poetry is
very much higher, there are such
capable practitioners as A. C. Headley,
Alan Marshall, Katharine Susannah
Prichard, John Morrison, Mary
Durack, D’Arcy Niland and R. S.
Porteous; with also T. A. G. Hunger-
ford (the general-editor of the book;
the poems were selected by David
Campbell) making a welcome return
in “The Magnolia Tree” to the poetic
style of the first short-stories he con-
tributed to “The Bulletin” during the
war; Nancy Cato with an effective little
tragedy in “The Fish Trap”; Merrick
Long breaking-in a horse; H. H.
Wilson taking an amusing outback
bus-ride in the manner of Brian
James’s “Coming Down From Tiptop”;
James Pollard unexpectedly presenting
a day in the life of a bobtailed goanna
named Ugo; Eleanor Smith with an
excellent strong silent drover; and
David Rowbotham’s dry humor light-
ing up a bodgies’ riight-out in Sydney
—a very useful warning to Olympic
visitors.
Mr. Hungerford might have done
better with his selection. The names
that first come to mind, thinking back
over the past year in Australian short-
stories, are Brian James, whose collec-
tion in “The Bunyip at Barney’s
Elbow” is permanent literature; Ethel
Anderson, with her delightful “At
Parramatta” collection; Hal Porter,
Mena Kashmiri Abdullah. Jack Lusby.
But perhaps the material for the
anthology was collected before some of
the stories by these writers were avail-
able; and, in any case, it seems obvious
that Mr. Hungerford wanted not so
much the best stories as those of
reasonable quality which best suited
the pattern of the book; which is a
map of Australia.
Here, with some of the gaps filled-in
by Peter Bladen writing on the old
goldfields towns, Manning Clark on
popular misconceptions of our history,
Ethel Anderson (too mannered, and
inaccurate about the trigger-flower)
on wildflowers, John Hetherington on
the A.I.F. in Greece, Gavin Long on
the volunteers for the A.1.F., J. E.
Macdonnell on the Navy, Roland
Robinson and W. E. H. Stanner on
the aborigines and Russell Ward on the
ever-burning topic of who really did
write “Waltzing Matilda,” is, along
with much of our best writing, a lavish,
varied and remarkably comprehensive
picture of this continent which all
Olympic visitors should find both
enjoyable and informative . . . though,
if they are seriously interested in our
literature, they should then turn to
H. M. Green’s little survey, newly
released by the Melbourne University
Press, to find out what else they should
read.
So many of the contributions to
“Australian Signpost” are acknow-
ledged to “The Bulletin” that it may
seem rapacious to ask for more; but
it is a fact that nearly all the items
acknowledged to Angus and Robertson
should also have been credited to this
paper. And what Mr. Robert D.
Fitz Gerald and Mr. James McAuley
are going to say about the attributing
to Mr. Fitz Gerald of three poems
written by Mr. McAuley must be left
to the writers concerned. Veiy likely
they will both feel honored.
D.S.
VARIOUS VERSE
THE PALLID-CUCKOO
Alone, the pallid-cuckoo now
Fills his clear bottles in the dew:
Four five six seven —climb with him!—
And eight brings morning to the brim.
Then from green hills, in single file,
My ewes and lambs come down the scale :
Four three two one —the matrons pass
And fill their bellies up with grass.
But in the evening light, the lambs
Forget their hillward-munching dams ;
To cuckoo-pipes their dances start
And fill and overflow the heart.
A.C.T.
DAYID CAMPBELL.
THIS BETWEEN US...
Sleep at Lovo, old chief or warrior,
once my companion days and nights
together,
you in your mound, the long grass over
you,
I lying above the grass beside you.
You did not resent my nearness, neither
by day
my comings and goings and more
impatient waiting—
stamping up and down knee-deep among
weeds,
beating the damp clay into a path at your
head—
nor yet by night my lesser sleep than
yours
where there we lay, the two of us, under
the hills,
Nasorolevu behind us, the great lonely
weight of the night—empty between the
hills—
over us, and Lovo stream at our feet
rattling, bubbling, boiling as it does now
in your deaf ears and my own ears
remembering.
Nameless forgotten chief, I came
so long after you through that gash in
the range,
Tagi-na-sola (meaning the-stranger-
weeps,
met by this pass as enemy) that my
climbing
that sidling track between bared teeth of
boulders —
not fenced as once with spears but
difficult still —-
was to a place which enough years have
changed
from just what ground you walked on
who lie in it now.
There l could reach all things that those
years cling to,
but found nothing your thought might
shake with mine;
and so your blood-splash lifetime, your
eating of men,
your rites and loves . . . were of air only,
lost,
not to be entered into or understood
or lit from within. Yet there is this
between us
that your world which is gone, and my
world going,
are your darkness —the passing of what
was —
and mine blotting tomorrow’s window-
pane —
the passing of what is. Then comes the
stranger.
What mast on the sea? what sail? what
smoke in the sky ?
Shouts from the beach ! Let the young
men go down.
The sun we knew sinks drowning beyond
Y as aw a.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.
A CHILD’S NIGHTMARE
The holy image dwells within,
bequeathed through time from man to
man.
It rages in us while we can
support its fires and yet not burn..
And children feel as the years pass
the char of that insatiate flame
that melts the towering universe
into a symbol and a name.
Earth is a sad yet glittering star.
Bodied in beast and man and bird
she seeks her vision and her fear,
old chaos and the shaping Word;
and we who travel on her path
hold ecstasy and nightmare both.
So you come running from your dreams
where flame and shadow one by one
reveal and darken all that’s known,
to sob and tremble, in my arms.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Swimming the Channel
Sam Rockett’s It’s Cold In the
Channel (Hutchinson) has an
unexpected topicality in its account of
the gigantic Egyptians who, since the
end of World War 11, have been
swimming the Channel in an attempt
to enhance their country’s prestige.
They began under Farouk; con-
tinued under the succeeding regimes;
have at all times been financed by
their Government; and have won many
of the cross-Channel races organised
by the big newspapers:—
Through the years England has
chalked-up 29 successful Channel
swims ; Egypt had 17 up to 1955.
The Egyptians are determined to
surpass their hosts. So far, the 1951
season has been their best. In that
year nine Egyptians were sent to
England, and four of them swam the
Channel—the famous El Reheim,
Mareeh Hassan Hamad, Saied el
Arabi and the smiling happy-go-
lucky Abou Heif. The first three
selected for the great race ranged in
height from 6ft. 3in. to 6ft. 6in., and
the physique of each is superb.
Mr. Rockett says that the Egyptian
teams have not been altogether popular
at Folkestone, except with teenage
girls, because they haggle with shop-
keepers and hotelkeepers. Their
discipline, on the other hand, has
certainly not been lax:—
At first their code of discipline at
Folkestone astonished the English.
It was rigid and relentless. They
were known to confine a swimmer
to his room for 24 hours for speak-
ing to an Englishwoman. They put
a star athlete under house-arrest for
being five minutes late to a meal.
In 1952 a Farouk subject named El
Shamy was sent home for complain-
ing about the meal served him in a
Folkestone restaurant.
A swimmer who arrived in England
out-of-training and too fat was sent
home to Egypt in disgrace; and when
Hassan Abd el Reheim, on his third
successful crossing, established a new
Channel speed-record of lOhr. 50min.
his grateful Government built him a
house costing £12,500. Mr. Rockett
also says that these enormous men eat
enormous meals, particularly of raw
onions at bedtime, and, before a race,
are each served with a whole boiled
chicken, bacon and eggs and dessert.
But the Egyptians are only an'
accidental interest in “It’s Cold In the
Channel,” which, along with Mr.
Rockett’s personal recollections of
wallowing in that long cold bath from
Gris Nez to Dover —he lay down on a
rock and wept —is a popular history of
Channel-swimming from its beginning
in 1875, when Captain Webb took
21 hr. from Dover to Calais, to such
more recent phenomena as the Swim-
ming Grandmother and the unfortunate
Ted May.
Mr. Rockett says that because of the
tidal drift a swimmer often has to do
40 to 50 miles, though the direct
distance is only 21 miles; that swimmers
suffer from seasickness in the rough
seas; that they are stung by jellyfish,
bombarded, though not eaten ; , by tope
(small sharks), bruised by driftwood,
(<Continued on page 35)


A CORDIAL WELCOME FROM
'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING. , -
liithony Hordernsl
mm
TO ALL OLYMPIC VISITORS
V:V,V
mmim
i
m
\
HffliHnnni
TiTrb¥
kK!:!S&?&. 1 ■ 111 ■1 ' j
qniHii
m
: < V :.S
■■aniiii
iMmmm
iSu;:»ks!S!m«&S!SSS
l mm
Enjoy perfect vision ut the 93 with our imported
"Uni
1
inocu ars
from £lB/10/-
Exclusive to us. | These quality binoculars (made expressly for us at this amazing low price) are a must
or one of the greatest events in your lifetime. Jewellery Department , Ground Floor.
“UNI” BINOCULARS, centre focus, coated lens, individual eyepiece, with leather case and straps, size
8 x 30, £lB/10/-, 5/- weekly. “Uni” Binoculars, 7 x 50, £23/10/- or 6/6 weekly.
m
i 4
till
■
j
ii
■
Felca 17-jewel, Swiss lever, water,
dust-proof, chrome steel back £l3/5/-.
Gold filled steel back, £l4/19/6.
Gyma 17-jewel Swiss lever, water-
proof, 18ct. gold, £53/10/-; 9ct,
£39/0/0; Stainless steel, £3O/0/0.
m
%
vs
Boy’s Oris watch, 7-jewel Swiss move-
ment. Chrome with stainless steel
back. Priced from only £5/15/-.
Romer 17-jewel, Swiss lever, w'ater,
dustproof, chrome steel back,
£l7/8/6; Gold filled steel back £2l/6/6
m
X
m
W
&
m
<vl
From left to right:
Lady’s Lavina 17-jewel, Swiss lever,
fitted with black cordette band.
9ct. yellow gold. Price £26/10/-.
Lady’s Lavina 17-jewel, Swiss lever,
with strong link band. Chrome stain-
less steel back front £l5/19/6.
Lady’s Felca 17-jewel, Swiss lever,
chrome steel back, £l4/10/6. Gold
filled steel, £lB/5/6. 9ct„ £l9/10/-.
Girl’s Oris watch, 7- ; ewel Swiss
movement. Chrome with stainless
steel back. Priced from £5/15/-.
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS
ANTHONY HORDERNS 9 POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 G.P.0., SYDNEY. 80951. POSTAGE EXTRA.


the Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 4005
Wednesday, November 14, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
®AD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
South Australia: 64 Gander Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
SUEZ BLOW-UP
MIDDLE EASTERN events moved during the
week with the force and direction of a willy-willy
m the desert. It has been a highlight of the ironical
drama that the stagey villain of the piece, the
stooge of the oppressors of Hungary, appears to
have won considerable world sympathy.
For years now Nasser has been immolating
or sequestrating those enemies, the local ones, on
whom he could lay hands, including his
co-revolutionary Neguib, until he has become a
one-man dictatorship in Egypt with all the bad
habits of a Stalin.
Israel, his next-door neighbor, has a bitter
political history, and its establishment as a State
has cost Britain much in blood and prestige in the
Middle East. But it is a member of the United
Nations, and therefore is a structural part not only
of the Middle East political set-up, but of the rickety
edifice that is now virtually at war with itself, but
of which Egypt is also a member.
In June last year Nasser’s “Voice of the Arabs”
radio, addressing Israel, declared that “we have
sworn an oath—which we will never break—before
Almighty God that we will fight to drive you out,
that we shall fight you across every inch of
Palestine.” In August, 1955, the world was told by
the same voice that “Egypt is preparing millions
of commandos to be used against you”; in October
that “there will be no stability until this small evil
State is stifled”; in April this year Israelis' were
adjured by the “Voice” to “beware of death night
and day, for the fedayeen [commandos] are every-
where.” Nasser himself last October, in an inter-
view, said that “Arab loathing of the Jews is so
great that any talk of peace is idle,” and next day
one of his official journals, “Ahram.” declared that
the only place for that “abortion” Israel was the
sea. Another remarked that “Israel would never
obtain peace unless it vanished from the face of
the earth.”
These quotations are vouched for by the
British Foreign Office.
After the United Nations in 1951 ordered
Egypt to raise the blockade of the canal against
Israeli trade the order was treated with derision.
After Mr. Hammarskjoeld had busybodied through
the Israeli region under United States tutelage and
had established an armistice supervisory commis-
sion under a Canadian commander, there was not
the slightest interruption in Arab aggression.
Israeli borders continued to be breached. The
Arabs of Jordan remained under incitement to
attack. The Syrians loudly threatened, arid
continued to organise for an Arab Federation
headed by Nasser. The movement continued to
surround the Israelis.
Yet when Israel, tired of having its field-
workers shot-up from across the border, its roads
ambushed and mined, its shipping-route through
Suez blocked, its people daily threatened, took the
real measure of its tormentor and decided to test
his strength, it was generally condemned in the
world’s press—save for a few sober journals—as
an aggressor. And when the sore-tried British and
French, the people most interested in the integrity
of the canal system, found themselves faced with
the fact that within a few hours Nasser’s bluff
would be called, his forces dispersed, the canal and
much of Egypt in Israeli hands by force of conquest,
and reacted to make a temporary occupation to
keep the canal out of invading hands and to prevent
a fight-on, the whole world of propaganda and
threat blew-up in their faces.
They were accused by Nasser of brutal aggres-
sion for purposes of conquest, and in this accusa-
tion he was shamefully supported by the British
Labor party. The U.K. was sneered at for
“gunboat” diplomacy by Dr. Evatt, eager to
minimise the bloody events of Hungary.
The United States reaction was the most
peculiar. The London “Times’s” Washington
correspondent described it. He reported (November
1) on the contrast between President Eisenhower’s
“restrained declaration of a policy of non-
involvement in the Middle East crisis” and the
“bitter denunciation and anger vented by most
American commentators,” which “by now” had
fostered the impression that “it is they [U.K. and
France] rather than Israel who resorted to force
of arms.” He wrote:—
Much of this sentiment, it may be suspected,
is indirectly inspired from the State Department,
as if in tacit recognition of the bankruptcy of
American policy in the area; after hearing Mr.
Dulles assert not so long ago that the United
States has “no vital stake” in the Suez Canal, the
British observer is shocked by the self-righteous
indignation, even unbridled licence, with which
charges of “trickery and deceit” or “stark imperi-
alism” are hurled by radio and television—and a
stream of non-sequiturs saddles British policy with
thwarting American victories (so much for the
use of force) at Dien Bien Phu, in Korea and
China and goodness knows where else.
As usual, the U.N. bodies proved in action
to be the instrument of United States opinion, as
alw a ys d° when they are not the instruments
of Communist trickery. U.N.O. has become the
s * a §® on which are demonstrated the rival claims
or the United States and Russia to dictate world
policy.
The usual crush of little nations rushed to
denounce British-French action under the leader-
ship of Washington’s Mr. Lodge, while the faint-
hearts stood off and abstained from voting.
Perhaps some of them were bewildered by the
variation between President Eisenhower’s modera-
tion and the violence of his new personal adviser,
Senator George, who described the outbreak of
the Middle Eastern war as a “deathblow to Nato,”
asserted that Britain and France had virtually
withdrawn from Nato, the protective screen against
Russia, and had encouraged Israel to attack,
a situation which was “one of the meanest
pictures in world affairs we have seen in some
time.”
As a result of U.S. leadership, U.N.O. decided
to order a cease-fire and constitute a police-force
to do what the British and French appear to have
done already, and with light casualties and little
resistance from the blustering Nasser.
The whole situation, in fact, has produced
something of an anticlimax for the critics. Britain
and France have accomplished their objective of
separating the combatants. They have reiterated
their assurances that they acted only in default of
needed action by U.N.0., which has dilly-dallied
for months over the canal situation and aggression
and incitement by Nasser and his Arabs without
producing a solution or even trying to make its
edicts effective. They have from the first insisted
that the occupation of the Canal Zone is temporary,
and that they will hand-over to a United Nations
police-force when it is constituted on such a basis
that it will prove effective. They arranged a cease-
fire in the Canal Zone at the earliest possible
moment—Nasser broke it at the weekend.
The critics, in the face of a fait accompli, will
now have the doubtful pleasure of sitting down
and watching their own solution work out.
There has been no cease-fire in Hungary. The
revolution was broken at the outset; the hangings,
burnings, murders and blastings dictated by an
insatiable vengeance continue. No U.N.O. police-
force is proposed for Hungary; only a committee
of meddling inquiry—if the Russians will let it
in. U.N.O. measures are applied only where those
at the receiving-end are too weak to resist or ignore
them or are stupidly tolerant. If the criminal is big
enough he is treated with wary deference. Size, in
the case of Egypt, is judged apparently by ability
to bellow.
It would perhaps be vain to expect those
of the Gaitskell, Menon and Evatt types to focus
on the real features of the United Nations proceed-
ings—the spectacle in their hallowed U.N. temple
of peace on the East River in New York. It
currently contains among its highest-ranking priest-
hood—the Big Five of the Veto—two giants, one
currently involved in inhuman massacre, the other
bankrupt in foreign policy and exhibited as the
“mixed-up kid” of international action emotionally
opposed to all force that it does not control. A
third giant of the Big Five, Nationalist China, is a
mere shadow dependent for its continued existence
on U.S. military help. The remaining two, Britain
and France, of course, are in the doghouse, with
everybody from Liberia upwards licensed to
condemn them.
They still, however, like Nationalist China,
have the power of veto. They have shown in the
past two weeks that they have what U.N.O. as a
whole has never had the moral courage and power
to do —to act effectively and quickly in emergency
to back their opinions and interests even in the
face of the hysteria of the world at large and of
their own vocal minorities and sensation-mongering
press.
The Eden Government has had the support of
the House of Commons majority throughout. It
has had the backing of a huge and silent public
opinion. It is to be hoped that the United Nations
and the United States will be able to justify their
viewpoints as well six weeks hence as events have
justified the judgment and actions of the United
Kingdom Government. Australia will probably
have reason for satisfaction when issues are deter-
mined that its Government came in so promptly and
clearly in its support of British-French action.
The Host-city Prepares
NOVEMBER in Melbourne is usually regarded as
an eventful month, if only for the interest centred
around the spring racing-carnival and “the Cup.”
But this year, with Melbourne in the grip of “Games
fever,” it can surely be excused if the Cup, along
with the introduction of TV, seemed to have been
relegated to a lesser role as the world’s top-line
amateur athletes and Olympic V.I.P.s (minus
those who object to competing with the Russians
or being guests of Australia) converge on the city.
Already the Games Torch convoy is returning
south on a 5500-mile trek to bring the Olympic
Flame from Cairns to the main Olympic stadium
for the opening ceremony on November 22. And
what has Melbourne itself to show the Olympic
visitors, apart from the Games?
Spring has ushered in a wealth of natural
beauty in the parks and gardens that have had
special attention for just such an occasion as this.
Business-firms and city property-owners have
taken to heart the call of the City Fathers to
spruce-up their premises. Upper Collins-street
particularly presents a pretty sight, with professional
chambers and clubs losing none of their dignity for
being painted in contemporary pastel shades.
Exclusive fashion-salons and espresso coffee-bars
and cafes seem to have sprung-up overnight to
bring an old-world atmosphere and charm in
keeping with this graceful tree-lined thoroughfare.
A most noticeable spring-clean has taken place
in Queen’s Walk, a fashionable little arcade at the
Collins- and Swanston-street intersection, right in
the heart of the city; repainting and removing
nearly a half-century’s grime has revealed a glass
roof and dome of exquisite symmetry. In a corner
of the arcade workmen have transformed the
former City Club Hotel dining-room into an ultra-
modern banking chamber and information-bureau
which will cater specially for the needs of Olympic
visitors.
In the main shopping-centre, Bourke-street,
most of the big department-stores have remodelled
display-windows and entrances, vying with
each other to keep pace with the modem trend. The
old Tivoli Theatre, a landmark in the entertain-
ment-world, reopened on November 1 after a
lightning job of renovating that took less than 13
weeks. Patrons will see here an entirely new
contemporary interior devoid of the pillars that
restricted the view.
Streef-decorations are complete, and it is
natural that the Olympic motif predominates;
each weekend sees thousands of sightseers touring
the city to view them. Flags of participating
countries present a spectacular sight as they flutter
from every upper-window of a five-story store in
Swanston-street, while at the eastern “gateway” to
the city, in Wellington-parade, six 45ft.-high
bedecked steel pylons stand on each side of the
road, forming an arch with the Olympic motif
overhead. Showpiece of the decorations is the
striking 60ft.-high Olympic Torch, seemingly float-
ing in the air above the Flinders-street station
intersection; it can be seen from the four main
approaches to the city. Constructed of tubular
steel, the torch has thousands of silver disks that
twist and glitter in the sunlight; by night it will be
illuminated, and during the Games will show a
2ft.-high gas-flame burning from the top of it . . .
As the Lord Mayor says, “The decorations will
create a dynamic atmosphere.”
Accommodation is heavily booked, and visitors
who are able to stay at some of the larger hotels,
notably Menzies, Scott’s and the Windsor, will find
these have been lavish in their preparation.
Transport and communications officials for
months have been planning and co-ordinating the
roles these vital services will play in the smooth
running of the Games. Behind the scenes at the
Melbourne Cricket Ground, the main stadium,
electricians, radio-technicians, film- and TV-
cameramen are busy putting the final touches to
their preparations for the official opening and the
days that follow. The main stadia are all
completed, and the Olympic village, an elaborately
organised, self-contained unit, boasts of every
conceivable communal amenity, and is regarded as
the ultimate in accommodation for the athletes.
Another attraction inside the city boundary
will be the Royal yacht Britannia moored at North
Wharf, near Spencer-street Bridge. The yacht is
to be the Duke of Edinburgh’s headquarters during
his stay after the official opening of the Games. A
National Arts Festival, being held in conjunction
with the Games, emphasises their cultural side. The
programme includes symphony concerts, opera,
drama, art-shows and massed-bands recitals.
Underlying all these preparations, as they
reach a climax, is the gathering-together ,of men
and women of all nations to foster the Olympic
ideal of a common spirit of sportsmanship that goes
beyond the bounds of race. Whatever the outcome
of the Games in terms of gold-medals won for
Australia, the Sixteenth Olympiad, November, 1956,
Melbourne, will mark a milestone of maturity in
our sporting annals.


THE DEVIL’S PULPIT
“And now, dear Comrades, I will continue with my sermon, ‘The Evil of Aggression.’ ”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cold Wind on Cohill
Even Mr. Cahill’s closest friends would
not deny that New South Wales has had
greater Premiers than the present
incumbent of the office, but his bitterest
political opponents would be hard put
to think of one to approach him in sheer
ability to hang to the leadership by his
eyelashes. He has done this by a peculiar
combination of masterly inactivity,
general subservience to union dictates,
with, on occasions, complete disregard
for public opinion or convenience.
Cahill inherited the Premiership in
most inauspicious circumstances, with a
bare majority in the Assembly—his party
was dependent on the vote of the
unendorsed “Labor” member for North
Sydney—an election not far oft and an
obligation to appoint his predecessor
McGirr to the top job in the Maritime
Services Board. He won the election
easily, although the Doyle-Arthur scandal
broke right on the eve of it. His three-
year term then saw, successively, his
observance of the jobs-for-the-boys
principle by appointing defeated Minister
Finnan chairman of the Hunter District
Water Board ; the Doyle inquiry, with
all its disclosures of laxity and worse at
Parliament House; the resignation and
expulsion from the “Labor” party of
Mines Minister Arthur ; the Compulsory
Unionism Bill, brought in at the behest
of the A.L.P. executive ; the Press Gag ;
mounting deficits and transport losses ;
defiance and surrender Qver quarterly
adjustments; the Big Split; another
election, won by a reduced majority ; a
rebellion by Clive Evatt; increased taxes
and fares.
In “Labor’s” faction-light Cahill has
walked the tightrope like a Blondin. He
has been obedient in turn to an anti-
Grouper executive ; then to the Grouper
executive which replaced it; now to the
Evatt executive which sacked the
Groupers. His caucus includes supporters
of both factions, united only by a fervent
desire to retain their seats and the plums
of office, and accordingly grateful to
Cahill for sparing them the embarrass-
ment of declaring themselves.
Outside Parliament the inhibitions are
not so great, as the emergence of the
Democratic Labor Party shows. Many
of the men who founded the new party
or who have walked out of A.L.P.
branches to join it are old friends or
colleagues of the Premier. They have
apparently been able to bear with him
through most of the twists and turns of
policy expediency has dictated, but have
decided that if he won’t break with the
Doc. they’ll have to break with him.
According to latest reports the Demo-
cratic Labor Party now claims to have
formed 50 branches and enrolled 1500
members; it has nominated a full team
of 15 for the City Council election.
Last week Cahill said of one of its
leaders that he had spent a lot of time
trying to get into Parliament and of
another that he was “an inexperienced
fellow who would not know anything.”
Manning, one of those referred to, has
contested several borderline seats in the
“Labor” interest while Cahill has been
holding the Cook’s River seat, which
could be won by the Abominable Snow-
man provided he wore the A.L.P: label.
Kane, the “inexperienced fellow,” was a
member of the State executive from
which Cahill was pleased to take his
orders last year, and a prominent
organiser in Cahill’s election campaigns.
He should know a lot!
Last Tuesday defection reached the
heart of Cahill’s own electorate, when
18 members walked out of a meeting
after their motion that the branch should
affiliate with the D.L.P. had been defeated
21-18, the Premier and a couple of the
executive turning up to save the day for
the faithful. Miss Vera Roach, secretary
of the branch, and one of the 18, was
reported as saying, “The Premier has
ratted on us. He acted from self-
preservation.”
The lady has known Cahill all her life,
so she can hardly have been surprised.
Presidential Election
President Eisenhower’s winning of the
Presidential election for a second term is
taken by the press as a “personal
triumph.” It is certainly a matter of great
satisfaction to the peoples of the British
Commonwealth, for of all leaders of the
United States he is the most frjendly and
understanding towards us.
He is more moderate in his viewpoint
than the U.S. press and radio, which are
in these days the voices of an unhealthy
American imperialism, and more level-
headed and less inclined to introspection
than his Secretary of State, Mr. Dulles,
who suffers from the effects of a negotiat-
ory upbringing out of tune with the facts
of diplomatic life as they are understood
by Khrushchev and Bulganin and the
other tough guys of the outside world.
In this respect, Mr. Dulles somewhat
resembles the late Franklin Roosevelt.
President Eisenhower’s 'victory was the
more marked because he won no victory
in Congress and, in fact, has the nearly
unique distinction of being a President
with a legislature in which the majorities
of both Houses are against him as to
party and therefore inclined to force him
into a policy of compromise with Demo-
crat thought. It was perhaps the strength
of the opposition which sometimes toned-
down his actions in the last period of
office and which reacted against the
Democrats through earning him border-
line support in the elections just past.
The main anxiety about the period
ahead centres round health, though he
stood up to the campaign very well.
However, from his point of view it was
not a very gruelling fight, and the brunt
was taken off his shoulders in an astonish-
ing way by his young Vice-President,
Richard M. Nixon.
Mr. Nixon, who became Vice-President
in 1953, at 39, was regarded at the begin-
ning of the fight as a handicap. His
earlier rise had been developed through
his chairmanship of the Senate Commit-
tee which investigated the Whittaker
Chambers revelations about the war-time
operations of Communism within and
on the fringes of the Roosevelt regime
and reached their climax with his
insistence on the prosecution of Alger
Hiss, Roosevelt’s curious adviser at
Yalta.
These proceedings earned him the undy-
ing hatred of the Communists, parlor-
Pinks and “liberal” Democrats. But all
their efforts to pin the label of McCarthy-
ism on him failed. In the current
campaign they have done their worst.
At the outset one of their most cogent
arguments against the election of Eisen-
hower was that if anything happened to
him during his term the “horrible” Nixon
would be his automatic successor.
Cartoons of him emerging from sewers
splashing red paint and smearing citizens
were rife. But this approach turned itself
against the inventors of it, and by the
end even the usually hostile press-team
which accompanied him was forced to
admit his tremendous dynamism, his out-
standing ability as an organiser, and
his appeal to the voters.
He was at the end without question
the greatest campaign-organising asset
the Republicans had.
TV in Victoria
“Collins Street” : The star of the open-
ing night of TV in Victoria turned out
to be, of all people, the Prime Minister.
His overseas experience was invaluable
to him. He looked directly into the
camera, never dropped his eyes, and his
speech was brief and bright.
His notable eyebrows, though, looked
suspiciously dark. You might have
guessed that the rather stately young
barrister knocking round the Law Courts
in the ’twenties would have the starch
knocked out of him when he decided
to enter politics, and so he has;
but nobody could have forecast that
by the time he had become an elder
statesman he would be using burnt cork
for public appearances.
Harold Holt, Menzies’s 2 i/c, also came
through convincingly, although he looks
older on TV than in the flesh. Henry
Bolte, the Victorian Premier, disclosed
his inexperience by dropping his eyes
frequently to his notes; but what he
had to say was transparently sincere and
typically warm.
John Cain, the Opposition-leader, was
a disappointment, lecturing the TV
company and sponsors in advance about
their programmes. John Cain’s maturity
is over-evident in almost all his speeches
these days; but where would be Labor
Opposition without his political wisdom?
Some of the acts of the new Tivoli’s
programme really opened the entertain-
ment. The cameras seem immovable, and
only a small section of the stage is visible,
a disappointment in view of the breadth
of spectacle which is always a Tiv.
feature; but the artistry of the star, the
millionairess Julia, was actually empha-
sised by the cameras. They could concen-
trate on her.
A splendid English film of Robin
Hood’s adventures, tip-top for boys and
girls, followed, and then “I’ve Got a
Secret,” in which a panel of four
attempted to guess a subject’s secrets,
most of them flippant, which had already
been disclosed to the viewers. Cartoonist
John Frith was often funny, usually by
design, and, sometimes, when he was
clearly nonplussed.
The programme trailed-off into one of
those B-class movies about a precocious
child which, alas, seem to amuse the
Americans. It is one of the highest-rated
shows in the U.S.A., so there can be no
doubt TV fare will be almost all fairytale
stuff of mass appeal, like commercial
radio.
The actuarial value of a TV-licence in
Melbourne and Sydney is rated at £1
million, so TV companies and sponsors
aren’t likely to take many risks with
cultural nonsense.
Still, the medium’s value in politics and
entertainment was obvious on the open-
ing night. If it were possible to combine
the two, I would plump for a show
starring Bob Menzies and Julia, Together
For the First Time, as they say in the
movie ads.
Posture of Defence
“In the ACT”: In its later phases the
Egyptian crisis moved swiftly, but it can’t
be said we were not long forewarned of
the possibility of crisis. No one was
better informed than the Australian
Prime Minister of the impending dangers
in the Middle East —and, for that matter,
in Central Europe, which he visited
earlier this year on his way to London.
Admittedly our strategic thinking in
recent years has led us to feel that the
Middle East will be outside the Australian
ambit in any war, and that our task
should be to concentrate upon the south-
west Pacific, in association with our Anzus
and Seato allies. In this area there has
appeared to be a lessening of tension and
a corresponding reduction of urgency, all
of which contributed to the situation on
defence revealed recently to the Parlia-
mentary public-accounts committee. Yet
there has never been, in the last seven
years, any era of complacency, and there
have been many periods of considerable
danger.
Over that period nothing has been done
to bring our defence headquarters to
Canberra, in spite of the horrible
examples of delays and confusion during
World War 11, and in the most recent
months of crisis there has been little or
nothing done to put the services or other
departments on a semi-war footing.
It is easy to find excuses. It can be
said that any such actions would have
been misinterpreted abroad, and added
to the tension. It can be argued that the
state of the economy would have been
worsened by a gesture which would have
been bitterly criticised by the Opposition
and many other sections of the com-
munity. Yet on the day when Russia
threatened Britain with the prospect of
World War 111 Australia was proceeding
blissfully along without any hint that
within a few hours or days she might be
plunged into the domestic upheavals and
fearful hazards of world warfare. Parlia-
ment had been sent home for a week, the
Ministry had dispersed for the same
period. The sole concession to any
feeling of urgency was the summoning
of Ministers to Canberra one day earlier
than originally proposed.
The Government may have believed
that Russia might threaten, but
not attack. It has certainly felt
justified in taking the calculated
risk of supporting Britain. But if the
outcome had been war, we would have
been, in the inelegant Americanism of
the last war, “caught with our pants
down.” That is still our position, and
even if there is some relaxation in the
offing we should not be caught that way
again. The world is in a troubled period,
and unless we are always ready to meet
trouble the moment it happens we shall
be easy prey.
Today's Pioneers
“D.”: As the Victorian Housing Com-
mission pushes its little houses farther
into the bush, services have to be
extended, and one of the results affects
all Melbourne households. This is the
increased rates being demanded by the
Board of Works from all ratepayers.
They are, of course, incomparably
better off than many of the unfortunate
persons forced into the commission
houses who have to traverse unmade roads
through the long Melbourne winter and
travel 15 miles and more to and from
work each day in overcrowded public
transport.
Overseas countries and some Aus-
tralian cities —notably Perth, with its
multi-story block of 242 flats, costing
£404,000 —have tackled the housing job
in spectacular fashion, often with satis-
factory economic results. Huge new
blocks of flats in New York, constructed
by public authority, became immediately
self-supporting, and the Oslo city
authority in the last five years has sold
5000 flats to tenants for £2,500,000 under
co-operative schemes.
In recent months travelling Australian
architects have beeh admiring L’Unite
d’Habitation at Marseilles. It is a 17-
story concrete structure, 450 ft. long, 66ft.
wide, 185 ft. tall, housing 1800 people in
337 individual flats on a nine-acre garden
site less than five miles from the centre of
the city. It has a hotel, restaurant,
library, lecture-hall or dance-floor,
kindergarten and almost all shops, and,
on the roof, children’s nursery, gym-
nasium, swimming-pool and even a run-
ning-track.
It is air-conditioned, with facilities for
garbage-disposal, and free hot-water,
and it stands on its own legs, like the new
public-authority flats in New York, with
room beneath for parking, paths and
roads. It cost £2,250,000, about five times
more than the estimate, but that, of
course, is one of the world-wide hazards
of today’s inflation.
A recent returning Melburnian to
be shocked at the city’s sprawl is the
controversial W. Macmahon Ball, Pro-
fessor of Political Science at Melbourne
University:
How many in the last seven years knew
what they were Jetting themselves in for
when they moved to the outskirts? Did
they realise their bodies would be bruised
and battered hanging from a strap? Did
they realise fares would go up two or
tliree times and that they would have no
water or gas, and their streets would be
quagmires? How many would return to the
inner suburbs if new flats with children’s
playgrounds were built? A survey should
be made....
The survey need not be expensive.
Estate-agents in all suburbs have scores
of old clients anxious to buy-back into
familiar streets, where there are footpaths,
the transport is frequent, and utility
services run beneath.
The Doorstep of War
“Ek Dum” : On Guy Fawkes day the world
picture began to assume a sinister aspect,
and the revelations of the size and nature
of the Soviet forces in Hungary
emphasised the more unpleasant features
of the scene. That force was more
appropriate in composition for a descent
on the Rhine and British Channel ports
than for the crushing of a feeble rebellion
in an already battered little country.
But it was obvious that the Kremlin
wished to make an exhibition of its power
and brutality to the nations which stood
between it and the French and West
Germans.
The inflammation was intensified by Comrade
Bulganin’s statement the next day, on the eve
of the celebration of the anniversary of the
October Revolution. That day the convictions
of the Western press and others who had been
hysteric in their proclamation that the Eden
Government had been influenced in its descent
on Suez only by a rapacious colonialism began
to shift towards a theory that it had acted
swiftly and wisely on knowledge of a deep
plot "by Moscow to take over the Middle
East.
By a week later, November 12, the announce-
ment that 250,000 “volunteers” to fight for
Egypt were being enrolled in Red China and
that Moscow’s official press-agency had asserted
that volunteers were also to be permitted to
enrol in Russia made it plain that Moscow
is in the Suez business up to its neck. There
is no such thing as a volunteer in Red Russia
or Red China. The volunteers of North Korea
who supposedly were indignant peasants who
walked from their homes to support their
Korean Communist comrades materialised in a
few weeks as organised divisions, well trained
and armed and backed by artillery divisions and
MIG-15 s, a million strong.
It was obvious that Russia and her satellites
had begun to build the second claw of the
great pincer designed to put a clutch round
South-east Asia. Of this the Indo-China
operations formed one part. The plan was
outlined in The Bulletin nearly a decade ago
and its stages have been plain to see in the
intervening years. 4 Any further move along
this line must bring intervention by the United
States. The British revelation of the build-up
of Russian arms in Egypt and Syria—
£2so,ooo,ooo-worth to the former —spoke for
itself as an evidence of Moscow’s interest in
the area.
The Hungarian rebellion provided a sound
diversion of the attention of the world from the
real centre during the week. ' In Hungary
itself there was nothing new in the technique
used. As in the Baltic countries, the objective
was to do a piece of organisation preliminary
to something bigger, whfle the events in the
Middle East provided a means to shift the
responsibility for the outbreak of hostilities to
other shoulders. .
The Hungarian business reached an advanced
stage on Npvember 6, when, on the eve of the
anniversary of the “October Revolution” which
the whole Communist world celebrates.
Comrade Bulganin issued his threats to Britain
and France to “crush the aggressors ano
“restore peace in the Middle East.” “We hop
in this critical moment you will show wisdom
and draw the necessary conclusions.’ «
added an appeal over the head of the Govern-
ment to “the Labor Party and the trade-unions
and the whole people of Britain” to “stop tn
armed aggression and end the bloodshed. «
even pointed out that Egypt did not na
sufficient means of defence, and asked tn
sinister question what the position of Brirm
and France would be if, having “set out on t
path of unprovoked aggression,” they wp
“attacked by a more powerful State possessi e
(Continued on next pege)


all the means of modern destructive weapons
which could be delivered by rocket techniques.”
A letter similar in tone was sent to M.
Mollet, one more hectoring in tone to Israel,
and one to President Eisenhower, who was
that day being elected by an overwhelming
majority to the Presidency, asking his close
collaboration in the Middle East, through
the use of a joint U.S.-Soviet .force “to take
decisive measures.”
That U.N.O. rejected the Russian view, that
the United States treated it with contempt,
that the British Government again secured
strong support and a vote of confidence by a
large majority in Parliament, that British Labor
was becoming increasingly convinced that there
might be something in the Eden viewpoint after
all did not matter to Russian policy, which was
obscured by the sensationalism of the press
and radio. The Soviet Union objective was to
find some pretext on which Russia could insert
a finger, and if possible a mailed fist, into
the Middle Eastern pie through (a) ousting the
British and French from the zone and leaving
it open to imminent Russian threat of attack;
( b ) manoeuvring into Egypt a dominating Com-
munist force (Red China was very prompt in
offering the 250,000 “volunteers,” and in
Moscow demonstrators were allowed tp besiege
Western Embassies and express a burning long-
ing to go to Cairo to fight for Egyptian
freedom); (c) particularly by insinuating Russia
into the oil-world of Arabia.
This last objective began to be publicised
warily, but with a great punch behind it, early
in the week. Did not, the Communist organs
asked, oil which came out of common earth
belong to all men in common? Was it not
right, therefore, that all the oil of the M.E.
should be transferred to control of the United
Nations and all nations share in its control?
By the end of the week this inviting proposition
had penetrated so far that it was being put
forward enthusiastically by Dr. Evatt. Neither
he. nor any of those who developed the idea
before him mentioned the need to put the
oil of Baku, Rumania, Sinkiang and Russian
Siberia under the control of U.N.O.
However, things were apparently, excellent
from a Communist point of view. The canal
had been thoroughly blocked for months ahead
by Nasser —a severe blow to the economy of the
Western world, one which threatens temporary
paralysis to Europe and puts a huge extra burden
on U.S. and S- American oilwells and world
tankerage. It will possibly put Russia in a
position to make a bargain with the Arabs and
the Persians to take over the Middle Eastern
oil-fields, if their production is disorganised.
Strikes of Arabs, destruction of pipe and pump-
ing facilities through Syria, were started to set
the stage for some such move by making it
impossible for oil to flow for the West.
The main essentials, therefore, were to
disorganise oil traffic; to deny the canal
to 100,000,000 tons of shipping for a year; to
frighten all the Western Allies out of Egypt;
and to lodge a Red Army group of “volunteers
there and begin the process of absorbing Arab
countries into the Communist bloc. Once the
Red Army or the Communist-Woe volunteers
occupy the Middle East to save it they will
never go away. The second claw of their great
strategic pincer round South-east Asia will be
complete, the first being nearly finished m
Indo-China.
Though the threat of Bulganin has been
pushed aside as mere bluff, the defence leaders
of the Western world do not believe it to be
altogether such. They know what Communist
world policy is and always has been —world
revolution. And whatever differences they
have they are—United States, U.K. and
Western Europe —at unity on one intention:
They will fight rather than allow Russia to set
foot on strategic territory beyond its present
borders.
They also, no doubt, have a far more intensive
understanding than the public of the inwardness
of Russian policy in Hungary, which the world's
press little comprehends. Its editors can never
divorce themselves from the delusion that the
Russians see such situations through Western-
type eyes. They don’t.
Terror with them is not something to be
shunned because of its impact on public opinion.
In their own realm no public opinion not
officially dictated is permitted. They do not
ask themselves: “Will this antagonise civilised
opinion, will it shock the long-hairs among
daily-paper editors?” —though some of these
seem to have been more shocked by British
action over Suez than by events in Hungary.
What they do ask is: “Will this put the fear
of hell into th other satellites? Will it advertise
our power to strike, our ferocity and what is
coming to our opponents, to the rank-and-file
on the potential receiving-end round our borders
in India, in Burma, in Israel, in Austria and in
the satellites of Eastern Europe squirming in
our grasp?” Like their system of justice, their
basic diplomacy is based on an appeal to fear,
on force and threat and bullying. Dislike by the
West does not worry them. And truth doesn’t
either.
Today, threat and terrorism are once more
supreme. And, as ever, the press is ready to
play to the limit. It doesn’t matter whether
it is known to be an enemy manoeuvre. The
essential fact is that charges against the U.K.
and blood-chilling threats from Moscow are
“news.”
POLITICAL POINTS
How up-to-date does TV purport to
be? One station last week wanted the
Prime Minister to do a recording on
Tuesday on the Egyptian crisis, to be
telecast two days later. News moves a lot
faster than that these days, and canned
commentaries are staler than yesterday s
newspaper. Never has this been more
apparent than in the Suez crisis. The
great thing about TV could be an up-to-
the-minute discussion of events on the
wing. It’s done overseas.
• •
“Labor” intends to fight the Went-
worth by-election on “whether Austialia
wants the Eden-Menzies foreign policy.”
They’d better not ask visiting British
Labor M.P. Emanuel Shin well to speak.
He’s all for it.
• •
Australian political leaders could learn
much from Adlai Stevenson’s graceful
acceptance of his defeat in the U.S.
In feathered garb and daubed with clay
The Kuku Kukus swooped on Lae ;
The ornaments thrust through tlieir noses
Were made of bones torn from their
foeses —
And yet their raid brought no rebuke ;
They’d only come to dook the Duke.
0 0
Parliament was to have been prorogued,
so that the first session next year could be
opened by the Governor-General, but
the Prime Minister announced last week
that there would be an adjournment until
a date and time to be fixed, so that
members could be summoned to Can-
berra at short call if major policy
decisions on international developments
made it desirable.
• 0
Menzies didn’t mince his words in
emphasising at his press conference on
Friday the falsity of Evatt’s sugges-
tion that there was division of opinion in
the Australian Ministry on the Egyptian
crisis. He said he had discussed his state-
ment of the previous week with Ministers
before writing it, and had read it to them
when it was written. “It was unani-
mously approved without alteration of a
word.” The P.M. also disposed of the
suggestion that he had learned of the
British-French ultimatum from Casey,
then in London, before it was delivered.
He said the ultimatum was delivered on
October 30. The first message from Casey
had arrived on November 1.
• •
Eisenhower’s winning margin—4s7
Electoral College /votes to 74—was a
record for a Republican President, but
F. D. Roosevelt bettered it twice for the
Democrats. In 1932 he defeated Herbert
Hoover 472 to 59 and in 1936 he beat
Alfred Landon 523 to 8. Wendell Willkie
four years later lifted the Republican
score to 82 and in 1944 Dewey, Roose-
velt’s fourth opponent, notched 99.
• •
Some of the nations which have been
most vocal in condemning the use of
force in Egypt don’t seem too successful
in keeping the peace at home. Or is the
burning of consulates just a way of
showing popular approval of peaceful
measures?
• •
For the first time in many, many
months the Communist “Tribune” found
itself forced to disagree with Dr. Evatt.
The occasion, of course, was his state-
ment on Hungary. Many people disap-
proved the same utterance because it was
too mild and seemed to excuse the
Russian action on the grounds that it
had been encouraged by British-French
intervention in Suez. The “Tribune’s”
complaint is rather different. It sadly
regrets that the Doc. “has lent himself
to the argument that the Soviet Union
has violated international law by its
actions in Hungary.”
• 0
Evatt has no longer any excuse for
misunderstanding the situation in
Hungary. “Tribune,” in a statement from
the central secretariat of the Australian
Communist Party, makes the whole thing
crystal-clear. Imperialists have “sought
to use subversion and Fascist violence
to try to restore the rule of the capitalists
and landlords, and are still searching for
a pretext for open intervention.”
The so-called “revolutionaries” in
Hungary are part of the same imperialist
forces who are at this moment waging war
against the colonial people... .And the
Hungarian people, led by the Communist
Party, which are resisting the counter-
revolution, are part of the same forces
which are resisting imperialist aggression in
Egypt and throughout the colonial world.
Those imperialists and landlords
must’ve been strong. The Hungarian
people, led by the Communists, had to
borrow 10 Soviet armored divisions to
quell them.
• 0
After 11 years the last Australian occu-
pation troops are leaving Japan, but a
rearguard party of six officers will remain
until January. At the peak there were
9400 Australians in Japan ; their with-
drawal was being planned when the
Korean war broke out.
DEAFENING
Presidential campaign. In a message to
Eisenhower he said: —•
You have won not only the election, but
also an expression of the great confidence
of the American people. I send you my
warm congratulations. Tonight we are
not Republicans and Democrats, but
Americans. We appreciate the grave
difficulties your Administration faces, and,
as Americans, join in wishing you all success
in the years that lie ahead.
Eisenhower modestly claimed that his win
was not a personal affair, but was a
tribute to the principles and ideals for
which he had worked. Mebbe, but the
more likely explanation is simply that the
Yanks still like Ike.
• •
Jack Lang’s “Century” refers to the
Democratic “Labor” Party as the Dead
Letter Party. Neat, but rather risky. The
Lang “Labor” Party, now called the
Australian Labor Party (Anti-Com-
munist), doesn’t consider itself dead,
although it hasn’t had a member in the
State House since 1950 or in Canberra
since 1949 ; Keon’s party has virtually
pinched its name, and its official organ
consistently supports Evatt, Ward and
the A.L.P. left wing.
• •
Menzies had a full programme
scheduled for this week, with the Federal
council of the Liberal party meeting in
Canberra on Monday and Tuesday, and
with the Premiers’ brawl scheduled for
yesterday and today. With the Premiers
he knows what to expect, but the Libs,
usually show little disposition to criticise.
There were hints last week, however, that
some nasty things might be said on aid
to denominational schools and on the vast
expansion of the public service.
• •
For years the “Labor” party has been
trying to make local-government a forum
for party politics. As far as the Sydney
City Council is concerned they’ve sue-
ceeded, thanks to proportional-represen-
tation. For the December 1 election six
full teams will be in the field —
Democratic “Labor,” Lang “Labor,
Liberals, Civic Reform and Communists.
There’ll also be a handful of Independ-
ents scrambling for the crumbs.
• •
Government authorities in N. S. Wales
seem to have discarded all ethics in the
matter of mulcting (or milking) the
public. The Sydney Water Board has
taken full advantage of the Valuer-
General’s new valuations, even though
in some cases they lead to householders
being billed for more than double last
year’s water-rates. The Sydney County
Council was granted an increase in
electricity charges from October 1. It
immediately made it retrospective to the
date of the customers’ last account. Of
course there was a good precedent for
the grab. Cahill’s M.P.s had already
back-dated their increased salaries by
several months.
• •
Guy Fawkes’s Day saw Tom Playford
begin his 19th year as Premier of South
Australia, with nothing less than a Gun-
powder Plot likely to stop his attaining
his majority in the job.
• •
“Chipper”: The Melbourne Sunday
got an airing in the Queensland industrial
court after a suggestion had been made
that Queensland “died” at the weekend.
Jumping to the defence of Melbourne, an
advocate, P. J. O’Shea (from Melbourne),
told ’Sonah Brown that Melbourne
was “All right on a Sunday and not as
bad as Sydney, where, if you want a meal
on Sunday, you have to go to Manly.”
• •
Japan and Indonesia are still arguing
how much Nippon should pay for war
damage to Indonesia. The matter was
first raised in 1951 but not much head-
way was made because, in the words of
the Jap Embassy in Canberra, “the
Indonesian side insisted on the basis of a
huge figure of damages, 17,300-million
American dollars.” In 1953 a salvage
agreement was signed covering 6jr-million
dollars as interim reparations, but there is
still wide discrepancy in estimates of the
total amount due and argument over the
method of payment. Japan has an-
nounced its desire to settle the matter
speedily, adding, a little naively, that there
exists wide possibility of entering into
mutually beneficial co-operation, political
and economic, with Indonesia.
• •
“Volunteers” for Egypt are reported to
be coming forward in Moscow and
Peking in large numbers. If the lists
could be checked it would probably be
found that from generals down to
privates they held just the right
number in each category to form an
efficient combat-force.
• •
The split between the Anglo-French
and American viewpoints over Suez set
the local Reds a poser, but they rose to
the occasion. America, it appears, was
angry because it was left out of the deal
made by Britain and France with “a
corrupt Israeli Government.” Thus,
American imperialism, angry at being
excluded from the intrigue, exposed it to the
world. Now, in the United Nations, the
U.S. State Department is trying to find a
base for its own intervention.
Which shows that so long as you look
at things through Moscow spectacles you
can make sense out of anything.
• •
“Sir Edward Boyle, a junior Minister in the
Eden Government, has resigned because of
disagreement with the armed action in Egypt.”
By party-criticism directed
At Eden Boyle became infected.
Strong Mid-East action so got Ed.
Inflamed, it brought things to a head.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A/TY wife dreamt the winner of the Cup ;
and, waking in the middle of the night,
thought she’d never remember the name
in the morning. So she got up and
wrote it down on the message-pad by the
telephone. Then she woke in the morn-
ing ; realised she’d only dreamt she got
up, and had forgotten the horse. —
“S.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Joanne”: Was in a Newcastle (N.S.W.)
taxi When the short-wave radio an-
nounced that after he had dropped me
the driver was to buy two pieces of
cooked fish and 25.-worth of chips and
take them to an address on The Hill. I
murmured that that was hardly taxi-
driving. “Huh, that’s nothin’,” he said.
“That’s often on, deliverin’ fish-’n’-chips
on a Friday.”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Siosal”: Dealing with a man who
survived after going over the Gap, the
A.B.C. began the height at 200 ft. On
the same day the Sydney “Mirror”
reduced the figure to 100 ft. and the
“Sun” jacked it up to 300. Then came
the Sunday papers: “Truth” stuck to its
daily’s figure of 100, but the “Sun-
Herald” reduced its stable-mate’s 300 to
270 (yes, precisely 270), and the “Sunday
Telegraph” dropped the drop to a mere
80ft. So that’s the long and short of it.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Maitri”: The chap next door reckons
he’s going to write to Sydney’s Royal
Philharmonic Society and suggest it
might be an idea to put on a performance
of Handel’s “Israel in Egypt.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pevin”: Overheard: “How did you
vote?” “Just started at the top and went
right through to the end.” “Me, too. What
number did you get to?” “Sixteen. Did
you?” “Yes, I got sixteen. I’m so glad.
I was afraid I might have gone wrong.”
* ❖
“Curate’s Egg”: That unscripted fall
in suburban theatricals (B. 17/10/’56)
reminds me of a Brisbane Alsatian
amateur which interrupted the tete-a-tete
of the hero and heroine. It dragged the
actress, who had it on leash, from centre-
stage towards a palm standing in a pot
in the left-foreground, and there obeyed,
more thoroughly than actors are enjoined
to do, the call of Nature. Next night a
replacement repeated the performance.
On the third night the stage-manager had
removed the palm-stand, and for the rest
of the season the hero and heroine got
through with their tete-a-tete in peace.
*!♦ *•>
“Yakipan”: The young son of my
garage-proprietor friend can’t understand
why his schoolteacher failed him for
paraphrasing the sentence “The fiat went
forth” as “The car left the garage.”
❖ ♦>
“Old Cynic”: You could be forgiven
for thinking the ultra-modern house
being built across the road is a fowl-pen
—after all, it’s why that chicken crossed
the road.
❖ *> ❖
“Quo Vadis”: At the children’s fancy-
dress ball she was a pretty picture, with
her long curly black ringlets, big brown
eyes, snowy white dress and starched
bonnet. “First prize in the six-year-old
section,” said the announcer; “an Irish
colleen.” And the hall rang with
applause as the little coal-black abo. girl
tripped confidently up to the stage to
receive her award.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout”: At Vienna’s glittering,
renovated Opera House (the very fire-
curtain is gold-leafed) I was probably the
only Australian among the hundreds
queueing for standing-room for “The
Magic Flute.” My hitch-hiking wardrobe
was limited, but I had put on a tie, and
my jeans and burgundy wind-cheater had
passed unmentioned the scrutiny of a
dozen chocolate - and - gold - uniformed
attendants and the be-pistolled police-
man. I had just paid my six schillings
and turned towards the auditorium when
an official, obviously superior, as he was
not in uniform, barred my way, his face
registering horror, repeating, in a stunned
way: “Not in the Opera, not in the
Opera! ” I dragged my German up to
the occasion, detailed the thousands of
miles I’d travelled to see their opera—
and why had no one told me during my
two hours in the queue? That set him
back. He gave an order; I was escorted
up innumerable flights of marble stairs to
what presumably were the staff-quarters ;
a jacket was brought out, put on me,
buttoned-up. Perhaps their “Schoen!
Schoen!” was a little sarcastic, as it was
several sizes too large. No matter, I
went down to my standing-place in a
recess at the back of the stalls, where no
“Excuse me, madam, Would you mind removing your hood?"
one could see me, anyway; honor had
been satisfied and another international
incident averted by diplomacy.
* ❖ *
“Saaedi”: “Sissy! Mummer’s boy!”
the red-headed boy yelled after the kid he
was following across the vacant allot-
ment. The leading lad turned and with
a few workmanlike punches soon had the
jeerer bawling for mercy. But when I
came up with them they were chatting
amiably. “It’s a good chance to do
Butch over,” said the redhead; “he’s up
in Kelly’s paddock.” “Thanks, Blue,”
said the other; “I’ll go now.” Blue
started after him, but I called him back.
“I don’t get it,” I said. “Gee, Mister, this
is going to be funny; poor old Butch
thinks he can fight.” “I still don’t get it,”
I said. “Well, it’s like this, Mister: Bill’s
a champeen fighter, see, but he thinks a
lot of his Mum and she don’t like him
fighting. But sometimes she goes away
to the country, see?” “Ah, so you think
she’s away in the country now.” He
gingerly touched a bruise on his cheek.
“Must be,” he said, and darted off.
*l* ♦:« *
“Clem”: Publishers’ advertising in Vic-
toria is being given a facial with an ad.
heralding an apparently serious historical
tome just off the presses: “Sizzling
History!—3s2 provocative pages for
305.”
“G.M.”: Appropriately enough,
“Ardoyne,” nobody seeming to know
where he is, Hobart’s criminal court (B.
31/10/’56), is not the scene of the
“sacked professor” case; but the
Supreme Court, in the city’s main admini-
stration block in Macquarie-street, next
to Franklin-square. It has been here-
abouts over 100 years, Judge Pedder
having arrived from England with the
charter of the court in 1824.
♦+♦ ♦♦♦
“Geep”: C.5.1.R.0. have reviewed the
keeping-qualities in Antarctica of canned
foods. Only cherries remained unaffected
after a year’s storage, though apricots,
pears and tomato-juice were still accept-
able. But peas, cauliflower, potatoes,
carrots, tomatoes and asparagus were
washouts. It seems that the indomitable
snowmen will be spared that ghastly glut
of stringy asparagus that once descended
on some Army messes in N.G. They may
return home with a permanent nausea at
the thought of cherries, but will at least
retain their appreciation of the delicate
flavor of asparagus.
♦> ♦♦♦
“Biridja”: Mention of the Free Educa-
tion Act of N.S.W. which came into
force in October, 1906, set a couple of us
talking about the calling of the roll, when
we answered “Present Miss, paid!”
“Present Miss, Family!” or “Present
Miss.” The first answer might see the
pupil go to the table and hand over three-
pence, the second showed that one from
a family' of four or more handed in a
shilling, and the third total of a family in
which threepences were scarce and the
pupil free. The regulations demanded
that fees collected on the Monday for
that week and any following were to be
refunded. We got good money’s-worth
from the school, for we had the use of
readers which our fingers stained until
we were taught to hold them correctly.
Our slates, also Government property,
were cleaned by spittle, wiped-off with
our sleeves until we were introduced to
penny-tins holding a piece of sponge,
which soon became rusty and as dirty as
our slates. We tested our teeth upon the
tin pencil-holders, for without pressure
the slate-pencil was liable to disappear.
We had to buy our own copy-books.
Some of us regret the day they were
dropped—when I would excuse my bad
writing I could say that I write as did my
favorite teacher. When I think of the
hours that man spent with us and with
pupil-teachers I wonder that I am able
to understand my own writing.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ardoyne”: For the first time in 24
years Victoria’s Supreme Court has met
with a bench of five judges. Normally,
the court comprises three judges ; but a
court so constituted has the power to
refer a point of law to a bench of five.
The Big Five have to decide whether any-
one who unintentionally commits bigamy
should have to prove his lack of intent,
or whether the onus is on the Crown to
prove guilty intent. Apart from the
case in question, the court’s ruling should
prove of great interest to all bigamists
who have acted in good faith.
❖ * *
“F.A.M.”: Reading Miles Franklin’s
Joseph Furphy at this somewhat, late
date, was interested to learn that the
immortal Joe had a friendly way with
children, and it was his habit to refer
to them, girls included, as “these chaps.”
The same habit has passed down in my
own family from the days of my grand-
mother. It’s surprising what a kick small
girls get out of being addressed by some
male as “you chaps.” Presumably it’s the
same pleasure their elder sisters feel in
being able to vote.
❖ ❖ ❖
IX/ - HEN he was put away in the cooler
™ for housebreaking his car, an old
model in good condition, stayed in the
street where he left it upon his arrest.
Near-by residents found it a nuisance and
pushed it into a side-street. Its day-to-day
immobility aroused the curiosity of the
children; presently it became a play-
ground where young hot-rod enthusiasts
wrenched at the controls and scrambled
over it at will. Mysteriously it began
to disintegrate; engine-parts, radiator,
generator—were spirited away. His term
of imprisonment up, and recommended
to leave the city and not to approach
within fifty miles of it for the next two
years, the transgressor set out in search
of his car, and found it, minus everything
that could be removed by any means
whatever, resting on its axles in the
gutter. Not even a wheel remained.—
“Aeolus.”
THE HUMAN RACE
“N. S. Wales ‘Leaving’ examinations began
on Melbourne Cup Day.”
The “Leaving” students saddled-up,
With their connections’ wishes warm,
And started with the Melbourne Cup,
Well-trained, and in the topmost Form.
Though tipsters prophesy like gods
On horses’ hopes, no Sibyl looks
Into the schools, or quotes the odds
On starters, there, to beat the Books.
Four minutes win the Cup; but then
Exams, will not be won or lost—
No, not for months, or until when
My Cup-horse lumbers past the post.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AT an informal get-together in Sydney,
Vatican organist Germani said that
once when he was in the U.S.A. he was
invited to give a TV-talk on organ-play-
ing. Later, at the studio and facing the
camera, the woman compere introduced
Germani and asked him to tell the
millions of viewers why he preferred X’s
spaghetti. “But,” Germani shrugged,
“I had to disappoint her. I told her I
did not like spaghetti.”—“Dorian.”
♦> ♦+♦ ❖
“Ladimac”: Out doing the weekend
shopping I noticed two small boys play-
ing in a disused tennis-court. They had
built a fort with bricks and stones, and
were using empty beer-bottles as guns ;
one was sticking-up the other : “Come
on, Nasser, you’re covered!” Seems as
though this Christmas will replace the
coonskin cap with a black homburg.
❖ ❖ ❖
“MacHoots”7 A shop in lower George-
street, Sydney, has a most charming
window-display of mice running out of a
cardboard cottage, across a green lawn,
up a conveyor-belt and round through the
cottage again. Alas, it is advertising a
rat-bait.
*x* +;♦
“Rimutuka”: Japanese cigarette-
lighters are on sale in Melbourne. Under-
neath the Olympic rings the inscription
reads, “Melbolune Olimpird.”
❖ ❖ +♦♦
“Stuie”: From my war-souvenir
drawer, which holds nothing more deadly
than a packet of dog-biscuits and a tin
each of m.-and-v. ration and tropical
butterfat-spread, I extracted a sealed tin
of Comforts Fund tobacco for a fishing
trip. I was sounding-off about the
fragrantly-fresh state of the weed, which
I had held since 1945, when old Jack drew
attention to the Army pack, holding
most of his fishinjg-gear, which had been
issued to him in 1915 and illegally
retained by him on discharge in 1919.
The pack was faded to a very dirty off-
white but showed no other signs of wear
after nearly a half-century. Not to be
outdone, Charlie, the owner of the launch,
went forrard and returned with his 1917-
issue British warm which, in parts
other than those which are salt-caked,
retains most of the original nap.
❖ *X* *X*
“Narumee”: She yelled frantically over
the fence at her child, who was pedalling
his tricycle in the path of a truck. For-
tunately the truck had good brakes. Did
she call Junior in to the spacious garden
and lambaste him for being on the road?
No, she said: “Look where you’re going
another time!” To me she grinned and
remarked: “When we lived in the flats, I
used to long for a garden where it’d be
safe for the kids to play. But now we’ve
got one Dad says cats and dogs do enough
harm without the kids wrecking his
flower-beds as well.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Doric”: A shop in Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, has a new version: “Walk
through—everybody asked to buy.”
i *x*
“Brick E.”: Afraid I can’t join in the
rousing cheers for the ingenuity of those
Shiny-seats in disposing of the bother-
some files (B. 17 /10 / ’56). When an
embryo bricklayer in the Commonwealth
Reconstruction Training Scheme was
handicapped in his course because pro-
formas entitling him to textbooks were
held up in the Repat. Department I
finally allowed the lad time off to go in to
the office. Yes, they knew all about his
case —his teacher had been pestering them
for a month or more —but until they
got official notification from Section
So-and-so, they didn’t know he had
started a course. Determined to iron
everything out if it meant tramping all
over Sydney the trainee asked where he
would find Section So-and-so. Three
floors down. I suppose those fellows
saw nothing unusual in all this.
❖ *> ❖
“C. Coral”: Drop in at Thursday
Island, “Q. Ree” (B. 10/10/’56); they
have gummed envelopes packed to
prevent them sticking-down in humid
climates. A piece of greaseproof paper is
placed under the flap. Airmail envelopes
thus treated are on sale in T.I. shops, and
in the neighboring islands the sophisti-
cated native keeps a packet on the house-
hold shelf of these “coats . belong
letter.”
❖ ❖
“Teacher’s Pet”: The biology-master’s
red pencil slashed savagely across the
exam.-paper: “Nowadays they know
everything about babies and nothing at
all about the flowers and the bees!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: If Victoria’s weekend
police-force drives haven’t had much
effect on the road-toll statistics, nobody
can say that the police aren’t zealous.
A constable, driving in plain clothes off-
duty near Cheltenham, gave chase to a
speeding car, and was heading-off the
offender when two plainclothes officers
in a blue police-car stopped him for
speeding. The constable’s hasty explana-
tions were interrupted by a Police
Divisional van whose two occupants
demanded to know why the blue police-
"I'll give it a go, Humphrey , darling , but only on a three-year contract.”
car was exceeding the speed-limits. While
the five policemen verified each other
the car which started all the speeding—
which, for all they knew, may have had
a load of plainclothes-men on board —
disappeared over the horizon.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eurimburra”: Reports that Rank
agents had flown to the Kimberleys to
find “a gorge and a saltbush plain” for
“Burning both ends at the candle again!”
the filming of Robbery Under Arms
help to explain why Australians go to
films of Australian classics to, snicker.
Why couldn’t the greater part of the
story be shot in the Goulburn-
Abercrombie-Braidwood-Berrima area,
where most of Boldrewood’s action took
place? As for a gorge, why go further
than the great gorge of the Shoalhaven
in the same area —1800 ft. deep, two miles
wide, and with enough grassy pockets to
stage a dozen “hideout” scenes?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Buskin”: We’ve a “gunsmith” who
hardly knows a stock from a barrel; a
“watchmaker” who has to send away his
repairs, let alone “making watches,” and
a “bootmaker” whose ability is limited
to sole-’n’-’eels. Our weekly news-sheet
doesn’t run to a book-reviewer who
reviews books he’s never seen, but that’s
just because culture hasn’t hit us yet.
“Travel”: A young mother who, with
reservations, has the same lithe figure as
her teenage schoolboy son found him
hopeless at helping her put up the hem
of the frock, and bribed him with picture-
money to model it, standing on the
kitchen-table. She left the room for more
pins and came back to find that he had
put two bread-rolls under his jumper;
he explained quite seriously that the hem
wouldn’t be level otherwise. Mum
matched his seriousness for a while, but
collapsed with tears streaming down her
face when she found him sticking her
surplus pins straight into his “chest.”
❖
“Loki”: As a follower of classified ads.
in a hunt, so far fruitless, for a reliable
secondhand car, I can appreciate that the
frequently-used description “original car
probably means that no parts have had
to be replaced, or else that there has been
only one owner. But can anyone tell me
what one prominent dealer means when
he describes a vehicle as a “very original
car”? To me it conjures-up a bomb with
a square steering-wheel and a differential
in the hood.
•ijt &
“Quo Vadis”: The wealthy pastoralist
was renowned for his meanness, but the
new housemaid at the country _ pub
lavished kind attention on him during a
week’s illness. When well, he promised,
she would be rewarded. She was. With
a dozen mixed-fruit that Scrooge had
scrounged from the dining-room table
one by one for 12 days, in a paper-bag
salvaged from the kitchen.
*l* *X* *X*
“Karma”: Many of our new migrants
hadn’t seen a fuel-stove before corning
to Australia, wherefore the newly-arrived
widow next-door was in distress; her
kitchen was full of smoke, she said, and
she couldn’t get the smoke to go up the
chimney. Thinking the damper of the
stove was closed, I investigated. She
had lit the fire in the oven.
* ❖ ❖
“D.A.”: Whatever reference-work was
consulted by the participants in that
radio-quiz (B. ?4/10/’56) to try to prove
the contention that Dick Whittington was
only three times Lord Mayor of London
it couldn’t have been Chambers s
Encyclopaedia. In the 1955 edition of
Chambers’s the entry begins:
Whittington, Richard (died 1423),
mayor of London, 1397-98, 1406-07, 1419-
20, third son of Sir William Whittington of
Pauntley, Gloucestershire
and finishes with the direction to the
reader, for further information, to con-
sult J. Tait in his Dictionary of National
Biography (1900). Tait points out that:
When Adam Bamme, the Mayor of 1397,
died during his term of office, the King
appointed (Bth June) Whittington to fill his
place until the next election... .In October
he was elected Mayor for the ensuing
year, thus holding office continuously for a
year and five months.. . .Whittington was
Mayor for the second time (third if his
short term of office in 1397 he counted),
in 1406-07 and for the last time in 1419-20.
Thus Chambers’s covers the periods of
Whittington’s mayoralty accurately in
the dates it gives, and Tait goes into the
details. Both set most people right in not
using the term “Lord Mayor” anywhere.
Whittington was Mayor of London.
Chambers’s Encyclopaedia ; incidentally, is
now in its second post-war edition, and,
dedicated by permission to Queen
Elizabeth 11, is a most comprehensive
and authoritative encyclopaedia, produced
wholly in the British Isles, and a credit to
truly British scholarship.
AN ODD PARTNERSHIP
“Beauty in modernist art must sometimes be
searched for. Through his ability to portray
the abstract through his subconscious the sur-
realist painter may claim some affinity between
his art and the occult sciences.” —Radio speaker.
A loveliness beyond compare
Some see in woman’s face or hair;
The form divine ; the flower in bloom ;
The dreaming landscape ; ocean’s swell;
The grace of fu!l’-sailed caravel.
For other media, though, there’s room.
Beauty, it has been said, exists
In the beholder’s eye; the twists
Of art-form mode affect ii not.
Ergo, with this you must agree ;
Someone sublimity must see
In this work by Cadwallader Clott.
Note the eviscerated cat
Beside an ox-blood cricket-bat
Girded by corsets Prussian-blue;
With poplars growing upside-down ;
The cleft skull of a grinning clown
From which protrudes a smoking flue;
A bearded infant with one leg
Knitting barbed-wire upon a keg,
And pink snakes leaping from a pit;
The sewer-pipes dotted here and there
To lend it all a wholesome air.
Majestic, yet so exquisite.
Think not, though, that Cadwallader Clott
His priceless inspiration got
From where the lesser painters get
Their owri. Nor that he’s slightly cracked
Because he deals in the abstract.
To his subconscious he’s in debt.
With full affinity in control
Over the occult and his soul,
To splash his paint he would begin.
The spirit-world had nourished his
Imagination — well, that is,
After he’d had a binge on gin.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
In a few weeks, after the Olympic
Games, Joseph John Booth will retire as
Archbishop of Melbourne, although he
may remain as administrator for a few
months until the canny Anglican Board
of Electors decides on his successor. He
arrived in Melbourne, a Methodist York-
shireman, in 1910, when he was in his
early 20’s. Had a call to the church and
he wished to be ordained, but the
Methodists at Footscray, where he
worked at his "first job in Australia in a
munitions-factory, turned him down.
He struggled through comparatively
elementary studies for a few years, and
he was befriended by the famous Canon
Bagley, then at Footscray and a notable
Freemason, and when the Anglicans did
accept him was very much an Aussie.
In fact, he has been described as the first
Australian Archbishop of Melbourne ; at
least, he was the first the Anglicans did
not go outside Australia to appoint.
Chaplain to the Bth Bn. in France, he
won the Military Cross (after a second
recommendation for it) and was senior
chaplain in War 11. When Archbishop
Head was killed in a motor-accident
Bishop Booth, his coadjutor, returned to
become the Anglican leader. In his 14
years as Archbishop he never coined a
phrase that was smarmy, smart or
sarcastic, a tribute to his - Yorkshire
gumption and Australian friendliness.
• •
Air-Vice-Marshal Allan Leslie Walters,
C. 8., C.8.E., A.F.C., looks, talks and
walks like a man of action ; the brisk,
cheerful sort. He was one of the most
senior R.A.A.F. officers to fly fighters
operationally in the Pacific and, in fact,
AIR-VICE-MARSHAL WALTERS
is still flying ’em; he pops in and out of
stations either in Meteor or Vampire
jets. Before he took over com-
mand of Home Command (formerly
Eastern Area) R.A.A.F. last year,
Air-Vice-Marshal Walters was head
of the Australian Joint Service Staff
in Washington. Born in Melbourne, he
trained at Duntroon, was seconded to the
R.A.A.F. as an Army officer in 1928,
and swapped khaki for blue in 1930. At
the beginning of War II he was Staff
Officer, War Training, at R.A.A.F. Head-
quarters, went to Malaya as C.O. of No.
1 Squadron, commanded Laverton station,
then joined MacArthur’s staff and became
Director of Operations, Allied Air Forces,
South-west Pacific. Commanded No. 72
Wing in Dutch New Guinea until early
in 1944, when he went south to become
Director of Air Staff Policy and Plans.
After seven months at headquarters he
went north again to become A.O.C.
Northern Command, as an Air-Commo-
dore, and stayed there until the end of
the war, when he went back to his former
job as Director of A.S.P.P. Went to
London for the 1947 Imperial Defence
College course, came back to take over
command of Southern Area, then back to
London as A.O.C. R.A.A.F. Overseas
Headquarters; then the post at
Washington.
• ••
Sighted in Perth on his return from a
seven-month inspection of school-archi-
tecture in Britain and Western Europe,
Martyn Arnold Buntine, Geelong’s Head.
A Melbourne M.A. (final honors in
Philosophy ; football Blue) - and Edin-
burgh Ph.D. (thesis, adult education;
general athletics Blue) he’s been head-
master at the Victorian school for 11
years, before that was assistant to Dr.
James Drever at Edinburgh’s Department
of Psychology, and was on the staff at
George Heriot’s School, Edinburgh, and
Caulfield Grammar School and Scotch
College, Melbourne ; headmaster of
Camberwell Grammar School (Vic.), then
Hale School, Perth. A chap called Hitler
interrupting his headmastering, he sailed
with the 2/28th Bn., acquired three pips
(he was an officer in the old militia), was
in Tobruk and such Middle Eastern
places, and for a time commanded the
11th Bn. in W.A. and Darwin. He
reckons Britain is ahead of other places
he visited in school-architecture ; special
interest in the subject is the planning of
a new 400-boy prep, school for Geelong.
Off-duty he plays golf and tennis and
sails.
• •
“Uramao”: New Zealander Keith
Waite has eight drawings in the latest
edition of “The Pick of Punch.” He
worked on the “Otago Daily Times,”
joined Kemsley Newspapers in London
in 1951, and is now with the London
“Daily Sketch” and a regular “Punch”
contributor.
• •
“Fitz”: Australian literature has many
champions, but lew as enthusiastic as Walter
Stone, who, after a quarter of a century of
clerical jobs, has bought the Wentworth Press,
a Sydney commercial printery. An accountant
and taxation-consultant by profession, Stone has
always been interested in fine printing, and
a few years ago established his own private
press, the Talkana Press, in the backyard of
his Cremorne (Sydney) home. From that press
he issued, among other books, P. R.
Stephensen’s Kookaburras and Satyrs, being
some recollections of the Fanfrolico Press,
London, with which Stephensen was associated
with Jack Lindsay; A Place to Get Lost In, a
collection of poems by the late Robert Gross-
land ; and some correspondence between George
Bernard Shaw and J. C. Williamson.
One of Stone’s main interests is Australian
bibliographies. With George Mackaness he was
responsible for The Books of The Bulletin, an
Angus and Robertson publication, and he has
published bibliographies of the writings of John
Shaw Neilson, Roy Bridges, Joseph Furphy and
Henry Lawson—the last two the result of his
own research. A foundation-member of the
Book Collectors’ Society of Australia, Stone
edits and produces that society’s little monthly,
“Biblionews,” which has been running for more
than 10 years and is a mine of information for
those interested in Australian book-collecting.
A vigorous and provocative lecturer on Aus-
tralian literary, subjects, an able organiser of
literary functions, a member of the Chair of
Australian Literature Fund Committee (Uni-
versity of Sydney), he does a tremendous
amount of delving behind the scenes, as
indicated by the frequency with which his name
has appeared in lists of people whose help
has been acknowledged by various authors.
Walter Stone has an . extensive library of Aus-
tralian books, reinforced with a valuable collec-
tion of newspaper-clippings. Like his friend
Jack Moir, of the Melbourne Bread and
Cheese Club, Stone allows any genuine scholar
interested in Australian literature use of his
library. It is not an uncommon sight to see
working together among his books an American
university professor and a Sydney high-school
student. His friends predict that his commercial
printing will not be confined to dodgers,
letterheads and wedding-invitations.
• •
Now in Melbourne as Consul for the
Federal Republic of Germany, after
spending two years in a similar post in
Perth, Dr. Wildried Sarrazin is the first
man to be appointed to the West German
consular-service in Australia. He’s 46,
and was captured at Stalingrad in 1943.
• •
Hal Porter, who has beep given a
Commonwealth grant to freshen-up
Australian literature, has brightened
The Bulletin story-pages recently
with such things as “At the Galahad” (he
has written a Japanese novel, to be called
A Handful of Pennies, 15 short stories,
and completed a book of poetry, The
Hexagon, soon to be published by Angus
and Robertson). He was born at Albert
Park, Melbourne, in 1917. Began teaching
at State schools and continued at Queen’s
and Prince Alfred, Adelaide, Knox,
Sydney, Hutchens, Hobart, and at
Ballarat. Saved the oldest theatre in Aus-
tralia from being torn down and for a
while directed it, as the National Theatre,
Hobart, and was for nine months
manager of a Melbourne hotel. Has a
game-leg from having been smashed-up
by a car on the day war was declared in
1939. Spent two years in Japan with the
rank of captain they needed an
educated officer, he says teaching
children of Australian and British officers
at the Nijimura school at Kure. Acted
with the Gregan McMahon company, had
his first Bulletin story published in 1937,
and, the following year, won the Sydney
“Herald’s” sesqui-centenary competition
with his short story “And, from the
Downs ?”
His conversation is a rich blend of
Officers’ Mess, Hotel Lobby, and Back-
stage. One minute one is "old dear ’ or,
to one’s horror, “dear” —much as a dis-
gruntled private says “sir” —the next you
are “Man” —genuine bodgie locution.
He is a connoisseur of Australian accents
and district dialects. Visiting his people
at Bairnsdale (Vic.), where he did most
of his growing-up, he took over the
library there, and has raised it from 120
to 3000 members; and when he con-
cludes the travails and travels of his
Commonwealth grant, which have taken
him over much of Australia, it is to
Bairnsdale’s 10,000 books that he will
return. He says, as a librarian, that
demand for E. O. Schlunke’s Man in the
Silo has proved that short stories can
make a saleable book.
• •
Another few decades, at least, of
prosperous life seem ahead of the
Temperance and General with the election
to its board of a third-generation Stewart,
Harold D., now on his way home from
U.S. He runs McCarron Bird Pty., Ltd.,
a Melbourne printing house, with the
modest demeanor characteristic of the
Stewarts, and until recently was financial
secretary of Melbourne Legacy—no
sinecure, since the man in office has to
raise £60,000 a year. He had to retire
because of war-caused ill-health. The
elder Stewarts were teetotallers of the
purest waters ; Harold cheerfully married
the daughter of Norman Carson, chair-
man of Carlton and United Breweries.
• •
“Copy Boy Once”: Par. on J. E. Webb,
who was editor of Perth “Sunday Times”
before coming to Sydney to join The
Bulletin in • 1920, reminds me of
“Bullant” Mclntyre, who ran the
Southern Cross (W.A.) “Times”: Webb
often reprinted “Bullant’s” comments on
men and affairs in the “Sunday Times.”
Mclntyre disapproved of the local mem-
ber (Attorney-General in one Ministry),
and referred to him as “Hoodlum
Hudsome” ; which was near enough to
his real name. Then, among the notes
of comings and goings usually found in
local papers, he printed the following
paragraph: —•
The mem her for the district, Hoodlum
Hudsome, arrived at Southern Cross last
night—sober.
An apology was demanded, and
published:
We said in our last issue that the member
for the district, Mr. Hoodlum Hudsome,
arrived in Southern Cross —sober. As he
has lodged formal legal objection to our
statement, readers can form their own
conclusions as to his condition on arrival
here.
• •
Berkeley Cook, sketched by Such at
Cairns (Q.), milks taipans. Not every-
one’s idea of fun, of course, but Berkeley
isn’t the sort of bloke who would care for
suburban amusements; and there’s a
serious purpose—production of lifesaving
anti-venine. He runs Koomball Park, on
the eastern side of Trinity Bay, where
he has a wonderful menagerie of North
Queensland fauna.
Four years before the mast in wind-
jammers prepared him for a seafaring
career that was far from humdrum. .
Manager of the Sydney State Theatre
for a time, he spent five years of War II
with the R.A.A.F. in small craft around
New Guinea, and at the finish was skipper
of the 250-ton supply-ship, Cora. After
the war he bought a lugger in Moresby
BERKELEY COOK
and sailed it to Sydney with a crew of
three and no power ; but the North was in
him. He sold the lugger and bought the
Sirius, first Halvorsen-built boat in
Sydney, and sailed back to Cairns in 1949
to take up six acres at Brown Bay. With
his current 40-footer he takes supplies to
Yarrabah Mission and the doctor once a
week. If you find a taipan in your wood-
heap, and don’t particularly want it as
a pet, take it to Berkeley—he’ll buy it,
milk it, and put it in his zoo.
A deceptively quiet scholar with a slow,
quiet voice like a mincing-machine in
low gear, Lyle Blair was invited to call
in at The Bulletin because he is hoping
to publish some Australian poetry —Rose-
mary Dobson’s, for one —at the Michigan
State University Press ; and, insisting that
he was “thoroughly uninteresting,” kept
saying the most surprising things. Such
as, that he has six children; that he got
his job of director of the Press “because
I had a row with my mother-in-law in
Canada” ; that, with unlimited funds and
complete freedom of action, he has “the
best publishing job in the world”; and
that his press has published, along with
R. G. Casey’s Friends and Neighbors,
LYLE BLAIR
several novels by “one of the three great
living novelists” —R. K. Narayan, an
Indian who is not a Red Indian but lives
in India and writes in English. A fifth-
generation Australian who was once
general-manager of the British Pub-
lishers’ Guild, he is a “permanent resident
alien” in the U.S., and his parents live
at Killara, N. S. Wales. Henry Lawson,
whose stories he rates very highly, is also
on his list of intended publications.
• •
“P.C.M.”: I query “D.’s” statement
(B. 31/10/’56) that Alec Fraser was a
“senior Government officer when he left
the civil service and became g.-m. of
the Great Southern Co-op. Co.” He
went from secretary of Korumburra
Butter Factory to Gippsland and
Northern Co.-op. in 1922, and was still'
there when I met him in 1929. In 1931
he went to the Great Southern Co-op.,
and in between he had a trip to London
on butter-sales business —so if he was in
Government employ it was very brief.
Alec spent a great part of his life in the
co-operative dairy-factory game, and I
don’t know of a better school for
“political guile”— to quote “D.” I sat
opposite Alec Fraser on the Butter Wages
Board and I take my hat off to him as
a tactician.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Fremantle at 75, Alfred Georrt Psarse,
managing-director of a footwear-manufacturing
firm, and local-government stalwart. On the
North Fremantle Council for many years, in
leisure hours he was a racing-pigeon fancier.
In Adelaide, at 47, A. R. Lonergan, former
S.A. and N.S.W. Sheffield Shield cricketer. In
31 Shield games he made 2397 runs, av. 42.8,
with a highest score of 159. For S.A. against
Victoria in 1933-34 he made 115 and 100 (out of
198) in the same match, and he also hit a
century for S.A. against the South Africans in
1932-33. Unlucky never to have been picked
for a Test. As administrator, he was assistant-
secretary of S.A. Cricket Association from 1946
to 1954.
In Sydney, at 67, T. H. Upton, former
president of the Metropolitan Water Board; he
retired last year after a record term of 20 years.
From 1932 to 1935 he was assistant-commis-
sioner for main roads in N.S.W. In World War
I he was twice wounded, three times men-
tioned in dispatches; in 1919 he received 0.8. E.
Also a leading member of the Congregational
Church.
In Adelaide, at 61, Oscar Klemich, founder
and managing-director of National Paper
Industries, Ltd. President since 1940 of the
Paper Bag Manufacturers’ Association of S.A.
At Fremantle, at 78, Old Digger George
William Aberle. Former secretary of the Spear-
wood Fruitgrowers and Market Gardeners
Association and member of the Fremantle and
Melville Horticultural Societies, he was also
past-president, captain-instructor, life-member
and adjudicator of the St. Paul’s Gymnasium
Club. His war-service was with the 10th Light
Horse.
In Melbourne, E. W. Daddo, one of the
original officers of the Commonwealth’s audit
staff. He was for a time Commonweaitn
Chief Auditor in London, and was also
Commonwealth Chief Auditor for Victoria, tie
retired in 1932.
At Geraldton (W.A.), at 68, James Joseph
Farrell, foundation-member of the Australia
Meat Board, War II Controller of Meat
Supplies, and chairman of the Broome breez-
ing Works. Manager of the Wyndham Mea
Works 1932-54, he was responsible for introduc-
ing a number of improvements in the bui
handling of meat.


"• WISH TO ENTER, THESE
in the Swimming events/'
"what'Ll WE ENTER-FOOT- #
YEUKINIMG OR MORSERACtNGf
V THORk THE NAME> HAMMER* „
THROWING'S THE specialty/
"ANV NYMPH-CHASING
events?"
''yOU SOYS BETtER, GET SOME SHORTS -
THEY WONT LET *fOp INTWAT WftY/ "
"0.K,,PAl - HAVE. A SPELL/ "
OTHER ARRIVALS


ABORIGINALITIES
TF people in the Alice were disappointed
-*• because they were shown only a
hackneyed shot of their town in the film
“A Town Like Alice,” the lads of Ten-
nant Creek got a good laugh at the end
of the sad story. The English lass, seek-
ing her Australian soldier after the war,
got Eddie Connellan to fly her out to
Willstown —somewhere east of Alice, we
keep the lure clear of the ship’s wake. A
strike is signalled by the automatic raising
of a bucket of sand, whereupon all hands
take time off to haul in the catch.
* * * *
“Arbie”: Dingoes can be trained (B.
17 /10/’56). In 1923 when the Armour
family were running a large dairyfarm
along the Calliope River (Q.) one of the
boys found a nest of pups in a log. All
were killed except one with a small white
patch on him. Patch was brought up with
the other dogs for mustering cows and
bringing the calves to the yards. He would
were told! When she alighted on the
bull-dust and asked to be taken to the
town, the lone car-driver said he couldn’t
understand anyone wanting to go there as
most people wanted to leave the place.
Then they turned into the town by Geo.
Williams’ Pioneer Store, past Handlebar’s
pub and the very open-air theatre in
which we were sitting. “Cow of a place,
ain’t it?” said the driver, and the boys of
Tennant Creek let up a roar that would
have lifted the roof, if there’d been one.
—“Val.”
* * * *
“Maitri”: Sometimes I wonder how
flowers come by their names. Lilac, helio-
trope, roses, pinks, don’t require much
imagination—probably they were called
after their original hues —but Sweet Wil-
liam? Was it so christened in compensa-
tion for Stinking Roger? Forget-me-nots
intrigued me for quite a bit, but I think
I’ve solved that one. They grow in pro-
fusion in a corner of our garden and it
pays to keep away from them when
they’ve done flowering. If you don’t, you
spend a lot of time picking the seeds from
your socks and pants. You’re unlikely to
forget them in a hurry.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: The great flocks of
crested-pigeons—known to most of us as
topknots—that were a feature of N.S.W.
slopes and plains 50 years ago are no
longer seen, but this bird still looks the
likeliest candidate for survival among our
Cdumb idee group. And that for a very
peculiar reason. Early records suggest
that topknots were originally rather trust-
ing fowl. Shot in thousands for the pot
by settlers, they became very wary, shun-
ning human habitation and taking imme-
diate flight whenever the enemy appeared.
During more recent years topknots in
increasing numbers have made the odd
discovery that the way to get on with
their chief persecutor is to place them-
selves under his protection. Today these
pigeons may frequently be seen nesting in
the gardens and grounds of country
homes, picking up wheat that has been
spilt round railway-yards, and even feed-
ing with domestic chooks. Under such
conditions these courageous pioneers of
peaceful co-existence are rarely molested,
save by New Australians who will, no
doubt, soon learn better.
* * * *
“Ailsey”: Seamen on B.H.P. iron-ore
ships running between Newcastle and
Yampi Sound (W.A.) have adopted new
means of following an old sport. They
catch game-fish from the decks while
cruising at 12 knots. A special rig used
to catch the fish includes a simple system
of bamboo-booms, pulleys and counter-
weights, the invention of the skipper of
the Iron Derby (Captain S. Hodson). At
first the fishermen found the vessel’s 1
speed caused the lure to skip across the
waves instead of settling into the water.
To overcome this, a 31b. bullet-shaped
steel lure, with a revolving bush in the
centre, was devised. The lure carried the
hook 3ft. under water, providing an
attraction for the fish. Tne bamboo-rods
“Hey! D’you want to start a bush fire?”
follow the two kangaroo-dogs when hunt-
ing and dash in for the kill when a wild-
dog was bailed up. He would invariably
grab the opponent’s front leg and break
it. Of friendly disposition with humans,
he lived to a fair age, as good a worker
as the farm had.
* * * #
“Heresone”: I could fault Porteous’s
“Brigalow” only in respect of a minor
chronological blue. Bob took the job on
Yakaparni as soon as he had gone
through his deferred pay (say, 1920), and
no more than three years appear to have
elapsed before the cactoblastis is getting
stuck into the prickly-pear. There was no
cacto. about in 1926. It was liberated in
either ’27 or ’2B.
* Ht * *
“A.J.8.”: Then there was the New Aus-
tralian who wanted to know if kangaroo-
paws tasted like beef or mutton.
* * * *
“M’Lou”: Still another of our rare
native fauna, the Mitchell hopping-
mouse, long thought extinct, has turned-
up again, this time in the Victorian Wim-
mera. A Nypo man, Alex Campbell,
rescued a couple of these small, long-
furred creatures —they measure 12in.
from nose to brushy tail-tip, but two-
thirds of this length is tail —which were
marooned on an islet by the rising waters
of Lake Albacutya. A Fisheries and
Game Department expert identified them.
Colored rather like a possum, they get
their name because of their ability to
cover eight to lOin. at a hop.
* * ¥ *
“Bass”: Do only “very few” birds build
mud-nests (B. 12/9/’56)? In my neck
of the Westralian woods there’s a mud-
lark building in the pine-tree—a big/cup-
shaped mud-structure fastened somehow
to a horizontal branch ; a pair of swallows
have slapped up an abode under the
veranda and have made it pretty cosy with
a lining of feathers and grass ; not many
miles away there’s a cave where
I know I’ll be able to find the
bottle-shaped nests of a colony
of fairy-martins; and I’m sure
the tree-martins will nest again
in the hollow spouts of the old
redgum—not strictly a mud-nest,
perhaps, but where the openings
are too big they’ll reduce them
with mud. The pardalotes, or
diamond-birds (two species, one
in my south-west locality and
another further inland), will
nest in riverbanks, in soil cling-
ing to the roots of fallen trees
or in the ground itself. Since the
nest itself is a comfortable
structure made of grass and
bark placed in a chamber at the
end of the tunnel, they’re not
strictly mud-builders; but that objec-
tion can’t be raised in the case
of the rainbow-birds which have
tunnelled in on the mud-flats and will lay
the eggs on a little loose soil left in the
nesting-chamber; or of the sacred-king-
fisher, which occasionally nests in a river-
bank, too.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The Torres Straits Islanders
have a legend to account for the existence
of mosquitoes in that torrid archipelago.
The story goes that in the “early morning
time,” a woman so continually nagged
her husband that the poor fellow one
evening packed his canoe with provisions
and paddled for the sunset. The deserted
and vengeful spouse, knowing that the
decamping seeker-after-peace would have
to skirt the base of a cliff in his flight,
took up a vantage-point on top of the
eminence and tipped down on him a
basketful of the barbs and other stinging
portions of all the irritant plants she
had industriously gathered. At this stage
some tutelary deity of henpecked hus-
bands changed these into winged insects
which swooped back en masse on the
malicious female, sucked her body dry of
blood, and then proceeded to bring forth
as progeny the hordes of voracious
mosquitoes that are the bane of the Straits
today.
* * * *
“Jarrah Jack”: “Best set o’ crockery I
ever had,” said Hogan, “was made be a
travellin’ dentist about thirty years back.
Dunno what he made ’em of, but they
were tough right enough. I useter take
mine out and chock the wagon with
them when 1 was spelling the bullocks
on a long hill, an’ they had a hole drilled
in ’em so 1 could hang ’em on my watch-
chain when I went on a bender!”
* * * *
117 AS “Bass’s” storm off W.A.’s nor’-
west coast really a cyclone (B.
31 /10/’56)? Four years afloat on the
China Sea, and 30 years in Burma —both
areas subject to annual typhoons and
cyclones—sufficed to convince me that
the true “cyclonic storm” is governed by
what we used to call the Law of Storms.
The usual cyclonic-storm commences in
the vicinity of 18 degrees N. and S. of
the Equator. In the north it revolves anti-
clockwise, moves to west and north and
recurves after striking the coast, to end
somewhere in the sea of Japan or the Loo
Choo islands. In the Bay of Bengal it
travels W. and N. till, striking the Indian
coast in the vicinity of Madras, it
recurves and ends on the Burma coast
between Rangoon and Chittagong. South
of the Equator the cyclone revolves clock-
wise—travels from the vicinity of the
islands of the Coral Sea and strikes the
coast in the neighborhood of Rockhamp-
ton, whence it recurves and ends some-
where about 25deg. S. in the direction of
Norfolk Island. The area of Mauritius is
in the cyclone-zone, and the storms move
the same way, but are not so frequent as
elsewhere. How far we are entitled to
call storms elsewhere “cyclonic” storms
may be doubtful as few of them outside
the well-defined areas follow any kind of
rule ; to the seaman they are just gales
of wind he meets everywhere. The hurri-
cane, like the “southerly buster' anu
many other storms local in various parts
of the world, are something different and
subject to no law, although many, like
the “buster,” follow a general direction.—
“Shellback.”
CAMP SHIFT
How many towns under how many
similar hills,
such as this particular town and its
particular
hump of the landscape’s humorless nature,
yawn in the day’s attendant joys and ills,
move through them, sidle past them,
pause to scan them feature by fading
feature ;
yawn in the night’s hopeful fearful visions,
call them up, assemble and disperse them,
as though they were the rehearsal of
things threatened and promised, and not
the decisions
long passed in the petty sessions
of their dead years living in hate and love.
How many strangers come to terms with
this town
and this hill, among a hundred similar
rejections and acceptances
of themselves as they are or seem —the
ephemeral frown
and smile in the street, the gross and the
bland
acknowledgments, the social pauper’s
pittances—
have balked, as I do now, at the
summing-up
of seven seasons here beneath the hill,
at the town’s edge, in a canvas tent;
having been someone like myself to a little
group
known among themselves as “locals,”
leaving some yet inquisitive, others
content.
Leaving them, leaving them to themselves
and to each other,
having brought little, taken less, enacted
the familiar stranger become a name,
an appearance, an awkward gait, an alien
brother —
almost, here and there, a lover —
but never the one who stayed, and staying
became
a part of the town’s people, a piece of its
being
(and this remarked without rancor,
without relief,
preserved in sane objective art).
It is enough to have heard of without
seeing
the several truly gracious humans,
to have climbed the hill in company, to
depart.
N.S.W.
BRUCE BEAVER.


fmfau'd.,:
The connoisseur's word
for smooth, mellow
perfection
VIM/.'l
wM
Wtik
m
•i >
lit Hi!
Ul
mi
U^SPITA
TOLLEY’S
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEARS
rST.47.It
caravanning costs
less on
r~r.
iulti bonu
BENZOL
blends
SUPER
c
SUPER
mmrnmt
STANDARD
The BENZOL in BP
SUPER and C.O.R gives
these fine motor spirits
the multi-bonus advan-
tages of—
1. BETTER STARTING
2. BETTER
PERFORMANCE
3. BETTER MILEAGE
—all of which add up to
4. MAXIMUM MOTOR-
ING ECONOMY
Enjoy a further bonus with ENERGOL—the oiliest oil
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Limited 6/C445D
T WAS a callow city youth when first
introduced to the mysteries of party-
line phones which, in the old days, pro-
vided the country housewife with her
main daily diversion. Astonished by the
number of calls that seemed to come the
Browns’ way, and by the fact that no
conversation ever seemed to follow the
lifting of the ear-piece, I eventually
broached old Bill on the subject. He
grinned sheepishly and nodded in the
direction of Mrs. B. “We don’t get a daily
paper round these parts,” he said, “and
the womenfolk have to get a bit of news
to keep ’em happy.” Realising I might
be on dangerous ground, I didn’t pursue
the matter further. Eventually I gathered
by tactful deduction that the elaborate
system of “one long, two short”; “two
short, one long”; and so forth, wasn’t
really necessary anyway.—“Sarj.”
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Saw a greenhead limping
slowly back to his nest viciously attacked
by an associate. The wounded warrior
resisted so vigorously that his assailant
called off the fight. Not for long, how-
ever. Accompanied by several assistants
the would-be murderer returned, and
the whole crowd polished off their unfor-
tunate brother in quick style. Then,
apparently in triumph, they carried the
corpse back to camp.
* * * *
“Simon”: Old clocks (B. 17/10/’56)?
I know of a grandfather-clock, taller than
a tall man, made in London in 1840.
A Yorkshire man, foreman of a shop in
which I worked, learned to tell the time
on it. He came to Australia as a lad and
when his parents died the clock was
shipped out to him. When he died in
1930 the clock became erratic —the new
winder, to relieve the strain of winding,
used to ease the .weights on their way up
and this caused slipping on the sprocket.
The last I heard of the clock one of the
grandchildren had it and it was still keep-
ing in step with a healthy beat.
* * * *
“Irving”: The result of the official
survey of northern Australian pearlshell-
beds (B. 31/10/’56) should be interesting
in regard to the amount and dimensions
of the shell found. Before the Pacific
“I’d like you to meet two chaps from the new Delta-wing Squadron."
War all the shell taken was subject to
inspection by the Fisheries Department,
and this examination guarded against the
taking of undersized or “chicken” shell.
“Chicken” shell is, from a processing
angle, commercially more valuable than
the larger and other shell, but its taking
would, of course, denude the beds. The
pre-war lapanese were a menace not
because of the shell they poached, but
because of the amount of “chicken” they
took with their catch.
* * * *
“Culmina”: The planet Venus being
under discussion, I would like to point
to the really remarkable sequence of its
transits. (A transit occurs when Sun,
Earth and Venus move into a
direct line, with Venus in the middle;
the planet can then be seen by the un-
aided, but not unguarded, eye as a black
spot against the Sun—the best time, of
course, for observation.) The transits
arrive in pairs, separated by eight years,
and then there is a break of over a
century, one time of 122 years, the next
time of 105 years. To give specific dates,
there were transits in 1631 and 1639, 1761
and 1769,1874 and 1882; and there will be
transits (the exact day they fall, by the
way, is known) in 2004 and 2012, 2117
and 2125, 2247 and 2255, and 2360 and
2368. A remarkable sequence, all right;
still, it may be more remarkable if Earth,
with hydrogen-bomb and all, is still here
to get in the line-up in these future
transits.
“Motuku”: To distinguish loe Blake
from the legless lizards (B. 24/10/’56)
one does not need to look beyond his
large, parallel, transverse belly-scales—
lizards haven’t got ’em. Neither do the
sea-snakes, but their flattened oar-shaped
tails give them away. One innocent,
generally slaughtered on sight in Queens-
land, is the useful insect-eating lance-
headed snake-lizard.
* * * *
“Bo”: I had taken the pup along for his
anti-distemper shot; the vet. beckoned
me into the surgery after letting out a
woman holding something that looked
like a cross between a silky-terrier and a
bandicoot; both apparently in deep
distress. I asked his nibs what was the
trouble: “Severe neurosis,” was his
verdict. I asked him which of them had
it, and he said both. It seemed the toy
: dog had been playing with too much
i vim with a neighboring dog and the
excitement had so wrought on its nervous-
system that it had chucked a doubler.
The vet. said it was on the verge of
hysterics, and that if he hadn’t given it a
sedative —in fact a whole course of them
—it might have died.
* * * *
“Griff”: “Kelvin’s” par. (B. 17/10/’56)
recalled old Harry’s first visit to the city
when “talkies” were the talk of the town.
He went to one of the city’s theatres,
then in its pristine, Oriental newness.
Stars twinkled in the night sky that domed
its minarets within—a neat bit of camou-
flage, all right. Interval came and the
old chap could repress his meteorological
instincts no longer. He rubbed his hands,
looked at the “sky” and remarked to all
and sundry, “Looks like it’ll be another
frost by them stars! ”
* « * *
IT was during the gold-rush—some-
where about 1894-95. Ted’s mother
kept a boarding-house in William-street,
near the Wesley Church, and most of her
clients were either going up to the fields
or coming back. One way and another
there was a bit of money floating around
and those who could get hold of some
of it did.
The dentist drove into Perth in a horse-
and-sulky and set up a stand in the street.
He’d pull a tooth for a shilling, sell you
a bag of sovereigns for two-bob, or fight
you for half-a-crown. A man had to
be versatile in those days.
Mind you, he could pull teeth —and it
took a good man to drag a molar from
the jaw of a husky Perth youth who had
accepted the bland assurance that it
wouldn’t hurt and was resenting the dis-
illusionment. Because there was no
effective anaesthetic then.
And when dentistry was slow, as I’ve
said, you could buy a bag of sovereigns.
Ted’s father did once. The deal was quite
open. The dentist held a small paper-
bag in one hand and five sovereigns in
the other—genuine sovereigns, too. You
could examine them. Then he’d smartly
throw them, one at a time, into the bag
and you could hear them clink as they
hit. He’d offer you the bag for two-bob.
Ted said his father bought a bag, and did
he perform when he found it contained
five halfpennies.
But it didn’t do to complain, because
the dentist would offer to fight you and
he could fight—like a threshing-machine.
Ted said once a burly challenger lost six
teeth and had his nose shifted half-an-
inch to one side. The dentist said he’d do
the surgery free, but he charged a bob
each for the extractions.
Perth was a lusty town in those days.
JACK WALKERDEN.
TOWARDS DAYLIGHT
Where do I lie ? What boughs in motion
break the wind that hurls the stars in
shoals
across the night to plunge them into
ocean
that, somewhere, its unending thunder
rolls ?
The earth reels under me. I shall awaken
somewhere, I know, as daylight first
appears,
and hear the songs of honey-eaters
shaken,
tremulous, from a ridge of grass-tree
spears.
Somewhere, I know, 1 shall set out again
for smoke-haze mountains standing
down in steep
and steep towards the ocean’s level plain.
Where casuarinas fringe their turquoise
deep,
I’ll find my cave and there, in charcoal;
scrawl
my meditation on its sandstone wall.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.


JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing- all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost °
residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per a.,
payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
OR
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL, COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £l2O P er . 1 a , n , nJl^ ( j er
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made availab e
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como. v
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are u>
to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must i“, - e j 0
requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or ot r-
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be. . ter
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed , ur -
than the 7th January, 1957, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the n
Agricultural College and not later than the ! t th February, 1957, m , ... j*
those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particuia
obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. ..
Business. Rollery. Ete.
In a Rocky Old World
A USTRALIAN sharemarkets,
after a hesitating period,
strengthened towards the end of
a week that rocked the world
but not the Stock Exchanges.
Reports on the balance-of-
payments during the week were
more encouraging, the exports
position for the first four months
of the financial year being
particularly impressive. Export
prices generally at the present
juncture are also better than
they were a few weeks ago.
But on the Stock Exchange
there are the exceptions to the
general steadiness, and, on offer
at 38s., Bradford Cotton ords.,
yielding £6 11s. per cent., look
quite attractive as an investment
for income. Australian Woollen
Mills shares at 33s. 3d.,
returning 6.7 p.c., also have
special merit. Optical Industries,
mentioned elsewhere on this
page, give the satisfactory yield
of 9 p.c. at 11s. And some of
the Sydney suburban retailers
are worth looking at, particu-
larly as the transport problem
seems more likely to worsen
than improve, and so restrict
more shoppers to the suburbs.
Optica] Industries, Ltd.
OFFERING a yield of around
9 p.c. at 11s., the 10s.
shares of Optical Industries are
bound to be attracting the
attention of those whose eye
sweeps down the “yield”
column of the daiiy-paper Stock
Exchange lists. But the shares
have been listed only for about
eight months, and one balance-
sheet has been presented by the
concern as a public co.
The organisation manufactures
spectacles and makes-up optical
prescriptions. It has its own
lense-manufacturing and frame-
making companies, and controls
a wide distribution to the public
through branches in Sydney and
its suburbs and N.S.W. country
districts, in Melbourne and other
parts of Victoria Brisbane and
Toowoomba, Adelaide and
Perth.
Manufacturing is principally
carried out in Sydney, but there
are subsidiaries also in Mel-
bourne and Brisbane.
Following conversion into a
public co., “goodwill on consoli-
dation,” etc., totalled £303,039
at June 30 last, but against this
there were reserves of £274,466,
and fixed assets appeared in the
books at cost, less depreciation
where relevant. Net tangibles on
old book-values were equal to
9s. 3d. per 10s. share.
For the year, after charging
depreciation (£15,170) and
taxation (£47,582) at the in-
creased rate, net profit was
£75,453, and represented 19.7
p.c. on capital of £383,765, so
that the 10 p.c. dividend was a
comfortable matter.
Finances, too, are easy, and
there are indications that book-
values are conservative. Stock-
values were almost the same as
in the preceding year.
The co.’s business is an
essential one; most people at
some time or other need to wear
glasses, apart from glare-glasses
and the like, and turnover is
fairly steady and predictable. In
all the circumstances, the 9 p.c.
yield offering from the co.’s
shares at the present market
looks sounder than many other
9 p.c. yields discernible in the
lists at the moment.
Myttons, Ltd.
CNTRENCHING itself
strongly in the manufacture
of stainless-steel products,
Myttons, Ltd. (South Melbourne,
Fishermen’s Bend and Ballarat),
has paid good but not politically
embarrassing dividends for
several years, and has had a
staunch sharemarket following.
Chief products are s.-s. sinks,
beer-kegs, other- containers,
baths and cutlery, as well as
E.P.N.S. cutlery. In its bath-
manufacturing activities it co-
operates with Metters, Ltd.
(General Industries).
Last year turnover was a
record at £2.4 million, and profit
at £125,090, after providing for
more taxation but less for depre-
ciation, was equal to 24.7 p.c. on
average ord. capital, compared
with 23.8 p.c. in the preceding
year, and the 12 p.c. div. was
maintained.
A policy of modernisation of
plant, charging some of the cost
to profit, has been followed
recently, and the co. is apparently
well satisfied with book-values.
Since the close of accounts a
revaluation reserve was created,
and out of the writing-up a
bonus-issue of one new ss. ord.
for each five now held has been
made. This will increase paid
capital to £625,000, all of it,
except for £25,000 of p.c.
pref. money, in ords. The effect
on the rest of the balance-sheet
will not be clear until accounts
for 1956-57 are published.
It is unusual, because of
taxation implications, to revalue
plant for bonus-issue purposes,
but the board apparently has
considered all the angles. At
June 30 last plant appeared in
the books at cost, £467,345, less
depreciation, £233,734, net
£233,611.
While earning-power recently
has been robust enough, visible
reserves have not yet risen to
the level of paid capital, and
in making a bonus-issue it would
appear that the board believes
the profit-earning potential of
the co. is particularly sound.
This the sharemarket also
seems to believe when it pays
13s, for the ss. shares to accept
a present yield of only £4 12s.
per cent.
One of the big contracts which
the co. has in hand is the making
of beer-kegs for Tooheys, the
brewers. But the sharemarket
is unquestionably paying a good
deal for future prospects, accept-
ing a lower yield than can be
got from Tooth, Carlton, Bank
of N.S.W. and Colonial Sugar,
and approximately the same as
that offering from A.C.I. and
Masonite
Melbourne ’Change Activity
/CHAIRMAN Harold Colling-
wood and Douglas Rogers,
active secretary of Melbourne
Stock Exchange, have produced
an unusually well documented
and itemised report this year,
with a note on the credit-squeeze
and its effect on the market —and
the nation.
Their committee reports a
high, continued call for equity
capital, which was well met, but
different correctives are needed
for the unsatisfactory balance-
of-payments level. Overseas
investments are inadequate to
hold inflationary pressures and
to help expand secondary-
industry exports to reduce
dependence on wool.
The committee comes up,
rather tentatively since it could
be a contentious issue, with the
suggestion that taxation conces-
sions might be accorded overseas
investors.
Melbourne ’Change continued
to expand during the year. There
are now 1744 (1637 last year)
issues quoted, valued at just short
of £4OOO million (£3720 million).
There is still a ton of cash,
chiefly from Melbourne, for
public-authority loans. Thirty of
34 public-authority loans were
underwritten in Melbourne
during the year, raising £28.3
million; four were over-
subscribed, and the deficiency on
three undersubscribed was £3.5
million.
Copper Royalties at Cobar
'T'HE alterations to copper-
royalty rates recently
announced by the N.S.W.
Government are designed to
encourage the production of
copper from marginal ore within
the State. Early in the century
N.S.W. was an important copper-
producer, annual output ranging
from 6000 tons to 10,000 tons,
but since 1918, mainly because
of the cessation of work at
Cobar, production has fallen to
something below 3500 tons.
Royalties payable by cos. with
a paid capital of £1 million or
more will, in future, be limited
to a maximum of 8 p.c.
of net profit, before tax,
while no royalty will be payable
in any year when net profit
doesn’t exceed £250,000. A
royalty rate of 2 p.c. is applic-
able where profits are between
£250,000 and £450,000, 1 p.c.
being added for each £lOO,OOO
of profit until the 8 p.c. limit
is reached. (The Queensland
limit is 5 p.c.)
Shortly after the announce-
ment of these concessions,
Broken Hill South exercised its
option to buy the mining leases
and plant at Cobar held by the
New Occidental Gold Mines,
N.L,
The fact that B.H. South is
prepared to pay £150,000 in
cash for these assets is of some
interest in the light of recent
statements that Australian pro-
duction of copper now exceeds
consumption and that world
supplies are in excess of demand.
Copper prices have fallen
sharply in the last six months,
but there have been signs of a
slight recovery in .recent weeks.
Samuel Allen and Sons Ltd.
Report of the Chairman of Directors of the Company
read at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
held at Townsville, on Monday, 29th October, 1956
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The consolidated accounts of the
Parent Company and its subsidiaries
before the Meeting today disclose a
net profit of £114,490, after providing
£55,227 for taxation. This represents
an increase in net profit of £10,095
over the previous year.
Trading was hampered, during the
year by the long-drawn-out shearers’
strike and a prolonged wet season,
culminating in a cyclone in March,
Industrial unrest was prevalent
amongst Waterside and Railway
workers, and an. anti-overtime ban
at Northern Australian Breweries
Ltd. was responsible for the re-
introduction of bulk beer quotas for
three periods during the year, with
damaging effects on the Company’s
wholesale and retail liquor sales.
Nevertheless comparable sales,
after making allowance for the sales
volume lost as a result of a change
in Company policy affecting the
wholesale grocery, butter and
produce sections conducted by the
Parent Company at Townsville and
Cairns, were at a higher level than
in the previous year. I feel sure
you will agree that an increase in
the consolidated net profit of £10,095,
after providing an additional £14,911
for income-tax, is a very gratifying
result.
The net profit of the Parent Com-
pany, after providing £68,000 for
income-tax, is £98,659, an increase
of £7440 over last year.
Capital profit of £5623, transferred
to Capital Profit Reserve, arises
from the sale of small retail selling
points previously supporting the
now discontinued wholesale grocery
section at Townsville, and a small
hotel freehold inland, the trade of
which has been retained to the Com-
pany.
Your Directors recommend the
payment of a final dividend of 4%,
making the total of the annual divi-
dend 8%.
Your Directors also recommend a
transfer of £20.000 to General
Reserve. The total reserves of the
Company and its subsidiaries will
then be £606,926, equal to 63.6% on
the paid-up capital.
You will note that in the consoli-
dated balance-sheet Land and Build-
ings increased by £87,594. This
increase represents, in the main,
progress payments on the construe-
tion of the new Ayr Hotel, the
Prince of Wales Hotel at Proser-
pine, and the Commercial Hotel at
Ayr; completed improvements to the
Newmarket Hotel, Cairns, and
further additions to the Mount Isa
Hotel, Mount Isa. A hotel freehold
has been purchased at Mossman,
also the premises housing the Ford
dealership at Mount Isa.
The decline in the sales volume of
the Parent Company, to which I
referred earlier, was consequential
upon the decision to discontinue the
wholesale grocery, butter and pro-
duce sections at Townsville and to
conduct a modified operation in
those sections at Cairns. This
decline in sales volume will explain
the reduction in Parent Company
book debts.
In my Keport last year I informed
you of the decision affecting the
sections referred to, and 1 am
pleased to report that it has proved
to be a wise one. Gross profit has
increased, although sales volume
has decreased, and expenses have
been contained. This change in
policy was fully effective for the
latter portion of the year at Towns-
ville Branch only.
The increase in stocks in the
Parent Company is largely located
in the Townsville Branch, where the
Builders’ Supplies and Electrical
Sections were operating at a higher
level of sales towards the close of
the year than earlier in the year,
The balance of the increase in stocks
shown in the consolidated accounts
is a reflection of the higher level
of sales enjoyed' by the subsidiaries,
and in particular the higher level of
sales of Magnetic Motors Pty. Ltd.
at Townsville and Mount Isa, at
which latter centre we traded for
only the last two months of the year,
All the Company’s trading sub-
sidiaries operated profitably during
the year, and trading to date indi-
cates that their profits of the past
year will be maintained. As forecast
in my report last year, A. E. Clayton
& Son Pty. Ltd., which incurred a
loss in the previous year, reverted
to profitable trading and turned in a
pleasing result.
In May of this year the Ford
dealership at Mount Isa was
acquired by Magnetic Motors Pty.
Ltd. This section has traded profit-
ably since take-over, and the joint
operation of the Townsville and
Mount Isa dealership points should
bring this subsidiary into a higher
sales category for the calendar year
to December 31 next, which would
materially benefit profits for the
current financial year. Allowing that
the profit potential for this year may
be limited by the more stringent
import restrictions now effective,
prospects for the current year are
viewed as being quite satisfactory.
Holliman’s Pty, Ltd. store at
Townsville has been completely
modernised, and we claim that it is
the outstanding store of its type in
North Queensland, comparing
favourably with major Capital City
stores handling similar merchandise.
The first stage of the Company’s
hotel programme of construction and
remodelling is approaching com-
pletion. You were informed last
year that the remodelling of the
Company’s hotel at Mount Isa had
more than justified expectations.
Trading results for the past year
exceeded those of the previous year,
Progress on the Company’s new
hotel at Ayr has been slower than
anticipated, but we expect to be
operating all sections no later than
next March. The additions to the
Oompany’s hotel at Proserpine have
been completed, and the remodelling
of the bar section is now under way.
Substantial improvements to tbe
house and bar sections of the Coin-
mercial Hotel at Ayr are also
approaching completion,
With the completion of these
works it may be necessary for the
Directors to make a further call or
calls on the contributing capital.
Shareholders can be assured that
they will receive ample notice con-
cerning any call or calls that may
be decided upon.
I wish to commend to you the
deposit proposal sponsored by
Allen’s Investments Pty. Ltd., with
the payment of quarterly interest
and the repayment of deposit
guaranteed by your Parent Corn-
pany.
The rates of interest offered are
attractive, and with our audited
consolidated balance-sheet confirm-
ing net assets in excess of £1,500,000,
the security of your deposits should
be undoubted. On the basis of our
audited net profit last year of
£199,717, subject to income-tax,
quarterly payments of interest,
which are a charge against profits
before income-tax, should also be
well covered. As stated in the letter
to shareholders submitting this
further proposal, your Directors are
encouraged on the basis of current
trading to anticipate that profits for
the current year will be in line with
those for the year just closed,
There are positive signs of con-
siderable industrial expansion in
North Queensland. Intensive de-
velopmental work continues at
Mount Isa and on the Mary Rath-
leen uranium project. The establish-
ment at Townsville of a £3,000.000
refinery by Copper Refineries Pty.
Ltd. will in itself be a tremendous
stimulus to the further industrial
development of that City. Major
Governmental projects in progress
are the Tully Falls Hydro-electric
Scheme, the first stage of which is
nearing completion, and the Tinaroo
irrigation project, progress On which
is in accordance with original
planning.
I am pleased to be able to inform
you that with the unanimous
approval of your Board, our Manag-
ing Director, Mr. J. A. Hackett, has
accepted an invitation to join the
Board of Copper Refineries Pty.
Ltd., which Company will undertake
the refining of blister copper at
Townsville on behalf of Mount Isa
Mines Ltd.
I again extend my thanks to my
co-Directors for their support and
assistance throughout the year', and
in particular to our Managing
Director. Mr. J. A. Hackett, and to
Mr. H. M. Podosky, his co-executive
Director. On behalf of shareholders
and members of the Board I extend
to our executive staff at Head Office,
branches and subsidiaries and to
Company personnel our thanks for
their efforts during the year, which
have contributed materially to the
Company’s continued success,
J. F. FLITCROFT.
Chairman.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
A/f AORILAND’S Court of
lvl. Arbitration has issued a
general order which has the
effect of increasing minimum
award wages by approximately
5 per cent., with maximum rises
of 15s. 7d. for men, 11s. 9d. for
women and Bs. lOd. for juniors,
In announcing its decision the
court said that a moderate
increase in minimum rates of pay
was necessary to restore
economic justice to the minority
of workers who received no
more than the minimum. Their
relative position had deteriorated
not only because of a rise in the
cost-of-living, but also because
actual rates of wages paid in
industry had increased much
faster than prescribed minimum
rates.
The court expressed
“complete satisfaction” that a
moderate increase in minimum
rates was well within the
national capacity to pay with-
out aggravation of inflationary
pressures.
It did not, however, seem
entirely confident that the in-
direct effect on wages generally,
and, through them, on the cost-
structure and economy of the
country, would be negligible.
It said: “If inflationary
pressures are effectively brought
under control by the special
(monetary and fiscal) measures
now in operation, the indirect
economic effects of a general
order increasing minimum rates
should be relatively less than in
the past.”
That doesn’t say a great deal.
The employers’ nominee on
the court, in a dissenting opinion,
said it appeared that the order
had been issued on the assump-
tion that, where actual wages
were adequately above the
minima prescribed by the
relevant' awards, little or no
increase would be given. He
would be happy but surprised,
he said, if the court’s optimism
were justified,
. n
Margins
In the past it has been the
general practice to increase all
wages by the amount of any
increase in minimum rates. With
labor in short supply, it was
difficult for employers to resist
demands, and, on a sellers’
market, it was easy to pass on
the extra costs,
Now, with trading conditions
more difficult, employers will
think twice,
To the extent that wage-rises
are given without extra costs to
the public, profits, already wilt-
ing, will suffer another blow,
though the effect may be miti-
gated by some increase in turn-
overs arising from greater pur-
chasing-power,
Some employers’ groups na\e


already held meetings to con-
sider the problem, and have
decided to “work together to
ensure that increases in wages
are applied only as directed in
the court’s order.”
Nevertheless, with 11,500
notified vacancies still in industry
and only 500 unemployed, it
seems unrealistic to believe that
the increase can be confined to
minimum rates. And any rise in
general rates will give a new
impetus to inflation—the arch-
enemy of national prosperity.
Pensions
Prime Minister Holland has
already announced that 200,000
pensioners will get increases
“reflecting” the court’s order and
costing the Government up to
£1,750,000.
The Government -service
organisation s —the public
service, railways and post-office
associations have to make
separate applications to their
various tribunals to have the
wages-order passed on to their
members. Generally the process
is automatic, and if the tribunals
agree in this case the cost to the
Government will be between
£3 million and £4 million a year.
The police and the armed ser-
vices have no such tribunals, but
the Government usually passes
such rises onto them.
Altogether a rise of more than
£5 million in the Government’s
bill for wages and pensions
seems likely. It will be interest-
ing to see what effect this has on
the “anti-inflationary” surpluses
of £3.7 million in the Consoli-
dated Fund and £l.l million in
the Social Security Fund which
the Minister of Finance recently
budgeted for.
As Mr. Watts said at that time,
“New Zealand is engaged in a
battle against the resurgence of
inflationary pressures.” Any-
thing that hinders the winning
of that battle, as the present
wage-rise surely will, is to be
deplored.
Costs
It is of vital importance that
costs of production should be
held in check so that Maoriland
can continue to sell its farm
produce profitably on increas-
ingly competitive world markets.
Any failure in that respect
would cost workers as well as
employers dearly.
Even if, as the court hopes,
above - award payments are
reduced, will the effects of'the
minimum wage-rise be desirable
in the national interest? The
court’s avowed intention is to
improve the relative position of
the lowest-paid workers. The
relative position of all others
will be worsened. Reduction or
elimination of above-award pay-
ments made in the past merely
because of labor scarcity will do
no harm. But any lessening of
marginal incentives for special
skill or effort can only have an
adverse effect on productivity.
Industry’s Position
Leaders of the Federation of
Labor, who must know the
truth, would be doing no more
than justice to their members if
they explained to them that it is
only through increased produc-
tivity that any substantial and
lasting rise in real wages can be
secured.
The development of more
difficult retail-trading conditions
over the last two years is well
illustrated in the following table
showing profits and dividends of
four big department-stores, which
together cover the four main
centres: —
Profits and Dividends
1954. 1955. 1956.
D.T.C 75,006 62,058 43,987
10 p.c. 10 p.c. 74 p.c.
Milne and
Choyce .. 72,110 66,237 52,607
10 p.c. 10 p.c. 74 p.c.
George Court 21,866 14,392 11,906
8 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c.
Beath .. ..*17,054 18,381 8137
124 p.c. 124 P-c. 10 p.c.
* 11 months only.
It will be noted that every one
of the four companies has shown
a fall in profit in each of the
last two years.
Brightest feature of the invest-
ment market at present is pro-
vided by meat-freezing company
shares. They have risen steadily
in price over the last few months
and continue in strong demand,
Investors obviously expect higher
profits from the industry this
year.
’ Their view is strongly sup-
ported by export figures supplied
by the N.Z. Meat Producers’
Board.-
In the 1955-56 season, which
ended on September 30, total
meat-production for export
increased by 7.3 per cent., or
28,001 tons, to a record 412,764
0 th . t t seasons
' , , .
the total increase has been 2±.i
P-e-> or 74,731 tons.
Most of the big meat-
companies have not yet presented
t heir accounts. 1 hey will do so
over the next three months. But
resu jj s le South Otago Freez-
mg Co ” a r . eady to for the
year tO . August 31, confirm
expectations of a rising profit-
tiend.
This co.’s net tax-paid profit
was 41 p.c. up at £42,510,
representing an earning-rate of
32.1 p.c. on capital or 16.7 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds. The
results reflected a record kill of
769,563 sheep and lambs and
2991 cattle, compared with
607,757 and 1261 in 1955.
NORTH BROKEN HILL LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria)
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
(Copy of the Address given by the Chairman of Directors, Mr. M. H. Baillieu, to Stockholders
at the Annual General Meeting of North Broken Hill Limited on Friday, 2nd November, 1956.)
On behalf of the Board, I
present to you the Balance Sheet,
Statement of Accounts and
Directors’ Report for the year
ended 30th June, 1956,
A copy of those documents has
been forwarded to each Stock-
holder, so, I propose, with your
concurrence, to take them as
read.
FINANCIAL
You will have seen in the
Report that the nett profit for
the year was £2,025,297, being
£14,202 higher than for the
previous year.
Income from Mine production
rose considerably as the result
of higher prices received for lead,
silver and zinc. There was also a
gain in the income received from
investments.
However, mainly because of
increases in the rates of lead
bonus payable to employees and
higher costs for power and
general supplies, Mine Expendi-
ture also increased substantially.
This factor, together with the
greater provisions required for
Taxation and Royalty, largely
offset the growth in income which
I have previously mentioned.
INVESTMENTS
As Stockholders are aware,
our most important investment
is in The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty. Ltd. That Com-
pany treats our output of lead
concentrates for the production
of refined lead and silver at its
Port Pirie Smelters, and I am
pleased to report that it had a
successful year in all respects.
The purification plant for the
cleaning of the gases from the
Dwight Lloyd sintering machine
for the production of sulphuric
acid came into operation in
January this year and constitutes
an important addition to its
activities.
It may be of interest to Stock-
holders to know that the B.H.A.S.
has the distinction of being one
of the two largest lead smelters
in the world, the other being at
1 rail, . British Columbia, belong-
ing to the Consolidated Mining &
Smelting Co. of Canada.
Another of our large share-
holdings is in Metal Manufac-
tures Limited.
This Company, with its wholly
owned subsidiary, Austral Bronze
Pty. Ltd., is engaged at Port
Kembla, New South Wales, Mari-
byrnong, Victoria, and Derwent
Park, Tasmania, in the manufac-
ture of a variety of essential
metal products.
Metal Manufactures, as well,
holds approximately a half
interest in three companies which
in New South Wales and Victoria
produce electric cables for power
transmission and reticulation, for
domestic requirements and for
communications.
Together, these Companies
constitute one of Australia’s lead-
ing industrial groups, and upon
them the Commonwealth depends
for much of those supplies vital
to its activities in the manufac-
turing, building and communica-
tion fields.
I am pleased to be able to
report the group has had a satis-
factory year.
The Electrolytic Refining &
Smelting Company of Australia
Pty. Ltd M in which we have
a 40% share interest, also had a
successful year. As a result of- the
increased production of copper
from Australian mines, the Com-
pany is operating at full capacity
in all departments.
The E. R. & S. Company is
continuing to expand its plant
and is installing modern equip-
ment to keep pace with the
higher technical standard of
product demanded by local fabri-
cators.
The equipment includes a new
casting wheel commissioned
the Windsor House and Change-
house, and the completion of the
main Headframe and Skyshaft.
The work still remaining to be
done in what I have referred to
in previous addresses as the first
part of the No. 3 Shaft pro-
gramme is mainly concerned with
the Equipping of the Breaker
Station and the construction of a
conveyor system to the Concen-
trating Mill. It also includes the
provision and installation of equip-
ment for underground electrical
and pumping installations, and
the completion of those installa-
tions and services which cannot
be finished until after the shaft
has been sunk to the required
depth.
After making allowance for
the smaller amount spent in
1955-56 than was expected, and
increases in costs, it is now esti-
mated that, over the next several
years, an expenditure of approxi-
mately £950,000 will be required
to complete all that work.
Last year, I mentioned the
almost certain need for further
capital expenditure beyond that
required for the first part of the
No. 3 Shaft programme and our
normal year-to-year additions to
plant and equipment.
In particular, I referred to
probable alterations to the ore
treatment plant. Although de-
velopments in milling practice,
both in Australia and overseas,
have been under examination by
our metallurgical staff, no de-
cision has yet been made as to
what modifications may be made
in the Flow Sheet or milling
equipment.
I also referred to the possible
transfer of the workshops and
offices to the No. 3 Shaft Area.
Whether these moves will be
necessary will depend on the
course of developments in the
next few years, and an examina-
tion of the economies which
might be expected.
Mining and milling operations
proceeded satisfactorily through-
out the year. It will be o noted
from the Report that there was a
slight fall in the percentage re-
covery of lead, but that the cor-
responding figure for zinc was
the same as for the previous
year.
The generally lower grade of
ore in recent years ia principally
attributable to the increasing
tonnages being mined from the
levels between the 2300 feet and
3070 feet horizons, where the
Southern Orebody is smaller and
of lower grade.
During the year, at the request
of the Barrier Industrial Council,
an exhaustive dust survey to de-
termine underground working
conditions, was conducted by the
Department of Health. I am
pleased to inform you that the
results confirmed the information
obtained from the routine checks
made by our own technical Staff
that underground conditions are
most satisfactory.
In accordance with our policy
of keeping constantly in touch
with the developments in mining
and allied industries throughout
the world, five of our officers this
year went overseas to study the
latest practices in metallurgy and
mine operation. The countries
visited included the United States
of America, Canada, South Africa
and India.
You may be interested to know
that the annual conference of the
Australasian Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy was held in
Broken Hill in August this year.
There were some 350 visitors to
the town all connected with the
Mining Industry. The itinerary
embraced Broken Hill, Radium
Hill and Port Pirie, and with the
object of encouraging University
students who may be attracted to
the Industry, special arrange-
ments were made to facilitate
during the year to supply the
large vertically cast copper cakes
required by local sheet rollers
for their high speed mills.
Commonwealth Aircraft Cot-
poration Pty. Ltd. in which your
Company is a shareholder, has
been fully employed during the
past year on production which in-
cluded the Avon-Sabre Aircraft,
“Winjeel” Trainers and “Avon”
gas turbine engines for the
R.A.A.F., but these projects are
rapidly nearing completion.
We realise that decisions on
new types of armaments must
present many difficult problems
to the Government. However,
the aircraft industry, with it*s
large organisation, which includes
many highly trained specialist
technicians, cannot be maintained
without orders.
It is, therefore, hoped that a
decision will shortly be reached,
and that orders for a new project
can be placed in the near future.
The Company has continued
with the production of bus bodies
for General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.,
and has orders in hand which
ensure continuity of this highly
successful activity for some time
to come.
Since our other principal in-
vestments are in public com-
panies whose reports and
accounts are published, I do not
propose to comment on their
activities.
MINE
The tonnage of ore extracted
from all sections of the Mine was
380,065, as compared with
383,254 for the previous year.
Our ore reserves at the 30th
June were estimated at 4,883,000
tons, which is an increase of
186,000 over the figure at June,
1955.
This increase in ore reserves
was principally due to the de-
velopmental work on the three
lowest levels of the Mine at
present being opened up. In
the Junction Section, there was
a further increase in reserves to
313,000 tons. Over the past ten
years, that Section *has con-
tributed over 205,000 tons of ore
to the Mine’s output, and during
this period its ore reserves have
increased by 108,000 tons.
In the year under review
11,769 feet of exploratory .drill-
ing was carried out below the
3,3 70 feet level, in the course
of which further valuable infor-
mation regarding the behaviour
of the orebodies at depth was
obtained.
The drilling indicates the per-
sistence of the orebodies at least
to the 4120 feet horizon. More-
over, it has confirmed that there
is a steepening of pitch on the
southern end of the orebody.
What is more important, is that
it has proved the existence of
high grade ore 300 feet farther
south on the 3820 feet horizon
than was previously anticipated.
This means that there will be a
substantial increase in the size of
the orebody at that depth. When
taken with the results of the
previous year’s drilling, this con-
stitutes most important informa-
tion regarding the long term
future of the Mine.
At the end of the financial
year, the stripping of No. 3 Shaft
had been completed to the 3070
feet level. Since then, the new
cage winding engine has been
brought into commission to assist
in the sinking operations which
are now proceeding satisfactorily.
In the current year the rate of
progress will be somewhat slower
than it was previously, owing to
the necessity to suspend sinking
operations whilst plats are being
cut at the 3220, 33 70 and pos-
sibly the 3520 feet levels.
Constructional work in the No.
3 Shaft area was largely con-
fined to equipping and fitting out
their attendance at the Con-
ference.
The Company has continued
its policy of interesting itself in
the general welfare of its em-
ployees, and assisting in the main-
tenance of various recreational
and community organisations in
Broken Hill.
The Mines Dental Clinic, which
was opened in 1948 to provide
treatment for employees of the
Mining Companies and their
families, has been a great success.
During the current financial year,
it will move into new and more
spacious premises, which, with
modern layout and facilities,
should enable what is already a
very fine service to be further
improved.
Last year I mentioned that
arrangements were practically
completed for the formation of a
fourth Building Society. This
Society has since been registered,
and with the number of em>
ployees still wishing to build their
own homes, already it has been
almost fully subscribed.
GENERAL
All of the lead and zinc con-
centrates which we produced
during the year under review was
sold to The Broken Hill Associ-
ated Smelters Pty. Ltd. and the
Electrolytic Zinc Company of
Australasia Ltd. respectively at
prices based on the realised prices
obtained for the metals derived
from the concentrates.
In the case of lead, 77% of the
metal produced was exported,
and of this 54% was sold to the
United Kingdom and 45% to the
United States. The average price
realised for overseas sales of lead
was £ Al3l/19/5 per ton com-
pared with £A 122/7/5 for the.
previous year. Zinc derived from
our concentrates which was not
required for the Australian
market was almost all sold to the
United Kingdom.
Our silver, less that required
for Australian industrial pur-
poses, was sold through London
either for use in the United King-
dom or for re-export. The
average price received for all
sales during the year was Bs. Id.
per ounce compared with
7s. 7 7/16d. for the preceding
year. i
In line with the better prices
which we received for lead and
silver, the average price for zinc
for the year 1955-56 was also
higher.
Both for lead and zinc, world
production and consumption
figures for the calendar year 1955
were once again higher than for
the previous year, and showed
increases which followed the
broad general trends of the last
two decades.
With increasing world trade
and the great industrial expansion
which is going on in almost every
country, I think that we are en-
titled to look optimistically on the
long-term future of our industry
provided that our costs of pro-
duction are kept to a level which
would enable us to weather such
more difficult periods as we may
encounter.
I am glad to report that this
present year has started satisfac-
torily. Our production is slightly
ahead of the equivalent period
last year although the grade is
somewhat lower. Also, the prices
realised for our products com-
pare well with those obtained
during the opening months of the
last financial year. However, I
am sure you will realise that with
the present state of world affairs
it is impossible to make any pre-
diction for the immediate future.
STAFF
I should like to take this oppor-
tunity of again paying a tribute
to the staff of the Company for
the splendid work they have
accomplished during the year.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
XTNOWN familiarly to the public as
D.J.’s, this retail business has been
established in Sydney for well over 100
years, the last 50 of them as a public
co. Three years ago it began to reach
out to the country areas of N.S.W. and to
other States: in 1953 the 82-year-old
business of David Copland and Co.,
Wagga (N.S.W.), was bought. A year
later a controlling-interest was acquired
in the 60-year-old West Australian
retailer Bon Marche, followed in the
1954 term by the purchase of the 90-year-
old Adelaide drapery concern of Charles
Birks and Co. The price for Birks was
£773,500, paid in shares with a face-
value of £652,000 and £121,500 cash.
Early last term the co. successfully
outbid Melbourne’s Myer Emporium,
also a contender for Charles Birks, for
the important Brisbane retailer Finney
Isles and Co. To effect the deal David
Jones paid over to the accepting Finney’s
shareholders scrip with a par-value of
£677,121 and £789,974 cash, in all a
consideration of £1,467,095.
The presence of Myer’s as a com-
petitor for the Queen-street department-
store made the cost to David Jones a
fairly high one, though on the 1956
profits the co. has tackled the task of
consolidation in thoroughgoing fashion.
Notwithstanding a year made pretty test-
ing by heavier costs and taxation and the
tighter rationing of imported goods, turn-
over of the group advanced £4 million to
£32 million, on which the £939,751 (up
£127,253) profit claimed by the co. was
2.94 p.c., about the same as the previous
term’s performance. As a percentage of
ordinary and employee capital earnings
were equal to just on 33.4 p.c., as against
31.8 p.c. in 1955:
Parent Only.
, Dividends «,
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7$ p.c. Ordinary. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 338.145 9000 18,750 10 p.c.=106,875 1,871,678
1952. .280,270 9000 18,750 10 „ ~140,500 1,983,698
1953. .391,559 9000 18,750 124,. ~175,625 2,171,882
Workers’ compensation res. £76,029 .. 2,247,911
Contingencies res. appears, £280,667.. 2,528,578
From tax reserve, £200,381 .. .. 2,728,950
1954. .655,211 9000 18,750 15 p.c.=210,750 3,145,670
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £116,930 .. 3,267,834
To contingencies, etc., £11,194 .. 3,279,028
Tax overprovided, £16,428 .. .. 3,290,222
1955. .812,498 9000 18,750 15 p.c.=308,550 3,766,420
From stock-depree’n prov., £300,000 4,066,420
To contingencies, etc., £8991 .. 4,075,411
Tax overprovided, £6945 . . . . 4,082,356
1956. .939,751 9000 18,750 15 p.c.=410,118 4,584,239
* Excludes workers’-compensation reserve until 1953.
Depreciation of £101,591 absorbed an
extra £26,931 last year, and taxation,
£760,157, an additional £160,551.
Ordinary and employee shareholders
again received a 15 p.c. div., though
without the “bonus” qualification that
attached to 2 i p.c. of the distribution in
the two preceding years.
On a review of the stock position,
£300,000 of the provision built-up against
possible fluctuations in the future has
been transferred to free reserves.
Allowing for the other adjustments inter-
lined in the table, the co.’s disclosed
reserves at July 31 stood half as high
again as its paid capital.
The expansion of balance-sheet figures
represented mainly the absorption of
Finney’s into the group:
Parent Co. , Consolidated
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital ..£1,805,000 £2,457,000 £3,134,121
Reserves .. 3,145,670 3,766,420 4,684,239
Outside interests 198,092 223,181
Mortgages, etc... 750,000 834,000 1,726,000
Overdraft .. 447,258 .
Sundry creditors 1,868,866 2,433,789 2,931,494
Tax provision .. 463,000 599,606 793,265
Final divs. .. 136,813 193,863 218,984
£8,169,349 £10,930,028 £18,611,284
Freeholds .. 2,082,765 2,598,209 3,214,316
Plant, etc. .. 349,283 689,088 1,166,461
Shares .. .. 286,838 39,267 63,966
Advance subsids. 212,177
Stocks .. .. 3,351,867 4,905,436 5,693,990
Book debts .. 1,625,151 2,503,859 2,933,936
Cash .. .. 261,268 34,336
Goodwill .. 134,169 614,229
£8,169,349 £10,930,028 £13,611,234
An increase in the long-term debt (up
£892,000) eased the already comfortable
liquid position further during the year.
When the books closed current assets
exceeded liabilities by more than two-
to-one.
All fixed assets appear in the balance-
sheet at cost, less depreciation, at
£3,287,297, which basis, in respect of the
Sydney freeholds at least, is well below
the valuation of the N.S.W. Valuer-
General. There property entered in the
co.’s books at £1,850,566 is officially
valued at £7,412,500, which figure, David
Jones’s chairman commented, while giving
ground for satisfaction when calculat-
ing assets, is also the basis on which
municipal- and water-rates and the new
State land-levy are calculated.
On book-values net tangible cover for
the prefs. is £4B Os. 7d. the 6 p.c. firsts and
£2B 4s. 6d. the 7£ p.c. seconds, and for
the ords. 495. 9d. At 20s. 6d. and 225. 6d.
the return from the firsts and seconds is
5.8 p.c. and 6.7 p.c. respectively and from
the ords., at 525. 9d., 5.7 p.c.
Olympic Consolidated Industries
/"OLYMPIC Consolidated Industries was
formed in 1953 as the holding co. for
the Olympic and Beaurepaire cos. that
had grown up around the then 20-year-
old Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. Ord.-
shareholders in the tyre co. exchanged
their scrip for shares in the parent on a
slightly better than two-for-one basis.
Originally concerned with the manu-
facture of motor-vehicle tyres, Olympic
Tyre and Rubber commenced the manu-
facture of insulated cables in 1940, and
six years later Olympic Cables, Ltd., was
formed to take-over that section of the
business. Two Beaurepaire subsidiaries
operate a chain of 19 tyre-retreading and
general service-stations, 15 in Victoria and
two in both N.S.W. and S.A. A market-
ing-agent for various products of the
manufacturing cos., Olympic General
Products, formed in 1949, handles rubber
flooring, hose and belting, etc.
Principal manufacturing - centres are
Footscray (Vic.) and Geebung (Q.), while
a 26-acre-site at Tottenham (Vic.) is now
being developed.
No public issue was made on the for-
mation of the parent co., which completed
its first year with a paid capital of
£6,586,996, of which £153,467 was in £1
5 p.c. prefs. Intangibles came into the
books at £1,533,573. The pref.-rate was
altered to 6 p.c. in 1955 when the co.
issued 1.5 million £1 prefs. at par, half
of the issue being reserved for share-
holders. When the new prefs. are fully-
paid, in January, ’57, pref. capital will
account for £1,653,467 of the total
(£8,086,996) paid capital. To assist the
co. in the development of the Tottenham
site, 1£ million £l7 p.c. notes, participat-
ing to 9 p.c., were offered to shareholders
and employees early in the current term.
A 9 p.c. ord. div. was paid out of the
first term’s earnings, and this rate has
been maintained. Profits claimed by the
co. in its first two years excluded amounts
allocated for future technical develop-
ment and the increased cost of plant-
replacement, etc. These provisions
totalled £570,034 at June 30, 1954, and
subsequent additions have been included
with earnings shown in the following
table:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends — N To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. — serves. Deficit.*
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £2019 .. .. 1,169,524
Tax overprovided, £591 . . . . 1,168,933
To prov. plant-replacement, £450,000. . 1,618,933
’55..1,359,500 7,678 9 = 579,018 772,809 846,124
Profit sale assets, £3591 .. .. 842,533
Tax underprovided, £3013 .. . . 845,546
Share-issue expenses, £71,722 . . 917,268
Increase in intangibles, £2491 .. 919,759
6 p.c.
’56..1,140,736 83,232 9 = 579,018 478,486 441,273
♦After deducting intangibles, £1,536,064 at
30/6/’56.
A steep increase in the cost of raw
rubber in the second and third quarters
of 1955 was followed early in 1956 by
a drop in prices, but increased labor-costs
and a slightly reduced demand from the
automotive industry made trading some-
what less profitable during the term com-
pleted last June.
After providing £815,000 (up £55,000)
for taxation and £393,823 (up £55,096)
for depreciation and amortisation, the
accounts show a net profit of £1,140,736,
a fall of £218,764 if the provision for
increased cost of plant-replacement is
included in the previous term’s earnings.
The pref. div. called for an extra
£75,559 to service the larger capital at the
higher 6 p.c. rate, the balance of earnings
equalling 16.4 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 21 p.c. in the preceding year.
On total shareholders’ funds the
£1,140,736 represented a return of 12.5
p.c.
Reserves have benefited from the
moderate div.-rate, and, although not
large in relation to paid capital, have the
support of the provisions for plant-
replacement, etc., mentioned earlier,
which now total £1,020,034. Fixed assets
(at “cost or valuation,” less depreciation)
have increased by £1,126,353 since
1954:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. .. £153,467 £153,467 £1,553,441
Ord. . . 6,433,529 6,433,529 6,433,529
Reserves .. 362,030 687,449 1,094,791
Prov. plant re- ,
placement and
contingencies,
etc 570,034 1,020,034 1,020,034
Minority interest 3,035 4,049
Registered notes 164,660
Mortgage .. 907 868 847
Overdraft .. 1,410,753 1,419,936
Creditors .. 1,523,874 1,792,796 2,316,806
Tax prov. .. 837,253 778,789 823,154
Final div. .. 261,178 293,346 328,345
£10,145,307 £12,575,080 £15,155,543
Freeholds .. 1,241,987 1,455,928 1,873,253
Leaseholds .. 43,241 40,063 35,964
Plant, etc. .. 1,236,311 1,438,036 1,738,676
Debtors . . 1,604,635 2,124,037 2,563,145
Stock .. . . 4,012,887 5,979,018 7,406,110
Cash and invest-
ments .. 472,673 4,425 3,332
Intangibles .. 1,533,573 1,533,573 1,536,064
£10,146,307 £12,575,080 £15,155,543
During the term stocks (shown after
deducting a £900,000 provision against
price-fluctuations) rose by £1,426,092
and £439,108 was added to debtors.
Proceeds of the pref.-issue, retained earn-
ings, and an increase of £524,010 in the
amount owing to creditors, provided the
funds necessary for the balance-sheet
movements.
To meet the growing demand for
insulated cable, the co. intends to erect
a new cable-factory at Tottenham, draw-
ing on the proceeds from the £l|-million
note-issue to finance the construction.
The co. has grown considerably in the
three years since it was formed, and share-
holders should ultimately benefit from
the continuing capital-expenditure.
There is a net tangible asset backing of
£4 17s. 2d. for each £1 of pref. capital
and 4s. Bd. for each f.-p. ss. ord. share.
At 19s. 3d. the f.-p. prefs. return 6.2
p.c., the f.-p. ss. ords. bringing in 6.1 p.c.
at 7s. sd. from a 9 p.c. distribution.
International Resistance Holdings
THE production of TV-equipment in
Australia has stimulated the demand
for many of the products manufactured
or distributed by the International Resist-
ance group. The directors say that turn-
over in the current term is already “well
ahead” of the corresponding 1955 figures.
The parent co., International Resist-
ance Holdings, Ltd., was formed in 1950,
and by the issue of scrip to a face-value
of £171,930 acquired the paid capital
of the then 16-year-old International
Resistance Co. (A/sia), Ltd., Wm. J.
McLellan and Co. Pty., National Trans-
formers Pty. (all of Sydney), and Aus-
tralasian Engineering Equipment Co.
Pty. (Melb.). In the following year
Conqueror Cables Pty. (Sydney) was
taken-over at a cost of £12,500 in cash
and £12,500 in scrip.
The group manufactures, imports and
distributes an extensive range of electrical
resistances, capacitors, insulated-cables,
transformers, coils, etc., as well as
electrical and recording tapes and
fluorescent-lighting equipment.
Shareholders have had plenty of oppor-
tunities to increase their holdings, par
issues in 1951 (one-for-two), 1952 (one-
for-four), and 1956 (one-for-two) adding
£340,570 to paid capital, which, with
£lOO,OOO from the issue of 7£ p.c. prefs.
early in 1955, now totals £625,000. The
co. also raised £70,000 by the issue in
1954 of 6 p c. notes calling for repayment
in 1959.
The promising results achieved early in
the last term weren’t maintained for the
full year, higher sales-tax and the immin-
ence of television causing a fall in the
production of radio-receivers and a
consequent decline in demand from
radio-manufacturers. The small drop in
net' earnings, however, was due to the
higher rate of co.-tax, £43,810 (up £8676)
being set aside to meet this liability before
arriving at a net profit of £60,638, £4lBl
less than in the previous term. An extra
£1679 (to £20,410) was charged for
depreciation and amortisation:
International Resistance Holdings and
Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. ( Ord. >, serves, serves.*
30, £ £ £ £ £
7} p.c.
1950..31,525 8J p.c. = 14,274 17,251 41,763
To assets revaluation reserve, £22,295 64,058
Unexplained additions, £7199 .. 71,257
1951..42,712 10 p.c. = 20,832 21,880 93,137
Unexplained additions, £2 .. .. 93,139
1952..49,294 10 p.c. = 28,000 21,294 114,433
Tax overprovided, £648 .. .. 115,081
1953.. 13,077 3 p.c. = 10,500 2,577 117,658
Tax overprovided, £2709 .. .. 120,367
1954..40,756 10 p.c. = 35,000 5,756 126,123
1955.. 64,879 1563 10 „ ~35,000 28,257 154,380
Revaluation freeholds, £35,966 .. 190,346
1956..60,638 7500 10 p.c. = 40,834 12,304 202,650
♦Subject to intangibles, £151,001 at 30/6/’56.
Dividends on the pref. capital for the
full term required £7500, and the
unchanged 10 p.c. div. on the enlarged
ord. capital took £40,834 (up £5834).
Earnings covered the pref. div. and 13
p.c. on average ord. capital, compared
with 19.2, 11.6, 3.7, and 17.6 p.c. back
to 1952. Unaltered ord. and pref. divs.
for a full term on the higher capital
would call for £60,000, only £638 less
than the term’s earnings.
The book-value of certain freeholds
was increased by £35,966 following a
revaluation during the term and, with the
erection of new premises at Preston (Vic.)
and extensions to the Punchbowl
(N.S.W.) factory, the balance-sheet shows
a net increase of £179,214 in the “cost
or valuation” figure given for fixed
assets: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1953. 1954. 1955. 1956.
Olds. . . £350,000 £350,000 £350,000 £525,000
Prefs. . . 100,000 100,000
Reserves ..117,658 126,123 154,380 202,660
Notes .. 70,000 70,000
Mortgages .. 43,321 60,718 66,312 89,924
Overdraft .. 43,209 64,702 14,678 62,161
Creditors,
etc.* .. 60,611 80,845 111,141 192,059
Final div. .. 10,500 17,500 19,062 24,167
£625,359 £699,888 £885,573 £1,265,961
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . 187,177 243,325 292,927 472,580
Leaseholds . . 2,547 1,493 439
Stocks . . 205,518 209,349 306,237 436,129
Debtors, etc. 87,320 103,018 136,917 204,739
Cash . . 1,394 1,342 1,495 1,512
Intangibles. . 141,403 141,361 147,558 151,001
£625,359 £699,888 £885,573 £1,265,961
* Includes provision for taxation.
The ratio of outside liabilities to balance-
sheet totals (34.6 p.c.) has increased
slightly despite the new capital, £23,612
being added to the mortgage, £47,483 to
the overdraft and £80,918 to the amount
owing to creditors (including the tax-
provision). Stocks were much heavier
at £436,129 (up £129,892) and debtors
increased by over 50 p.c. to £204,739.
Arrangements were made during the
year giving the co. access to certain
patents held by A. H. Hunt (Capacitors),
Ltd., a large British manufacturer of
electrical capacitors.
The f.-p. ss. ords. have a net tangible
backing of ss. 6d. and at 6s. Bd. return
7.5 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div. Not often
seen on the market, the 1\ p.c. prefs.,
supported by tangible assets of £6 15s. 4d.,
last sold around 19s. 6d. to yield 7.7 p.c.
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd.
Parent Co.
June t Dividends To Re- Re-
-30, Profit. Pref. , Ord. N serves. serves.
10 p.e.
£t £> £, & £
1955.. 81.563 7500 Nil 24,063 231,019
Assets revalued, £74,318 .. .. 305,337
To provision against shares in Auto.
Totes (U.S.A.), £185,000 .. 120,337
To provision against shares other
cos., £BOO 119,537
To exchange-fluctuations provision,
£24,27 6 95,261
To staff fund, £7500 87,761
1956.. 41,692 6000 5 p.c. = 27,464 9,228 96,989
* Six months only. Arrears were paid in 1955.
-FOLLOWING a loss of just on £5OOO
'-*• in 1954, the first in 36 years of
trading, Automatic Totes’ business has
taken a definite turn for the better over
the last two terms, which makes the co.’s
acceptance of the loss of its entire
£185,000 capital-investment in Automatic
Totalisators (U.S.A.), Ltd., a little easier
to bear.
Last year, before writing its profit
£10,129 higher at £41,692, the co. set
aside £50,832 (down £4489) for deprecia-
tion and an undisclosed amount for
income tax. After paying £5OOO to pref.
shareholders, enough profit remained to
show 6.7 p.c. on the ords., compared
with 4.8 p.c. the year before. Ords.
received a 5 p.c. div., the first since 1953.
As well as a shareholder, the co. is
creditor to its American associate to the
tune of £274,330 for equipment, etc., sup-
plied, against which no provision has been
made for default, since it is claimed that
all negotiations to date with American
interests have provided for a payment
more than sufficient to cover the amount
of the debt. Negotiations have proceeded
off and on, without success, over the last
two years for the disposal of the assets
and business of the co., which has pro-
duced losses in each of its five years up
to June 30, 1955. The figures for 1956
are not yet available ; however, policy in
North America is at present being over-
hauled following a visit there last year
by the general-manager of the Australian
co. The potential exists and the directors
feel that developmental work now under
way on totalisator equipment will enhance
the co.’s prospects in both the North and
South American markets.
Elsewhere overseas the market for tote
equipment is being developed, but, in
some countries, currency controls, which
were the main reason behind the loss
incurred in 1954, continue to make it
difficult to do business.
In Australia and N.Z. revenue front
the sale of equipment is supplemented
by charges for operating the totes, based
on a percentage of gross totalisator turn-
over, which reached its peak in Australia
in 1952. With the disappearance of east
money racegoing has waned, though latel}
racing clubs, which share directly in the
tote take, have made attempts to channe
through the machines more of the monej


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
MAGNETIC ORE SEPARATOR
Manufactured by Rapid Magnetic Machines, Ltd., England,
V
for the recovery of
Zircon Rutile, etc., from
beach and other sands
and magnetic minerals.
Machines also for re-
moval of iron, etc., from
various products. Lift-
ing Magnets, Clutches,
Holding or Clamping
Magnets, Magnetic Floor
Sweepers, etc.
Send for Bulletin to
the Agents :
GUTHRIDGE PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.,
Manufacturers of Curvilinear Concentrating Tables, Water
Filters, Everlasting Steam Valves, etc.
being wagered through on-and-
off-the-course bookmakers.
The tool-and-gauge section of
the factory at Meadowbank
(N.S.W.) operated profitably last
term, and further progress was
made with the manufacture of
timing devices for domestic
appliances. Additional lines are
being considered which will help
to keep a substantial part of
plant-capacity in continuous
production, which recent experi-
ence has shown is not possible
with the manufacture of total-
isators.
To provide for the loss on
shares in the overseas cos. and
set-up an exchange-fluctuations
provision against funds held in
foreign banks (mainly Brazil),
the co. wrote-up the value of its
freehold property £74,318 and
made other transfers from
reserves involving a net reduction
of £134,030:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £50,000 £50,000
Ord 549,273 549,273
Reserves .. .. 231,019 96,989
Notes .. .. 150,000 150,000
Due to subsids. . . 6,316 8,539
Overdraft .. .. 430,797 354,032
Creditors .. .. 134,369 88,108
Staff fund .. 3,000 10,500
Tax provision . . 15,000 35,000
Dividends .. 2,600 29,964
£1,571,274 £1,372,405
Freehold .. .. 156,028 230,927
Plant, etc. . . 185,728 155,902
Installations .. 466,161 426,717
Investments—
Auto. Totes
(U.S.A.) .. 185,000
Subsidiaries .. 4,864 4,864
Other shares .. 1,871 71
Due from subsids. 259,954 274,330
Stock 158,819 164,881
Debtors .. . . 100,997 78,397
Cash overseas .. 34,916 16,651
Cash on hand . . 429 460
Patent rights, etc. 16,507 19,205
£1,571,274 £1,372,405
After the reorganisation, which
appears to have taken full
account of all likely losses, net
tangible asset cover was
£l3 10s. lOd. for the prefs., and
225. lOd. the ords. Including
advances to overseas associates
current assets exceeded liabilities
by £35,867 on June 30.
Priced at 11s. 3d. (7s. 9d.
earlier in the year) the £1 ords.
return 8.9 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The tightly held prefs.,
which carry a fixed cumulative
10 p.c., haven’t appeared on
’Change this year.
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
A STRONG world - wide
demand for copper kept
prices high for most of the last
financial year. Australian quota-
tions reached a peak of £537 10s.
a ton in April, '56 (against
£444 10s. 12 months earlier), with
a resultant lift in the income of
Mt. Morgan, Ltd., despite a
lower output of copper and
gold from the Queensland open-
cut. Since April prices have
fallen sharply, dropping to £353
(selling) in October before show-
ing some signs of recovery.
According to the directors of
Mt. Morgan, Australian produc-
tion of copper now exceeds local
consumption.
Removal of overburden has
necessitated intricate and costly
work by the co., and part of the
cost of gaining access to the
Sugarloaf ore is being capitalised,
to be written-off when the ratio
of overburden to ore falls below
the average for the mine.
Ore reserves were more than
doubled several years ago some
lime after diamond-drilling had
disclosed large deposits of a high
pyritic content in the Sugarloaf
area. (The value of these deposits
is now affected by the poor
demand for pyrites.) The book-
value of the mine was written-up
by £1,050,000 and a three-for-
one bonus-issue made in 1952,
lifting ord. capital to £1,400,000.
There are 2,000,000 7 p.c. 10s.
prefs. redeemable over 10 years
commencing 1963 or convertible
into ords. in 1960 on the basis of
two 10s. ords. for every three
prefs.
For the year to June 30 last
the ratio of overburden removed
to the 841,836 tons of ore mined
(down 127,619 tons) was 2.98
to 1 against 2.75 to 1 in the
preceding year:
Sulphide
Waste Ore —Assay v
June. Discarded, Treated, Gold, Copper.
Tons. Tons. Dwt. p:c.
1953.. 2,521,004 834,200- 2.45 0.92
1954.. 2,878,046 824,050 3.02 0.96
1955.. 2,675,298 930,600 2.14 0.87
1956.. 2,512,736 829,800 1.78 0.93
The gold-content continued to
fall from the level reached in
1954, when a limited quantity of
rich ore was encountered. The
copper grade was somewhat
higher, but the lower through-
put resulted in a reduction of
282.5 tons of copper-in-
concentrates. The grade in both
cases was lower than that esti-
mated for the reserves, which at
the end of the term were cal-
culated at 15,727,000 tons.
Less copper came from the
smelter, and there was a big
drop in the quantity of gold:
> Metal Content s
Blister, Copper, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Tons. Oz. Oz.
1953 . . 6237 6164 61,640 24,220
1954 . . 5474 6402 61,945 18,195
1955 . . 6765 6678 67,815 21,185
1956 . . 6688 6604 47,655 20,520
Production of pyrites for the year
was 55,450 tons, but it has been
“almost unsaleable,” only 9523
tons being disposed-of. Hopes
that the fertiliser industry would
provide a market for pyrites
(obtained from marginal ore)
have not been realised despite
the payment of a bounty to
promote the manufacture of
sulphuric - acid from this
indigenous sulphur - bearing
material.
The expenditure on over-
burden increased by £75,004 (to
£762,355), although the quantity
removed was lower. Of this
expenditure, £63,191 (down
£170,663) was capitalised, a
much heavier charge, £699,164
(up £245,667), being made against
income, with a consequent
reduction in earnings:
Ord.
June, Income, Exes.f Profit. Div.*
£ £ £ £
80 p.c.
1951 1,699,946 1,329,238 370,707 280,000
20 p.c.
1952 2,463,023 2,067,445 385,578 280,000
1953 2,658,043 2,210,017 448,026 280.000
1954 2,738,837 2,298,192 440,645 280,000
26 p.c.
1955 3,295,104 2,610,784 684,320 300,000
20 p.c.
1956 3,410,342 2,828,809 581,533 280,000
* Prefs. received 7 p.c. p.a. in addition,
t Includes depreciation and taxation, etc.
A net profit of £581,533
(down £102,787) was claimed
after charging £200,000 (up
£100,000) for depreciation. No
additions were made to pro-
visions for copper-price fluctu-
ations and obsolete stores which
received £160,000 in the previous
term. The ord. distribution was
dropped from 25 p.c. to 20 p.c.
At 225. the f.-p. 10s. ords.
return 9.1 p.c. from a 20 p.c.
div. The convertible prefs.
recently changed hands at 12s.
Streets’ Ice Cream Ltd.
Record Turnover and Nett Profit
Policy of Expansion—New Capital Issue
Turnover exceeded £l| million —a record —in the last
financial year, the Chairman of Streets Ice Cream Ltd., Mr.
K. C. Wiseman, said at the Annual Meeting in Wollongong
on November 2. Nett profit was also a record. Dividend for
the year was increased from 13% to 14% and reserves and
undivided profits now total £468,550, exceeding the subscribed
capital by £33,220.
Mr. Wiseman said:—
In submitting the Report of the
Directors together with the
relevant Financial Statements, I
have every confidence that you will
be pleased with the results which
have been achieved.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEET.—This includes the assets
and liabilities both of Streets Ice
Cream Limited and of its sub-
sidiaries Lynam’s Ice Cream Pty.
Limited and Ice Cream Messengers
Pty. Limited, and comparison with
last year reveals that Fixed Assets
increased by £53,995 and that
Current Assets increased by £60,258,
whilst Stockholders’ Funds
increased by £96,639. Current
Liabilities increased by £17,614.
Reviewing these movements, one
is struck immediately by the fact
that Cash at Bank increased by
£36,247, whereas Trade Creditors
decreased by £26,651. This will
give some evidence of the sound
liquid position of the Company’s
finances, particularly when taking
into account the considerable
increase in sales, the increases
which have been experienced in
costs of materials and wages, and
the general economic sanctions.
As a consequence of these move-
ments it will also be noted that
the net tangible asset backing of
each stock unit of £1 has now
increased to 36/7 as compared with
32/3 last 7ear and 23/2 in 1952
when the shares were first listed.
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND
LOSS ACCOUNT.—After charging
£lBO7 for Directors Fees; £53,500
for Depreciation of Fixed Assets;
and £109,500 Provision for Income
Tax, the aggregate net profit
remaining amounted to £150,408.
This was an increase of £21,313
over last year and represented an
equivalent return of 34.5% on the
Subscribed Capital of the Com-
pany or 16.6% on Stockholders
Funds.
The Reserves and Undistributed
Profits of the Company now total
£468,550, exceeding the Subscribed
Capital by £33,220. This achieves
one of our financial objects and
is most satisfactory.
LYNAM’S ICE CREAM PTY.
LTD. —The new factory erected at
Parramatta with the modern plant
installed there has been employed
to fujl capacity and has yielded
increased turnover enabling absorp-
tion of increased costs.
The first full year of operations
in the new factory fully justifies
the action of the Directors in con-
solidating in the rapidly expanding
Western Area of Sydney. The
Factory Manager, Executives and
Employees have had the usual
difficulties to overcome in a new
establishment and we must pay
them a tribute for their efforts in
overcoming the problems and at
the same time increasing produc-
tion and distribution.
ICE CREAM MESSENGERS PTY.
LTD. —This subsidiary too, has
fully exploited its new premises
and plant and has more than ful-
filled its function as an additional
sales outlet. It depends for its
business largely on weekend and
house to house sales and having
regard to the abnormal number
of wet weekends which were
experienced during the summer,
the results are very satisfactory.
DIVIDEND.—A final dividend of
8% is recommended to be paid by
Streets Ice Cream Limited making
14% for the year.
SALES. —The total sales amounting
to £1,542,562 established a record
for the Company. It is significant
that this figure is now more than
twice that which was made in
1952 when the Company was first
listed on the Sydney Stock
Exchange. The increase in sales
coupled with the rapid growth and
added prestige which have been
experienced since that year tell
their own story and I am sure
that the Stockholders will share
my satisfaction at the progress
which has attended the efforts of
all concerned.
Aided by judicious advertising,
energetic sales campaigns and lastly
but most importantly by an
excellent product and appealing
lines, the Company has extended
its sales into new areas. At the
same time care has been taken to
consolidate existing sales areas,
particularly on the South Coast
in order to obtain as much as
possible of the new business aris-
ing from increase in population
and expansion generally.
The Company is fortunate that
its business originated in Greater
Wollongong as there is probably
no other area in Australia with an
expansion potential comparable to
that envisaged in that City. This
expansion will be accelerated by
the recently announced £lOO
million capital expenditure pro-
gramme planned by Broken Hill
Proprietary Limited and the Inner
Harbour Project at Port Kembla
both of which proposals will
involve a large increase in popula-
tion. The Directors accordingly
anticipate increased demand and
have let a contract for additions to
the Corrimal Factory. This work
has been commenced and should
be completed before Christmas.
A depot and agency established
at Goulburn in November 1955
has enabled us to make a concen-
trated drive for sales in that
district with good results.
We are accordingly now well
consolidated in the South Coast
and Tablelands area and can con-
sider plans for expansion in the
metropolitan, northern, and
western regions.
Towards this objective we have
acquired land in a satisfactory
position at Newcastle. We have
also acquired a leasehold depot at
Gosford to serve the intervening
district. We shall implement these
plans as soon as organisation per-
mits and in the meantime we are
making supplies available in the
Gosford District from our
Metropolitan factories.
The acquisition of new business
in Sydney and its suburbs has pro-
ceeded at a steadily increasing
rate and the Turrella Factory is
now one of the largest and most
modern ice-cream manufacturing
units in the industry.
Given a change from the long
succession of inclement weather
which has been experienced over
the past nine months, we can
expect further improvement in
turnover.
TRADING CONDITIONS. As
has already been mentioned the
weather during the financial year
was below average..
In addition to this natural sales
difficulty, there were the incidences
of increased manufacturing. and
distributing expenses. The
principal components making up
the increases were wages, prices
for raw and manufacturing
materials and depreciation on new
plant and machinery.
To overcome these adverse
factors, the whole resources of the
Company were directed firstly,
towards efficiency in manufacture
and distribution; secondly, in the
introduction of novel lines of
quality and appeal beyond the
range produced by our competitors;
and thirdly in concentrated adver-
tising and sales campaigns.
The success of these efforts is
amply illustrated in the figures
now submitted to you. I think
special commendation is due to
Messrs... Edwin and R. M. Street,
to the General Manager, Mr. A. J.
Woodbury, to the Factory
Managers, and to the Production
and Sales Executives for their
untiring work in overcoming these
problems to our complete satisfac-
tion.
Some of our lines, particularly
Paddle Pops, were well received
by the public and provision had to
be made for additional space and
plant to meet the demand. This
was most pleasing to the Directors
having regard to all the attendant
circumstances and we are grateful
to our customers and to the public
for so tangibly rewarding our
efforts.
Such reciprocity gives us greater
enthusiasm to continue our policy
of seeking at all times to produce
attractive goods of maximum
quality at minimum prices and to
absorb increased costs wherever pos-
sible by greater volume in sales.
ISSUE OF SHARES.—PIans for
expansion involving buildings,
plant and motor transport are
budgeted to cost this year approxi-
E te Sr b £ p £Si‘
ffi £
to preserve liquid funds and bank
overdraft for working capital and
contingencies, the Directors decided
to obtain the required funds by
making an issue of 108,832 shares
°J £1 each at pm m the proportion
October to i9s6 Ur ed ° n the 22nd
The Directors feel that a con
sideration of past results and
future prospects justify a conclu-
sion that the existing dividend rate
can be maintained on the increased
capital, and they recommend stock-
holders to take up the additional
shares offered to them.
mSfs’T D MeareT and "Sorf
'}£“
Exchange.
current PROSPECTS.—Since
the lst July trading has been
satisfactory and given normal season-
able conditions we can expect further
improvements.
Cotee^fS
acdon between the States in regard
t Q basic wage adjustments, we must
expect increases in the cost of wages
1/^OfcSS
g°Kui bas%o STri!, “xp°o“ed a
smab area G f dds State within which
to e fj eC f sales. With proper attention
to the provision of skilled management
personnel and with our modern
factories capable of greatly increased
production, the Company has the
opportunity to extend its markets. By
tb j s means can absorb a large per-
centage of increased costs,
We hear a lot on the political front
about the benefits of greater produc-
tion as an offset to inflation. I agree
with this proposition subject to the
addendum that you must bave a
g rea ter volume of sales to absorb
increased costs without increasing the
price of the goods. This Company’s
operations have proved this conten-
bon, but of course it has been favour-
P laced m some respects
The manufacturer or producer has
Qnly tWQ courses available to to
absorb - grealer overhead without
mcreasmg prices. Either he must
introduce greater efficiency measures
in his production and distribution; or
be must obtain a volume of sales
which wilJ enable his plant to produce
tQ full capacity and s 0 reduce the
cost of the goods sold
My view on the inflation question is
that if these two principles were kept
foremost in the minds of ail in this
country we would have no need to
“freeze” wages, to increase taxes or
to j mpose j m port 0 rt and financial restric-
tions. xhese measures can only have
the effect of blunting the initiative
both of employer and employee alike
to the consequent detriment of the
national finances.
1 feel that a measure of inflation
a *°° d towards the pro-
gress of a young country and I hope
that a progressive selected migrant
policy will be continued to the fullest
possible extent. True it is that such a
&*L3g*glg£
da y tor some years, but surely tne long
term view should prevail having in
mind the ultimate benefits both in
production and consumption. Fortun-
ately we have the early American
%£***% a ? nZ
wa V O f life A Drecursor of cour"
p“pa?Ll foTork
to give back to our com-
mumty in effort as much or maybe
i ust a bttle more than we receive in
re " ards v, nt nf ailtftmatinn 3Ilf) tele
, The advent of automation and tele-
vision m this country will no doubt
revolutionise present practices in the
production and merchandising of
goods and services. In my view, they
justify the adoption of more courage-
ous national and domestic policies
tban tbe ap pij cat i on 0 f economic
sanctions which depress initiative and
have no long term benefit in the
development of our country,
Your Directors are watching these
new developments with keen interest
=•? it fe/elt that they wiU provide con-
Sl derable advantages to this Company
both in manufacturing operations and
in sales promotion,
We accordingly look forward to the
future with considerable interest and
f„Tma!S &e 'Se
of development of
mDP ™ nDC c , „• * , „
HIRLCTO S. Each Director his
g^ ards “fhe' 11 advancement 'of the
Company.
This is particularly so in the case
of Mr. Edwin Street as Managing
Director and Mr. R. M. Street as
Assistant M on Jhe
many demands upon these two execu-
tive Directors and the results reflect
great credit upon their work. We
are indeed fortunate that Mr. Edwin
Street’s interest and health remain
aremade upontof
CONCLUSION. — In concluding my
address, I wish to thank the Auditors
g* 'assistance,
assoc j ated with the Company whose
combined efforts have contributed to
another successful year. Particularly
would I mention the team spirit which
exists amongst the Executive Staff and
St qlK&t'fo'&irSor^*and
wi u be f ostere d and reciprocated in
every possible way.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Eagerly awaited by thousands of
women, the sun shone at Flemington on
Oaks Day and gave them the opportunity
to wear their summer ensembles. It
was the warmest and happiest day of the
racing carnival. The Governor remarked
to this Letter as he walked to the
committee-box, “Isn’t it wonderful!”
It certainly was wonderful. On the
fence of the members’ enclosure roses in
every color bloomed in profusion, and
they also bloomed in every color on the
gay picture-hats dotted over the lawn.
Smaller hats, too, were made of flowers,
and the large hats, particularly the new
tambourine shape, were swathed with
tulle or chiffon.
The sheath frock was mostly the choice
of the older women ; the young preferring
the waisted bodice and very full skirt.
Few black frocks were seen, and when
worn were topped with very gay hats.
The fabrics of the frocks were of printed
cotton, polished cotton and cottons with
a satin finish. There were pure silks,
silk-faille and surah, most of them
flower-printed. The muted prints were
popular, as were the plain pastel tones.
Lady Brooks looked charming in a
heavenly-blue sheer-wool frock, the waist-
line fairly high and the skirt cut in
graduating godets. Masses of tiny pastel
flowers trimmed her small white straw
hat, which featured an undulating brim.
Lady Fairley, of Shepparton, even had
flowers on her stockings. They were of
jet, and each tiny flower was centred
with diamente. Her draped frock was
of palest grey-blue silk embroidered with
blue, mauve and white flowers, which
matched the violets covering her small
grey straw toque. She was with Mrs.
L. J. Dooling and American visitor Mrs.
Jerome J. Potter.
Attracting a great deal of attention was
Julia, who stars in the Tivoli Olympic
Follies. She wore a frock of grey chiffon
with a wide swirling skirt in which was
a large spray of wattle. Her very large
picture-hat of grey chiffon was also
adorned with golden wattle. This was
the first time in her life Julia had ever
wora a hat.
Mrs. George Griffith chose a frock in
jade-green silk-shantung embroidered
with tiny clusters of white flowers. Her
white straw planter’s-hat was swathed
with green chiffon. Wearing a suit of
fine black silk-faille, Mrs. Richard Frank
topped it with a tambourine-hat of palest
pink and blue tulle, and it sparkled with
opalescent bead ornaments. Mrs. Philip
Dare’s hat was an eye-catching one of
swathed crimson satin, its brim laden
with very large matching roses.
Among the youthful enthusiasts at the
Oaks was Diane Simpson, who wore an
outstanding white pique ensemble, the
full skirt featuring a quilted hem. Her
very large, flat picture-hat was of
flounced white nylon. Another outstand-
ing ensemble was chosen by English
visitor Gillian Newton. Her white
cotton frock had a deep, full flounce of
black and white spots to match the puff-
sleeves of the bodice and her tiny hat.
Mrs. Geoffrey Brewer’s large hat was
rose-trimmed. From the crown the
stems and leaves were placed with the
lovely flowers just nodding over the
brim. Mrs. John Grantly Shelton’s wide-
brimmed red hat was adorned with roses,
shading from palest gold to pink. Very
pale-yellow roses wreathed the wide-
brimmed gold straw hat worn by Mrs.
D. J. S. Mackinnon with her jacket-suit
of deeper gold silk-shantung.
# # #
Alas, the fine weather ended as sud-
denly as it came, and women who went
to the V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield on
Saturday were forced to wear their trim
suits and raincoats and carry umbrellas.
Before the first race Mrs. Norman
Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C. chair-
man, entertained a large number of guests
at luncheon, including Mrs. Denis Allen
(Sydney), Lady Burston, Mr. R. V. Gove,
Mrs. Oscar Hammerstein (her emerald-
green off-the-face beret sporting a
fascinating eye-veil was worn with a
warm black coat), Mrs. Charles Parson,
of Sydney (who braved the weather wear-
ing a mink stole over her white black-
spotted honan-silk suit, topped with a
black tulle picture-hat), Mrs. J. Pitt,
Mrs. D. Wadley, Mrs. E. Wilson and
Susan Wilson.
Over 300 guests attended the late-after-
noon reception at Government House
given in honor of the Governor-General,
Sir William Slim, and Lady Slim, by the
Governor and Lady Brooks. In the
entrance-hall there were masses of
greenery and spring flowers ; the drawing-
room was a blaze of broom, arum-lilies,
roses, iris and watsonia, all from the
gardens of Government House. Lady
Slim’s dress of sapphire-blue pure-silk
had a full skirt and a fitted bodice finished
with a deep-V neckline, cut to the
shoulders. A double strand of pearls and
a diamond brooch were lovely accessories.
Lady Brooks wore a frock of deep-blue
silk-surah patterned in tiny white flower-
motifs. The bodice was finished with a
portrait-neckline, and the skirt was
straight and slim in front with fullness at
the back.
Mrs. Bolte, wife of the Premier, wore
an olive-green silk-taffeta frock with a
matching curvette finished with one pink
rose.
Other guests were Sir Clifden and Lady
Eager, the Archbishop of Melbourne and
Mrs. Booth, Air-Marshal Sir John
McCauley and Lady McCauley, Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. H. . Burrell, Sir
Sydney and Lady Rowell, the Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly and Mrs.
McDonald, Mr. and Mrs. John Bloom-
field, Mr. and Mrs. Ewart Chappie, Lord
and Lady Baillieu (her frock of silver-
grey corded-faille patterned in black),
Mrs. S. Baillieu Myer, Dr. Kenneth
McLean and Mrs. McLean, who were
accompanied by Mr. Alec McLean and
his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the dinner-dance at Ciro’s organised
by the youthful Wool Ball committee,
which works for the Ramsay Mailer
Opportunity Club, guests dined by
candlelight. They were received by the
president of the committee, Jane Hen-
nessey, who wore a short frock of black
shirred silk-taffeta, with the bodice featur-
ing a large bow finished with one large
pink rose. Nan Flower, the secretary,
chose a short frock of tangerine nylon-
velvet cut on Princess lines. Com-
mittee-member Margaret Atkinson wore
brown satin with a swathing, and sash of
pink tulle. Jacqueline Frith, whose father
was responsible for the gay and amusing
cartoons in the racing motif which were
part of the decorations, chose a full-skirted
frock with a long-torso bodice in electric-
blue crystal-organza. Sandra Glover’s
lovely frock was of pale-champagne
Chantilly-lace and featured a full
pleated skirt. Barbara Zinnow’s frock
and coat were of coffee-colored French-
lace. Margaret Mary Collins wore a
Princess-frock of white-spotted navy
cotton. Carolyn McCahon’s choice was
olive-green satin.
Mrs. Ted Doyle, wife of the chairman
of the press and publicity sub-committee,
will be hostess to many distinguished
overseas journalists during the next few
months. Mrs. Doyle, whose husband was
with the “Argus” for 30 years, finally as
managing-editor, is interested in Legacy
and R.S.L. activities, and is president of
the women’s auxiliary of the Emerald sub-
branch and for 14 years captain and
president of the Emerald Country Golf
Club. Photo by John Warlow.
To commemorate the centenary of the
first sitting of the Parliament of Victoria
under responsible government, Presi-
dent of the Legislative Council Sir
Clifden Eager and Speaker W. J. F.
McDonald, of the Legislative Assembly,
have invited many guests to a garden-
party at Parliament House on
November 21.
There was general satisfaction at the
news that Sir Dallas Brooks’s term as
Governor has been extended by a further
five years. As popular a Governor's lady
as Victoria has had, Lady Brooks’s in-
terest in a legion of organisations, with a
particularly keen interest in those con-
cerning children, is well known. Lady
Brooks will be hostess to H.R.H. the
Duke of Edinburgh when he visits this
city for the Olympic Games.
CANBERRA
Colorful national frocking worn by
wives of foreign, diplomats caught the
eye at the late-afternoon reception given
at the Indonesian Embassy by the newly-
arrived Ambassador, Dr. A. Y. Helmi,
and Mrs. Helmi. The party was a warm,
friendly gathering and conversation
centred on the Olympic Games, where
most of the diplomats will support their
countries’ athletes on the opening day.
The hostess wore traditional dress, the
straight slim skirt topped by a jade-satin
free-form blouse studded with rhinestones.
Distinguished guests included Dame
Pattie Menzies ; the Minister for Labor
and National Service, Mr. Harold Holt;
official secretary to the Governor-
General, Mr. M. L. Tyrrell, and Mrs.
Tyrrell ; Sir Allen Brown, secretary of
the Prime Minister’s Department, and
Lady Brown. Among the diplomats noted
were the new High Commissioner for
India, Mr. P. A. Menon, and his attractive
wife, who wore a vivid green-and-gold
sari; the Minister for Italy, Signor Silvio
Daneo, and Signora just back from
abroad; the High Commissioner for
Ceylon, Mr. P. R. Gunasekara, and
Madame Gunasekara, her sari in deep
red silk embroidered with gold thread;
the Ambassador for Japan, Mr. T.
Suzuki, and Mrs. Suzuki, whose kimono
was of colorful brocade ; the American
Charge d’Affaires, Mr. Avery Peterson,
and Mrs. Peterson ; the Acting High Com-
missioner for U.K. and Mrs. G. W. Tory ;
and the Charge d’Affaires for Brazil and
Senhora Deseta, who described her
glamorous hat as a Pistache “ice-cream”
model.
TALKS ON ARID AREAS
[By Charles Meeking]
vyHILE a professor’s alleged love-life
and a Ministerial reshuffle were
engaging the attention of the newspapers,
a group of world-renowned scientists was
sitting in conference in Canberra, engaged
in discussions which got a minimum of
publicity but which may have far-reaching
effects on Australia and many other
countries.
The Unesco symposium on arid areas
had some unusual features. The delegates
sat in a large hollow square in the main
hall of Canberra University College, with
a microphone, earphones and a light on
each individual desk, and a not-quite-
soundproof box with window in the
corner for the official interpreters. (The
services of the Russian interpreter were
not required—the two Russian delegates,
travelling on a foreign airline, found
themselves stranded in Djakarta by a
petrol strike, and were reported as likely
to arrive in time for the final dinner of
the conference in Melbourne, more than
a week late.) The chairman, closing the
symposium, praised the interpreters, and
said they were “so good they sometimes
finished before the speaker.”
The chairman was Dr. C. W. Thorne-
thwaite, of the Drexel Institute, Elmer,
N.J., United States, whose slow American
drawl concealed a lively appreciation of
the questions discussed and the scientific
personalities behind them. He thanked
C.5.1.R.0. for the arrangements and
Unesco for making the symposium pos-
sible. The experts of the world, he said,
had discussed climatology, and the inter-
action between climate and plants and
people, in a manner that had produced
distilled wisdom.
The prepared papers and the discussions
on them had been of enormous value.
The meeting had enabled overseas dele-
gates to become acquainted with the great
amount of valuable scientific work being
done in Australia.
There will be no immediate results from
the arguments thrown into the hollow
square on most of the topics. The
theses advanced and the counter-argu-
ments will be taken away by men who
have devoted the whole of their working
lives to the problems of deserts, and in a
year or two or more some answers will
emerge which will help to change living
and working conditions in many parts of
Australia and elsewhere.
One subject of continuing and
crucial importance to Australia which was
discussed was rainmaking. Dr. Ted
Bowen, of-the Radio-physics Division of
C.5.1.R.0., contributed a paper to the
“blue-book” of the conference on the
subject. It described briefly the experi-
ments now in progress in the Snowy
Mountains, and then proceeded to evalu-
ate them in terms of arid areas in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere in the world.
Bowen said that if it were established
that significant increases in rainfall could
be achieved in regions. like the Snowy
Mountains, where opportunities for
artificial modification of rainfall were
comparatively high, it could “almost
certainly” be said that the percentage
increase in rainfall would become smaller
as the experiments were moved in the
direction of the more arid regions of
Australia. The reason was simple—the
number of opportunities for seeding
clouds (with silver-iodide) would become
progressively reduced, and would become
very small as the rainfall approached
zero.
But then he proceeded to show how arid
regions could still be helped by “artificial”
rainfall.
Some of these arid regions, he said,
depended for their water-supplies on
rivers which had their source in high-rain-
fall areas. There was often considerable
loss of water from the rivers by water-
utilisation (including irrigation) and
evaporation. Under these conditions a
10 per cent, increase in precipitation at
the source might represent a 100 per cent,
increase in the flow near the end-point.
“There is considerable hope, therefore,
of increasing the available water in these
regions by seeding at comparatively dis-
tant points.... where opportunities
might be more frequent.”
For some crops grown in arid areas,
Dr. Bowen said, a comparatively small
quantity of rain “at the right time” could
lead to a disproportionate increase in
yield. Wheat was one example of a crop
which was very sensitive to the amount of
rain which fell during the germinating
period. A quarter of an inch of rain at
the time could make all the difference
between success and failure. It was
possible, therefore, that rainmaking
operations during a very restricted period
of the year in such regions might yield
very valuable results.
Dr. Bowen agreed that there would
always be arid areas in which it would be
difficult or impossible to augment the
rainfall by artificial means. The deserts
of central and western Australia, he said,
might come into this category. There
were other areas, however, depending
very much on their geographical situa-
tion, in which the techniques of rain-
making could be exploited. For example,
the air in the first 10,000 ft. over Arizona,
U.S.A., was among the driest in the
United Stataes. Yet in summer it was
frequently overlaid by tropical air which
had its origin in the Caribbean, and
carried more water than in any other part
of the United States.
“If this moisture could be induced to
precipitate out,” said Bown, “it might
make a profound difference to the summer
rainfall of the south-western States ot
the U.S.A.”
The American experts who attended the
symposium have not overlooked this
point. They know, as Bowen warned,
that charlatans and others have been
trying to get into the rainmaking business.
Any action taken as a result of the
Unesco talks in Canberra will be strictly
on a scientific basis until results are con-
firmed or otherwise.


For Your
EUROPEAN TOUR
new and used cars for sale with
repurchase price guaranteed, or
rental at advantageous terms.
FAIRWAY MOTORS LTD.,
Southampton, England.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
ffj'iya
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERK
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO
(Dept. 3Z), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STUART JAMES FOREMAN late
of Bradfield Park his present whereabouts
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that GRACE
FOREMAN has filed Petition No. 3503 of
1956 praying for a Divorce from you on
the ground of Desertion for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 9th day of January 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MR. JOHN SIDNEY
HEANEY, Solicitor for the Petitioner, 66
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WALLACE JEFFERY RUSSELL late
of 4 St. Ann Street Merrylands.—TAKE
NOTICE that PATRICIA DAWN
RUSSELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3006 of 1966 on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse and habitual
drunkenness and cruelty during three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may file an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 29th of January
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from LESLIE RUNDLE,
Solicitor, 66 King Street, Sydney—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
LYSAGHT
UTILITY
SHED
£ 73
PRICE F.O.R.
NEWCASTLE
i wmm
mm
L," • «
iSsM
Makes an ideal storage shed or workshop
roomy enough to accommodate a car
or tractor. Easily assembled by any handy
man! Basic unit includes . . .
• Predrilled support angles and bolts.
• Wall and roof sheets of curved design ,
eliminating need for framework.
• Back wall sheets and flashing.
SPECIFICATION: Length, 20 ft. Width, 10 ft
Minimum Head Room, 6ft. 6ins.
Maximum Head Room, 8 ft.
EXTRAS AVAILABLE—ALL PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Barge boards, £3/10/-.
Side Door
(5'2" x I'9" opening),
£4.
Window frame
without glass (approx.
3' x 2'), £3/15/-.
t Write for further information and Agents' Names to: —
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght I Australia) Pty. Ltd. In
all Capital Cities.
SUNDPY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Chinese Theatre
To the accompaniment of a
clanging, twanging and clicking
music, the members of the
Chinese Classical Theatre
Company at Sydney Tiv. did
such extraordinary things in
the way of dancing, mime and
acrobatics that the evening might
have been called a fast boat to
China.
When one got over the first
impact of the rich and brilliant
detail Qf the costumes —and the
six - foot golden - pheasant
feathers that dipped and swayed
on the heads of the principals
in “The Military Court” so
that the dancers looked like two
fantastically colored mating
insects —it was possible to realise
that hands can overcome most
linguistic barriers —when the
beautiful woman general pleaded
for the life of her husband her
voice had a mysterious felinity
which made it impossible to
know whether she was in love,
anger or agony, but her hands,
tiny, graceful and articulate, left
nothing to the imagination.
Likewise, there was no need
for anyone to say anything—and
they didn’t in “Where Three
Roads Meet,” when the landlord
of the inn sneaks into the officer’s
room in the dark with the inten-
tion of doing him in and the pair
of them fight it out for fifteen
minutes or more in the imaginary
darkness of the lighted stage,
leaping, twisting and lunging,
and slashing with their swords
at the sound of a breath or the
swish of a blade. It seemed
remarkable that such an act
could have gone on for so long
without palling, but go it did,
largely because of the mixture of
comedy and acrobatics of the
actor who played the landlord.
Another perfect little comedy
without words concerns a young
lady hailing an old boatman and
stepping aboard his boat. Playing
it out on a bare stage the two
performers bobbed and circled
and staggered with such
meticulous detail and timing as
the imaginary boat lurched and
twisted in the imaginary river
that one almost leaned over the
side of the seat with imaginary
seasickness.
The spectacle of the opening
performance the programme
varies every night —was the
“Dance of the Scarves,” with a
dozen or more cat-footed dancers
twirling and swishing 12ft. red-
silk scarves so that the stage
seemed alive with great scarlet
snakes contorting themselves in
and out of a fantastic variety
of circles, bows and squiggles—
what one might call the last word
in doodling on a grand scale.
The last item on the pro-
gramme told how General Meng
Hai-Kung and his soldiers chased
General Ho Tien-lung and his
troops up Yentang Mountain
and licked the pants off them —
all of it a furious moving pattern
of blue and gold and culminating
in such a whirlwind display of
acrobatics that one would not
have been very surprised on
going out of the Tiv. if the
entire population of Campbell-
street had suddenly emerged and
gone cartwheeling and somer-
saulting away into the night.
*
Heinze and Lateiner
Bernard Heinze conducted the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra in
two symphonies poles apart in
style and treatment: the little
D Minor of Schubert and the
Eighth of Vaughan Williams.
The D Minor was composed
in the year—Schubert’s 18th —
which also saw the birth of his
first masterpiece of the lied,
“Gretchen Am Spinnrade,” but
there is a tremendous artistic
difference between the two. With
his song Schubert was com-
pletely original—it was the first
expression of an art of which
he was to become the master.
The symphony* was slight and
tenuous and owed much to the
Haydn-Mozart influence ; but it
has a fresh lyricism and strong
rhythmic material attributes
brought out to advantage by an
orchestra which found ready
affinity with the work’s fragrant
charm.
The Vaughan Williams —in its
initial Sydney airing—proved to
be less profound than his
“Pastoral” and “London”
symphonies, though with a fair
enough meed of dramatic
urgency. In the first movement
the prevailing mood of mysti-
cism was the better conjured by
the unusual use of a vibro-
phone.
Easily the best parts of the
symphony —the product of the
composer’s 83rd year—are the
scherzo, with the wind-instru-
ments handling the near-martial
material, and the “song”-section
for strings, in which the cellos
excelled. The finale was a tour
de force, with the orchestral
tuttis of full symphonic stature
and immense vigor.
American pianist Jacob
Lateiner was the soloist in the
Tschaikowsky Piano Concerto,
which he attacked from the start
in the grand manner. One could
almost forget, in his treatment
of the majestic opening theme,
that it once had its innards ripped
out for the hit-paraders under
three separate titles.
The tender, lyrical, middle-
section was played with capti-
vating delicacy and phrasing.
The third movement is a
virtuoso’s war - horse which
Lateiner mounted gleefully and
rode out the storms and vigors
and unashamed bombast, not
letting up till he flashed past the
last frantic notes, whip and spurs
still going. It was certainly
exhilarating playing.
*t* -»jt-
Sydney Sinfonietta
There was something for
everybody in the concert given
by this ensemble, which consisted
of five of the principal wind-
players of the Sydney Symphony
“ Don't you know you shouldn't cross the line to pass me ?”
Orchestra, plus pianist Joyce
Hutchinson.
There was, for instance, a
Hindemith Quintet, full of
squeaks, honks, toots, blurts and
snorts, saying very little and
saying it as tortuously as possible.
There were three pieces by
Jacques Ibert —short, concen-
trated expositions of agony in
sound. A Quintet for horn and
four woodwinds by Reicha was
more palatable, with its structural
details etched-in neatly.
A very attractive work was
a Telemann Sonata of flute, oboe
and piano, played in polished
style, Beethoven’s Quintet for
four wind-instruments and piano,
genial and rhythmical, could
have been treated with less
meticulous care and more
exuberance.
The five wind-players were lan
Wilson (oboe), Colin Evans
(flute), Gabor Reeves (clarinet),
Alan Mann (horn), and Ray
Mating (bassoon).
Artbursts
John Brack
John Brack, who has set him-
self the task of satirising society
with his pen and pencil, has this
year selected the racehorse, its
owner, its trainer, the boy who
sits on its back, the punter who
puts his money on it, and the
raucous individual who makes
a fortune out of it by hanging
a bag around his *neck and
allowing the public to put
money in it.
The results, shown at the Peter
Bray Gallery in Melbourne, are
amusing enough in a limited
sense. Everybody wears the
same dumb frightened look. The
little jockey, conferring with his
huge employer before the race,
looks as grim as the trainer, and
the books look as hard and
inhuman as the punters. Even
that noble friend of man, the
horse, looks dumb and
frightened and physically has all
the equine quality of a hat-rack.
Mr. Brack, it seems, has only
observed one aspect of human
nature or else he lacks
the artistic skill to put his
message over. He hasn’t any of
the skill of Hogarth, who was
capable of expressing all the
feelings he had. Mr. Brack s
angular line is incapable of
expressing anything but the
one mood, and if he felt any
sympathy for his subject-matter
in his racecourse series he hasn’t
expressed it. He needs to learn
a lot more about painting before
he can push his observation
further. As things are, however,
he remains a very quaint
cartoonist.
♦> ❖ ♦$
Everything in Melbourne is
Olympian these days, including
Vernon Jones’s Olympic Year
Exhibition of Paintings at the
Athenaeum. There is nothing
Olympian about his pictures,
however. His portraits of
Group-Captain Ted Fyfe in his
flying-clothes and of Jack Purtell
in his riding raiment, his peonies
and daffodils and his views in
the Flinders Ranges all belong
to the academic tradition.
Talkies
“Rebel Without a Cause”
(Sydney Regent): Story of a
delinquent youth drifting rather
than rushing into delinquency
and getting no help from his
wrangling parents. James Dean
mixes dramatic outbursts with a
desperate striving to express his
need for guidance and under-
standing. The story, centred
around the viciousness in colleges
among youths from broken
homes, has a starkness and
power comparable with that of
“The Blackboard Jungle”.
“The Ship that Died of Shame”
(Sydney Embassy): The skipper
of a British M.T.B. and his No. 1
go into partnership after the war,
buy the craft and engage in some
smuggling across the Channel.
Then his No. 1, who runs the
business side of the venture, gives
transport to an escaping
murderer and becomes involved
in a further murder himself. It
is then that the boat takes a hand
and, by strange doings in a
storm, resolves the problem of
the uneasy skipper. A fair degree
of excitement and a good
performance from Richard
Attenborough.
“That Certain Feeling” (Syd-
ney Prince Edward): Bob Hope
has only a hatful of wisecracks
between himself and a flop in
this rather tedious piece about
a top-ranking cartoonist who
uses him as a “ghost” to do his
comic-strip. Eva Marie Saint, as
Bob’s ex-wife and the cartoonist’s
private-sec.-cwm-bride-elect, fits
in neatly, and George Sanders
cocks snooty looks as the black-
and-white tycoon.


The
Wall
By JACK LUSBY
THEY reckoned it was the
wettest winter for eighty
years, and all the bleak
misery of it was in the
ganger’s face.
Narrow, sharp-nosed and thin-
lipped, the ganger’s face, with
the look of weathered stone.
Stone came easily to mind.
Chuck, Darkie and I were
handling great mud-greasy hunks
of it.
The retaining-wall had to go
up before this section of the
crumbling cliff-road was washed
clear into the sea. Water ran
across it in the growing gutters,
cascaded to a ledge below the
lip of the cliff and ricocheted
off into the rain. If you cared
to look down over the ledge you
saw the slow heave and crash of
the rollers a couple of hundred
feet below. Spray hung white
and lazy in the rain around the
bottom of the cliff.
Working here on the high
snout of the headland, sea and
sky seemed to be all around and
you forgot the sweep of red-
tiled suburbs and the city in
behind you. We felt a bit like
battered seagulls clinging to the
cliff.
Our wall had to rise from the
ledge to road-level about nine-
feet above. It had to slope back
snug against the cliff properly to
support the road. To make it we
had truckloads of big rough-
squared rocks dumped on top
along the road.
Some of these rocks took three
of us to hoist them on one end
and roll them over. “If I don’t
bust me guts liftin’ these bricks,”
Darkie said, hunching bony
shoulders against the rain and
getting a smoke going, “I’ll bust
’em laughin’ at the ganger’s jokes.
Get onto ’im!”
The ganger was propped
against the rockpile on the road,
staring over and beyond us at
the sea. High, hard cheekbones,
slate-grey eyes. Rain dripped
from bat and waterproofs. A
rule and spirit-level hung from
a lax, hard hand. Straightened
up, he was a stringy six-feet. He
straightened up now and looked
at his watch.
“You Darkie, is it?
take a bucket back into one of
the houses. Take the tea. See
if they’ll boil you some water.”
Darkie grinned. Anything was
a pleasure after shifting these
stones around.
’UHE sheltered for smoke-oh in
TT the garage of a half-built
block of flats.
“She’s cornin’ down heavy,”
Darkie said hopefully.
“Overseer might turn up,” the
ganger countered. “Want him
to see something done. What’s
your name?”
Darkie told him and he put
it on the time-sheet.
“Yours?” he said to me.
“Snow Harris.”
“What’s the proper initial?”
I told him.
“Chuck Lestrange,” Chuck
said in his turn. “Chuck for
Charlie.”
The ganger looked at him with
a flicker of interest, flogging
his memory. .
The three of us had started
that Monday morning, and
according to Darkie we’d been
slung as newcomers to the
dumbest ganger on the lousiest
job.
“Any fighters in your family?”
the ganger said finally.
“Only me,” Chuck said.
“Away back.”
He was short and wiry with a
battered brown face’ and thick
grey hair. His nose was a short
flat zigzag and there were
thickened folds over his eyes.
The ganger looked at all this.
“Was it you fought Harrigan
out here about eighteen or
twenty year ago?”
“Sure did,” Chuck said, but he
seemed a bit embarrassed.
“Thought so,” the ganger said.
“I saw that fight.”
“Jeez!” said Darkie. “The
blokes you meet on these gangs!
Twenty year ago—l was six-year-
old then! ”
I wasn’t too young to
remember Chuck Lestrange. The
name rang a loud bell. Turned
out he’d come to Australia again
in the Jap war and stayed on.
I guessed he was on the council-
gang to get him over a rough
patch ; like me.
We rinsed the bucket and
mugs and slopped back to the
job. Chuck walked with little
mincing steps like a firewalker
who was feeling it.
Darkie was up on top screwing
the blocks about, working the
better-shaped ones right to the
edge. There was a slither of
sound and a shower of clods
down around where Chuck
and I were working on the
footing
“Jump, Snow!” from Darkie.
A hundredweight -block
thum p e d where I’d been,
teetered for a moment, then
went on down. It seemed
seconds later, above the sound
of rain and running water, we
heard it hit the sea.
“Now that was footwork!”
Chuck said to me. Above,
Darkie’s face flushed red with
relief.
The ganger jerked to life like
a puppet at the sound of an
engine toiling up the headland
road. Before the overseer’s ute
stopped he was the live-wire
ganger, sparks and all.
“Everything all right, Coxie?”
The overseer got a word in ; a
big, well-nourished calm bloke
in open-necked sports-shirt and
neat grey slacks, holding an
umbrella.
“Yeah, she’s right,” the
ganger said.
“Awkward spot to work.”
“I’m keeping a sharp eye on
it. Nothing to worry about.”
“Need another man?”
“Might be able to use one
more. No room to work with
too many.”
“Goddammit,” Chuck mut-
tered, “we could use a ball-
team ! ”
“Nothing to worry about,” I
said. “He’s keeping a sharp eye
on it!”
IyEXT morning saw Chuck and
1 ” Darkie and me in a truck
headed for the job.
We were packed in among
Italians. They laughed, sang,
and a couple of them did a
shuffling step-dance on the
greasy, bouncing deck of the
truck.
“Easy seen they’re not on our
job,” I said, feeling yesterday’s
stiffness and soreness. But one
of them stayed aboard till we
reached the cliff-top.
“You with us?” I asked.
“Si. Da overseer”
“Tony you’re right wel-
come,” Chuck told him. He was
a husky bloke, and when I
lowered a bag of cement from
the truck he humped it smartly
to the garage and was back for
more. Bags of cement aren’t
chickenfeed.
The truck rumbled away and
the ganger drove up.
“New man,” I said, nodding
towards Tony, who stood by the
big stones at the ready. The
ganger showed no pleasure at
our 25 per cent, increase in
strength. In fact he didn’t show
anything. Handed me a key.
“Better get the tools out.”
The tool-box beside the road
was about the size of a piano-
case and contained picks,
shovels, sledgehammers and the
ganger’s marks of ofiice —spirit-
level and folding-rule. Muscle-
busting machinery, Chuck called
it. Made you tired just to look
in the box.
“Well, what about a bit of
yo-heave-ho!” said Darkie—
with spitting -on - hands and
sleeve-rolling gestures for the
ganger’s benefit and to get under
our skins—a humorist, Darkie.
“Look! ” Tony exclaimed,
down on the ledge. He pointed
a finger to within a few inches
of a fat black funnel-web spider.
Chuck got it with a mattock.
“You gotta watch the wild-life
around here,” he said.
“Too bloody right! ” from
Darkie. “Those fellers’ll kill ya.
I’m brushin’ ’em off me hands
along here!” —darting a glance
up at the ganger. ,
Standing on the road-edge
above them I’d been staring at
something where a little creek
had cut a gutter down the bank.
“Some more wild-life here,” I
said.
It was quite a big freshwater
yabbie, washed from some-
where, making his way back
upstream. Blue-green, shiny,
crab-claws spread wide, about
Bin. long. A little armor-plated
job in jungle paint. His battle
against what to him was a
deluge had something heroic in
it. Even the ganger showed
some interest.
Tony leaped forward and
made a murderous swing with a
mattock, which the crayfish saw
coming and dodged. On a pro-
truding rock it turned like
lightning, reared and raised its
claws in defiance.
Tony leaped back in astonish-
ment. “Me killa him!” he
shrieked excitedly and aimed
again with the mattock.
“No, Tony!”
“Leave him alone, Tony!”
“Fair go!”
“No killa him?” Tony hesi-
tated, still with a murderous
grip on the mattock.
“Back to work,” the ganger
said with an edge in his voice.
At smoke-oh a truck dumped
some gravel and sand, and the
driver drank tea with us.
The ganger got him aside, and
I caught, “Don’t care where you
take him!” and the driver’s
“Joe might have a job for him.”
“Go with the truck, Tony,”
the ganger said a few minutes
later.
Reduced again to three, we
went back to work. Darkie was
really upset for once.
“Wouldn’t that rip y’r guts
out!” he spluttered. “Gets a
new man and a good hand and
hoists him! Bet he sacked him
to show he’s still got a say! The
cow’s crazy! What d’ you
reckon, Chuck?”
“Me? I figure it’s just
kindness -to - crayfish week,”
Chuck replied.
I pondered this for a moment.
A shrewd stab in the dark.
“When’s kindness - to - coolie
week?” I asked.
TVrEXT morning we were wait-
ing in the council-yard for
transport.
Raining as usual. The first
trucks away splathered mud
about as they pulled out with
the gangs scrambling aboard.
We were cold, damp, stiff, sore
and pretty short of zest.
Across the yard a man carried
a coke-fire in a can and set it
down under a galvanised-iron
shelter. He wandered into a


New INTERNATIONAL
I
have reserve load-carrying capacity!
Rugged trucks with stronger
chassis and springs, axles and
transmissions proved on
“Trial by Torture”, offer
reserve capacity to handle
the tough jobs.
i
International AS-160
Truckmen’s choice for more USABLE horsepower,
easy handling and cab comfort!
Reserve Capacity!
If your job calls for reliable medium-heavy duty trucks, see
the International AS-160, 161 and 162 each model
equipped to match a different transport-task.
Usable Horsepower!
It’s the usable horsepower for heavy duty work that counts
—power developed at lower, economical engine speeds. The
new Australian Black Diamond ABD-240 engine fitted to
the International AS-160 and AS-161 develops maximum
brake H.P. of 131 at 3,800 R.P.M. Maximum torque is
208.5 lbs. ft. at 2,000 R.P.M.
The International AS-162 trucks use the ABD-264 engine
—developing 140 max. B.H.P- at 3,800 R.P.M. Maximum
torque is 234 lb. ft. at 2,000 R.P.M.
More Comfort!
Operator-designed Comfo-Vision cabs with sweep-sight
curved windscreen are the roomiest on the road. Drivers
can really relax, work longer without fatigue.
&
AS-162 with semi-trailer attachment.
AS-161 with tray body.
I.H. Dealers for sales and service in all important centres.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ALL-TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY!
FMT-739/36
shed, returned with an armload
of bright new pick-handles and
laid them near the fire. He put
a branding-iron in the fire,
hitched a box up close and made
himself comfortable on it. Lit
a cigarette and relaxed while
the iron heated.
In due course he pulled the
iron out, dragged a pick-handle
over by the heel of his boot and
stamped the council-brand on
it. He did this to three pick-
handles, then put the iron back
in the fire and relaxed again.
He saw us, waved a hand and
grinned widely. He jerked a
thumb happily at the shed
behind him and shouted,
“T’ousand-a-peek-a-handle! No
more work!”
Yes, it was Tony.
The truck was getting a snarl
in its honk. It took us away.
“Naturally,” Chuck said, “if
the central heating makes Tony
dry or he wants to stretch his
legs the hotel’s right handy.
He’s one smart operator. Won’t
surprise me, Darkie, if you wind
up takin’ orders from Tony!”
The ganger was on the job,
animated as a tumble-down
tombstone. But the first sound
of the overseer’s ute jolted him
into action. He strode about
like Errol Flynn directing a
siege. He fired so many orders
we each had several to choose
from.
Chuck lost his footing, took
a hard crack on a shinbone and
hopped around snorting brim-
stone. Unable to cope alone
with the rock we’d been handling
I stood back waiting for Chuck
to recover.
The ganger left the overseer’s
side and leaped nimbly into the
breach. He got his hands well
under the rock and swivelled it
violently, preparatory to doing
something heroic with it.
Came a curse like a whip-
crack and the ganger crunched
his hand between his knees in
purple-faced silence. Then he
regained the roadway, wrapped
a reddening handkerchief round
the damage and headed for the
first-aid box. The overseer went
along with him.
We all knew what those fingers
felt like. But I felt pretty much
like Darkie, who sat down, held
his head in his hands and nearly
shook himself to bits laughing
inside. Putting that block per-
fectly in position before the
ganger and overseer returned
was the first willing effort we’d
made that day.
“Well, we’re gettin’ a stake in
this wall,” Chuck said, still
caressing his lacerated shin.
“Blood, sweat, tears —like those
fellers that built the Pyramids.”
“But there was more than
three men on that gang! ” Darkie
emphasised the unfairness of the
comparison.
“That’s right, Darkie,” I said.
“They weren’t in our class. Had
dry weather for the job, too.”
“Wonder how Tony’s getting
on—all by himself in there?”
“Probably got a sheila from
the office sitting beside him with
a comptometer, counting the
pick-handles.”
“Yeah —bet he’s done a dozen
of ’em by now.”
“He’s a queer Itie —coming
on this gang first, and now on his
lonesome. All the,other Ities like
to bunch-up together. Clanny,”
“Maybe back in Italy he was
a ganger or Mafia-agent or hang-
man or something,” Chuck said
finally.
TTIS hand bandaged, the ganger
seemed to have regained his
normal degree of stark, staring
despair. The overseer had gone
and it was smoke-oh time. Darkie
found one of the ganger’s soft
spots —past triumphs—and was
hammering it to pulp.
. “S’pose you’ve done plenty of
walls.”
“Yeah—walls are me trade.”
“I hear y’r dad was a champ
on walls —sea-walls and that.”
“Best they ever saw round
here. Taught me the game when
I was a kid.”
“Thought y’ must’ve done a lot
of it. That wall at Warribah
beach took some doing, eh?”
“Yeah. One of my old jobs.
She’ll never shift.”
“Must be a bit tricky workin’
in the surf.”
“Can be. My old man got
drowned at it. Nearly got
drowned meself on the Warribah
wall.”
“Go on, eh?”
“Yeah. But when she was
finished the engineers came and
took photos to shoot around,
Said they couldn’t understand
how I’d managed her. Had them
beat.”
“Ah, well, walls are y'r trade.”
The ganger was practically
babbling There was a hint of
sworn his’btood was circulating 6
Darkfe UllgetOIl! ImUtteredt °
D him go< don-t it,”
As usual on these occasions
the ganger became almost garru-
lous, then clam-shelled back into
himself.
The wall was quite high now,
ani we regarded it with a mix-
ture of hate and satisfaction. At
its base on the narrow ledge we
had to chuck a few rocks
together for a ramp to work on.
In places we could lower blocks
into position from the roadway
above.
We were waiting for a few
hours’ fine weather to consoli-
date the thing with a sand-
cement-gravel mixture. Without
this a real cloudburst could still
undermine our efforts and send
the wall crashing into the sea.
“And boy—would that scare
the fish! ” Darkie commented.
But apart from smoke-ohs and
lunch-breaks tempers were pretty
raw. We could have left the
job and been paid-off any time,
but for some reason we couldn’t
understand we’d become slaves
of the wall. We resented this,
cursed, bickered, and worked
harder than before.
We withdrew into ourselves
and there was less talk. We got
to know the blocks of stone as
individuals ; we could look at the
dull grey sea and drifting spray
far below as though looking at
linoleum on the floor. When
long lines of gulls moved north-
ward like pearls strung on the
sea each afternoon we knew it
was close to knock-off time.
Rain, mud, sweat and raw skin
became just one dull ingrained
discomfort. The ganger was a
anotter *5? StTVUB
a Tek
our lifetime on the wall.
CUN shone and sea and sky
were blue. The job was
within cooee of completion.
We were toiling with gravel,
sand and cement, mixing con-
crete to fill gaps between the
stones, fill the weak spots and
make the wall solid before any
strain came on it. Above the
wall beside the road there was
still a stack of surplus blocks and
we were going to shift them
later. They formed a precarious
pile and hung there like a
threat.
The overseer’s ute came down
the road and pulled up just past
the pile of rocks.
“Better come and get your
pay,” the ganger shouted.
We straightened our backs and
all walked along to the near side
of the ute. The pay-bloke sat
inside beside the overseer with
the box of pay-envelopes—ours
and other gangs’—on his lap. The
ganger leaned against a front
mudguard.
“Sign here,” said the pay-
bloke, and I fumbled stiffly with
the stub of pencil.
From the roadside behind us
came a terrific reverberating
crash and we jumped like shot
rabbits ; jumped and turned
towards the noise.
“What the bloody hell
shouted the oversepr, leaning
across the pay-bloke in the
truck.
Nearly half the surplus rock-
P|le had disappeared trom s.ghk
° ne block was still rolling and
a crowbar bounced on the road.
The VbloW shriek nearly
jumped again*" "“H* “
cold.
, frnm nf thf> rahin
j onv _ ?—had reached in
, Grabbed one end of the pay-
B a „d was Trenching
desperately. In his free hand he
bad a little gun.
’ ‘
tN our S pU t _ secolM i c f stunned
1 silence T belted the pay _
bloke Qn the hand with the gun>
yanked the box free and flashed
from • ht Then j beard him
runn j ng on the road.
j be ganger, Darkie and Chuck
were runn j ng j found that I
was runn i n g.
\y e went Rugby forwards
rac j ng f or the ball and our
language scorched the air ahead
like a flame-thrower.
Tony replied with a couple of
unimportant-sounding pops.
Then the whole four of us
were picking ourselves off the
top of him.
Darkie also picked up the
little pistol a Beret ta. “Wish there
was more of ’em! ” he snarled.
“I don’t feel finished yet.”
You said it. Chuck ground
his teeth in frustration and
rubbed skinned knuckles,
We were still simmering with
fury when the overseer walked
up, a bit groggy and feeling the
back of his head. The pay-bloke
was blowing on a battered hand,
He retrieved the box and some
scattered envelopes. He pulled
a gun from a compartment in the
b °k
Lot of use this was, he said
to the overseer Way you fell
aerms me I couldn t get at t.
■ By:tolook ol tot feller on
said. “Gawd, My
Tony groaned and stirred, and
X'TSbte more
anaesthetic,
“Must have picked on this
place because of the small gang,”
the overseer was saying. “And
because it’s a bit out of the way.
Probably fixed those rocks last
night so they’d topple easy.”
“’Struth!” the pay-bloke said,
“You fellers are still breathin’
fire! Loo k at ’em bunched
together there like four of their
own bricks. What’s got into
you?”
“Well, they did a hell of a fine
job,” the overseer said, but he,
too, looked puzzled. “You could
have been shot, you know,” he
went on. “He’d have been
picked up anyway—and I dunno
if the pay was all that
important.”
“Pay !” The word surprised
us. “What’s that got to do with
it? He busted our bloody wall!”
The ganger, Darkie, Chuck
and I stared at one another,
startled, for a moment,
Ten-minutes later we were still
laughing like lunatics.


FERRIS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£235,000
(MAIN TRADING
SUBSIDIARY
FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.)
Issue at Par (£5O)
of £50,000
Registered Deposits
(RANKING BEFORE SHARE CAPITAL)
bearing interest at the rate of
participating
up to
WfINNV
H3d
CURRENCY 7 YEARS
Each £5O Deposit backed by assets of £l4o—a sound
investment in an expanding company,
Additional working capital is required to finance the manufacture
of Ferris Television Receivers, Channel Master Television Aerials,
spare accessories and component parts.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of application for regis-
tered deposits may be obtained from:—
The Secretary, FERRIS INDUSTRIES LTD.,
752 Pittwater Road, Brookvale. XW0221.
A. D. Meares and Bishop, Brokers for the Issue,
126 Phillip Street, Sydney. 8W4145.
Any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
This announcement is abridged and does not fully conform to the
requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936. Applications for
Registered Deposits will be received only on one of the Forms of
Application referred to and endorsed upon the printed copy of the
Men in Wool
the jackeroo
• •
. . the apprentice to the grazing industry, the embryo station
manager and perhaps, some day, grower of his own wool.
Bob (we’ll call him Wilks) started that way on a 400,000 acre
station on the Darling, when the river fleet paddled the wool down
to Morgan, returning with decks stacked high with station
merchandise from fencing wire to stud rams from Bungaree.
Bob later drew a 20,000 acre treeless western plain, long denuded
by rabbits and by lopping for starving sheep. He collected
Mulga seed, raised 10,000 young trees, plan ted. them all over his
paddocks, shut up areas to regenerate herbage, cleared rabbits,
and, after ten years in partnership, Bob and Nature are growing
one of the best clips in the west.
Dalgetys is proud to have been able to help Bob in his outstanding
achievement.
MMalg&iys
Always Dependable
THE MAN
WITH THE MOON
By PETER ENGLAND
A S the short New Guinea
dusk deepened into night
we crossed a small stream.
My boots had been
squelching mud and water over
the last ten miles, so it didn’t
matter, but on the far side I
pulled up and dropped my Owen-
gun and, other equipment along-
side a fallen log:
“Wasau, we’ll rest here for a
while. Tell Corporal Kambago
to post two guards—one two-
hundred paces forward along the
track, and one two-hundred paces
back along the way we have
come. If they see a real live
Japan soldier they may shoot
him, but if they shoot at any pigs
or rats, or masalai-g hosts as they
did last night, 1 will personally
give them twenty on the back-
side with my kunda- cane. After
that you may bring me a packet
of biscuits and the billycan with
the remains of the pigeon-stew
I had for lunch.”
I ate the meal sleepily. These
patrols down to the coast, four
days down and four days back,
were tiring. They had to be
done by a different route each
time, and they had to be done
quickly. Sometimes the Japs
would get word and send out
patrols to try to catch us. Not
that they were much good in
the bush, but still . . .
Pigeon - stew gets a bit
monotonous, too. I washed it
down with a pannikin of cold
black tea, made a smoke, and
began to feel better.
When Wasau had finished
repacking the mess-gear I said,
Wasau, I think we’ll rest here
for an hour or. so until the moon
rises. If you like, and to keep
me awake, you can tell me one
of your tumbuna stories.”
Wasau grunted, and went
away for a couple of minutes
on some business of his own ;
when he returned he settled
himself on the log, coughed
politely, and began:
“Master, would you like me
to tell you the story of the
moon? This is a very true story,
as you will soon see.”
Wasau, by the way, divides
his stories into two categories—
the true and the very true.
nrHE moon, said Wasa u,
1 originally belonged to a
man named Pangisa, or rather to
his family, since he had got it
from his father, who, in turn,
had inherited it from his fathers
before him ; and up to Pangisa’s
time the ownership had been
kept a closely-guarded secret.
Pangisa kept the moon in a
large basket of plaited cane, the
mouth of which was securely
fastened. In the daytime the
basket hung on a wooden peg
in a corner of his thatched hut,
but at night he would lift it
down, sling it over his shoulder,
take his bow and arrows, and
go hunting. When he came to
the hunting-grounds he would
open the mouth of the basket
just a little bit —about so much —
and as the animals of the forest
or of the grass-plain stood
dazzled and transfixed in the
bright beams, he would shoot
them.
With such advantages Pangisa
was naturally the best hunter in
the village, and commanded
according respect. It was
generally conceded that he must
be assisted by some supernatural
power, but this only gave him
added reputation in the eyes of
the villagers. When, therefore,
he began negotiations for the
purchase of a wife, his suit was
received with respectful attention.
The maiden on whom he
decided to bestow his affections
was Melanee, the only daughter
of old Pandua, the maker of clay
pots, and the acknowledged
belle of the village. As a pros-
pective wife Melanee easily filled
all normal requirements : an
industrious disposition; cooking
ability; and the physique neces-
sary to care for the family
garden, bring in the firewood,
and bear her lord’s children.
In addition, she promised
other delights to which no young
man could be insensible. Her
long and shapely brown legs had
the sheen of the river at the
golden, windless hour of sunrise.
Her breasts were delicately
curved like the fruit of the lau-
lau tree, and taut like two
clenched fists. When she walked,
hef pul-pul grass-skirt swayed
with a motion which caused the
red blood to run across the eyes
of the young men who beheld
her.
Her voice was like the voice
of the little cool stream that
tinkles down the mountainside.
Her eyes, modestly directed to
the ground, and half-hidden by
her long black lashes, were
occasionally raised in a quick
mischievous glance. Pangisa,
perhaps, should have been
warned there. . .
WELL, the negotiations were
YT put in hand, a distant
tambu- cousin acting as inter-
mediary ; a series of presents
were exchanged between the
principals; the bride-price, after
some haggling, was agreed
upon ; and in due course Melanee
moved into Pangisa’s house of
split-palm and thatch.
Things went well until, after
some weeks, Melanee began to
resent Pangisa’s increasingly-
frequent nocturnal absences. His
explanation that he went hunt-
ing did not satisfy her. Cer-
tainly he kept the larder well
stocked with the flesh of the
muruk and the wild pig and the
goura- pigeon and the bush-fowl,
but why should he hunt at night
when all the other men hunted
during the hours of daylight?
Night is the time when newly-
married wives like to have their
husbands at home to comfort
them. The suspicion crossed her
mind that his nightly expeditions
might be aimed at other trophies.
So it was not long before she
began to nag him and give him
the sharp edge of her tongue;
and her voice, which had been
as the voice of the little cool
stream which tinkles down the
mountain, became as the harsh
rasping of two tree-branches
which rub together when the
talio blows. As she sat and
watched her cooking-pot she
would talk to herself in a voice
just loud enough to reach
Pangisa where he squatted under
a little shelter a few yards away,
whittling the limbom- palm tips
for his cane arrows.
What sort of a woman did he
think she was to be taken-in
by such stories, hunting in the
dark, ha ha! Perhaps he thought
she >vas a bit simple like the
women of the little people who
lived high up on the mountain-
side, or those wretched ones who
lived in the forest on the other
side of the sac-sac swamps!
Of course she wasn’t the
daughter of a highly-respected
maker of pots who lived in the
largest house in the most
populous village on the river,
was she? Oh no! Ha ha! And,
of course, no visitors ever came
to her father’s house to sit
-around the fire and talk and sing
and gossip.
And then, in any case, she
was deaf; she had been born
without ears, so she could not
hear the stories they told of the
things men did if one did not
watch them closely. Bah!
Well, it didn’t matter; she
could wait; sooner or later she
would find out what was going
on. And as for that thing-of-a-
thing of a female who was at the
bottom of all this —and here her
voice would rise to a scream —
just wait till she found out who
she was, just wait till she got her
hands on her . . .
After giving her a couple of
sound beatings, which halted her
only temporarily, Pangisa
decided for the sake of peace
to tell her the secret of the
moon-basket. So he took the
basket down from its peg and
showed her how he opened it
just a little bit —about so much
—and allowed the bright beams
of the moon to shine out.
When she saw this, Melanee
was frightened. She knew that
an unpleasant fate usually befell
women who were too curious
about the mysteries- of the
tambaran- house. But, she
thought, since this was Pangisa’s
own private magic, perhaps the
usual rules did not apply.
Pangisa did not leave her in
doubt on this point, he described
to her in detail the lingering and
painful death that awaited her if
she revealed the secret to anyone
else.
■pANGISA had now explained
1 his nightly absences, but
since they continued, Melanee
remained peevish, dissatisfied,
and restless. After the attention
and admiration to which she
had been accustomed in her
single days she was not going
to submit lightly to such
ungallant neglect on the part of
her groom.
She allowed her downcast
lashes to flutter a little, her eyes
to wander . . . When a certain
young man named Yambiwat
put a &ms-leaf cigar into her
hand as they brushed past one
another on the narrow track
leading to the yam-gardens, she
did not, as a good wife should,
immediately complain to her


Missing Friend
WOULD JOHN or JACK LOWE, formerly
a builder’s foreman in the Wellington
District of New Zealand, please contact
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE for
Ashburton, New Zealand, when he will
learn something to his advantage?
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
*
C.B.C.
BANKING FACILITIES
TtoifawMlfanily
Complete banking facilities, including
C.B.C. Savings Bank, are now available
to all members of a family at each
branch of this Bank in New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, Western Aus-
tralia and Australian Capital Territory.
Modern methods and equipment ensure
prompt transaction of Savings Bank
business.
Deposits in C.B.C. Savings Bank
are guaranteed by The
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited
The ever-increasing range of services avail-
able to our customers, whether the account
be large or small, will be explained to you
gladly by the Manager at Head Office or
your nearest branch of the Bank.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
husband that she had been
insulted. Instead, she took the
cigar home and smoked it. And
everybody knows what that
means.
It did not take long for the
affair to progress to the stage
where Yambiwat was admitted
to the full enjoyment of those
charms which rightly and legally
belonged to Pangisa. And, as is
the way with women, having
betrayed her husband once, it
was not very long before
Melanee betrayed him the
second time by divulging to
Yambiwat the secret of the
moon-basket.
Now it happened at this time
that a very big sing-sing dance
was about to be held by the
people of a neighboring village
to celebrate the time of the
harvesting of the yams. Pangisa
was much in request at sing-
sings as a leader: to call the first
words of the songs, and to dance
backward in front of the long
column of revellers, keeping the
time with sharp double-beats
on his kundoo- drum.
So they set-off, Pangisa in the
lead carrying in one hand his
bow* and arrows, and over his
shoulder the moon-basket; a
few paces behind, Melanee, with
her bilum net-bag suspended by
a thong across her head and con-
taining supplies of food, betel-
nut, tobacco - leaf, cooking-
utensils, sleeping-mat, Pangisa’s
sing-sing dress and accoutre-
ments, and a small pet pig whose
mother had died and who there-
fore was treated as one of the
family.
When they arrived at the
village they were welcomed by
Melanee’s great-uncle, called by
courtesy “cousin,” and refreshed
with the cool milk of the green
coconut and a meal of taro and
smoked fish. Pangisa carefully
hung his pfecious basket in a
dark corner.
YMMBIWAT also went to the
sing-sing, but not as a
dancer.
Late in the afternoon the per-
formers started to don their
elaborate dress decorated with
strings of cowrie, large plates of
pearlshell, tinkling wrist- and
ankle-bands of carved garlip-
nuts, headdress of rare feathers
or the skin of the kapul- possum.
Each helped the other to apply
his make-up of colored paints in
intricate stripes and designs.
Some tightened the skins on
the kundoos. Others dragged
into place the big garamut-
drums. The stage was set.
Presently, as the sun in a blaze
of crimson dropped below the
horizon, the garamuts beat out
their warning overture. The
various groups, with shouts and
flourishes, pranced to their
appointed positions on the
dancing-ground. The spectators
settled themselves comfortably.
The sing-sing had begun.
Somewhere about midnight,
by which time both dancers and
spectators were completely under
the intoxicating spell of the
rhythmic drums, and would
remain so for the next thirty-
six hours at least, Melanee got
up, gave a little cough, and
walked away from the circle.
Shortly afterwards Yambiwat
rose to his feet, stretched him-
self, spat out a quid of betel
and lime, and sauntered away
in the opposite direction. A few
minutes later they had met at the
back of the houses, and hand in
hand walked down- to a little
clearing near the bank of the
river. There they lay on the
soft couch-grass and played.
SOME time later, when the
fierce flame of their desire
had been quenched, when they
had rested in exhaustion and
contentment, Yambiwat sat up
and said, “Now is the time for
you to show me the secret of
Pangisa’s basket.”
Melanee answered, “I am
afraid . . .”
“Look, there is no danger.
Nobody will leave the sing-sing
now. All you have to do is to
go up to your cousin’s house by
the back-door and bring the
basket down here. Do you think
I want to steal it? All I want
to do is examine it closely, see
how it is made, then I shall get
Ongta, the magician, to make
me one like it.”
“But if Pangisa finds out . .
“How can he find out? Don’t
be silly. Just do as I tell you,
and when I have had a look at
it you can take it back and
nobody will be any the wiser.
Besides, what’s the use of you
saying you like me so much if
you won’t do a little thing like
this for me? If you are a good
girl I may even ask Ongta for
some magic to kill Pangisa, and
then I will marry you and fnake
you very happy.”
Finally, Melanee was per-
suaded, and she went up to her
cousin’s house by the back-door,
lifted down the moon-basket,
and brought it back to Yambi-
wat where he waited by the
bank of the river.
“Now, you must be very
careful with it,” she said. “You
must take care to open it only a
little bit—like this”
“Give it to me,” said
Yambiwat impatiently as he
took it from her hands. “I will
soon see how it works.”
Then he opened the mouth of
the basket, just a little bit at first,
but when the bright beams
shone forth he was so startled
that he opened it too much.
Immediately the moon flew
out of the basket and up into
the branches of a near-by tree.
Yambiwat was now really
frightened. Clutching the basket
tightly he climbed up the tree
and tried to coax the moon back
into it. But every time he got
close it flew away easily into the
branches of another tree.
Meanwhile the bright beams
coming from the river and
shining across the black sky had
caused dismay and excitement
among the dancers at the sing-
sing. Pangisa, alone, suspected
what had happened; grabbing
his bow and arrows he ran
towards the light, closely
followed by the rest of the
assembly.
There was no time to be lost:
as they heard the shouts and the
trample of many feet approach-
ing, Yambiwat and Melanee ran
quickly along the riverbank till
they came to the landing where
the canoes were moored.
Luckily, some of the visitors
who had come by river had left
their paddles sticking in the
mud at the bottom of the bank.
Grabbing one each as they ran,
the guilty pair jumped into the
handiest canoe and paddled for
their lives upstream.
BY this Pangisa and the rest of
the crowd had reached the
riverbank and were gazing up at
the moon, which hovered a
couple of hundred feet overhead.
Pangisa drew back on his
mighty bow until the limbom
almost cracked, and let fly a
shaft, but the moon only fled
higher and higher. He loosed
many arrows —if you look up
you can see the holes where he
pierced the sky —but he could not
touch the moon, which went on,
up and up, until it came to rest
near the wall of the outer world.
Now the owner of the stolen
canoe raised a cry. Melanee and
Yambiwat had already been
missed: the events of the night
became very clear to everybody.
In his chagrin and his rage
Pangisa called on the forbidden
name of the great masalai- god
of the river. He asked that he
might be changed into a
crocodile so that he could pursue
and revenge himself on the
runaways.
His wish was granted ; in full
view of the frightened onlookers
his form was changed, and he
slid smoothly down the bank
into the river.
Ever since then Pangisa has
swum up and down the river
looking for his faithless wife and
the treacherous Yambiwat. That
is why it is dangerous to go
down to the river on a moonlight
night. He is getting old now,
and his sight is failing —it would
be most embarrassing to be mis-
taken for Melanee, or for
Yambiwat.
THE sky was getting lighter.
From the north-east came
the drone of many aircraft. Then
Wasau said, suddenly, “Look,
look, master! The Americans
have put two moons in the
sky! ”
“Yes, moons all right, Wasau ;
their name is Parachute Flare.
Wake the boys up ; its time we
moved on.”
THE SHOP DUMMY
Two eyes behind the hallowed glass,
That have no light or hidden room,
Are wide and fixed. Although I know
He does not peer into the gloom
That hides the street, now as he stands,
Tailored in black and for the night,
l see my father once again
And so l wait for words of light.
And people look him up and down
And price the suit —he does not blink
But goes on brooding in his wood
On absolutes, as shop-lights wink.
My father often stood like this
And words of gods then seemed to pass
Into his speech. These lips are still
Behind his death that stands like glass.
victoria.
R. A. SIMPSON.


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
m
m
BORN 1820— STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WALKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
V JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
\ WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
jk\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.18T.12
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH WILSON—TAKE NOTICE
that BERYL JESSIE WILSON ha# filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1160 of 1956
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 28th December 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from F. C. SINCLAIR, Solicitor,
of 2b Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW'
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC JOHN MCDONALD.—TAKE
NOTICE that EVELYN MAY McDONALD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3156
of 1956 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Register, Supreme Court King
Street, Sydney by the 17th of January
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK CHARLES OTTAWAY
late of Walgett.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDNA DOREEN OTTAWAY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1698 of 1956 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Register
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 17th of January 1957 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ARTHUR HARGRAVE
TAKE NOTICE that MURIEL ISABEL
HARGRAVE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3807 of 1956 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may eliter an appearance
in the Divorce Register, Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 17th of
January 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CYRIL GEORGE STILL late of
Casino.—TAKE NOTICE that THELMA
ST. CLARE STILL has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2859 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to. defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
17th day of January 1957 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO., Soli-
citors, 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
•»
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas,
TO:
Address
FROM:
Address
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
{NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas, unless a definite date is requested.)
12 months £2/8/-; 6 months £l/4/6; 3 months 12/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription is
paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign £3/6/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Bulletin for
Feb. 1, 1950 (jubilee-number).—
6419.
To sell a set of six genuine North
Queensland boomerangs.—642l.
To buy copies of “The Buzzer”;
edited by Gunner Taylour; published
on the Army transport (Beltana,
1917); reprinted by Government
Printer (Brisbane, 1918). —6422.
To buy copy of The “Bulletin ”
Reciter. —6423.
To buy the following: Across the
Parallel (Australian 77th with
U.S.A.F. in Korea; Melbourne,
1953), by G. Odgers; Bodger and the
Boarders (1921), by E. O’Ferrall;
The Colony of Western Australia
(1839), by Nathaniel Ogle; copies of
“Old Times” (No. 3 and onwards);
Pacific Island Yearbook (Vol. 3,
1939); A Windjammer 'Prentice
(Sydney, 1927), by A. W. Pearse. —
6420.
Information Sought
Particulars of the torpedo-attack on
the S.S. Southland in 1915 ?
The following information was
provided by the Shiplovers’ Society of
Victoria (which, however, was unable
to find full particulars of the. vessel’s
tonnage, etc.): At 9.45,a.m. on Sept.
2, 1915, the Southland, carrying the
Australian General Legge with his
staff, the (Australian) 21st Battalion
and a company of the 23rd, and a few
“details” of the British artillery and
yeomanry, and on course about 40
miles south of Lemnos, was struck in
the bow by a torpedo. The explosion
blew a hole 40ft. by 12ft. on the
waterline below the bridge. A second
torpedo passed harmlessly astern. The
troops remained calm and disciplined,
but some of the crew panicked and
broke from control; they caused
several accidents, involving loss of
life, as the boats were being lowered.
At 11 a.m. the hospital-ship Neuralia
arrived and took aboard the 400 men,
including General Legge, still in the
Southland, and picked-up others.
Later, more ships arrived, and rescued
other survivors. Southland’s captain,
Kelk, decided to try to save his ship,
and called for volunteer-stokers. Lt.
Pearce of 21 Bn., with five other
officers and 12 men, stayed in the ship
and, though she was by then 14ft.
down by the bows, brought her
successfully into port. Thirty-two
Australians aboard lost their lives.
* * * *
Recently 1 was given a ship’s wheel
{measuring 24in. across ), on the brass-
work of which is inscribed “With the
compliments of Thos. Ward, Ltd.,
Sheffield.” The name
Centurion” appears around the boss.
I have a feeling the wheel was
presented to a 7-elation visiting the
U.K. about 1910. Can you tell me
something of the Centurion ?
(From Win. A. Henderson, Hon.
Secretary, Shiplovers’ Society of New
South Wales.) I have been able to
obtain the following particulars from
Jane’s Fighting Ships (Navy List).
The Centurion was a twin-screw
battleship; armored; first-class;
10,500 tons; 9000 i.h.p.; length,
360 ft.; speed, 16.5 knots. Com-
missioned at Portsmouth on Feb. 14,
1894, she was commanded by Vice-
Admiral Hon. Sir Edmund R.
Fremantle, K.C.8., C.M.G., and
flagshipped the China Station. Only
two of her type were built; her sister-
ship, the Barfleur. She had a ram-
bow like the Orlando, which was on
Sydney Station about that time. The
Centurion _ was used to make the
gunnery-trial of a new and entirely
original system of heavy-gun mount-
ings and loading-gear. As regards her
subsequent breaking-up and con-
nection with Thos. W. Ward, Ltd.,
Thos. Ward (Aust.), Ltd., advise that
they have no record of ships broken-
up by them; but I think there is no
doubt she was sold to Thos. W.
Ward, Ltd., in 1910 and the wheel
presented to someone who had an
interest in the ship.
* * * *
Particulars of Australian writer
Bernard Cronin ?
Born at Ealing (Eng.) on Mar. 18,
1884, he was educated at private
schools in Melbourne and at Dookie
Agricultural College, wheic ne won
the Fink Scholarship in 1900. He
worked on the land for a time, in
Victoria and north-west Tasmania,
and in 1913 returned to Melbourne,
where he has lived ever since; he
has been freelance-journalist and
member of the staff of Melbourne
“Herald.” He has also been associ-
ated with the teaching of writing and
journalism. In 1920, with Gertrude
Hart, he founded the Derelicts Club,
from which developed the Society of
Australian Authors, and in 1935 he
inaugurated the Quill Club; and he
has been president of the Melbourne
centre of the International P.E.N.
Club. He has published many novels,
mostly books of adventure in an out-
back setting, under his own name
and under the pseudonyms of Wallace
Dixon, Hugh Bohun, Eric North and
Denis Adair. His novels include The
Coastlanders (1918), Timber Wolves
(1920), Bluff Stakes (1922), Salvage
(1923), Red Dawson (1927), Dragonfly
(1928), Toad (1929), The Sow’s Ear
(1933), The Shadows Mystery (1944),
The Ant Men (1955) and A Chip on
My Shoulder (1955). In collaboration
with Doris Boake Kerr he published
a book of poetry, Kangaroo Rhymes
(1922), and is represented in Best
Australian One-Act Plays (1937).
* * * *
Is it known what were the actual
conditions under which the ancient
Egyptians employed on building the
Pyrar. ids worked?
Not exactly; but most, if not all,
of the authorities on ancient Egypt
(Petrie, Breasted, Weigall, Baikie,
etc.) are agreed that the picture often
given of straining, sweating slaves
lashed by brutal overseers is
exaggerated, to say the least. Most
of the Egyptians of the time were
free men, renting, though not owning,
a strip of soil on which they toiled
from the rise of the sun to its setting;
there were, of course, slaves in the
land, too. The workmen on the
Pyramids came mostly, it seems, from
the free men (“commandeered” for
three months in a year, according to
Weigall); and though the lot of the
ancient Egyptian was “not brilliant,”
to quote Baikie, he was probably not
much poorer or worse-off than his
present-day counterpart. The
Pyramid-builders sang as they worked,
it is known, to a rhythm beaten-out
by stamping and clapping; and their
labor would not have been any more
arduous than that of the common
people anywhere in that age. In
further support of the more-or-less
favorable lot of the Egyptian at the
time, there is the poet Maeterlinck’s
remark (in his Ancient Egypt) that
“to the enemy from without the
Pharaohs were pitiless... .but in
regard to their own subjects there
never was, perhaps, in all this world
a long line of monarchs so just, so
humane, so paternal.” (The “Pyramid
Age” was circa 3000 b.c. to 2500 b.c.,
the approximate dates for the IVth
and Vth Dynasties, the Pharaohs of
which built the “unmeaning
sepulchral piles.”)
* * * *
Who are some Australian authors
who have written detective-stories ?
The first Australian murder-story
was The Mystery of the Hansom Cab,
by Fergus Hume (1859-1932), pub-
lished in 1886. Set in Melbourne, it
concerned the solving of the death of
Oliver Whyte, whose body was found
m a cab. In 1888 Hume, an English-
man, returned to England, where he
turned-out a great number of what
were in the main mystery-stories,
though only one or two were set in
Australia. Fergus Hume’s technique
was somewhat limited and rough
compared with that of later prac-
titioners of the art, but there is no
doubt that The Mystery of the
Hansom Cab ranks as a genuine
“whodunnit.” Not many Australian
writers actually have attempted the
form. The best-known and most
successful has been Arthur Upfield,
and his aboriginal investigator,
Napoleon Bonaparte, is the most
famous Australian fictional detective;
Upfield has a vast output to his
credit, from The House of Cain (1928)
to The Battling Prophet, the mystery
of the death of a famous long-range
weather-forecaster, published this
year. Jean Maud Spender, wife of Sir
Percy Spender, has written several
detective-stories, such as The Charge
Is Murder (1933) and Full Moon for
Murder (1948). “Michael Innes”
(John Innes Mackintosh Stewart,
who, between 1934 and 1945, was
professor of English at Adelaide Uni-
versity) also wrote a series of
detective-novels, most of which have
Australian references though their
background is usually Britain and
Europe. The Delaney novels of “Bant
Singer” (Charles Shaw) You’re
Wrong, Delaney; Have Patience,
Delaney; etc. —would a/so merit
classification in any list of Australian
works of crime-fiction.
Brief Answer#
Pro Bono Publico: (1) Russia’s exit
would have had only a slight effect:
Russia for a long time previous to the
big cheque had never bought our
wool; the fall in the price of
wool was inevitable—it had been
riding an abnormally high wave; what
Russia didn’t buy somebody else did
(world supply and demand); there
was no unsold wool last year. (2)
A reciprocal agreement exists between
Australia and the U.S. on double-
taxation. However, in many of the
cases around which the type of
propaganda to which you refer
develops the companies are not
•American companies at all, but Aus-
tralian compa n i e s carrying-out
activities in Australia for the parent.
They are, therefore, subject to normal
taxation; and any remittances to the
U.S. are subject to a further
(stringent) tax J.K.: [From the
Bureau of Meteorology.] (1) In
general, Ift. snow is not equal to lin.
rain. This is of course apparent when
it is considered that the amount of
water in a given volume of snow
depends on such things as the size
of the snow-articles, the type of snow-
orystal, the extent to which the snow
is compacted, and that snow-grains
tend to become coarsely crystalline
after lying on the ground. Thus it is
found that the snow-equivalent of
lin. water varies from 6in. to 30in.
As an average value, however, lOin.
snow approximates lin. rain. (2)
There is not thought to be any
simple relationship between snowfall
and rises in the Murray River, as
snowmelt depends on so many factors
that cannot be easily evaluated, such
as rainfall, wind and temperature.
G.T.: Our critic notes no marked
deterioration in the playing of the
orchestra... .E.L.A.: [From Norman
B. Tindale, Curator of Anthropology,
South Australian Museum.] (1) Re
the name Crinogle (applied to a per-
manent lagoon in the Hundred of
Binnum at Frances in the south-east
of South Australia), the original
native name of this lagoon was Krina-
kal, with the stress on the first
syllable. It means “cutting-grass
water,” from the abundant presence
of cutting-grass tussocks of the kinds
used by the aborigines in basket-
making. (2) Conkar Lagoon was
originally known as Konogor, mean-
ing “swan lake,” from the presence
of black swans there. (3) We do
not have the meanings of the names
Mungal and Lake Cadnite. Perhaps
if you have information about them,
as may be inferred from your letter,
you would be kind enough to pass
the information to us at the South
Australian Museum.... J.A.V.: (1)
There is no one authority who admin-
isters deceased estates. They are
administered by executors or
administrators appointed by the will
or by the court. (2) No. (3)
Certificates may be obtained from the
register of the parish in which the
person was bom. Unless you have
good reason to believe that your
father’s estate has not been
administered, you are going to waste
a large amount of time and money
making a claim on it 56 years after his
death. Probably the whole estate has
been seized by the Crown
V.J.D.: Colonial Ballads, edited by
Hugh Anderson, illustrated by Ronald
G. Edwards, and published by Ram’s
Skull Press, Lower Ferntree Gully
(Vic.)... .M.E.S.: Writers’ Market-
ing Guide, compiled by G. R. Pitt-
away and Ray Davie, and published
by Australian Writers’ Professional
Service (Box 28, 380 CoUins-street,
Melbourne), is a guide to Australian,
New Zealand and selected overseas
markets; price 12s. 6d C.H.C.:
Under the auspices of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund, Judith Wright
delivered three lectures on Aus-
tralian Poetry in 1955 at the Uni-
of New England, Armidale
(N.S.W.), from whom copies of the
lectures may be obtained A.M.T.:
■The following studies in Australian
bibliography have been published by
Walter Stone, 64 Young-street,
Cremome (N.S.W.): Henry Lawson:
A Chronological Checklist of His
to The Bulletin,
1887-1924, and Joseph Furphy: An
Annotated Bibliography, both by
Walter Stone; Shaw Neilson: An
Annotated Bibliography, by Hugh
Anderson; and the Roy Bridges
Collection in the University of Tas-
mania, by D. H. Borchardt and B.
Tilley. Forthcoming bibliographies
in the same series are T. A. Browne
(“Rolf Boldrewood”), by Keast
burke, and Norman Lindsay’s Con-
tributions to “The Lone Hand,” by
George Mackaness and Walter Stone.
G.L.: The Byers and Holtermann
nugget was mined from a claim on
Hawkins’s Hill, Hill End (N.S.W.), on
October 19, 1872. It was 4ft. 9in.
high, 2ft. 2in. wide, and had an
average thickness of 4in. It
weighed 6301 b H.J.W.: The
Peter Rheinberger diaries embrace
the years between 1870 and June,
1924, and are invaluable records in
the history of Mudgee (N.S.W.) and
the surrounding district. They have
not been published. Information
regarding them can be obtained from
Rev. Dr. A. W. Maher, St. Mary’s
Presbytery, Mudgee (N.S.W.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.N.G.: Not for us your long
poem in the C. J. Dennis manner with
the engaging title “An Old-time Sydney
Larrikin to a King’s Cross Bodgie.”
....S.F.D.: From a literary point of
view, there are more downs than
ups in “Ups and Downs”... .F.L.T. :
Whereabouts in Australia do “tribes
of naked savages terrify the passing
motorist with their fiendish, blood-
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
curdling screams”? K.M.W.:
Referred “The Girl in the Kimono”
to the Religious Editor, who reported
her as being an uninteresting hussy.
... .A.C.N.: Off and on over the
years we must have met that bush-
man and his sugar-bag of snakes a
hundred times D.A.: “I can write
triolets about violets, sonnets about
bonnets and ballads about Galahads.”
Maybe, but not in these columns
K.McK.: Should you meet Adam
Lindsay Gordon in the next world he
will have something to say to you
about your “The Sick Truckdriver.
E.D.: Nothing original in “Sun-
day Afternoon in the Sydney
Domain.”... .C.H.D.: Have heard
“A Twice Told Tale” before....
J.R.: If you want to “win editors
and influence readers” you will have
to do a lot better than that
A.T.P.: “Darby Dunn’s Dopey Dog"
was chased off the premises
V.M.: “A Little Bush Maid” belongs
to a faraway age and is much too
tender for these tough days F.W.:
We could not resist “The Parable
of the Dejected Barmaid”: —
The barmaid wept-—her smile was bleat —
The tear-drops trickled down her cheek;
She wiped the moisture from her eyes,
And then she began to soliloquise:
“Oh who in this dump could be
A girl of any originality?
How can a bright maid hope to win
When all they’ll risk is squash with gin?
“If some new drink I chance to mix
Costing no more than t.welve-and-six,
Am I acclaimed by drinking men,
And asked to mix that drink again?
“Ah no.” (She paused to give a sniff.)
“The public’s likely to put on a tiff,
Whene’er you offer a drink that’s new
Instead of the same old-fashioned brew.
“Still, what’s the good of crying about it?
I’ll give them for what they shouted.”
Grim-faced, she splashed a squash
Into a gin as if it were hog-wash.


For One World-shaking Week
MIRACLE IN HUNGARY
By STEPHEN KELEN
IMAGINE yourself a prisoner,
bound hand - and - foot,
gagged, in a solitary cell,
watched through spy-holes
every minute of the day, given
enough food to survive, but no
more. Could you hope to
escape, preserve sanity and will
to live again as a free man?
Hungary is such a prison, and
Hungarians the prisoners. Yet
for a single glorious and tragic
week they tore down the walls of
their formidable jail, and
appeared to be the masters of
their own destiny. Now their
hopes for freedom and independ-
ence are crushed again. As soon
as Soviet “law arid order” is
established the Communist
shackles will be tighter than ever.
The Russian back-room boys
will be again in all offices,
dictating to their local stooges
Moscow’s will, which will be
carried out more punctiliously
than ever before. Public build-
ings to. be entered only by
special permission. Once again
all citizens will have to carry
identification-cards on them.
As a reminder of austerity
“ordinary people” will be
allowed to go up in lifts, and
have to walk down, regardless
of age or physical condition. The
official newspaper “Szabad
Nep” (Free People”— an insult
of anyone’s intelligence) reintro-
duced as compulsory reading for
half an hour every day. “Blitz-
meetings,” often lasting for
hours, in the workers’ own time
again the order of the day on
the slightest provocation to
discuss production defects, and
keep everyone to the “party
line” through promises and—
mostly—threats. All members of
a family forced to work to eke
out a miserable living. Nursing-
mothers a luxury only a select
few can afford. Babes-in-
arms to be taken to the Bolcsode
(creche), the elder ones to “day
homes” every morning—so many
hostages.
But this will not be enough
to keep the people under control.
The “security man,” a member
or informer of the secret-police,
organised and controlled on
Russian lines, will appear in
every house again. Children
will be encouraged to “tell on”
their parents. And Russian
troops to back this rule by
treachery.
+ +
For a short week the miracle
of freedom walked the streets
of Budapest and the Hungarian
countryside. To-day it again
seems that nothing short of
another world cataclysm and
disintegration of the Russian
Empire could bring freedom to
the Magyar nation.
Despite the formidable grip
Communism had on Hungary,
it was no coincidence that the
Magyars were the first to make
a determined attempt to shake
themselves free from the grip
of the Russian overlords and
their local hirelings. Their light-
ning success was a miracle, but
one based on sound reasons.
Racially, Hungary is one of
the alien islands in the midst of
a sea of Slavs who traditionally
look towards Moscow for
guidance. Tito, in the end, was
willing to make up with the
Russians (although with reserva-
tions), but a truly Hungarian
leader would reject them and
seek alliance with the West. That
was clearly the reason why the
Hungarian rebels resolved to
fight to the end, no matter what
the consequences, instead of
accepting the “favorable terms”
of Communist masters.
Hungarian Communist leaders
all along the line were distrusted
and hated. They returned to the
country under Russian protec-
tion, and used the “liberators” to
make their compatriots submit
to an alien way of life.
Whether they were Titoists
or Moscow stooges it made little
difference to the bulk of the
population; they were con-
sidered murderers, usurpers and
atheists.
Hungary is an agricultural
country, with an overwhelming
peasant population; religious,
keen, with a deep, even greedy,
love for the land they till. For
centuries they had to work for
the big landholders —some of
them benevolent, others despots
—and harbored the dream that
one day the land they worked
would be theirs.
The Communists, after super-
ficial promises of religious
freedom and division of large
estates into small homesteads,
embarked on religious discrimi-
nation and collectivisation. The
“kulak” (a peasant holding a
large tract of land) was upheld
as the embodiment of absolute
wrong, taxed to poverty and
persecuted when, deep down in
his heart, all Hungarian peasants
wanted to be landowners. Kulak,
by the way, is a Russian word
which was never heard in
Hungary before the Communists
took the country over for the
second time.
+ +
Hungary had the very doubtful
privilege of being the first
country outside Russia to be
ruled by a soviet Government.
The Communists for the first
time took power on March 21,
1919, under the leadership of
B£la Kun. During the 133 days
of his regime hundreds were
killed, and the era is noted in
Hungarian history as the “time
of the Red Terror.”
After the fall of Bela Kun,
Hungary was struck by an anti-
Communist White Terror, which
claimed at least an equal number
of victims as its Red predecessor.
One of Kun’s youngest
commissars was Matyas Rakosi.
He was twenty-seven when he
fled to Austria, then found his
way to the Soviet Union. He
returned to Hungary five years
later, but his activities were
uncovered and he was con-
demned to eight and a half
years in Vacz prison. On his
second trial, in 1936, he was
sentenced to life-imprisonment.
During the Soviet-Nazi Pact the
Soviet Government negotiated
the exchange of Rakosi for other
Hungarians imprisoned in
Russia.
Dring the war years Rakosi
was selected as the Russian-
sponsored Communist boss of
Hungary. He returned to Buda-
pest with the victorious Soviet
army.
His “protectors,” however,
were no credit to him. Rape,
murder and the systematic
plunder of a war-torn country
followed the Russian occupation.
The black days of 1919 were
recalled by. “old-timers.” For
the younger generation this was
the first encounter with the
Russians (except for those who
fought on the eastern front). It
would have been difficult
to decide whether the Nazi
oppressors or the Russian
“liberators” were more bestial.
So, at first, Rakosi and his
entourage of other Communist
Emigres imported from U.S.S.R.
had to move cautiously. No
force was used nor Russian help
called at Hungary’s first post-
war election on November 15,
1945.
The Independent Small Land-
holders won 57 per cent., the
Communists only 17 per
cent, of the vote. Obviously
Hungarians wanted no Soviet
regime in their country. The
Red Army, however, stipulated
that no matter what the elections
outcome was, the Communists
must receive the Ministry of the
Interior. Ironically enough,
Ldszlo Rajk, later executed as
a deviationist, spy, Western
agent, etc., was the Communist
to receive this most important
portfolio.
Peter Gabor, a former Soviet
citizen, became head of the
political police, and Zoltan Vass,
who held a dual Hungarian-
Soviet citizenship, commissioner-
of-supplies and mayor of Buda-
pest. With the three most
important posts in their hands
the Communists commenced the
elimination of their political
opponents. Non - Communist
deputies were intimidated to
resign, accused of subversive
activities, jailed or thrown into
concentration - camps. On
December 31, 1946, Rajk
announced that nearly a hundred
Independent Small Landholders
had been implicated in a con-
spiracy aiming to overthrow the
Government.
A reign of unrestrained terror
followed. Bela Kovdcs, secretary-
general of the Independent Small
Landholders’ party, was accused
with one of the Communists’ pet
charges: “participating in sub-
versive and anti-Soviet terror-
group activities.” Ferenc Nagy
(not to be confused with Imre
Nagy), an Independent Small
Landholder, Premier of Hungary,
refused to waive Kovacs’
Parliamentary immunity.
Obviously the Reds didn’t feel
strong enough to go bluntly
against the Constitution, so
they let the Russian Army
handle the Kovacs case.
Kovacs was arrested by
Russian intelligence, accused of
treason. There was no trial; he
just disappeared, and no one
heard of him again.
Meanwhile the pressure
increased on Ferenc Nagy. He
was forced to expel his own
representatives from the Govern-
ment as well as the Parliament.
While he was holidaying in
Switzerland, Rakosi intensified
the attacks against him, and,
realising the utter folly of return-
ing home to defend himself, the
last independent Premier of
Hungary sought refuge in the
United States.
As the tempo of Opposition-
elimination increased, Rakosi
decided to hold another “free
election” on August 31, 1947.
This time the Communists polled
1,112,000 votes and emerged as
the largest party in Hungary.
They were helped, however, by
their own election-officers, who
allowed enthusiasts to cast votes
not once but several times.
But now two personalities with
entirely different characteristics
and beliefs emerged and threat-
ened the safety of the Stalin-
addicted Hungarian Communists.
Tito’s successful defiance of
the Kremlin kindled the patriotic
spirit even in the hearts of some
Hungarian Communists. Clearly
the country was being bled white
by the alien usurpers, who
insisted on posing as benefactors.
All agreements were loaded
to the disadvantage of the
Hungarians.
Every Soviet trade-delegation
which visited Budapest meant
more possibility of a famine,
fewer shoes and clothing. In
the end it wasn’t a question any
longer of taking the wealth
of Hungary, but taking away the
sheer necessities to lead a semi-
civilised existence. In a country
where food was always plentiful
and cheap in peace-time people
now starved. The Russian
appetite for all things was in-
satiable.
In return for the worldly goods
“Russian ideologies” and culture
were imported in the largest
possible quantities to penetrate
and change the Hungarian mind.
Seldom has a more futile attempt
been made. Save for some of the
great Russian novelists and
composers, Hungarians were
interested mostly in Western
achievements both spiritually
and materially.
+ +
The Communist reformers,
striving for national independ-
ence, realised and supported the
stubborn resistance of their
countrymen. It was impossible
to resent the Russians and their
Hungarian bootlickers out-
wardly, but man’s thoughts and
secret intentions cannot be
traced and adjusted in a hurry.
The “deviationists,” encour-
aged by Tito’s success, showed
their hands and lost their heads.
It was one of those historical
paradoxes: Communists dying
for their country’s national
aspirations.
Tito was an outside influence,
and showed a beginning. But
inside Hungary was a greater
and more dangerous power in
the person of Cardinal Jozsef
Mindszenty, who defied the
Gestapo, suffered and survived
the war, and stood out like a rock
against Communist attempts to
“reform” the Catholic Church.
Eliminate him ? Even the most
fanatical Stalinists shirked the
risk of a civil war, and being
utterly confounded by world
opinion. Discredit him ? The
very thought of it was ridiculous,
unless the Cardinal would do so
himself. Hence the “brainwash-
ing” and phony “confessions” —
and imprisonment.
Another victim of the Com-
munists’ war against Christianity
was Lajos Ordas, the Lutheran
bishop of Hungary. Priests who
refused to preach in a “progres-
sive spirit” were interned, sent to
concentration-camps or Russia
for “corrective treatment.”
Rakosi, at first full of “good
intentions and patriotism,” took
off his kid-gloves and ruled with
an iron hand. Erring Com-;
munists or common patriots
were imprisoned or killed off —
the latter for preference.
Fhe Hungarian Communist
party now claimed 650,000 mem-
bers. Together with a formid-
able secret-police, a strong army
(which, to all appearances, was
loyal to the Government), Soviet
troops eating their food and
pride away, the people took up
sarcasm as the only weapon left
to them. Even during the
darkest days of German and
Russian occupation Hungarians
managed to laugh at their own
misery and make fun of the
usurpers. Here are three of the
most typical jokes, which, in all
seriousness, show the peoples’
disappointment and despair: —-
“When the Commies took over,”
said one street-sweeper to the other,
“we were told that the ruling-class
would have to do our work, and
we’d be doing better things.”
“Don’t be a fool,” the other
explained. “Don’t you know that
we’re the ruling-class now?”
Another “joke” is about one
of Rakosi’s goodwill tours
amongst the peasants of
Hungary:
In the beflowered main square a
microphone was rigged-up, and the
villagers ordered to cheer the Com-
munist boss. Rakosi was anxious for
praise and asked the local commissar
to get a reliable but genuine peasant
to broadcast.
“Gyula Varga has never said a
word against you,” said the local
member. “I think we could use
him.”
So Varga was called to the micro-
phone. .. „ „
“Now then, Uncle Gyula, Rdkosi
said, “I want you to tell the world
how you feel about our people s
democracy, where there are no land-
owners exploiting your kind.”
The peasant just stood there, silent,
visibly apathetic.
“Come now,” Rakosi went on,
“here’s your big opportunity to have
your voice heard everywhere. This
is a world-wide hook-up. The
whole nation —more than that; the
whole world —is listening to our
conversation.”
“The whole world?” peasant
Varga asked with sudden interest.
“Yes,” Rakosi kept on encourag-
ing, “the whole world. This is your
big opportunity. So carry on, say
ivhat you like.”
“All right then,” peasant Varga
turned to the microphone. “People
of England,” he yelled, “people of
America! Help, help, help!”
The third joke is about
Rakosi walking across Buda-
pest’s Freedom Square carrying
an umbrella opened above his
head:
“How odd,” observed an onlooker.
“The sun is shining; not a cloud in
the sky, and Comrade R&kosi carries
an umbrella.” .
“The point is, though,” his friend
explained, “that I listened to a
Russian broadcast; it is raining
heavily in Moscow.”
But jokes don’t fill empty
bellies —they are a poor substi-
tute for lost pride and national
traditions older than a
millennium. The Communists
forced the tempo of transform-
ing customs, ethics, beliefs,
artistic expression, dreading the
day when the Soviet Army
would move out of Hungary and
leave them to their own devices.
Adding insult to injury, a 30ft.
statue of Stalin was erected
where the Regum Marianum
stood, at the end of one of the
most pleasant thoroughfares of
Budapest. The sculpture was
placed on a tremendous dais,
worked with reliefs depicting
scenes from the Red dictator’s
life. This became Stalin Square,
where Communists held their
demonstrations and shows of
strength.
As soon as the revolt was
strong enough it spent its initial
fury op Stalin’s statue, which
was torn down and smashed to
pieces. Before events culminated
in the falling of the idol Stalin
had to die.
Ever since Stalin’s death the
deadly grip of the Communist
Governments in the satellite
countries has loosened. For one
thing they didn’t feel strong
enough to continue with the
killing-off of “reactionaries” and
deviationists. The enemies were
sent to prisons, concentration-
camps, but they were alive,
embittered enough to risk any-
thing should the slightest oppor-
tunity arise.
Once the Hungarians became
aware of the softening process
that gradually engulfed their
Communist Government they
became more daring. First there
were timid utterances of criti-
cism at the so-called “semi-
nariums,” where workers,
students and other “progres-
sives” were compelled to discuss
State problems. There were no
serious repercussions. Then the
verbal attacks became more
violent; Rdkosi and his hench-
men were openly called
murderers by Communists who
secretly remained loyal to Rajk
and the other Titoists, eliminated
when the tide of ruthlessness was
at its highest.
Vaguely the opinion formu-
lated in the public’s mind that
Rakosi and his followers were
living on borrowed time, but a
physical uprising, while the
{Continued on page 34)


Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Roomß for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Ettablished 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)*
tsTRUAN RORERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS*
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. % E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Fighting Force was the best
thing beaten in a Melbourne Cup
for years. He lost three lengths
when the field packed up around
him six furlongs from home, and
George Moore, rider of Caranna,
was suspended for two months
for crossing him and Sir William
sharply a furlong—l 2 seconds—
from home, yet Fighting Force
dashed it when he recovered
so fast that he got within a
length of Evening Peal (winner)
and closer to Redcraze (second)
and Caranna (third).
It was one of the most
enthralling finishes in years, with
six horses with positive chances
a furlong out. The winner then
seemed Redcraze, the mighty
red gelding mowing-down the
others out on his own on the
outside of the field ; but his run,
with his 10.3, ended just before
the post, and Evening Peal came
again to win by a neck, con-
founding those who say the
Delville Woods will go 12
furlongs but not 16 furlongs.
Fighting Force can be looked
on as likely in the V.R.C.’s
Olympic Cup next Saturday, but
he’s an unlucky horse. Last year
he was going very well indeed
in the fig Cup when another
runner fell in front of him, and
he lost his chance. Still, he’s
much improved, very game, and
his trainer, Roy Shaw, wouldn’t
be surprised if he won anything.
Maybe the extra 101 b. in
penalties for his Metropolitan
and Caulfield Cup wins worried
Redcraze out of first money in
the Melbourne Cup, but he ran
a wonderful race all the same
and suffered narrow defeat. The
Cup was truly run, Evening
Peal’s winning time equalling the
Australian record of 3.19} for
two miles. Redcraze has now
earned £50,518, and Evening
Peal £29,303, her total now
getting close to Flight’s record
for a mare, £30,627.
New Zealand three-year-old
filly Innesfell, winner of the
£4OOO V.R.C. Oaks, is raced by
her breeder, O. F. Watson, and
trained for him by G. H. Murfitt.
The combination also won the
Veteran Stakes the same after-
noon at Flemington with
Mananui, a New Zealand-bred
five-year-old son of Sun King
(imp.). Innesfell is by Pictavia
(imp.) from Lighthouse by Sieg-
fried (imp.) from Lucky Light
by Paper Money (imp.). The
filly is related to Flight.
Sabaean (imp.), a son of Blue
Peter, and from a half-sister to
Hyperion, is sire of many
winners in New Zealand,
including Emphatic. He sired
Gay Saba, winner of the Kemp-
ton Stakes, run on Oaks day.
The colt is raced by W. Balloch
and trained by H. Wolters. His
dam, Dunmurry, was got by
Spiral from Imposture by
Posterity (imp.) from Impetuous
(dam of seven winners) by
Limond (imp.). Impetuous was
granddam of Nizam’s Ring
(V.R.C. Oaks).
Not many of the progeny of
the French sire Djafar have so
far sported silk; Burning
Embers, easy winner of the
V.R.C.’s Ottawa Stakes for two-
year-old fillies, is one of his get.
Trained by B. W. Rout for Mrs.
L. Adams, the filly was bred by
Sir Chester Manifold (V.R.C.
chairman) at his Talindert stud,
Camperdown (Vic.). Gay
Romeda, dam of Burning
Embers, is a Gay Lothario
(imp.) mare from Andromeda by
Great Star (imp.). Djafar is a
son of noted French sire Djebel,
whose sons have been successful
in England, on the Continent,
and in the U.S. Djafar didn’t do
much racing, but he won at
first start in two - year - old
company, and one of his three-
year-old successes was in the
Longchamps Prix Enghein (84-
furlongs). His oldest progeny
are three-year-olds.
Sailor’s Guide returned to his
best form in winning the
V.A.T.C. Pentathlon Stakes on
Saturday, giving Sydney jockey
A. Mulley an easy ride. Mulley
was in luck, because Sellwood,
who had been riding Sailor’s
Guide, went to America to pilot
Prince Cortauld in the Washing-
ton International. Sailor’s Guide
has now won £37,144 in stakes.
He’s on the small side, so maybe
his 9.2 was too much for him
over the Cup’s two miles: on
Saturday it was a mile-and-a-
half, with 8.8.
Including the Sailor’s Guide
win, Mulley rode three in a row
at Caulfield. The others were
Baystone in the Eclipse Stakes
and Philstar in the Zeus Plate.
It was Baystone’s second win in
Melbourne during the spring
season, and this four-year-old
gelding could prove a topliner
when the autumn racing comes
round.
This year the V.R.C. split its
Melbourne Cup carnival so that
it could stage the £6200 Olympic
Year Cup on the firtal day, closer
to the opening date of the
Games. It’s to be run at a mile-
and-threequarters.
On the same V.R.C. final-day
programme is the C. B. Fisher
Plate of £6OOO (1| mile), richest
weight-for-age event in this
country, as well as the Batman
Stakes, of £2OOO, for three-year-
olds, and two races each of
£l5OO, for two-year-olds.
The C. B. Fisher Plate in
earlier years was run at 2£
miles, later at two miles, then a
further cut was made (in 1900)
to the present mile-and-a-half.
There have been only extremely
small fields in some . years—
only two started in Wakeful’s
year (1902), again when
Mountain King won five years
later, when Artilleryman won in
1919 and when Veilmond won
in 1931 but winners have
included the best gallopers in the
land. The list includes Alawa,
Trafalgar, Tartan, Carlita,
Kennaquhair, Pantheon,
Amounis, Phar Lap, Ajax, High
Caste, Hydrogen (1952 and
1953) and Rising Fast (1954 and
1955).
Randwick trainer T. J. Smith
has had several two-year-old
winners already this season ; the
latest of them, Orient, a Mid-
stream (imp.)-Sweet Linnet
filly, cleared out with the
Maiden Stakes for fillies at
Canterbury, and with more
experience could develop staying
power, as she belongs to the
family which produced Avenger
and Swan River. She is a sister
to Nargoon, whose performances
fell a long way short of his
original cost as a yearling,
6500gns.
When racing, Bob Cherry
(imp.) was a striking individual
and a good winner. He won
half-a-dozen races in England
before coming to Australia, and
was here successful in Caulfield’s
Futurity Stakes. Now at the
stud, he’s made a good start;
his oldest progeny are two-year-
olds, and one of them, Jester,
won the Maiden Stakes (for two-
year-old colts and geldings) at
Canterbury Park. Dam of the
colt, Jesterine, is a sister to
“I insist on privacy !”
former speedster Trimmer (by
Pentheus from Little Mutt).
Gallant Emperor, winner of
the Second Ashbury Stakes at
Canterbury, is a half-brother to
well - performed Victorian
galloper Farquhar. He is by
Emperor (imp.) from Gallant
Bess (imp.) by Epigram (who
won the English Doncaster Cup
and the Goodwood Cup).
( Some months ago the three-
year-old filly L’Aurea was
switched from the Rosebery
stables of A. W. Tarran to those
of Canterbury mentor J. Den-
ham, who is experiencing a
remarkable run of success with
his horses, which have been
winning almost weekly, some-
times two or three of them in
the same week. Mandingos is
the star member of the team, and
he’s expected to continue his
winning sequence when next
produced. L’Aurea, a brilliant
galloper on the track, had fre-
quently displayed winning trials,
but had not acted up to them in
races. It was at her second
start for Denham that she very
easily won the Canterbury First
Ashbury Stakes. Still eligible
for restricted events, she should
quickly add to this success; she’s
a good sprinter.
E. A. Underwood (vice-
chairman of the V.R.C.) and
Dr. J. J. Power race in partner-
ship the Masthead (imp.) colt
Wambiri, winner of the Ipswich
(Q.) Maiden Juvenile Handicap.
Former jockey Bill Briscoe
trains the youngster, whose dam,
Chelsea, was got by Dhoti
(imp.) from Betheen by Devon-
shire (imp.). As he is closely
related to well - performed
Cromis, Wambiri could do well
on the racecourse.
* * *
Nine classy pacers went away
in the 12|-furlongs Northern
Free-for-AU, main event at the
Melbourne Showgrounds on
Friday night. Promising Rendral,
Prince Regent, consistent South-
port and Sydney mare Powerful
Lady tough opposition,
but three old-stagers, Sparkling
Max, Illawarra Wrack and
Gentleman John, led them in.
Sparkling Max has been a
handy old moke for a long time,
and while they continue to put
on free-for-alls, he’ll be there to
torment them. The free-for-all,
Since, it’s a non-penalty event,
will always attract good fields.
And horses that wouldn't
ordinarily be meeting—up-and-
coming youngsters and old
handicappers—go in to prove
their class ; as well, horses such
as Sparkling Max, already on a
very tight mark and-not wanting
to make it any tighter, appreciate
the non-penalty clause. Sydney’s
trotting could well be brightened
with a leaf out of Melbourne’s
book in this direction.
• • ® •
One of last season’s three-year-
olds who always showed a lot of
dash but combined with it bad
barrier-antics and an awkward-
ness in his races that ruled him
out before he started, the Noble
Scott horse Noble Western,
made no bones about leaving the
tapes in his Qualifying at Harold
Park on Friday; and when he
was asked, by an easing of the
reins, to leave the rest of the
field, he did that without any
ado, too. A formidable-looking
dark bay, he has furnished-up
into a nice sort, with a lot of
races due to crumble under his
hooves in the near future.
+ +
Another “international”
athletic meeting was held on
Saturday, this time at Pucka-
punyal (Vic.), more famous as a
training-ground for war than for
the games of peace. Still, maybe
its choice has significance. Any-
way, the meet produced some
top-rate performances—though
it wasn’t, of course, a sure guide
to gold-medal prospects. One or
two good efforts were Hec
Hogan’s winning of the 100yds.
in 9.95ec.; the mile win in 4min.
4.Bsec., excellent time in the con-
ditions, by Merv Lincoln, who in
recent runs has been regularly
following Bailey home (James,
expected again to win, on this
occasion came in third); and the
winning of the three-miler by
the consistent Allan Lawrence.
Some of Australia’s Olympic
reps have been turning-in fine
performances in their train-
ing. One such effort of note
was swimmer John Monckton’s
4min. 59.25ec. for the 400-
metres backstroke—first time
ever that smin. had been broken
for that distance backstroke in
an Olympic-course pool.
Another is “Chilla” Porter’s 6ft.
10in. high-jump, lfin. better
than his Australian record ;
after which leap he became the
first Australian to attempt the
bar at 7ft. —though he didn’t
clear it. At Moore Park
(Sydney), in a club event, Naval
man Charlie Morris set a new
Australian hammer-throw
record of 177 ft. 3ft.
10|in. better than Tom Mullins’s
1952 record.
“Atala”: New Australians did
well at the recent S.A. fencing
titles. A young German, Alfred
Kail, who came to Australia less
than a year ago, won the foil,
a Hungarian, A. Domjan, won
the sabre (for the second suc-
cessive year), and an Italian, C.
Chiantore, won the junior sabre.
Apropos, at the Games, a
Dutchman, H. van Dijk, will
captain Australia’s epde team,
and Australia’s four sabre
representatives are all
Hungarians.
* * *
A U.S. Armed Services base-
ball-team will play Australia in
Melbourne on Dec. 1, as a
“demonstration” game at th»
Olympic Games. It will also
play other matches while out
here, including three games
against N.S.W. in Sydney. The
other of the two “demonstra-
tion” games permitted by the
rules to be staged at the Games
will be Australian Rules, and
two teams (of amateurs only, of
course) are training in Mel-
bourne so as to put on what, it
is hoped, will be justly described
as a “spectacular exposition” of
the National code.
* * *
Playing the brand of golf
that has made him three times
British Open champ., Australian
Peter Thomson didn’t leave the
issue in doubt in the £2500
Pelaco 90-hole tournament
played in Sydney last week; he
had rounds of 66, 69, 68, 73, 73
for an aggregate 349 —seven
strokes clear of the field. Young
Sydney big-hitter Frank Phillips
was runner-up, two strokes
ahead of two other locals, Len
Woodward and Kel Nagle, who
tied for third. Visiting golfers—
a variety from America,
Belgium, New Zealand and
South Africa —didn’t get above
a canter.
* * *
W.A., on its Eastern States
tour, has been making a fair
enough showing so far; though
neither S.A. nor Victoria was,
of course, at top strength. Two
of the Westerners’ stars have
been their ex-Victorian skipper,
Ken Meuleman, with a couple
of dogged innings—he should
have forced the pace more
towards the end of his long
innings against S.A., which
failure to do was partly respon-
sible for the disappointing,
uninspiring final day of that
game—and Perth University’s
captain - coach Ray Strauss,
whose medium-pace bowling
seems to have become more
penetrative this year.
“K.R.”: George Murray, the
coach at Hassett’s cricket-school
singled-out (B. 31/10/’56) as not
having played Shield cricket,
nevertheless knows a wrinkle or
two about the game. He’s also
at present captain-coach of
Footscray, and by report is
doing a good job there. Apropos
of Murray, a Melbourne
“Herald” writer recently noted
the odd fact that in the past
four seasons he has the first
two times totalled 341 runs at
an average of 28.41 (both years
14 innings, 2 not-outs) and the
past two seasons 515 runs, at
34.33 (17 innings, 2 not-outs and
19 innings, 4 not-outs).


Between
Ourselves
\vUk
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Assimilation Issues in W.A.
The New Australian Country
By GAVIN CASEY
SLABS of this continent have
long been labelled “the
buffalo cou n t r y,” “the
channel cou n t r y,” “the
kangaroo, country” and so forth.
To these should now be added
“the New Australian country,”
which lies in lumps, strips
and wedges all over the place—
here in Western Australia
notably in the tobacco, timber
and mixed-farming areas around
Manjimup and Pemberton in
the South-West.
Manjimup is a drowsy, slow-
moving place during the week,
but on Saturday morning, when
the people are in from the
timbermills and bush camps,
the farms and the plantations, it
seethes. It’s as hard to find
parking-space for your car as it
is in Perth, and harder to find
space to walk along the footpath.
And when Manjimup seethes,
it does so in most of the
languages of Europe. A rough
check suggests that three out of
four of the people in the street
were not born in any English-
speaking country, and as a
cosmopolitan centre Sydney’s
King’s Cross would be insigni-
ficant and unimportant beside
this small town two- or three-
thousand miles away in the
bush.
Of course, in Manjimup the
males tend to have corns and
calluses on their hands rather
than painted toenails, and when
they wear their hair long it looks
shaggy rather than effeminate.
The Europeans, like the Old
Australian men, are quite a
different sort of cattle from
Sydneysiders or Yarrabankers.
And you can get quite a bit
mixed-up in Manjimup.
On some recent wanderings in
the New Australian country I
several times saw, much further
along the bar, a young man who
seemed to have stepped out of
some modified and modernised
version of an Italian opera. He
looked exotic, but intensely
male, strictly in the Southern
European tradition.
He had a face like a good-
humored eagle, as mobile and
expressionful as it was swarthy.
He wore the sort of playsuit—
except that it was for work, not
play—that Winston Churchill
used to affect, but it hung on
his lean and muscular six-foot
frame like the uniform of a
or a mountain
bandit.
His hair was more plentiful
than that of most girls in the
bob-and-Eton-crop days of my
youth, but nothing less like a
girl could have been found for
miles. On his head he always
wore a beret at a fantastic,
tipped-back angle that made one
wonder how it stayed there at
all without the help of hatpins.
“Who’s the bloke?” I eventu-
ally asked a companion, being
offensively Old Australian
because, as I thought, this
splendid young man from Naples
or Rome so outshone the
ordinary, down-to-earth fellows
around him.
When I got the information,
it was something to think about.
He was as Old Australian as I
am, except in the years he has
personally lived. His name was
more-or-less Anglo-Saxon, and
his ancestry much to match,
except for the probable streak
of “black Irish” that gave him
the hawk-nose and the generally
swarthy-spectacular look. His
taste in dress was simply his own,
and it suited him as well as it
had deceived me.
In contrast, when I asked a
cove who looked like a rather
badly-dressed ex-jockey from
Woolloomooloo where to catch
the bus, he grinned like a minor
Steele Rudd character and said,
“D’ buzz, meester? I donna
know. I justa get-offa buzz, boot
I donna know where, meester.”
That’s how it is, these days,
in the New Australian country,
and it’s nice to be able to report
that it is also good-humored.
In the broad scene the two
sorts of Australians live their
own lives and have their own
circles of friends, and sometimes
puzzle each other more than
somewhat, but there’s no sub-
stantial animosity.
This particularly pleased me,
because more than 20 years ago
I reported for a Perth newspaper
what was known as “the Kal-
goorlie riots.” There and then
animosity was so substantial it
became white-hot, and cast a
glow high in the sky when the
dwelling and possessions of many
innocent people were burned,
and it was more by luck
than judgment that all the
bullets and jamtin-bombs ,
that were flying about
didn’t kill more than a
couple of people.
There’s no sign of any-
thing like that brewing in
the New Australian
country, but I wasn’t too-
reassured. Such brews
mature very quickly, and
the fermenting agent of
unemployment has
already been tossed into
the vat in Western Aus-
tralia’s South-west.
A few timber mills have
closed. Some pits have
been shut-down on the
Cojlie coalfield. Only a
percentage of the tobacco
grown last year was sold.
If a foreigner works next
to you on the job it is
easy to like him. But
if he works in the job you
think should be yours
while you hunt for some
toil, then he becomes a
“bloody Dago” instead of a New
Australian.
Economically, things have been
worse in Western Australia than
in other States this past winter.
That doesn’t mean they've been
very bad, but there aren’t degrees
of badness for the man who
happens to be out of work. After
an upsurge of Government and
private building that has just
about beaten the housing-short-
age things have gone flat.
Many men who if offered a
job at the award-rate a year or
two back would have said,
“What do you think I am, a
New Australian or something?”
would now be glad of the money
the Arbitration Court has put on
its list. A good many of the
New Australians themselves are
out of work, and they’re no
more contented than anybody
else who loses his source of
income and can’t find another.
It’s bad enough to have made
Sir Arthur Fadden loosen the
Federal purse-strings to let State
Premier Hawke have some more
money to spend on works that
will mean increased employ-
ment.
Anyway, so far all is as well
as can be expected in the New
Australian country. Well-meant
efforts to assimilate the immi-
grants sometimes work and some-
times don’t, but even where New
Australian groups remain
separate and aloof there’s a
sensible attitude of “live and
let live” on both sides.
The children of the foreign
families are, as always, becoming
truly Australian in language, out-
look and everything else in next
to no time, but the trouble with
the older people is the European
attitude to women, and the
European women’s attitude to
the world. \
However much Dad may mix
with the mob on the job, in the
pub and in the club, Mum
belongs in the kitchen and to the
old language, the old ways, the
old faith, and the old country.
Dad learns the new language,
but she doesn’t, because he’s
generally around to translate for
her. Mum may be a martinet
in the home, but under the public
eye in the streets she is always
meek, modest, submissive to
male authority, and uninterested
in “things that don’t concern
her.”
The least inhibited men —the
roarers, laughers, singers,
weepers and cursers on the job
and in male company—and the
most arrogant and dictatorial
husbands are heavily influenced
by this domestic atmosphere, 1
“He does have a kind of rugged appeal to Women”
and mainly because of it the
public celebrations of the various
nations, which happen twice a
year or so, are apt to be a bit
of a shock to Old Australians.
Peasant gaiety? Dancing and
singing under the sky? Folk-
songs to an accompaniment of
popping wine-corks? Melodious
declarations of passion by
tenors whose high notes make
the gumtips quiver? Knife
duels as a finale on the moonlit
banks of the gurgling creek?
Not a bit of any of it!
They just walk around, three
times as stiff and formal as any
Englishman taking his pleasures
sadly could possibly be. The
men sit and talk. The women
stand and talk. Children who
yell or run get reproving looks,
and young girls parade without
either giggles or make-up, though
often heavy with petticoats, ear-
rings, bangles, and gloom.
The loudest roarer on the saw-
bench is stiff and silent now.
He wears a suit, that looks as if
it were made of galvanised-iron,
and his collar and tie are so
very, very respectable that he
has the appearance of wearing
at least three collars and four or
five ties.
His boots gleam so magnifi-
cently that they reflect his face
—but it is a stern, formal face
from which all the lines of good-
humor and goodwill have been
erased. He looks like a decadent,
Continental - model hanging
judge—and nobody would be
much surprised if he hanged his
wife or one of his children at
any moment for some small
breach of the prevailing discip-
line.
In the privacy of their homes
the New Australians do, of
course, relax, and sometimes
carry on in a loosely lunatic
manner that even the Old Aus-
tralians of Lennie Lower’s
Here’s Luck! couldn’t beat by
much. But under the public eye,
when in family-groups, they act
as though the only religion in
the Continent and the many
countries of their origin was
wowserism.
On the job, employers report,
the New Australians average-
out well as workers, but not
quite as well as some non-
employers might think. At first,
like most new brooms, they
gather up every speck of dust,
but in a lot of cases the straws
soon thin-out.
Their behavior doesn’t differ
much from what would be that
of an Qld Australian who got a
job somewhere in Italy or
Germany. He’d be the most
diligent bloke around the place
until he found what lurks were
safe and legitimate, and so are
they. Once they’ve learned when
it’s safe to get tired, they can
get tired as quickly as any Old
Australian.
They can “go for the boss,”
too, when they discover the
reasons for attacking him that
will have the approval of the
crowd, instead of merely puzzling
them.
It all adds-up to the fact that
both New and Old Australians
are human, but there are com-
plicating factors. For one thing,
we Old Australians think the
country belongs to us, just as the
abos. thought a while back. The
newies think they own whatever
little bits of it they have managed
to buy or rent, and that they’re
entitled to make the best use of
them they can.
What we need most to absorb
the New Australians is time —
and that means prosperous times,
not hard times. Meanwhile, one
major trouble is that most of
them are males. When Henrietta
Drake-Brockman wrote Men
Without Wives her eyes were on
the north, where white men can
rule a million acres on which
the only women are black. In
the south these days there are
fair stretches of New Australian
country where the men so out-
number the women that it isn’t
funny. Most men will work for
faraway dreams for a number of
years, but after that they need
a wife and family, or at least a
reasonable hope of them soon,
to toil for.
Nothing more disturbs some
who have the wellbeing of the
New Australians at heart than
the way we are bringing in
unmarried males but no young
women worth talking about, and
already it leads to occasional
small incidents of an unpleasant
nature.
On one occasion one of the
buses on which I travelled
between the towns stopped very
abruptly in the middle of
nowhere, and all in the front
seats wondered why. The
reason, it turned out, was that a
very drunk New Australian at
the back was pestering an
unescorted and unwilling
woman.
The bus-driver got properly
tough, and brought the business
to an end, with the approval of
all passengers. But some others
as well as myself felt sorry for
the New Australian, I’m sure.
He hadn’t acted that way because
he was a New Australian, but
just because he was a lonely man
and full of grog. And there
are such things as reluctant girls
who lose their reluctance —when
a bus-driver isn’t watching them
in the rear-vision mirror.
But such incidents as that one
happen seldom, and the people
of different backgrounds live
side-by-side happily enough in
the New Australian country, as
time slides along towards the day
when the New Australians will
have aged themselves quietly out
of the scene and we’ll all truly
belong together, dark-skinned or
fair, and with names that are
English, Italian, Scottish, Dutch.
Irish, Greek or anything else.
In the meantime the New Aus-
tralians do make it hard for the
local breed sometimes. For
instance, on another bus on
which I rode the driver demanded
tickets, but what he got from
two men who had no useful
English was a brace of tickets
in the State lottery!
No amount of argument could
persuade the pair that the driver
didn’t want just any old ticket,
but had to have a special sort,
and a couple of our latest citizens
looked like being launched on a
long walk. Luckily for them an
old lady who must have been a
close observer had noticed that
they had been originally three,
and that the one who had held
tickets for them all had got off
a few miles back.
And in one of the New Aus-
tralian towns a highly-educated
New Australian who had learned
his English late in life, and had
a mighty vocabulary but a poor
accent, left a telephone-message
for me. When I got it, it was
to the effect that there were some
good articles on assimilation of
new population in certain issues
of “Callender fair Bulletin.”
This got me hunting-up The
Bulletin’s last Sydney Show
issue. It turned out to be the
“Current Affairs Bulletin,” pub-
lished by the Adult Education
authorities!


Faith lit Ihc
Futture
\
■
Professor Alexander Johnston, a specialist in
Wyoming University’s Agricultural Experiment
Station, has described Australia’s system of
producing and preparing wool for market as the
most efficient of its type in the world.
Such a tribute should remind us that in the
wool industry we have something of which we
can be proud.
It was the cross-breeding of the first few
Spanish merinos with Indian sheep already in the
infant colony that produced the fine, long staple
which was to command the world’s attention.
The flocks were multiplied, the plains were
taken to depasture them, and today it is estimated
that no fewer than 130 million sheep are spread
across half a million square miles of this continent.
Giving an average clip of about 1200 million
pound in greasy weight, they provide the world
with one-third of all its wool wants; with two-thirds
of its requirements in fine merino fleece.
The cheque that comes back in hundreds of
millions of pounds a year is the main support to
Australia’s economy. Wool exports have been
earning us almost half of our total income from
overseas. In some years the figure has been above
50 per cent. Only once in the last 53 years has it
been below 30 per cent.
This achievement has not come easily. Like
all great fields of endeavour, the wool industry
has met its trials; but it has risen, despite all of
them, to its present state of world-admired
efficiency.
The credit rests with the leadership of the
sheep men; with the skill of the pastoral research
workers, the breeders, the shearers, the wool-
classers; and with organisations, in Government
and in the industry itself, that have been established
for its constant improvement.
They bear a tremendous trust, for wool will
continue to be the foundation of our prosperity—
and it will take Australia on to still greater days
if we guard and cherish it now.
//
r ee*uv
7
are
your
savings
<982
Investment in
GENERAL
CREDITS LTD.
offers big returns
Short Term
12 months
per cent
5
» " - 4i
6" - 4
3” - H
Long Term
First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange.
Cumulative stock carrying 6 \% com-
pounded on yearly rests with currencies
of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus available all
branches of The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited, Members of Stock
Exchanges and Offices of the company.
Bankers for the issue :
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANK OF
AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
This is not a Prospectus
and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe
for the debenture stock
mentioned herein.
DIRECTORS :
Sir John Newman-
Morris, C.M.G.
(Chairman), V. H.
Stanley-Low (Man-
aging), J. M. Ford,
E. W. Cox, John
Glen, Eric Hughes,
J. F. Hughes, F. G.
Menzies, C.8.E.,
H. F. Clarke.
Underwriters : |« B. WERE & SON
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET SATELLITES
T ONDON “Time and Tide”
assessment of the signifi-
cance of the confusion and
uprisings in Eastern Europe:
“The Soviet Union’s vast and
cumbrous Empire, sustained by
a system of Communist satellite
tyrannies in Eastern Europe, is
under vigorous challenge—not
because the tyrannies have any
intention of abandoning their
fiercely bought hegemony, but
because the satellite status
accorded to the subject countries
by their Russian overlords has
proved too humiliating and too
pauperous to be tolerated, both
by the peoples concerned and by
the regimes themselves.
“The recognition of this basic
fact is essential to any under-
standing of the crisis (and it is a
very real crisis) which has come
upon Communist - dominated
Eastern Europe. The revolts, in
Poznan and in Warsaw and in
Budapest, are in a sense leader-
less; they have a quality of
heroic anguish about them, with
unarmed men, women, youths
and children flinging themselves
in front of the rifles and machine-
guns of their oppressors. Both
the . Germans and the Russians
did their utmost in Poland and
in Hungary to stamp out all
leaders, of whatever class or
background landowning, Ser-
vice, professional or religious—
and in large measure they
succeeded,
“Meanwhile it is at least clear
that a torrent of forces has been
unleashed which the Russians
are not able to control without
the direct and relentless use of
force—the kind of action which,
in the Eastern Mediterranean, in
Algeria or in Kenya, would
provoke a clamorous outburst of
protest from Mr. Nehru and
Mr. Krishna Menon.
“The Kremlin's collective
leadership has certainly shown
no sign of being reluctant to use
force. The Soviet authorities
would like to avoid the stigma
of open repression, but such
considerations are not likely to
weigh very heavily against the
dangers of allowing any sort of
rebellion to triumph. The Krem-
lin may well feel that to appear
weak now would be fatal. If
so, the means of physical repres-
sion are at hand: the Soviet
army is quite capable of crush-
ing any opposition which can be
brought against it from inside
the satellite States.
“The collective leadership is
under no illusions as to what is
at stake. This is not, at the
moment, the stability of the
regime within the Soviet Union
itself ; it is the integrity of the
Empire in its marches. Euro-
peans—hungry, decimated, im-
poverished, hounded by police
persecution and cowed by years
of military occupation—have still
the flame of their own history,
their own traditions burning in
the ashes and the sombre ruins
of their civilisation.
“The pay - off of those
boisterous, anti - imperialist
propaganda jaunts of Mr. Bul-
ganin and Mr. Khrushchev has
a good deal of very tough irony
about it. Shackled though their
own newspapers and radio may
be, the peoples of the satellite
States have not been entirely
without news of what has been
happening. The leaders of the
Soviet Union are being taught
the simple lesson which they
have never hesitated, in their
cups or out of them, to bellow
and snarl at the West: that
you cannot preach liberation
and enfranchisement abroad and
practise slavery in your own
domains. The enslaved hear and
react.” ,
Japan and Russia
British and American press-
comment on . the agreement
which ended the technical state
of war between Japan and
Russia:
“New York Times”: “The
Soviet Union’s six-day war
against Japan is now to come to
an official close, 11 years later.
Premier Hatoyama has reached
and signed an ‘agreement’ in
Moscow. It isn’t exactly a peace-
treaty, yet. That still has to be
negotiated. But the state of
hostilities is now at an end.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“What did each nation gain in
this agreement? The U.S.S.R. said
it would support the Japanese
application for admission to the
United Nations which it has
vetoed in the past; agreed to
release and repatriate all Japanese
prisoners- of-war it still holds;
renounced any claims to repara-
tions (which would be ridiculous
anyway in view of the one short
week in which it was actually at
war with Japan), and granted the
Japanese certain fishing-rights
in North Pacific waters which it
controls.
“Japan, on the other hand,
opened its doors to the usual
large Soviet diplomatic mission
which will do its utmost to
promote Communist propa-
ganda ; failed to get any agree-
ment on the return of the two
Kurile islands, Etorofu and
Kunashiri, which are actually
part of Japan proper; and
obtained only a promise that
Shikotan and the Habomai
islands, which Moscow had con-
ceded in advance, would be
transferred after a peace-treaty
had been signed.”
* * *
“Manchester Guard i a n ” :
“Japan’s agreement with Russia
was meant by the Japanese
Government to save as much
face as possible and to end the
inconveniences which the dead-
lock in the peace negotiations
had caused. Russia used skil-
fully its superior bargaining
position. The agreement is not
a peace-treaty; the fate of the
disputed islands is to be settled
later. But diplomatic relations
between Japan and Russia are
now to be restored, and Japan
can look forward to being a
member of the United Nations.”
* * *
London “E con omi s t”
“Diplomatic relations are to be
restored; but the Japanese
Cabinet’s faith in Soviet
diplomacy has caused it to
strengthen security measures in
preparation for expected espion-
age by the Soviet Embassy staff.
(The Japanese believe that Mr.
Tikhvinsky, the head of the
Soviet fishery mission in Tokyo,
is a senior officer of the secret-
police.)
“The clause dealing with
Japanese citizens now detained
in Russia will not arouse
enthusiasm; 1365 war-criminals
are to be repatriated, but the
Soviet Union promises no more
than to ‘attempt to elucidate’ the
fate of the 11,177 Japanese who
disappeared when Manchuria
was overrun. Their relatives
will hardly be reassured by this
promise. There is also a certain
irony in the clause by which the
Russians renounce all claim to
reparations since they seized
$2OOO-million-worth of equip-
ment after their one-week
campaign in Manchuria.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” :
“Hardly a clause in the declara-
tion does not contain some vast
loophole. The pious remarks
about fishing resources could
mean anything or nothing. The
section on trade leaves Russia
free to impose crippling tariffs
on Japanese goods. Russia has
given up hardly any of her
bargaining counters in exchange
for the great prize of a diplomatic
bridgehead in Japan. Each
reservation is a point of pressure
which Russia retains for use in
the great future effort to swing
Japan out of the anti-Communist
bloc.”
Japanese Shipbuilding
Commenting on the latest
Lloyd’s Register shipbuilding
returns, which show Japan and
Germany taking the lead from
Britain, Oscar Hobson notes in
London “News Chronicle” that
in the quarter to end-September
the U.K. yards completed
245,000 tons of ships, the
Japanese yards 417,000 tons—
very nearly 75 per cent, more—
and the German yards 282,000
tons, say 15 per cent. more.
“For ships launched —which
will become ships completed in
the next few months—the story
is not very different: Britain
and Northern Ireland 284,000
tons, Japan 498,000 tons.
Germany 278,000 tons.”
To emphasise the full signifi-
cance of these figures, Hobson
adds that “two years ago, at
September 30, 1954, Japan had
under construction less than one-
tenth, and Germany less than
one-third, the tonnage that the
U.K. had. Even today the
tonnage under construction in
our yards slightly exceeds that
in Japan and Germany together.
“But it is no use having a large
tonnage under construction if
you can’t turn out the ships. It


How to sharpen
your judgment
“To avoid the foolish opinions
to which mankind is prone, no
superhuman genius is required.
A few simple rules will keep
you, not from all error, but from
silly error,” says Nobel Prize
winner Bertrand Bussell. In
November Header’s Digest, the
famous British philosopher offers
six suggestions to help you form
sound opinions.
Then there’s “Your brain’s
unrealised powers”; “How won-
derful you are”; “What your
sense of humour tells about
you”; “Britain’s indestructible
‘Old Man’” — a wealth of
absorbing articles condensed
from leading magazines and
current books, in November
issue. Wonderful reading value
at only two shillings, at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales* Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built*
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE *
ADELAIDE
PERTH ,
Vf. C. Penfold St Co. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
4
a pexMpr
IMPj
CLOTH
tailored t
\
CrusaberCloth
A suit that fits, and fits comfortably, is
naturally what every man wants and
NEEDS. For many years it was only
possible to obtain such a suit by the old
yet very sound method of visiting a
tailor. That meant, naturally, careful
measuring, try-ons, more try-ons, and
eventually you had your suit.
In an endeavour to provide those who
wish a suit PRE-TAILORED, READ\
FOR SERVICE, Stamina, ten years ago,
set out to virtually master-tailor a suit
that any man COULD and would be
happy and proud to wear.
Using an exclusive Pure Wool, Crusader
Worsted Cloth, Stamina has produced
for you a De-Luxe Suit in Double-
breasted style, at a price that makes it
an economy for you to buy NOW.
This is certainly a value-wise man’s best
buy, and there is a size to fit you. There
is only a limited supply, so call in as
early as you can.
ASK FOR
Stamina fy •
D-B putts
TAILORED FROM A SPECIAL CRUSADER CLOTH
59.113
London “Daily Express”
"I CAN GO FOR MY GUN IF I DROP MY FIG-LEAVES ”
ts no use having a huge order-
book —which is what we have.
“Why,” Hobson adds, “should
one assume that we [Britain]
have yet seen the worst of
Japanese—or German —compe-
tition in shipbuilding?
“And why should one assume
that this is the only British
industry round which Germany
and Japan, and very likely other
countries, are going to run rings
unless we pull up our socks very
drastically and very soon?”
On the same subject, Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” adds that “a
report issued by the Japanese
Ministry of Transport also points
to the parallel expansion that is
taking place in Japanese ship-
ping. It is expected that by next
year the target planned for 1959
will have been achieved, and
that the Japanese merchant-fleet
will have regained its pre-war
size.”
Detailing some of the reasons
for the boom in Japanese ship-
building, Peter Duff, editor of
“The Shipping World,”
comments that “since 1950 some
£2O million has been spent on
reorganising the shipyards to
speed up production by adopting
the latest prefabrication methods;
and when the world-wide rush to
order new merchant-ships, par-
ticularly tankers, ore-carriers and
other bulk-carriers, began at the
end of 1954 all available berth-
capacity (of which there was
plenty in Japan) was absorbed.
“As British berth-capacity
became booked with orders for
long periods ahead, the attrac-
tions of earlier delivery from
other countries, particularly
Japan, became marked. When
orders were still scarce in Japan,
too, the yards were able to add
the extra bait of fixed contract-
prices.
“The absence of naval work,
and the existence of berths
capable of building the world’s
largest warships, also became
valuable assets when independent
tanker-owners and operators of
ore-carriers began to think in
terms of very large vessels, of
50,000-tons deadweight and
upwards.
“These are the principal
factors which have contributed
to the remarkable expansion of
shipbuilding in Japan.”
Norway's Ships
Norway is another country
which has made a notable post-
war recovery in its merchant-
fleet, Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun”
pointing out that “In 1939
Norway boasted a merchant-fleet
of 4,700,000 tons, which was
outranked only by the fleets of
the United Kingdom, the United
States and Japan. War-losses
reduced it to 2,500,000 tons.”
“Today Norway has a fleet of
eight-million tons, nearly double
that of her pre-war merchant-
marine. She now ranks third,
being exceeded only by the
United States and the United
Kingdom.
“Norway’s shipyards have a
capacity of around 150,000 tons
a year, part of which is devoted
to the construction and repair
of ships of other nations. There-
fore, Norway depends on foreign
shipyards for the construction of
many of the ships destined for
her merchant-fleet.
“An indication that her fleet is
still growing are contracts total-
ling 4,000,000 tons which
Norway-has made for ships still
not delivered. Of this amount
2,500,000 tons were contracted
for during the past year. Of
her fleet, 60 per cent, are tankers.
“After the suffering Norway
endured in a war which was not
of her making and in which she
contributed so much to the Allied
cause, it is good to see such a
rapid comeback.”
Univac Scientific
1103A
Commenting on U.S guided-
missile progress, the U.S.
industrial correspondent of
London “Financial Times” notes
Lonuuu j-uicunacti luiira iiuica
that “a new, faster-acting
electronic brain will soon be
placed in operation to help solve
some of the problems involved
in developing intercontinental
ballistic missiles by the Lock-
heed Aircraft Corporation.
“It is described as the first of
its kind, and is known as the
Univac Scientific 1103 A.
The device is said to be the
first capable of interrupting one
complex problem to solve
another of greater priority, while
still retaining in its ‘mind’ all
the work done on the first prob-
lem, so as to take up the solu-
tion of this at the point where it
was left.
“The Univac Scientific can
perform 41 different operations
involving arithmetic and logic,
It can add 30,000 numbers in
one second, ‘remember’ over 5
4000 words each the equivalent
of a 10-digit number, and recall
the number in eight-millionths
of a second ; recall any of 16,000
or so words in 17-thousandths of
a second. It can detect its own
errors and correct them and
write out complete answers.
“The ‘brain’ can receive its
instructions in the form either
of magnetic tape, punched
cards, punched paper-tape, or
manually. It is being used by
Lockheed in analysing flight-
performance of the X-7 ramjet
missile and the hypersonic
missile for intercontinental use
developed by the company.”
Jordan
The results of the Jordan
election anti-Western, as ex-
pected—moved a fairly repre-
sentative section of the British
press to reflect on the value of
the Anglo-Jordanian treaty —
under which “Britain supplies
more than two-thirds of
[Jordan’s] national revenue”
(London “Daily Telegraph”).
A London “Economist” writer
notes that “not a single candidate
(in the elections) publicly
defended the Anglo - Jordan
Treaty; to do so would have
been politica1 ’ physical,
su icide,” and, in editorial
comment the “Economist” adds
fut j Conomst aad » s
Se it fth^treatvfask’anc^^what
is g its Talue to Britain?”
«. „ Z ,
u Jordanians (except when
? ° 8 t £ ffice *• an , d actua }
be
b f which onl Britain 8 derives
benefit In foct th was neve?
todly jSn*f by to
the bigger beneficiary. Britain
could dispense with the treaty
at a loss that would be infinitesi-
mal compared to Jordan’s,
“For Britain to withdraw from
the Anglo - Jordanian treaty
forthwith would be a mistake,
for it would look like pique
where no pique is felt. But £l2
million a year is a big sum to
pay for two small R.A.F. bases
on the territory of an ally whose
people have shown so clear a
distaste for British company.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Driver Education
A report on driver-education prepared
by Mr. Hugh King, principal research-
officer of the N. S. Wales Department of
Technical Education, contains more
commonsense than anything I have read
on how to make our roads and streets
safer. He recommends that all high-
school pupils of legal age should be taught
to drive according to an officially accepted
plan, his theory being that persons taught
in this way will drive safely by instinct
and not merely because there may be a
policeman around the corner.
King says that many controllable
factors contribute towards road-accidents,
but the major cause is the road-user—
driver, rider and pedestrian. The cause
of the majority of road-accidents may be
reached by education, he says, but not by
any other means. And we’re not doing
anything about that at the moment in
N. S. Wales.
King argues that good attitudes are the
greatest single factor in eliminating road-
accidents. This is the approach behind
driver-education, which aims at develop-
ing a sense of social responsibility and at
linking courtesy, co-operation, patience
and tolerance with driving-skills and
driving-situations. Statistics show that
in America, where roads and cars are very
good, only 15 per cent, of accidents come
from mechanical- or road-defects. The
remaining 85 per cent, are due to the
man behind the wheel.
King maintains that you cannot enforce
tolerance nor can you gain courtesy
simply by appealing for it without
teaching the meaning of courtesy
in actual driving-situations. Driver-
education, he says, does not merely appeal
for courtesy —it does not merely say
“drive safely.” It teaches courteous
behavior and safe practices together with
driving-skills in real driving-situations.
Teaching the mechanical skills of
driving does not of itself produce safe
drivers. Appeals for safe-driving are
equally ineffective. By contrast, driver-
education has been proven to be highly
effective in reducing road-accidents —in
some United States areas where the
scheme has been adopted insurance com-
panies grant substantially lower premiums
to family-cars driven by persons who have
passed the test.
King’s report will come before the
N.S.W. Government in due course. I
hope Premier Cahill acts on it. —M. F. D.
(N.S.W.).
Perth Transport
“C.A.L.’s” description of Perth’s pas-
senger-transport system as “State-owned”
(B. 17/10/’56) is premature. Only those
greeny-yallery vehicles are Government
property as yet. The ones that move the
bulk of the passenger-traffic, and do it
so cleanly, politely and punctually, are
private-enterprise jobs, company-owned.
They carry “owner’s colors.”
Westralia’s Labor Government has
plans about this. Amalgamation of all
metropolitan passenger-transport under
one public authority is advocated in the
1955-56 report of the State Transport
Board. Under any scheme for the forma-
tion of a single authority controlling
passenger-transport, the integration of
existing services would need to be carried
out progressively—so the Minister for
Transport (Mr. Graham) said in the Legis-
lative Assembly on October 24 this year.
—Apemantus (W.A.).
Public-service Cuts
“Vingter” (B. 31/10/’56) is right—l am
a working journalist and, in 33 years of
it, I have consistently worked longer
hours than those stipulated for public
servants, without ever having or seeking
that kind of security whijffi enables lazy
public servants to dodge the nemesis
which would await them in outside
employment.
Stopping recruitment for the public
service would certainly mean that boys,
after two or three years’ service, would
still have to do some messenger-jobs. It
might also be found that much of this
work could be eliminated. Most depart-
ments, if told firmly by their Ministers
that they had to do their utmost to main-
tain service to the public without filling
vacancies and without working over-
time, would declare it was impossible.
Then they would discover that real appli-
cation to the job by everybody for the
whole of the working day—perhaps with
two or three more hours a week under
a new award —would get all necessary
tasks done.
The gradual wastage would cut staffs
appreciably, with consequent savings,
and it would also demonstrate that many
desk-jobs exist mainly because the
immediate boss has been anxious to
build-up his own authority, prestige and
grading.
I have had a good deal to do with
many public servants, and have found
most of them eager to assist me in my
job, well-informed and efficient in their
own tasks. I have seen their salary-
ranges move dramatically from unjustly
low rates to amounts which, considering
everything, are too high by comparison
with those earned outside.
The punching of a bundy has nothing
to do with loafing. I have been in many
p.-s. offices at the alleged starting-hour
and seen newspapers read and football
and racing discussed for at least half an
hour afterwards.
Some journalists doubtless loaf on their
jobs—although a good deal of news is
garnered or gleaned at what “Vingter”
describes as “pleasant gatherings.” Many
of the best stories in newspapers come
from a quiet yarn over a few beers.
It’s futile to suggest that the depart-
ments themselves or the Public Service
Board can overhaul departmental staffs
“MUST you be eating ice-cream when I kiss your hand?"
better than an independent committee of
businessmen. The figures of staff speak
for themselves. The pressure for larger
staffs is continuous, and few depart-
mental heads or Ministers are willing or
able to resist it. Anyone can think up
new functions for a department and put
more and more people at unproductive
d esks.
What Australia needs is more people
in productive industries. —ln the ACT
(A.C.T.).
The disclosure by the Institute of
Public Affairs that the Commonwealth
Government payroll has increased from
67,800 to 208,100 since 1939 won’t sur-
“On top of the load be damned! I'm ridin' with you blokes in the cabin!"
prise the average taxpayer. Nor will he
find much consolation in the fact that
State Government payrolls have only
increased by 65 per cent. It would be
just as hard to justify that increase. The
only bright spot in the report is in the
fact that municipal authorities have man-
aged to keep their increase down to 16
per cent.—a good effort, and one that
suggests a more responsible attitude
towards the public money.
But the most disquieting feature about
this increase m numbers is the power
it confers on the new civil service, and
the manner in which that powei
influences the individual employee The
old-time civil servant respected his
position in society, and although he
Sr T b lf, m J^' y V* -1 '5!
undoubted disadvantages of his job, he
weighed them against his seeunty an
found the scales tipped in his favor.
to gramWe atom, S S although hZtll
at its true worth. And his job, instead of
being a career, in many cases becomes a
backstop to another occupation which
provides a handy addition to his income.
The result is that civil servants now
occupy a wide variety of jobs in outside
employment. They work in betting-shops
and drive-in theatres and any other
occupations that don’t interfere too much
with their office-hours. They work on
newspapers on Saturdays, and write
sporting articles, ostensibly in their spare
time. It’s a fair bet that more than half
of the money earned at freelance
journalism in Australia goes to civil
servants. Many civil-service positions
automatically carry an additional salary
in the accepted right to submit articles
carrying the authority of the position.
The chairman of the Joint Committee
on Public Accounts said “The Common-
wealth public service needs a thorough
overhaul by experts.” Agreed, but who’ll
initiate the move? No political party
would dare offend the biggest organised
body of voters in the Commonwealth. —
SnntNTFR fW A 1
Squint er (W.AT
Butter
“J.J.A.” said there was only one grade
of butter made of three grades of cream
mixed together; now (B. 24/10/’56) he
tells an entirely different story. What he
calls “print butter” is butter cut into lib.-
pats and wrapped in printed paper.
Some factories do mix first and choicest
cream, but the result is a first-grade
butter, not a choicest, and the practice is
against regulations, anyway. Only a few
weeks ago I saw a Victorian Government
inspector reprove a manager for inferior-
grade print and caution him against
mixing grades.
As for the taste of bad cream destroying
a grader’s taste, or even impairing it for
five minutes—rubbish! In over 30 years’
experience I have known and worked
with nearly a hundred graders throughout
Victoria and have never known such a
thing. In fact, the reverse is the case,
A variety of grades and plenty of prac-
tice make a keener taste,
I once worked with a grader who
tasted over 2000 cans per week for about
10 years. I saw many tricks played on
him. He knew all the bad farmers cream,
and when they tried swapping cans, etc.,
he detected them instantly. Second-grade
is a very inferior cream.
And it’s plain silly to talk about farmers
always second-graded getting choicest
from another factory. The Victorian
Department of Agriculture keeps a staff
of trained inspectors to police regulations
and supervise tradesmen.
Any man as inefficient as “J.J.A.” sug-
gests would have his certificates cancelled
or suspended in quick time. S. C. M.
(Vic.).
Sound Judgment
Can tfae neral run of voters be
trusted to ive sound judgment (B.
10/10 / ’56)?
ques ,i on reminds me of an
election .^ eeting in 1949. 1 was on a
big Govemment job emp i o ying about
1200 men, and a militant union-organtser
’ f Me | bourne , 0 address a
me “ dn g
~w h| ’t manner o£ man is tUs Men zies
who asks you to make him Prime
Minister ? .. h ’ bawled . "When the interest
n tbe capitalist’s bonds was reduced
f t •
1«0, he opposed ft m MamMt ' Tt
„„„„„i„,
[Menzies] opposed the Pjj
ment-rehef tax to pay the dole. He said
w . e *»“« have a pool of starving unem-
ployed to discipline the worked! When
he came to power as a Mmister te first
f t was to reduce the old-age pension by
five-shillings a week. His second was to
reduce the basic wage by a pound a
we t fk- , , -. .. „„„
When those two huge capitalisfic con-
cerns, the A.M.P. and the National
M f uai Life, found themselves with extra
™ks on > account of the war, what did
they do? They increased their prennums
anc * reduced their bonuses. v.
Because Bob Menzies is a big share-
aJmost has controlling intei e
in both these companies. So they took
* out of the pockets of the workers under
orders from Pig-iron Bob, in order to
keep up his high rate of dividends. Shall
we give this bloodsucker the majority to
make him Prime Minister. Fel
workers, I say 'No.
banged the table and there \ i
thunderous and prolonged applause.
x was a staff man an d a non-unionist-
a gatecrasher at a union-meeting—and
did not dare betray my identity by asking
a question. But it was quite obvious that
of the 140 men at the meeting—a fair
cross-section of the 1200 men in camp—
no one knew that the State Governments
introduced unemployment-tax; that a
Labor Government reduced bond-
dividends and old-age pensions in 1931;
that the basic wage was altered by an
independent court; that R. G. Menzies
did not enter Federal Parliament til I L
1934 ; or that the A.M.P. and Nationa
Mutual Life Association are not
dividend-paying companies at all, and cer-
tainly didn’t increase the P^ mlum “
payable by their existing policyholders,
Can the general run of voters be trus
to give sound judgment?—S. C. M. i iw-


DEVELOP YOUR PROPERTY
£CofflM/CAiIY WITH
HUMES
CONCKCTt
%
Va
Humes centrifugally spun reinforced concrete
Troughing is practically everlasting. Among its
advantages are the ease of erection, needs no
maintenance, resistance to fire and cannot rust.
Available in lengths of 8 feet at competitive prices.
HUMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN:
Adamstown, Grafton, Harden, Lismore,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tamworth. H 3
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy^
osuuJvAv
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Yor*
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
PIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOIO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS l : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
WUNDERLICH SINKS
fiurihme: them all
m
The NEW
STAINLESS
STEEL
4252
SINKS
SEE THEM AT YOUR HARDWARE STORE
The brilliant NEW range of Wundetflck
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
fails in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piete
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
.over new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
if required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474„G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
Steam and Diesel
“Transporticus” might chew over the
following statement by Mr. Brownbill,
Victorian Railways chief, as reported in
the Melbourne “Herald” 24/10/’56:
Operating at a cost of 2s. 6d. a mile
compared with 13s. a mile for steam-
engines the locomotives (diesels) cost
£75,000 each, but paid for themselves
within two years.
So much for the economy angle of
diesels, but there is another argument —
a human one.
This is 1956, and the last century has
seen the displacement of such primitive
devices as the, bricklayers’ hod, the road-
workers’ pick and ill-ventilated, poorly
lit factories. Portable elevators, earth-
moving equipment and a human approach
to industrial architecture have become
accepted phases of our life, so why deny
the same emancipation to loco.-crews?
In my own eyes there are permanent
scars burned-in by red-hot cinders —a
trade-mark very few enginemen escape.
Further, the steam-loco, is the least
adaptable to efficient springing; it often
requires physical overexertion due to
cumbersome structure; it often means
working in a cab of discomforting
temperatures ; and it does not allow for
the healthy storage of food. It is not
surprising that an alarming number of
enginemen do not reach the retiring age.
Diesels remove most of these dis-
abilities and, at the same time, provide
for increased efficiency.— Four Threes
(Vic.).
“Transporticus” (B. 24/10/’56) is
somewhat out in his estimate of the
capital cost of diesel-electric locos when
he prices them at £200,000. I don’t
know what prices were paid in the other
States, but as far as N.S.W. is concerned
he could have bought two Alcos (C4O)
for that amount and have had sufficient
left for a couple of middies and his
bus-fare home. Those built by Clyde
may cost more or less, but as that
firm has been building for overseas in
competition with world-wide firms, it is
safe to say they would not cost anything
like the figure quoted by “T.”
For cost-comparisons we must take
the latest additions to steam (C3B, D 59
and D6O), all of which are priced very
close to the diesel-electrics. Add that to
the diesel’s low operating cost and great
mobility and they’re well to the front.
But it is in earning-capacity that the
d.-e. walks away from even the most
modern steam-locos. In this field the
ratio is four-and-a-half to one in favor
of d.-e., chiefly because of its very long
trips without need for servicing.
The Flying Scot’s long non-stop run
cannot be taken for comparison. In
previous years when the N.S.W. Rail-
ways used specially selected coal the
record of the Flying Scot could not be
challenged because of the ash-content of
N.S.W. coal —and this would be more so
now that the Coal Board allots the coal.
To all of us who served in steam in our
youth the beat of a steam-loco, will
always bring pleasant memories, but, as
the old seadog mourns the passing of sail,
so we must acknowledge that steam is on
the way out. —Y. Tope (N.S.W.).
The First Railway
Until quite recently there was
’ apparently no accurate information about
the world’s first railway. It was known
to have been constructed by William
Jessop, between Loughborough and
Nanpanton, with his newly-invented
“edge-rails” about the end of the 18th
century, but even such an eminent
“ Fellow-Workers ”....
historian as Samuel Smiles, biographer
of George Stephenson, says in his Lives
of the Engineers (1862): “In 1789
William Jessop constructed a railway at
Loughborough.”
Obviously this date is wrong, because
the Butterley Iron Works, where the
edge-rails and Jessop’s “railway flanged
wheels” were manufactured, were not
founded until 1790. Partners were
Benjamin Outram and William Jessop,
engineers, Francis Beresford, gentleman,
and John Wright, banker.
A communication (September 11, 1956)
from E. F. Wright, managing-director
of the present Butterley Company, Ltd.,
Ripley, agrees with the view that
1788-89 was the period of formulation
for Jessop’s invention of the edge-rail
and the railway flanged wheel.
Points of the inventions were: the
girderlike edge-rails (they were the first
of the “fish-bellied” rails) could stand
heavier loads than flat plates; and the
flanged wheels had an easier rolling
motion over the edge-rails. Over an
edge-railway one horse could draw nearly
twice what it could over a plateway.
To settle many of the legendary and
speculative accounts of this line, R.
Abbott recently undertook to examine
the books of the Leicester Navigation Co.,
the proprietors of the Loughborough and
Nanpanton Railway. In his little treatise
it is stated that the first load (coal) to
be hauled over the railway was
dispatched on October 24, 1794.
That important date marks the begin-
ning of the railway era, and no other era
ever did more to develop the world. —
R. B. (N.S.W.).
Decimal System
Who says that it has yet to be proved
that the decimal-system is superior to the
“inch - shilling - dozen” system (B.
31/10/’56)? Doesn’t “Burr Imul” ever
need to add up columns of money?
Even among accountants and bank-
clerks, there is not one man in twenty
who converts his pence to shillings as he
adds. When you- reach the bottom of
the column, you say, “Two-hundred-and-
ninety-three pence are —er —two, and —
twelve ...fours make forty-eight—er—
twenty-four and fivepence.” All that an
American does is shift the decimal-point
-—293 cents is 2.93 cellars.
If “B.I.” wants some practice, he might
calculate the cost of $45.73 at $2.2574 to
the £A. If it makes his calculations any
easier, one dollar is 106.317 pence. No
matter how you calculate it, you have
the awkward problem of converting
decimals of a pound to shillings and
pence. The same problem applies to
tons, cwts., qrs. and lbs., or miles, chains,
feet, and inches.
In decimal-systems you get the final
answer in almost half the time.
It is indeed fortunate that the newer
sciences, notably electricity and radio,
stick to a decimal-system. Their involved
calculations would otherwise become
almost impossible.— Mullum (N.S.W.).
Savings-bank Deposits
The “pivot of my criticism,” to borrow
“Cash Count’s” expression (B. 31/10/’56),
is that Government or semi-Government
concerns are simply not in the hunt when
it comes to competing with private enter-
prise—I don’t care whether it’s making
hot pies, running a shipping-line, bank-
ing, or anything else.
If “C.C.” can prove that savings-bank
managers chase business in the same way
as those of the trading-banks, then I’ll
be very happy to shout him a new money-
box. To illustrate: A large prize in one
of our many lotteries comes to a town
in which there are six banks. Five bank-
managers are waiting on the lucky
winner’s doorstep as soon as the result is
known. Only one is absent.
“C.C.” says that in pre-war days special
efforts were made by savings-bank men to
attract deposits by visiting factories and
so on. Why only in pre-war days? Those
days are 17 years ago and the need for
saving did not end then. The fact, as
stated by “C.C.,” that 27 new branches
have been opened by the State bank in
the last financial year simply shows that
representation was inadequate—other-
wise why the sudden activity?
The admission that competition is good
for banking is duly noted. The Govern-
ment banks are certainly getting it in
good measure. Perhaps the ultimate
result will be that the State banks
will be driven into the arms of the
Commonwealth Bank. —Ceg (Vic.).


m
'"s
'~v.
1
0
MORE FOR YOUR MONEY IN STYLE ...
More for your money
in wonderful road holding 9 too
Magnificent styling isn’t the only thing that you’ll like about the new Holden.
For part of the pleasure you’ll get out of driving this glorious new car is the sure
and steady way it holds the road.
One reason, of course, for this beautiful handling is the new recirculating
ball-type steering. Effortless and precise ... it’s a great boon both in traffic and on
the open road. Then there’s the new front suspension, new front stabiliser, and
the longer wheelbase of 105". You don’t have to drive far to sense the delightful
balance and sureness that these things give you on curves, in cross winds and
on corrugated roads.
Why not come in one of these sunny
spring days and drive a few miles in this
low-priced beauty. Then you’ll discover its
unseen charm —the built-in qualities that
make for safer, happier family motoring.
There are two ‘Air Chief' Car Radios specially
designed for the new Holden.
Convenient GMAC hire purchase arrangements.
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Car
UST PRICE FROM £9lO PLUS TAX
* Registered Trade Mark
U 240
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
pROFESSOR T. J. ROBINSON
-*■ has kindly sent The Bulletin
a handsome booklet on the
Department of Animal Hus-
bandry at Sydney University,
with the comment: “As this is
a new development in Australia’s
rural industry I thought you
might be interested.” The rais-
ing of the teaching of animal
husbandry to the status of a
department is new (although
there have been mutterings about
it for some time), and it is
interesting. The long - range
results could be very valuable
indeed.
“Animal Husbandry,” as the
booklet has it, “is the science of
the economical management of
the domestic animals. As such
its scope is extremely wide and
its students require a sound
training in general science as
well as in the fields of”:
(1) Disease-prevention and -control.
(2) Animal management, handling,
housing and day-to-day care.
(3) Animal physiology and bio-
chemistry, involving a clear under-
standing of the physiology and bio-
chemical processes involved in normal
functioning of the animal, with
particular reference to reproduction,
adaptation to environment, and all
production processes.
(4) Animal nutrition.
(5) Animal genetics, and breeding
plans and policies.
(6) The animal in relation to general
agricultural and pastoral pursuits.
(7) Pasture establishment, improve-
ment and maintenance.
(8) Rural economics.
(9) The nature of animal products
and their technology.
(10) Animal production the
application of science in practice.
“It has been recognised for
many years that existing uni-
versity courses in Veterinary
Science and Agriculture did not
adequately cover all these topics.
This recognition has led to the
advocacy of policies ranging
from piecemeal attempts to
strengthen existing courses in
Agriculture or Veterinary Science
to the establishment of com-
pletely new faculties or univer-
sities, largely divorced from the
traditions of the old schools.
“The University of Sydney has
adopted a different approach. It
has well-established Schools of
Agriculture and Veterinary
Science, both of the highest
standing, as are the departments
of pure and applied sciences by
which they are backed. The
university, therefore, has adopted
the policy of establishing a new
Department of Animal Hus-
bandry, whose purpose it is to
bridge the gap which previously
existed between these two
branches of rural science.
“It is therefore possible for
students to receive training in
Animal Husbandry by taking
Any knife wound is
dangerous for no
matter what precau-
tions are taken it
could provide an entry
into the blood stream
of deadly disease
germs. How much
safer it is, therefore,
to use the modern
Elastrator Rubber
Rings . for marking
and tailing lambs and
thereby avoid causing
open wounds. Graziers
who have switched to
Elastrator Rubber
Rings report a remark-
able reduction in lamb
losses compared with
their experience when
using a knife.
either of two degree-courses. On
the one hand they can take the
five-year course in Veterinary
Science, which has been modi-
fied so that the time spent on
Animal Husbandry and related
subjects, if summated over the
five-year course, amounts to the
equivalent of almost three years
university training in Animal
Husbandry. On the other hand
“She Was a good mother before she started drinking .”
they can take the four-year
course in Agricultural Science,
specialising in Animal Hus-
bandry. This is a course designed
to give a balanced training in
all aspects of the economical
management of farm livestock.
“Students of both Faculties
will be taught material of
common interest, some of it in
common courses. They will be
governed by the general regula-
tions of their respective Faculties,
within which they will graduate.”
The new department has a
strong team on the teaching and
research staff, headed by Pro-
fessor Terence James Robinson,
a comparatively young man
(he’s 37) whom this writer met
last year, on a Merino-stud
property in the western Riverina,
watching the shearing. Nowa-
days, when most university
teachers look and dress like
successful businessmen, one is
more surprised than otherwise
when one betrays his trade by
speech or manner. But Pro-
fessor Robinson was more diffi-
cult than the average run of
professors to label: he might
have been a woolbuyer, a grazier,
or a barrister or doctor with
country interests; a stock-
inspector or a sheep-classer.
After graduating in Agricul-
ture at the University of Western
Australia, Professor Robinson
had a wide experience of Animal
Husbandry teaching and
research in Australia, U.K. and
America. At Cambridge he took
his Ph.D. under Dr. John
Hammond. His particular
research interests have been in
beef-cattle and reproduction in
sheep.
Hector J. Geddes, M.Agr.Sc.,
who is director of the university’s
animal-husbandry farms and
Garland senior lecturer in
Animal Husbandry, through his
water-harvesting work at Bad-
gery Creek, has become almost
a popular figure. He is an
unusual combination of scientist
and journalist, and frankly
admits that his newspaper train-
ing has helped to publicise his
work; and this bright beam of
publicity which has been focused
on Badgery Creek must have
helped Sydney University
enormously. And as a colleague
put it, his flair for “presenta-
tion” makes him one of the most
interesting lecturers ever heard
at the university. He is a New
Zealander, a graduate of Lincoln
College, and is a most impressive
personality.
Dr. H. G. Belschner, senior
lecturer in Animal Management,
is a world authority in his field,
and is author of the standard
textbook Sheep Management
and Diseases. He graduated in
Veterinary Science in 1921, went
into the Division of Animal
Industry of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and retired
last year, when he was chief of
the division.
R. K. Ryan, a recent Honors
graduate of the Sydney Faculty
of Veterinary Science (Honors
in Vet. Science are rare; the
Faculty always has more
students, including those from
other States and New Zealand,
than room) won the Baker and
Ridley Memorial Prize in Animal
Husbandry. The other member
of the permanent staff, J. S. F.
Barker, is a First-class Honors
graduate of the Queensland
Faculty of Agricultural Science.
After two years post-graduate
training in genetics at Sydney
University with Dr. J. M. Rendel,
he was with the Queensland
Department of Agriculture,
before taking up his present
appointment as Lecturer in
Animal Genetics.
Part-time lecturers are Dr.
M. C. Franklin, famous for his
C.5.1.R.0. research on animal
nutrition, and Dr. R. L. Reid,
also of C.5.1.R.0. and a Cam-
bridge Ph.D., who is principal
Research Officer at the Sheep
Biology Laboratory, Prospect
(N.S.W.).
Thyroxine
“Emptor”: “L.R.E.” (B.
3/10/’56) gives only part of the
story on the hormonal stimula-
tion of fleece. Some experi-
mental work had been done in
Australia by C.5.1.R.0., who
gave the subject very brief
mention in the Seventh Annual
Report.
It is true that the weight of
fleece can be increased, but only
at the expense of the carcass
and life-span of the animal.
Thyroxine stimulates the
sheep’s appetite and the animal
will eat 25 per cent, more food.
The fleece-yield will increase by
15 per cent, to 25 per cent, and
the animal dies about 25 per
cent, sooner.
Thus, disregarding other
factors, the sheep is like a
machine ; the energy input and
output follow a predictable
curve. But other factors are too
important to omit. For instance,
in sparse country the animal
could not range far enough to
get the necessary 25 per cent,
extra food, and on runs almost
stocked to limit the immediate
result would be a 25 per cent,
decrease of the number of
animals accommodated, with
approximately the same output
of wool as before, and a greater
mortality-rate.
Hyperthyroidic symptoms
include lowered heat-resistance,
possibly not important in parts
of New Zealand, but fatal in
most of inland Australia.
Soursob Danger
“Dumosa”: Soursob - weed,
which is invading parts of
Victoria’s Wimmera as well as
South Australia’s wheatlands, is
a potential danger to sheep.
Affected animals become nervous
and collapse suddenly before
dying within 48 hours. The
head usually rests on the lower-
jaw with the hind-legs stretched
out behind the sheep.
Freshly-made calcium-boro-
gluconate injections are effective
in reviving sheep, but prolonged
grazing on soursob can cause
permanent damage to the
kidneys, with resultant loss of
efficiency of these vital organs
and eventual death. As many
sheep die of soursob-poisoning
when the weed is not apparent,
pulpy-kidney and worms often
get the blame.
Udder Culls
“Torongo”: Culling ewes
because of minor defects of the
udder can be expensive, particu-
larly if it is done at the expense
of a general scheme for improv-
ing the flock’s clip. But the
principle of culling for faulty
udders is eminently sound. Keep
an eye open for the major
defects: mastitis, blind or
abnormally large teats, and
mechanical injuries such as teats
removed by careless shearing.
In a flock at the McMaster
Field Station (N.S.W.), C.5.1.R.0.
researchers R. H. Hayman,
Helen Newton Turner and Enid
Turton found that about 6 per
cent, of the ewes had defective
udders. Lambs from these ewes
had a lower survival-rate than
those from ewes with normal
udders.
Survivors didn’t gain weight as
well, and didn’t weigh as much
at weaning, as lambs from sound
ewes.
Culling, of course, is always
a balancing of alternatives —
which makes the frequent advice
“cull severely” rather pointless
without some context of methods
and aims. But, granted there


Best
Mineral
Supplement
:
V
for all stock foods, Tri*Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with saltj, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
.fcM-
sts*«-' sto
eot**
M. 7. «**'♦“
*DhL-'6a£6L
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular* gladly npplltd—
Writ, to OAVIS GELATINE: 6M. lea 3SBJ,
SYDNEY • GAO. 80. 4058. MaBOURNE • GAO.
Boi 712 F, ADELAIDE • GAO. Bor 758 K. BRISBANE
* GAO Box 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
A Modern Self-contained Sanitary
System for All Unsewered Areas
::
m
m
I
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatically to
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAU IT! The simple instruction card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-80 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
•DISTRIBUTORS ;■
N.S.W.: Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty. Ltd., 26 Bridge St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William St., Adelaide.
W.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (W.A.), 349 William St,, Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Mel-
bourne ; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also
Launceston, Tasmania.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., N.Z.
N. Guinea : Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
UtOVt'HEt
savb
acts
' * •>*'<?'''«?*«, g V'Ss v ~
1
HARDIES
‘FIBROLITE’
(reco. trade mark)
ASBESTOS-CEMENT
Mm
txm
BFDRM.I
BEDRM
o
living i m
TERRJf
If Jbn p
I
•: : .T~T?T'.v.{j "5* **l »“'■ “
'"|wKljtt|«TßY4
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Cnr. York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King
Street
Just think of it! You can build your colourful,
contemporary home, be living in it weeks earlier
... if you build with Hardie’s “Fibrolite”.
You’ll save money, too! “Fibrolite” speeds
construction, cuts building costs. And, of
course, Hardie’s “Fibrolite” is the ideal material
for Australian homes for exterior and
interior walls as well as ceilings. It is cooler in
summer, white-ant and borer proof, weather-
proof— and fire-retardant too! Moreover,
Hardie’s “Fibrolite” minimises maintenance
costs; it actually improves with age.
To: JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.,
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me, FREE and POST FREE, your Illustrated
Booklet with full information and designs of modern
"Fibrollte” Homes.
NAME O
ADDRESS .
_ FH24/B
Please cross square If you would like our Representative
to call and advise you on your home building problems.
STOCKED
BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS,
may be good reason for retaining
some ewes with minor defects,
there can be little justification
for keeping in the flock ewes
with udders which are injured or
diseased on both sides. Such
ewes have a very poor record of
lamb-rearing, and are hardly
worth mating.
Peach Size
“Tambo”: Like all growing
things, including animals,
peaches don’t develop as quickly
or as well after a check due to
not enough water. Soil-moisture
for peaches is a touchy subject
this year, after hundreds of acres
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/11/’56)
General rains should be received in most of Queens-
land during December, with heavy falls occurring on portion
of the North Coast and Peninsula and part of the South
Coftsti t | ( | | •
In N.S.W. fairly heavy general rams are likely m
December, although only moderate on the s.-w. slopes and
portion of the Riverina. Heaviest falls are. indicated on the
Central and South Coasts and tablelands, with the likelihood
of renewed flooding. .
Rainfall should be patchy in Victoria during December
and varying from light to moderate with no excessive falls.
General rains above average are likely in most of
S.A. during December, with heavy falls in the interior
and Central Australia.
Good falls may occur in the Kimberleys, Fortescue and
De Grey of W.A. during December; poor in the remainder
of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.
ONE OF SEVEN IN TEN
“Finished with the Bully yet,
Fred?”
He hadn’t, but he passed it on
as usual. After all, he couldn’t
disappoint his neighbor, with
whom he had been exchanging
reading-matter for years.
Was a time —when labor was
not so short —when he had
finished most of the Bully by
the time this neighbor passed
through his property each week.
But times had changed.
.He had wanted particularly to
read that article on the Ruined
City of the N.T. (but time had
beaten him) and to keep for
reference that “Land” article on
fly-strike.
Fred’s problem is a common
one among Bulletin readers,
seven out of ten of whom pass
on their Bulletin each week to
friends. There is a solution —
possible at this time of the year
only. Many accepted our advice
last year and gave Christmas gift-
subscriptions. Easy to explain
to the recipient that you want
to keep your Bully but still
want to be in a position to accept
with a clear conscience those
other magazines from him.
You’ll find a gift-subscription
coupon in this issue. We will
send your friend or relative a
Christmas-card, if you wish it,
announcing your gift and signed
with your name.
of trees have been wiped-out
because of too much water, but
from now on any scarcity of
water is going to cause a setback
which cannot be made up—
however good the conditions may
be from the end of the period
of dryness until time of picking.
As the growth of developing
fruit stops before the tree shows
any outward signs of water-
shortage such as wilting, experts
at the Tatura Horticultural
Research Station advise regular
measurements of fruit, so that
the need for irrigating can be
determined to the day.
Although somewhat tedious,
the method is very profitable.
Research-workers are now
trying to find an equally accurate,
but easier, way of forecasting
the need for irrigating peaches.
Lupin-rape Mixture
“S.”: The New Zealand
Division of Scientific and
Industrial Research has found
that a rape-borre-lupin mixture
fattens lambs better than rape
alone.
Borre is a new sweet blue-
lupin variety evolved by the
division.
A. F. Greenall, research-
officer, notes the advantages of
the mixture over rape alone as
follows: more certain establish-
ment of crop; better weed-sup-
pression ; effect of insect-attack
less pronounced; higher yields,
even in a dry season; faster
weight-increase of more lambs
per acre; less annual variability
in time from sowing .to maturity ;
greater palatability than rape.
Only disadvantages were a
slightly greater cost of seed, and
a small amount of extra time
and work involved in sowing.
Greenall makes the following
recommendations: the mixture is
one that does well on all but the
heaviest and the lightest lands;
yield advantages may not be so
great where farming practices or
rotations have built a high soil-
nitrogen level; cultivate as for
rape, to obtain a fine, firm seed-
bed ; use a 2:1 mixture of
superphosphate, ground - lime-
stone, at about 2cwt. per acre ;
use one bushel of borre-lupin
and lilb. rape per acre ; in cooler
districts, sow from October to
December; sow the rape mixed
with the fertiliser and the lupin
from the grain-box in 7in. drills,
with drilling depth fin. to liin.,
the greater depth in dry seasons
or soils; to obtain the greatest
carrying-capacity and fattening-
rate, the mixture should be fed-
off as soon as either the rape or
lupin has reached maturity. (In
a dry season this will probably
be the rape, and, in the wet
season, the lupin.)
Greenall warns that, as the
correct stage of maturity for
lupin is the early green-pod stage,
before the main stem becomes
too woody, there is likely to be
an increase in stubble-wastage,
or a. decrease in digestibility, if
feeding-off is delayed too long
after this stage. With a succes-
sion of sowings, feeding-off may
begin at this stage, but where
only one sowing has been made
feeding should begin earlier.
Pumpkins for Drift
“Minapre”: Pumpkins—a new
idea for controlling wind-erosion
—were sown this year on 20 acres
of light soil by W. J. Mclnerney
of Sea Lake (Vic.), winner of the
1956 Hanslow Cup for soil-
conservation in the Mallee.
The pumpkins covered the
ground well but did not fruit as
well as expected perhaps
because of poor pollination.
Other outstanding features of
Bill Mclnemey’s management
include two or three years of
pasture between wheat-crops;
slower tractor-speeds to ridge the
soil well; 1600 acres of barrel-
clover-Wimmera-rye on the 2770-
acre property; and 150 acres
of lucerne on very sandy soil.
Pasture-species also include
snail-clover, evening-primrose,
perennial veldt-grass, West Aust.
blue-lupins, field-peas, buffel-
grass, Rhodes-grass and Mitchell-
grass.
Eleven dams hold 26,000 cu-
. of water between them, and
well-placed shelter-belts of
introduced and local trees
protect the buildings and soil.
Even so, part of the fencing can
be pulled down and replaced
easily to clear the line of sand
if necessary.


Research in Industry
c/ 5<
i
'Pressure
Product
No. 6 of a Series .
In 1939, 1.C.1. started
producing a new plastic
polythene one which
was to play a major role
in defeating Hitler’s air
armada. Without polythene,
the Allied land and sea
radar systems could not
have developed as they did
and no other material
was both tough enough
and a sufficiently good
high-frequency insulator to satisfy the exacting needs of airborne
radar.
Making polythene in large quantities was a difficult task. Research
work which was carried out for some years before the war showed
that ethylene gas had to be heated at pressures far greater than had
ever been used in chemical plant before, and the first experimental
safety-valve blew the skylights out of the laboratory. Today, this
unusual plastic manufactured on a large scale at very high
pressures is doing its unique job as a high-frequency insulator
in radio and television, in radar and electronic control equipment,
and in undersea cables. Polythene also has been found ideal for
many other uses from flexible pipes for plumbing to packaging
film, and in Australia ICIANZ is now making large quantities of
“Visqueen,” a polythene transparent material which is widely used
throughout this country for food packaging, building and a variety
of other uses.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Cl
•1332. L 928. 4633
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES ALFRED THOMAS WOOD of
Bendemeer in the Statae of New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that DULCIE
MAY WOOD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3737 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 15th January 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MOLLOY & SCHRADER,
Solicitors, H 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Phone: BWIOII, BWIOI2, 8W4991
FIRE ACCIDENT* MARINE
Alt types of General Insurance
Directors:
SIR VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE.
A. C. MAITLAND, N. E. MANION,
Managing Director. Manager.
Branches and Agencies In all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
fully-equipped Russian divisions
occupied the country, remained
an impossibility.
As the living-standards became
intolerable, the peoples’ deter-
mination to bring about a
change, no matter how great the
sacrifice, increased. It was not a
question of changing the mood
of a peaceful or subdued popu-
lation ; Hungarians, since their
country became a battlefield
between the Russians and Ger-
mans during the closing stages
of the last world war, lived
under continuous tension ; every
treason-trial and arrest was con-
sidered a small battle against
the enemy.
It would take generations
before an alien-fostered Com-
munism could take a real hold
on people so intensely patriotic
and individualistic as the
Hungarians are. The Moscow-
ruled Red regime had just nine
years’ chance.
+ +
With the Magyars freedom is
more than a tradition —an
instinct bred into them. Three
centuries of Turkish occupation
followed by Austrian rule could
not change them. They remained
what they were ; Hungarians. In
their long struggle to attain
freedom the 1848 uprising is
typical.
This was the year when people
rose against their tyrants in half
of Europe’s capitals and auto-
cratic kings toppled from their
thrones.
In Budapest a group of
students, led by the poet Petofi,
demonstrated against the Haps-
burgs, demanding freedom and
equality in a 12-point manifesto.
The people quickly rallied behind
them, and, in a bloodless revolu-
tion, the Magyars declared them-
selves a free nation.
The Hungarian Army quickly
rallied behind the revolu-
tionaries. An independent,
responsible Hungarian Govern-
ment was formed. A two-years
war followed between the Haps-
burgs and Hungary. The
50,000-strong Hungarian Army
scored one victory after another
against the Austrians ; but then,
with the help of a Russian army,
the freedom-fighters were sub-
dued and a rule of terror was
unleashed. The leaders, amongst
them 13 generals, were executed,
\
but Lajos Kossuth, the soul of
the freedom-fight, managed to
escape. He went to England and
then to America pleading help
for his downtrodden country
from the freedom-loving people
of the West ...
Substitute Communists for the
Austrians and you’ll have an
ominous parallel between past
and present.
But historical coincidences
don’t stop there. Amongst the
many monuments honoring the
heroes of the 1848 freedom-fight,
spared by the last war and th'e
Communists, is the one of
Joseph Bern, a Polish general.
Bern fought the Russians both
in the Polish and Hungarian
armies. He was wounded and
escaped to Turkey after the
cause was lost. Now the students
in Budapest, who started the
present revolution, called their
first open meeting under the
statue of their Polish hero.
This was, actually, the action-
point of the astounding events
that followed. The spot was
chosen because of the brotherly
love Hungarians always had
towards the Poles, and served
as a symbolic indication that
the flame of freedom that
flickered recently in Warsaw
and Poznan still burnt in
Hungarian hearts.
These students, who threw an
open challenge to the Com-
munists, didn’t belong to, or
have anything in common with,
the former “privileged classes”
in Hungary. They were the off-
spring of Hungarian workers
and peasants —very few youths
with a “bourgeoisie” back-
ground were permitted to enter
fields of higher education. In
fact these young men and
women were the Communists’
shining hopes for the Bolshe-
visation of Hungary.
Before the students of three
universities marched they pre-
sented a 15-point ultimatum to
the Government, demanding
free press, abolition of death-
penalty, free travel to Western
countries, liberal import of Wes-
tern literature and readmission
of non-Communist deputies to
the Red-controlled Fatherland
Front.
The Communist Government
gave evasive replies. The
students marched. Workers,
soldiers and generally everybody
joined the demonstrators. Imre
Nagy, a Moscow-trained Titoist,
was called in to save the situa-
tion.
Nagy represented the
moderate, get - rid -of - Moscow
element in the party, and fought
many bitter battles with Rakosi.
After Stalin’s death he became
Premier, but Rakosi remained
head of the party. Between
1953-55 open warfare existed
between the Nagy and Rakosi
factions. In April, 1955, Rakosi
seemed to triumph ; Nagy was
discredited and expelled from
thfe party. He managed, how-
ever, to retain his freedom.
After a few weeks of seclusion
he was seen again, walking the
streets of Budapest, gay, self-
assured and well dressed.
Rakosi’s triumph was short-
lived. The imprisoned, then
released, Titoists forced him to
resign and “confess his guilt,”
including the wrongful execu-
tion of Laszlo Rajk, whose body
was reburied with “full honors.”
His successor, Erno Gero, how-
ever, was another diehard
Stalinist. Nagy, restored to the
party’s bosom, continued to
ask for a more liberal and
national Communist Govern-
ment.
As the people’s strength aind
fury increased Gero and the
other diehards were discarded
by the party. Nagy and his
following took over.
But by now the demonstration
grew into an open revolution.
Hungarian Army units, intended
to disperse the rebels, joined
with them. The arsenals were
opened and the people got hold
of weapons. The freedom move-
ment spread like wildfire to all
parts of the country.
As the pressure increased Gero
called for Russian help. The
wholesale massacre of defence-
less people started. The last
shreds of fear, respect for one’s
own life, were discarded. There
was no question of compromise
any longer—freedom or death
the only choice. In a single week
more than 12,000 Hungarians
paid with their lives for this
kind of attitude, but they took
3000 Russians and their local
hirelings with them.
Soon the Hungarian Army
and Air Force sided with the
rebels. While all these events
took place Nagy then demanded
the withdrawal of Russian troops
from Hungary, promised free
elections, denounced the War-
saw Pact, declared neutrality
and asked for Western help.
What started as a local demon-
stration developed into a full-
scale revolution. There was no
master-mind behind it, nor was
it organised. It grew by itself,
as the spontaneous and bitter
will of the people.
Today workers, peasants,
soldiers, the deposed intelli-
gentsia and disillusioned Com-
munists face together the over-
whelming threat of Russian
armed authoritarianism.
The significance of the Hun-
garian revolution goes deeper
than the attempt to get rid of
the Russians and Communism.
It was a decisive move to join
the Western democracies.
Hungarians, in two World
Wars, against their better judg-
ment and will, were forced to
fight the Allies.
In 1914 Hungarian Prime
Minister Istvan Tisza’s voice
was, the only one raised in the
crown councils of the Austro-
Hungarian Monarchy against
war. In 1941 Prime Minister
Count Teleki committed suicide
to. protest against German
demands to use Hungarian terri-
tory against Yugoslavia and so
destroy the last vestiges of his
country’s independence, which
again meant involving the
Magyars in a war against the
West.
fn the Middle Ages Hungary
was considered as a bastion of
the West against the marauding
Tartars, Mongols and Turks.
Many times an Eastern alliance
was offered, and when the Hun-
garians rejected it their country
was laid-waste.
Laid-waste Hungary will be
again unless the United Nations,
supported by the democracies,
is able to stop the Russians from
devastating Hungary and trans-
forming it into a gigantic
concentration-camp.
Anti-Communist demonstra-
tions in Rumania and restless-
ness in East Germany show that
the present Hungarian example
has inspired people in the subject
countries. That is what Russia
is afraid of.
PLIGHT OF SWEAT-SHIRT ROSS
By R. H. CONQUEST
WHEN I was a young
fellow durin’ the gold-
rush days Big River
was a fair lurpp of a
town. It was a 40-pub town,
with sly-grog joints thrown in
for good measure.
There were Chow laundries
by the dozen, and other places
not quite so respectable, where
the shielas dug the gold out of
the men.
There was also a big grave-
yard, which never lacked
customers, ’cos in the old Aussie
gold-rush days many men—
specially the jokers from foreign
parts—were gun-, knife- and
bottle-happy, and many a gentle-
man went under the sod when
he least expected to.
One of the gents was Sweat-
Shirt Ross, who got conked with
a bottle in a pub. A blonde
female was to blame. She
reckoned a fellow by the name
of Swede Jorgensen had made
an insinuating remark, and
poor old Sweat-Shirt, bein’ a
gallant Irishman, hopped in to
do battle for the lady’s honor.
The fact that he was battling
for something that had been
lost on the goldfields when he
was still a boy didn’t enter his
nut, but a big piece of glass did,
and Sweat-Shirt Ross went
under the sod.
A FEW months later I was
walking through the grave-
yard, and I was astonished to
see a skeleton walking towards
me. It spoke to me by name,
and it was the voice of Sweat-
Shirt Ross.
“Don’t panic, young fellow,”
he says to me. “It’s me —Sweat-
Shirt Ross, the brave man who
got conked with a bottle.”
“You’re earthbound?” I says.
“It’s a fact that I am, young
fellow.”
“Ah,” I says. “For the sms
you committed while on earth
with us? For your boozing,
fighting and wenching, eh?”
“Oh, no, young fellow!” he
says quickly. “My sins were
forgiven me when I died so
bravely in the pub beside Hi-
Loo’s laundry.”
“In that case, then,” I says,
“why are you earthbound? Why
aren’t you up among the good
people?”
Sweat-Shirt Ross rattled his
bones, and it was a mournful
rattle.
“ ’Cos they went and lost me
papers, young fellow. They
weren’t expecting me after the
life I’d led on earth, so they
didn’t bother to file me papers.
Then, after me brave deed, they
couldn’t find ’em.”
“Keep hoping,” I says sympa-
thetically. “They’ll find ’em in
time.”
It was six months at least
before I again walked through
the graveyard. Again I met the
skeleton of Sweat-Shirt Ross,
this time staggering along under
the weight of a tombstone.
“Is this some sort of punish-
ment?” I says.
He rattled his bones, a bit
more cheerfully this time.
“Looks as if things are gonna
be 0.K., young fellow. They’ve
given up trying to find me
papers, but I’ve got to take
something along which will
identify me. I guess me tomb-
stone’ll do.”
He staggered out of my sight,
burdened down by the weight of
the tombstone, and that was the
last I ever saw of Sweat-Shirt
Ross, the gallant Irishman.
So he must have made it after
all.


STARLAND OF THE SOUTH
By IV. A. McNAIR
Learn to recognise the bright stars of the southern skies. Cross, Argo, the
Centaur, Orion, the Bull, Pegasus, etc., are all now plainly visible. Watching tne
stars in their courses” is a pastime which has fascinated mankind tor thousands
of years. This book, “Highly Commended” in The Children s Book of the ieai
Competition, tells the stories of all the great constellations and explains where to
find them. An ideal gift book for any intelligent boy or girl, and one which will give
enjoyment to young and old on every starry evening. l rice 15/- (postage Ja.)
WHITCOMBE & TOMBS LTD.,
Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUSTRALIAN SIGNPOST: An
Anthology.
Edited by T. A. G. Hungerford.
Brilliant popular authors and outstanding new
writers show what a fascinating country Aus-
tralia is in this anthology of short stories,
critical and historical essays, poetry and general
articles. Contributed by 52 writers living in
all parts of the Commonwealth, they graphically
depict the humour and toughness of the Aus-
tralian people.
18/6 (post 9d.)
THE AUSTRALIAN COMMON-
WEALTH: A picture of the Com-
munity 1901-1955.
By Brian Fitzpatrick.
Vigorously written, entertaining and scholarly,
this book is a description and interpretation of
community life in the Australian Commonwealth.
It deals with politics and government, and many
other aspects of Australian life. The book con-
cludes with an interesting Sources, Notes and
Topics section,
30/- (post 9d.)
ANGUS &
-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY
66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l
BLACK COCKATOOS MEAN SNOW
by ELYNE MITCHELL
This pastoral novel, set in an Australian sheep-farming valley, surrounded
by wild mountains among whose high solitudes men may find wisdom and
peace, unfolds the lives of highly individual people who have become part
of the land they love. It traces the heartbreak of an impossible marriage,
the doubts of a reluctant bachelor, and conveys the satisfaction and genuine
romance of family life.
Retail Price in Australia, 15/6 (postage extra)
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
HODDER & STOUGHTON LIMITED
THE BIGGEST AND BEST NOVEL BY MASTER STORYTELLER
Thomas B. Costain
(Author of “The Silver Chalice”)
THE TONTINE
NEARLY 1000 pages of SHEER READING EXCITEMENT, SUSPENSE
AND ROMANCE—A MAJOR FEAT OF STORYTELLING
COLLINS
run-down by passing steamers, lost in
fogs and, above all, half-frozen: —
The coldness of the water, particu-
larly where it is deep and turbulent,
chills the dream and petrifies the
ambition. It is said that lanolin
counteracts cold to some extent,
although I must admit that physiolo-
gists who have been making tests
for years on my Channel swimmers
[Mr. Rockett trains them at the
Folkestone baths] are now very
doubtful of its value. Even those
looking on from the boats cannot
appreciate how cold it really is until
the victim is hauled out of the water.
He is at once wrapped in thick rolls
of cottonwool and placed under
numerous blankets, but his persistent
and violent shivering resembles that
of a sufferer from St. Vitus’s dance.
On my own Channel swim I found
the temperature of the water nothing
short of purgatory. How I longed
for the night to pass and for the
morning sun!
“Purgatory” doesn’t seem quite the
word Mr. Rockett wanted; but it all
makes a most interesting book.
A Shaw Neitson Item
Dear Red Page—l am sending you
the enclosed humorous verse by my
late brother Shaw Neilson.
I would explain that in a recent
“Southerly” mention was made in one
of the articles of the humorous verse
of Shaw Neilson. A. G. Stephens
printed a number of my late brother’s
light verses. He seemed to have a
distinct liking for it.
“The Bulletin,” too, printed quite a
number of the light verses by him. If
the tenor of “The Bulletin” has not
changed since then perhaps the enclosed
verse might suit. It was never printed,
but I kept the old MSS.
Incidentally, the late Victor Kennedy
and John were great friends. John
sent him a copy of the verses. Victor
was a keen journalist and good critic.
He regarded it as an outstanding
example of humorous verse.
Frank Neilson.
The Scorpion
By John Shaw Neilaon
(Written in 1938)
[News item in “The Scientific American” —
Recent research on organic phenomena by
biologists and naturalists has disclosed the in -
formation .that in the scheme of evolution man’s
earliest and first progenitors waif a set of sea-
scorpions which were the first living things to
desert the sea and come out and survive upon
the land.]
[Dedicated to Mr. Wiiliam Graham]
Once, though in torrid zone or Arctic spow
No living thing had dared to seek the land,
A dead calm day aeons of time ago
A scorpion crept out upon the Sand.
There were no places then such as Lake
Mundi;
No-one to dance a jig or chant a psalm:
Even Geelong upon a tame, wet Sunday
Could not compete with all that awful
calm.
Had this exploring insect been dejected
Or for a minute let his courage fade;
Had his slim legs the rough sheer rocks
rejected
Great Evolution’s scheme had been
delayed.
Delayed perhaps full fifty thousand years
Altering the whole scheme of Mankind:
The merriment, the joy, the blood, the
Making all this a million moons behind.
No-one was there with Mayor’s civic
dinner,
No-one to clap him with three hearty
cheers;
No-one remarked he looked' a little thinner
Or count him “Daddy of all pioneers.
Had 'our progenitor fallen back disgusted,
Lacking the patience of a sprinting snail;
Had his small feelers the slimy slope dis-
trusted:
Would there have been a Monday Morn-
ing Sale?
Would there have been such men like
Edward Carson? .
Or famed Dominion over palm and pine /
Would there have been a Pope or knight
or parson? _
Or Henry Ford 1 with his assembly-lme l
Would there have been the German genius
Vogna?
Or grand soprano climbing past top C?
Would have been tested Main Harmonic
Dogma
With double-forte Band in Major Key?
No welcome for the Guest which left the
ocean; .
No-one to say ’twas hard to fill his place;
No Shire Councillor seconded the motion
Proud of ancestors of their Guest to trace.
There were no crooners, no soap-plays or
mobsters,
These modern curses causing a bored
alarm ... ,
Could he have known this, would he have
left the lobsters
To start upon his own a scorpion farm.
He had no stimulants his nerves to steady,
Strange that his valiant courage did not
Ah! it was well for us that he had ready
All that important Poison in his tail!
Let us recount vast cities by the dozen ,
Scraping the sky with towers by men s
hands:
All this began at first by our keen cousin,
Intrepid fighter marching on the sands.
Reviewed Briefly
Framed for Hanging: Guy Culhng-
ford (Hammond). A modem mystery
set in an Edwardian provincial town;
the well-to-do amateur explorer comes
back from exploring to find that the
girl who turned him down for a middle-
aged doctor is afraid of being poisoned.
But it is the doctor who is poisoned,
in circumstances which point to the
young explorer’s guilt. The mystery
draws in the explorer’s three amusing
old maiden-aunts, his two bumbling
fellow-explorers and the doctor’s wife’s
maid —a charming period-piece and a
well-developed, if not exciting, mystery.
* * * *
Enchanting Bellamy: Cyril Hughes
Hartmann (Heinemann). The life,
times and good-times of Georgiane
Bellamy: whose friends included Lord
Holland; whose lovers included Sir
George Metham, who carried her off
in her stage-costume from the midst of
a performance; and whose greatest
triumph was, perhaps, when Dr. John-
son shouted at the end of a perform-
ance, “I will write a copy of verses
upon her myself!” A rich, amusing and
moving biography of the London stage
in the 18th century, excellently written.
* * * *
Till We Have Faces: C. S. Lewis
(Bles). Mr. Lewis’s problem has
always been how to use his impressive
qualities of thought, style and imagina-
tion in such a way that his novels will
be distinguishable from, alas, ordinary
spaceman comics; and in this recon-
struction of the myth of Psyche and
Cupid, set in the land of Glome, which
is ruled by a king named Trom and a
divinity named Ungit, he hardly
succeeds—he lacks the ironic humor
which would make it, if not credible,
acceptable as fantasy. Still, the under-
lying thought is there and the weirdest
things keep happening.
* * * *
Better English in Banking: Beryl
Dulhunty (Angus and Robertson). Do
you say “I envisage being able to repay
the loan within three months” instead
of “I expect to”? “The limit on the
above-named account” instead of “Mr.
Smith’s account”? “Enclose here-
with” when you need only “enclose”?
“As per your report” instead of “as
stated”? “Re” for “about”? “I
received the pamphlets from America
and have read same with interest”
instead of “read them”? “Relatively
few” when you mean “few”? Of course
all bankers, or relatively all, commit
all, or relatively all, these errors; but
after they have read Miss Dulhunty’s
invaluable little above-named book,
which is recommended by H. D. T.
Williamson, president of the Bankers’
Institute of Australasia, it is envisaged
that they will cease forthwith. Pro-
vided they peruse same with the atten-
tion it merits —i.e., read it.
* * * *
Escape from the Bloodied Sun:
Captain Freddie Guest (Jarrolds).
Captain Guest and the one-legged
Chinese admiral Sir Andrew Chan
Chak escaped from Hong Kong in
World War II and set out to tramp
1200 miles to Chungking. A plain,
t?lunt story of their adventures, giving
a most vivid impression of the silent,
tireless, undisciplined hordes of China
on the march, “just a mass of humanity
going the same way as best they can,”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 408
Across
I—Next Monday, Graeme (a
cricketer) is seen in the club-
house. (10, 4)
6—French-fried potatoes and their
desirable temperature as a
conversation topic in 1-across?
(8)
B—lrritate with study when rising to
a round shape on the outside. (6)
11—Its summer is renowned. (11, 4)
13— One result of burning a university
faculty which is far from proud.
(7)
14— Fruit-slogan of T.A.A.? (6)
18 — Entangle she-men who are
already in a tangle. (6)
19— We like electric light’s west sup-
porters of many a painter’s art
fauna. (7)
22 Managing a class affirmative or
keen to be His Worship. (7, 3,5)
24 Don’t say no as despatched. (6)
25 Organ-tag hidden in Chekhov’s
birthplace. (8)
27 —Studies on sunburn can work for
a composer with the French city
in Europe. (14)
Down
1— Pleasantest street of a Mediter-
ranean resort. (6)
2 Taint negatived—so sit up. (3)
3 Somebody like Arthur Morris
who makes an incision in the
Roman 10. (2-6)
4 Booze hitch has a couple of
ducks for it. (5)
5 One to kiss the crook like arm-
pits. (7)
7 —Brokers may handle such sieges.
(11)
9—Musician who makes six love
one circuit of the course producer
of an egg. (5-6)
10 —You’re looking right at it. (3)
12 —Approaches. (5)
15 — Burro is part of the East. (5)
16— Go back about a party. (7)
17 — Vibrant about an offspring insect.
(8)
20 — What an urger may do for a
popular breakfast. (3)
21 — Pat may talk with this shoe. (6)
23 —Tavern is a Gaelic island. (5)
26 —Beard of the corn. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 407


SEE HOW THE
INCOME m REBATE
OF 2'~ IN THE £ GIVES
(MUmiHIMMSm
A
off
There is only one true standard by which
one type of investment should be com-
pared with another in point of earnings
on capital—the net income left for the
investor’s use after payment of taxation.
A glance at the simple graph above
clearly shows the advantage enjoyed by
investors in Commonwealth Loan securi-
ties because of the Income Tax Rebate
of 2/- in the £1 which applies to Com-
monwealth Loan interest included in
taxable income.
Notice that an investor with a taxable
income of £l,OOO receives a net return from the 5%
Commonwealth Securities equal to the net yield on a
fully taxable investment earning 5.6%. The net return
from 4% short-term Commonwealth Securities is also
substantially improved through operation of the special
tax rebate.
This rebate of £1 in each £lO of Commonwealth Loan
HOW THE SPECIAL INCOME TAX REBATE OPERATES
TO INCREASE YOUR NET INCOME FROM
COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES
Columns below show interest
required on fully taxable securities
to obtain the same NET YIELD
as investors receive from BV2 and
20-YEAR Commonwealth Securi-
ties bearing interest at the nominal
rate of 5%, issued at par.
£5OO £lOOO £2,000 £3,500 £5 000 £lO 000
TAXABLE INCOME BEFORE MAKING) IN VES T MEN T ,g
Columns below show interest
required on fully taxable securities
to obtain the same NET YIELD
as investors receive from SHORT-
TERM Commonwealth Securities
bearing interest at the nominal rate
of 4%, issued at £99/10/- per
cent
interest included in your taxable income is of direct
cash value. (Of course, this rebate cannot exceed
the amount of tax otherwise payable.) In addition,
the Commonwealth guarantees that Commonwealth
Loan investors will be repaid the full face value of their
holdings on the maturity date and interest will be paid
regularly at a fixed rate. Invest in the Commonwealth
Security Loan now open.
OF ISSUF
Investors may choose Bonds or Inscribed Stock as follows:
SHORT-TERM
—
18-month securities bearing interest at 4% per annum, issued
at £99/10/- per cent., and maturing on MAY 15, 1958.
WfINNV »3d
MEDIUM-TERM
Bi-year securities bearing interest at 5% per annum, issued
at par, and maturing on APRIL 15, 1965.
5%
LONGTERM
20-year securities bearing interest at 5% per annum, issued
at par, and maturing on APRIL 15, 1976.
5%
PER ANNUM
Minimum Subscription is £lO for the Bi-year and 20-year terms and £lOO
for the 18-month securities.
Applications may be lodged with any bank, savings bank or stockbroker.
CONVERSIONS
Holders of the £40,816,000 of
3% Commonwealth Bonds
and Inscribed Stock issued in
Nov ember-December, 1955,
with November 15, 1956, as
the maturity date, are invited
to convert their securities into
bonds or inscribed stock of
the Commonwealth Loan now
open.
CASH
AND
CONVERSION /
l M
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury.
275L5.145
