

m
- *6
'i #
I
m
089
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4009
Wednesday, December 12, 1956
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
prfce v-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
WINCHESTER CATHEDRAL'S
WESTERN FRONT, A GEM OF
GOTHIC ART
WINCHESTER, besides being one of
the most ancient, is also one of the
most graceful and unspoilt of English
cities. Its long history reaches back to
the days of the Roman occupation, and
it was a capital city before London had
assumed that dignity. It was there
William the Conqueror was crowned
before the ceremony in Westminster
Abbey.
The Cathedral, for many years the
cathedral of the ancient Kingdom of
Wessex, is the longest Gothic church in
Europe, and in it may be seen superb
examples of Norman, Early English and
Perpendicular work. Among the many
alterations and additions to the Cathedral,
those carried out by the famous William
of Wykeham in the late fourteenth and
early fifteenth centuries were largely
responsible for the imposing appearance
of the building.
Many hours can be spent in the
Cathedral, absorbing its endless beauties.
The massive simplicity of the exterior, the
long vista of its remarkable nave cul-
minating in the beautiful East Window,
the magnificence of its Altar Screen with
its elaborate stone carvings and lovely
canopies-—all this, and much more
besides, combine to make a lasting
impression on the visitor.
Within the Cathedral are buried
William Rufus, son of the Conqueror,
and William of Wykeham, who in 1382
founded the adjoining Winchester
College, one of the greatest of English
public schools.
St. Swithin, the tutor of King Alfred,
is buried in the Cathedral churchyard.
His wish to be buried in the churchyard
was at first disregarded by the monks,
who buried him in a magnificent tomb
inside the churqh. Thereafter it rained
continuously for 40 days. This was taken
as a sign of the Saint’s displeasure, and
upon moving his remains outside the rain
stopped. Thus originated the popular
saying in England that if it rains on St.
Swithin’s Day (July 15) it will rain for
40 days thereafter.
A modern statue of St. Swithin
surmounts the graceful West Front of the
Cathedral, illustrated here. This part of
Winchester Cathedral was rebuilt about
1360, when the two western towers were
taken down to make way for the great
West Window.
No. 327: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


tSOOKHUNTEB, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
CHRISTMAS BOOK SELECTION
Capricornia Revisited
Enormous and legendary, like the
giant wombat the scientists call the
diprotodon, Xavier Herbert’s Capri-
comia has lain so long out of print
that one feared it had become extinct.
But it has been reprinted by Angus
and Robertson as a Christmas surprise;
and, fabulous indeed as a diprotodon,
comes shambling into view again, very
much alive.
Like the monsters that once roved
the same swamps and billabongs of
the Territory, it is really too big to
know where to go or what to do with
itself. It is magnificent; but Heaven
knows what it is all about.
It is not about Oscar Shillingsworth,
that dapper, superior and rather nasty
little civil servant up North; because
Oscar, after being interesting and
promising when he is embarrassed by
his scapegrace brother Mark, becomes
a cattle-baron for no particular reason
and, though we continue to hear of his
ups and downs, mostly downs,
practically disappears as a character.
It is not about Mark Shillingsworth,
the ne’er-do-well, who, while still a
civil servant, gets drunk and has a
child by a lubra; for Mark, interesting
and promising though he is in his
decline and fall under the awful
influence of the tropic North—the
climax comes when he murders a
Chinaman—disappears from the story
for years and years, while minor
characters take the stage and mostly
get run over by trains while drunk;
and though he does come back under
a beard and a false name in the end,
to be tried and acquitted by one of
Capricornia’s broad-minded juries, it
cannot be said that he develops very
clearly as a character. He proves, if
anything, that murder and black-velvet
can make a man of a bureaucrat;
which doesn’t seem quite what Mr.
Herbert originally set out to prove.
The novel is not, once again, the
story of Mark’s halfcaste son Norman,
the “yeller-feller,” though it comes
nearer to being about that than about
anything else: for though Norman’s
woeful childhood, neglected and
kicked about, is very well described,
though the problems of the half caste
are movingly presented, mounting into
some excellent scenes when he is
snubbed by Oscar’s daughter, he moves
as a character in a series of leaps rather
than in hny smooth and consistent
progression, a mechanism rather than
a man when he feels the call of the
wild, talks about the penalties for
murder to frighten his lubra, or
suddenly starts shouting in the court-
room. His career comes to no effective
conclusion to stamp him memorably in
the mind like Katharine Prichard’s
Coonardoo —despite the fact that there
is infinitely more convincing observa-
tion in Herbert’s realistic study than
in Katharine Prichard’s fairytale. The
last pages of the book, though Norman
is in them, belong to Tocky, his half-
caste lubra and their baby, dead in a
diy tank where they have been hiding
from the police . . . one of the scores
of moving little tragedies squandered
through the big rich book; but not,
since he doesn’t really care for Tocky,
Norman’s tragedy.
What is the book about then, since
it is not about any-of these leading
characters?
Well, it is about Ned Crater, the
Man of Fire, settling on the lonely
coast and filling it with grog, gunfire
and halfcastes. It is about the down-
fall of the Shillings worths and the
murder of the Chinaman. It is about
drunken debauches in the town Mr.
Herbert calls Zodiac. It is about
Heather Poundamore, the grazier’s
daughter, who falls in love with Mark
and, with little to prove why she should
do so, becomes a barmaid and more.
It is about little Norman’s first glimpse
of the wonderful railway-trains of
civilisation, and his days of delight with
the fat half-Japanese, half-aboriginal
Anna, who cherishes him in the
intervals of her less respectable
pursuits.
It is about the railwaymen’s party
when Mick O’Pick set fire to Joe
Ballast’s corrugated-iron palace by
heaving the kerosene-lamp at the
assembled guests. And Norman hope-
lessly moaning, day after day without
ceasing, when, by meaningless chance,
he first comes to Oscar’s cattle-station.
And the patriotism of Tim O’Cannon
on the outbreak of the Great War, when
only his love for his four quadroon
children restrains him from enlisting.
It is about Mr. Humbolt Lace, the
State Stock Expert, who, when his
wife had to go south to have a baby,
succumbs with many misgivings to the
lure of black-velvet and, when he has
the lubra pregnant, tries to marry her
off to every halfcaste in sight. And
Elbert, the half caste, knifing Jock
Driver, in a quarrel about Elbert’s
lubra, and thereby rendering himself
ineligible as a suitor for Humbolt
Lace’s victim.
It is about a half caste couple trying
to grow peanuts, but, assisted by their
black relatives, eating all the seed and
thereafter trying to live by prostitution
and gambling. It is—beyond every-
thing—about the appalling conditions
under which the aborigines live at the
Compound; or, for that matter, any-
where else.
It is about Mick O’Pick and Joe
Ballast, those drunken, rancorous old
mates, both getting run over by the
train as the climax to one of their
sprees. And the shotgun wedding Tim
O’Cannon enforced on the flash young
stockman who ran off with one of his
daughters; and the glorious wedding
that followed, nourished by 420 gallons
of beer, when everybody fought every-
body and Mrs. McLash sneered at the
newlyweds because the nuptial couch
was the same one as they had occupied
the night before, “as indeed they had
been doing since the night of their
betrothal.”
It is about Tim O’Cannon, in turn,
getting run over by the train, to the
dismay of what is left of his unfortunate
family—it is nothing to Mr. Herbert,
and nothing to the reader by this time,
for such is the nature of the book, that
rather too many people are going under
this most malevolent machine. Mr.
Herbert would run the whole popula-
tion under it if he wanted to; and, in
fact, at the 223-Mile Smash on page
30« he pretty well does. Eight men go
under it that triumphant day.
Nor is it anything to Mr. Herbert
that, when he is not pushing his people
under trains, he is having them
murdered with a prodigality that would
almost lead one to believe the
Territory exists in a constant state of
global war. If his novel is about Mark’s
murder of the Chinaman and Elbert’s
murder of Jock Driver, so also, in one
terrific outburst of greed and lust and
arcadian love and violence, all in about
40 pages, it is about Frank McLash
and the half-Chinese Ket murdering
Con the Greek; and Ket trying to
murder Norman; and Tocky, because
for once she objects to being seduced,
murdering Frank McLash . . . And if
any other murders or train-accidents,
sprees, rapes and illicit love-affairs are
omitted from this summary one
wouldn’t be surprised.
The novel is, in short, about the
Northern Territory.
That, of course, is not a theme for
a novel. It is not a theme at all: it
is a great raw slab of land and people.
A theme is the organisation of people,
in the setting of the land, into a unified
dramatic conflict. With, so it seems,
Dreiser’s great scope at the back of
his mind, but without Dreiser’s single-
ness of purpose, Xavier Herbert has,
in a sense, taken 200,000 words to say
what Conrad, in “Heart of Darkness,”
said in 30,000, what Katharine Prichard
said in about 60,000. He has packed
material that would have served for a
lifetime of writing into this one novel.
His very richness defeats him: tragedy
after tragedy, comedy after comedy,
wild spree after spree, characters teem-
ing like a shoal of fish, there is too
much to take in, there is too much for
any one episode to stand out, too much
for any one theme to be developed and
dramatised to the full. It is essentially
documentary writing, not organised and
disciplined into art.
But, then, in any given episode,
among the hundreds, the thousands of
episodes, how much artistry —in the
way of good, vigorous storytelling,
alive with humor, compassion and
indignation: saving every soul in sight,
and hitting every head —is crammed in!
And the total, if not great in the
way of Dostoevsky, making a single,
massive impact to knock the reader
out for ever, is still a most vast, a most
colorful, a most admirable mass of the
Northern Territory. It has the virtues
of its defects; and if it really should
have been cut up into a lot of nice little
wombats, it is no mean feat to have
created a diprotodon.
FROM NOW ON I CHANGE
From now on l change to another
language
which is a different landscape and a
different way of walking
like going out into the sun after a long
illness.
The images of sight are still the same :
a woman walking, a house to live in and
a house
to pass by, a horse waiting patiently for
its rider, the first light at dawn and the
last
at sundown. But the words change and
change
the whole picture.
From now on l change to another
language
which is a different sky and a different
way of breathing
like going out into the surf after inland
pools.
The images of smell are still the same :
wet leaves in the rain, the smoke of a
logfire
at night-time, the perfume of a woman
passing
in a crowd, the foreign fragrances of
warehouses
in a seaport. But the words change and
change
the atmosphere.
From now on I change to another
language
which is a different way of life and a
different conversation
like leaving the accustomed school for a
city office.
The images of sound are still the same :
wind rustling the gumleaves or high up
howling
the world into a void, the distant war
of the surf, a woman humming fragments
of a tune
like thinking happiness or peace. But the
words change
and change the lighting.
From now on 1 change to another
language
and I change like a man after walking for
days
through arid country coming to a fertile
valley
with a small stream of unthinkably clear
water
and he kneels down amidst the green and
drinks:
the images of taste are still the same
but the water is new like a new day in a
new country
full of sunshine and sky and contented as
a bright Sunday morning.
N.S.W.
KOOS SCHUUR.
PICK OF THE YEAR
A choice of Australian books
reviewed on the Red Page this
year:—
Poetry
The Miracle of Mullion Hill,
by David Campbell; Three Men
and Sydney, by Nancy Keesing;
The Two Fires, by Judith Wright.
Short-stories
The Bunyip of Barney’s Elbow,
by Brian James; At Parramatta,
by Ethel Anderson.
Novels
The Tree of Man, by Patrick
White; That Honey Flow, by
Kylie Tennant.
General
Crowded Galleries, by Dame
Mabel Brookes; Escape to
Adventure, by Noel Monkman.
Other outstanding books were;
(poetry) Song and Dance, by Ray
Mathew, The Other Meaning, by
Vivian Smith, A Vision of
Ceremony, by James McAuley;
(short-stories) Town and City, by
David Rowbotham; (novels)
Moleskin Midas, by Tom Ronan,
Brindle Royalist, by Henry G.
Lamond, Keep Him My Country,
by Elizabeth Durack, Com-
mander Brady, by J. E. Mac-
donnell, The Quiet Dust, by Helen
Heney; (general) No Moon To-
night, by D. E. Charlwood, The
Australian Bloodhorse, by
Douglas M. Barrie, The Cape
Horn Breed, by W. H. S. Jones,
The Bishop with 150 Wives, by
Mgr. Gsell, Year After Year, by
Leon Gellert, Laughter, Not for
a Cage, by Miles Franklin, The
Story of the Camera in Australia,
by Jack Cato; (anthologies) the
Oxford Book of Australian Verse,
edited by Judith Wright, Aus-
tralian Signpost, edited by
T. A. G. Hungerford, Australia
at War, edited by Norman
Bartlett, The Sonnet in Australia,
edited by Louis Lavater; (re-
prints) Coonardoo, by Katharine
Susannah Prichard, The Dread-
nought of the Darling, by C. E. W.
Bean, Bird Wonders of Australia,
by A. H. Chisholm, The Singing
Gold, by Dorothy Cottrell.
A New Pinney
The general reader who left Peter
Pinney, the overlander of understate-
ment, in Zanzibar at the end of his
last book may pick him up again in
Anywhere But Here (Angus and
Robertson) on the way to Mozambique
in company with a black hobo who is
caught naked chasing women through
the streets of Mozambique at night, so
that Mr. Pinney has to assemble
bicycles for a week to get enough money
to get his black friend out of jail.
Let it be said here that it’s a small
world. No sooner has he parted from
his black friend, and arrived in
Bulawayo in Southern Rhodesia, and
taken a job as scene-shifter with the
Covent Garden Opera laboring there
under Barbirolli, than he sees Anna in
the street, the Dutch girl he waved
away on a reliability-trial to Cairo a
year before. As she is wearing white
shorts and he is wearing a kilt, they
see immediately what a brilliant design
this will be for another travel-book,
walking across Africa to Luanda, then
round the coast to Lagos, she wearing
the pants and he wearing the skirt.
The journey across Africa is com-
paratively uneventful; they meet sur-
prising and surprised white men, they
travel by jeep, truck, canoe and foot;
and the main divertissements of their
whole trip are the border-incidents. At
the frontier-post near Cabinda, near
Boma, in Angola, they find they have
crossed the Belgian Congo without
visas either into or out of Angola; Anna
leaves the guardhouse on a pretext.
Mr. Pinney drags himself free from
the negro police, forces his way out.
and both rush, at the risk of being
shot, across the frontier to a Portuguese
house and sanctuary. At Coco Beach,
in French Equatorial Africa, the
French commandant offers them his
launch and indirectly tells them “the
way to circumvent the Spanish border
control,” saying, “A bas les pics!” or
“Down with the cops!”
The cops, however, pull them in at
(i Continued on page 50)


Buy your “Admiral” TV Set
A "TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" '
nthony Horderns’
£29 Deposit. Easy Terms.
' ''V :
t
I? /
SSSSfcsg
«K
■
■vMi
s
KSSS
1
■ &
*^>*rSmumam^
if .f j ;i ! j jf :
: v if; v
i "mii iilHii ?:;
'S«
lit
filitll 1' ■£§
v . • ••;
PlsiMiiliP^
SW-i
' ■ :■ '
I i
V'-j
IT
j-
am
#1
Iff
I Ip
?S
'«wwBoww
JP’""
KS3
iju'iiuCoaW**i'iVi'H | O‘MWt
s'- s’
> .:•:
i
m
•giWjS
mm
’
• • •
Brushware, camera
fiift suggestions
Why not 9 phone or mail your orders?
A. Vogue Toilet Set —5-piece with Powder Bowl —an
ideal gift for the Junior Miss. Priced at >£2/10/-!
B. Gent’s Travel Set by Halex of England—well-fitted
leather case and xylonite hair brush. Only £5/2/6!
C. Fifth Avenue Gent’s Set—3-piece brown and grey,
with shield. Hair Brush, Cloth, Brush and Comb in
lined box. A wonderful gift at just £3/12/- complete!
D. Charm Lady’s Hair Brush and Comb. Only 37/6!
E. Lady’s Dressing Table Set in presentation box. In
imitation enamel, 5-piece, and priced at only £9/2/6!
F. For the teenager, a Kodak Junior 1, at £7/3/4, and
a Kodak Juniot 2 priced at only £lO/5/-. Mail early!
G. “Halex” pure bristle Shaving Brush, in box, 21/-!
H. For the tinies, a Kodak 120 Brownie at £l/11/8!
I. Zipper Manicure Set—7-pce., nail clippers, £2/10/-
J. For Mother—“Halex” Combing Brush only 23/-
K. Cut glass Perfume Bottle —so feminine, only 32/6
L. We have an extensive range of Beauty Cases from
57/6 to £l3/6/6. Cherry, Beige, Red. Illus. £4/9/6
M. Ladies’ Dressing Table Sets in quality Oroton, with
Silver brushed back. 4-piece. In gift box, £2l/12/6.
Also in Black, Gold facings, priced at £23/19/6.
N. Our compacts range from 16/6 to £7/15/-. Illus.
English square design “Stratton” gilt compact, 25/6.
O. Bath Brushes, Blue, White, Pink handles. 13/11
Pharmacy Dept., Ground Floor, Pitt St.
m
m
0
%
u
ANTHONY HORDERNS’. MAIL TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE T49.P.5. 80951 FOR SERVICE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 12, 1956
Vol 77—No. 4009
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Co-llins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE BASIS OF CO-OPERATION
THE British and French are leaving Suez amid
the jeers of the Egyptians. From the beginning the
British have expressed their willingness to see the
whole dangerous situation handled by U.N., and it is
probable that if they hadn’t interfered the Israelis
would be in Cairo and Nasser still running; or he
would have been rescued by Russian volunteers
and the Kremlin flag would be flying over the
Egyptian capital.
Sir Anthony Eden sasi as far back as November
1, before British or French troops had reached
Egypt, that if, after a cease-fire, the United Nations
was willing to undertake the physical task of main-
taining peace in the Suez area “nobody would be
better pleased than we.”
In plain fact, the British and French have
imposed a truce on the area but have received the
thanks of nobody. U.N. in the beginning couldn’t
have imposed peace, especially if Syria and others
had joined in the dogfight. After six weeks’
execration of the Allies, who did act, it has
succeeded in mustering-up the nucleus of a polyglot
force which Mr. Hammarskjoeld hopes by the
middle of December to have built up to two
“combat brigades,” whatever that may mean, and
which are supposed somehow to be able to handle
the situation. This force is largely made possible
by the prompt response of a Communist country,
Yugoslavia—whose troops are already under strong
suspicion of teaching the Egyptians to use
Communist arms
With this Keystone detachment (which seems
to have no duties and no policy except to sit supine
and keep the Israelis out —if it can) in position, the
majority of the United Nations Assembly, as the
London “Times” puts it, “have let Colonel Nasser
have his way as though he were entirely an injured
innocent.” They passed resolutions, led by the
United States, on November 2 calling for a cease-
fire and urged, “upon a cease-fire, effective steps
to open the Suez Canal and restore secure freedom
of navigation.”
Since then —this is again the “Times,” which
has been considerably misrepresented in its attitude
by some of the Australian press—“the Assembly
has been pussyfooting in face of Colonel Nasser’s
declaration that he will not let the canal be opened
so long as non-Egyptian forces are on Egyptian
soil.” He still refuses to allow ships to be moved
even where the passage is clear. It has been,
indeed, a “grotesque situation”:—
The Assembly puts pressure on Britain and
France, and Colonel Nasser puts pressure on the
Assembly.
And the Assembly yields all along the line when
Nasser is firm.
When the sedate withdrawal of the British
French is complete the Middle East will become
another United Nations zone; that is, another zone
in which the United States and Russia play chess
with petty dictators as pawns and knights. The
responsibility will then be on U.N. and those who
make the moves and exert the economic and other
pressures and inducements behind the scenes.
Their task should be easier than that of Britain
and France. The U.S.A., Bolivia and Haiti haven’t
got 60,000,000 tons of shipping passing through
the canal every year, so they can view matters
which are dollar-bankruptcy—almost life and death
—to Europe with a relative detachment. It will,
however, be interesting to watch Uncle Sam
handling some of the emergencies that are likely
to arise.
It is good to notice that, as the task looms up
as part of its own responsibility, the U.S. State
Department, with the return of Mr. Dulles, is
taking a more realistic view of the situation,
shepherded by the more sober of the American
newspapers. Many of the most influential are
clear as to how untenable the self-righteous
indignation of the U.N. and U.S. over Suez is,
against the background of their supine tolerance
of the flouting of resolutions by the murderers of
Hungary.
The New York “Times” has pointed out within
the past week that “nobody can deny that there
have been errors in American policy,” despite the
tendency to lay all the blame on the British, whose
actions have divided the free world. It goes on to
say that if alliance can hope to survive between
the great Powers “each ally must be credited with
good faith”:—
Surely all the allies, including Britain, France
and the United States, were agreed that the
essential purpose must be to check further Com-
munist aggression, without precipitating an atomic
war. If differences arose about methods, the
answer clearly lay in more intensive consultation;
if, for lack of consultation, some of the allies found
it imperative to take separate action in self-
defence against intolerable provocation, they must,
in the President’s words, be accorded the “mani-
fest right to do so,” even if their judgment were
challenged.
This seems to put the position very well.
British action has been attributed in some U.S.
(and other) quarters to an imperialism of which the
United States itself has begun to smell very
strongly. And its withdrawal, certain from the
beginning so soon as U.N. was prepared to do its
duty, is being attributed to power exercised by the
U.S., the world’s great moral force which exerts
itself so firmly against friends and the weak but
allows the horrors of Hungary to take their course
without any major effort at a check—or any effort
beyond the futilities of Mr. Hammarskjoeld.
If the English-speaking peoples are to attain
once more some basis of concerted action and world
co-operation and friendship, the attitude of the U.S.
will have to change considerably. Co-operation is
imperative if the West is to survive against the
intensification of Communist pressure. The Com-
munists have worked zealously for a division
between America and the British Commonwealth
for years as the key to their plan.
With the Paris meeting of the Atlantic Council
imminent it seems that Mr. Dulles is now faced
with the need to soothe the feelings of the European
members, while using the bludgeon of oil to enforce
U.S. policy. At the same time, the British-French,
by their withdrawal on a gradual basis, are paving
the way for reconciliation, though it is to be hoped
that it will not on their side savor of apology or
surrender; their proceedings, since the original
action was taken, have savored of vacillation and
sometimes of positive weakness, however right in
principle.
Winston Churchill, in a letter to the chairman
of his constituency the other day, wrote: “I am
confident that our American friends will come to
realise that, not for the first time, we have acted
independently for the common good.” If that is
the opinion of the British party in power, as it is
already the opinion of a veiy great number of
informed people with no political axe to grind,
staunchness will pay in the end.
If the Americans, however, intend to maintain
their dictatorial and self-righteous policy of the
past few weeks no association can be maintained
except on the basis that the British Commonwealth
or the United Kingdom is a helot of the United
States. And that is unthinkable. In spite of the
abasement of Labor and the gutter-press, Britain
is still one of the great Powers.
How Public Servants Multiply
GOOD fellows though they may be individually,
public servants in the mass have never been very
popular with the public they are intended to serve,
although they have advanced a long way since
Biblical times, when, for purposes of classification,
they were rather loosely lumped-in with the
sinners.
In those days, apart from the soldiery,
taxgatherers comprised the bulk of the public
servants; today the position is somewhat different.
Only a small percentage of present-day public
servants are engaged in collecting tax-money; the
vast majority are concerned with spending it. Not,
of course, that this is cited as their principal
function when the Public Service Board considers
their duties or when the chiefs of the various depart-
ments prepare the annual estimates of how much
their own particular brigade will require out of
next year’s tax-collections to enable it to function
on a scale slightly, but not too obviously, in advance
of this year’s standard. But in the mind of most
taxpayers the spending function of the public
servant is by far his most important reason for
existing.
It will be conceded, even by the most rabid
critics of the public service, that there must be
some people on the public payroll. No one
advocates a society in which there is no machinery
for enforcing the law, for administering justice,
for regulating health and for doing certain other
things. It’s those “other things” that cause all
the argument, and this may range from the views
of those who would like to see the whole working-
population on the public payroll to those to whom
every additional public servant represents one more
nail in the coffin of private enterprise and one
more step along the road to the bureaucratic State.
Somewhere in between the two extremes is the
optimum point—the level at which the affairs of
the country can be efficiently administered without
weakening the efficiency of the commercial
economy. And somewhere above that —and
probably not very far above it——is the danger-point,
beyond which the public service ceases to be a
service and becomes an incubus, a stiffing
development and weighing-down the economy of
the country.
That such a danger-point exists is recognised
even by some who a few years ago would have
stoutly opposed its possibility. An article in a
recent “I.P.A. Review” quotes a Fabian Society
tract by British Labor publicist, R. H. Crossman,
in which he warns that “the growth of a vast
centralised State bureaucracy constitutes a grave
potential threat to social democracy. The idea
that we are being disloyal to our Socialist principles
if we attack its excesses or defend the individual
against its incipient despotism is a fallacy.”
It is impossible to state conclusively just what
level is the optimum-point and what the danger-
point; they probably vary from country to country.
But many people feel that in Australia the present
level is somewhere between the two points. This
is because of the huge increase in public employ-
ment (and public spending) since the war.
Stressing that “an ever-expanding Government
service endangers the everyday freedom of the
individual and ultimately democracy itself,” the
“Review” quotes figures to show that between
1939 and 1956 the number of Government
employees in Australia increased by 81 per cent.
In the same period the population rose only 35
per cent., but as the figure for the later date
includes a much higher proportion of children, a
fairer comparison is with the total numbers of
wage- and salary-earners for the two periods. There
the increase was 60 per cent., a long way short
of the public-service growth.
By far the greatest increase has been in the
numbers on the Federal payroll. Municipal
employees increased by 16 per cent.; State Govern-
ment employees by 65 per cent.; Federal employees
by 207 per cent.
Much of the growth in the Commonwealth
employment force can be explained by additional
responsibilities assumed by Canberra since 1939.
The scope of social-service benefits has been widely
extended; income-tax administration has been
taken-over from the States; defence and repatriation
demands have increased; huge public-works
programmes are in progress. But the increase has
occurred mainly on the administrative side:—
The increase in the size of the administrative
public service from 9 per 1000 of the population
in 1939 to 14 per 1000 today seems quite out of
line with the increases shown for other types of
Government employment.
Most of this administrative growth has been
in the Commonwealth departments, uniform taxa-
tion having given the Commonwealth the where-
withal “to indulge in administrative luxuries which
the State Governments could not afford.”
In 1939, a Cabinet of 16 (including Assistant
Ministers), 10 departments (excluding the P.M.G.’s
Department) and a staff of 7000 permanent officers,
assisted by 5000 temporary personnel, sufficed to
run the affairs of the Commonwealth Government.
Today there are no less than 24 departments
(other than the P.M.G.) with almost as many
Ministers, 35,000 permanent officers and a further
40,000 “temporaries.”
It has often been said that it is the ambition
of every civil servant to build-up his desk into a
department. A writer in the London “Economist”
claims to have reduced this tendency to a formula.
His reasoning runs like this: Civil servant A is
overworked and has three alternative courses of
action. He may resign, ask to share his work with
a colleague or ask for the assistance of two
subordinates. The first alternative means loss of
pension and the second means bringing a rival into
the line of promotion. Both are discarded and the
third adopted. He cannot ask for one subordinate;
this would have the same effect as the second
alternative. By asking for (and getting) two he
preserves his own position.
It can, says the writer, be taken as axiomatic
that “subordinates are always a multiple of the
chief,” and this applies all along the line. Thus
when C, one of the subordinates, eventually becomes
overworked, A will automatically have to give him
two subordinates, D and E, which, of course, means
that B will also have to be accommodated with two
further officials, F and G.
A now has a staff of six, and is well on the
way to having a department of his own. As seven
officials are now doing what one did before and
all are fully occupied—especially A, who has to
supervise the other six—the Law of Multiplication
of Subordinates is parallelled in the Law of
Multiplication of Work. Turning mathematical, the
“Economist” writer then applies these laws to other
data and produces “Parkinson’s Formula,” which,
he claims, will give the annual percentage-increase
in any department. This, he says, will invariably
be between five and six per cent. Pleasant nonsense,
of course, but the 81 per cent, increase in Govern-
ment employees in Australia in the 17 years since
1939 does come uncannily close to five per cent, a
year.
Perhaps Professor Bland’s Public Accounts
Committee should have a look *at the Parkinson
Formula.


A TIME FOR CELEBRATION!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Staving-off the Evil Day
The N.S.W. Cahill Government for ages
has been wanton in its financing. It has
allowed its assets to be wasted. It has
not insisted on having value for its money
from those who work for it. Its “works”
drag on year after year behind inflation
and are instruments of political bribery
rather than the public utilities they are
supposed to be.
Its assets become more and more
dilapidated and shabby as its financial
troubles increase. Its transport services
grow more and more expensive, run as
they are for the benefit of the employees
rather than for the convenience of the
users. Also, cost of travel goes up and up.
The Auditor-General made comments
in his last report which should have had
every taxpayer up on his toes inquiring
what the trouble was all about; but the
newspapers didn’t find space to deal with
the issue adequately, and some of them
made the alarmed comments of the
leaders of the Opposition sound as if
they were merely the carping criticisms
of disgruntled men.
Mr. Campbell, the Auditor-General,
pointed out, inter alia, that the cash
balance of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund, as shown on its Account Current,
“may be accepted broadly as a guide to
the financial condition of the State after
making-good losses of business under-
takings. At June 30, 1956, the balance
was an overdraft of £4,805,608.” He
added that “for a more complete assess-
ment of the overall position there are
also to be considered losses of many
years’ standing which, when incurred,
were charged to an Advances Account
rather than treated as revenue
deficiencies,” the total so dealt with,
however, being progressively edged out
of Consolidated Revenue till a mere
£2,024,000 was still outstanding.
However, for all practical purposes the
overdraft amounts in combined accounts,
a net amount of £5,680,097, “may be
accepted as the measure of the State’s
revenue leeway carried over to 1956-57.”
While the going made it possible, the
Treasurer has been using the credit of
trust-moneys, working accounts and funds
held for particular objectives for general
purposes to a point at which at the end
of 1955-56 “undoubtedly the limits of
prudence had been reached,” according
to the Auditor-General’s view.
Now matters obviously have gone from
bad to worse. Cruel rises in fares and
freights and the new exactions of the
1956-57 Budget have failed to check
what Mr. Campbell called moderately
“the adverse turn in finances.” Mr.
Cahill’s supine acceptance of the 11s.
rise in the basic wage assured that. And
it appears that if the Federal Treasury
had not come to. the rescue with a loan of
over £8,000,000 in short-term Treasury
bills N. S. Wales State servants might
have faced Christmas without their
November pay.
On the actual position Mr. Cahill has
nothing informative to say. It is inescap-
able that N.S.W. faces a mounting threat
of default, and as Mr. Morton,
Leader of the Opposition, remarked,
transport costs have become unmanage-
able and the loan can do no more than
stave off Nemesis. The Government now
appears to have nothing to gamble on
save the hope that the “C”-series index,
for the application of which to State
wages Mr. Cahill is personally
responsible, will show a decrease on the
current quarter sufficient to enable the
Treasury to carry on, with the help of
poker-machines tax and hire-purchase
tax.
If it doesn’t, then serious trouble lies
ahead. The demand that Mr. Cahill
should show the public the state of the
Treasury accounts week by week is
reasonable. But Mr. Cahill will run a
mile rather than do it.
£3OOO a Year
“Collins Street” : It is news worthy of
some prominence when a scientist of 31
years is appointed to a post at £3OOO a
year, although most young executives in
the motor trade, real-estate and similar
selling businesses would regard themselves
as close to the breadline on less.
The scientist whose appointment has
been announced with a flourish is
Geoffrey Douglas, a Melbourne Univer-
sity graduate in zoology who was later
engaged on entomological work with the
Lands Department and is currently a
research-officer in the wild-life section of
the C.5.1.R.0. until he leaves to direct the
campaign against rabbits in Victoria for
the State Government.
Top scientists in the C.5.1.R.0. will,
no doubt, be pleased to lose his devoted
services, since the appointment marks the
recognition by the Bolte Government of
the fact that rabbit-control is not merely
an administrative work and that the
scientific approach, in the study of
biology and breeding, and the devising of
methods of control, is at least equally
important.
The appointment doesn’t limit the
scientist to a myxomatosis campaign, and
here the Government has been prepared
to pay a good enough salary to a good
man to give him responsibility of the
general war against the rabbit. Myxoma-
tosis remains the major means, but there
are supplementary means of combating
the rabbit which are complementary.
Although the appointment has been
made possible by a Commonwealth grant
(for wool-research) and the three-year
term is conditional on additional grants,
there has been, in Victoria, at least, a
stirring of public conscience, particularly
in recent months, at the miserable salaries
paid to scientists.
This hasn’t been due to noted scientists
leaving their ivory towers to proclaim
publicly that it was time the rewards for
scientific work were equated to their value
to the nation, but, partly at least, to the
discovery by more outspoken persons in
related activities that what these fellows
do in their laboratories in surveys does,
surprisingly, affect the nation.
In a decade a scientist may not have
to. try to explain, to his sceptical wife
and children, that his work is sufficient
reward.
Restless Young Mon
Of his tour to open the Olympic Games,
the Duke of Edinburgh spent 11 days
in Victoria: six crowded with engage-
ments, four at the Games, and one
day off.
Such an energetic, impatient young
man, free of the restraints of a formal
Royal tour and the presence of his
tranquil and very English wife, could be
expected to make a few gaffes, and he
did; but they arose chiefly from manful
attempts to keep the verbal red-carpets
in the attics and to make a sporting
occasion as informal as he could.
Those who may have expected a shirt-
sleeved Duke because of his rather wistful
hints about the sort of tour he would
enjoy must know nothing of the com-
pulsions and duties of Royal personages ;
but the Duke drove his own car, often
very fast; he wore lounge-suits whenever
he could and black ties in preference to
white ; he complained sharply of clock-
work schedules and broke them to greet
the kids ; and he popped in, making time,
on gatherings where he was not com-
mitted to appear.
The longest speech he made lasted five
minutes, when he became the first Free-
man of Melbourne, and he was able to
talk in human terms about a city he liked
very much as a midshipman (not to
mention Melbourne beers, which is
understandable for those who have lately
quaffed the English); but most of his
talks lasted less than a minute, and his
chief speech, in opening the Games, ran
to 16 words.
The example had little effect on Mel-
bourne speakers, and he had to listen to a
number, almost all of which were poorly
phrased, cliche-laden and fawning, if not
bootlicking, and all of which were too
long. The most hair-raising sentence was
Lord Mayor Selleck’s, at a Town Hall
reception:
It is with misty eyes and pulsating hearts
that citizens recollect the visit of her
Majesty and yourself in 1954.
Poppycock of this sort is damaging to
Royalty ; every listener knows it is untrue.
It must be galling for a keen-witted
young man like the Duke to be compelled
to listen to such stuff. He has knocked
round the world, and clearly intends to
continue doing so, with the greatest
possible economy in time and words.
Degrees of Murder
“D.”: With the commuting of the death-
sentence on John Mcßae, the 19-year-
old Gippsland man who killed his sister,
a beauty-contest winner, at Bairnsdale,
the Bolte Government established a
record. Six murderers in the Govern-
ment’s 18 months of office have had their
death-sentences commuted to imprison-
ment.
They are S. Bartoszs, who killed his
New Australian employer at Myrtleford
(20 years); Murray Jones, the half-caste,
who killed an innkeeper in the Mallee
(18 years); May Cochran, who killed her
daughter at Morwell (10 years); Ludwig
Szwechlowicz, who killed his de facto
wife in a car at Seymour (life-imprison-
ment) ; Arnold Curtis, who killed his
wife in a car at Hamilton (life-
imprisonment) ; and Mcßae.
Mcßae’s age was no indication of his
mental ability. Unofficial reports to the
Cabinet when his case was considered
gave his mental age as a backward eight
years, but no mention of this was made
in the bald announcement from the State
Executive Council that the sentence had
been commuted, although a rider was
added that Mcßae would be detained,
after his sentence had been served, during
the Governor’s pleasure.
Since 1939 four people have been
hanged in Victoria. There have been
204 tried for murder, of whom 83 have
been acquitted, 64 found guilty of man-
slaughter, 35 guilty and 18 guilty but
insane.
All of the cases which the Bolte
Cabinet has had .to consider have been,
to some degree, crimes of passion, and
the commuting of the sentences has
passed without public outcry, other than
the increasing voices raised against the
retention of the death-penalty and the
unacceptable position of a murderer’s
fate being decided by the color of the
political party in power.
Attorney-General Rylah recently asked
the Crown Law Department to consider
and report on the possibility of introduc-
ing into Victoria the system, used in parts
of the United States, in which verdicts of
first-, second- and third-degree murders
could be returned.
This would have eased the burden and
pressure on politicians of deciding the
fate of a killer in a borderline case, and,
in a case in which a jury had found first-
degree murder, coffsiderably strengthened
their resolution.
The Crown Law Department’s report
was cavalier: its officers could not decide
whether a man was guilty of first-,
second- or third-degree murder before a
trial. The answer, of course, is that it
has not been asked to do so. The
question is one for a jury.
U.N.O. Goes to War
“Ek Dum”: With British troops —about
20,000 including supernumeraries—
moving out of Egypt, the United Nations
has set about taking over. The first move
to create the force was made on
November 7.
Dr. Ralph Bunche, the Negro pro-
fessor discovered by Mr. Roosevelt, who
later received the Nobel Prize for his
work for peace in Israel and the Arab
zone in 1948, along with the highest
honor that Haiti could award him, was
selected to expedite the organisation of
the force.
A U.N.O. spokesman told the story.
On November 8, it appears, “We
thought it desirable, for a number of
reasons, to demonstrate as quickly as
possible that there was going to be a
U.N. force and that, therefore, we should
try to get something concrete started,
even without possibility of careful
planning.”
On the date of .the briefing eight days
later it seemed that the Secretary-General
had not asked for contributions of
contingents to the force, but no less than
23 States had offered contingents,
including Afghanistan and Chile.
It appeared to the informant of the
press-briefing, “One of the difficult prob-
lems during this week has been, let us
say, to fend-off immediate acceptance of
all the offers in order that General Burns
could have a chance to study the type
of military organisation he needs.”
Within a week, with the assistance of
the United States airlift in particular, a
beginning had been made at landing the
first units in Egypt. The representatives
of the first countries to be accepted for
service “had conferences every day....
Canada, Colombia, Denmark, Finland,
India, Norway, Sweden and, in the last
two days, Yugoslavia.” And they
obtained the assistance of General
Coulter, a military officer who
“happened to be here and we just drafted
him temporarily to sit-in and work with
us.”
The U.N. officials seem to have been
awed by their enormous task. They
found transportation and supply still
great problems, and without the assist-
ance of the various countries they could
not have coped, they felt, with the job.
Some of the things they encountered
completely staggered them. They found,
for instance, that soldiers “are reluctant
to be separated from their vehicles”:
We were trying to get troops from all
over the world—Colombians from Bogota,
Indians from Agra, Scandinavians from
their capitals, and so on. We requested
them to bring along a ten-day supply of
rations, their personal arms and side-arms
and tentage. It was one thing to arrange
for transportation of personnel and their
light equipment another thing to trans-
port their vehicles They would leave
their wives but they never want to leave
their jeeps. We found that out. The
United States airlift worked wonders.
Then there was the problem of the
weather. • It can be cold around the
Sinai Desert in December, as the A.L.H.
know, so troops must carry “tent-
stoves.” One bunch turned up equipped
with wood-burning stoves:
Discussion developed that it was not
likely that they could forage much wood
in the Suez Canal and Sinai Peninsula. We
therefore had to replace the wood-burning
stoves with oil-burning stoves, although I do
not know whether we shall be able to get
oil for them either in that. area. We
have many problems of the kind.
But these strains on .the world
organisation were nothing to what
happened when the problem of headgear
cropped up.
There are two basic military uniform-
patterns in the world —American and
British. Some of the eager volunteers,
especially the Indians, no doubt, were
“wearing uniforms which were strikingly
similar to, if not identical to, the British
uniforms” —if there is anything an Indian
officer likes it is to be mistaken for a
British officer.
Now,
As you know, the British are about
to leave, and they lack some popularity
in that particular area. It was pointed out
that it might not be entirely healthy for our
units to come and be mistaken for British
Tommies. The idea was to get some very
distinguishable United Nations identification
for them something that was dis-
cernible from a distance so that snipers
might be warned.
However, the U.N. was in earnest, and
it is not a body which was easily beaten.
They “put Mr. Vaughan”—nationality
not stated—to work, “and the U.N.
phone-bill is going to be immense because
he phoned all over the world one whole
day in attempting to locate military
berets which could be quickly dyed
light-blue.”
Horrors! The only berets he could
find which were suitable “were British
navy-blue, which was no good.”
Finally, it was decided to use the
plastic helmet-liners worn by American
troops under their steel helmets. The
U.N. informant made the discovery,
which he revealed to the astonished press-
conference, that “the steel outer-cover
offers protection from bullets. The
plastic undercover is a helmet in itself,
but gives no protection against bullets.”
No, indeed. But it could be dyed
light-blue, so the operation could go on.
The permission of the Secretary-General
was obtained to have both helmet-liners
and berets. Then
the military men said that if we were going
to have the helmet-liners we should also
have the steel helmets, because there might
be some instances in which they were
needed. We therefore ordered all three.
So to “expedite the organisation” the
headgear became American. It was
obtained from the U.S. depot near
Naples;
They were obtained immediately, were
sprayed U.N.-blue and in less than 24 hours
the first detachments of the U.N.E.F. took
off for Egypt wearing blue helmets. In
about ten days they will have their berets,
one of which we are modelling upstairs
this morning.
Also, all the men are carrying an identity-
card which states: “This is to certify that
the bearer whose signature appears hereon
is a member of the United Nations
Emergency Force.” There is a place for
the signature of the bearer and the signature
of the Secretary-General or his representa-
tive. The card is printed in the four
languages of the countries involved in the
conflict: Arabic, English, French ana
Hebrew. This is not an entirely new thing,
(<Continued on next page)
START READING
LOW'S
Autobiography
on page 26


because we have identity-cards of this
kind in other areas we had them first of
ail in Palestine in 1948.
It was only when the first units had
left for the front in their light-blue
headgear that “the second stage” was
reached and it was “possible to plan
military organisation in terms of what
is needed as supporting units, supply
units, quartermaster units, signal-corps
units, transportation units and ambulance
and hospital units.”
On the latest information, about 4200
troops of the volunteering nations, armed
with their own kinds of arms, but
apparently de facto under control of
United States nominees and advisers at
the organising end, had landed or were
about to land under cover of the British
and French when this was written.
Nobody seemed to have the vaguest kind
of idea what function they were to carry
out.
The Secretary-General seemed, by
December 6, when another communique
was issued, to have been invaded by the
personality of Mr. Micawber and to be
exclaiming, “Thank God, that’s done.”
As to Egypt, his communique
announced that certain Dutch and Danish
salvage craft were proceeding to the
Mediterranean —it would be unthinkable
tn use British craft, infinitely more
powerful, already there.
The one disturbing feature is that
“English is used for official communica-
tions.” This is appalling. If Nasser hears
about it he won’t give the force any
medals.
POLITICAL POINIS
On Monday the result of the Went-
worth (N.S.W.) by-election was still very
open, with Bury, the endorsed Liberal
candidate, likely to win by a short head
from Independent Liberal Robson in the
final split-up of preferences. Figures at
that stage were: Bury, 13,805; Robson,
6369 ; Starr (Labor), 6413 ; Bartley (Local
Lib.), 4073 ; Sindel (Ind.), 1433 ; Laing
(True Lib.), 1406.
• •
Sydney “Herald,” on the result of the
primary-vote count in Wentworth, which
gave Bury a clear majority over all the
independents:
The voting is regarded as strong criticism of
the Menzies Government.
Much more likely was that personalities
played a major role. Robson and
Bartley, who between them polled over
10,000 primaries, are well known in the
electorate, in which they live. Both are
prominent in public life. Bury was
unknown to almost every constituent
until he won the preselection.
• •
Final tally in the Sydney municipal
elections left “Labor” still in control of
the City Council. In addition to Lord
Mayor Jensen the party will have 10
aldermen. Citizens’ Reform will be
represented by 4, Liberals 3, Democratic
“Labor” 2 ahd Communists 1. Com-
pared with the old council the “Labor”
strength is down one, with a correspond-
ing increase in the combined Citizens’
Reform-Liberal number; the two D.L.P.
men won at the expense of an Indepen-
dent “Labor” alderman and a Communist.
Both at this election and in 1953 the
Communist party drew first place on the
ballot-paper. In looking for a reason
for their reduced vote they can take their
pick between public disgust at events in
Hungary or public disapproval of Com-
munists in civic affairs.
• »
The London “Times” correspondent
sums-up the United Nations’ Emergency
Force as seen in Egypt:
This extraordinarily mixed international
force, diversely armed and equipped, with-
out the benefit of one day’s training together
before being deployed, with hardly any
common tradition.... without any kind of
preparation. Even now (Dec. 2) nobody
seems to know precisely how they are to be
supplied or what their duties are....
armed police duties at a few points
represents the limit of their ability.
• •
“Australian Music Week is being celebrated in
N.S.W.”
The noise of sonata and song will be
drowned
By the Doc., with performance for which
he’s renowned —
Harping on one of his favorite themes:
Poor Nasser, the victim of Eden’s dark
schemes !
• •
Some alarm is felt by the Federal
council of the Country party about the
West New Guinea dispute, and a motion
by the N.S.W. branch was carried by the
council meeting in Canberra. This sug-
gested that, in view of the statement by
the Indonesian Prime Minister that Indo-
nesia would take over West New Guinea
by force if necessary, the Federal
Government should organise opposition
at once to the expected approach to the
United Nations, and that, in case
Indonesia resorted to armed attack, an
adequate U.N. force should be available
at once to resist. In Canberra, it is
believed that the West New Guinea matter
will come before the General Assembly
soon after the brief Christmas recess.
• •
Instinctively The Bulletin’s mail-
clerk handed this year’s balance-sheet of
the Commonwealth Trading Bank to the
Art Editor instead of the Financial Editor.
The Art Editor is hanging on to it. A
second edition of the balance-sheet seems
necessary to meet the demand from
connoisseurs.
• •
The UNOted States of America!
• •
w'n ° St * e ” : The tragic rail-smash at
V\ allumbilla culminates a series of col-
lisions and derailments in all parts of
Queensland, some publicised and some
not, which have plagued the Queensland
To give more details of the multipli-
cation of Commonwealth civil servants
(leader-page, this issue), the Department
of External Affairs got along with a
crew of 30 before the war ; at June 30,
1956, it topped 800. Embassies or
legations are maintained in the United
States, France, Holland, Indonesia, Eire,
Japan, West Germany, the Philippines,
Thailand, Burma, Brazil, Israel, Italy,
Egypt, Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia;
there are High Commissioners in London,
Ottawa, Wellington, Karachi, Delhi, Cape
Town, Colombo; other representatives
in New York, Singapore, Malaya, New
Caledonia, Geneva, Athens, Copenhagen,
Hong Kong and San Francisco.
External Affairs is an example of a
department which has grown from small
beginnings; the Interior is one which
has proliferated four new departments—
Immigration, Territories, Works, Shipping
and Transport—without getting any
smaller itself. The four new depart-
ments have 14,793 on the payroll; the
old one had 4051 in 1939 and 3990 in
June, 1956. The Treasury employed 2109
in 1939. It has shed Social Services
(which now employs 2290) yet still finds
desks for 8544. Other examples are
Defence (pre-war, 1297 ; today, 18,763);
Health (576; 2427); Prime Minister’s
Department (398 ; 1263); Attorney-
General’s Department (437; 954);
Trade, Customs, Commerce and Agricul-
ture, now reconstructed under various
heads (2839 ; 4527).
Much of this expansion is the result
of Government policy, but a considerable
proportion seems to have occurred in
spite of attempts to economise. Some
departments apparently keep on growing
just for the hell of it.
• •
Former of the Japs are to
receive a further £54 each, making £B2
in all. The new payment will also be made
to the relatives of deceased prisoners. It
is little enough for the men concerned in
view of their sufferings, but it includes
the Australian share of the £44 million
sterling paid last year by Japan to the
International Committee of the Red Cross
under the terms of the peace-treaty, and
also the Australian share in the proceeds
of the sale of the notorious Burtna-Siam
railway.
• •
Papuan rubber from the 28,000
acres now planted represents about 7 per
cent, of Australian requirements, but
Territories Minister Paul Hasluck is cer-
I railways in the past weeks. Ironically
enough, they occurred after an economy
and efficiency drive within the depart-
ment. The inquiry which is to be open
to the public may be an opportunity to
ventilate a question that has been worry-
ing the public for some time: Why so
many crack-ups, Mr. Moriarty?
• •
Wheatfarmers are not making the
profits out of the rising prices of wheat,
according to Mrs. I. L. Waight, Federal
secretary of the Primary Producers’
Union, and she adds the pertinent point
that Australia produces wheat more
cheaply than any other country. A state-
ment which she issued in Canberra
deserves some pondering. She said that
in 1920 the price of bread was 6£d. a loaf,
and wheat was 7s. 6d. a bushel. Bread today
is nearly three times as dear, yet wheat at
13s. Bd. a bushel is not twice the price it
was in 1920. In 1920, also, the* farmer's
share of a 21b. loaf costing 6|d. was 3|d.
At Is. 6d. a loaf, the farmer’s share is
now only about 6d.
If the farmers had been making the
profits, Mrs. Waight said, the pre-war
wheat-acreage of 13 million would not
have dropped to less than 10 million
today.
• •
A year’s jail and fines of up to £lOO can
be imposed under new regulations of the
Victorian Forests Commission for light-
ing fires in some areas, throwing-down
matches or cigarettes or carelessness with
phosphorus bait. Bolte is determined to
lose his State’s gold-medal for the biggest
bushfires.
• •
“Nobody,” said Dr. Evatt, “would like
to see a Right-wing dictatorship in
Hungary.” The Doc. —who by some
strange power of remote-control has his
finger on the pulse of public-opinion in
that country —was silent on the Left-
wing dictatorship there that has been
so bloodily suppressing the workers’
revolt against tyranny.
• •
The Egyptian Underground ordered a
Day of Spitting to mark the withdrawal
of British and French troops from Port
Said. Nothing unusual or imaginative
about that for Port Said.
tain that the Territory is capable of pro-
ducing all our needs. He says that
new areas have been planted in the last
few years, and old areas replanted with
high-yielding trees. Exports rose from
1198 tons in 1948-49 to 3789 tons
in 1955-56, and the estimate is
for 4000 tons in 1957-58, valued
at £1.27 million. At least 10,000 additional
acres in Papua have been declared suit-
able for rubber-planting, and prospects in
Bougainville are being investigated.
• •
Calwell is predicting that bank-
nationalisation may easily be a major
issue at the next Federal election. Does
he want it that way, or does he feel that at
least it might be the means of purging
“Labor” of the Doc.?
ON THE LEASH


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
THE last of my illusions has just gone
down the drain: Father Christmas,
in full regalia, rushed into a large Sydney
store, punched the bundy and, panting
slightly, hurried to his work. —“Oliver
Filter.”
♦> *x* ❖
“Apemantus”: When I was such a
little lad I played delightedly with toy tin
soldiers. Now that I’m old and blase
and hard to entertain, please could I have
for this Christmas just one squad of
Marching Girls?
♦> ❖ ❖
“Kenyas”: Every Christmas I receive
greeting-cards from Jewish friends and
have decided they must be more tolerant
than most folk —how many cards do
we send them during the seasons of their
important festivals? I intend to post
them some next year, but haven’t the
faintest idea when. Would it be at Jewish
New Year, or at Passover, or at the Feast
of Lights? Trying to figure it out has
taught me how little I know about things
important to the other chap.
“She's certainly dressed to kill!”
“Sack”: Young niece received a letter
from a New Australian schoolmate who
had moved to another district. The lass,
according to her written word, had been
to see Satan, and, by the general tone of
the letter, His Satanic Majesty was a
vastly different kind of bloke from the
accepted impression of him. (Heine
always maintained he was a gentleman.)
In fact, it was alarmingly obvious that
the writer had become a confirmed Devil-
worshipper—until we got the “n” in its
right place. At that, she mightn’t have
been so far out —Santa can be the very
devil to impecunious uncles around this
time of year.
♦> ❖ ❖
“C.W.S.”: It may be that the crates
are still on Hobart’s wharves waiting to
be unloaded, but I’ve still to see some of
those hats that are
such a godsend to
Bully artists of late.
Do they wear them
or inhabit them?
♦♦♦ ❖
“Ladimac”: I
hovered nervously on
the corner of a busy
Sydney street waiting
to cross while cars
streamed by. Then
a taxi-driver pulled-
up and, leaning out
of the window, called
“Go on, young lady,
don’t be afraid.” So,
regardless of the
glares of other
drivers, I trotted
across not only not
harmed, but not
“Miss,” not “Sis” —
“Young lady!”
❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Filthy
lucre is right! It’s
not for nothing that
old notes sent back
for cancellation are
known in the trade as
“stinkers.” There
used to be a banking-house in the Strand,
London, where all coin was thoroughly
washed before being paid-out to custo-
mers, many of whose names were in
Debrett. Perhaps some Australian bank
will start the washing-routine here. It
would be a nice counterblast to lavish
displays of orchids and such antics.
* ❖ *l*
“0.F.”: I was intrigued to read in our
suburban paper of a wedding:
... .the guests being received by Mrs.
and.Mrs. , attired in Chartreuse
crepe with pigskin accessories respectively.
♦l* ♦> *l+
“Sevenelms”: Quarto - size church-
offering envelopes that caught “Nimrod’s”
eye (B. 28/11/’56) derive from American
methods now being used in Australia,
not only to outlaw the humble trey but to
discourage the florin, conventionally the
maximum usual offering by infrequent
and prosperous churchgoers. These
envelopes have a space for the amount
to be written in by the giver and, to help
him get off to a good start, the sign
preceding the dotted line is simply £
Our little bush church up the road,
struggling along on a weekly take of £4,
with some desperation and much doubt
plunged into this newfangled system:
their Sunday take shot up to £4O.
“Youanmi”: I, too, thought the girls
in the Chinese Classical Theatre were
little humdingers (B. 21/11 /’56), but,
after the initial impact, I found the long
excerpts from Chinese opera, which
preluded the amazing dances, plays and
acrobatics, a little tiresome—so much so
that I fell to fitful dozing. I was awakened
each time by that terrific clanging of
cymbals—possibly that’s what they’re for
—and it eased my cultural conscience
considerably to note that, every time I
woke, two immaculately-dressed Chinese
in the front row of the circle were
soundly snoozing throughout .the operatic
excerpt.
v v v
“Meem”: The staff of a Repat.-
hospital were organising our Christmas
“Shie’s got six months to go yet under her contract .”
party. One of the Sisters rang the
brewery (as she thought) for a quote. An
agitated voice came over the phone,
almost rising to high C: "Beer? This
is the People’s Palace!”
*l* »> ♦>
“Doric”: Was amazed to meet a born-
and-bred Londoner who had never been
inside Westminster Abbey—until I
thought a bit and realised that I had
never seen the interior of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney.
❖ <* *>
“Blufire”: When he visited Pucka-
punyal on a sports-afternoon Army
Minister Cramer observed several signs
pinned up: “T.0.T.E.,” and inquired if a
bit of betting was going on*. Then it was
explained the signs stood for “Table of
Tools and Equipment.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cash Count”: I’m as fond of roast
pork as the next man, but I’m glad Mrs.
C.C. does not serve it as recommended by
the cookeiy - expert of Melbourne
“Herald.” A sucking-pig, it seems, should
be brought to the table set on a bed of
watercress, a rosy red apple in its mouth,
and berries for eyes. It should have a gar-
land of leaves around its neck. The diner
who would not lose his appetite at such
a sight deserves a garland himself, and
maybe an apple wedging tight his
dentures.
♦> ❖ ♦♦♦
“Ess”: From the memoirs of Dame
Mabel Brookes:
Perhaps it is the accolade of posterity
that dictates the foundations upon which
the great stand.
Yes, a mixed lot they are, too, keeping
a precarious foothold on a mixed
metaphor.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“S.M.S.”: In a crowded Sydney tram
the conductor couldn’t get through to
collect the fares. “You can all have this
on the Government,” he said with a
shrug and, leaning up against the nearest
door, took out a paper and began to read.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Schinf”: Several tailors came aboard
when we called at Hong Kong, and the
retired British major selected the one
with a suit-length to his liking, agreed
to a price after the usual haggle, pro-
duced a well-worn but obviously Bond-
street suit, and demanded that his new
one be a perfect replica in cut. The tailor
departed with the suit and a promise that
all would be complete by the following
morning. That evening the major,
strolling in a side-street off Nathan-
road, chanced upon the tailor’s shop, and,
deciding to enlarge on some small detail
of his suit, rang the counter-bell. No
answer. He peered through a curtained
doorway. His horrified “It can’t be! ”
brought the proprietor running, for laid
ou t on the floor were the pieces of the
Bond-street suit, completely unstitched,
The next few minutes were somewhat
confused, but resulted in the major being
informed that he “should never have seen
suc h a thing so embarrassing it is, and
if the gentleman will only be patient, all
will be well in the morning.” And it was.
The major was still trying to fault his
reassembled suit when we disembarked at
Sydney.
“Loki”: My belief in the infallibility
of Bulletin contributors was shadowed
when I came across this par. in browsing
through an old 30/9/’09 issue: —
Chloe, that sweet study of a young
woman in the nude which shocked the
Melbourne Grundies when it was loaned
to the local National Gallery by Surgeon
Fitzgerald a quarter of a century ago, was
sold last week to Young (of Young and
Jackson’s pub) for £800. Young has some
good pictures hanging in the bar-room of
the pub ; but Chloe, presumably, is
destined for his private house, and will not
be expended on the firm’s drinkery.
Maybe there’s so many who want to
have a drink with her she just hasn’t been
able to tear herself away.
£♦ ♦>
“North Esk”: When some Launceston
(Tas.) folk made strong criticism of the
conduct of teenagers doing the “Rock ’n’
roll” in one of the city’s halls, a writer
classing himself as a bodgie appealed
through the press for the use of a hall
where they could wear any clothes and
enjoy all the “rock”-music they wanted.
Mayor Dorothy Edwards straightway
accepted the challenge, asking for toler-
ance of unconventional dress and dancing
habits, and arranged for a suitable hall
and orchestra.
*X* ❖
“Bo”: The expensive pile in Sydney
which houses the senior State’s Milk
Board carries by night an illuminated
action-ad. It shows a tipped jug pouring
out milk —not into a cup, a jug, or glass,
but spilling-out over imaginary ground
or table ... an apt depiction of waste.
❖ ❖ ❖
“B.A.H.”: One of our medicos was
also an Army doctor during the war, and
seeing his car around town I wonder
whether it was by chance or design that
he was allotted the number-plate “9999.”
The “Number Nine” was a brown-
colored tablet extensively prescribed by
the Army, but the number-plate dosage
is a bit over the fence: even Superman
couldn’t survive four.
* * *
HAVE YOU A MALE RELATIVE-
with a sense of humor, a keen interest in
public affairs, and a taste for good read-
ing? Sounds like a pretty good descrip-
tion of all the menfolk in your family,
doesn’t it? Particularly the potential
Bulletin reader. This year give him a
one-year subscription to The Bulletin
for Christmas. Take you five-minutes;
just fill-in the subscription-form in this
issue and post it. No need to pay now.
Towards Christmas he will receive a card
announcing your gift. An account for
48s. will be sent to you in the New Year.
Be really big—give one to all your male
relatives!
DESIGN FOR LIVING
“Forty-five designs were submitted for the
Sydney Opera House on Benelong Point in the
competition that closed last week.”
Forty-five designs, they’ve got
For Sydney’s Opera-house-to-be;
l feel they ought to build the lot
And let the people live there free —
The proper way to live today
Would be as persons in a play.
No worries what to drink or eat,
No rents unpaid, no threadbare coats:
To dine on artificial meat,
To pay in artificial notes
(As in a dream that still occurs
To many “Labor” Premiers ),
To know at once a vile deceiver,
To kiss the lips that never lie,
To live in comedy for ever
Or, in a tragedy, to die
Of love, disease, or full of fight,
But only till tomorrow night —
There’s many a Parliamentary Act
Promoting some Utopia,
Written with disdain for fact,
That might succeed in opera:
We could do worse than live in
heaven
Daily from eight until eleven.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T SUPPOSE it’s a sign of encroaching
senility when middle-aged blokes start
taking note of Miss Australia contestants
in evening-papers, but I must confess to
bewilderment that so many girls, ranging
from five-feet-one small to five-eight tall,
possess the “vital statistics” of 34, 24, 34.
There have been a few exceptions with
measurements given as 35, 25, 34 and
34, 25, 35, or thereabouts. And that
presents a puzzle; which way do the
figures read: from top to —Good after-
noon, Miss Cholmondeley!—or from—
Yes, I think it will be fine for Christmas —
to top?.—“Sebak.”
"Now what have you done, boss? They're all going home to mother!"
“Croid”: The Roman idea of naming
streets with the full front-name and
surname of the person honored (B.
21/9/’56) is used in Chris Bang-street,
Vaucluse, Sydney. Mr. Christopher
Bang was a very estimable person, I’m
sure —all the same, it’s a hell of a name
for a street.
♦> *z* »>
“Aqua”: Surely our harriers aren’t
becoming a race of sissies? There was
one trotting along a suburban street in
Melbourne in the usual shorts, singlet
and sandshoes—with an umbrella up to
keep off the rain.
♦> +>
“M. T. Edd”: A young couple sitting
just outside the press-bar at Sydney’s
Theatre Royal were obviously trying to
fathom what lay within. “It can’t be,” I
heard the girl whisper to her companion.
“Both men and women go in there.”
+S- * ♦S'
“H.C.8.”: I’ve always liked
to hear a bloke whistling or hum-
ming as he went about his work ;
seemed to be a sure sign that he
was happy in his job and, there-
fore, good at it. Still, as I sat
in the chair while the local fang-
ologist selected appropriate
tools for removing a broken-off
molar, such blitheness of spirit
did seem a little out of place.
The words of the ditty he was
humming seemed, too, touched
with a certain ominous fatalism :
“Whatever will be will be. The
future’s not ours to see,” etc.
Maybe it was as well for me
that the future was obscured —
I had a sore jaw for three weeks
after; and it wasn’t much con-
solation to reflect that “Kismet,”
not the dentist, was to blame.
♦l+ ❖ ❖
“Burr Imul”: So “Man-
cunian’s” English friend (B.
21/11/’56) was surprised to see
household linen called “man- v
Chester” in our shops. Most Aus-
tralians are puzzled, too, by references in
English magazines to “botany cardigans”
or “guaranteed pure botany.” Yet the
Concise Oxford lists both words as repre-
senting cotton and wool, respectively.
£♦
“Postscript”: A Melbourne trammie,
who’s on a promise of ten-quid per new
recruit he enlists —after such recruit has
worked twelve months (B. 28 /11 / ’56) —
at least knows when he’ll collect, pro-
vided his protege sticks. Our Government
department pays—sometimes well —for
bright ideas but not until long, long after
the authors have forgotten they ever
thought of them.
❖ ❖ ❖
“A.J.S.”: Fred Wintle, well-known
printer and sportsman of Perth who
passed on recently,, named his house
Myobb. A church group approached him
with the idea of buying Myobb for a
Manse. Everything ran smoothly till one
of the group said, “That’s rather an
unusual name for your home —aboriginal,
I suppose?” “No,” replied Fred. “ ‘Mind
your own b business.’ ” The church
didn’t buy, and the name Myobb still
stands.
£4 -iji
“Hattie Hop”: He wanted a new truck
badly, but his old one was so decrepit
that no one would take it as a trade-in ;
so he paid a deposit on a television-set
and exchanged it for a secondhand
truck. He’s prepared to keep up the pay-
ments on the set, but he might fail to do
so, and then he will probably be required
to return the hire-purchase, and the man
who is in possession of it may refuse to
give it up! What then?
❖ ❖ *
“Gelt”: There was a time when I
enjoyed tearing the stamps from the
envelopes of my morning mail and
putting them aside for a charitable
organisation which gains a small revenue
“I’LL handle this one, chaps — he's one of our directors."
thereby. But now, with modern office-
efficiency plus the higher postal-rates, I
. find most of my business mail is bulk-
posted, and I have merely a collection
of unsightly machine-made symbols
indicating that postage has been paid.
The disease has struck overseas, and I
am done out of even my pictorial speci-
mens from Papua-New Guinea. Does
this mean that the gentle hobby of
philately goes into the discard?
*z*
“Toju”: Startled by the remarkable
number of multiple-births over the past
ten years, I conclude that it’s getting such
a tough old world that the kids are scared
to come into it alone.
❖ ♦♦♦ **♦
“Lorna Doone”: The good-humored
bus-conductor was coping with a difficult
lady-passenger. Finally she debussed, and
he soliloquised: “Yes, you get all types
—and those ladies who bring their old
man in to town in the morning, park the
car at the section, and hop in. for five-
pennorth . . . Then they go out again
at peak-hour, and pick-up the car. A real
fritz-express, I call it —they’ve all got a
half-of-fritz and a small tin of mustard
to make ’im a hot meal. Yes, I think I’ve
had just about everyone in this city on
me bus in me time. ’Cept the Guv’nor’s
Lady, of course; she has her own
transport! ”
❖ ❖ *t*
“Elem”: Saturday-night cinema;
Army regulations prevent hero and
heroine being married ; they return to
heroine’s flat where a tasty supper is set;
heroine nobly refuses to allow hero to
stay; hero departs for the front, and is
duly posted missing; heroine wails that
now, alas, she can never give him her all.
Small voice from the row behind me:
“All that lovely tucker wasted, Mum!”
❖ ❖ *Z*
“Maitri”: In the days before the Public
Health Act and Pure Foods Act were
pursued with such enthusiasm, there
flourished in London a cafe which
specialised in Continental dishes. Con-
noisseurs agreed that the food there had
an indescribable subtle flavor not to be
encountered in any other eating-house on
earth. Then Government inspectors got
busy, and insisted on all the pots and pans
being discarded and replaced by new
ones. The old cooking-utensils departed,
taking the delicious flavor with them,
together with the customers and the fame
of the restaurant.
❖* ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Wandana”: Until lately I had taken
“vintage car” to mean any old bus that
was on the road in early days, but I’m
now informed that old cars are strictly
categorised: “Pioneer” (the most ancient),
“Veteran” (made prior to 1905).
“Edwardian” (dates between 1905 and
1914), and “Vintage” (between 1914 and
1931). The word “vintage” is, of course,
applied to other things besides the grape-
harvest, but I’m wondering what the tie-up
is with motor-cars. And how are cars
between ’3l and ’5O catalogued?
“Apemantus”: “When ’Omer smote ’is
bloomin’ lyre” the Olympic Games were
not altogether amateur —not for horse-
men, anyway. With no mention of added
money, the Iliad lists the awards for
charioteers: Ist, one cauldron worth
eight oxen; 2nd, one unblemished
woman worth four oxen ; 3rd, one tripod
worth two oxen. The current Stock Sale
figure for “extra prime, weighty,” is near
50 Australian notes, so if you traded-in
your unblemished woman she’d bring you
£2O0 —but would that make her an
amateur?
“D.J.G.”: During the Games Mel-
bourne’s City Council thoughtfully
erected special signs, “Dames, Damen,
Signoren,” outside applicable council
premises, with similar annotations over
male reservations. I couldn’t help think-
ing, though, that speakers of more than
three-score other languages might feel
passed over, and it might have helped
appreciably if some suitable pictorial
representation had been employed as
well. This would have had the added
interest of uniting in one protest the two
most ardent opponents of the picture that
tells a story—the abstract artists and
the evangelists of pictorial purity.
“E.M.”: It was hard enough for any-
one to hire a taxi on Olympic Saturday
afternoon, let alone the man with the
used aluminium sink-cover. He stood at
the side of the Town Hall in Collins-street,
arid signalled. Three taxis ignored him,
and, getting the idea it was his parcel they
objected to, he left his load on the foot-
path, and tried again. A taxi stopped ;
he turned quickly to pick up the sink;
the taxi moved away—fast. This happened
twice. Three girls hailed ; a taxi stopped.
Hiding his load, he stepped smartly up
behind the girls. Just as he was about
to make it the door slammed. Shoulder-
ing his burden he went slowly up
Collins-street hill.
“Narumee”: Winter and spring week-
end walking-out uniform for our Bayside
suburb’s courting couples has, for at least
three seasons, consisted of fisherknit
sweater and jeans, boy and girl alike.
But when the Olympic flag went up over
our yacht-club, the kids meandering along
with linked hands had dug out the oddest
garments to wear —pantaloons and wind-
cheaters in a variety of peculiar colors
and materials. I suspect that some of the
girls, in their efforts to become track-
suited, had borrowed Mum’s winter-
pyjama bottoms!
“Bookie’s Dog”: Melbourne kids who
would normally be playing cricket with a
lamp-post for stumps and a lump of
paling for bat are using the clothes-prop
to pole-vault, putting with any convenient-
sized stone, stripping the trees for
javelins, and throwing the discus-cwm-
jamtin-lid. Had the toy-manufacturers
anticipated the demand, this Christmas
could have been their best bonanza.
“X.S.”: I was showing an Olympic
visitor round Melbourne and drew-up at
the city’s worst traffic whirlpool, the
Spencer-street bridge at peak-time. The
traffic-cop gave the O.K. signal, and I
dutifully, but mistakenly, drove across to
make a righthand turn and then drew-up
behind the constable. He finished directing
the traffic, and stepped over. “Well, it’s a
great pleasure to meet you,” he said,
with our ordained Olympian politeness,
“but I’d sooner you’d drawn-up to the left
with the others.’*
THE FREAKS
“Eskimo wives hold that it is degrading tor
their men to do work which women regard as
their own.” —Radio travel-talk.
I’ve never met an Eskimo,
Nor trod where shines the midnight sun.
I .must confess I wouldn’t know
If there he hunts with spear and gun,
Arrow or sling or poisoned dart;
And if he uses horse-and-cart,
Or simply boots for transportation
From ’berg to ’berg, from floe to floe.
Yet for the unknown Eskimo
1 hold a boundless admiration.
He never burns the midnight oil
{He wouldn’t need to, anyway !)
To catch up with a rush of toil.
His life’s a placid one, I’d say.
A circle on the ice he draws;
Round the perimeter he saws,
Then through that little hole he fishes.
Just sits and meditates with line,
Happy to know that he can dine
And afterwards not wash the dishes.
A real he-man, not given to scare,
He’ll wrastle with a big bull-seal,
Or chase and dong a polar-bear,
Simply to get a tasty meal.
But this he’s not allowed to cook,
Or else they’d think he was a sook.
Oh, deeply shamed the wife of Big Lou
Would be, on coming home, to see
Lou peeling vegetables for tea,
Or vacuuming-through the igloo.
Of these strange habits of Eskimos
To Her last night I started blowing.
No comment. Led me by the nose
Up to the sink, then said: “Get going !”
Ah, well! We can’t all hbld right-bowers
Or cultivate the rarest flowers.
But, on this masculine Utopia
Up north — say, is, it that the men
Have cunning far beyond our ken,
Or is it that their wives are dopier ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
A recent caller at The Bulletin
was Mrs. David Pratten, of Turee, near
Coolah (N.S.W.), whose husband is
managing-partner in .the Turee Hereford
stud. Mrs. Pratten had with her, search-
ing for its history, a curious little copper
tray on which, dated 11/8/’OB, were
engraved the mystic lines:
And ask the men of the furthest back
What their favorite campers are
In the whirling dusk when the stockwhips crack;
It’s D tacked onto an R.
D tacked onto an R is the Turee stud
brand; but the engraving dates back to
the days when the property was owned by
Richard Dangar, who lived at Neotsfield,
Singleton (N.S.W.). The Dangars’ brand
was also D on R and, though the rhyme
shows clearly enough that it was used on
cattle, it was chiefly known on their
Suffolk Punch stud. The point is, who
wrote the verse?
• •
Herewith Maurice Colleano and
Jimmy White, currently getting some of
the best laughs in Harry Wren’s “Good
COLLEANO and WHITE
Old Days” at Sydney Tiv. Colleano,
comedian, acrobat and tiptop all-round
entertainer, is a branch of the tree which
began in Australia as Colleano’s All-star
Circus and eventually reached Madison
Square Garden with Ringling Brothers,
Bamum and Bailey—brother Con
Colleano became one of the greatest high-
wire performers in circus ; nephew Bonar
Colleano, Jnr., is doing well on stage
and screen.
White, also a very talented comedian
and musical-arranger, has been entertain-
ing people for a long time, too, latterly in
places like Cyprus, Palestine and Egypt,
where he was resident comedian at the
Naafi Empire Club for 18 months —he
claims complete neutrality over the Suez
business: “I don’t care who beats Nasser.”
The pair of them, incidentally, are
ambassadors around the world for the
“Love Apple League,” which began when
two children on Guernsey Island sent
some of the island’s primroses to a
children’s hospital; and today extends
throughout the British Commonwealth,
Europe and the U.S. with the purpose of
encouraging friendship and kindness
among children, wherever they are.
• •
The tumult and the shouting dies, the
athletes and the rest depart, and Olympic
Village, at Heidelberg, is empty —but it,
at any rate, is still there, and if there
was any surplus of gold-medals left
around a fair claim to them could be
made by the panel of architects of the
Victorian Housing Commission, working
under chairmanship of H. E. Bartlett, the
team-members being of the A. C. Leith,
Bartlett and Partners firm, and the offices
of the Buchan, Laird and Buchan, Best
Overend, Frank Heath and John
Scarborough. Himself a product of the
Gordon Institute of Technology at
Geelong and of Melbourne University,
Bartlett polished-up in the U.S., working
with Harry T. Lindeberg, specialist in
millionaires’ luxury homes. Then three
years in the U.K., building “key houses”
for Paramount Theatres in England and
on the Continent. The Village isn’t his
only Heidelberg effort: the Town Hall
there is in his long list of suchlike build-
ings throughout Victoria.
Probably the canniest Olympic visitor
to Melbourne was Tasmanian Dr. G. A.
Robbie. With four other Apple Islanders
he sailed his 45ft. launch over from
Hobart and moored it on the Yarra near
Punt-road Bridge, within a stone’s-throw
of most of the Olympic sportsgrounds.
Wife and two children flew oyer Bass
Strait and joined him —the authorities
controlling the river banned its use by
Melbourne citizens, but apparently
relaxed in this case. Dr. Robbie’s
mooring-fee was 20s. His yacht, which
he uses for tuna-fishing, cost £9OOO.
• •
Randolph Stow, whose first novel, A
Haunted Land, is being favorably
reviewed around the country —after some
equally enthusiastic English notices —
looks incredibly young in the photo-
graph on the dustjacket; and is, in fact,
of the advanced age of 21. The
Bulletin has been publishing his
poems for the past couple of years—one
is in the Red Page parade in this issue.
His family were early settlers at Gerald-
ton (W.A.); that’s where his novel is
set, and is where he lives.
• •
A couple of Enzedders muscled into
the Egyptian flare-up. Group-Captain
W. V. Orawford-Compton—he accounted
for 20 enemy aircraft in Hitler’s war, and
won two D.S.O.s and two D.F.C.s —
took-over the captured Egyptian airfield
El Gamil west of Port Said, following
the British and French landings. Fellow-
countryman Flight-Lieut. J. H. Hamil-
ton piloted one of the helicopters that
landed the Royal Marine commandos.
• •
A long association with show-business
in two continents has been ended by the
sudden death in Cairo, at 73, of Thomas
A. Shafto, former Perth businessman
and one-time member of Perth City
Council. In Perth (1904) he built the
Shaftesbury Hotel and the near-by
Shaftesbury Gardens. The gardens were,
at first, partly a place of open-air enter-
tainment, with movies and, later,
vaudeville and drama. In 1918 Shafto
went to Egypt and became top man of
show-business in the Middle East.
During War II he ran 130 cinemas enter-
taining Allied troops.
• •
Alfred Hill —slight, wiry, alert, with a
shock of iron-grey hair —may eventually
wear out, but it’s a monte he’ll never rust
out. With his 86th birthday due next
Sunday (Dec. 16; same day as Beet-
hoven’s), he rises at his Mosman (Sydney)
home at six each day to begin a 12-hour
working-day; he’s busier now, on com-
missioned work, than at any time in his
crowded musical life. He is working on
his seventh symphony, the score of which
he writes by hand without benefit of
glasses. New Zealand-born, he tinkled a
tambourine at four and blew a cornet
with the Wellington Garrison Band at
eight. By 12 he was playing the fiddle in
an orchestra. At 15 he went to Germany
to study composition, the violin and the
piano, gaining experience playing at the
Gewendhaus, Mendelssohn’s famous
stamping-ground. In 1891, when
21, he returned to N.Z. to con-
duct the Wellington Orchestra;
then E. B. Hoban introduced
him to Maori folk-music, and
the floodgates were opened.
First fruit was the cantata
“Hinemoa.” His song “Waiata
Poi” sang its way round the
world and into a dozen
languages. Since then he has
written a barrelful of music
in all forms, including his seven operas
(so far), of which the libretti for two were
from Bulletin writers: “The Rajah of
Shivapore” by David Souter, and “The
Ship of Heaven” by Hugh McCrae. A
week or so back Alfred busted into tele-
vision—a fluent speaker and a good
raconteur.
• •
“C.A.A.”: Having had a pretty good
look round while he was over there,
Dr. M. A. Buntine, head of Geelong, is
convinced that Great Britain has out-
stripped all other European countries in
schools architecture. Dr. Buntine was
seven months on his busman’s-holiday
tour, looking for ideas to incorporate in
a new prep, college. Schools in England,
particularly primaries, he found “far in
advance” of anything he’d seen on the
Continent.
• •
Picturesque? Spectacular? Enthusi-
astic? Some such handle automatically
prefixes itself to Dan A. O’Brien, J.P.,
etc., of Brisbane . . . and elsewhere.
There have been other Dans in history, from
the one in the lions’ den to one or two of our
own; but Dan O’Brien is Dan in his own
right—to thousands. An N.S.W. North Cowster
originally, from the Manning, he’s stood twice
DAN
for Parliament, but his luck was in, and he
stayed out. Very special luck it had to be, too,
since the pennant on his barque has been
Labor, and the State was Queensland. He has,
indeed, been just about everything you can
be in Labor (no biased remarks, please!), and
is still a life-member of the A.W.U. As well,
he can, of course, talk, and knows how to talk:
he won an oration contest —“Australia’s
Destiny,” a wide subject—at Queensland
Eisteddfod; won at the same show the
Shakspeare character-impersonation (“Wolsey
On His [Wolsey’s] Fall”), and won also all the
impromptu speeches from 1927 to 1931, when
perhaps the monotony of it palled, and he
retired on his laurels. He’s president, and has
been for years, of the Queensland Royal
Geographicals, and has lectured all over 'the
State in that line, giving the entire rake-off to
charities. On a world tour for the same society,
he washed his hands in the Thames one morning,
had breakfast in the Strand, morning-tea in
Paris, afternoon-tea in Rome. He gets around.
He’s taken 21 expeditions to the Carnarvon
Ranges, a record that should stand for a while.
• •
New manager of the London office of
the National Bank is George Simpson
Chapman known, of course, as
“Chappie,” particularly in Legacy: vice-
president and chairman of finance of
Sydney Legacy are two positions he’s had
to relinquish because of the move to
London. Actually he is returning to
England after 32 years in Australia —he
came here shortly after World War I
(Royal Navy with 7th Destroyer Flotilla),
tried fanning in Queensland, then joined
CHAPMAN, of the National
the National, rising to N. S. Wales
Assistant State Manager, the job he leaves
to take over the London office. He will
be looking up a lot of relatives and friends
in his native Yorkshire, including a
retired bank-officer who owns an estab-
lishment with the enticing name of The
Golden Lion and the added attraction of
25 miles of trout-stream.
Koos Schuur, whose fine poem “From
Now On I Change” is on this week’s Red
Page, is a gift to this country from
Holland ; he came here five years ago to
give his two sons, now aged 9 and 10, a
start in a country reasonably far from
the turmoil of Europe. Now living at
Harbord, N. S. Wales, he was well estab-
lished as a poet before he emigrated ;
had published four books of verse (two
of which were “Resistance poems”:
literary weapons against the Nazis) and
was the editor of a monthly, “Words,”
which was a centre for modem Dutch
literature and art. After his first year in
Australia he published, in Holland,
The Kookaburra Laughs , a prose book
giving his impressions of life here; and
he has also lately published Fata Morgana
for Dutchmen, a series of poems on
migrants, commissioned by the singularly
enlightened Netherlands Ministry of
Education. Another commission he has
accepted is to translate 10 modem Aus-
tralian poems into Dutch for an anthology
of European and American poetry to be
published about the end of next year.
• •
Dr. L. J. A. Parr (passed on in Sydney
at 59) had been since 1951 Liberal rep.
for Burwood in the N.S.W. Assembly,
quickly getting to a first place there for
his vigorous speeches and the hours of
research that went into them; his
specialities, transport and health. There,
too, he was both one of the best and one
of the most popular members. Two
British Empire medical awards followed
a distinguished career at Sydney Univer-
sity, and for some years he practised in
Macquarie-street, specialising in rheumatic
diseases, on which he was one of Aus-
tralia’s top men. He was honorary
rheumatologist at Royal South Sydney,
Balmain and the Community Hospital at
Moore Park. In War II he was with the
R.A.A.M.C, 2nd Army Tank Battalion
and in the 103rd Australian C.C.S. The
£2BB 19s. Id. retrospective pay he received
from a recent increase in State Parlia-
mentary salaries he handed over to the
Western Suburbs Hospital.
. • •
Into the Silence:
At Kalgoorlie, Professor Edward De Courey
Clarke (76), Professor of Geology at the Uni-
versity of Western Australia from 1930 to
1948. A New Zealander, he was with the
W.A. Geological Survey from 1912 till
appointed Lecturer in Charge at the University
in 1920. Widely known for researches into the
geology of the West, he was a Kelvin
medallist of the Royal Society (1941).
In Perth, at 60, Charles Henry Plunkett, Old
Digger and one of Westralia’s best-known
master-builders. A past-president of the
Building Industry Congress, foundation-
president of the W.A. Builders’ Guild,
Rotarian, and member of Perth City Council.
In Sydney, Dr. Mary Booth, 0.8. E., one of
the first women graduates of Sydney University,
and one of Australia’s first women doctors 9!
medicine. Founder of the Anzac Fellowship
of Women, feminist and patriot—her two fuling
passions, to preserve the Anzac spirit, and the
spirit of Australia’s pioneer women.
In Perth, at 55, George Frederick Edinger, one
of the best-known men in Westralian shipping.
Joining the Australian Shipping Association in
1914, he worked with the Ministry of War
Transport in War 11, and was Westralia’s
representative on the Australian Shipping Board.
In Sydney, at 75, Robert Irvine, who had
been flautist and ’cellist with all major Sydney
orchestras of his day. Flautist with the
Conservatorium Orchestra under Verbruggen,
he toured New Zealand with them in the
’twenties. Foundation-member of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. One son is Bulletin
contributor Eric Irvin.
In Adelaide, Col. W. J. Scott, commander
of Gull Force on Ambon. As a second-
lieutenant in 19th Bn., he was awarded D.S.O.
for conspicuous gallantry in France (Nov.,
1916); also twice mentioned in dispatches. On
Jan. 14, 1942, after various home-commands,
he was appointed C.O. of the 2/21 Infantry
Battalion (Gull Force); later captured by the
Japanese. In civil life he was with Switzerland
General Insurance.
In Sydney, at 80,- Macquarie-street specialist
Dr. Eric Pockley. Graduating from Sydney
Uni., he became resident doctor at Royal Prince
Alfred. Keen traveller and explorer; shot big
game in Africa, travelled up to the headwaters
of the Fly River (New Guinea).
In Brisbane, at 91, Augustus Oxenham,
president and life-member of Toombul cricket-
club. Oxenham Park (Nundah) was named after
him. Father of Test-cricketer and Queensland
XI stalwart Ron Oxenham (who died in Aug.,
1939) and of Lionel Oxenham, who also played
cricket for Queensland.
At East Grinstead (Eng.), Mabel Mclndoe,
mother of two famous sons —Dr. Archie (the
plastic-surgeon) and Dr. Kenneth (manager of
the 25-miles-long Firestone rubber-plantation
in Liberia, West Africa). Sister of composer
Alfred Hill, she was, under her maiden-name
(Mabel Hill), an outstanding landscape-painter.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 63, Justice P. B.
Cooke, six years Supreme Court judge. At 42,
he was the youngest barrister in N.Z. to be
made King’s Counsel. Major and Military
Cross in War I, he was president of the N.Z.
Law Society from 1946 till his Supreme Court
appointment.
In Adelaide, at 83, D. W. Hendrickson,
prominent in S.A. church, musical, charitable
and sporting circles. Foundation-member and
former president of the Property Owners
Association, he owned and managed for a time
the Federal Furnishing Stores at Balaklava
(S.A.). Also foundation-member of the Auto-
mobile Club of S.A., and in younger days
Norwood League-footballer.


THE ANTI-SOCIAL ELEMENT
(jtu., P£A£ , (it. PHOHG
. you fM TH6 MORN/MG AMP T*£U.
*• yPO ALU ABOUT WHAT t CAM£ OV£G*
'TO CHAT TO >t?U ABOUT TONK3HT* '*


ABORIGINALITIES
'TAKING turns at baby-sitting is an old
bovine custom. I don’t know if it’s
common to all breeds —dairy-cows, for
example, would seldom have the oppor-
tunity—but Herefords practise it the
world over. In the early morning, as the
cattle leave their night-camp, the calves,
aged from a few days upward, will leave
their mothers and go off in orderly fashion
with the day’s appointed sitters, usually
two. These feed about with their charges
within easy reach of the camp, while the
rest of the herd scatter and range farther
afield, till full udders remind them of
their responsibilities. They don’t have
a strict roster —some cows may do
frequent turns, others none —but the same
ones seldom “sit” two days running. The
sitters are not always mothers ; dry or
maiden cows also serve. Towards the end
of the season even the bull is co-opted,
and he appears to “sit” in perfect con-
tentment. —'‘Miss M.”
* * * *
“Wester”: Language-difficulties at the
country P.O. counter. “How do you spell
it?” the official asked. “Ho, Heff, Heff,
He, Hen, Pee, Hay, See, Hand, Haitch,”
said the New Australian.
* * * *
“Tabba”: There are more snakes killed
under Queensland’s main roads than on
them. Most of the hundreds of main-
roads bridges consist of wooden decking
laid on beams supported by wooden
trestles. The bitumen is laid over the
decking, and a lot of tar drips through
the gaps on to the beams. One of Joe’s
favorite basking-places on scorching days
is along the top of the beams, and he
often finds himself caught on an oversize
flypaper. Every bridge sports a few
carcasses; under one I counted eight.
“Sevenelms”: Touching on color-
blindness in animals —hardy annual of
nature - scribes —when the Sandakan-
Lamag overland-telegraph was erected
through elephant-country the wire was
strung on white-porcelain insulators, and
the pachyderms industriously kept butting
down the poles to break these. Replace-
ment by green-glass insulators cured the
trouble. I heard a Governor of North
Borneo, who certainly knew his tuskers,
threaten to put his A.D.C. ahead into the
jungle as a decoy during a shoot, because
THE WOLF-CHORUS.
that innocent youth had come along in a
white topee.
* * * *
“Zake”: Joe, the hatter who lived on
the river-bend, was noted around the dis-
trict for the unusual assortment of pets
he kept. He was lying on the broad of
his back shooting pieces of cooked meat
at a big striped-football-guernsey goanna
sitting with its head raised on a near-by
log. The go.’s mouth would open and
shut with lightning speed as it caught and
gulped down the titbits. “Gid up, y’ lazy
cow, gid up!” Joe kept saying, but the
go. just stared stonily ahead. Then Joe
swiped it across the jaw, and barked:
“Gaw on, beat it, y’ useless blank!”
adding in explanation: “Had ’im for six
munce now, and he still can’t sit up an’
beg. Ain’t got no intelligence, that’s
what’s wrong with ’im!”
* * * *
“Fair Mac” : The greatest rough-and-
tumble fighter I’ve ever seen in action
was a swaggie camped under one of the
arches of the brick railway-bridge
between Cabramatta and Liverpool
(N.S.W.) —a popular camping-site with his
fraternity 20-odd years ago. The sounds
of battle reached me before I’d pedalled
close enough to see what was happening,
but as I came abreast of the arch I could
see the scrap. The aggressor was a short,
thickset, greying man with no handicap-
ping notions of Queensberry rules. He
punched, wrestled, booted and jumped on
his limp, unresisting opponent, yet despite
the violence of his efforts still found wind
enough to keep up the most blistering fire
of invective I’ve listened to. Only one
thing detracted from his munificence as
“ Inhabited , eh!”
a scrapper—the sex of his opponent. Not
all swaggies waltzed with their Matildas.
* * * *
“Yorkshire Roller”: In removing the
first googs and substituting marbles
canary-breeders are thinking of the
young birds. The idea is to have the
whole clutch hatch out the same day.
By Nature’s way the first blokes out
have an advantage over the slowcoaches'.
Being older and therefore stronger they
can push the latecomers aside at feeding-
time, so that it’s clearly a case of “Last
out lousy.” Nature doesn’t care, but the
professional breeder does. He wants a
full clutch of healthy youngsters. By
returning the earlier eggs to the nest when
the hen has laid the last one among the
marbles, he gives ’em an equal start, so
that they should all hatch out the same
day.
* * # *
“C.P.G.”: On the rim of Lake Eyre,
where the crust of salt is as white and
dazzling as a snowfield under a cloudless
sky, little mounds of clay-pellets denote
the nests of the small brown harvest-ants.
They live on seeds blown in from the
country around the lake-bed, and go out
to collect them at first light before the
sun has heated the surface. When rain
falls, or floodwaters flow into the lake,
the ants migrate to the shore and make
temporary nests, returning to the lake-
bed when it dries again. Beside most of
the ant-nests lives a tiny white lizard. It
shelters from the sun in the shade of the
little mound of clay, or in a burrow under
a cake of salt. It lives on the ants and
has adapted itself remarkably to life on
the glaring white salt —its upper eyelids
are shaped like sun-visors and the eye-
aperture is a tiny slit.
* * * *
“Uncle Glue”: The Camel Corps of
World War I was something of a cross
between Foreign Legion and Bedouin. We
received our rations and cooked for
ourselves in groups of four. We had no
potatoes; we had Martha —a tough brickie
by trade. With a billy, a few thistles or
twigs to start the fire, and some dry camel-
dung to supply the slow combustion, he
could cook rice. No trouble ; he simply
put rice, water, and salt in billy set over a
slow-burning fire. With, “Now, none of
you roosters lift the lid,” away he would
go and play poker. Martha’s intuition
always brought him back at the right
instant. Not a drop of excess-water left
in billy; every grain puffed-up, mealy,
and separate. Martha, where art thou?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: That ganger in Jack
Lusby’s yarn “The Wall” must have been
as great a dill as his gang thought him if
he stood in pouring rain with a spirit-
level in his hand (B. 14/11 /’56). Nobody
who knows anything about levels will
allow them to even get damp. The spirit-
tubes are set in plaster-of-Paris, and it
takes very little moisture to make dry,
hard plaster soft and soggy. Even patent
screw-adjusting tubes are fixed in their
metal-fittings with plaster. Then, too, the
best of timber will swell when wet, and
shrink again as the moisture evaporates ;
which plays havoc with the accuracy of
a level.
* * * *
“Kelms”: The starling always seems to
be singled out as the lice-carrier (B.
21 /11/’56); yet I know of only one bird
immune to the pests —the white-fronted-
heron or blue-crane; and its immunity
may be due to the great amount of
powder-down it carries between its
feathers. Every other bird I’ve examined
has carried a whole assortment of para-
sites, and some of those that nest in
runnels or hollows are literally lousy,
They couldn’t very well be otherwise,
since in many cases they have no way ot
cleaning their nests, and some don t even
attempt to. Thus the nests attract flies
and insects, and they bring lice. The jworst
birds I know in this regard are the ram-
bow-birds and the nor’-Westralian kooka-
burra. Even the natives jibed at- the
latter ; their name for it, Puka, means
“stinking.”
* * * *
“Bass”: Westralia’s Tree ? Society
is anxious to meet anyone who’s grown
a Christmas-tree from seed and brought
it to the flowering stage. The Christmas-
tree (not to be confused with the
Christmas-bush) grows to about 30ft. and
is one of the show-pieces
of the big State —a belt of
it, every tree a blaze of
rich orange-blooms, is a
picture you’d find hard to
match anywhere in the
world. It would be the
ideal garden-tree but for
one thing—it’s a semi-
parasite, and although the
seeds germinate readily
enough they die unless the
first shoot can attach itself
to the root of another plant
and draw sustenance from
it. The seedling isn’t
choosy and will live for a
time on what it can draw
from grass-roots, but this
source of nourishment can
only carry it for a while
and when the tree is a foot
or so high it and its host
die. The Christmas-tree
has a spongy wood and
suckers freely, so it may
grow from cuttings. Attempts are now
being made to strike it in roots of growing
trees.
* * * *
“Bulltosser”: The stag-throwing tech-
nique we learned in the Gulf country
went something like this: You hopped
off the horse, grabbed the beast’s tail
with one hand, then moved in close and
up along his ribs. As the “mickey”
swung his head to either look or hook
at you, you grabbed his nearest horn with
your outer free hand. Letting go the
tail, you went into a half-crouch whilst
running, then reached under the brisket
and grabbed the opposite-side front-leg
when off the ground. A bump with your
shoulder brought the beast down. You
then leaped over the beast in a flash, and
had its uppermost front-leg a prisoner—
the leg, of course, being doubled-up. With
one of the several tying-down straps you
would be carrying over your shoulder you
took a \ turn around the pastern and
another around the upper “arm,” and
pulled tight. That beast was there until
you chose to let him go. This method was
not recommended for stock over two-
years, as the reach under the brisket was
too long. If no horns, you used ears.
Timing had to be perfect, and it was
better on a trotting beast than one
cantering.
# * * *
A “RED PAGE” reviewer has taken
Cayley to task for grouping his
species in What Bird Is That? according
to habitats. Obviously there are pitfalls
in Cayley’s system, as many birds —
honeyeaters, for instance —may be found
in a variety of situations, but it is doubtful
if a better method can be devised to give
the beginner a general idea of what to
expect.
Cayley receives further rebuke on the
ground that many of his illustrations are
too small. Well, with What Bird Is That ?
in one hand and binoculars in the other
I have successfully identified a host of
tiny fowl. Several of these midgets—the
weebill for one —were little more than 3in.
long. I struck trouble only with the
speckled-warbler, and then not because
of the illustration’s size, but because of
its lack of verisimilitude.
What Bird Is That ? has a tendency to
become outmoded in some respects—the
more so, possibly, because it discusses
and depicts all our birds, and not merely
a selection. Cayley’s species have not all
stayed precisely where he placed them in
space—birds get around. Also several of
those he presented as true species are
now regarded as races only. However,
these matters mostly concern the specia-
list. The book aims to aid the amateur,
and in that succeeds admirably.
The “R.P.” commentator refers to
black-faced cuckoo-shrikes as “big
cuckoos.” Actually, there’s no relation-
ship whatsoever between cuckoo-shrikes
and the well-known family of feathered
tricksters.
T. JASPER.
A STONE BRIDGE BUILT BY
CONVICTS
Bridges are flight caught up in steel and
stone,
Twin-natured beings of a single birth
That range the sky yet never leave the
earth
And speed forever yet are never flown.
And those who step on bridges feel the
strength
Of Mercury rise in them and the glow
Of voyagers who at its launching know
Their journey will have splendor all its
length.
Surely none ever built more sadly well
Than these who felt the whip, the ball
and chain
Upon them, and who stood at last to
stare,
With eyes too weary even to show pain,
At this stone arc firm-buttressed deep in
hell
And leading from that nowhere to
nowhere.
U.S.A.
ERNEST G. MOLL.


A RADIO quizmaster gave as the
“correct” answer to a question that a
new billycan would boil water much
quicker than a blackened one because
the black on the can absorbed the heat
and so slowed-up the boiling-process. He
was right in. that the black absorbs the
heat, and that is exactly the reason why
he was wrong on the answer, as any bush-
man could have told him. —“J.H.S.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Having seen a billygoat
pulling a sulky in North Queensland and
a bullock in a buggy near Wollongong
(N.S.W.) I thought I’d seen everything in
novel transport, until I drove round the
cliff-drive at Katoomba, on the Blue
Mountains, and saw a sulky with two
bicycles lashed to the shafts and two
youths pedalling vigorously while their
girl-friends sat back on the sulky seat.
* * * •
“F.A.M.”: Looking for my specs. I
remembered hearing an old bushman, a
hale-and-hearty 92, talking to his mate:
“The best glasses ever I had,” said he,
“I bought in Sydney for two-and-six.
And not only that. Everyone I lent ’em
to said they was so good they wanted to
buy ’em off me.”
* * * *
“Kelvin”: That seaside milk-oh who
was prepared to let his holiday-customers’
account stand over till next year (B.
17/10/’56) reminds me of an Oriental
gentleman who, on an island outpost of
Australia, ran a fancy-goods store, pearl-
exchange and soft-drink shop as sidelines
to his real business of newsagent. He
“Boy, what a shoot!"
never sent a bill, and those wishing to pay
an account had to call and ask their
indebtedness. Unpaid bills of £4O or £5O
were the rule rather than the exception.
Yet he must have been paid by most of
his debtors, for I never heard of a sum-
mons being issued and, today, he runs a
city jewellery-curio business.
* * * *
“Reims”: , Crows that appear in my
locality are invariably just part of a bi-
yearly movement, amounting to a form
of migration, that occurs along the W.A.
coastal plain at the beginning and end
of summer. They never nest within miles
of my place. So when one flew up at a
cruising hawk I attributed the attack to
just plain cussedness and
barracked for the hawk,
although at that distance 1
couldn’t pick its species.
Found I’d backed a win-
ner. Instead of running,
as it would have done before
the attack of a nesting-bird,
the hawk mixed it, and
before long the crow was
looking for a way out. He
mightn’t have found it if
a cobber hadn’t chanced
along and decided to join in,
but the two of them had
their hands full and took
the first opportunity to
break off the engagement.
Yet I’ve seen the local
hawks run before a flock of
pigeons, and I don’t know of
one that would willingly mix
it with even a lone magpie
—at least, not in the nesting-
season.
* * *
“Sarj”: One of the few
links Australia has with
Spain is the old Spanish
mission of New Norcia
(W.A.) on the Perth-
Geraldton highway. Built much on the
pattern of the Spanish missions of Cali-
fornia, it retains its Spanish flavor to this
day, even to the observation of siesta.
It houses many treasures garnered over
the years, not the least of which is a fine
old clock presented by a Spanish Queen
to her Court Chaplain, who in turn passed
it on to his brother Dom Rosendo
Salvado, founder of New Norcia. The
mission’s library, too, is one of the most
comprehensive private collections in the
Commonwealth, and many old masters,
including Ribera, Murillo and Guido
Reni, are represented in its art-gallery.
The mission still cares for the natives
roundabout and, in the ancient Benedic-
tine tradition, provides a hospice for the
wayfarer.
* * * *
“H.J.W.”: My nipper found a couple
of baby kookaburras and put them in a
wooden box with slabs spaced wide
enough across the front for the old birds
to hear and see their offspring. They
industriously provided a mixed lot of
provender for the youngsters —various
lizards all carefully broken up in short
lengths, sundry small snakes, frogs, one
yabbie and several other sorts of food.
They were all dead —I have often watched
old Jack whacking a lizard or other
wriggler on a limb with his beak ; nothing
living goes down his throat. Finally I
knocked one of the slats off the box and
the young ones were taken away by the
old birds.
COASTAL BANKSIA
The banksias sigh teolian psalms,
Rustle and creak today
Between the catspaws and * the calms
Of a wind that skips its way
Hop-step across the bay,
Twanging the crooked lyres and harps,
Victims to winter s vandal
Antarctic spite that wears and warps
Both stubborn sconce and candle
And honey-brush and handle.
Some banksia-trees have left their bones,
Sun-bleached, beside the way,
But the silver wedding-bush atones
And smothers dumb decay
With many a brave bouquet.
Among the banksias Quiet walks,
Healing and peace attend;
Though the birds talk and the tree talks
And soughing airs ascend
And the waves talk—world without end.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
CRUICKSHANK AND THE CYCLONE
~ „ ...
YJUHEN the cyclone finally did arrive
. most us )Y en f uiore-or-less ready
f° r it- I had shifted the guinea-pigs m
from the front-lawn to the laundry, and
had given Jones a hand to coil his hose
and pile a couple of dozen loose bricks
against his back-door.
All the other fellows were showing
similar signs of being interested, and even
Mrs. O’Dowd had little trouble in getting
O’Dowd home from the Running Dog to
bring in the washing from the line,
Cruickshank, of course, was caught
unprepared. I can’t remember when he
has really been ready for anything, let
alone a cyclone. Only last month, when
the Roads Board came round to spray
for Argentine-ants, after giving six-weeks’
notice to everybody, Cruickshank was
the only one who had not taken the
required precautions. As all his windows
had been left open, the result was that 14
gallons of ant-fluid were sprayed into his
kitchen all over his gas-stove, which
promptly blew-up.
It wasn’t as though he hadn’t plenty of
warning this time, either. The wind had
been blowing hard from the north for
two days, causing the river to back-up
against my new boatshed, so that it
poured in through the window, and filled
my skiff with defunct jellyfish.
The sky was covered with low, scummy
cloud, and the dust had been coming
down the chimneys like anything. The
papers were full of the southward pro-
gress of the cyclone, and the radio had
been broadcasting hourly storm-warnings.
Nobody could claim that he hadn’t
been told, and in plenty of time, too.
Nobody, that is, but Cruickshank. He
said that we never got cyclones this far
south, and that it was only a hangover
from the atom-bomb. So he just went
on with his new dry well, and refused to
participate in the panic.
AS a matter of fact, he was actually in
the well when the first blow arrived,
and so missed the full force of the gust.
Had it not been for Muldoon’s cow, I
doubt if he would ever have known that
there was a cyclone on the premises at
all, for the dry well, being intended to
drain-off the swampy part of his block,
was already Bft. deep, and Cruickshank
was right at the bottom of it, and still
digging away as though he intended to
come out in China.
Muldoon’s cow had wandered in off
the street, and paused to peer interestedly
down into the hole.
She was standing there, her eyes
bulging out, and the moisture from her
nose dripping slowly down on to Cruick-
shank’s hat, when, with a shriek, the first
blast of the gale, moving in at about 90
miles an hour, took her fairly in the stern.
In a second, the hole, which had been
quite roomy and commodious for one,
was crammed full of Cruickshank and the
cow, while the wind did its best to fill
them both in with rubbish and garden
trash.
Cruickshank said afterwards that he
was not so much astonished as outraged.
The descending cow flattened him
against one end of the well, so that his
face was pushed hard into the soil. After
a struggle, he was able to free himself,
and his rage at discovering the nature of
the intrusion was almost too much for his
circulatory system. There wasn’t even
room enough for him to kick her.
Still unaware of what went on aloft,
he climbed up on the cow, and emerged
into the open, to be met by the full force
of the wind, and immediately blown back
into the hole. The cow did not even
move over to make room for him.
ONE could almost end the story there,
for Cruickshank saw the cyclone out
in his dry well. But it wasn’t quite as
simple as that. Things happened from
time to time —awful, incredible things
—which Cruickshank claims have left
indelible scars upon his memory, so that
he will never again be quite the same.
The hours passed slowly, conversation
was impossible, and, if Cruickshank is to
be believed, Reason tottered frequently
upon her throne.
The cyclone 'was a good, full-bodied
cyclone, which established itself with
ease, and moved on with reluctance,
creating incidents of interest, each
sufficient in itself to prevent Cruickshank
from feeling that Time was dragging.
THE first one to attempt a return to
the status quo was Cruickshank.
Being now aware of the surrounding con-
ditions, he made his move with caution,
and holding on to the cow’s tail by way
of an anchor, he elevated himself upon
her back, and warily protruded the top
half of his body above the surface.
The moment, unfortunately, was not
propitious. Next door, Jones’s fowlhouse
had been blown over, and an inquisitive
cockerel walked out to see what all the
row was about. As it came round the
corner of Jones’s woodshed, the gale took
it. It left the ground at a speed equal to
the muzzle-velocity of a 16in. gun, went
flickering over the fence with an indignant
squawk, and took Cruickshank fairly
between the eyes as he rose.
In one second he was home again, and
the inhabitant contents of the well had
risen to three.
Muldoon’s cow was the next to make a
move. It had been clear to Cruickshank
for some time that she was not happy,
and he was not altogether surprised when
she decided to make a break. Her
methods were more direct than his, and
involved a lot of movement.
Cruickshank and the cockerel made no
attempt to dissuade her, but, however
they tried to dissociate themselves from
her efforts, they became involuntarily
concerned.
Her first trial was almost successful;
she had two-thirds of her carcass out of
the well when the side caved-in, and back
she came.
Cruickshank saved himself by an
upward leap, but the cockerel was not
quite quick enough, and lost most of its
tail-feathers.
On her second attempt, she had hardly
got her head over the edge when the
dustbin, bowling along the ground at a
smart 80 miles per hour, struck her
between the horns with a metallic clang,
and remained firmly impaled, so that she
ceased to take any further interest in
escape movements, and remained still,
moody and distrait.
THEN there was the moment when the
tankstand collapsed, and the tank,
fufl to the brim, came rolling slowly and
thunderously across the lawn, until it
fetched-up against the heap of soil which
Cruickshank had thrown out from the
well, thereafter discharging its contents
into the hole with complete accuracy and
diabolic ingenuity.
Altogether, by the time the cyclone
blew itself out Cruickshank had seen
about as much of wildlife as he needed
for the next 20 years or so. When the
wind finally dropped to a mere 60 miles
per hour, he managed to claw his way
out, and took temporary shelter in the
toolshed.
Muldoon’s cow followed his example
a little later, and joined him in his refuge.
Being a little broad for the doorway, how-
ever, she brought most of the front of the
flimsy edifice in with her, so that con-
ditions again became crowded, and
Cruickshank was not really comfortable
until he was able, with the help of the
scythe, to persuade her to move. She
blundered up the path, and took shelter
on the front-veranda.
I don’t know, however, that Cruick-
shank has really learnt his lesson, even
now. He has refused to fill-in the well,
saying that the warm weather will soon
dry it out. Four nights ago the milkman
fell into it. Cruickshank has had a letter
from his solicitors.
JOHB DUNPHY.


win
Death Duties
{Take the "Lions' Share'*
of your Estate 2
This is a problem which often confronts testators
with large estates. Expert advice can prove
invaluable.
Why not now examine and explore the possibilities
of planning your affairs to the advantage eventually
of your dependents?
The Company’s 70 years of specialised experience—
as Executors, Trustees, Agents and Attorneys—is at
your service
Call or write for the Booklet “Important Facts
concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
.(Incorporated in Victoria! Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay ; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann, Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman)*
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon*
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT22
Business. Rollery. Etc.
The Cost of Suez
nrHE blockage of the Suez
Canal by Egyptian sinkings
of blockships has given Europe
and Australia a preview of what
could happen at a more critical
international period if the canal
were then under hostile control.
But even at this period the
effect is critical enough. The
supply of oil to Europe has been
cut by around 25 p.c. until
alternative sources can be
established. The drain on dollar
reserves will be increased, but
perhaps not quite in proportion
to the loss of M.E. oil. In any
case, because of higher produc-
tion costs arising from oil-
scarcity (an increased U.K.
Customs-duty of a shilling a
gallon on petrol and a lift of
sd. a gallon in the retail price
has brought a total-lift of Is. sd.
a gallon —to 6s. Id. sterling),
disruption of some production
because of inadequate fuel, and
other similar factors, the U.K.
is seeking dollar aid from the
International Monetary Fund
and other sources, and will ask
to be relieved from meeting the
next interest-bill on loans from
the U.S. and Canada,
So far as external trade is con-
cerned, the rest of Europe
should be in much the same
plight as Britain, and that may
ease the impact of Suez on
Britain’s. trade within soft-
currency areas.
But for some time to come
other economic repercussions
will be felt, and they will extend
to Australia.
Rutile and Shares
C'HARES in rutile cos. went
through a shaking last
Thursday following an analysis
of titanium-metal statistics from
Canberra.
Rutile consumption in the
United States cannot be
expected to exceed 75,000 tons
by the end of 1957, in the
opinion of the Bureau of Mineral
Resources, Canberra. And this
presupposes that ilmenite and
ilmenite-rich slag will not be
used for titanium production.
The same body, expresses the
view that while rutile will
continue to be used to provide
the bulk of the metal for the next
two or!three years at least, the
ultimate relative position of
ilmenite and rutile as the basis of
metal-production has yet to be
determined. But if certain meta-
morphic schists and gneisses
prove to be an alternative source
of rutile, and known reserves of
that mineral increase correspond-
ingly, it may be that rutile will
continue to be the preferred
source of titanium, depending
on price and costs of treatment.
(Limited known resources of
rutile at present discourage
heavy investment in plant.)
The Bureau sets the United
Kingdom’s immediate maximum
requirements of rutile at 12,500
tons a year, and that world
requirements over the next two
or three years may rise to 120,000
tons annually, “of which not
more than 85,000 tons to 95,000
tons would be required from
Australia.”
Australian production for
1956 will be in the vicinity of
80,000 tons, and the rate of
output at present is well in excess
of ' that figure, with more
producers coming in each month.
Installed plant-capacity is now
sufficient to cope with demand,
and latecomers with no long-
term contracts may have to
scratch hard for a living if
estimates of sand values are not
realised. There has been a
“Give us a couple more months — l've got to finish
my symphony."
weakening in spot prices for
rutile recently, which are now
around £llO (Aust.) a ton.
A check to Stock Exchange
speculation in rutile shares was
bound to come, and it is as well
that it should happen before too
many mining-flotations become
overloaded with vendors’ con-
siderations and plant costs. >
The TV Industry
WIT H three transmitting-
stations already operating
in N.S.W. and three in Victoria,
the six stations planned for the
eastern seaboard should be in
operation on full power next
year, and the demand for TV-
receivers is increasing.
There are 23 manufacturers
making TV-receivers ’ in Aus-
tralia. Of these, 17 are well-
established makers of radio-
receivers and four others are
well established in some other
branch of the electronics
industry. Manufacture is con-
centrated in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, with two plants in
Adelaide.
By the end of 1957, according
to a survey made by the Depart-
ment of Trade, five manu-
facturers plan volume-production
of television picture-tubes, and
should have installed capacity
by that time to meet all Aus-
tralian requirements. But to
begin with a “substantial
number” of picture-tubes have
been imported. Excluding the
picture - tube, the imported
content of receivers at present
varies from a few shillings to
more than £2O; imported content
is expected to fall to a very low
figure during 1957.
Output of receivers for 1956
is expected to reach more than
40,000 sets. Capacity for produc-
tion in 1957 is planned by the
industry at something in excess
of 300,000 sets, and a demand
for over 200,000 sets a year is
counted on.
Sales at the level of 200,000
sets a year would involve a turn-,
over of more than £4O million
retail. (Electrical goods and
radios were bought in 1955 to
the tune of about £llO million,
with sales by the motor industry
in excess of £6OO million.) The
average price of a television-set
ranges from £205 retail to £290
on nearly 50 different models.
Prices include sales-tax at 25 p.c.
At present less than 20 p.c. of
sales are on hire-purchase. This
proportion is expected to rise
to about 50 p.c. in 1957.
Receivers are available in three
screen sizes —17 in., 21in. and
24in., with the 17in. screen
accounting for about three-
quarters of all production. Next
year sales of 17in. screens are
expected to drop to about two-
thirds, with the 21in. screen
taking up the slack.
Oil Search Report
[By li. Owen]
TF an illustration of the saying
that good wine needs no bush
is required by oil-seekers, it can
be found in the report by Oil
Ltd., covering this year’s
activities in Papua by its operat-
ing partners, Australasian
Petroleum Co. Pty., Ltd., and
Island Exploration Co. Pty., Ltd.
—a group which stands almost
alone in this part of the world
by virtue of its reluctance to
supply “blurb” material for
diffusion in the Sunday papers.
The report reiterates the 1956
programme, as forecast in the
1955 report, and shows how far
that programme has been imple-
mented. At the end of 1955 it
was proposed, firstly, to drill
deep tests on three structures at
Kuru, Barikewa and Morehead
respectively, where camp- and
road-construction was then in
progress. Secondly, the detailing
of structural features, by
geological and geophysical
methods, was to be continued in
the search for additional sites.
The report describes how this
programme has been carried out
and with what results.
IT is unnecessary to repeat
much of this information as it has
already appeared, and been com-
mented upon, in The Bulletin ;
but the following quotation
throws some new light on what
appeared, at the time, to be a
rather hurried penetration of the
gas-zone in the Kuru No. 2
well:
Kuru No. 2, the replacement-hole
encountered gras in the same
geological horizon and under the
same pressure conditions as in No. 1,
but on further deepening the gas
was found to be underlain by water
.... By November 4, 1956, the hole
had reached a depth of 5246 ft.
Present intention is to continue the
hole, if necessary and if warranted
by stratigraphic and structural con-
ditions encountered in the course
of drilUng, to below 10,000 ft. in
search of an oil-accumulation.
Few people, conversant with
oil-finding, will disagree with the
decision to continue the drilling
of Kuru No. 2 well to the
deepest horizon which the
National 100 rig is capable of
reaching. Personally, it is my
belief that the discovery of a
very considerable “pool” of wet
gas, at high pressure and under-
lain by water without an inter-
vening zone of oil, indicates "the
possible existence of an effective
cover-bed at depth. Such a bed
—particularly in the early stages
of consolidation —may have
allowed some of the gas to
migrate while trapping the oil.
Even if the gas has migrated
laterally as well as vertically, its
discovery at Kuru fully justifies
the testing of neighboring struc-
tures even if Kuru 2 doesn’t
produce commercially valuable
results at depth.
In my opinion, the report
underestimates the significance
of the Kuru gas when it says:
The discovery of a considerable
accumulation of hydrocarbon gas,
including a proportion of higher
homologues, must be regarded as
some encouragement as to the final
outcome of the venture, but too much
significance should not be attached to
this discovery since, as yet, it has not
provided a lead to the occurrence of
liquid petroleum products.
Modest, also, is the description
of the struggle, through 140 days
and nights, to bring the Kuru
No. 1 well gas-flow under con-
trol and to salvage the National
100 rig, which might easily have
been irretrievably lost had
cratering occurred. None will
question the truth of the state-
ment that great credit is due to
the personnel “on site” for the
part they played in these
operations under very difficult
and dangerous conditions.
No reference is made to the
courageous and geologically
sane withdrawal from the Aure
Trough—presumably since this
took place in 1955 after
sufficient data had been
accumulated to outline the
stratigraphy and geological his-
tory of that structure at depth.
The results of the trek westward,
however, although not yet con-
clusive, have fully justified that
decision.
An interesting departure from
previous practice is the use of
Sikorsky 58 helicopters for the
transport of rigs, material and
personnel to drilling-locations
since “the building of aero-
dromes for conventional planes
(in the country in which the com-
panies are operating) is as
difficult as road-building.”
During 1957 a staff numbering
around 650, with a labor force
of up to 4000 natives, will be
employed, and the expenditure
will be of the order of £4\
million. Oil Search, Ltd., and
its partners will richly deserve
any success which may come
their way. Here’s hoping!
The Canning Basin
[From H. G. Rag gat t, secretary, De-
partment of National Development.]
IN reply to L. Owen in “More
Haste . . .” (B. 21/11/’56), I
would like to make the following
information available to readers.
Mr. Owen does not indicate
the source of his information
about geological mapping being
carried out by the Bureau of
Mineral Resources in the
Canning Basin, but it appears
from the figures he uses that the
source was newspaper articles.
In a press-release of
November 2 the Minister for
National Development referred
to the completion of a third
geological expedition to the
Canning Basin. The statement
by the Minister indicated that
these surveys are part of the
Bureau’s systematic geological
and geophysical data on which
oil companies may base their
more detailed search.
Mr. Owen has misinterpreted
the information about this recent
survey in the following respects:
(1) The area of 200,000 square miles
that he quoted is the total area
of the Canning Basin. The 1956
survey was, as stated by the
Minister, the third Bureau ex-
pedition into it and covered only
30,000 square miles. A .fourth
expedition will be made in 1957.
(2) The 10,000 road-miles quoted by
Mr. Owen was the total distance
travelled from Perth to the
Basin, the trips in the Basin
and the return to Perth. The
actual distance travelled on geo-
logical surveys was only about
1150 miles.
It will be seen from the above
that the basic figures on which
Mr. Owen based his calculations
as to the rate of geological
survey are entirely incorrect and
grossly overstated.
The 1150 miles travelled while
making geological traverses does
not, of course, represent a con-
tinuous length of rock-outcrop.
In fact, outcrops are not plenti-
ful in the Basin, the surface of
which is occupied largely by
sand-dunes. By careful study of
aerial photographs, the party
was able to select a route which,
(Continued on page 17)


JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost oi
residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum,
payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
OR
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £l2O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient
to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the
requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later
than the 7th January, 1957, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury
Agricultural College and not later than the 4th February, 1957, in the case ot
those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars may be
obtained from :■
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PROGRESS IN DEVELOPMENT
At the ordinary general meeting of the proprietors of the Bank of New South Wales held
in Sydney on November 30, the President, Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., said that Australia and New Zealand have experienced another year of general
prosperity and high rate of business activity. Both countries have made great progress in
the vital task of developing their resources and positive achievements have been remarkable
and rapid. It is perhaps inevitable that a degree of inflation will accompany economic
development, but to allow it to be magnified through the structure of costs will reduce
ability to compete abroad and will dry up the drive and energy upon which future
achievements depend.
Balance Sheet
The consolidated balance
sheet of the Bank of New
South Wales and its subsidi-
ary, the Bank of New South
Wales Savings Bank Limited,
now published for the first
time, shows a grand total of
£554,000,000.
In the parent Bank’s
balance sheet economic con-
ditions of the past twelve
months are reflected in the
fall in deposits and advances,
but the business of the Bank
has been well maintained.
Deposits fell by £13,000,000
to £443,000,000, while ad-
vances fell by £16,000,000 to
£258,000,000 as a result of a
lower liquidity for most of
the year and compliance with
central bank lending policy.
However, within that policy
the Bank has continued to
meet the major part of the
essential needs of its cus-
tomers and increased housing
loans by more than £4,000,000.
Liquid and near liquid
assets rose by £8,000,000 to
£207,000,000 on September
30. The issued capital of the
Bank was increased to
£17,560,000 by the new share
issue of one for each three
shares held on March 9,1956.
Net consolidated profits
for the year were £1,817,000,
the trading bank profit rising
by £86,000 to £1,780,000 and
the Savings Bank showing a
modest net profit of £37,000.
The transfer of £652,500 from
Profit and Loss Account
brings the Reserve Fund to
£12,000,000.
Bank of New South Wales
Savings Bank Limited
On January 19, 1956, the
Bank of New South Wales
Savings Bank Limited opened
for business at all of the
parent Bank’s branches in
New South Wales, Victoria,
Western Australia, Australian
Capital Territory, Northern
Territory, Papua and New
Guinea. On January 20 busi-
ness was commenced in
Queensland, on May 17 in
London, and on August 13 in
Fiji. Up to now the New Zea-
land Government has not
permitted us to operate in
that Dominion.
Public support has been
most gratifying. Deposits
aggregate £41,000,000 spread
over more than 200,000
accounts, after less than nine
months’ operations.
Branches and Agencies
On September 30 the Bank
had a total of 737 branches
and 237 agencies. The Savings
Bank was being carried on at
822 branches and agencies,
and in addition it was oper-
ating 422 private agencies.
Business Review
Continued expansion has
intensified many of the
strains which were evident in
Australia a year ago. Restric-
tive measures have had some
effect in lessening the exces-
sive pressure of the boom,
although in some directions
the tighter conditions have
threatened to give a rise to a
measure of unemployment
rather than to a reduction in
costs. Indeed, evidence of in-
creasing costs, wages, and
prices is still accumulating.
These symptoms of inflation
when the volume of activity
has steadied cloud the future
prospect.
Unfortunately the Austra-
lian Governments seem deter-
mined to maintain or even
extend the scale of govern-
ment activity, and the whole
weight of restraint is thrust
upon private business. It is
obvious that the excessive
rate of consumption is largely
dependent on the size of in-
vestment programmes, and
even a token curtailment of
government spending would
help to bring about readier
co-operation from the busi-
ness community in curbing
the pressure of demand.
-The only real answer to-the
development problem is an
expansion of exports and in-
creased capital inflow. This
requires stability of costs for
Australian industry and effec-
tive measures to deal with
inflation.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5642A
holiday motoring
costs less on
k
ha
•P>
the
i-bonus
BENZOL
blends
SUPER
SUPER
MSTANDARD
The BENZOL In BP
SUPER and C.O.R gives
these fine motor spirits
the multi-bonus advan-
tages of
1. BETTER STARTING
2. BETTER
PERFORMANCE
3. BETTER MILEAGE
—all of which add up to
4. MAXIMUM MOTOR-
ING ECONOMY
Enjoy a further bonus with ENERGOL—the oiliest oil
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
>B>M^<i^M^rheJßntishJPetroleutni> Comgany^^mited
> an associate of
7/C446P
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
THE gravest potential weak-
ness of the Maoriland
economy lies in its heavy depend-
ance on the United Kingdom
market for meat and dairy-
produce, which together provide
considerably more than half of
the Dominion’s export income.
Any material increase in the
amount of produce reaching the
British market or any fall in
British purchasing-power is
automatically reflected in lower
prices and a Consequent decline
in N.Z.’s income.
That was emphasised this
season by the effects of increased
Argentine meat exports to
Britain and of American dump-
ing of surplus dairy-produce in
Europe, which released greater
supplies to Britain.
Now a conference on the part
which agriculture is to play in
Britain’s economic future has
been told by a leading farmer
that development of home meat-
production could enable Britain
to cut her beef imports by 50
per cent, and her lamb and
mutton imports by 20 per cent,
within 10 years.
Whether or not that is true, it
is clear that Maoriland should
spare no effort now to foster
markets in countries other than
Britain. To the extent that such
markets are developed N.Z.
gains some valuable insurance
against economic depression.
A recent suggestion by the
chairman of the Dairy Products
Marketing Commission, W.
Marshall, that responsibility for
all economic policy matters
affecting export trade should be
centralised in a single depart-
ment under a senior Minister of
the Crown has much to
commend it.
“New Zealand is the greatest
exporter per capita of any
country in the world,” Marshall
said. “The problems of our
export trade go to the heart of
our economy. It is unlikely that
they can be handled satisfactorily
except on a national basis.”
Mr, Marshall said that the
United Kingdom, though still
overwhelmingly N.Z.’s biggest
customer for butter, could not
any longer take continuously
expanding exports at satisfactory
prices. The need to sell more
butter in other markets was
imperative.
Latest export figures show
that some progress, small but
encouraging, is being made.
In the 1955-56 season Maori-
land sold 23,000 tons of butter
and 4300 tons of cheese to
markets other than the United
Kingdom. In the years
immediately before the war such
markets took only about 3000
tons of butter and negligible
quantities of cheese annually.
The increased volume of
butter sales last season was
achieved in spite of the fact that
Russia, which in 1954-55 was
N.Z.’s biggest customer outside
the U.K., bought no butter at all.
Czechoslovakia was the largest
buyer, followed by Germany,
Finland, France and Switzerland.
Industry-leaders have pointed-
out, however, that the European
market is subject to wide fluctua-
tions. A good production season
there, or changes in the purchas-
ing policy of Governments, could
affect N.Z.’s sales materially.
In the last year some eastern
European countries have shown
a disinclination to buy N.Z.
butter because of a considerable
unbalance in their trade with the
Dominion. Consideration may
have to be given to the possibility
of developing a higher level of
two-way trade with these
countries.
South Asia appears the logical
area in which to look for new
markets. Dairy-produce is easily
the largest component of N.Z.’s
trade in this area, but its total
volume is small and improve-
ment is unlikely till more
frequent and regular shipping-
services are available.
In the export meat industry
the last season’s results have
been encouraging. Statistics
prepared by the N.Z. Meat Pro-
ducers’ Board show a substantial
increase in the weight and per-
centage of meat going to markets
outside Britain.
Overseas Borrowing
The forecast made in this
column a month or two ago that
Maoriland would soon be seek-
ing to borrow more overseas,
possibly in the United States,
gained some confirmation from
the Minister of Finance, Mr.
Watts, when he returned from
his mission abroad.
He said he had made prelimin-
ary arrangements for N.Z. to
borrow in London again next
year “should that be decided
on,” and had discussed in New
York the possibility of borrow-
ing there at some suitable time.
He added that N.Z. was not
well known as a borrower in the
United States and a good deal of
preliminary educational work
would be necessary. Interest-
rates in both Britain and the
United States had risen and
demand for loans was heavy.
That raises again the question
of Maoriland’s joining the Inter-
national Monetary Fund and the
World Bank, probably the most
likely source of any substantial
overseas finance.
Tobacco Takeover
A BRISK battle for control of
the National Tobacco Co.,
Ltd., Napier, is going on between
Rothmans (N.Z.), Ltd., and God-
frey Phillips, Ltd. National
Tobacco directors are on the
side of Rothmans, whose offer,
they state, is much to be pre-
ferred.
Rothmans has made alter-
native proposals. Essential
features of the first are: That
Rothmans “put £lOO,OOO in cash
into the assets of National
Tobacco” and make equipment
and staff available for the pro-
duction of cigarettes under its
brands; that 60 per cent, of the
present ordinary shares be con-
verted on a three-for-two basis
to 5 per cent, cumulative pref.
shares, participatiing with the
ords. to 6i per cent.; that the
remaining 40 per cent, of exist-
ing ord. shares be retained by
present shareholders.
The letter in which National
Tobacco directors tell share-
holders about the proposals
leaves several questions
unanswered.
The directors do say that the
40 per cent, of current ordinary
shares to be retained by present
shareholders would give them
“almost equal voting rights with
Rothmans in the control of the
company, and would entitle them
to a commensurate share of any
increase in the value of the assets
of the company caused by the
injection of Rothmans’ cigarette-
manufacturing business.”
As an alternative, Rothmans
has offered to buy all the com-
pany’s shares for 30s. cash, plus
last year’s 5 per cent, dividend
(Is.), subject to 75 per cent,
shareholding approval and the
sanction of the Supreme Court.
Gbdfrey Phillips has met this
by raising its direct bid to share-
holders from 30s. to 30s. plus
the last year’s dividend, payable
in cash immediately on accep-
tance by a percentage of the
shareholding not yet specified
but, it is understood, substan-
tially reduced from the 76 per
cent, originally stipulated. The
offer will remain open till after
National Tobacco’s annual meet-
ing on December 13.
Meantime, National Tobacco
has come to light with a net
profit for the year to October
last almost doubled at £17,063.


The WILDCAT
COUMN
F. J. Walker, Ltd.
A LTHOUGH unfavorable weather,
lower wool prices and a depressed
U.K. meat-market affected last term’s
earnings, F. J. Walker, Ltd., had no
difficulty in maintaining the 15 p.c. div.-
rate established in 1954.
Since 1951, when the co. offered
450,000 10s. ords. to the public, dividends
have averaged 12| p.c., while the share-
holders’ lot has been further improved in
the current term, bonus scrip to a face-
value of £332,400 being handed-out
(three-for-ten) following revaluation of
the main freeholds. Earnings have fallen
by £82,916 since the £321,464 peak in
1954, but last term’s showing was suffi-
cient to cover a continued 15 p.c. div.
(with £22,548 to spare) on the bonus-
increased capital.
Carrying-on a business established in
1910, F. J. Walker, Ltd., has, over the
years, accumulated a large family of
subsidiaries, which, like the parent
co., are connected with the wholesale,
retail and export meat trade. Livestock
is slaughtered at Auburn and Aberdeen
(N.S.W.) for the local and export trade,
sheepskins treated by a fellmongering and
woolscouring subsidiary at Botany
(N.S.W.), while other subsidiaries are
engaged in the production of smallgoods,
casings, tinned-meats and butter, the
operation of freezing-works and the pro-
vision of cold-storage facilities. The
retail-butchery businesses of Noel
McGavin and Co. Pty. and N. R.
McGavin, both in the Newcastle district,
were absorbed during the year.
During the term a fire seriously
damaged portion of the Waterside Cold
Stores, owned by a subsidiary, but the
co. was amply protected by fire and loss-
of-profits insurance.
All 11 subsidiaries traded profitably
during the year, turnover improving by
£653,000 to £8,477,000. Profit-margins,
already hit by higher costs, were further
reduced, floods affecting the delivery and
condition of sheep and cattle. Lower
wool prices limited income from that
quarter, while sales of beef in the over-
supplied U.K. market were fewer and less
profitable.
After setting aside £164,773 (up £14,473)
for taxation and £47,570 (up £1126) for
depreciation, the group profit fell by
£37,358 to £238,548:
F. J. Walker, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit.f Dividend. serves, serves.*
1951.. 169,402 9 p.c. = 90,000 79,402 303,898
1952.. 184,997 10 „ „ 100,000 84,997 388,895
Written off intangibles, etc., £6049 .. 382,846
1953.. 317,740 121p.c.= 125,000 192,740 575,586
Tax overprovided, £74,076 .. .. 649,662
Pre-acquisition profits, written-off, etc.,
£16,510 633,152
1954.. 321,464 15 p.c.= 165,000 156,464 789,616
Goodwill written-off, £2953 .. .. 7.86,663
Unexplained addition, £1560 .. 788,223
1955.. 275,906 15 p.c. = 165,000 110,906 899,129
Profit sale freehold, £100,484 .. .. 999,613
Revaluation fixed assets, £294,346 .. 1,293,959
Unexplained addition, £2427 .. .. 1,296,386
Intangibles written-off, £155,798 .. 1,140,588
1956.. 238,548 15 p.c. = 166,200 72,348 1,212,936
* Subject to intangibles, written-off 30/6/’56.
Earnings equalled a return of 21.5 p.c.
on paid capital, compared with 25 p.c. and
29.2 p.c. in the two preceding years.
Reserves jumped by £313,807, revaluation
and profit on sale of freehold providing
£394,830.
The balance-sheet disclosed a comfort-
able financial position, reserves (before
the bonus-issue) exceeding paid capital by
£104,936:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £1,100,000 £1,100,000 £1,108,000
Reserves .. .. 789,616 899,129 1,212,936
Outside interests.. 4,769 4,578 6,987
Tax provision .. 180,300 151,172 166,816
Creditors .. .. 243,546 243,205 262,865
Final dividend .. 96,250 96,250 96,950
£2,414,481 £2,494,334 £2,854,554
Freehold and lease-
holds . . .. 826,845 817,964 1,118,146
Plant, machinery,
etc 500,163 520,051 540,914
Stock ... .. 262,050 246,947 291,983
Debtors . . .. 288,846 301,403 365,754
Cash and invest-
ments . . .. 387,548 452,171 537,757
Intangibles .. 149,029 155,798
£2,414,481 £2,494,334 £2,854,554
Revaluation was only partly responsible
for the £321,045 increase in fixed assets,
modern plant having been installed in an
“endeavor to arrest the increasing work-
ing costs” caused by higher freights,
wages, etc. Stocks (up £45,036) and
debtors (up £64,351) increased at a greater
rate than turnover, but the growth in
creditors (up £19,660) was a little slower.
The rather large lump of cash and bonds,
etc., increased by £85,586 to £537,757 or
18.8 p.c. of total assets.
Net tangible assets (group) at June 30
last provided a little over 16s. Id. cover
for each f.-p. 10s. ord., including the
bonus-issue. At 225. 6d. the scrip would
return 6.6 p.c. from a 15 p.c. div.
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
JVO doubt had the supporters of late-
closing carried the polls in Victoria’s
hotel-hours referendum earlier in the year
this big Melbourne brewer would have
been in a position to present an even better
set of accounts than it has done.
As it was, sales of beer during the
twelve months to June 30 last were the
biggest ever made by the co., though,
because of the steeper excise-duties,
whose effects were felt over the last
quarter of the year, it is unlikely that the
figures will be equalled in the current
term.
Actual turnover was £35.4-million, of
which £22.9-million was handed on to the
Federal Government in duties and, of the
rest, after meeting all costs of production,
etc., £1,320,440 (up £360,238) was
available for distribution among share-
holders :
0.U.8. and Subsidiaries.!
t Dividends ,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9f p.c. 9§ p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 467,110 28,125 337,500 101,485 6,266,105
Profit sale assets, £3683 .. ..6,269,788
Net tax arrears, £3339 .. .. 6,266,449
Add reserve adjustments, £29,345 .. 6,295,794
6J p.c. 6i p.c.
1952.. 450,762 21,000 346,875 82,887 6,378,681
Excess tax provision, £2861 .. .. 6,381,542
Profit sale assets, £3417 .. .. 6,384,959
Add reserve adjustment, £1273 .. 6,386,232
1953.. 509,093 21,000 346,875 141,218 6,527,450
Excess tax provision, £6092 6,533,542
Profit sale assets, £6959 .. .. 6,540,501
Add reserve adjustment, £1513 .. 6,642,014
9£ p.c. 0i p.c.
1954.. 903,618 24,000 440,000 1 . aQ , „„
Arrears div. paid, £83,250 ) 352 > 368 6.894,382
Add reserve adjustment, £6115 .. 6,900,497
9 p.c. 9 p.c.
1955.. 960,202 27,000 499,500 433,702 7,334,199
Profit sale assets, £52,544 .. .. 7,386,743
Less reserve adjustments, £1984 .. 7,384,769
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1956.1,320,440 30,000 749,980 640,460 7,925,219
* After deducting intangibles, £905,447 ai 30/6/’56.
f Excludes outside interests in subsidiaries.
Depreciation provision (up £61,883) took
£615,708, and taxation, disclosed for the
first time, £1,070,743. As a percentage on
average capital (pref., ord. and “Z”
shares combined) the £1,320,440 was equal
to 16.9 p.c., compared with 16.4 p.c.,
15.4 p.c., 8.7 p.c., 7.7 p.c. and 8 p.c.
back to 1951. A 10 p.c. div. (raised from
9 p.c.) was distributed all round.
Since it was only in 1951 that the co.
passed out 2,925,000 bonus £1 Z shares,
one-for-one, to pref. and ord. shareholders
alike, it has been a very satisfying per-
formance. Another £1,949,800 of non-
voting Z capital has been raised since then
for cash from among shareholders
(mainly the five holding-cos. through
which the public is interested in C.U.8.)
to finance a programme of additions to,
and modernisation of, brewery plant
and hotel-properties. In the brewery
most of the emphasis has been on the
bottling section and the co. is now claimed
to be the biggest bottler of the stuff in
Australia.
At present the group produces about
90 p.c. of all beer brewed in the State,
total production-figures for which have
moved like this:
Victorian Beer Production^
Gallons. Gallons.
1951 .. 50,669,305 I 1954 .. 63,152,084
1952. .. 54,825,438 1955 .. 68,629,903
1953 .. 57,065,581 [ 1956 .. 68,687,703
. * Includes export gallons.
On a comparison of the latest monthly
figures, production this year will pro-
bably reverse the trend evident in the
table. And there doesn’t seem to be
much likelihood of developing an export
trade to counter the (temporary, anyway)
contraction in the home market. The
co.’s own export business has been
hampered in the past by shipping diffi-
culties and rising costs and, according to
chairman N. J. Carson, the prospect of
increasing sales overseas is not promising.
Last year expenditure on the breweries
and various hotels amounted to
£1,971,580. A number of major improve-
ments are still being carried out: 1 —
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £5,850,000 £6,337,450 £7,799,767
Reserves* .. 6,894,382 7,334,199 7,925,219
Outside interests 31,211 33,291 45,868
Debentures .. 1,417,750 1,499,950 1,499,950
Mortgage .. 124,353 118,324 112,295
Overdraft .. 113,128 1,113,531 85,199
Creditors! .. 2,215,063 1,997,753 2,163,454
Final divs. .. 346,500 292,500 428,989
£16,992,387 £18,726,998 £20,060,741
Breweries, hotels! 9-,994,889 10,467,652 11,622,740
Plant .. .. 3,365,778 3,895,421 4,711,913
Stocks .. 1,526,245 1,688,987 1,699,714
Debtors, etc... 1,816,569 2,330,436 1,585,365
Cash, etc. .. 288,337 343,280 434,414
Suspense a/c .. 569 1,222 6,595
£16,992,387 £18,726,998 £20,060,741
* After deducting intangibles, £905,447 at 30/6/’56.
! Includes tax provision. 1 Includes hotel leaseholds.
To finance the work and clip over £l-
- off the amount due to outsiders
the co. lightened book-debts, etc., by
£745,071 and called-up the balance of its
unpaid capital.
The spread of the C.U.B. shares
among the holding-cos. whose scrip is
listed on ’Change is as follows:
Paid Holding Div., Market*
Capital, in C.U.8., p.c. Yield,
Company. £ p.c. p.a. p.c.
Carlton Brewery
(10s.) .. .. 4,575,156 35.83 10 5.3
Melbourne Co-op.
(10s.) .. .. 4,838,180 33.76 10.4 6.9
Castlemaine (155.) 720,000 6.02 8.3 7.0
Poster (205.) .. 299,520 4.26 11 7.1
Shamrock (205.).. 367,497 4.26 10 7.6
Other interests .. 15.87 ,
*At current market price of shares.
Some of the cos. supplement the divs.
received from C.U.B. by rents, etc., from
properties and investments of their own.
Larke Hoskins Industries, Ltd.
OALES of new motor-vehicles have
fallen sharply over the last six
months, and the earnings of new-car
distributors are showing the effects of
strong competition in a market reduced
by high sales-tax and the scarcity of bank-
credit.
However, the past few years have seen
fairly lucrative trading conditions for
distributors of several popular makes,
and some diminution of those high
profits is only to be expected. The latest
accounts of Larke Hoskins Industries
reflect these altered conditions, but,
although earnings were lower, there was
no difficulty in maintaining the 15 p.c.
div.
The Larke Hoskins group of cos. grew
from a business established by the Larke
brothers in 1901, the Austin franchise
for most of N.S.W., obtained nearly 38
years ago, providing the group with its
main source of income. The reorganisa-
tion of Larke Hoskins and Co., Ltd., in
1954 led to the formation of Larke
Hoskins Industries, ord. shareholders in
the old co. exchanging their 800,000 ss.
shares for 800,000 £1 ords. in the new
holding co. The £40,000 5 p.c. pref.
capital was repaid at a cost of £42,000,
and £200,000 raised on 6 p.c. notes repay-
able in 1959. A one-for-three par issue
in May, ’56, brought paid capital to its
present total of £1,066,666.
The parent co. controls eight sub-
sidiaries concerned with the assembly,
distribution and servicing of motor-
vehicles and parts and the maintenance of
the group’s fixed assets. One of the larger
subsidiaries, Pressed Metal Corp., Ltd.,
supplies the British Motor Corp. (Aust.)
Pty., with commercial bodies for Austin
and Morris vehicles. In the current term
the Australian offshoot of the English
Rover Co. has taken-up 225,000 £1 ords.
in this subsidiary, which, in turn, has
agreed to assemble Rover and Land /,
Rover vehicles for the whole of Australia
and to manufacture a progressively in-
creasing number of parts for use in the
production of these vehicles.
The consolidated accounts to June 30
last cover a 14-month period ; and com-
parison of sales and production-figures
with those of the previous 12 months show
a drop in the rate of turnover and vehicle
sales:
Production and Sales.
14 Months to 12 Months to
June 30,’56. April 30,’56.
Sales new vehicles .. .. 7,391 7,906
Sales used vehicles .. .. 388 308
Vehicles produced by sub-
sidiary 10,790 8,580
Total turnover .. ..£10,626,293 £9,216,250
Body-building facilities were not fully
utilised during the term, and it is hoped
that, as orders from the B.M.C. decrease
(with that co.’s increased production), the
assembly of Rover vehicles will assist
in maintaining turnover. Sales of spare-
parts were the highest on record.
After providing £157,200 for taxation
and £45,775 for depreciation, a net profit
of £230,140 is claimed for the 14 months.
When the £230,140 is adjusted for com-
parison with earnings in the previous 12
months (£290,932), a fall of £93,655 is
revealed:
Larke, Hoskins and Co., Ltd., and Subsidiary.
, Dividends—— N To Re- Re-
April Profit. Pref.Ord. Total. serves. serves.
30, £ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
Property revalued, £49,500 ~ .. 348,484
Surplus sale shares, £4032 .. .. 352,516
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 302,516
1951 ..302,913 6 30 62,000 240,913 543,429
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1952 ..264,217 5 30 62,000 202,217 745,646
Stock reserve written-back, £250,000 995,646
Tax overprovided, £85,282 .. ..1,080,928
Additional depreciation, £35,000 .. 1,045,928
1953 ..128,234 5 30 62,000 66,234 1,112,162
1954 ..201,545 5 30 62,000 139,545 1,251,707
Larke, Hoskins Industries, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
Reserves capitalised, £600,000 .. 651,707
From sundry provis’s, etc., £400,000 1,051,707
Unexplained reduction, £BO,OOO .. 971,707
1955 ..290,932 5* 15 123,000 167,932 1,139,639
Unexplained additions, £13,033 .. 1,152,672
Pre-acquisition profits, £1222 .. 1,153,894
June 30,
1956 t. .230,140 15 146,667 83,473 1,237,367
* Six months only, f For 14 months; dividend at
rate p.a.
The net profit equals a return of 23.5 p.c.
p.a. from average ord. capital, compared
with 36.3, 95.4, 65.2, 130.7, 150.7, and
472 p.c. back to 1950.
For a full term, a 15 p.c. div. on the
higher capital would require £159,999, or
£37,278 less than the average earnings for
12 months of the last term.
The decline in sales resulted in an
accumulation of stock (up £566,830) and
a reduction of £212,450 in debtors:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £240,000 £BOO,OOO £1,066,666
Reserves .. . . 1,251,707 1,139,639 1,237,367
Notes .. .. 200,000 200,000
Mortgage .. .. 100,000 121,000 264,500
Overdraft . . . . 141,011 196,738 452,874
Creditors . . .. 392,995 704,855 859,235
Tax provision, etc.* 676,629 £83,280 414,186
Final divs. .. 41,000 'BO,OOO 66,667
£2,843,342 £3,725,512 £4,561,495
Freeholds, etc. .. 850,148 913,349 1,053,853
Plant, etc. . . 158,474 158,459 438,931
Investments .. 434,787 421,869 412,037
Stocks .. . . 1,201,761 1,752,614 2,319,444
Debtors . . .. 187,002 466,683 254,233
Cash .. .. 11,170 12,538 82,997
£2,843,342 £8,725,512 £4,661,495
* The etcetera is “sundry provisions,” £245,682 at
30/6/’66.
A net £420,976 was added to fixed assets,
including £280,472 to plant. Freeholds
are shown at “cost or revaluation,” and
plant at cost, after depreciation in both
cases. Retained earnings and the £266,666
from the share-issue were insufficient to
finance the overall £835,983 increase in
assets, and at the end of the term
creditors were waiting for an extra
£154,380, the mortgage was £143,500
higher and the overdraft had risen
by £256,036 (although cash balances
amounted to £82,997). With £2,319,444
tied-up in stock, emphasis is likely to be
placed on its disposal rather than on
further expansion in the immediate
future.
Although long-term prospects seem
good, the market, by pricing the f.-p. £1
shares at 225. 9d. (to return 13.2 p.c. from
a 15 p.c. div.), apparently agrees with the
directors, who expect the current term to
“be a difficult one.”
There are net tangible assets of 435. 2d.
for each £1 of paid capital.
Frederic Ash, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. r Dividends—serves. serves.
1951.-67,946 15 p.c. = 34,500 33,446 146,989
Net additions, £5471 .. .. .. 151,460
1952.. 68,192 12i p.c. = 33,750 34,442 185,902
Back taxes, £l5B .. .. •. 185,744
1953.. 70,157 12i p.c. = 33,750]
Provision long-service f 28,292 214,036
leave, £Blls .. j
Back taxes, £930 .. .. .. 213,106
1954.. 87.017 15 p.c.= 40,5001
Provision long-service 1 37,517 250,623
leave, £9OOO .. J
1955.-111,804 17'i p.c.t= 47,250 64,554 315,177
Tax overprovided, £12,648 .. .. 327,825
1956.. 89,062 15 p.c.= 40,500 48,562 376,387
■pREDERIC Ash sold more builders’-
and plumbers’-hardware for a 20 p.c.
smaller net profit in the year to June 30
last.
The 2} p.c. bonus-dividend paid in
1955 was in honor of a special event, the
co.’s centenary, and its omission last term
may not have been unexpected. In any
event, the sharemarket appeared satisfied
with the result and in* recent weeks its
bids for the scrip have been raised to
525. for an immediate return of 5.7 p.c.
on the basis of the reduced 15 p.c. div.
The number of houses begun and com-
pleted in N.S.W. last year was smaller
than in the previous term, though on the
total value of new building in the State
this leeway was more than made up by
new office-, shop- and factory-construc-
tion. For some manufacturers of
building-materials, however, it has meant
that plant has been operating at less than
full capacity. Lately the N.S.W. Building
Industry Congress reported a slight
improvement in the demand, in its opinion
the early result of the new Common-
wealth-States Housing Agreement.
The headquarters of Frederic Ash are
at Newcastle (N.S.W.). Branches have
been opened at Lismore (1910), Cessnock
(1924) and at Wollongong (1928), the
growing heavy-industry centre on the
N.S.W. south coast. Another branch
established in Sydney in 1930 specialises
in plate- and sheet-glass, shopfronts and
glazing. In 1933 a substantial interest
was secured in Queensland hardware-
merchants R. S. Exton and Co. Pty., Ltd.
(Brisbane and Toowoomba). The co. is
also interested in the Newcastle concerns,
Vencore Veneers Pty., Ltd. (manufac-
turing patented caseboards), and Harle-
quin Products Co. Pty., Ltd. (disinfec-
tants, polishes, liquid-soaps, etc.).
Last year an extra £1648 was set aside
for income-tax (£61,648) and £BO6 for
depreciation (£4344) before writing profit
at £89,062. The net figure was equal to
33 p.c. on capital, as against 41.4 p.c. in
1955. At the same time previous excess
provisions for tax amounting to £12,648
were written-back.
Additions to fixed assets (up £66,065),
stocks (up £57,422) and debtors (up


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
MAGNETIC ORE SEPARATOR
Manufactured by Rapid Magnetic Machines, Ltd., England,
■: i >
'■
for the recovery of
Zircon Rutile, etc., from
beach and other sands
and magnetic minerals.
Machines also for re-
moval of iron, etc., from
various products. Lift-
ing Magnets, Clutches,
Holding or Clamping
Magnets, Magnetic Floor
Sweepers, etc.
Send for Bulletin to
the Agents :
GUTHRIDGE PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.,
Manufacturers of Curvilinear Concentrating Tables, Water
Filters, Everlasting Steam Valves, etc.
a
The word
for Brandy
since 1858
BX9
WL tE/,’
SPECIAL HOSPI
ill
fff
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH
AND AUSTRALIAN BANK
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Summary of Position as at 30/6/56
Total Assets £152,427,839
Australian Currency
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash, bank balances, etc
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable ....
Investments
Australian
Currency
£19,917,481
23,047,000
10,012,802
14,577,562
£67,554,845
Advances, etc I .... 79,328,219
Amount owing by subsidiary company 647,220
Deduct:
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Deposits, etc., including
Contingencies Reserves £139,344,507
Balances due to other banks 3,676,444
Provisions for tax 722,343
Dividend payable 224,948
£147,530,284
Add:
FIXED ASSETS
Premises
Investments in subsidiary
companies ....
£2,677,727
2,219,828
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS*
♦ Since 30th June, 1956, an additional
£2,500,000 capital has been called-up.
PROFITS
143,968,242
£3,562,042
4,897,555
£8,459,597
Each £1 of gross profit for year to 30th June, 1956,
was used in this way
All expenses of management, including £ s.
salaries and wages of staff 16
Income taxes 2
Payments to Officers’ Provident Fund ..
Dividends 1
Reserves
£1 0 0
H. G. ENSTEN,
General Manager in Australia.
:
NOW USED IN
12 COUNTRIES
•ARTHUR'
ROHIY
suan
fAT.
solves all your
pasture control
problems!
CHOICE OF CHAINS, KNIVES
AND PASTURE TOPPING ENDS MAKES IT
WORLD’S MOST VERSATILE SLASHING MACHINE
1. CHAINS. For clearing rough, uneven
ground of regrowth, bracken, thistles, ti-
tree, horehound, onion weed, broombush,
etc. Outs Bft. swathe at 2-4 J m.p.h.
2. KNIVES. For clearing even ground of
dense, sappy growths or fibrous growths
such as rushes. Cuts 6-7 ft. swathe at
2-4 m.p.h. . . . forward or reverse.
3. PASTURE TOPPING ENDS. For
topping seeds and fleece infesting burrs
and clearing occasional sappy growth in
even pastures where there are no obstacles.
Cuts 7-BJft. swathe at 3-5 m.p.h.
tV Chains, knives and topping ends quickly
interchangeable. it Clears 5-7 acres hr.
for approx. 1/- acre, it Also ideal for
draining flood debris, cutting fire-breaks,
stubble mulching, etc. it Adjustable fric-
tion type coupling cushions shock loads.
it Disc rides in centre of swathe and auto-
matically controls working height of
chains by following ground contours.
it Fite any tractor P.T.O.
Price, complete with chains and all
fittings, £l9B, F. 0.8., F. 0.8., all Capital
Cities. Knives and Topping Ends optional
extra, £l9/10/- complete set.
TODSON
For further particulars write to the manufacturers'
I. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS: S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd.; Power Plant Ltd. VIC.' William
Adams Tractors Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A. • Wigmo’res Ltd •
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe; British Tractors Pty
Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day & Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle Motors’
Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. N.Z.; Andrews & Beaven Ltd., Christehurch!
Export inquiries to the Manufacturers.
having due regard to accessi-
bility, appeared to offer scope
to examine the largest number
and variety of outcrops. Under
these conditions it is absurd to
suggest that geologists should
traverse up to 15 miles of sand-
dunes between outcrops on foot.
The right procedure is to work
out, from a study of aerial
photographs, the best route to
follow by “jeep-leap,” thus
providing more time for a care-
ful study of the rock outcrops
themselves.
In any case, the survey was
designed and carried out as a
reconnaissance. Until this was
done and the results appraised,
it would have been foolish to
attempt detailed traversing such
as Mr. Owen recommends, even
if the terrain permitted it.
In B. 11111'56 Mr. Owen
refers to the work of Dr. Frank
Reeves (among others) in the
Carnarvon Basin. It is one of
Dr. Reeves’s greatest regrets that
he never had the opportunity of
visiting, much less working in,
this Basin.
£44,472) point to a fairly lively
if less profitable expansion of
trade:
1954. 1955. 1956.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 270.000 270,000 270,000
Reserves .. 250,623 315,177 376,387
Overdraft .. 31,083 55,035 151,406
Creditors, etc. 170,185 191,277 161,202
Due to subsid. . 9,509 3,880
Final dividend 27,000 33,750 27,000
748,841 874,748 989,875
Freeholds .. 147,760 t Ifi „ ,
Plant .. .. 29,449 f 183 > 6 35 192,278
Shares subsid. 501 48,250 48,250
Shares other cos. 68,690 68,683 68,689
Stock .. .. 261,935 353,450 410,872
Debtors .. 193,251 220,800 264,772
Due by subsid. 47,122 1,793
Cash .. .. 133 430 3,221
748,841 874,748 989,875
To finance the growth the co.
used the year’s surplus profit and
an extra £96,371 bank-credit.
It also clipped £30,075 off the
amount due to trade creditors,
so the liquids have lost little of
their very comfortable appear-
ance. At balance-date the ratio
of current assets to liabilities was
just about two-to-one. Net
tangible cover was 475. lOd. a
share on values that are
obviously conservative.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
XTIGHER metal prices helped
to swell last term’s earnings
from the big Barrier mines, and
Broken Hill South’s profits
ended up 10.4 p.c. better than
those of the previous year.
Sharemarket interest has pushed
the price of South’s ss. stock-
units from 68s. to 82s. 6d. over
the last six months, the scrip
reaching a “high” of 935. cum
div. (4s. 6d.) in October. At
82s. 6d. there would be a return
of 10.3 p.c. from an 170 p.c. div.
The main investment problem
is the probable life of the mine,
estimated nearly 10 years ago at
about nine years. Exploration
and the effect of higher prices
on the value of marginal ore
have since added to reserves, and
at June 30 last they were “conser-
vatively estimated” at 1,850,000
tons of ore —a fall of 50,000
torts over the year. Handled at
last term’s rate of throughput, the
1,850,000 tons would last less
than six years. To quote the
chairman (G. Lindesay Clark),
at the recent annual meeting:
With its ore-reserves, though not
insignificant, obviously limited in and
around the main-lode areas, the South
company must find new ore-bodies if
it is to continue indefinitely its highly
successful career as a mining company
in Broken Hill.
Late in the term the co. exer-
cised its option to purchase (for
£150,000) the plant and gold-and-
copper leases held by New
Occidental Gold Mines, N.L.,
near Cobar (N.S.W.). Arrange-
ments have now been made to
determine whether sufficient ore-
reserves can be established to
justify production.
South and its s u bsi d i a r y,
Barrier Central Pty., have built
up an extensive investment-
portfolio valued in the accounts
at £3,960,864 and worth quite
a lot more. Market valuation
of the £1,337,000 of listed stock
shows an appreciation of
£2,524,000. Although scrip in
allied or associated mining and
treatment cos. makes-up the
majority of the investments, there
are substantial holdings in cos.
not directly connected with the
mining industry. Income from
investments increased last term
from £446,439 to £492,119, or
12s. 4d. for each £ of the co.’s
£BOO,OOO paid capital.
Apart from investments,
current assets amounted to
£6,312,343, or £1,636,160 more
than current liabilities, the
balance-sheet displaying South’s
financial strength:
B.H. South and Subsidiaries.
1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £BOO,OOO £BOO,OOO
Reserves .. 5,738,464 6,336,836
Depreciation .. 2,436,684 2,640,438
Outside interests 614,965 687,527
Sundry creditors* 1,699,659 2,003,223
Tax provision, etc. 1,421,498 1,952,960
Final div. .. 640,000 720,000
£13,351,270 £15,140,984
Freeholds, etc.f 969,984 929,175
Plant, etc. .. 3,443,554 3,938,602
Investments .. 3,757,529 3,960,864
Current assets .. 5,180,203 6,312,343
£13.351,270 £15,140,984
* Includes provision for long-service leave
and contingencies, etc.
f Includes leaseholds and No. 7 mine
shaft.
Even ignoring fixed assets (mine,
plant, etc.), there was still a net
asset backing of 30s. Bd. for each
ss. stock-unit.
The quantity of ore mined for
the term was practically un-
changed at 348,863 tons, the mill
treating 337,210 tons (down
1440 tons):
r~ Assay ;
Crudes, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
South-
-1955 . . 266,433 11.8 6.3 10.9
1956 .. 267,454 11.7 6.4 11.2
Central—•
1955 .. 72,217 12.5 9.3 11.7
1956 .. 69,756 11.3 9.2 11.5
A further 13,455 tons of
oxidised ore was forwarded
direct to the smelters at Pt. Pirie
or Pt. Kembla.
The average price obtained
for the metals rose—lead by £lO
to £132 Bs. a ton, zinc by £l5
to £ll9 16s. 7d. and silver by
syd. to Bs. Id. an oz. However,
the increased cost of stores, and
wages and the lead - bonus,
resulted in higher mine working-
costs, South’s costs advancing
from £8 7s. 6d. a ton of crude
ore to £8 19s. 2d., and Barrier
Central from £lO Is. 7d. to
£ll 13s. Bd. P.-and-l. items also
absorbed more of the revenue,
provision being made for taxa-
tion (up £418,896 to £1,193,698)
depreciation (up £43,981 to
£217,448) and royalty (up
£95,431 to £330,613) before
arriving at a net profit of
£1,952,820, an improvement of
£187,996:
B.H. South and Subsidiaries.
Re-
Jne., Profit.* Dividends-— v serves.t
£ p.c. £ £ ■
’52. .1,516,524 160 = 1,280,000 3,598,366
Sale leases, £700,000 .. 4,298,366
Long-leave, £200,000 .. 4,098,366
Add adjustments, £6583 .. 4,104,949
’53.. 1,543,790 120= 960,000 4,688,739
Capital profit, £8362 .. 4,697,101
Long-leave, £70,000 .. 4,627,101
Add adjustments, £27,137 .. 4,654,238
’54. .1,319,309 130 = 1,040,000 4,933,547
Profit sale assets, etc.,
£235,470 6,169,017
Add adjustments, £4623 .. 5,173,640
’55. .1,764,824 140 = 1,200,000 5,738,464
Add adjustments, £5552 .. 5,744,016
’56.. 1,952,820 170 = 1,360,000 6,336,836
* After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests.
t Not including depreciation reserve,
£2,640,438 at 30/6/’56.
There was no difficulty in lifting
the div.-rate from 140 p.c. to
170 p.c., for earnings equalled
244.1 p.c. on capital, as against
220.6 p.c. and 164.9 p.c. in the
two preceding years. The sub-
sidiary Oceana lead-silver mine
at Zeehan (Tas.) in its second
year of production produced
15,372 tons of ore for the mill
and paid its first (£50,000)
dividend. However, operations at
the Oceana mine are stated to
be “difficult” and “expensive,”
while results from the other
mining offshoot, the Conrad
mine (lead-copper-silver) in
northern N.S.W., have been
disappointing.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Sydney is just beginning to look like
Christmas. The city is filling again
with all the«people who have been down
south having a wonderful time at the
Games (which by all accounts were
“simply marvellous”) and Christmas-
parties are already well under way.
One of the most successful was that
given by the members of the Symphony
Orchestral Committee to members of the
Orchestra, with new president Sir John
Tivey receiving the guests. Sir John, by
the way, is the first man ever to have
been president of this committee. All the
guests were music-makers or music-lovers,
a group of very pretty “violins” being
Barbara Kearns, Eva Kelly, Yvonne
Gannoni, Delia Woods and Dulcie Blair.
Sydney’s new Lord Mayor, Aid. H. F.
Jensen, came along and made a speech.
Conductor Tiber Paul was present. A
notable hat was Mrs. E. Blashki’s
American model, glittering like snow.
Lady Lloyd Jones’s lily-of-the-valley
diamond-spray caught the eye (her son
David has just been elected to the City
Council and becomes the youngest aider-
man ever). Mrs. Hope Gibson was wear-
ing a sparkling brooch designed like a
treble-clef, which was a recent gift of
the Wollongong Music Club. Lady Tivey
wore a suit of green figured-silk.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. Mary Booth, 0.8. E., who passed
away recently at the age of 91, was one
of Sydney’s most outstanding women.
Among the earliest of our women-doctors,
she worked for the Rachel Forster Hospi-
tal, the Women’s Club and the Women
Graduates Association. She founded the
Memorial College of Household Arts and
Sciences at Kirribilli, but was best known
for the work she did for soldiers in the
First World War, particularly in founding
the Soldiers’ Club in George-street. She
also founded the Anzac World Fellow-
ship for Women. She was a woman of
keen intelligence and great strength of
character. Her work was recognised by
the Queen, who bestowed on her the
Order of the British Empire.
☆ ☆ ☆
Of great interest to country people was
the wedding during the week of Pamela
Lamph (only daughter of the L. J.
Lamphs, of Karingal, Girilambone) to
Phillip Darley-Thompson (only son of
Mrs. H. Darley-Thompson, of Gerara,
Bourke). Bridesmaids at the "wedding,
which took place at St. Stephens',
Macquarie-street, were Flora Smith
(Yumba-thuddi, Girilambone), Betty
Gibson (Wilga Dale, Girilambone) and
Mary Wright (Bibbenluke, Merriwa).
Pamela, who wore white Chantilly-lace, is
the granddaughter of J. J. Gibson, of
Wilga Dale, which was one of the early
grants to the Gibson family, pioneers of
the Girilambone district.
# # &
■ “Crazy mixed-up egg” is how the
humble scraffibled-egg is described on
Anthony Horderns’ special children’s
menu, which also describes a boiled-egg
as a meteor and a poached-egg as a
satellite. It seems a bright idea to get the
youngsters interested in their food, though
slices of bread and butter as “flying-
saucers” might inspire some of the more
adventurous juniors to send theirs
zooming round the room.
* ☆ ☆
A Christmas gathering with a striking
name was the “Purse-giving Service” at
the Y.W.C.A. on Thursday night, which
all the “Y” clubs made their contribution
to_ the Christmas funds. A Christmas-tree
15ft. high stood in the vestibule sur-
rounded by gifts of foodstuffs, which were
later distributed to the City Mission. The
regional-secretary, Miss Millicent Jones,
gave the address (her subject, “A
Christmas Story”) and the choir of the
“Y” sang Australian Christmas carols.
V v #
Designed to help the Chair of Aus-
tralian Literature Fund, which now stands
round the £20,000 mark and needs a
further £60,000, is a special entertain-
ments-committee formed during the week
by delegates from Sydney’s literary and
cultural societies. The president is Mrs.
C. G. Ball (Metropolitan Operetta Com-
pany), with a committee consisting of
Noel Pelly (Elizabethan Little Theatre
Group), Susan Macintosh (G. and S.
Society), Mollie Eagle (Independent
Theatre), Barry Stern (Poetry Society),
Lionel J. Pearcey (W.E.A. Attic Theatre),
with University students represented by
Betty Stafford and Jeff Hamilton, of the
Apex Clubs. Sounds a pretty strong
combination, one that should bring good
results.
One of the first functions to aid the
committee in the New Year will be the
production by the Poetry Society of
Peter Bladen’s verse-play “The Tin God,”
which won the verse-play contest recently
organised by the Poetry Society.
# V V
Who would like to knit some clothes
for the refugee-children of Europe? The
Save the Children Fund will supply the
wool and will organise its distribution
abroad. They are interested at present to
hear from anyone willing to do the
knitting. The person to get in touch
with is Mrs. H. K. Ward, 9 Wybalena-
road, Hunter’s Hill.
☆ ☆
A tour of the North Coast (which dis-
concertingly becomes the South Coast at
Coolangatta) has provided this Letter
with one or two ideas for brightening up
the Olympic Games next time they are
held in Australia. Forty years hence?
That gives us plenty of time to organise.
First, there should be a punt-driving
contest. This would be certain to win
another gold-medal for Australia, which,
in Colin and Warren Blows, of Forster,
must have the cleverest punt-drivers in
the world. Of course, the punt at Forster
isn’t really a punt, it is a raft capable of
carrying 10 tons across a shallow and
winding channel to Tuncurry. To this
is attached by a rope a motor-launch
which pushes and pulls the “punt” along
its passage, turning it round and nudging
it like a sheep-dog, guiding it tfgainst the
wind and the tide, easing it off the sand-
banks, and manoeuvring it along its path
with skill. It is an amazing sight to see,
and the Blows boys who drive that launch
should certainly be in the Olympics.
Another thing that could be included
(in the cycling events) would be a bevy
of the girls from Grafton (N.S.W.) going
to work on their bikes. Dressed in
billowy nylons in all the sweetpea colors,
riding over a carpet of jacaranda-
blossoms and under a canopy of
misty-blue, they are a sight the world
would come to see.
Philippa Baker, who plays Agnes in the
Genesian Theatre’s new production “The
Beautiful People,” by William Saroyan,
has appeared in several Genesian presen-
tations and recently went on tour with
the N.S.W. Arts Council in “Twelfth
Night.” “The Beautiful People” opens at
the Genesians’ Kent-street Theatre on
Friday, December 14. Photo by John
Hearder.
Seasonal song for ’56:
Christmas is dooming and the ducks are
getting fat,
You can cook your Christmas-pudding
in your pudding-basin hat,
You can bake your Christmas-cake in
your “cake-tin,” too,
But if you’ve only got a “flower-pot,”
then God bless you.
MELBOURNE
The athletes are on their way home,
the Olympic Flame has been extinguished,
the thrills of the Games are now but a
memory. But the let-down from all the
excitement is made more gradual by all
the decorations being left up for
Christmas. Those who have spent day
after day in the Main Stadium are now
rushing madly around the town looking
for Christmas gifts.
Lady Clarke, wife of Sir Rupert Clarke,
Bt., was hostess to many overseas visitors
at a luncheon she gave at Bolinda Vale,
Clarkefield, the 5000 -acre property that
has been in Sir Rupert’s family for 130
years. As the host is very interested in
pistol-shooting and the foils, members of
the overseas teams competing in these
sports at the Games were among the
guests. Photo by Broothorn.
Government House was bathed in a
rosy glow of floodlight for the ball given
by Sir Dallas and Lady Brooks in honor
of the Duke of Edinburgh. The Duke’s
standard fluttered in the soft breeze ; the
flower-beds were illuminated and trees
hung with colored lights.
In the course of the evening the
1400 guests went out on to the
lawns to hear the R.A.A.F. concert-band
play Tschaikowsky’s “1812” Overture,
complete with vivid flashes of light, a
realistic snowstorm and the crash of
gunfire which re-created the atmosphere
of the Retreat from Moscow.
Earlier, guests had gathered in the
white-and-gold ballroom for the arrival
of the Duke and the vice-regal party, who
were greeted by a fanfare played by
R.A.A.F. musicians, followed by the
Coronation setting of the National
Anthem.
Wherever guests looked they saw the
most wonderful flower-arrangements.
Supper was set in the State dining-
room, and in alcoves and on every table
were masses of flowers and silver
candelabra. There were also large figures
of athletes, holding the Olympic Torch
carved in ice. The ballroom was all
glitter from the diamond tiaras, the jewels
and sequin-embroidery of many gowns
and the Orders worn by men guests.
Lady Brooks wore a lovely gown of
white duchess-satin beautifully em-
broidered with pearls and silver seed-
beads. The fitted bodice had a heart-
shaped neckline, and the skirt, which was
very full, had embroidered motifs centred
with clusters of flowers outlined in the
pearls and silver beads. She % wore a
diamond tiara.
Lady George, wife of the Governor
of S.A., chose white satin for her gown,
but added a coat of shell-pink satin to
match the cummerbund at the waist.
Mrs. Henry Bolte, who (with the Premier)
wa§ presented to the Duke, wore cham-
pagne satin, the bodice cut wide to the
shoulders and finished with a deep swathe
of the satin. The Lady Mayoress’s gown
of heavenly-blue French-lace was mounted
on matching nylon-tulle.
Cream and gold satin-brocade fashioned
Princess Margretha’s gown, with which
she wore a diamond tiara; Princess
Josephine Charlotte chose a full-skirted
gown of old-gold satin and a gold lame
stole. •
Mrs. T. J. Ryan wore chiffon in soft
Parma-violet tonings. Mrs. John Grim-
wade’s gown of white tulle featured a
long-sleeved bodice and a high neckline
finished with lace-posies. Mrs. Fred
Dennett, who is a patient at the Mercy
Hospital, wore a white frock as she
looked on from a wheel-chair. Mrs.
Leslie Coleman was another who
wouldn’t let illness stop her from
attending.
☆ ☆ ☆
For the State Government’s Town Hall
reception to the Duke of Edinburgh the
organ-loft vanished behind a curtain of
royal-blue and grey brocade on which
were embossed the Olympic circles. The
slightly-raised dais was directly in front
of the stage, which was concealed behind
a curved screen of pale-blue panelled in
royal-blue, on which were hung shields
painted with the coats-of-arms of the
Duke, the City of Melbourne and each of
our States.
On arrival His Royal Highness was
received by the Premier and Mrs. Bolte
(her gown was of palest-tea-rose pink
Chantilly-lace mounted on deeper-pink
taffeta).
After the National Anthem had been
played the Premier presented President
of the Legislative Council Sir Clifden
Eager and Lady Eager, Chief Justice
Sir Edmund Herring and Lady Herring,
Legislative Assembly Speaker D. J.
McDonald and Mrs. McDonald,
members of Cabinet and their wives, and
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
Sir Frank and Lady Selleck).
Lady Herring chose a gown of haze-
blue and silver brocade; Lady Eager
wore gold and cream brocade; Mrs.
McDonald’s black chiffon gown was
highlighted with tiny bows of turquoise-
blue velvet from the bodice-front to the
hem of the graceful skirt. Lady Warner,
wife of the Minister for Transport,
chose white satin patterned in green and
blue flowers. Mrs. Ken Luke’s white
satin sheath-gown was embroidered in
blue-and-silver bead-flowers down the
front of the skirt.
Mrs. Kevin Purcell (who was with her
husband, Major Purcell, and her mother,
Dame Mary Daly) chose a full-skirted
gown of white lace. Pam Dixon wore
a skirt of white satin with a bodice of
moss-green satin. Mrs. Peter Howson’s
white lace mounted on taffeta had
Wedgwood-blue velvet outlining the
high waistline.
☆ ☆
Guest-of-honor at the late-afternoon
party given by Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh in their Toorak Home was the
Finnish Charge d’Affaires, Mr. Pavos
Simmailes. The lovely evening enticed
guests into the garden, where were set
small tables and chairs and large gay
beach-umbrellas.
The hostess chose an ensemble of heavy
satin in thunder-grey scattered with
clusters of pastel flowers. Among the
guests were Mr. and Mrs. Ron Marriott,
who were with Mrs. Marriott’s parents,
Colonel and Mrs. F. H. Wright; Mrs.
Norman Hill (Sydney), wearing a coat-
frock of buttercup-yellow silk-shantung
and a mushroom-hat swathed with white
chiffon; Mrs. Oswald Bowden, Mrs.
Angus Jones, Mrs. Arthur Joyce and
Mrs. Len Buxton. Mrs. Alan Powell was
smart in black-and-white-spotted silk
frock and high-crowned black tulle hat.
CANBERRA
An attractive visitor to the Hotel Can-
berra has been dark-eyed Signora L.
Sebastiani, wife of the new Consul-
General for Italy. With her husband, she
was entertained at the Legation by the
Italian Minister, Signor Silvio Daneo, and
Signora Daneo, and was introduced to
members of the Legation staff. Recently
arrived from Holland, where her husband
was Counsellor of the Italian Legation,
Signora Sebastiani has two children (both
born in Vienna) and she is looking
forward .to living in Sydney.
V v V
Bright musical entertainment and some
interesting films helped to make the
Christmas party of the Victoria League,
given at Canberra University College,
enjoyable. Unusual supper-table decora-
tions were centre-pieces of “red robins
cleverly made from tree-nuts and cotton-
wool, nesting in trailing green leaves
tipped with frost.
To receive the members and their
guests, the president, Mrs. M. Jacobs,
chose an attractive green-and-black
brocade frock ; she was assisted by vice-
president Mrs. J. K. Lawrence, who wore
a midnight-blue frock patterned with
silver thread. Among those present were
Mr. and Mrs. S. Lucas, she wearing
a rich brocade jacket over her black
velvet-trimmed frock ; Lady Brown, who
topped her black frock with a grey
squirrel jacket; Mr. and Mrs. S. A. M.
Minto; foundation-member Mrs. C.
Thomas; Mr. and Mrs. F. May; and
Mrs. P. Fethers.


HARVEST LEAVE
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
CHANTER and all the
other farmers who were
getting help for their
harvests, solid, middle-
aged and overworked men
mostly, went to meet the train
on the morning the soldiers
arrived.
They wondered how much
help they would be, these men
who had been drafted out of
Army training-camps to help
with vital work'on farms . . .
the war-effort.
When the train pulled-in, the
soldiers looked like schoolboys
on holidays, crowding to the
windows, leaning out perilously
to whistle to girls, and asking
unexpected questions.
“What sort of town is this?”
“Do they have many
dances?”
“Is there a military camp
near?”
“How often will we be able
to get to town?”
One said sadly; after
Chanter’s discouraging replies,
“Well, is there any chance of
there being a girl where I’m
sent? I’ve got to have a
woman! ”
Presently the soldiers were
let out of the train and assigned
to their employers. Chanter
got the one who couldn’t live
without a woman.
/"''HANTER didn’t think him
promising; he still had the
ungainliness of the adolescent,
his shoulders sagged and his
head drooped too far forward.
His mouth looked as if its main
purpose was to support a
cigarette.
But he had bright, merry eyes
and Chanter. liked his boyish-
ness. He Seemed to regard
Chanter as holding the
authority of the Army and
followed him with docility.
George’s brief working - life
before his call-up had been
spent in a Newtown boot-
factory. He sat beside Chanter
in his car, looking without
interest at what was obviously
just “country.” His spirits
declined as they drove farther
and farther from the town.
Chanter tried to interest him
in the glorious crops of wheat
which stood in great green
masses in paddocks of a
hundred or more acres
“It’s been a marvellous
season,” said Chanter.
George said nothing.
But when they had to pull up
to let a Land-army girl driving
a mob of sheep get past, he
revived.
“What’s she? What’s she
doing here?” he wanted to
know.
Chanter told him that she was
an attempt to solve the labor-
problem.
BUT George was staring so
hard at the girl that he didn’t
seem to hear what Chanter was
saying.
Her hat was tilted on to the
back of her head so that the
sun shone on her face. In the
hatband she had placed a spray
of wildflowers; there was
another spray under the head-
band of her horse’s bridle, and
even her long-haired, shiny,
black sheepdog had an ever-
lasting-daisy stuck in his collar.
The dog was trying to curb
the antics of a lively bunch of
young rams. They were some
pampered studs ; fat, round and
woolly like big toys. They were
butting each other in flank and
rear, and getting up to all sorts
of unmannerly tricks, as young
rams do when the season is
good and their masculinity is
running strong in their veins.
“Gee! What a girl!” George
exclaimed.
Her nose was rather too
large, and shining from
exposure to the weather; but
her eyes were large and shining
too, and she walked in the warm
sun with enjoyment.
“Who does she work for?”
said George.
“Our nextdoor neighbor;
three miles away,” said Chanter.
“I suppose I could walk that
far,” George decided.
“As a matter of fact, we’re
going to cut some hay on her
boss’s place as soon as I can
get my binder ready. You
might be doing some work
together. That girl is the only
help Jenkins has on a big farm.
Both his sons and his daughter
have gone into the Services.”
ON the appointed day Jenkins
met them at his gate. He
was the sort of man whose gate
anyone would hesitate to open
without his authority. He was
a big, heavy man with a hard,
down-curving mouth; his eyes
were bright-blue, but stern.
He was dressed in grazier-
style, in sports-coat, riding-
breeches and polished tan
leggings.
Chanter wanted to admire
Jenkins’s crop, but Jenkins
wanted to start work.
George had never seen a
binder in operation before;
he laughed aloud when he saw
it tie its first sheaf of hay and
toss it out, but he laughed still
more when the binder, over-
taxed by the height and density
of the crop, broke the twine
and threw out half-a-dozen
sheaves untied. Jenkins frowned,
and set him to work tying the
broken sheaves by hand.
They had gone around the
paddock a few times when
Phyllis, the Land-girl, arrived
on her shiny, brown horse,
carrying the morning-tea. She
had left her hat at home, and
the sun shone on her hair; she
wore the usual khaki drill over-
alls, but a short-sleeved blouse
of some soft, light material
instead of the unromantic shirt.
She stared at the oats with cries
of admiration at the shades of
cream, green, mauve and fawn
blending in the stalks from the
heads to the base.
“Isn’t it just the loveliest thing
you’ve ever seen? Like a
beautiful, pale rainbow running
round the paddock.”
“Yes, it’s pretty,” George said,
and stared ardently at her.
After they had had their tea
Chanter went on cutting with
the binder, while Jenkins under-
took to instruct George and
Phyllis in the art of stooking.
They started off down the
paddock, their boots rattling
over the short, stiff stubble.
Phyllis’s dog frisked around
them.
TENKINS showed them how to
** make the first stook, as
precisely and as methodically as
the Army-instructors had been
showing George how to dis-
mantle and reassemble machine-
guns. They built a couple,
Jenkins standing by saying,
“That one here,” and “That one
there,” as George and Phyllis
brought each sheaf.
It wasn’t long before Jenkins
began to realise that things
were not going as they should.
He told them repeatedly to line-
up, across the paddock, and
along it, before starting a stook,
in order that all the stooks
should be in straight rows both
ways; but Phyllis and George
hardly ever remembered to do it,
and didn’t seem to think it
mattered.
They made dreadfully lop-
sided and unstable stooks.
They tried to catch the grass-
hoppers which always kept half
a leap ahead of them; they
made playful passes at the
butterflies which were coming
continually down the wind in
pairs, too preoccupied with the
fantastic aerobatics of courtship
to have due regard for their
safety. Before evening they;
were running hand in hand from
one stook to the next.
■VTEXT morning Jenkins kept
' close beside George, show-
ing him time- and effort-saving
methods of performing every
minute detail of stook-building.
But each time Jenkins relaxed
his vigilance for a moment,
George talked to Phyllis.
“Whaf about a picnic for
Sunday?” George suggested.
“I’ll get a bunch of my cobbers,
and you get some of your Land-
girls. We’ll go for a hike in the
hills and have a great time.” .
“That would be marvellous!”
But Jenkins interjected
discouragingly, “I should think,
after all the stooking, you’d be
glad to give your legs a rest on
Sunday.”
“Oh, they're not tired,” said
Phyllis, beginning some kind of
dance-step. George joined in,
and they pranced hand in hand
to the next stook, shepherding
Jenkins, who strode along with
sober gait.
“We’ll give our legs a rest on
Monday,” said George.
Both laughed heartily, eyeing
Jenkins.
But they didn’t forget
Jenkins’s warning about their
tired legs, and at various inter-
vals during the rest of the week
they would stagger from row to
row, clutching at each other and
calling out:
“Hold me up! Hold me up! ”
Somehow they finished the
job.
AT work again on Chanter’s
farm, sewing-up bags of
wheat his employer was harvest-
ing, George was astonishingly
lethargic; in the afternoons he
was apt to sit down and fall
asleep at every lull in the work.
Chanter suggested that farm-
work might be too heavy for
him.
But he discovered that George
was walking the three miles to
Jenkins’s place every night,
{Continued on next page)


CHATEAU TANUNDA
. 19
m
11
The Story of the Telegraph
The big increase in Melbourne’s population
following the discovery of gold was mainly
responsible for the opening of Australia’s first
telegraph line between Melbourne and Williams-
town in 1854.
This line was originally conceived as a private under-
taking. A pupil of Professor Morse, Mr. S. W. Me
Gowan had arrived in Victoria in 1853 with the
intention of forming a private company to build and
operate telegraph lines between Melbourne, Ballarat,
Bendigo, Sydney and Adelaide. He brought with him
all the material necessary for the project, but in the
course of his negotiations with the Victorian Govern-
ment, State officials decided that the Government
should act on its own account. In September, 1853,
the Government called for tenders for the construction
of a telegraph line between Melbourne and Williams-
town. McGowan was the man best-fitted for the task
and his tender was accepted.
Communication between the two places was
established in January, 1854, and after the line was
opened to the public on March 3, 1854, McGowan
was appointed general superintendent of telegraphs in
Victoria.
The next “official” line built in Australia connected
Adelaide and Port Adelaide. It was established in
February, 1856, but a little earlier a private line had
been built between the same centres and it was not
until the South Australian Government bought this
and pulled it down that the official line became
successful.
Tasmania was the next State in the field. In 1857
a line was established between Launceston and Hobart.
New South Wales’ first telegraph did not come into
operation until December 30, 1857—a link between
Sydney and South Head. In October, 1858, a tele-
graph line between Sydney and Albury was completed;
this linked up with a Victorian line from Melbourne.
N.S.W. next pushed ahead with a line to the north.
In November, 1861, the telegraph to Brisbane was
opened and the three capitals on the eastern coast were
linked.
To-day, there are nearly 10,000 telegraph offices in
Australia and more than 23,000,000 telegrams are
despatched every year.
Remember—Always keep a bottle in the house
CHATEAU TANUNOA
.offie c&tewidi/ c^££)t6tincfam,
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W,
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
coming home between one and
two in the morning. He
warned George that he was over-
doing it.
“I can’t help it,” George said,
“if I don’t go to see her I lie
awake thinking about her all
night. It’s the real thing this
time. Love everlasting.”
Chanter laughed. “Don’t be
too sure of it. You’re both very
young. You’d do better to get
some sleep.”
“It might be my last chance
of happiness,” said George,
making a sure appeal to
Chanter’s sympathy.
“Well, if you’re quite sure
she’s the right girl,” he said
uncertainly, “and that you’re
really in love” . . .
“It’s love everl a s t i n g,”
George repeated, with his eyes
turned in the direction of
Jenkins’s place.
After they had been harvest-
ing for little over a week
Jenkins came to ask for help
with his hay-carting.
Nevertheless he was full of
complaints about George.
“He’s over every night keeping
Phyllis out of bed, and she
moons about all day and does
the most damnable things, like
leaving gates open into the
mating-paddocks. She actually
mixed up my top stud-ewes with
a flock of fifth-rate flock-rams
that I’d drafted out to sell to
small farmers. If this thing
doesn’t end soon, I’ll go mad.”
The return to Jenkins’s place
had a most exhilarating effect
on George. He flung the
sheaves about with wild
abandon, many of them com-
pletely over the motor-lorry,
with no sign of regret for the
time lost in walking around and
pitching them up again ; then
when he was tossing the hay
down from the lorry on to the
stack he hit Jenkins with the
sheaves three times out of four
through keeping his eyes on
Phyllis instead of his job. He
broke a pitchfork -handle
(genuine American hickory, and
irreplaceable because of the war)
through trying to throw a sheaf
over a tree ; and he kept up an
incessant banter with Phyllis:
“When I first saw you I
thought you were terrible.”
“When did you change your
mind?”
“I haven’t changed my mind.”
“So you were telling lies last
night.”
“I didn’t tell lies last night.”
“So you have changed your
mind.”
It went round and round in
endless cycles, and while it
seemed completely senseless to
Jenkins, it nevertheless needed
so much concentration on
George’s part that he hardly
seemed to know whether he was
pitching the hay up on to the
lorry or down on to the begin-
nings of the stack.
“We’ll have to separate them,”
Jenkins said to Chanter before
the day was half done. “You
bring your lorry tomorrow and
we’ll work independently.”
TJUT the separation was not a
** success. George and
Phyllis spent so much time
waving and hallooing to each
other, and were so hard to part
when the two lorries happened
to meet at the stack, that the
next morning Jenkins sent
Phyllis to do other work at the
far end of his property, even
though it meant disrupting the
hay-carting.
George labored in stricken
silence all the forenoon, putting
such feeling into stabbing each
sheaf and flinging it away that
Jenkins congratulated him on
doing as much work as the two
of them usually did.
But the couple met at lunch,
and when it was time to start
work again they had disappeared.
It was an hour before Jenkins
discovered them lying side by
side on a heap of loose hay
behind the stack, sunk in an
Arcadian oblivion of place and
time. He got into an
exaggerated rage about it.
That afternoon George
muddled about so ineffectually
that Jenkins almost burnt
himself out.
In the evening Jenkins said to
Chanter, “You know, I think
I’ve had just about as much of
George’s help as I can stand.”
Chanter looked at him
shrewdly.
“What we need,” he said, with
a sly smile, “is two more nice,
fresh, young Land-girls like
Phyllis ; then we could all have
a good time.”
Jenkins flushed. “Don’t be a
fool, Chanter,” he said angrily.
When Chanter went to call
George next morning his room
was empty. No George, no
clothes, no message.
He went alone to Jenkins’s and
discovered that Phyllis had dis-
appeared, too.
But she had confided to Mrs.
Jenkins before leaving that she
and George were getting
married. “We’re going to snatch
what happiness we can before
George is sent overseas,” she’d
said. When George’s leave was
over she was prepared to come
back if Jenkins needed her
badly.
TENKINS was terribly
** depressed.
“Just had her trained to
understand my stud, and then
this had to happen. I’ll have to
get her back; I can’t run the
place without her. But I’m sure
she won’t be any use after this.”
He paused, thinking and
frowning for a minute.
“No, she won’t be much use
any more. I’ll bet she’ll want
to go and have a baby, just at
shearing-time when I heed her
most.”
He and Chanter went out to
the hay-paddock and spent the
day carting on their own. The
sheaves were tiringly heavy, and
the work intolerably tedious and
monotonous; they had never
worked so hard, yet they got
discouragingly little done. The
long rows of stooks which
remained were no longer a
glorious harvest, but an over-
whelming labor.
In the evening Chanter said,
“I don’t think I’ll come back
tomorrow. I’ve got my wheat-
harvesting to think about. I’m
sorry about the rest of your hay.
I don’t know what you’ll be able
to do about it.
Jenkins stared across the
paddock.
“Blast the hay,” he said
fiercely. “It can rot in the
paddock.”
THE UNRELIABLE MEN
Peer through the palisades
Of wage, home and children • • .
Forever outside roam
The unreliable men,
Whose eyes, sad and betrayed,
Bely bravado and swagger,
Whose gold is transitory
As alms of beggar.
Shifty their bitter hearts
Like salty sand,
Undignified age precedes
Unpitied end.
And yet, without them who
Would know honor is good ?
Their spurious beauty is dream
For tamer blood.
So, lest complacency
Mar truth and peace
The unreliable have
Strange fate and place.
W.A.
NANCY KEESING.
STATEMENT BY
ABLE-SEAMAN
JOSEPH PATRICK O'DOWL
Transcribed by H. C. Morton
WITH due respect to
everyone there’s a lot
more to this than
what’s already been
said, so here’s what happened.
We went ashore at Towns-
ville, and that you know, but
I’ve got to start somewhere, and
that’s where this whole business
began, so that will do.
There was O’Neill and
Simpson and, I think, Ferguson,
but it doesn’t matter because I
left them at the first corner
because women entered the con-
versation and I wouldn’t have
anything to do with the ones
they had in mind, not at that
price.
It was in the bar of the hotel
near the railway-station it
happened ; I’d been over at the
one across the road for an hour
before that, but that’s got nothing
to do with it, so forget all about
it. It was rum and beer-chasers
I was drinking all by myself,
though it was port-and-stout at
the other hotel, but that doesn’t
matter anyway, when I saw the
frog.
It was only a plain little
green frog, you understand, and
I’ve seen dozens of them around ;
they get in the sink at night, and
once in Brisbane I saw one all
boiled-up in an electric jug;
but this one’s just sitting there
on the bar at my elbow and I
wouldn’t have taken any notice
of it at all if it hadn’t piped up
and said, “I’ll have a rum and
beer-chaser,” as true as I’im
standing here.
■jVrOW this happening placed
me in an awful peculiar
predicament, me having had no
experience with talking green-
frogs, absolutely no experience
to speak of at all, so that I’ve
half a mind to pick it up and
fling it out into Flinders-street,
but then I had no way of telling
if that’s the right way to handle
talking green-frogs.
Anyway the long and short
of it is, while I’m staring down
at it, up it pipes again and says,
“I’ll have a rum and beer-chaser.”
Having a small streak of
curiosity and never having
witnessed the drinking of rum
and beer-chasers by talking
green-frogs, I advise the barmaid
of the lack and set up glasses in
front of the frog. It* soups up
the rum in three scoops by
hopping up on the rim of the
glass and dipping its head in.
The beer it handles very smartly
as well.
What is more amazing when
you get to figuring the size of
the frog and the capacity of
the glass and intake and outlet
and this and that, is the fact that
before the hour is gone the frog
is still there but five rums and
beer-chasers have gone; ten if
you’re counting me.
I won’t say we have started to.
arrive at being maudlin by this,
rum not fitting me that way, but
a bit sentimental we are, and
more so the little green frog.
“Take me back to the ship
with you when you go, ship-
mate,” he pleads. “Don’t leave
me here in the cold at the mercy
of such carpet-snakes as happen
along.”
Mind you, a ship, especially
one of Her Majesty’s, is no
place for a frog, talking or other-
wise, and this I tell it plainly.
But the rum has mellowed me,
you understand ; and when, as
the pub closes, the little green
frog says, “Aw, shipmate, put me
in your pocket and take me back
with you as far as the wharf,”
that’s just what I do ; and, any-
way, who can see the harm of
taking a frog to the wharf and
letting it go?
T>UT that’s just what I don’t
do, because when I pull it
out of my pocket just by the
gate its voice is so wistful when
it whimpers to me, “Aw, ship-
mate, take me on board just for
the night,” I can see no harm in
it at all. So that’s just what I do.
Now this is the most important
part, and there’s lies been told
about it before, so I’ll ask you
to follow it closely.
When I get to my cabin the
little green frog sits on the chair
by my bed and looks up at me
with those big googly eyes.
“Shipmate,” it says, “put me
in your bed and draw up the
sheets all around me.”.
Well, it’s not so very much to
ask, so that’s just what I do.
And then the little green frog
looks up at me again, but this
time from the bed.
“Oh, thank you, thank you!”
it says. “You don’t know what
you’ve done for me, oh, truly
you don’t.”
And the little green frog
weeps a tear, and then speaks
again.
“Years ago,” it says, “or better
still, once upon a time, I was
a beautiful maiden until a wicked
fairy came along and turned me
into a frog. And the only way
the spell could be broken was for
a handsome sailor to buy me
rum and beer-chasers in a hotel,
then carry me back to his ship
and put me between the sheets
of his bed. And you’ve done it,
you’ve done it, I’ve waited so
long and at last it’s been done! ”
Then before my eyes the little
green frog turns into a beautiful
maiden, blushing modestly under
the sheets because that was all
that there seemed to be cover-
ing her.
WELL, that’s my story,
Gentlemen of the Court
Martial, and every word of it is
true.
END OF STATEMENT BY ABLE-SEAMAN
JOSEPH PATRICK O’DOWL


m
WARWICK
PRESBYTERIAN
SCHOOLS
o
Rolls now open for boarders
for 1957 ..,
AT THE SCOTS COLLEGE, boys
from 6 years of age up to
University Matriculation en-
rolled. Full schooling in
Academic, Commercial,
Manual Training Courses.
Principal: Mr. A. W. Briggs,
B.A.
AT THE PRESBYTERIAN GIRLS*
college, thorough education
from Preparatory Grade to
University Matriculation,
Full Academic, Commercial,
Domestic Science Courses.
Principal: Miss V. M. B.
Twiss, M.A.
First Term commences: 29th January, 1957
Fees for Senior Boarders for 1957: £BB per term
WRITE TODAY FOR PROSPECTUS, TO:
The Principal
The Scots College
WARWICK, Q’LD.
The Principal
The Presbvterian Girls
College, WARWICK, Q'LB.
GUARD
filthy ci/
PROTECTA
Rigiiiuitiu?
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.LtdL
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH »
W. C. Penfold & Co, Pty. Ltd,
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd,
Vardon Price Ltd.
, Docket Book Co. tAust.)
Your OWN drain Storage!
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
AND AUGERS
SILOS
• Heavy gauge galvanised sheet*
• Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
• Steel earth rings and loading plat*
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
• Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
• Segmented con-
struction for easy
assembly
• Unique vertical
filling avoids
congestion
• Vertical sets
complete with
wall brackets,
chute tubes,
etc.
.. - ....
•• ■■•■■■■ %
rnmmwmss
augers- Suitable
types of Augers to
meet all needs are
available at attractive
prices.
WHITE for further in-
formatin and Agents'
Names to Dept. No.gj.
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
200 Bushel Silo £4B
250
500
1,000
2,000
2,000
3,000
(Elevated.
£94
£BO
£l3B
£2ll
£2ll
£275
(Squat)
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght I Australia I Pty. Ltd. la
all Capital Cities.
SSA2/56
Canton Surgeon
DOCTOR OF THE FONG BIN
By W. J. DUNCAN
THE Fong Bin, in Canton,
China, had been estab-
lished as a charitable insti-
tutjpn, to provide hospital-
services for the many who were
unable to pay the charges of
other hospitals.
An old temple was taken over
and converted into wards, and
a staff of doctors and nurses
provided.
But with the passage of time
and the chronic lack of municipal
funds, charity soured. Only as
a face-saving burden was the
hospital maintained. The staff
were on meagre salaries, and the
services were so inadequate that
a seriously-ill case had little
chance of recovery. It became
the custom among the poorer
classes to send to the Fong Bin
only those who were sure to die
anyway, thereby saving on
medical expenses, and Fong Bin
became a one-way-traffic lane to
the grave.
To this Stygian shore came in
1946 a Norwegian doctor work-
ing on the Unrra medical-
programme ; he later transferred
(in 1947) to the World Health
Organisation.
Dr. Voldarsky was a skilled
surgeon, vitally interested in the
welfare of humanity regardless
of race, class or politics. He was
a tall, slightly stooped man in the
fifties, greying and rather bald.
A large, inquisitorial nose thrust
out between kindly grey eyes.
He was genial and humorous
in company and slow to anger.
He drank little, but was a heavy
smoker, and, even in the
operating-theatre, there was
usually a lighted cigarette some-
where handy for a quick puff.
He dressed neatly, and, work-
ing in squalid conditions, he was
more likely to be in his best suit
than in old clothes. Money to
him was merely a commodity
needed for hospital-maintenance,
like drugs and instruments; for
himself it had little value. He
was entirely unselfconscious.
During the anti-British riots of
1948, when other foreigners
deemed it prudent to remain
indoors, he went about the city
as usual. It would never have
occurred to him that there was
any risk other than that of mov-
ing against the current, like a
man wading through a flooded
stream.
But the appalling conditions in
the Fong Bin roused his anger;
he was shocked at the placidly
accepted opinion that, with the
poor, serious illness was prac-
tically a death-sentence. Dis-
regarding official apathy, he set
out to provide in the Fong Bin
the best of medical attention,
whether the patients could pay
for it or not; and so dedicated
did he become that he refused
offers of good appointments
elsewhere.
It was the Unrra principle that
Chinese institutions were con-
trolled by Chinese. That did not
bother Dr. Voldarsky. Quietly,
he took charge of the Fong Bin,
and the staff became his loyal
supporters.
His first task was to make the
best use of existing facilities.
Lack of beds was a problem.
Charity had not been too par-
ticular in this matter. It was the
practice to put two patients in a
single bed, lying head to foot.
After all, hygiene and risk of
contamination were minor con-
siderations when the patients
were merely waiting for Death
to take them off.
At first, because it was not in
him to turn away a sick person,
Dr. Voldarsky had to accept this
crowding until he could get more
beds, for which he begged,
borrowed and scrounged all
around Canton.
In order to relieve the pressure,
he started mobile clinics, treating
patients at their homes. Unrra
helped as far as its resources
allowed, providing beds and
equipment, food and funds for
working-expenses.
Dr. Voldarsky steadily
improved the hospital-services
and raised nursing-standards.
The Fong Bin became a two-way
traffic, with more and more walk-
ing back through the gates to
Life.
A sick person had a better
chance of recovery in the Fong
Bin than at home, and at little
or no cost to the family. As
this knowledge spread round
Canton, the number of patients
increased rapidly, and the
hospital - accommodation was
overtaxed all the time.
To the poor of Canton Dr.
Voldarsky became a venerable
person. His influence over them
was remarkable. During Jiis
rounds of the wards eyes
brightened and even the very
sick tried to raise a smile. Their
faith in him was unqualified. A
Chinese surgeon would not
operate on a patient, even in dire
necessity, without the written
approval of the relatives, because,
in the event of death, the relatives
could sue for, and probably get,
compensation. Voldarsky acted
as he deemed necessary, and,
even though the patient died,
none of the relatives disputed his
decision. But the only patients
who died were those whom even
medical skill and efficient nursing
could not save.
He once operated on a baby.
The baby collapsed under the
anaesthetic and almost died, but
he worked on it for hours until
it recovered. Outside, all this
time, the parents, miserably
poor, waited anxiously, but with
sublime faith in the foreign
doctor. What the future held
for the child of such destitute
people one can only guess, but
in Voldar sky’s creed every
human was entitled to his chance
in life.
His operating-theatre was just
a cubicle in the old temple. The
light was daylight or the
unpredictable electric-supply of
Canton, with an oil-lamp for
emergency.
The equipment was inadequate
for a long time, until more
supplies were received from
Unrra. With all these handicaps,
the number of successful opera-
tions carried out were note-
worthy. The Mayor of Canton
was once taken there to see an
operation; he fainted, but
whether from the sight of the
crude surroundings or the
mingled smell of ether and illness
is not known.
When Unrra ended late in 1947
the services at the Fong Bin had
greatly improved, but as a
hospital it was still far from the
standard aimed at by Voldarsky.
The old temple which was the
main hospital-building was in a
hollow liable to be flooded after
heavy rain by run-off water from
surrounding districts. A
drainage-system was urgently
needed, but such a proposal
called for the approval of the
municipal authorities and more
expenditure of municipal funds.
Again, the walls of some of the
wards were stopped from col-
lapsing by wooden struts holding
them up. And the vexed problem
of overcrowding had yet to be
solved.
In spite of the services he had
given the people, it is doubtful
whether Voldarsky, unaided,
would have gained the support
of the Canton authorities. After
Unrra, aid to China was con-
tinued by the United States
Economic Co-operation Adminis-
tration, and the American who
had been in charge of the Unrra
office carried on under the new
administration. It was this man’s
wholehearted support and his
influence with the Chinese that
won official approval for the
Fong Bin scheme.
Money was needed, and plenty
of it, for the ambitious project of
giving the Fong Bin modern
hospital-buildings and equip-
ment. E.C.A. was ready to
grant funds provided an
equivalent amount was sub-
scribed by the Chinese. This
should have been the responsi-
bility of the Municipal Govern-
ment, but it never seemed to have
any money to spare. And there
was little hope of the Municipal
Government raising funds for a
charity, because no Chinese will
ever willingly give money to a
Government.
The slender chance of raising
money was in the fact that all
funds subscribed for the hospital
would be administered by the
E.C.A. office, and therefore
unlikely to be subject to
corruption.
So Voldarsky, in addition to
his hospital duties, had to take
on the function of an appeal-
organiser.
For most people this would
have been a disheartening task.
Under the old family-system, the
charitable instincts of the average
Chinese are restricted to the
family-circle-—they are mostly
indifferent to the welfare of
others. In many countries there
are the very wealthy who give
largely to charity, but few
Chinese millionaires suffer the
pricks of conscience or other urge
to give away money.
None of this deterred him.
Far from being money-minded
himself, he went out after the
wealthy Chinese with all the per-
sistence of a professional beggar.
Indeed it is doubtful whether
the professional beggars of
Canton could have taught him
much when it came to getting
money for his hospital. No
Chinese, high or low, was
immune from his appeal, nor
were foreigners exempted.
From Canton he went to Hong
Kong, and later as far as
Bangkok. He lectured to groups
of businessmen. He showed them
photographs of the stark condi-
tions in the Fong Bin. Often
enough the blind was pulled
down on him, but it was astonish-
ing how often he managed to
get beyond the curtains.
His sincerity and persistence
brought results. Early in 1949
enough funds had been sub-
scribed to start building. The
first project was an up-to-date
maternity-wing. This was
finished about May, and, to
further his campaign for funds,
Voldarsky dragged in visitors,
willing or not, to inspect the
wards. In his enthusiasm he took
the visitors everywhere regardless
of what was going on at the
time. One American, a shy
bachelor, was horrified to find
himself in the labor-ward receiv-
ing an all-too-visible demonstra-
tion of the ward’s role.
Before such enthusiasm
opposition crumbles, and more
and more contributions came to
the building-fund.
Meanwhile, the American
director and the Mayor of
Canton, in a joint ceremony, laid
the foundation-stones of a six-
story general-hospital block, and
the work was proceeding rapidly.
With the completion and furnish-
ing of this block there would be
an end to the old two-in-a-bed
system. There would be an out-
patients’ department, and no
more would the sick have to sit
or lie wherever they could find
a few inches of space. There
would be administrative offices,
and good staff-quarters. There
would also be a modern, well-
equipped operating-theatre.
In October, 1949, the work
was finished. The Fong Bin
would become the best hospital
in Canton, where the poor, with
or without payment, would get
hospital-treatment every bit as
good as the wealthy classes could
command. The dreams of Dr.
Voldarsky had become a solid
reality. For all people interested
in, and subscribing to, assistance
for the underprivileged of the
world, Fong Bin Hospital was a
praiseworthy achievement.
It was never used for the
purpose intended.
In October the Chinese Com-
munists took over Canton. Took
over, too, the splendid new build-
ings and facilities of the Fong
Bin. Dr. Voldarsky was not per-
mitted to work there any more.
For several months he tried to
continue his ministrations to the
poor, but before long he was
squeezed out. Like a fan in
autumn when the summer heat
has passed, he was not wanted.
And why? Because, by official
decree of the new regime (he was
told), there were no longer any
poor people in China.


White Heat
By A. M. HARRIS
AS the big tank trundled
along the road from
Pyongyang, dark and
dusty in the thin sunlight
of the late Korean autumn, the
men crouching precariously on
its superstructure rolled and
pitched with its motion.
Jim Mitchell, hanging on with
one hand, his thigh pressed
hard against the riveted turret,
felt his stomach muscles stretch
with excitement. A mile or so
back along the road they had
heard, as though someone tat-
tatted with a hammer on the
steel shell which bore them, a
short burst of firing, and for a
couple of minutes he had been
wondering where it might be,
and whose.
He moved his feet to ease the
nervous tension which had sped
down the Calves of his legs. He
looked over to the man who was
sitting on his left, and their
glances locked for a brief instant.
Big Frank gave a weak grin and
self-consciously rubbed the old
healed scar-tissue above his left
eye: a sure sign that something
was on his mind. Mitchell
leaned across, shouting above the
roar of the engine beneath him.
“Packing ’em, china?” he
asked with a grin.
“Yeah,” Frank’s voice
rumbled from deep in his chest.
“When the bell rings I’ll be
right, though.”
As he spoke he snatched his
hand away from the scar-tissue
which had broken his thick black
eyebrow in the centre and had
forced it into a high peak, giving
a half-quizzical expression to his
face. Mitchell wondered if just
one punch had done the damage,
or if all the punches taken during
years of fighting in the tents had
helped to give that odd look to
the eye. Frank had stayed in the
tents too long. At times he
appeared a bit punchy: until
emergency, when he heard his
bell ring and became a different
man.
Mitchell looked away and
down at the ground ; the heavy
tank was churning up the
distance as it tore slabs from
a road already stiffening under
the insinuation of approaching
winter. The steel tracks threw
the dirt into a lumpy brown wake
behind, and he remembered that
when six weeks ago the battalion
had sailed from Kure he had
watched how the water spread
a ruffled pattern of white ribbons
behind the ship; how the white
had foamed thick near the
wharf, then stretched out,
thinning, as the ship moved
away. Then the ribbons broke,
and there was no more contact
with the shore. It had seemed so
final, that breaking.
VET they had broken away
-*• into nothing. The battalion
arrived at Pusan, grouped there
and headed north, looking, it
was said, for fight. But they
merely followed where others
had led, and no flight of fancy
could add much lustre to the
days when, cloaked in dust, the
convoys ploughed along
mountain roads or waited
patiently in secluded valleys for
others to pass them. Each day
the same: the same sour sweat,
the same dust, and the same
vague speculation over what was
happening up ahead, and how
far ahead it was happening.
Mitchell had often found
himself wondering what he was
doing in Korea, anyway. All the
Americans they had met said
that the war was over and they
derisively thanked the Aus-
tralians for coming over to take
up occupation-duties so that the
fighting-men might go home :
spoils to the victor, they said.
Mitchell, along with others in
the battalion, had listened when
the reward was worth it; the
reward of scalding black coffee,
and sweet, loosely - rolled
“Luckies,” even at times a tin
of meat-loaf. They listened, and
secretly they worried. They began
to fear that they had been
brought over only to act as
occupation-troops in this long,
dirty peninsula which seemed
carved of solid rock, where the
mountains scaled up and up
from their wooded foothills like
row after row of chipped-stone
arrowheads.
Trundling along at the rear,
grimy and discontented, they felt
worse than fools when Korean
farmers, and their wives and
children, stood beside smashed
homes and burnt paddy-fields to
wave their “liberators” on. It
made them feel guilty; they
were being given credit that
belonged to others. And they
wanted no part of a reflected
glory.
Mitchell had been thinking
about the situation as the tank
ground along the road, flinging
the ravaged countryside behind
it, almost viciously, as it went.
A day before, their position in
the column had been altered. For
the first time they were in the
lead, and for the first time they
knew where they were going.
Some miles ahead an American
paratroop-battalion had been
dropped in the path of the flee-
ing North Koreans in an
attempt to cut the escape-route.
The Yanks had bitten off more
than they could chew, and the
Australians were going to their
assistance. Soon the battalion
would know what it was like —
those of them who had not
already been blooded in New
Guinea or in the Middle East.
The battalion had never been in
action as a unit —they had every-
thing but that , spirit which only
action can give—and every man
waited his chance now, to blood
the battalion and give it a fight-
ing name. They would be —
Mitchell smiled grimly as he
recalled a phrase he had read
or heard somewhere —tempered
in the white-hot crucible of war.
“What’s so funny?” Frank
shouted, above the pounding of
the engines.
“I was thinking of the white-
hot crucible of war!” Mitchell
shouted back, and grinned.
“White-hot ! ” Frank com-
mented lewdly. “You won’t have
time to wonder much longer!”
True enough, Mitchell thought.
We must be almost there.
Yesterday they had roared
through Sariwon and along the
river, where the willows were
bunched in dust-greyed shadow,
and they knew that somewhere
up ahead along the road the
Yanks had intended to stop the
enemy’s flight. They had
apparently been badly cut about,
but they were still holding out
—at least, they had been, last
night. Mitchell remembered the
burst of firing a while ago, and
wondered if they were still at it.
As though in answer to his
speculation, he heard again,
above the rumble of the tank,
the sound of gunfire. It carried
no more menace there than the
pattering of hailstones against a
window-pane, but he knew
what it would mean to the men
trapped in its fury.
He looked over the turret of
the tank; up ahead the road
curved sharply. They drew
nearer and nearer to the curve
and suddenly they were around
it —and into the fight.
THE North Koreans were in
full view. They had their
backs to the approaching
column and were concentrating
along the road and in the apple-
orchard on either side of it,
apparently to assault a high
feature which straddled the road
about a mile-and-a-half ahead.
An ideal place, Mitchell
thought automatically, to cut an
enemy withdrawing along the
road. But the Yanks must be
in a bad way to let them form-
up almost in full view and not
be able to do anything about it.
As the thoughts skittered
through his mind, the tank
halted, rocking slightly. He and
the men on it sprang to the
ground, taking cover behind its
bulk. Mitchell heard its big
cannon roar, and saw a grey
puff as its shell hit high upon
a hill to the left. He felt a
shock of surprise as a group of
men ran from the area of the hit
and disappeared over a green
ridge.
Someone started to fire at
them from alongside the tank.
Mitchell cursed at the stupidity
of wasting bullets on a running
target a thousand yards away,
and pointed to two dry ditches
beside the road.
The men around the tank with
him jumped into them. The
commanders of the two sections
in the rear came running up.
They crouched behind the tank
with Mitchell and Big Frank
and looked at the ground they
would have to fight over to get
to the hill.
On the left of the road the
frost was glittering white and
cold in the bowls of terraced
paddy-fields, a square pattern
in the shadow of the hills
which lay smoke-blue in the
distance. On the right an apple-
orchard was still heavy with
fruit; it bad been built on a
low flat elevation which rose
sharply for about fifteen feet
above the road before it levelled
off into a small plateau ; and the
long streamers of a flail-swept
sky brooded over the whole
sombre landscape.
Only one half of Mitchell’s
mind saw the beauty of the
scene; the other was busy
assessing it as a probable battle-
ground, not for the movement
of armor and battalions of men,
but for the small, personal con-
flicts which would inevitably
develop, perhaps within
minutes.
The four watching men
bunched closer to the tank a s its
big gun roared again and its
Browning snarled. The attack
from the rear must have come
as a complete shock to the
Koreans, for suddenly the paddy-
fields were alive with grey-clad
figures streaming away from the
hill they had been about to
attack.
The men lying in the ditch saw
them and started firing. The
Brens in each section chattered
wildly, and Mitchell grinned
when he heard a shrill Indian
war-cry; one of the Bren-
gunners had vowed all along that
he would give the cry as soon
as he saw someone fit to scalp.
HERE the American tank-
commander threw the cover
of the tank-turret hack with a
clang. He tore off his earphones
and spoke to Mitchell.
“We’re gonna link up with our
boys. They’re up on the hill
all right. We’re gonna clear the
road. Your ‘Able’ company’s
going right, over the paddies.”
He pointed to where the
Koreans were still fleeing.
“ ‘Baker’ company’s going
through the apple-orchard, and
we’re gonna clear the road.” He
grinned happily. “Let’s make it
quick so we can get to our
boys. They’re in a real bad way,
O.K.?”
(Continued on page 32)


Animalistic Encounters
They AH Made Headlines
By C. McNEIL
MOST newspaper reporters
find, in dealing with all
manner of people and
things, that a marked
difference between humans and
animals is that animals—pets or
pests—are nearly always honest.
And animals, if they do have
an axe to grind, don’t tell you
about it. They don’t seem to
have any politics, bias or corrupt-
ness, and are therefore fairly
straightforward to deal with.
They can’t talk, you can’t quote
them, and they can’t claim you
have misquoted them. They
usually make “good copy,” and
are photogenic, too. Some of
them are nuisances, but that only
enhances their news-value.
These remarks apply to insects,
birds, fish and so forth, and
bracketing them all as “animals”
steers clear of Latin, or worse.
There follow some accounts of
animals one reporter dealt with.
They range from tiny creepers
that were a £ 1-million economic
problem to a large prehistoric
old customer who came up out
of the sea. All of them made
news in their way.
Argentine Ants
TTHINGS are a good deal better
A now, but back in 1952 these,
little brown nuisances were being
hotly debated in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly.
An Argentine-ant is only one-
tenth of an inch long, but the
then Mayor of Auburn, a far-
western Sydney suburb, Aider-
man F. Chadwick, went on
record that the ants would be a
£ 1-million problem if the State
Government did not buck in and
help destroy them.
It did, and they weren’t. But
the ants still exist in diminishing
colonies in south and western
suburbs, just waiting for the
chance to thrive again. In fact,
the State Government has a
standing reward on offer for
anyone who finds a new
infestation.
They are dusty-looking little
brown ants, differing from other
ants in that they never pause
when moving along. They can
bear extremes of hot and cold.
They can live comfortably in a
refrigerator, and relish a fridge’s
cork insulation.
A colony of them can every
year double the area it infests.
They will eat any type of
food; it’s maybe a slight exag-
geration that they can eat the
mortar between bricks. They can
make their way into a screw-top
jar which has a vacuum-seal
below the screw-top.
One ant Will walk around the
thread of the screw-top and
inspect the rubber vacuum-seal
until he finds a flaw. He will
attack it, eat his way through
the rubber, and then the others
will follow the trail he has
blazed.
Back in 1952 the ants were
spreading quickly through
Sydney’s Auburn, Alexandria,
Botany, Randwick, Beaconsfield
and Miller’s Point. There were
none—and still are none—on the
north side of the Harbor.
After a lot of pleading for
help, Mayor Chadwick thumped
a trump down on the table. He
said that by merely crossing
Parramatta-road, Argentine-ants
could infest the State abattoirs
at Homebush in the 1952-53
summer months.
The meat-people were already
worried and employing pickets
of pest-exterminators to warn if
the ants’ scouts were sighted.
Within a month State help
was promised and spraying-teams
were on the job around Auburn,
laying down barriers of
chlordane, an American prepara-
tion fatal to the ants.
When the teams had painstak-
ingly ringed an area, they began
criss-crossing it. They put down
chlordane barriers around each
house, and the spray was still
killing ants six months later.
People who had had to eat
with the table-legs in tins of
water to keep the ants out of
their dinner began to relax and
lose their indigestion.
About a year later Mayor
Chadwick reported that there
was not an ant in the 600 acres
sprayed. The council's half of
the bill had been £3600 and the
State Government had paid the
rest.
Argentine-ants had been good
newspaper-copy for months. At
one stage, when the ants were
doing damage and evoking
oratory up in Macquarie-street,
and there were fears that they
might invade the north side of
the Harbor, a reporter jokingly
made a suggestion.
He suggested: “This’d make a
good picture. What about get-
ting a jarful of Argentine-ants
and sprinkling them along the
hand-rail on the Harbor Bridge,
heading north? Controversial
shot?”
Well, it sure would be news,
and it sure would be con-
troversial, and the executive
seemed to look thoughtful for a
time Then he muttered, “Don’t
you dare,” and hurried off to the
news-conference.
Good Tucker
'T'HE North Shore line had this
lot on its own.
All the way from Hornsby
down to Chatswood the evening
air was swarming with moths.
They were about one-inch long.
Their wings were light-brown
underneath and dark-brown on
top. They got in your hair.
Switchboards at the morning-
newspapers were jammed with
people wanting to know what
the blazes the moths portended.
One reporter phoned a leading
entomologist, and it happened
that this man lived up the north
line and had one of the moths
walking up the wall near his
phone. He was able to identify
it and tell the reporter something
about it.
They were bogong-moths, he
said, brought out in numbers by
successive hot days. They
developed from the cutworm, a
creature loathed by backyard
vegie - growers and orchid-
fanciers alike.
They came in minor plagues
every few years; the best on
record was back in 1867.
The moths that year turned-
up in force at a service in St.
Thomas’s, North Sydney. So
many of them s.ettled on the
church windows that they pro-
vided what was probably
Sydney’s first blackout. The
clergyman gave the sermon away,
and he and his flock went out of
doors for some light.
Earlier than that the moth-
plagues were known. Tribes of
aborigines used to gather at
likely times on the heights
around Sydney Harbor.
They would collect the moths
clustered thick among the rocks,
treat them with fire to get rid of
the wings and scales and then
pound them into a paste and
smack their lips as they downed
it.
This recipe was passed on to
the North Shore dwellers. The
result is unknown, but the moth-
plague soon ended.
Cats in the Choir
T\7HEN the bogong - moths
’ * invaded St. Thomas’s, they
did it off their own bat, and the
visit was quite unexpected by the
clergyman.
Sometimes, though, near
Christmas, churches- invite little
people to bring their pets along.
The basic idea seems to be that
the animals in the Manger were
among the first to see the infant
Christ.
So a couple of days before a
fairly recent Christmas the word
went out from St. Mark s,
Granvdie for aH who had pets
to bring them along.
A quick count of the resulting
congregation included a chicken,
rabbits, dogs, cats, a tortoise, a
large number of cicadas and a
crow
The oddest thing about the
service was that it went off with
hardly a peep from the animals.
The dogs did not bark at the
cats, and the rabbits seemed
untroubled by either. And if
the cicadas sang now and then,
well, the people were singing, too.
. .
New Mice
SOMEONE had dreamed-up a
really startling exhibit for the
annual Health Week show at the
Town Hall. Rats were the motif.
They wanted to show the way
rats like to play on rubbish and
then in a nice clean kitchen,
bringing germs in with them.
But it would not do, if the
exhibit was to tell its message, to
have a number of rats wandering
around aimlessly. These
rats would have to be
trained to play in a fake
garbage-tin and then
make a beeline for some
food exhibits.
The experts, when they
heard the plan, said
“Ratsr
Rats, they said, were
too savage to train for
the role. About the only
things that resembled rats
in any way and could be
trained were white mice.
Someone went one
better. What about scal-
ing the exhibit’s kitchen
down so that one of
chairs would be to a white mouse
as a normal kitchen-chair would
be to a rat? And couldn’t they
get hold of some off-white mice
which would more closely
resemble rats? They put it up
to the University.
The City Health Officer, Mr.
Fegan, was able to announce at
last that the University had
indeed evolved a new form of
white mice which looked exactly
like scale-model rats.
After some field exercises and
study at the University, the new
mice were even able to open the
miniature doors in the little
kitchen’s cupboards.
Fish Pictures
A NGLERS, it seems, have the
** same trouble the world over
—people won’t believe them.
With a camera and tape-measure
the modern Western angler can
back up his word of mouth with
some evidence, but even then,
sometimes, he is accused of
retouching his photos,
The j apanese angler found a
f oc ,Xp roo f answer to this one
cen £ ries ago . H e worked out a
way o£ making a life-sized
picture G f his fish, without a
camera or other device which
cou ld he rieeed
D . _ , ’ ~ „ . ,
Briefly, he used the fish itself
as a . printing block. The only
sus P lclous dnng about the
P racti ce was its name Gyo
1 du-
After he had taken a print
from the fish, the Nip angler ate
him, and still had the evidence to
pin-up on the wall.
The process was fairly simple.
He washed the fish carefully and
dried it. Then he pinned it out,
naturally extending the fins as far
as possible, and brushed Indian
mk over the u PPer side.
He then spread tissue-paper
over the fish and pressed it down
firmly all over. He took the
paper off, painted-in the pupil
of the fish’s eye, and had a job
that looked for all the world like
a woodcut.
Chimp
"pEDRO was looking thought-
fully at an ant walking across
the ground near his feet. He was
in quod. He and his owners,
Hungarian entertainers, had
struck the quarantine-rule when
they landed in Sydney.
Pedro had to go to an
enclosure at the Zoo for the
necessary 30 days. Because they
did not want him to fret, his
owners went with him.
Pedro looked up from the ant
and saw the reporter and photo-
grapher approaching with
caution.
He bared his teeth, but it was
his smile. He gave the photo-
grapher an opportunity to get
him fullface and profile, and then
got up and walked towards the
reporter.
The chimp put out his right
hand, took the reporter’s and
shook it firmly. He watched
the reporter taking notes, and
then borrowed his pencil and
tried to do the same.
Then he went into parts of his
act. He donned a ballet outfit
and made like Nijinsky. He put
on some glasses and a pipe and
was a nuclear physicist.
When the time came for part-
ing he pulled the reporter down
to his own height and kissed him
on both cheeks like a French
general.
Old Leathery
nrHE luth made a bad blunder
when he came up out of his
prehistoric life in the gloom of
the sea to look around on the
surface one sparkling Sunday.
The reporter who saw him
eventually could not help feeling
sorry for him.
He was a genuine antique and
quite rare, though at 4501 b. he
was not full-sized for a luth —it
seems they can weigh a ton.
One of the turtle family, and
sometimes called the leathery
turtle, he can grow up to 9ft.
long.
This one never got beyond his
sft. length because of what
happened when he surfaced.
He had picked a spot 25 miles
off Coogee to do it, a place where
by the greatest stretch of a luth’s
imagination nothing untoward
would happen.
But it did. Old leathery came
up right under a set trap-line and
got himself enmeshed in one of
Sie buoy-lines.
With his jet-black back and
black-and-white tummy he made
a weird sight out there on top of
the sea. Some shark-hunting big-
game fishermen spotted him and
circled him, trying to make him
out.
They still had not come to the
answer when the professional
fisherman who owned the trap-
line arrived in his boat.
He had never seen a luth
before, and he untangled it
(defunct by now) and gave it to
the big-game men so they could
get it identified.
He was identified by experts,
and his picture appeared in the
press, but that did not do him
vr-fich good.


grandfather Tiger
By MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH
Grandfather Tiger
was a secret and he
lived at the bottom of
the garden. He was
Joti’s tiger and no one else in
the world dreamt of him.
She found him there by the
river after Grandfather died.
Wonderful Grandfather that you
could talk to had died and left
Joti with no one to tell how she
missed him —only the Tiger.
She had found him when she
was crying by the river. She
had looked up and there he was,
terrible and beautiful, like the
gold-silk tiger on the cushion in
the room that used to be Grand-
father’s.
The Tiger’s voice was growly
and kind, the voice of Grand-
father. And Joti told him
everything.
So this day she ran down the
yard that, until this day, had
been almost her only world.
She ran as fast as she could, her
bare feet hardly touching the
ground, to tell Grandfather
Tiger her great news. He was
there, the way he always was
now, behind the clump of
lantana, on a grassy bank at
the river’s edge.
She made the Hindu sign of
greeting, joining her hands
gently before her face.
“Salaam, Tiger Sahib,” she
said. “I am going to school.”
“Salaam,” said the Tiger.
“You have everything to learn.”
“And I will wear a dress, like
the other girls. I will be the
same.”
The Tiger swished his tail and
smiled, very tired. “A dress
cannot make you the same,” he
said. “It will only be pretend-'
ing.”
Joti looked at him, scared.
Grandfather had once said
something like that.
“Will school not be good?”
she asked in a little voice.
“Perhaps,” said the Tiger.
“Perhaps there will be friends
there.”
“Friends!” said Joti.
“Friends! ”
She smiled, danced two steps,
salaamed and hurried back to
the house where her mother
was calling her to dinner.
'T'HEIR home was in the
suburbs. Joti’s father, Raj,
went every day into the city to
his work, like any father in the
suburbs. Her mother stayed
home with the children, and
sometimes took Joti with her
up to the shops, like any mother
in the suburbs. And their
house was like all the houses in
their bushy suburb.
The house was the same but
the home was different because
Joti’s parents kept the customs
of their people. They took off
their shoes before entering the
house. They decorated the
garden path for the Hindu
festivals. They cooked curry
and rice and chupatties. The
friends who came there for
dinner sat on the floor and felt
at home.
Dinner was always a formal
affair and the children never sat
down to it with the grown-ups.
Joti, who was the eldest, stood
near the table and passed what-
ever was required. She had to
be quick enough to do this
before she was asked, and polite
enough never to seem in the
way. But this night she made
mistakes. She could think of
nothing but school.
“The little one is going to
school tomorrow,” said Raj, her
father, to excuse her. “She can
think of nothing else.”
Old Ram-Sukal, the guest of
the evening, smiled at Joti.
“You are going to become a
clever lady, like your mother,”
he said.
Everyone laughed but Grand-
mother. “Oh, it is not right for
her to go,” she said. “It is not
right! She will learn the white
people’s ways and think we are
ignorant. She will call me
stupid.”
“No, Mother, no,” said Raj.
“My children must learn to live
here. They cannot stay in the
house always. They must learn
all they can. Then they can go
to India and teach what they
know.”
“They have never known
India,” said Ram-Sukal. “They
may not wish to go.”
“But now that India is free,”
said Raj, “there is so much to be
done. Schools to be built,
hospitals and people to run
them. India will be great again.”
“I thought,” said Ram-Sukal,
“that you were an Australian.”
“I am. I was born here,” said
Raj. “But my people”
“Your people,” said Ram-
Sukal. “I have been back and I
have seen your people. There
is a line through your father’s
village. Who are your people?
Are you Indian or Pakistani?
They will kill you if you do not
know.”
“Old friend,” said Raj, shame-
faced, “old friend, you are
always right and always wise.
But what are we to do? I
belong here. I am Australian,
but who will believe me? My
skin, my face, my thinking con-
tradicts me, and who will accept
me —or my children?” He
looked at Joti.
“Accept you!” said Grand-
mother. “You talk like a child.
It is you that must accept.
Can’t you understand?” She
looked around at them all. Do
not let us part, she thought.
Do not let us part.
■jVTEXT morning was first-day-
at-school morning, and Joti
put on her white-girl’s dress.
She fixed it in front of the
mirror and hurried downstairs
to show it and to get Grand-
mother to plait her hair.
The family looked at her
doubtfully.
Her arms and legs are so
thin, thought her mother.
She looks ridiculous, thought
Grandmother.
“I look beautiful,” said Joti.
And she smiled.
She went to school alone
because she insisted, and Miss
Adams, the teacher, was there
on the veranda looking out for
her.
“Hullo, Josie,” she said.
She had thought about this
new girl, off and on, ever since
she had interviewed her mother.
She was a difficult case and her
enrolment-card was going to
be a worry. The cards had a
space to tick for Australian and
another space to tick for New
Australian. What was to be
done with a dark-faced Indian
child who was a second-
generation Australian?
“Come in, dear,” said Miss
Adams. “You had better sit
there.” She pointed to an
empty desk.
Joti sat in it. On the side
nearest the window. Suddenly
she felt a sharp poke in the
back.
“That’s where Dorothy sits,”
said a red-headed girl from the
desk behind her. “You have
to sit on the other side.”
Joti wriggled across. “I’m
sorry, I am sorry,” she said.
But the two girls behind
didn’t hear her. They went on
whispering between themselves.
And all day, whenever Miss
Adams spoke to Joti, she called
her Josie.
At playtime no one spoke to
Joti, though they kept looking
at her and giggling.
At lunch-time they were
bolder. One of them spoke to
Joti and the others laughed.
“You’re awf’ly skinny,” she
said.
Joti smiled at her. She
didn’t know what to say. She
didn’t think it right to tell the
girl that she was awf’ly fat.
They all watched her as she
unwrapped her lunch. They all
stared as she began to eat.
“What are you eating?” said
one of them.
“Only kababs,” said Joti.
“K abab s!” The girls
sniggered.
“That’s only what black
people eat,” said the red-headed
girl. “And I know what they’re
made of.” She whispered
something and the girls that
heard her opened wide their
eyes.
“Eating those'.” said one girl.
They all gazed at Joti.
She sat there as long as she
could; then she gathered up her
lunch and walked to the far end
of the playground. She sat
there, with her back to them so
that they could not see her
crying.
She started home from school
very slowly, thinking of the
endless number of days that
school would be. Then she
began to run, run as if bears
were chasing her. She did not
stop running until she had
reached her home, raced through
the front gate and was standing
in the yard.
EVERYTHING was the same.
The babies were playing on
the lawn. There was the smell
of curry cooking. It was her
own home, safe and the same.
She took off her shoes at the
door and went quietly in.
As soon as she was in her
room, Joti took off her new
dress and put on her old sulwa.
Then she went down the yard to
talk to the Tiger.
He was lying in his favorite
spot by the river, and he
stretched contentedly as Joti
greeted him.
“It was horrible, horrible!”
said Joti. “There are no friends
there. They think I am black-
people. They laugh at me, and
I hate them.”
“Ha!” said the Tiger. “I
thought that might happen.”
“Then what am I to do?”
said Joti. “What am Ito do?”
“Accept,” said the Tiger.
“And they will accept you. If
you run you will fail. If you
fight you will fail. You must
only accept.”
“I cannot go back!”
“You have to go back,” said
the Tiger. “You are the eldest.
You are not the only one;
there’s your brother and sister.
And your mother and father
had the same trouble and pain,
but your mother was patient
and your father was brave—
the bravest in the school. It is
for you to be patient like your
mother and brave like your
father, little one.”
Joti looked at the ground and
said nothing.
“It is hard,” said the Tiger.
“But when they accept you they
will accept you for always.”
Joti stared at her feet and
noticed for the first time how
dark they were.
“The lessons are good,” said
the Tiger. “Your teacher is
good.”
“Oh yes,” said Joti. “I like
the lessons. The teacher is nice.
But she calls me Josie.”
The Tiger banged his paw on
the ground so that Joti jumped.
“That is a different matter,”
he said. “You’ll have to stop
that or it will last you all your
life. Your mother’s name is
Premilla and they call her Milly.
Your Aunt Halima was called
Alma.
“And your Uncle Shamshir,”
shuddered the Tiger, “they
called him Sam!”
Joti giggled and the Tiger
glanced at her sourly.
“You may think it funny
now,” he said. “And another
thing, I would not wear that
dress again. Wear your own


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas,
TO:
Address
FROM:
Address
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
{NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas, unless a definite date is requested.)
12 months £2/8/-; 6 months £l/4/6; 3 months 12/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription b
paid direct to “The Bulletin’’ or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £3/13/6 Foreign £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes yonr fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
9 /ul
IV
a
JVS
A* 3
0
v*
II
■AO
m
6 1
m
m
i
§5
fi
®na&
%
asss
v tV
“P°l3
S&3
S 3
► V>
t
r*
v
Ns
> d? £
•5*
Vj
w
His"
tti
X
*
*
X
X
w
How his eyes will light up when he
receives his new Gillette Razor Set! He
probably hasn't had a new razor for
years and his old one is quite out of
date! How he'll thank you for those
mornings and mornings of smoother,
quicker shaving! There are Gillette
Razor Sets in a wide variety of attractive
sets ranging in price from 6'6 to 42 7 6.
• Gillette Set No. 66. Quick-
action, one-piece “Aristocrat ”
razor and 10-blade dispenser
in handsome lizard case. 42/6
• Gillette Set No. 54. Famous
Gillette “Rocket” Set with
quick-action razor and 6-blade
dispenser 10/6
• Gillette Set No. 58. Rich,
red, leatherette case containing
quick-action razor and 10-blade
dispenser 29/6
• Gillette Quick-feed Dispen-
sers wrapped, in gay Christmas
cellophane. 20 Blades, 8/8;
10 Blades, 4/4
Not illustrated: Gillette Set
No. 59 at 21/6, Set No. 22
at 37/6 and No. 24 at 6/6.
Give him Gil 1 etie s6arir?g/
BIS2D
name and your own clothes and
they will understand you better.”
TOTI came down to breakfast
the next morning in her
white sulwa. “Look,” she said.
“I am me again.”
Her mother looked relieved
and Grandmother clucked
approvingly as she plaited her
hair. Her father said he would
drive her to school.
During the drive, Raj tried to
think of something encouraging
to say to his daughter. He
knew what schools were like,
but he did not know what to say
to a seven-year-old who had
dressed herself in a sulwa to be
herself again.
“Tonight, Joti,” he said at last,
as he stopped the car, “I will
bring home some lollies.”
But already Joti was out of
earshot. They were late and
she could see that the class had
gone in.
She hurried to her seat with
hardly time to look at the girl
who was sitting beside her on
the side near the window.
Miss Adams smiled at her and
began to call the roll.
“Dorothy Johnson.”
“Present,” said the girl beside
Joti.
“Josie Kausheed.”
Joti stood up, her legs shak-
ing. “Please, Miss,” she said,
“my name is Joti.”
“I must have you down as
someone else,” said Miss Adams.
“And Joti is too pretty a name
to waste.”
Joti breathed again and sat
down. The Tiger was always
right.
A T play-time Miss Adams
showed them all a new
game and helped them play it.
Joti was shy about joining in
but soon she was laughing and
leaping with the rest of them.
At lunch-time she sat with
them defiantly and, ignoring
their glances, began to eat her
lunch.
“What are you wearing?”
asked one of the girls.
“Sulwa,” said Joti.
They thought about this.
“Why are you wearing it?”
asked the red-headed girl. “Why
don’t you wear a dress?”
“Because the Tiger said so,”
said Joti.
“What Tiger?”
“My Tiger,” said Joti. “He
lives in our garden.”
“Oh, you are a fibber,” said
the red-headed girl. “Tigers
can’t talk. And you couldn’t
have one living in a garden.
He’d eat you up. And serves
you right. You’re a terrible
fibber.”
The others did not need to
think about this. They had
found a word. “Fibber!” they
called. “Fibber! Fibber!”
Joti walked away, leaving the
voices behind her. She sat at
the end of the yard, and this
time her tears were tears of
anger. How dare they doubt
her Tiger!
“White pigs,” she muttered.
“White pigs.”
“What’s your Tiger’s name,”
said a timid voice near her. It
was Dorothy, the girl who sat
beside her in school, who had
been away the day before.
“He has no name,” said Joti.
“I call him Grandfather-Tiger-
Sahib. He lives at the end of
our garden. He is always,
always, lying on th§ bank near
the river.”
' “I suppose,” said Dorothy,
sitting down beside her, “that’s
because he likes to swim. I
would like a Tiger. I’ve got
no* one to talk to, except
Auntie.”
“Where are your mother and
father?”
“M um m y died,” said
Dorothy. “And Daddy works
on a big ship and is always
away.”
“No mother !” said Joti,
horrified. “No mother at
home.” And she offered the
girl some of her lunch.
“Thank you,” said Dorothy.
“This tastes nice. Would you
like one of my biscuits?”
“Thank you,” said Joti. They
sat side by side and ate. But
Joti was remembering some-
thing. Was it something Tiger
Sahib had said? No, it was
Grandfather who said it. He
had been talking about the
trouble in India and Joti had
listened.
“All men should be brothers,”
Grandfather had said. “And
they become brothers by
sharing. They share what they
have —small things, big things—
then they are brothers.”
Joti grabbed Dorothy’s arm.
“We have shared our food,”
she shouted. .“We are sisters,
sisters! ”
JOTI ran home from school
again, flew as though she
had wings. She burst into the
kitchen, forgot to take off her
shoes, and danced and shouted.
“Grandmdther! Mother! ”
she said. “You have to make
more kababs tomorrow. I have
to share them with my friends.”
“Yes,” said her mother. “Yes,
lots more.” And she and
Grandmother listened, and
smiled at one another while Joti
chattered about her friends and
her lessons and school.
She had so much to say that
she forgot about the Tiger. It
was almost tea-time when she
remembered him. She ran
down through the garden to
talk to him. But he was not
there.
She called to him, but he
did not come. She pushed aside
the bushes with her hands, but
she could not find him. And it
was growing dark.
Suddenly she knew that he
would never come again.. He
had gone away because she did
not need him ; she was a school-
girl now.
THE WALK ALONG THE
BEACH
Across the bay the lights
Are bedlam eyes, and dark
Ejects a shooting-star
That dies in dark —on sky
It leaves no deathless mark
Above a man alone
Whose thoughts cannot resign
All gods. Now questions strive
Like waves that reach the sand
And die with froth and shine
Before his feet. He walks
Far out along the pier,
Amazed by dark and stars
That hint of nothingness
Till he is numb with fear.
He then returns through streets
To doors and easy sleep
But with his mind a sea
And harassed clouds of thought
That hunch above its deep.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.


Low's
Autobiography
An early comic-strip, 1903
“THE BULLETIN” is, of course, where David Low did
his brilliant Australian caricaturing and caricature-
cartooning (of Billy Hughes and the rest) and was the
stepping-off place to his spectacular London career, and
it was for that happy relationship that his “Autobiography”
was sent to “The Bulletin” as a serial. Low’s politics and
like beliefs are, as ever, his own particular brand—maybe
he’s patented them.
1
SjHERE were no artists on my
family-tree.
Great-grandfather Low was
a blacksmith in Fifeshire.
Grandfather Low was a
marine engineer. After doing a
stretch of whaling in the Arctic
and ranging the South Seas he found in
New Zealand what he thought was a
good place to live. So he uprooted his
family of five, including my father-to-be,
from Carnoustie and sailed the lot of
MOTHER
them off to the new settlement at
Dunedin in the 1860’s. Grandfather Low,
according to his daguerreotype, had a sad
face and dreamy eyes behind his forest of
dark beard. My father had a similar
eye. So have I.
Great-grandmother Heenan (on my
mother’s side) had arrived in Dunedin
some years earlier —in 1850—from a
village near Dublin, .with her husband
and the twelve survivors of her seventeen
children. Great-grandfather Heenan died
a comparatively young man (for the
Heenans) at 84, leaving Great-grand-
mother to grow formidably old, with an
endearing peculiarity of interrupting
church-services by breaking out in loud
extempore prayers on her own account.
By all reports, in her prime she was an
indomitable woman. She had to be.
Life was hard in the new settlement. The
Heenans had to build their own house,
boil saltwater to get salt, make tea from
manuka-scrub, walk eight miles of track
to see the nearest neighbor.
The Heenans, judging from their
daguerreotypes, were an angry-looking
lot of people, with their whiskers and
riding-boots and tight little mouths. That
is where I get my mouth from.
Grandmother Flanagan {nee Heenan),
who survived them all, was to me as a
child the head of the tribe, a matriarch
of awe-inspiring dignity gowned in black
silk with lace fichu and bonnet. Her
husband, Grandfather Flanagan, had
vanished into the mist long before I
appeared on the scene, leaving a legend
of himself as a wild colonial boy who
used to ride his horse into public build-
ings and in other ways show his con-
tempt for convention. She was a
disciplinarian, as hard as nails, who ruled
her children—-she had had ten by the
time she was twenty-eight—with a rod of
irpn. Like her parents, she was fiercely
religious in the Presbyterian faith, with
a lively abomination of sin. Her method
of fighting sin was to place almost every-
thing pleasant or amusing out-of-bounds
for the members of her household—the
theatre (a den of iniquity), card-playing
(the devil’s books), dancing, whistling,
smoking, horse-racing, novels, cosmetics,
brilliantine, “loose” music, etc. When
Grandmother was asked to contribute an
item to a musical evening she invariably
obliged with “The Old Hundredth,” the
only tune she could be sure of. She
placed great reliance upon cold baths as
a reducer of the appetite for sin and
insisted upon the daily douche for every-
one within reach, even in the dead of
winter.
Evidently Grandmother’s efforts against
sin were such as to merit special attention
at Headquarters, for according to her
own account, sincere and deliberate, Satan
in person actually called on her to tempt
her, and she saw him fair and square
standing in the doorway. As evidence in
proof of this remarkable occurrence she
used to point out two discolored patches
on the veranda, which she maintained
(without fear of contradiction) were the
burns of his hoofprints.
Grandmother Flanagan had become
Grandmother Dallas before I saw the
light. She had got married again to a
French university professor with two
danghters to add to the copious family.
As she grew older, so did the town of
Dunedin grow around her. The “colonial-
style” one-storied wooden house in which
she lived had been built in the early days
on the top of a sandhill, eighty steps and
a steep slope up. To accommodate first
the street and then the up-to-date brick
residences lining it sections of the sandhill
had had to be sheared away. This, com-
bined with subsidences caused by little
boys playing mountaineering, gave the
old house such a perilous look that fears
were expressed lest the occupants one day
be precipitated suddenly into the street
below.
Grandmother relieved the general
anxiety by having it propped up with
beams and poles, so that it sat out from
all the other houses with a stupefying
effect suggestive of a nesting yellow hen
with a broken leg. But nobody said a
word. Grandmother had become an
Identity, a Grand Old Lady, respected,
feared and loved, a woman of property
with responsibilities. She interpreted the
latter strictly as involving almost feudal
rights over her tenants, particularly over
certain Chinese tenants whose occupa-
DA VID
tion of one of her warehouses she could
overlook from her lofty veranda. She
appeared to have the idea that the saffron
complexion of these Chinese was caused
by constipation. Accordingly she insisted
upon their attendance at her house for a
cup of senna-tea every Saturday morn-
ing—Saturday morning, so that the
consequences thereof would not interfere
with the conduct of their business. And
they came.
The precepts and practice of Grand-
mother Flanagan had a considerable effect
upon the destinies of her posterity,
though not in the way she might have
anticipated; for her children, as and
when they could lead their own lives,
proceeded to do so on very different lines
from hers. It was of great importance to
me that her daughter, Caroline, my
mother-to-be, who inherited Grand-
mother Flanagan’s resolution but revolted
from her everlasting discipline, decided
that in all respect save cleanliness and
godliness her methods of raising any
children she might have would be the
opposite of her mother’s. She would
make a point of giving individual
character a chance and not “bring up”
her children too much.
MY father’s people were cast in very
different mould from those of my
mother. The Low family were Scottish —
very Scottish indeed. Dunedin (N.Z.)
was a predominantly Scottish settlement,
and the exiled settlers clung with such
sentimental devotion to customs and
symbols of their far-off native land that
in other parts of New Zealand Dunedin
was jokingly spoken of as the capital of
Scotland. The Lows played their part
in keeping alive the ideas of Hallowe’en,
nichts wi’ Burns, and other rites with
haggis, the pipes, whisky and mournful
folksongs about the auld hoose, the
bonnie glen and Chairlie. Grandmother
Low made a gentle kindly widow when
Grandfather died at sea, after she had
put up so patiently with his marine
adventurings after fairy gold.
The expedition to the General Grant,
for instance. In 1886 the American full-
rigged ship General Grant, with £50,000-
worth of gold and a passenger-list of
miners taking home their piles aboard,
set sail from Melbourne to London. For
some unexplained reason she passed away
south of her intended course, and found
herself before the Auckland Archipelago
with a falling wind and a heavy swell on
the sea. In the murky night the doomed
vessel was caught in the currents near
the rocky shores of Adam’s Island and
sucked into a cave. The rise and fall of
the swell within the cave caused her tall
masts to punch against the roof of the
cave and finally drove the mainmast
clean through the keel. The vessel sank
in five minutes with great loss of life.
As might be expected, the idea of all
that treasure lying on the sea-floor of
that cave inflamed the imagination of
adventurers everywhere. Expeditions
were fitted-out, steamers were chartered
complete with divers. At this point the
story, as handed down by Dad to us
children, becomes a little woolly and
tinged with fantasy. Grandfather Low,
it seems, went into a huddle with a
syndicate of kindred spirits to hatch
mysterious plans for an attempt of their
own. All of the expeditions were said
to depend upon the indispensable help
of a certain survivor who alone could
guide the adventurers to the right spot.
Grandfather’s syndicate had made special
arrangements with this survivor. But
just as all was ready and steam was
practically up, the survivor was found
dead in his hotel bedroom. The question
arose: should this stop the intrepid
syndicate? Never. Off they go into
the blue, Grandfather Low’s bushy beard
waving in the breeze.
After many months, long overdue, the
vessel steamed back into Dunedin
harbor. But how changed. Except for
the shell and essential portions of her
deck, practically everything wooden had
disappeared, burned-up for fuel to enable
the company to stay away so long and
then get home. The great curiosity
aroused by this exploit was not gratified
by any sensational revelations from
members of the syndicate, who had
evidently agreed among themselves to
keep their mouths closed. Even Grand-
father Low observed the rule of mum’s
the word to his family. But it was darkly
hinted by disappointed neighbors that
after a few weeks all those who returned
seemed to be leading suspiciously rich
lives, wearing new clothes, smoking big
cigars, drinking expensive drinks and
riding freely in smart carriages. That
might have been sheer imagination. On
FATHER
the other hand, it was certainly true that
Grandfather Low had had a great
beano. But poor Grandmother Low . . .
THE Lows and the Heenans were
antipathetic; and the conflict was
amply represented in young David Low
and young Caroline Flanagan. In spite
of this—or perhaps because of it —they
courted, wed and settled-down in a house
in the shadow of Grandmother’s sandy
eminence, where she could keep an eye
on them. In due course, in rapid succes-
sion, three sons were born to them, of
whom I was the third. If I were asked
to stocktake the better qualities of my
inheritance and their sources 1 should
say my mother is represented in me by
such practicality, resource and deter-
mination as I possess ; my father, by the
optimism, romance and curiosity.
Before I was old enough to notice,
we had all moved to live farther north
at Christchurch, where I was to grow up.
The dawn of consciousness for me
synchronised more-or-less with the South
African War and the Relief of Mafeking.
Flags, crowds, brass bands, newspapers
printed in red, white and blue, the
Absent-minded Beggar —Hooray! .
our gallant troops . . . hooray! . . .
hooray! • • • lemonade, lollies ... the
Dear Old Queen . . . hooray! the
Procession with Our Lads ... an effigy
of silly old Kruger, whiskered, umbrellaed
and tophatted . . . boo ! booooo !! . ..


a big stovepipe marked long tom (an
allusion to a field-gun currently famous
for its siege-breaking effectiveness) set
up at a businesslike angle belching forth
smoke and loud bangs every few
minutes . . . the fairy lamps which Dad
hung all over the front of our house at
night.
A kaleidoscopic day of excitement and
delight. Dad had said at tea-time that
someone called Lloyd George had talked
sense about the Boers, but that was above
my head. Someone had told us that a
cousin, had been killed and another had
died of enteric-fever in camp, but that
had no meaning for me.
Dad had an appetite for new experi-
ences, and he moved with the times. His
business advantages enabled him to enter
with enthusiasm into the new develop-
ments of photography, wet- and dry-
plate, posed and, later, snapshot, stereo-
scopic double-view and lanternslide-
making. We were among the first in our
town to possess one of the new marvellous
phonographs. When safety-bicycles came
in we had five, one for each in different
sizes, with a small one for . me, aged
seven, to fit my small legs. (I can still
see the amazed neighbors as we whisked
by.) We had one of the new treadle
fretsaws and made horrible pipe-racks
and book-ends. We collected stamps,
with judgment—and profit.
Dad’s only failure as a hobbyist was
his attempt to collect half-tone illustra-
tions from the periodicals. He had
worked it out that the new form of
reproduction had no future and examples
must necessarily remain few and would
become rare. That was a miscalculation.
Don’t imagine we never suffered correc-
tion, for we did. Lying, cheating,
meanness, gluttony, plain rudeness,
sadistic cruelty like chasing the hens with
a stick, or breaches of personal hygiene
like failing to clean one’s teeth, earned
shame and tears, even sometimes a clout
on the behind. In those far-off days the
new methods of child-rearing were yet
unknown. My parents had never heard
of “repressions” or “complexes.” They
just used their hearts and heads. I do
not say their way of raising children was
the best way for others—indeed in the
course of my life I have met disgusting
brats brought up on similar lines who
misbehaved recklessly, making life a hell
generally for everybody, including them-
selves. But it worked with the Lows—
if a natural growth of trust and affection
between child and parent is a test.
My father’s ideas on equipping us for
the battle of life were unconventional.
As small boys he took us to the theatre
(orchestra-stalls, one for each of us at
3s. 6d. apiece) whenever any worthy
company of actors visited our town. I
was used to the Drama before I could
understand what was happening.
He took us to the races and showed us
How to Bet intelligently, with the aid of
Turf Register and Handbook of Form.
As we passed to early youth he bought
us pipes and showed us How to Smoke.
He showed us how, by a substitution of
harmless words, one could swear without
using foul language. “Crrash the dingled
blub! ” must have sounded peculiar to
the ear of a stranger, but it relieved the
feelings wonderfully and usually
sublimated anger to laughter. “Frost!”
cursed my father when he dropped Ihe
spade on his foot.
He explained the evils of Irregularity
in Alcohol and Sex —and left it at that
. . . and he showed us How to Read for
pleasure as well as for profit. Our house
was full of books, and we were
encouraged to read in bed, at the dinner-
table, in the fields or up a tree. He
had us always at his table for meals. My
father was a disputatious person about
political and social subjects (on a
theological background) and he was
prone to talk at us and to us on the adult
level about the State of the Country, the
Destiny of Man and the Nature of the
Infinite. I groped for opinions and began
to develop a precocious interest in the
world about me,
2
HF at the beginning of the present
centux*y Dunedin were Scottish,
Christchurch was definitely English.
It was as though the god-fearing settlers,
struck on their arrival fifty years, before
by the charm of the green plains laced
with a gently-flowing river and edged
with comfortable hills, had said “Lovely!
So different! The very place for an
English cathedral town!”
The motion was evidently carried
unanimously, so they went to work. They
built a massive Gothic cathedral, laid
down a sensible street-system, naming
all the streets after English cathedrals
and, just so that there should not be any
mistake, they called it Christchurch.
Fifty years later, in 1900* when I was
nine and able to take notice, the succeed-
ing generation had played up to the
original conception and had established
a clean, open, pleasant town in which
any exile from England could have
settled down without feeling too pain-
fully far from home. The climate, except
for the inversion of the seasons, was like
enough to that which he had left behind.
The food was much the same, English
flowers, shrubs and trees had been trans-
planted liberally and flourished every-
where.
The River Avon, winding gently
around the town, lined with picturesque
weeping- willows (and full of trout), bore
a family likeness to its sister at Stratford.
The cathedral now lay to the east of a
large open square lined with buildings in
the pure English tradition of assorted
architecture and containing a central
grass plot with statue of The Founder,
looking out at his work from a circle of
waiting carriers’ vans, and London
hansom-cabs, a steam-tram terminus, a
horse-bus stop and a multitude of
cyclists ; leaving plenty of room still for
the local big-wigs to parade, meet and
transact their business in the fresh air.
Doubtless there are—or have been—
many such squares in England. But the
number of cyclists was unusual. Christ-
church citizens had found this means of
travel particularly suitable to their flat
With Beaverbrook (Low’s in the bow); later instalments describe this and
almost-daily similar meetings with picturesque important people.
terrain, and even by 1900 had adopted it
so completely that local humorists
proudly boasted that all Christchurch
babies were born on bicycles. And the
houses, of course, were different. Except
■ for main public offices and business
premises they were built of wood, not
stone, and were single-storied, iron-
roofed, with verandas. No antiquity, no
ancient monuments, no manor-houses.
The people were the familiar sound
middle-class stock, healthy and pink-
cheeked, though with a new inflection in
their speech, slower, harder and with
sharper corners than any English accent.
By 1900 New Zealand had got over
some of its growing-pains and the frozen-
meat industry had brought prosperity to
Christchurch. In a thriving community
where there was plenty of work for every-
body, tempers were mellow and there
were no poor. The social atmosphere
was fairly equalitarian and individuals
were robustly independent, although there
were, of course, snobs to encourage social
distinctions on the model of the Old
World, as between old families (nobility)
and new, land-proprietors (landed gentry)
and tradesmen, big importing business-
men (barons of industry) and workmen.
At least two silk tophats were in daily
use, and on town occasions we could
muster about twenty. If our visitor from
England happened to have a handle to
his name he could reckon on suffering a
red-carpet reception from our “best
people,” however much he might have
thought that the tendency to imitate some
manners and customs of the Old World
seemed a little incongruous in these
surroundings.
But if he wished to sail his model yacht
he could do so on the lake in Hagley
Park, just as on the Serpentine. He could
watch good cricket at Lancaster Park just
as at The Oval or Lord’s, and good
racing at Riccarton in the best Aintree-
Epsom tradition. He could have an
English day at the seaside, complete with
donkeys and Punch and Judy, at New
Brighton or Sumner; or an English
political argument at the open-air meet-
ings on the Hyde Park model in
Cathedral-square. For entertainment he
could go to the Theatre Royal to see
stock companies from Australia (and
occasionally momentous visiting stars
from the Old Country like, say, Mrs.
Brown Potter, Mrs. Patrick Campbell, or
Wilson Barrett) play London successes ;
or there was always the local branch of a
regular vaudeville circuit, run on lines
half Christy-Minstrels, half London
music-hall.
There was a roller-skating rink, several
well-lit hotels with friendly barmaids and
two or three cheerful billiard-salons for
youqg men-about-town. But no cinemas
yet. No taxis, no restaurants, no night-
clubs, no dance-halls, no electric signs.
The gay life closed-down at about nine-
o’clock p.m. excepting on Saturday
night.
That was the big night, when the shops
kept open until after eleven and the town
let itself go. Then one could have a
royal time for a couple of shillings: half-
a-dozen oysters at Mr. Fail’s the fish-
monger, sixpence; or two large beef-
saveloys piping hot at Mr. Steele’s the
butcher, twopence ; a cup of coffee, a
penny; a first-class American cigar,
sixpence ; a look at the strolling juggler,
nothing—or perhaps a penny; and a
listen to the political wrangles in the
square, nothing; a game of billiards
(which one hoped to win), nothing ; beer
for defeated partner and one’s self, six-
pence ; a copy of the late edition of the
“Star,” a sizeable wad of reading, a
penny. Then the long walk home, singing.
A full life.
Life was not all butter, cheese and
Canterbury lamb. Christchurch had a
window on the world. We had two
morning-newspapers, two evenings, all
built on the lines of the London “Times,”
(Continued on next page )
Low’s the impudent youngster sitting bolt-upright near the standing court-clerk: he got in masquerading (in the interests of art) as
somebody’s secretary or suchlike.


well served with foreign cables and local
reports; two heavyweight weeklies for
the farmers, with half-tone picture supple-
ments ; and a social-political-gossip
weekly that printed cartoons. For a
population of one-hundred-thousand that
was not so bad. We had a respectable
seat of learning in Canterbury College,
an adequate Public Library and a con-
servative but well-attended School of
Art.
New Zealand, then, had not advanced
far enough from pioneering difficulties
for people to be as concerned with the
encouragement of the graces as with
making a living. Still, there were poets,
actors, musicians, half-a-dozen profes-
sional painters and two black-and-white
artists in Christchurch. But the life
artistic offered no glittering prizes, and
talent was usually accompanied by
ambition to save up and go to seek
laurels elsewhere.
ITT was not until I grew older that I
began to see my father in better
perspective. As a man of business work-
ing at the direction of others he was a
square peg in a round hole, a man of
ideas chafing at routine, dreaming expan-
sive dreams of bringing off some master-
stroke which would put us all on velvet,
when he should have been counting
pennies.
Such men—and their families—are
fated to Ups and Downs. His abilities
had taken him from junior clerk to a
sound and dignified job as Christchurch
manager of a big drug-importing business,
and caught in this trap he should have
settled-down to respectable frustration
like a responsible citizen, and given up
trying to spread wings. But he did not
—with far-reaching results.
This was the era of patent-medicines,
and my father was in the drug business.
The chemists’ shops were full of cough-
cures. My father knew that practically
all of these “cures” were based upon the
appropriate standard recipe in the
Pharmacopoeia, to be found by anybody
who liked to look it up, and that they
differed only according to a pinch of
flavoring, a catchy name and smart
advertising.
In my father’s view, the advertising
was the thing. In imagination he con-
ceived of an organisation of chemists to
produce new and better-flavored cough-
cures, with absolutely irresistible names
and unprecedentedly stupendous advertis-
ing.
From imagination to realisation proved
a short step. Discreetly—obscurely,
almost —he became a moving spirit in a
small group of retail chemists to make
and push a cough-cure named Benjamin
Gum.
The effect was startling. Benjamin Gum
stickers appeared on lamp-posts ; house-
holders found visiting-cards with “Ben-
jamin Gum” beautifully engraved pushed
under their doors; cheap little toys
imported from Japan by the bale found
their way into the hands of little children
with the compliments of Benjamin Gum ;
Benjamin Gum decorated posters and
handbills; there were Benjamin Gum
competitions, songs, jokes and puzzles.
I was deeply impressed. If Mary Tudor
had Calais written on her heart,
Benjamin Gum was written on mine.
For a time Benjamin Gum did well,
and no doubt cured many coughs. But
its, success encouraged expansion, and my
father endeavored to expand. Another
patent-medicine was born in which he
also had a hand. Things became involved,
and my father found himself caught in
a chain of complexities which included,
among other surprises, his becoming
part-owner of a bioscope, the first to reach
New Zealand.
I well remember the excitement with
which the Low family sat —myself spell-
bound—in the dress-circle of the Christ-
church Opera House to see this marvel-
lous new magic-lantern which showed
pictures that moved ; and the privileged
visit we made behind the screen to peep,
from a fair distance, at Cousin Alick
engaged in the dangerous function of
guarding the acetylene-gas illumination.
That was a Red Letter day. That was
one of the Ups.
The end was inevitable. The board of
directors of the big drug' business of which
my father was local manager, learning of
his independent activities, took exception,
and he and they parted. The scene
changed. Bioscope, Benjamin Gum and
all faded. That was a Down.
THE Low fortunes were depressed
when suddenly there came a bouncing
Up.
Among the many and varied sprats
tossed by my father to catch Fortune
were his regular “subscriptions” to the
Tattersalls Sweepstakes, the big Aus-
tralian lottery which was as famous in
its day as the Calcutta Sweep or the Irish
Sweep in later years. One day the news
arrived that he had drawn Maltster, the
favorite for the Melbourne Cup. He
stood to win £6750, a fortune in those
days.
At the time he was in delirium with
congestion of the lungs. My mother took
charge. Our house was invaded by a
procession of sharp-eyed, jowled men
who came to make offers for either the
whole or a piece of the ticket. They
did not get far with my mother. With
characteristic strength of mind she stood
pat on our luck and sent them all packing.
Unfortunately the favorite was pipped
on the post. The second prize, however,
was £2250, still a considerable win. How
the money was spent is illuminating of
the family blend of practicality and
romance. Half went to buying
Riversleigh, the rambling old house in
the country (two miles from the centre
of Christchurch was country in those
days) which we had been renting; half
to going—all six of us, a new sister
having arrived —for a glorious spree to
Sydney, the fabulous Australian city
which stood for pleasure to New
Zealanders as Paris does to the English.
But a windfall does not last for ever.
With some family financing we began a
new chapter. The large hotel bills during
our travels had convinced my father that
there was a fortune in the hotel business.
THE TSAR'S NIGHIMARE
An early political cartoon (1904; Low would then be about 15): Nicholas II
fears revolution at home and defeat by Japan.
So naturally we had to go into the hotel
business. There should have been a
fortune in it, especially for people in our
position, able to stock —partly, at least
—with food grown by ourselves at our
country place. Alas! Despite my dad’s
best efforts in well-printed, attractive
publicity, and my mother’s newly dis-
covered talent for the organisation of
the welfare of from sixty to a hundred-
and-twenty people, there wasn’t.
It was during this episode that events
happened of the greatest importance in
shaping my future. My eldest brother
died, and in consequence of this I was
withdrawn from school. My brother’s
death was clearly caused by peritonitis,
but our parents felt that his vitality had
been weakened beforehand by overstudy.
Desperate with grief, they determined not
to make the same mistake with their
remaining children. Our formal educa-
tion at the Boys’ High School was
suspended indefinitely, while we built up
our health running wild in the long grass
at Riversleigh.
I was aged eleven. For a space of five
years I had a healthy time, partly helping
with the horses, cows, pigs and chickens,
partly following my own hook. I had
time to devote to the occupations I liked
most, drawing, reading, or just sitting up
a tree or in a dry ditch thinking. I had
not much company save for my father,
an aunt and our handy-man. My second
brother, with most of the neighboring
boys within reach, was in love with
engines. He acquired a secondhand
steam-engine from somewhere and set it
up on a concrete bed in one of the out-
houses. He and his friends would stoke
it up and sit admiring it as the flywheel
whizzed around to no purpose whatever.
Later he and the others became
engrossed with the new motor-cars and
motor-cycles that were just coming in.
All that had no interest for me.
THESE were formative years, when the
young normally go to school to
absorb not merely learning but the
postulates of citizenship and the canons
of behavior in civilised society. I missed
all this, and was left without the modi-
fications of “team-spirit,” outside the
freemasonry of Old Boys. But I had the
advantages of my disadvantages. I had
no discipline, so I had to rule myself ; in
the absence of companionship, I had to
be a self-contained.
In such circumstances orthodoxy was
certainly not to be taken for granted. My
natural curiosity, left to itself, led me
rather to a questioning approach to
accepted standards, and a reluctance to
facile conformity which sometimes
amounted to mutiny. A brash small boy
who, when the band played “God Save
the King,” demanded to know “Why?
What’s he done?” or who declined to
cheer the British Empire without know-
ing more about it, could be a dreadful
pill to worthy citizens who deemed
uncatechetical acceptance of the social
rules a virtue.
Improvement in drawing, now my
absorbing purpose, depended upon my
own self-criticism and private effort, there
being nobody about to share my interest,
so I naturally valued my own concepts
of success and failure above those of
outsiders who could not know my aims.
And it was but a step from there to being
more concerned with the satisfaction of
my own personal standards than with
those of others in matters of honor,
self-respect and conduct, too. As the
twig bent, so grew the tree.
Life was much changed by my brother’s
death. Seeking consolation for the death
of his dearly beloved eldest son, my
father found it in religion. He was
always a disputatious man, and religion
mixed with his native radicalism made
him considerably vocal. Part of the daily
routine was the evening return journey
transporting produce between the country
and town places which we managed
together with the aid of our sleepy white
horse Euroclydon—Rocky for short.
The circumstances were stimulating to
discussion, so he argued with me. I
seemed to need little encouragement. By
all accounts we could be heard along
the road long before we came in sight, in
loud dispute usually about matters bear-
ing directly or indirectly on religion.
What would Christ do with reference to
current private and public problems was
a favorite theme, capable, I found, of
expansion to cover unlimited territories
of interest.
We were able to disagree, with gusto,
about sin and hell-fire. In my opinion sin
lay in going against the light, and since
the light differed with individuals, sin was
an individual thing. I could not think
that if all were sinful and some were born
with the ability to throw off the burden
and others not, it was right and proper to
punish the latter. This did not convince
my father any more than my arguments
concerning miracles.
My dad stood by the complete accept-
ance of the Church of England Bible in
the most literal sense of its meaning. I
emerged from our theological wrestlings
calling myself a Protestant, but being in
fact an Agnostic—a state which seemed
to me then, and does so still, to be the
only one for an honest seeker after truth
whose knowledge is necessarily limited
and who is too stiff-necked to dilute his
judgment—so far as it went —by his
wishes.
Bowling along the country road beside
the river with voices raised in earnest
argument above the clatter of cartwheels
and horseshoes, my bearded dad and his
youngster must have made a queer
picture to passers-by.
YET perhaps it was not so queer in the
circumstances. Apart from a
natural growth of confidence resulting
from our family practice of freely admit-
ting my brothers and me to conversation
“beyond our years” with our elders, I
had become a voracious and omnivorous
reader. It was one of my two principal
enjoyments, thanks to my dad’s
sympathetic understanding in consulting
my natural boyish interest at the outset.
That interest had been chained in the
first place by “penny dreadfuls.” Their
attractions were obvious. Written in
simple words, they were easy to read, and
one could get on with the exciting story
for fun without feeling that one was
taking another lesson in grammar or
“doing yourself good.” Although to an
adult they would certainly have seemed
conventional and repetitious in phrase
and idea to the point of absurdity, I was
not yet an adult-
Once lured, so easily and willingly
through the back-door of the world of
imagination, I read and read, graduating
painlessly from the first rapture of Dead-
wood Dick, Frank Reed’s Steam Man,
Spring-heeled Jack and Claude Duval,
through the sheer delight of Jack Hark-
away, Tom Wildrake, Ned Nimble and
Pantomime Joe, and the other priceless
schoolday books issued from the thrice-
blessed publishing houses of Edwin J.
Brett, Aldine House and Hogarth
House.
There came a time when overfamiliarity
with the conventions and cliches, both of
situation and expression, of these schools
of literature urged me towards new and
farther fields. Waiting for me there were
the pleasures of Jules Verne and R. L.
Stevenson. I could never stick Ballantyne,
Mayne Reed or Henty, possibly because
of the smug sort of people who recom-
mended them to me ; I scorned Eric Or
Little by Little as priggish ; Tom Brown’s
Schooldays was insipid after my Jack
Harkaway and company ; and I was filled
with enduring loathing of Kingsley’s
Westward Ho! and Blackmore’s Lorna
Doone because they had had to be read
compulsorily at school. •
My dad throughout his lifetime could
never pass a secondhand-bookshop, and
consequently he had accumulated a large
and varied lot of books. I made the
acquaintance of Stanley Weyman, Wilkie
Collins, Max Pemberton, Quiller Couch,
Rider Haggard and Conan Doyle, and
then Dickens and Mark Twain. They
all became my meat.
So far, until my brother’s death, my
reading had been almost entirely of
fiction. But a change took place when my
father found religion. With that
enthusiastic devoutness which usually
accompanies conversion, he sought
opportunities to divest himself of world-
liness, and his eye fell on our library.
There took place the burial of the
books and the purging of the shelves.
He collected all his volumes of Zola, de
Maupassant, Daudet, George Sand and
others whose works in his opinion could
be considered ungodly, and, taking them
to a quiet part of the vegetable-garden,
solemnly dug a deep hole and buried
them. Then he weeded-out from the
shelves most of the less-dangerous fiction
and sent it to the secondhand-bookshop.
The sad gaps on the shelves were refilled
with theology.
Because of this my fare had to become
more solid. I tried Paley’s Natural
Theology to help me in argument, but it
was heavy going. As I prowled the
shelves, I made discoveries. I found
history, philosophy and the humane arts
could be mighty interesting, too, even
entertaining and exciting. I made a useful
find in a bundle of fortnightly-parts of a
popular publication which gave its
readers potted versions of “Great Books
of the World.”
What a lot of nonsense is talked and
written about the harmful effects of
“cheap culture.” A pox on those arrogant
snobs who from their positions of
vantage deplore the means whereby the
thoughts and imaginations of the less
fortunate may be kindled and would
make the path to understanding more
difficult and joyless than need be! The
snippets of “Great Books of the World"
led me to Socrates, Jane Austen, Tolstoy,
Suetonius, Smollett, Plutarch, Herodotus,
o Continued on page 30)


OUR CORRUGATED-
IRON TANK
Our tank stood on a crazy stand,
Bare to the burning sky,
White-hot as glares the desert sand,
And dismal to the eye.
Its lid was like a rakish hat,
The tap bent all awry
And with a drip so constant that
It almost dripped when dry.
It was a most convenient tank
Wherein most things could fall;
Where snakes came from the bush and
drank,
The rabbits used to call,
The mice committed suicide,
The gum-leaves sank to rest,
And in it possums dropped and died
And hornets made their nest.
But stark within my memory
I see it once again
When we looked at it anxiously—
Days when we hoped for rain;
I hear the hollow sounds it made,
Like some prophetic drum,
As I tapped rung on rung, afraid
Of dreadful days to come,
When mother in despair would pray
As low the water sank:
Four rungs, three rungs, two rungs and,
aye,
How miserly we drank;
And there was none for face or hands,
Waste was a wicked thing,
There in the baked and parching lands,
With hope our only spring.
Next came the fatal “One rung left!”
(How cruel words can be!),
As we all stood of joys bereft,
Dumb in our misery:
And then I tapped the tank in pain—
Those knells of drought and doom:
Our tank at last gone dry again,
Our home cast down in gloom;
But, oh, the joy that filled our hearts
When came the bounteous rain
And the drain-pipe sang in fits and
starts
And filled the tank again!
We felt as if we’d riches won,
That life again was sweet;
And, overjoyed then, everyone,
We even washed our feet!
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON


Montaigne, Kant, Carlyle and many
others whom I subsequently tracked
down —many of them in a lucky find of
old Bohn’s Library editions —and read at
greater length for entertainment, not as a
duty. .
Poets and I did not get on in those
days. I had been bored as a small school-
boy at having to learn and parrot-off
poetry from a volume entitled Lyra
Heroica, a collection made by W. E.
Henley. Many years later in London I
came across the same volume in a four-
penny-box in Farringdon-street. On the
cover was the remembered verse printed
in gold, something special:
Sound, sound the Clarion, fill the fife,
To all the sensual world proclaim,
One crowded hour of glorious life
Is worth an age without a name.
A gob of mud in the eye for the humble
and the ordinary. I suspected that verse
The Hon. JIMMY CARROLL
N.Z. Premier Joe Ward’s “brown
right hand.”
when I first saw it. Now that I have
grown old after tasting my crowded hour
and learned to appreciate the pleasure of
quietness, I know it to be musical bosh.
I opened the book and turned the pages.
I could feel an echo of the impact on the
mind of the child of nine that had been
me. Poetry was a way of writing about
rowdy people who showed off and waved
swords about. No poems about calm
people who just fixed everything sensibly
without violence . . . It was years before
I was led back, via Gray’s country
churchyard Over the Hills and Far
Away, to the lands of sweet sadness and
lonely joy.
I had. to set my teeth and bite my way
through Aristotle’s Ethics, and I could
only nibble several corners off Gibbon.
By comparison Thucydides’ Pelopon-
nesian War and Clarendon on the
Rebellion came easily. The easiest read-
ing I found was the Bible, which I read
from start to finish as a book, side-
stepping “texts” so as to get the whole.
This five years of haphazard grazing in
the fields of letters came at an absorptive
W. F. MASSEY
N.Z. Opposition Leader.
time in my life. Learning, said a wise
man, cannot be transferred, it must be
appropriated. I soaked up my reading
and it became part of my own thoughts,
so much so that to this day I have
difficulty in quoting without reference.
Just as well, perhaps. The regurgitation
of titbits is too often evidence of an
imperfect digestion.
My chores were easily done, and I
could organise my spare time as I thought
fit. I would do a spell of digging or
cutting wood, then climb a tree and do a
spell of reading, then climb down and
do a spell of drawing. I starved for some-
one to share my delight in drawing, but
although I was sometimes damnably
lonely that was just as well, too, as it
turned out. Habits of self-reliance and
solitary reflection were useful attributes
of character for a youth soon to try
asserting himself in the unexplored and
somewhat doubtful profession of comic-
art in New Zealand.
3
HDO not remember when my interest
in drawing began; but probably it
was given direction by the half-penny
comics “Chips,” “Comic Cuts,” “Larks,”
“Funny Cuts,” “The Big Budget.” As I
remember at this distance of time the
comic and the penny-dreadful were
distinctly different articles in those days.
The comics were not full of detectives,
revolvers, sex and trips to Mars. Neither
were they tiny tots’ animal picture-books
of teddy-bears and tiger-tims. jThe comics
were comic. The comicality was simple,
repetitious, farcical and robustly vulgar.
The very essence, in fact, of British fun.
I got to know Tom Browne’s “Weary
Willie and Tired Tim,” Yorick’s “Airy
Alf and Bouncing Billy,” Fred Bennett’s
burlesqued “Oliver Twist,” and the
“Josser” of Oliver Veal, that creator of
a queer race of people who wore their
mouths open under their left ears.
At the age of seven or eight to me
these were the British comic artists of
the time. Was I wrong? I have an
uneasy feeling that if at sixty I had to
debate the point with myself at eight, I
might have difficulty in proving that the
elect of the tasteful few were more fitly
representative than these mass entertainers
of the unsophisticated millions. It is
always difficult to explain artistic values
to the uninitiated, even the superiority of
quality to quantity ; especially so when,
as in this case, the achievement of
quantity obviously demanded a quality of
its own. All very well to scorn, but it is
no easier to catch the eye of the primitive
mass audience with comic pictures than
it is to catch its ear on the modern radio
—and that is saying something.
These stars of the comics fascinated
me. I squandered my pocketmoney on
them. I was moved to emulation. I got
a piano-case and set it on end in a quiet
place as a studio, took off the narrow
side and put hinges on it for a door, cut
a small window and fitted a board for a
desk. When I got inside there was no
room for anybody else and I was quite
private. There I sat and tried hard to be
a comic artist without in the least know-
ing how to start. I could find no books
which told me anything useful about the
how. Books either talked as though
Caricature was a “gift” or gave a history
of caricaturists of the past garnished with
anecdotes. There were no books such
as there are a-plenty in the 1950’s to each
How to Be a Genius in Six Easy Lessons.
For me it seemed that only by dint of
smithing could one become a smith. I
filled exercise-book after exercise-book
with copies as meticulous as I was able
of the drawings in the comics. I became
a very dexterous copyist before it
occurred to me that this was but copying
and I wanted to make drawings of my
own.
I managed with infinite labor to con-
trive some which seemed suitably comic.
Ideas did not bother me, because I just
dipped into the general stockpot. So
far as I could judge, to introduce a new
idea to this world of fixed jokes would
have been a professional error. London,
the source of all the comics, was plainly
the place for my drawings. It was a
disadvantage that I was 15,000 miles from
my potential market, but there was the
post-office. I rolled them up and posted
them off —the first of a series of parcels
so long and so regularly dispatched as
almost to deserve classification as an
important New Zealand export. Some
of these parcels I never heard of again.
Some returned with rejection-slips,
polite and impolite. Otherwise nothing
happened.
Drawing my own compositions was a
mighty different thing, I found, from
copying. My drawings wouldn’t flow off
the pen. I started to
take this art of the
comics apart to see
what it was made of.
I saw it was not
really an art at all,
but a craft the
piecing-together of a
lot of established
conventions not far
from the ideographs
of ancient Egyptian
writing. Combina-
tions of lines repre-
senting a boot, or a
hat, or an umbrella,
for instance, only
distantly resembling
these objects, but
traditionally accepted as shorthand for
them.
Not that there was anything wrong *in
that. For the matter of that, all art is
based upon convention. People do not
think in words, don’t feel in music, don’t
see in lines or brush-strokes. But the
fun of being an artist lies in the creation
of one’s own conventions, in arrange-
ment of the means to enlarge one’s
individual field of expression. These were
old conventions, obsolete, dull with repe-
tition, so mechanical that they might
have been stencilled. They were a bore.
I wanted to be an artist.
I had made the natural mistake of
trying to conjure everything out of my
head. It struck me that my trouble was
that I was trying to draw a house without
knowing what a house looked like,
and the first thing to do was to look at
a house. I took stern measures towards
improvement, improvising a system
whereby I drew and redrew the same
Dr. FINDLAY
N.Z. Attorney-General.
picture over and over, each successive
state having to be, by a pact with myself,
better than the last. First I would draw
a general composition as well as I was
able, comprising, say, a figure on a horse
in front of a building. The next day I
would look for a suitable building, give
it a good look-over and laboriously make
a careful picture of it; find a horse and
give that also the same treatment ; and
persuade our handyman to pose for five
minutes on a saddle. Finally, when
circumstances allowed, I assembled the
components, horse, man and house, and
photographed them together so that I
could see more clearly where my sketch
was weak.
The immediate result was a mess more
often than not. But after a while the
exercise helped me to distinguish good
from bad in form and arrangement, not
merely in my own drawings but also in
those of others. It began to dawn on
me that one could draw a thing if one
understood it, but usually got lost if
one did not.
A pile of old copies of “Punch” I
found in the back room of a fatherly
secondhand-bookseller introduced me to
the treasure of Charles Keene. Linley
Sambourne, Randolph Caldecott and
Dana Gibson came as further revelations.
The more I pored over the intricate
technical quality of these artists the more
difficult did drawing appear. How
impossible that one could ever become
an artist! But then I came on Phil May,
who combined quality with apparent
facility. I nearly fell into the pitfall of
supposing , his facility was real and not
studied to accord with the spontaneity of
his humor. Fortunately I was reading
Ruskin at the time, which balanced my
BOARDERS
(With long joke about the steak headed “In the Wake
of the Rubber Boom”)
judgment. However, once having dis-
covered Phil May I never let him go.
At this point something happened.
One day I opened my “Big Budget” to
find one of my own three-picture strips
printed—printed in microscopic size, but
printed. Victory! I leaped in the air.
TTOYS, like sorrows, never come singly.
Shortly afterwards my entry for a
monthly drawing-competition run by an
Australian magazine won and was
printed. And a very little later I ventured
my first cartoon on public affairs to the
local satirical-political weekly, the
“Spectator,” and it went in. This run of
triumphs was very encouraging. I
repaired and whitewashed a redundant
fowlhouse and moved from my piano-
case to new and larger premises. The
net receipts from my three successes
were: (a) nothing ; (b) five-shillings ; and
(c) two-shillings-and-sixpence; but the
important gain was that I now had
openings.
Alas! A mountain of labor moved
the “Big Budget” to only one more small
mouse, a tiny illustrated joke (nothing).
On the other hand I took such care to
hit that Australian magazine competition
on the button month by month that I
came to regard their five-shilling prize
almost as fixed income. Best of all, the
proprietor of the “Spectator,” feeling, no
doubt, that at the price it would be good
business to have at hand a potential
reserve cartoonist fop'his paper, decided
to try me at illustrating two jokes per
week for two-shillings-and-sixpence each.
With the first ten-shillings I had a
friendly printer produce for me a box of
personal cards, saying:
D. A. C. Low,
Black-and-White Artist
The sight of my work in print gave
me more confidence ; and my earnings
brought within the range of reasonable
expenditure the means of possible
improvement which before might have
seemed unjustified. I answered an
American advertisement and for some
time sent a dollar a month to a
correspondence-school of caricature in
New York. They made it easy—too,
too easy. The conventions again, the
stale old dodges for evading real draw-
ing. How to become a complete hack.
Before long I lost interest and turned to
our local. School of Art. Here was the
other end of the stick. How to draw
without being able to express anything.
I was put to drawing and shading-up
DICK ARNST
(Bathed in much sporting limelight, not
only in sculling.)


carefully, first, blocks of wood ; then a
plaster bust of Homer; then a “life”
model, whose “life” was apparent only
when she was not posing.
I wanted to be an artist, but not that
kind of an artist. I was interested in life,
and, when it came to drawing, in the
representation of life. Technical instruc-
tion in graphic exactitude was good, but
I felt I needed even more to study objects
on the move, to render impressions and
to gain a knowledge of essential
characteristics and their relationships that
would enable me to draw anything at any
angle without hesitation. Knowing the
characteristic wrinkles in a coat-sleeve,
say, was of more practical use to me than
shading ten tons of wood-blocks.
What I needed was a series of busts of
Homer sitting in a row, each wearing a
different expression, so that I could study
the characteristic disturbance of features
in the acts of laughing, crying, sneezing,
etc. I needed a real life class with a
moving model, so that I could closely
observe just what happens when one
walks, and just what one can and cannot
do with arms and legs; a class for draw-
ing from memory at which I could
crystallise my impressions ; a class for the
analysis of character, at which I could
discover precisely in line such things as
what makes old people look old and
young people young ; and what it is that
makes a given person look different from
everybody else, and how that difference —
personality—may be most emphatically
rendered.
Meanwhile my drawing had become
almost a full-time job. Interest was now
a passion. I had the fire in my stomach
and I worked on my first regular assign-
ment, the two jokes a week for the
“Spectator,” with infinite pains and
delight.
At first my jokes followed the
customary pattern of British humor of
that time, with a local twist when
necessary. Basically New Zealand humor
was much the same as that of the Old
Country, since the traditions and conven-
tions that had come with the settlers
had been sustained by the regular flow
of imported British periodicals,
comedians and storytellers. Copyright
was vague and troublesome to enforce in
distant lands, so colonial editors supplied
themselves by scissors-and-paste when
they wanted generalised jokes.
But even before 1900 much of the
illustrated humor “lifted” from English
publications had begun to lose point for
second-generation native New Zealanders,
who failed to understand its English local
allusions or to appreciate its underlying
upper-middle-class assumptions.
By the time I came on the scene New
Zealanders were discovering their own
humor, not differing in pattern from the
English, but fitted to their own circum-
stances —jokes about local characters and
prominent citizens, with a strong personal
interest; jokes about local conditions, like
the difficulty of getting beer in prohibited
areas, or the bad state of the roads out-
back ; occupational jokes about shearers,
miners, farmers, etc.; and something
approaching protective satire in jokes
about simple New Zealand farmers out-
witting slick confidence-men from Sydney
or in plain jibes against remittance-men.
In those days New Zealand was one
of the dumping-grounds for wasters
kicked out to the colonies with a quarterly
allowance by their English families.
These remittance-men were popularly
GEORGE WHELCH
(Sculling was still a top sport when
Low drew this champion New
Zealander.)
supposed by chagrined New Zealanders
to be uppish and overlordly—a sore point
properly ripe for sublimation in jokes.
New Zealand cartoonists in the 1900’s
used to draw two kinds of Englishman —
one swell, one with buck teeth, tophat,
spats, monocle, called Featherstonehaugh
or Cholmondeley, who was always saying
“Bai Jove! ” and a somewhat thicker one
with a fat face and cap, the Pommy
immigrant, who said “Ow, I sy! ” Accord-
ing to the jokes, they tried to milk cows
at the wrong end and went out rabbiting
in golf-suits. If such local material were
occasionally to be illustrated the pictures
had to be drawn locally, too. It was
all very good exercise for an aspiring
comic-artist.
E CONTINUED to post drawings to
Australia and London on the off-
chance ; and a judicious placing of my
professional card had led to occasional
jobs such as letterheads, labels, plans,
showcards, crayon enlargements of snap-
shots, and a mural decoration.
One of my most curious productions
was a series of “stereoscopic” scenes of
the Burns-Johnson world-heavyweight
championship fight, for a slot-machine.
It gave satisfaction to the proprietor if
GEORGE CLIFFORD
“Maoriland’s Sporting Baronet."
not to the patrons. When later a
customer was shot dead during a brawl
at his Funfair he wanted me to do
another series depicting the story of the
tragedy. I appreciated the compliment,
but declined.
The other various tasks that came my
way I tackled with zest. To me each
was an interesting problem to be solved
for its own sake. The pay, never more
than a few shillings, was useful, but the
real reward was in the achievement.
Nevertheless, while money was the
measure of worth among my customers,
I did my best to see that the dignity of
my profession was not flouted by cheats.
Sometimes my methods were a little high-
handed. There was the time, for instance,
when I called on the proprietor of a
mushroom publication to collect the bill
he owed me for one month’s hard service
as his artist-of-all-work. He told me the
venture had not been a success and he
would not pay. The “agreement” he had
given me was a fake, and anyway I was
a minor without rights of litigation.
“I’ll —I’ll” I stuttered, choking
with rage.
“You’ll do nothing,” he said. “Why
don’t you take the furniture?” he said,
sarcastically.
I retired fuming, with an idea. Next
morning at five-o’clock, before the world
was awake, I and a carrier friend of mine
entered the building and carried off the
office desk in his cart, after thoughtfully
removing*the contents and placing them
tidily on the floor. We found the desk
a new home in the country at Riversleigh,
and I then returned to sniff the wind.
I ascended the stairs with beating heart.
There was my smart Northcliffe sitting
blue in the face, with his papers neatly
spread before him on the floor. I had
to laugh. “I could put you in jail!” he
says. And he could have. But after
half-an-hour’s mutual threatening, cursing
and twitting, the tension slackened. I
fitted him up with my old trestle-table
out of my “art-room” across the hall, and
we parted friendly. But I kept his desk.
I did my best to uphold also the honor
of my profession when necessary. There
is, and I suppose there always will be, a
romantic notion among the ignorant that
there is something vaguely immoral about
art and artists —especially comic-artists.
The ribald legend of Gillray and
Rowlandson dies hard. When I had a
telephone-call one day from a business-
man widely popular and admired I
warmed with pleasure and goodwill.
Would I go to see him, he could put a
job in my way? This was success.
Appreciation. I called. He wanted me to
make an illustration of some obscene
joke that had taken his fancy. So that
was what the stupid fool thought artists
were for? Damn! Damn! Damn! I went
white with rage. He was about thirty, I
was fifteen. But the occasion had to be
marked. His inkpot, conveniently full,
stood there and I took it and turned it
upside down on his desk, spat “There!
Now you can draw dirty pictures for
yourself,” and left.
THERE were precious few publishing
enterprises begun within reach of
Christchurch that did not find me waiting
on the doorstep. I was connected with
a monthly magazine, for which I painted
the colored cover, illustrated the serial
and short stories, provided the humorous
section and designed advertisements. On
publishing day, the proprietor, the editor
and I walked up and down Cathedral
Square flaunting copies so that the public
might think everybody was buying us,
but it was no go. The first number was
the last.
I drew anti-smoking and anti-gambling
cartoons for the Salvation Army “War
Cry”; and I was appointed occasional
police-court sketcher for “New Zealand
Truth,” a weekly newspaper specialising
in sensational crime and sex-news. I had
seen that “Truth” printed court drawings,
but never any from Christchurch, and I
decided to try my hand at it.
The fact that I was a boy of fifteen still
in short pants was a disadvantage. But
I had already learned that in journalism
one can enter a lot of places if one can
avoid being asked who one is. So, giving
a masterly impression of being a
messenger for somebody or other, I sailed
in with ease past the grim doorkeepers of
the Police Court and saw what I needed to
see. The editor in Wellington who
engaged me “blind” on the drawings I
made probably did not know what his
new artist —at five-bob a nob —was like.
He must have been surprised later to
hear of my being ignominiously turned
out of court because to one eagle eye
I had looked too young to remain during
the hearing of a divorce case. “Leave
the court! ” shouted Sergeant Scully.
Throughout my term as a court-artist
Sergeant Scully was my bete noire, with
his colleague Sergeant Bird a good second.
These two consistently sought to foil my
efforts. Whether it was that they con-
sidered my youthful presence at the
exposure of sordid life at a police-court
an outrage against public morals, against
the dignity of the court, or merely
against their own dignity, because I had
rubbed them up the wrong way in my
caricatures of their persons, I shall never
know. Certainly they were both
exceptionally good to draw. Scully had
sore eyes and an overhanging paunch;
Bird was tall, as thin as a skewer, with a
wee, wrinkled face.
The law was not always so
unsympathetic. It was a kind copper who
helped me on one memorable occasion to
trick up from an old Rogues’ Gallery
photograph a plausible drawing of a
notorious criminal in time to scoop the
press-photographers before they could
get to him. And I got on better in the
Supreme Court, especially after I had
put on long trousers., A press-photograph
of the court during a famous murder
trial of that time shows Mr. Justice
Denniston presiding in all his glory while
just below him, self-installed with the
cheek of the devil, wearing high collar
and black tie and carefully looking like
somebody’s secretary with a perfect right
to be there, sit I.
In this case, by the way, three toughs
were concerned but two turned King’s
Evidence and were pardoned. Two nights
later 1 had the queer luck to find myself
sitting one place away from these two
in the gallery of the theatre. They knew
me. They had seen their “pictures in the
paper.” And they had a peculiar glint in
their eyes as they watched me.
Remembering in time the British maxim
that the asperities of public life must
never be permitted to prejudice social
relations, I took the boys out and bought
them a soft-drink. Never did a lemonade
taste so full of lemon. They were not
wicked, just ignorant. My contact with
them, as with other crooks, was useful, as
founding a conviction that there is more
stupidity than wickedness in the world.
I kept my police-court sketching going,
on and off, for four years. It extended my
experience both as an artist and as a
human-being. In the old days, before the
law made it an offence to make draw-
ings in the British courts, the atmosphere
and conditions of a court were almost
ideal for the study of character in all its
diverse aspects.
N.Z. GOVERNOR PLUNKETT
BOTH of my parents had regarded my
drawing with sympathetic
indulgence, and when I succeeded in
having some work published they began
to doubt if they knew more than I did
about what my life should be. But an
artist was something new in our family,
and the artistic life was precarious and
scandalous, as was clearly to be learned
from Trilby, L’CEuvre and other con-
temporary novels.
They had both cherished a hope that
I might one day resume my formal educa-
tion and become something more
recognisably respectable, like a barrister,
a doctor or a clergyman. To please them
and to see if I could, I had a go. After
a couple of years at a business-college
which accommodated its hours to the
peculiar needs of its pupils, and with the
aid of an extremely absentminded
“coach,” I set out at sixteen to
matriculate.
I met complete failure. For several
reasons, the examiners didn’t ask me
On these pages are samples of the
work Low was already contribut-
ing to “The Bulletin” from N.Z.
—that is, before he was 20.
the questions I could answer. No
questions about the Peloponnesian Wars.
An essay on Modern Inventions I turned
into a tract against war with some success.
I was sunk without a trace in mathe-
matics. My Latin was unorthodox. I
failed dismally in drawing.
Something of the fiasco was undoubtedly
due not only to lukewarmness in my
{Continued on page 37)
DAVY BUDDO
N.Z. Minister of Internal Affairs.


m
I AC
registers®
FIRST
hortgage
oE benture
STOCK
7
o
m
FOR 5
tears
-
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly Income free of
exchange.
Principal paid In full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstance*
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £39,000,000.
Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and
Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock-
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to—
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. & A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and Australia's
Leading Hire Purchase Organisation—
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
’MM
m
m
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modern Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Mitchell nodded and said to
the men beside him: “Let’s go.”
He turned to speak to the
leader of eight-section, and was
surprised at the clear detail of
his face: at the bright blisters
of sweat which had burst into
pin-points of moisture all along
the upper lip; and he even
noticed the fine latticework in
the dusty pores of the brown
skin. Up on the tank the
Browning began to speak again ;
and, as though he agreed with its
message, Mitchell said: “Tell
the boys not to waste time on
those bastards in the paddies.
Let’s bash on and get this road
clear. The tank’ll take care of
any strays. Come on!”
They moved off, Mitchell and
Big Frank with his section on the
right, the other two sections
following closely. As they moved
the,clamor of war seemed to die
and the immediate world of the
advancing men was immersed in
the grind of the tank. But then
there came another, more
personal, noise. It sounded like
a nail being scraped quickly
over a pane of glass. Mitchell
saw two men crumple and fall;
somewhere another yelled, and
Mitchell hit the ditch in a
running dive. Big Frank
bounded past, his Owen-gun
stuttering in his great hands.
The weapon-pit from which
they had been fired-on was dug
into a wall-face sloping up from
the road to the orchard ; it was
hidden by a mat of dead leaves
and grass, but Frank had located
it. He emptied his Owen into
the mouth, and turned to lumber
back to the ditch. As he dropped
in beside Mitchell, panting
heavily, his Bren-gunner slammed
a full magazine into the pit;
abruptly, the Bren stopped firing,
and a Korean soldier burst out;
he ran about three steps, halted,
and crumpled slowly and heavily
to the ground. He lurched up
on to his hands and knees, and
crawled a yard or so, but the
Bren opened up again. He
shuddered from the impact of
the bullets, drew his body into
a tight ball of agony, then moved
no more.
TWJTTCHELL roared for the
f section to hold its fire. He
jumped up, ran forward, and
hurled a hand-grenade into the
pit-mouth; he didn’t stop
running as he threw the small
bomb, but turned in a half-circle
and scrambled back to the ditch.
As he was twisting in the
bottom he heard shouts and
confused firing ; three Koreans
had run from the pit to escape
the grenade and stepped into the
fire from the trench. Two fell
together, but one, miraculously
unhurt, dropped to his knees,
his arms wrapped around his
head as though for protection.
But it was poor protection
against the fury directed at him
and he collapsed weakly in
death, his head still cradled in
his arms. Behind him the
grenade in the pit exploded
sharply, and a wisp of blue
smoke spiralled out; it hung
in the opening, then the wind
snatched it away, as though to
indicate that life in the pit was
gone, too.
A strange quiet * followed,
where a few seconds before all
had been confusion ; in the lull
Mitchell hurried to where the
stretcher-bearers were bending
over three bodies. One was'
wounded and two were dead.
One of the dead, a youngster
called Robinson, looked peaceful
enough ; his face had the
expression of etherealised tran-
quillity which Mitchell had
seen sometimes on the stone
idols near Korean burial-
mounds. He looked peace-
ful and untroubled, but he was
dead, and Mitchell felt it keenly.
He looked down at the three
bodies for a moment, and across
his mind there flashed the words
which had made him grin—
what was it, fifteen minutes
before? “The white-hot crucible
of war” the dirty bloody
business, the sin, the murder . . .
He turned back to the others
beside the road who were ready
to advance.
The Bren-gunner of Big
Frank’s section was leading when
he fell on to his face, twitching,
and the men behind him were
pinned back. The Korean
machine-gun continued firing
directly along the ditch towards
them. They couldn’t move with-
out being cut down, but the
section on their left ran crouched
across the open track to fengage
the machine-gun crew.
There was a sharp, short fight
—all yells of fear and defiance,
the hot brassy smell of ammuni-
tion, the thick, blue reek of
cordite, and the hammering of
Owen- and Bren-guns. When it
was over, Mitchell motioned to
the men crouched in the ditch
behind him, and started to creep
forward.
As each man passed the gun-
position, his eyes fell, sometimes
in wonder or hatred, sometimes
even almost in fear at the
bloodied bundles which sprawled
around the shattered gun.
Mitchell, dragging his eyes for
a moment from the menace of
the ground ahead of them,
noticed that it was an old
Japanese weapon, with big, cast
wheels, and he felt a strange
pang of pity for the men who
had to fight, and who had fought
so valiantly, with such old and
outmoded equipment.
nrHE pimply-faced lad who
had been number-two on
the Bren-gun had taken over
the weapon and led on until he
came to a culvert which ran
directly across the road. He
peered around the edge of the
culvert, looked quickly inside,
then just as quickly withdrew his
head; he turned around and
beckoned excitedly.
Big Frank crawled up, spoke,
and took a grenade from his belt.
He drew back his hands, the
index-finger of his left hand
curled around the ring of the
safety-pin, and prepared to
throw the grenade into the
culvert. A sudden yell made him
look to the other side of the
road; he stood transfixed as
four children emerged from the
far end of the dark culvert and
stood blinking in the harsh light
of morning: they were terrified,
their hands clasped in pathetic
surrender above their heads.
The men looked at the
children, half-fearing to touch
them, until one, a taciturn man
of middle-age, moved over and
dropped to his knees. He made
soft cooing sounds, sounds
strangely incongruous in that
deadly place, and picked up
two of them, one in each arm.
He talked, trying to ease their
terror, but they only clung the
tighter to the coarse fabric of
his tunic. One, a tiny black-
haired creature, raised her head
to sneak a glance at him, then
quickly hid her face on his
shoulder again.
The other men, for a moment
forgetting their danger, began to
gather round the children, but
dispersed in hurried fright when
someone yelled and pointed to
the mortar-bombs that were
geysering grey clouds up the
road towards them; they threw
themselves into the ditch, and
between them got the children
back to the culvert as the mortars
burst around the tank.
Three of the bombs hit in the
paddy-fields and the men on
that side of the ditch were
showered with dirt and twigs, but
one bomb landed right on the
bank of the ditch: it ploughed
through the soft earth and into
the men huddled there. There
was a ringing roar of sound, then
a moment of silence. The
quietness was a tangible thing;
it was there waiting to be
broken; and the crisis of pain
which erupted from mauled men
in the trench shattered it. The
stretcher-bearers moved in
quickly.
Mitchell squinted up at the
sun, wondering how long it had
been since they started. He
shivered as a chill wind sped by
him; it seemed to shear among
the dead leaves in the ditch like
a knife. The hill was still a long
way off. As he looked up at the
sun again he wondered vaguely
how the rest of the battalion
were going, and if he should get
moving again.
Automatically he started. It
was something that happened of
its own. volition ; a state of mind
geared to emergency by long
years of service. The men of
the sections followed, as naturally
as he had given the initiative,
but after an advance of only a
hundred yards all were forced
to halt as they came to where
four horses, all of them badly
wounded, stood on the road.
/~\NE had been ripped from
neck to haunches with a
burst of machine-gun fire and
stood with the others, a picture
of inarticulate suffering. The
tank-commander didn’t want to
go through; he indicated his
predicament, and several of the
men got out of the ditch and
tried to pull the horses aside.
They had almost got them
moving when a splatter of
bullets kicking-up dust on the
road drove them back to cover.
There was no alternative now ;
the tank approached the horses
and roared in front of them.
The animals couldn’t, or
wouldn’t, move, and the tank
rammed through, brushing aside
all bqJt one. With one of its
legs jammed between the track
and the side of the tank it was
lifted clear off the ground and
hurled right over the body of the
vehicle. It gave a great scream
and was smashed, dust-
enveloped, to the ground.
Big Frank, crouched beside
Mitchell, cursed bitterly, his eyes
and mouth screwed up tightly
with revulsion. Mitchell felt
nausea rippling in his stomach,
but forgot it as a louder, harsher
sound drowned the shrill outcry
of the mangled animal.
Fighter-planes had arrived to
help them, and turned swift in
the sky, belting rocket- and
cannon-fire into the enemy hills.
Simultaneously a Korean
soldier burst from the apple-
orchard and ran towards the
road. No one fired at him and
he reached the ditch and fell
in beside the men there. He
began to cry, and pointed back
along the way he had come.
It looked as though one of the
other companies, fighting through
the orchard, was really doing
some damage among the enemy
who had holed-up there. The
surrender of this lone soldier
seemed to be a signal for many
others to lay down their arms,
to stream out of the orchard, all
with their hands clasped above
their heads in abject acceptance
of the defeat which had suddenly
come where victory had seemed
so certain.
At first alone, then in small
groups, and finally an
astonished, shocked rabble, they
began to walk back along the
road to captivity. Mitchell,
standing beside the road, heard
a hail from the tank; he ran
over and' the tank-commander
pointed up the road to a small
bridge. He yelled: ‘'Have a look
for mines!”
Big Frank joined Mitchell and,
covered by the tank, they moved
together up to the bridge.
Mitchell hugged the earth which
sloped down from the road to
the clear stream below; as he
stooped to go under the bridge
he pulled back hurriedly and
threw himself to one side: a
body was lying curled up on one
bank.
TVrOTHING happened. Nothing
moved. He looked around
the cover of the bridge-supports
again and saw two men lying
face-down in the water ; their
heads bobbed slightly with the
ripple of the water as it washed
over the rocks and pebbles.
Mitchell stepped right under
the bridge and on to the bank ;
as he looked down at the three
dead soldiers, all the fire and
all the madness of the past action
died from him. Even the death
of young Robinson, which had
seemed so futile up there on
that road, seemed now to have
a reason.
Frank clambered down from
the road and stood beside
Mitchell. They both looked at
the dead enemy, saying nothing.
It was a cool, deep, green
place, down under the bridge. A
place for summer happiness and
laughter, not for death as winter
approached. Yet two men lay
face-down in the clear stream,
and up on the bank another lay
fouled and dirtied in his own
blood.
Frank shook his head, half in
disbelief, and turned to help
Mitchell search under the bridge-
supports for anti-tank mines.
They found none, and the job
was finished. Mitchell grasped
the arm of his big friend and
urged him back up the slope.
They found the road stream-
ing with prisoners, and up
ahead American soldiers were
coming down out of the hill
which such, a short time ago had
seemed so far away. They
walked tiredly, half-hesitantly,
as though they had not expected
to leave what must have seemed
to many of them their funeral-
pile.
Mitchell looked beyond the
Americans and beyond the hill
they were coming from. He saw
that the appearance of the sky
had changed; the mountains,
which had been blue and in-
distinct earlier, were standing out
now with clarity, the tops onty
draped with cloud. He looked
back behind him, along the road,
and saw the grey files of his
countrymen advancing.
T T NEXPECTEDLY, Frank
grasped him by the arm and
swung him around, staring into
his face for a moment before he
spoke.
“That’s your bloody white-
hot crucible,” he said. “Oh God,
those horses! ”
“Yeah,” Mitchell said. “The
horses. We’re blooded! ”
He turned around again and
with Big Frank beside him
started across the bridge to meet
the Americans.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Kodak
HOBBY GIFTS
TO CREATE A LIFETIME INTEREST!
m
Taking the picture
* only half th e fan-
Kodak, ,
** N OTO /HOBBY /Ourpfr
kOD “L obb y OUtfW
™ D ZT OPRmou ™
OWn n °aative S ‘ n a n f er L , ° Pr!nt the! '
necessary a!ds $ h y ; With a/j
~0n book. p W< £ CO ”P'y° ins, rue
KODACRAFT
Sfron R 0U 'HLM TANK
room tpBC(a ' dark.
"ecejsary. p RICE .
IUSCA
tHIARGW
W.v >"«
enU(9' n ®
your own snap-
shots wUVi *»
b eauV,^y^ dc '
easv-to-ope^
UM. « 7/ '%
viilhou* tens,
£l6/10/-
FROM KODAK STORES & KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Out for a Dip
By BERNARD HARRIS
MY cousin Rupert was
nothing if not a leader ;
and when Hum m y
McDermott came
from the city to live, with much
to say about “Eppin’ ” and
“Hornsbree,” it seemed that
Rupert would soon have to take
his place behind Slipper, his
mongrel dog.
Hummy regaled us with,
among numerous other matters,
the epic of his mastery of the
“Enfield” crawl; but the first
time he came bathing with us,
the nearer he got to the Tarhole,
the less enthusiastic he became
about his accomplishment until,
by the time we were ready to
plunge, he was having faint
doubts about his ability to
remember all the fine points of
the art.
The Tarhole, where we swam
with one foot on the bottom
patiently awaiting the day
when we would suddenly realise
we could dispense altogether with
such an accessory, was a long,
narrow pool always well-filled
with waste from the gasworks,
a somewhat thick, heavily-
scented, highly-seasoned, irri-
tating, but no doubt antiseptic,
substance mellowed by brackish
spring-seepage from the hill.
It was, deep enough to make an
end of Hummy. His “Enfield”
crawl having broken down at
the crucial moment when he had
entered the big end, where
Rupert had encouraged him to
stray, he began to ship the strong
liquid in such quantities that he
became flabbergasted and water-
logged and had to be pulled out.
While Cousin Rupert and I
were completing fhe rescue and
the victim was trying to get his
breath and to explain that he
remembered now there was just
one little action he had missed,
Wocker Wills gave a yell which
caused all of us, eyen Hummy
in the throes of his crisis, to duck
instinctively. Then any one of us
who cared to turn and look
behind as we beat a hasty retreat
—Hummy and all, up the gully
—would have seen a long, lean,
camel-lipped man swoop on our
clothes, scoop them up and
shake them triumphantly at us.
“Youse pinch my fruit,” he
called out in his high, nosy
voice at our retreating backs, “I
pinch your clothes.” . ,
TI7OR the hurried moments of
our getaway the few thread-
bare garments we had abandoned
didn’t seem of much importance
compared with our freedom.
We raced down the creek until
we reached a spot where the high
banks ended, when we all
snatched a moment to appraise
the situation in our rear and, in
the process, halted and crouched
down.
“He ain’t gunna foller,” said
Rupert.
Old Snig Doughty, the booty
tucked firmly under his ape-
length arm, was striding away
across the paddock towards the
house, not even bothering to
see whetje we were making.
“He’ll burn our duds for
sure,” said Hummy, having
recovered remarkably from his
semi-drowned condition to take
charge of proceedings.
“So long as he don’t give ’em
to that bitch of a sergeant,”
said Wocker, who was so
agitated that he had immediately
to sneak back to the Tarhole for
a long drink.
“He’ll wait till we go and claim
them, then he’ll have us,” said
Rupert.
“Like hell he’ll have us,” said
Hummy with great assurance,
“because we’ll never go to him
like that, not us, we won’t,
never!”
Wocker began to echo the
noble sentiment, but trailed off,
as if some inkling of our true
predicament were a 1 ready
coloring his thoughts.
Even the greatest savage of a
boy is alive to the impropriety of
wandering at large unclothed;
but not even the most sensitive
soul can fully realise what an
untold blessing clothes are until
he finds himself at ten in the
morning, in the middle of a
comparatively bare tract of
cocky grazing-land, a mile from
home without any.
There were rushes along the
creek that might have been
fashioned into a good grass-
skirt ; but there was to hand
remarkably little of anything
else, even of bark and leaves,
that might have appealed to us
as material for any kind of a
garment.
“We’d be jake if we could get
near the tip,” said Rupert
wistfully.
“That’s no good,” said
Hummy. “That’s further than
home. What we shoulda done
was mob him while we had the
chance.”
Nobody ventured a comment,
but the heavy silence suggested
that the rest of us were beginning
to realise how far short of the
“Hornsbree” ideal we really
were.
“Who pinched his fruit, any-
way?” Hummy asked presently.
We all had a good look at
each other before arriving at the
obvious conclusion that we were
entirely innocent of Old Snig’s
charge. But the point was
immaterial, for none of us was
likely to attempt to demonstrate
this to our accuser, even Hummy
for once failing to rise to the
occasion.
\X7E sat there for some time,
W gazing about enviously at
a few well-covered cows and an
old overwoolled ram near by.
There was perhaps a covetous
glance or two cast on the
shaggy hide of Slipper, who lay
panting unconcernedly in our
midst.
“If we could even catch a few
rabbits !” said Rupert, who
knew as well as Slipper did that
no respectable rabbit ever ven-
tured within half-a-mile of the
Tarhole.
“Hang the tip and the
rabbits,” said Hummy.
“They won’t get our duds back,
and that’s the main thing. You
can go round to the tip if you
like and find a kero.-tin and go
home in it; but I want my own
duds, and without begging for
them either, and I’m going to
get them.”
For one reason or another the
rest of us wanted-our clothes
back too, but not one of us
could bring himself to brave the
frontal attack Hummy advo-
cated ; and after a lengthy
discussion, in which Rupert lost
more ground than he had ever
before lost in one sitting, we
talked Hummy out of it, in the
process coming to the conclusion
that, since no plan we could
devise for the recovery of our
property by stratagem would be
likely to allow for our present
state of undress, we had to pro-
vide ourselves as soon as
possible with some emergency
covering.
So we began to scout round
the vicinity, in the process dis-
covering on the one hand how
remarkably open and lacking in
anything resembling a decent
discarded garment the country
was, and on the other how full
it was of cockies and their
families. We sneaked about,
even crawling in difficult places,
until we came upon a bag with
the remains of a dead cat .in it
which Wocker, either more
modest or more broadminded
than the rest of us, promptly
emptied and put on.
Then Wocker scouted far and
wide and found an old piece of
canvas for Rupert. It was some
time before Wocker and Rupert,
venturing farther afield,
provided Hummy and me with
what had once been part of a
handsome horse-rug and some
almost brand-new binder-twine.
“If we set fire to the ’ouse,
we’d soon shift ’em for long
enough,” said Hummy as he
ventured an upright stance in his
part of the horse-rug, and, find-
ing the exercise reasonably safe,
assumed the “Eppin’ ” pose
which beat Rupert’s bush-
slouch into a cocked-hat.
“All I know is,” said Rupert,
“it’s Saturday, and if they go
into town before we get our
duds, we’ll have to wait till they
come back. Old Bub’ll even
lock her closet, for sure.”
The prospect of waiting till
they came back daunted us so
much that even the most timid
of us was ready to listen to any-
thing likely to redeem our
clothes before lunch, but it was
some time before a feasible plan
came to light. . This had its
beginnings in the fact that we
found a frill-necked lizard ; and
it was Rupert’s idea, though
Hummy instantly adopted it as
his own and set about imple-
menting it.
T>ACK at the Tarhole we put
in the finishing touches.
Then Wocker, who had an
uncanny way with crawling
things of all kinds, carried the
lizard in one direction; and
Rupert dragged his dog Slipper,
which seemed bent on staying to
eat the reptilian part of our
conspiracy, in the other.
Hummy and I, unencumbered
except for our uniform, wriggled
our way to the top of the hill
behind the house and dug-in to
wait our cue.
The scene did not long remain
inactive. From the bottom of
the paddock came a series of
screeches and yelps. One old
cow and then the other began
to prance about, sometimes
running from, sometimes
charging at, Slipper, who had
been skitched-on as only Rupert
could skitch him on. A few
startled or petulant bellows
(Continued on next page)


mm
*
■
%. % M
&
m
sss
mm
45WJ
tfty advice to Vou
/
Excuse me for just a moment. There are one or two important
things I’d like to say —c and I’m, sure you’ll be interested.
I want to introduce Crusader’s new 1955-56 range of modern
suitings. I’ve seen some pretty attractive cloths in my time.
But, for quality, weave, distinctive patterns and pleasing
shades, these top them all.
For 47 years, the Crusader Mills have been producing cloth that
compares more than favourably with the world’s best. This
year, however, they have excelled themselves.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, they have created a wide,
rich range of suitings, every one of
which is guaranteed pure wool,
guaranteed to give years of hard
wear, and guaranteed never to fade
or shrink. In other words, guar-
anteed quality.
So, if you want the smartest suit
in town, take my advice . . . ask
your tailor to show you the new
Crusader Pattern Bools.
I^"2r*y
aapstuj)
Jianoa
iisnoa
JTrp?d<^
Ur us after floth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 5.115
greatly enhanced the per-
formance.
Without undue delay Old
Snig showed himself on the
veranda and, taking-in the
situation in a long, sweeping
glance, went bellowing his way
into the house and quickly re-
emerged with a shotgun. Down
the paddock he flat-footed at the
double, yelling threats at the
dog and encouragement to the
cows, and brandishing the gun
as if at any moment he meant to
discharge both barrels.
As we sat waiting for Wocker
to do his bit, I began to feel
weak, and I might have frozen
there and spoiled everything if
Hummy hadn’t been there beside
me, only too ready to brave the
shotgun and the consequences
in our raid on the house.
Old Snig had not gone ten
yards when every head of
poultry on the run near the barn
began to cackle and crow in
scared concert, for all the world
as if a nervous jew-lizard had
been thrown amongst them.
Almost at the same moment
the cocky’s wife came hurrying
out the front door and headed
for the barn.
Instantly Hummy was on his
feet and somehow I was on my
feet beside him, both slinking
down the hill until we reached
a spot where the house came in
between us and the landed
gentry, when we threw off all
caution and sprinted fast.
We had worked it all out, and
Hummy had approved of every
detail of it. I had the easy job,
a quick tour of the outhouses,
while he had the task of honor —
the search of the house itself.
Wocker, not one to* harbor
delusions about the st|fle of his
own wardrobe, had expressed
the opinion that Old Snig would
not stow our clothes in a drawer
or cupboard where they could
contaminate decent garments, but
would drop them in some corner
where they could easily be seen ;
and I was quite happy to base
my search on this opinion and
thus get it over without delay.
As I halted near the dairy,
Hummy ran past me towards the
house ; and that was the last I
was to see of him for some
considerable time. The dairy
was as clean as a new pin, too
clean for Old Snig' to dream of
putting our clothes there. I
quickly searched the lavatory,
the wash-house and the bathroom
in that order, and then hurried to
the wood-shed at the side of
the house. From outside the
wood-shed door I saw our pile of
rags sitting on the end of a
bench.
But even before relief had
begun to cure my nervous shakes
something made me look over
my shoulder, and there was the
woman stepping on to the front
veranda.
In the same glance I saw that
she had not gone to investigate
the upheaval in the fowl-run at
all but to let loose four long,
skinny cattle-dogs, which were
now hungrily leaping down the
paddock.
TF I had felt nervous before, 1
was beside myself now, even
though the hounds were not
making for me but towards
Rupert, Wocker, Slipper and the
lizard ; and the woman was not
in the act of discovering me but
of descending on the unsuspect-
ing Hummy as he courageously
cased the house.
I could not have said which
filled me with most alarm—the
dogs, which Old Snig was
reported never to feed but to let
off the chain once a week to
pick up what they could for
themselves, or the woman, of
whom, it was common know-
ledge, even Old Snig himself was
scared. At the same moment I
saw too late the flaw in our plan,
Wocker could have thrown a
dozen lizards in with the fowls,
and she would have been none
the wiser, being stone-deaf.
I gave a yell as I picked up
the clothes ; then I ran to the
back door.
“Get going, Hummy! Bub’s
back! ” I yelled ; and then,
realising that it would be sheer
heroism to linger, I took to my
heels up the hill and flopped
down in the depression whence
we had launched our attack.
Slipper, the cows, Old Snig
and two lean, slavering dogs
were performing loudly on the
fiat below; and the hens, the
lizard and the other lean dogs
ivere still performing behind the
barn ; but the house was
peaceful, and there was no sign
of Hummy anywhere.
Whatever she had done to him
she had done without undue fuss,
A shot rang out, followed
“Why, Jimmy, you re gone more like your brother than
what he is himself.”
immediately by an unearthly
yelping which, from its tone and
the way it receded, indicated that
Slipper had stopped few, if any,
of the pellets and was being
urgently driven by his healthy
respect for firearms from the
scene. There was another shot,
accompanied by a piercing cry
which I hoped did not emanate
from my cousin Rupert; and
then Old Snig burst into view
beyond the house, chasing his
dogs towards the fowl-house and
reloading as he went.
Somehow I still seemed too
close to the house for safety;
so, not without a pang at having
to leave Hummy alone to what-
ever was being meted out to him
inside the house, I went sneaking
along the ridge, over a fence out
of Snig’s property, and along a
gully, where I halted long enough
to put my clothes on, never for
a moment taking my eyes off
the house in case Hummy
should show up.
Then, my morale remarkably
strengthened by the clothes I
even debated whether I should
return alone and make some sort
of a sally aimed at Hummy s
relief, but in the end thought
better of it and, still keeping a
good eye out for him, began to
work my way round towards the
° r A s ar i ’ proceeded, the barking
and the shouting gradually faded
into the distance, indicating that
Rupert, Wocker and perhaps the
lizard, too, had followed Slipper
in his strategic withdrawal from
the scene of operations. By the
time ,1 had reached the rendez-
vous everything seemed quiet,
the cows feeding as if they had
never been disturbed in their
lives and the fowls making no
sound at all that I could hear.
I waited for a long time,
watching the house for a sign
of Hummy and listening for a,
sound of the others. Old Snig
came plodding back to tie-up
dogs which seemed to have had a
good meal, making me wonder
still more urgently how Rupert,
Wocker,. Slipper and the lizard
had fared,
AT last Wocker, his tongue
hanging out and begging
water, put in an appearance. The
moment he saw the clothes his
tongue went in, his face broke
into a smile., he seemed to forget
his worries and his thirst and he
lost no time divesting himself
of his bag and donning trousers
and shirt.
“Where’s the others?” he
asked.
“Bub caught Hummy inside,”
I said, the full significance of
this event just now dawning on
me as I saw the horror grow in
his eyes.
“He’s a goner,” he said, and
he had to go and scout round
for a quick drink.
We stayed there watching the
house, which stood peacefully
and serenely under the midday
heat. Rupert turned up, minus his
canvas skirt and rather the worse
for wear; but there was neither
hair nor hide of Hummy; and
presently a stage was reached
when it was embarrassing to
look at his pitiful heap of clothes
lying among us.
“They can’t keep him there
like this,” Wocker protested.
“It’s agin the law.”
But they were keeping him
there, a fact which, coupled with
a recollection that Aunt
Anastasia, Rupert’s mother, had
never “put anything past them”
in her life, made the most
horrible of my suspicions seem
real and just. There was no
getting away from the bald
comparison of ourselves crouch-
ing fearfully in hiding, with
Hummy suffering none of us
knew what frightful ordeals for
his courage ; and Rupert, crouch-
ing as thoroughly as the rest
of us, must have felt, if he ever
felt anything at all, that he would
be wise now to give up the fight
and meekly take his place behind
Slipper, always provided that
Hummy managed to survive.
Everyone started and made
ready to toe the line when Old
Snig eventually appeared, caught
a horse which he harnessed to a
sulky in the barn and drove up
to the house.
“They’ll take him and give
him in charge to the sergeant,”
said Wocker, somewhat relieved.
But it was not Hummy that
Old Snig presently lugged out of
the house, but a big bag which
he installed in the boot with as
much care as he took to settle
his wife on the seat.
In uneasy silence we watched
them go.
“They’ve left him locked in the
’ouse,” said Rupert hopefully,
his concern for Hummy’s safety
completely overriding his sense
of rivalry.
THE back door was wide open
and nothing locked at all
except Old Snig’s tool-box.
We went through the house
from back to front; we searched
(Continued on page 4J)


OnotoK
...the Pen that says
Merry Christmas”
for a Lifetime!
ES*
<fe
r
&
V
100%
polythene
filling system
is non-perishable
and virtually
\everlasting
Transparent
section in barrel
ensures you are
never caught
with empty or
failing pen
guaranteed
completely
non-corrodible
in new filling
system
Holds more
ink than any
other pen sold
in Australia, but
has slender
\ lines
Absolutely
no rubber or
other perishable
material used
in the filling
system
Amazing '
new nib
flexibility that
puts character
back into
handwriting
V
e MMt fills the amazing New Onoto “K”
The non-corrodible, non-perishable filling system fills with a simple twist of the
wrist ... no messy unscrewing or hit-and-miss squeeze filling. Onoto “K” holds
more ink than any other pen—transparent section in barrel ensures you are never
caught with an empty or failing pen. Onoto “K” is a lifetime pen that will
always be there to say Merry Christmas. Available from stores everywhere!
QNGTO “K” PENS FROM 57/6 TO 130/-. PEN & PENCIL SETS TO 198/6. OTHER ONOTO PENS FROM 28/6.
Thomas Do La Rue & Co. Ltd., London. Distributors: Norman Baker & Longhurst Ply. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne.
K 5.83
They Had Their Moments
Those “Good Old Days”
By GAVIN CASEY
PEOPLE have been debunk-
ing “the good old days”
for years, and there’s a lot
in what some of them
have said. But they have perhaps
overdone it a bit, giving the
young an impression that every-
thing that happened more than
about five-minutes ago is
ludicrous.
Actually, it wasn’t a bad world
I lived in for just seven years
before World War I. There were
some people around who didn’t
get a fair deal, but there weren’t
so many, and there are still some.
There was a widespread idea
then that the world had become
so civilised that there would
never be another major war.
We’ve found out all about that
since ; but at the time the notion
got such a grip that a large num-
ber of Australians not only held
it, but actually tried to act like
civilised folk themselves. Among
these, I believe, were my parents,
and they and their friends, and
the people who worked for them
and for whom they worked,
enjoyed a kind of social demo-
cracy that is now rare, even if
the condition of economic
democracy was low.
My father’s best friend was
R. G. C, Shaw, Treasurer of the
Kalgoorlie Municipal Council,
and as Dad was Town Surveyor
in the same organisation the pair
might be reckoned equals in
social and financial matters, and
likely to have many similar
interests. But two others of his
closest friends were the little
barber who gave me my first
haircut, and a gaunt, hawk-nosed,
vigorous old gentleman who fol-
lowed peaceful ways as the
town’s leading cleaner, presser
and dyer.
The barber had a name of
twelve letters, and a clock in his
saloon had the letters on its dial
instead of numerals. This
seemed to me, when I was very
young, the most marvellous
device ever worked-out by
humanity, *and I never ceased
to wonder at Mr. Thorn-
borough’s good luck in having
twelve letters in his name. But
it was not, of course, the clock
that attracted Dad.
What he liked about Thorn-
borough was that before he was
a barber, while he was a barber
and when he wasn’t barbering he
was always a man of thought, of
good humor, and of good talk.
Like scattered millions at the
time, he was a keen student of
Esperanto, the universal lan-
guage which, they thought, would
set the final seal on civilisation
and the brotherhood of all men.
As for the dyer, I don’t know
if Esperanto was one of his
interests, but he had plenty, other
than making last year’s summer
frocks look different for this
year’s. He had travelled the
world, and seemed to me
to have read everything that
was ever written. He could
quote by the mile, and did
so loudly and emotionally,
and to the neglect of trade,
whenever Dad or some of their
other cronies came near him.
Like my father, he was a
staunch Bulletin reader, and a
fiery supporter of the vigorous
school of Australian writers of
the day—not only Lawson,
“Banjo” and the few others
whose works survive, but the
multitude of almost-forgotten
ones who were good enough to
deserve a better fate. What The
Bully said, and what was in the
latest “Lone Hand,” loomed up
very early in my life as being
among the most important things
of which men could think and
talk.
At home, we had a succession
of “girls” who valued themselves
at about 10s. a week and meals.
The dreadful exploitation of
these poor slaveys has in modern
times caused much indignation,
but the ones at our place, and at
the homes of our friends, seemed
quite unaware that they should
be pitied. They had the
enormous appetites that are
normal for young girls, and
these were well satisfied. They
waved a broom or a duster about
occasionally, but they spent most
of the time playing with me or
talking to my mother while she
did the work.
Most of them left before long,
without any particular discon-
tent, because for them the
period as a “girl” was a sort of
an interval between school and
more serious work or marriage
plans. When they got a chance
for the sort of work they really
wanted, or when they were
needed at home, they simply said
a polite good-bye and left.
“All right, all right—I merely borrowed the thing.”
Nearly all our girls became my
mother’s friends for the rest of
her life. One went on to become
a mature and charming woman
with an important job managing
a major department in a big
store. Mother taught a few to
play the piano, and tactfully
instructed others in small things
their own mothers apparently
knew little about.
It was, in that place and that
time, considered a very real
advantage for a lass who be-
longed to a very poor family to
spend a few months or perhaps
a year in “a good home.” They
ate with the rest of us, and were
mostly quick to learn good table-
manners and better speech if they
lacked them when they came.
What it amounted to was a
few more months of education
in things the State schools
weren’t worried about, with
plenty of good tucker and some
pocket-money thrown in.
Our only other domestic help
was the inevitable washerwoman,
for one day a week, and she, like
the girls, did much to broaden
the horizons of any small chil-
dren around the place. The
washerwomen’s tales over the
morning and afternoon teacups
with Mother were something to
listen to. The poor dears had
shiftless husbands, invalid hus-
bands, boozing husbands, bash-
ing husbands, runaway husbands,
and husbands they wished would
run away. They had husbands of
every kind except hard-working,
strong, reliable ones.
Their fate, as judged from
their own laments, seemed awful
at the time. But most of them
had a great capacity for tea and
laughter. They were clean and
self-respecting, and they had
clean, well-tended kiddies with
whom I used to play. Though
the modem washing-machine is
a mechanical marvel, the old-
fashioned washerwomen were
much more interesting conver-
sationalists. They worked hard,
but it killed few.
I do not for a moment suggest
that it is possible or desirable to
restore this way of life, but while
it lasted it wasn’t a bad one for
the people in all income-groups
in a thriving goldfields town, and
it must have been so in many
other places. We didn’t have a
lot of things almost everybody
has nowadays, but we’d never
heard of or imagined them, so
we didn’t miss them.
One thing we did have, as we
grew older, was a view of where
we stood in the community, a
view which prevented the emerg-
ence of any groups like the
modern “bodgie” cult. We had
not been advertised and bally-
hooed into the belief that we
were a separate, distinct and
cruelly misunderstood teenage
group in society.
We had the natural problems
of adolescence without any extra
ones grafted on. We saw our-
selves simply as big boys who
would soon be men, and we
wanted to be men, with the size
and strength and skills and use-
fulness of our fathers and the
friends of our fathers.
Many of us were so impatient
about it that we tried to act like
men too soon, with occasional
queer and humiliating results.
But we didn’t try to act like some
strange new species of long-
haired, overdraped, jitterbugging
milk-bar cowboys.
When I was a young man there
was an evening and weekend
uniform for the lad-about-town.
For most of the year in that
hot climate it was cream slacks,
the jacket of a blue serge suit,
and a straw-decker hat. The girls
approved, and our parents didn’t
mind if we all looked alike
except for different spacings and
characteristics of freckles and
pimples. We looked like
normally vain young men who
would soon be older, not like a
bunch of freaks.
My father died when I was
ten, and I lavished my admira-
tion on many of the fathers of
my pals. There was one who was
a kindly giant and a bushman
without peer, another with
talents of eloquence and humor,
a third who’d been a swimming
champion and could still beat all
but a few over 100yds. There
were others, all admirable models
in my eyes, and I doubt if I
would find them anything else
today.
In those unhurried times men
always seemed to have plenty of
time to spare for a boy, to tell
him something, teach him some-
{Continued on page 43)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Fauna Protection
Reports of increased smuggling of
finches out of the N.T. for sale in
southern States emphasises the need to
put our fauna-protection on a national
basis.
Police in the N.T. have confiscated
more than 5000 finches in the past few
months, and the other week six men were
convicted in Katherine (N.T.) on charges
of stealing, possession of or smuggling
finches. The attraction of the trade is
understandable —finches, which are pro-
tected birds in the Territory, are market-
able in Victoria and N. S. Wales for as
much as £2 a pair.
There are similar anomalies in regard
to other species of birds and animals, so
that the States, working independently
and without cohesion, are being continu-
ally frustrated in their efforts to protect
wildlife.
If the Commonwealth has no powers
in the matter, surely the States can reach
agreement on a uniform code, so that the
marketing of birds and animals protected
in any State is prohibited in all. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
Crash Helmets
The Maoriland Government appears to
be going off half-cocked with its legisla-
tion to compel motor-cyclists to wear
safety-helmets.
On the face of it, the argument for
“battle-bowlers” appears to be pretty
sound. If a man is going to hit his head,
a crash-hat will prevent a fractured skull.
What is not so obvious is that it won’t
prevent concussion, and there is an
increased risk of a broken neck. This is
supported by the latest figures issued by
the Road Research Laboratory in
England.
In 1955, one in three British motor-
cyclists wore safety-helmets. Of those
killed on the roads, 399 were wearing
helmets and 747 were not. The odds are
slightly in favor of the non-wearers.
Remember, too, that it is probably the
more responsible type of rider who buys
a helmet.
Even if it could be shown that crash-
hats do improve a rider’s chances, it
would be difficult to prove that they pre-
vented accidents. The overall reduction
in accidents to motor-cyclists since helmets
became popular is principally due to the
low demand for high-powered machines
and the popularity of lightweight run-
abouts.
South Australia’s police-chiefs are to
be commended for refusing to be
stampeded into adopting safety-helmets
for their police-patrols.—Burr Imul
(S.A.).
Two Leaders
Looking down from the gallery in the
House of Reps, when the Prime Minister
made his statements on the Middle East
(Suez) situation I was struck by the con-
trast presented by the P.M. and his
opposite-number on the other side of the
table.
Mr. Menzies, immaculately groomed;
not a hair on his silvered head out of
place. Dr. Evatt, sloppily dressed; his
white hair like a feather-duster in a wind.
That supreme authority on male dress, the
“Tailor and Cutter” of London, would
probably comment approvingly of Mr.
Menzies. Undoubtedly it would refer in
both sorrow and anger to the attire of
the Leader of Her Majesty’s Opposition
in the Commonwealth of Australia.
The contrast went further than these
externals. The P.M.’s written statement
was a neat quarto block; as his speech
proceeded the turned pages made an
equally neat block. The speech itself
was precise ; marked by clarity and made
without repetition, except when a phrase
was repeated deliberately for emphasis.
Dr. Evatt’s notes, a loose heap of pages
of various sizes, were occasionally out of
order, necessitating some fumbling. And
the speech, although one of the best
the Leader of the Opposition has made in
the House, was accompanied by a waving
of paper and no little repetition and
addressed wholly to the Opposition
benches. That is to say, he faced and
waved to the left; never once addressing
the Government benches directly. Pro-
bably some of his followers needed
convincing.—G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
Diesel Traction
Diesel-electric locomotives really have
proved their economic advantage over
steam during the brief time they have
been operating in Queensland —Minister
for Railways Duggan has stated that, by
the use of 95 per cent, of diesel-engines
on the Toowoomba-Brisbane section,
£200,000 a year will be saved.
An impressive improvement has resulted
from the use of diesels, particularly in the
transport of livestock. In N. S. Wales, the
average speed of livestock trains on a
4ft. B|in. gauge is 15.9 miles an hour. In
Queensland, with steam-trains, it is 15.6
miles an hour, and 20 miles an hour with
diesels.
A diesel-electric is overhauled once
every three years at a cost of £7OOO. In
the same period a BBlBi steam-loco,
needs two overhauls, the combined cost
of which is £16,050.
There is the further advantage that
diesel-locos, hauling the Sunlander or
goods-trains from Brisbane to Cairns can
go the full journey without being changed.
On the other hand, steam-locos, must be
changed six times on the trip. They must
stop ever 30 miles for water and every
200 miles for coal, whereas diesels only
require refuelling around Mackay.—
Clem Lack (Q.).
Extra Jobs
Now that the labor position has
changed to a degree where an employer
can hire and fire with some selection, a
study of staff-performance charts is
illuminating.
One survey covered the reasons for the
popularity of the permanent afternoon-
shifts and night-shifts in light industries,
including textiles.
Five hundred employees were checked.
Of these 380 had two 40-hour jobs a
week. They had selected employment
which offered suitable day work and
permanent late shifts. The popular hours
were 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. to
3 p.m. in group “a,” and 6 a.m. to 2 p.m.
and 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. in group “b.” In
addition, 40 of the 380 did some
concreting and terrazzo work at weekends,
The other 120 all had two jobs averag-
ing 13 hours a day. A complete shift
of women employed in a radio-factory
finished an eight-hour shift at 4.15 p.m.
and then worked from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m.
in a textile-mill.
Husband-and-wife duos on opposite
shifts in the same factory were common.
“All right , madam—one more lap and then you must decide whether
or not the jodhpurs jit”
Babies and toddlers were frequently
handed over at the time-clocks.
The best effort was three regular jobs
a day. This chap worked from 10 p.m.
to 6 a.m. He then drove his car to the
city and signed-on as breakfast chef at a
leading hotel. At 10 a.m. he put up taxi-
plates and operated from a city stand
until 4 p.m. His brother took-over the
taxi while he had a sleep. Plates down,
the cycle started again at 10 p.m.
The reasons for such exertion? Thirty-
five per cent, (mostly southern Europeans)
were sending money out of the country;
35 per cent, were building or buying
a house ; 26 per cent, had to do it to meet
h.-p. commitments; four per cent, were
trying to beat the books.
This particular survey covered a small
convenient cross-section in one area. The
total doing the same thing in all industrial
areas would be formidable.—S. C. F.
(S.A.).
Strange ?
It is strange that, in our present
economic set-up, a bank is about die last
place at which one can obtain credit. A
request for accommodation to develop
land and improve production will meet
with a polite but firm refusal.
Conversely, finance is available for a
large part of the cost of pleasure-vehicles
—one recent ad. even offered a certain
make of car without deposit.
Very small, if any, deposits are required
for radios, TV-sets and household gadgets,
and finance for their purchase appears
unlimited at flat rates much in excess of
bank-interest.
How can our economists and politicians
reconcile these facts with their oft-
expounded policy of greater production
for export and less expenditure on con-
sumer-goods?—Cooroy (N.S.W.).
Site of Calvary
Though it has been a matter of contro-
versy for nearly 2000 years, the actual site
of Calvary has yet to be determined. No
definite answer has ever been given,
though when the course of all the walls
of the Old City are plotted the place may
be found. Meanwhile, the generally
accepted site (B. 7/11/’56), though dating
back to a.d. 326, is based on evidence just
as slender as that for Gordon’s Calvary.
Gordon assumed that the place was
called Golgotha because it resembled a
skull, but there are two other theories to
account for the name. One is a Jewish
tradition that the skull of Adam had been
interred there; the other that Golgotha
was the place of public execution, in
which case it would not be unusual to find
skulls there—although the Gospels refer
specifically to the word “skull” in the
singular only.
There is no real proof that Calvary
was held in any veneration before a.d.
326, possibly because, the city having
been sacked twice in a century, most land-
marks would have been wiped out. In
that year the Empress Helena persuaded
her famous son Constantine to institute
a search for the site, and went to the city
herself to supervise matters,
A place was chosen by Bishop
Macarius of Jerusalem, where a Roman
Temple of Venus had been erected over
an old Jewish cemetery. Below the temple
were found some rock tombs, and some
200yds. away a cistern which is said to
have contained three crosses. One of
these, because of its miraculous healing-
powers, was claimed to be the True Cross,
a portion of which Helena bore away in
triumph.
The tradition that Golgotha was on a
hill is based on the Gospel statement that
it was “visible from afar,” which could
also mean that it was down in a valley
overlooked by the surrounding hills.—
J.B.(Q.). _
Pirating Civil Servants
Commonwealth and State Government
spokesmen are protesting febout the
alleged pirating by private employers of
their professional men.
The job-changers are mostly graduate
and diplomate ex-servicemen trained
under the rehab.-scholarship scheme, the
free-for-all which swamped the univer-
sities and technical colleges in the early
post-war years.
These men of mature age had, no
doubt, experienced clerical bureaucracy in
the Services. They now find in the civil
service a grade-clerk boss of the depart-
ment regardless of technical ability and
status.
One can be a principal architect,
engineer or chemist, but it is always the
principal administrator who is the top-
dog. He will query the price and con-
sumption of soap, toilet-paper and
stationery, and call for further details. A
highly technical item is likely to go
through first pop. A cooked-up requisi-
tion for a “Vicars Unpredictable
Predictor—cost £10,000” once got
through. The only query was on the
spelling of “Vicars.”
The administrator’s line of communi-
cation is to the First Assistant Secretariat
at the Treasury, the all-powerful group
virtually running the country. The yard-
stick of their self-determined efficiency is
the amount by which demands can be
pruned. Hence the merry game of
doubling-up requirements to beat the
pruners. *
In private industry a technical man can
and does go to the top. The Australian
professional man is versatile and efficient.
At home and abroad he will be found
bossing the big shows.
He is the real head, too. He not only
directs the technical side of the business;
he talks turkey to his finance-staff and
costing-staff.
When the public services recognise
talent instead of seniority and open the
way for the trained man to reach the top
administrative positions staff-turnover
will be reduced to a minimum.—Old
Opencut (S.A.).


ambition to follow one of the learned
professions but to the fact that alongside
my studies I had continued at full blast
as a black-and-white artist. And I had
covered the fees of my coach by relaying
his instruction to two other fellows at
half-rates, which provided an uncalculated
distraction.
It was painfully clear that I was no
good at examinations. I could not have
passed an examination in a thousand
years. This failure did not shake my
confidence in myself, but rather in the
educational authorities. In my mortifica-
tion I came to share the conclusions of
Strindberg (which I did not at that time
know) about the fraud of examinations.
Only an idiot could imagine that a human-
being could remember the precise answers
to all the questions that could be asked by
examiners. What I wanted from educa-
tion—and quickly—was a lead to com-
prehension of life in its totality, its far
perspectives, its broad horizons, the big
sweeps, the universal balances. To what
end need I fill my brain with details? It
was enough to know where to get those
if and where required, from those fitted
to provide that service.
My disharmony betokened no silly
scorn of scholarship. Far from it. When
in later life I sauntered around the
cloistered lawns of university colleges I
meditated on how happily and gratefully
I might have spent some years there
acquiring an orderly mind. Learning to
think by process of trial and error is the
hard way. I was aware that my own
efforts had been, to say the worst, catch-
as-catch-can, to say the best, unorthodox,
in that my search for knowledge had
usually begun at the apex and worked
back to the base, from effect to cause,
from current affairs to historical origins,
instead of the other way round.
Yet something of my early views per-
sisted ; for in my lifetime I have met some
men “ill-educated” in the narrow sense
who were most enlightened; and on the
other hand some “well-educated” men
who were extraordinarily stupid.
Obviously a knowledge of forestry may
or may not have much to do with the
ability to distinguish the wood from the
trees.
My failure to matriculate was the end
of my formal education. Thereafter I
followed my natural bent in reading and
reflection related to my own interests.
TTT was in 1907 that I had just fluffed my
matriculation examination. As con-
solation I now had a thundering piece
of luck. A spurt of local enterprise called
forth by the holding of an International
Exhibition at Christchurch in that year
included the publication of a skittish new
weekly, the “Sketcher.”
Fred Rayner, the proprietor, was a
caricaturist himself, the first real carica-
turist I had met. In the academic sense
he could not draw, but his portraits were
penetrating and intimate because he had
that rare thing a sense of individual
character and, even rarer, the wit and
confidence to represent it freely in line
without troubling about technical short-
comings.
I was waiting with my brownpaper
parcel of drawings of local celebrities
when he opened his office. He took me
on at two-pounds a week. But what I
gained watching him taking notes behind
a newspaper in the street and working
them later into caricature-portraits was
more precious than rubies.
Cathedral Square was the Piccadilly
Circus of Christchurch. If one stood long
enough everybody in the local world
passed by. It was an excellent observa-
tion-ground. My maestro, with his red
hair, sharp pink nose, twinkling blue
eyes bespectacled and shaded by a
rakishly-worn straw-hat, took full
advantage of it, lurking, shadowing and
making secret notes. At his elbow I
lurked too, fascinated.
“Haven’t quite got his mouth, my
boy,” he would say, screwing a critical
nose at my attempt on the back of an
envelope to catch some nob waiting for
his tram a couple of yards away. “That
fellow’s all in his mouth. Now just watch
it. Watch the way it opens and shuts.”
So saying he would calmly walk over
and politely -request the subject to direct
him to the next street or to give him a
light for his cigarette, while I stood by
studying jaw-action.
That kind of direct examination greatly
improved my judgment of essentials. So
character may reside in a boot, an ear
could be the man. The difference between
good work and trash in the caricature
of personality became clearer. I learned
to scorn the so-called “likenesses” taken
from photographs, both the wooden or
polite kind and the aimlessly distorted
“funny” kind, and to appreciate the art
that lay in the synthesis and emphasis of
truth perceived in the living person.
The “Sketcher” ended and Rayner
departed, leaving me with enough local
reputation to justify, almost immediately,
a return to the “Spectator,”' now to a full-
time job as its political cartoonist, no
longer a reserve junior. Two full-page
cartoons, four small ones, weekly. Two-
pounds. I was seventeen and growing up.
As things were then in New Zealand there
was an economic inevitability about my
gravitation towards political cartooning.
Illustrating jokes would never keep me.
Caricaturing personalities offered very
limited prospects. But here was a regular
job at which, with freelancing additions,
one could make a living.
Up till then I had been interested
mainly in the drawing, and not in draw-
JUDGE SIM
(Early N.Z. Arbitration Court Judge.)
ing my opinions. Now I had to take a
closer interest in public affairs.
4
NEW ZEALAND’S world interests
at the beginning of the 20th
century, when surveyed from the
middle of it, illustrate surprisingly the
immutability of change. For example,
we were haunted then, as today, by the
Yellow Peril, meaning first the Chinese,
later including the Japanese. In this we
were undoubtedly influenced by Aus-
tralia, where the emptiness of a continent
sitting in close proximity to the dense
populations of Asia had inspired an
uneasy conscience and an exaggerated
feeling of insecurity.
There was no color prejudice about it,
for in New Zealand brown Maoris and
white pakehas lived, together without
friction or impolite discrimination. But
New Zealanders took their Yellow Peril
seriously. And we were a bit disturbed
about the Russians. There were too
many of them, also. Who knew what the
old Dowager Empress of China and the
old Tsar of Russia would be up to next?
We heartily wished them both revolutions
as soon as possible.
For protection we depended, of course,
upon the übiquitous British Navy; but
we were very glad to see Admiral Sperry’s
American Fleet put in at Auckland.
We left Europe to the British Govern-
ment, confident that one of Rudyard
Kipling’s Tommy Atkinses was the equal
of ten foreigners. If in practice this
didn’t always work out, we could be
dutifully helpful, and we were rather
proud of having sent ten contingents of
volunteers to fight for the Old Country
in the South African war. While our
importers did good business with com-
mercial travellers, we took the patriotic
cue that made in Germany meant poor
stuff, and we professed to believe that
the Kaiser’s Army and Navy were made
of lead and kept in cardboard boxes.
On the home-front there was more
originality.
It had been my luck to be born into
the middle of a twenty-year period of
bold radicalism under the successive
Governments of Ballance, Seddon and
Ward. It was a time of ideas, in which
an astonishing number and variety of
social experiments were carried into law.
New Zealand fifty years ago must have
seemed dangerously “advanced” to an
English visitor, with its adult suffrage, its
free education, its State Insurance and
State Railways, its industrial arbitration,
its old-age pension. Nobody had been
frightened of a bit of the Socialism or
State ownership which were such bogies
to the British in the Old Country. To
me, of course, it all seemed natural and
normal.
Finance was sometimes a worry, and
there was much deploring of the unhappy
facility with which our statesmen solved
their problems by raising loans from
Britain. British capital had been essential
to the growth of New Zealand, but now
its concomitant, the abundant supply of
British imports, frustrated the develop-
ment of local Manufacturing industries
and threatened to fix New Zealand’s
destiny as exclusively an agricultural and
pastoral appendage to the Old Country.
This galled New Zealanders who felt
the stirrings of national pride. The
crimson bonds of Empire had a way of
slipping into a knot under the Adam’s-
apple. Protective tariffs were a live issue,
hotly discussed.
Long debates were in progress on land-
tenure, labor-laws, Henry George’s single-
tax and proportional - representation.
Liquor-control—local option and prohi-
bition —was a lively issue. We had strikes
and labor troubles which were duly put
down to inflammatory agitators. A fair
number of working-men were in the
House of Representatives voting with the
Liberal Government, but a separate
Labor party hardly existed. Outside
there was something called the Inter-
national Workers of the World which was
humorously alluded to as the “Wobblies.”
Nobody took it seriously.
THE “Spectator,” for which I was to
work for the next three years, was
ostensibly Liberal in politics and out to
advance the policies and ambitions of its
proprietor, G. W. Russell, popularly
known as “Rickety” Russell because of
his precarious occupation of the Parlia-
mentary seat for the constituency of
Riccarton. That the “Spectator” did this
effectively and that the policies and
ambitions were wholesome was shown by
the fact that Russell subsequently
achieved high office in a New Zealand
Government. This close proximity to an
active politician was a valuable educa-
tional experience for me.
Our policy was Liberal, but cautious.
We were for progress, liberty, land-
settlement, education, arbitration, cheap
money, maternity-homes and Home Rule
for Ireland ; but we were suspicious of
State control and we deplored labor
agitators. We sat on the fence about
Prohibition. Russell provided me with
suggestions for the cartoons, and week
by week I dutifully called Prime Minister
Seddon to account, severely denounced
the Kaiser for building a Navy and
chided King Edward VII when he sqemed
to need it. The “Spectator” stood no
nonsense.
Political life was not short of caricatur-
able personalities. The Premier, Dick
Seddon, “King Dick,” big and bearded,
had once been a miner and never allowed
anyone to forget it. Always he acted
heartily, as though he had just dug up a
large nugget. As a contrast, his successor,
Sir Joseph Ward, was debonair, waxed-
moustached and buttonholed, always
dressed as though he had a lunch engage-
ment at Downing-street.
On the sidelines were lanky, black,
mop-headed Tommy Taylor, Prohibition
leader, beloved voice of the people and
incidentally my pet subject; and various
men of character, including the popular
member from a certain Prohibition con-
stituency, who entered the House one
evening during an important pronounce-
ment by the Premier, sat down, took off
his boots, placed them on the Treasury
table and went to sleep snoring like a
foghorn.
I started as the obedient hireling, but
after a time, when I got into the swing
of it, naturally my own political inclina-
tions began to creep into the cartoons,
proving once again that matter and
manner of artistic expression are one,
and irony and sarcasm are difficult to
harness. While the cartoons filled the
master’s orders as to figures, background
and caption, subtle changes in the
emphasis and temper during the making
sometimes changed the finished picture
into something rather different from
what might have been expected. On such
occasions, when one of Russell’s ideas
had changed into something “Leftish”
without one being able to put a finger on
just what had made it so, I could see
him beginning to suspect that I had a
political axe of my own to grind and to
wonder where I had got it.
Reformist politicians, when asked the
origins of their opinions, usually talk of
some emotional experience in their youth,
such as anger at somebody’s injustice or
pity at somebody’s misery. It was not
so with me. In the first place I had been
born into a “progressive” society, which
I consequently accepted as normal.
Further development on equally bold
lines seemed natural and sensible. Even
as a youngster I distrusted the emotional
approach to politics. To my mind an
ounce of calm deliberation was worth a
ton of indignation, righteous or otherwise,
when it comes to forming judgments
concerning the practical improvement of
human conditions. In any case, I could
never be angry or hate for more than five
minutes.
But although it would be tiresome to
pursue into pre-natal obscurity the
derivations of one’s political philosophy,
one may recall points of time at which
the mixture has jelled into coherence.
One day I went to our rich quarter,
among the big houses, to draw a retired
ironmaster from Canada who had come
to live his declining years in Christ-
church. He received me kindly and we
sat in his beautiful garden while I drew
him. This wise if somewhat forbidding
old gentleman, touched off by something
I had said, began to talk quietly of the
possible beauties of living, the ideal
organisation of the State and the ultimate
triumph of wisdom. He took the world
view, moving outside our locality, past
New Zealand, beyond the British Empire
to the wide horizons of the human race.
Secure in his fine house, he rejected the
glib assumption of the permanence of
social inequality. We sat constructing and
reconstructing societies, finding the true
balance of order and liberty for the
betterment of the lot of mankind.
I had read some of this before, but it
was new to hear it spoken by a rich and
successful businessman. TTie sun was
shining, the garden was green, the sky
was blue —all that was needed was a
figtree and we might have been Aristotle
and a novice. When at last I got up to
leave he went to his library and brought
to me, as a parting gift to an attentive
listener, a copy of Bellamy’s Looking
Backward. I never saw him again, but I
still have his book. Peace to the bones
of J. T. Macßride. He little recked of the
seed he planted that day.
Before that my political ideas had
been disconnected. After it, they began
to take shape and relationship. Looking
Backward led me to a course of New
Worlds Plato’s Republic, Butler’s
Erewhon, Wells’s The Sleeper Awakes,
which I balanced with a good go at
Burke, and, just to counterbalance
Burke, Tom Paine and Winwood Reade.
MY new job as political cartoonist to
the “Spectator” gave me a modest
standing in the community. I took a room
at five-shillings a week in Cathedral
CRICKETER WARREN BARDSLEY
Square to work in. I bought myself a
good suit. Adolescence reared its pretty
head arid 1 had a few love-affairs. I
discovered in myself an ability to dance
and to sing Scottish songs a la Harry
Lauder, the latter enabling me to add a
few half-guineas to my income by accept-
ing engagements at country concerts. I
found at last two or three kindred spirits
to talk to. Until then I had had little
companionship. The life of an artist on
the job demands concentration in soli-
tude, and when I had the time I had
not found anyone of about my own age
who was at all interested in the things
that interested me. The girls I took
out certainly didn’t want to talk about
the nationalisation of the land.
The two or three local artists who
worked for the press were so much older
than I that I could find no ease in their
company. My father had been my prin-
cipal foil for serious talk, but he had
('Continued on next page)


tSm
/
m
jpp
KB
m
Lager
mm
try it...
you'll
like
it!
K8.t66.t3
6*£W£D AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH (. CO. LIMITED
So/ewan/
fy/9/fy’s
MODERN, HEALTHY SANITATION
FOR THOSE LIVING
IN NON-SEWERED AREAS
L ’ i
:'_JLms?a>y' y
Vs
ft Self cleaning—uses no chemicals,
ft The benefits of sewer in non-
sewered areas,
ft Healthy and hygienic
ft Modern pedestals in a range of
colours
ft Designed to meet and comply with
N.S.W. Health Dept. Regulations
Healthy, hygienic, TROUBLE-FREE
SANITATION all the year round
with a Humes Septic Closet. You owe
it to your family—yourself—to pro-
vide this modem system in your
home! Write now —or ring Ken
Williams at BX 4165 for full details!
m
' i
43 MARGARET STREET
SYDNEY. BX4 I 6 5
FACTORIES IN: Rydalmere, Adamstown, Grafton,
Lismore, Queanbeyan, Tamworth, Harden.
HUMES LIMITED
POST THIS COUPON
To HUMES LIMITED, 43 Margaret St., Sydney.
Please send—free and post free—your Septic Closet leaflet
and three sets of plans for me to present to my local council.
..
Name
Address ———•
found a new interest in writing letters to
the newspapers on aspects of religion,
such as The Weight of the Soul. Some
chap on his deathbed somewhere was
reported to have allowed himself to be
weighed before and after dying, and in
the interim a slight loss of weight was
shown. This represented the weight of
his soul, claimed my father firmly in what
widened into an acrimonious, esoteric
and highly satisfying newspaper con-
troversy about the material basis of the
spiritual. In between times he felt in
duty bound to exasperate orthodox
“Christians” by raising his favorite
question: “What Would Christ Do?”
concerning the conduct of public affairs,
in particular urging the practical applica-
tion of Christian principles to Defence
and Taxation.
My own political ideas fell together
on a lower plane, but I took them
seriously, read-up the issues, attended
meetings, debated and imperceptibly
graduated from bookishness to free-and-
easy exchange of ideas with persons—
occasionally even with personalities.
Regular attendance at the Saturday-
night open forum held in a cart with
flaring oil-torches in Cathedral Square
brought me into contact with the speakers
and earned me at last the privilege of
addressing familiarly as “Dan,” “Jack”
and “Will” local Radicals, some of whom,
surprisingly enough, were to become His
Majesty’s Ministers for this or that
twenty or thirty years later. Who could
have thought that the frock-coated, top-
hatted statesman I ran into in London
setting out for Buckingham Palace forty
years later was a fire-eater I had heard
from the tail of that cart so long ago?
I got a lot of ’isms and ’ologies in and
out of my system. The One-Big-Union
idea bit me, and I went to great pains to
work out a chart of possible industrial
organisation which would have had me
clapped into jail fifty years later. Finally
it horrified even its author and I washed
it out as incompatible with my idea of
democracy.
With zest I stretched my journalistic
privileges to get me around to whatever
was going, from opening of Parliament
to railway strikes; and to gain me access
to notable visitors passing through, like
Ernest Shackleton, the explorer,
Paderewski, the pianist, and Labor
leaders like Will Crooks and Tom Mann
(who turned up surprisingly in a frock-
coat with silk facings). I even had talk
with Keir Hardie (“Good evening, Mr.
Hardie.” “Good-night, my boy.”). I
hobnobbed around with some famous
American orators on Prohibition whose
names I have forgotten.
Prohibition worried me. After a spate
of rhetoric on the subject I was left con-
fused. Did the suppression of a pernicious
traffic balance the loss of individual
liberty? Had a man the right to go to
hell in his own way? I inclined to prefer
the methods of education and persuasion.
I was making many cartoons on the
subject, and it occurred to me that for
one who should know his own mind about
Prohibition it was a disability that I did
not know what it was like to be drunk.
Scr I persuaded a friend to go with me
to the park with a half-bottle of whisky,
which, sitting on the long grass in the
dark, we solemnly tossed-off in the
interests of Enlightenment. In no time
at all we were both blind-o. The experi-
ment was no good. When I came round
the issue had not clarified. I could not
look a whisky in the face again until I
was over forty.
The proprietor of the “Spectator” got
back into the House of Representatives,
and to celebrate his success he took a
two-months’ holiday, leaving a friend of
mine, George, to edit the paper. George
and I took the opportunity to brighten
up the policy a little in his absence.
Things were never quite the same after
that. George departed suddenly. A
firmer hand was felt. I chafed for an
outlet for my growing political
conscience. Rickety’s two-pounds had
not bought my exclusive services.
Conditions were not softened by the
fact that while I was the cartoonist of
the “Spectator” I had had myself
appointed also as cartoonist to a new
Labor weekly, the “Herald,” published in
Wellington. On Thursdays I piped in the
“Spectator” the circumspect voice of
Liberalism, on Mondays I was Labor’s
messenger clad in thunder in the
“Herald.” The situation was too
piquant to last. Russell and I had a
row and parted.
I walked under the weeping-willows by
the river and made a few plans. First, a
long-shot. I tried to persuade the most
admirable politician I knew to start a
new weekly with me as its cartoonist.
Apart from the awkward facts that
Tommy Taylor was the leader of the
Prohibitionists, and that in that capacity
he had been a butt for my ridicule in the
“Spectator” and other sheets, I had picked
him as an honest and, in other respects,
enlightened man with whom it would be
a pleasure to work. He was surprised
and touched. But noble fellows like
Tommy Taylor never have any money.
“You cannot start a paper on enthusiasm,
my boy,” he said.
Second, the even chance. My two
years as a journalist had given, me an
inside view of the comparative business
positions of Christchurch newspapers.
Our two bulky weeklies, all solidity and
dignity, the Liberal “Canterbury Times”
and the Conservative “Weekly Press,”
were in cutthroat competition, and I knew
the “Canterbury Times” was weakening.
The circumstances demanded delicacy
and finesse. With Machiavellian craft I
“dummied-up” a copy of the “Canterbury
Times” with a couple of full pages of
lively cartoons, and, choosing a time
when I figured the periodical statement
of his depressing circulation-figures
would be lying on his desk, I took it along
to the business-manager, with a carefully
prepared sales-talk explaining how
necessary for him it was to engage me.
To my delight it came off, hook, line and
sinker. I landed a plum job such as I had
dreamed of, excellent reproduction at
last, large space to spread, sympathetic
editor, practically a free hand —all this
and the fabulous salary of five-pounds a
week, too. %
I was eighteen years old and the world
was my oyster. I took my savings, thirty-
pounds, and gave myself a month off
before I started, to go to Australia to see
for myself what kind of people ran the
Sydney Bulletin. They had been
accepting a lot of my work latterly, and
one never knew where that might lead.
©N my return all went very well
indeed, artistically. The bigger
space gave me a chance to experiment
with bolder effects, the excellent reproduc-
tion and good printing a possibility of
subtler expression. 1 worked endlessly
and by degrees my touch grew more
confident and sensitive. There were signs
that my cartoons were being noticed in
Australia —not surprising perhaps, since
every week I posted twenty copies of the
paper marked “urgent personal” to Aus-
tralian editors, with the general idea that
if you shoot enough arrows into the air,
you are bound in the end to hit
something.
Politically, however, all soon was not
so well. General Godley, sent from
Britain to advise on New Zealand defence,
recommended the Government to initiate
a measure of compulsory military train-
ing. Immediately the country was filled
with argument For and Against.
I was Against, mainly on political
grounds. I was no pacifist, although I
believed, of course, that wholesale killing
was no way to settle international
disputes ; but I had to make a distinction
between defence and offence. I knew
well enough that the rights of individuals
rested upon collective responsibility. But
to me this bill was abhorrent because it
was obviously the thin end of the wedge
of conscription, rightly detested by the
free British peoples as a sinister foreign
invention for curtailing the liberties of
the people and arresting political progress.
It was doubly wrong to introduce such a
measure in time of peace. Even in time
of war, Britain had always done well
with voluntary enlistment.
In short, mine was the traditional
Liberal attitude. If anyone wants to
know what Mr. Gladstone said in 1862,
it was probably very like what young Mr.
Low said in 1911.
Totalitarian war was not yet thought of.
But the “Canterbury Times” was For.
Deadlock. The chairman of the board,
a Very Important Person, had me to his
house for private conference. But no
conclusion emerged except that everyone
was out of step but me. Both sides
retreated in good order, For that present
I refused to draw cartoons approving
the Act, and the paper refused to publish
any I drew against it.
But my days were numbered. Govern-
ments are not as amenable as individuals.
Backed by my father I was preparing to
resist medical examination when out of
the blue came a telegram from the
Sydney Bulletin: “Can you take
position as our Melbourne cartoonist for
six months?”
Could I? Wow!
I replied “Yes” without asking about
pay or conditions.
“But has not Australia a similar law?”
my chairman of the board asked me.
“And is not The Bulletin in favor of
it?”
“I will attend to that when it arises.
Life is full of uncertainties,” replied tight-
rope-walker Low.
Before I left for Australia something
happened which suggested a postscript.
Some time before my brother and I had
bought for ten-pounds a mare allegedly
in foal to Ribbonwood, the famous New
Zealand champion trotter. Actually the
distension of the unfortunate creature’s
stomach was caused by an equine illness
called toot —but we didn’t know that.
One night a storm came up and blew the
poor girl into a ditch. Lying half-
drowned with all four legs sticking up
in the air, there was only one thing to be
done. We borrowed a gun and shot her.
Then I dug an enormous Hole, my high-
water mark as a hole-digger, and after
persuading an obliging passing teamster
to hitch his team to the remains and
lug them out into the open to their last
rest, I buried her. As I patted the top
earth I thought to myself “This is a
cartoon idea.” The scene could be given
an allegorical significance and I could
be burying my policy, my past, my soul,
my future or something. An ambiguous
title, say, “A Fool Fills His Belly with the
East Wind,” or “One Toot and Ye’re
Oot.” Certainly I felt that in that hole
lay something more than a dead mare.
Boyhood, friends, the local success and
recognition I had built up one brick on
top of another.
Two days later I stood in the stem of
the ship and shed a tear of self-pity as I
watched New Zealand disappear over the
horizon. It is not easy to root oneself
up for ever from the scenes and people
we love and to go and start all over again
alone in a strange land.
{To be continued next week )


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and libera] settlements of claims
Director*: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; P. W. Duetbury t Deputy
Chairman; Aljred S. White; A. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Pbone: BW 8361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branchee in all State*.
m AIi*BRfTVSR
ine Huvuni nan
feihwuiywciit
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
p
A
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
1 *Oll *«o « utaiis 1111 o i
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN ARTHUR HOWES late of
Granville in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that IVY DEWS
(formerly FLORENCE IVY MARION
HOWES) has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. .4216 of 1956 on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse and is praying
that tfre Court exercises its discretion
on her behalf. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 15th day of February 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from ADRIAN TWIGG & CO.,
Solicitors, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J- DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STOJADRN RADOSAVLJEVIC for-
merly of 112 Enmore Road Enmore. —
TAKE NOTICE that LYDIA ALEXANDRA
RADOSAVLJEVIC haa filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2903 of 1956 on the grounds
of your desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
15th February 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
HILLIARD & BERRY, Solicitors, 17
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
in Mic
Future
3
\
m
Memory of the Olympic Games, as I saw them
in full pageant on that opening day in Melbourne,
will be with me as long as I live.
The influence of the Greece I know was
there; and my mind went back to days I had spent
at Olympia and Athens, whence this great human
festival had sprung.
As the Games began, so they ended: worthily
and proudly for Australia as host nation. Our
Organising Committee and all who assisted it
deserve the highest praise for the excellence of it
all. And, to crown the effort, the performance of
our teams in the arenas was superb.
Faith was an element in the Games’
outstandingly successful staging. The Future shone
through it also, for here was proof of our ability
to measure up to standards set by older races in
some of the greatest centres of the world.
The flags of 68 nations have been lowered, the
teams have marched out and dispersed, the Flame
that was kindled on Mount Olympus in November
has been quenched.
And grand though the organisation was,
smooth though the running, I believe that the
importance of the Games to Australia will come
now in prologue—in the very scattering of those
who came to compete and to see them.
They will be taking back an impression of
our country, and of us. In fifty languages the
message will be spread through the sister continents
and to islands that space the oceans between.
This we can tell ourselves: What we have, and
are, and hope to be, was mirrored faithfully at the
Games. It was to be seen in the cut and quality of
the youth who bore our Australian emblem.
And we can trust that the report bf us will
be good, in a world where the flame of progress is
burning all the time—and where the prize, as on
the fields of sport, will always be to the strong.
Q
////a
<ZS/<^S
ee'tttx.
7
I'TQ
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Water Music”
Sir Bernard Heinze, slightly
bigger than an ant, hopped upon
the rostrum, glanced round his
audience of 6000 people, looked
nervously behind him to see
how far he could step back
without falling . into Bft. of
water, waved his baton, and
began the Arts Festival concert
by the Sydney and Melbourne
orchestras in combination at
Melbourne’s Olympic Pool.
Handel composed his “Water
Music” in 1715 for performance
on a boat that followed George
One’s barge up the Thames,
hoping by these means to restore
himself to the King’s favor —
he had fallen out of it by going
a.w.l. when George was Elector
of Hanover and Handel was
his musical-director.
The Olympic organisers
evidently thought the music was
appropriate to the new occa-
sion, although the raft which
supported the 165 musicians was
securely anchored to the bottom,
had less power of movement
than the gently rippling waters
of the Pool, and couldn’t
possibly have followed a barge
of any sort whatever.
There actually was a Royal
barge coming up the Yarra. It
was daring the perils of that
river to convey the Duke of
Edinburgh from his yacht to
the concert, and it would have
been a more imaginative use of
Handel’s music if the two
orchestras had been piled into
a boat and had blown their
musical way through the heart
of Melbourne in the wake of the
Duke. The entire population of
the city could then have heard
different bits of the music—and
a bit of a good piece of music is
as good as the whole, just as a
square-inch of a Rembrandt
picture contains as much as the
whole canvas.
It would also have been
acoustically more satisfactory.
There was little doubt that the
two great orchestras of the two
greatest Australian cities were
putting their best foot forward
and there was no doubt what-
ever that Sir Bernard was.
Unfortunately, however, the
enormous building—with its tier
on tier of seats crammed with
spectators fanning out on two
sides and held together with a
maze of tie-rods, and with its
iron roof and its glassed ends —
wasn’t kindly to their efforts.
The trampling sound of the
great crescendoes in Beethoven’s
Fifth merged into a roar which
reverberated from watery floor
to iron ceiling, while the
pianissimos almost completely
vanished until one wasn’t sure
whether one was listening to
the tinkling of the cymbals or
the tinkling of the emerald
waters. One missed the nuances
of Glenda Raymond’s superb
soprano, and only her ringing
topnotes came through clearly.
This was still more unfortunate
for the debut of Clive Douglas,
the Melbourne composer, whose
winning entry in the orchestral
section of the Olympic Com-
posers’ competition was to have
been the highlight of the even-
ing. His shout of welcome to
the Olympic athletes was robust
enough to fill twice as big a
building, but his carnival
beginning and the subtlety of
his tonal painting of the Aus-
tralian scene, its vast terrain of
forest, plain and mountain, had
to be more-or-less taken for
granted.
Everybody was immensely
pleased, however, and the
composer had to mount the
rostrum repeatedly and bow to
an ovation as big as any received
by an Olympic record-breaker,
though not as big as the Duke
got when the crowd detected him
sitting midway between Mr.
Menzies and Doc. Evatt.
There were other things that
militated against calm con-
templation of the music. There
are no walls outside the building
and no posts inside it, and, in
fact, it appears to be hanging
magically from its own ceiling.
To anybody knowing this, and
unversed in the principles of
construction, it was rather dis-
quieting to watch several
thousand tons of music-lovers so
happily unconscious of their
unique position.
Nevertheless, it was a great
occasion as well as a weird one.
All through the programme
spectral motor-cars glided silently
and apparently on air across the
immense glass screens, or a
ghostly icecream-boy flitted by,
while the unseen vibrations of
the music made fantastic
patterns on the green surface of
the crystal Pool.
M.G.S.
“The Messiah”
The first of the season’s prolific
crop of Handel’s hardy annual
was presented at Sydney Town
Hall by the combined St. George,
Central Methodist Mission and
Bur wood Presbyterian Church
Choirs under the direction of
Frank Osborne, who conjured
from his forces good attack, well-
balanced tone and no little
climactic weight.
One of the most tricky choral
numbers in the Oratorio, “For
Unto Us a Child Is Born,” was
marked by an easy integration
between the four sets of voices
coming in at different times. The
sopranos were particularly
impressive, and only once, when
they were pushed to the limit of
the gamut in “And the Glory
of the Lord,” did their tone fall
away.
Allan Ferris, who led the
soloists to a good start, sang with
relaxed ease, and his top tenor
notes rang with quite a touch
of robustness. Bass baritone
Noel Melvin lacked his usual
power, but he sang with fine
artistry where high volume was
not called for.
Florence Taylor, one of the
most consistent contraltos Aus-
tralia has produced, invested her
numbers with a warmth of
devotional feeling. Soprano Tais
Taras’s disconcerting habit of
using her good-quality voice in
too-sudden bursts doesn’t help
her diction. David Barkla
handled the organ with dis-
cretion.
Artbursts
Sydney Exhibitions
Current Sydney exhibitions
include a show of aboriginal arts
and crafts at the Bis&etta Gallery,
and a collection of artists’
personal Christmas and New
Year cards at the National
Gallery—there are 250 cards,
mainly from Director Hal
Missingham’s collection, and
“designs range from hand-
painted to almost all the known
printing-processes”:
“There are wood-engravings,
etchings, lithographs, seri-
graphs, potato-cuts, lino-cuts,
monotypes, collages, photo-
graphs, photo -montage,
photostats, blueprints and many
other odd and interesting flights
of fancy in this traditional way
of the artist sending out his own
annual goodwill.”
Talkies
“The Birds and the Bees”
(Sydney Prince Edward):
George Gobel, a poker-faced
comedian, makes an impressive
screen-debut in this polished,
snappy comedy about the dumb
scion of a hamburger-tycoon
who falls into the hands of a
top - flight confidence - man
(David Niven) and his daughter
(Mitzi Gaynor) on a trans-
atlantic liner. Niven, in a role
tailor-made for him, does his
best work for some time, there
are some good dance-sequences,
and the dialogue is above the
ordinary.
“Somebody Up There Likes
Me” (Sydney St. James): The
au to biography of Rocky
Graziano, giving a frank account
of how the champ, k.o.’d his
early delinquency and a host
of pugs before he toppled the
reigning glove-king. There is no
glossing-over of the boxer’s
tough early life, including his
desertion from the U.S. Army.
Paul Newman is impressive in
all departments in the chief
role, and the fight-sequences are
capped with a slashing title-
fight wherein Rocky comes from
away behind to k.o. Zale. Pier
Angeli is the girl who sets him
on the road to respectability and
the top-flight in the game.
“Private’s Progress” (Sydney
Century): An English farce
which brings to light another
first-class comedian, lan Car-
michael, who uses a pop-eyed
innocence to telling effect in
tracing the painful Army pro-
gress of a rookie accustomed
to only the refinements of life.
The whole uproarious doings
end in his inclusion in a
commando raid into Germany
to recover art-treasures about to
be snavelled by a German
general. The Boulting Brothers,
who produced and directed the
film, have studded it with some
hearty cracks at official stupidity
and inconsistency.
“Safari” (Sydney Capitol) :
Victor Mature is the granite-
faced, indestructible hero in this
Hollywood drammer about the
Mau Mau terror in Kenya.
Coming on the heels of a con-
vincing and authentic British
film on the same theme it makes
a poor showing. Janet Leigh
simpers through the jungle, clad
in Park Lane clothes and wear-
ing a perfect perm.
“The Best Things in Life Are
Free” (Sydney Regent): Better-
than-average musical with three
strong personalities to stiffen the
lightweight structure. Ernest
Borgnine, Gordon McCrea and
Dan Dailey are the librettist
and Tin Pan Alley composers
who team-up in the ’twenties to
notch a run of successes, only
to split-up when the ambitious,
livewire song-writer Da Silva
(McCrea) gets the urge to break
into films. They reunite later
to hit the jackpot on Broadway.
Sheree North gives them good
support in the dancing sequences.


ANOTHER RECORD YEAR
Assurances in Force now exceed £354,000,000
The T. & G. marks the completion of 80 years of progress with yet another year of record
achievement.
NEW POLICIES
The public’s faith in the T. & G. is shown by the record
amount of New Business effected during the year. 102,050
Life Policies assuring £47,747,162 and 14,711 Personal
Accident and Sickness Policies were issued, while Accident
Benefits for £19,846,726 were added to 30,793 Life Policies.
Head Office;
Melbourne
i
'! I
1
: i
Purely Mutual
No Shareholders
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
The Assurances in Force in the Life Departments
exceed £354,000,000. That the T. & G. t has been entrusted
with the responsibility of providing this great mantle of
protection is striking evidence of the esteem in which the
Society is held.
INCOME
The Income for the year increased by more than
£1,570,000 to the record total of £20,380,000.
SECURITY
The T. & G. is in an impregnable financial position.
The Assets, which increased by £7,200,000 to the record
total of £113,330,000, are invested in first-class securities
and are held in trust to meet payments to policyholders as
they fall due.
SERVICE
The T. & G. is a Mutual Life Society and settles all
claims with notable promptness. Payments to Policyholders
last year exceeded £7,590,000, making a total of £55,290,000
during the past ten years.
GROUP ASSURANCE
The Society specialises in Staff Superannuation and
Group Assurance Schemes on terms most advantageous to
employers and employees. A large number of Industrial
and Commercial Organisations entrusted their schemes to
the Society during the past year.
Smitual Jife Society
The Australasian Temperance & General Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd. (Incorporated in Victoria, 1876).
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SUEZ CRITICS
TTEART-BURNING and heart-
searching over Suez pro-
duced a crop of criticism in the
British and American press
ranging from the “we-told-you-
so” school to those who
apparently believe that the
Anglo-French enterprise could
have been carried through suc-
cessfully with a less-intransigent
attitude on the part of the U.S.
Most of the criticism, how-
ever, beats back to a point of
agreement that the main casualty
of the affair has been the
Atlantic alliance and that the
most urgent concern is the heal-
ing of the rift in Anglo-American
relations.
London “Economist,” never
in favor of the armed inter-
vention in Suez, comments that
“Britain will be lucky if the
damage done to its position in
the world through the events of
the past four weeks in the Middle
East proves capable of being
repaired”:
“A Total Defeat”
“Once more this country has
suffered a total and unmitigated
defeat, and once more the voices
of self-justification urge the
British to indulge their natural
bent of supposing that every-
thing really went very well —
which, in turn, is met by a
frustrated and useless carping in
the Opposition, whose spokes-
men harass Ministers at question-
time for admissions of collusion,
or press them for promises of
instant withdrawal from Egypt.
“The withdrawal of the British
and French forces is unavoidable,
but it will not wipe out the
blunder of sending them in.
Collusion is an intriguing subject.
Parliamentary needling might in
time succeed in attaching an
imputation of prior consultation
with Israel somewhere —perhaps
on the leading men of the French
Government, leaving uncertain
the extent to which their British
colleagues were in their confi-
dence. Let the journalists and
the historians inquire into it;
this is no work for Parliament
just now.”
None of these things might
matter much, the “Economist”
adds, if Britain “had not in
fact suffered a reverse of the
gravest character”:
“The adventure in Egypt was
ill-conceived in that, it could
never, with all success, have
solved the problem which it was
intended to solve. As it has turned
out, it has not achieved even a
local, temporary, or factitious
success. The canal has not been
seized. It has not been kept
open, but has been very
thoroughly blocked. President
Nasser is still with us, and no
likelihood has been established
that, when he falls —as he will,
one day—anyone better will
follow him.
“The ill-will that has been
created has blocked other
channels of oil, besides the canal.
Because of this, Britain has lost
what freedom of action it had
and is physically dependent on
American goodwill, which it
has lost. Backbenchers may still
dream of a renewed bid for
victory, but things have gone
too far wrong for that.
“If great care is not taken,
President Nasser will get away
not only with the seizure of
the canal but with the spoils of
Israel’s victory as well; in that
event, the Middle East —on which
British and European depend-
ence will not diminish, but will
increase—would be more unsafe
than before; already it is more
open than ever to Russian
influence. All that can be done
now is pick up the broken
china, not shuffle it about.”
Nasser Victory?
London “Time and Tide,”
which was inclined to direct
London “Daily Mirror"
THE GREAT RE-FREEZE
action over Suez, comments that
“due to stabs in the back and
irresolution on the part of Sir
Anthony Eden, the Suez Canal
remains in the hands of the
defeated (by Israel) and dis-
credited Colonel Nasser, who
nevertheless finds himself in the
unique position of being able
to dictate to the United Nations.
“The U.N. force which was
supposed to take control of the
situation has not materialised
beyond a handful of oddly-
assorted, leaderless men. Colonel
Nasser’s every wish has been
granted by U.N.O. since the
threat of Soviet and Chinese
volunteers was made. The
Anglo-French determination to
ensure at least that the canal does
not remain under Egyptian con-
trol also appears to be fruitless.”
Among forthright British
critics of the U.S. attitude, Lon-
don “Daily Telegraph” sums-up
the short, unhappy history by
noting that “nobody should mis-
understand our [Britain’s] distress
that pique, not policy, should
now apparently be directing
American policy in the Middle
East”:
“To act on the assumption
that the Anglo-French action in
Egypt is a matter for condign
condemnation and punishment
is an absurdity. We beg
Americans to recall that it was
their Government which put the
heaviest pressure upon us
[Britain] to evacuate the canal —
a step which is at the root of
all our troubles.
“We beg them to realise that,
in the French view, it is their
attitude which has helped to
cause a movement for local
independence in North Africa to
degenerate into a murderous
gangsterism.
“We challenge them to deny
that they maintained far beyond
the limits of possibility that
Nasser was a bulwark against
Communism, and that their
belated conversion to the truth
was signalised by unilaterally
‘kicking him in the teeth’ and
withdrawing aid for the Aswan
Dam.
“It was they who refused to
put any teeth into the Tripartite
Declaration and thus make it an
effective instrument for keeping
peace between Israel and the
Arabs.
“It was they who endorsed
our indignation when Nasser
grabbed the canal, and then,
after the failure of the Menzies
mission, produced that plan for
a ‘Users’ Association’ which we
thought was intended as a
challenge to the Egyptian
dictator, but turned out to be
a device for increasing his
revenues.
“Do they really blame us
[Britain] if we therefore feel that
they did nothing to prevent a
situation which made action
necessary, and have done every-
thing to ensure that the action
was a failure?”
Further critics of the U.S.
include two regular contributors
to the correspondence columns
of the “Daily Telegraph”—Lord
Vansittart and Major-General
Sir Edward Spears.
Vansittart View
Vansittart, noting that “many
of us backed the [British] Gov-
ernment’s action in Egypt
because a Russian plan was
emerging to gain predominance
at the key-point of the East,”
goes on to comment that “the
Russians have been foiled for
the moment, but will persevere
in their attempt and, on the


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JACK HILLS late of Young N.S.W.—
TAKE NOUCE that LOUISE HILLS has
i ler Petition for Divorce No. 3915
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards. If you intend to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 30th day of January 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MR. G. M. STAFFORD,
.Alicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
J- DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALAN GEORGE COOK late of
F rvrTH T jl? T l 9 F that DOREEN
EDITH BLANCHE COOK has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2242 of 1956 on
the ground of desertion without just
or T „ excuse for three years and up-
ards If you wish to defend you may
appearance in the Divorce
n tl L S< i?u e ?j e Court Ki ng Street Svd-
1U in 1 February 1957 and obtain a
file Petition without charge
Pit? Street b D’iff-R. Solicitor, of IS3
Registrar! Sydney-J. DOUGHAN,
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
mm:
rmt
w/mmmimiiiiiiimn
m
mm
m
C.B.C.
BANKING FACILITIES
\ol ike cohfifo
Complete banking facilities, including
C.B.C. Savings Bank, are now available
to all members of a family at each
branch of this Bank in New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, Western Aus-
tralia and Australian Capital Territory.
Modern methods and equipment ensure
prompt transaction of Savings Bank
business.
Deposits in C.B.C. Savings Bank
are guaranteed by The
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited
The ever-increasing range of services avail-
able fo our customers, whether the account
be large or small, will be explained to you
gladly by the Manager at Head Office or,
your nearest branch of the Bank.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
present form of the British Left,
the United Nations and the
United States, may succeed. For
the temporary Russian setback
has been achieved at the price
of Anglo-American estrange-
ment.
“The estrangement may
become graver unless all
Americans realise that there are
two sides to this matter, and
that our [Britain’s] side must in
justice be mentioned, though not
labored.
“All true Americophils sup-
port American policies in
Europe and the Far East. The
Near and Middle East present
a different story. For years
American policy in this area has
seemed fumbling and tortuous.
We need not go back to Abadan,
and charity forbids me to follow
Dulles through the empty
labyrinths of his Canal Users’
Association. Let us have brevity
without reproach.
“Now we have been told the
Americans may bid for Arab
favor by financial assistance. We
made a big overbid by prema-
ture evacuation, and got nothing
but xenophobia. Have the
Americans better hopes? Is. it
wise to drop the substance of
old friends for shadows vainly
pursued? Anyhow, why sud-
denly back out of the High Dam,
let us [Britain] in for trouble,
and then go into reverse?
“Most of our people think
that there is something to be said
for us. They feel that we fought
gladly beside the Americans
because they deemed Korea a
vital area ; but when we deem
the Near East vital we encounter
their hostility.
“The better-informed among
us do not believe the worst; but
simple folk are shocked by an
American policy which seems to
align itself with a common
enemy just when that enemy is
most threatening. They are
amazed when they read that
Americans threaten us with
economic sanctions, or, in some
cases, with expulsion from the
United Nations. They cease
altogether to understand when
they read of American disposi-
tions to ‘teach us a lesson’ by
applying to us oil-sanctions not
applied to Mussolini.
“Britain and the United States
must keep their connections
because both will perish without
them. Fortress America is Cloud
Cuckooland without us. The
Americans are more immedi-
ately necessary to us than we to
them, but when both are indis-
pensable to each other the degree
does not matter.”
U.S. Equipment
Spears, commenting on “the
United States protest against the
use of American military equip-
ment by France and ourselves
[Britain], in Egypt,” writes that
“the United States is, of course,
perfectly free to lay down con-
ditions as to the use of arms
it provides, but should we accept
such conditions?”:
“From being told we cannot
use them in certain circum-
stances to being ordered to do
so in others is not a big step. In
either case we are not masters
of our own destiny, and our
armies and fleets are pawns in
American hands.
“That is a position which 1
am convinced the overwhelming
majority of our people will not
accept.
“We know that the outer
fringe of the United States s
defences is based on British
possessions. We have accepted
that American air-forces should
be based in Britain itself. We
have willingly accepted Ameri-
can leadership in Nato in
acknowledgment of the great
contribution the United States
is making to our common
cause, but this cannot mean that
that country can decide for us
what our vital interests are or
forbid our defending them.
“The generosity of the indi-
vidual American is well known
here. Taxed heavily, though far
less so than we are, he has con-
tributed freely to the common
defence. But has the American
Government as a whole displayed
the same spirit?”
American Critics
The American press, too, has
been frankly critical of U.S.
policy, typical comment being
that of Joseph and Stewart
Alsop in New York’s “Herald
Tribune.”
Granting that the British,
French and Israelis may have
been wrong in trying to unseat
Nasser, and that the Anglo-
French combination “played
their part in the operation as
badly as possible,” the Alsops
add, however, that “once the
attempt had been started, for
good or ill, the fate of the
Western alliance automatically
hung upon its success. That is
the point the American Govern-
ment has refused to recognise.
Maybe it is not too late, even
now, to recognise this central
point and thus salvage some-
thing from the ruins.”
Further Alsop comment
agrees with London “Daily
Telegraph” that “a great crisis
was precipitated when Egypt’s
President Nasser brusquely
nationalised the Suez Canal, as
his answer to Secretary of State
John Foster Dulles’s brusque
rejection of the Aswan Dam
scheme.
“Nasser got away with it, and
so became the unchallenged
leader of the other Middle
Eastern nations. This meant a
menace of eventual extinction
for little Israel. For Britain
and France, the consequences of
a Nasser triumph were almost
equally mortal, in view of their
economic dependence on Middle
Eastern resources. Through the
two other leading Western allies,
as well as because of our connec-
tion with Israel, our own vital
interests were also at stake,
although less directly.
“In these circumstances, how-
ever, our policy seemed to be
mainly designed to get by some-
how, from conference to fruit-
less conference, without doing
anything uncomfortably contro-
versial or decisive to solve the
problem.”
In a subsequent article the
Alsops note a significant change
in U.S. policy:
“In the past, when the United
States had to choose between the
U.N. and the Western alliance,
the decision was always in favor
of the alliance. Now, however,
the choices are being made just
the other way.
“This,” the Alsops add, “was
exemplified by the dusty answer
given the British and French
when they asked for rather
modest American help with their
grave oil-problem. It was again
exemplified, and even more
dramatically, when the President
also refused to intervene in any
way in U.N. Secretary General
Dag Hammarskjoeld’s negoti-
ations with Egyptian President
Nasser.
“By this latter decision ‘to
support the United Nations’ (the
official phrase), another signifi-
cant step was taken in the strange
process of transforming Egypt’s
smashing military defeat into a
smashing political victory.
“This Egyptian political victory
is being achieved, it must be
remembered, at the expense of
our two chief Western allies,
Britain and France, as well as at
the expense of Israel, whose
survival this country is morally
bound to guarantee.”
“Some Lessons”
Out of all these post-mortems,
the Washington correspondent
of London “Economist” suggests
that, “some lessons should be
mastered, even as recriminations
are extinguished”:
“There has, to be blunt, been
altogether too much use of the
vocabulary of comradeship
without the reality of genuine
expression. The doubletalk of
mutuality has induced a kind of
deafness to plain words and a
garbling of clear situations.
“For nearly a year Britain and
America have been shouting at
each other without hearing,
Britain saying that it would use
force in the Middle East without
waiting for the United Nations,
and the United States saying that
it would countenance no such
procedure.
“The British and French
grossly exaggerated the paralys-
ing effect of an American
election ; the Americans did not
grasp the intensity of Anglo-
French despair at Mr. Dulles’s
disappearing solutions. The
British for a time gave Mr.
Dulles the impression that they
were prepared to let the United
Nations settle the matter. But,
Mr. Dulles had equally failed to
explain to the British his own,
much-prized long-term plan for
bringing Colonel Nasser to his
downfall within a year by
political and economic pressure.
“From now on, the improved
facilities provided by the new
transatlantic cable between
London and Washington, on
which Sir Anthony Eden could
have spoken to President Eisen-
hower before he rose in the
House of Commons had he so
chosen, must carry an exchange
of understanding as well as of
language.”
Various Voices
Dr. Arnold Toynbee: “Man
today is like an adolescent
armed with .an adult’s weapons
—without having attained to an
adult’s state of mind.”
William Law t her (former
British miners’ leader ); “I
wonder what my generation
would have thought if miners’
leaders of old had ended-up as
gentlemen farmers, like Nye
Bevan.”


Between
Ourselves
!A
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
MAIN interest at Rosehill on
Saturday centred on horses
engaged in the Villiers (December
22) and the Summer Cup
(December 26).
Compound cleared out with
Rosehill’s Festival Handicap
(seven furlongs), being well suited
by the track light rain had
taken the sting from the ground.
Compound defeated Timor and
Hinges, also in the Villiers, as
well as other candidates for the
mile. He carried 8.5 and drops
41b. for the Villiers, and the
horses that followed him home
will meet him on slightly worse
terms.
• • • •
Baystone’s clear-cut win in
the Rosehill Handicap brought
him into stronger fancy for the
Summer Cup, for which he has
been pre-post favorite since
weights were issued. He seems
nicely placed With 8.2 in the
mile-and-a-half; at Rosehill he
had 8.7, and the drop will be
helpful over the extra quarter-
mile. Preceding Saturday’s run
he had won the Eclipse Stakes
(10 furlongs) at Caulfield.
Randwick trainer Fred Cush
and jockey Bill Cook have now
been associated for 28 years, the
combination winning numerous
races, mostly over sprint
distances. A few years back they
scooped the two-year-old pool
with Temeraire —A.J.C. Breeders'
Plate, Sires’ Produce and
Champagne Stakes. Latest
winner for them was Star
Empress in Rosehill’s two-year-
old Maiden. Raced by Mrs. O. P.
Sellers, the filly is yet another
Star Kingdom. She’s from Irex
by Midstream (imp.) from
Versatile by Pistol (imp.). Mrs.
Sellers’s husband has a stud out
Orange way.
• • • •
Beresford Hope, runner-up to
L’Aurea in the First Parramatta
Stakes at Rosehill, has now run
second no fewer than 22 times!
He has won only two races.
There’s no denying he’s an
honest galloper, but he simply
doesn’t have that little bit of
luck. It was only by a short
head that he was defeated at
Rosehill, after being with the
tail-enders at the entrance to
the straight.
In the Auburn Stakes at
Rosehill Newcastle apprentice
Jim Gairns, having his first ride
in the city, was seen to
advantage on the winner, Queen
Nilo, who had also won in
Novice company at Newcastle
in October ; she now carries the
colors of Segenhoe studmaster
Lionel Israel. Gairns, appren-
ticed to R. L. Cashman, hails
from Scotland and in Newcastle
has had more than a dozen
successes.
Lovely Day, a horse of many
stable - changes but only
moderately successful to date,
returned to the winning-list in
RosehilPs Welter (7£ furlongs).
Capably ridden by Barry Moon,
he’s now trained by Ray Moore.
Lovely Day was the second of
Nilo’s progeny to win at Rosehill.
For a horse placed in the
A.J.C. Derby and the St. Leger,
Gay Ranick is a long time
getting out of the restricted
ranks. He again failed to act to
expectations in Rose h i 1 l’s
Auburn Stakes, being easily
beaten into a minor place by
Queen Nilo and Moon Love,
and the latter is a maiden! Gay
Ranick finished second in last
year’s Derby to Caranna and
second in the St. Leger to Sailor’s
Guide, but from many starts his
only win to date was his success
in an Auburn Stakes at Rosehill
at three-years, when he defeated
Prince Dante.
When a stable starts two
horses in the same race and both
are in demand there’s bound to
be an outburst when the winner
is the wrong one for the majority
of backers. It happened at Rose-
hill in the Second Parramatta
Stakes in which E. Hush started
odds-on Nile River, raced by
E. R. Williams, and Reign, who
carries the colors of W. F. and
F. H. Moses. Reigrufis a smart
'sprinter, but Nile River had won
twice by 10 lengths and was the
logical favorite, though a lot of
money went on Reign also. Nile
River was quickly beaten after
they’d headed for home, and
Reign won by three lengths.
First of the progeny of the
English Hyperion sire Rock and
Rye to win in Sydney (at Canter-
bury), Irish Wit is closely related
to such top performers of past
seasons as Skipton, Wotan,
Gaine Carrington and Filipino,
so owner Mrs. R. M. Wood
might have a future Cups-winner
in the stables of Canterbury
mentor Charlie Munro. Black
Signet, dam of Irish Wit, is an
Agincourt (imp.) mare from
Mistletoe by Psychology (imp.).
+ +-
Games Summing-up
TWO lasting impressions from
* the main stadium (from
contributor “Bookie’s Dog”):
The absence of “incidents.”
Allowing for all the goodwill
possible, it would not have been
surprising if the state of the
world, the strain on the athletes,
and the tension built up in the
crowd, had fused into one or
two unpleasant scenes; but the
athletes showed no more than
natural elation or disappoint-
ment according to their perform-
ances, and the spectators were
as non-partisan as human nature
would allow.
There was a bit of press-
hysteria about an “incident” or
two in contests like water-polo,
where that sort of thing comes
naturally. You’d see more in
any Melbourne football match,
and much more at Mungindi.
The aplomb of our girl
athletes. I’ve played football on
the M.C.G. in front of 80,000
spectators and I know what a
nerve-shattering atmosphere such
a crowd generates; but those
kids went about their tasks like
old troupers.
* * *
The 10th day of the Games
(Monday, Dec. 3) saw Australia
win its seventh gold-medal, and
so set a new record. Australia’s
previous-best tally of gold-
medals was six, at Helsinki in
1952.
The only gold-medal decided this
day, it was in the 4 x 200-metre free-
style relay-swim. Australia’s four,
Kevin O’Halloran, John Devitt,
Murray Rose and Jon Henricks,
swimming in that order, covered the
distance in Bmin. 23.65ec., a new
world and naturally Olympic
record. What makes the record ever
so much more noteworthy than the
previous world-time (Bmin. 24.55ec.)
is that it was set, by Russia this year,
in a short pool! (Incidentally, short-
pool times are no longer to be con-
sidered for world records.)
On the 11th day Australia won
yet another swimming gold-
medal, this time by favor of the
17-year-old Sydney swimmer
Murray Rose.
This was the 400-metres freestyle
final, Rose winning in Olympic-record
time of 4min. 27.35ec. Japan’s
Yamanaka was second and American
George Breen, considered Rose’s main
threat, third. ......
This was the first time Australia had
won this event at a Games, and Rose
became the youngest person ever to
win two gold-medals at the one
Games. Rose must rank as one of
Australia's brightest swimming-stars
in what is quite a galaxy.
Five other gold-medals were
also won-
Pat McCormick,* of U.S.A., easily
won the women’s springboard-diving
—her third gold-medal. Girls from
North America dominated the event,
U.S. coming second and fourth and
a Canadian third.
Italian cyclists won the 4000-metres
teams-pursuit, with France second and
“r 3“^, ne 5 S^ ,m £^ m to
France’s 1936 record-time.
In fencing Hungary, which has
won the event at every Olympiad since
1928, coasted in to win the teams
sabre gold-medal.
Two shooting gold-medals both
went to Russia, the small-bore rifle-
shoot and the “running-deer” shoot.
Runner-up in the latter event was
Swede Olaf Skoldberg, also runner-up
at Helsinki.
Most of the gold - medals
decided on the 12th day were in
the yachting.
Australia’s best prospects for a
gold-medal here were Westralian
Roly Tasker’s Falcon IV, in the
sharpies, and Victorian Jock Stur-
rock’s Buraddoo in the 5.5-metre
Before the last heat of the sharpies
began, Tasker and Peter Mander
(N.Z.) were equal on points; Tasker
came in first in the last heat, and it
looked as if Australia had won its
first-ever yachting gold-medal. But
France, which wasn’t in the race for
a medal anyway, protested for inter-
ference, and the protest was upheld.
N.Z. accordingly was placed first,
with Australia winning the silver-
medal and Britain the bronze.
In the 5.5-metres, Sturrock finished
third, to give Australia the bronze-
medal. Sweden came first, and Britain
second.
Sweden also won the Dragon class,
with Denmark second and Britain
third. (Britain’s representative, Blue-
bottle, is owned by the Queen and
the Duke of Edinburgh; sailed by
Lt.-Com. G. H. Mann.)
In the other classes, the Finn mono-
type went to Denmark —Danish
yachtsman Paul Elvstrom thus win-
ning his third consecutive gold-medal
—from Belgium and U.S.A., while
the gold-medal of the Star class went
to the Stars and Stripes, from Italy
and the Bahamas.
Two swimming gold - medals
for women were decided. Judy
Grinham won the 100-metres
backstroke in lmin. 12.9 sec. (new
Olympic record, and Britain’s
first swimming gold-medal since
1924). •
The 100-metres butterfly was won
by Shelley Mann (U.S.A.) in lmin.
llsec., new world-record. U.S.A.
girls also filled the two places.
In the shooting, G. Ouellette, of
Canada, won the small-bore rifle
(prone), and S. Petrescu (Rumania)
the automatic pistol or revolver shoot,
with a new Olympic-record points-
score.
Two women gymnasts, Larisa
Latynina of Russia and Agnes
Keleti of Hungary, won between
them every gold-medal in
women’s gymnastics — two each
an( f one j n which they tied,
.
The 13th day at the Games
was not altogether unlucky for
. WP u l n
Australia. We were again
the swim, with two gold-meuais,
women’s 4 X 100-metres
, j tbe men ’ s 100-metres
relay ana tne men s iuu meucs
backstroke. And Australia also
? <*<£»* gold-medal-Aus-
tralia’s 11th gold-medal.
Th ® r s* ay teai ? n Hatin'^ won
Leech, Morgan and Crapp, won
in Olympic and world-record
time (4min 17.15ec.). U.S.A.
• . *___j’ • A r ,- y ; n
came a close second, in 4mm.
19.25ec., also under the old
world-record. The U.S. girls
V 1 OUt . aU the T y ’ *5
only Lorraine Crapp s
magnificent swim in the last leg
took Australia to the front.
Australia came first and
, ■ inn u~n\r
seco , nd ia the 100-metres back-
Stroke. There IS almost nothing
between Queensland’s David
Theile and N.S.W.’s John
Monckton —a better start or a
better turn will give either of
them the advantage in any
particular race.
In the heats and semi-final
Monckton had better times than
Theile; but in the final it was Theile
who, after a beautiful turn, led all
the way on the second leg, for a new
Olympic and long-course world-
record time of 62.25ec. Monckton
was second, and McKinney (U.S.A.)
third.
The 200-metres breaststroke was
won by world-record holder
Furukawa, of Japan, in new Olympic
time of 2min. 34.75ec. Another
Japanese, Yoshimura, was second.
Australia’s Terry Gathercole, who
finished strongly—but not strongly
enough—came fourth.
The high-diving brought Mexico its
first 1956 gold-medal Joaquin
Capilla first. Two divers from U.S.A.
were in the places. Capilla won the
bronze-medal in the springboard
event, decided earlier.
Australia’s cycling gold-medal
was won by the Victorians
Browne and Marchant in the
200-metres tandem. This title
was also won by Australia
(Mockridge and Cox) at
Helsinki in 1952.
Dick Ploog, of Australia, collected
the bronze-medal in the 1000-metres
sprint, which was won, as expected,
by world champion Michel Rousseau,
of France.
The 100-metres time-trial was won
by Leandro Faggin, of Italy, in lmin.
9.Bsec., a new Olympic record. Aus-
tralia’s Warren Scarfe came a credit-
able fourth.
The hockey gold-medal was won
by India, the favorites —India has
won the hockey at each Games since
it first entered in 1928. Runner-up
was Pakistan, just beaten 1-0 in the
final by India. Germany beat Britain
for the bronze-medal. (Australia
finished fifth.)
Russia practically scooped the pool
in the gymnastics and the Graeco-
Roman wrestling. In the former it
won 5\ out of seven divisions (tying
with Germany for the gold-medal in
the long-horse), with Japan winning
the other (horizontal bar). It also
won the teams event. In the
wrestling it won five out of eight
divisions, Finland winning two of the
others (lightweight and featherweight)
and Turkey the welterweight.
In the fencing, the individual sabre
went to Karpati, of Hungary.
On the 14th (second-last) day
Australia won two more swim-
ming gold-medals, by Murray
Rose in the 1500-metres freestyle
and by Lorraine Crapp in the
women’s 400-metres freestyle.
Both won three gold-medals, and
Australia thus made a clean
sweep of the men’s and women’s
freestyle events. In all Aus-
tralia won 13 gold-medals.
Lorraine Crapp—well below her
best, too, it was said —won very
easily, in 4min. 54.65ec. —outside
her own world-record 4min. 47.25ec.
but well inside the Olympic record of
smin. 12.1 sec. (which time was beaten
by several swimmers, in the heats and
in the final). Australia’s Dawn
Fraser came second (in smin. 2.55ec.),
with Sylvia Ruuska, of U.S.A., third
(in smin. 7.1 sec.).
In a heat of the 1500-metres,
Breen (U.S.A.) had clipped just
on 7sec. off Rose’s world-record
(new record, 17min. 52.95ec.).
But, in a gripping race, it was
Rose who won the final, with
Yamanaka (Japan), who finished
with a terrific burst, second, and
Breen third —the same order in
which they’d finished in the 400-
metres. Rose’s time was 17min.
58.9 sec. Australia had three of
the eight finalists —a fair enough
effort in itself, even if one of
them did finish last.
The women’s high-diving was won
by Pat McCormick, of U.S.A., who
a day or two earlier had won the
women’s springboard-diving. Two
other U.S. girls were in the places.
Italian Ercole Baldini won the 116-
miles Olympic road-cycling race, in
shrs. 21 min. 17sec. France won
the teams medal. The Australians
failed badly.
Hungary had a popular victory in
the water-polo. In the final it beat
Yugoslavia 2-1 in a cleanly fought
game—for its game, the day before,
with Russia, which it won 4-0, you
could leave out the “cleanly.” Russia
won the brronze-medal.
Also decided, two teams events in
the women’s gymnastics—one to
Hungary, one to Russia.
On the final day the last gold-
medal to be decided, for the
Soccer, went to Russia, which, in
a very close game, beat Yugo-
slavia 1-0. Bulgaria won the
bronze medal.
Then there followed the
simple and rather sad but
dramatic and dignified closing-
ceremony, the Torch was ex-
tinguished, the Olympic flag
lowered and the XVlth
Olympiad was at an end.
“K.R.”: There is, of course,
no official winner of the Olympic
Games ; and no official points-
score (there are a couple of ways
of working out the points, any-
way). If a points-score is to be
kept, it would seem that some
gold-medals should count for
more than do those in the
“minor” sports —classical and
“glamor” events like the 100-
metres, 1500- and 5000-metres,
etc., should surely earn more
points than, say, a yachting win.
But, of course, everyone will
have to agree as to which are
the “minor” events.
* * *
At Moore Park (Sydney) last
Wednesday night four world
relay-records were set by British
Empire or U.S. athletes. They
were the women’s 4 x 110yds.
(new time, Jsec. off the record,
was set by Australia’s Olympic
team, Cuthbert, Strickland,
Mellor and Croker); the
women’s 4 x 220yds. (new time
0.1 sec. better; set by the same
team except for Matthews in
place of Strickland); the men’s
4 x 220yds. (the Americans
Morrow, Baker, King and Stan-
field taking |sec. off the record);
and the men’s 4 x 880yds.
(Americans Courtney, Spurrier,
Sowell and Walters taking off
2.25ec.). In the teams contest,
men’s events only counting, Un-
easily defeated the Empire, win-
ning 18 events to 5; as it has
won just about every such con-
test, held regularly at 01ympi c
time—one would expect a com-
bined British Empire team W
prove more formidable than lS
evidently usually the case.


Research in Industry
No. 26 of a Strict
m
2gs*
•4
ag
*Sf
9pv
S ’Si
3
i fii
m
THE WORK OF KINGS
From the earliest times, the supply of water has been a major
influence in the rise and fall of civilization. Excavations in Jerusalem
show that some ingenious feats of tunnelling were performed to give
access to water. The only available source for the city was a spring,
now known as the Fountain of the Virgin, in the nearby Kidron
Valley. So that their supplies should not be lost in time of siege, the
citizens of Jerusalem cut a remarkable series of shafts, tunnels and
stairways through solid rock to the site of the spring. At a later date,
King Hezekiah was faced with the problem of diverting the water
from the hands of invading Assyrian armies and with great urgency
he constructed another tunnel 1776 ft. in length to bring the waters
of the Fountain of the Virgin to the Pool of Siloam within the city.
Even in our modem world, the supply of water presents many
difficulties and this priceless commodity often needs treatment before
it is suitable for use. Water never occurs in nature in a pure state
and always contains impurities in suspension and solution. Research
into the problems of water treatment goes on continuously in ICI
laboratories and many chemicals and treatment methods have been
discovered. Chief amongst these are the “Afloc” Water Treatment
chemicals which enable water contaminated with a wide range of
impurities to be safely used by ships and trains, in industrial boiler
systems, and so on.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
Or AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
c
IBSS. L. 918. 4635
51%
Government-Guaranteed
for 5 years!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
CLOSES NEXT SATURDAY!
9 DOUBLE SECURITY. Every investment is secured on the Board’s
income and unconditionally guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government.
• OPTIONAL TERMS of 5, 10 or 20 years are available.
• HALF-YEARLY INTEREST may be credited to your bank account.
• NO EXCHANGE. Your investment, interest and repayment of
principal at maturity are free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
• TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. All types of Trust Funds may also be
invested; the Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
9 INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED. If you do not wish to invest in full at
once you can pay a 10 per cent, deposit now and the balance by 28th
February, 1957.
DECIDE TODAY TO INVEST
• at any Commonwealth Trading Bank;
<9 throuah a Stockbroker;
9 at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
Loan No. 164, issued at par, by J. B. Were & Son.
all the outhouses, the barn and
the fowl-house; but the most
significant thing we found was
a dark stain on the back
veranda which so impressed
Wocker that he had trouble
leaving the waterbag in order
to follow us.
“We can’t just hang about all
day,” said Rupert, “in case they
did cart him away.”
“We’ll just have to tell the
sergeant,” said Wocker, in utter
despair at being reduced to such
a pass.
So we hurried homeward,
somewhat bewildered, grouped
round Hummy’s paltry belong-
ings, like pallbearers in a hurry
to get the job over. As we neared
Hummy’s home we began to
have thoughts that considerably
slowed our steps, and when we
saw Aunt Anastasia at the front
gate we halted altogether.
But Rupert faltered only for a
moment and then, despite the
danger-signals on his mother’s
face as she turned and saw her
only son, went forward alone;
and, out of sheer conscientious-
ness, he’d have stood there at
the gate and told the whole
tragic story if she’d given him
half a chance; but, the moment
he was within range, she took
the initiative so thoroughly that
it was a wonder she did not even
manage to lay hands on him.
“I never thought I’d live to
see the day,” she said, “when
a son of mine would strip the
clothes off an innocent boy’s
back and make him run naked
through the streets!”
ONLY one person in the whole
world could have produced
such a version of our exploit,
as even Rupert could see
immediately.
He carried out a lightning-
withdrawal to where he could
have space to change his dis-
positions to cover the new
situation.
As I trailed him from the
scene, a disquieting prevision of
Hummy dodging real bush-justice
from pillar to post made me
very glad that / hadn’t squibbed
it back at Snig’s.
I
thing, take him somewhere. Per-
haps that was why we thought
so much more of the men around
ys than the young fellows seem
to nowadays. And in the case
of myself and my young brother
there was one who overshadowed
all the rest.
This was R. G. C. Shaw, the
staunch old mate of Dad’s, who
took over our affairs when he,
and later our mother, died.
Robert Garnet Charles Shaw
himself died in Perth only a year
or two ago, halfway through his
eighties, still smiling through his
beard as he had always done in
good times or bad.
Shaw had plenty of troubles
and plenty of fun. At a very
early age he went completely
deaf, a disability that hindered
advancement past the position he
had already reached. He had
three sons, and all died young
and tragically, one in the First
World War.
On the happier side he had a
wife as wonderful as he deserved,
and four handsome, lively
daughters to keep his home
cheerful and his mind young.
And, of course, plenty of friends.
A powerful man and a desk-
worker, his weekend activities at
his Piccadilly-street home were
staggering. He sank great gate-
posts four-feet into the concrete-
tough Kalgoorlie earth. He built
a fine tennis-court and slaved like
a horse to maintain it while the
gay afid thoughtless young from
all over the place enjoyed its use
and left the yakker to him.
But nothing pleased Shaw
better than to see youngsters
happy and healthy ; and filling
his house with them was
sufficient reward for him. And
he led by example, not instruc-
tions or threats. If he ever spoke
sharply it Was not to me. But to
disappoint him, to fall short in
any way of his standards of
decency and kindliness, was
unthinkable.
The codes of other adults, even
those one might like, could be
broken, ignored, sneered at. But
Mr. Shaw’s was so gentle and in
all respects obviously right that
to offend against it was to plumb
the depths of shame.
Of course, I did offend once
or twice. He simply ignored it.
He gave the impression, with-
out saying anything, that he
doubted if any such things could
ever have happened. If they had,
then they were too distressing to
chatter about. Anyway, there
was no need to chatter, because
he was sure nothing like them
would happen again. You were
deeply grateful, and you made
a resolution that they wouldn .
Whether or not you kept it, you
made it with all the feeling a
hang-dog adolescent can have
about such things.
All in all, the best thing about
“the good old days” for males
seems to have been that the men
were close enough to the boys in
the right matters, and a little
remote from them in things
about which ordinary common-
sense told them that was
desirable.
As I said earlier, a man had
time for a boy, to yarn with him
and take him places. But he
didn’t take him to the pub or
offer him smokes until quite
some time after he knew the lad
had been smoking and drinking.
He respected the youngster’s
privacy for the first experiments
in these things. Men like Bob
Shaw didn’t swear in front of the
young fellows except in some
moment of real fury and distress.
It was something of a shock to
me when I first discovered that
he swore at all.
Nowadays, education, the pro-
fessional training of the young,
is better than it was then. But
what has happened to the home-
relations?
No doubt some very wise
fathers do the right thing, but
most are at times haunted by
their inadequacy and failure. In
a changed and stomach-ulcerous
Australia they love their children
—and yell at them too much
through nervous frustration.
Then, when they finally realise
that there are strangers in the
house who should be close and
comfortable friends, they panic.
They get so hail-fellow-well-met
that it’s laughable.
Junior, who has been on the
outer for years, is suddenly the
boon companion. He is rather
pompously told things he found
out years ago from other sources,
and it bores him. Sometimes he
even knows that the old boy’s
information is just all wrong.
Any dregs of respect he still had
for Dad go down the sink. He’s
a candidate for the bodgies, the
misunderstood vanguard of “true
culture” and values the old don’t
understand.
Well, it is hardly his fault. The
way his dad behaved through the
years makes his theories look
right. At least, he’s got theories,
and his Dad hasn’t got anything
much except a sense of wasted
years that moved too fast. Dad’s
a has-been, a relic of the
ludicrous past, trying to impose
turn-of-the-century ideas on
somebody who belongs to its
latter half.
What to do about it is a
problem for the individual. The
community habits of today
simply don’t establish the best
conditions for boys on the way
to maturity, so you have to work
out for yourself the matters in
which you will not conform with
the mob.
The two vital things, I’d say,
are to find, make or steal time
for any boys who might need it,
and to impress on the young that
there were compensations and
delights in life long before
everybody had a motor-car, a
radio, a refrigerator, and the
movies just around the corner.


Sky tour the world
under the friendly wing
of
AUSTRALIA'S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
/JMU'AW
lm\
Kfl
m
Ml 9
Right around the world in complete comfort at
an amazingly low fare!
QANTAS will issue one Tourist ticket that
will take you right around the world, saving
over 20% on First-Class air fare.
Qantas Tourist travel is completely comfortable,
and includes adjustable seats, attractive compli-
mentary meals, bar- service and courteous
individual attention.
Wherever you go, Qantas offices or accredited
agents will give you a friendly welcome and
supply information about local attractions, cur-
rency, side-trips, shopping and entertainment.
Qantas looks after you all the way!
imni
AUSTRALIA’S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
QAHTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. 11l ASSOCIATION WITH 8.0.A.C. AND TEAL
029.02.126
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO SYDNEY DAVID BRAY late of Hie
R.A.A.F. Station Rathmines. —TAKE
NOTICE that FELICE MARGARET BRAY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3194
of 1956 on ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 6th February 1967 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. B. MOFFATT & SOlv.
Solicitors. 104 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST MOSMAN CORNELL late of
Bathurst in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MAUDE
CORNELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2829 of _ 1966 on the
grounds of desertion without cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
requesting the Court to exercise its dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the
19th day of February 1967 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOHNSON & O’NEILL, Soli-
citors, 69 Hunter Street, Newcastle.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Dlvorce.
TO FLORENCE HYNDS late of 42
Cressy Road Ryde and ROBERT BICKLEY
late of 42 Cressy Road Ryde.—TAKE
NOTICE that HORACE REGINALD
HYNDS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3280 of 1966 praying for a Divorce
from FLORENCE HYNDS on the grounds
of adultery with ROBERT BICKLEY and
is claiming from ROBERT BICKLEY the
sum of £2OOO damages If you or
either of you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 15th February 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from OUTHBERT W. ROBSON &
CO., Solicitors, of 10 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
fC-v
Wool
Men
fk
?
*r+*Ti
V.
Z*e&rfSs
S 3
w*
;T*-_a
-■^7
-ws
I#
DAL.
Lf
stockmen on tin horses .
. . . successors to the colourful pack-horsed boundary riders in the sprawling
saltbush and spinifex centre of Australia ... On a 2,000,000-acre station
abutting the Nullabor Plain, their buzzing hornets have spelt finis to arduous
mustering on the “sheep-to-40-acres” country, radiating 80 miles from the
station behind 400 miles of vermin-proof fencing needing constant patrol to
keep in order . .. . Here a fleet of scooters, with Kelpies and Border Collies
trained to ride their footboards, have brought automation to the remote
interior.
Likewise Dalgety’s dependable wool and stock-selling service, its merchan
dising facilities, and its friendly advice and help to graziers, have brought the
most efficient and experienced service to the pastoral industry all over Australia.
Mkaigetys
Always Dependable
15 BENT ST., SYDNEY, AND ALL STATES
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To contact anyone knowing the
whereabouts of the log-book of the
Margaret Agnes, which arrived at
Port Phillip on April 1, 1850. Or
anyone knowing anything of a baby
—son of Mathew and Anne Agnes
(or Agnes Anne) Campbell—born not
long before the ship reached
Australia. —6431.
To sell copies of the following:
Maurice Guest and The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony (first Australian
edition), by Henry Handel Richard-
son; The Escape of Sir William
Heans (first edition), by William Hay;
The Collected Verses of Arthur H.
Adams; Dowell O’Reilly From His
Letters, by M. O’Reilly; North-west
by North, by Dora Birtles; Viewless
Winds, by Herbert Moran; A. G.
Stephens, by Vance Palmer; Return
to Coolami, by Eleanor Dark; An
Essay in Values (Chris Brennan), by
Randolph Hughes.—643o.
Does Anybody Know?
How to make a “gold-cradle”—as
used in the N.S.W. gold-days?
Information Sought
What are the latest figures available
in N.S.W. on (1) sheep, (2) cattle, (3)
horses and (4) pigs ?
(The following statistics have been
compiled from annual returns sup-
plied by landholders to the Govern-
ment Statistician, Mr. R. Carver.)
(1) Af Mar. 31, 1956, sheep in
N.S.W. had reached the record figure
of 62,988,000 —an increase of
3,788,000 on the previous year, and
1,157,000 more than the 1891 peak
of 61,831,000. (2) At the same
date, the number of cattle in the
State stood at 3,679,000—a 218,000
increase on the previous year. The
highest number ever recorded was
the 1951 figure of 3,703,000. The
number of dairy-cows (including
heifers one year and over) in
registered dairies increased by 19,000
to 993,000. The 1935 total (1,174,000)
is the highest-ever for dairy-cows.
Beef-cattle also increased in numbers
—by 145,000 to 2,341,000, compared
with 2,196,000 at - the 1955 count.
(3) The number of horses in the State
has been on the decline for many
years. This year’s figure of 247,000
was sad evidence of this when com-
pared with 258,000 last year; 311,000
in 1952; 404,000 in 1946; and 525,000
in 1942. The highest-ever was 746,000
in 1913. (4) The number of pigs in
N.S.W. at Mar. 31, 1956, was 343,000,
a decrease of 32,000 on the 1955
figure. The grunters were at their
peak in 1944, with a tally of 561,424.
* * * *
Measurements and other particulars
of (1) the discus, (2) the hammer,
used in Olympic Games contests?
(1) The discus is a round disk made
of wood, with metal plates set in the
sides and with a metal rim. No fixed
size is required, but the permitted
thickness of the discus at its centre is
a maximum lfin. for men and Hin.
for women, while minimum weight
is 41b. 6Joz. for men, 21b. 3£oz. for
women. The circle from which the
discus is hurled must be of not more
than Bft. 2Tin. diameter, and throws
must land within a sector of 90deg.
(2) The hammer is a sphere of iron,
brass or other metal at the end of a
wire not greater than -Jin- thickness,
to which a special hand-grip is
attached. The weight of the hammer
must be exactly 161 b., and it is thrown
from a circle 7ft. in diameter; the
throw must land in a 90deg. sector.
* * * *
Who was Henry Howard Meyrick,
of early Victorian history ?
Born in 1822 at Ramsbury (Eng.),
son of Edward Graves Meyrick, vicar
of Ramsbury (1811-39), he came of a
scholastic and clerical family. In
1839, with his cousin Alfred, he left
for Australia to join Alfred’s elder
brother Maurice (who had come here
a year or so before), reaching Mel-
bourne in May, 1840. Maurice had
a station at Boniong, in the Western-
port district, and Henry and Alfred
bought Colourt, 16 miles away, which
they held from 1840 till Oct., 1846.
(Henry also bought a property,
Narren-Gullen, nearer to Melbourne,
which he soon sold, as it was unsuit-
able for sheep- or cattle-raising.)
However, none of the Meyricks suc-
ceeded at Westernport, for various
reasons, and in 1844 Maurice gave up
Boniong and trekked farther afield to
Gippsland, Henry assisting him in the
move. Early in 1846 Henry and
Alfred also left for Giposland, taking-
up land at Glenmaggie on the La
Trobe River. There they had no
better luck, striking a very wet winter
through which Henry became crippled
in both arms with rheumatism and in
which they suffered heavy losses of
sheep (Alfred also became a semi-
invalid). In May, 1847, Henry and
Alfred were forced to sell Glenmaggie,
and were staying temporarily at a
station owned by a Mr. and Mrs.
Desa i 11 y . The latter being
dangerously ill, Henry Meyrick
offered to ride to Alberton for a
doctor, but was drowned trying to
cross the flooded Thomson River
(May, 1847). (Mrs. Desailly died
within a few days.) The story of
Henry Howard Meyrick is contained
in Life in the Bush, by Canon F. J.
Meyrick, published in 1939.
* * * *
Method of preparing (1) an
ordinary fly-killing paper and (2) the
found, 'absorbent paper that is laid,
water-soaked, in a saucer?
(1) Melt together, over gentle heat,
150 parts resin and 50 parts linseed-
oil; then stir-in 18 parts honey. Paint
the mixture on to a non-absorbent
paper or a sized paper—or even light-
weight wooden sheets. (2) Assemble
20 parts quassia chips, 3 parts
molasses, 1 part alcohol and 115
parts water. To soften-up the quassia
leave it in 10 parts water for 24
hours, boil for half-hour, set aside
for 24 hours, then press-out the liquid.
Mix this with the molasses and
evaporate to 4 parts. Add the
alcohol and remaining water and,
without filtering, saturate absorbent
paper with it. Set out on a plate or
saucer containing a little water.
Although both preparations are con-
sidered to be non-toxic, they should
be kept out of the reach of children.
Quassia can usually be obtained from
chemists.
Brief Answer*
D.L.M.M.: (1) The following
book, which can be consulted at the
N.S.W. Public Library (No. 5580.3/2),
will probably give you the informa-
tion you need — Dictionary of English
Names of Plants Applied in England
and Among English-speaking People
to Cultivated and Wild Plants, Trees
and Shrubs, in two parts, English-
Larin and Latin-English, by William
Miller (1884). (2) Write War Office,
Whitehall, London, 5.W.1....
K.Mc.: See Seventh Continent, a
saga of Australasian exploration in
Antarctica 1895-1950,” by Arthur
Scholes (published 1953) L.S.:
For an account of Morgan and other
bloodthirsty gentlemen of the Spanish
Main, consult Jolly Roger, “the story
of the great age of piracy,” by Patrick
Pringle (published 1953). Available at
Sydney Public Library V.P.: (1)
According to Besuchet, a French
historian of Freemasonry, Napoleon,
was initiated at Valetta (Malta) in
1798. (2) Frederick the Great, when
Crown Prince of Prussia, was initiated
at Brunswick on Aug. 14, 1738. (3)
and (4) No definite information, but
neither seems to have been (5) Mel-
bourne Cup winners (1910-1915,
inclusive) —Comedy King , .1 he
Parisian, Piastre, Posinatus, Kings-
burgh, Patrobus N. 8.: Ihe
great artists of the world are nevei
Puritans, and seldom even ordinarily
respectable” belongs to Henry Louis
Mencken; it is from his Prejudices,
First Series (Chapter 16) R-P-B.:
“Angels and ministers' of grace defend
us! ” is from “Hamlet” (Act I, Scene
iv) . T.0’8.: Fastest time in the
1907 Warrnambool-Melbourne road-
race was recorded by scratch-rider 1.
Larcombe (N.S.W.) —7hrs. 40min.
10sec G.P.: The term “paper-
hanger” for someone who writes
worthless cheques is of American
origin... .T.G.F.: “Dead bird, a
certainty; to “throw sevens,” to have
bad luck; “throw a seven,” pass out
(from the game hazards).. ..V.Y.:
M. C. Bradbrook’s work on Conrad
is Joseph Conrad, England s Polish
Genius (1941)... .D.L.: Sherlock
Holmes made his debut in Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle’s first book, A Study in
Scarlet, published in 1887. He last
appeared in The Case Book of
Sherlock Holmes (1927). The author
died in 1930... .A.C.G.: P. E. Joske,
in his The Law and Procedure at
Meetings, says: “An adjournment,
that is, a postponement, of a meeting
may be either to a definite date or
else indefinitely; it may also be to
another place. A meeting cannot be
postponed without first being held.
If a postponement is desired, the
meeting must be held and adjourned.
Where a postponement is attempted
without adjourning the meeting a
quorum may attend and carry on the
business” A.H.: The ten largest
ports in the U.K. are as follows'(with
foreign trade, coasting trade and total
trade, represented in thousand tons
net; 1954 figures). L0nd0n—46,676;
21,072 ; 67,748. Southampton—
-30,851: 8106; 38,957. Liverpool—
-28,531; 8044; 36,575. Tyne Ports —
8238; 8684; 16,922. Glasgow-
-10,464 ; -3984: 14,448. Belfast—23lB ;
11,138; 13,456. Hu11—9749; 2951;
12,700. Swansea —7871 ; 3165; 11,036.
Bristol—6442; 4016; 10,458. Middles-
brough—s39s; 2649; 8044,
SECRET RED TEXTBOOK
ON BRAINWASHING
Brainwashing (4/3 posted). Cold,
terrifying fact —a synthesis of
secret Communist textbook.
The Final Secret of Pearl Harbour
(40/- posted), by Admiral Theo-
bald. Foreword by Fleet Admiral
Halsey. Proves beyond doubt
that the attack on Pearl Harbour
was planned in WASHINGTON!
Unconditional Hatred (43/-
posted), by Captain R. Grenfell,
leading British naval strategist.
Shocking facts about Allied role in
World War Two.
Write for full list to:
THE HERITAGE BOOKSHOP,
Box 1226 L, G.P.0., Melbourne.
British and U.S. publication a not
available elsewhere in Australia.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C.S.: Since there’s a fresh
thought in it you might almost get
away with the sunset poem—in about
four lines.... K.S.: Far-fetched
ballads shouldn’t be fetched as far as
that D.E.: Here’s your start,
then: —
When once was held a lizards’ ball
Then every reptile large or small
Cried quickly, “Let’s go Annal”
. ...K.L.: Never start a poem with
“Have you ever” R.McG.: “And
crickets chirp incessantly, as if com-
prising an insect choir.” You could
say that in two words —“Crickets
chirp”—so why take ten? M.M.:
Amiable but off our beat. Surely the
last word should be “bun”?
P.J.: “When for whiffle do I nog?”
Why, whenever you like... .R.E.L.:
We sent your fairies to the museum.
They appear to be a new species.
M.F.D.: You’re joking, of
course:—
I read with delight each week.
Your “Answers to Correspondents.”
I’m still in your w.p.b.,
And yet haven’t reached despondence.
I’ll probably try again
To puncture your grim exterior—•
By way of a proof to me
I am not so damned inferior.
I really would like to meet
The man who conducts that column;
His humor is ultra plus . . .
Our meeting would not be solemn.
E.B.: “Mother Murphy’s
Christmas Stocking” was threadbare.
D.J.F.: William stands little
chance of steering that team of wild
bullocks into print... .P.M.: Rush-
ing your philosophical sundowner
back to the Never Never J.M.E.:
The first of this season’s bushfire
yarns was soon extinguished
F.A.: The old lady and her Seven-
teen cats were gently ushered off the
premises... .5.W.0’8.: Not ( seeking
a prose version of “Banjo’,
Paterson’s “The Man from Ironbark. ’
C.M.S.: Story of bush surgery in
the old days was a little too gory
for our liking... .A.M.: Black-
tracker now retracing his steps to the
Pilliga Scrub I.M .W.: Tender
little poems about the pansies, the
violets and the snowdrops lacked
freshness... .E.F.J.: Your hangman
who ate the condemned man’s break-
fast was sent to the basket... .B.B.:
It did not take us long at 252 George-
street to guess that the jackeroo
would (1) ride the station outlaw,
(2) give the shanty bully a hiding,
and (3) marry the squatter’s daughter.


£"k**T*S i
■V" ■
y *w,„i - s
n
&*!
?** '-***^l
>«4
:- :• '
' B "•'
The new 3 h.p. “Farmers’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
Our illustration shows one use for the
“FARMERS’ BOY
MAJOR”
which with the well known Farmers’ Boy Series II is filling
the wants of those who need a 3 h.p. as against a 1£ h.p.
Multi-Purpose Tractor. Both have a similar large range of
accessories for rotary hoeing, scything, ploughing, culti-
vating, etc., etc.
For full particulars please contact your nearest
State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty. Ltd., 32
Whiting St., Artanmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young St.,
Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St., Melbourne. MU8551.
Sth. Aust.: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Palteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: Buzaeotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2631.
Tasmania: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St.. Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. 82264.
W. Aus.: Western Machinery Co. Pty., Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD.,
32 Whiting Street, Artarmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers’ Boy Major”
and Accessories.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE COMPLETE CITRUS-GROWER
'THIS could be news to a good
J many people, interested in
one way or another.
Any day now possibly
before this week is out —there
will be available in the book-
shops the first book to be
published in Australia dealing
specifically with the growing of
citrus in our particular kinds of
conditions and widely varied
climates and situations.
Odd that the writing and
publishing of such an important
work should have waited till
now. But, then, there is no great
number of practical general
books on citrus-growing in the
whole world field.
Main tiling is that, now that
it has come, it is up to the best
standard in what books of the
sort can be. It is Frank T.
Bowman’s Citrus - growing in
Australia (Angus and Robertson;
635.), and apart from the wide
completeness of his coverage Dr.
Bowman has special qualities of
his own.
He is a clear writer, for one
thing. Short, direct, precise
sentences, planted and pruned to
say exactly what he has to say.
As another thing, he’s one of
those writers who make you feel
that the particular book you’re
reading represents their whole
life-interest and has been their
life-job (rare even in the broad
range of general literature).
The effect of this is to turn
what is, after all, a specialist
book, into almost a general-
reader book, and certainly a
book which anybody on the land
at all, or interested in land affairs,
could read with interest, and
profit.
Dr. Bowman has had long
experience, not so much by toil-
ing where you grow things (at
any rate, not commercially), but
Observations have been
made in New Zealand
over a period of ten
years to determine what
effect, if any, face
cover has on the lamb
and wool production of
ewes. The results show
that open-face sheep
produce more lambs but
less wool per sheep than
those which are cover
faced. Other interest-
ing facts revealed by the
observations are that
amongst open-face
sheep there are fewer
barren ewes and the
lambs are heavier at
weaning. But whether
lambs are the progeny
of open face or cover
face ewes they need the
protection of Elastrator
Rubber Rings. The
Elastrator Rubber Ring
method of marking and
tailing considerably
reduces the risk of fly-
strike with its attendant
dangers of disease.
turning his furrows where you
certainly have to know things
about how to grow things. He’s
now been 30 years with the
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture ; his present post, Prin-
cipal Research Officer. Also, a
noted university lecturer.
He ranges the whole story of
citrus-growing in Australia —
historical (in one or two
admirable introductory chapters,
calculated to snare any casual
reader’s interest), geographical
(from Cooktown, in the North,
down and around to Gin Gin,
in the West), and always practical
(selection of site for this locality
or that; where good citrus
country awaits development; the
variety of orchard ground-
designs, and the advantages or
otherwise of each ; the hows and
whys of planting-out; the varied
methods of cultivation and care
from then on ; the diseases and
pests that attack citrus, and how
to combat them ; and so on, right
into the packing-shed and pre-
cisely what goes on there, and
thence in due course to the
market, and which fruits, in their
order, are popularly best for it).
Dozens of illustrations —
photographs (some in color),
maps, diagrams—help-out both
the general attractiveness and
the practical side of the book.
Without overemphasising the
point of the book’s easy
readableness (it is definitely an
expert, even a scientific work,
not a mere “popular” book), it
can still be said that engaging
items of interest, and maybe of
surprise, crop up in just about
every chapter.
You might call these things
“author’s asides” —just things he
wants to tell you (as a good
storyteller does) for their own
sake, rather than to guide your
steps the right way (there’s
guidance enough for anybody,
anyway ; and detailed and exact
it is, too). Just as a specimen of
the “asides”: why lemons get
top place on sites in the Gosford-
Sydney citrus area. A favored
order of planting is: lemons on
the highest ground; the
Washington Navel orange on
the low ground (because it likes
the best soil-conditions); and
in between, Valencias, mandarins,
grapefruit (which are not quite
so fussy) :
The high ground is likely to be
shallower, perhaps stony, and to
suffer water-shortage faster than
lower ground. Since the east-coast
region is liable to dry spells in the
spring, the spring flowering is not
so likely to set heavily, and so later
flowering occurs, the ever-bearing
habit is encouraged, and the summer
crop, which is much more valuable
than the winter crop, is more
reasonably assured.
That it works-out, too, is suffi-
ciently pointed by the fact that
the Gosford-Sydney area is
No. 1 in Australian lemon-
production.
Laymen, even in the midst of
the area itself, may be surprised
to know that, of Australia’s three
main citrus-growing areas,
Gosford-Sydney again ranks
first. Yet you think of it as a
comparatively small region: a
coastal oblong-strip only 20-30
miles wide at most, and extending
only from a little north of Wyong
and Gosford to a little south of
Sydney.
The Murray Valley region,
which spreads (in pockets) over
three States, is second in order ;
the Murrumbidgee Valley region,
third. The ones most likely to
be surprised by this information
are possibly Sydneysiders, not
perhaps that they don’t know by
sight the extensive Hawkesbury
citrus lands, but rather because
of publicity and similar accom-
paniments of the fruit from the
other regions.
Other instances of reader-
interest information given, you
might say, largely for its own
sake could be lifted from almost
“Duggan s a ditherer !”
any page, and from data-tables,
maps and photographs as well.
E.g., “Although the Rough
lemon never appears in the retail
fruit-trade it must be regarded as
one of the important varieties
of citrus in Australia.... It is
the rootstock for probably
ninety-odd per cent, of the five-
million citrus-trees in Australia.”
Of course the complete citrus-
grower will take-in all such
information as essential know-
ledge giving him the right “feel”
for his occupation and for its
place in the general field of
primary production. He might
well think it similarly helpful to
have as background-knowledge
the information that citrus-
seeds came here with the First
Fleet, their trees flourishing
splendidly near Sydney till in the
big “wet” of 1860-70 root-rot
and collar-rot caught up with
them and “hundreds of acres in
the Parramatta district died.”
Which suggests there was a
fairly plentiful supply for earlier
Sydney, just as there is now.
One lot evidently escaped the
devastation:
In 1804 at Seven Hills a Mr. Joyce
began an orange-groVe which became
famous in the hands of the Pye
family. Many of the orange-trees
planted thus near Parramatta lived
for close on a hundred years, reached
a height of fifty feet, and bore as
many as forty bushels of oranges
each.
Whether he feels it is essential
to have that good broad grasp
of his own trade or not, it would
be a rare and extremely well-
informed citrus man who could
not find information of actual
practical value to him in Dr.
Bowman’s book. For the
beginner and the intending citrus-
grower it will be a must. It is
step-by-step instruction in how
to start, where to start, and how
to continue successfully.
Among other warnings, he
warns against “marginal areas,”
and it’s worth noting that that’s
about as near as he ever gets to
anything resembling professional
jargon: he not only knows what
to say but how to say it in plain
English:
As conditions vary appreciably
between districts, it is difficult to be
specific about the area required. An
area of ten acres of bearing trees
should provide a good living in most
cases. However, provision must b’e
made for stability of production at this
level by having an area of young
trees to replace the original area. If
the expected life of the trees is twenty
years, of which seven are taken up
in reaching appreciable bearing, then
a new lot of trees should be planted
when the first lot is thirteen years of
age. A rotational system has been
put forward by which if it is desired
to maintain twenty acres in bearing,
for example, the total area of the
planting is thirty-one acres.
Naturally, there is detailed
discussion of soils, rainfall and
the rest: in the Gosford-Sydney
area there’s successful growing
in three different kinds of soil.
On pure enthusiasm Dr. Bow-
man deals very thoroughly with
all such aspects. As a final
instance, the comparatively new,
very successful practice of rang-
ing fowls in citrus areas in the
Gosford-Sydney country in lieu
of cultivation.
It isn’t nearly enough for him
to tell you they do this, and give
you a generalised picture; he
gives you the exact instructions :
where to have the chookhouse,
and why just there; how many
chooks per acre, and what kind ;
how far chooks will be likely to
range downhill and how far up-
hill ; and, still not content, how
to build the chookhouse, what
size and shape are best, almost
how to drive the nails.
Dr. Bowman makes an
important acknowledgment to
another knowledgeable chap—to
Professor J. R. A. McMillan, of
Sydney University, for advising
him to integrate knowledge from
related agricultural sciences:
“These passages are short, but
they may serve to suggest that
broad fields of scientific
knowledge bear upon an
important matter to producers
and consumers —the culture of
the crop.”
Consumers, incidentally, may
be intrigued to learn that, just
as a matter of course, some of
the eyecatching citrus they
simply can’t resist gets that look
artificially, in gas-chambers—it
isn’t just a furphy. And, also,
much of the fruit they may
spurn on looks —because it
hasn’t its rouge on may
actually be juicier and tastier.
M.
Herd»festing
“Aerogenes”: There is no
magic about the actual process
of herd-testing. Dairy-herd-
production recording is simply
a matter of weighing the milk
yielded by each cow over a
clear 24-hour period, finding the
butterfat percentage, and calcu-
lating the daily yield of milk
and butterfat.
Any farmer could buy the
apparatus and do his own testing,
but by joining the Government
scheme he makes sure that the
job is done regularly, and he
gets official figures which may
be quoted and compared with
other farmers’ results without
question.
He contributes to, and gets
the benefit of, the testing-figures
of the whole State —figures
which are used (a) to estimate
the value of bulls at studs and
A.I. centres, ( b ) to guide Gov-
ernment policies, and (c) to
indicate the best in farming
practices.
The Government tester records
production once a month. He
gives the farmer monthly sheets
showing daily and monthly
yields and progressive totals,
and the same figures, sent to
headquarters, are used to calcu-
late the yield over 300 days.
There is an official section for
registered purebred cattle, with
official certificates, publication
of results and reports on the
worth of the bulls used.
The Babcock test for butterfat
is still the method used in Aus-
tralia. A measured quantity of
(Continued on next page)


m
So is
PHENOVIS'
The effective Drench for Worms in sheep
• Phenovis effectively controls the major intestinal worms in sheep.
• Helps sheep resist infestation.
• Helps keep pastures contamination-free.
© Worm free sheep produce 25 % more wool than worm infested sheep.
Insist upon the SUPERFINE quality
'PHENOVIS'
LIQUID OR POWDER
* DEPEHDmE niMjiyir^
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
P jOTECTIQ_ PRODUCT
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LfD.
1534.PHE.61X. 4082
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice Chairman).
SSXRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND. Managing Director. ?i. E. MANION, Manager,
liranchea in ail States Agencies in ail Country Centres
milk is placed in a flask with
a calibrated neck. Sulphuric-
acid is added to the milk and
gently swirled into a good
mixture. This acid first
coagulates and then dissolves the
casein, freeing the fat for easy
separation. A centrifugal
machine holding dozens of
flasks applies enough force to
bring the lightest part of the
mixture—the butterfat —up into
the neck of each flask, where it
is read-off against the calibra-
tion as a percentage of butterfat
in the sample of milk. Anyone
of normal intelligence could
do it.
There is magic, however, in
the farmer’s application of his
testing-results to the breeding of
hiS cattle and to their general
management. If the right use is
made of testing-data the results
can be astonishing.
In my own experience the
average production of a dairy-
herd was increased by 50 per
cent, in five years. The number
of cows was increased from 15
to 25, man-hours of labor
remained the same, the cost of
bought feed per cow fell 18 per
cent., and total production
increased 242 per cent.
It was a new project—new
cows on new country, with all
of its progress in front of it.
Development of breeding, feed-
ing and management all went
hand-in-hand, and all depended
on the facts secured in herd-
recording.
There is not only the simple
arithmetic of comparing the
figures for all the cows and
crossing out the last two each
year or all below 450ga15., or
whatever you set as the standard.
There are also the check on
feeding-system and milking-
routine and the constant incen-
tive to improve every detail
that might possibly bear on
production.
Again, when production is
known exactly the' practices
which do not increase it are very
soon dropped. When a farmer
weighs the milk for himself
between the tester’s visits he gets
much quicker checks on changes
in feed, management and the
effects of weather, etc.
As the picture fills-in, a man
loses his illusions about good
old Pansy, who fills a great
3gal. bucket with lovely frothy
milk twice a day. When he finds
out that the three frothy gallons
weighs out at 21.31 b., that the
fat-percentage is 3 per cent., and
that Pansy goes on holidays
after about five months’ milk-
ing, he’s inclined to prefer some
ugly, skinny wretch who keeps
up a genuine 351 b. a day for
nine or ten months, with an
average test of 4 per cent.
A little drastic culling leaves
him apparently short of cows,
but the magic of it is that he gets
more milk, his pasture-paddocks
are in better condition, and he
himself has less work to do. It
begins to seem worth while to
look after the better cows, to
rear their calves carefully and
gradually to drop the families,
not only the individuals, that
don’t compare well with other
groups.
So one thing leads to another,
one improvement leads to
further refinement and also
makes it possible financially,
until there is a sort of benign
circle, rotating merrily towards
more profitable dairying.
There is, however, a long way
to go yet before the average
N.S.W. cow of 2001 b, butterfat
catches up to the Victorian one
of over 3001 b., or before any of
them get near the top producers
of over 10001 b. of butter from
20-30,0001 b. of milk.
Wind Erosion
“Euro”: Even after a heavy-
rainfall year, wind-erosion can
be bad in sandy country; hence
these precautions advocated by
the Mallee (Vic.) Research
Station:
Leave the fallow as rough as
possible. Keep straw on the
surface. Do not cultivate too
fast, too dry, or too often.
Temporary relief can be obtained
by furrowing fallows deeply
while they are wet. Soil sweeps
away quickly when it is smooth.
Work hills and flats differ-
ently, according to their respec-
tive needs. Don’t neglect
sandhills because they are too
awkward to work with a tractor
Graze, but do not overgraze.
Take the sheep off fallow as
soon as they have (pleaned-up
the weeds.
Plough-in stubble, never burn
it. If there isn’t enough vegeta-
tive cover (dead or alive) on
the soil, sow a cereal —prefer-
ably rye.
Patch-up bare areas of soil,
however small, with straw,
stable-manure or something
similar.
Leave three-chain easements
on the windward side of roads,
fences, channels, telephone-lines
and anything else you want to
protect. Deep furrows also help
to catch sand which would
otherwise cover a fence.
Pigs, Potatoes
“Seer”: Market-forecasting is
one of the hardest things in
agriculture, but the odds are
short that there will be too
many pigs and too few potatoes
—in Victoria, at least —in 1957.
After two or three good
seasons, with demand keen and
prices high, a lot of pigs have
been mated this year. The pig-
lets they farrow are likely to
exceed the demand. Moral:
Even during a glut the best-
quality pigs bring the best
prices. Feed well right from
the start, and do not let the pigs
get too fat before sending them
to market.
For once high prices have not
sent everyone growing potatoes
this season—costly seed may be
one reason for. keeping new-
comers out of the spud-game.
Early estimates suggest that
the Victorian area under
potatoes will be no larger than
last year’s—about 20,000 acres
too small for the rising popu-
lation, even if we did not eat as
many potatoes as usual when
they were 2s. a pound. A crop
failure in any district could
mean that we will again not eat
so many next season, whatever
the price.
For once the old rule, “Sow
on a glut, not on a shortage,”
has not applied.
Capsicums
“Big Billy”: Capsicums are
increasing in popularity as a
summer vegetable; flavor
delicious, and numerous ways
of using them.
Rules-of-thumb that apply to
tomatoes are good. Ideal soil
is deep, rich, well-drained and
friable —one that will readily
absorb moisture. Where animal
manure can be got in large
quantities a dressing of four to
five tons per acre (or of poultry
manure, two tons) should be
applied just before ploughing. If
natural manures are not avail-
able a complete fertiliser at
10-15 cwt. per acre should be
used. An ideal combination
would be an application of
5-6 cwt. of market - garden
manure plus the animal-
dressings.
When the first fruits set, and
at regular intervals during the
growing-period, side-drelsings of
sulphate-of-ammonia will give
maximum results.
Seed should first be dusted
with Fernesan or Di Rot. Set
plants 2ft, apart in rows 3ft.
wide.
In dry summer periods, when
watering may be necessary, make
sure that no waterlogging
occurs; fluctuation of moisture
upsets the setting of fruits.
Capsicums attract many
insect pests, but sprays of
malathion at 14 to 21 days’
intervals will keep these in
check.
In preparing the large, thick-
fleshed varieties for the table
serve them like tomatoes in ripe
or green state, seasoned with
vinegar and salt. Or they may
be fried like tomatoes, stuffed
as a vegetable for a hot dinner,
or cooked in olive-oil and used
to stuff pitted olives.
Sunflowers
“J.K.H.”: Could “Billjim”
(B. 7/11/’56) be serious when he
advocated sowing sunflower-
seed at the rate of from 151 b.
to 201 b. per acre?
Here on the Darling Downs
(Q.) growers use 41b. or 51b. per
acre, and three authorities in
New South Wales recommend
seeding at the rate of 51b. to
81b., according to variety and
district, the rows being 3ft.
apart.
Downs growers prefer the very
dwarf kinds, and two late intro-
ductions are Polar Star and
Orano. Both of these only
reach a height of from 3ft. to
4ft., bearing one large head,
anything from Bin. to 12in.
across, which makes harvesting
very easy with an ordinary
header with a few minor adjust-
ments.
They are very hardy, and
crops sown in a moist seed-bed
have yielded heavily without any
further rain. The seed is grey-
striped, short and plump, and
is well filled.
Intending growers would be
wise to investigate market pros-
pects before sowing large areas.
There are many thousands of
bags of seed held on farms on
the Downs because the price
offering is so poor. Prime
graded seed is worth only about
£35 per ton at the Queensland
border, and growers claim that
this is barely sufficient to cover
production-costs.
How Pasture Pays
“Billjim”: Experience at
Rutherglen Research Station, in
Victoria’s north-east, indicates
that pasture-improvement more
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(2/12/’56)
Heavy rams and consequent flooding are likely On the
coastal areas of Queensland during January, but patchy in
the western division and poor in the south-west and southern-
border areas until March.
The coast and tablelands of N.S.W. should have
reasonably good rains during January; patchy in the western
division. February should also be a month of patchy rainfall,
apart from good falls in the far-west; but general rains
should commence in March.
In Victoria general rains above average should occur
in most of the State during January, with Gippsland an
exception, confined to light rain.
The agricultural areas of S.A. should receive good rains
in January, although only light in the pastoral areas and
west-coast.
Apart from some moderate rain in the Kimberleys,
January should be a dry month in W.A., with heatwave
conditions predominating.
LENNOX WALKER.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool, samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and stressing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


Now you can FORGET your
L'vr/ii
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BABREBE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO
(Dept. 3b), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
A Modern Self-contained Sanitary
System for All Unsewered Areas
m
m
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatically to
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
yOU CAN INST A!. IT! The simple instruction card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
• DISTRIBUTORS :*
N.S.W.: Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty. Ltd., 26 Bridge St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land),. 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
VIC.; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William St., Adelaide.
W.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (W.A.), 849 William St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Mel-
bourne; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also
Launceston, Tasmania.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
N. Guinea : Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
w
v v
&
BRAKES. 4 wheel, hydraulic, internal
expanding, 2-shoe double-anchor type
with vacuum booster. Hand : Propeilor-
shaft type mounted back of the trans-
mission.
ALL-TRUCK BUILT
FROM THE GROUND UP
Mechanic’s-eye view of the
International AS-160 series Truck.
NEW AUSTRALIAN BLACK DIAMOND
ENGINES. Designed for hard-slugging power on the
toughest Australian trucking job. Designed for more
usable horsepower-power developed at economical
engine speeds. No “beefed-up” motor car parts.
MIGHTY CRANKSHAFT. Heat treated, drop
forged steel crankshaft statically and dynamically
balanced. Overlapping bearing journals for increased
strength and rigidity.
' HEAVY DUTY 11-INCH CLUTCH. With roller
mounted rocking-action release fingers for less
pedal pressure. Fully ventilated design for better
v cooling, longer life.
ALL-TRUCK" TRANSMISSION.
Four
gear
speeds forward, one reverse
Synchromesh box,
mounted on unit with engine
PROPELLER SHAFT* Large-diameter heavy-steel
tubing with self-aligning centre bearing. Dynamic-
ally balanced.
FRAME. Pressed steel-channel frame built to
heavy-weight dimensions. High section-modulus
steel-flex.
\REAR AXLE. Full-floating single-reduction hypoid
type (AS-160, AS-161) —two speed hypoid bevel with
four pinion planetary spur reduction gears with
electric shift (AS-162). Nickel-chrome alloy steel
axle shafts.
TRUCKMEN DESIGNED THE CAB TOO !
Step in and try it for yourself—the excellent visibility—natural
angle steering wheel—all controls just where you’d want them.
Mr. Truckman. We’ve shown you some ways in which
International Trucks are “All-Truck” built to save you the
BIG money. Why not call at the International Harvester
office in your state or your nearest I.H. Dealer and see the
many other “All-Truck” features of these new International
Trucks.
YA
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
rwr ■ tmJm
than doubles both grazing and
financial returns.
Rutherglen manager J. G.
Bath has stated that the factors
responsible for this improvement
over a long period of years
(since 1912) have been topdress-
ing with super., sowing of sub.-
clover and Wimmera-ryegrass,
build-up of soil-fertility due to
the thus improved pastures and
the heavier stocking-rate.
At Rutherglen four-acre plots
were used. Unfertilised check-
plots carried one ewe and lamb
per acre; plots topdressed with
lcwt. of super, per acre every
second year carried two ewes and
their lambs.
In addition to supporting
double the number of stock,
topdressed pastures produced
heavier lambs of superior quality.
Although super, holds the key
to this success, other improve-
ments can be effected, Bath says,
by breaking-up land suitable for
ploughing where neces-
sary ; growing a few cereal crops
before sowing improved-pasture
species.
At Rutherglen farming under
a clover-ley rotation has proved
an excellent method of maintain-
ing a well-balanced pasture. This
comprised clover and ryegrass,
topdressed with the recom-
mended super, application.
Higher operational and
management costs, of course;
and so it’s difficult to assess
accurately the net benefit. But,
based on current wool-prices and
last season's lamb-prices, gross
returns per acre from ewes and
lambs grazed on the various
demonstration-areas were: From
untopdressed natural pasture,
£5 18s.; from topdressed natural
pasture, £l3 75.; from pasture
sown with sub.-clover and
Wimmera - ryegrass and top-
dressed annually, £l7 Bs.
In S.A/s South-east
“Sundowner”: Lime seems
likely to be the answer to the
development of more land for
agriculture in S.A.’s South-east.
Used as a fertiliser, lime has
already enabled the successful
establishment of legumes in trials
on deep, sandy soils in the last
two years, and it’s expected that
these results would apply over
a wide area of the sandy
country. In the past, difficulty
in growing pastures and the
potential erosion - hazard had
made much of this land com-
paratively worthless to the
farmer.
The mixture used in the trials
was one bag of ground limestone
and one bag of super, to the acre,
with a slight admixture of copper
and zinc trace-elements.
In two tests addition of
molybdenum had also given
increases in yields.
Farm Hints
“Wirrgea”: Pick-up those hay-
bales from the ground and put
them in a shed as soon as possible
after they come out of the
baler. Hundreds of thousands
were ruined last season because
of delay at carting time, and
many left out too long this year
rotted underneath.
“C.A.A.”: Although mould-
ing of the potato-crop is not
essential to the development of
sound tubers it prevents the
spores of blight from washing
through the soil and coming in
contact with them. Keep tubers
sufficiently covered to prevent
attack by moth. If rows are
well-spaced more soil will be
available for these purposes.
Delay moulding until foliage is
well developed, so that soil-
moisture is retained as long as
possible.
“Banyan”: It takes a day for a
heavy-in-lamb ewe to die once
she gets on her back and cannot
rise to her feet without help.
Keep a keen watch for cast ewes,
especially in crabholey country,
where it’s often easier to see
them from horseback than from
a utility.
“Quo Vadis”: For an
emergency lighter when no
matches are available, use the
jumping high-tension flash from
a disconnected spark-plug lead
to ignite the petrol-dam‘pened end
of a paper spill.
“Big Billy”: Vic. Department
of Agriculture’s survey, con-
ducted at Melbourne Royal,
showed that most people like
their bacon lean. Six rashers
from the “middles” of six
different pigs were selected to
show various amounts and
proportions of lean and fat.
Flavor and texture were not
considered.
“Billjim”: Flax trials near Mt.
Gambier have shown that zinc
added to super, increases yields
of fibre and straw length and
raises the value of a crop by
£2 an acre. The tests indicated
that 71b. of zinc-sulphate per
acre mixed with super, was
profitable in this district, one of
the most important in Australia
for flax. The mixture advised
costs an extra 3s. an acre.
“C.A.A.”: To guard against
dry-rot, delay potato-harvesting
until skins are mature, and avoid
injuring tubers in digging.
Potatoes dug under wet condi-
tions must be dried before storing
—moisture on the surface
provides ideal conditions for
invasion by the dried-rot fungi.
It is worth while to grade
potatoes before storing, destroy-
ing those affected, even slightly,
by disease. Remove damaged
potatoes and dispose of them as
soon as possible. Store in cool,
well-ventilated conditions, and
periodically check.
“Billjim”: An effective spray
for weeds in onion crops is
zineb at 21b. for each lOOgals.
Thrips may be countered with
0.1 per cent. D.D.T. in addition
to the zineb. An even coverage
will be ensured by using a
spreader (such as Agral) at 40z.-
to-6oz. each lOOgals. For
downy-mildew, the same spray
at 10-to-14-day intervals.
“Mai.”: Farmers in the Vic.
Mallee, which produces half of
the Cabbage State’s wheat-crop,
have been warned that within a
few years all wheat from the area
will be of unmillable quality
because of the prevalence of
saffron-thistle. The unusually
wet winter caused a prolific
growth of the thistle, along with
other undesirables. Although a
noxious weed, saffron has some
fattening value for turkeys,
when it’s mixed with a mash,
and there has been a limited
market for its seed, which is,
however, inferior to linseed as
an oil-producer.


NOW NON-STOP ACROSS THE ATLANTIC
D[7[
FINEST SERVICE PLUS FASTEST AIRLINER
STARTING JANUARY, 1957,
8.0.A.C. will progressively introduce
their magnificent new DC-7C airliners
on First Class services London-New
York and New York-London non-stop.
Soon DC-7Cs will operate on
Tourist Class services also. This long-
range 8.0.A.C. airliner will offer the
fastest trans-Atlantic travel plus luxury
and service rivalling the finest hotels.
You’ll be delighted with the quiet,
vibration-free travel . , . the spaciously
designed cabins, with their foam-soft
seating and handsome furnishings and
decor . . . the magnificent food and
wines . . . the friendly personal service
for which 8.0.A.C. is famous. And
the DC-7C is equipped with the latest
radar for fair-weather flying all the way.
Book “8.0.A.C. plus DC-7C !”
XV'
mmm
: mm***.
s*r:
Information and reservations from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Limited, ( 8.0.A.C . General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A6B/AU
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
osuixivan
; % PmiD ~
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New YorK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSER";
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Deafy Went Home
By MARTIN NESTOR
ALL right, Your Honor, I’ll
tell you my,side of the
story.
Of course, I know I
shouldn’t have done it, but I’d
sure do the same thing again
under the same circumstances,
This is how it all happened.
I was having a quiet one in
the Royal in Wellington, speak-
ing to no one and avoiding being
spoken to, on account of thinking
over a ton or two of knotty
problems, when a cove named
Deafy James sidles up to me.
I hardly know this Deafy
James. He’s as deaf as a post
and thinks everyone is the same,
so he bellows out at the top of
his voice. Once when he started
to earbash me I roared back
that I was deaf also, so he tried
to lend me his hearing-aid so I
could hear the rest of his long-
winded story. If I see him on
one side of the bar I go over
to the other side. But this day
I see him leering at me and
edging in my direction so I
resign myself to a short period
of monologue.
He says to me at the top of
his voice, “I’m going home!”
“0.K.,” I yell. “Goodbye!”
“If Joe Brown comes in, tell
him I’ve gone home!”
Now, I’d never ever heard of
a fellow of that name, but I nod
brightly and he goes. And am
I relieved!
I have a couple more just to
celebrate, but after a while I got
sort of remorseful about Deafy
and his message, so I think I’d
better do something about it.
So I says to the barman, “Do
you know a fellow named Joe
Brown?”
He doesn’t know but he calls
out to his offsider, “Do you
know Joe Brown?”
And the other don’t know
either. But as I’m downing my
pint I notice a beefy customer in
navy-blue serge trousers and
thick black boots looking kinda
suspicious at me and it doesn’t
need much intelligence to
deduce that he’s a cop. And
I don’t like cops.
Anyway, presently the flat-
foot comes round to me and
says, with an ugly gleam in his
eye, “You looking for Joe
Brown?”
I give him a dirty look and
says, “Well, what if I am? It’s
not against the law, is it?”
He looks me up and down,
real careful, and says nastily,
“I’ll remember you.”
“And I’ll forget you was ever
born,” I retaliate, turning my
back on him.
Well, I felt real good after
that but I don’t feel so good
when later I see he has a couple
of other flatfoots with him and
they all seemed to be taking a
lot of interest in me. However,
I’m not going to be scared just
because of that.
Then the barman beckons to
me and he says, “I passed on
your message to Bill Clark, who
thinks he knows Joe Brown,
He’s gone down to the Sham-
rock and he reckons Joe will be
there. He’s going to ring-up if
he is.”
“Hey!” I says. “I’m not that
keen on seeing this Brown
bloke. I just want to give him a
message.”
“Oh, that’s all right,” says the
barman. “Bill doesn’t mind
doing anyone a favor.” And
he goes back to his job of getting
his customers more silly than
they already are.
in a couple of minutes
in comes the manager, Dick
Saunders, and says to me,
“You’re wanted on the phone.”
As I walk out to the box he
says, a little sourly, “I don’t
mind customers using the phone
for urgent messages, but”
I says nothing, but pick up the
receiver. A strange voice answers
me.
“You the fellow who’s looking
for Joe Brown?”
“Blast Joe Brown!” I says,
with some heat.
“Oh, I know what it’s like,”
this cove says sympathetically.
“These fellows nip you for a
fiver or so”
“Look here!” I begin.
“No, it’s all right. I don’t
mind helping. I’ve been caught
that way myself. I was, told that
this chap went to Masterton this
morning and it so happens that
I’m putting a toll-call through to
the pub there, so I’ll ask about
him at the same time.”
“Like hell you will,” I say,
but the line goes dead. He
doesn’t even tell me who he is,
but I reckon I better find out
smartly and stop this telephoning
business.
I know Bill Clark slightly, so
I tell the barman I’m off to the
Shamrock to find him, and I
set sail. Well, it’s raining cats
and dogs and I gets real wet
tramping that half-mile. I hunt
through the bars looking for
Bill Clark but have no luck, and
when I ask the barman he says
Bill went out half-an-hour ago.
“He did say you were looking
for a cove named Joe Brown,”
he says. “I mentioned it to all
the fellows here and I think
we’ll find him all right.”
Well, I’m so mad I don’t
answer, but flip over a tanner
and get a handle. I’ve taken
only a couple of sips when a
taxi-driver conies in and yells
out, “Is there a Mr. Snapper
here?”
“Yes,, that’s me,” I answer
above the din.
He comes over and says, “I
was told to go to the Royal but
they sent me on here.”
“What for?”
“I took a fare home from
Naenae, pretty full he was, name
of Clark, and he told me to find
you and tell you that he thinks
Joe Brown went to Christchurch
last night.”
“How interesting!” I snarl.
His grin fades a bit and he
says, “And that’s ten-bob you
owe me.”
“Eh? How come?”
He gives me the sort of look
the income-tax inspectors are
born with and inquires with
exaggerated politeness, “You
think I run my cab on air?”
Well, I’m hopping mad and
start off to tell him just where
he can go when he interrupts.
“Supposing you come along to
the station with me? Or would
you prefer I bring a copper
here?”
I think quickly and I
remember what I told that
flatfoot only an hour or so ago.
Wouldn’t that coot be pleased to
see me! So I hand over the
ten-bob and the international
situation eases. As he goes out
he calls back, “If that Joe Brown
is the same fellow I’m sure he is,
then he went to Sydney by
plane couple of days ago. I
could find out. He said he was
staying at the Hotel Australia.”
Well, I make a dash for the
door, but I can’t get through the
crowd quick enough and when
I reach the street he’s dis-
appeared.
TT’S raining in torrents so I go
back and fill-in time by
having another. I reckon then
I’ve had enough, but as I’m
leaving a bloke comes running
after me —the pub’s night-porter.
“Hey, is your name Snapper?”
“That’s how I was christened
and I haven’t made any changes
yet,” I say, a bit savagely because
I don’t like people yelling out
my name in public places.
“Oh, it’s that way, is it?” he
says, just as angry because after
all he thinks he is doing me a
favor. “Anyway, a taxi-driver
just rung-up and he says he’s sure
that a cove named Joe Brown is
at the Hotel Australia all right.
He’s fixed up a radio-telephone
call for you, and Sydney will
be through in a coupla minutes.”
I can only stand there and
choke, and while I’m doing that
I hear the phone go. It’s been
switched over to the bar. I
turned to run but who should
I see but that infernal flatfoot
again. Since nobody seems to
be taking any interest in the
phone, least of all the porter, who
is downing double-brandies at
nuclear speed, he clumps across
and answers it, then turns to me.
“Your call from Sydney,” he
says meaningly,
Your Honor, what can I do?
I have to say something, do
something, so I says into the
phone, “Hotel Australia?”
A sheila at the other end says
yes, so I say is a Mr. Joe Brown
staying there.
She says no, there’s a person
named Joe Brown staying there
last week. He’s left, though, and
she understands he’s at Lennon's,
in Brisbane,
“Oh,” I says. “Well, if he does
happen to pop in, tell him Deafy
W ent home.”
At this the cop’s gimlet-eyes
bore holes through me .
tIT , ~ , , , , , ~,
~ \ be J’ leas fl‘ h ?° 8*
the sheila replies. What is your
,la ' ne ard adtlress? ”
Would you refuse, Your
Honor, or give fake information,
WJth six-feet of suspicious, blue-
bott,e alongside you? I tell her
and she hangs up.
'T'HIS time I’m determined to
1 get away. My whole day has
been ruined. Honestly, I forget
entirely about the phone-charge.
t be manager hasn t. He s
come fa from the office just as
Fve started speaking and is
watching me like a hawk, and
]lke a hawk he pounces.
“ You know this P hone is


Missing Friends
TO PATRICK MURRAY formerly of High
Street Prahran in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ALICE MAY
MURRAY has instituted proceedings
against you for Divorce on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office at the Supreme Court
of Victoria at Melbourne on or before
the 15th day of January 1957 and file an
answer in the said office on or before
the 25th day of January 1957 the case
may proceed in your absence notwithstand-
ing and you may be ordered to pay costs.
—JONES & KENNEDY. Solicitors. 213
Nicholson Street, Footscray.
ESTATE JAMES ANDERSON deceased.
WOULD FRANCIS JOSEPH ANDERSON.
i?m? f r£ H^ BLES ANDERSON and SUSAN
r IDLER, late of Tasmania, or anyone
"j* vil }g any information as to his where-
Pjease communicate with the
TRUSTEE, of 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne, the administrator of the
estate of his brother, JAMES ANDER-
SON, deceased?
WILLIAM DOULL.—Born Orkney, Scot-
iana, and one time resident in Western
Australia, or anyone knowing his where-
wnra’ t Please communicate with
WHEATLEY & SONS, Solicitors, 49 St.
George s Terrace, Perth, Western Aus-
concerning his entitlement in de-
ceased estate.
ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
flssm 5
mm
mmm®
m
4. • 5
i-SWiSisg
,J
MU
I
A'.:;
Mr. Nat Orr, Chairman of the Nelungaloo District Rural
Co-Operative Society Limited, Parkes, says: ‘7 have always
used Ampol Power Kerosine and oils on my property because
I am convinced you cannot buy better. The service, too, has,
been first class during the many years Fve been a user ”
Use the best
Australia's owa
• • •
ft
1
0
Ul
P o
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Ampol Distillate • Lighting Kerosine
• Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFMI.33
never to be used for toll-calls?
he snaps.
“I guess so,” I replies lamely.
“But actually I didn’t make the
call.”
At this the cop sniggers and
says, “Yet you knew it was
Hotel Australia at the other
end! ”
I try to explain, but they both
get the idea that I’m trying to
dodge paying. As soon as I
cotton on to this I pull out my
wallet to square accounts and
then I find there’s only a quid
in it, and it turns out after the
manager had rung exchange that
the bill is £4, which is cheap
enough for that kind of call
but £4 dearer than its value to
me.
They won’t let me go home to
get more dough and the manager
won’t let me even have a drink
till I’ve paid that bill. So I ring-
up a taxi-chap I know and tell
him to go hell-for-leather to my
place and get a fiver from the
wife. He says he’s just leaving
work but will get another driver
to go.
So I wait, getting thirstier and
madder and feeling the size of
threepence with everyone staring
at me and whispering to each
other that at last the cops have
nabbed the coot who murdered
those two old women down
south.
The taxi-driver comes in and
says there’s nobody at home and
the place is locked up. I tell him
to break the door down and
search my pants-pocket in the
front-room wardrobe. He looks
pretty thoughtful and the cop
takes a hand.
“You own that home?” he
asks.
“No, rent it.”
“Who’s your landlord?”
Well, like a goat I think he’s
going to volunteer to go get the
extra key, and I enlighten him.
And before I can stop him he’s
rung-up old Wiseman and asks
does he mind if his tenant
smashes down his front door.
Wiseman doesn’t see the point at
first but when he does he nearly
has a fit. “I’ve been trying to get
him out of the house for the past
two years!” he screams. “Break
down my door, eh? I’ll have the
law on him!”
Your Honor, you tell me —
where is there a way out? You
can’t think of one and neither can
I. But I remember my solid-gold
watch that the factory gave me
when I went overseas to stop
Hitler. I offer that as security,
saying I’ll be back with the cash
as soon as the old woman
returns.
“If she ever does return! ” the
publican says darkly, staring at
the watch.
“Where did you lift that
from?” says the cop, also staring
hard at the ticker and trying to
remember bits he’s read in the
“Police Gazette.”
Then the phone goes again
and this time it’s a collect-call
from Christchurch for me. Yes,
you’re right. Joe Brown isn’t
staying at Coker’s; and another
twelve-bob goes on the bill. And
now the publican is hopping
mad.
By sheer good-fortune, in
c’omes a bloke named Lawson
from the factory and, noting the
shemozzle and me in the middle
of it, he wanders over to see
what’s happening. He’s a silly
sort of coot who talks and
laughs too much and does strange
things like kissing his own wife
at a party, but at least he’s a
friend of sorts, so I explain
everything to him.
H E believes me. He hasn’t the
his cheeks, and when the other
blokes in the bar hear what s
happened they all laugh too—
at me. Lawson hands me a fiver,
saying he doesn t mind if he
never gets it back as it s worth
more than a fiver to see me in
such a pickle.
“What a yarn to tell the boys
at work on Monday! Haw,
haw, haw!” And of course he
does tell them, and now I’m
looked on as the works’ lunatic
and Deafy is still screaming out
the story from one end of
Wellington to the other.
Well, eventually even the cop
and the publican melt and there
is me standing there like isilly
galoot, and I’m really a pretty
self-conscious type. When a
telegraph-boy comes in with a
wire—-collect—telling me that
Joe Brown is not m Auckland,
and another saying that the
police in Dunedin are instituting
inquiries, the roof nearly comes
off , , T , .
For shames sake I have to
ft
—wSTand rm
p hone-calls from as far afield
as the Huttj nearly al f of them
f rom practical-jokers. I even
ge t a call saying that the penguins
have no knowledge of Joe
Brown’s whereabouts in Antarc-
tica
The publican gets tired of this
after a while and rings up the
exchange to disconnect his
phone. That night his show
is burgled and though he sees
the thieves making their getaway
he can’t put the patrol-car on
their tail because he’d forgotten
to get his phone re-connected,
He lets me know I’m never to go
back.
YI7ELL, I stay an hour and go
home, and hell’s popping.
A neighbor has spotted the
taxi, without any passenger in
it, stopping outside our door,
and has rung-up Mum to say
she fears something terrible has
happened to me. Mum’s at a
pretty important meeting of
town-gossips, but has hurried
home pronto, rung a lot of pubs,
but not the right ones, and has
then switched over to the police
and the hospitals.
I go crook. She goes crook.
After I’ve told my story she
looks kind of anxious and wants
to ring a doctor—a nerve-
specialist.
Now, Your Honor, up to this
point I’m not complaining—
much—but on Monday I get a
cable from Mandalay, saying
“Returning at once.” Yes, it’s
signed “Joe Brown.” How can
I stop him, when I don’t know
his address?
And four days later he’s on
my doorstep, just after tea,
looking wild and haggard after
flying those thousands of miles,
and demanding to know what
my cryptic message meant. I
don’t know it at the time, but
I learn later that a year or so
before be has been mixed up in
some sort of swindle that the
cops are still inquiring into, and
thinks that everything had
become known and I am a
blackmailer or something of the
sort. That’s why he hasn’t
dared cable or phone me asking
me to clarify my message, which
I suppose was a bit mystifying
seeing that Deafy was unknown
to him, merely being a painter
who has put in a tender to paint
his fence and has somehow got
the idea that Brown would have
called into the Royal that Satur-
day afternoon. The mere fact
that I, a stranger, have rung
him up in Sydney, is enough.
The busybodies in Sydney and
Brisbane have spared no effort in
tracing him, confound them.
I tell him what’s happened.
He gets hysterical and says
he’ll take me to court if I don’t
pay his return-fare to Mandalay.
It’s then, Your Honor, that I
clock him.
Wouldn’t you, honestly, have
done the same? And if you don’t
mind me saying it, Your Honor,
this is not the time and place for
anybody, even a magistrate, to
snigger.


Bata in Spanish Guinea, and there
they have their best and most for-
bidding experience, with a Senor
Carmona, completely bald, hard small
eyes, a vulturine air—who scrutinises
their passports with terrifying severity,
asks if they have any unusual stamps,
takes their stamps for his collection,
charges them threepence each for their
exit-permits, gives them Spanish stamps
in exchange and tells them to leave in
an hour or be imprisoned. The Spanish
stamps, of course, are exchangeable in
the district—the ogre has made them
a present of 30s.
At Lagos, in Nigeria, Anna decides
to take the plane to Casablanca; maybe
she has had enough of swimming with
Mr. Pinney and drying-off on the river-
bank and nothing happening, or sleep-
ing in different rooms in deserted
native villages with only the fleas—it
wouldn’t do in a contemporary novel,
or maybe it points to the novel of the
future—but the reader who wearies of
Mr. Pinney here will miss his best
scenes: in Liberia, where he is merely
poor white trash in a negro democracy,
where the inhabitants all talk like
cullud American bandsmen, where he
contracts with President Tubman to
write a book of Liberian folk-tales for
a thousand dollars down and a
thousand dollars on completion, where
he lives in a hut on the beach at
Monrovia and goes swimming after an
afternoon-party on rum with some very
odd characters.
The folk-lore book being written.
and Mr. Pinney being rich, he travels
to Bamako by plane, and thence
engages a taxi to take him to Gao.
Worried lest his dollars may tempt his
travelling-companions, he leaves the
taxi and joins a party of travelling
native musicians. Then, on his way to
Gao again by river, he gets off the
boat and walks to Timbuktu, where he
argues with a learned Caid about
religion and sleeps at night in a beauti-
ful garden because a beautiful Arab
girl smiled at him—and takes his leave
of the reader.
There are some of the wonderful
negro crowd-scenes that Mr. Pinney
does so well, and a little Bushman
being brought all bloody in v a canoe to
‘
c °mbat, and Anna and Mr. Pinney
au ctioning cheap prints in a Nigerian
market to make a bit of money, and a
leper-colony in the Cameroons, and
Mr. Pinney being offered wives and
sisters when he is staying the night,
and turning them down; and there are
photographs of Mr. Pinney in the kilt
and Anna in the pants, and of black
men and dancing-girls.
In Mongolia
Mabel Wain Smith, who has been
contributing to “The Bulletin” since
she has been living in Sydney, is a
Philadelphia Quakeress who spent
some time in China, where a trip to
Mongolia to do articles for “The China
Digest” gave her the material for her
hook Land of Swift-Running Horses
(Harrap).
Having talked and bribed her way
across China, she was met at the
Mongolian border by her assigned
Mongolian chieftain, a huge Swede
with the Mongolian title of Count
conferred by Prince Sunit of Inner
Mongolia. He came to take her to his
horse-farm in a new Dodge, and he was
in a hurry because one of his hench-
men was holding down a half-Mongol,
half-Chinese sheep-stealer in the back
seat. The sheep-stealer was being
indented as camp-cook, and the Count
was afraid that if he drove too slowly
he might jump out of the car.
Three days later they arrived at the
Count’s horse-camp near the edge of
the Gobi Desert, and Miss Wain Smith
had her first taste of living in a yurt,
or white-felt tent. Veiy soon she dis-
graced herself by not being able to
control her mettlesome horse when it
was attacked by wolves; and she saw
the Mongol herdsmen lassoing wolves
—the lassoes are run like fishing-lines
along long poles, and the loops are
rather pushed up and back over the
horse’s or wolf’s head, from in front,
than thrown from on top and behind,
The Mongolian horse was vastly
improved when Jenghis Khan ruled the
world in the 13th century. His armies
were able to bring him back the best
Arab strains; and since then the
Mongols have imported Siberian and
Polish horses, and added to their studs
from horses sent by Germans, French,
Italian and British to the Boxer
rebellion, and stallions at the end of the
Russo-Japanese war . . . very tough
animals they are, from eleven to
fourteen hands, and Miss Wain Smith
stages a horse-fight to the death which
is not inferior to one by Henry G.
Lamond.
She was taken to Burkhanol to see
two women missionaries, Ruth and
Naomi; she found Ruth teaching her
flock how to kill a sheep. It appears
that the Mongol way of killing a sheep
is to make a hole in it through which
its heart can be squeezed by hand; an
instant death and saving of blood, but
the sheep inexpertly killed in this way
may come alive while it is being
skinned, so the missionary Ruth was
teaching them how to cut its throat.
The sheep leads up to a banquet of
Mongol nobles —one sheep between
eight of them, and this, and such
details as the beaten-silver food-dish
that every Mongol carries hooked in
front of him wherever he goes, is care-
fully described as seen through a
peep-hole in the yurt.
There is some camel-riding and a
visit to the palace of the Prince of
Sunit, where the Sunit Princess showed
her the delicate courtesy of exchanging
snuff-bottles when shaking hands. That
is why they shake hands twice, so that
each gets her own snuff-bottle back—
only the Princess insisted on an uneven
number of handshakes, so that Miss
Wain Smith was left with the Princess’s
snuff-bottle, of carved silver, with a
jade-and-gold-encrusted stopper.
Also there is an account of how the
Old Leader, or camp-foreman,
Demchik, decided it was time to die ;
retired to his tent; smoked a cere-
monial pipe ; waited for the Count to
visit him, and turned over on his side
and died ; and of the lamas conducting
the long funeral ritual, which concludes
with knocking a hole in the dead man’s
head to let his spirit out, and exposing
him to the vultures.
And of how 16-year-old Jeshignor at
the mission was put in a yurt on the
edge of the camp to await suitors ; and
how she refused to see anyone, until a
party from the Count’s camp eloped
with her she ready-dressed and
brought her home to be married to the
Count’s best young herdsman . . .
All-in-all, it is a very clear view of
mysterious Mongolia.
Aboriginal Legends
Some of them reprinted from “The
Bulletin,” the aboriginal legends in
Roland E. Robinson’s handsomely-
produced The Feathered Serpent
(Edwards and Shaw) are as attractive
as were those in his‘’earlier “Legend
and Dreaming.”
Mr. Robinson tells these tales better
than anyone else one can think of. He
is seldom boring; his appeal is seldom
restricted to the specialists; he is usually
delightful.
There are two reasons for his con-
spicuous success in a field in which so
many earnest attempts have failed.
The first is the combination of
selectiveness and good fortune which
has given him so many tales of
immediate popular appeal. Many of
the aboriginal legends, though
essentially no odder than our own
mythology from European sources—
even Ovid’s “Metamorphoses” are
readable only in brilliant patches —are
too bizarre ever to have much interest
for a general audience. They just don’t
make sense, even fairytale sense, to a
European mind. Some, the. aborigines
have no false shame whatever about
physical details not mentioned in polite
society, will always appear crude to
readers not accustomed to such frank-
ness. And many others, having to do
with placenames, are of little interest
unless you happen to live in the
locality.
But when Roland Robinson drops
on to his two stories of water-lubras
in “The Feathered Serpent”—stories
which, except for their Australian
setting, might as well be about the
naiads of the Greeks —he has some-
thing of universal appeal. It is a capti-
vating addition to the world’s stock of
popular mythology.
“The Water-lubra and the Lotus-
bird” tells the charming story of how
Nogamin found a water-lubra, far from
her native element, when he was out
Poets from the Six States
VARIATIONS ON A MEDIEVAL
THEME
Strong, but with gentleness,
Young, but womanly,
She weights' with wantonness
Her guarded beauty.
Her eyes are all earth’s colors
Flickering in her face,
Whose flesh with bone concurs
In one perfect embrace.
No other colors she uses,
Her lips are their own red;
She is kind, refuses
Me nothing, not even her bed.
But distance now defeats
The image that l see.
Sweetest under all sheets
She lies where J cannot be.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
BACHELOR UNCLE
When you came visiting
the house was sour and strange.
The past was all betrayed
by unknown youth and change.
And in the children’s glance
that turned from you and ran,
you saw instead of yourself
an empty, cross old man-
left on one side by all
but the old clocks on the wall.
Flickering brittle and dry
as an ageing artery,
they spoke time’s cruelty.
So you took down each clock ,
undid its insect-shell,
till spring and coil and wheel
littered your room’s cold cell,
and disarticulate
old time your enemy
ran mad with chime and bell
of sick machinery.
There day by day you sat,
intent and desolate,
with sharpened lip and eye
lizard-close and dry—
an old man gone awry.
Then it was time to pack,
rime to be gone again.
You put the wheels together,
oiled the clocks with a feather,
and set and took them back.
Time’s true and must be told
to the meticulous second;
and your week’s work was reckoned
a service due to pride,
neat-handed though grown old.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
SUMMER BAND CONCERT
Tired with its dogs and doves
the park’s distracted tunes
sprawl across the littered green,
these slow and tedious afternoons.
And there a brassy serenade
and here two lovers come to rest.
Beneath a pampered laurel-tree
he leans his head against her breast.
And round and round the waltzes go :
smeared lollies in a bag;
the formal tunes and gardens merge:
the light exhausts, the music drags—
and sleep condemns the lovers’ eyes,
the gardens blind . . . He draws her near
and puts, his arm beneath her back
and whispers darkness in her ear.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
THE UNEXPECTED
The party, which began benign and
primed
With many visits to that rich array
Of bottles at the bar, discreetly seemed
To gather subtlety instead of speed;
Eyes that were gay
Slipped into webs of grey, suspicious lines
And undercurrents darkly seemed to
sweep
And coil as in cobbled midwinter lanes
The black rainwaters rush to trap your
feet.
In place of steep
And brilliant lances of their laughter
thrown
About the room, in place of flying jokes
Thumping their ribs, among the guests
were seen
The forms of hatred, venomous and low
As crawling snakes.
Small wonder that the host felt broad
relief
When blown steam and the quick hustle
of feet
Proclaimed the supper’s entry. Fired with
life,
The hennaed and high-breasted serving
women
Brought smoking meat,
Great roasted haunches, peacocks primed
with spice,
Tongues in a gleaming bed of jispic and
A pyramid of tiny fowls. With grace
Those salver-bearers whipped up the
desires
On every hand
Of palate and the loud cry from the
thighs.
Then; with a sudden flaring entry, walked
A beauty swaying in that path of eyes
With a great silver dish and laid it down.
Then no man talked
For all their eyes were fixed in fear upon
The terrible severed head of Jokanaan.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABEE.
E POETS OF DESPAIR
I tread the pummelled beach,
City beyond, and think
The black, gull-speckled reach
Of rock a harder place,
Where no man goes to sink
His wordy, poet’s face,
But stalks his shadow where the seabirds
cry.
I might have made my mark
With those self-pleasing men,
Pitched voices in the dark
Who light the Coming Age,
Might have fulfilled the thin
Commandments of their rage,
But stalk my shadow where the seabirds
cry.
I’ve played my hand at love’s
Bitter-faced despair;
The game no longer moves,
The cards being marked, and they
A scraggy gang who wear
Self-martyr’s words of grey.
/ stalk my shadow where the seabirds
cry.
N.S.W.
C. K. STEAD.
THE RECLUSE
His mind was a long seashore where the
tides
Cast up their wrack; and year by year
the sea
Roared to his waking, and the whistling
wind
Gnawed him with teeth of sand
perpetually.
“Eheu fugaces” was his life in words,
Though on occasion this would be com-
bined
With “qui trans mare currunt” and so
on,
Which had some special meaning,
undefined.
“My life is shells,” he said, “and drifting
wood
And bottles without messages; my land
The soft hills white as wool about the sea,
The bright sea hard as glass around the
sand.
“King Philip’s men, three centuries ago,
Named it La Costa Blanca, the white
coast. ’
So many years, so little change. Eheu.
Oh time, unbuilding time,” cried the
ragged ghost.
And all his days like driftwood he picked
up i
And scrutinised and broke across tus
knee.
“How long, how long must I sing to the
singing wind
And weave my intricate word-wreaths for
the sea ?’*
W.A.
RANDOLPH STOW.


A
HAUNTED LAND
Randolph Stow
Here is the first novel of a young West Australian poet. You
know him as a fine poet; he is also an unusually gifted novelist.
“Really amazing rendering not only of persons and their passions, but
of the landscap t?'—Elizabeth Bowen. “Shows tremendous promise
has a sweep and power seldom to be found in a first fictional
effort.” —Dublin “Evening Herald
Price: 17s.
MACDONALD
AVAILABLE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
a hundred years ago
THE TONTINE
was a gamble with death
TO-DAY
THE TONTINE
is a winner in the Christmas gift stakes
This novel by THOMAS COSTAIN, author of “The Silver
Chalice,” etc., is bringing delight to millions of readers. For
your own enjoyment and a perfect gift, remember to buy
to-morrow from all booksellers
THE TONTINE
Collins Publishers
ENTERTAINING READING
THE DRUMS GO BANG
by Ruth Park and D’Arcy Niland
From two writers who have won inter-
national fame as novelists comes this
light-hearted joint autobiography of their
first five years together as husband and
wife. It tells of the hardships and of the
fun they had in their struggle to become
successful freelance writers. Illustrated.
16/- (post 7d.)
THE COUNTRY UPSTAIRS
by Colin Simpson.
In this entertaining book the author of the
“Adam” series gives a fascinating and
unbiased picture of Japan today. “The
volume is charmingly produced, packed
with colour-plates, photographs and
maps . . . Among Australian travel books
of its kind, it is outstanding.” (“The
Sun,” Sydney.) 35/- (post lid.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
BLACK COCKATOOS MEAN SNOW
by ELYNE MITCHELL
This pastoral novel, set in an Australian sheep-farming valley, surrounded
by wild mountains among whose high solitudes men may find wisdom and
peace, unfolds the lives of highly individual people who have become part
of the land they love. It traces the heartbreak of an impossible marriage,
the doubts of a reluctant bachelor, and conveys the satisfaction and genuine
romance of family life.
Retail Price in Australia, 15/6 (postage extra)
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
HODDER & STOUGHTON LIMITED
hunting; and how—she prudently lay
face-down in the dust when he appeared
—it eventually occurred to him that
she might be a woman; whereupon he
pursued her and she slid out of his
reach up a bottletree and he, for his
impiety, was changed into a lotus-bird
and now spends his time running over
the waterlily leaves crying “Keir, keir,
ngeir!” As well he might.
“Ngalmin and the Water-lubras,”
equally fetching, tells how Ngalmin
found one of these dark naiads in the
Fitzmaurice River, speared her in the
thigh and took her away to camp in
dry places, until one day he rashly sent
her to a billabong for water, so she
escaped and rejoined her kind; and
Ngalmin, forlornly searching for her,
was seized and drowned by the
Rainbow-snake . . . but not before he
saw one enchanting glimpse of all the
local water-lubras. really worth being
drowned for, and, except that the
setting is Australian instead of Greek,
exactly like a Norman Lindsay water-
color:—
Ngalmin was thinking all the time
about that girl. All the time he saw
girls lying out in the sun along the
river-banks. Through the figtrees
and pandanus he came. He saw
twenty girls all lying about in a
leaf-patterned space of sand and sun-
light. Then, beside the bank, half
in and half out of the water, he saw
the Rainbow-snake. And lying beside
the Rainbow-snake in the water, he
saw his girl, his woman . . .
One of the stories, indeed, “The
Flood and the Bird-men” (about a
great flood covering the land, and the
people clustering on a hilltop, fighting
off the snakes, until at last Karan sent
off two honeyeaters to find a tree, and
one of them came back with a leafy
branch in its bill), is so extremely close
to our own Biblical mythology that it
is hard to believe that the aborigine
who told it to Roland Robinson had
not simply adapted the story of Noah
to a local setting. Yet Mr. T. G. H.
Strehlow, who writes the foreword,
doesn’t appear to think so: at least h
says no more than that this story, and
the water-lubra legends, are “Aus
tralian variants of themes found also
in Old World settings.” And i
wouldn’t matter if Noah had somehow
got mixed-up with it: it is a charming
“Australian variant.”
The point of appeal in these stories
is not just that they resemble our own
but that they are comprehensible
They have human drama in them; and
plausible fairies.
Nothing could be more thoroughly
aboriginal than “Moitjinka, the Old-
woman of the Ngowaroo Ceremony”
(“related by Kianoo Tjeemairee of the
Murinbata tribe”); yet minds attuned
to, say, “Hansel and Gretel” can
instantly appreciate this wicked
old lady who, instead of popping
unwelcome visitors into the oven,
changes into a goanna and hides in a
hole in the ground into which
aboriginal hunters, pursuing her,
tumble and are knocked on the head
with a stone. It is quite as pleasing as
in any European witch-stoiy to see
the old lady come to the bad end she
deserves:—
As the fire burned up he saw the
old woman change into a big goanna
and the little girl into a little goanna
and go into a hole in the ground.
The two men ran back to the camp
and got their spears . . .
But the second reason for the
unusual appeal of these stories is really
more important than the occasional
excellence of the stories themselves:
for by means of it Roland Robinson is
able to make even his most bizarre
offerings, even his mere placename
legends, if not equally effective still
eminently readable. The secret here
is his style—the perfect vehicle which,
with his deep human sympathy for the
aborigines and his poet’s sensitivity to
language and rhythm, he has developed
for telling the legends.
His writing is simple, earthy and
rhythmical; it is sometimes strikingly
dramatic, often diverting with naive
humor; and at all times, in the
harmonious blending of simple, basic
English with pidgin and native words,
it has the unmistakable flavor of
authenticity, as if the aborigines,
instead of having European outlook
and style imposed on them, as so often
happens, were being allowed for once
to tell their own stories in their own
way.
Murder of Olympia: Margot Neville
(Bles). Set in Melbourne and published
to coincide with certain events there,
it is about the disappearance of a
beautiful semi-divorced woman from
a beauty-parlor and the discovery later
of her murdered body. This involves a
beautiful young sculptress who shares
the beautiful murderee’s cottage, and
a handsome doctor and his drugs, and
an Olympic runner called Larry, who
is beloved of the beautiful murderee
and loves her to distraction—it’s got
everything; and has been done very
well.
NEW TITLES
New books and reprints by
Australian writers not yet
reviewed on the Red Page
include:—
Westward from Cocos (travels;
Australasian Publishing Co.), by
Coralie and Leslie Rees; Goonoo
Goonoo (novel; Cassell), by Frank
O’Grady; The Sponge Divers
(novel set in the Mediterranean;
Collins), by Charmian Clift and
George Johnston; A Haunted
Land (novel; Macdonald) by
Randolph Stow; Sydney, the
Story of a City (history; Mel-
bourne University Press), by
Marjorie Barnard; Tropical
Tapestry (travels; Georgian
House), by A. C. Lock; and, all
from Angus and Robertson, Such
Is Life, by Tom Collins (reprint),
The Way of the Whirlwind, by
Mary and Elizabeth Durack
(illustrated aboriginal tale for
children; reprint), The Country
Upstairs, by Colin Simpson
(travels in Japan). Who Rides on
the River?, by J. K. Ewers (novel
about Sturt), The Silver City, by
lon Idriess (the story of Broken
Hill), The Drums Go Bang, by
Ruth Park and D’Arcy Niland
(autobiography).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 412
Across
I—Old-fashioned gunmen who hide
square rubies. (12)
6—Lady’s maid has a large-scale
decline in health. (7)
8— Swished with the tongue. (7)
9 Mirth by the trail furniture.
(3-4)
10—None among nuns. (5)
12 — Chum swallowing an ex-convict
kind of cadence. (6)
13— Boots. (5)
15 —One hair is back in Park, a
town in N.S.W. (5)
17 —A month to get to the border
because of the crime. (6)
20 He can be declared black in the
Brisbane Ground or the
Melbourne Ground. (5)
21 Female relative of Hiawatha
backed in to knock out Mimi.
(7)
22—Asians. (7)
23 I cool it badly with respect to
rock consisting of roe-like grains,
u)
Stage direction to buy a drink
-° r the sainted Bishop of
Winchester. (6, 6)
Down
1 — This makes one pop over your
indifference. (6)
2 Lit back before Leo Dionne
comes at the first figure. (11)
3 Improbabilities bearing no
resemblance to 51 namesakes of
Robin. (13)
4 Fish-eggs are over a dollar —
which is certainly rather deer.
(7)
5 Practise a stage-show about an
undertaker’s vehicle. (8)
7 Is a New Guinea Scotch among
an ape’s relative first? (5)
8 — Simon’s auction could be
affecting holiness. (13)
11 —Scotch cream used in a game of
football. (6, 5)
14—A State pianissimo to rent a
precious stone. (8)
16 —Hamlet might expect to be
purified by such kitchen swill.
(7)
18— Bumpkin slavery is over 50. (5)
19 — Timber is able to be like the
small High Commissioner with
an item of hearth equipment.
(3-3)
Solution to Crossword No. 411


fXv.
ilil
m
mmmmm
mm
life "if
»»
R«g®
*
%Ki
«
mm
Sif
V-
- : . v
illlllllfll
:.:;v: : :.:•;
mm
m
m
K? SS?
:•:
■•■.-xS-v
ill
m ■
S&i*.
®S-
• : ■• •:
V..
m
mm
■ ::
m
mmmmm
m
wm
m
mmmmmmm
sef.
W
1 M
m
mmmmm
■ ss» ■■■ :■'
.C.*4§*§:.
8? ¥ W:
It’s holiday time. Mums and Dads and kids
everywhere will get in the family car and
drive into the country . . . down by the sea
. . . or just to say “ Merry Christmas ” to
friends. Will they come home again—safe
and happy—or will they be killed in road
accidents ? Will Death claim you . . . your
wife . . . your children this Christmas ?
Australian roads have “just growed ” from
the wandering pioneer tracks of yesterday.
They aren’t built to carry the ordinary,
everyday flow of traffic. On holidays they
break down completely—and kill. Over
4,000 —yes, 4,000 —accidents happened dur-
ing holiday weekends last year 1,607
people were injured, 106 killed. These
victims weren’t just bodies—they were
people you worked with, people you knew,
people you liked. Now they’re dead. Soft
shoulders, sharp bends, blind corners, S-
bends, railway crossings, dangerous crests,
potholes—these are the killers.
Death didn’t take a holiday last Christmas
—he was riding high.
We can cut this slaughter —we can
improve our roads, make them fine, wide,
safe highways. We can do this by support-
ing the campaign for a national roads
authority—an authority strong enough and
united enough to sort out our roads’ tangle.
This is a long range program which will
need time and enthusiasm to see it through.
In the meantime you can help save lives by
driving carefully this Christmas.
I UAH'
vO' 6
>MO^
O*
XS&.
v^G
\V\V^
qP&
&
*CATERPIL.I.AR AND CAT ARE
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.A.
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. MELBOURNE,
» & > 'j, $
ENGINES
GRADERS • EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
xta
