

/
-m
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
BRILLIANT AUSTRALIAN STORIES
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3963
Wednesday, January 25, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
THE CHURCH OF
ST. MARY MAGDALENE,
TAUNTON
TAUNTON, the county town of Somerset,
stands in the fertile vale of Taunton
Deane, which is sheltered on three sides by
the Quantock, Blackdown and Brendon Hills.
It is one of the richest agricultural areas in
Britain, and Taunton is renowned as a tourist
centre from which to visit the beauties of
Somerset.
The town has an ancient and turbulent
history reaching back to Saxon times, when it
was founded by King Ina (688-726). In
Taunton Museum is preserved a charter in
Latin from King Ina, granting lands to the
Abbot of nearby Glastonbury in a.d. 705.
In 1497 Taunton was associated with Perkin
Warbeck, who tried to assume the crown of
England by claiming to be Richard, Duke of
York, who was believed to have been murdered
in the Tower of London. Seven-thousand men
rallied to the cause of Warbeck, but on the
approach of the Royalist forces, he fled to
Beaulieu, near Southampton, for sanctuary.
He was captured and brought before Henry VII
at Taunton, who sent him as a prisoner to
London, where he was later tried and executed
for high treason although no record of the
trial is known to exist.
During the Civil War Taunton was occupied
in turn by the Parliamentary and Royalist
forces. For almost a year in 1645 the town
sustained a long siege under Colonel (after-
wards Admiral) Robert Blake, against 10,000
Royalist troops, until relieved by Sir Thomas
Fairfax. As a result of the part it had played
in the Civil War, Charles II, at the Restoration,
deprived the town of its Charter of Incorpora-
tion, and much of the castle was destroyed.
Another lively episode in the town’s long
history was the enthusiastic welcome it gave to
the Duke of Monmouth during the ill-fated
rebellion. He arrived in the town from Lyme
Regis in June, 1685, and with his army con-
siderably reinforced he marched to Bridgewater,
Glastonbury, Wells and from there to Sedge-
moor, where, in July, 1685, he fought the battle
which ended in his defeat. Although Mon-
mouth escaped, he was later captured, dis-
guised as a shepherd, near Ringwood. King
James handed him over to the executioner and
a similar fate awaited many of his followers at
the trial held in the Great Hall of Taunton
Castle, and known as Judge Jeffreys’s “Bloody
Assizes.”
Taunton has two fine pre-Reformation
churches —the largest of which is the Church
of St. Mary Magdalene, illustrated here. Its
magnificent tower standing 163ft. in height was
rebuilt in 1862, The oldest part of the church
is the North Aisle, which dates back to the
Nth century. An unusual feature of the church
is its possession of four aisles, one of the few
of its kind in Britain.
No. 282: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
BOSWELL IN CORSICA
It can almost be taken as axiomatic
that the writers who most ardently
chase publicity are the shallow and
ephemeral, those who must make a
clamor in their own times for fear of
the silence of the centuries, and it is
odd indeed to see the immortal Boswell
in the latest volume of his journals
assiduously working-up publicity in the
English newspapers for his forthcoming
book on Corsica.
But what one keeps forgetting about
Boswell, as these fascinating journals
appear, is how young he was when he
wrote them. He is no more than 24
in this one, Boswell on the Grand Tour:
Italy, Corsica and France (Heine-
mann), awkward, always unsure of him-
self in spite of his posturings of con-
ceit and innate faith in his greatness,
with most of his big works still to be
written; for if in the “London Journal”
he had already composed one master-
piece, it was unpublished and unknown.
He may well have felt that the obscure
Mr. Boswell must make an immediate
flourish in the columns of the “London
Chronicle.”
At any rate these little puffs he
wrote for himself—imparting, as the
editors observe, quite a 20th-century
flavor to his book —make a most
diverting interlude. They appeared
anonymously in the “Chronicle”
purporting to come from its foreign
correspondents. First we have the
bare announcement that Corsica has
“now become an important object in
Europe.” Two days later the unknown
correspondent coyly introduces
Boswell: —
You have been amused with
reports of Britain’s sending an
embassy to the island of Corsica.
Your newspapers were once very
positive that the Duke of York
was determined to visit that island,
and of late we were assured of Mr.
Stanley’s being to go over. I can,
however, inform you for certain that
a British subject has actually been
there. About the middle of
October Mr. Boswell, a Scots gentle-
man . . .
News paragraphs follow thick and
fast: the brilliant remarks Mr. Bos-
well has made to Corsica’s General
Paoli (who, in the reproduction of a
portrait, looks rather like Mus-
solini); an item about the gun,
pair of pistols and hunting-dog General
Paoli was so kind as to present to Mr.
Boswell; the “remarkable anecdote”
that the real reason why Mr. Boswell
went to Corsica was to find a throne
for the young Chevalier Charles Stuart;
a note from Genoa, quite true as it
happens, on the dark suspicions which
the Genoese (then nominal overlords
of Corsica) entertained of “the Sieur
Boswell’s” mission; a denial that Mr.
Boswell was, in reality, “a desperate
adventurer whose real name was
M’Donald, and who had served during
the last war in North America”; and
finally the simple, pregnant announce-
ment (printed with some minor
inaccuracy four days after Boswell
returned to London): —
Saturday, 15 February. Yesterday
James Boswell, Esquire, arrived in
town from his travels.
In spite of this tempting preliminary
fanfare the Corsican journal, reprinted
in this volume, is not quite Boswell at
his best. In his finished and polished
style for publication at any rate —one
imagines that his first rough notes
might have been more intimate—he
had yet to learn to present his heroes
without hero-worship. He had yet to
develop that merciless eye for comic
and vitalising detail which he fixed on
Samuel Johnson. Paoli emerges from
his narrative as a kind of incarnation
of Rousseau’s Noble Savage, with a
touch of the Roman liberator; and,
however true this may have been in
essence, one misses the delicate
malicious realism of Fanny Burney’s
picture, which the editors thoughtfully
provide in a footnote. Boswell’s
first meeting with Paoli is all on the
heroic scale —“For ten minutes we
walked backwards and forwards
through the room hardly saying a word,
while he looked at me with a stead-
fast, keen and penetrating eye, as if
he searched my very soul.” Fanny
Burney’s account of this same incident,
which she got from Paoli several
years later, is very much more
human: —
“He came to my country and
fetched me some letters of recom-
mending him, but I was of the
belief he might be an impostor, and I
supposed in my minte he was an
espy; for I look away from, and
in a moment I look to him again
and I behold his tablets. Oh! he
was to the work of writing down all
I say! Indeed I was angry! But
soon I discover he was no impostor
and no espy, and I only find I was
myself the monster he had come to
discern.”
But if Boswell’s portrait of Paoli is
thus slightly too smooth and elevated
to be wholly convincing, he at least
gives a magnificent portrait of James
Boswell—which was at all times really
his chief concern; not merely in admira-
tion of himself but, like Pepys, in
wonder. Accepting in immense grati-
fication the role of secret envoy for the
British Government which both the
Corsicans and the Genoese foisted upon
him—and which had at least this much
substance, that William Pitt received
him (and refused to listen to him) when
he returned to England, while Lord
Holland was finally obliged to remark
“Really we cannot go to war becausd
Mr. Boswell has been in Corsica”—
Boswell was never more in his glory
than amongst these gullible and fero-
cious people who lionised him and in
whose country, apparently then
regarded by the English as the utter-
most end of the earth, he quite justifi-
ably regarded himself as the most
intrepid of explorers. There glitters
from the journal one unforgettable
picture of him:—
Every day I felt myself happier.
Particular marks of attention were
shown to me as a subject of Great
Britain, the report of which went
over to Italy and confirmed the
conjectures that I was really an
envoy. In the morning I had my
chocolate served up upon a silver
salver adorned with the arms of Cor-
sica. I dined and supped constantly
with the General. I was visited by
all the nobility, and whenever I chose
to make a little tour I was attended
by a party of guards. I begged the
General not to treat me with such
ceremony, but he insisted upon it.
One day when I rode out, I was
mounted on Paoli’s own horse with
rich furniture of crimson velvet,
with broad gold lace, and had my
guards marching along with me.
I allowed myself to indulge a
momentary pride in this parade, as
I was curious to experience what
could really be the pleasure of state
and distinction with which mankind
are so strangely intoxicated. When
I returned to the Continent after
all this greatness, I used to joke
with my acquaintances and tell them
I could not bear to live with them,
for they did not treat me with a
proper respect.
What a change that is from those
dismal days in Holland when,
struggling equally with the fogs, the
sodden earth, law, chastity, sobriety
and his constitutional melancholy,
Boswell was trying to please his
admirable father and to become a
good Scottish lawyer! Incidentally
(after trying to persuade him that he
was lingering in Siena —where he was
busy with love-affairs —because it was
the best place to study the pure Italian
language) Boswell secured his father’s
permission for the jaunt to Corsica by
the simple device of not telling him
about it.
The Corsican journal, as it is
printed here, will be familiar to many
readers, but it makes only a small sec-
tion of the volume and all the rest is
new. Ingeniously—if of necessity
rather scrappily—put together from
the raw material of Boswell’s travel-
diaries supplemented by letters, it is
the story of his wanderings in Italy,
with at all times the fullest revelation
of his vivid and eccentric personality:
how he thought he might allow himself
at least one love-affair in Italy, “in
order to increase my knowledge of the
world and give me a contempt for
shameless women,” and allowed him-
self innumerable; the fantastically
realistic propositions he wrote to titled
ladies and the wives of his Italian
friends, apparently in the belief that the
Italians had not only no morals but
no finesse, but perhaps basically be-
cause he liked writing outrageous
letters, to exercise his literary talent
and to see what would happen; his
consolations with streetwalkers when
he was rebuffed, and the repeatedly
disastrous consequences therefrom;
the sincere and lasting passion he in-
spired in at least one lady, the despair-
ing Moma, whose delectable letters
are printed in an appendix; the
cruelty he displayed to the hunt-
ing-dog he got from Paoli, a most
disgusting piece of reading until one
remembers in mitigation that other
men do not confess such aberrations;
his quarrels with his Swiss servant,
who constantly reproached him for his
familiarity and his meanness (Boswell
would not pay the doctor when Joseph
had fever in Rome); his rows
with innkeepers over the cost
of hiring horses; his comical
bickering with Lord Mountstuart and
his entourage, with whom he travelled
for some time; his affair with Rous-
seau’s mistress, Therese, to whom he
gallantly offered his protection from
Paris to London, and his subsequent
falling-out with the philosopher, who,
not unnaturally, seems to have sus-
pected something. Part of the
MSS. dealing with this episode was
burnt immediately before it came into
Colonel Isham’s hands, a crime for
which one must console oneself by the
reflection that it was probably unprint-
able anyhow.
In all, and summed up, it is another
captivating picture of the young Scots-
man of genius, continually in struggle
against his puritan and provincial
background, continually escaping to
the most extravagant delight, continu-
ally searching for stability and never,
whether in struggle or in gaiety, ceas-
ing to observe himself as the oddest
specimen of humanity he had known.
SOLEMNITY
This land I have loved indeed,
Yet have too little served,
Fastidious in her need,
Discordant, half-unnerved.
Now at forenoon I swear
Deeper complicity,
By emblems I found in her,
Things she has shown to me:
Witness the diamond blaze
Struck from dull forest leaves
By the sun’s cloudless rays;
Or heron-figured sleeves
Of water spread out wide,
When willow-lands lie brightened
After rain or flood-tide;
Or thicketed blue-wrens, frightened
Lest any looming shape
Should rob their nest; whose fill
Fourfold of beaks agape
Also attests my will.
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.
TO THE ART OF EDGAR DEGAS
Beachcomber on the shores of tears
Limeing the gestures of defeat—
Horses and whores and opera-stara—-
The lonely, lighted, various street
You sauntered through, oblique, perverse,
In your home territory a spy,
Accosted you and with a curse
You froze it with your Gorgon’s eye.
With what tense patience you refine
The everyness of everyday
And with sweet color and a line
Make mysteries of flaccid clay!
By what strange enterprise you live!
Edgy, insatiably alone,
You choose your tenderness to give
To showgirls whom you turn to stone—
But stone that moves, tired stone that
leans
To ease involuntarily the toe
Of ballet-girls like watering-cans
(Those arguers at the bar) as though
In their brief pause you found relief
From posed dilemmas of the mind
Your grudging aristocratic grief,
The wildcat cares of going blind.
Well, walk your evening streets and look
Each last eleven at the show:
The darkening pleasures you forsook
Look back like burning windows now.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
73 Bush Songs
Colonial Ballads, edited by Hugh
Anderson with illustrations by Ronald
G. Edwards (The Ram’s Skull
Press, Femtree Gully), contains 73 old
bush songs, with music—some quarter,
at a rough estimate, of those that are
now held in various collections—but
the editor makes no claim that it is
in any sense complete. It is, however,
nearly as representative as most
people could wish, and in these days
when the publication of musical scores
is inordinately expensive, 73 songs are
no mean offering.
The book is arranged in two sections:
Part I contains “Street Ballads and
Goldfield Songs”; Part II is called “The
Songs They Used to Sing.” Within
each of the sections the songs are
presented as illustrations to an
explanatory essay. To some extent
the Part I essay is the more interesting
and original, for Mr. Anderson has
done a great deal of research on gold-
fields songs in general, and the work
and life of that extraordinary itinerant
minstrel, Charles Thatcher, in par-
ticular, and has discovered some of
Thatcher’s works which are not
included in his many songbooks, and
which are printed here. As an example
of Thatcher’s racy observation, here
is “Bendigo Mac,” a famous magistrate
of his day, to a prisoner:—
Hullo you rascal once more in my
hands.
Neal turn him round and examine
his brands.
You’re from the Derwent and come
here to thieve
So now fork out your ticket of leave.
Silence you scoundrel, not a word
shall you speak,
Take him away and produce him
next week.
In Part II representative songs deal-
ing with most aspects of bush life-
shearing, squatting, swagging, bush-
ranging, etc. —are given, most being
old favorites and many coming from
Paterson’s collection. Frequently the
selection of a particular song is deter-
mined by some point of interest arising
out of its music. An example of Mr.
Anderson’s treatment of the develop-
ment of a song is “Sam Holt”—the
-Paterson version, by the way, was
written by G. H. (“Ironbark”)
Gibson. Mr. Anderson traces its
progress from a German air popu-
lar in an English arrangement as
“Ben Bolt” through its use by Thatcher
for two parodies and, finally, to the
version printed anonymously by Pater-
son. Here it should be reiterated that
Mr. Anderson’s musical sleuthing and
his success in tracing old tunes hitherto
known only by their titles is one of the
most successful and enjoyable aspects
of his work.
While one can hardly agree with Mr.
Anderson that the words of the old bush
songs —they have an earthy vitality of
their own —are valueless without the
music, it must of course be admitted
that the music has an equal charm and
importance, both for its own sake and
for its possible future use in the
development of opera in this country.
One defect will worry serious
students rather than those who buy this
book for pure enjoyment, and this is
the frequent lack of detailed informa-
tion about sources, which is all the
more surprising when so much of the
contents is so well and fully docu-
mented —there is nothing to indicate,
for instance, that “The Flash Colonial
{Continued on page 35)


0
fry
U'vvA \ I
MblCm Ypk
<? °°o
a oo
?-r
ft
2^
S 3
r
J 4
©Z
Z
V
m&i-mm
HH
2BANK\
4
-Zl
,#>
»»
s.e
nsn
SiM
©
111
•.
©
m
wmm
■^>-
m
mm
fit?
■
m
«i
V
ll
z
o
Csk;
i
A
z
0*
• ttfl
ML-
£
r^
V
«u_
We open for breakfast at half-past eight,
Sq there’s no earthly reason for shopping late.
We’ll make up your prescription if you’re indisposed,
We’ll re-block your hat and alter your clothes.
We have a place where you can write to your friends,
We’ll even give you the paper and pens.
You cap put your savings in our Commonwealth Bank,
And post your letter to Uncle Frank.
We'll repair almost anything there is to repair,
We’ll permanently wave milady s hair.
We’ll deliver your purchases the very next day,
We’ve thirteen retiring rooms where you don’t have to pay.
We’ve twenty ’phones throughout the store,
Where you can call hubby in Melbourne or the lady next door.
When mothers come in with babies small,
We give them a room for feeding, and all.
We’ve seven rest lounges above the noise of the street,
And a chiropodist, too, for soothing your feet.
We’ll repair your jewellery and mend your watch,
We’ll call you a taxi if you’re in a great rush.
We’ll mind your parcels for threepence a day.
We’ll teach you to garden in just the right way.
We’ll show you power tools for repairing your house,
We’ll give you advice on gifts for your spouse.
We’ve a catering service to help with your party,
We’ll dry-clean your clothes and return them quite smartly.
Our Telephone Service all day never stops,
Dial 80951 and ask for “TOPS”.
A
'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING


The Bulletin
Vol 77—No. 3963
Wednesday, January 25, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE WAY AHEAD
IT has been said of landscape-painting that one
should be able to walk into a picture and out of it.
Whatever the present year holds in the way of
economic disturbances and difficulty, in presenting
to the public any plans for dealing with the
emergency the Federal Government should not only
be sure that it can walk the people up to the
problem; it should be able to show that a common-
sense and industrious people can work their way
out of it, and be a great deal better off afterwards.
Naturally, in dealing with large-scale problems
of any kind, it is reasonable enough to deal with
first things first. But it is not a good thing to lack
an overall policy. You must know where you are
going, or, at least, where you are trying to go. You
must be able to answer the question, “Where does
it get you in the end?”
In Canberra, where many plans are made, the
official outlook appears to be tinctured by
departmental expediency. Sometimes, too, bankers
think a little too closely in terms of money and
banking. And politicians inevitably think in terms
of politics as well as economics. Some politicians
think solely in terms of politics.
In dealing with Australia’s problems during
1956 and ensuing years any remedies applied wifi
have to be farsighted and far-reaching enough to
get right down to the roots of the difficulty. That
is because what is wrong with Australia is funda-
mental, even if simple. We are not working sen-
sibly and diligently enough, principally because of
a political philosophy that has served its purpose
and has now run to seed. The A.L.P. tradition of
working less and less each week has been so
“successful” politically that it has gone insane
industrially.
The whole nation needs a well-informed pep-
talk. But whatever measures are proposed in order
to deal with the crisis which has arisen in our bal-
ance of overseas payments, none will be of any real
value unless it succeeds in increasing the all-in
productivity of Australia, and also the productivity
from each employed person.
Not only maintenance of our living-standards
depends on increased production of the right kind;
also dependent are maintenance of our elaborate
social-security system and the expansion of public
and private works to meet the needs of a growing
population.
Today nearly all our material wellbeing de-
pends on the material production from those in
jobs. There are very few windfalls in the shape of
gold-discoveries and the like to swell the national
income from comparatively little effort. The high
price of wool for several years past was in the
nature of such a windfall, but it, too, has now
subsided.
But in increasing production, one thing which
the present Federal Government must set itself out
to do is to assure every wage- and salary-earner
that if he does work harder and more diligently
there is some real future in it both for himself and
the rest of the community. This may be difficult
to do in the face of propaganda from the Left and
from really disgraceful and irresponsible self-seek-
ing politicians of the Evatt variety; but it is a
commonsense and attractive true story, with plenty
of real inspiration in it if put to the people in the
right way.
Once the nation is doing, simply, a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay, there are prospects of
really extraordinaiy prosperity ahead of the
Commonwealth. That is the essence of this real-
life story.
Much remains to be done before our material,
manpower and credit resources can be employed to
the most fruitful advantage. The great need is to
get costs down and at the same time lift man-hour
output further.
This is not the responsibility of trade-unionists
alone. Managements must do their share, and must
try to understand the fundamentals of their own
problems and of the national problem. It doesn’t
follow that hard work at the wrong type of pro-
duction will have an assured future in it. There
will always be the need to survey the market with
a good economic telescope. And where over-
production occurs in one type of industry, there
must be a switch of resources to the industry in
which manpower is needed more.
It is necessary to consider what production will
be needed for home consumption, what for capital
works and services, and what for export. The
export aspect is important because it looks after
the cost of imports; many types of imports are
necessary if we are to develop this country in the
way we want to. And successful development
breeds more development.
Once a satisfactory and regular rate of produc-
tion is achieved, with the surplus of savings directed
into the right sort of reproductive capital works,
there will be no need to maintain financial inhibi-
tions like import-rationing and credit-restriction.
When a fair thing in the rate of man-hour pro-
duction is in sight it would be sound financial policy
to extend credit for the building of essential capital
works that will pay for themselves or for which
the public is prepared to pay ultimately in taxation.
There is a time and place for credit-creation, and
the time is during a period when manpower is
available to produce goods economically in re-
sponse to a legitimate present demand or in antici-
pation of a well-judged future development. In
fact, abundant production of the right kind of itself
creates abundant credit.
With public works, the essential thing is that
they should help production of all kinds of goods
and services to flow more easily. It is no use starting
public works simply for the sake of spending money.
In N.S.W. a great splurge of expenditure on public
works was made by the State “Labor” Government
in 1950-51, but these were never finished. They
became as useless a burden as a lot of unpaid-for
foundation-stones.
There is no question but that today Australia
is in urgent need of more and better public and
private works. The entire transport-system of the
Commonwealth needs overhauling. The housing
situation is still one in which there is a scarcity of
homes, especially on a rental basis. Tens of
thousands of homes need building. The cities have
been crumbling, structurally, for the past 20 years.
Local-government undertakings are away behind
in their commitments for essential services, and
plans for vital arterial roads have been shelved for
years because of lack of resources. The Cumber-
land Planning Scheme in Sydney is nothing more
than a tangle of red-tape and frustration. "It has
so far achieved nothing whatever but discredit
and suspicion, though it has been in legal force for
several years.
Clearly, there is an enormous amount of work
ahead of all Australians willing and able to work
on the basis of a fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay. But there is no time for humbug. During the
depression of the 1930’s the clamor was for the
right to work. Unfortunately, today, the emphasis
is on the right to receive a pay-envelope regularly,
and social-security in one’s old age, with the less
said about work the better while the union rep. is
around. It is Labor’s job to alter that attitude
towards one more rational, national and healthy.
If Australia is able to reduce its production-
costs substantially, homes will be cheaper and more
plentiful, public works will become more prolific,
our export-trades will flourish, and the economy
will go forward with zest and confidence. As “The
Bulletin” has insisted before, working as a rational
and willing community, and with costs on a lower
scale, we will have little difficulty in finding finance,
either from our own resources or abroad, for any-
thing we undertake that is within our physical and
industrial powers to complete.
Thrifty, industrious people have few economic
problems that don’t virtually solve themselves. In
an Australia in which costs were brought down
substantially and our resources applied intelligently
there would be unlimited opportunities for profit-
able employment. Economic restriction and regu-
lation are necessary only so long as production
is inadequate and costly.
A Job For Giants
THE new Federal Cabinet is in the saddle at Can-
berra and working. There is plenty of toil ahead
of it and not overmuch time before the new Parlia-
ment comes into full being with the induction of
the new Senate on July 1.
Before that date it is proposed to hold two
meetings of Parliament, one in February, which
will continue till the fourth week in March, the
other opening in April and continuing into June.
The urgent problems for these meetings is to
provide a continuance of conditions under which
the Government will be able to cany out the
overwhelming mandate which it has received from
the electorates. It is proposed, if press reports
can be believed, to appoint an all-party committee
to consider the Senate relationship with the Lower
House; and it can be taken for granted from the
first that this will be a waste of time so far
as any proposals making it possible for the Govern-
ment to overcome deadlocks are concerned.
The one objective of the official “Labor” party
is, and will always be under the present leader-
ship, to wreck any Government which it does not
control.
The only bright spot in the situation is that
the control of the Senate will rest after June
in the hands not of “Labor,” but of its bitter
enemies the Anti-Communists.
Any measure of reform of the Senate which
merely provides for the remission of legislation in
case of deadlock to joint meetings of the two
Houses will scarcely solve the problems which
have plagued two-House Parliamentary government
ever since Federation—indeed, all Parliamentary
government since the establishment of the colonies
a century ago. And other potential changes are
beset with difficulties concerned with State rights.
Even a double-dissolution under a new electoral
system which would restore preferential voting in
the Senate would prove only a temporary palliative
and lead to a return to an old system which
produced absurdities nearly as bad.
The position seems to be that no reforms in
the Senate can be effective and permanent un-
less they are Constitutional and drastic and unless
existing representation is graded according to popu-
lation in the various States. A system is absurd under
which a Government can win a sweeping majority
on a regional electoral vote in the Lower House
and find itself beholden for carrying vital legisla-
tion on the will of a couple of Senators whose
existence depends on a splinter-vote created by an
internal party-feud within an A.L.P. which is
seething with quarrels and dissension.
A scheme under which Tasmania has a Senator
to every 16,700 of population, W.A. one to every
32,500 and N.S.W. one to every 190,000 is absurd
apart from being inequitable in what is as much a
party House as the House of Representatives.
It is becoming more and more clear that for all
the use it is to anybody except obstructionists the
Senate might just as well cease to exist. It does not
observe the tenets which brought about its creation.
It does not act as a guardian of State rights. It is
merely a home for aged trade-union secretaries and
“Labor” hangers-on and for politicians without the
drive to force themselves into that part of Parlia-
ment where policies are made and given form.
Nobody, however, would envy the Govern-
ment the task of reforming it as a revisory Chamber;
for it is impossible to think of it as such a body un-
less it is free of organised political division and
free of instruction by caucuses external to it. At
present, its policy is decided for it in party
meetings dominated by the more numerous over-
all membership of the Lower Chamber.
Reform can only be achieved on useful lines
by the introduction of skill, experience and sectiona)
representation on a non-political basis into the
picture, a change of direction which would also
involve the modification of the Federal conception
of the Commonwealth. However, it is a job which
needs tackling urgently and thoroughly, and it
would be better tackled by some tribunal wider in
scope than would be provided by an all-party
Parliamentary committee.
Apart from the Senate problem, which is an
imminent one, the Government is faced with that
of carrying-out its programme of balancing over-
seas trade, which involves the expansion of exports
and the bringing of costs into better ratio to world
prices. This is profoundly difficult. The Govern-
ment is faced firstly by State Governments which
for purposes of political bribery are deliberately
inflating the basic wage on the basis of rises in
the cost-of-living and according to a method which
some of them (especially Mr. Cahill) a few short
years ago were most eager to declare outmoded.
The basic wage under this absurd system has in
Sydney risen from £lO 16s. in February, 1952, to
£l2 15s. for the coming month. Millions are being
piled on to the cost of government every year by
the rises, while the prices of our staple goods, wool
in particular, have declined disturbingly and to
such a degree that the industrial courts have begun
to reduce shearers’ wages. Less work is being done
for the basic day’s pay than three years ago. And
added to this the Government is faced with the
problem of a Communist party which still has con-
trol of key transport and construction unions and
which is determined if possible to smash the whole
social system in the interests of a foreign Power.
The difficulties which arise from this factor
are enormous in view of the close alliance of policy
and action between the official “Labor” party, led
by Dr. Evatt and dominated by the A.WJJ., whose
power is being used to the full to keep him in
office, and the Communists, who have consistently
formed a united front in recent elections to defeat
the supporters of pure Australianism.
With the danger of war increasing every month,
with internal industrial war declared by the wharf-
laborers, with costs rising, with a Senate coming in
which can thwart and delay its measures, the
Government has a job for giants ahead.
This is not made easier by the kind of press it
has to contend with in most States, a press which
takes more interest in sex crimes and gambling than
in the welfare of the country, and whose staffs are
sprinkled with sympathisers with Communism and
with “Labor” opponents.


WHO’LL HAVE HIM ON?


PLAIN ENGLISH
To Govern—or Not
The essential fact about the wharf-strike,
which has been carefully and determin-
edly organised by the Communist
leaders of the Waterside Workers’ Fede-
ration, is that it is a defiance of the law:
an attempt by a group to take the gov-
ernment of the country out of the hands
of the proper authorities and the
administration of the law out of the
hands of the courts. This group arrogates
to itself the right to say what the law
shall be in respect of its own members
whenever it likes.
It is prepared to make and enforce con-
tracts under the law with employers —
so long as those contracts favor itself
and its members. It is prepared to obey
the law when it suits the wharfies, but
not otherwise. And it is aided and abetted
in this by a large number of supporting
unions and helped along by the A.C.T.U.
The leadership of the union which is
doing this is Communist. Its secretary,
Mr. Healy, is a member of the Commun-
ist-party Central Committee and Polit-
Bureau. It is true that his admirers
obtain space in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” to hold him up as a patriotic
British soldier who served his country at
a tender age, one who is first of all Aus-
tralian in his patriotism. But the admirers
who do this in newspaper and pamphlet,
while they give him the reference that he
was the only trade-union leader ever sum-
moned to the War Cabinet by the
“Labor” Government of war-time days,
fail to pinpoint him as the same Comrade
Healy who used to stand up in the Sydney
Domain during 1940 beseeching Austra-
lians not to enlist in the A.I.F. because
they might have to fight his beloved
Russia.
Nobody who glamorises Mr. Healy and
his followers has ever taken the trouble
to point out that they cannot be two
things at once—loyal to Australia and
members of the Communist Central
Committee, which was proved during the
Petrov Commission to have received
finance from Moscow.
The wharf-strike in Australia is no
more a local effort entirely than the
tramway and bus disturbances last year
which paralleled similar disturbances in
the U.K. and the United {States, jt is part
of a world-wide Communist attempt to
disrupt transport in those countries which
form the staple of the civilised world’s
defence against Communism. There is in
progress at the present time everywhere a
deliberate Communist attempt to hamper
world trade, and to destroy the mar-
kets of the English-speaking countries,
to the advantage of Russia and of Euro-
pean Continental countries.
Every possible effort is being made to
force-up wages and costs and to disrupt
industry in the English-speaking world.
And it is being very largely successful.
Freight-rates are being forced up, time is
being lost on the wharves, and defence
projects are being delayed by wilfully
planned strikes under the auspices of
Communist-led unions.
A specimen of where the present
trends are leading: The slow turn-round
of ships, which it is the aim of the dis-
rupters to secure, results in a serious dif-
ferentiation in freight-rates on cargoes to
British Commonwealth ports as compared
with those destined for European Con-
tinental ports. An example was given in
the British press the other day. Ger-
many got 15 ships to carry wheat from
the Argentine at 1255. a ton. British
merchants, however, are unable to get
tonnage for a similar purpose at a rate
below 1425. 6d.
In Australia, trade is being killed by
dislocation and the constant assumption
of the Communist wharf-leaders that
they govern the industry in the ultimate
and that they have every right, including
the right to strike or go slow. They
are making impudent war on the com-
munity, on the courts and the Govern-
ment. And it is up to the Government
to meet them with firmness and deal with
them to the limit the law allows.
The Tinder-box World
Eden’s speech at Bradford didn’t give
anybody much to bite on to or hold on to.
It held nothing particularly inspiring or
even positive for home consumption.
Which is a pity, because the British
people seem to be asking for something
incisive at this hour.
Sir Anthony admits that the contest
between the Western Powers and the
Communists has changed its character in
the past few months —and not for the
better. And he admits, too, that there is
“plenty of dry tinder about,” and that a
universal explosion could be touched off
any time. He warns somebody unspecified
that Governments should be “wary about
trying to undermine long-established
friendships between others lest they
embroil themselves in graver perils.”
Yet he seems to infer that the implica-
tions of the use of nuclear fission are so
awful that no country will risk the
employment of atomic weapons against
itself. He says “it becomes increasingly
unlikely that any country possessing the
hydrogen-bomb will deliberately use it
against a rival Power which owns it also.”.
He attacked the Bulganin-Khrushchev
mission without specifically mentioning
names, and said that, so far from the
United Kingdom trampling on the necks
of colonial peoples, the “address of the
Power which dragoons and dominates its
satellites is the Kremlin.” And he made
it clear that there would be no reduction
in defence-spending which would
endanger national survival or Britain’s
authority in world affairs.
Nevertheless there was no bite in the
speech, which was interrupted by accusa-
tions from members of the audience that
his Government was engaged in “giving
the Empire away,” and received by the
press and public opinion with mixed
feelings. It caused none of the upsurge
of support which might have been
expected for a leader in a time of crisis,
and which several times marked the career
of Mr. Churchill.
The politics of the Western world are
in a peculiar state. With President
Eisenhower ill and conserving his
energies, Mr. Dulles appears to have been
behaving like a vehicle without a brake,
supplying the Russians with just the kind
of pabulum which they need to distort
into an accusation that the United States
is bent on aggression. His pose as what
the London “Times” calls “the iron man
who walked three times to the brink and
looked atomic war in the face” seems to
please him.
There is some doubt about the authen-
ticity of the “brink” talk. But he
appears to have stood by a statement
allegedly made to U.S. “Life” that
if negotiations over Indo-China had
broken down Britain and the U.S. were
willing to go ahead with military opera-
tions against South China, with
“appropriate weapons.” And he blamed
Britain and France, apparently, for having
given him untold trouble over Indo-China
at Geneva, whereas all that Eden holds to
have happened is that the British Govern-
ment was at the time prepared to discuss
the possibility of a collective defence-
system, but evidently had not agreed to
any definite plan for united action.
The position as outlined by Mr.
Acheson a few days ago in Washington
seems to be true in many respects —the
United States has lost the initiative in the
cold-war, and is drifting away from its
Western allies. Strength is ebbing out
of, rather than into, the veins of Western
Europe, with France bleeding to death
through the wounds caused by its dis-
sensions. Britain and France are on terms
which are now only “distant and formal.”
There is no voice speaking for the West as
a whole. The hand of Russia sowing
cancer and hate is to be seen everywhere.
It is an ominous position, with the
world a tinder-box, and the initiative
entirely with the Kremlin for the
moment. Next month the Communist
campaign will blaze afresh with the party
conference in Moscow.
Meeting Our Neighbors
“In the ACT”: Before the Prime
Minister goes to London next June
(undoubtedly chewing-over the ideas for
a British Commonwealth task on the lines
lately mentioned in The Bulletin), he
should take steps to acquaint himself with
some of the more urgent problems of
Asia.
He already has first-hand knowledge
of India, Pakistan and Ceylon, and is in
close touch with the leaders of those
fellow-members of the Commonwealth.
It would be a great advantage if he
supplemented this contact by paying his
promised official visit to Indonesia, and
by visiting Japan and perhaps the Philip-
pines before going on to London. An
Indonesian visit would give him an insight
into the political movements among the
80-million of this near-by neighbor, and
if he went on to Japan, Mr. Menzies
could observe trends there, and of the
great opportunities for expanded trade
now offering.
No Australian Government can ignore
the fact that Japan is now our second-
best customer, ranking only behind Britain
in the quantity of goods bought from us.
This fact has important political and
industrial aspects, as well as a bearing on
the broader outlines of foreign policy.
The commercial situation of Japan is one
which Australia should study and
appreciate, in common with the rest of
the world. The expanding population of
the Nipponese islands, the restricted world
markets, the increasing needs of the
Japanese for goods and international
currency, all pose problems which should
properly be observed and assessed at
first-hand. Menzies could make a valu-
able contribution to Australia’s judgment
on> them if he went to Tokyo on his way
to London.
It is anomalous that in a period when
Australia is declaring its profound and
increasing interest in Asian affairs so little
information on them is furnished by the
Government to the Parliament and the
people. If Government agencies are, in
fact, obtaining an insight into Asian minds
and Asian plans, surely Australians should
learn something of the results in return
for the heavy and mounting expenditures
on embassies, legations and public rela-
tions in these areas.
Are we really having an impact on
Asia? If so, what is it? Should we
spend more, or less, and should our expen-
diture be on different lines and in
different quarters? Few Australians know
enough about these matters to pose intel-
ligent questions on them, and fewer still
can guess at the right answers. It would
be helpful if Menzies made it his business
to find out, and to take the information
to London before bringing it to Canberra.
If he is to play the part on the world
stage which is now being discussed
informally in several international capitals,
he must be armed with all the information
available, and he must have all possible
personal contacts with world leaders.
This coming journey to London offers
the possibility of enlarged horizons.
Vandalism in Melbourne
“M.G.S.”: There is much speculation
in Melbourne as to the motive for the
most fantastic case of vandalism and
desecration in the city’s history.
Churches have been desecrated on
occasion and graveyards violated, and
a young religious fanatic once slashed
the naked body of the celebrated Chloe
at Youj&g and Jackson’s, but nothing like
the Museum episode has previously
happened.
Psychologists would no doubt class
the Chloe incident as a negative expres-
sion of the sexual impulse. In the
present case, however, it is difficult to dis-
cover why some unidentified person,
with a knowledge of zoology, anatomy
and the geography of the National
Museum, got into the building, took
the lift to the top floor, 'climbed
through a manhole to disconnect the
fuses, then smashed through a window
to the roof, whence he could climb
down by ladder into the, taxidermists’
section and there smash-up the skeleton
of that sacred animal Carbine, bash
dozens of plate-glass cases and their
priceless contents, using for a hammer
the rare skulls of sea-elephants from
the Antarctic, fearsomely disfigure
stuffed birds and mammals being pre-
pared for exhibition, smash dozens of
glass skylights, and finally cut the throat
of a live sft. goanna, at the same time
releasing a 6ft. Queensland python.
As the Museum and the National
Gallery open into one another, it
was fortunate the frenzied individual
didn’t extend his rampage to include the
pictures, where he could have done an
extraordinary amount of damage. From
its wall the Rembrandt self-portrait
looks gravely across at the stuffed hide
of Phar Lap, and he could easily have
had a go at that. He could have vented
his fury as well on the Titian, the Tin-
toretto, the El Greco and the Tiepolo,
which, however, has already been sadly
damaged by the well-intentioned x who
recently cleaned Tiepolo’s genius off the
canvas in London.
As it is, the vandal did thousands
of pounds’ worth of damage, and the
question is, Why did he do it? Nothing
was stolen. Director Pescott thinks he
had a grudge against the National
Museum. What sort of a grudge?
There’s no evidence that anybody has
been sacked or that there were other
grounds for jealousy of the museum’s
employees.
It is difficult to feel jealous of the dead,
and the exhibits in the museum are
very, very dead. The occupants' of the
gallery adjacent—that is, the pictures —
are for the most part very, very living,
except for some recent acquisitions.
The most charitable interpretation that
could be given this fanatic outburst is
that somebody resented the juxtaposition
of the living and the dead and took it
out on the dead. He might even have
been an artist, probably himself unsuc-
cessful, who resented the fact that, for
one person who pauses to look at the
Rembrandt, a hundred pass on to gaze
reverentially at Phar Lap. A lot of
people like myself have felt an awful
feeling of depression in passing from the
Gallery into the Museum and have
wondered why the authorities have per-
mitted the ridiculous arrangement for so
long, though our feeling wasn’t strong
enough for us to do anything about it.
If the authorities want to ensure
against a repetition, the best thing they
could do would be to shift the stuffed
animals and reptiles up to the Univer-
sity. Things up there are pretty dead
already and that is the proper place for
science.
The vacated space could then be used
to display some of the hundreds of works
of art, notably the Greek Aphrodite,
languishing in the cellars.
"Most Enviable"
“Ek Dum” : The end of this month
marks the centenary of the establishment
of the world’s most famous decoration,
the Victoria Cross. It is the custom of
the press at intervals to refer to foreign
decorations as the German or American
equivalent of the V.C. But they are
nothing of the kind. The V.C. is unique;
it is the only thing of its kind awarded for
sheer valor under conditions so strict that
there can be no mistake about the matter.
It was not always of its present high
repute. Founded by royal warrant at
the end of January, 1856, it had its ups
and downs. Nobody was very enthus-
iastic about it at first —it was in advance
of its times, especially since it applied to
all ranks and there were those
who didn’t agree with her Majesty that
it should be “highly prized and eagerly
sought after by officers and men of our
naval and military services.” The
design came out of the head of the
Prince Consort, and the Queen preferred
the “For Valour” inscription to the sug-
gestion of Lord Panmure (afterwards
Earl of Dalhousie), “For the Brave.”
Originally, the decoration, with its little
bronze cross made, from the metal of
guns taken at Sevastopol in the Crimea,
by Messrs. Hancock, a firm of London
jewellers who are still the makers, was
given somewhat indiscriminately.
The first decoration-parade was held in
Hyde Park on June 26, 1857, when 62
officers and men of the two services
received their medals and ribbons —the
naval ribbon was blue until 1918. The
first winner was a member of the senior
service—Lieutenant C. D. Lucas, R.N.,
who had shown great bravery in action in
the Baltic on June 21, 1854. The first
four soldiers were a lieutenant-colonel
and a sergeant of the Royal Welch Fusi-
liers and a sergeant and a private of the
Scots Fusilier Guards, for bravery at
Alma, the first major battle of the war.
In 1857 there were numerous awards,
mainly to officers, in the Indian Mutiny,
and from the citations many of the deeds
which won them wouldn’t today have
rated a Military Medal or M.1.D., if
that.
In 1858 the first change was made in
the statutes of the decoration when
awards for bravery outside action were
authorised. About half-a-dozen awards
of this type were made, including one to
Timothy O’Hea, of the Rifle Brigade,
whose V.C. became a matter of consid-
erable inkspilling in Australia at a later
date —he earned his cross by showing
courage in helping to deal with a fire in
an ammunition-train at Quebec in 1866.
If an award were to be given for a similar
deed in present times it would be the
George Cross.
The Indian Mutiny led to the exten-
sion to volunteer civilian soldiers of the
privilege of wearing the cross, and in
1867 there was a special issue for N.Z.
local forces engaged against the Maoris.
It was not till 1902 that the decoration
could be given posthumously; and not
till 1911 that it began to come the way
of native Indians.
There have been several tightening-ups
of the regulations, due to the changing
nature and increasing magnitude and
scope of battle. In 1902 the qualifica-
tion became “conspicuous bravery and
devotion to the country in the presence
of the enemy.” A further general re-
vision of the warrant and rules in 1920
decreed that the award should be made
in future solely for “most conspicuous
bravery or some daring or pre-eminent
act of valor or self-sacrifice or extreme
devotion to duty in the presence of the
enemy.” Its ambit was extended
to include all ranks, colors and
creeds of both sexes in all services,
including the nursing service, and all
o Continued on next page )


civilians when serving with the armed
forces of the British Empire. The first
airman to win a V.C. was Lieutenant
Rhodes Moorhouse on April 26, 1915.
Every holder is entitled to be saluted
by all ranks and to have guards turned
out for him. He has a pension of £lO
a year, with £5 for each bar and some
other financial benefits.
All sorts and sizes of Britons, Aus-
tralians and Indians, Canadians, S.
Africans and New Zealanders have won
the V.C. The British Cabinet has had
more than one member. It has one now in
Lord De L’lsle and Dudley. The Aus-
tralian Cabinet also boasted one —Sir
Neville Howse. Lt.-Col. Charles Ander-
son, V.C., was elected for Hume at the
last Federal elections. Field-Marshals
a-many have held the cross —Lord
Roberts, whose son was also decorated
posthumously, and Lord Gort among
them. Very few V.C.s have, however,
been really successful generals. The
majority of the 1347 (including three
bars) who have won the cross have been
humble men. Of the total, 522
had been given before World War I, 633
during World War I (including 187 post-
humously), and in World War II 189,
including 83 posthumously.
Australia has had its full share, and,
after a glorious record in South Africa,
won its first cross in World War I on
Gallipoli. It has two survivors from
S. Africa. One is Colonel Guy Wylly,
who lives in London, a Tasmanian
Imperial Bushman who served afterwards
with the Ist and 3rd Divisions on Galli-
poli and finally joined the Corps of
Guides in India. The other, Lieutenant
James Rogers, of Kew (Vic.), was a
Victorian Bushman. From World War 1
33 survive and from World War II nine.
All orders have their royal descrip-
tions —“most noble,” “most distin-
guished,” “most excellent.” A Prince of
Wales once described the V-C- as “the
i most enviable.”
POLITICAL POINTS
On January 23, at midnight, 27,000
wharflaborers in 53 Australian ports
went on strike at the behest of Com-
munist leaders, who care only for the dis-
ruption of the Australian system in the
interests of the Kremlin. The strike
leaves 133 ships held-up in ports and
means a loss, of tens of thousands of
pounds a day to workers in no way con-
cerned. In Queensland 20,000 on the
same day were being thrown out of
work by a regulation strike in the electri-
cal industry at the behest of another
Leftist union.
• •
A.C.T.U. president Monk on the
strike: “It will be no tea-party.” Not
unless it’s a C-party tea-party, that is.,
• •
The A.W.U., part of the new United
Front with Communism, is planning
stopworks on all shearing-sheds be-
cause the Queensland Industrial Court
has reduced wages in accordance with
the union’s own principles. At St. Mary’s
munition factory (N.S.W.) there was a
sudden strike involving 1200 men
against the sacking of an alleged incom-
petent. It seems that the Red unions
are busily working to lose the right to
strike. They can’t have it both ways . . .
the right to the protection of industrial
laws, and the right to bulldoze justice
and ignore the law and public interest
when it suits them.
The final figures for the Common- :
wealth elections showed that 4,382,000
voted for the House of Reps. —several
seats were not contested —and 4,914,000
for the Senate. The Senate vote
included 473,000 informals, a fine pointer
to the quality of our State education
systems —or perhaps to the effects of
compulsory-voting. In Victoria 184,229
informal votes were cast in a total of
1,365,000 Senate votes —13.5 per cent.
• •
The votes for both Houses measured
the debt of gratitude which the A.L.P.
owes to Dr. Evatt for alienating anti-
communists of his party. Their vote
represented an overall 6.1 per cent in
the Senate vote and 5.2 per cent in the
Reps. In the Senate it meant the differ-
ence between control and no-control of
the House. “Labor’s” official poll of
40.6 per cent, for the Senate was the
lowest on record.
• •
Some of the N.S.W. bhoys are sheahan
double; others are sheahan red.
• •
Federal Cabinet, at its first meeting in
Canberra last week, didn’t get around to
the long-deferred amendments of the
banking legislation, including considera-
tion of the separation of the central bank
and its administration and funds, from
the Commonwealth Trading Bank and
savings-bank. The form of authority for
private savings-banks was decided, how-
ever, and there was some discussion on
the suggestion that N.S.W. might once
more set-up a State savings-bank, if the
hurdle presented by the State’s agreement
with the Commonwealth on the subject
could be overcome.
• • "
Breaking their post-election silence (an
understandably prolonged one), the two
“leaders’" of the official “Labor” party
made public comments on the new
Menzies Ministry. “It won’t work,” said
Evatt. “The old guard is back,” said
Calwell. Croak, croak, croak!
i» •
“In the ACT”: The new Parliament
will have a busy half-year, a state of
affairs not unexpected by the Canberra
pundits who’d studied the Senate position.
After meeting on February 15, Parlia-
ment will sit until about March 23, when
it will have an Easter break of four or
five weeks, which is somewhat more than
that enjoyed by the average citizen. It
will then resume, and sittings are expected
to last into June, with the Prime Ministetr
absent during the latter period of the
session on his way to London. Before
his return the new Senate will be
ensconced, and Senators Cole and
McManus will be the subjects of attention
from the press gallery as well as from
the benches on both sides of the Chamber.
• •
So the Loan Council will meet, to
discuss the allocations to the States and
the extent to which, if any, the Common-
wealth will make up leeways, but there’ll
be no Premiers’ conference for the pub-
licising of grievances and the display of
newly-polished old complaints. Before
that happens the Treasury should issue the
first of its series of quarterly economic
WHO'LL GIVE WAY?
reviews, promised by the P.M. during the :
get-together discussions last September.
• •
While “Vic.” Johnson was a Minister
in the Curtin and Chiflev Administrations
the A.W.U. had a solid, if not inspired, -
representative on the front-bench and in
caucus. He still represents Kalgoorlie in
the House of Reps., but it seems that he
has lost his influence with his union,
which is now asserting through its
Federal president that it will “back Dr.
Evatt’s Federal Labor-party leadership to
the full.” It will be recalled that m
caucus something over a year ago
Johnson told Evatt to his face that he
“wasn’t a leader’s bootlace,” an out-
spoken remark that was cheered inwardly
by many who didn’t dare to applaud it
openly at the time. When caucus meets
again, just before Parliament assembles,
Johnson may ignore his union’s views to
have another shot at the leader. If he
doesn’t, surely someone else will.
• •
Trends in Indonesia are up to the
promise of the September elections
the Communists are succeeding in getting
on the Nationalist bandwagon and ex-
ploiting “colonialism.” They have per-
suaded President Soekarno that it can-
not be denied that the three ideologies,
Nationalism, Marxism and Islam, can be
united.” They can—in the same way
that the famous young lady of Niger was
united with the tiger.
• •
Eden’s speech at Bradford satisfied
nobody and gave no hint of how
Britain’s greatest problems can be
handled —rising cost-of-living due to
increasing costs of production in other
countries like Australia and infection of
the younger generation with the craze for
leisure; consequent further rise in the
cost-of-living and new demands for wage-
increases. Present demands for wage-
rises on the board are estimated as likely
to cost £lOO million a year, and British
tenderers are already being outbid on
price in the world market for work and
goods Jjdl round the globe.
• •
The Arab world is quickly uniting.
With the addition of the Sudan Republic,
unobtrusively formed on January 1,
Egypt, Syria, Irak, Lebanon, Jordan,
Saudi Arabia, Libya and Yemen are
linked in a collective Arab security-pact
and military alliance. All are being
infiltrated by the Communists, whose
only real failure in the Moslem world
so far is Pakistan. And even that is
going republican.
• •
The riots in Bombay over the Gov-
ernment’s arbitrary decision to reorganise
the Indian States on language lines have
so far resulted in 400 being killed in a
week. Shops, trains and houses are being
attacked by mobs, and the police have
been ordered to shoot on sight to check
riots. If the British while in charge had
given an order like this the whole
American, Australian and Russian press
would have been shrieking about the
brutality of colonialism.
• •
In 1956 Britain hopes to turn out
about 21 million tons of steel. The U.S.
figure is put at 115 million. Western Ger-
many in 1955 passed Britain’s output, to
become the world’s third-largest producer,
following the United States and Russia.
The motor-car industry is a great user of
steel. There are some queries as to
whether there will be as great a world-
production of cars in 1956 as in 1955.
Australia expects to produce some-
thing better than 2.1 million tons of steel
in 1956. It is still the cheapest basic steel
in the world, but it is about 15 p.c. short
of annual requirements.
• •
The death of A. G. Christian, Minister
for Agriculture and Forests in S.A.,
M.H.A. for Eyre since 1938, a soldier of
World War I (11th Field Ambulance)
and an acknowledged expert on wheat
and wool and local government, leaves a
large gap in Playford’s party. In
reputation for clarity of mind and firm-
ness he was second only to his leader.
Perhaps the choice will be easier after the
State election, which, since the last plebis-
cite closes on February 20, seems likely
to be in March or April.
• •
The Tariff Board has told of the case
of a textile-manufacturer whose incen-
tive-scheme resulted in an increase in
man-hour production as high as 180 p.c.
in his factory. A good employee could
earn a bonus as much as 33! P- c - of
award wages. The board is of the opin-
ion that incentive-schemes, wherever
practicable, are essential if Australian in-
dustries are to be competitive with those
of other countries.
• •
“E. & 0.E.”: George Healey, whose
book A.L.P. —The Story of the Labor
Party was published just before the
election (B. 14/12/’55), is not the only
member of the clan to feel qualms. In
Tasmania, “Tim” Healy was also “a
true-blue Labor man” ; a member of that
party for 47 years, and a branch-secretary
for 14. Yet in the week that ended on
polling-day he left the party and resigned
his secretaryship, because, he could no
longer follow the Evatt brand of “Labor,”
or stomach abuse of his church.
• •
“Sam”: The Netherlands provides one
of the most valuable and easily assimi-
lated non-British sources of recruitment
for Australia’s population. In the years
that immediately followed World War
11, Canada was the strongest attraction
for Dutch emigrants, but within the past
three or four years Australia has been
getting an increasing share. In 1954 Aus-
tralia received 10,906 immigrants from
the Netherlands; 13,500 came here in
1955.
• •
Last year’s quota of migrants, 115,000,
was exceeded by 7000. The target for the
current year is 125,000.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Senator Hashley has
taken it on himself to criticise the U.S.
State Department for daring to
award a “leader”-grant to former
“Labor” Whip in the House of
Reps., Fred Daly, without consulting the
“Labor” party. (Ashley, a typical Evatt
supporter, dislikes Daly’s criticism of the
Doc.). The Senator, one of the several
examples of why “Labor” can never hope
to have a rejuvenated policy and a live
Senate Opposition, asserted that the State
Department was playing politics in its
selection of those to whom U.S. funds
would be available for travel to and from
the U.S. and for maintenance there. This
kind of petty stupidity helps to make
Australia look even more ridiculous than
did some union criticism of the Aus-
tralian team to attend the study-conference
organised by the Duke of Edinburgh.
“Labor” can have no hope while voices of
men of this type are heeded.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A/fOST people, in their heart of hearts,
1 . are still afraid of flying. Yet
during the past years about 6|-million
people have been carried by commercial
airlines in Australia without one passen-
ger-fatality. During the same period, in
New South Wales alone, more than
2500 people have been killed and 50,000
injured in road - accidents. “Orang
Puteh.”
* >
“Pioneer Paddy”: In a senior class-
room at a large Catholic girls’ college in
Tasmania the nun in charge was having
a Feast Day, and pupils past and present
were arriving with small gifts and good-
wishes. Halfway through lessons a timid
knock sounded, and Sister opened the
door to two six-year-olds standing on
the step: “Sister up in our room sent
us down to sing a hymn to you for your
Feast Day.” The children joined their
hands as in prayer, raised their eyes
piously to the ceiling and sang very
beautifully the Hymn to Our Lady of
Lourdes. At the end Sister and the class
clapped enthusiastically, and then Sister
said, “That was really lovely, but I’m
sure you know something else and we
would love an encore; please sing an-
other.” Happy to oblige, the children
joined hands as in prayer again, and with
eyes raised to heaven sang in unison,
“Put your arms around me, Honey, hold
me tight.” Sister, with tears streaming
down her face, ushered them out and
the senior class returned cheerfully to
the anomalies of the English language.
❖❖ , ❖
“Delta”: Part of my daily struggle for
a crust is asking people their full Chris-
tian-names. To one, Lavendo, I re-
marked, “You must be about 30.” “Yes,”
she replied, “my father had a good win
on Lavendo when it won the Caulfield
Cup.” Lavendo’s year was 1915. An-
“Woman driver , I suppose.”
other, Floriferous, said that her father
saw die name on a stick in the Botanic
Gardens and liked it. A man explained
his unusual name: “Me old man called
me after his dawg.” Another said he was
named Desmond after Desmond the show
high-jumper known to all Australian
crowds of 40 years ago.
♦♦♦ ❖
“S.”: The night after Ray Lawler’s
admirable “Summer of the 17th Doll”
opened in Sydney I went to a party where
half-a-dozen intellectuals fell to criticis-
ing the Elizabethan Theatre Trust —for
not putting on more Australian plays and
for not paying the actors more money.
There wasn’t one of them who’d been to
the first-night or booked to go later to
“Summer of the 17th Doll,” which is
surely the only practical way of encour-
aging the Trust to put on more Aus-
tralian plays and to pay the actors more.
* ❖ ❖
“Doric”: Even allowing for Holly-
wood’s extraordinary musical tastes I
was surprised to hear, of a film in which
a famous singer is starring, “I’m sure
you’ll like the picture—he hardly sings
at all!”
♦> ❖ ❖
“C. Vale”: The day after their arrival
in Sydney I photographed two young
Turks who’d by then ridden halfway
round the globe per murder-cycle.
Asked to follow my car closely to the
Domain, where the Bridge would fill-in
the background, Ali besought me to
“Drive through the city like you are a
stranger, please.” “Sydney traffic too
wild for you, eh, Ali?” “Indeed, yes,”
butted in Turhan, “and your taxi-drivers!
They will all go to Heaven —in one day
they must scare the Devil out of more
people than your priests would in a life-
time.”
♦> * *Z*
“Pelm”: Great-Grandma, aged 92, has
for fully 49 years imbibed two bottles
of gin, three bottles of sherry and a
bottle of brandy a week. Last month her
daughter called me in to help lift
G.-Grandmama from the bath into which
she had inadvertently fallen. Luckily no
water was in the bath, and G.-Grandma
majestically held forth her hand to be
escorted from the bathroom, taking steps
therefrom as though mounting a stile.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Zake”: Our general-prac., who in
five years has graduated from a used
16cwt. job to the newest of two-toned
34cwt. juggernauts, is now at pains to
prune his practice. To this end he
brought in a by-appointment-only rule
(now down to three nights a week), and
in the waiting-room notice which carries
his set of regulations he ends with a
pointed discourager to those who enjoy
bad health: “Is your visit really neces-
sary? Ask yourself this before coming.”
Underneath which a patient—who is now
possibly an ex-patient—has added: “I
did, Doc., and I discovered I had only
grown this carbuncle for fun.”
# # *
“N.A.8.”: New Zealand’s a country
flowing with milk and honey—but they
can’t mix a malted-milk. I found this
out to my dismay in windy Wellington.
When I told the milk-bar girl what I
wanted —a “vanilla malted” —she fiddled
and stumbled over the job . . . and the
botch she served —ugh! Reckon if she
saw Australian girls flip the milk from
the container to the glass at distances of
up to 2ft. she’d gulp with astonishment.
* ❖ ❖
“A.C.T.”: Ceylon’s Prime Minister,
Sir John Kotalawala, has decided to give
his magnificent home in Colombo, Kan-
dawela, to the orphan children of Ceylon,
"No, I don't think I'll go in —I gef seasick so easily."
irrespective of caste, creed and race.
The income of nearly 10,000 rupees a
month from the estate and farm will go
to finance a home on the lines of Dr.
Bamardo’s Homes. An announcement of
the gift will be made in the preface to
Sir John’s book. An Asian Premier's
Story, to be published in February; net
proceeds from the sale of this auto-
biography v will go to a trust-fund which
will also finance the maintenance of the
home.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Doormat”: A model village with
croquet-lawns, bowling-greens and its
own fishing-stream is to be built, for
200 elderly people, on an eight-acres site
in the Melbourne suburb of Eltham. It
will be run by the City Mission for those
who have “lost in the battle of life.”
From the two-story buildings on sloping-
ground to the rear of the estate gently
inclined ramps will dispense with the need
for stairs, and give the old people easy
access to the upper rooms.
“Mac Hoots”: I saw a young woman
going round the pictures in the current
exhibition at David Jones’ gallery,
Sydney, calmly doing her knitting.
% *> *>
“Exit”: Success with the London tube
left me anxious to repeat the performance
in Paris. Buying a ticket, I was soon lost
in the milling throng that wended its way
on to the pavement. Retracing my steps,
I joined a second stream of pedestrians,
only to repeat the performance. I tried
again. It was only after discovering my-
self in a portion of the railway premises
reserved exclusively for females that I
came to the conclusion that a cab was a
very necessary evil.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Own Name”: Formerly I always
signed my name “(Mrs.) Own Name.” In
the etiquette-book I saw that it was
correct, but that some think it is better
to sign your n&me followed by your
husband’s in brackets: “Own Name
(Mrs. Mr.’s Name).” I began to do that.
But, to my chagrin, my next cheque for
contributions was made out “Mr.’s
Name” minus the “Mrs.,” so that my
husband got the cheque. I have reverted
to “(Mrs.) Own Name.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.A.”: While authorities have been
emphasising the hazards of the road,
water and' fire to young children, little
cognisance has been taken of two other
increasing sources of danger—loaded
firearms, which have again caused some
holiday deaths, and misadventure at play
in the home. In the latter category there
have been two instances in my own Vic-
torian district of children playing hide-
and-seek in car-boots and reckoning with-
out the perfection achieved by manufac-
turers in making these receptacles almost
airtight.
<s» ♦> ♦>
“Swelpme”: I’m no authority on horti-
culture ; still, rambhng through the rose-
section at our local show, I would not
have been surprised to find an Edith
Cavell, Mrs. Miniver, President Roosevelt
or even a Winston Churchill; but I con-
fess to dropping the bottom jaw at the
sight of a bloom monickered “The
Editor.” The discovery has caused me
considerable thought. Was the species
named by some rose-growing poet who
thought to thus show his appreciation of
a man who had done him great service by
expertly pruning his literary blossoms?
Or was it christened by a disgruntled bard
endeavoring to impress on the world that
everything a more-famous member of his
craft had said about a rose with any
other name, etc., could still be correct
even if taken to such extremes?
£4
“Kia-Ora”: I moved into a new house
on top of a hill on Monday. Washed on
Tuesday, a devilish windy day, and had
to gather it up from the four points of
the compass. Had my first caller on Wed-
nesday. A salesman selling name-plates.
The one offered to me was Four Winds.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kenyas”: It isn’t only New Aus-
tralians who have trouble with our diffi-
cult English. Heard a chap say in all
seriousness he’d burned his rubbish in
his new “insinuator,” and an Army-
sergeant reading orders pronounce
“schedule” as “skedoodle,” while the
laundress at the hospital along the street
(she’s a confirmed gardener in her spare
time) complains that someone has
pinched her “executors,” the sharpest
she’s ever owned. At the moment I’m
holding myself back from rushing off to
the local library; have been advised to
read a novel by Jane Austen entitled
Sex and Sex Ability.
“Jock”: Two New Australians have
taken over the comer mixed-business,
and they are out to please. The missus,
who usually gets her bread there, laconic-
ally asked Karl the other day: “Baker
been?” He dashed off and was back in
a second —with a tin of baked-beans.
❖ ❖ ❖
HTHE railway bisecting Perth forms a
line of demarcation between Old
and New Australians. The Naussies
have segregated themselves into a com-
munity north of the fine, and to walk
its streets and visit shops and restaurants
in the area you could easily imagine
yourself in Europe. Twice each working-
day at a busy level-crossing, impatiently
waiting for the gates to be thrown open
after the passage of Fremantle trains,
stand the two factions, the Aussies on
the south side and the New Australians
on the north. As soon as the gates are
opened the two hordes rush and pass
each other on the lines, scores of brief-
cased Naussies making for employment
in the city, Old Aussies going north to
work at factories and warehouses in the
European quarter. Again at five the
scene is re-enacted in reverse, the Old
Aussies going south to catch transport
to their homes, the Naussies returning
north to take over their section of the
city.—“C.A.L.”
ACCOMMODATION
“In Moore Park, Sydney, 250 men erected
for visiting American evangelist Oral Roberts
the largest tent in the world, seating about
14,000 people.”
Big bulls, big pigs, big crowds, big\ scores
Are found past Sydney Showground
doors,
And in Moore Park across the way
The biggest tent has come to stay,
So big that most of Sydney’s sin
Could manage to be fitted in.
Today religion needs to be
Distinguished by consistency,
And New South Welshmen who repent
Should find their symbol in a tent,
For then the houseless ones can claim
To live and worship in the same.
Though, strangely, no one has to search
To find a vacant place in church;
The clergy tell me it is even
As roomy, now, in church as Heaven:
"Alas,” they say, “it isn’t true
That God has housing-problems, too !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TUENT to the local talkies, to find that
” the seats in which we regularly sit
were marked “Reserved” and the usher
showed us to seats a couple of rows
further back. The rest of the house
quickly filled, and just before curtain-
'rise a couple of latecomers looked at the
reserved seats and asked the usher: “Who
are these seats reserved for?” “Jupiter
Pluvius,” the usher replied (a hailstorm
had caused a leak in the roof over the
reserved seats). “Bloody foreigners/’
“They notified me today, dear, that at last I can get into the golf-club
as a provisional member !”
grumbled the latecomers as they were
shown seats further back.—“ Eureka.”
* * *
' “Eureka”: At Katoomba, in the Blue
Mountains, about 9ft. out from each
kerb along the Royal route a broad white
line was painted, indicating the distance
out that spectators of the Queen’s pro-
gress could stand. It must have been
good paint—it’s still quite white after
nearly two years. Visiting motorists now
imagine it’s a parking-line, so that many
cars are parked too far out from the
kerb and others are parked where park-
ing is not permitted. On the top plat-
form at Echo Point two great planks,
12in. square and the full length of the
platform, were used to carry the official
dais. They are now hurdles sightseers
must negotiate to get to the edge of the
lookout. Perhaps white-ants will do the
removal job.
“Caloola”: My uncle, W. Cameron, a
Boer War veteran and member of the
Australian contingent sent to England
to represent Australia at the coronation
of King Edward VII, can be added to the
cricketer-politicians. He was a mighty
hitter and still holds the record for quick
scoring, making 140 not-out in 20min.
when playing with the Singleton club
against a Sydney team in 1908, hitting 17
sixes from 19 balls. His swipe that sent
a ball right out of the Maitland show-
ground into the street has never been
paralleled. He was one of the team the
Rev. Waddy took to Ceylon. As Parlia-
mentarian he represented the Upper
Hunter in the N.S.W. Assembly during
the Holman, Fuller and Bavin Adminis-
trations ; he died while still in Parliament
during the term of the Lang Government.
♦*4 *l*
“C.A.L.”: Public-relations in the
building-business has extended to Perth,
where each panel of the fencing round a
department-store to be begun this year
will have an observation-hole so that
passers-by can see the workings on the
seven-story building. Also, bulletin-
boards will report each week’s progress.
The owners say the observation-ports
and bulletin-boards are an American
invention..
❖ *t* ♦♦♦
“J.K.”: Now bearing the ominous
sign “Whelan the Wrecker Is Here,” the
century-old two-story building in
Latrobe-street, abutting Melbourne’s
Russell-street Police Headquarters. It
was once the residence of Dr. Edward
Baker, one-time Government Medical
Officer, who acted in that capacity at the
hanging of Ned Kelly, on November 11,
1880.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Baggyduds”: The pub was out of
beer, so we decided to call in at our
supply-point, where there is always a
brew just on, or just about to be, a depot
commanded by a little Jiminy-Cricketlike
sar’-major. Spotting our car, and, as we
thought, anticipating some brass, he came
bellowing out of his office, “Off your
backsides, there, this ain’t a cosy-corner
or convalescent-depot, hup, hup, hup!”
The four card-playing, three dozing, two
reading and one post-assisting might not
have heard. During the tea-session the
s.-m. again descended upon his men with
the same negative result. After the third
onslaught we remarked, “What’s the
caper, galloping out there like Aunt-
Betsy-after-the-donkeys and no one tak-
ing any notice?” “Well,” he said, “I
know there’s nothing to do and they
know there’s nothin’ to do, but it’s my
J°b to make out there is, and, anyway,
it keeps ’em on the ball!”
* *
“Melbn”: Tell “Avon’’ (B. 11/1/’56)
that piecarts are as rare a phenomenon
in Melbourne these days as Cobb and
Co. coaches. The last time I saw pies
being eaten in the street was at the
Flinders-street intersection —by a lorry-
horse. He had his head inside one of
Pop’s piecarts, and was obviously relish-
ing the contents. Pop’s pies also seem
to have vanished, and I don’t know what
happened to Pop. As well as making and
selling pies, Pop was the inventor of an
explosive-bullet which was extensively
used by American troops'in various parts
of the Pacific during the last war. Pop
sued Uncle Sam for royalties on his
“ Hi , there! Come on over and join the gang!”
patent to the tune of several million dol-
lars. I don’t know whether he won, but
the piecart-industry in Melbourne hasn’t
been the same since,
* *X* ❖
“Doric”: He is an enthusiastic amateur
photographer and often pleases the
neighbors by snapping their children.
One in particular was delighted with a
photo of her six progeny in a row. When
her brOod became ten, she sent along
to ask the photographer if he would
take another family-assembly. “What
sort of a camera does she think I’ve got?”
he commented. “Cinemascope?”
“Civav”: The old order cometh back!
After lots of trial-and-error my favorite
washing-machine has proved how won-
derfully suitable terylene is for our tropi-
cal garbs. Read a lengthy report on the
fabric (B. 21/12/ ’55) and sent it with
a letter listing our needs to the manufac-
turers. Arrives today a most helpful
letter exhaustively covering the subject,
and would I please accept the enclosed
gift tie made of the stuff. Am now hope-
fully preparing a set of admiring letters
to various other firms: “Dear Jaguar
Cars....”
* * ❖
“Hy Thyme”: I could hear Hoppy’s
artificial-leg thumping the pavement as he
walked towards me. “Grasshoppers out
your way yet?” I asked, “No,” he
replied, “I wish the b -s would hurry
up and come. The wet winter has pro-
duced so much growth in my garden that
it’s got the shellbacks licked to a frazzle.
I need a swarm of ’hoppers to help ’em
out.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: In Queensland a Censor-
ship Board has banned most of the
comics; the medley of sex- and horror-
literature no longer colors the newsagents’
stalls ; so I’d like to know how and where
our early-teenager got this gem of 176-
pages : On the front-cover an old-time
picture of a swordsman and a lady-of-the-
court Some excerpts from within: “La,
let him stare as she disrobed for eager
eyes.” “ she lay smiling up at him
from the bed, skirts awry.” “And ran
with her to the low wide bed.” Published
in England, the book’s outside appear-
ance wouldn’t bring a second glance.
But, 00, la, la; you can’t judge a book
by its cover!
☆ ☆ ☆
“Sixer”: What about this kid up at
Ferntree Gully (Vic.) who took six
wickets with six successive balls in an
under-15 match? How many hat-tricks
—two, three or four?
☆ ☆ ☆
“C. Vale”: When Auckland’s Civic
Fathers objected to two motor-cycles
occupying the space presided over by
one parking-meter, there followed a few
days of hectic, concerted organising by
club-secretaries and early one evening
each and every meter-controlled space in
the city was filled by just one motor-
cycle. After a few consecutive nights
of this the screams of baffled motorists
changed the council’s heart.
♦> ♦♦♦ ♦+♦
“Bo”: The Hollywood potboiler was
set in a wild frontier-town ; announced
period, the turn of the century. There
were enough black beards in the saloon
to pad a three-piece lounge-suite, and
their owners vociferously applauded the
shy newcomer to the ranks of the enter-
tainment-ladies after she’d yawped her
first song. Title of the murdered opus:
“By the Light of the Silvery Moon” —
which was minted around 1913.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Mari”: A Brisbane suburb makes its
contribution to the signs of the times:
an elaborate chromium sign, in foot-high
letters, on a palatial brick garage, offers
your car a fuel-injection—price unstated.
A few miles further away, on the simply
painted old-fashioned wooden walls of
a doctor’s waiting-room, a homely card,
printed in modest one-inch letters, offers
you a general overhaul for two-guineas.
V V V
“Maitri”: I knew an excellent speaker,
one of whose best tricks was the giving
of long quotations in French, Italian,
German; or he would quote lengthy
Latin tags. He never bothered to trans-
late, which subtly flattered his audiences,
though I used to wonder whether he
always understood his quotations. On
a night when he was at the very top of
his form he rocked us by rattling-off a
sizeable bit of Sanskrit. Better that a
millstone had been hanged about his
neck! There happened to be an authority
on Eastern languages in the hall, and
from the pertinent questions he asked at
the end of the talk it was made clear
to all that the speaker knew not one word
of the sublime language of the Vedas.
■£+
“Vincit”: Although of tender years,
he was a willing escort to everting ser-
vice. He enjoyed the singing, but was
unable to cope with the sermon, yawns
and audible protests providing an em-
barrassing accompaniment. Reluctant to
terminate his religious observances, I
provided him with a pocket-dictionaTy:.
he is now a devout worshipper.
☆ # ☆
“Jurumudi”: A quaint misprint in
Melbourne “Herald’s” report of the wed-
ding of an English art-student to the
grandson of the Sultan of Johore at
Johore Bharu referred to the ceremony
of “Berstanding,” which the “Herald”
translated as “Sitting -in - state.” A
Malayan couple certainly sit bolt up-
right on two thrones set side by side, not
moving a finger or batting an eyebrow
for three days and three nights, and to
take a gink at one another is simply not
done. After this ordeal they are con-
ducted tumultuously to the bridal-
chamber, where they sit on an enormous
bed draped in curtains while friends and
relatives compete in telling ribald stories,
the more ribald the better. The couple
then retire behind the curtains and the
guests retreat behind a sheet drawn across
the apartment, while the duennas squat
on the floor awaiting the flinging of the
bedsheet, which they pounce on and
examine for evidence of the virginity of
the bride. Otherwise the bridegroom is
entitled to return the bride to her parents,
along with the dowry. I don’t know how
far the new Johore keeps up the old
tradition. The word for the cetemony
is “Bersanding.”
EXPERIMENT
Midsummer, and I heard again
(For somewhere near the umpteenth
time )
The criticism that we men
Wear clothes unfitted for our clime.
Why not, in this hot spell, uproot
Old tailoring-conservatism ?
For once 1 might be resolute;
Dice, once for all, my weighty suit,
That menace, that anachronism.
Just look at women! Don’t they dress
Their greatest comfort to ensure ?
Their lack of weariness, distress,
Is due to their divestiture. '
Long since they learned tp lightly deck
Themselves and laugh at heat-wave
blast.
I come home looking like a wreck,
My collar soaked around my neck.
Why can’t I get some sense at last ?
As water wears a stone away
The stubbornness that was my pride
Was word-eroded. Yesterday
I bought, as cover for my hide,
A shirt and singlet light as down,
A pair of rammies, summer-weight.
And, though I must have looked a clown,
Sans coat, I journeyed into town,
Sped by approving long-haired mate.
This morning was a scorcher, yet
With no discomfort was I seized.
The heat I almost could forget;
I must admit that l was pleased.
At 4 p.m. a southerly came ;
The temp, dropped 32 degrees.
The cold gale bored right through my
frame;
Lower and lower burned my flame
As, homeward-bound, l did a freeze.
I’ve of ted heard sub blokes cob plaid
(Their voices were dot jocular )
Wibbed are tough. Seeig theb arrayed
So lightly, I’ll agree they are.
But dress-ref orb for bed I view
Gribly. I’d like to shoot the coot
Who thought of it. Dow — ah-ti-shoo !
Excuse be —thigk I’ve got the ’flu —
This subber clobber is taboo.
I’b goig back to heavy suit!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


IriTil
AuAfcaJua/
•HtUinM
Hwmsvwi
►
... the aristocrat of Australian skies
Reservations; TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPV23B
PERSONAL ITEM
Seen in Perth at the beginning of a
business-tour of Australia, Lord Peel,
great-grandson of former British Prime
Minister Sir Robert Peel. Since the days
of the godfather of all British policemen,
the present Peel is the first of his family
£35 the P oilcloth-and-Unoleum
v • ’ f j j 110 A „1 • i
L toough Smother 8 ’
• •
Succeeding Neal Macrossan as Queens-
land Chief Justice, Alan James Mansfield,
Supreme Court Judge since 1940 and
Senior Puisne Judge since 1947. A son
of the late Judge Edward Mansfield, the
new Chief Justice was born at Indooroo-
pilly (Q.) and educated at Sydney Church
of Grammar School Ind Syd-
ney University. He lectured in Bank-
ruptcy Law at Queensland University
from 1938 to 1940, was on the Board of
Inquiry into Japanese War Crimes and
was Australian representative at the U.N.
CHIEF JUSTICE
War Crimes Commission in London in
1945. The following year he was Aus-
tralian prosecutor-in-chief at the Far
East International Military Tribunal. His
elevation to Chief Justice was generally
expected.
• •
“X.”: Kurt Woess, who is to be
Melbourne’s next -impermanent con-
ductor, conducts serenade-concerts in the
open-air in Vienna. His latest—in the
Arkadenhof, ah open square inside the
Town Hall —was held in the depth of
winter, with a bitterly cold wind blow-
ing: Woess is evidently hardening him-
self for his first Melbourne season.
• »
In Australia on a peaceful mission, with
wife and two children, Jerzy Zubrzycki,
a slim, spectacled Pole, who, when he had
just turned 21, escaped from Poland with
blueprints of a plan for British aid to
the Polish “underground.” That was in
1941. He spent seven weeks on the
perilous journey across Nazi-occupied
western Europe, reached London (where
the plans were examined and eventually
put into operation) and was later en-
gaged in dropping supplies to “under-
ground” fighters in Poland. After the
war he put in several years at London
University, making a special study of the
way 140,000 Polish refugees were faring
in the United Kingdom. His conclusions
have been embodied in a recently pub-
lished book. Financed by the Nuffield
Research Foundation, he yvill go to Can-
berra National University for five years
to study the economic and social effects
of post-war migration, with special atten-
tion to the assimilation of various national
groups.
Dr. Alan F. Wilson, senior lecturer in
Geology at the University of Westralia,
is home again from a strenuous twelve-
months’ working-tour of the world. On
a Fulbright travel-grant he spent five
months as visiting Professor of Geology
in the University of Indiana and two
months on a lecture-tour of eastern
Canada and the U.S., then looked over
American uranium-fields and goldmines,
with, next, an observation-tour of
Britain, Western Europe, India and
Ceylon. His special interest in India was
in charnockites, which are among the
world’s rarest and oldest stones. Char-
nockite is a streaky granite-like rock, so
called because a stone of this type is at
the head of the grave of Job Chamock,
the East India Company official who
founded Calcutta and was buried there
in 1693. Wilson first saw chamockite,
which is formed of primeval mud, in
Central Australia.
• •
“K.R.” on Hutton’s retirement: —•
Len Hutton, at 39, has retired from Test-
cricket, for medical reasons. When he was 14,
in 1930,, Herbert Sutcliffe (his first mentor, then
opening England’s innings with Jack Hobbs)
told the visiting Australians that he would one
day bat better for England than Hobbs ever
did; and if Hutton didn’t perhaps bat better
he at least batted as well, and ranks with the
greatest opening-batsmen of all time.
Hutton played in 79 Tests, 27 against Aus-
tralia; in all Tests he made 6971 runs, av. 56.6,
and in Tests against Australia 2428, averaging
also just over 56. He made 23 Test-centuries;
scored a century (100 exactly) in his first Test
against Australia, in 1938, and in the fifth 1938
Test, 364, the highest Test score —and the
longest innings (13hr. 20min.) ever played in
first-class cricket.
In 1952 he became captain of England, the
first professional captain since the early days
of cricket, and didn’t lose a Test-series. In
1953 he won the, Ashes back from Australia, and
in 1954-55 in Australia capped his Test career
by holding the Ashes after England had dis-
astrously lost the first Test. Hutton’s leader-
ship is acknowledged to have helped greatly to-
wards winning that series.
• •
In Melbourne as one of the Seato
seven, Lieut.-General Jesus Vardas, the
first Philippines soldier to reach that
Army rank; professional rise, to some
extent, coincided wtih the decline of the
Huks, Philippine Reds who numbered at
their peak 12,000 and then diminished
to a bare 1000. Vardas’s method, it may
be remembered, was all-out force and
all-out friendship. While a Huk was in
the field, war ; when he surrendered, prac-
tical help in the form of a farm, stock
and other aid until he was established.
Vardas was in the Bataan death-march,
and was in the resistance-movement up
to VJ-Day.
• •
Gone on, two plant-breeders whose
names will be recorded in Australian
agricultural history—-Harold Wenholz,
one-time Director of Plant Breeding in
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture;
and Richard Soutter, doyen of Queens-
land’s plant-breeders.
Dr. S. L. Mclndoe, who himself has
bred more than a few great wheat-
varieties, says that Wenholz was noted for
his organisation of plant-introduction and
for his plant-breeding work throughout
N. S. Wales. Wenholz searched the world
for new plant-characters, many of which
were introduced into new and improved
varieties by the band of young plant-
breeders whom he inspired and directed.
Soutter bred many rust- and drought-
resistant wheats, ideally adapted to
Queensland conditions. Puseas, Puno,
Seafoam, Lawrence and Spica are a few.
A few years back 80 per cent, of Queens-
land’s wheat-acreage was sown to Sout-
ter-bred wheats. Free from affectation,
Soutter was a modest and a humble man,
ready always to distribute the credit for
his achievements amongst those who
helped him.
“Watto” appraises a notable Maori:
Making a round of farewell-visits to Maoris
throughout both islands, Te Rangiatahua
Kiniwe (Rangi) Royal, M.C. and Bar, Controller
of Maori Welfare in New Zealand.
When he retires on April 2 this fine Maori
personality and administrator will have put in
40 years with the Department of Maori Affairs.
He started when it had a handful of people
doing purely judicial work; he ends-up with
more than half-a-hundred welfare-officers on his
own staff.
Throughout the Dominion he has seen
hundreds of tribal committees appointed to
assist the self-government and self-discipline of
Maori communities, and as he hands over to a
successor (so far unannounced) he has the satis-
faction of seeing scores of young Maoris in the
universities and hundreds more apprenticed or
journeymen in useful trades.
Rangi Royal’s commanding presence and his
family - ties with practically every tribe in
Maoriland have been distinct assets in a some-
times-difficult job, but, as he showed in Libya,
where during 1941 he was 2 i./c. Maori Bat-
talion, and in Crete, he has initiative. In Rugby,
cricket, hockey and rowing, he has for years
given young Maoris practical help in forming
and helping administer their own organisations.
He himself played for the Maori Rugb’y Union
team in France and England in 1918 and 1919,
but golf’s his game now.
• •
C.M.G. to Edward Emerton Warren,
M. for services to the coal industry.
Chairman of the N.S.W. Colliery Pro-
prietors and an Old Digger (Gallip. and
France), he keeps himself active running
the giant and progressive J. and A. Brown
Abermain-Seaham Collieries colliers,
new coal-washing plant and all.
• •
Grandson of bookseller \ George
Robertson, who pooled his £l5 with
David Angus’s £5O to form what became
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., and son of
Ferguson/J., noted in recess as author of
Bibliography of Australia and a collector
of Australiana, George Ferguson went
into circulation at Greenwich, Sydney,
in 1910. A B.A. from Sydney
University in 1930, a number of years
selling books on A. and R.’s ground-floor
and several more at the company’s print-
ing-works, enabled him to fit comfortably
the publishing-director’s chair of the firm
on the sudden death of W. G. Cousins in
1949. A pre-war trip to launch A. and
R.’s London office and war-time service
as an R.A.A. staff-officer with brigade-
major appointments around Australia
and New Guinea helped the process. As
first and only president of the Australian
Book Publishers’ Association, since the
amalgamation of the Victorian and
N. associations in 1950, much of the
credit for the impressive renaissance of
Australian books since the war must go
to Ferguson—hence his C.B.E. in the New
Year list. Two monumental A.
and R. projects nearing completion do
AUSTRALIAN PUBLISHER
not appear to have disturbed his youth-
ful appearance nor exhausted his vigor—
the publishing of the revised Australian
Encyclopedia in 10 volumes (originally
two, 30 years ago), now 10 years in the
making, and the building of new printing-
works and offices at Kingsgrove (Sydney).
Alex. L. Rigby, quietly-spoken, dark,
blocky, competent-looking, became presi-
dent of the Veteran Motorists of Aus-
tralia on the retirement of its principal
founder, A. R. Tewkesbury.
The new man’s father was also a
founder and for many years vice-president
and a moving spirit in the organisa-
tion, which aims to reduce the appalling
VETERAN MOTORIST
rate of road-accidents by setting a sort
of premium on safe driving ; by educa-
tion, by co-operation with such concerns
as the Road Safety Council and the
Police Department (by way of prizes,
films and the like), and, particularly, by
fostering a pride and espzit-de-co.rps.
among motorists with unblemished
records.
Basic membership requirement is a
“clean” driving-record of 15 years;
members wear a badge with years of safe
driving marked from this period in five-
year intervals.
A Sydneysider, educated at Newington,
he, was an A.I.F. captain. A director of
Kell and Rigby (which firm, among its
other big jobs in Sydney, built the Grace
Building, the Anzac Memorial, the A.P.A.
building in Martin-place and, more re-
cently, the Britstand works at Alexan-
dria), he finds time for lots of other activi-
ties —on the Council of the Royal Empire
Society, board of the Schools Club, Ltd.,
member of Board of Advice of the Ash-
field Infants’ Home ... in fact, he serves
on a total of some 22 boards or
committees!
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, in his 87th year, Lionel J.
Thompson, member of Sydney Stock Exchange.
He was the youngest son of T. J. Thompson,
who was one of the 12 who formed the
Exchange in the ’seventies, Before age caught
up with him, LJ.’s main recreation was trout-
fishing on the Monaro.
In Christchurch (N.Z.) at 79, Lieut.-Colonel
A. F. Loach, commander of the Ist. Btn.
Canterbury Regiment at Gallipoli, where he was
wounded and lost a leg. A native of Birming-
ham, he left for Australia when 15, and later
crossed to N.Z. When the Boer War broke
out he sailed with the 2nd N.Z. contingent.
Back in N.Z., he tutored young officers, many of
whom became famous. Secretary for more than
20 years of the Christchurch Savage Club.
At Beachport (S.A.), at 76, Engineer-Com-
mander J, V. Corigliano. In the 1914-18 war
he was chief-engineer of the first Australia.
During the last war he was in charge of oil-
supplies for the R.A.N. Since retirement he
had lived in his old home-town.
In Sydney, at 76, well-known yachtsman
Arthur Stevens; skippered Norn for N.S.W. in
the Sayonara Cup defence of 1932, set world-
record in the 50-footer Rawhiti by winning the
annual point-score against all-comers for eight
successive years, later raced the 65-footer
Morna. His father, Harry Stevens, was skipper
of the famous 36-footer Australia, which, in the
1880’s, revolutionised yacht-design throughout
the world.
At Nildottie (S.A.), at 62, Arthur William
Christian, War I ambulanceman in France and
Belgium, Mallee property-owner, and since
1954 State Minister of Agriculture. More than
20 years a Parliamentarian, chairman of the
Public Works Committee for part of War 11,
he worked solidly in his portfolio, introducing
recent legislation to establish bulk wheat-
handling, to counter grasshopper-plagues, and
to combat bushfires. He collapsed after fight-
ing a bushfire on his own property.


v-
/ws' a Nice sir of
‘Skirt you re wcar/mo
-topa>/ MgS. T(2.pAL&.
WIFE’S LICENCE


ABORIGINALITIES
jCILLING-IN a claim-form to be sub-
mitted to an insurance-company, she
was unorthodox, but graphic. Under
“Describe the circumstances leading up
to the accident,” she wrote : “A mob of
kangaroos hopped across the road and
I was unable to stop in time or turn
right or left as the road is bordered
heavily with timber on both sides.” This
was followed by a sketch of the accident,
showing kangaroos hopping in all direc-
tions. To the question: “Which party
do you consider was responsible for the
accident? (Briefly state reason)” her
answer was: “Kangaroos. No road
sense!” —“Tock Emma.”
* * * *
“Scorpio”: Making camp at sunset, we
filled the billy from the creek, scraped
some leaves and twigs together and soon
had a fire going. As the billy began to
sing we heard plop-plop-plop, like large
raindrops, and sat amazed as small frogs
“ Ha-r-r-r-r-r-r-y! Dinner-time !”
hopped steadily across the bed of leaves
straight into the fire. The suicide of the
lemmings is well known in the Northern
Hemisphere: is the frogs’ suttee the
southern counterpart?
* * * *
“Saaedi”: A setting sun, and straight
up into the last rays of light flew the
singing honeyeater. At no great height
its flight seemed to falter; it tumbled
downwards several feet as if out of con-
trol, then righted itself and returned to
earth. A strange flight, which, for all
its feebleness, aped that of the song-larks.
Including the famous migrant, we have
five of these grassland melodists in Aus-
tralia, and few birds (and those infre-
quently and inadequately) essay their
singing ascent. Apart from the honey-
eater mentioned I know of only two
others —the grass-warbler and the gibber-
bird. The former dwells in tall, rank
grasses and standing crops ; the chatlike
gibber-bird is a denizen of the desert.
* * * *
“Caloola”: It may not be possible to
tell at a glance whether an egg is raw or
cooked, as with the prawn ; but there is
a way. A cooked egg will spin on its
side; a raw one will just give one or
two wobbles.
* * * *
“Half-dirty”: “I saw it, I tell y’—
I saw a rabbit chasin’ a dorg!” “Sure!”
the mob agreed, but promptly felt his
pulse and brow and tested his breath.
My share of the amusement disappeared
the following day, when 1 saw it myself.
Yes —a rabbit chasing a dog! I was only
saved in the nick of time from signing
the pledge by a simple explanation—that
the dog was more interested in rounding-
up rabbits than killing them. When my
fellow-witness and I had seen him he’d
been racing ahead to turn the bunny back
to the centre ot the paddock.
* * * *
“Masta Mak” (Rabaul): In the Sikut
River my locally-recruited labor-line dis-
covered a large crocodile asleep under a
ledge of rock in about 10ft. of water.
A native, after diving in the pool and
thoroughly inspecting the position, sur-
faced and obtained a length of vine.
Diving again, he fastened this around one
of the croc.’s legs, and at a given signal
all his cronies commenced to haul. The
reptile now began to take the game a
bit seriously and managed to disengage
his teg. The native as promptly replaced
the vine, securely this time, and they
dragged the 14ft. of enraged saurian to
the bank and dispatched it with short
lengths of sharpened reinforcing rod. I
went to sleep that night somewhat im-
pressed with the courage of these small-
statiired Baining natives. Next day I
sent 24 of them to the Warangoi River,
about six miles away, to carry back a
dozen concrete survey-pegs. They re-
turned that night without any. In my
best pidgin-English I questioned them
angrily, to be told that they were afraid
to go near the Warangoi as a tractor was
snigging timber near by—enough to
frighten any crocodile-hunters away!
“Harbel”: The life of engine-boilers
is amazing. I once repaired the brick-
work connected with an old horizontal-
type boiler used for supplying steam at
Lidcombe (N.S.W.) Old Men’s Home.
It had been there, working constantly,
about 15 years then, after having lain
rusting in an open paddock at Dubbo
for 30 years. The “old drum’s” work and
history before that wasn’t on record, but
it is safe to surmise that whoever had her
taken 280-odd miles from Sydney got his
money’s worth out of her before she was
left to rust.
“J.P.C.”: Reflections here on the lost
art of saddlery reminded me of the fore-
bodings of my late father, a saddler from
a family of saddlers (and, incidentally, a
regular “Abo.” contributor in the
’twenties). Rated among Melbourne’s best
tradesmen, he invented an expanding sur-
cingle, and he saw Sister Olive carry one
of his saddles first past the post in the
Melbourne Cup. But he had to work
hard to make a living out of it during the
’thirties, when motor-cars plus the de-
pression made the trade overcrowded.
I’ve known him to spend the whole day
in his horse-jinker searching for work,
then sit up by the kitchen-fire plying his
“He’ll be the first one to try out the chiefs pressure-cooker."
double-needles well into the night. Con-
sequently he shared the view of saddlers
generally that there was no future in
apprenticing their sons. The odd result
of this is that saddlers are now retiring
almost en masse without successors when
the call for their work still exists, and
had my father taught me the game I
would have experienced opposite condi-
tions to his —plenty of work, not enough
tradesmen.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Under our curious prod-'
ding the big carpet-snake stirred into
sluggish activity. He made for the near-
est tree, a dwarfed box-gum about 15ft.
high. Rearing up, he draped his length
over a stunted twig protruding from the
tree-trunk about 18in. above, until his
head touched the ground. Then, main-
taining ground-contact with his body, his
rising head formed another loop and
he reached the next twig about 3ft. up.
The ground “U” was then retracted, his
head dropped again, and he looped to the
first twig. The ascent was continued
in this fashion, using any available minute
bit of bark or knot-hole for assistance.
At the top of the tree he distributed his
weight so that the light foliage, which
didn’t look strong enough to carry a
gecko-lizard, supported him easily.
* * * *
“Rexine”: Andy lobbed into the little
bush town with a big cheque, but he
could have fired a machine-gun up and
down the bar without hitting anybody.
At the end of the first lonely day, by
when for Andy the beer had no flavor
and no bite, a caller arrived to ask the
publican if he knew of a job somewhere
handy to fill-in a week or so while he
awaited the start of a ringbarking con-
tract. Bung didn’t; but Andy did. “I’ll
give y’ a week’s work if that’s any good
to y’,” he said. “Better than nothing,”
agreed the newcomer. “What is it?”
“Fifteen-bob a day for seven days an’ y’r
board, an’ all the beer y’ can drink.”
“But what’s the work?” “That’s it. Y’
just drink with me. A cove can’t hang
around a pub moppin’ up suds by him-
self.” He was dinkum, too. Job promptly
accepted.
* « * *
“Bass”: On any clear night up
about Fitzroy Crossing (W.A.) you’ll
see ten or a dozen shooting-stars—l’ve
seen that many in an hour. The local
theory is that the desert holds some
attraction for meteors. One crater, some
60-odd miles south of Hall’s Creek, and
undoubtedly of meteoritic origin, is over
half-a-mile across., It was caused by a
body which probably weighed about a
million tons. The theory is that it pene-
trated to about 600 ft., then exploded ; it
may have struck less than 300 years ago.
The crater is only about 12 miles north
of the Canning stock-route and not far
from Billiluna station, but it was only
discovered accidentally when a geologist
on another mission flew over it a few
years ago.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: All the hot, breezeless
morning the shade of the big Moreton
Bay fig had taunted us like a desert
mirage, so at blow-up time there was no
question about where we’d have lunch.
The billycan had just completed the first
circuit when a crack like the report of a
.303 sounded from overhead. “Look
ou . .!” somebody yelled—and didn’t
finish the warning before the crash
came. For seconds nobody did more
than stare unbelievingly at near-death:
a branch about 7in. in diameter
and 20ft. long. Inspection showed that
the branch was dead, but not decayed
badly; we’re still looking for the reason
why that hundredweight-odd of timber
fell on a breathless day, although the
day before it had withstood a 40-m.p.h.
westerly.
* * * *
“Motuku”: Black-ducks can swim
under water for long distances. Our
section of the river is a private sanctuary,
and there are usually hundreds of ducks
on the sandbanks or in the shallow water
in the dry season. On the 50ft.-high bank
is a tree about 100 ft. high, and goshawks
perch on top of it. When a flight of
ducks comes speeding up- or down-
stream, they go up, hover while
watching the coming flight, then turn
and dive. They rarely miss, but
their talon strokes aren’t always
mortal. I often saw wounded birds dive
as soon as they hit the water. Two of
us went after two of them, and a fine
chase they led us in a shallow pool about
100yds. long and 20yds. wide. They
stayed under water much longer than we
could have done, and the strangling
waterweed that has drowned many duck-
shooters didn’t seem to bother them.
They both carried claw-marks, and when
we took them on to a bank they made
no attempt to fly, but scuttled down to
the water and dived in again.
* * * *
AN indigenous and important item of
Maori diet was the bush-rat. Mm
exulans, which lived on berries and insects
and stalked native-birds. These kiore
travelled in swarms along hilly ridges
and spurs in well-defined tracks easily
discernible by Maori trappers and snarers,
and at times they reached plague-
proportions.
One moving mob, recorded in 1884,
plunged into Lake Waikare-moana and
swam until they drowned. A similar per-
formance was seen in the Nelson district
about the same time, a calamity to the
hungry Maori.
Gradually, these kiore, considered as
New Zealand’s only indigenous rodent,
were superseded by the common Norway
species, which arrived ,by ship.
Plump, greyish-white backs, paler
underbodies of about sin., tails the same
length, Mus was possibly introduced by
the Maori along with his dog (kuri).
They were thought to have become
extinct, but recently some have been
found and identified on Little Barrier
Island, a bird-sanctuary 56 miles north
of Auckland. There Mr. and Mrs. J. F.
Watson, D.5.1.R., found many with littefi
of four.
H.W.
THE WILD DUCK LEAVE A
SANCTUARY
There was rain up north arid word came down
Somehow, across the border,
To feathered exiles who stayed in town
Waiting some flying order.
Then, asking neither a yea or nay,
Over the world and away, away
The wild duck went —was it yesterday
Or yester-midnight that saw the splash
When the lake broke into spangles?
Trailing their toes in the water-wash
And rising at right angles
Up where the night-wind shivers and sings,
They came like beggars, they go like kings
Shaking the water-dust from their wings.
By tens and twenties, sixes and sevens
Once they gathered and fled
Out of the February heavens
Where guns were blazing red,
Leaving the laggards to die or drown,
Throwing themselves at daybreak down
On the tenderer mercies of the town.
Now they have left the ordered lawns
The flowery ways and walks
For savage sunsets and surly dawns,
The hazard of eagle-hawks;
By paths of the night, obscure, opaque
Till the stats fan out in a fading wake
Behind the dash of the foremost drake.
Behind tlie flights of the flyrby-nights
Almost at their journey’s end,
Dropping out of glimmering heights
On to some grassy bend,
Some wet lost world of the water-fowl
Where the late bat hawks, and the hunting owl,
And the last impossible bunyips prowl.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


■pOUR kookaburras come to my
A kitchen window-sill every day and
eat meat from my hand. Their
preference is for beef, but three
will eat other meat if beef is
not forthcoming; No. 4 flatly refuses
anything else. The four were lined-up
and I had only liver. No. 1 and No. 2 had
their fill and departed, and still No. 4
had refused to eat. At the last offer he
took the piece, gave me what I can only
describe as a dirty look, hopped the length
of the sill to No. 3, and dropped the
offending morsel in front of him as
though to say, “Here! Have this, too,
since you seem to like it so much! ” Then
he returned to his former place and con-
templation of pie. He finally got a sec-
tion of our dinner-steak. —“Rimutuka.”
* * * *
“Sebak”: A friend with many years of
experience in breeding budgerigars
struck a run of “outs.” Time after time
his birds hatched-out nests of big,
healthy-looking chicks which thrived until
nearly feathered, then died. He had
probed every explanation he could think
of, when another bird-fancier advised:
“Shove some of this in the cages.” He
did and the infant-mortality ceased. But
until I actually saw his budgerigars doing
it I would never have believed that a
bird would poke its tongue out and lick
rock-salt.
* * * *
“S.”: When a bushfire was lately going
through part of Sydney’s Kuringai-
Ghase the “S. M. Herald” reporter an-
nounced that it “killed dozens of koalas,
possums and birds,” while the more
fortunate wallabies “fled across country.”
Later the “Herald’s” famous “Waratah”
said much the same thing. I wonder —not
that I am in favor of starting bushfires
all over the place—how many birds, rep-
tiles and animals do get killed? Obvi-
ously if the wallabies could flee across
country the birds could fly; most of the
fires don’t reach anywhere near the high
branches where the koalas sit; the pos-
sums should be safe enough from both
fire and smoke high up in their hollow
trees; snakes and lizards have rock-
ledges and creeks as alternative refuges ;
and even the ants, I presume, can get
snugly out of reach underground. It
seems reasonable to suppose, when our
trees and wildflowers have learned over
the centuries to recover from the bush-
fires and even to use them for germinat-
ing their seeds, that the animals have also
developed a pretty effective technique
for coping with them. The only charred
skeleton I’ve ever found in the bush
after a fire was—of all unlikely creatures
—a flying-fox: no doubt it blundered out
into the fire half-asleep. v
* * * *
“J. 8.”: He was noted for his testiness,
so when he absentmindedly took the
wrong road out of town the jackeroo
sitting beside him was diffident about
pointing out the mistake. Finally the
’roo ventured: “I think we’re on the
wrong road, Mr. Smith. This looks like
the Sommeriva road to me.” “Ruddy
rot! ” snapped the boss. “I ought to know
the way. I’ve been driving along it for
donkey’s years.” The subsided.
Presently they came to a boundary-fence,
and the old man began to look doubtful.
“That’s funny,” he muttered. “I don’t
remember this fence.” “No, Mr. Smith,”
said the ’roo. “This is the Sommeriva
boundary. I told you we were on the
wrong road.” “Well,” roared the trump,
“why the hell didn’t you convince me?”
* * * *
“Hist.”: The Long Feller had a black
eye. “There’s a bloke on the platform
at Central, Sydney,” he explained, “bails
me up and asks me how far west am I
goin’. I tell him Bourke. It seems he’s
bound for a sidin’ called Bumbelgun, and
asks will I wake him. It seems he’s a
real heavy sleeper. I says okay, seein’
I never sleep much on a train, anyway,
and I got him to show me his possie. I
had a bit of a snooze meself and I’m
on’y half-awake when we lob at Bumbel-
gun. I had a hell of a job gettin’ him off,
what with him being about one per cent,
awake and having a heap of gear, but I
goes back to me seat feelin’ I’ve done me
good deed for the day. It wasn’t till
we’re just pullin’ in to Bourke that the
cow comes up an’ jobs me. Dunno who
the cove was I pushed off at Bumbelgun,
but he couldn’t have been wilder than
this bloke. What a man gets fox doin
good turns! ” .
# * * *
“Saaedi”: When the sea-eagle
dived the gulls scattered, swear-
ing horribly, but the shag, having
perhaps dined immoderately, was un-
able to take-off. It scurried through the
water frenziedly flapping its wings, evad-
ing only by inches the clutching talons,
Three times the great eagle rose to about
60ft. and swooped, and each time the
\ • r
“I found him under a bush bawlin his head off.”
shag repeated its futile efforts to rise.
It could easily have escaped by diving,
but birds have a one-track mind, and the
shag, having decided that it must be air-
borne at all costs, persisted in its flapping
and scrambling tactics until, after a
fourth swoop, the eagle abandoned the
game. Now, did the sea-predator really
aim to make a meal off the shag’s tough
carcass, or was it merely exercising a
sardonic sense of fun? I suspect the
latter, for, though a sense of fun in birds
is far from proved, if the eagle had really
wanted that shag it could certainly have
had shag-dinner.
* * #
“M’Lou”: The transparent stinging
spines of the gympie-gympie, borne
on leaves of dinner-plate size,
are really tiny funnels full of
venom which causes intense agony,
not only about the actual sting but also
in neck-, under-arm- and groin-glands,
Bernard O’Reilly, of Green Mountains,
credits the gympie-tree, one of the largest
in the Green Mountains area, with more
recorded deaths in North Queensland
than even the black-snake. There
are, however, two readily available
antidotes. The jpice of the cunjevoi
is most generally used, but the O’Reillys
proved that the slimy sap of the gympie
itself is far more effective,
%%r\xu. tr™.; uj u aan
. <?* w * w * : « on ’ who ha ? been cel f e ;
was having a meal m a cafe
when a fly fell in his soup. Hon went on
lapping it up. “Fly m your soup, said
his cobber. “Oh,” said Hori, “he orrite.
I’ll just eat round him.”
SIESTA
Midsummer heat and midday sun.
I trudged across ploughed land fordone
To where the carels by Obi Creek
Had made a shade where shade was none....
Beneath the carels of Obi Creek
I found what I had come to seek —
Tranquillity . . .
The faintest buzzing of a bee,
The footfall of the tiniest bird,
The slightest trembling of one tree
Would have been heard.
But no leaf quivered, and no bird
Stirred.
I stretched out . . . solace cool and deep
Calmed me asleep
Where change had ceased and time might be
The quietude of eternity.
QUEENSLAND.
MARTIN HALEY.
Philatelic Hanky-panky
/''VN the Governmental level, there are
many variations of slug-the-collectors
in stamp-rackets. The essence of them
all is to issue as many different stamps
as possible at the least expense.
Changes of design involve the cost of
new printing-plates; changes merely of
color are far more economical. It is
cheap and easy to overprint a set of cur-
rent stamps with the date of some anni-
versary (“revolutions” are popular in
countries that have them), or the name of
a national hero, and the offering can be
spiced by creating a few “errors” (wrong
or missing type in the overprint), or by
letting a few sheets with the overprint
inverted leak-out.
Some countries make a practice of
issuing stamps both with and without per-
forations, thus at one stroke providing
the collector with two sets to buy.
“Miniature sheets” have proved a
winner. Take any stamp in current or
recent use, preferably a handsome com-
memorative, and print a single impres-
sion in the centre of a piece of paper, say,
4in. by sin. Perforate and gum, to make
it look real —and there is your miniature
sheet! Add some sort of inscription as
an ostensible excuse for the issue, an
exhibition or fair or sports-meeting, and
sell at a premium to collectors.
In the 1890’s a gentleman named
Seebeck had a splendid idea. He con-
tracted with a number of South American
republics to supply all their stamps free
of charge, provided they guaranteed at
least an annual change of design, handed
back to him all unused stocks of obsoles-
cent issues, and permitted him to retain
the printing-plates and run off additional
supplies for the philatelic market.
Stamps have attracted the forger almost
since their inception—initially, before
collector-sales became important and col-
lector-prices inflated, to defraud the Post
Office. That game proved hardly worth
while because stamps used in quantity
are of small face-value and the cost of
imitating the Post Office article, suffi-
ciently closely to pass muster, was too
high.
One notably successful such forgery
concerned a la. stamp of Great Britain,
depicting the head of Queen Victoria. It
was marketed in and around the London
Stock Exchange, where Is. stamps were
extensively used on telegrams.
In Australia the Sydney Harbor Bridge
commemorative was forged for postal
usage, but an alert philatelist detected the
forgeries, and the police curtailed the
enterprise.
Philatelists pay good prices for postally
used forgeries, but demand the whole
envelope to put the evidence of postal
usage beyond all doubt.
Collector-forgeries are legion; few of
the early and more valuable issues have
not teen more-or-less successfully forged,
and the equipment of an earnest philate-
list includes a powerful lens and a library
of reference-books. No forgery precisely
reproduces the original, but the differences
are frequently microscopic.
The forger, turning out a product which
should sell for pounds rather than pence,
must (and does) go to infinite trouble to
reproduce not only the design but also
the paper, ink and gum of the original.
Paper, for instance, must be of a type
and texture contemporary with the issue-
date of the original stamp. Forgers have
been known to take a common stamp of
the right period, remove the design by
chemical means, and substitute that of a
rare and valuable stamp. Some forgeries
are further “authenticated” by attaching
them to genuine old letters and adding a
false postmark.
Two philatelic forgers stand out from
the ruck, one for both quality and quan-
tity of output, the other for remarkable
quality.
The first, Fournier, was an out-and-
out forger on a commercial scale. He
operated from Switzerland, and concen-
trated to a great extent on the “classic”
(1840-80) issues of European countries.
Practically all his work was good, some
so highly dangerous that it is apt to turn
up, masquerading as the real thing, in
the collections of philatelists who thought
they knew better. It now has a world-
wide distribution.
The other, a Frenchman, Jean de
Sperati, claimed that he did not make
forgeries but “facsimiles,” which he sold
as such —what subsequent owners did
with them was not his worry. He was
an artist and a craftsman. He lavished
meticulous care on each of his “fac-
similes,” and accomplished some amaz-
ing feats: removing, for example, the
framework round the central design of a-
common stamp, then restoring it upside-
down, thus transforming it into the costly
“error.”
In the course of some 50 years De
Sperati copied about 350 different stamps,
including the Commonwealth’s £2 kanga-
roo-type. On his recent retirement his
stock and equipment was bought by the
British Philatelic Association, which can
be trusted not to continue the business on
its own account. It will establish for
itself, and other similar organisations,
reference-collections of Sperati facsimiles.
The stamp-faker is in some ways more
of a menace than the forger, for he deals
in genuine stamps variously altered. A
chemical change of shade, the removal
or addition of a postmark, or perfora-
tion, or overprint, can make a vast
difference in collector-value.
Philatelists, moreover, are perfection-
ists : they desire stamps free from flaws
and blemishes. A small tear can reduce
value by 75 per cent.
Repairing rare stamps is a skilled trade,
centred mostly in continental Europe ;
it ranges from “invisible mending” of a
tear to the complete rebacking of an
otherwise hopeless cripple. Stamps are
laundered and ironed to remove stains
and creases. Whole postmarks vanish
under chemical treatment, so that com-
mon used stamps become rare unused
ones. Skilful repairs are exceedingly
hard to detect except by use of a violet-
ray lamp, which unfailingly reveals any
tinkering that has been done.
Stamp-dealers (and -collectors) are
neither more nor less honest than the
rest of us. There are a few rogues among
them, and a sprinkling of petty pilferers :
certain sharp practices are more-or-less
winked at, as in most businesses. The
dealer, wholesale or retail, earns, his
bread-and-butter by everyday trading at
a reasonable and competitive profit. If
you take your old collection, or the box
of stamps you found in the attic, to a
reputable dealer, he will offer a fair price
for it and not be worried if you decide
to take it down the arcade to another
shop.
All non-collectors, and most collectors,
have very optimistic ideas about the
value of their stamps. The dealer’s jam
accrues -to him when he makes a scoop,
or a find; when he discovers a rarity in
a job-lot, or when a stamp of which he
fyas a stock suddenly turns out to be in
short supply. Or a citizen appears with
a strip of freak stamps (no perforations,
for example) bought at the post-office for
3 jd.-apiece, and gladly accepts si fiver for
it; the dealer, by virtue of his contacts,
re-sells to a wealthy collector for £25.
It is sometimes said that the sixpenny
packets of stamps sold by stationers to
schoolchildren are fraud at the expense
of the innocent. Admittedly the stamps
in them are virtually valueless (bought by
the packet-makers at a shilling a thou-
sand), but the labor and its cost entailed
in making-up packets of 25 or 50 different
are considerable.
Cheap packets should not be classed
as stamps in the collector sense ; they are
toys, worth their small cost for the passing
pleasure they give.
When Rowland Hill invented the
postage-stamp in 1840 he had nothing
in mind beyond facilitating and cheapen-
ing postal-communication. Could he
attend one of today’s stamp-auctions, and
see the little bits of paper changing hands
for, sometimes, hundreds of pounds
apiece, he might well shake his head
and murmur the mid-Victorian equivalent
of “Nuts!”
Mr. HINGE.


A PLOUGHIN'
task- FORC E
■;.vX;X
Nuffield Universal Tractor
in action, equipped with
4-furrow set plough. This
is one of the many
“approved - after - test”
matched implements avail-
able that speed up your
work . • • make it easier .
w
mm
:
mmm&wk
■
mm
m
m
m
■ S
1*
ma
am
:
im
mi
m
m
mi
■ m
m
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS ?
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered) equipped with 13.50 x 24 rear and
6.00 x 16 front tyres costs only
£1,005 (Cap. City)
At this low cost your Nuffield tractor includes
the following standard equipment: Hydraulic
lift, 3-point linkage, p.t.0., belt pulley, draw-
bar, drawbar extension, seat cushion, canvas
tractor cover, electric starter and horn, head-
light, agricultural rear light, tail and side
lights, heat gauge, hour meter, foot plates,
chaff screens and radiator shutters.
Other tyre sizes available: 11 x 36R, 6.00 x
19F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x 16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x
18F; 11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies
accordingly in price.)
T 1
1 UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor 3t Implement
Division, Box 78, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor
Range and “Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME
ADDRESS
Place X in this square, if for school project.
.£*.J
BMC!
NT45.32
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield,
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
CORPORATIQNJAU ST RALi Aj FT Y. LTdT|
Business, Robbery, Etc.
OIL, MINERALS AND GEOLOGY
NEARLY every generation of
Australians has had its
mining boom. In present memory
there was the gold boom of the
1930’5, and, more recently, the
oil and uranium booms. With
each boom, as speculators watch
Stock Exchange quotations with
an eye to profit, they are vaguely
puzzled by mining terms and
geological references ; but their
geological research usually ends
in frustration, and rarely does
their experience go very far
beyond the monetary profit or
loss stage.
Most of us have wondered
why gold occurs in certain types
of rock, more especially quartz.
In Elements of Geology (Uni-
versity of Western Australia
Press), the authors (E. de C.
Clarke, R. T. Prider and C.
Teichert) point out that many
mineral deposits of economic
value have been formed by the
action of water circulating
through the crust of the earth
(the lithosphere) and carrying in
solution a variety of substances.
The commonest and most
abundant of these is silica, so
that “many economic mineral
deposits formed by the agency of
underground water are in quartz-
veins, or quartz-beefs as they
are usually called in Australia.”
Gold and Quartz
The authors go on: “In
Western Australia many valu-
able gold-bearing deposits occur
as quartz-reefs ; perhaps the best-
known is the Great Fingall reef
at Day Dawn, near Cue, in the
Murchison Region. This reef
outcropped over a distance of
about 2000 ft.; underground it
varied greatly in size—in a few
places it was as much as 40ft.
wide, in others it narrowed to
two or three feet or even pinched
out altogether, so that at some
levels it persisted for as much
as 2600 ft„ while at others its
length was very much less. Its
average dip is 60 degrees to the
s.-w., and it has been worked
in some places to a vertical depth
of 2600 ft. The Great Fingall
reef was mined almost uninter-
ruptedly from 1892 to 1924, and
has yielded 1,185,5300 z. of gold
and 169,2 lOoz. silver from
1,165,708 tons of ore.”
Greenstone
Similarly of interest: “The
greater part of the Western Aus-
tralian goldfields is composed of
rocks belonging to the Kal-
goorlie-Yilgarn System One
component of this is ‘greenstone,’
which occurs in elongated
patches, generally trending
n.-n.-w. The greenstones are in
part ancient lavas and frag-
mental basaltic volcanic rocks,
in part they are intrusive rocks ;
most of them are related to
basalt [volcanic rock]. 'ln most
places they are much altered and
therefore are metamorphic rocks,
but in other places they still
show by such features as pillow-
structure that they are lavas,
many of them being probably
submarine. All the chief [W.A.]
goldmining centres are on these
greenstone patches.”
How Oil Occurs
Perhaps gold at present is not
such an interesting mineral as
oil. Some comments of the
authors on oil-occurrence:
“Petroleum and natural gas are
found in quantity only in sedi-
mentary rocks where they may
fill the interstices of porous beds
such as sandstones. Owing to the
rounding of the grains of which
sandstones are composed there
are spaces between the grains in
which gas or water or oil can
be held, and the greater the
porosity of a bed the greater
the amount of these substances
it can hold. Large accumulations
of oil have also been found in
cavernous limestones and even
in shales that are traversed by
many cracks and fissures.”
In order to preserve the oil in
such porous beds, it is explained,
it is necessary that the oil-bear-
ing stratum should be sand-
wiched between impervious
layers which prevent the escape
of the oil into the neighboring
rocks. In most localities oil is
associated with gas and saline
water; the distribution of the
three substances depends on the
arrangement and character of
the beds in which they occur.
If the beds are horizontal, and
uniform in texture, the oil and
gas will be dispersed evenly and
can’t accumulate in any parti-
cular place. If, however, the oil-
bearing bed is folded, a separa-
tion of gas, oil and water,
according to specific gravity, will
take place and gas will accumu-
late in the highest parts
of the anticlines (or arches);
oil will accumulate below the
gas, and water in the
synclines (or troughs). If the
rocks contain no water, the oil
will be free to gravitate towards
the synclines, but this is a com-
paratively rare case.
Oil-pools
Not only anticlines and syn-
clines, but any structure that pro-
vides a trap for the oil may lead
to the formation of ap oil-pool
—i.e., a mass of rock the spaces in
which are partly or wholly filled
with oil in sufficient quantity to
be of economic value. An oil-
pool is not, as its name would
imply, a large subterranean
cavity filled with oil.
An oil-pool, the authors em-
phasise, is thus the result of two
entirely - independent events—
firstly, the accumulation of oil
in some quantity in a porous
layer ; secondly, the formation of
such structures and textures as
favor the concentration and re-
tention of that oil in an oil-
pool. Sites for oil-bores can
therefore only be selected after
very thorough investigation of
the geology of an area.
It is almost always necessary
to line or case a borehole put
down for oil with an iron tube to
prevent leakage into it of water
from the sides and also to pre-
vent caving, for in nearly all
oilfields the strata are soft, and,
in some, quite incoherent.
“Gushers”
When the oil-bearing stratum
is tapped, the oil accompanied
by gas generally rises to the sur-
face —the well is said to “gush.”
The cause of gushing is partly
expansion of the gaseous hydro-
carbons on relief of pressure,
just as a sodarwater bottle
gushes when the top is quickly
removed, but in some structures
it is at least partly due to the
hydrostatic pressure of the water
that lies under the oil. In some
instances the gushing is so
violent that, if preparation has
not been made to cope with it,
the boring-tools, cable, etc., will
be blown out of the bore, the
surface-plant will be damaged
and much oil will be lost.
All over the world, it is worth
noting, supplies of any size have
been found only in sedimentary
rock of Palaeozoic or later age.
It is true that small quantities
of petroleum have been found
in metamorphic or even in
igneous rocks, but the oil has
soaked into joints, cleavage-
planes, etc., in these rocks from
neighboring sediments which
may since have been almost en-
tirely removed by erosion, mak-
ing the oil appear to have no
possible source but the rocks in
which it occurs. Therefore, it
is clear that search for oilfields
is warranted only in areas con-
sisting of sedimentary rocks.
Sources of Oil
It is now generally agreed
that petroliferous substances
have been formed by the altera-
tion of organic remains. Some
writers regard animal-matter,
others regard plant-matter, as
the main source of petroleum.
Others, again, consider that the
remains of both plants and
animals have contributed in
varying proportions to the
world’s stock of oil.
The origin of oil has not yet
been completely solved. It is,
however, rather generally agreed
that the source-materials of oil
are marine sapropels: that is,
organic matter which was de-
posited in the sea under condi-
tions of almost complete ex-
clusion of oxygen. “Sapropel”
may also form in lakes, but
apparently such deposits have
not been large enough to per-
mit the accumulation of com-
mercial quantities of petroleum.
There are proofs that in many
oilfields the oil does not occur
in the beds in which -it origi-
nated. It must have migrated
from its source-beds to the beds
in which it is now found.
Oil in W,A.
In the opinion of the authors,
the alleged occurrence of “oil
indications” has repeatedly
attracted undue interest in
Western Australia, as in many
other parts of the world. It
must be remembered that no
“indication” gives any hint as
to the quantity of oil under-
ground, and that indications
are not generally situated
directly above the oil-pool.
In oilfields composed of
Palaeozoic or Mesozoic rocks,
surface - indications are not
usually as abundant as in fields
of Tertiary age. The reason is
that surface - indications are
caused by some of the pet-
roliferous substances escaping,
and the longer this leakage has


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION.
EttablUhed 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
KTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. Jt. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WAUtER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.1268. isc
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
UA
♦f
*T
no o
a
/ / /
«>
'4
•+
4
U/
<D
iron
JUjCaip
tx?
■
a win
010 «
0 0
o a
5
Vj
SERVICE^
4
0
CXJ
-jm~
-JtVTL:
10-y
0
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
been going on the less oil will be
left underground. Consequently,
an area composed of rocks
geologically rather old and with
many surface-indications will
probably have lost most of its
oil and is unlikely to be a big
producer.
The book discusses briefly oil-
prospects in each State of the
Commonwealth. It also makes
this general remark: “There has
been a great waste of money and
effort in many parts of the
world, including Australia, in
drilling for oil in regions where
there is no good reason to think
that it could occur, in payable
quantities at any rate. There
are broadly reliable geological
maps of most regions, a glance
at which should enable one to
condemn wide areas as hopeless
for oil. However, to appraise
the relative hopefulness of areas
composed at the surface of sedi-
mentary rocks, more detailed
knowledge than can be gained
from a glance at general geo-
logical maps is necessary. The
lithology and structure of the
rocks is of primary importance ;
the age is of much less moment.”
In making a selection of items
from Elements of Geology in
this review The Bulletin has
concentrated on matters of in-
terest at the present time. But,
overall, the book itself is more
concerned with geological time.
It deals with the science of
geology generally, and more par-
ticularly with that of Australia ;
it is written specifically for West
Australian students. But any
Australian interested in the crust
of his native land will find it a
most interesting book, easy to
read and comprehend, and illus-
trated copiously. Its published
price is 40s.
The New Savings-banks
January 19 two new
savings - banks commenced
business in Australia, the day
after their authorisation to open
came from Canberra. The
public’s response was spectacular.
The Bank of New South
Wales Savings Bank, Ltd.,
has opened for business in 778
branches and agencies in N.S.W.,
the A.C.T., Victoria, Queens-
land, W.A., the Northern
Territory, Papua and New
Guinea.
The A.N.Z. Savings Bank,
Ltd., commenced in all States
except S.A. and Tasmania, and
will operate also in the A.C.T.
and the Northern Territory.
After consultation with the
trading-banks, five main condi-
tions were imposed by the Com-
monwealth Government before
authorising the new savings-
banks to commence business.
These conditions were:
(1) Apart from cash and
moneys on deposit with other
banks, the new savings-banks
may invest depositors’ funds
only in:
Commonwealth and State Govern-
ment securities;
Securities of an authority consti-
tuted by or under Commonwealth
or State Act of Parliament;
Loans to a building-society the
repayment'of which is guaranteed by
the Commonwealth or a State; loans
for housing or other purposes on
the security of land.
(2) The new banks must at all
times hold 70 p.c. of depositors’
funds in cash, plus money on
deposit with the central bank,
plus securities of the first and
second types in the first
condition.
(5) The new banks must at all
times hold at least 10 p.c. of
depositors’ funds in Common-
wealth Treasury bills, plus
money on deposit with the
central bank. (This 10 p.c. is
apparently part of the foregoing
70 p.c.)
(O The new banks may not
accept deposits from a trading or
profit-making company or body.
(5) The new savings-banks
may not allow an account, other
than an account of a local
authority, friendly-society, co-
operative society or any other
society, body or club, to be
operated on by cheque.
Sir Arthur Fadden, in giving
the Treasury’s consent, said that
in addition to the formal condi-
tions specified in the authorities,
and understanding has been
reached regarding certain other
arrangements for the conduct of
business by the new savings-
banks. These arrangements
relate to the furnishing of
statistics, observance of approved
interest-rates, and consultation
with the central bank on
investment policy.
The new savings-bank will pay
depositors the same rate of
interest as the Commonwealth
Savings Bank —2\ p.c. on
deposits up to £5OO, and U p.c.
between £5Ol and £l5OO.
The chairman of the Bank of
N.S.W., Sir Leslie Morshead,
said that the creation of the
B. Savings Bank was a
major step towards the preser-
vation of the principle of free
enterprise in banking in Aus-
tralia. He hoped that an upsurge
in savings-bank activity would
lead to greater lending for home-
building purposes.
The National of Australasia,
the C. 8.5., the E., S. & A. and the
C. so far haven’t entered the
savings-bank field. But the
National and the E., S. & A. have
taken speedy steps in the hire-
purchase business, where a boom
has been in progress. The
C.B.S. is contemplating opening
a savings-bank.
The launching-out of the
’Wales —Australia’s oldest bank
—and the A.N.Z. in the savings-
bank business is refreshing to
see. It should provide facilities
for all types of banking service
required by one family,, and
should establish a means of intro-
ducing the youthful savings-bank
depositor to the convenience of
the trading-bank current-account
as he grows older.
A disability to be borne by the
new savings-banks is that in some
States stamp-duty has to be paid
on withdrawals.
The ’Wales Issue
THE one-for-three new issue of
£2O shares (with a £2O
liability in the case of a wind-up)
by the Bank of N. S. Wales,
carrying a premium of £5 a share,
was mentioned in last week’s
Bulletin.
The issue, the board said, was
not for the purpose of financing
the new savings-bank, but to
sustain liquidity and to maintain
the ratio of shareholders’ funds
to assets employed.
The old shares rose following
the announcement, then slipped
back to £36 10s. again.
On the present 9 p.c. div.
basis, ’Wales scrip, after exercis-
ing the rights, would give a yield
of £5 7s. per cent.
No div.-increment from the
savings-bank venture which
takes the shape of a subsidiary
company can be expected for
many years to come.
With each new issue of capital
the traditional invisible strength
in B.N.S.W. assets becomes less
per share, the old being diluted
to some extent by the new. But
that undisclosed strength in
present-day value of old free-
holds, etc., must still be
prodigious. <
Tancred Bros.
-REGISTRATION of Tancred
Bros. Industries, Ltd., took
place in Sydney last week.
Nominal capital is £2,500,000 in
10s. shares, and of these 593,998
will be offered to the public at
par. Part of the remainder will
be issued to acquire Tancred
Bros. Pty., Ltd., meat-processors.
Paid capital to commence will be
£850,000. - ;
The new issue has been under-
written by Hordern, Utz and
Bode, of Sydney ’Change, and
inquiry for the scrip has already
been keen, though asset-backing
and earning-power have not yet
been made public.
“Gussies”
AN reports that Great
Universal Stores, Ltd.
(“Gussies,” the 900-store U.K.
and overseas chain), were coming
to Australia the ss. ord. shares
in David Murray Holdings, Ltd.,
spurted from 10s. to around 14s.
in Adelaide. But market rumors
of approaches to Murray’s
lacked official confirmation,
although “don’t sell” was the
advice from Murray’s to its
shareholders. The Murray chain
is of 30 retail-credit stores in S.A.
and Victoria. The co. has a
paid capital of £700,250, of
which £575,250 is in ss. ords.
Pike’s and Leviathan
PIKE BROS., Ltd., the old-
established high-class men’s-
wear store in Brisbane, is merg-
ing with Leviathan, Ltd., of Mel-
bourne. Leviathan will issue
shares in exchange for Pike scrip,
but Pike Bros, will continue to
trade under its own name and
directorship. Pike’s capital is
£lOB,OOO, Leviathan’s £313,000,
of which £238,250 is in ss. ords.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit
v-*
'y*
•iVBO'
«T> 7
s4v'
mi
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
, this experience and
obtain for yout
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
F, H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond J. R . Faviell
F. B. Fleming G. B. Kater
Manager: IS. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officer:
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Cb. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT. 101.15
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
F. W. Hughes Industries, Ltd.
TT was in October, 1951, just after wool-
-*• prices reached their record peak, that
this big holding co. took over the pas-
toral, textile and meat interests, etc.,
which had been built up during the pre-
ceding 60-odd years by F. W. Hughes,
who died in October, 1950. It bought
all the £566,312 of paid capital (61,308
4 p.c. prefs. and 505,004 ords.) in F. W.
Hughes Pty. for £4,061,308, paying
£2,900,000 in its own f.-p. £1 shares and
£1,161,308 in cash. To meet the cash
payment and provide more working
capital, the public was offered 1,250,000
new £1 shares at par, making paid capital
£4,150,000. Net assets taken over had a
book-value of £3,043,607 at June 30,
1951, and, on the basis of independent
valuations, were reckoned to be worth at
least £5,829,518. Values, however, are
relative things which go up or down
according to the factors influencing them.
The organisation—parent holding co.
and a dozen subsidiary and sub-
subsidiary cos. —owns eight pastoral
properties, fellmongering works, a wool-
combing and -spinning mill, a worsted
weaving-mill, a wholesale meat-distribut-
ing business and a meat-canning co. The
three main factors influencing group
profits are therefore the level of wool-
prices, seasonal influences, conditions in
the textile- and meat-trades, and the trend
of costs.
The following table shows what
happened in connection with the Austra-
lian wool-clip over the last eight years:
Average Average
Yr.. Bales, Value, per lb., Yr.,Bales, Value, per lb.,
Jne.,’ooo. £’ooo. Pence. Jne.,’ooo. £’ooo. Pence.
’48..3,009 155,547 39.50 ’52..3,358 807,787 72.42
’49 3,289 194,589 48.07 ’53..3,851 404,756 81.80
’50..3,515 286,628 63.85 ’54..3,804 390,714 81.50
’51..3,520 636,330 144.19 ’55..3,926 352,691 70.88
During this period seasonal condi-
tions have been good to fair, as the
volume of the clip shows. Average price
for the six months to December 31 last
had dropped to 59.15 d. per lb. Mean-
while costs have continued to climb. Con-
ditions in the meat-trade generally have
been satisfactory, though exports of
canned meats to the U.K. have lately
eased under pressure of competition. The
textile section has been the one
hardest hit, due to the continued
fall in wool-prices and the time-
lag between purchase of the raw
material and sale of the finished product,
to keen competition, aggregated to heavy
imports, cushioned recently by import-
restrictions and to some out-of-date plant.
For the year to June 30 last the overall
adverse market and financial develop-
ments outweighed any sectional gains,
and there was a sharp drop of £179,098
(51.2 p.c.) in declared net earnings of the
group:
F. W. Hushes Industries and Subsidiaries,
Year, To Re- Re-
June Profit. / Dividend N serves. serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
1952.. 324.313 6 p.c. = 294,000 75,313 2,458,064
Unexplained reduction, £llOB .. 2,456,956
1953. .373,512 6 p.c. = 294,000 124,512 2,581,468
From tax reserve, £12,247 .. .. 2,693,715
Unexplained addition, £2401 .. 2,596,116
1954 347,613 6 p.c. = 294,000 98,513 2,694,629
Unexplained addition, £58,955 .. 2,753,584
1955.. 168,415 4 p.c. = 166,000 2,415 2,755,999
* Subject to £3,505,153 excess cost shares in sub-
sidiaries over their par value.
And the £168,415 of profit—written
after allowing £70,866 (up £6664) for
depreciation and £47,123 (down £123,049)
for taxation—was not all that it looked
either, because an inner stock-reserve of
£70,000 was “absorbed into the figures
presented.” On the other hand there was
an unexplained addition of £58,955 to
general reserves. The £168,415 was a
shade over 4 p.c. von capital as against
8.4, 9 and 7.8 p.c. back to 1952. The div.,
steady at 6 p.c. for the three preceding
years, was reduced to 4 p.c. On present
indications net earnings for the current
term are not likely to show much, if any,
improvement, despite the excellence of
seasonal conditions.
During the next few years the textile
section is to be reorganised, and up-to-
date plant and equipment installed in the
top-making, spinning and fellmongering
sections —the weaving plant is - claimed
to be modern. The estimated cost is not
mentioned, but the co. has £700,000 which
it invested in Commonwealth bonds fol-
lowing resumption of portion of Kooba
station in June, 1954. The net reduction
in the book-value of pastoral properties
for the year was £376,445. Any profit
on the resumption was passed to inner
reserves.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the finances. The year’s improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,673,443) was £64,349, and, when the
books closed, there was no more than
ss. 1 Id. belonging to mortgagees, the bank
and sundry creditors in the business for
every £ of net tangible assets belonging
to shareholders:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955.
Paid capital £4,150,000 £4,150,000
Reserves ... .. .. 2,694,629 2,755,999
Depreciation .. .. .. 955,208 1,016,487
Outside interests .. .. 6,475 6,624
Mortgages .. .. .. 306,220 306,179
Overdraft .. .. .. 247,794 414,307
Creditors 152,091 183,702
Tax provision .. .. . . 338,101 46,593
Final div 124,500 83,000
Suspense accountsf .. .. 124,722 88,299
£9,099,740 £9,045,195
Freeholds, etc. .. .. 1,567,047 1,634,746
Station properties .. .. 1,125,018 1,115,768
Shares other cos. .. .. 9,869 10,869
Stocks 1,698,836 1,597,286
Debtors 493,817 481,373
Govt, securities .. .. 7.00,000 700,000
Intangibles* .. .. .. 3,605,153 8,505,153
£9,099,740 £9,045,195
t Due to differences in balancing dates.
* Excess Cost of shares in subsidiaries over their par
value.
To reduce tax-commitrtients (down
£292,503) and add £67,699 to freeholds,
etc., the debt to the bank was
increased by £166,513, and stocks
were reduced by £101,550, of which
£70,000 was on account of the trans-
fer from inner reserves already
referred to. Stocks were “reasonably
valued in relation to current wool-prices,”
the chairman recently said.
The market for the f.-p. £1 shares
eased steadily from 18s. lOd. early in
1955 to 12s. 6d. last week. At the lower
figure the return is 6.4 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is 16s. 4d.
—the £2,755,999 of reserves is subject to
£3,505,153 by which the cost of shares
in subsidiaries exceeds their par-value.
Kauri Timber Co.
r_ pHE board of this old-established and
well-entrenched timber-milling and
-distribution organisation—largest thing
of its kind in Australasia —has come in
for some legitimate criticism on two
counts: (1) its ultra-cautious dividend
policy, and (2) bad timing of the co.’s
new share-issue.
Ord. divs. averaged 5.1 p.c. for the 17
years to 1949 (lowest 2 p.c. and highest
6i p.c.), with not very wide margins.
During the six years to the close of last
accounts the business expanded rapidly,
by absorptions and otherwise, and net
earnings of the group (after deducting
outside shareholders’ proportion) aver-
aged £300,481. That was enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 36.8 p.c. on the
£750,000 of ord. capital. The div., how-
ever, was kept steady at 8 p.c. At the
annual meeting last month shareholders,
while acknowledging the soundness of
financing expansion partly out of surplus
earnings, thought an 8 p.c. distribution
too cautious to be fair to the owners of
the business in the circumstances, and
said so. The chairman promised that the
board would take heed of what had been
said, and go into the question of a lift
in the div. There the matter stands for
the present.
To help finance further expansion
those on the ord. register at November
24 last were offered 750,000 new £1 ords.
at par, one for one —-first time the ord.
capital has been increased in the last 35
years. The money is payable in full by
January 30, the date having been ex-
tended from December 22 as originally
fixed. What perplexed shareholders was
the board’s decision to make the offer at
a time when seasonal influences cause in-
vestors to button-up and the market to
lack strength.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords. rose from
345. early in 1955 to 38s. cum rights to
the new issue, giving the scrip an ex-
rights value of 295. 2d. Actually the
shares sold around 255. ex rights early in
December. The figure has since
strengthened to 295., giving a return of
5.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or 6.9 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. distribution. The rights,
which had a theoretical value of Bs. 4d.,
sold as low as 4s. 4d. in December, but
recently strengthened to around 7s. In-
cluding the new capital, net tangible
cover is 395. lid. per ord. share.
Post-war expansion was financed also
from 5 p.c. pref. (£500,000) and 4 p.c.
debenture (£715,000) moneys, which have
earned a lot more than their keep, and
are redeemable during the periods 1955-
59 and 1962-67 respectively. At the close
of last accounts reserves for the redemp-
tion of pref. and debenture capital
totalled £288,422, and £33,000 of pref.
capital had been redeemed. At an early
date it is proposed to make “a substantial
issue of reasonably-long-term notes” on
terms and conditions yet to be an-
nounced. The money is needed to lighten
the overdraft and provide more working
capital.
There was an all-round increase in
turnover last term, as well as some ad-
justments to selling-prices to coyer cost-
increases. The spring in net earnings was
£92,401:
KAURI TIMBER & SUBSIDIARIES.t
r —Dividends—To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Pref.Ord. Total, serves. serves.*
£ £ £ &
1951. .382,123 5 8 85,000 297,123 607,421
To taxation, £5311 .. . . •• 606,110
. Capital profit, £3844 .. .. .. 605,954
Added reserves, £85,337 .. .. 691,291
Added intangibles, £366,225 .. 325,066
1952. .281,109 6 8 85,000 196,109 621,175
Tax overprovided, £85,977 .. .. 657,152
Fire insurance recovered, etc.,
£86,363 643,515
Net addition reserves, £87,500 .. 731,015
1953.. 170,276 6 8 85,000 86,276 816,291
Tax overprovided, £ 1899 .. .. 818,190
Net addition reserves, £123,260 .. 941,450
1954. .321,872 6 8 85,000 236,872 1,178,322
Tax overprovided, £1383 .. .. 1,179,705
Net addition reserves, £26,484 .. 1,206,189
Added intangibles, £38,946 .. 1,167,243
1955. .414,273 5 8 85,000 325,274 1,492,516
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
* After deducting intangibles, £918,299 at 30/6/’55.
The record £414,273 of profit covered the
pref. div. and 51.9 p.c. on the £750,000
of ord. capital, or 25.9 p.c. on ord. capital
as it will stand after all the money on the
new issue is in, which makes no allow-
ance whatever for any return from the
new capital. On shareholders’ net tan-
gible funds, the year’s profit was a
healthy 15.2 p.c. A lift in the ord. div.
to 10 p.c. would, therefore, amount to no
more than prudent conservatism on the
part of the board.
The year’s growth in the book-value
of fixed assets was £217,467, in stocks
£494,622 and book-debts £92,720:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,217,000
Reserves .. .. 1,692,675 2,057,675 2,410,815
Outside interests.. 563,687 589,197 658,159
Debentures .. 715,000 715,000 720,000
Overdraft .. 2,494,223 1,946,489 2,280,275
Sundry creditors* 898,099 1,041,883 1,252,761
Inter-co. suspense 55,129 30,682
Final divs. .. 37,500 37,500 37,500
£7,651,184 £7,692,873 £8,607,192
Properties .. 1,207,434 1,252,638 1,353,555
Plant, etc. . . 1,056,184 1,083,091 1,199,641
Shares in other cos. 84,602 84,328 67,951
Stocks 3,019,540 2,769,639 3,264,261
Debtors . . .. 1,268,231 1,419,217 1,511,937
Inter-co. suspense.. 20,895
Cash, etc. .. 118,014 204,607 291,548
Intangibles .'. 87 6,38 4 8 7 9,35 3 918,299
£7,651,184 £7,692,873 £8,607,192
* Includes provision for taxation.
The already large overdraft was further
increased by £333,786, and the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., by
£210,787. The year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£746,528) was
£149,066. When the books closed there
was 235. sd. belonging to debenture-
holders, the bank and sundry creditors,
etc., in the business for every £ owned by
shareholders, including intangibles.
Allan and Stark, Ltd.
THIS well-handled Brisbane retailer,
whose modern department-store
runs through one of the busy Queen-
Adelaide-street blocks, was not involved
ini the recent hurly-burly of take-over
bids in the northern capital, where Finney
Isles, Ltd., passed to David Jones, Ltd.,
of Sydney, the unsuccessful bidder being
Myer Emporium, Ltd., of Melbourne,
which later acquired McWhirters' large
store at the Valley end of the city.
The vigorous management, however,
has adopted an enterprising policy of
development, which includes opening up
a large new single-storied retail store and
shopping-centre in the suburb of Cherm-
side, where an entire block of land has
been acquired for the purpose. It is pro-
posed to spend over £630,000 on the pro-
ject, which will include a number of small
selling-units, or shops, and ample parking-
space for car-owning shoppers is to be
provided. The idea is to broaden service
to the customer, whose varied needs, or
most of them, are to be supplied within
a compact area. This is in step with
modem retailing trends in America and
elsewhere overseas.
To help finance the work, those on the
register (pref. and ord.) at. January 14
last were offered 505,000 new £1 ords.
at par, one for one. Immediately preced-
ing this offer, holders of the 105,000 £1
6 p.c. prefs. in Allan and Stark Properties,
Ltd., were asked to exchange their hold-
ings for a like number of Allan and
Stark’s £1 6 p.c. participating prefs.,
which would be entitled to their propor-
tion of the new ord. issue. The new ord.
shares are payable ss. each application
and allotment (Feb. 6), and the balance
in two calls of ss. each at intervals of not
less than three months. When all the
cash is in, and assuming that all pref.
shares in the property co. are converted,
paid capital (£400,000 at July 31 last) will
become £1,010,000 in 155,000 6 p.c. prefs.
and 855,000 ords. The prefs. are entitled
to participate point for point with the
ords. after the latter have had 10 p.c.,
but do not share in surplus assets.
On the basis of last term’s distributions
(8| p.c. prefs. and 12| p.c. ords., of
which 2\ p.c. in each case was labelled
bonus) dividends would then call for
£16,165 more profit than was claimed
for the year to July 31, 1955. The market,
which doesn’t expect the bonus to be
repeated, prices the ords at 325. to return
6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Last
reported sale of the prefs. was at 21s. 6d.
to yield 5.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. The rights,
which recently sold as low as 3s. 2d.,
making total cost per share (including


Professional Engagements
Exploration Engineer
ENTERPRISE EXPLORATION 00. PTY.
LTD., a subsidiary of Consolidated Zinc
Pty. Ltd., requires the services of an
Exploration Engineer as Manager for its
operations in the Northern Territory.
The applicant should preferably hold a
degree or diploma in Mining, Civil or
Mechanical Engineering with managerial
experience, a general knowledge of
mining, diamond, percussion and rotary
drilling, the operation and maintenance
of all types of vehicles and the organisa-
tion of field activities.
A liberal salary, commensurate with the
ability of the appointee is offered for
the position, a comfortable furnished
house being available in Darwin for a
married man.
The appointee will also be eligible for
participation in Provident Fund, sickness
benefits, etc., sponsored by the Company.
Further details may be obtained by
writing to—
The Secretary,
ENTERPRISE EXPRORATION CO.
PTY. LTD.,
Box 384 D, G.P.0., Melbourne,
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
.
gHgpi
iill
■ ■ I
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Roa<T,
Camperdown
Agents for
Bapld Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
HE HAS
. . . BUT UK
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERB
acts like a hand
■when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
•with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
HARRISKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3e), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Abvt.
331AJ3 S'
3dII
AUSTRALIAN MEIROPOUIANIIFI
assurance co.jLm
The Metropolitan Building,
Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
Since 1895 —al-
ways up to date
with all forms of
life and accident
policies.
VACANT POSSESSION
CITY OF BRISBANE
Under instructions from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
On behalf of the TRUSTEES.
FREEHOLD PROPERTY WITH FRONTAGES
to QUEEN & ADELAIDE STREETS—
THE TWO MAIN STREETS OF BRISBANE.
Situated in the Very Heart of Brisbane's Commercial Centre
33ft. frontage to Both Streets —full depth of 297 ft.
Solid Brick Building of Basement, Ground and First Floors.
Ideal for an Arcade, Showrooms, Commercial Offices, etc.
A Rare Opportunity to Obtain a City Property with
Vacant Possession.
TO BE AUCTIONED THURSDAY, 23rd FEB.,
at 11 a.m. in our AUCTION ROOM.
Brochure and full details available from:—
SHARP & MUSGRAVE PTY., LTD.,
Auctioneers, 329 Queen St., Brisbane. 'Phone FA 1571.
AUTOMOBILE ADVANCE AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales 1925)
Registered Offices 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
fMi AT PAR
OF mo, MO
commm
micußiD mm
CURRENCY - - - SIX YEARS
The Notes are repayable on 31st December, 1961, by
the allotment to Noteholders of two fully paid 5/-
Ordinary Shares for every 10/- Note held.
NOW OPEN
Prospectus and Application Forms obtainable from:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
AND MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
Underwriters:
lAN POTTER & CO.
860 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
81 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
for public information only. This is not a Prospectus or an advertisement of m
Prospectus, and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe for the Notes
mentioned herein.
ipis.ta
brokerage) 235. 6d., are worth
consideration, even allowing for
early dividend differences. In-
cluding the new capital, net
tangible cover is £lO 19s. Id.
prefs. and 365. Id. ords.
Shareholders are now reaping
the benefits of the board’s post-
war policy of keeping the div.
moderate and using surplus earn-
ings to enlarge and brighten the
store and improve shopping
facilities for customers. Turn-
over, which has increased by
over 30 p.c. since 1951, reached
£2,657,618 (up £145,418) last
term. After making generous
provisions for depreciation
(£25,864, up £5075) and taxation
(£60,000, up £10,000), the net
result was £21,044 stronger at
£103,885:
y Dividends,
Pref. Re*
Jly.,Profit. 6 p.c. * Ord. \ serves.
& & £ £
’51.. 79,587 3000 8$ p.c.=28,250 407,268
To staff bonus, £14,000 .. 393,268
Realisation assets,. £31,444 ..424,712
’52.. 56,399 3000 6 p.C.=21,000 457,111
Tax overprovided, £25,000 ..482,111
’53.. 65,076 3000 9 p.c. =31,500 512,687
To staff bonus, £5500 .. 507,187
’54.. 82,841 3000 10 p.c. =35,000 552,028
To staff bonus, £9500 ..542,528
8i p.c. ,
’55..103,885 4250 12$ p.c.=43,750 598.413
To staff bonus, £10,300 .. 588,113
After paying the pref. div., the
balance of last term’s profit was
28.4 p.c. on the £350,000 of ord.
capital as against 22.8, 17.7, 15.8,
23 and 29 p.c. back to 1950. The
addition of a 2| p.c. bonus to
both pref. and ord. divs. was thus
a comfortable matter. The ord.
distribution climbed, by irregular
steps, from 2£ p.c. in 1938 to
10 p.c. in 19.54, On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) last term’s profit was
10.5 p.c., which augurs well for
maintenance of 10 p.c. to the
ords. on the increased capital.
Further improvements to the
store are reflected in the year’s
net addition of £36,663 to plant:
Paid capital— 1954. 1956.
Pref £50,000 £50,000
Ord 350,000 850,000
Reserves .. .. 642,527 588,112
Overdraft .. .. 6,178 66.621
Tax provision ~ 67,531 79,284
Creditors, etc. .. 210,328 193,493
Final div. .. 36,500 46,500
£1,262,064 £1,364,010
Freeholds .. .. 255,048 250,945
Plant .. .. 184,373 221,036
Shares .. .. 108,394 108,394
Stock .. .. 572,059 620,620
Debtors .. .. 135,809 157,754
Cash, etc 6,381 5,261
£1,262,064 £1,364,010
The growth of £48,561 in stocks
was partly a hedge against
import-restrictions. Tlie addition
of £21,945 to book-debts reflects
bigger trading. .To meet the
outlay and snip £16,835 off the
amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £51,443.
Altogether it is a balanced and
sound financial structure.
Austral Malay Tin Group
OF the three operating cos. in
this well-handled group,
Austral Amalgamated (Malaya)
is the star performer and the most
promising. The other two,
Pungkah (West Thailand) and
Thabawleik (Lower Burma), hav-
ing nearly worked out their virgin
ground, are operating largely in
tailings. A fourth co., Kampong
Kamunting (Malaya), has applied
for a mining lease of 233 acres
in Kedah, and its dredge, which
has been on a care-and-main-
tenance basis, is being recondi-
tioned to dig the deeper ground.
Austral Malay Tin
This is the prospecting co. for
the group, and is secretary and
manager for the operating cos., in
which it also holds share-interests.
Paid capital is £50,000 in 10s.
shares. Last term Is. a share (4s.
previous year) was paid, followed
by another Is. on September 9,
1955 ; all subject to Malayan
income tax of 30 p.c. Better
can be expected when the
Amalgamated co.’s two new
dredges get into full swing.
A couple of low-grade and deep-
digging areas in Perak are being
close-bored, and ground in
Johore is being tested. The co.’s
scrip, which sold at 395. 6d. in
December last, recently fetched
50s.
Austral Amalgamated Tin
The co., which has a paid
capital of £492,307 in ss. shares,
owns four separate dredging pro-
perties. The one at Asam
Kumbang is worked on a tribute
basis. At Sungkai full-scale pro-
duction began only two months
before the books were ruled off
at June 30 last. During this
period 380,000 c.y. of 0.271 b.
ground were handled at a cost of
12.17 d. per yard for 46.32 tons
t.o.
On the Ulu Yam and Puchong
leases dredge performances
compare as follows:
Ulu Yam—
Concen- Av. Overall
Year to Treated, trates, Per C.y.. Cost,
June 30. C.y. Tons. Lbs. C.y.
1954. .1,609.000 351.7 0.49 17.01 d.
1955. .2,311,000 493.6 0.48 15.00 d.
Puchong—
-1954. .4,442,000 758.1 0.38 11.54 d.
1955. .4,231,000 869.5 0.46 12.44 d.
At Ulu Yam tough clay and an
uneven bottom affected dredgings
and recoveries during the latter
half of the term. At Puchong
No. 2 dredge (bought from
Austral N.Z., Ltd.) was due to
make a trial run at the end of
1955.
The ore from all dredges
averaged £702 per ton metallic
tin, of which overall costs made
off with £402. After allowing
for depreciation (£56,546, up
£16,802) and taxation (£47,813,
down £6893), the profit was
£229,920 (up £114,676), equal to
46.7 p.c. on capital or 2.35. per
share. No div. was paid because
of expenditure on the Sungkai
and Puchong No. 2 dredges.
Since the close of accounts Is.
per share has been sent out,
subject to Malayan tax. When
the Sungkai and Puchong No. 2
machines get into their stride
net earnings should receive a
boost
When the books closed current
assets totalled £297,636 (of
which £116,050 was stores) and
current liabilities (including tax-
provision) £163,175.
Anticipating its benefits, the
market prices the f.-p. ss. shares
at 225. each, at which figure the
return would be 9.5 p.c. on a
3s. div., less Malayan tax.
Pungkah Tin Dredging
Paid capital is £215,000 in 10s.
shares. Dredging results over
the last two years were:
Concen- Av. Overall
Tear to Treated, trates, Per C.y., Cost,
June 30, C.y. Tons. Lbs. C.y.
1954. .2,669,000 609.8 0.51 14.56 d.
1955. .1,950,000 338.5 0.89 14.94 d.
The profit, after tax (£5172, down
£46,458), was £46,086 (down
£12,598), equal to 26.6 p.c. on
capital, or 2.145. per share, and
Is. a share was. distributed,
subject to Malayan tax. Another
Is. a share was paid on October
21 last It was a creditable per-
formance considering only
106,000 c.y. of the dirt treated
was virgin ground, and that run-
ning - time was curtailed by
rehabilitation of the dredge hull.
- At June 30, 1955, current
assets (including stores, £40,288)
figured at £116,763 and current
liabilities at £49,199. The market
prices the scrip at 12s.
Thabawleik Tin Dredging
Paid capital is £BO,OOO in 10s.
shares. Last term the dredge
handled more ground, but it was
nearly all tailings, and values
were lower: —
Concen- Av. Overall
Tear to Treated, trates, Per C.y., Cost,
June 30, C.y. Tons. Lbs. C.y.
1954. .1,476,000 466.6 0.71 26.81 d.
1955. .2,046,000 360.5 0.39 16.80 d.
After allowing for tax (£30,366,
down £17,503), the profit was
£22,592 (down £8513), equal to
28.2 p.c. on capital, or 2.925. per
share, of which Is. was distri-
buted, and another Is. went out
on September 28, 1955.
At the close of accounts
current assets amounted to
£88,524 (£37,459 of it stores) and
current liabilities £39,493.
For the current term the
dredge will be entirely in tailings,
and only a moderate profit need
be expected. The scrip fetches
12s. in the market.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO GLADYS PEARL FIDLEB laW of 137 McPher-
son Street North Carlton. TAKE petition
GEORGE LEONARD FIDLER has filed a Prtitio
for Divorce No. 1774 of 1955 on the grounds of
sertion without just cause or excuse for three y
and upwards and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2a)
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1954 If you wnfcto
defend you may enter an appearance in the
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney - , d
Thirtieth day of March One thousand nm
and fifty-six and obtain a copy of
out charge from JOHN HICKEY & SON Soh«tore
lie Castlereagh Street. Sydney—J. DOUUUa.
Registrar.
Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Sixteen women have portraits hung
in the Archibald exhibition and women
are the subjects of about one-third of
the paintings. Among them many will
recognise Matron Shaw (two portraits
this year), Miss Mander-Jones (with the
Public Library as a background), Miss
Edna Rasmussen, Madame Gertrude
Bodenweiser, Dr. Dora McMahon, Mrs.
John Bovill and Mrs. C. T. Lorenz. It
is interesting to note how many women-
artists are named Mary. There are
Mary McLeish, Mary Abbott, Mary
Troy, Mary Edwell Burke and Mary
Brady—nearly one-third of the women
exhibiting.
Most people viewing “The Archibald”
during the weekend seemed to agree with
the judge’s findings, but if the Contenv
orary Art Society picks its favorite (as
it did last year) the choice will probably
fall on Judy who has two por-
traits hung, Wallace Thornton and Chips
Rafferty.
* ☆ ☆
A book that will probably be widely
read is / Travelled a Lonely Land, by
Nina Pulliam (The Bobbs-Merrill Com-
pany), because it relates an American
journalist’s findings on Australia after an
extensive, though probably too-hurried,
tour of the continent. Miss Pulliam is a
person of right goodwill, lively, energetic,
amusing, but at times, as O. Henry would
say, “too eager to please to please.” If
she falls in love with anything on her
travels, such as Sydney Harbor or a
koala, she says so with so much warmth
and enthusiasm that she becomes effusive,
and this in the end grows tiring.
She is properly critical, however, of
anything she found deplorable, such as
the conditions in hotels (“The difference
between public and private dining in Aus-
tralia is outside my everyday vocabulary,”
she says), the weekend, which she
describes as “a lost-weekend” (this is
from a visitor’s point of view), the lack
of central-heating, the liquor-laws, the
women’s hats: “I didn’t see more than
two hats that were not minor catas-
trophes.” The last comment is a matter
of opinion, of course, for although the
koala on the dust-cover is said to have
fallen in love with Miss Pulliam’s own
hat, there are some people who might not
agree with him.
Miss Pulliam is very interested in Aus-
tralian speech, but her ear does not seem
to be very acute. It is hard to believe
that she really heard a waitress say, “This
lydy is wyting for her mister” (her hubby,
perhaps, her boy-friend or even her bloke,
but surely not “her mister”!), nor that a
person of Scottish blood said “ ’Tis a foine
road.” She is mistaken in thinking that
“in the bag” means “not expected to
win,” or that “rotter”' is generally used to
describe a person really skilled in some-
thing. Inaccuracies include the reports
that Australians do not believe in
pasteurising milk, and that Douglas
Stewart wrote the verse attributed to
him on page 81.
But picking out faults is a churlish way
to treat a writer who describes Australians
as “among the most genuinely hospitable
people in the world.” I Travelled a
Lonely Land is packed full of informa-
tion which, though hurriedly gathered
together, is vividly presented by one who
has seen more of Australia in one visit
than most Australians see in a lifetime.
People all over the country will find
something to interest them in this book
and may be stimulated by it to learn
more about the land in which they live.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the most important decisions
of the Australian Federation of Univer-
sity Women, which held its 14th biennial
conference at the Women’s College dur-
ing the week, was to establish a fellow-
ship-fund to bring an Asian woman-
graduate to Australia each year to study
in an Australian university. It is also
hoped to send Australian graduates to
Asian countries to work and live with
Asians, as personal contact is considered
so tremendously important. The con-
ference finished on Friday, and on the
following day Dr. Concepcion Aguila
(Manila) and Mrs. R. A. Forsaith (W.A.)
flew to New Zealand to attend a similar
conference of New Zealand women-
graduates.
Cost-of-living comment from the
young: A young secretary took her little
boy into the office to “show him off.’
The boss patted him on the head and
gave him a shilling, saying “And what
are you going to do with it, Johnnie?
To which Johnnie replied, “Well, there’s
not much you can do with a shilling, is
there?” His mother’s blushes did not
subside even when the boss laughed and
doubled the offering.
Mrs. Beth Schurr, whose voice will
he heard on the next disk released by
the Wattle Recording Company, became
interested in the singing of folk-songs
when she first heard Burl Ives at Sydney
Town Hall. Since then she has joined
the Australian Folklore Society and has
learnt many songs of English, Irish and
Scottish origin, but has found that there
are few purely Australian songs suitable
for a woman’s voice. The songs she
will sing on the Wattle record are “The
Green Bushes” —for which the words
and air were supplied by Mrs. Sloane,
of Gosford - and Henry Lawson’s
“Andy’s Gone with Cattle.”
A “Know Your Neighbor” week is to
be held at Legion House during March,
with a spectacular international exhibi-
tion, films about other lands, a discussion-
evening with four outstanding speakers,
and an international dinner which will be
prepared by members of various Embas-
sies and served by representatives of all
nations in national-dress. The Week
is being organised by the Ladies’ Auxili-
ary working on behalf of the Catholic
Welfare Bureau, and promises to be in-
teresting, educational and enjoyable.
☆ ☆ ☆
“The Boy Friend,” which is to open at
the Elizabethan next Tuesday (January
31), is set and costumed in the 1920’s
style and revives the years of the Charles-
ton, the “black bottom,” the cloche-hat
and cupid-bow lips. Its great success
in London and New York has mainly
been' due to the fact that older theatre-
goers enjoy it from a nostalgic point of
view and younger theatregoers find
it remarkable and even ludicrous.
Two people who will appear are
authorities on the subject, for Carl
Randall and. Minnie Love have played in
many musical-comedies of that era.
Marie Tysoe, whose glorious lyrical voice
has already gained her a name, adds
dancing and other accomplishments to
her part in this musical,
* ☆ *
More Davy-Crockettana. The little
boys attending the film refuse to take
their fur-hats off during the playing of
“God Save the Queen.” “No fear,” they
say when urged to do so; “we’re in
uniform.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Setting-off for a round-the-world
trip on Friday is Miss Margaret Telfer,
registrar of the University of Sydney,
who is travelling on a Carnegie
ship. After an extensive North
American tour she will travel from Mon-
treal to Liverpool per S.S. Empress of
Britain and will return from London to
Sydney by Orsova in September. Miss
Telfer, who is the first woman to hold
the post of registrar at an Australian
university, will study methods used at
universities abroad relating to her
work.
MELBOURNE
Mr. and Mrs. Garnet Carroll invited
more than 300 guests to an at-home in
honor of Sir Lewis Casson and his wife,
Dame Sybil Thorndike. In the hall,
where guests were received, was a
standard candelabrum with scarlet
candles, and the mantel was massed with
white gladioli. In the dining-room o
Hexham, the Carroll residence m
Domain-road, a centrepiece was of pastel
waterlilies and gardenias flanked by pale-
green candles from which Cecil Brunner
roses draped to the table.
Lady Brooks, smart in a frock of* fine
black wool draped to one side with a
large bow-finish and with a floating side-
panel of the material on the hip, was
attended by Captain Michael Rayne,
whose fiancee, Judith Leask, was also
present.
The hostess chose a beautiful wide-
skirted frock of white Brussels-lace in a
rose design. It was made with a fitted
bodice; the neckline cut wide to the
shoulders. Dame Sybil’s formal gown
of gold crepe was patterned in brown
and gold roses. The Premier and Mrs.
Bolte were present, also the newly-
appointed Victorian Agent-General to
London (Mr. Leggatt) and Mrs. Leggatt.
The Tom Hollways came up from Point
Lonsdale for the party (they leave in
the Dominion Monarch for overseas on
February 22). Sir Owen and Lady Dixon,
Dame Mabel Brooks, Vice-Admiral Sir
John and Lady Collins, Lady Blarney,
Dr. and Mrs. Keith Fairley and Mr. and
Mrs. J. W. Jungwirth were there.
The Diplomatic Corps was represented
by Italian Consul-General the Marquis
Serafini and the Marchesa Serafini, Con-
sul for France M. le Bas de Plumetot and
his wife, and New Zealand Liaison Officer
Captain G. R. Davis Goff and Mrs. Davis
Goff. Theatrical people included Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Tait, Dr. and Mrs. A. Wynn
(she was formerly ballerina Sally Gil-
mour), Miss Irene Mitchell (one of the
directors of the Little Theatre), Mrs.
Hana Pravda, English actress Olive
Walter, Morgan St. John (of the
“Kismet” cast), Eric Reiman (of “Can-
can”) and Gordon Chator (who is the
Dame in the Tivoli pantomime).
Ann Lyon, younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. W. Lyon, of St. Kilda-road,
was educated at Merton Hall C.E.G.G.S.,
and then became secretary to well-known
Melbourne medicos. She is now busy
preparing for her marriage with veterin-
ary-surgeon John Faulkner on February
9 at St. John’s, Toorak. The reception
will be held at No. 9 Darling-street.
☆ ☆ ☆
For autumn and winter the “new look”
in hand-knitted wear will be the tweedy
one. There is a new yarn called Glen
tweed which knits into a knobbly-tweed
finish. There are also several attractive
handknits which need double-knitting in
two different colors. These were seen at
Paton and Baldwin’s fashion-show. New
colors are marigold, tangerine, Italian-
pink, citrus-yellow and cinnamon. Which
means that, at long last, the winter-scene
will be bright. '
Styles in this display showed a strong
tendency to be loose, long-waisted and
designed to be worn outside skirts or
slacks: these are knitted in the thicker
wools. For day-wear they have contrast-
ing hip-bands, necks and cuffs, and when
designed for winter-sports they are knitted
in bright Fair Isle patterns. The dropped
shoulder-line and raglan-sleeves were
I seen on many designs, and the use of
buttons gives extra effect on easy-stitch
garments.
Among the models shown was a smart
suit with the long-torso line, knitted in
the new tweed-wool. The high neckline,
waistband and cuffs were in a contrasting
shade. A feature of the new handknits
is the knitted darts which give a firm fit
and finish.
☆ ☆ ☆
As the domineering mother in “Sailor
‘Beware!” English actress Olive Walter
was a great success and received a warm
welcome from the first-night audience at
the Comedy Theatre.
Short evening-frocks were dominant
in the audience. An outstanding short-
ensemble was worn by Mrs. Dorothy
Gitsham: over a short sheath-frock of
ice-blue silk a finely pleated silk-organza
coat shading from pink to red, with satin
shoes and jewellery in matching red.
Mrs. Robert Wallace Mitchell’s short
white-lace frock had the Empire bodice
accented with pink-satin ribbon. Mrs.
Graham Nathan’s long evening-gown
was in scarlet silk-taffeta. Mrs. Fred
Dennett’s short bouffant frock was of
American-beauty satin.
Noel Davidson, who was with her
mother, Mrs. Charles Davidson, chose a
full-skirted frock of eau-de-Nil silk-
organza. Lindy Challingsworth’s frosted-
pink organdie frock was trimmed with
bobble-braid ; Mrs. Frank Tait teamed
a cognac organdie blouse, which had
immense balloon-sleeves, with a short
black taffeta skirt. Mrs. Fred Irvine,
who was with her son and daughter-in-
law, the Ken Irvines, topped her short
black frock with a brilliant-green taffeta
coat; Mrs. Peter Gray’s short sheath-
frock was of mist-blue-and-gold Chinese-
brocade; Joy Roberts wore black Chan-
tilly-lace over iridescent-blue.
* ☆ *
At the Toorak Presbyterian Church
Adrienne Isobel, only daughter of the
late Mr. and Mrs. A. A. H. Maxwell,
formerly of Toorak, was married to
English actor William Edward Hodge.
Her short bouffant frock of white
organza carried wide horizontal pleating,
and two wide pleats finished the short-
sleeved bodice. A coronet of mother-of-
pearl shells held the short white-tulle
veil, and she carried a sheaf of white
roses. Adrienne was attended by
Marjorie Tatnall, whose frock, also of
white organza, was made with a fichu-
collar and had two panels of horizontal
pleating in the skirt. Her coronet was
of entwined ivy-leaves, and she carried
a sheaf of white and pale-gold roses.
Best man was Dr. Edward (“Weary”)
Dunlop, well known to all former
prisoners-of-war in Changi. At the after-
ceremony reception the bride’s cousin,
Dr. Murray -Maxwell, and his wife
received the many guests. Mrs. Maxwell
wore a short frock of pale-lavender silk-
surah patterned in light grey. Among
the guests were the bride’s uncle and
aunt (Mr. and Mrs. Victor Boswarrick),
Mr. Justice Dean, Chancellor of the Uni-
versity (who proposed the health of the
bride and ’groom), and Mrs. Dean, Mrs.
Edward Dunlop (her pretty frock of
white organza patterned in turquoise-blue
coin-spots), Mr. and Mrs. Henry Tatnall
(her formal gown had a deep-cream
guipure-lace bodice and skirt of cream
satin), Mr. and Mrs. Guy Livingstone, the
Marquis and Marchesa Serafini, Mr. and
Mrs. lan Jacoby (Sydney), Mrs. D. J.
Ross and her daughter Julia, Dame Sybil
Thorndike and her daughter-in-law Mrs.
John Casson, Dr. Margaret Sanders and
her fiance Charles Clarke.
V # &
The engagement has been announced
of Jane Warren, youngest daughter of
Mr. Essington Lewis, of South Yarra,
and the late Mrs. Lewis, to Richard
Stanley, son of Mr. and Mrs. Stanley
Anketell Allen, also of South Yarra.
Jane, who is a physiotherapist, plans for a
wedding in April or May. She is wearing
a ring of three diamonds. A family
dinner-party celebrated the engagement.


PEDIGREE STOCK, of course.
But how about YOUR pedigree?
Contact your ancestors, write
“PEDIGREE,” c/o WHITFELD
2 Greenwich-road, Greenwich,
Sydney.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly
OSIIIUVAA
as sw^S
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE' STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Divorce Notice*
TO IRENE MAY BRADFORD formerly of
Brisbane Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband ERIC BEAKELY BRAD-
FORD of 38 York Street North Perth in
the State of Western Australia has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of separation for
a continuous period of not less than five
years there being no reasonable likelihood
of cohabitation being resumed. If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must within Forty (40) clear days after
the date of this publication file in the
Central Office Supreme Court at Perth a
statement of your defence In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you. DATED the
16th day of January, 1956. —G. J. BOYL-
SON, Registrar. MORRIS CRAWCODR
& SOLOMON, Solicitors, Atlas Buildings,
8 Esplanade, Perth.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA (Divorce).
No. 112 of 1955.
TO KEITH COLBECK formerly of Hobart
in the State of Tasmania.—TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in
this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of DONALD HILTON SMITH of
Dodge’s Ferry in Tasmania praying for
dissolution of his marriage with MAVIS
HANNAH SMITH on the ground of her
adultery with you IN DEFAULT of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said charges proved and
pronounce judgment therein your absence
notwithstanding AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid
an appearance must be entered at the
Principal Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart,
within Thirty days of the publication of
this notice. DATED the 18th day of
January, 1956.—H. R. DOBBIE, Principal
Registrar.
Missing Friend*
MACINTOSH.
INFORMATION is desired regarding
ALLAN MACINTOSH, who, when last
heard of, was in New South Wales, and
who is a son of WILLIAM P. MACIN-
TOSH. If the said ALLAN MACINTOSH
will communicate with the undersigned
he might hear something to his advan-
tage. Anyone having information regard-
ing the said ALLAN MACINTOSH or his
representatives might please communicate
with the undersigned.—T. F. REID &
DONALDSON, Solicitors, Paisley, Scot-
land.
Your OWN Grain Storage
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
AND AUGERS
SILOS
m
® Heavy gauge galvanised sheets
• Easily erected permanent
© Rodent and weatherproof
© Steel earth rings and loading plat-
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
© Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
©Segmented con-
struction for easy
assembly
© Unique vertical
filling avoids
congestion
© Vertical sets
complete with
wall brackets,
chute tubes,
etc.
AUGERS. Priced as law
as Hll. Popular type
for standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided),
£l3B.
WRITE for further in-
formation and Agents'
Names to Dept. No. B
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght lAustralial Pty. Ltd. In
all Capital Cities. SSA/54
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Archibald Prize
No banners will be raised this
year, surely, in protest against
the decisions in the Archibald
and Wynne competitions; no
hordes of long-haired youths and
bearded maidens will storm the
fortress of the Sydney Gallery;
no outraged traditionalists turn
in their graves or wave their
wooden legs ; no furious rejected-
entrants hold an exhibition of
their own strange wares and
award each other prizes of no
monetary value.
Or if that does happen—this
is being written before the storm
has had a chance to burst —that
just shows what people are: for
not only are Ivor Hele’s Archi-
bald prizewinner and Charles
Bush’s Wynne-winner clearly
outstanding in their company,
but “contemporary” portraits dot
the Archibald display like good
deeds in a naughty world—or
naughty deeds in a good world ;
it depends on the point-of-view—
while a mighty comber of
abstracts swirls among the land-
scapes of the Wynne, proving
that progress or something has
broken-in in all directions.
But if one wanted to wave a
banner of any kind it would not
be a bad idea to brandish some-
where near the entrance Gruner’s
“Spring Frosts,” Tom Roberts’s
“The Shearing-shed,” Lambert’s
“The White Glove” ; or, not to
delve so far among the
immortal antiques, Dobell’s
“Brian Penton,” the Ivor Hele
self-portrait that didn’t win the
prize, and the best of the Lance
Solomon landscapes from the
last few years; for it must be
said that, liberal as these exhibi-
tions are and impeccable as are
the awards, altogether they are
a remarkably feeble lot of
paintings.
Hele’s prizewinner, for its
vigor, would have taken a
respectable position, if not the
prize, in any year; so would his
other portrait, of Senator A. M.
McMullin, which says so much
about politics. Joshua Smith,
making a more accurate if less
sensational report on Joshua
Smith than Dobell did on a
famous occasion, is a sound
runner-up. William Pidgeon’s
“Miss Whiteley” has charm,
Hanke is pleasant with Sir
Eugene Goossens, Arthur
Murch alive in his odd
way, Colquhoun satisfactory,
Reg Campbell surprisingly effec-
tive with Capt. P. G. Claridge,
Dora Toovey not unimpressive
with Lloyd Rees, and Mary
McLeish much more accom-
plished in her sketchiness with
Paul McLeish, Esq., than many
a more “finished” portraitist.
In the Wynne, though there
is really nothing to rival Charles
Bush’s strong if unsubtle mass
of boats, heat and hills at
Townsville, a green George
Lawrence, a meticulously cool
Charles Meere, a ragged bit of
bush by Herbert Flugelman and
possibly Arthur Evan Read’s
somewhat dingy “Mangrove
Road” are all pictures worth
inspecting.
In the Sulman, usually such a
weird array of the ineffable but
quite eclipsed this year by the
abstracts in the Wynne, Wesley
Pemberthy’s prize - winning
“Oriental Mural” is an attrac-
tive design, so far as he has
carried it in black-and-white, and
Jill Young’s “Lbs Poissons,” a
sort of montage of sea-sand on
wood, is a pleasing oddity.
But great paintings, memor-
able paintings, even paintings
worth quarrelling about, there
are none.
The absence of regular exhibi-
tors —Dargie in London ; Dobell
and Lance Solomon in smoke —
partly accounts for the general
mediocrity. So does the com-
parative dullness of last year’s
liveliest newcomers, Judy Cassab
and Jack Carington Smith. So
does the absence of such lively
painters as Russell Drysdale, who
might do much to enliven both
the Wynne and the Archibald, of
expert watercolorists such as
G. K. Townshend and of many
painters both in oils and water-
color who do their best on a
small scale, and who might be
induced to compete if it wasn’t
a foregone conclusion that the
prizes will always go to the
largest oils on view—as if a tiny
Hilder watercolor or Percy
Lindsay oil, if their equivalent
could be found today, wouldn’t
have 10 times the artistic value
of the huge slathers of oil-paint
among which the trustees make
their choice.
Stage and Music
“Sailor Beware!”
“Sailor Beware!” at Mel-
bourne Comedy, is a warning
issued by Messrs. Philip King
and Falkland Cary, English
playwrights, to all in general, and
sailors in particular, to avoid
mothers-in-law like the devil,
They can be avoided in -various
ways—by not getting married,
by marrying an orphan, or by
having a wife, and therefore a
mother-in-law, in every port, in
which case one mother-in-law is
perpetually disappearing astern
while another is looming-up over
the horizon, thus making for
calms and storms in equal
proportions.
To have, however, a mother-
in-law who doesn’t want to lose
her daughter and insists on set-
ting her up two doors down the
street is to exchange lonely
bachelordom for a perpetual
maelstrom. The cautious sailor
therefore hauls his sheet and
claws-off the danger by not
turning-up at the'wedding. This
produces such chaos in the
Hornett family that mother
Hornett has hysterics, and father
Hornett gets the opportunity to
slip his moorings and steer a safe
course to the local.
The storm is at its height when
the sailor drifts back stern-first,
having been caught by the
contrary winds of his deep desire
for the girl and his profound
distaste for her mother. At this
point the Rev. Oliver Purefoy,
having failed to collect his fees
for the wedding, comes sailing in
with a free-sheet, bursting with
good intentions and sound advice
for the reluctant bridegroom, the
weeping bride and the frustrated
mother. Sailing very close to a
reasonable solution, he succeeds
in convincing the mother-in-law
that she is not altogether an
angel with wings, and the upshot
is that the sailor and his girl are
permitted to cast anchor in a
little harbor far enough from the
home-port to make the visits of
mother Hornett infrequent
enough to be pleasant.
The piece is a simple,
unsophisticated English domestic
comedy and its conventional
situations and artless dialogue
pass overhead like rain pattering
on the roof. Myrtle Woods,
Charles Haggith, Olive Walter,
Tony Bazell, Martha Hathaway
and James Haggart found it easy
to play. Olive Walter, as the
mother-in-law, was blood-
curdlingly real, and Desmond
Tester was desperately funny as
a Scottish seaman with an
associational dread of women.
Continuous laughter accom-
panied the proceedings.
* *
“Amahl and the Night
Visitors”
Continuing its season of open-
air opera at Avalon (Sydney),
the Sydney Opera Group pre-
sented last Saturday night Gian-
Carlo Menotti’s “Amahl and the
Night Visitors,” a one-acter
telling with beauty and gentle
humor the story of a crippled
shepherd-boy whose widowed
mother gives shelter to the Wise
Men on their way to Bethlehem.
Nick Carter, from Mona Vale,
a 13-year-old Manly High
School pupil, played the crippled
boy with an astonishing natural-
ness; Joy Stapleton gave the
role of Amahl’s mother a quiet
dignity; and singer Ross What-
son (as King Melchior) im-
pressed this Showman as a
vocalist who, given the oppor-
tunities, should have an assured
future. Sydney could do with
more young male singers of his
standing. He received adequate
support from John Brosnan
(King Balthazar) and Keith
Wright (King Kaspar). Out-
standing among the singing
shepherds was tenor John
Mansfield. *
W. E. F.
Talkies
TSnfro® Raqum-
(Sydney Savoy), a critic has said:
“This French film.... must be
pretty nearly a perfect adapta-
tion of the old Zola shocker
about an unhappy provincial
wife who is sucked into murder
and blackmail when she takes a
secret lover.”
As a matter of fact it wouldn’t
surprise if Zola sent through
from the Shades another blister-
ing /’ accuse —to Marcel Came,
who made the screen-version,
In this, the dismal Raquin
haberdashery is located, not in
the small Pont-Neuf Passage in
Paris, but in a street in Lyons,
Laurent, Therese’s lover and the
murderer of Camille, her
husband, is not the lazy, self-
indulgent peasant from the
Jeufosse cornfields, but an Italian
truck-driver, handsome and
determined, and quite unlike the
flabby, cowardly villian of the
novel.
In the film Camille is thrown
from a train by the truck-driver ;
in the novel the husband is
pushed from a canoe into the
Seine. The nightmarish chapter
describing Laurent’s visit to the
morgue has been eliminated;
instead, Therese identifies the
corpse sprawled on a railway-
embankment.
The sailor (a witness to the
crime) who blackmails Laurent
and Therese, his accidental
death, the little chambermaid and
the letter to the police are the
creations of a modern script-
writer, not Zola. Grivet and
Michaud appear in the film, but
Olivier and Suzanne might never
have existed.
The blackmailing sequence
replaces the marriage of Laurent
and Therese after two years of
agonising separation, a marriage
made horrible by their common
guilt, their dread and the intense
hatred each has for the other,
proceeding with the remorse-
lessness and inevitability of a
Greek tragedy to the self-
destruction which comes as a
relief to both.
Therese Raquin, a foretoken
of Zola’s Rougon-Macquart
novels, was the first of his books
to reveal his genius. It called for
something better, something
more authentic, than the film
that carries the same title.
Still, though untrue to Zola,
it is a film of considerable power
and suspense, brilliantly acted
and presented with the naturalism
and avoidance of glamor that
hallmark the better French
films. Simone Signoret plays
Therese, Raf Vallone is Laurent,
Jacques Du by depicts Camille,
Roland Lasaffre is the sailor,
and Sylvie, the great lady of the
French cinema, give an un-
forgettable performance as the
mother.
W. E. F.
“Witness to Murder” (Sydney
Palace): A well-constructed
thriller, with a fair degree of
tension and strong feasibility.
A woman flat-tenant sees a
man strangle a woman in the
flat opposite and reports it to
the police. By the time they get
there the murderer has tempor-
arily hidden the body, and is able
to convince the police that the
flat-tenant must have seen it in
a dream. It resolves itself then
into a struggle between the per-
sistence of the witness against
the reluctant\police, who regard
her as a neurotic, and the
murderer (an author), who uses
some clever devices to convince
the cops that she is mentally ill.
It fakes about 80 minutes for
Nemesis to make his swoop.
Barbara Stanwyck and George
Sanders are the antagonists,
George Merrill the detective who
finally sees the light and the altar
looming up simultaneously.


The Haunted Cradle
By
David
Campbell
I
SOON after Mr. Blake left,
Bob Simpson saw the
ghost in a stroke of light-
ning. The storm that day
had lifted the roof off the barn,
and, riding home in the dark
to town after work, he saw the
lightning run through it, and
there was the ghost perched
high amongst the streaming
rafters
“What was it like?” Billy
said.
“Well, that doesn’t matter
much,” Bob said. “It was the
pipe that got me in. A man
could be mistaken in the flash,
like; but you can’t get away
from that pipe.”
For the ghost had a pipe in
its mouth, and even after the
lightning Bob could see the
glow and fade of it against the
windy dark. And listening to
him by the cottage fire, his chest
half-bare, his nose a hooked
shadow, and a cocksure droop
to his young eyes, the children
thought that it must have been
a terrible sight to have
frightened him so much;
because Bob galloped back to
the homestead and refused to
go home for a week.
He had his meals in the
kitchen, except lunch, which
Elsie cut for him; and at night
he camped for comfort in a
little bare room between the
cook’s room and Elsie’s. But
at the end of the week he was
looking more frightened than
ever.
Their father had to speak to
him, finally; and although he
laughed about it later, saying
Bob was like a ghost himself,
he was serious at the time, for
Bob rode home looking sulky
and making an elaborate circle
around the bam. But when the
barn was pulled down and a
convict’s skeleton was found
under the redbox comer-post,
the slow self-confident curl
returned to his lip-end.
Soon after that, Bob and Elsie
were married and went to live
in the cottage up the creek.
And the children returning from
their holiday rode off through
the ram-paddock and the yellow
willows to hear all about the
ghost. At first Bob did not
seem to remember very much,
but gradually his memory
improved and each day there
was some new and exciting
detail he had forgotten.
“Did he have a sheet over
him?” Billy said.
“Sheet? Oh, yes; he had a
sheet over him. My oath!”
They were sitting on the
weatherboard veranda under
the shingles watching the long
autumn day flare out in the
willows. Bob had his bare arm
around Elsie’s waist and he gave
her a squeeze.
“That’s right,” he said, “isn’t
it?”
“Get on with you.” Elsie
wriggled her heavy shoulders
and giggled. “The things you
say! It’s not right. Well, one
more cake all round and then
you kids better hop it.”
She seemed upset quite
suddenly, her fair downy
cheeks flushing a little; but as
she walked through to get the
cakes from the enamelled tin
with the gold roses on it, her
eyes looked back into Bob’s as
if joined to them by wires. Her
face had an unreal lustre as if
it had been glazed with icing.
“There you are,” Bob said,
“you’ve got your cakes. Now
slide off, vanish.”
“We haven’t finished yet.”
Billy was cleaning the paper
cone over his finger. “This is
the best part.”
But Bob and Elsie had walked
through together into the yellow
hallway.
“You know,” Billy said,
“Elsie’s changed. Her chin
doesn’t wobble any more.”
The willow-leaves dropped
into the coiling water.
“Do you think it was a real
sheet?”
They were riding home, back
on the subject of .the ghost. It
seemed more real than ever
amongst the shouldering
shadows. But they soon
learned not to mention it in
front of their mother.
“There was no ghost,” she
said, gathering up her mending.
“There are no such things as
ghosts; and it would never
have happened if I had been
here. I refuse to have anything
to do with it. Nothing from
this house will go there and I
forbid you children to speak to
Elsie.” (
And she walked out of the
room without looking at. their
father.
T|UT this only kept their
interest alive; and, for-
getting her warning, they called
at the cottage as often as
possible. In fact, she had given
them an idea, and when nobody
was about, they struggled down
the hill and under the willows
with broken chairs from the
boxroom and broken saucepans
that Bob mended in the even-
ings. The pine kitchen closed
in around the furniture, and
there were always pink cakes
in the enamel tin by the fire.
“Here you are,” Elsie said,
“take two.”
For some reason her smile
was more honeyed now, less
free and friendly; and she
stuffed cakes into their pockets
when they did not want them.
“Go on,” she said, “they won’t
bite you. What have you done
with your appetites today?”
“Don’t overdo it, Else,” Bob
told her. “They’ll eat no tea
when they get home, and then
where will you be?”
He was lying back on one of
the veranda-chairs, sharing a
joke with himself.
“Yes, sulphur!” he said.
“There was a terrible smell of
sulphur. Of course, the mare
was snorting and chivying
around like she was flank-roped,
but I smelt it all the same. You
know, like the smell around the
dip at dipping-time. Dries the
nose.”
His descriptions were more
detailed, less convincing, now,
but the children hardly noticed
the change. They were taken
up with furnishjng a real house.
It was far more exciting than
any game they had ever played ;
and as Elsie fawned and they
dimly sensed their power, they
began to look upon it almost as
their own.
“I know,” Billy said as they
waded through the creek with a
three-legged washstand. “Why
don’t we wait till they’re all in
town and take a drayload?
There’s packets of it there —just
lying about.”
“No.”
Janet set the tiled top down
on the sand. The tiles were
green, with naked pink tulips in
their centres. “No, this way is
best.” And she pushed back a
lock of fair hair. “Do you
know? . . . last time we were
there, I don’t think Elsie had
swept out the lavatory!” She
spoke in a high, concerned way
with a little frown between her
eyes. “Your turn for the top.”
“I still think . . .” Billy said,
the tiled edge biting his heel.
“I still think a drayload would
be better.”
“No.” Janet was quite
decided. “It’s not ours really—
but it’s a long way to carry
things. And it takes longer.”
II
THE furnishing was well on
the way when quite
suddenly Elsie went to town
and came back at the end of the
week with a baby. The children
were delighted.
“There are those things of
Babs’s in the ottoman,” Japet
said. “Aren’t you thrilled? Now
we’ve got a baby!”
“I’d rather have a cattle-pup
myself,” Billy said.
“Don’t be silly. Now count
them —three, four, five, six.
That ought to do for a start.'
Spread the sheet back. Oh, I’m
dying to see it.”
But when they ran up the
green slope through the quince-
hedge, things were not as they
expected at all. The baby was
all right—a pink sugar-pig with
a strangely old face sleeping
the winter away in a bag-cradle
of cross-stays; but the house
was a pigsty and Elsie was
bloated with crying.
“Thank you, I’m sure.”
She was only composed while
she sat by the baby, aimlessly
rocking the cradle and tickling
its belly with a ripe forefinger.
“He knows me,” she said.
“See, he knows his mummy.”
The baby howled.
Janet began tidying-up the
house, and at five Bob came in.
Bob had changed, too. He had
lost his lidded look, and all the
upward lines of his face had
vanished so that he seemed five
years younger. But his eyes
worried Janet most. They really
looked as if they had seen a
ghost.
And so it was all winter,
except that as Bob grew more
surly, Elsie cheered up. Each
time the children called, the
house was more untidy and Elsie
sat by the cradle screwing up her
eyes and making bubble sounds
through fat lips. Sometimes she
swept a stroke of dust out into
the wind, but it blew back,
gilding the shaft of wintry light
from the window.
“There you are,” she said.
“You can’t do nothing with it.
That’s what I tell him, but men
are that particular!”
And she returned to stare
entranced at the fire where water
boiled over, blackening the live
coals.
“He’s that fair! ” she said. “I
■ thought he would be.”
Janet was so upset she grew
pale and tired, and her mother
began to worry about her.
“I don’t know what’s come
over Janet,” she said. “She’s
riding too much.”
But Janet only got impatient.
“The house,” she told Billy.
“It was so nice. Oh, Elsie’s just
a pig . . . Poor Bob!”
Then, finding Elsie submissive,
she recovered her spirits. There
were days of elaborate spring-
cleaning, sweeping-out nails and
wax-matches from the bedroom,
folding clothes back into suit-
cases, and carrying boxes
choked with rubbish to burn in
the wind. At these times she
was exalted, and she stood with
her fair head on one side arrang-
ing jonquils in a jam-jar, moving
a green stem here, and stepping
back to consider, while Elsie,
fat and mild, hung around with
a broom, ready to take orders
as if she were a housemaid
again. But she would dis-
appear and they would find her
sitting by the cradle. Janet was
very high-handed with her,
setting her to scrub the kitchen
floor.
“If you can’t leave it for a
minute! ” she said. “Don’t you
want the house to look nice for
Bob?”
But as the sunlight crept in,
she made it up to Elsie, finding
new reasons to stay, and
wandering from room to room,
from window to window, to
gaze out across the winter
paddocks. When Bob came in
she watched him through lashes,
negligently smiling; but he
never noticed the difference,
trailing his cowyard oilskin
across the scrubbed floor.
So she grew silent once more
and the house was never
finished and they always ended-
up around the fire, eating cakes
and talking about the ghost.
The ghost interested them
again now because Bob would
not talk about it. Instead, he
shook his head and smiled rawly
as if the thought of it troubled
him, which of course increased
the mystery. But Elsie
encouraged Billy, giggling and
inciting his smiles and remem-
bering all the little details that
had grown up during the early
months of their marriage.
“I wonder if it really had a
sheet over it,” Billy said.
“He wasn’t in a. state to
know,” Elsie laughed. “But
here he is; you ask him.”
Bob was coming in with his
oilskin blowing, slamming the
door on the gale.
“Crows are terrible this year,”
he said. “There was one chas-
ing a ewe all over the paddock—
a full-grown ewe!”
“Did the ghost have a sheet
over it, Bob?”
“Ghost? There wasn’t any
ghost.”
And he stood for some time
looking down at the baby before
squatting on his heel by the
fire.
“There’s an old pram,” Janet
said. “We’ll bring you a pram
next time, Bob.”
Perhaps he just didn’t like the
cradle.
11l
Fwas while they were wheel-
ing the pram over that they
found St. John’s tombstone in
the willow; and because of the
ghost and the skeleton they
were prepared to believe any-
thing.
The pram had run well down-
hill, but it was rough going
amongst the tussocks, and Babs
refused to get out.
“I’m tired,” she said. “I feel
sick.”
“If 3'ou don’t get out,” Billy
said, “I’ll tip you over the bank,
into the creek.”
“And I’ll tell.”
“You won’t be here to tell,”
Janet said. “You’ll be floating
down the waterfall.”
They had stopped under a
cloven-willow that made a new
green cage for the magpies ; and,
looking up, there was a six-
inch chip of white willow-wood
let into the seamed bark. It
was carved deeply with the
point of a knife.
St. Johns Wart
Killed here
12th December
“Read it again, Jan.”
Janet read it. And the
children stood dumbfounded
under the tree, the shadows
suddenly cunning, the blue day
strange and withdrawn outside.
“What do you think it
means?”
“Well,” Janet said, “I expect
it means just what it says.
Someone was killed and buried
here last year. On the
seventeenth.”
Babs took Janet’s hand and
Billy glanced through the green
bars of the willow with a
pleasant feeling of panic.
“But what’s the Wart doing?”
he said. “You don’t suppose
they just cut his wart off and
buried that?”
He was relieved to find that
he could laugh at such a time
and Babs stopped dragging at
Janet’s hand and looked up at
her, ready to smile.
“Like the one Billy had on
his knee?”
“That’s his surname,” Janet
said. She had become very sure
of herself during the past few
months, and their laughter
made up her mind. “If you
want to make a joke of it—
right here where he’s buried!”
Illogically, the murdered saint
had assumed for her the drawn
features of Bob Simpson.
“But who would murder
him?”
“Well,” Janet said, “Mr.
Blake left in December —and in
a great hurry! ”
And she made off along the
bank while Billy followed with
the pram and Babs sttimbled
amongst the tussocks, crying,
“Wait for me!”
ELSIE was no help. She just
sat rocking the fat baby and
saying, “Well, I never! Well,
I never did!”
“We’ll have to wait till Bob
comes in,” Janet said.
She stood aloof by the
window, watching the wind
shake the first delicate buds of
the quince-trees. They were
like little breasts amongst the
curling leaves. Sometimes she
had to lean right over the sill to
stop herself smiling at Billy’s
silly stories about buried warts;
but when she rushed out and
Bob laughed, too, it was too
much for her pride.
“Oh, that,” he said. “It’s a
weed, a noxious weed. Blake
and I salted a patch there and
left that to mark the tree.”
“See!” Billy laughed. “She
thought a saint had been
buried.”
“It says St. John.”
“St. John’s-wort’s a weed.”
And Bob lifted his eyebrows
and laughed openly for the first
time for months.
“Silly kids!”
Janet was furious.
“It, says killed ; why should
you write killed? Oh, you just
won’t talk. You’re frightened-
like you are of the ghost.”
They were in the kitchen now
and Elsie was rocking the baby
to and fro.
“He’s frightened of the ghost,
anyway.”
Elsie began to smirk, but Bob
put his coat down quietly.
“There was no ghost,” he
said. “Get that. And there’s
no ghost in this house, either.
But” —and he picked up the
chip of wood —“if I ever catch
up with that chap Blake I’ll
murder him. I will. Murder
him.”
The chip cracked between his
(Continued on page 23)


TRAVEL ROYAL—TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
ai
All that's best
in air travel
Fly 8.0.A.G. and enjoy the finest air travel I Air travel backed by
36 years experience of the air routes of the world ... by
36 years knowledge of the art of caring for passengers ... by
36 years of efficiency, courtesy and service.
Choose from luxury first-class travel on Majestic Services
(Monarch Service across the Atlantic) or lower fare Coronet Tourist
Services. Consult your Travel Agent for free trip-planning advice.
Book from Australia to Indonesia, Malaya, Burma,Thailand, Hong
Kong, Japan, Ceylon, India, Pakistan, Middle East, Africa, Europe,
Britain, U.S.A., Canada, Central and South America, Bermuda.
Information and reservations from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd . (. 8.0.A.C . General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A53/AUa
FL Y^BO
Shippo
By W.J.
DUNCAN
A FINE New Guinea
morning. The cloud-
blanket had risen
enough for the air-
craft to fly low over the moun-
tains, heading for the airstrip
in the valley. The passenger,
Macdonald, studied the ground
below. He was to walk along
the valley to find another airstrip.
When the aircraft first flew
in, a few weeks previously, all
the hill people had fled into the
jungle. Nothing in their folk-
lore had told them of such a
monstrous bird. Later they
realised that it was no evil spirit,
but something belong white-
man. Then a courageous few
ventured to the airstrip for a
closer view.
They arrived one day just as
the aircraft began its take-off.
With engine roaring, as in defiant
war-cry, the big bird flew
directly at them. It was too
much; they scampered back to
the shelter of the jungle.
After landing, Macdonald
checked-in with the patrol-
officer, reporting his mission.
“What reception will I get
from the natives?” he asked.
“Just go carefully with them.
Remember that they’ve had a
fright. Wait until they make
advances before moving-in.”
The patrol-officer offered to
provide some prisoners to carry
baggage, under the control of a
police-boy.
“The police-boy is very little
protection,” he continued. “Keep
out of trouble. Regard the
police-boy as the Government-
stamp. I’ll also send Shippo with
you.’’
“Who’s Shippo?”
“A cheeky little runt who
knows all the answers. He’ll
manage things for you. Manage
you, too, if you’re not awake-
up to him.”
TN the early light of next morn-
-1 ing, Macdonald took charge
of the team. There were half-a-
dozen boys wearing prison lava-
lavas. One of them could speak
the local dialects, and would be
the interpreter. There was a
police-boy, leaning on his rifle,
half-awake and uninterested.
And a boy who must have had
monkeys playing in the ancestral
tree.
“Me Shippo, master,” he
grinned.
He was about five-feet in
height, and wiry. His feet were
large and flat, with toes splayed
at five-minutes-past-eleven. He
carried his wardrobe, a white
lava-lava round his waist, and
another wrapped round his fuzzy
head. He had a shotgun slung
over his shoulder like a club,
butt to the rear. It was both
weapon and badge of authority.
He held it by the muzzle with
his right hand, and, whichever
direction he happened to be
facing, the muzzle pointed dis-
concertingly at somebody.
“Rather a menace with that
gun, 1 isn’t he?” Macdonald
remarked to the patrol-officer.
“I see that he has a crooked
forefinger. If it gets caught in
the trigger, anyone near by is
liable to be blasted.”
“You keep the cartidges, but
let him carry the gun. It makes
him feel a big-shot.” Turning to
Shippo, the patrol-officer said,
“You savvy, you take orders
from this master.”
“Yes, sir. Me savvy.”
“And don’t make any trouble
with the hill-kanakas.”
“Suppose kanakas come, me
stand behind master.” Pointing
to Macdonald’s broad shoulders,
he said, “This master big feller.
Me hide behind him.”
“Just so long as you do as
you’re told,” retorted Mac-
donald. “Let’s get moving. Back
in a week or so, I hope,” he
called to the patrol-officer.
'T'HE first stretch was level
going. Macdonald marched
at the head of the team, with
Shippo close behind. Satisfied
that there was no cartridge in the
shotgun he soon forgot the
waving muzzle behind his back.
Shippo chattered all the time,
remarks about the straggling
carriers, his poor opinion of
police-boys, any topic which
flitted through his mind. Occa-
sionally Macdonald replied, but
mostly he saved his breath.
At the end of the first hour
they halted to let the carriers
catch up and have a short rest.
Macdonald removed his hat to
wipe the sweat from his bald
head. Shippo watched him, head
on one side like a perky bird.
“Master, what’s the matter
you no got grass (hair)?”
“Fashion belong me.”
“Ah!” Shippo studied the
shining pate. “I think missus
belong you pull it out, eh?”
“No, you cheeky beggar.
Just lost it, that’s all.”
The jungle was silent, its
brooding disturbed only by the
incidental noises of the party’s
movements. But from the dis-
tance and higher up, like bird-
calls, came the yodelling of the
hjllmen, passing news from
ridge to ridge, village to village.
News, probably, of the approach-
ing white-man.
Macdonald noticed that the
carriers were now bunched and
following close behind him, in-
stead of being strung-out like
random thoughts. He remarked
on it to Shippo.
“All this man frightened.
Police-boy, too, frightened.”
Shippo spat. “Police-boy no
good.”
He was smoking an evil-
smelling cigarette made of
twist-tobacco wrapped in news-
paper. A puff from it would
bring down any insect within
range.
Macdonald stepped out of
range of the puff to ask why the
boys were frightened. He was
told that one of the less endear-
ing habits of the hillmen was an
occasional liking for human
meat, and that any native
straggling alone in the jungle
might be hit on the head and
dragged off to the cookpots.
“This hill-kanaka something
nothing.” Shippo spat again.
“They no got musket. Bow-and-
arrow, that’s all. S’pose all he
like fight, me shoot him.”
“You won’t unless I tell you.
And point that damn’ gun some-
where else. Just remember that
we’ve got three guns only and
they’ve got lots of bows-and-
arrows.”
By early afternoon the party
were climbing out of the jungle
up the grassy foothills. The
track clambered steeply up to
a sharp ridge running back to
join the mountains and timber-
line higher up. It was on such
grassy ridges that the hill-
villages were built, for defence.
The approaches to the ridge
were so very steep that Mac-
donald grabbed handfuls of
grass to help him climb. He
felt sure that, should he slip,
he would slide all the way down
again. >
Nearing the crest, he looked up
in time to see three heads bob
down into hiding. Hill-kanakas.
Warily, he moved on to the
crest. Nobody in sight. The
three men were either hiding in
the long grass, or had slipped
away down the far side. Eyes
alert for any movement, he
paused for breath, and to wait
for the rest of the line to
come up.
He could see the village, about
half-a-mile farther along the
crest. The three men were
probably scouts watching his
approach. There were no indica-
tions of hostility, no signs warn-
ing him off.
“Look, master,” Shippo called.
“A pig. Quick, give me cart-
ridge.”
“No. It belongs' to the
kanakas.”
“Good kai-kai, master,” in
hurt reproach. •
“Shippo, I want to make
friends, not to start a war. Shoot-
ing a pig will start trouble
quicker than tampering with
women. Confine your energies
to talking. How you could find
breath to chatter all the way up
that climb beats me.”
“Fashion belong me, master,”
Shippo grinned.
Within a couple of hundred
yards of the village, Macdonald
halted his team, to await develop-
ments. Only a few old men
could be seen in the village. No
women, nor children. All the
younger men would be hiding
in the grass. They, like Mac-
donald, were watching the atti-
tude of the old men.
TyrACDONALD sat on some
baggage, opened a tin of
cigarettes, lighted one. It was
about half-smoked when the old
men came slowly along and
squatted in the grass on their
haunches.
Macdonald handed the tin
of cigarettes to Shippo, and told
him to pass them round, one
each to the old men. Shippo
handed out the cigarettes, taking
two for himself, one to smoke
now, and one behind his ear
for after.
The cigarettes were accepted,
and lit in silence.
“Tell the interpreter to explain
to them, Shippo. Tell them I
want to go two more days’
journey along the valley to find
a place for the big bird to come
down. Tell them that the big
bird is a friend of all kanakas.
And ask them if we can camp
here for the night.”
The explanation was received
without comment. The cig-
arettes were smoked until almost
burning lips, then stamped out.
There was. no apparent signal
back to the village, but Macdon-
ald looked round to see women
coming out with food.
So he was to be received. His
boys shouldered their packs, and,
led by the old men, the party
moved in.
The top of the ridge was
not much wider than a pencil-
mark. Sitting on it like a blob
was the stockade, a wooden
fence with a blockhouse
inside. Clustered around were
the huts of the natives, clinging
tightly to the steep slopes of the
ridge.
The huts were built directly
on to the ground with no space
beneath. There were no doors,
entry being made by a small
aperture about five-feet up in
the front wall. Many of the
huts had a skull dangling on a
cord from the eaves.
Shippo said these were skulls
of former owners. Macdonald
hoped he would not qualify as
a “former owner” during the
night.
Women came out to attend to
domestic chores, but ignored
the visitors. Children appeared,
too, wide-eyed, curious. More
encouraging was to see the young
men quietly materialising from
somewhere behind the huts.
They were slight and wiry,
dressed in a mere gesture in front
and nothing behind. The hair
was worn in long, greasy strings.
Some had animal bones through
the nose septums. The faces
were sharp, predatory, and,
thought Macdonald, the teeth
were strong enough to bite into
human flesh.
There were no smiles for the
white-man. Macdonald gave
presents to the old men, who
received them rather as a
tribute than a gift, with no
acknowledgment but a grunt.
The old men pointed to a
(Continued on next page)


WM
M
1
\Vi
m
gSi
\
m
m
m
I
. s
t
m
m
888
■
QiufcAf&i
tfcjC
Ocmsim...
• • • in a Dinner Suit by Stamirux.
Your “Special-Occasion” suit has to be
special. .. comfortable, yet smoothly-fitted; smart,
yet styled with careful good-taste; durable, to
give you years and years of wear.
Stamina Dinner Suits are tailored ...
from top-grade Crusader Pure Wool Cloth
selected, styled, cut by specialists . . . for men of
dis crimination.
A Stamina Dinner Suit is’ pre-tailoring
at its superb best...
CLOTHES
ASK FOR
Stamina
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
D 51.113
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA (Divorce).
Launceston District Registry.
No. 63 of 1954.
TO RONALD HENRY HORACE FORD
formerly of 9 Glasgow Street Launceston
in Tasmania.—TAKE NOTICE that a
Petition has been filed in this Court en-
dorsed with a notice to you to appear and
answer the charges in the Petition of
VERNA GRACE FORD of Launceston in
Tasmania Married Woman praying for
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion IN DEFAULT of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said charges proved and
pronounce judgment therein your absence
notwithstanding AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid
within fifty days after the publication of
this notice an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania, Macquarie
Street, Hobart. DATED this 30th day of
November, 1955. —H. R. DOBBIE, Prin-
cipal Registrar.
hut and indicated that Mac-
donald might sleep there. He
looked at it with misgiving. Very
little sunlight penetrated through
that small window to freshen the
interior. Its previous occupant
seldom washed water, drawn
from the river a thousand-feet
below and carried up to the
ridge in bamboo pipes, was in
too limited a supply for washing.
And, although there were now
no human occupants,'there was
strong probability of the hut
harboring less desirable forms
of life.
He turned to find Shippo
watching him closely.
“I think this house no good,
master,” said Shippo.
“So do I. But where else can
we go?”
“Sleep there, master,” point-
ing to the stockade. “S’pose
you sleep out here in house,
kanaka can come along night.
Now what name? You in
house, no can fight. Kanaka
can kill’im you. S’pose you
sleep there,” again he waved to-
wards the stockade, “all right.
All kanaka no can make
trouble.”
'THROUGH the gateway into
the . stockade, now open,
Macdonald could see that the
roof of the blockhouse over-
hung the walls by about three-
feet, providing ample shelter for
a stretcher.
The old men were looking as
sour as a hostess who finds a
gate-crasher in an exclusive
party. The atmosphere in the
village was colder than the
mountain air. Macdonald
wondered what it would be like
to sleep in the open, in the long
grass, if he could get back to
the long grass.
But Shippo had no doubts,
“What’s the matter —all you
kanaka no got savvy? Look!”
With gun muzzle pointed at the
small window of the hut, he
continued. “Backside belong
kanaka all same snake. Kanaka
can go inside. Now, master!
Look him!” —he pointed with
his left hand —“backside belong
master all same pig. Big. Big
too much.”
And with much pantomime
Shippo demonstrated that if
Macdonald tried to climb
through the window he would be
stuck. He would be there all
night, continued Shippo, and his
posterior would freeze in the
night air. Surely, concluded
Shippo, a whitened skull grin-
ning in front of the hut was
enough—the kanakas could not
want white balloons as well.
Slow smiles lightened the
gloom. The old men went into
a huddle, gabbled amongst them-
selves, then broke into guffaws.
Shippo grinned at Macdonald.
“All right now, master. Me
Shippo. Savvy too much.”
This with such smug com-
placency that Macdonald was
strongly tempted to inflict some
indignity on Shippo’s own pos-
terior, but Shippo stepped
quickly away and directed the
carriers into the stockade.
When the mountain mists
came down on the village, Mac-
donald shivered. Fearing an
attack of malaria, he got into
bed early, dosed himself, and
was soon asleep.
He woke about four-o’clock in
the morning, in a mild sweat,
but otherwise feeling well. Fog
wreathed about, with rainbow
reflections of a light near the
head of his stretcher. He twisted
round to look at the light.
There was Shippo, squatting
on a blanket. Another blanket
was wrapped round his
shoulders. His knees were
jack-knifed up to his. chin. A
lighted hurricane-lamp was on
the ground between his legs, and
his lava-lava, wrapped around
his legs and the lower part of
his body, confined the heat from
the lamp to his legs and body.
Central-heating, New Guinea
fashion.
“What’s the matter, Shippo?
You too cold to sleep?”
“Me all right, master.”
“Have you been sitting there
all night? Why?”
“You sick, master. You no
can savvy s’pose kanaka come
along night. Me sit here, look-
out, that’s all.”
“Oh.” Macdonald looked at
the monkey-face, serious for
once, and the tired eyes. So
Shippo had been mounting
guard while he, Macdonald,
doped with medicine, had been
sleeping. As he said later to the
patrol-officer, what can one do
with a native who makes a fool
of you in front of kanakas by
day, then mounts watch over
you by night.
“Thank you, Shippo,” he
said. “I’m not sick any more.
You go sleep now.”
Shippo doused the lamp, and
curled up in his blankets.
ON the next stage of the
march, Macdonald was
tolerant of Shippo’s endless
chatter, his jibes at the police-
boy, his generally impertinent
comments. They were nearing
the area for survey. Within a
few days, all going well, they
would be back at the patrol-
office, and then Macdonald
wanted, in some way, to show
appreciation of Shippo’s night-
watch. He began probing for
personal details.
“Where d’you come from,
Shippo? Where’s your village?”
“Long way.”
“That means anything in this
country. Is it down at the
beach?”
“Close up. On big river.”
“When I finish here, Shippo,
I’m going back to the beach.
S’pose I take you with me.
You can have a holiday in
your village. What d’you think
about that?”
Not much, it seemed.
“No, master.” Shippo stopped
on the track. No longer was the
muzzle of the shotgun pointed
indiscriminately at everyone —
it was pulled down to his body,
like the tail of an unhappy dog.
Plainly, his village was the one
subject on which Shippo had
nothing to say. His secret
trouble, maybe.
Macdonald had known a
soldier during the war who
could quickly be brought under
control by the threat of notifying
his wife of his whereabouts.
Perhaps Shippo, too, had his
troubles at home. The threat of
being sent home was, at any
rate, a means of reducing him to
silence, of subduing him should
occasion demand.
“Aha, Shippo.” Macdonald
smirked. “You got shame, eh?
Just like me, when you tell
kanakas that I’ve a backside like
a pig. Now that I savvy about
you, you’d better control your
tongue in future.”
Shippo did, for the rest of the
morning. He trudged along
behind Macdonald, a dumb
midget. Deflated and miserable.
Afternoon. Another sweating
climb up steep slopes to a narrow
ridge. Reaching the crest, the
village could be seen, about a
mile away, higher up near the
timber-line. The party was half-
way to the village when yells
were heard over to the right.
There, racing down a side-track
to intercept them, came a group
of hillmen.
Macdonald went on steadily
until he approached the point
where the hillmen were drawn
up in a line across the track.
They had arrows fitted, and
bows bent, ready to shoot on
a signal from the' leader.
The air seemed very still. The
carriers stopped, and dropped
their loads. And waited. Ready
to scatter.
A FALSE move now would
bring swift death. Just as a
dog instinctively bites a man
who is afraid of him, so, Mac-
donald knew, any indication of
fear from him would send the
arrows flying. He was tense and
wary. But he must show confi-
dence and friendliness.
Slowly, he brought his
cigarettes from his pocket. He
took one, tapped it on the tin,
lit it. The action gave him time
to think out the next move. And
playing the waiting game helped
to ease the tension; the arms
pulling back the bpw-strings
would begin to tire. Already he
could see reaction. He was look-
ing directly into the eyes of the
leader of the hillmen. He saw
the leader’s eyes begin to waver
as the feral look changed to one
of doubt.
Quietly, he told Shippo to
order the interpreter to do his
piece. Silence. Next, the inter-
preter said that Macdonald was
going to hand round cigarettes.
Macdonald stepped forward.
Tension increased. Bow-strings
seemed tighter. But he had to
keep moving. His tight feeling
inside demanded release in
action. And the least hesitation
now would be a false move.
There was no reaction. No
move from the hillmen. No
sound anywhere except the
whisper of long grass brushing
against his legs.
Unknown to Macdonald,
Shippo was but a step behind.
Stopping to offer a cigarette to
the leader, Macdonald looked
along the line. These were hill-
men, as in the other villages.
Same build ; same expression ;
same hair-dressing in greasy
strings.
All except the leader. He was
bald; unusual in a native, he
had only a fringe of hair above
the ears.
Shippo stepped up, and took
off Macdonald’s hat.
“Look,” he called out.
“Master no got grass. Head
belong him all the same back-
side.”
He stood in front of the head-
man. “You, too, eh?”
He walked round the
bewildered headman. “Backside
all the same. You brother
belong master, I think?”
Putting Macdonald’s hat on
the native, he stood back to
inspect. “Now you white-
man, eh?”
The comical appearance of the
headman was matched by the
hot, embarrassed pate of Mac-
donald. There were roars of
laughter. The hillmen put away
their bows, and gathered round
in a circle, jabbering, joking with
rude gestures.
“Blast you, Shippo. Did you
have to put my hat on his filthy
head?”
“Everything all right now,
master,” Shippo chuckled.
“Maybe. But don’t mind my
feelings, will you? Damn it, I
will send you back to your
village for this.”
Shippo grinned a vote of
confidence. Master banish him!
Oh, no. He was Shippo, five-
feet of big-shot. *


Saves money
©
Per unit of belt or drawbar h.p.,
the Fordson Major Diesel is
Australia’s lowest priced wheeled
tractor - and it has greater,
more versatile work capacity.
JpORDSON MAJOR is not too big and not too small.
It is powered and engineered for easy performance of
versatile work. Yet its price is Australia’s lowest for a tractor
of anywhere near comparable power or work capacity.
This means lower capital investment in plant and, through
continuous, year-round job after job, more profitable returns
from that lower investment. Low running costs and the
availability, always, of genuine parts and service through
Fordson Dealers are also big economy factors.
DIESEL
MODEL
complete and including :
• 2 Speed Belt Pulley • Power Take
Off • Electric Lighting and Starting
Equipment • Tachourmeter
TYRES: M x 28, 6 ply, rear 7.50
x 16, 6 ply, front.
Optional equipment extra:
Hydraulic Lift, 3-point Linkage £76
Hydraulic Remote Control Kit
(SAE/ASAE Standard) £73. Raised
Power Take off Assambly, £3O
Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plants.
Saves .
muscles
One man operation mid range of
time and labour saving equipment.
Fordson Major measures up to any kind of job . . .
heavy ploughing or discing . . . planting or cultivating
. . . harvesting . . . maintenance like terracing, building
silage trenches or dams . . . digging postholes or sawing
wood . . . mowing hay or transporting equipment or
supplies. Its system of “touch-control” hydraulics including
NEW Remote Control Kit and the range of equipment Fordson
Dealers can supply mean a tremendous saving of labour.
FMI23
0
CDC 3
Australia’s greatest name in
modern, low-cost
Your local Fordson Dealer will supply further details.
FORD MOTOR COM PANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
L!SfFH-'TO THE FORD SHOW ON ANY OF THE 65 STATIONS IN THE NATION-WIPE WEEKLY BROADCAST
.. , ,
great hands, and, as if released,
his auger flowed out.
“And now get out, he
shouted. ‘Stupid, prying, half-
baked bloody kids! Clear out!
That goes for you, too, Else, if
you like.”
“And take your broken chairs
with you,” he cried from the
door, pitching one into the
hedge.
“And your pram!
“And your bloody wash-
stand!”
His voice followed them on
the wind and the chairs swayed
amongst the quince-blossom like
giant birds.
Thev waited for some time for
pi s ; e u v t u e cre ek but she
fjjdn’t mme 5
‘wJ were onlv trvimr to help
.. „ R :m v 8
’ y ’
p nnrl armied all
H thhufEueh
, n a l’ e b Janetsaid
■ oL P didn’t even
nota , R]l . - H
adS w" e/ 1 John’s-wort •
* . h * k h t th ’
a £ , •, J mn | v Rnh
fe? 1 ’ , t
1 here wasn t a gfi •
( „°, w d ® you kri n W :.
I half-knew all .the time.
Dh, we’ve been fools.
That was all she would ever
say about it, and for months she
~ , , ~
wouldnt go near the cottage^
Then one day they were pass-
ing and Elsie called them in to
see the new furniture,
It was plywood, varnished,
all nice and new from the store,
and the baby had a new cot
with new bead-panels in it, and
Elsie laughed all the time ; and
they ate pink cakes on the
veranda just as they had in the
E rst days of her marriage,
® ut w b e h Bob came in it was
different r sa , t * or a . wt T e
a £ff, au ® j*; a ltte ’ t ? 0 ’ but
children left soon alter. Ihe
only . way ~ lay could , ever
explain the change was that he
ha T B ™ wn-up \ and , w . A r e
and , S 1? spoke about the
garden, she seemed grown-up,
!?°’ as ff the little flower-bed by
the step had some special serious
* or n if m ’ « „ *
Don t pull the tops off, Elsie
sal f ,
T As tj ey w ere she called
ack ' A/l - „ u Q \a
Tell your Mum, she said,
T W ! re ha ,y i ” s a n ot E er baby -
J ust say that Id llke her to
kn °w- , . , „ .
1 . f J? rget ’ she Ca ed
from the hedge,
Let’s gallop, Billy said.
But Janet wouldn t. She rode
home by the creek where the
willow-leaves were falling again
into the water.
A TOUCH OF WIZARDRY
ABOUT this time of the
year everybody is still in
the toils paying-off the
Christmas-presents ticked-
up, so that when I received
an oleaginous offer from a
firm to open an account with
them under the most gene-
rous-sounding terms I emitted
a hollow laugh and ripped it up
forthwith. If mink coats had
been reduced to 15-bob each the
strife would still have to make
do with her old lapin.
But that firm was certainly
persistent. Unfortunately, the
third appeal fell into the hands
of Agapanthus, who waved the
invitation in front of me with
her eyes shining, and vowed
ecstatically that the firm was in
the nature of a philanthropical
institution.
“It’s simply wonderful /” she
exclaimed (Agapanthus con-
ducts her conversations practi-
cally t in italics). “Just fancy!
We can spend up to twenty-
pounds and don’t have to pay it
back for five months. It’s the
opportunity of a lifetime! I’ve
always wanted to be able to book
things up like that. You can
often miss a real bargain just
because you don’t happen to
have the ready-money on you.”
Now, a man less experienced
than I in the battle-strategy of
matrimony would at this junc-
ture have hopped-in to advance
his most potent arguments
against the proposition.
All these argumentative thrusts
would be riposted with the
greatest of skill, and before he
realised it he would be at the
credit-manager’s desk waiting to
sign on the dotted line.
Long jousting in the conjugal
lists has, I may modestly claim,
vouchsafed me no little cunning.
All my polemical leanings were
urging me to unload a heap of
strong verbiage. But where the
angels fear to tread, who am I
to rush in and finish-up doing
a barefoot samba on the red-hot
economic coals?
So I simply said, “It seems a
pretty good proposition, my love.
I’ll call on them tomorrow and
see what they have to say about
it.”
You see? No arguments, no
sulks, no wrecked digestion
through eating a meal in the
tense, atmosphere of an armed
truce, no home-truths flung
around with abandon as a pre-
lude to an adamantine banning
of the idea.
So delightfully simple to agree
with her in toto —and then to
quietly torpedo the whole thing,
and she none the wiser, even
sympathising with my failure to
get an account opened through
causes quite beyond my control.
What an advantage to be hard-
headed and sympathetic to-
gether !
To the task, then, of sabo-
taging the whole works. The
store credit-m anager was
obviously delighted when I cast-
up on his mat early the next
morning, washing his hands
enthusiastically in the air. Dis-
illusionment would, for him, not
be long delayed.
He began by asking if I had
a savings-bank account. I re-
plied that I always liked to do
business with a man who had a
keen sense of humor, and went
on to disclose that the account
I ran at the Commonwealth
Savings Bank probably would
still be at the figure it had been
for the last eight years, to wit,
two-and-fourpence, unless in-
terest had been added to it in the
interim. I added that many a
time during financial crises I
had been sorely tempted to
draw the lot and close the
account, but had stoutly resisted
this in the hope that I might,
when my fortunes changed, build
on it. He looked at me, I
thought, rather queerly.
“You run a current-account
with one of the private-banks?”
he asked next.
“Yes, the Commercial Union,”
I replied pleasantly. “I’m a bit
beyond the seven-hundred limit
they set, but, then, they don’t
seem to be worrying unduly
about it, so why should I?
Next year I hope to at least keep
the interest down.”
“You own your own place.
hp asked.
“Practically,” I replied,
frankly. “Anyway, only four
more payments and I’ll have the
fly paid off.”
“The fly? What do you
mean?” he pursued, and I could
see he was greatly puzzled.
“Just what I said,” I
announced calmly. “Surely
you wouldn’t expect me and my
family to live in a tent without
a fly, especially with all the
uncertain weather we’ve been
having! And the land will be
unencumbered after only 15
more quarterly payments.”
He seemed to swallow hard
a t that, but came back again
gamely.
“Are there any firms or com-
panies with whom you have had
dealings lately, and to whom we
could refer? It’s only a form-
ality, of course.”
1 thought carefully .for a
minute. “Yes,” I said at last,
“Now, let me see . . . There’s
the Cremation Society.”
“The what?”
“You heard. You see,” I ex-
plained, “I have put my funeral
on the lay-by. It costs one-and-
a-zack a week, and I think my
arrears of contribution would
last
“Then,” I went on inexorably,
“there’s Luke McGluke, my s.-p.
bookie. You can ring him up,but
you’d better take the precaution
of using an asbestos phone.
“And the third,” I swept on
enthusiastically, before he could
interrupt, “is the Reverend Wil-
fred Gentle—he married us over
twenty years ago and is still
waiting for his fee. Oh, and I
forgot to mention—my boot-
repairer is threatening to apply
for a sequestration-order against
my estate — that’s the best joke
I’ve heard since the one about
Jane Russell and the casting-
director. I’m sure that as a
credit-customer I’d be as good a
debit as any firm ever had.
Good-morning.”
And before he could get his
face closed I’d grabbed my cady
and shot through.
Two days later I returned
from the treadmill to be greeted
by an ecstatic Agapanthus wav-
ing a letter.
“Goody!” she exclaimed
triumphantly. “You mail have
been at your persuasive best with
Sleet’s, you darling\ We can
open an account with a limit of
twenty-pounds, and here are two
specimen-signature slips—one
for each of us! I can book’
thinga up at the store, too.
You thought of everything ...
Now come in and tell me how
you managed it.”
BO.


BRISBANE WOOL FESTIVAL
SHORT STORY COMPETITION
sponsored by “Queensland Country Life”
Newspaper Pty. Ltd.
Maximum of 3000 words with background of some
aspect of Wool Industry, preferably life on a sheep
station. Prize for the winning entry will be 25 gns.
An additional 25 gns. will be awarded at the
discretion of the judges if other entries merit it.
Entries close on February 29. Results will be
announced during the Wool Festival to be held in
Brisbane from March 11 to \ 7.
Entry forms obtainable from—
“ Queensland Country Life,” Box 71 IK, G.P.0.,
Brisbane; or
The Wool Festival Committee, C/o Chamber of
Manufactures, 74 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
HP'
first with
'Coldßubber
... new miracle tyre
♦
More miles! Cheaper miles!
Safer miles! "Cold Rubber", the
man-made miracle, has done
it by increasing tyre mileage
to heights never considered
possible before. This has
been one of the greatest
developments in tyre
history in years. Good-
year first with "Cold
Rubber" has come up
with the tyre to take
you further safer/
Greater Safety
Way in advance of any other
tyre material, "Cold Rubber” has
a molecular structure twice as
compact and far tougher than
ordinary rubber. It takes fierce
braking and tough going in a
way never before possible
reduces puncture and blowout
risks to absolute minimum.
Up to 22% More Mileage
It’s been proved! The more compact structure of Goodyear "Cold Rubber” tyres
from which their amazing toughness is derived resists road abrasion as never
before, transforms itself into thousands of extra miles of safer-than-ever wear
. . . makes them the biggest mileage tyres Goodyear has ever known.
GOODYEAR
Tubeless and Tyres-with-Tubes wtfh "COLD RUBBER"
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of the verse “A Foxhunter’s
Dream.”—62s4.
Words of the verse “The Idol of
Katmandu.”—62ss.
Words of the verse “The Dying
Stockman,” beginning:—
Open wide the shutters, Harry,
Let me feel the evening breeze....
—6256.
To buy copy of Heaven Knows, Mr-
Allison, by Charles Shaw, published
in London by Henry Mueller (1952).
—6257.
Information Sought
Some information on the wind-
jammer Herzogin Cecilie?
A four-masted barque of 3242
registered tons, 324 ft. in length, she
was built in 1902 at Geestemunde
(Germany) for the Nord-Deutscher
Lloyd Line. Her figurehead was a
wood carving of a Duchess Cecilie,
her rig massive and lofty, all her
masts and yards of steel. Designed
as a schoolship to train 90 boys “in
the German manner,” she had
deliberately been given no aids to
lighten the task of bracing her and
handling her sails. She had 36 sails,
with 37,000 square-feet of canvas.
For the whole of World War I she
was interned at Coquimbo (South
America), was handed to the French
Government as reparations and in
1921 was sold for £4OOO to the
Finnish Erikson Line, of which she
became the flagship. She was then
engaged in the grain-trade, along
with another four-masted barque,
Port Lincoln (South Australia) to
Falmouth (Eng.) and other European
ports. In 1928, under Captain de
Cloux, she engaged in a race home
with another four-masted barque,
the Beatrice, reaching Falmouth 96
days out, as against Beatrices 114
days. (Australian author Alan
Villiers, who was on board Herzogin
Cecilie, described the race in his
Falmouth for Orders, and also in-
corporated it more briefly in The bet
of the Sails.} Some of her best
homeward-runs were 98 days in 1927
(best time of the gram-ships that
year), 96 in 1928 (best time by 18
days), 104 days in 1929 (third-best),
92 days in 1931 (best time). In 1936
she was wrecked at Salcombe, on the
English Channel, and was a total loss.
.* * * *
List of C. J. Dennis’s published
works ?
Backblock Ballads and Other
Verses, by “Den” (1913); The Aus-
tralaise: a parching Song (1915), a
leaflet reprinted from the Backblock
Ballads and dedicated to the A.1.F.;
The Songs of a Sentimental Bloke
(1915)— many impressions of this
Australian edition were printed, and
it was also printed overseas \ j. he
Moods of Ginger Mick (1916); The
Battle of the Wazzir (1916)—banned
by military censorship, only a few
copies issued in the form of printers
proofs; The Glugs of Gosh (19,17),
Doreen, a booklet (1917); Digger
Smith (1918); Backblock Ballads
and Later Verses (1918), which
includes many verses from the 1913
book; Jim of the Hills: a Story in
Rhyme (1919); A Book for Kids
(1921), issued again in 1935 with title
changed to Roundabout; Rose of
Spadgers (1924), a sequel to Ginger
Mick; I Dips Me Lid to the Sydney
Harbor Bridge (1932), a leaflet
intended as a commercial advertise-
ment ; and The Singing Garden
(1935), mainly contributions in prose
and verse to Melbourne “Herald.”
* * * *
List of biographical works on C. J.
Dennis, and/or other articles of
reference about him ?
There are two or three full-length
biographies, The Making of a
Sentimental Bloke, by A. H. Chis-
holm (1946), Some Notes About C. J.
Dennis, by Guy Innes (printed in
Toronto, Canada, in 1918) and Down
the Years, by Margaret Herron,
Dennis’s widow (1953). Articles
dealing with Dennis include “C. J.
Dennis as Man and Poet,” by P. B.
Jenkin and others, in the “Australian
National Review” (1938); “The
Laureate of the Larrikin,” by R. H.
Croll, in the “Australian National
Review” (May, 1939); leaflets,
articles, etc., printed as part of the
C. J. Dennis Memorial, Auburn
(S.A.), 1953 ; “Of a Bonzer Aus-
tralian Poet,” by E. V. Lucas in his
Cloud and Silver (1916); article by
J. Sibi in the “Lone Hand” (March,
1916); “How a Sentimental Bloke
Came to Toolangi,” by F. Sternberg,
in “The Home” (Dec., 1922); a dis-
cussion of Dennis’s work in The Fiery
Crags, by F. W. Boreham (1928).
Newspaper-articles on Dennis include
those in Melbourne “Herald,” by
Guy Innes (May 12, 1922), Melbourne
“Argus” (June 22, 1938), and Mel-
bourne “Herald,” by A. H. Chis-
holm (Nov. 13, 1943). Bulletin
articles include the “Red Page”
review (21/8 / ’l3), when Backblock
Ballads first appeared, an appreciation
in “Plain English” (29/6 / ’3B) and a
“Red Page” review by Ronald
McCuaig (8/8/’5l) of the Selected
Verse of C. J. Dennis, edited by
A. H. Chisholm.
Brief Answers
5.8. C.: (1) The development of
tramway-services in Sydney began
in 1879, undertaken by the Govern-
ment in pursuit of its policy of State-
ownership of the principal land-
services. (2) Up to 1930 both
railway- and tramway-operations
were conducted by the Department
of Railways and Tramways. The
passing of the Transport Act (1930)
resulted in the separation of these
functions and the setting-up of the
Department of Road Transport and
Tramways. (3) In 1930 omnibus-
services in the Sydney and Newcastle
areas were conducted solely by private
operators, there being 219 services in
the Sydney district using 587 buses
and 77 services in the Newcastle
district using 126. (4) The plan for
the replacement of trams by buses
was prompted by the success of the
compression-ignition-type bus, and in
1937 a plan was formulated which
had as its object the total replace-
ment of trams by compression-
ignition buses within a period of 15
years; the war intervened. (5) At
the June 30, 1955, count, the depart-
ment’s stock was as follows: trams,
810* trolley-buses, 25; buses, 1314
1115 of these being used in Sydney,
199 at Newcastle. All are of the
compression-ignition type G.D.:
Magnifico was by Magpie out of a
mare named Charleville; he brought
4000gns. in the sale-ring
Eversley: (1) Reserpine is a drug
derived from the Indian root,
Rauwolfia; Serpasil is Ciba’s trade-
name for tablets which contain
Reserpine. These tablets have been
given wide publicity for cases of
hypertension. In some cases excel-
lent results have been achieved. (2)
They may be purchased without a
prescription, but it is understood that
they may be later restricted. (3) The
tablets should never be used by a
patient except under strict medical
supervision S.R. Mac: Mr.
Symonds’s business-address is Ralph
Symonds, Ltd., Holland-street,
Alexandria, N.S.W “Queens-
land” : (1) Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
suggest Darling’s Ribbons and
Medals and Gordon’s British Battles
and Medals, both of which, however,
are at present being reprinted. Best
to keep in touch with them for dates
of republication. (2) Fishman’s The
Seven Men of Spandau (205.) and
A Train of Powder, by Rebecca
West (345. 9d.), obtainable from
Angus and Robertson’s.... S.K.T.:
George Sand was the pen-name of
Armandine Lucile Aurore Dudevant.
A.R.Mc.: A sphygmograph is
an instrument for recording -the
movements of the pulse and hence
the variations in blood-pressure....
T.J.W.: Geldings were barred from
the English Derby in 1904; the last
gelding to win the Derby was
Clacquer in 1901... .W.F.: The
word “robot” is derived from the
Czech robit, meaning “work.” It
has now passed into current usage
in English as a result of the trans-
lation into English by Paul Selver of
Karl Capek’s play “R.U.R.”
(“Rossum’s Universal Robots”) in
1923 L.A.: Damon Runyon’s
Guys and Dolls was published in
1932.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
'Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
H.G.: That sentimental trifle
wouid be more at home in a
women’s magazine... .A.McC.:
Merely a prose version of Thomas
Spenser’s “How M’Dougal Topped
the 5c0re”....5.J.8.: Somehow we
couldn’t visualise the old lady as
being “the smartest cat-burglar in
town” K.M.: An occasional full-
stop, not to mention a comma or
two, would make for easier reading.
p.W.: “High Jinks in a Salvation
Army Home on Pension Day” not
for us, but you might try the war
Cry”... .C. 8.5.: Softhearted house-
breaker who filled child’s money-box
with shillings he had stolen from gas-
meter deserves to be expelled from
the Burglars’ Union E.L.W.: The
bushfire season always brings us at
least a dozen poems modelled on
Alice Werner’s famous “Bannerman
of the Dandenong” J.C.: As
much as we were impressed by your
repertoire of salty oaths we could not
accept that sea-yarn F.X.08.: It
is a long, long time now since you
last tried to sell us an article on tne
wrongs of Irel md. As before, it was
rejected... .G.R.8.: “Percy, the
Pickpocket,” is now plying his trade
in the wastepaper-basket H.b.M..
Female lion-tamer who was afraid or
mice is a stock comic-character....
H.C.J.: “I intend to keep on trying
until I break into print.” well,
Henry, you have a tremendous joo
ahead of you M.D.: You will
have to use better bait than that to
get a nibble at 252 George-street.
T...V.J.: “Without the help of a
rhyming dictionary this poem woul
never have been completed. inar
is very evident C.V.R.: I have
devised a story-plot machine and
will soon be able to supply you with
an unlimited number of stories o
an extraordinary nature. ror
instance, one I am working on now
concerns an African witchdoctor
who meets a Maori girl m Venice.
They decide to go in search of me
Loch Ness monster.” We await the
future with considerable apprehen-
sion. .. .F.R.: The Bulletin is a*
the medium for “stories for school
b0y5”....J.M.H.: And, whatever
gave you the idea that we we
interested in fairy-tales?... .UJr
Parson’s daughter becomes a street
walker; her father’s curate rescues
her from a life of shame. No. •• •
E.J.R.: All three— A Visit to the
Zoo” “A Trip to Manly” and A
Sg°ht at\u„a P Par k --are on the
S s rfe'4'?ouh Y avereh,oo
many books about gangsMs and
gangsters molls W.R.8.. l
lived up to the fine promise of he
opening sentence: “On the monuhg
after his marriage, Henry reauseu
with a sudden shock that be had beg,
by some strange accident, _ married
to the wrong girl ....A.8..
month passes without our meeti B
those confidence-men at „
couple of times J.-M-. T .
Who Knew Rasputin was quietly
ushered out of the office.... • • jj
We are growing a trifle weary of
soaks and their crying J g ■
E D W • We are prepared to bet tne
price of a schooner that you neve
spent “one glorious week onadeseri
island with a French mannequin.


"Sunshine In Music"
MOZART: 200th Anniversary
By S. W. KEOUGH
TWO days hence, on Janu-
ary 27, festivals will begin
practically all over the
civilised world to com-
memorate the 200th anniversary
of the birth of one of the
immortals of music—by far. the
most versatile genius of the
complex art of -composition the
world has produced—Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart.
He was born at Salzburg, in
Austria —the city holds a great
music-festival yearly in his
honor. His parents are reputed
to have been the handsomest
pair in the town. From his
mothfer, daughter of a lay-
official at the court of the prince-
Archbishop Sigismundus, he
inherited the keen sense of
humor that was to be an invalu-
able counterweight to the pull
of genius, the relentless urge to
create and the bitter disappoint-
ments that were to plague his
short life.
His mother had no talent for
music, but his father, Leopold,
was vice - kappelmeister and
Court-composer to Sigismundus,
and was a fine violinist and first-
rate teacher. About the time of
Wolfgang’s birth he published a
book on violin-playing which
was to become the standard
work all over Europe for the
next half-century.
The seventh and last child of
the Mozarts, Wolfgang was
born frail, and five of the six
others were dead —such was the
infant-mortality rate in that age
of epidemics, crude medicine
and cruder hygiene. So, 'early
the day after he was born, he
was whisked across the icy
town-square to the cathedral, to
be christened before it was too
late. Though later he survived
miraculously attacks of typhoid
and smallpox, his precarious
physique was to be a major
handicap throughout his life.
Leopold, who began develop-
ing the pianistic talent shown
early by his daughter Maria
Anna (“Nannerl”; five years
senior to Wolfgang), noted the
three-year-old boy’s interest in
the clavichord (ancestor of the
piano); by the time he was four
the boy was picking out chords
on the instrument, and his father
began giving him serious lessons.
At five he was composing
little minuets; then he began
learning the violin. Leopold,
sensing the budding of genius,
started him off on a rigidly-
disciplined musical education.
At six he emerged as the greatest
child-prodigy the world has
known.
Leopold justifies analysis on
his own account. He was a
character of some complexity.
Pious, austere, humorless,
shrewd and calculating, he
developed an affection for his
wonder-child that became
almost pathological; but he was
no indulgent parent. He kept
Wolfgang under an iron hand
for 21 years. Selflessly he sac-
rificed his own career to give
him as sound an education as
any boy ever got. He became
a tireless propagandist for his
son’s music and executional
gifts, a skilled organiser of tours.
But it is strongly to be suspected
that the fanatical lengths to
which he later went to prevent
his son marrying were prompted
by a hope that he himself would
enjoy a luxurious old age when
Wolfgang had won not only
fame but wealth.
When the boy was six and his
sister 11 (Maria Anna was by
then an excellent pianist) the
father took them on a concert-
tour, the first of a long succes-
sion—bouncing over bad roads
during iron-hard winters in un-
comfortable post-chaises, eating
vile food at wretched inns, and
getting to bed at, for children,
unnatural hours.
At Munich they played before
the Elector Maximilian Joseph
of Bavaria. Thence to Vienna,
where the children performed
before the Empress Maria
Theresa and her family. That
mother of so many consorts of
crowned heads, who had herself
borne 16 children, was deeply
touched when, after playing, the
little boy climbed into her lap
and impulsively threw his small
arms around her neck.
They stayed at the Court, and
once, while playing with the
Royal children, Wolfgang
slipped on the floor and one of
the little girls picked him up.
Gallantly he bowed acknowledg-
ment, and exclaimed: “When I
grow up I shall marry you!”
But Destiny held a different
future for Marie Antoinette.
The tour netted a heap of
baubles but little money. They
returned to their native town,
but a year later the whole
family embarked on a tour that
was to last three years and take
in Germany, France, Holland,
Switzerland and England.
In London the children
appeared many times' at the
Court of George 111 and Queen
Charlotte. Here Wolfgang made
friends with Johann Christian,
son of the great Sebastian, and
known as the “London” Bach
because he had taken up per-
manent residence there to
become the Queen’s Music-
master. There, too, he had
singing-lessons from Manzuoli,
the celebrated male-soprano
(castration to preserve a boy-
soprano’s voice was then widely
and allowably practised). It was
for this singer that, some 10
years later, Mozart composed
the great “Exsultate Jubilate,”
the Alleluia from which is still
a requisite in the repertoire of
world-ranking sopranos.
During that London season
of 1764 the eight-year-old boy
\Yrote his first symphony (Kl 6),
as well as innumerable smaller
pieces. He created a sensation
with his playing on both the
clavecin and harpsichord. With
the keyboard covered with a
cloth he would play from
memory dozens of pieces,
naming the notes as he struck
them. He would also instantly
and infallibly name the note
from a struck bell or a chiming-
clock. One notable concert,
given with full orchestra, was
devoted entirely to the boy’s
works.
On the way home they called
again at Paris, where he wrote
the Violin Concerto he dedicated
to the Princess Adelaide,
daughter of Louis XV. He was
barely 10, but the piece bears
the hallmark of the elegance
and refinement he was to make
peculiarly his own. It is still
often played by virtuosi.
At 12, back at Salzburg, he
wrote his first opera buffa, “La
Finta Semplice.” Despite
Leopold’s wire-pulling, it was
never produced, but it led
to another, “Bastien and
Bastienne,” commissioned by
Dr. Mesmer, whose name was
to be made into one of the first
“isms.”
Though immature theatrically,
the “Bastien” contains musicvof
gracefulness and beauty and is
still occasionally performed.
A few more years of relentless
study and work ; then Wolfgang
and his father set off on a tour
of Italy. In Rome he met
Padre Martini, one of the
greatest authorities on music
then living, who freely paid
homage to his gifts.
During Holy Week in Rome
they went to the Sistine Chapel
to hear the Papal Choir sing
Allegri’s “Miserere,” and ' here
the 14-year-old Mozart per-
formed his most famous feat of
memory.
It was forbidden any member
of the choir, under threat of ex-
communication, to take away or
copy any part of this long work.
Mozart heard it through, hurried
back to their lodgings and wrote
it down in its entirety. Among
its complexities are notes for a
double choir, an ancient church
style and a complete absence of
rhythm. Two days later he
returned for a second hearing
and was mortified to find he had
a couple of notes wrong! Word
got around of the feat (started
doubtless by the indefatigable
Leopold) and the Pope sent for
young Mozart. But instead of
excommunication he was pre-
sented with the Order of the
Golden Spur, an honor that was
shared by Gluck, Court-
composer to the Emperor
Joseph II of Austria.
With this amazing mnemonic
gift, it became common practice
for Mozart, when travelling
from city to city by coach, to
etch on his memory a whole
movement of a work, commit-
ting it to paper when he reached
his destination. Once, commis-
sioned to write a sonata for the
Mantuan violinist Madame
Strinasacchi, he had still failed
to write her part on the day
before the concert. In answer
to the frantic lady’s appeal, he
sat up all night writing her part
down, sending it to her next
morning. She would have been
even more frantic had she been
aware that during the perform-
ance, which turned out to be a
great success, the composer, who
played the piano part, had
propped before him on the
musib-rack a blank sheet of
ruled-paper.
The Emperor Joseph, from a
near-by box, noticed this when
he trained his glasses on the
piano.
“What!” exclaimed that
monarch later, when Mozart
went to pay his respects, “are
you up to that again?”
“Well, sire,” replied the com-
poser, smiling, “at least there
was not a note lost.”
At Milan on the way home
he wrote his third opera,
“Mitridate, Re di Ponto,” the
premiere of which he con-
ducted ; and at Bologna, while
Still a few weeks short of his
15th birthday, he was elected a
member of the exclusive
Accademia Filarmonica, after
completing in half-an-hour a
severe test in contrapuntal writ-
ing which usually took the most
learned musicians a full three
hours.
By the time he reached his
majority Mozart had behind
him an already vast output of
high-quality music in every
known form. Quartet-writing—
one of the most difficult of all
because of the need for purity
and clarity of theme-weaving—
he mastered with the same ease
that he did the song, the Mass,
the sonata and the concerto. As
well, he had become a virtuoso
on three instruments: the piano
(of which he was one of the
foremost exponents of his day),
the violin, and the organ, on
which he found no difficulty (as
Bach had found none) in
improvising on a given theme
for half-an-hour.
But he badly needed an
appointment to ensure economic
security, such as the more fortun-
ate Joseph Haydn had secured
as kappelmeister for the wealthy
Prince Esterhazy. Mozart then
was Court-organist for the new
Archbishop of Salzburg,
Heironymus von Colleredo.
As well as this post being
shockingly underpaid, that
morose prelate took an unholy
delight in humiliating his
organist - composer at every
point, and in trying to prevent
his composing in any form
except church-music.
When he was 25 Mozart
rebelled and tendered his
resignation, which three times
the churchman refused to
accept. Then, during a State
visit to Vienna, he sent for the
composer, called him “lousy
rascal” and “knave,” and got his
chamberlain to kick him bodily
out of his presence.
When the composer was 21
Leopold proposed taking him
on another visit to Paris.
Heironymus flatly refused the
father leave, but surprisingly
granted it to Wolfgang. So
Mozart went with his mother.
The venture was a failure
from every angle. Where the
small boy in his satins, his
powdered wig and his little
sword had amused and diverted
them years before, the haute
noblesse now saw only an un-
distinguished - looking young
man with slightly protruding
eyes who was just another
talented instrumentalist. Besides,
there was a classic row going on
between r Gluck and Piccinni,
and the musical world viewed
any diversion from this
spectacle with marked
impatience.
Fast on the heels of this blow
to his professional hopes came
the death of his mother —the
circumstances of her burial with
his small means a searing
experience.
He returned by way of
Munich, where on the trip
out he had met a prompter and
copyist named Fridolin Weber,
with the eldest of whose four
daughters, Aloysia, he had fallen
in love. She was a beauty with
a fine soprano voice.
Here his third disappointment
awaited him. Aloysia received
him coolly, and he quickly dis-
covered why—she had become
the mistress of Count Hadik, the
Minister for War, and with his
influence had become principal
soprano at the Opera House.
Mozart took misfortune well.
In this instance he readjusted his
relationship to one of friendship
and wrote for the soprano some
of his most charming songs.
Another aspect of his
character was that, for all his
child-prodigy fame, he remained
throughout his life completely
unspoiled. There was nothing
of the spoilt prig about Mozart.
He was a genuinely popular
figure, the “life of every party,”
a skilled billiards- and bowls-
player.
But he did what many another
man on the rebound has done —
married the younger sister of
the one who jilted him. Haydn,
whose friendship was one of the
ennobling things of his life, had
done exactly the same some
years before, but that most
amiable of men picked one of
the worst shrews in history.
Mozart’s Constanze, like all
her sisters, had a good voice,
and she was amiable; but as a
housewife she was hopeless, and,
with Mozart’s own improvident
ways, he was, for the nine years
left to him of life, fated to the
same sort of poverty that
Schubert suffered half-a-century
later.
To make Mozart’s position
clear —and that of any other
composer of his day—needs a
brief reference to the patronage
system then in vogue. The public
concert as we know it was
unknown. A composer depended
either on obtaining as patron
some wealthy noble who was a
music-lover, or landing a lucra-.
tive post at some Court. He
could give subscription-concerts
on his own behalf, but only
under the aegis of his patron.
The system of royalties had
not been devised, nor was there
any law of copyright. Anybody
at all could publish anyone else’s
work and reap the financial
benefit. In this, Mozart was one
of music’s worst sufferers. When
he sold an opera his financial
interest in it ceased y/ith the
first performance. For the first
of his masterpieces of the lyric-
stage, “The Marriage of Figaro,”
he received £4O. The opera-
houses of Europe made fortunes
out of it. And the same with
every opera he wrote.
Mozart’s first opera seria was
“Idomeneo,” a heavy Greek
tragedy, the libretto for which
had come from the pen of
Heironymus’s chaplain, the
Abbe Veresco, who knew noth-
ing of the theatre. Mozart
worked wonders with the
wretched material, and in accom-
modating his music to the exigen-
cies of a ridiculous cast, as com-
posers then were expected to do
(the castrato had never stepped
{Continued on page 34)


PaitJi in ihc
Future
Washington, D.C., is more than a great capital
of the United States. It is a rendezvous for the
nations of the world.
To fly into it—rich in its trees and parklands,
sectioned magnificently by avenues named for each
of the American States —is an aerial lesson in the
patterns that man can weave.
To look upon its cathedrals and churches, its
universities and institutions, is to realise that here
is the quintessence of a country’s culture.
But Washington’s chief interest to me is in its
embassies and chanceries, for they are counterpart
to something wider and deeper than the core of
one nation, vast and wealthy though it be.
Across in New York, a city with the throb of
life in every beat of its enormous traffic, I had seen
the headquarters of the United Nations at Man-
hattan; the forum of the world, the source of
agencies for human welfare for which there is no
precedent in history.
Splendid in its conception, grand in the nature
and performance of its work, U.N.O. has its own
lofty stature, and defies comparison with any other
instrument in social relations.
But here in the spacious setting of Washington
one senses the atmosphere in which the work of
concord and mutual assistance is carried on at
govemment-to-govemment level. \
It would be true of other major capitals such
as London. It is particularly true of Washington,
so close territorially to United Nations head-
quarters.
To Washington are accredited senior diplomats
from every country. Britain is strongly represented.
The Australian Embassy, led by the Ambassador
(Sir Percy Spender), is our own niche in these halls
of nationhood.
Wherever I have travelled in recent months
I have found Australia’s name respected and its
contribution to international thought listened to and
valued.
That, I believe, is due in large part to the type
of men who represent Australia abroad.
y
ARTHUR MAILEY'S Book of
CARTOONS & CRICKET STORIES
Price 2/- post free.
100 OBSERVER PRINTERY, CRONULLA.
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
“National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents-~
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold te Co. ftj. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Ptf. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . \ Vardon Price Ltd.
PERTH • Docket Book Co. (AusU
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The A.J.C.’s £2OOO Challenge
Stakes (six furlongs) and the
£2500 Anniversary Handicap (H
mile) are the chief events of the
coming weekend’s racing in Syd-
ney. Starters at Randwick last
Saturday included several candi-
dates for both races, but it is
likely that horses that didn’t
compete then may have most to
do with the finish in each event.
On Saturday Lindbergh fin-
ished a close second to Pompilia,
conceding her 331 b gallant
effort —and he could be a Chal-
lenge prospect. Also Plato came
from the rear of the field for
third-money. But Apple Bay and
Knave, absentees last weekend,
appear the real shows in the
Challenge, with Apple Bay first
choice, to win from Knave and
Lindbergh.
Moderate midsummer stayers
will compete in the Anniversary
Handicap, and on latest displays
Grand Stream might score from
Roman Holiday and Shaded.
Old Sailor gets his name from
his sire, Channel Swell (imp.),
but he’s a young galloper who
could have a bright future, judg-
ing by the excellence of his per-
formance in winning his first
race, the Randwick Three-year-
old Maiden. Raced by Mr. and
Mrs. T. C. Carter, of Nyngan
(N.S.W.), and trained by country
mentor W, Kelly, the colt is
related to Advocate. Old Sailor’s
dam, Midsuma, is a Midstream
(imp.) mare from Tsuma by
Spearhead (imp>). Family-lines
include other winners in French
Echo, Count Ito, Royal Charter
and Dashing Cavalier.
The form two-year-olds Merry
Emperor and French Fable had
easy wins at Randwick. French
Fable was the medium of a heavy
plunge which forced bookmakers
to reduce the odds from 10-to-9-
on to 9-to-4-on. As it turned
out, the race was simply an
exercise-gallop for this brilliant
filly, who has now started three
times for two easy wins. She
may go to Melbourne for the
early autumn events.
In the Henry Lawson Handi-
cap at Randwick, apprentice
J. Gallagher rode a capital race
to get Overwise up in the final
few strides and land a £757
cheque for Miss A. T. Terriss.
Overwise was at forlorn odds;
the favorite, Queensberry, ran
his worst race in weeks.
Forest Link, a failure in Mel-
bourne before coming to
Sydney some months ago, and
down the course in two Rosehill
outings before competing in the
Second Novice at Randwick, was
surprisingly well backed from
double-figures to second-favorit-
ism for that seven-furlongs
event. He won rather well, and
it may not be his last win, either.
As he comes from the family
which produced Skipton, Beau
Vite and Wotan, he could prove
a useful stayer. Filipino, a
winner in four States, is also a
close relative.
Pushover, winner at 12
furlongs at Morphettville (S.A.)
on Boxing Day, was then taken
to Melbourne, and at her first
start the five-year-old mare had
an easy win in Moonee Valley
Caldermeade Handicap (H
mile). Pushover smartly
named; she is by Avalanche
(imp.) from Gullible —has mixed
her distances. Her dam, success-
ful at Rosebery more than 20
years ago, was got by Spear-
head (imp.) from Dupe by
Grafton (imp.) and traces back
to stayer Trenton.
At Brisbane’s Albion Park,
Toshah was among the winners,
landing the main event, the First
Division Handicap, for owner-
trainer A. Strong. Native Beau,
a four-year-old by Beau Monde
from Miss Orange, was a warm
favorite and won the Second
Maiden for owner-trainer E.
Railton. Native Beau’s dam,
bred 16 years ago, was got by
Waikare from Miss Molong by
Wolowa from Llanishen (imp.)
by Llangibby. Waikare won the
A.J.C. Metropolitan in 1934.
Cardoness, by Foxbridge
(imp.) from My Own by Lord
Quex (imp.), has proved a
successful brood-mare, all four
of her progeny to race so far
having been winners, most not-
able of them The Wash (£15,150
in stakes, including the Q.T.C.
Derby and St. Leger and the
Brisbane Cup). Cardoness is
dam of the highest-priced year-
ling (3000gns.) sold at the latest
New Zealand sales. The pricy
buy is a colt by Balloch (imp.),
sire of Dalray, Vagabond,
Tauloch and many other
winners. Second-top price
(2700gn5.) was realised for the
Fair’s Fair (imp.)-Frustration
colt, the bid of Melbourne
trainer Theo Lewis. Fair’s Fair
is the sire of Somerset Fair and
King’s Fair, while Frustration
is by Baffles (imp.) from Royal
Secret by King Lu.
It is hoped by Australian
thoroughbred-breeders that the
slackening of interest shown at
the New Zealand yearling-sales
won’t be experienced here this
autumn, but the fact remains
that there has been a falling-off
in the number of horses in train-
ing on the various tracks, indi-
cating that owners and trainers
are finding costs difficult. There
were currency restrictions on
Australian purchases at the
nominion sales, but the quota
was not exhausted. One thing
that makes some shy away from
buying horses is the frequent
elimination of two-year-olds
from acceptance-lists. An owner
finds his trainer with his horse
ready for a win but balloted out
two days before the race.
* * *
Sydney’s trotting meeting set
down for last Friday night was
postponed by rain till Monday
night, but Melbourne’s post-
poned meeting from the previous
Friday was run successfully,
with Illawarra Wrack atoning
for his sixth in the Hunter Cup
by taking the January Free-for-
AU. He put Sparkling Max and
Port Logan into the minor plac-
ings and recorded a mile-gait of
2.11 1-5 for the 11 furlongs.
Before moving to Sydney for the
Inter-Dominion, Victorian top-
notchers and South Australians,
such as Illawarra Wrack, will go
for “expenses” in the Victoria
Cup. This event —heats, £425
each ; final, £2OO0 —is now to be
run on January 26 and 27, with
the final on February 3.
An interesting winner in Mel-
bourne was the square-gaiter
Teddy Bear. This former
Enzedder, one of the long
string of horses being raced here
by R. C. Mason, showed plenty
of ability in his Sydney win in
April, but after that he started
some pranks which didn’t make
him popular with stewards or
punters, one of them being his
swinging in the reverse direction
as the tapes flew. He’s a son of
Logan Derby, sire of the pacer
Port Logan (also from the
Mason stable), who’s had a good
run in Melbourne. Port Logan
is out of a mare also bred in the
purple—Abbess Maid ; she’s by
Grattan Abbey from Lena
Huon, by Huon (imp.).
+ +
Shirley Strickland won the
1955 Helms award for Aus-
tralasia for her world-record time
of 11.3 sec. for 100-metres at
Warsaw last year. The Helms
award is granted by the Helms
Athletics Foundation of U.S.
each year for a leading athlete
in each of five world-divisions.
Other winners from the Aus-
tralasian division recently include
Merv Wood (1948), rowing; Sid
Patterson (1949), cycling; John
Marshall (1950), swimming;
Frank Sedgman (1951), tennis;
Marjorie Jackson (1952) and
John Landy (1953), athletics;
and Jon Henricks (1954),
swimming.
* * *
Ron Faulds the other day won
Victoria’s springboard - diving
title. It was the eighth time he’s
won it, the last six of which have
been consecutive. Faulds has
also won the Australian title four
times.
* * *
Swimming - records toppled
last week. At Sydney’s Olympic
Pool a new world-record was set
by 17-year-old Murray Rose for
the 880yds. freestyle 9min.
34.35ec., 3.2 sec. off Australian
John Marshall’s previous record.
In a heat of the N.S.W.
1650yds. 17-year-old Murray
Garretty set new Australian
time (18min. 48.35ec., 10.6 sec.
better than the previous record),
and in the final took another
12sec. off (18min. 36.35ec.). At
Melbourne’s Olympic Pool 14-
year-old Victorian Faith Leech,
in a heat of the 110yds. Victorian
title, swam it in 65sec., a frac-
tion of a second better than
Lorraine Crapp’s record set last
month. (In Adelaide former
Sydney girl Dawn Fraser swam
110yds. in 65.65ec., slower than
the other two girls’ times, but
still o.2sec. better than the exist-
ing Olympic record.) Gary
Chapman, in only his second
competitive 110yds. swim, won
the N.S.W. title in 56.65ec., just
outside Jon Henricks’s Aus-
tralian record of 56.25ec.
though Henricks has swum
faster still, 55.85ec., in Honolulu
in August last year.
“K.R.”: Swimming is cer-
tainly a young man’s (and
woman’s) sport. The current
batch of record-breakers in Aus-
tralia are all about 15 to 17;
after that they’re “too old.”
Some do last a bit longer. A
couple of years ago Judy Joy
Davies, at 27, amazed by win-
ning the Australian 880yds. title;
and another “veteran,” John
Marshall, once holder of every
world-record from 2000-metres
to a mile, and now all of 25,
twice reduced the Victorian
record in winning last week the
22Q.yds. Victorian butterfly-title.
* * *
The Taylor-Mailey testimonial,
as a trial for England, couldn’t
have told the selectors everything
they needed to know. They must
be pretty sure by now of most of
the batsmen, with one or two,
like Burge, Carroll and Simpson,
still being weighed. Their bigger
headache is the choice of
bowlers: complicated by the risk
to Miller and Lindwall erf
breaking-down overseas, and the
need for adequate pace-support
for them. (Apart from a couple
of overs with the new ball by
Davidson, Lindwall was the most
impressive of the speed-men in
the testimonial.) And our spin-
bowlers have so far failed to sift
themselves out satisfactorily.


In January, 1941
BATTLE -BAPTISM
AT BARDIA
By RALPH HONNER
VICTORY in the three-day
battle for Bardia trans-
formed the trained but
untried troops of the
Sixth Division into veterans
with an already high morale im-
measurably strengthened. Some
performed prodigies of valor at
such cost that the recording of
their losses alone would have
drawn attention to their
gallantry. The exploits of
others, in some respects no less
remarkable, have escaped
general notice partly because the
fortunes of war gave them
maximum success with mini-
mum casualties.
Such was the battle-baptism
of C-company of the 2/11th
Battalion, 130 youngsters from
the shops and the stations, the
mines and the markets, the
farms and the forests of Western
Australia. They were destined
to lose 32 of their number
killed and 75 wounded in the
campaigns in Libya, Greece and
Crete before the end of May;
but they were to' achieve suc-
cesses out of all proportion to
their losses, inflicting on the
enemy well over 100 casualties,
in killed, wounded and prisoners,
for every one of their own. And
the last day at Bardia was to be
the first of their great days.
When the attack started on
January 3, 1941, we knew that
Bardia was to be taken by the
16th and 17th Brigades, while
our brigade, the 19th, was to be
kept fresh for the assault on
Tobruk. But on January 4,
when the 17th Brigade appeared
unlikely to complete the capture
of the southern sector that day,
we received a warning-order for
an attack on the sth.
During the night of the 4th
we moved into the area captured
by the 16th Brigade, only to be
told that, owing to a change in
the situation, our proposed
attack had been called off. We
were warned, however, that we
might be ordered to attack
somewhere the next morning,
and Lieut.-Colonel Louch had
already promised me that in
the battalion’s first action
C-company. would be in front.
It was obvious that an attack
should go in towards the south-
east to roll-up from their open
north-west flank the Italian
defences between the 17 th
Brigade and the sea. With my
young platoon - commanders,
Jack Bedells, Arthur Mcßobbie
and Ken Johnson, I pored over
the map by torchlight. Ido not
think there was one of us who
was not a little daunted by the
maze of fortified posts and
obstacles marked across the
miles of enemy-held territory.
Mcßobbie, than whom no better
soldier breathed, exploded,
“How the hell can we hope to
live through that?”
We made the most of the few
hours left for sleep, and at first
fight, about seven-o’clock, we
climbed into my truck to make
a quick reconnaissance from our
front-line of the ground over
which we might be ordered
to attack. The platoon-
commanders, still rubbing the
sleep from their eyes, rode,
hunched against the cold wind,
in the back. I sat in the front
with my driver, Doug Quinlan,
who, as always, had his rifle
beside him. My pistol was in
its holster at my feet. That was
all our armament.
Down the hill in the broaden-
ing light we lumbered, passing
our battalion-headquarters just
stirring to life. On we bumped
over the Capuzzo-Bardia road
to drop into the Wadi Scemas,
occupied by men of the 2/sth
Battalion preparing breakfast. I
asked the nearest corporal how
far we were holding out in front,
meaning the way his section was
facing and I was going—south-
east. He reckoned at least half-
a-mile —so we were, farther to
the south along the 17th Brigade
line of which this was the left
flank, but I couldn’t guess that
was what he meant. The
ground ahead was flat and
featureless, but there wasn’t time
to walk out half-a-mile and back
again. We rode.
As our truck climbed out of
the wadi we were blissfully
unaware that we were leaving
our front-line and driving across
no-man’s-land. Looking for
our forward troops I sighted a
line of telegraph-posts across
our track. This could be useful
as a start-line for an attack, and
as we approached it I jumped
from the moving truck, compass
in hand, to take, a bearing on
the telegraph-line so that I
could identify it on my map.
I hit the ground on the run
and had taken a couple of
strides, eyes glued on the line of
posts, before I realised it
bordered a wadi bustling with a
hundred men of an Italian
artillery battery, too busy break-
fasting to have noticed our
approach.
I don’t know who was most
surprised, but we acted first. As
I leaped back to the truck to
seize my pistol from the floor
and yelled at Quinlan, braking
to a stop, to keep the engine
running and turn the truck I
around, Johnson picked up the I
driver’s rifle, and under the
threat of our unloaded weapons
the nearest Italians put up their
hands.
I shouted “Avantif” and they
quickly stumbled up the few
yards of the sloping wadi-bank
for us to hustle them aboard the
turning truck and speed away
with their protection against
their comrades’ fire, almost
before the rest of them realised
what was happening.
On the way back we called
at battalion-headquarters and
handed-over our prisoners. The
platoon-commanders went back
to company-lines for breakfast,
but I stayed because the C.O.
had just received Orders for an
attack and was about to issue
his own orders. The attack was
to be made with C-company
followed by A-company on
the right, and B-company
followed by D-company on the
left. The last six infantry-tanks
of the 17th Royal Tanks still in
running-order were placed under
my command, but they had not
yet arrived.
I was so heartened x by our
early-morning foray into enemy
territory that I asked for the
regimental police to conduct my
expected bag of prisoners to the
rear. When my request was
refused I determined to. take
every available man in the
company, including my second-
in-command, Hector Binks, to
control the disposal of our
wounded and prisoners.
It was 8.30 by the time I had
received my orders and arranged
with the adjutant to send the
tanks to join me on the march
if they turned up. It took me
15-minutes to get back half-a-
mile to my company, give brief
orders, and get the company
moving. That left us half-an-
hour to reach the start-line about
three miles away by 9.15.
B-company, on our left, were
ready > before we were, but we
passed them before we cleared
our forward company-lines.
On the move I gave more
detailed orders for the attack to
the platoon-commanders, who
passed them on to their sections,
Then, when the tanks joined us
beyond battalion-headquarters,
we had another brief conference
with the tank-commander on
infantry-tank co-operation—still
on the move—before spreading
out and jogging steadily forward
to close up on our artillery
barrage before it lifted.
Bedells, on the right, passed
the Italians we had surprised on
our dawn-patrol. I had told
him to ignore them unless they
DECORATIONS
fired on us __ wb i cb they didn’t
We coldd not <j e i ay f or a mere
hundred non-belligerent gunners
wben we were about t 0 fi gbt our
way t h roU gh four miles of
enemy positions, strong in
art iu ery an d machine-guns, pro-
tectecj by concrete and wire, and
manne d by many thousands of
st in_d e fiant defenders.
When our barra § e ceased and
left us in full view of the enemy
P osts ahead, their artillery
with such accuracy
that we were sure they had pre-
viously registered on the line
we were crossing. The sheUs
dropped across the two leading
platoons and my small
command-party between them,
j was buffeted by the blast but
k feet>
1 could not see throU S h the
dus t to my left, but to the right,
where the three sections of 15-
platoon were moving in their
wide arrowhead formation, I
was horrified to. see first two
sections and then the third
blown over. As nothing moved
in the dust I thought, “This is
*=«» P'atooa g»e-h°w long
will the rest last? , But after a
moment the dazed secUons
c mbled to tbe j r f eet an d
scramoiea . •
h , urned forward to regain their
alignment with the left platoon,
We were soon advancing into
a hail of machine-gun fire
ripping up the ground about our
feet, buzzing past our ears, and
drumming on the tanks behind
us. Private C. T. McDonald
was knocked over by a wound
in the knee, but before the
stretcher-bearers could reach
him he was on his feet again, to
go on and finish the attack with
us —-to go on, too, to be
wounded again at Dema and at
Perivolia before dying of his
wounds in Crete.
For a little longer we pressed
on at a great pace and in perfect
formation, heedless of the
crescendo of small-arms fire, the
thunder of the bursting shells
and the swish and whirr of their
flying fragments.
Then a change came over the
scene as we closed on the
enemy positions and started to
fight our way through them.
For the next couple of hours our
movement and formation fluctu-
ated violently from minute to
minute, and even the component
parts of the far-flung company
seemed to be ever disintegrating
and reuniting as the flow and
ebb of the tide of battle surged
round one stronghold after
another. But it was an orderly
confusion, conforming to a pre-
arranged plan, and the attack
never lost its impetus.
When an enemy post firing on
us was located, a section-
commander detailed to destroy
it ran to the nearest tank —
normally right behind him —-
pointing his rifle, with his steel-
helmet on the bayonet, at the
enemy position, towards which
he then trotted, followed by the
tank, while his section dropped
j n behind it. As soon as the tank
identified the target it raced up
alongside the section-leader,
who then rejoined his section,
chasing hard behind the tank as
it charged forward blazing away
at the enemy.
tbey still showed fight the
tank kept their heads down
While the infantry cut the wire
mw,th.e bayooch
Usually a few snots from tne
tank were enough to bring up
the white-flag, and the section
then rounded-up the prisoners,
disarmed them and herded them
back to the company axis of
advance, to which the tank
would have already returned as
S °° n aS itS task WaS d ° ne ‘
When all three sections of a
leading platoon were engaged
on such missions the reserve-
platoon moved up into its place
in front to keep the advance
going, while the former leading
platoon took its turn in reserve
once it had shed its prisoners.
The prisoners were at first sent
o ff Wl th a couple of escorts to
each batch of about a thousand,
, , hf ,; na nf ecrorts
but later, being short of escorts,
we ly dlrected eacb newly-
captured group to follow the
long broken column winding
back like a great segmented
serpent over the skyline to the
rear.
We were short of tanks, too.
With six tanks, only six poSts
could be attacked with tank-
support at one time ; and when
all six tanks were thus engaged,
the remaining platoon had to
overcome resistance without the
tremendous moral as well as
material help of the tanks. But
they never faltered. Bedells was
at least twice caught like this
with all tanks away fighting on
the left.
Coming under fire from the
right he manoeuvred his platoon
in for the capture of one post
in a shallow wadi. As a section
under Corporal Angove rushed
one line of emplacements it was
fired on from another wing of
the post, and Angove went down
seriously wounded. The platoon
burst in fury over this fighting
wing, killing all its defenders,
and the rest of the post quickly
surrendered.
Again without benefit of
tanks, the same platoon closed
on a stronger enemy redoubt
bristling with a dozen machine-
guns in concrete-emplacements
and surrounded by a great
entanglement of wire. A blaze
of fire forced it to the ground.
Bedells, reckless of the odds
against him, seized the wire-
cutters from one of his section-
leaders and dashed into the
open to cut the wire. At that,
his whole platoon rose up to
follow him, and before anyone
was hit the enemy stopped firing
and raised the white-flag.
The other two platoons had
almost monopolised the tanks
because C-company, with its
early cross-country run, had so
far outstripped B-company that
it repeatedly came under fire
from unmolested posts on the
left. We were spreading out at
times over a front of 1000yds.
to capture these enfilading, left-
flank posts which were more
dangerous to us than those
directly ahead. Driving this
wider wedge through
the enemy’s defences
inevitably slowed us
down, but never halted
us for more than a tew
moments, when a par-
ticularly heavy con-
centration of fire pinned
down our leading
elements until we could
take action to overcome
the new threat.
There was always some
platoon or section coming back
to me to maintain the impetus
of the attack on its main axis,
and if the platoon-commander
was away fighting I sometimes
took his place. I remember
leading a section or two of 14-
platoon into one wadi and along
it to flush a covey of Mussolini’s
eagles out of their coverts,
Leading the way out of it was
harder. We had finished clear-
ing the wadi, and a section was
crouched under the far lip of
it as I moved past on to the
open ground. The fire from
the next post was no worse than
plenty we had been through, but
it might grow hotter, and the
ground looked discouragingly
bare of cover. My “Come on,
boys, what’s holding you?” had
the desired effect. I heard one
tough citizen say, “If he can go
we can.” And they did.
It was only in the centre of
the line that I was at times lead-
ing the attack surging on all
along the broad front/ This
was essentially a platoon-
commander’s battle, and none
could have acquitted themselves
better than Bedells, Mcßobbie
and Johnson. Forging ahead all
the time, with whatever sections
they retained under immediate
control, they kept the wide line
moving forward, calling on the
busy tanks only when they could
not quickly quell resistance
without them. Their dash took
them into some tight corners —
as when Mcßobbie jumped into
a wadi ahead of his platoon,
with posts either side blazing
away at him until his men
stalked them from on top and
wiped them out.
We all seemed to bear
{Continued on page 34)


%y Appointment
\to H. M, Kino
/mdarlk IX
By Appointment
to the tale
Kino George VI
'SS&fP'
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adott
By Appointmenß
to H- M. the
Oueen ol the
Netherlands
LUt&'t!
ifiu EiSum *c»»u>si£S
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Denmark's
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoyment
0«r
T .’mtiP
•ff ,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-—SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
mm-BRinsH
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
Prices from
25/- to 90/-
Gives Character
to you* Writing
tON WIT IT I 111 I I 11. ITB. 10 I
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TROUBLED FRANCE
'T'O friends of France the
1 French elections were disap-
pointing in that they produced
little hope of “more stability of
government than it [France] has
enjoyed in the decade since the
war’s end” (New York “Herald
Tribune”). As the same paper
adds, “no single party or group-
ing of parties, including the
Right-Centrists led by M. Faure
and the Left-Centrists led by
former Premier Mendes-France,
has emerged with a majority.”
As the following typical press
comment indicates, this lack of
any effective majority,, together
with the increased strength of
the Communists and the surpris-
ing emergence of the Poujadists,
is likely to leave France in a
possibly worse predicament than
it has faced over the last few
years:
“Yorkshire Post”: “Two
parties have done well at the
expense of the rest: the Com-
munists and the body led by M.
Poujade. The increase in the
number of Communist Deputies
returned is striking; but it does
not prove that Communism has
gathered fresh strength in the
course of the last four years.
At the last general elections an
arrangement was made permit-
ting a sort of coalition among
the electors with the intention
(known to everyone) of keeping
the Communists out. This device
had the desired effect. This time
fewer of these coalitions have
been formed. If this proves any-
thing it is that people are less
concerned about the Communists
than they were four years ago.”
The same: “In the long run the
unexpected access of strength of
the \Poujade movement may
prove more important than
that of the Communists. It
was originally recruited chiefly
from small shopkeepers and
other people who are dis-
satisfied with the heavy
and allegedly unfair burden of
taxation they had to carry.
Since then it has gained adherents
from other quarters. It is a
militant movement and not par-
ticular about the choice of its
allies: in this connection the
rumor that the Poujadists might
consider an alliance with the
Communists is significant.
“In the composition of its
membership, and in its readiness
to get allies where it can find
them, the movement bears a cer-
tain resemblance to the National-
Socialists in their early phases.
The similarity, such as it is,
must not be pressed too hard ;
in matters of doctrine the widest
possible difference exists between
the French movement and the
German one. Yet it is a fact
worth recording that a popular
movement, not of the Left, now
is represented in the Assembly—
a movement the avowed object
of which is to work towards
a change by the obstruction of
Parliamentary government.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph’’:
“That over two-million French
people in disgust at the Parlia-
mentary system voted in favor
of M. Poujade’s strong - arm
men, without even one single
positive policy in their pro-
gramme, is indeed a dishearten-
ing discovery. The practical
result of the Poujadist success,
combined with an electoral
system which this time has
favored the Communists, has
been to seat in the New National
Assembly some 200 Deputies
pledged in their different ways
to discredit and wreck all Parlia-
mentary government.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“Poujadism has implications
wider than its present base. It
is loudly but vaguely hostile to
the law, government, and Parlia-
ment as they are now consti-
tuted —all in the name of some
undefined decency. It is very
like the ‘Qualunquist’ move-
ment which had a great vogue
in Italy after the war. These
movements are not exactly
Fascist; but they spring from
situations and feelings similar
to those that brought 'forth
London “Daily Minor”
MAIDEN IN DISTRESS
Fascism. How they may deve-
lop is never clear.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail” : “Com-
munism is supposed to flourish
only in backward, poverty-
stricken lands. France is neither.
She is a booming country in the
forefront of 20th-century civili-
sation. Yet in rich, fat France
we have this massive support
for Communism. This and the
meteoric Poujadist success are
ominous signs of the trend to-
wards authoritarian government.
“In the middle are the hapless,
strife-ridden democratic parties,
shading off into meaningless
combinations of Near Radicals,
Orthodox Radicals, Dissident
Radicals, and the rest.”
* * #
Edinburgh “Scotsman ” :
“There are no great differ-
ences in policy among the non-
Communist parties. They
agree that reform and restora-
tion of order in Algeria,
social improvements at home
and an increase of France’s
authority in international
affairs are needed. But broad
unity of aims is nullified
in practice by personal rivalries
and differences over methods.
Pressure from the Right and
Left may compel the intervening
parties to draw together, but a
marriage of convenience will
leave plenty of scope for the
familiar process of bargain-
ing that preceded the formation
of Governments and the inability
to do anything owing to
internal disagreements once they
were formed.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“On the very day that the French
were voting the first German
soldiers of the post-war era
were putting on their uniforms.
Thousands of French votes
Were cast for Communist candi-
dates out of the hatred for a
German Army, and the fear
that a German Army brings war
nearer.”
* * *
London “Economist” :
“France’s allies in the Western
world, if, as is likely, they find
their patience tried by the poli-
tical spectacle which the new
National Assembly seems certain
to offer, will need to bear in
mind the basic facts of France’s
position in the world and her
relationship to themselves. There
is no alternative to France as a
member of the Western com-
munity of nations. France
cannot be ‘written off.’ She is
indispensable. Europe and the
West have a powerful interest in
the stability and continuity of
French government, but until
France finds stability along her
own path they have no choice
but to go with her as an ally as
she is. Fifty more Communists
in the Assembly are a blow to
the West; fifty Poujadists are a
nuisance; the ties between
France and her friends remain
as they were, vital.”
Singapore
In a thoughtful assessment of
the “Communist undertow in
Singapore,” a London “Econ-
omist” correspondent suggests
that the unrest in those parts
“arises mainly from the British
promise of self-government —to
the Chinese-speaking a sign of
weakness, to the English-speak-
ing a mere betrayal”:
“There is here [Singapore] a
marked contrast with Hong
Kong, where the absence of
unrest is due, at least in part,
to the British decision to main-
tain direct rule. As seen on the
map, Hong Kong appears more
perilously isolated than Singa-
pore. But the local Chinese are
less impressed by this than by
the spectacle of the British flag
apparently nailed to the mast.
While it is immovable at the
mast-head they can afford to be
loyal to it. Once it begins to
descend, if only by inches, they
must look elsewhere for protec-
tion.”
The writer goes on to note that
the same position logically
obtains in Singapore and Hong
Kong, the British flag having
been raised in both places before
the population arrived and the
people who subsequently came
there choosing to land on British
soil because it was British. They
were and are free to leave if they
wish, but “they are not free to
complain that the territory is
under British rule, for they or
their ancestors were perfectly
aware of that when they chose
to settle. This they would mostly
admit. That Britain could not
protect them against the Japanese
in 1941-42, they apparently
forgive. What they cannot do is
support a regime which is intent
on suicide.
“Communism in Singapore,
like patriotism in Hong Kong,
thus owes its strength to British
policy. It owes its recruitment to
the Chinese secondary schools
and especially to four of them.
Of the ill-paid and ill-qualified
Chinese teachers, a fair propor-
tion are Communist and a larger
proportion intimidated by their
Communist pupils. Of the pupils,
a proportion are of the pro-
fessional-student type, with ages
ranging up to 22 or more. Over
pupils of this kind, no head-
teacher has any authority. Nor
would he be supported against
them by the terrified tradesmen
of his School Board. Chinese
businessmen dare not openly
oppose the activities of those
who may be ruling Singapore
tomorrow.
“Communism is a religion, and
its religious opponents, Catholic
or Methodist, would ordinarily
rally to the British flag. These
are free at least fronvthe prevail-
ing desire to be on the winning
side. The non - Communist
electorate should also be
strengthened by the output from
the English schools, more espe-
cially from about 1960. But the
focus of loyalty—the Queen, the
flag, the national anthem, revered
as recently as 1950 —has been
virtually withdrawn. The
elements of opposition to Com-
munism exist but have lost their
centre of positive allegiance. Can
they find another? Is there time
to create a local patriotism to
replace the loyalty that is gone?
For any such rallying of local
sentiment, time is desperately
short.
“The likelihood is that no
reaction against Communism
will gather strength until more
of the disadvantages of Com-
munism have been experienced
or at least perceived. The final
objection to Singapore going
Communist is that it would then
cease to exist. Defence against
Communism may rest ultimately
not in the hearts and minds of
the people but in the nature of
the facts. '
“For Singapore, depending
as it does on trade with Britain
and the United States, can no
more afford to quarrel with these
Powers than it can afford to
quarrel openly with China. For
Singapore the motto should be
that the customer is always right.
This lesson may have to be learnt
from the sagging graphs and
empty bellies of a declining
trade. The mischief is, however,
that such a decline, effective as
it may be as a warning, is easier
to cause than to reverse. The
lesson, when learnt, may be
learnt too late.
“For there is, after all, no
particular reason why the dotted
lines on the map should converge
on Singapore. The oceanic ships
might call instead at Sandakan,
where the oil of Brunei is close at
hand. The international airlines
could shift their routes and find
a new centre at Labuan —they
might do so, in any case, for
reasons merely geographic. The
Malayan exports of tin and
rubber might reach the sea at
Port Swettenham. The Straits
Trading Company might decide
to do its smelting at, say, Klang.
Singapore might become so in-
significant that no one would
notice whether it was a Red
republic or not.
“It is to be hoped that its
citizens will see the danger in
time.”
Butter Surplus
The New Zealand protest
against subsidised sales of
Canadian butter to Czecho-
slovakia raised an interesting
point, in that Canada has
frequently criticised the U.S. for
similar kinds of trading.
As London “Economist” notes,
“if Canada intends to keep up
—as it is perfectly entitled to
do its demands that the
Americans should stop unre-
stricted disposals of subsidised
commodities on world-markets,
it will be wise to stick to the
rules of the game itself”:
“Canada has accumulated a
stock of about 12-million pounds
of butter, thanks to the price-
supports extended to the farmers.
The farming interests, which
naturally fear that the supports


Sifts"
m
m
Holden Utility tops Australian sales because
YOU GET IDEAL POWER, ECONOMY, DEPENDABILITY
AND LOAD SPACE FOR ONLY £B5O (plus tax)
Holden Utility tops Australian
sales because it is designed and
built specifically for Australian
conditions. Only Holden Utility
offers you a combination of 6-cylinder
21 h.p. performance, exceptional dura-
bility, generous 75J" long load space and
the 30 m.p.g. economy reported by so
many owners. Holden Utility, too, has
won a wide-spread reputation because of
its high resale value, because it is easy to
service, and because low-cost, factory-
guaranteed spare parts
are available through-
out Australia.
This extract from a
letter written by Mr.
T. Boulger, of Western
Taxi Trucks, Military
Road, Henley Beach,
S.A., tells of his satisfaction with Holden.
“Eighteen months have passed since -1
bought my last Holden Utility, during
which it has been subjected to 44,000 miles
of taxi truck operation . ..
The petrol mileage has been consistently
between 30-31 m.p.g. . . . Although the
Holden has been left out in all weathers,
it has never failed me, one press of the
starter is sufficient at all times . .
Let us prove that Holden Utility offers
you the best combination of power, de-
pendability, economy
and load space.
Also may we suggest
that, in view of the
continuing heavy
demand for Holden,
you place an early
order.
4.198
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Utility
•registered trade mark
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN PANEL VAN
LIST PRICE £865 PLUS TAX
Convenient hire purchase arrangements are available through GMAC.
“Air Chief” is the only car radio approved by GMH Engineers for Holden. 1
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
might be cut away from under
them, have been putting pressure
on the Government to get rid
of the surpluses abroad. Some
seven-million pounds were dis-
posed of earlier in the year [1955]
to East Germany through com-
mercial channels. The latest sale
of a million pounds to the Czechs
is at a price 19 cents below that
given to the farmers. The New
Zealanders complained that they
were being undercut* but they
have now accepted Canada’s
explanation and reassurances.”
The problem of food-surpluses,
particularly in the great larders
of the U.S., is an increasing one,
however, and, as the “Econo-
mist” adds, the Canadian inci-
dent is “a very clear illustration
of the difficulty of prescribing
rules for disposing of Govern-
ment-held surpluses on foreign
markets which will be regarded
by all parties as equitable.
“Even the apparently accept-
able formula that subsidised
sales are justifiable if they lead
to additional consumption, and
do not merely displace other
suppliers, is not foolproof.
Established suppliers are, natur-
ally, never reluctant to claim
long-standing connections with
markets threatened by subsidised
competition; and it is difficult
to distinguish the greater con-
sumption caused by the supply
of low-priced surplus com-
modities from the natural
increase in consumption which
might have taken place anyway.
' “If, then, it is impossible to
lay down a simple set of rules
governing the disposal of sur-
pluses, the only practical alterna-
tive is to have maximum con-
sultation between Governments.
Fortunately, the machinery for
this is available in Gatt and the
Food and Agriculture Organisa-
tion (F.A.0.); it is essential that
it should be fully used.”
A Year of History
London “Time and Tide’s”
summing-up of the international
scene for 1955: “The flame of
nationalism continued to blaze
merrily across Asia and Africa.
Twenty-nine nations, united
only in their anti-colonial zeal,
met together at Bandoeng. The
greatest success of the confer-
ence was scored by Mr. Chou
En-lai, and an attempt by Ceylon
to raise the question of Commu-
nist imperialism was quickly
shelved. From Malaya to
Morocco the revolt against
Europe continued, and it was a
welcome contrast to find Malta
seeking closer ties with the
United Kingdom.
“The Manila Treaty created
at least the nucleus of a South-
East Asian equivalent to Nato,
and the Baghdad Pact was a
belated attempt to regain the
initiative in the Middle East.
Mr. Nehru condemned both
these pacts as threats to peace.
“In spite of bitter Russian
opposition, the Paris Agreements
were signed at last and Western
Germany became a member of
Nato. The Communists re-
plied with a conference at War-
saw designed to incorporate
the countries of Eastern Europe
and the Soviet Union into a
single military and economic
structure. They began to woo
Western Germany, to strengthen
Eastern Germany and to
exploit the German desire for
reunification. They talked about
‘a curtain of neutral nations’ and
secured the neutrality of
Austria in return for then-
assent to the long-disputed
State Treaty.
“Broadly content to main-
tain the status quo in Europe,
the Communists turned their
attention to richer ground in
the East, where there was hope of
driving a further wedge between
British and American sympa-
thies. With gold and obsolete
arms, they bought their way
into the Middle East; with
hospitality and facile speeches,
they bought their way into
Asia. After the failure of the
Indian Communist party in the
Andhra State elections, local
Communists were ordered to
stop opposing and start work-
ing with the Government. The
terrorists of Malaya and the
rebels of Indo-China saw new
possibilities of exploiting the
law rather than attacking it.
“In the Soviet bloc itself,
Malenkov’s ‘new course’ came
to an abrupt end and the iron
regime clamped down again.
China announced her first
Communist purges and, by intro-
ducing conscription, made eight-
million new soldiers available to
the People’s Army.
“Like a tinsel thread across
Minneapolis ( U.S.A. ) “ Tribune”
GOING PLACES?
this dark pattern ran the Geneva
Spirit. The world buzzed with
talk about a meeting at the sum-
mit, coexistence, and the new
attitude of the Soviet leaders.
This optimism was shaken by
the platitudes and evasions which
the Heads of State actually pro-
duced at Geneva, and was finally
destroyed by the Foreign
Ministers’ inability even to agree
about ‘cultural exchanges.’ The
year ended with a meeting of
the Nato commanders to
integrate the air-defences of
Western Europe.
“The legacies of 1955 are not
cheerful ones. Abroad, in
many places—Cyprus, Jordan,
Afghanistan, Indo-China, For-
mosa—we seem faced by pro-
blems to which there can be no
happy solution. The Commun-
ists have gained ground and the
defences of the West, both
physical and spiritual, are still
pitifully weak,
“All this might add-up to a
black year, but its very black-
ness hides the seeds of hope.
The issues are plainer now than
they were a year ago, and we see
them with clearer eyes. Quite
recently any man was thought
bitterly pessimistic, if not posi-
tively malignant, who said that
it would not pay to appease the
Egyptians; that Nehru’s India
was not a reliable ally ; that a
meeting at the summit was no
panacea for the world’s ills;
that Communism did not change
and Communist leaders were
not desirable guests in London.
Now each of these propositions
is a commonplace of debate.
Problems cannot be solved until
they are realised, and clearer
vision is a sign of returning
health.”
Nehru and the Soviet
When Indian Prime Minister
Nehru visited Moscow last year,
and when Bulganin and Khrush-
chev visited India six months
later, the Russian leaders on
each occasion proclaimed and
signed with Nehru their adher-
ence to the five principles of
“Panch-Shila.”
The five items are: mutual
respect of the territorial integrity
and sovereignty of other nations,
non-aggression, non-interference
in internal affairs of other
nations, mutual respect and
equality, and peaceful co-
existence.
Commenting, Milwaukee
(U.S.A.) “Journal” notes that
“there is not room to detail
Russia’s past and present viola-
tions of these ideals. A
sampling will serve”:
“Did Russia respect the terri-
torial integrity and sovereignty
of the Baltic States, Finland and
Poland before World War II or
does it respect that of its satel-
lite States in Western Europe
today? Was it devotion to non-
aggression that caused it to back
North Korean invasion of South
Korea in 1950?
“Is it non-interference in
internal affairs of other nations
to build and finance spy-rings
and fifth-columns and stir
trouble in every non-Communist
country?
“Is it showing mutual respect
and equality, and seeking peace-
ful coexistence, to travel through
Asia as Bulganin and Khrush-
chev have, inciting hate, fanning
prejudice, exploiting differences
between peoples and nations and
spreading lies and slanders?
“It is sometimes charged that
Nehru is a naive man. But
surely no one would accuse him
of being so naive as sincerely to
believe that Soviet Russia
intends —now or in the future —
to observe the principles of
‘Panch-Shila.’
“Certainly Nehru and his
advisers remember the words of
Stalin, the mentor of Bulganin
and Khrushchev: ‘A diplomat’s
words must have no relation to
action —otherwise what kind of
diplomacy is it? Words are one
thing—actions another. Good
words are a mask for conceal-
ment of bad deeds. Sincere
diplomacy is no more possible
than dry water or iron wood.’ ”
Immigration
Canada’s “Toronto Globe and
Mail” on a problem also
familiar to Australia:
“Immigration into Canada is
slumping badly. Whereas the
1951 total of new arrivals was
close to 200,000, and those for
the succeeding three years were
more than 150,000, the figure
for 1955 will be 100,000 at best.
“In an effort to make a better
showing next year, the Domin-
ion Government has announced
that it will make two-year,
interest-free loans to all Euro-
pean immigrants (not just those
in particular categories) for the
purpose of bringing themselves
and their dependants to Canada.
It will also make such loans to
European immigrants who are
already here, so that their
families can join them more
quickly than would otherwise be
the case.
“We hope the scheme will
succeed: every indication for
1956 suggests that Canada will
need manpower as badly next
year as it has for the last 10
years. The question is whether
the scheme can succeed, whether
even this far-reaching measure
will halt the slump. The essen-
tial reason for that slump, as the
Immigration Department admits,
is that Western Europe is highly
prosperous.
“To the people of such
countries as Britain, Germany
and the Netherlands, the distant
fields of Canada do not look so
green as they did four and five
years ago—and not nearly so
green as they did in the years
immediately following the war.
“The plain fact is that Canada
threw away its big chance to get
immigrants. It was niggardly
when millions of Europeans
were anxious to come here; as
a result it must now be generous
in the hope of attracting a few
thousands. In the five years
after the war we could have got
any number of people from
Europe ; in fact, we got fewer
than half-a-million. Supposing
the new passage-loan policy had
been introduced during those
five years or during the subse-
quent five years, when we got
fewer than a million immi-
grants? The story would have
been very different.
“But no, we wait for 10 whole
years, during which Western
Europe makes a complete
economic recovery Then, and
only then, we start rolling out
the red carpet for immigrants.
The new policy, as we say, is
generous. But generosity is not
enough. The handsomest gift,
the most lavish assistance, can
still be too little if it comes too
late.”
Henry Cabot Lodge (chief
U.S. delegate to the United
Nations ); “The advantage of
President Eisenhower’s [“open-
sky”] plan is that it takes air-
power and uses it for peace—
just as his earlier plan took
atomic-power, with its dread
potential for death, and used it
for peace.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
A Headmaster’s Report
As headmaster of various schools for
many years, I have tried to foster worth-
while reading, with very little success. I
agree that schools and parents are both
partly to blame, and often wonder what
has happened to the schools in the last
30 years.
As a pupil, I was fortunate enough to
attend a State primary school staffed
with some literary enthusiasts. We were
introduced to the delights of literature
by the teachers’ reading and explanation ;
our reading-texts, mainly English in
origin, were full of extracts from sound
authors. “General knowledge” was a
highly-valued asset, listed on terminal
reports, and annual prizes were awarded
for general proficiency, literature, read-
ing and composition. One of the teachers
was Mrs. Alice Jackson, now a leading
Sydney journalist, and one of the pupils
a rather stout little fellow named Gavin
Casey. The University of Western Aus-
tralia had just opened in the tin-sheds of
Irwin-street, and very few teachers had
high academic training.
Compared with schools today, we had
two fortunate deficiencies —a scarcity of
university-minded teachers, and a total
absence of the psychologist. Between
them these two have developed a fear-
some mass of “testing-material” with
which our teachers assess reading-ages,
spelling-ages, i.q.s, word-frequency and
all sorts of statistical tomfoolery. Read-
ing for pleasure, the good old literature-
course, has been replaced by the tortu-
ous “comprehension-test,” a quiz full
of guile and verbal trickery. No pupil
looks for more of this. Oral reading, the
capacity to stand and read aloud in a
pleasant voice at a reasonable speed, is
now quite rare. The stop-watch tests the
silent-reading rate, and listening to oral
reading is strictly for infant-classes.
As a result, students in teachers’ col-
leges are instructed to practise oral read-
ing daily, because so many cannot per-
form adequately themselves before a
class. The study of poetry has been re-
placed by simultaneous rendering of
“speech-training” verses, selected solely
for their extraordinary content of one
plummy vowel or perhaps one fricative
consonant. Very few teachers spend much
time on the teaching of poetry as one of
the fine arts. Fewer still could name a
contemporary Australian poet of recog-
nised standing.
Where all teachers have a uniform train-
ing, usually based on a core of university-
subjects, the influence of university-
requirements upon teachers’ minds is
enormous, particularly when most school-
"Give him a good kick, love, and ask him for his fare.”
inspectors are graduates. But there is no
university course in children’s literature,
in Australian prose or poetry, or in the
contemporary novel and drama, so most
of our young teachers simply don’t know
that there are Australian authors and
poets, artists and cartoonists, and that
many of these have international recog-
nition. It is not surprising, because these
people have a heavy course of overseas
drama, poetry, prose, novels and literary
criticism to cover each year, and when
they finally graduate, most abandon seri-
ous reading with obvious relief. Very
little of this heavy course has any direct
bearing on the realities of Australian life
and letters.
Many school-pupils who might become
readers are handicapped by modern
educational psychology, which is so
obsessed with the backward - child that
it neglects the majority, who are normal,
and ignores the few who are really gifted.
Reading-books and spelling-courses are
now “scientifically compiled” with new
words restricted to narrow lists, so that
none shall be frustrated by failure. The
resulting scripts are shorn of all vitality,
are lacking in any literary challenge and
are so loaded with the irritating repetition
of subject-matter from other lessons
(called “correlation” by the pundits) that
reading becomes just a chore.
It is high time that we applied to
literature some of the techniques being
so successfully used in physical-training,
art and technical subjects; These sub-
jects have no direct university affiliation
and, therefore, are free to prepare pupils
specifically for their immediate post-
school life. In each there is an early
introduction of useful abilities, a con-
stant increase in difficulty ; a steady indi-
vidual progress towards the actual re-
quirements of the outside world, and,
most important of all, the inspiring chal-
lenge to do better every time. Finally,
in these fields there is recognition and
praise for the champion. Did you ever
hear of an Australian being named as
the ouistanding pupil in the subject of
Australian literature, or see his picture
in the Sunday papers? Such a policy
would require teachers who were experts
in their field, who should know some-
thing of the contemporary exponents of
their subject and should be genuine
readers themselves.
As a parent of adolescent chil-
dren I find some strange truths about
contemporary periodicals. In almost all
the weeklies and monthlies there is a
definite section for sex, sometimes thinly
veiled in quasi-medical' terms, or as
answers to correspondents with most
peculiar problems and no reticence what-
ever, and occasionally just a page or two
of what appears to be a policy of keep-
ing-up with the literary Joneses.
To put nothing but “safe” books in the
hands of adolescents is virtually impos-
sible, and, in my opinion, detective- and
“western”-fiction, which are usually free
from smut, have their uses. My own
experience suggests that a civic library is
•the best solution. After completing an
'Arts degree, with English literature as a
major course, my literary education was
Started by the librarian of the local
Mechanics’ Institute with a book called
A Curate in Bohemia. If children go to
the library with their parents, they at least
.Will become readers of books. — Eighty
Seven (W.A.).
The Australian “Boy” and Comics
I read with regret E. J. Trait’s report
of the end of the Australian “Boy” (B.
28/12/’55). True, it is following the
footsteps of the other boys’ papers he
mentioned, but it is equally true that no
boys’ paper published in Australia has
ever really been a success. Remember
“ 'Something with a little padding?’ This Way, sir.”
“Pals” of many years ago? The local
publication found it difficult to compete
with the “Magnet,” ‘‘Champion” and
other similar English papers. The
tragedy is that these papers, too, have
gone. There are still two papers for the
young on the bookstalls, but these, too,
are finding it hard going in face of the
present-day comic-mania.
I have always opposed comics on the
count that they discourage reading, yet
I can assure “E.J.T.” that the N.S.W.
Education Department takes a realistic
attitude towards reading in schools and
gives a considerable amount of time to it.
The “horse-to-water” saying has never
had a truer application than in this case.
In secondary schools, at least 40
minutes a week is given to a library-
period, this in addition to time spent on
set texts in the classroom. In library-
time the child is given a chance to read
a variety of books, mostly of his own
choosing, and is introduced to authors
and books considered suitable for his own
age-group. In most schools the aim in
the library is to get away from the class-
room atmosphere. Yet many school
librarians tell me that it is just as difficult
to keep pupils reading as it is to keep
them interested in the more formal
lessons.
The “look-at,” instead of “read,”
habit is too firmly fixed. Travel-maga-
zines, with their many pictures, are the
most popular, and few of the lookers give
any evidence of having read the letter-
press accompanying the picture.
In the classroom the move has been
away from the old classics (Dickens,
Scott, etc.), which tended to kill interest
in reading. Instead, pupils are given the
choice of books by Buchan, Jack Lon-
don, Johns (“Biggies”) and even the
“William” books. Even these do not
attract. Today more than ever before
the emphasis in schools is on encourag-
ing reading, but it is being beaten by the
comic.
“E.J.T.” blames parents for not encour-
aging reading in the home. True again,
but so many adults are suffering from the
same fault as the children, the closing of
worth-while publications such as the
“John o’ London’s” being at least one
indication— Wackford (N.S.W.).
As a boy of 15 and a former reader
of the Australian “Boy,” here are my
views on why the magazine failed to
gain support.
I bought it regularly, starting from the
first issue, for over a year. The earlier
issues I found very good, but the original
high standard, in my opinion, was not
maintained.
I have kept most of the copies I bought
and, looking through them, I note that
the serials in the later issues are less
interesting than those published at the
start. And far too much space is given
in these issues to articles on stamp-col-
lecting, model-aeroplanes, photography
and other hobbies, and too little to stories.
Few boys are keenly interested in more
than one hobby, so these features would
have little general appeal. A friend of
mine whose hobby is stamps bought
“Boy” for some months, but found it
more helpful to buy magazines entirely
devoted to stamps.
In my opinion, the short-stories and
serials were certainly not up to the
standard of the “8.Q.P.” and “Chums,”
which Mr. Trait says his magazine strove
to emulate. That is why the average boy
soon got tired of them, as I did,
although I am keen on reading and have
no time for comics.
It is a pity that “Boy” did not receive
better support, but perhaps the real
reason was that it did not contain enough
really good stories to make it worth nine-
pence a copy. That, at any rate, was
my reason for giving it up.— Peter (Vic.).
Water-rates
Explaining Sydney Water Board’s
method of rate-assessment to critics who
contend that payment for water should
be based on the amount used instead of
on the rental-value of a property, a
spokesman for the board declared:
The method is based on the social idea
that every person, whatever his financial
standing, should be able to obtain his
essential needs at the price he can afford
to pay .
Generally speaking, the ability to pay is
reflected in the value of the house in which
the ratepayer lives, the person in the most
valuable property being able to pay more
for the service than one in a house with a
low assessed annual value.
If the consumer knew that he had to pay
only for the water actually used he would
be encouraged to keep his usage below the
proper maximum for proper standards of
hygiene, cleanliness and sanitation, and thus
imperil not only his own health, but his
neighbors’.
It is not a satisfactory explanation.
Adequate water is only one essential
to healthy living. Food and heating are
others and their prices are not based on
the principle enunciated by the Water
Board.
The president o.f the N.S.W. Real
Estate Institute has pointed out that,
because of inconsistencies in the N.S.W.
Landlord and Tenant Act, a home-owner
has to pay an unfair proportion of water-
rates. Two cottages of the same unim-
proved capital-value, one owner-occupied
and the other tenanted, will have different
assessed values. That is because the
Valuer-General sets the assessed annual
value of a cottage let at a pegged rental
at a much lower figure than that fixed
for a similar owner-occupied cottage.
Tenants meet their water-charges in the
rents as a result of the fair-rents mach-
inery, but the overall result is that owner-
occupiers are being levied at a higher
rate than tenants.
Shops are rhted on the same basis as
houses with an equivalent rental-value.
Yet the amount of water likely to be used
in many classes of lock-up shops is cer-
tainly far less than in one with living-
accommodation, or in a house assessed
at the same rental-value. — Cunedda
(N.S.W.).


Queensland’s Licensed Clubs
Replying to my comments on Queens-
land’s licensed-clubs legislation, “Silicus
(B. 4/1/’56) makes much of the demo-
cratic aspect.
One of the liberties for which freedom-
loving people have battled for centuries
is the liberty to choose their own friends
and congenial leisure-time associates.
The new Queensland legislation denies
members of licensed clubs that right.
The written rules of any club cannot pos-
sibly cover all the reasonable and neces-
sary qualifications for club-membership,
or grounds for rejection. In the past,
candidates for membership have been
rejected because they have been known
to be unmitigated garrulous bores, per-
sistent axe-grinders, continuous obstruc-
tionists and trouble-makers, wet-blanket
wowsers, ranting rationalists, I.R.A.
propagandists, Commo fellow-travellers,
backbiting scandalmongers, gross and ill-
mannered feeders, intemperate and trucu-
lent drinkers —to sum them all up in
one word, uncongenial.
To hold such opinions about any per-
son and to act on them in selecting one s
associates is perfectly legitimate, but to
be compelled to state them publicly
before a licensing commissioner and the
aggrieved person or his representative
seems to be a gross interference with in-
dividual liberty.
Some of the statements made by
“Silicus” are inaccurate. No Queensland
club has a ban against Jews or Lebanese.
One of the two chibs that have been most
under fire has several Jewish members,
and the well-known, generally popular
and highly respected Lebanese gentleman
who was black-balled is put in the posi-
tion of the lone swallow from which Mr.
Gair induces a sizzling summer. The
Queensland judge who was black-balled
more than 25 years ago was not a judge
at that time, and many of the present
members of the club had not heard of
the incident till it was recently raked-up
for propaganda.
In one of these clubs the decision is
left to a committee elected by the mem-
bers for that purpose, but in the other
club the committee makes a recommen-
dation to a general meeting of members.
In one instance a candidate was recom-
mended by the committee, but was re-
jected by a considerable number of rank-
and-file members, in spite of the com-
mittee’s favorable report.
The club, as a corporate body, ex-
presses no opinion for or against. In its
election of new members it is not a two-
party house with majority rule, but a
homogeneous association of congenial
companions who quite rightly would
resent having thrust upon them the en-
forced companionship of any person
whom a number of their members con-
sider uncongenial.— Double X (Q.).
Police Duties
The N. S. Wales Police Commissioner
is considering on-the-spot traffic-tickets
and -fines in order to release more police
for road-patrol duty.
A better idea would be to relieve the
police of many of the duties that could
be performed just as efficiently by clerks,
women included. It does not need a
trained policeman to deal with dog-
licences, to distribute lists of stolen goods
to secondhand dealers, or to perform
many other such duties.
Not so long ago police used to do the
work now done quite efficiently by park-
ing-police who are incapacitated men.
There are other present police-duties which
could be done by men unable to pass the
police medical and physical examination,
and many more duties could be per-
formed by women police. — Eureka
(N.S.W.).
Bisham Abbey
In B. 26/10/’55 Lady Hoby’s monument
in Bisham church is described as a
“black-alabaster figure.” There is, of
course, “no sich a substance.” Pure ala-
baster is white, though there is often a
good deal of discoloration because of the
presence of impurities, notably iron-
oxide.
Alabaster was much used in England
for the making of funeral monuments
during the 14th, 15th, 16th and 17th cen-
turies. The main deposits were in the
upper Trent and Dove valleys, in Derby-
shire and Staffordshire, and long before
its beer could aspire to more than a very
local fame the town of Burton-on-Trent
was the centre of a thriving monumental-
industry, turning-out carved and engraved
alabaster tombs which were sent far and
wide throughout the kingdom.
There were some other places of manu-
facture, particularly Nottingham, but
Burton was far and away the most im-
portant from about 1460 to early in the
17th century, when the London tomb-
makers, with their more progressive ideas
and better workmanship, succeeded in
capturing its market, and Burton was left
to make a second and even greater repu-
tation as the Metropolis of Beer.
The carved alabaster effigies which
appear on Elizabethan and Jacobean
tombs were generally painted, much of
the alabaster used by that time being so
marred by red discoloration as to render
some such treatment almost a necessity.
Black was one of the principal colors
used on the dresses. I have not yet seen
Lady Hoby’s tomb, but from my exami-
i ition of dozens of similar ones of the
same period I have little doubt that the
black color on her figure is nothing more
than paint.—F. A. G. (England).
Music
A correspondent in a Sydney daily
voices her dissatisfaction with conditions
under which concertos for the N.S.W.
State Conservatorium’s diplomas are
played. She points out that the examina-
tion is the pinnacle of the student’s
career, and that the orchestra which pro-
vides the instrumental background is not
of a sufficiently high standard for the
job.
In the Conservatorium’s early days,
when the performer’s-diploma was
claimed to be the highest of its kind in
the world, the concertos were presented
at big orchestral-concerts in the Town
Hall or at the Con., Verbrugghen him-
self acting as conductor. The usual
charges for admission were made, the
concerts were crowded and considered
highlights of the musical-year. Some of
us recall the excitement when Dorothy
Gibbes (for title last three decades a
professor at the same Con.) played the
Cesar Franck and Low Ada Brook lifted
us from our seats in the Grieg,
if memory can be trusted, the show-
ings of these young artists and the sup-
port given them by the orchestra com-
pared favorably with the standards of
Queen’s Hall and other famous con-
cert-places. Every Sydney critic of note
attended and wrote-up the performances
at length; these days so little publicity
is given to them that most of us are
unaware when the diploma-concerts are
on. As a result, the interest taken in
them by the public is negligible,
I hear glowing reports of the progress
of Sydney’s music, but sometimes I
wonder. Thirty years ago Sydney pos-
sessed at least 16 concert-halls, large and
small; and they were usually crowded
and going their hardest most nights of
the week. Today there are few halls and
by young artists are very poorly
attended.
Though now there are more scholar-
ships and large money-prizes at eistedd-
fods, I believe the budding musician of
yesterday received greater encourage-
ment both from the public and the press.
Almost every student-concert was re-
ported in daily, weekly and monthly
journals, which helped to give the per-
former a kick-off and apprised those
interested of new talent. Music-firms
had their concert-managers who, for a
guinea or two, would undertake the
organising of recitals. Radio was in its
infancy and, if people wanted to hear
music, they had to go out after it.
Possibly I’m an old fogy, but I’m con-
vinced that the former state of music in
Sydney—if only because a larger per-
centage of the public assisted in the mak-
ing of it or paid to listen —was healthier
than it is today.— Maitri (N.S.W.).
Road-safety
“Burr Imul” (B. 2/1 1f55), “Peter
Simple” (B. 21/12/’55) and many others
all seem to know the causes of road-
accidents. So do I.
Too many people, in taking the wheel
of a motor-vehicle, accept a responsi-
bility far beyond
what they are accus-
tomed to in their nor-
mal everyday lives.
Too many responsible
business - people and
excellent family-men
show, when they get a
steering-wheel in their
hands, that they lack
judgment for that task,
or they change into
near-maniacs. There
is also a lag in traffic-
ru 1 e understanding
and motor-administra-
tion. By and large,
we Australians are an
impatient mob belting
tomorrow’s vehicles
along yesterday’s
roads and under Raf-
ferty’s rules.
A member of the
Queensland Road
Safety Council since
its inauguration, I
have sat-in for
Queensland and the
Australian Automo-
bile Association at
road - safety confer-
ences in the U.K.
and the U.S.A. I
came away from the
annual convention of
the U.S. Safety Coun-
cil in the Hotel
Stephen, Chicago, be-
lieving that it would
have given its right
arm and left eye for
one solitary worth-
while clue as to how
safety on the roads
might be achieved.
There are some
hopeful signs: Scien-
tific research into the
problem by the Road
Bureau at Langley,
U.K., the E.N.O.
-Foundation, Connecti-
cut, and the Highway
Research Board,
Washington, U.S.A.
Roads that will accommodate the
traffic of today and tomorrow are
being built in Germany, Italy, Belgium,
Canada and the U.S.A. Children are
being educated in safety-practice in the
U.K., on the Continent and in Canada
and ffie U.S.A. There is practical driver-
training, with the active backing of the
motor-trade, in the secondary schools
and universities of the U.S.A. And,
finally, certain kinds of engineers, along
with architects and surveyors, are being
returned to jobs for which they are
qualified, and safety and related matters
are being allocated to engineers skilled
in traffic-problems.
To load Australia’s safety councils —
one Federal and six State—with respon-
sibility for minimising the toll of the
road on £150,000 a year is ridiculous,
The estimated annual economic loss to
Australia in road-accidents, injuries and
deaths is £25 million, and of traffic hold-
ups and delays, £175 million. Imagine
any private enterprise trying to arrest a
yearly deficit of £2OO million with an
annual outlay of £150,000.
We need a special session each of the
Federal and State Parliaments on this
far-reaching matter and several special
Premiers’ Conferences as well. We
should divert to the problem all our
scientific-research councils, Common-
wealth and State. They should sort and
classify the cranky notions, wishful-
thinking, palliatives and cures in ah effort
to prevent road-accidents happening, in-
stead of jailing half the populace after
they have happened.
In the meantime, we should step-up the
petrol-tax allocation from £150,000 to
£1,500,000; we should accelerate the
training of children in road-safety and
give practical driving-instruction in all
secondary schools and universities. We
need another 1000 motor-cycle police on
the roads, and we need modern highways
and traffic-engineers of world-repute and
stature.
The brightest ray of hope so far has
stemmed from the motorists, who,
through their State clubs and Federal
A.A.A., have provided the wherewithal
to teach the newer science of traffic-
engineering to young Australian civil-
engineers at the N.S.W. University of
Technology.— Chas. E. Rattles (Q.).
«
Darwin
Darwin’s backwardness can be traced
to the smug attitude of people like
“8.M.” (B. 28/12/’55) and “Darwinite”
(8.4/l/’56). ' ‘
I have lived for some years in Darwin
and, unfortunately, must continue to live
here. That half-hourly bus-service
exists only in imagination and not in the
printed schedule. There are no public
tennis-courts ; and the dances are mainly
beer-jug parties, where little attempt is
made to dance.
Darwin has an old-fashioned prejudice
against air-conditioning, swimming-pools
and practically any activity not associated
with beer-drinking.
At the hospitals, surgeons work in an
operating-theatre without air-conditioning
and in a temperature of more than 90
degrees.
The library, like the Supreme Court,
is in a tin Sidney Williams hut. Plans
for a library were taken off the estimates,
and plans for a new court-house have
flopped. """
Darwin has no primary or secondary
industries, and, in fact, produces nothing.
If the garrison and the civil servants
departed, the remaining population, in-
cluding pensioners, would have to depart
with them. The airline companies accom-
modate their transit passengers at Berrima,
some distance down the track —Alice
Springs has a considerable tourist-trade,
but Darwin has none.
Authority could learn a lot from the
new town in Okinawa, and less from
“old-timers.” — Murran-ji (N.T.).
Car-thefts
The widest publicity was given to the
Victorian Government’s amendments to
the Crimes Act, which tightened-up the
law concerning the illegal use of motor-
cars and prescribed salutary penalties for
offenders. Car-thefts had reached record
proportions in Victoria, partly because
of the relatively light punishments pre-
scribed for such offences, and of the
leniency of magistrates in general
towards “first offenders.”
Under the amended Act, “first
offenders” are liable to a fine of not more
than £lOO, imprisonment for not more
than 12 months, or both, for the illegal
use of a car. The new law came inter
operation at midnight on December 12,
1955; two hours later a car was taken
from North Melbourne and subsequently
abandoned at Ballarat after the boot had
been forced and the tools removed.
A 20-year-old youth, whom police
alleged admitted that he and another
man took the car, pleaded guilty to the
charge of illegal use and was sentenced
to one month’s imprisonment. But for
the special circumstances of the case —
the youth was an invalid pensioner—a
much heavier penalty would have been
imposed by the magistrate.
Writing 200 years ago, in his intro-
duction to A Voyage to Lisbon, Henry
Fielding said:
“Example alone is the end of all public
punishments and rewards ‘lt is very
hard, my lord,’ said a convicted felon at
the bar to the late excellent Judge Burnet,
‘to hang a poor man for stealing a horse.’
‘You are not to be hanged, sir,’ answered
my ever-honored and beloved friend, ‘for
stealing a horse, but you are to be hanged
that horses may not be stolen.’ ”
Fielding’s comment, and the judge’s
observation, might well be passed on to
those whose duty it is to deal with the
modern equivalent of the horse-thief.
Leniency in applying the law will only
encourage its contempt; the enforcement
of severe penalties, by making an example
of offenders, could stamp-out “illegal
use” of cars within 12 months. — Doynest
(Vic.).


The marking of
wether lambs by Elas-
trator Rubber Rihgs
not only protects them
against fly-strike and
set-back but also con-
ditions them for
better crutching and
shearing. With the
absence of the purse
shearers are able to
do a more satisfactory
job.
A M O D ERN
SANITARY
SYSTEM
For ail unsewered areas
m
m
m
&
m
mm
WZM
m
Even if you live in an unsevvered area where there is no water supply*
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system.that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install —write now for free illu*"
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIO.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
SINGAPOIiE:
N.Z.:
N. Guinea :
DISTRIBUTORS 11 "
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.). 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania.
C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DAPTO SHOW
DAPTO (N.S.W.) Show is
getting better every year.
An exhibition of Guernseys,
sponsored by the South Coast
and Tablelands sub-branch of
the Guernsey Society, was the
outstanding feature of this year’s
show.
Champion Guernsey cow was
R. R. Griffin’s Murray Brook
True Blue, which also won the
Guernsey Classic, a special prize
for the best-type cow with a
production-certificate. This last
prize was presented by J. A.
Murray, who should have been
pleased with the outcome, as he
bred the winner and sold her to
Griffin. Reserve champion
“Y’ look crook (day, Wally. You've got bags
under the eyes."
female was Carmel Peeress, bred
by K. Armstrong, of Lismore
(N.S.W.), and also owned by Mr.
Griffin.
While great credit must go to
Mr. Griffin for winning these
main prizes, they naturally lose
some of their value because he
did not breed the winning cows ;
he has sho,wn good judgment in
buying, and from such dams he
may well get good stock. The
proof of his ability as a studman
will be when he wins champion-
ships with stock of his own
breeding.
Another special prize was that
given by the Guernsey Society
for a pen of three cows, the
progeny of the one sire, with an
additional prize if they all had a
production-certificate. This was
won by E. H. Hayes, who did
very well at Albion Park
(N.S.W.) the previous week;
C. R. Emery second, D.
McKenzie third. As the win-
ning team were unable to pro-
vide the necessary production-
certificate, the additional prize
went to C. R. Emery’s team.
This raises a very interesting
point—was the judge correct in
making this decision? Surely
the prime importance of a dairy-
cow is to produce milk? Since
we must presume that the judge
was correct, it seems that the
wording of the conditions was
not quite strong enough to
ensure that the best team won.
In any case, the prize itself is
a good sign: very nearly the
perfect way to judge a bull. At
present a bull is judged purely
on type. If judged with his
progeny, for production and
type, then you would have a
better idea of an animal’s true
value. It does not necessarily
follow that a bull which has won
a championship will have high-
yielding daughters.
But a champion bull shown
with three of his daughters
would be an entirely different
proposition; also buyers would
know what they were getting.
The only disadvantage would be
that a young bull could not win
a championship; but the
champion would be a proven
animal.
The champion Guernsey bull
was Dalewood Trump, owned
by E. H. Hayes ; reserve ribbon
went to J. A. Murray’s Murray
Brook Charles. Judge was
C. C. Drury, of Una walla, Taree
(N.S.W.).
Another N.S.W. North Coast
man, H. J. Mcßarron, of River-
view, Raleigh, judged the A.I.S.
breed. Although the Dudgeon
Bros, were not showing, there
was strong competition for the
Richardson Bros, from, among
others, C. R. , Chittick and L.
Downes. The Richardsons’
Roseview Flora 7th added the
champion-cow ribbon to her
best - uddered - cow prize at
Albion Park, and L. Downes’s
Athelglow Empress, which was
sired by a Tabbagong bull, took
the reserve-championship.
The bull-section was a victory
for the Chitticks, who bred both
the winner, Alne Bank Perfec-
tion, owned by C. R. Chittick,
and the reserve-champion, Alne
Bank Ron, owned by C. R.
Smith.
In the Friesian section, V. J.
Lamond, although winning
again, met with some strong
opposition from both S. G.
Nelson and S. A. Hayes. The
champion cow was Brundee
Lady Like 2nd, owned by V. J.
Lamond, who also owned the
top bull, Torarpar Gallant
Dandy (imp., N.Z.), which won
for the second successive week.
The two reserve prizes went to
S G. Nelson, of Kangaroo
Valley (N.S.W.), for his cow
Daisy Bank Patricia and his bull
Brundee Lord Echo. The judge
of this section was the Hunter
Valley breeder A. Ward, of
Indiana stud, Oakhampton
(N.S.W.).
The Jerseys were not very
strong in numbers, but had a
few good entries in some of the
classes. They were judged by
K. Armstrong, of Retford Park,
Bowral (N.S.W.), where he
manages a very fine Jersey herd
for Sam Hordern. The main
prizes in this breed were divided
between the Chegwidden Estate,
G. Thomas and S. L. Lumsden.
Chegwidden Estate’s Austral
Park lolanthe took the cow
championship, and the estate’s
Austral Park Easter Blue was
reserve-champion bull. S. L.
Lumsden gained the reserve
prize with his cow Culwarra
Melody, and the champion bull
was G. Thomas’s Gailee Sultan
Master.
The Ayrshires again provided
no problem for the judge, J. R.
Nobbs, of Croxton, Badgery’s
Creek (N.S.W.); as at Albion
Park, Stephens Bros, were the
only exhibitors.
There were two special pro-
duction-prizes. One was donated
by the South Coast Produce Co.
Pty., Ltd., and was in two
sections. The first was for the
cow of any age producing the
most butter in 24-hours.
Richardson Bros, took this prize
with their cow Tabbagong Ruth
74th, which gave 3.881 b. butter ;
second and third places were
also filled by Tabbagong cows.
The second section of this
prize was for. the most milk pro-
duced in 24-hours: first and
second places went to the
Richardsons again, third place
to the Friesian breeder S. A.
Hayes. The winning cow was
again Tabbagong Ruth 74th,
with 841 b. of milk ; the next two
cows also gave over 801 b.
The other special prize was
donated by Bill Farr for the
Friesian cow under four years
old producing the most milk in a
273-day lactation ; this was won
by S. A. Hayes with Wandalga
Calamity, giving over 13,0001 b.
of milk.
These prizes encourage
farmers to breed cattle that are
capable of high milk-yields; it
is very pleasing to see them
being won by cattle from lead-
ing studs.
The last cattle-section to be
dealt with was the junior A.I.S.
—another good entry judged
by R. Alexander, of Kiama
(N.S.W.). Main prizes went to
the same cattle as at Albion
Park. G. Craig’s cow was
champion female, F. R. Hatch
had the champion bull: J.
O’Gorman and C. R. Swan also
did well in this section.
The main feature of this show
was the great improvement in
the cattle; with, as mentioned
earlier, particular reference to
the special exhibition put on by
the Guernsey Society. This
breed is losing popularity in the
milk-zone to the larger breeds,
but it has a very definite place
in the dairying world. It is only
by showing large groups, as at
Dapto this year and at Wol-
longong last year, that the breed
will hold its own.
JOHN BRIDGES.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too —-7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
"The Australian
Merino"
The Australian Merino is
probably the first work of its
kind. It is certainly the first
written this century. The
only comparable publication,
although the theme is different,
was Austin’s Merino Past,
Present and Probable. Beyond
that, and the Macarthur papers
which appeared in The Bulletin
last year, little or nothing has
been done to correlate under one
cover the progress of the Merino
in this country.
It is therefore pleasing to
have the silence broken by the
appearance of The Australian
Merino, produced by Oswald
Ziegler for the New South Wales
Sheepbreeders’ Association in
co-operation with sister-bodies
in other States.
Well-produced and profusely
illustrated, the book is valuable,
if for nothing else, in that it
gives a pictorial review of the
change in the Australian Merino
year by year from 1895 to the
present day; a change that has
been wrought by the whims and
demands of the times and the
skill and patience of our stud-
masters.
Illustrations show clearly that
not only have the famous “con-
certina” wrinkles from nose to
tail been sent into limbo but that
the horns, head, shape and size
have all been altered to suit
modern requirements.
If asked to pick the year
which showed a decided change
in type —or rather the embodi-
ment of many changes over the
years—l would pick the Haddon
Rig champion ram at Sydney in
1922 as the forerunner of
today’s Merino. In outline and
outlook he is the modern
Merino.
Despite the fact that the work
took four years to compile, and
involved a great deal of
research, the large type and the
relative shortness of the chapters
make easy reading.
Furthermore —and maybe it’s
a pity—only half the book is
devoted to the origin, dispersal,
progress and future of the breed,
while the second half of the 167
pages deals with the histories of
40 of Australia’s leading studs.
There is sly propaganda
throughout the pages for the
lifting of the embargo ; inten-
tionally or otherwise, the point
is made —rightly I believe —that
there is less profit in such a
monopoly than many people
seem to think.
In the foreword, well-known
Egel a b r a stud - master Sir
Norman Kater, who deals ade-
quately with the antiquity of
sheep as a domestic animal
through references to passages
in Holy Scripture, writes:
It is a fortunate thing for the wool-
industry at large that, with the help
of this country, good fine-wool flocks
have been established in various
other lands, notably South Africa.
Had it not been so there would now
be such a shortage of fine-wool that
to clothe the world-population large
quantities of synthetic fibres would
have to be used, and people would
become so accustomed to artificial
clothing-material that it might be
very difficult for wool to compete
with it.
Then we have the passage in
the chapter on the migration of
the Merino:
For it was as the “breed of Spiin”
or “the Spanish Sheep” that the
Merino was best known to those men
of the 18 th century in Europe who
cast envious eyes across the barriers
of the Spanish embargo. But no
embargo can remain intact or long
resist the forward thrust of history.
I wonder.
A point of interest is un-
covered in tracing the spread of


m
mm
m
i i
m
M
uoS;
??/
Y/..
58%
mi!
wm
. i
’gem.
i
■
Sv
m
:><■«
mt
■v<:
There are no
BETTER CEILINGS!
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings are renowned, not only for
their beauty of design, but because they are truly
permanent and trouble free. Decide now on INEX-
PENSIVE Wunderlich Metal Ceilings—Ceilings that
• LAST A LIFETIME • SELDOM NEED REPAINTING
• DO NOT STAIN OR CRACK • NEED NO REPAIRS
Ideal also for covering over faulty or dilapidated
ceilings in old homes.
Ask your local hardware merchant, 'phone MX 2411 or
write to Wunderlich Limited, Dept. M, Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for prices and illustrated catalogue.
modern
METAL CEILINGS
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illus-
trated is the
“FARMERS
BOY»
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or jtelephone
your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.YV. s Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1611.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’EAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. PA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Etd.
74 Castlereagk St., Sydney.
$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
©
WELL
LININGS
o
S 3
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN LISMORE.
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE TAMWORTH.
the breed from Europe to the
New World, notably America.
One of the first men to import
them to America was a French-
man, Dupont de Nemours,
founder of the great American
munitions-firms firms that
today are spending tens of
millions of dollars on research
and publicity to prove to the
world that, dacron, terylene and
other synthetics are equal to or
better than wool.
The book, without laboring
any point, will give the historian
his points of discussion, the
breeder his chance to assess the
change that breeding-trends
have made in the breed, and the
researchman much valuable
material on which to work.
Maps, diagrams and illustra-
tions (although some of the
latter may be touched-up too
finely for the critical) all add-up
to an adequate production
covering the growth of Austra-
lia’s greatest economic stake and
the men who made it.
A. I. K.
Progeny-testing Rams
“Jubilee”: Professor Rae, of
New Zealand’s Massey College,
isn’t enthusiastic about progeny-
testing of rams, for the reason
that a two-tooth ram will be
four years old before his first
?we progeny have lambs.
Rather, he says, select a ram
on the records of his half-sisters
by the same sire. The likeliest
ram would be one, born as a
twin, whose half-sister gave the
highest lambing percentages of
any group of half-sisters in the
flock.
In practice, the average lamb-
ing performance—preferably as
two-tooths —of each ram’s half-
sisters would be made available
to buyers. Thus, at ram-sales,
where offerings are from different
flocks, the corresponding half-
sisters’ performances would be
available for comparison.
Other points in the rams would,
of be visible, unless
skilfully camouflaged by “trim-
ming”—a highly objectionable
practice, by the way, which is
becoming more common.
Mohair
“Geep”: “Motuku” is right
when he' says (B. 28/12/’55)
that the term “mohair” is cor-
rectly used only for the long
silky hair of the Angora-goat.
is just 100 years since the
first Angoras were imported into
Australia: in 1856 seven head
were landed from South Africa.
In 1873 the mohair from small
flocks then established in Vic-
toria sold at an average price of
3s. 6d. a pound ; 30 years later
a sample from N.S.W. sold in
New York at 4s. 2d. a pound.
Flocks bred by crossing pure
imported Angoras with the
common short - haired goats
were fairly large in South Aus-
tralia by 1888.
Australian conditions could be
well-suited to the breeding of
Angoras, the only condition
they really cannot stand b&ng
excessive dampness, in which they
readily fall victims to fluke and
other parasites. They thrive on
rough, dry, hilly country un-
suited to sheep, and are useful in
clearing land of scrub and coarse
grass. Weeds, brush-shoots,
heath and brambles are usually
cleaned-up by them in preference
to succulent grasses.
That production of mohair in
this country has been negligible
is due perhaps to the fact that
sheep and cattle have been kept
profitably everywhere on the fair
country and there has been little
cJJ to make use of the poorer,
hilly land. A limited amount of
plain mohair-cloth was manu-
factured in Victoria just prior to
the last war, most of it being
used for nun’s robing.
The world-market for mohair
has fluctuated considerably in
the past, with output from the
chief producing countries stead-
ily declining. The decline has
been due mainly to increasing
demand for artificial silks and,
to a lesser extent, for wool-
mixtures.
"Pittman Technique"
“Clover”: K. G. Schoeffel
(B. 4/1 /’ 56) says that “the
Pittman method has been em-
ployed successfully in Victoria
by farmers and graziers for a
number of years,” and the
experience of present writer may
be of interest to others improv-
ing similar country.
In 1946 I set out to sow sub.-
clover on 1600 acres of poor
country, of Silurian and granite
origins, in Victoria’s central high-
lands. From 1946 to 1950 I
tried all the accepted methods
suggested by my agricultural-
college training and by the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture.
Different rates of seed and
super., and several different
methods of sowing, produced the
same result complete failure.
Germination was good, but in
a few weeks almost all of the
plants turned yellow, then red,
and then died.
In 1951, in desperation, I
decided to try inoculating the
sub.-clover seed, and contacted
H. A. J. Pittman. He told me
the story of'his experiments (as
set out by Mr. Schoeffel). For
this country he suggested a trial
of molybdenum.
For two years I tried to do
it on the cheap, and skimped
the lime by using basic super.
Results were only fair.
For the past three years I
have used the complete Pittman
system—so-50 lime and super.,
molybdenum, inoculated seed,
and an intensified banding-effect
obtained by putting two fertiliser-
tubes in every second boot of
the drill. This gives 14in. rows,
double-strength. The ground
was disked once with an offset-
disk-cultivator, and harrowed,
before sowing. Three pounds
of sub.-clover, and three of a
mixture of cluster-, suckling- and
white-clovers were sown.
The results are startling.
Clover-plants are a rich dark-
green. Sub.-runners 36in. long
are common. The small clovers
form a thick mat. White-clover
has grown, persisted and spread
in this poor hill country.
The difference in the carrying-
capacity, and the value, of the
several hundred acres treated can
be imagined.
It is hard to understand that
the man who discovered and
recommended the technique
which gave these results should
have been penalised for so doing.
Wheat for Pigs
“Moola”: A good outlet for
much of Victoria’s rust-
damaged, low-grade wheat this
season will be through * pigs.
Rutherglen Research Station
workers have shown that pigs
can be raised economically from
birth to bacon-weights on grain
through self-feeders.
Experiments showed no appre-
ciable difference in the amount
of food needed to produce lib.
of dressed-weight when pigs
were self-fed or hand-fed once
or twice a day. Pigs fed once
a day grew as well as those fed
twice a day or self-fed —pro-
vided the one feed was large
enough to keep them going all
day.
Research - workers warn
against a tendency to over-
fatness if self-feeding is con-
tinued after light bacon-weights.
With well-designed, well-built
self-feeders there is no need to
crush wheat for pigs. Being
able to feed at leisure, a pig
becomes its own grinder.
Crushing does not improve the
value of wheat to sheep, either.
Being harder, barley cannot
be self-fed economically without
being crushed. Barley doesn’t
produce as rapid pig-weight
gains as wheat, but is still a
useful grain.
Ryecorn is not as good, but
can be improved .by mixing it
50-50 with wheat. Crushed-
oats must not comprise more
than one-third of a grain ration.
More than this supplies too
much fibre for easy digestion.
Bean-seed
“X.Y.”: If sown from Febru-
ary to March the bean-seed
crop will miss the harmful high
temperatures and weevil attacks
in N.S.W. It will still have
ample warm weather in which
to ripen.
In planting, allow Bin. to 12in.
between the seeds in the rows
and 3ft. between the drills.
Total amount of seed required
per acre runs from 201 b. to 301 b.
Addition of 2£cwt. of super-
phosphates per acre helps to
develop the beans.
As the crop grows, weed-out
the weaklings and cultivate as
for green-beans. When the
season is damp, skip the hilling
of the row. Marketing the first
crop of matured pods as green-
beans will ensure more uniform
ripening of the seed.
Plants should not be harvested
till most of the seed-pods are
dry and well matured, but not
open. Seeds that are badly
shaped, discolored or under-
sized should be thrown out in
the grading.
A good crop of bean-seed
averages 15 to 20 bushels an
acre.
Farm Hints
“C.A.A.”: Dry-mash for
young pullets must be a coarse
mixture, otherwise the birds will
go off the mash and consume too
high a proportion of grain. An
ideal dry-mash (in lOOlb.-units)
is 221 b. bran, 221 b. pollard, 441 b.
crushed-oats (or wheat), 51b,
buttermilk-powder, 61b. meat-
meal, lib. salt, |oz. manganese-
sulphate. Wet-mash should be
461 b. bran, 461 b. pollard, 51b.
buttermilk-powder, 31b. meat-
meal, lib. salt. For each 1001 b.
of mash, 501 b. of grain should be
fed. If the mashes are used for
intensive - rearing, meatmeal
should be increased by 41b. and
vitaminised oil-emulsion added.
“G.”: Young goslings should
not be given any food for 36
hours, after hatching. Fresh
water and grit may be provided.
Give bread-crumbs and milk,
with finely-chopped greenstuffs
for the first meal. Barley-meal,
pollard, and maizemeal may be
provided for the following two
or three weeks. If plenty of
greenstuff is available, after the
first few weeks only one meal a
day of other mash is required.
“C.A.A.”: Bore-water can be
improved by the addition of
lime to drinking-troughs. It is
best added late in the evening,
to allow for settling and clearing
overnight. Stir the water every
two or three days. A two-gal-
lon bucket of lime added to an
ordinary-size trough once a fort-
night is the desired quantity.
“Appco”: Orchardists who
run cows among their fruit-
trees often notice that some cows
show a marked fondness for
apples. This shouldn’t be en-
couraged, as apples contain a
large percentage of acids, and
are generally considered to dry
a cow off. Better not to take the
risk.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(14/1/’56)
The trend of the season has been conforming to the
Single cycle for some considerable time, although some
departure from this cycle has occurred of late, and it will
be interesting to observe whether the heavy rains which are
indicated in the north-west and coastal districts of Queens-
land eventuate during the next fortnight (from date of
report). Should they do so, the prospects of another good
year seem assured, although in many areas the autumn
rains may be patchy and below average.
Heavy falls should continue in the northern division
and south-west of Queensland during February, but patchy
elsewhere.
Moderate rains are also likely on the coast and table-
lands of N.S.W., but elsewhere in the State poor.
In Victoria and South Australia, February is likely to
be a very poor month, and the same can be said of Western
Australia, apart from good falls in the Fortescue and the
lower south coast area.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
i'
12 months £ 1/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
*The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
on a stage before, and the singer
of the title -role was 66!). But the
experience Mozart gained was
invaluable, and his natural flair
for the stage was fired.
A chance meeting with
Lorenzo da Ponte led to the
formation of opera’s most fruit-
ful partnership and the produc-
tion of three out of the four
masterpieces turned out by the
mature Mozart: “The Marriage
of Figaro,” “Don Giovanni”
and,. “Cosi Fan' Tutti” (“They
Ail Do It”).
This Lorenzo was a striking
character. Tall, swarthy, cadav-
erous, with black, piercing eyes,
jutting jaw, toothless and with a
great beak of a nose, he was a
Jew from an Italian ghetto who
had turned Catholic. He became
an abbe, but an attraction for
women had put a severe strain
on his piety. He was, in fact,
as a champion seducer of women
second only to his friend
Giovanni Casanova (who was
then, at 65, at the castle of Beet-
hoven’s patron, Count Walstein,
writing his famous Memoirs).
Da Ponte had come to Vienna,
where the composer had taken
up permanent residence, to
become opera-poet to Joseph’s
Court. He had come straight
from Dresden, with a celerity
induced by his having immedi-
ately before “betrayed” his
landlady and her two daughters.
After Mozart’s death the poet,
his welcome worn out in half-
a-dozen European countries,
Went to New York, where he ran
a grocery-store, tried his hand
at distilling, then farming, and
finally became the first Professor
of Italian at Columbia Univer-
sity. A conspicuous refutation of
the notion that youthful excesses
lead to an early death, he died
in New York in his 90th year.
Mozart, who had struck his
true comedy-vein with “Die
Entfiihrung aus dem Serail”
(“The Elopement from the
Harem”), fell with avidity on
the libretto Da Ponte wrote for
him for their initial collabora-
tion—“ The Marriage of Figaro,”
based on part of the Beau-
marchais comedy ; the wily Da
Ponte had to work on the
Emperor to get the play (the
book had been described as a
“moral blister”) approved.
The libretto is full of wit and
good situations, and for it
Mozart wrote a score that
bubbles like champagne, full of
wonderful arias and concerted
numbers, and with his gift for
characterisation in music fully
exercised.
“Don Giovanni,” which fol-
lowed, has been called the per-
fect opera. There is only one
opera in the regular repertoire
older than it, and that is
“Figaro.” It received its premiere
on October 29, 1787, when
Phillip was on the voyage to
found Australia’s first settle-
ment.
Interspersed with this operatic
writing, Mozart was turning out
an enormous volume of music of
all sorts, with commissions for
cassations, divertimenti, sere-
nades and other social music
forming the basis of his bread-
and-butter material. He had by
then 38 symphonies behind him,
including such famous ones as
the “Paris,” the “Linz,” the
“Prague” aifd the “Haffner.”
By now the flame of his genius
was burning at white heat. In
the eight weeks , between mid-
June and August 10, 1788, he
composed his last and three
greatest, symphonies: the 39th,
40th and 41st (the “Jupiter”).
Each is a work comparable with
the best of Beethoven, the C
Major of Schubert and the
Brahms First. It was a feat of
high-speed endurance-composing
without peer. The final move-
ment of the “Jupiter” is a giant
in fugal form in which the com-
poser used five separate themes,
finishing with a magnificent coda
in which all five sing together.
Even the archsymphonist Beet-
hoven never attempted such a
feat.
Extreme poverty, made sharper
by Constanze’s constant child-
births and subsequent bereave-
ments and her increasingly poor
health, as well as his driving him-
self to the limit both to make
ends meet and to satisfy his
strong creative urge, was now
seriously undermining Mozart’s
precarious health. Even so, he
pushed on with “The Magic
Flute,” an opera set to a hotch-
potch of a libretto supplied by
Emanuel Schickenader, a charl-
atan who lived on the fringe of
the theatre. Audiences have long
given up trying to analyse its
complexities and the Masonic
symbols which stud it. But
Mozart wrote for it a magical
score and arias to test the
greatest singers, including one
for the Queen of the Night which
has a terrifying high F.
While engaged on its composi-
tion Mozart received a visit from
a mysterious stranger with a
commission to write a Requiem.
He made one stipulation:
Mozart was never to try to find
out who commissioned it.
It turned out later to be a
perfectly simple explanation.
The map was an agent of Count
von Wallsegg, an eccentric noble-
man who, as an amateur con-
ductor, was given to acquiring
other men’s creative works and
passing them off as his own.
Mozart didn’t know this, and
in the overwrought state'of his
mind, induced by worry and
overwork, he imagined that it
was an emissary of the Devil
commissioning him to write his
own death-music. He began it
at once; but in the midst of
these two lots of compositions
he received a request from the
Emperor Leopold II to compose
an opera for his crowning at
Prague as King of Bohemia.
To that city the composer,
sped, for in those days a
“request” was an order. He took
his favorite pupil, Sussmayer,
With him to help with the
orchestration.
He completed the work —“The
Clemency of Titus,” a turgid
Italian tragedy—in the incredible
time of 16 days, and thereby
shattered the last remaining
vestiges of his health. He had
time only to finish “The Magic
Flute,” which was a brilliant
success (“Titus” proved a
failure), and portion of the
“Requiem” before he took to
his death-bed. The “Requiem,”
finished afterwards by Suss-
mayer, was performed at the
funeral ceremonies of Beethoven
and Chopin.
In operatic - comedy Mozart
stands alone, and his processes
were unparalleled. He wrote his
greatest, opera, “Don Giovanni,”
amid the diversions of chatter and
hubbub around him, with other
people playing music and his
friends plying him with punch
and dragging him off spasmodi-
cally to play bowls or billiards:
he could yet turn-out at amazing
speed page after page of flawless
music. He said the variety of
noises “gave him ideas.”
A few years before he died
he did receive a Court appoint-
ment, as composer to the
Emperor Joseph II —Gluck’s old
post. That composer’s stipend
had been 2000 florins per
annum; for Mozart, incom-
parably more gifted, Joseph
reduced it to 800. It was not
for nothing that Horace Wal-
pole referred to that monarch
as “His Imperial Rapacity.”
“Eternal sunshine in music,”
has said a great musicologist,
“thy name is Mozart.” In his
greatest symphonies and quar-
tets there are none of the Faust-
like soul-upheavals that stud
Beethoven’s major works; no-
where is there any sign of the
morbid self-pity such as drenched
Tschaikowsky’s music. His
maturest music, however, refutes
utterly the charge that, despite
its many other qualities,
emotionally it is shallow.
No one, listening to his great
Quintet in G Minor, his last
three symphonies, his large-scale
Piano Fantasia in C Minor,
could ever believe that. Fu
sheer consistency in architectural
perfection, for the inexhaustible
melodic invention and his flaw-
less taste, his music has no equal.
Long years after Mozart had
died someone asked Aloysia, his
first love (she was then a white-
haired old lady), why she had
turned-down the composer. She
replied: “I didn’t know, you
see ; he was such a little man.”
He was sft. 2in. and Bst.; but
he was a colossus of the arts,
taking his place beside Shak-
speare and Dante, Raphael and
Michelangelo, Bach and Beet-
hoven.
Mozart died on the morning of
December 5, 1791, a few weeks
short of his 36th birthday,
left practically no money, and
so his body was committed to
a common grave with several
other paupers. The funeral
cortege was dispersed by a
violent storm, and when later
Constanze went to locate the
grave the sexton was dead and
the gravediggers had forgotten
where it was. It has never been
found.
charmed lives that day, but we
learnt that it takes an enormous
volume of frontal fire to stop
well - dispersed, fast - moving
troops particularly if the
defenders, in their panic, forget
to lower their sights as the
attackers come closer.
After some two hours the
heavy fighting came to an end,
and there was a temporary lull
when we came to a broad fixed
line of wire, known as the
switch-line, cutting across our
path at an angle. Bedells had
already struck the switch-line on
his right-flank, and while he was
busy capturing an enemy post
there Mcßobbie’s platoon had
come to the front. So I told
“Sweetheart mine, your lips were made for kisses, NOT
for dark plug station-tobacco !”
him to cut a passage for the
tanks.
It looked like a long job, and
as he started it I went ahead,
exploring eastwards along the
wire until I found an opening
where a good motor-track ran
through it. I called for a section
to test it for mines—and I’ve
never seen more thorough test-
ing. Giant Corporal Jock
McGowan, later killed in action
in Crete, was putting his full
2501 b. behind each thrust of the
rifle that drove his bayonet full-
length into the ground ; if there
was a mine there he was appar-
ently determined to find it the
hard way. Luckily, there were
no mines, and our force went
through.
We were closer to the sea
now, and could see the un-
occupied hill which was the
centre of our objective just
beyond the next wadi. The wadi
was too steep-sided for tanks to
cross, so, to make up for the
times he had fought without
them, Bedells now went off on
an exploitation role to the south
with all six tanks under his
command. With their main task
done the tanks went to the front
and showed the way across the
open country in search of fresh
adventures.
I was leading the other
platoons across the wadi when
we came under fire from a fort
on our left, built into the wadi’s
northern bank. I then sent
Johnson with his platoon to
subdue the remaining enemy
posts from the end of the switch-
line to the sea. He was joined
in the attack on the last of these
by a section from B-company
which had thus linked-up with
us after sweeping the coastal
flank clear of the enemy.
Mcßobbie’s platoon was con-
solidating on our objective,
looking down at the cool blue
sea, when a carrier rattled up
out of the wadi and its com-
mander asked me for further
orders. In answer to my “Who
are you?” he said that he was
in charge of anti-tank guns
under my command and that his
task had been to provide anti-
tank protection on my right-
flank throughout the attack. I’d
never heard of him or his anti-
tank guns before, but was
pleased to hear we’d been pro-
tected. Now I told him to
scout round to the south where
Bedells had gone with the tanks.
He was back again before
Bedells with the news that
beyond a big wadi to the south
were enemy posts that did not
fire on him —plums apparently
ripe for the plucking. These
must have been posts overlook-
ing the 2/6th Battalion’s right-
flank. I sent the C.S.M., Jim
Wilson, off with a party to bring
in these reluctant heroes and
add them to the bag that
Johnson had gathered from the
last posts in our immediate
neighborhood.
In the meantime Bedells, with
his six tanks and, presumably,
his anti-tank protection, had
pushed south. The tanks over-
came anti-tank gunfire to silence
Post 8, and the force then
closed in on Post 11, a quarter
of a mile to the south. The
commander of Post 11, who had
held out doggedly against
attacks by the 2/6th Battalion,
now decided that honor had
been satisfied and surrendered
to this new threat from the
north. When he raised the
white-flag the men of the 2/6th
surged forward into the post.
Thereupon Binks, who had
followed Bedells up, advised
him to withdraw his tired
platoon and leave the disarming
of the post to the 2/6th.
Bedells did so, refraining from
entering this last post to sur-
render to his command.
The official history relates
how it was manned and armed:
“Out of the post came crowding
350 Italians, including 24
officers. In it were two field-
guns, two 3-inch mortars and
some of smaller calibre, six
anti-tank guns, 12 medium and
27 light machine-guns, and 325
rifles.”
Back on the company-
objective we were joined by
Lieut.-Colonel Dougherty and
his 2/4th Battalion, eager for a
fight but not destined to have
one this day. In the afternoon
Ron Horley’s A-company, which
had been following us all the
morning, was sent into the
southernmost corner of the
Bardia perimeter, whither we
had been forbidden to go, and
there captured the one remain-
ing Italian post, which did not
surrender until after its gallant
commander had been seriously
wounded. . ,
When he fell, all Bardia had
fallen ; but it would not be soon
forgotten. For this was the
furnace in which the steel of the
new Australian Army had been
tempered to a strength and
resilience that would make it a
redoubtable weapon on future
battlefields across half the
world —from the snows or
Greece to the swamps and
jungles of New Guinea.


The Quiet American
Graham Greene
Graham Greene at the peak of his literary career.
Chosen by the Book Society Daily Mail “Book of the Month.
At all booksellers - - - 17/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
JOHN GUNTHER'S "INSIDE AFRICA"
John Gunther has become famous with his “Inside” books as the world’s foremost
reporter of what is happening throughout the world. His works on Europe,
Asia Latin America and the U.S.A. were acclaimed as serious contributions to
contemporary knowledge-fair, intelligent and well-informed. Now comes
“Inside Africa,” written with all his ability for portraying the colourful and the
significant. Fabulous and powerful figures parade through these pages, and
at the same time he discusses the infiltration of communism, the survival of the
white man in Africa and colonial systems. It is a book to read for information,
and a book to read for pleasure. 37 / 3 (P o ** V 9 )*
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. : : 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Cl.
THE GREAT EPIC OF THE SEA
h.m.s. ULYSSES
A NOVEL BY ALISTAIR MACLEAN
Now available again from all booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
Barman” is from “Coxon’s Comic
Songster,” though Qther items are
acknowledged to this same publication.
Mention must be made of the hand-
some appearance of “Colonial
Ballads”: well printed and beautifully
set out, it is considerably enhanced by
Ronald G. Edwards’s apt and often
witty line-drawings. Whether it is to
be given a place of honor on the book-
shelf or the piano-top will be a matter
of choice for its fortunate owners.
Nancy Keesing.
A Town in Victoria
The Victorian township of St.
Arnaud, one leams from the centenary-
book, Track of the Years by Yvonne
S. Palmer (Melbourne University
Press), was only the south-east corner
of the Yawong Springs run when a
party of seven prospectors discovered
“a New Bendigo” towards the
neighboring Swanwater run in January,
1855.
At one time after the “New Bendigo”
rush, there were thought to be 5000
people in the district; but the field was
not extraordinarily rich for surface-
miners (although the Lord Nelson com-
pany mined £1,000,000 in 22 years),
and as the population thinned, the
settlement moved east with the gold to
the headwaters of the St. Arnaud,
named after the French commander in
the Crimea—the St. Arnaud creek still
flows, like Sydney’s Tank Stream,
under the town.
This survey hardly extends beyond
the turn of the century in any of its
departments; Miss Palmer remarks
somewhere that every country town
has its own flavor, and she makes con-
siderable efforts to revive the . atmo-
sphere of St. Arnaud’s early days,
when squatters and miners were on
unusually good terms, when the town
streets, which were to have been named
after men of science, were changed
after a ball at the St. Arnaud hotel to
the names of the Crimean-war leaders,
when small farmers grew their own
wine, when the poundkeeper resigned
to take up his Irish baronetcy, when a
builder (whose more regular trade was
that of tailor) put up a house for £lO
and, asked by the owner to inspect its
deficiencies, remarked that '"nothing
was the matter —it only wanted some-
thing to prop it up” . . .
When the men from St. Peter’s
would drink all day with the men of
St. Arnaud and fight them in the
streets at night; when the men of St.
Arnaud paid return-visits to the men
of St. Peter’s; when young James
Stewart became Mayor and built what
some thought then was an unneces-
sarily-extravagant town-hall, and, after
growing rich, failed to return from a
second trip to Scotland and became
partner in a Glasgow engineering firm,
so that details about him had to be
sought from his son in New York;
when the hand of another young Scots-
man, George Sinclair Fraser, could be
traced in the graceful and titillating
fulminations of St. Arnaud’s “Junius,”
the “Tim Doolan” who wrote from
“Hatter’s Gully” to the St. Amaud
“Mercury”: —
Every change is said to be for the
better, and every change has been
for the worse. We were better off
before St. Arnaud was either a Shire
or a Borough than we are ever likely
to be again. Then every man had
money in his pocket —a pound
weight of gold was no great day’s
work then. Now we have so many
watch- and clock-makers that all the
township goes on tick.
Well, you see, we had no Church
of England then; no, nor Chapel
neither; nor leather-lunged ranters
baying at the moon, nor bumbailiffs;
nor big leases; nor Tents of Recha-
bites ; nor Town Inspectors; nor
new nor wooden pave-
ments ; nor County Court sum-
monses ; nor misfit reservoirs; nor
silver-mining swindles; nor new
town-halls that we could not pay
for; nor common schools with
broken windows . . .
The “Mercury” itself was indignant
about the pollution of the creek, for
which Miss Palmer finds an epilogue
in a paragraph 12 years later:—
A striking peculiarity of the
St. Arnaud burial-ground just now
is the large number of the newly-
made graves of children . , .
And there was the sad case of the
Shire Secretary, so gracious, so hospit-
able, who was brought to account over a
deficiency of £240, became defiant, was
prosecuted and, to everyone’s horror,
sentenced to a year’s jail; and St.
Arnaud’s best murder, when Andrew
Vair, evading court over a mine-dis-
pute, was put into solitary confinement
for 16 days, after which he brooded
and visited Mr. Amos Cheale, carrying
a double-barrelled gun: —
Vair told Mr. Cheale the gun had
two bullets in it, asked him if he was
ready to receive them, and
immediately fired both shots.
There was a widow who became a
criminal so that her children might be
sent to a reformatory; and there was
a rhyming-shoemaker, of whose art
Miss Palmer gives no sample. But she
makes up for this with an example
from a general-store advertisement:—
My Blankets, Flannels, Quilts and
Rugs
Are proof against the race of Bugs.
The Hose and Shirts I have in store
Would suit the Franco-Prussian War.
It will be seen that in the web of
complex detail which the writer of
centenary-books has to weave, Miss
Palmer retains her interest in human
beings; and if one tends to skip the
account of how roads were built, and
Land Acts gave the district a new
farming-community, it is to come to
stories like that of the Model Band
and the Town Band which struck up
different tunes on the declaration of the
borough-council poll in 1897 and,
neither being willing to give way, con-
tinued for an hour and 40 minutes
without stopping.
TWO FROM YACKANDANDAH
!. CEMETERY
You, whose mouths scorned the dry Aus-
tralian way,
To speak of beauty or confess her charms,
Now sleep—you had no choice—all night,
all day,
Locked in the deep enchantment of her
arms.
2. STORM
The storm has set the willows in a stir ;
They toss their branches, and they all are
hair
Blown wildly, Maenad-like, as only woman
Can use a storm to magnify the human.
N.S.W.
ERNEST G. MOLL.
Reviewed Briefly
Hickory Dickory Dock: Agatha
Christie (Crime Club). At a boarding-
house for London students unrelated
belongings of no value are stolen.
Poiret no sooner fixes it upon a girl
counterfeiting kleptomania to interest
a young psychiatrist she is fond of than
the girl is murdered; so he has to
peel the onion-skin of appearance until
he finds a more solid and sinister
motive for crime.
* * * *
The Tooth and the Nail: Bill S.
Ballinger (Reinhardt). The most
subtle and complex mystery-thriller
one has seen for a long while. It opens
with the trial of a New York house-
holder for killing, cutting-up and burn-
ing his blackmailing valet-chauffeur.
The next scene is a flashback to when
the victim met the girl whom the
householder is to murder, and then
court-scene and flashback alternate
until the true story catches up with the
court-case, by which time scenes of
back-stage conjuring, big-money poker-
playing and cross-country sleuthing
have been expertly handled and a
brilliant feat of literary prestidigitation
prepared for the denouement.
* * * *
Islands of Danger: Alan and Mary
Wood (Evans). An account, with
photographs, of how the Channel Isles
fared under German occupation in
World War 11. It is a curiously con-
tradictory story, like most war-stories
or peace-stories, of German restraint
on the one hand and brutality on the
other; of some people left alone and
others detailed to labor-gangs on the
Continent, of some imprisoned or
executed for listening to the radio, yet
of a German commandant dropping in
every day to ask the bailiff’s secretary
the 8.8. C. news, and of the Baron von
Schmettow always bringing a radio to
a house he visited on Jersey so that
the old woman caretaker might listen
to her own country (England). There
are the intensely patriotic islanders,
but also the informers, and those who
were angry over the successful com-
mando-raids led by Major Appleyard
because after them the Germans
restricted the rights of the islanders to
wander over the countryside. With
end-paper maps, an appendix of occu-
pation-honors, of illegitimate births and
a bibliography.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 366
Across
I—Sleeper1—Sleeper sounds like 7-across.
(5, 2,1, 5)
7 —The G.P.O. provides for this
birth of Lindwall or Larwood?
(7, 8)
10 —Banqueting Roman consul men-
tions the fifty you pick against
us. (8) . .
13— -A Forsyte initiates juggling or
legerdemain, yodelling or needle-
work. (6)
14— How the king speaks of himself
(before and after abdication)
and laughter by the heart of a
kiwi eider without the German
base in China. (3-3-3)
16—Hose such slugs. (5)
19— Royal beer is back with large
differences. (5)
20— Under the limit, but why the
heavenliness? (9)
21— Six tease none but a termagant.
(6)
23 —A group of schoolboys who may
have a row with Menzies con-
cerning finance. (5, 3)
25 —You must get money to ring an
apartment by way of Riga.
(7, 2,6)
28—Boxer’s offsider shows that he is
nervy strings. (6,7)
I ~
Down
1 — Flora includes such a cause of
some humming stream that hasn t
dried up meat in a less elevated
position. (3-6)
2 Tear to be seen on many a
tombstone. (3)
3 Hurry. (3)
4 The railway-lmes rest on such
neckwear. (4) .
5 Mr. and Mrs. Dy’s married
daughter identifies herself thus in
the birth-notice for the poor. (5)
6 Dean is to act to get money in
the land where there is No
drama. (5)
8— Cries for the mother of the brave
at first. (7)
9 Press personality who used to
run a weekly metal-worker. (4-5)
11— A hundred fish don’t let go ! (5)
12 — Sort of window makes heavy
metal underweight. (9)
15—Fibre is like this shortly. (2, 5)
17— The branch is under 100, so go
up the tree. (5)
18 — Says a bone is broken as a
source of fertiliser, oil, sauce,
cattle-food, etc. (4-5)
21 —The habits of the vicious are
against summer desserts. (5)
22—Lynch with such improper prose.
(5)
24—Dash the Spanish article. (4)
26 — Conjunction article on North
Dakota. (3)
27 — Girl or boy with one between five
and fifty. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 365


. . , / ; . " , x y vs#is W%f|
• ■<* «? '" ' A jJt .: v >gf V«£»3j«
5%:
iJ
f: S-,
:. ',v ' / >,,.*•:<# -
A; -> ; *
w
m
m
'& yx?s:i <* :
'-dfs
m
mm
1
r ■ '
m
I
* JSife «,
M
&
!fl ,f‘'V:.;i I
JP • • ' *+P^
«3f s*
mst
W ■* m
Ud
m.
» •.& :C. *., m
Wt.
CH
mmmm
; v
y*& :
f I r si
v" >■
*s ’ v 'X
W* : d''-d
•yjxw: ■:::■■ >
w
m
" ■ .
WdMMmdM
m
l|||||iy§&x
■.vaV-v/v.'.'.v;^
!§»
Si¥
ij£“@ >v -3SiB&Sg
iiSWSigS
Your Home 9 your Cur 9 und YOU —
!&s the breadwinner you work hard to provide your family wit!
every ounce of material welfare you can afford, doing your utmost
to keep them happy, healthy and secure —that’s as long as you live!
Is that enough? Of course it’s not, if you want for them a secure
future, because you know there is the troubling possibility that
you may not always be here to look after them . . .
Plan now for the future security of your family with an M.L.C.
Family Income Policy which will provide for a guaranteed
monthly income for ybur dependants. This policy offers the
greatest life assurance cover for the premium you can afford. Here
are the actual benefits provided by an M.L.C. Family Income
(Scale 3) Policy upon death within the selected family income
period of up to 20 years.
(1) Full amount of policy plus bonuses.
(2) Guaranteed Monthly Income for balance of the selected
period.
Should the policy holder survive the period for family income
benefits the policy continues as a general life policy.
The M.L.C. also offers variations
of these family income benefits
—particulars will be readily
supplied without obligation on
request.
Contacf the nearest M.L.C.
Office or Representative for
further details of this Plan .
ar&V
BE WELL ADVISED BY THE M.L.C. MAN
, ML49a/FP
The
M.L.C.
(incorporated in N.S.If.)
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS
Assurance Co. Limited
