

Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange im-
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Yoiir nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons
Ftd. will supply details of this service. Orders for
delivery in Great Britain before Christmas must be
placed before 16th November.
Full Details from
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST„ LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“SIGNAL 626 " — PAGE 22
“The Bulletin/’ Vol. 77 No. 4002
Wednesday, October 24, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
THE KING'S SUMPTUOUS
BEDROOM AT KNOLE HOUSE
TT'NOLE HOUSE, standing in its nine-
hundred acres of parkland near
Sevenoaks in Kent, is one of the largest
private houses in England. This great
mansion, with its three hundred and
sixty-five rooms, fifty-two staircases and
seven courtyards, covers an area of four
acres. During its long history it served
as a feudal stronghold, an ecclesiastical
palace, a Renaissance mansion and a
Kentish home.
The first existing documentary refer-
ence to Knole is dated 1281, but the
existing house was begun by Thomas
Bourchier, Archbishop of Canterbury, in
1456. In 1603 it was greatly extended by
Thomas Sackville, the first Earl of
Dorset, to whom it was granted by
Elizabeth I. He added the long flanking
wings with graceful gables and the
regular groups of tall brick chimneys.
In 1947, through the generosity of the
present Lord Sackville, Knole was given
to the British nation for permanent
preservation under the care of the
National Trust, and it is open to visitors
at certain times.
A tour of the house takes one and a
half hours, and visitors can see treasures
of every kind. The magnificent State
Rooms contain, on loan from Lord Sack-
ville, a large and valuable collection of
paintings, rugs, tapestries and furniture,
dating from the early-17th to the late-
18th centuries. The rooms bear such
names as the Venetian Ambassador’s
Room, the Reynolds Room, the Spangle
Bedroom, Cartoon Gallery, Leicester
Gallery, the Ballroom and the King’s
Bedroom illustrated here.
This room, which represents the peak
of luxury, was furnished for James I.
The enormous bed, with its hangings
embroidered in silver and gold with coral
lining, and its ostrich plumes, is said to
have cost £BOOO, the present-day equival-
ent being about £40,000. The room
contains Mortlake tapestry and solid
silver furniture, including a table —all of
17th-century date. The unparalleled
wealth of the furnishings throughout the
house makes Knole unique as a repository
of the arts of the 17th century.
No. 321: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNXEK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
"THE SINGING GOLD"
It is so long since Dorothy Cottrell’s
The Singing Gold, now published for
the first time in Australia by Angus
and Robertson, has been seen around
the bookshops that, before discussing
it, one should perhaps recall who she
is. According to the invaluable Morris
Miller: —
In the “Ladies’ Home Journal”—
these, except for readers of the
“Ladies’ Home Journal,” are dangerous
words; yet Angus and Robertson, giving
us “Coonardoo” and “By Reef and
Palm,” have been highly selective in
their reprints of late; and, seen in
extracts and mentioned in essays, “The
Singing Gold” has something of a
reputation.
Can it possibly emerge from “The
Ladies’ Home Journal” to be another
Australian semi-classic?
On the whole, not. But it does not
miss by much. And if it does keep on
being reprinted nobody will ever com-
plain, for it is a delightful piece of
reading . . . only a little fluffy.
When you first start reading it seems
like Katherine Mansfield’s New
Zealand stories; like Colette’s semi-
autobiographical novels; like, to come
into modem times and to the novel
that continues to surprise one, Ruth
Park’s enchanting “Pink Flannel.”
Dorothy Cottrell is recalling her child-
hood in Queensland, and her young
heroine, not altogether happily called
Joan Jerrington - Whatmore (what -
next!), is up a gumtree ... no, it is a
peppertree;—
There were many things of sur-
passing interest in that small high
world of the trees. Willy-wagtails
built dainty little nests in deep
crotches, and the mud homes of the
black-and-gold hornets clung to the
under branches. Slim wild bees
came to the fine cream lace of the
pepper-flowers, and blue-and-ruby
mistletoe-birds ate the half-formed
bitter berries... .Lovely pompous
little crested-pigeons flirted and
strutted and bowed there through the
summer days, and- sometimes great
slow black butterflies came sailing
through the green light. And from
the biggest peppertree of all you
could drop on to the top of the high
dogfence that surrounded the home-
stead. This I did with infinite
stealth and then disappeared into
the glittering box-suckers about the
fowlyards.
Joan enacts her splendid, solitary
drama of Captain Dashaway of the
Light Dragoons; she inspects the secret
hiding-place where her old toys live
in the side of a ditch; she wanders
magnificently along the red gravelly
banks of the bore-drain; she hears her
father tell great tales of travels further
north when the larks rose in hundreds
from the plains (the “singing gold”) to
be preyed-on by the hovering hawks
(one lark took shelter in the drover’s
shirt); she gets her first gun and
shoots her first kangaroo by moon-
light . . , It is a small girl as firmly
and richly at home on her native earth
as are Norman Lindsay’s small boys
in the diggings of Redheap.
Then, very swiftly, this wild bush-
urchin goes to school at Toowoomba
and stays with her grandmother; and
the appeal of the story, though still
sound and legitimate, with the grand-
mother excellently portrayed, begins to
become more feminine:—
Old silver, flashing, shimmering
glass, rose satin tea-cosies over-
clouded with rare lace and trimmed
with satin roses, each dainty, frilly,
overdecorated absurdity or quaint
article of beauty in the room had its
history, and the frail, mittened hands
displayed them with pride.
This takes us to the period of World
War I; and here arrives the weakness
of the novel—sentimentality. It was a
tragic-enough period; young lovers did
come to disaster; girls do kiss letters;
young soldiers do, no doubt, sniffle
upon occasions; but really there is
too much kissing and sniffling about the
couple whom, altogether improbably,
young Joan watches over the garden-
gate:—
A year ago the boy and girl had
come to it one bright morning with
young faces rather pale, and rather
proud, and whispered, and whispered,
and then when they came out
through the little gate the girl was
crying, and although the boy-man
in his very new khaki tried to com-
fort her he sniffed suspiciously.
Now the girl worked there alone,
worked hastily among the plants,
and then sat knitting on the log,
and sometimes she cried. I felt both
sorry for her, and jealous of her,
for although she was lonely she was
always reading chubby letters, and
from the way in which she kissed
them I assumed they were not bright
and sensible . . .
So comes Joan’s own light-headed
marriage to a young bank-clerk in
uniform instead of to the jackeroo she
always meant to marry; their life on an
island of the Barrier Reef, a mixture
of moonlight and tarantulas; their sub-
sequent poverty in Sydney (sharing a
room at the People’s Palace, then a
flat in Darlinghurst); the feckless
husband’s feckless death; and Joan’s
remarriage to the right man (the
jackeroo; now a lion-hunter) at the
end.
It is all astonishingly like a reversed
feminine version of the marriage o;
David and Dora in “David Copper-
field”: the husband just as infantile as
Dora, the story in consequence falling
short of conviction and into a sort oi
golden haze, at once attractive anc
cloying:—
Mrs. Patson fell past me into
Clippings’s white pyjamaed arms,
where he stood holding a little candle
which turned his curls all gold and
made him look rather like a cherub
.. • - He slept very pink and warm,
with a slightly fierce forehead ; his
curls all gold as they had been on
the night he very carefully supported
Mrs; Patson He so loved good
suits, and he was always so shabby,
and liked bright laughter and games
and sunshine, yet came home every
night to me in the little cramped
flat, and was always so patient and
happy that I felt somehow unworthy,
and, kissing his curls, knew that I
had touched the crown of a hero.
Only readers of the “Ladies’ Home
Journal” could really be comfortable
with the curly little Clippings. And
the worst thing about it is that Clip-
pings, like Dora, is not too far from
credibility. One has the quite horrible
feeling that he is possible, if he were
not being cooed over like a baby. And,
of course, the real reason for all the
cooing is simply that the author, just
as Dickens did with Dora, proposes to
bump him off. One must be grateful
that Clippings, instead of dying a
lingering death on sofas for six months,
is at least shuffled-off cleanly under a
truck.
But one must be grateful, too, for
the comedy that permeates this story;
and more so for the real and attractive
picture of youth that is always to be
perceived through the golden haze, both
on the island in the Reef and in the
tough days in Sydney, when a pie was
a feast and a flat overlooking Woolloo-
mooloo could be paradise. If the early
chapters of the novel, the Queensland
days, are by far the best of it, the
whole thing remains very pleasant and,
in an odd way, partly for its setting,
partly for its youthful charm, distinc-
tive.
lola Dorothy Cottrell (nee Wilkin-
son) was born in 1902 at Picton,
N. S. Wales. She lived for a time
on a Queensland station and, soon
after her marriage in 1922 to Walter
Mackenzie Cottrell, an American,
went with him to live in the United
States. “The Singing Gold,” when
published as a book [by Houghton
Mifflin, of Boston] after being
serialised in the “Ladies’ Home
Journal,” was immediately success-
ful, being twice reprinted within a
month.
WILD GEESE
Long straggling
strings of birds would come
overhead at intervals.
Talk would cease.
Sitting, smoking in the dark
we listened to the geese
honking, horizon to horizon,
coming over high,
almost invisible
against the night sky,
faintly silhouetted by the stars.
We did not talk
about the birds;
we talked of important things,
like politics, war and peace.
They interrupted us.
Our talk would cease.
I can remember
nothing about it
now but the geese.
N.Z.
W. HHART-SMITH.
Last Views of Old China
A young Army officer in Malaya in
1945, Desmond Neill became a cadet
in the Malayan Civil Service; in his
visits to Singapore’s Chinatown he did
not know even enough Hokkien to ask
for a durian, the worst-smelling and
most exquisitely-flavored of fruits
except the Chinese lychee, so they sent
him to Amoy for a year or so to learn
the language, which is why his book
Elegant Flower (Murray) is mostly
about China. It is a last look at the
old place before the Communists drew
down on it like a blind.
At Amoy, on a little island between
the mainland and Formosa, Mr. Neill
studied not only Hokkien but his tutor,
Mr. Lim, a smooth Chinaman who
covered an inexhaustible interest in
everyone’s business with conversation-
exercises that prefaced every lesson,
in which his pupil was milked of all
the news about Madame Veronique’s
boarding-establishment.
When the pupil moved to rooms of
his own Mr. Lim most kindly provided
a house-boy; then Mr. Neill had to
manoeuvre to save Mr. Lim’s face
when he found that the house-boy was
ordering double-quantities of groceries
—Mr. Lim’s “squeeze,” or commis-
sion, on labor-supply. The portrait of
the soft - voiced, feminine - minded
Chinese, with his provincial elegancies
and back-stairs curiosities and his
tacit distaste for the rival linguist, Mr.
Ko, is done with real sympathy and
insight.
But the book is more interesting
when Mr. Neill goes abroad, to a
dinner-party with Chinese friends, for
instance, and then on to places of
night-life.
From Peking he went up to have a
look at the Wall; and in the city he
learned a great deal about different
qualities of jade, saw the Imperial
Palace and at a big restaurant was
initiated into roast duck. The huge,
fat duck, force-fed, was first brought
raw for the inspection of the party.
Then it was roasted for, it seems, only
a few minutes, in an oven like a
furnace, the point being that the
Chinese go for “the crisp golden skin,
which was sliced off in morsels with
just a bit of the flesh underneath to
form a convenient lining.” And of
this pleasure, at least, Mr. Neill speaks
as a participant, and with ecstasy,
returning to the Legation quarter “so
gorged that only with an effort could
the stairs be surmounted.”
He is also good on tea; at Foochow
he visited Mr. Tam, a tea-merchant, a
Toscanini of the tea-trade, who intro-
duced him to the “incredible strength
and bitterness” of Lapseng Souchong,
the high-priced, high-grade tea that
goes in small lots to Europe’s
Ambassadors and merchants ; Chingwo
Souchong, “strong and fragrant with
a slightly fishy smell”; coarse-leaved
Panyong Souchong, exported for
mixing with other tea; and Orange
Pekoe, “twisted like tiny wires among
which were some jasmine flowers.”
And then Mr. Tam brought out a few
dry leaves, greyish-green, long and
curled, with a silver fuzz on them:—
This tea you can never buy. It
is the priceless Monkey Pick, kept
only for tea-merchants and their
friends. Some tea-bushes and trees
grow in the mountains on inaccess-
ible cliffs, caressed by clouds and
mountain dew, and their leaves
absorb these precious essences. But
no man dares climb these precipitous
rocks. Some tea-farmers, however,
have trained monkeys who climb up,
grab the tender shoots, as they appear
in spring and bring them down to
their masters. Their reward is a
small cup of wine ...
Mr. Neill goes to a Chinese wedding,
refuses to be bashed about in a Chinese
sedan-chair, opines that because
Chinese architecture is light and easily
destroyed and rebuilt in the same style
on the same site, it is more lasting
than costly European architecture,
which crumbles into irreplaceable
ruins.
Returning to Singapore, he is as
delighted to find that he can ask for
a durian and be sure of getting it as
the Singapore Chinese are delighted to
be addressed in their own Hokkien.
He makes observations of the Elegant
Flower restaurant which gives its name
to the book. And from there he is
sent to Pahang, where he learns that
the Chinese cannot speak Hokkien,
only Cantonese. He takes leave of the
reader feeling in his pocket for the
card of Mr. Sim, who teaches
Cantonese.
"Traitor Extraordinary"
John Izon’s volume on Sir Thos.
Stucley: Traitor Extraordinary in
Andrew Melrose’s “Rogues Gallery”
series provides a shadowy and elusive
study of an Elizabethan character
who, while, so to speak, he “made the
headlines” in his time, has not quite
made them with posterity.
The meat of punsters,
doggerel bards and gossip in the Tudor
Age, his operations were so illegal and
so covert that his modern biographer
finds that a very great part of the
material about him consists of gaps.
How much this is so is shown by the
fact that, unable to produce a portrait
of him, his baffled 20th-century annalist
has been compelled to produce as his
jacket-piece and frontispiece a painting
described as “The Unknown Young
Man in Red. Typical of Stucley and
his contemporaries. Holbein School.”
Stucley was reputedly an illegitimate
son of Henry VIII. But nobody is sure.
He was, primarily, an adventurer, a
pirate or privateer. In the 20th century
he would not have bothered with
violence. He would have had an all-
lines, all-world airline-ticket and
would have devoted himself to the
palatable task of selling Sydney Town
Hall to the South Americans with
Centennial Park thrown in for a bonus,
the Long Bay Gold Mines, N.L., to
the Chinese and the Empire State build-
ing and Rockefeller Centre to the
frequenters of the Savoy —Australian
squatters for preference.
As the facilities for this sort of
traffic did not exist in his own time, he
did a thriving and traitorous confidence-
man business with kings and queens,
eked out with piracy, fraud and a little
violence and mercenary fighting.
Mr. Izon’s tale is somewhat sober
and prosaic in tone, thanks to lack of
detail in his material of a career which
ended very suddenly on the field of
Alcazar in 1578. But he provides a
magnificent factual background for
historical novelists. It seems astonish-
ing that nobody has made real use of
Stucley. About him there is one verse-
play and one abortive mid-Victorian
attempt at biography.
As Poland reaches out in the Red
gloom towards its imminent millennium
Dents have issued a new edition of
O. Halecki’s A History of Poland, first
published in English in 1942—there
was an earlier French edition. Con-
siderable revision and extension of the
original text has been done and
additions made to bring the tale of
events up to 1955. The book is
essentially a summary—it could be
nothing more, limited as it is to less
than 350 pages. But it is satisfactorily
comprehensive and concise in setting
out all the important facts, and in its
later chapters it is remarkably objec-
tive. A very valuable work of refer-
ence by one of the world’s most
eminent specialists in his subject—in
fact about the only modern one written
with authority. It has an excellent
index for good measure.


English make
Cake and Biscuit Maker
has eight design plates /
158—A. English made cake and biscuit maker, it
is completed with eight design biscuit
forming plates. Also for making eclairs,
cream puffs and meringues, and
as an icing decorator. Price
oniy IG/G
-^~8inMutcuj.
it:—
•S s v,x>* ? ,V-
>>>'-:■:?
f-ino
;e
m
V.
i
Wall Can Opener 32/6
156-B. With bracket to screw on
wall or cupboard, easy to operate.
Namco Presto Pres . Cooker
153-C. Fitted with new pressure
regulator, economical. £7/11/6.
Plastic Krisper , price 18/6
160-C. Seamless, 14 x 8-f x 4" keeps
vegetables fresh, and saves space.
Utility Dish , priced at 57/6
155-E. Seamless enamelled oval dish,
many uses in the home. 24 x 20.
Percolater , only 39/-
153-F. Embossed pattern,
cool grip handle. 6 cup.
• *
# • •
.*
• *
• «
• »
•«
• *
»«
• • •
••
»»
Tea Strainer , at 1/9
158-G. No more blocked
drains, 6|in. in diameter.
Selly Mould, at 4/11
153-H. Alum., in either
tortoise or rabbit design.
Preserving Pan
153-1. Alum. grd. base, suit
all stoves. 22 pts. £5/12/6.
Pie Plate, only 4/3
153-J. Non drip edge, for
Kerosene Press. Stove
160-K. Well designed for
hard wear. Priced at 55/-.
Ice Block Tray , 4/11
160-L. Plastic fridgee pole
tray. Holds 12 iceblocks.
Patty Tins , only 2/6
153-M. Seamless alum, in
boat or eclair shapes.
Plastic Food Cover
160-N. Seamless, with plas-
tic handle, 11 x 8". at 14/-.
Sin. Butcher’s Knife
156-0. Genuine Swed. ‘Berg’
polished wood handles. 12/6.
truth in advertising
80951
POST YOUR ORDERS TO ROX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
POSTAGE EXTRA. PHONE R 0951


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 4002
Wednesday, October 24, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
UNION IN EUROPE
THE Australian press has been too much absorbed
with such important matters as the antics of Mr.
Moynihan, “rock-’n’-roll” and the strange court
proceedings involving a Tasmanian university
professor to devote much space to the epoch-making
changes in political thought which are developing
both in Europe and in the Pacific at this moment.
But stories that the Australian Government
has decided to enter the American defence-zone
have received press mention, and are a matter about
which the Commonwealth Government should
clarify its attitude.
The new internationalism of Russia and the
United States, both with ambitions for world-
dominion, is having its effect on Australia’s future
and relationships. It is producing in Western
Europe—standing in the dock charged, both by
Russian Communism and United States capitalism,
with colonialism and imperialism—a feeling
that unless there is some joint agreement among
the old nations which once strongly influenced world
policies, they will undoubtedly find themselves
“saved” for either technocratic capitalism or
technocratic Communism.
Western Europe has developed two
missionaries of a new order, of whom the leader
appears to be Dr. Adenauer, Chancellor of West
Germany, and the immediate follower, M. Guy
Mollet, Premier of France.
These, faced with the developing tendency of
Mr. Dulles, as illustrated by the Suez affair and
the promulgation of new American theoretic
Radford plans for European nuclear defence in
defiance of European opinion, are working to build
the Western European Union, now about as power-
less as U.N.0., into an effective co-ordinator of
economic—and consequently military—policies of
self-help.
Nearly every overseas surrender, by whatever
European nation, in the colonial field has been
made over the past decade under pressure not only
from the Communists, but because of the pressure,
or failure to exert pressure, of the United States.
Indeed, the disastrous results of Yalta alone,
resulting in the establishment of Russia in a world
position of authority which it had never occupied
before, and the fall of the Nationalist Chinese
Government before the forces of Russian-armed
Communism, were directly due to United States
insistence on policies which were made in Russia.
Equally, the occupation by Russians of East
Germany and Czechoslovakia and the sell-out to
Tito would undoubtedly have been prevented if
the Churchillian theory of attack by Western forces
on the “soft underbelly” of Eastern Europe had
been adopted instead of allowing the Russians to
call the tune and virtually decide the shape of the
final phases of the war.
The trend of the new unity in Western Europe
has its dangers, as it has its promise. Achieved,
such a union of forces and concentration of aims as
are envisioned by the authors would insert a great
bargaining authority between the extremes of
American idealism and Russian fanaticism. That
is if a new unified bloc can be built without also
building new hates and antagonisms.
The new trend also has. a strong appeal
especially to small European nations with intensify-
ing trade problems. Some of its first manifestations
are in the plan now under discussions for a
“common market” —a Customs Union and Free
Trade within the greater portion of the Western
European area, providing a common and
untrammelled market with virtually pooled Western
European resources, including those of the United
Kingdom.
The Conservative Government in the United
Kingdom appears to welcome the first features of
the plan with some enthusiasm. Within the past
few days Mr. Harold Macmillan, speaking to a
press conference of world ambit, declared that
Europe had “torn itself to pieces” twice in his
lifetime like the ancient States of Greece, and had
“Balkanised itself.” Then, speaking of the new
European vision, he added:—
A great future opens up, a great progressive
future. If Western Europe, including the United
Kingdom, could develop into a free-trading area,
this would be a source of great strength—a
common market of 250,000,000 people.
It certainly would, if the obvious pitfalls could
be avoided. And it must have two results in short
order. It must bring about before long rationalisa-
tion of now-competing and nationally-protected
specialist industries in 17 countries, leading to
mass-production. This would generate an ability to
compete in the world market which would provide
a strong challenge to the Americans in fields which
are now largely their own.
At the same time, for the larger national units,
the whole scheme presents problems which seem
almost impossible of solution. For the United
Kingdom complete acceptance of a Customs Union
with the West of Europe would involve the
abandonment of Commonwealth preference. And
if that were an alternative, as Mr. Macmillan has
declared, “Britain would not hesitate. We must
choose the Commonwealth.”
On the other hand, a Socialist Government,
headed by a Gaitskell—or, as now seems nearly
as likely, an Aneurin Bevan—might not have the
same inhibitions about Imperial preference, nor the
same enthusiasm for international arrangements
from which Russia was excluded.
For the present Mr. Macmillan sees, as the
only solution for the U.K., a partial European
free-trade area, under which the British would
apply the policy of tariff-free exchange with the
Continent to manufactures, while retaining the
present policy of Commonwealth reciprocity with
regard to foodstuffs and raw materials and exchange
commodities of intra-British-Commonwealth trade.
Nevertheless, the British Government is being
guided towards acceptance of the whole plan by
demonstrations of public opinion which show that
nearly all the London press and a large non-party
section of the Commons, representing more than
a quarter of the membership, plus a very large
slice of heavy financial city influence, to be in favor
of the proposed European developments.
Australia is, of course, vitally interested.
Despite the attempts of certain sections of the
Sydney press to argue that we are now firmly in
the American zone and that our future and our
dangers lie almost entirely in the Pacific and Indian
Oceans, the facts remain (1) that the export markets
on which we live and in which our international
credit-balances are earned are in the European
region; (2) that it is just as vital to Australia to
have the defence of its overseas markets secure as
it is to have that of its own territory assured; (3)
that the danger of war is centred not in the East,
or in Southern Asia, but in Russia (whether the
war begins in East or West, the war-trigger is
located in the Kremlin); (4) that no country in the
Pacific or in Asia can offer us anything which
would compensate for loss of our European
markets.
The whole matter is one which needs to become
live politics in Australia.
Mapping a Continent
THE job of mapping Australia began long before
it was discovered, and it is still going on. In a way
it is rather surprising that ours was the last continent
to be drawn, as it is by far the easiest.
The recipe is simple. Draw a rather flat oval
and place it long-side-down. Take two fairly large
bites out of the top and a great Australian one out
of the bottom. Squeeze both sides in decisively
towards the top and tentatively towards the bottom,
and there you are!
The early cartographers, of course, were at a
slight disadvantage in not knowing how simple
their task really was, but this disability was
counterbalanced in some measure by the free rein
it allowed them to give their imagination. As a
result of this some of the earliest maps of Australia,
though. less accurate, are far more picturesque
than those of today.
After the Dutch navigators and Dampier, Cook
and Flinders had done their work the general
outline of our continent became too well-known
for map-makers any longer to take liberties with
it by inserting gulfs and bays where they thought
they looked best instead of where experience had
shown them to be. From then on cartographers
had to turn their minds and imaginations to
filling-up the wide-open spaces inside the intractable
coastline. Here again their style was cramped by
Nature and by explorers who insisted on putting
fact before fancy.
The Australian interior is not kind to romantic-
minded cartographers. It contains too many lakes
that lack water, rivers that begin dubiously and
end nowhere, and sandhills that have nothing
beyond them save other sandhills. Even some of
our greatest explorers have not been entirely
immune from tricks of the imagination. Sturt
expected the Murray to flow into Central Australia
if not to the Gulf of Carpentaria; Mitchell fully
believed the Barcoo to be the headwaters of the
Victoria River, a thousand miles to the west.
Gradually the field for fantasy was reduced in
area as more and more of the map was filled-in.
When political boundaries came to be drawn
simplicity was again the keynote. With minor
exceptions, the fences dividing State paddocks run
straight, in marked contrast to the wiggly lines
common in other continents. This doesn’t make
for picturesqueness, but it does help to ensure that
every Australian schoolboy can draw a recognis-
able map of his own country.
The work of the modern cartographer, however,
doesn’t end with drawing an outline and putting in
the rivers, mountains, lakes and towns. That’s
merely where it begins. The real job is to make
maps which will convey pictorially information
gathered by others and covering a wide range of
subjects. The delineation of geographical features,
once almost the sole purpose of a map, is now
subordinated to the effect of the geographical
features on human society. This is really an exten-
sion of the cartographer’s original function. Just as
he once worked on the raw material supplied by
navigators and explorers, he now uses the data
provided by meteorologists, geologists, demo-
graphers, soil experts and other specialists.
Probably the most ambitious project in map-
making ever attempted in Australia was begun
about six years agb by the Department of National
Development. The aim was to compile an “Atlas
of Australian Resources” which would correlate in
a series of maps all the information that could be
gathered over a wide and varied field of investiga-
tion so as to give “an authentic and aesthetically
pleasing picture of the natural, economic and
social life of the Commonwealth and its develop-
mental potentialities.”
To supervise the work Dr. Konrad Frenzel, a
cartographer and geographer of world standing,
was appointed editor in 1950. Dr. Frenzel had
had wide experience in this field. His “Andrees
Handatlas” had won him a Grand Prix and a Gold
Medal at the Paris International Exhibition in
1937, and he had also edited “The Picture of the
Earth” (1930), and Velhagen and Klasing’s “Great
People’s Atlas.” The actual drawing of the maps
has been done, by the mapping staff of the Depart-
ment of National Development and of various
divisions of the Department of the Interior, the
C.5.1.R.0., with the co-operation of State Govern-
ment departments, universities and the staffs of
various scientific and technical institutions. The
maps are being printed by offset process, using
from eight to 13 colors on each map. Commercial
printing-houses in Melbourne, Sydney and Hobart
have printed the maps so far published, and Angus
and Robertson are handling the distribution.
When complete the Atlas will comprise at
least 50 maps, each one accompanied by a com-
mentary. Twenty have already been completed.
First of,the series depicts the physical features of
the continent. The relief is based on contour-
lines, on mosaics of air-photographs (R.A.A.F.
co-operation) and on the personal knowledge of
geologists familiar with the remote and unsurveyed
areas. It is a beautiful piece of work. The Great
Dividing Range gives the impression of having
been drawn in the late afternoon, with the sinking
sun lighting-up the western slopes. The rivers are
not merely lines drawn on a map; they flow
naturally along the channels they have dug for
•themselves over the centuries.
Another picturesque sheet, calculated to delight
the heart of any cartographer, is the map illustrat-
ing the vegetation regions of the Commonwealth.
This one must have used the whole 13 colors; it
distinguishes 35 types of vegetation (or lack of it;
there are three types of desert shown). Akin to
it are the maps showing agricultural production,
with color gradations to indicate the intensity of
cultivation in the various areas. Naturally on this
map the vast majority of the continent just has to
be ignored, but this is compensated for by the
sheet showing the distribution of sheep and cattle;
by the climatological maps, the ones showing
temperatures and rainfall; the drainage-systems of
the continent; the mineral resources (70 minerals
shown by symbols, with indications of their relative
importance, size of the deposits and so on).
The point about all the maps in the Atlas is
that each one tells its own story. For example,
everyone knows in a general way that urban
populations in Australia are expanding at the
expense of rural districts. But the Atlas map
depicting increase and decrease of population
between the census dates in 1933 and 1947 shows
graphically where and to what extent the changes
occurred. Varying shades of green show where
the numbers have fallen; yellow and orange tints
denote increases. The greens are widespread; the
yellows concentrated. Small blue blobs show
country towns which have lost ground; red ones
those which have grown. Huge red balloons which
look as if they’ll burst at any moment cover the
capital cities.
The 20 maps so far produced bring the “Atlas
of Australian Resources” close to the halfway mark.
If the same high standard is maintained for the
rest of the series the project will have been well
worth while. And at 10s. 6d. a sheet the maps are
well worth anyone’s buying.


NED KELLY IN QUEENSLAND


PLAIN ENGLISH
Rift in the Red Lute
Whatever has happened in Russia as the
result of its new fa?ade of liberalism,
designed to placate and delude the West
and ensnare Marshal Tito, the Kremlin
can scarcely be pleased with the results.
To catch Tito it was necessary to
abolish the Cominform and rehabilitate
his old supporters in the satellite
countries of Eastern Europe. But the
satellites seem to have interpreted the
office to do this all too freely and the
Kremlin to have underestimated the
effects of the loosening of the control of
countries like. Hungary, through the
dismissal of the cruel Rakosi, and on
Poland, which was living nearer to the
verge of revolution against Communism
than was known.
The Poznan riots revealed all sorts of
unpleasant facts, from the Soviet Union
point of view—that it was Russian
soldiers in Polish uniforms who quelled
the riots bfecause Polish soldiers could not
be trusted ; that the Polish courts could
not be relied upon, either, to impose the
usual crushing sentences in secret and
publicise the usual inventions about
foreign spy-plots; that the Polish people
were so far gone in rebellion that they
were not even prepared to accept the mild
sentences imposed on the few rioters who
were brought to book before a curiously
sympathetic judiciary —there were riots
anew in one adjacent country town
following the trials.
The riots seem to have been sympto-
matic of something deeper and more thor-
oughly organised than mere local
discontent. The Russians have built up
a large army in Poland apparently
confident that control of it by Marshal
Rokossovsky, one of the great Stalinist
Red Army heroes of World War 11, and
a gaggle of other Red Army commanders
masquerading, in most cases, under Polish
names would assure stability whatever
happened.
They have found their mistake, and if
the more reliable reports from Warsaw
can be even half-trusted, Russian
colonialism is now being exhibited in all
its nakedness in a Poland which is living
up to its ancient traditions of resistance
to tyranny.
It seems that Poland has taken the
repudiation of Stalinism with a very literal
vengeance. It has brought back to the
general-secretaryship of the Polish Com-
munist Party the former holder of the
office, Gomulka, a “Titoist,” ruthlessly
ousted and imprisoned in 1948. It has
refused to allow Khrushchev and his three
senior lieutenants in the Communist
party of the Soviet Union —Molotov,
M i k o y a n and Kaganovich who
hurried to Poland to appear in the Polish
party Communist meeting and to
domineer over the party.
They were, it seems, sent home with
fleas in their ears. And sections of the
Red Army projected across the border
from East Germany near Stettin were
fired on, while Gomulka called for
“respect for Poland’s sovereignty,”
announced preparations for general elec-
tions in December and stated that “we
shall defend ourselves with all our means
so that we may not be pushed off the
road of democratisation.”
Moscow Radio has tried to cover-up
the awkward facts, so damaging to
Kremlin prestige and security.
The position is doubly dangerous to
Russia because of the risk that Poland
might not be held for Communism, even
the Polish Gomulka brand, if once
Russian strength is removed.
The whole incident to which events
have been working-up, and of which there
seem to have been visible effects in other
satellite countries, is serious for the
U.S.S.R., since the urge to freedom is a
disease apt to spread like wildfire in
Eastern Europe. It might also be serious
for the peace of Europe if Moscow
decides on repressive measures which
excite the sympathy of the free world.
Future in the Desert
“Stromlo” : When R. G. Casey, as
Minister in charge of C.5.1.R.0., opened
the Unesco symposium on arid areas, held
in Canberra last week and this week,
he remarked that the term *“desert” was
not politically acceptable in Australia, but
that nevertheless we had a great deal of
desert in this country. He added that we
had been so preoccupied to date with the
productive areas that we hadn’t yet
studied seriously our arid zones, men-
tioned the hope that within a reasonable
time we would be able to encourage rain-
fall economically from “reluctant clouds,”
and praised the work of the scientists try-
ing to deter evaporation of standing water
in hot areas. All this he linked with the
etforts of scientists to raise the living-
standards of all Australians, and he com-
pared the expenditure of £35 million on
C.5.1.R.0. during the last 30 years with
the estimated minimum dividends to Aus-
tralians each year of about £lOO million.
This was a prelude to discussions on a
variety of papers from the representatives
of many nations who have been attending
the symposium, most of which will have
a direct bearing on the coming attack by
Australia on the problems of its own
marginal and arid lands. The use of
nuclear power and of other methods of
desalting large quantities of water, the
economic development of rainmaking on
a major scale, the provision of amenities
which will make human and animal life
more bearable in dry and hot places are
all subjects to which increasing attention
must be paid as part of the current and
future phases of national development.
The director of UneSco’s division of
scientific research, J. Swarbrick, paid a
deserved tribute to C.5.1.R.0., and
especially to its land-research and regional-
survey section, for the work done on these
and related problems in Australia and for
results made available to other nations
around the globe. He reminded the
gathering of a fact which few Australians
themselves realise that research-
expenditure per head in this country is
higher than in any other country in the
world, and that the achievements are of
the highest quality. In all arid-area
research it was essential to secure the
interest and co-operation of the people, to
close the gap between available knowledge
and its application. In Australia there
was general realisation of what research
could do, and might be able to achieve in
future.
International Incident
“Collins Street”: Attractive Olympic
decorations have been hoisted in city
streets, signalling not the usual anguished
cry from the Artistic Community in Mel-
bourne but a spate of International
Incidents.
The Olympic authorities have highly
developed sensibilities since their original
naming of streets at the Olympic Village
at Heidelberg as Buna, Tobruk, Kokoda
and the like produced protests that the
sensitive Germans and Japanese might
not like to live in streets with such associ-
ations. They rechristened them.
As the Games get closer, it is clear Dip-
lomatic Tension is Mounting. Four
members of Nationalist China’s Olympic
team booked-in at a Bourke-street hotel,
and the newspapers, in a Sensational Dis-
closure, discovered that a Russian
Olympic official and his interpreter were
on the next floor. The hurry to put a
larger part of Melbourne between them
was due partly to the fact that Gun Sun
Hoh, one of the Chinese Nationalists, is
the fellow who withdrew Chiang’s boys
from the Helsinki Games because Red
China was allowed in.
The Prime Minister himself was next
on the job with a hint to Garnet Carroll,
owner of the Princess Theatre, where the
Chinese Opera Co. had been booked to
appear during the Games, that this might
provoke an International Incident; and
the Doc., never out of the picture where
International Incidents are possible, and
free for a moment or two from dictating
telegrams to parties in civil-court suits,
chipped in.
The P.M. thought it was undesirable
for the company to be in Melbourne
“when there were large numbers of
people from many parts of the world in
Australia, some of whom have strong
views on these controversial issues.”
This must be the first occasion in its
2000 years of history that the Chinese
(Peking, properly) Opera Co. had been
raised to the status of a Controversial
Issue. Their show is a classical combina-
tion of theatre, acrobatics, music and
mime. No doubt it amused the distin-
guished traveller, Marco Polo, and, when
the Chinese have assimilated the current
fellow-travellers, the show will still go on.
The Comrades were smartly on the job,
and Melbourne artists and musicians
received circulars from the Australasian
Book Society, Elizabeth-street, asking
their support in a protest to the Prime
Minister against his International Insult.
It couldn’t have happened, of course, in
London or New York ; even McCarthy
would pass the Peking performers, and it
emphasises our provincial outlook.
Surely it should be sufficient to let our
distinguished visitors know we expect
them all to behave as they are expected
to do at home, not to boo in the streets,
and if they pinch any hats not to get
caught and cause an International
Incident.
Calculated Folly
For sheer calculated sabotage of Vic-
torian State finances, last week’s three-
hour stoppage of trains, trams and buses
by transport unions would be hard to
lick. W. J. Donald, State president of the
Australian Railways’ Union, made it clear
what the unions have in view:
This stoppage is only the first step in
the campaign to prevent the abandonment
of cost-of-living adjustments.
Strikes add considerably to the deficits
of the railways and tramways, and the
cost can never be recovered, so that it
is clear from Donald’s menacing tone
that what the union juntas contemplate
is a series of strikes over a period to make
the consequent losses as costly as the
re-establishment of the c.-0.-l. adjust-
ments.
When direct-action was first mooted,
after the Government’s decision to stop
the automatic c.-0.-l. rises as an earnest
of its efforts to halt inflation, Transport
Minister Arthur Warner warned the
A.R.U. that economies might have to be
effected in the railways and cited a small
suburban service to Coburg, which,
Warner pointed ouf, could be eliminated
on Sunday nights. This was a piffling hint.
The scope for savings in the railways is
immense.
The strike is especially provocative
from the railway industry, which is
expected to run to a £s£-million deficit
this year (with the exclusion of automatic
c.-0.-l. •rises), taking almost all the extra
£6} million the State will receive from
the Commonwealth. Last year, when
fares were increased heavily, the railways
lost £4i million. A complete over-
haul of the petulant monster appears
warranted, and anyone given the task
might first of all read “A Bankrupt Rail-
way Service” in ex-Premier E. J. Hogan’s
book, What’s Wrong With Australia?
Speed was essential in the implementing
of last week’s legislation because new
c. 0.1. adjustments were expected daily,
but the Government raced it
through its final stages with theatrical
haste in the early hours of Wednesday
morning, and met the Governor
a few hours later as an Executive
Council to have the Act proclaimed half-
an-hour before the strike began. What
this achieved is not clear; the public
already was aware of the stupidity of the
strike.
There were murmurs of protest from
sections of unions when the folly and
futility of the strike became apparent to
them—they had been given only a day’s
notice by the union bosses —but they
were soon silenced, and disruption was
duly clamped-down calmly on the city’s
traffic.
A Mad System
The changes in the Commonwealth
Ministry, consequent on the departure of
Sir Eric Harrison to London and of
Senator Spicer to the Arbitration Court
Bench, do not add much to the strength
of the Government.
The Ministry is reduced in number by
one. The portfolios are moved about to
balance State and Senate representation.
Some of the moves are not to the good,
but expediency must always be served in
Ministerial reconstruction.
There must be so many Ministers, so
that each State has its share. There must
be so many Ministers from the Senate and
so many from the House of Representa-
tives. There must be so many from the
Liberal party and so many from the
Country party and so many from each
interest apportioned to senior Cabinet.
Where rights of representation stand in
the way of the choice of the right men or
the efficient men, then efficiency can go
and hang itself.
For some Ministries there is no justifi-
cation at all. One man could take care
of the whole defence outside produc-
tion, and in the changing conditions of
today the methods of Canada, the United
States and other countries would work
very well, in view of the need for co-
ordination. But this would never do from
a political viewpoint.
Senator Henty, of Tasmania, is the
newest recruit to the Ministry. He is
exceedingly able, experienced in com-
merce and will make a good Minister for
Customs and Excise, if ability is needed
to run that department now that it has
become a sort of house-dog to the Depart-
ment of Trade and Commerce.
The portfolio goes to him not so
much because of his peculiar suitability
for the job but because he is a Senator
and a Tasmanian. And Senator O’Sulli-
van, who gets the Attorney-Generalship,
as before, plus the Navy, is in the same
box—Queensland must have a Ministerial
Senator —even though there are many
more able lawyers in Parliament, includ-
ing one front-rank Victorian Q.C., who
would much better fill the Attorney-
General’s office.
It may be Party and Parish Pump
politics which make these things happen,
but any commercial concern which chose
its management in the same way would
have the shareholders round its ears like
hornets.
The Atom in the Home
When the Queen threw a switch last week
at Calder Hall in Cumberland, England,
and sent electricity generated by nuclear-
power coursing into a national grid for
the first time in any country, the effect
was not spectacular. Nothing was blown-
up ; there was no deafening noise, no
blinding flash ; no giant mushroom cloud
rolled up into the stratosphere to loom
ominously over the scene.
People who switched on lights, radia-
tors and other electrical appliances saw
nothing different from that which had
been serving them day in and day out for
years. The meals cooked that evening
tasted no different from those of the day
before. Yet they should have, for surely
no person with a glimmer of imagination
could fail to share the Queen’s feeling
of taking part in the making of history!
The immediate output of Calder Hall
is small —about 10,000 kilowatts, or the
equivalent of a package-plant power-
station —but , that is only a beginning.
Within six months the figure is expected
to reach 100,000 kilowatts, and by the
time a sister-station begins producing in
1958 the present one will be feeding
200,000 kilowatts into the national grid.
The British programme doesn’t stop
there ; the plan provides for an output of
li-2-million kilowatts by 1965. Beyond
that the authorities don’t commit them-
selves too firmly, but they envisage the
possibility of nuclear-power supplying 10-
to 15-million kilowatts by 1975, saving
the equivalent of 40-million tons of coal'
a year.
Although the United Kingdom has
won the race for the first commercial
harnessing of atomic-energy for domestic
use, it can’t claim any monopoly of
interest in the subject. At the United
Nations Conference on the Peaceful Uses
of Atomic Energy, held at Geneva in
August, 1955, representatives of 73
countries attended.
It was generally recognised that the
fossil-fuel resources of the world were
fast being depleted, and many papers were
devoted to estimates of world needs and
world supplies in the matter of fuel and
power over the next few decades. Britain
was cited as one country for which an
alternative source of power was becoming
a vital necessity. It was from the United
Kingdom Government’s early recognition
of this that the Calder Hall project
sprang.
Three Australian papers were pre-
sented: C. E. Eddy wrote on radio-
isotopes ; P. M. J. Gray on the treatment
of uranium ores; the Department of
National Development supplied a survey
of Australia’s power-needs and -plans for
the next 50 years.
With something almost approaching
atomic speed the United Nations publi-
cations section has already produced in
book-form The Proceedings of the Inter-
national Conference on the Peaceful
Uses l of Atomic Energy. The work runs
into sixteen volumes averaging about 550
pages each. Altogether, one would say.
a complete library on the possibilities of
bringing the atom home to dinner.
Hit by Spud and Onion
The “C”-series cost-of-living index
becomes more farcical every time it is
operated, and, with the issue of the
September estimate, it reaches the height
of absurdity. Mr. Carver, the Acting
Commonwealth Statistician, has, in fact,
presented the country with two choices.
It can have an index with potatoes and
onions thrown in at 11s. the rise, or it
can have one without murphies and
tear-fruit at 6s.
This, of course, has put severe tempta-
tion in the way of Mr. Cahill. When he
disturbed the frozen rate by introducing
quarterly adjustments for employees
working under State awards and for the
State, after stability had been decreed by
the Federal Arbitration Court, the cost-
of-living had moved up only 10s. on the
basis of the Harvester-award method ot
calculation in just on two years. So the
wage went up by an equal amount to
£l2 13s.
Within another nine months the cost-
of-living index had responded so sensi-
tively to Mr. Cahill’s action that it had
climbed as much in nine months as it
had in two years previously.
For one fleeting moment of optimism
(Continued on next page)


Mr. Cahill seems to have had some hope
that he might be able to induce the
Industrial Commission to decree the rise
without spuds-and-onions, since the 11s.
figure, apart from the use that might be
made of it in award applications for
general rises, has frightening implica-
tions. It seemed to mean a basic addi-
tion of £3,300,000 cold to the State
Government wage-bill at a time when it
is carrying on only by gobbling-up its
cash-balances at a rate which alarms
the Auditor-General. The Government’s
deficiency-financing was the largest factor
in a fall of £9,500,000 in the cash-balances
last year, the Treasury’s cash position
resting “almost entirely in the Special
Deposits Account, composed of trust
moneys, departmental and other working-
accounts and funds held for particular
expenditure objectives.” The contents of
these accounts have been applied to the
“least worthy” objective of deficit-
financing—already “to the limit of
prudence,” in the Auditor-General’s view.
However, there was no loophole of
escape for Mr. Cahill. Mr. Kenny,
secretary of the N.S.W. Labor Council,
shouted in his ear, via the radio, that
the workers were not going to be
“cheated” of their booty, and that if
there were any attempt to leave potatoes
and onions out of the reckoning at the
instance of the Government, the unions
might have to apply to the Industrial
Court to include them.
After Mr. Kenny had spoken, Mr.
Cahill said meekly that he could “not
imagine” the matter being a problem for
the Government, though it had “upset
our calculations a little” and would be
a “little embarrassing.” Though not so
embarrassing, of course, as it would have
been if he had incurred the wrath of
Mr. Kenny and his pressure-group.
In State capitals other than Sydney the
calculated cost-of-living rises vary from
3s. to 8s. —Perth is lowest at 3s. —but
N.S.W. is the only State in which index-
variations are automatically tacked on
to wages paid under State awards and
to State Government employees.
In Victoria the Government has
abandoned the variations, which will give
Victorian industry an increasing advan-
tage in competition with N. S. Wales
industry.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Chinese Uproar co. was billed to
sing
While Melbourne's m illi on s were
Olympicking.
But the plan has been frustrated,
For their programme’s been post-
dated
By the un-Celestial Dynasty of Ming!
• •
The A.C.T.U. seems determined to
make an ass of itself over the c.-0.-l.
argument. Having successfully wriggled
out of the consequences of its decision
to hold a one-day strike, it now proposes
to start the same business all over again
by suggesting a two-hour strike. What it
seems to need more than anything else is
a few minutes’ silence.
• •
Man does not live by spud alone.
• •
In the Federal Ministerial reshuffle the
numbers drop slightly, from 22 to 21.
Howard Beale and W. McMahon go into
the 12-man Cabinet in place of Eric
Harrison (London-bound) and Senator
Spicer (now Chief Judge of the Industrial
Court). Beale adds Defence Production
to his Supply portfolio; McMahon stays
put in Primary Industry. The new junior
Minister (outside the Cabinet) is Senator
N. H. D. Henty (Tasmania). He takes
charge of Customs and Excise, formerly
the responsibility of F. M. Osborne, who
becomes Minister for Air. Athol
Townley previously administered Air and
Civil Aviation ; he passes the latter depart-
ment over to Senator Paltridge to add to
Shipping and Transport and takes Immi-
gration off the shoulders of Deputy-
Liberal-leader Holt.
Other changes take atomic energy,
uranium, aluminium and other items from
the Supply portfolio and tack them on
Senator Spooner’s Department of
National Development. Spooner will be
Deputy-leader in the Senate; Senator
O’Sullivan continues as Leader and
Attorney-General and will also be Vice-
President of the Executive Council.
P.M.G. Davidson will also be Minister for
the Navy.
• •
One of the recommendations of the
royal commission which inquired into
the affairs of the University of Tasmania
last year was that “serious considera-
tion be given to the appointment of a
public-relations officer.”
• •
Although the party-strengths in the
Tasmanian Parliament were unaffected
by the election and a three-all result was
recorded in every division, two of Cos-
grove’s Ministers lost their seats.
Treasurer Madden, who has been M.H.A.
for Bass for 20 years and Treasurer and
Minister for Transport since 1948, was
one and C. H. Hand, Minister for
Police, Forests, Tourists and Immigration,
the other. Hand was elected M.H.A. for
Franklin in 1948 and promoted to
Cabinet in 1950. Both Ministers were
defeated by “Labor” men.
• •
Warsaw’s former Stalinist party-
executive and Gomulka’s new Titoist
executive seem to be Poles apart.
• •
The Commonwealth Statistician's un-
precedented action in issuing two sets of
C-series index-figures—one with and one
without potatoes and onions in the
regimen—does more than present
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill with the
problem of deciding whether to take his
cold dinner with or without veges. It
exposes the illogic of tying a wages-system
to an indicator which is so responsive to
seasonal fluctuations.
If the latest index were applied to the
basic wage the following increases would
result: Sydney, 11s.; Melbourne, Bs.;
Brisbane, 75.; Adelaide, 75.; Perth, 3s-.;
Hobart, 3s. ; six capitals, 9s. Excluding
potatoes and onions from the index would
make the rises: Sydney, 65.; Melbourne,
35.; Brisbane, 25.; Adelaide, 25.; Perth,
3s. (no significant change in the W.A.
price of potatoes); six capitals, 4s. In
Hobart the wage would have dropped 2s.
A significant feature is that the c.-0.-l.
rose most in New South Wales and Vic-
toria, the two most highly industrialised
States, in both of which quarterly adjust-
ments had been paid on State awards and
to Government employees under Federal
awards. Some of the burden of high
wage-costs in these two States would
naturally spill over into other States
through higher costs of manufactured
goods.
As to the latest increase, the Bolte
Government was able to legislate itself
out of the trap in the nick of time. The
Cahills are still pondering.
• •
Famous Test-cricketer Learie Constan-
tine and an Oxford-educated doctor of
philosophy, Dr. Eric Williams, who are
both negroes, were leading figures in the
victory of the People’s National Move-
ment in the Trinidad elections last month.
Dr. Williams was asked to form the new
Government, whose objectives include
self-government for Trinidad within the
projected British Caribbean Federation
"PLEASE TO REMEMBER THE EIGHTH OF NOVEMBER!"
and social and economic development
“without reference to race or religion.”
A writer in Sydney “Maritime Worker,”
eulogising Constantine, says “he could
rightly be called the West Indies Paul
Robeson.” But surely singing isn’t also
among Learie’s accomplishments!
• .•
Some canned meat imported recently
has been found not to be fully cooked,
and thus capable of introducing
economically disastrous diseases such
as foot-and-mouth, swine-fever and
Newcastle disease of poultry. New regu-
lations have been made to prevent such
imports, but they don’t apply to canned
fish or to meat-extracts. The quarantine
boys are still on tenterhooks about the
sausages and salami which migrants are
trying to bring into the country. Plans
are ready for dealing with any suspicious
outbreaks of animal diseases.
• •
Chalk, Liberal M.L.A. for Lockyer in
the Queensland Parliament, has come out
with an astounding suggestion for
reducing railway-deficits. He’s advocating
an economy-drive!
• •
Asked whether he proposed to join the
Victorian and N. S. Wales Governments
in their challenge to uniform-taxation,
S.A. Premier Playford told the questioner
he did not. He added that a successful
appeal would not of itself solve the
taxation problem. There would be
nothing to prevent the Commonwealth
from continuing to levy income-tax at
the present rate. If the appeal succeeded
it would be necessary for the Common-
wealth and the States to work out a new
taxation-agreement; otherwise taxation
would be boosted to an unwarranted
degree. A possible solution would be
for the Commonwealth to retire from
the taxation field to the extent of 35
per cent.
• •
“Stromlo”: Offering a partial reason,
at least, for the poor quality of Australia’s
airport-terminal buildings, compared with
those abroad, Air Minister Townley said
at the opening of Tamworth’s new air-
port that this country had more than 600
aerodromes and 100,000 miles of air-
routes. A network of modern radio,
navigation and air-safety aids covered
square miles, an area of flying-
aids greater than that covered by the U.S.
network. Sufficient building-materials
had been used for drome-runways for the
building of 1600 miles of first-class high-
way (Hume Highway critics please
note), and on those runways there were
enough lights to illuminate 100 miles of
roads.
• •
The R.A.N.’s new Daring-class ship,
H.M.A.S. Vampire, will be launched by
Lady Slim at Cockatoo Island dockyard
on Saturday morning October 27. Vam-
pire, an all-welded vessel of 2610 tons
displacement, armed with six 4.5 in. guns,
six 40-millimetre anti-aircraft guns and
ten 21 in. torpedo tubes, is a sister-ship to
Voyager and Vendetta. All three carry
names made famous by units of the Scrap
Iron Flotilla of World War 11.
In the afternoon of October 27 the
annual Trafalgar Day celebrations will be
held at Garden Island naval depot when
the Captain Cook Dock will be open to
the public. Submarine Telemachus will
demonstrate diving in the dock and there
will be a helicopter display and an
exhibition by naval divers, frogmen, fire-
fighters and radar-operators.
• •
In 1936 our town had four
telephonists operating the exchange for
300 subscribers. Today there are under
800 subscribers and 23 operators. There’s
also a P.M.G. deficit.
e •
Bolte will legislate this session for
married-women teachers to become per-
manent public servants, giving them
general promotion rights and super-
annuation. There are 2000 of them, and
it isn’t so long since women teachers
were forced to resign if they . married.
The Principle Of The Thing doesn’t stand
long against a fact like an increase of
18,000 new State schoolchildren each
year.
• •
Possibility of a split in the International
Labor Office over the issue of employer
representatives from Communist countries
is seen by L. C. Burne, president of the
Victorian Employers’ Federation, who
has represented Australian employers at
eight 1.L.0. conferences. He says that
the crisis on this issue has sharpened con-
siderably, and is likely to come to a head
when the governing body meets next
month in Geneva. 1.L.0. is meant to be
a tripartite organisation, with delegations
representing Government, employers and
workers in each country, and the workers’
and employers’ reps, are expected to be
completely free from Government domi-
nation. Employer groups from the Com-
munist countries, however, invariably take
instructions from and vote with their
Government delegations. In addition, the
Red “employer” delegates gain places on
1.L.0. technical committees in the guise
of employers, and vote on lines laid down
by their Governments. Burne believes
that only a compromise restricting Com-
munist countries’ delegations to represen-
tatives of Governments will save the
1.L.0. from a split and the formation of
a “free 1.L.0.”
• •
Australian exporters of wool and some
other products must be vitally concerned
at the current trade-talks between Japan
and Britain, which will be followed soon
by attempts to get down to tin-tacks in
the long-deferred talks between Japan
and Australia. Japan in the three years
from 1953 reduced its unfavorable trade-
balance with the sterling area, but in the
last agreement-period, from October,
1955, to September this year, Japanese
imports from the area, including Aus-
tralia, totalled £320 million sterling,
compared with exports of £260 million
sterling, a deficit of £6O million. Imports
from Australia increased; exports to
Australia decreased. An official state-
ment says that Japan desires satisfactory
expansion of trade with the sterling area,
but if the present situation continues
purchases from the area will become
“extremely difficult.” Tokyo hopes the
U.K. will co-operate in rectifying the
imbalance.
• •
Up the spiral stairway go
"Labor” leaders led by Joe,
Like Indian fakirs up their ropes,
To vanish at the top, one hopes.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
I DON’T know whether the proprietor
of our bus-run is being rude or
has met the wrong kind of people.
Two notices advertising a bus picnic
read: “Children with parents under
15yrs. free, but cannot occqupty a seat,”
and “Children under 15yrs. with parents
free, but cannot occqupty a seat.” —“Jon
Lyn.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Batty”: In the reminiscences of
cricketers I observe that cricket isn’t quite
—cricket.
♦J* +!♦
“Blufire”: Sign over the yard of a
Melbourne suburban used-car dealer:
“Get Off That Tram ; You’ll Never Own
It!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jock”: The Moderator of the
N.S.W. Presbyterian Assembly has
attended a ball! Aye, an’ he actually
had a dance or two. He is the Right Rev.
A. A. Dougan, who was present at the
ball of St. John’s Presbyterian Church,
Mayfield (N.S.W.), the first such func-
tion to be held in the district.
❖ ❖ ♦*
“Mugga Way”: Nearly 22,000 ammu-
nition-“souvenirs” and -“finds” were
recovered by the Army during the 12
months to the end of August, most of
them capable of inflicting death or injury.
A miniature arsenal was recovered from
a Queensland residence, the 296 items in-
cluding a 201 b. high-explosive fragmen-
tation aerial bomb. Two live and fused
Japanese shells were found in a South
Australian secondary school, and the Tas-
manian collection included 268 bullets,
.303-size,-buried at the foot of the Ceno-
taph in the Queen’s Domain. Notification
to the police of such materials in homes,
dumps and elsewhere could save lives and
suffering.
♦> ❖ ❖
“K.R.”: In the past week or so, the two
young gentlemen more-or-less holding the
centre of the stage in Sydney have been
shoot-’n’-loot Ned Kelly and rock-’n’-roll
Tpny Moynihan.
“Handout”: The new Matson liner
Mariposa, the first American liner on
the South Pacific passenger-run since the
onset of World War 11, will leave Sydney
on November 24 on the return-trip, carry-
ing cachets available free to philatelists
and souvenir-collectors throughout Aus-
tralia, having an embossed illustration of
the Mariposa, South Pacific decorations,
and a description of the route of the
Mariposa and her sister-ship, the Mon-
terey. Self-addressed cachet-covers will
be franked at Sydney with the Olympic
Games postmark and will be carried as
regular mail by the Mariposa to San
Francisco. There the covers will be back-
stamped by the San Francisco post-office
and returned by the liner to Sydney for
distribution to addressees. The covers
may be had from Mariposa Cachet, C/o
Hill and Knowlton Pty., Ltd., Box 4229,
G.P.0., Sydney.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Apemantus”: Does it breach Parlia-
mentary privilege to ask, with great
respect, the meaning of Mr. Speaker’s
admonition, “Order! Order! There is
too much audible conversation”? Do
they have dumb insolence there, too?
+Z+
“C.A.A.”: One of our top give-away
radio-shows ruled out a contestant from
£lOOO-worth of goods when he plumped
for Dick Whittington having been Lud
Mayor of London three times. The
answer was given as four. Next day the
contestant came to light with Chambers’s
Encyclopcedia, which stated the number
was three. The radio-show produced the
Encyclopcedia Britannica and Pears and
other sources to declare that the number
was four. This was supported by the
present Lud Mayor, who obliged with a
cable to that effect.
❖ * *>
“Fitz”: “Christine,” said the teacher to
my small granddaughter, “come out in
front and tell, the class what you would
like to be when you grow up.” Christine
left her desk and stood by the black-
board. “When I grow up,” she said, “I
would like to be a schoolteacher.”
“Well,” said the mistress, “that would be
wonderful. And now why do you want
to be a schoolteacher?” “Because,” said
Christine, “I could wear ear-rings and
high-heel shoes, and boss all the kids
about and go for rides in the headmaster’s
car.”
“Hippo Kondria”: In hospital, I am
trying to decide if the bloke nextdoor is
snoring in 3/4- or 4/4-time. Enter the
exceedingly kind night-Sister. She points
a million-kilowatt torch at the sleeper’s
face, scores a direct hit. The snorer
modulates to rhumba-time . . . but
sleeps on. Sister perseveres. She gives
tongue—“ All right?”—in a sympathetic
bellow. That does the trick. She departs.
❖ ♦> *
“Tidbinbilla”: The “Service Depart-
ment” (B. 26/9/’56) answers the ques-
tion “Is there any limit to the number
of different tunes that can be composed?”
with a terse “No.” While this answer is
true for all practical purposes, it is in-
teresting to work out an upper limit to
the number. Suppose that two tunes which
are identical over their first 10 notes are
to be counted as the same tune ; that the
pitch of all notes is to lie within two
“ Whoa , Clancy , whoa! Not while We're on duty!"
octaves—that is, 25 notes on the chro-
matic scale—and that the value of each
note is to be a 16th-note (semiquaver),
or any whole multiple of this up to a
whole note. Then the pitch and value of
any one note can be chosen in 25 times
16—that is, 400 different ways. Conse-
quently the number of ways of choosing
a tune of 10 notes is 400 raised to the 10th
power, which is about a hundred-million-
million-million-million. If a thousand-
million composers had each been compos-
ing one tune per second since the begin-
ning of geological time, they would have
“ Well, if you don't like my poetry, how about some articles giving the
low-down on my people back in the Old Country?”
barely exhausted the possibilities today.
Which makes one wonder why composers
borrow tunes from each other so often.
, „ .
♦>
“Whippet”: Coming down the Blue
Mountains from Katoomba on the “Fish”
after a weekend holiday, the woman
opposite me ordered tea and biscuits. She
balanced a tin tray on her lap and started
pouring from the teapot. There was a
sudden jerk of the train and the tea missed
the cup and soaked the biscuits. She
poured nearly a cupful of tea and
attempted to take a sip, but the train gave
another jerk and she got most of the tea
in her face and down her frock. While
she was mopping the mess she put the cup
in the saucer and the train jerked
onwards, spilling more of the tea into the
saucer. She then tried to empty this out
of the window, but I got most of it on
my light-grey trousers. She had to nurse
the tray for another hour, having paid
three-shillings for the experience.
*** * *
“Bo”: One of the major domestic
sports among young housewives
is guessing what the initials on small
plastic canisters stand for: for instance,
whether G represents gelatine or ginger,
or if C stands for cinnamon, carraway-
seeds or cloves. But the new large
canisters of transparent plastic have one
advantage—any housewife can now see
at a glance and without need to lift the
lid just how much sago she has in the
coffee-canister, or if there are enough
cake-fruits in the one marked Tapioca.
♦♦♦
~. _ . ,
“W.P.T”: On a trip through Lithgow
(N.S.W.) at night I noticed that the street
nameplates shone up distinctly when the
headlights caught them. They have been
painted with a special paint, an idea that
might well be followed by other civic
authorities.
* *
“Metralia”: Nearly swallowed the
newspaper when I bumped into a term
born of the U.S. racial squabbles—anti-
desegregation. Seems about as logical as
calling a beer-drinker an anti-pon-beer-
drinker. I suppose a diehard Southerner
who insisted that his offspring attend an
all-white algebra class would be a pro-
anti-de-segregationist.
v *** ***
“Sir Jay”: Mum on a day-visit to her
daughter in Melbourne had been given
an old wringer, as Daughter had just
bought a new washing-machine. With the
bulky, badly - wrapped parcel she
presented herself at the ticket-office and
asked for a second-class ticket to Geelong,
“Coming home tonight?” asked the ticket-
seller. “What?” said Mum. The question
was repeated. Mum gave the young man
a long searching look and, grabbing what
dignity the wringer allowed her, drew
herself up to her full five-feet-one-and-a-
half: “I don’t know you!” “And I don’t
know you either, Missus, but do you want
a single- or return-ticket?” Mum walked
away from the window flatter than if she
had been through her wringer.
“Apemantus”: A Westralian firm
makes a sales-condition on radiograms
at just under £80: “Only one to a
customer.”
* ❖ ❖
>
c Don f : «adtng Axel Munthes s
of San Michele lve always won-
deredat some
sa y. Mishelle, others M Jaily On
arrl val at Capri, I thought that at last
would know what the locals called it
Our guide observing that our party were
English-spoken, announced We wiU now
for a dnve U P to Samt Michael s.
%
“Ardoyne”: Melbourne’s wave of
vandalism, breaking on church halls,
kindergartens and even private homes,
has produced the usual complaints about
modern youth ; but Leigh Hunt, in his
autobiography, relates how His Royal
Highness Prince William, later crowned
William IV, in company with officers of
the 49th Regiment, demolished all the
furniture in a hotel in Barbados—in “a
fit °f ultrajoviality,” Hunt phrases it. His
Royal Highness paid-up when the
proprietress presented a bill tor £7OU -
that’s where he had it over Melbournes
vandals,
A
“Nunk”: I don’t know which was more
impressive, Douglas Stewart’s poised and
perfect little speech when they called for
tbe aut hor on the first night of “Ned
Kelly” or Kenneth Slessor’s complete
i mpas sivity as they played selections from
the recording of his and Brennan’s poems
on October 12 at the cocktail-party given
b the Recor( iing Society of Australia
over Morgan ’ s Bookshop, Sydney. “What
wou i(i Brennan have said,” Slessor
remarked, “if he’d known he’d be heard
on a gra mophone!” October 12 marks
first publication of Australian poetry on
recordings. Mr. Frolich, of the (non-
profit-making) society, which invites
further members at a guinea a year, tells
me they sold 75 of their Slessor-Brennan
records over the weekend, and expected
to clean-up their first, small, edition
within the week, and without publicity,
Among projected “Brolga” recordings
ar e: A. D. Hope and Dame Mary
Gilmore reading their own poetry, Kevin
Brennan and Ruth Cracknell reading
Judith Wright, an oboe trio by Margaret
Sutherland, Blake songs by Nigel
Butterley, and several other oboe works
with Tancibudek. One of their many
difficulties has been getting the powdei
that goes into the records—its sliort
because of import-restrictions.
TRIALS OF DORA CREEK
The people up at Dora Creek,
Restricted on the telephone
To sixty-six hours’ talk a week,
Have met, and they have made it
known
That they, the folk of Dora Creek,
Can hardly trust themselves to
speak.
But if they may not, night and day,
Ring-up a person and be heard
They’ll give their telephones away,
And that will be their final word.
The prospect thus looks rather
bleak
For Miss and Mrs. Dora Creek.
The Government, of course, will balk :
“What do they want, this angry
faction ?
Is their demand no more than talk,
Or do they want, not talk, but action ?”
It seems they’re facing an unique
Dilemma up at Dora Creek.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


CJHE sat with her small suitcase
balanced on her knees; on it a
large plate of salad. Out of a bag at
her side she took salt and pepper, applied
them liberally, brought out a knife and
fork and began to eat. Having finished
the course, she put plate and cutlery away
and took out a jar of fruit-salad-and-
cream, and with a spoon proceeded to
her sweet. This course completed, she
put the jar and spoon away, took out a
linen serviette and worked over face and
hands. All in a crowded Castlereagh-
street tram. —“Ladimac.”
* ❖
“Blax”: Talking about spruikers: I
paid two-shillings to see what a Show
spruiker described as the only genuine
mermaid that was captured by fishermen
on the coast of Mexico, with her baby
daughter —in fact, a crude plaster figure
of a woman with a fishlike tail, nursing
a similar but smaller figure in her arms.
On the way out I said to the spruiker,
“You should be pinched.” He shouted in
reply, so that all could hear: “That’s
what they all say, sir. Glad you liked it,”
and eager listeners flocked into the tent.
❖ *> ❖
“Clem”: One thing that hasn’t altered
in show-business since the days of “Ben
Hur” is the Hollywood publicity phrase-
book: “Drama aflame with love”;
“Passion, drama, intrigue!” “Don’t
reveal the awful climax to even your
closest friends”; “Only a woman could
understand”; “His kisses burnt”; “Hated
by the child who was her own,” etc.
Remember it, great man, when you write
the great Australian novel or the play to
end all plays.
“G.M.”: Although the Speck has one
of her sons, and possibly more, booked
for Olympic appearance, Tasmania has
been left off the map of Australia on
Olympic blazers. Consolation may be
found in Japanese-made Olympic
souvenir-handkerchiefs featuring the
complete Commonwealth map—Nippon,
of course, being island-conscious.
❖ ♦>
“M.G.”: A small car being manu-
factured in Germany has the seats placed
back-to-back. The engine is between
the seats, and passengers in the back will
be able to see where they’ve been. Is this
the answer to the problem of back-seat
drivers?
“Pevin”: Saturday morning the radio
announces: “You will not work in the
garden today . . . You won’t work in the
garden today.” Seems to me the Easy
English Lessons for New Australians are
being used to give a false picture of the
Australian domestic set-up. Maybe “You
will not play golf,” or “You will not spend
a couple of hours in the pub,” or “You
will not sit on your backside all after-
noon listening to the races,” but. . . “You
will not garden”— never, while a husband
is fit to drag himself on to his feet! Then
they got on to, “They will not take the
cockatoo to Melbourne.” They have at
last succeeded in arousing my curiosity.
* * *
“D.J.G.”: The Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s report on accident-insurance in
Australia records that last year payments
on rain-insurance throughout Australia
averaged 60 per cent, of premiums. For
Victoria, payments were only 42 per cent,
of premiums. Next time a Sydney visitor
maligns Melbourne’s weather, we have
our answer.
* ❖ ❖
“Chi-chi”: Water Board exhibit, at
Sydney’s Health Week exhibition an-
nounced that it had 3400 miles of sewer-
age in service, “enough to go from Sydney
to Singapore.” Pity, in that case, it doesn’t
reach St. Ives.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Burr Imul”: Results from the South-
street (Ballarat) Eisteddfod: Welsh Solo:
lan Campbell, 1; Michael Curran, 2; Joan
Aird 3.
il* *l* ♦>
“Vingter”: A young Melbourne tee-
totaller obliged three bibulous acquaint-
ances by driving them in one of their cars
to a drive-in theatre to see a picture they
didn’t want to miss. None of the three
saw the show, because each had brought
along a bottle of sherry. They neverthe-
less reckoned the evening such a success
that they decided on regular visits, their
teetotal driver attending as paid chauffeur.
They’ve never seen a picture yet, but are
not complaining ; nor is the driver, who
has built up a clientele from pub-patrons
partial to a few hours’ steady drinking
in the warmth and privacy of a closed
car, insulated against wives. The driver
sees pictures he missed five years ago
attending night lectures at -the University,
and says the monotony of seeing the same
“It's a jolly good thing she's got married again. Now you can gel
her right out of your mind.”
show six nights a week is offset by the
diverting behavior of his sozzled pas-
sengers.
❖ »> ♦>
“P.C.M.”: The Austrian girl whose
broken English was thought to be a
foreign language (B. 19/9/’56) reminds
me of the first bus-load of Balts to arrive
at the Kiewa hydroelectric works in Vic.,
in 1947. The bus was met at the gates by
a construction-foreman, a broad-speaking
Scot from Glasgow. After a few minutes’
“So you re the champ., huh?”
unsuccessful attempt at conversation the
Latvian interpreter went into the gate-
house and phoned the personnel-officer.
“Say, Boss,” he said, “this is hardly a
fair go—l told you I speak Russian, Lat-
vian and German; I’ve been on the
Yankee boats and I speak American per-
fectly ; and you send along a foreign guy
talking a lingo I never heard in my life
before! ”
*> »!♦
“Naussig”: I showed my wife about
the people asking £5OO-a-week for a
house for the Games. “What is this?” she
asked. “Is it indoor-games that they will
be having?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Old Crab”: A cobber and I found
C. B. Fry (“Becks,” B. 3/10/*56) a jolly
good scout. In the ’thirties, our teachers-
training-college boss had C.B.F. address
us all, and that afternoon “Poddy” and I
skipped an art-lesson and were at the
’Gabba when C.B. arrived. We accosted
him, thanked him for his lecture, and
mentioned inter alia that our pay-cheque
(£4 6s. Bd. a month) wasn’t due for two
days. C.B. escorted us into the grounds,
allowed us to introduce him to the other
hundred collegians unofficially represent-
ing the T.T.C. and treated us all to a
sparkling commentary on the game.
*Z* ♦> *z+
“Kerba”: I'm as law-abiding as the
next bloke, but there are times when I
agree with Dickens’s character on the
Law’s mentality, as, f’rinstance, when I
saw a girl in a motor-powered invalid-
chair with the regulation “L” fastened to
the front and back. Several yards ahead,
and obviously the “licensed driver” as
laid down by the regulations, a male in-
valid in a similar vehicle led the way
through the traffic. Doesn’t speak very
highly for drivers as a whole if the driver
of a wheelchair would get no considera-
tion without the sign of the tyro.
* ❖ ❖
“Burr Imul”: The first church has been
built at the uranium town of Radium
Hill (S.A.), presbytery attached, of cement
brick, single-handed, by its pastor, Father
Shiel. Architect, brickmaker and -layer,
he won’t have the comfort of the pres-
bytery for long—the building will become
a convent, and the hard-working priest
will go back to sleeping in the cabin of
the truck in which he carted his sand and
gravel for the foundations.
* * *
“Quo Vadis”: Joe took city-delivery of
the brand-spanking-new-model auto, and
on the way to the outback town a wildly-
bounding ’roo cleaned-up the windscreen.
Later, to curious questioners Joe ex-
plained the vacant space: “Invisible
glass. Air-conditioning equalises the
pressure!” So full is the world of new
wonders that they fell for it, meditating
still further on the mysteries and marvels
of science as Joe set the twin-wipers
swinging to “clear the glass”!
* * ❖
“Dash Dotty”: Campaign for the
abolition of capital punishment in Vic-
toria brings to mind convict Harris, cham-
pion Victorian hangman. He would
haunt the criminal court to note whether
the accused would make a good or a bad
“drop.” He went drunk to an Anglican
church and batted a schoolmaster over
the head with a waddy because the school-
master had given evidence that had
cleared a man charged with murder,
causing Harris to lose his £5 fee. He
then forced the minister from the pulpit
and insisted on the organist playing light
music to which he entertained the shocked
congregation with a step-dance. A
deputy-hangman had to be appointed
while Harris did six-months’ hard labor.
❖ ❖
“Collins St.”: When the two Bullen
trapeze-artists came to blows 40ft. up
during a public performance of the family
circus at Geelong, it took me back to
those fabulous (and ruinous) champagne-
parties Hugh D. Mclntosh used to give
almost nightly at Melbourne Tivoli. At
Geelong, Gregory (aged 24, 13st., 6ft.)
stopped Stafford (aged 30, 10st., sft. 9in.)
in a swift one-two that resulted the next
day in a £lO fine for assault, a visit to a
Melbourne specialist by Stafford for
stitches and an operation on a depressed
cheekbone, four days of glorious pub-
licity and the disclosure of some of the
family riches. Counting-up, there are,
between Ma and Dad Bullen and the
four sons, two Rolls, one of the Daimlers
the Queen used here, a Packard, two
Customlines, six caravans and a Cadillac
that Stafford claimed was the cause of
the row on the trapeze; it’s new, and,
he says, Gregory was bemused with
jealousy. Gregory said he had to hit
Stafford to stop him making a fool of
himself. The artists, who are bediamonded
and have lately had world trips, will not
be reconciled, Stafford claimed coldly,
until Gregory makes a peace-offering—
say, a mink coat for Stafford’s wife.
Quite a good mink can be picked up any-
where on Melbourne’s Block for £5OO.
Annie was quite right: there’s no business
like show business.
EROTIC ENLIGHTENMENT
“A tribe in Bechuanaland is agitating for an
immediate ceiling-price to be put on brides as
part of a general plan for modernising the
trade in women.”
Darkest Africa will soon
Have some blinding light let in
When white-man trading-methods are
implanted.
Nowadays the amorous coon
Always drops his cheerful grin
On getting wed, for price of bride is
slanted
Ever upwards by her Dad,
Who, though he be poorly pigged,
Will squeeze the ’groom, abandon-
ing compunction.
But the lover’ll get real mad
With the bridal market rigged,
When middlemen and brokers start
to function!
When the Bride Board’s set up — well,
Brides will get quite scarce and dear
(For that's what Boards are for).
Young lover may, by
Selecting tribal belle
Early, make his claim quite clear:
With small deposit put her on the
lay-by.
And what good news for the buck
When hire-purchase hits -the place !
By big financial slug he’ll not be
harried
Right away. With any luck
He’ll have easy terms to face,
And pay her off for years after he’s
married.
There’ll be bargain-basements, too,
With some “seconds” going cheap
(“Finding a fault in them’s almost
impossible”);
Discarded lines will do
For unfussy ones; they’ll “sweep
Out” at bedrock prices brides who’ve
proved unbossable.
But one gleam of hope there is
For the Bechuana boy
With modern merchandising in his
noddle:
If her chassis or her phiz
Fail to give him further joy
He can trade her in for later,
snappier model!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“Collins Street”: Douglas Bader isn’t
here on a holiday or a round of junket-
ing ; he has been employed by Shell
since 1933, now is manager of the com-
pany’s group-aircraft-operations depart-
ment —at least one of the largest
private-aircraft stables in the world,
chiefly used in oil search and operation—
and he is looking over the Shell outfit
throughout the nation.
The legless wonder of the R.A.F. gets
around; already he has seen much of
what he wanted to see in the West; he
had a tight programme in Victoria
confined almost exclusively to business
and cripples, and has spent a few days
in Tasmania. He will be in Brisbane late
this week, in Sydney next week and on
November 3 in New Zealand.
Still, he remembers. Eighteen months
ago Frank Cave, the personality who used
to run the Shell Show, met Mrs. Rosie
Orr in a ship and she told him she was
going to London, not too hopefully, to
get new legs. Within a few months she
was walking down Bond-street with Bader,
although neither had a leg to stand on.
Bader (it’s Bah-der) popped out to see
her in her Melbourne suburb. Nice
fellow.
• •
“Fitz” on some Mudgee (N.S.W.)
notables:
Father Maher, a lanky, tireless fellow and as
Irish as you like, is a Doctor of Philosophy and
takes a scholar’s interest in the life of Henry
Lawson. The small Catholic school which
Lawson once attended, and which he mentions
in his unfinished autobiography (now in the
Mitchell Library), still stands at Mudgee; and
Father Maher, of St. Mary’s, Mudgee, knows
all about this period of Henry’s boyhood. He
is also the author of the very readable booklet,
A Short History of the Parish of Mudgee Over
the Past Century, and an authority on the Peter
Rheinberger diaries. The as-yel-unpublished
diaries are a valuable record of the history of
Mudgee and district from 1870 to 1924.
Peter Rheinberger, son of Valentine Rhein-
berger, one of the German farmers who settled
near Mudgee in the 1850’s, had a sister, Elizabeth,
who married John Tierney, Lawson’s first school-
teacher and father of Bulletin short-story
writer “Brian James” ; who, of course, ha;
also made rich use of the Mudgee countryside,
particularly in the two collections of his stories,
Cookabundy Bridge and The Bunyip of Barney's
Elbow.
At Mudgee, recently. Father Maher showed
this writer the grassy siding at Eurunderee, the
site of “The Old Bush School,” where John
Tierney taught Lawson and other bush
youngsters. We also inspected Log Paddock,
scene of the last of the big gold-rushes and of
two or three Lawson stories; several mullock
mounds, covered with grass, can still be seen.
On the homeward run the priest stopped to
watch the shadows on Mount Buckaroo, near
where Lawson’s grandfather farmed, and
together we recited “Mount Buckaroo.” In the
evening, at the Oriental Hotel, Father Maher
tape-recorded other Lawson poems which were
sung at an impromptu concert put oh by the
Bushwhackers’ Band, from Sydney.
Dudley Mills, whose book The Stockwhip and
The Spur won a kindly notice from The
Bulletin not so long ago, was at the concert.
A sturdy, sun-tanned, jovial cove, wearing wide-
brimmed Hat, a cigar, and a rakish beard, Dudley
is the local bard. Singer, humorist, and balladist.
lie is the inheritor of an old bush tradition., and
drives a jeep. Had he lived a century earlier he
might well have composed some of the bush
songs collected by “Banjo” Paterson and now
treasured by folk-lore enthusiasts.
• •
Among old North Queensland acquain-
tances in Cairns, Les Such met and
sketched Sydney-born Charles Dickinson,
prime mover, 10 years ago, of the Tully
Hydroelectric Scheme which is expected
to reach completion this year. Biggest in
Queensland, it will supply light and power
from Mossman to Townsville and hinter-
TIMBER
land. In 1927 Dicko went North after
losing his Sydney business through illness,
and in Tully (just opened up) did cane-
cutting, hauling, and similar work. In
1932 he went into timber. He now owns
two mills, full logging-plants, and ships
500,000 super-feet of prime cabinet-
timbers south yearly. In 1945 he became
chairman of the Tully Shire Council; was
one of five executive members of the
Local Government Association for 12
years, president for two. He keeps a boat
at the mouth of the Hull River and is a
keen Barrier Reef fisherman. Has three
sons in the business and a charming
Sydney-born wife.
• •
Back in time for the Olympic Games,
at which he will be a timekeeper in the
track events, medical-knight Thomas
William Meagher, president of the Wes-
tralian division of the Olympic Federa-
tion. Also president of the W.A. branch
of the National Safety Council, he con-
siders that the U.K. and countries of
Western Europe are more safety-con-
scious than Australia. He was Lord
Mayor of Perth from 1939 to 1945.
• •
F. M. Read, appointed Deputy Direc-
tor of Agriculture in the Cabbage State,
was formerly Superintendent of Horticul-
ture and has been with the department
since 1925.
• •
An interview with Denis David
Condon, Information Officer for the
U.K. High Commissioner in N.S.W., left
this writer with enough information to
write a book ; most of this was about the
Burma campaign, in which Condon
•served first as a troop-commander in
Slim’s 14th Army, later on Festing’s staff,
in close touch with Stilwell’s Americans
and Chinese, and with the more-or*less
independent 36th Division in its drive
south. He was so interesting on the
general subject that writer was led to
IN FORMA LION
read Sir William Slim’s Defeat into
Victory —borrowed from Condon.
Now 45, Condon is the son of an
Indian Army officer, was educated at
Nelson’s old school, in Norfolk, and was
doing well as a freelance before War 11,
specialising in articles for the London
papers based on interviews with famous
folk.
In the Burma campaign he “collected
the usual quota of gongs,” and later took
part in the seaborne invasion of Rangoon,
which, he says, “was a bit of a farce.” By
that time the Japanese resistance had been
broken by the 14th Army coming down
from the north. Various Army jobs in
several countries followed, and his post-
war experience includes a stint as political
correspondent at the House of Commons,
which he describes as “fascinating,” and
a job in India (he speaks three Indian
languages), where, again, he saw some-
thing of history in the making. In India
during the partition troubles, he was 50yds.
from Gandhi when he was assassinated.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Dr. Howard A. Rusk,' of
the United States, authority on the re-
habilitation of the physically handicapped,
arrives on October 31 to spend two weeks
in this country, at the invitation of the
Department of Social Services. He will
visit Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne and
Canberra, and will see a number of
rehabilitation and spastic centres before
advising on the organisation and develop-
ment of the Commonwealth Rehabilita-
tion Service. Rusk is world president of
the International Society for the Welfare
of Cripples, consultant on rehabilitation
to U.N., Professor and chairman of the
Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation of the New York Univer-
sity College of Medicine, and an asso-
ciate-editor of the “New York Times.
In the latter position he has written a
great deal on the importance of rehabili-
tation work for the disabled, and stressed
the benefits of employing disabled
persons.
• •
“Ardoyne”: If Frank Lloyd Wright
isn’t the patron saint qf architects, per-
haps he should be: throughout his long
career his name has been synonymous
with innovation in the profession. At
the age of 87, he is designing his first sky-
scraper, to tower a mile high in Chicago.
Its 510 stories, it is reported, will accom-
modate 100,000 Illinois State employees.
With more than a quarter of Australia’s
employables “working for the Govern-
ment,” what tremendous scope he’d have
for his talents over here!
• •
By a peculiar coincidence, business is
bringing in nice time for the Olympic
Games in Melbourne an athletic fellow
called Arthur Maxwell, deputy-chairman
of the A.N.Z. Bank and a director of
Vickers. He arrives at Darwin on
October 29 with his wife (Austen
Chamberlain’s daughter), who is a tall
poppy in the Girl Guides, and he will
spend the sporting month in Melbourne
with visits inter-State and a fortnight
later in New Zealand. In Australia last
in 1954 (to institute the bank’s savings-
bank) and in 1951, he brings his riding-
clothes with him and spends most of his
free time riding around the tan-tracks
near Government House, a short canter
from the bank’s head-office in Collins-
street, or at golf. He is a handsome,
distinguished, sportin’ Englishman.
“You’d never believe that fellow was a
banker,” said a Melbourne millionaire.
“He looks too much like an accomplished
English actor cast in a part to be the
real thing, but he has a wonderful grasp
of the science of money.”
• •
“A.”: Dropped in to the C.5.1.R.0.
Wool Research Centre at Geelong (Vic.)
in the course of a tour of 14 countries,
L. F. Hartley, rugged South African chair-
man of the International Wool Secretariat
(London). He hopes to see some of the
bigger Queensland sheep-stations before
going on to Japan.
• •
“Allan B.’’ : Bulletin veteran Nathan
Spielvogel (whose passing was noted by “Fitz,”
B. 28/9/’56) was a child of history, born-at
Ballarat (Vic.) 82 years ago, where his parents
had joined in the rush for gold. After the
gold had given out at Smythesdale (a few miles
out of Ballarat) Nathan’s father opened a store
in the main street of the city, and Nathan
could recall how, in the ’seventies, swirling
(loodwaters swept through the shop, the family
taking refuge on the top shelves.
At four-years Nathan started at Dana-street
school, where he was later to return as head-
master from 1924 up to his retirement in 1939.
In that year he presided over the Ballarat Chess
Club, and he also figured in the local Mechanics’
Institute and other institutions. He pioneered
Jewry in Ballarat. He was the first and only
president of the Ballarat Historical Society,
being the logical choice for its first leader when
it was formed 23 years ago; he was to have
been installed for the 24th year the month
he died.
Ballarat’s history and Nathan Spielvogel
became synonymous terms. Three days every
week for close on 23 years—barring illness —
he was on deck at the Museum to answer all
sort of curly questions, some of them coming
from all parts of the world. Today, as you walk
up and down the gold city you can see plaques
and tablets dotted here and there informing all
and sundry that here was So-and-so’s pub;
there was the first foundry, or the first tailor;
here was where Gordon kept his horses; and
so on—all Nathan’s work. He personally
classified, captioned, arranged and indexed the
thousands of relics and old files to be seen at the
Museum.
I have gone through some of his notebooks,
which he read over the local radio-station, and
for which he says he received the handsome
amount of ss. for each talk. Generations of
pressmen are grateful to him for those notes —
clear and concise, all neatly typed.
And now the name of Nathan Spielvogel has
been given its own niche in the history of one
of Australia’s historically-rich cities, as Ballarat’s
distinguished first historian.
• •
Passed on in Perth at 72, Henry Doyle
Moseley, who joined the staff of the
Westralian Supreme Court in 1900, and
after serving as judge’s associate and
Usher of the Black Rod in the State
Parliament was magistrate at Carnarvon,
resident magistrate at Northam, and
police magistrate for Perth till his retire-
ment in 1948. Other posts included
Royal Commissioner for several inquiries,
State Director of the Y.M.C.A., and
chairman of the Toe H advisory team.
A consistent upholder of the dignity of
the law, he frowned sternly on anything
approaching “laughter in court.” A 51 Bn.
subaltern in War I, he was boss of Army
Intelligence in Westralia in the second
show.
Queensland grazier Ted Hill came to
Sydney in 1893, when he was 17, and
“having no cash, went straight to work
on Tyree station, Dandaloo, wages ten-
shillings a week, and we had! to work in
those days. But it was great experience.”
After some years there, he joined his
brother on a farm at Dubbo (N.S.W.),
later sold and bought a small place near
Nyngan, sold, and went to Queensland
CATTLE
in 1907. Bought Rosevale station,
Wyandra, and about 1937 bought Natal
Downs, a cattle property near Charters
Towers; another place, in the Peak
Downs district, was later added to the
collection as a fattening property for
cattle from Natal Downs.
• •
“J.D.W.”: From a field of 122, E. C.
Colbeck, hotel-consultant and director of
several hotel-companies in Cape Province,
South Africa, has been given the general-
managership of Maoriland’s new Tourist
Hotels Corporation. A Yorkshireman
who has passed 25 of his 43 years in the
industry, with experience in England,
Switzerland, Canada, the States and South
Africa, he’ll tackle the job early in the
new year.
• •
Sighted in Fremantle on his way to a
job in Adelaide, J. Wojtowicz, a smiling,
balding Pole who won his country’s
highest award for bravery during War 11.
After escaping from Poland in 1939, he
was a fighter-pilot in France, and flew
bombers during the Battle of Britain and
afterwards. Now grounded, he is a stock-
car racer with a mort of wins in Britain.
He has brought one of his cars, an Ameri-
can Auburn with a Cord engine.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 85, Sir Mark Sheldon, chairman
of N.S.W. Repatriation Board, Commonwealth
Bureau of Commerce and Industry councillor,
and managing-director of Dalton Brothers. Aus-
tralian Commissioner in U.S.A. from 1919 to
1922, he had also been president of both the
Federal and N.S.W. chambers of commerce, and
chairman of such concerns as Tooheys, Anthony
Horderns’, and the old Australian Bank of
Commerce.
In Sydney, at 58, Thomas Dixon Hughes,
honorary obstetrician and gynaecologist at The
Women’s Hospital, Old Digger, and famous in
the medical world for his work on diagnosis and
treatment of eclampsia (kidney fits) in pregnant
women.
In Melbourne, at 66, Wilberforce Stephen
Newton, K.B. Associated in many capacities over
the years with the Alfred Hospital, from 1935
till his death on the hospital’s board of
management. Foundation Fellow of the Royal
Australasian College of Physicians. Served
with the Royal Army Medical Corps in War I,
and as consultant physician on various war-
time medical bodies in War 11.
At Guildford (W.A.), at 56, Dr. B. O. Bladen,
former Deputy Grand Master of Masons, B.M.A.
councillor, life-member and examiner of the
St. John Ambulance Association. Keenly
interested in sport, he was hon. M.O. of the
W.A. Cricket Association and the W.A.
National Football League.
In Brisbane, at 73, J. D. O'Hagan, Old Digger,
Under-Secretary for Justice for 10 years, State
public servant for 48 years, and chairman of
the Prisoners’ Parole Board and principal
registrar of films for several years after his
retirement in 1949.
In Sydney, Alexander Gordon Champion,
chairman of directors of Optical Industries, Ltd.
Served in the R.A.N. in World War I, and was
Controller of Optical Munitions in N.S.W. in
War 11.
In Melbourne, at 70, E. J. McDonald, senior
partner in the engineering-firm of A. H.
McDonald and Co. Pty., Ltd., of Richmond
(Vic.). His firm was a pioneer in diesel-engineer-
ing manufacture in Australia. Well known for
work in education, for which last year he was
awarded M.B.E.
At Lemana (Tas.), Alweyne M. Graves,
foundation-member and vice-president of the
Deloraine Agricultural and Pastoral Society, and
noted exhibitor of show jumpers and other
horses. One of the family that has contributed
nine admirals to the British Navy (the present
Lord Graves is a cousin) he came to Tasmania
before War I, served with 3rd Divvy Sigs. in
the First A.1.F., returned to his pre-war occupa-
tion of apple-growing, and bought his grazing
property, Woodlands, in 1944.




ABORIGINALITIES
A U.S. Fulbright scholar stationed
at Whyalla (S.A.) sent home to
his uncle—a gas-station proprietor in
Texas—a parcel of assorted abo. souv-
enirs which students and teachers had
brought to the school from time to time.
Not to be outdone in generosity, Uncle
responded with three huge parcels of
tinned foodstuffs—for distribution among
the natives.—“Pubserv.”
* * * *
So sheep-dogs mustn’t be fed
mutton lest they acquire a taste for it on
the hoof (B. 26/9/’56). What else are
the hounds to eat, rabbits having been
decimated by myxo? On most sheep-
stations of my acquaintance the diet for
both humans and dogs is mutton all the
year round.
* * * *
“B. the B.”: The expression “Take
your hare when it is cased ... was used
by Hannah Glasse in her book, Art of
Cookery, published about 1748. It is
usually attributed to Mrs. Isabella Beeton
and misquoted as “First catch your hare
....” (B. 26/9/’56). The illustration I like
best in Mrs. Beeton’s book accompanies
recipe No. 2858—for roast wallaby. The
joey squats in a large dish, head well up,
ears pricked and the long legs pulled
forward. The instructions say the wallaby
should be “stuffed, sewn-up, and roasted
before a clear fire for about an hour and
a half. This will provide a meal for six
persons.” I also enjoy Mrs. Beeton’s lavish
use of materials to entertain her friends,
her thrift with her servants, and her posi-
tive meanness with food for dependants.
Her crayfish-soup for six persons calls for
12 crayfish, half a bottle of sherry, three
eggs and quantities of vegetables. Com-
pare that with her “useful soup for
benevolent purposes”—half a bullock’s-
head, any pot-liquor in the larder, vege-
tables (the outside pieces or green tops
do very well), half a pound of salt and
six gallons of water.
* * * *
“Nang Nang”: Don’t know why
“Myall’s” dingoes forfeited their tails
(B. 5/9/’56), but in Kimberley (Tas.)
some time back I came across a tabby-
cat and five half-grown kittens disport-
ing themselves in a barn. The cat and two
kits were normal, but Kit No. 3 was
minus a front paw, No. 4 was minus her
opposite front paw and an inch of limb,
and No. 5 had a hind stump that ended
well above the hock. They were all
born that way, the only clue being that
Tom had lost a paw in a trap. Heredity,
I should say—unless Jenny, like Jacob’s
cattle that produced speckled, spotted
and ringstraked young after gazing on
the variegated botany prepared for them
(Genesis 31), believed in ante-natal
influence.
**' * *
“Crow Eater”: Had to rack the brain
for a few moments when the A.B.C.
announcer told us that Mile-ang (accent
on first syllable) was again faring badly
through flood. Mi-fang was the pro-
nunciation when I lived in South Aus.;
but it may have been changed since.
W7£eproof, up on the edge of the Vic-
torian Mallee, familiar to me as Wyche-
proof, but usually shortened to Witchie,
was another name that caught me
unawares. We’ve been getting several
unusual place - name pronunciations
lately over the A.8.C.; when one hears
Winayleah for Winna/eah, and Bea/ceba
for Bea/iba it takes a while to recognise
them. That’s where places with simple
titles like Emu and Fish Creek have an
advantage.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Apart from the cuckoo’s
complete parasitism, there are many
examples, here and elsewhere, of nest-
stealing, none proof of the thief’s ulti-
mate parasitism, but all maybe indicat-
ing a step on the way the cuckoo has
gone. Hawks, with a few honorable
exceptions, are lazy fowl that like to
borrow an old nest whenever possible.
However, they usually make additions to
the discarded home, and are well able
to do the complete job if necessary. The
blue-faced-honeyeater is generally con-
sidered our champion nest-borrower, but
“You will meet a tall, dark, handsome man who has a wife and six kids”
our most likely candidate for eventual
complete parasitism is, I think, the large-
billed scrub-wren. Unlike the honey-
eater, this wren consistently uses a nest
very similar to its own, that* of a near-
relative, the yellow-throated scrub-wren.
Moreover, it frequently lays its eggs in
the nest while the rightful owner is in
residence.
:Je sjc :Jc sfc
“Tabba”: He tugged and wrestled
feverishly with the little twist of yarn that
was trapped under the leg of a table in
my hotel-room. Manoeuvring from side
to side, repeatedly changing his grip, he
showed no intention of going home with-
out that fluffy bit of bedding. When I
moved he scurried out of sight, but was
“ I've made a DREADFUL mistake. That customer who Wanted
prussic-acid — l've given him vitamin-B!"
back later to resume the battle. He gave
one big tug and shot away trailing the
prize. Somewhere, soon, a family of mice
will no doubt listen enthralled to their
old man’s proud story of how he wrestled
that bit of their house from under the leg
of an enormous table. And who will there
be to add that a good Samaritan moved
the table an inch or so?
* * * *
“Zake”: There is much to be said for
the retention of the aboriginal place-
names. Although quite a few of them
would prove to be moral blisters if inter-
preted too literally, for the most part they
trip euphoniously off the tongue. That
can’t be said for such examples of our
own bestowing as Dysentery Creek, Dead
Finish, Ag’s Beacon, Smellie’s Inlet, Tin-
pot, The Spotted Dog, Boozer’s Bend,
Myrtleville, Willie’s Mistake, Blogg’s
Flat, Hoosthis’s Hill and other nomen-
clatured elegancies.
* * * *
“Bass”: Would Australian orchards of
deciduous trees produce better if our
winters were more severe? Probably.
Deciduous trees, particularly apples, shed
their leaves and retreat behind a cover-
ing of bark as a protection against
extreme cold and wet; for a time, prob-
ably a few weeks, the trees may be in a
condition of suspended animation, akin
to the hibernation of some animals.
During that period branches and roots
practically cease to function ; and they
can be frozen without being damaged,
and this freezing seems to do something
to the hormones (or to the agents con-
trolling the hormones) which produces an
excessive vigor at bud-burst. When the
temperature doesn’t fall low enough that
vigor is diminished; but, more import-
ant, the suspension of vital functions
isn’t complete, and the roots continue to
absorb nourishment, with the result that
they require oxygen at a time when the
supply may be cut off because the ground
is waterlogged. Then the roots are
affected, some parts are killed, and this
probably is a cause of die-back. Plants
which have spent a few million years
accustoming themselves to the rigors of
a near-Arctic winter don’t always
appreciate a move to a more equable
climate.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: The jackeroos were
sitting by a coolibah-shaded waterhole,
waiting for their quartpots to boil. With
them were the boss’s sons and Cecil, a
city relative, all on school-holidays.
Cecil’s tone had varied from patronis-
ing, towards the outback generally, to
plaintive, concerning the heat and
infrequency of drinks, and the jackeroos
forbearance was wearing thin. Finally
the quiet, hard-bitten one said: ‘‘You
know, Cecil, when we’re really thirsty we
light a fire on the windy side and boil
the waterhole.”
* * * *
“’Ermit”: Common New Guinea
native practice in treating pain is to
make a series of cuts, deep enough to
draw blood, about long and |in.-to-
|in. apart, over the whole area. This has
its parallel among our older medical
methods —“cupping” involved ■ making
similar cuts. But whereas cupping-cuts
were made by a fearsome machine with
many little blades operated by a trigger
and springs, in N.G. they use a sliver
of bamboo-skin, or a piece of broken
glass, or a safety-razor-blade, according
to degree of sophistication. Cupping, of
course, went further, since suction was
then applied to the area (by means of a
jar in which a wisp of cottonwool soaked
in methylated-spirit had been burnt to
heat the air—on cooling it created the
suction), but the two methods have the
same idea behind them. The natives
use their method for a persistent
headache, a deep abscess, a sprained ankle
—anything where there’s pain, especially
if there is swelling in addition. Never
heard of their using leeches, though, in
spite of the abundance of these pests in
every damp patch of jungle.
* * * *
“Eddas”: Brown snakes are among the
best of our tree-climbers. I caught a six-
footer at the nest of a mistletoe-bird, but,
by the time I got my .410 and dropped
him, Joe had polished-off the bird and its
four eggs. A little-known practice
adopted by some of the tree-frequenting
poisonous snakes is to similate a dead
stick and drop from the tree among its
prey. I saw this demonstrated when some
ringnecked doves were ground-feeding
and what appeared to be a dead stick
dropped among them. For a moment
there was no movement, thefi the “stick-
quickly came to life and grabbed a dove.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: News to me that “Kangaroo
Charlie” Armstrong, husband of Dame
Nellie Melba, rode buckjumpers at
London’s Crystal Palace (B. 26/9/’56).
When he divorced Melba for desertion
and was granted custody of their son he
settled in Texas (U.S.A.), but lost nearly
everything in the great Galveston hurri-
cane of over 50 years ago. He then went
to Klamath County, Oregon, where he
ran a small farm. When Melba sang at
Portland Charlie took his son to see his
mother in the recital. From then on the
diva took the young man under her wing.
Armstrong sold his farm and vanished.
About six years ago an old recluse died
in Victoria, British Columbia. A Mrs.
Alice Applegate Peel, one of the few
people to whom Armstrong had confided
his life-story, then disclosed that this
recluse had been Melba’s husband ; she
gave the story to the San Francisco news-
papers. Melba’s biographer painted
Armstrong as her “impossible ’ husband
whom she had to divorce. Mrs. Peel's
disclosures showed that the boot was very
much on the other foot.
EJENAK THE PORCUPINE
Travelling, Ejenak the porcupine
pushed through ferns and purple-spotted
orchids and clambered over rotted
logs, intent on some design
known to himself. At once he curled,
when he saw me, into a bristling shock,
a mound of impregnable yellow and
black
spines thrust out at his dangerous world.
But 1 stood there until 1 became a part
of the bush, and his furtive beaklike
snout,
his five-clawed hands and feet came out,
and, still as a tree, l watched him start
travelling away with his whistling sound.
And then he stopped. And beside a log,
under the ferns, he clawed and dug
himself down into the soft dark ground.
Unless 1 had seen how the earth just
heaved
over the place where Ejenak slept,
so well the ferns and the leaf-mould kept
his secret, l would have been deceived.
For weeks Ejenak will breathe, l know,
under the ferns and the earth like that ;
and when he has slept off his body’s fat
and must waken, his hunger will tell him
so.
■n.s.w.
ROLAND ROBINSON.


13
The proper approach
to Bell's
mm
mm
m
mm
s ■;
si
:X-X:
is
X-XX
■
M
y
>Xv
\\v»
Sniff it .. • Inhale the mild yet full aroma
Sip it . • • How smooth it is, with no trace
of bite or harshness
Down it .. . Feel its warm, friendly glow
You simply cannot drown it!
BEIL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
BELCS
fccotck
TO
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES DISTILLED
& BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd ■Distillers , Perth, Scotland ■ Est. 1825
KfIAMEV MIAIfEC
my re I ihake*
mamev I
' mVNE ■ •
General Credits Ltd
offers investors
First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange. Cumu-
lative stock carrying 6|% compounded on yearly
rests with currencies of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus
available all branches of The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited, Members of Stock Exchanges
and Offices of the company.
7.
Short Term
per cent.
12 months - - - 5
9 „ - --4 J
6 „ --- 4
3„- - - H
Long Term
15 years
5 to 10 years
4 years
3 years
2 years
per cent.
7
- 6
. 6
- H
DIRECTORS: SIR JOHN NEWMAN
MORRIS, C.M.G. (Chairman), V. H.
STANLEY LOW (Managing), J. M. FORD,
E. W. COX, JOHN GLEN, ERIC
HUGHES, J. F. HUGHES. F. G. MEN-
ZIES, C.8.E., H. F. CLARICE.
Bankers for the issue :
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe for the debenture
stock mentioned herein.
Underwriters: J. B. WERE & SON
4983
TOINED a group of young and not-so-
** young Chinese who, on their evening
stroll, had stopped together on the corner
to admire and compare their accompany-
ing pets.
Chameleons, goldfish and canaries all
seemed to be much less interesting than
a pickle-jar filled with water in which
were poised two black, four-inch thread-
like worms. As we watched, one, with
graceful deliberation, formed a hitch, en-
circled its companion, tightened and then,
with a second move, grannied the knot.
They were there in an apparently in-
extricable knot with four equal ends until,
after some minutes, the owner rapped
sharply on the bottle with his signet-ring.
The knot was effortlessly untied and they
were separate.
A Hong Kong University youth who
was there told me in perfect English that
they were freshwater Nematoda gordius
and so-named because of the Gordian
knot of legend. He also assured me that,
in these exercises, sex did not rear its
ugly head. —“Sevenelms.”
* * * •
“Findy”: What kind of Edward VIII
stamp did “Sackville’s” friend (B.
17/10/’56) put on that letter of his?
There was no Australian issue with
Windsor’s likeness on it.
He * * *
“Saaedi”: Obviously the young gill-
birds had spilled out of their nest prema-
turely, but serious trouble only started
when some currawongs arrived. The
honeyeaters being peerless fighters, the
pied predators would normally have
passed on, but here they immediately
sensed the family’s difficulties. Estab-
lishing themselves in trees above the log
on which the gill-birds had gathered their
little brood, the currawongs made a series
of attacks, aimed apparently at breaking-
up the group. Presently one of the
frightened babes left the log and fluttered
feebly along the ground with the pack in
gleeful pursuit. Driven off momentarily,
the currawongs switched their attack to
both youngsters simultaneously and the
heat was really on. The gill-birds sized
up their desperate situation. Leaving Pa
to guard the babe on the log Ma flew with
viciously snapping beak towards the wan-
derer, now about 50ft. from its base.
Buffeting it with her,wings she hustled it
in sheep-dog fashion back to the log. The
sombre assassins drifted away in search
of easier game.
* # * *
“Bass”: Every summer dozens of
harmless snake-lizards are killed simply
because they haven’t any readily-visible
"Look, Dad—Ned Kelly!"
legs, or rudimentary legs, and nobody
examines them closely enough to see the
external ears that distinguish them from
snakes. But there’s another, possibly
easier way to tell the difference. A lizard
usually has a tail longer than its body—
that is, if the tail is the original one—
whereas a snake’s tail is only a small
fraction of its entire length. The tail
starts at the vent.
* * * *
“Agricola”: The Dairy Adviser was
addressing a meeting of farmers on herd-
recordiiig. “I suppose you know many
cows don’t pay,” he told them. “Too
right I do!” roared a voice. It belonged
to the local storekeeper.
* * * *
“Vandee”: Two wins in the Veteran
Stakes for Tasmania: Oldest bridge in
the Commonwealth, and still in use, is the
Richmond over Coal River. Built in 1823,
it’s 10 years older than N.S.W.’s Lennox
at Lapstone Hill. Oldest pub is the Bush
Inn at New Norfolk. Its beer-pumps have
been <min<* 125 years. English composer
Wallace sampled this pub’s beer (maybe
they used taps in his time), and whether
it was the brew or the view from the
window the inspiration came there for
“Scenes’ that Are Brightest” of
“Maritana.”
**. * *
“Kros”: Venus may in tact be Earth s
twin, not Mars (B. 3/10/ 56), but most
people, if it were possible to reach either
planet, would prefer to visit Mars. The
only exceptions, as suggested by “J.J.A.
(B. 10/10/’56), might be oilmen, and there
again there may be just as much good oil
on Mars as there seems likely to be on
Venus. Mars is very Earthlike—no seas
or lakes admittedly, but it has mountains,
vegetation (not known definitely but
reasonably certain), moderate winds,
equable midday-temperatures, rain (if
any) limited to slight showers, a day of
just over 24-hours, and an atmosphere
which, if not designed for humans, is
passably suitable for them. The only
thing that might worry some people is the
length of the year—6B7 terrestrial or 670
Martian days. Might be a bit long to wait
for your next holidays.
* * * *
“Kelms”: The butcher-bird is the
champion mimic of s.-w. W.A. and the
greatest menace to the amateur orni-
thologist. Among the songsters in the
tea-tree thicket and native shrubs border-
ing my swamp the most vociferous are the
reed-warblers, the willie-wagtails, magpies
and several species of wattlebirds, with a
variety of other birds that call rather than
sing. But when the songsters come out
into the open they keep silent, warbling
only when they’re in situations where they
can’t be readily seen. The reed-warblers
in particular are hard to spot although
they can be heard only a few yards away,
and I’ve often failed to locate a wattle-
bird until it ceased singing and flitted to
another tree. So when these songs come
from a cleared patch, where there’s not
enough cover to conceal a snake, the bir i-
watcher might begin to doubt his senses
if he didn’t catch the twinkle in the eye of
the butcher-bird sitting on the post. I've
heard him imitate the reed-warbler,
magpie, willie-wagtail and wattlebird
in quick succession, interspersing a few
notes of his own by way of flattering con-
trast. He has also brought me running
from the house to see the parrot —a rare
bird in these parts —and I strongly suspect
he’s often the “kookaburra” that spoils
my Sunday-morning sleep-in. I’m not
surprised at his ability. Once you hear
and appreciate the range and wealth of his
own natural repertoire you can realise
how easy mimicry must be to him. But
I can’t understand why he descends to it
—his own full-throated warble is the
richest, flutiest song in the bush.
* * * *
“Socks”: The young Swiss representa-
tive of a Zurich firm found it easy meat
to scale Ayers Rock, but more difficult
to describe his feelings at the mostly
mulga expanse unfolded below with
companionable monoliths: Conner and
Olga to east and west and the Musgroves
far to the south. I said, “Are you aware
that one could travel over a thousand
miles in most directions from here and
still be on Australian soil? What
countries would you traverse from Zurich,
taking a radius of, say, 1100 miles?”
“I’d tread the soil of every European
country and part of North Africa; the
perimeter would approximate: Gibraltar,
Tripoli, Crete, Istanbul, Kiev, Helsinki,
Oslo and well to the north of Scotland.”
“I don’t know what to say,” I said, “but
it’s beautifully warm and peaceful here.”
* * * *
“Archaen”: The bullroarer had a far
wider distribution than “An Chuidh”
suggests (B. 26/9/’56). It was used all
over southern Asia, around the Mediter-
ranean, in sundry European countries
and in North America; and it played a
prominent part in the mystery-ceremonies
of the pre-Homeric Greeks. As was the
case in New Guinea and Australia, it was
supposed to be the voice of some spirit-
being. In practised hands it can be
made to give out some truly weird
sounds. Anyone who has heard an
expert whirling a good one will under-
stand why our aboriginal women cowered
in fear when they heard its moans and
shrieks coming from where the men were
initiating the boys into manhood. In
every country where it was once used the
secret of the bullroarer became known
as culture advanced, and finally it
degenerated into a child’s toy.
A FOREST OF DEAD TREES
The land is plotted into fields
but one fenced paddock held as tame
contains a hundred ringbarked trees
that missed the noise of axe and flame.
A settler in the days long dead
went hunting cypress from his sheep
till at this paddock he grew tired
and branding them he fell asleep.
Now while that settler rots in earth
and all his barren sons buy cars
the herded trees lean near the fence
remembering that the earth is theirs.
They let their leaves grow in the ground
and they turn grey as any moon
but they hold branches bare as bone
beautiful towards the sun.
n.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.


Australian Paper
Manufacturers Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE: Aikman Street, South Melbourne, Victoria.
Mills at Melbourne, Broadford, Fairfield and Maryvale, Victoria;
Botany, N*S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W. A.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM
THE 1956 ANNUAL REPORT
(For the 12 months ended 30th June, 1956)
Sales
Production . . . . .
Profit . . .
Selling Prices . . . .
Construction . . . .
Progress .
Employees
Highest yet achieved at 210,771 tons, being
12% better than last year.
Papers and 80ard5—206,557 tons produced.
Woodpulp—An output of 76,900 tons.
£1,712,051 —slightly higher than last year.
Profit as a return on stockholders’ funds of
£20,987,295, was 8.2%, the same as last
year.
A small rise in prices was made on 31st
October, 1955, because not all increases in
costs could be absorbed.
The new No. 2 paper machine at Maryvale
was completed to schedule and has been on
continuous operation since mid-March. Good
progress with the erection of the board mill at
Petrie (Queensland), scheduled to begin pro-
duction in the third quarter of 1957. Other
major items of new plant brought into
operation.
Steady growth in demand for the Company’s
products continued. Increased business in
Queensland and South Australia led to the
Company establishing its own sales offices in
those States. Collaboration with customers in
developing new markets and active search for
export markets for certain products. More
progress with research and instrumentation.
Expanding forestry activities in the develop-
ment of both pine and eucalypt tree farms.
Good service by all. Training programmes
extended at all levels. Fewer accidents and
increased production per employee. Further
progress with work study and bonus schemes.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Wool and Shares
IX/ITH wool - prices now a
little hesitant there has
been also some hesitancy in the
sharemarket following a fair
recovery from the low point of
the present year.
The wool cheque for the first
three months of the present
selling-season was £4B million —
up £lO million (about 25 p.c.) on
the sale of slightly fewer
(522,419) bales than in the
corresponding period of 1955-56.
If average prices realised to
Sep(. 30 are maintained during
the j rest of the year, the total
clip should bring in about £4OO
million, against £334 million
actually received in 1955-56.
However, before the cheque for
the present season can be calcu-
lated, seven times as much wool
as has been disposed of during
the first quarter of the year must
be . sold in the final three
quarters.
The Suez flurry has steadied
somewhat, but the over a 11
statistical position of wool
appears to be very sound so far
as this season is concerned.
In the sharemarket there have
been strong advances in par-
ticular stocks, some of which
don’t enter into indexes. Mauri
Bros, and Thomson has risen
spectacularly following its bonus-
issue announcement, and
Kandos Cement, Masonite, Silk
and Textiles and Tancred Bros,
have been among others to move
up steeply. McPhersons, ex
rights, has also been in demand,
and Bank of N.S.W. has
improved following digestion of
its last new issue.
The rutile boom continues,
with Zircon Rutile leading the
way at £8 11s. for its ss. shares.
H.-p. in N.S.W.
AXIMUM hire - purchase
rates chargeable by N.S.W.
finance cos. after the passing of
new legislation will be 7 p.c.
(flat) on new motor-vehicles,
farm-machinery and industrial
equipment; 9 p.c. on second-
hand items of the foregoing
nature ; and 10 p.c. on all other
goods, including domestic
appliances and furnishings.
These rates are much the same
as those now charged by the
principal h.-p. cos., but it will
restrict them in passing-on the
new tax of 1 p.c. of the
difference between the cash
[ price and the deposit in h.-p.
1 transactions.
There has been only a slight
weakening in hire-purchase
stocks on ’Change over the past
six months, though it is true that
there has been no recovery in
this section of the market such
as there has been for most other
classifications.
Crescent Rutile, N.L.
jpROM the vague, scrappy and
A apparently hurriedly-
produced prospectus of Crescent
Rutile, N.L., it would appear
that the co. has* options over
areas at Kilcare (N.S.W.), Noosa-
ville (Q.) and Hat Head (N.S.W.)
estimated to contain 900 C tons,
30,000 tons and 10,000 tons of
rutile respectively. Further
areas and possible tonnages are
mentioned.
In respect of the areas relat-
ing to the quoted rutile tonnages
the co. apparently has been
assigned six options and agree*
ments-to-purchase. These involve
royalties in some cases, and/or
cash or other considerations ; in
others a share of the profits is
payable to the vendors. In two
cases a limit of £500,000 is placed
on maximum royalties payable ;
in others, no limit.
The options and agreements
with various people have been
assigned by Isa Syndicate, N.L.,
to Crescent Rutile, N.L., for,
apparently, a 20 p.c. share of the
profits from rutile-mining.
Referring to the options, the
prospectus proceeds in its vague
way:
It is not known at this stage
whether any one or more will be
exercised, but if so exercised the
purchase-price will be paid either:
(1) out of the sum set aside as
working-capital,
(2) out of the proceeds of the sale
of the company’s products,
(3) by the issue of fully-paid shares,
or partly in one and partly in another
or others of those ways.
Where the purchase-price involves
the payment of royalties, such pay-
ment will be made out of the pro-
ceeds of sale of the company’s
products.
It appears that the actual lump-
sum consideration as part of the
price under the assorted options,
if exercised, is £175,000, payable
by somebody, some time.
The public is now offered
1,995,000 shares of 2s. 6d. for
cash. This will raise £250,000,
with shares already issued. The
minimum subscription for allot-
ment is £125,000.
In quoting rutile tonnages,
actual “grade” of sand (including
overburden) isn’t given in the
prospectus (perhaps it isn’t
customary in rutile shows), but
costs are mentioned in the present
tense at £3O a ton. With rutile at
£7O a ton (£5O below the present
market) a postscript to the
prospectus talks of “net profit”
at £200,000 from an output of
5000 tons of rutile. With rutile
at £9O and costs at £3O, net profit
is put at £300,000. Whether these
figures are estimated before or
after the vendors’ cut isn’t any
clearer than many other things
about the float.
Full subscription of the issue
will, it is contended, finance two
plants each capable of producing
5000 tons of rutile a year.
Silk and Textile Printers
pRINTING high-class fashion-
A materials at Glenorchy, near
Hobart, Silk and Textile
Printers, Ltd., has been making
good profits through imagination
and enterprise. In spite of a
receding tide in the fashion-
goods business in 1955-56, S.T.P.
increased its sales and its profit.
This was solely the result of
better methods of production
and higher man-hour output,
with stable selling-prices.
The co. believes in scrapping
plant still in good order but
obsolete in design, and replacing
it with new equipment that will
rapidly pay for itself.
Its products and policy have
attracted overseas interest, as a
result of which Carrington and
Dewhurst, Ltd., a large U.K.
weaver of synthetics, is to take
up 60,000 £1 shares in S.T.P. at
555.
Before the issue is made to the
U.K. firm, a bonus-issue is to
be made to S.T.P. shareholders
in the ratio of one-for-two. This
will presumably be financed
mainly from the asset-revaluation
reserve (£96,168) created last
year.
In 1955-56 S.T.P. profits were
equal to 41 p.c. on the £210,000
of capital, slightly more than
in the preceding year. The div.
was kept unchanged at 15 p.c.
Reserves (apart from asset-
revaluation) now exceed paid
capital.
A cash issue of undisclosed
dimensions is also to be made to
S.T.P. shareholders and the £1
stock-units split into ss. units.
The present £1 units sold at
70s. last Week in Melbourne.
AjC.I.
Australian consoli-
dated INDUSTRIES,
LTD., with its activities spread-
ing from glassmaking, plastic-
manufacture and engineering of
various kinds to carton- and
package-making, mining and
insurance (glass, Laminex and
plastics are also made in N.Z. ;
glass products in Singapore and
Bangkok), hasn’t had an im-
portant bonus-issue since the
name was changed from Aus-
tralian Glass Manufacturers’
Co., Ltd., in 1938. (The 1950
bonus-issue was only one-for-25.)
There have been several post-
war issues for cash and at a
premium, ord. capital growing
from £4,486,233 in 1948 to
£9,404,230 at June 30, with about
£350,000 still to come in; That
will leave the ord.-share total
near enough to £lO million.
The A.C.I. group provide
adequately for depreciation and
taxation. Including £595,000 set
aside to provide for increased
cost of replacing fixed assets,
net profit of £2,271,254 last year
was equal to 26 p.c. on average
ord. capital, and the ord. div.
was maintained at 12} p.c.
At 555. the ord. shares give
a present yield of £4 11s. per
cent., and the 1955-56 rate of
earnings to capital was almost
10 p.c. on the market price. Net
tangibles (written-down values)
amount to 375. lOd. per ord.
share.
It is hard to pass by A.C.I.
when making out a portfolio of
shares for holding.
Publishers’ Holdings, Ltd.
PUBLISHING “Man” and a
* long string of other colorful
periodicals, some with a pointed
teenage appeal, others for the
home-owner and those with
specialised interests, Publishers
Holdings turns out 1,500,000
magazines a month from its
works at North Lidcombe (near
Sydney), using 200 tons of paper
a month in the process, and
working its plant round the
clock. Some of its mags, are sold
in the U.K.
And it makes money. After
setting aside £20,550 for depre-
ciation and £48,150 for taxation,
consolidated net profit for
1955-56 was £81,356, compared
with £60,936 in the previous
term, and equal to 33 p.c. on
average capital. A 15 p.c. div.
was repeated, and £2OOO was
transferred to the staff provident
fund.
Paid capital is now £250,000,
which has the assistance of
£69,144 of reserves. The busi-
ness was begun 20 years ago by
K. G. Murray, and he and F. T.
Smith have been largely respon-
sible for the rapid expansion
shown since. It became a public
co. in 1950.
The ss. ords. are at 9s. on
’Change.
Mcllwraith McEachern
pREEHOLD and leasehold
properties of Mcllwraith
McEachern, Ltd., stand in the
co.’s books at £245,406. Head-
quarters are in Melbourne, but
the Sydney freehold alone would
be worth more than that; and
there are other branch-offices at
Newcastle, Adelaide, Perth and
Fremantle.
In addition to its freeholds,
and apart from vessels, the co.
had £852,009 in Commonwealth
and British Government
securities at June 30 last, as well
as £99,328 in shares and £4OOO
in debentures, and an item of
£290,695 of cash.
But the co. is in the coastal
shipping business, with its high
costs and (last year) industrial
strife, and net profit last term was
only £79,514, after allowing for
£81,592 visibly charged against
reserve for surveys, overhauls and
dockings. This remaining profit
represented 7.9 p.c. on total
capital (£1 million, half in ords.
and half in 5 p.c. cum. par.
prefs.), and the usual all-round
6 p.c. div. was paid.
Obviously the fleet (which
includes the fine passenger-vessel
Kanimbla) isn’t earning much,
though it is valued in the books
at £937,236, including progress-
payments on two new cargo
motor-vessels of 3450 tons dead-
weight.
The co.’s ords. at around par
are an investment with peculiar
aspects a high visible asset-
backing (about 425. a share), with
evidence of much more on a
revaluation basis, while the div.
is low and the present yield
correspondingly moderate. The
prefs,, which are slightly higher
in the market, have all the finan-
cial rights possessed by the ords.,
plus priority as to a 5 p.c.
minimum div. and to return of
capital.


Tour OWN Grain Storage!
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
AND AUGERS
m •
£;X ; :v>
v-: :•■--•■
raMrn •
• Heavy gauge galvanised sheets
0 Easily erected permanent
0 Rodent and weatherproof
0 Steel earth rings and loading plat-
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
0 Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
©Segmented con-
struction for easy
assembly
0 Unique vertical
filling avoids
congestion
0 Vertical sets
complete with
wall brackets,
chute tubes,
etc.
AUGERS. Priced as low
as 1111. Popular type
for standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided)
£l3B.
WRITE for further in-
formatin and Agents'
Names to Dept. No. B
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght tAustralia) Pty. Ltd. In
all Capital Cities.
SSAX/56
<Bs©®
t 4-..
y
I V
/
&
fs
\ v
rl
iiisiiiliill
-li'CS'*
... an A.N.Z. Cheque Account
much more^convenienf
Let responsibility rest gently upon your
daughter’s shoulders. Encourage her to save
her money, to budget well, to pay her
accounts by cheque.
By using her regular Bank statement she sees
the cumulative effect of small transactions and
is provided with a sound basis and incentive
for long-term budgeting.
Using an A.N.Z. cheque account has helped
many girls to develop confidence and a
business-like attitude towards financial matters
in general.
Why not solve that gift problem by starting
an A.N.Z. cheque account for your daughter
or for any other member of your family?
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 850 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London.
Agents throughout the World.
'ANZ. 94.24841
If any ‘‘Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
UNITED DOMINIONS
CORPORATION
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
, ( Incorporated in Victoria)
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL £500,000
ASSETS EXCEED £1,750,000
Directors:
E. A. LLOYD (Chairman)
H. R. BEARDSMORE W. J. V. WINDEYER
General Manager:
J. J. HALL
SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
Rate of Interest Term
6i% 3 years
6% 2 years
5£% . 12 months
5% 9 months
Interest payable quarterly—free of exchange.
APPLY TO
ANY MEMBER OF THE SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
OR
COMPANY’S HEAD OFFICE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL BUILDING
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Box 4515, G.P.O. ’Phone 8W4828
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
T HE stepping-down of 72-year-
old Clement Davies from
the leadership of Britain’s
Liberal party in favor of 43-year-
old Joseph Grimond will prob-
ably have some refreshing effect,
if only because of the difference
in ages; but is unlikely materially
to alter the political scene. Some-
thing very much more sensational
than the mere transfer of a virtu-
ally nominal authority would
need to happen before the
displaced Liberals (commanding,
maybe, a potential 10,000,000
votes) began to have thoughts
of unification and resurgence.
The bald truth is that, by force
of circumstances (which were not
entirely beyond its control),
organised Libera 1 i s m has
degenerated into a political
laughing-stock, not least because
of the election-time refrain “The
Liberal candidate forfeits his
deposit.” With its great and
estimable tradition of safeguard-
ing human rights and liberty
(far more inspiring than parrot-
cries of “fair shares” and
“equality”) the Liberal party has
never been short of workers.
But it has displayed a suicidal
absence of realism. By marshal-
ling its forces resolutely and
concentrating them in friendly
camps, shrewd leadership might
well have led to a representation
in Parliament of, perhaps, 30 or
40 seats: —a sturdy nucleus with
strong promise of growth. In-
stead, the tendency has been to
live in the great but now-
distant past.
Moreover, the elected M.P.s
(numbering six in 1955) have
hardly been notable for their
solidarity; arid the disintegra-
tion suffered by the original party
is instanced by the fact that
there are no less than five
splinter-parties, now allied to the
Conservatives, represented at
Westminster by 45 members.
The biggest opportunity that
has slipped away is the appeal
of Liberalism to the younger
voters. Socialism , nowadays
attracts few young people ; Con-
servatism, due to good organisa-
tion and social affinities, fares
better. But Liberalism offers
something of a political belief
which is what the youth of to-
day is searching for —all the
more, perhaps, because it is a
middle way.
Rt. Hon. Treasurer
Nye Bevan has dramatically
caught the limelight again. But
not theatrically, as of old. His
re-emergence (to high and in-
calculable power, too) was not
even a foregone conclusion, at
least up to the last minute. For
three years he has laid low and,
before his election as treasurer,
made none of his customary
rabble-rousing declamations.
It may be, of course, that the
wily old hand knew what he was
doing when he sacrificed a
certain seat on the executive in
order to oppose his rival, Gaits-
kell, for the treasurership. With
the trade-union leaders deter-
minedly against him —the man
whose personal acrimony had
undermined party solidarity—
he knew he must lose, in 1954
and again in 1955. But Gaits-
kell was being groomed to take
over from Attlee. After his pro-
motion, the opposition would be
easier. So it was. If a third
candidate had not chosen to
stand, the card-vote of his own
union, the A.E.U., would have
gone to Bevan, giving him a
majority of 900,000.
The paradox is that when
Bevan opposed Gaitskell he was
provoking disunity ; now that he
has beaten George Brown he is
acclaimed as the great unifier!
Which emphatically demon-
strates the surge to the Left,
union-leaders included. The
tidal-wave also carried away
Gaitskell, although it is fair to
say that he didn’t offer any
resistance. His immediate states-
manlike approach to the Suez
affair is evidently to be the first
and last—since it proved to be
such a dangerous line for a
Labor leader to take. His after-
thoughts, if scarcely helpful to I
his country’s case, at least are j
essential to his party’s solidarity.
Bevan’s position on the execu-
tive committee is much stronger
than before, when he led a group
holding a voting-power of only
a fifth of the conference; now
he has been elected on a majority
vote of the whole party. This
means that he will now be able
to influence policy from the
centre, instead of provoking it
from the fringe.
Gaitskell is well respected for
his handling of men and matters.
The struggle, if that is the
natural outcome, will not be one-
sided.
Dylanthropy
When Dylan Thomas died of
self-neglect in New York he left
only £lOO. His estate is now
reaping a fortune. That this is
largely because of the notoriety
surrounding his behavior in later
years is beyond dispute. For
“Under Milk Wood,” which is
now filling the New Theatre and
which is to be produced in
America, was originally written
for broadcasting. Then, as a
tribute, it was given a rehearsed
reading at the Old Vic. But when
poor Thomas’s irregularities
became front-page news it
acquired a commercial potential.
To assess the stage-production
in critical terms is by no means
a straightforward matter of
debits and credits, if only
because it is manifestly better
than innumerable successful
plays written specially for the
theatre by innumerable success-
ful dramatists. Again, if one
pays tribute to the producers,
Douglas Cleverdon and Edward
Burnham, for their taking of
pains and for their meticulous
understanding, to designer
Michael Trangmar for his
ingenious and unfussy set, and to
the cast of thirty-odd devoted
and unselfish actors, it is with
the realisation that their contri-
butions are, in the best sense,
interpretive. The creator him-
self dominates the evening.
Those who have affinity with
Thomas’s surrealistic verbal pro-
fligacy and who don’t mind his
schoolboy archness (the “Welsh”
look of his village, Llareggub, for
example, will not bear a back-
ward glance) should revel in his
extravagance. Others may prefer
to listen to the poetry (subtly
contrasting in mood and style,
with flashes of loveliness) and
picture in their own imaginations
the very odd inhabitants, not all
of whom come out well in flesh-
and-blood portrayal. For the
rest, the diverse characters, sur-
prising revelations, humor,
immense gusto and forthright
bawdiness provide abundant
entertainment.
Of the actors, those come off
best who are least far-fetched:
notably T. H. Evans (Rev. Eli
Jenkins), William Squire (Cap-
tain Cat), Richard Curnock
(Organ Morgan), Diana Maddox
(Polly Garter) and Betty Lloyd-
Davies (Mary Ann Sailors).
Donald Houston, as the narrator,
superbly contrives to be
unobtrusive.
Lush
The revival of Flotow’s
“Martha” at Sadler’s Wells is a
tonicful escape, both from this
cruel world and, if you feel that
way, from present-day opera.
Here is Olde Englande, seen
through the eyes of a German,
with high-born ladies
masquerading as maidservants,
proving quite incompetent, and
falling in love with their masters.
Here are the fair on Richmond
Green and a tavern on Rich-
mond Hill, with a rousing
chorus of hunters and villagers
(“Hurrah for the hops! Hurrah
for the malt!” etc.), sentiment
by the half-hour and a lover so
distraught as to go temporarily
out of his mind.
We might, a hundred years
later, suspect song-plugging with
so much, so often, of “The Last
Rose of Summer,” but there are
other good tunes and, blessedly,
not the slightest suggestion of
New Music. A conscientious
performance quite avoids self-
burlesque.


That I Perplexing Problem!
Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
TR38.35
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
—note will my Estate be administered?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Cd. Ltd. Executor of
your Will, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over
77 years’ specialised experience in the Administration of Estates, and the
assurance that the interests of your legatees will be safeguarded until the
Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
* Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLI6H STREET, SYDNEY.
Capifal (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell.
David Wilson, M.A., 1L.8., <?.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
McPherson’s, Ltd.
r F'HE 1955-56 term promised to be a
particularly successful one for this
old-established manufacturer and mer-
chant, but, although trading results were
satisfactory, import- and credit-controls
checked the progress evident in the first
six months of the term.
The parent cp., six subsidiaries (includ-
ing the recently purchased Keep Bros,
and Wood Pty.), and five associated cos.
are engaged in the manufacture and/or
distribution of an extensive range of
machine-tools, hardware, and engineering
supplies. Head-office of the group, which
includes an N.Z. subsidiary, is in Mel-
bourne and there are branches in all
mainland States.
Coming only twelve months after a
one-for-four par issue of 693,000 fl
shares, the recently completed one-for-
five par issue is expected to raise £704,000,
lifting paid capital to £4,353,396, over 3±
million f.-p. £1 shares having been issued
since 1945. Employees hold 185,600 £1
“E” shares, on which, at the discretion of
the directors, a div. of 50 p.c. above the
ord. div. may be paid. The “E” shares
rank equally with the ords. for return of
capital but do not participate in any
surplus.
The parent’s sales reached a record
£12,877,956 (up £867,007), but the rate
of turnover decreased in the second half
of the term as Government import- and
credit-policies began to take effect. The
directors state that the ratio of gross
profit to sales improved, but increased
wages and taxation mor6 than offset the
gain, while a shortage of local supplies
forced the co. to use high-priced imported
steel in order to maintain production at
the bolt-factories. After providing
£409,905 (up £21,385) for taxation and
£116,901 (up £11,251) for depreciation,
net profit fell by £65,155 to £692,819:
Parent Only,
, Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. “E” Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1952.. 481,645 15 10 = 231,779 249,866 2,276,401
Profit sale shares, £16,516 .. .. 2,292,917
Bonus from associate, £7770 .. .. 2,300,687
1953.. 475,320 15 10 = 304,209 171,111 2,471,798
Tax overprovided, £87,743 .. .. 2,559,541
1954.. 680,479 16 11 = 333,726 346,753 2,906,294
Profit sale fixed assets, £108,555 .. 3,014,849
From depreciation reserve, £27,000.. 3,041,849
Tax underprovided, £lB4O .. .. 3,040,009
1955.. 757,974 17} 12}= 378,001 379,973 3,419,982
Tax overprovided, £3058 .. .. 3,423,040
1956.. 692,819 17} 12}= 465,454 227,365 3,650,405
The parent’s earnings include £36,834 (up
£9557) received as divs. from subsidiaries,
shares in other cos. bringing in £42,811,
an increase of £23,687. Total subsidiary
earnings, less outside interests’ share, rose
by £7381 to £89,325.
Ord. and “E” divs. (unaltered at 12|
p.c. and 17£ p.c. respectively) were com-
fortably covered by the earnings, which
equalled a return of 18.9 p.c. on the paid
capital at balance-date compared with
25.6, 23, 19.1, and 21.5 p.c. back to 1952.
If no further “E” shares were issued, a
similar distribution on the enlarged capital
would call for £553,455, or £139,364 less
than the profit claimed for the term.
Comparative balance-sheets show the
co.’s continuing growth, capital intro-
duced during the term and retained earn-
ings financing the heavier stocks (up
£297,525) and expenditure on plant (up
£288,201) and premises (up £282,507):
n ., ... „ !954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital . . £2,951,690 £2,9517890 £3,649,396
Reserves .. . . 2,906,294 3,419,982 3,650,405
Owing to subside. 25,357 35,818 20,407
Creditors . . . . 542,764 695,549 622,115
Overdraft . . . . 581,022 561,492
Tax provision . . 350,000 388,520 409,905
Final dividends . . 333,726 378,001 465,454
£7,109,831 £8,450,582 £9,379,174
Freeholds .. .. 795,297 1,063,055 1,345.562
Plant, machinery,
® te 716,215 860,992 1,149,193
Shares in subsids. 355,172 387,862 415,263
Other shares .. 291,588 305,488 319,088
Owing by subsids. 41,042 30,942 45,464
Debtors .. . . 1,762,467 2,209,622 2,213 608
Stock •• •• 2,783,943 3,591,388 3,888,’913
Cash and bonds . . 364,107 1,233 2,083
£7,109,831 £8,450,582 £9,379,174
Bank-overdraft was trimmed by £19,530,
and the amount due to creditors reduced
by £73,434, working-capital increasing by
£316,420 to £4,070,695. Capital raised in
the current term will be utilised in the
completion of the new Brisbane ware-
house and an additional showroom and
store in Sydney.
Freeholds are conservatively valued at
cost less depreciation; however, book-
values give the ords. issued at June 30 a
solid asset backing of 41s. Id. At 465.
the f.-p. £1 ords. return 5.4 p.c. from a
12-} p.c. div.
Bruce Pie Industries, Ltd. (Bris.)
A/f ANY of the smaller textile-manufac-
iTA turers have had a fairly lean time
over the past few years. Normally a
strongly competitive business, the (now-
reduced) flow of imported goods and
the popularity of synthetic fibres have
led to an intensification of competition,
while the effect of falling wool-prices on
stocks and increasing labor-costs have
whittled-down profit-margins. Produc-
tion schedules, too, have been affected
by the late receipt of orders due to the
more cautious buying-policy of many
customers, and production, on the whole,
is below the installed capacity of the
industry.
The accounts to June 30 last of Bruce
Pie Industries, Ltd., Brisbane textile- and
bedding-manufacturer, show the effect of
these difficulties on earnings, and
although the co.’s turnover reached a
record figure, net profit fell by 26.2 p.c.
The formation of Bruce Pie Industries
in 1946 reduced Queensland’s dependence
on southern textile - manufacturers
(although the co. finds markets in other
States as well) and the development of
the spinning, knitting and dyeing indus-
tries in Queensland was said to be one
of its primary objectives. The co. is also
interested in bedding-manufacture, a
small factory at Townsville supplement-
ing the output from the Kedron (Bris-
bane) works, where most of the co.’s
activities, including those of its sub-
sidiary, Queensland Textiles Pty., are
centred.
Paid capital amounts to £675,000 in
f.-p. £1 shares, the last issue being at par
on a one-for-two basis in 1951.
Profit-margins were reduced during the
term, competition keeping prices down
in spite of higher wage-costs. Gross
earnings from the record turnover
(unstated) were £24,122 lower at £212,306,
while expenses fell by only £6030.
Including a £7500 (unchanged) div. from
the subsidiary, net profit at £40,816 was
down by £14,536 after providing £24,500
(down £3500) for taxation and £10,013
(down £3804) for depreciation:
t ti . To Re- Re-
« June, Profit. ( Dividends— serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951 .. 52,388 6 p.e. = 29,809 22,579 21,100
1952 .. 42,443 5 „ „ 33,750 8,693 29,793
Profit sale fixed assets, £10,917 .. 40,710
1953 .. 27,827 3 p.c. = 20,250 7,577 48,287
Profit sale fixed assets, £369 .. 48,656
1954 .. 51,067 5 p.c. = 33,750 17,317 65,973
Profit sale assets, £9167 .. 75,140
1955 .. 55,352 6 p.e. = 40,500 14,852 89,992
Profit sale freehold, £4835 .. .. 94 827
1956 .. 40,816 6 p.e. = 40,500 316 95443
* After deducting intangibles, written off 1954.
The unchanged 6 p.c. div. took all but
£316 of the earnings, the profitable sale of
freehold property at Kedron bringing
the net addition to reserves to £5151.
Earnings equalled a trifle over 6 p.c. on
capital compared with 8.2, 7.5, 4.1 and
6.3 p.c. in the four preceding years.
Unfavorable trading-conditions have
limited the amount available for reserves,
and the co. added £30,753 to its over-
draft to help' finance the purchase of new
plant (up £15,681) and to enable a £33,331
increase in debtors, including an
additional £7619 owing by the subsidiary:
1954 1955 1956.
Paid capital .. £675,000 £675,000 £675,000
Reserves .. .. 65,974 89,992 95,143
Overdraft .. .. 92,171 42,322 73,075
Sundry creditors* 160,795 190,984 191,617
Final div. .. 33,760 40,500 40,500
£ 1,027,690 £1,038,798 £1,075,335
Freeholds, etc. .. 190,099 197,326 193,689
Plant . . .. 137,919 135,474 151,165
Shares subsid. .. 116,142 116,142 116,142
Stocks . . .. 456,581 456,023 447,733
Debtors .. .. 125,802 132,664 165,995
Pash .. 1,147 1,169 621
£1,027,690 £1,038,798 £1,075,385
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Working-capital was £6891 lower at
£309,159, stocks being valued at £8250
less than the opening figure, despite
higher production.
The outlook for the current term is a
little brighter; imported garments will
be comparatively scarce, while firm and
expected orders will absorb “many
months’ ” production.
The f.-p. £1 shares have a net tangible
backing of 225. 10d., and at 12s. return
10 p.c. from a 6 p.c. distribution.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
A REGULAR dividend-payer since
1906, Sydney’s Hotel Metropole has
also rewarded its shareholders with
bonus-issues, amounting to £167,402 of
the £302,412 paid capital, as well as a
cash bonus of £67,500 back in 1920, when
reconstruction led to the formation of
the present co. The last issue was in
June, 1954, when, after a partial revalua-
tion of fixed assets, 50,402 £1 bonus-
shares were handed-out on a one-for-five
basis. Dividends over the past 10 years
have averaged 11.8 p.c., the 12£ p.c. rate
reintroduced in 1955 being repeated for
the year ended June 30 last.
Country visitors to Sydney make up a
large proportion of the hotel’s clientele,
and consequently floods in many parts of
Queensland, N.S.W. and Victoria affected
income during the term, and with higher
labor-costs and co.-tax there was a
reversal of the upward trend of earnings
seen over the past few years.
Provision for taxation was increased
by £3250 to £29,750, and an additional
£lOOO (to £5000) was provided for
depreciation, while repairs and renova-
tions absorbed approximately £16,000
more than in the preceding term, leaving
net profit £4659 lower at £43,120:
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1952.. 26,843 10 p.c. = 25,201 1,642 111,431
1953.. 32,509 11} „ „ 28,981 3,528 114,959
Revaluation assets, £53.888 .. .. 168,847
Reserves capitalised, £50,402.. .. 118,445
From tax reserve, £9878 .. .. 128,323
1954.. 36,696 11} p.c. = 32,761 3,935 132,258
To renewals reserve, £5OOO .. .. 127,258
1955.. 47,779 12} p.c. = 37,802 9,977 137,235
Long-service provision, £4500 .. 132,735
1956.. 43,120 12} p.c. = 37,801 5,319 138,054
* Excludes renewals reserve, £15,000, 30/6/’56.
The £43,120 includes an amount of
£4500 which the directors set aside as a
provision for long-service leave, so that
after covering the 12j p.c. div. there was
only £Bl9 added to reserves. Earnings
represented 14.2 p.c. on capital, compared
with 15.8 p.c. and 12.1 p.c. in the two
years since capital was increased, and
12.9, 10.6, and 14.1 p.c. back to 1951.
Plans are almost complete for the recon-
struction of a large number of bedrooms
in the original section of the building, and
during the term approximately £22,000
was spent on capital improvements, depre-
ciation write-off leaving the net addition
to fixed assets (shown at cost or valua-
tion) at £16,994:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. . . £302,412 £302,412 £302.412
Reserves . . . . 132,258 137,235 138,054
Renewals reserve .. 10,000 15,000 15,000
Creditors .. .. 18,366 19,922 27,063
Tax provision .. 21,500 26,634 29,976
Final div. .. .. 22,681 22,681 22,681
£507,217 £523,854 £535,186
Fixed assets .. .. 308,205 308,547 325,541
Stock 6,349 5,199 8,204
Govt, securities, cash,
etc 192,663 201,138 201,441
£507,217 £523,884 £535,156
Higher prices account for part of the
£3005 increase in stock-values, and the
extra £7141 shown as owing to creditors
would appear to include the provision for
long-service leave. Holdings of cash and
bonds, etc., are down by £8697, but still
remain a substantial £201,441, providing
funds for the planned improvements to
the hotel.
The Elizabeth-street extension and
near-by building activity may bring more
business to the co., and shareholders
should ultimately benefit from the capital-
expenditure completed and planned.
The f.-p. £1 shares have a net tangible
asset backing of 295. 2d. and at 375. 6d.
return 6.7 p.c. from a p.c. distribution.
Kinnears Ropes (Australia), Ltd.
A HIGHER turnover enabled Kinnears
to absorb heavier overhead expenses
and still maintain a satisfactory earning-
rate during the year ended June 30 last
(February 29 for the operating sub-
sidiary). Established in 1874, the present
holding co. took over 80 years later, the
public contributing £202,860 of the
£903,000 paid capital. The initial 8 p.c.
div. has been followed by 9 p.c. distri-
butions, all paid partly from tax-free
reserves. The scrip is listed on the
Melbourne ’Change.
It would appear that reasonable
supplies of imported raw materials are
available for the manufacture of the co.’s
main products, ropes and twines, in spite
of the import - restrictions, which
strengthen demand for the flax-yarn, spun
from locally-produced flax, at the co.’s
Melbourne works.
The higher value of sales, coupled with
an additional £9057 (to £18,231) from
investments, etc., led to improved earn-
ings, but heavier co. tax limited the gain
to £1462, a net profit of £167,419 remain-
ing after providing £109,500 (up £14,500)
for taxation and an ample £35,479 (up
£5771) for depreciation:
Parent and Sdbsidiary.
t ‘ . T° Re- Re-
•lune Profit, Dividend——, serves. serves.
30, £ £ £ £
1904.. 111,111 8 p.c. = 72,240 38,871 91,785
Staff fund, £25,000 .. .. .. 66 785
1955.. 165,957 9 p.c. = 81,270 84,687 151^472
Tax overprovided, £2746 .. .. 154,218
1956.. 167,419 9 p.c. = 81,270 86,149 240.367
Equalling a return of 18.5 p.c. from paid
capital, compared with 18.2 p.c. and
12.3 p.c. in the two previous years, earn-
ings covered the 9 p.c. div. twice with
£4879 to spare. The div. included 2$ p.c.
from tax-free reserves, which are now
practically exhausted. Although not
large in relation to paid capital, reserves
have benefited from a prudent div. policy,
increasing by £88,895 over the term.
Improved quality and economy of pro-
duction followed the installation of new
plant, reflected in the balance-sheet by
the addition of £53,687 to the value of
fixed assets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
_ , 1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £903,000 £903,000 £903,000
Reserves .. .. 91,774 151,472 240,367
Outside interests .. 50 50 50
Creditors, etc. .. 230,859 260,442 234,065
Staff fund . . _ 25,000 25,000
Tax provision .. 82,000 95,000 109,500
Final divs. .. 72,240 45,150 45,150
Inter-co. balances.. 3,118 36,120 36,120
£1,383,041 £1,516,234 £1,693,252
Freehold .. .. 527,874 556,675 660,012
Plant, etc. .. 213,268 229,995 280,345
Investments .. 46,870 47,470 52,029
Stock .. .. 293,931 412,713 451,383
Debtors, etc. .. 174,199 181,916 248,413
Cash, bonds .. 126,899 87,465 1,070
£1,383,041 £1,516,234 £1,593,252
Higher stocks (up £38,670) and debtors
(up £66,497) have accompanied the


„J?e A^ S A. COLLISON ’ Pa t e nt Attar-
;- ys - f 22 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
iracie Marks.—Adviu
THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Ordinance 1912-1954 of the Territory of Papua.)
Issue of 3,000,000 ordinary shares of 5
each at par with negotiable options for
3,000,000 further ordinary shares
CLOSING DATE
More than 2,700,000 shares of the Issue have
already been applied for. The Directors intend
to close the Issue on 31st October, 1956, but
have the right to do so at an earlier date.
HOW TO APPLY FOR SHARES
APPLICATION FORMS and copies of the Prospectus
may be obtained from:
(a) The Company’s Registered Offices at 375 George
Street, Sydney, or c/- Mr. Norman White, Barrister
and Solicitor, Port Moresby, Papua.
(b) Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
(c) Brokers to the Issue:
Ernest L. Davis & Co., 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
Eric R. Jeffery, 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
Vic. (Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.)
J. H. Clack & Co., 14 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
(Members of the Newcastle Stock Exchange.)
Applications for shares must be made on the form which
is part of the Prospectus.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to
Prospectuses have not been fully complied with) is published for
information only. The Prospectus (of which this is an abridgment)
is dated 26th July, 1956.
of 5'- each at par
OPTIONS
To each share attaches an option to take up one ordinary
share of 5/- at par at any time within five years from the
date of the Prospectus. Such options are separable from
the shares of the Issue and will be traded in separately.
The options may be required to be taken up by the
Company on one month’s notice within the five-year
period on an announcement by the Minister of State
for Territories of the Commonwealth of Australia, or
the Administrator of the Territories of Papua and New
Guinea, of the discovery of oil in commercial quantities
in the Company’s permit area. These options will
enable subscribers to this Issue to benefit materially from
a successful search for oil in Papua.
ACTIVITIES OF COMPANY AND OBJECTS OF ISSUE
The Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company Limited holds a
permit to prospect for petroleum in an area of about 8,600
square miles in the Gulf and Central Districts of Papua near
Port Moresby. The funds are required to carry out and
accelerate geological and geophysical surveys and to implement
a drilling programme.
NEWLY ACQUIRED DRILLING PLANT AND
APPLICATIONS FROM OTHER COMPANIES
ASSOCIATED AUSTRALIAN OILFIELDS N.L.
Under an arrangement made prior to the date of the Pros-
pectus, Associated Australian Oilfields N.L. is transferring
(for shares outside the scope of this Issue) its National T 32
drilling plant to the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company
Limited, and has also applied for 500,000 shares of the Issue
for cash.
ASSOCIATED FRENET OIL FIELDS N.L.
Under an arrangement made subsequent to the date of the
Prospectus, Associated Freney Oil Fields N.L. is transferring
(for shares outside the scope of this Issue) its National 55
drilling plant to the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company
Limited, and has also applied for 1,000,000 shares of the Issue
for cash.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
20,000,000 shares of 5/- each £5,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL
879,321 shares of 5/- each on which
£219,646 has been paid £219,830
CAPITAL OFFERED FOR ISSUE
3,000,000 shares of 5/- each £750,000
DIRECTORS
B. W. Graham, M.P., 74 Kameruka Road, Northbridge,
N.S.W., Company Director (Chairman).
L. F. Nix, 13 Bligh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Solicitor.
A. E. Prince, 34 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W., Company
Director.
F. A. Mackell, B.Ec., 5 Hampden Avenue, Darling Point,
Sydney, Company Manager.
G. H. R. Jones, LL.B., 12 Barana Parade, Roseville Chase,
N.S.W., Solicitor.
R. F. Hockey, A.S.A.S.M., M.A.1.M.E., M.AUS.I.M.M., 422
Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic., Mining Engineer.
PAYMENT FOR SHARES
Payment is to be made:
(a) 1/- per share with application, of which 3d. per share
is application money and 9d. per share represents a pre-
paid call;
'b) by calls of 1/- per share, the first of which is payable
not less than three months from the date of allotment
and the remaining 3/- in calls of not more than 1/- per
share, payable at intervals of not less than two months.
Shareholders have the right to pay up in full to par value
(5/- per share) at any time and in advance of calls.
TAXATION
Section 78 (1) (b) of the Income Tax and Social Services Con-
tribution Assessment Act 1936, as amended, specifies that one-third
of the amount of calls paid on shares of oil prospecting companies
in Papua may be claimed as an allowable deduction in Australian
taxation returns. Calls paid in respect of the shares of this Issue
qualify for this concession.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION
(a) The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors,
must be raised by the issue of shares under the Prospectus is
£50,000. (This amount has already been subscribed.)
This amount is required to be provided in respect of the
following matters:
(i) Purchase price of any property purchased
or to be purchased Nil
(ii) Expenses of the Issue (including brokerage
amounting to £2,083 payable to the Brokers
of this Issue) £7,000
(iii) Repayment of moneys borrowed in respect of
foregoing matters Nil
(iv) Working Capital £43,000
£50,000
(b) Any sums obtained on the issue of shares in excess of £50,000
will be used as working capital.
(c) Amount to be provided in respect of the matters aforesaid
otherwise than out of the proceeds of the Issue is nil.
(d) No amount is payable for preliminary expenses.
In pursuance of Clause 99 (2) of the Petroleum (Prospecting and
Mining) Ordinance 1951/1955 of the Territory of Papua and New
Guinea, it is declared that nothing in this advertisement is to be
taken as claiming or suggesting that the Minister or the
Administrator, or a Government Department of the Common-
wealth or of the Territory or a person or a body acting on behalf
of such person or department, has formed or expressed an opinion
that any land included in a permit, licence or lease of the Company
is from its geological formation or otherwise land in which
petroleum is likely to be obtainable.
greater turnover, while outside
liabilities have been reduced,
total creditors falling by £26,377,
due to the repayment of
deposits lodged with the co.
These movements have involved
a drop of £86,395 in holdings
of cash and bonds, augmenting
the funds available from undis-
tributed earnings. ,
At 15s. 9d. the 10s. ords.
return 5.8 p.c., while profits in
relation to market capitalisation
equal 11.7 p.c. Net tangible
assets support each share to the
extent of 12s. Bd.
Anglo-Oriental Tin
TTOLLOWING ratification
-*• earlier this year of the Inter-
national Tin Agreement, the first
meeting of the International Tin
Council was held in London on
My 2, at which arrangements
were made for the initial contri-
butions by producer-countries to
the “buffer pool.”
For the immediate future the
U.S. Government’s Texas smelter
is expected to absorb any
marketable tin surplus up to
January 31, 1957. After that
production will probably exceed
consumption, and by the end of
the year restrictions on output
may be necessary, subject, of
course, to any unforeseen hap-
penings. Because of the delay
in ratifying the 1.T.A., however,
the council is not yet jn a posi-
tion to exercise much stabilising
influence on prices.
As well as marketing and other
operating problems usually
associated with mining ventures
in general, the future of the
Malayan tin industry has to be
viewed against the changing Con-
stitutional and political situation
in the Federation. Referring to
the position at the last annual
meeting of Kuala Kampar Tin
Fields, Ltd., one of the biggest
cos. of the Anglo-Oriental group,
chairman D. T. Waring recalled
that the Alliance Government
“has on many occasions made it
clear that it welcomes capital
enterprise and the attraction of
capital from overseas.”
All of the companies in the
A.-O. group were originally
incorporated in Malaya, and,
for the most part, the effective
seat of direction of their affairs
has always been in the Federa-
tion, which makes for a closer
identification of their interests
with those of the new nation.
Steamships Trading Co.
pROFIT-EARNING by Steam-
A ships Trading Co., Ltd., Port
Moresby, goes steadily ahead,
uninhibited by mainland
company-tax, though divs. in the
hands of Australian residents are
subject to personal taxation.
Last term the co. showed a net
profit of £163,874, compared
with £154,727 in the preceding
year, and the customary 124
p.c. div. was paid on the ords.,
leaving £77,624 for reserves,
which at £980,279 well exceed
paid capital (£700,000, of which
£50,000 is in 7 p c. prefs.).
Capitalisation of any part of
these reserves would probably
attract Australian income-tax if
the bonus shares were distributed
to Australian residents, so, a
bit unlike Topsy, they just
continue to grow—and grow.
Nevertheless they remain a
tantalising subject for invest-
ment-speculation.
The co. is a merchant with
branches at Samarai, Kairuku,
Hanuabada, Koki and Badili as
well as in Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, London and New
York. It owns several plantations
in New Guinea and Papua, has
some small coastal and river
vessels, engineering-works, ship-
yards, sawmills and a variety of
agencies. It was founded
originally by Captain A. S. Fitch,
a shrewd and colorful Islands
character who set it going in
1919. Its greatest period of
expansion has been over the past
20 years.
At 495. the ords. yield a shade
more than 5 p.c. on a 124 p.c.
div. basis.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro” drew
a large and distinguished audience to Her
Majesty’s, and there were many curtain-
calls as tribute to the sparkling per-
formance. In the audience were the Lord
Mayor (Cr. Sir Frank Selleck) and Lady
Selleck, her bouffant gown being of grey
tulle. Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife of the
Premier, wore a gown of pale-gold satin
with a jewel-embroidered strapless bodice.
Lady Warner’s oyster-grey satin gown
had panels of the satin latticed to add
fullness. Lady Tait wore an old-gold
de-lustred satin gown with a forest-green
velvet coat which had collar and bands
of white ermine.
A pleasant curtain-raiser before the
performance was the buffet-dinner party
given by Mr. Hugh Hunt, executive direc-
tor of the Elizabethan Trust, and
Mrs. Hunt at Mario’s. Mrs. Hunt
received her guests wearing a turquoise-
blue lace evening-frock,, with the low
hipline outlined with a band of matching
grosgrain ribbon. Accessories were a
beautiful gold-and-topaz necklace and
matching earrings. Guests included Sena
Jurinac and her husband, Sesto Brus-
cantini (who will be guest-stars for the
season), Sir John and Lady Latham,
Professor and Mrs. G. W. Paton, Mr.
and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson, Mr. and Mrs.
Massey Burnside, Mr. and Mrs. A. T.
Smithers, the John Cassons, Mr. and
Mrs. F. E. Lampe, Miss Gertrude
Johnson and Miss Myra Roper.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another triumph for the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust’s opera-company was
Mozart’s “The Magic Flute,” which
opened at Her Majesty’s to a capacity
audience which, because of the cold, wet
night, was content to wrap in warm
and leave glamor at home. Never-
theless, there were some eye-catching
gowns. One was Lady Tait’s deep-green
velvet in which she pinned pink roses,
which were also pinned in her handbag.
Miss Myra Roper wore a colorful stole
over her black gown.
# *
The famous British fighter-pilot, Group-
Captain Douglas Bader, was guest-of-
honor with his wife at the late-afternoon
party given by Mr. and Mrs. Lewis
Luxton at Menzies’ Hotel. Mrs. Bader
wore a cocktail-frock of black pure-silk
satin with swathed draping at the hipline.
The hostess topped her donkey-grey fine-
wool frock with a smart red cap. Chief
Justice Sir Edmund Herring was present
with Lady Herring, and with the Lord
Mayor was Lady Selleck, whose frock of
light-grey silk-shantung had an edging of
lace around the hem of the skirt.
Noted also at the party were Air-Vice-
Marshal Wackett and Mrs. Wackett, Air-
Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Daly, Air-Vice-
Marshal Douglas Candy and his wife (her
wide-brimmed hat swathed with pink
tulle and finished at the front with one
large pink rose), Group-Captain P. R.
Beare (R.A.F.) and Mrs. Beare, Vice-
Admiral and Mrs. R. R. Dowling, Sir
John Latham, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Jung-
wirth, Sir Thomas and Lady White,
Lieut.-General Sir William and Lady
Bridgeford, Mr. and Mrs. W. Kent
Hughes, Mr. and Mrs. L. P. Whitehead,
Mr. and Mrs. George Laird, Mr. and
Mrs. Tony Shepherd and Mr. and Mrs.
John Casson.
☆ ☆ ☆
When she married Peter Henry
Tremayne at the Church of England
Grammar School Chapel Margaret
Janeece Ward wore a gown of white tulle,
with the H-line accented in the skirt, and
the top of the bodice adorned with a fiat
white satin bow. The pleating of the
gown changed to ruching in the front
of the bodice and was continued in the
long sleeves. A pearl-coronet held the
short veil, and she carried a trail of white
orchids and lily-of-the-valley. Jan, who
is the only daughter of Mr. J. W. D.
Ward, of Mitford, Flinders, and the late
Mrs. Ward, was attended by Susan Hogg,
Janet Dunlop and Lou Beecham, whose
short white pleated lawn frocks had
sashes of cinnamon-brown satin to
match the flat bows worn in their hair.
Their posieis were of lily-of-the-valley.
The bridegroom, who is the only son of
Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Tremayne, of
Ormond, had Jim Webster for best man ;
Peter Watkin and Robert Coles were
groomsmen. Reception, which took the
form of a dinner-dance, was at No. 9
Darling-street, South Yarra.
# #
A smart sheath-frock of bronze
corded silk was worn by Mrs. Joseph
Wiedenmayer when, with her husband,
the U.S. Consul, she received guests at
their South Yarra home for cocktails.
Gay spring-flowers decorated the spacious
reception-rooms and made a pretty back-
ground for the many women guests
whose hats were also adorned with spring
flowers. Madame Le Bas de Plumetot
chose a hat covered with white daisies
and pink roses to go with her black
faille frock. Julia, who will star in the
Tivoli’s Olympic show, wore a frock of
black tulle with a side drapery of black
ostrich-feathers. The Marchesa Serafini,
wife of the Italian Consul-General, also
wore black and topped it with a lovely
pink outsize pillbox hat, the brim-edge
covered with curled pink leaves.
Others at the party were Captain and
Mrs. Gilbert Farnfield, Mr. and Mrs.
William Dargie, the David Martins (she
wearing a hat of swathed emerald-green
with a black Christian Dior frock), Mr.
and Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon (her pearl-
grey satin frock worn with a small match-
ing hat trimmed with water-lilies),
Canadian Trade Commissioner Roy
Blake, Madame Rene Stern (whose black
coat had a shawl-collar edged with sable),
Mr. and Mrs. Alan McCulloch, U.S.
Assistant Naval Attache Lieut. Robert
Brumstead and his wife, and Mr. and
Mrs. Tom Blarney. Mr. and Mrs.
Wiedenmayer were assisted in entertain-
ing by newly-arrived U.S. Consul
Carleton E. Brower and Mrs. Brower,
whose wool frock w T as emerald green.
Lady Bridgeford, wife of Lieut.-General
Sir William Bridgeford, Chief Executive
Officer of the Olympic Games Organising
Committee, has lived in India and
Japan as well as in England, when Sir
William was at the Imperial Staff College
and when he was Military Liaison Officer
at Australia House. During the Olympic
Games, Lady Bridgeford will be. hostess
to visiting officials. Photo by John
War low.
Some fashion-notes from the Caulfield
Cup meeting: Lady Brooks’s small, white
hat with its undulating brim, circled with
pastel-toned spring - flowers; Lady
Selleck’s hat of pale-champagne straw
trimmed with two gold roses in front;
Mrs. Norman Robinson’s navy waffle-
silk suit worn with a wild-rice coat in
camelhair cloth and a small white hat
with a red crown and tiny rose-
trimmings ; Lady Manifold’s navy frock
with collar and cuffs of white ; Mrs. H.
Silk’s most attractive white hat made
entirely of silk roses; the beaver-fur
collar and cuffs on the pepper-and-salt
tweed coat worn by Mrs. Lance Drum-
mond ; Mrs. Keith Laycock’s champagne-
colored mushroom-hat of straw swathed
in organza; Mrs. Ray Joseph’s sleek
navy wool frock worn with a white hat;
Mrs. James Buchanan’s large white
mushroom-hat swathed with white ; Mrs.
Wilbur Joynt’s beige coat with its lynx-
fur collar ; Mrs. John Newton’s suit of
pale-blue checked French-tweed worn
with a 1 matching-blue platter-hat; and
Mrs. Sue Cain’s tweed frock checked in
dark- and light-grey and her small
flowerpot hat trimmed with two shqdes
of grey-checked ribbon.
SYDNEY
Fetes and annual meetings, closely
followed by presentation of cheques, are
the leading social activities of the
moment, some of the annual meetings
being rather earlier this year. Why ?
Because unless everything is cleared up
before November 15 or thereabouts,
people will not be able to go to the
Olympics.
☆ ☆ ☆
The St. Vincent’s Hospital Fete was a
great success, with the girls of St.
Vincent’s College forming a guard-of-
honor for the president of the women’s
auxiliary, Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, who
opened the fete on Friday. The com-
mittee organising it was headed by Mrs.
Edmund Bateman, with Mrs. R. Chapman
and Mrs. E. O’Halloran at her right hand.
Mrs. Dekyvere’s mother, Mrs. Walter
Kerr, arranged the beautiful fancy-stall
which alone raised over £2OOO. After
the opening the Mother Rectoress,
Mother Michael, entertained the com-
mittee and official visitors at
afternoon-tea.
Suzanna Rhoades, whose engagement
has just been announced, is the youthful
only daughter of Captain and Mrs.
Rodney Rhoades, of Vaucluse. Her
fiance is Norris Dunn, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. T. H. Dunn, of Killara.
Suzanna is wearing a lovely diamond-and-
sapphire ring, and the young couple plan
to marry in December. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
In spite of the gusty winds that blew,
hats took the eye during the week at
nearly every function. At the University’s
garden-party, which followed the impres-
sive Commemoration of Benefactors,
roses bloomed on the hats of Mrs. Rupert
Scammell, Mrs. Phyllis Burke and Mrs.
Miculicic-Rodd, wattle on the hat of Mrs.
Roy McKerihan, and narcissus (repeated
on the suit-lapel) on the hat of Mrs. Roy
McCaughey. Many of the professors
wore the new bloused-crown type of
chapeau, in black with tassels, though
they assured one that the style was no
newer than the 15th-century. It was
fun to leave the airy quadrangle and go
and watch the garden-party on TV in the
dark Latin-Room, though one missed the
color and splendor of the academic-robes
that way.
The speaker at the Commemoration of
Benefactors was American professor
Frank de Vyver, and, being a professor
of economics, he talked mostly about
money. One of the most telling points
he made was that the graduates of the
University, whose fees paid only 20 per
cent, of its annual income, did very little
for it after they graduated. “We can’t
consider how they can re-dedicate them-
selves this day,” he said, “because they
don’t seem to have dedicated themselves
at all” —whereat many a guilty conscience
awakened among the graduates present.
☆ ☆ ☆
Hat-of-the-week was the little flat
burnt-straw boater worn by Mary-Jane
Bateman (nearly two years old now) to
the students’ Reunion at Sancta Sophia
College on Sunday. Its tiny bunches of
fruit were an almost irresistible tempta-
tion to the other littlies present, accord-
ing to her mother, Mrs. Tom Bateman,
who brought all six of her children to
the party.
☆ ft ☆
The annual meeting of the Girl Guides’
Association showed a very flourishing
state of affairs. Guiding in N.S.W. is
showing steady progress, new areas are
being opened up and some reopened,
while plans are in hand to take Guiding
into migrant-hostels and -centres and
industrial areas throughout the State. Mrs.
W. C. Wentworth, State Commissioner,
presided at the meeting, and Mrs. Edward
Chauvel, deputy State Commissioner, was
guest-speaker. At the Commissioners’
Conference that followed Mrs. Chauvel
announced that the World Chief Guide.
Lady Baden-Powell, will make a tour of
Australia and New Guinea early in 1958
and will spend two weeks in N.S.W. from
February 1 to 14. This visit will be the
climax to the Baden-Powell centenary,
to be celebrated throughout 1957.
☆☆ • ☆
A day in a beautiful garden at Castle
Hill will be the reward of those who
attend the garden-fete in aid of Dr. Barn-
ardo’s Homes in the grounds of Mrs.
Arnold Hirst’s home, Pine Ridge, Castle
Hill-road, Castle Hill, next Saturday
(October 27). It will go from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m., lunch and afternoon-tea will be
available, and children will be specially
catered for. Pine Ridge, by the way,
is one mile from Thompson’s Corner.
☆ ☆ ☆
Quite a few Sydneyites were missing
during the weekend, having hied up to
Scone for the wedding of Primrose White
to David Arnott. By all accounts it was
a charming wedding, taking place in the
family chapel at Belltrees, so that the
bride, third daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Jim White, walked on the arm of her
father from the homestead to the chapel.
She is the third in her family to make
this picturesque walk, her sisters, Mrs.
David Playfair and Mrs. William
Chandler, also having chosen the chapel
for their weddings. The bride’s dress of
white silk-taffeta was of traditional cut,
with a full skirt and a bustle-bow. Brides-
maids Julia Arnott and Susan Scales wore
blue taffeta ballerinas with lilac in their
hair. Bridegroom, David Arnott, eldest
son of the Ken Arnotts of Murrurundi,
was attended by Jack Robertson and Ted
White.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. A. L. Walters and Miss Margaret
Gillespie arranged an interesting after-
noon for the At Home of the Women’s
Auxiliary of the Royal Empire Society
during the week. Miss Nora Kelly spoke
on “Comedy in the Theatre,” with special
reference to the Restoration dramatists,
and Miss Lorelei Jones, soprano, sang
groups of songs in . keeping with the
subject-matter. Guests-of-honor were
Mrs. D. H. Harries, the wife of Rear-
Admiral D. H. Harries, and Mrs. Harald
Bowden. Lady Berryman introduced
Miss Kelly, Miss Jones and accompanist
Gwyn Aldis, and Mrs. J. C. Windeyer
returned a vote of thanks.
☆ ☆ ☆
There must be something about the
atmosphere of “Sailor Beware'” the lively
comedy at the Royal, for there have been
three marriages in the cast since the
season started in Australia. The latest
is that of Barbara St. Ledger (who plays
Daphne Pink) to Melbourne man David
Castle on Friday. The wedding-reception,
by the way, is to be held at the end of
the month, when Barbara’s parents, Mr.
and Mrs. S. R. Smith, will give a party at
Palm Beach.
CANBERRA
Fairy-lights and floodlit parade-grounds
gave a glamorous air to the Royal Mili-
tary College, Duntroon, for the annual
Sports Ball given by the officers for the
cadets and their friends. The pretty
frocks and long white gloves worn by the
cadets’ young partners added to a grace-
ful atmosphere in the ballroom. The
Olympic Games were the motif in the
decorations ; a model of the Olympic
Torch burned brightly in the foyer of
Anzac Hall and threw into relief
silhouettes of athletes on the walls.-
Lieut.-Colonel Daunt, recently back
from Japan, received the guests with Mrs.
T. A. Sutherland (one of the hostesses),
who wore a frock in green-and-gold
taffeta. The Commandant, Major-
General lan Campbell, was present with
Mrs. Campbell; her classical pale-jade
faille gown was cut on empire lines with,
small buttons down the straight, slim
skirt. Other guests were Colonel F. G.
Hassett and his wife, she wearing a
gown in bronze taffeta patterned in .black
velvet; Major John Stubbs and Mrs.
Stubbs, she in a frock of black embossed
net over an emerald-green underskirt;
British officer Major J. Paley, of the 4th
Queen's, Own Hussars; Dr. and Mrs.
J. R. Nimmo, Mrs. Nimmo in pale-grey
lace ; Professor and Mrs. H. S. Hodges;
and Professor and Mrs. D. E. Swan.
A delicious supper was served to the
500 guests in the cadets’ mess.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices: ■
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KllV mom SAFE!
/uPtiti/
SANDERS
«<
Correspondence,
statements. etc., tiled in the
* Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference al
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Price* and fuf»
tbcr information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing A genu —
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
»*sktl Boot Co. liulO
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTft WALES— In Divorce.
TO AUGUSTINE JOHN DAVY late of
14 Ocean Street Woollahra. —TAKE
NOTICE that FRIEDA TRENERRY
DAVY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3480 of 1960 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 28th December 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from G. D. CAMPBELL & CO.,
Solicitors, 92 'Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE "SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOUGLAS ALEXANDER TAYLOR
late of Yanco in the State of New-
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDITH TAYLOR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1615 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 19th day of
December 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from SYDNEY S.
MITCHELL, ESQ., Solicitor, of Hunter
Street, Newcastle West, or his Svdnev
Agents. MESSRS. M. A. MURRAY it
WELLER, Solicitors, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
FLY FAST TO
on the Kangaroo Koute
rsANuun
or holiday
anywhere
on the way/
r pHE choice of seven services a week to London and
Europe is yours on the Qantas-8.0.A.C. “Kangaroo”
Route. Travel fast and direct if you’re going on business.
Take a leisurely stop-over trip if you’re going for fun.
Spend time, if you wish, in Singapore or Colombo, Bom-
bay or Cairo. Branch off at Rome, at no extra cost, and
take in the cities of the Old World you’ve long wanted to see.
You’ll fly in mighty, luxurious Super-G Constellations or
Constellations. Sleeperchairs or slumberettes for all First Class
passengers on the “Kangaroo” Route, or you may travel
Tourist Service (at a saving of 27%). Whichever you pre-
fer, you’ll find that either costs a lot less than you think !
Fly to London and Europe. You’ll have time to see more
and do more on the way, and when you get there.
Talk to your Travel Agent. He will give you the facts
and the figures and make all arrangements for you without
cost or obligation.
QANTAS
IN
PARTNERSHIP
WITH
BOAC
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. (INC. IN Q’LAND,
IN PARTNERSHIP WITH 8.0.A.C.
Q 22.82.66
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Bus Stop”
Doris Fitton's Independent,
which, if not quite the oldest
repertory theatre in Australia,
is probably the most dis-
tinguished, made this comedy by
William Inge its first professional
production —after carrying the
amateur flag for more than 25
years, Miss Fitton and her
directors have decided to try
the theatre on a more-or-less
professional basis, playing six
nights a week instead of three
as previously.
As part of its policy of
encouraging Australian theatre
the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
has kicked-in with £5OO towards
the expenses of the new policy
—an appropriate and well-
merited gesture.
Public support will, of course,
decide the issue, and a lot of
repertory groups could tell
stories about that. Still, anyone
who has made a habit of taking-
in the Independent regularly is
that much richer for it, and it
will be a sad admission on
public taste and intelligence if a
theatre with the size, record and
standards of the Independent
can’t fill itself six nights a week.
Inge’s comedy—a light one but
not without a measure of percep-
tion—is about a nightclub popsie
and a. young rancher who have
somewhat different ideas about
their responsibilities after spend-
ing a night together.
The girl regards these inter-
ludes as the sideline pleasantries
of business, and no strings
attached, but the young man —
“enough of a virgin for both of
them” —not only expects that
such things should lead inevi-
tably to the altar, but is enthusi-
astically anxious that, in this case,
they will. His vigorous attempts
to cart the girl back to his ranch
have as much subtlety as he
might use in throwing and brand-
ing a steer and more than confirm
her reluctance to shut herself
away with him among his cattle.
The story is worked out in
Grace’s Diner, an occasional
rest-stop for tourist-buses, when
the bus carrying the young chap
and his offsider and the girl he
has more-or-less abducted is
snowbound for the night.
Mr. Inge populates and
animates his situation with Grace
herself, whose curiosity about
bus-drivers is satisfied in the
course of the evening; with a
Samson-like sheriff who instructs
the young rancher in some of
the subtleties of life by the un-
subtle method of beating the ears
off him ; and with a drunken
professor of philosophy who
gets ideas about the girl who
helps around the diner.
The professor hasn’t much
bearing on the main thread of
the story, but philosophers are
wonderful devices through which
playwrights can express them-
selves, and drunken philosophers
are, of course, the last word in
such conveniences. In this case,
the professor is also the vehicle
for the best performance in the
play—from Edward Howell, who
puts over the character’s tangled
and tortured mind with a wealth
of detail and sensitivity.
Harp McGuire plays the
young rancher with a lot of
style and gusto, and Noella
Masson the shallow-headed
popsie—both contrive rather well
to show the glimmerings of
deeper feeling breaking through
their respective veneers.
Bonnie Walker plays Grace
with a little too much caricature,
Tanya Halesworth gives a
sensitive touch to the girl about
the place, Fredric Abbott makes
an iron-fisted apostle of the
sheriff, and John Bluthal and
Brian Anderson are well up to
the mark as the bus-driver and
ranch-foreman respectively.
Miss Fitton’s production is
brisk and to the point and
without a sag from start to
finish.
Stanley Clarkson
Melbourne Town Hall’s 1956
subscription concerts ended in
a blaze of glory, Stanley Clarkson
being the sole cause of the con-
flagration. His triumphant bass
rang through Prince Gremin’s
aria from Tschaikowsky’s
“Eugeh Onegin” ; Simon Bocca-
negra’s aria, “Weary and Worn
with Suffering,” from Verdi’s
opera of that name; “She Has
No Love for Me,” from the
same composer’s “Don Carlos” ;
and the Slander Song from “The
Barber” of Rossini.
Such rich, warm, majestic
singing hasn’t been heard in
Melbourne for a long time, and
it was a good augury for the
success of the Mozart season that
the reason for Mr. Clarkson’s
presence in the Town Hall was
his engagement to sing at Her
Majesty’s in the Mozartian cycle.
♦I« «£♦ «J«
“Women of Twilight”
The problem in this play by
Sylvia Raymond, put on by
Melbourne National Theatre, is
an old one —that of unmarried
mothers who are forced to have
their babies in a squalid house
near London run by a none-too-
scrupulous woman. One woman
has been deserted by her lover,
another doesn’t know who her
lover was, another is the adoring
mistress of a man sentenced to
death for a triple murder,
another is a modern intellectual
who wants a baby but doesn’t
want a husband with it, and
another is an ament.
There is some delicacy of feel-
ing in the first act where all
these unfortunate creatures are
thrown holus-bolus . info the
clutches of Mrs. Alistair the
“Might as Well face it, Ferd — it's like television, it's
coming to STAY.”
female harpy who pretends to
want to help them, but after the
first act the thing becomes
utterly commonplace.
Mrs. Alistair knocks the
ament’s baby on the head and
buries it in the garden, allows
another baby to die of malnutri-
tion and knocks down a preg-
nant mother and leaves her to
die because she has extracted
from the ament the story of
the murder of her baby. No
doufit there are people who do
such things, but the author fails
completely to give any explana-
tion fdr the female ogre’s
abnormal behavior. All that is
left is the stock villainess of
melodrama.
Noel Byrne, Shirley Young,
Joy Grisold, Pauline Newton,
Wynne Austin, Joan Mac-
Donald and others wasted a
remarkable amount of talent on
the production.
♦♦♦
Noel Melvin said Mary Blake
Singing of very good standard
was maintained by these two
artists in the joint recital they
gave at the Cammeray (Sydney)
Music Group’s concert.
Melvin, this year’s Mobil
Quest winner, used his excep-
tional bass-baritone to fine effect
in a little-heard Handel operatic
aria, “Idle Pageants of Death,”
with suitable dark coloring in the
low register. In Scarlatti’s
“Loving I Borrow” he whittled-
away his tone with admirable
judgment to capture the essence
of 18th-century delicacy. “The
Wise Sailor Steering” was
treated without resort to any
forced “rollicking,” and Cyril
Scott's “Lord Randall” was a
powerful rendering of one of
the finest border-ballads ever
written.
Mary Blake, who uses her rich
mezzo-contralto with imagina-
tion and sings with complete
relaxation, sang Brahms’s “Ever
Lightly Grows My Slumber”
with attractive phrasing and
legato passages of beauty. The
same composer’s “The Message”
had suitable undertones of
dramatic urgency, and his “The
Rose and the Maiden” was sung
with feeling. “I Don’t Feel No
Ways Tired” demonstrated Miss
Blake’s flair for cheerful negro-
spirituals. The delicate traceries
of Professor Charles Lambie’s
“Sun and Cloud” were beauti-
fully expressed.
Joan Allen accompanied the
singers with discretion and, in
solo work, skipped nimbly over
the light frivolities of Scarlatti’s
“Pastorale and Capriccio,”
although she found the brilliant
swirlings of Liszt’s “Rigoletto”
paraphrase rather beyond her
capacity.
Summer School of Drama
The Arts Council of Aus-
tralia will hold its first summer
school of drama for three
sessions daily from December
14-19 at the Wallace Theatre at
Sydney University.
A study will be made of
acting and production by school-
director Geoffrey Thomas, and
special speakers will include
John Sumner, general-manager
of the Elizabethan Theatre,
and Robert Quentin, general-
manager of the Australian Opera
Company.
Diction will be dealt with by
Dorothy Helmrich, mime and
movement by Leila Blake, make-
up by Dorothy Dunckley and
design by Robin Lovejoy.
*> *2>
“Don Giovanni”
Well sung, strenuously acted,
and with many good scenes, the
Australian Opera Company's
“Don Giovanni” in Brisbane yet
missed fire on a number of
counts. Some of the principal
singers were unsettled in their
conceptions of their roles, and
the element of high comecjy was
missing.
To begin with, the essential
relationship between Don
Giovanni and Leporello was
missed completely. Instead of
being master and servant in a
completely aristocratic society,
this production let them behave
like old drinking-partners.
Leporello may share some of his
master’s escapades, but the Don
should hardly treat him as a
social equal. Keith Nielson
overplayed Leporello with such
gusto that he reduced the Don in
dramatic stature, but his singing
was most enjoyable and the
Catalogue aria highly amusing.
Some of Nielson’s vivacity
would have better suited John
Shaw’s portrait of the Don.
Shaw is always a commanding
figure on stage, but his Don
(Continued on page 30)


The Time of the Peaock
By MENA ABDULLAH and RAY MATHEW
WHEN I was little every-
thing was wonderful;
the world was our
farm and we were all
loved. Rashida and Lai and I,
Father and our mother, Ama:
we loved one another and every-
thing turned to good.
I remember in autumn, how
we burned the great baskets of
leaves by the Gwydir and
watched the fifes burning in the
river while Ama told us stories
of Krishna the flute-player and
his moving mountains. And
when the fires had gone down
and the stories were alive in our
heads we threw cobs of corn into
the fires and cooked them. One
for each of us—Rashida and Lai
and me, Father and our mother.
Winter I remember, when the
frost bit and stung and the wind
pulled our hair. At night by the
fire, in the warm of the house,
we could hear the dingoes
howling.
Then, it was spring and the
good year was born again. The
sticks of the jasmine-vine covered
themselves with flowers.
One spring I remember was
the time of the peacock when 1
learnt the word secret and began
to grow up. After that spring
everything somehow was differ-
ent, was older. I was not little
any more, and the baby had
come.
I had just learnt to count. I
thought I could count anything.
I counted fingers and toes, the
steps and the windows, even the
hills. But this day
in spring the hills
were wrong.
There should
have been five.
I knew that there
should have been
five. I counted
them over and
over. “Ek, do, tin,
panch.” But it was
no good. There was
one too many, a
strange hill, a left-
over. It looked
familiar, and I
knew it, but it made more than
five and worried me. I thought
of Krishna and the mountains
that moved to protect the cow-
herds, the travellers lost because
of them, and I was frightened
because it seemed to me that our
hills had moved, too.
I ran through the house and
out into the garden to tell Ama
the thing that Krishna had done
and to ask how we could please
him. But when I saw her I
forgot all about it; I was that
young. I just stopped and
jumped, up and down.
CHE was standing there, in her
own garden, the one with
the Indian flowers, her own
little walled-in country. Her
hands were joined together in
front of her face, and her lips
were moving.
On the ground, in front of the
Kashmiri rose-bush, in front of
the tuberoses, in front of the
pomegranate-tree, she had placed
little bowls of shining milk. I
jumped to see them. Now I
knew why I was running all the
time and skipping, why I wanted
to sing out, and to count every-
thing in the world.
“It is spring,” I shouted to
Ama. “Not nearly-spring! Not
almost-spring! But really-
spring!
“Will the baby come soon?”
I asked her. “Soon?”
“Soon, Impatience, soon.”
I laughed at her and jumped
up and clapped my hands to-
gether over the top of my head.
“I am as big as that,” I said. “I
can do anything.” And I hopped
on one leg to the end of the
garden where the peacock lived.
“Shah-Jehan!” I said to him :
that was his name. “It is spring
and the baby is coming, pretty
Shah-Jehan.” But he didn’t seem
interested. “Silly old Shah-
Jehan,” I said. “Don’t you know
anything? I can count ten.”
He went on staring his goldy
eye at me. He was a silly bird.
Why, he had to stay in the
garden all day, away from the
rooster. He couldn’t run every-
where the way that I could. He
couldn’t do anything.
“Open your tail,” I told him.
“Go on, open your tail.”
And we went on staring at one
another till I felt sad.
“Rashida is right,” I said to
him. “You will never open your
tail like the bird on the fan. But
why don’t you try? Please,
pretty Shah-Jehan.”
But he just went on staring as
though he would never open his
tail, and while I looked at him
sadly I remembered how he had
come to us.
He could lord it now. and
strut in the safety of the garden,
but I could remember how the
Lascar brought him to the farm,
in a bag, like a cabbage, with his
feathers drooping and his white
tail dirty.
The Lascar came to the farm,
a seaman on the land, a dark
face in a white country. How he
smiled when he saw us —Rashida
and me swinging on the gate.
How he chattered to Ama and
made her laugh and cry. How
he had shouted about the curries
that she gave him.
And when it was time to go,
with two basins of curry tied up
in cloth and packed in his bag,
he gave the bird to Ama, gave it
to her while she said nothing, not
even thank-you. She only looked
at him. *
“What is it?” we said as soon
as he was far enough away.
“What sort of bird?”
“It is a peaccock,” said Ama,
very softly. “He has come to us
from India.”
“It is not like the peacock on
your Kashmiri fan,” I said. “It
is only a sort of white.”
“The peacock on the fan is
green and blue and gold and has
a tail like a fan,” said Rashida.
“This is not a peacock at all.
Anyone can see that.”
“Rashida,” said Ama, “Rash-
ida ! The eldest must not be too
clever. He is a white peacock.
He is too young to open his tail.
He is a peacock from India.”
“Ama,” I said, “make him,
make him open his tail.”
“I do not think,” she said, “I
do not think he will ever open
his tail in this country.”
“No,” said Father that night,
“he will never open his tail in
Australia.”
“No,” said Uncle Seyed next
morning, “he will never open his
tail without a hen-bird near.”
"DUT we had watched him,
" Rashida and Lai and I;
had watched him for days and
days until we had grown tired of
watching and he had grown sleek
and shiny and had found his
place in the garden.
“Won’t you ever open your
tail?” I asked him again. “Not
now that it’s spring?”
But he wouldn’t even try, not
even try to look interested, so I
went away from him and looked
for someone to talk to.
The nurse-lady, who was there
to help Ama and who was pink,
like an apple and almost as
round, was working in the
kitchen.
“The baby is coming soon,” I
told her. “Now that it’s spring.”
“Go on with you,” she
laughed. “Go on.”
So I did, until I found Rashida
sitting in a window-sill with a
book in front of her. It was the
nurse-lady’s baby-book.
“What are you doing?”
“I am reading,” she said.
“This is the baby-book. I am
reading how to look after the
baby.”
“You can’t read,” I said. “You
know you can’t read.”
Rashida refused to answer.
She just went on staring at the
book, turning pages.
“But you can’t read!” 1
shouted at her. “You can’t.”
She finished running her eye
down the page.
“I am not reading words,” she
said. J T know what the book
tells. I am reading things.”
“But you know, you know you
can’t read.”
I stamped away from her,
cranky as anything, out of the
house, past the window where
Rashida was sitting so cleverly,
down to the vegetable-patch
where I could see Lai. He was
digging with a trowel.
“What are you doing?” I said,
not very pleasantly.
“I am digging,” said Lai. “I
am making a garden for my new
baby-brother.”
“How did you know? How
did you all know? I was going
to tell you.” I was almost cry-
ing. “Anyway,” I said, “it might
not be a brother.”
“Oh, yes, it will,” said Lai.
“We have girls.”
“I’ll dig, too,” I said, laugh-
ing, suddenly happy again. “I’ll
help you. We’ll make a big
one.”
“Digging is man’s work,” said
Lai. “I’m a man. You’re a girl."
“You’re a baby,” I said.
“You’re only four.”
And I threw some dirt at him,
and went away.
■pATHER was making a basket
of sticks from the plum-tree.
He used to put two crossed
sticks on the ground, squat in
the middle of them and weave
other sticks in and out of them
until a basket had grown up
around him. All I could see were
his shoulders and the back of his
turban as I crept up behind him,
to surprise him.
But he was not surprised. “I
knew it would be you,” he said.
I scowled at him then, but he
only laughed the way that he
always did.
“Father,” I began in a ques-
tioning voice that made him
groan. Already I was called the
Australian-one, the questioner.
“Father,” I said, “why do pea-
cocks have beautiful tails?”
He tugged at his beard. “Their
feet are ugly,” he said. “Allah
has given them tails so that no
one will look at their feet.”
“But Shah-Jehan,” I said, and
Father bent his head down over
his weaving, “everyone looks at
his feet. His tail never opens.”
“Yes,” said Father definitely,
as though that explained every-
thing, and I began to cry: it was
that sort of day, laughter and
tears. I suppose it was the first
day of spring.
“What is it, what is it?” said
Father.
“Everything,” I told him.
“Shah-Jehan won’t open his tail,
Rashida pretends she can read,
Lai won’t let me dig. I’m noth-
ing. And it’s spring; Ama is put-
ting out the milk for the snakes,
and I counted . . .” But Father


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” no. 28*
l
li w
n
m
The First Train out of Sydney
The first railway in New South Wales was
officially opened on September 26, 1855,
and ran between Sydney and Parramatta
Junction (now Granville).
If a series of unfortunate delays had not occurred,
N.S.W. might have had the honour of launching
Australia's first train service. As it was, trains
began to run in both South Australia and Victoria
in 1854, with the advantage slightly in favour of
the Port Elliot and Goolwa railway. South
Australia.
One reason for Sydney’s delay was lack of
iron rails. Wooden rails were put down at first,
but had to be replaced every two months because
of wear. Iron rails arrived from overseas in 1554.
Another cause of delay was an acute labour
shortage due to the gold rush.
Agitation to build a railway in N.S.W. had begun
as early as 1840, but it was not until 1848 that
the Legislative Council gave full support to the
plan.
In the latter year, the Sydney Tramroad and
Railway Company was formed. Its prospectus
stated that a preliminary survey had "satis-
factorily shown that there are no physical ob-
stacles of a nature calculated to prevent the
formation of a line of railway, at all events
through the counties of Cumberland, Camden
and Argyle,”
During 1849, detailed surveys were made to
Parramatta and Liverpool, and on July 3, 1850,
the first sod of the proposed rail link between
Sydney and Parramatta Junction was turned in
what was known as the Cleveland Paddock. It
was not long, however, before the company got
into difficulties and the project was eventually
taken over by the Government.
Nearly 14 miles of track were laid ; cost of
building and equipping the railway was £565,710*
There were six stations—at Sydney, Newtown,
Ashfield, Bur wood, Homebush and Parramatta
Junction.
On September 22, 1855, a train weighing 200
tons tested the line. Four days later, the railway
was officially opened. A report of the times said
that, although the day was "wet and gloomy,”
shops in the city were shut "from earliest dawn”
and thousands of people flocked to the Cleveland
Paddock ceremony—" Never was a greater con-
course assembled in New South Wales." The
Governor was received with a salute of 19 guns,
and another salute of 21 guns was fired when
the first train set out.
On that historic first day nearly 2,000 people
travelled between Sydney and Parramatta Junc-
tion. Six trips, taking 40 minutes each, were
run. The "Sydney Morning Herald" commented
“It is most gratifying to say that not a single
accident occurred.”
At the outset, the railway had four engines and
tenders and 32 carriages—eight first-class, 12
second-class and 12 third-class. All these
carriages were "built of teak and richly fitted up
in the most modern and fashionable style."
A contemporary print of the first trajn shows
an engine, a tender, three carriages and a guards
van. The first driver in N.S.W. was William
Sixsmith and William Webster was the first fire-
man.
According to a newspaper advertisement of
September 28, 1855, omnibuses were run (for a
time, anyway) to carry passengers free of charge
from Parramatta Junction into Parramatta and
from the Cleveland Paddock into the centre of
Sydney.
First in Quality First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
★ ★ ★
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine Spirits for 118 years
* Copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application to Tucker & Co. Pty. Limited
HF2B
was looking so serious that I
never told him what I had
counted.
“Listen,” he said. “You are
big now, Nimmi. I will tell you
a secret.”
“What is secret?”
He sighed. “It is what is ours,”
he, said. “Something we know
but do not tell, or share with one
person only in the world.”
“With me!” I begged. “With
me! ”
“Yes,” he said, “with you. But
no crying or being nothing. This
is to make you a grown-up
person.”
“Please,” I said to him,
“please.” And I loved him then
so much that I wanted to break
the cage of twigs and hold him.
“We are Muslims,” he said.
“But your mother has a mark
on her forehead that shows that
once she was not. She was a
Brahman and she believed all
the stories of Krishna and Siva.”
“I know that,” I said. “And
the hills”
“Monkey, quiet,” he com-
manded. “But now Ama is a
Muslim too. Only, she remem-
bers her old ways. And she puts
out the milk in the spring.”
“For the snakes,” I said. “So
they will love us, and leave us
from harm.”
“But there are no snakes in
the garden,” said Father.
“But they drink the milk,” 1
told him. “Ama says”
“If the milk were left, the
snakes would come,” said Father.
“And they must not come, be-
cause there is no honor in snakes.
They would strike you or Rash-
ida or little Lai or even Ama.
So—and this is the secret that
no one must know but you and
me—l go to the garden in the
night and empty the dishes
of milk. And this way I have
no worry and you have no harm
and Ama’s faith is not hurt. But
you must never tell.”
“Never-never tell,” I assured
him.
A LL that day I was kind to Lai,
who was only a baby and
not grown-up, and I held my
head up high in front of Rashida,
who was clever but had no secret.
All of that day I walked in a
glory, full of my secret. I even
felt cleverer than Ama, who knew
everything but must never, never
know this.-
She was working that after-
noon on her quilt. I looked at
the crochet-pictures in the little
squares of it.
“Here is a poinsettia,” I said.
“Yes,” said Ama. “And here
is”
“It’s Shah-Jehan! With his
tail open.”
“Yes,” said Ama. “So it is.
And here is a rose for the baby.”
“When will the baby come?”
I asked her. “Not soon, but
when?”
“Tonight, tomorrow night,”
said Ama, “the next.”
“Do babies always come at
night?”
“Mine, always,” said Ama.
“There is the dark and the wait-
ing, and then the sun on our
faces. And the scent of jasmine,
even here.” And she looked at
her garden.
“But, Ama”——
“No questions, Nimmi. My
head is buzzing. No questions
today.”
nrHAT night I heard a strange
noise, a harsh cry.
“Shah-Jehan!” I said. I
jumped out of bed and ran to
the window. I stood on a chair
and looked out to the garden.
It was moonlight, the moon so
big and low that I thought 1
could lean out, and touch it, and
there, looking' sad, and white as
frost in the moonlight, stood
Shah-Jehan.
“Shah-Jehan, little brother,” I
said to him, “you must not feel
about your feet. Think of your
tail, pretty one, your beautiful
tail.”
And then, as I was speaking,
he lifted his head and slowly,
slowly opened his tail, like a fan,
like a fan of lace that was as
white as the moon. Oh, Shah-
Jehan! it was as if you had come
from the moon.
My throat hurt, choked, so
that my breath caught and I shut
my eyes. When I opened them
it was all gone: the moon was
the moon and Shah-Jehan was a
milky-white bird with his tail
drooping and his head bent.
TN the morning the nurse-lady
woke us. “Get up,” she said.
“Guess what? In the night, a
sister! The dearest, sweetest,
baby sister . . . Now, up with
you!”
“No brother,” said Lai. “No
baby brother.”
We laughed at him, Rashida
and I, and ran to see the baby.
Ama was lying, very still and
small, in the big bed. Her long
plait of black hair stretched
across the big white pillow. The
baby was in the old cradle, and
we peered down at her. Her
tiny fists groped on the air
towards us.
But Lai would not look at her.
He climbed on to the bed and
crawled over to Ama. “No
boy,” he said sadly. “No boy
to play with.”
Ama stroked his hair. “My
son,” she said. “I am sorry,
little son.”
“Can we change her?” he said.
“For a boy?”
“She is a gift from Allah,” said
Ama. “You can never change
gifts.”
Father came in from the dairy.
His face a huge grin, he made a
chuckling noise over the cradle
and then sat on the bed.
“Missus,” he said in the queer
English that always made the
nurse-lady laugh, “this one little
fellow, eh?”
“Big,” said Ama. “Nine
pounds.” And the nurse-lady
nodded proudly.
“What wrong with this fel-
low?” said Father, scooping Lai
up in his arm. “What wrong
with you, eh?”
“No boy,” said Lai. “No boy
to talk to.”
“Ai! Ai! ” lamented Father,
trying to change his expression.
“Too many girls here,” he said.,
“Better we drown one. Which
one we drown, Lai? Which one,
eh?”
Rashida and I hurled ourselves
at him, squealing with delight.
“Not me! Not me!” we shouted
while the nurse-lady tried to
shush us.
“You are worse than the chil-
dren,” she said to Father. “Far
worse.”
But then she laughed, and we
all did. Even the baby made a
noise.
But what was the baby to be
called? We all talked about it.
Even Uncle Seyed came in and
leant on the door-post while
names were talked over and
over.
At last Father lifted the baby
up and looked into her big dark
• eyes.
“What was the name of your
sister?” he asked Uncle Seyed.
“The little one, who followed us
everywhere? The little one with
the beautiful eyes?”
“Jamila,” said Uncle Seyed.
“She was Jamila.”
So that was to be her first
, name, Jamila, after the little girl
who was alive in India when
Father was a boy and he and
Uncle Seyed had decided to
become friends like brothers.
And her second name was
Shahnaz, which means the
Heart’s Beloved.
AND then I remembered.
*** “Shah-Jehan,” I said. “He
can open his tail. I saw him last
night, when everyone was
asleep.”
“You couldn’t see in the
night,” said Rashida. “You
dreamt it, baby.”
“No, I didn’t. It was bright
moon.”
“You dreamt it, Nimmi,” said
Father. “A peacock wouldn’t
open his tail in this country.”
“I didn’t dream it,” I said in a
little voice that didn’t sound very
certain: Father was always right.
“I’ll count Jamila’s fingers,” I
said before Rashida could say
anything else about the peacock.
“Ek, do, tin, panch,” I began.
“You’ve left out cha,” said
Father.
“Oh, yes, I forgot. I forgot it.
Ek, do, tin, cha, panch. She has
five,” 1 said.
“Everyone has five,” said
Rashida.
“Show me,” said Lai.
And while Father and Ama
were showing him the baby’s
fingers and toes and telling him
how to count them, I crept out
on to the veranda where I could
see the hills,
I counted them quickly. “Ek,
do, tin, cha, panch.” There were
only five, not one left over. I
was so excited that I felt the
closing in my throat again.
“I didn’t dream it,” I said. “I
couldn’t dream the pain. I did
see it, I did. I have another secret
now. And only five hills. Ek,
do, tin, cha, panch.”
They never changed again. I
was grown-up.
THE WITNESS
Crowding down from the long defile they came,
Man, woman, child, hermaphrodite and god,
Shoulder to shoulder in their tongued confusion,
Scarce knowing that the very ground they trod
Was marked with spoor of legendary beasts —
Of centaur, fled here from reality,
Gryphon and wyvern, coming down to drink
At the bright pools of the locality,
And, curveting on that elastic turf,
Two slender and translucent unicorns
Who filing their hoof beats lightly to the wind
And tossed the sunlight on their single horns.
The vanguard cried their praise of this new land;
The leaders nodded gravely and they set
A tent-pole in its place; and overnight
Their settlement was sprawled out like a net
To catch the sweet green earth for ravishment.
Then, on the first day of the second week,
A rough-hewn plough, yoked to four slaves, was tried ;
But no voice of the valley was there to speak
(For all the beasts had fled from the range of arrow
And throwing-stick ) when the brown flesh was torn
From under grass, upturning the first sod,
Except one creature, crouched above its spawn.
So small it did not even have a name,
So pale that it could hardly be descried,
A nd yet it sang defiance while the earth
Lay dormant with the ploughshare in her side.
victoria.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
dSUIJJVAIV
turn!
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
'“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT ;
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES j
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
-
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
Signal 626
By COLIN MANN
NIGHT had taken the city
in its black cold hand.
Shapes of people were
hurrying past on the
footpath. Soon barmen would
be looking up at wrong clocks
everywhere and calling “Time.”
The car’s windows and wind-
screen were fogged with the
breath of the three men, inside,
eating their tea. On the back
seat, with newspaper spread on
his knee, the photographer
delicately ate a piece of fried
fish with his fingers. He finished
and wound down his window
and threw the papers in a little
ball into the gutter.
“Shut that bloody tent-flap!”
That was Bruce, the driver.
His forearms rested on the
steering-wheel. He carefully
explored a spring-roll. He had a
large belly, and claimed to have
been through two fortunes
putting it there. He was nearing
50, the oldest of the three.
The photographer took out a
stubby camel-hair brush and
started cleaning the lens of his
Speed Graphic. He was some-
where about half Bruce’s age,
and Bruce often called him “the
delinquent.” He took good
pictures, did Gordon Power, and
he consciously cultivated calm.
Gordon leaned forward and
tapped the driver on the
shoulder.
“Bruce,” he said, very
seriously, “I seem to be able to
remember the time when they
sent reporters out with us who
were able to get stories. None
of this sitting in the one place
night after night.”
“You’re quite right,” said
Bruce. “It’s gone to the dogs.
This fellow we’ve got now —
not worth a crumpet. Takes us
all the way out to Bankstown last
night and it turns out to be a
council-tip alight. Wouldn’t
know a story if it bit him.
Wouldn’t last two minutes if I
was running the show. Or I
might'give him a job at that —
running the lift. See? He’s not
saying anything. He’s guilty. He
knows it.”
The third man in the car,
on the front seat next to Bruce,
methodically screwed his sand-
wich-paper into a ball and tossed
it over his shoulder at the photo-
grapher.
“Give us a cigarette, Bruce,
and I’ll forgive you,” he said.
“Bots—he’s getting worse
every day.”
But the driver pushed the open
packet of cigarettes at the
reporter. The third man
was Clem Macleay,
youngish compared to
Bruce, skinny, and usually
worried-looking.
His shift in the car
started at 5 p.m. At
2 a.m. Bruce would drop
him at his home, take
the photographer to the
flats where he lived, and
then drive off to his own
home in a distant suburb.
Next night he would pick
them up at the office and start
again. The three of them had
Fridays and Saturdays off and
worked together for the other
five nights of the week.
It had been quiet, deadly quiet,
for more than three weeks. When
things were happening thick and
fast you did not have time to
wonder what the opposition
was doing. But shift after shift
they had sat and waited. There
had not been a story worth
writing, a picture worth taking,
or a place worth driving to.
Clem Macleay leaned forward
and looked at a dial on the
dashboard.
“Are we on the beam?” he
asked.
“Don’t you twiddle with
that!” said Bruce. “We’re right
on the beam. The coppers have
probably gone to sleep, too.”
“That’s on the cards. Look
outside. It’s starting to rain
again. That’s about all we
needed. It’ll mean nothing
worth while and a lot of little
accidents.”
That was usually true.
Criminals, like everyone else,
don’t like working in the wet.
Traffic-police and ambulance-
crews work harder than usual.
“Have any messages come
over, Bruce?” Clem asked him.
“There were a couple while
I was waiting for you two to
come down from the office.
She’s on the beam all right. In
the clear patch between the
static, just under the 10—see ...”
The radio, tuned to the police-
beam, gave two Morse dashes,
and then: “Message double-one-
five to cars and stations. Car
recovered. Charlie Nellie X-ray
four-one-four. Recovered in
Number 18 division. Reported
stolen on the twelfth ...” .
The message was repeated, and
then it was quiet again.
“What rhymes with ‘silver’?”
said Gordon in the back seat.
He had taken out a pencil and
a pad from the door pocket.
“Nothing,” said Clem. “How
long is this poem going to be
when you finish it?”
“I don’t know. I think I’m
only in the middle of it. It’s
cunning. I’ve put the name of
the girl in the middle of the line.
You can change the name with-
out mucking-up the poem.
Listen.
“Your eyes are like . . .
Your lips like . . .
Your breath like. . .”
“Are you going to read it out
or post it to her?” said Clem.
“I’m going to learn it off by
heart and then look into her
eyes and say it soulfully.”
“She’ll be sick all over you.”
“Is that right, that nothing
rhymes with silver?” said Bruce.
“It can’t be right,” the photo-
grapher said. “How do you get
on when you want to say ‘When
your hair has turned to silver’?”
“You put it in the middle of
the line like the sheila’s name.
You put something easy on the
end. Moon. Have you got moon
in it yet?”
“No.”
“Well, put it in.”
“Who’s writing this poem,
eh? You listen to your radios
and find us some work and leave
me to my art.”
A VOICE broke in on the
office-to-car radio, which
was separate from the police-
radio and filled the car’s boot
with about a hundredweight
of electrical gear. It directed
one of the other cars to go to
Mascot and pick up the social
reporter and photographer, who
had been meeting an overseas
plane.
Bruce worked his windscreen-
wiper for a moment, rubbed the
inside of the glass, squinted up at
the Railway clock and checked
it with his watch.
“Six-o’clock. Fancy having to
put up with you two for another
seven hours.”
“Shut up!”
“Yes, bag your head.”
“Thank you,” said Bruce, and
puffed contentedly at his
cigarette.
The police broke into the quiet
again : “Car 59, to the Oro Cafe,
Abercrombie-street. Trouble.
Information Redfern. Time 6.2.”
Bruce shook his head.
“Trouble, stolen cars, drunk
drivers—l’ve never known it so
quiet for years,” he said.
Clem lifted the handset off the
car-to-oflice radio.
“Have you given this a test?”
he asked.
“Yep. Give it a go, though.
They might have something that
end.”
Clem waited the 15 seconds
for the set to warm-up, and then
said: “Macleay to rounds. How
are things?”
He waited, and then repeated
it, before the answer came:
“Sorry, I was on a trunk-call.
There’s a bloke drowned at
Forbes. There’s nothing doing
in the city, though.”
“Thanks. Over and out.”
Clem put the handset back on
the hook . . .
“Where’s the cards, Bruce?”
Clem said.
“I’m not playing. You two
fleeced me last night. I’ll go
broke.”
“Matches, well.”
“A man would go broke even
playing you for matches. You’re
card-sharpers,”
But Bruce had the cards out
and dug in his fob-pocket. As
he shuffled, the police-radio
crackled and said: “Car 1. To
the Oro Cafe, Abercrombie-
street. Signal six-two-six. See
Car 59. Car 1? 0.K.? Let’s
know what the position is,
Car 1.”
Bruce threw the cards back
in the glove-box, kicked the
starter and slammed the car into
gear. He made a screaming turn
around in the broad road and
then sped off in the opposite
way to which they had been
facing.
“You can pack up your silver-
haired sheila,” said Clem.
The photographer was already
clipping the flashlight on the side
of his camera.
Clem had the handset off the
hook when the voice of the
cadet in the office said through
the radio: “Did you hear that
message, Mr. Macleay? Signal
six-two-six is murder, it says
here.”
“Thanks very much,” said
Clem. “'We’re on the way. I’ll
be out of the car when we get
there and it isn’t very far from
where we are. So from now on
would you take note of any
message they give about it? You
know, if they cordon-off any-
where or give a description of
who they’re after? Will you tell
the chief-of-staff what’s on? And
would you tell him I suggested
putting someone else on to watch
the round while we’re doing this
one? Over and out for a bit.”
“W hac k o she bumps! ”
muttered Bruce, as he slewed
around out of the street and
skidded on the wet tramlines.
He straightened the car on the
new tangent, and, after several
blocks, slid in behind the police-
car outside the Oro Cafe.
“I’ll come and have a sticky,”
said Bruce.
r F'HEY all got out of the car
and walked towards the knot
of people on the footpath.
Clem found they had arrived
before Car 1, the C. 1.8. detective-
car for the area. At this stage
the situation was in the hands
of two fairly young uniformed
men. That was all to the good
from Clem’s point of view.
He walked through the crowd
of quiet people ; and then looked
down.
Near his feet on the wet
asphalt was the dead man’s head.
The eyes were shut. The man’s
broad, six-foot body stretched
back towards the light of the
cafe windows. The rain had
eased, but drops of water were
gathered on the man’s curly
brown hair.
One of the constables told
Clem to move back, and told
all the others to get back, too.
“I’m from the ‘Chronicle,’ ”
said Clem. “Is he shot, or
stabbed, or what?”
“Well, I suppose you can stay,’ -
said the constable. “He’s shot.
Right through the heart. Look
at that.”
The constable lifted the dead


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to —
NAME . .
ADDRESS
!2 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 1 2/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
988
mmm
% mm.
REGISTERED
first
MORTGAGE
debenture
STOCK
7
o
pf ft annum
POR s
"ears
watomteeJ
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £39,000,000.
Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and
Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock-
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to—
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. & A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and Australia’s
Leading Hire Purchase Organisation—
-16.9.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART
man's shirt and looked,
fascinated, at the small red hole
in the chest.
“Anyone see it happen?” asked
Clem.
“No. No one saw anything.
No one heard anything that they
thought was a gun. Whoever did
it got away clean. You fellows
didn’t waste much time getting
here.”
“We were just parked round
the corner. We were thinking
how quiet it was.”
“It won’t be quiet here much
longer. It’ll be crawling with
dees pretty soon.”
“Do you know who he was?”
“We’ve got his driving-licence
and his union-pass. But the
relatives have to be notified
before we can give his name
out.”
“But we won’t be using it till
the morning,” said Clem. “You’ll
have notified them by then.”
“I suppose it’s all right—here.”
Clem copied the name and
address.
“Thanks,” he said. “See you
later.”
He noticed that someone had
put an old battered hat under the
dead man’s head. He walked
back to the car, got in and lifted
the handset. He waited for it
to wafm up. He noted old
Bruce standing quietly on the
fringe of the crowd with his
hands behind his back and a
cigarette dangling from the
corner of his mouth. The photo-
grapher, aiming from across the
street, let his first flash-bulb go,
and Clem could not see for a
moment.
“Macleay to rounds. Come in,
please.”
“Yes, we can hear you.” They
answered straight away.
“Put me on to the chief-of-
staff, please, and while I’m talk-
ing to him will you get someone
frorp the radio-newsroom to
come along for a flash?”
“Right. Here’s the chief-of-
staff coming up.”
“Hullo, Clem. What's in it?”
“Looks like a good one, Max.
Shot him through the heart and
got away. It sounds like one of
those that might last for a
couple of days. From what the
uniformed people tell me it’s
doubtful if they’ll get anyone
tonight. The dees are just
arriving now. Over.”
“If they get him and charge
him there won’t be much in
it for us, Clem. What do you
see in it if they don’t find him?
Over.”
“How’s space?”
“Loads of it.”
“Well, I haven’t got any
details at all yet, but you could
tell them to leave us a pretty
big hole. Over.”
“O.K. You want to speak to
the radio people—he’s putting
you through now, Clem.”
A click, and then: “What
have you got there, Clem? Is it
succulent?”
Clem told the radio-newswriter
what he knew.
“Have you got a name for
him? Over.”
“Yes, but you can’t have it yet.
He’s a laborer, about thirty-five
old,” said Clem.
“Thank you. Let’s know when
you can give him a name.”
“Are the indigestion people
still sponsoring your flashes?”
“They are, Clem.”
“It ought to sound real good.
Over and out now.”
/'''LEM hung-up and got back
out of the car. Three big
detectives from Car 1 had
shooed away the people onto the
opposite footpath. One of the
detectives had a notebook out
and was copying details from the
dead man’s driving-licence and
other papers. The second was
talking to one of the constables,
who handed him the articles
from the dead man’s pockets—a
tote-ticket with a phone-number
scribbled on the back, a packet
of cigarettes, matches, a key-
ring, three £l-notes, and a little
silver.
The third was examining the
body. He looked up at Clem and
nodded, and went on with his
job. He had found a second
bullet-hole in the man’s stomach,
and held his torch close to it.
He pressed the flesh with his
fingers, and Clem could see that
the grey bullet had gone just
under the skin. It had hardly
broken the surface. But the
other had pierced the man’s
heart and stopped his life so
quickly that there was only a
speck of blood.
The detective beckoned one of
the uniformed men, took some-
thing from him and held it under
his torch.
Clem saw it was a complete
pistol-bullet. As the detective
turned it over in the of his
torch Clem noticed the mark of
the firing-pin on the percussion-
cap.
“Thirty-two?” Clem asked.
The detective nodded.
“Are the three the same?
Same gun?” Another nod.
“Looks that way,” said the
detective.
Clem thought that over. Three
bullets from one gun. One goes
all the way. One goes hardly any
distance. One doesn’t go at all.
So it’s old, faulty ammunition.
The sort that was available on
the black where people went who
couldn’t go openly into a
gunsmith’s.
It could be a gang-shooting,
then. If it was, it was probable
that the dead man had been a
criminal, too. Criminals were
generally nervous people who
would go out of their way to
avoid attracting attention with
a shooting, except when shoot-
ing one of their own. And when
it was done, usually, no one saw
or heard anything. That was
true in this case.
The detective stood up from
the body and went over to his
car, and Clem went with him.
He listened while the detective
called the police radio-station
and asked them to send the
Scientific Squad.
Then he said to the detective:
“Has he got a record?”
The detective nodded.
“Everything bar jay-walking,
Clem. Listen. I don’t want you
to say anything about that
unexploded cartridge. It might
be an idea to forget that.”
“Sure,” said Clem. “Only I
was thinking of hanging my story
around it. Would it be all right
if I didn’t give any indication
what it was? Make a mystery
out of it?”
“I suppose so. It’s better for
us than saying we haven’t got a
clue ” . •
“Does the whole bullet tell you
much more than the slugs you
set out of him?”
° “Tells us a lot more if we
can get hold of the gun.”
“Where do you go from
here?” said Clem.
“We’ll search around the
neighborhood, but that’ll do a
fat lot of good. We’ll start
rounding-up his crowd and go
through the lot of them. That’ll
take a few days, but it’ll only be
a matter of time.”
“You don’t think there’s any
chance of your picking him up
and charging him tonight?”
Clem said.
“Not a bolter’s hope, the way
it looks from here. He did a
workmanlike job. He got clean
away. Where would you start
looking?”
Clem nodded.
“I only asked because it
makes a lot of difference on what
we can write. It looks like we
can give it a good run.”
“Pictures and all. X marks
the spot,” said the detective.
“See you later. I’m busy.”
The detective began talking
again to the police radio-station.
He asked for another car of men
to make the house-to-house
survey. He gave a message to
be relayed by phone to the
branch which would make up a
list of all the dead man’s likely
associates.
TN the Oro Cafe Clem spoke
to the manager, a Greek. The
man was shaking and drinking
brandy out of a tumbler.
“My heart,” he said. “It’s no
good. JMs bad business is no
“Was he inside here at all?”
in about Hv,
o’clock,” said the Greek. “I
know that because I was getting
wild, he was sitting there so
long with only tea and toast,
He sat theie right through
dinner. It’s not a big place.
But I get customers. And there
were people who could have sat
down there. I’m sorry I was
wild now. Poor fella. He’s dead,
And only tea and toast.”
“Did you hear anything at
all?” asked Clem.
“I thought it was crackers like
I told the other policeman. The
kids. They been letting oit
crackers in the street for a
week now. Bang bang all the
time. It sounded like that. The
door was shut. I didnt see any-
thing. I didn’t look. I told
the other policeman. Didn t he
tell you what I’m saying?”
“I’m not a policeman,
said Clem. “I’m from the
‘Chronicle. ”
“Oh, gee,” said the Greek,
“This is bad business. You going
to say my cafe? This is a nice
place.”
“I h a /e to say where it
happened. ,
“But she didnt happen in
here. She happened in the
street.”
“I’ll make that clear, said
Clem.
Outside in the street again
Ctem noticed that the opposition
had arrived. I hey were battling,
f° r an inspector had come to take
charge, and it meant that t e
other police would avoid talking
to the press while he was there,
Arthur Suich, his opposite-
number on the Mail, waved
him over.
, “How long have you been
here he asked Clem,
Well, as a matter of fact we
? a u me ft© .body. We did the
” Y
Th Su f ch grinned .? And ' what did
y° u us fl e «* him - ,he ‘ChromcleV
we used a ,3Z
«. :+ «t*
Come off it, s d
( Continued on next page )
JANE AUSTEN: MANSFIELD PARK
All that twittering
of speech impeccable,
of dress immaculate and long grey lowering afternoons;
interminable frittering,
innocuous pursuits, even the wit
emasculated till there is only edge to it —
frilled edge !
so that we find
the twilit room and twilit mind
all but unbearable, and burn
to plunge out to the rhythm of mad hooves through flying
mire,
fling open the. heavy oaken door
into a steaming taproom, hovering
just inside, grateful for greeting in the burring speech
of a broad laborer; to cross the muddy floor
and watch, intent, while the landlord draws a jug
that foams, and catch a roar
shaking the rafters with some jest
while ready laughter turns to riotous; to hear
the slow-spoken snarling drawl that yields
essence of dripping boughs and fields
lying since red autumn fallow to
the sad withdrawn silver and chilly moon;
speech that is blent
with cider and the pollen-scent
of hollyhocks by mossy walls, and windburnt faces
and the warm bawdiness of hard embraces
under a hedge ...
None of this you knew,
Jane, With your braided hair and snowy fingers.
A fragrance lingers
about your name ; the very needle quivers
still in the ghost of framed embroidery.
Thinly the spinet wavers
in balanced phrases of triplets, duplets, frisky dotted quavers
out of long silence ...
You were frail and sweet, wistful and tender,
but these four-hundred pages
rouse in us pallid rages,
lugging one’s soul exhausted to the doorway, whence it
wavers
into the night on a gigantic bender.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


NOWi.
picture time
m
y : sm :
l i
>MHei
mum
m
m
Kodak Film
gets the picture!
&
OMI
K%!?? S
KSIO
KODAK DIALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD. Branches in all States
Divorce Notice
TO MICHAEL EDWARD CROPPER
address unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife MARGARET MAY CROPPER
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of deser-
tion by you for a continuous period of
three years or more. IF you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within FORTY
clear days from the date of this publica-
tion In default of your so doing the
cause may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED this
11th day of October, 1956. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, of 38 Pad-
bury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth,
Western Australia, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throvghovt
the World.
must have been a .22 with a hole
that small. Anyway, I’ll see you
a bit later. We have to catch-up.
We were at Mosman on a damn’
false-alarm.”
Clem left him. He saw Gordon
the photographer beckoning
frantically by jerking his head.
When he went over Gordon
told him: “I’ve been talking to
a woman who was there when
he died. He collapsed in her
arms. She was walking along
and heard the shots just before
she came around the corner.’’
“Where is she?”
“Over there at that house.”
“Thanks.”
Clem went over. The woman
was gaunt-looking and untidy.
She told him it was true. Had
she told the police? Yes. But
they hadn’t seemed terribly
interested.
What had happened?
“Well,” she said, “I came
around the corner and there he
was. He was on his knees on
the footpath. I ran to him and
supported his head.”
Had there been anyone else
around, anyone at all in the
street? No.
Did the man say anything
before he died?
“Yes. He muttered ‘Clare’ over
and over. . . The photographer
took my picture. Will that be
m the paper?”
“Possibly,” said Clem. “Thank
you for what you told me.”
He thought, as he walked back
across the street, of the bullet
that had cut otf the life so
quickly that there was hardly a
drop of blood on the shirt. Well,
if she wanted the victim kneeling,
and then expiring in her arms,
what business was that of his?
He told Gordon when he
came up to him: “She's got it
balled-up, but thanks all the
same. What about you putting
the ‘Mail’ onto her, eh?”
Gordon’s eyes glinted. He
wandered across to the ‘Mail’
photographer and started talking
to him quietly.
Clem spoke to a few
bystanders. Soon he found he
had about all he needed. He
walked over to Bruce.
jDRUCE was watching the
Scientific Squad men setting
up their camera tripod and
making measurements with a
steel-tape. There were now Car
59, Car 1, the grey Scientific
truck, the inspector’s car, the
“Chronicle’s” car, and the
“Mail’s,” jammed around the
little cafd.
On a balcony opposite, a white-
haired old lady was sipping tea
with her family. They stood
along the railing, missing
nothing.
“Good-day, maestro,” said
Bruce. “My friend here owns
the hat.”
Clem looked at the shabby
man, who had watery eyes, then
down at the dead man’s head,
which still lay on the hat.
“You’d think they’d take him
away,” said the shabby man,
“instead of letting him lie there
in the wet.”
.* “They’ve got to make tests
and take photos,” said Clem.
“Did you know him?”
“He was my friend,” said the
shabby man. “I was drinking
with him after lunch. Look at
him now.”
“Did he have much to drink?”
“No. And don’t you go saying
anything like that about him.
Whatever you say give him a
fair go, mate. Understand? He
was my friend.”
“How long did you know
him?”
“I knew him in the bush and
I knew him here. Ten years—
fifteen years. What’s it matter?
He was a good mate.”
“Was he married?”
“ He was a good husband and
father. Don’t you fellows go
down there worrying his wife,
either.”
“How many children?”
“He has a couple of kids.
Boys. About eight and ten.”
“Did you see anything or
hear the shots?”
“I was home when it
happened. I got here after the
coppers. They let me put my
hat under him. If I’d had a coat
l’d’ve put that over him, too.”
Clem left him and went over
to the detective he had spoken
to before.
“How’s it coming along?”
“We’re doing all right. But
tell that bloody photographer if
he keeps letting that thing olf
in my eyes I’ll skin him.”
“That’s not my bloke. He’s
finished,” said Clem.
Across the street the “Mail”
was photographing the woman
who said she’d held the dying
man. Clem could see she was
showing her teeth.
“Only one thing, and then
I’ll leave you,” he told the
detective. “Do you know if this
bloke was married?”
“He was. Separated. Left her
with two kids to bring up.
They’ve got a great future.”
“O.K. See you some more.”
Clem called Gordon the
photographer and got back into
the car. Bruce was sitting behind
the wheel and pushed an open
packet of cigarettes across.
Clem opened the glove-box,
got out the road-guide and used
it as a backing for his wad of
copy-paper. He scribbled over
a page, screwed it up, and then
started writing again more surely.
He wrote for a long time
before he lifted the handset and
called the office.
“Chief-of-staff and tfien the
copy-takers,” he said.
“What’s it like, Clem?” the
chief-of-staff wanted to know
when he came on the line.
“Couple of columns. They
say there’s no hope of getting
anyone tonight. The victim is a
hood. Over.”
“I see. What are the pictures
like? We want some broad- and
some narrow-shape to suit the
page-layout Has he got some
good ones? Over.”
“Tell him the answer is in the
negative,” said Gordon.
“He wouldn’t see the point,”
said Clem. Then, into the hand-
set? “They ought to be good
pictures, he says, Max. Over.”
“Well, fire away, Clem.
You’re on to the copy-desk.”
! He dictated slowly. After a
factual introduction, the angle of
the story was the unexploded
bullet which he cloaked with a
curtain of words.
He said that the gunman had
made one mistake. He had left
something at the scene of the
crime as identifiable in certain
circumstances as a visiting-card.
The mistake was being scrutin-
ised under a microscope at the
C. 1.8. before the body had been
taken to the morgue. Clem
played that theme out, then
described the cafe and the street
scene, and then got on to the
quotes. He quoted the shabby
man at length. He rounded the
story off' with the police-activities
and a list of some of the senior
men working on the case.
“That’s it for now,” he told the
copy-taker.
A S he put the handset back on
the hook they were pulling
into the car-dock back at the
office. A copy-boy from Pic-
torial was waiting. He took
Gordon’s magazine of -exposed
negatives and handed him a
freshly-loaded one.
Bruce reversed the car. About
10-minutes later he eased into
a space outside a coffee-shop at
King’s Cross. The three went
inside.
They sipped their coffee.
Gordon took out a pencil and
pretended to be taking notes as
he asked Bruce: “Tell me, sir, to
what do you attribute your
longevity? Is it porridge in the
morning, porridge for dinner,
porridge for tea?”
“You’re wrong,” said Bruce, in
the squeaky voice of the very
old. “You’re dead wrong, young
fellow —it’s sex, in the morning,
afternoon and evening.”
“And how old are you, sir,
one-hundred-and-five? ”
“Just twenty-two,” said Bruce,
squeaking like Methuselah.
The waitress, who knew them,
and who stood-by while they
spoke the lines, ran giggling to
the kitchen.
“Did you recite your poem
to that sheila you found for me
at the murder?” Clem asked.
“No —she wasn’t the type at
all. She must have been off her
nut. Why would she say a thing
like that?”
“She probably used to be a
reporter,” said Bruce. “Did you
hear the bulldust our friend was
putting over with the story?
They pay him for it, you know.
Murderer leaving something at
the scene of the crime. What did
he leave there, you liar?”
“1 ain’t saying,” said Clem.
“A footprint, I suppose.”
“A handkerchief?” said
Gordon.
“Could have been,” said
Clem.
“I’ll bet she was a journalist.
Retired when they woke up to
her.”
“My public,” said Clem.
As he drank his coffee, he
wondered how the “Mail” was
getting on. They’d get the Greek.
They wouldn’t get the un-
exploded cartridge. They might
get the man with the hat. In
his way he’d been a liar, too:
“A good husband and father.”
And then the detective: “Left
her with two kids to bring up.”
That woman, the wife of the
dead man and the mother of
those kids. She’d be the one to
get. She was the real story.
Clem thought about it. Then
he felt tired. He ordered another
cup of coffee instead.


What a Chew Dees to You!
EIGHTY BAGS
OF BETELNUT
By OLAF RUHEN
THERE are unforgettable
evenings in tropic seas,
when the full moon
climbs the eastern sky
and the last remnant of the
Trades sets the fronds of the
coconut chattering and the she-
oak-needles sighing; when the
muted sounds of laughter and
singing reach out to the schooner
from the cooking-fires ashore ;
when the beetlelike phosphorus-
fish leave their ribbons of burn-
ing light, inch-wide and fathom-
long, across the dark and
burnished ocean; when the
frigate-birds seem as though
they will never desist from
their stately circling of their
roosts and the fruit-bats scamper
across the pathway to the moon ;
and the scent of the flowered
island comes in spasms with the
dying breeze.
Upon such nights, all condi-
tions of men in all the ages have
conceived plans of danger or
adventure for profit or romance.
And it was upon just such a
night that I tried my first betel-
nut. There wasn’t anything
much else to do.
My decision brought a gratify-
ing response from the crew of
the 45-foot ketch La belle, a
group of men hailing variously
from Goodenough, Fergusson,
Dobu and Normanby Islands,
and the Trobriands.
Horse, the skipper, took up a
position on the starboard rail
from which he could watch the
proceedings. Losa, from Dobu,
and Big Eyes from the Tro-
briands picked-over the stock
and selected a fresh green betel-
nut only a couple of days from
the palm, a betelnut which
would be young and tender for
my unaccustomed teeth.
Mwapweia emptied a supply
of the white, beautifully pure
and refined lime made from
burnt coral from
an ancient,
beautifully decor-
ated gourd into a
clean tobacco-tin.
Baldy, a descend-
ant of the wild
men from Good-
enough Island,
exam i n e d his
private stock and
brought me a
fresh green catkin
of moya, the
ginger - flavored
pepper-vine which
provides the last
delicacy of taste
to the confirmed
addict.
The prepara-
tions complete,
they all sat around me in a circle,
giggling, and waiting for the
circus.
I husked the nut and crunched
it between my teeth, finding the
flavor acrid, but not unkind. It
puckered my mouth a little, and
Giblin, a Methodist Mission
boy from Fergusson, handed me
the lime-tin and a teaspoon.
There was a gurgle of antici-
patory laughter when I wet the
executive end to dip it in the
lime—the handle would hold
more than sufficient —and Horse,
sucking his pipe like a University
man, leaned over and put me
right, reversing the spoon in
my fingers. Chewing steadily,
my mouth full of betelnut, I
added the lime.
One reaction was immediate.
There was a strong, hot flush of
blood to my head, mounting in
intensity till I felt I couldn’t bear
it. This lasted perhaps ten
seconds, then subsided, leaving
me with an exalted sense of well-
being. My salivary glands were
working furiously, and the boys
suggested 1 swallow or spit,
whichever I chose. I swallowed,
Then 1 added the pepper-vine,
and began to enjoy the taste a$
well as the sensation.
But in recording this enjoy-
ment I am not suggesting that it
would be a universal reaction.
i am a fellow who took to
porpoise- and turlle-steaks with
the utmost enjoyment. I have
even no objection to turtle-eggs ;
and 1 reached a gastronomic
height, more than once, dining
0 n the eyes of New Zealand
blue-cod in a company of
Maoris. The only objection 1
had to this present fare was the
close scrutiny of nine spectators.
“Show me your tongue,”
jvi wa p W eia demanded
lobS
“More lime,” he decided, and
the others nodded in agreement.
T added more lime another
bite ol ; moya , and the sense of
we U-being moved into Position
Q ne, a site it normally occupies
a f ter French brandv with black
art f. r a iLtZI mi
coftee ‘ sta yed theie
eV fvQL lg ' „
cha S „!T y ° Ur tonSUe ’
This time the red tinted organ
his in l e ’ th f red-tinted organ
m t tbeir unanimous
Q __ PrtV{ll
approval.
more b T°. they said
1 hat is enough tor a first time
Buwo (pronounced “B’woar’)
is the Coral Sea name for betel,
the fruit of the areca-palm. It
is almost the only stimulant
these natives use, and its con-
sumption is a rite.
Some seem to live on it, chew-
ing it at every opportunity, men
and women, small boys and
girls. Old men and women who
are toothless masticate the
mixture artificially in small,
Precious cargo from the village.
beautifully - carved ebony
mortars, using tiny ebony pestles.
T
In it produces no
harmful effects, but afterthja -
mght , jags and talk-tests which
sometimes spring up r
reason at all, your houseboy
rnay appear m the morning, no
haggard, but definitely ,
with a careless disregard tor con-
sequences which may lead to
nightmares of household dis-
organisation.
Objection is sometimes taken
to the nut on lesthetic grounds,
for it turns the mouth and lips
red, the teeth black. Just recently
this aspect was discussed in the
Legislative Council of Papua, a
body where white and black
forgather to teach the native a
basic self-government, and,
except for its lack of executive
power, a body very like the
Papuan village councils which
have, existed since the dawn of
.time.
Here the objections were
answered by a native C ouncillor
who said that his own people had
no objection whatever to the use
of lipstick by white women.
And the black teeth do not
necessarily accompany the
habit. Quite a number of con-
firmed be(el-chewers have teeth
ol sparkling white. Giblin and
Melody, two of the crew-boys
attendant at my initiation, follow
a fashion of the moment which
decrees that upper teeth should
be black port-side, white star-
board ; with the lower teeth vice
v ersa So they industriously
P oks b *h e selected ivories with
squid-bone. The checkerboard
e fisct is certainly an eye-stoppei.
Some missions advocate total
P ro h lbl fi oll lh f nut ’ and d< T n^
dlo their docks u P° n wba J
grounds ’ tem P°[ al °[ spintUa1 ’
J™ secPTha
Tobacco h
SrZnu in
fa^r of b ete Eu t than S a e
1 p?rm*ir?dl
{ or Jimifnee 8 and he
?? d a noted ve rmiiuge , and the
island communities may not
have be£n able t 0 maintain
their normal standards of health
ar *d physique without its use.
tde . ot h er hand, its
abundance is as disastrous to
rrHTimnn itv life and individual
community me ana inaiviauai
performance as is an unrestricted
use of alcohol,
The palm, which might be
described as a tall, exceptionally
slender version of a coconut-
palm, grows almost anywhere in
the tropics, but thrives in forest
shade. Its crop is seasonal, and
the season varies slightly from
island to island, the time ot
greatest production being
generally about September 01
October, after the close of the
south-east monsoon,
This season favors canoe-travel
over long distances ; and the
Variables themselves would have
been sufficient to promote a
trade - n the nut
But the real]y potent factor
which brought about the sp ,„ted
trading in the Coral Sea was the
presence of an aristocracy in the
Trobriand Islands,
for if a commoner were to
grow a sufficiency of betelnut he
would find that, while the work
Q f cultivation was his, the fruit,
when ripe, might be corn-
mandeered by the village chief,
And a chief would not grow his
own betelnut because he could
commandeer a commoner s.
Even today the Irobnander
evades the planting oi nut-palms,
Once the Government made it
mandatory for the native to plant
useful trees, but this is not in
the modern scheme. Ihe white
man, recruiting labor lrom the
gardens, decreased the supply or
betelnut, increasing the deman
tbe ca P acil y ot lbe nallVS to
pay ; and in every respect
in which an aristocracy
fosters trade, the presence
of the white man has sup-
ported and encouraged
commerce in the nut.
Moreover, good fresh
betelnut offered for sale in
quantity is the greatest in-
centive yet discovered in
these parts. A trader buy-
ing copra who has no stock
of betelnut isn’t in the
race if a rival well-provided
is working the same area.
The first trader who opened
my eyes to the possibilities of
the betelnut was travelling in a
tiny 16ft. launch with three or
four of a crew and his wife and
his wash-and-iron girl, who were
inseparable. We were both
sheltering for the night by
Fergusson Island, just before you
attempt the open sea-lanes for
the Dum-Dums; swinging
quietly in a forest-dark inlet.
“You can buy a sack of betel-
nut anywhere for a quid,” he
said. “You sell the nuts twenty-
five for two-bob, and you make
twenty-four quid on the sack.”
But this was an optimistic
figure. A 255.-sack of betelnut
sells to the native for £2 10s.
For the difference, the trader
provides the bag, transports the
nuts, and carries a risk of loss,
for betelnut deteriorates rapidly
in store, heating and destroying
anything stored with it, and
rotting bags in which it may be
kept.
Bigger profits are certainly
made yvhen the nuts are sold by
the basketful over the trade-store
counter. The return to the trade
is then in the vicinity of £4 a
bag.
It is when the betelnut is
used in a series of deals that
astronomical profits can be
made. For example, there was
the trader who caught a sword-
fish —food for heroes. He sold
it to betelnut-wealthy people for
25 sacks of nuts, and, in a
community starving for betel,
bought two big teak-logs—
mekeo-logs, rather for each
bag.
Dry statistical returns, how-
ever, give no idea of the color
and the romance of the trade,
as I found when I accompanied
Trobriand trader Ralph Lumley
on a betel-buying expedition. We
had sent runners a day ahead to
alert the people.
The first village lay on the
beach, a mile-long expanse of
white sand ; and for a while it
seemed as though we were not
yet expected, or perhaps not
expected at all. But soon a bare-
breasted girl walked out of the
bush with a huge basket on her
head, and it was brimming over
with perhaps half-a-hundred-
weight of the orange and gold
and green and dark-brown fruits.
She set it down carefully at the
foot of a coconut-palm and
returned into the bush for more.
And then, from all directions,
came canoes laden, and men
walking with bunches lashed to
carrying poles, and children with
small baskets, and matrons with
incredibly heavy loads upon their
heads.
Family groups gathered
together on the sands with
coconut-fronds, and began plait-
ing baskets for the occasion.
Mwapweia, of the crew, began to
run a shuttle-service to the beach
with the ship’s dinghy, and
presently the community took to
its canoes and swarmed out to
sell its produce.
The first to arrive was a careful
housewife She wore a grass-
There is an excitement in the
nut, and it was beginning to work.
skirt, ear-decorations, a plaited
garter round the calf of her left
leg, and a close-cropped head
of curly brown hair. She
estimated her baskets of betelnut
through half-closed eyes, and
carefully measured a quantity
out into a basin. This she offered
to Ralph.
“Rice,” she requested.
She got three cups, and
measured out more betelnut —
a little less, this time.
“Sugar.”
Two cups.
She considered for several
moments, her hand on her chin,
the quantity she would measure-
out for her next request.
“Kerosene?” she asked.
Her empty beer-bottle was
filled.
Now the eyes of her little boy
brightened. He knew the next
item on her list —“Biscuits.”
The basinful of betelnut was
worth four of the enormous,
immensely hard and immensely
tasteless ship’s-biscuits, of which
the sailors on the windjammers
used to say it was better to wait
till they were weevilly; for then
you had bread and meat, too, and
not so much exercise.
Now the matron had betelnut
left over, and she had no hesita-
tion—“ Rice.” Rice would keep
indefinitely ; the only foodstuff
available to village people that
would ; more of it was the choice
of a good housewife who put her
family’s welfare first.
The next canoe also contained
a mother, whose shopping-lisl
was similar, but who was accom-
panied by a small boy aboul
nine who had his private stock
of nuts, picked by himself from
trees that he owned in his own
right. He was so bashful that
his mother had to persuade him
into naming what he wanted for
his crop. He bought four
biscuits and three sticks of
tobacco, and his mother nodded
approvingly.
A similar procedure went on
at village after village. Crew-
boys sorted the nuts roughly,
putting the fresh green nuts on
one side for immediate sale.
They were insufficiently
developed, and storage would
rot them ; yet at this stage they
would be much in demand.
There was another collection
made of the really superb
bunches, just as they came from
the palm, each consisting of 40
to 60 fruits the size and shape
of duck-eggs, all evenly graded,
and all brilliant in yellow or
orange. These would make
special gifts for chiefs (for favors
rendered in the past), or for
relatives and friends of the crew.
The loose betelnuts had to be
bagged—they included quantities
of sprouting nuts gathered from
the ground, some immature
nuts ; and the cream of the crop.
The nuts still in their bunches
were stowed that way, for they
would travel cooler, and they
were in greater demand by
customers. They went into the
(Continued on page 30)


m
m
\
lm convinced
Capstan
is better tobacco"
■w
•*>?
IS
m
o N
WZ
x'
445D.9.56
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Moonee Valley Gold Cup
(£4250; 13 furlongs) and
W. S. Cox Plate (£5250 ; \\ rpile
are the big attractions on nex
Saturday’s programme of the
Valley Club’s spring fixture. The
Plate was Australia’s richest
regular spring weigh t-for-age
contest until the V.R.C. jacked-
up the Fisher Plate to £6OOO
(The V.R.C., of course, staged
the £lO,OOO w.f.a. Queen Eliza-
beth Stakes last March.)
Kingster, as a rank: outsider,
and Caranna ran first and
second in the Cox Plate last year,
with another three-year-old,
Sailor’s Guide, third. Rising Fast
started favorite. Al Crusa won
the Valley Cup last season from
Gold Scheme and Dunsinane.
Neither race had any bearing on
the Melbourne Cup, as the
w.f.a. placegetters were non-
runners and the Valley Cup
placegetters all missed out in the
Flemington contest.
Ray Ribbon, Ark Royal,
Prince Delville and Evening
Peal might share in the Valley
Cup prizemoney.
In 1953 Wodalla, then at the
top of his form, won both the
Valley Cup and the Melbourne
Cup, but, over the years the
former event has been a poor
guide to the two-miler. In the
distant past—so years ago to be
exact —Blue Spec landed both
races, as did Clean Sweep 55
years ago.
Redcraze’s amazing Caulfield
Cup victory took his earnings
to £47,118, and he is now ninth
on the list of notable Australasian
winners. The middle and
distance w.f.a. contests over the
next few weeks appear to be
at Redcraze’s mercy, and they
aggregate quite a handy total in
£ s. d.
In the Caulfield Cup Red-
craze started at 9 to 4 and
defeated Evening Peal (8. to 1)
and Prince Delville (80 to 1).
He was originally handicapped
at 9.7 for the two-miler, but
incurred a 41b.-penalty for his
win in the Metropolitan and a
further 61b. for his Caulfield
Cup success.
Last June Redcraze was taken
to Brisbane, where in two starts
he won the O’Shea Stakes
(w.f.a.) and the Brisbane Cup
(two miles) with 9st. He returned
to Sydney and won Rosehill’s
Hill Stakes, followed by the
Colin Stephen Stakes and the
Metropolitan, Next start saw
him winner of the Caulfield
Stakes, and he capped all per-
formances by his really slashing
win in the Caulfield Cup.
Trainer T. J. Smith regards
Redcraze as the ideal horse to
have in his stable, because he
eats well and sleeps well—-like
most other champions. Smith
was confident about the Caulfield
Cup, and he is equally so about
the outcome of the Melbourne
Cup. He could be proved right.
The Victoria Derby, to be run
next Saturday week, looks like
being a more open and more
keenly-contested race than the
A.J.C. classic, and maybe the
Melbourne colts that failed in
Sydney will prove the Randwick
form wrong. Summalu, who
finished fast behind the placed
horses at Randwick, won the
10-furlongs Caulfield Burwood
Handicap in fine style on Satur-
day, and he and Hot Spell
should make it interesting for
the Sydney colts Monte Carlo,
Harnham Hill and Bernfield.
Monte Carlo won the A.J.C.
Derby in brilliant fashion from
Bernfield and Harnham Hill, but
connections of Harnham Hill are
hoping the colt will win his first
race by taking the Flemington
classic.
Bendrum, Melbourne’s best
three-year-old filly and without
equal in Australia, has now won
at her last six starts. Success
m Caulfield’s 1000 Guineas
raised her stakes’ aggregate to
£7472 from eight starts. She
was bred by her owners, R. H.
and H. J. Benyon, Albury
poultryfarmers, and is trained by
C. Waymouth, a former jockey.
The filly is a daughter of
Masthead (imp.) and Unerring
by Caithness (imp.) from Miss
Arrow by Spearhead (imp.). Miss
Arrow won several races on
Melbourne tracks, as did her
half-sister, Emperic. Bendrum
appears to have the V.R.C.
fillies’ double—the £l5OO Wake-
ful Stakes, and the £4OOO Oaks
—all sewn-up.
• • • •
Blue Taza, surprise winner of
Caulfield Mona Nursery, is
expected to develop staying
ability, as she is closely related
to Advocate, who, though getting
on a bit, has won at six of his
last eight starts, and is now in
Melbourne seeking further suc-
cess. Blue Taza—raced by G.
Fairbairn and trained by K.
Burns —is by Blue Mickie (imp.)
from Montaza (winner of
several Melbourne races), by
Eastern Monarch (imp.) from
Tsuma by Spearhead (imp.).
Q.T.C.’s McDougall Stakes’
winner on Saturday, Nilisa, was
bought at the Randwick yearling
sales last Easter for 825gns. She
started favorite and had an easy
task, running the five furlongs
in 60|sec. Nilisa is a Nilo
(imp.) youngster from Bonnet
Box (imp.) by Torbido from My
Bonnie II by Coronach (imp.).
My Bonnie II was a brilliant
New Zealand filly, winning,
among other races, Auckland’s
Great Northern and the Avon-
dale Guineas. Nilisa was bred
by J. P. Johnson, of Winder-
mere stud, Murringo (N.S.W.).
Even-money winner of the
Queensland Guineas, Book Link,
trained by H. F. Best and ridden
by Noel Best, was bred by W. S.
Harris and Sons, of Kerrabee
(N.S.W.). He is a gelding by
Persian Book (imp.) from Honey
Dew by Christopher Robin
(imp.).
American owner, R. J.
Kleberg, Jnr., of famed King
Ranch, for whom Randwick
trainer Fred Allsop bought a
number of yearling fillies at the
Easter sales, didn’t take long to
enter the Australian winning-
list ; his filly Ascendancy, at
second start, scored narrowly, if
luckily, over Gulf Lass (who
came from the rear of the field)
and Lady Maloja. All three
placegetters are by Star King-
dom (imp.). The winner’s dam,
Cordelia, is a daughter of Mr.
Standfast (imp.) and Hannah by
Pantheon (imp.).
“The Ring”: Two days before
the Caulfield Cup the V.R.C.
committee, with four absentees
whose horses are trained by
Theo Lewis, reduced the sus-
pensions bn Lewis, a crack Mel-
bourne trainer, and his 16-year-
old apprentice Gerald Burke to
one year from the two years
imposed by the stewards for
allegedly pulling up Indian
Court, a merely moderate four-
year-old in a no-account race
at Moonee Valley. Lewis said
he didn’t think Indian Court
had any chance, and so advised
the owners; Burke said he had
hurt what they call in the police
courts his private parts during
the last stages of the race and
was overshy to mention it to
Lewis or the stewards after the
race, and a doctor arrived to
corroborate his claim. As Bert
(“Cardigan”) Wolfe, the doyen
of racing-writers and ex-chair-
man of stewards, pointed out,
how could the stewards be sure
beyond doubt the facts for the
defence were untrue? Any
reasonable magistrate, jury or
judge would have accepted them.
* *
After the brilliant trotting of
the previous week, it was dis-
appointing that the main -event
of the Harold Park Spring Trot-
ting Carnival—the £5OOO Spring
Cup —should have been marred
by slow get-aways, bumping and
an accident involving three
runners just after the start. From
then on interest centred on the
first six runners, and they spread-
out in a way Brown wouldn’t
have allowed his cows.
It looked as though Black-
well’s making full use of Brilliant
Moon’s speed had won him the
Cup when the black head was
first around the corner; then
Port Logan (at 50 to 1) in a
punishing burst swept to and far
enough past him for a half-head
decision. Young Wexford was
a solid-finishing third ; Mineral
Spring, who didn’t recover from
an early bump, maintained his
record of bad luck in big runs.
The Spring Handicap Final
was an exacting run, which
suited King Ranji to a tee.
Prominent throughout, he moved
in the last lap with the precision
stride that will make many more
than his opposition on Saturday
submit to him.
Anytime (third) and First
Variety (fifth) were running on
at the post, but their runs had
a superficial edge compared to
the big black tradesman. He has
an ugly big head and a stiff-
legged pacing action, not often
seen in champions ; but when he
takes a grip on the bit, one is
forced to admire all of him
working as a machine —the head
held high as though it were
beautiful, and the legs moving
to ground-gulping rhythm.
Malniri, displaying unexpected
tenacity, was second. Spring
Scott, after a slow start, is the
only runner worth an excuse ;
she will win more races.
+ +
The 58 men and 21 women
athletes to represent Australia
at the Games have been
announced after a couple of days
of trials at Melbourne Olympic
Park. Landy, selected for the
1500- and 5000-metres, has been
unfit, and may not be able to
run at the Games ; a great pity
if he can’t. Landy’s great rival,
the controversial Jim Bailey, won
800- and 1500-metres at the
trials, and has been picked in
both. Showman Bailey may be,
but he’s also a mighty fine
runner. To single-out only one
other selection, Hec Hogan has
rightly been selected in both
100- and 200-metre sprints (as
well as in a relay sprint); he
didn’t run in the 100-metres on
Saturday, as he adjudged it too
much to run in it and the 200-
metres, with heats in both, on
the one afternoon. But he’s
certainly Australia’s best bet for
a gold-medal in the 100-metres.
* * •
An “Olympic” carnival in
Sydney’s Olympic Pool con-
firmed the world-ranking of Aus-
tralia’s swim stars. In particular
they more than confirmed
Lorraine Crapp’s rating. In once
again breaking smin. for the 400-
metres-440yds. double she set
four world-records, and in a
relay-swim set another and
helped to set yet two more (relay
records). Not bad for an after-
noon’s work. Armidale (N.S.W.)
boy John Monckton, who pretty
well overnight has become Aus-
tralia’s No. 1 backstroker, in
place of Queensland’s David
Thiele, set a new- world long-
course record for 100-metres
(63.35ec.).
* * •
“Dentonio”: An Australian
athlete who may surprise the
woxld in the 3000-metres steeple-
chase at the Games is Grahame
Thomas. In the Olympic trials
at Melbourne on Saturday Oct.
13, he clipped 3.2 sec. off his
Australian record for the event
(new time, Bmin. 56.25ec.).
Thomas is not related to another
Sydney runner, Albert Thomas,
who was chosen to run for
Australia in the 5000-metres.
“Veryl”: Australian high-
jumper Doug Stuart, lately back
from America to take part in the
Olympic trials, holds Michigan
Uni.’s high-jump record of
6ft. 8 5-16 in. This is a fraction
higher than Charles Porter’s
Australian record of 6ft. B|in.
Apropos, Stuart, who has been
making a thorough study of
American high-jump methods,
regularly mailed to Porter any
hints he picked up—a very sport-
ing gesture. Porter won the high-
jump in the trials, and Stuart
still has to battle it out with
Victoria’s John Vernon for a
place in the Games team.
* * *
Football round-up: Perth
League premiership was won by
East Perth, which beat South
Fremantle 10.17-9.10 in the
grand-final. East Perth last won
the premiership in 1936 —and,
in fact, has not been in the
“grand” again since that year.
... .In Soccer, the N.S.W. State
premiership was won by Cess-
nock, beating Corrimal, last
year’s premiers, 2-0 in the
grand-final. (Though Corrimal,
which is led by Olympic-
team skipper Bob Bignall,
had earlier beaten the ’Nocks
4-1 in a semi-final.) Mel-
bourne’s Soccer premiership, the
Dockerty Cup, was won by
Hakoah, which beat Brighton
2-0 —Hakoah’s fourth successive
Cup win, a record.
* * #
Arthur Fagan, Balmain fast-
medium bowler, selected in the
N.S.W. Sheffield Shield team to
meet Queensland on Friday,
shares a distinction with only
one other player, former S.A.
Shield player Geoff Noblet —that
of being selected in a team in
place of a fit Ray Lindwall. This
was in N.S.W.’s last Shield game
of 1953-54, against S.A. In
N.S.W.’s previous game, against
W.A., Lindwall had taken only
one wicket in each innings, both
times that of tailender Price,
and had bowled and fielded
lackadaisically. (Lindwall was
dropped, and Noblet picked
instead, for the fifth Test against
South Africa in 1949-50.)


In the Ned Kelly Profession
Blue Cap of Brookong
By IAIN McDOUGALL
THE inclusion by Douglas
Stewart and Nancy Kees-
ing of Barcroft Boake’s
fine bushranging ballad
“Fetherstonhaugh” in A us-
tralian Bush Ballads puts a spot
of limelight on one of the lesser-
known bushranging gangs that
filled for a short space in the
Riverina the gap between
Morgan and the Kellys.
Cuthbert Fetherstonhaugh
himself was one of the
courageous pastoral pioneers;
his character well exemplified
when he turned his mare and
galloped off for assistance a few
feet from the rifle-muzzles of
Blue Cap and Druce and
Hammond, Blue Cap’s con-
federates.
The Blue Cap bushrangers
were only youngsters. Like the
Kellys, their troubles began with
horse-stealing—or “soldiering”
horses, as it was more euphemis-
tically known in the ’sixties.
In 1868 they banded together
and set out to emulate the
Gardiner-Hall gang, ranging at
will across the N.S.W. country
between Wagga and Narrandera,
and from Wagga up-river to the
Tumut area. Blue Cap was
leader ; his followers, Dick the
Devil, the Doctor and the
teenage Druce.
They seem to have been
typical “wild colonial boys,”
more spirited than evil; but
they were heavily armed, and
they set police and squatters at
defiance, victualling themselves
from station-stores as the fancy
took them.
Blue Cap seems to have been
a genial youngster; when they
stuck-up a station they took
what they wanted in the way of
food, clothing and spare cash
and then organised parties at
which their winning ways usually
induced the women to join in
the fun.
Their particular bete noire
was Waller, owner of Kooba
station, who had set the police
on to them on more than one
occasion. When they bailed
Kooba up they forced the irate
squatter to cook them a meal
of mutton-chops, but this little
piece of tomfoolery cost them
dear.
Furious at the indignity,
Waller got word through, and
after a skirmish with the police-
party that arrived on the scene
the Doctor and Dick the Devil
were captured, and Blue Cap
and Druce only made their
escape by swimming their horses
across the Murrumbidgee.
Blue Cap and Druce, after
raiding an outstation on Tub bo
for firearms and fresh horses,
headed for the wild country
around Boree Creek, where they
were joined by a reinforcement
named Hammond.
Their near scrape with the
police at Kooba made them
cautious, and they hid out in
the scrub until they were forced
to plan another raid to replenish
the larder.
They chose Brookong station,
near Galore, which was managed
by Cuthbert Fetherstonhaugh
for the owners, Messrs. Heb-
den and Osborne. Fetherston-
haugh was not unmindful that
he might be visited by Blue
Cap, and had loaded firearms
ready for use in his office.
On the day of the raid, how-
ever, rain had interfered with
the Brookong shearing, then in
progress, and the manager had
ridden over to the shearing-shed
of a neighboring property,
Bobby Rand’s, to see whether
their operations had also been
interrupted by the weather.
Returning later in the day
to Brookong, Fetherstonhaugh
rode up to a crowd of men
gathered about the store. Think-
ing it was simply a shearers’
meeting, he was surprised when
the ranks of the crowd moved
aside, and he found himself
covered by a kneeling rifleman
who called on him to “stand.”
Instead, Fetherstonhaugh
wheeled his mare and flattened
himself along her ( back. The
bushranger—it was Hamilton —
immediately fired and missed,
and before the other two could
bring their rifles to bear he had
spurred his horse out of range.
Fetherstonhaugh’s next act
was even more courageous.
Realising that it was 18 miles to
the nearest police-station at
Urana, and that the bushrangers
might wreak their annoyance at
his escape on others at the
station whilst he was away, he
turned and rode back.
He was met halfway by Blue
Cap, who genially invited the
manager to return to his own
homestead, and apologised for
the shot that had been fired at
him. Hammond, asked by
Fetherstonhaugh why he had
fired at ah unarmed man, said,
“You should have stood” —-
doubtless justifiable from a
bushranger’s point of view.
Fetherstonhaugh has left an
account of what took place at
Brookong during the bush-
rangers’ raid:
“When the three bushrangers
rode up to Brookong, John
Dill, who was overseer, was
going down to the woolshed,
and they called out to him, ‘Hi,
young man!’ He thought they
were some flash young shearers,
and took no notice, but they
soon undeceived him. One of
them galloped up to him, and
putting a pistol to his head told
him to come along.
“I may say that John Dill,
Robert Curtis, the storekeeper,
and a man named Hemphill, a
fine fellow, made up the whole
of those on whom I could
depend for help if an oppor-
tunity should occur to handle
the bushrangers. The sheep-
washers had come up in a body
on strike, and their leader
openly fraternised with the bush-
rangers.
“The rangers then went on to
the store with John Dill, and
one of them, lounging over the
counter, said to Curtis, the
storekeeper, ‘We have come to
bail you up, young man.’
“Curtis took no notice, think-
ing it was just flashness, and
seeing a tomahawk lying on the
floor, he stooped to pick it up
and put it in its place. In a
moment he found a revolver at
his head, and a voice said,
‘Drop that quick or I’ll shoot!’
Curtis then realised he was
‘stuck up.’
“They asked him to produce
any firearms he had, and he
brought out his favorite shot-
gun, down the barrel of which
they made him pour water.
Then they said to John Dill,
‘You have a revolving rifle here ;
we want it.’ He replied, ‘You
can’t have it.’ Blue Cap put his
revolver at Dill’s head and said,
‘You get it, or I’ll shoot you.’
‘Shoot away,’ said Dill, and
there that little episode ended.
“They then broke into my
office and rifled the cashbox of
a few pounds in cash and a
cheque belonging to one of the
men for about £3O that he had
asked me to keep for him. As
any men came up to the store
they were bailed-up, and one of
the robbers kept all the men in
front of him. He had his rifle
leaning against him and his
revolver stuck out in front,
cocked. I counted on the three
bushrangers arms capable of
discharging 52 shots.
“By this time I had appeared
on the scene. After a bit Blue
Cap said to me, ‘On these
occasions we always shout for
all hands. Let us have some
liquor.’
“Throughout Blue Cap was
spokesman, and was quite civil;
in fact he evidently had adopted
the Claude Duval style. I told
him that the storekeeper would
give him' some grog, so he went
to him.
“He returned in a few minutes
with some rum, and, smelling it,
said, ‘l’m sure you have some-
thing better than that.’ ‘Oh,
yes,’ I said, ‘there’s brandy.’
“So he was supplied with
some, and then he came to me
with bottle and glass and said,
‘We always commence with the
boss first.’ “Well,’ I said, ‘this
boss won’t have any.’ ‘Oh, no
offence, no offence,’ he said.
“Some of the men had a nip,
some declined. All the ‘on-
strike’ sheep-washers had more
than one nip, and the leader
slapped Blue Cap on the back
and said he was one of the right
sort —that was the way to make
the blurry squatters sit up.”
After making themselves at
home in this fashion, the bush-
rangers told Fetherstonhaugh
they could do with some fresh
horses, and asked him to
accompany them to the yards.
The only mount they fancied
did not belong to Brookong, but
to Mr. Lloyd, of Yamma
station, and when Fetherston-
haugh explained this Blue Cap
very nicely agreed to leave
the horse, a racing mare,
unmolested.
In Boake’s poem the bush-
rangers are made to sneer at
Fetherstonhaugh as “my saintly
preacher,” and he is referred to
by the poet in another line as
“the muscular Christian.”
(Fetherstonhaugh at this stage of
his life was deeply religious ; he
conducted the services himself
in the station chapel at Brook-
ong, and shortly afterwards left
to become an Anglican parson
for a brief period.)
Blue Cap, however, far from
sneering at the muscular
Christian, was perfectly polite
to Fetherstonhaugh, and listened
peaceably to a homily on the
follies of bushranging and its
nearly certain termination with
a bullet or a date with the hang-
man.
Towards dusk the gang
mounted their horses and rode
off in the direction of Mahonga,
and Fetherstonhaugh immedi-
ately saddled the fastest horse
on the property and galloped 14
miles to Butherwah station,
where he left a warning that
the bushrangers were on the
rampage, and then went on to
Urana, a further four miles, for
police help.
Finding Urana police-station
deserted except for women,
because the troopers were out
after Blue Cap, he wired Wagga
and Albury police, then went to
Butherwah and suggested to the
men on the station that they
join him and ride to Mahonga
and warn the owner, Robert
Rand, that he was in danger.
Much to Fetherstonhaugh’s
disgust, they refused to turn-out,
and, having treated them to some
most unchristian language, he
rode off alone in the direction of
Rand’s property. He had a
single-shot pistol.
He met with a similar rebuff
from the manager of Urangeline
station, where he called en
route to Mahonga. Alone, and
incensed with his spiritless
neighbors, he was passing a
boundary-rider’s hut when he
recognised one of the bush-
rangers’ horses tethered near by.
A s Fetherstonhaugh rode
closer to reconnoitre a voice
challenged him and half-a-dozen
shots were fired. He rode off,
with the bushrangers in pursuit,
and crossed Urangeline Creek
below what was called the Four
Mile Dam.
Attempting to cross the creek
in their chase after him, the
three outlaws made the mistake
of attempting to ford closer up
to the dam, and Hamilton, the
man who had fired on Fether-
stonhaugh at Brookong home-
stead, was drowned.
Blue Cap’s' bushranging cam-
paign did not last much longer,
He was captured soon after-
wards by a single trooper near
Gundagai, and was sentenced to
10 years’ imprisonment. He
served six years, when he was
released, along with Gardiner,
by Sir Hercules Robertson.
Druce was lucky to dodge the
hangman. He wounded a
policeman in the head, was
sentenced to death, but was
reprieved. He, too, was released
in 1874, along with Blue Cap
and Gardiner,
The Brookong incident was
only one of many stirring
moments in the life of Cuthbert
Fetherstonhaugh from when he
arrived in Melbourne, a lad from
Ireland, in 1853. A noted horse-
man (he was a popular steeple-
chaser, and rode on a number of
occasions against Adam Lindsay
Gordon), he left Victoria in
1859 for North Queensland,
where he and his brother went
broke trying to establish sheep
on the country behind Rock-
hampton.
He had gained his early
pastoral experience with the
Hentys at Muntham, in Western
Victoria, and on his return from
Queensland took over the
management of Brookong. Later
he had his own property in the
Coonamble district, where the
popularity of the grey-headed
old pioneer was general.
Scrap-Metal Pirates
By J. E. HARNETTY
THE Japs’ buying of wrecks
sunk by their own planes at
Darwin was simply the latest
symptom of Nippon’s chronic
metal-shortage.
Tokyo reports say. that the Jap
water-police have been rein-
forced to cope with scrap-metal
hijackers. These enterprising
characters are said to have been
raiding scrap-barges heading for
Yokohama, and disappearing
with their loot in fast launches
before the scrap-barge crews
had got over the shock and
before the police could get within
cooee of them.
Collecting metal for Japan’s
furnaces is, in fact, a major
industry. Japan has little or no
ore of her own, and since
Manchurian and Korean
resources have been cut off she
has to import practically every
ounce of metal needed. Besides
what she now imports from
abroad, Japan uses whal, salvage-
crews recover from the sea-
bottom. Blackmarketing in
recovered scrap-metal was rife
during the Allied occupation, and
doubtless still is.
Arsenal staffs throughout
Japan after the surrender obeyed
S.C.A.P. directives to dump all
explosive ordnance. Much of it
was dumped indiscriminately into
the sea. In most cases they didn't
sink it far enough offshore, and
fishermen cursed the metal
objects that tore their nets, until
they realised what a goldmine
lay on the sea-bottom.
In Western Honshu,
British Commonwealth Occupa-
tion Force ordnance men found
that enterprising fishermen were
trawling for dumped shells,
bombs and torpedoes. Skin-
divers were used to prospect
shallower areas.
Unfortunately for some of the
fishermen, it’s one thing to
recover ammunition and quite
another thing to know how to
handle it when it’s been
immersed for a long time and
various touchy chemical changes
have taken place in the
explosive-charges. Some of the
recovery-gangs were spattered
over the Japanese coastal scenery
in unexpected blasts.
On Eta Jima, which once
boasted Japan’s Imperial Naval
Academy and the tomb of
Admiral Togo, of Russo-
Japanese War fame, three of a
party of four fishermen met
messy deaths one peaceful
Sabbath during the Occupation.
The fourth man escaped with
severe shock, nobody knows
how.
They had recovered an un-
exploded torpedo and were try-
ing to disengage the warhead
from the body with a cold-
chisel and sledgehammer. The
resultant blast rattled dinner-
plates* in Occupation Force
messes in Kure, two or three
miles over the Inland Sea . . .
One big Japanese submarine
was refloated and brought to
Kure, providing hundreds of tons
of scrap-metal. But the first task
of the salvagers was the grisly
one of removing the skeletons of
the sub.’s crew. All hands had
gone to the bottom with their
ship when an alert Allied
bomber-crew caught her on the
bend.
At another time an Occupation
officer found some fishing
villagers bashing quick-firing
anti-aircraft shells on a rock to
separate the fused rounds from
the brass shellcases—brass being
worth top money on the scrap-
market. No casualties this time.
During the Korean War,
Japanese manufacturers were
given important United Nations
Forces contracts, and this
stepped-up an already heavy
demand for scrap-metal. The
British Commonwealth Forces
got back some of John Tax-,
payer’s money by selling scrap
recovered from Korea through
the Britcom Salvage Unit. Jap
buyers snapped-up anything
from brass shellcases to wrecked
tank-hulls. They bought dis-
carded rifles and machine-guns
(proficiently battered out of
shooting-capacity).
Old B.C.F.K. hands will
remember genial Major Bert
Coleman (a Digger of World
Wars I and II and the Korean
show). O.C. of the salvage unit,
he had landing-craft doing a
ferry-run from Inchon to Kure
with scrap. Discarded petrol-
and food-containers were flat-
tened and compressed into solid
metal blocks to conserve
shipping-space. Japanese agents
were glad to get them.
One of Major Coleman’s
oddest items of stock-in-trade
was an R.A.F. Short Sunderland
flying-boat. Flung ashore in a
typhoon at Iwakuni flying-boat
base, it was put on the market
stripped of its motors, guns and
instruments. Its duralumin hull
soon disappeared into a Japanese
engineering works.


ncttvßfffmi
mis nwonHiaa _
{anuKuiyiMiXut
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
*
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
mil? t ? I » 1 S I ft e • . I TO.
tOI B 0 t
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EUROPEAN CUSTOMS UNION
r T - ' Y PIC A L British press-
-*■ comment on the proposal
that the U.K. should join the six
West European countries
(France, Germany, Italy, Bel-
gium, Netherlands and Luxem-
bourg) which are moving towards
merging their economies into a
common market:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The aim is to set up a partial
Free Trade area consisting of the
Customs Union of the Messina
Six, the United Kingdom and
such other O.E.E.C. countries as
care to join.
“The immediate objection, of
course, is the adverse effect
on Commonwealth preferences
which such a Free Trade area
would have. But about 90 per
cent, of Commonwealth exports
to this country [Britain] are
concerned with agriculture and
raw materials. The intention,
therefore, would be to excliide
these goods from the Free Trade
area. This country would con-
tinue to afford Commonwealth
products their present degree of
preference, while opening our
markets to goods in which the
Commonwealth is not seriously
competing.
“Here, in short, is a proposal
for a partial Free Trade area
that avoids the loss of markets
inevitable if Britain stood wholly
outside the European Customs
Union while also avoiding the
collapse of Commonwealth
preferences which would result
from this country wholly joining
in the Customs Union.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
crux of the matter is that British
manufacturing industry is to lose,
over a period, the protection by
tariff and quota which has been
built up over the past 30 years.
In return, it will gain free access
to the rapidly expanding markets
of the Continent. A Free Trade
area of nearly 250-million people
will at last provide mass-markets
for modern mass-production.
When the chance which this
offers and the cost that will be
involved are fully realised there
will be an uproar. Tremendous
controversies lie ahead.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle ” :
“Nowadays the world’s markets
are composed of fewer and
fewer, and therefore larger and
larger, units; and unless some-
thing is done soon these markets
will be dominated by the dollar
and the rouble.
“The only force that could
stand up to these two giants and
ensure its independent survival
and prosperity would be a third
unit composed of Europe and
the Commonwealth.”
The same: “The Western
European economy is growing
stronger. The six nations, who
are co-operating closely in some
of their basic industries, are so
well pleased with the results of
the Schuman Plan that they are
seeking to extend the scheme to
other parts of their economies.
A huge market freed from most
of the hindrances to trade left
by the depression is a practical
possibility. The joint capital and
technical skills of Western
Europe can together provide a
prosperity and power which, if
they are divided by frontiers,
cannot be dreamed of.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “Trade-
treaties are notoriously difficult
to work out, and it remains to
be seen how these ideas will be
translated into practice. But if
it proves possible a great step
will have been taken towards
stimulating world trade and
towards strengthening a market
of 250-million people, to say
nothing of the political
strengthening of Western
Europe—still, in every sense, one
of the greatest regions in the
world. The establishment of
the common market may change
for the better the balance of
power among the nations for
years ahead. It deserves, to be
vigorously promoted.”
The same: “On balance it
looks as though closer economic
co-operation on the Continent
could do great good. The same
cannot be said of the attempts
being made to carry Britain
towards closer political commit-
ments on the Continent. The
prime mover in these endeavors
is Dr. Adenauer, the West Ger-
man Chancellor. His motives
appear to be mixed. To some
extent he is probably moved by
his old wish to see a closely-
united Western Europe arise—a
Europe bouhd together not so
much by economic links as by
those of a common religion and
culture. Endeavors in this
sense go back to the Chancellor’s
earliest days of office in 1949.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail ”: “The
new Customs Uniop is being
formed now. If Britain stands
aside she will inevitably face the
intense competition of an
economic bloc with advantages
denied her, and led by popu-
lous, industrious, ambitious
Germany.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“This [Customs Union] would, of
course, involve the sacrifice of
the modest measure of Imperial
Preference achieved at Ottawa
in 1932 and since whittled down.
It would mean the total aban-
donment of the attempt to create
an Empire Economic Union on
the Ottawa foundations. Instead
it would open wide the door of
the Empire market to the Euro-
pean industrial nations.
“It would be a major act
of policy, revolutionary and
catastrophic.”
The same: “What is the plan?
That the Commonwealth and
Western Europe should form a
low-tariff area moving, over 10
years, toward Free Trade.
“Who would benefit? Britain,
it is said, would gain more from
a ‘broad market’ in Europe than
from Empire trade.
“But there is no natural
market in Europe for British
goods and no impulse to create
one. AH that is certain is that
the Germans would gain, and
gain immensely. The Empire
door would be opened to their
exporters, who are not weighed
down with defence-taxes like
British firms.”
The same: “Who would lose?
First, British industry—stripped
of its preferred position in
Empire markets.
“Second, Commonwealth in-
dustries—compelled to-face low-
cost European competition on
the same terms as they now meet
British competition.”
The same: “If Britain enters
even a partial Free Trade area
in Europe then she. moves
towards an acceptance of
European living-standards. That
is inevitable.
“It is impossible with a Free
Trade system to have a high
standard of life in one area and
a lower standard in another.
“In the early stages Britain
will face savage competition
from German manufacturers.
The Volkswagen will fight the
Morris Minor on equal terms.
On ipore than equal terms,
London “Daily Express"
“SAY, CAN’T YOU GUYS READ AMERICAN?”
because the Germans have no
defence taxation comparable
with Britain’s.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“If the European economy con-
tinues to be divided up by the
frontiers of a historic past, it can-
not compete with the Continental
economies of America or Russia.
All the European Powers need a
European market: this is the
chance to create one.”
The same: “Clearly one can-
not have a reorganisation of a
country’s trading system on this
scale without some interests
being seriously damaged. Part of
the negotiation of the introduc-
tion of a Free Trade area would
have to be concerned with eas-
ing the period of transition and
with reducing the damage to a
minimum.
“Broadly speaking one can say
that the more highly competitive
an industry is the more it will
stand to gain from this plan and
the less it has to fear. Free
Trade in Europe will offer better
opportunities in new markets at
the expense of stiffer competition
at home. In its present mood
the British motor-car industry
might well feel more alarmed
than hopeful. On the other hand
in two or three years’ time the
dominant position of a genera-
tion-old German design may
have been lost.”
The same: “The motor-car
industry offers the strongest illus-
tration of the potential advant-
ages of the Free Trade area.
However, Free Trade is bound to
accelerate the process of
rationalisation and specialisation
which is already taking place in
most countries. The strong firms
will see it as widening their
opportunity, but for the weak
firms in the car industry Free
Trade will seem to be a most
serious threat. Throughout all
industries the result of this pro-
cess must be greater
specialisation.”
The same: “There are also
international political considera-
tions which are perhaps the most
important of all. Unless Britain
enters and leads the Free Trade
area our international position
must be prejudiced. If it is set-
up without us Germany will
dominate Western Europe. If
we try to wreck the scheme we
incur the hostility of Western
Europe. We have, therefore, the
strongest possible political
reasons to accept this plan. It is
fortunate that it is also a plan
which offers solid economic
advantages. If we now create a
European market of continental
size it is likely to dominate the
history of the next generation.”
* *
London “Time and Tide” : “In
1944 President Roosevelt postu-
lated that the two great republics,
American and Soviet, standing
shoulder to shoulder, each the
sentinel in its own hemisphere,
would together guarantee the
peace and order of the world.
The implication was that the
lesser fry, including ourselves
[Britain], would walk circum-
spectly under the legs of the two
colossi. But for Russian
intransigence, this might be the
position today, and it is still
plausible to argue that the world
is moving towards the universal
Welfare State under the domin-
ance of either Russia or the
U.S.A.
“No sensible person wishes to
set up a Third Force merely as a
revolt against a totalitarian
regime on the one side and what
some people denounce as a Coca-
Cola civilisation on the other.
There is a positive case for
European co-operation
independent of this narrow view.
“In our lifetime the small
peninsula which constitutes
Europe has nearly wrecked itself
with its blood-feuds and inter-
necine strife. Even today the
European equivalent of a trip
from New York to Chicago
involves a clutter of passports,
visas, carnets and Customs
inspections which could hardly
be worse if they had been
deliberately designed to prejudice
human welfare.”
The same: “A European
Free Trade area, possibly
embracing the Commonwealth,
is a formidable concept, with
vast complications calculated to
deter the boldest spirit. But it
would be a great adventure, and,
if the Old World is to find salva-
tion, in what other direction
shall it move? The new pro-
posals call for great imagination
and great courage, and it is
inconceivable that they should
be dismissed for lack of both.”
♦ * *
London “Econom i s t ” :
“Europe, which has lately
shown such remarkable eco-
nomic vigor even in the strait-
jacket of its present frontiers,
will face wholly new perspectives
if it becomes an open market of
over 200-million people. For
British industry such a market
opens up a great future. To
shirk it is to invite senility. And
the Government which offers a
lead in creating such a market
may be taking a step historically
as decisive and valuable for both
Britain and Europe as Marshall
Aid.”
Cyprus
Summing-up the eighteen-
month-old Eoka (terrorist) cam-
paign against the British in
Cyprus, London “News
Chronicle” notes that “205
people have been killed (61 of
them British) and 79 have been
injured since the campaign
began”:
“When the figures are broken-
down the picture becomes a good
deal more revealing. While there
were 70 deaths in Eoka’s first
year of action, there have been
134 (nearly double) in the past
six .months. Fifty-two deaths
occurred before the deportation
of Makarios, and 153 since.
“It is always possible that the
terrorists are near extinction,
and statistics can be misleading;
but there is not much sign here
that either the military measures
or the Archbishop’s exile have
had any effect but to increase the
tempo of terrorism and murder.”
Also commenting on Maka-
rios, “Yorkshire Post” adds that
“the booklet entitled ‘Terrorism
in Cyprus,’ published by the
Stationery Office, shows the
powerful part played by Arch-
bishop Makarios”:
“In a letter of January 29,
1955, for instance, the rebel
leader Grivas acknowledges that
he will lay down his arms only
if the Archbishop commands
him to do so. Elsewhere Grivas
refers to a demonstration of
Nicosia pupils which he ordered
and to organising a ‘general up-
rising of the youth in the towns
and country’; and it appears
that these activities had the
Archbishop’s blessing.
“In another place Grivas
speaks of the Archbishop as the
‘real leader of the national
liberation struggle,’ and he
records how the Archbishop
arranged for the purchase of
arms from Greece.
“All this goes to show how
dangerous a man the Arch-
bishop was and could become
again if the [U.K.] Govern-
ment were to show a mis-
placed readiness to give him his
freedom. But it also illustrates
the very special position held by
the Archbishop, and suggests,
though it does not prove, that
it may be very hard to find a
negotiating partner enjoying
equal authority.
“In fact the Government is
giving no sign of any such
weakness. But its task is hard,
since it is bound to follow two
courses between which a
measure of conflict exists. On
the one hand it is bound to


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
FutHl in Hie
Future
The urge to travel is strong in most of us. Our
dreams embrace the hope that some day we may
be able to take a journey on a placid sea.
It is certainly a refreshing experience to board
a spacious liner and accept its modern comforts.
We know where we are going, radio communi-
cations keep us in touch with the outside world;
there are memorable places to see, friends waiting
to greet us when we come to harbour.
How different were the voyagers of the mariners
whose discoveries made the founding of Australia
possible! They sailed in ships not much bigger
than our coastal fishing trawlers; with casks of
water and slabs of salted meat as their staples in
food; knowing no device to tell of the approach of
storms.
For months, sometimes years, they had to
make their courses blindly. Every day was a new
mystery to them.
I draw this comparison because I believe the
progress of Australia is very much like that of an
ocean liner. Inevitably we meet the turbulences.
We sail sometimes through days that are less bright
than the yesterdays and tomorrows.
But the ship is sturdy, its power potential
strong. It has the means of thrusting on to greater
speed, of making its course in confident directions.
Like all ships, it must go by careful charting
to avoid the shoals, with wise navigation from
the bridge, and with the loyalty of all on whose
work its safety swings.
There the parallel ends. For I think we can
agree that in Australia today there is no room for
“passengers.” We’ve all to work our way on this
vessel, launched as it is to the fast-running currents
of the world.
We should think back to the casks of water
and salted meat —and thank God that we’ve been
given the opportunity.
$
7
Philadelphia (U.S.A.) “Bulletin”
WEB OF INFLUENCE
restore law and order, and it is
bound to do so within the frame-
work of a liberalised though
necessarily circumscribed Con-
stitution. The Constitution will
have to be imposed, and it may
be felt as an irritation rather
than a boon.
“And at the same time an
assurance must be provided that
the island will remain a secure
base for British troops, as well
as French ones, if the critical
position brought about by the
trouble over Suez persists—as it
is likely to do. It would be a
betrayal of national interests to
give up this vital bastion of the
Middle East and let Archbishop
Makarios get his way by a policy
of murder.”
U.S. Elections
Barely a few weeks ago the
U.S. Presidential elections were
popularly regarded as a walk-
over for Eisenhower; lately,
however—possibly as a wishful
injection of tension into the con-
test —both British and American
commentators are reflecting a
note of uncertainty.
Patrick O’Donovan, Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” corres-
pondent, notes from Washington,
for instance, that “the possibility
that President Eisenhower might
be beaten in the November elec-
tions” is “for the first time being
seriously discussed in America,”
and London “Daily Telegraph”
comments editorially that “far
from the election being a
Republican triumph, it now
looks as if Mr. Stevenson stands
at least an even chance of reach-
ing the White House.”
Such seasoned American com-
mentators as Walter Lippmann
and Stewart Alsop also discern
symptoms of some shift in public
feeling.
Lippmann, noting that “there
are few who doubt that the elec-
tion is a contest in which the
Democrats stand to make
important gains in Congress, and
have a fighting chance for the
Presidency,” goes on to attribute
th; new strength of the Demo-
cratic party to the fact that “it
is in one of its periods of revival,
as in the early days of Wilson
and again of Roosevelt.”
The “arrival of a new genera-
tion,” Lippmann adds, has con-
tributed to this revival, while
there is “little evidence of a
corresponding revival, due to the
rise of a new generation, within
the Republican party”:
“The Republican party lacks
vigor because the new political
generation has not yet obtained
control of the party. The party
is in the control of men who
are not vigorous.”
Alsop, commenting particu-
larly on the farm-vote, notes as
“a small, strange phenomenon,”
encountered repeatedly in the
“corn-hog” country, the number
of farmers who voted for Eisen-
hower in 1952 but intend voting
“Democratic” this time.
Alsop interprets this as a switch
from Republican to Democratic
sympathies rather than from
Eisenhower to Stevenson:
“Many farmers are being
pulled in one direction by their
liking for the President, and in
another direction by their
Economic dissatisfaction. Much
will depend on the outcome of
this inner struggle.”
London “Daily Telegraph”
adds that something of the same
phenomenon took place in 1945
in this country [Britain]:
“Mr. Churchill, as he then was,
received massive ovations where-
ever he; went, but the voters,
when it came to the polling,
supported Mr. Attlee. There
are many indications that the
divided loyalty is affect-
ing the American electorate to-
day.
“The best evidence that the
Republicans are seriously
worried is the fact that Presi-
dent Eisenhower has abandoned
any idea of conducting what is
called a ‘front-porch’ campaign.
“Until a few weeks ago it
was assumed that his personal
popularity was so firm that it
would be enough for him to
appear a few times on television
to ensure his victory. Now,
however, he is to stamp the
country, like any other candidate
who cannot afford to miss any
opportunity for enlisting the
stray vote.”
Socialist Equality
Commenting on Harold Wil-
son’s pamphlet for the British
Labor Party on “equality,”
Cyril Osborne, M.P., asks, in a
letter to London “Daily Tele-
graph,” “how much could the
British wage-earner expect to get
from a further redistribution of
the national income?”:
“Already over two-thirds goes
to people getting between £5 and
£l5 a week, excluding those who
get less. If the top income were
£2OOO net, those below would
get an extra Is. 2d. a week!
“If this levelling-down policy
were made more drastic, would
it not drive abroad our ablest
scientists and technicians? Some
universities are already losing
over 50 per cent, of their Ph.D.s
to Canada and the United States
because salaries there are four
times ours [Britain’s]. In this
atomic age, should we all not be
poorer if these men were driven
to emigrate?
“Mr. Wilson says the immense
differences in living-standards
between nations are intolerable.
What would be the effect upon
our workers’ standard of living
under his international-Socialist-
egalitarianism?
“In 1949 the United Nations
gave these estimates of the
average national incomes per
week:
. , , s. d. s. d.
Afghanistan . 4 9 Indonesia . 2 5
Burma 3 5 Irak 8 2
Ceylon .... 6 5 Korea (S.) 3 4
China 2 7 Pakistan ..411
Egypt 9 7 Persia .... 8 2
Ethiopia .... 3 8 Sau. Arabia 3 10
India ...... 5 5 Thailand ..3 5
United Kingdom 745. 4d.
“If the total incomes of these
15 countries were divided by the
total populations the average
weekly wage would be just over
7s. That is what ‘fair shares’
could do for the British worker.”
Saar Agreement
Commenting on the final
settlement of the Saar question
between Germany and France
the Saar returns to Germany
next January in accordance with
the expressed vote of the Saar-
landers ; Germany has agreed to
a conversion of currency from
francs to marks at a rate
favorable to France; and the
Moselle Canal, vital to France’s
Lorraine, is to be constructed
with Germany bearing any costs
above those agreed-upon last
June —New York “Herald
Tribune” opines that “the peace-
ful settlement of this problem
at the conference-table augurs
well for the future progress of
Western Europe”:
“Increased economic col-
laboration between the two
former enemies should mean a
stronger group of nations this
side of the Iron Curtain. If co-
operation can replace distrust,
if friendly relations can be sub-
stituted for the enmity which
has existed over the last century,
the free world will have gained
much.
“For although this settlement
does not measure up to the hopes
of many Saarlanders that the
area would constitute the first
Europeanised State, the hopes
that the Saar may contribute to
a unified Europe are not dead.
As French Premier Guy Mollet
said after the final agreement
had been reached: ‘The Saar is
behind us —now we can get on
with Europe.’ ”
West German Army
Nato planning for a German
contribution of 12 divisions
towards the defence of Western
Europe having stipulated a mini-
mum call-up period for German
conscripts of 18 months, the
planners have been somewhat
disconcerted by West German
Chancellor Adenauer’s decision
to reduce the call-up to 12
months.
The German decision has also
been wryly received by some of
the countries already contribut-
ing to Germany’s .defence —
London “News Chronicle,” for
instance, comments that it was
“unfortunate” that Adenauer,
“the doughtiest proponent of
European unity,” should have
been forced by political pressure
to announce the reduction in
conscript service on the same
day that British Prime Minister
Eden promised that “Britain will
henceforth look more kindly on
co-operation with Europe.”
“Manchester Guardian” also
attributes the Adenauer decision
to political pressure—“a large
part of the German electorate
now dislikes rearmament, and
conscription most of all” —and
Edinburgh “Scotsman” com-
ments that “the new decision
means that Germany will have
conscripts under arms for too
short a time to train them in
modern methods or to find
n.c.o.s and officers among the
conscripts”:
“One of two things must
follow. Either Germany will fail
to meet her share of the common
defence-burden, or she will
enlist far more regulars than
conscripts, and her effective
power will be in a large regular
army.
“As few regular volunteers
have come forward from
untainted sources, the 12-month
decision contains an unspoken
invitation to the very sizeable
remnants of Hitler’s criminal S.S.
organisation, the bulk of whom
were recently made eligible for
reinstatement in their former
Nazi ranks by an administra-
tive ruling of the Federal per-
sonnel committee for military
affairs.”
Slightly less pessimistic,
London “Economist” hopes that
“the decision may not in fact
prove very damaging”:
“Though the call-up is to be
cut, the West German Govern-
ment has promised to fulfil its
obligation to provide half-a-
million men for Nato by enlisting
70,000 more regulars to make
up a force of 300,000 men. Such
a large regular force may prove
better adapted to future military
needs, as well as to the special
German possibility of civil war,
than a larger conscript force.
“And the new plans have
narrowed the difference of view
between the German Socialists
and the Christian Democrats, a
factor which may make it easier
to construct a coalition after the
next election.
“Dr. Adenauer’s decision will
no doubt also have the desired
electoral effect. Two months ago
‘much of the German press
seemed to feel that the political
problem of the day was what
sort of coalition should be built
upon the Chancellor’s grave. But
his prestige has now begun to
revive, partly because of a
vigorous party press-campaign.
Talk of coalitions year still
tends either toward the idea of a
Christian Democrat - Socialist
coalition, perhaps under Dr.
Arnold, or of a Socialist-Free
Democrat coalition; but Dr.
Adenauer is showing remarkable
signs of life.”
Peter Thomey croft (President
of Britain’s Board of Trade):
“If we [Great Britain] are not
competitive with Europe we shall
go down to disaster in any cir-
cumstances. We will not help
ourselves by dodging the realities
of the situation: we can gain
much by facing it.”


Giovanni is still too much under
the influence of the splendid
Count Almaviva he played in
“Figaro.” The Count is likewise
an accomplished lecher, but he
must always be looking around
suspiciously to see which of his
household will be the next to
hoodwink him. The Don is a
younger man with a more care-
less air of dash and vigor.
Shaw was hindered by a beard
that suggested Roy Rene and a
first-act costume that was much
too narrow around the shoulders.
His stage-presence and flexible
baritone carried him through
well enough, but his performance
will be more exciting when he
plays with more relish than at
present.
The most engaging role of the.
evening was the mincing Zerlina
of Valda Bagnall. She flirted
with the Don and allayed the
suspicions of Masetto (Neil
Warren-Smith) with great charm,
singing well even during the
fussiest bits of stage-action.
Joyce Simmons did not draw
much sympathy from the part of
the wronged Donna Anna, but
she provided some of the sheer
vocal thrills of the opera. Max
Worthley was her protector, Don
Ottavio, and managed to keep a
smooth and beautiful vocal line
in the two fiendishly difficult
tenor arias, “Dalla sua pace” and
“II mio tesoro.” Here the
costume-designer apparently took
the usual view that Ottavio is
the most ineffective hero in
opera, dressing him too much
like a stuffed shirt.
Producer Dennis Arundell was
determined to allow no coyness
in the lovesick Donna Elvira,
turning her very unfairly into a
figure of fun. TTiis did not allow
Nita Maughan much repose
physically or vocally, though
she made the best of the situation
and gave us a full-blooded
Spanish virago who certainly
had character, though Mozart
would have hardly recognised
her.
Much chillier was the
Commendatore of Stanley Clark-
son, who made an impressive
entry into the Don’s supper-
room, looking every inch a figure
from the graveyard. The rolling
chords in the orchestra shivered
the spine, and Giovanni went to
hell in a fine flash of red smoke
and fire.
With the reservations
mentioned, Kenneth Rowell’s
scenery and costumes were hand-
somely done, notably in the
sumptuous ballroom scene. The
Queensland Symphony Orchestra
had settled down happily to the
business of being an opera
orchestra, and under Eric Clap-
ham’s direction achieved the best
Mozartian playing yet. Some
of the great ensembles need more
polish to achieve the subtlety
Mozart intended, but the singers
as a whole were on their mettle
—possibly because of the
presence in the audience of the
celebrated soprano Sena Jurinac,
lately arrived from Europe to
rehearse for the Olympic Season
in Melbourne.
D.J M.
♦♦♦
“Cosi Fan Tutte”
The fourth Mozart opera
offered to Brisbane has never
seriously challenged the Mozart
“big three” in the box-office
stakes, but on musical grounds
alone it may well be awarded a
victory on points. Certainly not
on plot!
Mozart’s move to the intimate
style of opera after his successes
with the broader “Figaro” and
“Don Giovanni” is in some ways
similar to Beethoven’s shift from
the Ninth Symphony to chamber-
music. And as with Beethoven,
it may well be asserted that some
of Mozart’s loveliest music is to
be found in the poised serenity
of “Cosi’s” ensembles.
These are most characteristic
of the opera. In their glow the
brilliance of the arias seems to
be subdued and assimilated into
the texture of the whole work.
“Don Giovanni,” for example,
runs perilously close at times
to being a succession of magni-
ficent arias, but in “Cosi” the
regular, gentle swell crests for a
moment into an aria, only to
subside into the sunlit expanse
of ensemble-singing without
parallel in operatic music.
From curtain-rise to curtain-
set it demands nothing less than
flawless teamwork from its small
team of six singers, and, in
commenting upon individual per-
formances, it is impossible to
overlook the uniform excellence
of those combined efforts, from
duets to sextets, which comprise
the mainstream of the opera.
To both the acting and singing
of Graziano, John Cameron
brought true style and ease and a
natural gaiety not immediately
sensed in his recent Figaro. As
Ferrando, his fellow-officer,
Kevin Miller was at his best in
duets with Cameron, where this
“I forget the name of it, but it Was in a green bottle
and made me feel lovely."
ease of style was apparently
infectious. In arias, however,
Miller tended to force the lyrical
quality of his voice beyond its
natural power.
Over the absurd plot concern-
ing the infidelity of the fiancees
of these two soldiers presides its
originator, Don Alfonso.
Geoffrey Chard, only last week
a lovable, shy bush-boy of a
Papageno, was so at home in the
role of this cynical old bachelor
that he gave the impression of
acting the part, using a baritone
voice of dignity and power
almost incidentally, as it were, as
a substitute for speech.
In singling-out Marjorie
Conley’s Fiordiligi for special
praise, one is conscious of an
injustice to Jenifer Eddy’s roguish
Despina, and to the superb
partnership with which Eunice
McGowan complemented Miss
Conley. However, nothing that
she has done before has so borne
the hallmarks of world-promise.
More dramatic sense and perhaps
bigger tone are still needed to
cope with the arias, but these
attributes will come with
experience.
Stefan Haag’s productibn
remains as it was for the
Victorian Opera in 1953—over-
colored perhaps, but with an
over-all charm and feeling for
the baroque that more than
compensate for its occasional
shortcomings.
Val Vallis.
❖ *i*
“H.M.S. Pinafore”
The Gilsullivan season at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, wound-un
with “H.M.S. Pinafore.” The
company has plenty of amiability,
and, as amiability is the keynote
of Gilbert’s skit on the Queen's
Navee, everything went cheer-
fully along towards the close of
the season.
As Captain Corcoran, the fond
and forgiving commander of an
amiable crew of British sailors,
Eric Thornton is excessively
cheerful; Terence O’Donohue,
the common seaman who is
desperately in love with his
captain’s daughter, is inveterately
jolly; Helen Roberts, as the
captain’s lovely but rebellious
offspring, makes light of her
misfortunes in a costume which
would make any able seaman
dance a hornpipe.
Grahame Clifford, as the Rt.
Hon. Sir Joseph Porter, K.C.8.,
is so genially self-deprecatory
that he might be talking about
somebody else other than the
First Lord; and even Dick
Deadeye (Richard Walker)
seems happy to expose his moral
and physical deformities to the
public gaze, while Muriel
Brunskill supplies Little Butter-
cup with a very light contralto
and a not-too-portly figure. Sir
Joseph Porter’s aunts are as
merrily adolescent a§ his sisters
and his cousins.
Leo Packer deserves an
approving adjective for his con-
ducting of Sullivan’s more-or-
less Mozartian music.
Artbursts
Graphic Artists
Prints by the ..Melbourne
Graphic Artists are showing at
the Peter Bray Galleries in
Bourke-street. Most of the
exhibitors are also painters, and
it must be said that, generally
speaking, their drawings look
much niqer than their paintings.
When they have a pen or a pencil
in their hands they seem to be
much more responsible to their
subject-matter than when they
have a brush and palette.
David Dalgarno uses a clean
line in two nudes; Verdon
Morcom has a sketch of some
musicians with not enough color
in it to spoil its freshness ; lan
Armstrong’s “Girl Dressing Her
Hair” is quite expressive ; Edith
Wall draws “Terraced Houses”
and “Ballarat” in a neat archi-
tectural fashion, and Mary Mac-
Queen has a lively-looking still
life. The addition of unrelated
dabs of color wouldn’t improve
any of these pictures.
»>
Modern Italian Art
The N. S. Wales National-
Gallery is showing, for one
month, an exhibition of 20th-
century Italian painting and
sculpture.
The exhibition is a “survey
of the most representative aspects
of the plastic arts in Italy during
the last 50 years, beginning with
the work of the Futurist painters,
Balia, Boccioni, Severini, Sironi.
etc.; continuing with the ‘Nove-
cento’ painters, Campigli, Carra
and others, with a large repre-
sentative showing of many of the
younger Italian painters whose
work has not been seen in this
country.”
Talkies
“The Fastest Gun Alive”
(M.-G.-M. theatres): Taut sus-
pense and a clinking climax,
built-up with great deliberation
and skill, distinguish this high-
class Western. A quiet, inoffen-
sive storekeeper in a hamlet is
forced to fire his first shot in
anger when an outlaw who has
heard of his crack-shot reputa-
tion challenges him. Glenn
Ford’s usual portrait of fast
reflexes but slow speech are well
suited to the story, as is
Broderick Crawford’s emphasis
on silent menace.
“Away All Boats” (Sydney
State): The overstatement which
Hollywood brings so often to
its semi-documentary war-films
—and the touches of senti-
mentality dropped in for box-
office —do much to cut-down the
good effect made by convincing
battle-scenes and a few worth-
while individual performances in
this film-version of a best-seller.
Jeff Chandler, as the captain who
sets out to make, his landing-
craft mother-ship the most effi-
cient in the Navy, and George
Nader, as one of his officers who
dislikes his methods but admires
his seamanship, turn in good
work.
“King’s Rhapsody” (Hoyts
theatres): This British musi-
comedy has a basic plot of
wondrous artificiality (about a
playboy Ruritanian King, his
mistress and his wed-for-State-
reasons young wife), stilted
dialogue and stuffy situations. It
also has Errol Flynn, who has
blown-up to almost Billy Bunter
proportions, and Anna Neagle,
who is getting a bit past romantic
leads. The few pretty-pretty Ivor
Novello tunes wear thin with
repetition.
“Vera Cruz” (Hoyts theatres):
By gar’ he da strong Mexicano,
Gilbert Roland. Plenty muse’,
moocha determmado to bringa
da ass-loads of gold to Pancho
Villa and hees-a revoluzionaires,
but bad-good man Senor Rory
Calhoun no trust heem, though
he ees paid to protect bullion
weeth ver’ fast six-shooter.
Director of film, he seem to be
affected by moocha heat —ver’
sluggish action. This senor fell
into siesta during ver’ phony
battle weeth Gov’ment irregulars
and Pancho’s senors.
hold, and the bagged nuts were
stowed on deck.
As we moved from village to
village, heading towards more
exposed positions on the coast,
the style of the canoes deteri-
orated. They became tiny little
shells only six- or eight-feet long,
without the high gunwales of the
seagoing vessels belonging to the
navigator tribes.
“Good seamen live in safe
anchorages,” Ralph said. “These
fellows only venture out when
the water’s flat calm. Whenever
it blows you’ll find them in their
gardens.”
Some of these people bought
lines and fish-hooks.
“They’re good trade at the
end of the South-east only,”
Ralph said. “After the winds
have all died away, these people
begin to think of doing a little
fishing. But it’s only a pastime
with them. They’re not seamen.”
It was a market-day for the
betelnut villages, and it had
something of the festival nature
of market-days anywhere. At
Nada, on the south-west corner
of Fergusson Island, a young girl
dressed in a short grass-skirt, with
a huge bushknife stuck along her
backbone into the band of it,
paddled backwards and forwards,
hoping, as adolescents do, that
by the purest of accidents she
would attract male attention.
First she came out and sold
her betelnut biscuits and
tobacco —then she went to the
beach and paddled about with
a screaming little sister. She
tired of that, found another
bunch of betel somewhere,
and returned, getting in the way
of other canoes and screaming
whenever collision seemed
imminent.
She sang a snatch of song,
begged a tow to shore from
Mwapweia in the dinghy, yelled
advice —abuse later —at other
adolescents selling their nuts, and
at certain matrons of the tribe,
who sat with dignity, looking
faintly disapproving, as matrons
anywhere regard the antics of
the young girl not so well
brought up.
Another girl of the same age
brought in a canoe-load of nuts
to sell. The two exchanged
pleasantries, but after her trans-
actions were completed the
second girl went primly home.
Some conducted their business
from the familiar haven of their
canoes. Others deposited their
baskets and kips and bunches of
betel on the deck, followed-up
with their bottles for kerosene,
their baskets, broad leaves,
wooden bowls, calico strips or
basins for rice and sugar ; then
lifted their babies and younger
children on deck and came
aboard, ready for business, for
gossip and a shared cigarette.
A little lad and his sister, seven
and eight years old, came
paddling up to the launch in a
laden canoe. The little girl
tendered the first bunch of nuts,
put down her head, swung back
and forth shyly with her hands
clasped against her knees and
said, “Bissi-kit.”
“I could have told you that,”
Ralph said.
He handed her four biscuits.
Another and another bunch sold
for the same commodity. The
last two bunches in the canoe
sold for rice and tobacco.
“They’re squaring-off,” Ralph
said. “They’re making their
marbles good. Rice for Mum
and tobacco for the Old Man. I
bet they pinched the stuff from
the family trees.”
In the most remote villages
the essentials of trading—rice,
sugar, tobacco, kerosene and
biscuits—were replaced by a
strong demand for normal store-
items like pots, basins, soap,
tinned-sardines, tinned-beef and,
because of the imminence of
Christmas, a vast quantity of
hair-oil, cheap and potent scent,
powder, lipstick (not necessarily
for lips) and grass dyes for
brilliant skirts.
Tins of fish were the most
popular food-lines, a strange
commentary on the people whose
daily protein came from the sea ;
from the crabs, prawns, oysters,
fish, whitebait and shellfish that
could be collected for little effort
in huge quantities.
When at last we sailed for the
Trobriands, Ralph looked
contentedly at the cargo. There
were 40 bags on deck, 40 in the
hold, a heap of green betel
forward and a larger heap of
prime, well-ripened, beautifully-
colored nuts at the side of the
wheelhouse.
As we steamed for Losuia the
boys swarmed over the ship,
tying the big brilliant bunches
to the masthead, to the rigging,
swinging them from the booms
and the awnings, decorating the
ship like a Christmas-tree.
For there is an excitement in
the nut, and it was beginning to
work. These were the fresh
nuts of the new season^


SMI)H
hiim /.ItVJ/tVONOiI
AiaidOHd anoA doiiAia
V.
fCe-wroAre#
Co*c*ere
WELL
LININGS
• Fire Resistant.
• Protection for your
underground water
supply.
• Lengths of 4 ft. with
diameters 36"-50".
• Practically Everlast-
ing. A #
111 MCS LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN:
Adamstown, Grafton, Harden, Llsmore,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tamworth. H 2
Missing Friends
TO VICTOR FORBES LEWIN late of
Ontario Avenue Mildura. —TAKE NOTICE
that an action has been commenced against
you in the Supreme Court of Victoria
1956 No. 4 by WALTER THOMAS
GEORGE LEWIN of Ontario Mildura in
which the Plaintiff’s claim is for £1,300
money lent on the 25th day of August
1952 AND that it has been ordered that
service of the Writ in the said action on
you be effected by this advertisement If
you desire to defend the said action you
must on or before the Third day of
November 1956 enter an appearance in
the Pyothonotary’s Office in the Law
Courts Mildura In default of such appear-
ance judgment may be entered against
you.—PERCY T. PARK & HILLARD,
Plaintiff’s Solicitors. Dated the Fifth
day of October, 1956.
TO VICTOR FORBES LEWIN late of
Ontario Avenue Mildura. —TAKE NOTICE
that an action has been commenced
against you in the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria 1956 No. 5 by The Mildura Co-
operative Fruit Company Limited of Bth
Street Mildura in which the Plaintiff’s
claim is for £1,793/7/4 for goods sold
and delivered and money lent and inter-
est thereon between August 1952 and
August 1956 AND that it has been
ordered that service of the Writ in the
said action on you be effected by this
advertisement If you desire to defend the
said action you must on or before the
Third day of November 1956 enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office in
the Law Courts Mildura In default of
such appearance judgment may be
entered against you. —PERCY T. PARK
& HILLARD, Plaintiff’s Solicitors.' Dated
the Fifth day of October, 1956.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JAMES COLES, late of 4
Goldie Avenue Waverley.—TAKE NOTICE
that MABEL FLORENCE ETHEL COLES
has filed Petition for Divorce No. 2891 of
1950 on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
file an appearance in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 3rd
of January 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from LESLIE
RUNDLE, 66 King Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO PHILIP EDWARD FOWLER late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that GRACE
LILLIAN FOWLER has filed her Petition
for Divorce No. 3290 of 1956 on the
ground of repeated assaults and cruel beat-
ings during one year prior, to the presen-
tation of the Petition herein If you
intend to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 28th day
of December 1956 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MR.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN LITTLE THOMSON late of
33 Johnson Street Chatswood near Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that FAITH MARY
THOMSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2359 of 1956 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 2nd January 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. J. R. MCCLEL-
LAND & CO., Solicitors, of 55 Rowe
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO FRANCIS WILLIAM CHINN Re-
spondent late of Nessfield nr. Ilkley Eng-
land. —A Petition for Divorce has been
filed against you Upon an application by
letter to the District Registrar District
Registry of the High Court Albion Place
Leeds England a copy of the Petition will
be sent If within 80 days hereafter no
application has been made no appearance
entered the Court may hear the Petition
and pronounce judgment.—J. H. LAWTON,
District Registrar.
TO PATRICIA ISOBEL WARD formerly
of Mosman Park W.A. —TAKE NOTICE
that your husband FRANCIS GILBERT
WARD has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of desertion by you for a con-
tinuous period of three years or more or
alternatively on the ground of separation
of the parties for a continuous period of
not less than five years there being no
reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being
resumed IF you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence
'in the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within FORTY clear days from
the date of this publication In default
of your so doing the cause may proceed
and the Court will pronounce Judgment
and make orders against you in your
absence. DATED this 16th day of
October, 1956. —G. J. BOYLSON, Regis-
trar. FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, of
38 Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place,
Perth, Western Australia, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
CLEAR 5 ACRES AN HOUR
wrjwy
smm
L
Patent No. 156596
m
& s>
mw
> s
* a *
s
OPERATING COSTS ONLY I/-AN ACRE!
• Fits any tractor P.T.O. Clears an
Bft. strip.
• High tensile Manganese alloy steel
chains harden with use.
• Adjustable friction type coupling
cushions shock loads.
• Price only £l9B F.0.R., F. 0.8., all
capital cities.
• The “Arthur” Rotary Slasher
will clear 5 to 7 acres an hour,
even in tough, dense growth and
operating costs average only 7/6
an hour! Bring YOUR pest-
smothered land into production in
one season! increase your land
values overnight 1 Arrange a
demonstration with your nearest
Distributor!
TODSON
Write to the Manufacturers for Illustrated Literature
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS— S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Power Plant Ltd. VIO. : Moore
Road Machinery Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: Wigmores Ltd.;
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe; British Tractors
Pty. Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day and Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle
Motors, Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. N.Z.: Andrews & Beaven, Ltd., 369
Moorhouse Road, Christchurch. Export Enquiries to Manufacturers .
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Calls or directions for the quadrilles
and any other old set-dances. —6410.
To sell copies of the following:
Many Cargoes and Salthaven, by
\V. W. Jacobs ; Tolstoy’s Tales from
Sevastopol and Two Generations;
Jack London and Hawaii, by Mrs. J.
Loudon; The Jazz Singer, by Arturo
de Haas. —6411.
To sell the following: “Art in Aus-
tralia,” numbers 3,4, 5, 57; “Art in
Australia” (Norman Lindsay
number); Art of J. J. Hilder; Pen
Drawings of Norman Lindsay;
Norman Lindsay Watercolor Book;
Norman Lindsay Paintings in Oil;
Pen Drawings (autographed by
Norman Lindsay; number 434/500).
-6412.
Does Anybody Know?
Where to obtain a bell made from
a saw-blade —as once used by drovers?
Information Sought
Some details concerning James
Lionel Michael, the Australian poet
and friend of Kendall ?
Michael was born in London in
1824, and was the eldest son of a
solicitor. He was articled to his
father and began to mix in artistic and
literary circles, becoming friendly with
Millais and Ruskin and publishing a
pamphlet vindicating the position of
the pre - Raphaelite brotherhood.
Towards the end of 1853 he arrived in
Sydney and practised his profession
with some success. Michael became
friendly with Joseph Sheridan Moore,
who introduced him to Kendall, whom
he afterwards took into his office. In
1857 he published Songs without
Music, a volume of lyrics, and in
1860 John Cumberland, a long poem
largely autobiographical. In the same
year he moved to Grafton on the
Clarence River (N.S.W.) and for
a time practised successfully; but
towards the end of his life was in
money difficulties. He was drowned in
the Clarence River on April 26, 1868.
Though distinctly a minor Australian
poet Michael, through his encourage-
ment of the young Kendall, is of
special interest. His friend Joseph
Sheridan Moore wrote a book The
Life and Genius of James Lionel
Michael.
* * * *
Particulars concerning Charles
Tompson, first Australian-born poet to
publish a volume of poetry?
Tompson was born in Sydney in
1806. He was educated at the Rev.
Henry Fulton’s school at Castlereagh
(N.S.W.), and entered the N. S. Wales
public service. In 1826 he published
Wild Notes from the Lyre of a Native
Minstrel, the first volume of verse by
one of the native-born to be published
in Australia. He wrote some verse and
much prose in later life, none of which
has been collected in a volume. One
poem, “Australia,” a translation of
a Latin prize poem by S. Smith,
appeared in the “Sydney Gazette” for
December 17, 1829, and was published
shortly after as a two-paged pamphlet,
now very rare. Tompson was a clerk
of petty sessions, at Penrith (N.S.W.)
in 1836 and subsequently at Camden.
When he retired from the N. S. Wales
public service in 1869 he was Clerk oi
the Legislative Assembly. Tompson
died at Sydney on January 5, 1883.
* * * *
(1) Brief account of British writer
William Canton? (2) List of .his
works ?
(1) Born on the Isle of Chusan,
China, on Oct. 27, 1845, he was
educated in France for the priesthood,
but, deciding on a secular career, he
went in for journalism. He was for
many years sub-editor and leader-
writer of the “Glasgow Herald,” and
was later on the editorial staff of the
“Contemporary Review.” He died in
London on May 2, 1926. (2) His
publications, one or two only omitted,
were A Lost Epic and Other Poems
(1887); The Invisible Playmate, his
most famous work (1894); W.V., Her
Book; and Various Verses (1896);
The Invisible Playmate and W.V., Her
Book, with a final chapter added
(1897); A Child’s Book of Saints
(1898), republished in the U.S.A. as
W.V.’s Golden Legend; Children’s
Sayings (1900); In Memory of W.V.
(1901); A Child's Book of Warriors
(1912); St. Elizabeth of Hungary
(1912); The Bible Story (1915); Dawn
in Palestine (1918); and The Five
Colors (1924).
* * * *
What are some times throughout the
world which coincide with a particular
time at Greenwich ?
Time and Its Reckoning, by R.
Barnard Way and Noel D. Green
(1951), gives the following times at
the following places as identical with
12-noon G.M.T. (some places given
omitted)—l p.m., Yugoslavia, Italy,
Berlin, Vienna, Tunis, Nigeria; 2
p.m., Egypt, South Africa, Palestine,
Greece; 3 p.m., Aden, Madagascar,
Persia, U.S.S.R.; 4 p.m., Mauritius,
Seychelles; 5.30 p.m., India, Ceylon;
8 p.m., Western Australia, Borneo,
China; 9 p.m., Japan, Korea; 9.30
p.m., S.A.; 10 p.m., N.S.W., Vic-
toria, Queensland; 11.30 p.m., N.Z.,
Fiji, Norfolk Island; midnight, Inter-
national Date Line; 1 a.m., Samoa;
2 a.m., Hawaii, Alaska; 4 a.m., Van-
couver, San Francisco, Los Angeles;
5 a.m., Edmonton, Salt Lake City;
6 a.m., Winnipeg, Detroit, New
Orleans, Costa Rica; 7 a.m., Toronto,
Montreal, New York, Washington,
Jamaica, Panama; 8 a.m., Nova
Scotia, West Indies, Chile, Argentina;
9 a.m., Brazil; 10 a.m., Azores; 11
a.m., Iceland, Madeira, Sierra Leone;
noon, Greenwich, Belgium, France,
Spain, Portugal, Eire, Morocco, St.
Helena.
* * *
What was the Main Plot, in British
history ?
A conspiracy in 1603 to depose
James I in favor of Lady Arabella
Stewart (1575-1615), who was next in
line to James in the succession; she
was apparently unaware of the con-
spirators’ plans. Sir Walter Raleigh
and Lord Cobham, among others,
were implicated, and both were
arrested and sentenced to death, but
were later reprieved. Cobham was
kept prisoner in the Tower of Lon-
don till 1618, and Raleigh till 1616,
when he was released to lead an
expedition to Guiana. (On his return,
in 1618, Raleigh was arrested again
and executed on the charge of treason
connected with the Main Plot.) The
conspiracy was closely interwoven
with the Bye Plot (also of 16Q3, and
also foiled) designed to kidnap James
and hold him till the granting of full
religious-toleration.
Brief Answers
N.K.: Write H. Gordon Coleman,
Secretary, Australian Journalists’
Association (N.S.W. District), 166
Phillip-street, Sydney K.W.: R. S.
Porteous’s “Brigalow,” which
appeared as a serial in The Bulletin,
will be published in book-form early
next year by Angus and Robertson,
Sydney....W.B.O’C.: Write Franklin
Gill, Hon. Treasurer, Royal
Geographical Society of Australasia
(S.A. Branch) Inc., Institute Building,
North-terrace, Adelaide, S.A
R.McE.: See article “Treasure
Around Our Shores,” by Clem
McCaffrey, in The Bulletin of July
25, 1956 M. 8.: Write Mrs. D. L.
Bowman, Honorary Secretary,
Queensland Authors and Artists’
Association, Box 1871 W, G.P.0., Bris-
bane R.McL.: Arthur Hoey Davis
(“Steele Rudd”) was born at Dray-
ton (Q.) on November 14, 1868, and
died at Brisbane on October 11, 1935.
C.F.: Write E. Waters, Hon.
Secretary, Australian Folklorfc Society,
140 Palmer-street, East Sydney....
R.S.: (From Professor G. P. Shipp,
Professor of Greek, Sydney Uni-
versity.) There is no doubt that your
son has been correctly taught. Your
own pronunciation, by which Greek
words are accented as if they were
Latin, although still practised by many
scholars in England and 1 think, in
Holland, is obviously absurd. The
accentuation given by modern Greeks
to Ancient Greek is, with the excep-
tion of a few easily-explained special
cases, the same as that of Ancient
Greek as regards position, but differs
in character, being, partly at least,
stress-accent, whereas that of Classical
Greek was a pitch-accent... .V.M.
(Papua): If a permanent resident in
PSpua, you would not be entitled to a
widow’s pension. A pension would
be payable to you in Papua only if
you had first made application in Aus-
tralia, since eligibility depends on per-
manent residence in Australia. It is
necessary to have been resident in
Australia for at least five years before
making application. If you did
happen to be residentially qualified,
you would be entitled to receive a
pension at the rate of £4 ss. a week, as
you have the care, custody and con-
trol of a child under 16. You would
be permitted an income (earnings) of
£4 a week, without affecting the pen-
sion-rate. Should your earnings
exceed this amount, the pension
would be reduced accordingly. You
would be able to have property (i.e.,
money in the bank or invested, apart
from your home-property) to the value
of £1750. Suggest you write The
Director, Department of Social
Services, Australia House, 52 Carring-
ton-street, Sydney, supplying full
details Subscriber: (1) Bravo beat
the mighty Carbine in that year’s
Cup. (2) Year, 1910; moke, Trafalgar
(favorite at 9-to-2); Comedy King’s
hoop, McLachlan... .8.R.: “The
Drover’s Dream,” recorded by the
“The Bushwhackers,” is available on
Wattle record No. A-l, from most
music-stores. A broadsheet contain-
ing the words for both sides of the
disk is included, with the record....
8.K.: Anyone can be evicted —with
varying degrees of difficulty. In this
case the eviction could not take place
for two years without a notice after
the Act; then not for 18 months after
the issue of the notice; probably, in
the circumstances, not at all; and
certainly not without an offer of
alternate accommodation. Best
simply to relax and let the landlord
worry. He might decide, on the
advice of a solicitor, that it would be
easier to put the relative 0ut....
E.A.E.: The poem “I Don’t Go
Shearing Now” was written by W. A.
Woods (“John Drayman”). It
appears in Australian Bush Ballads,
edited by Douglas Stewart and Nancy
Keesing... .R.F.: Donald Mac-
donell, one-time N.S.W. Chief Secre-
tairy and general-secretary of the
Australian Workers’ Union, died on
October 22, 1911.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.E.L.8.: Come in and sing it
here: —
K.C.: Dog-tired of the oldest
inhabitant who requires a gallon of
beer before he can be persuaded to
spin his dull yarn... .A.F.: Your
friend can’t be a close reader of The
Bulletin or he wouldn’t have given
you that advice R. 8.: Will
struggle along without Mick and his
garrulous mate... .W.M.: The best
thing you can do. with all those cats
is to send them to a cats’ home....
R.L.: Arrival of poem beginning
“Hurrah! Hurrah! ’Twas a lovely
Waratah” caused no great excitement
at 252 George-street J.S.: Bash-
ful widower —lonely widow —meet-
ing in graveyard—marriage. No
thanks... .F.J.E.: Hero who was
both hypnotist and ventriloquist now
practising his arts in the basket
G.M.: Too many corpses in “The
Redex Trial Murders” for our liking.
M.F.: “This was dashed off one
lunch-hour in the office.” So it seems.
D.L.: Send it to a temperance
journal A.K.F.: Suggest that you
do the same with lengthy master-
piece beginning
Now the plonk-bars close at ten
Some wives seldom sight their men,
Who at the grape-bars guzzle, guzzle
While their spouses sit, and puzzle
Why they’re wedded to such swines,
Who only think of swilling wines.
... .E.H.: No pug who had been out
of the game for so long would ever
make such a comeback T.M.:
Domain dosser who has a flair for
writing flowery letters joins a pen-
friends’ club and wins a rich widow.
Not plurry likely.... .H.E.R.: Next
time you feel the urge to write a long
poem about the birds and the bees and
the whispering trees put on your
hat and go for a long walk 8.T.:
“Song of a Sydney Tram Conductress”
has one or two neat lines, but not
enough to sustain the whole poem.
R.W.C.: “Where and oh where is
my King’s Cross daddy gone?”
Dunno, probably somewhere to get
away from such ditties.. . .R.A.R.:
It missed by a mile... .H.L.: Try
either of the two Sydney afternoon
dailies. They seem to like that class
of short story... .G.H.: “The Hoyse-
maid in the Nylon Nightdress” was
wrapped in a manilla folder and sent
home T.R.A.: No market for
limericks 8.L.: We must admit
that your burglar was original. No
other “celebrated obstetrician,” so
far as we know, has “spent his even-
ings robbing houses when it was
thought he was delivering babies.”
“MY KINGDOM FOR A HORSE’’
King Richard the Third
In battle was heard
To offer his throne for a steed.
What would have occurred
Had someone been stirred
To come forth and cover his need?
Would Dick have demurred?
Cried “Don’t be absurd!
Egad, sir! You know I but joke!’
Or would he have sold
A birthright so bold
For one antiquated old moke?
The question, of course,
Of kingdom for horse
Is one of proportion, no doubt.
Yet I like to feel
That offer was real
And wish I’d been somewhere about!


At what age should
lambs be marked and
tailed? There is a
wide divergence of
opinion on this matter
and the recommended
age varies from one
week to three months.
The most reliable
authorities, however,
affirm that the
younger lambs are
marked the better
and that Elastrator
Rubber Rings should
be used. -
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
I
Os
CM-
-I*'
ftOU*
bo** 6
fW**^
6S?,
‘dhi-moi-
STEftfIJSEO
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CAICIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly mpplted—
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE! G tO. %m BSJ,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Boi <O5B. MELBOURNE • GJO.
80. 712 F, ADELAIDE • S.P.O. 80. 7SBK. BRISBANE
• G.P.O So. 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PERTH ROYAL SHOW
Beef Cattle
y\ESPITE a rapidly, increasing
interest in meat-production
in Western Australia, beef-cattle
entries at the Perth Royal Show
tumbled alarmingly.
Of course, many blamed the
hard season —perhaps with good
reason. A wet winter has been
followed by a thirsty spring, so
that the state of the country in
the West is in marked contrast
tc the semi-flood conditions in
eastern Australia.
Just how much, though, does
a dry spring affect Royal Show
stud-cattle enthusiasts? A more
likely explanation is labor
trouble. Several breeders said
they couldn’t find time to pre-
pare stock for competition owing
to the shortage of competent
herdsmen. Heavy sales of stud
beef-cattle this season, to meet
the demands of a rapidly
expanding industry, contributed,
too. And, for the first time for
years, the names of notable inter-
state breeders were missing from
the catalogue.
The slump came after a year
of records. Last year 238 entries
paraded. This year there were
154.
Herefords alone could boast
of increased numbers. And
the numbers brought better
quality, making D. Pratten of
Turee, Coolah (N.S.W.), an out-
standing exception among the
judges this year for his
enthusiasm. “We had heard of
the progress in the West,” he
said. “But I wasn’t prepared for
the high standard. Animals
standing at the top of line-ups
would compete well in eastern
States Shows.”
The 64 entries were more than
twice those in any other ring.
From them, the judge selected
Dirk Brook Highlight for his
junior and senior champion. A
son of Turee Fame, he was brc/d
by N. S. and C. C. Fletcher, |>f
Dirk Brook, Keysbrook (W.A.).
“A champion to compare with
anything at Brisbane or Sydney,”
was Pratten’s assessment.
Last year’s supreme champion,
Dirk Brook Fortitude, stood
second in the championship line-
up. He was paraded by E. A.
Keogh, of Kendenup (W.A.).
Bred by the Fletchers, he had
been sold to Mr. Keogh for a
Westralian record price of 1030
guineas.
L. Sawyer’s Dirk Brook Purity
111 won the female champion-
ship.
Sydney Royal Show’s junior
and reserve-senior champion
bull, Brewarrana Major 11, took
the supreme ribbon in the Poll
Hereford section. After the
Sydney Show, J. C. Money
of Coral Park, North Dandalup
(W.A.), bought the bull for 900
guineas.
Mr. Pratten, judging the Polls,
declined to award a reserve
championship in the senior bulls.
Poll Shorthorn entries stood at
15, compared with 43 last year,
when the section was the
strongest in the Show. In the
Shorthorn section, entries
In the country-show atmosphere of the Perth Royal, the A.I.S. judge assesses a bull class.
totalled six in the catalogue but
only two, both in the bull classes,
and from the same stud, com-
peted. Last year there had been
26 entries.
Nevertheless, South Australia’s
E. J. Withers, of Nalpa station,
praised the champions. E. H.
Lee Steere of Toodyay was again
the most successful exhibitor of
Poll Shorthorns.
After competing for the past
four years, L. Nicholas, of
Terinallum stud (Vic.), returned
to Perth to judge the 30 Aber-
deen Angus entries. From them,
he picked W. J. Russell’s
Wanderin Reginald as bull
champion and H. A. Trefort’s
Hillside Flower as female and
supreme champion. Mr. Russell
comes from Bilbarin (W.A.) and
Mr. Trefort from Narrogin
(W.A.).
At the auctions after the
Show, the junior and reserve-
senior Aberdeen Angus bull,
1 refort’s Hillside Emblem, sold
for 750 guineas to G. W. Maddi-
son, of Coolup (W.A.)—a State
auction record for an Aberdeen
Angus bull.
Like most of the cattle-judges,
whether beef or dairy, Mr.
Nicholas suggested that W.A.
breeders could pay more atten-
tion to the training of animals
for show-ring parading.
D. G. Walton’s Buln Gherin
Uranium won the Red Poll bull
award, the female championship
going to H. Renk and Sons’
Hanover Juliet.
Dairy Cattle
Contrasting with the beef sec-
tion, dairy-cattle numbers this
year increased from 334 to 391.
All breeds contributed evenly to
the higher numbers.
A.I.S. again dominated, with
157 entries. Judge H. C. Pickels,
from Queensland, picked Wooro-
loo Precious as his champion
cow. She was exhibited by the
Sanatorium Farm, Wooroloo
(W.A.), and “would hold her
own anywhere in Australia.” The
champion bull was Dunkley
Bros.’ Summerlea Astra.
M. W. Eckerman, of Eudunda
(S.A.), who judged the Jerseys,
picked Glenryan Rosemary,
exhibited by Sunnyside stud, Mt.
Lawley (W.A.), as his champion
cow. Bull honors went to Hope-
lands Sweet Ruler, exhibited by
A. G. Scott, of Hopelands,
Boyanup (W.A.)
In the Guernseys, the cow
award went to A. W. Padbury’s
Palomar Beau Jewel, while the
same stud, Koojan, also took the
bull championship.
W. R. Steer’s Limehill Dimple
Lad won the Friesian bull
championship, the female award
going to Glencairn Pty., Ltd.’s,
Blaweary Jewel. Ayrshire
champion cow was R. S. Irvin’s
Wattle Park Noreen. This
Toodyay (W.A.) stud also
exhibited the champion bull.
Sheep Sales
In the sheep sections, the sales
rather than the Show stole the
limelight; and John Collins and
Sons, of Collinsville, Mt. Bryan
(S.A.), took the centre of the
limelight, setting new auction
records for Perth.
Fresh from a remarkable
Adelaide sale, this . famous
Merino stud sold 25 rams at
auction for an average £696 16s.
In Elder, Smith's catalogue, the
principal line-up of 20 averaged
£B2l 135., six selling for 1000
guineas or more.
The first ram in the team sold
for 2800 guineas—a record
for Western Australia. It was
bought by J. S. Jones and Sons,
of Dowerin (W.A.).
A man who founded a stud
four years ago in lOin.-rainfall
country north-east of Perth
bought a Haddon Rig ram for
1075 guineas. He is R. W.
Walker of Dyard, Mollerin. The
Haddon Rig team of seven stud
rams averaged £457 12s.
Murray Thomas, of Strad-
brooke, Clare (S.A.), also sold to
1000 guineas. His top ram went
to New Zealand.
During the one-day sale, 276
rams sold for £63,609 at an
average of £230 9s. Lively but
selective bidding forced the
market higher than last year’s.
In the British Breed section,
M. A. Slattery, of Jamestown
(S.A.), sold the champion Dorset
Horn ram of the Show for 355
guineas to W.A. and M. Robin-
son, of York (W.A.). This is
a W.A. record at auction for a
British Breed sheep.
Another record went to South-
down breeders R. E. Burges and
Son, of Meckering (W.A.), who
sold a ram at 300 guineas to W.
Burges, of Burges Siding (W.A.),
to beat the W.A. breed record.
Sheep Judging
New names in the catalogue,
and a well-distributed prize-list,
marked the Merino section.
Judges were R. W. Lehmann, of
Flairville, Georgetown (S.A.),
and R. Jamieson, of the famous
N.S.W. Peppin stud, Uardry.
They picked the 2|-year-old
medium-wool champion ram of
Mrs. L. B. Sutherland, Loxley,
Wagin (W.A.), for their grand-
champion. Reserve grand-
champion ram, exhibited by the
same stud, came from the strong-
wool classes. The stud is pure
Collinsville blood.
R. E. • Drage, of Jib Jib,
Northampton (W.A.), exhibited
the grand-champion Merino ewe
—the extra-strong-wool cham-
pion—beating C. G. Russell and
Son’s medium-wool entry into
the reserve position. But the
Russells (of Yarlingbrook Farm,
Wickepin, W.A.) went on to take
the Ernest Lee Steere trophy for
the most points in the Merino
section. They scored 65.
Two South Australian owners,
M. A. Slattery and A. M-
Dawkins and Sons, dominated
the Dorset Horn section.
Although Mr. Slattery took the
ram championship, the Dawkins
finished as most successful
exhibitors with reserve ram
champion and champion ewe.
The reserve-champion ewe was
exhibited by J. F. Clancy, of
Miling (W.A.).
Total British Breed entries had
tumbled from last year’s 431 to
200. One breeder, W. G. Burges,
of Tipperary stud, Burges Siding
(W.A.), had been forced to
withdraw after selection. Last
year his entry contributed 120
Southdowns, Suffolks, Leicesters
and fat lambs. Another well-
known breeder, J. C. W. Weaver,
was missing, too.
Other champions in the British
Breed section were:
Border Leicesters: Ram, C. R.
McGlew, Beverley (W.A.); ewe,
same breeder.
English Leicesters: Ram,
F. N. Everitt, Duranillin (W.A.);
ewe, same.
Romney Marsh: Ram, R. H.
Rose and Son, Burekup (W-A.);
ewe, same.
Shropshires: Ram, G. L.
Burges, Meckering (W.A.); ewe,
same.
Southdowns: Ram, C. L. E.
Orton, Moore (W.A.); ewe,
M. K. Reynolds, Meckering
(W.A.).
Suffolks: Ram, S. Mclntosh,
Northam (W.A.); ewe, A. W.
Padbury, Guildford (W.A.).
Ryelands: Ram, Belvoir
Estate, Upper Swan (W.A.) ;
ewe, J. P. Stratton, Jnr., Clack-
line (W.A.).
A. C. Hookings, of Tantanoola
(S.A.), picked an entry of V. F.
Pederick and Co., Wagin (W.A.),
as his champion Corriedale ram.
The ewe championship went to
T. H. Anderson, of Katanning
(W.A.).
In the pig judging, E. H. Lee
Steere, of Hawthornden, Tood-
yay (W.A.), collected enough
points to clinch the Governor's
Cup again this year.
The Cup, which was first
awarded by Sir Gerard Smith in
1896, is for the highest aggregate
points in the four stock sections.
Wire Danger
“W.C.Q.”: They’ve found in
the U.S.A. that wire-caused
peritonitis is greatly reduced
when feed-bales are tied with
cord instead of wire. Cattle don’t
eat wire, unless they’re mighty
hungry for mineral matter, but
they swallow it accidentally when
it is mixed with chaff.
The chaffcutter gives it a keen
point for working through the
stomach-wall into the heart-
region. Sometimes it penetrates
the heart itself and may cause
sudden death, but more often
there is inflammation and pus-
t'ormation, with dropsy of the
brisket and hard breathing.
Peritonitis usually develops
whether or not the heart is
pierced. This can be recognised
by the cow suddenly stopping
eating and standing around with
“her hump up.” Peritonitis can
be a quick killer, but sometimes
hard scar-tissue forms around
the wire and pushes it back into
the stomach, and the victim
recovers.
Only a good vet. can treat this
trouble, but allowing the cow to
rest where she is will help. If
she lies down, propping up her
forequarters with sacks of earth
will help. If she recovers, careful
feeding will be necessary to get
her back into condition.
Nut-grass
“Agricola”: Nut-grass can be
controlled in the vegetable-
garden by deep digging. Remove
all nuts and underground-stems
and shake them free of soil.
Don’t throw them on the
compost-heap or they will be
dug back into the soil.
In cultivated paddocks which
are fallowed hormone-weedi-
cides are useful.
The nuts are connected by
thin, tough, underground stems.
Only one green shoot will come
from this chain. The others
won’t sprout until the end nut
dies or the chain is broken.
When this happens numerous
green shoots will appear above
ground. This explains why


DINGO DESTRUCTION
No. 14 "Oneida" Jump Trap
Outstanding efficiency as a dingo
catcher, well established in N.-W.
Queensland for over forty years,
again available as required . . .
Further particulars from—
R. J. MURPHY,
G.P.O. Box 555, Townsville (Q.),
Sole Agent for Australia.
Down comes
building
the cos
LOW
6\H'
uv««°
B«»
BiO
»&V*"
a A.C.*
tt»
me
Writs to Wunder-
lich Ltd., Dept.
"D," Box 474,
G.P.0., Sydney, foi
copy of SMALL
HOMES BOOK.
WHEN YOU USE "DURABESTOS"
FOR EXTERIOR WALLS, INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS.
you get right down to bedrock cost. You gain
both ways, because you obtain a modern, colour-
ful home, a home that is attractive, permanent
and just right for Australian living conditions.
Easy to handle, your carpenter quickly fixes
"Durabestos" Asbestos-Cement Wall and Ceiling
sheets for you—there is no waiting on other
trades. No waiting for "Durabestos" either, as
ample stocks are held by authorised timber and
hardware merchants.
DtIRABISTOSi
SHEETS
KING-SIZE
PROTECTI CN !
w
«* m
Hm
King Neptune
ADDITIVE-FORTIFIED
NEPTUNE
MOTOR OIL
Defeats afl main causes of engine wear!
ploughing seems only to culti-
vate the grass.
In late winter or early spring
work the soil deeply. This will
break-up the chain of nuts, and
shoots will appear above ground
like hairs on a cat’s back.
Wait until the grass is growing
well, then spray with 0.2 per
cent, of 2,4-D. If a boom-spray
is used allow about 20gals. to
the acre.
In four weeks the grass will
be dead. New shoots will appear
later on, and these can be sprayed
a second time.
Hormone-weedicides will not
kill the grass completely, but
they will control it and stop it
from spreading.
Jetting
“Big Billy”: According to
B. C. Jefferies, S.A. Animal
Adviser, jetting should be used
to supplement the normal blow-
fly-control measures, not used
in place of them.
Jefferies states that jetting is
useful for the following pur-
poses: To prevent body-strike
during fly waves after hot humid
weather ; in place of second and
third crutchings (a jetting costs
less than a crutching and gives
just as good protection); to
protect rams against head-,
body- and /or crutch-strike ;
when flies are bad at marking-
time, to prevent tail-strike; to
treat fly-struck sheep (usually
by swabbing or spraying rather
than by use of jetting equip-
ment).
Dieldrin, in Jefferies’s view, is
the most efficient and cheapest
of the insecticides at present
available for fly-control by
jetting. It should be used at a
concentration of 0.025 per cent.
when jetting to prevent fly-
strike in the flock, but at 0.05
per cent, when used on rams and
for treating fly-struck sheep.
For jetting -to prevent crutch-
strike, recommended quantity to
use is one-fifth to one-quarter of
a gallon per sheep. Jetting rams
requires from half a gallon to
one gallon of dieldrin.
As jetting at high pressures
can cause skin damage, Jefferies
says that it is best to use lower
pressures. This will ensure both
effective penetration and
economy of fluid. For the
average fleece he advises using
501 b. to 601 b. pressure through
a three-jet nozzle of one-
sixteenth-inch bore, held one to
two inches away from the wool.
For short wool, use the same
pressure and a cyclone jet of
the same bore held in contact
with the wool.
The more wool on the sheep
the more effective is the insecti-
cide, because there is a greater
length of fibre to be saturated
with it.
Jefferies emphasises that
experience in eastern and South
Australia has proved that, to
achieve maximum results, jetting
must be used in conjunction
with the normal long-range fly-
control programme. The survey
had indicated that dieldrin cost
half as much as aldrin, an
eighth as much as B.H.C. and a
tenth as much as D.D.T.
Snail-clover
“Minapre”: During the last
few years snail-clover (M.
scutellata) has gained popularity
in the low-rainfall areas which
need an annual legume while the
land is not growing wheat.
Snail-clover makes its growth
a little earlier in the season
than barrel-clover (M. tribu-
loides), and its growth is more
erect, like lucerne. Its pea-like
seeds are large—about the size
of a small grain of wheat.
While good for the country,
it will not replace barrel-clover,
which has withstood all chal-
lenges for a decade. Snail-
clover is not as dense as barrel,
and its late growth and seed are
somewhat bitter and unattrac-
tive to sheep.
The snail-shaped burrs do not
bury themselves in the ground
as easily as the barrels, and
germination of snail-clover in
the second year is not as good
as that of barrel-clover.
Although the early feed is
valuable, similar growth in
winter is being made by lucerne
and oats sown for grazing.
People who say oats cannot live
with barrel-clover should sow
the cereal early enough to be
able to graze it during the
winter, before barrel-clover
comes into its flush.
Benzol for Tobacco
“Sundowner”: For maximum
return from your tobacco-crop
always keep a supply of benzol
on hand. Clean seedlings are
the basis of a profitable crop,
and a regular nightly applica-
tion of benzol is the only way
to keep them free from blue-
mould.
Be careful with applications—
happy-go-lucky methods are not
good enough. Blue-mould is
controlled by treating the
seedlings with benzol vapor;
important that this should be
the correct concentration. If the
seed-bed covers are in good
order, the concentration will be
provided by evaporation from
benzol pots 4in. by 4in. by lfin.
deep, placed at intervals of 3ft.
up the middle of the bed, the
first pot being only 18in. from
the end wall of the bed.
Makeshift pots will not do
an effective job. If too shallow,
they don’t hold enough benzol.
If too deep, the liquid benzol
will not evaporate rapidly
enough.
Dry-land Trees
“Crymelon”: Like every
other plant, the so-called
“drought-resistant” trees and
shrubs do much better when
they can get water than when
they have to live on what
moisture they can get out of
the air.
Even the athel-tree and the
carob-bean, reputed natives of
the Middle East deserts, have
their natural habitats along the
coast and in oases —not among
the burning sands.
The famous athels of Albert
Morris Park, surrounding
Broken Hill, were reared on
waste water from the local bath-
rooms and kitchens. Too many
failures with these and other
species, such as the kurrajong,
have been due to their owners
interpreting “drought-resistance”
for laziness as far as watering
was concerned.
Besides keeping trees alive,
watering makes them grow more
quickly. Naturally slow-growers
such as the carob can become
useful much faster when
watered.
One of the secrets of good
establishment is to plant only
the number of trees which can
be reared for sure each session.
It is much better to raise 20
trees a year for five years than
to try to rear 100 and lose the
lot as well as any desire to plant
any more.
Other “musts” for good estab-
lishment are a good fallow and
regular hoeing to control insect-
pests as well as weeds.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: A new spray
to kill boxthorn has been
developed by S.A.’s agricultural
experts. The solution, 3 per cent,
low-volatility 2,4-D mixed with
dieseline, is easier to use and
cheaper than established control-
measures. In addition, it is harm-
less to stock and can be used
where the weed grows in a fence-
line where dragging it out with
a tractor may damage the fence.
Best time to apply the spray is
late winter or early spring.
“W. Court”: A concrete floor
that is springing holes can be
easily repaired with cement-
mortar, provided the old surface
is well roughened. This is far
best done with a chipping-
hammer, though some workers
use hydrochloric-acid and water
(l-to-3), put on with a brush,
Wash with clean water when the
bubbling stops. Grout the rough
surface (well moistened) with a
cream of cement and water,
and then spread a l-to-3 mixture
of cement and sand —the mortar.
It won’t take on any but a very
rough bed.
“Sundowner”: A nutritious
gruel for calves can be made
by mixing -Jib. of dried
separated-milk, fib. pollard, a
small teaspoonful of ground-
limestone, and a small teaspoon-
ful of salt, in a gallon of water.
If boiling-water is not used in
the mixing, the lot should be
boiled. Every calf above five
weeks will need this quantity at
each feed morning and night.
Don’t let the gruel cool below
100 degrees F. before feeding, as
this could lead to digestive
trouble.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(14/10/’56)
Queensland should receive reasonably good general
rains during November, although the central coast may be
confined to moderate rain, with patchy rain in the Maranoa
and Warrego.
Moderately good general rains should continue in
N.S.W. during November, and rainfall should be above
normal in the far west and portion of the Riverina, with
heavier falls on the far North Coast. Heavy rains are
likely during December, particularly in the eastern half of
the State, where a renewal of flooding may occur.
Victoria should receive general rains above average
during November, becoming patchy and varying from light
to moderate during December.
General rains may occur in S.A. during November-
December, and these may be heavy in the interior and
Central Australia.
In W.A. during November, good rains should occur
in the Kimberleys, De Grey, East Gascoyne, and portion
of the s.-w. central north, but light and patchy elsewhere.
Good rains may bring relief to the drought areas during
February.
LENNOX WALKER.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers send students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There's a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Savings Campaign
Money is becoming too dear, and the
only chance of making it cheaper is to
save before you buy and thus make it
more plentiful. - “Hist” . suggests that
people should be made to save by means
of compulsory savings-certificates (B.
3/10/’56). Australians have never taken
kindly to compulsory measures, and
except in a crisis like war or a major
depression compulsory saving might be
politically impossible.
The means-test for age- and invalid-
pensions discourages savings. If people
were permitted to pay up to £lOO annually
into a superannuation fund, knowing that
their equity in such would not be calcu-
lated in the means-test for pension-rights,
then savings would increase sharply with
a corresponding fall in spending on non-
essentials. A limit would have to be put
on contributions, otherwise there would
be a sharp fall in tax-revenue.
To avoid expanding Government
bureaucracy the scheme could be handled
by insurance companies or mutual con-
cerns established for the purpose.
People could pay in so many units of
£lO each according to their means. If
half-a-million citizens contributed the
maximum of £lOO a year, £50,000,000
would be saved.
Such superannuation payments would
not drain much away from savings-banks
because people would be unable to draw
money from the pension-fund until they
retired. Under the present set-up the
means-test is causing people to fritter
away their savings in order to qualify for
the age- or invalid-pension.
The amount of development needed in
Australia is out of all proportion to our
small population, and for the next 30
years at least we are going to be short
of capital. By encouraging schoolchildren
in thrift today we would be helping to
provide the much-needed capital for
tomorrow.—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Collector’s Items
Mention of the bibliographical work
of E. A. Petherick (B. 3/10/’56) brings
to mind his earlier work with S. W.
Silver, who gathered a fine library in his
London home, York Gate.
Silver, a prosperous merchant, con-
ducted an extensive business with the
British colonies. Keen interest in the
overseas possessions with which he traded
led him in the early ’fifties of the last
century to collect “literature of geography,
maritime and inland discovery, commerce
and colonisation.” On his death in 1905,
his collection was purchased on behalf of
the Royal Geographical Society of Aus-
tralasia, S.A. branch, in whose rooms on
North-terrace, Adelaide, it is now stored.
The purchase-price was £2000; its value
is now inestimable.
E. A. Petherick compiled two editions
of the “York Gate Catalogue,” the first
issued in 1882 and the second in 1886.
Both are collector’s items, and both appear
—the first rarely, the second occasionally
—in booksellers’ lists. The second
edition mentions “In preparation a con-
tribution to the bibliography of Aus-
tralia, by the compiler of the present
catalogue,” and includes a bibliography
of earlier works.
Items included go back as far as
Ptolemy (1480); more recent publications
are John Gould’s Birds of Australia and
Mammals of Australia, George French
Angas’s work, and similar items, the
prices of which have soared into realms
beyond the purse of the impecunious
bibliomaniac.
There are choice manuscripts, includ-
ing Sir Joseph Banks’s “Journal of a
voyage to Newfoundland and Labrador,”
his “Journal of a visit to Lisbon in 1766,”
“Notes on and brief history of Iceland”
and his “Mining in Brazil.”
Alexander Dalrymple’s “A serious
admonition to the public on the intended
thief Colony at Botany Bay” (in which
the author condemned Australia as a site
for a convict-settlement, and expressed a
preference for Tristan da Cunha for that
purpose), Dr. John Rae’s “Voyages and
Travels in the Arctic Regions,” John
Gould’s “Index to plates in Gould’s Birds
of Australia,” and George Borrow’s
“Zincali, or Gypsies in Spain.”
This collection of over 6000 items listed
in the catalogue, with additions by gift
and purchase, constitutes a library of
which the society is justly proud.—
Collector (S.A.).
Decimal Currency
Arthur Falk has missed two good argu-
ments in favor of decimal currency in
Australia (B. 19/9/’56), and his state-
ment about “the futility of pennies and
halfpennies” cannot go unchallenged.
That is the view of the rich—ask the
poor, or relatively poor, and see how
they regard the “futile” brown.
To pensioners of all kinds, to those
retired on superannuation of a shrunken
value, and to professional, clerical and
skilled workers on fixed incomes, a
ha’penny is a very real sum. These
people have to budget closely, buying in
minimum quantities each week; the odd
ha’pennies in a long list of quarter-pounds
and sixths-of-a-dozen add up to an extra
piece of fruit or half-pint of milk.
That raises the second of Arthur Falk’s
reasons for the reluctance to change over
to decimal coinage: “Fear of the cost
and difficulty of the transition period.”
At least 50 years ago a system was advo-
cated which comprised pounds, florins
and cents. The pound was to be retained
at its current value, the florin to remain
as one-tenth of the pound, and the cent
to be one-hundredth of a florin—since
there are 96 farthings in two-bob, the
"Well—you asked for a light."
cent would have been so near to a
farthing as to make no difference.
That set-up would have many
advantages. First, it would retain existing
values. Second, the existing currency
could go on unchanged except that 10s.-
notes would be replaced by five-florin
notes. Shillings and sixpences could still
be used until replaced by 50-cent and
25-cent coins.
Arthur Falk’s “wish to retain uniformity
with British currency” is of no account.
"Hey!”
Who now remembers when we were at
parity with sterling? To add 25 per cent,
to Australian £ s. d. in order to find
our sterling equivalent is no easier than
doing the same sum in florins and cents. —
’Ermit (N.S.W.).
Steam and Diesel
It remains a great pity that British
Railways have no reason to publicise the
results of the comprehensive motive-
power tests they have carried out over
the past few years, for in no other
quarter is it possible to obtain compari-
sons of such complete accuracy.
The tests have embraced all types of
power—modern steam, diesel-electric,
diesel-mechanical, gas-turbine electric
and straight electrics of both a.c. and
d.c. and with , overhead-wire and third-
rail collection. Part of the result is to
be seen in the modernisation scheme in
which steam-power is to be replaced
gradually by electric at 25,000 volts
a.c., and by diesel in areas of light
traffic.
The position has been very strongly
influenced by the fact that coal has now
become a luxury import, but there is no
rush —they are still building coal-burners
of modern type, and they have on order
174 diesels for further testing, and on
the performance of these will depend
the final orders for a large fleet. This
is the background against which the
recent speech of the chief mechanical
engineer of British Railways to the Diesel
Engine Users’ Association has to be
viewed. Important points of the speech
are these.
Given sufficient traffic to bear the
capital charges—and recent developments
have reduced that requirement consider-
ably—electric traction is Tar superior to
any alternative. Between steam and
diesel the latter had several well-defined
advantages, including a much higher
thermal efficiency and the ability to apply
much higher power at starting and low
speed. Beyond that there was not a
great deal to choose between them, and
the ultimate choice could be governed
by the vital matter of capital charges ;
in this connection current prices for
strictly comparable machines were
quoted as £35,000 and £95,000 each.
It was quite clear from this that a
much smaller number of diesels would
have to dp the work of a given number
of coal-burners, and to this end it would
be essential to convert the potentially
higher availability of the diesel into
reality, which might mean a complete
overhaul of schedules and loads to suit
the different characteristics of diesel-
power.
The almost judicial sobriety of this
approach contrasts strikingly with the
usual exuberance, and the two big points
of difference stand out. The speaker was
comparing comparables and he was not
glossing over the question of capital
charges, of which few laymen appear to
be aware.
Applying this to recent Bulletin
comment, “Four Threes” offered us a
comparison between obsolete machines
and practice and the most modern diesel,
but with capital charges in the ratio of
£lO,OOO to £200,000.
“Y. Tope” (B. 26/9/’56) covers more
ground, but the locos with which he is
comparing about £200,000-worth of
diesel are basically the 1896 T524-class,
worth certainly no more than £BOOO in
modernised form, or, on passenger-work,
the 1925 C 36 at £14,000. Both writers,
incidentally, make too much of the
matter of changing locos intermediately,
a useful practice with poor coal but not
strictly necessary. After all, the Flying
Scot doesn’t receive much mechanical
attention on its 400-mile non-stop run.
It’s a difficult matter on which to be
dogmatic, but, considering all the factors,
it remains to be proved that modern
coal-burners would not offer most Aus-
tralian taxpayers a better return for their
money.—Transporticus (Singapore).
Canal Pilots
The present Egyptian pilots who have
successfully taken convoys through the
Suez Canal are not performing miracles.
Canal-pilots are highly-skilled men,
but most ships using the canal are regular
traders, and their masters , have been
through the canal many, many times. They
know the’ canal better than they know
their own backyards, and I doubt .if any
would relax vigilance for a moment these
days—they still command their vessels
in the canal.
A ship reaching Suez or Port Said is
issued with a copy of the canal regula-
tions, one of the first of which reminds
rfiasters that pilots, though compulsorily
employed, are on board solely in an
advisory capacity, and that should
circumstances of danger arise masters
must not hesitate to take seamanlike
action to avoid mishap, as, for example,
deliberately running their ships aground
rather than collide —in other words,
slightly damage one’s own ship rather
than seriously damage two ships.
Should an accident happen the pilotage
authority has its way of punishing the
pilot, but where a case goes to court to
decide liability it is the skipper who is
“in the gun.”
Many British and other skippers could
quite competently train the Russians as
canal-pilots. Such an event, though it
won’t happen in the canal, would not be
without precedent.
When Caripito (Venezuela) became an
oil-port there were no pilots for the long
river-trip through the jungle. The
authorities required a tanker-skipper to
train pilots in what he had learned “by
guess and by God,” so that the . men he
taught could take his and other ships to
the oil-wharf.— Tackline S. (N.S.W.).
Butter and Margarine
“Magnoon” is right when he says there
will be room for both butter and
margarine (B. 12/9/’56). You can’t
suppress the sales of margarine—it’s a
wholesome food, vitamin-enriched, and
the price is to the liking of the average
wage-earner. Many families can’t afford
both butter and milk,' and they prefer to
give the children milk and save on
margarine.
Once, butter-milk and skim-milk were
regarded as animal-food, but their food-
value makes them very expensive in that
category, and anyone who uses them as
such and costs them at 2d. to 4d. a
gallon is pulling his own leg.
A nutritious and stable skim-milk
powder is now on the market, and is in
great demand in inland areas where fresh
milk is unprocurable. The arguments
against its use are not very sound. In a
country where fats in the diet are plentiful,
a loss of 3.9 per cent, of fat in one item
on our table won’t kill us. Also, the
market in the East is an attractive one.
Would it be a bad thing if farmers did
stop feeding skim-milk to pigs and calves?
Investigations are a long way past the
experimental stage in this, and many
highly successful piggeries never see
skim-milk or butter-milk. Once again,


there are plenty of protein substitutes for
skim-milk and most can’t be used for
human food.
Margarine has an advantage over
butter in that it’s uniform in composition
and flavor. On the other hand, butter
can vary greatly between factories.
One of the, features of the dairy-
industry today is the revolution in market-
ing milk. Refrigeration has made it
possible to carry milk over long distances,
and sales have expanded because centres
previously considered “powdered-milk”
towns now use fresh milk. The north-
western towns of Queensland, such as
Mt. Isa, receive regular supplies of fresh
milk from the Atherton Tableland, over
600 miles away.
These sales must expand as the popula-
tion increases and people find a prefer-
ence for pasteurised liquid-milk. But
this expansion has been to the dis-
advantage of butter and cheese. Only
milk of the highest quality is wanted, and
many suppliers of excellent cream have
turned to milk. The poor-quality-cream
supplier is not wanted: if he can’t make
the grade on cream he would be hopeless
on milk. The overall result has been
poorer grades of cream and, consequently,
of butter.
One can visualise the day when all milk
is sent to the factory to be used as
demands indicate—liquid-milk for towns
and cities and the remainder separated
and churned' into butter or made into
cheese. The skim-milk would be dried.
As “Magnoon” says, this day is still far
off, but it must come; several large'
factories are getting ready now.
There are other aspects of the industry
which could be considered now. States
regulate the minimum standards for milk-
composition. For example, in Queens-
land the minimum standard for fat is 3.3
per cent. Bottled-milk sold throughout
the State shows .a yearly variation of
from 3.5 per cent, to 4.3 per cent. If
milk is to be used as a balanced food
there must be a point where the fat is
balanced with the other constituents.
Why not standardise all milk to a fat-
percentage compatible with a balanced
food? Dieticians would soon suggest a
suitable standard, and the excess fat,
churned into butter, would help reduce
costs and increase returns.
Health Departments in Australia still
shy clear of this issue, but it’s sound both
economically and from the health point
of view: in Europe it’s standard practice.
We’re missing a lot of trade by not
catering for the New Australians’ taste
in cheese, but we’re losing a lot more
by faulty manufacture. Cheesemaking
is a science—a combination of time and
lactic-acid development—and it can’t be
rushed. The 40-hour week has turned
cheesemaking into a rush job ; an old
cheesemaker’s hair would stand on end
if he saw the way some cheese is made
today.
Some manufacturers claim it does not
pay to mature cheese unless they get a
substantial incentive for doing it. This
is to recoup the loss due to shrinkage and
the time held in storage. Some States
are reluctant to grant the required
increase, and so really matured cheese is
seldom seen on the market.
The solution to this is to concentrate
cheese-manufacture in larger, . well-
equipped factories, where mechanised aids
can overcome the labor-problem.
One thing is obvious. The processing
side of the dairy-industry has joined the
ranks of the big industries. Although
there will always be small as well as
large dairyfarms, the day of the small
factory is over. The trend will be toward
large factories, capable of handling all
types of dairy-produce and fitted with
the most modern equipment and labor-
saving devices. It’s the only way to make
the game efficient and hold world markets
when prices are beginning to sway
uncertainly.— Agricola (Q.).
Despite “S.C.M.” (B. 29/8/’56), differ-
ent grades of cream are mixed, particu-
larly in the smaller factories, in times of
lean production. The resulting butter is
known in the trade as “print” butter.
The grading of cream by taste and
smell is a farce. Give any man a taste
of really bad cream and his taste will
be destroyed for the day, often longer.
And I have known farmers, always
second-graded, who immediately got
“choicest” by sending to another factory.
As for the return from milk being
twice that of butter, I am going on actual
returns for our own farm, which sells
bulk to the local distributor. Milk —3s.
.per gallon at 4 per cent, test —gives 0.41 b.
of butterfat: at 4s. per lb. this gives
Is. 7d. for the same gallon of milk. Not
quite the 100 per cent., but the fuel to
drive the separator will make the differ-
ence. The value of skim-milk to pigs
“Willie, don't blow the horn—you'll run the battery down!"
or poultry does add to the farmer’s
income, but its value per gallon is very
little.—J. J. A. (Vic.).
Betting and Stealing
The day my par. on “Crime and
Punishment” appeared (B. 3/10/’56) my
newspaper reported, as separate items,
the following decisions by the same
stipendiary magistrate:
For street-betting, a fine of £lOO, in
default three months’ jail.
For attempted car-thefts (pardon,
“illegal use”—two youths having pleaded
guilty to four charges and having
admitted trying to break into three cars
and opening a fourth, which they were
unable to start), a £2O, six-months’ good-
behavior bond and the friendly advice to
“take up some hobby.”
One-hundred-pounds’ fine for accept-
ing what bettors were willing to part with
—the real offence being not bookmak-
ing but depriving the Government of
revenue from gambling—and a bond,
with a trifling penalty for its breach, for
attempting to take away a person’s
valuable property and possibly wreck it!
It’s no wonder that, while street-
betting is waning in popularity in
Victoria, car-stealing is as rampant as
ever. — Doynest (Vic.).
Cooktown
“Sandpatch” (B. 19/9/’56) is right
when he says that Cooktown could use
a sugar-mill and a direct road to Cairns,
but I doubt if these alone would ensure
settlement of the area.
The potentialities are immense—sugar,
peanuts, pineapples, bananas and all
tropical fruits can be grown in a climate
more equable than Cairns, and the old
port could handle a hinterland rich in
minerals and beef-cattle. But pioneers
of the 1956-class are not forthcoming,
and one can hardly blame them.
I visited a peanut-farm on which 10
acres of pineapples had been allowed to
go to the weeds. A rich river flowed on
two sides of the farm, but capital was
lacking for irrigation. The young chap
who was starting the block frankly said
he was quitting as soon as he had bagged
the crop he had planted. One could
hardly blame him. He lived in a humpy
20 miles from anywhere. Supplies were
brought out once a week and his living-
conditions were very rough.
The wiseacres may say that he hasn’t
the guts to carry on and point to the
example of the fine old pioneers. True,
the old pioneers did a marvellous job—
but Cooktown cemetery has a preponder-
ance of pioneers’ graves recording deaths
at well under the 50-mark.
The old pioneers never knew radio,
talkies, refrigeration, easy access to
medical care, or life in a Welfare State
with a high standard of living.
The types we want on the land have
known all these if they have stayed in
civilisation long enough to get through
primary-school to scholarship-standard,
and the life of the rugged pioneer palls
in a very short time.
The full settlement of the Cooktown
district would mean a long-range Govern-
ment project—preferably under Com-
monwealth sponsorship—with at least an
assured living for the “20th-century
pioneers,” and a few amenities within
reasonable access. This would mean
good roads, regular shipping-services and
guaranteed outlets for produce—all
requiring long-range planning, and
impossible to the man with only limited
capital.
Amenities in Cooktown are strictly
limited. Out-of-date pictures three times
a week and a regular supply of beer
appear to be the only means of recrea-
tion. The electoral-roll is predominantly
Labor, as the majority of the male popu-
lation are employed at the local sawmill
by the local council or by the Main Roads
Department. All these represent “wages
men,” and, as wages in Cairns and Cook-
town are the same, most men seek
employment in the Trinity Bay area
rather than around the Endeavour River.
Full-scale development of an area with
such a marvellous potential appears to be
a national necessity, but until it is viewed
as such Cooktown will continue to sleep
in slumbrous soliloquy, looking for what-
ever fame it needs to its Cook monument,
its Cook tree and its bank where once
Louis Becke drove a quill over the ledgers
—Johnno (Q.).
Collector Ethics
In the Red Page review (B. 3/10/’56;
of Dr. George Mackaness’s The Art of
Book Collecting in Australia severa
tales of bargains are quoted: that first
edition of Norman Lindsay’s The Magic
Pudding, picked up at an “old-fashionec
little newsagency at Ryde” for half-a-
crown; and again that “innocent old
gentleman of 75” who sold two copies of
Carboni Raffaello’s The Eureka Stock-
ade for 7s. 6d. apiece.
No doubt the seller in each case, know-
ing no better, was happy about the deal,
but still a question of ethics is raised —
is a collector (of books or anything else)
entitled, by virtue of his special know-
ledge, to profit at the expense of the
“innocent”?
It must, of course, be a matter of
conscience, because the circumstances
always vary, and no rule can be laid
down. In the case of a seller who
undoubtedly ought to have known the
value of his goods, or whose purse is so
well-lined that only his self-esteem suffers
from getting the thin end of a bargain—
then good-luck to the alert collector.
But where a deal with some simple
soul is concerned there is surely some
moral obligation on the collector at least
to share the value of his find. — Hist
(N.S.W.).
Wireless-licences
I should think “Ceg” is fight in his
view that the Commonwealth Parliament
has no Constitutional power to conduct
broadcasting-services or to collect licence-
fees (B. 26/9/’56).
A broadcasting-service could not
possibly have been contemplated when
the Commonwealth Constitution was
framed; and, anyway, it is manifestly
unjust that the many thousands of citizens
who never tune to a national station
should be obliged to contribute towards
the cost of maintaining a service which
they do not use. There are probably
valid reasons why Government broad-
casting should be continued, but that
does not justify the present inequitable
method of raising the money for it.
Still, I won’t be challenging the Com-
monwealth’s Constitutional powers on
this subject. Whenever the Common-
wealth’s authority has been questioned, it
has fought the individual concerned tooth-
and-nail, through court after court to
the Privy Council, if necessary. The
Commonwealth can afford to do so, but
my finances would be exhausted by legal
expenses in the first trial of arms. And I
can hardly see many fellow-citizens
dubbing-in to pay Privy Council costs.
The truth is that, while we all have
the legal right to challenge alleged
infringements of the Constitution, only
those in the millionaire-class can afford
to exercise that right.— Ardoyne (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 405
Across
I—Support nothing beneath a
theorist for one who uses the
pestle for an ex-sovereign
sovereign. (10)
s—The last Parliament was opened
by this diet. (4)
9 Require the sewer? (6)
10— Ran back, pulled an oar, and
grew less wide. (8)
13— Clerical worker in this might say
he’s invested a pound. (3)
14— Four-legged prison money of
India shortened a backing boy.
(11)
10—Don’t end the solitude of meadow
meat on one. (5, 5)
17—Gray’s lowing herd does this
European. (4)
20— This is a minor branch! Under-
stand? (4)
21— Heavenly lady could be over-
burdened. (5-5)
-s—They know the gear used by the
perfumeless ego. (11)
_6—Vowels matched eggs. (3)
-7—The late male at the tie feature
of most plants in the winter and
summer condition. (4-4)
30—Smoke got the stick. (6)
—Football legislator is Behind. (4)
32 —Figure comes before ,you after
one who propounds and specifies
procedures. (10)
Down
1— Write the label on plenty who
can speak five languages? (9)
2 It might be said of Mother-of-
Ten —or even of Father-of-Ten.
(11)
3 It isn't so direct to give Eb
liquor. (8)
4 How a Spaniard might speak of
a Sir Bradman. (3)
6 Base cartoonist. (3)
7 Something resembling coin
coppers in the repast. (5)
8— Fruit core of 14-across. (5)
11— Nora and a rising successor of
Moses. (5)
12— Scot with a leg broken. (4)
15—Afraid to love the navai unit.
(11)
18— Who throws the Bradman race.
(9)
19 — Exhausted the lot, generally
speaking. (3, 2,3)
22 A clue is sufficient for you to
identify this place at the head of
the Bight. (5)
23 Creeper direction after six. (4)
24 An Australian comic tea and
coffee. (5)
2 C —Raced into the wood. (5)
28— Objective article on a statement
as to my existence. (3)
29 It’s often in the road. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 404


r
A
V
A,
1
-
zb-"*
The emphasis these days for the man on the land is CONSERVATION of soil,
fodder and stock. Scientific study of agricultural problems has revealed ways of
improving the quality and quantity of output and of CONSERVING THE FER-
TILITY OF THE LAND. More and more research is being undertaken to help
the man on the land conserve and consolidate. There is, however, a more pressing
problem—THAT OF CONSERVING HIS ESTATE; making sure that upon his
death his property may pass on to his Beneficiaries unencumbered by death duties.
Land values today are higher than they have ever been, yet paradoxically the
growth in value has increased the liability, for there is one debt that cannot be
escaped—DEATH DUTIES.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited, “The M.L.C.,"
has for many years specialised in the field of ESTATE CONSERVATION,
and has developed an attractive range of policies especially suitable for the
purpose. In some cases the amount required to pay Death Duties is consider-
able, and the M.L.C. offers a specially reduced premium rate for higher-than-
average requirements—this premium rate is one of the lowest available in
Australia today.
Particulars will be readily supplied without obligation upon request. Learn more
about THE M.L.C. ESTATE CONSERVATION PLAN as it concerns you
personally. Contact your nearest M.L.C. man for further details or drop a note
to the M.L.C. at Sydney (G.P.O. Box 1598) or the nearest M.L.C. District
Office.
He will be
carrying' 0n...
for New South Wales , Gi
ML7S/FP
■t
OTW 3HI A 8 dSSIAdV USM 33
The
• JU« \J9
(incorporated in M.S. IV.)
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS'
Assurance Co. Limited
