

sepP e^
m.
SWEET OR DRY
\w
The Bulletin
“VERSE OF THE AUSTRALIAN FRONTIER ” —PAGE 27
«The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3995
Wednesday, September 5, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
WINDSOR’S HORSESHOE CLOISTER
HOME OF A FAMOUS CHOIR
CASTLE, situated beside
'' the Thames twenty miles from
London, has been the home of English
Monarchs for over eight hundred years.
It is the largest inhabited castle in the
world and owes its existence to William
the Conqueror (1066-1087), who turned
Windsor from a Saxon hunting lodge
into a Norman military 'post, and later
into a royal residence.
King John rode from Windsor Castle
to meet his nobles at Runnymede, where
he sealed Magna Charta ; Shakespeare
hurried to Windsor at the command of
Queen Elizabeth I to present his play
“The Merry Wives of Windsor”; there
the tragic Anne Boleyn, all unconscious
of what the future held in store, paced
the cloister with her venerable uncle, the
dean; Queen Victoria returned to
Windsor after her honeymoon and
entered in her diary “I and Albert alone,
at last” Within St. George’s Chapel lie
the coffins of a host of Kings, including
Henry VII and Charles I, whose body
was brought to Windsor after his
execution in London.
Opposite the great west entrance to
St. George’s Chapel is a group of
beautiful half-timbered buildings, illus-
trated here, known as the Horseshoe
Cloisters. They were built in 1478-81
by King Edward IV for the priest-vicars
serving St. George’s Chapel. Today the
houses are inhabited by the lay clerks,
or gentlemen of the choir, whose choral
singing is world renowned. The Cloisters
were restored in 1871 by Sir Gilbert
Scott, but the original timber and brick-
work still suivive.
Near the Cloisters is the Curfew
Tower, which, from earliest times,
defended the north-west corner of the
fortress. Day and night since 1477 the
chimes of its eight bells have echoed
from the Curfew Tower across the Royal
Borough of Windsor.
No. 314: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


STORY WRITING!
HARM AT HOME
. . . and EARN in your SPARE TIME
There is a big demand for well-written
work. Read these extracts from the letters
of STOTT-Students:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount o£ £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount 1
shall receive for this article alone will
almost pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
mmm
wit
o ]\m
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
-—'—"'CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
S.B. 1756 AGE
ISOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you —fiction, text boos,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only ix iO®*
cessful.
The Red Page
OLD PARRAMATTA
The graces of style are suspect in this
age of utility, and Ethel Anderson’s
guilt is so patent in her collection, At
Parramatta (Cheshire), of stories “The
Bulletin” was fortunate enough to
print first, that it is worth while to point
out that all that glisters is not tinsel.
Take the second sentence in the book,
about Dr. Phantom’s “Hyde Park”: —
This was a canopied and curtained
vehicle, its four wheels rimmed with
iron, and it was drawn by a piebald
Waler, and driven by a white-gloved,
personable murderer.
This solidity is to be found every-
where. It is not enough for Mrs.
Anderson to say that they made a boy
a catapult: it was “contrived from the
fork of a cherry-tree, a piece of elastic
and the thumb of an old glove.” Mr.
Peachy’s shanty was no mere split-log
hut:—
He had made it of split logs, the
bark still on them, with a bark roof,
held down by saplings laced together
with wire. Even its chimney was as
wide as a room, and made of bark,
mantelled round with settles, and
kept damp, for safety’s sake.
And the Reverend. Phineas McCree
was not merely, as a lesser author might
have slummed it off, “lost in theological
reveries”; he had, “in preparation for
next Sunday’s sermon, been re-reading
Bishop Burnet’s account of the First
Flood”—and there is a page of lively,
if not always reverent, contemplation
of the Bishop’s opinions.
A utilitarian assay of facts-to-the-
square-inch would put this writing as
high as anything that is being done
today; but for Mrs. Anderson style has
more to do than present facts about
Australia a hundred years ago. One
of the tests of writing that is more
than plaip chronicle is whether it is
merely imitative of someone else’s “fine
writing,” or whether it is made that way
by original thought and feeling. To
the extent that this book is imitative
its point of departure is the exquisite
decadence of the novels of the wayward
Ronald Firbank. Mrs. Anderson likes
a trellis to encourage her roses: in an
Indian series published in “The
Bulletin” it was a system of allegorical
castles from Indian mythology; in this
Parramatta series it is The Seven
Deadly Sins.
It is in her treatment of the Sins that
she shows the waywardness. of her
wicked master. Under this evil
influence the sin of Sloth becomes the
refusal of the servants at the Parra-
matta parsonage to work 26 hours a
day. Anger is the sin of little Donal-
blain McCree against the farmhand
who killed his ducklings. Envy is the
sin of a dead captain who returns as
a ghost to wish he was his widow’s new
husband. Pride is the sin of the young
widow, Peronel McCree, who borrowed
the sacred bolt of brocade intended
for the cape of her father-in-law, the
Rev. Phineas McCree, and made a
dress of it to dazzle the Governor’s
aide at a ball in Parramatta. Lust is
the sin of Miss Aminta Wirraway in
staying at the pub her chosen love
frequented. Gluttony is the sin of
Juliet McCree, aged 11, who stole
the Red Roman nectarine that was the
apple of Dr. Boisragon’s eye, and
refused to admit it—a thief and a
liar ...
Exactly what the sin was of Mrs.
McCree, who tried to get the Bishop
drunk on a Nyppe, or punch, of
fabulous recipe, is not immediately
apparent. When these stories began
to come in to ‘‘The Bulletin” it was
thought that some suggestion of their
moral origin should be made in the
headings, but so curiously has Mrs.
Anderson worked-out her themes, and
so reluctant was the present reviewer,
after wrongly attributing one sin, to
confess his ignorance of sin in general,
that the scheme was abandoned. Still,
as six of the sins have been mentioned,
and as Mrs. McCree’s attempt upon
the Bishop’s sobriety was with the
purpose of having her husband
elevated to a Canonry, one may con-
sider that her sin was Covetousness.
The difficulty of attributing the sins
is increased by the author’s inability,
once having set her foot upon the
downward path, to stop. Having
exhausted the Deadly Sins, she draws
upon the Decalogue for a Murder
(which, characteristically enough, is
not done and ends in the betrothal of
the gluttonous and beautiful Juliet
McCree to a curate) and for the
innumerable Adulteries which occasion
the Duke’s visit to Australia to distri-
bute alms among his father’s former
paramours and his own . less-
acknowledged step-brothers and step-
sisters.
Still full of enthusiasm, Mrs.
Anderson begins to invent: “A Sin
Not Mentioned in the Decalogue,”
which seems to be the stealing of an
eligible widower from one’s sister, and
a Nameless Sin —and one of her best
stories—“ The Love-nest; or Which
Sin Is That?” which concerns the sin
of Miss Loveday Boisragon in offend-
ing Sir Jason Popham’s sense of the
social niceties by reading the family
washing-list, and Victoria McMurthie’s
similar lapse in speaking of “my
father” instead of “my papa,” which
proved to Sir Jason that she was “a
person of no family.”
If some of this casuistry derives from
the Firbank habit-of-mind it is clear
that Mrs. Anderson is wholly respons-
ible for the ingenious details. Hers
also must be complete responsibility
for a further twist in the method, by
which a manner developed to follow
the amoralities of a decaying con-
temporary society is turned to mirror
the sturdy virtues of Australian pro-
fessional society of a century ago: her
gentle sophistries assert the virtues they
deride.
In this complex and subtle way, Mrs.
Anderson presents in unique form a
picture of Australian life in the middle
of last century, a society of English
traditions and English manners, sub-
sisting on agriculture and trade,
untouched by gold-rushes, untorn by
unionism, unhurried by trains or motor-
cars, untroubled by national conscious-
ness, more concerned to transplant
English trees than to study Australian
flora; set in its ways. Much of it seems
to have come out of old letters and
family papers; a great deal must
derive from stories handed down: it
is surprising to look back on the com-
paratively small book and to realise
how much ground has been covered
with such lightness and such grace.
But all this might seem of little
importance to the casual reader if facts
and methods and moralities and
memories had not caught fire in the
set of brilliant scenes by which the
book progresses. Mrs. Anderson’s
strength as a storyteller is in the
presentation of witty situations. Take
the scene upon which Dr. Phantom
impinged in his Hyde Park:—
But the sight that baffled his
intelligence as his Hyde Park
clattered to a standstill by the kerb
outside his partner’s brass-plated,
two-storied yellowstone house beside
the bridge at Parramatta, was the
apparition of seven little boys and
girls, of ages ranging from four to
perhaps ten or eleven years, each
holding in their trembling hands a
black papier-mache basin; each
standing on a separate step of the
stairway that led down to the slowly-
meandering waters of the Lane Cove
River.
The high farce is in this picture, and
it has only to be developed: one of
the children has stolen a noble
nectarine, and the Doctor has given
them each an emetic. While they are
in process of disproving the theft Dr.
Boisragon gorges himself upon choice
fruit from baskets brought by his
partner, singing the aesthetic and
gustatory praises of grapes, plums and
apples until, Juliet McCree having dis-
gorged her sin into her black bowl,
the Doctor is able to excommunicate
her in the stately and measured tones
of the period from his family circle.
Or take the progress of the vicarage
buckboard, “an unwired aviary of
chirping girls,” to Lanterloo Bay on
the Harbor. Here, with a number of
delicate touches, the reader is con*
stantly reminded that the elegant dis-
cussion of the proclivities of the
eligible Dr. Phantom, wool-work, the
third brother who married a line oj
South Sea whalers, the curious habits
of saints, and Phaedra, who was too
weak with love to bear the weight of
her bracelets, is being carried on by
mid-Victorian young ladies bathing
and sunning themselves on the sand
without the protection of so much as
a Bikini.
Or take the scene where Victoria
McMurthie, daughter of a shipowner,
and a navigator in her own right,
swims her horse out to the sloop
anchored dangerously inshore and goes
aboard to act as pilot to an admiral
and a naval captain—the whole thing
becomes a conversation-piece of three
brilliant portraits: the surly prig of an
admiral, the suave, amused captain and
the exquisite clear voice of the young
girl—a genre-study in manners that
makes you think of the first act of
“Pygmalion.”
So that if one is to judge prose by
the degree to which it can present a
complexity of thought and feeling in
a small space, Mrs. Anderson’s writ-
ing must be rated very highly and as
almost unique in Australian story-
telling. If her sentences are some-
times involved it is because they have
a great deal to say; if sometimes there
is a tendency to sentimentalise it is
because she is almost always inexor-
ably feminine. If Australia’s women
writers have an unforgivable fault it
is that they try to write like men; and.
indeed, the one story which Mrs.
Anderson doesn’t quite carry off is her
account of the battle of fruits and the
fire at Parramatta Show.
R. McC.
THREE POEMS...
THE FARMER
By DAVID CAMPBELL
The storms have greened the winter hills
Cropped close as parsimony, and ewes
Feed through the apple-gums towards
Their camp beneath the windy crows;
And there the lambs play round the
shells
Of trees and leap in lemon light,
But the ewes never raise their heads:
There is one hour before the night —
One hour for dance and magpie song,
One hour to listen to the crow’s;
And here / danced when l was young,
And here l go around my ewes.
THE BIRDS RETURN
The birds return
And foxes lose their cunning
For love forgets to see the huntsman
pass;
A tall sun burns
And form and truth have meaning:
Goodbye to books, goodbye the looking
glass.
Now lover turns
To lover without shame
And breathless children hang on what
they say.
The birds return —
They were here all the time;
And flowers bloom —they have not been
away.
THE PERISHERS
I
Under the storms on Perisher
Where changing shadows ride the snow,
The bar-room of the burnt hotel
Supports a solitary cow —
A cow that dreams beneath a pine
And chews a cud of apple-peel;
And the snow rustles from the boughs.
The afternoons are white and still
And men come down on Saturdays
From migrant camps at Island Bend
To drink and fight, and seeing her
Cry out, “So, so ! We haff a friend !
“We hap a cow, a female cow!”
Scratching her frosted ear, they think
Of other fields and other forms,
And take their glasses up and drink.
II
Johnny goes in for photographs
Signed by himself “Janette and J”
That he sends home; and hands about
“Me and the Duchess at Bondi” ;
So having wheeled the garbage out,
He writes as from some ski resort
Across the portrait of a cow
“A Friend I Met at Winter Sport.”
Frieda Lawrence
The news of the death of Mrs. Frieda
Lawrence Ravagli at Taos, New
Mexico, makes even more vivid the
memory of someone who was very
much alive when I visited her eleven
months ago. She had written to my
wife and myself, telling us to be sure
to come to Taos on our way back to
Australia across the U.S.A. In Sep-
tember she would be there, not yet
departed for her winter quarters in
Port Isabel, Texas.
At 7000 ft., Taos and its neighboring
Indian villages lie in clear light and
cool air, with the Sangre de Cristo
mountains rising high behind. There
is one of those self-conscious “art
colonies” at Taos which Americans
adore and we care for less; it is remark-
able how often that independent
character D. H. Lawrence gravitated
to such places.
They told us in the town that Frieda,
as she was known, much like a resident
goddess, was with her husband,
Angelino Ravagli, at the lower ranch;
at the end of September, it was too
cold at her other house, the upper
ranch on the Lobo, 17 miles away in
the mountains. (In the south-west of
the U.S.A. any house in the country
with a few square yards of land is
known as a ranch.)
We stopped at a simple, low white
house, and a man came out of the
studio in the garden and said, “I was
expecting some Australians from Santa
Fe. Have you seen them?” Having
straightened that one out, he intro-
duced himself as Angelino, and went
to get Frieda.
In body, voice and gesture she com-
manded extraordinary strength and
delicacy. Her eyes were bright, she
stood solidly on slender ankles and
tiny feet; she had a German accent
still, and nodded her head vigorously
to emphasise what she said, with a
deep, thoroughly-meant laugh. She
pointed up to the mountains, where
the upper ranch was, and said it would
be lovely soon in the fall, when the
aspens burned “like a tiger’s skin.”
The house was comfortable and
roomy; on the walls some of Lawrence’s
paintings, including one or two that
had been seized by the police at his
show in London. They looked harm-
less enough. “We loved Aust-rr-alia,”
(i Continued, on page J 5)


mm
■is
V
CARRY
when Anthony Horderns’
DELIVER DAILY TO
325 SUBURBS
Which would you choose to struggle
home with heavy parcels on crowded
transport or sit back and let A.H’s do
all the work FREE! To us, daily
delivery is just another of our many
famous services . .to you it’s a wonderful
saving of time and effort; an assurance
that your purchase will be delivered in
the shortest time possible. If you’re
unable to come into town yourself just
’phone your order through (B 0951). .
We’lI 9 phone your home each weeh and
tahe your order (if you wish)
u>
P W
Just ring us here at A.H’s leave your
’phone number and your groceries will
be delivered right to your door each week!
For in our Grocery Department we’ve no
less than eight telephonists whose sole job
is to see that your provision cupboard is
hlways well stocked, We’ve all the
famous brands, too, in groceries that range
from cheeses to chickens, peanuts to pork.
PARCELS HOME?
All famous wines and spirits are here!
UL
W 9
6
&
VQDKX
m
We’ve a fine selection of Hunter River
and South Australian table wines; Aus-
tralian or overseas liqueurs and spirits
and ample supplies of bottled beer, too!
Our connoisseurs will be happy to advise
you in your choice, so call in to our Wines
and Spirits Department, Ground Floor,
Goulburn St. from 8.30 each morning.
PHONE B 0951 AND ASK FOR T.O.P.S.
/A
**£ <
iM
mi
m
msm
isiSSKi
im
•V ; :v:: .
mmsm
m
m
mm
m «
1
£§&
mmrnm
ililiill
, y '. '
4 "TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns’
1
80951
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vol 77—No. 3995
Wednesday, September 5, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. k. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G .P. 0.), Wellington.
BUDGET REALITIES
THERE were no surprises in the Budget which Sir
Arthur Fadden presented to Parliament last Thurs-
day—not even in the mock-indignant “noises off”
from the region where Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell
were sitting. It was easily possible to forecast the
interjections of those two worthies even before the
Budget was framed.
The Budget was what might have been expected
in an economy which is still booming, but which
is threatened by shrinking overseas markets and
rising internal costs, and which, let it never be
forgotten, is a very “political” economy.
On the whole, the community will probably
feel grateful for the small mercies shown it. With
every State Government and all trade-unions
exerting inflationary influence, with a spending-
boom in consumer-goods damped-down by force,
with an uncertain world situation and the danger
of . war an ever-present undercurrent of our daily
lives, it is something to be thankful for that taxation
does not rise, and that defence expenditure, which
has so large an ingredient of wages and wage-rises,
doesn’t substantially increase.
The only upward adjustments, irksome as they
may be, are postal *and telephone-installation
charges and radio-licences, against which can be
laid increased income-tax exemptions for educa-
tional expenses and insurance and some added
allowances and age-concessions to widows and
invalids with children.
There has, of course, been a resounding yell
from “Labor” at the failure of the Government to
increase pensions all round. Opposition members
will make all the capital out of this that they can,
perhaps to salve their own consciences because
of the increases which Parliamentarians are
accepting in their own salaries. But what actually is
needed is a thorough and searching examination of
the pension system. The idea that any man of 65
or woman of 60 becomes automatically incapable
of f further work has surely become as dead as a
do‘do in the recent age of improving health and
increasing life-span.
The entire pension position at present is d
burden on thrift and a discouragement to self-
reliance. It is a burden solely because those who
most ardently advocate pensions are not ready
to do the necessary extra work to pay for them.
But no politician is prepared to face the position
any more than he is prepared to face the fact that
the real danger to the country’s economy lies in
the fact that work has become too dear in relation
to the value of what it produces; or that the week is
too short and the working-pace too slow and the
view that leisure and pleasure are the main
objectives in life too marked.
As in the proceedings at the Premiers’ confer-
ence, the tendency to forget these facts, which have
so great a vote-buying and vote-losing implica-
tion, is marked in the Budget. Until they are taken
into account by somebody all Budgets will, and
must, consist of exhibitions of trick-driving by
which the Treasurer keeps the economy racing
clear of the edge of the cliff, while failing to crash
into the telegraph-poles on the other side of the
narrow and potholed highway.
The Federal Government is doing a fair job of
handling the situation within its Constitutional
limitations —at least for the moment. Superficially,
its troubles stem from too great a local demand for
capital, too great a demand for imports, too little
money from exports to meet overseas requirements
for the purchase of the necessities of expansion. So
immigration must be cut down, imports must be
artificially restricted, investment must be controlled,
and the slump in farm-income, due to falls in over-
seas prices, floods and labor conditions, must be
compensated for in the general balance.
It is a paradox that there should be fears and
moaning in a country whose national inpome
(money figures, not real volume) rose 6.5 per
cent, during the year, whose wages and salaries
rose 9 per cent., company income 5 per cent,
and other forms of earning 7 per cent. It is
equally a paradox that in a country in which the
level of all incomes and salaries ballooned by
£209.000,000. personal - consumption expenditure
rose by £243,000,000 over the previous year and
gfoss expenditure on capital equipment and public-
authority outlay by nearly £160,000,000, a Budget
which proposes the expenditure of £50,000,000
more than last year should be dubbed “heartless”
and “cruel and callous” —Dr.' Evatt’s viewpoint.
It is even more paradoxical that these infla-
tions of income and spending should have taken
place in a year in which farm-income, on which
the Commonwealth depends for the staple of its
living, fell by £26,000,000 and in which floods were
causing widespread damage and local loss.
The Government is fully aware of the danger
of control of national solvency by artificial restric-
tions and particularly the restriction of imports.
Sir Arthur Fadden said plainly that the continuance
of these restrictions at the present degree of severity
for long must be damaging to the Australian
economy. So in the circumstances must some
other trends,, notably that under which automatic
adjustments of the basic wage are adding
£30,000,000 a year to the wage-bill apart from
“multiplied indirect effects.” The cost of every
shilling wage-rise directly means an added burden
of £3,000,000 on the cost of Australian production.
Sir Arthur Fadden put the position in a nutshell
when he said that what was needed to meet the
situation was an export income nearer £1,000,000,000
than £800,000,000, with a steady flow of capital
both on public and private account. But he skated
over the issue of how it is to be obtained.
He feels that “we need not despair” of a solu-
tion, and he “does not join with those who say that,
unless we reduce our rate of economic growth, we
must resign ourselves to'chronic shortages of foreign
exchange and perpetual import-restrictions.”
At the same time he is not optimist enough
to believe that the Australian community, ostens-
ibly wholly literate and reasonably educated, can be
persuaded that it would pay to work another four
hours a week all round and fast enough to obviate
a huge load of overtime costs, in order to buy the
ability to compete more widely in world export-
markets. He is not game to put a brake on the
State Governments.
The remedy for any difficulties Australia has
are relatively simple —work a little more, earn a
little more, exercise a little restraint in wage-grab
and luxury spending.
* Other countries are applying the remedy and
securing the markets round the Pacific which should
be ours.
Migrant Men and Money
WITH financial problems occupying the public
mind more and more pressingly and with employ-
ment, while still “full,” showing signs of being less
distended than at any time in the past four years,
there has in recent months been a growing agitation
for reduction in the immigration programme; this
agitation appears to have produced a “token”
gesture from the Federal Government. Much,
though by no means all, of the agitation has come
from the “Labor” party, which, except for the brief
post-war period when Arthur Calwell was in charge
of immigration, has been traditionally and instinc-
tively opposed to anything more than a trickle of
newcomers.
The party’s policy on the subject has mellowed
considerably since the days when the slogan used
to be “no migrants till every Australian has a job,”
but many of the old hands still have an instinctive
feeling that every new arrival is a menace to some-
one’s job. Recently the old narrow view has
begun to crop up again in questions in Parliament
and letters to the newspapers. In its new form it
suggests that no New Australians should be
brought into the country until all Old Australians
are adequately housed. This has the sound of
commonsense about it and is likely to appeal to
the unthinking, but it is founded on false premises.
It appears to assume that the people to be
housed, whether Old or New Australians, can be
separated entirely from the task of housing them—
that they are merely to be stood on one side while a
third group (called the Government, or the com-
munity, or what you will) builds homes for them. In
reality, of course, both groups participate directly .
and indirectly in the building of homes, and the
impact of migrants on the housing problem is not
one-sided; the extra demand they create for homes
must be weighed against their contribution to the
actual building of homes and to all the industries
associated with the production of building materials.
Ii in proportion to their numbers the migrants are
making a bigger contribution to these industries
than are the native-born, then it cannot be said that
they are aggravating the housing problem.
But criticism of the current scale of migration
is not confined to the “Labor” party or to dis-
gruntled house-hunters. Many members of the
Government parties have been expressing grave
misgivings,, and one Sydney group of newspapers
has been persistent in its demands for a reduction
on the ground that the present rate of intake is
contributing to inflation. This argument is not
different in essentials from the complaint about
housing. It will be true only if it can be shown
that the migration programme is making more
demands on the resources of, the country than can
be counterbalanced by the contribution of the
migrants towards development.
Those who fear the migrants as house-hunting
rivals are forgetting that when the migration-
programme was initiated there was a shortage
of bricks, timber, cement, roofing materials,
galvanised-iron. These deficiencies were due to
shortage of labor, and there was no hope of filling
the shortage except by migration.
New Australians have supplied most of the
new labor in these industries. They have, accord-
ing to Gordon Freeth, M.P., chairman of the Com-
monwealth Immigration Advisory Council, supplied
73 per cent, of the new recruits to the steel-industiy,
enabling it to increase its output by 83 per cent, in
five years. They have been the main labor employed
on the building of powerhouses', oil-refineries, pipe-
lines, water-schemes, hydroelectric projects (includ-
ing the Snowy Mountains Scheme). They comprise
40 per cent, of the work-force in the £lOO-million
motor-industry; their contribution to rural-industry
has been considerable, particularly in seasonal work
such as cane-cutting, fruit-picking and so on; they
are extensively employed in canneries.
As to the inflationary effects of migration, it
should be realised that the proportion of earners
among migrants is much higher than in the general
Australian population; figures quoted by Freeth
are: migrants, 108.5 workers for every hundred
dependants; Australian population, 68.6 workers
for every 100 dependants. On a productivity basis,
therefore, far from aggravating inflation, migrants
should be reducing its pace, especially as 23 per
cent, of their workers are skilled tradesmen, com-
pared with 16.1 per cent, of Old Australians.
W. S. Robinson, former president of the Zinc
Corporation, is one who is opposed to any reduction
in migration:—
I cannot imagine any greater foolishness, or
anything more likely to cause a crisis than to
curtail migration and to reduce development.
He quotes Sir Douglas Copland, who said five
years ago on the same subject that it would be “a
supreme act of folly to cut down the migration-
programme merely because of a clamor against
rising prices.”
Robinson stresses, however, the need for
immigrant capital as well as immigrant people, and
points out that the great flow of migrants into
America during the second half of last centuiy
would not have been possible without the corres-
pondingly large inflow of capital from Europe.
That such an investment-flow occurred is not
generally realised, but its volume was demonstrated
by the huge total of British investments in the
United States in 1914 —all since mobilised to help
finance the two World Wars.
This concept of the need to marry a big
migration policy to a plan for obtaining new money
from abroad was also voiced 30 years ago by Lord
Bruce, then Prime Minister of Australia. He said,
in 1927: —
Only by the wise and prudent expenditure
of borrowed moneys can we bring about that
increase in our power of absorption which will
enable a rapid expansion of our population to
take place without any detriment to the existing
standard of living. ... If our population
increased only at the rate of the past years, our
own annual savings might be sufficient to provide
for our requirements. If, however, we are to
have that necessary acceleration of our numbers,
we must inevitably borrow moneys outside our
own borders. To provide for all our requirements
for development and expansion would mean too
great a depletion of the available supplies in the
local money market, to the detriment of all private
enterprise, and almost of all individual borrowing.
The same situation applies today, in even more
urgent form. Whether the oversea finance is
supplied in the form of loans or of capital invest-
ment is not important to the main argument, which
is that where there is imbalance in the migration
programme it should be corrected by seeking more
migrant money, not fewer migrant people.
Few people nowadays really deny that Aus-
tralia needs immigrants. The dispute begins when
the question of numbers comes up. The shadow
of Asia reaching down almost to our northern
is a grim reminder that if we wish to keep
Australia white we must do something about it
now; we must bring white people here to supple-
ment our natural increase. It is not sufficient to
intend to bring them out later on, when times are
better, when more homes have been built, when
we can do so without risking our living-standards
and so on. People are needed now, and will con-
tinue to be needed for many years to come. When
the post-war migration scheme was first mooted it
was agreed that the acceptance and assimilation of
vast numbers of people of various races would not
be a simple matter. It was realised that difficulties
and problems would arise. But it was also accepted
that these have to be faced and overcome. We are
not facing them if we cut down the numbers as
soon as a few alarmists begin to complain of
growing-pains.


JOB FOR BOB?


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Not a Game"
As Mr. Menzies approached Egypt the
position there became more difficult, and
what the Western Allies think of it is
advertised by their preparations.
The Egyptian official press’s abuse of
Australians, and particularly of Aus-
tralian troops, on the eve of the arrival
of the committee deputed to negotiate
by the London conference; the “dis-
* covery” of a “British spy-ring” in the
best Moscow manner, accompanied by
demands from the inspired Cairo papers
for the execution of the “spies”; the
expulsion of British Embassy officials
and of journalists who have discovered
the extent of the linkage of Nasser with
some of Hitler’s ex-coadjutors: all these
things give cause for alarm. But it is
not so disturbing as the provocative
attitude of Russia, which is sooling the
demented little dictator on towards war
with offers of canal-pilots, which the
Kremlin cannot have at its disposal, and
promises of aid and with threats of what
will happen if the West enforces its treaty
rights.
Nasser waited till the eve of the arrival
of the delegate committee to announce
that he would not compromise or
negotiate on the issue, and the reception
accorded Mr. Menzies on arrival in Cairo
was contemptuous, insulting arid pro-,
vocative.
The running of the canal is becoming
dangerous to shipping through the politi-
cal interference of Egyptian bureaucrats
with the skilled operatives of the
company. The point can’t be far off
when the company and the countries
concerned with keeping the canal open
will have to make a decision as to
whether the pilotage and administrative
force will be withdrawn, or as to what
steps must then be taken to secure that
the 1888 convention continues to operate.
The Menzies committee will be unlikely
to permit the discussion to be drawn-
out as Nasser would like it to be so as
to enable him to make an attempt to
secure pilots from other countries.
It is unlikely, if he did get these pilots,
that the world would trust its shipping
to them. Suez pilotage is a job for
experienced men.
Such reports .of the London confer-
ence as have been received in Australia
have given the impression that if Nasser
does not agree to the proposals of the
majority of the London-conference
Powers, Ceylon and India may support
him ; but this is not true.
They prefer the Indian scheme, but are
apparently not ready to align themselves
fully with a dictator who has the Presi-
dent of Egypt, Neguib, under house-
arrest, and who seems even more of a
megalomaniac than Hitler.
The military preparations of the West
in the Eastern Mediterranean appear to
imply a recognition of the fact that they
are dealing with a mind which may be
under the influence of somebody work-
ing up an excuse to make a sudden
surprise grab at the oilfields, at India
or even Western Europe.
The order of Sir John Harding, issued
in Cyprus to prepare the way for troop-
assembly there, envisions the possible
arrival of forces from virtually all the
countries of the British Commonwealth
including Australia, India and Ceylon,
the United States and France.
Both the canal and the oilfields are in
jeopardy, and it seems clear that the
West is not taking any chances, however
patient and conciliatory the approach of
the Menzies committee may be.
The public, in Australia, at any rate,
doesn’t seem to realise as yet the truth
of what Mr. Menzies said on the eve of
the conference: that the world is in a
“quite dangerous state,” and that' “we
are not just playing a game.”
"Artie" and "Bob"
“Stromlo” : One of the favorite pastimes
of the columnists is to discuss the
relationships between Menzies and
Fadden. Recollections of 1941 and 1943,
and even of some subsequent occasions,
are given an airing, although little is said
by any merchants of mischief about the
close association forged in the fires of
the wilderness and brought to fruition in
1949. Admittedly, “Artie” adds a little
fuel occasionally to the rather dim fire
of past discord by lamenting in
picturesque language the burdens of work
which fall on his capable and well-tried
shoulders when Menzies is abroad, but
no one doubts that the friendship is
firmly welded and that it carries a high
degree of mutual respect. That respect
and admiration has increased on both
sides in recent weeks, and it has been
reflected in the telephone-conversations
and messages which have gone between
the two men.
The Suez affair, and the responsibilities
it has brought to Menzies, have enhanced
the public and private response not only
by the Acting Prime Minister but by
the Government parties generally. The
tributes which have been paid to Menzies
abroad have been echoed by Fadden and
by the Government parties, and it has
been a pleasant aspect of the upset Parlia-
mentary arrangements that the parties
should also have gone out of their way
to pay a well-deserved tribute to Fadden
—one which greatly affected him.
Eden’s message asking that Menzies
should head the committee of five to
present the Suez-conference views to
Nasser was a useful reminder to Aus-
tralians generally that the Prime
Minister’s “wisdom, experience and
counsel” are appreciated overseas. Fadden
replied that the Government had no
hesitation ip requesting Menzies to
accept the invitation. Later he expressed,
in eloquent terms!, the gratification of
the Government at the confidence and
trust reposed in the Prime Minister, and
in his ability to perform ai task which,
in Dulles’s words, “is so vital to the peace
and well-being of so much of the world.”
These are the relations between the two
men at the head of affairs in Australia.
There are no reasons to suggest that they
are, or ever will be, otherwise.
What Economies?
“In the ACT”: Parliament and the tax-
payers last Thursday were given another
dose of economic facts, diluted with
some of the economic generalities which
are becoming so popular with the
Treasury. Many of the statements were
undeniable, and most of the theories were
impeccable.
As expected, the Government patted
itself on the back for its own economic
measures of the past, while admitting at
a latbr stage of the Treasurer’s speech
that the optimistic estimates last March
of receipts from the higher rates of
sales-tax, Customs and excise were not
being realised, although a recovery in
these items was expected “as the year
goes on.” The really thought-provoking
feature of the Budget was that if these
were the estimates of expenditure of
Federal departments after the promised
rigorous pruning-knife had been applied,
how much did they seek in the first
instance?
There is an alarming failure,
emphasised on almost every page of the
detailed documents which few taxpayers
ever see and which fewer could under-
stand, on the part of Ministers and
departments to understand that the goal
of expanded national productivity can-
not be realised while more and more
taxes in total are taken from individuals
and enterprises to bolster-up the grossly
enlarged departments.
Collections of income-tax this year—
a year of allegedly no additional taxation
beyond the higher postal imposts and
some Customs and excise charges on
cathode-ray tubes—are estimated to rise
by nearly £3B million, to £612 million. If
wages continue to rise, this estimate
could once again be greatly exceeded. It
is little wonder that the departments still
feel themselves free to carry on with their
spending spree, heedless of such signs as
the falling of farm-income by 6 per cent.,
the continued pressure for imports
(most of which is for capital goods)
and the complete uncertainty about the
amount and direction of incoming capital
from overseas.
Wowser Heritage
The reply of the Victorian Premier to a
request for an extension of hotel trading-
hours during the Olympic Games was
understandably acidulous, but inaccurate:
“Victorians earlier this year had voted
overwhelmingly to retain six-o’clock clos-
ing, and the Government was bound to
observe the result.”
Henry Bolte’s petulance was forgivable
in a Premier who had had the initiative
to give the people a chance to end the
hotel-swill and saw it rejected, but the
Victorian voting was not overwhelming.
The final result was 804,875 to 529,951
in favor of early-closing, so that a swing
of 11 per cent.- would have given the
later-closing advocates a win. The per-
centages were 60.3 and 39.7.
The Victorian referendum was, of
course, no real criterion of what
Victorians think. Only two voting
districts gave majorities for later-closing—
the better-off, more-travelled and
knowledgeable citizens of Toorak and the
even better-travelled and knowledgeable
citizens of seaport Port Melbourne —but
the late-closing campaign was conducted
as though it were bound to fail.
It was so high-toned and superior it was
far above the average voter’s head. In
a campaign in which mass votes were
needed, it was so genteel and tepid it
seemed an obvious loser long before the
numbers went up, and, in the middle of
the campaign, the Victorian breweries,
like a Victorian lady gathering up her
skirts, announced fheir withdrawal, for,
like the lady again, some mincing, uncon-
vincing reason.
The “temperance” people (usually
prohibitionists) had .no such scruples.
They were chiefly the old, old men who
had been telling Melburnians in the
’twenties that the city would perish in
hellfire if trains were run on Sunday-
morning, that suburban councillors who
opened municipal tennis-courts at any
time on Sunday would die of the palsy,
that dancing was sinful and similar
poppycock that got their names and
inhibitions into the newspapers.'
They conducted a campaign of fear.
All sorts Of half-truths from vague undis-
closed sources in N.S.W. (possibly Sydney
“Sun” and “Mirror”) were used to show
that Sydney after dark was a city of
reeling adolescents, callous, drunken
parents and starving, screaming, terrified
children and infants. Naturally, they
won.
A second Victorian campaign run by a
group of representative citizens, headed
by a sound, sagacious liberal, might easily
swing the needed votes, and more. In
the meantime Premier Bolte should think
again before he advertises the wowser
blight in Australia to important people
from overseas during the Games.
Capital Drinking
“Mugga Way”: Canberra’s law-abiding
citizenry (“I do not know of any other
city of comparable size with less crime
than Canberra,” says the A.C.T. Chief
Commissioner of Police) glowed with
virtuous pride the other day when they
learned from Interior Minister Allen
Fairhall that the introduction of late-
trading for licensed premises during the
year had caused no increase in
drunkenness, and from a police point of
view was working well. This is a gratify-
ing announcement, especially as the
quantity of liquor per head consumed in
Canberra before late-closing was regarded
as an Australian record, despite the
claims of Darwin and some other thirsty
spots in the north. There is no reason
to suppose that the quantity has declined
much recently, although higher prices
have affected consumption generally in
Australia, to the dismay of the Bungs
and the concern of the Federal Treasurer.
However, one factor in the good
behavior may have been the long and
cold winter. Not too many people go
out on the bitter nights, either for pub-
drinking or for nefarious purposes, and
the real test of the new system may come
in the summer ahead. The odds are that
things will continue to be satisfactory.
One important difference from the
surrounding State of N.S.W. is that
there is no closing for dinner hy the hotel
bars. In consequence there is no “swill”
at 6.15 p.m. or any other time, and most
people are at home in reasonable time
for their evening meal. Bars now close
at 10 p.m., restaurants (for liquor-
consumption) at midnight. Registered
clubs have unrestricted hours.
The police-chief believes that the
standard of hotels in the A.C.T. compares
“very favorably with the best anywhere
in Australia,” and he says, rightly, that
systematic inspection has brought about
a steady improvement in the conditions
of buildings and furniture. He is correct
also in claiming that the police-super-
vision has helped to ensure better service
to the public in the vital aspects of meals
and accommodation. All this is satisfac-
tory. It could be that the national capital,
criticised so often, will achieve civilisa-
tion before the rest of Australia, and
set an example which its citizens will
hold up, a trifle smugly, to the remainder
of the nation.
Ventilating a Grievance
\
“Man in the Street” is justly indignant:
I take strong exception to a remark by Mr.
E. S. Wolfenden regarding his report on
Parliamentary salaries. Ido this with a certain
amount of hesitation, as it is entirely foreign
to my customary habit to give an opinion to
the press without invitation, although, as is well
known, I am only too happy to do so when
invited.
I do, after all, enjoy a certain standing in the
community. Not so high perhaps as film-stars,
visiting pops-singers or wealthy bookmakers,
but still high enough to be respected. More-
over, I feel that I’ve earned my status by my
unwavering attention to what I conceive to be
my public duty. Any reporter will tell you
that no matter what time of the day or night I
am approached, I am always ready and willing
to give a carefully considered opinion on any
topic of current interest —the situation in the
Middle East, child delinquency, the length of
frocks, the shortage of potatoes, decline of the
theatre, import-restrictions, poker-machines,
why girls leave home, automation, how to
grow orchids, polygamy, railway-losses or should
octogenarians choose a marriage-partner older or
younger than themselves. And I think I am
entitled to say, without boasting, that my
opinion on these varied topics is valued. It must
be, otherwise the press would not seek it so
assiduously.
My feelings, therefore, can well be imagined
on reading Mr. Wolfenden’s comments. To
begin with: “You can’t treat a politician on the
same basis as the man in the street.” 1 must
politely ask, “Why not?” No one defers more
to my opinion than the politician. He seldom
makes a move without finding out in advance
how I’ll react to it. He is continually claiming
that he represents my viewpoint, and he often
admits that it is my vote that keeps him in
Parliament.
Mr. Wolfenden continues: “You wouldn’t
expect him to go about dressed like a work-
man.” Again, “Why not?” Bowyangs, blucher-
boots and moleskins went out years ago, and
it is no longer an easy matter to pick a man’s
occupation by his dress.
If Mr. Wolfenden had stopped there I would
never have written this complaint. If he wishes
to distinguish between politicians and myself,
that doesn’t worry me. Not only politicians have
their pride. And if he suggests that Igo about
dressed like a workman, I’ll not deny it.
The sting of his remark, one might say, is in
the tail. He concludes “or go to Government
House with the seat out of his trousers.” That,
I consider, is an insult to myself and to the
public which has hung upon my words for more
years than I care to remember. I cannot allow
such a remark to go unchallenged. I am not in
the habit of going to Government House with
the seat out of my trousers! I have never gone
to Government House with the seat out of my
trousers! I shall never go to Government House
with the seat out of my trousers!
As I said before, I am prepared to ventilate
my views on any subject at any time, provided
I am approached in the proper manner. But I
do not seek my own ventilation through the
seat of my pants.
Eager and Hannan
“C.C.”: The Liberals refused to endorse
Sir Clifden Eager for East Yarra at the
Victorian Legislative Council elections in
1952 because he hadn’t come to the
rescue in a critical division in the House;
Eager claimed he couldn’t, as president.
They put up ' George Hannan, a well-
known solicitor and sound party man,
but Eager won by 57,525 votes to 42,136,
“Labor” neatly stepping aside. “Labor,”
however, won half-a-dozen seats at the
election, and the unpopularity of Menzies
(“Horror Budget” hysteria) at the time
was given as the cause.
The president has since remained out
of the fold, and last year he put up his
son, Cliff Eager, a Melbourne journalist,
also as an Ind. Lib. for East Yarra, but
both party-machines ran over him. (Lib.,
57,044; Cain Lab., 22,677; Ind. Lib.,
13,777 ; Barry-Lab., 10,551.) So it seems,
with a Labor runner in the field at the
next East Yarra election, the elder Eager
will be in strife.
I had almost forgotten all this until,
looking down on the joint meeting of
both Houses of Parliament last week, I
became aware of the lengthy and precise
details of how to cast a formal vote being
given by the president of the Legislative
Council, who presided over the joint
meeting.
Almost opposite him in the Speaker’s
gallery was George Hannan, his old
adversary at East Yarra, who had been
chosen that morning by the Liberals to
succeed Senator", Spicer in Canberra,
although a large section of them had
wanted ex-Senator Magnus Cormack.
Sir Clifden Eager’s instructions on how
to cast a formal vote naturally conveyed
also to any who wished to be wrong-’uns
that if these were not followed the vote
cast would be informal. Five votes were
informal, in fact; Hannan got 71, and
there were 10 for John Cameron, the
forlorn hope nominated by the Anti-Com.
Labs.
John Cain, the Opposition-leader, made
the best speech of the joint gathering, and
deftly extracted a promise from the
Premier that in the event of the removal
of a “Labor” Senator, the Government
would nominate a “Labor” man. “I give
an unqualified assurance,” said Bolte,
although there was nothing Cain’s party
could have done other than be a
nuisance.
Bolte’s assurance was sincere, politics
in Victoria being Somewhat more civilised
than they are in N.S.W. and Queensland,
thank the Lord.
Dr. Burton's United Front
So far has the Federal Labor Parlia-
mentary policy drifted towards the Left
that there is’nothing astonishing in the
spectacle of Dr. Evatt commending the
recent pamphlet issued by his old hench-
man, Dr. Burton, called “The Light Grows
Brighter.”
When the Leftists have wanted a
o Continued on next page)


candidate-leader, or a slanted Australian
history, or defence of their national
sabotage, or internment of their enemies,
Dr. Evatt has been there. If the Soviet
Union is for anything in foreign policy—-
for Nasser, for the M.V.D., for Red
China, for Australian disarmament —Dr.
Evatt has been vocal in his help.
The fact that his followers, who profess
to hate everything he supports, make no
murmur is just as natural. Mr. Calwell
may be a Cassius, and he may have many
accomplices, but, if so, they keep their
daggers.well hidden.
Other things are happening in the
“Labor” party which are amazing. To
observe the Federal executive, and parti-
cularly men like Mr. Chamberlain, the
president, stand by why while a
N.S.W. State executive, placed in office
without rank-and-file authority, is allowed
to suppress an annual conference
at which it believes it will be defeated
and expel every person who has or
shows signs of combating its viewpoint,
is like watching the death of the party
ideals. There are now no rules or
platform ; only Dr. Evatt’s law.
Free-speech has always been a tenet
of “Labor.” But it is dying with the
expulsions of men like Alan Manning,
Kane and others whose main opposition
is to the wholesale adoption of Com-
munist policies. They desire that the
rank-and-file should be given the oppor-
tunity to vote on the grave issues of
policy which were raised at the Hobart
conference.
Mr. Manning’s “crime” was, seem-
ingly, that he used the capitalist
press which Dr. Evatt uses on
every available occasion—to reach the
widest possible “Labor” audience and
advise members not to leave the party but
to stay in and fight for moderation against
treachery, against the adoption of an
alliance with Moscow and an integration
of Australian Labor’s plans with those
of the Communist party for the over-
throw of the present system of life and
government.
Mr. Chamberlain, in his foreword to
Dr. Burton’s pamphlet, says that it “could
be a useful book”’ and that it has a
“worthy title,” and he commends it as a
basis for discussio|i.
Khrushchev has explicitly advised all
overseas Communist parties to use
alliances with “Labor” parties in Parlia-
ment to secure control of the Parlia-
mentary machine for the purpose to
taking over.
Dr. Burton, with the approval of Dr.
Evatt; asks that Australian “Labor”
“welcome any common ground
which can honestly be found between the
Communists and Socialists, and which
can make coexistence practical and co-
operation possible.” He interprets the
objectives of Socialism and Communism
in Australia as being fundamentally
common to both the Communist party
and “Labor,” and Dr. Evatt seems to
agree.
Further “common ground has been
reached by the N.S.W. executive’s estab-
lishment of a doctrine that when members
of the “Labor” party disagree with their
leaders and dictators they should be
incontinently purged, as have been
Manning, Kane and their supporters.
POLITICAL POINTS
Another Olympic Record to Russia —
the first discus-thrower to abscond from
bail.
• •
Evatt doesn’t like Fadden’s Budget;
the Chambers of Commerce don’t like it;
the Chambers of Manufactures don’t like
itj; the A.C.T.U. doesn’t like it. On the
whole it must be a pretty sound job.
• •
Midday posters made last Thursday a
shocking day in Sydney. The “Sun”
screamed “Shock Police Probe” and the
“Mirror” countered with “Railways:
Shock Sackings Threatened.”
• •
It must be a great weight off Paddy
Hills’s mind to learn that in accepting the
Lord Mayoral £6OOO a year in addition to
his salary as M.L.A. for Phillip he is not
infringing “Labor’s” sacred principle of
“one man, one job.” The A.L.P. State
executive has ruled that the six-thousand
smackers don’t constitute a. salary as they
are “allocated for a specific purpose.”
• •
Asked by the Local Government
Association to abandon proportional-
representation in municipal elections and
return to the former system of preferential
voting, N.S.W. Local Government
Minister Renshaw refused, saying that
there had been no evidence of a public
demand for the change. There was no
evidence of a public demand for p.-r., but
that didn’t stop his Government from
bringing it in.
• •
New Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives John McLeay is the fourth
South Australian to occupy the chair.
His predecessors were Sir Frederick
Holder, the first • Speaker (1901-09),
Norman Makin (1929-32), and Archie
Cameron (1950-56). McLeay served one
term in the South Australian Parliament
and has been M.H.R. for Boothby since
1949.
• •
Rommel never reached Cairo, but it
seems that some of his colleagues did.
• •
Contrary to expectations, ex-Senator
Cormack didn’t win the Government
nomination for the Victorian Senate
vacancy. It went to George Conrad
Hannan, who was subsequently declared
elected at a joint sitting of the Victorian
Parliament. Hannan is a 45-year-old
solicitor who has made three unsuccess-
ful attempts at State and Federal elec-
tions. He served in the R.A.N. during
the war.
• •
Ten votes cast at the joint sitting of the
Victorian Parliament to elect a successor
to Senator Spicer are intriguing mystery-
lovers. Government candidate was G. C.
Hannan ; Cain “Labor” did not nominate,
and Anti-Communist “Labor” put up
J. D. Cameron. In the circumstances
voting was a mere formality with
Hannan a certainty and Cameron just
going along for the run. Counting gave
Hannan 71 votes, Cameron 10 and there
were five informals. On the surface
there’s nothing strange in that—except
that there were only five Anti-Corns,
present at the sitting. Who gave
Cameron his other five votes? And who
were the five who abstained? Country-
party men who didn’t want either candi-
date? Libs, who didn’t want Hannan?
Cain men of lukewarm allegiance? If
the last alternative is the right one the
deviationists should be glad the secret
ballot wasn’t conducted under N.S.W.
Parliamentary “Labor” rules.
• •
N. S. Wales State Budget provides for
an estimated surplus of £36,935, but that
doesn’t mean a thing. Last year’s
estimated deficit was £2,271,800, but the
final deficiency was £6,833,520.
• •
Despite steep increases in fares and
freights, expected to bring in £5,811,000
extra this financial year, Cahill’s rail-
ways have budgeted for a loss of
£3,850,000. Tram- and bus-earnings,
thanks to higher fares, are expected to
be up £2,460,000, but taxpayers will still
have to find £1,835,000 to cover the
department’s deficit. If the policy of
adding quarterly adjustments to State
wages is continued these figures will be
merely a starting point to work from.
In effect, Cahill’s new taxes —land-tax,
poker-machines tax and hire-purchase
tax —have been levied to pay for transport
losses.
• •
Fifteen candidates are seeking the
L.C.L nomination for Archie Cameron’s
seat, Barker. The selection should be
announced at the weekend.
• •
“K.P.”: Half-expecting that Cahill’s
Budget speech might be on the air at
prima-dQnna time on Wednesday night I
glanced at the radio-programmes in the
evening paper. Joe wasn’t listed, but
2UE’s 8 p.m. offering seemed to cover
him. It was “Cop the Lot.”
• •
In view of the reports of numerous
Russian flights from their present
Antarctic base, a report by the Australian
Antarctic team is of particular interest.
This said that while the southern winter
immobilised most aircraft, the Behver air-
craft at Mawson had been carrying out
record flights under conditions never
previously faced by pilots in Antarctica.
The flights had been made possible
because a hangar built earlier this year
had permitted the garaging and servicing
of the aircraft under cover. “No other
Antarctic base has this facility.” Wonder
if the Russians will allow us to get away
with this “first.”
• •
“In the ACT”: Tentative plans were
made by the Federal Treasurer last week
for a trip to Washington later this month
for the annual meeting of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund. Sir “Artie”
attended the last one in Istanbul, and he
feels that the coming one may be of vital
importance to Australia, and that he
should be there. Two factors may pre-
vent him. One is the possible continued
absence of the Prime Minister over the
Suez negotiations, the other the critical
illness of his own son. The situation
makes the selection of a deputy-leader
of the Liberal party urgent and important.
The new leader may step at once into
the role of Acting-Prime Minister, if
Menzies and Fadden are both away when
Harrison resigns to prepare for his
LocdoD job.
• • t
*“C.C. n : Many Liberals regretted
Magnus Cormack’s failure to get the
Liberal nomination for the Victorian
Senate vacancy ; but Hannan, who had
contested two forlorn hopes for the party
in addition to East Yarra, was due for
a political break. The Liberals in Vic-
toria have lately been showing more
respect for their workers and rather less
—I am not referring here tc Cor mack—
to rich social-climbers and charming pin-
heads.
• •
In the financial year 1953-3 b the Cahill
Government collected £1,556,548 in
betting-tax, £1,104,352 totalisatcr-tax,
£41,938 in bookmakers’ fees, £36,878
from greyhound-racing and £4,236,72(5
from lotteries. Grand total, £6,976,436.
Bruxner calls it “taxation by anaesthesia.
This year the poker-machine tax will add
another £1 million to the painless-extrac-
tion pool.
• •
“Stromlo”: In the disturbed state of
the world the naturalisation of migrants
is assuming more importance than pre-
viously. Of the 200,000 or so now eligible,
only about 70,000 have been naturalised ;
another 35,000 applications are being
considered. The Immigration Depart-
ment stresses that citizenship is not auto-
matic, and that the granting of it is a
privilege, to be sought by all, but granted
only to those worthy of it. There is no
suggestion of compulsion, but the figures
suggest that greater efforts could be made
to remind the new arrivals that they have
civic responsibilities as well as, rights.
The percentages naturalised out of those
eligible in the various States are: N.S.W.
33.2, Victoria 36.2, Queensland 38, South
Australia 40.8, West Australia 31.6, and
Tasmania 33.9.
• •
Insurance companies have promised
Vic. Premier Bolte to make available
£400,000 for home-purchase under his
Home Finance Act. This will finance
160-170 homes. The State Bank had
already guaranteed £500,000, sufficient to
cover 200 homes.
• •
On a population basis beer-drinking
increased more in Australia last year
than in any other country. Actual
increases were: Western Germany, 76
million gallons; U.S.A., 37 .million
gallons ; France, 37 million gallons ; Aus-
tralia, 23 million gallons; Britain, 11
million gallons. It’s not exactly a record
to boast of.
• •
Vic. A.L.P. executive, which has been
moving steadily ■ to the Left since the
Doc.’s win over the industrial-groups,
is sending party-members to the “Peace”
Assembly in Sydney. Bland explanation:
they’ll attend as individuals, not as party
reps.
• •
“Mugga Way”: It’s 500 years this year
since Tokyo was founded, and rather less
since a good portion of it was destroyed
by fire-bombs. To celebrate the founding
the Governor of Tokyo is inviting 109
mayors from the capitals and cities of
49 countries to join in the commemora-
tive and festive events, to be held from
October 1 to 15. There’ll also be talks
on postwar-reconstruction, administra-
tion, industry, trade and tourism.
Price-control was dead;
Joe wouldn’t bring it back:
When you’re in the Red
Why change it for the Black ?
If they took to heart
Humble people’s cares
They might have had to start
By fair-renting Fares.
N.S.W.
YACCA.
Since Joe and the Bandit are wedded so
snugly
Let Clubmen beware, for the prospect is
ugly;
Their sixpences, shillings and florins will
go
Zn part to the Bandits, in part to friend
Joe;
But how will they know, for 1 cari-t
understand it,
Which one is Joe, and which is the
Bandit ?
N.S.W.
D.T.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
-DERTHED in Brisbane, H.M.A.S. Mel-
** bourne has aboard two helicopters,
three motor-launches and six Land
Rovers. School-holidays on, and the
carrier open to the public, a few thousand
kids have peered, poked and pried, and
almost decided to join the Navy in due
course. What really decided some, and
lost the Army and Air Force recruits, was
the Admiral stepping out. A wickedly
adventurous-looking black limousine was
slung to the wharf, and the great man, all
sparkling gold-braid and -buttons, entered
and was whisked away with noiseless
dignity, thereby doing a far better recruit-
ing job than all the ads. and posters.—
“Rimutuka.”
♦Jt *2*
“L.G.”: Our street divides councils;
their garbage-men scour the north and
south sides around 10.30 on Monday
mornings. This Monday Mr. North, who
empties us, didn’t turn-up on time, but
Mr. South arrived with a new recruit who
saw our rubbish and put it on the cart
before Mr. South was properly a wake-
up. “What are you doing?” Mr. South
said at last. “Putting the muck in the
cart,” said the new recruit. “Well, Mr.
Smarty-Pants., you can now take it all off
again and without gloves. We aren’t
taking the other council’s muck, you
dill!” So poor Dill scraped our dis-
reputable muck back into our bin, and
they drove away happily seated upon
their own council’s select muck. •
♦♦♦
“Willie Nillie”: After many years as
standard conduct-money (the sum
handed to a witness with a subpoena,
primarily to pay his fare to the place of
trial), the humble deener will not, unless
the witness lives within a few blocks of
the court, now suffice. Marvellous the
ramifications of inflation, aren’t they?
❖ ❖
“Sir Jay”: “McHarg” was not his real
name, but anyone who was stationed at
Cootamundra during the early years of
the war will remember the C. 0., “Phil
the Dill” —some not very kindly, having
been fooled by his sleepy manner into a
false security. He scared hell out of me
on my secondhand knowledge of him.
But he cured me of that the night I was
a stand-in switchboard-operator:
“McHarg here.” I didn’t recognise the
voice. “Who?” He repeated it, and still
I didn’t get it. “Spell it, sir.” He did so,
and again I missed out. “Phil the bloody
Dill”—I got it that time. I was told to
report to him when I came off duty. This
I did, and he took one look at me. “Oh,
not a switchboard-operator! Technical
library, aren’t you?” I admitted it. “Why
the hell are you scared of me?” I looked
at him speechless and wide-eyed, gulped
and said nothing. “Listen, look at me.
Now, just think of me in my bath.” He
was over six-feet, thin as a rake, and yet
still looked like a drooping lily with a
mo. The picture was too much for me,
and I laughed. He laughed, too.
“Wouldn’t scare anything, would I?
Whenever anyone overawes you in future,
just put ’em in a bath.” If you should
read this, Phil, thanks a lot for some
advice which has served me faithfully a
number of times since that night.
♦♦♦ *>
“Ardoyne”: Entry in an Australian
writers’ marketing guide:
Brighter Business, Box 975 M, G.P.0.,
Brisbane. Ceased publication.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Bookie’s Dog”: The Melbourne men
who clock the training-gallops the whole
year round know spring is here when their
ranks are augmented by amateurs anxious
to spot a likely “Two Cups Double.” It
is doubtful if the amateurs get any
tangible reward. At dawn, without race-
book and saddle-cloth numbers, the
average punter has no chance of identify-
ing the horses. 'lf a regular spares time to
point out the champions, the amateur still
has little idea of the merit of a gallop. It
takes a practised eye to gauge how much
effort a horse is putting into his work,
how he is shod, the weight carried, and
how far he is advanced in condition. Still,
if he doesn’t spot winners, the amateur
gets some good talking-points for the
session at the pub after work: “When
I was at the track this morning ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fitz”: I was taking Christine, my six-
year-old Somerset-born granddaughter,
for a train-ride. On Sutherland (N.S.W.)
station she overheard a middle-aged
couple in conversation, and asked, “Are
you from Pommyland ? ” “Pommyland! ”
they both echoed in bewilderment. “Yes,-
Pommyland you know, England,”
Christine said a trifle impatiently. The
male party told her they were. Christine
remarked almost with condescension, “I
thought so. You know, I talked like a
Pommy once, but now I’m a dinkum
Aussie. Don’t worry, you’ll talk like an
Aussie after a little while.” "
♦< •
“Opsimath”: What’s this epidemic
“friendliness” which has afflicted the
advertising copy-writers all of a sudden?
Everything from grog to gravestones is
now being retailed the “friendly” way.
Some point, perhaps, in blurbing a
“friendly” restaurant —one has seen quite
enough of the deep-frozen sort —and the
implications of a “friendly” dry-cleaner
or chain of grocery-stores are only mildly'
"Go on! You don't look a day older than two-hundred-and-forty!"
inane. But newspapers have been carry-
ing an advertisement showing an egg
politely raising its hat, with the caption:
“Eggs are such a friendly food ” I
wonder what eggs think of that one?
“Hack”: Ihe “Courtyard of Dream
Love,” a mural by Kevin Bartlett at the
Hotel Menai at Burnie (Tas.), depicts a
pair of lovers in a courtyard of oddly-
assorted architectural ruins, denoting the
timelessness of love. Particular pieces
symbolise the triumph of marriage and an
“This'll bring him down a peg or two!"
ultimate goal of serenity and happiness —
the sort of thing you could really believe
in after four schooners.
❖ »> ❖
“Narumee”: To open, -without severe
injury, a tin of instant coffee, take a cork-
screw, a gimlet, a small chisel, a hammer
and a pair of pliers. Remove the lid,
use the corkscrew to make a hole in the
sheet of tempered steel that now conceals
the contents; insert the chisel in the
hole, and force up the cover, making sure
that most of the rim of the tin rises with
it. Now scrape up the coffee that has
exploded from within, grip the cover with
the pliers, and, averting the face and
closing the eyes, twist sharply. Wipe
coffee off neck, and brush it out of hair,
then, using the hammer and chisel, care-
fully knock rim of tin into place, so that
the lid can be replaced. Alternatively,
empty coffee into a screw-top jar, except
for what won’t come out, and wonder
why it can’t be sold in jars, as in ads. in
the American magazines.
>j>
“W.P.T.”: The “Sir” in Sir Robert
Bear being a baptismal name (B.
15/8/’56) brings to mind Sir “Earl” Page
and the great Australian sculler, “Major”
Goodsall. At Auburn (Sydney) is Dr.
“Doctor” Doctor, and a clergyman on
the South Coast (N.S.W.) who died a few
years ago had Upjohn for a surname, and
his parents christened him Rouse.
♦2* ❖ »>
“Melboy”: A Brisbane breakfast-
session compere introduces a pleasant
little gremlin who supposedly emerges
from a hole in a disk each morning, calls
him Marmaduke, talks to him and chides
him often for atrocious grammar. Marm.
becomes a hot favorite with small fry,
and wins one toddler’s heart to the extent
of her making him a tiny tartan outfit,
with sports-coat and tie. The compere,
on public display in a broadcasting exhibit
at Brisbane Show, is overwhelmed by the
arrival of small fry from all corners of
the State with one demand: “Where’s
Marmaduke?” He extricates himself
with the excuse, dubiously received, that
M. dived down a hole in a disk and
hasn’t been seen since. There is stern
disapproval that the compere is wasting
time at the Show instead of organising an
all-out search. Back in the studio,
Marmaduke reappears, pleads shyness,
receives the father of all scoldings from
the compere, and promises never to
offend again.
❖ ♦>
“J.J.S.”: Preparations for the Olympics
having been almost completed; Mel-
bourne can be proud of having so many
large buildings and stadiums. The
Exhibition Buildings, usually used for
Public and Matriculation examinations,
are to be used for Olympic Wrestlings,
but this kind of thing has happened
before, and the examinations would just
naturally go to the St. Kilda Town Hall—
except that it will be full of Olympic
fencers. So the examinees will have to
go to the Royal Melbourne Showground,
and some are protesting in song: “Don’t
Fence Me In! ” while others say that one
of the test-questions should be: “Is the
pen mightier than the sword?”
* * *
“Travel”: I was reminded of that
troublesome drain that is on most people’s
mind by falling over the leather pouff in
front of the fire . . . Port
Said, with its trimmings of
feluccas, great fishing-nets
spread high on their masts
to dry. Gyppos in fez and
burnous, lounging and
squatting along the edges of
the canal, bumboats coming
out to the ship in dozens,
laden with every sort of
tourist trap, from laundry-
baskets, hats and bags to—
this leather pouff. How 1
bargained! How that Gyppo
swore at me, in a mixture
of everything, quite a few
of our Australian adjectives
in the collection. Finally 1
told him I would get them
from one of the other boats,
all this at the shout from
’way up: “Get them, you
!” But he kept up a
constant call to me: “Mrs.
Melbourne, Mrs. Sydney.”
At last he capitulated, and
tied three of them on to
the rope, muttering impre-
cations. We hauled them
up. Got them for the
equivalent of 225. Quite a
satisfactory deal for us both,
I imagine. We had to
take them to our cabin and lock them in.
We had been given instructions to do this,
also to lock the porthole, as our friends
have a way of scaling the sides of the
ship, and also fishing for things through
open portholes—nowadays they probably
call it “nationalisation.”
♦> »>
“Wusslean”: Another bit of deadly
monotonous cricket jargon (B. 22/8/’56)
is the description of the not-out batsmen
at the close of a day’s play as “the night-
watchmen.” No doubt gave pleasure
when it was coined, and admittedly the
English wickets have behaved trickily this
season, but the only time when once is
enough for a sports-writer is when he is
sifted into his urn.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kate”: The hasty wedding of an
Australian girl and a New Australian
unable to speak more than a few words
of English was explained away by the
town’s wit as being the mere result of
unfortunate circumstance — the girl
couldn’t understand his language and
he didn’t know the meaning of the word
“no.”
♦> ❖ ❖
WONDER what our overseas visitors
will shoot now they’re to be allowed
to take home their own movie-films with-
out scrutiny by our Customs. Bikinis at
Bondi, rum-making (or whatever it is) at
Rum Jungle, lairs at the ’Cross, Cabinet
in Canberra or koalas at Taronga? The
decision will be welcomed by the
thousands coming from overseas for the
Olympics; cameras will probably work
overtime in Melbourne in November,
weather permitting. Perhaps the Russians
will take some shots of the 6-o’clock-swill
as a horrid warning of the defects ot
Western civilisation. —“Stromlo.”
♦♦♦ ❖
“Grace looks radiant now ”
She’s to be a ma;
It is news, somehow,
Happening to a star.
n.s.w. P. O. M. C.
A TIMELY THOUGHT
N.s.w.
It’s time that haggard
Hepcat, Spring,
Rouged and mascara’d
Began to sing ;
The old, cracked voice,
The foolish dream
For girls and boys . . .
“Listen ! Our theme !”
A corny number
That’s been remade
Into a rhumba
For the Hit Parade !
SWILLIAM.


'THE State Savings Bank of Victoria,
A announcing in the “Age” the opening
of a new branch at Huntingdale, added the
name of the Band Manager—no doubt
an answer to the trading-banks’ flowers
and window-boxes. Shakspeare foresaw
it all: “I know a Bank where the wild
thyme grows, where the ox-lip of the
budding band-manager blows.” Soon
they’ll be handing-out samples—“Ceg.”
Z* Z* z*
“J.H.”: Stamp-dealers are hard-
pressed, but not licked: from Sydney and
Melbourne some are sending selections of
stamps to collectors all over Australia,
with letters saying how good the stamps
are and that there is no need to pay on
the nail, but £1 or £2 a week, according to
income. If this amounts to a hire-
purchase agreement, and they have to
pay stamp-duty on it, it just shows how
stamps make stamps.
4*4 . tjf
“Narumee”: If a bra.-wearer who
favors back-fastenings has an injured
thumb (B. 22/8/’56) someone, even if
he’s only a husband, can help. But what
about trying to weave a tight-fitting roll-
on girdle over that part of woman which,
in spite of the Misses Russell and
Monroe, is so unfortunately often dispro-
portionately large? How can that b‘e done
minus a workable thumb? And how can
even a husband help? It’s the synchro-
nisation of the pull-and-wiggle that
does it.
►> ♦> »>
“Lorna Doone”: A dissatisfied
customer had been having considerable
correspondence with the liaison-officer of
a big store. Eventually all was adjusted
to his satisfaction, and he wrote saying
so, rounding-off the letter with: “I have
looked up ‘liaison’ and the dictionary
gives it as ‘lllicit intimacy between man
and woman’ . . . What a job you’ve got!”
* ❖ ❖
“Smithy”: The porteress who clipped
my ticket on Hobart’s rail-terminal the
other evening was quite cornfy in her
little box with her shoes off and wriggling
stocking-clad toes. “For comfort?” I
said. “No,” she said, “for warmth. My
feet are freezing.” Then I saw the neat
little footwarmer on the floor.
♦♦4 <4 *
“Smithy”: While Tasmanian house-
wives search hopelessly, in corners of
their wornout purses and children gaze
at apples priced almost beyond buying,
hundreds of bushels of, Tasmania’s
national fruit are being dumped.
❖ *>
“Ceg”: That item about annual
balance-days in banks (B. 22/8/’56) took
me back to long, before its lady clerks,
when salaries were on the thin side, but
beer was only 3d. a pot. On half-yearly
balance-nights the helots used to adjourn
for “tea.” Tea-money of Is. 6d. was
allowed ; i.e., six pots. At 6.30 p.m.,
when work was due to start again, perhaps
half the staff would be there, and it was
then that the sub-accountant would
engage a four-wheeled horse-drawn cab
and raid the two hostelries which were
the known stamping-grounds of that
particular branch. Delivering his load,
he would go out and pick up another lot.
I have an idea that the banks wouldn’t
stand for that sort of thing nowadays.
❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Endean’s piebald cow
(B. 22/8/’56) reminds me of that dia-
grammed or partitioned animal I find in
cookery-books indicating the various
departments and cuts of meat. P’raps
Dolly’s message over the air in the
cartoon is a protest against the new
method of marketing her product—in
cartons? Partly smothered by
strawberry or chocolate additives, the
novel container itself lends milk an
entirely new flavor a strong tang of
carton!
* ♦> *
“Pip Tok”: The Sydney alderman
who complained about the uneven
spacing of city trams (B. 15/8/’56) should
be in Perth in midsummer, when the W.A.
Education Department is running its
swimming-classes for school kids, and
it is nothing to see a crowded tramcar
followed by j three or four empties on
their way to take youngsters to or from
the city baths. During the war a stout
matron pushed her way into a tram,
"I hate to leave. It's the first time the house has been warm this winter .”
complaining about the string of empties
following: “Well, I suppose we must
blame the war.” “Yes, madam,” the
conductor assured her, “but since we
started the convoy-system we haven’t
lost a tram.”
♦j* *!♦
“Kurramia”: Ask the 18-year-old
about Chips Rafferty or Peter Finch, and
get the answers ; but don’t ask him about
Australia’s literary heritage. Writers in
WA. are proud owners of Tom Collins
House, the last home of Joseph Furphy ;
every September they hold an afternoon-
party there. The young press-photo-
grapher, arriving when last year’s party
was about to boil the billy, sought out a
likely-looking bloke. “This Mr. Collins’s
house?” Writer John K. Ewers agreed it
was. “You Mr. Collins?” He was not.
“But this is his party?” It was. “Is he
around somewhere?” “No,” said J.K.E.,
“he’s dead, you know.” “Oh,” said the
youth with the camera, dropping his voice
to suit the news, “I’m sorry to hear that.
Was it sudden?” Which reminds me that,
waiting on the wharf at Fremantle for
the steamer from England, I asked a
press-cameraman if he was looking for
celebrities. He was. “Vance Palmer’s on
board,” I volunteered. “Who’s he? Any
relation to Ambrose?”
“0.W.W.”: A boarding-house in our
N.Z. town installed new tables and chairs
in the diningroom, and put up a notice:
“Guests ,are requested to treat the new
furniture with due care and considera-
tion.” But you can’t please everybody,
and somebody pencilled underneath: “As
a mark of respect the cook has decided
to wash before work each morning.”
“Ardoyne”: When the British Com-
monwealth’s first gas from brown coal
at Morwell (Vic.) is made available to
Melbourne housewives in October, seven
scientists and technicians all under 30 will
be in charge of the £lO-million project,
selected because youth is considered
appropriate to control a young industry.
Five of them have already visited
Germany to study brown-coal gas-manu-
facture. They will be in charge of about
150 men; the acting works-manager will
be the only executive over 30 years of age.
■igt
“Doormat”: South Street Competitions
at Ballarat (Vic.) have exceeded last year’s
entry-total by another 100, to reach the
all-time high of 3756. Twenty-five choirs
have entered, and 50 bands. The unfor-
tunate judges will have to endure 1223
vocal soloists, 267 infant pianoqprodigies,
and 1141 dancing darlings. A hundred-
and-twenty-one want to sing in opera. The
torture will last two months.
<£♦ 4J4
“Pat Decrcesus”: The 750-ton freighter
Comara (she’s been laid-up at Garden
Island, W.A., for almost six months)
loaded at Fremantle for Darwin 639
tons of grog—2o,ooo cartons, 2000 cases
and 1300 kegs—a man-made Wet.
<£» 4J4
“W.P.T.”: Take a drive along
practically any of the quiet streets in
Sydney’s outer suburbs and you will see
roadsides and any vacant land littered
with rubbish dumped at night or week-
ends by motorists. Motorists are not
entirely to blame. If you have rubbish
you wish to get rid of you cannot put
it out with the household-garbage to be
collected by the council carts, and if you
take it to your council rubbish-tip, you
have to pay a stiff fee for tipping it, or
else you are told you’re not allowed to
tip rubbish there. If councils had any
consideration for their ratepayers they
would have free tips. As it is, the councils
have to pay staff to clean-up roadside
rubbish.
£4
“Nobs”: I could hear a music-box
tinkling as clearly as if it were in the next
room. I thought hazily of a quaint
English film in which Australian actress
Diane Cilento appears, in some relation
to an old man, his antique-shop and
shelvefuls of music-boxes, as an angel
strumming a harp. But no golden-haired
angel. Then, it struck me: “Waltzing
Matilda” was never intended for angels
—yet it was the tune with which the ice-
cream man had disturbed my Sunday-
afternoon nap.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Zorok”: The discus-thrower selected
in Britain’s team for the Olympic Games
is M. Pharaoh. But Egypt’s own
Pharaohs are moving with the times ; the
new one in Cairo is a spanner-thrower.
“Wandana”: Newspaper reports of the
new copper roof for Australia’s oldest
Anglican church —St. Matthew’s, Windsor
—remind me that when St. James’s,
Sydney, was built in 1820 its spire was
covered with. sheets of copper marked
with broad-arrows at the comers of every
9 square-inches to prevent religious work-
men souveniring relics from the new
shrine.
>T«
/
“P.p.m.”: What with the state of our
roads, the behavior of our rivers and the
cleaning-up that has to be done (and, -
perhaps, the political situation) it’s consol-
ing to know that, from Eden-street, Lon-
don, there is published each month the
“Muck Shifter and'Public Works Digest”
for no more than 20-bob, sterling, per
annum.
“Amdee”: On his first trip to Sydney
a Danish seafaring friend of mine stood-
by the hatches and heard the wharfies
descending into the hold and loudly
demanding embarrassment-money for
handling white porcelain water-closets;
it confirmed all that he had been told to
expect of the Australian wharfie. Now
a New Australian, and aware of the
fine distinction between waterside jest and
earnest, he still thinks they’re ahrl Knuts.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tabba”: Migrants’ names are causing
less trouble than they used to. In
Bathurst (N.S.W.) I overheard one girl
say to another something like, “There
goes Svenchenka Nobrodoviskintch.”
“Oh, that’s who it is?” said the second
girl. “Any relation to Pattiska Nobro-
doviskintch?”
♦> »!♦ »!«
“Wusslean”: With reports of women
being molested at night around our
district it was no wonder the local girls
were arming themselves when they went
abroad after dusk, my garrulous neigh-
bor informed me. “I passed a couple of
’em down the street last night,” he said.
“Regular Amazons, they were, both
carrying murderous shillelaghs and look-
ing as if they were itching to have a
crack at someone. Pity help the poor
cove who says a word out of place to
them." On the night in question Mrs. W.
and a woman friend had gone along to
their gymnasium class, where they’re
being taught the graceful art of swing-
ing Indian clubs.
BEAUTIFUL BROTHERHOOD
"Asked by counsel for the Commissioner of
Taxation where he had got the inoney from to
field at two suburban meetings while an
undischarged bankrupt, a Sydney bookmaker
replied: ‘We bookies are all one—we help each
other.’ ”
Wherever wheels of commerce grind
It’s quite unlikely that you’d find,
When any bloke
Who’s nearly broke
And sliding to disaster,
And quick financial help implores
From some of his competitors
The dough they’d spring.
If anything
They’d help him plummet faster.
This cutthroat view likewise pervades
(Probably even more) the trades.
Plumbers no doubt
Go up the spout
At times; can’t make the distance;
Would others who plumb, seeing their
strife,
Weigh-in with wads ? Not on your life !
How different, though,
Are bookies, so
Generous with their assistance.
In brave old days of old, we’re tdld,
When stout Horatius knocked ’em cold
With mighty blows
Where Tiber flows
All Romans were as brothers.
They stood four-square; they divvied-in.
Our books are like that; all are kin.
Noble their way
With troubles; they
Share fully one another’s.
Temporarily embarrassed chaps
May bridge their wide financial gaps;
Fistfuls of “flags"
From bulging bags,
To help themselves invited.
If only such benignance they’d
Apply, now, to the odds they laid
How good they’d feel!
In this New Deal
Punters would be delighted.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


■. ' . ■ ‘ 4 > • \.l\ ■ ■ ■ • s ;; ; •
For speed, smoothness and pressurised comfort
TAA VISCOUNTS
Australia’s most popular airliners
Bookings : TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
I NPV3OI
PERSONAL ITEMS
“M.H.E.”: John McLeay, member for
Boothby (S.A.), is—like his predecessor
in the Federal Speaker’s chair, and close
friend, Archie Cameron —a man who
came up from the grassroots ; and he,
too, came into Federal politics via that
fine training-school, the South Australian
House of Assembly. He served as a
stretcher-bearer in War I with the 13th
Field Ambulance, won a Military Medal,
came home to found, with his brother
George, the firm of McLeay Brothers,
which they built into a great business,
was Mayor of Unley for some time as
well as M.H.A. for the Unley electorate,
and after War II was a very successful
Lord Major of Adelaide.
He has had a good deal of presidential
experience: president of Adelaide Legacy,
S.A. Tree Planters’ Association, S.A.
Playground Association and more
recently Retail Furniture Traders’
Association, A.A.M.C. and Old Foot-
ballers’ and Officials’ Association. Has
sat on the boards of a number of import-
ant companies, and is on the board of
the S.A. Metropolitan Transport Trust,
State Savings Bank, R.S.L. and Council
of Governors of Adelaide University.
He’s tall, athletic, rather rugged in
appearance, but genial and hospitable.
He was Archie Cameron’s own choice'
for a possible successor, a good deputy-
chairman of committees. “The only
thing against him,” Archie said, “is that
he plays cricket. Nobody can success-
fully play cricket in the Speaker’s chair,
because all the other players are umpires.”
At time of writing the dailies hadn’t
discovered another skeleton in his cup-
board: since 1949 he has been chairman
of the Committee of Privileges.
• •
Edgar Sydney Wolfenden, whose
recommendations on M.L.A.s’ screws
caused a bit of a ripple around Sydney
Harbor last Thursday, has been a char-
tered accountant and consulting actuary
in those parts for over 40 years.
Consulting actuaries are rather rare
ACTUARIAL ADVICE
birds; those who combine the calling
with a thriving accountancy business are
even less plentiful. This one, over the
years, through being called in to diagnose
and prescribe, must have acquired the
same sort of formidable knowledge of the
inner life of business that a physician has
of a human community. On the accoun-
tancy side, a list of men trained in his firm
sounds like a reading from. a business
Who’s Who —his “old boys” recently gave
him a dinner.
Apart from interests in private com-
panies he’s chairman of Masonite Indus-
tries and subsidiaries; of Reichhold
Chemical Industries (Aust.) and sub-
sidiaries ; has. bean top-man in such
concerns as Slazenger’s (“old boy”
Dave Blacklock now managing-
director) and E.M.I. (Aust.); is
remembered by eminent economists of
today as a terrifying examiner when he
lectured in accountancy at Sydney Univer-
sity. And, in the' counting-houses and
temples of finance, his name is mentioned
with the gravity that betokens outstand-
ing ability with money.
How to make it? An infallible recipe:
“Live within your income, invest what
you save, work hard, then —if you live a
long time —you’ll be sitting behind it.
But, mind, you’ll have to live a long
time.”
/ Question: Had Mr. Wolfenden started
from scratch? “Oh, yes. Started as a
junior clerk at A.M.P. Qualified. Started
on my own. Not much work for consult-
ing actuaries then.” Prospects today?
“Opportunities everywhere.” At time of
writing, one of the best of these seems to
be to get into Parliament.
• •
J. W. Cameron has retired from the
board and as general-manager of Anthony
Hordern’s, and, last Saturday, Frank
Munro took over as g.-m. The new
man is an Economics graduate who repre-
sented Sydney University at football and
rowing, joined the Second A.I.F. early,
served in the Middle East and New
Guinea, finishing as a major. He’s been
with the company 24 years.
• •
Ralph Hunt retired as chairman of the
Electricity Commission (Vic.) last Friday
after a strenuous career, especially in the
last two laps: raising labor as general-
superintendent at Yallourn during the
war years and raising capital for develop-
ment since he was appointed chairman in
1949. A year ago the Government asked
him if he would apply for an extension
of his term ; and the same day he replied,
“Thank you. No.” He is one of the
lucky fellows who have' planned their
retirement, mechanising his large garden
and tooling-up his workshop, where he
makes. bits and pieces for his cars, on a
somewhat lesser scale than, say, Repco.
Like his successor, Willis Connolly, he
was one of Monash’s young men at
Yallourn in the ’twenties ; he had been
earlier, too, and won the D.S.O. in France
in 1918 under Sir John’s command.
• •
Professor Henry W. Wells, whosb essay
on Australian ballads appears in this
issue, is curator of the dramatic museum
at Columbia University, New York. His
books include The American Way of
Poetry, Poet and Psychiatrist, Merrill
Moore, Poetic Imagery, World Literature
(with Arthur Christie), Piers the Plow-
man in Modern English, Elizabethan and
Jacobean Playwrights; and he is the
author of many articles on art and
literature, some dealing with the poetry
of Canada, New Zealand and Australia.
• •
Some Melburnians close to the Town
Hall dais aver Sir Frank Selleck is the
best Lord Mayor the city has had for 50
years, and his election for the third year,
covering the Olympic Games, was
unanimous. He lacks singularly the late
Tom old’s and the late Ray
Connelly’s flair for getting the right
attention to city questions and to favored
charities, but he has been a sound L.M.
and heads the special committee of the
City Council, of which citizens hear very
little, that set out a few years ago to
establish more-streamlined business-
methods in the Town Hall’s administra-
tion and has achieved remarkable results
and savings. He was one of the early
workers Legacy in Victoria, and- has
been one of the organisers of the R.S.L.’s
current Operation Gratitude ; he won the
M.C. in the first war. He’s an accountant
and has cinema interests ; one of them
is the Savoy. He had agreed earlier in
the year to stand down *to permit the
late Sir Frank Beaurepaire to lead the city
in the Olympic year, a gesture that has
now won his unanimous endorsement;
even —by thunder! —by both splinter
Labor-groups.
• •
This year’s Russell Grimwade Forestry
Prize goes to a returned Westralian
serviceman, W. H. Eastman, now with the
W.A.’s Forests Department. He’ll do a
post-graduate course at the Imperial
Forestry Institute, Oxford, and look at
European and other plots of bush.
• •
“Uramao”: Three young Tongans are
studying police-methods in New Zealand
with a view to hunting malefactors,
mostly pilferers, to their lairs in Tonga.
One is related by marriage to Queen
Salote and is entitled to the dignity of
“Noble.” Vuna Ahome, previously edu-
cated in Auckland, is now awaiting
entrance to * the new police-school at
Trentham. Hynie Tonga and George
Faletau, his cobbers, have been training
in police-work for some time. Before
departing for their island kingdom they
will try their hands in the N.Z. Police
Force.
• •
Melbourne friends, accountants, Taxa-
tion Department colleagues and repre-
sentatives of the Taxpayers’ Association —
John McKellar White, the Sydney
secretary, turned-up for one party —gave
Edward Gellie a rousing send-off when he
retired as Assistant Deputy Commissioner
of Taxation, central office. For all his
diplomas and associations, Ted Gellie has
remained very much a Collingwood boy.
He was born in Melbourne’s poorest
suburb, went to a primary school only,
but topped the telegraph-messengers’
examination, and then began to step up.
Much of the latest part of his career has
been spent in the department’s investigat-
ing branch ; he became Acting Deputy
Commissioner in 1951. Now living at
Kew —as close as he could get to Colling-
wood, —he claims to have been a Colling-
wood football-supporter for 60 years, at
least (60 years is as long as he can
remember). Collingwood played up for
the occasion, too, by getting into the
finals.
Geoff. Strickland, chief of the Division
of Plant Industry in South Australia, has
been Acting Director of Agriculture dur-
ing Dr. Callaghan’s trip overseas. Born
51 years ago in Ballarat (Vic.), where his
grandfather founded the family wool-
broking firm, Strickland got his Master’s
degree in Agricultural Science at Mel-
bourne University, was horticultural-
AGRIC. ADMINISTRATION
research officer with the Vic. department
for some years,' then became chief horti-
culturist in S.A. His present job is the
result of the amalgamation of agricultural,
horticultural and soil - conservation
branches of the S.A. Department of
Agriculture in 1954. On the scientific (as
opposed to the administrative) side he’s
best known for his discovery, in 1935, of
zinc-deficiency in citrus in the Murray
Irrigation Area. As chairman of the State
Irrigation Development Committee he
was responsible for the two new war-
service settlements —at Loxton (7000
acres) and Renmark (1200 acres). Also
chairman of the Potato Board and deputy-
chairman of the Dried Fruits Board, he
has represented Australia and S.A. at
agricultural conferences overseas. Hobby
—gardening!
• •
Home on a two-months visit —the first
since she went to London 31 years ago—
Westralian-born contralto Mrs. Basil
Parsons, better known to Australians as
Veronica Mansfield. One of the two
professors of singing in the Royal College
of Music, London, she lives in Knights-
bridge, opposite Sir Winston Churchill
and three doors from sculptor Jacob
Epstein.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 74, United States Ambassador
to Australia Douglas M. Moffat, who had been
in poor health for some months. His career was
summarised on this page earlier in the year.
In Perth, at 86, Harry Edward Bolton, Old
Digger, politician and businessman. From
1904 to 1917 he represented North and South
Fremantle in the Westralian Assembly. He was
R.S.L. State president in 1919 and 1920, and
again in 1921 and 1922; and was formerly
secretary of the Freemasons’ Club.
At Maitland (N.S.W.), at 60, Patrick Joseph
Cunningham, headmaster of Newcastle Central
Junior Technical School, and occasional
Bulletin story-writer. Born at Raymond
Terrace (N.5.W.),-he spent the major of
his life in the Maitland district and had a
detailed knowledge of its history; an authority,
among other things, on Les Darcy. During
War II he did Intelligence work.
At Kapunda (S.A.), Joseph Phillip O’Shea,
associated with the district’s local-government
for 53 years. His father became clerk of
Belvidere district-council in 1874; on his death
in 1901 he was succeeded by J.P., who, on the
merging of the two councils in 1932, carried
on as clerk of Kapunda district-council. Father
and son thus had exactly 80 years’ continuous
service.
In Perth, at 69, Edward Russell, former
British Regular and Old Digger, who served with
the Cheshire Regiment in England and India,
and with the 7th Bn., A.I.F. He was in khaki
again, with E.N.S.A., in War 11.


, m$ 'gx-r^
F Suites', ?ty£
' COV&R.?"
V •
(sUeUrj &(& } THE U)MT££ luuilß SEKViriG-
you' ONuy 8 y rne GP£*T£ST g£Lf-
COHT&OL. STOPPER HlMSeir fPOW (
/ x/
EXTRA SERVICE


ABORIGINALITIES
VTISITING a large S.A. winery and
* distillery, I noticed that only two of
the set of three huge hooks used on the
hydraulic lifts for loading the giant casks
were in action. I was then shown the
other, which considerately was idle. Ma
Wagtail had built her nest in it, and was
then in residence awaiting the happy
event. —“H.J.W.”
* * * H
“Motuku”: Years ago the country
between .Melbourne and Geelong carried
a good deal of onion-weed, but it was
kept in check by great flocks of cockatoos
from the You-Yangs and the Anakies.
The thirds, regarded as pests by farmers,
were blitzed, and thereafter the weed had
an open go, till now it would take millions
of cockatoos to cope with it. The weed
is both noxious and orinoxious to the
man on the land, also an irritant to visit-
ing golfers who get off the fairway on
infested links. The locals, of course, get
to know their onions and how not to
slice them.
* # * «
“Myall”: Doggers on Evesham station,
between Winton and Longreach (C.Q.),
recently destroyed two almost tailless,
dingoes, and it was thought they had lost
their tails in fights when pups. Visiting
the Burleigh Heads sanctuary, the owner
of the station mentioned the bobtails, and
curator David Fleay showed him a
warrigal identical with the two killed on
his property. This one had been ca-ughl
as a pup by an airlines pilot near the
S.A. border. It had later been mated
with a dingo bitch, which produced t
litter of six healthy pups, four of them
bobtailed like the father. This seems
to prove that the trait is inherited, but
I find no mention of anything of the
sort in natural-history books. Perhaps
some bushman can throw light on the
subject.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: The burly Fijian ordered a
load of short wood. His boss reminded
him that the long wood was cheaper.
“I know, turanga,” he said, “but my wife
is pregnant, and it is easier for her to
chop the short wood.”
* * * *
“P.D.”: Mrs. Beeton is famous for
having begun her recipes with such
sentences as “First catch your hare,”
or “Take one dozen eggs.” Australia’s
“How long have you been out of quarantine?”
Dame Mary Gilmore, when cooking-
editress of the “Worker,” worked on the
same grand style. Recalled by Leslie
Haylen, M.H.R., at Dame Mary’s recent
birthday-party was a recipe of hers which
began: “Take a moderate - sized
sheep...
* * * *
“C. Coral”: I wonder whether Baexis,
the huge supernatural “spirit-dog,” still-
pays .his nocturnal visits to Darnley
Island (Torres Strait), putting the wind
up the villagers? Described to me as being
as large as a cow, spotted biack arid white,
with one side of the face white and the
other black, he was looked upon, as a
“devil,” or spirit, calling at or before
death for the souls of the departed. My
old friend Spia, the native police-sergeant,
assured me he’d seen Baexis on two
occasions—once as the ghostly creature
passed him, and another time when a
woman at Stephens Island died. Spia
happened to be one of three men watch-
ing by the door of the house where the
woman lay. At midnight the village dogs
began to bark, and then Baexis came up
to the door, turned and looked seawards
towards Boigu, the isle of the dead. The
watchers beheld him in fear and
trembling, until he trotted off along the
beach. Next morning his big tracks were
visible in the sand. A black dog, by the
way, was in olden days dreaded by Euro-
pean people as a malevolent fiend.
* * •* *
“Fakt”: Young Ted, the new hand, was
given the job of scraping the pig after Dad
had killed it. He was told to use very
hot water, but, impatient, he used the
water before it had reached the required
temperature. Dad went crook, and said
he’d have to get the bristles all off as best
he could. He did, too. Soaped Dennis
liberally all over with a stick of perfumed
soap, then went over every inch of him
with a safety-razor!
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Many good judges
consider the pied-butcher-bird the most
gifted flautist of the family, which is
surely saying something. Related to the
magpie, and like a sawn-off one in.
appearance, the pied-butcher has a wide
range, but is nowhere numerous. How-
ever, so emphatic is its coloration, and
so beautiful its song, that wherever it
is it will be both seen and heard. Unlike
the maggie, the pied melodist isn't
socially-minded, but (also unlike its
relative) the cock-bird makes an excellent
husband. Maybe birds which don’t flock
are less prone to domestic infidelity.
* * * *
“Bal”: The old bloke had his camp
in the foothills of the ranges, and he was
full of complaints about it—the climate
was “crook,” it never stopped blowing,
he had no view, it was lousy all round.
“Well, why don’t you shift?” we asked
him. “Shift! ” he gritted. “Where the hell
to? If I go down on the plains I’m in
me missus’s territory an’ I’d get what for.
I can’t go any higher because of me
blasted asthma. So I’ve just got to damn’
well stop here 4”
** * # *
“Half-Dirty”: Bartering has been
revived by some local toilers who cut
their own firewood from Victoria’s State
forests. A royalty of Is. 6d. per ton, paid
to the warden, is the only cash outlay,
and the average man fells selected trees
into 20 tons of 6ft. billets. By co-
operative arrangement with the local
woodie, the billets are sawn into Ift.-
blocks ; two-thirds of the wood is carted
to the toiler’s yard, and the woodie keeps
the remaining third. Consequently the
toiler gets a year’s supply of cut-up wood
for 30-bob plus expended labor, and the
woodie gets a stock of saleable wood ;
thus overcoming the problem of the
shortage of hired wood-cutters.
* * * *
“J.D.W.”: I’ve vivid recollections as
a kid of the bush-remedy for chilblains —
“grasping the nettle danger” and stinging
the inflammation away. Now I’ve struck
a bloke who claims the same properties
for holly: let it draw blood by being
struck across the itchy area and the trick’s
done. Reckons he was lammed across
the soles of his feet with holly *4O years
ago and hasn’t had a chilblain since.
Any medical basis?
* * * *
“Kelms”: Wouldn’t; say the pot-
hunting New Australians who go for
butcher-bird and kookaburra have such
strange tastes, however
much I condemn their
uncivilised practices. I’ve
never eaten either bird, but
an old prospector who’d
weathered many a hard stage
told me the only native bird
he’d found unpalatable was
the crow, or raven ; and the
blacks will even eat them at
a pinch. I’d be inclined to
exclude some of the hawks
from the menu, but on
account of toughness rather
than taste. Can’t .see why
any other bird wouldn’t be
good eating—if you’d ban'
a bird from the table
because of what it eats you’d
go without duck, which will
eat anything—and that’s a
tragedy for our birdlife.
Many migrants have an urge to kill
anything that’s free, and if it’s edible
there’s a double-incentive —just as the
Italian clearing-gangs of the depression-
days denuded whole districts in W.A. of
bird-life, even stewing the willy-wagtail.
Thought that type of savagery had passed,
until the other day when I caught some
N.A.s blazing away at a dotterel that
had decided to winter with us. Feathers
and all, it wouldn’t have weighed an
ounce.
* • * *
“Telepho”: Here in Monash—South
Aus. River Murray soldier-settlement of
World War I—the foundation-stone of
the community-hall reads: —
This stone was laid by the Premier The
Hon. T. Playford—2nd September, 1939.
Stone presented by Prospect (S.A.) Sub-
branch tR.S.S.I.L.A.
The last words are true, but the main
statement is 160 miles off. The Premier
was in the district and was going to
declare the stone “well and truly laid”
when a new war demanded his presence in
Adelaide. Mr. W. McGillivray, the local
M.P., did the job in his inimitable Scots
way.
***.♦.
“W.P.T.”: If we are to have great
hotels all over Australia to cater for
tourists, managements could do worse
than inquire about the Australian dishes
that were served regularly at some of our
little-known hotels many years ago. A
hotel at Tooleybuc, on the Murray, was
( famous fob its kangaroo-tail soup. Paddle-
i steamers called there to allow their
passengers to enjoy this Australian dish.
A Dubbo (N.S.W.) pub was noted for its
quandong-pie, while an outback-Queens-
land pub always had prickly-pear pie on
the menu. Other country pubs served
pigeon-pie, and it was really delicious.
• * * *
“Nidus”: It’s remarkable how a loud
and continuous noise can paralyse the
brain-centres and render concentration
impossible. The workshop-foreman and
two skilled mechanics were adjusting the
tractor-engine; grouped around the
carburettor-side, they were trying to get
an even beat in its rhythm. Although I’m
no mechanic, 30 years of driving cars of
various makes has given me a keen hear-
ing for mechanical defects. In the
distance the uneven rhythm indicated a
continuous misfire on one cylinder. Going
over to the job, I could see a spark-plug
lead hanging off its plug. Pointed out
and put back, it brought the engine to
life with a new note —humiliating for
three competent mechanics who were too
close to the source of the sound to make
an accurate diagnosis.
* * * *
THE Sultan of Sulu voyaged annually
from Jolo, in the South Philippines,
to collect, by an 80-year-old agreement,
5000 Straits dollars from the chartered
company of British North Borneo. He
made it a pleasant junket, on a passenger-
steamer, with a small retinue of several
wives, guards and servants. Upon arrival
his accommodation comprised the four
east-wing suites in the Sandakan Hotel.
In the year of this story, on Saturday
mbrning, by the Singapore steamer,
arrived a John Little representative, pink-
complexioned, new ; just six weeks from
Tilbury. He spent his morning industri-
ously booking orders from individual
Europeans for haberdashery, sports-
equipment, etc., and after a solitary hotel
tiffin, bored to tears and not knowing a
single soul, was gazing idly out the rear
window of his suite in the west wing.
His susceptibility . was touched by
bright glances from a saronged,beauty at
an east-wing window. No experienced
counsellor had had time yet to advise
this innocent Englishman that a coy look
from a Suluk sylph is not as easy to
translate as a glad-eye at Blackpool; he
was, of course, the only Briton in
Sandakan unaware that the Sultan and
entourage were in town, and had no idea
that he was exchanging ogles with the
prize bloom of the harem.
The urge to make closer acquaintance
emboldened him to step over the back
balustrade and catwalk along, the gutter-
ing towards her. He had just swung one
leg over the balustrade of her room when
she screamed.
Within seconds, two swashbuckling
guards were up the back-stairs and, with
drawn parangs, were frogmarching the
flabbergasted romantic to the police-
station. The Resident was called from
his golf to assuage the outraged feelings
of the Sultan and doubtless outline
grimly how the offender would be trans-
ported, dismissed and punished. In fact,
Romeo left on the Monday steamer, and
we saw him not again.
Sevenejlms.
THE WOMPUS BIRD
The wompus bird is a wondrous bird
Which talks like you and 1;
Has a purple crest and builds its nest
With burrs and bindi-eye ;
Grows four feet long and three feet wide
And nearly six feet tall —
And the parson’s-nose of the wompus
bird
Is the sweetest meat of all.
Old Murphy sought the wompus bird
From Nullagine to Cue ;
It led him back to Yannarie,
Then down to Mingenew.
He chased it up to Marble Bar,
Then westward to Mount Wall,
For the parson’s-nose of the wompus bird
Is the sweetest meat of all.
When Murphy caught the wompus bird,
Not far from Youanmi,
They fought a desperate, gasping fight.
The wompus bird and he,
Till Murphy shrieked and broke away
To flee the fearsome brawl —
Though the parson’s-nose of the wompus
bird
Is the sweetest meat of all.
As Murphy fled, that wompus bird
Clish-clashed its mighty beak,
It leapt and streaked on Murphy’s track
And downed him with a shriek.
The bird stood up and sent aloft
Its wild, triumphant call—
“ The parson’s-nose of a prospector
Is the sweetest meat of all.’’
N.S.W.
OLIVER FILTER.


CTRUCK a white cockatoo—as dinky-
di an Aussie as ever loosed an oath —
magging in the native tongue off his
Italian market-gardener owner. After
that I’ll not be surprised to see a koala
chewing spaghetti.—“W.P.T.”
* * ' * *
“Boyap”: Jim couldn’t keep his geese
out of the oat-paddock until he studied
their way of getting-through a fence. The
leading gander would stick its neck
between the two lowest wires, then, press-
ing one foot on the bottom wire, squeeze
through, and the gaggle would follow.
So Jim rigged-up a battery and a Model-
T coil to the bottom wire and awaited
results. That gander was well wedged in,
insulated by his feathers, when he put his
foot on, and he shot-through like a rocket.
The rest did the same. It took Jim a
couple of hours to muster and drove them
the long way round to the gate, for the
wily birds shied-off whenever they came
within cooee of the fence. But now
there’s never a quack or a honk from the
oat-paddock.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Curious to read of a
butcher without a sense of humor (B.
8/8/’56). Most I’ve encountered have
at least tried to be funny. True, most of
their jokes were cornier than their silver-
side: “Have you any brains, Butcher?”
“If I had, lady, I wouldn’t be a butcher.”
Or: “Have you a leg?” “Got two —
neither of ’em much good.” And, “Cat’s
meat, son? Right. Want to eat it here or
take it home first?” The stock reply to a
request for dripping: “Yes, but it’s a bit
fat.” One butcher of my youth always
spoke tenderly of his mutton, declaring
either that it was a piece of Mary’s little
lamb, or that it had been reared on
Nestle’s milk and piano-keys. And then
there was Old Ned, whose sad, under-
“You like-a Tony cook it some more, yes?”
taker’s dial would never twitch as he
solemnly asked any flapper who desired
dog’s meat: “Is it a cattledog or a sheep-
dog?” The girl invariably looked
bewildered. “It’s so difficult,” he’d com-
plain as he gathered-up scraps. “Y’ see,
a sheepdog should have mutton, but a
cattledog needs beef.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Inland from the U.S.
Pacific coast they log the yellow-pine
forests at a rate that leaves the Oregon
and redwood operators as also-rans.
They do it by using a high-wheel jinker
behind a Caterpillar, and the usual daily
tally of this combination is 100,000 ft.
delivered to rail-crane. The pole of the
jinker—2sft. of 9in. x 9in. that snugs into
the “Cat’s” gooseneck—has to be tough.
And it is—it’s N.S.W. ironbark.
* * * *
“Jon Lyn”: The effort of building
N.S.W.’s first branch-railway 8| miles
in nine months (B. l/8/’56) was in keep-
ing with the times. The eight-mile road
from Sydney to South Head was built
in 1811 by 21 soldiers of the 73rd Regi-
ment in 10 weeks. And what about
William Cox’s feat of building a road
over the mountains from Penrith to
Bathurst, a distance of miles, in a
few days more than six months? He had
only 30 convicts on the job. .
* * . * *
“Sappers”: The early abos. never
called Melbourne’s stream either Yarra
Yarra or Yanna Yanna (B. 1/ 8 / ’56).
To the local tribes it was Bay-ray-rung.
The native who was with the explorers
was a Corio-district man, and when he
was asked the name they were looking
at the rapids upstream from Johnston-
street Bridge (Collingwood). He naturally
replied Yarra Yarra, or perhaps Yanna
Yanna, but only referred to the fast-
flowing water.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: If “Bogaduck” (B.
18/7/’56) came to Queensland’s “Gold
Coast” we could show him ants that can
bore into green trees. About long,
they infest this sandy country and can
hack their way through any sort of
timber, living or dead. , Their speciality
is tunnelling under, in and through the
roots of native trees and garden-shrubs
and digging into logs on the ground ;
they even undermine concrete floors and
paths, carrying out the spoil from the
tunnels to make little sand-ridges along
the edges, and causing the concrete to sub-
side and crack. They are as destructive
as termites.
* * * *
“M’Lou”: The bull-roarer, or churinga,
still used in aboriginal ceremonies, is held
to be the voice of the god Daramulum.
Churingas, however, were not peculiar to
the Australian abo. The Cro-Magnon
peoples of prehistoric Europe used them
in their cave-ceremonials. One French
museum possesses a fine specimen: a
spatulate ivory point ornamented with
incised fish and designs. To the decadent
transitional period between the Old and
New Stone Ages belong the Azilian
pebbles, on which simple geometric
designs were painted with red-ochre.
These, found in many parts of Europe, are
also believed to be churingas.
“Motuku”: Three pied-butcher-birds
sat in a tree by the veranda and called,
“Quick, quick, quick!” When I opened
the glass-doors they flew straight in and
started a treasure-hunt. I gave them
some cheese-crumbs, which they ate,
but that was not what they were looking
for, and the search went on. Finally one
of them found the treasure —a mouse
caught by the tail in a rat-trap on a
table in the corner. Either they had heard
it squeaking or they must have a very
keen sense of smell.
“Better use the REGULATION safety-belt when We're a bit higher, Paddy."
“H.V.C.”: The fame of Melbourne’s
pub-painting “Chloe” may be rivalled by
a 25ft. x sft. mural in the bar of the
Palace Hotel, Mackay (Q.); the repute
of this mural is beginning to spread
through the North. Oils-on-canvas,
painted from historic photographs by
Claude Buchanan, it has sugar as its cen-
tral theme —which sweetens memories of
Captain John Mackay, who was here in
1860; the unloading of stores in 1868
from the small ship Amy Robsart,
tethered to a Leichhardt tree still standing
on the bank of the Pioneer River; John
Spiller, who grew the first sugarcane in the
Mackay district and made the first sugar ;
and the Alexandra” mill, the district’s first
sugarmill. Across the length of the
mural runs transport, from bullock-
wagons to the Sunlander; and local
identities like Madame Melba, who in
1902 was married to an engineer named
Armstrong at the Marian sugarmill, For-
gan Smith, late Premier of Queensland,
and Charles Bagley, of Mackay Harbor
fame, are all put in proper perspective.
You can absorb the city’s history in two
beers, but they say that after sik beers,
in the right company, it gets even more
interesting.
* * * *
“C.L.”: Andrew Crombie, old-time
W.Q. bushman, tells the story of the
- Scottish manager of a far-western station
who constantly interlarded his conversa-
tion with “D’ye see, y’see?” He was
unpopular with swagmen because of his
abrupt manner and his tightness over
rations. Riding up to his woolshed when
shearing was in full swing, he read this
message chalked on the big entrance-
doors to the woolstore: “D’ye see, y’ see,
you blankard, you should feed the blanky
travellers, y’ see, or they will burn your
blanky woolshed, d’ ye see?” Scotty
absorbed it in silence, harnessed four
good buggy-horses, and, taking a black-
boy with him to lead a spare pair, started
off for the nearest town, 90 miles away.
Borrowing another change of horses
towards the end of his journey, he did the
trip in record time, and astonished all
hands by returning some days before he
was expected. Pulling-up at the wool-
shed, he jumped out of his buggy and
chalked this under the other message:
“Burn it and be damned to you, you
blankard, d’ ye see, y’ see! It’s insured,
d’ ye see, y’ see, for more than it’s worth,
so go your blanky hardest!”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: If you look carefully enough
along the bank of the Parramatta river
at Newington you can find evidence of the
salt-works established there nearly 120
years ago by John Blaxland. Soon after
taking up land at what is now the State
Hospital and Home for Women at
Newington, Blaxland constructed a series
of ponds along the river, water from the
river being drained into them and allowed
to evaporate. The heavy salt-solution
that remained was then pumped into vats
and boiled. In 1838 over 1000 tons of
salt was produced at these Newington
salt-works, and manufacture of salt at
Newington continued until the ’eighties.
* * * r *
“Moorapi”: Although some of its
members are on the land, Ararat (Vic.)
Water Trust, faced with the job of
fencing-in a reservoir, couldn’t decide
how high a rabbit can jump. A 3ft. fence
would cost £50, and a 1ft. fence £20;
for economy reasons the latter was
chosen. My bush observations seem to
point to bunny having no trouble in
dealing with that obstacle—provided the
surrounding ground is not too steep for
a take-off.
* i * * *
THE term “commensalism,” which
“Bogaduek” (B. 18/7/’56) applies to
the occupation by ants of' the deserted
burrows of other insects or their larvae,
should be applied only to the “living
together in close association, of organisms
of different kinds that share their meals”
(Lat. con, together ; mensa, a table).
There are many widely-varying
examples of more-or-less close associa-
tions of animals with animals, animals
with plants and plants with plants: e.g.,
the rather loose association of pilot-fish
and sucker-fish with sharks, anemone-
fish with sea-anemones, man-o’-war-fish
with the stinging “blue-bottles” and
beche-de-mer-fish with sea-slugs (the slim
little fish taking cover in the rear end of
the sea-slug’s gut, slipping in tail-first),
and many closer and more permanent
associations.
There are also various forms of
“inquilinity” (from Lat. inquilinus, a
lodger), in which one organism lives in an
abode properly belonging to, and
occupied by, another, like the pea-crab
in a pipi-shell, or the sea-anemone on the
carapace of a crab, living commensally.
Closer still is the connection of organ-
isms united for life and each dependent
on the other in its physiological activities,
such as the giant-clam and the colonies of
bacteria that live in its frilled mantle;
certain species of ants and their aphid
“cows,” and others with their subter-
ranean fungi-farms ; as well as the fungi
and algae that together form lichens. These
interdependent associations are forms of
“symbiosis” —a living together.
All of these associations differ widely,
of course, from “parasitism,” in which
the uninvited guest feeds, not with, but
on its host. Ants living in the burrows ot
insect-larvae, a hermit-crab in the shell of
a dead mollusc, a goanna at home m a
pillaged kingfisher’s-nest in a termite-
mound, a black-snake in a bee-eater s
burrow, a bumble-bee rearing its brood
in a deserted mouse-hole and a carpet-
snake holed-up in a rabbit-warren are
not inquiline, symbiotic or commensal,
they are simply “squatters.”
MOTOKU.
BARRINGTON TOPS
By horse it takes a half-a-day,
By foot a half-aiweek,
To climb the slopes from Salisbury Plains
To get to Carey’s Peak,
And some who’ve made the journey there
Proclaim that playing gnu
In racing to the mountain top
Is worth it for the view ;
But I've been up to Carey’s Peak
On horse and Shanks’s pony,
And battled leech and snake and sleet,
And doubt their testimony.
For every time, the mountain-top
Has wrapped itself in mist
And, frozen and exhausted, l
Have squatted full of wist
And wondered why one perseveres,
For all that I have seen
Arc scribblings on the lookout walls
Where other gnus have been.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


Your OWN Grain Storage!
LYSAGHT a
Grain Silos
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
mmmtm
mmm
Sis*!?
m
w5/^w?Www>
*
totted
w#m
spp;
s*S!ilf
* '
«•
rr
AND AUGERS
SILOS
ft Heavy gauge galvanized
sheets
| Easily erected—permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
ft Steel earth rings and load-
ing platforms available as
extras if required
ft Prompt delivery
AUGERS
l Designed to fill and empty
Lysaght Silos
» Segmented construction for
easy assembly and versatility
l Unique vertical filling avoids
congestion
» Vertical sets complete with
wall brackets, chute tubes,
eto.
AUGERS. Priced as low
as £lll. Popular type for
standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided),
£l3B.
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
200 Bushel Silo £47
250 „ „ (Elevated) £93
500 „ „ £79
1.000 h „ £136
2.000 „ „ £2OB
2,000 „ „ (Squat) £2OB
3.000 „ „ £271
3.500 „ „ £294
4.500 „ „ £447
8.500 „ £709
Write for further information and Agents' Names to Dept. No. B,
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
SSX/5S
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns. ''
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
"THE LITTLE" AND "THE BIG"
TT7ELL, the “Little Budget” of
’ ’ March last turned out to be
the Budget master-plan for 1956-
.57. The tax-increases which were
introduced then for the
remainder of 1955-56 are con-
tinued in the Budget for 1956-
57, and, apart from the rise of
id. in minimum postage rates,
und some increases in telephone,
telegram and radio - licence
charges, as well as the
levy of £7 excise on each
cathode-ray tube in a TV-
set (bound to come, like excise
on radio-valves), there were no
increases in taxation, or what
might be termed disguised taxa-
tion, in the Budget brought down
by the Treasurer on August 30.
On the other hand, except for
some minor concessipns, no taxa-
tion relief has been granted.
None was really expected, except
that economic‘realists hoped for
some modification of company-
tax anomalies, especially with
relation to depreciation allow-
ances and the like. One of the
worst, features of the March
“Little Budget” was that it made
the double-taxation injustice
with regard to companies even
worse than it had been by
increasing the flat-rate tax by a
shilling (to Bs. in the £).
However, political nervousness
continues to conflict with
economic realism at Canberra,
and this is understandable when
one considers the nature of the
Opposition’s attitude to any
national economic problem,
especially the attitude of that
outstanding member who in the
past sought the advice of
Comrade Molotov on another
matter.
Except for Customs revenue,
the Government expects most
taxation to bring in more to the
Treasury in 1956-57. Total
revenue at £1230 million is
expected to be £99 million
higher. Outgo at £ll2l million
would be'up £52 million, mainly
because of an increase of £11.7
million in social-security charges
(£226.6 million) and a lift of £23
million in payments to the States
million). Commonwealth
capital works and services (all
paid for out of revenue) are
expected to be £7.8 million
higher at £109.7 million. That is
including capital expenditure 'of
the P.M.G., and outlay on
television.
Sales-tax revenue is anticipated
to be £2O million higher at £l3O
million, but in respect of motor-
cars there is expected to be a
fall.
An anticipated Budget surplus
of £108.5 million is earmarked
to make-up deficiencies in
borrowing for; State public
works. To the extent that the
works are necessary and
economically constructed, this
method of finance overcomes a
resort to Treasury-bill borrow-
ing that would otherwise be
inevitable.
Sir Arthur Fadden, in pre-
senting his Budget, trod very
warily around the basic causes
of our economic disequilibrium,
chief of which is inadequate pro-
ductivity. Treading warily
around anything seems to be
foreign to the nature of the
Treasurer, but in this case he has
followed Cabinet practice and
avoided any head-on clash with
doctrinaire and spendthrift State
Governments and any intrusion
into the province of the arbitra-
tion courts. The closest he came
to making a real jab at the tender
spot in our very political
economy was when he skid, as
the last words of his speech:
“Inflation is a pervasive thing.
It draws upon many sources and
is helped along by a multitude of
actions on the part of individuals
and groups. This has to be more
widely recognised, and there
must be a common will to resist
inflation and do the things
necessary to avert it —to produce
more, to save more, to look for
ways of reducing costs and of
economising in resources what-
ever the line of activity may be.
Given such an effort by the
whole community, I have no
doubt that inflation can be
mastered and our economic and
social life freed from the disloca-
tions and injustices it entails.”
This parting remark by the
Treasurer ties in well enough
with an earlier statement on
Budget-night, when he said:
“The fact is that we cannot
afford a reasonably satisfactory
flow of imports unless and until
our export earnings rise much
higher. We need an export
income more like £lOOO million
a year than £BOO million. We
also need a steady flow of capital
on both public and private
account.”
As The Bulletin has pointed
out for several years past, greater
productivity at lower cost, enabl-
ing a larger and more competi-
tive export surplus to be
marketed overseas, would not
only provide us with more
current overseas earnings; it
would also attract much more
overseas capital.
Shares and the Budget
TTS7ITH the new season’s wool-
sales opening at a higher
level, thus continuing the firming
trend evident towards the close of
the 1955-56 season’s offerings,
and with no further taxation
imposts in the Federal Budget,
the sharemarket took a brighter
view of things towards the end
of last week, and sent B.H.P.
shares, in particular, jumping
to 465. 9d. prior to the announce-
ment of a one-for-five issue at
par to be made early in 1957.
Even N.S.W. breweries and
banks, in spite of the heavier
State land-tax introduced by the
State Budget, improved.
Another stock to firm notice-
ably, ex div., was A.C.I.
McPherson’s has been notching
new records as well, prior to its
new issue. Sustained buying has
sent F. J. Walker shares to
285., compared with 225. a
weeks ago. There are “take-
over” rumors behind this buying,
but the furphies seem to be
entirely without foundation.
Nevertheless it is a good stock on
its own merits.
Bradford Cotton Mills con-
tinues its meritorious perform-
ance, paying 12| p.c. again in
spite of the drag of the Burling-
ton investment. The scrip has
beep in demand around 425.
A drop of Is. 6d. (to 225. 9d.)
in General Industries ord. shares
followed public controversy over
Admiral-brand TV-components.
For the sharemarket as a
whole, the position is mixed.
Though higher vfpol-prices are
encouraging, the costs position
is not, and those industries which
cannot, because of competition
or credit-restriction, pass-on
increased wages, etc., the outlook
is little, if any, brighter than it
was before.
Minster, Ltd.
A/fINSTER, LTD., has done
-f’-l well for its shareholders
during the past difficult year. Net
profit of £192,134 was £5173
better, and the 15 p.c. div. was
majntaiped, calling for £86,423,
compared with £80,344 for
1954-55.
During the latter half of the
term the co. acquired the shares
of Sydney Cotton Mills, Ltd.,
and later sold the plant to Davies,
Coop.
The co. controls the Rayon
(Australia) Processing Co. Pty.,
Ltd., responsible for the suede
finish on this year’s Minster
balance-sheet. Also the White-
head Chemical Co.
/
But the chief subsidiary is
Westminster Carpets, Ltd., turn-
ing-out rubber-based carpet for
the motor-car industry and for
household requirements. Last
year’s profit was earned from
one plant-unit. Another unit is
being added, and should be
operating this year ; so far some-
thing like £250,000 has been
spent on it without asking
shareholders for a penny more
capital. The outlay has been
met almost entirely from
ploughed-back profits.
The three-for-four bonus-issue
made since the close of accounts
will carry Minster’s paid capital
up to £1,079,197, on which a
maintained 15 p.c. div. would
’call for £161,880, or about
£30,000 less than was earned last
year on one plant-unit. Dupli-
cation of the plant should mean
a considerable increase in turn-
over, as, up till now, demand
has been much in excess of
supply, especially for domestic
carpet.
At 245., ex bonus, the 10s.
shares would yield 6.2 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div.
The Deepest Oil Well
[From L. Owen]
'THE deepest hole in the earth
ever drilled has broken two
records. First of all, it has
reached a total depth of 22,570 ft.
—which is probably easier to
visualise when written 4} miles,
plus 130 ft. - This betters the
previous record by 1088 ft.
Secondly, the well flowed from
a zone at 21,443-21,465 ft., which
beats the previous record for
production depth by 3570 ft. The
initial test yielded 472 barrels of
oil a day from two oil-horizons
between 21,419 ft. and 21,465 ft.,
but the pressure declined slowly
and the casing was reperforated
to restrict the production to
the lower zone. The latest
information is that the
21,443ft./465ft. zone is flowing
at 207 barrels of crude and
244,000 cub. ft. of gas a day
through a 10/64in. choke. The
oil brought up with it is less than
one per cent, of sludge and water.
A Schlumberger electric log
was run for the total depth,
without incident, in 2\ hours.
The well is a “wildcat,” three
miles east of the nearest pro-
ducer, and is located 35 miles
south of New Orleans (U.S.A.)
in the Lake Washington district.
Pressures in excess of 20,0001 b.
per sq. in. and temperatures up
.to 350 degrees Fahrenheit were
recorded during operations.
These conditions required the use
of special steel drill-pipe with a
tensile strength of 50 tons per
sq. in.
Drilling costs are estimated at
$2,425,000 (£1,078,000), of which
over $750,000 was expended on
mud-mixes with weights up to
18.51 b. per U.S. gallon.
Drilling-time was 300 days,
and the geological age of the
pay-sand is Miocene.
Kurnell (N.S.W.) Refinery
TNSTEAD of spending money
on a formal opening cere-
mony of Kurnell refinery (Syd-
ney), the operating co., Aus-
tralian Oil Refining Pty., Ltd.,
has presented a modern X-ray
pl£nt to the Sutherland Shire
District Hospital.
Mr. Milton Lipp, managing-
director of Kurnell refinery, told
Premier Cahill during his visit
that by the end of this year an
average of about one oil-tanker
each day would enter Botany
Bay, and in 1957 super-tankers
of up to 30,000 tons would be
bringing crude oil to Kurnell.
To cope with this the refinery
planned to expand its crude
tankage capacity, increase its
production from 770,000 gallons
of crude oil a day to 1,050,000
gallons a day, • and spend
£lBO,OOO to improve the berth-
ing facilities of the wharf for the
super-tankers.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.'
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
KEROSENE
TILLEY
Reqcl
PRESSUR
lamps
jHirn
brighter
longer!
100% BRITISH.
SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH
BURNS 12 HOURS ON l± PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1097 MT. ALEXANDER RD., ESSENDON. VICTORIA.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
tXttj
•—a series of contributions on
questions of the hour by leading t
international aviation personalities.
LORD DOUGLAS OF KIRTLESIDE
G.C.8., M.C., D.F.C.
—Chairman ofBEA and President-Elect of lATA.
A pioneer airline Captain (1919) and Marshal
of the R.A.F., makes this contribution 0n...
V 5
M
A
*
v*
)//S.
w.
//
Vf.
V,
/
f»y
,i'S
••V‘* J/ SC.
y"
I AT A
In an age bemused by a mass of initials —
UNO, NATO, OEEG, BEA, BO AC,
TWA, ICAO —the public must be for-
given for failing to become excited by
lATA. Yet the International Air Trans-
port Association is in reality a body of
immense interest, and a stirring example
of practical international co-operation.
It is a free association of over seventy
leading airlines of the world.
lATA came into its own after the second
world war, and in the last ten years its
member airlines —including BOAC and
BEA, of course —have made remarkable
progress, i They are carrying 23 times as
many passengers, 70 times as much cargo
and 13 times as much mail as they did in
1946. Nearly 70 million people travelled
on the air routes of the world last''year,
and 21 million of them passed through
London Airport.
lATA stands for joint planning and
joint action, the ordered compromise that
results from agreement reached round the
council table, the rationalisation of air
transport everywhere to the highest stan-
dards of safety and service.
Man’s progress in the air is an exciting
affair, naturally associated with youth and
adventure. It is now more than that an
essential part of life and commerce, draw-
ing people closer together in terms of space,
time and understanding., lAT A plays a
leading part in this, and as President-
Elect I am happy to declare my faith in its
future service to the peoples of the world.
AVIATION
m
SERVICE^
serves aviation W3il
The BP Aviation Service is operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
(in association with
. The British Petroleum Compary Limited) i/56
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
the N.Z. Budget
forecast overseas borrow-
ing to the extent of only about
£5 million during the current
year, Maoriland may soon have
to consider a more serious
approach to world money-
markets.
The Commissioner of Works,
Mr. F. M. Hanson, has estimated
that, with the population increas-
ing at the present rate of about
2\ per cent, a year, £4OO million
must be spent in the next five
years to provide for essential
services and development works.
This is too much for a small
country to raise from current
revenue and internal borrowing.
There is a lot to be said for
the suggestion of the Minister
of Industries and Commerce, Mr.
Halstead, that £lOO million
should be borrowed overseas at
the rate of £2O million a year
for five years.
Prudently used, overseas capi-
tal could increase production suf-
ficiently to meet both interest
and principal on loans. That
has been done in the past and
there is no reason why it
shouldn’t be done again.
Twenty years ago, 36 per cent,
of Maoriland’s public debt was
domiciled overseas; today the
amount is only 14 per cent. In
the last 15 years interest-charges
on overseas public debt have
been reduced from 9.5 p.c. to 1.1
p.c. of the value of exports.
World money-markets have
tightened recently. Loans are
dearer and harder to obtain. The
problem would be simplified if
Maoriland joined the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund and the
International Bank of Recon-
struction and Development.
Joining the World Bank
The recent Monetary Commis-
sion expressed the firm opinion
that arguments in favor of join-
ing the Fund and Bank heavily
outweigh objections, and recom-
mended that membership of both
organisations should be sought.
The question will no doubt be
discussed again during the
present session of Parliament,
when the commission’s report is
under consideration. However,
though the Government would
like to join, it is considered un-
likely to force the issue at present
as several of its own members
share Labor’s strong opposition
to the proposal.
The Reserve Bank, the
Treasury and the Associated
Chambers of Commerce have all
independently advocated joining.
With overseas reserves at a
comparatively low level and with
the prospect of some decline in
export prices, Maoriland could
face the future much more
securely if it had access to short-
term credits, which, it appears,
only the International Monetary
Fund can provide. In a price-
recession such credits might be
highly desirable to maintain im-
ports at an adequate level.
The Fund would give New
Zealand access to additional
monetary reserves in sterling and
non-sterling currencies of at least
£lB million over a four-year
period, with the likelihood of
greater or more rapid assistance
in special circumstances.
Loss of Sovereignty?
Of even greater importance is
the possibility of borrowing from
the Bank for development pur-
poses. But, in order to obtain
assistance from the Bank, it is
necessary first to become a
member of the Fund.
Main objection to joining the
Fund seems to be that there
Would be some loss of
sovereignty, in that members are
required to consult the Fund
before altering their exchange-
rates. The Monetary Commis-
sion, however, said that this was
not a soundly-based argument
against joining.
It pointed out that, for
changes up to 10 p.c. in total,
the Fund can raise no objection,
that the Fund must agree to any
change if it is satisfied that it is
necessary to correct “a funda-
mental disequilibrium” and that,
in practice, the Fund has exer-
cised its authority reasonably.
In any case, the Government
has already undertaken to follow
the principles of the Fund. When
it became a contracting party to
G.A.T.T. it gave assurances that
it would continue to act in ex-
change matters in a manner fully
compatible with the principles
of the Fund and in accordance
with the intent of G.A.T.T.
Share-prices Downward
The downward revision of
share-prices, which began with
the less-popular issues, has, over
the last few weeks, extended to
some of the market leaders,
notably insurances and
breweries.
A realistic assessment of in-
surance prospects by the chair-
man of N.Z. Insurance, Mr.
R. D. Horton, had a sobering
effect, which was not confined to
insurance issues.
The company had reported a
record net premium inconie of
£7.4 million, but a £12,756 fall
in net profit to £732,695, caused
mainly by the highest loss ratio
(68.5 p.c.) for 34 years.
• Losses were attributed to three
main factors: unprecedentedly
large number of claims through-
out the world for workers’ com-
pensation ; the company’s sorry
experience in motor-car insur-
ance ; the heavy incidence of
storms, fires and road accidents
in the United States.
Investors’ sombre mood as
they considered these facts was
not lightened by the chairman’s
expression of opinion that the
trend to lower underwriting
profits would be maintained in
the immediate future and that
the co.’s record premium-income
might well be a peak for some
years.
Fundamental cause of the set-
back, he said, was that, after
more than a decade of rising
prices and commodity shortages,
most countries exporting agri-
cultural and . pastoral products
suddenly found themselves faced
with potential surpluses and
steady or weaker prices.
Forestry Shares
Shares in Maoriland’s three
big forestry companies have
recently shown an easing trend.
At August 24, Tasman Pulp
were down to 255. * (N.Z. cur-
rency), their lowest since July
last year, and ss. below their
peak. N.Z. Forest Products had
slipped back to 18s. 3d. from the
year’s high point of 19s. Id.
Whakatane had lost Is. to 235.
All three companies have a
sawn-timber business, and, in
the case of Forest Products and
Whakatane, this may be causing
some concern. There is fairly
clear evidence that the timber
industry is entering a more com-
petitive period.
The sharp check to building
caused by the credit-squeeze is
probably partly responsible for
a reduction in demand, but it
is the Australian export-market
which is causing most anxiety.
In the first six months of this
year sales to Australia have been
only half the hoped-for total.
Following negotiations by
the Prime Minister, Mr. Holland,
in February, Australia agreed to
issue licences for the importa-
tion of 52 million feet of N.Z.
timber in 1956, but by the end
of June sales amounted to only
12.5 million feet.
As a result, stocks have piled
up and mills which were working
44 to 48 hours a week are now-
back to 40 hours.
A delegation representing the
Dominion Sawmillers’ Federa-
tion will be in Australia in
September conducting a new
sales-drive. Its big task is to
replace part of Australia's
dollar imports of Oregon pine
with N.Z. radiata pine.
Production of woodpulp in
N.Z. for the year 1955-56 reached
almost 100,000 tons, compared
with 73,000 and 34,000 tons in
the two previous years.
Of the latest - year's produc-
tion, 37,994 tons was mechanical
pulp used entirely in N.Z. in the
manufacture of newsprint, paper-
board and fibre-board. The
remainder, about 61,395 tons, was
chemical pulp, of which about
one half was exported, mainly to
Australia. The year’s figures in-
clude those for Tasman, which
began production during the
period.
Whakatane Board’s new semi-
chemical pulp-unit, costing about
£150,000 for plant and building,
is about to go into production.
Using slabwood, at present
dumped as waste, it will turn
out ajbout 4000 tons of pulp,
valued at close to £200,000 each
year.
Whakatane has had some of
the customary teething troubles
with its second cardboard
machine, installation of which
was completed in July last year,
but the chairman reports that
they are being overcome.
Operations are being speeded-
up at Tasman’s Kawerau mill.
The newsprint machine has
reached its normal operating
speed of 1600 ft. a minute and
it is hoped to step up production
beyond this. Maximum speed is
2000 ft. a minute.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
TNCOME of this 78-year-old Australian
A insurance-office continues to grow, the
year to June 30 last seeing an increase of
16.2 p.c. in net premium income. Writing
fire and accident business throughout the
Commonwealth and coyering marine risks
through a world-wide string of agents,
the co. has expanded steadily over the
last decade, total assets climbing from
£2.4 million to £5.4 million in the last
five years.
Issued capital was doubled by a one-
for-one issue, at a 50 p.c. premium, in
1951, paid capital reaching £1 million
with the receipt of the final call in 1955.
The increase in capital has not affected
the 12i p.c. div. paid (with a 2\ p.c.
jubilee bonus in 1953) since 1949.
The scrip is well supported by strong
reserves, which also enhance the earning-
power of share-capital. At 58s. the £1
shares return 4.3 p.c. at the present rate
of distribution, net tangible cover, includ-
ing teserve for unexpired risks, amounting
to a shade under 695. 9d.
The higher premium revenue involved
an increase of £92,481 in expenses, but, as
a percentage of net premiums, the
expense-rate fell by 28s. per cent.:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Bate. Rate.
£ & &
1952.. 481.000 648,784 516,676 45.3 p.c. 36.1 p.c.
1953.. 163 714,581 634,032 45.2 „ 40.1 „
1954.. 1.813.913 950,302 636*529 62.4 „ 35.1 „
1955.. 2.153.622 1,061,629 796,531 49.3 „ 36.9 „
1956.. 503.655 1,327,725 889,012 53.0 „ 35.5 „
Heavier motor-vehicle, third-party and
workers’ - compensation claims made
business in these departments less profit-
able, and contributed to the increase of
745. per cent, in the overall loss-rate.
Net profit for the term was £3120
higher at £266,030, after making
(unstated) provision for taxation and
adding £150,000 to the reserve for
unexpired risks. Income from investments
(£129,112) contributed an extra £11,664
to earnings and covered the 12£ p.c. div.,
with £4112 to spare, leaving the under-
writing surplus to swell reserves:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f Dividends— serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951. .141,372 12* p.c. = 62,500 78,872 883,630
Share premiums, £250,000 .. .. 1,133,630
To unexpired risks, £163,000 .. 1,296,630
1952. .147,674 12* p.c. = 78,125 69,549 1,366,179
To unexpired risks, £87,000 .. 1,453,179
1953. .215,040 15 p.c. =112,500 1 M 540 .
Provident fund, £lO,OOO j aA64 ° 1,645,7
To unexpired risks, £lOO,OOO .. 1,645,719
Tax overprovision, £30,000 .. . . 1,675,719
1954. 12* p.c. = 97,656 120,546 1,796,265
Profit sale assets, £103,174 .. .. 1,899,439
To unexpired risks, £150,000 .. 2,049,439
1955. .262,910 12* p.c. =117,188 145,722 2,195,161
To unexpired risks, £150,000 .. 2,345,161
1956. .266,030 12* p.c. =125,000 141,030 2,486,191
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks, £1,060,000 at
30/6/’56.
Earnings equalled a return of 26.6 p.c. on
average capital, improving slightly on the
previous term’s 26.2 p.c. Income from
investments accounted for 44.8 p.c. of
the profit.
The greater volume of business over
recent years led to the acquisition of
additional properties during the term, the
conservatively stated book-value of free-
holds increasing by £88,249.
Balance-sheet comparisons reveal the
steady growth of the co.:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £878,072 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 1,796,264 2,195,160 2,486,190
Sundry creditors.. 1,548,595 1,601,841 1,740,404
Tax reserve . . 112,000 132,000 146,795
Final divs. ... 50,781 62,500 62,500
£4,385,712 £4,991,501 £5,435,889
Freeholds, etc. .. 824,756 877,666 965,915
Mortgages . . 134,893 142,588 222,079
Govt. securities,
shares, etc. .. 2,847,130 3,279,214 3,429,180
Book debts .. 460,200 592,608 697,246
Cash, etc. . . 118,733 99,425 121,469
£4,385,712 £4,991,501 £5,435,889
Mortgage investments were up by £79,491
and holdings of cash and Government
securities (at below face-value) increased
by £172,010. Funds for this expansion,
and the increase of £104,638 in debtors,
came mainly from retained earnings, with
an additional £138,563 owing to creditors.
At £1,060,000 the reserve for unexpired
risks was 42.3 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, providing £24,380 above the
40 p.c. ratio usually considered adequate.
The improved investment income and'
the growth of investments give promise
of an eventual lift in the div., while main-
tenance of the \2\ p.c. rate in the current
term should present little difficulty.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
revaluation of the co.’s
A half-interest in Australian Portland
Cement Pty., Ltd. (Australian Cement,
Melbourne, is the other partner), all but
£4856 of the £660,000 reserve created was
divided among Kandos shareholders by
writing-up the value of its own 16s. shares
to £1 and then issuing one new 20s. share
as fully paid for every two held previ-
ously. On completion of these moves
Kandos Cement’s capital was raised to
£1,403,880, and the book-value of its
holding in Australian Portland stood at
£1,910,000.
The finances of the operating company
are kept from public view, but over
the last few years plant-capacity at the
Geelong (Vic.) and Kandos (N.S.W.) i
works has been steadily expanded, and
sufficient extra profit has been passed on
to enable Kandos Cement to pay 10 p.c.
on increasing capital between 1946-54
and 12i p.c. in 1955. Last year Kandos’s
share of the profit covered a 10 p.c. div.
to -shareholders (equal to 18.8 p.c. on
capital before the bonus), with £9745 to
spare. Bond-interest made a small con-
tribution to the pool:
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 70,098 10 p.c. = 67,386 2,712 629,545
1951.. 69,778 10 „ „ 67,386 2,392 531,937
1952.. 76,276 10 „ „ 70,883 5,393 537,330
1953.. 83,020 10 „ ~ 74,859 8,161.545,491
From tax reserve, £7OOO ~ .. 552,491
1954.. 83,328 10 p.c. = 74,874 8,454 560,945
1955.. 102,378 124 „ ~93,592 8,786 669,731
Shares in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., Ltd., revalued, £660,000.. 1,229,731
Reserves capitalised, £655,144 .. 574,587
1956.. 150,133 10 p.c. =140,388 9,745 584,332
No dividend was received from the sub-
sidiary, Pipe Linings (Australasia) Pty.,
Ltd., which retained its entire profit for
the term to finance installation of plant
capable of handling much higher pipe-
diameters.
Demand for cement in Victoria is hold-
ing up well and another complete cement-
making unit, the sixth, comprising rotary-
kiln and auxiliary plant, is to be built at
Geelong with an annual capacity of
150,000 tons. When it is completed
total output of Australian Portland’s
Geelong plant will be 460,000' tons of
cement a year. In N.S.W., where produc-
tion has caught up with demand, additions
to the Kandos plant, which would
increase output “without great cost,” have
been held up by delays in obtaining
import-licences. Work on duplicating the
lime-kiln and hydrating lime-plant has
been almost completed, and at the co.’s
fully-mechanised coalmine, also at
Kandos, new coal-loading and other plant
was installed during the year to maintain
production at an economic level. Because
of haulage and mining problems in the
old areas it has been decided to open a
new mine on the co.’s leases.
The revaluation of shares and the
capitalisation referred to are the main
features of Kandos’s balance-sheet:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital ~ £748,'736 £748,’736 £1,403,880
Reserves .. . . 560,945 569,731 584,332
Creditors and tax
provision .. 3,280 3,506 3,402
Final divs. . . 37,437 1 46,796 70,194
£1,350,398 £1,368,769 £2,061,808
Shares in Aust.
Portland Cement
Pty. Ltd. .. 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,910,000
Shares in Pipe
Linings (A/asia)
Pty., Ltd. .. 6,000 5,000 5,000
, Due by subsid. .. 9,000 9,000 9,000
Cash, bbnds, etc. 86,398 104,769 137,808
£1>50,398 £1,368,769 £2,061,808
The holding in the subsidiary, Pipe Lin-
ings, appears unaltered at book-value of
£5OOO. Cash and Commonwealth bonds
increased £33,039 to £137,808.
On ’Change the £1 shares have lately
been traded at around 375. 6d., about
the mid-price for the year so far. At
that figure the yield on a 10 p.c. distribu-
tion is 5.3 p.c. Cover in net tangibles is
28s. 4d. a share.
Dfaffin Everhot, Ltd.
TM SPLAYING a pleasing flexibility of
operations, this enterprising little Vic-
torian manufacturer has successfully
skirted around the difficulties created by
Government restrictions on the use of
electric hot-water systems in its own
State in the last few years by turning to
the production of a number of new lines.
As well as electric hot-water systems
(still being made, but at a reduced level)
kerosene-, gas- and (the latest addition to
the range) oil-burning systems, electric
bath- and sink-heaters, low-level flushing-
cisterns and slow-combustion cooking-
ranges are now turned out at the co.’s
factories in and around Melbourne.
/ Following completion of extensions to
the Fishermen’s Bend plant, output of
slow-combustion stoves increased in
1955-56 (accounting for the year’s higher
turnover) and consideration is to be given
to erecting additional factory capacity if
demand for the stoves warrants it. Intro-
duction of the new type of oil-fired hot-
water system (made under licence from an
American manufacturer, Breese Burners,
and adapted by Draffin Everhot to local
conditions) will help to offset the effect
of further restrictions on electric systems,
sales of which dropped considerably last
term. Higher electricity costs in Victoria
appear to be imminent again.
Bigger sales notwithstanding, net profit
was down £3160 on the 1954-55 term, at
£34,467, after making provision for depre-
ciation (amount not stated) and taxation
(£25,000, up £4000):
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit. * Dividends serves, serves.f
31, £ £ £ £
1951 .. 17,321 10 p.c. 3,000* 14,321 41,291
Unexplained reduction, £3613 .. 37,678
1952 .. 18,172 10 p.c. = 9,000 9,172 46,850
Share-issue exps. written off, £617 .. 46,233
1953 .. 18,348 10 p.c. = 9,000 9,348 55,581
Unexplained addition, £6549 .. 62,130
1954 .. 24,185 10 p.c.= 11,250 12,935 75,065
Long-service leave provision, £4000.. 71,065
Share-issue exps. written off, £5OO . . 70,565
1955 .. 37,627 10 p.c. = 12,500 26,127 95,693
Unexplained addition, £1425 .. •• 97,118
1956 .. 34,467 10 p.c. = 15,000 19,467 116,586
* Four months only. f Subject to intangibles,
£44,325 at 31/3/’66. .
Explained mainly by the higher prices
paid for raw materials, the smaller return
last term was equal to a shade under
23 p.c. on mean capital, compared with
30.1 p.c. in the previous year and
21.5 p.c., 20.4 p.c., 20.2 p.c. and 19.2 p.c.
back to 1951. Profit apparently also
bore development and research costs on
the new type of hot-water system from
which no benefit was derived last year.
After distributing a 10 p.c. div., the rate
paid by the co. since it floated as a public
concern six years ago, £19,467 was added
to reserves, which on March 31 stood at
£116,585, subject to £44,325 of intangibles
(goodwill, patents, etc., and the difference
between the book-value and par-value of
an inter-company holding of shares).
Balance-sheet movements were in the
right direction:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital.. £112,500 £112,500 £150,000 £150,000
Reserves .. 55,581 75,065 95,693 116,585
Mortgages .. 31,056 30,394 29,281 67,015
Creditors, etc. 68,415 116,190 165,806 148,878
Long-service
leave .. 4,000 4,400
Tax provision 19,852 27,772 87,500 36,000
Dividends .. 9,000 11,250 12,500 15,000
£296,864 £373,171 £484,730 £527,878
Freeholds .. 44,579 71,696 87,789' 89,032
Leaseholds . . 12,909 14,130 13,655 19,605
Plant, etc. 26,450 43,183 52,737 63,315
Stock . . 61,165 84,867 143,469 152,993
Debtors .. 49,525 82,255 104,619 135,372
Cash, etc. . . 58,433 33,229 38,436 23,236
Intangibles . . 43,803 48,921 44,035 44,325
£296,854 £373,171 £484,730 £527,878
Book-debts were up £30,753 to £135,372,
and stocks, valued at or below cost at
£152,993, were only £9534 heavier. Addi-
tions to working assets cost £10,578 net.
To finance the outlay cash-balances were
reduced £15,200 and another £27,784
secured on mortgage. Working capital at
term’s end was £30,615 stronger at
£107,323.
Last traded on Melbourne ’Change at
125., the 10s. shares return 8.3 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Backing for the scrip
in net tangible assets is 14s. 9d. a share.
Engineering Supply Co. (Bris.)
OPERATING from a Brisbane head-
office and Rockhampton and Towns-
ville branches, .Engineering Supply Co.
distributes machinery, motor-vehicle
accessories, tractors, farm-equipment and
engineering-supplies over a large area of
Queensland. Trading since 1903, the co.
paid its first div. in 1905, ajid, since that
date, has never failed to make an annual
distribution to shareholders. Regular
dividends (17i p.c. for the last two years,
lifting the average to 13 p.c. for the past
decade) have not prevented the accumu-
lation of strong reserves, undistributed
profits providing most of the finance for
the heavier post-war turnover.
Revaluation of freehold properties
during the term was followed by the first
increase in paid capital since 1939, a one-
for-fwo bonus (£137,500) taking the total
to £412,500 in £1 shares.
After providing £64,821 (up £4821) for
taxation and allowing £7867 (up £1363)
for depreciation, net profit for the year
ended June 30 dropped by £7919 to
£101,379, expenses increasing at a higher
rate than sales:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. / Dividends- 1 N serves. serves.
£, £ £ £
194 V s ?’i o0 f 7,500 ! 20,0,00 168,004
To staff funds, £3OOO .. \
1950 •• 6 J’ 2 J 9 f j 2 * f 4 ’ 375 1 28,996 197,000
To staff funds, £3918 . .1
1951 •• 7 ?*| 73 42i §-^ n 34 * 376 } 40,500 237,500
To staff funds, £5OOO .. j
Unexplained reduction, £l5OO .. 236,000
i 952.. 74,375 p.c.= 34,375 \ 10 000 2 46,000
To staff funds, £30,000 • • )
Unexplained reduction, £15,730 .. 230,270
1953.. 56,250 15 p.c. = 41,250 15,000 245,270
1954. .100,980 15 „ ~41,250 59,730 305,000
Contingency reserve disclosed, £75,715 380,715
1955. .109,298 174 p.c. = 48,125 61,173 441,888
Unexplained reduction, £363 .. .. 441,525
Asset revaluation, £200,000 .. 641,525
Reserves £137,500 .. 504,025
1956. .101,379 17£ p.c. = 51,562 49,817 553,842
Gift-scrip was issued late in the term,
and profit to average capital represented
32.8 p.c., compared with 39.7, 36.7, 20.5
and 27 p.c. on the lower capital of the
preceding four years. The 17! p.c. div.,
worth 18| p.c, on pre-bonus holdings’
required an extra £3437.
The revaluation of freeholds added
£200,000 to their book-value, asset-
revaluation account standing at £62,500
after capitalising £1^7,500.
Shareholders are well protected,
reserves exceeding paid capital bv
£141,342:
1954. 1955. 1058.
Paid capital .. £275,000 £276,000 £412 500
Reserves .. .. 305,000 441,888 653,842
Overdraft . . 581 51,081 45,802
Creditors .. .. 146,037 120,468 113,905
Tax provision* .. 131,016 60,000 66,000
Staff funds .. 43,416 43,268 43,253
Final divs. .. 20,626 27,600 80,937
£920,676 £1,019,180 £1,266,239
Freeholds .. 69,628 65,608 290,626
Furniture and
vehicles, etc. .. 23,007 21,781 29,626
Stocks ' .. .. 412,020 556,884 646,978
Debtors . . . . 315,790 315,552 834,506
Cash, bonds, etc. .. 110,330 69,456 64,604
£920,676 £1,019,130 £1,266,289
* Includes provision for contingencies up to 1964.
The balance-sheet movements strengthened
the co.’s already strong position, working
capital improving by £16,441 to £646,090,
and extensions to Rockhampton premises
and other improvements adding £25,118
to the value of freeholds, now shown at
a valuation plus cost figure of £290,626.
Surplus earnings were used to reduce out-
side liabilities, creditors falling by £6553,
while the overdraft was down by £5229.
Debtors owed the co. an extra £18,953,
and, after a big jump in the previous
year, stocks were £9906 lighter at
£546,978.
At 475. 6d. the f.-p. £1 shares would
return 7.4 p.c. from a 17! p.c. distribu-
tion. Net tangible assets, excluding pro-
vision for contingencies, provide a cover
of 48s. Id.
Carrier Air Conditioning, Ltd.
"EXPANDING at a brisk rate over the
last four or five years, Carrier Air
Conditioning now proposes to double
paid capital by a one-for-one par issue
to shareholders. With trade stimulated
by the high level of commercial building
and the acceptance of air-conditioning
as a normal amenity, the turnover of
the co. has more than quadrupled since
1950. Record sales and earnings are
disclosed in the latest published accounts,
and continued success is indicated by
outstanding orders, also at a record
level.
Formed in 1932, the co. manufactures
and installs air-conditioning and refrigera-
tion-plant for an Australia-wide market,
operating front factories in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Canberra.
The current new issue, announced less
than 18 months after a one-for-two offer-
ing, will, when fully paid, raise capital
to £525,000 in £1 shares with a further
10,000 shares available to employees at
the discretion of the directors. During
the term holders of the 50,000 £l5! P c-
prefs. were invited to convert their shares
into registered 7 p.c. notes, the net effect
of their acceptance and the final call on
the earlier issue, being a drop of £6250
in paid capital, now standing at £262,500.
Registered notes amount to £150,000,
including the £50,000 mentioned above.
New plant and premises’ assisted pro-
duction for a portion of the year, turn-
over to June 30 last reaching £983,630,
an increase of 18 p.c., following a 53
p.c. jump in the previous term. Provisions
of £55,000 for taxation (up £13,000) and
£17,134 (up £1048) for depreciation were
made before arriving at net earnings of
£78,294, an increase of £11,598:
June B e "
30. Profit. t Dividends s serves.*
5 p-.c. Pref. Ord.
£ £ £ £
Written off goodwill, £l5OO .. 73,665
Transfer from inner reserve, £l5OO '4.665
Surplus sale assets, £747 .. • • 75,412
1951.. 20,994 2500 9 p.c. = 13,540 80,366
Written off goodwill, £l5OO .. 78,866
Surplus sale assets, £11,039 .. 1 89,905
1952.. 28,827 2500 9 p.c. = 15,300 100,932
Written off intangibles, £l5OO ..
Surplus sale assets, £3OOl ••
1953.. 48,133 2500 10 p.c. = 17,000 131,066
Written off intangibles, £11,796 .. I* 9 '-'-
Surplus sale assets, £329 .. •• 719,099
1954.. 52,712 2500 10 p.c. = 17,250 132,561
Tax underprovided, £49 .. •• 152,aK
Surplus sale assets, £382 ..
1955.. 66,626 2500 12*p.c.= 25,157 191,93»
Surplus sale assets, £1444 ..
Debenture issue expenses, £4757 ..
1956.. 78,294 333 12|p.c.= 31,355 230^2-t>
* Subject to intangibles (£11,796 at 31/6/’5B).
which were' rubbed out of the accounts in the I9ai
term.
With a good earning-rate maintained, the
ord. div. required only 40 p.c. of the net
profit which, after covering the small
pref. div., showed a return of a shade
over 31 p.c. on average capital, com-
pared with 30.6, 29.1, 26.8 and 18.4 p.c.
in the preceding four years. Taxed in
the past on the 5! p.c. div. paid to the
pref. shareholders, the 7 p.c. interest novv
going to note-holders reduces the co. s
taxable earnings.
Comparative balance-sheets illustrate


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator* has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
guthridge pty. ltd
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
ELECTRIC LIFTS hydraulic
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
LIFE ASSURANCE
FOR
<M
ezvice
YEARS
'V
;\ s
M
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building:, Hunter & Bligli Streets, Sydney.
1
n
I
&
\
Wm
%mm
m
:
Q\v£qA foY
Hie
Occasion...
. . . in a Dinner Suit by Siandrat
Your “Special-Occasion” suit has to be
special. . . comfortable, yet smoothly-fitted; smart,
yet styled with careful good-taste; durable, to
give you years and years of wear.
Stamina Dinner Suits are tailored .. •
from top-grade Crusader Pure Wool Cloth
selected, styled, cut by specialists ; . . for men of
discrimination.
A Stamina Dinner Suit is pre-tailoring
at its superb best . . .
CLDTHtS
D 51.113
ASK FOR
Stamina.
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
the co.’s growth, total assets
doubling over two years:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. . . £50,000 £50,000
Ord. .. 175,000 218,750 £262,500
Reserves .. 152,561 191,933 235,226
Unsecured
notes .. 150,000
Overdraft.. 19,174 81,921
Creditors,
etc. .. 86,222 164,132 . 194,750,.
Tax prov’n 34,000 42,000 73,435
Final divs. 8,750 16,407 19,688
£506,533 £702,396 £1,017,520
Freeholds . 130,550 151,687 278,102
Plant, etc. 66,603 71,633 103,277
Stock .. 210,183 316,077 356,104
Debtors . . 79,337 152,113 267,172
Cash, etc... 19,860 10,886 12,865
£506,533 £702,396 £1,017,520
Undistributed profits jnd the new
capital, together with £lOO,OOO
of the note-issue, £62,747 from
the bank and a £30,618 increase
in creditors, enabled a net
increase of £158,069 in fixed
assets, while debtors were up by
£115,059 and stocks were
£40,027 higher. Working capital
at the close of the term was
£28,984 higher at £266,347.
The co.’s development plans,
proposed and in progress, include
new factories or extensions to
existing premises in four States
providing facilities for the
increased turnover, expected, as
the renovation of older buildings,
as well as new construction, calls
for the installation of air-
conditioning plant.
The new issue will not be fully
paid until after the end of the
current term, but last term’s
earnings were enough to cover a
continued 12| p.c. div. on the
higher capital.
At an e.v-rights price of 28s. 9d,
the f.-p. £1 ords. would return
8.7 p.c. from'a 12£ p.c. div., the
rights after early sales at Bs. 6d.
being offered at 7s. 9d. At the
close of accounts each £1 share
was supported by net tangible
assets of 375. lid.
Central Norseman Gold Corp .
OIGGEST profit-earner of the
Western Mining Corp.
group, this co. works the
Phoenix and Princess Royal
mines at Norseman in West Aus-
tralia. It has a paid capital of
£650,000 in ss. shares, of which
W.M.C. owns 50 p.c.
Attractive returns have been
won from the operations of
recent years, and the co. is at
present engaged in opening-up
new areas of interest.
Last term an extra 2664 tons
(160,531 tons) of higher-grade
ore (average 11.48dwt., up
0.96dwt.) was treated for
91140 z- more fine gold which
realised an additional £141,968
(£1,448,880):
Ore , ,
Treated, Gold, Silver, Profit. Divs.
Tons. Oz. Oz. £ £
■ 25%
'50..137,689 44,924 31,789 182,628 162,500
15%
'53..153,928 41,429 40,536 115,927 97,500
10%
'52..149,088 49,091 47,198 207,987 65,000
50%
’53-161,444 78,591 53,581 614,745 325,000
60%
’54-155,314 77,410 56,926 514,794 390,000
60%
’55-157,867 83,023 52,234 592,999 390,000
60%
’56-160,531 92,137 47,362 641,976 390,000
There was a jump in operating
costs (up 11.75. a ton to 100 s.
a ton), and net profit from the
richer ore treated showed a
slower rise, up £48,977 to
£641,976, which was 98.8 p.c. on
capital of £650,000 as against 91.2
p.c. in 1955 and 79.9 p.c. in 1954.
The div. was maintained at
60 p.c:
Treatment costs (20.55. a ton)
amounted.to only 0.35. a ton of
the increase in costs, but because
a considerable proportion of the
ofre drawn from the Regent
section during the year was
obtained from cleaning - out
slopes and remnants above
No. 29 level, mining costs in this
section were high. Conditions at
the Princess Royal were normal.
Average overall cost a ton of
mining was 6.45. a ton higher
at 57.55. A bigger amount
of developmental work was done,
and the redemption charge
written-olf against earnings was
£176,584 compared with £134,187
the previous year, an average of
225. (up 55.) a ton.
During the term headframe
and sinking-equipment were
installed and a ventilation-shaft
and preliminary development
began at the Crown reef (west
of the Regent shaft), where the
drill has penetrated ore-bearing
quartz with assay values rang-
ing from 7.6dwt. to 144.3dwt.
Excluding any ore in the
Crown reef, ore reserves at
March 20 were estimated as
446,000 tons averaging B.sdwt.
a ton, compared with 495,300
tons at 9.3dwt. grade a year ago.
Finances are very liquid. On
balance - date current assets
totalled £677,103, of which
£173,151 was stores. Cash on
interest - bearing deposit was
£364,666. Creditors and pro-
visions came to only £55,449.
Developmental costs, after allow-
ing for amounts writt@n-off,
stood at £483,466 (up £65,405).
The market prices the scrip at
40s. as against 325. 3d. a year
ago.
Limited Companies
TN Limited Liability Companies
-*• in Australia (Law Book Co.)
the author, R. Keith Yorston,
provides a compendium of infor-
mation and counsel for digestion
by top-level businessmen. He
deals with the nature and con-
trol of companies, composition
of directorates, shareholders’
relations, and company public-
relations and political-relations.
The section dealing with balance-
sheet presentation for public
information is obviously based on
factual study and in co-operation
with executives who have a
practical interest in the problem.
There is an abundance of
material in the book based on
company-surveys made in Aus-
tralia, and a lavish array of
reproductions of graphs, illustra-
tions, etc., from actual company-
reports in J order to make the
purpose of the book more easily
understood. ' There are also
case-studies of six leading Aus-
tralian public cos. prepared by
executives of the companies
concerned.
There is a chapter on
“Economics of Australian Com-
pany Finance” which provides
a wealth of national financial
background for the company-
executive ; the information is
based on the breakdown of the
national-income figures supplied
by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician, Commonwealth Bank
statistics, Australian National
University surveys and other
sources. This chapter should be
particularly useful in helping the
businessman to interpret what
economists so glibly talk about,
especially at Budget-time.
The book provides a great
deal of advice to those in
industry attempting to combat
the many “isms” which assail
private enterprise.
The High Cost of Drilling
[From 1,. Owen]
TN B. 27/6/’56 I dealt with a
A case in which the cost of
contract-drilling for shallow
wells in search of oil on the
Australian mainland was around
£2O a foot.
It is interesting to note that
costs are now available for the
oilwell holding the world record
for depth, which was sunk in
Plaquemine Parish, Louisiana.
The well reached around
22,000 ft. at the beginning of this
year, and the gross cost of drill-
ing out at approximately
$62.8 (or, say, £A2B) a foot.
If, as a rough guide, it is
taken that drilling-costs per foot
increase in direct ratio to the
total depth an assumption
which usually underestimates the
expense of drilling wells deeper
than 10,000 ft. the' charge
for drilling 5000-6000 ft. bore-
holes should be of the
order of a quarter of £2B, or,
say, £lO a foot in Australia,
allowing a reasonable margin of
profit and the more difficult
supply and labor conditions here
than iu U.S.A.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The city has been looking much livelier
this week, particularly down the Town
Hall end, for the school-holidays have
brought swarms of bright-eyed, urgent
youngsters to town for (a) the Fun Fair
in the basement of the T.H. and ( b ) the
Careers Exhibition at the Trocadero
near by.
The cultural standard at the Careers
Exhibition was, of course, much higher
than that at the Fun Fair, the first being
opened by a Federal Cabinet Minister,
the second by an orang-outang. Still,
there was a very long queue for the Fun
Fair, and many mothers, rather than
wait in the sun and wind, took the small
fry to the Careers Exhibition (which
also had the advantage of being free).
Actually, the Careers Exhibition was
very entertaining as well as instructive.
The more glamorous and exciting aspects
of various jobs were stressed, and the
children had great fun testing Navy
equipment, trying-out telephones, learn-
ing how to take care of a premature
baby, and watching films. The insurance
business, especially, showed imagination
by displaying, not a man sitting at a
desk or knocking at a door, but models
of such things as aeroplanes, railways,
and a house burning down.
☆ ☆ ☆
Arrived from England during the week,
Mrs. Leo McKern, with small daughter
Abigail. Mrs. McKern, who is actress
Jane Holland, is a Sydney girl who has
made a name for herself in England, and
who was seen here with the Stratford-
on-Avon company a few years ago. Her
present visit was planned so that she
could see her husband play the part of
Ned Kelly in the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust’s forthcoming production of
Douglas Stewart’s verse-play.
Another arrival from abroad was that
of Mr. and Mrs. Sam Lands, who have
been in Tahiti “for the celebrations.”
When asked “What celebrations?” the
unexpected answer was “The Fall of the
Bastille.” Bigger and bigger earrings
are the fashion in Tahiti, apparently.
“They cover the whole ear and hang
two inches below the lobe,” Mr. Lands
is reported as saying. Did the Bastille
fall for this—to take the manacles off
the feet and put them on the ears?
☆ ☆ ☆
The annual meeting of the Sydney
District Nursing Association, the 56th
(which means that the association started
with the century), revealed another year
of wonderful service to the poor, sick
and bedridden in . this community. As
the chairman, Dr. Helen Taylor, said in
her comments on the report, all the rain,
cold and wind Sydney experienced earlier
in the year made the 90,639 visits paid
by the nursing-staff of 33 to the homes of
the sick a really difficult task.
Guest-speaker Dr. Frances McKay
(who is chief-superintendent of the
Nursing Priory of St. John in Australia)
said in her talk on the St. John Ambu-
lance and the St. John Brigade that,
whereas only one in 19 people could
cope with an emergency calling for first-
aid, it was necessary in these modern
times for everyone to be able to do so.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another annual meeting was that of
the Councif of Social Service of N.S.W.,
at which the president, Miss Kate
Ogilvie, took the chair. During the year
the council did some valuable research
into the employment problems of the
physically-handicapped, organised an
Association for Mental Health with Miss
Norma Parker as chairman of the com-
mittee (it will have its inaugural meeting
on October 3), and inquired into the need
for the recruitment and training of
leaders for youth in leisure-time activities.
Mr. R. H. Hicks, Under-Secretary,
Department of Child Welfare, was the
chief speaker ; he stressed the changes
that are taking place in the social-pattern.
Other speakers were Miss Eileen David-
son (secretary of the Australian Social
Welfare Council) and Mr. P. Baldwin.
☆ ☆ ☆
Where men take a back seat. The
Y.W.C.A. is organising a Trophy Car
Rally, which is to be a pleasant Satur-
day’s run with sub-events of an interest-
ing, testing and amusing nature, though
it is not a reliability trial. The date is
l3, and the rules provide that
“Although the driver and navigator must
be ladies, males will be permitted to
travel in the vehicle provided they occupy
the rear seat at all times.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Engagement of the week is that of
Jill Campbell to Anthony Headlam, the
marriage to take place in Hong Kong on
September 14. Jill is the elder daughter
of the late Mr. Bruce Campbell, of
Goorianawa, Gulargambone, and of
Mrs. Campbell, of Darling Point, and
with her sister Beth is among Sydney’s
best-known young lovelies. Her fiancd is
the eldest son of Mr. M. F. Headlam and
Lady Vera Headlam, of Pre Mill House,
St. Albans, Herts, England. Beth
Campbell, who is at present in England,
will fly to Hong Kong to be bridesmaid
at the wedding, the second bridesmaid
being Patsie Craig, another of Sydney’s
outstanding younger-set members.
☆ ☆ ☆
Discussion at the Younger Set Annual
Conference of the Country Women’s
Association, held at C.E.N.E.F. on Satur-
day, did not seem to be so animated this
year as in the past. However, the lack
of supervision on the north-west mails,
on which apparently there are no guards
except at stations, caused some, spirited
discussion. Miss Pam Saunders was an
attractive and able chairman, receiving
hints and instructions from the C.W.A.’s
State president, Mrs. J. A. Lander.
Guest-speaker was Miss Lorna Byrne.
☆ ☆ ☆
The national TV-service is to begin in
Sydney and Melbourne early in
November, though only on an interim
basis —the service will not be fully in
operation till next April. However, the
temptation to look at the Olympic Games
just as they are happening will probably
make a TV-set a budget-item in many
families. Mothers Will be glad to hear
that there will be a complete break in
transmission between the end of the
children’s session and the opening of the
evening programme (between 6 p.m. and
7 p.m.), as is the practice in the U.K. „
Apparently TV does not play such an
all-absorbing part in the American life
as it did. Keen-eyed travellers report
that sets are seen less frequently now in
the living-room and more frequently in
the rumpus-room and (in small sets) in
the bedrooms.
An English bride whose marriage is of
interest to Sydney people is Daphne
Celeste Claire, daughter of Commander
and Mrs. C. Markham-David, of London.
Her husband is Henry Bosch, son of the
late Mr. G. H. Bosch and of Mrs. G.
Mikulicic-Rodd, of Sydney, who has
been doing post-graduate work abroad,
both in England and Geneva.
Travellers who have witnessed it say
there is no more distressing sight in this
modern world than the refugee-camps of
Europe, where 70,000 men, women and
children are living in the direst poverty.
Those who wish to help may send dona-
tions to the Australian Commission for
Inter-church Aid, 37 Swanston-street,
Melbourne. Such funds will be signifi-
cant beyond the receipt for pounds,
shillings and pence, for where one
refugee is helped, 10 are encouraged to
hope.
MELBOURNE
Lady Selleck, now entering her third
year as Lady Mayoress, has won wide
esteem and affection by her gracious
manner and her untiring efforts for many
causes. An enthusiastic first-nighter, her
theatre-dressing is always tasteful.
☆ ☆ ☆
The harbingers of spring have been
around for weeks-—the brave new buds on
the trees, in Collins-street; the florists’
windows massed with golden daffodils,
perfumed boronia and branches of white
and pink blossom; and, of course, the
short-sleeved cotton frocks, the filmy
nylons and the intoxicating hats. And
now spring is here! But the sniffs and
the coughs still outnumber the daffs. and
the boronia. Still, it won’t be long now!
Jane, younger daughter of Mr, and
Mrs. John Casson, of Toorak, and grand-
daughter of Dame Sybil Thorndike and
Sir Lewis Casson, is at present, in prepara-
tion for her stage-career, learning the
piano and singing, and studying French
and German. Like her famous grand-
mother in speech and liveliness, she has
joined the Union Theatre Repertory
Company as a very junior member; at the
moment she is in the props, department.
She is hoping to go to England next year
to attend drama-school.
Mrs. John Casson, whose husband
came from England to produce shows for
The Firm, has been appointed representa-
tive in Victoria for the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust. One of her first jobs will
be to let the public know all about the
forthcoming Mozart-opera season, spon-
sored by the trust as an Olympic Games
offering. The first opera will be pre-
sented on October 17.
☆ ☆ ☆
University Vice-Chancellor Professor
G. W. Paton and Mrs. Paton gave a
bright and informal late-afternoon party
in the private dining-room of Union
House to introduce the permanent mem-
bers of the Union Theatre Repertory
Company, which has just commenced its
fourth season. “The Troublemaker” was
the play chosen to begin the season,
during which 12 plays will be presented.
Wal Cherry is the producer.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Overseas League celebrated its
birthday with a dance at No. 9 Darling-
street, when 200 guests were present. A
feature of the decorations was a large
model of a sailing-ship (the league’s
motif) made of wire and covered with
flowers. Spring flowers were massed on
the official table, which also carried
attractive Italian candelabra lent by Mrs.
Francis Sierp. The guests-of-honor re-
ceived by club-president Brigadier A. E.
Brown and Mrs. Brown (who wore a
gown of midnight-blue taffeta with a fur-
wrap) included Sir Thomas and Lady
White, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. R. S.
Wellby, and Air-Marshal Sir George
Jones and Lady Jones. Also in the official
party were Brigadier Ronald Irving and
Mrs. Irving, and Mr. and Mrs. Francis
Sierp. Mrs. T. Hudson, wife of the
league’s secretary, wore hyacinth-blue
satin with silver embroideries on the
bodice. Mrs. V. Morgan’s white organza
gown was splashed with large red roses.
☆ . ☆ ☆
In a preview of plastic raincoats,
designed and presented by Plastalon,
attractive mother-and-daughter coats were
eye-catching, and there were even father-
and-son matching-coats. For both men
and women there were plastic trench-coats
which were air-conditioned. Swirling
full-circle skirts and the new wide-
rounded collar which also is used for a
hood were features of some raincoats,
which were in many colors and of a
dazzling array of both modern and
Oriental designs. The polka-dot and the
hailspot were well to the fore. Color-
schemes included red - over - green,
mulberry-over-blue, and one navy coat
was spotted in pink.
# & #
The Robin Hood Committee for the
Helping Hand Association for Mentally
Retarded Children invites entries for its
first art-competition. There is a prize
of £75 for the best oil-painting, and one
of £3O for the best watercolor. The judges
will be Gordon Thompson (Deputy-
Director of the Victorian National
Gallery), Bernard Smith (lecturer in Fine
Arts at the University), and artist Len
Annois. Closing-date is October 3 at
11.30 a.m., and works are to be taken to
the Royale Ballroom; they will be
received on October 1 and 2 at the home
of the president,-Mrs. James Alston, 25
Coolullah-avenue, South Yarra. From
the entries the 40 paintings adjudged to
be the best will be hung for the Bohemian
Ball on October 5 in the foyer of the
Royale Ballroom. Entry-forms may be
obtained from Mrs. Alston.
☆ ☆ ☆
Before he returned to England, Aus-
tralian artist Kenneth Rowell, who was
brought out by the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust to design the sets for the Mozart
operas “The Marriage of Figaro” and
“Don Giovanni,” which are to be pre-
sented during the Olympic Games, was
host at the opening of his art-show at the
Peter Bray Gallery. This gay and informal
affair was notable for the fact that an
exhibiting artist turned the champagne
On. Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs. Massey
Burnside, Dulcie Gray (leading-lady in
“Tea and Sympathy”), Professor Keith
Macartney, Irene Mitchell, Mrs. John
Summons, Margaret Cochran, Mrs. D. J.
Ross and her daughter Julia, and Mrs.
Dolia Ribush were at the opening.
☆ ☆ ☆
Children in the first-night audience at
Her Majesty’s Theatre were delighted
with the “Pirates of Penzance.” Sir
Frank and Lady Tait brought their three
daughters, Ann, Isla and Sally. Little
Anne Noone was with her mother, Mrs.
Dick Noone ; little Lucille Hallows was
with her mother, Mrs. B. R. Hallows,
and her aunt, Dr. Gladys Hallows. Also
enjoying the Gilsullivan airs and nonsense
were Mrs. Harry Scott, her son and
daughter-in-law Mr. and Mrs. Alan Scott,
Colonel F. H. Wright and Mrs. Wright,
Mrs. Charles Burge and Dr. and Mrs. R.
Shatin.
CANBERRA
Many lovely gowns were worn at the
gala dinner-dance arranged by a com-
mittee headed by Madame Hess, wife
of the German Ambassador, to aid the
Australian Red Cross. About 200 guests
danced in the colorful Carlton lounge
of Canberra’s Hotel Ainslie-Rex. Lady
Holmes, wife of the High Commissioner
for U.K., Sir Stephen Holmes, wore a
striking gown of black-and-white nylon
over a flame underskirt. Madame Hess
chose a model gown of old-gold pure
silk with finely-pleated skirt, by Schulze-
Arell, of Munich.
The High Commissioner for New
Zealand and Mrs. Alderton entertained
their guests, Mr. and Mrs. Wolf Fisher,
of N.Z., Mrs. Alderton wearing a charm-
ing short frock of black embossed Swiss
cotton over a full coral,-pink underskirt.
Madame Lambros, who will shortly
accompany her husband to Cairo, where
he will become Ambassador for Greece,
chose a Balmain model gown in ruby-
red duchesse satin with a silver-grey
embroidered stole. Madame Deseta, wife
.of the Brazilian Charge d’Affaires, wore
a Lucille Manjain model in. black
grosgrain, the close-fitting bodice
encrusted with small jewels, the skirt
short and full, while Madame Chen's
traditional Chinese gown was of rich
colorful brocade.
The Charge d’Affaires of the Austrian
Legation, Dr. J. Manz, and Madame
Manz enjoyed the dancing, her vivid
emerald brocade gown lending a bright
note of color. Mrs. F. W. Lukis, wife of
Air-Commodore Lukis, was honorary
treasurer ; her attractive gown of silver
brocade was cut on classical lines.
Other guests included Mr. Justice
Simpson and Mrs. Simpson, she wearing
a full-skirted cinnamon chiffon gown;
Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Fraser; Mr. and
Mrs. E. H. Cox; country guests Mr. and
Mrs. Peter Snow, of Cuppacumbalong,
and Mr. and Mrs. J. Collins, of Yass.


RIVERDELL FLATS
Old Burleigh Road,
BROAD BEACH,
Surfer’s Paradise, Q'land.
NEW ULTRA MODERN FUR-
NISHED FLATS TO LET, for
long or short periods. Every
Comfort, including Refrigeration,
Hot and Cold Water, Wall-to-
Wall Carpets and Inner-spring
Mattresses throughout. Close to
Surf (patrolled beach). Near
Lenndn’s New Hotel. For ideal
holiday accommodation, write
now to Resident Proprietors.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO KEITH CHARLES GAYTON late of
Cootamundra in the State of New South
Wales but whose present whereabouts are
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
BETTY AMELIA GAYTON has com-
menced an action No. 1539 of 1955
against you for dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of your desertion without
just cause for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend this action you may
enter an appearance in the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane within Thirty days from the date
of the service of the Writ- and Petition
on you which shall be deemed to have
been effected Twenty-one days after the
sending of a copy of the said Writ and
Petition by post to you care of CHARLES
EDWARD GAYTON at Wangan via Innis-
fail in the said State or Twenty-one days
after the last of the publications of this
notice in “The Sydney Bulletin” which-
ever is the latest. You may obtain a
copy of the Writ of Stimmons and Petition
from MESSRS. TROUT BERNAYS & CO.,
Solicitors, 329 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
—L. CHRISTOPHERSON, Second Deputy
Registrar.
TROUT BERNAYS &r CO., Solicitors, 329
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
IN THE SUPREME•COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JACK MALONEY late of 27 Kings-
ford Avenue, Eastwood. —TAKE NOTICE
that ALBERT EDWARD DOWNES has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4660 of
1950 on the grounds of your adultery with
AMY MABEL DOWNES If you wish to
defend you might enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 26th day of October
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from ALLAN E. CUPIT &
BEST, Solicitors, of Federal Mutual
Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD HENRY BRITTON late of
23 Wentworth Street, Georgetown.—TAKE
NOTICE that ELSPETH BRITTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1207 of
1956 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for 3 years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 2nd of November 1956 and
obtain a copy of the .Petition without
charge from A. ALISTER JOHNSON &
McDonald, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle; or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO., Solicitors,_of 2 York Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO KEITH NEVILLE WILLIAMS for-
merly of Strathfield. —TAKE NOTICE
that CHRISTINA MARY WILLIAMS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2383 of
1955 on the grounds of desertion for 3
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
12th of November 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
W. D. SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt
Street, Sydney, New South Wales.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directora: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. * p v
■Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Victoria de los Angeles >
At her Saturday-matinee con-
cert in Sydney the Spanish
soprano rose above the handicap
of a voice slightly affected by
fatigue in the opening bracket of
early-Italian songs —her voice
is produced with such perfec-
tion and her interpretative
powers are so facile that the
defect was almost negligible.
Her voice gained in life and
lift in the second group of songs,
which included two wordless
vocalises. The first was a rather
mediocre one by Rachmaninoff,
the second was in the form of a
Habanera by Ravel, and in this
Miss de los Angeles used an
exquisite trilling technique—a
copybook exposition of an art
that has, for too many sopranos,
become merely a vehicle for
spectacular but meretricious
display.
There was exquisite fragility in
the singing of Richard Strauss’s
“Morgen”—sung on the half-
voice throughout, the long, slow
phrases were perfectly controlled.
In the eight Spanish songs with
which the singer traditionally
winds-up her recitals, the pert-
ness and mischievous coquetry
which invest the majority of
Iberian songs were reflected in
singing which always had the
hint of laughter behind it.
In her subsequent appearance
with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra conducted by Tibor
Paul, Miss de los Angeles sang
the Mozart motet, “Exsultate
Jubilate.” Mozart, who knew as
much as any composer about
the human voice and the limits
to which it can be pushed, made
this a punishing test in singing
extended phrases which require
perfection of breath-control —
phrases which are also studded
with difficult turns and trills and
octave-leaps. The soprano sang
it with all the purity of tone
and effortless soaring vitality that
one has come to expect of her.
The orchestra played two
widely divergent symphonies.
The first was Haydn’s 97th, its
heartiness and geniality well
captured, with never a cloud on
the harmonic sky, even in the
slow movement.
Mahler’s Fifth, a paean to
death, a mixture of turbulent
outpourings, mysticism and
romanticism, overshot with the
composer’s eagerness to deliver
himself of his philosophy in
the grand manner, gained greatly
in this reading from the con-
ductor’s driving vigor and the
balance he obtained from the
various choirs. ' r
There were occasions—as, for
instance, in sections of the
Funeral March where his
forces didn’t respond sufficiently
to his adjurations for a dampen-
ing effect. But the rhythmic im-
pulses of the scherzo and the big
climactic phases were delivered
with the requisite lilt and power,
and the overall effect of this
70-minute work was one of
artistic worth.
“The Reluctant Debutante’*
Nobody would accuse William
Douglas Home, who is the son
of a peer, of any profundity of
thought in this latest offering at
Melbourne Comedy, but he has
a nimble comedic talent and a
quick wit, and he presents
Grandma’s ideas on sex and
marriage in a lively enough
manner to keep packed houses
bubbling with mirth.
Jimmy Broadbent, resigned
and easygoing, and his socially
ambitious wife, Sheila, bring
their 17-year-old daughter up to
London and launch her with
champagne on the world of
Mayfair, view to marriage. Mrs.
Broadbent’s choice is David
Bullock, a guardsman with the
brain and some of the propen-
sities of a bulljmt. Daughter
plumps for David Hoylake-
Johnstone, whose chief allure is
a reputation for being a bit of a
Don Juan. \
For giving appearance of
importance to this bit of
and-bubble the company is a
good one; if Mr. Home had
picked his own team he couldn’t
have done better. Roger Livesey
and Ursula Jeans are the Dion
Boucicault and Irene Vanbrugh
of modern entertainment, and
Diana ten Hove, Diana Perry-
man, Fenella Maguire and John
Meillon have picked up their
accent. The last-named raised
the character of the guardsman
almost to the status of a psycho-
logical study.
Katherine Dunham
Anybody who had missed
Katherine Dunham’s show at
Melbourne Princess and wants
to repair the omission had better
take a trip to Sydney, where
the show opens at the Tiv. on
September 14.
There is the same difference
between classical ballet and the
dancing of Miss Dunham s
Spanish Indians, Mexicans and
West Indies negroes, mulattoes
and quadroons as there is
between a Brahms symphony and
a folk-song. Ballet is a language,
and a highly complex language,
and you have to learn the lan-
guage if you want to understand
it. There is nothing much to
understand in the dancing of the
Dunhams, any more than there
is anything much to understand
in a .lovely little folk-song—or
in the sprituals they sing
superbly.
Although they are extra-
ordinarily skilful dancers, they
amble inconsequentially about
the stage, leap into the air and
run around after the skirts of
the dusky ladies as if uncon-
scious of what they are doing,
like excited children at a party.
Miss Dunham seems a little more
self-conscious than her troupers,
but, then, she came to appreci-
ation of the folk-dance via the
intellect, whereas with them it
is as natural a form of expres-
sion as their yelling and their
laughing.
F. S.
»:« *>
“The Confidential Clerk”
The confidential clerk of T. S.
Eliot’s play of that name, put
on by the Tin Alley Players at
the Union Theatre, University
of Melbourne, is Colby
Simpkins. He is the illegitimate
son of big businessman Sir
Claude Mulhammer —or Bir
Claude thinks he is—and he
brings Colby, under his assumed
name, into his household, which
already includes his wife. Lady
Elizabeth, and her illegitimate
daughter, Lucasta, betrothed to
young Barnabas Kaghan.
This is a most unusual set-up,
and it becomes more unusual
when Lady Elizabeth’s maternal
instinct tells her that Colby is
her son by a former lover.
Instinct isn’t an infallible guide,
however. Mrs. Guzzard turns-
up, and is quite sure that Colby
is neither Lady Elizabeth’s son
nor Sir Claude’s, but hers, and
quite legitimate into the bargain.
It seems Sir Claude’s mistress,
who was Mrs. Guzzard’s sister,
died in childbirth, and to spare
Sir Claude’s feelings and make
a bit of money, being very hard-
up, Mrs. Guzzard pretended that
her son was Sir Claude's son —
his son, in actual fact, being
Barnabas Kaghan.
Slightly incredible as this situa-
tion seems, in the hands of a
playwright interested in human
feelings it has enough emotional
possibilities to blow up 10
Bikinis. But T. S. EliQt isn’t
interested in the emotional, or
moral issues. In fact, none of his
characters reacts as if possessed
of a conscience. All are puppets.
If G. B. Shaw had written the
play he would have dealt with
the political and social implica-
tions and have produced a
different sort of puppets, but Mr.
Eliot is trying to work out a
philosophical problem—the old
“seems-is” problem."
Colby seems to be Sir Claude’s
son, but is he? To Lady
Elizabeth he seems to be hers,
but the fact is he happens to be
Mrs. Guzzard’s. The wisest
remark in the play is made by
Mrs. Guzzard, who points out
that it doesn’t matter who he
is; it is what he is and what
he desires that are important —
his alleged father wants him to
be a big businessman like him-
self, but he wants to be an
organist in a little Noncon-
formist chapel.
If Mr. Eliot’s characters don’t
live, his idea does, and if that
was all he wanted to do he was
thoroughly successful. John
Davidson, Marcel Cugola, Hugh
McDermott, Bruce Clarkson,
Sylvia Reid, Lesley Stuart-Taylor
and Meg Smith “were equally
successful in putting the idea
over, especially Lesley Stuart-
Taylor, as the bewildered Lady
Elizabeth, and John Davidson,
as the devastated father who is
not a father.
M. G. S.
“Can-Can”
Despite the programme’s
assurance that Mr. Cole Porter
spends a large part of his time
in Paris, his latest musical-
comedy, the current J.C.W.
offering in Brisbane, shows that
he has caught little more of that
city than the fleeting 35mm.
tourist-camera is able to trap.
“Can-Can” is as significantly
American as the Statue of
Liberty, despite the French
origin of both of them.
Imaginatively produced, and
with sets vividly recalling at
least the geography of Paris,
1893, the script shows a most
un-French preoccupation with
the “morals” of the title-dance,
with the result that the male
lead, though admirably sung by
William Newman, is never for a
moment acceptable as a young
French judge, but 'rather as a
delegate to an evangelical con-
ference. And, for all her French
parentage, Sheila Arnaud often
lapsed into the Hollywood tradi-
tion of a honky-tonk madam.
Once the piece is accepted as
an American musical about
Paris these may be regarded as
minor points, but they made
restless bedfellows alongside the
authentic spirited dancing and
choreography of Eleonore
Treiber and the superb comic
Bohemian roles enriched by the
presence of Eric Reiman and
Graeme Bent. These two players,
with Miles. Treiber and Arnaud
at their best, high-kicked “Can-
Can” to immediate success.
In the complexity of 17 rapid
scene-changes it was perhaps
only human that a couple of
scene-shifters were caught on
%tage by the ruthless ascending
curtain and had to be ignored,
in the best Chinese-theatre tradi-
tion, as irrelevant to the action.
V.V.
Artbursts
Max Ragless
Too many of his oils, coarse in
paint and without feeling for the
textures of earth, and too few
of his watercolors, which, if
sometimes posterish, have always
a clear-cut masculine boldness,
make a disappointing show by
Max Ragless at David Jones’,
Sydney.
The sort of thing he does best
is the watercolor “Coff’s
Harbor”: boats, clouds, water,
an island, old sheds and houses
bathed in sunlight, in total effect
rather a pleasant short-story
about fishermen oi; watery
industry. And if it is generally
thought wicked for a painting to
have narrative and descriptive
interest these days, this has also
a vivid strength that makes it
art.
<& ❖ *
Murch
Also at David Jones’ is a small
show, mostly of small oils, by
Arthur Murch. All, in varying
degrees, have his distiuctive
quality: which is concentrated at
its best in two of the smaller
pieces, a girl in bed with yellow
hair and a yellow bed-wrap, and
a beautifully-modelled nude
sitting on a rock.
* * *
Bob Dickerson
Expressionist painter Bob
Dickerson follows expressionist
painter Charles Blackman at the
Gallery of Contemporary Art in
Melbourne, and the one exhibi-
tion is so like the other that it
is difficult to decide whether Mr.
Dickerson is derivative of Mr.
Blackman or Mr. Blackman
derivative of Mr. Dickerson.
Neither of them is derivative
of Nature, however. Mr. Dicker-
son’s pictures are not only very
like Mr. Blackman’s but they
are also very like one another.
He paints children, patients
lying in sick-beds and young men
standing at street-corners, and
they all have the same sad ex-
pressions, the same abnormally
dilated eyeballs and the same
pallid complexions. And all,
both sick and healthy, give the
same impression—that in the ex-
pressionist world pernicious
anaemia is endemic.
One can’t help wondering why
the artist only paints the one
mood of blank dejection. Is it
because he isn’t interested in any
other, or i§ he, perchance, in the
position of the Chinese artist
who coulcT only draw figures
walking in the one direction?
The Chinese painter was so
good at this that he was in great
demand for drawing funerals
and wedding-processions, police-
men chasing thieves, horseraces
and audiences entering theatres,
but he was quite incapable of
depicting love-scenes, battles and
boxing-matches. By always refus-
ing commissions of this nature he
was able successfully to conceal
his defect, lived to a ripe old
age and died extremely wealthy.
* * ♦>
The chief charm of Paul
Schneider’s pastel paintings at
the Victorian Artists’ Society
lies in the lovely old Tasmanian
homesteads, barns rand stables
(one of which he lives in). It is
obvious from his pictures that he
has felt them more than he does
his landscapes. He catches the
sunlight falling on the white walls
better than he does on the
gumtrees. “Courtyard Gate,
Entally” and “Hexagon Gate,
Hagley” are the pleasantest
examples.
Edgecombe Exhibition
It is over two years since
Harry Edgecombe died, leaving
a great many lovely pictures. He
is, of course, represented in both
the Sydney and Brisbane
National Galleries.
We have just sold enough
privately to enable us to finance
the framing of some of the best
for a memorial exhibition, which
will be held in the School of
Arts, Beecroft (N.S/W.), on
September 15 and 16.
Mr. Stan Cross will open the
show at 3 p.m. The pictures
were selected by Mr. Rufus
Morris.
JEAN EDGECOMBE.
Talkies
“Artists and Models'’ (Sydney
Capitol): Comedians Dean
Martin and Jerry Lewis get in
some hearty side-swipes at the
writers of horror-comics for kids
in this hilarious confection.
Martin is an impecunious artist;
Lewis would like to write comic-
strip plots. Lewis’s habitual
running - commentaries while
having horrific nightmares gives
Martin his material, which
includes a secret formula for
space-ship fuel which strangely
coincides with that of the U.S.
Army, thus sparking-off a spy-
hunt. The fun never slackens.


Miracle at Mulataroo
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
hall, there was still the cost. A
hundred-thousand pounds isn’t
that easy to raise in a town of
five-thousand people. Still, he
wasn’t discouraged, and was
eager to listen to any new scheme
that would help, when Ziska
came to Mulataroo.
“yISKA was one of a bunch
of New Australians who
were sent to our town to work
on the railway maintenance-
gangs. For some reason they
were split-up, and one or two
sent to each gang. That was
how I got to know Ziska.
“None of the men were very
keen on having a foreigner work-
ing with them, and for the first
few days they said hardly a word
to him. But I thought he looked
a nice little chap right from the
start.
“He wasn’t like what I’d
expected. He was quite young
and almost boyish-looking, with
fair, curly hair and a soft inno-
cent face. His eyes nearly always
looked worried or frightened,
though when he was pleased or
excited they’d shine in a way that
surprised you.
“I started talking to him
because I was sorry for him, and
he was so pleased at having a
bit of friendliness that I was
very glad I’d done it. In fact,
it wasn’t so very long before I
arranged for him to share my
room at the boardinghouse.
He’d been forced to live in a tent
and cook his own rqeals and was
very lonely and uncomfortable.
“He was a good man to share
a room with ; very polite and
considerate and never trying to
throw his weijght about. Some-
DURING the night I woke
to find the train stand-
ing at a station. Outside,
the moon was shining
brightly on a town which —
although I knew most of the
places along the line —had a
remote, uninhabitable look. It
was hard to imagine people
willingly living there.
The stationmaster, an in-
distinct, muffled figure in his dark
overcoat, waved a lantern. A
blast of the siren bounced sharply
back from the near-by hills, then
the train jerked into motion.
I was just about to settle back
to sleep when a man came sway-
ing down the corridor and into
my compartment. He looked a
decent sort of working man, but
I made no move, prepared to let
him think I was asleep—l have
known strangers | to talk relent-
lessly throughout the night if
given the slightest encourage-
ment ; trying desperately, it
seemed, to hold-off the demon
of loneliness who pressed them
more closely the farther they
went from their home-towns.
But the man ignored me. He
dropped his suitcase onto the
seat and hurried to the
window. He gave the impression
of being excited and greatly
disturbed. Lit by a bright light
on the platform, his face
startled me with its sorrow.
Suddenly he gave a sharp
exclamation.
“Look, that’s the place!
Quick! You’ll never see any-
thing like this again.”
His voice was so urgent and
imperative that I hurried to the
window. I could see nothing
remarkable.
/‘Look at that block between
the two lots of shops.”
“I can’t see anything except
a big, long heap of bricks or
something.”
He nodded.
“A miracle happened there,”
he said.
I eyed him cautiously. He had
a slightly fanatical look about
him, though apart from that his
face was pleasant, and even kind.
Still, one could never be sure
from appearances.
Then the conductor came into
the compartment, and the man
showed him a pass. They ex-
changed a few words of railway
shop-talk ; it made me feel quite
foolish. Nothing could be more
commonplace and reassuring
than a railwayman travelling
free on the State’s unprofitable
system.
A S soon as the conductor had
gone, the man turned back
to me with his previous intensity.
“Mulataroo could have been
the most famous town in Aus-
tralia if it hadn’t been for sqme
of the municipal councillors.”
He watched me sombrely for
a while, as if expecting some
comment; but if there is one
thing I object to more than any-
thing else it is being bored with
small-town politics. J made
tentative moves towards settling-
down to sleep.
“You might have heard some-
thing of the goings-on here
lately?” he suggested expectantly.
“I’m sorry,” I said, “but I’ve
come from a long way. I didn’t
even know there was a town
called Mulataroo.”
“Well,” he said deliberately,
leaning forward and setting his
heavy hands on his knees, “I’d
like to tell you about it. But
what a shame it is that you
have to learn about it this way.
If things hadn’t gone wrong it
would have been in every news-
paper in Australia —and the best
‘friend I ever had would have
been still alive.”
His face was tragic again ; so
pitiful that it disarmed me.
“Was there an accident?” I
asked him.
“No, not an accident really.
But you probably wouldn’t
believe it.”
“You’d better tell me about
it,” I said.
“I hardly know where to
start. . .”
“You said something about .
the municipal councillors,” I
prompted him.
“Oh, yes. It was started by the
council; or really the mayor.
For a long time he’d been very
keen on having a town-hall in
Mulataroo; but he had a clique
up against him who were always
screaming that it would cost too
much for what we’d get out
of it.
“The man at the head of the
clique, a fellow called Jones, was
against it because he didn’t wan*
the mayor to get any glory. Foi
nearly twenty years he’d been
ambitious to be mayor himself,
and he hated Meredith for always
beating him. He managed to get
enough support \n the council to
block the mayor there, but
Meredith wouldn’t let it rest. He
was always working on the
people, bringing up new schemes
for raising the money, writing
letters to the paper and getting it
talked about, hoping that in the
end the opposition would have
to give-in to public demand.
“Yet, though he was a real live-
wire, and welli liked, and had
convinced most of the people
that they ought to have a town-
times he talked in his sleep in an
excited sort of way, and when
I went over to calm him (I didn’t
want anyone complaining about
him making noises at night) I’d
find him sweating and shaking
as if he had a fever.
“But he’d tell me he’d been
dreaming of the things he’d been
through When he’d been a
prisoner, first of the Russians
and then the Germans; when
he’d never been sure that any
day he wouldn’t be taken out
and shot, because the slightest
unusual thing you did made
them suspect you of being a spy.
I used to spend hours sitting on
his bed N waiting for him to calm
down. It seemed to help him
a lot to have someone to talk to.
“Even when the war was over
he’d had a lot of strain. The
Americans were always question,
ing him because he’d been a
prisoner of both sides, and draft-
ing him from one group into
another, until it got that way he
was terrified to say a word or
they’d shout at him that he'd
said something else at another
interview. The worst of it was
that after the interviews there
was nearly always a bunch
handed over to the Russians, and
the story was that they ‘were
always shot. You never knew
what answer it was that decided
them to hand you over to the
Russians. '
“But, apart from keeping me
awake, which I didn't really
mind because I reckon it does
a man good to find out what
others have been through, I
didn’t notice anything odd about


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
assess
• aws-s
i
: • \
tma
m
mim.
*SS3SBSS
n
x::x>
f
V -ss-VS 'ii '•'" f
m
w$
i Mi
.• •
HR
ft
SSSSS-:
a : ■
1 fi
SWS
1
6m
mmm
MM
SSKSf:
m
■■ a
Sir Walter Merriman (second from left) being congratulated by one of
the three judges after winning the Merino Ram Grand Championship.
Sir Walter says: “I have used Ampol Products on my several properties for
years and am convinced that not only Ampol Motor Spirit, but Ampol Kerosines,
Distillate and Oils meet the high standards required by the Primary Producing Indus-
try. 1 find that Ampol’s renowned Service extends beyond their Service Stations
to “The Man on the Land” through the friendly efficiency of their Country Agents ”
Use the best . . . Australia's own
Hi'
NlHn
Hi
o ©
□
POWER KEROSINE
Plug Ampol Distillate t Lighting Kerosine
• Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFM.i9.aa
him until one day he started
talking about the town-hall.
“ ‘Bill,’ he said to me, with
those big earnest eyes of his
watching me, ‘I do much thinking
after I come to Mulataroo. Now
I believe I can make a new town-
hall for your mayor.’
“Well, I asked him what he
meant, and he told me a strange
story about his home-town in
Europe. J
“ ‘ln Czestova,’ he said, ‘is not
much people, but very beautiful
and big town-hall; but that is not
all. It is a. very wonderful town ■
hall because it was built in one
night without the costing of any
money. No, do not look at me
unbelieving. It is writ large on
a big stone for all to see. It
happen many hundreds of years
ago, but everyone in Czestova
believe it, and everyone in my
whole country.’
“nrHEN Ziska went on to tell
A me how his home-town got
its town-hall. ‘ln Czestova so
many long ago is no town-hall,
but people want very much to
hear opera and to see plays, but
there is no place. But once come
a man with a wonderful idea. A
man from another country who
speaks not our language very
well He say to them, You
people of Czestova, you want
very much a town-hall. I will
build you a town-hall for no
money. Tonight is the night of
the full moon, and the night for
wonderful things to happen. If
tonight come' all the people, man,
woman and children, and every-
one bring one big stone at the
time of the rise of the moon,
and believe what I say, you shall
have your town-hall. When the
moon begins to see over the hills,
then every man look in his face
‘shout very loud, Harka!, and
drop stone. Then in one minute
will be a beautiful town-hall . ..
“ ‘And,’ said Ziska, ‘they do it.
And that night they get a beauti-
ful town-hall made of * stone
which stands for many hundreds
of years, to this day.’
“I began td see what he was
getting-at,” my railwayman went
on, “and it made me worry about
what would happen if the rest
of the gang heard him talking
like that. So I said, ‘That was
a very long time ago, Ziska.
Things like that don’t happen
nowadays,’ But his eyes started
to glow in a very excited way:
‘Bill, Bill, I tell you. I have
wonderful strong feeling here in
my chest. Every time J hear
people talk about wanting a
town-hall in Mulataroo and not
enough money, my heart say to
me: Ziska, you can make town-
hall for Mulataroo like was
made the town-hall for Czestova.’
“ ‘Now, Ziska,’ I said to him,
‘things like that don’t happen in
Australia. When we want a
town-hall we have to raise a lot
of money and do a lot of hard
work.’ But he wouldn’t listen to
reason. ‘Bill, you see! I am
strange man who cannot speak
very well the Australian
language, and I come to
Mulataroo when everyone want
town-hall and have no money ;
just like in Czestova. Ha, you
see, Bill! I come in very good
time! ’
“Well, he’d got the idea that
he could build a town-hall by
magic or faith or something, and
he wanted me to tell the mayor
about it. I couldn’t talk him out
of it, so at last, just to please
him, I promised I’d have a word
with the mayor. That happened
to be fairly easy. Sometimes 1
used to do a bit of gardening
for the mayor at weekends ; and,
since he was a nice friendly bloke
who often came and had a chat
to me, I soon had a chance to
tell him about Ziska.
“I was surprised to find how
interested he was ; I thought he
would have just reckoned it was
old fairytale stuff. But in a way
he was a lot like Ziska ; full of
enthusiasm, and not likely to
take enough notice of the
obstacles. He got quite excited,
and marched up and down the
garden path with his arms jerking
as he asked me about Ziska’s
town-hall. ‘I must have a talk
with Ziska,’ he said.
“When I told Ziska about that
he was as triumphant as if his
town-hall was already well on the
way. He wanted to know all
about the mayor and his family,
and when I told him that he had
a good-looking young daughter
about Ziska’s age, he shouted
with joy. ‘So it is yet even more
like in Czestova. There the
mayor have a beautiful daughter
who marry the strange man who
make the town-hall, and he is the
most important man in the town
next to the mayor. Ha, very
soon I no longer Blasted Balt
and Bloody New Australian,
When I make the town-hall I
next important man in Mula-
l aroo >
“I warned him that it wasn’t
likely that the mayor would be
willing to try his scheme, and
that people in Australia didn’t
believe in miracles. But after
thinking about it for half-a-day
he brightened up again and said,
‘Bill, now I have another idea.
When the Lord M a yor come to
see jme I will show him some-
thing which will make him
believe I can make a town-hall.’
But he wouldn’t tell me what it
was. Just asked me to arrange,
if I could, to have the mayor
call and see him during the
lunch-time break on the job. I
didn’t think that would be a
good time for the mayor, or for
him, with the more-or-less
hostile gang around, but he
wanted it that way, and since
the mayor was willing, I
arranged it.
“ r T"'HE mayor turned-up all
bright, and he brought his
wife and daughter, too. When
Ziska saw Muriel he was so
dazzled that I thought the town-
hall would go right out of his
head. But he behaved very
politely to the mayor and his
wife, giving them a lot more
respect than they ever got from
the locals; and, though he kept
telling Muriel she was the most
beaut iful girl in Australia, 'and
looking at her as if he could
hardl .y think of anything else,
t look as if she objected,
“He told them the story about
the town-hall at Czestova, though
with more details, and the funny
thing abqpt it was that it didn't
sound as impossible to me as I’d
been thinking.
“Muriel clapped her hands and
said what a lovely story it was.
Her mother was pretty cool
about it, and wanted to know
if he thought he was a good-
enough magician to do the same
thing for Mulataroo. The mayor
watched Ziska in a very affec-
tionate way. I could see that
he’d made a big hit with his
enthusiasm for a town-hall.
“ ‘You know,’ he said to Ziska,
‘you almost make me believe
that it would be possible to work
a miracle if we got everybody
to believe in it. But we’ve got
some pretty hard heads in Mula-
taroo, particularly in the
council.’
“But that didn’t discourage
Ziska. He was just waiting,
rea dy with his next idea. /"Mr.
Lord Mayor, when I show you
something that make you
believe; then you make all
Mulataroo believe, then all is
accomplished. But first I will
tell you another old story about
my country,
“‘in the old days in Czestova
j s great man like mayor in big
house, and every day in winter
when is big famine, many
hungry people come to beg*for
eat. But too many people come
and famine is too long and in the
big house is no food left. And
one day comes hungry boy who
have no food for two days, and
he sits on this house-step and
eat a stone, he is so hungry. Then
along come along one other boy
who is more big, and he see the
little boy eat and he say, You
give me eat... And the little boy
say, Is no fopd, it is stone,
“‘But the big boy no believe,
and he fight the little boy and
take his stone away. Then the
grand lady of the house, she see
hungry boys fight for stone to
eat, and she say, You bring the
stone to my kitchen and I will
cook it, and then is enough for
two. . .
“ ‘And they go in the grand
kitchen and the lady put water on
stove and when it boil she put in
the stone, and in one minute is
food, lovely food like soup, with
carrot and barley and meat, and
two boys eat, and lady eat, and
no more is hungry.’
“Muriel clapped her hands
a § a,n and said, What a beautiful
story! Mrs. Meredith said, Its
a f alr ytale.
“But the mayor, who was too
(Continued on next page )


CLEAR 5 ACRES AN HOUR
Patent No. 156596
»
s/Asm
Of6POWTHf
REAPm PROMTS
Kou&eui/Mo
OPERATING COSTS ONLY I/- AN ACRE!
• Fits any tractor P.T.O. Clears an
Bft. strip.
• High tensile Manganese alloy steel
chains harden with use.
• Adjustable friction type coupling
cushions shock loads.
• Price only £l9B F.0.R., F. 0.8., all
capital cities.
• The “Arthur” Rotary Slasher
will clear 5 to 7 acres an hour,
even in tough, dense growth and
operating costs average only 7/6
an hour! Bring YOUR pest-
smothered land into production in
one season !.... increase your land
values overnight! Arrange a
demonstration with your nearest
Distributor 1
DSON
Write to the Manufacturers for Illustrated Literature
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South RcL, Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS—S. A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Power Plant Ltd. VIC.: Moore
Road Machinery Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: Wigmores Ltd.;
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lideombe; British Tractors
Pty. Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day and Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle
Motors, Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. Export Enquiries to Manufacturers.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
■
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
vtSl
Thanks to
NEO-
barrere
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your henna
■with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successfu
all who have tried It. _
Write today for FREE LITERATIR
barrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3u), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
decent a man to want to hurt
Ziska's feelings if he could
possibly help it, said, ‘I see what
your’e getting at. Well, you only
need to give me something that
will convince people, and I’ll be
with you all the way. Mind you,
though, it will need to be some-
thing pretty good.’ And Ziska
said quite eagerly, ‘Yes, Mr.
Lord Mayor, I show you and
then you believe, and your
Madam Mayor believe, and the
beautiful lady Miss Muriel and
Bill believe too.’
“We all looked at'each other
and at Ziska, but he gave a bow
in his polite Continental way and
§aid, ‘Please to follow me, and
I will show you.’ Then he led
us to where the men were boiling
their billies over a fire.
“TTHE men stared pretty hard ;
they didn’t take too kindly
to having their meal-break
interrupted.
“But Ziska wasn’t shy or
frightened any longer. ‘ls any
of you very hungry?’ he asked.
At first I didn’t think they were
going to take any notice of him,
but with the visitors there they
didn’t want to be rude, I suppose,
and so one of them said, 'Jack is ;
he lost his dinner on the way
out.’
“Ziska turned to the mayor,
and his face was*alight like an
eager little boy’s. ‘Now it will
happen for sure because there is
a hungry man here in need.’
Then he said to me, quite
briskly, ‘Bill, you pick up one
of those little stones near your
feet; a nice clean one. Now
give it to me.’ He held it up
for everyone to see, between his
thumb and second-finger. Then
he said, ‘Now, Jack, is this your
billy of hot-water. Yes? Then
you all watch me. I drop the
nice clean stone in the water, and
in a few minutes it is no longer
hot-water but rich, lovely thick
soup full of meat and vegetables.’
“The funny thing was that
nobody laughed. Ziska was so
full of confidence, and his face
so alight and eager .that he some-
how made all of us respect him.
The gang, not knowing exactly
what it was about, all gaped with
their mouths open ; the mayor
stood there tremendously keen
and interested; his wife was
watchful, and I could see Muriel
getting greatly excited.
“I was sure it couldn’t happen
the way Ziska said it would, and
I was terribly worried about how
he was going to feel. But he was
smiling to himself as he put the
lid back on the billy, and waited
without saying a word. Suddenly
he pulled the lid off again, and
took the billy over to the mayor.
“The mayor had a long, hard
look as if he couldn’t believe his
eyes. Then he said, quite softly,
‘My God, you’ve done it, Ziska! ’
Mrs. Meredith stared into the
billy, and had a good sniff too,
was convinced. ‘How
did you manage it?’ she wanted
to know. But Muriel just looked
at Ziska with her eyes as bright
“Figurehead by Epstein."
as his, and she said, ‘You per-
formed a miracle!’ You could
see that she thought he was
wonderful; but she looked a bit
frightened, too.
“And it was a miracle. We all
saw that he had only a pebble
and a billy of water; and yet,
there was the wonderful, rich
stew, full of meat and vegetables,
like he said it would be. None
of ihe gang said a word ; they
were so astonished.”
TV/TY railwayman gave me a
long, hard scrutiny. I
could see that he believed he
had seen a miracle, and I was
not entirely surprised. In my
contacts with country laboring-
people I have frequently come
across men who are quite pre-
pared to believe in magic. In
fact, that is the reason they are
so fond of conjuring-shows.
Remembering this, I did not
show my doubts to the railway-
man. If he liked to believe he’d
seen a miracle, I’d be the last
to disillusion him. After all, most
people believe in some form of
magic, even though they call it
by many different names.
So I just said, “And what
about the mayor and his wife?
Were they convinced?”
“Of course,” he said, “there
was no getting out of it.”
“Well, what happened next?”
He seemed reluctant to con-
tinue.' Suddenly he turned to me
quite fiercely, and began to speak
rapidly with a tearful break in
his voice.
“He’s dead, back there. You
don’t think I’d make-up a lob of
lies about him when he’s dead?
He was the best friend I ever
had.”
“No,” I said deliberately, “I
don’t think you would.”
He was mollified now, but still
troubled by his difficulties. He
furrowed his brow and twisted
his mouth with the intensity of
his thinking.
“The mayor was great,” he
said with a sudden burst of
enthusiasm. “Everything he did
was right, from the very begin-
ning. No one can ever blame
him for what happened. He
knew it would be no good taking
Ziska’s scheme to the council,
with Jones and Oregon in, it,
but he organised a monster
public-meeting, where he got
Ziska to tell his story of how
the people of Czestova got their
town-hall.
“Of course, by this time every-
one had heard about Ziska and
the miracle he had performed
with the billy of hot water and
the stone ; and after they’d heard
him address the meeting most of
them didn’t have any doubt that
what he told them was true.
“Then, while they were still
all excited, the mayor told them
that they could have a wonderful
town-hall, too, at the next full
moon, if they had the faith of the
people of Czestova, and if each
was as determined to do what
he could. He got the crowd so
stirred-up that, when the meet-
ing was over, instead of the
people going home to bed, they
wandered through the streets,
their minds made-up to choose
a site for the new town-hall, then
and there.
“They picked on a big, empty
block near the centre of the town
where the old School of Arts had
been burnt-down a couple of
years ago. It was all overgrown
with burrs and thistles and all
kinds of weeds, but they were
so excited that in less than half-
an-hour they had cleared it, most
of them using only their bare
hands.
“Next morning everybody was
astonished to find that the block
had been levelled and smoothed ;
done by a team of soil-
conservation men with a bull-
dozer, who’d got up a couple
of hours early to do it before
they went to work. That after-
noon the mayor had a plan of
the town-hall ready, and every-
one who knew anything about
laying-out a building was there
to help him peg-out the dimen-
sions. As soon as they got it
right the railway-gangs started
with picks and shovels, digging
trenches for the foundations.
Everyone who saw them rushed
home to get their tools, so that
the job was done by midnight —
some electricians had rigged-up
floodlights as soon as they saw
what was going to happen. And
that was the way it went on.
“One man gave the materials
for the foundations, another
brought his concrete-mixers, and
the crowd did the work. A few
of the big businessmen and the
owner of the brickyard gave the
bricks, and anyone who owned
a motor-lorry helped to cart them
to the site. Lots of people gave
up their jobs, and all the
business-houses that could do it
closed-down so that all the hands
and the owners could give their
full time to the town-hall. Men
who hardly knew how to hammer
a nail became expert carpenters,
and . everyone enjoyed himself
enormously learning how to lay
bricks, saw timber and put on
roofing-tiles.
OF course Jones and Oregon
and their clique had to
make trouble.
“They said it was niiadness
starting the building before they
had legally acquired the land
they were putting it on: they
declared it was illegal to proceed
before' the council had approved
the building; they tried to start
trouble about employing non-
union labor, and people doing
more than one job. They even
made an attempt to have it
stopped by law until all the red-
tape was tied.
“But nobody took any notice
of them, and the building kept
going up at an unbelievable
speed. Then they tried to start
a panic by saying that because it
was being put up so quickly and
by unskilled labor the walls
were sure to collapse and that
if the building were finished, it
would come down the first time
there was a bit of an earth-
tremor. Everybody just laughed
at that.
“Bank-clerks and shop-
assistants got their hands as hard
and horny as navvies, and stout
businessmen got their weight
down to normal. The members
of the dramatic-society built the
stage and the dressing-rooms just
as they wanted them for their
shows; and the young people
who wanted the hall for dances
put down the floor with par-
ticular care and sanded it smooth
as a mirror. The ladies designed
the supper-room to be the last
word in convenience, and anyone
who thought the hall should have
this or that extra just came along
and built it in.
“At first I believe that Ziska
was just a iittle bit disappointed
that they were not going to do
it his way, but when I explained
to him how miraculous it was to
have Australians putting their
souls into an unpaid job like this,
he joined in and became the most
eager worker of them .all. The
mayor made a great fuss of
him, and often had him up at
his house ; and Muriel took him
about in her little sports-car.
“You could never believe how
quickly we got things done, but
the most wonderful thing of all
was that there were never any
disputes or arguments, like there
always are on any dther work-
ing-bee. The whole thing was a
miracle. Nearly as big a miracle
as the one in Czestova, the way
that building went up ; and the
last nail was driven and the last
lick of paint put on in the
evening of the full moon.
“"IT7HEN the full moon came
* * up and shone on the town-
hall it had never shone on
before, everyone in the town,
men, women and children, came
to look at it and admire it.
“It was a very beautiful build-
ing because nobody had to
worry about the expense. It
didn’t have to be cut down and
made plain and ugly because
there wasn’t enough money to
do the thing in style, the way it
usually happens in country
towns. It was like those wonder-
ful big buildings, you see in
photos of big cities in Europe.
“The people who’d worked so
hard and thought of nothing
else could hardly believe the
town-hall was finished. They
realised gradually that they’d
been in a sort of frenzy; they
knew that if they’d been normal
it wouldn’t have been possible
to put up a hundred-thousand-
pound-building in less than a
month.. They knew that it was
due to Ziska, and they gave him
the credit. They were shaking
his hand and congratulating him,
and laughing and crying, because
they’d helped in performing a
miracle.”
The railwayman paused to
watch how I was taking it. He’d


HOLDEN UTILmC
leads in sa,< *
because it te the
. biggest value
<*»a
fl|
•:-:-:*&.v«y.v.v*v. ••••<•:•
:-: -•-
Official registration figures prove
Holden Utility’s outstanding popu-
larity. The totals just released for Australian
registrations during the first six months
of 1956 are:
HOLDEN UTILITY .. 7,752
Utility B 2,195 Utility D .... 1,177
Utility C .... 1,473 Utility E 1,081
Holden is Australia’s most popular Utility
because it is the one utility designed and
built expressly for Australian conditions;
because only Holden offers you at a low list
price the perfect combination for Australia
of 6-cylinder, 21 h.p. performance, generous
751" long load space and exceptional
durability and outstanding dependability
reported by so many owners from every
part of the country.
And the good-looking Holden Utility has
won acceptance, too, for high re-sale value,
servicing ease and ready availability of
low-cost, factory-guaranteed spare parts
throughout Australia.
See your Holden Dealer today
Let him prove to you Holden Utility can do
your job, carry your loads. Drive Holden
Utility yourself and you, too, will be
convinced Holden is beyond all doubt
Australia’s finest utility buy.
HOLDEN*S UNMATCHED
COMBINATION OF VALUE
FEATURES
• 6 'cylinder, 21 h.p. “ square ” engine per-
formance. • Outstanding dependability and
petrol economy, with many owners re-
porting 30 m.p.g. • Passenger car comfort
and ease of handling—turning circle only
37 feet. • Generous pay-load area—7s|"
floor length. • Nation-wide availability of
specialised service and low-priced, factory-
guaranteed parts. • High resale value.
HQLDEN* Australia’s Own Utility
♦Registered
Trade Mark,
List Price £B5O plus tax. Australia’s Own Panel Van. List Price £865 plus tax.
Convenient GMAC hire purchase available. ‘Air Chief’ car radio is specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD* Brisbane "Sydney •Melbourne* Adelaide *Perth
: Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia Ul9O
been so full of his enthusiasm
that he’d forgotten my doubts.
But all the time he’d been talking
about the miraculous accom-
plishment I’d been remembering
that what I’d seen on the block
of land at Mulataroo was only
a heap of bricks ...
He saw the disbelief on my
face, and his own became dis-
torted with anger. He leaned
close to me and shouted:
“You don’t believe me! You
think I made it up. You think
I’m mad!”
“No, no,” I said, anxious to
pacify him. “It’s such an
unusual story. I’m so astonished
I don’t know what to think.”
But he had jumped up and
stood before me, waving his
arms about and his face twisted
in an agony.
“You’re like Jones and
Oregon,” he said furiously.
“You’ve got no soul. You’ve
got no sympathy. I won’t tell
you the rest. I can’t bear the
sight of you!”
He hurried out of the com-
partment and disappeared along
the corridor. For a few minutes
I sat there, feeling quite discon-
certed ; his demeanor had been
so convincing, and it was so
obvious that he had believed
what he was telling me, that he
made me feel I had done him a
dreadful injury.
YET what could a reasonable
-*■ man make of him and his
incredible story? 1 got up to
find him. In the corridor I met
the conductor.
“Ah, conductor,” I said, “that
chap who was in my compart-
ment —do you know him very
well?”'
“Why, yes,” the conductor
replied. “You mean Jim
Hannah? Often see him when I
go up and down the line.”
He treated it as such a matter-
of-fact, everyday detail that I
hardly knew how to put my
question.
“What sort of a man is he?
Is he all right?”
“Why, yes, of course. Decent
bloke, Jim. If anything he’s
too decent. Always worrying
himself about someone or
other.”
I thanked him. “That’s what
I thought,” I said. “Do you
know where he went? He looked
a bit unwell.”
“He’s down that end, looking
out of the window.”
I found him and put my hand
on his shoulder.
“Come and tell me the rest,
Jim,” I said, as kindly as I could.
He looked me carefully in the
face, and, apparently deciding
that at least I wa§ not unsympa-
thetic, he came back to the
compartment.
“After everybody had finished
looking at the town-hall and
thanking Ziska,” he continued,
“the mayor called them round to
the entrance and made a speech.
He thanked them for the magni-
ficent work they had done, and
told them of the great opening-
celebration he planned, with a
lot of important people, news-
paper- photographers and
press- and radio-reporters. It
would make Mulataroo famous
all over Australia when the news
got out of its wonderful town-
hall and the miraculous way in
which it had been built.
“Then he turned to Ziska and
in front of everybody he gave
him full credit for having made
the town-hall possible. The
crowd clapped and cheered
wildly.
“Up till then Ziska had been
very modest about his share in
the building; a bit shy about
accepting all the thanks and con-
gratulations he’d been getting. In
fact, if Muriel hadn’t watched
and held his arm I believe he
would have slipped away. But
the crowd’s cheering did some-
thing to him; it excited him so
much that he suddenly lost all
his shyness and modesty. You
could see by his face that all at
once he believed all the mayor
was saying about him.
“He faced round to the town-
hall, and threw up his arms in
admiration of it, as if he was
appreciating all that it meant for
the first time. Then he shouted.
‘My beautiful town-hall. I have
made a wonderful town-hall for
Mulataroo, like was made in
Czestova! ’
“Then he turned to Muriel,
and put his arms around her and
said, ‘Now 1 shall marry you and
be the next most important man
in Mulataroo ; and I will have
plenty of money to make you
live like a princess.’
“The crowd gave another
cheer, bigger than the last. The
inayor went and stood between
Muriel and Ziska and put an
arm round each of them, the
way they do in the films. ‘We’ll
look after you, I promise you
that, my boy. I don’t know just
how we’ll reward you, or what
sort of a position we’ll get you.
But we’ll remember that We’re
your debtors for ever.’
“The crowd cheered louder
and louder, and Ziska and
Muriel bowed to them and
smiled at each other.
“’THEN, though I couldn’t
A really believe it after what
had happened, I saw Jones and
Oregon moving-in to make
trouble.
“ ‘Mr. Mayor,’ said Jones, in
a loud sarcastic voice, ‘as a
. matter of fact you’ll find there is
no legal way in which you can
reward this man from council-
funds ; and as' for getting him a
position of profit on the staff,
that’s out too. We’ve looked
into his qualifications, and he
hasn’t got any.’
“Ziska spun round as if he’d
been bayoneted in the back by
one of his prison-guards. It was
awful to see the happy look
disappear from his face, and the
dreadful, terrified one come
back that he used to have when
he woke up trembling at night.
“The crowd began to mutter
angrily against Jones and
Oregon. They came surging
around as if they weren’t in the
mood to put up with this kind of
black ingratitude.
“ ‘We’ll find a way,’ the mayor
. said. ‘lf the council can’t, the
citizens of Mulataroo will.
They’ve got some sense of
gratitude.’ ■, ,
“Someone in the crowd
shouted, ‘We’ll look after you!’
and another one said, ‘You can
marry your princess, and live
happily ever after.’
* “Ziska tried to smile at them,
but I could see him shaking from
the shock he’d got.
“Then Jones pulled a packet
of long official papers out of his
pocket and waved it threaten-
ingly at Ziska. ‘He can’t marry
the girl,’ he said. ‘He’s married
already, to some foreign
woman.’
“Ziska yelled back, ‘l’m not
married! ’ in almost a scream.
“I could see that he was speak-
ing the truth, and Muriel, though
she looked upset, still hung on
to his arm. But I was disgusted
and ashamed to see some of the
crowd already beginning to go
against him. I squeezed through
them and got alongside Ziska.
“Jones yelled out, ‘lt’s here in
official papers from the
Immigration Department!’ and
he shook the papers over the
heads of the people around him.
“There was an angry yell from
the part of the crowd that was
turning on Ziska. I took him
by the arm. His face had gone
deadly pale, and he seemed so
horrified that he couldn’t do
anything.
“I gave him a little shake.
‘You’ll have to tell them! You’ll
have to explain! ’
“But he just stood there. I
could feel that to him it was like
some of the dreadful things that
happened in Europe.
“ ‘Here’s her name!’ Oregon
shouted, and read out a long
foreign name I can’t remember.
“But Ziska recognised it, and
his expression changed as if he
could suddenly see a way of
making things right. He faced
the crowd more confidently and
held up a hand for silence.
“ ‘I shall tell you,’ Ziska said,
‘it is nothing. That was the name
of a woman who was in the same
Displaced Persons camp with me
in Germany. She was terrified
the Americans should send her
back to the Russians, because
she was of Estonia, and left it
when the Russians take her
country. (
“‘A man who said he yvill
marry her left her behind in the
camp when he can get out as a
single man. Next, when they let
out married couples only she beg
me to let her put down my name
as her husband on her paper,
just so she could get out. I
agree, so I can get out too.
Nobody thinks it is wrong to do
that. We have to do it to save
our lives. As soon as we get out
that woman finds her man wait-
ing for her. I forget all about
it. Soon I get into other
trouble.’
“He turned to Muriel then and
said gently, ‘You see, my lovely
lady, it is nothing.’
“But Muriel let go his arm and
put her hands over her face and
started to cry. I think it was
because she was upset by the
horrible situation, and not that
she didn’t believe him.
“Some of the crowd took it
the wrong way and started to
hoot. Then Mrs. Meredith came
stalking through the crowd. She
took Muriel by the arm, without
giving Ziska a glance, and led
her away. ,
“I think Muriel was too
puzzled by all that was going on
to think of resisting. But poor
Ziska was sure that she was
abandoning him for ever. I
tried to keep him calm. I held
on to him and told him it would
all be right if he went and had a
quiet talk to the Merediths in the
morning. But he was quite
frantic. He pushed me away,
and started to shout wildly. ‘You
people of Mulataroo, you will
kill me. You have no under-
standing, and you have no grati-
tude. For you it is wrong that I
make a beautiful town-hall.’
“He glared at them fiercely for
a few moments, then he dashed
up the steps of the town-hall.
He turned round on the crowd
then, so angry that they stopped
their shouting to listen to him.
‘You people of Mulataroo!
When I give you something
good, you think I am wonderful
and you cheer me. But when
the bad men among you attack
me, and I want you to believe
me and understand me, then you
cry shame on me, and drive my
lovely lady from me. But you
will be sorry for it. The town-
hall that I made for you by a
miracle, I will now take away
from you by another miracle!’ ”
“Then he turned round to face
the building and waved his arms
at it as if he hated it. He
shouted as loud as he could.
‘Destroy! Destroy! I will
destroy it.’
“And straight away there was
a terrible cracking, breaking
sound, and the wall began to
shake as if there were an earth-
quake.
“The people yelled with fear,
the N mayor loudest of all:
“‘Ziska, Ziska, don’t do it!’
“But Ziska walked deliber-
ately into the cracking building,
waving his arms and shouting,
‘Destroy! Destroy!’
“Muriel, gave a dreadful
scream and tried to run in after
him, but before she got to the
entrance the whole building
came down with a crash that
shook the ground.”
npHE railwayman paused and
looked at me, all the’anima-
tion gone out of him, suddenly
forlorn and miserable.
“That’s what I showed you
out of the train-window; that
heap of bricks and rubble. You
should have been able to tell by
the size of the heap what a grand
building it had been. It got
scattered* about a lot by the
people digging out Ziska’s
body.”
He turned away from me and
stared through the windows out
into the darkness. It occurred
to me that I could ask the con-
ductor if he’d noticed anything
remarkable in the building-line
at Mulataroo recently; I could
also check with the Observatory
when I got to Sydney to find if
there had been an earth-tremor.
Then I noticed the railwayman
put his big, calloused, working-
man’s hands up furtively to wipe
at his eyes, and I felt ashamed.
When he saw me watching him
he got up abruptly and left the
compartment, taking his suitcase
with him.
AT A STREET CORNER
Solitary girl in a taxi,
Hand on your chin,
Slow-falling eyelids,
No wrinkle on your skin
Save a frowning' forehead,
What war is there within ?
Expediency, or sin ?
Lights that hold you halted
Answer simply in red.
But the restless amber
Before one word is said
Divides restraint, desire.
Whose clothes are gladly shed
May dread, perhaps, to go to bed,
The dazed and winking city
Makes light of yes and rto,
Muddling each straight answer ;
Between each stop and go
A maybe always flashing
Interprets “I do not know.”
Is love itself a steady glow?
Were I your watchful driver,
You’d not have to decide.
Under my hands’ direction
You would cross the wide
Traffic of tears and anger.
Simply by being the bride
Of green, you would reach the
other side.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.


don’t
wonder
at the
• •
FACTIOFIIFE
M
<2*7
PROVED
(/ft/i/ess/fy
No more doubts about the merits of Esso Extra Motor Oil. Its superiority
has been proved in completely independent tests carried out by Australian
University Engineers. These tests prove that Esso Extra Motor Oil more
than doubles the life of automotive engines.
As well as this, you get the equivalent of four extra octane numbers in
engine performance plus a cleaner, more efficient motor. So, at your next
oil change, insist on Esso Extra.
NVHI avow no A 3A/9 02
daub/eengine/ife
Esso
EXTRA MOTOR OIL
FROM YOUR
[ATLANTIC]
RETAILER
ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
m
Established ISw in Help* •/
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
fire accident marine
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD,
( England )
EJB.W. Branch:
g Spring Street, SjrSsey.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
'“THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all Die finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LID.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
w. c. Penfold A Co. FI?. Mi.
, Norman Bros. Fly. Mi.
Vardon Prlco Mi*
. Docket Book Co. (AmO
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Davidson’s Report :
1901, an official record of a trek for
gold by a Government official of that
name. Good price paid for volume
rin fair condition. —6385.
Any information on the where-
abouts of Robert Hardcastle,
supposed to be living in Newcastle or
Perth. Personal particulars: Born
Sept. 28, 1894; parents’ names, John
William Hardcastle and Alice Jean
Hardcastle (nee Walton), both
deceased; left home (3 Young-road,
Palmersville, Forest Hall, Newcastle-
on-Tyne, England) 33 years ajgo.
Write direct to Ada J. Hardcastle, 34
Beal Drive, Forest Hall, Newcastle-
on-Tyne, 12, England,
To buy copies of the following:
Henry Lawson’s The Rising of the
Court and On the Track and Over the
Sliprails (Sydney, 1900 ; 2 vols.); Our
Wool Staple: The History of Squat-
ting in South Australia (Adelaide,
1865), by W. R. Lawson; Tagebuch
einer Landreise (Halle, 1861), by
L. Leichhardt; Levick’s Antarctic
Penguins!' Journey to the Australian
Alps (1835), by J. Lhotsky.—6386.
Words of the humorous verse begin-
ning:—
A social-science session was convened a
few nights since
In a snuggery — French for parlor — at
Jim’s ‘-The Golden Quince.”
The question up for discussion was which
is the truest sign
That a man has been overtaken by spirits,
beer or wine.
—6387.
Information Sought
Some brief details on the rutile
mined on some N.S.W. beaches ? Do
the mineral-sands mined with the
rutile have any commercial use ?
The material in the naturally-
concentrated black sand consists of
a mixture of rutile, zircon and
ilmenite, with a little monazite and
traces of tin; gold, platinum and
osmiridium may also be present, but
chief interest in the sand lies in its
rutile- and zircon-content. The
average sand-concentrate contains
from 40-60 p.c. zircon, 30-40 p.c.
rutile, 20-25 p.c. ilmenite and about
0.5 p!c. monazite. Rutile is the most
important of the minerals, being
worth at present about £100 a ton.
It has been produced in Australia
since about 1933, in which time its
price has fluctuated greatly. Until
recently its principal uses were as a
flux-coating for electric-welding elec-
trodes and for the manufacture of
titanium-tetrachloride and other
titanium chemicals. Recently, how-
ever, plants erected in the U.S.A. and
Europe for the large-scale manu-
facture of titanium have placed a
greater demand on the mineral.
Metallic titanium is about as strong
as steel, but is as light as aluminium
and has good heat- and corrosion-
resisting properties. Moreover, a
large and increasing use of titanium
is predicted in aeroplane-construction.
Zircom is used as an opacifier in
vitreous enamels, as ap ingredient in
certain glasses and in heat-resisting
porcelains and refractory blocks for
furnace-linings. A small quantity is
used for making ferro-zirconium for
the steel-industry; metallic zirconium
has a number of small-scale uses.
llmenite, when pure, is used as a raw
material for the manufacture of
titanium pigments, but the presence of
chromium in the ilmenite from the
beach-sands spoils it for that usage,
and so it is dumped as waste.
Monazite is a phosphate of cerium
metals and contains also about 6 p.c.
of thorium-oxide. Formerly used
as a source of thorium for the manu-
facture of gas-mantles, it is now used
mainly for its cerium-content. Cerium
finds a limited use in the manufacture
of the sparking-“fiints” for gas- and
cigarette-lighters. Some cerium is
used in special glasses, a small amount
is used as an ingredient in alloys with
other metals, and cerium-compounds
are used to improve the light
of carbon-arc lamps. There is some
interest in monazite as a source of
thorium for use in atomic-energy
plants, but there is as yet no large-
scale demand.
* * * *
Some particulars of the Huddart
Parker passenger-ship Zealandia ?
What was her fate ?
Acquired from overseas interests
in 1910, the Zealandia, of 6660 tons,
was af that period the largest vessel
of Fluddart Parker’s fleet. (An earlier
Zealandia, of 2771 tons, owned by the
same firm, was built in 1899, but was
sold soon after to the Union Steam-
ship Co., and renamed Paloona.) The
second Zealandia, under charter to
the Union Co., was for a time on the
Sydney-Vancouver run; then Huddart
Parker put her on the Sydney-
Fr-exnantle service. In May, 1918, the
British Admiralty requisitioned her as
a troopship, and in Dec., 1919, after
reconditioning, she resumed the run
from Sydney to the West until
replaced, in 1929, by the Westralia.
She was then shifted to the trans-
Tasman service, until the Wanganella
took over, after which she ran
between Sydney and Hobart till World
War 11. On June 29, 1940, she again
became a troop-transport, being used
mainlv in the South-west Pacific.
Zealandia was sunk in the Japanese
air-attack on Darwin on Feb. 19,
1942.
* * * *
How to prevent rot in hessian ?
Dissolve bluestone in 9gals.
water in a wooden tub or barrel. In
another vessel dissolve 31b. washing-
soda crystals in Hgal. water. While
stirring, add the soda-solution slowly
to the bluestone-solution. Immerse
each bag until the fabric and stitching
are thoroughly wet. (If the bags are
to be stitched together, dip also the
twine to be used for stitching.) Run
the bags through a clothes-wringer,
and hang to dry.
♦ * * *
Is there any arrangement between
the British and Australian Social
Services Departments which would
enable a British old-age pensioner,
resident in Australia for six years, to
have his British pension (of 235. per
week ) brought up to the Australian
old-age-pension rate? (The applicant
has a house in England valued at
£1500; he receives no rent from it.}
The reciprocal agreement on social
security between the United Kingdom
and Australia came into force in both
countries on Thursday, January 7,
1954. It covers Australian age-,
invalid- and widows’-pensions, child-
endowment and unemployment- and
sickness-benefits, and the comparable
benefits of the United Kingdom. Ex-
residents of the United Kingdom in
receipt of British national-insurance
pension and living permanently in
Australia may apply for a part Aus-
tralian age-pension to supplement their
British retirement-pension. Those
persons who are fully insured under
the National Insurance Scheme, or
who would have been fully insured if
50 contributions to the National Insur-
ance Scheme were credited to them for
each year of their residence in Aus-
tralia before reaching retiring-age, may
apply to have their British retirement-
pensions supplemented by an amount
of the Australian age-pension which
would bring the total of their two
pensions up to the maximum Aus-
tralian rate. (This can only be done
if they have no income or property
which would affect their pension under
ordinary Australian means-test con-
ditions.) If the ex-resident of the
United Kingdom is not fully insured,
thi supplement paid by the Australian
Department of Social Services is on a
proportional basis, depending on the
extent to which the ex-resident of the
United Kingdom was insured, or the
extent to which he would have been
insured if 50 contributions to the
National Insurance Scheme were
credited to him for each year of his
residence in Australia up to retiring-
age. This supplement is still subject
to reduction, according to the ordin-
ary Australian means-test conditions.
In this case, since the applicant is
receiving only 235. a week retirement-
pension and as the full standard-rate
of British retirement-pension is
£2v 10s. sterling per week, 235. per
week would represent only partial-
insurance. The supplement to be
paid would, therefore, be small; and
the deduction of £l3O per annum,
which would have to be made because
of the possession of a property valued
at £l5OO, would more than likely
eliminate any entitlement to the Aus-
tralian supplement.
Brief Answers
G.W.; (1) Unfortunately, The
Bulletin Reciter is now as extinct as
the oozlum bird. However, much of
its verse has been reprinted in Aus-
tralian Bush Ballads, edited by
Douglas Stewart and Nancy KeeSing;
this is obtainable (price 305.) from
most booksellers. (2) The other verse
you mention sounds Patersonian, and,
though the titles you give don’t fit, will
probably be found in The Collected
Verse of A. B. Paterson (price 155.),
a varied selection of Paterson verse;
this latest edition is available from
most booksellers or from Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney Old Digger: Suggest you
take the matter up with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture R.R.: The
position of the estate at the present
time is not clear from your letter.
If the estate is in the hands of trustees
and the trustees have not let the house
to your brother, tfi en both he' and
you are trespassers. If, on the other
hand, the estate has been distributed
and you are, all of you, joint owners,
then you have as much right there as
he has and any one of you can cause
the house to be sold over his head.
M.E.G.: Nobody can walk about
on your roof without your permission.
A.S.H.: (1) Everyman’s suggests
My Modern Sextant, by G. A. Heath,
and Scientific Instruments (chap. XII),
edited by H. J. Cooper. Angus and
Robertson, Ltd. (89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney), advise that, though they
haven’t My Modern Sextant on their
lists, they carry Scientific Instruments
(vol. I at 41s. 6d., post Is. 6d., and
vol. II at 495. 9d., post Is. 6d.) and
another on the subject, The Sextant
Simplified, by O. M. Watts, a practical
explanation of the use of the sextant
at sea; price 17s. (post Is. 3d.).
Unfortunately, both books have been
temporarily out of stock, The
Sextant Simplified probably back on
the shelves now and supplies of the
other due in a few weeks. (2) For
sights over 1000 ft. the error would
not exceed 30-40 seconds, and sights
of a mile or more the error would be
appreciable .A.T.P.: (1) James
John Corbett (1866-1933) turned pro.
in 1884, k.o.’d veteran Joe Choynski
in 28 rounds in 1889, defeated Jake
Kilrain in 1890, and drew with negro
Peter Jackson, so earning a stab at
the title of John L. Sullivan, many
years holder of the world heavy-title
and at that time a national figure.
(2) Corbett surprised by beating John
L. in New Orleans in 1892. (3) He
successfully defended his title against
Britisher Charlie Mitchell, but took a
count to Bob Fitzsimmons at Carson,
Nevada, in 1897, a victim of the blow
now well-known as the solar-plexus
punch. (4) His last fight was against
Jim Jeffries in 1903. Jeffries k.o.’d
him. (5) His reminiscences, The Roar
of the Crowd. .. .T.O’L.: Not a
chance in the world Herb: So do
W e D.8.T.: What other conclu-
sion? J.D.O’D.: There have been
two such loans, one announced on
Nov. 23, 1953, for 60-million Swiss
francs (approx. £6,000,000) and
another, for the same amount,
announced on Feb. 4, 1955 M.H.:
Retired persons’ concession-fare
certificates are issued in N.S.W. to
those receiving old-age or invalid
pension, A.I.F. Service pension, a
t.-b. allowance or the parents’ pen-
sion paid under Regulation 34AA of
the Repatriation Act. The concession
entitles the holder to travel at con-
cession-rates on trams and Govern-
ment buses and at a single-fare rate
for a return-journey on the trains
anywhere within N.S.W. There is
no limit to the number of journeys
the holder of a certificate may take,
but the certificate is available only
within the State J.E.S.: The
hegira (Arabic hijra, hijrah, “departure
from one’s country”) was the enforced
flight of Mohammed from Mecca to
Medina in a.d. 622. It is regarded
as the beginning of the Mohammedan
er a K.R.: A free chest X-ray can
be obtained at any time in office-
hours at the Anti-tuberculosis Associa-
tion of N.S.W., corner Crown-street
and Foveaux-street, Surry Hills (as
well as, of course, at its various
mobile-units)....H.S.H.: The poem
“The Green Eye of the Yellow God”
was written by J. Milton Hayes and
is published in Best Loved Poems of
the American People, selected by
Hazel Felleman and published in
1936. There is no poem “The Mad
Carew?’— he is the hero of “Jhe
i Green Eye of the Yellow God.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
V.J.W.: Sorry, but we can’t
provide “The Runaway Bride” with
bed and breakfast.. . .C.R.K.: We
keep a standing firing-party for poets
who scribble their masterpieces in
pencil on luncheon-wrappers....
G.H.: Thirty-thousand words about
the secrets of the Pyramids! No,
thank you R.McC.: A dozen other
poets have hastened to inform us that
spring is imminent L.C.: Poem
about garbage-tins, dead cats, and
the broken bottles in the gutter found
its way to the basket F.S.: Well,
you could buy yourself a soap-box.
P.D.H.: “Banjo” Paterson beat
you to it by about 60 years....
K.L.K. : That swagman will have to
find another camping-place 5.8.:
The whistling husband was piped out
of the office... .1.D.A.: “Wild
Flowers” reads more like a seedsman’s
catalogue than a poem 0.A.: Ten
pages describing how a blue cattle-
dog bit an amorous insurance-
canvasser was nine pages too many.
F.W.: Not for publication, but
pleased to note that the red-haired
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
barmaid married the uranium-miner
from Rum Jungle M.G.: Either
the Sydney “Sun” or “Daily Mirror”
might like that trick-ending story
M.N.: Description of goings-on at the
bus-depot not for this sedate journal.
D.F.T.: The punch-drunk slugger
didn’t last one round with the
Religious Editor.... H. McL.:
Abstract talk at King’s Cross coffee-
shop more suited for the pages of
some arty little paper written by and
for coffee-shop intellectuals E.R.:
“Does it ising”? No, it squawks....
M.D.: Homeward-bound.


Sartorial Study
Nuts to National Costumes
By GAVIN CASEY
SINCE such of my ancestry
as is not Australian seems
to be about evenly divided
between Scots and Irish, I
have always felt entitled to
criticise these two races in a
manner that would make me
turn ruggedly Scottish or wildly
and recklessly Irish if anybody
else did it.
And I am, of course, proud of
their general adaptability and
the noteworthy pioneering they
did in this and most other
young countries. I just • wish
they’d leave their accents,
national costumes and ancient
wrongs at home.
The first thing a Scot does
when he escapes from his scenic
but not-too-fertile banks and
braes into the comparative
civilisation of a place like
Australia is to select a street-
corner, erect a Caledonian Hall,
and start playing the bagpipes.
The first thing an Irishman
does, should he be the second to
arrive, is seek out the Caledonian
Hall. He then selects a site on
the opposite corner, puts up
premises for a Hibernian Society
or a Celtic Club, and tries to
make enough noise to drown the
bagpipes.
The mere Australians, being
themselves a fairly rugged race,
don’t immediately move out of
the neighborhood. In sad fact,
they are suggestible as well as
rugged, and after an initial
period of tortured eardrums they
begin to remember their own
ancestry and to get proud and
defiant about it. The Mac-
tavishes, the Murdochs and the
Macisaacs eventually learn the
bagpipes, join the kilted regi-
ments, and are pillars of the
Caledonian Society. The
Murphys, the McDonoughs, and
perhaps even occasionally a
Casey or two, link-up with the
wild Hibernians, and in less
inhibited times used proudly to
flaunt black-eyes on the day after
St. Patrick’s, and skite about
“phwat happened to the other
feller.”
I even know of a man whose
family has been Australian for
long enough to entitle him to
membership .of the Pioneers’
Club, but whose original forebear
on this continent came from the
cold and rocky end of the British
Isles ; yet his name worried him
for years. Some cad of an
earlier generation without pride
of race had allowed its first three
letters to be abbreviated to
“Me.” Finally its present bearer
got it altered back by deed-poll
(in his own case, but not that of
his brothers and sisters) to the
truly Highland “Mac.”
He has been a happier man
ever since, but he merely snarls
when people ask why he and his
brothers have names that are
different but so little different.
As for the kilt, the bagpipes
and the shillelagh, I must admit
that all can stir my blood and
arouse admiration in me, in the
fight circumstances. But strictly
as a spectator. For most of the
Australian year I would as soon
think of going around in a
deepsea-diver’s outfit as leaving
off my trousers, draping myself
with heavy tweed, slinging some-
thing like a horse-rug over my
shoulder in case more cold had
to be kept out, and wearing a
little cap that* kept my head
hot without protecting my face
from the sun.
The bagpipes, of course, are
really a weapon of war, like the
shillelagh. And though I admire
heroes I am not one. When
either bagpipes or shillelagh get
too close I turn and run. The
zither is my favorite musical
instrument and the pen my
favorite weapon.
So much for the Scots and the
Irish, without whose urge to
perpetuate the race 1 would not
be here. And on to the Serbs
and Greeks, the Dutch and
Germans, the Poles and
Ukrainians, to whom I owe noth-
ing more than a proper respect
for human-beings who may or
may not be wiser, kinder, better-
educated, more useful, more
generous and more energetic
than I am myself.
As with the races from which
I sprang, I can be moved and
pleased, in the right circum-
stances, by their national
costumes, folk-songs and
national dances. But I can also
be bored by too much of them.
Just as I do not, personally,
wish to wear the kilt, I have no
intention of allowing myself to
be clothed in the short, ballet-
dancer’s frilled skirt that is
traditionally the nether-garment
"She Was positively overdressed. She Was carrying THREE boomerangs !”
of the Greek warrior. I do not
think that Dutch sabots would
agree with my feet, and my wife
looks better in tailored costumes
than she would in the blouse
and wide, long skirt of a
peasant from the Steppes.
They can convert us to some
of their food, to some, of their
music, and probably even to
some of their social ideas, but
not to wearing boots made of
wood, ribbons and
brooches, sporrans, and three-
cornered hats suggestive of Lord
Nelson with a touch of Christian
Dior.
Insular I may be, but in
clothing my main desires are
comfort and enough conformity
with the style of those around
me to make me inconspicuous.
And, perhaps, a nationally
Australian weakness for pockets,
so that I can carry on my person
anything small that I may want
to carry, even if I can’t find
it without a lot of fumbling and
complaining.
Until fairly recently, the
essential in the garb of most
Australians seemed to be the
waistcoat, purely because of its
four small, convenient pockets.
Before the wrist-watch became
popular, the lower two of these
pouches held the watch, the keys
and the cigar-cutter of the city
man, and a chain strong enough
to tether a rumbustious billy-
goat usually stretched across the
manly paunch between them. In
the case of the bushman, helped
by the trouser-pockets and
sundry more pouches attached to
a leather belt, they held every-
thing of importance.
For instance, Bulletin contri-
butor Olaf Ruhen, on his travels,
once encountered in the heat of
North Queensland a farmer
ploughing, completely nude
except for his waistcoat.
“Why the weskit?” asked
Olaf.
With the infinite contempt of
a practical man asked a silly
question, the farmer answered,
briefly, “Gotter have pockets f’r
me pipe an’ terbacker, don’t I?”
In view of the increasing
popularity of semi-nudity while
at work during our summers it is
a wonder that Nature has not
developed Australians , with
ready-made, built-in pouches,
like kangaroos. That may come
later, of course, when we have
been here long enough to have
got all the bagpipes, shillelaghs
and stove-pipe pants out of our
systems.
Until such a happy day arrives,
let the New Australians —
whether they come from the
United Kingdom or other parts
of Europe —keep their national
glad-rags for their own feast-
days and special occasions, and
leave US' sluggishly content with
our baggy-kneed trousers, our
open-necked shirts, the memory
of our beloved waistcoats, and
the general sartorial set-up that
suits our inclination, and more-
or-less our climate.
They’ll find this easier,
perhaps, if they reflect on what
their so-called “national
costumes” really are—the garb
of a class, not of a nation.
While the Dutch peasantry
went in clogs, their betters
danced in elaborately buckled
leather shoes from Paris or of
French design. The kilt was the
garb of the noble Highlander, as
distinct from the unimportant
hoi polloi who grubbed along in
the south. The Spanish rich
garbed their ladies in graceful
mantillas and tall combs that
some of their inferiors might
imitate one day a week, but
could never equal. The “pearly
king” from London’s East End
had a defiant pride in his position
in the community, but it was
still a lowly position. In many
parts of the world similarity of
dress developed simply through
unavailability of a variety of
fabrics in a variety of colors.
Uniforms are the apparel of
people under discipline, whether
it is the dignified and fully-
understood discipline of the
Army, the slavery of a social
caste, or the discipline of
economic necessity. The free
man’s rights include those of
wearing the frightful tie his wife
gave him at Christmas if he feels
like it, and getting his pants cut
wider than those of the mob if
such additional space happens to
make his legs more comfortable.
If he doesn’t like polishing shoes,
he can wear suede ones, as an
increasing number of my friends
do, though I haven’t that much
courage myself.
The strangest national costume
I ever saw is that which a
decreasing number of Americans
wear between May 31 (Decora-
tion Day) and September 4
(Labor Day) each year, which
roughly covers summer in the
north-eastern United States. On
the first date old-timers still get
out their seersucker suits, and
the donkey’s-breakfasts that we
used to call straw-deckers. They
wear these religiously, weather
permitting and sometimes in
defiance of it, until Labor Day,
when they can go back into
mothballs.
The straw-decker -is a reason-
ably smart-looking and light-
weight (though somewhat sharp-
edged) headgear, but the seer-
sucker suit is an old-fashioned
atrocity. Like nylon, it doesn’t
have to be ironed, but, unlike
nylon, the reason for not ironing
it is that it wouldn’t do any good
if you did —it would still look
like a pyjama-suit that had been
slept in for many restless nights.
Its crinkles can be quite attrac-
tive in certain sorts of summer
frocks, but in a suit they are
abominable.
However, between Decoration
Day and Labor Day some of the
older generation of Americans
still appear in public in this
weird get-up. Their sons and
grandsons have long discovered
lightweight summer fabrics that
look like real cloth rather than
striped cornsack, and panama-
style hats that are soft around
the skull as well as light and
airy. Such fripperies are not
for the stubborn old fellows, who
have marked on their calendars
for 50 years the dates for seer-
suckers and hard straw-hats.
In London, and in most of
England, the fetish is the Hom-
burg, underneath which are the
black coat and the discreetly-
striped trousers. I was much
amused once when I found the
works-foreman of a great factory
in this uniform of respectability,
which it must have cost him a
pound a week to keep clean and
trim with the dust of industry
falling all around him.
(Incidentally, the general-
manager of the same outfit
turned out to be a transplanted
Sydneysider who wore what
suited him, and this seemed to
be a baggy old nondescript grey
suit, and an utterly deplorable
lid which could be placed in no
class whatever.)
I was even more astonished
when, on a press-tour of certain
English coalfields, I found the
manager of one exceptionally
dirty mine wearing the same sort
of outfit. He was a man who
had come up from the pit, and
the minute the knock-off whistle
blew, his habit was tp rush
home, change into loosely
informal clothes, and drink beer
with the boys at the Miners’
Club. But on the job, apparently,
he had to have his uniform of
authority, for fear that some
passer-by might not at first
glance recognise him as a
member of the ruling classes.
It was very different in the
Kalgoorlie goldmines, when I
worked on them years ago.
There was a sort of rough system
that surface toilers wojre blue
dungarees, and engineers,
metallurgists and staff-men
generally wore khaki. But if you
came on to the job in their color
you didn’t get the sack, or even
a black look. And some of
them (whose wives apparently
thought khaki didn’t match the'
color of their eyes) wore our
sort of working-duds without
being suspected of wanting to
creep up and spy on us
undetected.
Yet not so long ago, when I
went back to Western Australia
—which, for my money, is the
best place in the world for
human beings to live —I attracted
much attention because with a
discreet business-suit I wore a
panama hat. All the other
Westralians were sweltering in
felt, in midsummer, and when I
asked what the hell Was wrpng
with wearing a cady that suited
the weather, I was told, “Noth-
ing. Only we naturally notice
it. We’re a bit conservative in
our clothes, over here.”
Thus it seems that even the
“national costume” of my native
State doesn’t suit me, when it’s
hot. Which is not really surpris-
ing, in view of my belief that a
man should dress whatever way
suits him and his environment,
subject to preservation of the
decencies and avoidance of the
bizarre so excessive as to be
exhibitionist.
So nuts to national costumes
except in the nation in which
they are most utilitarian and
appropriate! The place for them
is on picture-postcards and in
illustrations to travel-books, not
on human-beings somewhere
else.


tstaulisJietl 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOH 4
OSUUJYA*
pTrua-,.
TRADE
MAffH
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HBAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Yort
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIB STAMPERS, EMBOSSER 3
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
't elegrams and Cables •
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX, ORWELL
PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON •
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In earlier years crack per-
formers competing in the
Chelmsford Stakes had to carry
penalties, but that condition was
wisely eliminated, and the nine-
furlongs w.-f.-a. race, worth
£2250, will highlight the meeting
of Tattersall’s Club at Randwick
next Saturday.
Outsider Electro, at 66 to 1 in
a field of only five, won the
Chelmsford last season from
Somerset Fair and Prince
Cortauld; last-named won in
1954 and was third in 1953. Top-
class gallopers to win the race
in recent years have included
Delta (three wins), Columnist,
Bernborough, Beaulivre, Beau
Vite, Royal Chief, Rogilla
(twice), Phar Lap, and Limerick
(three wins). Phar Lap beat
another top performer, Night-
march, who had to concede the
champion 71b.
The only three-year-olds to
win the Chelmsford in the past
25 years have been Royal Stream,
Bernbrook, Tribal, Gold Rod,
Gaine Carrington and Ammon
Ra. Entrants for next Saturday’s
contest include the best three-
year-olds in training, as well as
Caranna, Electro, Somerset Fair,
Redcraze, Fair Chance and
Prince Delville.
A feature of the Chelmsford is
that it is a race in which the
pressure is usually on from the
start. Delta’s third win in the
event (1952) saw a new Aus-
tralian time - record hoisted
for nine furlongs, lmin. 49|sec.
It still stands. Prince Cortauld
ran his Chelmsford in 1.49 J two
years ago, while Electro’s time
last year was 1.50 f. Going back
to 1930, Phar Lap won in 1.51|,
which is about average for this
spring drawcard. More than 30
years ago Heroic won the event
in 1.50*.
The Canterbury Guineas pro-
vided another pointer to Movie
Boy’s A.J.C. Derby chance, but
runner-up Harnham Hill, a
maiden, gave him a long start
from the home-turn and was
beaten only a couple of lengths.
Harnham Hill will be all the
better for the run. Other Derby
aspirants failed in the Canter-
bury test, which should give
heart to two or three Melbourne
owners with designs on the rich
Randwick classic.
The S.T.C. was well rewarded
for staging the match-race
between crack New Zealanders
El Khobar and Syntax: a record
Guineas Day crowd of 30,000
filled the enclosures. As it turned
out, it wasn’t much of a match-
race, El Khobar having the
upper-hand all the way and win-
ning by half-a-dozen lengths.
Maybe Syntax’s rider forfeited
his chance by trying to go with
El Khobar for the first two fur-
longs, but probably El Khobar
would have won no matter what
tactics were adopted by Syntax’s
jockey. As the winner covered
the furlongs in 1.44, it was
a true test. Australia’s best, 1.43,
was made by Chilperic at Caul-
field in October, 1933 ; Mayfowl
ran 1.44| at Rosehill in 1944.
World’s record is 1.41.
Lindbergh figured in a new
role at Canterbury when he won
the main event over a bit of
distance (nine furlongs). As he
won by a couple of lengths
maybe he could win something
even longer. Until Saturday he
hadn’t won beyond seven fur-
longs, though he had been
placed at a mile. Lindbergh was
a brilliant two-year-old, when
he won £11,520 in stakes. The
now' five-year-old horse has 8.8.
in the Epsom, and on his latest
display he could be a possibility.
Sydney-trained horses have
won two of the last three Oak-
leigh Plates, and already con-
nections of speedy High Spot,
winner of the Canterbury First
Ashbury Stakes, are concentrat-
ing on next year’s Caulfield
flutter over 5| furlongs. The
Oakleigh suits the speedster, and
High Spot is a brilliant galloper.
He ran the opposition off their
feet on Saturday, and won on
the bit in fast time. He has won
seven races in the past 18 months.
Dr. C. Guiney’s smart filly
Nydello ran a most promising
race to finish second, and should
soon win.
In the Canterbury Welter
young K. Cotter, on 25-to-l Easy
Rise, settled down behind hot
favorite and pacemaker Adelina
till the last stages of the race,
when he went ahead but still had
to ride hard to stall-off the
second - favorite, Cloudsman,
ridden by Sellwood. It was a
good bit of riding by Cotter, and
his face was beaming as he un-
saddled. Easy Rise was a good
winner for the stable.
At Caulfield last Saturday
Camber, a 200-to-l shot, won
the mile Warriston Handicap, for
which classic hopes had most
backing. Centreway broke down
during that race, but Summalu
and Hot Spell will have to
improve to be real Derby
bhances.
Rising Fast is favorite for the
Caulfield Cup following his
brilliant win over Sailor’s Guide
and Arlunya in the Memsie
Stakes, but 10.3 will be plenty
to carry over the hard-fought
mile-and-a-half of the Cup on
October 20. He won the Caul-
field Cup in 1954 with 9.5, and
in 1955 with 9.10, but
this time he is faced with
the toughest task of his
amazing career. His Cup success
with 9.10 was a weight-record.
He has now started in 58 races
for 24 wins, 14 seconds, and two
thirds. Stake-winnings total
£65,165.
In winning the £4OOO New-
castle Cup on Saturday country
galloper Dewaroy recorded his
39th success—a remarkably good
record —but he wasn’t fancied
by the public despite a run of
wins at prior starts. His country
jockey, C. Kelly, rode him 91b.
over his handicap weight of 7.2.
He had taken weight off to ride
the surprise winner, and appeared
a bit lucky to be given permis-
sion to stack so much overweight
on to the horse’s orginal
poundage. That hardly would
have been allowed at a metro-
politan meeting. Dewaroy out-
classed the opposition, and ran
the 11 furlongs in 2.16 i, a track
record. As the other starters
included the well-performed
Evening Peal and Fair Chance,
there was special merit in
Dewaroy’s victory.
Harry Tancred, Sydney Turf
Club’s chairman of directors,
told members at the annual meet-
ing of various improvements and
new building-construction to be
done at Rosehill and at Canter-
bury. A successful year was
experienced financially, but the
club had to meet heavy commit-
ments in various directions.
Improvements that will appeal to
older members will be the
proposed escalators at both *
courses. At Canterbury the new
7-!-furlongs start should be ready
in a matter of weeks, while the
new 9i-furlongs chute is
expected to be in operation early
in the summer. There’s to be a
new paddock-stand at Ro,sfehill
and a new doubles-tote at
Canterbury. Rosebery is to be
retained for training; close on
200 horses are in work there.
The club will stage ,the Golden
Slipper Stakes of about £9OOO
next year.
“He used to play tennis."
With all races from now till
October regarded from a Spring
Carnival viewpoint, Friday
night’s meeting at Harold Park
threw a little light on big-race
chances. Westralian Marine
Dealer again raced to a com-
fortable win in the fast-class
Hurlstone Park Handicap.
Having won two races in his
home State in June, he has now
tallied four on end, and has
qualified for a run in the Spring
Cup. He has averaged a mile-
gait of about 2.9! for his last
three wins over distances of 12,
11| and 13| furlongs respec-
tively ; and his driver, S. Wood-
worth, rarely takes short cuts.
Defiance and King Mittons filled
the places to him; Defiance ran
on nicely.
Marine Dealer’s expected
clash with Argent was a washout.
The Victorian mare broke-up at
the start, took a long while to
hit her straps, and was never
in the hunt from there on. She
looked a trifle underdone, how-
ever ; this week she’s in off
scratch again and should make
amends. She looks to be the
future glamor-horse of Victorian
trotting Marine Dealer is the
logical topliner of the future
for his State; candidates for
top N.S.W. honors —Brilliant
Moon, Secret Spring and others
—will probably decide the issue
among them in the spring. The
carnival is therefore made all
the more interesting in that it
will probably decide the early
choice of Australia’s likdiest
Inter-Dominion rep, at the Perth
Carnival in February.
+ +
With a record semi-final
crowd of 91,480 to see it done,
Melbourne defeated Colling-
wood 11.14-8.16 in the second
V.F.L. semi-final. At quarter-
time it was 1.4 each, at half-
time the Magpies held a point
lead, 3.7-3.6, and at three-
quarter-time, after a brilliant
quarter in which each/ team put
on 5.3, they were still that one
point in front. Then Mel-
bourne’s greater physical
strength told, and, with its
rovers winning, kept the
Magpies, despite their having
the wind behind them, goalless
in the last term, and won all
over them. This was the third
time in three games this season
that Melbourne has beaten
Collingwood, each time by
almost the same margin and
each time in like manner, with
’Wood leading at the changes or
at the least cutting even—till
the last quarter, when it’s faded
out. Whether the two will meet
a fourth time, in the “grand,”
depends on the ’Wood-Footscray
clash this Saturday.
“Maros”: W.A. cricketer
Basil Rigg, who’s made a century
or two, though never one for the
State, almost topped the century
lately in another sphere—his first
Perth League football-match as
umpire. Fie awarded 95 free-
kicks in the game. Fifty to sixty
a game is regarded as the norm.
* , ¥ *
N.Z. defeated South Africa
11-5 in the fourth and final
Rugby Union Test at Auckland,
after leading 3-0 at half-time. In
a largely forward struggle, N.Z.,
though finishing a couple short,
was never headed, thus winning
the Tests 3-1. It was the first
time this century that S’Africa
had losUa series.
Giving a solid all-round dis-
play Gordon defeated Rand-
wick 20-10 in Sydney Rugby
Union’s second semi-final. Two
of Gordon’s stars were break-
aways Hancock and Yanz,
always ready to pounce on a
loose ball, continually harasr
sing Randwick’s inside backs.
Another warranting stellar rating
was young second-rower Barry
Clinton, who’s had the pro-
verbial meteoric rise and \Vho
may be headed for the big-time.
He scored 14 of Gordon’s 20
points, two tries, a converted
goal and two penalties; lately
he’s been' made No. 1 goal-
kicker of the side in place of"
the previous booter, reliable
fullback Maurie Graham. This
Saturday it’s Randwick v. East.
“Tom”: Few football families
have had such a record in one
generation as the Phipps
brothers. Three of them play for
Gordon (Sydney) Rugby Union
first-grade side, two of them,
Jim and Peter, being inter-
nationals. Another brother,
youngest and biggest, is a
member of Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College Ist XV. He
played for Hawkesbury in its
recent game against the visiting
side from St. George College
(Canada), won by Hawkesbury
16-5.
* * *
Before a crowd of 42,350 the
young Balmain team, none of
whom had played in a first-
grade final before, knocked
South Sydney out in Sydney’s
Rugby League final. It was
36-33 after a fast and exciting
game. South, including its -tally
in one of its traditional finish-
ing bursts when Balmain led
36-25, scored in all seven tries
to six, but against that Balmain
had two short at the end (one
sent-off, one injured), while
South was only one short —also
a marching-orders job. South
Sydney has been premiers for
the past three years, and either
premiers or runner-up every
year since 1949. This year the
premiers will be either Balmain
or St. George.
* * *
In the Chatswood (Sydney)
Professional Purse of £l5O
Sydney player Ron Menzies
broke the course record of 62
with a brilliant 58. The Chats-
wood club’s a 21-year-old, but
Menzies was the first player
to break par, which is 60.
Twenty - year - old Max
Doherty won the State Junior
Golf Championship with an
aggregate score of 145 over
Sydney’s Long Reef course. It
was his fourth shot at the title.
Runners-up were Barry Rat-
cliffe (last year’s champ.) and
B. Baker, of Maitland, with
Noel Wade (Kandos)' third.
* * *
The fifth cricket Test, drawn,
was a moral victory for England ;
and if May hadn’t overestimated
Australia’s batsmen and closed
so late it could have been an
actual victory. During the series
Australia had its bad luck,
through injuries, loss of the toss
in four of the Tests, and the
weather ; but what was well and
truly the better side won the
Ashes.
* * *
In Brisbane on Saturday Aus-
tralian high-jump record-holder
Charles Porter set a new record
with a jump of 6ft. B|in., which
equalled the Olympic best, made
in 1952. A fair enough effort;
but to win at the Melbourne
Games he’ll have to beat
American negro Charlie Dumas,
who cleared 7ft. at the U.S.
Olympic trials in June.
“Cunedda”: Australian cross-
country champion Dave Power,
running in the N.S.W. Olympic
squad’s events at Moore Park
(Sydney) on August 25, set an
Australian record in the one-
hour run. He covered 11 miles
1650yds. 9in., which beat Vic-
torian marathon-runner Les
Perry’s record by 303yds. 3in.
Power's distance was 109yds.
2ft. 3in. short of the 12 miles
which officials announced had
been covered by three runners
in the world, r including the
Czech Erriil Zatopek.
“Bookie’s Dog”: Last May I
suggested here that Victorian
dairyfarmer Neville Sayers,
though a novice at the
pentathlon, might improve
tremendously before the Games.
Sayers recently won the Vic-
torian pentathlon with 4016
points, just nine points under
the world-record—after spending
five weeks laid-up with a kidney
complaint! He’d now rank as
one of v our best prospects for a
gold-medal.


U.S. View of Our Bush Ballads
"Verse of the Australian Frontier”
By HENRY W. WELLS
SELDOM does a single book
or the discriminating
research of one or two
persons uncover and define
a whole fruitful field of litera-
ture hitherto virtually unknown.
This, however, is in substance
the achievement of one of the
most striking collections. of
poetry in a popular tradition to
be published in several years, a
volume whose title has an air
of remoteness but whose con-
tents are surprisingly inviting.
Australian Bush Ballads, ,a
gathering of well over 200 titles,
selected by Douglas Stewart and
Nancy Keesing, presents verse' of
much more than local interest
and only to a small degree in
accord' with the already well-
known features ,of popular
ballad-poetry.
Unique conditions in Aus-
tralia, or at least in certain
parts of it, provided the ground
for this new type of poetry,
partly in the old ballad tradition,
partly lyrical, partly narrative,
in important respects Victorian,
but, in general, a surprisingly
fresh accomplishment.
These poems are of the golden
age of the Australian frontier,
when this continental land
became conscious of its own
importance as a country devoted'
to a flourishing animal hus-
bandry and to prospect-mining,
but before it was seriously
influenced by industrialism,
urbanism, or modernism in any
of its aspects, cultural, moral
or psychological.
For a brief period almost
unique conditions obtained. This
was not, socially considered, an
exceptionally happy period, for
it was one of severe growing-
pains, of much confusion and
frustration ; yet lines of
dramatic contrast were deeply
drawn and a poetic expression
with tragic power and comic
gusto, force and directness,
created work both of peculiar
quality and marked integrity.
Although the language of
these poems is, broadly speak-
ing, that of a potent, straight-
forward English speech, rising
at times to distinction, the style
as a whole bears a new inflec-
tion.
As so often in the case of a
popular art, a sociological
approach, at least to begin with,
proves inevitable. This poetry
simply does not comply with the
familiar classifications of verse
in other times and lands. At
the root of the matter is the
almost classless character, cul-
turally considered, of Australian
society toward the close of the
last century.
The low was not so
depressingly low as might be
supposed and the high was cer-
tainly astonishingly low from the
point of view of social or literary
sophistication. A fair number
of literate adventurers reached
“the bush,” but few literary
connoisseurs reached even the
largest cities. The poetry
expressing such a society is,
hence,, essentially classless, and
in this regard distinct from that
produced elsewhere.
Until 1900 almost all Aus-
tralian verse of consequence
arose from a cultural frontier,
where the main forces of
Western civilisation had not as
yet established themselves. Folk
traditions were influences, not
entities achieved. Literary
traditions were also felt, but
equally lacking in compelling
power.
Enough validity arose in the
native field, based on apparently
slight but by no means
negligible resources, to produce
noteworthy creations. These
poets were wholly without pre-
tentions. So the best of them,
A. B. Paterson, prefaces his
Collected Poems with a disarm-
ing address in verse to the
reader, stating that he has versi-
fied tales and incidents of the
frontier that are to this extent
grounded on reality, but in his
own versions—or in any other
—are presumed without serious
artistic worth. Many of Pater-
son’s poems are actually worth
much more than he was willing
to admit, even to himself.
The sudden burgeoning of the
ballads arose with the first period
of robust social living on the
continent and declined as this
pioneer life yielded to the more
familiar and placid mentality of
Australia’s later norm, the
lower-middle-class, the class
which that brilliant Australian,
James McAuley, describes as
“the bargain-basement of the
earth.”
The ballads represent, then,
a middle-of-the-road poetry, not
a middle-class poetry. They are
objective without superficiality
and direct and simple without
banality or insipidity.
How relatively little the bush
ballad owes to any one man
and how truly it constitutes a
movement is further indicated
by the wide spread of its author-
ship. Nearly 15 per cent, of the
poems are anonymous, and
several are by authors known
only by picturesque pseudonyms.
Many men were writing credit-
ably. In this respect, at least, a
folk element prevails. Not the
example of a single leader, as
the admirable J. E. Liddle, but
the spirit of a period determines
its course. The style was estab-
lished by a frontier in culture,
not by a single enterprising
individual.
It would be hard to discover
a body of verse more strictly
“Listen, Mat, this bloke rhymes .‘muddy’ with a bloody
dash. That ain’t right, is it?”
dated and yet one that in its
stark simplicity promises less to
decay with years to come.
The style grew out of use by
the First World War and
violently out of fashion by the
Second. Yet, in Dylan Thomas’s
words, “after the first death
there is no other.” Sound work-
manship proves of lasting value.
This body of verse is wholly
without vulgarity in the most
valid sense of that word.
Naturally, some few years ago
the most articulate elements in
Australian taste revolted against
it. Bourgeois sentimentalists
found it crude ; the avant-garde
found it prosaic. A new culture,
or, rather, new waves in culture,
demanded a new literature.
Although modernist Aus-
tralian poetry is neither more
nor less successful than might
be supposed, almost all typical
marks of modernism have for
a considerable time been present.
So it would be difficult to find
a more profoundly decadent
writer than the first distinguished
Australian poet of any sophisti-
cation, the studiously cosmo-
politan Christopher Brennan.
For delicacy of touch, few
lyricists surpass John Shaw
Neilson ; for smart satire few
rival A. D. Hope; for sophisti-
cation few excel the eminently
self-conscious Harold Stewart.
No one can well be a more
respectable aesthete than Robert
David Fitz Gerald. At least a
score of Australian poets have
mastered the ironical idioms of
20th-century language. The
contrast afforded by these men
when placed beside the poets
represented in the ballad
anthology provides a startling
manifestation of historical
change.
The so-called “bush ballads”
—though a majority of them are
neither in the strictest sense
ballads nor of the bush —now
form a lasting monument to a
completed chapter of history
and a permanent, if minor,
treasure in the wide accumula-
tions of English poetry. They
may at almost any time be
inspiration to a poet who reads
the English tongue, but it may
even be questioned whether they
still exercise a really appreciable
force on' Australian literature
itself. Douglas Stewart
remarks that few 20th-century
poets have made any perceptible
use of these ballads with the
minor exception, perhaps, of
Louis Esson (1879-1943).
Some poets sympathetically
attuned to the feelings of the
common man, as Kenneth
Slessor, may possibly be men-
tioned in this regard. And per-
haps the most powerful poet
now writing in Australia, Judith
Wright, achieves the near-
miracle of making firm art of
nostalgic sentiment, for she
bases much of her poetry on her
own early impressions of an
Australian outback untouched
by modernism or “progress.”
Her “Bullocky,” one of the
most striking and widely admired
poems thus far written in Aus-
tralia, may be interpreted as a
tribute piously erected to the
Australian frontier that created
the art now preserved in the
ballad anthology.
In short, though the best
poems of the frontier can never
decline to the state of mere
museum-pieces, they are too
removed from subsequent con-
ditions to exercise a concerted
pressure on literaturfe even in
their own country. It may well
be that they will ultimately find
more active admirers outside
than inside their homeland.
The chief features of the
poems even when viewed more
intimately are strikingly clear
and invite no elusive terms for
their description. This is one
of the last impressive bodies of
narrative poetry. Honesty,
frankness and directness con-
stitute the prevailing qualities
of this comparatively austere
writing. Without being in the
least oblique or difficult, the
expression generally preserves a
strict economy. There is no
surfeit of metaphor, no com-
plex of literary allusion or
symbolical system.
The picture of life is un-
commonly harsh. One receives
an impression that the frontiers-
men enjoyed poems partly to
ease the pressure of an almost
unbearable hardship.
A limitation in both vision and
sensibility undeniably arises
from (he lack of self-conscious-
ness and from the comparative
sparsity of the poet’s involve-
ment with women or with the
complex of emotions constitut-
ing family life, that focus of
so vast an amount of poetry
in more normally developed
cultures. Nature and animated
Nature, landscape and animals,
pressed more imperatively on
the frontiersmen than social or
political problems—though some
of their economic problems are
reflected in their verses.
But there were gains for
poetry as well as losses. The
elemental or stark character of
the life favored the poetic. An
intimacy with Nature and even
with man proceeded from a life
apparently limited in its scope
but intensified by the very con-
finement of its flow. Those
primary aspects of poetic experi-
ence, tragedy and comedy,
emerge with startling clarity.
Sentimental evasions, the cliches
of vulgar, herd-driven mankind,
weigh less heavily upon the
actual herdsmen than on the
convention-ridden townsmen or
city-dwellers, who were them-
selves so shortly to become their
own herds driven by their
infatuated politicians.
At least a dozen poems of
great tragic force appear. These
are, for example, “The Ballad
of the Drover,” depicting death
descending at the moment of
promised triumph ; “The Pride
of McTague,” revealing the
classical image proud man
overestimating his strength;
“Talbragar,” with its fine irony
of one calamity following upon
another’s heels’; “The Death of
Peter Clark,” with the inspired
ambivalence of its image of the
bandit and the honest farmer
clasped impartially in death;
“His Last Stage,” a tender but
powerful evocation of the
tragedy of age ; “The Charcoal
Pan,” with its almost unbearably
moving picture of disaster fall-
ing with muffled tread on a
humble family; “God-
Forgotten,” a picture of fatal
blight descending upon an entire
town ; “The Ring of r Death,”
powerfully depicting the extinc-
tion of all but two of a primitive
tribe, the pathetic survivors being
an old man and a boy; and
that amazingly sensitive and
harrowing poem on the death of
a herd of wild horses, “Dead-
Horse Gate.”
The introduction indicates
that the editors have omitted
■some melodramatic pieces as
well as poems overdampened by
false sentiment. From the
childishness of the American
wild-west film or pulp-story the
poems culled here remain largely,
if not wholly, free.
That the story of suspense
may be as firm art as the lyric of
sentiment is shown, for example,
in A. L. Gordon’s rousing,
“Wolf and Hound,” and still
more clearly in Edward Dyson’s
fine narrative of/the death that is
averted in a mine catastrophe,
“The Rescue,” a poem dignified
by truth.
Excitement in the first of these
two ballads may well be manu-
factured, but at least it is skil-
fully manufactured. This frank
thriller is at least a minor work
of art. Complete honesty and a
vivid sense for the real wholly
save the second poem from the
accusation of melodramatic
cliche. When it was written the
frontier spirit was still too fresh
to necessitate merely meretricious
expression. The brigands, police-
men, herdsmen and miners of
such Australian poems as these
are real; they should not be
confused with the unabashed
confections of an entertainment-
industry.
Approximately half of the
poems are either pure tragedy
or tragedy deflected into some
neighboring vein. The other half
fall within the spacious
orbit of comedy. On the
whole, the best of this second
large group exhibit a strong
infusion of the grotesque. There
are tales of phantom mobs of
cattle, of wild orgies of drunken-
ness, of intoxicated birds or
animals, of a sheep-dog that
herds flies into a bottle, of a
kangaroo causing confusion
among a group of girls, and of
another kangaroo, that, after
decapitation by a whiplash,
carries its head in its pouch. A
flood capriciously deposits the
skeleton' of a horse in a tree-top.
One discovers that there is
something inveterately grotesque
in the spirit of Nature in
Australia, whether in life or
death.
There are good arid gay pieces
on horse-racing and drinking.
“The Christening” resembles a
Dutch painting ; it is a tale of
an hilarious baptism in a large
family inhabiting a dark,
crowded cottage, where, amidst
the general confusion, an Irish
priest baptises a pig instead of
the youngest child.
The frontier at times mocks
itself, as when, in “The Mystery
Man,” any old codger may be
o Continued on page 34)
Columbia University,
New York,
May 27, 1956.
Dear “Bulletin,”
You will not, 1 hope, think
it officious that l am sending
you with this note a review-
article on the collection of
Australian bush ballads.
For some years I have been
attentive to the poetry of the
chief British Dominions,
publishing two critical books
in Canada and a number of.
articles on the general subject,
including a brief account of
New Zealand poetry. I have
been invited to lecture at A us-
tralian universities, but
unhappily 1 have been unable
to free myself from obliga-
tions in my own country.
Perhaps Australian readers
may be interested in what an
American may derive from
your ballads ?
HENRY W. WELLS.


Fatih in th e
Future
\i^„
0
“To sleep under the stars” is an experience
close to the heart of any Australian.
It was my own experience recently, when 1
camped overnight with the branding plant at Haast
Camp on our own station, 4400 square miles in
area, near Alice Springs.
More than 17,000 head of Herefords and
Shorthorns run on the property, so the men were
busy. Needless to say, the mustering and branding
did not extend to the camels and horses that run
wild there, remnants of the old teams that served
so faithfully until the coming of cars and trucks.
Actually there are two adjacent properties,
about equal in size. Through one of them the
Palmer River runs; and through the other,
Henbury, the Finke flows from end to end, giving
permanent water.
The railhead, fewer than fifty miles away,
provides easy access to the Adelaide market, and is
an additional safeguard in drought.
Then, to conserve rainwater and to balance
the feeding areas on the property, heavy earth-
moving equipment has been brought in and dams
have been built; and after just over one inch of
rain in the month before I was there, many of the
dams were full and the pastures were green.
Petrol and Diesel traction is certainly playing
a big part now in Australia’s rural production.
In Adelaide earlier this year I saw 700 of our
steers sold at good prices. The total yarding for
the Adelaide sales that day was 2300 cattle. In
Chicago just a year before I had seen a yarding of
11,000 —five times as many.
I believe the day will come when Australia
will be marketing many more beef cattle, for both
home and world consumption.
Water, good pastures, transport: that is the
combination. I have seen it working on our
Central Australian property—as clearly as the stars
were shining that night I spent at the branding
camp.
eetiux,
What makes a man
succeed
“After years of observing hu-
man nature, I have concluded
that two qualities make the
difference between a leader and
a man of average performance.
Everyone was born with them —
but most of us have allowed
them to wither in us.”
In September Reader's Digest
a leading executive reveals
these two priceless assets, and
suggests how you can reawaken
them within yourself.
“The girl who became Marilyn
Monroe”, another September
feature, brings you the life
story of the scared, unwanted
child who grew up to be a
modern Aphrodite. Thirty-three
articles of lasting interest in
this month’s issue: wonderful
reading value at only 2/-, from
your newsagent of bookstall.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"COLONIALISM"
APPARENTLY for the benefit
mainly of those Americans
who still look cross-eyed at
British “colonialism,” a recount-
ing by Earl De La Warr of the
British record in this regard was
lately published by the New York
“Herald Tri&une” and, sub-
sequently, by “U-S. News and
World Report.”
“The simple fact,” Earl De
La Warr commented, “is that
there has been no empire in the
history of the civilised world that
has done so much as has the
British Empire to promote free
political and legal institutions
among its dependent peoples”:
“Why do we talk of both
Commonwealth and Empire?
The first consists of territories
already given their full independ-
ence and the second of those
over which our Parliament still
maintains at least some control,
usually in the realm of defence
and foreign policy and of
ultimate internal security. The
Commonwealth territories
include the United Kingdom
itself, Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, South Africa, India,
Pakistan and Ceylon, with a
total population approaching
550 million.
“The Federated States of
Malaya and both the Gold Coast
and Nigeria in West Africa are
very close to achieving full
sovereignty ; and it is hard to
believe that when \this has
happened the Federation of
Northern and Southern Rhodesia
and Nyasaland will not soon
follow suit. If and when these
four territories become fully
self-governing, they would add
nearly 45 million to the popula-
tion of the Commonwealth, with,
of course, a corresponding reduc-
tion in the population of the
colonies.
“There are 49 separate
colonies or ‘dependent territories’
today (including Malaya, the
Gold Coast, etc.), with a total
population of 82 million. All
but a few have their own Legis-
lative Councils, which were
originally nominated by the
Governor from colonial officials
and local residents.
“One of the first steps we take
in building up political responsi-
Greensboro ( U.S.A .) “Daily News
“GO ON—I'M BACKING YOU UP, COMRADE."
bility is to provide for an elected
majority on the Legislative
Council and then to provide for
the Governor’s Executive
Council to be composed increas-
ingly of elected members. As
almost every colony presents
different problems —racial, religi-
ous, historic and economic—
none of them has precisely the
same Constitution as any other.
“Thus, at this very moment,
Tanganyika is now in process of
working-out a new multiracial
Constitution with a majority of
elected members; Malta is
about to hold an election on
whether to have closer integra-
tion with this country [Britain]
to the extent of sending two or
three Members of Parliament to
Westminster. In Kenya an
experiment in multiracial gov-
ernment is being made with a
majority of elected members to
th«f Legislative Council and with
local European, Asian and
African Ministers.
“It is not necessary to go
through the whole list of our
[Britain’s] colonies, for it would
be the same story every time,
but with necessary variations
for the fantastically differing
circumstances with which we
have to deal. There is, in fact,
no set pattern, but there is one
very definite motif, namely, the
steady promotion of political
and individual freedom.
“We feel that this is a great
record of which we can be
proud. We> are frankly amazed
when we are told that, in spite
of it, those whom we think of
as friends and allies still speak
disparagingly of our out-of-date
‘colonialism,’ even to the extent
of being prepared, apparently, to
see us relinquish vantage-points
that are in fact vital to us, to
them and to the forces of the
free world.
“It becomes more and more
clear that self-government and
democracy are not always the
same thing. Indeed, they may be
in direct conflict with one
another. Premature self-govern-
ment may result in establishing
a small oligarchy or dictator-
ship. Then, where there is great
racial division, it must be
remembered that tolerance is a
product of age and experience.
“In India, where we did the
right thing too quickly, between
one- and two-million deaths
resulted from the outbreaks of
violence between Hindus and
Mohammedans. In the Sudan,
governed as it is from the North,
chaos, following a period of
slaughter, exists in the South,
which is a primitive area
administered peacefully in the
past by solitary British officials.
Both the Gold Coast and
Nigeria have similar racial divi-
sions. In Kenya we have Euro-
peans, Africans, Indians and
Arabs ; and in addition there
are century-old hostilities be-
tween African tribes.
“The decision, therefore, to
go a little steady in surrender-
ing ultimate responsibility for
security in this area is not due
to our hanging on to out-of-date
colonialism but because we afe
determined to see our work
brought to a successful issue.
“If our friends and allies
understand our position and
give us at least their moral sup-
port it will be easier for us ; but
both expediency and principle
make it vital for us to stand
firm even if we stand alone.”
U.S. and Suez
American interests in Suez, as
summed-up by “New York
Times”:
“Some of these interests
measured in money probably
would outweigh the canal.
According to a United Nations
study, the Middle East con-
tains two-thirds of the crude-
petroleum reserves of the world
and is already producing about
one-fifth of the world output of
crude oil and natural gasoline.
Of the proved reserves, com-
panies controlled by the United
States dominate about two-thirds.
As a result we [the U.S.] may
feel concerned when rumors
come of‘ Arab ambitions, in-
fluenced or directed by President
Nasser, to nationalise the oil in
the Middle East.
“The private citizen in the
United States may not be too
deeply concerned as to the fate
of American or international
oil-companies. He may not
realise what a catastrophe it
might be if these investments
were to be confiscated or subject
to sale at less than their value.
In such a case the flow of risk-
capital into underdeveloped
countries would be likely to
shrink, with resulting damage
to many millions of persons out-
side the United States.
“But the oil of Arabia is more
than a basis for returns on invest-
ment capital. It is more than
a fabulous amount of wealth
poured into the hands of Arab
rulers such as the Sheikh of tiny
Kuwait, who takes $250 million
a year. Oil is the lifeblood of
trade upon the sea. It is a basic
necessity in those Western Euro-
pean countries which in 1955
were taking close to 100-million
metric tons of crude petroleum
annually.”
Hon. Father Christmas
New York “Herald Tribune”
comment on the news that
“Santa Claus” brand rolled-oats
of Chinese manufacture is now
appearing in the markets of
Thailand, along with many
Chinese products, including
cheap bicycles, soap, toothpaste
and beer:
“Why the Chinese should pick
Santa Claus to promote their
wares is a mystery. For some, it
must smack of the Western in-
fluence Peking has so long
denounced. For the great mass
of South-east Asians, St. Nick
cannot mean very much. Never-
theless this odd bit of commercial
enterprise symbolises the deter-
mination of the Chinese to
capture markets which free-world
goods have hitherto occupied.
And capturing a market, no
matter how limited, is the first
step in economic penetration.
“The trouble is that Chinese
goods, manufactured by forced
labor for the purposes of State
policy, can always be made to
undersell any others. If the
current Chinese trade-drive ex-
pands on a serious scale, it will
take all the experience and in-
genuity of the free world to
prevent South-east Asia from
being absorbed into Peking's
economic sphere.”
The Atom in Britain
Edinburgh “Scotsman,” paint-
ing a rosy atomic future for the
U.K.:
“Now the future has crept up
on us faster than anyone could
foresee. What scientists a few
years ago held out cautiously as
a theoretical goal has become
strictly calculable, a question of
cost, a question of dates. There
can be no mistaking the tone of
the report which the Atomic
Energy Authority now presents
to the British public.
“It is the tone of triumphant
achievement in a milestone-
year, a year that has brought the
glittering promise of the atom
within our measurable grasp.
“It will be at least four or five
years, the report says, before
electricity can be produced from
nuclear energy on a strictly com-
mercial basis in any country.
Four or five years is little enough
time to prepare, considering the
magnitude of the change. For
when the atom has been brought
down to a strictly commercial
basis it is only a matter of time
before it becomes the main
source of industrial energy.
“For Britain the atomic adven-
ture is almost a necessity of life.
Having made ourselves depen-
dent on industry, and incurred
the population-increase of an
industrial Power, we are con-
demned for ever to earn our
living at the point of most intense
competition. Atomic eftergy was
a lifesaver for our economy, and
the opportunity has been
grasped.
“Now, by the kind of miracle
with which British inventive and


THE “WILD CAT* 9
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ** 2} r
Yearly 22/.G
FORDSON MAJOR
forms Australia-
NOT TOO BIG - NOT TOO SMALL -
Fordson Major is right for broadacre or small
farm alike. Its engineering is absolutely practical,
its power is absolutely adequate and its versatility
is absolutely time and labour-saving. Its price,
low running costs and the availability of service
and genuine parts combine to mean both lower
capital investment and lower upkeep. That is
the kind of power-farming equipment you need
for it means profit to you.
> HYDRAULICS-WITH NEW MEANING
Fordson Major’s “touch-control” hydraulics—
and a range of. tillage implements and many-job
equipment matched to this completely modern
system of one-man operation—mean power
farming in its newest, most labour-saving form.
Available, too, is Fordson’s NEW Remote
Control Kit which' in implements or equipment
■ where remote hydraulic control can be used,
applies it whether the unit is mounted or trailing.
More than 50% of all wheeled
tractors purchased in the over 30
belt horse power class are
FORDSON MAJOR!
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
%
H
W
m
?.T-
-. 4
w
iftiitf
VtViVj«Vjv • VA* >VI
mmm
h&& u
am
CM
Australia’s greatest name in
modern, low-cost power farming
□DCs*
FM150
Your Fordson Dealer will supply further details
LISTEN TO THE FORD SHOW ON ANY OF THE 65 STATIONS IN THE NATION-WIDE WEEKLY BROADCAST
constructive genius every so often
astonishes the nation at large, we
are among the leaders in the race
to produce electricity from
nuclear heat. It may be that
there is an optimum size for an
atomic enterprise—America’s is
very much bigger' than ours —
or that our scientists made a
more intelligent choice in decid-
ing what reactors were worth
concentrating on.
“At all events we are in the
running for the export-market of
the century.”
Indonesian Debts
Press-comment on Indonesia’s
repudiation of its £B6-million
indebtedness to Holland:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“With a stroke of the pen one
Government, against the advice
of its experts, embezzles some
£B6 million belonging to another
country. The Indonesians them-
selves claim to have written-off
£366 million. The object df the
operation appears to be to steal
the headlines with the biggest
piece of brigandage of the day,
like criminals who exaggerate
their crime so as to achieve the
maximum publicity. What
Cairo and Djakarta do today
other countries will no doubt be
doing tomorrow.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “At the
conference in 1949 when a settle-
ment of the long struggle
between the two countries was
at last reached, Holland had
waived all claims on some 2000-
million guilders pf debts which
it had accumulated in paying for
the war.
“But the bitter conflict over
New Guinea has made Indonesia
anxious to erase the past in its
own way. In February it repudi-
ated the economic and political
ties with Holland which the con-
ference had left. Debt-repudia-
tion was a logical next step, and
in Djakarta, where a raucous
press had been urging the
Government to emulate Nasser,
the plunge was taken. Studiously
returning to the legal position of
1949 and ignoring Holland’s
seven-year-old ‘gift,’ the Indo-
nesian Government declared that
it still owed Holland over 3000-
million guilders of ‘war’ debts as
well as the pre-war ones and then
knocked the Aunt Sally down.”
The same: “The Dutch have
taken their real as well as their
imaginary losses quietly. Until
last February, repudiation of
debts would have come as a
nasty shock, for Indonesia had
been a good debtor since 1949.
But when Indonesia then
renounced its economic and
political ties with Holland, it
also stopped servicing its debts.
Repudiation has been painful
for the Dutch, but it has not
been a great surprise. They have
not considered reprisals, for
Indonesia’s assets in Holland are
minute; and the losses suffered
last week are small compared to
those which nationalisation of
Dutch interests in Indonesia
could inflict.
‘The threat of nationalisation,
indeed, remains a much more
fundamental worry to the
Dutch than the loss of their
debts. Fortunately, on the Indo-
nesian side, despite the violent
emotions which still burn and the
steady and irritating pressure on
foreign firms, the Government
remains anxious to attract
foreign capital; and Dutch busi-
nesses still predominate in im-
portant branches of the
economy.”
* * *
£d i n burg h “ Scotsman”:
Countries in dire straits have
been known to repudiate all their
debts, but note that Indonesia
does not risk angering her more
powerful creditors, America,
Canada and Australia. Debts to
these will be paid. Such vindic-
tive discrimination against one
country, however natural it may
seem in terms of nationalist
reeling, is an affront to the
sanctity of agreements.”
London “New Statesman”:
“The timing of Indonesia’s
decision to write-off her debts to
Holland'was presumably influ-
enced by President Nasser’s
nationalistic financial policy. The
two countries have long been
closely connected through their
common Islamic faith, and when
Nasser was elected President, the
Indonesian Prime Minister
expressed in his congratulatory
telegram the hope that his ‘well-
known spirit will inspire the
Arab world as well as Asia and
Africa.’
“The high-handed account-
ancy involved in repudiating
debts to Holland (however debat-
able some of them may be) may
win the President and the P.N.I.
[lndonesian Nationalist Party]
congratulations from many of
the Bandoeng Powers and
applause from emotional crowds,
but in the long run Indonesia’s
economy may be handicapped by
this hasty step, and the President
may find that he has unleashed
extremist forces he will find
difficult to control.”
Defence Costs
Science having prodded
defence-costs into astronomical
figures, it is natural enough, as
London “Observer” notes, that
“every major Power has become
increasingly preoccupied this
year with its future defence-
policy,” particularly in regard to
possible economies.
The problem, as the
“Observer” puts it, is that “the
economics of modern warfare
are getting out of control”:
“The cost of developing and
producing nuclear weapons and
guided-missiles is so great that
if a nation decides to give its
scientists a free hand, and at the
same time to maintain its con-
ventional forces, its defence-bill
will rise to a point that is either
economically or politically insup-
portable, or both.
“For the Russians the problem
has so far been relatively easy:
they have decided to concen-
trate on new weapons by
drastically pruning their obsolete
and unnecessarily large ground-
forces. The United States, with
a buoyant economy, can still
devote a higher proportion of her
national income to defence than
any other Western nation,
though for a mixture of political,
economic and strategic reasons,
she is following the same trend.
“For Britain, the problem of
the rising cost of defence is much
harder to solve. Unlike Russia,
we have little superfluous fat in
our conventional forces. Our
general economic position is far
more precarious than that of the
United States. But we alone of
'the European Powers have heavy
Imperial or ‘cold-war’ com-
mitments around the world
which cannot be abrogated,
though they can be pruned. For
us there is no easy answer.”
Agreeirig largely with the
“Observer” view on the general
inclination for the nations to
economise on defence, “New
York Times” writer C. L. Sulz-
berger lists “three reasons for
this general tendency”:
“The first is awareness that
costly new weapons no longer
place a premium upon huge
armies. The second is the
general, if imprecise, feeling
that danger of serious conflict
has become more remote even
though desperate problems
remain unsolved. And the third
is* realisation that during com-
petitive coexistence it may be
preferable to risk weakening
military security in favor of
economic security.”
There is, however, Sulzberger
adds, the danger “that thp
democracies may respond too
rapidly to these apparently
logical forces and, by so doing,
weaken their diplomatic posi-
tion” :
“While military and economic
logic favors large cuts in Anglo-
American manpower, what
might be their political effect?
The defence posture of our Con-
tinental allies remains far from
satisfactory. West Germany’s
pledged rearmament is ‘less
certain than might appear.
France, involved in North
African insurrection, is almost
a/ European military vacuum.
From Iceland to Greece, interest
in Nato unity slackens.
“If the two strongest North
Atlantic Powers rely more upon
strategic airpower and less on
defending Continental borders,
the political impact may be bad.
Western Europe is already con-
cerned by faint straws in the
wind: appointment of an Ameri-
can air-general as Allied com-
mander ; reduction in our
European stockpiles ; evidently
increased United States interest
in defence of the Iberian penin-
sula. And now there is talk of
eventually withdrawing much of
the British and American garri-
son from the Continent.
“It is therefore useful that
we [the U.S.] and Britain have
reassured the Nato council of
our plans. Despite military and
economic logic favoring stream-
lined defence, we cannot ignore
the worries of our allies. They
would be shocked if we tended
toward new forms of isolation-
ism, a Fortress America, pledged
only to liberate Europe in the
event of war. The task of our
diplomacy is to assuage these
fears ; and of our planning, to
recognise their validity.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Conservatorium Director
The appointment of Sir Bernard Heinze
as Director of the N.S.W. State Con-
servatorium is good news. He has all that
it takes to make a success of it —consider-
able musical equipment, personality and
plenty of practical experience. There’s
but one possible fly in the ointment —Sir
Bernard is 62 ; will he be expected to
retire at the end of a term of about three
years? If so, the sands will have run out
before he even begins to see the results of
his work.
Of the four directors who have guided
the destinies of the Con. since its founda-
tion in 1914, only two —Orchard and
Bain ton —made it a full-time job.
Yerbrugghen and Goossens were also
employed with outside conducting and
frequently (sometimes for months at a
stretch) were obliged to delegate their
Conservatorium duties to others. One
imagines this was not always in the best
interests of the institution, but it appears
to be the price we must expect to pay if
the position is offered to world-famous
conductors.
Dr. W. Arundel Orchard was director
from 1923 to 1934, and during his term
was faced with all the difficulties of the
worst years of the depression. Just when
things began to look-up again the time
came for him to retire. Dr. Orchard was
succeeded by Dr. Edgar L. Bainton, who
carried on till 1946, when he in turn had-
to make way for a successor, this time
Goossens.
Too old (in the opinion of the powers-
that-be) to direct the affairs of the Con.,
Orchard yet managed to hold down an
important position in a Tasmanian
university for years afterwards and could
just as capably have continued with the
Sydney work. The same can be said of
Bainton —for the past 10 years he has
led a strenuous life teaching music in its
higher branches, adjudicating at front-
rank festivals and examining for royal-
chartered British academies. Members of
the Conservatorium professorial staff
"I didn't know you could play."
hang on there till they’re old and
withered ; only the director, it seems, is
too ancient at 65.
Toscanini, Battistini, Vaughan Williams
and other prominent ones have continued
with notable work well into their seventies
and eighties, and it is unfair —indeed,
ridiculous —to suggest that men like
Orchard, Bainton and Heinze are incap-
able of doing likewise. The head of a
great musical-training school needs not
three, 11 or 12 years to impress the stamp
of his standards and ideals upon it. He
needs 20 or 30 yetfrs.
Sir Bernard, it is reported, will not be
free at first to devote all his time to the
Con. He is to take charge of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra until a new
conductor is appointed—by all accounts
another maestro isn’t going to be found
overnight. So once again the Con. will
have to put up with a part-time director
for a bit. It’s not good enough ; the place
requires its leader’s entire attention, and
for a long time.
One can only hope that the N.S.W.
Premier will show the good sense to allow
Heinze a lengthy term as director.
Achievements of many Con. students
have been far from negligible; the
institution compares favorably with lead-
ing British and American academies, and
it deserves inspiring, continuous leader-
ship.— Maitri (N.S.W.).
Why Wireless-licences?
Going a bit further than “Ichabod
Crane” (B. 4/7/’56), why not abolish
wireless-licences altogether?
The wireless-licence was introduced
when broadcasting was in its infancy and
the Commonwealth Government was
providing a service for a small minority
of the population—mainly the wealthier
section and the young chaps who liked to
play around with this new and fascinating
hobby.
Radio is pow regarded as one of the
essentials in the home, and, in fact, is
inextricably bound-up with our daily life.
In providing broadcasting-services the
Government is meeting a public and
general need, the cost of which would
be more appropriately borne by general
revenue.
The wireless-licence system is cumber-
some and inequitable in operation. Its
collection, involving the mailing of notices
and reminders to practically all house-
holders, must be costly. It is extremely
difficult to police the system, and wide-
spread evasion is likely. Further, the cost
of the licence puts an unfair burden on
some people, while it is a negligible
expense to others.
Finally, the loss to Government
revenue by the abolition would be only
£4 million —insignificant compared with
the sums spent by the Government in far
less useful ways. Why not abolish the
licence, save on the staff, records and
red-tape, and let all taxpayers bear the
cost according to their means? — Ardoyne
(Vic.).
New Northern State
Clem Lack (B. 6/6/’56) tries to prove
that economic facts are against a new
State in North Queensland, particularly
at the present stage of population and
development.
Does he realise that our present
population is approxi-
mately equal to that of
Tasmania during the mid-
-1940’5, at which time the
Speck had enjoyed self-
government for upwards
of 120 years? Does he
realise that in 1952-53,
the new-State area, con-
taining 17.8 per cent, of
Queensland’s popula-
tion, produced 25 per
cent, of the State’s total
wealth ; that the value of
production for that
period was equal to
Queensland’s total
'production for
1941-42 near
enough to equal
that of W.A. for
1949-50, and con-
siderably better
than that of Tas-
mania for 1952-
53? The produc-
tion per head in
the new-State area
in 1952-53 was
£357, against £263
for Queensland or £242 for the rest of
Queensland.
Clem Lack’s public-debt figure of
£249 4s. 3d. per head is no bogy—it would
compare favorably with the 1953 figures
for S.A. (£249 14s. 7d.), W.A.
(£246 13s. lOd.) and more than favorably
with Tasmania (£276 12s. 10d.).
The claim that the new-State revenue
would amount to £74 17s. 7d. per head
and expenditure to £76 9s. lid., thus leav-
ing a deficit of £380,462 on the first year’s
operation, does not tally with figures for
other States. Tasmania, with a high per v
capita indebtedness, spent only £3B Is. 6d.
per head in 1951-52, whereas N. S. Wales,
with a per capita indebtedness of approxi-
mately £lOO less, topped all States with an
expenditure of £52 17s. 4d. The all-States
average was £5O 2s. lOd.
Northerners are well aware of the
reduced value of the pound, but they also
know that, in 1941-42, Queensland had
no difficulty in maintaining 1,000,000
souls, and that, with a production-value
equal to Queensland’s 1941-42 level, the
North should have no difficulty in main-
taihing one-quarter of that total. —
Tommac (Q.).
Poker-machines
“Mullum” says (B. 1/ 8 / *56) that with-
out poker-machines the golf-club of
which he is a member would have to
increase its subscription by 60 per cent.
It is obvious that the profit from these
machines comes from the pockets of club-
members, and, from my observations,
it is usually those who can least afford
to lose who try to make a few shillings
the easy way. Quite a percentage of
members do not use the machines at all,
which means that “Mullum” and others
are getting their golf cheaply at the
expense- of their less fortunate or more
foolish brethren.
In any case, even if those who patronise
the machines can afford it they are obvi-
ously paying much more to club-funds
than an extra 60 per cent, of the sub-
scription.
I like an occasional gamble, but can
think of nothing more futile than , club-
members putting in money and pulling the
handle of a machine which they know is
rigged against them, and which there is
no beating.
Golf-clubs and others existed and
thrived long before these machines were
invented— Gustav W. (W.A.).
A Lean Year
New South Wales will see a shortage of
ready money in the bush this year, and
the cities might well take warning. The
facts are well enough known, but the
implications perhaps not fully realised.
Great areas of the State have been
more-or-less under water for months.
Where not actually flooded, the soil is
•sodden by rainfall already far exceeding
average annual registrations. The effects
are double-barrelled—income down and
costs up.
Thousands of sheep have died, and in
many cases it has cost a small fortune
to hand-feed the surviving flocks. Wool
has deteriorated in quality, shearing has
been delayed by flood and strike and
some wool has had to be brought out by
expensive airlift. Footrot, parasites and
fly-strike have undermined the constitu-
tion of stock, and measures to control
these infestations are costly. Floods have
destroyed fences, scoured-out lucerne-
flats, spread noxious-weed seeds far and
wide over the countryside —more expense.
In the wheat-country there is nearly as
much seed still in the bags as in the
ground. Much of the sown crop was
mucked-in on sodden soil which, by
rights, should have been left undisturbed
to recover—it will cake iron-hard in the
first dry spell and strangle the growing
crop. Growing wheat is an unhealthy,
rank yellowish-green from excessive rain
and too little sunshine, and wide open to
rust-attack.
Share-farmers, dependent entirely on
their wheat-crops, are particularly hard
hit. Their income will be nil for a year’s
work.
No one yet knotos the ultimate extent
of the flood-damage down on the Murray,
but great losses of fruit and vegetables
must be added to the tally of misfortune.
Repairs to the flood-damaged towns will
absorb funds otherwise available for
general spending.
The State will recover, as it has
recovered time and again from drought,
flood and fire, but city traders must
anticipate less prodigal spending in the
next year by the boys in the wide-
brimmed hats.—Thinkit (N.S.W.).
Ships
A. C. Hardy, the British shipping-
writer quoted in “Uncabled Additions"
(B. 1 / 8 / ’56), has a habit of advocating
the most complex forms of machinery.
Yes, they are building, particularly in
Japan, super cargo-carriers with a
capacity up to a possible 100,000 tons,
but these are exclusively for two types
of trade only—oil or ore —and between
carefully selected ports. They are not
in any sense general traders, so it might
be possible to work their hatches by
push-button from the bridge, always
assuming that a few mechanics were avail-
able behind the scenes to make certain
the buttons didn’t stick.
Hardy is right enough when he says
that a modern steam-plant of “up to
12,000 h.p. on a single shaft could be
operated, statutory considerations apart,
by four men at the most,” except that
a modern power-plant for the type of ship
mentioned runs up to' 20,000 h.p. and
drives a propeller with five or six blades,
and the statutory requirement for the
engineroom of a British ship is two men
only. How many are really needed to
keep such a job running depends on many
factors, but few seem to get away with
less than eight engineers alone.
As for that 1500-r.p.m. oil-engine driv-
ing through a gearbox or using a variable-
pitch propeller, both are in use today, but,
again, for special trades and under special
conditions. Oil-engines of that type are
not only very selective as regards fuel,
but their lubricating-oil consumption is
relatively terrific. It’s a safe bet that the
greater part of the world’s shipping is
going to chug along much as it is today
for a long time yet. — Transporticus
(Singapore).
Anzac Day March r
The decision to revert to the “old
pattern” of the Anzac Day march (B.
15/8/’56) was taken in open session b>
the 1956 R.S.L. Congress, it having vetoed
going into committee on the question.
The R.S.L. executive has nothing to do
with the march other than to organise it
according to the dictates of congress,
was the R.S.L. 1955 congress which was
responsible for the “regrettable m'X-up,
and it was the 1956 congress which as
becomes a democratic institution put
right the error. Surely a fine example
of democracy—the error righted in “e
common interest of all. — oHIPP*
(N.S.W.).


0
- x *s
AJG
4/ie and
diAbilnded fy ike fecdohind of
HENRY JONES
■'■■■■ /CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED 111 " l ™
an J Pitchen of *
JAMS • CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES . ASPARAGUS
SOUPS • FRUIT JUICES
EVAPORATED APPLES
CANNED GREEN PEAS
HOPS AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
factories and Pranch
'ranch-ei in
AUSTRALIA . NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA • ENGLAND
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
*Phenovl«' Brand of Phenothiazina
E3
TWM
§(jlApMA m !
PHENOVIS'
The effective Drench for Worms in sheep
‘Phenovis’ effectively controls the major intestinal worms in sheep.
Helps sheep resist infestation.
Helps keep pastures contamination-free.
Worm free sheep produce 25% more wool than worm infested sheep.
lnsist upon the SUPERFINE quality
'PHENOVIS'
LIQUID OR POWDER
k_JU EOn L E Ajn MA L
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
ICI
p yjECj’jojt nij Djjn
oTaustralia & new miMtfPno.
1534.PHE.61X. 4082
“Short Memories”
“C.A.L.” (B. 2/5/’56) supports the
shearing-strike with the fact that in the
early ’thirties the Queensland Govern-
ment decided that the Station Hands’
Award should be repealed.
“C.A.L.” should also recall that in those
days the average grazier, short of receiv-
ing £2 per week, was in many cases losing
much more tha nthat by merely remain-
ing on his property. In many cases these
losses amounted to hundreds of pounds
a week, and many graziers found at the
end of * the depression that they were
completely bankrupt.
I could name hundreds of graziers who,
for 15 years, never left their properties,
even for holidays. If urgent business did
require them to leave, it was necessary to
get the permission of either the banks or
the woolbroking houses.
“C.A.L.” should*also recall that while
the awards were in operation they were
religiously observed by the grazing-
industry generally, and, while there were
reductions in wages once the awards wfere
repealed, those reductions did not come
before the repeal.—One of the Losers
(Q).
Hire-purchase
Despite current high wages, it seems
that the ordinary man has to resort to
hire-purchase to acquire anything out of
the usual run of living-requirements, and
as a result Australia is now swimming in
a sea of debt. The same set-up was
observable v in the United States before
the depression of the ’thirties.
The Prime Minister’s pious request that
the acceptance-companies “play it down”
for a bit, and their equally pious
assurance that they would, has not got
us very far. Judging by the almost daily
appeals for more capital by those com-
panies, and the entrance of yet another
bank into the h.-p. field, it seems that
the business is being accelerated.
What the man-in-the-street finds diffi-
cult to swallow is the banks’ inability to
find money for customers on overdraft,
while they are yet able to find huge sums
with which to finance the h.-p. side of
their business. Customers who go into
the manager’s room, armed with all the
security in the world, find themselves
refused the usual overdraft-accommoda-
tion, but are blandly referred to the
department handling h.-p.
To say that this sort of “modern bank-
ing” is not highly inflationary is wide of
the actual facts. I wonder whether those
banks indulging in the new practice are
building huge storerooms to cope with
“ Don't just sit there like a booby, Cyril—change ends!"
the possibility of their having at some
time to “go into possession” of their new-
type . securities.
I can picture some manager surveying
the vast accumulation of cake-mixers,
cars, washing-machines, TV-sets and all
the other stuff on which they now seem
so keen to lend. Don’t tell me it can’t
happen here. It did in the U.S., and if
there’s one thing that can be relied on to
repeat itself it’s history.
Already in one large provincial city
not a thousand miles from Melbourne
there is a certain amount of unemploy-
ment and consequent difficulty for the
buyers in meeting the instalments on
that washing-machine, now regarded as
so essential for gracious living. — Harry
the Horse (Vic.).
Those two axioms quoted by “Beval”
(B. 1/8/’56) are only our old friends
supply and demand. “B.” claims, how-
ever, that they can be controlled by
juggling money, whereas in my view it is
the demand for goods that caused the
demand for a bigger volume of money,
while goods in oversupply (particularly
primary-products) lead to a fall in prices
and a recession.
“B.’s” solution is that h.-p. "companies
should be bought-out by the Government
at market-price and their 47 per cent,
gross profit lent to industry. I’m afraid
that is only wishful-thinking.
First, the staff employed would cost
the same —possibly more if run by
Government officials. Second, “B.” for-
gets that these companies pay taxation,
which would then be lost to the Govern-
ment.
The company in which I have a few
shares only pays 15 per cent, on its £1
shares, or about 7 per cent, on market-
price. Thus, out of £2,000,000 capital
it would only have £140,000 to lend to
industry, plus any undisclosed profits or
reserves.
Again, “B.” would lend such money
only to applicants who could guarantee
to reduce the price of their products.
Since the ones who could most likely do
this would be the manufacturers of
luxuries and women’s personal adorn-
ments, they would be the lucky ones. In
other words, those now making high
profits would be lent money, while those
whose profits are small would get none. —
Chips (N.S.W.).
Flood-prevention
Losses of homes, stock, produce and
capital resources, not to speak of human
lives, in the three States bordering the
Murray River have emphasised that
flood-prevention should be dealt with on
a Commonwealth basis.
The need for preventive measures, and
the nature of such measures, is fairly
widely recognised. Floods have occurred
throughout man’s recorded history, and
a vast fund of information on the means
of preventing or minimising losses is
available.
What is needed in Australia is a central
authority to plan for flood-prevention in
affected areas, to co-ordinate works
undertaken in the various States, and to
ensure that the vast sums of money
required are used to the best advantage
from the national viewpoint.
Flood-prevention is bound-up with the
problems of water-supply, irrigation and
land-use. It is a huge job, but unless it is
tackled on a big scale we can expect the
same old story —inadequate steps taken
with insufficient finance, more and bigger
floods and ever-increasing losses. —
Doynest (Vic.).


LYS
PROOF.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material,
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing .Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK tor Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
mmm
__. *?## _ 1, , _..
* w, -a ; \*■ *?. ■ V¥l
,wv • ■r,
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
- r
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pfy. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwatf Pt, Road, Five Dock
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A SHOT IN THE ARM
C|OME time back a number of
articles and pars, on mes-
quite appeared on these pages,
and a good deal of useful
information and a certain
amount of stimulating theory
came to light.
One “M.0.L.” contributor,
“F.H.C.,” wasn’t content to let
the matter rest there: he wrote
to various authorities in the
United States, was referred from
one specialist to another, and
finally collected a cartload of
information which he has
deposited at The Bulletin, with
the suggestion that it “might act
like a shot in the arm” in bring-
ing about a proper appreciation
of the danger of mesquite in
Australia.
The greater part consists of
reports from experiment-stations
in Texas (U.S.) covering a
period from 1948 to 1955. In
the earliest there is an analysis
of the general problem of the
spread of brush on Texas range-
land, with a sketch of the
historical background:
In order that we may all realise
the strength of the enemy—the scope
of the brush-control problem in
Texas —let us consider these facts.
In 1945 the money earned by Texas
farmers and ranchmen from livestock
amounted to more than $589 million,
and this sum would be substantially
greater in this year [1948] of higher
prices. This huge sum was produced
from grazing-operations on 93.5-
million acres of rangelands. But
consider the fact that some 37.5-
million acres of land in Texas have
been seriously affected by the
encroachment of various species of
noxious brush —mesquite, cedar,
prickly-pear, creosote-bush, sage-
brush, blackbrush, and many others.
It is estimated that if even half
of the land so infested had been
available for full utilisation in live-
stock-production Texas farmers and
ranchmen during 1947 would have
received an additional $18.5 million.
Marking and tailing
lambs when flies are
bad is usually inviting
trouble —unless Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
are used. Some time
ago thousands of
graziers were invited
to express an opinion
on the use of Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
in these conditions.
The result was over-
whelming recommen-
dation of the rings by
users. “Positively no
strike whatever,” was
typical comment. r
This sum represents only half of the
loss to Texans in one year caused by
the invasion of noxious brush-forms
into the once-virgin grasslands of
Texas.
When the white man first came
to Texas, he found a stockman’s
paradise. The rolling hills of
north-east and east Texas were
fairly heavily timbered, with
scattered open areas of fertile
soil suitable for cultivation. In
the central Texas region, from
the Red River to the Edwards
Plateau, the settler found more
scattered timber, with wide
stretches of prairie, thickly
covered with succulent forage-
grasses. And to the west, all the
way to the Rocky Mountains of
New Mexico, he found the
prairie rangelands—“a natural
ranch empire.”
Here and there the settler
found areas in which the present
noxious brushes grow. But “these
noxious forms were of little or
no concern to the Texas pioneers,
for the range-grasses were
dominant.” Texas rangeland at
that time was covered by forage-
grasses, which formed a thick,
tough sod, “producing nutritious
food for livestock in such
quantities as to be almost un-
imaginable to the Texan to-day.”
These grasses, with both deep
and shallow root - systems,
choked-out invaders:
Why then, we wonder, has our
Texas rangeland deteriorated —and
why has the process been so rapid?
Man, as usual, is the chief
villain. But there are other
factors: climate (drought, flood,
hard winters and the like), fire,
and wildlife. A prolonged
drought can reduce the number
of good forage-plants to such
an extent that the range is almost
laid bare to the noxious brush,
which, by reason of its deeper
root-systems, is able to withstand
the drought.
Similarly, hard winters tend
to destroy grasses over wide areas
that have \ been overgrazed.
“When these climatic variations
follow each other, as the hard
winter of 1885-86 was followed
by the widespread drouth of
1886 and it in turn was followed
by the even more bitter winter
of 1886-87, tremendous damage
is done to the sod of the range-
lands.”
Floods and windstorms also
play a part, spreading the seed.
And floods are likely to spread a
layer of silt, which makes an
ideal seed-bed for pests.
And fire: “During frontier
times, great areas of Texas range
were fired, sometimes by natural
means, often by Indians or by
the advancing white man. These
early prairie fires were most
spectacular affairs. They often
covered thousands of acres and
burned for weeks, causing a pall
of smoke to hide the sun for
days at a time. Whether they
actually improved the primitive
rangelands is a question which
has caused considerable discus-
sion among range-specialists.
“Athough the early-day prairie
fires undoubtedly destroyed
many brush-forms which might
otherwise have- proved seed-
sources for range-infestation, the
fires also weakened much good
sod, and may well have laid the
range open in this manner.”
Birds, rabbits, squirrels,
coyotes, all may have helped to
spread the seed. But the chief
agent has been man, and his
“overabundance of domestic
animals.” Overstocking.
Mesquite, the report goes on to
say, is the main pest. At that
date it had infested some 55-
million acres of a total of 93.5-
million acres of potential range-
land. Infestation was relatively
light until the 1850’s.
Mesquite forms a bud-zone
which lies anywhere from a few
inches to a foot or more below
ground-level, depending on how
much soil or litter may have
accumulated at the base of the
plant. The roots spread from
below this bud-zone, and the
bud-zone itself contains a
“ That's the trouble these, days—everybody
hurrying somewhere."
number of eyelets, much like
those of the potato. An injury to
the upper part of the tree —such
as cutting the trunk, or burning
—seems to stimulate the eyelets,
which sprout, sending up as
many as a dozen or more shoots
from a single bud-zone. Hence,
it is most difficult to kill a mes-
quite by burning after it has
reached a year of age. Even
repeated burnings do not seem
to exhaust the root-node of its
eyelet-shoots, “and for this
reason it seems doubtful that the
prairie fires of the old days were
actually agents in preventing the
spread of mesquite.”
Mesquite-seeds will germinate
after passing through animals.
The thick tiirf of the early
prairies resisted seeds in the
droppings of buffalo, antelope
and early cattle, but, with over-
grazing, -the breach was made,
and a vicious cycle began: soil
was exposed to the beans, which
took root; stock ate the beans
when grass was scarce; more
beans spread, were eaten, and
spread again, with progressive
scarcity of grass.
As mesquite moves into an
area it tends to appear first in
lowlands of deep soil, later in
higher grazing-lands.
The Texas experts examine
the arguments for mesquite. The
main ones—that the beans are
good fodder (may carry stock
over a critical period) and that
the larger trees provide valuable
shade —have been advanced
here ; a third is that the deep
root-systems serve as channels
to draw underground water to
the surface in time of drought,
thus encouraging grass.
' Consider the assertion that mesquite
furnishes valuable forage. s A study
by the Southwestern Forest and Range
Experiment Statioh at Tucson,
Arizona, established that forage-
production from perennial grasses
alone on plots free of mesquite
averaged two and one-half times as
much as the total forage-production
from both mesquite and grasses on
areas containing mesquite. Hence,
with the exception of years of great
drouth, it is likely that the value of
mesquite as forage is greatly over-
estimated. And since there is no way
for the ranchman of today to com-
pare how well a virgin, mesquite-free
turf would withstand prolonged
drouth (as compared with the sparse
turf of our rangelands of today), it is
quite difficult to make any sort of a
case for the mesquite as a feed-tree in
opposition to good, heavy grasses.
As to whether mesquite holds soil-
moisture, prevents runoff or draws
moisture to the surface in time of
drouth, there is some discussion.
Studies indicate that • it requires
1,7271 b. of water to produce lib. of
dry-matter mesquite—three times as
much water as is needed to produce
lib. of little-bluestem, a valuable
grass. Mesquite-roots in older trees
may range as much as 50-75 ft. from
the base of a tree, running in all
directions. Examinations of mesquite
root-systems show these feeders from
6in. to 12in. beneath the surface of
the soil, and in even a moderate
stand of mesquite form a network of
channels which constantly remove
water and soil-nutrients from the
openings between the trees.
The whole problem of the mesquite-
infestation of our south-western ranges
may be summarised simply: Mesquite-
free soils mean more water for grass,
since it no longer is demanded by the
greedy mesquite. More water means
more grass. More grass, if not over-
grazed, means more litter on the
ground. More litter means less
puddling, less sheet-erosion, less water-
loss through runoff. Less water-loss
means more water, and still more
grass. And the steady increase in
grass means that in time a firm turf of
native forage-grasses can be produced
—a turf which, as in the early days, is
capable of utilising efficiently every
drop of rain that falls. Therefore,
it is imperative that the mesquite be
destroyed if our ranges are ever to be
restored to anything approximating
their one-time grazing-capacity.
That was in 1948. This par-
ticular publication, and others
in the collection, give recom-
mendations for control. It will
be more convenient to consider
here only the later publications ;
in particular, a bulletin prepared
by A. H. Walker and G. O.
Hoffman in 1951, and revised
by the authors in December,
1955.
Kerosene has been used for
many years for mesquite-
control. It should be applied
around the base of the tree in
sufficient quantity to penetrate
the underground buds below
the crown. This may require
one-third gallon or more of oil
for big trees. Kerosene or
diesel-oil, whichever is cheaper,
works best on sandy or gravelly
soils. On heavy soils the amount
of oil required may be exces-
sive and kills may be poor.
Kerosene is still recommended
on porous, light soils where
trees are large, single-stemmed
and occur in stands up to 100
trees per acre .‘Treat during hot
summer months when the
surface-soil is dry.
Mechanical methods, using
root-cutters, anchor-chains and
root-ploughs, give some immedi-
ate relief, but may be expensive.
Sometimes the grass-turf is torn
up and the regrowth from
broken-off trees may make the
problem worse than before. On
large, single - stemmed trees
chaining is economical and
effective. Often a combination
of mechanical and chemical
treatments may give the- most
control for the least cost per
acre per year.
Experimental work indicates
that none of the forms of 2,4-D
(about whifch hopes were held
early) is effective. But 2,4,5-T
has “definite possibilities” for
mesquite-control, as has the
herbicide silvex, which is less
hazardous to broad-leaved plants
than is 2,4,5-T. But both silvex
and 2,4,5-T are non-poisonous
to man and livestock, and do
not kill grass when applied at
the rate recommended for con-
trolling mesquite. Aerial appli-
cation is recommended as the
cheapest method. Recommenda-
tions are as follows:
Mesquite should be sprayed
with at least one-third of a
pound of 2,4,5-T or silvex,
mixed in half a gallon of diesel-
oil and enough water to make
three gallons of spray-solution
per acre. The swath-width
should not exceed 60ft.
Proper time for application is
seven to 11 weeks after the leaves
first appear in the spring. The
chemical should not be applied
when wind-velocities exceed 12
miles per hour, because of the
danger of drift. If rain falls
during the spraying-season wait
20 to 30 days to give the new
leaves a chance to develop be-
fore spraying.
Best kills are associated with
good soil-moisture and lush
growth of mesquite. If drought
comes don’t spray—results will
be disappointing. If trees are
in poor foliage (the result of
hail, frost, insects or other
causes) spraying should be
delayed or postponed until the
next year.
Equipment should be adjusted
to apply the chemical in coarse
droplets.
Control, rather than eradica-
tion, results from this method.
Judicious stocking and manage-
ment follow the treatment. Live-
stock prefer sprayed areas, and
may overgraze them, so it’s as
well to spray the whole area.
Rest treated area during the


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Ettabliihei 1878.
Head Offices' 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. ?(. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies In all Country Centres
After the Rains
ill
:
m
[> ■ ■ , ‘
i- 'm'-
} ■ •■ •••>.•••-.. ••••>....•:.. £?#>•
ill 1
What is happening to your soil now? What is going to
happen to your pasture? The soils of the eastern states
of Australia have remained waterlogged this year for
longer periods than ever before.
Everywhere soils are asphyxiated at shallow
depths from excess rain. Everywhere pastures
—improved pastures particularly—are suffering
from root rot caused by soil asphyxiation.
Under these conditions warmer weather will
• produce the perfect pasture for caterpillars, cut
worms, army worms and a host of other pests.
Infestations of these pasture destroyers could
be worse this year than ever before. Our past
experiences, confirmed by those of many
grazier friends, lead us to believe so. An
infestation could not only wipe out your new
pastures when they come, but could so foul
your soil and grass that stock may either reject
it altogether or sicken on the re-growth after
infestation has wiped out the first growth. Many
of these pests cannot survive beyond the infant
stage without grasses produced on sour soil.
Good pastures from aerated, friable, fertile
soil is food for cows and sheep, not caterpillars
and cut worms.
Obviously your soil now needs air-
urgently.
Air can best be provided by a once-over
Keyline Cultivation with the Graham Plow—
penetrating into and just beyond the dead root
At right is the Graham Plow Model J, 10 ft.
—the most popular trailing plow for average
farm tractor. Unique lifting mechanism
cannot creep. £365. (Steel wheels optional.)
May be increased to 12ft. width for addi-
tional £35, or 14 ft. for additional £7O.
Three-Point linkage models from £llO.
BUY YOUR GRAHAM ON EASY TERMS!
A small deposit secures your plow immedi*
ately. Balance is paid by easy monthly
instalments.
Write us for full particulars of the "PAY
LATER" PLAN.
THE GRAHAM PLOW —the original and genuine chisel plow—is patented through-
out the world and manufactured in Australia under licence from the Graham-Hoeme
Plow Co., Amarillo, Texas, U.S.A., by YEOMANS PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
537 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY. MX 2515. AGENTS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
zone. But—and it is an important but—wait
until the soil dries out a little.
Keyline Cultivation in the autumn (March)
is the ideal time for maximum soil and pasture
benefit for the pasture land of Victoria and
New South Wales, but the autumn has gone!
Cultivation in the spring with dry weather
following could have the effect of drying soil
to the extent of greatly restricting pasture
growth. With reasonable moisture conditions,
however, this cultivation would grow pasture
that is good, healthy stock food, not likely to
be affected by any infestation. It could be a
means of saving heavy stock losses.
This covers the present problem—what are
you going to do? Our suggestion—play safe.
Get ready to Keyline cultivate a portion of
your pasture as soon as your soil dries suffici-
ently—use your Bunyip Level for plotting the
Keyline or guide line, and your Graham Plow
for the best cultivation.
If you don't hove either of these, contact
Yeomans Proprietary Limited for quick
delivery and, if you wish, state your
problem for our comment on how much
of your country to work.
; ~r »• ...
iiw
- & %
* 1 '
A ><*
growing-season to give grasses
a chance to re-seed.
Increased carrying - capacity
may be expected after the first
year. Another spraying may be
needed in five or 10 years to
control the sprouts and new
seedlings. Re-sprouts should be
head-high before spraying again.
Small, many-stemmed brush 3ft.
to sft. high is fairly easily
killed.
* * *
“F.M.C.’s” comment:
“In view of this information,
what has happened at the little
township of Winton (Q.), on the
Diamantina River, could well
be of very grave importance.
Introduced 25 years ago as an
ornamental tree, mesquite has
surrounded the town in forest-
growth and gained a foothold
eight or nine miles upstream. It
has started to spread-out over
the Mitchell-grass flats. Trees
are reported 20 miles down-
stream.
“It is only logical to assume
that seeds are being swept in
floodwaters to the very heart of
Queensland’s famous cattle-
fattening areas in the Channel
Country. Once a few get estab-
lished there we’re in for real
trouble. The Texas warning
should be sufficient for us to
realise what we can expect if
something isn’t done about the
mesquite now. Close co-opera-
tion between State Departments
of Agriculture, C.5.1.R.0.,. local
authorities and farmers and
graziers, at this stage, could
beat the pest. But there isn’t a
great deal of time.” ■'
Silage Qualify
“Firebrace”: The fact that a
stock-food or mineral is not
necessarily good just, because the
animals like it applies particu-
larly to the quality of silage. That
fruity caramel-tasting sample is
usually an indication of over-
heating when the silage was
being made; and overheating
means loss of valuable proteins.
Excessive overheating leads to
charring.
Overheating can be avoided
best by using succulent young
pasture which can be compacted
easily with a tractor in the stack
or pit. Let the mass warm-up,
but try to keep it below llOdeg.
F.—at least below 120 deg. F.
Use a silage-thermometer to
measure the heat, don’t rely on
poking a crowbar or iron post
into the stack and seeing how hot
it gets. The cost of a ‘
thermometer —about £20 —can
be recouped in the better quality
of the sample.
More-mature grass, cereals or
other greenstuff is hard to com-
pact. Silage is generally good if
it has a pleasant but sharp smell.
Stock—especially young animals
—sometimes need training to eat
it, but the trouble is well worth
while.
Growing Tree-nuts
“Big Billy”; \ Many types of
these can be grown in Australia.
In particular, cultivation of
almonds, walnuts and the
hazel- or barcelona-nut could
be increased. Walnuts usually
grow into large trees and
are better suited to good-size
farms, but almonds and hazels
can well be planted on much
smaller mixed-farm holdings in
the form of hedges. Used also as
driveway avenues or for areas
bordering roads or plantations,
they could become a profitable
sideline.
Soil should be given thorough
preparation before planting.
Walnut-trees need to be between
45ft. and 60ft. apart, according
to areas available. If the young
trees are just rods, they should
fee cut-back to about sft. to force
branched heads well clear of the
ground. Remove all later-
developing branches lower than
this, and shorten or thin lightly,
to give good shape and balance.
Generally, almonds can be
grown anywhere peach-trees
flourish. Areas relatively free of
late frosts are preferable, as the
almond flowers earlier than other
fruit-trees. High humidity is a
disadvantage. Avoid planting
in low-lying land or heavy-clay
soils. An annual rainfall of
25in. or more is desirable. Site
should be exposed fully to the
sun and be sheltered from pre-
vailing winds.
Planting, in late autumn,
should be timed to. enable them
to become well established
before the frosty weather
develop?.
Almonds need much the same
treatment as peaches, and will
not crop well if neglected. They
will be helped by sowing cover-
crops, and by nitrogenous
fertilisers. Annual applications
of from 61b. to 81b. per tree are
advised, about half of this in
early' spring and the other half
before the last swelling of fruit
in late December or early
January. Super, is best applied
at the time the cover-crop is
sown, and may be broadcast at
from 2cwt. to 3cwt. per acre.
In summer, periodic light
irrigation of the trees, where
possible, will assure maximum
development of the nuts. Some
thinning of new growths and
cutting-out of old wood will be
necessary.
A cool climate without late
frosts is best for the hazel-nut;
also good drainage and ample
shelter from strong winds. Light
soils in low-rainfall areas are
unsuitable.
Bearing doesn’t begin until
seven or eight years, and the trees
take 12 to 15 years to reach full
production. But they have a life
of between 60 and 70 years.
They must be grown from
rooted suckers or by layering,
Small branches layered in the
, . ... , y x ~ .
autumn will have rooted suffict-
ently by the following autumn to
be transplanted to nursery rows
and grown on to develop into
suitable young trees for per-
manent planting. The same
applies to rooted suckers.
Plantings can be arranged as
hedges, or on the square as for
fruit-trees. Trees planted on the
square should be 15ft. apart
each way ;-> those planted as
hedges can be 6ft. to Bft. apart.
Prune hard in the early years
in order to develop an open-
centred tree of medium height
with abundant lateral growth. As
further development occurs, the
laterals should be thinned-out
and the finer ones retained,
Shorten strong side-shoots and
leader-shoots to maintain shape
and size. Remove all sucker-
B rowt b- Cover-crops or mulches
should be used liberally and
a mixed fertiliser applied in the
spring. •
» *
Misnomer
“Montro”: One of several
misnomers among sheep-diseases
is (contagious pus-
tular dermatitis), which attacks
not only mouths but also other
parts of the body, including the
feet and udder. The disease as
it affects the feet—common cur-
rently in several Victorian dis-
tricts is often confused with
footrot. Young sheep seem most
susceptible. Ihe disease often
checks lambs badly.
Scabby - mouth is most
common where saffron-thistle
and other spiny plants cause
small abrasions, through which
the virus enters. It causes scabby
sores on the hands and arms of
humans, but is not serious and
can be treated easily
The disease usually lasts in the
flock for about three weeks, and
can be treated with oint ’ lent;
such as white-precipitate. Im-
munisation with a vaccine is
comparatively easy, using a
needle with the top filed-off to
leave two prongs which scratch
the skin, but is not advised where
scabby-mouth has not occurred.
“Spinner”: Best and easiest
way to fill nail-holes in corru-
gated galvanised-iron is to first
l a y a length of 2in. piping on
the floor, then fit the corruga-
tion with the hole in it on top,
so that they lie snugly together,
p u t a lead airgun-pellet in the
hole and hammer flat. Makes a
waterproof mend and is easier
than soldering.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(26/8/’56)
General rains may fall in a large part of Queensland
during October, mainly associated with storms. The best
falls are likely in the southern half of the State, but with
possibility of renewed flooding in the south-west; the north-
west mainly dry.
Moderate general rains are likely in N.S.W. during
October, although heavier rains may occur in the south-
west, Riverina, and part of the far-western division.
Moderate follow-on rain is likely during November.
Victoria should have general rains above average
during October; in the western division mainly moderate.
Heaviest falls are likely in the east, central and northern
divisions, and this may lead to further flooding both in the
Yarra and In rivers in the north.
Reasonably good general rains should occur throughout
South Australia during October, with light to moderate rain
in Central Australia.
Rainfall should vary from light to above normal in the
south-west of W.A. during October, with mainly light rains
in the Gascoyne and goldfields areas, but poor elsewhere. .
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
INSURANCE —for your protection ""
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. %
BW 8131 (4 linos) W, J. C. PENNELL. M.n.g«.
mistaken for a famous outlaw
retired in quiet old age.
Or again, in “On the Arrow-
Track,” the sentimental observer
at first believes that he hears
some ancient and venerable
native chant, only to discover on
further listening that the old hag
is actually trying to sing “Ta-ra-
ra Boom-dee-ay!” It is hard
to see how so much nonsense
has in more recent years been
written in Australia on behalf of
the Noble Savage when such
sharp humor appeared in earlier
verses.
There is even a burlesque of
Tennyson, as when a celebrated
passage in “The Princess” is
translated into the amorous
jargon of Australian' sheepmen.
As further comment on the
more light-hearted of the ballads
may be mentioned a frequent,
invigorating use of dialect,
which, without rendering the
words in the least incompre-
hensible to a foreign reader,
helps the poet to avoid literary
cliches and* materially assists
.him in achieving reality and con-
vincingness. Among the livelier
of the dialect poems may be
noted “A Bush Problem,” deal-
ing with a horse-trader, “The
Boss’s Boots,” vividly depicting
the sights, sounds and odors in
a shearing-shed, and such
animated pieces as “Are You the
Cove?” “The Old Conservative,”
“His Story,” and “Milkin’.”
Nature, in so much 19th-
century poetry an ornament, an
affectation, or an empty
metaphor, becomes in the best
of this Australian verse an
imminent reality. The Australian
desert is painted as a waste land
of fearsome actuality. To T. S.
Eliot’s symbolical waste land rain
comes as a blessing, but here
rain means flood, and flood
threatens death no less than
death is threatened by drought.
This menacing landscape is
only too real, too completely
convincing, yet is so unlike that
known to readers unfamiliar
with Australia in actual experi-
ence that it acquires also a
dreamlike and symbolical
quality highly agreeable to
poetry and the imagination.
Few bodies of English verse
create a landscape so forcefully,
or so much, so to speak, out of
whole cloth as this isolated
frontier world of Australian
balladry.
The vastness of Australia is
well realised in “The
Post Office,” which relates how
the mailman wanders across the
wilderness to deliver letters not
to homes but to keepers of roving
herds. “The Coachman’s Yam”
describes unbearable cold; “A
Bushman’s Song” equally un-
bearable heat.
The vast silence of the wilder-
ness is captured in the entrancing
ballad, “Where Silence Reigns.”
Emaciated rivers are humorously
sketched in “The Paroo River”
and “Out Back,” the swollen
rivers in “The Mailman’s Ride”
and that tremendously energetic
ballad of the teamsters, “How
the Fire Queen Crossed the
Swamp.”
The great expanses of grass
are exuberantly painted in
“From the Gulf,” another of
Will Ogilvie’s justly popular
pieces. The psychology of a
half-maddened steer has seldom
been more forcefully displayed
than in “The Dingo-Chaser.”
This is a true poem and not a
footnote on Nature, since it so
clearly symbolises any obsessive
hatred carried through the years.
Finally, it would be hard to
discover in any language a
ballad of horsemanship that for
its cold dash of words and flash
of images equals the most
vigorous of all such Australian
songs, “The Man From Snowy
River.”
This impressive content of the
bush ballads is, of course,
achieved only through a largely
self-taught mastery of style. An
almost complete absence of
jingoism happily distinguishes
this art from that of Rudyard
Kipling, and a similar absence
of sentimentality, frightened off,
as it were, by the imminent
horrors of the Australian wilder-
ness, distinguishes it from the
work of Bret Harte and Robert
Service. This is poetry on a
considerably • higher level than
might be anticipated for folk
rhyme. Once again the reader
welcomes the evidence that in
this collection of so-called “bush
ballads” he is confronted with a
distinctly superior variety of
popular verse.
The Move
By V. THORROWGOOD
Mullens - street
waited, mean and old.
Its pavements were
chipped and broken in
dumb protest to the stream of
ill-shod feet that passed over its
surface. Badly-washed napkins
were strung across its front-
verandas. Women, grey like the
street, propped themselves
against fences.
Gloria came out of her house
with Freddie and the new baby.
She carried him on her hip as
she had seen her mother do
wtith all her younger sisters.
He clung there, pitiful and
afraid, with the deep instinc-
tive fear of the newborn. His
head dangled unsupported and
blue feet fell from the old shawl
she had wrapped him in.
She turned back once to wave
and then hurried on to the bus-
stop, her back bending crookedly
with the weight of the baby and
her untidy dillybag.
Freddie had to move quickly
to keep up with her. He kept
one hand on the dillybag. A
man’s cut - down sports - coat
flapped about his knees, and he
dug his free hand into the pocket
where he kept string and a few
bottle-tops. Looking down at
his head, which resembled the
top of a straw-broom, Gloria
thought: “ ’E’s never ’ad a
chance, livin’ ’ere.”
They were leaving Mullens-
street. Some inarticulate voice
within Gloria rose up in song.
Sister Newington, the welfare-
officer who’d visited her after the
baby had come, had told her
she must try to leave the slums.
She’d worked hard for Gloria
and had found her an upstairs-
room in a large house at Edge-
hill, an outlying suburb/ The
owners were often away, and
wanted somebody about to keep
an eye on things.
Sister had told her the room
was sunny, the air as good as
the country. They had the use
of a bathroom, with one of those
inside toilets that flushed at the
touch of a knob. Pink, Sister
had said. There was to be some
money for her, too, as Sister
had arranged for the children’s
father to pay a sum each week.
In Gloria’s mind, Sister Newing-
ton was linked with the shadowy
picture of heaven she had
glimpsed in rare visits to the
Mullens-street Sunday-school.
IN the bus they fought for a
foothold with factory-
workers. When they left the
confines of the city she and
Freddie sat down and looked
from the window, onto the
highway where wattles bloomed
and paddocks were tucked
between brick houses, touched
now with yellow from the
fading sun.
“We there yet?” asked
Freddie.
“Keep still; not long now.”
They were put off outside the
Edgehill Grocery and General
Store. In the window saucepans
stood in pyramids, and skipping-
ropes and colored pencils were
laid in precise rows.
She knew which way to go
and watched the streets as they
curved before her. She was
aware of strong, cold air in her
nostrils. Their street stretched
to the foot of the wooded hill
from which the suburb derived
its name. A horse walked over
the hill, picking its way with
careful grace, its tail poised in
the fine wind.
“Look at the ’ill, Freddie.”
“Yeah,” said Freddie, reach-
ing up for her hand, because it
yvas new and somehow sad, like-
the pictures in the book Sister
Newington had given him.
Inside the house they stepped
onto linoleum that gleamed
white down the hall. The people
would not be home until the
weekend and had given Gloria
the keys. Their feet were heavy
in the emptiness as they went
upstairs.
The room was clean and cold.
It was furnished with two beds,
a cot, a stovette, a sink and a
bare wooden table. Then
Gloria saw the electric-fire.
With a small feeling of pleasure,
she switched it on. It was a
friend, and she drew Freddie
close to its warmth.
She busied herself with the
baby’s bottle, and put biscuits
on a plate for Freddie. He ate
them slowly.
“We’ll get on, love,” Gloria
said.
EARLY next morning Freddie
crossed the road and stood
outside the house opposite. It
had a brown fence, and he
could hear children laughing
and playing on the other side.
He found a hole and put his
bye against it. He could see
the leaves of a tree inside the
gate, and the bright head of a
little girl as she flashed about.
He stood there, holding his
loneliness about him.
When the postman came the
children opened the gate and ran
to meet him, putting their hands
out fof letters.
“For Daddy,” they called to
their mother, who had come on
to the path. Then they saw
Freddie standing against the
fence. They were quiet at once,
circling him with the wariness
of the young.
The mother came over and
bent down. Something in his
face touched her and she said
to the children, “Take the little
boy in to play with you.”
“He’s wearing sandshoes,”
said the girl, pointing the toe of
her square brown shoe at his
feet.
“Take him in to play,” said the
mother again.
Freddie followed them in and
stood absorbing the scene before
him. Backyards in Mullens-
street were filled with an accumu-
lation of rubbish, ranging from
old iron bedsteads to dead cats.
This backyard had been planned
for the children who lived there.
Flowers of . early spring were
unfolding beneath the branches
of silver-birch trees. A swing
was set, solid and shiny, in
green grass. Gravel paths made
a crunching sound under
Freddie’s feet. The smallest
child, a , round boy with gold-
brown eyes, was pushing a
pedal-car along, while his
brother, taller but with the same
eyes, was giving instructions in
a commanding voice: “A little
more this way, mate, over here,
over here!”
The girl turned to Freddie and
said, “Would you like to make
plum-puddings in the sand?”
. Freddie nodded, bewitched,
and stood beside her in the sand-
pit while she bent down and
deftly scooped sand into minute
yellow barrels, turning them up-
side-down on a board in round
shapes. Each time one came
out intact she looked up at him,
laughing, and said, “See, it’s
easy!”
Freddie sat down, and put
his fingers through the mounds
of sand. He let it cover his
hand right over. He’d never felt
sand.
Gloria came out to look for
him later in the morning, and
the mother called to her.
“He’s playing in the sandpit.”
She went over to see the baby,
hanging on Gloria’s arm.
“I’ve gotta get up to the shop,”
explained Gloria. “Gotta take
them with me.”
“Leave them here,” said the
woman impulsively. “You’ll
have a load to carry.”
“Gee, thanks,” said Gloria.
She followed the woman into
the house and up to the nursery.
The woman put the baby down
in a yellow cot. Gloria looked
at the pictures on the wall, at
the toys arranged on the
shelves.
“Gee,” she said again.
The children came in, intrigued
with the baby. The tall boy let
the baby hold his finger, and
touched its silky cheek. Freddie
was instantly possessive and
stood beside the bigger boy.
“ ‘E’s mine,” he said.
“He’s better’n you,” answered
the boy.
“What’s he called?” they
clamored.
“Anthony,” said Gloria
nervopsly, remembering how
they’d laughed in Mullens-street.
“Tony for short.”
“Do call him Anthony,” said
the woman.
As Gloria left for the shop,
the woman said she would ask
the tradespeople to call.
“The fruit-van comes round
on Thursday, and don’t forget
to put your rubbish-tin out early
on Friday,” she added.
FREDDIE played with the
children every day after
that. He liked to make shapes in
the sand or to talk to the girl.
He and the tall boy were natural
enemies.
After lunch one day the boy
and Freddie had a fight. They
hit and kicked and tore at each
other. The mother came out to
settle it, but they kept on
yelling.
“You! ” shouted the boy. “Get
out of my pedal-car. It’s mine.
Daddy said it’s mine!”
Freddie knew only one way to
express pain or anger. He had
learned to swear hard and well
almost before he could walk.
Now, all the filthy, meaningless
words he knew poured forth.
It was his sole weapon. When
he had finished he began to
sob, and putting his arm over
his face in a timeless gesture of
defeat he made for the gate.
The woman followed him
quietly. He’d have understood
better if she’d belted him.
She explained to Gloria that
she was sorry but Freddie would
have to stay "out. She said she
knew it wasn’t Freddie’s fault.
After she had gone, Gloria
made to slap him, but he dodged
her.
“’Er,” said Gloria, “with ’er
’igh-and-mighty ideas. She don’t
know nothin’.”
TVTEXT day was Friday and
Gloria remembered tha
rubbish. When she rose to attend
the baby, she put out the old
cardboard box she was using.
She saw the* cart rattle past while
they were having their early
breakfast.
Gloria watched from her
room when the woman came
out with her hygienic tin later on.
Evidently she didn’t know she’d
missed him.
Something more powerful
than Gloria, the terrible resent-
ment that was her heritage, com-
pelled her to fling up her
window and call to the figure
below, in the nerve-shattering
cadence of Mullens-street,
“Any’ow, the rubbish-man’s
been, stoo-00-pid! ”
FRAGMENT: PAVLOVA
With long frail narrow throat
To throat, delicately
They float
In timeless synonymy . . .
The white, glistening swan
And she
Over the dark mirror of the lake,
Where their reflections
Wake.
N.S.W.
JOAN MAS .


SUNK ISLAND
HUBERT NICHOLSON
The author’s story of farming folk in the East Riding will place
him among the regional novelists of this part of England.
BOOK SOCIETY RECOMMENDATION
At all booksellers - - - 17/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
EDWARD VII
AND HIS CIRCLE
by Virginia Cowles
The outstanding biography of a gay,
fun-loving king, based on memoirs
and letters of the day. Illus.
31/- (post 1/3)
OUTSTANDING BOOKS
A NIGHT TO REMEMBER
by Walter Lord
The full, astonishing story of the
drama of the sinking of the ‘‘unsink-
able” Titanic in 1912. Book Society
Recommendation. Illus.
20/- (post lid 1 .)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
: '
Available from all booksellers
TENDER VICTORY
by TAYLOR CALDWELL 20/-
When Johnny Fletcher, a young minister, and his family of five orphaned
refugee children enter Barryfteld the community will not accept, them r It
takes a common disaster to overcome public fear and mistrust.
COLLINS—PUBLISHERS
WATERFALL
by Dorothy Lucie Sanders
Another delightful family novel about the Montgomeries
of Pepper Tree Bay.
Obtainable from all Booksellers.
Retail Price, 15/6d.
Hodder and Stoughton Ltd.
she said. “I remember it all so well.
That red wood, jah-rr-a, it was a
pleasure to scrub it clean! Ja!” She
nodded her head with the German
word. “And the bush—just after
creation, still almost being created.
And when I bought a pound of butter
at a farm-house the woman just cut
off a chunk and gave it to me, maybe
a pound and a half. And the Sydney
‘Bulletin,’ it had all Australia in it, ja,
is it still published?”
She spoke a little more about her
wandering life with Lawrence, and
said that some American girls had
come to see her a few days ago. After
asking her a lot of questions, one of
them said. “But, Mrs. Ravagli, if you
did all those things, how did Colonel
Lawrence find time to ride around
Arabia on his motor-cycle?”
She took my wife out to the kitchen
to show her the new stove, with its
glass-fronted oven. She was very proud
of it. “I have to be a good cook,
especially with cakes and bread.”
She mentioned Aldous Huxley, and
the death of his wife Maria, of whom
she had been very fond. “But he is at
peace with himself, he will survive.
Like losing a leg, it is gone, and one
must go on. It takes guts.” . (Pro-
nounced “gotts.”) Frieda herself was
a woman whose life had taken guts,
and she had them.
When we arrived home in Australia
I sent her a subscription to “The
Bulletin.” Four or five months ago wc
had a letter in her big sloping hand-
writing from Port Isabel.... “The
Sydney ‘Bulletins’ came and keep on
coming and I enjoy them so much—
they take me back to L.’s and my stay
in Australia so vividly. Thank you
so very much.”
Alas, I shall have to cancel the
subscription.
Geoffrey Dutton.
Was Shakspeare a
Committee?
The latest to play the ever-fascinat-
ing game of trying to prove that
Shakspeare was not Shakspeare is Mr.
A. J. Evans; who, in Shakespeare’s
Magic Circle (Arthur Barker, Ltd.),
submits that he was a committee, or
“magic circle.”
Because some of Shakspeare’s plays
showed a rare knowledge of women,
he must have been a woman, says Mr.
Evans. Because his plays show learn-
ing, philosophy, some knowledge of the
law and a large vocabulary, he must
also have been Bacon. Because he
mentions duelling, he himself had
fought a duel. Because his seafaring
terms are exact, he must also have been
a sailor. Because some of his plays
appear to be based on the lives of
members of the great aristocratic
families of England, he must himself
have been an aristocrat. Because his
Italian plays could only have been
written by a man who had travelled to
Italy—and there is no proof that Shak-
speare did; and, incidentally, no proof
that he didn’t—he must have been
William Stanley, the sixth Earl of Derby.
So he was, says Mr. Evans, all these
people: a committee:—
Surely there can never have been
in any land an aristocratic clique
which possessed such an exalted
standard of education and culture
as the Elizabethan upper classes—
Oxford, Edmund Spenser, Sir Philip
Sidney, Sir Walter Raleigh, the 4th
Earl of Derby and his sons William
and Ferdinando, Rutland and Lady
Rutland (Sidney’s daughter),
Southampton and Lady Pembroke
(Sidney’s sister), to mention but a
few. And to this galaxy of talent
must be added the towering figure
of Francis Bacon, who was intimate
with them a 11.... These great- men,
though some violent quarrels are
recorded.. . .frequently visited each
other’s houses... . It is my belief that
it was by the interplay of wit,
knowledge and criticism in this
unique circle of brilliant individuals
that the plays of Shakespeare were
forged. It would account for the
vast store of varied knowledge in the
plays, the immense vocabulary, the
polish and repolish of lines.
This does not mean, Mr. Evans
hastens somewhat confusingly to add,
that there were “many Shakespeares”:
one “master-mind” directed the circle:
and this brilliant master-of-ceremonies
was, he suggests, William Stanley . . .
who, because “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” seems to contain references to
Queen Elizabeth, whom Stanley may
once have hoped to marry, and also
to his subsequent marriage to Elizabeth
de Vere, “must” have written the play
himself as “a charming wedding-
present to his bride.”
And where, amongst all this galaxy
of genius, was Shakspeare himself?
Shakspeare, says Mr. Evans, was merely
the Stratford actor who signed himself
“Shakspere” and pronounced himself
“Shackspur” or “Shaxper”—and that
is the end of him. He may, says Mr.
Evans, who is not very clear on this
point. Have been an agent of William
Stanley’s. At any rate, because aristo-
crats couldn’t sign their own plays in
those days, Oxford, Spenser, Sidney,
Raleigh, Derby, William Stanley,
Ferdinando, Rutland, Lady Rutland,
Southampton, Lady Pembroke and
Bacon all decided to put their joint
productions under the name of this
lowly fellow from Stratford, and they
and all their families, friends, relations
and retainers kept the secret so well
that nobody has ever been able to
expose it until the fortunate arrival of
Mr. Evans.
And what of the various con-
temporary references which seem to
hint at the extraordinary possibility of
Shakspeare’s having written his own
plays?
Well, says Mr. Evans, the actor
Shakspere, or Shaxpur, though his name
is known to have been spelt 64 different
ways, was never known to hyphenate
himself; and so, when time after time
in relation to the plays he is found
to be spelt with a hyphen, as
“Shake-speare,” that proves he must
have been somebody else.... a very
pleasant argument, no doubt: but what,
then, was the use of the committee’s
using the actor’s name for their nom-
de-plume when everybody, presumably,
would have known that Shaxpur wasn’t
Shake-speare?
Mr. Evans says that when Greene
declared in his jealous rage that Shak-
speare “supposes he is as well able to
bumbast out a blank verse as the best
of you,” he was “accusing the player of
putting forward as his own some blank
verse of which he was not the author”
—which really does not seem precisely
what Greene said. Mr. Evans says,
again, that when some unknown Cam-
bridge student wrote a play in which
one of the comic characters says, “Why,
here’s our fellow Shakspeare puts them
all down, aye and Ben Jonson too,”
this must be an attack on the actor and
“a withering sarcasm indicating that
exactly the opposite is true” —which,
once more, hardly seems to be the case.
And when Ben Jonson wrote under the
portrait of Shakspeare on the title-page
of the First Folio the famous lines
beginning
This Figure that thou here seest put,
It was for gentle Shakespeare cut,
he gave us good reason, says Mr. Evans,
“for believing that Jonson knew per-
fectly well that this was not a portrait
of Shakspeare.” And of course if
Jonson, when he said it was a portrait
of Shakspeare, meant that it wasn’t,
you can prove anything . . .
In spite of his many illogicalities and
absurdities, Mr. Evans does, in fact,
following various other theorists, put
up a good case for Shakspeare’s having
had some connection with William
Stanley: and we have only to suppose,
what Mr. Evans refuses to admit as a
possibility, that the talented nobleman
talked to the poet as a friend, to find a
possible source for all the information
about travel, duelling, seafaring and
the great English families which so
perturbs this author.
But if Mr. Evans is right in what he
considers his most vital point, that
Shakspeare could only, have got his
bits of Italian scenery right if he had
visited Italy, he should have carried
this line of inquiry further: for it is
also obvious that Shakspeare must have
been in ancient Rome to write “Julius
Csesar,” in Egypt to write ‘,‘Antony and
Cleopatra,” in Scotland for “Macbeth”
and at the siege of Troy for “Troilus
and Cressida,” so that really one does
not know who he could have been
unless, perhaps, the Wandering Jew.
Or, possibly, Shakspeare.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 398
Across
I—Satchel litigation which doesn’t
take long. (5, 4)
4—A prelude to laying a hundred
against some good fortune. (5)
7—Material for making a modern
cupboard lie about guest-house
accommodation. (5, 5)
10—Poet with the dull grey back. (4)
12— Crook (9)
13 — This makes the last letter ring
Margaret with the first. (5)
14 — Confess this is now in hiding. (3)
15— I come between the cobber and
the knobs in retractive poetry. (9)
17—General pastrycookery in the
street is the most drowsy. (9)
19—One knocked about for a long
time. (3)
21 —Doris hits only its middle sage
in India. (5)
23—Chatterer Gilbert crook against
a backward doctor with an
account swallowed by 10-across.
-4—Snareless work for a small
musical ensemble. (5)
25 Head flank can become
inadequately clad. (4-5)
26 Dank parent acted. (5)
27 —Fellow to see Ben before 1 take
a land. (9)
Down
1 — Knocks about the snack bars.
(7)
2 Natural ice-manufacturer who is
in no condition to hold an uppish
square-cut? (8, 5)
3 Terror is too much for “blue.”
(5)
5 U.K.’s decree? (5)
6 Carries of baby sleeps. (7)
8 — Comedian with expectations of
money? (3, 4)
9 Gas in plane plugs may do this
when inefficient. (3, 2)
11 —Erlunch is a nobleman? (7, 5)
16 — Country place to hide a German
coin. (7)
17— Dutch Guiana makes the French
sure in the morning. (7)
18— Cain Jolson on a disreputable old
ship. (5)
20—Dank vowels? A crazy notion.
(3, 4)
22 Steam-yacht gesture of agreement
in a meeting of churchmen. (5)
23 — Many an actor needs none of the
urging given by this dry-point
engraver who was a disciple of
Diirer. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 397


WM
:• -
m
%m'm
"«N>
■ ; <Ss>
l»lS
g Mi? J
»ii
SKS
*v
*r imwM
SNt/" -
\
y : m -r. *
-Cll% 3T"
mm i
fiSssf
Hi
r ii
:•:. :• ••':
Stt:
«
S
jSE
mm
'■ W
I
■. :■ : '-;C' ■- ' ■' ■-■ ■' £'■
m
m
m
mm
mm®m.
■&&&&?
mm
:-: : :
Wmmm
•:•:• •:
■ ;
m
CREST
He’s a careful driver. But no matter how well
he heeds the familiar double lines and that
ominous sign “Crest”, he can’t see through a
hill. So another’s thoughtless disregard of
warnings can jeopardise both the careful driver
and his passengers. You and your passengers
risk being confronted with double trouble, too
every time you take your car on to the road.
It’s a common enough situation, yet one that
should not be common. Would not be common,
in fact, if our roads were built to cope with the
ever-increasing flow of modern, fast-moving
traffic. Today, every driver has to face danger
danger quite outside his own control
simply because our roads are out-dated. Hit or
miss roads, born of expediency, built without
plan for the future. Roads that lag behind
other phases of national development. Roads
with crests dangerous roads.
Road transport plays such an important part
in our lives that Australian roads should be
made as safe as possible. What Australia needs
is a National Roads Authority, similar to New
Zealand’s. There a single body, backed by the
necessary funds and powers, provides the fore-
sight and planning essential to good road
making. An Australian National Roads Auth-
ority could be the first step in bringing our
roads into line with today’s requirements, while
keeping an eye on the future. What do you
think?
CATERPILLAR
*
vo' s
O*
jfS**
•tvW
\\* G
AND CAT ARE
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO,. U.S.A.
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
PIESEL ENGINES • TRACTORS • MOTOR GRADERS • EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
