

I
m
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
A SECOND JAZZ-AGE?-<mge 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3962
Wednesday, January 18, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 281: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
THE FAITHFUL STILL GATHER ANID WALSINGHAM'S ANCIENT RUINS
THE village of Walsingham in Norfolk is noted for the ruins of an
Augustinian priory which, in earlier days, possessed the famous and
wealthy shrine of “our Lady of Walsingham.” The Priory was founded by
Edwy in 1061 and refounded by Geoffrey de Favranches in 1160. Almost
from its foundation there was an unceasing movement of pilgrims to Walsing-
ham. They came from all parts of Europe to worship at the shrine, and the
possessions of the Priory were augmented by valuable gifts and large endow-
ments so that it became one of the richest in the world.
Among the pilgrims who paid their devotions there were King Edward I,
Edward 11, Bruce of Scotland, Queen Isabella, Henry VII and Henry VIII at
the- commencement of his reign. The king is reputed to have walked to
Walsingham barefoot from East Barsham manor-house, a distance of about
three miles, to bestow a gold chain on the figure of the Virgin; it being an
essential condition that the pilgrim should walk the journey barefoot. At
the dissolution the figure was taken to London and burnt at Smithfield.
In 1921 the pre-Reformation pilgrimage to Walsingham was revived and
today it is one of the chief pilgrimage centres in Britain. The accompanying
illustration shows a gathering at the Priory ruins which stand in the grounds
of Walsingham Abbey. The Abbey is a comparatively modern foundation
which incorporates portions of the old buildings. Here can be seen the
imposing east gable of the Priory church with flanking stair turrets. Near by
are two ancient “wishing wells” and the remains of a 12th-century bath. In
earlier days the wells were enclosed within a building of reeds and straw to
which the early pilgrims were conducted and, for a fee, allowed to drink the
water from the wells which were reputed to bring relief from indigestion and
headaches and at the same time ensure for- the votary whatever he might wish
for at the time of drinking the waters.
Also at Walsingham can be seen the remains of another religious house,
known as Grey Friars, which was founded in 1346 by Elizabeth de Burgh,
Countess of Clare.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
1 Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 2o(i) AGE
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
ilume, let us find it for you —fiction, text book,
history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
TROUT AT TAUPO
If ever a book should be instantly
suppressed it is O. S. Hintz’s Trout at
Taupo (Reinhardt). It is an act of
cruelty against the entire race of re-
viewers. To think that one is
imprisoned in a canyon in George-
street, while on the remote and delect-
able western shore of Taupo there
exists country such as this!
Dense native bush clothes the
country almost to the water’s edge.
There are places where streams
cascade abruptly over high cliffs,
casting a shimmering veil of water
onto the lake. And the trout leap
and plunge in the spray. It is a
land where every prospect pleases
and only the mosquitoes are vile.
To think that there runs into that
colossal lake little streams so enchant-
ing as the Waimarino, “of much
simplicity and charm,” where “the trout
will often rise freely to an orange-
bodied nymph drifting down on them”:
to think that high up on the Hinemaiai,
where waterfalls block the path of the
big rainbows on their spawning-run
from the lake, the N.Z. Internal
Affairs Department has established a
colony of fontinalis, the American
brook-trout, never yet fished-for but
reported to be flourishing and in a year
or two to be made available to the
angler—“ Then we shall see if a fine
dry-fly fish has acclimatised itself to an
environment ideally suited for pleasant
angling”; to think that the Flaxbush
Pool on Mr. Hintz’s favorite Taupo
river, the Waitahanui, in which he has
had great adventures with snags, the
bellbirds are calling at this moment: —
I have taken more trout from
this one pool than from any other
stretch of river-water I have ever
fished. It has trees around it and
an air of great peacefulness. Not
a human habitation is in sight. The
bellbirds toll away in the tall manuka,
and on the flat further back along
the track quail call querulously.
Sometimes they scuttle along the
track, these little crested birds,
anxiously herding chicks not much
bigger than fair-sized bumble-bees
.... It is a piece of trout-water to
dream about —and the pool holds
fish. The heaviest trout I have
taken out of it weighed 91b. and I am
convinced that some of the fish I
have hooked in it but failed to land
were even heavier.
It is all utterly unbearable and one’s
only consolation is that Mr. Hintz him-
self is also safely locked-up in a news-
paper office: he is associate-editor of
the “N.Z. Herald” in Auckland. And,
if one may comment on Minhinnick’s
caricature of him, he must be remem-
bered by many of the Taupo trout as
the most enormous angler that ever got
away from them.
However, since it is too late to stop
the book being written, one may as
well enjoy its agonising delights; and
it is well indeed that Mr. Hintz de-
scribes these enchanting places more-
or-less off the beaten track: for if a
seven-pounder is a seven-pounder, and
never on any account to be sneezed-at,
and if it was pleasant to have so large
a fish innocently gaffed for one by the
ranger from the wharf at Tokaanu the
day after one’s licence had expired—
as happened to the reviewer one mem-
orable drizzly morning at Taupo —
there really is something abominable
to contemplate in the herds of fisher-
men camping around the access-
ible spots of the lake ... the “picket-
fence” of 30 anglers in a row stretched
across the mouth of the Waitahanui;
the dutiful waiting in the dawn for
5 a.m. when fishing may legally begin,
the dutiful retreat from the waters at
11 p.m. (they fish late over there); the
reeling-in of lines and the confusion
when somebody along the picket-fence
hooks a fish; the tramping of heavy
boots behind you as squadrons of
brother-anglers come to share the
famous pools of the Tongariro and the
Tauranga-Taupo ... Fishing is a secret,
solitary, curmudgeonly and beautiful
art, never to be practised except in
the company of one other angler who
should be half a mile away around the
bend; and not all Mr. Hintz’s geniality
will persuade one that it should be
otherwise.
The only redeeming thing is—the
fish. The prodigious, prolific, unbeliev-
able trout of Taupo. There is Mr.
Hintz having a pretty fair day on the
Waitahanui when he caught ten fish
weighing a total of 611 b.; there is the
day his Maori friend Barney Northcroft
caught the 19£lb. rainbow; there is
the curious, “well-authenticated” story
of the two anglers who, after an earth-
quake had supposedly disturbed the
really big fellows from the depths,
caught seven fish in two hours, not
one of them under 201 b. and the
heaviest a rainbow of 251 b.; and there
is the enchanting theory of Wesley
Martin, an Englishman who used to
live at Taupo, that fish of mythical
proportions lurk in the depths of the
submerged volcanic craters —in proof
which, trolling on the bottom over one
of these chasms, he once hooked a
trout so big that . . . well, it got away
and he never saw it. It is enough to
make one, at least during an earth-
quake, join in the picket-fence. But
it is in the out-of-the-way places that
the real delight abides.
Both in Australia and New Zealand
—as well as overseas —anglers will
find “Trout at Taupo” a most useful
guide to the district as well as a pleas-
ant piece of reading. It is not a great
fishing-book, but it is companionable.
Talk About Talk
Much as the world depends upon
ideas being transferred from one per-
son to another, how little is known
about the means by which this is accom-
plished may be found in Studies in
Communication (Seeker and Warburg),
collected from professorial specialists
by the Communication Research Centre
of University College, London.
As one would expect, there is some-
thing definite about the liberation of
acetyl-choline at a signal from the
nerves, which causes a muscle to con-
tract, in the brusque sentences of
J. B. S. Haldane; and about the Par-
liament of the brain, with ten-thousand-
million neurons, organised on a yes-
no system, some with “block” votes;
and he is good on Frisch and Lin-
dauer’s discoveries of the dances of
bees, which can be shown to mean,
precisely, such things as “Nine workers
are to fly 560 yards n.-e. by e. of the
hive to a place with the smell of the
drink which I offer you.” The bees
have the only “non-human political
system .... of which we know any-
thing,” while at the same time: —
.... a great deal of human com-
munication is still at the animal
level. Its function is to evoke cer-
tain actions in the recipients by
altering their mood, and not to
communicate information. This is
equally true of advertising, political
oratory, religious ritual and love-
making .... The specifically human
type of communication is com-
munication about facts in the ex-
ternal world.
D. B. Fry, Reader in Experimental
Phonetics, attempts a similar objective
survey of speech, with X-rays, a film of
a fortunate gentleman with a hole in
his cheek which gave the “first direct
pictures of the tongue-movements
associated with various sound-
sequences in English,” and the
“Haskins synthesiser,” which creates
words like “digest” “by providing
an extended range of pure tones,
all of them harmonics .... con-
trolled by means of a pattern painted
on a plastic tape.” A plate shows a
“spectrogram” of speech and also a
reduction of it to a practical diagram
which, says Mr. Fry, will play back
into recognisable speech—i.e., they can
to a small extent “draw” speech on
paper: there is some discussion of the
effect of this on listeners.
Again, Randolph Quirk, Reader in
English at Durham University, is objec-
tive to the point of showing actual
speech in contrast to written English
as an illustration of Professor Fries’s
contention that “neither the sentence
. . . . nor the paragraph are units of
the living language of speech”:—
he —seemed of course he had that
kind of n er I/I’m er I/I er I/I er er
are you northern by any chance I
was going to say that kind of
northern—er —scepticism or at least
questioning mind —which er —but of
course he would mislead you with
that er he gave you the impression
that he only er you know he gave
you the impression that he was —
sceptical and at times sceptical and
nothing else.
Mr. Quirk goes on to discuss the
value of the “you knows” and “you
sees” of conversation as “intimacy sig-
nals,” considering that these “have a
function, in conditioning the recep-
tion given to what we are saying” —
and here he is on the edge of the murky
field of speculation elaborated by Colin
Cherry, of the. Imperial College of
Science and Technology, in his essay,
“Communication Theory”: the extent
to which an observer can observe signs
passing from one person to another,
and the extent to which these signs are
valid, which involves the ability of man
to say what he means, and the ability
of another man to decode this saying
in terms of his own standards of
reference.
Something of what this takes in may
be seen in this extraordinarily interest-
ing essay by Professor Webster, of
Greek at London University, on the
changing meaning of the word “psyche”
in Greek writing during the 300 years
from Homer to the fifth century 8.C.,
on its passage from being “the breath
blown out in a death” in the epic, to
being the living soul for the early lyric
poets, to being the immortal and intel-
lectual soul for the philosophers, to
being the brain for the doctors, who
gave it substance and situated it in the
chest. But the best survey of the funda-
mental difficulty of communication
here may be found in Professor Witt-
kower’s essay, illustrated by plates, on
“Interpretation of Visual Symbols in
the Arts.”
As we proceed from representa-
tional to thematic and on to multiple
meaning and expression, it becomes
more and more difficult to control
the objectivity of statements. And
the more we try to unravel in depth
the meaning of a symbol, the more
complex is the approach, and the
greater the margin of misinterpreta-
tion.
Then the “emotional response of
society” gets in the scientist’s way: —
Nowadays the intuitively gifted
and persuasive writer and talker on
art acts as a kind of middleman be-
tween art-producer and art-consumer.
He is the medicine-man who cana-
lises the emotions of the modern tribe
and often creates the symbols.
Keeping his eye on the symbols,
Professor Wittkower says: —
Artists like Picasso on the Conti-
nent and Henry Moore and Suther-
land in this country [Britain] create
new symbols and revitalise old ones,
while certain traditionalist artists,
who shall remain unnamed, are
busily devitalising symbolic forms
of the past. But it may be safer to
return to history.
And off he goes to explain the de-
basement by a 4th-century artist of a
2nd-century symbol of the mask and
thyrsus of Dionysus into a portrait-head
and spear, and to talk of the misinter-
pretations of Classic and Eastern art
that gave rise to new symbols—it would
have been more interesting to have
his analysis of the symbols he finds in
Moore and Picasso.
THE PASSIONATE POET AND
HIS MUSE
The archetypal poet, know,
Over the imagined world
Sought his still-evasive Muse.
By night and day escaping skirts
Troubled the corner of his eye,
But mostly when the starlit sky
Grew tremulous towards the east:
Then, oh then, it seemed he held
For a moment in his arm
The dear enchantment of her form,
Once, grown skilful in the chase,
Practised in complexities,
Once, oh once, he caught her hand,
Held her prisoned in his dream
And touched her still-averted face:
In that selfsame instant knew
Hopeless all his long pursuit,
Felt her lovely shoulders start
Into wing and into leaf
And knew Apollo’s chagrined grief.
To that archetypal tree
Pilgrim poets still repair:
In the season of the leaf
Know the sweetness of her shade,
In the season of the fruit
Bless her for her plenteousness,
When her limbs are winter-bare
Match with hers their melancholy:
And, beneath her roots, at last
Lie in death-commingled dust.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Reviewed Briefly
Randy Blair: Nuri Mass (The
Writers’ Press). This novel, written,
hand-set and printed by the authoress
and charmingly decorated with small
sketches in black-and-white by her
mother. Celeste Mass, makes pleasant
entertainment. Story interestingly told;
characters and their Sydney setting
believable. Randy Blair is a young
girl convinced of her ability to write,
and attractive, in her odd and some-
what prudish way, to the blase males
(in journalism and related trades).
Would have been better if Miss Mass
had learned to handle several charac-
ters at once—seldom here are more
than two people ever together.
* * * *
Craftwork: N. P. Donnison (Angus
and Robertson). A cardboard-covered
handbook for schools by an expert
from the Sydney Teachers’ College,
93 pages running six to a dozen dia-
grams to the page: paste-decorations,
writing-pad cases, photograph-albums,
pencil-cases, puppets, puppet-theatres,
papier-mache pottery, a weaving-loom,
basketry, bookbinding, toys, a bobs-
table, a brush, a leather purse and
wallet; model huts, railway-stations,
pagodas; landscapes and cut-paper
decorations. Elementary, but thorough.
* # * *
Old St. Paul’s Cathedral: G. H.
Cook (Phoenix). Old St. Paul’s replaced
a Saxon cathedral gutted by fire in
1087; it was building for centuries,
huge and so strong that four piers took
the 5000-tons weight of the central
tower. Added-to in succeeding cen-
turies (after the Reformation shops
were built against its walls and a
baker’s oven was burrowed in one of
its buttresses) and subtracted-from by
frequent fires and such as the duke in
search of building-material who de-
molished the charnel-house and carted
away the 500 tons of bones that give
their name to Bunhill, it was honored
by Inigo Jones with an incongruous
Corinthian portico in the 1620’s before
its destruction in the Fire of London
in 1666. Before Wren could get to
work on the present St. Paul’s 47,000
loads of rubbish had to be carted away.
A gratifying number of full-page plates
of old drawings and plans testify to
the magnificence of the old cathedral;
there are more plates of old drawings
of its ancient shrines and tombs; and
the author has gathered together in
about 100 large pages a huge amount
of architectural and historic fact about
its changing shape and changing
fortunes.


HORDERNS’«
2712, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
** vwvwto xnvwroa xwv
*l#% WßSmm -r »\* g *W« &nl
:
ss§ gSwßjKS? s*f ■’ ■• ’•; s •**<■< ••% % \
v
s x' % ~., - s
MMwMmws.q i- :
—«
iimililigl flit
IHlßifl
'■■':• 5
iiililil
-,,:* '•
K V*s:s
h&*wsMMlkwk
pirn
■IMS
■
li
COVERING FOR HOT PLATE
SN3AO OMI
FINGER-TIP TEMP. CONTROL
For Immediate delivery the famous Scotch made
WELLSTOOD
99
COOKER-HEATER
One of the most popular of the Esse products, the "Wellstood” is perfect for country homes. It has two
roomy ovens and ample hot plate space, maintaining balanced temperature necessary for
well-cooked meals. The "Wellstood” is available with either cream or green stipple
finish (hot water storage extra), and it’s available
ON THE EASIEST TERMS IN SYDNEY AND COENTRY AREAS!
£132/5
-
HOT WATER IN THE BATHROOM.
You have hot water 24 hours a day in your bath'
room. Enough hot water for a family of six, too!
KITCHEN. Hot water is always at hand for
washing up, washing clothes and for its dozens of
other uses in the kitchen. All this with a “Wellstood”.
AND LAUNDRY. The “Wellstood” will burn
almost any type of fuel. Burns wood, coal or coke.
Whatever you use turns out hot water economically!
“MASTERS OF MUSIC”
Join the thousands who listen each Sunday night at 9.30 p.m. to
hours of uninterrupted Classical music. Tune in to 2SM each Sunday.
Jft FkUTH
Anthony Horderns’
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ DO NOT PAY FREIGHT. ’PHONE: 80951. BOX 2712,
G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3962
Wednesday, January 18, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
CANBERRA'S NEW MINISTRY
THE new Federal Ministry has many progressive
features, even if there won’t be universal agreement
about the merits of the personnel and the allotment
of portfolios.
The broad alterations in the construction of the
Ministerial set-up have been long overdue. The
original strength of the Cabinet on the establishment
of the Commonwealth was nine, including the Vice-
President of the Executive Council and two other
Ministers without departmental portfolios. At the
end of World War I the expansion began. The last
Cabinet totalled 20, and was unworkable as a
board of directors.
With the addition of two junior Ministers for
administrative purposes the Ministry now becomes
larger by two than the Legislative Council of South
Australia and by three than that of Tasmania.
While added Ministers are obviously vital to the
conduct of affairs in view of the wide expansion of
the ambit of Government into the realms of public
enterprise and marketing, and the fact that the
trend to expansion is likely to continue, the argu-
ments for a small Cabinet are unanswerable, apart
from the need for compactness. It is vital that
overall policy on broader issues should be separated
from the problems of pure administration, and that
there should be a grouping of the top-level authority
of the Government in as few hands as possible so
as to assure clear-cut discussions and decisions and
prompt handling of major policies and settlement
of basic principles.
With the division of the Ministry into a Cabinet
and a body of administrative Ministers, the
Commonwealth Government should have achieved
a workable shape which will lend itself to future
necessary changes, whether temporary to meet the
exigencies of war or economic crisis or of permanent
growth.
The new framework has been adopted from
that of the British Government. The Cabinet of
12 is smaller by four than the British Cabinet, and
the junior Ministry smaller by nine than the British.
There will be two more Ministers than in Canada,
where some expansion also seems to be
contemplated.
The membership of the Cabinet preserves the
original structure as formulated in 1901. The basic
Cabinet posts established with the Commonwealth
—External Affairs, Attorney-General, Home
(Internal) Affairs, Treasury and Trade and Defence
—survive as the core of the policy-making body,
with some of the portfolios divided in the realm of
Defence and with Air and Labor added. The one
change which might have been made which pos-
sibly would have been salutary could have
been the allocation of another Minister for
the Treasury, which has become an almost impos-
sible burden for one man to carry. The Chancellor
of the Exchequer in England has some Ministerial
and under-secretarial assistance denied to the
Australian Treasurer. Canada has a Minister for
Finance and a Minister of National Revenue. The
Treasury portfolio is now so overloaded with detail
that it is calculated to break the back of any man
unless he is prepared to leave the framing of policy
on a number of important matters primarily in
the hands of civil servants and the head of the
central bank.
The personnel of the new governing body is
reasonable in view of the material available and
having regard to the limitations imposed by the
Federal nature of the Government, the regional
claims of the States, and the awkward reality that
in a coalition both parties must have due representa-
tion, even to the exclusion of men of real ability
and promise in favor of party representatives. But
for these considerations the Ministry as a whole
would no doubt be stronger in ability as regards
individuals; but consolation lies in the fact that
it takes more than competence in individuals to
make a workable team.
It is a vital factor in Cabinet government in
British countries that power always accumulates in
the hands of one man and that in all major matters
his decision is the one that is definitive, his voice
that to which the country as a whole and those with
whom we deal externally will hearken. The strength
of every Ministry, of every Parliament, the authority
of every governed country are in direct relation to
the quality of the Prime Minister. This is a truth
which the British are having brought home to
them at the moment with painful force in an hour
of economic crisis in which trade is harder,
wage-demands ballooning, world competition
growing, and surpluses of primary products collect-
ing mountainously.
There is little ground for anyone to envy the lot
of the new Ministers at Canberra. The six new ones
will have their problems, particularly Mr. Fairhall,
dealing with works, and Mr. Hugh Roberton,
dealing with social services. But the brunt of the
programme under which Mr. Menzies has set him-
self to deal with trade-balances and other economic
matters will fall on four men—the Prime Minister,
the Treasurer, Mr. McEwen (who takes over the
new enlarged Ministry of Trade, isolated from
Customs, with a view to giving him scope to con-
centrate on the export drive and the cultivation of
overseas markets) and Mr. Casey, External Affairs.
The Ministers dealing with external trade and
foreign affairs and with Constitutional-reform will,
in the coming Parliament, hold the keys to the
country’s fate, and their jobs are not enviable ones.
It would seem that mere whittling-down of imports
and purchases of consumer-goods will not alone
achieve the goal of the Prime Minister—to balance
overseas trading-figures within the current year, or
even next year. Indeed, with markets falling-off
for the goods of some of our best buyers and with
their external buying-power hampered by all-round
wage-rises, it will be very difficult to plan ahead
under the best of conditions. It will also be
extremely doubtful if planning will be possible
without the full co-operation of State Governments
and the unions, some of which are determined to
play politics and not to co-operate on the major
issues of defence, foreign affairs and the expansion
of exports under any conditions whatever.
A large sector of unionism headed by Com-
munists, and more than one State Government, are
making it policy not to co-operate and are itching
to see the Commonwealth fail in its plans, their own
single aim, to which all others are subordinated,
being to see “Labor” returned to office.
This attitude of mind makes it vital that the
,N. S. Wales Labor Government (and that of Queens-
land, if possible) shall be defeated at the next polls
so as to secure something like a uniform national
outlook.
Their defeat would also help in another avenue
which is going to be vital to success of the campaign
to balance overseas trade-figures—the import of
large quantities of overseas capital for develop-
mental purposes, along with the requisite immigrant
labor to run new enterprises.
It will have to be the aim of the Government
to attract this capital and to continue and expand
its immigration policy if its programme is to
succeed.
To succeed, also, the new Government will
have to expand and intensify to the greatest possible
extent its co-operation with the business and
industrial community so successfully initiated by
Mr. Menzies last year.
Victoria's Latrobe Valley
AT a foundry in Melbourne last month tests were
made of a new metallurgical fuel which is expected
to mean much to the industrial development of Vic-
toria. The fuel was coke made from brown-coal,
and the test, which was conducted in the presence of
a team of Melbourne industrialists, was described
as being completely successful; the molten metal
was ready for pouring more quickly than with the
coke ordinarily used, and there was less slag.
. The process by which brown-coal briquettes
are converted into coke has been called the Womer
coking process, but Professor H. K. Worner, Dean
of the Faculty of Engineering at the University of
Melbourne, under whose supervision the fuel was
developed, insists that it provides an excellent
example of co-partnership in research. The work,
he says, began years ago in the Brown Coal Re-
search Laboratory at the University under the
general direction of Professor Henderson; Dr. R. S.
Andrews, now chairman of the Gas and Fuel Cor-
poration, co-operated in the planning and the early
experimental work was performed by F. A. Bull
and M. Towns.
For the past two years seven young Melbourne
University men have been engaged on the project.
The Victorian Government paid the salaries of five
of them, and the B.H.P. and B.H. Associated
Smelters each financed one of the remaining two.
The State Electricity Commission also assisted by
providing, free of charge, all the briquettes required
for the experiments and tests; the Gas and Fuel
Corporation built the pilot-plant and the foundry
section of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures
arranged for production-tests with the fuel (called
by Professor Womer “hard char”) to be made at
the foundry of T. Main and Sons.
As the professor says, “it will be seen that the
achievement is the result of the active co-operation
of several organisations and many people.” This
co-operation is symptomatic of the importance
these organisations attach to the purpose of the
experiments. Their interest is quite understandable.
Production of coke in Australia is limited, and the
demand is growing all the time. Most of it is pro-
duced in New South Wales, though gasworks in the
other States turn out considerable quantities as a
by-product. Victoria imports about 50,000 tons'of
coke every year, and the men behind the hard-char
project envisage a time in the not-distant future
when all the coke needed for Victorian industry will
be made from brown-coal.
As a result of the successful tests the Gas and
Fuel Corporation will now build a semi-commercial
plant at Morwell to produce 25 tons of coke a day,
This will be operating within 12 months, and, if it
is successful, bigger units, each with a daily capacity
of 200 tons, will follow. That, of course, is only
the beginning of the picture; the more enthusiastic
protagonists of hard char claim it provides the
means for a big expansion of industry in Victoria;
they see the Latrobe Valley, around Morwell and
Yalloum, developing into a great industrial area.
There seems to be no reason why the bigger
plants should not be a success. Dr. Andrews,
whose Gas and Fuel Corporation will have the re-
sponsibility of building them, asserts that the coke
is the best ever produced from brown-coal. He says
it is superior to the German product, and may even
be better than that from black coal.
The coke-plant will be the Gas and Fuel Cor-
poration’s second venture at Morwell. The other
is the production of gas from brown-coal. Gas will
be produced by the Lurgi pressure-gasification pro-
cess developed in Germany 20 years ago and used
in the German lignite fields. An 18in. pipeline
will convey the gas 103 miles to Melbourne and
feed it into the metropolitan system. The initial
plant, which is expected to come into production
towards the end of 1956, will have a yearly out-
put of 4380-million cubic feet of gas and it will
also produce 300,000 gallons of high-octane motor-
spirit and a million gallons of coal-tar. That will
be only a beginning; the ultimate target, to be
reached by 1976, is 20,000-million cubic feet of gas,
approximately equal to the entire Australian pro-
duction in pre-war years. By then, production of
by-products will be stepped-up to imposing quanti-
ties of motor-spirit, diesel and fuel-oil, coal-tar and
solvents.
The Latrobe Valley brown-coal deposits,
which now seem capable of supplying all Victoria’s
fuel needs instead of only its electricity, are of fan-
tastic value. They comprise three seams totalling
up to 880 ft. in thickness, and it is estimated that
the quantity suitable for opencut working is about
20,000-million tons; in comparison with deposits in
other countries the coal is easily accessible —the
overburden is only about 40ft. In some German
fields it is necessary to take off 100 ft. of over-
burden to get at seams only 33ft. thick.
When development of the Latrobe Valley
field began shortly after the end of World War I,
gas and coke were not envisaged as products; elec-
tricity was the main consideration, with briquettes
for domestic and factory-fuel as a sideline. The
briquette is the basic product on which the whole
economy of brown-coal stands. It is a moulded
block formed by crushing, drying and compressing
the raw brown-coal; about four tons of raw coal
is required to produce one ton of briquettes. The
briquettes have a calorific value much the same as
that of black coal. •
Yalloum power-station, fuelled by briquettes,
began operating in 1924; successive extensions
have brought its output to 275,000 kw., and
by 1958 this will be stepped-up to 375,000 kw.
At near-by Morwell another series of power-statibns
is in process of construction. The first unit will
begin generating in 1958, with an output of
42,000 kw., increasing to 66,000 kw. in 1959 and
91,000 kw. in 1960. By that time Morwell will
also be turning out 1 tons of briquettes
for use in gas-production and for fuelling power-
houses in other parts of the State. Already brown-
coal provides more than three-quarters of the elec-
tricity used in Victoria and the proportion is rising
all the time.
The hopes of the enthusiasts who see a steel
industry arising in the Latrobe Valley do not look
like being realised in the foreseeable future, but
there is no doubt at all that the Valley will become
a great industrial centres. Its development in 30
years from a rural district to the most important
single producer of fuel and power in the Common-
wealth is an astounding achievement.


THE GARDEN OF EDEN


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Third World War
The fight for the Middle East is now
really on. It is a part of the Soviet
Union plan to engulf South-East Asia.
What is happening represents nothing
new in strategy—the plan was outlined in
The Bulletin many years ago. Indeed,
the failure of Germany to agree to fall
in with it in 1940 changed the course of
history and led ultimately to the German
attack on the U.S.S.R.
The cynical Fascists of Moscow had
proposed, as part of the arrangements
for carving-up the world, that the
Middle-Eastern oil-zone should be
deeded to Russia, opening the way to the
Indian Ocean and to Africa. But this
scheme had no charms for either Hitler
or Mussolini, who didn’t wish to see the
Russians anywhere within reach of the
Mediterranean or controlling Persian oil.
The Russian scheme envisaged, and
still does, a pincer-iiiovement gripping
India from east and west and finally
closing on that dreamy country; and
another pincer closing round the strategic
Mediterranean region. China is the
weapon in the Far East, the Arab move-
ment in the west. In Africa and Asia it
was to be used to oust the British from
all their strongholds on the cry of
“colonialism.” In this campaign Moscow
knew that it could expect help from the
soft and sentimental American press and
from the “progressive” elements of
British countries. It would never occur
to any parlor-Pink that kind friends in the
Kremlin would be so base as to establish
a colonialism of their own after destroy-
ing the mild, constructive and humani-
tarian type implemented by the British.
The recent visits of Khrushchev and
Bulganin to India and Burma have been
part of the campaign; also the dis-
turbances in Morocco, which have been
used not merely to detach North Africa
from French influence but to provide a
political issue which would disturb
France internally and distract its people’s
attention from the threat developing
behind the Iron Curtain. The Soviet
moves have been highly successful, and
Communist work both in Egypt and in
Libya has been fruitful.
Communist agitation triggered-off the
Greek “freedom movement” in Cyprus,
behind which is a thoroughly ungrateful
Greek Government, which is anti-
communist but apparently ready to
accept Communist help to oust from a
possession, which has not been Greek
since the Year One, the Power which has
done most for Greek liberty.
Communist activity also has helped in
the Sudan, where a republic was set-up
unobtrusively last month, and it has
helped equally, but with more sudden
violence, in fanning the flames of dissen-
sion between Egypt and Israel and be-
tween Israel and other near-neighbors.
All this is part of the series of pincer-
movements. The vital immediate objec-
tive is to isolate the oil areas, to cut the
cord of British and American communi-
cations between the Mediterranean and
European countries and the East and
Australia ; to surround Turkey ; to sur-
round and intimidate India; to isolate
wherever possible allies which stand
united in the way of the realisation of
Communist world conquest.
The attitude of the average man in the
democratic countries is appalling. He
lives by wishful-thinking, with few
worries beyond his concern for a new
wage-rise or about the chances for the
next race-meeting. Yet all the time the
the grim power of hordes of slave people
in Russia and China and their satellites
is being sternly directed by a purposeful
junta to the task of wrecking the West’s
rosy dream and harnessing it to Com-
munist tasks. That is such of it as may
have survived the world revolution.
Part of the general-public attitude is
due to the fatalism induced by watching
retreat after retreat by Britain and the
Western Powers in the years since the
war.
At the moment British paratroopers
have been sent to Cyprus, which is
strategically vital to world security. A
flare-up to which the match has been set
by the Communists is in progress over
Jordan, of equal strategic importance to
the protection of vital oilfields which
provide civilisation with its lifeblood.
Turkey, our ally, one of the most im-
portant footholds in world-defence, is
menaced with threats of outflanking and
encirclement. The British Army is
revising its original plan to leave the Suez
Canal Zone in February—it can stay
there under agreement till June. Presi-
dent Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles are
exhorting Americans to wake up and
face the facts and pointing the need to
counter Soviet infiltration in the Middle
East before it is too late.
The world, in fact, is sliding towards
either war or surrender of the West of
its last outposts. But the prospective
victims, tens of millions of them, seem
t 6 be too busy watching racing-form,
trying to win “mammoth lotteries,” and
gloating over the “romance” of Miss
Grace Kelly, to be concerned about their
own obvious danger.
A Cheer for the Old 'Uns
The establishment of the new Ministry in
office at Canberra has been achieved at
the cost of some talent and the acquire-
ment of some inexperience which has to
be educated in Ministerial lore.
It is inevitable that when they reach
a certain age or decline in health Minis-
ters of the Crowd shall pass, but the
more experienced they are the more
they are apt to be missed in the inner
circle.
Earle Page is the doyen of those who
go out of the Ministry. Few men have
had more experience of administration
than he —certainly no living Australian.
There is no other alive who has sat in a
British War Cabinet (though Mr. Casey
was a British Minister of State) and who
has rubbed shoulders with the kind of
colleagues who made the House of Repre-
sentatives a brilliant debating Chamber
in the early 1920’5. He has been in Par-
liament since 1919; it is 23 years next
month since he first sat in a Ministry.
No doubt he will enjoy the novelty of
sitting on the back-benches.
Mr. Jos. Francis, who goes to New
York as Australian Consul-General, has
almost as long a record. He was a
wounded soldier of the 15th Battaiion in
World War I. He won what was then
one of the most populous of electorates
in- 1922, following two members who were
very hard to follow —Hugh Sinclair and
Arnold Wienholt. Nobody had since
been able to beat him. He will be
remembered as Minister for the Army
since 1949, and his period of office one in
which national training was established
on a firm and popular basis, in which the
Army was reorganised on modern lines,
and the permanent cadre of the Australian
Royal Regiment organised and blooded
in Korea; in which Army pay and ameni-
ties were revolutionised, and many
young and capable officers brought for-
ward. He was a popular Minister, but
at 65 he felt that it was time to let
younger blood have its chance.
H. L. Anthony, retiring from the Post-
master-Generalship, another soldier of
World War I, goes out of the Ministry
purely on the ground of ill-health.
There would have been no thought of his
resigning otherwise. He has a very sound
knowledge of the primary industries, is
one of the best debaters in the House, a
fearless fighter against Communism and
much respected by the Opposition in con-
troversy. He has been nearly 19 years
a member, and first became a Minister in
1940, assisting in the Treasury and Com-
merce Department.
He bore the brunt of the reorganisation
of commercial aviation in the formative
years after 1949. He was then passed on
to the Post Office at a time when it was
facing equal demands on its resources.
He has done a sound job, and would
certainly have been in the Cabinet, to
which he must be restored when his health
will allow him to stand the strain.
The last retirement is that of Mr. Kent
Hughes. His career has been brilliant,
if not always completely fruitful by rea-
son of circumstances. He was a Vic-
torian Rhodes Scholar of 1914, head of
his college, Christchurch, in Oxford,
honorsman in history, a half-blue in ath-
letics and lacrosse, captain of the Oxford
ski-team and represented Australia at the
Olympic Games.
He served with the Bth Light Horse in
World War I—M.C. and mentioned in
dispatches four times. At 37 he was an
honorary Minister in the Victorian
Ministry of 1932, and a rival of Mr.
Menzies for leadership. World War II
again interrupted his career. He returned
a full colonel of the Eighth Division with
3£ years as a p.-0.-w. behind him and
with his health pretty badly debilitated.
He had been Minister for the Interior and
Public Works since 1951.
He is an able debater, a keen student of
foreign affairs and will strengthen the
critical fire-power of the back-bench con-
siderably if he uses his capacity to the
full.
The men who go out are, generally
speaking, an abler lot than the new ones
on present showing. The country owes
them a cheer.
Melbourne City Council
“M.G.S.”: Melbourne has become a
big and busy city, its skyline rises and
changes almost daily, and its stream of
traffic gets more and more turgid and
ebbs and flows with increasingly madden-
ing slowness. The only thing that doesn’t
change in Melbourne is its City Council.
None of the major problems which
affect the happiness and comfort of the
citizens seems to interest it in the
slightest. For instance, a few weeks
back a flock of icebergs broke from their
moorings and drifted nearer the Victorian
coast than any previous iceberg had done,
and there followed 17 consecutive days of
rain and Antarctic blizzard which ruined
seaside businesses and the pleasure of
tens of thousands of Christmas campers.
There came one fine day of sunshine and
then ten more days of gloom and slush
and drizzle, and at time of writing the
icebergs continue obstinately to skulk
around, interfering with the local
weather.
What did the council do about it?
Absolutely nothing. It could have asked
the Harbor Trust to send its powerful
tug, the Euro, to tow the brutes back to
the Antarctic, and if that had been too
much for the Euro the Australian Navy
might have done it with pleasure, as
some return for the entertainment Mel-
bourne’s citizens, male and female, give
it when it pays its annual Cup-time visit.
Or it might have asked the British
Government to drop its next atomic
bomb on the bergs, or had them towed
into Hobson’s Bay, cut up and sold to
the milk-bars.
None of these ideas occurred to the
City Council, which seems to be cursed
with a positively extraordinary lack of
imagination. When a half-mile of tin
shed and old wharf was burned to the
water’s edge it was presented with an
opportunity for adding to the amenities
or beauty of the city that a Christopher
Wren would have jumped at. It could
have turned the empty space into a
badly-needed park or garden, or erected
a sound-shell, or a civic theatre. It did
none of these things—it pushed the
rubbish into the river and let the space
for a car-park.
The City Council shows the same lack
of imagination in cultural matters. A
powerful microscope would be needed
to detect any movement it has made in
that direction over the last two decades
in art, music, literature or science, except
let its hall for concerts and exhibitions.
The only service it has done for archi-
tecture is to scrape off the beautiful
patina which time and Nature had laid
on the Town Hall and spoil it, and the
only service it has done for sculpture
is to remove the excellent Greek statues
of goddesses and heroes from the Fitzroy
Gardens, while leaving the appalling
effigies of former councillors frightening
the children in public places.
During a much shorter period Lorenzo
the Magnificent commissioned Botticelli,
Ghirlandaio, Filippini Lippi, Signorelli,
Baldovinetti, Maiano, Verrocchio, Credi
and Leonardo da Vinci to build monu-
ments and palaces to his glory and paint
and sculpt his portrait, and at the same
time wrote his carnival songs and a love
epic. No Melbourne councillor has been
known to write a song, let alone an epic,
and the only portraits to be commissioned
have been photographs of outgoing Lord
Mayors in their chains and ermines.
Magnificence, it seems, isn’t in a
councillor’s constitution.
Britain and U.S. Go Alone
The position of France is one of the most
serious features of the world situation,
and it is difficult to see any solution.
All efforts so far to produce a stable
Government have failed. The Right-
wing parties can’t consolidate to form a
coalition. Unity among them seems
hopeless. If no other influence operated
against agreement, the programme and
attitude of the Poujadists, who won 52
seats and rose from nothing to a position
among the great blocs, would forbid it.
They are a party without even a really
stable programme. Their basic plank
seemed to be a demand that the country
should return to a bourgeois standard of
honesty in administration. Their
winning plank was an appeal to the
Frenchman’s inborn objection to paying
taxes except at the point of the gun.
Their success was such that they
believe that if they had had enough
candidates they could have come back
with an absolute majority. They are
working like beavers, on the basis of
some real or imagined illegality in the
poll, to secure another general election
at which they could launch an army of
opponents against the nominees of the
established parties. What their pro-
gramme would be if they won nobody
seems to have the faintest idea—not even
themselves.
The so-called “new deal” Mendes-
France party and the Socialists are both
adamant that they have won the decision
and are calling on President Coty, who
cannot act until the President of the
Assembly has been chosen next week, to
give them the portfolios. They make it
clear that if they do not get them they
will do their best to see that no other
party or parties is allowed to rule.
M. Faure, who is going out of office, is
in favor of a Government of National
Union, but nobody will have anything
to do with it, despite the fact that if ever
there were a crisis calling for a national
Government it is this. The external
situation demands it. Algeria is on the
edge of rebellion. The Indo-China
situation is at a crucial stage. Morocco
is in the melting-pot. And, worst of all,
the Saar, a critical factor both to the
French and German economies, has
acquired a pro-German Prime Minister
who says that unification of the Saar with
Germany is his first aim. He calls on
France and Germany immediately to
resume their talks on the matter, but in
France there is nobody in authority who
can do the talking. In Russia there is
grim jubilation. The rise in the numbers
of Communists in the Assembly is
regarded openly as one of the first great
fruits of the new Kremlin policy of
wooing the West.
In the event of war France would be
almost helpless, a clog rather than a
force. The position is less palatable
because so much of Nato’s centralised
organisation is in France and because
French ports mean so much in a
Continental war.
The effect on Germany might be
serious. It certainly is at present, and
the status of Germany in relation to
France has increased tremendously. It
might be later that Germany could come
to think the West not worth supporting
in Europe and try to make its peace with
the U.S.S.R. alone. It is too early to
see the trends.
But one thing is clear. At this junc-
ture France is useless, even a burden, as
a major ally, dangerous to trust as a
consultant.
Reactions to Cabinet
“In the ACT”: First reaction of some of
the new Federal Ministers was astonish-
ment at the nature of their portfolios.
First reaction of some very senior public
servants was one of dismay. Second-
thoughts proved soothing in both cases,
with a few exceptions.
It appeared at first that the Prime
Minister had deliberately ignored the
special qualifications of his new Ministers,
and assigned them tasks on which they
could have little or no prior background.
The new Army Minister, for example,
who is a housing expert, confided to some
friends that he really would have to
ascertain what the “pips” on the
shoulders of officers represented. But
while he was perhaps exaggerating his
ignorance of the details of his post, his
appointment, and that of his new col-
leagues, showed that Mr. Menzies was
really concerned at getting administrators
able to approach their tasks with trained
but fresh and eager minds. The main
thing was to get men who could tackle
responsibility without being overawed by
persons or events, and it can be acknow-
ledged that the team seems to fulfil this
requirement.
The future of the Customs Department,
and of the senior officials in it, was also
obscure. Division of the work of import-
licensing, one of the major tasks today
and seemingly one of the more permanent
of the “temporary” functions of gov-
ernment, between the portfolios of
Trade and of Customs may work out in
practice, or it may not. The Ministry or
Board of Trade is to fix policy—and the
prospect of a transfer of the central
office from William-street, Sydney, to
the wide open spaces of Canberra caused
near-panic in some circles —and the
Customs Department is to administer it.
This is a state of affairs which could
easily lead to internal friction and to
public annoyance unless matters are most
carefully handled. Mr. McEwen will cer-
tainly find his hands full, although much
of the work he has hitherto done, and
done well, will be taken over by Mr.
McMahon in the new post of Primary
Industry. McMahon, hardly a rural
type, took in good part the bantering of
his colleagues when the appointment was
announced.
The Prime Minister has not yet re-
solved the considerable difficulties pre-
sented by having facets of the defence
(i Continued on next page)


effort divided between five Ministers, and
it may be some time before he does so.
Sir Philip Mcßride apparently has a co-
ordinating role, and his experience should
be of value to him in tackling the finan-
cial and other problems involved. In
the general set-up the Prime Minister
has given few of his party any cause for
complaint. IjLven Mr. Kent Hughes came
out handsomely with a warm tribute to
the new members of the team from which
he had been dropped.
Fadden may have had more trouble in
selecting his Country-party five in the
face of strong arguments in favor of one
or two who were not picked, but he is too
old a campaigner to worry unduly about it.
The team now has its tasks in front of
it, with the Cabinet able to concentrate
largely on policy, and with Ministers re-
quired to concentrate on their depart-
ments. The way should be clear for “the
fitting of the Government machine to
cope more effectively with the great
economic and international problems”
with which the Prime Minister promised
Ministers would “urgently concern”
themselves.
POLITICAL POINTS
The critical N.S.W. election for the
Legislative Assembly would “probably”
be held on April 21, Premier Cahill has
announced. Only “unforeseen happen-
ings” would upset the programme,
which sets down April 3 as the date of
Cahill’s policy-speech, to be delivered at
Mascot.
The election was to be held on Decem-
ber 10 last year, which would have
been the same date as the Federal elec-
tion. Seeing that he couldn’t arrange it
ahead of that disastrous day for “Labor,”
Cahill postponed it as long as he possibly
could.
Assuming that the date holds good,
the Lib.-C.P.s have 13 weeks in which
to campaign against the Cahill blot on
the national landscape. They have plenty
to campaign against. Not since Lang’s
day have they had opponents so vulner-
able to the thrusts of economic com-
monsense and political decency. A com-
petent Lib.-C.P. Government —not neces-
sarily a brilliant one—would leave the
record of the Cahill mob for dead after
a couple of years in office. Bolte is
already showing what can be done in
Victoria.
• •
Gair is so far noncommittal about
Queensland’s election-date, after dis-
cussion with Cahill, but the latest the
poll can be held is June 2, and the an-
nouncement of a date will be made after
the Q.C.E. Convention at Mackay,
which begins on February 27.
• •
A section of the press is anxious to see
Archie Cameron out of the Speakership
and has been eagerly promoting the idea
that his state of health will preclude his
re-election, which last time was unani-
mous. The fact is that he has almost
completely recovered from last year’s
illness and will be on show in Canberra
this week to prove it.
• •
The aftermath of the blowing-up of an
Indian aircraft carrying Communist
Chinese delegates to the Bandoeng Afro-
Asian conference should put another nail
in the coffin of that embarrassing
excrescence, the Chiang Kai-shek Chinese
Government. It has refused to allow
the extradition to Hong Kong of the
criminal who put a time-bomb in the air-
craft at Kai Tak aerodrome, Kowloon.
It was a horrible and injudicious crime,
and somebody allegedly gave the sabo-
teur a large sum to do the job.
Perhaps Chiang, being logical, feels that
if he extradited the alleged criminal he
might also feel bound to extradite himself.
« •
Perhaps Minister for Works Renshaw
intends to shift the Blayney (N.S.W.)
abattoir to Fairy Meadow.
• •
A feature of the reconstruction of the
new Commonwealth Ministry was that
not one of the under-secretaries, who
were ostensibly appointed to give them
Ministerial training, has been chosen in
the new team. It seems time for the
funeral of the system, which has no
Constitutional authority and, with the
reorganisation of the Cabinet, no utility,
either.
• •
So Fred (“Dilly Dally”) Daly, “Labor”
Whip in the House of Reps., has been
given a “leader” grant by the U.S. State
Department “to observe the House of
Representatives and Senate in session” in
Washington. No doubt he will enjoy
himself. But is the State Department
indulging in the role of prophet in call-
ing it a “leader” grant?,
• •
Are there 14 Communists at Woomera,
or are there merely 14 casual voters,
duplicating similar groups all over Aus-
tralia? Security is reported to be most
concerned at the disclosure that 14
votes were cast at the rocket-range
polling-booth for the Communist candi-
dates for the Senate in South Australia,
and inquiries are reported to be in pro-
gress, not for the first time. The Gov-
ernment could be concerned because it
may feel that the United States, always
sensitive on such matters, will prove more
oysterlike than ever in exchanging or
sharing atomic and guided-missile secrets.
But surely if there are Communists on
the project they wouldn’t give themselves
away so openly. The votes were most
likely thoughtless mistakes.
• •
There is room for some misgiving over
the creation of the Primary Industry
portfolio in the new Menzies Ministry.
It is not clear where the power
over primary-industry comes from.
Section 51 of the Constitution gives
the Parliament power to deal
with “bounties on production or
export of goods.” Fisheries and trade and
commerce with other countries and
among the States are within Parliament’s
province. But not a word is said about
primary-industry. Unless the States
are willing to deed their powers to the
Commonwealth the new Minister will
MORE HAILSTORMS
“Would you say the hail is as large as hen-eggs or as big as tehnis-balls, Billy?”
have to act very warily to keep within
the Constitution.
• •
Queensland Premier Gair is no Evatt-
lover, but at the close of the Federal cam-
paign he was peddling the same line of
depression-talk, telling the electors that
the country was on the verge of collapse
and faced economic ruin. This was be-
cause of “the bungling of the Menzies-
Fadden Government,” and it was quite
possible that his own Government,
through shortage of money, would be
compelled to throw out of work “not
hundreds, but thousands” in the next
financial year. Gair was talking to the
electors of Griffith. Menzies answered
him, and other Queensland Ministers who
had talked in the same strain, with the
retort that 56 per cent, of the Gair Gov-
ernment’s income now came from the
Commonwealth tax-grant, compared with
47 per cent, in 1949 and that Queensland’s
share of loan-money was three times
greater than in the last year of “Labor”
government.
• •
N. S. Wales State Lottery income put
up records for 1955 —the public “invested”
£11,478,513 at a rate of odds 100 to 1.6
against winning any prize and 100,000
to one against winning first-prize.
The “investment” is equivalent to
about 45,000,000 five-shilling tickets
in a State whose population is under
4,000,000. And that takes no count of
the money that goes to the Golden Jests
in Queensland, Victoria and Tasmania.
• •
“Mugga Way”: There’ll be plenty of
brass around Melbourne from January
17 to 21, when the military advisers of
the eight member-nations of Seato gather
in conference. Australia’s delegation will
be led by Air-Marshal Sir John
McCauley, chief of the Air Staff, and
New Zealand’s by Major-Gen. C. E. Weir,
Chief of the General Staff. Admiral
Felix Stump will come for the U.S.,
General Sir Charles Loewen for Britain,
and other delegations will be led by'Vice-
Admiral d’Escadre Ortoli (France), Rear-
Admiral H. M. S. Choudri (Pakistan),
Lieut.-Gen. Jesus Vargas (Philippines),
and Gen. Jira Vichitsonggram (Thailand).
• *
In Melbourne this month to disen-
tangle the city’s traffic, Ralph T. Dorsey,
formerly chief traffic-engineer of Los
Angeles, where everything is on wheels.
His fee will be £4OOO for three months.
The Californian city had tied itself into
a worse knot than Melbourne when
Dorsey started to consider the problem.
He solved it more or less in short time
and without great expense by gaining
maximum use of the existing streets. If
he applies the same principle to Mel-
bourne he will be up against the fact
that the thing which prevents maximum
use of available streets is the tramcar.
According to latest statistics, Aus-
tralians are now 95 } p.c. British, com-
pared with 99i p.c. in 1947. The drop
has followed the high influx of migrants
over the past eight years, when slightly
more than half of the intake came from
non-British countries. In both compara-
tive figures “British” includes anyone
born in Australia regardless of his parent-
age. And that, of course, is the right way
to look at it. Every person bom in Aus-
tralia should regard himself, and be re-
garded as, an Australian.
Surprisingly, next to Italians, Dutch
represent the highest non-British nation-
ality in the Commonwealth. Poles and
Germans are ahead of the Yugoslavs,
who, like Italians, tend to live in com-
munities.
• •
In the flood of rumors which inundated
Canberra after the Cabinet and Ministry
announcement was a suggestion that
National Development might lose some
of its functions to the Trade Department,
but would gather in others, including,
it was thought, administration of the
C.5.1.R.0, For a long time the conduct-
ing of this highly scientific organisation
has been held, no one quite knew why,
by the holder of the External Affairs
portfolio. National Development may
increase in importance if some plans
mature.
• •
It looks as if the harassed Queensland
canegrowers, who have managed the
harvesting of their crops only with the
help of migrant labor from other States,
have a weapon to deal with shortages.
Pat Treacy, an ingenious blacksmith of
Pinnacle, in the Mackay district, has in-
vented a cane-harvesting machine, after
the canegrowers have spent thousands
over a decade on the production of one
without success. Though the new imple-
ment is naturally looked on with caution,
McEwen, Minister for Trade, who is
personally experienced in modern har-
vesting machinery, has said that Treacy’s
invention is “expected to reduce harvest-
ing costs significantly.” Pity somebody
can’t invent a mechanical wharfie.
• •
For the first time in remembered his-
tory, Sydney ferries stopped running be-
cause of a strike. The reason: refusal
of the State Government to pay captains
and engineers a basic-wage rise in accord-
ance with Cahill’s election bribe, even
if they are not entitled to it under their
Federal award. The Cahills don’t care.
It gave them a chance to test the com-
pressibility of the North Shore human —
and humid —body in their already over-
crowded buses and trams and decide
whether they could do away with
ferries altogether. Their motto: “Blow
the public—especially the North Shore
public.”
• •
On the subject of the new Ministers,
all Parliamentary opinion seems to sup-
port the choice of Osborne, Davidson
and Dr. Cameron ; but there is criticism
of the selection of Cramer, the only non-
retumed-soldier among the new members
of the team, as Minister for the Army,
and some surprise at the choice of
Roberton for Social he being
an experienced primary-producer; while
McMahon, who has never grown a
carrot, so far as anybody knows, has
Primary Industry. Both, however, are
only administrative jobs in which, if
either Minister tried to do something new
and original, he would be apt to find the
shadows of bigger men .falling between
him and the sun. Social Services have so
much political significance that every eye
is fixed on them, and Primary Industry
is babied by the two strongest rankers
in the Cabinet —Fadden and McEwen.
All in all, the team is as good as could
be expected in the light of the complica-
tions caused by State- and party-rights
which the Prime Minister carefully
respects. But it will no doubt spur on the
new members to do their best when they
look round at the back-benches and see
men like Fairbairn, Bostock, Schwartz,
Wentworth, Downer, Freeth, Drury,
Adermann and a few more sitting there
without a portfolio among them. South
Australia, incidentally, is not amused
that it has only one Minister after having
unexpectedly saved the Senate for the
Government. It has 9 per cent, of the
members of the Reps, and 4% per cent,
of Ministers. But balance can never be
perfect under the present method.
• •
Denial by the Japanese Labor Ministry
that the nation’s wage-standard is too
low is another shot in the negotiations
now proceeding over GATT. The Aus-
tralian Government will have to make
its mind up soon about Japanese trade
and other aspects of GATT. Ministers
are believed to feel that the Ottawa
Agreement must be retained as the foun-
dation of policy, although they admit that
revisions are needed, and needed urgently.
Fiscal policy generally may loom large
in the pending discussions.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
CJYDNEY “Daily Telegraph’s” four
columnists have their' brethren specu-
lating who will eat whom. Betting is on
Mr. Alexander Macdonald, who has the
reputation of being an amateur cook, and
so is capable of eating anything.—
“Nunk.”
“Macquarie”: My cobber’s kid, pre-
paring for a weekend at a health-and-
fitness camp, extracted a fiddly from his
mother to grubstake the expedition. He
returned from his shopping, satisfied,
though minus any change. But the money
had not gone on a reckless spending-
spree ; on the contrary, he had reckoned-
out that he would be having seven meals
away from home, and budgeted accord-
ingly—seven tins of baked-beans and a
Davy Crockett cap.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Nonnel”: Reckoned it was a crazy
idea, the missus learning to drive, and
was particularly annoyed when given two
unsightly big “Ls” to disfigure the front-
and back-windows. It’s quite some time
since Mrs. N. gave up the struggle, but I
have not taken the stickers down. I have
never been given so much road in my
experience as a driver!
❖ ❖
“Em Kay”: At least one works-super-
visor has an understanding heart. For
many months one of the largest depart-
ment-stores in Hobart has been excavat-
ing in the main business-street of the city.
Naturally, 99 per cent, of passing pedes-
trians stopped to check on progress.
Small boys dragged reluctant mothers to
the edge of the huge pit. When the work-
ings were boarded-off from the foot-
path, two holes, about 2in. in diameter,
were bored in the palisade, one about sft.
and the other about 18in. from the
ground. The upper one bore, in neatly
painted capitals, the legend “Pavement
Supervisor,” and the lower, “Canine
Supervisor.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jock”: Keeping on the right side of
the ledger is second-nature to members
of the Southland branch of the New
Zealand Society of Accountants. Its
annual balance-sheet shows that the last
year’s workings ended with a bank-
balance of one-penny.
* *
“Inglegar”: “And I hear you’ve been
swearing,” said Matron to the patient.
Sad nod of patient’s head, the bleary eyes
dimmed. “An’ is it any flamin’ wonder,
with all these hard-faced dames poking
and prodding and washing me all day an’
night? But get this, you old b ! If
you’d take that tablecloth off your head,
you’d be easier to look at than most of
’em, even though you’re old.” Patients
and staff took it in with flapping ears,
and maybe Matron, too.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rimutuka” : Was being carried along
by the crowd in a Brisbane chain-store.
A youngster of six dived for the outsize
straw-hat which a near-by shopping-bag
had whisked off. His parent seized his
hand and hauled him up, hat and all, and
admonished “Look ’ere, if anybody else
knocks your ’at orf, you kick ’em in the
shins! ”
♦+♦ ♦>
“Doormat”: Instead of going on his
honeymoon a young man was sentenced
in a Melbourne court to three months’
jail for assault on the day after his
wedding. The judge, in summing-up, said
“When THEY change formation WE’LL do the same.”
the jury’s recommendation to mercy
could not be taken to mean that it urged
the “granting of a blond.” That’s what
the Melbourne paper printed, anyway.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Geep”: A Newstralian friend had his
first swim in the West. As he towelled
himself afterwards, he said “It was good
inside.” “Inside?” I asked. ‘lnside
what?” “Inside the water,” he told me.
❖ *
“Bumpkin”: Archbishop Booth per-
formed the Blessing-of-the-Fleet cere-
mony at Queenscliff (Vic.) on New Year’s
Day, throwing a golden cross into the
waves of Bass Strait before the eyes of
hundreds of reverential fishermen. In
Greece 2500 years ago pagan priests per-
formed a similar rite, throwing the
“Look, Dad, there he goes—Davy Crockett! ,,
emblem of Neptune, a trident, into the
waters of the JEgean. The call to the sea
to yield up its abundance, which last year
was made at the picturesque fishing-port
of San Remo, ushered in the leanest year
in coastal history. Not that one suggests
trying a trident.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Wallboard”: Serving my country at
Balmoral Naval Depot, where I was on
light duties after a spell in hospital, I
was guarding the garbage-tin. Seems
that the tin’s contents were sold as pig-
food and careless matelots had played
havoc with the pigs’ innards by throwing
in used razor-blades. I was issued with
rifle and bayonet and ordered to prevent
such things. It was a pleasant interlude,
but after a few weeks the comments of
my messmates as to my usefulness to
the war-effort became wearying. Only
the Navy could dream-up the idea of a
guard for a garbage-tin; and remember-
ing the Service’s respect for tradition I
sometimes wonder whether, the precedent
having been established, some unfortu-
nate sailor is still standing, fully-
equipped, beside that selfsame garbage-
tin.
♦+♦ »>
“Curriedeggs”: As to lottery-tickets
and Bulletin nom-de-plumes: I bought
my first lottery-ticket about a month
back, and called it “Curriedeggs.” No
luck when the lottery was drawn, but
the next day my first Bulletin par.
appeared, under the name “Curried-
eggs.”
• • * s •
“So and So”: When buying lottery-
tickets, what to call my syndicate is
always a pain in the neck to me. Haying
in my youth been blessed with the nick-
name of “Boodle” — that, I thought, as I
made out my latest application-form,
may bring Fate to terms. On presenting
it at the window I found I’d forgotten to
get change, so the fed-up pen-driving
female automaton inside told me to get
some. Before I could turn, the lady
behind me in the queue said, “Here! I’ll
fix you up.” She did, too. I won a fiver.
I don’t know whether the lady scored or
not, but had she allowed me to leave,
she’d at least have put a fiver in her purse
—hard on her. So I later collected my
fortune with a mixture of remorse and
exultation. My next ticket will be en-
titled “My Lady”; if it loses, well and
good; if it wins, I shall begin to feel a
major criminal.
“Dorian”: After a lengthy Friday
peak-hour wait at the trouser-scorchers’
I was finally handed the brown-paper
parcel containing a pair of greys. At
home, unwrapped, the parcel did contain
grey trousers—waist 46-inches! I’m
still wondering what the big fellow said
When he discovered my modest 26-
inchers.
❖ ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: Many items that used to be
popular Christmas-gifts for men were in
small demand this Christmas. Some were
so out-of-date that I doubt if they could
be bought at all. Sock-suspenders, shirt-
sleeve suspenders, braces, cuff-links all
seem to be on the way out. Waistcoats
are almost obsolete, which means little
demand for pocket-watches, watch-chains
and medals. We are told that myxoma-
tosis has so reduced the number of
rabbits that the price of felt-hats will be
doubled, so it seems that felt-hats may
join the bustle and woollen combinations
as relics of the good old days.
* ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: A bank-clerk and his wife
live near, too near, me; and from witti-
cisms I’ve been unable to avoid hearing
I’d say their brief marriage has another
three months. Last night, after pro-
tracted dissension, indignation raised his
voice even higher than usual: “Where
the hell do you think the money comes
from?” he yelled. She replied, equally
audible and angry: “From the bank, I
hope—or do you make your own?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Geep”: It’s not quite true to say that
Joe Darling’s cricketing days were over
before he became a politician in 1921 (B.
28/12/’55). He was actively captaining
junior grades in Hobart up to the late
’twenties. The time I ran him out lives
as one of the most terrifying moments
of my life. The Hon. Joe Darling,
M.L.C., ex-captain of Australia, was a
rather unnerving partner for a jelly-kneed
youth playing his first season of club-
cricket. I’ve dropped catches off Athol
Townley’s medium-swingers and his
brother Rex’s slows. I even turfed one
once off one of the rare good balls Seddon
Vincent bowled. But that was before they
entered politics. Those dropped catches
rank as small blunders compared with my
contretemps with Mr. Darling.
♦> *X*
“Toby”: Doing some Mitchell Lib-
rary browsing I came across this in the
“Macleay Chronicle” of February 23,
1899:
Indecent Advertisements.
A few weeks ago, remarks a writer in the
“Stock and Station Journal,” a man writing to
me said that The Bulletin was the worst
paper in Australia in regard to quack-doctors
advertisements. I looked over it and it was
bad, very bad. In the current issue of The
Bulletin there isn’t a single advertisement oi
the kind. The “Red rag” has risen m
virtuous wrath and wiped them all out, every
one! Then it never snivels at the loss ot a
few thousand pounds a year. It takes no
credit for it. It appeals to nobody to sym-
pathise with it. Mind you, The Bulletin
isn’t converted. It hasn’t gone to tne
“penitent form.” It’s as bad and lmpuden
as ever it was, but it has struck out the horrible
suggestive, indecent advertisements. Some o
our respectable contemporaries ought to take a
hint now and follow The Bulletin s lea •
The fact that this widely-read paper has taken
such a step is a matter of no small importance
to the community, and it will do us mo
good than an Act of Parliament,
THE HOUSEWIVES OF CEYLON
“It is of the Australian women, and how
cheerfully and willingly they work, that I must
speak when I get home. They have no help,
yet in the evening they put on beautiful dresses
and give their husbands a nice kiss and a cup
of tea.”— Mr. Gladwin Kotalawala, M.P., of
Ceylon.
When Mr. Kotalawala praises the Aus-
tralian wife,
The Australian husband, not to be
outdone,
Seizes his chance to sing about the life
And manners of the housewife of
Ceylon:
Her husband is her master and her lord;
She never worries this hard-working
spouse
By saying there are things he can’t afford,
Or claiming she needs more to keep the
house;
And when the worthy man is making tea
And puts a bare two-handfuls in the
pot,
Does she give lectures on economy,
Or scream and tear her hair out ? She
does not.
No shopping, no despair, no pains, no
aches
Deprive him of her evening society;
Her moods and menus are not chops and
steaks
But curries, and of infinite variety.
She does not drag him through the night-
club scrum,
But dances for him to an Indian tune
And to the world’s most complicated
drum
Among the tamarinds, by the light of
the moon . . .
Australian housewives, Mr. Kotalawala,
Are all Australians have to call upon,
But when they seek the festive and the
gala
They dream about the housewives of
Ceylon.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TXE took his car to the garage to be
repainted. “I want the body done
with canary-yellow, picked out with car-
dinal-red and crescendo-green,” he said.
The garage-man tried to dissuade him,
but he was adamant, and the job was
done. The result looked as hideous as
the garage-man had forecast, but the
owner was delighted. “Ought to be
worth a tenner a week to me,” he
commented. He was a traveller, sel-
ling on commission only, and it was
back in the days when you really had to
hustle. He had been losing the orders
of country businessmen who were out
when he called —later, when they went
looking for him, they couldn’t find him.
But “Old Johnno’s yellow bus with the
red - and - green
stripes” could be
picked out half-a-
mile away . . . To-
day that man owns
one of Adelaide’s
most prosperous
stores. —“Bert the
Carpenter.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Wusslean”: The
paper that told me
sweepstakes with
prize-money totalling
£645,900 would be
drawn during Janu-
ary by a lottery-
organisation operat-
ing by Government-
permission in another
State reported im-
mediately beneath
this item that an s.-p.
operator was fined
£5O for taking bets
in a hotel-yard.
“X.S.”: Melbourne
Racing Club felt a
special interest in a
small portion of the
rain which has been
falling in Melbourne
—that part which fell
into the pluviograph of the Weather
Bureau. The club had insured a meet-
ing for £5OOO against 10 points falling be-
tween 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. on the Saturday.
The insurance-companies demanded a
more exact reading than normally given,
and, after careful calculations, the
bureau found that exactly 10 points had
fallen.
❖ ❖ *
"Jock”: Before he left for the Ant-
arctic, Rear-Admiral R. E. Byrd asked
Lyttelton (N.Z.) Harbor Board for the
services of a typist to do a last-minute
job. Mrs. H. Hurst was chosen, and she
was still hard at work when the admiral’s
ship, the Glacier, was steaming slowly
down the harbor towards Lyttelton Heads.
The tug Lyttelton followed the icebreaker
to the Heads. Finally the Glacier hove-to,
and Mrs. Hurst was slung seaward in a
chair and lowered into the pilot-boat.
Amateur photographers on the icebreaker
and the tug made sure that Mrs. Hurst
was the most photographed woman in
N.Z.
$ *!♦
“Curriedeggs”: I won’t take you up on
that bet, “Baggyduds” (B. 4/1/’56), but
for the whole of my three months in A-
company, 19th National Service Bat-
talion, I slaved over a “machine, bread-
cutting, hand-whirling.” The fact that
the bread was invariably stale did not
make it easy to forget that the aforesaid
“machine, bread-cutting” Was definitely
“hand-whirling.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rimutuka”: Dialled the number of
a Brisbane furnishing-company, and in-
quired if they had in stock single-bed
kapok-mattresses with blue coverings and
pillows to match. Didn’t get beyond that
before a scandalised voice at other end
said, “Madam! This is the crematorium.”
❖ ❖
“C. Vale”: Huge production-totals,
caused by a struggle for sales-leadership,
have resulted in each of America’s “Big-
Three” car-manufacturers opening sales-
rooms in direct opposition to their own
representatives. Retailers call the new-
“ What he needs is rest and quietness , so I suggest
YOU take a long holiday .”
comers “stimulators” (and other things),
and say they are only part of the factory-
pressure under which they now operate.
Factories say these “junior-dealerships”
are necessary where the product is “not
ably presented.” A Detroit dealer’s fac-
tory declared unsuitable the allotment
from which he sold his trade-ins and had
him erect a* new building on a new site.
Six months later, a stimulator from his
factory opened on the old lot, competing
against him for new-car sales from the
same site previously claimed inadequate
for a used-car lot.
“Geep”: Know a cove who had just
played a particularly aggressive badmin-
ton stroke when he found his upper
dental-plate airborne a couple of feet
from their normal champing-ground.
Hammond at first slip couldn’t have re-
acted more promptly. The owner took
them on the full, inches above the floor,
and had them back before half the small
audience realised what had happened.
I’d like to say he went on to win the
rally, but honestly can’t remember the
outcome. Only the embarrassment.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Widow”: I’ve just got round to read-
ing the par. about the fussy bank-
inspector insisting on bricking-up the
strongroom-vent, only to find that the
door wouldn’t open through lack of
air. This par. solved my problem. I’ve
just moved into a new house, one wall
of which is cupboards. One cupboard
has a false top for a manhole, one an
air-vent, but the third has taken all my
strength to open it. I borrowed my neigh-
bor’s husband and he bored a hole in
the back wall of this cupboard, and now
it opens easily.
❖ ❖
“Postscript”: Australian post-office
(and other Government) regulations are
framed to meet the needs of the com-
munity, not self-selected or special sec-
tions of it. If international reply-coupons
might be sent as second-class matter by
writers (B. 4/1/’56), why not other valu-
ables by anybody else? In short, why
bother sorting mail-matter into various
classes at various rates at all? If “writers
from the four comers of the world send
manuscripts with coupons” to editors in
South Africa (or almost anywhere) they
infringe the regulations just as “Eseven”
did —U.P.U. statutes coincide with those
of member-countries (of which South
Africa is one) as to the transition as mail
of moneys or valuables abroad.
* ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: A small silver crucifix
(15in. long) which had passed through
many hands in three continents figured in
the consecration of the Serbian Orthodox
Church of St. Sava, at Highgate, Perth,
on New Year’s Day. Believed to be more
than a century old, it was rescued from
the Cathedral of St. Petersburg (now
Leningrad) during the Red Revolution in
1917, smuggled out of Russia by an
escaping Tsarist general, and taken by
him to Peking and thence to Paris and
London. It was brought to Westralia by
the Hon. Mrs. M. J. Lindsay, of Yanchep
(W.A.), before World War 11.
♦*4 ' ♦£♦
“Peter Piper” (New Guinea): The
European officers of the Royal Papuan
Constabulary have long abandoned
British traditions of saluting for the more
democratic usage of the heroes of Holly-
wood war-epics—i.e., it doesn’t matter
where your hat is ; the salute’s the thing.
Even Hollywood, though, might have
raised its eyebrows at a full parade of
the local R.P.C. detachment, in dress-
uniform, drawn-up on our small-town
airstrip to do honor to a V.I.P. The plane
touched-down, stopped, and the Great
Man disembarked. Bayonets flashed in
the bright tropic sun as the guard came to
the “Present.” The martial notes of the
“General Salute” cut through the clear
air as the bugler did his part. The Great
Man, rigidly at attention, threw a perfect
salute in return and held it until the last
click of the “Slope-arms!” It was only
slightly marred by his dress of pork-pie
hat, short-sleeved sports-shirt, and suede
shoes.
❖ ❖ ❖
“C. Vale”: “She tried washing her hair
in beer for a couple of months, but it
didn’t do any good—apart from making
her dandruff very happy.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: My patient, the Old
Digger, blew in to say “Did y’ see that in
Australia alone, last year, six-hundred-
and-twenty-five men died of that same
operation as I had?” I clucked sympa-
thetically, and he added: “I think it calls
for a drink. How about you?” I re-
plied that it was only two weeks since he
had told me that he had seen the light.
“Yes, I know,” said he airily. “But it
would seem that a chap’s bloody lucky
to be alive!” And then, in an aside,
“Of course, there are some as’d say that
the number should have been six-hundred-
and-twenty-six!”
♦♦♦ ♦*+ *
“Wallboard”: The Perth resident of
a “garden suburb” whose allotment con-
sists largely of bitumen (“Geep,” B.
21/12/’55) has nothing on a neighbor of
mine who bought a Sydney home with
beautifully laid-out grounds and promptly
dug-up every inch of lawn and replaced
it with green concrete-slabs, each with a
white flower painted precisely in the
centre. He apparently has a marked
aversion from mowing, though he has
left a flower-box and two small pine-trees
which will undoubtedly require watering
from time to time.
♦+♦ ❖ ❖
IF Red China replaces its complex 3500-
year-old written language with a
Romanised phonetic version it will have
done a bigger job than the reform of
English spelling, which after a hundred
years of effort is more illogical than ever.
The Chinaman loves the picture-writ-
ing that nine-tenths of the population
can’t read, and a particularly nasty tor-
ment is reserved in the Buddhist hell for
him who destroys even a butcher’s bill.
There are 47,000 characters, each of
which has to be memorised, though
5000 are sufficient to enable the man-in-
the-street to read the dailies. Some char-
acters have up to 27 strokes, each of
which has to be made in an invariable
order or it looks uncultured.
There are only 400 sounds in the
spoken language, and they have to be
distributed amongst the 47,000, so that
as many as 50 characters will have the
same, sound.
Some dialects have up to twelve tones,
in which each character must be spoken ;
it is this that gives the spoken tongue
its rather pleasant sing-song. A different
tone gives a different meaning. There are
more than 200 dialects, so that the sound
and riieaning may vary, from province to
province, and from town to town.
I attended a Jockey Club banquet in
Shanghai where the only common lan-
guage was pidgin-English. Even the man-
darin-dialect of Peking, spoken by most
intellectuals throughout the country, has
dialect-variations.
Romanising the written language will
render it meaningless to the next pro-
vince. To overcome this it is proposed
to make the Peking-dialect universal.
There are about 500,000,000 Chinamen,
and if the Communists succeed in unify-
ing all their tongues within a couple of
centuries they will have done wonders.
LAO-DAR.
SHOPPING IN REVERSE
The wife is busy, what a fuss!
I must be her etutitsbus,
Down to the town I must levart
And play the lowly husband’s part,
l cannot shirk this duty as
It happens to be yadrutas,
The only day I need not go
Off to my loathly eciffo,
How she will triumph, laugh and scoff
If anything I should tegrof!
Her tones will be surcharged with venom
If I take insufficient yenom;
(it looks like rain, and heavy too,
I’d better take my allerbmu ),
The very first thing l must yub
Is, of course, my nitellub,
O gosh, my purchases are myriad,
I must get rettub from the yriad,
Then I’ll want some krop or nottum,
Mr. Bones, I know, has got ’em,
But surely nothing else will do as
Well as pounds of segasuas,
A pound of tea, a tin of jam,
Or, perhaps, edalamram.
My poor old spade has gone to gloryl
I must consult the regnomnori,
Ties I’ll get from Mr. Sheppard,
Our most reliable old repard,
l trot in there on willing limbs
And at the girls I wink and krims,
(Perhaps I’d best control my physog
And not arouse 'malicious pissog,
I don’t want, when l go to shop,
A mix-up with the ecilop ).
There now, I nearly had forgot
My 2lb. tin of occabot,
And wouldn’t it be truly tragic
If I left out the setteragic ?
Then there will be a scene of chaos
If I forget the rab of paos,
And I should have to face the furies
If I brought no nedlog purys;
Some mags, with pictures on the back
Of supytalp and ooragnak.
Now, with those treasures for the tots,
Off to where the sub will pots;
How she’ll rejoice when I’ve arrived
Chortling and chuckling like the lived
To see how well I have contrived!
Among the husbands I’m the pick
And I’m as happy as a gnik.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


PERSONAL ITEMS
William Watt Leggatt, Victorian
Minister for Education, is to be the
State’s next Agent-General in London.
Born in the New Hebrides, son of a mis-
sionary, he was in the two wars. In the
first, Army lieutenant, and while serving
graduated 8.A.; in the second, lieutenant-
colonel, into Jap hands in Timor, p.-0.-w.
at Changi, “mentioned” and awarded
D.S.O. Barrister and solicitor, he has
held the Mornington seat since 1947.
• •
Harold Blair, Australia’s only aborigi-
nal singer who has been abroad and
gained an overseas reputation, is looking
into another profession, acting—doing
Crooks, the negro stableman in Stein-
beck’s “Of Mice and Men” at Mel-
bourne’s Union Theatre. He was also a
member of the Binghi ballet in the
Moomba show at the Princess Theatre.
As actors, all abos. seem to be “naturals” ;
Blair’s was as good acting as Melbourne
has seen in a long time.
• •
“Tiki”: Dr. C. P. McMeekan, super-
intendent of Ruakura (N.Z.) Animal
Research Station, has the quality of being
able to say “No” to his own self-interest
and stick to his post for his country’s
welfare. This came to light when he
declined an offer from the World Bank
of a job at five-times his present salary
He decided that “the problem of main-
taining permanent high-quality research
in New Zealand is not going to be solved
by people in my kind of position running
away overseas.” That kind of sentiment
could do with much wider endorsement
in the Dominion, which has lost scores
of skilled and clever men, many to Aus-
tralia. McMeekan, with a world-reputa-
tion in livestock-research, doesn’t mean
people “in his kind of position” to be
taken cheaply, all the same. “Obviously,”
he commented, “New Zealand cannot
match the offer, but it is time scientists
and engineers here were paid a decent
wage.”
• •
“Avon”: Among the latest to earn
membership of the M.C.C. is Sir Arthur
Sims, New Zealand philanthropist and
industrialist —and cricket stylist. Now
approaching 80, S’Arthur has won
notice by his gifts for the advancement
of science. It was his £lO,OOO which
launched the Lord Rutherford Memorial
Fellowship, by which Commonwealth
students study science at Cambridge,
and the Sims Commonwealth Travelling
Professorship enables the exchange of
visits by eminent doctors. He gave N.Z.
its first supply of radium, and his funds
provided the first N.Z. surgical-unit to
serve with the Bth Army. The M.C.C.
has honored him as an old cricketer.
Before the Kaiser’s stoush he captained
New Zealand and Canterbury. As far
back as 1899 he toured Australia, and in
1905 and 1910 played in all matches
against Australia in New Zealand. Since
1938 he has lived in England, paying
occasional visits to his homeland.
Brisbane architect, T. B. F. GARGETT,
who joined the firm which is now
Conrad and Garget t as a pupil in 1914;
past-president, Queensland Chapter, Royal
Australian Institute of Architects, mem-
ber Queensland Board of Architects,
Federal Council of the R.A.I.A., plays
golf.
This is Ray Lawler, who last year
was co-winner of the Sydney Playwrights’
Advisory Board’s play-of-the-year with
his “Summer of the 17th Doll.”
The script was handed to Hugh Hunt;
RAY LAWLER
cne play is now enjoying a very nice
summer at the Elizabethan Theatre, the
first' Australian effort to be there aired.
Of a family of eight (all put to a trade),
Lawler began at 13 in an engineering-
factory. Ten years there; past 10 years’
living earned by writing for the theatre —
in between doing sketches for variety,
producing, stooging for comics, and (as
Barney, the pint-size canecutter) acting in
his own play. Now with a steady purpose
in Melbourne, director of production for
the Union Theatre Repertory Company
(sponsored by the University), which he
took over from John Sumner, now pro-
ducing Lawler’s play in Sydney.
• •
Succeeding Air-Marshal Sir Richard
Williams, D. G. Anderson takes over as
Director-General of Civil Aviation. The
new man’s continuous association with
life is three years less than his predeces-
sor’s 41 years of continuous association
with aviation, beginning when 45 m.p.h.
was a good speed. Anderson was a
South Aus. schoolie when he joined the
R.A.A.F., and had flown 3000 hours at
the late war’s end. Joining the depart-
ment as an examiner, he passed through
the various grades from Superintendent
of Traffic to Assistant Director-General.
He has figured at international air-
conferences and was secretary-general
when the South Pacific regional meeting
on international civil aviation was held in
Melbourne.
• •
“Fitz”: South Australian poet and novelist
Reginald Charles (Rex) Ingamells, who was
killed when his car overturned on the Jeparit-
Dimboola-road in western Victoria, had
flowered young as a writer, had made a sub-
stantial contribution to Australian literature,
and was progressing towards full maturity with
the promise of richer things to come.
At one time the youngest author in Who’s
Who in Australia, son of a Methodist clergy-
man, he was born at Orroroo (S.A.), acquiring
early a love of bushland and sea-coast, an
interest in historical associations, and a concern
for the native tribes that roamed the parched
wastes of the interior. Later he carried his
swag, worked aboard a schooner trading along
the South Australian coast, toiled on Murray
River fruit-blocks, went walkabout with a
native in Central Australia, and witnessed
corroborees on the shores of the Arafura Sea.
After leaving Adelaide University he worked
as a freelance journalist, private tutor, W.E.A.
lecturer and schoolteacher. In 1946 he joined
the Melbourne publishing firm of Georgian
House, which he left a few months ago to enter
an advertising agency.
F. W. Preece, of Adelaide, published his first
book of verse, Gumtops, in 1934, when he was
21. Three years later, Ingamells founded in
Adelaide the Jindyworobak Club, which for
years published an annual collection of con-
temporary verse, mostly influenced by
aboriginal themes.
Under a 1949 Commonwealth Literary Fund
Fellowship, Ingamells wrote his The Great
South Land epic poem (published in 1951, it
won the Australian Literature Society Gold
Medal for that year) and the novel Of Us Now
Living, which has a background of Australian
history (it was published in 1952). At the time
of his death he was working on a book of Aus-
tralian aboriginal mythology, and was also
planning an exhibition of his paintings for early
this year.
Slim, fair-haired, boyish, he was an easy
and pleasant conversationalist. People had
told me he was apt to react violently to any
adverse notices, so when I first met him near
the picture of Chloe at Young and Jack-
son s, Melbourne, I introduced into our talk
the names of Harry Green and Brian Elliott,
who had recently criticised his work with some
seventy. Instead of the verbal fireworks I
expected, Ingamells laughed and bought me a
beer out of his turn.
A note from P. Hindmarsh, retired
N.S.W. Education Department inspector,
and formerly headmaster of Yanco and
Hurlstone Agricultural High Schools:
Major Alex. G. Keys [sailed for England in
Strathnaver] was a Hurlstone lad in my day.
Has a bright disposition, secured a good
Leaving Certificate pass, represented his school
in the Hume Barbour debating competitions,
was a first-class centre-threequarter and a sound
prefect. He came from a farm at Ando, down
the Cooma line. * War coming, Keys enlisted
early, was retained as an instructor, but gpt
away to the advance on Japan. Re-enlisted in
the Korean war, won the Military Cross. On
his return he was selected as Liberal to oppose
Fraser for the Eden-Monaro seat, and he gave
Fraser a very good run. Now he has won a
Nuffield Scholarship. It is apparently for
practising farmers who have the intelligence and
ability to pass on to the countryside the
information gathered in a six-months’ tour of
England.
• •
“F.S.”: A( 66 Daryl Lindsay retires
from the directorship of the National
Gallery in Melbourne after 14 years in
office, to be succeeded by Eric Westbrook,
the young director of the Auckland
(N.Z.) Gallery, who is so up-and-coming
and in the modern fashion that he wants
the Melbourne institution to be a leading
place of entertainment, where even jazz
can be played amongst the El Grecos and
the Rembrandts. Lindsay took over the
conservative tradition established by
Bernard Hall. Although Lindsay’s own
painting is traditional and academic, he
has gradually embraced, or at least toler-
ated, the modern fashions. During his
stewardship great works from the past,
including the Gainsborough landscape,
the Constable, the El Greco and another
Rembrandt, have been admitted, but for
one of these a hundred contemporary pic-
tures have been purchased. Westbrook
will have the organisation of the Olympic
Exhibition, planned for November and
December. Forty, he is the youngest
director the gallery has had.
• •
To M. H. Ellis, The Bulletin’s “Ek
Dum,” for his contribution to Australian
literature, a C.M.G. in the New Year’s
honors. Something hithdrto unknown in
George-street North in the memory of
the oldest inhabitant.
• •
New Year Honors added 0;B.E. to the
M.A. that Old Digger and educationist
Tom Sten achieved after return from
War I. Now superintendent of teacher-
training in the Westralian Education
Department, he stepped-off as a monitor
and trod most rungs of the upward
ladder. Two years ago he returned from
an extended tour of the U.K. and Western
Europe, looking over British, German,
Dutch and Italian educational methods.
Sten’s first visit to Europe was with the old
44th Battalion. From 1950 to 1952 he
was R.S.L. State president in W.A.
• •
Dr. Reg. Ellery, who has passed on at
57, was one of Melbourne’s first psychia-
trists, wrote several books on his speci-
ality, visited Russia in the early days of
the Soviet regime to investigate the inci-
dence of neurosis among the liberated
workers, and on his return wrote a provo-
cative book about it. He stirred-up
sufficient controversy to get a royal com-
mission appointed to investigate mental-
hospital administration, and when a
medical officer at Mont Park he conducted
the first experiments in Australia on treat-
ment of g.p.i. by injections of the malaria
virus. His Bulletin contributions, too,
were flavored by his love of controversy;
these were mostly “Red Page” articles,
in which he put forward his views on
drama, art, and the like. His father, by
the way, was the most unusual Town Cleric
Adelaide ever had; his widow is the
well-known harpsichordist Mancel Kirby.
The Cow Jumped Over the Moon, his
autobiography, is now with the printer.
It should be worth reading.
• •
“Watto”: Latest step in refurbishing
New Zealand’s police force is the appoint-
ment of Brigadier L. G. Goss, C. 8., as
first commandant of the new national
police-school soon to be opened in Wel-
lington. A Duntroon graduate, the Brig,
served with the N.Z.E.F. in France and
Belgium in the first dust-up; last time
Australians got to know him was when,
as the Allied counter-offensive began in
the Pacific in 1942, he was on special
liaison duties at headquarters of Supreme
Command, Anzac area. A year later he
had command of- the Bth Infantry
Brigade, Third Div., in the ..Pacific, and,
later still, Allied forces on the Treasury
Islands. He was appointed in 1944 to
the New Zealand Staff, and when he
retired held the job of Deputy-Chief of
the General Staff.
Miss Mabel Jewell Baker (new 0.8. E.)
took over Walford House Girls’ School,
Adelaide, when its premises consisted of
one suburban cottage. Assisted by her
sister, Miss A. J. Baker, as housekeeper
and bursar, she built it up until a move
to much larger premises became neces-
sary. Now, close on 40 years later, Wal-
ford has grown to one of the best-known
schools in the Commonwealth, with an
enviable record of scholastic successes.
Upon Miss M. J. Baker’s retirement last
month the school was taken over by the
Church of England. Miss Baker’s out-
side activities included president of Head
Mistresses’ Association of S.A., vice-pre-
sident of the Federal body, member of
the Public Examinations Board of Adel-
aide University, and membership of St.
Ann’s University College since its incep-
tion (she helped to found it).
• •
Sighted in Fremantle—or “back home
again,” as he expressed it —after an
absence of just over 10 years, Comman-
der Howard R. McAuliffe, U.S.N. (re-
tired). Now 61, he spent 18 months in
the port, in command of ARD-10, a
483 ft. steel hulk, which he navigated from
San Francisco in 1944. The hulk was used
as a dock for servicing Allied ships,
mostly submarines, which were done at
the average rate of one every two days.
Best show was the servicing of five ships
in 25 hours, including draining and re-
filling the dock. His present intention is
to “stick round for a while” before going
on to renew friendships in other States.
• •
Appointed general-secretary of the
South Australian Chamber of Manufac-
tures, C. W- Branson takes on from H.
Winterbottom, gone to be chief Aus-
tralian migration-officer in Germany. A
genial six-footer, Branson’s been chair-
man of his State’s Industries Advisory
Committee and regional director of the
Department of National Development
since 1949. Raised in the country town
of Tarlee (beginning 1914), he’s trained
C. W. BRANSON
to business (B.Ec., Adelaide, Diploma of
Commerce, Melbourne), is on the execu-
tive of the Adelaide division of the Insti-
tute of Management, one time presided
over the Economic Society of Australia
and New Zealand, and now presides over
the State Baptist Union.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 54, while surfing at Ulladulla (N.S.W.),
Joseph Goldman, graduate of Sydney Univer-
sity, 30 years general-practitioner at Fairfield
and Maroubra (Sydney), with time-out to serve
in the Second A.I.F. Reliable friend to
hundreds in Fairfield during the depression;
available any hour of the night—and cheerful
about it, despite the strong possibility of no
money being there to pay even the cost of
petrol. He leaves a wife and three children,
two of them also doctors —a daughter, Dr. S.
Goldman, was rescued from the rip which
drowned her father.
In Melbourne, Theresa Officer, of a property-
owning family in the Riverina, where she
established 21 branches of the Australian
Women’s National League, which in War I
raised more than £lO,OOO. A former repre-
sentative on the Victorian branch of the League
of Nations Union, she had been a Justice of
the Peace for N.S.W., one of the first women
to receive the appointment.
At 78, in Hobart, G. V. Brooks, C.8.E., an
energetic and original Director of Education in
Tasmania. He established area-schools, an
agricultural school at Scottsdale, abolished
home-work in primary schools and external
examinations to intermediate standard, sub-
stituting the accrediting system. He also
founded the free-library movement in the
Island.
In Brisbane, at 57, L. G. (“Len”) Robinson,
of Palm Beach (Q.), formerly of Sydney and
Lord Howe Island. Founder and managing-
director of L. G. Robinson and Co., he was
an Old Digger, 30th Battalion, and founder of
Lord Howe Island R.S.L. Club. Member also
of Sydney City Tatt.’s, he owned several race-
horses, including Foxzami (Melbourne Cup,
1949). He was a widely-travelled and expert
cinephotographer.




ABORIGINALITIES
sheep, I sent the dog to
stop the lead. Off he went at break-
neck speed, but only for about 50yds.,
when back he came at the same pace,
with a big emu right on his tail. I rode
over to the nest; several chicks were just
out of the shell. They stood up, fell
down, got up again and staggered in
assorted directions into the long grass.
Within 10 seconds there wasn’t a young
emu to be seen. There were two eggs
in the nest; one was chipped. Dad Emu
had done the chipping; he knew there
was a chick ready to come out. The other
egg didn’t have a mark on it; there
was no chick in it. Dad knew that, too.
—“Harry L.”
* * * *
“Coringa”: Two Dalby (Q.) men,
“Snow” Fingleton and Bob Young,
stacked a barley intake of 9614 bags in
10 hours using one elevator. The tally
weighed about 675 tons. The pair of
hustlers earned £43 each for the day.
* * * *
“Peter Piper” (New Guinea): Autho-
rity decided to construct a jeep-track
from our bush out-station to District
Headquarters on the coast. A District
Services officer made a preliminary sur-
vey, pointing out to the native villagers
en route the benefits they would reap by
having a main road run through their
“Stop sulking and Well let you steer the ship!”
settlements. He suggested they might
like to help with the scheme. A couple
of weeks later a village headman arrived
at the station and asked for an interview
with the kiap. He said he had been very
impressed with the kiap’s plans for a
motor-road; he would like his village to
be among the first to contribute, and
had therefore brought with him two
young men to be trained as truck-drivers.
The kiap having a share of humor, the
two young men are making good pro-
gress under the tuition of the Govern-
ment tractor-driver. The first sod of the
new road still remains to be turned.
* * * *
Recent modern investigations
of carbon deposits from trees at Wairau
(N.Z.) have proved that cooking-fires
were lit there around a.d. 1150, which is
200 years before the estimated date of
the great Maori migration under Toi,
who arrived between the time of Kupe’s
circumnavigation of the islands and the
big fleet’s arrival. Dr. Roger Duff, Can-
terbury Museum, Christchurch, and Dr.
Robert Bell, U.S. Fulbright scholar in
archaeology, made the test.
* * * *
“Bass”: “Quo Vadis” covers a lot of
ground when he speaks of “an ordinary
everyday hawk” (B. 14/12/’55). There
are three groups of hawks in Australia,
none of them “ordinary”: the falcons, the
osprey (only one species), and a third
group which includes eagles, buzzards,
sparrowhawks, goshawks, kites and har-
riers. The falcons have long wings, but
short tails, though the tail comes in for a
lot of use. I’d be surprised to find that
a falcon could fly—apparently perfectly
—minus its tail-feathers. I don’t know
what purpose the tail serves —I suspect
it’s used more for braking, than for
manoeuvring—but I’ve seen a wild-duck
with its stern denuded having a bad time
keeping any sort of direction. Falcons
don’t chase their prey; they dive on it
with incredible speed, and once they
launch their attack there’s no great need
for changing direction. Similarly, there’d
be no point in braking, since a falcon
kills with the strike; so one might sur-
vive until a new set of tail-feathers grew.
But a hovering falcon seems to get a lot
of its helicopter-action from the tail, and
I think one bereft of it would probably
have as many misses as meals.
* * * *
“Metralia”: A new satellite is circling
the earth, 400 miles above the Equator,
according to London “Sunday Dis-
patch.” It’s difficult to see against the
sky, being “a dull blue.” Handy for
those who make New Year resolutions to
be broken only once in a blue moon.
* * * *
“Flight”: Where is going to be the
last stand of the plain-turkey? Though
it’s to be deplored that man should kill
so noble a bird for so poor a meal, the
few he takes are a drop in the waterhole
compared with the numbers that fall to
the fox—and, if the bird should be wiped
out, it will be the imported pest that will
have done it. I once thought the open
plains of the Flinders would be the last
stand of the ground-nesting turkey, but
the fox is now there in strength. Now
I nominate the Barkly. The turkey is in
greater numbers there than anywhere in
Queensland. The question is: can the
fox stand the racket in that tough
country? I don’t think he can. Rabbits
have been known along the Georgina for
the best part of 60 to 80 years ; they never
increased. A few foxes could clean them
out in a year. Apart from these, and
a few small ground-nesting birds—there
are no lambs there—there is nothing but
the turk. for the fox in that region, the
climate of which would test the fox to
the limit. But if he can get there and
survive, then the plain-turkey is doomed.
* * * *
“Raulawat”: When dredges were
being installed for the first operations at
BuJolo (T.N.G.) technical experts came
from the U.S. to start us off. One of
them, holding forth to a group of natives,
said: “You sawee? First time German
’e come up, ’em,” tapping his head, “no
got brains. Then Australian ’e come,”
“And this one is for getting horses' hooves out of stone!"
still head-tapping, “ ’em ’e got liklik
brains, find ’em gold, datsall, no savvee
workem. Now American ’e come up, ’em
’e got plenty brains,” rubbing his head
vigorously ; “you savvee?” “Yes, Masta,”
replied one of the bucks, “mepellar
savvee, datsall mepellar callem dispellar
someting, louse /”
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Skilled handling of
natives previously hostile brought success
to a patrol into the lumu valley in the N.G.
Southern Highlands. In 1953 a native-
constable was fatally wounded there, and
last August several carriers and a con-
stable sustained minor arrow- and spear-
wounds. The new patrol, led by W. W.
Crellin, accompanied by J. P. Sinclair,
was told a display of strength was needed,
so took along a police-unit of 32 men.
All the local headmen were called
in and within three weeks all had
been to the base camp, accompanied
by their fighting-men. They were
shown how rifle-fire could drill
wooden targets, dispelling illusions
created by earlier patrols firing
over their heads, and they apolo-
gised for the death of the constable
in ’53. Instead of arrests of those
involved in the August attack the
patrol accepted the offer of the
headman to send relays of about
a dozen men to work for a month
on the Tari airstrip. Negotiations
were started between the lumus
and their traditional enemies in the
area, with mutual exchange of pigs,
and then each hamlet was visited.
Great quantities of food were
pressed on the patrol, Crellin noting
in his report that it would have been
difficult for an outsider to realise that
a month previously they had got arrows.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Ararat (Vic.) city council-
lors must be guileless souls if they don’t
know the stock cover-up for use in cases
such as the historic grapevine on the
no-longer-permitted veranda-post (B.
14/12/’55). When our town was emerg-
ing from its hamlet-chrysalis the Civic
Fathers passed an edict that all posts sup-
porting shop-awnings were to be removed
and cantilevers installed. One of the
shops altered was not designed for the
new type, with the result that the awning
flapped visibly in the lift of heavy winds,
and appeared to be in danger of collaps-
ing. The owner informed the building-
inspector that he had carried out council’s
instructions; therefore, if any person
should be injured following the awning’s
collapse, all damages would be on council.
The inspector tried bluff, found it didn’t
work, then reported to the Mayor. Mild
panic was spreading through the Council
Chambers when the veteran town clerk
pulled the bunny out of the hat —“Per-
mission to erect temporary awning-posts
—of seven-by-seven hardwood.” That
was 32 years ago ; the temporary posts
are still there.
“Maitri”: A Sydney columnist, be-
wailing the fact that he finds so few
Westralian flowering-gums in the suburbs,
attributes the scarcity to the time they
take to mature; but if the scarcity exists
it’s more probably due to the rapidity
of their demise. Six of ours went down
one night before a severe southerly buster.
Also, two doors along the street there
was quite a grove till a couple of years
back, when, for no apparent reason, all
gave up the ghost but one. The blossom
of the flowering-gum is always attractive,
and many of the trees are shapely enough,
but some for ungainly awkwardness are
hard to beat. Two battle along in our
side-street: one, an attractive pink, makes
more deadwood than any other tree l
know. Another has a trunk which
ascends some 18ft. before it spreads out
into precisely three boughs (to survey
its blossoms you need to lie on your
back). There’s something to be said for
dramatic starkness, but nothing for gaunt
ungracefulness.
T’VE never had any doubt that the old
bush songs—like those “Banjo” Pater-
son collected, the group recently pub-
lished in The Bulletin, John Meredith’s
collection of Kelly songs and the set of
70 songs with music lately published by
Hugh Anderson in Victoria —will even-
tually become something of a cult in
Australia, just as the hillbilly and fron-
tier songs popularised by Burl Ives have
been in America.
The latest step forward is the forma-
tion of a company to make and sell
gramophone-records of the songs: Wattle
Recordings (of 131 Cathedral-street,
East Sydney). The Wattles have already
one specimen-record on sale in Sydney
music-shops, “Bullockies’ Ball” and
“Drover’s Dream,” sung by Alan Scott,
with music by the Bushwhackers’ Band,
and other titles in preparation for the
near future are “The Wild Colonial Boy,”
“Nine Miles From Gundagai,” with “The
Old Bullock Dray,” and Lawson’s
“Andy’s Gone with Cattle,” with “The
Green Bushes,” sung by Beth Schurr.
The A.B.C. is to broadcast some of the
records on Australia Day.
The moving spirit behind the scheme is
Glenn Hamilton, who was the original
chairman of the Australian Folklore
Society in Sydney. He’s a schoolteacher
and started collecting bush-songs when
he was stationed at country-schools.
D.S.
OF NIGHT
On such a night
do spirits soft converse?
I feel they might
and walk with sweet communion
and delight
about our universe.
O blessed beauteous night
with all the world away.-
away away
it echoes soft and sad
away away
like sheoaks in a dream
(the world so tight compressed
in what a sleep!
of beautified mystery
and glistening-listening sanctity
quite unaware.)
All, the night my own and the lightning in
the cloud,
all the night my own,
and thank the gods for this;
but oh, the pity of it, fellow-man
held in his vice-of-life
sleeps on.
Let me sink into the night
let me sink
into the well of this beauty—
this rapture! Let me oh let me lean
on the warm arm of the wind,
the crickets’ song
and the great roll-call of cloud!
Silver of quietude
be me,
and I your chasm,
a pearl-passivity.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN.


'QtiitjkUfaAU ii biaatfiVttlm!
FACTS PROVE IT!
BEDFORD ENGINES : are all extra-duty, low revving, 6-cylinder, O.H.V. units,
I giving petrol-saving, hour-saving performance ... the right power for every job.
B.H.P. ranges from 76 to 114.6: maximum torque developments from 168.5
to 236 lb. ft.
WORK-SAVER, FATIGUE-SAVER : Drivers Will tell you that Bedford 3-man
2 all-steel cabs mean more comfort, less fatigue, safer driving. Insulated against
dust and noise, 3-point rubber-mounted against vibration. Synchromesh gears,
worm and sector steering, triple-safety Lockheed hydraulic brakes (vacuum-
assisted over 30-cwt. models) make driving surer, easier.
BEDFORDS LAST LONGER ! Chassis frame, suspension, clutch, gearbox and r
3 drive-line are Bedford-engineered for top-capacity operation through years L
of longer life. Over 24 years of experience in truck-building stand behind
today’s Bedford.
BIGGEST VALUE ! Truckmen like British Bedfords for the job they do . . .
£§ for their suitability, dependability, economy and performance. They know that a
Bedford truck performance means more work per day, more profit per truck.
Official truck registration figures to end of October 1955, prove that
Australian truckmen bought more British Bedfords than any other make!
AND, you can’t sell truckmen anything but the best! They know what
pays dividends; they know that Bedford gives them more truck value for
their money, and Bedford lasts longer.
Lg
j
©
©
f
LOW FIRST COST FOR CHASSIS AND CAB
PROVES BEDFORD’S VALUE FROM
15/18 CWT. TO 6/7 TONS.
Ask your Dealer for details of
the latest addition to the Bed-
ford range—the
new Bedford \
TON VAN
priced at £BB5
* G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase arrangements
are available for your convenience. Ask your Bedford
dealer.
* Bedford is backed by a nation-wide service and
parts organisation.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
LTD.
• PERTH
850/36
BUILD YOUR BUSINESS ON BRITISH BEDFORD —AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE TRUCK . .
T\ON’T know what barnacles and mol-
luscs used for a natural habitat
before the advent of ships, but whatever
it was they are due to go back to it.
Ultrasonic waves sent through ships’
hulls are both too slight and too high-
pitched for human discomfort, but the
under-waterline residents find them a
nerve-shattering din. A couple of British
ships equipped with the necessary mech-
anism now provide less bottom-scraping
when they dry-dock.—“Tackline S.”
* * * *
“Baksac”: “Ocombe” is right in noting
that Ma ’Roo’s pouch is never a “trans-
verse slit” (B. 14/11/’55). Neither is a
possum’s: it, too, when unoccupied, runs
vertically. The mouth of the silver-
grey’s pouch is a continuation of the
brown streak of fur which runs down
the centre of the body from the under-
side of the chin. But pouch-pattern is
not standard throughout the whole mar-
supial clan: Ma Bandicoot wears hers
pointing downwards and backwards —not
a bad piece of forethought on the part of
Dame Nature, either. Considering that
the bandy hasn’t much road-clearance,
that it inhabits rough, scrubby country,
and that the gait is something between a
kangaroo-hop and a gallop, the rear-
vision effect of the pouch must save Junior
many a nasty bump on the nose. But
why should the tiger-cat have a crescent-
shaped flapped pouch?
* * * *
“Geep”: Even the pestiferous Argen-
tine-ant has its virtues. Italian scientists
have isolated from it the first pure anti-
biotic of animal origin, and have named
it Iridomyrmecin. The bodies of worker-
ants are treated with ether and the anti-
biotic extracted, along with impurities.
Subsequent purification is relatively
simple.
* * * • *
“N.A.8.”: Two of the few remaining
unnamed mountain-peaks in New Zea-
land’s South Island have now been given
titles. One on the Main Divide, in the
Canterbury-Westland area a mile north
of Mt. Livingstone, has been called
Alamein; the other, half-a-mile away,
becomes Cassino. Both, of course, com-
memorate battles in which N.Z. troops
played a major role.
“Spin”: The report that goats relish
mesquite-leaves and -pods (B. 14/12/’55)
is just another argument against the im-
portation of that tree. In W.A.’s pastoral
areas we’re doing everything we can to
discourage goats, which rank with
donkeys and foxes as the State’s worst
imported pests—mesquite coming not far
behind. Goats are so numerous that
several shipments have been made to
Singapore.
* * * *
“Kelms”: I read that “two professional
fishermen” , were “startled” when they
found a turtle swimming a mile-and-a-
half out to sea. The turtle “seemed quite
unperturbed at the distance from shore.”
There are four species of marine turtle —
the green, or edible turtle, which provides
Lord Mayors’ banquets with the much-
overrated turtle-soup; the hawks,bill,
from which we get tortoiseshell; the
loggerhead ; and Kemp’s turtle. The first
three are world-wide in their distribu-
tion ; the fourth occurs only in the North
Atlantic. All four are adapted for a life
at sea, with paddles instead of legs, and
they make hard work of the 30yd.-trek
up the beach to lay their eggs, the only
time any of them come ashore. Now, if
one of them had been seen a mile-and-
half inland, that would be a story!
# * * *
“Bellfield”: The belief still persists that
hybrids can never breed. Maybe the
odds are against it, but the fox-dog
alliance in the kelpie strain hasn’t made
that breed any less prolific than other
kinds of canine. And aviculturists have
crossed canaries with siskins to develop
a red-plumaged bird, then bred the
hybrid back to a canary, establishing the
long-sought red canary. I once crossed
a chestnut-finch with a nutmeg, and the
resultant chestmeg mated with a manni-
kin, producing one offspring. But a
potential romance in my mate’s aviary
has me biting my nails—his solitary
rosella is showing no aversion to the com-
pany of an amorous cock-budgerigar.
Here’s hoping for a budgerella, or at least
a roserigar.
AUTUMN-FLOWERING CASSIA
Here is the tree whose branches hold
September’s promised, never-given gold
that spins through windless air from a purse of
green
to cover the underturf with shadowy coin
no one can seize. The shadows store
in little distances apart a sign
of something only calm can measure and refine.
O watch these glittering boughs that bear
more than a weight of gold, and less than air.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.
Bang Goes an Institution!
THE old Army claim that you could
always tell a Perth man by the fact
that every time a gun went off he looked
at his watch won’t hold in the next
stoush, if any. The one-o’clock time-
signal has been silenced.
The Observatory “gun” had been part-
and-parcel of Perth life for 50-odd
years. Its inauguration was hailed as a
great and necessary advance towards
civilisation. It was certainly necessary.
That was in 1902. Six years previously
the Observatory had been built and pre-
parations made for installing a twin-
telescope equipped for stellar photo-
graphy, the equipment being supplied so
that Perth could participate in an inter-
national scheme for mapping the stars.
A meeting of astronomers in Paris had
decided that the whole of the sky should
be mapped, and a number of countries
had each been given a section to photo-
graph and plot. Identical equipment was
set-up in each country, the cost then
being about £20,000 each; but the South
American republic chosen for the job got
mixed-up in a series of revolutions, so
the equipment came to Perth.
The first W.A. Government Astrono-
mer, W. E. Cooke, was appointed early
in 1896, and was appalled at the condi-
tion of the Perth public clocks. No one
in the colony had the correct time or the
“What d ' you reckon, Mukwuk?”
means of determining it; so while Cooke
was waiting for his instruments to arrive
he borrowed some from a surveyor, estab-
lished Standard-time at the Observatory,
and procured a clock which was capable
of controlling other clocks electrically,
Then he started to spread the gospel of
punctuality throughout the colony.
He did a good job with his limited
means. He placed a clock, controlled by
the “time”-clock, in a prominent position
in the Observatory grounds, and arranged
for a time-ball to drop at exactly one-
o’clock in the window of an optician’s
shop in Hay-street, near the Town Hall,
That afforded a comparison, and the
Town Hall time improved. Then Cooke
connected his standard-clock to a couple
in the main telegraph-station and
arranged for the noon-signal to go out to
all the telegraph-offices, and shortly
afterwards the railways came into the
scheme with a parent-clock at Perth
station. That put correct time within
reach of every telegraph- and railway-
station.
Meanwhile a stand had been rigged-up
at Arthur Head, overlooking Fremantle
Harbor, and a large black ball dropped
at one-o’clock, also worked from the
standard-clock. The idea was to give
ships’ officer? a chance to check their
chronometers after the long trip from
Colombo or across the Bight.
To make the signal more obvious the
harbormaster mounted a small brass can-
non facing down High-street, and con-
nected it to the same circuit.
That worked so well that an old iron
six-pounder was mounted on Observatory
Hill overlooking Perth, and each week-
day at one-o’clock, and noon on Satur-
days, an electrical impulse from the
“time”-clock put a spark to a pound of
blasting-powder and sent the message
crashing out. Twelve years later, in 1914,
a fog-signal was substituted for the gun,
and later this was changed to a piece of
gelignite. That gave a clearer, sharper
crack which carried further,
Complaints from doctors, hospitals
and residents, however, spelt the doom of
the old signal.
A generation accustomed to having the
time hurled at them every few minutes
from the radio probably won’t mourn its
passing; but the “gun” was part of the
old-timers’ lives. Until comparatively
recently there were farms out from Perth
on which one of Mum’s jobs was to go
out each day at noon and pull the trigger
of an old blunderbus specially mounted
for the purpose,
NANGABROOK.


In 5 Years
Your £5OO must grow to £6lB'ls'
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT GUARANTEES
THIS HIGH RETURN
Your Money earns 4f% per annum for either 5 or 10 years,
at your option, from this Authorised Trustee Investment,
Your Interest is payable half-yearly, direct to your bank
account if you wish, free of exchange.
Your Security is complete—both principal and interest are
unconditionally guaranteed by the New South Wales
Government.
Your Investment is quickly arranged at any Commonwealth
Trading Bank, through a Stockbroker or at the Sydney Water
Board offices.
If you hold securities in Loan No. 39 (matured Ist January,
1956), conversion to the new Loan gains you £4/15/- per cent,
instead of £3/11/3 per cent, from Ist January.
DON’T DELAY-HEAVY SUPPORT FOR LOAN MAKES
IMMEDIATE INVESTMENT ADVISABLE!
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Loan No. 143 wM elate not later than 23rd January, 1956.
WBL9A-56
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Inflation and the States
T'HREATS of further internal
inflation and the intractable
overseas trading deficit are noted
by the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia as being chief among the
pressing problems confronting
the new Federal Ministry. With
weakened export prospects, costs
again tending upwards, and in-
flation threatening generally, the
bank emphasises that the course
of wage-levels is of vital im-
portance to stability.
It adds that it would be a poor
commentary on our ability to
manage our affairs to find the
Government urging the need for
higher taxation to offset the
effects of some decision which
resulted in a general rise in
money-wages and -salaries.
Such a collision could only result
in the whole community suffer-
ing in one way or another.
All of this is true. Another
regrettable collision during the
present difficult economic year
would be one between the
Government of N.S.W.
(“Labor”) and the Federal
Government.
Not only is the economy of
the country subject to Arbitra-
tion Court decisions as well as
Federal Budgetary provisions ; it
is particularly subject to actions,
co-operative or otherwise, of
State Governments.
In N.S.W. the Cahill Govern-
ment has been consistently
obstructive to the anti-infla-
tionary aims of the Federal
Government, and while it
remains so it seems impossible
for Federal objectives to be
achieved.
Tooheys, Ltd.
YX/TTH rights to the 6 p.c. unse-
cured convertible notes going
at 9d., making about 21s. when
fully-paid, the board of Toohey’s,
Ltd., has thought it opportune
} to mention that in making the
issue the directors considered
’ that the capital-requirements of
the co. for the period of the issue
would be adequately provided
for.
In the absence of any extra-
ordinary circumstances, it was
not intended to seek further
capital during the period.
This statement is important so
far as those taking up the notes
are concerned. The notes will
not be redeemable; they must
be converted into ordinary
shares on a pound-for-pound
basis on January 31, 1962—that
is, six years from now. Mean-
time they carry 6 p.c. interest,
but do not participate in any
new share-issues.
The present offer is of
£2,338,875 in £1 6 p.c. notes.
Paid capital is now £3,898,125.
When some uncalled capital
comes in and the notes are con-
verted, in 1962 paid capital will
become £6,237,000, assuming
that the board’s forecast that no
further capital will be required
meantime is substantiated.
The new capital is required to
develop the co.’s 16-acre site at
Auburn, where the bottling
department is to be transferred as
a first step. Draught-beer out-
put is also to be increased, and
“normal expansion” will be pro-
vided for. There will also be
outlay on hotels.
The 6 p.c. convertible-note
method has the advantage of
lightening the interest or
dividend charge during the
period when capital expendi-
ture will not be earning
its keep. The 6 p.c. interest will
be deductible, by the co., for tax
purposes, whereas the dividend
is at present 8 p.c., and it is
payable only after company-tax
has been met by the co.
At the fully-paid price of 21s.
the notes would yield 5.7 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. interest basis, and 7.6 p.c.
if, when converted into ords., the
div. remains at 8 p.c. The fully-
paid ords. that are now selling
at 265. 6d. yield 6 p.c.
The convertible notes are
chiefly attractive for longish
holding and for capital-appreci-
ation in private hands.
’Wales New Issue
/"ANE-FOR-THREE on a date
to be announced, the new
issue of 219,500 £2O shares by
the Bank of N.S.W. at a pre-
mium of £5 a share will bring
in £5,487,500 and raise paid
capital to £17,560,(XX). Previous
issue was one-for-two at a
premium of £7 10s. at the end of
1953. The announced aim of
the issue is to sustain liquidity,
and to maintain the ratio of
shareholders’ funds to assets
employed.
Oil Shares Up
A MPOL EXPLORATION was
the chief oil-stock to move
up in sympathy with the rise
in Oil Search scrip following
reports of a gas-show at 998 ft.
in the Kuru well (western
Papua).
Oil Search rose 45.-ss. in two
days. In the same period Ampol
Ex. went up 2s. There is abso-
lutely no geological connection
between the two areas (one in
Papua, the other in W.A.), but
the psychological tie is strong.
Nearly all oil issues rose
a little following the Kuru
announcement.
Furphies, N.L.
“T EMON”: After a period of
hibernation which was. in-
duced, probably, by the know-
ledge that the companies actively
engaged in drilling for oil in
Papua would immediately pub-
lish news of any worth-while
discovery, the Port Moresby
furphy-factory has shown some
signs of animation.
Field operations were at a stage
where no major strike was
possible ; the genesis of the recent
furphy was due most probably to
the crapulous misinterpretation
of statements by oilmen from the
west in Moresby on a Yuletide
alcoholiday.
The Papuan operating group,
of which Oil Search is a partner,
immediately denied any oil-strike
and pointed out the folly of ex-
pecting one at the present stage
of drilling.
The position was in no way
altered by' the announcement on
January 11 that substantial gas
had been encountered at 998 ft.
in the Kuru well.
The Kuru well was spudded-in
on New Year’s Day, and the
gas was not observed until after
the launching of the “oil-strike”
rumor. It was found to be
escaping from behind the 18|in.
casing which had been cemented
at 449 ft. The operating co.
states that the significance of the
gas can’t be determined until
the hole is put into a satisfactory
condition for a formation-test.
Previous experience in Papua
has proved that shallow gas-
strikes aie common and have
little bearing on the results to
be expected at depth ; they have
no significance outside the unit-
structure in which they occur.
Morris Hedstrom
TJOLDERS of 95 p.c. of the
ord. shares in Morris Hed-
strom, Ltd., have agreed to
accept 3| W. R. Carpenter ss.
shares and 30s. in cash for every
Morris Hedstrom £1 ord.
W. R. Carpenter shares are
selling at 20s. 9d., and the co.
is paying 15 p.c. The new shares
will rank for div. as from Oct.
1, 1955.
W. E. Bird, Ltd.
■pOLLOWING announcements
of stock overvaluations and
further deterioration of the com-
pany’s position, a receiver has
been appointed in W. E. Bird,
Ltd., Sydney, on behalf of the
Bank of N. S. Wales.
Before Christmas, Myer’s, of
Melbourne, offered 6s. Bd., cash,
a share for W. E. Bird ords.,
subject to verification of stocks.
When stock-errors were disclosed
Myer’s reduced its bid to Is. a
share. Then, when the announce-
ment of “further deterioration”
came, Myer’s withdrew their
offer altogether.
One attraction of the Bird
business originally was its im-
port-licensing quotas. Its accu-
mulated losses may also, have
value for taxation purposes in
the hands of a takeover com-
pany. In any case, someone was
prepared to pay a shilling a share
for the scrip last week.
Cape Range
"CROM L. Owen: The run of
siltstone, which has persisted
in the Cape Range No. 2 well
from about 4000 ft. to below
15,000 ft. without sensible break,
would now appear to be on the
point of a change.
The equivalent of the Birdrong
sandstone was reached at 3640 ft.,
but a drill-stem test at that
horizon yielded only brackish
water. The exact depth at which
the siltstone was entered has
not been published, and may be
indeterminate, but it was very
near to 4000 ft. Undue hardness
was not'evident in the upper
section, as is evidenced by the
fact that the drilling-rate down
to 8000 ft. averaged well over
100 ft. a day, even when the time
taken up by stoppages for coring
and testing is included. From
8000 ft. to 10,000 ft. the rate per
drilling-week averaged 570 ft.;
from 10,000 ft. to 12,500 ft., 300 ft.
a week, and only slightly less to
bottom.
These figures indicate com-
paratively trouble-free forma-
tional conditions and strongly
suggest that both caving and gas-
shows, where they occur, can be
tied up with zones of faulted
ground.
It is not stated in the co.’s
reports whether the anticipated
change in the character of the
strata is deduced from an altera-
tion in the grain-size of the silt-
stone or by a change in the
mineral constituents, or both.
These are most important points
in determining the scope of the
extended operations. It is pos-
sible, of course, that any change
may be due to the proximity
of another fault-zone.
In the commonly-encountered
stratigraphic column, so-called
rhythmic conditions of deposi-
tion produce, at fairly short in-
tervals, alterations in porosity,
permeability and other physical
and chemical characteristics.
Where, however, an isostatic
condition persists—that is, where
subsidence of the depositional
trough just balances the rate of
infilling—the physical (and even
the- mineralogical) properties of
the column may continue without
sensible change oyer thousands
of feet.
It is obvious that a persistent
isostatic condition, without
rhythmic interludes, gives rise to
an environment unfavorable to
the segregation of petroleum in
commercial quantities, although
“shows” of oil or gas may be
struck right down the column.
It is to be hoped, therefore, that
a substantial change of forma-
tion will be encountered during
the deepening of Cape Range
well No. 2.


Public Notices
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1955.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board
of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales, returns showing the total amount
of the premiums received by or due to
such companies in respect of risks against
fire during the year ending Slst December,
1955, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1955, applies; less
any part of such premiums actually paid
by way of reinsurance to any other in-
surance companies contributing under the
said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1956, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the re-
quired returns may be obtained from the
undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
L. G. WATT, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons, etc.,
insuring with any Insurance
Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act ,
1909-1955.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1955, has been applied, in _ respect
of which premiums are paid to an insur-
ance company not registered in the State;
are hereby notified that they are required
to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales, returns show-
ing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property
to such insurance companies during the
year 1955.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st
January, 1956, subject to a penalty not
exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default.
Note : Ketums are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales,
L. G. WATT, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
1
m.
7M
m
• .
**$tm
SHB
'
WHEN
BUSINESS
GOES
ABROAD
Organising a business trip is a most important
matter, requiring careful thought and planning.
Experienced businessmen have found that it
pays to consult A.N.Z. Bank. In addition to
unsurpassed facilities for foreign currency
arrangements, complete travel services and
worthwhile business introductions are provided
as normal features of the Bank’s highly
organised service for travelling businessmen.
Officers of A.N.Z. Bank too, are constantly on
the move throughout the world, and their
experience ensures that A.N.Z. Bank’s service
for travelling businessmen is always up-to-date.
Every A.N.Z. Bank Manager is backed by
specialised departments which make full 6se
of the Bank’s contacts throughout the world.
A*N*Z
When planning a
business trip:
“Ask A.N.Z. Bank
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London.
Agents throughout the World.
—■ i m-ANZ.55.1389
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
BENZOL
makes all the difference
m
ip-.jf J
3
i ... /;
U
W 4
m
llil
W 1489c.c. M.G
Any experienced racing driver will tell you the addition of
extra BENZOL to his fuel is a must to get Optimum Per-
formance from his engine. Gruelling racing speed won’t interest
private motorists but ail the ‘OP’ advantages of extra BENZOL
wi11 ... You’ll appreciate the quicker '
starting, livelier acceleration and
smoother, more positive power of
BP SUPER or C.O.R STANDARD ...
. . . the only motor
spirits containing extra
BP
R
snm
SUPER IIiSISTANDARD
BENZOL
BPiSUPER. like Special Energol VISCO-STATIC Motor OU—the original 4 grades in I oil
acclaimed by world motorists—ii worth so much more than tho extra it costs.
Marketed by H/C3OC
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Co. Ltd
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
IT is encouraging to learn that,
■*- although the economic front
promises to be critical and
indecisive during the early
months of 1956, the new Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer can
derive comfort from the fact that
the surplus of revenue over
expenditure is likely to be a sub-
stantial one. When the income-
tax now due has been paid it is
estimated that the present deficit
of £370 million will have become
a surplus of some £350 million
which, with further improve-
ment, may give Mr. Macmillan
a Budget-surplus of over £4OO
million by April. This, of course,
is subject to “below-the line”
absorptions, but the severest of
these has been reduced by the
provision in the autumn Budget
which forces local authorities on
to the open market for their
borrowings.
Other problems in front of
Mr. Macmillan are less happy.
Indeed, they are so pressing that
he can’t afford to hold them over
until April. The City and the
constituencies, for example, are
crying incessantly for reductions
in Government expenditure. If
the axe is to fall it must fall
soon, when the estimates from
the various departments are sub-
mitted.
The contestants for the great
leap-frog marathon are lined-up,
confident and hostile: the
engineers’ claim for wage-
increases amounts to £l5O million
a year out of an estimated total
of £4OO million. And the Govern-
ment is faced with the most
serious, industrial struggle for 30
years. The greater problem is the
insistent one, inflation. Last
year’s wage-increases (of £5OO
million) have all been overtaken
by price-increases. The credit-
squeeze appears to have been
inadequate to cope with the
situation. And the whole affair
resolves, quite simply, into the
failure of our present system of
collective bargaining in condi-
tions of overfull employment.
New Brooms
To be frank, the Government’s
performance has disappointed
its well-wishers. Especially
psychologically. The nation has
not been given the firm sense of
positive leadership that it ex-
pected. Sir Anthony Eden is
suspect of vacillation and dither-
ing, especially in the making of
decisions. Mr. Butler, though
anything but a spent force, is
accused of a too-indulgent opti-
mism while at the Treasury. And
the Government as a whole has
provoked its most loyal sup-
porters into vexed frustration.
Of the Ministerial changes, the
most surprising is the transfer of
Mr. Harold Macmillan from the
Foreign Office, after the shortest
of tenures, to the Treasury. Mr.
Butler, it is true, is tired after his
exertions during four years as
Chancellor and there is a need
for him as Deputy Prime
Minister and, not least, as
architect for Conservative policy
in the politically crucial years
ahead. Perhaps Sir Anthony,
foreseeing stormy times, wants
a tough man as Chancellor:
someone whose actions will not
be inhibited by sensitivity. Mr.
Macmillan is a man of tremen-
dous drive, as he showed when
Minister of Housing, and his
urbanity is not liable to be ruffled
by unpopular acts. He has, in
fact, a very thick skin.
As was expected, several
younger men, many of them Mr.
Butler’s own proteges, have been
promoted. Mr. lan Macleod has
a good record and great qualities,
all of which he will need at the
Ministry of Labor, for he takes
over at an unenviable time. An
interesting appointment is that of
Mr. Aubrey Jones to the
Ministry of Fuel and Power, for
he is a miner’s son who has risen
to the general directorship of the
British Iron and Steel Federation.
There is wisdom, too, in leav-
ing Mr. Peter Thorneycroft at the
Board of Trade and Sir David
Eccles at the Ministry of Edu-
cation. Both have demonstrably
proved that they can stand firm
against vested interests.
Taxation Prospect
Taxation is much in the news
at present. It appears that
the Welfare State can subsist
only with a taxation revenue at
least as heavy as at present. Also
that exhortations from con-
stituency organisations, econo-
mists and financial pundits for
a reduction in Government
expenditure are pure wishful-
thinking.
The question, then, is not
“How can taxation be reduced?”
but “How can it be modified to
cause a minimum of distress to
all parties concerned?” Plainly
the late Chancellor’s policy,
though rudely set back by the
inflation of last summer, is to
reduce direct taxation, thus
giving incentive both to working
and to saving.
He would seem to have
accepted, in the manner of the
late Mr. Hobson, the only
alternative choice —the modern
view that taxation should be
based on spendings, not on earn-
ings. And, maybe, Mr. Butler’s
recent extension of the range of
purchase-tax is something in the
nature of a pilot scheme. This
marks a subtle change in the
application of this tax. It was
intended originally to deter
people from buying certain
luxury goods in favor of
“utility” goods. Now it appears
simply as a means of raising
revenue and as an instrument of
selective fiscal control. It is
certainly less objectionable than
the now-mooted “flat” sales-tax,
which would not discriminate
between luxuries and necessities.
Another controversial issue is
the taxation of companies. At
present they are taxed on both
income and distributed profits.
There is now much talk of a
so-called “corporation tax.”
That is to say, the company and
the individual will be treated
quite separately, even to standard
rates of taxation.
Jingo Bells
The Old Vitfs concession to
the school holidays, “Henry V,”
is so good that, if it were the
work of an outsider, we should
all be calling the Administrators
to account, imploring them to
look to their laurels.
It is Michael Benthall’s best
production so far and a worthy
sequel to Denis Carey’s memor-
able “Henry IV” of last summer.
Especially commendable is the
simplicity with which (even in
the overlong clerics’ scene) Mr.
Benthall brings out the king’s
motives and nobility of mind.
And, by giving the victors
humility, a sense of purpose and
an implied magnanimity, he also
contrives to suffuse the overripe
jingoism. His achievement
might have been even fuller if
he had not made the French
such decadent poltroons and if
he had imparted more polish to
the final mise en scene, which
is sloppy.
Richard Burton’s Henry is a
triumph in all but technical co-
ordination of mind and muscle.
There never was a more relaxed
actor but, unfortunately, the
body is often obviously sleeping
when the head and voice are
tense and awake. This is a great
king, though, and one to lead
men into combat' —mature,
exalted, intelligent and, above
all, dedicated. The range of
mood and expression is wide,
from the whisper of the “Upon
the king” to the fervor and con-
viction of the Saint Crispin’s Day
soliloquy and the perfect natural
climax before “The day is
yours,” when anger has changed
to exultation and exultation to
relief. He enters into the spirit
of the delightful love-scene with-
out quite making it ring true.
The smallest Fluellen (Dudley
Jones) ever seen is also the best,
being at once twinkling, doughty
and warlike. Rachel Roberts
brings genuine pathos to Mistress
Quickly, both in her fallen con-
dition and in her distress over the
dead Falstaff. Other supporting
parts have force and conviction
but Richard Wordsworth’s Pistol
is distracting, suggesting a very
tall Robinson Crusoe.
Also distracting, though in a
different way, is John Neville’s
Chorus. Byronic, handsome and
obtrusive, he rolls a wondrous
eye, carves the air with elegant
hands, speaks the verse as if
every syllable were twice as rich
as it is and shares a curtain-
call with the king. Just like a
matinee idol and, no doubt, just
as good for business.


Have
you made your WILL?
I
The Trustees Executors & Agency
’ COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
TRS3.3*
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
1; 1 <•*' ! l■* : •
NEW SOUIH WALES DIRECTORS:
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited
Executor and Trustee under your Will, you safeguard your Estate and
secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered
by special Acts of Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet getting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
4.01 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve s, £972,657.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme;
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.©., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Mgrshead, K.C.B.
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter. ,
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Com’wealth Industrial Gases, Ltd.
ANY co. or group which can carry out
a £l-i-million expansion-programme
without asking shareholders to assist, and
by adding no more than £198,288 net to
its total fixed and floating debt (including
tax-provision), and at the same time in-
crease its earnings and further strengthen
its liquid position, is very fortunate
indeed. That is what this big C.I.G.
group did last term, when it set out on a
five-year programme of development
estimated to cost upwards of £5,000,000.
By the time the programme is com-
plete, however, those on the register may
be given an opportunity to put up fresh
share-capital. On file basis of last term’s
figures, a one-for-two issue seems a
likely possibility. Anticipating its bene-
fits, the market prices the co.’s f.-p. £1
shares at 51s. (50s. a year ago) to give
an immediate return of 3.9 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. A 6 p.c. return would
call for a 15 p.c. distribution, or a one-
for-two new share-issue and a 12|- p.c.
div., which would then call for £296,983
less profit than was earned last term.
Net tangible cover at September 30 last
was 345. 4d.
The group consists of parent holding
co. and nine operating subsidiaries, of
which six make industrial gases, one
manufactures industrial- and medical-gas
equipment, and the other two turn out
electrodes and arc- and resistance-weld-
ing equipment. And plant is now being
installed for production of argon gas—
previously imported from Britain —which
has become indispensable over a broaden-
ing field because of its advantages in
welding non-ferrous metals. The big
British Oxygen Co. (London), which
recently linked up with a German firm,
holds a substantial interest in the busi-
ness, and has been a pillar of strength
technically and financially.
On the trading side the policy has
been to follow the market by setting up
factories as demand warranted at
various centres throughout the Common-
wealth, and on the financial side the div.
has been kept moderate in relation to
earnings, leaving large sums to plough
back into the business and assist its
growth, which, of course, will ultimately
react to the benefit of shareholders.
Production and sales have risen with
almost uninterrupted trend since the war,
keeping more-or-less in step with the
growth of activity in steel-production and
in the heavy and light engineering trades,
electrical-equipment manufacture, the
motor industry, the railways and vehicle
repair-shops, etc. One of the manage-
ment’s big problems is distribution, which
mainly follows the British and Continental
pattern. Oxygen is supplied in gaseous
form in cylinders, in liquid form in tanks,
or is reticulated from plant erected near
sources of heavy demand.
Last term the tempo of business acti-
vity quickened, new oxygen and other
plant came into operation, and more
electrodes and welding-equipment, which
are in demand wherever metals are fabri-
cated, were sold. Production and sales
reached new peaks, the gains therefrom
more than offset the rise in wage-rates
and other operating costs, and selling-
prices were again reduced; all of which
is as it should be under existing condi-
tions.
After allowing a generous £420,583 (up
£33,470) for depreciation and £529,790
(up £32,719) for taxation, file gain in
net earnings was £24,958:
Pasib» axd Subsidiaries.
_ To Re- Re-
oept.. Profit. serves, serves.*
£ p.e. £ £ £
1951 .. 239,939 8 = 204,814 35,125 452,879
Unexplained addition, £9435 .. 462,314
1952 .. 445,885 8 = 240,000 205,885 668,199
Unexplained addition. £6955 .. 674,154
3 953 .. 575,701 8 = 240,C00 335,701 1,009,855
Unexplained addition, £13,403 .. 1,023,258
Tax refund, £936 1,024,194
1954 .. 834,535 10 = 300,000 534,535 1,558,729
Tax refund, £lBl .. .. ..1,558,910
From tax reserve, £13,461 .. ..1,572,371
Unexplained addition, £21,324 ..1,593,695
1956 . . 869,483 10 = 300,000 559,483 2,153,178
* Includes special reserve for depreciation (now
£276,420). f Includes 5 p.c. on bonus scrip
issued Oct., 1950.
The £859,483 of profit—it leaves out of
the reckoning £13,642 transferred from
tax reserve, etc., and £21,324 tossed from
somewhere into special depreciation
reserve—was 28.6 p.c. on capital as
against 27.8, 19.1, 14.8 and 9.5 p.c. back
to 1951, when £486,105 of bonus-scrip
was issued. Last term’s 10 p.c. div. was
thus nearly three times covered. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was 16.6 p.c.,
which suggests, among other filings, that
assets are well worth their book-value.
Vigorous expansion and healthy
finances are features of the balance-sheet
structure:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £3,000,006 £3,000,000 £3,000,060
Reserves .. .. 1,009,855 1,558,729 2,153,178
Unsecured notes.. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Creditors . . .. 446,454 576,653 841,116
Owing group cos. 22,389 178,395 100,318
Special tax reserve 150,593 137,133 123,672
Tax provision .. 579,043 655,419 683,882
Final div. .. 135,000 165,000 165,000
£6,343,334 £7,271,329 £8,067,166
Freeholds .. 1,188,193 1,285,379 1,484,740
Plant . , .. 1,976,834 2,466,822 2,818,842
Investments ~ 36,624 36,624 36,624
Stocks .. .. 1,479,415 1,710,372 2,253,901
Debtors .. .. 872,854 1,058,001 1,144,306
Cash, bonds .. 789,414 714,131 328,753
£6,343,334 £7,271,329 £8,067,166
To meet net additions of £199,361 to
freeholds, £352,020 to plant, £543,529 to
stocks and £86,305 to book-debts, the co.
drew upon cash, etc., for £385,378 and
increased the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £264,463. The improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,812,972) was £46,168, despite the out-
lay on fixed assets, to which further
substantial additions are to be made
during the current term. Subject to the
level of industrial activity, earnings
should benefit as new equipment comes
into production.
United Insurance Co., Ltd.
TN old and soundly-established insur-
ance offices the dividend policy is
governed more-or-less by the net return
from investments. For this and other
reasons the f.-p. £1 shares in the 93-year-
old United—which is one of the front-
rank Australian fire, marine and accident
offices —have much to recommend them
as a holding proposition.
Certainly the immediate return
at 575. is' no more than 4.3 p.c.
on a 12£ p.c. div. basis. But at
last term’s rate of expansion the co.’s
net earnings from interest, dividends,
rents, etc. (£67,227, up £13,826) will
exceed 15 p.c. cm the present £700,000 of
capital three years hence, thus enhancing
prospects of a lift in the dividend-rate.
Also the board has recently adopted a
more vigorous policy of expansion, from
which underwriting results will not re-
ceive full benefits for a few years yet.
As the underwriting surplus, or most of
it, accumulates from year to year, the
investment portfolio and returns there-
from can be expected to steadily expand.
To keep in step with competition and
provide the additional insurance needed
by an expanding economy, the co. is
widening the spread of its net in both
Australia and New Zealand (where the
bulk of the business is written) and
overseas. A substantial income has been
developed in the London marine- and
fire-reinsurance markets, which were re-
entered in 1948 and 1952 respectively,
and a Hong Kong agency was set up in
1951. Last term activities were extended
to South Africa, India and New Guinea,
and a branch is presently to be opened in
Fiji. A year ago about 32 p.c. of the
profit was won from overseas sources.
To help finance capital outlay on new
branches, etc., and further strengthen
the already strong protection for policy-
holders, shareholders put up £200,000 of
fresh capital at par, two for five, in June
last, lifting paid capital to £700,000.
Meanwhile, the uncalled balance of £5
on the old £lO shares was extinguished,
and the scrip was split into £1 units,
giving it a wider and more active market.
Over the last five years net premium
income has more than doubled, the
growth last term being £221,046. And
the risks are well-balanced, the propor-
tion of fire, marine and accident to total
premiums being 44.5 p.c., 15.4 p.c. and
40.1 p.c. respectively:— )
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1950.. 677 420,570 515,850 38.2 p.c. 46.9 p.c.
1951.. 003 532,209 650,910 39.9 „ 48.8 „
1952.. 716,716 778,876 42.4 „ 46.1 „
1953.. 331 759,014 902,235 41.8 „ 49.7 „
1954.. 204.046 1,007,173 908,392 45.7 „ 41.2 „
1955.. 1,057,257 1,134,357 43.6 „ 46.8 „
Another pleading feature is the drop of
425. p.c. on last term’s loss-rate. Though
the expense-rate took a leap of £5 12s.
p.c., due mainly to the cost of setting-up
new branches, etc., it was still more than
1 p.c. below average for the four years to
1953. The net underwriting surplus was
£120,060 (down £12,135), or 17.5 p.c. on
capital. That was after sending £113,418
(down £42,868) to the reserve for unex-
pired risks, making it £1,064,521, equal
to 44 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 40 p.c. is usually considered
adequate.
Including the net return from invest-
ments, the profit from all sources avail-
able for distribution was £187,287 (up
£1691);
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
1952 93,789 12* p.c. = 62,500 1 - 2g9 -„„ 41 „
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ) ZI,ZBS 1,291,413
To unexpired risks, £50,289 .. 1,841,701
1953. .146,275 12* p.c. = 62,500 1 »„
To staff fund, £lO,OOO. . \ 78,775 1,416,476
To unexpired risks, £156,286 .. 1,571,762
1954 .. 185,596 15 p.c. = 75,000 ) cog 1672 358
To staff fund, £lO,OOO f 100.590 1,672,308
To unexpired risks, £113,418 .. 1,785,776
1965.. 187,287 12* p.c. = 75,000 112,287 1,898,063
•Includes reserve unexpired risks, £1,064,521 at
30/9/’55.
The £187,287 was 27.7 p.c. on the
£700,000 of capital—l7.s p.c. from under-
writing and 9.6 p.c. from investments.
The 2\ p.c. bonus sent out with the
p.c. div. in 1954 was not repeated, money
being wanted to help finance expansion.
The protection for policyholders and
shareholders is in this form:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £500,000 £700,000
Reserves .. .. 1,415,476 1,672,358 1,898,063
Provision for claims 193,365 324,671 304,083
Creditors* .. 432,509 347,554 432,692
Final divs., etc. .. 41,250 ’ 53,750 43,750
£2,582,600 £2,898,333 £3,378,588
Freehold, etc. .. 550,971 717,869 1,004,236
Shares subsidiary 39,758 39,768
Govt, securities)
etc 98,961 101,668 174,618
Shares, debentures 119,758 80,000 82,988
Mortgages .. 563,656 651,274 619,330
Cash, bonds, debtors 1,249,254 1,407,764 1,457,658
£2,582,600 £2,898,333 £3,378,588
* Includes provision for taxation.
The £200,000 of new share-capital, and
more besides, went into freeholds, etc.
(up £286,367). With the addition pf
£72,950 to Government securities, etc.,
and £68,056 to mortgages, it all augurs
well for the return from investments.
Humes, Ltd.
TO help finance large new contracts
and other work in hand (total about
£5,000,000), as well as reduce the debt
to the bank following the credit-squeeze,
the co. is on the market with £1,000,000
of p.c. £lOO registered unsecured
notes, with currencies of six or ten years
at the applicant’s option. The issue has
been underwritten by H. Byron Moore,
Day and Joumeau at a commission of
2j p.c., and the brokers are entitled to
firm allotment of £250,000, the remaining
£750,000 being available for public sub-
scription, with prior rights as to £200,000
to Humes shareholders.
The earnings- and net asset-cover for
the notes are both strong. The interest
charge (£65,000 p.a.) was over 10 times
covered by last term’s group profit, and
net tangibles at June 30 last were equal
to £462-odd per £lOO note. Also, since
the latest group profit was equal to over
15 p.c. on shareholders’ funds, the new
money should be very helpful to the ords.,
as well as strengthen the co.’s competi-
tive position.
The group now consists of parent co.,
Humes, Ltd., which operates throughout
Australia, Hume Industries (Far East),
Singapore and Malaya, and Hume Indus-
tries (N.Z.), Ltd., in New Zealand.
Principal products are centrifugally-
spun reinforced-concrete and con-
crete-lined-steel pipes for water-
supply, culvert and sewerage work,
to which have been recently added
pre-stressed concrete beams, etc., and
structural-steel. Earnings thus depend
largely upon Government and public-
authority spending.
Since 1950 shareholders have reaped
good harvests, which compensated for
earlier disappointments. The ord. div.,
which averaged 4.8 p.c. for the decade to
mid-1948, was lifted from 8 p.c. in 1949
to 10 p.c. for the next three years and
to 17j p.c. for the three years to June 30,
1955. And over the last six years distri-
butions have been sweetened with
£405,920 of bonus-scrip and,new share-
issues at par totalling £727,580. Paid
capital thus became £2,037,500 in 112,500
A and 250,000 B prefs., both 1\ p.c.
cumulative, and 1,675,000 ords.
Last term an all-round increase in
turnover cushioned the effects of rising
costs, and combined net earnings stepped-
up by £79,998. That was after allowing
£285,154 (up £39,707) for depreciation
and £475,653 (up £95,330) for taxation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
<— Dividends
Pref. t Ord. Tfo Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7* p.c. p.c. serves, serves.f
& & £,£,&
1952. .527,106 27,188 10 1&7.500 332,418 1,379,509
Written off, £14,277 1,365,232
Unexplained decrease, £177,466 .. 1,187,766
Reduction intangibles, £291,499 ..1,479,265
Prom tax reserve, £6388 .. .. 1,485,653
1953. .711,175 27,188 17* 293,125 390,862 1,876,515
Written off, £18,600 1,857,915
Added intangibles, £3403 .. .. 1,854,512
Unexplained reduction, £26,064 .. 1,828,448
1954.. 625,235 27,188 17* 293,125 304,922 2,133,370
Written off, £18,600 2,114,770
Reduction intangibles, £3165 ..2,117,985
Profit sale assets, etc., £87,425 .. 2,205,360
1955. .705,233 27,188 17* 293,125 384,920 2,590,280
t After deducting intangibles, etc., now £17,418.
* After deducting outside interests.
The £705,233 of profit was enough to pay
the pref. divs. and show a lush 40.4 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 35.7, 40.8,
29.8, 25.5 and 40 p.c. back to 1950. That
leaves out of the figuring a capital profit
of £87,425 on sale of assets and £18,600
written-off an asbestos deposit in New
Zealand.
Trading results of individual members
of the group compare as follows:
Paid f Profit \
Capital. 1954. 1955.
£> £/ ' £
Humes, Ltd 2,037,500* 442,635 451,854
Hume Industries (P.E.) 950,000 f 174,515 194,646
Hume Industries (N.Z.) 650,000 J 40,470 60,044
* Includes £362,500 7$ p.c. prefs. f Includes £250,000
6 p.c. participating prefs. $ Includes £250,000 5 p.c.
prefs.
Since profits include amounts due to out-
side interests, the total differs from the
consolidated profit shown in the first
table. The improvement in the Singapore


INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm o£ Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
■
***?#!•
The connoisseur's wordj
for smooth, mellow
perfection
I
!
w
I®
$
S£>SP/TA
S£o tt
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
TST
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEARS
TST.47.M
cs-
\v
/N
New business
1951 —£101,000,000
1952 £108,000,000
1953 -£118,000,000'
1954-£124,000,000
1955
£143,000,000
A NEW RECORD FOR BOTH THE ORDINARY
AND INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENTS
AMP
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney
General Manager: M. C. Buttfield
Principal Board: Cecil H. Hoskins, Chairman.
w. A. Maclcay, Deputy Chairman.
S. G. Rowe.
The Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.
Samuel Hordern.
G. Gordon Russell.
C. G. Crane.
Manager lor New South Wales: F. E. Stahl
Fverv member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £320,000,000
Shich the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit of the members.
co.’s latest figure (for the
calendar year, 1954) was wholly
on account of dividends re-
ceived from an associate co.,
Rheem-H,ume (Far East), Ltd.,
which turns out steel-drum con-
tainers, etc. Results for 1955
are expected to approximate
the 1954 figure. Since Singa-
pore is soon expected to pass
from colonial to self-govern-
ing status, net earnings of this
offshoot might be affected, for a
while at any rate, by political
teething-troubles in its area.
Expansion is the keynote of
balance-sheet figures:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £2,037,500 £2,037,500
Reserves .. .. 2,133,370 2,690,280
Outside interest .. 542,159 642,159
Overdraft .. 51,007 951,920
Creditors 1. 1 f 1,320,899
Tax provision 1,644,299 j 528,065
Suspense account] l 50,614
Final div. .. 189,469 168,532
Total .. £6,597,804 £8,189,969
Freehold .. .. 364,731 368,986
Buildings .. .. 1,147,108 1,311,883
Plant .. .. 1,202,310 1,494,535
Asbestos deposits.. 163,681 148,082
Shares other cos... 62,901 105,612
Stocks .. . . 2,057,683 2,890,936
Debtors .. .. 1,409,424 1,674,225
Cash, etc... .. 149,658 178,744
War claims .. 60,308 16,966
Total .. £6,597,804 £8,189,969
During the year £461,255 net
was added to the book-value of
fixed assets, £833,253 to stock
and £264,801 to debtors’ bal-
ances. To help meet the outlay
the overdraft was increased by
£900,913 and the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, etc., by
£255,279. The contraction in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,740,841) was only £41,457.
Work on a large new head-
quarters building at the corner
of William- and Little Bourke-
streets, Melbourne, is scheduled
to begin about mid-1956. The
bulk of the cost (amount not
mentioned) is to be financed on
mortgage, thus pushing prospects
of a new share-issue into the
background for the present, at
any rate.
Work in hand is sufficient to
ensure a satisfactory showing for
the current term, and the margin
between net earnings and distri-
butions is wide. The market
therefore prices the f.-p. £1 ords.
at 565. (565. 6d. a year ago) to
return 6.2 p.c. on a 17£ p.c.
div. basis. The p.c. A and
B prefs. at 235. each yield 6.5
p.c. Net tangible cover is
£4l 2s. 7d. A, £lB Is. 2d. B and
50s. lid. ords.
Waugh and Josephson, Ltd.
TT was in 1946 that the
American friend of this now-
-75-year-old organisation pre-
vailed upon the management to
vacate the old field —production
of boilers and butter-factory and
dairyfarm equipment and
devote its attention entirely to the
distribution of tractors, loaders,
graders and other farm- and
earthmoving-equipment, etc. And
shareholders have no reason to
regret the change.
The co. holds the N. S. Wales
agencies for the following
American organisations: Cater-
pillar Tractors Co., Traction Co.,
Athley Products Corp., and the
Deer Co., all well-known names
in the tractor, earthmoving- and
farm-equipment fields. To help
sidestep the effects of import-
restrictions and the dollar prob-
lem, the Caterpillar Co. has set
up an Australian offshoot, which
has just erected a large factory
at Essendon (Vic.) to look after
assembly and production and
supply of parts, and so hasten
deliveries and hold the market.
Stimulated by a long run of
good to fair seasons and prices,
by growing recognition of the
value of mechanisation in com-
bating growth in farm costs, by
public expenditure on works, and
by servicing and sales of parts,
turnover has stepped along in
fine style. Net earnings have
responded and those on the
register have joined in the pros-
perity. Over the last six years
the div. has climbed from 10 p.c.
to \l\ p.c., the average being
14.1 p.c., sweetened with two lots
of bonus-scrip totalling £90,000
and a cash-issue of 120,000 £1
shares at 10s. premium.
Paid capital thus advanced
from £300,000 to £510,000, and
reserves shot up from £253,772
to £1,012,765, aided by £44,681
from revaluation of assets,
£60,000 of share-premiums and
£86,992 of profit from sales of
assets, etc., following disposal of
the co.’s Queensland business to
Hastings Deering (Q.) Pty. in
1953. In the same year the co.
set up a subsidiary, W. & J.
Investments Pty., to handle
equipment sold on a hire-pur-
chase basis. In 1954 this offshoot
doubled its paid capital, making
it £200,000, all of which, and
more besides, has been kept
fully-employed since, to the
benefit of net earnings, which,
incidentally, are far less profit-
able in this class of business than
in the consumer-goods field.
Meanwhile four country
branches and service workshops
have been established, another
has been opened since the close
of last accounts, and a sixth is
presently to be set up. Despite
keen competition, turnover in-
creased last term, and the growth
more than offset the rise in wage-
rates and other costs. After
allowing £21,839 (up £8778) for
depreciation and something for
taxation, etc., net earnings
increased by £17,851:
Parent Co.
June, Profit. Y —Dividends—Reserves.
£ - £ £
1950. .125,265 10 p.c. =30,000 253,772
Revaluation assets, £44,681. 298,453
Share premiums, £60,000 .. 358,453
Unexpl’d addition, £24,013 382,466
Reserve capitalised, £60,000 322,466
1951. .156,975 124 p.c. =43,125 *36,316
Unexpl’d addition, £10,977. 447,293
1952. 124 p.c. =60,000 675,661
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Less on consolidation, £36.. 675,625
Profit sale assets, etc., £86,992 662,617
1953. .236,927 15 p.c. =72,000 827,544
Reserves capitalised, £30,000. 797,544
To special provision, £lO,OOO 787,544
Unexp’d addition, £6754 .. 794,298
1954. .189,558 174 p.c. =89,250 =
1955. .207,409 174 „ ~89,250 1,012,765
The £207,409 of profit was a
juicy 40.6 p.c. on average capital
as against 37.1, 49.3, 39.2, 45.5
and 41.7 p.c. back to 1950. The
fatness of these ratios owes much
to the size of reserves. On capital
and reserves combined the
year’s profit was 13.6 p.c. The
171 P-c. div. was more than twice
covered.
The drop in profit in 1954
resulted partly from sale of
the Queensland business in the
previous term, but mostly from
more difficult trading following
curtailment of public spending
and entry of some Government-
owned earthmoving equipment,
etc., into the disposals field.
Finances are comfortable. The
ratio of more-or-less liquids to
total outside liabilities (including
tax-provision) was 3.3 to 1 at
June 30 last as against 2.1 to 1
a year earlier:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £510,000 £510,000
Reserves .. . • 894,606 1,012,760
Long-term liability 40,000 40,000
Creditors, etc. .. 782,170 280,998
Special provision.. 10,000
Tax provision .. 120,699 133,238
Final div. .. 57,375 57,370
£2,414,850 £2,044,376
Freehold .. .. 188,113 203,414
Plant .. .. 72,154 105,544
Stock, etc. .. 1,500,239 1,199,673
Debtors .. •• 352,305 491,570
Cash, bonds .. 302,039 44,175
£2,414,850 £2,044,376
During the year £501,172 was
slashed off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., stock
(down £300,566) and the holding
of cash and bonds (down
£257,864) being reduced for the
purpose. The growth of £139,265
in debtors’ balances was largely
on account of hire-purchase
business.
Trade has held well since
the close of accounts, but credit-
restriction and the curbing of
public expenditure on works,
etc., will tend to retard the
growth of turnover.
During 1955 the price of the
co.’s f.-p. £1 shares fluctuated
between 61s. and 525. 6d. At
the current figure of 545. the
return is 6.5 p.c. on a 17.5 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is
595. 6d.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd.
Behind the spectacular rise in
price of this co.’s f.-p. 10s.
shares, which rocketed from
16s. 6d. in June last to 68s. 6d.
on* January 10, 1956, and eased
to 63§. two days later, lies a
strengthening of demand and
rise in price for rutile and zircon
concentrates, expansion of the
co.’s plant-capacity, and exten-
sion of its interests by purchase
of a 50 p.c. holding in the
recently - formed Titanium
Corporation of Australia Pty.,
which is erecting a plant to treat
beach-sands near Tewantin, about
100 miles north of Brisbane.
The recent and proposed
future expansion of titanium
metal production—its toughness
and high melting-point has
placed the metal in very strong
demand for use as an alloy —is
the prime factor in the strength-
ening of the rutile market. While
this has brightened the outlook
for Australian beach-sands pro-
ducers, it has also stimulated ex-
ploration of coastal sands over-
seas, especially in Mexico and
South and East Africa, which
might soon provide competition
on established markets. How-
ever, if proposed plans for
expansion of production of the
metal in the U.S., the U.K. and
Germany live up to schedule,
rutile concentrates are likely to
remain in short supply for some
time. In 1954 about 87 p.c. of
the world’s rutile concentrates
were produced in Australia.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
First to be honored by a civic recep-
tion at the Town Hall in 1956 was
famous Australian actress Judith Ander-
son, welcomed on the occasion by Lord
Mayor Sir Frank Selleck.
Miss Anderson, who was hatless,
looked attractive in a sheath-frock of
heavy white linen, over which she wore
a coat of earth-brown faille, which
featured a wide shawl-collar. Lady
Selleck topped her midnight-blue floral-
printed chiffon frock with a black
picture-hat.
On the dais with the guest-of-honor
was Sir John Latham, president of the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust. Guests
included Sir Lewis Casson and son and
daughter-in-law Mr. and Mrs. John
Casson (Dame Sybil Thorndike was still
away at the seaside), Sir Archie Michaelis
and Lady Michaelis, Lady Disney and
daughter-in-law Mrs. Alec Hay, Mr.
Jack Wedgwood and his wife, Senator
Ivy Wedgwood, Mrs. A. G. Warner,
Dame Mary Daly, Cr. and Mrs. Tony
Luxton, Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs.
Norman Robinson, Mr.,and Mrs. A. T.
Smithers, the Len Doolings, the Town
Clerk and Mrs. Rogan, Sir Robert and
Lady Knox, Lady Connolly, Mr. Brett
Randall and son Peter, and Irene
Mitchell.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Slim flew from Canberra to
Laverton, where she was met by Sir Peter
McCallum, chairman of the Australian
Red Cross (of which Lady Slim is presi-
dent), Mrs. G. C. Scantlebury (vice-chair-
man) and Mr. A. G. Brown (national
commissioner). From Laverton the
party motored to Geelong, where Lady
Slim was guest for luncheon of the local
Red Cross branch, then to Point Lons-
dale, where the delegates of the Interna-
tional Junior Red Cross were in con-
ference. Colorfully dressed delegates
from 14 countries presented flags before
Lady Slim, who then addressed them and
officially closed the conference.
Lady "Slim received many gifts from
nationals of various countries, tokens of
her visit to the first study-centre of its
kind held in the Southern Hemisphere.
Two other guests flew from Sydney for
the function —Consul-General for Korea
Mr. Lincoln Hoon Kim and Mrs. Kim.
They welcomed their delegate, Mrs. Yun
Ho Kong, assistant director of the Korean
Junior Red Cross.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lovely flower-arrangements graced the
Toorak home of Mrs. W. B. Faulkner
when she gave a buffet-luncheon party to
welcome home several of her friends who
have been overseas. The hostess wore
a white pure-silk frock patterned in a
tiny white check. Her guests-of-honor
were Mrs. E. A. Watts (whose choice was
a grey alpaca suit with a light-grey straw
hat finished with matching ospreys), Mrs.
Les Sangster (wearing a frock of
Wedgwood-blue linen embroidered with
narrow white braid), Mrs. W. Plowright
(her London-tan linen frock cut on
tailored lines) and her daughter Lorelle.
Assisting Mrs. Faulkner was her sister,
Mary Davies, who chose a dark-leaf-
green sleeveless silk frock.
Among the guests were Mrs. W. W.
Killough, wearing a jacket-suit of pale-
pink lightweight wool faintly patterned
in. black, and a small white hat; Mrs.
Norman Strange, whose dark-grey
shantung frock spotted in white was worn
with a platter-hat of mauve straw
trimmed with tiny matching flowers;
Mrsi Frank Lee, in a green pure-silk
frock patterned in darker green leaves
and worn with a small white hat; Mrs.
Doug Farndon, her choice a charcoal
silk-shantung frock and a corn-gold
summer-felt cloche ; and Mrs. J. Carlson,
whose ensemble was pale-beige.
* ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Tolley have issued
invitations for the marriage of their only
daughter, Jennifer Jane, with John Philip
Ward; It will take place on February 15
at the Littlejohn Chapel, Scotch College,
and the reception will be held at the
Venetian Court, Hotel Australia.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Silver Jubilee Year of the Little
Theatre opened at the Arrow Theatre
with Elizabeth Addyman’s “The Secret
Tent.” This was the Australian premiere
of the pjay, and was produced by George
Fairfax, recently returned from England.
The play includes a murder and the dis-
appearance of a wife whose unfortunate
background she had hidden from her
husband. At the premiere were Sir
Archie d Lad M £ haelis> Mrs . D . j.
Ross an<J her y d hter Julie , olive
Walter (who is now in “Sailor Beware”
a ' the Comedy), John and Patricia Cas-
son M r. and M rs. Robert Money, Mrs.
Geoffrey Tebbutt, Mr. and Mrs. Derek
Goodall, Mr. and Mrs. W. McKechnie,
Madeline Henderson, Sue Dureau and
hlary Henderson
_ . , , , ~
Colombo-bound are Mrs. Gladys Myer
and her daughter Mrs. Simon Warrender,
tbe Murray Smiths and their daughter
Barb Mrs. ' Hymie Silk with her
daughters Dinah Ralph and Ruth Sluice
an / their chi i dre n, and Thelma Pren-
tice Mrs. Constance Day is at Portsea
with her son Neville and daughter
Dea where also Dr. and Mrs. T.
Crankshaw and their children are holi-
dayjng Mrs. Dick Noone and daughter
Ann are at Mt Martha, and guests with
are Mrs. Bill Winter-Irving and her
f am ily do wn from their Western Dis-
t • t
P
Adrienne Maxwell, of Toorak, will
marry well-known English actor Bill
Hodge next Saturday, January 21, at the
Toorak Presbyterian Church, and after-
wards Dr. and Mrs. Murray Maxwell
will give a reception at their Toorak
home. Adrienne has always played an
active part in the work of the Young
Contingent of the Victoria League in
Victoria, but will give up this work for a
time, for she and her husband will go to
England for 18 months, sailing in Or cades
on February 13. There are to be no pre-
wedding parties, but several have been
planned to farewell the newlyweds.
Marjorie Tatnall and Doris Bell are
hostesses planning one party. Marjorie
will be Adrienne’s only bridesmaid.
Daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
W. A. H. Maxwell, of Toorak, Adrienne
has a farm at Dandenong and a station-
property at Corow a ( N.S.W. ).
An annual event is the delightful lun-
cheon Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of
the V.A.T.C. chairman, gives for press-
women, latest occasion being at Caul-
field just before the first race on Saturday.
The guest-list included also the wife of
the Premier (Mrs. Henry Bolte) and wives
of committeemen and racing officials.
Mrs. Robinson wore a silk frock in pale-
grey printed in black with an undertone
of soft-pink; her small white hat had
tiny pink and white flowers clustered
around the brim. Mrs. Bolte’s choice was
a pale-beige linen frock patterned in a
faint black flower-design, worn with a
wide-brimmed black-straw hat. Mrs.
Kenneth McLean, wife of the vice-
chairman of the V.A.T.C., wore a white-
spotted navy silk frock and matching
jacket, with a tiny white-straw pillbox-hat.
Lady Clarke added to her simple frock
of pink-and-white-striped cotton a large
white chip-straw hat.
Mrs. A. G. Hunter’s frock of mist-
blue silk patterned in white was worn
with a white-straw platter-hat. Her
sister-in-law, Mrs. A. H. Dunstan, chose
dark-grey ripple-chiffon frock and a white
crochet-hat. Other guests at the lun-
cheon were Mrs. W. B. Faulkner, Mrs.
W. Rowell, Mrs. E. S. A. Bell, Mrs. D. W.
Reid, Mrs. Harry Way, Mrs. E. W.
Field, Mrs. Frank Dempsey and Mrs.
G. A. Davis.
SYDNEY
This is a rather happy time of the
year for Sydneysiders, relaxing at all
points north, south, west and a few feet
east of the city. Social activity in the
heart of the city, however, is more-or-less
at a standstill, the only event of the week
being the premiere of “Summer of the
17th Doll” at the Elizabethan Theatre.
This drew a gay and responsive audience,
and although* there were not so many
diamonds to be seen as in the midst of
“the season,” it was a bright and enjoy-
able night.
In the dress-circle were new-made
knight Sir Richard Boyer and Lady
Boyer, Dr. H. C. Coombs (whose re-
semblance to the actor-playwright Ray
Lawler was frequently commented upon)
and Mrs. Coombs, Mr. and Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere, Dr. and Mrs. C. ,M. Guiney
and Dr. and Mrs. Tom Bateman.
Theie was also a whole galaxy of
Sydney’s literary stars, including poet
Robert D. Fitz Gerald with Mrs. Fitz-
Gerald, Leslie and Coralie Rees, Rose-
mary Dobson, Kylie Tennant, Ray
Mathew, Mena Kashmiri Abdullah,
Dulcie Deamer and many others.
Maxine Callachor, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. E. D. Callachor, of Centen-
nial Park, has just announced her
engagement to solicitor Maxwell Knibbs.
Maxine, who is wearing a lovely diamond
solitaire ring, is making plans for a
wedding at the end of the year after she
has celebrated her coming-of-age.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
A letter received during the week from
a Sydney girl now living in the U.S. has
given such a clear picture of many
aspects of everyday fife there that some
of her observations are being passed on
to readers of this Letter. The writer,
Mrs. Harold Buck, married at the close
of the war, but it is only within the past
12 months that she has left Australia to
settle permanently in a town in
lowa with her husband and three young
children. Formerly Yvonne Ford, of
Hurlstone Park, Mrs. Buck observes with
a keen eye, and as a young wife and
mother, home-making on a budget, she
reports those things which are of interest
to most Australian women, but which are
seldom included in travel-books.
For instance, of food, she says: “Steak
and chicken are eaten quite frequently,
in this part of the country at least. Each
town has what they call a locker, which
is actually a butcher-shop with a big
freeze-room which must be kept at
naught-degrees or less. In this room
they have hundreds of individual lockers,
for which you pay 10 dollars per year
rent. Then you can buy in bulk at
cheaper rates. They charge 1 cent per
pound for cutting, wrapping and freez-
ing. Each person has her own key. We
bought a hindquarter of beef, which is
practically all steak, a lot of T-bones,
round-steak, sirloin, a few pot-roasts and
a few pounds of hamburger. I think we
had about 1201 b. in all. We got it for
43 cents a pound, cut, wrapped and
frozen.”
Further remarks on food include: “I
must admit I have been drinking coffee
quite a bit lately. At first I did change
about, coffee one week, tea the next, but
this coffee is wonderful and the tea ter-
rible, so I stick to coffee now.”
Also: “They have a salad here, made
of shredded-cabbage, mixed with a few
bananas and marshmallows. The mayon-
naise is thinned with cream or milk, and
sugar added and poured over the cabbage,
bananas and marshmallows. This is very
popular and goes with anything, but we
like it mainly with steak!”
She goes on to say : “They use herbs
and seasonings f extensively, and all the
most outlandish combinations imagin-
able at the one meal. But it tastes good!
Ice-cream is eaten a lot and is a reason-
able price. It is twice as good as ours
and made in the most fabulous assort-
ment of flavors. But I must say I have
not yet tasted a decent sausage! ”
Of television (soon to be part of
Sydney life), Mrs. Buck says: “I haven’t
worked out yet whether television is good
or bad. I made allowances when we first
got it, thinking we would get used to it
and pick out the programmes we wanted
to see and skip the others, but once it’s
on, it’s on! The only thing is I never
turn it on during the day. But now winter
is here they have ‘Coffee Cup Theatre,’
which is a series of one-hour movies or
plays from 11.30 a.m. to 3 p.m. on one
channel from Sioux City, and if I get my
work finished or feel like an hour’s relax-
ation I listen to one of those after lunch.
“Children’s time is from 4 p.m. to 6
p.m. and Disneyland at 7.30 every Tues-
day night for one hour. I let the kiddies
watch that as it is very good. Last week
they had ‘The Legend of Sleepy Hollow,’
and the week before they showed the
wild animals of the jungle and the habits
of the lions in a region where no one had
ever been before. Disneyland is very
educational for adults as well as children,
and if you pick the programmes and dis-
card the unsuitable ones for children
you can’t go far wrong.
“TV is not as kind as films. The film-
stars show up as they really are and some
of them give you quite a shock. Loretta
Young still looks youthful and lovely,
but most of the others use too much
make-up and show their age.”
On schools, her remarks are interesting:
“First-grade is taught reading by sight.
There is a lot of controversy about this,
the majority of people thinking that the
old way of learning by phonetics was the
best way. But I have changed my mind
about it lately. I visited school myself,
and watched for a while (they like you
to do that occasionally) and I learnt a
thing or two myself!
“Even in first-grade they have ‘telling-
time,’ which means they havjb to stand
up and tell about something that hap-
pened at home or on the way to or from
school. Needless to say, our little boy
has been asked to tell about Australia
and his trip over, and he is still telling.
This ‘telling-time’ goes right on through
high-school and college, only then it is
called ‘public-speaking,’ so you can see
they start them young.
“The high-schools go in quite exten-
sively for sports, and practically everyone
has something to do. The cheer-groups,
and cheer-leaders are the same as we see
in the films, with their gymnastics and
‘sloppy-joes’ with skirts or slacks. Each
school has a full band. We have 50 pieces
here and they turn out in full regalia for
every function, football-games, baseball,
basketball and such. It is a sight to
see!”
“The main difference I have noticed is
the treatment meted out by salesgirls.
To shop here is like being in Paradise.
Nothing is too much trouble. In fact
you have to be careful not to admire
some article aloud, for even though you
say you don’t want to buy it, they take
it down, no matter how well it is dis-
played, and let you have a closer look,
just to admire it. But you only have to
say ‘Just shopping around, thanks,’ and
you can look to your heart’s content
without being bothered by a salesgirl.
“The supermarkets are wonderful, but
everything is done-up so attractively that
you tend to spend more than you would
if you rang your order through (which
I have been doing these last few weeks
since I have worked my budget out). I
could never stick to my budget were I to
go to the supermarket all the time. All
the products are of a high grade, and you
can’t go far wrong with any brand.”
And finally about the weather: “Be-
fore Christmas we had temperatures of
12 degrees below zero on up to zero for
about a week, then over Christmas it
warmed up amazingly, so that we had
a high for the day of 45 degrees to 50
degrees for about four days. But our
brief respite is over. It snowed again
today with a temperature of 20 degrees
and a forecast of ‘much, much colder
and continued cold with snowstorms.’ ”
So Sydney with its January heat and
sunny skies has much to recommend it,
after all!


Effect all your Insurances witli
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types ot General Insurance
Directors:
sm VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE.
A. C. MAITLAND,
Managing Director.
N. E. MANIOiN.
Manager.
Branches and Agencies in ail States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Open-air Opera
The Sydney Opera Group, an
independent organisation
specialising in “intimate,” or
small-scale, shows, has since its
formation in 1953 brought to
Sydney some half-dozen works
in a form not previously seen in
Australia. Last year it toured
Victoria, playing in 40 towns,
for the Arts Council. It holds
that “intimate” opera is a practi-
cal way to keep alive the lyric
theatre, provide employment
and experience for artists, and
give audiences novel and
refreshing theatrical experience.
Last Saturday night it began
its second open-air season at
the School Theatre at Sydney
seaside Avalon, and provided a
delightful evening’s entertain-
ment, producer Alan Seymour
presenting “Opera in a Nut-
shell,” a humorous survey of
“intimate” opera from its
beginning to the present day,
alternating his racy commentary
with brief scenes from small
operas, with, after that, three
operettas.
First of the operettas was
Mozart’s “The Impresario,” in
which two rival prima donnas,
both determined to capture the
leading role in a new opera,
descend upon an unfortunate
impresario and try to out-sing
each other in his office.
The second, Gian-Carlo
Menotti’s “The Telephone,” has
to do with a scatterbrained
maid who spends her time in
chatter on the telephone, much
to the annoyance of her ardent
suitor.
Main attraction was Ermanno
Wolf-Ferrari’s “The Secret of
Susanna,” in which a pompous
“Unless this account is settled within seven days, your
Water-service will be disconnected without further notice.
young nobleman wrongly
suspects that his pert and youth-
ful wife is entertaining a
gentleman-friend during his
absences from his palatial home.
The rich and warm, con-
trolled singing of Ross Whatson
in the Wolf-Ferrari and Menotti
numbers was the highlight of
the evening. Robert Tasman-
Smith, a natural mime, acted as
well as he sang, and capable
support was given by Rae
Candy, Patricia Bonnefin,
Richard Linden, Keith Wright
and Jen Roberts.
George Humphrey and
Stephanie Rooke provided the
music and Colin Garland was
responsible, for the decor and
costumes. Further perform-
ances will be given at Avalon on
the evenings of January 20, 21,
27 and 28.
W. E. F.
“Of Mice and Men”
Steinbeck’s dramatic study of
the pathetic Lennie has already
been made available in Mel-
bourne in film, play and story,
but the Union Theatre Repertory
Co.’s presentation under Hana
Pravda’s direction at the Univer-
sity was as good as any, and in
the case of Noel Ferrier as
Lennie and George Pravda as
Candy the best ever.
Pravda is an extraordinarily
natural actor, with no trace of
any school of acting. Somehow
or other he makes you think of
the character he is acting and
not of Pravda, just as a good
painter makes you think of his
subject-matter and not of him or
his pigment.
Alan Hopgood was good as
George, Lennie’s mentor; Peter
Batey was sharp as the jealous
Curley; Leslie Gaskin was con-
ventionally the Eternal Female ,
Harold Blair, the aboriginal
tenor-turned-actor, was a rather
self-conscious negro. The rest
of the collection of down-and-
outers and no-hopers in the
agricultural valley in Southern
California were good of their
kind.
“The 17th Doll”
The abounding vitality of Ray
Lawler’s “Summer of the 17th
Doll,” brought out by equally
vital acting, carried the play to
as triumphant a success at the
Elizabethan Theatre Trusts
Newtown theatre in Sydney as it
had previously enjoyed at the
Union Theatre in Melbourne.
The packed first-night audience
was obviously with it all the way,
and, if the curtain hadn’t been
ruthlessly shut down on them
after about six calls, would
probably have kept applauding
till dawn . . . and that on a
night when the steamy summer
was at its most deadening.
If the success is maintained, as
surely it will be, it augurs very
well indeed for the future of
other Australian plays of com-
parable vigor; for if this play
can go over with a popular audi-
ence at a big city theatre there
seems to be no reason why, for
example, Ray Mathew’s “We
Find the Bunyip”—which should
never be judged by the exceed-
ingly amateurish production it
had at Sydney Independent-
should not be equally popular.
At least it deserves a better try-
out.
True, Mathew’s play has weak-
nesses, and not very much plot
about it; but “Summer of the
17th Doll” has weaknesses, too,
and its plot, if more direct in
impact than Mathew’s, is by no
means wholly satisfactory. What
both plays have is their humor,
their robustness, their moments
of depth and power, their distilla-
tion of Australian earth and
character.
Too much of Lawler’s play
consists of retrospective talk,
describing scenes that would be
much more effective if presented
in actuality. The long opening
scene, for instance, is all about
the great times which Lawler’s
canecutters have had during
previous years on their “lay-off”
with their girl-friends in Mel-
bourne : they could just as well,
without any interference with
the essential course of the plot,
have been shown in the la§t of
the good times.
Much of the subsequent talk,
again, is about the fighting and
feuding that has been going on
on the canefields during the year,
between the burly ganger and a
hefty young rival. Why not show
it? How much more of the feel-
ing of the Australian earth there
would have been if a scene
actually located on the canefields
had been worked in: the tall
green sugarcane, the fires, the
men black with ashes, the big
dangerous knives, the brawling.
Canecutting, as canecutting, is
really hardly present at all, even
in the retrospective talk, in this
canecutting play.
The play also needs, so it
seems to the present commen-
tator, more of a canecutting end-
ing: something wholly restricted
to the specific situations
developed in it. For, though it
must be a fact that canecutters,
like other men, grow middle-
aged and lose their punch and
their mistresses, and though that
quite legitimately becomes Ray
Lawler’s theme, the play seems
somehow to have drifted away
from the author’s original inten-
tions, from other possible solu-
tions to the problems suggested
in the course of the action.
Unless it is to be wild, extreme
and exalted like “Lear,” the
drift into age makes merely a
depressing theme; and in any
case Lawler’s two canecutters
seem still too young to go totter-
ing off, half hopefully, half
tragically, into the sunset at the
end. At the end of the second
act, when the mates fall out and
fight, it would have been possible
to make a rough and tough
tragedy of it, with the burly man
killing the short one, as O’Casey,
O’Neill or Steinbeck would prob-
ably have arranged it. Or the
burly fellow might plausibly have
switched it into comedy by
marrying his girl-friend and
taking her up to the canefields
with him. Or altering the whole
present course of the action but
in a direction very strongly sug-
gested by the immanent possi-
bilities, the amorous little
Barney’s former girl-friend, the
absent Nancy, might have come
back into the story to renew
relations. Even, for comedy, the
mothers of Barney’s illegitimate
offspring “in three States”
might have turned-up to claim
him.
But however differently it
might have been developed, the
play has ample life to entertain,
to move and to satisfy as it is.
The dialogue is richly Australian
without being forced, so taut and
rhythmical that this commen-
tator thought in the opening
scene that it was in verse ; as
perhaps, simply because it is in
natural speech-rhythms, it is
in a completely unpretentious
way. The humor is lively and
Rabelaisian all the way through,
with an outstanding piece oi
comedy-writing when Barney
makes his long speech explaining
why he can’t marry the two girls
he has misled in his home-town:
because he happens to have mis-
led them simultaneously. The
drama, whether of the betrayals
of mateship or the barmaid’s
longing for past happiness, is
always powerful and, if some-
times sentimental, often genuinely
moving.
And as for the acting—one
really does not know which piece
of comedy or drama to single
out when practically every
moment of it is of so high a
standard. But, amidst the delight-
ful performances of Ray Lawler
himself, Lloyd Berrell, June
Jago, Ethel Gabriel, Fenella
Maguire and John Llewellyn, a
critic who has endured much
from similar roles in the theatre
must be allowed especially to
thank Madge Ryan for not
making the unwilling girl-fnend
repulsive, but, on the contrary,
charming; and John Sumner
and Anne Fraser, similarly, for
making a set that could have
been drab at once convincing
and attractive.
Artbursts
Slums and Roses
A slummy look pervades
most of the paintings in a mixed
exhibition at David Jones’,
Sydney —born, no doubt, out of
Europe’s, and especially
France’s, decay into slummy
politics and slummy art. In
Eric Smith’s fish, Judy Cassab’s
flowerpiece and Francis Lym-
burner’s collapsible “Back of a
Model” there is exactly the same
slummy mood and technique
that there is in actual paintings
of slums. A certain decrepit
force is in all these paintings,
but this commentator much pre-
fers the works that make a de-
cisive escape into clearer Aus-
tralian air: such as John Pass-
more’s “Newcastle Beach,
George Duncan’s Berrima land-
scapes and George Pennyfather s
delightfully fresh “June Roses.’
Curiosities include two very
minor Dobell sketches; a pleas-
ant, early and strangely sub-
dued lake- or river-landscape by
Sidney Nolan; and an excel-
lent Irish landscape by L. M.
Hamilton.
Talkies
“Lucy Gallant” (Sydney
Prince Edward): A slow-moving
but pleasantly-presented vari-
ation on that favorite theme of
script-writers the irresistible
lover who believes that woman’s
place is in the home and the
immovable girl who has a yen
for big business and wants to
do her chores from a swivel-
chair. She takes the lead by
making a huge success of a top-
fashion business, but he, until
then a farmer in a modest way,
finds a lake of black gold way
down under the sods the
setting is an oil-boom Texan
town.
The girl naturally gets into a
temporary financial spot, and
who pulls her out of it—surrepti-
tiously, of course but the
tycoon in gas? She’s mad at
him when she finds out, but it’s
really only a sham and gratitude
soon has ’em on the way to the
altar. Jane Wyman and Charlton
Heston handle the main roles
with ease, and are backed-up
with some solid character-work
from Claire Trevor, Thelma
Ritter and William Demarest.
“Doctor at Sea” (Sydney
State): A worthy successor to
“Doctor in the House,” with
/Esculapian humor tossing
merrily between the decks of a
cargo-steamer under the com-
mand of an atribilious skipper.
The salt is none other than John
Robertson Justice, who was the
booming, bearded surgeon, Sir
Lancelot, in the earlier Robert
Gordon film, and he uses the
same richly sonorous organ and
clipped accents here in forthright
declamation of his strong
misogynism. When a brace of
females are foisted on him €s
passengers, one of them the
marriage-determined daughter of
the line’s chairman of directors,
his opinions—and the expression
of them undergo a marked
change, though not his temper
towards his officers.
Dirk Bogarde is the young
medico on his first incumbency
afloat, and Brigitte Bertot the
charming French lass who, as
a passenger and confidant, sets
the doc.’s pulse racing.


We took a Qlove
By
B.Q. Ket
“ ’Twas pleasant in the glowing
morn amidst the gleaming
grass
To wander as we’d wandered
many a mile,
To blow the cool tobacco cloud
and watch the white wreath
pass. ... ”
THE words of Gordon’s
poem were not altogether
appropriate, but the
metre seemed to fit in
with the steady rhythm as I
pushed the pedals round and
round and round.
iWe hadn’t “wandered” many
a mile; we had pushed a few
miles, with many a mile to go,
but we had an objective, and we
knew where we were going ; at
least, I hoped we did. The morn-
ing was not “glowing,” either—
as yet; it was still too early. I
could see the fog on the back of
Stan’s shiny blue-serge coat,
thick, like tiny splinters of frost,
and it was just as thick on the
lapels of my own coat.
Nor were we blowing cool
tobacco-clouds. I- didn’t smoke.
Never had—if “jigger,” that por-
ous root which schoolboys pull
out of banks of creeks and
smoke with a great pretence of
enjoyment, could be excluded.
And Stan didn’t smoke when he
was in training, and he was in
training nearly always.
I didn’t mention poetic
rhythm to Stan. He wasn’t one
for poetry. Once he had known
a piece of poetry, so he had told
us one night soon after he
started going out with my sister.
He had learnt it because a new
teacher was very keen on poetry
and had told the class he ex-
pected every pupil to be able to
recite a poem by next Thursday.
Thursday came and with it Stan’s
turn to stand up and recite be-
fore the class. He commenced
manfully:
Under the spreading chestnut-
tree the village smithy stands
At that point four boys in the
class giggled.
Stan said no more. The
teacher prompted, encouraged,
gently requested, ordered, threat-
ened, and finally took the cane
down from the press. Stan took
the fourer without a flinch,
saved it up, and at recess-time,
behind the outhouse provided by
a thoughtful Department of
Education as a screen for such
affairs of honor, took it out of
the hide of two of the boys who
had laughed. He stalked the
other two for a month before the
affront was wiped-out in blood.
From then on he cheerfully
bought immunity from saying
poetry with four cuts every
Thursday. But nobody laughed.
WHITE, filmy vapor was rising
"" off the vast expanse of
Prospect Dam as we pedalled
along the Great Western Road.
“Next turn on the right,” Stan
turned to call back to me.
I nodded and followed.
On, on. Round and round, the
pedals; round and round the
wheels.
We coasted down the grade of
a gravelled road and pedalled
abreast along the flat stretch.
“Y’know, when we’re about
fifty, we’ll look back on this and
we’ll say: ‘Remember the day
’way back in the depression
when we rode the bikes all the
way to Landham to try and
get a few bob?’ ”
I laughed. At twenty-two
years of age the idea of ever
being “about fifty” seems ridi-
culously funny. I was still
chuckling over the joke when
the railway-crossing stopped us.
It was only a momentary check.
Beside the big gate was a small
one for pedestrians; by swinging
the bikes over our heads we
were able to pass through and
cross the fine. Stan was just
putting his down when —-—
“G’day.,. Stan. How y’ goin?”
There was a surprised note in
the speaker’s voice. He was a
big, heavy-shouldered man in his
thirties; dark-visaged and with
scarred, dropped eyebrows.
“Hull- o, Ted. Didn’t expect
to strike you out here. What,
d’you live round here?”
“Yair, Stan. Have been this
last couple o’ years. What you
doin’ round this part o’ the
world?”
“Headin’ for Landham—to
the Show.”
“What, on the bikes? Gawd
strike me! Y’ can have it for
mine.”
“Why, it’s not that far, is it?”
“Over twenty miles, I’d
reckon.”
“Aw, well, we’ll take it pretty
easy.” Stan kicked his pedal
round and, about to mount, con-
fided : “We’re chasin’ a few bob:
they reckon there’s a boxing-
booth there, and a man’s got to
get a shillin’ somehow.”
The big man was suddenly
alert, his big shoulders left the
broad gate-post.
“Jack Mackville’s got the
booth there. Matter o’ fact, I’m
workin’ f’r him; I’m” He
broke off and looked at me with
obvious suspicion.
“Oh,” Stan remembered his
etiquette. “My brother-in-law,
Ted. Nug. Kerr, Ted Holman.”
We shook hands. He had a
big, hard hand and my thumb
felt a huge bony lump on the
back of his middle knuckle. The
introduction evidently removed
his doubts about me. He went
on:
“Yeah, Mackville’s giving me
four-quid for the three days.
I’m workin’ the crowd. Bet he’ll
go lousy first house —I jest
missed the train. Not another
f’r two hours.” A thought obvi-
ously occurred to him. “If you
get there first tell him I missed
the train, will.you, Stan? Tell
him I’m coming, though. It’ll
give you a bit of a leg-in with
him, too.
You want to tell him you’re
local blokes and’ve got a bit of
a followin’. He won’t give you
ago if you don’t. Go round
the back o’ the big tent before
the show starts. Oh, and he’ll
offer a fiver in his spruik on the
board, but that’s all me eye;
he’ll offer you fifteen-bob or a
quid around the back if he
thinks you’ll draw the mob in.
It’s no use stickin’ out f’r any
more, he won’t pay it.”
“Good ; thanks, Ted. I’ll do
that. And I’ll give him your
message. Hooroo.”
We pedalled on our way.
1 COULD sense that Stan was
A happy. If he’d been a sing-
ing man he would certainly have
burst into song; but even my
sister had never heard him sing
so much as one note.
Maybe the smack of boxing-
gloves was the most inspiring
music he knew. Queer the way
he loved the game. And it
wasn’t as though it had been
extra kind to him. It had given
him a left ear that was filled-in
at the top like a large quarter
of a mandarin; he had known
the heartbreak that can come
to a young pug who is hailed as
a future champion and pushed
up too fast; to many who had
known him at his best he was
now a has-been. A has-been
at 26 years of age! But he still
loved the game.
I, too, was happy, in an ex-
cited, breathless kind of way.
This was adventure. I felt like a
young knight on his way to the
lists, relieved to find that he
didn’t feel frightened. In the
gym., of course, I had had plenty
of spars that were really fights,
inasmuch as they were bouts
in which neither “pulled”
punches and both did their best;
but I had never had a fight in
the ring. And everybody who
had been “in there” said it was
different; especially the first
time: the nervous tension, the
crowd, the kill-or-be-killed at-
mosphere. I hoped I would still
feel as confident when the
moment came.
Stan eased up a little and we
rode abreast again.
“That might be right what
Ted said,” he began thought-
fully. “I think we’d better be
fellows from around Landham
somewhere, or he mightn’t give
us a go. But it wouldn’t be any
use saying we’re Landham
blokes or the locals ’ll smell a
rat. There’s a place called
Wurragong a few miles out of
Landham; it ought to be all
right. Yes, we’ll be a couple of
farmers from Wurragong.”
I nodded. We rode in silence
for a few minutes, then he
added: “We’d better have dif-
ferent names. I think I’ll be
Cec Wilson, yes, Cec Wilson
from Wurragong.”
I understood the reason for
the different name—it was a
matter of pride. Nobody was
going to say “Stan Hindley’s
come down to fighting in a tent-
show.”
There was no reason why I
shouldn’t use my own name,
still, “I’ll be, let’s see,” I said ;
“what would be wrong with Fred
Davis, that’s our milk-oh’s
name?”
Suddenly Stan put his brake
on, swerved slightly, and came
within half-a-wheel of spilling
me. He jumped off his bike and
dived a hand down into the white
dust.
“Sixpence!” He held the coin
up. “That’s the first bit of luck.
We’re going to have a lucky
day.”
We pedalled on and on.
An old chap was chopping at
the trunk of a felled tree in a
wayside paddock. From the
undulating brim of his faded
grey-felt hat a net hung down
to cover his face. A bee-smoker
fumed near his feet. At a safe
distance we stopped and Stan
hailed him:
“How far is it to Landham?”
“About twelve miles,” came
the muffled reply.
“Good. Thanks.”
“I think we might go home
the Landham-road way,” Stan
said thoughtfully as we rode on.
“I’ve got an idea we came the
long way round.”
I hadn’t got round to thinking
of going home.
■pROM the top of a hill we
looked down at Landham
showground.
Together we rode to the
entrance-gate and dismounted.
A tall, gaunt man wearing a rib-
boned badge was obviously the
gatekeeper. Stan dived his hand
into his trousers-pocket.
“How much?”
“One-and-six each with bikes.”
Stan bridled.
“What? Charge for bikes?”
“Yep, sixpence.”
“Sixpence for a bike? A bike
don’t take up any room. And
it can’t see anything”
“Look. I don’t want to argue,
mate, it’s one-and-six with a bike,
a bob without. If you like to
risk leaving it outside you can,
but you’re not taking it in with-
out paying for it.”
I held my breath. Stan was
always a bit quick-triggered with
officialdom, and if he thought
they were trying to bounce
him ... I had visions of noses
being pulled, policemen being
summoned.
I dived into my pocket.
“It’s my shout, Stan.”
“No fear it’s not.” He paid
the money before I could pull
out the three two-shilling pieces
I had.
There was no mistaking the
boxing-booth with all its faded-
garish colors and grotesque
paintings of misshapen boxers
wearing pudding-like gloves and
fierce expressions. I had plenty
of time to study their pasty faces
as, holding both bikes, I stood
in the deserted sideshow-alley
and waited for my mate to return
from somewhere behind the big
marquee.
A man appeared on the plat-
form outside a tent bearing the
sign in huge letters “The Human
Snake Lady”; and a swarthy
man wearing a dirty turban
climbed on to the plank-platform
before a flamboyant cloth
placard proclaiming something
about the unfathomed mysteries
of the East.
Stan returned; success was
written on his rugged red-com-
plexioned face. But there was
something else besides.
“Ted Holman was right,” he
said in a whisper—and changed
it to almost a shout as the mystic
from the East opened up with a
deafening clang from a huge
handbell. “He’ll only pay fifteen-
bob. But he reckons he’ll pay
me a quid for another fight if
I get the crowd in with the first.
He told me who I was to pick.
The joker followed me out —
reckoned he’s got a boil on his
forehead so he’ll go down in the
third.”
So that was the “someth
else” on his mind. He wanted
beat the fellow on his meri
he didn’t like “stews.” But
was going on:
“He can please himself whai
he does, but I’ll be fair-dinkum
“Who will I pick?” I hop
my voice sounded normal.
“Don’t do anything this hou
There’s plenty of time. We’l
have a look at ’em first anc
see what they’re like. Here th
come now.”
CIX men filed on to the hig
plank supported on fort
four-gallon drums. They gradec
themselves like fruit—damagec
fruit, I couldn’t help thinking
biggest on the left, smallest
the right. None was youn
except, perhaps, the negro-100
ing one, the only man of t
six who did not have at least on
caulie-ear.
One man in particular attractet
my attention, a tall, red-heade
big-boned fellow whose frecklet
face would have branded him
as a pug even if he had bee
wearing a clerical collar insteac
of a red neck-to-knee woolle
outfit bearing, in huge whi
letters, “Mackville’s Troupe.” H
looked to be, and by his pos
tion on the board, was, a middle
weight. I, too, was a middle
weight.
He picked up a drumstick anc
thumped heavily on a bass-drum
At the other end of the boarc
the featherweight clanged madl
on a bell suspended over hi
head.
“That’s Mackville,” Stan sai
as a greying, sharp-featured ma
stepped on to the platform anc
began a typical showman’
spruik.
A crowd had gathered. From
behind us came a growl
“Bloody ratbags ; fancy bringing
bikes into a crowd.”
I turned covertly and saw
young, tall fellow wearing a very
loud tie.
“Who’ll have a glove? Who
wants to win a fiver? Who’l
take a glove?”
“I’ll have a go!” Stan’s voice
rang out clearly.
The chap with the loud tie
looked startled. He did not com-
plain again.
“I make the wrastle. I make
the wrastle.” The high-pitchec
voice came from the other side
of the crowd. A voice with a
slightly-foreign accent.
It was ignored.
“You’ll have a glove, will you?
What’s your weight?”
“Ten-twelve stripped.”
“Too light for heavy work;
too heavy for light work, eh?”
The crowd laughed.
“I’ll fight anyone on the
board! ”
“Pretty confident, eh? Well,
I’ve got a man your weight here
—Pat Flint. He’ll be your
match —perhaps more than your
match.”
Mackville flourished a beringed
hand towards a thick-set fellow
wearing a bandage around his
forehead. The boxer scowled
into the crowd.
“But I warn you, our boys are
tough. You fight at your own
risk, you understand that?”
“I make the wrastle. Why you
not listen?”
“So you want to take a
glove?”
“No; no. I not the fight. I
the wrastle!”
“All right, I’ll attend to you
later. Now you down there,
what’s your name and where do
you come from?”
“Cec Wilson, from Wurra-
gong.”
“Come up on the board and
let’s have a look at you.”
The crowd parted willingly.
“Now you understand the con-
ditions you fight under?”
Stan nodded his fair-curled
head.
“If you stay three rounds with
my boxer you get a fiver. If you
don’t you get” He waited for
the answer.
“I get nothing.”
“Nothing but a headache and
unpleasant memories of Land-
ham Show.”
It got the laugh from the
crowd that it was intended to
get.


§8 8
V. / i
>•
m
■
•: x
m
Vlfould'nt W father
\ fay Australian ?"
Be our guest—listen to
Jack Davey in the
Ampol Show every
Friday at 8.
says JACK DAVEY
When you buy Ampol Fuel or lubricants you buy the finest
available to you —and you buy Australian.
All your petroleum needs . . . distillate, power kerosine, lighting
kerosine, petrol and a complete range of farm lubricants, are
available from a company that is owned and controlled by 35,000
Australian shareholders.
Buying Ampol means you are supporting your friends, your
neighbours, and may be helping to develop what could be Aus-
tralia’s greatest asset... our own self-contained oil industry.
You’ll find confidence in the company he represents and the pro-
ducts he sells, makes your local Ampol agent a great fellow to do
business with.
Use wmwmwrwmm
FUELS & FARM LUBRICANTS
BE AUSTRALIAN - BUY AUSTRALIAN
A further clamor from the
man with the accent, then he
too was on the board and being
matched to wrestle a three-
de who With ako S ‘ r^e y> i
broken English Temners fraved
during ,h"e g matSSn Ld
forth ft" 6 wrestlers be ini
retrained with considerable
From the rear of the crowd
a stranger challenged the light-
weight. He proved to be a short,
stocky man wearing a shabby
blue-serge suit. He came from
Auburn, he told Mackville and
the crowd, was carrying his swag
in search of work, and thought
he could make a fiver.
All the matches were made, a
final thumping on the drum and
clanging on the bell, then the
troupe filed inside the marquee,
A big section of the crowd
surged towards the entrance.
T EAVING both bikes behind
L the marquee, I approached
Mackville at the dooiV Stan
had explained; I was allowed
in free.
“For the first bout, ladies and
gentlemen, what about a big
hand?”
A cunning move of Mack-
vine’s: the dapping brought in
any stragglers who were hesitat-
ing outside the marquee.
“You strip well, lad.” Mack-
ville ran his hand over Stan’s
sun-tanned shoulders like a
judge of horseflesh appraising a
thoroughbred.
He did strip well, too; had his
weight in the right places. Few
people would believe that I was
half-a-stone the heavier.
The bell rang and the fight
was on. Flint wasn't bad, but
he was being shaded. They fell
into a clinch.
“Let go. Let go!” Flint’s voice
was harsh, angry. He tugged and
struggled as though he was try-
ing to break free I saw Stan’s
lips tighten, his blue eyes blaze.
He moved in, stabbing with the
left.
The right-cross seemed to
come from nowhere. I saw
Stan’s head jolt back ; his feet
shuffled. Flint leapt in for the
kill. Too late. A straight-left
steadied him. A swift head-
move and Flint’s right flew over
SttOSS
“Let go Let eo>”
looke/ai me over the
all righiTgata *
They broke Instantly Stan
&rapa\hfofaTeS 8 hook:
The punch took Flint square on
the button and set him up ior
the right. He went down. The
bell rang as he was scrambing to
his feet.
Flint was down again in the
second round and twice in the
final round. Mackville gave the
decision to Stan. It was a
popular one.
I was too excited to take much,
interest in the wrestling; there
seemed a lot of showmanship
and synthetic anger about it.
Mackville gave the decision to
his own man, immediately found
himself in an argument with the
challenger, and promised to
match the couple again next
house. The man from Auburn
fonght a willing draw with the
lightweight.
I followed the crowd out and
collected the bikes. Stan came
out of a small tent behind the
marquee.
“That dirty twicer!” he ex-
claimed savagely. “Reckoned he
was going down, then had a sit-
ting shot and tried to follow it
up. Wish I’d had just one more
round.”
“You gave him plenty," I
grinned.
He grinned back. Then, be-
coming serious again, asked:
“How do you think you’d go
with the redheaded bloke?”
“I’d have a good chance,
wouldn’t I?”
“That’s what I reckoned. I
fixed it up with Mackville. He’s
going to introduce you as the
challenger, first house after
lunch.”
“And I think we may as well
have it now.”
With our sandwiches spread
out in then newspaper on the
grass between us, Stan said:
“By the looks of his face the blue
bloke ought to be dead easy to
hit. Now don’t forget: a good
straight-left; shift nice; try a
hook if you see him drop his
right glove ; stand off him all the
time ; don’t try to swap punches
with him. If you find he’s slip-
ping your straight-left over his
shoulder, aim lower down and
vary it with a balk and hook.”
I nodded. I was surprised to
find that I didn’t feel any more
nervous than if I was going to
put ’em on with a stranger in
the gym.
STAN nudged me as we came
back to the booth. Ted Hol-
man was on the platform and
wrangling with the heavyweight.
“If he wants dirt I’ll give it
to him!” he was shouting at
Mackville. “Yesterday he kept
swingin’ round me neck and
holdin’-and-hittin’. If he starts
that this time, I’m cornin’ at it,
too, see?”
“Yeah? And what d’you think
I’ll be doin’?”
The heavyweight’s chin was
stuck out in Holman’s face.
Mackville wriggled his gaunt
body between the two.
“All right, all right; if you
fellers want to make a grudge-
fight of it, I suppose I can’t stop
you, but”
“I’ll give him hold-and-hit,”
flared Burton, the heavyweight.
“You’ll have a flamin’ try!”
roared Holman.
We tailed behind the crowd
into the marquee.
Again the request for a big
hand for the first bout brought a
hearty clap—and, no doubt, a
few stragglers.
The bell clanged, Holman
rushed straight across the ring,
swinging a wild right as he came.
And Burton was down! Swept
backwards before that whirling
fist.
I waited for the boos. There
were no boos. Instead a mighty
roar vibrated the guy-ropes. It
was unbelievable. Surely the
crowd must have seen the “tele-
graph,” the dropping of the
chin so that the haymaking right
crashed against a hunched
shoulder! And the retaliating
swipe that the stricken boxer,
rising groggily, launched as his
opponent rushed in for the kill!
“See that? See that?” I heard
an old chap behind me yell
excitedly. “Lifted him clean off
his feet.”
As raw as a Hollywood-
Western fight, yet the crowd was
loving it. I glanced at Stan’s face.
He was wearing a tight smile,
the amused contemptuous smile
of a Beethoven forced to listen
to hot jazz.
The decision, a draw, received
a great ovation, and the
assurance of a good house next
time the two were matched.
Mackville chose that moment
to introduce me.
“Fred Davis from Wurragong,
your local lad, has challenged
my middleweight, Bluey Mat-
hews.”
I stood beside him in the
centre of the marquee and felt
incredibly foolish . . . Again I
followed the crowd outside, but
this time we both waited for the
crowd to collect once more.
Stan was to pick the colored
member of the troupe.
The drum thumped, the bell
clanged madly. Mackville
climbed up on the board and
began his spiel.
I found myself up on the
board beside him, the red-headed
middleweight on the other side.
The strange sensation came to
me that I was standing off, an
interested bystander, watching
myself standing before the crowd
and talking back to Mackville.
“Now you understand the
conditions? If you stay three
rounds I give you five brand-
new pound-notes. If you can
knock out my middleweight I’ll
double it. But if he knocks you
out or makes you quit, you
He stopped and left the open-
ing for the feeble joke about
the headache and unpleasant
memories of Landham Show.
Some unsuspected perversity in
my nature made me determined
to thwart him.
“I won’t squeal,” I answered.
He looked annoyed and tried
again. “You fully understand
that if you lose you get”
“Yes, I understand.”
He tried another tack: “You
do a bit of ploughing on your
farm at Wurragong, don’t you?”
“Er, yes,” I said doubtfully,
wondering what kind of farms
they did have around Wurra-
gong.
“Well, you know what it feels
like when you hit a stump and
the handles fly up and hit you
under the chin? Well, that’s
nothing to what it’ll feel like if
my middleweight lobs one on
you.”
He got his laugh from the
crowd. He’d earned it.
STAN’S match had been made;
he was standing beside me
on the board, and haggling was
going on again with the accented
wrestler in the middle of the
crowd.
“You ain’t Cec Wilson from
Wurragong! ”
The challenging voice was
alcoholic?, but very loud and
distinct.
We both started. Right at the
front of the crowd, his chin
level with our feet, a thin-faced,
tousle-headed young fellow was
staring up at Stan belligerently.
“I know Cec Wilson, and you
ain’t him,” he declared.
“Aw, wake up to yourself,
mate,” Stan bluffed.
“You ain’t Cec Wilson from
Wurragong ! ” the drunk shouted.
“I’ll bet you a quid I am.”
Stan made a great show of diving
into his pocket for money.
“Yair, and I’ll take you, too!”
He dragged a handful of silver
out of a trousers-pocket and
slapped it down on the board
at Stan’s feet.
I tried to sidetrack him.
“There’s more than one Wilson
in Wurragong, isn’t there?”
“ ’Course there is,” he flung
back. “There’s six of ’em—and
I know ’em all. And ’e ain’t
Cec!”
“Come inside the tent, mug,
challenged a voice from farther
along the board.
“Yair, and I’ll do that, too,’
he shouted hotly, reeled towards
the entrance, hesitated, tacked
back, scooped up his silver,
repeated in an even louder voice,
“Yair, I’ll do that, too,” and
vanished inside.
Instantly there was a commo-
tion at the other end of the
(Continued on page 22)


Research in Industry
No. 21 in a Series
m
Coal from Newcastle
In the chain of delivery from the pit-face to the domestic hearth
and factory furnace, not the least hazardous link is the coasting
collier, and honour must go to the seamen who man them. Honour
must also go to the great army of coal miners who win the vital fuel
and often work hundreds of feet below ground.
Little recognised is the fundamental fact which the chemical
industry plays in coal mining. Were it not for the chemist very
little coal would be brought to the surface at an economic cost.
ICIANZ make and supply the explosives used in shaft sinking, road
making, brushing, and in the actual coal getting. Coal mines are
of two kinds “open light” mines which are not dusty or gassy,
and “safety lamp” mines which are both dusty and gassy. In gassy
mines it is compulsory to use explosives known as “Permitteds,”
specially designed to prevent gas and/or coal dust ignitions. The
range of these explosives is that all types of stone and coal, hard or
soft, may be adequately mined. “Permitted” explosives are intended
to be fired by means of an electric detonator, in the construction of
which ICIANZ have also played their part. Not only do ICIANZ
thus contribute largely to the ease with which coal is produced, but
they increase the safety and well-being of the men working in the
mines.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
L.81C.2654
Between
Ourselves
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4887 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
board. Within thirty seconds he
came charging out. His shirt had
been pulled out, his hair ruffied-
up even more than it had been
before, and his nose looked as
though it had been rubbed round
and round under a hard palm.
“Three of ’em jobbed me!”
he cried in a maudlin voice.
“Got stuck into me—three of
’em! ”
Out of the corner of my eye
I saw the wrestler climbing back
on to the board from behind.
“Did you job him, you bloody
fool?” hissed Mackville.
“I just scrag him a leetle for
fun,” chuckled the nuggety little
trouper.
“Hit that drum!” ordered
Mackville hurriedly, and went
into his spruik. “Get your tickets
at the door, ladies and gentle-
men, the show is about to start.”
And in a hissed aside, “Get
inside, all of yez.”
TN the small tent behind the
1 marquee I changed into the
trunks I had brought; I had
never been able to afford boxing-
boots, so intended to box in bare
feet. However, a thought
occurred to me and I left my
socks on; there could be burrs
in the grass of the ring.
Standing beside one of the
poles in the big marquee I again
felt that sensation of being a
casually - interested looker - on
watching myself.
My opponent pulled off the
red jumper and, wearing only the
ankle-length tights and boxing-
boots, stood ready. Mackville
called us together.
Again that “big hand for the
first bout,” then the bell.
Automatically, just as I had
done dozens of times in the gym,
I moved around. A message was
running through my brain >
“Don’t forget, a good left hand ;
shift nice; don’t try to swap
punches”—l got a glimpse of a
battered-looking red face behind
moving gloves, long, freckled
arms.
Swish! Swish!
My backmove had been
mechanical. The left and follow-
ing right dropped short. But I
had seen the opening—when he
missed with the second punch
he dropped his head forward. If
he did it again . . .
He charged in again. Left.
Right. And his head was down
again, in perfect position for a
right uppercut. It landed. Solidly,
with the back knuckles. His head
jerked up. I stabbed a left in
quickly and moved around.
With a sense of elation I
realised that my opponent was
no thinker. He hadn’t caught on
to what he was doing and why
I was able to land those two
punches. And he kept leaving
the same opening.
“A good boxer changes his
tactics”; that was a ring-saw,
but those two punches kept con-
necting, and the devil you know
is better than the one you don’t.
I didn’t change mine.
Another right uppercut,
another swift stab to the nose
and I was moving around again.
The bell rang. My opponent
dropped his long arms and
wheeled away.
“It ain’t a fight, it’s a race! ”
he exclaimed loudly, with bitter-
ness.
I started. In the gym.,
opponents didn’t say things like
that. Suddenly I felt deflated.
Perhaps I wasn’t doing so well,
after all. Perhaps I was moving
around too much. And yet—you
can’t land solid punches if you’re
running away, I must have
landed pretty nearly twenty
good-’uns.
I had reached the pole that
served as my comer. Then I
saw Stan’s face. His grin brought
my confidence rushing back: I
must have been doing all right.
Two of Mackville’s troupe
seconded me. One began to
swing a towel, the other held a
lemonade-bottle of water to my
lips.
“Don’t straight-left him. Get
stuck into him; he’s got noth-
ing on you.”
I stared. The other second
added his whisper: “That’s right;
don’t straight-left him, swing at
him. You’d stop him if you
swapped punches with him.”
t>EWILDERED, I wondered
vaguely why these two
wanted to see their mate
knocked out. “Swing at him?”
“Don’t straight-left him?” But
Stan had said . . .
The bell rang. I moved out to
mid-ring. My mind, so clear in
the first round, was now com-
pletely confused. “Get stuck
into him . . .” “Stand off
him ...” “You’d stop him if you
swapped punches with him . . .”
“Don’t swap punches with
him . . .”
I stopped a rush by stabbing
that flat nose with a straight-left
—and felt guilty for doing it.
Perhaps if I could knock him
down! Not by swinging, of
course. Long ago I’d been shown
how a straight punch would beat
a swing. But if I could work
that one where you drop your
left glove on his forearm as he
leads a left and crash your right
over the top. It was a mighty
wallop if you could land it. But
it was a bit dangerous; have to
watch he didn’t lob a right while
I was knocking his left down.
Wait for a lead.
This was it!
I caught the left on my right
glove, dropped my own left on
his forearm. Suddenly lights
shot across my eyes, the only
light in a world gone completely
black. I came-to in a clinch,
without knowing how I got there.
The blackness had gone, as
suddenly as it had come. I
was all right again. But I had
learned.
Our heads clashed. I mumbled
an apology, just as we did in the
gym. There was no proffered
gloves in acceptance. With a
shock I realised that it might not
have been an accident. A gashed
eyebrow could win or lose a
fight.
We broke. But now the con-
fusion in my mind was gone.
My opponent bored in. The
same tactics: pawing left-lead
and fast-following right-cross,
with the head dropping down-
wards if it missed. I stepped
in with the right uppercut. The
punch thudded home; his red
head jerked up. I stabbed the
left to his mouth and moved
around. Pattern or no pattern,
it was working; and while it
was working I was trying no
more experiments.
The bell rang. I looked across
the ropeless ring at Stan. He
grinned and nodded slightly.
I stood with my back to the
post. One of my seconds was
swinging the towel. Mackville
had taken the place of the other
and was standing beside me,
holding his wristlet-watch in
front of my eyes so I could see
that I was getting my full
minute’s spell. At least, that was
the way it would appear to the
crowd.
Actually, his forearm was
serving the purpose of hiding his
mouth as he whispered: “Have a
go at him. Never mind the fancy
boxing. This is upta! These
Woop-woops don’t understand
boxing; they like slafher-an’-
whack. They won’t pay good
money to see this. They think
punches don’t hurt unless they
start from the backside. Swap
punches with him. You’re not
frightened, are you?”
I didn’t answer. Stan had
moved around the fringe of the
crowd so that I could see him.
His left hand raised in a slight
symbol. I understood. Straight-
left.
I went out for the last round
with a clear mind. Halfway
through, Mackville gave the
crowd a lead.
“Have a go, Wurragong!” he
barracked.
“He’s doin’ all right,” came a
voice in reply, and I felt a glow
inside. At least one stranger in
the crowd was satisfied with my
performance.
Mackville gave me the deci-
sion. Nobody in the tent booed.
I was too excited to concen-
trate on the other bouts. I saw
Stan defeat the colored boy on
points, but the fight didn’t photo-
graph on my memory.
Mackville got in a little propa-
ganda about the booth being
on again next day, the crowd
filed out of the marquee, and
we two returned to the small tent
to get dressed.
T WAS surprised to find fully a
A dozen men inside. The
foreigner who wanted to “make
the wrastle” was there, talking
quietly to the opponent he
wrangled so violently with
on the platform. They looked
remarkably alike, almost like
brothers. The boxer from
Auburn was also one of the
troupe, I was amazed to note.
“You! You dirty twister!”
Stan had sighted hte first antag-
onist. “You was goin’ to go
down in the thud. Then you
tried to have a sitting shot, you
dirty bludger.”
“What’s up with you? ” The
other flared back. “Think a
man’s goin’ to stand there and
let y’ flatten him! ”
“If you wanted a fair go,
what y’ come at that stunt for?
And that ‘Let go!’ business. A
man ought”:
“We’re told to say that.
Any’ow, youse mugs’d give a
man the gripes. Yez’d whinge
if a man was in bed with yez.”
“All them bloody mugs are the
same.” With a shock I realised
that the speaker was my erstwhile
opponent and his bitterness was
obviously addressed at me.
“Fancy straight-leftin’ a man —
with me lips and nose all busted
up from yesterdee!”
I didn’t answer ; I was holding
my breath and wondering what
would happen if Stan’s argument
got to the punching stage, which
it looked certain to do in about
three more sentences.
I sneaked a glance around the
walls of the tent: the biggest
collection of plug-uglies I had
ever seen; they were standing
in stolid, unfriendly silence like
a number of Sitting-Bulls watch-
ing the stake being prepared for
a paleface. It was then I realised
that I would never see eye to
eye with Horatius concerning the
glory of meeting death by
“facing fearful odds.”
“Well, it’s no use chewing
these things over.” The unex-
pected oil on the troubled waters
came from the Auburn man.
“They’re over and done with.
Forget ’em.”
It was the most pleasing
speech I’d ever heard. I followed
it up quickly. “We’ll have to
shake it up, Stan ; we haven’t
got lights, y’know.”
With reluctance he followed
me to the flap of the tent. There
he wheeled. “One day some-
body is going to put some insect-
powder on you, you louse,” he
flung back, and followed me
happily.
TLTACKVILLE was sitting at a
collapsible table, counting
a huge pile of two-shilling pieces
like some depression-deflated
Midas whose touch merely
turned everything to silver. Sur-
prisingly he was both affable and
very loquacious.
“Ah, good. Now, how much
do I owe you? Two fifteen-bobs
and one quid—two-pound-ten.”
He talked as he counted the
coins, then passed the lot over
Stan. Trouble was, he explained
in a semi-apologetic way, nice
boxing wasn’t appreciated by
show crowds. Put on a rort with
a trouper working the crowd and
the mob loved it.
He told Stan that he remem-
bered “when you was in the
game. Cec Wilson, yes, knew the
name well.” Then he rose,
pushed out a bony hand and
closed the interview with: “Drop
in and see me any time I’m
around, you’ll always find me a
good sport.”
Stan had been running the
coins through his fingers.
“You paid me six-bob short,”
he said flatly.
“Jeez, did I?” Mackville was
all apologies. “That’s talking
when I was countin’.” He paid
over the other three florins.
“All right if it had come off,”
Stan muttered to me as we
ducked under the loose side of
the marquee. We walked towards
our bikes. Stooping to pick his
up, Stan emitted a sharp
exclamation. From the back
tyre a large pin protruded.
“That dirty bludger of a Flint
did that!” he declared, his eyes
protruding the way they did
when he was really wild. “I’ll
go back and flatten him.”
The vision of that tentfnl of
punch - scarred pugs flashed
through my mind. My brain has
never worked faster. I caught
his arm.
“But that fellow mightn’t have
done it,” I said quickly. “Any
kid going past could have stuck
that pin in. You can’t accuse
anyone unless you’re sure.”
“I bet he did it, all the same,”
he growled, standing glaring at
the small tent.
He’ll go back and have him
on, I thought to myself, even
if he gets us both murdered.
“But you can’t be sure,” I
insisted in desperation.
“If I was sure . . .” he
growled ominously. He picked
up the bike by the handlebar.
“I’ll ride it with the pin in the
hole,” he said ; “Won’t let that
bludger have the satisfaction of
seeing me trying to mend it.”
My heart-beat returned to
normal.
■pOR the first ten miles of the
ride home exhilaration rode
with me. Darkness, reaction and
tiredness crept over me in
unison. There was no poetry in
the pedals any more. Nor did
the Landham-road seem any
shorter than the way we had
come.
A cyclist passed us up a hill.
It was an affront to Stan’s pride.
He took off in pursuit. About
two miles farther along the
road he was waiting for me,
having beaten the other fellow
up three grades and restored
prestige.
But I rode on mechanically.
On and on and on.
Only on the last mile, like a
horse with its head towards
home, did I find myself pushing
vigorously at the pedals, a silent
song setting the tempo.
The alarm-clock on the
chimney-shelf showed ten-past-
nine (five-to-nine “by the right”)
when we walked into the kitchen
at home.
Blinking in the light I saw
Mum’s soft, grey-blue eyes
immediately search my face, then
she looked at Stan. Sis’s eyes did
the same thing in reverse. Then
they both smiled. We were not
knocked about. Dad was sitting
in the big chair looking at us
over the top of his glasses.
“Did you have a fight?”
young Bob shot at me.
“Did you win ?” Excitement
glowed in young Nutty’s face.
Stan strode to the table and
emptied the money on it, like
a privateer flaunting the spoils
of the Spanish Main. (Later he
divided it and insisted on my
having half, even to the sixpence
he had found.)
I felt like a young knight who
had won his spurs.
“In years to come,” Mum said
in her quiet voice, as she filled
the tea-cups for the third time,
“you’ll look back on today as
a great adventure.”


'm
\b
a
H I
a
O.
n sJI
8 J
SO
n
3
S 3
3
3
0
C 3
£2
trj
/y^
rnSSB
E2af
w
cp v»
o
* <»
QV
W*
0*
*•<7*2
o *>
8U
0 ■>
C 3
O
>Oo>
o<>Oo
tv
o?
S 3
\3^
*o*
<o
*<^o
00»
'Ooo
IS
9 .;•>
J?;V
OOUQfitJ
f .
<>os
OO')
®;
“in
/m
i
'<>£>2
'
W
a
£' W-i
r^
<ti
•Sit!J
S 3
within half A mile or so of ficcadilly circus are many of those
famous London highways and buildings which, all over the world,
have come to signify the peak of quality. And, at the very centre of
quality tradition, is Old Bond Street —the home of Benson & Hedges.
Here, for close on a century , Benson & Hedges have quietly pursued
the art of making their cigarettes from the finest of fine Virginia
tobaccos, blended with superb skill and care.
Among smokers there will always be those whose first concern is
with price rather than with quality. There are others —perhaps
smokers by habit—who will admit that, between one cigarette and
another, they themselves are unable to detect any significant differ-
ence in quality. But, to Benson & Hedges,
the only kinds of cigarettes worth making
and worth smoking are those which reach the perfection which
distinguishes a cigarette made from the finest leaf by craftsmen who
know no standards other than the best. That , of course , is a personal
view. But it is a view which, happily, is shared by the many smokers
in all parts of the world who have for so long enjoyed Benson &
Hedges cigarettes in the friendly, familiar, red tin.
Now , in Australia , with cigarettes again in unrestricted supply,
it is noticeable —and Benson & Hedges are proud of the compliment
—that the natural experiments and trials with other cigarettes have
merely served to confirm the smokers’ original choice and judgment
of Benson & Hedges. For with cigarettes, as with so much else, a
few extra pence can make so great a differ-
ence in added enjoyment.
©
<53
J/ aiuammC
J&ndon-
(§) tftoue < &uau£l {§)
(5) J&mua/itf
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEER
TOBACCONISTS
BENSON * HEDGES LTD
w
BmsoNmd Hedges
OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W 1
THERE ARE ALSO SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED FOR THOSE WHO PREFER THEM


|
mm
u*
m.
M
V .
MwMPi
ill
Nuffield Universal Tractor, equipped with hydraulically operated
front-end loader and 6-ft. dozer blade, shown clearing farm land.
The tractor illustrated is the Nuffield M 4 (kerosene-powered)
with 13.50 x 24 rear tyres fitted to heavy-duty cast wheel centres
(making wheel weights unnecessary).
This model tractor, costing only £1,005 (Capital City), in-
cludes the following standard equipment: Hydraulic lift, 3-point
linkage, p.t.o. belt pitlley, ' drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter and horn, headlight,
rear light, tail and side lights, heat gauge, hour meter,
foot plates,' chaff screens and radiator shutters.
Other tyre sizes available: 11 x 36R, 6.00 x 19F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x
16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x 18F; 11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies accordingly in price.)
Aik your Authorised Nuffield Dealer for full particulars of all
models and matched implements.
Nuffield. (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement Division, Box
73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range and
“Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
| Place X In this square If for school project.
0.8
NUFFIELD (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR
CORPORATION (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
*»oto s
BMC
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
K&.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
The Qroues of the Rieh Then
By Kylie
Tennant
WHEN my small son first
saw Billy Daniels he
screamed in horror.
He had become accus-
tomed to black men, but Billy
was not only black. He was
wearing a black shirt, a large
black sombrero and black
glasses; too much of a good
thing.
The next time we saw Billy
he had discarded the black
glasses and everything else
except some cockatoo-feathers
and white paint. He had on a
pair of trousers rolled up above
his knees, and was clicking out
the time for a corroboree on a
pair of axe-handles, and singing
in a pleasant tenor, while the
other men, in paint and
cockatoo-feathers and tribal-
markings, went through a wild
and complicated dance, with the
blue sea and the long fine of
reef and coast behind them.
Billy' is chief of the three
cattle-councillors who manage
over a thousand head of stock at
the Lockhart River Mission
Cattle Co-operative. He has
even more influence and author-
ity as chief songman, although I
suspect that half the time he
doesn’t understand the songs but
has picked them up by ear.
They were mostly in a wild
minor and not easy to sing. As
the last repository of tribal
tradition, the initiator of the
young men, Billy Daniels is a
person of importance.
“You ought to have a yarn
with Billy some time,” I was
told. “He knows all the old
legends.”
But having a yarn with Billy
was easier said than done. He
was out at the stockyard helping
brand and earmark and emascu-
late calves, a gruesome, hot and
barbarous business. There he
was officially introduced to me
and shook hands while gripping
a blood-dripping knife. Yes,
certainly, he said, peering
through his dark glasses. He
would come round and talk.
“Get him to tell you about the
little brown men,” the mission
superintendent’s wife insisted.
“What little brown men?”
“He sees them. And he
knows which type of devils are
which ; the mitchi-mu and the
ka-tar-pa that comes out of the
sea, and the awu which is only
a policeman to frighten
children.”
HTHAT night B,illy Daniels
appeared on the doorstep
and we settled on the frent-
veranda in the dark to talk.
Billy had a low whispering
voice, and his English was of a
peculiar brand, only half-
intelligible to city-bred whites.
“Tell me,” I said, pushing the
tobacco in his direction, “about
the little brown men.”
Inside, our only lamp cast a
glow against the pandanus
thatch of the roof, where a
transparent lizard was running
along busily, upside-down. Two
young engineers we had asked
to dinner were taking out some
turtle-eggs from the refrigerator
and discussing the cooking at
the top of their voices. I should
have been inside dispensing
hospitality, but it often
happened that I needed to be
in two places at once. I was
much happier with Billy than
with the two engineers, who
were normal, cheerful young
men.
Billy, in his pleasant voice
with its doubtful English, began
to tell me how, when he was
policeman of the settlement, he
had seen one of the little brown
men one night.
“You know Barney?”
I knew Barney, who was in
my illiterates’ class learning to
read My mat is in my house.
“Barney and I see him one
night. Barney is policeman with
me then, and we see him in the
torch.”
The policemen have a torch
because part of their duties is to
escort barefooted people around
in the dark where there are
likely to be taipans and death-
adders.
“We see him —little —like a
child —brown. We say, ‘Stop!
Where you going?’ He does not
speak, and walks away, so we
follow him.”
They kept along behind the
little brown man, who strolled
through the settlement and then
vanished, although they still had
the torchlight on him.
Another time, when Billy and
his family were eating their
evening meal, Billy noticed a
little brown man at the window.
He silently indicated the visitor
to the others ; a plate was filled
with food and passed through
the window and accepted. In
the morning the plate was found
empty.
“They eat like us?”
Billy nodded, but explained
that the little brown men were
not like us. “They different,”
he insisted.
“They live here?”
His English tied him in knots,
but he tried to explain that,
while the little brown men lived
here, they liyed in another
dimension.
“Your people see them?”
“Some see. Not all.”
“Your old people, way back—
they see them?”
“Yes. They always see them.”
You must be very careful with
the little brown men. You must
address them politely. If you
were unkind, you would fall
sick. But they will do you no
harm if you treat them well.
Now, what made Billy’s story
interesting to me was that I had
heard it before. A friend who
works in a Government depart-
ment in Sydney, and whose
veracity has not been otherwise
aspersed, related how he had
seen little brown men dancing in
Hyde Park.
“They were about the size of
children.”
When we suggested that they
must have been children, he said
quickly that he knew at once
they weren’t children. They
were “different from us.” It
made him very happy to see
them there. They were small
and brown and they were
dancing. That was all.
The guests, with turtle-eggs
for tea, were becoming im-
patient, so I pressed the remain-
ing tobacco on Billy and he rose
to go. I found myself engaged
to go riding next day. “Over
there,” Billy said, waving his
arm north towards Cape Direc-
tion. “I show you graves.
They all buried one place—big
mob of people—bones stick up
in the sand.”
“What were you talking to
Billy about all that time?” one
of the engineers asked.
We had discussed people who
could see into the future in their
dreams, those who could use
telepathy, how long and what
training was needed for a song-
man, the different tribal-
markings and divisions.
“Wonderful old liar, isn’t he?”
the engineers commented.
ATEXT afternoon, in the blaz-
ing heat, Billy was outside
the gate on his own horse and
leading one called Socks.
My bones ached when I saw
Socks. He was a good camp-
horse, and at the sight of cattle
he could show you exactly what
to do, taking you round the mob
and hinting that you should turn
that lead bullock. Once I rode
Socks from eight in the morning
until eight at night.
“Little way,” Billy said airily,
as we plodded off pursued by the
howls of my son, who was con-
vinced that the black man in the
black glasses and hat was carry-
ing off his mother.
Billy’s idea of a little way was
like the casual “bime’bye”
which means that something
may happen some time. We
pursued our course along the
beach between the receding tide
and the swamp lagoon.
Now, although Billy’s English
was half unintelligible, we both
had the same kind of minds, so
we were friends. Our conversa-
tion vyas easy and about the need
for more horses. There were
only ninety horses for twenty
stockmen, and some of those
horses were too young, some
were only pack-horses. The
mission, Billy maintained,
should buy a hundred horses.
“With what?” I asked rudely.
If he could think of a plan for
getting horses that didn’t need
money, he might be able to con-
vince the superintendent.
By the time we had done
about five miles along the beach,
we had thrashed out a plan
whereby Billy could take ten of
the younger stockmen and build
a yard, conduct a drive for wild
horses, and tame them on the
spot. Last time they had tried
this there had been some mis-
understanding because they
seemed to have a number of
horses with other people’s
brands on them. The grounds-
man at the ’drome thirty miles
away was threatening to shoot
horses to keep them off the air-
strip, and one man over at Coen
had shot over a thousand horses
for their manes and tails while
poor aboriginal cattlemen had
only ninety horses between
twenty men!
We talked about the thirty-
mile fence to close the gaps in
the ranges. They would have a
good home-paddock then instead
of the little home-paddock only
four miles square . . .
But as we came to the top of
the sandspit, Billy fell silent.
He went questing about.
My horse, I noticed, was
stepping across whitened bones,
rib-bones protruding from the
sand. From what Billy was
saying I gathered that there
were two sets of graves. Out
there at the end of the cape was
(Continued on page 30)


Its Odd Story to Now
A Second Jazz-age?
By P. F. DEMPSEY
BETWEEN Christmas and
New Year the N.S.W.
town of Cootamundra
made history by being the
first country town in Australia
to have a jazz convention.
Members of jazz-clubs from all
over Australia met together to
play, discuss, listen to and dance
to the genuine, traditional Dixie-
land jazz.
It was the fifth of these con-
ventions since the war, the pre-
vious ones haying been held at
Melbourne, Sydney, Hobart and
Adelaide. There are jazz-clubs in
all Australian capital cities, and
new ones are forming all the
time. In Sydney most members
go to the fortnightly meetings to
listen and dance, but aspiring
musicians sometimes “sit in”
with the club’s band (the Para-
mount) for experience or just for
the thrill of it.
This Australian interest in
traditional jazz is symptomatic
of a movement that is world-
wide, for jazz, # which had its
heyday back in the ’twenties and
seemed to die away about 1930,
is now being recognised as a
serious art-form and treated with
a good deal more deference.
The recent decision of the
United States Government to
send jazz-musicians Louis Arm-
strong and Count Basie on a
cultural tour of the Near East,
the Far East and Africa is an
indication of the importance it
has achieved in America. From
having been the stepchild of the
arts, it has become “the all-
American culture.”
There, its structure and its
contribution to music are being
studied at the universities ; books,-
learned, historical, colorful, and
sometimes so academic as to be
almost unintelligible, pour from
the pens of authors devoted
entirely to the service of jazz;
gramophone-records made by
the traditional masters of jazz,
such as Jelly Roll Morton, are
preserved in the museum of
Congress for the benefit of future
generations, and recordings from
the “golden age” of jazz are
sought and treasured by col-
lectors as zealously as first-
editions of any classics.
Those who have never takeh
more interest in jazz than to
switch it off from the radio,
who cannot (and do not wish)
to tell boogie from bebop, and
who think Dixieland is repre-
sented by Bing Crosby singing
“Way Down Upon the Swannie
River” would find, if they looked
into it, that there is a great deal
more in jazz than meets the un-
tutored ear. That is, the tradi-
tional jazz, going bade nearly
threequarters of a century, and,
according to the experts, the only
type worth while musically.
Its history goes back to the
close of the American Civil War,
when for the first time the
American negro came in contact
with musical instruments of the
white-man. For over 200 years of
slavery the negro had kept alive,
through work-songs and
spirituals, the jungle - music
brought from Africa, with its
strange rhythms and complex
mingling of voices. On emanci-
pation, they transferred this
music to the cornets, trombones,
clarinets and drums left behind
in southern pawnshops by dis-
banded Confederate armies and
pickecL-up for a few pence by
the ex-slaves.
Quite ignorant of Western
music, but guided by a pure
musical instinct and the memory
of intricate jungle-rhythms, they
drew from these instruments
musical sounds never before
heard. They gained, too, a
mastery over the instruments
which was unique, because,
fresh and uninhibited as they
were in their approach, they
overcame technical difficulties
without even knowing they
existed.
They developed a virtuosity of
technique that was later to
astonish the world. They made
the instruments “talk,” so that
the music took the place of the
voices jemembered from African
dances, while the drums gave the
beat.
They would take the melodic
line of a French quadrille or a
polka, or any ditty that met their
ears, and then, in groups of five,
six or seven, they would “dis-
cuss” it, with the cornet leading,
the trombone and the clarinet
each weaving in and out accord-
ing to its nature. The guitar and
the double-bass would give the
rhythm, while the drums carried
the strong, insistent beat.
Thus were the first jazz-bands
formed. Their birthplace was
New Orleans, still known to jazz-
men as “the land of dreams”
and “the city that care forgot” ;
a rich and beautiful city, tolerant,
indolent, gay, where every social
occasion was an opportunity for
a street-parade, whether it was
a funeral, a lodge-meeting, a
picnic, a wedding or a civic cele-
bration ; where the festivities of
the Mardi Gras lasted nearly
six weeks, with a parade every
day and every parade needing
from one to 14 bands to give it
the right touch of revelry.
In such a climate the cult of
jazz flourished and strengthened.
In the ’nineties, the gay and
roaring ’nineties, people started
to dance to the exciting new
music. Dance-halls sprang up,
and the piano was added to the
rhythm-instruments, (The. piano,
never an important part of jazz
proper, was to develop its own
type of the music, and became
known as “boogie-woogie” in
1928.)
In the ’nineties, too, the
colored Creoles of New Orleans,
many of them with a background
of education and a knowledge
of Western music, joined the
negro jazz-players and added a
finesse and polish to what was
known as “the barrel-house”
style of the early jazzmen, but
which also had given the music
its extraordinary zest and vigor.
By this time the chief
characteristics of true jazz were
clearly established. First, it was
improvised. The musicians built
up the composition according
to the mood, need and feeling
of the occasion, and the music
poured out, fresh, new-minted
and shining for each perform-
ance. It is this creative element
in jazz which the traditional jazz-
enthusiasts try to maintain
today.
Next, the music was synco-
pated. The rhythm was accented
on the down-beat, and there were
many intricately woven rhythms
moving together at the one time.
This irregularity of rhythm in
jazz, by the way, has fascinated
most of the contemporary Euro-
pean composers, including
Stravinsky, Ravel, Honegger,
Milhaud and Hindemith.
Another characteristic of jazz
was the uncertain way in which
the third and seventh notes of
the scale (“blue notes”) were
pitched between the major and
the minor, an effect which gave
a peculiar poignancy to the
music. There was a hesitancy,
too, in the rhythm in relation, to
the beat, fascinating to Western
ears, difficult to define, but
described by Rudi Rlesh (in
Shining Trumpets) as being as
though “the beat were pulling
the music after it,” as opposed
to Western music, which “seems
to push the beat.”
By this time, too, the “break,”
or solo, was an established part
of jazz-playing. It is said that
the break had a practical pur-
pose at the beginning. March-
ing while creating and playing
new music in conjunction with
five or six other musicians could
be exhausting work, so from
time to time the leader would
signal to one of the players to
carry on alone while the others
rested.
Later, “breaks” came to be
taken by any of the musicians
when he was “in the groove”—
that is, when inspiration was
flowing so freely and joyously
“Why don't you carry it in a bag like I do?"
through his instrument that the
other members of the band, by
unspoken consent, retired from
prominence and left him to play
his inspiration out.
Above all, jazz was vital.
Lively and vigorous by its
nature, it was made more so by
the competition between the
many bands which were formed
at this time. In the New Orleans
of the ’nineties a band would
set out, perhaps to advertise a
dance to be held in the evening,
and, meeting another band,
would start to blast away at it
with the loudest and liveliest and
most complicated music it could
invent, to be met by a corre-
sponding thunderstorm of music
from the other band, until one or
the other gave way from sheer
exhaustion.
It was in this way that certain
bands gained supremacy and
leaders came to be crowned
“king of jazz.” The first leader
to be so crowned was Buddy
Bolden, a dynamic personality
who formed the first jazz-band,
in 1893. He and his band were
in demand every w h ere and
countless stories are told about
him, and how the loud, wild
notes of his comet, which could
be heard for miles across the
city, would “call his chillun’
home,” enticed by the vibrant
music. Buddy Bolden died in
1907, worn out, some say, by
mental strain, others by riotous
living.
The history of jazz from the
’nineties until 1917 is associated
with the history of Storyville, the
notorious red-light district of
New Orleans, established in
1897 by an ordinance which for-
bade prostitution in other parts
of the city it took its name
from that of the respectable
alderman who initiated the
ordinance!
The concentration of dance-
halls, saloons, gambling-dens
and worse in this district soon
created a great demand for
musicians, and they flocked
there, attracted first by the big
money offered, and later by the
lure of the music, which bloomed
with rich exuberance in its un-
savory setting.
Many new bands were formed
and great players emerged;
among them, Jo Oliver (known
as Papa Oliver or King Oliver)
on cornet, and Freddie Keppard,
also a cornet-player, who, many
years later, had the opportunity
to make the first jazz-records,
but refused, because “he
wouldn’t put his music down for
others to copy.” Later still there
was Louis Armstrong.
Meanwhile the white musicians
of New Orleans had become
interested in the new music of
the negro, and by 1900 Jack
Laine had several bands of white
musicians who played in the
negro style. Their music was
the first “Dixieland jazz.” The
name came from the word “dix”
on the New Orleans ten-dollar
bill, and was the name by which
New York and Chicago first
heard jazz. “Dixieland” is
traditional jazz as played by the
white musicians. “Classic” jazz
is a term given by most
authorities only to jazz as played
by the negro.
All this time the showboats
which plied up and down the
Mississippi were carrying jazz to
many northward cities, the bands
playing not only for the
passengers on the boats but also
for the crowds that gathered on
the levees to greet the showboats
on their arrival. Many famous
jazz-players from American
cities along the Mississippi first
heard jazz by this means, includ-
ing, it is said, the fabled Bix
Beiderbecke.
Although a few negro bands
had found their way before
1915 to Chicago, it was a Dixie-
land band, led by Tom Brown,
which first made ja zz known in
the city which was to become
its second-home and the scene
of its second flowering.
When Tom Brown’s Band
first arrived in Chicago it met
with opposition from the musi-
cians’ union, which sought to
bring its music into contempt by
calling it “Jass,” a slang-word
with disreputable associations.
But the slandering backfired;
people became curious to hear
the new music, and soon Tom
Brown was diplaying a new sign:
“Brown’s Dixieland Jass Band,
Direct from New Orleans.”
This was the first use of the
word which later became “jazz”
—a word which gave its name to
an age, and eventually grew to
be one of the best-known, though
perhaps most misused, words in
the language.
It was in 1917, however, that
jazz really left its home in New
Orleans and began to make its
mark in a wider sphere. In that
year Storyville, after 20 hectic
years, was closed-down by
Government decree, its dangers
to the young American soldiers
then enlisting being considered
too great.
The great jazz-musicians, look-
ing for a new home that would
provide the right atmosphere for
the creation of their music and
would give them a sympathetic
welcome, found it in Chicago —
a free-and-easy city, rich and
generous, high-spirited and not
intolerant to the colored people.
The most outstanding musician
who went to Chicago from New
Orleans at this time was King
Oliver, due to be one of the
central figures of the new classic
age of jazz that was to come.
At this time Prohibition was
just beginning, speakeasies were
springing up, dance-halls could
not come into existence quickly
enough to cope with the people
flocking to them to cure their
post-war restlessness, money was
free, rackets and speculation
were rife, the boom was on and
the world was looking for some-
thing new to distract it from its
fears. And jazz, with its strong,
vigorous tones, its freedom from
sentimentality, and, above all,
its vitality, supplied just the right
music for the age.
By 1920, when King Oliver’s
Creole Jazz Band was formed
(a band which touched the peak
of pure jazz-music), Chicago had
become the Mecca of jazz-
musicians. In the same year a
new Dixieland band came to
Chicago, the New Orleans
Rhythm Kings, which played at
the Friars Inn, and the per-
sonnel of which consisted of
Paul Mares (trumpet), Leon
Rappolo (clarinet), George
Rrunies (trombone), Jack Pettis
(saxophone), Louis Black (banjo),
Steve Brown (bass), Elmer
Schoebel (piano) and Frank
Snyder (drums). Note the in-
clusion of the saxophone, an
instrument not essential to New
Orleans jazz, and one partly
responsible for the introduction
of a new style of playing known
as “the Chicago style.”
The New Orleans Rhythm
Kings, themselves brilliant jazz-
men, worshipped at the shrine
of King Oliver and his Creole
Jazz Band, which played at the
Dreamland Cafe until 1 a.m.,
then went on to the Pekin Cafe
until dawn. These jazzmen were
inexhaustible in their enthusiasm.
Their zest apd drive communi-
cated itself to many young
musicians, and their influence
helped to develop the second
generation of jazz-players.
Of this second generation one
of the most famous names is that
of Bix Beiderbecke, a cornet-
player from lowa. Bix is a
legendary figure in the history
of jazz—the sweetness of his tone
is said never to have been
equalled, the brilliance of his
musicianship an inspiration to
all who played with him or heard
him. But Bix, who died at the
age of 28, a victim of drugs and
drink, is a symbol not only of
the great era of jazz but alsoof
the decadence and defeat which
were shortly to overtake it.
Beiderbecke’s Wolverines,
formed in 1923, made records
(i Continued on page 30)


/« convinced
is better tobacco
II
a
Ok
■urn
m
WGa
»&§
WM
“With
fine
tobacco, as with fine cars,
quality always tops the field.
Capstan’s own blend of
Virginia tobaccos en-
sures a quality which
is consistently main-
tained. You will
enjoy Capstan’s
flavour, fresh frag-
rance and smooth
smoking.”
Ask everywhere for
CAPSTAN .
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACrn
340D.11.55
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Knave, surprise winner of
Canterbury Flying Handicap on
Saturday, is among the entries
for the Doncaster at the end
of March, and should the stable
decide to start him in that mile
instead of keeping him for the
rich three-year-old events he
might give a good account of
himself, because his latest per-
formance was that of a good
horse. He began well, but half-a-
dozen horses were ahead of him
at the half-mile and at the home-
turn. However, he finished with
resolution in the centre of the
track, to beat two other out-
siders, Stirrup Cup and Ace
Pilot, and the race was run in
fast time.
Gay Vista, brilliant galloper
in Sydney and Melbourne this
time last year, when he won five
races on end, finished without
dash after leading for home in
the Canterbury Flying. Out of
a place at his last four
appearances, he was successful at
Randwick in November with
9.10 and on a rain-soaked track,
when he led all the way. Per-
haps he’s had enough for the
time being. He is no back-
number yet by any means.
A stable in luck is a stable to
follow, and Rosebery mentor
Sid Lawrence, who trains
Canterbury Belmore Stakes
winner Alahvii —also a winner
at the same track a week earlier
—is on the crest of a winning-
wave. He also prepares Lord
Terrance, who has lately won at
Newcastle (twice) and at
Kembla. Thus in about three
weeks Lawrence has picked up
five races. Sid’s brother Vic,
who rides most of the horses in
their trackwork, and sometimes
in races, won a race at New-
castle on Saturday on Overlook
in the Flying.
In his absence in New
Zealand for the yearling-sales
M. McCarten left the super-
vision of his team to stable-
foreman Neville Begg, who is
in his early twenties but knows
horses well. He certainly did a
good job at Canterbury,
saddling three winners—Negare,
My Kingdom and Knave. My
Kingdom, a model of con-
sistency and winner of four
races, will now be kept for the
autumn racing at Randwick.
Cabiri was too smart for
Salador and Tedious in Caul-
field’s Juvenile Stakes on Satur-
day, his owner-breeder E. A.
Underwood and trainer Bob
Sinclair adding yet another
winner to an already formidable
list. Cabiri is by Helios (imp.)
from Purity, a mare bred in
1938 and by Melfort (imp.) from
Hall Mark’s Sister by Heroic
from Herowinkie by Cyklon
(imp.)—a notable family.
More may soon be heard
about the Sydney-owned,
Melbourne-trained costly two-
year-old colt Salador, who was
making his racing debut at
Caulfield when he beat all except
Cabiri. Salador, who finished-
on well, is New Zealand-bred,
by Gabador (imp.) from Sister
Sal, a Salmagundi (imp.) mare.
Former good Sydney sprinter
Liquid Fire had the luxury-
weight of 7.11 in Caulfield’s
Park Stakes and the further
advantage of Purtell in the
saddle. He duly landed the
money, though only mildly
fancied. However, he’s no
chicken
t „„„„
favorite for the Wellington
(NZ) floooo c (two m ii es )
b t a hone Fox
Mylh beat Sonnetar? and Cleve
Makie in race . re t ord time,
3min 21 . £C A j of seasons
ago Fox Myth won the Great
Northern Derby and the St.
Leger and more recently was
third in the £12,000 Auckland
Cup
....
Owner Keith Mackay and
trainer Fred Cush have proved a
successful winning-combination.
They had another success at
Hawkesbury when 8001 i n a
scored in a Three-year-old
Handicap. The filly is by Empy-
rean (imp.) from Green Wood,
a mare by Ensign from Jungle
Wood by The Verderer (imp.)
from Tartan Sash by Beau
Soult. Boolina had an easy task
and started at odds-on. She
comes from an old Australian
racing-family.
This year there will be more
racing in the Sydney metro-
politan area than for many years
past. Several mid-week fixtures
have been added to programmes,
and more than 20 Wednesday
meetings will take place within
the city radius. Four of these
will be at Warwick Farm, and
if the A.J.C. hopes to attract
reasonable attendances at these
fixtures patrons will need to be
assured of an early return to
the city. All Warwick Farm
Saturday meetings should finish
before 4.30 p.m.; in fact, 4.15
seems quite late enough. At
some suburban tracks the
number of horses in training is
being gradually reduced, so it
will be interesting to see how
some of the Wednesday meet-
ings work out so far as numbers
are concerned. With so much
racing coming up, it would
seem that Gosford and Wyong
clubs may be placed on lean
rations. Heavy scratchings and
small fields do not attract the
public to fixtures.
The Alister Clark Stakes of
£5150 (1| mile) will highlight
Moonee Valley’s February 18
programme. When nominations
closed, Australia’s and New
Zealand’s topliners were in the
list. Six of the entrants have
won among them nearly £200,000
in prizemoney Rising Fast,
Cromis, Wodalla, Somerset Fair,
Kingster and Plato. Caranna,
winner of the A.J.C. Derby, and
Sailor’s Guide (Victoria Derby)
are also in the entry-list. Rising
Fast is assured of the maximum
topweight, 9.7.
* * *
Two solid Inter-Dominion
trials were run at the Harold
Park meeting on Friday night.
In the fast-class Harold Park
Handicap Mineral Spring sat
close on the lead, and ran away
over the last two furlongs for a
comfortable win. In the last
race Van Hall —an old rival of
Mineral Spring from their Derby
days—put up one of the best
performances seen on the course
for a long time. Conceding
36yds. to First Variety and 24yds.
« ras
sprinted for the en P>
never less than three horses wide,
to win running gamely to tne
P»s‘ u b V. threequarters of a
length; his mile-gait was 2.Bt_
Mineral Spring and Van Hall are
both off 12yds. in the big run.
•
The first crop of two-year-
olds were given a step-out on
the same c f rd jn the heats of
tbe Youthful Stakes. In the first
heat Arch Egan jumped General
Scott away to a 10-lengths lead,
and though theTavorite, Warrior,
and Van Ray chased him des-
perately, they weren’t in it. A
robust little colt by U. Scott out
of Imperial Volo, he looks as
game as they come. The other
two get a chance to jump with
him in the final next week, but
his 2.12 for the mile suggests
they have a tough task. In the
second heat Victorian trainer
W. McKay was two lengths to
the good at the finish behind his
smart filly Clan McKay (a winner
in Victoria). Diabolo Don ran
on well for second ; Norrie was
third.
One capable pacer not getting
much publicity for the Inter-
Dominion is the recent W.A.
Trotting Cup winner Frosty
Nelson. When Bernie Cushing
brought Robert Sheen to Sydney
for the Spring Carnival, Frosty
Nelson’s trainer, Fred Hough,
asked Cushing to keep an eye
on the form of the horses present
with a view to getting a line
on his horse’s chance in the
Inter - Dominion. Cushing
reported that Illawarra Wrack
wouldn’t beat Frosty Nelson;
and Illawarra Wrack had beaten
a good sprinkling of topnotchers
in two of the three big runs at
the carnival. Following that,
Frosty Nelson started from
24yds. in the Trotting Cup (2m.),
to be first in—with a mile-gait
of 2.81.
The Sydney yacht Saskia has
won 150 races since she was
built in 1931. The 150th was
the retaining last week of the
Sayonara Cup, the Australian
yachting-championship. Saskia,
which had won the cup last
year on Port Phillip, this year
won the necessary three heats
from four sailed up and down
the Sydney coastline, the first
two heats by “runaway” wins.
Her two challengers, a Victorian
boat and a Tasmanian, have
both won the Sayonara. Saskia’s
skipper, Bill Northam, proved
himself a yachtsman of class.
* * *
One of Australia’s greatest
swimmers ever, Lorraine Crapp,
at Sydney’s Olympic Pool on
Saturday night, set a new world-
record for both the 800-metres
and 880yds. This is her third
world-record inside a week. She
swam the 800-metres in lOmin.
30.9 sec. (11.5 sec. off the previous
record) and the 880yds. in
lOmin. 34.65ec. (23.25ec. off the
record —the greatest reduction of
a world-time by a woman
swimmer). . . . Overshadowed
by Lorraine’s swim, but a good
effort, too, Murray Rose’s
clipping 4.7 sec. off his Austra-
lian 440yds. record the same
night (4min. 32.55ec., new
record).
* * *
Testimonial-matches are, by
custom, light-hearted run-get-
ting feasts. In the Hassett testi-
monial, in Melbourne in Jan-
uary, 1954, 1801 runs were
scored in all, including some 20
sixes and 189 fours. In the
Mailey-Taylor benefit, between
“Johnson’s Xl”'and “Lindwall’s
XI” in Sydney, a lot of runs
were made ; but, as it was a
testing-out of some of the tour-
candidates, there was a share
of slow, defensive play amid the
brightness.
A Westralian, Wally Lang-
don (lately returned to Perth
from a couple of seasons in the
Lancashire-league), was selected
for an Australian XI against
the M.C.C. in Sydney in Dec-
ember, 1950. A left-hand bat,
he was accounted a chance of
gaining Test-honors that year,
and for the Australian XI was
going along nicely when, at 27,
he was run-out in a misunder-
standing with Jim Burke, then
in his first season of big cricket.
Langdon, who was in the West-
ralian side then touring the
eastern States, wasn’t brought
all the way from Perth: open-
ing-batsman *ohn Rutherford,
in the Taylor-Mailey testimonial,
is the first individual West-
ralian cricketer to be so
brought for a big game in
Sydney, though Carmody was
brought to Melbourne for the
Hassett testimonial. Rutherford
justified the choice with a well-
compiled, if at times understand-
able drab, 113. He could get
the Test-honors that eluded
Langdon.
Mackay’s 143 on the first day
of the testimonial should give
him his place in the touring
side. Likewise, too, Burke
and Benaud, and Craig, whose
58, somewhat staid, followed
his excellent 145 against Queens-
land. Craig is a batsman with
the classical technique, matured,
and seems unlikely to fail again
in England. Not so classical
but aggressive and crowd-pleas-
ing (and a bit chancy) was
Benaud’s 101, in which he
failed by 14 to get a century be-
fore lunch. Benaud, despite
his failure with the bat in Tests,
is too useful an all-round
cricketer not to have been, even
had he failed with the bat in
the testimonial, a practical cer-
tainty to tour.
Looks as if W.A. will be
admitted to full participation in
the Sheffield Shield next season.
Its request, which comes before
the inter-State cricket-conference
next month, will almost certainly
be approved. The matter of
finance, the expense of sending
teams back and forth across the
Nullarbor, which was the main
obstacle to W.A.’s having a full
programme, has now, it seems,
been satisfactorily settled. Should
be good for cricket in the West
and all round.
“Bail”: Playing for Becken-
ham against Halswell in under-
-15 grade in Canterbury (N.Z.)
Cricket Association’s competi-
tion, W. Tizard carried his bat
for 73. Taking the ball, he dis-
missed the 10 Halswell batsmen
for five!
* * *
“Jock”: Softball, a “softie”
version of baseball, has caught
on in New Zealand. Both men
and women play it, and each
year sees the entry of new teams.
In Wellington alone 63 teams
play competition-matches, with
another 30 in the neighboring
Hutt Valley competition. Boys’
and girls’ teams in the capital
total 31. The game is taught in
the schools. New Zealand has
already sent a team to Australia;
but in neither Australia nor N.Z.
is the standard as high as in the
U.S., where the game was born.


There Were Some Beauts
NICKNAMES:
troops for the use of
Brooms Bass.
By LES SUCH
Tortoise.
OUT of the Army came
the nicknames. Some
of the slang wasn’t bad,
but the nicknames were
brilliant.
In our outfit we had no Dusty
Millers or Nobby Clarks —I
think they belong to the First
War—but we had Blueys and
Curleys, Darkies, Gingers,
Splinters, Leftys and Nuggets,
of course. And if we’d had a
Cotter I think he might have
been called Tibby. We did
have a Moore labelled Archie
after the boxer.
Those appendages are simple,
not like Brooms Bass, our
battery-commander from Dun-
tro o n, with a monstrous
moustache like a bass-broom.
Also, Sevenheads, Moosehead,
Crutchy Lamb, Bombo or
Throttler.
The officers suffered most.
Every officer had a nickname,
and I wonder how many of
them knew it. There was one
loot who did. Dagwood he was
called, and he was Bumstead to
a “T.” One day he rushed up
to a group of O.R.s lounging
around a tent and implored in
a rush of words: “Look, men,
everywhere I go in the lines I
hear it, ‘Dagwood, Dagwood,
here comes Dagwood.’ Blokes
poke their heads out of tents
and say ‘Dagwood.’ Out of
mess-huts, and say ‘Dagwood’;
from behind' trees and say ‘Dag-
wood.’ I’ve just about had it.
Twinkle Toes.
Give us a go and break it down
a bit!”
He was desperate, that loot.
Crutchy Lamb was a captain,
not a very popular one. I think
the country blokes must have
christened him.
There was a small loot whose
speciality was gas-lectures. He
did a good job* and was only
trying to show us how to sur-
vive in case of gas-attacks. But
the gunners didn’t like learning
about the bewildering variety of
poison-gases, and whether they
were persistent or not, and what
to do in the case of one and not
the other, so they hated him
with the hatred of kids for a
teacher, and dubbed him Little
Gas.
Another loot who in civilian
life had dabbled in amateur
dramatics was pretty to watch
when giving fire-orders. He
shifted his feet like a Shakspea-
rian actor delivering an oration.
His name was Twinkle Toes.
Then there was another small,
redskinned ginger loot who was
called the Little Red Fox. And
that fitted him too —he was foxy
all right.
Of course there was a baldy
loot, and of course he was
called Desert Head.
Another was Gloria Brown, a
small, dapper loot who was
Army-happy and striving hard
for advancement at the expense
of his popularity. A humble
tradesman in civilian life, he
was rapidly acquiring an Ox-
ford accent. Gloria was a good
name for that glamor merchant.
Oozy Woozy was the adju-
tant. You might remember the
comic-strip character in one of
the Sunday papers. The adj.
was the dead spit of him. But
I’d never have thought whom he
reminded me of.
That ? s all the officers I can
think of. I know I’m missing
some beauts, but let’s work
down the ranks.
Bombo was a driver who’d
drink anything in the liquor
line, but was particularly par-
tial to wine. Apart from his
drinking-habits, the name suited
him because he was a round
man like the roundness of the
word Bombo.
Throttler was a driver, also ;
a tough man. But nobody knew
whether his nickname derived
from throttling-up vehicles or
throttling provosts.
Dasher was another knuckle-
merchant, but a good fellow,
so instead of basher he was
Dasher.
Sevenheads was a cook, and
I don’t know where the Army
got the hat that fitted him. His
main nightmare was getting
drunk and losing it while on
leave.
Moosehead was a little bom-
bardier. The biggest part of
him also was his head, and it
looked like nothing else so
much as a moose —full-on,
three-quarters or profile.
Then we had Tortoise, a little,
dark chap who never ceased
singing cowboy songs, stretchr
Dagwood.
ing his neck like his animal
counterpart when he came to the
yodels. You should have seen
him in the turtle-neck sweater
someone sent him in a parcel.
One of the hygiene-squad was
named Fry Lambert. I found
out after a long, long time what
the connection was—lamb’s-fry.
One young gunner had parti-
cularly well-developed legs that
were unfortunately feminine in
Bootnose.
shape, like a ballet-dancer’s.
Glamor Legs!
Sgt. Pappy Willard was only
young, but the way he looked
over the top of his spectacles
and tried to father people gave
him his name.
Silver Sammy was all gold—
hair, skin and teeth, so he was
Silver, not Goldie —the same as
any sluggish bloke was Light-
ning or a sourpuss Happy.
Each nickname fitted
the owner snugly and
comfortably, like a
well-tailored suit or a
dovetailed joint. You couldn’t
fault them —or improve on
them. I know the Air Force
had some beauts, but you’d ex-
pect it from that more select and
smaller arm of the Services. And
the Navy must have had some
good ones ; I knew one homely-
faced rating who was called
Bootnose —his snout was just
like the toe of a boot. But from
that vast mixture of classes and
types, the Army, you wonder
who was responsible for the
nicknames, troops for the use of.
Moosehead.
On a Dab of Coral
By “OLD CORK”
Lady elliot island is
a dab of coral about 60
miles off the Queensland
coast, at the tail-end of the
Barrier Reef between Bqndaberg
and Gladstone. At one time it
was thickly covered with vegeta-
tion, but old guano-workings
stripped the surface off it long
ago, and in my day there were
but a few straggly pisonia-trees,
desperately holding out against
the prevailing winds.
The rest is bare, sun-bleached
coral with a short coating of
grass where a shallow dressing of
soil remains and from which the
light-station goats manage to
make a living.
Terns come ashore by the
million to rest in the early
summer. Mutton-birds also nest
there, but they are comparatively
few. When the terns have laid
(one bird, one egg), an area of
about one-third of a mile by
one-quarter is completely car-
peted with eggs, with the hens’
sides touching when they sit.
Someone might try a rough com-
putation of their numbers. When
they have been there a week the
smell is solid enough to walk on.
From early light to dusk the
terns are out over the sea wheel-
ing and diving for small fish and
apparently getting all they need.
When the egg is laid, Ma sits
most of the day, while Pa
forages and feeds her (or vice
versa, for all I know). How
each bird finds its own egg
and/or mate, if it does, is one
of Nature’s mysteries.
A few frigate-birds come with
the terns, and these make a
living from them. As a tern is
returning to land with its beak
full of fish the frigate-bird dives
on it, the tern drops its catch
and the frigate-bird con-
tinues his dive to catch the fish
often only a foot or two from
the water. I suppose there is
some element of risk in this
piracy; sometimes half-a-dozen
terns will band together and
harry a frigate-bird for a half-
mile or so.
The gulls, however, get their
harvest from the terns without
even having to work for it.
There is a resident colony of
them, at Lady Elliot, some
hundreds in number. I doubt if
they ever leave it, or whether
newcomers ever settle there.
They seem to make a fair
living all the year round and
they work hard for it —until the
terns’ eggs begin to hatch. After
that they sit back for a long
vacation and fat living and
hardly ever take the air.
The tern-chicks, dirty-brown,
yellow-striped and rather ugly
little creatures, congregate on the
top of coral banks near the sea
and the gulls mingle with them.
If you walk among them, or try
to, they scuttle down the beach
into the sea and spread-out.
They wait for you to pass and
then return, so that as you walk
round the island you have a
carpet of down moving away
before you and closing in
behind.
Ma and Pa tern both now take
a hand in the foraging, and all
day there is a constant stream
of terns going out empty and
coming back full, to land and
ram a couple of small fish down
a greedy gullet.
As soon as the tern takes wing
again, Mr. Gull, who has been
watching, grabs the chick by the
back of the neck. The chick, no
doubt following an age-old
instinct, immediately disgorges
what it has just swallowed. Mr.
Gull leisurely picks up and
swallows the free feed, and
toddles towards the next victim.
The adult terns make no effort
to protect their offspring and
completely ignore the gulls.
As the chicks move about
quite a hit, it is even more of
a mystery how the parents find
their own offspring—if they do.


■ Wmm
mmm
'::-yy : iy' : .Y.;':y'<^ : '' : ' ■■ >Y y/ :
,
mmm
:
m
Holden has all the features
that mean most to you
Because Holden is designed and
! built specifically for Australian
conditions, no other car combines
all its advantages at such low cost.
For from £B7O plus sales tax, Holden gives
you a 6-cylinder, 21 h.p. engine; out-
standing economy (30 m.p.g. is reported by
many owners); proven dependability and
low maintenance costs; Australia-wide
availability of spare parts; high resale
value; clean good looks and comfort for a
family of six.
Ever since Holden was first produced,
hundreds of owners have written spon-
taneous letters of satisfaction.
From Armadale, W.A., Mr. H. M.
Paterson wrote:
“• • . I feel you are justly entitled to this
little note of my experience over nearly
70,000 miles of very pleasurable motoring ...
The car has been over a large part of our
country roads and tracks and has given
unfailing satisfaction under all conditions . . .
The car is driven hard all the year round,
and one of its most pleasing features has been
its capacity to retain performance without
continual tinkering and adjustment. . .
I know of nothing within £5OO to £6OO of the
price to equal my Holden for all round
performance and safety on any road . .
More Australians buy Holden than any
other make simply because Holden offers
the best value for money there is on the
Australian car market.
The demand for Holden continues to be
heavy, so may we suggest that you place
your order as soon as possible.
HOLDEN *
Australia's Own Car
LIST PRICES FROM £B7O PLUS TAX
* REGISTERED TRADE MARK
•Convenient GMAC hire purchase
arrangements are available.
•“Air Chief” car radio is specially
designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KIIV Kim
stMllv
SANDERS#
mfeXWis
Correspondence* invoices,
statements* etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted info a
perfect book of reference a!
the end of each month—-Or
Prices sad fur*
ther information
upon application
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE ,1
ADELAIDE J
PERTH *
Norman Bros. Ply. U 4
Vardon Price ltd.
Oaoket Boe* Ca.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIDDLE EAST FERMENT
on what it
described as an “overdue”
Commons debate on the Middle
East situation; London “Daily
Telegraph” summed -up the
“main facts”:
“Russian mischief-making in
Europe, short of war, has tem-
porarily exhausted its benefits
for the Kremlin, and the Com-
munist world has therefore
turned its attention to more
promising openings in the
Middle and the Far East.,
“There it found Egypt and
the other Arab States smarting
under their defeat at the hands
of Israel seven years ago and
prevented from trying a second
round by the Tripartite Declara-
tion of 1950, which ensures
that Britain, the United States
or France shall not upset a
certain equilibrium of arma-
ments. What could be simpler
than to upset it by Communist
armaments?”
Describing the Commons
debate as not having “added
much in the way of solutions to
a singularly tangled situation,”
London “Spectator” comments
that “Soviet intervention in the
Near East has faced the British
and American Governments
with the urgent necessity of
lining-up some sort of organisa-
tion of the States in the area to
form a common front against
the threat”:
“This they have tried to do
with some success by means of
the Baghdad Pact; and the
adhesion of Jordan —if the
present political uncertainty in
that country is satisfactorily
resolved—will mark a consider-
able step towards the achieve-
ment of their aims. But then
there is Israel. For better or
for worse the West could not
see a Western State created by
Great Britain wiped-out, but it
is nevertheless highly inconveni-
ent that the Arabs should regard
Israel as the enemy rather than
the Soviet Union.”
On the Israel problem, the
“Spectator” holds that “the first
thing is to stabilise the present
frontiers”:
“As long as the Arab States
believe that there is the remotest
chance of destroying Israel, their
attention will be focused by
every slight change in the situa-
tion that might mean an oppor-
tunity. This should be stopped
by the conclusion of an Anglo-
Israeli defence-pact on the lines
of the arrangement we [Britain]
have with Jordan. A modicum
of arms and a fpm alliance
would discourage the Arabs
from playing the role of an
anticipatory Brer Fox to Israel’s
Brer Rabbit. Nor could it be
called embarking on an arms-
race, since it would not be a
question of supplying arms to a
foreign Power but to an ally, in
whose policies Great Britain
might consequently expect to
have some say.”
London “Time and Tide,”
also not particularly enthusiastic
about the outcome of the
Commons debate, suggests that
“the peoples of the Middle East,
though some of their leaders
have played and are playing
with fire, do not want
Communism”:
“At the height of Axis pene-
tration of the same area 15
years ago, they did not ‘want
Nazism —or Fascism.’ They
were impelled —or rather, a
different set of leaders playing
with a slightly different kind of
fire, were impelled— to seek the
dangerous favors of two Powers
which they believed to be
strong, and stronger than
Britain. Until the Battle of
El Alamein they had some
ground for that belief.
“But after that dire experience
of the years 1936-41 Britain
London “Daily Mail”
ROOFTOP RIVALRY
and the United States would be
foolish indeed—and would be
wronging the peoples of the
Middle East —to let the situation
deteriorate to a similar
extremity.
“The Soviet Union is playing
an ambitious but delicately-
poised game. Her leaders have
succeeded in forcing Pakistan
into diplomatic isolation and
have subjected her to a ferocious
propaganda-assault.
“Further to the West Israel
is already diplomatically isolated
and the Arab nations conduct
their own propaganda-assault;
Russia’s interest is served simply
by keeping the pot stirred. The
British Government has reached
the quite proper conclusion that
in a settlement of the Arab-
Israel dispute lies what hope
there is of resolving the Middle
East crises.
“It is her [Britain’s] way of
trying to achieve the settlement
that—as yet—seems far from
satisfactory, and, as expounded
in the House of Commons, gives
a certain air of unreality to our
present Middle East policy.”
U.N.’s New Members
Press comments on the
“package-deal” which brought
16 new members into the United
Nations :
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“Disappointment oyer the
temporary exclusion of Japan
from the list of those admitted
to the United Nations should not
obscure the real gains. The
original notion of Canada was
that all the countries of the world
should be admitted at one stroke,
with the exception of those, like
Switzerland, which pursue a
strict policy of neutrality or, like
Korea and Germany, are still
divided. This has been fulfilled
—with the single genuine and
glaring exception of Japan.
“The United Nations is en-
riched by 12 free countries —
Jordan, Ireland, Portugal, Italy,
Austria, Finland, Ceylon, Nepal,
Libya, Cambodia, Laos, Spain.
The ideal of universal member-
ship has, moreover, been dramati-
cally advanced. The international
organisation is today a more
representative body, better able
to fulfil its destiny of being the
meeting-place where all the prob-
lems of all the nations, insofar
as their relations with one
another are concerned, can be
fully debated.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide” : “In
practical terms the Russians have
acquired four new and reliable
members of their U.N. team and
the Western team has benefited
to about the same extent. The
other eight new boys will add
strength to the increasingly active
Arab-Asian group, which does
not always bestow its favors
upon the West.
“Perhaps we may .see here one
of the reasons for * the recent
Russian approaches to the
peoples of the Middle East. We
must in any case brace ourselves
for the possibility that, on issues
closely affecting Asia and the
Middle East, the Russians may
be able to rally a majority. We
must certainly expect that next
year Communist China will be
in the centre of the membership
battle.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “The
Japanese naturally followed the
detailed course of the U.N.
debates closely, and did not fail
to note either the naked Soviet
discrimination against them or
the repeated American efforts to
circumvent it. Reports from
Tokyo suggest that the press and
public have quickly recognised
where the real responsibility for
their exclusion from U.N.O. lies.
If this is so, it is both a tribute
to Japanese level-headedness, and
a warning to the Russians that
their cynical tactics of exploiting
every chance to arouse anti-
Americanism can sometimes be
overdone.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The more accurately the
Assembly reflects the contor-
tions of the contemporary
world, the less admirable is its
behavior likely to be. The six
new members of the Afro-Asian
bloc, coupled with the four new
Iron Curtain members, will
enable the anti-colonial vote to
ride roughshod over the Charter
provision against interference in
the internal affairs of member-
States. Although the West will
welcome and gain strength from
such recruits as Austria and
Italy, the total contents of the
‘package’ which Russia has so
unexpectedly unwrapped may
turn out to be a mixed blessing.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
admission of four Soviet satel-
lites makes the exclusion of
Communist China all the more
indefensible, since she is a
powerful force with which the
rest of the world must come to
terms. The practical advan-
tages of having Communist
China on the spot are very great,
particularly in case of trouble


Put youiself in this
Track operator’s
shoes!
The smart truck operator has the right truck
for the right job! He doesn’t use a sledge hammer
to crack walnuts, and he doesn’t send a 30 cwt.
truck when a 12 cwt. will do the job faster, more
economically.
Many fleet owners find new operating economies
never before thought possible in the big line-up
of International Trucks.
International lightweight line-up gives you lower
first cost, lower fuel costs, low all-round operating
it
costs on a wide range of operations in city and
country hauling.
Every truck in the famous International family
has all the heavy-duty engineered features and
long life performance that sets International ahead
of every other make. Compare each model for
value, feature by feature then you must buy
International.
See the ‘all truck’ lightweights by International at
your local IH dealer today and put yourself
in the smart operator’s shoes.
‘ —f
tt
AR’ll2, 127" w.b.j with, drop side body. Featuring
low-loading for easy transfer of goods; long semi-
elliptic springs for heavy loads smooth-riding,
proven duo-servo brakes for positive safety.
'l/ e-A
588
AR-110 Utility, with 115" w.b., 12 cwt. capacity.
Features include 100 max. H.P. engine for heavy
loads, three speed transmission for more usable
power, new wide angle windscreen for all-round
vision, and natural angle steering ensures comfort,
lessens fatigue.
■
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY # LTD.
District sales offices all Capital cities.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
~. THE WORLD'S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT FMT7O7/3(
about Formosa, which is likely
to recur at any time. She will
take no heed of a body from
which she is excluded, and her
credentials are no worse than
those of several other countries.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian" : “The
continued exclusion of China
and Japan now stands out
starkly, the former’s because of
the refusal of a spectral China
of the past to yield up the
chair; and the latter’s because
of a reprisal by Russia for the
spectral China’s veto upon
Outer Mongolia. Though much
of mankind has now been
brought in, excluded China and
Japan have several times the
total population of the newly-
admitted States.”
Soviet Satellites
Edinburgh “Scotsman” assess-
ment of “various indications in
the past few months of unrest
in the Soviet satellite countries”:
“Some evidence of resistance
to the Communist regime is to
be found in the intense propa-
ganda-drive for increased agri-
cultural production, which im-
plies that collectivisation, having
met with a good deal of peasant
resistance, has not been a
success. But this is partly a
technical problem, which might
occur in any country undergoing
a great industrial expansion.
“Perhaps the strongest indica-
tion of the Russian failure to
win the allegiance of the satellites
is to be found in the decision not
to regard East Germany as ‘ex-
pendable,’ as it seemed for a
time that the Russian leaders
might decide to do. If East Ger\
many were freed the effect on
her neighbors would be incal-
culable. The pull of freedom
would outweigh any hostile feel-
ings over the territories which
are implicitly in dispute between
Poland and Germany, and by
means of which Russia might
hope to bind Poland to her.
“Though conditions in the
satellites vary widely, the general
tendency has been to follow the
Russian emphasis on the im-
provement of living-conditions
and the abandonment of the
more grotesque features of
Stalinist tyranny. No reversion
to Stalinism has occurred, and
there is little doubt that in minor
ways things have improved.
“The effect of improvements,
however, and particularly of
granting minor liberties, is not
to produce gratitude but to in-
crease the demand for freedom,
which cannot be measured-out
in doses.
“At Geneva Mr. Molotov
more-or-less confessed that he
did not trust either his own or
the satellite peoples to resist the
voices of freedom. Russia can-
not afford to be liberal.”
"Flags of
Convenience"
modation address for a registered
office in Panama or Monrovia
[Liberia], for example, is all that
is required. Of obligations there
are none, since these countries
do not have any body of ship-
ping-legislation and are signa-
tories to very few, if any, of the
international maritime-conven-
tions.”
International - sanctions, in-
surance-requirements and port-
regulations, Duff continues, bind
owners of these ships to observe
the normal safety-precautions;
the advantages of their foreign
registration “are, briefly, mainly
fiscal and partly operational, but
almost exclusively the result of
restrictive legislation on the part
of the traditionally and naturally
maritime countries”:
“The operational advantages
concern mainly the high-wage
countries such as the United
States. An American oil-com-
pany, or independent tanker-
owner, for example, may well
find it profitable to build his
ship abroad at half the price,
without subsidy, and operate it
with non-American crews at
international wage-levels, to all
intents and purposes on a normal
competitive basis in international
trading.”
Taking further examples, Duff
adds that “the owner of a ship
registered in the United King-
dom or Norway, to take perhaps
the two worst examples, is taxed
up to the hilt. The owner of a
ship registered in the United
States,or Greece, to take two
further extreme examples, is so
hedged about with restrictions
that he is not free to compete in
the international shipping-
market. The owner of a ship
Commenting in London
“Financial Times” on the appear-
ance of more and more ships
registered in Panama and
Liberia, Peter Dhff, editor of
“The Shipping World,” notes
that the tonnage of ships flying
the Panama flag has increased
from 722,000 tons before the war
to approximately four-million
tons today. Liberia has a
registered merchant-fleet of over
three-million tons compared with
an almost negligible tonnage
before the war, and “over 8 per
cent, of all merchant-shipping
under construction throughout
the world is intended for Liberian
registry.”
Setting down the reasons for
the phenomenal growth of these
fleets under “flags of conveni-
ence,” Duff notes that “Registra-
tion of ships in any of these
countries, such as Panama,
Liberia, Honduras or Costa Rica,
is a mere formality”:
“The payment of a nominal
fee, together with an accom-
registered in Panama or Liberia,
on the other hand, pays little or
no tax and is free from legislative
restriction.”
The dangers of this trend are
obvious. There is, Duff adds,
“nothing unethical” about such
foreign registration, but to the
maritime countries of Western
Europe it means declining fleets,
Paris “Presse-L’Intransigeant”
ARMS-RACE—FRENCH VIEW
declining income, strategic war-
time weakness and, inevitably,
a loss of revenue for the taxa-
tion authorities.
A solution to the problem is
“not easy”:
“As far as British shipowners
ar£ concerned, either they can
appeal, with little chance of
success, for their Government to
put them in the same fiscal posi-
tion as their new rivals, or they
must adopt the same practices,
“So far as the strategic side
is concerned, there seems to be
no reason why they should not
register their ships in such
British colonies as Bermuda,
Malta or Hong Kong, as some
have already done. In this way
they could possibly avoid fiscal
restrictions, while retaining
patriotic obligations.
“Either way, the Chancellor
of the Exchequer cannot much
longer delay the choice between
loss of revenue from the taxation
of shipping or loss of invisible-
export earnings.”
Eden's U.S. Visit
As scheduled, Sir Anthony
Eden is due to visit President
Eisenhower this month.
The purpose of the Eden-
Eisenhower talks is, as New
York “Herald Tribune” puts it,
“not to create unity but to
further it; not to create new
policy, but to make whatever
readjustments and concentrations
may be necessary to meet the
problems raised by the newest
Soviet moves”:
“What those problems are is
not secret. Soviet Russia’s in-
cursion into the Middle East
is of the gravest concern to the
Western nations, and though
Britain and America are united
on the need for maintaining
peace in the area, their views as
to the most efficacious approach
may vary somewhat. Similarly,
there are questions relating to
the Communist manoeuvres in
Berlin, the effects of the Khrush-
chev-Bulganin swing through
Asia and other matters as well
which wifi profit from a full and
frank discussion among Presi-
dent Eisenhower, Prime Minister
Eden and their advisers.”
To which the Baltimore
(U.S.A.) “Sun” adds that “it is
time for the two great English-
speaking countries to get their
ducks in a row again”:
“A joint line of action that
may be good enough for the
smiling days of July and August
is not necessarily the right joint
line of action for the blustery
Weather that set in at the time
of this autumn’s Geneva meet-
ing and has continued ever since.
“This is no good season for
Britain and the United States —
who differ so frequently in
matters of tactics and expediency
and matters of secondary
national interest, but do not
differ at all on what matters
most to find themselves work-
ing at cross-purposes.”


Industrial Acceptance
Corporation ltd.
Registered FIRST MORTGAGE Debenture Stock
LONG
§
INTEREST
6!&%
6%
51/ 2 %
CURRENCY
10 & 15 years
4 to 9 years
3 years
5%
INTEREST
■■ \ y
5%
m%
4%
33/4%
3!4%
CURRENCY
24 months
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
Interest per annum, payable quarterly free of
exchange
ASSETS EXCEED £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
and all Branches of the-
E., S. & A. BANK LTD.
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE
ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER & CO., MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY
IAC.G
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months* subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—-
NAME
ADDRESS •
12 months £1/16/—
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
Empire
Foreign .... ££/19/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
the grave of those who had died,
the natives from the old mission.
“What did they die of?”
“They starve. Not enough to
eat. Cough all a time. Then ’e
die. They bury ’im in a sand.
Not enough people left bury ’im
deep. No spades.”
He decided it was too far to
go to show me this landmark of
tragedy. The mission had tried
to gather together the remnants
of five tribes on Cape Yorke
Peninsula who were begging a
living round mining-camps and
cattle - stations. They had
brought them in, but the mission
had fallen on evil days.
“All feller die. White man’s
tucker no good. Little bit
flour, tea.”
There had been an epidemic
during the war, and though the
Americans had sent two doctors
from Iron Range, there had been
forty deaths. Others had been
found to be riddled with T.B.
They moved the settlement.
“And what about this grave
here?” I asked, pointing down
at the whitened rib-bones. 1
“That,” Billy said, surpris-
ingly, “is the grave of the rich
men.”
TTIS voice was suddenly strong
and deep. He got down
from his horse and motioned me
to do the same. He picked up
a rib-bone. “Dugong,” he said
proudly.
I had taken it for granted that
these were human bones.
“No, dugong.”
The people, every time they
killed a dugong, had brought
the bones and piled them for a
memorial over the grave of the
great hunters. They buried here
the men who were most
respected of the tribe.
“These feller,” Billy said,
“rich men. Not rich by money.
They strong good spears.
Rich by wallaby, turtle, dugong.
This thing I tell,” he meditated,
trying to find the right words.
“These rich men, strong hunters,
they say: ‘Do not forget our
law. Do not forget.’ I tell the
young men. We need a
thousand-pounds for the Co-
operative. But if we have a
thousand-pounds we not rich
the way these men were rich.”
The white bones of the
dugong that admirers had piled
up as a memorial to the hunters
lay half-buried in the sand.
The mangroves in the swamps
glittered, and the great stretches
of water over the reef seemed
to drink in the light until light
and water were one. Between
the land and the sea we stood,
holding our horses, by the grave
of the rich men.
Billy, who is an elder of the
church as well as a song-man
and a cattle-councillor, crossed
himself. So I crossed myself,
too, and we prayed for .the rich
men who had died in their
heathen strength.
“Another thing I tell you,”
Billy said. “These men rich by
dugong, wallaby, turtle, they
rich by wives. Five wives!
Nobody rich like that now.” He
shook his head. Not only meat,
but think of all the yams those
five wives could dig! The lily-
bulbs, the sugar-bag, the nuts
and berries! “Rich men,” Billy
repeated reverently, as we got on
our horses.
“But why didn’t the people
who died of starvation make an
effort to save themselves?” I
asked. “Why did they starve?
These rich men had dugong and
turtle and wallaby, but these
others did nothing for them-
selves. The dugong and turtle
were still there. Why didn’t
they get bush tucker?”
Billy shook his head. “Too
sad. It rains all the time.”
When I left Billy I pfessed a
pound-note into his hand. He is
the chief man among the cattle-
councillors, but his wages are
only a pound a week and keep.
Nobody starved now at Lock-
hart River Mission. The com-
munity-centre where the children
had their meals had a 25-cubic-
foot refrigerator, the stores came
regularly, and there was iron-
tonic in the milk.
I told one of the engineers
that I had tipped Billy a pound
and he told me I was a sucker.
The cattlemen had their rations
and their tobacco, their issue of
clothes.
“Billy’s quite well off,” he
assured me.
for Gennett which were later to
influence a whole school of jazz-
recordings, particularly those of
Red Nichols in New York. They
also influenced a band of five
boys from Chicago’s Austin
High School who had first been
led to jazz by a record they
heard of the New Orleans
Rhythm Kings. Their names
became famous in the world of
jazz: Jim Lannigan, Jimmy and
Dick McPartland, Bud Freeman
and Frank Teschmaker. Later
they became identified with the
Wolverine band themselves, and
the Chicago style, with its
smoother, sweeter tone than true
New Orleans jazz, was estab-
lished.
Contributing to the brilliance
of the jazz scene in Chicago at
this time was Louis Armstrong,
the great negro trumpeter who
had been summoned from New
Orleans by Papa Oliver and who
found his first appointment with
the Creole Jazz Band at the
Dreamland. It is said that
nothing has ever been heard in
jazz so astonishing as the scintil-
lating “breaks” of King Oliver
and Louis Armstrong, when at
the appropriate moment they
would step forward together
and, without rehearsal or con-
sultation, pour forth profuse
strains of the most intricate and
invigorating art.
By now New York was
beckoning, for it was in Tin
Pan Alley that the world of
America’s published music was
centred, and it was there, so it
seemed to musicians throughout
the continent, that the chance
of fame, as well as money, lay.
Louis Armstrong went to
New York early and played with
the orchestra of Fletcher
Henderson, a large orchestra
playing from arranged scores.
Armstrong made records with
this band, but it is the recorded
music he made at this time with
smaller groups, the Hot Five
and the Hot Seven, which is
prized today by collectors.
The spirit of New York was
very different from that of New
Orleans or Chicago. '‘Tin Pan
Alley, its ‘ street of music-
publishers, set as a criterion the
ability of any type of music to
earn money, not whether it was
worth while. Everything had
to be big and impressive. Paul
Whiteman, who styled himself
“The King of Jazz” in electric
lights, had an orchestra of 30
members, tiers and tiers of
musicians, all playing music
carefully arranged.
The trumpet had replaced the
cornet by this time, perhaps be-
cause of the greater ringing
quality of its tone, but perhaps,
too, because the cornet was too
insignificant an instrument for
so showy a display.
As radio grew in popularity
and stretched out to far-away
audiences who had never heard
real jazz, the Tin Pan Alley
men served a steady diet of
sweet, simple, sentimental songs,
known in the trade as “schmalz.”
This appealed to the widest
audience. This made the most-
money. Therefore this was what
was preferred to the astringent,
vigorous intricacies of jazz.
It was in New York that jazz
met its defeat. Jazz-musicians
were artists, finding in the music
free expression, taking inspira-
tion from their fellow-musicians
and even from the dancers, who,
in turn, were being stimulated
by their music. They could not
accommodate themselves to the
new, hard, money-making way
of music-making. A few made
terms with the changed condi-
tions, but many, including Bix
Beiderbecke and King Oliver,
withered in the chill wind of
commercialism and died in
poverty.
By the beginning of the
’thirties jazz was dwindling, and
with the repeal of Prohibition,
the closing of the speakeasies
and the opening of the big,
opulent flashy dance-halls, the
°f® ded a , smal1 ’
closely-integrated group to pro-
d «* * and flourished best in
small, smoke-filled rooms where
the dancers were at one with the
, , , , . . c ,
d a ”d the musicians fed one
inscMoT torirfwhfch had
inspiration, the art which had
expressed m vibrant tones the
s Phit °f an age, appeared to
have run its course, and so died
away -
11 * s nearly 20 years since
J azz suffered this eclipse, and
the centre of the stage has been
taken by “ swin g” This has
been described a s “the cancer
at tbe beart i azz >” because,
having none of the essential
qualities of jazz, it has confused
the public mind about the nature
of the music.
The swing that Benny Good-
man popularised in the middle-
’thirties stems from the false
: azz of the j a t e ’twenties which
tQok oyer the Q repert oire
and made no attempt to follow
, ne2ro interoretation Music
harmonised care-
Xved af a
|. uI Y scored ana played at a
lively pace. But there was none
complexity and spon-
taneity which marked the true
J T , t
Louis Armstrong, whose name
runs like a theme through the
history of jazz, seems to many
to have brought about a com-
promise of the big band with
jazz, but what he has done is to
play as a brilliant trumpeter
with an accompaniment of a big
band. Though in his early days,
as an indispensable part of the
small band, he played with the
true jazzman’s collective
creativeness, since the change to
swing he has played as an
individualist,
Some authorities speak
severely and sadly of Louis
Armstrong as though he were
the lost leader, the man who
could have carried true iazz
tordugh but who Smoromised
sliH Armstronl haf suSd
. nas survived,
and with tne renaissance of iazz
he may still return to the genuine
New Orleans type of music with
which he erew un
.. s p ‘ . t ,
At present wonderful long-
playing records are being made
of the masterpieces of the
’twenties, and now it’s expected
that recruits to the only true
jazz, the New Orleans and the
Dixieland variety, will soon
come flocking in. Perhaps some
of them will come from Coota-
mundra.
THE UNICORN
Old Fosdick brings the mulch of straw.
He tells a tale to charm my heart,
though reason says: Be sceptical
when those exotic half-truths start!
He tells that once he lived in a town,
his mind confused with brindled light——
one moment clear as a bit of glass
washed clean, the next like smuts of night
sprinkled over the afternoon,
freckling the unastonished sun;
so he picked himself out of that place
where swags are frowned upon.
High on a hill he cleared the scrub
and set his urns and orchids there
till unicorn and bunyip came
to breathe the mortal air.
Then bunyip and Fosdick sat in the sun
while moonshine’s ceremonious beast
struck dazzling hoofbeats, dancing for
two creatures townsmen like the least.
N.s.w.
MARGARET IRVIN.


OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known—
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3i ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
804 - 308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Missing Friends
RE WTLLIAM BUTTERICK deceased late
of Maynard House, Newport Road, North
Cave, in the County of York, whose estate
became divisible after the death of
MARY BUTTERICK, his widow, who
died on the 11th July, 1947.— W1LL
any person who can give information as
to the present whereabouts of THOMAS
BUTTERICK and/or ALBERT BUI-
- (or their families), formerly of
North Cave, in the East Hiding of the
County of York, who are believed to have
emigrated to Australia many years ago,
and are the brothers of the above de-
ceased, who died on the 25th January,
1936, please communicate with LxJNon
& MacDONALD, Solicitors, 360 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
MACINTOSH.
INFORMATION is desired regarding
ALLAN MACINTOSH, who, when last
heard of, was in New South Wales, and
who is a son of WILLIAM P. MACIN-
TOSH. If the said ALLAN MACINTOSH
will communicate with the undersigned
he might hear something to his advan-
tage. Anyone having information regard-
ing the said ALLAN MACINTOSH or nw
representatives might please communicate
with the undersigned.—T. F. REID &
DONALDSON, Solicitors, Paisley, Scot-
land.
FtUlli in th e
Fuiurc
*
\
My proudest moments as an Australian abroad
were when people said to me: “You have a grand
country. I would like to see it some day.
It would please me very much to welcome
to my homeland the many hospitable people 1
met in my travels —bankers, industrialists, men
working on equipment in the field and in factories.
I wish I could return some of the abundant help
and kindness they showed in receiving me and
taking me into their homes. It was the same
wherever I went in America.
Even beyond the warm circles that spread
from personal meeting, interest in us as a nation
and as a race is constantly growing; and the
inquiry I met about all things Australian leads
me to ask whether we yet realise what a tourist
potential this country has.
In tourism you re-sell the product again and
again without ever diminishing it. I use the word
“sell” with due respect to the value of travel m
bringing people in friendship together. But the
fostering of a tourist traffic is, in fact, a sale.
And it entails more than publicity and transport:
It calls for the best in standards of accommodation.
A conference of the Pacific Area Travel
Association met at San Francisco recently to
promote tourism in the part of the world to which
Australia belongs.
One proposal from the conference was that a
research organisation should study countries where
hotel accommodation is insufficient to meet world
tourist requirements.
Australia would come within the sweep of
such a survey. With the demand of housing and
commercial building since the war, we have been
unable to match the natural wonders and beauties
of our country with enough good tourist hotels.
Yet, to me, their provision would be both a
sensible ’investment and another way of saying to
the world that we have Faith in Australia.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To contact other Caruso fans.
—6250.
Words and author of verse
beginning: —
Old iron tanks rolling under,
Sent to sea with hope
That never to port they will return
again.
Staggering blindly on the main,
Wondering where they will be
At the break of day.
—6247.
To buy copy of The World as
Will and Idea (Die Welt als Wille und
Vorstellung), by Arthur Schopen-
hauer.—-6252.
To buy copy of* a book about
Bully Hayes, the pirate. —6253.
To buy copy of Wells of Beer-
sheba, by F. Dalby Davison.—62sl.
Information Supplied
Regarding the request for informa-
tion on the derivation of “Ironbark”
in “Banjo” Paterson’s “The Man
from Ironbark,” Mr. A. B. Mac-
Culloch, of Tullamore (N.S.W.),
writes: “The late Robert Hamilton
Paterson, first-cousin of ‘Banjo,’
told me that he was ‘The Man,’ and
that Stuart Town, on the western
line, was then known as ‘lronbark.’
The occasion was when Bob Pater-
son, with an outsize in beards,
arrived in Sydney. Further, Bob
Paterson was the ‘Mulga Bill from
Eaglehawk.’ ”
Information Sought
What is the objective of the Council
of Europe ?
The objective of the Council of
Europe is contained in Article 1 of
the Statute of the Council: “(a) The
aim of the Council of Europe is to
achieve a greater unity between its
members for the purpose of safe-
guarding and realising the ideals and
principles which are their common
heritage and facilitating their
economic and social progress. (b)
This aim shall be pursued through
the organs of the Council by discus-
sion of questions of common concern
and by agreements and common
action in economic, social, cultural,
scientific, legal and administrative
matters and in the maintenance and
further realisation of human-rights
and fundamental freedoms. t (c) Par-
ticipation in the Council of Europe
shall not affect the collaboration of
its members in the work of the
United Nations and of other inter-
national organisations or unions to
which they are parties, (d) Matters
relating to national defence do not
fall within the scope of the Council
of Europe.”
**,*«■
(1) When was the first railway-
bridge across the Hawkesbury River
(N.S.W.) built? (2) Who built it?
(3) Which is the oldest railway-bridge
in N.S.W. ?
(1) The contract for construction
of the bridge was signed on May 24,
1886. Sinking of the first pier was
started in December that year, and
the last one was bottomed on May
11, 1888. The first span was
floated-in on May 25, 1888, and the
last on March 1, 1889. The bridge
was tested on April 23-24, 1889, and
opened on May 1, 1889. (2) Con-
tractors were Union Bridge Co., of
New York, who sublet various opera-
tions: Arrol and Co., of Glasgow,
fabricated the superstructure; the
caissons were made by Head Wright-
son and Co., of England; sinking of
the caissons was done b'y Anderson
and Barr, of New York; masonry-
work was by Samuel, of Sydney; and
erection and spacing of spans by
Ryland and Morse, of New York.
(3) The bridge at Menangle, opened
for traffic on July 1, 1863.
* * * *
What causes honey to candy ?
Some information?
Honey candies because it is a very
strongly-concentrated sugar-solution,
and over a period some of the sugar
goes into suspension. Honey consists
of approximately 75 p.c. invert-sugar
(which is about 41 p.c. levulose and 34
p.c. dextrose). In addition, approxi-
mately 2 p.c. sucrose is usually
present. The moisture-content of
honey varies with nectar-supplies,
seasons, and localities, but is gener-
ally 17-20 p.c. The proportions
of sucrose, dextrose and levulose
vary with the initial source of supply
and treatment. When most honeys
are kept for some time, particularly
in cold situations, it is usual for a
quantity of the dextrose to granulate.
Solubility of dextrose is less at low
temperatures. Stirring or agitation
of any kind increases the spread of
crystallisation. Honey which has
candied (granulated) may be liquefied
by heating. Where it is desired to
liquefy granulated-honey, it is usual
to heat to 140deg.-150deg. F. Exces-
sive heating will cause caramelisation
of the sugars and a darkening in
color. Some honeys candy very
rapidly at normal temperatures, and
others may never candy naturally.
In the case of special candied-honey
and creamed-honey, a technique is
used to control granulation so that
it will be rapid, and the product will
be fine-grained and of uniform
consistency.
* * * *
Some information on the referen-
dum of 1951 on powers to deal with
the Communists ?
On September 22, 1951, people
were asked to vote on a proposed,
law to alter the Constitution by
inserting after Section 51 a provision
that “the Parliament shall have
powers to make such laws for the
peace, order and good government of
the Commonwealth with respect to
Communists or Communism as the
Parliament considers to be necessary
or expedient for the defence or
security of the Commonwealth or for
the execution or maintenance of this
Constitution or of the laws of the
Commonwealth” and, specifically,
that it should have power to make a
law in the terms of the Communist
Party Dissolution Act (1950) or with
alterations “with respect to a matter
dealt with by the Act or with respect
to some other matter with respect to
which the Parliament has power to
make laws.” Of the 4,754,589 who
went to the polls, 2,317,927 voted for
the alteration to the Constitution,
2,370,009 against.
Brief Answers
M.V.A.: (1) It is necessary to claim
for paragraphs. (2), (3) and (4)
Writers and Artists’ Year Book,
obtainable at most booksellers ....
TK.: Will Ogilvie’s “How We Won
the Ribbon” is in the Bulletin
Reciter.... E.L.T.: (1) Cannot give
names of contributors who use pen-
names. (2) There is no mystery; he
is well and truly alive 8.D.: (1)
The gauge of a railway is the distance
between rail-heads on the running or
inside of the rails at a point fin.
below the running-surfaces. (2)
N S.W. railway-lines reached the
State borders at these places in these
years—Albury, 1881; Wallangarra,
1888; Corowa, 1892; Tocumwal,
1914; Mungindi, 1914; Border Loop,
1930 Boggabilla, 1932... J.A.R.: (1)
William H. Harrison (1773-1841) was
the oldest U.S. President (68) at time
of election. Harrison also served the
shortest term; he died within a month
of taking office, in 1841. (2)
Youngest U.S. President on election
was Theodore Roosevelt, 42, in 1901.
. ...E.8.8.: (1) Following, the areas
in square miles: N.S.W., 309,433;
Vic., 87,884; S.A., 380,070; Qld.,
670,500; W.A., 975,920; Tas.,
26,215; Northern Territory, 523,620;
A.C.T., 939. (2) At June 30, 1955, a
total of 17,959,336 acres of the State
was unoccupied. This included
public reservations, roads, rivers and
lake-beds v A small proportion of the
area was occupied under the Forestry
and Mining Acts. (3) The areas held
as forest- and timber-reserves were
2,261,161 acres and 5,332,482 acres
respectively... .R.M.M.: Owing to
large demand, the C.5.1.R.0. Central
Experimental Workshops Report,
“The Design and Construction of
Solar Water Heaters,” by R. N.
Morse (which gives details of the
design of the heater developed in the
workshops), has been exhausted. It
is anticipated that a further report
will be issued later this year, and a
copy will be sent to you. A copy of
the present report may be seen in
Brisbane at the Public Library or the
C.5.1.R.0. Plant and Soils Labora-
tory, George-street F.G.: (1) The
article entitled “Better Houses for
Less,” by G. F. Middleton, appeared
in The Bulletin of Aug. 17, 1955.
(2) Build Your House of Earth
J.C.P.: All That Swagger was written
by Miles Franklin... .C.T.: Australia
in the War of 1939-45, edited by
Gavin Long; Official History of
Australia in the War of 1914-18 (12
vols.), edited by C. E. W. Bean; and
F. M. McGuire’s The Royal Aus-
tralian Navy R.K.Y.: French West
Africa comprises the following terri-
tories : Senegal, French Sudan,
Mauretania, French Guinea, the
Ivory Coast, Upper Volta, Dahomey
and Niger... .A.M.C.: (1) Actually,
sundial-faces are usually cast with
the graduations on them; b'ut there
is nothing to prevent their being
prepared by engraving. (2) Try
Eric H. Stewart, 296 Pitt-street,
Sydney. (Some of the large city-
stores handling gardening-tools some-
times stock sundials; Anthony
Horderns’ is one. They may be able
to give some advice).... .E.K.L.:
John Galsworthy received the Nobel
Prize for Literature in 1932 A.S.:
Sir Gordon Richards won the 1953
Derby on Pinza.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re I
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
T.J.R.: There was boundless joy
at 252 George-street when the old
boundary-rider turned his horse for
home L.C.8.: “Reason and
judgment prompt me to question
the worth of these stories. Well,
there’s nothing wrong with your
reasoning and judgment... .S.R.L. :
No, Susan, you cannot tick Martin
off in our pages A.K.E.: First-
efforts seldom see print and yours is
typical of most of them... .L.F.: In
these prosaic days it is doubtful
whether your country copper would
last one day in uniform R.G.:
You are not the first to sit fluting on
a fallen gum E.M.W.: “The Fall
of Evening” fell into the waste-paper
basket... .A.McL.: That sort of
ponderous writing would frighten any
reader away.. • .G.C.: We gathered
that the young lady loves you and
that you are very happy. Congratu-
lations! P.F.: After reading A
Bush Cemetery” we went out for a
rum to drown our sorrow... .K.S.:
Sylvia is the fourth betrayed maiden
to throw herself into the water this
week..«. A.B.W. i Despite the length
of your poem you contrive to say
nothing new about a rosebud....
W.H.T.: You were so concerned
with the lightning and the thunder
and the “fury of the tempest’ that
you forgot all about the story....
A.C.W.: “Slumber Song” was
quarantined before it could cause an
epidemic of sleeping-sickness at 252
George-street A.E.F.: It never
lived up to the promise of the
opening stanza:
Oh, Dorothy, dear, do not drink
Any more sherry in the plonk-shop.
Please stop sipping, and think
Awhile of little Mavis and your old Pop.
H.S.: Neither did your master-
piece beginning:
I well remember that chilly winter morn.
When the milkman came yodelling at
dawn , , ,
Up our garden path, and how our dog
Tozer
Jumped at him and bit him on the
trouser.
A R.M.: Nor did we feel inclined
to accept “The Folly of the Punter,”
despite its striking opening:
The blowsy bookie’s wife was all ablaze
With dazzling fire of mingled gold and
jewels. .
She strutted in glory, while in a daze
The reckless punters lost their dough
like fools.
VB • We also refused to give
immortaiity to “The Botany Boozer,”
with its pathetic prelude:
My long-suffering missus did say to me,
“My tripe and onions thou shalt not
Wretched wreck, 1 have no place for thee
Whene’er I see thee staggering up the
street.”
E.McL.: For some strange, m-
AifstraU? tomng sods
gently, their eyes brimming with salty
fears!:. ,L S>. back in on.
envelope all the girls—Sally, Mabel,
Nancy, Judy and the rest of them
that you dumped on us ...
A.J.McK,.: In what bracken-
shielded, haunted cave, by what
gurgling sluggish creek art thou
hiding? Dunno. You had better
call in the police... .R.C.D.: For
heaven’s sake, cheer up:
When 1 i oo k out on the ’Loo’s crowded
W streets,
On d k dingy houses ’ an on
o i d d and weaded heart misses several
old
. , j- U n dersta nd why my landlady
cries and cries.
H T A • In a noem called “Harry
pe a r ce ' 5 ” David Campbell forestalled
by many years.... A.D. i We
c j ec j c jed that we had had enough
wben we encountered: —
Au ; tralia , Lov ely Australia fair!
A with flan „ e l-flowers, wild boronia and
waratah
A-growing in your golden hair.
And wattle-blossom, too, gleaming like
a bright star.
....C.8.: There is not a mountain
in Australia that has not had at least
a doZ en poems addressed to it—even
tbe hillock near Billygoat Pond m
Moore Park, Sydney P.M.: So
the drunken surgeon, “so drunk that
he could hardly stand,” performed
- a de licate brain-operation with
extraordinary brilliance.” Frankly,
W e would not trust him to remove an
ingrowing toenail F.M.: Too
c i ose t o Mary Hannay Foott’s
“Where the Pelican Builds”
depositing angels in waste-paper
baskets, in the absence of a stamped
envelope we .had nc. other ahemame.
• • •-H.8.. Ride on, Clancy now
” f d t Li °™rresnonsfible writers who
° f vp J os n e pn irre n s P°^ lb and Wr n k rS rd e
given pen, paper anu ,
wildly without stopping, terrorising
all the ‘*“3*
E.R.C.. We shall try 10 srrugg
along without your masterpiece.


Marking and tailing
lambs when flies are
bad is usually inviting
trouble—unless Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
are used. Some time
ago thousands of
graziers were invited
to express an opinion
on the use of Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
in these conditions.
The result was over-
whelming recommen-
dation of the rings by
users. “Positively no
strike whatever,” was
typical comment.
A new Cooker is perhaps the most important
purchase you ever make for a home. You need to
be absolutely certain that the model you select will
prove the best investment. What makes AGA a
better investment? This. The AGA is the ultimate
in cooking appliances—it costs less to own than
any other—in time it will pay for itself in fuel
savings.
If you can’t see AGA demonstrated, fill in the
coupon below and we’ll post you a booklet giving
you all the facts.
HERE ARE JUST A FEW REASONS
WHY AGA OFFERS BETTER VALUE:—
•It’s the world’s most economical cooker—it
cannot burn more than the guaranteed small
amount of fuel,
•You can cook for 2 or 10 at the same low cost.
LEVIN a CO. LTD.
St-57 GOULBURN ST.. SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
• 113 GRENFELL ST.. ADELAIDE
CNR. MARGARET 8s ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
MALLOCH BROS,
so William st., perth
E 153
DON’T BUY
A NEW COOKER
until you’ve checked the extra value of AGA
*
•Provides, at no extra cost, constant 50 gallon
supply of hot water. You enjoy ample hot water
for the laundry, bathroom and kitchen.
•Ready for instant use 24 hours a day—never
goes out.
•The CB model has two ovens—one for roasting
—one for simmering. Both thermostatically
controlled.
•Even oven heat guarantees fine cooking—just
like a baker’s oven. You can go out for the day
leaving the dinner in the simmering oven.
•AGA-CB has simmering and boiling hot plates.
Boiling plate boils four pints of water in four
minutes.
•Better insulated than any other cooker. Keeps
kitchen warmer in Winter and cooler in Summer.
•Children can’t bum themselves by leaning on it.
• 10 years’ guarantee means that actually you get
a lifetime of service from your AGA.
•Easy terms are available and fuel savings pro-
vide a substantial part of your payments.
•Included in the price of the AGA is a wonderful
set of cooking utensils specially machine-based.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details
free and without obligation.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ALBION PARK SHOW
'T'HE first N.S.W. South Coast
show of the New Year was
held at Albion Park, a small
town about 15 miles south of
Wollongong, in ths home-
country of the Australian Illa-
warra Shorthorn.
There was no opening-cere-
mony, but there was an address
by Graham Shirley, well-known
figure in agricultural circles,
commemorating the centenary of
the Dudgeon family in dairying
on the South Coast. Max
Dudgeon replied on behalf of
the family.
In the cattle entries the A.I.S.
were naturally the strongest and
were judged in two sections, the
open and junior. Friesians were
the next-strongest, and showed
great improvement both in
standard and numbers. Guern-
seys and Ayrshires were also
shown, but not in any great
strength.
Judge of the A.I.S. open sec-
tion, J. D. O’Sullivan, from
the Darling Downs (Q.), had a
difficult job because of the two
very fine teams entered by Dud-
geon Bros, and their cousins,
Richardson Bros. the latter
seemed to have a slight edge in
the type-classes leading up to
the championships. Although
other exhibitors did well, these
families won the majority of the
prizes.
The champion female was
Tabbagong Gracie 26th, owned
by the Richardsons, while the
reserve-champion went to the
Dudgeons’ Parkview Fussy
106th. Both cows are very good
specimens of their breed. Cham-
pion bull was the Dudgeon-bred
Parkview Peter, owned and
exhibited by S. R. McDonald,
reserve ribbon going to G.
Alexander’s two-year-old Fair-
field Barrister.
Some good cattle were entered
in the A.I.S. junior section: C.
Craig had both the champion
and reserve-champion heifers,
and F. R. Hatch’s bull was
champion, with C. R. Swan’s
bull reserve-champion.
Among the Friesians, V. J.
Lamond, a man always difficult
to beat, had a great start to the
year’s shows, winning champion
and reserve in the females with
Brundee Luntas Colleen and
Brundee Cressy Meg respectively,
and taking the male champion-
ship with Torarpar Gallant
Dandy (imp., N.Z.). Reserve
ribbon went to A. Boley’s bull,
Wandalga Charlie Dekol.
S. Hayes, of Dapto (N.S.W.),
while not winning any of the
major prizes, exhibited some
excellent cattle: one expects to
hear more of this breeder within
a few seasons. Friesians were
judged by well-known farmer
and exhibitor J. H. Wilson, of
Moss Vale (N.S.W.).
Guernseys were judged by
another Moss Vale man, J. W. G.
Smith, N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture dairy-officer. This
breed, although not strongly
represented, had some good
entries. Competition was mainly
between E. H. Hayes and A. S.
Thomas, the former winning
both champion and reserve-
champion with his females
Monavale Fay and Yarraview
Roussell, and also reserve-
championship with his bull
Glenoak Trump. A. S. Thomas
owned the champion bull,
Meadow Park Laddie.
The Ayrshires presented no
problem for their judge, R
Warby, of lamberoo (N.5.W.)4
as there was only one exhibitor,
Stephens Bros., of Albion Park,
who consequently won every
prize. The lack of competition in
this breed was a great pity: the
Stephenses had some good cattle,
but without opposition the
ribbons they won are not worth
the cloth they are made from.
No Jerseys were exhibited.
Three special prizes were
donated by private people or
firms, all of which went to
Richardson Bros. The first was
a production-and-type prize,
donated by John Darling and
Son Pty., Ltd., flour- and feed-
millers, of Sydney, and was won
by Tabbagong Beauty 68th.
This prize is based on the
Supreme Champion Dairy Cow
prize of the London Dairy Show.
The conditions were for 100
points (maximum) for type and
one point for every 501 b. of milk
over 12,0001 b., all milk being
brought to a 4 per cent. Gaines
Formula Fat corrected-basis to
enable all breeds to compete on
equal terms.
Only four cows qualified, and
all were A. 1.5., the winning cow
getting 73 points for production
and 93 points for type. This cow
later led the grand parade.
The second special prize was for
the best-uddered cow (won by
Roseview Flora 7th) and was in
the form of a shield anonymously
donated in memory of former
committeeman D. R. Youll.
There was a large entry, and the
judges had a difficult job, as they
had to evaluate not only the best-
shaped udder but also the one
capable of the most milk-pro-
duction —otherwise the competi-
tion would have had about as
much value as a beach-beauty
Competition.
The third special prize was
a type - and - production one,
donated by the South Coast Pro-
duce Co. A hundred points for
type and 80 points for milk-pro-
duction certificate, plus one
point for every 101 b. of milk
above this standard, for a team
of three cows. The Richardsons
won.
Among ring - events, the
Olympic type of contest is gain-
ing in popularity each year on
the South Coast, particularly
since P. Parbury has held his
Olympic jumping-contest at his
Dunmore property. It was also
very pleasant to see some
magnificent heavy draught-
horses. We won’t see them for
long, probably, but in the mean-
time it is good to see them. And
when they finally disappear
country shows will lose in
color.
Albion Park people can be
proud of their show. Cattle, of
course, were the strongest sec-
tions, and among the cattle were
animals which could (and, later
in the year, doubtless will) hold
their own with the best in Aus-
tralia.
The committee also encour-
ages farmers in the district who
are not stud-breeders the
Junior A.I.S. section gives the
smaller farmer an opportunity to
enter his cattle with a chance to
win.
The benefits of such a system
are long-range. Given the oppor-
tunity to prove his breeding is
on the right lines in the show-
ring, the smaller breeder is
encouraged to compete until he
reaches a standard at which he
can successfully compete with
the leading breeders. All show-
societies should do something of
the kind. It helps to raise the
standard of a breed in a district
Champion A.I.S. cow at Albion Park show, Richardson Bros.’
Tabbagong Grade 26th.
and ultimately raises the standard
of the show itself.
The only criticism of the
Albion Park catalogue and it
is one which could be made of
all dairy-shows—is that there is
not sufficient emphasis on the
production of the cows. The
lead for this should come from
the society, not only from com-
mercial firms which donate,
special prizes.
The champion cow should be
the best producer and the best
type-cow, and the champion bull
should be the one that sired the
highest-producing heifers of good
type; not just the best “type”-
animals, as now. There are two
ways by which this could be
done ; by putting on a basic limit
of production before an animal
can be entered, or by making the
important prizes purely produc-
tion-and-type. This would, of
course, have the effect of limiting
the major prizes to old and
proven animals. But it would
tend to steadily improve the pro-
duction of the stud-stock of this
country, from year to year.
J. B.
Nitrogen for Sand
“Sunset”: Claims by “Scorch”
(B. 14/12/’55) that nitrogen
played a big part in stimulating
vegetative cover to combat
erosion near Ouyen (Vic.) are
substantiated by Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture experi-
ments at near-by Walpeup with
sulphate-of-ammonia on wheat-
crops on light sandhills.
Although yield-increases from
dressings of 601 b. of super, and
601 b. of sulphate-of-ammonia
applied separately were not
spectacular, a combined dres-
sing of these fertilisers (1201 b.
of 1:1) nearly doubled the
yield of wheat when compared
with plots which received no
manure (9.8 bushels per acre
compared with 5.0).
Victorian agronomist McCann
says that, with wheat at 11s. a
bushel, and 1 : 1 at £2B 10s. a
ton, the extra wheat from using
this proportion of fertiliser is
worth 225. 4d. an acre. If ferti-
liser prices remain the same, the
1201 b. of 1:1 would still be
worth applying, even if wheat
fell to 7s. a bushel.
The monetary advantage
would disappear, but extra
vegetative cover to combat
erosion would warrant the treat-
ment. Trace-minerals did not
benefit wheat-growth on light
sand in the experiment.
Concrete Footings
“Sundowner”: More land-
owners should consider using
concrete for gate-post footings:
once put in, it lasts a lifetime.
Moreover, a concrete foot
prevents the post from working
loose so that the gate can’t be
latched properly or —as often
happens after a time —closed at
all.
It also protects cattle as, if the
footing is sloped away from the
bottom 12in. of the post to
ground-level, cattle won’t run
close to it, and therefore are less
likely to be bruised.
Filter-press
“Bill C”: Filter mud the
brown, friable material that
comes from modern machinery
during the freeing of sugarcane-
juice from impurities in the
northern mills is much used
for improving the soil on
worked-out cane- and vegetable-
land. It consists of much of the
best topsoil of the farms, fibrous
root- and stem-matter from the
crushed cane, and lime, etc.
Used sensibly, it can greatly in-
crease crop tonnages. It is,
however, not a. substitute for soil,
since the high temperatures con-
siderably alter the topsoil-
material, rendering it highly
porous and not very retentive of
moisture in dry times. A large
thickness of filter-press will shed
water like a duck’s back.
Therefore, unless crop-plants
are spaced along a depression
and well-watered, filter-mud
should always be turned well
under and thoroughly mixed with
the existing soil. It is not good on


V LAND
COLUMN
THE
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simple! Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
m
...... J
■■■■
■ r.
ft
H
Reading the Bunyip Level. . Atmosptiere
buttons pressed in.
Ideally serves
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . ..
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
zero to 50 feet.
? v ''
r\ ■ *
m.
Showing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
The Bunyip Level is as simple to
operate in the hands of a 10-year-
old as the qualified engineer. It
cannot get out of adjustment and
is a thoroughly efficient instrument
for use in all general construction
work—which normally needs an
expensive levelling instrument
requiring technical skill.
l *
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced at
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
PROPRIETARY LIffITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MX 1884 MX 1784
Agents throughout Australia.
nil In Coupon and send to us for
full facts of the BUNYIP LEVEL.
NAME
ADDRESS
•
Sb!> 8
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY
HOE
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particulars
and for free demonstrations of .the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1561.
Q’LAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Li a.,
115 York St., Launceston. W. AU!!.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., litd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
mm
TYRES
TRACTORS AND MACfiINES
CROPS AND TREES
... y
m
mm
Takes the hard work out of tyre pumping
and hand greasing . . . Saves enough time to
pay for itself quickly ... A QUALITY product
with the Mobilco 6 months' guarantee.
MOBILCO
COMBINATION
COMPRESSOR -PUMP fits any
make of tractor
/
y
y<
Pumping tyres was hard, but not with
the Mobilco Compressor . . . Greasing
implements was hard (and you often
wasted time trying to push grease
through) . . . but not with the Mobilco
Compressor and Grease Gun. They give
you POWER GREASING . . . And a
special pump conversion kit gives you a
handy boom or nozzle type water or
chemical spray as well.
And you're buying quality a First class
article, built and finished to perfection
and guaranteed for six months . . •
REMEMBER IT FITS ALL TRACTORS AND
ALL MOBILCO CIRCULAR SAWS.
mobile industrial equipment
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. TELEGRAMS: "MOBILCO", SYDNEY.
You will want to know more
about this handiest of farm aids.
Send the coupon now and you
will get a very prompt reply. Just
address it to Mobileo, Mitcham,
Victoria.
POST THIS COUPON
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away, and without
obligation, all details of the MOBILCO
COMPRESSOR/PUMP.
Name
Address...
the lighter, dry soils, but is ideal
mixed with the heavier soils in
which there is plenty of moisture,
When spread fresh on the top,
the stuff ferments with consider-
able heat for a few weeks ; this
hot period is reduced by spread-
ing. Fungi swarm on the mass
during fermentation, and all
livestock should he kept right
away until the heap has lost all
heat and these toxic growths
have dried-off.
On no account throw quan-
tities of the new stuff around
growing plants to help growth;
it is rich in plant-food, but the
fungi will probably cover the
plants and. kill them.
It is safe enough after a few
months’ exposure to the air, but,
once more, it is not a good
mulch, since it tends to dry-out
the soil below while stopping
water coming through from
above.
My experience is that no filter-
press material should ever be
worked into seed-bed soil. When
fine and dry it may seem good
for lightening heavyish soil for
seeds, but it always contains
some sweetish stuff from the
cane-juice; this attracts hordes
of ants which remove “sugar”
and all small seeds. Peas and
beans seem the only seeds they
ignore.
Compost
“Bacto”; With growing
awareness of the value of humus,
many market - gardeners and
farmers have gone “compost-
happy.” A compost-heap is a
good thing to own, but plough-
ing-ih the stubble from a previous
crop gives better returns than
collecting the stubble and rub-
bish, turning it into compost, and
then returning it to the soil.
Experiments at Rothamsted,
in England, demonstrate that
potatoes, wheat and sugar-beet
give superior yields from the
former practice, and inferior
yields when an equivalent
amount of compost is added to
the soil.
Lucerne
“Billjim”: Despite the pro-
gress made with improved types
of pastures, lucerne continues to
grow in favor as a fodder-crop.
Here, in the Cabbage State, the
main reasons for this are: ex-
tension of irrigated areas;
greater acreage being irrigated
from lakes, creeks, rivers and
underground water - storages;
more efficient control of rabbits ;
higher appreciation of the nutri-
tional value of lucerne.
In non-irrigated districts, such
as the Mallee, a succession
of good seasons (there have now
been 10 in a row) has encour-
aged the establishment of record
acreages of lucerne, which, in
addition to its value as a fodder,
assists in the protection of the
soil against wind-erosion.
Key to success in the Mallee
is the sowing of 21b. of seed with
901 b. of superphosphate on a
well-worked fallow, in autumn.
Further south, where the red-
legged earth-mite is a problem,
seeding is often deferred until the
spring. In heavier-rainfall areas
seeding-rate should be 71b. or. 81b.
per acre.
To guard against overgrazing,
keep stock off the stand until it
begins to flower, and take them
off while there is still a healthy
rosette of leaves in the crown.
Watch for bloat. Introduce
animals to the stand gradually,
and feed them on dry pastures
for some of the time.
A well-drained site is im-
portant, as the crop is liable to
suffer from waterlogging,
Lucerne responds well to »
generous annual topdressing of
superphosphate.
If the stand becomes infested
with weeds and the soil' becomes
hard, it should be cultivated in
the autumn with a spring-tyned
implement fitted with narrow
points.
White-cedar
“Mackay”: True enough, as
“A.M.N.” pointed out in an
“M.0.L.” par., white - cedar
berries do poison pigs, but it
doesn’t follow that this beautiful
tree should be destroyed on that
account.
It is a wonderful shade-tree.
In the paddock it gives stock
excellent shade, owing to the
breadth of its spread and the
unusually dense foliage. As it is
deciduous it leaves the paddock 1
open to sunlight in winter —
another advantage. At the
Wagga (N.S.W.) sheep-and-cattle
saleyards white-cedar extends
from one area to another, form-
ing a complete roof of foliage.
For avenue- and street-plant-
ing, white-cedar is hard to better.
Lovely effects can be gained by
alternating it with West Aus-
tralian red flowering-gum, or
with silky-oak. In western areas
that suit it (the tree grows well
on the N.S.W. coast, but reaches
its finest proportions on the
slopes and in the milder parts of
the west) the white-cedar’s small,
lilac-colored flowers mass the
tops of the trees in summer and,
at dusk, the light scent drifts
down the streets and through the
towns.
The leaves are moderately-
good sheep-fodder (as mentioned
earlier, berries are poisonous to
pigs); the leaves are also palat-
able to cows, but sometimes
taint the milk.
Also a native of India and
Persia, white-cedar is sometimes
known as “Persian lilac.” A
fairly quick grower, it is hardy
and drought-resistant.
Farm Hints
“Quo Vadis”: Hair from the
tails of cattle and horses is highly
resistant to spirits-of-salts, and
therefore makes first-class
brushes for use on that soldering
job. Clamp the required amount
of hair in a suitable strip of
kero.-tin, and trim to a neat
shape. Washed after using, it will
last for a long time.
“Bok”: Open water-troughs
for cattle should be protected by
a length of stout timber sup-
ported horizontally along the
centre of the water and about
2ft. 6in. above it. This will stop
the stock jumping over or in
the water and prevent contamina-
tion and damage.
“Banko”: The salty taste of
arsenic is attractive to stock:
so clean-up all traces of arsenic
after it has been used. Empty
containers should be destroyed,
not just thrown away or dumped.
Arsenic spilled from a drum on
a rubbish-heap over seven years
ago recently proved the lasting
potency of the poison by killing
10 ewes that grazed the area.
“Billjim”: To prevent mouse-
damage in haystacks up to a
period of two years, use flowers-
of-sulphur scattered thinly over
every third layer of sheaves at
8-101 b. per ton of hay. The
sulphur does no harm to hay or
stock.
“Wilco”: Dun field-peas sown
with oats about MaKh will help
solve the winter-feed problem
in Queensland. The crop may
be grazed in dry weather, but in
wet weather it should be cut and
spread in the paddocks. Under
grazing, the cows may eat the
oats and leave the peas, so cut-
ting the cropped area up into
small patches with electric-wires
is a good idea. It reduces the
amount of feed available, caus-
ing the cows to eat the peas as
well.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(8/1/’56)
Heavy rains should occur on the north coast and
north-west of Queensland during February, with good falls
extending down the western division into the south-west.
Light to moderate rain should be received in the rest of
the State, with little general relief until the close of April.
In N.S.W., during February, moderate rain is likely
on the coast, portion of the tablelands and north-west slopes
and plains, but light elsewhere. General rains should com-
mence in June, and these may continue during July, leading
to widespread flooding in the western division.
Victoria and South Australia are likely to have poor
rainfall during February. Similar conditions likely in
Western Australia, with the exception of good falls in the
Fortescue and on lower south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Denationalisation
Possibly the first instance in Australia
of the denationalisation of transport-
services is taking place at Geelong (Vic.),
where the State-owned trams are being
completely replaced by privately operated
buses. Finance is the principal reason —
the trams have been showing a loss of
£90,000 annually, and Government in-
vestigations indicated it would cost a
couple of million to modernise the tram-
way-system. Bus-operators consider they
can take over the whole job at a total
cost of about £lOO,OOO, with only slight
general increases in fares.
By March 26 all trams should be off
the Geelong streets and buses owned by
five private companies will be operating.
Some tram-routes are closing immedi-
ately ; others are continuing until new
buses ordered by the companies are
available.
Mr. A. J. Deacon, president of the Gee-
long Transport Operators’ Association
and prime mover in the change-over,
remarked the other day :
“It is a bold experiment, and other
State Governments are watching it with
interest.”
With intense interest, Mr. Deacon
might have said, for losses on public
transport-systems have been a chronic
pain in the neck to all State Treasurers
over the last few years. If Geelong’s
venture proves successful, from both die
operators’ and the public’s point of view,
some of the larger cities may re-examine
the whole question of public transport.
On current trends, State Governments
are going to pour more and more millions
down the drain each year to keep in
operation transport-systems which fall far
short of the travelling public’s require-
ments in comfort and efficiency. If it
can be shown that private enterprise can
do a better job at no cost to the tax-
payer, the strongest of all reasons will
exist for State Governments to relieve
themselves of an onerous responsibility
and a crippling financial burden. —
.Wusslean (Vic.).
Inflation
Inflation, one of our prime bugbears,
has so far defeated every effort to get
value back into the Australian pound,
which steadily decreases in purchasing-
value. In the present state of our
economy every wage-increase only raises
the cost of living and creates demands
for still more wages. This ever-ascend-
ing spiral of wages chasing cost of liv-
ing is not only destroying any chance of
“She’s perfect for the wide screen.”
financial or economic stability but plays
its part in putting overseas markets
beyond our reach.
There must be some way by which
these dangerous trends can be prevented,
some other way of reducing home-
spending without resorting to higher
taxation to take surplus money out of
the pockets of an over-extravagant
public.
When the cost-structure gets top-
heavy internally as well as externally there
is not much sense in wage-increases or
higher taxation, since both help to in-
crease costs and create demands for still
more wages. While this system is im-
posed upon our economy there can be
no end to the upward spiral—until
real necessity forces sales of our pro-
duction at the losses that can be imposed
by a buyers’ market. Nor can there be
any palliatives of lasting value —neither
currency-devaluation nor any other
procedure will increase production at
rates saleable on overseas markets.
Nothing but harder work and a
stabilised wage-system frozen for a con-
siderable time will bring the desired
result with any certainty.
Australia is in no material way com-
parable with the U.S.A., where a vast
population can cough-up billions of dol-
lars in taxation for subsidising produc-
tion and can sell that production at a
loss, or can even give it away without
turning a hair. We are far from self-
sufficient in anything but food and wool,
and our limited labor-force cannot pro-
vide taxes for widespread subsidies for
overseas sales.
There is so much at stake —the future
of the country, the essential increase to
our population, and the retention of our
overseas markets. Without trade much
of our hoped-for future would go over-
board, jettisoned in the foolish idea that
we can live on the highest standard in the
world without working much for it.
With the infiltration into industry of
European migrants, most of whom are
willing to work hard and longer, the old
“take-it-easy” attitude will recede sooner
or later, to the benefit of production.
Increased production means reduced
costs and makes competition easier.
Increased sales will reduce the “balance-
of-payments” problem. Trade flows
easier both ways, and the stage is set
for a decrease in the cost of living and,
we hope, for better industrial peace.
If an all-round reduction in taxation
should coincide with some upward valua-
tion of the currency the way might be
open to some reduction in the wage-
scales. What this country wants is not
more money of less value, but less money
of greater value. As things are, we
are spending far more money than we
earn —and we have been warned. —
Shellback (N.S.W.).
Australian Films
In our present prosperity it’s a wonder
more hasn’t been done to establish an
Australian film-industry. There was an
opportunity just after the war when a lot
of young men had a little capital and
some experience at making short films.
For a while there was quite a good output
of technical and educational shorts ; then,
for some unexplained reason, the market
dried-up and all these young men found
other jobs.
In 1933 the N.S.W. Film Quota Act
was passed to placate a popular demand
that something be done to help Australian
films. The Act required that all Aus-
tralian feature-films —that is, of 5000 ft.
or more—be shown in every picture-
theatre in N. S. Wales except for a repre-
sentative number of theatres in the met-
ropolitan areas. The Act has never really
been enforced, and the few Australian
films that have come along have not had
the distribution and revenue to which
they are entitled.
Ninety-nine per cent, of all short films
shown here, except newsreels, are Ameri-
can. Unless one belongs to a film-society
one cannot even see our own D. 0.1. pro-
ductions. What is needed is an extension
and enforcement of the Film Quota Act
to cover shorts. At least we have shown
ability to make good ones, and they are
the training-ground for full-length pro-
ductions.
American producers have discovered
that Australia is a good place to make
films because costs are much lower than
in Hollywood, yet, because of the mis-
fortunes of the past, Australians are
shaky about investing their capital in
local production-companies. At present,
Chips Rafferty and Charles Chauvel are
battling along to make one feature each,
once in a while, and there are a few small
units making advertising- and TV-
shorts.—L. G. C. (N.S.W.).
“Where Genevieve Lives”
I enjoyed the short story “Where
Genevieve Lives” (B. 28/12/’55), but I
must note that Spit. B’s never operated
from the Trobriands. A Spit, squadron
(No. 79) did fly from the south strip—
the north was reserved for Beaus, and
Bostons —but it was equipped with Mark
s’s “temporarily borrowed” from spares
“Could you fill up the hole for a little while? I haven t learnt to
reverse yet!”
allocated to the R.A.F. wing based on
Darwin. The squadron eventually did re-
equip with B’s, but not until after the
Admiralty landings.
Incidentally, about “the American in-
vasion of the Trobriands”:
When the first assault-troops stormed
ashore at daylight they were met on
the beach by the Australian District
Officer, who had not been advised to
evacuate for the landing, and an R.A.A.F.
radar-detachment which had misread a
signal and arrived a day too early. The
few Jap survivors of the Bismarck Sea
show had been attended to some time
previously by the local residents. —
Spitscot (Q.).
Fouled Fowl
A symptom of some Sydney smallgoods-
shops is the fowl reported to have been
sold wrapped in soiled newspaper and
only a token wisp of tissue. This con-
trasts with U.S. supermarts, where each
egg or tomato is hermetically sealed in
its own cellophane wrapper. Hygiene of
this order verges perhaps on the obses-
sional. Moreover, what befalls the U.S.
tomato between farm and cellophane may
or may not be another story. Still, it
seems all too certain that what befalls
much Australian food en route to con-
sumer is far from aseptic.
One of Sydney’s posh eateries (now
defunct) was overlooked at the rear by
a block of flats. At least one occupant
of the flats liked to edify his guests with
a glimpse of the rats having a go at
the cafe’s food. Most no doubt,
are clean; but exceptions are usually
prosecuted in batches of 20 or so. More
frequent inspections might deter these
cafes from falling into slipshod ways in
the first place.
We might copy a Canadian measure;
there a dirty cafe is temporarily closed —
with the reason plastered on its doors in
6in. letters.—G. P. (N.S.W.).
“Hop”
I cannot agree with W. E. Fitz Henry’s
statement (B. 14/12/’55) that my father,
“Hop,” was not a “mixer” and that he
did not make friends easily.
He was a remarkably popular man and
I never knew anyone who had so many
sincere friends—mostly of his own sex.
He was a man’s man and did not care for
feminine society; he seemed to look upon
women as necessary evils and could toler-
ate them only if they were intelligent,
bright and what he called “sensible” and
had a sense of humor. He disliked shy,
self-conscious women who were uneasy
in his presence. They would say to me
with a simper “Your father will be put-
ting me into The Bulletin.”
My father could never understand that
other men did not regard the company of
the opposite sex with the same aversion.
I remember one morning when he an-
nounced that he was bringing home a
promising young artist to dine that
evening. The new artist came and was
the handsomest young man we had ever
met, charming and likeable. I arranged in
my own mind that he was to marry my
sister, but we never had a chance to cul-
tivate his acquaintance, although that was
but the first of many visits. After dinner
on that first visit my father led him relent-
lessly away to his own sanctum, and
kept him there until it was time for him
to bid us good-night. All his subsequent
visits to our home were similarly con-
ducted. If he came to lunch, he was
taken off immediately afterwards to the
workshop at the end of the garden
to revel in an environment favorable
to etching and fiddle-making. If he came
to dinner, he was shut away in the
“study” when the meal was finished until
the moment of his departure.
Whenever a naval fleet anchored in
Sydney Harbor my father would invite
all the officers to spend an evening at our
home. Before they arrived he would say,
“You girls had better make yourselves
scarce.” We never thought of rebelling
against our banishment from these festi-
vities, but we naturally felt rather sad
to be missing so much fun. We would
withdraw obediently upstairs and seat
ourselves on the top step, hidden from
view but hearing the jolly mariners being
welcomed and entertained by their genial
host. “Hop” was perfectly happy and
no doubt imagined that his guests were
having the time of their lives at his stag
party. Our presence would have been
a restraint on their exuberance and manly
enjoyment, he evidently assumed —we
were not schoolgirls, but in our early
twenties.
It was always the same. Every man,
young or old, married or single, who came
to our home at “Hop’s” invitation was
obliged to submit to his segregation—as
though nothing could afford the visitor
more delight and gratification. \
He had regarded my mother as a strik-
ing exception to her sex, and, because
she had constituted his ideal of what was
companionable, intelligent, frank and
witty in womankind, he was intolerant of
what seemed a lack of these qualities in
other women.
A list of “Hop’s” intimate friends is a
long one and includes the names of dis-
tinguished Australian statesmen, artists,
actors, newspaper-magnates, journalists,
poets, doctors, lawyers, business-execu-
tives and soldiers. He had also many
friends and admirers among clergymen.
I recollect one Sunday evening when a
visiting clerical dignitary called after the
service to see my father, who was out.
When I said that the Archdeacon had
seemed very disappointed at not finding
him in, “Hop’s” only comment was, “I
expect all the old boy wanted was
whisky.” It had not occurred to me to
offer this stimulant to his reverend
crony, in spite of the despairing groan
with which he had received the news
of my father’s absence.-
HATTIE F.
HOPKINS (N.S.W.).


Telling the Unions
No politician in recent years has been
as outspoken on the subject of umons
as the president of the Printing and Allied
Trades Employers’ Federation in his
address to the annual convention of the
federation in Canberra.
Admitting that unions had been
desperately needed in the last century and
in the early part of this century, he
reviewed the achievements, including the
fact that “wages are high, and, what is
more important, they bear little relation
to man’s production.” Then he set out
to prove that the unions were not prepared
to recognise the changed state of indus-
trial affairs. They still insisted on being
fighting units, and this led them to frantic
searchings for more and more industrial
disputes so that there would continue to
be reasons for the existence of the trade-
union movement in its traditional
character of an industrial fighting force.
This led to misleading propaganda,
intended to stir up trouble, inexcusable
in a young nation suffering from growing-
pains, overseas competition, an acute
labor-shortage and barely governed
inflation.
These were telling blows, and it is to
be hoped that the Prime Minister, in the
talks which he proposed with union
leaders, was able to echo them. Then
the printers’ president flayed the officials
who talked of the “miserable basic wage,”
reminding them that at the last basic-
wage inquiry the unions couldn’t find
one witness who earned only the
minimum. The new system, he stressed,
was for the court to prescribe the
maximum amount which it believed
industry could afford to pay. It was
not related to “needs,” but the union
leaders would not tell the public this
fact, or allow their members to remain
content with this far more generous
system. He added sadly that it was “this
complete disregard of facts which leaves
people such as ourselves in a state of
impotent indignation,” and wondered
when the unions would wake up to the
facts of industrial life and recognise that
a chip on the shoulder was no longer
necessary.
Apart from the economic implications
of these reminders, the unions and the
politicians who still profess to support
Labor might well consider their poli-
tical aspects. If some new and virile
party, with an acceptable and useful
policy, is to rise out. of the smelly ashes
of Labor today, then it might well have
a wide appeal by examining and refram-
ing union policy and outlook in the light
of this critical but constructive review.
Many hundreds of thousands of Aus-
tralians are good unionists, but few of
them are really discontented or anxious
for industrial trouble. They would
welcome some new approach which
would bring them more into line with
enlightened thought on the relationships
of employer and employee, to the greater
prosperity of everyone, and to the
expansion of production at lower cost. —
Stromlo (A.C.T.).
Discipline in Schools
The conflict over school-discipline,
with the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation on
one side and the Minister and the Public
Service Board on the other, is not likely
to improve the same discipline.
The right of a teacher to punish a
pupil has never been questioned. Except
for certain necessary limitations affecting
time and manner, these rights are much
the same as those of the parent himself.
Caning seems to be the trouble. Here
again the regulations set out what can
be done and appear clear enough:
Corporal punishment shall be inflicted
only by the Headmaster or experienced
teachers to whom he has delegated this
power. It shall be inflicted only in extreme
cases and shall be across the palm of the
hand.
As in all Government regulations,
however, there is enough vagueness to
cause disquiet among teachers. Who is
the judge of whether it is an extreme
case? Will the department and the
Minister stand behind the teacher who
uses the cane according to the
regulations?
No experienced teacher will admit that
discipline has slipped —that is a reflec-
tion on himself —but he feels that it is
harder to maintain at its previous
standard. Young teachers are finding the
job almost hopeless. The causes are
mostly outside the school, and have been
discussed to the point of exhaustion.
The matter is not helped by the Minis-
ter for Education and the Public Service
“Certainly not —you had the wishbone last timer!"
Board. Neither will come forward and
make any statement supporting teachers
in their efforts to keep order. Mr.
Heffron, when asked about it, replied with
a number of isolated cases of teachers
who had gone beyond regulations in
their punishment of kids and who had
been dealt with (and rightly so) by the
department. His answer had nothing to
do with the general problem of discipline,
and was only calculated to lower the pres-
tige of his teachers.
The P.S.B. is not improving matters
by its interference in the “Lewis Case.”
When Mr. Lewis broke a regulation there
was no reason why he should not have
been treated as any other teacher. In
all similar cases the matter is dealt with
by the department and left there, but in
this case, because of a “Dorothy Dixer”
asked in Parliament and the attitude of
the Minister, the board ignored the
actions of the Director of Education and
re-dealt with the offence.
The blow to the prestige of teachers in
that particular school is really great. One
can imagine children crying, “You cane
me and I’ll tell Mr. Heffron on you.”
It is time that the Minister and the
board realised that teachers as a whole
are doing a really good job under the
most difficult conditions. Some of these
conditions in private industry would
bring the employer heavy fines. Teachers’
employers demand loyalty from them (in
fact, they insist on it by regulation),
Surely the employers should give a simi-
lar loyalty to the teachers. — Obadiah B.
(N.S.W.).
Magazines Which Fail
E. J. Trait’s account (B. 28/12/’55). of
the failing of that very good magazine
for youngsters “The Australian Boy
shows that his company fell into a trap
which has caught many others.
A similar example occurred in the
U.S.A., where Cornelius Vanderbilt, Jnr.,
was persuaded to found a “clean” news-
paper.
“New York is crying out for a news-
paper which doesn’t feature sex-stories or
devote half its space to horseracing,” he
was told. “It’s bound to succeed.”
Vanderbilt did found a paper on those
lines, but advertisers soon stopped buy-
ing space.
“It’s a good paper,” they admitted.
“It contains the stuff which people should
like to read. But only a small fraction
of them do read it. We throw away any
money spent on advertising in it.”
Even a Vanderbilt fortune couldn’t
stand the strain of running a newspaper
at a loss, so it had to cease publication.
John Laffin, of Sydney, was assured
that all working writers would buy a
trade-journal devoted to their interests.
He started “The Freelance,” but only 200
copies per issue were sold and it had to
close.
Southdown Press, of Melbourne, had
a similar experience with “All-Story,”
founded to publish the work of Australian
writers.
Commercial broadcasting - stations
couldn’t fall into the same trap, even if
they wanted to. Their programmes are
selected by sponsors who insist on the
things liked by the majority of listeners,
as revealed by door-to-door polls.
At rare intervals somebody does sell a
sponsor a programme of the type which
people should like, but it rarely happens
a second time. Anything which doesn’t
increase sales, or at least keep them up,
is too expensive a luxury for even our
wealthiest business-firms.
As Mr. Trait says, distribution mono-
polies are a big handicap, but it looks as
if somebody has broken them at last.
“Family Circle” carries advertising of the
pharmaceutical trade and it goes direct
from publisher 'to chemists’ shops for
sale, thus eliminating the high cost of
distribution through the usual channels.
As a result, it can be retailed for six-
pence.
There appears to be nothing to stop
other trades from following suit, through
service-stations and grocery-, drapery-
and confectionery-shops. Such maga-
zines, being partly immune to the troubles
which plague periodicals published and
distributed in the ordinary way, can take
the risk of including a little thought-pro-
voking, high-class reading-matter.
But to publish anything from purely
altruistic motives to raise the taste of the
reading public is to invite failure. A sad
fact, but one which can’t be disregarded.
—H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Trade with Asia?
There are great opportunities for in-
creased trade with Asia (B. 28/12/’55).
Only a week or so before “A.J.H.’s”
disparagement the Acting Common-
wealth Statistician, Mr. S. R. Carver,
issued a bulletin stating that Australian
trade with 23 Asian countries is on the
increase. In 1954-55 total Australian
exports were worth £142.6 million com-
pared with £133.4 million the previous
year. (Total imports from Asia also
rose from £93.9 million to £124.1 million,
so that Australia’s surplus for the year
was actually less than for the previous
year; but the fact of increased trade is
there.)
Japan is Australia’s best customer by
far in Asia ; its imports totalled £584
million, nearly £34 million greater than
the previous year. Its exports to Aus-
tralia, though increasing, were a mere
£lB million. India and Hong Kong were
Australia’s next-best customers.
Australia’s big Asiatic deficits for the
year were with Indonesia (nearly £l9
million), British Borneo (£144 million)
and Ceylon (nearly £ll million) —-due
in the main to increased imports of
petroleum and tea.
There is no reason why we shouldn’t
step-up trade with these three countries,
and convert the deficit into a surplus.
On his recent visit here the Ceylon
Prime Minister, Sir John Kotalawala,
spoke of Ceylon’s need for capital goods
—goods which Australia can supply.
Indonesia wants machinery, industrial
gear, etc., and is getting them mainly
from the U.S.A. We should be able to
corner some of the market there.
A Victorian businessman, Mr. K. F.
Hutchence, who recently spent 16 months
in Asia, returned convinced that we could
sell infinitely more manufactured goods
to Asia. It will take an effort, he said.
Granted; but nothing he suggested is
beyond human ingenuity.
Asian methods of trading-brands,
color of labels, packaging and shipping-
must all be studied and planned. Mr.
Hutchence suggested display ads. show-
ing product and brand.
Government also has a part to play—
by providing greater publicity about
Australia as a manufacturing nation, by
allowing our various Trade Commis-
sioners more scope in arranging trade-
fairs and the like, by doing something
about high freight-rates from Australian
ports and by assisting manufacturers
and exporters with incentives and certain
guarantees.
Mr. Hutchence’s conclusion is—
“ Asians like us and are looking to us
for goods and technical assistance. But
it’s a buyer’s market, and it’s very much
up to ourselves whether we’re success-
ful or not.”— Keima (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 365
Across
I — Sissy boy to observe the absence
of a girl. (4, 5)
s—Sickness5 —Sickness is silent on an after-
thought. (5)
B—Fortune-tellers8 —Fortune-tellers who cannot vote
for Obadiah and Habakkuk.
(5,8)
10 —Sent around near a week. (8)
II — Steeper vessel or conveyance with
steep hills in the fun-park. (6)
13—Unfitting thousand is developing
into the disorderly mice mob’s
gin. (11)
15 —Maids require such assistance in
the manuscript. (3)
17— Descendant. (3)
18 — A double is found in the midst
of folk who are in favor of slow
change. (11)
20 — Disturbance for Master Brook,
for instance. (6)
21 — Can be the subject of an entreaty
to ask Clark. (8)
24 — Slides into these wise men of the
east tribe seabirds. (5, 8)
25 One thousand is the leading
Elizabethan niggard. (5)
26—Fashion renegade or churchman.
(9)
Down
1 — 5-across is informed that I am
royal (or editorial) error to
which one clings after it has been
thoroughly exposed. (9)
2 Wickedness with an aggressive
Turkish vizier and general of the
16th century. (5)
3 Horn portal hiding with regard
to an area almost half the world
away from the Horn. (5-5)
4 A spy hides but talks a lot. (4)
5 Running into an encyclopedist
sound of a bell. (7)
6 Female mounts, but doesn’t say
it aright. (9)
7 Ox to take the wheel. (5)
9—River holds her in. (5)
12—It takes an hour to get around a
little innings. (6, 4)
14 —Yes, Mrs. Don has to admit such
concurrences. (9)
16 —Pharmacist introduces Diana to
a poet. (9)
18 — King George is to infuriate
Stewart. (7)
19 — Not so burdensome a match. (7)
20 — Moslem is miles up. (5)
22 You must put headgear before
the heart. (5)
23 — South Roman with dross. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 364


I
CENTURY'S NEW
Home Lighting Battery
with these WONDERFUL
NEW FEATURES
1
CLEAR POLYSTYRENE CONTAINER
¥
You con see the acid level at a glance.
2
GRAVITY INDICATORS
State of charge visible at all times. No need for
hydrometer.
3
SILVIUM
The magical new additive giving longer plate life and
increased efficiency.
4
GLASS INSULATION—
'
ensures longer life and GREATER POWER.
GUARANTEED
/\
N
V
dl
3
m
to
c
e
i
write
CENTURY'S NEW Glass Insulated with SILvIUM
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY. Type CPG 227.
0
0
0
a
These inbuilt visual ball indicators show clearly
and instantly the state of charge of the battery
at all times.
7
Made by
CENTURY
STORAGE
BATTERY
CO. LTD.
Alexandria,
N.S.W.
GUcuss UrusuXated
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
«a SILVIUM
HOME LIGHme I AR E ' : D! I STRfB R UTED R BY KS ‘ TRACTORS ' EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT. MOTOR CYCLES. RADIO.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Smith Sons &
Rees Ltd., 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Bradley
Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney. Industrial
Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road,
Lidcombe. Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty Ltd
5 I 5 Kiewa Street, Albury. ’
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant & Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd 1 ., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor
Service, 6 1 Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.,
sole concessionaires, 1 5 Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart; 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros. (Darwin,) Pty.
Ltd., Darwin.
