

/
aft#™'
e
SOLERO
SWEET O
y II
, I- 1
The Bulletin
NASSER AND SUEZ
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 *— No. 3992
Wednesday, August 15, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
ITS ANCIENT SIEGES LONG
FORGOTTEN, DONNINGTON
CASTLE STILL STANDS
'"THERE are in Britain many castles
whose ancient walls still bear the
scars of long-forgotten battles, but few
have had a more stormy past than
Donnington Castle, near Newbury in
Berkshire. It was built during the late
14th century by Sir Richard Abberbury,
the guardian of Richard II during his
minority and who was expelled from
Court in 1388 by the Barons for his
adherence to the cause of that monarch.
Edward VI stayed there in 1552 and
Queen Elizabeth I granted the castle to
the Duke of Nottingham in 1600.
The castle played a leading part
during the Civil War when it was
garrisoned for the King. Owing to its
position on a wooded hill above the
River Kennet and commanding the road
from Newbury to Oxford, it was a place
of considerable importance. During the
second Battle of Newbury in 1644 the
garrison, under Colonel John Boys, was
attacked by Cromwell’s troops, who
were driven back with great loss. Later
the castle was again besieged for twelve
days, and, under incessant fire, it was
almost reduced to a heap of ruins; three
of the towers and part of a wall were
demolished. A second summons to
surrender was again ignored, and the
attack continued for three more days, but
every effort to take the fortress failed
until, ultimately, the Parliamentarians
raised the siege. The garrison, obeying
an order from King Charles to surrender,
as he himself was about to give himself
up to the Scottish Army, marched out of
Donnington with full military honours in
April, 1646.
The Castle gateway, with its port-
cullis groves, is still in a good state of
preservation, and is one of the finest
examples of 14th- to 15th-century
military architecture in England. It
consists of three main stories with tall
round flanking towers built of flint with
stone dressings which are pitted in a
number of places by cannon balls. The
embattled parapets are being restored,
and the whole castle, which is under the
care of the Ministry of Works, is
preserved as an ancient monument.
No. 311: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


STOTT TRAINING PAYS!
STOIT’S has helped thousands to
achieve success by Specialized Home-
Study Training. STOTT’S can help
YOU. Note the following subjects:
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Commercial, Station)
Accountancy
English/Arithmetic
Intermediate Certificate
Dresscutting/Desigrf
Showcards/Tickets
Display and Window
Dressing
Commercial Art
Drawing-Sketching
Fashion Illustrating
Caricature/Cartooning
Livestock Breeding
Dairy Farming
Soil/Farm Crops
Testers/Graders
Dairy Supervision
Handwriting
Herd Testers
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Salesmanship
Advertising
Radio (for Amateurs)
Engineering: Motor,
Diesel, Mechanical,
Electrical
Draftsmanship: Mech-
anical, Architectural
Builders’ Courses
Engine Drivers
Boiler, Attendants
Electric Wiring
General Education
Stammerers’ Course
Backward Adults
wmmm
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
—OUT HERE AND MAIL THIS COUPON ——
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Correspondence
Course/s in ' •
my Name
ADDRESS
S.B. 1656 Age.
Writers under 21 are invited to
compete for a short-story prize of
£5 ss. offered by the Goulbum
(N.S.W.) “Lilac Time” committee.
Closing date September 1. Details
from R, G. McFarlane, publicity sub-
committee, 175 Bourke-street, Goul-
burn.
BOOKHDNXER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difßcuit to obtaj®
volume, let us, find it for you —fiction, text boos,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
DUNOLLY'S GOLD
Few country towns have had so
handsome a book for their centenary
as James Flett’s Dunolly (Poppet Head
Press, Princes-street, Glen Waverley);
and few —because Dunolly, which is
between the Loddon and Avoca Rivers
in Victoria, was a great centre of the
gold-rushes—have had so stirring a
history to record.
• The book is large, like an art-book,
with two color-plates and many black-
and-white illustrations; and if some
of the concluding chapters, of school
and municipal history, are only of local
importance, the goldfields stories,
which are the bulk of it, would interest
readers anywhere.
On the cover is a colored photo-
graph, looking remarkably like a
Drysdale painting, of the Welcome
Stranger nugget and its discoverers;
and it is somehow typical of Dunolly’s
chequered history that this resplendent
scene should be phony. The beautiful
big knobbly lump of gold in it was,
says Mr. Flett, just a stone that
happened to be lying about when the
photograph was posed; the real
Welcome Stranger, after its first
tremendous unveiling in the tent at
the celebration-party, having been
banked with prudent speed and,
apparently, quickly broken up.
It was found at Moliagul, a few
miles from Dunolly. weighed 2101 b.
gross, being 21in. long and 10in. thick,
and melted down into about 2307
ounces, for which the finders received
£9s34—there is some confusion about
these figures. The finders were John
Deason and Richard Oates, and it
seems to have been the simplest thing
in the world to dig it up:—
Deason himself found the
“Stranger” at 5 p.m. on the Friday
[Feb. 5, 1869] as he was working
around the roots of a tree. It was
almost on the surface, and a digger’s
tent had once been erected on the
spot. • Deason, it is said, broke his
pick trying to get it out of the
ground, and then covered it up and
he and Oates took it away to his
hut after nightfall in a dray.
Deason had reason enough to cover
the thing up—in fact, it is a wonder he
didn’t just sit firmly on it- till some-
body could escort it to the bank—for,
though .manners may have mended
somewhat by 1869, one thing Mr.
Flett’s book makes abundantly clear
is that the diggers, such elevated souls
as they appear in most of the accounts
of‘Eureka, were a mixed and a wild
lot:
A digger wrote on Sept. 10th: “I
have been prospecting through the
Mallee Scrubs and from there across
the Loddon to Sandy Creek and to
Mclntyre’s and now we are working
in this place [Moliagul], Since .1
arrived here there has been a man
killed in a hole, a woman killed by
the fall of a gumtree, and on
Wednesday evening at the back of
our tent, about 70 yards distant,
there was a man of the name of
Thompson, a brewer, stuck up by
three ruffians and fired at by them,
but by the appearance of the effects
on the man’s face the gun was only
loaded with powder. I think he will
lose his right eye.... .This afternoon
I saw a mob of people ; I went up
and saw a Frenchman with his face
dreadfully cut, and he informed me
he was pulled out of his cart as he
was driving along the road and
robbed of 11 ounces of gold and
£l6 in money. There were plenty of
tents near.”
Dunolly’s favorite bushranger was
Gipsy Smith (one had some vague
notion that this gentleman was an
evangelist; perhaps someone else with
the same name). He bobs rather
elusively through Mr. Flett’s narrative,
but turns up satisfactorily to be taken
with his mate “in Coppernose’s tent,
from which they were watching a
chance to rob Sproston’s store.” A
convict from Hobart and Norfolk
Island, he had lately shot a police-
man through the neck, afterwards enter-
taining himself by robbing all who
passed along the Korong Road and
tying them up to trees.
There was also, in 1857, the cele-
brated Jones Creek Murder Case, news
of which burst upon the world when
an unfortunate black man named Dean
found the bodies of two diggers in a
waterhole and informed the police—
for which piece of public service he
was, on grounds now difficult to deter-
mine, arrested. The eventual discovery
of the real murderers is a long and
complicated story—so complicated that
Mr. Flett himself has changed his mind
about it in a footnote—but at least it
is clear that when Dunbeer, incar-
cerated in Castlemaine jail, asked to
speak to Polly Dodd before her release,
he smartly bit her pose off—one would
think they had been playipg football.
The great rush to Dunolly was just
100 years ago, in 1856, when up to
50,000 diggers (some say less, and some
say. more) stampeded into the area,
packed themselves on to a lead 600
yards wide. and four miles long and
proceeded to raise gold and merry hell.
Mr. Flett, though his prose is awkward
at times, gives a most memorable
description of these wild hordes rush-
ing through the bush, into a town and
out of a town—or, rather, creating the
towns as they went more like
“terrorised beings fleeing from a
plague than sanguine men on the way
to a fortune.”
Before the gold there had been, of
course, the blacks, who disappeared in
the familiar tragic way not so much
through massacre but .from the white
man’s gifts of grog and tuberculosis.
And there were the pioneer squatters
—notably Archibald Campbell Mc-
Dougall from the Isle of Islay, “closely
connected with the heads of the Clan
McDougall of Dunolly, near Oban,
Scotland.”
Mr. Flett covers all this adequately;
though, as he says himself, it is the
goldfields story that has chiefly
engaged his interest, and he is the more
free to concentrate on it because the
general pioneering-story of the Loddon
is. so fully documented in G. F. James’s
invaluable “A Homestead History.”
The Outrageous Outback
Away outback on the Ophir River
where men are men and nobody can
call his horse or his bullock his own
unless he is actually sitting on its head,
things in Tom Ronan’s Moleskin Midas
(Cassell) are a good deal Rougher than
the toughest of chroniclers has so far
revealed.
The battling cattleman steals from
the rich man; the rich man steals from
the battler; the battlers steal from
each other. The race-meetings are
invariably crooked. Strong men fight
with boots, guns, fists, waddies, stock-
whips and broken bottles. Enough
hard liquor is drunk, whenever the
cattlemen come to town, to float a
battleship through the Channel country.
No man —fortunately all this is taking
place a few years ago—is without a
harem of gins.
Let us take one paragraph of “Mole-
skin Midas” to see the packed, intense,
unceasing torrent of villainy out of
which Mr. Ronan has made his novel:
As soon as Nolan was out of sight
Yates headed for Twin Hills. Alec
Drage was burning some green-
hides. “All hell's broken loose.
Luke Nolan went gunning for
McGarry and shot young O’Brien
by mistake. When they got him
to the lock-up he broke down and
gave his guts. It seems that the
Hope Springs mob have lifted a
swag of bullocks from Ophir Downs
and are headed west into the desert.
This mongrel bastard of a Luke
Nolan has named every man on the
river who knocked him back for a
quid or a drink as being in the joke.
McGarry had Billingsgate Joe
planted under the window and got
the whole story. Devlin is riding,
and he’s so stirred up that he’s likely
to take action over.a sweated horse
or. a bullock-hide with. the brand
cut out. These,” he pointed sorrow-
fully at the smoking heap, “are
some of Milderi’s I was keeping
for hobblestraps. When I burn
them I won’t have a decent piece of
greenhide on the place.”
Mr. Ronan goes on like that, only
more so, for 349 pages.
His hero is Tony Yates, purporting
to be one of those legendary cattle-
men who started with nothing and
made millions. Only, in contrast—
surely—to some of the historical
characters who have done just that,
Yates is without a single redeeming
feature. Mr. Ronan has the time of
his life kicking him from one end of
his novel to the other. Everybody
kicks him on sight; or horsewhips
him; or knocks him down; or dumps
him in the river or the garbage-tip at
the back of the pub. He steals from
everybody; he. betrays everybody; he
does not wash; his lusts would disgrace
a billygoat; and, worst of all, perhaps,
. he usually drinks raspberry-vinegar,
He plants watermelon-seeds along
Dolman’s creek so that the blacks will
infest the property; he leans saplings
against the top-rails of Dolman’s yards
“to give the white-ants a chance to
get past the poisoned yard-posts and
have. a good feed of rail”—Dolman
having annoyed him by beating him
for a poddy foal. And, just by being
the dirtiest dog in the district, and
crawling indomitably out of every
garbage-tip, he ends *on a diet of
champagne.
Is there, perhaps, a slight touch of
exaggeration in all this? Well, on page
129 we have the strange picture:—
Cattle-buying is not a career which
encourages hysteria, but this dealer
had one look at the . Southview
bullocks, sat on the hot, bare, dusty
ground and cried like a child . . .
But still, who else ever wrote
an outback book so packed with skull-
duggery as this? It is something new.
If it were not so richly packed, amidst
its extravagances and sordor, with
authentic outback lore, it might have
been no more than an Australian wild-
western; if it had had humor and a
warmer feeling for character, it might
have been a most striking picaresque.
As it is, while neither quite the one
thing nor the other, it remains a
remarkably solid and entertaining piece
of work.
"Commander Brady"
Commander Brady (Constable) is
much the smoothest novel, for all its
rough water and rough doings, yet
written by J. E. Macdonnell, whom
“Bulletin” readers know as “Macnell.”
The plot, so far as it exists, of tension
between Commander Brady, who has
risen from the ranks, and his first-
lieutenant, with whom Brady feels
awkward on that account, is rather
uneasy, Macdonnell is obliged on the
one hand to have Brady the ever-
competent heroic figure, able to knock-
down a bar-room bully, sink a Japanese
submarine or bring his destroyer
through a typhoon with equal aplomb,
and on the other hand to have him
jittering in his “inferiority-complex”
like—-well, not like anybody very
plausible.
There might have been a more effec-
tive drama—and up to a point there is
—in the secondary story running
through it, of the incompetence and
cowardice of another officer, Horrocks,
who lets the men down when he is
ashore on a commando-raid and fails
again in an emergency when the ship
is aground. But each time, just when
there is a nice situation developing,
with plenty of arguments on both sides
to put to the commander, Macdonnell
has Horrocks wounded and slips him
out of the story. Perhaps he didn’t
want to interfere too much with what
his novel is really about: a swift and
clear picture of life on a destroyer,
with action against the sea or the
enemy really much more important
than either the nights ashore in Manila
or the pin prickings among the crew.
This, the action, is always very good
indeed. If one knew before that Mac-
donnell had a secret all his own of
making clear and dramatic the compli-
cated mechanism of a modem ship in
battle, and if the shooting-down of an
attacking aircraft and the depth-
charging of submarines remain as good
as one would expect, it is something
new to learn that he, can make so
exciting a story of a commando-raid on
an aerodrome and of a destroyer’s
confident but still tense encounter with
a typhoon. In his picture of the
powerful machinery mastering the sea
he adds a point here to both Conrad
and Monsarrat.
EL DORADO
For Dame Mary Gilmore.
I
Toucans called his name, their beaks like
coffers of gold.
Macaws, feathered gorgeously as Aztec
chieftains,
Confirmed all rumors. Night-insects
crackled and shrilled,
Beating small gongs of yellow gold
beyond the firelight.
Caymans, with all too human cough,
Walked out of the huge river at night
To lie like logs on the sand-bars ■
Where gold was to be had for the sifting,
gold
In polished pebbles and grains.
“Powdered gold he wears,
“This El Dorado, from head to foot,
So that he gleams like an idol forged of
that metal.
It is stuck to his skin with his naked sweat.
“In very solemn ceremony this priest-
king descends
Into a lake to remove that shining,
Symbolic dust. And prays as he stands.”
II
Allan's his Christian-name. He serves
machines
That print gold-lettering on chocolate-
wrappers.
El Dorado, l call him. He grins.
He speaks like a child, only it’s not funny,
Who puts a clothes-peg on his nose for a
lark.
“I lost my sense of smell many
“Years ago,” he said. Tapped his beak
and smiled.
“The things men do for a living!” Gold-
dust,
Or bronze-powder, is machine-filed
And delivered to the works. The trade-
name
Is then printed on glossy
Red, blue and yellow paper. Cocoa-beans
come
From the jungle where birds, orchids and
men
Dress themselves gorgeously.
It’s right so to wrap chocolate again.
“Gold”-dust is in his hair, specks
Lie deep in every pock of skin ;
It coats his lungs. This El Dorado must
Attempt to wash it off each night, from
face and hands,
In tap-water. His spirit is not
Base metal. Pray for him as he stands.
W. HART-SMITH.


PORTABLES FOR 6/6 WKLY.
We offer bigger trade-ins
x- *
P
Check all the wonderful features of buying one of Anthony Hor-
derns’ Portables (all with a 12 months’ guarantee) and see
how much you save with your trade-in! Anthony Horderns’
have the largest range of portable typewriters in Sydney.
Anthony Horderns’ typewriters are all available on the
\ easiest of terms. Every typewriter has its own carry-
ing case. We have a special team of experts from
the Credit Division to help you to buy on your
own individual terms. In our Ground Floor,
Pitt Street, Stationery Department, we have
an extensive range of portable typewriters
on display to suit every need . . . every
budget! So save money —trade-in your
old typewriter as deposit on a new model.
Left: Remington 66 Quiet-Riter 99
Years ahead in design, features and performance.
£55/10/-. Dep. £7. No tab, £5l/19/6, £6/10/-.
■v-
Hermes 2000
The famous Swiss Portable
typewriter of precision and
beauty, incorporating indi-
vidual touch control and full
standard keyboard. Priced at
only £49/15/-. £6/10/- dep.
Hermes Mu by.
A light, practical and sturdy
Portable, yet so moderately
priced from £35 metal case,
£4/10/- deposit; £3B/17/6
plastic case, £5 deposit; £43
leather case, £5/10/- deposit.
mmtam
m
mm
SS*Yv
7t"T
Imperial No* 3
The Good Companion No. 3
has all the main features of a
standard model, yet it is com-
pact & light enough to carry
easily. Price, £46, or £6 dep.
Unil.: Imperial No. 1, priced
at £39/10/- or £5 deposit.
Olivetti “22”
For anybody needing clearly-
written correspondence, les-
sons, notes, essays, reports,
forms —the “lettera 22” offers
a compact machine, easily
transportable and of most
up-to-date design and finish.
£4l/10/-, £5/10/- deposit.
12 MONTHS’ GUARANTEE
Imported binoculars
Yes, these quality imported Binoculars are exclusive to Anthony Horderns’ (and only Anthony Hor-
derns’) . . . made expressly for us at this amazingly low 'iprice! Each pair has its own leather case and
strap, in sizes 8 x 30, 7 x 50 and 10 x 50. Come in early . . . only limited stocks owing to import
restrictions. From only £lB/10/-. Easy terms available. Jewellery Department, Pitt Street.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthony
*1
80951
OCR POSTAL ADDRESS IS ROX 2712 G.P.0., SYDNEY OR PHONE RO9SI.
T.O.P.S.


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3992
Wednesday, August IS, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
WHERE'S THE FIRE?
THE Cahill Government’s record in local-
government has consisted of steadily whittling-
away its truly local nature and steadily building up
the political power of the “Labor” party. This has
been done by amalgamating adjoining shires and
municipalities until they become too unwieldy to
benefit from the real local knowledge of individual
councillors and by squeezing out of municipal life
the people who provide the municipal revenue.
The effect can be seen in full (but noisome)
flower in Sydney, where, by judicious redrawing of
boundaries, designed to drag-in industrial suburbs
without any community of interest with the business
heart of the city, the City Council has been put
permanently in the hands of a Trades Hall junta
and the once-honored position of Lord Mayor is
in the gift of the A.L.P. executive. Sydney rate-
payers provide the funds to run the city. The
“Labor” party provides the Lord Mayor and a
biddable Council majority which decides how the
money shall be spent. The end-object is “jobs for
the bhoys” —paid aldermen of the right political
color.
A bill now before the N. S. Wales Parliament
seeks to extend this formula to the Board of Fire
Commissioners, the body responsible for the control
of fire-fighting activities throughout the State. The
traditional method of financing fire-brigades in
Australia, as in England, is that the cost should be
shared by the Governments, the municipal
authorities and the fire-insurance companies. The
proportions .borne by each vary; in Tasmania each
contributes a third, but in the other five States
the amount provided by the insurance-offices is
considerably greater than that found by the
Treasury or the municipality. The approximate
percentages of the insurance-companies in the
various States are Tasmania, 33 per cent.; Queens-
land, 43 per cent.; South Australia, 55 per cent.;
Westralia, 55 per cent.; Victoria, 67 per cent.
Until 1949 the insurance-companies in
N. S. Wales were required to contribute 50 per
cent., while the Government and the councils each
provided 25 per cent. By an amendment passed in
that year the insurers’ share was raised to 75 per
cent., making it by far the highest in Australia.
Government and council contributions were reduced
to per cent. each. It was possibly this example
which led the Cain Government in Victoria to
transfer its share of the cost completely on to the
shoulders of the insurance companies. Previously
the Government contribution in Victoria had been
one-third.
The amendments now before the N. S. Wales
Parliament do not alter the contributions, but they
propose very drastic alterations in the constitution
of the Board of Fire Commissioners. This at present
consists of eight members —a chairman who is
appointed by the Government and seven others.
The seven are appointed on the following basis:
three are elected by the insurance companies; one
by the metropolitan councils; one by country
councils; one by the permanent firemen and one by
volunteer firemen. The board is now to be reduced
from eight to five members by reducing the
insurance-representation to by having only
one member to represent all councils, city and
country. The term of office —at present three years
with five for the chairman—is to be five years for
all members, and there will be an age-limit of 65.
In introducing (he bill, Chief Secretary Kelly
said its purpose was to give the board “greater
compactness,” and- that this would “simplify
administration and operate generally to the good
of the service.” He referred to the necessity for
sympathetic administration of the fire-service and
reminded members that the service “had been
disrupted on several occasions during recent years,
and that public safety bad been repeatedly
jeopardised.” The object of the bill, he said, was
“to streamline the administration in order to
eliminate such occurrences.” Translated into plain
English, this means choosing a board which will
take its orders from the Trades Hall.
A necessary prerequisite of such a board is
the sacking of the present Chief Commissioner,
T. J. Smith, who has put himself offside with the
Cahills by refusing to concede every demand of the
Fire Brigades Union, however extravagant. This,
by the reasoning of Kelly, amounts to unsympathetic
administration and makes the board, not the union,
responsible for strikes which disrupt the service
and jeopardise public safety. The Chief Secretary
has apparently forgotten that the wanton strikes
which left Sydney virtually defenceless against fire
on two occasions in 1955 were not instigated by any
action of the board. The firemen went on strike in
protest against an award of the industrial court.
For this their union was deregistered by the court
and fined £5OO. The deregistration was sub-
sequently lifted and the fine may or may not have
been paid.
The 65-year age-limit is designed to get rid
of Chief Commissioner Smith. Kelly says it repre-
sents the general attitude of the Government, and
that “exceptions are made only in very special
cases.” Apparently Kelly himself is a very special
case; last week, in reply to an interjection, he
admitted that he was “over the hill.” Among other
very specials in the N.S.W. Cabinet are Premier
Cahill and Deputy-Premier Heffron. The late Jack
Baddeley must have been a very, very special—he
was nudging 70 when he was given a seven-year
term as Director of State Coalmines.
None of the three gentlemen mentioned has
ever been accused of going counter to the wishes of
the Trades Hall; perhaps that makes a difference.
It was that unforgivable offence, not the rather
human failing of turning 65, that put the Indian-
sign on T. J. Smith, as upon Railways Commis-
sioner Winsor. Both these commissioners were
“Labor” appointees and were originally sympathetic
to “Labor”; Smith was at one time “Labor”
M.L.A. for King. But it is a cardinal article of
faith in the N.S.W. “Labor” movement that a man
appointed to a position of trust must lean to the
unions all the time, not merely some of the time or
even most of the time. Smith has insisted on
discipline, and for this lack of sympathy out he
goes!
The new Board of Fire Commissioners will be
a Government-dominated board, directed by a
Trades Hall-dominated Government. The new
Chief Commissioner, whoever he is, will have the
example of T. J. Smith to show him what happens
to a commissioner who opposes the will of the
unions.
The Fire Brigades Union will, as at present,
have a direct representative on the board, com-
pletely subservient to its orders. The third “Labor”
nominee will be the representative of the councils.
This has been made a certainty by a change in
the basis of voting which eliminates any chance of
a country representative being chosen. Under the
old system no council had more than four votes;
under the new Sydney has 83 and the metropolitan
area 387, as against 240 from the rest of the State.
The effect of all this will be to place the fire-
services of the State under the control of the Fire
Brigades Union (which sought this very change 10
years ago when its representative on the board
was Sid Jordan), leaving in a permanent minority
the representatives of the people who provide the
lion’s share of the cost of the service and the
country districts in which 200 volunteer-manned
brigades cope with the annual menace of bushfires
in addition to the ordinary run of conflagrations.
Kelly calls it streamlining. “Pipelining” would
be a better word —the Board of Fire Commissioners
will get its orders by direct line from the Trades
Hall.
The Defence of Australia
[From the Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.C.]
THE subject of Australian defence policy should
be debated in Parliament, as well as the extent of
its undertakings in a common war-effort. For
there is some evidence showing that the defence-
plans which the military advisers have recom-
mended, and which the Government appears to
have adopted, may not be in our own best interests.
However, before discussing these we should
examine the changed position of the British
Empire since the wars of 1914-18 and 1939-45 and
the present time. Prior to 1914 the defence of
Australia rested, almost solely, on the undisputed
sea-power of the Royal Navy. At the beginning
of the century it was maintained at a “three-
Power” standard. Which meant that its strength
was not less than that of the combined fleets of
the three next great world Powers. In the inter-
vening years the ratio has been gradually whittled
away, first to a “two-Power” standard, then equality
to any single Power; and now the Royal Navy
ranks biit third to the navies of the U.S.A. and
Soviet Russia. When I speak of “sea-power” I
include air-power and submarines as well.
Until 1939 Britain had a vast Empire stretched
across the globe, from which on the precedent of
the 1914 war it could in 1939 expect, and did
receive, considerable military support and raw-
material supplies.
In view of Lord Louis Mountbatten’s remarks
with regard to the strength of the Soviet Navy,
particularly in submarines and cruisers, it would
seem that in war Britain may be able only to obtain
supplies from the United States and Canada over
the comparatively short routes of the North Atlantic.
Her shipping will not be able to make the long
voyages to Australia. Which means that while she
cannot receive new supplies from us, neither can
we hope for munitions or aeroplanes from her.
It is well at this point to look at the divisions
of the nations today. There are the Soviet and
Democratic blocs, and between them, if war comes,
the fight will rage. But there is another great bloc
which we may term the neutral nations. These can
easily go either way in a global war, but they are
more likely to preserve their neutrality at almost
any cost. To achieve this we can rest assured that
they will do nothing to assist the Democracies for
fear that they might be embroiled in a war with
the Soviet bloc.
Britain has no naval bases in the Indian
Ocean nor harbors in the neutrals which she can
use. The former chief of the Australian General
Staff, Lieut.-General Sir Sydney Rowell, has said:
“Nothing we can do can alter the fact that Australia
is an island continent, dependent on the security of
air- and sea-communications for contact with the
outside world, and faced with a gradual spread of
imperial Communist aggression from the north.”
He pointed out that our vital lines of communica-
tion will be across the Pacific and Southern Oceans
rather than the Indian Ocean. He added that our
lifeline must be with the United States. This is
very clear and true, and shows that we will have
to look to the United States almost alone.
Later he refers to Singapore as one of the
bastions of South-east Asian defence, and states
that a war must be fought as far away as possible
from the shores of Australia. If this means that
Australia and New Zealand are going to accept
responsibility for the defence of Singapore against
external aggression, then it is a most dangerous
doctrine for the Commonwealth. It might easily
cause a large proportion of our best troops to be
lost in a second fall of Singapore. For one has
only to look at the map of South-east Asia to
realise the impossibility of maintaining communi-
cations through either the Straits of Malacca or
the narrow Java Sea if they are filled with those
Soviet submarines from Vladivostok which Lord
Mountbatten referred to.
In the opening of a World War the defence
of Australia should be based on New Guinea and
the preservation of the Australian continent from
invasion. Later, when United States air- and sea-
power, with troops, arrive, then our forces should
take part in the destruction of the enemy wherever
he may be.
Mr. David Marshall, Singapore’s Chief
Minister, is stated to have said “that the value of
Singapore as a naval base might be illusory and
psychological rather than real.” The Australian
press of May 13 quoted the London “Daily Express”
as saying that “Australian and New repre-
sentations were a major reason for Britain’s firm
stand on Singapore, which led to the complete
breakdown of the negotiations.” If this is true,
then it would seem that Australia is pledged to the
defence of Singapore. Before he finally commits
the Commonwealth to such a policy, the Prime
Minister should permit a debate on Australian
defence, and state what is the Government’s policy,
for there are certainly very divided opinions on it.
The second point that the Government should
consider, in view of General Rowell’s statement
that we must look to U.S.A. sources for our weapons
and military aid, is whether we should not integrate
our defence equipment with that pf the United
States. This would mean the use of American types
of weapons, ammunition, aeroplanes and aircraft-
carriers of similar tonnage to those of the U.S.A.
The next question which arises is—as our
forces will be fighting in a global war with the
United States troops —whether we should not train
our Navy, Army and Air Force according to
United States methods so that troops, ships or air
units can take their place with those of the U.S. and
be interchangeable with them. This particularly
applies to the standardisation of weapons, in the
Q-branch and the ordnance workshops.
In war we should depend for our supplies
of weapons and replacement of aircraft on the
U.S.A., for it would be impossible to get them
elsewhere. And because, as Mr. John Foster Dulles
stated before the United States Foreign Relations
Committee, “our productivity is not much less
than that of all the rest of the world put together.”
America is, in effect, our only source of supply in
war.
The third point which should be discussed in
a defence debate is with regard to Woomera. I
suggest that the Prime Minister should express
Australia’s desire that the United States and
Canada be invited to take part in, and work on.
the experiments at Woomera, and that these
countries should have made available to them the
knowledge gained there. In war-time this would be
given to them, but it might be too late then.
The questions raised here are of great import'
ance, and whether the Government agrees or
disagrees with them they should be at least debated
in Parliament, so that the jbeople may know < what
is happening, and that we do not just drift into a
position that may be fatal to the defence oi
Australia.


EAST OF SUEZ


PLAIN ENGLISH
Lower Level Still
Those who thought the Queensland
“Labor” Government had touched rock-
bottom in public decency when it used
its majority in Parliament to sack Lands
Board chairman Creighton, yet did not
offer one word of censure on former
Lands Minister Foley, adjudged by a
royal commission to be guilty of corrup-
tion, had cause to review their opinion
last week, when Foley, Premier Gair
and Deputy-Premier Walsh spoke to a
no-confidence motion moved by the
Opposition. , , , ,
Foley, complaining that he had been
found guilty on hearsay and rumor after
he had been acquitted at a legal trial,
attacked the royal commissioner,
Townley, L, and the judge who gave
evidence at the commission, Philp, J.
Foley said:
In the case of Bell I have come to the
conclusion that he [the royal commissioner J
set out to assist his fellow-judge. It was
probably suggested to him, directly or
indirectly, “For God’s sake, don t do any-
thing to injure my club pal, my drinking-
partner.”
It is understandable, though not
excusable, that Foley as the man chiefly
affected hy the commission (except the
unfortunate Creighton) should talk in
this extravagant strain. It is almost
unbelievable that the leader of his party
should let his outburst go unrebuked. Yet
Gair did more than that. While claim-
ing that he accepted the commission’s
findings, he said that, “with all due
respect to the commission,” he found it
hard to believe that Foley had acted as
the commission found he had acted in
the Bell affair. That is to say, he accepts
the report of the commission but doubts
its correctness.
Like Gair, Deputy-Premier Walsh also
accepted the report, but he conceded
Foley the right to say what he pleased
about it. “If I were in his position I
would probably have said all he said, and
a lot more.”
Without being in Foley’s position,
Walsh then proceeded to say a lot more.
He attacked Philp, J., for not having
conveyed to the proper authorities the
“alarming information” given him by Bell
in conversation at the Queensland Club.
When Opposition members protested that
Walsh was out of order in attacking a
judge, Speaker Mann ruled that the
attack was not on Mr. Justice Philp but
on Philp, the royal-commission witness.
Walsh then extended his attack to the
Queensland Club, which he described as
“the centre of bitter political and
sectarian propaganda.” He said it was
“remarkable” that of all its members
“the one picked out was the witness
Philp.” He felt sure that other members
knew of the allegations.
So that is the position in Queensland
today. A Minister of the Crown is found
guilty of corruption. He resigns from
Cabinet, but not from Parliament. His
colleagues dismiss the man who was one
of the principal causes of his exposure.
They find it hard to believe the com-
missioner’s findings; they cast doubts on
the value of the evidence of a witness who
is a Supreme Court judge ; they condone
Foley’s innuendoes of conspiracy be-
tween two judges ; they do not see any
cause for shame in Foley’s continuance
as a member of Parliament and of their
party.
Falling Behind
While clamor grows among the soft-
shelled echoers of Communist policy for
reduction of defence expenditure, nobody
seems to be paying much attention to
comparison ' of Australian defence-
equipment with that of other countries
which are revolutionising theirs.
Certainly some magnificent capital-work
has been done in the building of new
aerodromes along a reasonable tactical
line, but there is very little in the way of
up-to-date aircraft to land on them when
completed. So long as there are a few
R.A.A.F. machines capable of breaking
a record now and then, all is assumed to
be well. But the plain fact is that to
meet the newest in sky-equipment for
World War 111, even the best-trained
Australian needs to leave his own
country. The best we have in squadron-
sized helpings, whether fighter or bomber
or specialist planes, is outmoded or on the
way out.
The Royal Australian Navy seems to
be in just as bad a position. The Mel-
bourne is certainly scarcely an ultra-
modern ship. It can quite well handle
aircraft types now available to the
R.A.N., but in the next war anybody who
expects to use her will have to write-off
any urge to progress in speeds and land-
ing and take-off techniques. The anti-
submarine force is developing along
somewhat bewhiskered and conservative
lines, and, provided the enemy submarines
are not too large, too fast, too far-ranging
or equipped with long-distance guided
missiles, it seems likely that the R.A.N.
might occasionally bag one. There seems
to be no move towards providing Aus-
tralia with guided-missile vessels, of which
the United Kingdom is beginning to build
a few. And though the lesson of the last
war in the Pacific was the need for
ability to co-operate and interchange
equipment with the Americans, the policy
of the R.A.N. seems to be based on a
fixed conviction that the next conflict will
take place exclusively in the North Sea
or the Mediterranean.
The Army is beyond question out-of-
date. Its training, save for special units,
which are feeling their way, and the
Malayan force, has no relation to the 1956
conception of warfare. The National
Training Scheme seems to be gradually
dying through lack of enthusiasm on the
Ministerial side and pressure on -the
industrial side, on which shortage of labor
is always a problem.
A glimpse at new German and Russian
organisations, and at what the Canadians
are doing, especially to their Navy,
shows us to be puffing along years
behind.
Anzac Day March
Commonsense has prevailed in the ranks
of the Returned Servicemen’s League,
and next year’s Anzac Day march
through Sydney will terminate with a
religious service in the Domain, con-
ducted by clergymen of various
denominations, as was the custom from
the inception of the ceremony until the
unfortunate decision which split this
year’s procession into two parts, one
continuing on to the Domain for the
traditional service and the other terminat-
ing at the War Memorial in Hyde Park
for the non-denominational service at
which, by order of the R.S.L., no member
of the clergy was permitted to officiate.
The decision to revert to the old
pattern was taken last week at the
annual State congress of the League, after
the question had been debated and voted
on in committee, State president Yeo
having spoken strongly against discussion
in open session on the grounds that the
issue was a domestic one.
The League may regard its decision as
a domestic matter, but its effect goes far
beyond that. Anzac Day is a national
day, and although the R.S.L., as the
oldest, largest and most representative
ex-servicemen’s organisation, is rightly
the custodian of the march, its executive
should remember that trusteeship is not
quite the same thing as ownership.
Unpleasant things were said on both
sides after last April’s regrettable mix-up.
It is to be hoped that these will now be
forgotten and that the common aim of
all parties to the argument will be to
make next year’s celebration worthy
of the men and the occasion it
commemorates.
Egyptian Vagary
“Abdul Assiz”: Nasser is dictator not
because he is endowed with a streak of
virtue but because his predecessor was
so bad.
To go further back, the germ of the
present Middle East situation was
born with T. E. Lawrence, whose lavish
distribution of gold sovereigns led the
Arabs to believe —also with some cause
—that English gold could be obtained on
the flimsiest of promises. Lawrence, by
the way, was responsible for a multitude
of other changes in the allegedly
unchanging East.
Followed the Persians, who showed
how to extract easy money from the oil-
nabobs by the simple process of giving
themselves a high nuisance-value. This
led-up, quickly, to expropriation (also
miscalled nationalisation) of the oilfields
and of the largest oil-refinery in the
world —which, of course, they were
unable to work without outside technical
aid.
The final major blow was the offer,
by the Arabian American Oil Co., of a
50 per cent, share in the produce of the
Saudi Arabian wells. This bait was
intended to keep out competitors—which
it did. But it also gave the Arabs a
minimum basis for further bargaining,
which killed the concession market, as
50 per cent, was a very uneconomic
maximum.
Nasser, in his Suez brigandage, is also
attempting to take a huge bite out of the
petroleum industry, and the Aramco gold,
mostly derived from the £lOO million
paid annually to King Sa’ud, is financing
the intrigue.
Suez and oil, however, are mere pawns
to Nasser, who aims to become the
spiritual and temporal leader of all the
Arabs. Here, however, his hopes are
not so bright, as the breed Arab is
intensely race-proud, and, in his heart,
despises the conglomeration of Semite,
Negro and Caucasian now called
Egyptian. The Arabs have (or had) a
word for it.
In common with the Arabs, however,
the Egyptians possess the very flexible
Arabic script, which far excels the
Delphic oracle at the height of its
development for ambiguity —an ambiguity
brought to full perfection by the profes-
sional scribes and interpreters of Cairo.
The Gyppos, also, are entirely lacking in
gratitude and have neither conscience nor
scruples.
But I doubt if, in the long run, Nasser’s
policies will succeed in doing much more
than wrecking the feelthy-postcard trade.
Menzies's Role on Suez
“In the ACT”: Most newspapers and
most Australians were pleased that Mr.
Menzies was in North America when the
Suez crisis broke, and consequently avail-
able for discussing the matter with the
Canadians and for placing before the
President and the Secretary of State in
Washington the British views, which are
also those of the Australian Govern-
ment.
There are several reasons why Mr.
Menzies should be at the London con-
ference which begins tomorrow. The first
is that he is best fitted to state the Aus-
tralian attitude with force and eloquence,
and with all the authority of his high
office. Another and more subtle one can
be gleaned from the reports of his
activities which have reached Australia.
There is no doubt that in his case the
event found the man ready. He has been
able to act as spokesman for Britain and
Australia in the highest circles in the
United States (whatever the British
Ambassador in Washington may have
thought of it all), and he conceivably has
been in touch from the outset with his
personal friends the Prime Ministers of
India, Pakistan and Ceylon. These three
members of the Commonwealth, two of
them now republics and the third soon to
follow suit, will be vitally affected by
whatever happens to the canal and its
control, and their attitudes must be of
the highest moment in the discussions
now pending.
It can be assumed that Mr. Menzies
would recognise from the outset the
need for resolving the crisis in a manner
acceptable to all the nations and interests
concerned, within a formula which could
combine the greatest measure of justice
with the largest amount of “face-saving.”
This wouldn’t mean weak-kneed accept-
ance of Nasser’s truculent bluffing, but
it could involve recognition of the
Egyptian leader’s domestic difficulties and
of the fact that peace might depend on
manner and method.
It could go further. It could look
beyond the immediate and threatening
issue to a solution of all the issues which
bedevil the Middle East at the moment,
and keep the world in a state of jitters.
And So It Came to Pass!
A week or two ago, in what turns out
now to have been an extraordinary
coincidence, J. G. Greenall, a former
member of the consultative committee to
the British Electricity Authority, told a
Melbourne meeting that electricity was
too cheap in Victoria, and he went on
to development-costs, suggesting that
capital-outlay should be repaid from
revenue.
By another happy coincidence, chair-
man Hunt, of the Electricity Commission,
was present, and got up to agree heartily
about his easy method of raising funds
for capital works.
The Victorian public was not alarmed
at Greenall’s contentions. Not only had
Acting-Premier Rylah expressed the
deepest misgivings about rising costs, but
electricity charges had been increased
substantially as late as last April.
Developments, however, began. Four-
hundred men at the Kiewa hydroelectric
project, who were housed with their
families and engaged, on a tacit under-
standing which suited both the com-
mission and the men, for a number of
years, were put-off. It seemed another
of the chronic periodic crises in the
commission’s finances had developed.
The previous crisis, during the 1952-53
recession, led the dour then-Premier,
McDonald, to mutter about “repudia-
tion.” Hundreds of Australian and over-
seas firms who had supplied goods to the
S.E.C. were told their accounts could not
be paid “in full at present”; they were
asked to accept payment of half the
amount owed and to accept 5 per cent,
on the balance for a time. Then the
loan-market picked-up.
The latest financial crisis is due to the
commission’s failure to raise the full
£15,175,000 authorised by the Loan
Council which, with £1 million from the
Government, would have enabled it to
carry on the project. The S.E.C. loans
fell short because the Commonwealth
raised bond-interest when it was on the
market. The Loan Council then
authorised a special loan period, before
the financial year closed, for the com-
mission, but it ended the year more than
£2 million short of its approved
borrowings.
The sacking of the 400 family men at
Kiewa, who could not possibly hope to
get other work in the region, and the
cessation of work to complete the
Number-one power-station, produced
precisely the reaction that might have
been expected: truculence from even the
more responsible quarters at the Trades
Hall; complaints from Rylah about the
high cost of labor on construction jobs;
and questions from the dailies whether
the construction of a national under-
taking should be taken up, discarded and
taken up again according to the commis-
sion’s luck in the vagaries of a constantly
changing loan-market.
The set was then complete on the stage
for Rylah to walk on and announce a
rise of 10 per cent, for householders and
20 per cent, for industry in electricity
charges, giving the commission an extra
£3 million a year for capital works; and
for Electricity Minister Reid to follow
with the postscript that the dismissal
notices had been withdrawn.
So Allah Hunt and Mohammed
Greenall were true prophets indeed when
they rose at that meeting of the Com-
munity Development Conference on
August 1.
Vale Archie Cameron
The death of Archie Galbraith
Cameron, Speaker of the House of
Representatives, leaves a gap in Parlia-
ment difficult to fill. He was among the
last of the old traditionalists in the
House ; the last of the men with strong
views on the need for economy in
administration, for the independence of
Parliament of Ministerial and junta
control, and for strict legality and con-
sistency and mannerly conduct in
Parliamentary proceedings.
Son of a South Australian shearer and
small-farmer, one of a large family of
boys, he made his way upward from the
grassroots. He had little schooling, save
that which he acquired by his own read-
ing, which was extensive in his later
years. He enlisted before he was 19 in
the 27th Battalion, A.1.F., along with
young Tom Playford and other now-
prominent South Australians. He saw
the hard sid6 of the whole of the war in
France and came home as a quarter-
master-sergeant in 1919, having early in
the piece been severely gassed, though it
was many years before the effects fully
showed themselves.
He settled, on his return, in a
marginal wheat-area under conditions of
low rainfall, low prices and hard toil.
The problems of the wheatfarmer took
him into the South Australian State
Parliament in 1927, his electorate being
Wooroora. He resigned to stand for
the rich farming and winegrowing district
of Barker in the Federal House in 1934.
Nobody has even come near to defeating
him since.
He was, from the beginning, a deter-
mined logical debater, and an active and
forthright conversationalist. Having con-
tinued his military service in Intelligence
for a time, he knew more about Com-
munism than most members, and one ot
his first acts in the House was to move
for the expulsion of J. S. Garden on the
ground that he owed allegiance to an
inimical foreign Power. From then
onward he became a favorite target tor
vengeful attack by the Communists and
their followers and dupes of the A.L.r..
particularly in the early years of Worl
War 11. , r
He had been in the Federal Parlia-
ment only three years when he became
Assistant Minister for Commerce. ®
1938 he was P.M.G., transferring to m
charge of Commerce and the Navy, rv
was a hardworking and determine J
Minister, and proved himself, surpris-
ingly, a good conciliator. .
In September, 1939, he was elected
(Continued on next page)


Leader of the Country party in succes-
sion to Sir Earle Page, and was Deputy
Prime Minister and a member of the War
Cabinet. However, he broke with the
Country party on a matter of principle
and elected to sit with the U.A.P.,
sacrificing his Ministerial offices.
As a major in the C.M.F., he had
asked at the outbreak of war to be
allowed to go on the active list, and
eventually was given a post in Intelli-
gence, but Sir Thomas Blarney refused to
allow him to go overseas. He combined
his military with his Parliamentary duties,
and added the burden of the manage-
ment of the Parliamentary concerns of
A. M. Blain, the p.-0.-w. member for the
Northern Territory.
On the return of the Menzies Govern-
ment at the end of 1949 he was chosen as
Speaker, largely because the Government
parties desired to see in the Chair a
man who could be depended on to clean-
up the general looseness of administra-
tion which had characterised the manage-
ment of Parliament of the previous
regime. His performance of this duty did
not make him popular with a section of
the press and of members. But nobody
ever doubted his ruthless honesty of
purpose or his impartiality, which was
often a grievance with a Government
which became involved in a running
fight with him over the invasion of
Parliament House by administrative
departments and the appointments of
M.P.s to under-secretaryships and other
positions which he (with the backing of
House of Commons authorities) held to
be offices of profit under the Crown,
along with M.P.s’ pensions, for the grant-
ing of which he maintained that there
was no Constitutional authority.
On the social side he was hospitable
and gregarious, and was one of the most
popular members of his time —except
with the daily press of a certain type,
which never forgave him for the curtail-
ment of its privileges in the use of bars
and dining-rooms and other rooms
intended to be reserved for members.
His last illness was the result of an
attack of virus influenza which affected
his lungs and heart, already both afflicted
from the aftermaths of the World War I
gas-attack. It came at a time when he
was looking forward to enjoying the
results of the many years of personal hard
labor on his farm near Onkaparinga
(S.A.) in contouring, planting and fencing
it and in developing its stream and
stocking it with trout.
His work as Speaker, no less than his
forthright policy, will undoubtedly assure
a place for his name in Parliamentary
history.
POLITICAL POINTS
Slush? Shush l
• •
It used to be said that the main
purpose of a royal commission was to
whitewash someone. Apparently the
Queensland Government still holds this
belief.
• •
After a week’s pondering, Dr. Evatt
produced his solution to the Suez prob-
lem—turn it over to the U.N. Security
Council, which has “the plainest jurisdic-
tion to handle the dispute and halt any
warlike manoeuvres by the parties.”
Nationalisation was clearly within
Egypt’s jurisdiction, he said, but the
question of just compensation would need
to be determined by U.N. Until U.N.
dealt with the matter all threats of force
were contrary to international law and
the U.N. Charter. The use of force or
the threat of force to prevent nationalisa-
tion or to enforce a new international
authority were measures which would
savor of outmoded 19th-century gunboat-
diplomacy.
Evatt makes no suggestion for
alternative action if the veto should
prevent a solution, though he admits that
the veto “might prevent a speedy solu-
tion.” He speaks as though the Suez
problem is some little difference of
opinion between law-abiding citizens over
the cost of a dividing-fence—a matter
which merely has to be brought before a
court for calm discussion, after which
all parties will accept the court’s
decision.
Egypt has already ignored one U.N.
decision condemning its breach of the
1888 convention in refusing to allow
Israeli ships through the canal. In addi-
tion, Nasser has twice broken his
country’s pledged word—once by his
repudiation of the 1936 Treaty with
Britain and now by seizing the Suez
Canal when the constructing company’s
concession has still 12 years to run.
• •
As Opposition-leader in Australia
Evatt may feel he can afford to take an
aloof, legalistic view of things. Britain’s
Prime Minister Eden, with responsibilities
towards his own country and other mari-
time powers, has to keep his feet on the
ground. In his speech on Thursday he
told the world that Nasser had shown by
his actions that he could not be trusted
to keep an agreement. The canal was
not vital to Egypt, but it was to Britain
and many other countries. If Nasser’s
actions succeeded, “each one of us would
be at the mercy of one man for the
supplies upon which we live.”
Of the purpose of the London confer-
ence Eden said:
It is just that the canal must be run
efficiently and kept open, as it always has
been in the past, as a free and secure
waterway for the ships of all nations.
It must be run in the interests not of one
country, but of all. In our view this can
only be secured by an international body.
Of Britain’s troop movements he said:
Meanwhile, we have too much at risk
not to take precautions. We have done
so. .. .We.do not seek a solution by force,
but the broadest possible international
agreement. But this 1 must make plain:
We cannot agree that an act of plunder
which threatens the livelihood of many
nations will be allowed to succeed, and we
must make sure that the lives of the great
trading nations of the world cannot, in
the future, be strangled at any moment by
some interruption of the free passage of the
canal.
To Dr. Evatt this may be outmoded
gunboat-diplomacy, but anything less
than the precautions the U.K. Govern-
ment has taken would be dereliction of
duty.
• •
In Queensland the manager of the
Golden Brisket attributed the drop of
£70,000 in the turnover of his lottery
last year to “bad weather.” Must’ve
been that cold wind from Hobart!
• •
According to Clive Evatt the only
things the N.S.W. Government can make
pay are the breweries.
• •
The royal commission on the
Victorian Housing Commission has sug-
gested that as families in the houses most
recently built have a real difficulty in
meeting the high rent (£3 to £4), those in
commission houses erected when Costs
were lower should pay a little hiore, thus
permitting a reduction in the rent of new
units.
Private landlords aren’t allowed to jack-
up the rents of older properties to help
pay current inflated building costs; but
if you must have socialised housing, a
just socialised housing-system is better.
e 9
A Sydney alderman complains that the
uneven spacing of city trams involves
people in long waits, after which several
trams come along “all bunched together.”
You can’t please everyone. At peak-
hours people complain of the lack of
spacing on the trams, which results in
the passengers being all bunched together.
• •
Taxes on gambling brought the N.S.W.
Government close on £7 million last
financial year. Split-up: State Lottery,
■ £4,236,720 ; totalisator, £1,104,352 ;
PARTY FUNDS
“And, furthermore, you may quote me most emphatically in your
paper as stating that we get absolutely no contributions whatsoever from
Alcoholics Anonymous.”
betting-tax, £1,598,486. All three sources
brought in more than for the previous
year ; total increase, £214,102. This year
there’ll be the poker-machines contribut-
ing as well. No wonder an Anglican
bishop said the Government was “turn-
ing the Cabinet into a team of bookies
and our country into a gambling
machine.”
» •
Our economy is to get a vetting from
one of our creditors. The decision of the
International Bank to send a mission here
follows Menzies’s talks with the bank’s
chairman, Eugene Black; the mission-
aries will be Messrs. Karmarck and
Calika, who have been here before.
They’ll spend three weeks from August 22
obtaining first-hand knowledge of the
general position of the Australian
economy. Presumably they’ll be in the
House when Sir “Artie” delivers his
Budget speech.
• •
“F.”: Defence Department Secretary
Sir Frederick Shedden told the Public
Accounts Committee that Casey’s extra
£2-million aid for South-east Asia came
from the Defence vote. In Anglo-Saxon
England Danegeld was probably entered
under the same heading.
• •
Times are hard in Queen sland-—an other
“Labor” M.L.A. has had to take an
outside job to eke out his miserable
Parliamentary screw of £2lOB a year.
He’s M. T. Brosnan, member for Forti-
tude Valley; the job, manager of the
Carlton Hotel. Qualifications, electrician
with the Brisbane Transport Department
for many years; organiser in Electrical
Trades Union in 1944, later president.
M.L.A. since 1950.
“Mugga Way”:. Although the pundits
have been predicting a deadlock at the
Premieis’ Conference on wages policy,
due to meet in Canberra tomorrow, the
Federal Government is hopeful that the
Premiers will see reason on the prices and
profits angles. The States may be
reminded that they have been asked,
unsuccessfully, to take action to check the
profits of h.-p. companies, and they may
be invited to say what they think should
and can be done in the present political
and Constitutional set-up. Premiers’ Con-
ferences are open to the press. It has
been the experience of those attending
Loan Council meetings that in such
private gatherings those around the table
are more open to persuasion and appeals
to reason than are the same persons an
hour or two later in the limelight glare of
a Premiers’. Conference. Politics being
what they are,, the outcome of tomorrow’s
talks must be doubtful.
• •
Sydney barbers are trying to hop in
for their cut again:
• •
For years the maritime unions have
been claiming that when an Australian
shipowner purchases a vessel overseas
an Australian crew should be sent abroad
to take delivery and bring it out to Aus-
tralia. They have similarly claimed that
any Australian vessel sold to an overseas
buyer should be delivered by an Aus-
tralian crew, with wages and expenses
until arrival back in Australia. Last
February Foster, J., wrote these condi-
tions into an award.
The shipowners appealed against his
decision on the ground that the Arbitra-
tion Court had no jurisdiction in such
cases, as there was no “industrial dispute
extending beyond the limits of any one
State”; also that the Commonwealth
Government had no power to determine
who should be employed on a ship not
registered in Australia. On Friday the
Full High Court upheld this argument.
• •
In reply to a question on the retiring
age of 65 N.S.W. Chief Secretary Gus
Kelly said, “Yes, I’m over the hill.” But
not on the road to the poorhouse!
• •
“Stromlo”: With their pockets full of
well-earned high wages, about a thousand
workers are leaving Maralinga on com-
pletion of the atomic-weapons trials-
ground. Scientific staff and service
personnel are on their way to Australia
to complete the preparations begun by
an Australian Service Force for the next
series of atomic-weapons tests in the
Spring, under the direction of Sir William
Penney. Supply Minister Beale says that
no test will exceed “a very few tens of
kilotons in yield,” and that some will be
smaller. The decision to fire will be made
only after “eminent Australian scientists,
forming the Australian Government’s
atomic-weapons tests safety-committee,
have agreed, on their own independent
assessments of the fall-out patterns, that
conditions are safe.”
• •
Eight Federal M.P.s are in the party
of 12, led by Sir John Latham, at present
visiting Formosa. They comprise Messrs.
Gorton, Henty, Wentworth and Wheeler
(Libs.); Lucock (C.P.); Morgan and
Willesee (“Labor”); Cole (Anti-Corn.
Lab.). The other three guests of Chiang
Kai-shek are Professor Leicester Webb
of Canberra University, Ernie O’Dea,
former Lord Mayor of Sydney, and
Major J. F. Martin (Sir John Northcott’s
private secretary).
• •
“C.C.”: First ads. for television-sets
are now appearing in the Melbourne
dailies, priced at an unattractive 200
guineas or so, without, apparently, the
antenna. Cheaper sets in Britain cost
about £7O Australian, and maintenance
£7 or £8 a year, giving an Australian
equivalent for maintenance, based on
original costs, of £2O. Add a fiver
licence-fee, and there’s another ten-bob a
week to enjoy the basement of the arts.
• •
“In the ACT”: News-broadcasters
found a little difficulty in announcing the
name of the first Commissioner for the
Federation of Malaya in Australia —and
the news-services found more difficulty in
understanding the embargo placed by
External Affairs Department on the
announcement—a release at 8 a.m.! The
appointee, now making a preliminary visit
to Australia to examine the establishment
of his office, is Dato Nik Ahmed Kamil
Bin Haji Mahood, C.8.E., who will take
up permanent residence soon. His duties
will be concerned mainly with trade
promotion, publicity, and the welfare of
Malayan students in Australia. Casey
gave a welcome lead when he referred to
the new Commissioner as “Dato Nik
Kamil” —a form which can be memorised
with comparative ease.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
COULDN’T help thinking when
I saw a magazine-poster: “Ex-
husband Exposes Marilyn” that Marilyn
was ’way out in front of him there.—
“Jon Lyn.”
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Dent”: Flat-tops for flatheads.
♦> ❖
“Brother X”: No Government aid is
what we get for beating The Kings
School at football.
“Willpar”: The art of the sculptor
which embellishes many city buildings
appears to be giving way to the art of
the foundry. An example of the modern
trend now looks down on Sydney’s main
street from over the door of the Common-
wealth Bank’s new building. Three pre-
sumably male figures are depicted in a
single metal mould. Hollow eyes and
cheeks and Belsen bellies are made no
less hideous by sunken ear-cavities. Any-
body’s guess is as good as mine as to
what they represent, but ,my surmise is
that they represent three unfortunates
who have just had their ears bashed by
an unsympathetic bank-manager and
have come away without that expected
loan.
❖ *l* ❖
“Wattlebird”: Lunched at the Berkeley
Hotel in London with a very English
Englishman, who spoke with parental
pride of his son, about to receive his
“blue” for services rendered on the play-
ing-field of an English public school.
The ceremony had had to be postponed
because on the big day our hero was
left lying in the mud with a broken arm.
“Plenty of pluck and all that sort of
thing. Never a murmur out of him even
after it had begun to set and they jolly
well had to break it again. One thing,
he said he did tell that chappie off,
though.” Lying face-down in the mud
with his arm broken the boy had said,
“Are you aware that you have broken
my bloody arm?” It’s almost worthy of
Cranbrook.
❖ *
“Mac Hoots”: Of all the singing-
commercials which now enchant the air,
none so intrigues me as the tender
lullaby:
Johnson’s baby-powder,
Johnson’s baby-producks, s
Made by specialists in baby-care
Especially for baby.
Astonishingly, in its sentimental way, it
makes quite a pretty song. Who was the
genius who realised that the singularly
unpretentious words of this advertisement
could be broken-up into three unex-
ceptionable three-foot lines of trochees,
relieved by a five-beat line, also in
trochees? Was he inspired by the patter
of little feet?
“Cash Count”: See what they call visit-
ing American Baptist Dr. Elbert Gates:
“Pearly”?
♦>
“Doynest”: An anxious voice inquired
over the telephone about allowances pay-
able to workmen sent to do distant jobs in
the industry whose interests I serve. I
read out the award-requirements—fares
paid each way, travelling-time paid for,
so much a week if living away from home,
and so on. Then the inquirer said:
“Supposing these chaps go to the pictures
while they’re living-away? I want to do
the fair thing by them, you know!”
Picture-money! The way things are
going, we may yet see such an item in
our award.
♦♦♦
“Y.”: Passed a crowd outside a shop-
window display on Sydney’s Wynyard
and was intrigued to note that there were
“He's finding it so hard to keep up the instalments he cant
afford to buy petrol."
only three or four women among the 30
or 40 men pushing and craning to watch
a young fellow in the window delicately
icing cakes.
♦>
“Kitsboy”: The milkman told me that
a can a few doors away had a note
alongside it: “3 wickets, please.”
❖ ♦♦♦ *x*
“Pioneer Paddy”: I’ve been browsing
through a scrapbook kept by a friend’s
father. All the newspaper-reports in it
are more than 80 years old. My favorite
is the description of a court case heard in
Hobart in which the defendant is a youth
(charge not stated). He calls his mother
for the defence and she tells his counsel
“Two meat-pies and one of those, please.”
“I can swear that my son worked on a
farm from the day of his birth.” In
due course she is passed over for cross-
examination: —
“My good woman, do you swear that your
son worked on a farm from the day he was
born?”
“Would ybu tell the court what he did the
first year?”
“He milked.”
A p
“Becks”: The great thing about old
yarns is that they’re always new to some-
one. In 1933 the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror” listed under the heading “The
Chestnut Tree” the old yams and gags
that were sent in most frequently by
contributors as alleged personal
experiences. The chestnuts were arranged
more-or-less in order of frequency and
first on the list was the story of the man
(or woman) with the umbrellas. Con-
densed, it runs like this: Man picks up
wrong umbrella in shop or restaurant;
corrected by owner, apologises. Later
collects two of the family’s umbrellas
which have been in for repairs. With
these and his own brolly, he boards a
tram and sits down opposite the party
whose gamp he picked up earlier in the
day. Party comments icily, “I see you've
had a good day.” I repeat the story with-
out apology because aVlast, it seems, it's
happened. A Sydney “Telegraph”
columnist placed the umbrella-story
(minus the final quip) at the top of his
“Town Talk” column last week with the
comment, “You’re not going to believe
this story, but you must try, because it’s
true.”
»♦, ,* 4 *
“Sir Jay”: Rummaging through a 1926
file I discovered a letter from a scion of
one of the better-known squatter-families,
apologising for not having answered a
letter sooner. His excuse was that he had
just rediscovered the letter in the pocket
of a suit which he wore only to funerals,
1 suppose after years of big wool-cheques
he not only has a suit for funerals but one
for marriages and another for christen-
ings. If it comes to that; so have I, but
mine happens to be the same one.
A A
“Peter Piper”: Queensland’s free hos-
pital-service might well be the envy of
southern States (B. 20/6/’56), but if you
really want to drive anybody mad with
green-eyed rage send a deputation up to
the Mandated Territory of New Guinea,
Here, we don’t muck about. Medical ser-
vice is not only free but you don’t even
have to apply for it: we send patrols out
to look for customers, accompanied, if
necessary, by armed police. Free trans-
port is provided to and from hospital,
and to make you feel at home you can
bring along your parents, kids, uncles and
grandmothers. Australia pays for the lot.
Only if you happen to be an Australian
do you have to pay.
“Val”: The gramophone-record and
British television-broadcast of childbirth
make me wonder why the effect is
publicised and the cause censored. Ah,
well, love is blind, of course, and it never
was strong on logic either.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Vincit”: In response to his urgent
summons I threw wide my paint-peeled
portals to the dignified, elderly caller,
who, in manner reminiscent of the
Carolingian period, doffed his ancient felt,
and presented a small, orange-colored
package containing a genuine spot- and
stain-banisher. My resolution never to
encourage such gentry weakened by this
touching display of old-world courtesy, I
coughed-up two-shillings. I rediscovered
the unopened package when tidying a cup-
board. Since its resemblance to much-
advertised soapflakes seemed more than
coincidental, I popped the contents into
the copper next wash-day. If it was not
Messrs. Blank and Blank’s product, it was
certainly a close relative. Two-shillings
an ounce-packet must have netted a small
fortune, more because of hat-removal
than stain-removal,
“Bulletina”: A young thing left a
bottle of suntan in my house half full. I
was throwing it away, when I thought
it looked very like furniture-polish oil.
Triedit: excellent; cleans and polishes!
What are they giving us?
* *** *
~,„ , T . „ .. .
, °™ W - 1 Ne k w Zea, . ands b 'BS«>
chain-stores have been cashing-in on the
Springbok* with ,green-striped boiled
swee,s caUed Bokballs.
* * *
A S O.C. of a specialist non-combatant
unit stationed on the Atherton Table-
land in 1943, I was called with my 2 i/c
on some court-of-inquiry business in
Cairns. We were billeted in a pub next-
door to a hostelry occupied by U.S.
forces, fitted with a luxurious swimming-
pool. The court-of-inquiry was soon oyer,
and grogging-on began, but the beer failed
to drown my resentment at exclusion
from the swimming-pool in the Yankee-
occupied pub. When the time came to
retire I and my equally-elevated side-kick,
wearing only underpants and dressing-
gowns, crossed the border into the U.S.-
occupied pub and crept to the deserted
swimming-pool, unlit but beckoning
invitingly in the moonlight. Sloughing
my dressing-gown, I made a careful dive
and hit the bone-dry bottom, sustaining
a broken collarbone and so winding
myself that I remained inarticulate, while
my 2 i/c brought the startled Yanks
running with his frantic yell: “He hasn’t
come up yet! ” After being fished out, I
made a clandestine visit to a co-operative
civilian M. 0., who set the broken collar-
bone without asking any questions,
Luck was with me, and my Army medical
history is by that much incomplete.—
“Andy.”
HIGH FARES
“An American scientist paid £2OOO excess-luggage fare on scientific equipment for his trip
to San Francisco by airliner from Sydney.”
“See this American scientist loading his paraphernalia ?
Two thousand pounds excess-fare on it —'Frisco by air from A ustralia /”
“Why couldn’t he send it the safe way, when he’s not counting the cost ?
For that much, he could have railed it from Sydney to Bourke, almost.”
“His zeal to go with it to ’Frisco may seem to A ustralians excessive,
But railing it almost to Bourke might not be considered progressive.”
“I know when Americans travel, they’re faster than any alive,
But we of an older tradition account it a crime to arrive.”
“Perhaps all this passion for speed is one of our modern-world crazes,
But tell me, what is your objection to what the Yanks call ‘going places’ ?”
“Well, look at the New South Wales railways; they’re wise, don’t you think, to fall
short % ' 1 ■ '
When they know that the way they are going they’ll end in the Bankruptcy Court ?
“I bow, my dear sir, to your wisdom, and hope what you say may confirm in us
Our habit of raising the fares and not going on io the terminus”
N.S.w.
SWILLIAM.


A SHORT POEM ON COLONEL
NASSER
Whassa masser
Colonel Nasser?
n.s.w. MacHoosh.
$ *
ANOTHER of the little rackets prac-
tised—as a good example to all —by
the N.S.W. Railways is that if, up the
line anywhere, you take a ticket to
Wynyard and then decide to go on to
Town Hall you are charged an extra
shilling—sixpence for the fare and six-
pence “penalty” for changing your mind.
-“S.”
* ❖ ❖
“Pioneer Paddy”: A postmistress
friend, relieving at the post-office at
Ouse, in the south of Tasmania, had a
busy manual-exchange to look after.
Several people booked trunk-calls to
Hobart on the first few days. When she
got the numbers, she would say crisply,
“Is that BX1234? One moment, please.
Ouse calling.” Each time she swears the
Hobart number replied, “I don’t know ;
you tell me.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“MacFadden”: Apropos “Agricola’s”
par. (B. 18/7/’56), in which it was sug-
gested that Fadden’s allowable deduction
of £130 for a wife was not even the
price of a good washing-machine, it
should be remembered that the 130-quid
should be regarded as a depreciation-
allowance, and not as an estimate of
capital cost.
* ' ❖
“Zake”: Among entrepreneurs this
would be the million-to-one shot, and it’s
not likely to bob up again this century
or the next. By poor staff-work, both
the A.B.C. and R. J. Kerridge picked the
week beginning July 30 to present the
world-ranking violinist each had
touring. On Saturday August 4
both Mischa Elman and Christian
Ferras gave recitals at Sydney Town
Hall within a few hours of each other,
and each programme included the same
work—Saint-Saens’s “Introduction and
Rondo Capriccioso.”
❖ ♦> ♦*»
“O.F.”: I see they’re selling milk in
tubes like toothpaste—which only goes
to confirm that there’s no new thing
under the sun. Thirty or 40 years, ago
we used to get all our milk in tubes—
four of ’em, attached to the under-
carriage of the cow.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Mullum”: Maybe English racing-
commentators don’t measure up to their
Australian counterparts (B. 18/7/’56),
but I sometimes wonder how accurate
the local callers are. My faith in cricket-
descriptions received a severe blow when
I sat on “The Hill” with a portable radio ;
the broadcast match was much more
exciting than the one I was watching.
Only by constantly checking the scores
"Don't bend 'em so much — they're cornin' back!"
was I able to believe that the com-
mentator and I were watching the same
match.
♦> * *
t „ .
Weg : While it is often said that we
hve in the age of the specialist, it can
by no means be said that this applies to
shopkeepers. Having seen grocery-stores
selling fruit, newspaper-shops selling toys,
ornaments and jewellery, and hardware-
stores selling clocks, I have now seen the
ultimate just outside Manly (N.S.W.).
Hus one is modelled after the style of an
American drugstore. Inside is a complete
chemist s shop ; a milk-bar with confec-
tionery and smokes; a camera-section ; a
sports-section ; jewellery ; and a complete
range of a well-known brand of garden-
seeds.
“Dicky”: “Doric” (B.
25/7/’56) stirs some happy
memories. Next time he goes
to Italy he must have a bath
at the railway-station in
Rome. Spotless tiled bath-
rooms, bath-attendants, soap
and towels, all for a few
pence. After travelling,
camping and picnicking
round Italy in our ex-London
taxi, often washing in,
literally, a cup of water, we
five girls descended on this
paradise the moment it
opened on our first morning
in Rome, throwing the
attendants into panic and our-
selves into ecstasy —a lovely,
steamy pandemonium. There
was even a button to press
while you were in the bath.
I didn’t really want anything,
but I pressed the thing any-
how, and when the lass came
scuttling in, gave her a note
to deliver to one of my
friends, wishing her a “very
happy bathday.” Only people
like “Doric” didn’t raise an
eyebrow when they asked “And what
did you do in Rome?” and received an
enthusiastic chorus of “Oh, we had a
bath.”
<J4
“G.M.”: Our baker is one of those
rare people without a worry in the world.
So admirable if fate does not make them
responsible for any part of one’s own
destiny. We share him with a near
neighbor who does a lot of entertaining.
By lunch on the day of one of the lady’s'
parties the baker hadn’t turned-up, leav-
ing her practically no time in which to
make sandwiches. She rang the bakery,
and was assured that he was on his way.
But he didn’t arrive at all. Next day,
when she assailed him for not coming,
he out with the remark of the week:
“Oh, well, I can’t get around to every-
body.”
4> <•> ❖
“Sparks": The Victorian Government
is reported to have bought 10 diesel-
electric locomotives worth £1,200,000 on
the never-never system. The thought of a
couple of bailiffs going out to repossess
because of h.-p. arrears is an intriguing
one.
* ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Admirers of the British
sculptor Henry Moore will be interested
to learn that he’s been commissioned to
sculpt a statue for one of the entrances
to the two main buildings of the new £2-
million headquarters of Unesco in south
Paris. And if Unesco is building a brand-
new world Moore’s statues may well be
a preview of the people in it —they
certainly aren’t a view of anyone we
know.
* *> ❖
“Gee Gee”; He sat beside me in the
bus on our v»ay home ; a meat-worker he
said, 21, worried about making-out his
income-tax return. His earnings were
just a few pounds under £lloo—he had
a very menial job. His main concern
was “deductions.” I went through the
various items with him: no medical or
dental expenses, no insurance (didn’t
believe in it), so his only deduction was
trade-union fees. As a final thought I
reminded him that bank-interest would
have to be put in. “Oh, I’ve got no
banking-account,” he said. “What? No
bank-book?” I said. “You must have a
lot of loose cash lying about at home
with that salary!” “Loose cash?” he
replied. “Look—if I have a bad trot at
the races on a Saturday Mum has to
wait another week for me board-money.”
There’s always the pension when you’re
old.
“Are we keeping you out of bed, Unk?"
“Pioneer Paddy”: Having taught some
migrant-friends about 300 of our simple
words, I held a test of their knowledge
of words which are pronounced the same
but have different spelling. We dealt with
“here” and “hear,” “there” and “their,”
etc., and then I said slowly and impres-
sively, “Spell me the word ‘father’ when
it means a relation as opposed to
distance?” My pupil from Poland gave"
me a long look of pity, before saying
glibly, “D-A-D.”
»i« +t+
“Sevenelms”: First morning out from
San Francisco, and the Santa Fe Chief
was scooting eastward a little better than
sixty. The washroom looked its usual
clatter of verbal bonhomie as the
intending users of safety- and electric-
shavers nudged, nodded and smiled
towards a lanky Australian at the comer
basin nonchalantly taking off the stubble
with a good old cutthroat. General
Douglas MacArthur, when he retired from
the Army to adorn a commercial position,
had to abandon his trusty “Bengals.”
He had become president of a razor-
corporation. Last week I dropped in to
a suburban barber for a haircut. He did
the little touches at the backs of ears
with a safety-razor—and to think that,
only a century or so back, one of his
craft would have removed my gall-
stones !
♦J, ♦3«
“Wattlebird”: “Wife talked me into a
middle-age check-up,” the bloke at work
told us, “and the doc. says I’m a hundred
per cent.” “That’s good news for you,”
one of his mates commented. “Oh, I
don’t know about that,” he said dole-
fully. “There must be lots of things
they can’t find in one of those routine-
checks that they give everyone!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Geep”: Junior was not impressed by
the remnants of a long-neglected stamp-
collection of mine. “You were a poor old
philanthropist, Dad,” he remarked.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Unicorn”: Passing a Sydney tele-
phone-box at night I saw a fully-grown
man hunched up on the small shelf on
which the phone stands. The space
wouldn’t accommodate a child com-
fortably, yet he had squeezed into it,
knees under chin, and was apparently
engaging in a long, cosy conversation.
As another specimen, I’ve had to wait
outside a public call-box while a migrant
had a 20-minutes’ lesson in English from
someone at the other end.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Boro-Belle”: A regular advertiser in
The Bulletin some years ago was Sir
Robert Bear, a Sydney bookseller —the
title was merely a baptismal name. Our
Mackay newsagent, the late George
Wood, selected some rare books to be
delivered to the cabin he had booked on
the Peregrine. When he boarded the
steamer, a gold-braided chief-steward
escorted him to his cabin, where he found
his package addressed: “Sir George
Wood.” He was given a seat at the
captain’s table. At Flat Top anchorage all
the passengers lined the rail to see him
board the Mackay tender, whose captain
amazed everyone with the time-worn
greeting: “Hullo, Woodsie, who keeps the
pub in Sydney now?” “Sir” George just
smiled.
♦j* *3*
“Kenyas”: Mention of Cornwall’s poet-
parson, R. S. Hawker (B. 1/8/’56) —he
wrote the words of the famous
“Trelawney”—recalls a yam I heard
about him in the Duchy. A rigid High-
churchman, this eccentric vicar of Mor-
wenstow had a hatred of Methodism.
When the Methodist minister fell sick he
wrote a note to Hawker asking him to
bury a Methodist who had inconveniently
died, and added that he hoped the task
of burying a nonconformist would not
be too distasteful. Back came Hawker’s
message: “Nothing would make me
more happy than to bury the lot.”
THE NEW BOOKIE’S FAVORITE
“The old conception of the bookmaker as a
coarse, half-educated, loudly-dressed fellow is
passing. Many fielders are among our best-
dressed men. Several I know are very well read,
and delight in Shakspeare and the Greek
classics.” —Sporting writer.
The old-time bookie oft would choose
A royal-blue suit with ox-blood shoes
To beat another
Near by, who favored bright-green hats,
Or wore fawn suits with lemon spats.
And, like his brother-
Fielder, he didn’t have a clup
On cultural things. For all HE knew
Publius Cyrus
May have been some imported moke,
The latest strain of artichoke,
Or some new virus.
His reading was confined to page
Which gave the sire and dam and age
Of all the neddies;
The hickey-hocks, the latest form -—
These were his, intellectual norm.
Also the deadies.
His favorite books —they were, in fact,
His only ones —showed what were backed
And what they’d yielded.
All other literature was quite
Redundant in the clouded sight
Of all who fielded.
It’s quite a change, you will allow,
That’s come upon the paddock now —
No loud earbashin’;
In A.B.C. tones they perform
Their toil. And they’re the “mould of
form,”
The “glass of fashion.”
And when the mugs have gone their way
After the last race of the day,
Do books forgather
To play the “bandits ” soak up grog,
To yap of form of nag and dog
Or similar blather?
No! Could you see them you would
find
Them busy nourishing the mind.
They deem the bottle
And cards which once had left them
dulled
Incomparable to wisdom culled
From Aristotle.
So when you next part with your wad
To some fair-spoken short-odds bod.
Reflect, I pray you,
You’re thereby helping him to get
A library of classics . . . Yet,
Wouldn’t it slay you ?
N.S.W.
S. W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
As Administrator of Australia during
the absence abroad of Governor-General
Slim, General Sir John Northcott can
be expected to fill the temporary gap
adequately. As Governor of N.S.W. he
has been an outstanding success, uphold-
ing the dignity of his office and at the
same time earning the affection of the
people. At Sydney Town Hall functions
he has been noted moving among the
Lord Mayor’s guests with an interest and
warm friendliness not often seen on
formal occasions.
JOHN CURWEN PENNY, well known
in Brisbane, a Maryborough (Q.) product
who made his mark in sugar on both
scientific and executive sides, and has
since branched into other fields of
commerce.
Desmond Norman, commercial artist
and student of anthropology, has bagged
the A.N.Z. Bank’s 100-guinea first-prize
with a landscape of an old barn on the
Murray. It will hang in the London
head-office. Norman, who earns his daily
crust at Mac. Robertson’s, has a love of
the Murray country, gives only part of
his holidays to painting it and the balance
to digging up aboriginal ovens; has
excavated remains of ancient feasts, bones
of humans and animals, axe-heads, and
one perfect skull. He’s 26.
• •
Very substantial reasons why John
Ernest (“Jock”) Simmie, managing-
director of the building-firm of Simmie
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, should
be as well known in Canberra as he is
in Melbourne: he built the Australian
War Memorial, the Institute of Anatomy,
the United States Embassy, St. Andrew’s
Cathedral and other buildings which do
the Federal capital proud. Among Mel-
bourne jobs, the widely-famed forecourt
of the Shrine of Remembrance. Born
at Moama (N.S.W.), he went to Echuca
State School and learned the trade of
carpenter with a local firm of builders.
First A.1.F., 21st. Bn,; torpedoed on the
Southland (where 32 Australians, includ-
ing Richard Linton, commander of six
Bde., were lost) on the way to Gallipoli;
and badly wounded in France. Invalided
home in ’l7, he started work in the Com-
monwealth Audit Office, under Colonel
Lang, who encouraged him to study
accountancy. Collected a string of
accountancy and secretarial diplomas, and
went into business. Apart from building,
he’s interested in sheep, raises Dorset
Horns on his property near Melbourne.
“JOCK" SIMMIE
“Red Dam” on one of Kipling’s “men
of little showing”:
Banksiadale, a small bush-town in Westralia’s
big-timber country, for a few years during the
1920’s had a remarkable schoolteacher, John
Richardson. He taught a handful of pupils,
including a dozen boys from 10 to 15 years.
Hard to sum-up the influence of a man like
John Richardson on boys that age —but it was
there, and it stuck.
Between bouts of Henry Lawson, Tom Collins
and “Banjo” Paterson, John aimed, as he often
told us, to rough into shape an Australian
Prime Minister. His ambition, as yet, isn’t
realised, but most of that bunch have had
their moments. Two years ago, one led in a
Perth Cup winner; another landed back in
England after the first successful solo break
from one of Hitler’s p.-0.-w. camps; another
became world champion speedway bike-rider—
last year at Claremont, at 44, he broke the
lap-record. This could go on a long way; but
I must mention the boy who’s now Western
Australia’s leading trainer-reinsman in the light-
harness sport; the two blokes who reached the
top as lightweight-boxers; and two brothers who
played League football for East Perth —one got
a State guernsey—and are still with their old
club, one secretary, the other selector.
No Prime Ministers, but it’s a list of spirited
activities. Fostering that intangible in
youngsters must be ranked among J.R.’s contri-
butions. And love of country, certainly: in
fact, after Hitler erupted, three of them gave
their lives for it.
For myself, as one of that privileged bunch,
if this makes The Bulletin I’m content.
• •
“Uramao”: The Jewish community of
Wellington (N.Z.) is to have a new Rabbi,
E. M. Levy succeeding Rabbi H.
Stransky, who has gone to Brooklyn, New
York. Rabbi Levy was at one time in
charge of Sydney’s Great Synagogue.
• •
W. L. Shortland steps into M. Gran-
nell’s shoes as g.-m. of N.R.M.A. Insur-
ance, Ltd., the concern that started with
no capital 31 years ago and now has
assets worth more
than £4 million (this
feat of finance was made
possible, in the first
instance, by 20 guaran-
tors providing a wind-
break against possible
claims to the extent of
£lOO a head: guarantees
cancelled, with thanks,
in 12 months). The
new man is 47, went
to Sydney Grammar,
went into accountancy,
was secretary to a manu-
facturing company, and
was entered on present
payroll in 1942. Played
grade - cricket with
Northern District,
grade-hockey, competi-
tion tennis, and is a keen
golfer. Like most
accountants of sporting
tastes, he was roped-in
on the administrative
side early—an interest-
ing list could be made of
figure-devillers in top
executive jobs (honor-
ary) on sporting bodies
in all States —and has
done this sort of thing
with various clubs. Has
been a Pennant Hills Golf Club
committeeman for many years.
• •
Knowledge, like gold, is where you find
it. G. G. K. Smith, assistant-manager
of the National Bank of Australasia in
Perth, went off to attend a short
advanced-course in management —at the
University of Hawaii.
• •
H. F. B. Haynes: Apropos Archdeacon
Chesterfield, of Wangaratta (Vic.), retiring
to take up land (B. 18 /7 / ’56) —
Archdeacon Haynes, Rector of St. Paul’s,
Bendigo (Vic.), retired from the church in
December, 1923, and took up land in the
Naracoorte (S.A.) district. It was my
good luck he did, or I would most likely
not be writing from the above address
[Hotel Adelphi, Perth], where I am
holidaying from the same bit of dirt my
father developed. He was called to
Higher Duties in 1942.
• •
“C.C.”: Maurice Farrow, young Mel-
bourne hotelier, is now dosing himself
with vitamins to make up deficiencies
lost while working in some of the best
European hotels. He went away, from
Melbourne’s Australia, a ldtehen-hand,
with little experience aside from gradua-
tion from the noted William Angliss
food-school; on his return in May
Bruce Matear, managing-director of the
Australia, asked him to sit-in for him
while he went abroad to get some more
schooling, too. Farrow, a grave,
deliberate, imperturbable fellow, worked
as receptionist, cashier, waiter, account-
ant and junior executive in Paris, Zurich,
Rome, Copenhagen and Oslo, all for
wretched wages: his highest screw was
£6 a week in Rome, where living-costs
are higher than in Sydney or Melbourne.
Between whiles he rode a scooter across
Europe from Rome to Trondheim, and
across the U.S. and Japan. A friend
asked him if the perfect hotel was
possible. “No, because one impossible
stipulation must be made,” he said slowly.
“You would require a perfect clientele!’
• •
Charles McKay, new State president of
the Victorian R.S.L., defeated Norman
Wilson in a secret ballot. It was not an
easy choice: Norman Wilson had been
a very active worker indeed for the
R.S.L. ; Charlie McKay’s amiable dignity
had charmed the previous R.S.L. confer-
ence, in 1955, when he acted as president.
These days Charles McKay is a grazier
at Beaufort, in the Western District; after
the First War he took up land in the
Wimmera, and he is now reputed to be
one of the finest judges of wool in the
land. Has been on the R.S.L.’s Land
Settlement Committee for 21 years. He
plays golf, except when an old war-wound
in the back misbehaves and makes him
pick-up a stick simply to walk.
• •
“D.”: Friends at Melbourne Uni-
versity of Dr. Thomas H. Coates, new
headmaster of Wesley (Methodist)
College, have one reservation about their
former senior lecturer in Education. “His
generosity is—er —remarkable,” one told
me, when the appointment was
announced. “Last year he went to India
Speaker Archie Cameron, modelled by Frith.
as a visual-education specialist on a
Unesco project. He took our beautiful
daylight-projection apparatus with him,
and the Indians were so enthralled with
it, he gave it to them! Now we’ve just
managed to get another.” The new head,
at 44, is a Bachelor of Science and Master
of Education (Melb.), Doctor of
Philosophy (Lond.), chairman of the Aus-
tralian Student Christian Movement,
former Director of Army Education,
skilled at do-it-yourself pursuits, and a
hopeless cricketer.
• • -
Rolf Eduard ten Seldam, a 50-year-old
graduate of Leyden University’s famous
medical school, who is still awaiting Aus-
tralian naturalisation, takes the Chair of
Pathology at the Westralian University.
Since graduating in 1932 he has been a
pathologist in Dutch hospitals, an officer
of the Royal Netherlands East Indian
Army reserve, and director of the N.E.I.
Cancer Institute at Bandoeng. Interned
by the Japanese, he scored a “mention”
for his work in p.-0.-w. camps in Java and
Sumatra. From 1947 to 1952 he was
director of pathology of the Roman
Catholic hospitals in Eindhoven, Holland.
Since 1954 he has been reader and senior
lecturer in pathology in the University of
Sydney, two years an executive officer of
the research committee of the N.S.W.
Cancer Council and (last year) hon. sec. of
the pathology section of the N.S.W.
branch of the B.M.A.
FRANK EGERTON
Back in World War I a small English
boy, looking up at some tall Diggers at his
father’s table, had the idea he’d come to
Australia some day. Whether one can
trace the arrival of Frank Egerton five
years ago in Sydney to this experience or
not —small boys have many ambitions—
it’s a complimentary sort of memory. He
came out to fill the job of assistant-
manager for Australia of the Royal
Exchange Assurance group, and two years
ago became manager. Always on the
move, he was sketched in Adelaide while
on an inspection-tour of S.A. and W.A.
• •
“F.McK.”: Professor Marcus Oliphant,
interviewed amid the smells and
paraphernalia of his calling at the National
University, Canberra, soon after his return from
Russia (where he was a guest of the Academy
of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.), told writer that
his outstanding impression of the visit was the
number of well-trained young scientists and
technologists now in Russia; this the result of
a long-term approach to scientific training. In
Moscow he attended a domestic conference on
the physics of high-energy particles, to which
some 50 foreign scientists had been invited.
Twelve from U.S.A., six from U.K., three
from France, two from Canada, and the others
from Europe, China and India. Proceedings
were on a high level, discussion was vigorous
and informed, and all who attended the
conference gained from it. He addressed the
Accelerator .Session, and, among other interesting
trips, had a look at the new institute at the
junction of the Volga with the Volga-Moscow
Canal, about 80 miles north of Moscow. There
is housed the largest accelerator in the world,
which Oliphant estimates would cost the
equivalent of £25 million Australian.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 76, Robert Hugh
Howell, whose commission in the Bengal
Lancers was signed by Queen Victoria. Royal
Flying Corps War 1, and officer-in-charge of
flying-control at Harewood ’drome (Christ-
church) in War 11.
At Burnie (Tas.), at 65, F. M. de Bomford,
Old Digger, who had been secretary to the
Tasmanian Potato Marketing Board since 1941.
He had lived in various parts of the island
before settling on the north-west coast.
At Bathurst (N.S.W.), at 73, Robert Clifton
Webb, chairman of the P.P. Board for several
terms, vice-president of the A.H. and P.
Association, exhibitor of show Shorthorns, and
Western District cricketer of other days. Born
on his father’s property, Keirstone, Tarana, he
ran his portion of the place for many years
before disposing of it to his sons.
In Brisbane, at 78, Andrew Balfour Carrodus,
sportsman; interested in Rugby Union, rifle-
shooting, bowls, fishing. Life-member of the
Australian Fisherman’s Association, patron of
the Queensland Game Fishing Association, and
claimed to be the first angler to catch a marlin
in Queensland waters. A Mason, past-Grand
Master, he was born in Yorkshire, came to
Australia before he was 10, ran stores in Gympie,
Kingaroy and Murgon, and retired to
Brisbane 30 years ago.
In Sydney, at 53, N.S.W. Soccer administrator
' Bill Tennant. Playing for the Scottish club
Motherwell before coming to Australia he was
one of Scotland’s leading goal-scorers. Brother
of Tom and Alec, both also well known W
Soccer (Tom played in Tests for Australia).
In Brisbane, at 55, Leonard Eastment, Labor
M. for Ithaca since 1952; he entered Parlia-
ment at a by-electjon following the death ot
Queensland Premier E. M. Hanlon. He was
president of Queensland Soccer Football
Association, f
In Sydney, at 67, A. W. Anderson, who began
in a small way and built-up a substantial mea
and smallgoods concern based in N.S.W.,
with inter-State interests; he pioneered country
killing in the State. The parent company
(turned into a public co. in 1953) has big mea -
works on the N.S.W.-Queensland border and
depots in Sydney and Newcastle; a subsidiary,
Anderson’s Sausages, leases meatworks on tn
N. North Coast (including a 40-years lease
of Norco Co-op.’s Byron Bay works) >
latest-, Byron Whaling, is the only shore-base
whaling-station in N.S.W. Anderson started
the “One Parliament for Australia movem >
but it failed him as a platform when he contested
a seal in the 1943 Federal election.


FOR DEMONSTRATION ONLY


ABORIGINALITIES
instrumentalists are not
now as prevalent as they once were,
though an odd one bobs up with fiddle
or squeeze-box to jog your memory of
old nights when the accordionist sat with
back to wall, a mournful look on his dial
and one tapping heel punctuating the
measure.
A memorable accompanist to the
accordion-player was the gumleaf-player.
The best leaves came from orange- or
lemon-trees, but that in no way reflected
on the status of the instrumentalist as a
gumleaf-player. Leaf and accordion
combined harmoniously.
Pianists were fairly common, their
main fault mediocrity. The good ones
were all right, and the bad ones excusable
as triers, but the mediocre players were
just plain hell. Some quite good pianists
had “picked it up themselves,” playing
"I think it's high time we became naturalised, Johann !”
by ear and not knowing a written note of
music.
Every community had its fiddle-scraper
or two, though some sounded more
promising in the tuning-up than when
actually playing.
The cornet-players, easily recognised
by their protruding eyeballs, were useful
musicians at times. The few of them
who survived did so through having the
nous to do their practising outside gun-
shot-range of the nearest listener.
F. W.
“J.P.C.”: An impressive sight is an
acre of cockatoos forming a dense
whiteness when feeding'on a paddock of
onion-weed and, when disturbed, taking
flight, the effect being of an enormous
lace-worked cloth unfurled against the
horizon, then being allowed to fall gently
when the birds settle once more on the
ground. The poetry of the motion,
however, is a trifle marred by the hearty
curses of the white blokes at the intrusion
on their tucker-time.
* * * *
“Tullah”: The mining community of
Tullah, in western Tasmania, claims to be
the only township in Australia which
hasn’t a road leading into it. The town
is linked to Farrell Junction, on the Emu
Bay line, by a six-mile narrow-gauge
railway, and all supplies are hauled along
this by a quaint-looking locomotive known
as “Wee Georgie Wood.” Tullah pro-
duced the first silver-ore in the Mount
Farrell district some 60 years ago. The
Mackintosh and Murchison, two branches
of the Pieman River, run along each side
of the Mount.
* • * *
“Sackfair”: Two aspects of the wild
birds’ attitude towards an escapee from
cage or aviary: In a district where both
magpies and currawongs abound I saw
a domesticated maggie go bush; from
then on he invariably flew with the flock
—of currawongs! Again, the sparrow is
generally a pugnacious bloke, but for
more than a year a blue budgerigar
was one-of-the-mob with a flock of spags
that regularly visited me. Incidentally,
four or five times I’ve seen pied-spags
amongst flocks of the normal-plumaged
kind. Most other birds gang-up and set-
upon any of their fellows that seem
different —a habit not completely alien to
featherless bipeds.
# * * *
“Half-Dirty”: A widespread mange-
infection among foxes (not so prevalent
now) caused hunters and furriers alike
to lose interest in Brer and allow him to
multiply to the point where he is becom-
ing increasingly bolder as a lamb-killer
and chicken-stealer, and the shire bounty
of 7s. 6d. a pelt doesn’t offer, a payable
reward. The number of cleanskins about
now would pay well, given a market to
create the profit-incentive that would be
the best lead to pest-eradication.
* * * •
“Wippegong”: “Fair Mac” is off the
beam when he makes Pigeon Loft
Mountain (N.S.W.) “part of the Great
Dividing Range” (B. 25/7/’56). Water
from its inland slope runs into the Clyde,
which enters the Pacific at Bateman’s
Bay; further west still runs the Shoal-
haven, another eastern river. Nearest
point on the Divide to Cook’s peak
would probably be between Braidwood
and Bungendore, about 40 air-miles
away. Pigeon House —the commoner
name —is certainly “one of the most
reliable landmarks along the coast,” and
not from the sea only. The training-
exercises for aspiring R.A.A.F. navigators
from Cootamundra included a trip to
Yass, then direct to Warden Head, the
lighthouse at Ulladulla. The only map
allowed was blank from Yass to the
Shoalhaven, but if you set course
correctly at Yass the Pigeon House rose
above the horizon dead ahead as you
slid over the northern tip of Lake
George. It soon dropped below your
skyline, of course, but if you kept correct
course and passed over it you’d hit the
coast bang on the lighthouse. Not long
ago, with a couple of kindred cranks, I
clambered up the precipitous pinnacle
to see if the rock-warbler, an attractive
little fowl restricted to the sandstone-
belt, had included that eminence in his
territory. He had.
“You Wouldn't be a bad juggler with a bit o' practice, Smithy."
“Culmina”: Speaking of Charles Las-
eron’s Ancient Australia (B. 1 /8/’56),
what intrigued me in it was the informa-
tion that Australia’s coal-seams were
laid down in the Permian era, a period of
intense cold and glaciation. Coal-seams
the rest of the world over were all laid
down in the Carboniferous, the age
which preceded the Permian and which
was a period of great heat and sun. (It
was in an age of such warmth that the
giant forests usually flourished which
were to be transformed into coal.) I had
thought such a hothouse world as the
Carboniferous was necessary to produce
coal, but evidently it’s not. Therefore
there is apparently no reason to presume,
as some scientists have, that the coal
beneath Antarctic ice was laid down in
what was a tropical Antarctic —it could
have been, but more probably dates from
a time just as blizzardly as it still is down
that way.
* * * *
“Geep”: The “Red Page” review of
Stuart Gore’s Overlanding with
Annabel (B. 4/7/’56) mentions the
Hamelin Pool (W.A.) post-office built
from blocks of naturally cemented shells.
All the shells quarried from this beach
are not used for building purposes, though
the P.O. is by no means the only building
in the vicinity so constructed. The blocks
are also ground, bagged and shipped to
Perth as high-grade poultry-grit. I can
claim some very intimate contact with
the shells in this form —afloat in Shark
Bay for some weeks in a shallow-draught
lighter, I slept very comfortably on a
layer of this bagged grit used as temporary
ballast.
* * * %
“Inglegar”: “Phil Anthus’s” powerful-
owl (B. 18/7/’56) must have laryngitis.
These birds often perch in the gums by
our family gunyah and tune-up —one did
so this week, and murder with a very
blunt instrument wasn’t in it. The late
Neville Cayley recorded, “Its call is a
hideous scream not easily forgotten.”
Gould was less drastic, his comment
being, “like the blaring of a bullock.” I
can’t recall hearing them in top-register
in summer, so possibly “Phil Anthus” has
not heard them at their most blood-
curdling.
# * * *
“Woorarra”: A very quaint fowl
indeed is that saltwater-wader the bar-
tailed godwit. Unafraid where humans
are concerned, as befits a cosmopolitan
who comes to us from the frozen roof
of the world, this fellow has a beak,
almost straight and over 3in. long, which
he uses for both sand- and sludge-
dredging. He spends a lot of his time
prospecting areas from which the tide
has recently departed, drivmg his beak
to its fullest extent into the wet sand,
Armed as he is, one would expect the
godwit to be dangerous in a brawl, but
he seems incapable of using his lance
save for striking downward when
perched on his adversary’s back. Thus
battles I have seen resolved into exhibi-
tions of bounding and bucking, as now
one clumsy combatant and now another
gained the vantage-position, and was in
turn thrown off. A plain grey bird as
we see him, for his wedding-day back
home this godwit puts on a fine showy
front of bright orange-rufous color. In
addition to the bar-tailed variety, the
black-tailed godwit also visits our shores,
but in much smaller numbers.
* * * *
“Sackville”: Had often enough before
seen blue-jays at Gerringong (N.S.W.),
but on that peaceful morning they were
over the paddocks in flocks, busily feed-
ing amongst the long grass. My remark
on their numbers drew from a long-
established inhabitant: “It may be
merely coincidence, but I’ve noticed that
every time the blues come in big flocks
we get rough weather.” That night we
got the lot: rain, wind and wild seas.
Since then I have noted two more visita-
tions —with the same aftermath. Could
still be mere coincidence, of course, but
three out of three is not a bad argument.
* * * #
FOUR of us in the compartment as the
North-west Mail left Sydney; two
of the others were shearers, but they’d
come to the city to collect the older mate
and take him home. He looked far from
well, but the hospital said he could go.
They made him comfortable in the corner,
gave him a smoke, then one took over
while the other chap fell asleep—he’d
been travelling for four days.
At Newcastle they got him pies and
sandwiches and hot coffee, some of which
he split—“ That’s all right, ol’ mate;
don’t you worry about that”—then
snugged him into the corner and lit his
smoke for him.
The old chap dozed, and the escorts
told us of the man he had been; nobody
like lpdm for bringing a train of cattle to
Sydney—out on his own, and all the
bosses wanted him.
The night grew colder, and the old chap
stirred restlessly, so his mates took off
their overcoats, bedded the old bloke
down in warmth and comfort on one
seat, and came over on to the other and
smoked and yarned, a touch every now
and then to keep the sleeper tucked in.
It made me think of the growing
national worry that is at last stirring top-
levels ; care of the aged . . . how in this
era of easy money and flash cars, super-
lotteries and go-slow, with television and
atomic power round the corner, a great
member of the Commonwealth of
Nations can’t properly use old folk who
are still useful, or can’t properly feed old
folk who are not.
But maybe that has nothing to do with
my cobbers in the train. They were half-
caste abos.
BILLY T.
TRIAD
It was an ordinary day, the hours set
In their familiar frames, morning and noon
Merging in busyness, the fires alight
In ordered rooms drew a dead summer’s whiff
Of sun from folded linen, and the stove
Breathed out a warmth of herbs and it was good.
The day paused.
Soft and still
The cold besieged a window, fingering
The strong bright house.
So suddenly
And yet as softly as I leant my hair
Against the pane, a swift concurrency,
Spasm in triad on the harp of air
Happened.
Mist of rain fell, where in the hour of dawn
Past rain had strung a frozen scale of breves
Across bare staves of branches; and a bird
Dark as a last torn leaf against the sky
From the slung cordons of a climbing rose
Flew down, and scratched for seeds;
One wintry cry
Piped from its throat, frail pitchfork feet
Stabbed a gavotte; then spinet-thin through rain
Came chords, played somewhere down the
muffled street,
And someone lonely touched the chords again
In an empty room, pianissimo.
O my mouth, speak quickly in the cold!
Shout, my mouth, into the soundless rain
But what in truth is the secret to be told?
Only the question waits ...
Answer withheld.
Who moves behind the stillness of the stage
To prompt unheard
This faint and chancy choir of instruments?
Who threads a drop of music on a tree,
Strikes with a tree’s chill fingers minor third,
Sets free a thought to peck in quiet for food,
And trails a black wing-feather
In the heart’s blood?
VICTORIA.
ANNE CHLOE ELDER.


II
im convinced
emus
is belter tobacco
•
■belter tobacco.
v.' ■ :. %
\
CAPSTAN
' :•
m
LX
m
v:
gswaa
w
B t
* %
“With a fine tobacco, as with fine cars,
quality always tops the field.
Capstan’s own blend of
Virginia tobaccos en-
sures a quality which
is consistently main-
tained. You will
enjoy Capstan’s
flavour, fresh frag-
rance and smooth
smoking.”
Ask everywhere for
CAPSTAN.
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO 1
gnroott
NOW—2 Mobilco Junior Models
I
.... .nw CTJM CB. «A« OBVtW «■"«- >»*]
With B.S.A. 7 b.h.p. 4-stroke Engine
F.O.R. Melbourne, Blade Extra.
Smaller brother to the Mobilco Bush King
and Model B Saws, the "Junior" is the
ideal lightweight for the farmer, grazier,
contractor or even the man who clears land
on a week-end basis. .
You get "the lot" - LOW PRICE plus VALUE plus MOBILCO'S 6 MONTHS *
GUARANTEE plus these MOBILCO SUPER FEATURES:
-jAr In-built gear reduction
■fa Finger-tip control Easy
positioning for cutting at any
angle Drives up to 36" blade
★ Spindle mounted on ball
bearings Undercarriage gives
ample clearance for ripping on
ground 5.2 h.p. Mobilco
engine. Runs 4Va hours on one
gallon of petrol.
POST NOW FOR
DEMONSTRATION
I would like to see a demonstration of
the Mobilco "Junior" as soon as possible.
Name
Address.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONE: YX 1244-5 - TELEGRAMS: MOBSLCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH - - AGENTS: LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
'THERE wasn't another house for
miles around the little bush-pub
where we were working. “How big is
the town you come from?” asked one
of the hands of the new apprentice at
crib-time. “Aw,” said the apprentice,
“I s’pose it’d be about the size o’ this
joint, but it ain’t got a pub.”—“Metax.”
* * * *
“Mugga Way”: Delegates to the Inter-
national Forestry Conference in Oxford
last month were told that a species of
eucalypt planted in East Africa had
grown 35ft. in 23 months. What is our
own record?. . . The conference,
impressed, went on to discuss ways of
exchanging information about the gum-
trees and of exchanging seeds to plant
in suitable localities.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Just how necessary is
water for a snake’s survival (B.
18/7/’56)? In the pantry of my Torres
Straits Island bungalow I cut the lashings
at the top of a bag of pollard and a split-
second later leaped back as a 21 in. death-
adder shot out of it. It was the house-
girl’s custom to throw empty pollard-
bags out the pantry-window, where they
were picked up for refilling by one of
the store-boys. The d.-a. must have
crawled into an empty bag and later been
immersed in pollard. The filled bag had
remained unopened in the pantry since
before my departure south on leave four
months earlier!
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: The G.-G., Sir
William Slim (now on his way to England,
via Suez, for a brief spell), touching on
his visit to Papua and New Guinea, said
that two things had impressed him par-
ticularly—the good-feeling and confidence
existing everywhere between the Adminis-
tration and the native population and the
progress through the whole Territory
since his previous visit. In this, he said,
all sections had co-operated the
Administration, the missions, the Euro-
pean community and, not least, the
natives. He thanked the natives, the
Chinese, the European officials and non-
officials for their friendliness and hospi-
tality to him, and said he would assure
her Majesty of the deep feeling of loyalty
and affection evident wherever he went.
* * * *
“Geep”: Wonga’s ride on an alligator
in “Brigalow” (B. 11/7/’56) recalls the
most famous of all saurestrian exploits.
In 1820 Charles Waterton, eccentric
English natural-historian, determined to
capture alive a South American cayman.
With the 10ft. reptile securely hooked
from a river-bank, he was faced with
the problem of trussing it. The cayman
helped him make up his mind by a direct
attack. “I sprung up and jumped on his
back,” wrote Waterton, “seized his fore-
legs and by main force twisted them
on his back; thus they served me for
a bridle... .Fancying himself in hostile
company he began to plunge furiously.
It must have been a fine sight for an
unoccupied spectator.” When his steed
tired Waterton tied its jaws and
triumphantly dismounted.
* * * *
“Metax”: The Batese family has
found a cheap way of moving from
Launceston to a new home at St. Helen's
P6int, on the Speck’s east coast. Loaded
aboard a covered wagon, bought for £2
10s. and dragged by a £l2 lOs.-worth
of draughthorse, Bill, aged 17, two
younger brothers and the family heavy-
belongings set out on the 100-mile trip.
Father, Mother, two young daughters and
the lighter luggage went by car and so
there could be a check on progress, but
Bill Batese, an assistant Scoutmaster, .was
up to the game.
“Ceg”: Sent out to disconnect the
supply of a tardy payer, a member of the
staff of Victoria’s Electricity Commission
was confronted by a consumer who raised
all sorts of obstacles to the disconnection
being made at the house. He got the
ladder off the truck and began to make
the disconnection at the top of the pole
in the road. Then the irate female came
out of her house and removed the ladder.
It was on a country road, not much
traffic, and he pole-sat for an hour or so
before a rescuer came along.
* * * *
“Maitri”: The first deciduous tree in
the garden to put on new leaf is the mul-
berry—it showed new green in mid-July
while still sporting a cluster of last
summer’s greenery. The most cautious
customer in the place is the hawthorn—
it hangs back till every other tree and
shrub is covered with springtime foliage
(and till the last of the cold winds has
departed) before it thrusts forth a tenta-
tive spray or two.
* * * *
“Ari”: We were given an Australorp
rooster to kill for Christmas, but he was
such a fine bird we kept him for breed-
ing. It was some time before we found
any suitable birds to mate with him and,
in the meantime, Mr. Australorp made
his own domestic arrangements. Every
morning he strutted sedately down to an
adjacent farm and escorted back one,
two or three hens. After diligently
scratching for them all day and other-
wise employing himself as a thorough
gentleman, he would dutifully escort them
back to their own premises each even-
ing—after that he would come home to
roost in his accustomed place under the
loquat-tree.
JEWEL LIZARD
Seeking relief from petty, tiresome tasks,
I came to pitch my camp upon this hill,
Where slender crow-ash grows, grey boulders
spill
On to the clearing; where the magpie asks
For approbation; where brown bracken masks
A rivulet matching the finches’ trill,
While on the sun-hot tent-pole, graven still,
With palpitating heart a lizard basks.
A little jewel-lizard; bronze shot-silk;
Smallest and brightest of the saurian ilk;
As still as a cast metal toy he lies,
With tiny shiny bright unwinking eyes;
But, should that green March-fly near by alight,
He’ll dart, catch, blink and swalow, swift as
light.
N-S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


• :S;
Jr'
!&&J£likJf REGISTERED
iA^va
f sSSßffli “AtKe ir ,
(EIIAR
Original Rcci ft
E.t
1742
ft wh i .£P A C K-.e very Mckday
it toned, wnjb
i
4 •Qfftr’w3 , 3 r e*«S#iisi
—SSL*** t-OwpftM
■it and Miruue
R 35
WHITE HORSE
No other drink satisfies more
than a fine Scotch . . . and in
White Horse, Scotch
Whisky reaches pure
perfection.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Business, Robbery, Etc.
CANBERRA, PREMIERS AND THE BUDGET
TF Treasurer Fadden, sucking
his pencil while he works on
the 1956-57 Budget, finds a lot of
problems confronting him, he
should not feel too sorry for
himself or for his Government.
For, whilst the Federal system,
with its division of powers
between States and Common-
wealth, is responsible for a great
deal of our present-day economic
troubles, a proportion of them
can be traced to the Canberra
“system” itself.
Far too much of the govern-
ment of the country is in the
hands of Canberra civil servants.
Each Minister is very much in
the hands of his department.
And, in their restricted Canberra
environment, Ministers tend to
become “Canberra - minded.”
That’s only too natural.
Thus, while the Menzies-
Fadden Government showed
considerable political courage in
introducing the restrictive taxa-
tion and other measures of
March last, there is a feeling that
the same amount of courage may
have achieved greater things if
the planning were not so much
a “Canberra job,” and if a spade
was occasionally called a shovel
in approaching our national
problems.
Without question the root-
cause of our problems' today is
lack of productivity, largely the
result of trade-union policy and
trade - union - dominated State
Government policy. But the
Menzies Government, except at
election-time, has always been a
little too nice and diplomatic in
its dealings with “Labor”-
dominated State Governments.
The chief purpose of the Cahill
Government for a long time has
been to bring about the down-
fall of the Menzies-Fadden
Government, even if the State
is wrecked in the process.
The Menzies-Fadden Govern-
ment has avoided criticism of
State Governments’ let-down of
the economy by yielding to
militant unionism. Yet when
Budget-time comes what State
Governments and the trade-
union movement have done or
failed to do during the year has
an overwhelming effect on the
national affairs.
August 16, then, should be the
occasion for plain-speaking by
Sir Arthur Fadden when he
meets the State Premiers,
especially the “Labor” Premiers.
And if he has to be briefed by
someone for the occasion, and,
later, for the Budget, it would
be well if he took counsel from
outside as well as inside the
civil service.
A country cannot go on being
run to suit the arrangements of
civil servants and the demands of
irresponsible trade-union pres-
sure-groups. Our income-tax
system, especially in relation to
company-taxation, appears to be
“streamlined” in a manner to
suit easy tax-collection regardless
of the effect on production,
saving or investment. Deprecia-
tion provisions are inadequate,
and the 10s. flat-rate tax on un-
distributed profits of private
companies is a penalty on pro-
ductive enterprise and on thrift.
It is, in particular, a Govern-
ment-created incentive to spend,
not to save. This at present, of
all times!
If the Federal Government is
contemplating increasing
income-tax rates in its forthcom-
ing Budget it should think again.
This is a time when production
and saving need every incentive,
and neither will be encouraged
by heavier rates of income-tax.
Levies on spending, especially
on luxury-spending, are appro-
priate enough, and there was
little to cavil about in the
increased sales-tax and excise
of the “supplementary Budget.”
But if the Government takes the
view that any old tax is all
right so long as it provides the
Canberra departments and State
Governments with spending-
money there will be a wide and
justifiable outcry.
In times like the present there
is a responsibility on the Govern-
ment and its civil servants to
bestir themselves physically and
mentally to relate the Canberra
fiscal policy to the real needs of
an economically confused
country, not to the convenience
of Canberra and the Premiers.
Northern Hercules, N.L.
A BOUT 400 shareholders,
hot under the collar
in spite of a maximum street-
temperature in the fifties, rolled-
up to the extraordinary general
meeting of Northern Hercules,
N.L., in Melbourne on August
8, and overwhelmingly carried
“an expression of opinion”
that the nominal value of
the co.’s shares should be
increased from 10s. to 12s. 6d.
in order to salvage whatever
can be got out of the Northern
Territory mine. But the actual
motion was not put, and the
meeting was adjourned until
August 16 because the necessary
majority of two-thirds of the
shareholders might not be
obtained.
A shareholders’ committee has
been formed to investigate
criticisms of the board and of
the company, and to report back
to shareholders at the annual
meeting to be held in December.
Several shareholders tackled
Dr. Michael Duhan Garretty,
who chaired the meeting, with
questions about management,
prospects and certain share
matters. Dr. Garretty said there
were no grounds which would
enable a claim for damages
against the company which
carried out the development
work (Australasian Civil
Engineering Pty., Ltd.) to be
sustained.
Dr. Garretty said he took
full responsibility for the state-
ment last December that pros-
pectus estimates were expected
to be achieved. That was an
error of judgment, but an
honest error, he maintained.
Northern Hercules, N.L., was
formed in May, 1954, to take
over the Hercules goldmine,
north-east of Pine Creek (N.T.).
One way and another it has
issued 2,015,000 10s. shares, but
claims that unless more money
is put in—about £200,000, it is
estimated —the mine will have
to be closed down.
At the beginning 62,300 tons
of ore going 37.2dwt. (and
yielding an annual profit of
£462,600 with costs at £8 a ton
of ore) were cheerfully spoken
of. Total profit from this
block of ore was estimated at
just over £1 million.
But mine-development was a
costly failure, funds ran out and
a revised estimate of probable
ore is 41,000 tons going 21dwt.
Costs are put at £ll ss. a ton.
A profit of £148,000 is estimated
from this block of ore ; which
means that further ore will have
to be developed in order to
recoup fully the extra £200,000
capital-expenditure.
The mill, apparently, can
extract over 90 p.c. of the gold
from whatever ore is produced,
but there is not enough ore at
grass to keep milling operations
self-supporting.
Australasian Civil Eng.
SHAREHOLDERS in Aus-
tralasian Civil Engineering
Pty., Ltd., of Sydney, at
December 21, 1955, were Cyril
William Morris (£3800), G. LI.
and J. A. Watson (£5000)
and Roentgen Ray Pty.,
Ltd., a subsidiary of Email
(£7500). Directors were G. H.
Watson, A. V. Smith, C. W.
Morris and J. A. Watson.
Paid capital was £16,300 at
December 21 last.
The co. has been engaged in
different capacities by mining
cos. Mr. C. W. Morris was
retained by Northern Hercules
(according to its prospectus) for
general engineering planning of
the project, and the co. con-
tracted to do development
work. It also made an assess-
ment of some of the holdings
of Shaw River Alluvials, N.L.,
for the purpose of inclusion in
that co.’s prospectus, but made
it quite clear in its report that
“we have not visited the site
personally, nor assessed the tin-
oxide content of the property.”
Woodside (Lakes Entrance)
[From 1.. Owen]
A BANDONMENT of the drill-
ing of Woodside (Lakes
Entrance) Oil Co.’s No. 3 well,
in hard sandstone and shale at
5985 ft., can hardly be said to
be unexpected. It is but one
more illustration of how very
little is known of Victorian
geological conditions at depth
and of how far the interpreta-
tions of the results of geophysical
surveys differ there from the
geological truth.
Possibly the most intense
geophysical survey which has
been carried out on the Aus-
tralian mainland is that of the
Carnarvon Basin (W.A.),
where it has now been recognised
that both geophysical
methods and interpretations
will have to undergo drastic
modifications if they are to prove
of value in the search for
petroleum in the area. Much
more emphasis is now being
placed on the necessity for con-
trolling geophysical-survey pro-
grammes by direct geological
evidence from minutely studied
outcrops or from orientated
cores, or from both —wherever
such is available. Even then, it
is essential that the drilling pro-
gramme be determined and
controlled not only by structural
and stratigraphical data but by
the local geological history.
All this is a commonplace in
geologically “difficult” oilfields
—that is, those in which the
“normal” segregation of gas,
oil and water does not apply.
That the Australian mainland,
considered as a whole, is such
an area is evident from the
results of all the wells drilled in
search of oil to date and of many
of those sunk for water.
The failure of Woodside
No. 3 well is disappointing, of
course, to the people who
invested money in that venture
and whose hopes were raised by
such published statements as
that the Upper Tertiary sands,
encountered in No. 3 well
between 1150 ft. and 1368 ft.,
indicated “a vast improvement
in porosity and permeability”
which was considered to be very
favorable to the drilling pro-
gramme ; it was further stated
that this improvement extended
to the Lower Tertiary sand at
3300 ft.
The failure must also be
annoying to companies (such as
Lakes Oil, Ltd.) which were
awaiting the results from Wood-
side No. 3 well before deciding
on the method of exploration
which they would adopt. In
neither case is much consolation
to be derived from the Wood-
side directors’ statement that
“the well has provided important
geological information.” It is
unfortunate that, in Australian
oil-company jargon, this expres-
sion has come to mean that the
anticipated conditions were not
encountered.
The chemical and physical
properties of the crude oil
derived from cores at 5635 ft. and
5640 ft. in Woodside No. 2 well
-—as f£r as they could be
determined from the meagre
samples available —should have
placed the co. on its guard, as
they indicated that the oil was
not indigenous to the Jurassic
beds in which the petroleum was
contained, a fact confirmed by
the barrenness of No. 3 well.
There is some hope; however, in
the probability that the determi-
nation of special physical and
chemical properties, from further
samples of the petroleum when
obtained, may suggest a very
different approach to that em-
ployed to date for the solution
of the problem of Lakes
Entrance oil.


Ptl
ms
m
'■ 8*
:SSSSSS
r?<**
«*•*«.
w < ? t to
•. -
4 v<
Bank accounts
for everyone!
A.N.Z. Cheque Accounts and A.N.Z. Savings
Accounts provide complete banking service.
The progressive, stream-lined policy of A.N.Z. Bank now enables
you to enjoy the advantages of both types of banking service under
the one roof. You can have a Savings Account which will return
interest from the money deposited ... a cheque account to help
you budget more effectively and save time, money and bother when
settling household bills, etc. ... or you can enjoy the convenience
of both accounts. Furthermore, the latest mechanised systems used
by A.N.Z. Bank enable deposits, withdrawals and other business
transactions to be effected rapidly and simply.
A.N.Z. Bank, one of the largest financial institutions in the
Commonwealth, has a world-wide organisation offering a
complete banking service anywhere in Australia or when
travelling or sending money overseas.
A*N*Z
AN Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 850 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New
IZealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New Zealand
in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London, Agents
throughout the world.
ANZ. 286. IB
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
If you really care for
your ear always use
Ox' r\'o
, c,
l
TO9UIAI3
Just like people, car engines respond to kind*
ness. Try it and see. Give your car the
blended, balanced, cushioning lubrication
of ENERGOL. Then sit back, relax and
wait for your reward—easy starting,
smooth running and a firm refusal
by your engine to cause youwndue
expense or trouble. A planned
programme of ENERGOL
lubrication will keep you and
your car on the best
of terms—particularly
on resale value.
.
w mmmm.
.
ST.
ixiM
itpm
*e&, 5“'.. „
4 ,i x
Wiia
, TV. '-:
25
MMmk,
W:
. complete range of
ENERGOL premium
grade automotive oils
and ENERGREASES and
Special ENERGOL Visco-
Static 4-grades-in-I Motor Oil,
specially recommended for
new or well-conditioned engines,
Is available where you see these pumps.
ENERGOL
LUBRICATION SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD,
an associate of The British Petroleum Company Limited
C375P
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
THERE is no finer tonic for
the jaded Londoner than a
holiday in Ireland. It is the one
country in Europe, now highly
urbanised and overrun by
tourists, where perfect quiet
rules.
“Sure,” goes the Irish saying,
“the man who invented time
made plenty of it.” And, in
truth, there is so much time to
spare that leisure is long and,
of necessity, contemplative.
Trains, though fast and
punctual, are few and, except for
three main-line services (one
each way), do not run on
Sundays; nor do the long-
distance coaches ; and some of
the best-known resorts are not
served by any form of public
transport.
The visitor, if he has no car,
travels hopefully and counts
himself lucky to arrive. Having
arrived, he soon finds that his
wanderings are essentially
restricted, liable to abrupt cessa-
tion by bog and always limited
to walking distances. So he is
left to dawdling and sitting and
to admiration of the local
"No need to go crook on me, madam. I'm only a
taxpayer like yourself."
scenery, which is as unspoiled as
it is beautiful.
Equally, the motorist enjoys a
similar tranquillity. He rarely
meets another car. Even the
Killarney district is uncongested,
bearing no evidence of the
flashier concomitants of tourism.
Most people hire their cars in
Dublin or Cork (£2O upwards,
including insurance, for a fort-
night) and tour the countryside.
The hotels are clean, if some-
what less splendid than on the
Continent, and obliging; they
will find the traveller a bed some-
where, either with a neighbor or
on a shakedown.
For Better —Or Erse?
The first thing that strikes the
innocent-at-large in the Republic
is the indigenous language. All
the signposts and street-names
are bilingual as, for example, in
Belgium. But the essential
difference is that, while the
Flemings speak Flemish and the
Walloons French, the Irish —
except in some isolated districts
—speak English.
One does not need to be a
philologist to realise that the
Gaelic vocabulary has limita-
tions and to be amused at some
of the alternatives, expressed in
spiky, runic script. till Airne
appears to have a certain
romantic legitimacy for Kil-
larney, but bus, telefon and
aerphort seem not without a
certain supra-Gaelic preciosity.
It would be interesting to know
how many non-English-speaking
visitors to Dublin inquire for the
busaras (bus-station) and how
deep are the Gaelic roots of
scoil (school) or oifis an puist
(post-office).
A European migrant, now a
professor at Oxford and evi-
dently something of a purist,
related how, wishing to address
his postcards correctly, he asked
several Dubliners the Gaelic
word for England. Nobody could
tell him.
Gaelic is a compulsory subject
in the Irish schools, but most
students forget it as soon as
they leave. In some quarters —
notably the stage, literature and
politics—there is a fondness for
Gaelic names. Sean, Pilib,
Padr a i g, Seamus, Tomas,
Siobhan, Maire, Aingeal . . .
More often than not, one under-
stands, the names which appear
on the birth-certificates are
John, Philip, Patrick, etc.
Irishries
Those who expect to find in-
congruities and surprising
paradoxes in Ireland won’t be
disappointed. Two innocents,
familiar enough with Catholic
countries on the Continent,
decided to seek out Dublin’s
cathedral. They saw St. Patrick’s
on the map and, when they got
there, found it was Protestant.
So, too, was Christ Church
Cathedral near by.
There are more Protestant
than Catholic churches in Ire-
land. The Lord Mayor of
Dublin is a Jew, and the Pro-
fessor of Gaelic at Trinity
College, Dublin, is a Protestant.
It seems odd to read on Irish
banknotes that they are “payable
to bearer on demand in Lon-
don.” The Irish currency, in
fact, is no more self-sufficient
than the Irish language. There
are, it is true, Irish coins, but
they exist side-by-side with
English coins in Irishmen’s
pockets.
The State has no immediate
intention of introducing tele-
vision, largely because it does
not wish to encourage the spend-
ing of money on luxuries. But
TV-sets are on sale in the shops,
and many housetops in the
Dublin area bear aerials. They
get the programmes from
Northern Ireland.
The traditional antipathy
between the 26 counties of the
south and the six counties of the
north doesn’t extend to sport.
In choosing Irish international
sides the 32 counties are pooled.
Of all great cities in the world
today, Dublin is the least
troubled by housing shortage.
Reason: so many people leave
the country, mainly for England.
This migration (amounting to
20,000 persons a year) is a matter
of serious concern to the State.
And yet a foreigner who wishes
to settle in Ireland has to pay
a 25 p.c. impost on any property
he buys.
Valediction
There is something, elusive and
ineluctable, about this country’s
rugged and wayward character
which tugs at the heartstrings on
leaving. One feels a compulsive
yearning to go back again. Is it
the beautiful countryside? The
obstinate, almost quixotic,
independence? The easy, naive
charm —triumphant even when
overcharging?
It is an alien country and,
officially, almost an enemy one.
The press, it would seem, never
lets go an opportunity to have a
dig at England, keeping alive the
long-standing national animosity.
(There exists, too, a strong anti-
Americanism.) Is it not time to
forget the “Elizabethan adven-
turers” and Cromwell and all the
accumulated grievances, unfor-
givable and terrible as they
were?
The hard truth is that the
geographical and economic facts
are inescapable: in this
electronic and industrial age a
small and poor country like
Ireland cannot stand on her own.
She is lagging behind. Her
future prospects are depressing.
Not only in Britain but over
most parts of Europe, fight
industries have spread, often
with Government backing, into
areas that formerly had to five
off the land or from a season’s
holiday-makers. And Northern
Ireland, too, enjoys a high degree
of industrial development.
It is not merely a sense of
adventure which causes so many
Irishmen and women to pack
their bags and leave, rarely to
return except on holiday. The
alternative, in the country
districts at least, is to make as
much as possible during the
summer months and to scrape
through the remainder of the
year on savings, augmented by
taking in each other’s washing.
Moreover, the traditional anti-
dotes to boredom, a lively
interest in sport, especially horse-
racing, and a tendency towards
heavy drinking, appeal less to
the newer generation than do
the pleasures of urban life, with
TV and all mod. cons.
All in all, it would seem that
the indigenous Irish are fighting
a rearguard action against a
world which refuses to accept
the same notions of time and
behavior. Always dogged
fighters, they will enjoy it.
Not Half!
At 3s. 6d. a cup, Gaelic coffee
must be something out of the
ordinary. When asked what it
contained, the waitress (Co.
Cork) replied: “Half coffee, half
whiskey, and half cream.”


A Group -of Experts to Manage
m
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Exeeutor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( V ice-Chair man )
A. E. Bond J. R. Faviell F. B. Fleming
Manager: IS. L. Shato
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officer:
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.JI2.IS
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd.
TF politicians react touchily to charges,
1 made from time to time in the eastern
States, that brewery interests contribute to
party finances, as Governments they
approach the job of exacting tribute from
the industry in the name of the State with
an almost unexampled zest.
Over in Western Australia, where
Swan Brewery possesses virtually a
monopoly of the beer-trade in this
thirstier-than-average State, the co. paid
out in excise, taxes and duties of various
kinds last year no less than £6,441,476,
which, the chairman records, was over
18 times as much as was distributed
among shareholders, who, in turn, paid
income-tax on what they did receive.
Not, albeit, that Swan shareholders
have a great deal to complain about
in the way they have been treated. For
nearly 20 years to 1911 ord. divs. ranged
from 24 p.c. to 32 p.c. Then the rate
dropped to 16 p.c., following transfer of
£101,450 from reserves to capital, and
remained steady, sweetened with 4 p.c.
bonuses in the fattest periods, until slump
brought the rate down to a mere 14 p.c.
in 1931. It rose to 20 p.c. again in 1935,
and for the following 15 years averaged
a shade over 24 p.c. on capital, enlarged
by a one-for-three bonus issue in 1940.
In 1951 those on the register were doubly
rewarded, firstly with a cash-issue of
311,320 new ss. shares at a premium of
20s. each, and then with a two-for-one
gift scrip-issue which capitalised
£1,716,268 of reserves. To provide
additional finances for the co.’s
programme of plant-rationalisation and
-modernisation and hotel-improvements,
shareholders were again asked to help
in 1955. On this occasion they put up
a total of £847,395 capital and £169,480
premiums.
Major extensions to brewery facilities
have been completed, and the co. should
be able to take care of the planned
expenditure on hotel-properties without
issuing more capital, so immediate
interest centres on the div. - rate,
which has been stepped-up in the
last five years from 7.5 p.c. to 10 p.c.
Last year, after charging £164,284 (up
£31,908) depreciation and setting aside an
unspecified provision for taxation and
contingencies, net profit of the parent and
subsidiary cos., less outside shareholders’
interests, was written at £339,294:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends
Year Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
31. £ £ p.c. £ £ ‘ £
1952.. 391 3000 7.5 = 193,186 2,269,075
Unexplained addition, £170,238 .. 2,439,313
1963.. 747 3000 8.3 = 214,651 56,096 2,495,409
Unexplained addition, £108,274 . . 2,603,683
1954.. 763 3000 8.3 = 214,651 74,112 2,677,795
Profit sale assets, £4072 .. .. 2,681,867
Share premiums, £84,740 .. .. 2,766,607
Tax overprovided, £13,192 .. .. 2,779,799
Unexplained addition, £150,999 .. 2,930,798
1955.. 298.541 3000 9.16 = 278,485 17,056 2,947,854
Profit sale assets, £3964 .. .. 2,951,818
Share premiums, £84,740 .. .. 3,036,558
Unexplained addition, £119,526 . . 3,156,084
1956.. 339.294 3000 10 =342,320 3,150,058
* After eliminating outside interests,
t Excludes depreciation reserve, £1,040,245 at
31/3/’56.
Up £40,753 on the 1955 figure, the
£339,294 covered the £3OOO pref. charges
and 9.8 p.c. on ord. capital, as against
9.7 p.c. and 11.2 p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms. The figure doesn’t take into
account £119,526 unexplained additions
to reserves, part of which might rightly be
called profit, so the 10 p.c. div. is prob-
ably better covered than the stated
earnings indicate.
Since the “supplementary Budget”
increased excise-duties last March, a
decline in beer-consumption has been
evident, though the ultimate effects
remain to be determined. While the
higher duties have been passed on in Aus-
tralia they may mean narrower margins
on the co.’s substantial trade overseas,
where its product must be priced com-
petitively. The chairman’s hope is that
the effect on the export business “will
not be too disastrous.”
Balance-sheet figures show mainly the
additions to hotels and plant:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord 2,575,813 2,999,510 3,423,208
Reserves . . . . 2,677,795 2,947,854 3,150,058
Depreciation res... 796,098 912,879 1,040,245
Outside interests. . 13,356 23,003 23,401
Mortgages .. 47,747
Overdraft .. ~ 74,662
Creditors, etc. .. 217,637 250,780 220,993
Tax provision .. 311,553 375,729 471,608
Final divs. .. 130,291 172,660 172,660
£6,894,952 £7,732,415 £8,552,173
Freeholds .. ..' 4,016,499 4,237,047 4,532,946
Plant, etc. .. 1,988,674 2,291,354 2,878,98 S
Stock .. .. 546,629 570,026 662,780
Debtors .. .. 317,806 354,121 396,092
Cash, etc. .. 25,344 279,867 81,417
£6,894,952 £7,732,415 £8,562,173
The second instalment on the new share-
capital (£423,698) and share-premiums
(£84,740) were gathered during the year,
but, because of the heavy expenditure on
fixed assets, net working-capital fell
£129,817 to £275,028.
Taking a fairly cautious view of the
position, the sharemarket prices the ss.
ords. at around Bs. 6d. (9s. 3d. a year ago)
to give an immediate return of just under
6 p.c. The 6 p.c. prefs. are at par. Net
tangible asset cover is £133 9s. 4d. the
prefs., 6s. 9d. the ords.
\
Custom Credit Corporation, Ltd.
WHILE the place of hire-purchase in
the economy and its effects on
society have been the subject of intense
—if spasmodic—discussions by poli-
ticians, bankers, economists and news-
paper pundits, the financial institutions
providing h.-p. facilities have busily
established themselves as an integral part
of the Australian economy. In less than
three years the balances owing to finance
cos. under retail h.-p. agreements have
grown from just over £BB million to
£208.2 million at the end of May, 1956,
at which date total bank-advances
amounted to £964.7 million.
Incorporated three years ago, Custom
Credit Corporation has experienced rapid
and profitable growth. The first public
co. in its field to be linked with a trading
bank (the National Bank holds a 40 p.c.
share-interest), it is now the third-largest
organisation of its kind in Australia. The
paid capital of £3 million is in ss. stock-
units, each unit having a net tangible
asset backing of just under ss. Bd. At
Bs. lOd. on the market, the shares yield
8.5 p.c. from a 15 p.c. div.
Financing the purchase of durable
goods such as cars, domestic appliances
and furniture, the co. extended its
activities during the term to cover home
repairs and additions by way of mortgage.
The bulk of its operations are financed
by the issue of first-mortgage debenture-
stock and registered unsecured notes,
which, at June 30 last, totalled
£16,633,948, compared with £9,850,192
12 months earlier. Over the same period
contracts outstanding grew by £10,549,957
to £21,634,904. Recently - increased
interestn-ates now range from 3i to 7
p.c., the outside money easily paying its
way and enabling a good earning-rate on
capital.
Operating for portion of the term
within the limits suggested by the Prime
Minister, the co. completed a successful
year to June 30 last:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1954.. £53,457 10 p.e. = £21,458 £31,999 £31,999
Prelim, exes, written oil', £6982 25,017
1955.. 441,900 15 p.e. = 218,750 223,150 248,167
1956.. 632,800 15 „ „ 450,000 182,800 430,967
Net profit of £632,800 was up by £190,900
after providing an extra £182,970 for
taxation (£433,058) and £316 more
(£7593) for depreciation. The paid
capital was doubled a month before the
commencement of the term, and the
earning-rate, of a shade under 21.1 p.c.,
compares quite favorably with the 30.3
p.c. on the lower figure in the previous
term. Although dividends have been
reasonable, reserves have accumulated at
a brisk rate, reaching £430,967 in only
three years, and their continued growth,
rather than higher dividends, is to be
expected.
The rapid progress of the organisation
is shown in the balance-sheet figures:
1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Reserves 248,167 430,967
Staff fund .. . . .. 7,438
Debentures and notes .. 9,850,192 16,633,948
Deposits, etc., subsid. .. 238,000 1,479,578
Unearned income .. .. 1,388,530 2,310,255
Sundry creditors .. . . 116,821 363,645
Tax provision .. .. 250,000 433,300-
Final div 152,083 225,000
£15,251,231 £24,866,693
Office equipment .. .. 67,509 92,269
Shares subsid. .. .. 250,000 250,000
H.-p. contracts, etc 11,084,947 21,684,904
Sundry debtors .. .. 6,845 52,071
Cash, etc. .. ' .. .. 8,851,930 2,837,449
£16,251,231 £24,866,693
The large cash-holdings could be utilised
profitably, according to the directors, but
are retained in accordance with the policy
of the co. Making a profit on both the
swings and the roundabouts, the sub-
sidiary, National and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. (formed in 1954), operated
profitably over the year, providing
insurance on hired goods and at the
same time depositing funds with the
parent co. amounting, at balancing-date,
to £1,479,578.
The rate of development seen over the
last three years cannot be expected to
continue, but a gradual growth should
accompany the consolidation of the co.’s
advanced position in the h.-p. field. The
corporation is currently making an issue
of £3 million in registered first-mortgage
debenture-stock.
Bankers and Traders Insurance Co.
r T v HE year ended March, 1956, was
A successful for this 35-year-old, and
the improved profit appears to justify the
withdrawal from India and Pakistan,
completed in the previous term. Con-
siderable revenue was lost by the with-
drawal, but expansion in South Africa
and Australia, together with the elimina-
tion of certain unprofitable types of
business, have placed the co. in a stronger
position.
Continuing the previous term’s
improvement, net premium income rose
by £150,574 to £1,420,260, and at the
same time the expense-rate was down
from 34.7 p.c. to 31.6 p.c.:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses.* Ratio. Ratio.
£ £ £
1952.1,337,250 814,315 529,596 60.9 p.c. 39.6 p.c.
1953. 1,266,418 782,079 488,831 61.7 „ 38.6 „
1954. 1,236,778 754,246 460,942 61.0 „ 37.2 „
1955. 1,269,686 796,569 441,413 62.7 „ 34.7 „
1956. 1,420,260 883,062 449,301 62.2 „ 31.6 „
* Excludes tax on investment income.
The gross underwriting surplus jumped by
£56,193 to £87,897, and, after increasing
the reserve for unexpired risks by £60,500
(£13,000 last term), the net surplus was
£8693 higher at £27,397.
As a general rule dividends do not
exceed investment income, the under-
writing surplus going to strengthen
reserves against the demands of less
prosperous times. The £30,660 required
for the 12 j p.c. distribution is well
covered, investments returning £42,702
(down £639). After providing for taxa-
tion, profit from all sources was up
£8054 at £70,099:
To Re- Re-
March, Surplus. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951 . . 53,062 121 p.c. = 30,660 22,402 771,152
To reserve unexpired risk, £50,000 .. 821,152
1952 .. 23,571 12* p.c. = 30,660 814,063
1953 . . 28,766 12* „ „ 30,660 812,169
1954 . . 63,147 12* „ „ 30,660 32,487 844,656
To reserve unexpired risks, £13,000 .. 857,656
1955 . . 62,045 12* p.c. = 30,660 31,383 889,039
To reserve unexp. risks, £60,500 .. 949,539
1956 . . 70,099 12* p.c. = 30,660 39,439 988,978
* Includes reserve unexpired risks, £568,500 at
31/3/’56.
The addition of £60,500 to the reserve
for unexpired risks (now £568,500) has
maintained that fund at 40 p.c. of net
premiums, ,a ratio usually considered
adequate. General reserves are stronger
by £39,439 at £420,478, bringing total
reserves to £988,978. Surplus represented
28.5 p.c. on capital, compared with
25.3, 25.7, 11.7, 9.6 and 21.6 p.c. over
the previous five years.
Balance-sheet comparisons show the
co.’s sound structure:
1954. 1956. 1956.
Paid capital .. £245,281 £245,281 £245,281
Reserves .. . . 844,654 889,039 988,978
Sundry creditors* 178,683 161,802 117,078
Outstanding claims,
etc. . , . . 566,869 670,705 574,622
Pinal div. .. 18,396 18,396 15,330
£1,853,883 £1,885,223 £1,941,289
Freeholds .. . . 356,538 365,906 376,853
Advances co-ops.f 215,293 215,279 202,898
Shares subsids. . . 69,995 69,996 69,996
Shares other cos.. . 250,741 253,327 253,032
Book debts, etc... 267,999 251,032 300,743
Govt, securities .. 564,477 642,576 637,574
Cash .. .. 138,840 87,108 100,193
£1,853,883 £1,885,223 £1,941,289
* Includes provision for' taxation, t Advances to
building co-op. societies.
Creditors were £44,724 lower at £117,078
despite the inclusion of a higher provi-
sion for taxation. Properties were up
£10,947 at £376,853, and debtors increased
by £49,711 to £300,743. A high degree of
liquidity has been maintained, cash and
bonds representing over 38 p.c. of all
assets.
Controlled from Sydney, the co. has
agents in many parts of the world, and
plans further development in both its Aus-
tralian and overseas activities. These
plans are calling for further capital which
will be provided by the recently
announced one-for-four issue at par,
the first new issue since 1939. This will
bring in £67,219, lifting paid capital to
£312,500 in £ shares paid to 12s. 6d.
Although shareholders have been warned
that a “more conservative dividend policy
may be necessary,” the term’s earnings
would comfortably cover a continued
12i p.c. div. on the larger capital.
With scrip changing hands at 38s. the
rights have a theoretical value of around
195., allowing for dividend difference,
and with 12s. 6d. to pay would show a
return of 4.8 p.c.
Including the reserve for unexpired
risks, the last balance-sheet showed a net
tangible backing of 625. lid. for every
12s. 6d. of paid capital.
Swallow and Ariell (Melb.)
CUBSTANTIALLY reduced by lower
sales and rising costs, Swallow and
Ariell’s gross earnings (to April, 1956)
were almost completely overwhelmed by
increased expenses.
Tracing its origin back to 1854, when
Thomas Swallow commenced baking
ship-biscuits at Port Melbourne, Swallow
and Ariell is today highly regarded as a
manufacturer of biscuits, cakes and plum-
puddings. The co. also produces ice-
cream for the Victorian market, and is
one of the largest Australian distributors
of dried fruit. Paid capital, unaltered in
over 30 years, amounts to £300,000, of
which £lOO,OOO is in 6 p.c. participating


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL’* PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3& ins.,
6f x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [JJ;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Vrinters
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRIBBANE
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
Missing Friends
WOULD any children or grandchildren o f
the late ALFRED STEPHENS and MAR-
GARET ANNIE STEPHENS (nee JONES),
who formerly lived at Randwick, New
South Wales, or any person knowing their
whereabouts, please communicate with
the District Manager, PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Rotorua, New Zealand?
m
SSk/
i\ 8
LIFE ASSURANCE
etvice
FOR
©D
YEARS
Keeping old*
friends; making
friends, since
new
1895
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligli Streets, Sydney.
Faith in the
Future
Hi
\
Is it plain optimism to see the pattern unfolding
in the world as a good pattern, notwithstanding the
disappointments and doubts that show up from
day to day? If it is, then I must confess to being
an optimist.
And where Australia is concerned, that feeling
has all the strength of a national achievement to
support it.
Take the year just past. The volume of rural
production was higher than ever before in the
country’s history; and that has been due not solely
to wool.
Yes, we’ve been helped by good seasons. We
are also better equipped, technically and
scientifically, to benefit from the good years and
to cope with years of drought.
Mechanisation is assisting us. Acreage has
been expanded. There is more land under
improved pastures, there are more stock.
The fruits of research into soils and grasses
are rich and ripening. In a word, we are gaining
in productive merit.
And as in all business —and the development
of a continent is surely one of the biggest businesses
in the world —the insurance should rise with the
growth of the asset.
That insurance is Water.
Now, I’m not claiming that the miracle of a
soft and soaking rain on a whole countryside can
be humanly performed—though aerial experiments
in moisture-making, and the advances in solar
distillation of bore- or sea-water to fresh, have
widened our vision of what the future may bring
in that direction.
But I do say this: We can—and, I believe,
must —press on to the greater storage of life-giving
water.
With large, efficient irrigation systems; with
the building of dams to hold the God-given rain,
we can ensure that the rising bounty of these years
will be matched by our own intelligent effort.
prefs. There is still £lOO,OOO
uncalled on the ords.
After improving its profit in
the previous term, the ice-cream
subsidiary faced with unseason-
able weather and a steep rise
in costs, showed a loss of
£35,980, while sales and costs
also troubled the parent co.
Swallow and Haywood Pty., the
Tasmanian offshoot, made a
better showing, but the overall
result was a big fall in net earn-
ings. After allowing £47,577
for depreciation (up £4765) and
£35,852 for taxation (down
£12,032), net profit was lower
by £73,126 at £7480:
Swallow and Ariell and Subsidiaries.
, —Dividends—Re-
Apl., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ £ £
’62..58,427 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 455,590
To staff fund, £4500 ..451,090
Loss on sale assets, £1314 .. 449,776
’63..65,084 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 484,860
To staff fund, £3310 ..481,550
Provision long-service leave,
£18,600 463,050
Profit sale assets, £1293 .. 464,343
Tax overprovided, £13,317 ..477,660
’64-90,901 12ip.c. 12|p.c. 37,500 631,061
To staff fund, £3135 .. 627,926
Provision long-service leave,
£18,500 509,426
Net loss sale assets, £396 .. 609,031
’56-80,606 124p.c. 124p.c. 37,500 552,137
To staff fund, £5OO .. .. 561,637
Loss on sale assets, £11,082 .. 640,555
Provis’n long service, £2500.. 538,055
'66- 7,480 7ip.c. 7Jp.c. 22,500 523,035
* Subject to £42,398 of goodwill at
28/4/’56.
The showing on capital was
down to 2.5 p.c., after 26.8,
30.3, 21.8 and 19.4 p.c. in the
four preceding years.
Unappropriated profits were
used to meet the slashed 1\ p.c.
divs. to both pref. and ord.
shareholders, the particularly
strong reserves, already reduced
by a loss on sale of assets, fall-
ing by a further £15,020.
Further expansion and
modernisation is reflected by net
additions to plant (up £33,895)
and freehold premises (up
£10,528). To enable this expen-
diture and finance other balance-
sheet movements, including
stock (up £4456), debtors (up
£35,372) and creditors (down
£12,064), the co. sold (at a loss)
bonds to a face-value of £120,000
and called on its bankers for an
extra £39,399. As a result,
working capital was down by
£73,025 to £50,098:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Pref. . . 100,000 100,000 100,000
Ord. .. 200,000 200,000 200,000
Reserves .. 527,927 561,638 523,086
Overdraft .. 63,641 64,230 103,629
Creditors, etc. 247,803 264,524 252,460
Tax prov’n 64,812 79,327 56,130
Final divs... 27,000 22,500 7,500
1,231,183 1,282,219 1,242,755
Freeholds .. 297,115 310,107 320,635
Plant, etc... 292,212 376,015 409,910
Stocks .. 185,600 191,779 196,235
Debtors .. 256,645 233,531 268,903
Dash, etc. . . 157,212 128,394 4,679
Goodwill .. 42,393 42,393 42,393
1,231,183 1,282,219 1,242,755
In spite of the reductions dur-
ing the term, visible reserves are
still a great sheet-anchor to the
business, and, in addition, free-
hold premises are shown at
1923 valuation, with additions
at cost, less depreciation.
Recent sales on the Melbourne
’Change brought 365. for the
£l-paid ords. (carrying a
10s. liability) to yield 4.2
p.c. on the 7-fc p.c. basis.
There is little trading in
the 6 p.c. prefs., which partici-
pate in divs. above 6 p.c. and
also, on winding-up, in surplus
assets. Net tangible cover is
50s. per share.
Finance Corp. of Aust. (S.A.)
REGISTERED in Adelaide in
December, 1954, Finance
Corporation of Australia, Ltd-
plunged into the flood of
available hire-purchase business
a few months later, and its
accounts for the first full year of
operations show progress and
promise.
Four big S.A. organisations
got together to form the co. —
Pope Industries, John Martin and
Sons, Automobile Finance, and
the Bank of Adelaide, the latter
holding 40 p.c. of the paid
capital, which now totals
£500,000 in 10s. stock-units.
Providing finance-facilities for
the purchase of motor-vehicles,
farm equipment, machinery and
domestic appliances, the bulk of
the co.’s clients are in South Aus-
tralia and, aided by its four
sponsors, it has become the
largest organisation, in its field,
formed in that State.
Operations are financed mainly
from the issue of registered first-
mortgage debenture-stock, which,
with term deposits, amounted to
£1,555,100 at June 30 last, while
hire - purchase contracts and
debtors are expected to bring in
£2,083,581:
Balance-sheet, June 30, 1956.
Capital .. .. .. £600,000
Reserves .. ■ • • • 10,584
Debentures and deposits .. 1,555,100
Unearned income .. .. 235,588
Creditors .. .. . . 39,420
Tax provision .. .. .. 37,560
Final div. .. • • • • 25,000
£2,403,252
Freeholds .. .. .. £66,106
Office equipment, etc... .. 9,445
H.-p. contracts .. .. 2,083,581
Cash, etc. .. .. .. 220,162
Intangibles .. .. .. 23,958
£2,403,252
Outside money (deposits and
debentures) will amount to over
five times the paid capital when
the current issue of £1 million
debenture-stock is completed.
The issue of such stock is limited
by the articles to the lesser of
six times the shareholders’ funds
or 80 p.c. of current assets.
Profit for the term of
£54,673 (after providing £37,500
for taxation and £856 for
depreciation) shows a return of
10.9 p.c. on paid capital, the 10
p.c. div. (£45,000) taking most
of the earnings. For the first
three months of the term capital
stood at only £lOO,OOO. Reserves
are small, £13,374 less than
intangibles, and an increase in
dividend-rate appears unlikely
until they reach more substantial
proportions.
The 10s. stock-units have a
net tangible backing a little
under 9s. 9d., and, selling at
around 145., give the buyer at
that price a feturn of 7.1 p.c.
from a 10 p.c. div.
Moina Tungsten Tin
MINING and milling at the
old S. and M. mine, 30 miles
from Devonport (Tas.), are now
profitable, but only just, because
of low mine-output. Maximum
output from available working-
faces is 200 tons of ore a week,
while milling capacity is 100 tons
per three-shift day. More money
is needed to increase mine-output
to 330 tons a week, on which, the
co. thinks, profitable operations
will be more reasonably assured.
Ore reserves (positive, 72,773
tons, and possible, 33,100 tons)
and completed development are
in advance of stope-preparation.
To speed-up stoping, install an
air-compressor (already at mine)
and buy additional rock-drilling
equipment, £5OOO is needed. It
is necessary also to pay-off the
overdraft (up to £10,000) and
provide working capital until the
time-lag in realisation of con-
centrates is offset by accumulated
profits.
Given the necessary capital, it
is estimated that mine output can
be raised to the desired figure in
four to five months.
It is now proposed to issue a
maximum of 300,000 10 p.c.
cumulative participating prefs.
of ss. each, to be paid to only
2s. so long as they have a market-
value premium of less than
50 p.c. of the amount paid-up.
These shares will, in addition to
their fixed 10 p.c., “receive the
same amount of all future
dividends paid per share on the
ordinary shares.” The minimum
amount to be raised by this issue
is £Booo—that is, 80,000 shares
paid to 2s. These have been
underwitten.
During the term to March 31,
ote mined was 6773 tons, and
8449 tons was milled, including
ore from dumps. Wolfram con-
centrates totalled 33 tons, and
tin concentrates 27 tons;
together they had a value of
£56,424, and from them a net
profit of £4473 was shown, which
was carried to plant-replacement
reserve.
Ore mined and milled has been
diluted with stoping material and
drive-ore; grade will be lifted
if more working-faces are made
available and closer control of
stope-width exercised. Produc-
tion-costs per ton will fall if
mine-output can be increased ;
the mill seems to be well capable
of handling any output of ore
that is likely to be mined.
Paid capital at present is
£250,000 in f.-p. ss. ord. shares.
Liabilities, including bank-over-
draft, are only £12,638. If the
co. can get over the present
“pinch” in its financial affairs
and step-up mine output, pro-
spects of efficient exploitation of
the ore-body seem quite promis-
ing. Profits will depend, of
course, on metal prices and grade
of ore available. At present ore
is yielding more wolfram than
tin, and with wolfram worth
twice as much as tin, this is a
welcome deviation from the
mine’s previous record of
mineral values.
New England Antimony
ATEW ENGLAND ANTI-
MONY MINES, N.L.
(B. 25/7/’56), has stopped
mining near Guyra (N.S.W.)
because of lack of working
capital. The co. has already
borrowed £25,000 from Com-
monwealth Mining Investments,
and its paid capital is £139,500.
Directors intend to submit to
shareholders proposals to provide
additional finance.
The co.’s problem, apart from
finance, is to keep pay-ore up to
the mill.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Accompanied by their wives, Consuls
of the various countries in which
Katherine Dunham and her dancers have
performed were in the audience at the
Princess Theatre for the second
programme. In the audience also were
Mrs. David Martin, wearing a sapphire-
blue mink stole over a black frock; Mrs.
Frank Martin, also in a black ensemble ;
sisters Jenny and Eileen Brennan, the
Alan Benjamins, Mr. and Mrs. Nelson
Plant, Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs. Massey
Burnside, Mr. and Mrs. Eric Lampe,
Ann Hay and Nanette Allen.
☆ ☆ ☆
Over 1000 attended the ball at the
Palais de Danse, St. Kilda, which
celebrated the centenary of the Royal
Women’s Hospital. Huge urns filled with
pink and white blossom and early spring-
flowers were set in the foyer ; there were
storks carrying celluloid babies; and on
each table pink and white camellias were
arranged, and clusters of multicolored
balloons. The hospital colors—pale-blue
and gold—highlighted the official table.
But what caught the eye of every guest
was the cake, a model of the Royal
Women’s Hospital as it will be when
rebuilding is completed.
During the evening the cake was cut
by the Lord Mayor, Sir Frank Selleck.
Hospital-president Mrs. Lytton Stephens
(who wore Parma-violet Chantilly-lace
swathed with matching chiffon), with ball-
committee chairman Mrs. George
Simpson (in pink and gold silk-organza)
received the official party, which included
the Lord Mayor and Lady Selleck (whose
full-skirted gown of pale-mauve and blue
tulle had iridescent beads on bodice and
hipline). Other official guests included
Professor A. M. Claye, of Leeds Uni-
versity, and Mrs. Claye, Sir Frank and
Lady Tait, Professor and Mrs. Lance
Townsend, Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Gleadall,
Mr. and Mrs. Myles Wright, Dr. Basil
Stewart, Commander and Mrs. A. J.
White, Miss Kathleen Syme, and hospital
treasurer Gordon Leckie and Mrs. Leckie.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a capacity-house at Her
Majesty’s Theatre for the Gilsullivan
season, which traditionally opened with
“The Gondoliers,” beautifully costumed
for chorus and. principals.
Noted in the audience: Lady Tait,
wearing a royal-blue gown and a cape-
stole of white Arctic-fox ; Mrs. W. Cook
and Mrs. R. W. Davis, both wearing
full-length mink coats over evening-
gowns ; Mrs. Bettye Fitzgerald, her choice
a dyed-ermine; Mrs. R. Honeyman,
whose theatre-coat of dark-grey paper-
shantung had the deep cuffs embroidered
in green and gold sequins ; Mrs. D. J. S.
Mackinnon, who wore a hip-length
Chinese jacket of gold satin with her
gown ; and Ann Little, whose theatre-
coat was of coral-pink satin.
Also, Mrs. Peg Briggs, her silver-blue
mink-wrap worn with a short frock of
old-gold faille ; her sister, Daphne Kauf-
man, in short white lame frock and mink-
jacket ; Mrs. Gordon Tait, whose lovely
coat was of deep-wine quilted-satin;
Joan Bond, who covered her white silk
frock with a striking coat of cyclamen
satin ; Lyn Hollins, her white poult frock
patterned in large pink roses, and her
stole of similar material; and Carmen
Callil, whose short frock was of blue
satin brocade.
☆ ☆
Members of the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital have
every right to be proud of one recent
effort —raising £2218 from their annual
July 4 ball. The cheque was presented to
hospital president Lady Murdoch at the
25th annual meeting of the auxiliary,
which was preceded by a luncheon at the
E.S.U. rooms in South Yarra. Mrs. J.
Wiedenmayer made the presentation on
behalf of the auxiliary. Present with Lady
Murdoch were auxiliaries deputy-
president Mrs. I. Mclntosh and auxiliaries
organiser Miss C. Winter. The usual fare-
well-gift of a spoon and a life-governor-
ship certificate were presented to Mrs. J. L.
Cokefair, who is returning to the U.S.
Others who were presented with life-
governorships were Mrs. C. Johnson, Mrs.
Gerald Warner (wife of the U.S. Consul-
General), Mrs. J. Burdett, Mrs. R. B.
Brumsted, Mrs. A. F. May, Mrs. J.
Garside and Mrs. J. Wiedenmayer.
In the past the Australian woman has
bought her new hat to match an ensemble.
This season she will follow the smart
French woman and buy her hat first, then
the ensemble to go with it. The lovely
collection shown by Anne Collins (of
Sydney) at the Hotel Australia emphasised
this. Each model had its own silhouette,
and trimming was used to harmonise and
complete the original line.
Most important is the angle at which a
hat is worn. The cloche is worn straight
on'the head, and the tiny brims come
down over the brow in alluring fashion.
Toques also are worn straight, and often
they are draped or made entirely of
flowers. Crowns are mostly large, but the
balance of the hat is kept by the lightness
of the material used and by discretion
in their trimming.
A new glamor-material used was straw-
organza, which has a very fine silken
finish that suits hats both large and
small. Another exotic material is petit-
point, a closely-woven straw-cloth, soft
and pliable and with a pearly, lustrous
finish. Tulle was used to make the large,
flattering hat. Tulle made one of the
loveliest models seen in the collection:
“Printemps,” a Dior creation, was a huge
cartwheel of black tulle, its crown lightly
loaded with creamy-pink roses veiled in
black net. Another material has a gros*-
grain base woven through with a strong
fibre; it’s known as faille or laize-
paysanne in France, but America calls
it mohair-laize.
This spring flowers will bloom in pro-
fusion on hats. The rose is the most
popular in Paris, closely followed by the
lily, sunflower and daisy. Blue is the
season’s color, ranging from the soft
misty shades to vibrant turquoise. Among
new colors is Paulette’s “rose granat,”
which has the softness of a faded rose.
Greatly admired, was Vernier’s model,
“Imprime,” a large hat,
The Duchess of Kent wore one to the
Gold Cup meeting at Ascot, and it has
been the success of the London season.
Another very pleasing model was
Vernier’s “Cygne Blanc,” a pillbox made
of White goose-feathers. A border of
white swansdown and one red rose
placed at the side were added features.
Just four roses clustered together
formed a delectable design by Paulette.
The “granat” roses were centred with
turquoise stamens.
The classical lines of this smart
tailored hat probably inspired its designer.
Svend of Paris, to name it “Helene.” It
is made in the new material, the soft
beige laize-paysanne, and is worn here
by lovely Sydney model Judy Barra-
clough. “Helene” was one of the many
exciting hats seen in the Anne Collins
collection. Ray Leighton (Sydney) photo.
When Louise, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Alan Palmer, of Toorak, made her
debut at a dance at No. 9 Darling-street
more than 150 guests were entertained,
many of whom had been fellow-pupils
at St. Catherine’s with the guest-of-
honor. Bowls of early spring flowers,
blue tulle festoons arranged as drapings
on supper-table cloths, silver candelabra
based with posies of flowers (which during
supper were presented to the girls)
formed the decorations. Louise wore an
Empire-line gown in ciel-blue lace, the
high bodice, embroidered with pear-drop
pearls, carrying matching satin ribbon,
which, draped to the back, finished in a
bustle-bow. Mrs. Palmer’s choice was
a short, bouffant frock of white lace
appliqued to mushroom-pink satin, with
roses clustered in the bustle-bow.
Among the guests were Mary Banner-
man, whose short frock was in gay
floral design; Anita Firth, whose frock
of pale silver-grey taffeta carried a sash
of olive-green taffeta ; Caroline Green,
her grey-and-white polished-cotton frock
having a windowbox bodice of white
organdie; and Margaret Calder, in dark-
grey polished-cotton with a white flower-
pattern.
SYDNEY
Star of the exciting play “Witness for
the Prosecution,” at the Elizabethan
Theatre, Nicolette Bernard is an actress
of French and English parents who began
her career at the age of 16. She has worked
under the direction of Tyrone Guthrie,
has played opposite Robert Donat and
toured Europe and New York with Sir
Laurence Olivier and Sir Ralph Richard-
son for the Old Vic Company. Her most
recent appearances in London were in
“Dangerous Curves,” by Peter Cheyney,
and in the role she is playing at present
in the Agatha Christie thriller. Photo by
A.P.A.
Spring-parades are bursting into bloom
all over the place now, and there is bound
to be a lavish flowering in the forth-
coming weeks. This year fashions are
new and unusual, with many amusing
twists to keep us gay, and an emphasis on
femininity that is welcome to all.
During the week, perhaps the most in-
teresting parade was the one at David
Jones’, because there we saw dresses from
six countries —England, France, Ger-
many, U.S., Italy and Australia—modelled
by mannequins typical of each nation.
For instance, Dexter Vaughan, the
English girl, looked like a lily in slender
gowns by Digby Morton or bouffant
glitter by Norman Hartnell. America’s
Gloria Welch Case had all the sparkle,
polish and exuberance necessary to carry-
off the clever American clothes (one cotton
dress successfully combined orange and
cerise); the little French girl, Frangoise
Baudelot, wore Dior’s imaginatively-
simple clothes with a piquant air ; the
blonde and slender Grit Huebscher intro-
duced the German dresses so successfully
that they were generally the most popular
with the audience; and Australia’s Joan
Bilceaux made everyone proud both of
her and of the clothes she wore.
This parade continues till August 16.
There is still time to see it, and it is well
worth the seeing.
# V V
Of course, hats are the most talked-of
items in the new season’s fashions. At
first they seemed absurd, then amusing,
then “rather nice,” then highly desirable,
and now an absolute necessity. They
float like clouds round one’s head, or like
some space-sent flying-saucer from an-
other planet which has alighted for a
moment and will take-off shortly, bear-
ing the wearer with it. One man said they
made women look like a hydrogen-bomb
explosion (oh, dear!), and it was reported
that a police-horse got such a fright at
the sight of one in Market-street that he
reared, fell and rolled on his rider!
☆ ☆ ☆
Amateur models showed the hats at
the party which Mrs. A. Redler, wife of
the Consul for Guatemala, gave at her
Double Bay home on Thursday in aid
of the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund. Mrs.
Muller, whose husband is Consul-General
for Germany, wore the new hats with an
air, while Mary Stephen, Zoe Redler and
Angela Money, with Mrs. Redler herself,
helped to persuade the 80-or-so guests
that this was the only way to look this
year.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. P. D. Hills,
was present, and the compere was Mrs.
Tom Bateman, definitely the most ener-
getic compere of the season, for she fol-
lowed the mannequins round from room
to room and described the hats three
times, spicing the commentary with amus-
ing notes, such as: “Now, this nylon-
straw in white is like two sponge-cakes,
one a success, one a failure.” It was, too.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another fashion - point introduced
during the week was a cotton dress-fabric
'which can be pelted with coffee, ink,
tomato-sauce and suchlike enemies to
good grooming, without losing its com-
posure. A little water rids it of the ink,
or what you will, and it dries in no time.
It is made by a London firm, is called
“Howcol,” and will be available next
year. Perhaps the University students
may have it in time for Comment.
☆ ☆ ☆
Education Week should not pass out
of memory for another year without a
solid round of applause for the school-
teachers in our midst, who really get very
few pats-on-the-back for what they do
for our youngsters. No one who visited
the schools last week could fail to be
impressed by the wonderful changes that
have taken place in educational method
and by the added value and attractive-
ness of schoolwork generally. This has
not been achieved without devotion and
effort, so let us all make a point of telling
the teachers how much we appreciate
their work.
# #
The McLeods of Sydney, with one or
two representatives from other States,
celebrated on Friday the coming-of-age
of their next chief, John McLeod, grand-
son of Dame Flora—an occasion which
brings a full week of functions to the
Isle of Skye and the presence there of
the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh and
Princess Margaret. There were no pipers
at the R.E. rooms in Sydney, but Mrs.
Jessie Osborne played Scottish airs on
the piano, and Scottish reminiscence was
the order of the day. The Bruce
McLeods welcomed the guests. Mr. and
Mrs. Gordon McLeod (Maroubra),
whose son Angus represents the society
at Skye, were present; also Senator Reid
and Mrs. Reid {nee McLeod), Mr.
Norman Owen McLeod (Bathurst) and
Mr. George McLeod from Perth. The
Chisholm clan was represented by Mr.
and Mrs. H. Chisholm, Miss Miriam
Chisholm (Kippilaw, Goulburn) and Miss
Margaret Stephen. Mr. Clement Hosking,
president of the Gaelic Society, was also
present.
# # *
The R.S.L. Victory Ball, attended this
year by over 1100 guests, made a feature
of the presentation of its 19 debs, to the
Commonwealth Administrator, Sir John
Northcott. All daughters of ex-service-
men, they danced a cotillion with their
partners (who were in white-tie and
tails) and made a lo.vely picture in their
bouffant white dresses, their white
coronets of flowers and the floral baskets
on their arms. Mrs. Ella Westwood,
0.8. E., who trained the debs., looked
most attractive in midnight-blue satin
printed in gold. The debs, were all seated
at one table, and during the evening his
Excellency cut their cake for them. The
president of the R.S.L., Mr. W. Yeo,
received the guests with Mrs. Yeo (who
wore pink tiered brocade). As always,
the flower-decorations were really beauti-
ful, and the ball had its special family-
reunion quality of gaiety.
# # #
St. Vincent’s Hospital, which is 99
years old now and will have its 100th
birthday in August, 1957, is appealing for
£500,000 so that it may extend its present
good work and provide for medical and
nuclear-medical research. The appeal,
which started in April, already has
£60,000, its latest contribution coming
from the proceeds of the Police Ball Cen-
tenary held in July. The cheque for
£1205 ss. was handed to the chairman of
the appeal, Professor S. H. Roberts, by
Police Commissioner Delaney at the hos-
pital on Wednesday. Inspector Mijtch
and Constable Hoban, who organised the
ball, were present.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH FREDERICK MACKAY late
of 441 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARJORIE ELLA MACKAY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3132
of 1953 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 26th day of October 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. J. W. MILNE &
BERRY, Solicitors, 310 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN OSBOURNE BRADY late of
20 Stoney Creek Road Bexley near Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that BERYL JOYCE
BRADY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 601 of 1966 on the grounds-of re-
peated assaults and cruel beatings during
a period of one year prior to the presen-
tation of the Petition If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 19th day of October
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. WILLIAM
HODGEKISS & COMPANY, Solicitors, of
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO DAVID CYRIL ROGERS formerly
of Nullagine, Western Australia. —TAKE
NOTICE that ENA ELLA ROGERS has
commenced action No. 314/1956 against
you in the Supreme Court of Western
Australia for dissolution of Marriage
on the ground of your entire failure for
a period of three (3) years immediately
prior to the commencement of this
action to pay maintenance under an order
of a competent Court and she seeks the
exercise of the discretion of the Court
in her favour under Section 27 of the
Matrimonial Causes and Personal Status
Code 1948-1964 If you desire to defend
the said Action you must within 40
clear days from the date of publication
of this Notice file your defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court at
Perth In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence Dated the
6th day of August 1956. G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
MAXWELL LALOR and SHARP, of 28
Barrack Street, Perth, Solicitors for the
abovenamed Plaintiff.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Summer and Smoke”
This Tennessee Williams play,
already reviewed from a Mel-
bourne performance and cur-
rently offering at the Indepen-
dent Theatre, North Sydney, is
another of the author’s disser-
tations on the eternal theme —
one wonders if he is setting out
to compile a kind of theatrical
Kinsey Report on the repressions
and obsessions of the American
female.
In this case the main exhibit
is a parson’s daughter who has
very mixed feelings about the
next-door doctor’s son, whose
feelings are not at all mixed
about the kind of wine and
women he prefers. The girl’s
attitude towards the young man
is so conditioned by her rectory
upbringing, by tea-parties, by
polite discussion-groups, and so
forth, that she has little hope of
understanding her feelings to-
wards him, and less of under-
standing his feelings towards her.
Mr. Williams, of course, is not
given to untangling this kind of
situation or letting it off lightly
—his usual formula seems to be
a good swipe straight through
it and then a sad and sentimental
glance at the remains. The swipe
in this instance is accomplished
by having the young man’s
father, a selfless medico devoted
to his calling, killed by the
drunken father of one of his
son’s less-virtuous girl-friends.
The shock cures the young man
of his wining and wenching, and
sends him off to fight and beat a
fever-plague.
The girl meanwhile has suf-
fered such a mental upheaval
that she has shaken off her tea-
party inhibitions and, after the
young man returns, goes to him
and more-or-less offers him
everything on a plate. He, how-
ever, having originally regarded
her as too cold to be interesting,
now, in his reformed state, sees
her as too pure to touch, and has
got himself engaged to a pretty
little bint with nary an inhi-
bition in her make-up.
As a conclusion to all this, Mr.
Williams immediately sends the
parson’s daughter off to the
park to pick-up the first commer-
cial-traveller who comes along
and go off to fate worse than
death with him. The apparent
implausibility of this ending
might have been due to Mr.
Williams or to the Independent
production. It seemed, from
what had gone before, the last
thing the young lady would do
unless she had gone completely
round the bend, but neither the
author nor the performance
made that very plain one way or
the other.
Doris Fitton’s production is
crisp and sensitive, but, because
it avoids some of Williams’s
sentimentality, has a touch of
harshness about it —possibly an
unintentional but accurate criti-
cism of the play. As the parson’s
daughter, however, Patricia Hill
gives a remarkably moving per-
formance, and one could almost
feel her emotions fighting and
fluttering like a caged bird. As
the young man, Ronald Frazer
fits without much subtlety, and
Edward Howell, as the doctor,
gives one of his usual perform-
ances—because one always ex-
pects them to be good, it is
often too easy to take them as a
matter of course.
❖ * *:♦
William Herbert
Dr. Floyd once remarked to
the present writer, “You’re
listening to the most intelligent
singer and the finest voice ever
produced in Australia.” The
fact that William Herbert was
the doctor’s pupil as a chorister
at St. Paul’s Cathedral and was
in a sense his product doesn’t
invalidate the judgment.
Herbert returned to the Mel-
bourne Town Hall platform
under the Kurt Woess baton
after nine years of singing in
the most exalted English and
European circles and, in Ben-
jamin Britten’s Serenade for
Tenor, French Horn and Strings,
displayed the same taste and
sensitiveness of feeling, with a
mellowed artistry into the
bargain. His tone was 9 at times
so rich and flutelike that it
might easily have come from the
instrument wielded by Ray
White, who gave his usual
masterly performance.
At the subsequent “blue”
concert Herbert’s voice was
heard again in the same piece
and once more brought the
house up all-standing. The
Third Symphony of Bruckner
added weight sometimes a
little too much weight— to the
programme. The new resident-
conductor drove his > orchestral
team through it with a firm hand.
Pro Musica Operas
Two first-performance one-act
operas—Gustav Holst’s “Savitri”
and Arthur Benjamin’s “Prima
Donna” —presented at Sydney
University by the Pro Musica
Society under Professor Donald
Peart, were noted here last week.
Holst’s opera, almost com-
pletely static, is based on an
episode of the Mahabharata. The
symbolic figure of Death relents
and hands back life to an Indian
woodcutter after the mourning
widow tells Death that life with-
out her husband is also death
for her. Beautiful music is
essential here to offset the almost
total lack of movement, but the
melodic line never rises above
the commonplace, and too often
descends into dull monotony.
The production, too, was
weak. Baritone William Diamond
sang with strong forthrightness,
but his make-up, costume and
manner suggested a respectable
suburbanite in fancy-dress, and,
as the man reprieved from death,
Ralph Middenway was wooden,
with a tenor thin, inexpressive
and lacking in quality. Gloria
Smith, as the wife, sang with
sympathy and feeling in a mezzo-
soprano of pleasing timbre.
In the second offering, how-
ever, Arthur Benjamin excels.
The plot, by Cedric Cliffe, is
alive with good situations and
snappy dialogue. Set in 18th-
century Venice, it concerns a
chronically-broke young gentle-
man who, at short notice, is
expected to provide his visiting
rich and amorous uncle with
suitable feminine company.
Complications occur when two
girls, instead of one, turn-up,
and, as neither will yield place,
they both appear. Uncle has
been so plied with wine that he
not only thinks he is seeing
double but also hearing double,
as the two sing the same song
one bar behind the other. This
and other witty writing, includ-
ing some really funny work for
the bassoon during a winebibbing
session, give the music lift and
gaiety in keeping with the story.
The opera, too, was well served
by the principals. As the uncle,
Alan Light sang with power and
acted with spontaneity and a
capital sense of fun. Frank
Lisle, as the nephew, and Allan
Ferris, as his helpful friend, were
also good, and the three sang
the best number in the opera—
the trio as the two young men
set out to fuddle the old man.
Nerissa Niblo and Denise
Thompson, as the girls, raised
attractive coloraturas, and
Bernadette Quin, as the maid
who eventually saves a threatened
desperate situation, was ade-
quate.
♦l< $
Abbey Theatre, Dublin
The Abbey Theatre has been
dispossessed of its building,
which is now unsafe. “Pending
rebuilding and enlargement,” the
company is appearing at the
Queen’s, a former music-hall.
To find the pitch of this old-
fashioned, barnlike theatre pre-
sents an exacting challenge to
both producer and players, but
it is not beyond them. One
visitor from London was thrilled
by the punch of the direction
and the vigorous freshness of the
acting.
A new Irish play would,
perhaps, have been more
rewarding than “Juno and the
Paycock,” which can hardly be
said to carry its 30 years lightly.
But at least it was authentic,
with local accents and a cast that
was preponderantly Gaelic in
name.
Ria Mooney’s production was
forthright to starkness, playing-
down the comedy (the celebra-
tion-party was quite a solemn,
wistful affair) and emphasising,
with really telling effect, the
debilitating squalor of tenement-
life.
To see a one-act play in Irish,
“Ull Glas Oiche Shamhna,” was
also an experience out of the run
of a London playgoer. It was
also a gratifying surprise to
recognise a line that could be
understood and to learn that
this phrase—“Ena, mena, mina,
mo”—may be common to all
languages.
There was distinction in the
performance of this trifle, an
Irish legend about a girl eating
a green apple before a mirror
on Hallowe’en and expecting to
see, over her left shoulder, the
image of the man she will marry.
In the play the girl imagines
herself married, in turn, to
various of her acquaintances,
until, happily dissipating her
rather apprehensive dreams, her
true-love appears in person.
The treatment gains by being
sophisticated, not folksy, and
the result is amusing. It is an
excellent vehicle for a young
actress to improvise her comedy-
playing and should be wider
known, in translation. After
playing the hapless Mary in the
other play, Doirin Nf Mhaidin
quite evidently enjoyed letting
herself go.
H. H. (London).
Artbursts
Watercolors
With Hans Heysen in every
way comparable to David Cox,
Cotman and Peter de Wint,
Hilder having more charm if
less brilliance than Brabazon,
and Norman Lindsay unique in
imaginative figure-compositions,
watercolor painting has attained
a very high standard in Aus-
tralia ; and it is good to see at
the Watercolor Institute exhibi-
tion at David Jones’, Sydney, that
the tradition is being maintained.
Since Norman Lindsay, though
still painting as well as ever, can
no longer be persuaded to exhibit
—Rah - Fizelle and Frank
McNamara are also missing—
and since neither John Elder-
shaw nor G. K. Townshend is at
his best, the show does not reach
the heights; but the average
quality seems higher than in
recent years, and there seems to
be a happier marriage than
usual between tradition and
experiment; probably because
most of the weaklings on both
sides have been eliminated.
Clinging obstinately to the
belief that art should have some-
thing to do with life, and even
the love of Nature, this com-
mentator prefers the crimson
glow of Nornie Gude’s roses,
the clear light of J. W. Maund’s
Hawkesbury sunset and the feel-
ing for old stone and dank
greenery in Mollie Flaxman’s
“Steps” to the harder technical
assurance of Hector Gilliland’s
sombre nocturne of “House
Backs, Rozelle” or Ronald
Steuart’s clever bits of Chinoi-
serie from the beaches; both
kinds of work have their merits.
Among the most interesting
pictures are George Bell’s (not
the Melbourne artist) curious
reminiscence of El Greco’s
Toledo in his circular-patterned
“Newcastle”; Ronald Fletcher’s
soft white city in “Between
Showers”; J. Nixon Gee’s
colossal Tasmanian cliffs;
Margaret Coen’s “Bush Water-
fall” ; Kenneth Jack’s tinted
drawings with their odd look of
surviving from the period of
Gill and Skinner Prout; Dora
Jarret’s warm panel from Italy
and attractive portrait of “Girl
with Scarf” ; John S. Loxton’s
rich if calendarlike “Country
Road” ; Hal Missingham’s green
seashore, with its hard pencil-
stripes of rain; May Neil’s
“Week-ender”; Carl Plate’s
racehorses; Max Ragless’s
“Coff’s Harbor” ; Betty Rowe’s
sunny “The Rocks”; and the
pleasant green landscape in
Brian Stratton’s “Waterhole,
Grose Vale.”
&
Society of Artists
The N. S. Wales Society of
Artists’ exhibition at the Educa-
tion Department gallery is large,
crowded and confused and gives
a general impression of having
been painted with a mattock.
If the society is moving in any
perceptible direction, which is
always difficult to determine, it
is wobbling into the field of the
Contemporary Society instead of
being, as in its best years, a place
for the contemporaries to climb
to, when they grew up.
However, it still performs that
most useful function. If
Carrington Smith’s “Dream-
crossed, Moonlight” is to be
defined as a “contemporary”
painting it is a quiet and a
haunting one, and painted with
technical assurance.
And if Carl Plate’s “Four
Down,” where he continues to
brood about falling racehorses
as mysteriously as John Pass-
more broods about seagulls, is
similarly “contemporary” it
seems at last satisfactorily to
have said whatever it is Mr.
Plate has been trying so earnestly
to say. Wallace Thornton’s
young girls continue to be
elusively appealing, if only his
textures wouldn’t continue to
look so scruffy.
The solider quality of previous
years is maintained in Lloyd
Rees’s “Illawarra Coast,” a
return to-| his best manner *in
which the massive rocks seem to
creep through time like lava.
And, of course, there is a charm-
ing Murch, “The Sleeper”—a
new beach-girl, aged about 12.
Other paintings: Judy
Cassab’s lemon-colored nude;
Jeffrey Smart’s curving railway-
station, for ever haunted by an
empty perambulator; John
Bucklow’s “Hartley Vale,”
apparently under the influence
of Wakelin ; Michael Kmit more
decorative than usual; John
Eldershaw’s “Balmain”; George
F. Lawrence’s “Dusk, City
Street”; Elaine Haxton back
from China with a clean drawing
of “Pearl River, Canton”;
Orban’s pleasing “Tuscan Land-
scape,” not nearly so black as
his Florence; Santry’s vivid
“Domain” ; two landscapes by
Lorraine Haines; • Herbert
Badham’s flat green “Night”;
and James Barker’s warmly
colored “Studio without
Figures,” which has an asterisk
against it in the catalogue to
indicate that he is a “young
artist exhibitor.”
Talkies
“The Man Who Knew Too
Much” (Sydney Prince
Edward): Alfred Hitchcock in
good form with a thriller about a
touring American doctor and his
wife who, in Algeria, stumble
across a plot to assassinate a
statesman in London. They set
out to scotch it without benefit
of Scotland Yard, and Hitchcock
puts new angles to old tricks,
uses the Camera and silences to
great advantage, and has in
James Stewart an old reliable
hand at this sort of thing. Doris
Day turns in a good perform-
ance, and the denouement, at a
big choral concert in the Albert
Hall, is a hair-raiser.
“Wedding Breakfast” (Sydney
St. James): Ernest Borgnine
follows his good work in
“Marty” with another solid
performance as a man who
endeavors to prevent his wife
(Bette Davis) splashing-up the
family savings on a flash wed-
ding for their daughter. As in
“Marty,” the domestic scenes
are penetrating and the comedy
spontaneous. Barry Fitzgerald
does a good character-job as a
selfish relative seeking only his
own comfort.
“Mister Roberts” (Sydney
Regent): Henry Fonda makes a
welcome return to films in this
story about the first-officer on a
U.S. naval odd-jobs ship during
the war, and his quiet but effec-
tive opposition to the waspish
little skipper, an old Merchant
Navy man who has no time for
Navy Regulars. Fonda, as the
officer shock-absorber who calls
on a big repertoire of wiles to
protect the ratings from the
skipper’s wrath, gets his laughs
with subtlety, and there is
hilarity in almost every foot of
the film.


Brigalow
By
R.S.
PORTEOUS
STORY TO NOW
Twenty-six-year-old cattleman
Bob Anders becomes overseer of
Yakaparni, far out in Central
Queensland, an appointment
brought about by city bank-
manager Forster, who knows
that the property is being allowed
to run-down. Owner Carson,
though strongly attached to his
station, hates cattle-work and
gives Bob a free hand to make
changes, including a new team
of cattlemen—Wonga Watkins,
Mick Grey, Steve Hartley and
Duffy Spooner, with 13-year-old
Tommy as horseboy, and young
cattledogs Sneezer and Boozer.
Mrs. Carson admirably looks
after the homestead and quietly
manages her explosive husband.
In weekend breaks Bob has
divided his time between reunions
with war-time mates, the Stewart
brothers, at Curly Ryan’s Dilargo
township pub, and becoming
involved with Carla Greer,
daughter of the township's
popular doctor. On the station
he now has the company of
Julia Carson, just finished city
schooling. Drought and a bad
bush fire have near-wrecked'
Yakaparni, but the rain has
come.
CHAPTER XXIII
WE were all up early next
morning. It had rained
steadily until midnight
and we were anxious to
see how much had fallen.
Almost five-inches, Carson
measured.
Below the house the creek
was in high flood, the water lilies
either swept away or left in
untidy tangles. It was a safe bet
that every waterhole on the run
was full, but I had to see them
for my own satisfaction.
I ran the horses in oefore
breakfast, and was squatting to
put the hobbles on the night
horse when I heard Julie’s voice
behind me ask:
“Are we going out for a look
around?”
I buckled the hobble-straps
and stood up. She was dressed
in riding-togs.
“Where do you get this ‘we’
from?” I asked. “I’m going out.
You’re staying home.”
“Why can’t I come?”
She put the question meekly.
“Don’t be silly, child,” I
answered. “The creeks will all
be up. Sandy Creek’s sure to be
running a banker.”
Sandy Creek was a big creek
with high, steep banks. There
were a few permanent waterholes
in its winding length, but in the
main its bed was dry sand for
most of the year. Bluegums and
big paperbark tea-trees lined its
banks, and, possibly because
their roots were deep down in
moisture, they were among the
few trees to remain green
throughout the drought.
I had never seen Sandy Creek
in full flood, but I had an idea
the current would be swift.
“I can swim.” There was a
touch of defiance in her tone.
“I was in the school team.”
“That doesn’t mean a thing,”
I told her. “There’s a hell of a
difference between swimming in
a school baths in swimming-togs
and crossing a flooded creek fully
dressed, especially if your horse
chucks it in halfway across.
Horses do that sort of thing, you
know.”
She thrust her hands into the
pockets of her riding-trousers and
walked moodily away, so I called
after her.
“Hold on a minute! Ask your
old man what he thinks about
it. Better ask your mother, too.
If they think it’s all right, I’ll
take you.”
She must have used some
fairly persuasive arguments,
because at breakfast-time Carson
said, “I dunno why you two are
in such a hell of a hurry to get
out. If you had any sense at all
you’d wait till the creeks fall.”
“And miss half the fun,” Julie
said. “Don’t be so stuffy,
Daddy.”
I knew nothing about the
swimming-qualities of the Yaka-
parni horses, so we caught two
quiet ones and hoped for the
best. Some horses will swim
eagerly, some will refuse to enter
running water, and some will
panic in midstream and drown
through sheer terror.
I explained this to Julie as
we saddled-up, with the dogs
watching us eagerly.
“Are we going to take them?”
Julie asked.
“The dogs? Too right we are.
The poor beggars haven’t been
away from the house for weeks.
No water for them, and the cattle
were too weak, anyway.”
We swung into our saddles
and I called, “Right-oh, dogs,
you can come.”
They scampered ahead of us,
twisting and turning in delight.
They splashed through the
shallow water in the gully, paus-
ing every now and then to lap
it up eagerly. Sneezer seemed
to satisfy his thirst there, but
Boozer drank from every water-
hole and puddle he came to. If
the water was deep he swam and
drank at the same time.
And I must admit I felt like
following his example. It was
so grand to see water every-
where, to see the whole country
washed clean, the blackness
washed away, and the sky washed
clean of smoke. In a day or two
the earth would be green again,
and in a week or two the trees
would be covering themselves
with fresh green leaves.
SANDY CREEK was running
a foaming yellow banker,
twenty to thirty yards wide and
over six feet deep. Logs and
branches bobbed and twisted in
the swift-flowing current, and,
as we watched, the bloated
carcass of a cow swirled past.
A few hundred yards down-
stream debris was piled high
against some half-submerged tea-
tree saplings that writhed and
swayed madly. Thick yellow
foam filled every backwater and
piled high against every
obstruction.
Boozer was first in. He swam
out into the current, let it carry
him about twenty yards down-
stream, and then paddled
nonchalantly back to the bank.
And all the time his pink tongue
was darting in and out, lapping
up . the water.
“That dog’ll bust,” Julie
declared.
“Never mind the dog,” I said.
“You’ve got to think what that
current’ll do to you. Are you
still game to tackle it?”
“Of course I am,” she laughed.
“I’m just dying to try it.”
There was no doubt about it,
the kid had guts. I made her
dismount and take off her
riding-boots while I gave her a
few tips on swimming her horse,
a sturdy little bay named Dodger.
“Don’t try to sit in the saddle,”
I warned as I tucked her dis-
carded boots inside my shirt.
“Take a good grip of his mane
and let him sort of tow you
along. Get one elbow over his
neck ; you’ll find you can manage
the reins easily in that position,
but if he starts to play-up let go
everything. And don’t try to
fight the current —go with it,
even if you land half-a-mile
downstream.”
We picked a shelving back-
water, and, though I had to spur
my horse vigorously to get him
in, Dodger took to the water as
readily as Boozer did. Like
Boozer, he waded calmly in,
drinking as he went. The water
came up to his withers and Julie
grasped his mane and slid out of
the saddle,
i was congratulating myself on
having picked a good swimmer
for her when Dodger stepped
into a hole. He went completely
under, and for a second or two
only Julie was visible. He came
up feeling the strong grip of the
current, and did a complete
panic,
Instead of swimming, he tried
rear himself out of the water,
or rather climb out of it, for he
was diking at it frantically with
his forefeet, and the whites of
his eyes were showing terror. A
p U p w j|] sometimes do the same
thing the first time he finds
himself out of his depth, but a
p U p can on jy scra tch anyone in
his vicinity—the flailing hooves
a horse can break limbs and
even k jll.
“Let him go, Julie,” I yelled.
„ Let (he bas | ard drown . Grab
hnr „ p .„ » ‘
,\' . .
1 had my mOUnt swimmm §
and as 1 S ulded him
close to the stru B§ lm B Dodger
shg h ed herself clear, swam
a couple of strokes and fastened
, „„ .
The bloody fool!” she
§ as Pf d - <Tb£ \ bl l ood y blasted
he know how to
swim-
“ You hang on,” I cautioned.
“Forget about him.”
The current had us in mid-
stream, and as we swept past
Dodger the look of terror faded
from his eyes and he struck out
in determined pursuit, apparently
deciding that if his mate could
swim he could.
We struggled ashore in a
frothy backwater, caught him
and cursed him. Half seriously
I cursed Julie also.
“Yqu should have stayed at
home,” I told her. “I knew
you’d only be a blasted
nuisance.”
“Can I help it if my horse
tries to drown himself?” she
retorted. “You picked him.
You’re supposed to be the
overseer, supposed to know all
about all the horses.”
Instead of pointing out that
the Yakaparni horses had had
no opportunities for swimming
since I took-over, I said irritably,
“I’m not supposed to be a nurse-
maid to bad-tempered bloody
kids. If I’d been by myself I
could have hung my clothes up
to dry while I had a swim. You
might like it, but I’m not fond
of riding in wet clothes.”
“Dry your rotten clothes!”
she stormed, her small freckled
face flushing with anger. “I
don’t need you to look after me.
The only decent thing about you
is your dogs, and even they can’t
have too much taste or they
wouldn’t follow you.”
The absurdity of the situation
struck me.
“Look, Julia,” I said, “I don’t
know who started this stupid
nonsense, but if I did I’m sorry.”
I handed her her boots. “Pull
them on and let’s get going.
Wet clothes couldn’t hurt anyone
in this weather. We’ll be dry
before we’re out of the weaner-
paddock.”
A LTHOUGH we had no more
swims, every creek we came
to was running strongly and
every waterhole was full. We
could have turned back early
and been home in time for lunch,
but I wanted to see Pink Lily
Lagoon.
“I know,” I answered, when
Julie pointed out quite logically
that it was sure to be full; “but
I can’t go home without seeing
it.”
I think she understood how I
felt; how, after months of
watching the water dry back and
back until only a small circle of
liquid mud remained, I carried
a picture in my mind that could
only be erased by actually
witnessing the miracle of
replacement.
Even if one of the boys had
ridden out and reported that it
was full I would still have wanted
to see it for myself. It had been
the scene of so much heart-
breaking work, of fencing, shift-
ing cattle and pulling out the
bogged ones. And then there
was the tough old cow Bike-
handle Bertha ; it would be nice
to know that the patient old soul
had survived.
I told Julie all about Bertha
as we rode along, and made her
laugh at my description of
Wonga repeatedly getting the old
cow to her feet in the drought
and escorting her through the
break in the fence each day.
Pink Lily Lagoon was full. It
was overflowing, a brown lake of
fresh water that hid all but the
very tops of our fence-posts. In
a month or two the waterlilies
would be thrusting their pink
buds through the surface and
the water would be clear and
clean.
A few head of cattle were
camped on the far bank, and on
our side, in splendid isolation,
stood Bike-handle Bertha, her
shaggy old hide washed clean of
mud. She was staring con-
tentedly out over the water, the
expression on her face as we
rode up to her plainly saying, “I
knew it would get filled. It
always does.”
“Julie,’’ I said. “I want you
to meet a very old friend of
mine. This is Bike-handle
Bertha, the, lady I’ve been telling
you about.”
Julie stood up in her stirrups
and bowed low over Dodger’s
neck. “How do you do, Bertha,”
she said gravely. “I’m so pleased
to meet you after all the flatter-
ing things I’ve heard about you.
You must be quite a personality
gal.”
She turned to me and grinned,
and I noticed for the first time
that when she grinned her small
freckled nose wrinkled up where
the bridge Should have been.
“Bob,” she laughed. “You
are a sentimental fool. Fancy
riding all this way just to see
an awful-looking old wreck of
a cow! ”
“Come on.” I swung my
horse around and touched him
lightly with the spurs. “We’d
better canter along. Your mother
and father will be wondering
what’s happened to us.”
Sneezer was right behind us,
but Boozer was doing his usual
stunt in the lagoon, swimming
gently and lapping it up eagerly.
When he saw us moving off he
headed for the shore and con-
centrated on swimming.
“He’ll never keep up with us
with all that water inside him,”
Julie said.
Boozer didn’t attempt the feat.
He scrambled out of the water,
shook himself in a scattering
spray, opened his mouth and
spewed out a great pool of water.
“Now lead on!” his expres-
sion seemed to say, as he pricked
his ears and wagged his tail.
“I’m ready for anything.”
SANDY CREEK had fallen
considerably and we re-
crossed it without trouble. That
was awaiting us when we got
home, to find a furious Carson
at the saddle-rail.
It was after half-past-two, he
pointed out. Where the blazes
had we been? Julie’s mother
had been worried stiff. He had
driven up to Sandy Creek in the
tilly, and had seen our tracks
where they entered the water.
He’d walked a mile downstream
without seeing any tracks on the
far bank. No one but a madman
would have put a horse into that
flood unless it was a matter of
life and death. Bloody wonder
it wasn’t death. Bloody wonder
we weren’t both drowned. What
was the idea in it, anyway?
He stormed and cursed all the
time we were unsaddling, giving
neither of us a chance to answer,
even if there had been a plausible
answer to give.
Julie slipped the bridle over
Dodger’s ears, tossed it into the
saddle-room, and interrupted her
father’s flow by throwing both
arms around his vast girth.
“Poor old Daddy,” she said.
“Were you worried about your
little daughter?” She reached
up and tugged the end of his
moustache. “Or haven t you had
any lunch yet?”
The last question scored a
bullseye. “Of course I haven’t
WINTER
Winter in this city’s world :
and city parks inform my days
with distance, silence and a song
of birds.
Winter is the heart of praise.
In praise of clarity the winds
blow
from the cold south across the
hills
and shake the pear-trees free of
snow —
and slam the door
upon unmade decisions in a
room.
Winter’s ways are not our ways.
O slow and secret corridor
into an inward clarity of days.
O winter at the heart of praise.
Tasmania. Vivian Smith.


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
% ■
mm
s y
m
iS«S? : : :: fe :
P|, ; 'V'
% - -
H
I
:
n.
H
,:v.
■ ■:>:
SS®
' ' ;
gg S
m
S3 m
m.
mm
tm
<r ~
«s
■ gg
mmz : s
'
II ■Mf.1..111»l
UiiikiiuUuii
Sir Waiter Merriman (second from left) being congratulated by one of
the three judges after winning the Merino Ram Grand Championship.
Sir Walter says: “1 have used Ampol Products on my several properties for
years and am convinced that not only Ampol Motor Spirit, but Ampol Kerosines,
Distillate and Oils meet the high standards required by the Primary Producing Indus-
try. 1 find that Ampol’s renowned Service extends beyond their Service Stations
to “The Man on the Land” through the friendly efficiency of their Country Agents ”
Use the best
Australia's own
If
a
Hi
m
a
55
u
PO
AMPUL
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Ampol Distillate © Lighting Kerosine
© Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFM.19.33
had any lunch!” he stormed.
“How the devil could I, with
your mother fussing around like
a cow that’s lost its blasted
calf?”
We went in to lunch then, but
with Mrs. Carson serenely calm
and unreproving it was not hard
to guess who had been doing all
the fussing.
'T'HE boys came out early next
A morning. They were as
elated as we were over the rain,
although Wonga expressed the
opinion that he wouldn’t live to
see the grass turn green.
“Still,” he said, shaking his
head solemnly, “a man had t’
celebrate the breakin’ of the
drought. He couldn’t just sit on
the veranda and watch it rain,
could ’e?”
I put him on the handle of the
grindstone while Mick sharpened
some axes. There would be two
full days’ work for all hands
repairing fences that the flooded
creeks had swept away. After
that the boys would be paid-off
until early in the New Year,
when the cattle would be strong
enough to work.
“Four days to Christmas,”
Mick announced. “You’ll be on
it again then, Wonga.” He
pressed the blade of the axe
against the grindstone. “Turn
the bloody thing a bit faster.”
“Faster!” Wonga clasped his
free hand to his wrinkled fore-
head. “Y’ want a man to live
till Christmas, don’t y’? If I go
any faster me bloody ’ead’ll
drop off.”
Two mornings later Carson
and I paid the boys off and shook
hands all round.
“Merry Christmas,” they
called as they rode off. “See yez
again in the Noo Year.”
Only Tommy appeared
unhappy. He hung back
uncertainly before asking, “What
about me, boss? Will I get me
job back next year?”
“Too right you will,” I
assured him. “We couldn’t run
this place without you.”
A delighted grin spread across
his face, and he cantered off
after the others.
Carson drove me in to Dilargo
after lunch. At his suggestion, I
was taking a few weeks off. He
pointed out that there was
nothing urgent for me to do,
and said that a rest would do me
good. And on the whole I agreed
with him.
“There’s only the pear,” I
reminded him. “We’ll have to
try to get hold of some men for
poisoning as soon as I get back.
It’s the one thing that’s thrived
through the drought.”
“Blasted pear!” he snarled.
' We’ll never get rid of it. It’s
like pouring money down a
drain. I won’t spend another
bob on it. Damned if 1 will.
They must think I’m made of
money. Let ’em make a fuss if
they want to. Let ’em take me
to court. I’ll go to jail before
I’ll clear their blasted pear.”
CFIAPTER XXIV
AS soon as I got down to the
city I paid Carson’s cheque
in and opened an account at his
bank. It was good to feel a new
cheque-book in my pocket, and
know I could use it extravagantly
while my holiday lasted.
I was turning away from the
counter when the manager’s door
opened and Forster appeared.
“Bob! ” he exclaimed, peer-
ing at me over the tops of his
glasses. “Don’t tell me you
were walking out without calling
on me! Come in and sit down.
Dammit, man, I want to talk to
you.”
He practically pushed me into
a chair, sat down opposite me
and picked up a pencil.
“Well,” he demanded, “how
are things on Yakaparni?”
“Pretty good now,” I told him.
“You heard about the rain, of
course? ”
“Yes, yes. Five inches.
Wonderful.” He drew a few
slanting lines on his blotter,
prompting me to say, “No, it
wasn’t like that.”
“Eh? What’s that?” The
pencil paused for a moment and
he stared at me in astonishment.
“The rain,” I laughed. “It
didn’t come down in a slant the
way you’ve drawn it. There was
no wind, so it fell straight down.”
“Good heavens!” He grinned
and tossed the pencil aside. “I
must get out of this habit. It is
becoming a habit. Noticed
myself doing it several times
lately. Must be the worry of the
infernal drought. How many
head would you say you lost?”
“Put it down at a hundred-
and-sixty and you wouldn’t be
far out.”
“A hundred-and-sixty! ” Dis-
belief showed in every line of his
face. “You’re being very
optimistic, aren’t you?”
“No,” I assured him. “I’ve
counted close on eighty dead
around all the watering-places.
Double that for the ones scat-
tered around in the bush and
you’ll find I’m not very far out.
It certainly won’t be over that
number.”
He picked up his pencil, wrote
160 on his blotter, enclosed it
with a circle and said, “Well,
well! That is good news. Do
you know that some places lost
nearly half their breeders? I
was afraid Yakaparni would
have been about the same.”
“We were lightly stocked,” I
pointed out. “Don t forget we
sold those cows as well as the
steers earlier in the year. That
helped a"lot.”
“Yes, of course. Well, that’s
splendid news. Much better than
I expected. If we get a good wet
season Carson shouldn’t have
any worries next year.”
“There’s the pear, Mr.
Forster,” I said. “I don’t think
we’ll ever make an impression
on the damned stuff. We can’t
get the men, and even if we could
it would cost a fortune to tackle
it seriously. Carson is starting
to dig his toes in over it now. He
swears he won’t spend any more
money on it.”
“Forget about it, Bob.” He
leaned back in his chair, folded
both hands over his stomach and
smiled at me in a mysterious,
rather complacent manner.
“What would you say if I told
you that in two or three years,
without Carson spending a penny
on it, you wouldn’t be able to
find a single prickly-pear plant
on Yakaparni?
“You’d say I’d gone off my
nut, wouldn’t you? Well, you’d
be wrong. I’m not supposed to
tell you this yet, but the Govern-
ment Experimental Station is
releasing a grub called cacto-
blastis. He’s the bloke that’s
going to solve the pear-problem
in Queehsland. Once he’s
released, no more pear-conditions
will be enforced.”
I found it hard to believe until
he went on to explain all about
the importation of this cacto-
blastis, the grub that was to end-
up by virtually saving the
Queensland cattle-industry. The
scientists knew he would destroy
the pear ; what they had to prove
before turning him loose was
that he would not go on to
destroy something else once the
pear was cleaned-up.
“They’re satisfied now,”
Forster assured me. “You can
tell Carson when you get back.
When are you going back, by
the way?”
“Not for a few weeks,” I
answered. “I’m off for a beach
holiday.”
“Huh! Staying up half the
night drinking. Tearing the place
apart. I know the sort of things
you young bushwhackers get up
to when a few of you get
together.” He sighed and rubbed
his stomach tenderly. “I wish
I was twenty years younger, but
that sort of thing’s no good to me
now. A couple of beers and my
ulcer starts to give me hell.” He
stood up and extended his hand.
“Well, have a good time, Bob.
And drop in and see me any time
you’re in town.”
T DID have a good time, firstly
A because I teamed-up with a
party of bushwhackers, and
secondly because I met Carla.
I ran into her in the surf during
my first morning dip.
I ran into her with consider-
able force, propelled by a
dumper that crashed me down
on lop of her. We came up in a
spluttering, swirling tangle of
arms and legs, and my first
watery impression was of an
attractive, nicely tanned girl in
a very neat swimsuit.
I started to apologise, and
then, as recognition came, said,
“Well, stiffen the crows!”
“The things in this sea! ” Her
eyebrows went up in that faintly
(Continued on next page)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., '
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME . .
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2/13/6 Foreign £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
mocking way she had. “Yester-
day it was bluebottles and sea-
lice, and today it’s you.”
We went out and lay on the
sand. She was staying at the
Pacific, she told me. I was stay-
ing at the Grand. After a while
we went back into the surf, and
I noticed that, as well as looking
attractive in swimming-togs, she
was quite a good surfer. That
night we danced together, and
the following day, after a certain
amount of wangling and con-
siderable expense, I transferred
to the Pacific.
“Guess who’s just arrived,”
Carla said, as we sat down to
dinner that night. And, as I
shook my head, “The Stewart
boys.”
My face must have lit up,
because she added, “And let me
warn you, Bob Anders, if you
three get together and start
spending all day and hhlf the
night in the bar I’ll wipe you.”
“There’s still the other half of
the night,” I reminded her.
“Unless you behave yourself,”
she warned, softening the threat
with a smile, “there’ll be no
other half.”
Except for one noisy reunion,
we behaved ourselves. We fell
ffito a daily routine —an early-
morning swim, a short rum-and-
milk session while the girls
dressed, and then breakfast.
After breakfast we all surfed,
sunbaked and drank beer in the
Pacific lounge. After lunch we
“carpetsnaked” —slept off the
results of beer and food until the
afternoon-tea bell reminded us
it was time to go through the
whole routine again.
After dinner we drank beer
and danced. Sometimes we all
went off for a moonlight swim,
carrying water-melons and a
carving-knife borrowed from the
hotel kitchen.
I returned from that holiday
feeling in need of a rest; a little
thankful also that it was over.
I was not sure what my feelings
towards Carla were. There had
been times when I felt that if I
had been in a position to offer
her a home and security I might
have asked her to marry me.
There were others when I told
her she’d better hunt around for
some other man because I
wouldn’t be seeing any more of
her once I got back to
Yakaparni.
“What makes you thihk I’ll
want to see you?” she had asked
once.
T GOT off the night train in
Dilargo and found myself a
room at Curly Ryan’s. It
reminded me of my first arrival,
only this time I was familiar with
the layout, and there was no dog
waiting to trip me up. The
broken step that was there then
still had not been repaired.
After breakfast next morning
I rang Carson and went off to
look for my mustering-team.
Curly promised to get word to
young Tommy for me. The kid
mightn’t get the message for a
couple of days, he said, but he’d
turn-up all right.
Carson arrived shortly after
ten-o’clock. He was in one of
his most irritable moods, and I
had to drag information out of
him bit by bit.
Nothing had gone wrong dur-
ing my absence, he admitted.
Rain? Yes, they had had two
more good storms, as well as
some good steady grass-rain.
Mrs. Carson and Julie were well.
The dogs were all right, eating
their blasted heads off. Too
damned fat; Julie was always
feeding them.
“The gastric-ulcer been play-
ing up?” I asked.
No more than usual, I was
told curtly. People who had
never suffered from gastric-
ulcers didn’t seem to realise they
never let up. I gave up guessing.
And then at last it came out.
“The missus has rented a
house at the blasted seaside for
a month,” he told me indignantly.
“What the bloody hell do / want
to go to the seaside for? How
can I leave the place with the
mustering just about to start?”
He put up a great case for the
defence, pointing out that we
would be out in camp most of
the time, and that old Dan the
rousie would probably burn the
place down. He said there would
be no one to do the bookkeeping,
keep an account of the weather
and pay the stockmen if they
wanted money. I pointed out
that I could easily do all that,
and he countered by saying
petulantly that he didn’t want to
go to the bloody seaside.
“Goddammit, B o b,” he
snapped, “you’re as bad as me
blasted women!”
Mrs. Carson was quietly
pleased to see me, and anxious
to know whether I had enjoyed
myself.
Julie, too, greeted me warmly.
She told me she had fed and
exercised the dogs regularly, but
was of the opinion that they
badly needed work. She also
showed a lively interest in my
doings—-where I had been stay-
ing, who was down there, and
how we had put in the time. I
told her as much as I thought
advisable.
“I believe Carla Greer was
down there,” she remarked.
“Did you see anything of her?”
“Quite a lot.” I could not
resist taking a rise out of her,
because she so obviously disliked
Carla. “I saw her in bathing-
togs.”
She put her nose in the air
and walked off.
YX7E all discussed pllns for the
* * family’s holiday that even-
ing, Carson putting up a great
show of fighting to the last ditch.
It looked as though he had run
out of excuses when he got a
last-minute inspiration.
“I can’t go,” he announced
triumphantly. “There’s the
pear! Now that there’s plenty
of water about we’ll have to put
men on and get it cleared. Bob
can’t do the mustering and look
after the pear-poisoners, too. I’ll
have to stay home.”
His reactions when I gave him
his bank-manager’s news about
the cactoblastis were mixed —
immensely relieved to know he
would no longer have to spend
money on pear-eradication;
peeved that his one remaining
excuse had collapsed. He pre-
tended to scoff at the idea of
grubs destroying those vast areas
of pear, and said he would
believe it when he saw it.
“Anyhow,” he said, as he
strode over to the waterbag,
“that’s got nothing to do with
the case. Nobody’s going to
force me to go to the seaside.
I’ll make up me own mind on
that matter, and you can all
talk till you’re black in the face.”
He helped himself to a long
drinkand walked into his
office.
Ten-minutes later he came out
again, and said mildly, “Bob, if
you can spare a few minutes
you’d better come in here and
I’ll show you how to write-up
this diary. I’d like you to keep a
record of the weather while we're
away.”
1 saw the family off at Dilargo
railway-station. Their depar-
ture had meant two trips for
me, one with Carrie, the half-
caste maid, and the luggage, and
the other with the family.
“Have a good time,” I said to
Carson. “And don’t worry
about the property. I’ll send
for you if 1 need you.”
“A good time!” he snorted.
“How the hell could I have a
good time at the blasted beach?”
■CROM boundary to boundary
Yakaparni looked a picture.
Green grass everywhere came
up to the horses’ knees, the trees
had covered themselves in new
leaves, and clear water trickled
along every creek-bed.
The cattle had filled-out, and
their coats were now sleek and
glossy. Young calves, instead
of nudging hopelessly at sagging
empty udders, now scampered
playfully away as we
approached.
The transformation from
black desolation to this profu-
sion of lush greenery was so
amazing that there were times
during the muster when we
reined-in and wondered whether
we were riding through the
same country.
Without telling Carson, I had
decided to make this a bang-
tail muster —a “stocktaking,”
with the brush cut from the tail
of every beast before it passed
down the dip-crush to be dipped
and tallied.
Julie had said the dogs needed
work. Well, they got it. We
worked them throughout the
muster, and they were in con-
stant demand in the yards.
Usually they worked on the dip-
crush with Wonga, trotting up
and down outside the rails,
snapping at heels whenever a
cow showed reluctance to keep
moving. And since Wonga had
a way with dogs, his job at the
yards gradually became a
sinecure.
Nevertheless, Wonga worked
more consistently than any of
us during the Carsons* absence.
He did all the cooking, and he
fed us well without in any way
letting his cooking interfere
with his ordinary work, except
when he had a damper to bake
and I would send him on ahead,
while we drove the day’s mob
to the yard.
With the addition of the dogs
and Tommy to the mustering-
team, yarding-up was becoming
a very tame affair. No longer
did the cattle mill and balk at
the entrance to the yards, no
longer were we forced to give
ground as man after man
galloped after breakaway cows.
If a beast broke, the dogs chased
it, and with them snapping at
its heels it came back faster
than it went.
“A man can’t get no' more
fun,” Mick complained. “When
are we goin’ to ’ave another go
at the scrubbers?”
We picked-up odd scrubbers
every day when we moved camp
to the Brigalow Yards, and
Mick got his share of fun.
Young Tommy was fast turn-
ing into a very useful horse-
man, and though he still had to
try conclusions with even the
mildest of buckjumpers we
taught him to throw a beast.
His first attempt was made
on a breakaway mickey. The
dogs could easily have brought
it back, but, as Mick said, the
kid had to learn. In the next few
minutes Tommy learned a lot.
He learned that indecision or
the slightest hesitation can be
disastrous to the man trying to
throw a beast. And he learned
the hard way. He spurred his
horse close to the galloping
mickey, but delayed his grab for
’ the tail until its owner tired of
running and swung round in a
charge.
Mick, who had followed
closely as tutor, yelled, “Get off
and grab ’im, quick.”
The mickey, too winded to
gallop any more, was then
trotting away, and Tommy ran
after him on foot. But once
again he hesitated at the psycho-
logical moment, and the mickey
wheeled smartly to meet him
face to face. It was a lusty young
bull with horns about four
inches long, and though it was
not a very big animal, Tommy
was not a very big lad.
“Run for the nearest tree!”
Mick advised, laughing until he
could scarcely talk.
Tommy ran, but the mickey
was faster. In a wild, head-
down charge it caught him a
wallop in the seat of his pants
that sent him sprawling just as
Mick leaped off and pulled it
down. Helpless with laughter,
Mick lay across the mickey’s
rump while Tommy scrambled
to his feet and felt his own
rump tenderly.
“Jee,” Mick roared, burying
his face in the mickey’s flank to
wipe away the tears of laughter,
“that was funny! Funniest
thing I’ve seen for years.”
“You should have stepped in
earlier,” I told him. “The kid
might have been seriously
hurt.”
“Aw, he’s gotta learn, boss,”
Mick reasoned. “If we can’t
learn ’im to toss mickeys we’ll
learn ’im to climb trees.”
TN spite of Mick’s complaints
■*- about no more fun, we all
enjoyed that muster. Our
musical-evenings got going
again, and we yarned lazily or
listened to Wonga lying atroci-
ously as we sat around the
campfire each night.
For me the only dull times
were the weekends, when the
boys rode in to Dilargo. The
big old house was silent and
lonely. I missed the quiet
charm that Mrs. Carson always
brought to the dining-table, and
I missed Carson’s eruptive out-
bursts.
I missed young Julie, too, I
found. Although I looked on
her as a spoiled brat, and our
conversations invariably ended
in rows, we had a lot in com-
mon. We both loved horses,
dogs and cattle, and she was as
interested in the outside work
on Yakaparni as I was.
But with the family away
there was only old Dan to talk
to; we got on well enough
together, but the old chap was
definitely eccentric.
“The phone rang a couple of
times yesterdee,” he informed
me as I was settling down to
read the papers on my third
solitary Saturday.
I grunted, “Huh. Who was
it?”
“I dunno.” He glared at me
indignantly. “I don’t answer
no phones, mister. When you’re
out in camp the ’ouse is shut,
and as fur‘as I’m concerned it
stays shut. I sweep the
verandas, but y’ don’t catch me
goin’ no further than that,
exceptin’ the kitchen. And I
wouldn’t go inter that office of
'is, not for quids. I git blamed
for enough as it is. As fur as
I’m concerned the phone can
ring its bloody ’ead orf.”
An hour or so later it rang
again, and I went into the office
and answered it.
Carla’s voice said, “Enjoying
your weekend?”
“My throat’s parched from
talking,” I answered, brighten-
ing-up immediately. “Every
time I say something I have to
answer myself.”
“There’s quite a good picture
on tonight. Why not come in
and have dinner with us? Or
are you too broke to take a girl
to the pictures?”
“Broke!” I scoffed. “At the
moment I’ve got Carson’s whole
bank-account behind me. I
could even blow you to an ice-
cream during interval.” I heard
her chuckle and added, “The
only trouble is I’m a bit scared
of driving back here in the
dark.”
“You poor thing!” She made
some sympathetic noises. “In
that case it might be a good idea
if you brought your pyjamas.”
“Carla,” I said, “in less than
one hour you’ll see a cloud of
dust appearing over your
horizon.”
CHAPTER XXV
BECAUSE of the drought the
branding was light, but when
the family returned from six
weeks at the seaside I was able to
give Carson a very satisfactory
accounting of the stock. I also
felt very proud to be able to tell
him that, with the exception of
the scrubbers, every beast was in
its proper paddock.
“And one of these days,” I
assured him, “I’ll have those
scrubbers cleaned-up.”
Strangely, he seemed uninter-
ested. He wanted to tell me
about his holiday, and once he
got really started on the subject
there was no stopping him.
He had become friendly with
a fisherman, a man of about his
own age who fished for a living
and grew vegetables for a hobby.
The soil down there could be
made to grow anything, anything
at all. And water! Put a hole
down twelve feet and you could
get stacks of it. Good water, too.
Not a bit of salt in it.
But it was on the subject of
fishing that Carson really held
forth. I had to listen to detailed
descriptions of every type of fish,
the size of the various hauls, and
minute-by-minute accounts of
the ones that got away.
Almost overnight he had
become an ardent fisherman, a
man with an all-absorbing
hobby. He described the house
they had rented and explained
how, for a very small cost, it
could be converted into the ideal
holiday home.
“You know, Bob,” he said, “if
things turn out all right this year
I might even think of buying it.
A man could always be sure of
having a place to go to for his
holidays then.”
“However did you manage
it?” I asked Mrs. Carson when
her husband had gone off to
read my rather sketchy weather-
reports. „
“It was quite simple, really,
she laughed. “Once he became
friendly with this old fisherman
and went out for his first fishing-
trip he was happy. He made a
frightful fuss about the corned-
beef for a day or two, so I sent
him along to complain to the
butcher. The butcher turned out
to be an old cattleman who liked
his own beef well pickled. He
dug a special piece out of the
bottom of the brine-cask and


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated In New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman. DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT, Deputy Chairman.
ROBERT J. VICARS, ERNEST W. STREET, GREGORY B. KATEB,
ALEXANDER H. DICKINS.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNE.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1956.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting
to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 21st August, 1956, at noon precisely.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Authorised. £20,000,000
in 800,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued—4Bo,ooo shares of £25 each £12,000,000
Less: Reserve Capital of £l2/10/- per share 6,000,000
Paid up 6,000,000
Reserve Fund (wholly used in the business of the Bank) 6,500,000
£12,500,000
Final Dividend proposed 270,000
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 235,091
Total Shareholders’ Funds 13,005,091
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including provisions for
contingencies 188,723,837
Deposit of Subsidiary Company—C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited 1,000,000
Notes in Circulation 13,490
Balances due to other Banks 745,517
£203,487,935
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £13,471,359
Money at Short Call in London 1,156,250
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia .. 30,000,000
Cheques and Bills of other Banks and Balances with and
due from other Banks 6,615,022
Treasury Bills—Australian Governments 4,000,000
Treasury Bills —British Government 625,000
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills)—at or below
market value (including £4,000 lodged with Public
Authorities)
Australian Government Securities 24,980,160
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 11,926,318
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provisions for debts considered bad or doubtful debts) 104,622,764
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites —at cost, less amounts written off 2,226,475
Shares in C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited 1,000,000
All other Assets 2,864,587
R. J. VICARS I ,
G. B. KATER [ Directors.
£203,487,935
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and annexed Profit and Loss Account and compared
them with the books at the Head Office and with the Returns from the Branches. In our
opinion the Bank has kept proper books of account so far as appears from our examination
of those books. We have not visited the Branches of the Bank, but proper returns adequate
for the purpose of our audit have geen received therefrom.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required. In our opinion the
said Accounts are properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the
Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us,
and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is required
to keep by the New South Wales Companies Act 1936 or by its Articles have been properly kept.
H. W. MACKISACK )
Sydney, 19th July, 1956. F. B. OLIVER J '
Auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1955, at
the rate of 9 per cent, per annum, paid on 20th January, 1956 .. £270,000
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account 50,000
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June, 1956, at the rate of
9 per cent, per annum £270,000
„ Amount carried forward 235,091
505,091
£825.091
V. - " "
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1955 £176,827
„ Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1956, after payment of all
expenses of management (including Directors’ Fees, £7,000) and
provision for taxes and for rebate on current bills and accrued
interest on fixed deposits, and for bad and doubtful debts and
other contingencies 648 264
The Subsidiary Company—C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited—had not
commenced operations on 30th June, 1956, and had not made
profits or losses.
R. J. VICARS }
G. B. KATER £
Directors.
£825,091
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
1956
June 30
RESERVE FUND
To Balance (wholly used in the business of the Bank)
carried forward
1955
June 30 By Balance brought forward from 30th June, 1955
1956
June 30 „ Transfer from Currencies Adjustment Account
£6,500,000
£6,500,000
£5,000,000
1,500,000
£6.500,000
told Joseph to come and see him
whenever he wanted more. We
had a lovely holiday, didn’t we,
Julie?”
“Heavenly,” Julie sighed.
She seemed somehow to have
changed, though I could not
have explained in what way. Per-
haps it was that she was more
sophisticated, or perhaps she was
simply wearing a new frock. I’m
afraid I’m not particularly
observant in those matters. I
even failed to notice her new
riding-attire at breakfast next
morning, and not until we went
out to the saddle-rail and Wonga
looked at her in his worried way
and said, “Cripes, Julie, that’ll
make the ’orses sit up,” did I
notice the well-cut jodhpurs, the
neat shirt and the smart new
felt-hat.
We mustered the bullocks for
dipping that day, and though
Julie came with us I saw very
little of her. She attached her-
self to Tommy, and afterwards
he said in his eager way, “Gee,
she’s nice, isn’t she, boss? And
can’t she ride!”
“You were supposed to be
mustering bullocks,” I reminded
him, “not admiring girls.”
This was a good year for
Yakaparni. Rain fell frequently,
and the creeks never stopped
running. The cattle grew sleek
and fat, and in the scrubs the
cactoblastis was already making
an impression on the pear.
During the winter we did
yard-repairs and built a dividing-
fence across the weaner-paddock,
so that the steers could be kept
apart from the heifers. It would
have been cheaper to pay the
stockmen off and get a con-
tractor to do the fencing, but I
was anxious to keep my good
mustering-team together. They
did not like the day-after-day
monotony of the work, though
they were glad to be earning
wages.
“Still,” Wonga remarked
sadly, “a week on the bar and
shovel and a man’s got such a
hell of a thirst ’e’s broke again
by Sunday night.”
Any excuse did Wonga.
HTHE horses came in from their
winter spell bucking and
kicking up their heels as we ran
them up to the yards. Their
coats were glossy, and they were
fat, and bursting with high
spirits.
“Won’t we ’ave some fun
tomorrer! ” Mick exclaimed glee-
fully. “They’ll all buck.”
The fun was mainly Mick’s,
but the horses certainly did buck.
We carried our saddles over to
the yard and, with the exception
of Tommy, each of us caught
the worst horse in his string.
Tommy chose a placid old bay
mare that had never been known
to buck, and saddled her out-
side the yard.
It was a morning to remember,
a cloudless spring morning with
a chill still lingering in. the air.
Across the horse-paddock the
early-morning sun highlighted
the various shades of green in
the '*ew-laden grass. Dew cov-
ered the rails of the horseyard
and sparkled on the glossy green
leaves of the kurrajongs sur-
rounding it. Along the creek
white wisps of mist were rising
like smoke through the gumtrees
and from the top of one came
the cackling laughter of a pair
of kookaburras.
“You wouldn’t think it was so
funny if y’ had to ride this ’orse,”
Wonga informed the distant
birds. He eased his heavy saddle
gently on to the back of a restive
brown colt. “I’ve got a feelin’
this joker’s goin’ to pelt me this
mornin’.”
Because he was riding a
wicked-looking bay horse that
the former breaker, Black
Albert, had refused to accept in
his team we gave Mick the honor
of first ride. Unlike Black
Albert, he wasted no time in
flash theatricals.
He hummed or sang cheer-
fully in his raucous, off-key voice
as he saddled-up. Another man
would have then led the horse
to the middle of the yard, but
Mick didn’t even bother to do
that. Any place did him. He
took a short grip on the near-
side rein, hauled the bay’s head
around towards him until its nose
was almost touching its shoulder
and eased himself into the saddle
with a gliding, effortless motion.
He sang, without tune or
apparent reason.
The bay reared high above the
rails and came down bucking. It
grunted, squealed and bucked
viciously, but it could not shift
Mick from the saddle or wipe
the delighted grin from his face.
He was a sloppy, untidy rider.
His spurs flopped, unused, low
over his heels ; he shifted his feet
constantly, and his jerking body
seemed out of rhythm with the
movements of his mount. Yet
in a straight-out contest with
any horse he was superbly con-
fident and unbeatable.
“He’s right,” he announced, as
the bay steadied down. “Let ’im
out.”
Tommy swung the gate open,
and Mick moved out to leave the
arena clear for Duffy.
YyITH Duffy one had the
impression that he settled
himself in the saddle as lightly as
a piece of thistledown. Unlike
Mick, who had shaken his reins
loose the moment he was up, he
held his filly together and patted
her lovingly on the neck.
“There, there,” he soothed.
“That’s the girl.”
The soothing did not have the
desired effect. The filly got in a
few good bucks before Duffy
managed to steady her down. He
rode her beautifully, sitting in
the saddle as though glued there,
but not once did he give her her
head. ,
“Better give her a fair go,
Duffy,” I shouted. “She’s only
saving it up.”
“She’s right, boss,” he assured
me. “She won’t buck no more.”
He patted her neck again, and
as he moved her gently out to
make way for Wonga, asked,
“Will y’, girlie?”
Wonga mounted the high-
spirited brown colt of his own
breaking. He lectured it in a
quietly impartial tone, mainly
talking a lot of inconsequential
nonsense. He rode it once
around the yard at a walk, once
at a trot and once at a canter.
“Let ’im out, Tommy,” he
called.
None of us understood how he
did it. The colt wanted to buck ;
bucking was in the air that
morning, as Steve’s mount
proved by a spectacular exhibi-
tion that shook him loose and
almost unseated him. Mick
declared that the horse actually
threw him once and caught him
again coming down.
My turn came. Through sheer
bravado I had saddled another
of Black Albert’s rejects, and as
I passed the reins over his neck
Julie, who had the grandstand
seat on the top rail, said in a very
fair imitation of Wonga’s tone,
“I’ve got a feelin’ that ’orse is
gonna pelt y’ this mornin’.”
“I’ll pelt you off that rail if
you don’t mind your own busi-
ness,” I told her.
I was feeling nervous, and a
fluttering in my ’stomach was
reminding me that I had been
unable to swallow a proper
breakfast. It was, I felt, highly
probably that the horse would
pelt me.
As usual, the feeling of
nervousness vanished with the
first buck. I rode the horse, if
not with ease, at least with a fair
show of competence, before call-
ing to Tommy to let him out.
HTAKING it all round, the
-*■ morning had provided quite
an entertaining display of buck-
jumping, and by all the rules it
should have ended there.
Unfortunately Duffy’s filly
cared nothing for rules. Possibly
she felt she had been cheated out
of doing her best in the yard, and
was feeling a little jealous of her
more acrobatic mates. For no
•other reason that we could see
she suddenly cut loose with a
couple of vicious bucks and
deposited the astonished Duffy
neatly on the ground.
With her head tucked between
her forelegs she collided with my
horse, who entered into the spirit
of the game with a swinging
buck that landed me beside
Duffy.
Bucking certainly was in the
air that morning. 1 scrambled to
my feet in time to see two more
bucking horses collide and the
next moment Steve and Wonga
joined the ground-crew. It was
all so sudden and totally
unexpected that each one of us
was caught unprepared.
“Gawd stone the bloody
crows!” Mick gasped, com-
pletely helpless with laughter.
“Ah, Gawd stone the bloody
crows! ”
A burst of laughter more
cackling and inane than the
earlier outburst of the kooka-
burras followed, as Mick buried
his face in his horse’s mane. In
that position he was an easy
victim. His horse simply bucked
out from under him and the law
of gravity took over.
“Get after them!” I yelled to
Tommy.
Completely spellbound,
Tommy was staring at the five
riderless horses galloping to join
their mates at the far side of the
horse-paddock. He touched the
old bay mare lightly with the
spurs and she broke into a
canter. She cantered for about
twenty yards before deciding
that even at her age she might
as well be in the fashion. Down
went her head in a series of fly-
ing pigroots, and although
Tommy stuck the first three the
fourth one sent him sprawling
through the air.
Experience had taught the rest
of us to land lightly, but Tommy
came down with a sickening
thud, flat on his belly. He
landed, as Wonga said, like a bag
of wet cowdung.
“What the bloody hell’s going
on?”
The indignant roar came from
Carson, who had backed the tilly
out and was in the act of filling
the radiator. “What the blazes
is this supposed to be? A cattle-
station or a circus?”
He flung the billy of water
aside, swung the starting-handle
and leaped into the driver’s seat.
“Call yourselves horsemen!”
He let the clutch in and
headed the tilly for the distant
horses.
“Pack of useless old women
that couldn’t”
The rest of his words were lost
as the tilly tore recklessly across
the horse-paddock.
“He’ll rip the guts out of it on
a stump,” Wonga predicted.
“Or crash into a log and put
his head through the wind-
screen,” I added.
Julie, who had climbed down
from the rail and joined us said,
“He’ll do nothing of the sort.
He knows every log and stump
in the paddock.”
{Continued, on page 34)


COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
willprovide you with a
GUARANTEED
INVESTMENT INCOME
without risk of
reduction or cessation
For investors to whom variation
in anticipated return or the
remotest possibility of cessation
of income from a selected
security would be unwelcome,
income - guaranteed Common-
monwealth Loan Bonds are the
best possible choice.
The Commonwealth and its
entire resources stand behind
the unqualified guarantee to
every Commonwealth Loan in-
vestor that interest will be paid
to him regularly at a fixed,
unvarying rate. A similar
guarantee assures return of the
amount invested, at full face
value, on maturity of the Loan
—in 1957, 1963 or 1976,
according to the maturity date
chosen when making the sub-
scription. So Commonwealth
Loans offer the highest possible
degree of security.
Prudent investors today care-
fully scrutinise net yields
available after taxation. Con-
sideration should therefore be
given to the special Income Tax
rebate of 2/- in the £1 of
Commonwealth Loan interest
included in taxable income,
which substantially increases
this net return. (Of course, the
rebate cannot exceed the
amount of tax otherwise
payable.)
YOUR SAVINGS CAM HELP TO
FINANCE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Money invested in Common-
wealth Loans is put to work
on projects designed to aid
development of industry and
agriculture, stimulate Australia’s
export trade and improve
efficiency of community ser-
vices. As citizens, investors
will share in these very real
benefits.
NEW TERMS OF ISSUE-ONE, 7, or 20 YEARS
Investors may choose Bonds or Inscribed Stock as follows:
1. 0 N E - Y E A R
SECURITIES BEAR-
ING INTEREST AT
3 3 /i%
PER ANNUM
ISSUED AT £99/15/-
PER CENT. AND
MATURING ON
AUGUST 15,
1957
2. 7-YEAR SECURI-
TIES BEARING
INTEREST AT
50 1 PER
/0 ANNUM
ISSUED AT £99/15/-
PER CENT. AND
MATURING ON
APRIL 15,
1963
3. 20-YEAR SECURI-
TIES BEARING
INTEREST AT
50/ PER
70 ANNUM
ISSUED AT PAR AND
MATURING ON
APRIL 15,
1976
Minimum Subscription is £lO for Applications may be lodged with
the 7-year and 20-year terms and any bank, savings bank or
£lOO for the one-year securities. stockbroker.
For
Maximum Return
with
100% Security
INVEST IN THE
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITY LOAN
NOW OPEN
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury.
265L24.27E
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Jonah, by Louis
Stone.—637l.
To bruy The Double Event, by Nat
Gould; Anthology of Australian
Eucalypts, by Grimwade; Experiences
of a colonist 40 years ago, by G.
Hamilton (Adelaide, 1879) ; Wonders
of the Past, by E. J. Hammerton;
Observations on N.S.W. and Van
Diemen’s Land, by J. Henderson
(Calcutta, 1832); and Termites
( Isoptera ) of the Australian region, by
G. F. Hill (published by the
C.5.1.R.0., Melbourne, 1942). —6372.
io buy In fhe Early Days, a history
of pioneering Queensland, by J. J.
Knight (Brisbane, 1895). —6373.
To buy “Current Affairs Bulletin”
Vol. 7 No. 8 to end Vol. 14.—6374.
To buy original editions of On Our
Selection, Our New Selection and Me
and the Son, by Arthur H. Davis
(“Steele Rudd”).—637s.
Information Sought
Are there many medals still
unclaimed from the last World War ?
What is the procedure for claiming
these?
The Minister for the Army recently
announced that, of 790,000 Aus-
tralian servicemen to whom 2,370,000
campaign-medals and -stars had been
awarded during the last World War
and the Korean campaign, 471,829
men had not claimed their awards.
He said the Army was anxious that
the men receive the awards they
had earned, but that this was not
possible without the co-operation of
the men themselves, some of whom
were entitled to wear up to seven
medals and stars. The medals are the
Defence, War, Australian Service,
Korean, and United Nations Service
in Korea, the stars the 1939-45, the
Africa (with or without clasps), Pacific
and Burma. Applicants should send
their full name and address and
former Army number to the Army
Medal Section, Albert Park Barracks,
Melbourne. The medals and stars
are then sent to applicants by
registered post as soon as service
details are checked and the medals
engraved.
* * . * *
Information on Australian sea-
author Alan Villiers?
Born Sept. 23, 1903, he was
educated at Essendon High School,
Melbourne, and went to sea in sail in
1919. In 1923-24 he was whaling in
the Antarctic with the Norwegian
Carl Anton Larsen’s first Ross Sea
expedition. He spent the next three
years in journalism, mainly with
Hobart “Mercury,” then sailed with
Captain De Cloux in the four-masted
barque Parma, which he and De
Cloux jointly owned. In 1934 he
bought the Danish schoolship Georg
Stage, renamed her. Joseph Conrad
and in her sailed 58,000 miles round
the world. In World War 11, in which,
in the Royal Navy, he rose to Com-
mander, he won the D.S.C. while
commanding a squadron of landing-
craft in Normandy; he also served in
the invasion of Italy and in opera-
tions against the Japanese. His
numerous books include Whaling in
the Frozen South, Falmouth for
Orders, The Sea in Ships, Grain Race,
Voyage of the Parma, The Last of the
Windships, Cruise of the Conrad,
Sons of Sinbad, The Set of the Sails,
The Way of a Ship. Now living m
Oxford (Eng.), he recently navigated,
in a race from Torbay (Devonshire) to
Lisbon, the Portuguese schooner-
yacht Bellatrix, and next year is to
skipper the new Mayflower on a
re-staging of the historic journey to
the U.S.
.* * * *
Some information on the lately
completed Qa u y railway - link
(< Sydney ) ? .
The Circular Quay railway is the
last arc of the rail-systena which
encircles Sydney. This rail-system
was authorised by N.S.W. Parliament
in 1915, the eastern (Central-St.
James) section being opened in 1926
and the western (Central-Wynyard) in
1932. The Quay section was begun
in Aug., 1936, halted for a while in
1937, was restarted, and in 1941 was
closed-down by the war. Work was
resumed again in 1945, proceeded
without interruption for six years, and
then, through lack of funds, was
closed-down for a couple of years.
Reopened in July, 1953, the line was
to have been finished by Dec., 1955,
in time for the State elections that
month. When the elections were
postponed, so was the official open-
ing, which took place as a result on
Jan. 20 this year. Cost of the rail-
section from Wynyard across the
Quay to St. James was £4 million;
actual working-time was 13 years 7
months.
* * * *
(1) Brief particulars of the mystery-
ships of World War l ? (2) Any books
on them '/
(1) Q-ships, also called mystery-
ships or hush-hush ships, were used
as part of the plan to counter the
U-boat menace. Devised by Sir
Eustace D’Eyncourt, Director of
Naval Construction, they were
“decoy” ships—ships fitted-out as
defenceless merchant-vessels but in
reality with concealed armament. The
story of their work is one of gallantry,
discipline and endurance. Most of the
ship’s crew, when a sub. attacked,
would leave the ship, apparently in
panic; the gun-layers, who remained
on board —even sometimes with their
ship ablaze —would wait till the
enemy came close before opening fire.
The earliest Q-ships were launched in
1915, and early in 1917 they were
greatly augmented, and a special
Admiralty department was created for
them. They were successful, and
registered many “kills”; but U-boat
commanders became more wary and
suspicious, and towards the end of
1917, except for the Mediterranean,
where some of the fleet were trans-
ferred, their use was discontinued.
Several Q-ship commanders won the
V.C., including a New Zealander,
Lieut. W. E. Sanders, of H.M.S. Prize,
for his action in crippling a submarine
(April 30, 1917). (2) Q Ships and
Their Story, by Kebb Chatterton ; My
Mystery Ships, by Gordon Campbell,
V.C.; Q Ship Adventures, by H.
Austen.
Brief Answers
F. Townsend: Your address, please.
. ...K.H.: Authorities are hazy on
such matters, but, as the constitution
of the club does not cover the con-
tingency, the executive would be
correct in refusing to act and in
accepting the motion as a recom-
mendation only J.S.: Sir Donald
Bradman made a “duck” in his last
Test-innings, in the fifth 1948 Test at
The Oval. He went to the crease just
before six-o’clock on the first day,
and was given a tremendous ovation
by" players and crowd. “Evidently
deeply touched by the enthusiastic
reception,” says Wisden, “Bradman
survived one ball, but, playing forward
to the next, was clean-bowled by a
sharply turning break-back —possibly
a googly.” The bowler was leg-
spinner Hollies... .J.X.T,: Unable to
trace any such altruistic activity by the
people you name... .T.N. and K.C.:
For accounts of the life and writings
of Marcus Clarke and “Rolf Bolder-
wood,” see Australian Writers, by
Desmond Byrne, or Australian
Literature, by Morris and Macartney,
obtainable either at Sydney Public
Library or Sydney Municipal Library.
Both libraries also have other refer-
ence-works on these authors... .5.8.:
(1) Would not have the space to
print as much information as would
be needed for your purpose. See
Morris and Macartney’s Australian
Literature, H. M. Green’s An Outline
of Australian Literature and Poetical
Works of Henry Lawson (Angus and
Robertson, 1925). (2) Henry Lawson
was born in 1867 at Grenfell
(N.S.W.), and lived as a
boy on a selection at Pipeclay, now
Eurunderee (N.S.W.). (He was not
born at Pipeclay.) G.L.: These
population-figures are all as at the
June 30, 1954, census —Australia,
8,986,530; N.S.W., 3,423,529 (Sydney,
1,863,161); Victoria, 2,452,341 (Mel-
bourne, 1,524,111); Q., 1,318,259
(Brisbane, 502,320); S.A., 797,094
(Adelaide, 483,508); W.A., 639,771
(Perth, 348,647); Tasmania, 308,752
(Hobart, 95,206); N.T., 16,469
(Darwin, 8071); A.C.T., 30,315
(Canberra, 28,277) S.McK.: Your
correction of the date of King John’s
accession has been referred to the
advertiser A.G.W.: (1) The
N.S.W. Moratorium Act was first
passed in Dec., 1930, and revised
under the Moratorium Act, 1932. (2)
N.S.W. was the only State to intro-
duce such a measure R.W.:
“Brigalow” is due to be published in
book-form by Angus and Robertson
later this year T.G.: Write Mel-
bourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works, 110 Spencer-street, Melbourne.
~..D.H.: Your query on Russian-
comfrey sent on to J. F. Leacock,
Glenfield Farm, Casula (N.S.W.).
. ...J.McA.: According to figures
given last month by the Federal
Minister for Labor, Mr. Holt, the
number of vacant jobs registered with
the Commonwealth Employment
Service was 32,473 on June 29. People
receiving unemployment-relief on the
same date totalled 7003, a rise of 992
in June E.F.: Minor electrical
troubles can often be traced to poor
earth-connections; most likely the
cause of the flickering of your lights.
....K.W.: It is advisable never to
store tyres in the same room (or
even an adjoining room) as is kept
petrol or other lubricant. Vapors
from petrol, etc., are absorbed by
rubber, and rot it R.J.H.: (1)
Yes, of course it has. The slogan
reflects The Bulletin’s faith in the
destiny of Australia as a white man’s
country. (2) The quotation-marks
used indicate the belief that the Aus-
tralian Labor Party has departed from
its first principles, and, with all the
objectives of its founders now
achieved, it is no longer a party
genuinely representative of, and fight-
ing for the real interests of, the Aus-
tralian working-man M. J.: The
Gift Duty Assessment Act 1941-1947
and the Gift Duty Act 1941-1947
impose gift-duty on all gifts made
after Oct. 29, 1941. (A “gift” has
been defined as any disposal of
property which is made other than
by will, without adequate considera-
tion in money or money’s worth.)
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
F.0.G.: Not bad 8.L.: “The
Civil Servant” needs the labors of the
file G.K.: All rhapsody and no
dialogue E.S.H.: Your invention
creaks EJ.T.O.: Heartbreaking.
F.S.: You’ve got to be more seri-
ous than that if you want to be
funny T.P.M.: Four pages of your
handwriting is a long way to one
(pretty good) Irish bull S.E.: No
deer at any price Y.D.: Your
“Man Who Laughed Once” went one
better than us J.H.T.: Five-
hundred words of dull dialogue to
assure the reader that your hero would
be better-off dead J.R.L.: Poor
old dingoes A.A.O’K.: You cer-
tainly turned that old story inside-
out and put some new buttons on
it F.N.: Tillivalli 1.R.: A
Sydney ferry was the occasion of the
greatest lament in Australian poetry;
in fact, there is a long essay to be
done on Sydney ferries in Australian
literature —and you send in that tiny
performance! . G.S.R.: ■ Belfast’s
not our bailiwick C.M.N.: You
have a long way to go D.K.:
Jacob got stuck halfway up the
ladder H.J.S.: On its way home.
... .C.S.: With “a distant roar fading
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraph*
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
away into silence” the mail-train
hurtled through the office J.W.:
Well, “Here’s to the Rabbit”: —
So, here’s to the rabbit, the jolly old
rabbit,
And down with the myxo that fixed him.
And down with the chemist who had the
grand notion
To mix in his mortar the miracle potion.
....D.1.F.: It sounds like a declara-
tion of war:
The toiling and moiling, the notepaper
soiling.
The racking of brain late at night
Produce but the galling, the ambition
foiling,
“Don’t try writing rhymes when you’re
tight.”
To get some lines printed no effort to
stinted,
Grey matter to bursting point’s strained.
Some new rhymes are minted, to only
have hinted,
“Your ear: perhaps if it were
trained”
Accursed with ambition to bring to
fruition
An embryo child of The Muse,
With this ammunition the war of attri-
tion
Continues in spite of abuse.
Gas-mask at the ready, legs braced to
keep steady,
My slight frame against lethal blasts —
“Cold water’s more heady” or “Off your
high neddy”—
We’U see which of us longer lasts.
....P.H.8.: “The Lamp” went out.
... .M.T.: It says nothing new about
a rainbow J.H.A.: “The Tug’
was scuttled... .M. 5.8.: Neat little
trifles. You might try them elsewhere.
F.S.B.: Well, at least this effort
sees print:
I once sent some verse to The Bulletin,
That journal in character so Australian,
Hoping that praise, not the guillotine,
Would reward work quite Patersonian.
I searched each page and felt despondent
At lack of praise or terse denouncement.
No, not even in “Answers to Correspon-
dents” .
Did I find a reference or pronouncement.
Surely it can’t be so lamentably bad
In metre, rhyme and in meaning 1
It was not Rabelaisian, but decently clad.
In no need of censor’s careening.


"Impermissible Errors"
The Moscow Mystery (2)
By M. H. ELLIS
would have been cynically
astonished.
His own theory of leadership,
as expressed in the officially
published The Immediate Task
of the Soviet Government, was
that the masses set the goal
towards which the movement
works, the ascending ranks of
the party organs convey mass
reactions to the operating level
of government and watch to see
that it does not get off the rails,
but a dictator does the job:
But be that as it may, unquestioning
subordination to a single will is
absolutely necessary for the success
of processes organised on the pattern
of large-scale machine-industry....
And our whole task, the task of the
Communist party (Bolsheviks) i 5....
to understand that it is necessary to
take the lead of the exhausted masses
along the path of labor discipline
... .along the path of co-ordinating
the task of arguing at mass meetings
with the task of unquestioningly
obeying the will of the Soviet leader,
of the dictator, during the work.
What appe.ars to be happen-
ing now is a natural Communist
process. In a different way, it is
in accord with the somewhat
different circumstances of what
happened after Lenin died. Then,
the one man who might have
succeeded Lenin —Trotsky—was
quickly blasted by an ambitious
gang of aspirants combining
together. For a time the name
of Stalin was little, if any, more
potent than those of Zinoviev,
Bukharin, Kamenev, Rakovsky
and half-a-dozen more. Indeed,
it was much less well known
than those of most. But
gradually they were all “done
down” and exterminated by a
ruthless will.
In the recent changes, Beria,
the one man who had a chance
of taking over from Stalin
because he was ruthless and had
the private armies of Security at
his disposal, was quickly pulled
down by the bloodhound group
and blotted out in a welter of
slander and execration, the
easier to apply because most of
it probably was justified.
Those who destroyed him
were now much in the position
of those who followed Lenin:
they were in two sects. In the
Lenin-Trotsky combination
which originally made the
October Revolution there were
Lenin, who was the head and
front of the Communist party,
and Trotsky, who was not by
origin a Bolshevik, nor even a
Bolshevik at the time of the
revolution. There had to be a
compromise. A variation of the
same position now applies.
This is due to the existence of
two groups, both owing their
origin to Stalin, but in different
ways.
Party Rules
Until the war Stalin held his
sway over Russia by dint of the
fact that he was general-secretary
of the Communist party. The
official Government of the
U.S.S.R. was a comparatively
minor instrument which received
its instructions from the party
through him.
He himself held only a very
minor appointment or so in the
Government, yet he was absolute
dictator of Russia. Whoever he
appointed to high and really
influential office held his office
in the party.
Then the need for dealing with
foreign allies on a basis they
would understand (and his own
cunning desire for absolute
dictatorship) led to his seizing
dictatorial powers, a step which
the scattered party of war-time
could not resist. He switched
from party to Government as
Prime Minister, Generalissimo.
And from then onwards a man
did not need to be appointed to
high office in the party to
THE 20th Communist
Congress of the U.S.S.R.
took place in February
this year. The report of
the Central Committee of
the party was read on February
14 by N. S. Khrushchov (this is
the official and phonetically
correct spelling of his name; it
is used in all Soviet documents
in English and in Communist
documents and journals in Aus-
tralia). The report made bare
reference to Stalin except in-
directly. It was officially printed
in full in English, and so was the
speech of D. T. Shepilov, who
was taking over the retiring
Molotov’s role in international
relations. He also refrained
from any attack on Stalin.
The section dealing with “the
party” revealed that the member-
ship had been trebled since the
18th Congress (held early in
1939), and that the party now
consisted of 6,795,896 members
and 419,609 “candidate”
members—333,ooo more in the
gross than at the last conference
of 1952.
The report stated that “the
Central Committee has always
and undeviatingly been guided
by Lenin’s teachings on the
party” which “vigorously com-
bated every attempt to belittle
or weaken the role of the party
in the Soviet State.”
It added:
Shortly after the 19th Congress,
death took J. V. Stalin from our
ranks. The enemies of Socialism
hoped there would be confusion in
the party’s ranks, discord among its
leadership, hesitation in carrying
out its internal policy. However,
their hopes came to naught. The
party rallied still more closely round
the Central Committee, and raised
still higher the all-conquering banner
of Marxism-Leninism (prolonged
applause). The imperialists had
placed special hopes on their old
agent Beria, who had perfidiously
wormed his way into leading posts in
the party and the Government. The
Central Committee resolutely put an
end to the criminal conspiracy of that
dangerous enemy and his accomplices.
That was a big victory for the party,
a victory for its collective leadership.
Still more interesting matter
followed:
The party’s unity has been built up
over the course of many years and
decades; it grew stronger in battle
with a host of enemies. The
Trots kyites, the Bukharinites,
bourgeois nationalists, and other
malignant enemies of the people, the
men who would restore capitalism,
tried desperately to undermine the
party’s Leninist unity from within —
and all of them broke their necks.
It was added that “whenever
it was found that a party leader
had made mistakes in his work,
the Central Committee of the
C.S.P.U. unanimously took the
necessary steps to correct those
mistakes,” and that “party
officials who did not justify the
high confidence placed in them
by the party were removed.”
There was nothing new in
this; no hint that the policy of
the Central Committee or any-
body had been at loggerheads
with Stalin, unless he was in-
cluded in the anonymous cate-
gory of the persons whose
mistakes the Central Committee
had corrected or who had been
“removed.”
Indeed, the reference to the
Trotskyites and Bukharinites —
Stalin’s special enemies—and
their followers and others con-
tained specific approval of the
four great purges executed by
Stalin between 1925 and World
War 11, evidence of the vast
extent of which is to be found
in Communist-party statistics
which show that party-
membership fell by over a
million between 1934 and 1939.
Leadership
What was new was the theory
of “collective leadership” and
the foisting of it on Lenin, who
become a paramount influence.
The emphasis had shifted to the
official Government.
Thus, two groups grew up,
party-men like Khrushchov in
one, men like Bulganin in the
other—those at the top of the
Government and those at the top
of the Communist party.
This duality existed when
Stalin died or was blotted out.
Each lot was sufficiently strong
to hold its own, with the party
still not strong enough to secure
absolute dominance and no one
man sufficiently well known and
strong enough to take over
Stalin’s place.
The result was a compromis-
ing group which has been
gradually shifting the system
back to the old one of complete
party rule.
The Polit-Bureau (now called
Presidium of the party) is now
made up of nearly equal numbers
of the old type party-origin
bureaucrat and the Stalin-
period Government bureaucrat,
with Khrushchov, who is rapidly
going the way of Stalin, sitting
over all in precisely the same
position that Stalin held in his
prime—First Secretary of the
party, but technically not even
a member of the Council of
Ministers, of which Bulganin is
chairman.
His colleagues, who derive
what power they have, not from
their position as Ministers, but
as members of the Presidium of
the Central Committee of the
party, are naturally as anxious
as their predecessors after Lenin’s
death to establish collective rule
in their own interests.
But a glance at the reports of
conference meetings shows that
some in the hierarchy are
more collective than others —
the speeches of some are
accorded only “applause,” those
of others “stormy applause,”
while Bulganin gets “continuing,
lengthy applause, all rise.” But
Khrushchov invariably is
accorded “tumultuous, continu-
ing applause, becoming an ova-
tion, all rise.”
All are agreed that the Stalin
cult must be killed ; the members
of the Presidium to build the
idea of collective rule as a matter
of self-preservation; Khrush-
chov to clear the throne for
himself.
It is obvious that nobody else
really matters, and that the way
is being cleared—by the destruc-
tion of the cult of the individual
f or t jie g ra dual rise of the star
f Khrushchov and the restora
• f T • , .
„ . . ... „ p ~ , ,
sulgle WUL collective leaaer-
ship re P resents the clutch ot the
contemporary equivalents ot the
Zmovievs,' Bukharins and
Kamenevs of the branch on the
bank > as lbe Recl current tugs
them from their temporary foot-
holds ol power.
Revelations
In the first and second weeks
of March, following the 20th
Party Congress, there were all
the usual signs which mark
major upheaval in the Com-
munist world.
Leaders of Western Com-
munist parties who had been in
Moscow for the meeting
suddenly uttered yelps of aston-
ishment about the unrevealed
content of a secret speech which
Khrushchov was supposed to
have made at the end of the
Congress attacking Stalin in
violent terms and accusing
him of all the crimes in the
calendar.
Some of the yelps were death
cries. Bierut, head of the Polish
State, an old Stalinist and an
enemy of Marshal Tito, died
suddenly on March 12 in
Moscow of “a serious illness.”
Moscow mourned for him, as
it was apt to mourn for the
suddenly and suspiciously
departed.
Ulbricht, the old Stalinist of
East Germany, was also taken
seriously ill. For a time it was
rumored that he had followed
Bierut. But he presently came
home weak and ill, having
apparently effected his own cure
and warded off the evil spirits
by shouting maledictions at his
former idol. Nobody had noticed
the death a few days earlier of
a Bulgarian Minister, another
Stalinist.
Nothing was known of the
details of Khrushchov’s tirade
against Stalin until four months
after it was announced that the
speech had been uttered. Then
came the eventful first week in
June, when Molotov and
Kaganovich (Stalin’s brother-in-
law) resigned their portfolios in
the U.S.S.R. Government, but
not their seats in the almighty
11-member Presidium, which is
the real Cabinet; the Cominform
was abolished, various persons
rather unpleasing to Marshal
Tito were destroyed by mortal
attacks of illness and Tito him-
self, in a flurry of gold and
scarlet and goose - stepping
guards, arrived (June 2) in an
open-armed and rejoicing
Moscow.
Two days after his arrival the
United States State Department
issued what it called “a version
of Mr. Khrushchov’s speech to
the Congress of the Communist
party on the last day of
its sitting, February 25.” The
State Department declared that
it could not guarantee the
authenticity of the version, but
had every faith in its “confi-
dential source” of information
and believed that other Western
Governments had copies which
had been sent to Communist
parties abroad.
It was a document calculated
to warm the heart of a Stalin-
hating Tito and endear Khrush-
chov to him.
The Soviet Union had no
comment or denial to make
about either the authenticity of
the text or the matter in it,
though two days after it was
published the Kremlin followed
its usual practice when
embarrassed by producing a
large red-herring, which it had
delivered by its Ambassador to
each of the great Powers, plus
Turkey, offering new dis-
armament proposals. These
were calculated both to divert
the press and occupy the
full resources of overseas
Communist-party publicity
organisations for quite a time.
Sawdust Caesar
The details of Khrushchov’s
speech were devastating and
bewildering to Western brains.
It had, curiously enough, and
whether on purpose or not, been
made available to the West in
the same week as his report to
the Congress, made on Feb-
ruary 14.
Only Moscow could say
whether this had been done by
forethought, so as to render the
Western reader more ready to
puzzle over the conflict between
the report and the speech than
(Continued on page 27)


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in England)
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
NEW SOUTH WADES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
HOBBYISTS
Do-It-Yourself Enthusiasts: Simple
procedures with sketches for Enlargers,
Copying, Photo-copy, Photo-ktho
half-tone, Silk Screen Process and
other information. Send $l.OO Can.
Money Order, or equivalent, men-
tioning this magazine, to:
GEORGE STADE, 1079, Fmlayson
Ave., Victoria, 8.C., CANADA.
Circular Charts for all typar
of Recording Instrument*
for any class of Machine^
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Sp«c*AKj
ACCURACY GUARANTEE!)
ACCURACY GUARAMIttw
JACWW O'SIILLIVANfeI*
auiEN STREET, BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
First weight-for-age event of
the Melbourne early spring
season will be the M-R-C.’s £l5OO
Liston Stakes (seven furlongs) at
Flemington next Saturday.
The Liston Stakes is expected
to provide a thrilling contest,
with such horses as Rising Fast,
Sir William, Watch Out and
unbeaten three-year-old Centre-
way possibly in the line-up.
Others nominated include Hot
Spell, Comic Lad, Summalu and
Astoria 11.
Sydney’s first w.-f.-a. event of
the new season will be the £l5OO
Warwick Stakes (seven furlongs)
at the Warwick Farm fixture on
Saturday week, when N.Z.
champion Syntax and other top-
class gallopers, including El
Khobar, are likely to be seen in
action.
Actually, spring raci n g—
official-spring, anyway—will get
going next Saturday at Warwick
Farm, with the Hobartville Stakes
and Campbelltown Handicap as
main attractions. The 1955
Hobartville was an exciting
event, Kingster, at odds-on,
narrowly downing Aboukir, with
Knave third. It was no pointer
to the A.J.C. Derby, as Aboukir
didn’t compete at Randwick, and
Kingster and Knave ran poorly.
Though, in fact, the Hobartville
is seldom a pointer that way —
it being mostly won by sprinters
—back in 1936 Talking won it
and both Derbies as well, a
sequence brought off also by
Rampion, while Ammon Ra was
successful at the Farm and later
landed the A.J.C. classic. Two
years ago Pride of Egypt won the
Hobartville and the Victoria
Derby.
The Campbelltown Handicap
does not figure in the records as
an Epsom guide; few of its
winners have competed in the
Randwick mile, and those that
have mostly ran poorly. An
exception was Shannon, who won
the Campbelltown in 1945, carry-
ing 9.1, and a few weeks later
landed the Epsom. The follow-
ing season Shannon scored again
in the Warwick Farm sprint with
9.11 and seemed a “certainty”
beaten in the Epso'm, being last
away and losing a lot of ground.
N. Sellwood has made profit-
able visits to Brisbane this year,
and he rode four more winners
there last Saturday. Main
mission was to take the mount on
the brilliant New Zealander El
Khobar, who consolidated his
position as Epsom favorite by
easily winning the Q.T.C. Ascot
Handicap at Eagle Farm in 1.24
for the seven furlongs, half a
second outside the track record.
Sellwood’s four of the eight-
race card included a record-time
win on another New Zealander,
Fair Chance, in the J. H. S.
Barnes Stakes.
A.J.C. committeeman T. Bail-
lieu won the 1950 Epsom with
Achilles, and eight years earlier
Ajixa had won the A.J.C. Gim-
crack Stakes. Pyrrha, who is
by Achilles from Ajixa, success-
fully carried the Baillieu colors
in Canterbury Park’s opening
event on Saturday, the Maiden
Handicap for three-year-old
fillies. Oldest progeny of Achilles
are now in their third year ; Troy
was one of his winners in the
recent season. Ajixa is a
Brueghel fimp.) mare from
Volume by Valais (imp.) and
traces back to Carbine’s son
Wallace.
Twice within a week excuses
were made for Livorno s defeats
in middle-distance events, but in
each instance it seemed the six-
year-old entire was beaten on his
merits, and particularly at
Canterbury. The winner on each
occasion was Kalimah, trained
at' the same course as Livorno
(Rosebery), and Kalimah had
worked and raced much more
impressively than his older
opponent. Livorno, however,
may do better on a more suitable
track than Canterbury, which
doesn’t come easy to some
gallopers. Kalimah has shown
marked consistency, and trainer
Gordon Brown has the five-year-
old son of Hyperio (imp.) in
fine fettle. Kalimah could go on
winning. He is to be set for the
Newcastle Cup (worth £4000),
run September 1. Weighted at
7.12, he incurred a penalty of
51b. for his latest success.
Cassell, winner of the Canter-
bury Park Maiden for three-
year-old colts and geldings,
landed the money mainly
because J. Thompson rode a
heady and vigorous race, secur-
ing the verdict in a very tight
finish. The colt’s sire, Prince
Goldsborough, hasn’t had many
runners to date, while his dam,
Cassali, a French-bred mare by
Casterari from Sally Switch by
the Carbine sire Spearmint, won
at 11 furlongs in her own
country.
At this time of the year—early
in the new season —stayers
frequently surprise in short races,
and another name was added to
the list when Australia’s best
staying mare, Evening Peal, won
the Canterbury Park Frederick
Clissold Handicap (six furlongs).
A few months ago Evening Peal
won races at Randwick at 10 and
12 furlongs. Freshened-up for
spring racing, she came from
the rear of the field at Canter-
bury and caught the more speedy
gallopers near the winning-post.
Three-year-olds Gay Sierra
and Grenoble, in filling the places
in Evening Peal’s Canterbury
event, drew attention to their
prospects in near-future engage-
ments. At time of writing
they are expected to compete at
Warwick Farm. Evening Peal
may contest the Newcastle Cup.
She is also engaged in the main
spring handicaps, with the Mel-
bourne Cup as the stable’s chief
goal. She has Bst. in the two-
miler, and 8.2 in the Metro-
politan. In her present form she
wouldn’t be out of it in the
Epsom, in which she has 8.3.
Sydney apprentice Laurie
Stephenson, who claims 71b.
allowance, has ability above
average, and before the season
is much advanced he could add
to his winning-tally. He is a tall
youth, about J. Thompson’s
height, and is improving with
the increasing number of rides
he now gets. Given the mount
on the well-fancied Geiger in
the Canterbury Second Belmore
Stakes, he made full use of the
gelding’s ability to begin smartly,
saw to it that Geiger would not
be cut off from the awkward
start at the 7i-furlongs chute,
and after that was always with
the-lead, though all-out to stall
off Passion Queen.
Despite the fact that the grey
gelding Aqua Boy had landed
a plunge at Randwick five days
earlier in Novice company, he
was allowed to go out at 10-to-l
for Canterbury Campsie Stakes,
which he won in decisive fashion.
Aqua Boy could make a useful
stayer, as he is a son of Persia
by Nizami (imp.) from Oro-
stream by Oro from Windstream
by Windbag.
* * *
Palm King started at 200 to 1
and got home by half a head
from another “roughie,” 40-to-l
Match Play, in last Saturday’s
Chatsworth Plate (one mile) for
three-year-olds at Caulfield.
Well-fancied Reinstate was a
close third. Palm King is a
Palm Vista (imp.) colt from
Running Sea by Portofino (imp.)
from Lyncombe by Devonshire
(imp.). His relatives include the
well-performed Cromis, Royal
Feast and The Sirdar, and he
was bred by Mrs. L. Gunnerson,
of Lauriston Park, Lilydale
(Vic.). Lyncombe was a half-
sister to Royal Feast.
Caulfield saw the return to
best form of Arlunya. Having
his first outing since he finished
second to King’s Fair in the All-
Aged Stakes at Randwick,
Arlunya, who has shown to
advantage when fresh after a
spell, was made a 2-to-l favorite
for the St. Aubin Handicap, and,
ridden by R. Hutchinson, he had
a comfortable victory over the
unfancied St. Joel, with Moogara
third. As a result of his perform-
ance Arlunya has come right into
the Caulfield Cup market,
though he has his share of weight
in that event, 8.12. Caulfield
racegoers were also impressed by
St. Joel’s fine finish with 9.2 —
21b. more than Arlunya carried.
+ +
“Keima”: Queensland tennis
youngster Rod Laver, who, with
Victorian Bob Mark, is overseas
under Hopman’s tutelage, won
the U.S. junior singles title from
an American lad with the good
old tennis-name of Crawford.
What is worth noting about
Laver’s effort is that it’s the first
time an Australian has won the
title —not even Hoad or Rose-
wall took it out when they tried
three or four years back. Since
he’s been away Laver —a tall
left-hander with a strong service
—has done all right; has also
won the North of England junior
singles and been runner-up in
three “big” junior titles, Wimble-
don, French and American
Eastern.
* * *
A couple of athletic efforts
worth singling out, at a time
when new records and good per-
formances (in athletics and
swimming) are being recorded
from various parts of the globe,
particularly where Olympic
Games trials are being held:
The breaking in Berlin of the
20-year-old Jesse Owens 100-
metres record (10.25ec.) by two
other American Negroes, Willie
Williams and Ira Murchison
(new time, 10.1) ; in London
Englishman Derek Ibbotson’s
becoming “by accident” the
ninth man, and fourth English-
man, to break the four-minute
mile (3min. 59.45ec.); and, in
Australia, Keith Ollerenshaw’s
winning of the N.S.W. marathon
in Australian-record time (2hrs.
22min. 12sec.), which is 51.2 sec.
better than Zatopek’s Olympic
record.
“Veryl”: Most would be con-
tent to break a world-record
once in the one day. During
the U.S. Olympic Games swim-
ming trials Bill Yorzyk, in the
200-metre butterfly in a 50-metre
pool, swam it in 2min. 22.25ec.
(previous record, 2min. 23.85ec.),
and a couple of hours later took
the time down further, to 2min.
19sec.
* * *
With an aggregate of 289 for
72 holes, Bruce Crampton won
the Australian Open in fighting
fashion, beating Kel Nagle right
on the post. Crampton, who’s the
bare 20-and-a-bit, played with
the coolness of a veteran as he
birdied the last two holes to
take the title. His four rounds
read: 72, 71, 78, 68 (289),
Nagle’s 69, 77, 69, 76 (291).
The Canada Cup—Davis Cup
of golf—may be played in Aus-
tralia for the first time next year.
Now the world’s major inter-
national golf classic, it was
launched in 1953 by multi-
millionaire industrialist John
Jay Hopkins, of New York, and
first winners were the
Argentinians Antonio Cerda
and Roberto Da Vicenzo, at the
Beaconsfield Gold Club, Mon-
treal (Canada). Australia won
the title in 1954, when repre-
sented by Peter Thomson and
Kel Nagle; the U.S. has bagged
it in the last two years.
* * *
Victorian Russell Mockridge
won the 125-mile Australian
professional road-cycling cham-
pionship, raced this year in
Tasmania. Another Victorian,
the consistent Eddie Smith, who
won the last two Australian
road-cycling titles, was second,
only a length and a half behind.
Mockridge won the Australian
amateur road-title the first time
he entered (1947), and this was
the first time he’d raced in the
pro. event.
* * *
The fight for fourth place in
the V.F.L., which looked last
week to have been decided in
favor of Carlton, is still on, with
Footscray downing Hawthorn
15.13-9.6 and—the other neces-
sary contingency—Carlton being
defeated by Richmond 10.11-
7.24. Fittingly, the Blues and
the Bulldogs fight it out between
themselves in the last home-and-
home round this Saturday.
Footscray made the changes
which should have been made
several games ago—l ed Whitten
back to centre-half-back and
Collins from a flank to centre-
half-forward ; the moves were a
huge success. Carlton kicked
atrociously, but Richmond
played gamely and deserved to
win. Collingwood clouted Gee-
long 15.11-10.9 down at
. Kardinia Park, too, where it
takes a visiting team all its time
to win! Melbourne, recovered
from its defeat by Geelong,
hopped into North 16.18-11.5,
though only in the last quarter
did the Demons get away; and,
in the other games, Essendon
beat South 11.10-7.16 and Fitz-
roy ditched St. Kilda, 8.8-6.7.
“Blufire”: St. Kilda’s Bill
Young, one of the Saints’ chief
acquisitions this year, has
brought back to V.F.L.-football
a very old brand of full-forward
play, now so old as to be new.
Old-timers liken him to Fitz-
roy’s Jack Moriarty, who topped
the V.F.L. goal-kicking list in
1924, and to its earlier Jim
Freake, top goal-kicker in 1913.
Not for Young the high-flying
spearhead play of Coleman or
Todd; slight and not so tall, his
assets are swift movement, sure
hands, an amazing goal-sense
and what is perhaps the most
accurate boot in the V.F.L. at
present. Not surprisingly, he
heads the league goal-kicking list
with 52 goals.
• • • •]
Australian Rules is getting a
firm grip in North Queensland.
A Townsville national - football
league was begun in 1954, and
last year a Cairns league was
formed. Progress has been rapid
in this “Rugby country,” and
regular club-games are held in
both cities. A series of Cairns-
Townsville games has begun;
Cairns has won the four so far
played, but by diminishing
margins. Visiting R.A.N. ships
Arunta and Swan have played
against local teams, and drew
big crowds. An Innisfail club
has now been formed, too.
* * *
With one round to go in
Sydney Rugby Union, Gordon,
Randwick, St. George and East
will meet in the finals. East
made sure of its possie by
toppling a weakened Randwick
20-11, in a hard-fought game of
non-stop football. It was closer
than might seem, East scoring
four tries and ’Wick three. St.
George, scoring five tries to two,
didn’t have overmuch trouble
with Eastwood 18-11, while
Drummoyne held top-ranking
Gordon to a 9-all draw. (Six
of Drummoyne’s points, a try
and a penalty-goal, came from
winger Arch McLardie, who
had played through the reserve-
grade game and scored 11 of
Drummoyne seconds’ 14 points;
last week, in Drummoyne’s
16-11 win over East, he had
scored 10 points—try, two goals
and a penalty —after scoring all
the reserves’ 12 points. McLardie
has played virtually two games
each afternoon for the last four
rounds.) University, too late to
get any benefit from the win,
beat Manly 16-14 and Parra-
matta coped with North 13-3.
* * *
“Aqua”: None .of our Aussie
Test-bowlers has done as well in
England as did Yarraville (Vic.)
speed bowler George Upton in a
game last season. Against Sun-
shine he took 9-33 off 12.6 overs
unchanged, and caught the other
man. Still, friend Laker’s fourth-
Test effort would compare favor-
ably with it.
* * *
With cries around Sydney
town of “fixed” fight-decisions,
and a general howl in recent
years that Australian boxing is
out on its feet, it was pleasing last
week to see the fight-game reel
temporarily off the ropes when
George Barnes (10.5) defended
his Australian welter-title against
Darby Brown (10.6{) in a
dinkum 15-rounder at Sydney
Stadium. Thirteen-odd thousand
fans went downtown to see the
scrap, and were not disappointed.
Though not the last word in fisti-
cuffs, the bout, going the full
distance, was solid all the way,
the challenger getting the ref.’s
pat by not much more than a
hair’s-breadth. A 25-year-old
ironworker, Brown, formerly a
hit-’em-hard-an’-keep-’em - down
fighter, is lately sporting a tasty
straight-left, which he used
mightily against Barnes, and a
manoeuvrability which renders
his armament dangerous at both
long and short range.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
i
CUT
KEEP YOUR COMFORT!
0
WORLD-WIDE LOW FARE TOURIST SERVICES
“ Enjoy the finest in economical
international tourist air travel. Fly on
8.0.A.C. “Coronet” Services at low
tourist fares in fully-pressurized air-
conditioned airliners.
Plenty of leg room . . . wonderful free
meals . . . drinks on request . . .
“beck and call” service.
“Stop-over” where you like on 8.0.A.C.
Speedbird world routes—no extra fare.
See your Travel Agent for trip-planning
help. It costs no more for his valuable
services—and he can book you by
8.0.A.C. from Australia to any of 51
countries.
MAC
takes good care of you
Information and reservations from all leading Travel Agents
and Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
nv/i9v
to devote his attention to the
real inwardness of Khrushchov’s
charges against Stalin.
In the report he made a sober
claim for the paramountcy of
credit for the Central Committee,
even in regard to the purges of
the ’twenties and ’thirties, and
for their steady success in main-
taining the tenets and objectives
of Communism undefiled ; but
11 days later Congress had
accorded exactly the same sort
of applause, “rising to an ova-
tion,” to his devastating attack
on Stalin for having usurped
and diabolically misused the
authority of the collective
leadership.
The attack was calculated to
convey to the Western mind the
assurance that all the Soviet’s
worst detractors had been right,
and that for 28 out of the 39
years the Soviet Union has
existed it had been out of control
of the Central Committee and
the party and at the mercy of
a horrible terrorist who had
blotted out like a fly anybody
whom his Asiatic mind even
suspected of being prepared to
lift a finger against him; one
who gradually became a law
unto himself, and whose opera-
tions had been accompanied by
torture and wholesale murder ;
a diabolical egotist from whom
nobody was safe.
The speech, in fact, con-
tained a catalogue of sinister
immolations and outrages
against human dignity which
dwarfed the performances of
Himmler and recalled those of
Caligula and Nero as recorded
by their worst enemies.
Such specimens of his methods
were chronicled as the sad
experience of Comrade Rozen-
blum, who, after being “terribly
tortured,” was offered his life on
condition that he gave totally
false evidence. He was told:
"You will not need to invent
anything. The N.K.V.D. will
prepare for you an outline for
every branch of the [supposed
treasonous] centre. You will
have to study it carefully and to
remember well all the questions
and answers which the court
may ask.... Your future will
depend on the trial and its
results.”
“Framed”
Stalin had “framed” many of
his old friends and had had them
shot at will by the secret-police.
He had treacherously exiled
Marshal Zhukov to Siberia
during the war, and had begun
to spread treacherous rumors
about him. He had demon-
strated his suspicion and haughti-
ness not only in relation to
individuals in Russia but
actually in relation to whole
parties and nations. He had been
guilty during the war—the man
who was held up to the world by
every Communist on the globe
as having won it singlehanded
by his military genius—of “per-
sonal cowardice,” “panicking.”
It was hinted that the assassi-
nation of Kirov, Stalin’s boon
companion, the signal for the
triggering-off of the vast purges
of the middle-’thirties, had been
planned with the connivance of
Stalin himself; that the murderer
had been assisted under orders
by one of Kirov’s own police
guard; that the whole police
guard had then been liquidated
to prevent the facts leaking out.
It was suggested that Ordzhono-
kidze, who supposedly died of
heart-failure, and at whose
funeral Stalin was a pall-bearer,
was actually an opponent of
Beria; that Stalin “allowed his
brother to be liquidated and
brought Ordzhonokidze himself
to such a state he was forced to
shoot himself.”
There was miles more of the
stuff—sB closely-printed pages
of personal and inter-
national treachery; domestic
murder, sometimes achieved by
a low animal cunning; mass
assassination ; faked trials, and
faked evidence to destroy
opponents or suspects;
cowardice, and criminal neglect
of duty to the danger of the
country, in which the law
provided for the execution of
simple workmen and foremen
for criminal laxity at the bench.
On May 24, 1941, the “under-
ground” “Tribune,” official
organ of the suppressed Austra-
lian Communist Party, described
Mr. Churchill and his associates
and Rudolph Hess, who had just
then landed in England, as “class
brothers, imperialist gangsters,
enemies of the Soviet Union,
enemies of liberty, bloody
monsters.”
Khrushchov agrees that Mr.
Churchill was an enemy of the
Soviet Union and that he wished
to assure its destruction by
plunging it into war with Ger-
many, and he says that this was
his purpose when he warned
Stalin on April 3, nearly two
months before Hitler attacked
Russia, that the Germans
intended to invade the U.S.S.R.
He is shocked, however, that
Stalin ignored the warning—it
has always before been denied in
Moscow that it was given—and
says that it was due to Stalin’s
stupidity that throughout the
war Russia did not have enough
arms.
He also says that throughout
the war “the nervousness and
hysteria which Stalin demon-
strated, interfering with actual
military operations, caused our
Army serious damage.”
And yet the speaker admitted
that, “in a spirit foreign to the
teachings of Lenin,” this
horrible creature whose picture
he painted had been “elevated to
transform him into a superman
possessing supernatural
characteristics akin to those of a
god”:—
Such a man supposedly knows
everything, sees everything, thinks for
everyone, can do anything, is infallible
in his behavior. Such a belief about
a man, and specifically about Stalin,
was cultivated among us for many
years.
The Teacher
Every one of the Communist
parties of the world had
accepted Stalin as its godhead
in the face of all argument.
In fact, there was a period
during the war when not to
accept him in the capitalist
world was to court insult and
perhaps assault from people who
were not Communists.
Almost the whole of the Aus-
tralian press for a period bowed
down in worship of his superior
virtues and unparalleled military
genius. Not to join in was to
risk being called a Nazi or a
Fascist or a Trotskyite.
Those few who deduced and
exposed the true facts, largely
from Moscow’s own official
documents and trial reports,
were laughed to scorn as “red-
baiters.” The manner in which
the now-fallen idol was regarded
by Communists abroad was
shown in 1939, after virtually
every leading Leninist in Russia,
high or low, who could be
caught had been slaughtered or
sent to Arctic farms on
fabricated evidence or no
evidence at all. On March 14
that year the Australian Com-
munist Party sent him a cable:
Your example, the example of the
party of Lenin and Stalin, the
organisers of the great October
Socialist revolution, inspires us to
undying confidence in the teachings
as ffie^on^^efiabie o guide d the
great struggle against the bestial
EHSSS an< T onf ZTom
great* teacher, Comrade Stalin,
beloved leader of the World
Proletariat.
Four months later, when
ComraCde Stalin was found
drinking champagne with
Ribbentrop, the agent of “the
bestial Fascist warmongers and
destroyers of liberty and
culture,” to whom the cable had
referred, Comrades Sharkey and
Dixon and followers were not
dismayed. Theirs not to reason
with a god. Anything the Great
Stalin did must be right and
democratic. “When Joe turns
over, we all turn over.”
Testing Opinion
Aff er the Khrushchov soeech
i_ TL me jvnrusncnov speecu
Western ° world
silence from Moscow for a
S Swas obviously part
S ! carefnllJTnuffht outolan
F W
.
d f str ° y me ® e t mory ° £
& tHause » ffianhe
vin ’ , '
to
"L fin? had best
T.J
H . t t t t ’
and bow to take lt- .
There is almost certainty that
tbe overseas Communist parties
received their instruction from
Moscow about what objections
tbey were ra ‘ se ’ wbat tbe
terms °f their protests were to
be< The wbole performance was
£o ° re gi mented and uniform for
** to bave b een produced by any
otber method. That employed
was designed to allow Moscow,
a^ter tbe worst bad been uttered,
t 0 cut . tbe wbcde .incident down
to a s ’ ze wbicb it believed the
dumb catde capitalism might
be made to sw allow in a Central
Committee thesis.
The reactions of the overseas
Communist sections were
regimented and sorrowful, but
restrained. They contained just
enough protest to fill anti-
Communists abroad with a vain
hope . that . £°?" RI J. SSI “
munism might break away from
the father body Some essays
were tinged with emotionalism
which carried the criticisms to
th e point of suggesting a
degeineracy m Commumsm But
ims , was oone longue in cnee*.,
to B ive the Moscow interlocutors
an opening they needed. The
dual performance between the
exiles ana me central yuiniiuuce
very much resembled the old
Fivoli performance ot Mr.
Bones and friend.
Only the British party seemed
*° be genuinely a bit awkward
and iconclastic. It went to the
extraordinary length of suggest-
in,s tbat , the , tir ? e bad arnved
when the death-penalty—even
when indicted h l
Presumably—might be abolished
thr ™ gboUt t l he * •
The Kremlin decided to ignore
that blt ’ and it probably has not
been told officially of J the Aus :
trahan party’s immediate and
e omic reaction ’ wb | ch t . im P^ d
it to gathei up all the Stalin
P amphlets jt has and put them
on its sbelv f at bargain-prices,
The week this was wrltten , the
shelves at the headquarters shop
°f the C.P. of Australia looked
like a Stalin Memorial
Exhibition.
Generally, all overseas party
critics followed the theory
advanced by Togliatti and the
French Communist party that
“it will be necessary to make a
profound Marxist analysis of the
causes of the degeneration of the
functioning of Soviet democracy
and party democracy; that it
j s not enough to attribute these
developments solely to the
character of an individual, and
that a more adequate estimate of
the role of Stalin, both in its
positive and negative aspects,
will be necessary.”
The British Communist party
wrote that it considered the 20th
Congress wa £ correct in
condemning the cult ot
individualism and endorsing a
£ nISSi w tendlTshi n ln i n ner-
collective leadership a
party democracy ; also in expos-
mg the evils that followed the
departure. from Lemnis
principles.
®
arg deeply shocked by the injustices
and cr jmes which, during the period
under review, violated the essential
“nd of
c ommun j sm We repeat that such
evil practices are totally alien to
Socialism and Communism.
Considering that the evil
practices and all the rest have
admittedly, on the basis of the
Khrushchov speech, been
standard and dominating in the
policy of the U.S.S.R. since
years after the foundation of
most of the overseas parties and
those who have regarded it as
the moth fr- fou ß tam + of Co-
munism the effrontery of the
writers of this document must
be a, \ all * tln ? e recorcL . Th ® y
themselves have consistently
extolled tbe evils and their
source without pause foi the 33
year f n tbey hav £ exist ® d (out . of
the 40 for which the Communist
world has been in existence),
.. . .
Kremlm Explains
When all the foreign theses had
been received Moscow summed-
up in the first week in July, a
month after the issue of the
speech in Washington. Its
summation consisted of a resolu-
tion of the party’s Central Corn-
mittee nearly 10,000 words long,
following other references to
“matter issued by the United
States State Department which it
describes as Comrade Khrush-
chov’s report to the 20th Con-
gress of the Communist party.”
This is a defence of the
members of the present regime,
arid apparently, in part, is
(Continued on page 34)


Research in Industry
No. 27 in a Series.
It
X
COLOUR FROM COAL. This year marks the centenary of the
discovery of the first synthetic dyestuff. lust one hundred years
ago, William Perkin, a young British scientist, discovered mauveine,
a dyestuff made from coal-tar. Perkin set up a small factory to
make this new product and so founded the great modern dyestuffs
industry which exists in the world today. He eventually became
financially independent and devoted the remainder of his life to pure
chemical research. He was knighted for his work in 1906. The ICI
Dyestuffs Division is now one of the largest suppliers in the world
of dyestuffs and pigments, and its ancestry can be traced back to
Perkin’s original company.
It is an odd fact that Perkin was actually looking for a way to
make quinine artificially when he made his momentous discovery.
This drug, derived from cinchona bark, is used in the treatment of
malaria. Whilst he failed then, his work was not in vain, for many
of the products made by the ICI Dyestuffs Division have been found
to have great value in medicine, and much of the research activity
of the Division is related to such problems a direct result of the
discovery of how to make dyestuffs from coal.
During the war, supplies of quinine were cut off, and a team of
research chemists, and biologists in ICI laboratories began a long
and wearisome search for a substitute. Eventually, Experimental
Compound No. 4888 showed promise, and further work proved it to
be a most satisfactory remedy for malaria. Produced under the
name “Paludrine,” it was widely used during the last war and is now
an established antimalarial drug. And so, Perkin’s work was crowned
with success nearly 90 years later.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
L.. 870.4011
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NASSER AND SUEZ
A SAMPLING from the first
large and angry wave of
British and American press-
comment on Egypt’s nationalisa-
tion of the Suez Canal:
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “President Nasser
evidently interpreted the West’s
concessions to the Arabs as a
sign of weakness. Confident that
the United States and Britain
would not dare to get tough with
him lest he turn to Russia,
Nasser intensified his campaign
to push the Western Powers out
of the Arab world —including
Irak, Jordan, French North
Africa.
“As Western resentment
mounted, so did the West’s
determination to show Cairo
that such tactics would not pay-
off. Washington and London
began re-examining their whole
Middle East policy and
specifically their December offer
on the Aswan Dam. Suppose,
the diplomats asked each other,
the West withdrew that offer —
what could Nasser do?
“Cairo finally told the Western
Powers it was ready to accept
the December offer. Washington
and London announced they had
decided to withdraw the offer
because they doubted Egypt’s
ability to build the dam ‘in
present circumstances.’ ”
« -V -l-
Osgood Caruthers, in “N. Y.
Times” : “Most infuriating of all
to Colonel Nasser in this action
by the Western Powers was the
implication contained in the
reasons they gave that Egypt’s
economy was not deemed sound
enough to carry the burden of
the $1,300,000,000 High Dam
project during the estimated 15
years it would take to complete.”
* * V
“N. Y. Times” editorial com-
ment : “He [Nasser] said: ‘You
may issue statements from
Washington and you may put
out lies from Washington. If an
uproar in Washington creates
false and misleading statements
that the Egyptian economy is
unsound I look at you Americans
and say: “May you choke to
death on your fury! ” ’
“As the wind-up of a three-
hour speech in Alexandria he
proclaimed the nationalisation of
the Suez Canal Company with all
its properties and assets. He
shouted: ‘The Suez Canal
belongs to us. [lt] was built by
Egyptians and 120,000 Egyptians
died building it. Thirty-five
million Egyptian pounds ($lOO
million) has been taken from us
every year by the Suez Canal
Company. We shall use that
money for building the High
Dam. We shall rely on our
own strength, our own muscle,
our own funds.’ ”
* * *
E. V. Francis, in London
“Daily Telegraph” : “Can Nasser
in fact make the Canal pay for
the dam? How can a gross
income which has averaged
about £29 million for the past
five years pay for a project
estimated to cost well over £4OO
million?
“On last year’s performance
the Suez Canal Company showed
a revenue of about £35 million
and a surplus, after expenses, of
some £l6 million. This was
reduced to £ll million after tak-
ing account of reserves and other
allocations.
“Nasser might, of course, seek
to recoup himself by increased
transit-fees. But there is a limit
beyond which such increases
could not go without driving
traffic away.”
The same : “Since the war the
number and size of ships using
the Canal have steadily
increased. In 1939 traffic
averaged some 17 or 18 ships a
day. The latest figure is 41 ships,
many of substantially greater
tonnage.
“Increased traffic has called
for an extension of the Canal’s
facilities, and since 1949, when
the seventh works-programme
was begun, the company has
spent some £3 million a year
on development works. The
most important innovations are
the new by-passes which will
enable four convoys a day to
pass through the Canal in both
directions. The rest of the pro-
gramme is concerned chiefly with
deepening the main channel by
20in. over its whole length,
which would admit the latest
oil-tankers, many of which have
a draught of over 35ft.
“Work on these by-passes,
which was to have been com-
pleted next year, would involve
the removal of eight-million
cubic yards of soil by dredging
and of 800,000 cubic yards of
rock. Although the company has
trained many Egyptians as
technicians since the war, it is
inconceivable that this massive
engineering feat could be carried
out without the aid of European
experts.”
The same: “In addition to
these long-term improvements,
the Canal demands constant and
costly servicing if it is to run
“Manchester Guardian”:
“One of Sir Anthony Eden’s
London "Daily Mail”
“ON GUARD, MATE?”
efficiently. Maintenance and
administration cost over £9
million a year. Since the
Egyptians took over supervision
of their own irrigation-canals in
the Delta these have become
noticeably less effective, and
some have silted up completely.
Western technicians wonder
what would happen to the vastly
more complex shipping-canal if
it were so neglected.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorial comment: “His
[Nasser’s] own position is pre-
carious economically. Heady
cheers from the Cairo mobs are
no substitute for cash. Whether
with the East or with the West he
depends absolutely on the credit
of a good name. And this is
precisely what he has thrown
away with such rec k 1 ess
unconcern.
“What the Western Govern-
ments should be searching for,
in fact, is that little strategic push
which will totally overthrow a
man who has already over-
reached himself and mistaken
the sycophancy of neighboring
oligarchic Arab countries as a
call to assume the mantle of the
Charlemagne of the Middle
East.”
* * *
London ‘‘Financial Times”:
“The first point that is apparent
is that Colonel Nasser will not
be able to pay for the Aswan
Dam out of the current revenues
of the Suez Canal Company.
When he speaks of the annual
revenue of $lOO million he is
referring to the gross revenues
as though they were the net
profits. Even the much smaller
sum which is available in profit
is heavily charged with capital
commitments for reconstruction.
Yet, of course, this is not the
calculation which Colonel
Nasser is making. He is reckon-
ing on being able to extort much
larger sums. He is taking a vital
economic weapon into his own
hands to use for his own
purposes.
“The value of this weapon is
very great. About 80 million
tons of oil were expected to pass
through the Suez Canal this year. 1
Much of that tonnage could
probably be carried round
the Cape and it may be
right so to carry it —• but
it could only be done at a
much higher expense and only
by straining all the resources of
the oil companies and the world’s
tanker-fleets. Fifty-six per cent,
of the United Kingdom’s total
oil-supplies normally comes
through the Canal. If Colonel
Nasser is allowed to impose his
squeeze he will be able to extract
ve v large sums from so huge a
traffic.”
remarks was rather strange. He
said that no arrangement for the
Canal would be acceptable which
left it in the unfettered ott'trol of
a single Power which could use
it for the purposes of national
policy. Acceptable or not, this
was just the arrangement which
was made when the British
Government evacuated the base.
Certainly we put our trust in the
sense of responsibility of the
Egyptian Government not to
exploit its advantage; but we
accorded the unfettered control.”
The same: “Colonel Nasser’s
move is an all-out appeal to
nationalism. By delivering,
without Russian aid, a major and
humiliating blow at the Western
countries Colonel Nasser appeals
over the head of the rival Arab
Governments to the rank and file
of Arab nationalism. It is the
further weakening of Western
prestige in the Middle East
rather than the disposition of
the Canal —which in any case
would have gone to Egypt in
1968 —which is the more serious
consequence of these recent
transactions.”
* * *
Paris “Le Monde”: “Many
factors indicate clearly that
Nasser is taking heavy risks in
his Suez adventure. But the
West would also be taking a
very serious risk by counting
too much on time to demonstrate
the folly of the Egyptian leader
and to bring about his bank-
ruptcy. By wasting time, by be-
ing satisfied with empty protests,
by having recourse to the
Security Council, which will be
blocked immediately by Russia’s
veto, by threatening vague
economic reprisals, the West
would only underline its lack of
power and reinforce the prestige
of the enemy.
“If Nasser is now allowed to
act with impunity, he will next
be in a position to rule in Algiers
and in Baghdad while experts
will be demonstrating, as they
did in the past with Hitler, that
his regime is about to crumble.”
* * *
London ‘‘Daily Express” : “The
Egyptians may well assert that
nationalisation was not their
idea. They got it from us
[Britain], just as the Persians did
when they nationalised the
British refinery at Abadan. No
one can deny it. And there is
now a wry contrast between the
ardor with which the [British]
Socialists nationalised and Mr.
Gaitskell’s wrath at seeing their
example copied by the
Egyptians.
“But at least the British
Socialists confined their take-
overs to British properties.
There was never any attempt to
expropriate the belongings of
foreigners. That is what Nasser
is doing, and his nationalisation
is therefore on an entirely
different basis.”
The same: “If Nasser gets
away with this robbery what
will the end be? Once accept
nationalisation as a valid act in
the Middle East and no Western
nation’s oil-installations will be
safe. Millions of pounds’-worth
of British enterprise and invest-
ment will stand in danger of
expropriation.
“It will be impossible to place
reliance on any treaties in that
area.”
* * *
London ‘‘Observer”: “This
breaking of a contract, due to
expire 12 years from now, means
that no Government, inter-
national agency or private com-
pany will be ready to make
agreements with the Egyptian
Government for a long time,
More than that, Nasser’v
Hitlerian tactics have prejudice
the whole future of capital
movements between the indus-
trialised and underdeveloped
countries. Recently the plan
for the great £250-million Volta
River project, which could turn
the Gold Coast into one of the
world’s largest aluminium pro-
ducers, was made public. Every
such project becomes harder to
finance with Western resources
if nationalisation is used as a
means of pandering to national-
ism.”
The same c “The Canal is vifat
to the whole world. Britain and
Western Europe stand to lose
most if President Nasser chooses
to interfere with freedom of
navigation, for two-thirds of
What wives
don't know
Many women are hampered by
ignorance and inhibitions in
their marital relations, and this
can wreck the most promising
marriage, says eminent physi-
cian and marriage counsellor Dr.
Abraham Stone. In August Read-
er’s Digest he speaks frankly
about woman's role in marriage.
“Billy Graham’s mission to
the Far East,” another August
feature, brings you the inspir-
ing story of his tour, how the
evangelist stirred thousands
even Communists by the
Word of God.
Then there’s "What’s the
truth about Bridey Murphy!”;
“It pays to increase your word
power”; a wealth of stimulating
articles in this month’s Reader’s
Digest: only 2/ —now on sale.


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” No 26*
SYBSSST
And J'few South
OAM TTE,
N' ' <; <■].*
L . . . y ttttohU; MARCH C|g
**^r■'*■"'&*■*’»! ,<*h»mh;#&» *,» i» ottpmm tui**?* **»*>'« *wy#*t«mi
' ' "* T * re ** *®* H ■***■* <**»? *»* -safel* mi mtm« urn ■***
****** »>***#** ■-« M «», ta»„ {1tV,..,«.
, -*& «»oikv n'exW)w.«<w-f# cw:
*—**•.w. ... -^ltt-T--“-!> 1 unc■ nll n^iiin ) lt<|| ■■.. i ..._;_ •■•:• ■> . : .. >.,.. v ;-v :• „• '
x ■••: '< -> ' *.. ;•: <.. _ x . ' . :■*<: . T" **•>*» ihm^wwmh^w^^w
€V4{in, > 'te **,*> |To «* *4ik d* , : ' i-SSi
The First Newspaper in Australia
Australia’s first newspaper was a drab
four-page weekly called the “Sydney
Gazette and New South Wales Adver-
tiser,” first published on March 5, 1803.
Edited and printed by George Howe, the
“Gazette” was the official organ of the
Government and had little resemblance
to the newspapers of to-day either in
content or appearance. It was of foolscap
size, smudgily printed, with many of the
“s’s” looking like “f’s” in accordance
with the typographical practice of the
day, and its news was closely supervised
by Governor King to conform with
Government opinions.
Much of the first issue consisted of
official notices, shipping items and court
reports, including an account of some
runaway convict labourers (described as
“licentious banditti”) who had been
causing alarm in the Baulkham Hills
district. A critic of the “Gazette” later
described it as a mixture of “fulsome
flattery of Government officials and . . .
inane twaddle on other matters.”
The “Gazette’s” early circulation was
about 300 copies an issue. It experienced
many difficulties, among which was a
great irregularity in the supply of suitable
paper. At various times, it appeared on
pink, brown and green paper.
The first six issues of the journal were
published on Saturdays. Then it was
published on Sundays—thereby becoming
Australia’s first Sunday newspaper—and
thus continued fpr nearly 'Seven years,
after which the newspaper reverted to
publication on Saturdays.
When eleven early issues of the “Gazette”
were offered for sale in London in 1954,
the value placed on each copy was a
little more than £4.
For more than 20 years, the “Gazette’s”
weekly batch of “official” news was the
only source of public information in the
Colony, but in 1824, W. C. Wentworth
founded a paper called the “Australian,”
which attacked the tyrannical and un-
popular Governor Darling. This was not
only our first independent newspaper, but
it was the first newspaper in Australia to
be published daily.
Another anti-Darling paper, the “Moni-
tor,” was started in 1826 by Edward Hall.
The “Sydney Herald” began publication
in 1831, changing its name to the “Sydney
Morning Herald” eleven years later. This
journal has now been published con-
tinuously for more than 125 years and is
the oldest newspaper in the Southern
Hemisphere.
The first N.S.W. newspaper outside
Sydney was published at Maitland in
1841. This was the short-lived “Hunter
River Gazette.” Since that time, more
than 700 newspapers (many of them, of
course, now defunct) have appeared in
N.S.W. country districts.
The avid demand for news is shown by
the fact that, at the present time,
Australia has 639 newspapers and con-
sumes well over 200,000 tons of news-
print yearly. About a third of our
newsprint requirements is now produced
in Australia.
First in Quality First in Favour
CHATEAU lAHUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
★ ★ ★
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
* Copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application
HF2«
their oil comes that way, but
Asia and the Soviet- bloc coun-
tries will be affected also. More-
over, the density of traffic
through the Canal is now so
great that there is an urgent need
to deepen and widen it. If
President Nasser merely creams
off the revenue to finance pro-
jects such as the Aswan Dam
he will be doing a disservice to
world commerce which will
make Egypt loathed rather than
respected abroad.”
* * *
Bonn (West German )
“General-A nzeiger”: “Colonel
Nasser has challenged almost
the entire world. The Arab
States, which have approved the
nationalisation of the Suez Canal
Company, will, however, not
stand by Nasser in an emerg-
ency. We also do not believe
that the Soviet Union will risk
an adventure for Nasser’s sake.
Should Europe, whose citizens
contributed so much daring and
industriousness to build the
Canal, simply put up with the
fact that they have been dis-
possessed by a stroke of Colonel
Nasser’s hands? If Europe
resigns itself to it, then its citi-
zens will no longer be in a posi-
tion in the future to invest any
more money and labor in States
where there is no longer any
legal security for the invest-
ments.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times”:
“Colonel Nasser’s crime is not
nationalisation: nor is it his
claim to sovereignty over the
Suez Canal itself, which runs
through Egyptian territory and
in which the reversionary
interest falls to Egypt anyway
when the concession expires in
1968. It is his flagrant and
deliberate defiance of inter-
national engagements, of the
bounden word of successive
Egyptian Governments, and of
the vital interests of the whole
maritime world. This is not
politics but piracy.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“After this reckless defiance of
those international decencies
which give confidence to foreign
investors, the Egyptian Govern-
ment will find it impossible to
get the capital it desperately
needs. The follies of Moussadek
and Peron are repeated with
even less justification. Nasser
has sabotaged his country’s
interests more effectively than
her worst enemies could hope
to do.”
* * *
Hanson W. Baldwin, in “N. Y.
Times”: “Nasser’s recklessness,
preceded by many Western mis-
takes and weaknesses, and short-
sightedness, have now clearly
aligned the West against him.
France has at length denounced
Egypt—the psychological and
political fountainhead of much
of her difficulty in North Africa.
Israel benefits emotionally,
psychologically and politically in
the unstable Middle East equa-
tion. And chauvinistic Pan-
Arabism will become more
explosive than ever.”
* * *
“Edinburgh Scotsman” : “The
unfortunate thing about the
necessity of defending the free
world against Communism
was that any measures we
[Britain] took to secure bases
or communications could be
made to look like old-style
imperialism. States which would
no longer exist if it were not
for that network enjoyed the
luxury of criticising those more
actively engaged in its upkeep.
Whatever the disadvantages
of the present situation, it should
at least remove these inconsis-
tencies of outlook. It is easy to
cry imperialist’ until one’s own
communications are cut. It is
easy to say ‘the underdeveloped
countries right or wrong’ until
one of them starts to behave like
Nazi Germany. We [Britain]
naay expect, then, to enjoy
fuller support and understanding
lrom our allies than ever before
on this matter.”
Edward Cranksliaw, in Edin-
burgh “Scotsman”: “How does
Moscow fit into the Suez crisis?
It is clear as daylight that Mr.
Dmitri Shepilov, the new Soviet
Foreign Minister, has been play-
ing for some time a sinister role
in Cairo.
“This gifted but not, I think,
markedly subtle or perceptive
party official turned Minister of
State seems to have chosen the
Middle East as his personal
stamping-ground. It was he
who, even before becoming
Foreign Minister, as a swiftly-
rising star in the Khrushchev
constellation, bounced the Soviet
Union into the Middle East via
the notorious arms-deal between
Egypt and the Czechs. And one
of his first actions as Foreign
Minister was to visit Cairo for
the recent junketings to cele-
brate the departure of the
British.
“Clearly, Mr. Shepilov has
been encouraging President
Nasser in his anti-Western atti-
tudes, and has been sustaining
him with assurances of Soviet
sympathy and support. Judging
by the enthusiastic Soviet press-
comment, he may even have
urged him to seize the Suez
Canal.”
* * *
London “Daily Herald”: “Our
British Communists don’t
change. They are fawning on
Colonel Nasser now. They see
nothing wrong in his cult of
personality.
“Just as until recently they
licked Stalin’s boots and slavishly
applauded his pact with Hitler,
so now they line up with the
dictator of the Nile in his policy
of hate against Britain.
“Communist policy may twist
and Communist policy may turn,
but the way it blows is always as
the wind blows from Moscow.
“See the sort of people they
are! You never know what
they believe, but you always
know where to find them.
Prostrate with their heads to
the East and always against
their own country.”
Stalin's Ghost
Commenting on the campaign
to deflate the Stalin legend, a
“U.S. News and World Report”
representative in Moscow notes
that it will be a big job to
remove the evidence —“although
the late dictator has been down-
graded and denounced by his
successors, his name and face
remain conspicuously present in
the Soviet Union”:
“Stalin’s mummified body, in
lifelike repose, still is on display
under glass in Moscow’s Red
Square. It lies in state in a
massive tomb of maroon marble
now known as ‘The Mausoleum
of Lenin and Stalin.’
“Every hotel in Moscow still
exhibits in its lobby a huge
painting, photograph or statue
of Stalin. Two marble statues
of the fallen dictator dominate
the lobby of the Moskva,
Moscow’s biggest hotel.
“Stalingrad, Stalino, Stalina-
bad, Stalinsk, Stalinogorsk and
17 other Soviet cities still bear
Stalin’s name. So do hundreds
of streets, factories and collec-
tive-farms.
“The visitor, flying to Moscow
from Paris, encounters Stalin’s
effigy almost as soon as he
touches Soviet-ruled soil at
Vilna airport. In the high-
ceilinged waiting-room of the
terminal a massive bust of an
ageing Stalin looks down
benignly, like Big Brother, from
a lofty balcony.
“There can be few places in
the world where Stalin is more
hated than in Vilna, the capital
of the Baltic State of Lithuania,
which was one of his first
military annexations. But Vilna’s
main boulevard still is called
‘Stalina Prospektas.’ Postcards
showing the boulevard are on
sale at the airport post-office,
along with 40-kopeck com-
memorative stamps bearing
Stalin’s portrait. A huge picture
of the dictator as a young man
hangs over the entrance of the
airport restaurant.
“At Moscow’s Vnukovo Air-
P ort a Stalin portrait hangs in
entry-lounge. A huge statue
of Stalin decorates the waiting-
room.
“Nobody in Moscow ques-
tions the determination of Com-
mun i s t boss Nikita Khrushchev
and others to wipe out what they
call the Stalin ‘cult of per-
sonality.’ Some portraits have
been taken down. On May
Day this year, when shops and
Government offices were be-
d ec ked as usual with pictures of
Soviet leaders, past and present,
£ n y a few scat^ re f portraits of
ta 10 went on display.
“But the visible down-grading
Stalin still has a long way to
8°- Western diplomats here are
c °n v i nc .W that the turning-
point, if it comes, will be the
remova l of Stalin’s body from
Lenins tomb -
“As a result, Moscow is the
settin 8 now for one history’s
stra ngest death-watches the
wa tch over the entombed body
a Georgian revolutionary who
was born as Joseph Vissariono-
vich Djugashvili in 1879 and
died in the Kremlin three years
ago as Generalissimo Stalin,
dictator of all the Russias.
Millions of Russians and foreign
visitors are hastening to get a
close look at the dead ruler,
whom in life they saw only
rarely and at a great distance.
“Lenin’s tomb always has been
a major attraction for tourists.
But now the queues are 50 times
as large as they were before
Stalin was placed there. Even
on rainy days, a mile-long line
of visitors five abreast stretches
from the tomb across Red
Square and extends far into
adjacent streets,
“Over the entrance, the in-
scription ‘Mausoleum of Lenin’
is weathered to the same color as
the marble surface and is almost
invisible. The newly carved
words, £ And Stalin,’ stand out
sharply.
“Within, the visitor descends
white-marble steps to a black-
marble room lit by softly
diffused lights that illuminate
the bodies. Lenin, the founder
of the Soviet State, and Stalin,
his dictatorial successor, lie side
by side on twin pallets. Their
heads rest on pillows.
“Lenin’s hands and face,
topped by a bald pate, look
somewhat grey and leathery.
Stalin appears tanned and
healthy in his resplendent
uniform. The visitor looks in
vain for evidence to support a
theory that Stalin was murdered
by his colleagues. All that one
can tell, for sure, is that, if the
dictator’s death came by violent
means, neither his head nor his
hands were injured,
“Stalin’s body, his pictures and
statues are not the only evidence
of his one-time domination of
the Soviet Union. There is no
more striking reminder of
Stalin than to see, in the flesh,
the present rulers of Russia who
were appointed by him to top
jobs between 1926 and 1952.
“Those who see Premier Bul-
ganin, Khrushchev and others
for the first time are immedi-
ately struck by one characteristic
they all share—their height. All
are short men. None is taller
than Stalin’s sft. 6in. The
deceased dictator disliked having
men around him who were
taller than he.”


lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
'k SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In ease of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD., ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
Missing Friend
FRY, Susan.—Wife of RICHARD
JOHN FRY, who died on 19th
October, 1953, and to whom the
said SUSAN FRY was married on
10th October, 1917, at St. Kilda,
Victoria. Daughter of ELLEN
WILLS and ALBERT JOHN-
SON. Last heard of about the
year 1922 when she resided at
Somerset Street, Richmond, Vic-
toria. Benefits were left to the
said SUSAN FRY by the Will of
the said RICHARD JOHN FRY,
and it will be much to her
ADVANTAGE if she, or anyone
knowing her whereabouts, will
communicate w r ith / NATIONAL
TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY OF AUS-
TRALASIA LIMITED, 95 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
m
im &
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O'Connell Sts
Sydney.
H. V. La wry.
Manager.
The Bird
By VIVIAN SMITH
IT was Saturday afternoon
and as usual his mother and
father were drinking noisily
in the kitchen with half-a-
dozen of the neighbors.
The wireless was roaring
loudly as the men sat on the sofa
in their shirt-sleeves and braces,
half-emptied glasses of beer in
their hands, their eyes fixed on
the wireless, vibrating with its
excited voice, tense and urgent
and hissing home the horses fluey
had backed.
“Come on, come on, Larry
Boy,” the boy’s father kept
shouting wildly, punching his
knee or the air. “You little
beauty! You little beauty!”
The horse had won. And his
father got up from the sofa and
danced his mother round the
kitchen.
“All right, Jim ; that’s enough.
You’ll make me breathless,” the
woman said, smoothing down
the front of her dress and push-
ing her husband aside.
They poured out more glasses
of beer and sang and talked
about horses and turned the wire-
less up louder and louder. One
of the neighbors went off to get
some more bottles.
Old Mack, who lived nextdoor,
said, his face unstitched with
smiles, “You and the missus can
have a bit of a spree now, Jim.”
But the woman, in her cheap
floral frock, pushed her hair back
from her forehead with her bare
arm, and said: “That’d be a bit
too good for Jim.”
When she said this the boy
climbed out from beneath the
sofa, where he had been hiding
inside his newspaper-house, and
went out into the backyard.
There was a sudden sense of
tension in the kitchen, and he
wanted to be outside if they
were going to start another of
their rows, their Saturday-
arguments. So he went quietly
into the backyard and no one
noticed him disappear from the
small, narrow kitchen in the back
of the house.
He was going to Mr. Bear-
man’s down the road. The lane
at the side of the house was dark
and oppressive ; but the boy felt
free when he got outside in the
narrow street with its tramline,
moving through an endless row
of toppling tenement-houses,
leading half-a-mile away to the
sea and the blue idle port.
A small naked child in tattered
clothes was playing with a car-
tyre in a gutter; but the boy
didn’t want to stop and talk.
He walked on, straight along the
indifferent footpath where
windows and doors opened to the
street.
xJJ
And suddenly he started to
run. He wanted to get to Mr.
Bearman’s as soon as possible—
to see all the birds —and he ran
full-pelt through the street of
broken shadows, peeled walls
and patched windows. He was
running to see the birds, the
shadows of his legs melting like
liquorice in the quick summer
light.
And he ran all the way until
he nearly got the “stitch,” and
only stopped with a jerk out-
side the lane Of one of the middle
houses like every other house
in the cow: but different, dif-
ferent inside, in the backyard,
from every other house.
Because Mr. Bearman had
birds: hundreds of birds in a
great aviary, or little fancy wire-
cages or dim breeding-boxes.
But birds, hundreds of birds:
the hush and flutter of wings,
the flash and flutter of color ;
all sorts of birds: a dry-tongued
South American parrot with
scarlet, ruffled wings and cynical,
drooping eyes ; finches, cages of
finches: fireworks of feathers,
incandescent wings, fluttering in
a riot of red if you frightened
them; and gentle, yellow-
colored canaries and parrakeets ;
and one freed and crippled
magpie, endlessly strutting and
cruel in its arrogant pride of
knowing four words . . .
The boy walked slowly up the
narrow side-lane and came into
the dark backyard.
MR. BEARMAN was sitting
on an apple-box, smoking
his pipe.
“There you are, Eric. Come
in. Come in and see the birds,”
he said in his slow, hushed voice.
And while Mr. Bearman sat
there watching the smoke curl
up out of the hot bowl of his
pipe into the blue shadows and
black light Eric went around
the cages looking at the birds,
the small green parrots, the
shivering wings of finches.
He stood at the wire for a
long time looking at the beating
clipped wings of the South
American parrot.
“Where’s Polly?” he asked at
last, turning timidly to the did
man. Polly was an ancient,
hunchbacked rosella.
“Here,” Mr. Bearman said,
out of the shadows, pointing to
an open rubbish-tin. “The rats
got her at last. I knew they
would. They got a couple of
canary-eggs too. Rats, cats, the
swines. Ate her leg off.”
His voice was distant and
bitter, as if he was talking to
himself. But he said kindly,
“Mind your fingers in that cage.
You might get nipped.”
So Eric immediately played
his finger in the cage, torment-
ing the small parrots that just
missed his finger and caught
their beaks on die wire.
Mr. Bearman sat there
smoking his pipe, looking into
endless distance. His eyes were
old and faded like a blue shirt,
his face brown, his lips sharp
and tight. He had lived in
Guthrie-place for over 40 years
with his mother. He had severe
kidney-trouble and lived on a
small pension.
He was a bitter, silent man ;
he lived in himself and had very
little to do with anyone around
him. But he didn’t mind Eric
coming to look at the birds. He
tolerated the boy: he didn’t get
up to too much mischief or
show-off.
“Mr. Bearman,” Eric asked
excitedly, “would you give me a
bird to take home with me?”
Mr. Bearman sat there draw-
ing on his pipe.
“But you’d have nowhere to
put it,” he said at last, spitting
out shreds of tobacco.
“But if you gave me a parrot
I could keep it in my bedroom.”
Mr. Bearman didn’t laugh.
“That’d be no good ; it’d die or
fly away out the window . . .
And your mother wouldn’t let
you . . . No ; I couldn’t give you
a bird. These birds cost me a
lot of money. And one bird
would get very lonely; it’d die
by itself.”
Eric looked back at the great
cage of birds: the silent twitter-
ing canaries, the red glorious
finches with their stabbing
scarlet beaks . . .
“Oh, please, Mr. Bearman.
Couldn’t I have a little canary,
then?”
Mr. Bearman stood up from
his apple-case and went inside.
The boy got on his nerves. It
annoyed him, all this pestering
for one of his birds. Those
birds were his life: those birds
and his old mother who had
been dying for 20 years in a big
double-bed in the front room
of the house. No ; he couldn’t
give the boy a canary or any sort
of bird. It would be a waste. He
was a sick man. The bird would
fly away or die and then the boy
would want another bird and so
on and so on. And he’d have no
birds at all . . .
But then he felt sorry. He
liked the way Eric was fond of
his birds ; he liked the boy. But
if only the boy could realise how
senseless his request was . . .
Couldn’t he see that the birds
were much happier here, all of
them together in this great aviary
like a boarding-house that it had
taken him years to build and to
add on to? This aviary, his
aviary, was a world. Each bird
belonged.
He tried to explain this to the
"No, 'Switch' is in conference. This is Wetherby-Blackburn speaking—
can I take a message?"
boy, to make him understand.
But Eric couldn’t. He was
tenacious, stubborn. He burst
into tears and ran home.
■pVERY Saturday afternoon
•*“' when his mother and father
were drinking and listening to the
races, Eric would come away
from the house and run down
the long tenement-street to Mr.
Bearman’s, wishing for a bird in
a cage that would be his own,
singing, whistling and flickering
its feathers and flying quietly or
madly around in his bedroom :
for he would sometimes let it
out of the cage . . .
Finally, with stubborn, child-
like persistency, he succeeded
in wearing Mr. Bearman down.
The old man promised to give
him a bird of his own, next
Saturday.
“Yes: come next Saturday. I
think I’ll be able to find a bird
for you by then,” he said.
So Eric returned, running
down the long, grey tenement-
street, running this time really
to get the bird and keep it for
ever. A bird of his own.
When he arrived, Mr. Bear-
man wasn’t sitting in the back-
yard as usual. Eric went up to
the wire of the great aviary and
looked at the birds in their
separate rooms: the South
American parrot, the finches, the
canaries, dazzling, alive with
fire and color, picking at their
seed or flirting their feathers in
the little cement water-dishes.
For a while, looking at the
world of birds, he thought that
Mr. Bearman was hiding because
he didn’t want to give him a
bird. But he wasn’t sure.
He went down and knocked
timidly on the back door. “Are
you there, Mr. Bearman?” he
called.
“Come in.”
He opened the door into a
kitchen exactly the same as the
one at his place, except that there
were stacks of newspapers all
over the room, and it was dustier
and darker.
“Hallo, Mr. Bearman.”
Mr. Bearman sat at a table
drinking a cup of tea. “You’ve
come for your bird, I suppose?”
“Yes ; if you’ve found one.”
Eric noticed a fancy bird-cage
sitting on top of a safe. He
hoped Mr. Bearman would give
him that to put the bird in.
“Yes, well I’ve found a bird
for you,” the old man said,
fussily; and shambling over to
the dresser he picked up some-
thing and brought it back and
gave it to Eric.
“Here you are. Here’s a bird
for you. It’s a real bird.”
Eric looked down. He closed
his eyes, waiting for the soft
touch of feathers. But Mr. Bear-
man had given him a photo of a
canary cut out of a newspaper.
“Yes, it’s a real bird,” the old
man said. “If you put it in a
cage it will sing and do all sorts
of things and dance. You might
even teach it to talk.”
He waved his hands wildly.
The boy couldn’t speak. He
was frightened. Much later he
said: “I didn’t really want a
bird, anyway. So it’s all right.”
The old man looked at Erie
dumbly across the silence


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. 2/-
Yearly 22/6
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GWEN ADA WALSH late of “Hazel-
dean” Arncliffe Street Arncliffe.—-TAKE
NOTICE that ERIC NORMAN WALSH has
tiled a Petition for Divorce No. 2175 of
1956 on the ground of. desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 15th October 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
E. H. TEBBUTT & SONS, Solicitors, of
28 Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY JOHN MCDONALD late of
“Cloudlands” Lurline Street Katoomba
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that HILDA
McDONALD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2779 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
22nd day of October 195-6 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. ROBERTSON PARKHILL ROFE
& MOFFITT, Solicitors, 79-81 Pitt Street,
Sydney, in the said State.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BEEF BREEDS AT BRISBANE
Hereford*
T\ESPITE all the publicity other
receive, Herefords are
still top favorites with Queens-
land cattlemen. This was borne
out by this breed’s large entry
at Brisbane Royal Show, and by
the large crowd from all the
eastern States which intently fol-
lowed the judging.
The Royal National Associa-
tion has a rule that no animal
under 18-months can compete
for the senior championship.
An extraordinary chain of events
this year exposed the foolishness
of this restriction, and the sooner
the R.N.A. follows Sydney’s ex-
ample of permitting the best
beast to take the junior and
senior championship the better.
Or Brisbane might improve
matters by having a junior and
senior championship, and a
supreme championship as well.
Senior bulls were weak in Bris-
bane, as they ire at most shows
nowadays, since the accent is on
early-maturing beef. Breeders
with a long experience of Bris-
bane Royal Shows described the
line-out of bulls for the senior
championship as the worst they
had seen.
Contributing to this was the
exclusion of two attractive bulls
after the judge, P. J. Snow,
Cuppaciimbalong, Queanbeyan
(N.S.W.), had sought expert
veterinary advice on their breed-
ing-organs. The incident was
without precedent at Brisbane,
and was naturally debated among
ringsiders; some thought it
would have been more discreet
merely to have passed the bulls
over.
In justification of what was
done, these particular bulls were
the outstanding animals in their
class, and ringsiders most cer-
tainly would have queried the
judge’s competency had he placed
inferior animals over them. As
it was, onlookers knew why the
bulls were transferred to the
bottom of the line, and the judge
had an authoritative opinion for
what he did, even though other
opinions might'differ from the
one the judge acted on.
Altogether, 182 Herefords
were entered, compared with 176
last year, and a fairly big “tail”
in the older male-classes was less
conspicuous as the younger
classes came out. Nevertheless,
there is still too much variation
in type for the good of the breed,
and too high a percentage are
“on the leg,” even allowing for
the Queensland preference for a
little more leg than is accept-
able by southern standards.
If Australia is to maintain
her position as one of the
leading meat and wool pro-
ducing countries of the
world jher sheep and cattle
men must come into line
with modem methods de-
signed to maintain lambs
and calves in good condition.
Referring to the Elastrator
rubber ring method of mark-
ing and tailing lambs and
marking calves, the manager
of a large station in Western
Australia wrote—“We con-
sider the method just what
was needed by all sheep
breeders. It will save the
industry tens of thousands
of lambs that were lost
through various causes under
the old tailing system.”
Hays Bros.’ Bexley Reward
was the senior-champion Here-
ford bull and came from the class
18-months and under 21-months.
The judge was so taken with his
marvellous color and sirey out-
look that he passed over his
strong loin and sloping rump,
which spoilt an otherwise
splendid representative of the
breed. He is by Anchorfield Dis-
covery (imp. in utero), which
sired the champion steer-carcass
at the R.A.S. beef-cattle show,
held in Sydney last May.
The reserve-champion bull
was Turee Hotspur, by Bounds
Deeppelds Jack, champion Poll Hereford bull at the Brisbane Show, exhibited by Torsdale Pastoral Company, Biloela (Q.).
Quest (imp. in utero) from the
class two-years and over.
Best bull on the ground, in the
opinion of the judge and a lot
of other breeders, was Miss
Thelma McMaster’s Dalkeith
Director 2nd, from Cassilis
(N.S.W.). Miss McMaster was
too busy with the management
of Dalkeith station to make the
trip to Brisbane this year, but
her mother, Lady McMaster, was
there to receive the trophy which
went with the junior-champion-
ship. Dalkeith Director 2nd is
by Dalkeith Raymond from a
dam by Weston Mainsail 2nd
(imp.).
The reserve junior-champion
was runner-up to him in the 10-
to-12-months class. This was
W. Tanner and Sons’ Hillcrest
Geoffrey, from Willow Tree
(N.S.W.). Geoffrey, along with
the bull which filled third place
in the class and the other Hill-
crest bulls taken to Brisbane,
is by Vern Crumpet (imp.), whose
first calf made 2100gns. at this
year’s Sydney sales.
Champion female was an ideal
type of Hereford . breeder —
Turee Una 6th, by Bounds Quest
(imp. in utero). Fairymead Sugar
Co., Bundaberg (Q.), exhibited
the reserve-champion female,
Fairymead Royal Duchess 2nd,
by Cuppa Courageous, a bull
bred by the judge.
David Pratten gave Turee
Floss sth a trip to Brisbane to
let northerners see what a Syd-
ney junior-senior champion
heifer looks like. She won her
class and the junior champion-
ship and most likely would have
taken senior honors as well but
for the R.N.A. ruling that an
animal must be over 18-months
to be eligible for the senior-
championship.
Turee took three of the four
group-prizes, including sire’s
progeny, with the get of Bounds
Quest (imp. in utero).
Poll Herefords
. Poll Hereford entries, judged
by R. Simpson, Quirindi
(N.S.W.), set an Australian
Royal Show record for the
breed, with an entry of 159 head.
Interest was strengthened by the
presence of E. W. McCamley and
S. A. Plant, two Queensland
breeders just back from the
World Hereford Conference in
Buenos Aires. They don’t seem
to think Australia is in the race
in competing with Argentina on
the world’s beef-market. Argen-
tina’s costs are about one-third
of what they are in Australia,
and she has the additional advan-
tage of a much shorter voyage-
period.
High standard of the Polls
at this year’s Brisbane Show was
indicated by the champion,
Deepfields Jack, having been
purchased at the 1956 Sydney
sales for 2000gns. by Torsdale
Pastoral Co., Biloela. Torsdale
last year in Brisbane paid
6000gns. for the Hereford
champion, Woodlands Saxon,
and is making cattle-history in
Queensland by using these high-
priced sires out in the paddocks
for the production of herd-bulls.
Reserve-champion bull was
Kildrummie Roger 4th, from
D. and M. Carnegie and Co.’s
stud at Holbrook (N.S.W.). He
is by Milton Sanak 4th, one of
the best-fleshed bulls of the
breed.
Rockhampton supplied the
junior-champion bull, E. W.
McCamley’s Eulogie Truman,
while the reserve-junior bull,
Brewarrana Stanley 3rd, came
from W. J. Lenehan’s stud at
Narrandera (N.S.W.).
In females, J. R. Perrett’s
Mount Hope Gemanna, from
the peanut-country round Kinga-
roy (Q.), won the senior ribbon,
and E. W. McCamley’s Eulogie
Nellie 19th the junior.
Other successful exhibitors in-
cluded W. O. Fairfax, Harrington
Park, Narellan (N.S.W.), and
Mrs. N. P. Wright, Blandford
(N.S.W.).
Shorthorns
Only 47 Shorthorns were
entered, compared with 89 last
year, and, with odd exceptions,
they were a disappointing lot.
If there is one reason more than
another to account for the
decline of Shorthorns at Brisbane
Royal, it is the poor encourage-
ment southern breeders get when
their bulls go to auction. Bris-
bane market is extraordinarily
erratic, and, if the northern
State wants good Shorthorns,
buyers will have to provide an
incentive in the way of a con-
sistent demand before stud-
masters will send the cream of
their herds.
Outstanding feature of the
section, judged by lan William-
son, of Victoria, was the
success of Kyalla Pty., Ltd.’s,
Greenwich Park team from
Towrang, near Goul b u r n
(N.S.W). Its contribution in-
cluded champion bull (Green-
wich Golden Sovereign),
champion female (Greenwich
Summerton Gorgeous), also
first-prize breeder’s and sire’s-
progeny groups and group of
three bulls, all with progeny of
Calrossie Royal Standard (imp.).
Daughters of Royal Standard
are being mated with Calrossie
Paramount (imp.), who cost
£12,500 (Aust. currency) landed.
D. R. McCaughey’s Coonong
stud, Borambola Park, Wagga
(N.S.W.), exhibited junior and
reserve-junior male champions—
Coonong Commando and
Coonong Chariot.
Poll Shorthorns
William Leonard and Sons,
Welltown, Goondiwindi (Q.),
exhibited champion bull (Well-
town Approval) and junior
reserve-champion bull (Welltown
Masterkey), despite the fact that
the property has been constantly
flooded since January. At one
stage the only part of the 45,000-
acre run out of water was the
acre of ground carrying home-
stead, station-buildings and bull-
stalls.
The junior-champion bull was
Jock Robertson’s Turan Mirage,
from Scone (N.S.W.).
The blind breeder J. T.
Scrymgeour, now recovering
after being seriously burnt, won
senior female-championship with
Netherby Red Radiance 3rd and
junior - championship with
Netherby Roan Contralto.
The judge, G. R. Starritt, from
Victoria, noted a considerable
improvement in Poll Short-
horns and described the tops as
excellent.
Aberdeen Angus
Unless more breeders come
forward with stock, Aberdeen
Angus look like fading out at
Brisbane Royal. Judge H. C.
Corden, of Inglewood, reported
that the tops of the bulls com-
pared with the best' of other
years, but there was a definite
falling-away in quality once the
prizewinners were taken out.
H. G. Munro, from Booroo-
mooka, ,Bingara (N.S.W.), with
four-head, won champion bull
(Booroomooka Yarraman),
champion female (Booroomooka
Yar rari), reserve - champion
female (Booroomooka Yaco-
nette); also first in breeders’ and
sire’s-progeny groups.
W. E. Webster, of Kingaroy
(Q), won 10 firsts, junior-
champion bull (Sarum Gesture),
reserve junior-champion bull
(Sarum Economy), as well as
junior and reserve - junior
championship prizes for females.
C.T.
SHEEP AT MELBOURNE
A/TELBOURNE, as a sheep-
show and ram - selling
centre, has an importance which
is sometimes overlooked by the
sheepman from more northern
parts of Australia. It is not as
spectacular in presentation or in
the number of sheep shown as
the Sydney Sheep Show and
associated sales, but it is a show-
window and market for the
superfine and fine-wool Merinos,
not only from Victoria but from
Tasmania also.
It is, in fact, the only remain-
ing centre on the mainland for
the show and sale of the famous
Tasmanian Merinos which once
—with the Mudgee (N.S.W.)
sheep—dominated the world’s
markets.
Tasmanian wools still get
world-record prices, but the sale
of surplus rams from these
studs poses a problem. Mel-
bourne is the only (and nearest)
outlet. There was a time when
Tasmanian rams were sent to
the Sydney sales.
Every year rams from Tas-
mania are sent by air and by
ship to the Melbourne Sheep
Show and sales. And here the
{Continued on next page)


'!Ta 2
mm
s=l
Patent No. 156596
wmmms
s/S >
i nit
tim
&
•s,
OPERATING COSTS ONLY I/- AN ACRE
• Fits any tractor P.T.O. Clears an
Bft. strip.
• High tensile Manganese alloy steel
chains harden with use.
• Adjustable friction type coupling
cushions shock loads.
• Price only £l9B F.0.E., F. 0.8., all
capital cities.
• The “Arthur” Rotary Slasher
will clear 5 to 7 acres an hour,
even in tough, dense growth and
operating costs average only 7/6
an acre! Bring YOUR pest-
smothered land into production in
one season!.... increase your land
values overnight! Arrange a
demonstration with your nearest
Distributor!
TOpSOfvlj
IT
Write to the Manufacturers for Illustrated Literature
l TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS—?>■ A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Power Plant Ltd. VIC.: Moore
Road Machinery Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: Wigmoreg Ltd.;
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe ; British Tractors
Pty. Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day and Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle
Motors, Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. Export Enquiries to Marmfacturers.
mm
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatical y
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil. _
YOU CAN INSTALi IX! The simple instruction card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
- DISTRIBUTORS :’
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore
N.Z.:
N. Guinea
Hvgeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.5.W.),82 Goiilbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, g
William St., Adelaide. ..
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (W.A.), 349 William St., ,
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins SL, Me-
bourne; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also
Launceston, Tasmania. . ■„
C T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland N.Z.
Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port More y-
mainland sheepman can see and
appreciate the difference be-
tween these short-woolled, dense,
fine and superfine sheep and
their counterparts in N. S. Wales
particularly, where a milder
climate and larger areas have
developed a larger-framed sheep
and breeding has developed a
greater length of staple—if not
the density.
The black tip of the Tas-
manian sheep stood out at the
ram-sales. Of recent years Tas-
manian breeders have empha-
sised the distinction between
their sheep and the mainland
Merino by selling them in one
block, through one agent. This
was unpopular, and has now
ceased.
At Melbourne, as at Sydney
sales, South Australian and
Westralian buyers, even if they
didn’t buy a great many sheep,
were bidding for the best of
them: and this inter-State com-
petition affected the market.
The Sales
This year’s highest price for a
Merino, 900gns. (300gns. better
than last year), went to the old
Victorian stud Barunah Plains
(James Russell Estate, Hesse;
the stud has been in the Russell
family for over 100 years). It
was paid by a man better known
for his four-figure buying of
Herefords and his successes
with cattle in the show-ring
than as a sheepman—J. R.
(Jim) Allen, of South Boorook,
Mortlake (Vic.). Mr. Allen
recently had the honor of judg-
ing Herefords in England.
Second-top price went to
Merryville (Yass, N.S.W.) for
what experts considered one of
the best-woolled rams ever
brought south by this famous
stud. His undercovering and
evenness of fleece were topics
of conversation —as was the
closeness of his horns. But, at
the price, no ram is perfect.
Buyer was well-known sporting
man Sam Calvert, of Maroona
(Vic.).
Best-selling Tasmanians came
from Valleyfield (Campbell
Town and Epping Forest: R. R.
Taylor and Son), 420gns.;
Kenilworth (Campbell Town:
A. W. Taylor), 400gns.; Pleasant
Banks (Evandale: John Foster),
350gns.; and Winton (Campbell
Town: John Taylor), 325gns.
But one must beware of giving
too much emphasis to the fine
and superfine types at Mel-
bourne. New South Welshmen,
in particular, are inclined to
oversimplify the Victorian
picture —thinking of the State
as a small one with a high rain-
fall, populated with Southdowns
and fine-wool Merinos. But
there are thousands of acres in
Western Victoria running good
lines of medium wools. That’s
why the Riverina studs are also
represented—why studs like
Merryanbone, at Warren
(N.S.W.), find it worth while to
send rams down to Melbourne.
Incidentally, it was good to see
Havilah (Mudgee, N.S.W.)
represented again. Its return
(second year) after a long
absence was well supported.
Top-selling Riverina stud was
Mulwala (James Sloane and Son,
Wood Park, Jerilderie), which
sold to 450gns.
The Corriedale situation is
interesting. The show probably
has as many entries as Sydney,
but the sale has many more —
and the prices are better. The
Corriedale following in the
south is growing.
The largest ram sold of any
breed was the second-highest-
priced Corriedale, bred by R. E.
Wettenhall, Ceres (Vic.), and
bought for 570gns. by J. R.
Savage, of Gambier View,
Mount Gambier (S.A.). Esti-
mated to weigh over 2601 b., he
made the top-price ram (also
bred and offered by Mr.
Wettenhall) look small —which
he is not. Certainly the Gambier
View ram is the largest Corrie-
dale ever seen by this writer.
Mrs. S. A. Borgelt, of Battenby,
Nhill (Vic.), paid the top price
of 610gns. Mr. Wettenhall has
topped the sales many times at
Melbourne.
Top price for a New South
Wales offering was 350gns. for a
ram bred by M. Carroll and
Sons, of Molong, bought by
South Australian A. Facey, of
Millicent.
Remarks about the popularity
of the Corriedale in the south
apply to the Polwarth. These
two Australasian breeds are a
fascinating illustration of what
breeders and environment can
evolve from the same basic
stock (Lincoln-Merino). Per-
haps when the horn comes off
the Polwarth entirely the differ-
ence will not be so noticeable:
but there will still be marked
differences in wool and confor-
mation.
Top price for a Polwarth was
500gns., paid for a horned ram
from L. and C. Lawrence’s
Formosa stud, Cressy (Tas.), and
bought by well-known New
South Welshman A. J. Kendall,
of Glendoon, Henty. Formosa
also sold the second-t Op-priced
ram at 330gns. to G. D. Cum-
ming and Son, of Darlington
(Vic.).
A word of criticism. The
agents run a very good sale. It
is far more animated and
friendly than the show. But the
sale is held in one wool-store
and the show is held in another
wool-store, and both lose a
great deal in interest and prestige
by the separation. A city which
is catering for the Olympic
Games should be able to do
better than that!
The Show
The show itself was some-
what crowded: the whole
Merino (show) strength of the
State, with Merinos from Tas-
mania, plus Corriedales, Pol-
warths and British /breeds,
jammed into the show-floor of
one wool-store. The Australian
Sheepbreeders’ Association had
its 74th annual exhibition, and
what with looking at exhibits
and shearing-tables on the
floor, lunching on the first-floor
and ducking down for an occa-
sional reviver on the ground-
floor, the conscientious viewer,
after a time, felt rather like a
learner-shearer wrestling with
his first wrinkly ram.
The committee showed good
judgment in asking the chairman
of the C.5.1.R.0., Sir lan
Clunies Ross, to officially open
the show. He had something to
say, and said it directly and
concisely: Australia can produce
more wool (six-million bales in
the not-so-far-distant future),
but it must improve in overall
quality. The war with synthetics
must be carried into the rival
camp. Raid their strongholds—
don’t wait for them to raid ours.
The British breeds at Mel-
bourne, with Polwarths and
Corriedales, total more than the
Merinos. But this is the Merino
show. The British breeds show
their finest plumes at the Mel-
bourne Royal in September,
which is probably the best
display of fat-lamb breeds in
Australia.
Merinos
In the Merino section we find
many of the prize-winners had,
wholly or in part, Merryville
blood. The blue-ribbon of the
Merino show is the Lionel
Weatherly Trophy for three
rams and two ewes (equivalent
of Sydney’s Stonehaven Cup),
and this was won by a pure
Merryville-blood team shown by
R. G. Walker, of Pleasant Park,
Goroke (Vic.), exhibitor in the
small-holder’s section.
Although there is no second
prize, small-breeder H. O.
Schulz, of Grassdale, Cavendish
(Vic.), was unofficial runner-up,
also with a team of Merryville-
blood.
The fine-wool section at Mel-
bourne tells Sydney what this
class of lineout should look like.
Every class had over a dozen
entries, and each was a headache
for the judge. Ram-champion-
ship winner was one shown by
J. M. Taylor, of Winton, Camp-
bell Town (Tas.), who also
's' \ .
showed the champion superfine-
wool ram.
Generally, prizes in the fine
and superfine classes were well
divided. Howard Bull, of Ozen-
kadnook (Vic.), won the reserve
fine-wool championship, and the
reserve superfine-wool award
was won by R. G. Walker.
Another small-holder came to
the fore in the fine-wool ewe
classes when A. S. Lett, of
Williamsvale, Sale (Vic.), won
the championship. Barunah
Plains (top-price at the sales)
won the reserve-championship.
Mr. Schulz showed the super-
fine ewe, and Estate A. Barber,
of Stonleigh, Beaufort (Vic.), the
reserve superfine ewe.
There was nothing like this
competition in the medium and
strong classes.
Champion medium-wool and
strong-wool rams and ewes were
shown by small-holder *A. H.
Lory, of Belbournie, Stawell
(Vic.). Reserve medium-wool
ram and the reserve strong-wool
ewe were shown by C. O. Fair-
bairn, of Banongill, Skipton
(Vic.), and the reserve medium-
wool ewe was an exhibit from
H. O. and C. L. Rogers, of
Jacka Jacka, Tooan, via
Horsham (Vic.). The reserve-
champion strong-wool ram was
shown by R. F. Peake and Son,
of Brae view, Nhill (Vic.).
Corriedales
One of the most impressive
displays was in the Corriedale
section. Here, N. S. Wales and
Victorian breeders made a fine
showing. A. Carroll, of M.
Carroll and Sons, Redbank,
Molong (N.S.W.), took the ram
championship with a beautifully
proportioned sheep. He was
reserve-champion at the Mel-
bourne Sheep Show last year.
Tasmanian breeders Compton
Archer and Son, of Quamby
Plains, won the reserve-
championship, and Victorian
studs shared the other major
awards. R. E. Wettenhall’s
Stanbury stud shared the other
major award, with E. C. L.
Head, of Mundara, Seymour,
taking the reserve. Stanbury
stud was most successful
exhibitor in both ram and ewe
sections.
Polwarths
Polwarth breeders might do
well to revise their terminology.
There’s some danger of outsiders
thinking that “polled” Polwarths
have had their horns removed
mechanically.
At the advent of poll stock —
other than Aberdeen-Angus,
Border Leicesters, and the like
—it was the practice to call them
polled. This word, however, has
been dropped by many societies
as it implies that the animal has
been mechanically dehorned.
Shorthorns, today, without their
horns (by breeding) are Poll
Shorthorns, while their horned
ancestors if they have been
mechanically treated are “de-
horned” —not even “polled.” It
saves confusion. “Poll” and
“polled,” unless used carefully,
can be misleading
That aside, the Polwarths were
good and competition was very
keen. The horned-ram champion
was shown by F. V. M. Youl and
Sons, of Elsdon (Tas.), and the
reserve horned ram by Victorian
N. C. R. Dennis, of Brolga,
Warncoort.
Among the polled rams (one
must use the society’s termi-
nology) the championship was
won by N. B. Thomson, of
Kooraweera, Camperdown (Vic.),
and the reserve by Lawrence and
Son, of Formosa (Tas.).
Champion ewe (no horns
here!) was shown by G. D.
Cumming and Son, Old Jellala-
bad, Darlington (Vic.), and the
reserve by F. E. Jelbart, of Stony
Park East, Jindera (N.S.W.).
British Breeds
K. G. Luke’s Deepfields stud,
Romsey (Vic.), won all the
championships in the Dorset
Horn section. And popular
breeders of stud sheep and
cattle, George Starritt and his
son Ray, of Kelso Park, North-
West Mooroopna (Vic.), cleaned-
up in the Border Leicester sec-
tion. The Kelso stud tvon the
ram championship. The competi-
tion was strong. South Aus-
tralian breeders D. E. Brown and
Son, of Manesty Stud, Maitland,
took the reserve-ram award, and


NNe
8H
4>%i
;J, I
> f
sr4«?
m
SfK
I v^i
tSite&i
wai;
The new
HOLDEN
is gloriously new!
Pictures and words can give you some
idea of the glorious things that have
happened to Holden. But the real thrill
lies in seeing and driving the car itself.
For the new Holden is wonderfully
styled inside and out. It’s longer, lower
—with a new radiator grille, new
hooded headlamps and completely new
lines from bonnet to boot.
And when you sit comfortably back in
one of these new Holdens you’ll be
conscious of many other great new
features. Like the smart new instru-
ment panel, the 40% greater vision, and
the beautiful upholstery in new colours.
You will find more room— z\" more in
front and nearly 3" in the back.
But the new Holden story doesn’t stop
at styling. There’s finer performance.
There’s new handling ease and a new
experience of comfort and safety in a
family car.
Whether you compare today’s car values
by sheer good looks, by performance, by
comfort, by safety or by price you’ll
find a combination of all these values in
the new Holden that you won’t find in
any other car.
It’s open house now at Holden show-
rooms everywhere. The new models
are on display, ready for your inspection
and trial. See them—drive them, and
we think you will agree that Holden is
now more than ever Australia’s best
car buy.
HOLDEN*
Australia’s Own Car
•registered trade mark
*‘A lr Chef’ are the only Car Radios
designed for the new Holden.
•Convenient GMAC hire purchase
merits are available.
UST PRICES FROM £9lO plus sale!
specially
arrange-
; TAX
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
ammmmmmm^l l^i^d^^ i vke^by^Holden^dealersJhromhout^ustraUa^^^^^^^^^
R. R. King and Son, of Warrack-
nabeal (Vic.), the reserve-ewe
prize.
Victorian breeders John Mc-
Intosh and Sons Pty., Ltd., of
Burnwood stud, Merrigum, won
all championships and reserve-
championships in the Ryeland
section ; champion ram was the
Sydney champion this year. The
reserve had a similar honor at
Melbourne Royal in 1954, and
the ewe was by a Melbourne
Royal champion.
The Southdown section was
another one-man win, C. H.
Hawkins, of The Pines, Shep-
parton (Vic.), taking all the
major awards. He was also the
only Shropshire exhibitor.
Romney Marsh were not as
strong in numbers as they might
have been — the section was
much more strongly contested in
Sydney this year—and three of
the major awards went to an
up-and-coming young stud run
by R. L. Forsyth, of Warrawong,
Wallah (Vic.). The reserve-
champion ram in this section was
shown by veteran breeder Ivor
Manton, of Nardoo, Moongeeta
(Vic.).
The small Cheviot section
attracted notice, as it did in
Sydney. This well-shaped breed
with the Border-Leicester-type
head (more correctly, perhaps,
the Border Leicester has a
Cheviot-type head) is gaining in
popularity, but the few studs
in the country and the “scrapie”
embargo on imports from
Britain will restrict growth for
some time to come. Fogarty and
Blackwell, of Dunalister, Oak-
lands Junction (only 16 miles
from Melbourne G.P.O.!),
exhibited the champion Cheviot
ram and the reserve-champion
ewe; R. M. and Mrs. E. K.
M e t h e r a 11, of Leighlands,
Tooradin (Vic.), showed the
other two major prize-winners.
J. A. Christie, of Garvald
Vale, Byaduk (Vic.), was the
only Lincoln exhibitor.
The Ringer.
Experts For Uruguay
Mr. Jeffery, of the South Aus-
tralian Department of Agri-
culture, and two shearers
recently left Sydney by P.A.A.
plane for Montevideo, they hav-
ing accepted the invitation of the
Food and Agriculture Organisa-
tion of the United Nations to
spend over three months in
Uruguay demonstrating the Aus-
tralian methods of shearing and
woolclassing on the farm.
The estancieros have long
been dissatisfied with their
methods of shearing and of
marketing wool. They realise
that their crude system of shear-
ing and classing places them at
considerable disadvantage in the
world markets, and, in
particular, in competition with
Australia and New Zealand.
At present, two peons catch
the sheep and tie their legs, and
shearing is done with the legs
bound together. As a result,
clean shearing is impossible, and
them is much double-cutting.
All the wool, clean and dirty,
goes into the one bale; a sausage-
shaped bag about Bft. long.
Sorting takes place in the
barracas, or wool-stores. The
- difficulty of accurate classing
e under these conditions can well
be realised, and when to these
- crude methods is added the fact
f that so many flocks are com-
1 posed of very mixed sheep it is
- easy to understand why the tops-
1 makers employ a staff to re-sort
2 wool which has been bought
; from the barracas.
t The Uruguayans believe they
1 will get better prices if the wool
s is presented in better condition,
and are anxious to have the Aus-
3 tralian system of handling the
. clip and selling at auction
- adopted. Mr. Jeffery and his
' staff will give demonstrations at
‘ estancim in different parts of
Uruguay'. It will be of interest
i to see the results of their visit.
l There are indications that there
i will be some resistance to
i change, both from the men who
; catch and shear the sheep and
t from the barracas, which find the
i present ways of handling the
, wool very profitable.
Auctions in Montevideo,
: capital of a country which has
over 25-million sheep, could
affect the Australian wool-
market.
W. L. Hindmarsh.
Pasture Findings
“Big Billy”: Trials conducted
in East Gippsland (Vic.) by
F. R. Drake indicate that sub.-
clover is not always satisfactory
in pastures, because it can’t
respond usefully to rains which
fall outside its growing-season.
In wet summers, Drake says,
native-grasses, together with
couch and Indian’s rat’s-tail,
made prolific growth, leaving a
mass of dry, unpalatable residue
in autumn which tends to
smother the young annual
clover-seedlings.
In such seasons, fields in
which white-clover is present
make a much better showing.
Even though dry periods may
occur, experience has shown
that sufficient plants or seed will
remain in well - established
stands of white-clover to allow
the species to re-establish itself
when conditions are favorable.
As a result of these experiments
it has become standard practice
in Gippsland to include a light
seeding of white-clover —from
ylb. to lib. per acre—in all
pasture-seeds mixtures. M.L.
Certified is the strain recom-
mended by the department.
Canary-seed
“F.”: Marketing Division of
the Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock reports
that the outlook for growers of
canary-seed isn’t as bright this
season as it has been for the last
two years.
For the last two seasons prices
have been high because of
partial failure of the crop in
Morocco, the world’s largest
exporter. But the Moroccan
crop will be only slightly below
normal this year, judging by
reports, and sowings have been
abnormally heavy in Turkey
and Holland. Turkey is a major
exporter, but Holland has only
recently come into the world-
market. Importers consider the
Queensland seed inferior.
If the quality can be
improved, Queensland could
have a chance of getting a share
of the market, owing to the 10-
per-cent.-duty advantage over
other exporters in the U.K., the
main importer.
Changing Tractor-
wheels
“Mareen”: An annual job at
cropping-time on this heavy
Wimmera (Vic.) soil is changing
from rubber-tyres to steel-
wheels, and afterwards changing
back again. Here are a few
hints to keep in mind—they’ll
make a heavy and often danger-
ous job easier and safer.
Make sure the lifting-jack is
secure. A 6-by-2 hardwood-
plank, about 3ft. long, under the
jack will make it less likely to
tip over when changing the
wheels on soft ground.
If possible the wheel-nuts
should be backed-off a few turns,
and the tractor driven about, as
this will loosen the wheels on the
axle. But a pinch-bar or wheel-
puller will usually force off the
wheel. In very stubborn cases
I have used an old header-axle
as a sort of battering-ram on the
axle. On most jobs one or
two thumps will loosen the
wheel. A light bar is no good—
light blows seem to have a
riveting effect, and nearly always
spread the axle-end.
When the wheel is loosened
and ready to pull off place a
piece of water-pipe about 10ft.
long in the hub as the wheel
comes off the axle. This makes
the wheel easy to control when
it comes completely off, and
prevents it falling flat on the
ground. If the wheel does fall
down it can be easily raised by
placing the end of piping in the
centre and tying a long rope to
the top. Tie the other end to
the front bumper-bar of a car or
truck, reverse slowly, and the
tractor-wheel is slowly pulled
upright. The idea of taking the
pull from the front of the vehicle
is to be able to watch the opera-
tion more easily.
Before putting on the other
wheel (the new wheel, so to
speak), make sure the axle is
well-greased, so it will slip on
easily. Tractors with a tapered
axle depend on the tightening of
the wheel-nut for proper fit on
the axle. When the wheel-nuts
are hard to screw on it’s often
quicker to let the tractor do the
screwing. This can be done by
raising the wheel on the jack,
then, with the tractor idling in
the right gear and the wheel-nut
firmly held in a wheel-spanner,
the clutch is slowly engaged.
This causes the raised wheel to
turn over, and so tightens the
wheel-nut.
To keep the wheel-centres
from rusting while they are off
the tractor a roll of bagging
that has been well soaked in
waste-oil should be put in the
centre.
One farmer in this district
keeps the rubber-tyres off his
tractor in use by fitting them on
his combine for the winter.
Ram Fertility
“Kantara”: Figures of up to
10 per cent, of infertile rams in
some Australian flocks highlight
need for careful selection when
buying. Epididymitis, the major
cause of the trouble, can be
diagnosed by a vet.
Artificial - insemination from
proven rams would be one
solution of the problem ; a more
practical one is a guarantee of
fertility from the breeder. At
least one Wimmera (Vic.) breeder
guarantees the rams he sells.
Others could do the same.
Farm Hints
“Sundowner”: No more use-
ful autumn and winter feed than
turnips. Besides providing valu-
able grazing for stock, turnips
can help to rehabilitate poor
pasture. Turnips need to be
sown early in the year, using lib.
of seed to the acre, lightly
harrowed in.
“C.A.A.”: If calves are bom
with extra teats these should be
removed ; they serve no useful
purpose. Best time is when the
calf is one to two months old.
After swabbing the teat with
iodine, nip-off quickly with
sharp, sterile scissors, as close to
the udder as possible. Swab the
cut with iodine at intervals for
several weeks to guard against
infection. When heifers grow
older, a rubber-band is the
safest method of dealing with
surplus teats. These will cause
the teat to slough-off within 10
days.
“Ci”: In this very wet year,
watch for fleece-rot and lumpy-
wool. An overhead zinc-sulphate
spray of lib. to 50gals. is recom-
mended for lumpy-wool, and
this spray also helps with fleece-
rot. For smaller flocks, try
knapsack-spraying with lib.
bluestone to 50gals. water.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
dassers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered— in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(5/8/’56)
General rains should continue in a large part of Queens-
land during September, probably with storms, and above
normal in the southern half of the State.
N. S. Wales should also experience general rains in
September, with the heaviest falls occurring in the western
division and the Riverina. However, no really heavy rains
may occur until December.
In Victoria, general rains are likely in September, with
the heaviest falls in the northern division and the east-central
—this may lead to a renewal of flooding.
General rains should be received in the whole of South
Australia during September, although the interior and
Central Australia may get mainly light, patchy rains.
Good rains above average may occur in the Kimberleys,
North Gascoyne and part of the goldfields area, with
moderate general rains in the south-west; poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


TF we had seen some good
horsemanship, we now saw
' some really expert driving. The
horse-paddock was not thickly
timbered; most of it had been
ringbarked years before, and
though a great number of the
dead trees had been converted
into firewood, the long grass con-
cealed numerous stumps and
logs.
Carson skirted these with
uncanny precision, swinging first
one way and then the other, leav-
ing behind him tracks that
looked as if they had been made
by two enormous snakes wriggl-
ing through the grass.
We heard his distant “Hi, hi,
hi there! ” as he swung in behind
the horses and urged them
towards the yard, and we won-
dered how the horses would
react to this novel method of
yarding.
They took it well. One or two
tried to break back, but when
the tilly with its shouting driver
forestalled them they gave in.
With manes flying and tails
streaming out behind them they
galloped for the yards.
Carson was right on the heels
of the last horse, so carried away
with enthusiasm that he had to
slam the brakes on hard at the
last moment to avoid running the
tilly into the yard.
“Cripes, Mr. Carson!” Mick
said, as we put the rails up.
“You’re a bit of all right in that
old tilly.”
“Do you think so, Mick?”
Carson’s face was beaming with
pleasure. “I can still show you
young fellows a thing or two,
eh?”
We caught our horses and left
without further trouble, and
though I tried to persuade
Tommy to stay at home he swore
he was all right. The only com-
plaint came from Mick, who
said he was starving. He
unbuckled his saddle-pouch and
pulled out three rissoles wrapped
in newspaper.
“Me breakfast,” he announced
with a grin.
“First or second?” I asked.
“Oh, first,” he answered cheer-
fully. “I never eat any break-
fast if I know I’ve got a crook
’orse to ride. It’s no good tryin’.
It just won’t go down.”
I said, “I know exactly how
you feel. I don’t suppose you
could spare one rissole, could
you?”
We ate our breakfasts riding
along.
(To be continued next week)
intended to answer the question
which was allegedly shouted
while he was shrieking his indict-
ment: “Why didn’t you kill
him?”
It reassures doubters by stating
that, “despite violations com-
mitted by Stalin, the Soviet
Union was, and remains, a
genuine democratic system with
full power in the hands of the
people.”
The Central Committee seems
to accept the text of the speech,
or the facts contained in it, as
authentic and truthful. While
it feels that “the facts made
public had naturally caused a
feeling of bitterness and deep
regret,” the Soviet people
“realise that the cult of the
individual was indispensable for
the building of Communism, in
which they are playing their full
part.” They are completely frank
about Stalin’s crimes, which,
however, they describe as
“impermissible errors.”
The resolution says that the
background to the historical con-
ditions under which Socialism
was built in the U.S.S.R., as well
as the subjective factors arising
out of Stalin’s character, was
that “from 1917 onwards large
numbers of wreckers were com-
ing into the U.S.S.R., especially
after the development of
Fascism in 1933 and after the
threat of a new war became
greater.” It declares that “in
this situation iron discipline and
vigilance was called for, and this
inevitably had an adverse effect
on democracy.”
The “democracy” in the
U.S.S.R., of course, the world
was being told all the time, was
the model to end all other
democratic models. The resolu-
tion fails to remember that in the
1930’s the Kremlin allowed
Hitler to train his Officer Corps
in the U.S.S.R.
It appears that in the bitter
struggle against Imperialism
“our country had to accept some
limitations of democracy which
were justified by our people’s
struggle.” And it seems further
that while Stalin “at first took
notice of Lenin’s criticism of his
faults,” he presently “came to
believe in his own infallibility,”
and used the incorrect theory
that the class-struggle would
grow sharper with the advance-
ment of the Soviet Union
towards Socialism “to justify
gross violations of Socialist law
and mass repression” ; that he
“created a special status for
security-organs which enjoyed
tremendous confidence because
they rendered undoubted service
to the people in defending their
gains.” Thus:
Serious violations of Soviet law
were committed and mass repressions
carried out, many honest Communists
and non-party people were slandered,
and suffered, although completely
innocent.
Resistance
However, Moscow’s new C.P.
resolution declares that it would
be “wrong to assume that noth-
ing was done to try to halt the
disastrous consequences of
Stalin’s actions.”
There were definite periods of
the war, it says, when Stalin’s
actions were sharply restricted,
when negative consequences of
the lawlessness, arbitrary action,
etc., were substantially reduced.
Members of the Central Com-
mittee, as well as outstanding
military leaders, “took control of
definite sectors of activity in the
rear, took independent decisions,
and by their organisational,
political, economic and military
work, together with local party
and Government organisations,
EMPLOYEES ENTRANCE
secured victory of the Soviet
people in the war.”
And all the while and after-
wards, it seems, gave the wicked
Stalin credit for the whole
business, and failed the Soviet
people and the Communist world
by building him up as a god, the
source of everything, including
world victory over Nazism.
The resolution then asks:
“Why, then, did not these people
come out openly against Stalin
and remove him from leader-
ship?”
“Not possible,” the Central
Committee answers itself.
Why? “Though Stalin was
guilty of many unlawful acts,”
the Soviet Union people “knew
that Stalin as a man was always
acting in defence of the Soviet
Union. Opposition to him under
the circumstances would not
have been understood by the
Soviet people.”
Yet that thousands showed
signs of resisting him is attested
by the graves of myriads
tortured, murdered without trial,
dead of starvation in prison-
camps, including those of at least
8000 higher-ups in Soviet life and
most of the Central Committee of
1935, to which the present
Administration is the happy heir
by reason of their decease.
The resolution says:
It is clear that anyone who in these
circumstances would have come out
against Stalin would have got no
support from the people such
opposition in those circumstances as
being against the cause of building
Socialism and as an extremely
dangerous threat to the unity of the
party and the whole State in condi-
tions of capitalist encirclement.
The main fact brought out by
the Central Committee’s resolu-
tion is one that pins down the
difficulties of the Western mind
in coming to terms with Russian
ethical logic.
The Central Committee is
obviously puzzled to know why
there should be any fuss about
Khrushchov’s spech, and why
anybody thinks it must be incon-
sistent with his report. The
committee is satisfied with the
general aim of Communism
towards its target during Stalin’s
rule. It is pleased that it was
possible to purge the Trotskyites
and the Bukharinites and all the
other spies and agents of the
wicked and blood-drunk
Imperialists. The main tenor of
life and progress in the U.S.S.R.
went according to schedule.
True, the leader got a bit
above himself and became
involved in details which were
not quite nice—like paranoiac
tyranny, torture, individualism,
treachery, injustice, murder,
massacre, neglect of duty to the
danger of the nation. But what
are these? Just “impermissible
errors.”
And (the resolution declares)
it is very wicked of the enemies
of Communism and Socialism
to make the most of Stalin’s
shortcomings (as Comrade
Togliatti wrote) “to divert the
attention of the working-class
from the issues which were
raised at the 20th Congress, and
which were meant to clear the
way for future progress in the
cause of peace and Socialism.”
It is further asserted that “no
cult of the individual can change
the nature of the Socialist State
Our enemies allege that the
cult of Stalin’s personality was
brought about by... .the Soviet
system itself Such slanderous
assertions are refuted by the
entire history of the develop-
ment of the Soviet State.”
In spite of slander, the formula
of collective leadership, the true
essence of Leninism, is claimed
to have corrected any overt
results. Individuals who have
suffered have been apologised to
and, even if dead, “rehabilitated.”
Could anything be more hand-
some?
Marxism - Leninism blooms
again in all its pristine purity
under the hand of that staunch
anti-individualist, Comrade
Khrushchov. When the remain-
ing residue of the 120,000,000
copies of Stalin’s Foundations of
Leninism (which have educated
the world in the past couple of
decades and have been Cona-
munism’s Bible) are exhausted
it will be possible to issue
Khrushchov’s Foundations of
Leninism: The Genuine
Article at Last, which
may sell 220,000,000 copies—if
its author doesn’t have a heart-
attack before it comes out and
gives way to another and even
purer Leninist, who discovers
that Khrushchov was a cross
between Goebbels and Jock
Garden, and that what he spoke
about Comrade Stalin was all
bortsh, the product of a Fascist
mind.
The main Communist parties
of Europe within the past month
have held conferences and
declared themselves well satisfied
with Moscow’s explanations. All
is harmony in the Communist
world.
In the meantime it is to be
hoped that in some country with
a free press and British
democracy some deluded ruler is
not tempted to experiment in the
kind of “impermissible errors”
which the Kremlin and the
Australian Communist Party
treat so lightly when they
happen by the myriad in the
Workers’ Only Fatherland.
It now seems, on the say-so
of a Presidium wholly made up
of close associates of the per-
petrator, that hundreds,
thousands of such happenings
have been hidden in the darkness
in the Kremlin for over 30 years
without impairing in any way
the lustre of the reputation of
the U.S.S.R. as the world’s only
pure - Merino, peace - loving
democracy!
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 395
Across
I—Liberated in frills, flourishes, and
flounces impervious to Cupid.
(5, 4)
s—Moslem5 —Moslem bigot got off with this
handy answer to a criminal
charge. (5)
B—Romance8 —Romance curtailed by the bight
off Taronga before I see a
Christian. (5, 8)
11 — Place to land dry coppers on the
eternal City. (8)
12 — Grandmother disturbed Mr.
Game. (6)
14 —Halt for a slip of wood used in
slating and plastering. (4)
16 —Sideshow character makes Ronald
very good to a Washington
detective. (6-3)
19 — Over-brainy bird is back with a
crowbar. (3, 6)
20 — Try foolishly to duck a beginner.
(4)
23 — Low and high rock the educated
seaman. (6)
24 — How the sailor’s sweetheart
addresses her cove address in
Siberia? (4-4)
27 Guttural had a fellow to your
relative of solemn and final
judgment. (13)
28— Pious. (5)
29 —The start or the finish of the
S.O.S. girls. (3-3-3)
Down
1 — Class colleague in a ceremonious
way. (8)
2 Fellow upset the Queen
nominator. (5)
3 Again let in to look at a book
glove, Edward. (10)
4 Goddess is sound on the
rebound. (4)
6 Revenue reduced father, and New
York isn’t alone. (2, 7)
7 Sick definition of 6-down. (6)
9—Fiddler in Reno. (4)
10 —Chinese slimmer might lose these
in a sling. (6)
13 —Chopin (in Paris) and his parents
(in Warsaw). (5, 5)
15—Crumb upset employ before
Ginger panted. (9)
17 — South Carolina ally backing a
man-eating sea-monster. (6)
18— Sticking business he ripped. (8)
21 — Figure a Siberian river is to yearn.
(6)
22 — Let it stand the test differently.
(4)
25 — Yours Truly contended with the
creeper-covered. (5)
26 — This Archbishop of Canterbury
was destined to lose his head and
double up. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 394


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Labor Policy
It is fortunate that such wide publicity
was given to the Chifley Memorial Lecture
delivered at Melbourne University by
Professor Arndt.
It is most important that the Labor
movement, as distinct from the A.L.P.,
should revise its policy and outlook to
meet modern conditions and thinking
particularly in a country like Australia
with a steadily expanding population and
economy.
The weakness and dissension in the
A.L.P. have their root cause in the fact
that the policy of socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange
can lead only to totalitarianism.
In its first and most constructive years
the A.L.P. was not a Socialist party.
Watson, Fisher and Hughes were hot
Socialists, and the greatest progress by the
A.L.P. in raising the living-standards of
the worker was made before the Socialist
plank was introduced into the party ,
platform in 1921.
As Professor Arndt noted, there is stii!
much constructive work ahead for the
Labor movement's political wing, what-
ever its formation may be when the
present ructions have subsided ; and no
one will deny the need in State and
Federal spheres for the type of strong
Parliamentary Opposition that the A.L.P.
is at present powerless to provide.
Many of the suggestions put forward
by Professor Arndt will be keenly debate 1
both inside and outside the ranks or
Labor. One point he made calls for com-
ment; the statement that an attempt
should be made to work out a tax-
structure which would really make an
impact on “the most scandalous inequal i
ties of this country.”
What is needed to bring greater pro-
perity to all hands is not greater taxation
of income from personal exertion, but a
lessening of that type of taxation which
"Bar that spin! You're making 'em do aerobatics !”
discourages effort in all but the lowest-
income groups.
High tax on rising incomes has done
material damage to Australia. It has
bred tax-dodgers in all groups, from
jobbing carpenters to big public com-
panies; it has retarded primary produc-
tion ; it has helped to cause inflation by
creating “hot” money which is spent on
luxurious trivia or hidden under the
carpet; and it is responsible for the
careless attitude towards needless expen-
diture by many businessmen, epitomised
in the phrase, “We’ll charge it to Sir
Artie.”
There is nothing dangerous about
millionaires. They are dealt with when
death-duties hit their estates, anyway, but
it is time the lesson was learned that men
misguided enough to brave coronary
occlusions, stomach-ulcers, spendthrift
sons and flighty daughters to create wealth
and employment are a blessing to their
country and their fellows —no matter
how much their mental outlook is to be
pitied.
The first role of the Labor movement
should be to see that all industry is pros-
perous and that those in employment
receive their just share of prosperity. At
the same time it should combat the grow-
ing tendency in Australia of some indus-
tries and businesses to emulate State
Socialism by forming trusts, monopolies
and price-rings.
Surely these ate very real and valuable
planks for the Labor platform to replace
the worn-out and rotting plank of
Socialism.-— Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Public Servants
There is more real difference between
public servants and private employees
than “Geep” admits (B. 25/7/*56).
For the private employee, keeping his
job depends upon the business operating
profitably, which means that it must be
run with reasonable efficiency, that the
staff is no greater than is required for
the work undertaken, and that employees
must earn their pay. With all respect to
public servants generally, none of these
salutary conditions applies to the opera-
dons of the public service.
While some Government departments
earn revenue, it is immaterial to them
or to their employees whether they finish
the year with a surplus or a deficit, as
deficiencies are cheerfully made up from
general revenue. This mode of opera-
tion may be inescapable, but the whole
system lends itself to abuse unless tight,
and effective control is kept on Govern-
ment expenditure—and there is far too
much evidence in recent years of over-
budgeting by departments and inadequate
control of spending.
As to whether Government payrolls
are too long and whether public servants
earn their pay, no conclusive evidence is
available one way or the other. But it
is undeniable that in some sections
of the public service the number of
employees has increased in post-war
years far beyond the ratio of population-
growth, and that salaries paid to many
officers performing relatively minor
duties are appreciably above what
private employers can afford to offer for
comparable work and qualifications.
Slacking or idling during working
hours, using the employer’s facilities for
private purposes, and so forth —those
forms of dishonesty are common enough
in private industry as well as in
Government employ in these days of full
employment. But whereas the private
boss has a prompt and effective remedy
against such abuses, it appears from
isolated cases that the public service
enforces “discipline” within its ranks by
demotion with an insignificant and
temporary reduction in pay.
And how many public servants, given
the opportunity, would leave the security
and easy privileges of the service for
the risks and hard-won gains of private
employment?— Ardoyne (Vic.).
„ ,
Bamboo
Bamboo, for its weight, is probably the
strongest and most endurable product in
the plant-world. It is certainly the most
versatile.
World-demand for bamboo is steadily
increasing. Apart from its long-
established importance in the economic
“Over my dead body!"
life of the East, its markets are widening
considerably elsewhere. It has lately
been introduced into papermaking and
laminated products, and in the U.S.A.
there is a brisk unfulfilled market for
straightout bamboo products—-things like
prefab, picket-fences, facings for interior
decoration, and handicraft goods.
The possibilities of bamboo-cultivation
in Australia should not be overlooked.
Bamboo can be used for homes,
bridges, fences, stockyards, guttering,
water-pipes, furniture, basketry, house-
hold utensils, matting, trays, sieves, rakes
and other garden-tools, ladders, tool-
handles, and shipping-crates for pigs and
poultry. Its scrapings are used for
stuffing mattresses and pillows, toughen-
ing plaster and caulking boats; its fibres
go into making cordage dnd sandals and
yield cellulose for paper and rayon.
In their fishing the Chinese use bamboo
for fish-traps, rods, spears, sea-anchors,
floats, fish-baskets, punting-poles, netting-
needles, scaff- or dip-nets, dredges and
net-drying poles.
From the Australian point of view
particularly, certain varieties of bamboo
will tolerate extreme drought, and, for
the most part, bamboo thrives best in
soil of a somewhat inferior fertility.
It has, too, great potentialities as a
soil-stabiliser, while its abundant annual
leaf-fall develops a heavy mulch under
the plants and tends to improve soil.
Significantly, the South Pacific Com-
mission is investigating the possibilities of
introducing bamboo-culture into parts of
the Pacific islands.— Frank Snow
(N.S.W.).
Holiday Resorts
From the end of the war until about
1952 landlords and businesses in holiday-
resorts had a wonderful time. Intending
holiday-makers had to make up their
minds about six months in advance in
order to be sure of accommodation. In
most cases they paid high for inferior
lodgings, and were charged at “holiday-
rates” for everything they purchased.
Rooms were converted into dormitories,
and strangers slept with just enough space
to move between beds and with their
clothes in suitcases beneath them.
Except possibly for three weeks after
Christmas at the most popular resorts,
this. no longer applies. With very few
exceptions, holiday-resorts have had the
common experience of fewer visitors
each successive season since 1952.
Each year more and more people give
up the idea of going away for an annual
holiday, for the simple reason that they
cannot afford it. There are various
reasons, but the principal one appears to
lie in the constant increase of too-easy
hire-purchase business.
These days a person only has to
imagine a need for an appliance and a
telephone-call is all that is needed to have
it installed for “only a few shillings a
week.” The trouble is that those few
shillings for this, that and the other
mount up until the worker’s wages are
mortgaged for years ahead. There just
anything left over for holidays,
Fbe station is accentuated by the
tendency for factories and other works
*° close-down tor Christmas, thereby
f ol *? in § their employees to take their
holidays in that period. This results in
great demand for holiday-accommoda-
tion for about three weeks. Things
brighten for short periods at Easter,
long-weekend holidays and school-
holidays, but there are long months
between when proprietors are chasing the
bank-manager for an overdraft in order
to keep going,
As the situation is shaping now there
will be a great decrease "in holiday
accommodation. It is neither economi-
cal nor practical to build or .keep
premises which will be occupied for only
a few in each year. Already this
year some large residentials have closed
for the winter for the first time in an
endeavor to reduce costs. Many smaller
places are trying hard (o be permanents
at a reduced rate in preference to having
their places empty.
It is an unfortunate angle that,
generally, present owners are not the
ones who were responsible for charging
high rates in the good times —most of
those people sold out and retired.
From the crop of “For Sale” notices
in evidence at holiday-resorts it would
seem that few present owners believe the
situation is likely to improve in the near
future.—-W. E. G. (N.S.W.).
Poker Machines
“Mullum” (B. l/8/’56) says that the
golf-club to which he belongs could not
operate without poker-machines, and
much the same has often been said about
bowling-clubs.
I was honorary secretary of a bowlings
club for five years and did a power of
work, like many others associated with
the club, which functioned without
machines. Moreover, we maintained the
primary object of the organisation—the
game of bowls.
I lately visited S.A., where bowling-
clubs manage without machines, as, I
believe, do golf-clubs in that State. Cer-
tainly the clubhouses and appointments
are not lavish, but they are sufficient.
“Mullum’s” reference to racing and to
raffles conducted by church cricket-clubs
have little bearing on the subject. As an
executive officer of a bowling-club I
know that less than 25 per cent, of
members ,play the machines to any
extent, and that they largely maintain the
club. This is hardly democratic. In
many cases players cannot afford the
pastime, while wealthy members with too
much balance to touch the bandits enjoy
the club’s facilities at a subscription-cost
of about 2s. per week —I’ve heard well-to-
do men chuckle over the cheap sporting
set-up provided for them by others.
It is deplorable that sporting-clubs,
which are supposed to attract the best
men in the community, now seem to owe
their existence to gambling. Yet I’m sure
they could survive—as they do in S.A. ; —
if poker-machines were abolished.
As for the proposed tax on the
machines, members can be sure that the
impost will not be relaxed in future.
In fact, as Governments come and go,
the revenue could quite easily be diverted
to other channels than the one at present
nominated. Clubs —bowling, golf, ex-
servicemen’s and others —have now
handed to the povrers-that-be yet another
taxing-medium.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).


REMEMBER SEPTEMBER 2nd
S' .
V.' V. ' *
>■ v
4
BSRS
3HHR SI
-
> < |
■MI
m
lisi
' * V
-
5 ■
11
Hm
I;
,:: J
V;v::, >
s?
*
ffii—
■ ;:
s«
11
81
Mm
3
v-v.
I £p
Ig*
Blft 5/ ’ : s ■' ; i
►
■'» V
FATHER *S DA Y
GIFT SUGGESTION!
1
n
A JgliF wM wM%k
If your dad’s the practical type,
he’ll be thrilled with a boxed set-
of-four Titan chisels on His Day.
, nr--? • ' -*?•<§
Y our | ■HI
\he expert
Titan.
er will tell yoi
tradesmen insist
TITAN SETS OF FOUR
FULLY FORGED
FIRMER
CHISELS.
44'3
CAPITAL CITIES
Slightly more in country
ALSO AVAILABLE SINGLY
TITAN
Quality Chisels
• • . They have the edge!
THE TITAN MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.
